RULE BOOK

CONTENTS
01. INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
02. COMPONENTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
03. BACKGROUND. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
04. PREPARATIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
05. SEQUENCE OF PLAY AND GAME PLAY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
06. THE GAME ROUND IN DETAIL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
07. END OF GAME AND FINAL SCORING. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
08. SEVEN FEDERAL ELECTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
01 INTRODUCTION
In Die Macher the players fight for political power in Germany. As 
party rulers they organize the election campaigns of one of five 
German parties (CDU/CSU, FDP, Bündnis 90/Die Grünen, SPD, Die 
Linke) in several federal state elections.
To win elections a player has to adjust their party program according 
to popular opinions, organize party rallies, influence the media, and 
use the politicians of their shadow cabinet successfully.
Each election campaign is expensive, therefore the parties need 
money. For that reason, donations come in handy from time to time.
Die Macher is a varied and exciting game that advances 3 to 5 players 
through four German federal state elections. For players who want to 
dive even deeper into the election campaigns, there is an expanded 
game which covers seven elections included as well.
Die Macher was released for the first time in 1986 and quickly gained 
a legendary reputation. It is the third published game by Karl-Heinz 
Schmiel.
This new edition has been extensively updated by the designer.
02 COMPONENTS
Each copy of Die Macher contains:
• 4 Federal state boards
• 1 Media/Party base board
• 1 Party program board
• 1 Popular opinion board
• 1 Poll board
• 1 Marker board
• 56 Party program cards (four cards each of 
 and of 
 for seven 
topics)
• 42 Popular opinion cards (three cards each of 
 and of 
 for 
seven topics)
A game by Karl-Heinz Schmiel
for 3 to 5 players
• 40 Shadow cabinet politician cards (eight cards each for five parties)
• 15 Donation cards (three cards each for five parties)
• 10 Poll cards
• 16 Federal state cards
• 5 Party markers (one each for five parties)
• 4 Double markers
• 2 Ballot box markers
• 45 Tracking markers (flat wooden square markers, nine each for five 
parties; five of these each marked with the number “50”)
• 25 Media markers (octagonal wooden pieces, five each for five parties)
• 100 Party rally cubes (small wooden cubes, 20 each for five parties)
• Playing money (150 bills, 50x “1,000 €”, 30x “2,000 €”, 30x “5,000 €”, 
25x “10,000 €”, 15x “20,000 €”)
• 1 Scoring pad
• 10 Player aids (five each in English and German)
• 2 Rule books (one each in English and German)
The Federal State Boards and the 
Federal State Cards
Each federal state board has a spot to place a federal state card A , 
a ballot box marker B and four popular opinion cards C. 
Each party has its own section to denote its trend (the trend scale) and 
a number of party rally spots to place the party rallies they organize 
there D. The players mark the votes of their parties on the votes track 
E. They place media markers on media spots F to gain influence on 
the popular opinions.
F

The 16 federal state cards 
determine which federal 
states hold elections 
in the game G. (Note 
that “election” is used as 
synonym to “federal state 
election” throughout 
these rules. ) The 8 “smaller” federal states have a  H in their upper 
right corner. Moreover, all cards show the maximum number of 
victory points a player may get at the end of an election I and list all 
victory points according to the number of gathered votes J.
The Media/Party Base Board
At the lower part of this board the players mark the size of their party 
base (from now on this is the party base scale) A. After successful 
election results the players may put a media marker on the media 
presence spots B. 
The three leftmost spots (with black numbers) are only used in a game 
of seven elections. The four spots on the right (with white numbers) 
are used in both the short game (four elections) and the long game 
(seven elections).
The Party Program Board and the 
Party Program Cards
The party program cards (from now on just called party programs) 
depict the seven most important political topics (education, 
digitization, genetic engineering, national security, welfare 
state, environment, traffic) A , each with an approving 
 and 
a disapproving 
 attitude B towards the topic.
The party program board holds the draw and discard stacks of the 
party programs C plus – depending on the number of players – 
a display of face-up party programs D. The spaces with 
 is used 
for three to five players, the spaces with 
 are used for four and 
five players, and the space with 
 only for five players.
Education
Genetic 
Engineering
Environment
Traffic
Welfare 
State
Digitization
National 
Security
The Popular Opinions Board and 
the Popular Opinion Cards
The popular opinion cards (from now on just called popular opinions) 
each show one of the seven topics A and an approving 
 or 
a refusing 
 attitude B towards the topic.
Education
Genetic 
Engineering
Environment
Traffic
Welfare 
State
Digitization
National 
Security
The popular opinions board holds the draw and discard stacks of the 
popular opinions C , plus a display of one face-up card each with an 
approving 
 and a disapproving 
 card for each of the seven topics D.
I
The Poll Board and the 
Poll Cards
The front side of a poll card shows the trend 
changes for the five parties A The back side 
depicts the party whose trend is going to be 
raised by two spaces on the trend scale B.

The poll board holds the draw and discard stacks of the poll cards C.
The Marker Board, the Double 
Markers, the Party Markers, and 
the Ballot Box Markers
The marker board A holds the double markers B that are used to 
mark key popular opinions and the stack of party markers C that are 
used to show the start player of a round (the start player spot).
The ballot box markers D mark the federal state that holds an 
election in the current round.
The Shadow Cabinet Politician 
Cards and the Donation Cards
During the game, each 
player may use politicians 
from their “shadow 
cabinet” A to influence 
election outcomes. In 
a four election game, each 
player has access to five 
politicians with the 
 icon B. If players play 
a seven election game, 
they have all eight 
politicians at their disposal.
Each player may take up 
to three donations C to 
boost their party finances.
The Playing Money and the 
Scoring Pad
Players pay with the Euro A in the game. During the game the 
players may keep their money secret from the other players (the 
backside of the bills is “neutral”) B.
The players note their chosen start deployment on the front side of 
the scoring sheet C. In addition, the players write down their offer 
to become start player at the beginning of each round there D. The 
victory points of all parties are noted on the backside of the scoring 
sheet E.
The Wooden Components
Each player takes the following wooden components in one of the 
five party colors:
• Nine tracking markers A. Two of them are used to 
mark the trend of a party on the trend scale and the 
number of votes on the votes track of each of the four 
federal state boards. The last one is used to mark the 
size of the party base on the party base scale. Five of 
the markers show a “50” (so that players are able to 
mark 50+ values of votes or party base size).
• The media markers B are used to mark the players' 
influence on the media in the federal states.
• The party rally cubes C that mark the party rallies of 
the players on the federal state boards.
The Player Aids
Each player receives a player aid card. It 
lists the sequence of play of a game round 
and how to execute a federal state election. 
Die Macher contains player aids in English 
and German.
03 BACKGROUND
In Die Macher the players try to successfully 
guide their party through four federal state elections. The trend 
of their party has to be positive and they have to bring their party 
program in line with the often conflicting popular opinions to be 
successful.
If the players have enough party rallies at the end of a game turn 
in a federal state, they may transform them into votes. When 
a federal state election is conducted, the players get victory points 
based on the number of votes for their party. The number of victo-
ry points possible varies according to the size of the federal state.
In addition to victory points from elections the players score 
points at the end of the game for media presence, their party base 
size and leftover money.
The following chapters will explain all this.

EXAMPLE FOR 4 PLAYERS
F
I
04 SETUP
A The players sort the components and, if not playing a seven 
election game return these items back into the game box:
• 1 ballot box marker 1 ;
• per player the three shadow cabinet politician cards without 
icon 2 ;
• per player 1 media marker 3.
These components are only needed in a game of seven elections.

B The players put together the four federal state boards to form one 
game board. In addition, they place the five other boards and the 
money (sorted by denomination) next to the game board.
C One player sorts the federal state cards into “large” and “small” 
(marked with a  states and shuffles both stacks separately. 
Afterwards, they draw two cards from each stack, shuffles them 
again and places them, one each, on the respective spots on the 
four federal state boards. Then the ballot box marker is put on the 
state board of the smallest of the four states (the one with the 
lowest number of victory points in bold in the top center of the 
card). This is the state that holds an election at the end of the first 
round.
D One player places one popular opinion each 
 and 
for each of the 
seven topics onto the popular opinions board. Then they shuffle the 
remaining cards and place the card stack, face down, on the 
designated spot.
The player draws four popular opinions per federal state and places 
them, face down, on the designated spots of the four federal state 
boards. Afterwards they turn over these cards:
• in the smallest state (the one with the ballot box marker) all four 
cards;
• in the second state in clockwise order three cards;
• in the third state two cards;
• in the fourth state one card.
While turning over popular opinion cards the player has to check that 
no turned over cards in that federal state have the same topic (neither 
approving 
 nor disapproving .
 If a card with an already present topic 
is turned over, it must immediately be placed on the discard stack and 
a new card is taken and turned over from the draw stack.
• they put one each of the five tracking markers, number “50” face 
down, at the “0” space of the votes track on each of the four state 
boards .
 The fifth marker is placed, number “50” face down, 
at 10 points of the party base scale (on the media/party base 
board);
• they place one each of their other four tracking markers at the 
“0” trend space on the trend scale of their party on each federal 
state board;
• they put the four media markers and the 20 party rally cubes in 
front of themselves as their personal supply.
• Moreover, each player takes 30,000 € from the bank.
H Each player draws seven cards from the party program draw stack 
and takes them in their hands. Simultaneously, the players now 
select one of these cards and place them face down in front of 
them. The other cards are given to the neighbor on the left side. 
This is repeated three times till each player has four face down 
cards in front of them and handed over the other three cards.
Now each player takes their seven cards and selects five cards from 
them. They are placed face down on the table and form the party 
program. When all players have selected their cards, they turn over 
their party programs.
Each player has to choose five different topics! Therefore it is 
impossible to select a topic twice or to use opposite attitudes for 
a given topic.
Exception: If a player does not have enough different cards after 
the party program draft, they place as many different topics as 
possible face down on the table. Only now they show double cards 
or opposite attitudes and discard them. Then, they draw new cards 
from the draw stack. From these they select the missing cards.
Now each player keeps one card in hand, the other is discarded to 
the discard stack of party programs.
Example: Marion is only able to place four topics as party programs 
A because she has 
-education and 
-welfare state twice and 
genetic engineering with opposite attitudes. She discards these 
three cards B and draws three new ones from the draw stack. From 
these cards she selects 
-traffic as fifth party program, discards 
-genetic engineering and keeps 
-education in hand C .
Example: Marion has already 
turned over 
-education and 
-traffic in Niedersachsen. Now 
she turns over another 
-education. This card is 
discarded and the top card from 
the draw stack is turned over 
instead A . This is 
-welfare 
state. Marion puts this card, face 
up, next to the other popular 
opinions B .
E One player shuffles the 10 poll cards and lets another player cut 
the deck. Then they place the stack, face down, onto the poll board.
F One player shuffles all party program cards and places this stack, 
face down, onto the party program board. Then, according to the 
number of players, they turn over a number of cards and place 
them face up on the designated spots of the board as a display.
G Each player chooses a party and takes the following components in 
the party color:
• they place the five shadow cabinet politician cards 
 and the 
three donation cards face down in front of them;

05 SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
AND GAME PLAY
A game of Die Macher is played over four game rounds. At the end of 
each round one of the federal states holds an election.
In each of these game rounds the players will run through three 
segments, consisting of a total of nine phases. The sequence is 
always:
PREPARATIONS:
1 	 Determine the Start Player
2 	 Changes to the Party Programs
DEPLOYMENT:
3 Secure Media Influence 
4 Organize Party Rallies
5 Send Shadow Cabinet
CHANGES:
6 Actions of the Shadow Cabinet
7 Media Influence 
8 Auctioning off of Polls
9 Evaluation of Votes & Federal State Election
Phase 9 Evaluation of Votes & Federal State Election lasts longest. 
Here the players implement the following steps together:
a Relocate Votes
b Determine Effects of the Federal State Election
c Pay Money (not in the 4th game round)
d Prepare for the next Game Round (not in the 4th game round)
During the game and final scoring the players get victory points for 
different achievements:
• for votes gained in the four federal state elections;
• for winning a federal state election;
• for media markers on the media presence spots of the media/party 
base board;
• for the size of their party base;
• for leftover money.
After four federal state elections the player with the most victory 
points is termed the best party leader and wins Die Macher.
06 THE GAME ROUND 
IN DETAIL
PREPARATIONS
1 DETERMINE THE START PLAYER 
The players bid with money to become start player.
All players note their bid of money secretly and simultaneously on the 
front side of their scoring sheet; In the first round they write it in the first 
box from the top (in the lower right corner of the scoring sheet), etc.
Players may also bid zero Euro, but they may never bid more money than 
they own. In case that a player nevertheless bids more money than they are 
able to pay, refer to page 11, Phase 8 Auctioning off Polls to learn about 
the consequences for that player as the same rules apply in this instance.
I One player places the four double markers at their designated 
spots on the marker board.
Afterwards, they shuffle the party markers and place the stack, 
face up, on the start player spot of the board. The top marker is the 
preliminary start player.
J Each player takes a sheet of the scoring pad (you will need a pen, none 
are provided).
Now they choose one of the five blocks on the front side of their sheet 
as personal start position. Each player writes the name, abbreviated, 
of one of the four federal states for which they intend to adjust the 
start conditions, in each of the five spots of a block. If a symbol is in the 
block several times, the player has to record different states each time!
After all players have done this, they adjust the chosen start conditions 
for the four federal states in the following way:
The player places three party rally cubes from their 
personal supply on their party rally spots of the federal 
state.
The player raises their tracking marker on their trend 
scale of the federal state by one space.
The player places a media marker on one of the media 
spots of the federal state.
The player raises their tracking marker by 6 votes on 
the votes track of the federal state.
Example: Marion would like to begin 
strongly in the first two federal states 
(Brandenburg and Niedersachsen) and 
selects the third block as start position A . 
She writes in the two spots for party rallies 
and for the trend NDS (for Niedersachsen) 
and BB (for Brandenburg) twice and NDS 
again for 6 votes.
When all players have made their selections, 
they turn over their sheet and adjust their start condiditons. Marion 
places three party rallies each at the spots B , raises the trend of her 
party by one space each to “+2” C and raises the number of votes 
in Niedersachsen to six D .
BB
BB
Now Die Macher may begin!

Note: Das The fifth box is only used in a game of seven elections.
After each player has marked their bid, they reveal it simultaneously. The 
player with the highest bid pays the amount to the bank and becomes 
start player. As a reminder they place their party marker on top of the party 
marker stack on the marker board.
In case of a tie for the highest bidder, the players participating in the tie 
determine the start player by bidding once again openly. Beginning with 
the player to the right of the previous start player (or the player closest to 
the start player), each participating player may raise their bid once or pass.
In case all players pass, the player that passes last becomes the start 
player.
3.000
3.000
Marion
Angie
Example: Marion and Angie bid 3,000 Euro in the first round and 
mark their bid on the first box on their score sheet A . The other 
players marked lower amounts, so that Marion and Angie have 
to determine the start player among themselves. Marion is the 
preliminary start player and she raises her bid to 4,000 Euro. Angie 
passes, thus Marion pays her bid to 
the bank and becomes start player B . 
As a reminder she places her SPD 
marker on top of the stack on the 
marker board C .
2 CHANGES TO THE PARTY PROGRAMS 
The players may change their party program in order to get it in line with 
the popular opinions reigning in the federal states.
each player may carry out the following:
• either they take one party program card from the draw stack, then one 
face-up card from the display to their hand,
or they discard all the cards from the display to the discard stack, draw 
new cards from the draw stack- and place them face up in the display. 
Then they take 1-face-up card from those to their hand.
• Afterwards they may swap up to two party programs in front of them 
with their hand. Then they must discard cards from their hand until they 
have only 1 card left.
Each time before the next player carries out their changes to their 
program, each empty spot on the display is refilled with one party 
program from the top of the draw stack.
As soon as the party program draw stack runs empty, the start player 
shuffles the discard stack and places it face down as the new draw stack.
After each player has carried out their change of the party program, this 
phase ends.
Example: Marion intends to align her party program better with 
popular opinions in Niedersachsen A . She takes a face-down 
card from the party program stack and then the open 
-traffic 
party program to her hand B . 
She changes her party program, in 
removing her 
-traffic, and instead 
placing the 
-traffic card, so that 
now 3 of her party programs match 
popular opinions of Niedersachsen 
C . She keeps the 
-environment 
party program in hand and discards 
her other two hand cards to the 
discard stack of party programs D .

4 ORGANIZE PARTY RALLIES 
The players organize party rallies in the federal states to transform 
them later into votes.
Beginning with the start player and continuing in a clockwise 
direction, each player may buy party rallies once.
The player decides whether they want to buy rallies in one single 
federal state or multiple ones. They must pay the costs for each federal 
state separately, depending on the number of newly placed party 
rallies:
Number of newly 
placed party rallies in 
a federal state
Costs
1. 000 €
2. 000 €
3. 000 €
5. 000 €
Number of newly 
placed party rallies in 
a federal state
Costs
7. 000 €
10. 000 €
15. 000 €
20. 000 €
The player pays the costs to the bank and places the corresponding 
number of party rally cubes from their personal supply to the party 
rally spots in their color of the chosen federal state. Each federal state 
may have a maximum of 8 concurrent party rallies per party. If each 
spot has been taken, the player must transform party rallies into votes 
at the end of the round, before they may buy new party rallies in 
subsequent rounds in that state.
Example: Marion buys three party rallies in Niedersachsen A 
and two party rallies in Brandenburg B . She pays 5,000 Euro 
altogether to the bank (3,000 + 2,000) and places the wooden 
cubes on the corresponding spots of both federal states. Marion 
now has 8 party rallies in Niedersachsen, so she must transform 
some of them at the end of the round into votes, in order to buy 
new party rallies there in the subsequent round.
DEPLOYMENT
3 SECURE MEDIA INFLUENCE 
The players try to steer the local media in the federal states. They need to have 
the majority of media markers in a federal state in order to influence popular 
opinion later on.
Beginning with the start player and continuing in a clockwise 
direction, each player is allowed to buy one media marker at a time. 
To do so the player pays 5,000 Euro to the bank and places one media 
marker on an empty media spot of one federal state.
Instead of buying a media marker a player may pass. If it is their turn 
again, because at least one player has bought a media marker, the 
player may choose again either to buy a media marker or to pass. 
(Players may buy multiple media markers during a single secure 
media influence phase but only one at a time!)
On each federal state board there are 5 media spots which may be 
occupied by any player's media markers. If each spot is occupied by 
any player's media marker, no player may place a media marker in 
that federal state for now.
This phase ends, if each player has passed subsequently.
Example: Marion buys a media marker for 5,000 Euro and places 
it on a media spot of the Niedersachsen board A . Angie also wants 
to influence the media in Niedersachsen and also buys a media 
marker that she places in Niedersachsen B . Now each media spot 
in Niedersachsen is occupied, thus no player may place a media 
marker there for now.

CHANGES
6 ACTIONS OF THE SHADOW CABINET 
The players carry out the actions of their shadow cabinet politicians to 
influence the elections in the federal state they are placed next to.
this round and continuing in a clockwise direction, players carry out the 
following:
• First the players reveal all politicians placed next to this federal 
state. Then each player must pay the costs of their politician to the 
bank. If a player is not able to pay the cost of a politician or chooses 
not to pay it, that politician is immediately removed from the game 
and returned to the box without carrying out its action.
• Then players carry out any actions of their politicians in the order that 
they have been placed. A player may carry out the main action shown 
in the top part of their politician and any one of the secondary actions 
listed below.
Exception: Some actions are marked with an . Each of these marked 
actions only may be carried out once among all players in a given federal 
state. As soon as any one player has carried out this action in a given 
federal state, no player may carry out the same action in that same 
federal state. This means that it is possible that a player may not use the 
main action of their politician or that they are forced to carry out another 
secondary action instead of their favored one.
Reminder: All politicians that are placed next to a federal state are 
removed from the game at the end of this phase.
The players have access to the following five politicians:
Backbencher: When revealed the owning player must 
pay 3,000 Euro to the bank.
Main Action:
from a face-up popular opinion. Only one single double 
marker may be in a given federal state at any time! 
A popular opinion with a double marker is safe from 
being shifted by the media and counts double during the transformation 
into votes.
 The player raises their marker on the votes track by 3 votes.
Vice-Chancellor: When revealed the owning player 
scale by 1 space.
from a face-up popular opinion. Only one single double marker 
may be in a given federal state at any time! A popular opinion with 
a double marker is safe from being shifted by the media and counts 
double during the transformation into votes.
 The player changes their party program – see page 8 
( 2 Changes to the party programs).
Spokesperson: When revealed the owning player 
to remove their media marker from a media spot. If 
they have at least one media marker in their reserve 
themselves, they may place it without further costs 
instead of the removed one.
 The player raises their marker on the votes track by 5 votes.
Secretary: When revealed the owning player must 
pay 8,000 Euro to the bank.
5 SEND SHADOW CABINET 
The players send politicians of their shadow cabinet to the federal 
states to influence the outcome of the election in favor of their party.
each player may place shadow cabinet politician cards (in short: 
politicians) next to federal states. Each player chooses up to one politician 
per federal state and places it face down next to the federal state, in such 
a way that all placed politicians from all players are aligned in a row.
There are no initial costs for placing politicians. Note, that there are 
costs for carrying out their respective action in the next phase.
Each player has five politicians they may use over the course of 
a game. Each of them is single use. After the action of a politician has 
been carried out in the next phase, it is removed from the game and 
returned to the game box.
Example: Marion chooses to place a politician next to Niedersachsen 
A . She elects to retain her other politicians for now. Angie then 
places one politician of her shadow cabinet next to Brandenburg and 
one next to Niedersachsen B .

Parliamentary leader: When revealed the owning 
player must pay 15,000 Euro to the bank.
 The player decreases the marker on the trend 
scale of each other player by 1 space.
 The player changes their party program – see 
page 8 ( 2 Changes to the party programs).
Example: In this round Brandenburg holds an election, thus our 
players begin there. Angie reveals her Secretary there and pays 
8,000 Euro to the bank A . As main action she raises her marker 
on the votes track by 8 votes. As secondary action she then takes 
the topmost poll card from the stack. After inspecting the poll, she 
chooses to publish it and thus carries it out: She raises her marker 
on the trend scale by 1 space and lowers the trending marker of the 
SPD by 1 point according to the poll card. The Green party doesn't 
participate in this play through, thus Angie ignores their negative 
polling result. B .
In a clockwise direction Niedersachsen is next. Marion reveals her 
Backbencher there and pays 3,000 Euro to the bank, whereas Angie 
reveals her Vice-Chancellor there and pays 5,000 Euro C . Marion 
places her double marker as a main action on the 
-welfare state 
and raises the marker of her party on the trend scale by 1 space D . 
Angie also raises her marker on the trend scale as a main action E
. As the action concerning the double marker may only be carried 
out once in Niedersachsen, she has to carry out the other secondary 
action of her Vice-Chancellor and thus she changes her party 
program.
7 MEDIA INFLUENCE 
Those players that influence the media in federal states, may shift the 
popular opinion into the direction of their party program.
A player counts as influencing the media, if they own more media 
markers in a federal state than any other player. In case of a tie, no 
player counts as influencing the media.
this round and continuing in a clockwise direction, each player that 
influences the media in a given federal state may shift one popular 
opinion there: Thus they remove one popular opinion from that 
federal state to the discard stack and then refill the empty spot with 
one face-up popular opinion from the display on the popular opinion 
board. They may never refill the empty spot with a popular opinion 
that has the same topic as those already present there (neither 
approving nor disapproving). If a wanted popular opinion is missing 
on the display, a player must choose another popular opinion. The 
empty spots on the display are never refilled during the game.
Exception: Whenever a popular opinion is marked by a double 
marker, this popular opinion is out of question and may not be 
shifted. The player then must choose another popular opinion to be 
exchanged.
Instead of changing a popular opinion a player may also choose to 
pass and thus forfeit their media influence in this phase.
Example: Angie influences the media in Niedersachsen. 
-welfare state is marked with a double marker, so she may not 
touch it. Instead Angie discards 
-traffic A and replaces it with 
-environment from the face-up display of popular opinions B .
8 AUCTIONING OFF OF POLLS 
The players may purchase auction polls in each federal state, and thus 
either change the trends of parties or raise their own party base.
this round and continuing in a clockwise direction, for each federal 
state the topmost poll card from the stack is auctioned off.
The party whose trend marker is raised by 2 spaces on the trend scale 
is marked on the back of each poll card.
After a few games of Die Macher, this becomes 
a tactical element, as players will draw conclusions 
off of the poll cards that have already been revealed 
and which ones still remain in the stack.
The player with the most votes in this federal state 
is the auctioneer. If there is a tie in votes, the start 
player (or the player closest to the start player) is 
the auctioneer.
Beginning with the player to the left of the start player and then 
continuing once in a clockwise direction, each player may bid or pass. 
If a player bids they must bid higher than the current highest bid. The 
auctioneer has the final bid. The lowest bid to start with is zero. No 
player may bid more money than they have.
If at any time a player bids more money than they own and is caught 
doing so, they must pay all their money to the bank and lower their 
party base size by 10 points as a penalty. The player is then excluded 
from all further auctions in this phase. The remaining players must 
restart the auction from the beginning and then continue with any 
further auctions in a likewise way.

9 EVALUATION OF VOTES & FEDERAL STATE ELECTION 
This phase lasts longest, so it is split into the following steps that the 
players carry out together.
a Relocate votes
The players may transform their party rallies into votes in their federal 
state. One of the federal states holds its election.
In the reverse direction, beginning with the federal state that holds its 
federal election last, and continuing in a counter-clockwise direction, 
players may transform their party rallies into votes. Beginning with 
the start player in each federal state and continuing in a clockwise 
direction, each player may transform their rallies into votes once.
Federal states not holding an election this round: If a player 
wants to transform party rallies into votes in such a state, they must 
transform at least 4 party rallies into votes. If they are not able 
or willing to do so, they must pass and thus forfeit the option to 
transform rallies into votes in this federal state for now.
Current federal state election: In this federal state each player must 
transform all their party rallies into votes. For simplicity players may 
do so in the direction indicated by the order of the parties on the 
federal state board, either starting with the FDP or with the Linke.
Apply the aforementioned formula. During the election a player 
transforms rallies into votes if they have at least 1 party rally there; as 
a positive trend without a party rally still gathers no votes!
If the sum of party rallies and the trend is zero or negative (possible 
with 3 or less rallies and a trend of -2 or -3), the player calculates with 
a result of +1 instead.
The highest bidder pays their bid to the bank and takes the topmost poll 
card from the stack. They then carry out one of the following two options:
• Not publish the poll and therefore raise their party base marker by 
3 points;
• or publish the poll. This option may only be chosen, if the trend 
of the player's party is raised by the poll card. If so, the player 
raises the marker on their trend scale in this state by the number 
of spaces indicated on the card and they lower the markers of the 
other parties on their trend scales in this state as shown on the card. 
Ignore the changes to parties that are not present in the game.
Exception: The party of the player that influences the media in this 
federal state, is never lowered by a poll card!
Example: Nicole bids 4,000 Euro for the topmost poll card, as the 
back of the card indicates that the trend of her CDU is raised by 2 
spaces on this poll. As she wins the bid, she pays the 4,000 Euro 
to the bank and takes the card A . Nicole decides to publish the 
poll, therefore she raises the marker of her CDU on the trend scale 
by 2 spaces. Furthermore, she lowers the marker of the FDP by 2 
spaces B . She does not lower the marker of the Linke, as the Linke 
influences the media B .
Party rallies are transformed into votes by using this formula:
(Party rallies + trend) x matching topics = votes
First, the player adds their number of party rallies in this federal state 
to the current trend of their party there.
Then the player compares the topics and attitudes of their party 
program with those of the popular opinions in this federal state. Each 
matching topic with a matching attitude counts +1, each matching 
topic with an opposite attitude counts -1, all others count 0. If there 
is a double marker on a topic, that topic counts double in either 
direction. This means it counts +2 if it matches and -2 if it is opposite. 
If the party program matches the popular opinion so badly that the 
sum is zero or even negative, the sum is considered to be +1.
The player multiplies both figures, and then raises their marker on 
the votes track by the result. Then they remove the transformed party 
rallies and place them back into their personal supply.
Example: Marion wants to capitalize on the very good situation 
of her SPD in Niedersachsen and thus transforms all her eight 
party rallies there into votes. Due to her trend of “+4”, she has the 
maximum sum of +12 (8 + 4) A . Her party program matches 
popular opinion in Niedersachsen in 2 topics and thanks to the 
double marker on 
-welfare state she reaches a figure of +3 for 
matching topics B .So she raises her marker on the votes track 
by 36 votes total (12 x 3 = 36 votes) and returns all of her 8 party 
rallies back to her personal supply C .

After players have transformed all their votes, they determine the 
effects of the election in the next step.
Example: Brandenburg holds its federal state election, so that all 
party rallies there will be transformed into votes.
A The FDP seemingly has laid their focus on other federal states 
and because of their very bad trend there and opposite party 
program, they only get 1 further vote thus having 3 votes in total.
B The CDU receives for her party rallies 8 votes and thus has a total 
of 23 votes.
C The SPD adds 21 votes and becomes second power in gathering 
a total of 34 votes.
D The Linke matched the mood of voters with their party program 
perfectly. The party adds 20 votes and wins the election with a total 
of 52 votes.
b Determine Effects of the Federal State Election
The players now receive victory points for their votes and determine 
the winner of the election.
Each player marks the victory points of all parties on the back of their 
scoring sheet.
= (6 + -2) x 2 = 4 x 2 = 8
= (1 + -3) x -2 = 1 x 1 = 1
= (4 + 0) x 5 = 4 x 5 = 20
= (5 + 2) x 3 = 7 x 3 = 21
The federal state election grants the following victory points:
Victory points for votes: The federal state card shows the 
number of victory points a player receives for their number 
of votes in that state. Votes in a larger federal state are worth 
more victory points, as these states have a higher influence 
in German politics.
 Victory points for winning the election and 
 influencing 
the media: The players now determine the winner of the election.
• If only one single party reaches a total of 50+ votes:
 Winner of the election: This party wins the election and 
receives 12 victory points that each player marks down for this 
party on the back of their scoring sheet.
 Influencing the media: If the winner of the election has 
at least 1 media marker in this federal state, they move one 
They determi ne the media presence spot according to the 
current election, so if this is the first election they place it 
on the spot with a “10” (the first spot on the left with white 
numbers). Players mark these victory points only at the end of 
the game!
• If two or more parties reach a total of 50+ votes:
 Winner of the election: Each of these parties receives 10 
victory points immediately. The party with the most votes is 
considered to be the winner of the election. In case of a tie for 
most votes each party participating is considered to be the winner.
 Influencing the media: If the winner of the election has 
at least 1 media marker in this federal state, they move one 
They determine the media presence spot according to the 
current election. Players mark these victory points only at the 
end of the game!
• If the strongest party has less than 50 votes, they must build 
a coalition:
• The strongest party looks for a coalition partner. In case of a tie for 
the strongest party, the start player (or the player closest to the 
start player) takes precedence.
When looking for coalition partners, players must adhere to the 
following rules:
• The coalition consists of two parties. A coalition of three parties 
is not allowed.
• The coalition must reach at least 50+ votes together, otherwise 
no coalition is possible.
• The order in which parties become candidates for a coalition 
is determined by the number of matching party program 
topics and attitudes between the parties. In case of a tie the 
start player (or the player closest to the start player) takes 
precedence.
 Winner of the election: Both partners in the coalition receive 
7 victory points each immediately.
 Influencing the media: If the coalition partners have at 
least 1 media marker in this federal state, they each move one 
They determine the media presence spot according to the 
current election. Players mark these victory points only at the 
end of the game!
• No coalition possible, 
 Winner of the election: The strongest 
party receives 5 victory points immediately.

c Pay money (not in the 4th Game Round!)
The players receive more state money and donations to further finance 
their political work.
each player takes the following amount of money from the bank:
• Federal state election: The player takes 1,000 Euro for each victory 
point scored during the election, but not for the victory points brought 
by winning the election;
• Party base: The player takes 1,000 Euro for each point of their party 
base size;
• Donation: Each player then decides whether to accept a party donation 
or reject it. First each player chooses one of their 3 donation cards and 
then chooses one of these two options:
• They accept the donation on the card and take the corresponding 
amount of euros from the bank (10,000, 20,000 or 30,000 Euro). As 
a tradeoff, they then must lower their party base size on the party base 
scale by 1, 2 or 3 points, respectively.
• They reject the donation. In this case the party base is fostered. The 
player raises their party base size on the party base scale by 1, 3 or 5 
points according to the donation they rejected.
07 END OF GAME AND 
FINAL SCORING
The game ends after the completion of four federal state elections.
After determining all effects of the fourth federal state election, players 
move on to final scoring:
 Media scoring: Each player scores all their media markers on the 
media/party base board according to the victory points of the media 
presence spot they are placed in.
 Party base scoring: Each player scores 1 victory point for each point 
achieved on the party base scale.
 Leftover money: Only the two players with the most leftover 
money score victory points for money according to the table below. In 
case of a tie for the first and for the second player, each participating 
player scores the entire victory points according to the table.
1. player
6 Victory points
2. player
3 Victory points
 The player with the highest final score of victory points is the most 
successful party ruler and wins Die Macher.
08 SEVEN FEDERAL 
STATE ELECTIONS
Die Macher offers players that want to dive deep into the inner workings 
of German politics, an expanded game over seven elections. Behold, this 
is a truly epic gaming experience!
IN ANY CASE: 
 Media influence. If the player that influences the 
media is not among the winning parties, they now move a media 
marker from the federal state to the media/party base board. They 
determine the media presence spot according to the current election. 
Players mark these victory points only at the end of the game!
Example: Brandenburg grants a maximum of 21 victory points. 
The CDU receives 13 victory points for their 23 votes, the SPD recei-
ves 16 victory points for 34 votes and the Linke the maximum of 21 
victory points for their 52 votes. The FDP scores no victory points, as 
a party needs to have at least 5 votes to score victory points A . 
As the Linke is the only party that gathered 50+ votes, they are the 
winner of the election. They score an additional 12 victory points B 
and move their media marker from Brandenburg to the “10 Victory 
Points” media presence spot on the media/party base board C . The 
CDU influences the media and thus may also move one of their media 
markers from Brandenburg to the “10 VP” media presence spot D .
Afterwards the donation card is removed from the game and placed back 
into the game box.
This phase is skipped during the 4th game round, as players don't receive 
any further money in that round.
Example: Marion scored 16 victory points during the election and 
therefore takes 16,000 Euro from the bank. Her party base is currently 
at 12 points, thus she takes another 12,000 Euro. Marion then decides 
to accept the donation of 20,000 Euro. She takes the money and then 
lowers her party base marker on the party base scale by 3 points.
d Prepare for the next Game Round (not in the 4th Game Round!)
The players then prepare the next game round as follows. This phase is 
skipped in the 4th game round, instead the players end the game.
The start player now removes the entire federal state board that held its 
election in the current game round. They place the board and the tracking 
markers of the players back into the game box and discard the popular 
opinions to the discard stack on the popular opinion board.
The start player then reveals one further popular opinion in each of the 
remaining federal states. As explained in the setup of the game, no 
topic may be double, neither with the same nor the opposite attitude, if 
revealed they must be exchanged accordingly.
Finally, the start player discards all remaining party program cards from 
the party program board and draws and reveals new cards from the party 
program stack to replace the discarded ones and form a new display.

Five Game Rounds yet Seven 
Elections
The game ends after 5 game rounds. In setup, the players prepare two 
ballot box markers for later use.
In each the 4th and the 5th game rounds two federal states hold 
elections, instead of only one. Both federal states that hold elections 
will be marked with a ballot box marker in those rounds.
At the end of the 4th game round, the fourth and fifth federal states 
hold elections; and at the end of the 5th game round, the sixth and 
seventh federal states hold elections.
In setup step C, the player that reveals and places the four federal 
state cards, then takes all 12 remaining federal state cards and 
shuffles them. They then draw 3 cards from those randomly and place 
them as a face-down stack next to the federal state boards for later 
use. They then remove the leftover federal state cards from the game 
and place them back into the game box.
In each phase 9, step c), of the first 3 rounds, the player only removes 
the federal state card that completed its election and places it back 
into the game box (instead of the entire board). They then discard the 
popular opinions in that state to the discard stack. They then reveal 
and place the next federal state card from the stack onto the spot of 
the federal state board. Then they draw new popular opinions for that 
state according to the usual rules, The fifth and sixth federal states 
come into play with 2 face-up popular opinions, while the seventh 
enters the game with 3 face-up popular opinions.
At the end of the 3rd game round, one player refills each of the seven 
spots of the display on the popular opinions board with one 
- and 
one 
-card of each of the seven topics. Then they add the remaining 
draw stack to the discard stack and shuffle them together, and place 
them as the new draw stack on the popular opinions board.
Modifications to the 
“Pay Money” phase
The players only have access to three donation cards which they must 
decide on during the first 3 game rounds.
In the 4th game round, players only get money for their victory points 
earned in the elections of the fourth and fifth federal state plus 
one single time the money for their party base. There are no party 
donations left at this point.
The pay money phase is skipped altogether during the 5th game 
round, players don't receive any further money in that round.
Credits
Author:	
Karl-Heinz Schmiel
Development:	
Henning Kröpke, Uli Blennemann
Graphic design:	
Harald Lieske
Rules layout:	
Vladimir Krist, Filip Stránský
Translation:	
Philippe Schmit
Proofing:	
Kristopher Snyder
Copyright 2019 Spielworxx
Nielande 12, D-48727 Billerbeck 
www. spielworxx. de
The rules in this section take precedence when in conflict with the 
rules of earlier sections.
“Greater” Shadow Cabinet
During setup, each player takes all eight politicians of their shadow 
cabinet. The players thus have access to three new politicians:
Honorary chairman: When revealed the owning 
player must pay 8,000 Euro to the bank.
 The player places or removes a double marker from a face-up 
popular opinion. Only one single double marker may be in a given 
federal state at any time! A popular opinion with a double marker is 
safe from being shifted by the media and counts double during the 
Party executive: When revealed the owning player 
must pay 10,000 Euro to the bank.
track by 10 votes.
 The player raises their marker on the party 
base scale by 5 points.
 The player raises their marker on the trend scale by 3 spaces.
Front runner: When revealed the owning player 
must pay 20,000 Euro to the bank.
scale by 4 spaces.
track by 12 votes.
 The player changes their party program – see page 8 
( 2 Changes to the party programs).
Five media markers
Each player takes 5 media markers during setup, instead of only 4.

“Small” Shadow Cabinet
Backbencher: When revealed the owning player 
must pay 3,000 Euro to the bank.
Main Action::
from a face-up popular opinion. Only one single 
double marker may be in a given federal state at 
any time! A popular opinion with a double marker 
is safe from being shifted by the media and counts double during the 
 The player raises their marker on the votes track by 3 votes.
Vice-Chancellor: When revealed the owning player 
scale by 1 space.
from a face-up popular opinion. Only one single double marker 
may be in a given federal state at any time! A popular opinion with 
a double marker is safe from being shifted by the media and counts 
double during the transformation into votes.
Spokesperson: When revealed the owning player 
to remove their media marker from a media spot. If 
they have at least one media marker in their reserve 
themselves, they may place it without further costs 
instead of the removed one.
 The player raises their marker on the votes track by 5 votes.
Secretary: When revealed the owning player must 
pay 8,000 Euro to the bank.
track by 8 votes
Parliamentary leader: When revealed the owning 
player must pay 15,000 Euro to the bank.
 The player lowers the markers of each other 
player on the trend scale by 1 space.
“Greater” Shadow Cabinet
Honorary chairman: When revealed the owning 
player must pay 8,000 Euro to the bank..
 The player places or removes a double marker from a face-up 
popular opinion. Only one single double marker may be in a given 
federal state at any time! A popular opinion with a double marker is 
safe from being shifted by the media and counts double during the 
 
Party executive: When revealed the owning player 
must pay 10,000 Euro to the bank.
track by 10 votes.
 The player raises their marker on the party 
base scale by 5 points.
 The player raises their marker on the trend scale by 3 spaces.
Front runner: When revealed the owning player 
must pay 20,000 Euro to the bank.
scale by 4 spaces.
track by 12 votes.