Welcome to Ankh-Morpork, the largest, smelliest, and most ‘interesting’ 
city on Discworld. The city’s patrician, Lord Vetinari, has disappeared, 
and the citizens are calling out for firm leadership. Will one of the noble 
families take control of the city, or will the people welcome the return 
of the king to restore peace? Then again, Vetinari’s absence may have 
been temporary and his spies could be spreading around the city, ready 
to start pulling the levers of power for their master. 
Ankh-Morpork is a relatively simple game. When it is your turn 
you play a card, do what it says on it, and then fill your hand 
back up to five cards. The next player then does the same, and so 
on until someone declares that they have won the game, or the 
deck of cards runs out. What you need to do to win the game 
depends on the secret personality that is assigned to you at the 
start of the game. You must keep your aims secret from the other 
players and at the same time try to divine what your competitors 
are up to and make sure they do not beat you to the ultimate 
prize – lordship over the most unruly city in Discworld.
DISCWORLD
ANKH-MORPORK
®

As well as the rule book and the playing board you should also have the following pieces:
four sets of twelve 
minion pieces,
twelve trouble 
markers,
four sets of 
six buildings,
one twelve 
sided die,
four demon pieces,
three troll pieces,
twelve Random 
Event cards,
thirty-five silver coins worth 
$1 each, seventeen gold 
coins worth $5 each,
four Player Aid cards,
seven Personality 
forty-eight green 
bordered Player 
and fifty-three 
brown bordered 
Player cards.
twelve City Area 
The board shows the city of Ankh-Morpork. The city has been 
divided into twelve areas. Each area is bordered either by a line or 
the River Ankh. Every area has a nameplate, a number and a cost 
for building there. The number in an area is used to determine 
where random events occur. Areas are adjacent if they share a 
common border or are connected by bridge.
Components 

Each player should select a set of playing pieces of the 
same colour. A set consists of twelve minion pieces 
and six building pieces. Each player should place one 
of their minions in The Shades, The Scours, and 
Dolly Sisters. One trouble marker should also be 
placed in each of these three areas.
Place the remaining trouble markers 
by the side of the board. 
Place the money by the side of the 
board to form a bank. Each player 
starts with ten Ankh-Morpork dollars. 
During the game players cannot hide 
how much money they have from 
other players. 
Place the demon and troll pieces 
by the side of the board. 
Shuffle the Personality cards and deal 
one to each player. You keep your 
Personality card secret until you either 
achieve the victory conditions on it or 
the game ends. Place the remaining 
Personality cards to one side, without 
examining them. 
Shuffle the Random Event cards and 
place in a deck face down by the side 
of the board.
Players will take it in turn to have their ‘go’, starting 
with the first player. 
When it’s your turn you choose one of your cards to play. 
You do whatever it tells you to do on the card. You may have 
the option to play another card. When you have finished 
playing cards you then take enough cards from the draw pile 
to bring your hand size back to five cards. It may be that 
during your turn you picked up more cards, bringing your 
hand size up to more than five. This is fine, you just do not 
pick up any more cards at the end of your turn and neither 
do you have to discard any. 
Starting the game
Playing the game
Separate the Player cards into two decks, the green bordered 
deck and the brown bordered deck. Shuffle the brown deck 
and place it on the table, face down. Then shuffle the green 
deck and place it on top of the brown deck, face down. 
Deal out five cards from the top of the deck to each player. 
Place the remaining cards by the side 
of the board to form a draw pile.
Place the City Area cards face up 
on display by the side of the map so 
that they can be clearly seen by all 
of the players.
Each player should also take one 
Player Aid card. This card helps to 
remind you about important rules.
Use the die to randomly 
determine who will be the 
first player.
Playing with just two players 
– You will need to remove the 
Chrysoprase card before 
shuffling and dealing out 
Personality cards. You will also 
need to remove the Hubert and 
Cosmos Lavish cards from the 
draw pile (both are brown 
bordered cards).
Now the player to your left has his or her turn. Play continues 
in this manner until either one player declares that he or she 
has won (which depends on their Personality card) or the 
draw pile is exhausted. At this point if a player is Commander 
Vimes then they have won, otherwise the player with the most 
points wins the game.
It is very important for all players to be aware of what all 
of the potential victory conditions are. You must be careful 
not to ‘gift’ the game to another player by not keeping an eye 
on what they are doing. The victory conditions are detailed 
towards the end of this rule book. Please make sure you read 
them carefully before you start to play the game.

The key to this game is learning how the Player cards 
work. Nearly every such card has one or more 
symbols at the top. These symbols tell you what 
actions you can do and the order in which they can 
be performed. 
When you play a card you may carry out some or all of the 
actions indicated. The order in which the actions can be 
performed goes from left to right along the top of the card. 
You are not forced to perform an individual action, so you 
could choose one or more not to perform. The only action 
that you must perform is the Random Event action. Once 
you have finished with the card you place it next to the draw 
pile, face-up. This is the discard pile.
Example: If you played the Bursar card then you 
would first draw a Random Event card, you 
would then have the option to swap the positions 
of two minions (as written at the bottom of the 
card). Finally, you would have the option to play 
another card.
You complete one action before you start the next action.
Each of the actions is explained on this and the following 
page. Note that there are two ‘asides’, one to explain trouble 
markers and the other to explain City Area cards.
Place a minion
You take one of your minion pieces and you place 
it in an area on the board. You must place it in 
either an area that you already have a minion in or in an 
adjacent area. There is no limit on the number of minions 
that can be placed in an area. If you already have all of your 
minions on the board then you can remove one and then 
place it somewhere else (making sure you follow the other 
rules above). These rules apply whenever you have to place a 
minion, including due to the play of an interrupt card. If you 
do not have a minion on the board then you can place your 
minion in any area. 
Trouble markers
Whenever a minion is placed or moved into an area that 
already has one or more minions in it then you must place 
a trouble marker in that area. An area can only contain one 
trouble marker. As soon as a minion is moved or removed 
from an area, any trouble marker in the area is also removed 
(even if there are two or more minions remaining). Placing a 
building in an area does not cause trouble. There are two main 
effects of trouble. Firstly, you can only assassinate a minion if 
there is a trouble marker in that area. Secondly, you cannot 
build a building in an area that contains a trouble marker. 
Trolls and demons are regarded as being minions and so will 
affect trouble in the same way as a player’s minion. 
Example: Let’s assume that you are the red player (for this 
and all other examples) and you have just played a card with 
the ‘Place a minion’ symbol on it. As you already have a minion 
Example: Here is an example of what happens when you place 
a minion in an area that already contains a minion. The picture 
to the left shows the board before you have your turn, the one on 
the right after you’ve had it. As there was already a minion in 
Dimwell you must also place a trouble marker in the area. 
Place a building 
You can place one of your building pieces in an 
area that you have a minion in. You cannot build 
in an area that already contains either a building or 
a trouble marker. The cost of placing the building 
is shown in the area and on the matching City Area card. 
You pay this amount of money to the bank. You then take 
the matching City Area card into your possession. If, for any 
reason, the building is removed later on then you must return 
the City Area card to the display. Place the card in front of 
your position, face up. 
You can have up to six buildings on the board. If you already 
have six buildings on the board then you can choose one to 
remove and place in the area you wish to build in. Make sure 
you return the City Area card for the area that you remove 
your building from.
in Dolly Sisters you can legally place one in any area indicated 
by the arrows. Note that areas that are connected by bridges are 
adjacent to each other. 

Example: In the part of the map shown you can only place a 
building in Nap Hill. Dolly Sisters has a trouble marker in it, 
Seven Sleepers already has a building, and you do not have a 
minion in either Unreal Estate or Dragon’s Landing. If you do 
go ahead and build in Nap Hill then you must pay $12 to the 
bank. Note that even though the yellow player has more minions 
than you in Nap Hill you can still place a building there. Once 
you have placed your building you take the Nap Hill card.
City Area Cards
Every area on the board has a City Area card. Each card grants 
you a particular ability. In most cases you can use this ability 
once per turn and you choose when you wish to use it. What 
you cannot do is use the ability on a card in the same turn that 
you gained it. The Small Gods card is the exception and can be 
used when it is not your turn to react to the result of a random 
event. Here is a more detailed description of each of the card 
abilities:
The Shades – At any point in your turn you can place one 
trouble marker in The Shades or an adjacent area (area must 
contain at least one minion). 
Dolly Sisters – Once per turn you can pay $3 and place one 
of your minions in Dolly Sisters or an adjacent area. 
The Scours – Once per turn you can discard one card and 
take $2 from the bank.
Dimwell – Once per turn you can pay $3 and place one of 
your minions in Dimwell or an adjacent area.
Nap Hill – Once per turn you can take $1 from the bank.
Longwall – Once per turn you can take $1 from the bank.
The Hippo – Once per turn you can take $2 from the bank.
Dragon’s Landing – Once per turn you can take $2 from 
Isle of Gods – Once per turn you can pay $2 to remove one 
trouble marker from the board.
Small Gods – Whenever one of your minions or buildings is 
affected by a random event you can pay $3 to ignore the effect. 
If more than one piece is affected then you must pay $3 for 
each piece you wish to protect.
Seven Sleepers – Once per turn you can take $3 from 
Unreal Estate – Once per turn you can draw one card and 
then discard a card.
Assassination – You remove one minion 
(but not your own) or troll or demon of your choice 
from an area that contains a trouble marker. 
Remember that this will also remove the trouble 
marker from the area.
Remove one trouble marker 
– You remove one trouble marker from an area 
of your choice. 
Take money – The gold circle has an amount 
of money shown in it. You take this amount from 
Scroll – Perform the action described in the text 
at the bottom of the card.
Random Event – This is the only action that 
isn’t optional. You must draw the top card from the 
Random Event deck. This will tell you which event 
occurs. You must then check the back of the rule 
book to see the effect of that event. Once you have 
completed the event you place the Random Event 
card to one side (i.e. each event can only occur once 
in the entire game).
Play another card – You play another card 
from your hand. You could end up playing a 
succession of cards that have this symbol on.
Interrupt – A card with this symbol on can be 
played at any time, even if it is not your turn. 
Most interrupt cards protect you from something 
bad happening to you. You may play this card at any 
time, even if it is not your turn. For example, 
somebody might try to assassinate one of your 
minions and you could play the ‘Gaspode’ card to 
stop them. Playing an interrupt card in your turn 
does not count as an action, Please make sure you 
play such a card promptly. If you forget to use a card 
to negate the effect of another card played against 
you then you cannot ‘go back in time’ and play the 
card retrospectively.

The game ends when either a player achieves the 
victory conditions on his or her Personality card 
OR if the ‘Riot’ Random Event card is drawn and 
the conditions on the card are met OR as soon as 
one player takes the last card from the draw pile.
All of the Personality cards apart from Commander Vimes 
state that the conditions on the card must occur at the start 
of your turn, not the end of it. 
Lord Vetinari – you win if at the 
beginning of your turn you have a certain 
number of minions in different areas on 
the board (think of them as your spies). 
With two players you need to have 
minions in at least eleven different areas. 
With three players you need to have 
minions in at least ten different areas. 
With four players you need to have 
minions in at least nine different areas. 
Areas must be free of demons. 
Lord Selachii, Lord Rust, Lord de Worde – you win if at 
the beginning of your turn you control a certain number of 
areas. If there are only two of you playing then you need to 
control seven areas, if there are three of you then you need to 
control five areas, and if there are four of you then you need 
to control four areas. You control an area if you have more 
playing pieces in it than any single other player (a playing 
piece being a minion or a building). You would also have to 
have more pieces there than the total number of trolls in the 
area. You cannot control an area that contains one or more 
demons. The presence of a trouble marker does not affect 
the control of an area.
Example: The Green player controls Seven Sleepers. The yellow 
player controls Nap Hill, even though there is a trouble marker 
there. The red player does not control Dolly Sisters as there is a 
demon there. The blue player does not control Unreal Estate as 
there is one troll there. If blue had another piece there, either 
another minion or a building, then he or she would control 
the area. Neither yellow nor green control Dragon’s Landing.
 
Dragon King of Arms – If at the beginning of your turn 
there are eight trouble markers on the board then you win. 
The rationale is that the city has fallen into more chaos than 
normal and people want the king back (who would be 
controlled by you).
Chrysoprase – If at the beginning of your turn your net worth 
(your cash plus the monetary cost of each building you have) 
is $50 or more then you win the game. Please note that any 
loans you have taken out count as $12 against your total 
worth (certain cards allow you to take out loans).
Commander Vimes – you win if nobody else wins by the 
time the draw pile has been exhausted.
If the game ends due to the draw pile running out AND 
nobody has the Commander Vimes Personality card, then 
the winner is the player with the most points. Each minion 
on the board is worth five points. Each building is worth a 
number of points equal to its monetary cost. Each $1 in hand 
is worth one point. If you have the Dent card or the Bank card 
then you must pay back the amount noted on the card. If you 
cannot do so then you lose fifteen points each. In the case of a 
tie the tied player with the highest monetary value City Area 
card is the winner. If there is still a tie then the tied players 
shared the honours of a joint win.
Ending and winning the game

®
Credits
Game designed by Martin Wallace
Artwork by Peter Dennis, Ian Mitchell, Paul Kidby, and Bernard Pearson
Graphic design by Solid Colour
Playtesters: Hannah Bryan, Mike Bryan, Abby O’Rourke, Jerry Elsmore, Chris Boote, 
Richard and Jan Dewsbery, Richard Pingree, Simon Goodway, Jess Wylde, Max Michael, 
Simon Bracegirdle, Andy Ogden, Geoff Brown, Chris Dearlove, David Dearlove, 
Catherine McManus, Alan McClenahan, Henry Proctor, Stewart Pilling, Jen Petruccio, 
Don Oddy, various people at the Convention of Wargamers, Manorcon, Sorcon, 
Beyond Monopoly, Kublacon, Hogswatch, and Spring Watch.
Thanks to Sir Terry Pratchett, Julia Wallace, Bernard and Isobel Pearson, Reb Voyce, 
Ian Mitchell, Colin Smythe, Neil Kendrick, Chris Boote, Jerry Elsmore, Ian and Jo Drury, 
Rob and Rob at Sigma, Robert Flach, Rob Mulholland, Sanders Bol, Pete Chapman, 
Charles Bishop, Steve Rohan-Jones, David Gatheral, Jason Anthony, Helen and Chris Smith 
and load and loads of Discworld fans.
© Terry Pratchett 2011.
Discworld is a registered trademark belonging to Terry Pratchett. Ankh-Morpork® is an official 
DISCWORLD® board game and as such is protected by a worldwide copyright.
www.treefroggames.com
www.mayfairgames.com
Q. What exactly happens if I play Ponder Stibbons 
or Drumknott?
A. You choose any two cards from your hand to play. You 
should treat each card you play as a separate set of actions. 
Thus, if one of the cards allows you to play another card then 
you can do so, following on from that particular card. Once 
you have completed all of the actions associated with one of 
the cards you can then play the second card, which may also 
result in you being able to play additional cards. If you play 
all of your cards then your turn ends.
Q. If somebody plays the Death card against me can 
I use an interrupt card, such as Gaspode, to protect 
two of my minions?
A. No. An interrupt card will only protect one minion. You 
may block the first attempt to remove one of your minions, 
but the player who played the Death card could use the 
second assassination symbol to remove the minion that you 
just protected. You would have to play another interrupt card 
to stop the second attempt to remove your minion.
Q. What exactly does the Wallace Sonky card do? 
A. Wallace Sonky protects you against the text effect of 
another card. It does not protect you against symbols on 
other cards, so it would not protect one of your minions 
being removed by a card with an assassination symbol on 
it. However, it would protect one of your minions being 
removed due to somebody playing the Carcer card, as the 
effect of the card is described in the text area. Other examples 
of cards it would protect against are The Fire Brigade, 
Dr Whiteface, and The Thieves' Guild. It cannot be used to 
protect another player, only you benefit from its use. It does 
not protect against random events. If you do use the card then 
the card you block cannot then be used against another player.
Q. Can the Small Gods card protect you against 
demons?
A. Yes. You can pay $3 to stop a demon piece being placed in 
an area. The demon piece should be placed to one side, it is 
not placed on the board.
Q. Can Carcer remove troll or demon pieces?
A. Yes, troll and demon pieces should be treated just like 
player minion pieces.
Q. What happens if I cannot play a card during 
my turn?
A. You are forced to pass. You would still draw cards 
as normal.
Frequently asked questions
Q. If you place one of your minions in an area that 
only contains minions of your own colour do you still 
place a trouble marker?
A. Yes, you still place a trouble marker.
Q. Do I have to control an area to be able to build 
a building?
A. No, you need to have at least one minion there, and there 
cannot be a trouble marker in the area.
Q. If I use a card that allows me to move a minion can 
that cause trouble?
A. Yes. Whenever you add or move a minion into an area that 
already has one or more minions in it then you place a trouble 
marker in there (unless it already contains one).
Q. Can I get rid of the Fools’ Guild or Dr Whiteface?
A. No, once you have accepted one 
of these cards you are stuck with 
it for the rest of the game. Each of 
these cards counts towards your hand 
size, so the effect is to reduce your 
hand size by one. You cannot discard 
it using The Scours or Unreal Estate.

Many of the events have an effect on buildings. If you 
lose a building then you must hand back the City Area 
card that goes with it.
The Dragon
Roll the die to determine which area on the board will be hit 
by the dragon. Remove all minions (including demons and 
trolls), any trouble marker, and any building from the area 
affected.
Flood
Roll the die twice to see which areas are affected by flood. 
Areas rolled that are adjacent to the river are affected by flood. 
In player order, starting with the active player, each player 
must move their minions from the affected areas to adjacent 
areas. You cannot move your minion to another area affected 
by flood. You can still move to an area adjacent to the river. 
Buildings, trolls, and demons remain in the areas and are not 
affected by flooding.
Fire 
Roll the die to establish the area of the fire. If there is no 
building in the rolled area then the random event ends 
without effect. If there is a building in the area then remove it 
from the board and roll the die again. If the next area rolled is 
adjacent to the previous area and there is a building in it then 
remove that building too (the fire has spread). You continue 
rolling in this manner until you roll an area that either does 
not contain a building or that is not adjacent to the last area 
you rolled.
Fog 
Draw and discard the top five cards from the draw pile. Make 
sure you and the rest of the players can see which cards have 
been discarded.
Riots
If there are eight or more trouble markers on the board then 
the game ends immediately. You now work out who has won 
by adding up points (see page 6). Please note that if a player 
is Commander Vimes then they do not win at this stage, 
although they may still win on points.
Explosion 
Roll the die and remove any building in the area of the 
same number.
Mysterious Murders! 
You roll one die and remove a minion of your choice from the 
area of the same number. You then pass the die to the player 
to your left, who rolls it and removes a minion of their choice 
from the area of the same number. Repeat this procedure until 
all players have rolled the die once. If you roll an area and only 
you have minions there then you must remove one of them.
Demons from the Dungeon Dimensions 
Roll the die four times and place one demon minion piece in 
each of the areas matching the numbers rolled. More than one 
demon can end up in an area. If there is not a trouble marker 
in the area that a demon is placed in then place such a marker, 
even if there is no other minion in the area. While there are 
one or more demons in an area the power on the City Area 
card cannot be used and any building there has a value of zero. 
The area also cannot be controlled by any player nor does it 
count as an occupied area for Vetinari. If an area still has one 
or more demons in it at the end of the game then nobody 
scores any points for minions or buildings there. Demons 
can be moved or removed from the board in the same way 
as minions.
Subsidence 
All players must pay $2 for each building they have on the 
board. If they cannot pay for a building then it is removed 
from the board. 
Bloody Stupid Johnson 
Roll the die. If the City Area Card of the same number is 
in play then it is set to one side and is no longer in the game, 
i.e. the power on the card is not in effect. Also, the owner 
of the card must remove one minion from the same area as 
the card. The building still counts towards control of the 
area and retains its monetary value at the end of the game.
Trolls 
Roll the die three times and place one troll piece in each 
area of the same number. More than one troll can end up 
in an area. Remember to place a trouble marker if there 
is already one or more minions in the area. Trolls are like 
minions, except they do not belong to any player. They affect 
your ability to control an area, in that you must treat them as 
belonging to ‘another player’. You can move or remove them 
from the board in the same way as a minion.
Earthquake 
Roll the die twice and remove any buildings from the areas 
of the same number, if any.
Random events