A thematic strategy game of crafting spirits 
in an up-and-coming distillery for 1–5 players
GAME DESIGN by Dave Beck ART by Erik Evensen
RULEBOOK
Distilled

5 Player 
Scoring Tokens
37 Wooden Bronze, 
Silver, and Gold Cubes
85 Spirit
Label Tokens
5 Double-Sided Score
Modifier Tokens
1 Shelf Board
1 First Player Token
& 1 Round Marker Barrel
10 Starting
Item Cards
47 Solo Goal Cards 
& 1 Solo Goal Swap Card
5 Player
Reference Cards
88 Basic Market 
Ingredient/Item Cards
36 Premium Market
Ingredient Cards
33 Premium Market
Item Cards
5 Distillery 
Boards
18 Signature
Ingredient Cards
30 Distillery
Upgrade Cards
18 Signature
Recipe Label Tokens
18 Distiller
Identity Cards
20 Distillery
Goal Cards
59 Money Tokens
(1, 5, 10 value)
1 Truck Board 
& 1 Basic Market Board
5 Dual-Layered 
Recipe Clipboards & 
20 Double-Sided Recipe 
Tasting Flights
23 Spirit Award
Tokens
40 Flavor
Cards
60 Alcohol
Cards
COMPONENTS
INTRODUCTION
You have inherited an abandoned 
distillery from a distant relative 
and are now tasked with bringing 
your family’s business back to 
its former glory.
Over the course of seven rounds 
you will acquire ingredients, 
items, recipes, and upgrades to 
create the world’s most 
renowned spirits.
Whoever has the most 
spirit points at the end of 
the game earns the title 
of Master Distiller.
BEGINNER GUIDE: If this is your first time playing Distilled, we recommend pairing this 
book with the walkthrough detailed in the First Taste booklet. It is intended for 2 to 5 
players and will guide you through the first round of play to teach the basic phases of 
the game. It relies on this book for some of the game setup and later mechanics 
of the game, so keep this rulebook handy as a reference.

Shelf Board: Place the shelf board on the table. It holds spirit 
labels and tracks rounds and spirit points. Place a scoring token 
for each player in a color of their choice next to it and the round 
marker (brown barrel) on the ‘1’ space of the round track.
Basic Market: Place the basic market board on the table, and lay 
out all the basic ingredient and item cards into 7 face-up piles as 
shown. This creates the basic market. 
Premium Market: Shuffle each of the three decks of distillery 
upgrade cards, premium ingredient cards, and premium item 
cards separately, and set them above each other as shown. 
Lay out the top 4 cards of each deck face up in a row beside it. 
This creates the premium market.
Tasting Flight: Choose a tasting flight to use for this game and 
give each player that tasting flight. Return unused cards to the box. 
If this is your first game, we recommend using Tasting Flight A. 
For future games, consult the tasting flight appendix on pages 
18–19 for more options.
8.	
Spirit Labels: Place the spirit label tokens pictured on the tasting 
flight, as well as for Moonshine and Vodka, in separate face-up 
stacks at the top of the shelf board. Include 2 Moonshine and 
Vodka labels per player, and 1 label for all other spirits per player. 
Return any unused labels to the box. 
	
Example: a 3-player game would have 6 Vodka labels 
and 3 Whiskey labels.
Truck: Place the truck board beside the premium market. 
This is where discarded cards from the premium market 
are placed.
Flavor and Alcohol Cards: Shuffle the flavor cards and 
place them face-down within reach. Place the 
alcohol cards face-up beside them.
Recipe Cubes: Place the bronze, silver, and gold 
recipe cubes within reach. 
9.	
Spirit Awards: Randomly select 
a number of spirit awards 
equal to the number of players 
plus one and place them 
face-up on the table.
10.	 Money: Place the money tokens 
within reach to create 
a general supply. 
In a 5 player game 
there will be 6 
spirit awards.
Use the barrel 
token to track 
the game round.
Look for the letter 
in the upper right.
Leave these spots empty for now, 
they will be used when players 
pass 50 on the spirit point track.
You do not need 
to enjoy whiskey 
while you play, 
but we like it!
GAME SETUP
Use your player 
token to move about 
the spirit point track.

Distillery Board: Give each player a distillery board to place in their player 
area along with the score modifier token of matching color.
Recipe Clipboard: Give each player a recipe clipboard to place to the right of 
their distillery board. Place the chosen tasting flight card in each clipboard.
Starting Items: Give each player one starting Metal Barrel card and one 
starting Glass Bottle card to place in their storeroom on their distillery board.
Distillery Goals: Shuffle the distillery goal cards and deal three to each 
player. They are private and one will be discarded after the third round. 
Return the remaining goals to the box.
First Player: Randomly choose a player to take the first player token or give 
it to whoever last visited a distillery.
Distiller Identities: Deal each player two random identities from those paired 
with a chosen tasting flight. For example, for Tasting Flight A use: America, 
Brazil, Jamaica, Canada, China, Korea, India, Australia, England, France, 
Scotland, Ireland (see pages 18-19 for pictures of the paired identities).
Each player should then do the following:
Select one of their two distiller identities and return the other to the box.
	
a.	Take the ingredients and money listed on the reverse side 
		 of their distiller identity card. Place the ingredients in their 
		 pantry on their distillery board.
	
b.	Take the signature recipe label and signature ingredient 
		 stated on the distiller identity card; place the label on their 
		 clipboard recipe-side up and the ingredient out of play next 
		 to their distillery board.
	
c.	Place the distiller identity card face-up on the office space 
		 on their distillery board.
ROUND OVERVIEW
Distilled takes place over seven rounds.
At the start of each round, perform any start of round actions 
on your distiller identity or distillery upgrade cards.
Each round is made up of four phases:
1.	 Market Phase
	
Acquire recipes, ingredients, items, and distillery upgrades.
2.	 Distill Phase
	
Distill a spirit using your ingredients, add a barrel, 
	
and claim a spirit label.
3.	 Sell Phase
	
Bottle and sell your spirits, score SP, receive 
	
money, and take label bonus.
4.	 Age Phase
	
Age your spirits in your warehouse to add 
	
flavor and prestige.
At the end of each round, check if any spirit awards have 
been fulfilled, hold tastings, advance the round marker, 
and pass the first player token clockwise.
GAME END
The game ends after the seventh round has been completed. In addition to 
the SP received for spirits sold, you score additional SP for the following:
	
•	Spirits left aging in your warehouse
	
•	Bottle collection
	
•	Distillery upgrades
	
•	Distillery goals
	
•	Money (1 SP for every 5 money)
Whoever has the most SP wins the game and earns the coveted 
title of Master Distiller.
DISTILLERY BOARDS
Your distillery board represents your family distillery, and it is where you 
keep your cards and age your spirits.
	
A.	
The office holds your distiller identity card.
	
B.	
Three spaces for your distillery upgrades.
	
C.	
The pantry holds your ingredients.
	
D.	
The storeroom holds your items (barrels and bottles).
	
E.	
The warehouse holds up to two spirits being aged. 
	
F.	
The washback is used when you distill a spirit. Yeast, sugar, and 
	
	
water ingredients are placed here during the Market Phase and 
	
	
the Distill Phase.
	
G.	
When you sell a spirit you are able to place its label on one of these 
	
	
seven spirit label bonus spaces.
GAME OVERVIEW
The goal of Distilled is to earn the title of 
Master Distiller by having the most spirit points 
(SP) at the end of the game. SP are earned 
mainly by selling spirits throughout the game, 
but SP are also earned by claiming 
spirit awards, upgrading your distillery, 
achieving your distillery goals, and collecting 
premium bottles. The detailed rules are 
covered in the coming pages, but here is 
a brief overview of the game.
DISTILLERY GOALS provide you with three secret 
objectives that you can attempt to complete to score 
additional spirit points at the end of the game. After 
three rounds, players will discard one of the three and 
keep the remaining two. These goals are focused on 
what you do in comparison to the other players, so you 
will need to keep an eye on the competition if you want 
to achieve them. Distillery Goals may not be achieved 
by scoring zero.
7c
7a
7a
7b
7b
PLAYER SETUP
The Master Distiller is the person in charge of 
spirit-making. At large distilleries, this person 
may not be running the still at all times, but 
is making key decisions about ingredients, 
timing, and other details. They are the 
Executive Chef of the distilling kitchen!
A
F
C
B
G
D
E
The washback (F) is the container where the yeast, 
sugars, and water ferment before distillation. 
These giant barrels are sometimes over 20 feet deep! 

Your distiller identity describes your 
family’s distilling heritage and 
specialized knowledge of a signature 
recipe that uses a specific ingredient.
Each identity has a unique power 
that provides a benefit throughout 
the course of the game. Each identity 
also comes from one of the three 
geographic regions; for example, 
Joana is from the Americas region.
Some recipes and cards will use the 
distiller’s region icon to show that they 
count as whichever region your distiller 
comes from.
For example, if you distill a Vodka with Joana, it would 
count as an Americas spirit. If Joana uses a Skull Bottle, 
it will count as an Americas bottle at the end of the game 
for the bottle collection.
Each distiller identity brings their own SIGNATURE 
RECIPE. This recipe is extremely prestigious, but can 
only be made once per game. In addition to the usual 
sugar requirement, signature recipes must also include 
at least one of a specific ingredient. This could be either 
your signature ingredient or a premium ingredient. 
Joana’s Caninha Cachaça requires at least two plant sugars, 
one or more being Sugarcane. It cannot contain grain or fruit 
sugars and cannot be aged. It is from the Americas region 
and scores 11 SP and 1 money when sold.
Your SIGNATURE INGREDIENT can only be acquired 
through one of the spirit label bonuses on your distillery 
board. It can help you distill your signature recipe or can be 
used to distill another recipe that requires that sugar type. 
Unlike premium ingredients, signature ingredients also 
have a special power that means they can be returned to 
the spirit if removed during the Distill Phase. 
RECIPES represent the knowledge needed to craft spirits. At the 
start of the game, you only know how to make Moonshine, Vodka, 
and your signature recipe.
During the game you can acquire the knowledge to make more 
prestigious spirits like Gin and Whiskey. Each recipe is listed in one 
of three tiers (bronze, silver, gold) and has a set cost to purchase. 
Once purchased, you are able to distill that spirit as often as you like.
INGREDIENT CARDS represent the different 
ingredients used to distill spirits. All spirits require 
three basic ingredients: yeast, sugar, and water. 
Together, through the distillation process, they 
produce alcohol.
Sugar comes from many different ingredients, like 
fruits or grains, with the type of sugar determining 
the type of spirit produced. Whiskey, for example, 
comes from grains like rye or corn, while Brandy 
comes from fruits such as grapes.
Alcohol is a fourth type of ingredient and is 
produced during the distillation process.
DISTILLERY UPGRADES come in two types:
Specialist upgrades represent staff members 
who can bring their expert knowledge to help 
in your distillery.
Equipment upgrades can improve your 
ability to distill spirits or provide discounts on 
certain cards.
When purchasing cards during the Market 
Phase, you may purchase upgrades and 
place them on your distillery board. Each of 
these upgrades gives you a special ability.
Many of the distillery upgrades also provide 
bonus SP at the end of the game.
Your distillery board has room for up to 
3 distillery upgrades at a time, but you 
may discard to the truck any that you 
have already added to your board to 
make space for a new one.
Once purchased, the effects are 
immediately active. For example, the 
Glass Blower’s discount can be used 
when purchasing a bottle in the same 
market phase you purchase it, while 
cards with a start of round power, 
like the Farmer, will first trigger at the 
beginning of the next round. If multiple 
players have competing powers that 
trigger at the same time, resolve them 
in turn order.
ITEM CARDS represent the barrels and bottles 
necessary to distill and package your spirits.
Each spirit must be distilled into a barrel. 
While you always have a metal barrel 
available to you as a starting item, some spirits require a wood or clay 
barrel which you will need to buy from a market. More expensive barrels 
can improve the quality and sell value of your spirits.
Bottles are needed to sell your spirits. You always have a glass bottle 
available to you as a starting item, but a fancier bottle can improve the 
prestige and sell value of your spirits. Premium bottles may also count 
toward end game scoring as part of your bottle collection.
Each recipe shows the required 
type and minimum quantity of 
sugar needed to distill that spirit. 
Sugars with a cannot be 
included in the spirit.
It also shows the type of barrel 
required, and if the spirit needs to be 
aged in your warehouse to enhance 
the flavor before it can be sold. Finally, 
the recipe lists its value in spirit points, 
sell value (Moonshine and Vodka 
only), and its geographic region.
For example, Soju is in the bronze tier and is from the Asia & Oceania 
region. It requires at least two grain sugars and a metal barrel. It cannot 
contain plant or fruit sugars, and cannot be aged. It will score 5 spirit 
points when sold.
Rum is in the silver tier and is from the Americas region. It requires at 
least two plant sugars and a wood barrel. It cannot contain grain or fruit 
sugars. It also must be aged for at least one round and will score 11 
spirit points when sold.
ASIA & 
OCEANIA
DISTILLER’S 
While we’ve tried to preserve many real-world elements in the game, we 
have designed the game for strategy and play. For example, the greatest 
portion of spirits we drink today are made from grains and grapes. 
We’ve created fruit as a larger category, and a plant category to capture 
everything else (sugarcane, agave, and even some spice). 
A distillery is at its heart a fusion of technical and creative 
expertise. Distillery Upgrades are a way to give your distillery 
a unique flavor, through both personnel and equipment.
SELL 
VALUE
SELL 
VALUE
TYPE 
ICON
ITEM & 
ICONS
ITEM & 
AGING 
ICONS
CARD TYPE
CARD 
EFFECT
For gameplay, we’re interpreting the more general neutral spirits as easier 
to make (Vodka and Moonshine). The signature recipes are more authentic, 
so we’ve chosen spirits that do have specific ingredients required, but some 
creative license was needed at times.
WATER
BOTTLE
ALCOHOL
YEAST
WOOD
METAL
CLAY
PLANT
GRAIN
FRUIT
START OF 
ROUND ICON
DISTILLER IDENTITIES

1. MARKET PHASE
In this phase you will take turns, starting with the first player and moving 
clockwise around the table, to purchase any of the following:
	
•	Recipe cubes
	
•	Basic ingredient or item cards
	
•	Premium ingredient or item cards
	
•	Distillery upgrade cards
When it is your turn, you may purchase one cube or card, or you may pass. 
Play will continue in this way until everyone has passed. You can make 
multiple purchases in this phase, but only one at a time.
Once you have passed you may not make any further purchases this round.
When you purchase a cube or a card, take it from the market and pay the 
market cost by returning that amount of money from your personal supply 
to the general supply.
	
•	Place recipe cubes on your recipe clipboard.
	
•	Place ingredient cards either in your pantry or directly 
	
	 into your washback.
	
•	Place item cards in your storeroom.
	
•	Place distillery upgrades on one of the three upgrade spaces.
2. DISTILL PHASE
In this phase you will place ingredients you want to use into your washback to 
distill a single spirit. All players can do this at the same time. 
At the start of the Distill Phase you may trade exactly one of your ingredient 
or item cards for a basic ingredient (not item) of equal or lesser market cost 
from the basic market. Discard the traded card either to the relevant face-
up stack or to the truck if it is from the premium market. Yeast, Alcohol, and 
starting items may not be traded away.
Next, place any ingredients that you don’t 
want to use into your pantry for a later 
round and move any ingredients stored 
in your pantry that you want to use to the 
appropriate slot in your washback.
To distill a spirit, you must place at least one 
card in the yeast, sugar, and water slots of 
your washback. There is no limit to how many 
cards you can place in each slot, but each slot can only contain that type of card.
Alcohol cards (removed from earlier distillations) can be placed in either the yeast 
or the water slot of your washback instead of or alongside those ingredients. Once 
you’ve added your ingredients to your washback, follow these steps to distill a spirit:
Nearly all spirits in the world 
are created from three base 
ingredients: yeast, water, 
and some sort of sugar. 
The yeast consumes the 
simple sugars and produces 
ethanol and carbon dioxide.
Distilleries remove the first 
parts of the liquid that comes 
out of the stills, which are called 
the “heads” or “foreshots.” 
These lighter alcohols are 
poisonous and must be “cut” 
out. The central and largest 
portion—the heart—is what 
makes the spirit. At the end 
of distillation, the unpleasant 
flavors—the “tails” or “feints”—
are also cut out. Both the heads 
and tails of the run are then 
re-used in future distillations.
For gameplay, we’ve simplified the gin-making process. 
To make actual gin, you would need a neutral spirit 
(vodka) made from any sugar, and flavor it with juniper 
berries and other botanicals.
TRADE EXAMPLE: In the Market Phase, you 
purchased a Potatoes card for 3 money, 
but now realize that you need more fruit 
sugars for the Gin you wish to distill this 
round. Mixed Fruits costs 2 money from 
the basic market, therefore you can 
discard your Potatoes to the truck and 
take a Mixed Fruits from the basic market.
GAMEPLAY
Resolve any start of round powers from distillery identities or 
distillery upgrade cards, using turn order if any compete. 
Then, you’re off to the market. 
RECIPES AND DISTILLING: 
The recipes state the types 
of sugar (grain, fruit, or plant) 
required. Unless specified, your 
distilled spirit stack must not 
contain any type of sugar that is 
not listed on the recipe. This is 
checked after the top and bottom 
cards have been removed.
Any spirit stack will always match 
either Vodka (if it contains any 
sugars) or Moonshine (if it contains 
no sugars at all). Moonshine is 
created when a spirit stack’s 
only sugars are removed during 
distillation.
VODKA can be distilled 
with any combination 
of sugars: grain, fruit, 
and/or plant, and 
needs a metal barrel.
GIN requires at least 
two fruit and a metal 
barrel. If you are 
missing any of these 
requirements, or if 
you have included any 
grain or plant sugars, 
you are not able to 
make Gin.
WHISKEY requires at 
least two grain sugars 
and a wood barrel (as it 
will need to be aged 
for at least one round). 
It must not include plant 
or fruit sugars, or be 
made using a metal 
or clay barrel.
It is possible that the Water, Yeast, and Alcohol cards could be removed 
in distillation. While it may seem strange to contain no alcohol, think of it 
as a lower quality spirit (with a lower price point to match).
IMPORTANT: You can only purchase two cards from the basic market 
each round. To make sure you follow this limit, keep the basic cards 
face up in front of your distillery until the end of the phase.
Immediately after purchasing a face-up card from the premium market, 
refill the market by first sliding cards to the right to fill in the gap you 
created, then drawing a new card from the deck to fill the leftmost space. 
If any of the market decks run out, reshuffle all cards of that type from the 
truck and use them as the new deck.
MARKET CLEAN UP
Once all players have passed, discard the rightmost face-up card from each 
premium market row (or two rightmost in two player games), placing them 
face-up on the truck. Shift all cards to the right and lay out the top card of 
each deck to fill the leftmost space so there are always four cards available 
in each row.
RECIPES: To purchase a recipe shown on your tasting flight, first check 
which tier it is on your recipe list (bronze, silver, or gold) and then pay the 
price shown to take a cube of that tier.
Place that cube on your recipe list next to the recipe you wish to learn. 
You now know how to distill that spirit and you can use that recipe for the 
rest of the game.
For example, to unlock the Whiskey recipe you will need to pay 4 money 
to purchase a silver recipe cube. Then place that cube in the slot to the 
left of the Whiskey recipe on your recipe list.
You begin the game knowing how to make Moonshine, Vodka, and your 
signature recipe, so you do not need to purchase a recipe cube to unlock 
these recipes.
BASIC YEAST AND WATER: These give you an optional bonus when 
you purchase them from the basic market during the market phase. 
These bonuses are not earned when the cards are taken with powers 
or acquired through trade.
YEAST: Immediately 
gain 1 money
WATER: Reveal the top 
card of any market deck 
to all players. You may 
purchase that card this 
turn or return it to the 
bottom of the deck
WHISKEY or WHISKY? It depends on where you live! While most of the 
world spells it without an ‘e’ (whisky), the USA and Ireland tend to spell 
it with an ‘e.’ We’ve tried to respect both spellings, as you’ll see on 
either side of the whisk(e)y spirit label!
The basic market represents a distiller’s cooperative. It is a term for 
an association of people who cooperate for their mutual economic 
benefit. This might be a location or an organization where distillers 
can go to purchase goods at a discount.
Reveal the remaining cards in the spirit stack: this is the result of your distillation. 
If these cards, with the appropriate barrel, match the requirements of one of 
the recipes you know, you have successfully distilled that spirit! If you match the 
requirements of two or more recipes, you must choose which spirit to distill. 
Lay out all cards in the spirit stack, add an appropriate barrel card, and claim a 
spirit label that matches what you distilled. If two or more players distill the same 
spirit and there are not enough labels remaining, take the labels in turn order. 
As all the cards in the washback are used, you can only distill one spirit per round.
	
1. Add one alcohol card to your 
washback for each card in the 
central, sugar slot of your 
washback.
	
2. Shuffle all cards in your 
washback together to form a 
face-down spirit stack.
	
3. Remove and reveal the top and 
bottom cards of the spirit stack, 
returning them to your pantry 
for use in a future round.
	
	 see example on p. 12
IMPORTANT: If there are no more labels for a particular spirit available, 
you can still make that spirit. But you won’t be able to claim a spirit label 
bonus when selling it.

At the beginning of the Distill 
Phase, the player’s washback 
contains one Yeast, two sugars 
(Mixed Grains and Mixed Fruits), 
and one Water, so they add two 
Alcohol to it (because of the 
two sugars).
They then shuffle these six cards 
together and remove both the 
top and bottom cards—which 
turn out to be a Water and an 
Alcohol—returning them to 
their pantry.
The remaining cards make up the 
spirit stack, which determines 
what they have distilled:
They reveal their spirit stack to the table and check their recipes. Since this 
stack has at least one sugar (from the Mixed Grains or Mixed Fruits), they 
have distilled Vodka. They add their starting Metal Barrel to hold it and take a 
Vodka label from the supply.
Since Vodka cannot be aged, the player must sell it in the next phase.
3. SELL PHASE
In this phase you can sell the spirit that you just distilled, as well as any spirits 
aging in your warehouse, to gain money and spirit points.
If a recipe has the non-age icon, you 
cannot age it and MUST sell it this round.
If a recipe has the age icon, you MUST 
age it for at least one round after 
distilling it—you cannot sell it 
immediately after distilling it.
Selling is performed in turn order, moving clockwise, and you can sell one spirit 
per turn. If you have multiple spirits to sell this round you will need to wait for 
your turn to come back around before selling the second spirit.
Follow these steps to sell a spirit: (see example on page 14)
Lay out the entire spirit stack, including the barrel and any flavor cards, 
and add a bottle from your storeroom to this stack. 
Count the total sell value on these cards, as well as on the recipe 
(Moonshine, Vodka, and signatures only), and take that much money 
from the general supply. 
Count the total number of SP on these cards, 
as well as on the recipe (and the aged spirit 
flavor bonus in your warehouse if an aged spirit), 
then advance your scoring token that many spaces on the SP track. 
Place the label for that spirit on an empty space of your choice in the 
spirit label bonus section of your distillery board and immediately gain 
the bonus shown. 
If you have used your starting Metal Barrel or Glass Bottle, return them to 
your storeroom. 
Place any premium market bottles used next to your distillery, proudly on 
display. They will be part of your bottle collection and may earn additional 
SP at the end of the game.
Return any basic market cards and Alcohol cards back to their stacks, 
discard any premium market ingredient or barrel cards to the relevant 
discard pile on the truck, any flavor cards to a flavor discard pile, and 
any signature ingredients to the box (they may not be reclaimed with the 
truck discard label bonus).
You may also sell any spirits that you have aged in your warehouse in previous 
rounds, following the same steps above. If you need to age the spirit you’ve just 
distilled and your warehouse is already full, you must sell one of the spirits in 
your warehouse to make room for the new spirit.
BOTTLES: To sell a spirit you must use a bottle 
from your storeroom. Any bottle can be used to 
sell any spirit.
You will always have your starting Glass Bottle 
available in your storeroom which must be 
returned to your storeroom after use.
Bottles purchased from the premium market 
provide additional money and/or SP, but can 
only be used once.
AGED SPIRIT FLAVOR BONUS: Aged spirits receive flavor cards each time they 
are aged in the Age Phase. When sold, these flavor cards add the following 
additional SP to the aged spirit based on the number of flavors present. 
Non-aged spirits never receive these points, even if they include flavor cards.
The longer you leave your spirits aging in your warehouse, the more SP they 
will earn you. However, you will not receive the money or spirit label bonus 
for them until you sell them, so deciding when to sell an aged spirit is an 
important decision. 
The aged spirit flavor bonus points 
are displayed in your warehouse 
on your distillery board.
SPIRIT LABEL BONUSES: At the top of your distillery board there are seven spirit 
label bonus spaces, each offering a different, immediate bonus when covered 
by a label from a spirit you have sold.
These one-time bonuses can be taken in any order. You cannot place a label 
on the same space twice. 
When taking a free card from the premium market, you may choose from any of 
the face-up cards. Then, refill the market by first sliding cards to the right to fill in 
the gap you created. Draw a new card from the deck to fill the leftmost space as 
usual. Cards claimed from the truck can be any card, not just the topmost ones.
You can have more than one of the same spirit label. 
Aging spirits can bring additional complexity, smoothness, and flavors. 
In the right climate, longer aging deepens this process, while also raising 
the market price of the spirit.
At the beginning of the Distill Phase, 
the player plans to make Rum. They 
have purchased its recipe cube, 
have bought a wood barrel, and their 
washback contains one Alcohol, two 
Mixed Plants, and one Water, so they 
add two Alcohol to it, for the 
two sugars.
 
They then shuffle these six cards 
together and remove both the top and 
bottom cards—which turn out to be an 
Alcohol and a Mixed Plants—returning 
them to their pantry. The remaining cards make 
up the spirit stack, which determines what they have distilled:
They reveal their spirit stack to the table and check their recipes. 
Unfortunately, because they removed one of the plant sugars during 
distillation they have failed to make Rum, as that requires at least two plant 
sugars. Fortunately, they also know how to make Cachaça, which only 
requires one plant sugar (otherwise they’d have to make Vodka). So, they add 
their starting Metal Barrel to make that instead and take 
a Cachaça label from the supply.
The wood barrel goes back to their storeroom, ready for use next 
round when they can try to make Rum again. Next time, they plan to add more 
than two plant sugars to increase their chances of successfully distilling Rum.
SPIRIT LABELS show the key information for the 
spirit they represent. For example, this Brandy 
label shows that it is made using fruit sugars, 
it uses a wood barrel and must be aged, is 
from the Europe region, and is gold tier. This is 
important for some awards and goals.
SIGNATURE RECIPES have unique labels 
showing their required ingredients and 
aging. They count towards awards and 
goals unless otherwise stated. Their label 
is on the reverse side of their 
recipe token.
 is used to denote either sell value or money more generally. Where 
it symbolizes having, acquiring, or discounting money, it will include 
language saying so in addition to the icon. Where it exists on its own, it 
denotes sell value.
DISTILL PHASE EXAMPLE: VODKA 
DISTILL PHASE EXAMPLE: RUM 
SHUFFLE
Most new distilleries make 
non-aged spirits in order 
to bring in quick income, 
while others are aging in 
the warehouse.
Take 5 money 
from general 
supply
Only way to 
claim signature 
ingredient
Discard to 
respective piles. 
Take any card 
from truck.
Free from either 
market. Refill 
premium.
Free recipe cube 
of any tier. Place 
on your clipboard.
Free from either 
market. Refill 
premium.
Free from 
premium market. 
Refill.
Score Modifier Token: 
Place this token next to 
the SP track when you 
pass 50 SP. Flip it over 
when you pass 100 SP.

SELL PHASE EXAMPLE: BÁIJIU 
A player has had a batch of Báijiuˇ aging in their 
warehouse for two rounds now, and they choose 
to sell it this round. They first take the spirit 
stack, including the Clay Barrel, and reveal it.
They choose to bottle it in a Ceramic Bottle from 
their storeroom. The aging process added two 
flavor cards: Tobacco and Smoky.
Then they receive 10 money from this Báijiuˇ 
(5 from ingredients: 1 each from rye, water, 
and alcohols; 3 from the flavors; and 2 from 
the ceramic bottle).
Next, they count up the total SP from this batch: 
12 from the recipe itself, 2 from the Sorghum 
and Rye cards, and 4 from the Ceramic Bottle 
(including a 2 SP bonus for bottling a spirit from 
Asia and Oceania).
Finally, they consult their warehouse and add an 
extra 3 SP for having two flavor cards, since it is 
an aged spirit.
The end result is 21 SP, so they 
advance their scoring token that many 
spaces along the SP track.
Next, they place the Báijiuˇ label on a label bonus 
space of their choice. They choose the space that 
gives them any one free item card from a market, 
which they immediately place in their storeroom.
After that, they return all Alcohol cards to the 
alcohol deck and basic ingredients and barrel to 
the basic market. The premium ingredients are 
discarded to the truck. Flavor cards are discarded 
to the flavor card discard pile. The Ceramic Bottle 
is displayed next to their distillery board.
4. AGE PHASE
In this phase you can age spirits to increase their flavor. Aging is 
performed in turn order, but you will age all spirits in your warehouse 
on your turn. Follow these steps to age a newly distilled spirit:
	
1.	Place its spirit stack, not including the barrel, face-down on 
one of your warehouse spaces.
	
2.	Place the barrel on top of the stack face-up and place the 
spirit label on top of the barrel.
	
3.	Draw the top card of the flavor deck and, without looking at it, 
add it face-down to the bottom of the spirit stack.
IMPORTANT: If you distill an aged spirit during the final round of the game, 
you must age it and you will not be able to sell it this game. You will, however, 
receive SP for having it in your warehouse at the end of the game.
To age a spirit in your warehouse that was distilled in an earlier round: draw 
the top card of the flavor deck and, without looking at it, add it face-down to 
the bottom of that spirit stack. 
Once a spirit is barreled and being aged in the warehouse, players may look at 
the contents of the spirit stack but not the face-down flavor cards.
FLAVOR CARDS: Flavor cards represent the unique flavor profile that 
your spirits acquire, usually through the aging process. They provide 
varying levels of money (between zero and three) as well as bonus SP 
when an aged spirit is sold.
Flavor cards are added secretly: you never know 
what your spirit will taste like until you’re ready to sell it!
When a spirit containing flavor cards is sold, discard the flavor cards to 
a flavor cards discard pile. If the face-down flavor card deck ever runs 
out, shuffle the flavor discard pile and create a new deck.
After everyone has either sold or aged each of their spirits, the round is over. 
Before starting the next round, do the following:
	
•	 Check for fulfilled spirit awards. If you meet the stated goal, you earn the 
amount of SP shown. Advance your scoring token that many spaces on 
the SP track. If more than one player achieves the goal in a round, divide 
the points evenly, rounding up. Once the points have been scored, flip 
over the award—it cannot be scored again.
	
•	 Offer tastings. If you did not sell a spirit this round, you can offer a 
tasting at your distillery. You may spend up to 4 SP and gain that much 
money from the supply. You cannot spend SP you do not have.
At the end of the third round, discard one of 
your distillery goals, placing it in the box, 
and keep the remaining two.
At the end of the seventh round, after 
checking for fulfilled spirit awards, the game ends and it is time for 
endgame scoring. Otherwise, advance the round marker one space 
and pass the first player token clockwise.
AGE PHASE EXAMPLE
A player has just distilled a batch of Whiskey. 
Since Whiskey has the age icon, it cannot be sold this 
round and must be aged in their warehouse first.
They also use the special ability of their American Standard Barrel, 
earning 1 money, which goes into their supply.
In the next round they can choose to sell this Whiskey or continue 
to age it (which would add another flavor card to its spirit stack).
SPIRIT AWARDS offer bonuses to players 
who meet certain objectives during the 
game. They are open to all players and 
the first player(s) to fulfill them in the 
game will earn the associated SP. 
Spirit labels in warehouses count 
towards the awards.
Experts keep tasting journals as a way 
to remember a spirit’s flavors through 
notes, diagrams, and stories. For 
gameplay, we’re having you add these 
flavor notes to your spirits for an element 
of surprise and fun around the table.
Distilleries can generate a significant portion 
of their income by offering tours, tastings, and 
direct bottle sales. For smaller craft distillers, 
this may even be the main source of income.
Báijiuˇ is the world’s bestselling and 
most consumed liquor, selling more 
than all of the world’s whisky, vodka, 
gin, rum, and tequila combined!
As a spirit ages, it interacts with the vessel, oxygen, and 
itself. It can add flavors extracted from the vessel, oxygenate 
to release harshness, create complexity, and even change 
strength depending on the surrounding humidity.
END OF ROUND
	
1.	 The player takes the entire spirit stack 
and places it face-down on one of their 
empty warehouse spaces.
	
2.	 They place the wood barrel they chose to 
age it in face-up on top of this stack and 
place the Whiskey spirit label on top.
	
3.	 Every aged spirit gains a new flavor each 
round, including those that have just been 
distilled. The player takes the top card of 
the flavor deck and places it underneath 
the spirit stack for this Whiskey without 
looking at it.

Dave wants to extend a heartfelt thanks to Emily, Eleanor, and Bennett 
for their love and support, the game design community for their 
feedback and encouragement, Jamey Stegmaier for inspiring me to 
pursue my dream through your own work and words, UW-Stout for 
the sabbatical that made this happen, Dalkeith Palace in Scotland for 
where it all began, and Laphroaig for being the best damn peated dram.
Erik would like to thank Erika Svanoe for her endless patience, Dave for 
educating him on the world of whiskey and other spirits, and UW-Stout 
for the sabbatical that allowed him to produce this amount of work—
without question, this project would have been impossible without it.
Richard would like to thank Amanda, Matthew and Lillian for their love 
and support, and all our play testers for helping us make this game the 
best it can be.
Cody would like to thank Amanda, Oriana, Anders, and Oberon for their 
love and patience, his technical writing students for thinking through 
rulebooks, and the Distilled team for their passion and brilliance.
Special Thanks to our Kickstarter Master Distillers: Jarred Coleman, 
Pip Gengenbach, Martin Heintzelman, Randal Lloyd, Marika Mataitis, 
Christina McDowell, Aaron Pope, Heather Sachs, Cedric Sicourmat, 
and Thomas Wilson.
…and finally, to every one of our 8,060 Kickstarter backers for helping 
us make this dram—I mean dream—a reality!
© 2022 Paverson Games LLC. 
Distilled is a trademark of 
Paverson Games LLC. 
All Rights Reserved.
CREDITS
	
DESIGN:	 Dave Beck
	
DEVELOPMENT:	 Richard Woods
	
ART & GRAPHIC DESIGN:	 Erik Evensen
	
RULES EDITING:	 Cody Reimer
	
SOLO MODE DESIGN:	 David Digby
	
SPIRITS CONSULTANT:	 Blake Tucker aka Dr Inkwell
	
TABLETOP SIMULATOR SCRIPTING:	 Seth Berrier
	
TABLETOPIA DESIGN:	 Dave Hutchings
	
PRINT AND PLAY DESIGN: 	 Martin Gonzalvez
	
COMMUNITY LIAISON:	 Neo Teng Whay
	
CULTURAL CONSULTANT:	 James Mendez Hodes
At the end of the game, you score additional SP from the following: 
	
•	 From any spirits left in your warehouse, counting the SP on all cards in 
the spirit stack, barrel, and recipe. 
 
 
 
 
 
	
•	 For your bottle collection displayed next to your distillery board. 
Note: Bottles without a Region do not count towards the 
set collection points.
	
•	 From any distillery upgrades with an SP value.
	
•	 For each distillery goal you have achieved. 
Note: Goals cannot be achieved by scoring zero. 
Labels in your warehouse count towards goals.
	
•	 For money you have remaining, receiving one SP for every 5 money and 
ignoring remainders (if you have 13 money, you can return 10 of it to the 
general supply for 2 SP, leaving you with 3 money).
Advance your scoring token on the SP track to show your final score.
The player who has the most SP wins the game and earns the coveted title 
of Master Distiller! In case of a tie, the tied player who has the most money 
remaining is the winner. If there is still a tie, the tied players share the victory.
Slàinte Mhath!
BOTTLE COLLECTION EXAMPLE: 
The Europe player has five displayed bottles in their 
collection: three from Europe (scoring 4 SP), and at 
least one from three different regions (scoring 5 SP), 
for a total of 9 SP. 
NOTE: distiller’s region icon 
counts as Europe because their 
distiller identity is from Europe.
ENDGAME WAREHOUSE EXAMPLE: 
The player distilled and aged a Whiskey in the final 
round of the game, and thus was unable to sell it. During 
endgame scoring, they count all SP on the cards in the 
warehouse, as well as on the recipe itself. This includes 
3 SP printed on the cards and 10 SP from the Whiskey. 
They also get 1 SP from the single flavor card, for 14 SP 
in total. The spirit will stay in the warehouse, meaning 
the player cannot claim a label bonus, although the 
label will still count towards distillery goals.
COMMONLY FORGOTTEN RULES: 
Running a distillery is hard work! It’s easy to forget a few rules from time 
to time. Here are some reminders from your fellow distillery owners:
 
	
• 	You can only purchase two cards from the basic market 
during each Market Phase.
 
	
• 	At the start of the Distill Phase you may trade one of your 
ingredient or item cards for a basic ingredient of equal or 
lesser market cost from the basic market.
 
	
• 	Remember to add one Alcohol per card in the central, 
sugar slot of your washback when distilling.
 
	
• 	It may seem strange, but you do not need to have an alcohol 
card left in the spirit stack when you distill. Your recipes only 
require certain sugars and barrel types.
 
	
• 	When a recipe has sugar types listed with a , 
it means these sugars must not be in the final spirit stack.
 
	
• 	If a spirit has the aged icon, it must be aged 
for at least one round before it can be sold.
 
	
• 	If a spirit has the non-aged icon, it must be 
bottled and sold in the same round it is distilled.
 
	
• 	You only sell one spirit at a time, but you can sell 
another when the turn comes back to you.
 
	
• 	Remember to claim your money and spirit points when selling.
	
• 	If you distill an aged spirit during the final round of the game, 
you must age it and you will not be able to sell it this game. 
You will, however, receive SP for having it in your warehouse at 
the end of the game, including 1 SP for each flavor card present.
RUNNING OUT OF CARDS: The basic ingredient 
and item cards and the Alcohol cards are 
intended to be unlimited. If a basic ingredient 
or item card is unavailable for purchase, use 
another card as a stand-in, making note of 
which card was used to represent which other. 
If there are no available Alcohol cards, remove them from aging spirits in all 
warehouses and add a coin on top of spirit stacks for each Alcohol removed 
this way. Players will receive these coins when they sell the aged spirit.
The phrase ‘Sláinte mhath’ (slan’-juh-va) on the first player token 
is Gaelic for “To your health” and is a traditional toast, especially 
while enjoying a dram of whisky. We chose to feature Gaelic since 
Distilled was inspired while traveling in Scotland. Cheers!
GAME END
IMPORTANT: As you are not selling the spirit, you will not receive the aged 
spirit flavor bonus SP, claim a label bonus, add a bottle, or receive any 
money. Instead, you receive 1 SP for each flavor card present. 
If you have at least 
one bottle from three 
different regions, 
score 5 SP.
Bottles from 
the same region
6+
SP Earned

 These provide you with customization and 
diversity to keep the play spirited. Each of 
the eight flights include seven spirits with 
different levels of prestige. 
Flights are paired with the distiller identities 
below: they provide a standard backup to 
these identities’ signature recipes. During 
setup, choose the tasting flight and then 
randomly deal each player two distiller 
identities from those paired with that flight.
The first three flights (A, B, and C) are the 
most balanced and are recommended for 
use in most games. Experienced players 
can mix up game play with the other five 
flights, which focus on a specific region or 
spirit type, or by using identities not paired 
with flights. 
TASTING FLIGHTS
TASTING FLIGHT A: 
TASTING FLIGHT B: 
Scotland, Ireland, India, 
Australia, Brazil, Jamaica, 
England, France, Korea, China
Peru, Mexico, Sweden, Italy, 
Philippines
Peru, Jamaica, Sweden, France, 
Korea
Scotland, Ireland, India, Australia, 
Mexico, Sweden, France, England, 
Italy, Philippines
PAIRS WITH: Canada, USA, Peru, 
Scotland, Ireland, India, Brazil, 
Jamaica, Mexico, England, 
Australia, China
Scotland, India, Japan, China, 
Brazil, Italy, Ireland, Korea, 
Philippines
Scotland, Ireland, India, 
Australia, Brazil, Peru, Sweden, 
England, Korea, Philippines
Jamaica, Mexico, France, Italy, 
China
TASTING FLIGHT C: 
TASTING FLIGHT D: 
Europe Spirits
TASTING FLIGHT E: 
Americas Spirits
TASTING FLIGHT F: 
Asia & Oceania 
Spirits
TASTING FLIGHT G: 
Non-Aged Spirits
TASTING FLIGHT H: 
Aged Spirits
Thanks to our Kickstarter backers, we commissioned six custom audio tracks 
specifically for Distilled. These were inspired by different regions and processes 
one might find in the world of spirits. Visit tabletopaudio.com and search 
“distilled” to load these up and play in the background while you enjoy the game!

For the Filipina distiller, we chose to highlight 
the Manila Carnival Queens, precursors to 
contemporary pageant queens. Many of these 
queens became activists, senators, lawyers, 
writers, and other high achievers of society. 
Some also served as brand ambassadors for 
national products, such as LAMBANÓG.
We knew we wanted our Jamaican distiller to 
make RUM, and it only made sense to have 
them be a pirate! Rum has a long history with 
the Caribbean, colonial North America, and the 
British Navy, and is often associated with the 
“Golden Age of Piracy,” roughly 1650–1730. 
And thus, Ruthless Ajani was born.
GIN is commonly associated with England, and 
had its origins as a medicinal aid. Its addictive 
properties and low cost swept through England, 
affecting a disproportionate number of women, 
causing a moral panic and coining the term, 
“mother’s ruin.” This historical note prompted 
the creation of abbess Mother Mary Genever.
CACHAÇA (kuh·SHAA·suh)
Country: Brazil
Cachaça must be made in Brazil from sugarcane juice 
and therefore is a type of PDO rum. Note that it is 
not made from other sugar-related by-products, like 
molasses. It can be barrel-aged, but not in the game.
PISCO (PEE·skoh)
Country: Peru
Pisco must be made in Peru or Chile from grapes 
and therefore is a type of PDO eau de vie or brandy. 
Chilean pisco is less commonly exported; Chilean law 
requires distillers to grow their own grapes. Unlike 
grappa, pisco is made from fresh grape juice.
RUM (RUM)
Rum is made from sugarcane and its by-products, 
including sugarcane juice and molasses. There is 
no international standard for production. Types 
of PDO rum include cachaça (Brazil) and rhum 
agricole (France). Jamaican rum is known for 
its funky, earthy flavors.
TEQUILA (tuh·KEE·luh)
Country: Mexico
Tequila is a PDO spirit that must be made in 
Mexico from Blue Weber Agave (Agave Tequilana). 
Colloquially, a spirit made from any agave plant 
is a mezcal. The one that was common in the town 
of Tequila became popular, and thus this spirit 
got its name.
BÁIJIU (BEYE·jyoh)
Country: China
Báijiuˇ is made in China from grains using qū, 
a mixture of mold, yeast, and bacteria, to form 
alcohol. Taste profiles vary widely by region. 
Four major styles: light aroma, strong aroma, 
rice aroma, and sauce aroma.
LAMBANÓG (LAM-ba-nog)
Country: Philippines
Lambanóg is a PDO spirit made in the Philippines 
from coconut or palm. It is often called coconut 
vodka because of its high alcohol content.
SHŌCHŪ (SHOW·choo)
Country: Japan
Shōchū is made in Japan from a variety of sources, 
but most often rice, barley, or sweet potatoes. It is 
typically low in alcohol (under 35%) and uses kōji 
in fermentation, instead of yeast. It is not widely 
exported but does have several PDO styles.
SOJU (SOH·joo) 
Country: Korea
Soju is a traditional Korean spirit made from a variety 
of starches, most often rice, wheat, or barley. It is 
typically low in alcohol (under 35%) and is one of 
the most sold beverages in the world. Flavorings are 
popular and there are recognized PDO styles.
VODKA (VAAD·kuh)
Vodka (“little water”) has roots in Russia and Poland 
and can be made from anything. Through multiple 
distillations, it loses its flavor notes and approaches 
pure ethanol. This unaged, clear spirit is “proofed” 
(mixed with water) before bottling.
AQUAVIT (AA·kwuh·veet)
Aquavit is originally a Scandinavian beverage, 
but can be made anywhere today. It is made from a 
neutral spirit infused with caraway and/or dill and other 
flavors. It can be barrel aged, but not in the game.
BRANDY (BRAN·dee)
Brandy is made from fruit and can also be called 
eau de vie. Brandy often refers to grape spirit that 
has also been aged. French PDO brandies include 
marc, cognac, and armagnac, which also include 
strict geographical requirements, but brandy can 
be made anywhere.
GIN (JIN)
Gin is a neutral spirit infused with juniper and other 
flavors. The base can be made from anything and the 
infusion can be done via a variety of methods. Gin does 
not have to be made in England, though it originated 
there and more obliquely from Holland (as genever).
GRAPPA (GRAA·puh)
Country: Europe
Grappa is a type of PDO eau de vie or brandy made 
in Europe (mostly Italy, but also in Switzerland and 
San Marino) from pomace: the spent grapes and 
stems left over from winemaking. When made in 
France, it’s called marc.
WHISK(E)Y (WIS·kee)
Whisky derives from the Gaelic word uisce (or uisge) 
meaning “water” and is a grain-based spirit that has 
been aged in oak barrels. It is spelled with the “e” in 
America and Ireland. Types of PDO whiskey include 
scotch, bourbon, and rye.
MOONSHINE (MOON·shine)
Technically, moonshine is any spirit made illegally. It 
can be made from anything since it’s unregulated. 
This 18th century British term was popularized during 
American Prohibition, but many countries have their 
own terms for illegal spirits.
The term Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) is 
used by many countries to protect local customs and 
rules for spirits (and many other regional products), 
ensuring they’re made with the quality, provenance, 
and consistency that consumers expect. A PDO is 
then unique and thus cannot be made elsewhere or 
from other materials or processes.
SPIRITS OF DISTILLED
ALL REGIONS
ASIA & OCEANIA

Like all good inheritances, the distillery bequeathed to you by your eccentric 
relative comes with several challenges and restrictions that you must meet in 
order to take ownership of the property. In particular, you’ll need to complete 
a “path” of goal cards, working from the bottom of the barrel up to the top, 
completing at least one card from each row. Each goal will either change the 
score you must achieve or provide you with an SP or money bonus.
SOLO SETUP
Follow the full game setup instructions as normal but with a few exceptions: 
	 1.	 Separate the solo goals by type: A, B, and C. Shuffle each 
type separately and then, without looking at them, lay them 
out according to figure A.
	 2.	 Set the solo goal swap card near the 
barrel-shaped goal setup in figure A. 
	 3.	 Shuffle the remaining B goal cards and 
place them face-down beside the premium 
market. Return unused A and C goal cards 
to the box.
	 4.	 Flip the cards in rows 1, 3, and 5 face-up. 
Set one of the extra scoring tokens beside 
this display, like in figure B. 
	 5.	 Choose your distiller identity from any of 
those paired with the chosen tasting flight. 
	 6.	 Complete the setup as usual, except 
include all the spirit labels for Moonshine, 
Vodka, and the seven recipes on the 
tasting flight. Ignore the distillery goals 
and spirit awards.
SOLO GAMEPLAY
The solo game plays over 7 rounds as normal, but with one modification to the 
market phase. At the end of each market phase, instead of the market clean 
up, discard the top card from the leftover B goal stack to reveal the back of the 
next card. The chart on the back of the revealed card shows which ingredients, 
items, and distillery upgrades to discard to the truck, simulating the purchases 
of another player. This replaces the usual market clean up.
For example, if you completed an A goal 
with a target score of 70, and a B goal with a 
target score of 12, you would need to score 
82 SP or higher to win, as seen in figure C.
Start with the extra scoring token next to row 
1. This marker shows your active row. You 
may complete any goal card in your active 
row as long as it is immediately beside or 
above a completed goal card. At the begin-
ning you may complete either goal in row 1.
You may complete any goal in the next row 
up from your active row as long as that goal 
is above a completed goal. When you do, 
move the extra scoring token up to this row. 
You cannot complete goals below your 
active row.
To win the solo game you must complete at least one goal from each of the 
5 rows and meet or exceed the combined target score shown on the A and 
B goals you have completed.
To complete a goal, you must achieve the target shown on it. When you complete 
a goal, place a coin on it from the general supply to mark your success, take any 
bonus money or SP provided by that goal, and then flip the two goals above it 
face-up if they were not face-up already.
Completing goals is optional, so even if you achieve the target, you do not 
have to claim the goal if you don’t want to.
Once per game, you may swap any 2 solo goal cards within the same row. 
If you do this, flip the solo swap card, which increases the target score by 5. 
Swapping can include face-down goals, which will immediately flip face-up if 
moved above a completed goal. If a swapped goal is already completed, after 
repositioning it flip any goals above it face-up.
Solo Goals come in four different categories:
	
•	 DISTILL goals require you to distill a certain kind of spirit. Distill goals may 
only be completed immediately after the spirit is distilled, and each spirit 
distilled can only be used to complete a single distill goal. 
	
•	 SELL goals require you to sell a certain kind of spirit. Sell goals may only 
be completed immediately after the spirit is sold, and each spirit sold can 
only be used to complete a single sell goal. Using a spirit for one sell goal 
means you cannot use it to satisfy another. 
	
•	 COLLECT goals require you to obtain certain things. For example, having 
certain distillery upgrades, bottles, or spirit labels (either on the bonus 
spaces or on top of a spirit stack in your warehouse). These goals can 
be completed at any point, as long as you meet their requirements. 
	
•	 EARN goals require you to complete a certain achievement within a single 
round (for example, earning a certain amount of money in a round). 
These goals are completed at the end of any round in which you meet 
their requirements. Money and SP gained from other solo goals 
achieved that round count for earn goals.
INCREASING DIFFICULTY
If you want to increase the difficulty of the solo game, use B goals in row 4 
instead of C goals. For an even greater challenge, use B goals in rows 2 and 
4 instead of C goals. In addition to using harder goals in these rows, these 
changes will raise the target score, as all B goals scored add to this.
SOLO MODE
Row 5 (2 A goals)
Row 4 (3 C goals)
Row 3 (4 B goals)
Row 2 (3 C goals)
Row 1 (2 C goals)
A
B
C
PREMIUM MARKET DISCARD EXAMPLE
On each of the B goal backs is a chart 
representing the 3 rows of face up cards 
in the premium market. 
If this B goal was revealed you would 
discard to the truck the 1st and 4th 
distillery upgrade, the 3rd and 4th 
ingredient, and the 2nd and 4th item. 
Then refill as usual.
SELL GOAL EXAMPLE
A player has just sold a Soju 
that included 3 grain sugars and 
scored 9 SP. They are up to row 
2 of the solo goals and are now 
able to score either of the two 
goals pictured, but not both, 
as the Soju can only be used to 
complete a single sell goal.

WATER
INGREDIENTS
ITEMS
REGIONS
GAMEPLAY
BOTTLE
ASIA & 
OCEANIA
ALCOHOL
CLAY
PLANT
AGED
NOT 
ALLOWED!
DISTILLERY 
UPGRADE
YEAST
METAL
GRAIN
WOOD
FLAVOR
MONEY
DISTILLER’S 
FRUIT
NON-AGED
START OF 
ROUND
Age Phase .............................................................14
Aged spirit flavor bonus .........................................13
Bottle collection ....................................................16
Bottles ...................................................................13
Commonly forgotten rules ......................................17
Components ............................................................3
Distill Phase ..........................................................11
Distiller identities .....................................................8
Distillery boards .......................................................7
Distillery upgrades ...................................................9
End of round ..........................................................15
Flavor cards ...........................................................14
Game end ..............................................................16
Game overview ........................................................7
Game setup .............................................................4
Items & Ingredients .................................................9
Market clean up .....................................................10
Market Phase ........................................................10
Player setup ............................................................6
Recipe cubes .........................................................10
Recipes .............................................................8, 11
Sell Phase .............................................................13
Signature recipes .....................................................8
Solo mode .............................................................22
Spirit awards .........................................................15
Spirit label bonuses ...............................................13
Spirit labels ...........................................................12
Spirit stack ............................................................11
Start of round ........................................................10
Tasting flights ........................................................18
Tastings .................................................................15
Trade step .............................................................11
Yeast & Water powers ............................................10
Start of Round perform effects
1. Market Phase (in player order)
	 • 	Take turns in clockwise order to purchase 
	
	1 card or cube per turn, until all pass
	 • 	Limit of 2 basic market purchases per player, per round
 Market Clean Up: Discard last card of each 
 premium market row to truck and replenish; 
 last 2 cards for 2P game
2. Distill Phase (concurrent)
	 • 	Place cards in washback
	 • 	Add 1 per card in sugar slot
	 • 	Distill spirit by shuffling all cards together 
	
	and removing top and bottom cards
	 • 	Add barrel and claim spirit label
3. Sell Phase (in player order)
	 • 	Take turns in clockwise order to sell one spirit per turn
	 • 	Score and and claim spirit label bonus
4. Age Phase (in player order)
	 • 	Place spirits distilled this round in warehouse
	 • 	Add 1 card to each spirit in warehouse
End of Round
	 • 	Check for fulfilled spirit awards
	 • 	If did not sell, may hold tasting: Up to -4 = 4
	 • 	Move round marker forward
	 • 	Pass first player token clockwise
	 • 	At end of 3rd round, discard down to 2 goals
3. Distillery Upgrades 
4. Distillery Goals
5. Money at 5 : 1 ratio
Round down, keep the 
remainder as tie breaker
After 7th Round, score points from:
1. Spirits still in warehouse
	 • 	Count on ingredient cards, barrel and recipe, 	
	
	
	plus 1 per card. Note: as you are not selling, 
	
	you do not receive or Aged Spirit Flavor Bonus
2. Bottle Collection
	 • 	Same Region: 
	 • 	At least 1 from 3 different Regions: 5
2 = 2
3 = 4
4 = 7
5 = 10
6+ = 15
SEQUENCE OF A ROUND
INDEX
END GAME SCORING
ICON GLOSSARY