Designer : Jean-Louis ROUBIRA Illustrator : Marie CARDOUAT
Publisher : Régis BONNESSÉE
Rulebook
“When we were kids, what could be more universal and fun than our wildest 
hide-and-seek games? With this game, I wished to allow everyone to reconnect 
with their inner child…
 How do I use a word or a sentence to put my gaming partners on the right 
track, while maintaining enough ambiguity? A space of emotions and surprises, 
Dixit has been able to captivate so many, from the youngest to the not-so-young, 
taking us to the limits of our imagination. But above all, Dixit brings us closer 
together. Perhaps because for us, Image is fundamental.”
Credits 2021: Designer: Jean-Louis Roubira • Illustrator: Marie Cardouat • Head of Studio: Mathieu Aubert • Project 
Manager: Laurent Contios • Game development: Valentin Gaudicheau • Artistic Director: Maëva Da Silva • 
Lay-out and ergonomic: Thomas Dutertre • Graphic design: Allison Machepy & Ophélie Pimbert-Gris • Production 
Manager: Alexandra Soporan • International Sales: Maximilien Da Cunha • Head of Marketing: Laurent Contios • 
Communication and events: Isabelle Doll & Paul Neveur • Back office: Marion Ludovici & Pascale Belot
Designer’s note

 
 
Game overview
Setup
During each turn, a different player plays the role of the “storyteller” 
They score points 
 by making the other players 
 guess their card thanks 
to a clue they give them. But this clue must be subtle because, if everyone finds 
their card, the storyteller does not score at all! All the other players score 
 
by finding the storyteller’s card and by attracting other players’ votes thanks to 
a smart decoy card choice.
The game ends when one or more players reach or exceed 30 
. The player 
with the most 
 is the winner.
After setup, the first player who finds a clue to form a riddle becomes the storyteller 
for the first turn.
The storyteller looks at the 6 cards in their hand. They select one that inspires them (without revealing it), from which they say a clue aloud (a word or phrase, 
see ‘Advice for the storyteller’ on the next page). Each other player then selects, from the 6 cards in their hand, the card that they feel best illustrates the clue 
given by the storyteller. Then each player secretly gives the chosen card to the storyteller, who shuffles all the cards collected with their own.
 Create the riddle
 Solve the riddle
 End of turn
The storyteller randomly places the cards face up around the game board next to the indicated card slots (the numbers on the slots must remain visible). 
Example: with 6 players, the storyteller places the 6 cards in the slots numbered from 1 to 6.
The other players’ goal is to find the storyteller’s card. Each player (except the storyteller) takes their voting dial, then secretly turns the wheel to 
display the number of the card that they think is the storyteller’s card. Players cannot vote for their own card. When everyone has voted, the players 
simultaneously reveal their voting dials and place them on the cards they refer to.
Then the scoring phase starts. The storyteller reveals which card is theirs, and counts the number of votes it has received:
◆ This rulebook 
◆ 84 Dixit cards
◆ 8 voting dials
◆ 8 wooden rabbit pawns
Components
If some players voted for the storyteller’s card, 
but not all of them:
In addition, each player 
(except the storyteller) scores 
1 bonus 
 for each vote received 
on their own card.
Players move their rabbit pawns along the scoring track one space per 
 scored. 
All of the cards used during the turn are placed face up in a pile away from the game to form the discard pile. Each player draws one card from the draw 
pile to have 6 cards in their hand again. If there are not enough cards left in the draw pile to deal to all players, the remaining cards and the discard pile 
are shuffled to form the new draw pile.
The player to the left of the storyteller becomes the new storyteller for the next turn.
End of game: If at the end of a turn, one or more players have reached or exceeded 30 
 on the scoring track, the game ends immediately. The player 
who has the most 
 is the winner. In the case of a tie, the concerned players share the victory.
1 scoring track
8 card slots
1 players’ aid 
(Reminder of how to score)
The storyteller scores 3 
Players who voted for the storyteller’s card 
also score 3 
The others do not score points 
A
B
C
◆ 1 game board composed of:
How to play
/
If all players voted for the storyteller’s card 
or if no player has voted for the storyteller’s card:
 
The storyteller does not score points. 
The other players each score 2 

 
The clue can be a sentence consisting of as many words as desired. It 
can be invented or borrowed from existing works (poetry, song, film, 
proverb...). The clue can even be sung, mimed or be an onomatopoeia.
If the clue is too easy (for example, too descriptive) or too difficult (too 
abstract or personal), the storyteller may not score any points. They must 
find the right balance, so that at least one player, but not all of them, can 
find their card. It may not seem easy at first, but inspiration comes quickly!
Example 1: the storyteller says “It’s MY birthday!”.
The card reminds them of someone who is in the 
spotlight and around whom all the attention is focused, 
like on a birthday. They hope that some players will 
follow their train of thought!
Example 2: the storyteller says “Rebirth”.
This card reminds them of life going on and passing 
from generation to generation. They feel that this 
word is a well-balanced clue, so that their card can 
be guessed without being too obvious. They hope 
they got it right!
Each player chooses a color, then takes the corresponding dial and 
rabbit pawn.
Each player places their rabbit pawn on the starting space of the 
scoring track. This pawn indicates the number of 
 earned by the 
player during the game.
Shuffle all 84 cards and deal 6 of them face down to each player.
Make a draw pile with the remaining cards.
Players play with 7 cards in hand instead of 6.
 To create the riddle, the players 
 (except the storyteller) each select 2 cards instead of 1, so there will be 5 cards 
displayed around the board, including the storyteller’s card. At the end of the turn, they complete their hands by drawing 
2 cards instead of 1. 
 During the resolution phase, players 
(except the storyteller) still score 1 bonus 
 if they have received a vote on 
their own card (regardless of which card).
The rules remain otherwise unchanged.
Playing with 3 players
Pink 
Pink is the storyteller for this turn, so they score 3 
Example of a 6-player scoring phase
Advice for the storyteller
 = 3 
 = 5 
 = 3 
 = 1 
 = 0 
 = 0 
"Rebirth"
At the end of this turn the players scored respectively:
Blue
Blue and Green
Green have found the storyteller’s card, so they 
each score 3 
Violet
Violet, Yellow
Yellow and Red
Red did not find the storyteller’s card, 
so they do not score points 
Red
Red voted for Violet
Violet’s card. So Violet 
Violet scores 1 bonus 
Violet
Violet and Yellow 
Yellow voted for Blue
Blue’s card. So Blue 
Blue scores 
2 bonus 
Some players voted for the storyteller’s card, but not all of them.
A
B
C

The d
rea
m 
goes on wi
th the 
ex
pans
ions!
QUEST
Dreamlike search 
for innocence
JOURNEY
Mysterious and 
enchanting voyage
ORIGINS
Genesis of 
fantastic worlds
DAYDREAMS
Evocative 
waking reveries
MEMORIES
Dazzling childhood 
souvenirs
REVELATIONS
Unveiling fairy grace
HARMONIES
Dawn of 
natural balance
ANNIVERSARY
Where all previous 
worlds meet
MIRRORS
Each expansion contains an original universe in 84 unique oversized cards...
... and more to come!
A bittersweet reflection 
of our society