page 2 
Djambi 
The chessboard of Machiavelli 
 
Rules of the game 
(based on the original in French) 
 
Designer’s Note 
 
Djambi was invented by Jean Anesto in 1975 to illustrate, using amazing looking 
pieces (these designed by Jean-Claude Adelmand) and carefully crafted rules of play, 
all wrongdoings in politics. If you find that we have missed some shadowy areas in 
our attempt, you probably have the makings of an excellent Djambi player. 
 
Table of Contents 
 
1.0 Overview…………………………………………………………………3 
1.1 The Players……………………………………………………………….3 
1.2 The Pieces………………………………………………………………...3 
1.3 The Labyrinth…………………………………………………………….4 
1.4 The Balance………………………………………………………………4 
1.5 Turns……………………………………………………………………..4 
1.6 Moving Pieces…………………………………………………………… 5 
2.0 Details…………………………………………………………………… 7 
2.1 The Board………………………………………………………………...7 
2.2 Two Types of Pieces…………………………………………………….. 8 
2.3 The Movers……………………………………………………………… 9 
2.3.1 Provocateur……………………………………………………………. 9 
2.3.2 Necromobile………………………………………………………….. 10 
2.4 The Killers………………………………………………………………11 
2.4.1 Assassin………………………………………………………………. 11 
2.4.2 Militants……………………………………………………………….12 
2.4.3 Reporter……………………………………………………………… 13 
2.4.4 Leader…………………………………………………………………14 
3.0 Powers of the Labyrinth………………………………………………... 17 
3.1 Benefits to the Leader…………………………………………………... 17 
3.2 Attacking within the Labyrinth…………………………………………. 18 
3.2.2 Killing a Leader in Power……………………………………………... 18 
4.0 Three-player games: The Hostage………………………………………. 20 
4.1 Hostage situation……………………………………………………….. 20 
5.0 Showtime………………………………………………………………..20 

 
 
 
 
page 3 
 
 
Overview 
 
1.1. The Players 
 
The public is aware, or at least suspects, that politics is not the most pristine of 
pastimes. The former United States President, Ronald Reagan, observed “It has been 
said that politics is the second oldest profession. I have learned that it bears a striking 
resemblance to the first.” As an additional example, it is also most instructive to 
visualize political parties as akin to rowdy schoolboys scuffling on the playground, 
who when confronted by a higher authority simply offer, “If you think I look bad, 
you should see the other guy.” 
Each player leads one of the parties in the running. All have the same goal: to 
conquer and obtain absolute power by all means (conflict, coalitions, negotiations, 
intoxication), that is, to eliminate all the leaders of the other parties. But, if the 
exercise of absolute power is a solitary pleasure, its conquest is a team sport: the key 
to success relies on knowing how to unite to gain power. But to reign without sharing, 
one must also know how to betray at the proper time... 
If our allies prove treacherous, we can always start again with other partners: 
That's why four players best fill the closed field of the game. With three players, the 
clash is somewhat cruder but remains fertile in twists. With two, it is better to play 
Shogi. 
 
1.2. The Pieces 
 
To achieve his goals, each player has the conventional weapons of the political 
fight: the manipulation, the provocation, recovery, scandal, activism, and political 
crime. As many archetypes represented by the different pieces constitute his party. 
The race for power has nothing to do with the traditional props of visible 
extravagance: gala dinners and famous entertainers. Physical liquidation threatens each 
of these coins. Everybody knows that in politics the dead are often as cumbersome as 
the living; therefore, any killed piece remains on the ground: the corpse is, simply, 
returned after the deed. This is indicated by turning the piece upside down. Everyone 
can then appropriate it. Killed pieces all share the same color: that of impotence. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 4 
1.3. The Labyrinth 
 
The central square, also called the Labyrinth, is a springboard, not a shelter. 
All pieces can cross the Labyrinth without stopping there when it is empty. 
Only a party leader can occupy it permanently: it is the seat of the legal power, 
the traditional springboard towards the absolute power. Indeed, the party that has 
managed to place its leader therein enjoys a real control over the political 
checkerboard as will be seen later. 
Even though a leader established on the central square enjoys a preponderance 
of influence, he does not inherit immunity from all harm, because most of the 
members of the opposing parties can kill or dislodge him. 
The Labyrinth is off limits for returning the corpse of a killed piece, with 
the lone exception detailed in section 3.2.1, Killing a Leader in Power when the Leader is 
killed by a Reporter. 
 At the beginning of the game, the race for power is not always as lucrative as 
one might think. Opposition unites opponents like hungry wolves to the hunt. 
 
1.4. The Balance 
 
In the course of the game with each new development, alliances may be formed 
or dissolved publicly or in secret at the whim of the players and at any moment. The 
players make wonderful offers, solemn oaths, vile threats, cryptic pronouncements, 
and veiled intimidations in the presence of their opponents or whispered to particular 
players. 
No rule limits these public or occult maneuvers. Bullying, intoxication, and 
betrayal are not here more than elsewhere, proscribed ... 
It is recommended to avoid attacks ad hominem during the assessments which 
tend to hold to account companies driven off the paths of virtue, “per qualque via 
scellerata” (for some wicked way). In the end, however, it is better to ascend on the 
corpses of others, for if they are yet alive they may still grasp at your ankles. 
 
1.5. Turns 
 
Red starts, then blue, then yellow, then green, and so on counterclockwise. 
As long as the central square, or the seat of power is vacant, the players each 
intervene in turn by moving a piece left alive in their party. As soon as a Leader 
moves to power (by entering the Labyrinth), his party plays again after each other 
player. As soon as he gives it up (which can be a very profitable maneuver in some 
cases), he resumes his turn in the normal order of play: red, blue, yellow, and green. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 5 
1.6. Moving Pieces 
 
The pieces are alive and may move in their turn. All the pieces move like the 
Queen of chess, except the militant whose course is limited to two squares. 
 
 
 
The race to power is not a game of checkers: no piece can jump another. They 
move only in diagonals or in open columns; however, any living or dead piece is an 
impassable obstacle. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 6 
When the pieces are taken (killed), they are returned to the field as corpses 
(turn them over to indicate they are now dead and may not vote except in certain 
districts). The backs of all the pieces are the same. Any piece taken is returned by its 
executioner and replaced on the field. 
Thus the dead, once placed on the ground, belong to everyone and can be 
handled by all the players. All the dead without exception end up on the ground. 
The general action of a piece being played is to move and then either kill, 
relocate, both kill and relocate, or move only. Each piece follows specific rules that 
determine what it can do, following the pattern suggested by its occupation. 
There are special considerations when manipulating or killing within the 
Labyrinth. A dedicated section follows the detailed description of the pieces to 
address them, as these considerations rely on a solid understanding of how the pieces 
move normally before one can apprehend why we need the exceptions in this 
situation and how to properly execute them. No pun intended, but hopefully it 
provides a humorous interlude from these tedious rules. 
 

 
 
 
 
page 7 
2. Details 
 
2.1. The Board 
 
The board has 81 squares. 
The central square is the Labyrinth, the seat of power. When a living Leader 
occupies and controls it he receives a bonus, which consists of earning an extra turn 
to play after each player except himself. If only two players remain, he gains two 
consecutive moves on his turn. 
The other squares are the field, or may also be referred to as the ground. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initial piece setup. 
Note the Labyrinth 
in the central square. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 8 
2.2. Two Types of Pieces 
 
The game consists of 36 pieces (9 pieces x 4 players), namely: 
 
1 Leader, 
1 Assassin, 
1 Reporter, 
1 Necromobile, 
1 Provocateur and 
4 Militants, per player. 
 
The pieces within each party comprise two general types: movers and killers. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 9 
2.3. The Movers 
 
The Movers: Those who do not kill. 
 
2.3.1. Provocateur 
 
 
The Provocateur does not kill: he is a manipulator, a mover of 
the living. The Provocateur takes the place of a living piece not 
belonging to his own camp. The piece taken is placed without 
being killed, so remaining alive and able to subsequently act, on 
any free square of the field, where the placement benefits the 
party's interest. The Provocateur cannot, in this game, 
manipulate his own parties’ pieces. This is the most useful piece 
at the beginning of the game. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 10 
2.3.2. Necromobile 
 
 
The Necromobile does not kill: he is a salvager, a mover of the 
dead. He uses, for the benefit of his party, any corpse lying on 
the ground, taking its place. The corpse is then placed, 
remaining dead without the possibility of zombie animation or 
network syndication, on any free square of the field, where the 
placement benefits the party's interest. A corpse can be either an 
obstacle or a guarantee. 
 
The Necromobile may thus clear a path for a friendly piece or 
block an opponent. Being an essential piece particularly at the 
end of the game when the dead outnumber the living, it is 
advisable to avoid unnecessary risk with him. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 11 
2.4. The Killers 
 
The Killers: Those who kill. 
 
2.4.1. Assassin 
 
 
As the name suggests, he may kill any enemy piece. But he 
cannot disguise his crime by placing the corpse wherever it 
seems beneficial to him on the ground. Instead, his victim takes 
his place from which he started his move. A powerful 
instrument, 
the 
Assassin 
leaves 
traces 
and 
creates 
embarrassment. 
 
When the Assassin kills, he takes the place of a coin and the one 
killed is then placed in the starting square from where the 
Assassin moved from. For this is a political assassin, not a ninja, 
more skilled in making a mess than in secrecy. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 12 
2.4.2. Militants 
 
 
These eternal sacrificers advance with counted steps. The 
Militant has a course limited to two squares (minimum one 
square). The Militant can cross the empty Labyrinth. Their 
limited march makes them tools that parties use happily, alive 
for mischief or dead as martyrs. 
 
These unheralded but courageous and dedicated activists to the 
Cause can kill any piece on the field, including a Leader. To kill 
they take the place of a piece, which is then returned and its 
corpse placed on any open square of the board except the 
Labyrinth. However, he is forbidden to kill a Leader occupying 
the Labyrinth as Militants avoid the spotlight of power, 
preferring to ply their disruptions in places which grant a 
measure of obscurity. They love the cameras but want to retain 
their anonymity. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 13 
2.4.3. Reporter 
 
 
A living embodiment of scandal, the Reporter does not kill 
directly, it splashes destruction round about. The Reporter can 
only act after a trip. When he has finished his course, he can at 
that point annihilate an opponent's piece that is on one of the 
four squares that have a common side with the one he 
occupies. The Reporter does not take the place of the killed 
piece, and the victim’s corpse is not moved. 
 
For a Reporter to move and to kill, it must be done during a 
single turn of play. These two actions cannot be spread over 
two turns. If in a turn, the Reporter moves without killing, he 
must, on his next turn, move again before he may fulfill his 
toxic role once more. 
 
If the Reporter was to be manipulated by a Provocateur he 
cannot act on the piece contiguous to the square where he was 
parachuted, but will have to move again to regain his poisonous 
effect. The Reporter acts only at the end of long orchestrated 
movements conducted by his own hand. 
 

 
 
 
 
page 14 
 
2.4.4. Leader 
 
 
The Leader is the most important piece on the board for a 
player’s party. Should he be lost, the game is lost. The first 
great irony is that he must risk exposure in order to gain 
superior power against the other parties. 
 
The Leader can kill any piece occupying the field, then returns 
his victim’s corpse to any free square on the board where the 
placement benefits the party's interest. 
 
Although the Leader may kill if necessary, his ambition is 
different and his loss irretrievable. The Leader is the only piece 
that can install his team in power. For this, he must first place 
himself on a column or a diagonal leading to the central square 
(also called the Labyrinth). Upon entering the Labyrinth, he 
ascends to the seat of power. This provides a significant, 
though not absolute, superiority. The section “Powers of the 
Labyrinth” explains these advantages in detail. 
 
To defend himself, the leader in power can then kill with his 
own hands or have this task carried out by his party associates. 
By abandoning the Labyrinth to enjoy a punitive expedition, 
the Leader also loses all privileges that are attached to that 
location. He risks direct attacks on his person, in addition to 
attracting the vengeful attention of the party that has just 
beheaded. The real trick is how to take power ... and keep it. 
 
In such cases, the best solution is often to place (or if it is not 
suggested to an allied party to do so by proxy), a dead or living 
piece between the two Leaders. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 15 
 
 
Here are examples of the Leader killing, then placing the 
corpses to protect from Yellow. Note that an attack on Green 
leaves Red open to be attacked by Blue, and an attack on Blue 
leaves Red open to be attacked by Green. Be careful out there. 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 16 
 
Death of a Leader 
 
The player who directly kills a Leader adversary appropriates his pieces which 
become his satellites. The player whose Leader is killed is eliminated from the game at 
once. 
The second great irony is that if a Leader becomes completely immobilized, 
fully encircled by corpses either friend or foe that prevent him from moving, and does 
not have a remaining Necromobile to rescue him by moving the surrounding dead to 
a more favorable place of rest, he likewise perishes and is eliminated from the game. 
But the forces of a Leader who perishes by encirclement become satellites only 
when a Leader first occupies the Labyrinth or already occupies it following the 
encirclement. While waiting for devolution (transfer of control), the other players 
have no ownership over the pieces of the encircled Leader. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 17 
3. Powers of the Labyrinth 
 
3.1. Benefits to the Leader 
 
When a Leader occupies the Labyrinth, he gains several additional favorable abilities. 
 
 He gains the ability to move after each of the other party’s turns, not just 
once in the regular sequence of red, blue, yellow, and green. 
 The Leader who first occupies the Labyrinth, becomes the owner of the 
living parts of the encircled Leader(s), if there are some, which become his 
satellites. 
 The encirclement has no effect on a Leader occupying the Labyrinth (on the 
contrary, it is a guarantee...). 
 
While in the Labyrinth, the Leader may not be attacked by Militants. However, there 
are other unsavory characters that can, which is dealt with in the next section. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 18 
3.2. Attacking within the Labyrinth 
 
3.2.1. Killing a Leader in Power 
 
The Leader tends to seize the Labyrinth and to stay there to take power and 
keep it. If another Leader kills the Leader in power in a direct engagement, his dead 
body must be placed on any free square of the field and the victor becomes the new 
Leader in power. 
Special considerations are laid out here to prevent difficulties that would 
otherwise result from non-Leaders attacking a Leader in the Labyrinth. 
The Assassin, the Provocateur, and the Necromobile must enter the Labyrinth 
in order to act on the Leader stationed there. This triggers a unique sequence to 
ensure that no non-Leader remains on the seat of power. Any of these pieces must 
make an immediate additional move within the turn to leave the Labyrinth. 
The Assassin can kill a Leader occupying the Labyrinth. After displacing the 
Leader he must then make an immediate additional move within the turn to leave the 
Labyrinth before placing the Leader’s corpse back on the field. 
The Provocateur can move a Leader occupying the Labyrinth. After displacing 
the Leader he must then make an immediate additional move within the turn to leave 
the Labyrinth before placing the Leader (still living) back on the field. 
The Necromobile can move a Leader’s corpse occupying the Labyrinth. After 
displacing the Leader’s corpse he must then make an immediate additional move 
within the turn to leave the Labyrinth before placing the Leader’s corpse back on the 
field. 
The Reporter can kill a Leader occupying the Labyrinth. If the report is 
conducted adjacent to the Labyrinth, this results in a corpse of Leader, immobilized in 
the central square. Only a Necromobile will then be able to unlock the Labyrinth. The 
Necromobile must then make an immediate additional move within the turn as 
described above to leave the Labyrinth. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 19 
At the near-certain risk of appearing repetitive, here is the sequence on how to 
evacuate the Labyrinth after aggression on a Leader by a non-Leader. The respect of 
this sequence avoids scabrous situations, such as an Assassin in power... 
 
1. Action (kill or move the Leader or a Leader corpse) 
 
2. Exit the Labyrinth using an additional move with the provision that the piece may 
not kill or relocate any piece at this time, as it has already done so when it entered 
the Labyrinth. This is a necessary step to evacuate any non-Leader from the seat of 
power. 
 
3. The player places the Leader, dead or alive, on the field. The corpse of a dead 
Leader clutters the Labyrinth following a Reporter action: only a Necromobile can 
unlock this situation of a puppet power moldering in his mausoleum. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
page 20 
4. Three-player games: The Hostage 
 
4.1. Hostage situation 
 
Three-player games: The Hostage 
A camp is held hostage: the pieces cannot act on their own and have no power 
of death. 
On the other hand, hostages can be manipulated, killed, and placed by the three 
players according to their strategy and in accordance with the general rule. 
If the Hostage Leader were to be manipulated and placed in the Labyrinth, he 
only gets the appearance of power because the puppet only serves to obstruct and 
neutralize the seat of power. 
 
5. Showtime 
 
That's it, the room is up, the curtain may rise, the four parties are encamped in their 
positions within the closed arena. Whether by election, natural selection, or 
dereliction, the adversaries will compete for either the love or blind acceptance of the 
people. For power is an end in itself. 
 
 
 
 
 
This game is, as far as I can determine, in the Public Domain, and links are freely available to 
download board and piece images. Red Boar Studios has simply made these graphics and a few 
updates available in physical boards (high-quality vinyl) and pieces (flat-back buttons).