90,000 B.C. — A great ice age is fast approaching. 
Another titanic struggle for global supremacy has un-
wittingly commenced between the varying animal 
species. 
Dominant Species is a game that abstractly recreates 
a tiny portion of ancient history: the ponderous en-
croachment of an ice age and what that entails for the 
living creatures trying to adapt to the slowly-changing 
earth. 
Each player will assume the role of one of six major 
animal classes—mammal, reptile, bird, amphibian, 
arachnid or insect. Each begins the game more or less 
in a state of natural balance in relation to one another. 
But that won’t last: It is indeed “survival of the fittest”. 
Through wily action pawn placement, players will 
strive to become dominant on as many different ter-
rain tiles as possible in order to claim powerful card 
effects. Players will also want to propagate their in-
dividual species in order to earn victory points for 
their particular animal. Players will be aided in these 
endeavors via speciation, migration and adaptation 
actions, among others. 
All of this eventually leads to the end game – the final 
ascent of the ice age – where the player having ac-
cumulated the most victory points will have his animal 
crowned the Dominant Species. 
But somebody better become dominant quickly, be-
cause it’s getting mighty cold….
Game Design by Chad Jensen
Introduction
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
1011
RULES OF PLAY

Page 2
Table of contents
Game Components. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Game Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Glossary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Game Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Earth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Elements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Draw Bag
Matching Elements
Endangered Species
Dominance
Species. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Gene Pool
Victory Point Track. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Action Display. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Planning Phase. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Execution Phase. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Initiative. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Adaptation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Regression. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Abundance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Wasteland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Depletion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Glaciation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Speciation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Wanderlust. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Migration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Competition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Domination. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Optional Rules for 2- and 3-player Games. . . . . . . . . . . 17
Optional (Random) Earth Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
The Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Survival Card
Dominance Cards
Reset Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Extinction
Endgame. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Throughout this booklet you will see numerous shaded 
boxes such as this one. These boxes are filled with examples, 
clarifications, play hints, design notes, and other assorted 
wisdom in order to help ease you along.
Game components
●this 20-page rulebook
●one game board
●six animal displays
●27 cards—1 “Survival” and 26 “Dominance”
●31 large and 12 small hexagonal tiles used to create “earth”
●330 wooden cubes representing the “species” belonging 
to the six animal classes
●60 wooden cylinders used for the animals’ “action pawns”
●60 wooden cones used as “domination” markers for the 
animals
●120 round markers representing the earth’s resources, 
called “elements”
●6 square markers used to show each animal’s “initiative” 
(turn order during the Planning Phase)
●one cloth bag
Game overview
The large hexagonal tiles are used throughout the game to 
create an ever-expanding interpretation of earth as it might 
have appeared a thousand centuries ago. The smaller tun-
dra tiles will be placed atop the larger tiles – converting 
them into tundra in the process – as the ice age encroaches.
The cylindrical action pawns (or “AP”s) drive the game. 
Each AP will allow a player to perform the various actions 
that can be taken—such as speciation, environmental 
change, migration or glaciation. After being placed on the 
action display during the Planning Phase, an AP will trig-
ger that particular action for the owning player during the 
Execution Phase.
Generally, players will be trying to enhance their own 
animal’s survivability while simultaneously trying to hin-
der that of their opponents’—hopefully collecting valuable 
victory points (or “VP”s) along the way. The various cards 
will aid in these efforts, giving players useful one-time abili-
ties or an opportunity for recurring VP gains.
Throughout the game, species cubes will be added to, 
moved about in, and removed from the tiles in play (the 
“earth”). Element disks will be added to and removed from 
both animals and earth. 
When the game ends, players will conduct a final scoring 
of each tile—after which the player controlling the animal 
with the highest VP total wins the game. 

Page 3
Glossary
Action Pawns (APs)—The set of wooden cylin-
ders that players will use each turn to mark the 
actions they wish to perform.
Animal—Mammal, reptile, bird, amphibian, arachnid or in-
sect. One of the six animal classes that each player will be 
representing throughout the game. Each animal class is rep-
resented on earth by a set of like-colored species cubes. Each 
animal has an animal display and an initiative marker.
Bonus 
VPs—
Some 
actions 
and 
card 
ef-
fects call for a 
player to earn 
“bonus VPs”. To earn bonus VPs, refer to the Bonus Points 
Track located in the bottom left of the game board. The top 
row of the Bonus Points Track lists the count that the action 
or card effect is checking – for example, how many tundra 
tiles are occupied by an animal during the Survival action 
(see page 20) – while the square directly below this number 
in the bottom row gives the amount of VPs gained based 
on that count.
Dominance Cards—The set of 26 
cards that a player will choose from 
whenever a tile is scored where their 
animal is dominant. Dominance 
Cards grant a player one-time ef-
fects. One of these cards – “Ice Age” 
– will trigger the end of the game. 
The “Survival” Card is not a Domi-
nance Card and has its own separate 
set of rules (see page 20).
Dominant / Dominance—Having at least one 
species present on a tile where your animal 
matches more elements than that of any other 
animal with species present on that same tile.
Earth—The group of tiles placed in the hex grid portion 
of the board. Players will place elements and their animals’ 
species and dominance markers onto the various tiles mak-
ing up the earth.
Element—Grass, 
grub, meat, seed, 
sun and water. 
These 
round 
markers – or “disks” – represent the resources the various 
animals require to thrive. Elements are placed on the ani-
mal displays to show “need” and on earth to show “supply”. 
When on earth, elements are placed on the corners of tiles—
in this manner, a single element disk can be present on up 
to three different tiles simultaneously.
Endangered—Any species in play on a tile wherein none 
of that tile’s elements match those of the player’s animal (or 
if the tile is devoid of elements altogether).
Food Chain—Used to break ties 
when scoring a tile during a Domi-
nation action, among other things. 
In top-down order – best-to-worst – 
the food chain is: 
●Mammal
●Reptile
●Bird
●Amphibian
●Arachnid
●Insect
Initiative Markers—The set of six 
square markers used on the Initiative 
track to determine the order of place-
ment during each Planning Phase.
Matching—The number of element “A” on a player’s animal 
display times the number of that same element “A” on a tile 
occupied by that player’s species. To this is added matching 
element “B”, matching element “C”, etc. to arrive at a total 
number of matching elements of all types.
See the graphic example on page 7.
Species—Each small wooden cube on earth rep-
resents one species. Each like-colored set of cubes 
represent the various species belonging to a sin-
gle animal.
Terrain—Tundra, mountain, desert, forest, jungle, savan-
nah, wetland or sea. Each tile making up the earth is one of 
these eight terrain types.
Tile—The large and small hex-
agonal pieces representing the 
various terrain types. These are 
used to initially create – then 
during the game to add to – 
the earth’s playing surface.
Victory Point (VP)—Collected during the game by each 
animal. Highest VP total determines final winner.
Swap an element disk on 
your animal with one of 
your choice from the 
draw bag.
Food Chain
Reptile
Bird
Arachnid
Insect
Amphibian
Mammal
9+
9+
Quantity:
Victory points:
Bonus Points Table

Page 4
Game Setup
The Board
Place the board – face up! – in the center of the table.
The Animals
Have each player choose the animal he would like to 
play. Give each player the animal display matching their 
choice. Alternately, you can assign one animal display 
to each player at random. 
See page 17 for a suggested alternate method of 
assigning animals if there are only 2 or 3 players.
In reverse Initiative order – that is, insects first, then 
arachnids, then amphibians, etc. – players place their 
animal’s square initiative marker into the boxes under-
neath the “Initiative” tag. 
If there are fewer than six players, one or more of the 
right-most boxes in this section will remain vacant 
throughout the game.
Place any unassigned animal displays – along with their 
initiative markers – back in the game box: they will not 
be used. 
The Tiles
Place one large tile belonging to each of the seven 
non-tundra terrain types into their assigned positions 
in the center of the hex grid. Place a tundra tile atop 
the sea tile.
Place the eleven remaining tundra tiles in a face up 
stack on the “Glaciation Tiles” section of the board.
Flip the remaining 24 large tiles face down and shuf-
fle them up in any manner desired. Create three (face 
down) stacks of 8 large tiles each. Place these stacks 
on the three “Wanderlust Tiles” sections of the board. 
Turn the top-most tile of each of these stacks face up.
The Cards
Set the Survival Card off to the side for now.
Remove the Ice Age card from the deck of Dominance 
Cards. Shuffle the remaining 25 Dominance Cards to-
gether. Place the Ice Age card face down next to the 
board. Put the shuffled Dominance Cards face down 
atop this card to form a draw pile. 
Draw the top five cards of this draw pile and place them 
face up in the “Available Dominance Cards” section of 
the game board.
The elements
Take two of each of the six element types and place them 
on the tiles of earth as indicated on the board. 
Place these element disks so that they slightly overlap each 
of the tiles that meet at that intersection.
Gather up the rest of the elements and form a draw pool 
by placing them into the cloth bag provided.
Randomly draw 4 elements from the bag—place them 
on the board into the four squares allotted for them (the 
ones with the “leaf” symbol) next to the “Adaptation” tag. 
Draw 4 more elements at random to fill the leaf squares 
next to the “Abundance” tag, and another 4 random ele-
ments for the leaf squares next to the “Wanderlust” tag.
The species
From amongst the wooden pieces, each player chooses 
a color to represent his animal. From their colored piec-
es, each player gathers up the ten cones (to be used as 
dominance markers) as well as the following number of 
cylinders (to be used as action pawns) and cubes (to 
form their species gene pool):
●6-player game – 3 cylinders and 35 cubes
●5-player game – 4 cylinders and 40 cubes
●4-player game – 5 cylinders and 45 cubes
●3-player game – 6 cylinders and 50 cubes
●2-player game – 7 cylinders and 55 cubes
Put the rest of the cylinders and cubes back in the box. 
From each player’s gathered cubes, take one to use as 
a VP marker: place these on the “0” space of the Victory 
Point Track.
Each player then takes species from his gene pool and 
places them on certain starting tile as follows:
●Insects – 2 on savannah, 1 on wetland and desert
●Arachnids – 2 on jungle, 1 on forest and wetland
●Amphibians – 2 on wetland, 1 on jungle and savannah 
●Birds – 2 on forest, 1 on mountain and jungle 
●Reptiles – 2 on desert, 1 on savannah and mountain
●Mammals – 2 on mountain, 1 on desert and forest
With fewer than six players, ignore placement instructions 
for any animal not being played. Note that each animal 
begins the game Dominating its centrally-occupied tile.
Begin play
The game now begins with the Planning Phase of the first 
turn, with the player in control of the animal having its 
initiative marker furthest to the left on the Initiative track 
conducting the first AP placement.

Page 6
Elements
These are the round markers that 
make up the six elements used in 
Dominant Species: grass, grub, 
meat, seed, sun and water. 
When placed on a tile of earth, 
an element represents “supply”; 
when on an animal display, an 
element represents “need”. Tak-
en together, these provide for an 
animal’s “matching” elements on 
each tile of earth. 
Draw Bag
When not on an animal display, on the action display, or on 
a tile of earth, elements are kept in the draw bag. Whenever 
a new element is called for, it is always taken from this draw 
bag. Conversely, whenever an element is removed from an 
animal display or the game board it is always placed back in 
this draw bag for later use.
Earth
The large and small hexagonal tiles will, when added to the 
game board’s hexagonal play area, make up the “earth”—
the playing surface that much of the game will be focused 
on. 
The species belonging to each animal will be placed on 
earth tiles from their respective gene pools. Species re-
moved from earth for any reason other than Glaciation (see 
page 13) are placed back in the box, out of play—NOT back 
into the gene pools.
Elements will occupy the corners of the earth tiles when 
not on an animal display, on the action display, or awaiting 
deployment from the element draw bag.
The cone-shaped dominance markers will be placed on tiles 
of earth when the corresponding animal can claim domi-
nance there.
New (large) sea, wetland, savannah, jungle, forest, desert 
and mountain tiles will be added to the edges of earth 
when players perform the Wanderlust action. These are 
taken from the top of the three tile draw stacks.
New (small) tundra tiles are taken from the tundra draw 
stack and placed onto existing (large) tiles when players 
perform the Glaciation action. This converts that large tile 
into a tundra tile for the remainder of the game.
Tiles that touch along a common edge are said to be “adja-
cent” to one another.
Even though a tundra tile is slightly smaller than the tile it sits 
upon – and therefore will not physically touch the six tiles that 
could conceivably surround it – it is still considered adjacent 
to those tiles as it converts the tile underneath it into tundra: 
which does physically touch the tiles next to it.
MATCHING ELEMENTS EXAMPLE: In the graphic at right, 
the insects dominate the desert tile even though they have 
fewer units there than the amphibians; dominance being 
based on quality, not quantity. 
The insects match a total of 3 elements (1 grass + 1 grass + 
1 grub + 0 water) to the amphibians’ 2 elements (1 grub + 1 
grub + 0 meat + 0 water three times over). 
Even having just its two default sun elements, if one of the 
reptile species in the savannah migrated into the desert the 
reptiles could immediately claim dominance from the insects 
with a total of 6 matching elements (2 sun x 3 matches each).
Note that with three water the amphibians would dominate 
the savannah (3 to 2) if they were to move there.
Note also that if the sun element sitting on both these tiles 
were to be removed the reptiles would be endangered in the 
savannah, as they would no longer match any elements there.

Page 7
Matching elements
Some effects call for a player to determine his animal’s 
“matching” elements on a tile. To determine an animal’s 
matching elements on a particular tile, do the following:
●count the number of times the animal’s left-most element 
type appears on the tile;
●to this count add the number of times the animal’s sec-
ond element appears on the tile;
●repeat for each of that animal’s third, fourth, fifth and 
sixth element, if present, to arrive at a sum total.
See the graphic example below.
Endangered Species
Any species occupying a tile where its animal matches ex-
actly zero elements is said to be “endangered”.
Endangered species are vulnerable to elimination during 
the Extinction action and cannot claim dominance of a tile.
Dominance
When an animal has at least one of its species present on 
a tile and that animal matches more elements there than 
any other single animal with a species present, it is said to 
have “dominance” on that tile. A tie for greatest matching 
elements means no animal is dominant there. 
Endangered species can never claim dominance, even if 
their animal has the only species present on the tile.
Dominance of a tile is signified by the placement of a wood-
en cone of that player’s chosen color. Dominance can be 
gained or lost at any time and is effective immediately. Fur-
ther, it is the responsibility of the players – not the rules in 
and of themselves – to call for a change of dominance. 
In other words, dominance (or the loss of it) must be verbally 
and physically claimed and is not automatic. Thus once 
dominance of a tile is legally established, that dominance will 
remain in effect unless and until another player: (a) claims 
dominance there for his own animal, or (b) shows there 
to be a tie for greatest number of matching elements, thus 
removing the previous animal’s dominance marker.
Players will usually want to check to see if any animals have 
gained or lost dominance at the conclusion of those actions 
affecting placement or removal of elements—the Adaptation 
or Depletion actions, for example.
Each animal has 10 dominance cones. This is not a hard limit: 
in the unlikely event that a single animal dominates 11 or 
more tiles, use any method desired to mark the excess.

Page 8
Species
The wooden cubes represent the “species” that each ani-
mal will use to represent itself on earth. Most species will 
begin the game in their owner’s gene pool. Most or all of 
them will eventually occupy (be placed on) the tiles of earth. 
Species removed from earth for any reason other than Gla-
ciation are permanently removed from the game.
A player is never “out of the game”, even if he somehow 
both runs out of species in his gene pool and loses his last 
remaining species on earth. An animal caught in such a 
dilemma won’t be able to speciate or migrate, for example, 
but still has other action options (and still maintains a VP total).
Gene pool
Prior to being placed on a tile of earth, species belonging to 
an animal are kept in a pile in front of their owning player—
each such pile is called a “gene pool”. Whenever a species 
is added to earth, it is always taken from that player’s gene 
pool. However, whenever a species is removed from earth 
for any reason other than Glaciation it is always placed 
back into the box, out of play (not back into the player’s 
gene pool).
Victory Point 
Track
The “Victory Point Track” runs around the outside of the 
board. This is where, using one of its allotted cubes, each 
animal will keep track of its current VP score throughout 
the game. 
Whenever an animal gains or loses VPs, move its cube for-
ward or backward on the track accordingly. Place a spare 
like-colored cube in the “+100” space if an animal ever goes 
above 100 VPs. VPs may never drop below zero.
The spare cube may come from those previously removed 
from the game.
Action Display
This is the large pink-gray boxed area on the right side of 
the game board. The action display is the game’s “engine”, 
so to speak, and will facilitate each player’s wants and de-
sires as far as furthering their animal’s destiny on earth.
The action display:

Page 9
Sequence of play
Dominant Species is played in a series of turns in which all 
players take part more or less simultaneously. Each turn is 
divided into three Phases:
Planning Phase
Execution Phase
Reset Phase
During the Planning Phase, players will take turns placing 
their available action pawns (APs) into the “eyeball” spaces 
of the action display that dominates the right half of the 
board. Each AP will indicate an action to be taken by that 
player during the following Execution Phase. Each action 
space can hold a maximum of one AP so it’s “first come, first 
served”.
During the Execution Phase – which begins once all avail-
able APs have been placed for the turn – APs are removed 
from the action display in top-to-bottom, left-to-right order. 
Each time an AP is removed in this fashion, the owning 
player performs the action indicated in that section’s title 
bar (such as “Glaciation” or “Migration”). 
During the Reset Phase (page 20), some species may go 
extinct and one player may be able to score VPs via the 
Survival Card. Then if the game hasn’t ended yet the action 
display is reset for the following turn.
Play continues from turn to turn in this manner until the 
game ends and final scoring occurs (page 20).
Planning Phase
During each turn’s Planning Phase players will, one at a 
time in left-to-right Initiative order, place one of their avail-
able APs into any vacant “eyeball” action space of the action 
display. Each eyeball space can contain at most a single AP.
APs cannot be placed into non-eyeball spaces, such as the 
one with the arachnid icon in the Competition section.
After the last animal in Initiative order has placed an AP, the 
current “round” ends and a new round begins with the ani-
mal at the front of the Initiative track. Rounds continue in 
left-to-right Initiative order until all animals have run out of 
available APs to place. In each round, any animal that has 
run out of available APs is simply skipped when its position 
on the track is reached. Unplayed animals are also skipped.
Execution Phase
During the Execution Phase, APs placed on the action dis-
play during the immediately preceding Planning Phase are 
removed – one at a time in top-down and left-right order 
– and the appropriate action performed by the owning 
player. The order is thus:
1.	 Initiative
2.	 Adaptation
3.	 Regression
4.	 Abundance
5.	 Wasteland
6.	 Depletion
7.	 Glaciation
8.	 Speciation
9.	 Wanderlust
10.	Migration
11.	Competition
12.	Domination
Voluntary Actions
Actions are never mandatory: when a player’s AP is re-
moved from the action display he may choose to voluntarily 
forfeit the allowed action in its entirety.
Skipping sections
Most sections of the action display can be skipped if they 
contain no APs. Exceptions include: 
●Regression—this section always affects all animals with 
matching added elements;
●Wasteland—this section always affects all tundra tiles 
with matching elements;
●Speciation—the insects always get a chance to add a sin-
gle species to the board;
●Competition—the arachnids always get a chance to com-
pete against a single opposing species.
The various actions are described on the following pages in 
detail, and are presented in the same order in which they 
are to be executed during actual play of the game.
The actions are also presented – in order of execution – in 
abbreviated form on each player’s animal display.

Page 10
At the start of the Execution Phase, remove any AP that was 
placed here. That player performs the following activities:
●On the Initiative track, swap his animal’s initiative marker 
with that of the animal directly to the left of it—thus effec-
tively moving one space forward on the Initiative track. 
Ignore this activity if the acting animal already occupies 
the front (left-most) Initiative spot.
●Place the AP that was just removed into any vacant eye-
ball space.
The player effectively makes the very last AP placement of 
this turn, as well as moving forward in turn order for the 
following turn’s Planning Phase.
After any Initiative action has been performed, APs are re-
moved from this section one at a time in left-to-right order. 
When an animal’s AP is removed, that player selects one of 
the elements currently present in this section. The chosen 
element is removed from the action display and placed on 
an empty (gray) element space on that animal’s display.
No animal may ever have more than six elements on its 
animal display (counting both the inherent elements and 
added elements). If the acting animal already possesses six 
elements, this action is forfeited.
Animals are allowed to acquire multiples of the same ele-
ment type.
second 
lowest goes 
here; etc.
at start, 
initiative for 
the animal 
lowest on the 
food chain 
goes here
EXAMPLE: The insect player (green) wants to diversify a 
bit. He gets to remove his AP first and chooses to place the 
available meat element on his animal display (A). The white 
and red players are left with grub and grass to choose from.
The insects could have instead chosen to specialize by taking 
the grass element (B) to add to their two default grass. Taking 
one of the two available grubs (C) is risky because, if neither 
of the other two players took the other grub, it would move 
down to the Regression Box at the end of the turn (D) thereby 
forcing the insects to spend a precious AP next turn to save it.
EXAMPLE: In the Planning Phase the reptile player (black) 
decides to improve his position a bit on the Initiative track, 
so he places an AP here in the first turn of a six player game.
When his AP is removed, he first swaps positions with the 
bird player’s initiative marker (A). He then chooses another 
empty eyeball space to place the AP that was just removed: 
seeing an opportunity to get more sun into play, he takes the 
last vacant space in the Abundance section (B).

Page 11
REGRESSION
After all Adaptation actions have been performed, Regres-
sion occurs as follows: for each element type present in the 
Regression Box, every animal removes one element disk of 
the same type from its animal display. 
Action Pawn Benefit—Each AP present in this section 
prevents one such element from being removed from that 
animal. Note the third space here with the reptile 
symbol inside: the reptiles are always considered 
to have one “free” AP in this section.
During the Planning Phase the reptile player can still choose 
to place APs in this section as normal if he so desires.
No animal may ever have its default elements removed 
(those printed in the upper left corner of the animal dis-
plays). Animals possessing only their default elements 
cannot be affected by Regression in any way. 
After any and all Regression occurs, return any APs in this 
section to their owners.
After the Regression action has occurred, APs are removed 
from this section one at a time in left-to-right order. When 
an animal’s AP is removed, that player selects one of the 
elements currently present in this section. The chosen ele-
ment is removed from the action display and placed on a 
vacant corner of any tile of earth.
Elements can be placed on any vacant corner of a tile, even 
a corner shared by only one or zero other tiles (that is, those 
tile corners currently on the “edge” of earth).
Regression Box
Regression Box
Regression
Regression
EXAMPLE: The Regression Box holds two grub elements 
(though this counts as only one element type) (A). The insect 
player placed an AP here, which saves his grub element from 
being removed (B). The reptile player’s free AP here likewise 
saves his grub (C). 
Note that the insect player’s sun element is in danger of 
being removed next turn when the sun sitting in Adaptation 
is moved down into Regression at the end of the this turn (D).
EXAMPLE: The amphibians get first pick (A) and choose to 
place one of the available water elements as indicated. This 
gives them dominance of the Savannah tile: 6 matching 
elements to the insect’s 4 (B). 
The reptiles get second pick (C) and choose to place the 
available sun tile as shown. This will allow them to later 
expand into the mountain tile without those species going 
extinct.

Page 12
After all Abundance actions have been performed, remove 
any AP that was placed here. That player removes any one 
element currently in the Wasteland Box, placing it back in 
the draw bag. 
Then, regardless of whether there was an AP placed in this 
section or not, the Wasteland action automatically occurs: 
remove all elements from tundra tiles that match the ele-
ment type(s) still present in the Wasteland Box. Removed 
elements are placed back in the draw bag.
Note that the Wasteland Box will be empty – and the action 
skipped – during the first turn of the game.
Wasteland Box
Wasteland Box
After any Wasteland action has been performed, remove 
any AP that was placed here. That player selects one el-
ement on earth that matches an element type in the 
Depletion Box. The chosen element disk is removed from 
earth and placed back in the draw bag.
If none of the elements in the Depletion Box match elements 
on earth, this action can have no effect. 
Note that the Depletion Box will be empty – and thus the 
action useless – during the first and second game turns.
Depletion Box
Depletion Box
EXAMPLE: The mammal player removes his AP from this 
section. There is a lone seed element in the Depletion Box 
so he may remove any one seed element from earth. He 
chooses the one straddling the desert and savannah (A). 
On each tile the birds go from matching 4 elements to 
matching 2. They lose dominance of the desert as they 
are now tied with the reptiles (B). The mammals will gain 
dominance of the savannah where before it was a tie (C).
EXAMPLE: The arachnids remove their AP, choosing to place 
the grub element in the Wasteland Box back in the draw 
bag. Thus the two grubs adjacent to tundra are saved (A). 
A water element remains in the Wasteland Box, so all water 
elements on earth that are currently adjacent to a tundra are 
removed and place back in the draw bag (B). 
The amphibians lose their dominance of the desert tile 
because their species there are now endangered (C).

Page 13
After any Depletion action has been performed, remove 
the left-most AP (only) from this section. That player con-
ducts a Glaciation action by performing the following steps:
1.	 Select a non-tundra tile that is adjacent to at least one 
other tundra tile.
2.	 Remove and temporarily set aside all species from the 
chosen tile.
3.	 Place a new tundra tile (from the face up stack) on top of 
the chosen tile. 
The tile is no longer considered to be its former terrain type 
and is instead treated as a “tundra tile” for the rest of the game.
4.	 Remove all elements from earth that are surrounded by 
exactly three tundra tiles.
This means that an element occupying a corner of only one 
or two tundra tiles on the “edge” of earth are unaffected.
5.	 Gain bonus VPs (see page 3) based on the number 
of existing tundra tiles that are adjacent to the newly-
placed tile. 
6.	 From the pile of set-aside species, place 1 belonging to 
each animal back onto the tile.
7.	 The remainder of the removed species, if any, are dis-
placed back to their owners’ gene pools (instead of 
being eliminated and put back in the box).
If there are no tundra tiles remaining in the stack (all 12 are 
already out on earth) this action is forfeit.
Note that if there are any APs in the second, third or fourth 
eyeball spaces these are not removed at this time. Instead, 
these will shift forward during the upcoming Reset Phase. 
Players will find that Glaciation is subtly powerful enough 
to sometimes warrant investing in a future action, even if it 
means being without the use of an AP for a turn or two.
EXAMPLE: The reptile player gets the Glaciation action this 
turn. He would like to glaciate the Savannah because, not 
only would it would give him 3 bonus VPs for placement 
next to two existing tundra tiles, but would also give 
him control of the Survival Card (3 total reptiles in tundra 
compared to 2 arachnids and 1 insect). However, 
he doesn’t want the lone sun 
element to become 
surrounded by three 
tundra and thus 
be removed 
during 
step 4....
So he instead chooses the desert tile for Glaciation (step 1). 
He removes all the species there (step 2) then places a new 
tundra tile atop it (step 3). Step 4 has no effect. In step 5 
he scores 1 bonus VP (for there being one existing tundra 
adjacent to the new tile). Then, of the species removed in 
step 2 – 1 insect, 2 birds and 4 amphibians – one of 
each is put back on the new tundra 
(step 6), with the remaining 1 
bird and 3 amphibians 
being put back into 
their respective 
gene pools 
(step 7).

Page 14
After any Glaciation action has been performed, APs are 
der. When an animal’s AP is removed, that player chooses 
any one element on earth that matches the element type 
accompanying the space from which the AP was taken. He 
then places new species from his gene pool onto the adja-
cent tiles as follows: 
●Up to 4 species if the tile is sea or wetland.
●Up to 3 species if the tile is savannah, jungle or forest.
●Up to 2 species if the tile is desert or mountain.
●Up to 1 species if the tile is tundra.
Note that only one, two or three tiles can be populated at a 
time: those with a corner occupied by the chosen element.
After all Speciation actions have been performed, 
the insect player may place a single species from 
his gene pool onto any one tile of earth. 
During the Planning Phase the insect player can still choose 
to place APs in other spaces within this section if he so desires.
Wet
+4
Sav
+4
Sea
For
Mou
+2
Des
+2
Tun
After all Speciation actions have been performed, APs are 
removed from this section one at a time in left-to-right order. 
When an animal’s AP is removed, that player selects one of 
the available face up large tiles (those atop the Wanderlust 
Tiles stacks). He then performs the following activities in 
the order shown:
1.	 Select a vacant (white) hex on the game board and place 
the new tile there. The hex selected must be adjacent to 
at least one existing tile of earth.
2.	 May select one of the available element disks in the Wan-
derlust section of the action display and place it onto 
any vacant corner of the newly-placed tile.
3.	 Gain bonus VPs (see page 3) based on the number of 
existing tiles adjacent to the newly-placed tile. 
Finally, in food chain order, every player may move all, 
some or none of his species that are currently adjacent to 
the newly-placed tile onto that tile.
If any of the three tile stacks becomes depleted, the number 
of possible Wanderlust actions will be reduced accordingly.
EXAMPLE: The arachnids remove an AP from the “grass” 
eyeball space. They choose the grass element shown below 
(A). This allows them to place 3 more species in the savannah 
(B), 2 in the desert (C), and 1 more into the tundra (D).
The amphibians lose dominance of the desert since they are 
tied with the arachnids at 3 matching elements each (E).
The insects then place their free species in the savannah in 
order to maintain the quantitative advantage there (F).
EXAMPLE: The birds are first. They choose a face up wetland 
tile to place (A) along with an available seed element (B). 
There exist 2 tiles adjacent to the new wetland tile (C): 
referencing the Bonus Points Table, this nets the birds 3 VPs. 
The birds then decide to move 1 of their adjacent species onto 
the new wetland tile, immediately claiming dominance (D). 
The arachnids decline (they would be endangered there). 
Finally, the insects move in 2 of their species (E).

Page 15
After all Wanderlust actions have been performed, APs are 
der. When an animal’s AP is removed, that player selects up 
to X of his animal’s species anywhere on earth, where X is 
the number in the space from which the AP was taken. 
Each chosen species is then moved onto an adjacent tile.
Each bird species may Migrate to a tile up to two 
tiles away: that is, birds may be moved through an 
adjacent tile and onto a second tile.
Birds cannot migrate over blank hexes (those not yet 
containing a terrain tile).
Migrating species beginning a Migration action on the 
same tile may move together onto the same tile or be split 
up onto separate tiles, at the owning player’s discretion.
two
spaces
two
spaces
After all Migration actions have been performed, APs are re-
moved from this section one at a time in left-to-right order. 
When an animal’s AP is removed, that player notes the three 
terrain types associated with the space from which the AP 
was taken. He then chooses up to 1 tile of each of those ter-
rain types currently on earth. To choose a tile, it must contain: 
●at least one of that animal’s species; and
●at least one opposing species.
That player then eliminates any 1 opposing species on each 
of the chosen tiles. Place eliminated species back in the box, 
out of play (not back in their owners’ gene pools).
The arachnids are always considered to have one 
“free” AP in this section. They compete first, in any 
terrain type, but only on a single tile.
In the Planning Phase the arachnid player can still choose to 
place APs in other spaces within this section if he so desires.
any
Tundra
Wet
Sea
Sav
For
Mou
Des
EXAMPLE: The insects remove an AP from the “7” eyeball 
space. They move 1 insect from the desert to the adjacent 
savannah, claiming dominance (A). Being endangered on 
the tundra, they use their last 6 migrates to move their species 
out of there: 4 to the desert (B) and 2 to the mountain (C).
The birds also have a Migration AP this turn. Seeing what the 
insects did, they plan to use their special ability to move one 
of their species from the sea to the now vacant tundra (D).
EXAMPLE: The reptiles have an AP in the “tundra-desert-forest” 
eyeball space (A). They choose to eliminate 1 mammal in the 
left-most forest (B) and 1 insect in the tundra (C). They have 
no presence in the desert so forfeit their third competition (D). 
Even with presence, they cannot compete in the second 
forest nor in the sea this turn (E).

Page 16
After all Competition actions have been performed, APs are 
der. When an animal’s AP is removed, that player selects 
one tile on earth that has not yet been chosen for Domina-
tion this turn. That tile is then scored by performing the 
following steps:
1.	 The animal having the most spe-
cies present on the tile gains X VPs, 
where X equals the first number list-
ed for that terrain type on the Tile 
Scoring table on the game board.
2.	 If the tile being scored is any terrain 
other than tundra, the animal with 
the second highest number of spe-
cies present gains a number of VPs 
equal to the second number listed 
for that terrain on the Tile Scoring 
table. 
There must be another animal present—
an animal alone on a tile cannot claim 
both first and second place.
3.	 If the tile being scored is sea, wetland, savannah, jungle 
or forest, the animal with the third highest number of 
species present gains a number of VPs equal to the third 
number listed for that terrain on the Tile Scoring table. 
There must be a third animal present—an animal claiming first 
or second place on a tile cannot also claim third place.
4.	 If the tile being scored is sea or wetland, the animal with 
the fourth highest number of species present gains 2 or 
1 VPs, respectively.
There must be a fourth animal present—an animal claiming first, 
second or third place on a tile cannot also claim fourth place.
●IMPORTANT: In all cases above, ties for number of species 
on the tile being scored are broken in descending food 
chain order (that is, mammals first, then reptiles, etc.). 
5.	 Finally, if there is a dominant animal on the tile being 
scored that player must select and execute one face up 
Dominance Card (if one is available). Any choices to be 
made in the execution of a Dominance Card are made 
by the player who chose it. After execution place the 
card back in the box, permanently out of play.
Clarifications of card effects can be found on pages 18-19.
Note that when the Ice Age card is selected, the game will 
end at the conclusion of the current turn (see page 20). 
Note also that the dominant animal might not be the same as 
the animal that chose to score that particular tile, and might 
not be the animal that scored the most points. 
Finally, be aware that the first player each turn to have a 
chance to select a Dominance Card will have five effects 
to choose from—after which the choices will become 
progressively fewer as face up Dominance Cards are selected 
and their effects resolved.
After all Domination actions have been performed, the Ex-
ecution Phase is over and play proceeds to the Reset Phase 
(see page 20).
EXAMPLE: The reptile player has chosen to score the lone 
wetland tile in play. First place (8 VPs) goes to the amphibians 
with 4 species present. Reptiles and birds have 2 species each: 
the reptiles are higher on the food chain and so score 4 VPs 
for second place. The birds settle for third place (2 VPs) while 
no animal gets the last 1 VP for fourth place. 
Then, being dominant on the tile, the reptiles must choose 
and execute one face up Dominance Card.

Page 17
When playing Dominant Species with only 2 or 3 players, 
the following rules may be used which allow for each 
player to control multiple animals. These rules conflict with 
some of those found elsewhere in this rulebook: where 
there is conflict, the rules in this column take precedence.
Multiple animals
When assigning animals to the players during set up, as-
sign all six animals. Thus in a 3-player game each player 
will be in control of two different animals; in a 2-player 
game, each player will control three different animals.
Players should assign one colored set of wooden bits to 
each of their animals. Each animal receives 3 cylinders 
and 35 cubes as if it were a 6-player game. Each animal 
maintains its own separate VP total.
Actions
When one of a player’s animals is acting, his other 
animal(s) and their species are considered “opposing” for 
all purposes (exactly as if they were controlled by an op-
posing player). For example, when a Dominance Card 
refers to “your animal” it is referring only to the animal 
that was dominant on the scored tile—in this case your 
other controlled animal(s) would be treated as opposing.
Final scoring
While all six animals will ostensibly gain VPs throughout 
the game, only one belonging to each player will count 
for the final score. At the end of the game, each play-
er’s animal with the lowest individual score will be that 
player’s overall final score—animals with higher scores 
belonging to the same player are ignored.
Thus it behooves you to try to maintain a balance between 
your multiple animals throughout the game rather than 
sacrificing one for the benefit of another.
For example, in a 2-player game Mark’s animals have 
scores of 70, 145 and 160—netting him only 70 VPs. If Bob’s 
animals had 75, 85 and 95 points, his final score would be 
75 for the win.
The following alternate setup for earth will have the 
animals beginning the game unevenly matched but with 
varying starting VP levels to compensate. This option can 
be used with either the base game or in conjunction with 
the optional 2- and 3-player rules to the left.
Follow normal setup for earth except as follows: 
Tiles
Prior to placing tiles on the board, shuffle all the large tiles 
face down. Draw seven at random and place them into 
the seven starting spaces. (The remainder form the three 
draw piles as normal.) Place a tundra atop the central tile.
Elements
One at a time, randomly draw a total of twelve elements 
from the bag, placing them onto the twelve tile corners 
normally allotted for starting elements. (The action dis-
play is seeded with elements normally.)
Species
Place 1 mammal species onto each non-tundra tile con-
taining a single meat element; 2 mammals onto each 
non-tundra tile containing 2 meat; 3 mammals onto each 
non-tundra tile containing 3 meat; etc. 
Repeat this process for reptiles and sun; birds and seed; 
amphibians and water; arachnids and grub; insects and 
grass. 
Identify the animal having the most species on earth and 
count those species. Place every animal’s VP cube into 
the space of the Victory Point Track equal to this count. 
Then each animal loses a number of starting VPs equal to 
the number of starting species it has on earth (thus the 
animal or animals with the greatest number of starting 
species will begin the game with 0 VPs).
It is possible, however unlikely, that an animal will begin the 
game with no species on earth. If this occurs, don’t panic! 
That animal will start the game with a nice VP lead—plus it 
means that the odds of its preferred element coming out 
of the draw bag and onto the action display is enhanced.
Optional 2- and 
3-player Rules
Optional (random) 
Earth Setup

Page 18
The cards
Survival Card
The Survival Card is set aside at the 
beginning of the game. During 
play, players should keep track of 
how many of their species occupy 
tundra tiles. Any player with the 
sole highest count automatically 
and immediately takes possession 
of the Survival Card. If two or more 
players are tied for most, no player 
controls the card (it remains uncontrolled and will not score 
points for any player).
During each Reset Phase, after Extinction, the player in con-
trol of the Survival Card earns bonus VPs (see page 3) for 
the number of tundra tiles occupied by one or more of his 
animal’s species.
Dominance Cards
The 26 Dominance Cards are a 
player’s reward for being domi-
nant on a tile that is scored during 
a Dominance action. When a face 
up Dominance Card is selected dur-
ing a Dominance action, that player 
must resolve all of the card’s effect 
(or at least as much as possible giv-
en the current game situation). The 
card is then placed back in the box, out of play.
Should a question arise during play, hints and clarifications for 
the various card effects are outlined below.
Aquatic
Take the chosen element from the draw bag. If there are no 
vacant corners on any sea or wetland tiles currently in play 
the first part of this card is forfeit. If you have no species 
remaining in your gene pool the second part of this card 
is forfeit.
Biodiversity
You don’t receive additional VPs if a tile contains more than 
one opposing species—it’s simply 1 VP per tile that you oc-
cupy that has ANY opposing species on it.
Biomass
If your animal is alone on such an overcrowded tile you 
must eliminate one of your own species there. If multiple 
animals have species on an overcrowded tile, you choose 
which one dies out.
Blight
The dominant player chooses which elements to remove 
from the chosen tile.
Catastrophe
The dominant player chooses which species to eliminate on 
the chosen tile. It is also that player’s choice as to which sin-
gle species to remove from adjacent tiles. The second part 
is mandatory, however, so if the dominant player is the sole 
occupant of an adjacent tile he will have to eliminate one of 
his own animal’s species there.
Cold Snap
Every animal except the one controlled by the player select-
ing this card loses one of its species on each tundra tile.
Disease
An animal’s default (printed) elements can never be re-
moved. If the order of removal makes a difference, they are 
removed in food chain order. Place any removed elements 
back into the draw bag.
Ecodiversity
Remember that “sun” is a single element “type”—so, for ex-
ample, the two default sun elements on reptiles count once 
for this card effect, not twice.
Evolution
You may select species anywhere on earth to replace—you 
don’t need to share a tile with a chosen animal, for exam-
ple. If you only have zero or one species remaining in your 
pool you can only replace zero or one opposing species, 
respectively.
Fecundity
You get only +1 per occupied tile; not +1 per species on that 
tile. If the number of species remaining in your gene pool is 
less than the number of tiles you occupy, you choose which 
tiles get the additional species and which are skipped. 
Fertile
It’s 1 VP for every species on the chosen tile—yours or an 
opposing animal’s.
Give this card to the player 
with the most species 
occupying tundra tiles
During the Reset Phase, gain 
bonus VPs for the number 
of tundra tiles you occupy.
Your animal and each 
animal above yours in the 
food chain gains 1 new 
action pawn.
intelligence
intelligence

Page 19
Habitat
The element is not drawn at random—the player may 
choose any element currently in the draw bag.
Hibernation
The species may only come from those previously elimi-
nated (not from a player’s species gene pool and not from 
among those put back in the box at the start of the game).
Ice age
The game will end at the conclusion of the turn in which this 
card is selected—after Domination, perform Extinction and 
score the Survival Card as normal but skip the Reseed step. 
Then perform final scoring (see Endgame on page 20).
Ice Sheet
This ability follows all the normal rules for Glaciation (see 
page 13).
Immigrants
Animals make their decisions in food chain order. An animal 
having only its default (printed) elements cannot choose 
the first option—nice try!
Instinct
The AP may be placed into any empty eyeball space—even 
one that has yet to be acted upon this turn. This card gener-
ally acts as a super-early placement for the following turn.
Intelligence
If the animal highest in the food chain picks this card, they 
will be the only animal to benefit. Retrieve new action 
pawns from those set aside at the start of the game.
Mass Exodus
The player choosing this card moves all animals, even his 
opponents’. Species may be split up amongst any and all 
adjacent tiles as the player sees fit.
You cannot dump your two default (printed) elements. 
Note that you choose an element from the draw bag—the 
new element is not selected at random.
Niche Biomes
Remember that this card isn’t chosen until after the relevant 
tile is fully scored. The “first place” value of a tile is its left-
most number on the Tile Scoring table: for example, 9 for 
sea, 8 for wetland, 7 for savannah, etc. 
Nocturnal
This card has no effect if chosen by the animal already at 
the front of the line.
Omnivore
The new action pawn comes from those set aside at the 
start of the game.
Parasitism
If the animal lowest in the food chain picks this card, they 
will be the only animal to benefit. Retrieve new action 
pawns from those set aside at the start of the game.
Predator
Note the word “opposing” on this card: you don’t have to 
eliminate one of your own species on tiles containing only 
your species. You may choose a different opposing animal’s 
species on each tile.
Symbiotic
This effect counts default as well as added elements.
Credits
Game Design — Chad Jensen
Developer — Kai Jensen
Packaging Design — Rodger MacGowan
Graphics & Rules Layout — Chad Jensen
Additional Playtesters — Alex Ostroumov, Mark 
Beyak, Terry Beyak, Devon Biasi, Bob Borbe, Kris 
Adamson, Martin Scott, Kris Skold, Mr. Magoo, Paul 
Bravey, Richard Gage, Mike Chevalier and Andy Lewis
Production Coordinator — Tony Curtis
Producers — Gene Billingsley, Tony Curtis, Andy Lewis, 
Rodger MacGowan and Mark Simonitch
A kind thanks to the following individuals for giving 
their time to help proofread this rulebook — David 
East, Kevin Morris and Paul Marjoram

Dominant Species Rulebook
Page 20
During the Reset Phase, animals may lose species to ex-
tinction and one animal may be able to gain VPs via the 
Survival Card. Then the action display is reset in prepara-
tion for the next turn’s Planning Phase.
Extinction
First, Extinction occurs as follows: Eliminate all endan-
gered species. Eliminated species are removed from earth 
and placed back into the box, out of play. 
EXCEPTION: Each turn the mammal player may 
automatically save one of his endangered spe-
cies from Extinction (his choice of which if he 
has more than one that is endangered).
Next, make sure the player having the most species on 
tundra tiles is in possession of the Survival Card. If there 
is a tie for most species, no player receives the card. The 
owning player, if any, then scores bonus VPs (see page 3) 
based on the total number of tundra tiles occupied by his 
species (the quantity of species on each tile is irrelevant).
Note: You do not need to perform this step if this is the last 
turn of the game (via play of the Ice Age card).
Finally, in preparation for the next turn perform the fol-
lowing activities:
●Draw enough new Domination Cards off the top of 
the draw pile to fill – face up – each empty space of 
the Available Dominance Cards section of the game 
board. Any cards already occupying this section remain 
where they are. If there are not enough cards remain-
ing in the draw pile to fill up every card slot, fill up as 
many as you can; the rest will remain vacant.
Once the draw pile is depleted, no new cards will be 
placed for the remainder of the game.
●Slide any APs in the second, third and fourth spaces of 
the Glaciation section one space to the left. 
●Remove all elements from the Regression, Depletion 
and Wanderlust sections of the action display. Place 
them back into the draw bag. 
●Slide all elements in the Wasteland Box down into the 
Depletion Box.
●Slide all elements in the Abundance section down into 
the Wasteland Box.
●Slide all elements in the Adaptation section down into 
the Regression Box.
●Draw 4 elements at random from the bag and place 
them into the four “leaf” squares of the Adaptation 
section. 
●Draw another 4 elements at random and place them 
into the four “leaf” squares of the Abundance section. 
● Draw another 4 elements at random and place them 
into the four “leaf” squares of the Wanderlust section. 
●If face down, flip face up the top tile of each of the 
three large tile stacks. Any empty stack remains empty.
Play then proceeds to the next turn’s Planning Phase.
When the game ends via the Ice Age card, finish the remainder of the Domination actions, if any, then perform Extinc-
tion and score the Survival Card as normal. Then remove all Domination markers from earth and score each and every 
tile of earth one last time: Domination is ignored during final scoring—that is, animals gain VPs only, not any Domi-
nance Cards that may be remaining. 
Once final scoring is complete, the player in control of the animal with the highest VP total wins the game. In case of a 
tie for highest, the tied animal closest to the top of the food chain wins the game for its controller.
Reset Phase
Endgame