ALERT! ALERT! ALERT!
All UAC personnel be advised. There has been a code red secu-
rity breach in the dimensional gateway research facility here at
the Union Aerospace Corporation’s Mars base. We are under
invasion. I repeat, we are under invasion.
Our cameras have picked up a number of unusual entities roam-
ing the corridors and rooms of the base. We have compiled the
following information about the various types of invaders that
we have observed so far.
Species Designation: Zombie
These invaders appear to be UAC personnel who have
somehow been possessed. They are slow, extremely
numerous, and seem to have gained an uncanny strength.
Species Designation: Imp
These humanoid invaders move faster than zombies and
can attack from a distance by hurling fireballs, possibly
through some sort of pyrokinesis.
Species Designation: Trite
These spider-like invaders are among the fastest entities we
have observed. Beware, as they can move rapidly through
the base’s air ducts to surprise their victims.
Species Designation: Demon
These dog-like invaders are slower than trites, but possess
powerful tearing jaws and sharp reflexes, allowing them
to twist quickly and snap at anything that gets too close.
Species Designation: Mancubus
These bloated creatures are slow, but they have powerful
guns fused to their arms, allowing them to fire a heavy
barrage of bullets.
Species Designation: Hell Knight
These giant invaders are the strongest of the observed
entities. They can knock entire squads aside with one
sweep of their arms. Keep your distance at all costs!
Species Designation: Archvile
These humanoid invaders are similar to imps, but employ
a much more powerful pyrokinetic ability that can sum-
mon huge gouts of flame at great distance. Close with
them and engage!
Species Designation: Cyberdemon
We only got a few blurry images of this creature before it
destroyed the cameras, so we have no intelligence on it. It
appears extremely dangerous. Be careful!

ATTENTION! RED ALERT!
Attention all Marines! Attention all Marines! Report immediate-
ly to central command. If you are isolated from the main facili-
ty, seek out other marines, form squads, and engage the invaders
with whatever means possible. The weapons at the Mars base
are limited, but should be sufficient for neutralizing the
invaders. Although you will have trained on most of them, please
read this downloadable weapons summary.
Weapon Designation: Fist
The invaders are physically powerful. It is recommended
that you only attempt unarmed combat with them if you
have no other choice.
Weapon Designation: Pistol
All security personnel have been issued one standard
sidearm. These pistols have short range and inflict only
minor damage, but ammo for them should be plentiful.
Weapon Designation: Machine Gun
Certain personnel have been issued small-caliber machine
guns. These weapons are capable of rapid fire and are
quite accurate if fired in short bursts.
Weapon Designation: Chainsaw
These were accidentally shipped to the base, but they
make excellent melee weapons and can run for several
days without recharging.
Weapon Designation: Shotgun
A great weapon at close quarters, the shotgun inflicts
grievous wounds and can injure several invaders with a
single shot.
Weapon Designation: Grenade
Grenades are the only weapons that can eliminate threats
around a corner. Be careful not to get caught in their blast
radius.
Weapon Designation: Chain Gun
These heavy weapons fire a hail of bullets that can chew
up smaller invaders in moments. 
Weapon Designation: Rocket Launcher
Rocket launchers make effective long-range weapons,
allowing you to kill invaders before they can reach you.
As with grenades, you should avoid their blast radius.
Weapon Designation: Plasma Gun
These weapons are rare and energy cells for them are hard
to find. If you are able to locate a plasma gun, however,
you will find it an extremely versatile and effective
weapon.
Weapon Designation: BFG
Do not allow the invaders to claim this weapon! When fir-
ing the BFG, use extreme caution. It fires a massive blast
of energy, and packs a punch that should be able to take
down even the largest invader.

Doom: The Board Game
DOOM: THE BOARD GAME is a game for 2 to 4 players, playable
in 1 to 2 hours, based on the groundbreaking DOOM computer
game by id Software.
Introduction
In DOOM: THE BOARD GAME, demonic invaders have broken
through from another dimension into the Union Aerospace
Corporation’s Mars base. Marines have been deployed to the base
to protect UAC personnel and destroy the invaders. Up to three
players will take the roles of heavily armed and highly trained
marines, while one player will control the legion of demonic
invaders.
In the game, the marine players explore the claustrophobic rooms
and corridors of the Mars base, attacking monsters, picking up
new weapons and equipment, and working together to complete
specific mission objectives. 
In many scenarios, the invader player’s goal is to frag (kill) the
marines a certain number of times. Failing that, the invader play-
er will seek to prevent the marines from completing their objec-
tives. In addition to simply controlling the monsters on the board,
the invader player can create nasty surprises by playing event and
spawn cards against the desperate marines.
Scenarios
The heart of DOOM: THE BOARD GAME is the scenario. Before
every game, a scenario must be chosen. Each individual scenario
will tell you how to set up the game, explain any special rules,
and describe the specific objectives you must achieve in order to
win the game. You will find several ready-to-play scenarios in
the Scenario Guide (the other book included with this game).
Feel free to invent your own scenarios with the components pro-
vided with your game. You may also visit www.fanta-
syflightgames.com for additional scenarios and exciting new
options for your DOOM board game.
To get you started, these rules assume that you will be playing the
KNEE DEEP IN THE DEAD scenario (the first scenario in the
Scenario Guide).
WARNING: Do not read the Scenario Guide unless you are the
invader player. Doing so may spoil some of the surprises that lie
ahead of you.
Object of the game
In KNEE DEEP IN THE DEAD, the marine players struggle to
escape a demon-infested section of the Mars base. To do so, they
must find the red key token and fight their way to the red secu-
rity door.
The invader player tries to score a total of 6 marine kills or “frags”
before the marines can escape the board. 
Components
1 Rule Book (this book)
1 Scenario Guide
4 Reference Sheets
66 Plastic Miniatures:
3 Marine figures
3 Cyberdemon figures
6 Archvile figures
6 Demon figures
6 Hell Knight figures
6 Mancubus figures
12 Trite figures
12 Imp figures
12 Zombie figures
6 Custom Dice:
1 Yellow die
1 Red die
2 Green dice
2 Blue dice
84 Cards:
66 Invader Cards
18 Marine Cards
1 Compass Rose Token
3 Marine Equipment Bins
58 Map Pieces:
12 Room Pieces
14 Corridor Pieces
5 Turn Pieces
6 Intersection Pieces
21 Dead End Pieces
14 Door Tokens
14 Plastic Door Stands
31 Prop Tokens:
18 Obstacle Tokens
3 Key Tokens
6 Encounter Tokens
6 Teleporter Tokens
30 Wound Tokens
15 Armor Tokens
10 Marine Order Tokens
113 Equipment Tokens:
45 Ammo Tokens
21 Weapon Tokens
12 Health Tokens
15 Other Equipment Tokens
MARINES AND INVADERS
The plastic figures included with DOOM: THE
BOARD GAME represent the marines and invaders
of the Mars base. It is always important to know
which exact space (or spaces) that a figure occu-
pies on the board, as this affects many of the rules
for combat and movement.
Note that most figures occupy a single space, but
some larger figures occupy 2 or even 4 spaces (see
Oversized Invaders, pg. 11).
The direction that a figure is facing has no effect
in the game.
Important: After the marine players have chosen
which color figure they will use in the game,
return all unused marine figures and all the
invader figures of those colors to the box. Any fig-
ures returned to the box may not be used in the
game.
Example: Rob and Darrell are playing the
marines. Rob chooses the red marine and Darrell
chooses the blue marine. The green marine figure
and all the green invader figures are returned to the
box.
MAP PIECES (SEE DIAGRAM)
The map pieces are linked together in various
ways to form the game board. Each square on the
board is considered one space.
DOORS (SEE DIAGRAM)
DOOM: THE BOARD GAME comes with 11 normal
doors and 3 security doors. Both marines and
invaders may open and close normal doors, but
only a marine can open or close a security door, and
then only with the appropriate security key (see
Doors, pg. 9).
COMPASS ROSE TOKEN
This token is used to indicate which direction is
north. This is needed to determine the direction
of a weapon’s scatter (see later).
PROPS
There are four kinds of cardboard prop tokens
included with DOOM: THE BOARD GAME. These
are: obstacles, encounters, teleporters, and ducts.
Blocking obstacles prevent marines and invaders
from moving or tracing line of sight through the
squares they occupy.
Damaging obstacles deal damage to any marine or
invader that moves into them.
Encounters often grant clues or equipment to the
first marine that ends his move in a space they
occupy. Each individual scenario details its spe-
cific encounters and their effects.
Teleporters enable rapid movement for the marines
around the board. If a marine is in the same space as
a teleporter token, he may, for one space of move-
ment. move to another teleporter (of the matching
color) anywhere on the board. Teleporters are
explained in more detail on page 10.
Ducts behave like teleporters, but can only be used
by certain invaders. Ducts are explained in more
detail on page 10.
Each square equals 1 space.
Map
Pieces
Security doors have their
key printed on them.
Doors
Rate
Armor Rating
Wound Rating
Attack Dice
Attack Dice
Abilities
Ammo Type
Abilities
Marines may
always use the
weapons out-
lined in green
(providing they
have the ammo).
There are no
weapon tokens
for these
weapons.
Invaders and
weapons with a
red bar along
their bottom
may only make
melee attacks
(see Melee
Attacks, pg. 10).
Marine
Weapons
Invaders
Reference Sheet Explanation
The Compass
Rose Token
Blocking
Obstacles
Damaging
Obstacles
Encounters
Teleporters
Ducts
The Plastic
Figures

REFERENCE SHEETS
(SEE DIAGRAM)
Each player receives a reference sheet at the start
of the game. Each reference sheet lists the abili-
ties and strengths of the invaders and weapons in
MARINE EQUIPMENT BINS
Each marine player receives an equipment bin
(of his color) which is placed in front of the
player. The equipment bin is used to track the
marine’s ammo, wounds, and armor.
MARINE CARDS
At the start of the game, each marine player
receives two or more of these cards. They grant a
marine permanent special skills that will help him
battle the invaders.
INVADER CARDS
The invader deck contains two types of invad-
er cards: spawn cards and event cards.
Spawn cards each feature a picture of one or
more invaders. They are used by the invader
player to “spawn” additional invader figures on
the board (see also Step 2: Spawn, pg. 7).
Event cards represent special actions and
events that the invader player may use against
the marines (see also Playing Invader Event
Cards, pg. 6).
Each invader card (spawn and event cards
alike) also contains a scatter diagram that is
used to determine how far some attacks deviate
after missing their target. (see Scatter, pg. 11).
EQUIPMENT TOKENS
These tokens are placed on the board as directed
by the specific scenario. They represent
weapons, ammo, health, extra armor, and other
items that can aid the marines in their battle
against the invaders.
AMMO TOKENS
Marine players use these tokens to keep track of
their ammo supply. There are three types of
ammo: shells/bullets, rockets/grenades, and
energy cells, each used by different weapons.
ARMOR TOKENS
Marine players will use these tokens to keep
track of their armor rating. A marine’s armor
rating indicates how difficult it is for attacks to
wound him.
WOUND TOKENS
Marine and invader players both use these
tokens to keep track of injuries. When a marine
takes his final wound, he is “fragged” (killed)
and must respawn (see Frags & Kills, pg. 9).
When an invader takes a number of wounds
equal to its wound rating, it is killed and
removed from the board.
MARINE ORDER TOKENS
The marine players use these tokens to take spe-
cial actions, such as guarding, aiming, or dodg-
ing. 
DOOM DICE
Players use these dice to make attacks in DOOM:
THE BOARD GAME. The number on each die face
represents range, while the bullet holes represent
damage. If one or more bullet icons are rolled
during an attack, the attacking marine player
must remove an ammo token (of the type used)
from his equipment bin. Finally, the red and yel-
low dice both have a miss side: If a miss is rolled
during an attack, the attack fails completely,
regardless of the other dice rolled.
Shells/Bullets
Rockets/Grenades
Energy Cell
Damage
Doom Dice Explanation
Range
Indicates
ammo usage
Miss Icon
Bullet Icon
Preparing the Game for the first play 
To prepare for your first game of DOOM, please follow these steps:
Carefully punch out the cardboard pieces included with
the game, being sure not to tear or damage them. Set
aside the 14 cardboard doors as you punch them out.
Insert the 14 cardboard doors into the plastic door stands
included with the game. It is easiest to insert the doors at an
angle into the side of the stands, as shown in the diagram
below. Once assembled, you should not need to take the
doors apart again.
Find the Cyberdemon pieces (there should be three pieces
in each of the three colors). Assemble the pieces so the fig-
ure appears as shown. If a figure does not stay together,
you may apply a small amount of epoxy glue. Once assem-
bled, you should not need to take the Cyberdemons apart
again.
Marine
Equipment Bin
Marine Cards
Invader Cards
Equipment
Tokens
Ammo Tokens
Armor Token 
Wound Token
Marine Order
Tokens
Doom Dice

Game Setup
Follow the steps below to prepare for the KNEE DEEP IN THE
DEAD scenario. Other scenarios may have special setup rules of
their own.
1. CHOOSE AN INVADER AND MARINES
Select one player to play the invaders. It is recommended that the
most experienced player take the invaders, but you may choose at
random if you prefer. The other players are the marines, and each
of them should choose one of the three marine colors—red, green,
or blue—to represent themselves.
2. CHOOSE A SCENARIO
The invader player looks through the Scenario Guide and selects
a scenario to play. For the purposes of these rules, we assume that
you’ll be playing the KNEE DEEP IN THE DEAD scenario.
3. CREATE THE GAME BOARD
The invader player now creates the part of the game board that
forms the starting area of the scenario (specially marked under
each scenario).
Important: Place the compass rose token near the board pointing
in the direction indicated in the Scenario Guide. The compass rose
is used when applying the scatter diagrams found on the invader
cards.
4. PUT STARTING PIECES ON THE BOARD
The rules for each scenario in the Scenario Guide explain how to set
up the board at the beginning of a new game. Place the marine and
invader figures in the starting area as shown, as well as any equip-
ment tokens located here (see diagram below).
5. SETUP MARINE EQUIPMENT
Each marine player now receives the marine equipment bin in his
color. Marine players also receive ammo tokens, wound tokens, and
armor tokens based on the number of marine players (see below).
Place these tokens on the equipment bin in the indicated areas.
Marines
Shells/Bullets
Wounds
Armor
Example: In a three player game, one player will take the role of
the invaders, and the two other players will take the role of the
marines. Since there are two marine players, each marine places
3 shells/bullets, 9 wounds, and 2 armor in his equipment bin.
6. Deal Out Starting Cards
Separate the marine cards and the invader cards, then shuffle
each deck individually.
Each marine player draws the number of marine cards indicated
below. Each player should place these cards face up in his play area.
Marines
Cards
The invader player then draws 5 invader cards (regardless of the
number of marines). The invader player should look at his cards
but not reveal them to the marine players.
7. FIRST MARINE PLAYER
The marine player sitting to the left of the invader player is the
first marine player. 
The Round Sequence
DOOM: THE BOARD GAME is played over a series of rounds.
During each round, every player receives one turn, starting with the
first marine player and continuing clockwise. After the invader
player has taken his turn, the round is over and the next round
begins with the first marine player taking his turn once again.
ONE ROUND CONSISTS OF:
Turn 1: First Marine Player’s Turn
Turn 2: Second Marine Player’s Turn 
Turn 3: Third Marine Player’s Turn 
Turn 4: Invader Player’s Turn
If playing with less than three marine players, simply skip the
turn of the missing marines.
THE MARINE TURN
As the first event of his turn, a marine player must choose an
action from the four listed below. A marine is not allowed to
do anything before he has declared which of the four actions
he is executing. After the marine has resolved his entire action,
his turn is over and play passes to the player on his left.
The four possible actions are:
A. SPRINT
A marine that sprints may move up to 8 spaces during his turn,
but cannot attack (see Movement, pg. 7).
B. UNLOAD
A marine that unloads may make up to 2 attacks during the
turn, but cannot move (see Attacking, pg. 7). Each attack is
completely resolved before the marine makes the next attack. 
Important: A marine may use a different weapon each time he
attacks, even when unloading.
C. ADVANCE
A marine that advances may move up to 4 spaces and may
make 1 attack during the turn. An advancing marine may make
his attack before, after, or at any point during his movement.
Example: An advancing marine could move 1 space around a
corner, attack an invader, and then move 3 additional spaces in
any direction (including back around the corner).
D. READY
A marine that readies can either move up to 4 spaces or make
1 attack during the turn. In addition, a marine that readies may
place 1 marine order next to his marine on the board. The order
may be placed at any time during his turn. These orders grant
the marines special actions/abilities later in the round, often dur-
ing the invader player’s turn (see Marine Orders, pg. 9). 
INVADER PLAYER’S TURN
After all marines have taken their turn, it is time for the invader
player to act. The invader player’s turn is divided into 3 steps.
After the invader player has resolved all 3 steps, his turn is over
and the round ends.
Step 1: Draw and Discard
Step 2: Spawn
Step 3: Activate Invaders
STEP 1: DRAW AND DISCARD
To begin the invader’s turn, the invader player must draw 1
card from the top of the invader deck for each marine player.
If this leaves the invader player with more than 8 cards in his
hand, he must immediately select and discard enough cards so
that his hand size is reduced to 8. When the invader player draws
the last card in the invader deck, he scores 1 frag point (see
Frags & Kills, pg. 9). He then creates a new invader deck by
shuffling the discard pile into a new deck.
As described before, the cards in the invader deck are either
event cards or spawn cards.
Playing Invader Event Cards
The invader player may play his event cards at any time as long
as the conditions on the card have been met. After playing an
event card, simply follow the printed instructions, resolve the
effects, and discard the card in a discard pile. 
Four Player Setup for Scenario I
The first area of
the scenario is
set up like this
to begin the
game.
The invader player receives:
Each marine player receives:
63 plastic
invader
figures
5 invader cards (face down)
Reference sheet
Reference sheet
1 plastic
marine
figure
1 equipment bin
2 marine
cards
(face up)
The deck of invader
cards is placed near the
invader player.
Put the compass rose near the board like this.
2 armor
tokens
2 shells/bullets
tokens
10 wound tokens

Example: After a marine player has picked up a shotgun equip-
ment token, the invader player decides to play the “It’s a Trap!”
event card. This card allows him to immediately activate up to 2
invaders before the marine’s turn can continue. After he has acti-
vated both invaders, the card is discarded and the marine play-
er continues his turn.
STEP 2: SPAWN
After drawing his cards for the turn, the invader player may play
1 (and only 1) spawn card from his hand. 
After playing a spawn card, the invader player takes the invaders
shown on the card and places them on the board.
The following rules limit how the invader player may place
spawned invaders on the board:
• The invader player must place any spawned invaders
on spaces that have no line of sight to any marine fig-
ures on the board (see Step 2: Confirm Line of Sight,
pg. 8). If the invader player cannot find a legal space
on the board for one or more of the invaders, he can-
not place those invaders. After any spawned invaders
are placed on the board, the used spawn card is placed
in the discard pile.
Exception: For purposes of spawning new invaders, other
invader figures do not block a marine’s line of sight.
Important: Many spawn cards
are divided in half by a gray line.
When playing such a card, the
invader player must choose
between the two different groups
of invaders.
Example:
This card may be
played to spawn either one demon
or both an imp and a zombie.
• The invader player cannot place more invaders on the
board than there are available figures. For instance, if
all six hell knight figures are already on the board, the
invader player cannot spawn an additional hell knight.
If the invader players wishes to spawn a figure on the
board, but he is already using all of his available fig-
ures, he may choose to remove an invader figure from
the board, to make that figure available for immediate
placement by a spawn card (or when a new area of the
scenario is revealed).
Remember that all invader figures of the same color as an unused
marine are placed in the box before the game starts. These figures
are not available to the invader player. Thus, in a three-player game
where only the red and the green marine figures are being used, the
blue invader figures are not available to the invader player.
STEP 3: ACTIVATING INVADERS
After playing a spawn card (or not), the invader player may activate
each invader on the board once. To activate an invader, the invad-
er player simply declares which invader is being activated and con-
sults his reference sheet. When an invader is activated, it may move
a number of spaces up to its movement score and make one
attack. Just like an advancing marine, an invader may take its attack
before, after, or at any point during its movement (see later).
After the invader player has had the chance to activate every invad-
er figure on the board, his turn is over. The round is then complete,
and a new round begins with the first marine player.
Movement works much the same for both marines and invaders,
with one key difference:
• A marine’s movement is based on the action he has taken for the
turn (for example, an advancing marine has a movement of 4).
• An invader figure’s movement is based on its movement rate
recorded on the reference sheet (for example, a trite has a move-
ment rate of 5).
The controlling player moves his figure, one space at a time,
across the board until he has either used all of the figure’s
allowed movement, or is satisfied with its position. The control-
ling player may choose not to use all of the figure’s movement
if he so chooses. Several examples of movement are shown in
the diagram below. 
The following rules apply to movement:
• Figures may move into any adjacent space (including diago-
nal spaces), but must remain completely on the board at all
times during the move.
• Figures may pass through spaces occupied by friendly figures
during movement, but must end their turn in an empty space.
• Figures can safely move next to and/or around enemy figures
unless the enemy figure has the watch ability (see the last page
of this rules booklet for a summary of special abilities, including
watch).
• Figures cannot move into or through closed doors, blocking
obstacles, or enemy figures during their movement.
• Attacks may be made at any point during movement. For
example, a figure with a movement rate of 4 may move 2 spaces,
attack, and then move another 2 spaces.
• Special movement rules apply to the oversized invader figures
(i.e., the demon, mancubus, hell knight, and cyberdemon). See
Oversized Invaders, pg. 11.
Attacking
Every attack (for marines and invaders both) follows these steps:
Step 1: Declare Attack
Step 2: Confirm Line of Sight
Step 3: Count Range and Roll Attack
Step 4: Determine Attack Success
Step 5: Inflict Wounds
STEP 1: DECLARE ATTACK
The attacking player declares which space his figure is attack-
ing. If the attacking figure is a marine, the player must also state
which weapon the marine is using.
The following rules apply to attacks:
• Melee attacks can only be declared against adjacent spaces.
Weapons and invaders that are marked with a bottom red bar on
the reference sheets can only make melee attacks. See pg. 10 for
further information on melee attacks.
After spawning 3 zombies, the invader player finds
he can only place 2 of them out of line of sight of
the marine, so the third is wasted.
Invader Spawning
Example
Movement Examples
This marine is advancing, so he
moves 4 spaces.
While you can’t move through
enemy figures, you can safely
move around them...usually.
This marine moves around the cor-
ner, attacks the zombie, and then
moves back around the corner.

• Marines are always considered to have access to the fist, pis-
tol, and grenade weapons (although the pistol and grenade
weapons still require ammo tokens for use). These weapons are
outlined in green on the reference sheets. A marine cannot use
any other weapon unless he has acquired the corresponding
weapon token.
• If a marine does not have at least one ammo token of a specif-
ic kind, he may not declare an attack with any weapon using that
ammo type (see Ammo, later on).
Note that the attacking player nominates a space to attack, and
not necessarily another figure. This is important for weapons
that have a blast radius (see later). When firing weapons that do
not have a blast radius, the single figure occupying the nominat-
ed space is also considered the target of the attack.
STEP 2: CONFIRM LINE OF SIGHT
In order to attack a space, the attacker must have line of sight to it.
In other words, the attacking figure must be able to trace an unin-
terrupted straight line from the center of its space to the center of
the space it is targeting. If attacking with an oversized invader, you
need only trace a line of sight from the center of one of the spaces
it occupies to the center of the space it is targeting.
Line of sight is blocked by walls, closed doors, other figures, and
blocking obstacles. Thus you cannot, for instance, shoot directly
through one invader to hit another invader behind it.
Example: In the diagram above, the marine has a line of sight to
the demon invader shaded in green, but not those shaded red. The
obstacle is blocking the line of sight to the zombie, the corner is
concealing the cyberdemon, and the demon itself is blocking the
line of sight to the archvile behind it.
STEP 3: COUNT RANGE & ROLL ATTACK
Next, the attacking player counts the number of spaces from the
space occupied by the attacking figure to the targeted space. This
is the range of the attack.
Example: As illustrated in the diagram above, the marine finds
that the shortest path he can trace to his target is 4 spaces. Thus
the range for his attack is 4 spaces.
After determining the range of the attack, the attacking player
rolls the dice corresponding to the attacking weapon or invader.
The specific dice used are listed on the reference sheet.
Example 1: When attacking with the pistol, the marine player
rolls one yellow and one green dice.
Example 2: When the mancubus is attacking, it rolls one yellow,
one blue, and one green die.
STEP 4: DETERMINE ATTACK SUCCESS
First, the attacking player checks to see if he rolled a miss result. If
he did, the attack automatically fails. If no miss results are show-
ing, the attacker adds up all the range number
results on the rolled dice. The attack hits if the
total range of the rolled dice is equal to or
greater than the range needed for the attack. 
If the total rolled range is lower than the
required range needed to hit the target, the
attack fails and no damage is done.
Example: Using the example on the above diagram, the marine
decides to attack the demon with his pistol. The marine player
consults his reference sheet, and finds that a pistol rolls 1 yellow
and 1 green die. The player picks up the two dice, rolls them, and
gets the illustrated result.
He now adds together the numbers on each die (range 2 on the
yellow die and range 2 on the green die), for a total range of 4.
Since no misses were rolled and the total range result was equal
to or greater than the range needed (4), the attack hits!
STEP 5: INFLICT WOUNDS
If the attack hits, the attacking player counts the total number of
damage (bullet holes) showing on the rolled dice. This is the
total damage dealt to the figure in the target space. In order for
this damage to have any effect, however, it must first penetrate
the figure’s armor.
A marine’s armor rating is equal to the number of armor tokens
on his equipment bin. An invader’s armor rating can be found on
the reference sheet. In order to inflict damage to a figure (invader
or marine both), the total damage must be equal to or greater than
its armor rating. Thus, if a figure has 2 armor, it will take 2 points
of damage to give it 1 wound.
It is possible for a single attack to deal more than one wound to its
target. An attack deals 1 wound for every increment of damage equal
to the target’s armor rating. For example, a figure with 2 armor
would take 2 wounds if subjected to 4 damage from a single attack. 
Note that any “leftover” damage is wasted. For example, 7 dam-
age given to a figure with an armor rating of 2 would still only
cause 3 wounds. This also applies in the case where a single
damage point is dealt to a figure with an armor rating of 2+; the
single damage point is wasted and the attack has no effect.
Example: The attacking marine now counts the total damage on
the dice he rolled for the attack (2 on the yellow die and 1 on the
green die) and announces that he has dealt 3 damage to the
demon. The demon has 3 armor, so the attack penetrates the
demon’s armor and causes 1 wound. The invader player places
one wound token next to the demon. 
When a marine suffers a wound, he must remove one wound token
from his equipment bin (simply move the token off the bin and
place it nearby). When a marine removes the last wound token
from his equipment bin, he has been fragged (see Frags & Kills,
pg. 9).
Conversely, when an invader suffers a wound, the invader play-
er places a wound token (from the pile near the board) next to
the actual figure on the board. An invader figure is killed when
the number of wound tokens it has received equals to or exceeds
its wound rating (as indicated on the reference sheet). A killed
invader figure is simply removed from the board and becomes
available for spawning once more.
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Many weapons and creatures have special abilities when attack-
ing (and some while moving). Be sure to familiarize yourself
with these special abilities by studying the reference sheet. Each
special ability is represented by an icon that is described in detail
on the last page of this rules booklet.
Other Rules
Here are some other rules that you will use during a typical game.
AMMO (MARINES ONLY)
In order to attack with any given weapon, a marine player must
have at least one ammo token of the corresponding type on his
ammo bin. Invaders can ignore the ammo rules entirely, as their
attacks are different in nature.
The ammo required by a particular weapon is illustrated on the ref-
erence sheets. Weapons that show an infinity symbol (oo) do not
require, nor expend, ammo.
After a marine has rolled for an attack, he must always check for
ammo expenditure. If one or more of his
rolled dice show a bullet icon, the marine
player must immediately discard 1 ammo
token of the type used by the attacking
weapon. Only 1 ammo token is discarded per
attack, regardless of how many bullet icons
are showing. 
The marine targets one of
the two spaces that the
demon occupies (high-
lighted in red). The range
is 4 spaces.
Counting Range
The demon (highlighted
in green) is the only
invader to which the
marine can trace a line
of sight. 
Line of Sight
Miss
Result
Bullet
Icon

Important: When a marine is attacking with a weapon that has
the blow-through ability, the attack cannot be “walked” to
another space unless the marine has at least 1 remaining
ammo token of the type required by the weapon.
DOORS
The UAC Mars base uses thick metal doors designed to block heavy
weapons fire. Closed doors are represented by a door token placed
between exactly four spaces (2 in front, 2 behind). When a door is
opened, slide it off the board to one side. If the door is closed again
(by either marines or invaders), simply slide the door back onto the
board to its original closed position.
Closed doors block movement and all attacks (even those that
don’t require line of sight). It is possible for both marines and
invaders to expend movement points to open or close doors, but
only if their figure is located on one of the spaces adjacent to the
door’s closed position. It costs a figure 2 spaces of movement
to either open or close a door. Doors cannot be destroyed by
attacks (although the invader player has a “Smash” card that can
destroy doors), and they cannot be closed if the “door line” is
blocked by an oversized invader.
SECURITY DOORS
Three of the doors in the game have the image of a key token illus-
trated on them. These doors begin play locked, and cannot be
opened unless a marine first finds the corresponding key token.
Once a key token has been picked up by a marine, it is placed next
to the compass rose to indicate that security doors of this color are
now unlocked for all marines for the duration of the game.
Invaders can never open or close a security door (although the
invader player can destroy a security door with the “Smash” card).
EQUIPMENT TOKENS
As the board is revealed, various types of equipment are placed
on it as directed by each scenario. This equipment can be new
weapons, armor, extra health, ammo, or other special items. The
following rules apply to all equipment tokens:
• Equipment tokens may only be picked up by marines.
• During his turn, a marine may automatically pick up an equip-
ment token in the space he is occupying (it does not cost him any
movement points to do so).
• During his turn, a marine may give weapon or ammo tokens to
adjacent marines at the cost of 1 movement point per token
given. 
AMMO TOKENS
These tokens represent ammunition for the
marines’ weapons. When a marine picks
up an ammo token, he places it on the
proper area of his equipment bin.
Armor Tokens
These tokens represent high tech armor
that provides valuable protection for the
marines. When a marine picks up an
armor equipment token, he places it on his
equipment bin in the armor area. The
number of armor tokens on his equipment
bin provides a marine’s armor rating.
Armor cannot be given to other marines,
and any armor in excess of a marine’s
starting armor is discarded when a marine
is fragged.
HEALTH TOKENS
These tokens represent painkillers and
other medical supplies that the marines
can use to treat their wounds. When a
marine picks up a health token, he must
immediately discard it from play and then
return up to 3 wound markers previously
removed from his equipment bin. If the
marine is already at full health (i.e., no
wound markers have been removed from
his equipment bin), he cannot pick up
health tokens. 
KEY TOKENS
These tokens represent passcodes or key
cards used to unlock secure doors in the
base. When a marine picks up a key
token, he immediately places it next to
the compass rose. This indicates that all
security doors of this color are now
unlocked for all marines for the rest of
WEAPON TOKENS
These tokens represent the weapons found
in the Mars base that the marines can use
against the invaders. When a marine picks
up a weapon token, he simply places it on
his reference sheet to show that he has the
weapon. Remember that a marine can only
fire a given weapon if he has at least one
ammo token of the corresponding type.
ADRENALINE TOKENS
These tokens represent a drug that can
boost a marine’s speed. When a marine
picks up an adrenaline token, he places it
by his equipment. At the start of a later
turn, the marine may discard the adrena-
line token to add 4 spaces to his move-
ment for the turn.
BERSERK TOKENS
These tokens represent a drug that drives a
marine berserk. When a marine picks up a
berserk token, he immediately places it by
his equipment bin with the unfaded side
up. 
While a marine possesses a berserk token
he may only attack with his fists, but any
hit will instantly kill any invader,
regardless of the invader’s armor or
wound rating.
The effects of the berserk token quickly fade. At the end of the
marine’s next turn, he turns the token over, revealing the half-
faded side. Then, at the end of the following turn, he discards the
berserk token. If the marine is fragged, he must immediately dis-
card the berserk token.
EXPLORING
Whenever a marine has line of sight to an unrevealed portion of the
board, it is immediately revealed by the invader player. The invader
player sets up the new area of the board, places monsters, equip-
ment, and other tokens. Once the new section of the board has been
set up as directed by the scenario, the invader player reads aloud a
bit of text from the Scenario Guide that describes the new area.
Play then continues where it left off. For a more detailed description
of this process, please see the cover of the Scenario Guide.
FRAGS & KILLS
When an invader receives a number of wounds equal to its wound
rating, it is killed. Killed invaders are simply removed from the
board along with their wound tokens. The invader figure is
returned to the invader player’s reserves, and the wound tokens are
returned to the pile near the board. Killed invader figures may
return to the board again as needed (when revealing a new area or
when the invader player plays a spawn card).
When a marine removes the last wound token from his equip-
ment bin, he is fragged. Remove the fragged marine figure from
the board, remembering which space he last occupied.
When a marine is fragged, the marine player returns his starting
wound and armor tokens to his equipment bin. If a fragged
marine has managed to pick up additional armor tokens, he must
now discard back down to the armor tokens he started the game
with. Any berserk token on a fragged marine is also discarded. A
marine’s other equipment tokens (weapons, armor, etc.) and his
marine cards are not affected by being fragged.
After reconciling his equipment bin, the fragged marine must wait
until the start of his next turn to respawn on the board. 
During his next turn, before announcing his action, the marine
player places his figure back on the board by following these rules:
• The respawn space must be a revealed empty space.
• The respawn space must be at least 8 spaces away from the
space where the marine was fragged.
• The respawn space must be no more than 16 spaces away from
the space where the marine was fragged.
If all the above points cannot be met, the marine will respawn in
the space that corresponds to the rules as closely as possible. If
multiple such spaces exist, the marine player may choose which
one he wants to respawn at.
After a marine has been fragged, the invader player takes a
wound token from the pile near the board and keeps it as a “frag
point.” In the KNEE DEEP IN THE DEAD scenario, as soon as the
invader player accumulates 6 frag points, he immediately wins
MARINE ORDERS
When a marine chooses to take a ready action at the beginning of
his turn (see Marine Player’s Turn, pg. 6), he my place one of the
three orders (aim, guard, or dodge) next to his marine on the
board. Note that the special heal order may also be placed, but only
by a marine who drew the Medic marine card at the beginning of
A marine can only have one order at any one time. A marine
that has already been issued an order cannot receive another
order until the first order is used or removed (see next page).
When a door is closed,
it sits on one of the
lines between spaces.
When a door is
opened, set it to one
side of the board.
Doors
Key Tokens
Health Token 
Weapon Tokens 
Berserk Token 
Adrenaline
Token 
Armor Token 
Ammo Tokens

AIM
A marine that has placed an aim order may make
an aimed attack. 
Before this marine rolls dice for an attack, he may
discard the aim order to declare that he is mak-
ing an aimed attack. This allows him to re-roll any number of
dice after rolling for the attack (including any dice showing the
“miss” result). The marine must keep the second result.
Example: A marine declares that he is making an aimed attack,
and discards his aim order. He then attacks an imp using his pistol.
The player rolls 1 yellow and 1 green die. The yellow die rolls a
miss, so he chooses to re-roll this result hoping for a better out-
come. Whatever he rolls, the marine is stuck with the second result.
An aim order stays with a marine until discarded by one of the fol-
lowing events: 1) the marine takes 1 or more wounds, 2) the marine
moves 1 or more spaces, or 3) the marine discards the order to make
an aimed attack.
GUARD
A marine that has placed a guard order may make
an interrupt attack.
At any point during the invader player’s turn, a
marine may discard his guard order to immedi-
ately interrupt the invader player’s turn and make one attack (fol-
lowing all the normal rules for line of sight and attacking). The
invader player’s turn is immediately halted (even if the invader
player was about to attack with an invader figure), allowing the
marine to resolve his interrupt attack. After the interrupt attack is
completed and any casualties are removed, the invader player may
continue his turn.
The invader player must allow for an interrupt attack at any time,
and must reverse any movement/attack if it was made too fast for
the marine player to have a chance to declare an interrupt attack. If
a marine player declines to make an interrupt attack, however, he
may not change his mind later.
A guard order stays with a marine until discarded by one of the fol-
lowing events: 1) the marine takes 1 or more wounds, 2) the begin-
ning of the marine’s next turn, or 3) the marine discards the order to
make an interrupt attack.
DODGE
A marine that has placed a dodge order, may, when
attacked, force his attacker (usually the invader
player) to re-roll any number of dice used in the
attack. The marine player may only do this once for
each attack, and must accept the second result.
Example: A marine has placed a dodge order and is later attacked
by a zombie. The invader player rolls 1 red die and 1 blue die. The
marine can force the zombie to re-roll either one or both of the
attack dice, but he can only do this once per attack.
A dodge order stays with a marine until the start of his next turn
(which means that he can “dodge” multiple attacks).
Important: If an aimed attack is made against a dodging target,
both abilities are ignored for that attack. 
HEAL (SPECIAL ORDER)
Only a marine with the Medic card can place a
heal order. 
A marine that has placed a heal order may discard
this order from the board at any time to heal
either himself or a marine in an adjacent space. The healed
marine may return 1 wound token to his equipment bin (a marine
at full health may not be healed). This ability may be used before
an attack—but not after the attack dice have been rolled. Thus,
any damage dealt by an attack must be resolved before a heal
order can be used.
Example: A marine with the Medic card has readied a heal order
during his last action. He is now standing next to another marine
with only 3 wounds remaining. An invader is about to attack the
weaker marine, but the medic decides not to use the heal order at
this time. The invader makes a strong attack roll that deals 3
wounds to the marine, fragging him. It is now too late for the medic
to heal the marine. The frag could have been prevented, of course,
if the medic had decided to use the heal order before the attack.
A heal order stays with a marine until discarded by one of the fol-
lowing events: 1) the beginning of the marine’s next turn, or 2) the
marine discards the order to heal himself or another marine.
Important: Only a marine with the medic card may ever place
or use a heal order.
MELEE ATTACKS
Melee attacks represent close combat between figures in DOOM:
THE BOARD GAME. Melee attacks are most often used by the
invaders, but the marines may sometimes also have to resort to
melee attacks. A weapon or invader with a red bottom bar on the
reference sheet may only make melee attacks. A melee attack
works just like a normal attack, with the following exceptions.
• A melee attack can only target an adjacent space.
• A melee attack only misses if a miss result is rolled. Range
results are ignored during melee attacks.
MOVEMENT ACTIONS
Besides moving, figures can use some or all of their movement
allowance to perform other tasks. The following table lists these
tasks and the number of spaces required to execute them:
Spaces
Used
Task
Pick up a token in your space*
Move from one teleporter to another *
Move from one duct to another ** 
Give 1 weapon or ammo token to adjacent marine*
Open or close normal door
Open or close security door***
 Can be performed even with no movement
* Marine players only
** Invader figures with the scuttle ability only
*** Marine only, and only when unlocked 
BLOCKING OBSTACLES
Blocking obstacles block line of sight as well
as movement through the spaces they occu-
py. However, attacks that do not require line
of sight (such as seeking attacks) may trace
their range through blocking obstacles.
DAMAGING OBSTACLES
Damaging obstacles do not block line of
sight or movement. Whenever a figure
enters a space occupied by a damaging
obstacle, that figure suffers 1 automatic
wound, regardless of armor. If a marine is
fragged in this manner, the frag gives the
invader player one frag point (if applicable
to the scenario).
A figure that remains on a damaging obsta-
cle for its entire turn/activation automatical-
ly takes an additional wound at the end of
its turn/activation.
Important: A figure that is moved into a
damaging obstacle via the knockback ability
(see the back of this rules booklet for more
information on this special ability), must
immediately take a wound, but will not take
an additional wound (for being in the space)
during its own turn/activation unless it
decides to stay in the space.
EXPLODING BARRELS
These obstacles block line of sight and move-
ment like blocking obstacles. If an exploding
barrel suffers even 1 point of damage (either
from a direct attack or the blast from an
attack), the barrel immediately explodes.
Remove the barrel from the board and deal 1
automatic wound to all figures adjacent to it.
Both invaders and marines may target spaces
that contain barrels.
TELEPORTERS
Teleporters allow instant movement from one
part of the board to another. By using a single
space of movement, a marine (but not an
invader) may move from a space containing
a teleporter to any space containing another
teleporter of the same color.
A marine may move via teleporter even if the
other end of the teleporter has not yet been
revealed. In this case, the new area is imme-
diately revealed by the invader player (see
Exploring, pg. 9). If the new area is not yet
connected to the rest of the map, simply keep
the two parts of the map separate until an area
is revealed that joins them (assuming one
exists).
DUCTS
Ducts work like teleporters, with the following
exceptions:
• Ducts can only be used by invaders, and then
only by invaders with the scuttle ability.
• An invader can, with one space of move-
ment, move from any duct to any other duct
on the board.
• Invaders cannot move to ducts that are not
revealed or that are blocked (stood upon) by a
marine (i.e., ducts cannot reveal areas or be
used to telefrag).
Guard Order
Heal Order
Dodge Order
The blue marine has readied a guard order, and is
waiting for the zombie to come around the corner
in order to be in his line of sight. After the zombie
has started moving, the marine decides to discard
his guard order and make his interrupt attack
after the zombie has moved into the third space.
Guarding Example
Blocking Obstacles
Damaging Obstacle
Exploding
Barrel
Duct
Teleporters
Aim Order

TELEFRAGS
When a teleporting marine materializes inside another creature,
that creature explodes. In other words, if a marine teleports into
a space containing all or a part of an invader figure, the invader
is automatically killed. It is not possible for the invader player to
block off teleporters by standing on them.
OVERSIZED INVADERS
Some invaders take up 2 or even 4 spaces. The following special
rules are associated with oversized figures:
• Oversized figures occupy all of the spaces they fill. Line of sight
can be traced to or from the center of any of those spaces.
• Oversized figures can only be targeted once by a single attack,
even if a blast or sweep attack covers multiple spaces occupied by
the figure. Likewise, oversized figures only take 1 wound from
damaging obstacles per move, no matter how many spaces con-
taining damaging obstacles they enter.
• Demons occupy 2 spaces. A demon must move in one of the fol-
lowing two ways 1) The demon moves one half of its body into a
non-diagonal adjacent space while the other half of its body moves
into the space that the first half just vacated, or 2) The demon moves
to a diagonally adjacent space by moving both halves of its body
in the same diagonal direction (also called “sidestepping”). Both
types of movement are illustrated in the accompanying diagram.
• Other oversized figures (mancubus, hell knight, and cyberdemon)
each occupy 4 spaces. When moving, these figures move like reg-
ular figures, and must always occupy four existing spaces, as
shown in the diagram.
RE-ROLLS
There are two main effects that cause dice re-rolls in DOOM: THE
BOARD GAME. These are dodges and aimed attacks. All re-rolls
work the same way. The player causing the re-roll chooses one or
more of the dice involved in the attack, and then the attacker rolls
those dice again, keeping the new result. Under no circumstances
may a single attack ever be re-rolled more than once. If an
attack is affected by both a dodge (whether via a marine order or
the invader dodge card) and an aimed attack (again, regardless of
how the attack came to be aimed), then the two effects cancel each
other out and the attack is not re-rolled at all.
SCATTER
Some weapons have the blast ability (see the back cover of this
rules booklet). These weapons will scatter if they miss (whether
they missed because of insufficient range or by a miss result),
meaning that they will deviate from their intended target space. 
If a blast attack misses, determine its new destination by drawing
the top card of the invader deck and consulting the scatter diagram
on the bottom of the card. Turn it so that the compass rose on the
card is facing the same direction as the compass rose token on the
board. Then find the space indicated by the number and direction
shown from the original target space. If moving to this new space
from the original target space does not pass through any walls,
blocking obstacles, or through a closed door, the attack will hit this
new space instead of its original target. 
If the scatter movement causes the attack to move through a wall,
blocking obstacle, or move through a closed door, the attack
explodes harmlessly.
Some scatter diagrams show a “miss” icon. If such a card is drawn,
there is no scatter movement and the attack explodes harmlessly
and with no effect. See the diagram for a detailed example of scat-
ter movement.
The drawn invader card is discarded after use. If this was the last
card in the deck, the invader player scores an automatic frag point,
and then reshuffles the discard pile into a new invader deck.
TIMING AND “START OF TURN”
Whenever there is a question of timing, such as to whether an
event card can go off before a marine can take an action, etc., the
event card always receives precedence as long as the invader
player declares his intent to play the event card in a timely fash-
ion. This is also true for the marine guard order.
Example: The “Dark Energies” card reads, “Play immediately
before a marine attacks an invader. Remove 1 wound from an
invader of your choice.” If a marine player doesn’t give the
invader player the opportunity to play a card before he attacks
and just starts rolling dice, the invader player can quickly inter-
rupt and play his card before the attack is resolved.
Many invader event cards contain the phrase “Play at the start of
your turn.” These cards must be played after the invader play-
er has discarded down to 8 cards for the turn, but before he
has activated his first invader for the turn.
Event cards that say “Play immediately before a marine takes his
turn” can be played until the marine player declares his
action. As always, the invader player should be given a reason-
able chance to play his cards first.
Credits
Game Design: Kevin Wilson
Additional Design & Development: Christian T. Petersen
Rules: Kevin Wilson, Greg Benage, & Christian T. Petersen
Editing: Darrell Hardy, Greg Benage, Christian T. Petersen
Graphics by: Scott Nicely, id Software
Sculpting by: Bob Naismith
Production: Darrell Hardy
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: The FFG Staff, the Last Chance Playtesters, the
Blue Mancubus Group, Wil Hindmarch, Scott Reeves.
Special Thanks to: Team XYZZY, Marty Stratton, Todd
Hollenshead, and all the other wonderful people at id Software
for allowing us to make this game.
For additional scenarios, or to post
your own DOOM scenarios, visit:
WWW.FANTASYFLIGHTGAMES.COM
DOOM The Boardgame © 2004 Id Software, Inc. All rights
reserved. DOOM and DOOM 3 characters and images © 2004 Id
Software, Inc. All rights reserved. DOOM and ID are registered
trademarks of Id Software, Inc. in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office and/or some other countries. All Id Software, Inc. property
is used under license. © 2004 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc.
TM
The Cyberdemon moves
right, then diagonally to
the upper right, then up.
First the Demon moves left,
then up (its back half fol-
lowing its front half), and
then sidesteps.
Oversized figure
movement Example
The top card of the deck is turned face up and
shows that the missed grenade attack has scat-
tered 4 spaces back towards a marine. Ouch!
Scatter Example
FANTASY FLIGHT GAMES

SPECIAL Abilities
ACCURACY
After attacking with the accuracy ability, add 1 to the range for
each accuracy icon (e.g., a roll that shows a range of 3 would be
increased to 5 if the invader/weapon has two accuracy icons).
AIMED
Attacks with the aimed ability are aimed attacks as per the
aim marine order (see Marine Orders, pg. 9).
BLAST
Attacks with the blast ability affect an area within X spaces of the
target space, where X is equal to the number of blast icons of the
weapon. Blast areas cannot pass through walls, closed doors, or block-
ing obstacles. The blast attack deals its full damage to each figure
affected by it. If a blast attack is dodged by more than one figure, only
one re-roll may be made (the first dodging player to the attacking play-
er’s left decides which dice (if any) are to be re-rolled). Finally, if a
blast attack misses, it can scatter (see Scatter, pg. 11).
BLOW-THROUGH
Attacks with the blow-through ability can be “walked” into
multiple spaces, one after the other. After the initial attack on the target
space is made (regardless of whether it hits or not), the attacker may
roll another attack against a space adjacent to the target space by
removing either 1 green or 1 blue die from the attack. For example, if
a blow-through attack rolls 1 yellow and 1 green die for the first attack,
the attacker could immediately attack a space adjacent to the first tar-
geted square, but the second attack would only roll 1 yellow die. 
The attacker may continue “walking” his attack as long as he drops 1
green or blue die for each attack made. The attacker cannot make mul-
tiple blow-through attacks against the same target during one attack.
DEADLY
After rolling for an attack with the deadly ability, add +1 to the
damage of the attack for each deadly icon (e.g., a damage roll of 3
would be increased to 5 for an attack with two deadly icons).
KNOCKBACK
After inflicting at least 1 damage to a figure with a knock-
back attack (and after applying any wounds), the attacker
may immediately move each affected target figure up to 3 spaces
away from its current location. The figures must be moved to empty
spaces, although these spaces may contain damaging obstacles or
other non-blocking tokens, such as equipment. This “knock back”
movement is not blocked by any intervening figures or obstacles
(though it cannot be moved through a closed door or wall).
SCUTTLE
Invaders with the scuttle ability can move between ducts as
if the ducts were adjacent to each other. Scuttling invaders cannot
move to a duct space occupied by a marine figure, or one that is not
yet revealed.
SEEKING
Seeking attacks do not need line of sight to the target square.
They still cannot pass through a closed door (or wall), but they can
pass through blocking obstacles. The maximum range of a seeking
attack is 8 spaces.
SWEEP
Sweep attacks affect all enemy figures adjacent to the
attacker. The sweep attack deals its full damage to each figure affect-
ed by it. If a sweep attack is dodged by more than one figure, only one
re-roll may be made (the first dodging player to the attacking player’s
left decides which dice (if any) are to be re-rolled).
WATCHFUL
Figures with the watchful ability may immediately take one
free attack against any enemy figure that moves into an adjacent space.
This attack takes place before the moving figure may take any other
action. There is no limit to the number of free attacks a watchful invad-
er can make in this manner. If the same figure makes more than one
move into spaces that are adjacent to the watchful creature, the creature
may make one free attack for every such move.
Round Sequence
EACH ROUND CONSISTS OF:
Turn 1: First Marine Player’s Turn
Turn 2: Second Marine Player’s Turn 
Turn 3: Third Marine Player’s Turn 
Turn 4: Invader Player’s Turn
Marine Player’s Turn
The marine player must first choose between one of the four actions
below. A marine player cannot do anything until he has first
declared which of the four actions he will be taking. After the marine
has resolved his entire action, his turn is over and play passes to the left.
Action
Attacks
Sprint
Unload
Advance
Ready
or
Place Order
Movement Action Costs
Spaces
Used
Task
Pick up a token in your space*
Move from one teleporter to another *
Move from one duct to another ** 
Give 1 weapon or ammo token to adjacent marine*
Open or close normal door
Open or close security door***
 Can be performed even with no movement
* Marine players only
** Invader figures with the scuttle ability only
*** Marine only, and only when unlocked 
Marine Orders 
AIM: A marine may discard his aim order to announce that one of
his attacks is an aimed attack. After rolling for the attack, he
may then re-roll some or all of the dice. He must keep the
second result. This order is also discarded immediately if the
marine moves, or if he receives a wound.
DODGE: When attacked, a marine who has placed the dodge order
may force some or all of the attacking dice to be re-rolled.
He must accept the second result. This order is discarded at
the start of the marine’s next turn.
GUARD: A marine may discard this placed order to make one
interrupt attack at any time during the invader player’s
turn. This order is also discarded if the marine takes a
wound, or at the start of his next turn.
HEAL (MEDIC ONLY): A medic may discard this order to
heal 1 wound to himself or to a marine in an adjacent
space. This order is also discarded at the start of the
marine’s next turn.
The marine throws a grenade
around the corner at the
zombie. The range is 4
spaces.
First Attack
Blow-Through Example
Knockback Example
Seeking Example
Second Attack
After successfully
attacking the marine,
the hell knight knocks
him 3 spaces onto a
damaging obstacle. The
marine loses 1 wound
from landing there (in
addition to any wounds
incurred in the attack).
After attacking the adjacent zombie with his chain
gun weapon, the marine can drop two green dice (one
for each space) to attack the other zombie.
Blast Example
Blasts can be blocked by walls and obstacles.