[1] 
 
INTRODUCTORY RULES 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1. Card Types 
2. Winning the Game 
3. Setup 
4. Phases of a Turn: The Basics 
5. Shootouts 
6. Jobs 
7. Key Terms and Concepts 
8. Phases of a Turn: More Details 
9. FAQ 
10. Hand Ranks 
 
 
1. Card Types 
 
Below you’ll find descriptions of all the card types included in these introductory decks (there’s 
a couple more types that can be found in the game’s full rulebook). 
 
In addition to a title, each card has a textbox. If you see any words in bold at the top of a textbox 
(such as Deputy or Saloon), these are keywords. These may be referenced by other cards, or by 
the rules. Below that are abilities and traits. Traits are plain text, and always active, whereas 
abilities begin with a phrase in bold indicating when you can play the ability (e.g. “Noon:” 
indicates an ability to be used as a Noon play). 
 
Outfits 
 
This card serves as the home for your gang. It’s where your dudes enter 
play, and it’s where they can (usually) be safe from the other players’ dudes. 
When a card references your “home” location, it’s referencing the location 
defined by your outfit card. Some cards will still refer to this as your 
“outfit,” though. 
 
Your home is the first location on your street, and you can play deeds to the 
left and right of it. The town square is an unmarked location between each player’s street. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[2] 
Each outfit has a particular symbol and background frame. Dudes in your outfit all share that 
symbol and background. If a dude has a different symbol and background, they are from a 
different outfit. If the dude has no symbol at all, they’re a drifter with no real allegiance to any 
outfit in particular. 
 
Each outfit has a starting stash, shown on a stack of money icon. This shows how much ghost 
rock (the currency in Doomtown) the outfit starts with and can spend on starting dudes. Each 
outfit also has production, shown on a skull icon. This shows how much ghost rock your outfit 
produces each Upkeep. 
 
Dudes 
 
Townsfolk are represented by dude cards. Dudes are people that owe you 
their loyalty, and work to further your goals by their influence, their innate 
abilities, or their skills with a revolver. 
 
Each dude has a specific suit (♠ spades) and value assigned to it. These are 
mostly used to create poker hands during the game, but can also be used for 
other effects. 
 
Bullets are a measure of a dude’s capability to win a shootout. The higher the number, the better 
they are at gunning down the other side. In addition, the color of the bullet cartridge determines 
whether the dude is a stud or a draw; a silver cartridge means the dude is a stud (which is better), 
while a brass cartridge indicates the dude is a draw (less stellar, but still useful). 
 
Influence (seen on top of a red poker chip) represents how renowned the dude is around town. 
The primary use of influence is to prevent other players from winning, and to control deeds in 
order to help you win. 
 
Each dude has a cost, shown on a coin icon. This is how much ghost rock you have to pay to 
bring the dude into play. Upkeep (seen on a skull icon) shows how much the dude costs each 
turn to keep them in play (although some dudes have zero upkeep). Dudes that belong to outfits 
other than your own have additional upkeep equal to their influence. 
 
Deeds 
 
Deeds are buildings and properties that provide special abilities or game 
effects, and, once brought into play, cannot be moved. When you bring a 
deed into play, it goes on the street on your side of town (unless it is Out of 
Town). 
 
Each deed card has a specific suit (♦ diamonds) and value assigned to it. 
 
Many deeds have control points, shown on a blue poker chip. The more 
control points a deed has, the more important it is to Gomorra’s citizens. The most important 
thing about control points is they are how you win the game. 

 
 
 
 
 
[3] 
 
Like dudes, each deed has a cost, shown on a coin icon. Like your outfit, each deed also has 
production, shown on a skull icon. 
 
Goods 
 
Goods cards represent items that your dudes can own, from new hats to 
horses and everything in between. Goods can’t be used by themselves, but 
must be attached to another card you already have in play (usually a dude). 
 
Each goods card has a specific suit (♥ hearts) and value assigned to it. 
 
Some goods provide a bullet bonus, shown in the same place as bullets on a 
dude. The color of the bullet on a goods card does not change the bullet 
color of the dude carrying it (unless the card says otherwise). Similarly, goods can also provide 
influence and control point bonuses (seen on red and blue chips, respectively). 
 
Each goods card has a cost, shown on a coin icon. 
 
Actions 
 
Action cards represent special events, plans, and tactics that your dudes or 
your gang use to get the best of the situation. Unlike other cards in the 
game, action cards are generally played directly from your hand; you do not 
bring them into play, but instead resolve their effect, and then usually 
discard them once their effect is complete. 
 
Each action card has a specific suit (♣ clubs) and value assigned to it. 
 
If an action card has multiple abilities listed, choose and declare the one you wish to use. 
 
Each action card has a cost (often zero), shown on a coin icon. 
 
Jokers 
 
Jokers are usually only useful for pulls and draw hands. You can’t play one 
from your play hand (unless specified on the joker itself). When a joker is 
revealed for a pull or in a draw hand, its suit and value are chosen by its 
owner as soon as the joker is revealed. 
 
A joker by itself will never make a hand cheatin’; for example, if you have a 
legal four-of-a-kind draw hand with a joker, it becomes a legal five-of-a-kind draw hand. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[4] 
2. Winning the game 
 
The goal of Doomtown Reloaded is to control the town of Gomorra. This is done by having more 
control points on dudes and deeds you control than your opponent’s influence at Sundown (the 
end of a turn). 
 
3. Setup 
 
Each player places their outfit card (“Law Dogs” or “The Sloane Gang”) as their home in the 
middle of their street. Then, place your starting gang in play at your home, deducting their total 
cost from the starting ghost rock marked on your home – this is your stash. 
 
The starting gang for the Law Dogs is: 
 
➢ Jake Smiley 
➢ Philip Swinford 
➢ Tommy Harden 
➢ Mortimer Parsons 
➢ Willa Mae MacGowan 
 
The starting gang for the Sloane Gang is: 
 
➢ Allie Hensman 
➢ Jake Smiley 
➢ Lawrence Blackwood 
➢ Barton Everest 
➢ Jacqueline Isham 
 
This should leave 3 ghost rock in the Law Dogs’ stash, and 4 ghost rock in the Sloane Gang’s. 
 
Then, shuffle your deck, and draw a hand of five cards. This is the standard maximum hand size 
and referred to as your play hand. Now you’re ready to start the first turn of the game. 
 
4. Phases of a Turn: The Basics 
 
Below are outlines of the four phases played through in each turn. If you have further questions 
come up about them, make sure to check “Phases of a Turn: More Details” on pg. 10. 
 
1) Gamblin’: Each player antes up 1 ghost rock from their stash, then draws the top five 
cards of their deck as a draw hand (separate from your play hand). The lowest hand rank 
wins all the anted ghost rock and is the Winner this turn (a list of hand ranks is provided 
on pg. 13). Discard your draw hand after comparing ranks. The Winner makes the first 
play during High Noon & shootouts. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[5] 
2) Upkeep: First, collect income from deeds you both own and control. Then, pay upkeep 
for each of your dudes in play, or discard any you won’t or can’t pay upkeep for. 
 
3) High Noon: Starting with the Winner, the players go back and forth choosing to make 
one of the plays below until both players pass consecutively: 
a. Actin’: Use a Noon ability printed on a card you control, or from an action in your 
hand. Each ability on a card can only be used once per day, and Noon abilities last 
until the end of the turn. 
b. Movin’: Move one of your unbooted dudes to another location. A dude may boot 
to move to any location, or move without booting to particular adjacent locations 
(as explained in the next section). 
c. Callin’ Out: An unbooted dude can attempt to start a shootout by calling out any 
opposing dude at the same location (except at the called out dude’s home). The 
other dude may boot and go home to refuse a call out. 
d. Shoppin’: Bring a new dude, deeds, or goods into play. Dudes enter play at your 
home, deeds at either end of your street, and goods attached to a dude or deed you 
control (at a location you control). 
e. Tradin’: Switch goods between any number of your dudes at a location you 
control, as long as dudes receiving goods are unbooted. 
f. Passin’: Do nothing. Remember, if both players pass sequentially, move onto the 
Sundown phase. 
 
4) Sundown: First check for victory: if a player has more control points than their 
opponent’s influence, they win the game! If no one has won, each player then may 
discard one card from their play hand. Then, draw cards to refill your hand (or discard 
down) to the maximum hand size of 5. Each player unboots all of their booted cards and a 
new turn begins with phase 1, Gamblin’. 
 
5. Shootouts 
 
Whenever a callout is accepted or a job is opposed, posses are formed and a shootout begins. 
Whenever a dude joins a posse at a Private location owned by another player, increase that 
dude’s bounty by 1 (player’s homes are always Private, and the town square is always Public). 
 
After players form posses, move to Step 1 to begin the first round of the shootout. 
 
Forming Posses: Who Can Join a Shootout? 
➢ The player issuing the callout (referred to as the leader) forms their posse first, then the 
controller of the dude that was called out (the mark) forms their posse. 
➢ Any dude at the shootout’s location can join whether they are booted or unbooted, and 
they do not need to boot to join. 
➢ Any unbooted dude at an adjacent location can boot and move to the shootout’s location 
to join their controller’s posse. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[6] 
Shootout Round Steps 
 
Step 1: Make Shootout Plays 
 
The Winner has the first opportunity to make a shootout play, then the opposing player. The 
players go back and forth choosing to make a shootout play or pass, until both players pass 
consecutively. 
 
To make a shootout play, you may either use a Shootout ability on a card you have in the 
shootout, or from an action in your play hand. If a card has an ability that would bring a dude 
into the shootout, that ability can still be used from outside the shootout. Each ability on a card 
can only be used once per day, and Shootout abilities last until the end of the shootout. 
 
Step 2: Choose Your Shooter 
 
Select a dude in your posse to be your shooter. This dude contributes their full bullet rating 
(including any bonuses or penalties from attached cards, and from abilities affecting the dude) to 
your posse’s stud/draw bonus for forming your draw hand. 
 
Step 3: Draw! 
 
Now, calculate your stud bonus (from dudes with silver bullets) and your draw bonus (from 
dudes with brass bullets) for this draw hand. Remember, studs increase your draw hand’s size, 
while draw dudes allow you to discard and replace cards from your draw hand. To calculate your 
draw hand bonus, only your shooter contributes their full bullet amount; each other dude in your 
posse only contributes one bullet of their bullet type. 
 
After calculating your total stud and draw bonuses, build your shootout hand by drawing cards 
from the top of your deck to form a draw hand (separate from your play hand). The starting draw 
hand size is five cards, so draw that plus your posse’s stud bonus. 
 
After drawing these cards (including your stud bonus), you may then discard and redraw a 
number of cards from your draw hand up to your draw bonus. Note, you don’t have to discard 
and replace any if you don’t want to, but you do have to decide how many you discard and 
replace at once. You can’t discard and replace an additional card if you’ve already chosen to 
discard and replace some already. 
 
Lastly, discard your draw hand down to five cards, attempting to make the highest poker hand 
rank possible. 
 
For example, if you have dudes that are a 2-draw, a 0-stud and a 1-stud, you should select your 
2-draw dude as your shooter, since they’re your only dude with a bullet rating above 1, and 
backup dudes count as a bonus of 1 anyway (even your dudes with 0 bullets!). That means your 
shooter provides a 2-draw bonus, and your other dudes a 1-stud bonus each. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[7] 
Thus, with 2 stud bonus and 2 draw bonus total, draw a seven card hand (the default draw hand 
of five, plus 2 stud), and then you may discard and replace up to two cards (due to your 2 draw). 
 
Step 4: Reveal Hands and Resolution Plays 
 
Players simultaneously reveal their draw hands and have the opportunity to use any abilities 
marked Resolution or Cheatin’ Resolution. Only one Cheatin’ Resolution can be played on a 
player per shootout round, and these can only be played if that player is cheatin’ (their hand is 
impossible to make with a legal poker deck). 
 
Just like with Shootout and Noon plays, the Winner has the first opportunity to make a 
Resolution play, and then the opponent. Players go back-and-forth with the opportunity to make 
Resolution plays until both pass consecutively. Each ability on a card can only be used once per 
day, and Resolution abilities last until the end of that round of the shootout. 
 
Step 5: Take Casualties 
 
Once both players have finished making Resolution plays, compare each other’s draw hand ranks 
(a list of hand ranks is provided at the end of this document). Remember, unlike during the 
Gamblin’ phase, you want the highest hand rank possible in a shootout. For every hand rank by 
which you lose a shootout, you suffer a casualty. Dudes can be discarded to cover one casualty, 
or aced to cover two. You must attempt to cover as many casualties as possible. When a dude is 
aced or discarded, any attached cards are placed in your discard pile. 
 
For example, if you have two dudes and reveal a two-pair (rank 3) to your opponent’s full house 
(rank 7), you suffer four casualties. You must ace both your dudes to cover four casualties (rather 
than discarding them for two) to cover as many as possible. 
 
If shootout hands are tied for the same rank, then both players suffer one casualty each. To 
determine the winner for the round (which matters in Step 6 below), the higher hand within that 
rank wins that round. For example, if both players reveal a full house, but one is 8♥ 8♦ 8♣ 6♦ 6♣ 
and the other is 5♦ 5♥ 5♣ 3♠ 3♦, the first hand is higher and that player wins the shootout round. 
 
Steps 6: Stand or Run 
 
First, the loser of the shootout round decides if they want any of their dudes to leave the shootout 
and go home booted (even if they are already booted). Then, the winner of the round decides if 
they want any of their dudes to leave the shootout and go home booted (even if already booted). 
 
Step 7: Chamber Another Round 
 
Both players discard their draw hand. If only one posse if left (because the other posse fled or it 
was wiped out) then the shootout ends. Otherwise, begin a new shootout round at Step 1. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[8] 
6. Jobs 
 
If a card is marked as a job (for example, Kidnappin’ says Noon Job, Boot), that means using it 
begins a job to try and pull off a powerful play. To use such an action, you choose one of your 
unbooted dudes (at any location) to be the leader for the job. If a job indicates “Boot” (like 
Kidnappin’ does), this means have to boot the dude to start the job. The job will also have you 
choose a particular object in the game (usually a dude or location) as the mark (the job’s target). 
 
Then, the leader forms a posse for the job (detailed below), after which your opponent has the 
opportunity to let the job succeed automatically, or they can attempt to oppose it. If they don’t 
oppose, the job automatically succeeds, and you send your posse home booted. If your opponent 
opposes the job, they form a posse, and the job’s success will be determined by a shootout. 
 
Who Can Join the Leader’s Posse? 
➢ Any of your dudes at the same location as, or adjacent to the location of, the dude leading 
the job. These dudes must boot to join. 
➢ Any of your dudes at the mark’s location. These dudes do not boot to join, and can join 
even if booted. 
➢ Any of your dude’s adjacent to the mark’s location. These dudes must boot to join. 
 
Who Can Join the Opposing Posse? 
➢ If a dude is marked by the job, they may join the opposing posse, but does not have to. 
➢ Any of the opposing player’s dudes at the mark’s location. These dudes do not boot to 
join, and can join even if booted. 
➢ Any of the opposing player’s dudes adjacent to the mark’s location. These dudes must 
boot to join. 
 
Once both player’s posses are formed, they move to the mark’s location and start a shootout. If 
the leader's posse wins the shootout, the job succeeds. Otherwise, the job fails. Survivors in the 
leader’s posse return home booted, while the posse opposing a job remains at its current location. 
 
7. Key Terms and Concepts 
 
Aced: Aced cards are sent to Boot Hill. 
 
Adjacency: 
➢ Locations on each player’s street are adjacent to each location immediately to their left 
and right on the same street. 
➢ The town square is adjacent to all in-town locations. 
➢ Out of Town deeds are not adjacent to any other location, even other Out of Town deeds. 
➢ Locations on your street are not adjacent to any locations on your opponent’s street. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[9] 
Boot: Turn a card sideways to indicate it is booted. A booted card cannot be booted to use 
abilities that require booting. Only cards in play can be booted. 
 
Boot Hill: Boot Hill is separate from your discard pile, and represents the graveyard where aced 
cards are sent. This pile of cards is never shuffled back in to your deck. 
 
Bounty: Ghost rock placed on a dude that is collected when an opposing player aces that dude. 
Dudes with bounty are considered wanted. 
 
Cheatin’: Draw hands are considered either legal or illegal (the latter is also known as cheatin’). 
A draw hand is legal if it does not contain any cards (other than jokers) that share the same suit 
and value. A draw hand is cheatin’ if there are at least two cards in it (other than jokers) that 
share the same suit and value. After a player reveals a cheatin’ draw hand, other players have the 
opportunity to resolve Cheatin’ Resolutions and other game effects. 
 
Control: You control all dudes and goods you bring into play, as well as your outfit. No one 
controls the town square. Deeds are a little different: the player with the most influence at a deed 
controls that location (owner wins ties). While controlling a deed, that player can use its abilities 
and counts its control points towards their total during Sundown. 
 
Discard Pile: After you play an action or a card is discarded from play, it goes in to your discard 
pile. Whenever your deck is empty and you need to draw or pull a card, shuffle your discard pile 
to make a new deck. 
 
Home: The location represented by your outfit card. Other players cannot control your home, 
and it is always Private. Dudes cannot be called out at their own homes without a card effect. 
Your home is a location, but it is not a deed. 
 
Horses: Each dude can only have one Horse at a time. If a dude ever has more than one Horse 
attached, immediately discard attached Horses till they only have one. 
 
In-Town: All deeds are in town unless they have the Out of Town keyword. 
 
Negative Numbers: A dude’s value, influence, and bullet rating each have a minimum value of 
zero. If modifiers would reduce it below zero, those modifiers remain in place to interact with 
any subsequent modifiers. For example, if a dude with a bullet rating of 1 receives a -2 bullet 
penalty, their bullet rating is considered 0. However, if that dude receives a subsequent +1 bullet 
bonus, the -2 bullet penalty remains in effect, so their bullet rating would still be 0 (1+1-2). 
 
Owned: Any card that came from your deck is a card that you own. 
 
Private: If a shootout takes places at a Private location, all dudes controlled by the player who 
does not own the deed have their bounty increased by 1. Each player’s home is always Private. 
 
Pull: Reveal the top card of your deck, check its suit and value, then discard the card. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[10] 
Town Square: The town square is a Public location that is adjacent to each player’s home and 
each in-town deed. No player ever controls the town square (so you cannot attach goods to your 
dudes in the town square). Town square is a location, but it is not a deed. 
 
Unbooted: A card that is not booted. 
 
Unique: All dudes and deeds are Unique by default, and other cards can be if they have the 
Unique keyword. Each player can only have one copy of a Unique card in play. 
 
Wanted: Dudes with any amount of bounty are considered wanted. Whenever you make a play 
that discards or aces an opposing wanted dude, or you discard or ace an opposing wanted dude in 
a shootout, you collect that dude’s ghost rock bounty. 
 
Weapons: Each dude can only have one Weapon at a time. If a dude ever has more than one 
Weapon attached, immediately discard attached Weapons till they only have one. 
 
8. Phases of a Turn: More Details 
 
1) Gamblin’ 
➢ Each player takes one ghost rock from their stash and places it in the middle of the table 
as their ante. If you don’t have enough ghost rock to ante up, borrow one ghost rock from 
the bank, and pay back the borrowed ghost rock during your upkeep this turn. 
➢ After anteing, each player reveals the top five cards of their deck as a draw hand. Use the 
draw hand to make a poker hand, then discards these cards. 
➢ This is a round of lowball poker, where the lowest hand wins. The Winner claims all the 
ghost rock that was anted up and adds it to their stash, and has the first opportunity to 
make a play during High Noon and any shootouts this turn. 
➢ If your opponent’s draw hand is illegal (a hand that cannot be made in a standard poker 
deck), you may use a single Cheatin’ Resolution on a card you control or from your hand. 
 
2) Upkeep 
➢ Collect income from your home and each deed you both own and control. You cannot 
collect income from your opponent’s deeds even if you control them. However, 
controlling your opponent’s deed does stop them from collecting its production. 
➢ After collecting your production, pay upkeep for each dude you control with an upkeep 
cost. You may choose not to pay a dude’s upkeep. If so, the dude is discarded from play. 
➢ A stack of poker chips, chits, or other tokens is ideal for tracking the size of your stash. 
➢ If you had to borrow from the bank for your lowball ante during the Gamblin’ phase, you 
have to pay the bank back before paying other upkeep costs (but after collecting 
production). 
 
3) High Noon 
➢ The Winner gets the first opportunity to make a play, then the opposing player. 
 
a. Actin’ 

 
 
 
 
 
[11] 
➢ In general, abilities on dudes, deeds, and goods can only be used while in they’re in play, 
whereas abilities on actions are used from your play hand. 
 
b. Movin’ 
➢ An unbooted dude can boot to move to any location in town or Out of Town. 
➢ An unbooted dude can make the following moves without booting: 
o From your home to an adjacent location (generally, the town square, or a deed on 
your street located directly to the left or right of your home). 
o From the town square to any adjacent location except your home. This means 
dudes can move to any in-town deed or your opponent’s home without booting, 
but will generally need to boot to move onwards from there. 
 
c. Callin’ Out 
➢ Any unbooted dude can call out an opposing dude at the same location, who can refuse 
by moving home booted. If a dude is booted, they cannot refuse a call out. 
➢ Dudes cannot be called out at their home, except by card effects. 
➢ The dude being called out is referred to as the mark. 
 
d. Shoppin’ 
➢ Spend ghost rock equal to the cost in the bottom left corner of a card to hire a new dude, 
attach a goods to a card already in play, or build a new deed. 
➢ New dudes enter play at your home unless specified otherwise. 
➢ Goods can only be attached to dudes at locations you control. 
➢ Newly purchased in-town deeds are placed at either end of your street. They cannot be 
squeezed between existing deeds, or an existing deed and your home. 
➢ Out of Town deeds are placed off to the side and are not on your street. They are not 
adjacent other locations. 
 
e. Tradin’ 
➢ Booted and unbooted dudes at the same location you control can exchange goods, but 
each goods can only be traded once per day, and only unbooted dudes can receive goods. 
 
f. Passin’ 
➢ If all players do this sequentially, the turn proceeds to its final phase, Sundown. 
➢ You can pass and then make other plays again later in the Noon phase. You are not 
locked into continuously passing if you have done so previously. 
 
4) Sundown 
➢ If you have more control points than your opponent has influence at the beginning of 
Sundown, then you win the game! 
➢ If each player has more control points than their opponent’s influence, the player with the 
most control points wins the game. If tied for control, the player with most influence 
wins. If those are tied, the game continues for another turn. 
➢ If you used The Sloane Gang outfit’s ability to get a control point this turn, you don’t get 
this control point until after checking for victory. 

 
 
 
 
 
[12] 
➢ Discarding a card from your hand is optional, unless you have over the maximum hand 
size and must discard down to 5. 
➢ Make sure to unboot all your cards, not just dudes, and not just deeds. 
 
9. FAQ 
 
Can I use two abilities on an action card at the same time? 
No, nice try! Some cards, such as “It’s Not What You Know…” have multiple abilities printed 
on them, but you can only use one of these abilities when you play the card. 
 
What do I do if my deck runs out of cards? 
Whenever your deck is empty and you need to draw or pull a card, simply shuffle your discard 
pile to create a new deck. 
 
How often can I use an ability on a card? 
Abilities on cards can only be used only once per turn unless they say “Repeat.” 
 
How long do abilities last? 
Unless otherwise stated, Noon abilities last until the end of the Sundown phase; Shootout 
abilities until the end of the shootout they were used in; and Resolution abilities until the end of 
the shootout round they were used in. Effects that place bounties or control points on cards are 
permanent and should be marked with poker chip, chits, or other tokens. 
 
Does Jacqueline Isham’s ability work if she is called out? 
Yes, if a dude is called out they become the mark, and dudes are always considered to be joining 
their own posse. Thus, Jacqueline Isham’s ability can be used to make her a stud when she 
accepts a callout. 
 
Does Ramiro Mendoza’s trait take effect if he is called out or issues a callout? 
Since dudes are always considered to be joining their own posse, Ramiro Mendoza’s controller 
would need to pay one ghost rock when he joins his own posse for either of these reasons. 
 
What if I’m sent home booted from a shootout when I’m already at home? 
Your dude is still at home, but has exited the posse they were in and is no longer in the shootout. 
That means even if you’re in a shootout at your home, your opponent can still Pistol Whip you 
out of the fight! 
 
What if I’m moving to join a shootout with The Stakes Just Rose, Carter’s Bounties, or 
Pinto, but I’m already at the shootout’s location? 
You can still use these cards to join the shootout even if you’re already at the location in 
question. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
[13] 
My dude gained a bounty from joining a shootout at a Private location, was sent home 
booted, but then I used The Stakes Just Rose to have them rejoin the shootout. Do they 
gain a bounty again? 
If a dude is sent out of a shootout from a Private location owned by another player, and 
subsequently rejoins the same shootout, their bounty is increased by 1 a second time. 
 
What happens if a posse is emptied of dudes during the Shootout or Resolution plays of 
a shootout? 
If one posse’s dudes are entirely removed during those steps (e.g. due to Pistol Whip, Shotgun or 
Coachwhip!), then the shootout ends immediately without proceeding to the subsequent steps. 
 
My dude got aced or discarded outside of a shootout. What happens to their attached 
goods? 
Just like when taking casualties during a shootout, if a dude is aced or discarded from play, any 
cards attached to that dude are put in your discard pile. 
 
10. Hand Ranks 
 
There are 11 hand ranks in Doomtown, defined in the following manner: 
 
11. Dead Man’s Hand 
Exactly A♣, A♠, 8♣, 8♠, J♦ 
10. Five of a Kind: Five cards of exactly the same value 
Example: A♣, A♣, A♦, A♠, A♥ 
9. Straight Flush: Contains 5 cards in sequential value, all of the same suit 
Example: A♦, 2♦, 3♦, 4♦, 5♦ 
8. Four of a Kind: Contains four cards of exactly the same value 
Example: A♣, A♠, A♥, A♦, 7♥ 
7. Full House: Contains a Three-of-a-Kind of one card value, and a pair of a different value 
Example: A♣, A♦, A♠, K♣, K♠ 
6. Flush: Contains 5 cards of all the same suit, but not in sequence 
Example: A♠, 5♠, 7♠, 8♠, 10♠ 
5. Straight: Contains 5 cards in sequential value, not all of the same suit 
Example: A♣, 2♦, 3♠, 4♦, 5♦ 
4. Three-of-a-Kind: Contains only 3 cards that share the same value 
Example: A♣, A♦, A♠, 10♣, K♠ 
3. Two Pair: Contains 2 different pairs of cards 
Example: A♣, A♦, K♠, K♣, 8♠ 
2. Pair: Contains only 2 cards that share the same value 
Example: A♣, A♦, 7♠, J♣, K♠ 
1. High Card: Contains 5 cards of different values, of mixed suits, that are not sequential in value 
Example: A♣, 3♦, 7♠, J♣, K♠