Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.1/7
​Components
48 Landscape Tiles with a green Windmill on the back (have these icons: Dark Green Forest,
Yellow Grain, Red Village Houses, Blue River, Brown-Lined Railroad, Red-and-White
Crossing, White Sheep, and various-colored Flag)
25 Task Tiles with a white comment bubble on the back (have these icons: Dark Green Forest,
Yellow Grain, Red Village Houses, Blue River, Brown-Lined Railroad)
25 Task Tokens, small (backs have these icons: Dark Green Forest, Yellow Grain, Red Village
Houses, Blue River, Brown-Lined Railroad; fronts have these numbers for each type: 1x4, 2x5,
2x6)
1 campaign sheet pad (20 sheets, large blue, one-sided)
1 score sheet pad (50 sheets, small green, two-sided)
1 insert tray (Task tokens in middle right, Task tiles left bottom, Landscape Tiles right bottom)
5 mystery boxes (discovered throughout the campaign, in top of insert tray)
​Game Setup
Shuffle all task tiles face down. Form any number of facedown stacks and place them at the edge of
your playing area.
Now shuffle all landscape tiles face down. Draw 3 and put them back in the box without looking at
them. These are not used in this game. Then form any number of face-down stacks from the remaining
tiles and place them at the edge of your playing area – separate from the task tiles.
Now shuffle the 25 task tokens face down, separated according to the 5 colors or symbols. Then place
them face down at the edge of your playing area next to the stack of task tiles.
Put the scoring and campaign blocks aside, you only need them at the end of the game.
Important: Do not open the 5 boxes until you are asked to do so!
​How to Win
Together you put tiles together to form a beautiful landscape and try to fulfill the residents' tasks, while
at the same time laying the longest possible railroad and longest river, but also taking the flags into
account. The better you succeed at this, the more points you can achieve at the end of the game.
From game to game, you can unlock new tiles with the points you score, which are hidden in the
locked boxes. These give you new, additional tasks and enable you to keep increasing your high score.

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.2/7
​Gameplay
First, determine which of you starts the game. Then, carry out your turns in clockwise task until the end
of the game (see page 5).
When it is your turn, you reveal either 1 landscape tile or 1 task tile. You place this in your playing area
according to the placement rules (see page 3). Discuss together the position where the tile should be
placed. If you don't agree on the best position, you make the final decision.
​Tile Choice and Placement
Whether you reveal a landscape tile or a task tile is subject to the following rules:
In the first 3 turns of a game, reveal 1 task tile.
Whenever you reveal a task tile, you must immediately reveal 1 matching task token, place it on the
task tile, and then place both together in the play area.
There are 5 different task types: Dark Green Forest, Yellow Grain, Red Village Houses, Blue River,
Brown-Lined Railroad.
Example: If you reveal a task tile with a forest task, reveal 1 forest task token and place it on
the tile. Then put both together in the playing area.
In each subsequent turn, first always check how many task tiles with task tokens are in your play
area:
A) If there are fewer than 3 task tiles with task tokens on them, turn over 1 new task tile and place it
with the matching task token on it according to the placement rules in the game area.
B) If there are 3 task tiles with task tokens on them, turn over 1 new landscape tile and place it in the
game area according to the placement rules.
Now for the placement rules – where and how do you have to place the tile?
The basic rule is: All tiles must always form a contiguous playing area. This means that you must
place each tile with at least 1 of its 6 edges against an edge of a tile already in the playing area.
In addition, there are only the following 2 other requirements:
You must continue edges with railroad or river. You are therefore not allowed to connect an
edge with a river to an edge without a river. (Of course, you can start several non-contiguous
railroads or rivers in your playing area.)
On the other hand, for the landscape types forest, grain and village (as well as the neutral
meadow), you can place such edges as you wish, i.e. not matching them.
[See example images in rulebook of allowed and forbidden configurations.]

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.3/7
​Completing Tasks
Each task token has a number (4, 5, or 6). This number specifies how many tiles (landscape, task,
special tiles still to be unlocked) the corresponding area or railroad / river must consist of exactly so
that this task token is considered fulfilled. (A territory consists of tiles of a landscape type that are
connected by matching edges.)
[See example images in rulebook of complete and incomplete tasks.]
If you have fulfilled a task token, place it on the edge of your playing area. For a better overview, sorts
completed task tokens individually by type next to each other. At the end of the game, completed task
tokens are one of the sources of points.
Don't forget: The next tile must be a task tile, since there are now fewer than 3 task tiles with task
tokens on it.
[See example images in rulebook of allowed task token placement.]
More details:
You may place task tokens in an area that already contains 1 or more task tokens with or
without a task token.
You may not place a task tile next to an area in such a way that the area (or railroad/river)
consists of more tiles at the moment of placement than the task token on it requires. It is also
forbidden if you would complete the area (or railroad/river) by placing the task tile (the
area therefore no longer has an open edge to fulfill the task token) and this then from less tile
would exist as the task token calls for.
However, it is permissible for a tile to be added to an area (or railroad/river) with a task token at
a later date, which then consists of more tiles than the task token requires. You must then
cancel that task and return the task token to the box. The same applies if you later complete an
area (or railroad/river) in such a way that less tiles are in it as the task token calls for.
By placing a tile, you may fulfill more than 1 task token at the same time. Remember that in
the next few turns you will continue to uncover task tiles until there are 3 task tiles with task
tokens on them in the play area.
If the stack of tasks is empty, you cannot bring additional task tiles into play. Then continue the
game by placing landscape tiles until the end of the game.
​The Flags
At the beginning of the campaign there are 3 landscape tiles with a flag: a green flag is always
associated with forest, yellow with crops, and red with the village landscape type.
Place a tile with a flag in the playing area like any other tile according to the placement rules.
Note: At the end of the game you only get points for those areas with a flag that are then closed,
i.e. the area does not have an open edge (see also the example on page 6).

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.4/7
​Game End and Scoring
As soon as you have to reveal and place a landscape tile, but all stacks of landscape tiles have been
used up, the game ends immediately. Task tiles that have not yet been revealed and placed do not come
into play in this game. (Therefore, try to keep the number of unturned task tiles as low as possible.)
If you complete a task with the last landscape tile, the game continues by revealing and placing a new
task tile – until you do not complete any more tasks.
Now calculate your points.
You need 1 score sheet per game. You then transfer the result to the campaign sheet, which you can use
to unlock new game material over several games.
​Score Sheet
But first to the score sheet (see also the figure on the top right and the example on the next page):
A. First enter in the crown how many games of the campaign you have just played.
B1-B5. Add up the numbers of all completed task tokens of one type and write the sum in the
corresponding field:
B1. Points of all completed forest tasks
B2. Points of all completed grain tasks
B3. Points of all completed village tasks
B4. Points of all completed railroad tasks
B5. Points of all completed river tasks
S1. Sum of all completed tasks
C1-C3. First of all, check which flags are in closed areas, because only these bring you points. For each
flag in a closed area, you receive as many points as the area consists of tiles. Write the sum accordingly
in the appropriate field:
C1. Points for green flags
C2. Points for yellow flags
C3. Points for red flags
D1-D2. Count how many tiles make up the longest railroad and the longest river in your playing area
(All tiles of the same type that are adjacent to one another without a break count as a railroad or river.)
In the corresponding space, note down the number of tiles on the longest railroad (D1) and the longest
river (D2). On the far right, note the sum of all points for flags, the longest railroad and the longest
river (S2).
E. At the beginning of the campaign, ignore this (Unlocked) area. You can only enter points here once
you have unlocked new game material. It is best to mark with a cross on the score sheet at the
beginning of a game which special tiles you have already unlocked. Record the sum of all points gained
in this area on the far right (S3).
F. Write down the names of all players in the game here.
G. Write down the date of the game here.
H. Enter the result (sum of S1 + S2 + S3) of your game here.

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.5/7
​Campaign Sheet
Now take the campaign sheet to hand.
First, note your result in the high score list. To do this, find the row that corresponds to your result
(round your result down to the next lower value in the column, e.g. 128 points to 120) [1]. Then enter
in the right column [2] marked with a crown, how many games you achieved this result in.
The middle field of this line [3] shows you how many of the white circles of the progress tree in the
middle of the campaign sheet you are allowed to cross out. Do this now, starting at the very bottom left
of the walker.
Always cross out one white circle after the other.
Don't count the green hexagons when crossing out, simply jump over them. After the second hexagon,
the tree forks. You are always free to choose which adjacent circle you want to cross out next –
depending on what you want to unlock next. Just note that all of the crossed out circles (across the
hexagons) must be adjacent to each other.
If you reach a green hexagon, you have unlocked something:

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.6/7
The first hexagon lets you open box 1, the second hexagon box 2. With all other hexagons, you play a
new success card from box 3 for free. Each time you open each Box 3, remove this card and any other
material (see information on the respective card) from the box. In addition, 3 places on the progress
tree will let you unlock one red heart each. Also take these from box 3.
Add unlocked materials to the instructions of the respective sheet added according to the game.
Basically:
First check what you have unlocked in the list on the far right of the campaign sheet. (The top area lists
everything you unlock via the campaign sheet from box 3, the bottom area lists everything that is
hidden in boxes 1, 2, 4 and 5.) All unlocked material is always used in all further games.
First read through the first card for the contents of an opened box. In the boxes you will see success
cards, which you place face up next to your playing area in future games. If, during a game, you fulfill
the condition on a success card, turn it over and follow the instructions on the back (“Achievement
unlocked”).
​Success Cards
The success cards are structured as follows:
FRONT: On the front side, next to the “Success Card” heading, you will always see a locked padlock
symbol. Below it is what you can unlock and what you have to achieve for it.
BACK: The headline on the back reads "Achievement Unlocked", next to it is an open padlock
symbol. On this side you will find out what you have unlocked, what you now have to do, and what the
new rules may be. (The only exception: in box 1 there is 1 card that you unlock immediately.
Accordingly, "Success unlocked" is written on the front with all the necessary information on the back.
On the back, you will find 2 examples for a better understanding.)
In subsequent games, keep still-locked success cards separately from those that you have already
unlocked.
​Unlocked Tiles
Add landscape tiles in with the other landscape tiles and task tiles with the other task tiles. Required
space for such additional tiles is in the respective compartments of the sorting insert.
As a third type of tile, you can unlock special tiles. They have the same reverse side as landscape tiles.
Special tiles have a sign on the front to distinguish them from landscape tiles.
If you can use a special tile to score points in a special way, the sign shows symbols to remind
you how you can score points.
In all other cases there is an exclamation mark shown on the sign.
Even if they have the same backside as landscape tiles, there are special rules for them in 3 situations
(each highlighted in bold on the success card). There is a separate compartment for these tiles between
the task and landscape tiles.

Dorfromantik: a cooperative tile placement game for 1-6 village romantics, age 8+ p.7/7
Important: Do not shuffle all the special tiles (i.e. the tiles with a shield) with the landscape tiles during
game preparation until you have randomly sorted out the 3 landscape tiles that do not come into play in
the respective game without looking at them!
​Starting and Stopping Campaigns
You can pause a campaign at any time to start a new one or continue another campaign in a different
group. Use the box's content cards to put material back into the correct boxes. The overview on the
right edge of the campaign sheet shows you what you have already unlocked in the respective
campaign.
How far can you push your high score?
How many games do you need to unlock all game components?