1. Object of the game
In this game, two sides stand against each other – a group of 
heroes and a dark necromancer, Zorkal the Dornkeeper, who 
summons monsters to do his bidding.
The heroes’ quest is to get to the center of the dark under-
ground labyrinth called Dorn and kill Zorkal before he man-
ages to destroy the hamlet of Argos. In order to ﬁght Zorkal, the 
heroes must ﬁrst open the Gate of Doom by retrieving three of 
the ancient Artifacts, which are scattered across the Dorn. 
The Dornkeeper’s quest is to complete a dark ritual, which 
would destroy the hamlet of Argos by opening an abyss under 
it. For this he needs to ﬁll the Ritual Chamber with monsters 
and keep it full for more than a day to complete the sacriﬁce. 
The Dornkeeper can also win the game by eliminating all the 
heroes who could ruin his plan. 
2. Setup of the heroes
2.a Choosing sides
One to ﬁve players can play for the heroes, while usually only 
one person plays the Dornkeeper. In your ﬁrst game, the Dorn-
keeper should be played by the oldest or the most experienced 
player. In subsequent games, you can draw lots by using char-
acter sheets. 
2.b Hero selection
First, the players must decide which ﬁve heroes they will choose 
for the game. One player can play for two or more heroes. For 
the ﬁrst game we recommend choosing Kaerdrak the paladin, 
Choros the dwarf warrior, Almanor the mage, Ragnar the 
swordsman, and Eleanor the elven princess. Other heroes in-
clude Gor the cleric, Guelin the ranger, Riel the archer, and 
Vargen the werewolf. You will ﬁnd the heroes’ characteristics 
and special abilities on their sheets (see appendix Hero Sheet De-
scription).
You can assemble the ﬁgures of the heroes (as well as of Zork-
al) by inserting the cards with their name and picture into the 
small plastic stands. The color of the hero should more or less 
correspond to the color of the plastic stand. The ﬁgures of the 
ﬁve selected heroes should be placed on the game board into the 
hamlet of Argos (see appendix Map of the Dorn).
2.c Hero sheet setup
Each hero starts the game on the ﬁrst level. At the beginning of 
the game, place a white playing stone on the number 1 on the 
sheet of each selected hero. This stone marks the hero’s current 
level and corresponding abilities. 
The red playing stones (also called Blood Drops) mark the 
actual hit points of the hero. The number of hit points on each 
hero’s sheet represents the starting and the maximum number 
of hit points the hero can have on the given level. Correspond-
ing amount of red playing stones should be placed on the left side 
of the hero’s sheet. The remaining Blood Drops will be placed 
next to the game board as a reserve.
Each player draws one Blessing card (blue cards with a draw-
ing of a ﬁgure between stones) for each the heroes he controls, 
looks at the card, and puts it on the table face down. Each player 
knows only his own Blessing and cannot discuss it with the 
other players.
2.d Game board setup
The hero players place 6 blue tokens of Artifacts on the blue 
spaces with a rune symbol on the game board (spaces with letter 
A in appendix Map of the Dorn).
The players then place 24 yellow tokens of Treasures on the 
yellow spaces with brown framing on the game board (spaces 
with letter P in appendix Map of the Dorn). 
3. Setup of the Dornkeeper
The player who represents the Dornkeeper places the ﬁgure 
of Zorkal on Zorkal’s throne in the room behind the Gate of 
Doom (see appendix Map of the Dorn). Then he places 4 green 
playing stones next to Zorkal’s sheet. The stones represent the 
starting and maximum number of Zorkal’s hit points until he 
levels up. The white playing stone is placed on the number 1 on 
Zorkal’s sheet, marking his actual level.
All red tokens representing strong monsters are put into the 
drawing bag.
The Dornkeeper then places his starting monsters on the six 
black spaces on the game board (the spaces are marked with letter 
N in appendix Map of the Dorn). The starting monsters are 2 zom-
bies, 1 giant rat, 1 bog beast, 1 skeleton (all brown tokens) and 
1 strong monster randomly selected from the drawing bag. For 
monster symbols and characteristics, see the appendix Monster 
Lexicon. All strong monsters and bog beasts start the game with 
two hit points. Their tokens should therefore be face up with the 
image of two skulls under the monster symbol. 
The Dornkeeper places the token of Day and Night behind 
his throne with the picture of sun face up, as the game starts 
during the Day. At the end of each of his turns, the Dornkeeper 
turns this token upside down, which also signals to the heroes 
that they can start their turn.
Finally, the Dornkeeper draws 6 Ritual cards (red cards with 
a symbol of a skull) that he keeps in secret until the moment 
they are used.
4. Gameplay
Both sides (the Dornkeeper and the heroes) take turns through-
out the game. Each turn is composed of several phases. It is im-
possible to change the order of phases during the turn. Before 
the next phase of a turn starts, all heroes and all monsters must 
complete the previous phase. The Dornkeeper starts the game. 
A) The Dornkeeper’s turn
1. One Ritual can be played, but only if the Dornkeeper ac-
quired enough Blood Drops (see Chapter 5. Ritual Cards)
2. Summoning of monsters, their number varies depending 
on Day or Night (see Chapter 7. Summoning monsters)
The only thing that could be heard in the narrow underground hallway was
the heroes’ breath. Paladin Kaerdrak turned his gloomy face back towards the 
others and placed his finger on his mouth. Absolute silence absorbed the hallway. 
Shadows of torches were dancing on the walls and a nearby junction was barely 
visible in the darkness. Suddenly they heard it, the ominous sound of scales rub-
bing against the floor. They could also hear rattling of bones and flapping of bat-
like wings nearby. The heroes moved as close to each other as they could. Al-
manor the mage started whispering some ancient protective spell. A cautious
ring could be heard as Ragnar in the back drew his silver rapier.
And then the attack came. Pale faces of those who used to be humans 
emerged from the darkness and their eyes shone with greenish light. In the hall-
way behind them a silhouette of the snake beast Gorgon arose, tall and mighty.
Dented swords of the undead started pounding at the heroes’ shields. Kaer-
drak swung his mighty axe at the advancing foes, Guelin kept shooting arrows,
and Almanor unleashed a magical fire on the monsters. The hallway was sud-
denly filled with howls, shrieks, battle cries and commands. And the first drops 
of blood fell on the granite floor, which seemed to absorb them all too eagerly…
Dorn
game rules

3. Movement of all monsters (see Chapter 8. Movement)
4. Attack of all monsters (see Chapter 9.b Attack of monsters)
5. End of Dornkeeper’s turn – the token symbolizing Day 
and Night is turned upside down
After the Gate of Doom is open, Zorkal moves and attacks 
in the same phase as monsters and rules for monsters apply to 
him as well.
B) The heroes’ turn
1. The Blessings can be played by the heroes (see Chapter 
6. The Blessing cards)
2. Movement of all heroes, including collecting Treasures 
and Artifacts, dropping them, using items, and hand-
ing them to others (see Chapter 8. Movement, Chapter 
11. Treasures and Chapter 12. Artifacts)
3. Attack or casting of spells by all the heroes (see Chapter 
9. Attack of heroes and Chapter 9.e Magic)
4. Healing of heroes – in Healing Fountains, in the ham-
let of Argos, or at the Herbalist (see Chapter 13. Game 
board)
The heroes can choose the order in which they will perform
each phase of a turn (e.g. who moves ﬁrst, who attacks ﬁrst). If
the players can’t come to an agreement, the heroes perform the 
phase in alphabetic order of their character names. 
5. Ritual Cards
At the beginning of his turn, the Dornkeeper may play one of 
his Ritual cards. To play the card, the Dornkeeper needs to pay 
a number of the Blood Drops speciﬁed on each Ritual card. He
acquires Blood Drops each time a hero loses a hit point. 
Each Ritual card can be used only once and its eﬀect will
last only until the end of turn, unless it’s speciﬁed otherwise on
the card. If the Dornkeeper starts a turn having cast all 6 Ritual 
cards, he may then use 4 Blood Drops each turn to summon 1 ad-
ditional strong monster, according to the rules for summoning. 
When in conﬂict, eﬀects of Ritual cards are stronger than
eﬀects of spells or items (for example monsters frozen by Ice
Storm can move and attack if the Sinister Shift Ritual card is 
cast on them).
6. Blessing Cards 
At the beginning of the heroes’ turn, each one of the heroes can 
play his Blessing card. If more than one hero wants to play 
their Blessing card during the same turn, the card that was ﬁrst
turned up on the table will take eﬀect ﬁrst. Each Blessing card
can be used only once per game. The heroes are not allowed to
give each other their Blessing cards, not even if one player con-
trols more than one hero. Each player keeps his Blessing card in 
secret from the Dornkeeper and the other players.
When in conﬂict, eﬀects of Blessing cards are stronger then
eﬀects of Ritual cards.
7. Summoning monsters
The Dornkeeper ﬁghts the heroes mainly through the monsters
that he remotely controls by necromantic magic. The Monster
Lexicon containing descriptions of the monsters’ symbols and 
abilities is a separate appendix to the game rules.
During the Day (every odd turn), the Dornkeeper can sum-
mon one weak monster. At Night (every even turn), he can sum-
mon either two weak or one strong monster.
If he summons a weak monster, the Dornkeeper can select 
the type of that monster. Giant rats have to be summoned to the 
Sewers, skeletons need to be summoned to the Crypt, zombies 
to the Graveyard, and bog beasts to the Black Moor (see appen-
dix Map of the Dorn). 
Strong monsters (vampire, mummy, ghost, gorgon) must 
always be summoned to the Dark Temple (see appendix Map of 
the Dorn). The Dornkeeper cannot choose which type of strong
monster he will summon. Instead, he must draw the monster 
randomly from the drawing bag. 
Bog beasts and all strong monsters always enter the game with 
2 hit points. Their tokens should therefore be face up with the
image of two skulls under the monster symbol. 
The Dornkeeper may move and attack with the summoned
monsters in the same turn they were summoned. The bog beasts
from the Black Moor are an exception; they can start moving and 
attacking only on the Dornkeeper’s next turn. The bog beasts also
cannot be summoned to spaces that are adjacent to any of the 
heroes, but other monsters are allowed to do so. 
New monsters cannot be summoned to spaces that are already 
occupied by monsters or heroes. The Dornkeeper chooses the
exact space within the summoning location where the monster 
appears.
The Dornkeeper can control only eight weak monsters of each
type on the game board. After that, he has to summon other 
types of monsters. In case he runs out of tokens for a speciﬁc
monster, the Dornkeeper can exchange tokens of weak and strong 
monsters that the heroes keep for tracking experience points (see 
Chapter 10. Advance to higher levels). 
8. Movement 
During their turn, all heroes and all monsters can move up to the 
number of spaces written on their sheets or in the Monster Lexicon. 
They are not allowed to move diagonally across square spaces.
Both heroes and monsters can interrupt their movement and 
continue with it later in the same phase of the turn. It is thus 
possible for one monster to move 3 spaces, let another monster 
pass, and then ﬁnish its move.
The monsters and the heroes are not allowed to stop on the 
same space or pass through each other. Passing by one hero 
through another is possible only on the Outside trails (with 
round spaces).
Some skills require the hero not to move. They can be used
even if the hero is teleported or transported to another location. 
Both heroes and monsters can enter spaces where monsters 
are summoned and spaces where Dornkeeper’s starting monsters 
are placed. The Sewers are the three separate spaces in a row.
Heroes and monsters may enter spaces with a Treasure or an 
Artifact. They may also enter the Healing fountains.
Monsters are not allowed to enter the Outside trails with 
round spaces (one such space is also in front of the Herbalist), 
nor can they be transported to them in any way. The heroes, the
monsters, nor Zorkal can by any means pass through the Gate of 
Doom before it is opened.
While teleporting, the distance is counted as if the hero had 
to move the distance. Teleporting through monsters and other 
heroes is possible. Obstacles like walls in the Abandoned Mines 
cannot be teleported through. 
9. Combat
9.a Attack of heroes 
If a hero stands on a space adjacent to a monster, he can attack 
the monster by using the active ability that has the sword symbol 
next to it on his character sheet. All attacks take place after all 
heroes have already ﬁnished their movements. The hero can use
as many attacks per turn as he has on his actual level (on the ﬁrst
level, all heroes usually have only one attack). Some heroes have 
special abilities that improve their attacks, such as the Round 
attack of Choros or the Piercing attack of Eleanor. 
Each attack by a hero deals one hit point of damage to a mon-
ster, which means that one attack will kill all weak monsters ex-
cept bog beasts. The hero keeps the token of the slain monster as
a counter of experience points (see Chapter 10. Advance to higher 
levels). Strong monsters and bog beasts are only wounded by one 
attack of a hero, as they have 2 hit points. In such a case, the 
token of the monster is turned upside down so the side with only 
one skull is face up. This means that the monster only has 1 hit
point left. If the wounded monster is attacked again, it is killed 
and the hero keeps the token of the slain monster as a counter of 
experience points (see Chapter 10. Advance to higher levels). 

9.b Attack of monsters
If a monster stands on a space adjacent to a hero, it may attack 
him. Each hero can parry one attack by a monster during each 
Dornkeeper’s turn. Additional attacks cannot be parried. For ev-
ery attack that has not been parried, the hero loses one hit point. 
The Dornkeeper has to declare how many monsters are attacking
the hero, who can then decide which attack he wants to parry. 
Weak monsters only have 1 attack per turn. Several strong 
monsters have 2 attacks per turn.
One attacking weak monster will thus not harm the hero 
(he can parry this one attack). Two weak monsters attacking at 
the same time hit the hero for 1 hit point (he can parry the ﬁrst,
but not the second attack). Three weak monsters attacking at the
same time hit the hero for 2 hit points. A vampire (2 attacks per 
turn) attacking together with a weak monster hits the hero for 
2 hit points. Two vampires attacking together hit the hero for 
3 hit points. (For other speciﬁc situations, see the appendix Game
Examples.)
9.c Shooting
Some of the heroes (Guelin and Riel) and monsters (gorgons) 
can shoot. A shooting attack is like a regular attack, but from a 
distance. Shooting at adjacent spaces is also possible. The distance
is calculated as the path the hero would have to go if he were to 
reach the target space. 
It is not possible to shoot over obstacles. Obstacles are all the 
places on the game board that are not possible to pass through. 
Heroes and monsters cannot shoot an opponent diagonally 
across from him if there is a pillar or wall in the way, unless 
they can legally shoot through one of the adjacent spaces. If it 
is not clear whether it is possible to shoot from one space to 
another, connect a straight line from any part of the space that 
the shooter stands on to the center of the target space. If this 
straight line does not cross any obstacles, shooting is possible. In 
borderline situations, shooting is still possible (see the appendix 
Game Examples).
A hero can shoot over other heroes, but not over monsters, 
which are considered as obstacles. Monsters can shoot over other 
monsters, but not over heroes, who are considered as obstacles.
9.d Pike
Certain heroes (Eleanor) and monsters (skeletons) ﬁght using
pikes. The attacking distance with a pike is 2 spaces only. If 2 
square spaces are connected diagonally, it is possible to attack 
with a pike as the distance is considered to be 2 spaces. It is 
not possible to attack over obstacles. All the same rules as for 
shooting apply to pikes. Thus, a hero can attack with a pike over
another hero, but not over a monster. A monster can attack with 
a pike over another monster, but not over a hero (see the appendix 
Game Examples).
9.e Magic
Some of the heroes (Almanor, Gor) attack by using magic. Dur-
ing the attack phase, they can use one of their abilities that has 
a star symbol next to it on their character sheets. When casting 
more diﬃcult magic spells (with a symbol of Blood Drop), he-
roes lose 1 hit point due to exhaustion. The lost Blood Drop is
handed to the Dornkeeper.
It is possible to target spaces around corners with magic 
spells. The distance is calculated as the path the hero would have
to go if he were to reach the target space. It is not possible to cast 
spells over a wall or other obstacle. It is possible to cast magic 
over other heroes, but not over monsters (see the appendix Game 
Examples).
9.f Blood Drops
If a hero loses one or more hit points for whatever reason, he 
must give the same number of Blood Drops to the Dornkeeper. 
The Dornkeeper may then use them at the beginning of his turn
to play one of the Ritual cards. In such a case, the used Blood 
Drops are put back in the reserve. Zorkal’s own hit points can-
not be used to play Ritual cards. The Dornkeeper cannot use
the Blood Drops to heal himself and he can have a maximum 
of 16 Blood Drops at one time. Additional Blood Drops are 
immediately put in the reserve.
9.g Death of a hero
If a hero loses his last Blood Drop, the game is over for him 
and his ﬁgure is removed from the game board. The Treasure
cards that he had in his possession are destroyed and are also 
removed from the game. If the hero carried an Artifact, it is 
placed on the space where the hero fell. That Artifact can be then
picked up by another hero (see Chapter 12. Artifacts). Remember 
that any artifact that is not found on an A can be assumed to 
have been dropped by a dead hero.
10. Advance to higher levels
Each hero keeps the tokens of the monsters he has killed. A weak 
monster counts as one experience point, a strong one as two 
experience points. Wounding a strong monster or a bog beast 
does not yield any experience; only the hero that deals the ﬁnal
blow gets the experience points. If a hero kills a monster using a 
Blessing card or an item from the Treasure card, he still gets the 
experience points.
If a hero has collected tokens of monsters worth 5 experience 
points, at the end of his turn he gives the tokens back to the 
reserve (strong monsters back to the drawing bag) and advances 
to the second level. The white gaming stone on the hero’s sheet
moves to number 2 and the hero is immediately able to use his 
additional new abilities. If the maximum number of a hero’s hit 
points increases when advancing to a higher level, he immediate-
ly gets the extra hit point, as if he has just healed one hit point. 
If he still has some experience points left, he keeps them in the 
form of available monster tokens. Tokens of strong monsters can 
be exchanged for two tokens of weak monsters.
For advancing to the third level, it is necessary to have 7 ad-
ditional experience points. A hero on the third level cannot 
advance any higher and does not keep the tokens of the killed 
monsters anymore. 
Zorkal can advance to higher levels in the same way as the 
heroes, but he uses Blood Drops as experience points. He needs 
7 Blood Drops to advance to the second level and 9 additional 
Blood Drops to advance to the third one. He cannot use his 
own green hit points to advance to higher levels.
11. Treasure cards
If a hero enters a space with a Treasure token, he can draw one 
of the Treasure cards (cards with a yellow back side and a symbol of 
a chest). A hero can ﬁnd useful items, but sometimes a monster
may appear instead. Once the Treasure card has been drawn, the 
token is removed from the space and no other Treasure cards can 
be drawn on this space. Monsters cannot draw Treasure cards 
nor move Treasure tokens.
If there is an item on the Treasure card, the hero keeps the 
card so other players and the Dornkeeper can see it. Each hero 
can only use 1 item per turn. All items can be used only once. 
Then they are removed from the game. If the heroes are 
standing on adjacent spaces, they can pass any number of items 
to each other during the movement phase.
12. Artifacts
The Artifacts don’t provide the heroes with any special abilities,
but the heroes need to collect at least three of them in order to 
open the Gate of Doom and face the Dornkeeper. If a hero en-
ters a space with an Artifact token, he may pick it up and place it 
on his sheet. If the heroes are standing on adjacent spaces, they 
can pass Artifacts to each other during the movement phase. 
Monsters cannot pick up nor move Artifacts.
Each time an Artifact is picked up for the ﬁrst time, the magi-
cal equilibrium inside the Dorn shifts. The Dornkeeper may
therefore summon one extra strong monster on his following 
turn. All rules for summoning monsters apply. 

13. Game board
Gate of Doom – It is not possible in any way to pass through 
the closed Gate of Doom (not even by teleportation or Blessing 
cards). If at least three Artifacts are in the Ritual Chamber (see 
appendix Map of the Dorn) at the same moment, whether carried 
by Heroes or dropped by heroes who have left, the Gate is un-
locked and will open at the start of the Dornkeeper‘s next turn. 
It is not possible to close the Gate of Doom once it has been 
opened. The Gate is considered as one space. 
Black Moor – The Dornkeeper may summon bog beasts to any 
space in the Black Moor, even to spaces with a Treasure or an Arti-
fact token (but not to the Teleport). Exact borders of the Black Moor 
are shown in appendix Map of the Dorn. The lake in the middle of 
the Black Moor, trees, and hills all count as impassable obstacles. 
Healing Fountains – If a hero stands on one of the two 
Healing fountains at the end of his turn, he can heal up to two 
of his lost hit points. Monsters can attack a hero standing on a 
Healing fountain.
Hamlet of Argos – If there are heroes in the hamlet of Argos 
at the end of the heroes’ turn, the local healer will heal up to 
two lost hit points to each one of them. The hamlet is the only 
space in the game that can be occupied by more than one hero 
at the same time.
The only way to leave the hamlet is to go through the main 
gate; it is not possible to go directly to the Black Moor or to the 
Abandoned Mines.
Outside trails – Monsters cannot enter the round spaces on 
the Outside trail; they cannot be in any way transported there 
either. Heroes can attack monsters in reach from the Outside 
trail, but the monsters cannot in any way attack heroes stand-
ing on the Outside trail.
Teleports – There are two Teleports on the game board, one 
from the Black Moor to the Dorn (T1 on Map of the Dorn) 
and the other from the Abandoned mines to the Dorn (T2 on 
Map of the Dorn). Monsters and heroes can pass through the 
Teleports there and back. The spaces of the Teleport with the 
same symbol are identical, which means that the hero standing 
on a Teleport is present on both spaces at the same time. He can 
thus be attacked by monsters from both sides at once. 
After passing through a Teleport, it is possible to continue 
moving. It is not possible to shoot, attack with a pike or cast 
magic through the Teleport. Eﬀects of magic spells, Blessing 
cards, and items do not pass through the Teleport.
Herbalist – If a hero stands at the round space in front of the 
Herbalist’s house at the end of his turn, the Herbalist will heal 
two of his lost hit points. Rules for the Outside trail apply for this 
space as well. It is not possible to enter the Herbalist’s house. 
14. Victory 
If the game situation is hopeless, it is possible to surrender. The 
side that does so loses the game. 
14.a Victory for the heroes
The only way for the heroes to win is to kill Zorkal. If he loses 
his last hit point (not Blood Drop from the heroes!), the Dorn-
keeper loses the game.
Only when the Gate of Doom is open (see Chapter 13. Game 
board) can the heroes directly ﬁght Zorkal. He moves and attacks 
in the same phase as monsters and rules for monsters apply to 
him as well. 
14.b Victory for the Dornkeeper 
The Dornkeeper wins when he successfully performs the Ultimate 
Ritual that opens an abyss under the hamlet of Argos. For the Ul-
timate Ritual to be successful, the central Ritual Chamber (see ap-
pendix Map of the Dorn) has to be completely full of monsters at 
the end of each of Dornkeeper’s turns for three turns in a row. 
Composition of the monsters inside the Ritual Chamber may vary 
in each of these turns. If there is a hero instead of a monster on one 
of the spaces, the Ritual will be successful too.
If the Dornkeeper eliminates all the heroes, the Dornkeeper 
is victorious, as there is nobody to prevent him from performing 
the Ultimate Ritual. 
15. Variants for more advanced players
Before the start of the game, players may agree that they will play 
with some of these additional rules that give the game more vari-
ability, but do not signiﬁcantly favor either of the sides. 
15.a Random Group 
Players draw heroes randomly at the beginning of the game. 
15.b Missing Artifact
When setting up the game, players place tokens of Artifacts ran-
domly on the blue spaces with a rune back side up. Then they 
turn the Artifact tokens face up and the one with a picture of an 
axe is removed from the game. 
15.c The Cave-in
When setting up the game, the Dornkeeper places two Cave-in 
tokens on the game board. These are considered as impassable ob-
stacles, so teleportation over them is not possible. First the Dorn-
keeper draws two out of six Cave-in tokens. He places them on the 
game board so that the number on the Cave-in token corresponds 
with the number of the Cave-in space on the Map of the Dorn 
(Z1–Z6). The Cave-in can be attacked in the same way as a mon-
ster or a hero, but Blessing cards and Ritual cards do not aﬀect it, 
nor can it be moved in any way. Each Cave-in has 3 hit points, 
so place two more Cave-in tokens on the token that was already 
placed on the game board and take one away with each loss of a hit 
point. If the Cave-in loses its last hit point, it is removed from the 
game. Heroes do not gain any experience points for removing it.
15.d Tactics and ﬂight 
If a hero comes to a space adjacent to a monster, he has to stop 
moving. If a monster comes to a space adjacent to a hero, it 
has to stop moving. This restriction doesn’t apply to heroes and 
monsters that have the ability of passing freely through spaces 
that are occupied by other heroes or monsters.
If a hero starts his turn on a space adjacent to a monster, he 
can either ﬁght on or ﬂee. While ﬁghting, the hero can move only 
one space and still has to remain adjacent to the same monster. If 
he chooses to ﬂee, he does not have to stop on spaces adjacent to 
monsters, but he cannot use items from Treasure cards, attack or 
cast magic spells in this turn. The same rule applies to monsters 
– if they are ﬂeeing from a hero, they do not have to stop on spaces 
adjacent to heroes, but they cannot attack in the same turn. 
15.e Real Day and Night
Players can agree that both the heroes and the Dornkeeper have 
a certain time limit for their turns, approximately 2–5 minutes. 
After the time runs out, the other side starts playing.
15.f Four heroes 
It is possible to play the game with only four heroes. Increase 
the starting number of hit points and number of hit points on 
higher levels by 1 for each hero. The Dornkeeper starts the game 
with one zombie, one giant rat and one skeleton. He places them 
on the starting black spaces he chooses. For playing a Ritual card 
and for advancing to higher levels, the Dornkeeper needs one 
additional Blood Drop. All other rules remain the same.
 
Authors: Jan „Kerwil“ Daněk, Jiří „Amuril“ Daněk, Jan „Stryx“ 
Dřevíkovský, Filip Kozák, Jan „Alistair“ Kozák, Kryštof „Zorkal“ Kozák
Graphics: Jan „Stryx“ Dřevíkovský, Jana Šouﬂová, Tomáš „zelgaris“ 
Zahradníček
Special thanks to: Almad, Aquila, Bouchi, Carcharias, Jonathan Frank-
lin, Frogger, Jakub „Sulinar“ Hruška, Ondřej Kareš, Dagmar Kozáková, 
Kateřina „Eleanor“ Kozáková, Pan Miroslav, Nyx, Pieta, Rethon, Tomáš 
„Wiper“ Semenec, Adam „Taurus“ Šnobl, Tomucha, Vanaprastha
Additional information and FAQ can be found at www.dorn.cz.
Authors: Jan „Kerwil“ Daněk, Jiří „Amuril“ Daněk, Jan „Stryx“
Dřevíkovský, Filip Kozák, Jan „Alistair“ Kozák, Kryštof „Zorkal“ Kozák
Graphics: Jan „Stryx“ Dřevíkovský, Jana Šouﬂová, Tomáš „zelgaris“
Zahradníček
Special thanks to: Almad, Aquila, Bouchi, Carcharias, Jonathan Frank-
lin, Frogger, Jakub „Sulinar“ Hruška, Ondřej Kareš, Dagmar Kozáková,
Kateřina „Eleanor“ Kozáková, Pan Miroslav, Nyx, Pieta, Rethon, Tomáš
„Wiper“ Semenec, Adam „Taurus“ Šnobl, Tomucha, Vanaprastha
Additional information and FAQ can be found at www.dorn.cz.