1/5
2-4 players, 7 years and up
CONTENTS
Castle Dracula board; Green Vampire mask; Red Dracula piece; Green Vampire piece; Blue Vampire piece;
four players' pieces (red, blue, green and yellow); one Spinner Card. Later editions (1978) replace the Spinner
with a pair of dice: one normal (1..6) and one special (3-3-4-4-V-V).
THE PURPOSE OF THE GAME
Sheltering for the night in this ruined castle, you are horrified to find that it is in fact Castle Dracula —the lair
of the bloodthirsty Count Dracula and his pet Vampires! The sun is about to set and Dracula is beginning his
night prowls. Your only hope is to escape from the castle as fast as you can, through one of the doorways
marked HOME. To do this, you will move along the Yellow Stone pathways by spinning the spinner (rolling
the dice). At all times you will try to keep out of the way of the diabolical Count Dracula and his marauding
Vampires. If you ever find yourself in the same room as Dracula, he will bite you and the results will be
serious. THE FIRST PLAYER TO ESCAPE FROM THE CASTLE IS THE WINNER.
GETTING READY TO PLAY
1. Press out and assemble the Green Vampire Mask.
2. Open the game board on a flat surface in the middle of the players.
3. Place the Red Dracula piece on the red pool of blood in the centre of the coffin in the vault.
Place the Green Vampire piece on the Number 1 Vampire Perch.
5. Place the Blue Vampire piece on the Number 6 Vampire Perch.
6. Place the required number of players' pieces on their own coloured start positions.
START THE GAME
1. Each player chooses a coloured player's piece.
Each player takes a spin (rolls the normal die). The player with the highest score has the first turn, and the
other players follow in a clockwise direction.

2/5
HAVING A TURN…
The player spins the spinner or rolls the dice. The red (inner) area
of the card (special die) tells us the number of pools of blood
Dracula must move round his blood-stained trail. The yellow
(outer) area of the card (normal die) tells us the number of yellow
stones that the player's piece must move.
Dracula must move in a clockwise direction and cannot
move backwards.
At some intersections, Dracula can only go one way as
shown by the arrow.
At other intersections, the arrows show that he has a choice.
A player can set off in any direction along the stones, but
must make the whole of one move in the direction chosen.
A player can turn or proceed straight ahead when he reaches
an intersection, but remember —you are trying to keep out
of the way of Dracula!
IMPORTANT: The player has the choice of whether to move Dracula first followed by moving his own piece
OR move his own piece first followed by moving Dracula. This can make a difference when the game is under
way.

3/5
PATHWAY RULES
1. A player may pass over, but may not land on, a stone occupied by another player's piece. He must go in
another direction to avoid this.
2. A player may pass over, but cannot land on, any of the six Vampire Perches. He must go in another
direction to avoid this.
A player cannot pass over either of the two Vampires, and must change directions to avoid them.
4. If a player is unable to move the number indicated on the spinner (normal die) because of various obstacles,
then he leaves his piece where it is and only moves Dracula the number of spaces indicated by the Dracula
section of the spinner (special die).
5. If your move ends in the same room as Dracula, he catches you.
If Dracula's move ends in the same room your piece is already in, he catches you.
7. Neither Dracula nor the Green Vampire can touch you when you're in one of the orange
HIDEYHOLES. If you throw a number that enables you to land on a HIDEYHOLE exactly, you may stay
there safely, if you wish, until your next turn.
IF THE INNER CIRCLE OF THE CARD SHOWS A
VAMPIRE (SPECIAL DIE SHOWS A ‘V’)
The player does not move his own piece and Dracula, but instead he
moves a Vampire to the appropriate Vampire Perch indicated by the
position of the pointer (normal die). Vampire Perches 1 through 4 are
for the GREEN VAMPIRE ALONE —Vampire Perches 5 and 6 are
for the BLUE VAMPIRE ALONE.
Green Vampire moves to Perch 3
DRACULA GETS YOU!
Castle Dracula has thirteen very unlucky rooms. If one of Dracula's moves ends in the same room as a
stationary player, that player will be bitten and captured by Dracula. The player would also be captured if his
move ended in a room occupied by Dracula. A player is only captured when standing still in a room with
Dracula.
Dracula cannot catch you if you only pass through his room, or if he passes through yours. If there are two or
more players in the same room as Count Dracula, the player whose turn it is can decide which player is to be
bitten and captured by Dracula.
When Dracula captures a player, he enfolds that player in his cloak and carries him off (in the same turn) to the
coffin vault.
To the coffin
Captured by Dracula
Taken over by the
Green Vampire

4/5
There Dracula releases all his victims, except the first, at the top of the vault steps. The captured player is then
free to enter the game again (from this position) when his turn comes around. Each time Dracula captures a
player and takes that player to his vault, Dracula then takes up his original starting position on the pool of blood
in the vault. He is then moved from there in the usual way by each player in turn. THE FIRST PLAYER TO
BE CAUGHT BY DRACULA IS CHANGED INTO A GREEN VAMPIRE. The first time Dracula catches a
player, he takes the player to his vault and calls the Green Vampire from his Perch (1, 2, 3 or 4) to the vault.
The captured player assumes the role of the Green Vampire, and he must wear the Green vampire Mask.
The Green Vampire now waits in the vault until a spin (roll) by a player indicates that he must move to one of
the Green Vampire perches, or until his own turn.
If he is still in the vault when his turn comes, he does not take a spin (roll the dice), but simply moves to the
Green Vampire Perch Number 1, until his next turn.
MOVING THE GREEN VAMPIRE
When you are the Green Vampire and you have moved from
the Vault, then you spin (roll dice) in the usual way. You do
not move Dracula. Instead, you move the Green Vampire
along the stones as shown by both the INNER and OUTER
sections of the card (both dice) added together. If the
pointer stops in the Vampire section (if the special die
shows a ‘V’), then the appropriate Vampire is moved to the
Vampire Perch indicated by the number pointed to in the
usual way: 1, 2, 3, 4 - Green Vampire; 5, 6 - Blue Vampire.
The Green Vampire must obey the command to go to a
specific Perch instead of taking his move.
Green Vampire Moves 9 Stones (4 + 5)
IMPORTANT: Vampires are afraid of the light. So the Green Vampire cannot pass over or land on a stone
that is lit by a CANDELABRA.
If the Green Vampire cannot move the full number indicated on the spinner (by the dice), he misses his turn and
does not move at all.
CATCHING ANOTHER PLAYER
A player who is under the influence of the Green Vampire can only escape by catching another player. He does
this by approaching, shedding the Green Vampire cloak and finally retreating as shown in the example below.
Nine scored
The approach (1, 2, 3)
Shedding the Vampire (4)
The retreat (5, 6, 7, 8, 9)

5/5
Any convenient side paths can be used by the player in his retreat.
The player who has been caught is now the Green Vampire. He must wear the mask and try to catch another
player when his turn comes. He moves from the position he was in when he was caught. And if the spin (dice)
allows, he can immediately recapture the player who just captured him.
But remember, a Candelabra stops him.
THE BLUE VAMPIRE
The Blue Vampire moves between Vampire Perches 5 and 6, blocking the routes out of the Castle. He cannot
catch anyone.
If he is blocking your route so that you cannot move the full number on the spinner (normal die) towards him,
then you will need to move away from him.
KEEPING OUT OF DANGER
1. Always try to avoid rooms that Dracula might enter.
2. Try to keep a Candelabra between the Green Vampire and yourself.
3. Try to move Dracula away from yourself and towards the other players.
ESCAPING
You do not have to reach HOME exactly. All you need is a number large enough to get you out of the Castle.
Dracula equipment can in the event of loss or damage be purchased from
Waddingtons House of Games® Corp. Ltd., 75 West Dr., Bramalea, Ontario, Canada L6T 2J6
Copyright © 1977 Waddingtons House of Games® Corp. Ltd., 75 West Dr., Bramalea, Ontario. Canada L6T 2J6
PRINTED IN CANADA