RULES

Each player takes a Zoo board and puts it in front of themself. The players must all use 
the same side of the board. Use the Summer side for your first few games.
Put the dinosaurs in the draw bag based on the number of players 
(see the table below). The remaining dinosaurs are put back in the box.
 The youngest player puts the placement die in front of them. 
5 Zoo boards 
(with a Summer and 
a Winter side)
60 dinosaurs 
(10 x 6 different 
species) 
1 placement die
1 draw bag
Game 
components
all the dinosaurs
in the box are used
(60 go in the bag)
2 dinosaurs of each species 
(12 dinosaurs stay in the 
box, 48 go in the bag)
4 dinosaurs of each species 
(24 dinosaurs stay in the 
box, 36 go in the bag)
2 dinosaurs of each species 
(12 dinosaurs stay in the 
box, 48 go in the bag)
5 players
4 players
3 players
2 players
Setup
Scientists have finally cloned dinosaurs! 
All around the world, zoos full of these huge creatures are opening. Organize 
your dinosaur pens as best you can to show curious visitors the trendiest 
dinosaurs!
HOW MANY DINOSAURS? 
At the start of each round, the players all take six dinosaurs each from the 
draw bag and keep them hidden in their hands.
Then, the players each pass the dinosaurs still in their hands, without 
revealing them, to the player on their left. The player with the placement die 
passes it to the player on their left as well.
A new turn begins: The placement die is rolled, each player places a dinosaur 
in their Zoo, and passes their remaining dinosaurs to the player on their left. 
Turns are repeated until the players all have six dinosaurs in their Zoos.
The player with the placement die rolls it. 
Then, all the players each choose a dinosaur from their hands simultaneously. 
When every player has chosen a dinosaur, everyone reveals the one they 
chose and places it in their Zoo. All the players except the player who 
rolled the die must obey the placement condition imposed by the die (see 
Placement Die, page 6). If a player cannot or does not want to place a 
dinosaur in a Pen, they can always place it in the River. The River is not 
treated like a Pen (see The River, page 5).
As soon as each player has six dinosaurs in their Zoo, the second round begins. 
It is played exactly the same as the first round. 
At the end of the second round, each player will therefore have twelve dinosaurs in their Zoo.
The game is played in two rounds. Each round consists of six turns.
ROUND 2
Gameplay
ROUND 1

Each Zoo contains six Pens. 
Each Pen has a placement condition and 
provides victory points in a different way.
Dinosaur Pens
The Forest of Sameness: This Pen can only hold dinosaurs of the same species and must 
be filled from left to right with no gaps. 
At the end of the game, it brings in victory points based on the number of dinosaurs in it.
The Meadow of Differences: This Pen can only hold dinosaurs of different species and 
must be filled from left to right with no gaps.
At the end of the game, it brings in victory points based on the number of dinosaurs in it.
The Prairie of Love: This Pen can hold all the different dinosaur species. At the end of 
the game, it brings in 5 victory points for each same-species dinosaur couple in it. (A couple is 
made up of 2 dinosaurs of the same species. Having more than one couple from the same 
species is allowed.)
The Woody Trio: This Pen can hold up to three dinosaurs of any species, the same or 
different. At the end of the game, it brings in 7 victory points if there are exactly 3 dinosaurs in it 
regardless of species. Otherwise, it brings in 0 points. 
King of the Jungle: This Pen can hold only one dinosaur. 
At the end of the game, it brings in 7 victory points if your Zoo contains at least as many dinosaurs 
of the species contained in this Pen as there are in each of your opponents' Zoos. If any of your 
opponents' Zoos have more dinosaurs of this species than yours does, this Pen brings in 0 points.
Solitary Island: This Pen can hold only one dinosaur. 
At the end of the game, it brings in 7 victory points if the dinosaur in this Pen is the only one of 
its species in your Zoo. Otherwise, it brings in 0 points.
The River is a special zone that is not treated like a Pen. At the end of the game, 
each dinosaur in it brings in 1 victory point.
T-Rex is a special dinosaur. At the end of the game, each of your Pens that contains 
at least one T-Rex brings in 1 additional victory point. 
Important: Pens with more than one T-Rex only bring in 1 point per pen.
The River 
T-Rex
FOOD COURT
GRASSLANDS
WOODLANDS
RESTROOMS
SUMMER
BOARD
LAYOUT

5 +
=
Every turn, one player rolls the placement die. All the other players
must obey the condition imposed by the die. Here are the different sides of the die:
End of the Game
The game is over after the end of the second round.
Players count their points, and the player with the most points 
wins!
In the event of a tie, the player who has fewest T-Rexes wins. 
If they are still tied, the players share the win. 
Tip: Use paper and pencil to count each player's points.
Woodlands: The dinosaurs must be placed in a Pen in the woodlands section of your Zoo.
Grasslands: The dinosaurs must be placed in a Pen in the grasslands section of your Zoo.
Restrooms: The dinosaurs must be placed on the restroom side of your Zoo (to the right of the River).
Food Court: The dinosaurs must be placed on the food court side of your Zoo (to the left of the River).
Empty Pen: The dinosaurs must be placed in an empty Pen.
Watch Out for T-Rex: The dinosaurs must be placed in a Pen that does not contain a T-Rex.
Note: You can still play a T-Rex this turn, as long as there isn't one already in the Pen in question.
The Placement Die
Once you've played a few games with the Summer side of the Zoo boards, 
try the Winter side, which offers a slightly more technical challenge.
ALTERNATIVE ZOO
WINTER
BOARD
LAYOUT
A Well-Ordered Wood: This Pen can only hold two different species of dinosaurs 
in a specific order. They must be placed from left to right, alternating species as follows: 
species 1 / species 2 / species 1 / species 2 / species 1 / species 2. At the end of the 
game, it brings in victory points based on the number of dinosaurs in it. 
Note: You may not place two dinosaurs of the same species one after the other leaving an 
empty space between them.
Lovers' Bridge (right and left river banks): This Pen is divided into two 
sub-Pens, one on each side of the River; they can hold dinosaurs of any species. 
At the end of the game, it brings in 6 victory points for each dinosaur couple of the same 
species that has one member in each sub-Pen.
Note: The two sub-Pens are treated as two different Pens; they can each bring in 1 
additional point at the end of the game if they contain a T-Rex.
The Pyramid: This Pen can hold up to six dinosaurs. The first three must be 
placed on the bottom row; the next two on the middle row; and the last one on the 
top row. Careful! Two dinosaurs of the same species may not be placed adjacent 
(horizontally or vertically) to each other.
At the end of the game, it brings in victory points based on the number of dinosaurs in it 
and their position.
The Lookout: This Pen can hold only one dinosaur. 
At the end of the game, it brings in 2 victory points for each dinosaur in the Zoo of the 
player on your right that is of the same species as the one in your Pen.
Quarantine Zone: This Pen can hold only one dinosaur.
At the end of the game, move this dinosaur to another Pen in your Zoo or to the River 
(obeying placement rules) before counting your points.

To earn the title of best dinosaur zoo manager, the players 
play two games in a row:
• the first on the Summer side, and
• the second on the Winter side.
Each player adds their scores from both games to determine the winner.
Summer/Winter Mode
Two-Player Version
A two-player game is played in four rounds (instead of the usual two). 
2 dinosaurs of each species are left in the box. 
At the start of each round, the players draw six dinosaurs randomly from the draw 
bag, but they only place three during the round.
Sequence of Play During the Rounds
The players take turns rolling the placement die. 
The die condition only applies to the players who did not roll the die.
• Each player chooses the dinosaur they want to place in their Zoo.
• Each player chooses then a second dinosaur, which they put back in the box.
• The players then trade their hands of dinosaurs.
End of the Game
At the end of the fourth round, each player will therefore have twelve 
dinosaurs in their Zoo. Points are counted as normal.
Where did the name "Draftosaurus" come from?
Drafting is a game mechanic that consists of passing game elements – 
often cards, but in this case dinosaurs! – around the table from player 
to player.
Graphic Design: L’encre invisible / Ankama
Graphic Studio: Forgenext
English version: Lara ANDAHAZY and Craig SMITH
Authors’ Acknowledgments: Team Kaedama would like to thank Gaëtan, the whole Ankama team, 
Steven Spielberg, the enthusiastic Burgoludique players, and the lovely visitors to the Festival de Valence. 
“Life finds a way.” – Dr. Ian Malcolm
Creator: Team Kaedama: Antoine Bauza, Corentin Lebrat, Ludovic Maublanc, and Théo Rivière.
Illustrators: Vipin Alex Jacob / Jiahui Eva Gao