Dragon Rage
Game Manual
Read this first
English - V.0.011

Designer Biography :
Dr. Lew Pulsipher started playing
boardgames more than 50 years
ago.
He designed his own games,
then discovered strategic
"realistic" gaming with early Avalon
Hill wargames, and ultimately
earned a Ph.D. in military and
diplomatic history at Duke
University.
His first commercial
title was published in 1980.
He is
designer of Britannia, Dragon Rage,
Valley of the Four Winds, Swords
and Wizardry, and Diplomacy Games
& Variants.
After a 20 year hiatus from game
design to teach himself computing
and work as a programmer and
chief of PC support at a major Army
medical center, Lew has come back
to designing games.
Britannia (2nd edition) appeared in
2006, with foreign editions
(German, French, Spanish,
Hungarian) in 2008.
Britannia is
among the games covered in the
book Hobby Games: The 100 Best,
edited by James Lowder.
It was
described in an Armchair General
online review of a 2006 edition as
"ready to continue on as one of the
great titles in the world of games".
Players of Britannia,
a strategically
deep, four‐player game depicting
the history of Great Britain from
the Roman invasion to the Norman
Conquest, play primarily for
entertainment, but some schools use
it to teach Dark Ages history. Other
games are forthcoming, among
them an abstract boardgame from
Mayfair Games.
A former contributing editor to
several role‐playing game magazines,
and author of over a hundred game
magazine articles, he is now
Monthly Contributor to
GameCareerGuide and Gamasutra.
These sites, owned by Game
Developer Magazine, are the
premier Web sites for those
interested in video game creation.
He is a contributor to the books
Hobby Games: the 100 Best and
Family Games: the 100 Best (Green
Ronin), and to the forthcoming
Tabletop Game Design (ETC Press).
He is finishing his "howto" book, Get
it Done: Designing Games from
Start to Finish.
"Dr. P’s" "day job" is teaching game
design and other video game
creation topics in the southeastern
US, where he has 17,000 classroom
hours of experience, mostly
teaching computing and especially
computer networking, in college
and graduate school.
Current projects are at
PulsipherGames.Com.
Blogs:
http://pulsiphergamedesign.blogspot.com/,
http://teachgamedesign.blogspot.com.

Copyright (c) 1982, 2010 by Lewis Pulsipher
Copyright (c) 2010 Flatlined Games
Introduction to the revised
edition
Designed by Lewis Pulsipher, designer of
the classic game 'Britannia', Dragon Rage
was published in 1982 by Dwarfstar, an
imprint of Heritage Models. Heritage was
primarily a miniatures producer run by Duke
Seifried. Shortly after the initial release of
Dragon Rage, the company went bankrupt
for reasons not related to the boardgames
and the game became unavailable.
Dragon Rage is a good introduction to
the world of hex-and-counter wargames with
a very strong theme and deep, yet simple
gameplay.
I was thrilled when the occasion to
publish a new edition of this classic
presented itself. Dragon Rage is now
available again, about 30 years after the
original publication. To some of you it'll be a
fond memory of the past, and to the others it
will be a new game altogether. I hope all of
you will enjoy it the same.
The rules book has been rewritten from
the ground up, with only minor modifications
to the game system. This revised edition
includes a remake of David Helber's original
map and counters that is very close to the
classic Heritage edition. However, the
counters are two-sided, and include brand
new art by Lionel Liron on the back, in full
color. I also developed an optional campaign
system, allowing to play a few linked games
whose outcome influences the next as the
campaign unfolds. The last addition to this
revised edition is a new original map on the
back of the Esirien map, Nurkott, along with
new scenarios.
I hope you'll enjoy this new edition, and
that you'll have a lot of fun with it!
Eric Hanuise,
FlatlinedGames.
Missing parts
If any parts to this game are missing or
damaged, please return them to:
Dragon Rage Customer Service , Flatlined
Games, 39 rue gheude, 1070 brussels.
Your damaged part will be replaced free of
charge, as will missing parts.
Rules organisation
The Dragon Rage rules are organised in two
books :
- Game manual : this manual introduces the
main game components and leads you step
by step trough your first games of Dragon
Rage using the main scenario of two dragons
attacking the city. This is the 'user manual'
for the game, and will teach you the basic
rules.
- Rules reference : this manual holds the
detailed rules covering every aspect of
Dragon Rage. It is organised in subsections
for easy reference during gameplay : Rules
reference, Scenarios and appendixes,
Campaign rules, Tournament rules, etc.
Your first game
The game
Dragon Rage is a two-player fantasy
game that depicts the attacks on the walled
fortress-city of Esirien. One player controls
the "invaders", a pair of dragons, while the
other controls the "city forces" defending the
ramparts and interior, including knights,
infantry, archers, militia, the hero-lord ruler,
and his wizard.
The invaders attempt to destroy part or
all of the city, while the defenders attempt to
protect it. Each map Hex represents about 25
yards, each turn about a minute, and each
unit about 50 men or one Dragon.
For best results, read the 'Your first
game' section once through quickly. Then
immediately try a game, even if it is solitaire.
Refer back to the rules during your first
game, re-reading the fine points as
necessary. After the first game or two you
will have learned the rules clearly.
Should a rules question arise during play,
look at the relevant section of the rules
reference to answer it. Anything not
specifically allowed in the rules is not a valid
game move, and is not 'legal' during play.
Dragon Rage is a simple and fast-paced
game so during a session, game flow is more
important than in-depth rules discussion. In
the unlikely event that you encounter a rules
question that is not covered by the rules
reference, agree on a temporary ruling to
allow the game to continue without further
disruption, and look for a definitive
resolution after the game session is
completed.

The city of Esirien
Esirien is an old city, veteran of many wars. The eastern section was built first, as a
military colony of the Empire.
Time passed and the Empire fell. Now it was a trading center, and the western portion grew
up around the docks and warehouses. Now alone, it needed an army and a militia to repulse
attacks from the wilds beyond the gates.
Giants, trolls, orcs and goblins all attempted to pillage and plunder Esirien, but after each
attack it rebuilt.
One day, the monsters disappeared. Dragons had moved into the far mountains.
Esirien's army sallied forth to destroy their lair, capturing wealth and breaking the eggs. Then
the dragons came to avenge the death of their family ...
The esirien city map
The color map shows the city of Esirien,
with a key to terrain features in the corner.
The Terrain Effects Chart summarizes the
effect of the terrain, which is explained in
more detail within the rules.
Note that although the inside of the city
shows many buildings, these are primarily
for appearance, since "open terrain" includes
hexes with or without buildings.
The river that runs through the city ends
in Hex 1413, the sea begins in 1414. Dock
hexes include the moles in 1315 and 1516, as
well as 0815, 0915, 1014, and 1115.
Finally, note that large gates are
indicated by a red glow around the structure,
while doors are indicated by a blue glow.

Troops & individual
characters counters
City Defender troop units are
orange and characters yellow.
Unit types include CAV-
cavalry, INF-infantry, MIL-
militia, ARH-archers, HERO-
defender hero, WZD-defender
wizard. Combat ability,
Escape and Movement are
printed on the counters.
Each city defender counter
provides the unit's statistics
as follow :
Each unit has two movement
point (MP) values. The first
number "C" is the normal
number of hexes the unit may
move. The second,
parenthesized "(D)" number is
road movement : if the unit
starts on a road Hex and
follows the roads for its whole
movement, use that number
instead.
Dragon counters
The dragons have no
numerical values on the
counter itself. See the rules
and tables for information
about their capabilities. All
Dragons have a facing
direction, as shown by the
colored arrowhead, and an "in
flight" version (use whichever
counter is appropriate for the
monster's current status).
Heart counters
These counters are used to
track the dragon's damage on
the play aid.
SP counters
These counters are used to
track the wizard's remaining
spell points.
The counters
Turn pointer
This counter is used to point
to the current game turn on
the track printed across the
bottom of the mapboard. Blue
squares indicate turns with
reinforcements for the
defending player.
Last damage pointer
This counter is used to mark
the last game turn the invader
destroyed a VP Hex on the
track printed across the
bottom of the mapboard. If
ten turn pass without the
invader destroying a VP hex.,
he loses the game.
Broken pointer
Is used to show when a door
or gate is broken open. Use
the top of the arch on the
counter to point to the broken
hexside.
Burned bridge markers
Are placed on wooden bridges
that are burned down.
Wounded markers
Are placed on top of a hero
when he receives a wound (a
hero who is wounded again is
killed).
Magic markers
Show the central location of a
Fog or a Whirlwind.
Destroyed / Victory points
markers
Are placed in a city Hex when
the invader "destroys" it to
gain its victory points value.
Note that destruction (for
victory points) has no
additional effects — terrain is
unchanged, the invader
simply scores the appropriate
victory points, represented by
placing a marker of the
appropriate value in the Hex.

Setup
- Each player rolls the die, the player with
the highest result chooses to play the
Dragons or the city defender.
- Place the Esirien map on the gaming
surface
- Defending city forces set up first, anywhere
within the city, including in any tower, in the
waterfront district, and along the walls
(inside) as desired. Units may set up on the
bridges if desired. Maximum one city force
counter, plus either the wizard or hero, may
be placed in a single Hex.
- City defender forces: 4 cavalry, 8 infantry, 4
archer, 4 militia, 1 hero, and 1 wizard.
The invading forces then set up along any
Hex at the west, north, or east edge of the
map, next to the forest.
- Invading forces: 2 Dragons.
Victory points
The dragons win by destroying parts of
the city : certain hexes have victory points
marked (Numbers 1-5 in blue), and when the
Hex is destroyed, a victory points marker is
placed on that Hex.
The Dragons destroy a victory point Hex
by walking into the Hex and spending one
MP in it (in that or some later turn), or by
slithering into it. Landing from flight or a
bound in an unoccupied Hex will destroy it.
Dragonfire into a Hex will always destroy it,
except for towers, where only dragonfire
breathed through an open entrance will
destroy the Hex.
A Whirlwind spell cast by the defending
wizard will destroy all victory points in a Hex
it occupies.
Victory conditions
City defenders win the game when all
invaders are destroyed, if 10 game turns pass
in which no victory points are destroyed, or if
10 game turns pass in which no (grounded or
airborne) invader units are within the walls
of the city.
Invaders victory is assessed using the
following criteria :
- Dragons destroy less than 16 VP's :
Invaders are defeated (invader title :
featherless chicken)
- Dragons destroy 16 VP's : Invaders
marginal victory (invader title : dragon
whelp)
- Dragons destroy 18 VP's : Invaders normal
victory (invader title : destroyer of cities)
- Dragons destroy 20 or more VP's : Invaders
great victory (invader title : the death from
above)
- Dragons destroy all Vp's : Invaders
ultimate victory (invader title : the bane of
Esirien)
After a few plays, the invader player
should aim for at least a 20 VP great victory.
The ultimate victory has so far never
been claimed, so if you do manage that rare
feat, by all means send us a session report!
The game turn
The game turn sequence is organised in 9
phases as follow :
(1) Invading player movement phase
The invading player moves his dragons
on the map, and resolves any overrun
attacks.
(2) Dragonfire phase
The invader player resolves any
dragonfire flame attacks.
(3) Invading player melee phase
The invading player may resolve any
melee attacks made by his units.
(4) City forces spell-casting phase
The city player may cast a spell with his
wizard.
(5) City forces reinforcements phase
On turns 10, 14, 18, 22, 26, 30, and so
forth the city player receives reinforcement
units.
(6) City forces movement phase
The city player may move his units on the
map.
(7) City forces archery phase
The city player resolves any archery
attacks.
(8) City forces melee phase
The city player resolves any melee
attacks made by his units.
(9) Advance turn pointer
At the end of the turn, the city player
moves the turn pointer to the next box on the
turn record track.
Game turns are repeated, one after
another, until either the invader concedes
defeat, or gains sufficient victory points to
win.
- If all invaders are killed, the city forces
player automatically and instantly wins.
- If ten or more turns pass without any
invaders within the walls of the city, the city

forces player automatically wins.
- If ten or more turns pass without any
victory point hexes destroyed, the city forces
player automatically wins.
Stacking
No troop unit may move into a Hex
occupied by any other unit. Characters and
Dragons may enter hexes occupied by
another unit in certain circumstances (see
below).
Heroes & wizards
These special character
units may stack with any other
friendly unit in the same Hex
However, a stack of no more
than two units is allowed (hero
or wizard with some other unit,
or just a hero and wizard
together).
In addition, a hero (but not a
wizard) may move into a Hex
occupied by a Dragon, but this
automatically ends his move.
Terrain & Movement
Sea
No unit can enter a sea Hex (all-water
hex.)
River
No unit can enter a river Hex However, a
unit can enter a bridge or ford hex., but only
from the hexsides where the bridge or ford is
connected to the banks of the river.
The Dragon may walk, slither, bound, or
land on a bridge, but it cannot enter the ford.
Of course, the Dragon could bound or fly
over the river instead.
Walls
No unit can climb over a wall hexside.
However, a gateway allows movement
through a wall hexside from the inside out
freely, or from either direction if it is
smashed.
There are wall gateways connecting
hexes 0606-0707 and 2113-2212, as well as
at either bank of the wooden bridges over the
river in 1407 and 1413.
Towers
A unit can only enter a tower Hex
through an entrance, or by bounding or
landing (from flight) on it directly. The player
defending the city controls all towers and
their entrances, and can enter or exit freely.
The Invader cannot use these entrances until
they are smashed, which permits free
passage to all.
Units in a tower are always considered
both 'in' and 'on top' of the tower.
Cavalry units cannot end movement in a
tower, although they may cross a tower by
following the road in hexes 0914, 1310 and
1511.
Roads
Any units can move along a road,
following it from Hex to Hex The road passes
through walls at the gates, and actually
passes through the lower floors of the towers
in 0914,1310, and 1511. The road does not
enter any other towers, so units entering or
leaving other towers cannot use road
movement. All three bridges have roadway
over them, so road movement can continue
across bridges.
A unit that follows the road for its entire
move uses its road MP value.
Note that the Dragons have no special
road MP value, and thus gain no benefit from
moving along a road.
Entrances to walls & towers
Entrances include both large gates (red)
and small doors (blue). Towers may have
either type of entrance on one or more sides,
while wall hexes sometimes have a gateway
(red) through them. Entrances are indicated
by a colored glow on the map. Only a unit
against that hexside (or moving over that
hexside) can use the entrance.
The City Defender automatically controls
all tower entrances, and can use them freely,
at no movement cost. The player who last
had a unit in the Hex on the inside part of a
wall gateway controls that gate, and can use
it freely. If a player does not control an

entrance, he cannot use it unless it is
smashed open. Once smashed, an entrance
cannot be repaired.
Smashing doors (blue)
A Dragon automatically smashes open a
door by simply facing it at any time during
movement (or at the end of its move). No MP
cost is required, and the Dragon can
continue moving into the tower if desired (if
the tower is occupied, see Overrun rules : a
dragon may not overrun in a tower).
Smashing gates (red)
A Dragon can attempt to smash a gate by
moving to face it while walking, and then
spending one or more MPs (from its
remaining MPs that move) to "smash" it. If
there is no City Defender unit on the other
side of the gate, after one MP is spent
smashing the gate automatically shatters.
Otherwise, when the MP expenditure is
made, one die is rolled. If the roll is equal to
or less than the MPs spent, the gate is
smashed; otherwise it is unaffected.
Smashing MPs cannot be accumulated from
turn to turn, and each Dragon must resolve
its attempt separately.
Movement could continue through the
gateway (if any MPs remain).
A Dragon with all legs destroyed can still
try to smash a red gate. Unguarded red gates
can be broken on a 6+ on 1d6, and gates
with city guards on the other side can be
broken on 11+ on 2d6.
Opening an entrance
A City Defender unit in a tower or behind
a gate may open it during its own player-turn
during combat, to make an attack out to an
enemy on the opposite side of the entrance.
In this case, the entrance remains open
throughout the following enemy (Invader)
player-turn, allowing the enemy to move (by
Overrun, unless the unit is in a tower) and
attack through it.
Destruction of bridges
The wooden bridges (on hexes 1407 and
1413) can be destroyed.
Troops
A unit of troops can destroy a bridge by
moving onto it, and not making any normal
melee or missile attacks that player turn.
Instead, place a "broken" marker
underneath. On the following player-turn, if
the unit is undestroyed, when it moves off,
the bridge is wrecked behind it, replace the
"broken" with a "burned" marker.
Dragons
A dragon will automatically destroy a
wooden bridge if it bounds onto it, or lands
from flight on it. A "broken" marker is placed
underneath the Dragon on the bridge. If the
Dragon does not leave on its next move, it
will fall into the river (which instantly kills a
Dragon).
Note: the stone bridge in Hex 1410 is
indestructible.
(1) Invading player movement
phase
The 'terrain and movement' section
above describes the effects of terrain on
movement during this phase.
Dragon Facing
A Dragon must face toward one of the six
adjacent hexes with the front (top) of the
counter. Facing is important in movement
and combat: if a Dragon is faced
ambiguously, the opposing player decides
which hexside it faces toward.
Rear
Face
Dragon Movement modes
Each turn, a Dragon may use only one of
the following four movement modes: Walk,
Slither, Bound, or Fly.
Walk
An undamaged dragon can walk 4 MP on
his turn. the Dragon damage record sheet
tracks the remaining MPs according to the
leg damage sustained so far.
A walking dragon gets one free 60°
rotation before each Hex movement, and
spends 1 MP for each Hex entered.
He may also make additional 60° turns at
the cost of 1MP each.
Movement and extra turning can be
combined in any order during a Walk move.
Slither (no attack)
A slithering Dragon may go forward,
snakelike, 1 Hex (directly forward, no turn
allowed); or turn 60° once while remaining in
place.
A slithering Dragon cannot move further,
nor make any attacks the same player-turn it
slithers.
As a result, slither moves are generally a
"last resort" used by a Dragon unable to

perform any other type of move!
Bound
At least half the Dragon's leg points and
wing points must be intact to permit this
movement mode (exception: a Dragon may
bound from a tower regardless of leg points
intact).
In a bound, the Dragon may first rotate
60 degrees right or left if desired, and then
bounds 1 to 3 hexes forward in a huge hop.
The Dragon may bound over any hex.,
including terrain normally impassable, and/or
hexes occupied by friendly or enemy units.
However, the Dragon cannot land on any unit
except a hero and/or wizard. Note that
because the bound must be in a straight line,
there are only nine hexes a Dragon could
bound into on such a move.
Example of bound options for a Dragon
Dragons can bound 1 to 3 hexes
Fly (no attack)
At least half the Dragon's wing points
must be intact to permit flying. Furthermore,
to take off at least half the leg points must
also be intact, or the Dragon must be making
a take off from a tower. The Dragon may
either take off or land in addition to flying,
but cannot both take off and land during the
same movement phase.
In a flying move, the Dragon must move
straight forward at least two hexes, then it
can turn 60° left or right, then it can move
another two hexes, turn again, etc. No other
turns are allowed while flying, even if taking
off or landing also.
Overall, a Dragon can fly up to 6 hexes
each turn. A Dragon in flight is denoted by
using the "in flight" version of the counter.
This shows it is at 60-90 meter altitude. A
Dragon in flight is flying above all terrain and
units, it can ignore both. A Dragon that
begins its move in flight may land in the Hex
where it starts (no change of facing is
possible, obviously), but the landing still
counts as part of a flight move (prohibiting
any other type of move, and attacking that
phase).
A flying Dragon cannot land on any unit
except a hero and/or wizard.
A dragon cannot make attacks if it made a
flying move that turn.
Crash
A bounding or flying Dragon will "crash"
if it is in the same Hex as a Whirlwind spell,
or is in flight and has its wing points reduced
below half.
When it crashes, the Dragon lands in that
hex., and suffers 2d6 wound points. The
Dragon player determines how these damage
points are distributed over its body. If the
Dragon crashes into any river or sea hex., it
instantly dies. Units in the crash Hex must
roll to "escape" or are killed, and any victory
point locations or wooden bridges are
destroyed (scored).
To escape, a unit must roll its escape
number (printed on the counter) or more on
1d6 or be destroyed. Each unit has its
"escape" determined separately.
A Dragon in a tower with one or more
wing points remaining may deliberately fall
out of the tower in any direction and crash
into the neighboring Hex below. Of course,
the Dragon must suffer the crash result (2d6
damage). Crashing replaces the normal move
of a Dragon.
Overrun attacks and movement
Overrun attack or movement only applies
when walking on the ground, never when
slithering, bounding, or flying.
overrun attacks
A Dragon may make an overrun attack
only while walking. This allows the Dragon to
move into the Hex occupied by any enemy
unit, at a cost of 1 MP extra. A Dragon
cannot bound or fly into an enemy-occupied
Hex. A Dragon cannot overrun inside a tower,
due to the small space, but it can overrun
through an open or smashed gate in a wall.
An overrun attack is resolved the instant
it occurs, with the Dragon worth six combat
strength for this purpose. See Combat
resolution Table for details on how to resolve
it. After the attack, the Dragon may continue
moving, or simply sit there (on top of the
enemy, if the attack failed).

Overrun movement
A walking Dragon may simply overrun
through an enemy-occupied Hex. In this case,
the beast simply passes through the hex.,
ignoring the enemy units. An overrun move is
prohibited if the monster must stop in the
enemy occupied Hex. (E.g., if it has no
movement point left with which to make an
overrun attack, described above.) Overrun
moves are prohibited inside a tower.
(2) Dragonfire phase
A Dragon that is neither flying nor
slithering may "breathe fire" with its head.
This is done in the dragonfire phase before
normal melee combat in the Invader's player-
turn.
A flying Dragon may breathe fire onto a
tower Hex if the Dragon neither took off nor
landed that turn. Only tower hexes can be hit
by fire from a flying Dragon.
The head has a combat strength of zero
(0) on the turn it breathes fire -- in effect, the
head cannot be used for other attacks for the
remainder of the turn.
Range
Dragonfire is breathed into any one of
the three hexes to the front of the dragon. It
then extends to a second Hex directly beyond
the first, in a straight line from the Dragon.
The dragonfire cannot be breathed into the
Hex the dragon occupies.
A Dragon cannot breathe fire through a
wall or into a tower except through an open
entrance. If breathing fire into a tower, if that
is the first Hex (of the two), the fire stops
within the tower, and travels no further.
Effect
All units in hexes hit by dragonfire are
destroyed unless they escape. To escape, a
unit must roll its escape number (printed on
the counter) or more on 1d6. Any unit in a
tower has a +2 bonus to the die roll. Each
unit has its "escape" determined separately.
Dragonfire into a Victory Points Hex will
always destroy it, except for towers : If the
dragon is on the ground level, only
dragonfire breathed through an open
entrance will destroy the Hex If he is flying,
dragonfire on a tower will always destroy it.
Fire limitations
A Dragon can only breathe fire twice in a
game.
(3) Invading player melee phase
Types of Dragon attacks
Each area of the Dragon, except its belly,
can be used for an attack. The head can bite,
the wings buffet, and the legs claw and kick.
Each area has one or more "groups", each
with a combat strength for attacks. As an
area takes damage, groups are destroyed,
and thus the combat strength for attacks will
decrease.
The head of the Dragon is one group,
with a combat strength of 3. The wings of the
Dragon form two groups, each with a
strength of 2. The legs of the Dragon form
four groups, each with a strength of 1.
Attack limitations
Each type of group can only attack
certain hexes, depending on the facing of the
Dragon, and terrain. See the diagram below
for the terminology used for various
directions and facings:
Around means all six hexes surrounding
the Dragon. Underneath means the Hex the

Dragon occupies. Above means any tower
Hex around the Dragon.
The Head can only attack to the front
including above, and underneath. The Wings
can only attack to the front including above.
The legs can attack all around and
underneath, but not above.
Various groups from one or more areas of
the Dragon may combine to attack a single
Hex. If the entire, undamaged Dragon
combines its combat strength to attack one
Hex (it would have to be to the front), the
total would be 11 (3 + [2x2] + [4x1] = 3 + 4
+ 4 = 11). The various areas or groups can
attack separate hexes if desired.
Additional limitations
A dragon cannot make attacks if it made
a flying or a slither move that turn. It can
only attack over a wall or into a tower if an
entrance is open. Two or more dragons
cannot combine their combat strengths, each
Dragon must attack separately, and must
attack separate hexes.
Combat resolution table
To resolve the attack, total the combat
strength of all attacking areas, and reference
it against the combat strength of the city
force units in the target Hex in the combat
resolution table. If the result is a target
number (2 to 6), roll 1d6 : The defending unit
is destroyed on a roll equal or higher than
the target number. If the result is D, the
defending unit is destroyed. If the result is
M, the attacker misses and the attack has no
effect.
Extreme odds
11 indicates that you must roll the dice
twice and add results, the defending unit is
destroyed on a total of 11 or 12.
Multiple areas attacks
Two or more areas can combine combat
strengths to attack one enemy. If two or more
enemy units are stacked in the same hex.,
they must be attacked as one combined
group. Two or more different hexes with
enemies must be attacked separately (a
different attack against each hex.). Each area
can only make one melee attack per turn, no
matter how many enemies may be adjacent.
Walls & towers
A Dragon cannot make a melee attack
into or out of a tower, nor across a wall,
unless an open or smashed entrance is used
(i.e., the entrance is between the attacker
and his enemy).
Special characters in melee
Hero wounds
The first time a hero is
"killed" by any attack, he is just
wounded instead. Place a
wounded marker underneath
the hero counter. When a
wounded hero is "killed" he is
finally destroyed and removed from the
game. A wounded hero performs just like a
normal hero unless otherwise indicated.
Wizard
The wizard has special
magic spells (see Wizard Spells
section). In addition, when
stacked in a Hex with another
unit, the wizard adds his combat
strength only when attacked.
The wizard himself has no combat strength
to make attacks (but his reputation and
magic help protect him). This defensive
strength also applies if the wizard is alone in
a Hex.
Overrun
A dragon that made an overrun attack
move (see Movement) can still make normal
melee attacks. Note that if it overrunned and
stopped on a unit, and the overrun failed to
kill it, the Dragon can now make normal
attacks with head and/or legs "underneath"
itself.

(4) City forces spell-casting phase
The wizard & magic
Only the wizard can cast spells.
Spell points
Each time the wizard casts a spell, he
must use up a certain number of "spell
points." The spell points used vary with the
spell. The wizard only has ten (10)
spell points for the entire game. He
cannot use more, and when these
are exhausted, he is unable to cast
any more spells.
Casting spells
Spellcasting occurs at the beginning of
the player's turn, before any movement. The
player simply selects one spell from the list
below, uses the appropriate spell points, and
notes the effect. Markers are provided for
some, to indicate the area affected.
Casting limitations
A wizard cannot cast more than one spell
per turn. He may cast the same spell turn
after turn, or a different one each turn,
provided sufficient spell points remain.
The wizard may cast a spell into any Hex
within range, regardless of line of sight. The
wizard is presumed to have a crystal ball that
allows him to see "through" normal
obstacles.
Boost Morale spell (1-3 SP)
This spell costs 1 spell point, with an
extra cost of 1 spell point per Hex of radius
applied, up to a maximum cost of 3 points
(for 2 hexes radius).
The spell is cast into the wizard's own
hex., and if extra cost for radius is spent, will
extend one or two hexes outward from there
as well. The spell affects units on the same
side as the wizard only, and only for that
turn.
Melee attack effect : All units within
Boost Morale add one (+1) to the die roll
when resolving a normal melee attack. If
some units have Boost Morale, and some do
not in a melee attack, the addition is made
only if half or more of the combat strength
involved has Boost Morale.
Melee attack on dragons : All units
making a melee attack on a Dragon add one
(+1) to the die roll.
Escape bonus : If either the unit is hit by
dragonfire, or all heroes are dead, or both,
any escape die rolls have one added (+1).
Militia attack ability : A militia unit may
attack a Dragon without a hero being with or
adjacent to it.
Note: the effect of this spell is not
cumulative with normal bonuses due to a
hero. A unit can either take the effect of
boost morale, or a hero, but not both at the
same time.
Fog spell (2 SP)
This spell costs 2 spell points.
The spell can be cast into any Hex within
a radius of three from the wizard. The Fog
marker should be placed to show the Hex it's
cast into. The Fog itself covers that hex., and
all hexes within a radius of two from it (for a
total area of 19 hexes).
Duration : The Fog spell lasts until the
casting player's next spellcasting phase.
Then it dissipates.
Effect : No attacks or combat of any sort
(neither melee, missile, nor dragonfire) may
occur by units in the Fog, or against units in
the Fog. A dragon may neither bound into
nor out of Fog, nor may it land (from flight)
in Fog. A dragon can take off in Fog, bound
over it (if starting and ending outside of it),
and fly completely over Fog. A dragon may
still walk in Fog, and can destroy victory
points in the Fog.
Whirlwind spell (2 SP)
This spell costs 2 spell points. It is cast in
any Hex within four of the wizard. When cast,
place the "Whirlwind 1" marker in that Hex.
Duration & travel : The spell remains in
effect during the whole turn. On the caster's
next turn magic phase, replace the marker
with "Whirlwind 2" and move it randomly one
Hex. To determine the direction, roll one die,
1-N, 2-NE, 3-SE, 4-S, 5-SW, 6-NW. The spell
then lasts for one last turn in the new hex.,
and then dissipates on the beginning of the
caster's next magic phase.
Effects : A Whirlwind in a Hex prevents
any unit in that Hex from attacking, nor may
it be attacked (by missiles, melee or
Dragonfire). However, a Dragon in a
Whirlwind may attack with its head and legs
only.
A Dragon must spend one extra
movement point (+1 MP) to enter a
Whirlwind hex., and one extra to leave it. If
the monster flies or bounds into, out of, or
through a Whirlwind it crashes on a die roll
of 4+. If the monster is in flight, and the
Whirlwind occurs in its hex., it must roll for
crashing at that instant, but if it doesn't
crash, it can move out of the Hex during his
movement phase without needing a second
check.

Any victory points in a Hex occupied by a
Whirlwind are automatically destroyed.
Entrances and bridges are unaffected by a
Whirlwind. No units may unload from ships
onto docks covered by a Whirlwind.
Lightning spell (3 SP)
This spell costs 3 spell points. It is cast
into any Hex within four of the wizard, and
hits one unit in that Hex (selected by the
wizard casting it).
Effect : The power of the Lightning is 5
minus the distance (in hexes) the spell was
cast from. A Lightning cast into the same
Hex has a full power of 5, into an adjacent
Hex a power of 4, etc., to a power of 1 if cast
4 hexes away.
When cast at a Dragon, the strength of
the Lightning bolt is the number of damage
points inflicted on the Dragon (the Lightning
automatically hits). The Invader player
decides which areas are hit, but must give
each area one damage point before any area
is given two damage points. Areas as yet
undamaged are always the first to take
damage from Lightning.
(5) City forces reinforcements
phase
The City Defender receives
reinforcements from the sea starting on the
10th turn, and every fourth turn thereafter
(i.e., on the 14th, 18th, 22th, etc. turns).
These turns are marked in blue on the turn
track.
Each group of reinforcements consists of
four infantry troop units, which arrive on any
dock Hex along the seafront, and/or on the
wooden bridge in 1413. If the wooden bridge
is burned, reinforcements cannot be placed
there.
Reinforcements can only arrive in vacant
hexes at the start of the movement phase of
the player-turn. If insufficient vacant dock
and bridge hexes exist, those which cannot
arrive are delayed until the next turn.
If there are insufficient infantry counters
for reinforcements, due to all infantry
already being in play on the mapboard,
militia is substituted. If all infantry and
militia units are already in play, no additional
reinforcements are received until "dead"
units become available for reinforcements on
a subsequent reinforcement-arrival turn.
Dock hexes where reinforcements arrive
include 0815, 0915, 1014, 1115, 1315, and
1516 (as well as the bridge on 1413).
(6) City forces movement phase
The 'terrain and movement' section
above describes the effects of terrain on
movement during this phase.
Units are moved one at a time, but
movement of one may be halted temporarily
to move another.
A player can move as many or as few
units as desired, including all or none. A unit
need not move its full MP, it can move only
part instead. MP cannot be saved from turn
to turn, nor can it be transferred from one
unit to another. Movement only occurs
during the proper phase of the game turn.
(7) City forces archery phase
Only archer units may fire missiles.
An archer unit can either fire missiles or
make a normal melee attack, but not both in
the same turn. Such a unit can only fire
missiles once a turn, regardless of the
different target hexes available.
Line of sight
An archer unit must be able to see the
target Hex to fire on it. If firing from a tower,
any Hex can be hit. If the target is in a tower
or flying, it can be hit regardless of terrain (A
Line of Sight always exists to a flying
Dragon). In all other cases, the firer is unable
to see through any tower or wall hexside. To
determine this, trace a straight line from the
center of the firer's to the center of the
target's Hex. If the line intersects any part of
the wall or tower structures painted on the
map, firing is prohibited.
An archer may shoot through an entrance
in a wall, but only to the Hex immediately on
the opposite side. The smaller buildings
painted on the mapboard inside the city have
no effect on the line of sight (it is presumed
archers, etc. are in upper floors and on roofs;
however, buildings that act as walls still
block line of sight within the city).
Missile attacks against Dragons (5+, 6+)
Archers fire two hexes, three if from a
tower (and the target is neither in a tower,
nor flying).
To hit with missiles, one die is rolled.
At one Hex range and shooting at a
Dragon not in flight, a 5+ is needed to hit.
In any other situation, including any
firing at a flying Dragon, a 6+ is needed to
hit.
If the Dragon is flying when hit, it
automatically takes two damage points in the
belly.

If a Dragon is hit by missiles, it will suffer
one damage point in the wings, legs, or head
(area selected by the firer).
(8) City forces melee phase
Any unit in the same or a neighboring
Hex to a Dragon may attack it. Melee attacks
are prohibited if either unit or Dragon is in a
tower, but both are not, or if the attack is
across a wall hexside, or if the Dragon is in
flight.
When a unit attacks, it indicates what
area of the Dragon is being attacked, and
rolls one die. If the proper number results,
the Dragon is hit.
When a Dragon is hit, the number of
damage points inflicted equals the combat
strength of the attacker. Thus a unit with
combat strength 2 will cause two damage
points with each hit.
The head (6+)
Can only be attacked from the Hex
directly in front of the Dragon, or from any
tower Hex around it (i.e., any Hex above it).
A die roll of 6+ is needed to hit, and the head
is a single group with 8 hit points.
Once both wings and all 4 legs are lost,
the dragon's head can be attacked from all
three front hexes.
The wings (4+)
Can be attacked from the four side hexes
or any Hex above it. A die roll is 4+ is needed
to hit, and the wings are in two groups, each
with 6 hit points.
The legs (5+)
Can be attacked from any except above.
A die roll of 5+ is needed to hit, and the legs
are in four groups, each with 3 hit points.
The belly (4+)
Can only be attacked from underneath (in
the same hex.) A die roll of 4+ is needed to
hit, and the belly is one group with 6 hit
points.
damage points on Dragons
Each successful attack on a Dragon
inflicts damage points. The number of
damage points suffered equals the combat
strength of the attacker.
Location of damage
When an attack is made, the attacker
must indicate which area on the Dragon is
being targeted before rolling the dice. This
often influences the die roll needed to hit. If
the attack is successful, that area is hit.
Some areas cannot be hit from some
positions.
When an area is hit, the first group (if
more than one) in that area always takes the
damage first.
When enough damage accumulates to
destroy the first group, the next group takes
the damage, etc. When an entire group is
destroyed, its combat strength for attacks
drops to zero (0). If an entire area is
destroyed, any further hits on that area have
no effect.
Note that groups are always marked off
one after another, regardless of the direction
of attack. This is a game device to represent
gradually decreasing strength and power. A
specific group within an area does not
correspond to any specific part of the body.
Head area damage
When the entire head area (one group of
8 damage points) is destroyed, the Dragon
cannot use dragonfire anymore, and goes
berserk.
A berserk Dragon only moves if not
facing an enemy. It will rotate to face the
nearest unit, and if none are adjacent, will
walk, slither or bound toward the nearest
enemy unit and attack. After each Invader
melee phase, roll one die for each berserk
Dragon. On a result of 5+, the Dragon dies.
In addition, when the head area is
destroyed, it cannot be used in combat
anymore.
Wing area damage
When one entire group of wings is
destroyed (there are two, each of 6 damage
points), the Dragon can neither fly nor
bound. The loss of a wing group also
eliminates that group from combats.
Leg area damage
Each leg group destroyed (there are four,
each of 3 damage points) reduces the
movement points of a walking Dragon by one
(-1 MP/leg group lost). In addition, the loss of
a leg group eliminates that group from
combats. When all leg groups are destroyed,
the Dragon is unable to walk or bound, and
can only take off for flight from a tower.
Belly area damage
When the entire belly area (one group of
6 damage points) is destroyed, the Dragon
immediately dies.
Dead dragons
When a Dragon dies, it collapses in the
Hex it occupies. Any other unit in the Hex
must roll its escape number or higher to

avoid being crushed and destroyed. Any
victory points in the Hex are destroyed and
scored by the Invader player. The Hex
becomes impassable to all units, even other
monsters, although a unit may fly or bound
over it.
Heroes & militia hero attacks
When any unit is attacking a Dragon, add
one (+1) to the die roll of all attacks if the
hero is next to or stacked with the unit. This
only applies if the hero is not wounded. If
wounded, the hero does not cause this
addition.
The hero unit itself also adds one (+1) to
its die roll when attacking a Dragon.
Militia leadership
The militia units are untrained and poorly
disciplined troops. They will not attack a
Dragon unless a hero is in the same or
adjacent hex., or they are within the
influence of a "Boost Morale" spell from the
wizard. In either case, the militia would add
one (+1) to its attack die roll, due to the hero
or the morale spell.
Death of a hero
If a player had heroes among his units,
and all are dead, the rest of his forces
become demoralized. The demoralized units
must "check morale" successfully each time
they wish to attack a Dragon. If the unit fails,
it cannot attack that player-turn. Archers
need not check morale to fire missiles.
Each unit checks morale separately, by
rolling one die, and adding one (+1). If the
result is greater than or equal to the escape
number, it passes morale and may attack that
player-turn. If the result is less than the
escape number for that unit, it fails morale
and cannot attack.
(9) Advance turn pointer
The city defender player concludes his
turn by advancing the turn pointer.
Players continue taking turns until either
the invader player or the city defending
player meets his victory conditions.
This concludes the 'Game Manual' booklet. You should stop
reading here and start a game right away, even if solo! We
recommend you play the basic game a few times before you
move on to the full rules detailed in the rules reference
manual.
Credits
Original Game : Game design by Lewis Pulsipher, development by Lewis Pulsipher and Arnold
Hendrick. Playtesting by Robert Dudley, Kevin Garbleman, Albie Fiore. Bob Lansdell, Mundy
Peale, Jim Adams, Mark Humphreys, lan Livingstone, Sue Pulsipher, Martin Crim, Keith Ivey,
Roland Gettliffe, Eric Bracey. Steve Raymond, and others; and Albert Pare, Cameron Owen,
Rommie Stults, and Bruce Webster.
Revised edition : Game design by Lewis Pulsipher, development by Lewis Pulsipher and Eric
Hanuise. Graphic design by Eric Hanuise (maps, play aids, rules) , David Collignon (old style
counters) Lionel Liron (new style counters) and Miguel Coimbra (cover art).
Revised Edition Playtesting : Eric hanuise, Jean-Michel gevels, Axel Calingaert, Olivier
Caprini, Alain Peters, Alain Gotcheiner, Marc Dave, Marc Elsoght, Frederic Moyersoen,
Olivier Doyen, Jean Lognay, Serge Lehman, Greg Charles, Frederic Prévot, Anthony Desert,
Vincent Boulanger, Romain Laurent, Didier Vandamme.