DragonLance RULES BY LIUMAS 
2014-08
 
Illustrated condensed rules. All Basic and Advanced rules nicely 
formatted and condensed down to 8 pages. Suitable for printing 
in color or black and white. I printed out 2 in b&w for the group. 
 
Page 2-4: Basic game rules – play a full game with just this. 
 
Page 5-8: Advanced and Optional game rules. 
 
UPDATE 2014-07: Rules fix courtesy Marshal Anderson (thanks!), 
and very slight barely noticeable formatting changes.
UPDATE 2014-08: Picture fix – switched Verminaard with Gunthar. 
 
 
 
 
GAME
DESIGNER
BGG ID
DragonLance 1988 
Michael S. Dobson, Scott Haring, Warren Spector 
 
8 pages intended for printing on double-sided sheets. 
 
Chris Conboy August 2014, July 2014, April 2012, July 2006 
Liumas at BoardGameGeek 
cconboy@optonline.net 
chris@ageofgods.com 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1988 
 
Warren Spector 
Michael S. Dobson 
Scott Haring 
 
60 Minutes 
2 – 6 Players 

 
 
 
OBJECT 
The game is won immediately by the player who has 
one of their dragons carry the DragonLance from the 
tower back to one of their lair hexes and then 
descends the dragon to zero altitude. 
 
BASIC GAME SETUP 
 Place the tower, walls, and 6 gates in the board 
center. Place the DragonLance atop the tower. 
 Leader characters, magic items, and flying 
citadels are not used. 
 Ignore the Mountains, Forest, and Water, and also 
the arrows printed on the board. 
 Shuffle the 24 magic spell cards. 
 Each player chooses a dragon horde color, and 
sits near that color lair. Place all 5 dragons of the 
horde, one in each hex of its lair. 
 High roll goes first, play then proceeds clockwise 
in lair order. 
 
ADVANCED GAME SETUP 
As above, with the following changes. 
 Deal or choose leader characters. Each player 
controls their leader’s dragon horde. 
 The optional advanced terrain rules may be used. 
2 or 3 Player Option: Each player controls 2 hordes 
on opposite board sides. Hordes may not share 
cards. 
 
2 Player Option: As above, but each player controls 
3 opposite hordes. 
 
GAME TURN 
On their turn each player can move, fight, draw and 
play cards, and capture the DragonLance. All 
movement points must be used, but all other 
activities are optional. Actions can be done in any 
order, except as noted below. 
 
Definitions 
Courtyard: Center area between the tower and walls. 
Horde: All of a single color of dragons. 
Lancer: Dragon currently holding the DragonLance. 
Level: Altitude, marked by the white altitude chips. 
 
 
MOVEMENT 
 
Movement Points 
Roll 1d10 at the beginning of each player turn to 
determine movement points. If a 1 or a 2 is rolled 
then the player may draw a magic card. All 
movement points must be used during the turn, 
unless the player only has 1 dragon and is somehow 
blocked and unable to use all the points. 
 
Movement points can all be used for a single dragon 
or split as desired among any of that player’s 
dragons. It costs 1 point to move 1 hex any direction, 
and also to ascend or descend 1 altitude level. 
 
Altitude 
All dragons start the game at zero altitude. A dragon 
may not move to another hex unless it is at an 
altitude greater than zero. It costs 1 movement point 
to ascend or descend 1 level of altitude. 
 
Stack altitude markers under a dragon to mark its 
current altitude. If all altitude markers in the game are 
in use then no dragon may ascend higher. 
 
A dragon may ascend or descend as many levels as 
desired while staying in the same hex. A dragon may 
not both ascend and descend in the same hex. 
A dragon may not end its move at an altitude greater 
than 10 but may be higher than 10 during its move. 
Illegal Moves 
No dragon may enter or move through a hex 
containing another dragon, regardless of either 
dragon’s altitude. 
 
A dragon may only be at altitude zero at the 
beginning of the game or at the end of the game 
when it lands on a lair hex with the DragonLance. If a 
dragon goes to altitude zero at any 
other time (voluntarily or as a combat 
result) then that dragon crashes and 
is removed from the board. 
 
A dragon may not go back and forth 
between 2 hexes more than once 
(see diagram). 
 
Tower Courtyard 
A dragon may only enter the Tower 
Courtyard through its own color gate. A dragon may 
leave the courtyard through any gate. To pass 
through a gate a dragon must be at altitude 4 or less. 
 
Only 1 dragon of a given color may be in the 
courtyard at the same time. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
COMBAT 
 
A dragon may attack any other dragon of a different 
color if it enters an adjacent hex and both are at the 
same altitude. It costs no movement points to attack. 
Each dragon may attack up to once per turn. A 
dragon who starts next to another dragon may attack 
without moving. 
 
A dragon may not be attacked while it is at zero 
altitude or if it is atop the Tower. 
 
Combat and Movement may be done in any order. A 
dragon may move, then attack, then move away at 
the end of the battle. 
 
Combat Roll 
The attacking dragon rolls 1d10 then adds its attack 
modifiers. The defender then rolls 1d10 and adds any 
defense modifiers. Higher rolls wins. If the roll is tied 
then there is no winner. Magic cards played as part of 
the battle must be played before any dice are rolled. 
 
Combat Results 
The losing dragon drops in altitude by 1 level for 
every point by which it lost the battle. 
Example: The winner rolled a 9, the loser rolled a 7. 
Thus the loser drops 2 levels of altitude. 
 
Attack Modifiers (3 types) 
 
Movement: Every movement point the attacker used 
to move into attack position is added to the die roll. 
Example: If the dragon move 3 hexes then ascended 
4 levels, then it would add +7 to the combat die roll. 
The path moved does not have to be a direct path. 
DragonLance: Add +5 to the 1d10 roll. 
Magic Cards: Attacker can choose to play a magic 
card which adds an attack modifier. 
 
Defense Modifiers (2 types) 
 
DragonLance: Add +5 to the 1d10 roll. 
Magic Cards: Defender may choose to play a magic 
card which adds a defense modifier. 
 
Death & Crashing 
If a dragon drops to level zero or less as a result of 
combat then it crashes and is out of the game. Once 
all of a player’s dragons have crashed that player is 
out of the game. 
 
The Tower Courtyard 
The courtyard must be entered through the gate of 
the same color as the dragon. A dragon may exit 
through any gate. Only 1 dragon of a given color may 
be in the courtyard at the same time. 
 
A dragon must pass through a gate at 4 altitude or 
less, whether entering or leaving. Neither a gate nor 
a wall may be flown over. The magic card Passwall 
will allow a dragon to pass through a wall. 
A dragon on one side of a gate may attack a dragon 
on the other side through the gate, as long as both 
are at the same level. If 2 dragon are on either side of 
a gate, but at different altitudes, then the entrance 
through that gate is blocked until one moves away. 
 
If a player has only 1 dragon left in the game, and is 
inside the courtyard and the situation is such that 
they can’t use all of their movement points, then any 
unused points are discarded. The dragon must move 
as much as it can. 
 
The Tower (Altitude 10) 
The DragonLance begins the game on top of the 
tower in the center of the board. 
 
To enter the tower a dragon must be in an adjacent 
courtyard hex and must be at altitude 10. To enter 
then costs 1 movement point. Place the dragon on 
the tower, with no altitude markers; put the 
DragonLance into its slot on the dragon. 
 
A dragon ends its move when it is placed on the 
tower and picks up the DragonLance. Any remaining 
movement points must be used by other dragons, 
unless this is the player’s only dragon (in which case 
any remaining movement points are discarded). 
 
A dragon that has picked up the DragonLance must 
leave the tower on its next turn. A dragon sitting atop 
the tower cannot be attacked. If the DragonLance 
has been taken from the tower then no dragon may 
land there. 
 
A dragon may fly over the tower by ascending to an 
altitude of 11 or higher, but must end its movement at 
an altitude 10 or less. A dragon may do this fly over 
regardless of whether the DragonLance is there. 
 
The DragonLance 
The dragon carrying the DragonLance is called the 
Lancer, and receives +5 to all combat rolls, both 
attack and defense. Possession of the DragonLance 
is required to win the game. 
 
Attack to Capture the DragonLance 
A dragon may attack the Lancer to capture the 
DragonLance instead of a regular attack. This must 
be declared before dice are rolled. The Lancer gets 
an additional +3 defense in this case. The attack is 
handled in all other ways as a regular attack. 
If the attacker wins he takes the DragonLance from 
the defender and becomes the Lancer. The defender 
does not lose any altitude. If the attacker loses then 
that dragon loses altitude as in a regular attack. In a 
tie there is no affect. 
 
Attacking the Lancer Normally 
The Lancer gets the +5 DragonLance combat bonus 
but does not get the extra +3 for defending against a 
capture attempt. If the Lancer is reduced to zero or 
less altitude then he has crashed and is eliminated – 
return the DragonLance to the Tower. 

 
 
 
MAGIC CARDS 
There are 24 magic cards which grant bonuses and 
special abilities. A player draws a magic card 
whenever 1 or 2 is rolled for movement. Except for 
Haste all cards may be played as soon as they are 
drawn. Magic cards are held secretly, with no limit to 
the number each player may hold at one time. 
 
Any player may play cards on anyone’s turn, but a 
player may only play 1 magic card per dragon they 
control per turn. Once played the card is discarded. 
Reshuffle the discards as needed to form a new draw 
pile. If no magic card is available in the draw or 
discard pile when a player rolls a 1 or 2 for movement 
then no card is drawn (they don’t get to make up for it 
later when cards become available). 
 
Cloudkill / Cone Of Cold / Fireball / 
Incendiary Cloud / Lightning Bolt / Power Word 
Each gives +6 to an attacking dragon. One color 
dragon is immune to each of these, as noted on the 
card, but that color dragon may still play the card on 
someone else. 
 
Meteor Swarm 
Gives an attacking dragon +9. No color is immune. 
 
Globe Of Invulnerability 
Gives a defending dragon +10. 
 
Magic Missile 
Gives an attacking or defending dragon +3. 
 
Dispel Magic 
May be played any time after another magic card has 
been played to cancel the 1st card’s effect. The Dispel 
Magic player need not be targeted by the 1st card. If 2 
or more magic cards are in effect when Dispel Magic 
is played then only the last played card is dispelled. 
 
A Dispel Magic may cancel a Dispel Magic, in which 
case the original card the 1st Dispel Magic was 
played on goes back into effect. 
 
Fear 
Play this on one of your dragons. All dragons in 
adjacent hexes must move away, regardless of their 
altitude. Dragons move away in clockwise order 
starting with any dragon the card player chooses. A 
moving dragon chooses which hex it moves to, as 
long as the new hex is not still adjacent. If a dragon 
can’t flee (eg, blocked by a wall) it instead loses 1d10 
levels (this may cause it to crash). No movement 
points are spent to move away. 
If Fear is played during another player’s turn then no 
dragon may enter a hex adjacent to the target dragon 
for the remainder of that player’s turn. Thus the target 
dragon may not be attacked for the rest of this turn. 
This card may be played after an attack is announced 
to cancel that attack, but it must be played before any 
dice are rolled. 
 
The Lancer is immune to Fear, but may play the card 
to affect other dragons. 
 
Haste 
Play this card before rolling the d10 for movement. 
Instead, roll 2d10 for movement, and add them 
together. Draw a magic card for any roll of 1 or 2, 
possibly drawing up to 2 cards. If dispelled then 1d10 
is rolled for movement as normal. 
 
Passwall 
Allows a dragon to cross a tower courtyard outer wall, 
in either direction and at any altitude, via any non-
gate 
hex. 
The 
dragon 
may 
attack 
normally 
afterwards. 
 
If dispelled then the 
Passwall 
does 
not 
occur. 
The 
moving 
player may take back 
movement 
and 
combat action for that 
dragon (and only for 
that dragon) as if it 
never occurred. 
 
Teleport 
Allows a player to move any one of his or her 
dragons to any legal space and altitude, including to 
the top of the tower. The dragon may not teleport to a 
space occupied by another dragon, and may not 
teleport to an altitude higher than 10. The Lancer 
may not teleport. 
 
This movement costs zero movement points. But any 
movement before or after the teleport is still added in 
as a combat attack modifier. Example: A dragon 10 
hexes away from its target moves 6 hexes and then 
teleports next to the target. The attacker will add +6 
to the combat roll. The additional 4 hexes moved by 
the teleport do not increase the attack modifier. 
 
If dispelled then the Teleport does not occur. The 
moving player may take back the movement and 
combat action for that dragon (and only for that 
dragon) as if it never occurred. 
 
GAME END & WINNING 
The game is won immediately when the Lancer lands 
on one of his own color lair hexes and descends to 
zero altitude. 
 
If the Lancer is in such a lair hex at a higher altitude 
but then descends to zero as a result of damage then 
the Lancer does not win, but instead crashes and is 
eliminated – return the DragonLance to the tower. 
GAME HINTS 
 Get all your dragons in the air to provide more options. 
 Keep your dragons flying high, and thus harder to kill. 
 Don’t go after the DragonLance right away. 
 Try to eliminate other dragons. 
 Don’t chase the Lancer. Head to where he must go and 
get him there instead. Place your dragons in his lair 
hexes so he will have to fight there in order to win. 
 Use magic cards carefully. You may only get 2 or 3 all 
game. Don’t get left with them at game end. 

 
 
 
Flying Citadels – ADVANCED GAME 
6 flying citadels circle the tower. Each is a moving 
obstacle and each contains a powerful magic item. 
 
Setup: Randomly 
place the 6 citadels 
face down on the 6 
dots around the tower. 
 
Movement 
Each of the citadels will 
move just before each of the 1st player’s turns (don’t 
move them on the very 1st turn). Each moves 1 hex 
along the ring of clouds in the direction indicated. A 
flying citadel completely blocks its hex, from altitude 
zero through 10. A dragon temporarily flying higher 
may fly over a citadel. If a citadel hits a dragon when 
it moves then it has collided with it (see Collisions). 
 
Entering A Citadel 
Each entrance is at altitude 3. A dragon may fly into a 
citadel from any adjacent hex at altitude 3 by 
spending 1 movement point. A dragon ends its 
movement upon entering (any remaining movement 
must be spent on other dragons unless this is the 
player’s only dragon). A dragon inside a flying citadel 
may not attack nor be attacked, and must leave next 
turn. The Lancer may never enter a flying citadel. 
 
A dragon may not leave a citadel and return to it in 
the same turn, though it may fly from one citadel to a 
different one within a turn. 
 
Searching For Magic Items 
A dragon entering a citadel may immediately search 
for the magic item hidden there by rolling 1d10, 
where 5 or better is success. On 4 or less the search 
fails, and the dragon must simply leave next turn. The 
citadel remains on the board after searching. 
 
If the search is successful, pick up the citadel and 
look at its bottom. Each has a different item, and is 
labeled Good (Gold, Silver, Bronze) or Evil (Red, 
Blue, Green). A dragon must be the correct color to 
wield an item. If the alignments match then the player 
takes the corresponding magic item card. If the item 
has already been taken then the player is out of luck. 
 
Collisions 
If a flying citadel runs into a dragon then the dragon 
loses 1d10 levels, possibly crashing. If the dragon 
does not crash then it is pushed ahead of the citadel 
along the cloud ring. If the next hex along the ring is 
occupied by another dragon then the pushed dragon 
may instead move to any hex adjacent to where he 
started. If all possible escape routes are blocked then 
the dragon automatically crashes and is eliminated. 
 
If the Same Hex, Different Altitude option is in use 
then the dragon may escape to a different altitude of 
an occupied hex. 
 
Magic Items – ADVANCED GAME 
There are 6 magic items, one in each flying citadel. 
Only Good dragons can use the Good items (Gold, 
Silver, Bronze), only Evil dragons can use the Evil 
items (Red, Blue, Green). 
 
A dragon may carry up to 1 magic item, and a given 
player may only control up to 2 (on 2 different 
dragons). The item’s power only works for the dragon 
carrying it, not for its entire horde; so mark the 
dragon in some way to identify it. If the dragon is 
killed then its item is removed from play permanently. 
An item can be ‘captured’, just like attempting to 
capture the DragonLance. The defending dragon 
gets +3 bonus. Failure: attacker receives damage 
normally. Success: remove the magic item card from 
play; the item is again eligible to be found by 
searching its citadel. 
 
The Lancer cannot also carry a magic item. If a 
dragon with an item takes the DragonLance then the 
magic item is dropped; remove the card from play; 
the item can again be found by searching its citadel. 
 
Shield Of Huma (Good) 
A dragon carrying the shield subtracts 4 from 
any damage taken in combat or from colliding 
with a citadel. Does not protect against 
altitude lost from Fear. 
 
Hammer Of Kharas (Good) 
Wielder adds 3 to the damage 
given in a successful attack. 
 
Flute Of Wind Dancing (Good) 
When 
used 
it 
completely 
negates the affect of a single 
attack – ignore any damage. 
Also negates damage from a citadel collision and from 
Fear. The flute is a one-shot deal: after use it 
magically returns to its citadel. Note that this only 
negates damage, and cannot negate a capture attack. 
 
Dragon Armor (Evil) 
Subtract 4 from any damage done due to lost 
combat or collision with a flying citadel. 
 
Staff Of Magius (Evil) 
This one-use item can be 
invoked when taking damage 
from losing combat, a citadel 
collision, or from Fear. When used, the dragon 
ignores the damage, and instead moves 2 hexes 
away in any direction (player’s choice) and goes to 
altitude 2. After use it returns to its citadel. Note that 
this cannot alter the affect of a capture attack. 
 
Nightbringer Mace (Evil) 
Wielder gets +3 in combat when 
attacking. No bonus on defense. 

 
 
 
Leader Characters – ADVANCED GAME 
Each of the 6 characters are color coded to match a 
particular dragon horde. Each grants different special 
abilities to all dragons controlled by that player. Either 
have players choose a character or randomly deal 
one to each player. 
 
Tanis – Bronze Dragon Rider 
His powerful bow lets the Tanis player make 
ranged attacks under 3 circumstances: 
1) Attacking dragon is at the same altitude as the 
target but is 2 hexes away. 
2) Attacking dragon is in a hex adjacent to the 
target, but is 1 level higher or lower. 
3) Attacking dragon is in the same hex as target, but 
is 2 levels higher or lower (only possible if using 
the optional rule Same Hex, Different Altitude). 
 
When making a ranged attack the player suffers a –2 
combat bonus, but combat is otherwise normal. If 
Tanis wins the target takes normal damage. If Tanis 
loses he takes no damage, since he is out of range! 
 
A ranged attack may be made through a gate but 
only if both Tanis and the defender are at the same 
altitude and a clear straight path can be drawn 
between them. 
 
Ranged attacks may not be used to capture the 
DragonLance or any magic item. 
Gilthanas – Silver Dragon Rider 
He provides natural toughness. The Gilthanas 
player gets a +2 combat bonus to all defense 
rolls. This does not apply when attacking. 
 
Lord Gunthar – Gold Dragon Rider 
His great affinity for magic allows the Lord 
Gunthar player to always have at least 1 
magic card (including at the beginning of the 
game). Any time the player casts their last 
spell he or she immediately draws another. 
If there are none available then Lord 
Gunthar gets one as soon as one is 
discarded. Note that this player may not 
simply discard magic cards hoping to get 
better ones, but must actually use the cards. 
 
Verminaard – Red Dragon Rider 
He provides great strength. The Verminaard 
player gets a +2 combat bonus to all attack 
rolls. Does not apply on defense. 
 
Kitiara – Blue Dragon Rider 
She is a great and powerful leader. The 
Kitiara player gets 2d10 in combat and 
chooses the better of the 2 rolls. This may be 
used when attacking and defending. 
 
Lord Toede – Green Dragon Rider 
His natural cunning and maneuverability let 
the player roll 2d10 for movement and pick 
either one. 
 
Official Optional Rules (for Basic or Advanced Game) 
 
Individual Leaders 
Only 1 dragon gets the benefit of the horde’s leader 
character. The leader rides a particular dragon – if 
that dragon is killed then so is the leader. 
 
Horde Limit 
Limit the number of dragons of any single horde color 
that can be in the air at one time to 3, 2, or even 1. 
For a quicker game have each horde start with fewer 
dragons – the fewer, the quicker the game. 
 
Resurrection 
For a longer game allow 1 killed dragon to restart in 
your lair, at a cost of any 3 (or 4) magic cards. 
 
Counter–Attack Magic 
Magic cards that normally only give a combat bonus 
when attacking can also be used when defending. 
 
Multiple Magic 
A dragon may use more than 1 magic card each turn. 
 
Replenishing Magic Items 
When a dragon carrying a magic item crashes, 
instead of removing it from play it magically returns to 
its flying citadel. 
TERRAIN (Optional) 
Most hexes are Open and have no game effect, 
including the ring of clouds and the lair hexes. There 
are 3 other terrains that affect play. 
 
Forest: 
Dense, 
tall 
woods. 
A 
dragon must be at level 3 or higher 
to fly into or through. If a dragon is in 
forest at an altitude of 2 or less (say, 
as a result of damage in combat) 
then the dragon crashes and is 
eliminated. 
 
Mountain: Tall, dangerous peaks. A 
dragon must be at level 5 or higher to 
fly into or through. If a dragon is in a 
mountain hex at level 4 or less then 
the dragon crashes and is eliminated. 
 
Water: Large lakes around the forbidden tower. If a 
dragon is forced to level zero or lower while in a 
water hex then the dragon is not eliminated; the 
water breaks its fall. The dragon 
misses its next turn then can fly away 
normally. During the missed turn the 
dragon cannot move or attack, nor be 
attacked. If the dragon was carrying 
a magic item then the item is not lost. 

 
 
 
Optional Movement Rules 
 
Unlimited Altitude 
Dragons may fly as high as they like, limited only by 
the number of available altitude markers. 
 
Easy Diving 
A dragon may descend 1, 2, or 3 altitude levels 
(player’s choice) for each movement point spent. 
Climbing still costs 1 point per altitude level. 
 
If using the Basic Game rule of linking combat bonus 
to the number of movement points spent then a 
dragon gets a combat bonus for each altitude level 
dropped. Example: A dragon moves forward 2 hexes 
and drops 6 levels to make an attack. The dragon 
gets +8 combat bonus even though only 4 movement 
points were spent. 
 
Realistic Movement – Facing 
Hex facing now matters. Some other 
optional rules depend on Facing. 
 
1) Dragon may not climb or descend 
while staying in the same hex. 
2) Dragon may climb no more than 2 levels for 
every hex of forward movement. 
3) Dragon may descend no more than 4 levels for 
every hex of forward movement. 
4) Dragon may only turn up to 60° for each hex it 
moves forward. Turns of 120° or 180° are not 
allowed (see diagrams below). A dragon may 
turn and move forward, or move forward and then 
turn. Turning costs no movement points. 
 
 
 
 
 
Same Hex, Different Altitude 
A dragon may enter an occupied hex if the dragons 
are at different altitudes. The 2nd dragon can move 
through the hex or stop there. There can be up to 10 
dragons in a hex, each at a different altitude. 
 
The problem is fitting the dragon minis in the hex. 
Consider taking the dragons off the board and using 
small markers on the board. 
 
A dragon may attack another dragon in the same hex 
as long as both are in adjacent levels of altitude. 
 
Realistic Combat Movement Bonus 
Instead of adding the number of movement points 
spent to get to an attack position, use the following. 
 
1) If the attacker began its move at a higher altitude 
than the defender then the attacker gets +2. If the 
attacker was lower then the defender gets +2. If they 
are at the same level then neither gets a bonus. 
 
2) If the attacker is directly behind the defender then 
the attacker gets +2. If the attacker is in any of the 
defender’s flank hexes (see diagram below) then it 
gets +1. An attacker directly in front gets no bonus. 
 
3) A dragon at a higher altitude attacking another in 
the same hex gets +3. Ignore facing in this case. 
 
All combat bonuses are cumulative. 
 
 
 
Ranged Attack (Tanis): 
The player may have a 
choice as to which hex to 
trace the line of attack 
through, and may choose 
best 
one. 
In 
example diagram Tanis 
could choose to target 
through the Rear and thus 
get a +2. 

 
 
 
Aerial Stunts 
Special moves that allow dragons to go beyond many 
movement restrictions. Each stunt lists in italics the 
cost in movement points. A player also must usually 
discard magic cards (without invoking their spells). 
 
Loop 
4 movement points & 1 magic card 
Puts dragon 2 hexes directly behind its start position, 
at the same altitude. Great for doubling back on a 
following foe. 
 
 
 
Loop Counter–Attack 
3 magic cards 
A defender being attacked directly from behind may 
turn the tables by Looping to land directly behind the 
attacker, and immediately attack instead. Doesn’t 
cost any movement points – a defending dragon 
doesn’t have any. Cannot be used against Tanis’ 
ranged attack. 
 
If the Basic Game rules for combat bonuses are in 
use then a dragon using this stunt gets a +2 combat 
bonus for the movement points that would have been 
spent getting to the attack. 
 
If the original attacker also has 3 magic cards then it 
could do a Loop Counter–Attack of its own. Resolve 
the counter–attack then allow the moving player to 
complete their turn. 
Power Climb 
points = levels climbed & 1 card 
Dragon may climb as many levels as desired while 
staying in the same hex. 
 
Defensive Power Climb 
Defender may Power Climb to escape an attacker. 
 
Power Dive 
points = levels dropped & 1 card 
Dragon may drop as many levels as desired while 
staying in the same hex. 
 
Defensive Power Dive 
Defender may Power Dive to escape an attacker. 
 
Roll 
2 movement points & 1 magic card 
For a quick change of direction, a dragon may move 
to a rear Flank hex, facing the opposite direction, at 
the same altitude. 
 
 
 
Defensive Roll 
Defender may Roll to escape an attacker. Only 
effective against Tanis’ ranged attack only if the 
defender is moved outside of Tanis’ 2-hex range. 
 
Wheel 
3 movement points 
Dragon may change its facing to any direction while 
staying in the same hex. Can be performed at any 
point in its move. 
 
Defensive Wheel 
1 magic card 
Defender may improve its facing versus an attacker. 
 
SCENARIOS 
 
Dragonwar 
Take the forbidden tower, courtyard, flying citadels, 
and DragonLance off the board. Object of the game 
is to eliminate all other dragons from the skies. Last 
player with any dragons left wins! 
 
Team Dragonwar 
Play a Dragonwar in teams. Ideal teams are the 
Good dragons (Bronze, Silver, and Gold) against the 
Evil dragons (Blue, Red, and Green). Allies can trade 
magic cards if their dragons are in adjacent hexes at 
the same altitude (or in the same hex at adjacent 
altitudes, if using Same Hex, Different Altitude rule). 
Team DragonLance 
As above, but play the regular game in teams, Good 
versus Evil. First team to have any player get the 
DragonLance back to that player’s own lair wins! 
 
No Cards 
Remove the magic cards, magic items, and the 
leader character cards from play. Alternately, keep 
some types of cards and get rid of others. This 
scenario puts a premium on movement and strategy. 
 
Fast Start 
All dragons start at altitude level 4 (or higher). 
 
 
DragonLance Components 
1 DragonLance 
24 Magic Cards 
150 Altitude Markers 
1 Tower 
6 Leader Character Cards (Advanced Game) 
2 Ten-sided dice 
6 Tower Outer Walls 
6 Magic Item Cards (Advanced Game) 
1 Game Board 
6 Gates (1 for each color) 
6 Flying Citadel Counters (Advanced Game) 
1 Basic Rulebook 
30 Dragons, 5 per horde  Good: Bronze/Silver/Gold; Evil: Red/Blue/Green 
1 Advanced Rulebook 
 
Transcribed by Chris Conboy (Liumas) in July, 2006 
v2014-07