RULEBOOK

A thousand years ago, a great catastrophe shook the world, nearly destroying human civilization. The few remaining texts from those times tell dreadful stories 
of large-scale ﬂoods, seas withered, and hills suddenly surging upward. All the sources mention ubiquitous darkness. The two moons obscured the sun and cast a deep 
shadow on the world.
But the world prevailed thanks to the Dragon Guardians, who repelled the darkness and restored balance to nature. Or at least this is what the legends say when they 
describe the omnipotent Dragons soaring the dark skies and ﬁghting off the waves of evil, whatever the evil was.
Humanity survived and eventually rebounded. Soon, some became interested in mystlings – creatures having the ability to affect elements – and discovered that with a bit 
of trust and respect a bond could be formed with them. This bond allowed them to cooperate with the creatures and use their abilities to beneﬁt both sides. Those people 
were named tamers.
Human ingenuity and the mystlings’ talent to harness elements began to bear fruit. Villages and cities soon sprouted and ﬂourished, and new, clever machines 
and installations began to crop up to ease the hardships of life.
Now, hundreds of years later, an unpopular group of scholars – astronomers – portend another twin eclipse. According to their calculations, both moons will line up 
with the sun, which will lead to another epochal catastrophe. But most people don’t look up at the sky when the ground is still full of wonders and mysteries. 
They ignore the worrying predictions and carry on with their daily routines.
Are the astronomers right? Surely not. Life is peaceful, and it should remain just like that.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
3 Component list
4 Introduction
• 4 Starting the game
• 4 Game order
5 Before the Scenario
• 5 Navigating the World Map
• 5 Choosing a Scenario
• 6 Choosing Mystlings
• 7 Performing the Deck Construction
8 Playing the scenario - Adventure
• 8 Adventure Journal
• 11 Tests
• 12 Exploring Location map
14 Playing the Scenario - Combat
• 15 Player’s / Enemy Mystling
• 16 Combat Setup
• 18 Combat rules
• 20 Example of Player’s turn
• 23 Example of Enemy’s turn
• 24 Other Combat rules
• 25 End of Combat
26 After the Scenario
• 26 Opening Boosters
• 26 Gaining Advancement cards
• 26 Saving the game
27 Additional Game modes
• 27 Hard modes
• 27 PvP mode
• 28 Roguelite mode
32 Advanced rules
• 32 Random Combat
• 32 Corruption and Major Corruption
• 32 Condition tokens
• 32 Summons
• 33 Combat Quest
• 33 Arena maps and cards
34 Index
35 Adventure tags
36 Combat tags

COMPONENT LIST
36 Stat card
Standard cards
33 Enemy ability cards
31 Taming cards
30 Portrait cards
30 Ability cards
19 Quest cards
180 Mystling speciﬁc
62B
63A
 Deal 4
Rush. Attack (Pierce 1). 
Deal 1 Burn in range 1.
in range 2 for each card 
in Enemy slots (including the current 
Enemy card). Rush.
Deal 3
63B
SPECIAL ABILITY: 3
Enemy deck: 3
, 3
, 3
66A
66B
Emberlings always lay two eggs. 
When the ﬁrst egg hatches, the mother 
leaves the nest, and from then on, it’s up 
to the older (yet still young) Emberling 
to care for its sibling. Fiery and energetic 
from the moment it takes its ﬁrst breath, 
it tends to the egg with surprising gentleness.
64B
65A
65B
STORY QUEST
If you have the “Ember” status: 
Your Young Emberling must spend 
enough time with you.
Otherwise:
Let your mystling taste Dragon Guardian’s 
power when you train it in the city.
67A
67B
DE-CB-M34/90
FLAME BURST
 to each opponent in range 2, +2
for every 4
 you have (do not discard 
20 Starting Action cards
35 Arena cards
14 Help cards
DE-CB-6/125
-CB-6/125
Awaken Realms 20
OFFENSIVE STANCE
(This passive effect applies 
as long as this card is 
on top of the discard pile.)
MOUNTAIN PINES
Setup: Place an Unstable Cone 
space except the one in the middle.
Rules: When you move to a space 
, discard it
 and deal 2
 to an opponent in range 2. 
When an Enemy moves to a space 
, discard that 
Unstable Cone 
 without any effect.
Tame – go to Script J102, win – go to Script J100, 
lose – go to Script J101.
FREEZING EGG
Setup: The ﬁrst player places 1 Crystal Egg 
in the 
 space not adjacent to any starting space.
Rules: When you start your turn within range 1 
of the Crystal Egg 
, gain Slow, Weak, 
and 3
. You can’t move or be placed 
in a space with the Crystal Egg 
FIRE ELEMENT
Each Bonus Action can be used 
COMBAT ORDER
PLAYER TURN
1. * You may use Bonus Actions.
2. Choose a slot. Gain
. Resolve the effect 
of the card. Then, discard that card.
3. * You may use Bonus Actions.
4. Slide cards. Reﬁll empty slots.
5. End your turn and resolve the Enemy turn.
* Each Bonus Action can only be used once per turn.
ENEMY TURN
1. Slide cards. Draw Enemy attack card to 1st slot.
2. Resolve the Enemy attack card in the 1st slot 
and ﬂip it face down.
3. If there is an Enemy attack card above 
the Special Ability token, resolve the Enemy 
Special Ability and discard all Enemy attack 
cards from the Enemy slots.
4. Enemy turn ends. Resolve the player turn.
Tokens
10 Silver
10 A/B Tokens
3 Silence
3 Weak
3 Slow
6 Burn “1”
3 Burn “3”
1 Taunt
16 Universal 
Tokens
35 Damage 
tokens
5 Fatigue Action cards
DE-CB-125/125
FATIGUE
30 Advancement A 
DE-CB-26/125
DEFENSIVE STANCE
, +2 
30 Advancement B 
FIRE BOLT
Deal 4
 and 2 Burn in any range in line.
Trigger.
120 Elemental Action cards 
(inside the foil Boosters 
in Special Edition)
OUTBURST
For every 2 cards in your discard pile, 
deal 1
 to an opponent in range 1, 
then to you. 
If the opponent has Burn, 
deal them an additional 5
10 Foil Elemental Action cards 
(inside the foil Boosters 
in Special Edition)
13 Mystery cards 
(Roguelite mode)
Discard 1 Silver.
WISHING WELL
Gain 2 Silver.
OR
Draw a random Enemy Attack card
and resolve:
Each player draws 3 cards from the 
Advancement deck and chooses one:
• Add one of them to your deck. 
• Discard them and remove 1 chosen card 
from your deck.
Gain 3 Silver.
Gain 5 Silver.
17 World Map cards
Unexplored 01
Calm Before the Storm
ore the Storm
ore the
ore th
Calm Befo
efo
efo
Explored 01
Z1
20 Equipment cards
BOTTLE OF FLAMES
Deal 7
 to an opponent 
Q
Enemy Attack 
cards
TAUNT
12 Enemy Attack 
cards
10 Artifact cards
(Roguelite mode)
GUIDING GRASS
After resolving 
a Mystery card: 
exhaust to draw an additional 
Mystery card and resolve it.
LO CKED
ARTIFACT
GUIDING GRASS
End the Combat with Boss 
without any 
73 Secret cards
ISLANDS
The standee on the map 
indicates the island you are on. 
You can only read Scripts 
from that island. Each island 
is indicated by a visible outline.
I V
Arena: card 1, map 4.
Enemy: cards 1, 2, and 3.
 Major Corruption: F.
Tamed: cards 1, 5, and Action cards (6).
Mystling Encyclopedia: 3 and 4.
30 Tier cards
23 Item cards
LUCKY COIN
Adventure: 
Gain 1 Silver.
Small cards
6 Corruption cards
+15
ROCKHEART
Major 
Corruption cards
J
+12
BRILLIANT
Others
Inventory
Inventory
2 Small Dividers
40 Dividers
Status Sheet
A Heavy Heart _______
Academy Secrets_____ 1
Ancient Technology __
Attunement _________
City in Ruin__________ 1
Consequences _______
Dark History _________ 1
Eager Tamer _________ 1
Eluding Tower________
Ember ______________
When you have any 4 parts of the “Empathy” status, 
you may read Script Z97.
Ending ______________ 1
Fae Camp ___________ 1
Fae Helper___________ 1
Forest Predators _____ 1
Future of Caerberg ___ 1
Helpful Ranger_______ 1
Ice__________________
Interference _________ 1
Knowledge Secured __
Liar _________________
Light in the Shadow __ 1
Local Hero___________ 1
Local Threat _________ 1
Lost Engineer________ 1
Merchant’s Favor_____ 1
Mother______________
Portal Knowledge ____ 1
Return to Caerberg___
Return to the Sea ____
Revelation___________
Salt Magnate ________ 1
Secret Exit___________
Secrets of the Crystal_ 1
Secrets of the Past ___
Someone’s Missing___ 1
Storyteller___________ 1
Tamers’ Morale ______ 1
Time Passes _________
Tracker______________ 1
Tower Secret_________ 1
Truth________________
Understanding__________ 1
9 10 11
When you have any 4 parts of the “Understanding” status, 
you may read Script Z96. 
When you have any 6 parts of the “Understanding” status, 
you may read Script Z98.
Weakened___________
Notes
Status Sheet
Adventure Journal
ADVENTURE JOURNAL
Location book
Arena book
Start Here! booklet
This booklet will guide you through the ﬁrst steps in the game. You 
don’t need to read the whole rulebook to start playing the game.
In this booklet you will ﬁnd:
• Unboxing Instruction (30-40 minutes) – page 1.
• First Journey (120-150 minutes) – page 3.
Start with the Unboxing Instruction below.
UNBOXING INSTRUCTION 
(30-40 minutes)
In the Dragon Eclipse box, you will ﬁnd quite a few packs of cards. 
Before you open them, follow the steps below to unbox the game. 
It should take you about 30-40 minutes to complete.
Empty all card trays.
2.
Unpack the dividers. Place the small ones aside for now.
Alukah
Party
Alukah
Party
3.
Open pack 1.1 All Mystling cards. Do not change the order 
of the deck (if the cards get disorganized, sort them in 
ascending order by the numbers in the upper left-hand 
corner).
Note: The separator cards tell you what is inside the pack, 
which side is Front and which is Back. Always place packs 
Front-side up on the table.
4.
Remove the separator cards from the front and the back 
(you can throw them out, they aren’t used in the game). 
Place the stack in front of you, so that the 1A card (Alukah) is 
on the top, facing up. 
Note: Each card has an ID in the upper left-hand corner. 
The front of a card has the letter “A” next to the ID. The 
back of a card is marked with the letter “B.”
DARKTAILEN
40A
ARTIOS
Max. 3 
Max. 1 
12A
ICELING
118A
12A
40A
0A
8A
ART
ART
ICEL N
ICELIN
EM ER
EMBE
EMBE
ICELING
00000
3040404040404
0000000
000000000000
00000
Max. 3 
Max. 1
ING
ach
Max
ach 
x
Max
34343434343434343434343434343434343
23232
3232323232
2323232323232323232323232323232323232323232
ax 3
43434
4040404040404040404040404040404
40404040
3040
3040404040404
0404040404040404
04040
0404
4040
04040
0404
DAR
DARK
AYAYAR
AYAR
ARO
AYAYARK
AYAYAR
ARK
YOU
TN
YOKU
ROU
KUTAN
UNG
M E
TITI
YOU
ELING
AY
OL
YA
OLO
TN
TIO
T O
OL
UTN
GOLOM
TANANG
NANANA
TANA
NANA
ANANG
ANANANANA
ANANAN
NA
000000000
1A
5.
Now, you will sort the cards behind the Mystling dividers. 
Each Mystling has a few cards connected to it, which are 
marked with the name of the Mystling in the upper right-
hand corner or in the middle top section of the card.
Find the Alukah divider, place it in the tray (we suggest using 
the  largest tray) and place all Alukah cards (5) behind it. 
Next, ﬁnd the  Young Alukah divider, place it in the tray 
(behind the Alukah cards and the divider you just placed) 
and place all Young Alukah cards (6) behind it.
Follow the same process above for each Mystling until 
the deck is empty. 
Note: All Pulpin and Pinequeak cards are placed behind 
the Firple divider. Frightened Windraiser (pack 1.3) is placed 
behind the Windraiser divider.
Then, open the 1.2 All Mystling cards and follow steps 4 and 
5 until the deck is empty.
Repeat the same process for pack 1.3 All Mystling cards until 
you reach card 225A (Coerced Gaiadon). Place it behind 
the Gaiadon divider. Place the next card (226A, Gentled 
Vogandr) behind the  Vogandr divider. Place the  Artios 
Taming card (227A) behind the Artios divider.
Now, you should see Arena card 1 (Mountain Pines) in front 
of you.
6.
Place the Party divider in the tray behind all the Mystling 
cards and dividers. 
Find the Arena cards divider and place all Arena cards 
(starting with Arena card 1) behind it in ascending order. 
All cards from this pack should now be in the tray.
8.
Open packs 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 – Mystling Action cards. Remove 
the separator cards from the front and the back of the decks. 
Create one stack: place cards from pack 2.3 at the bottom, 
then cards from pack 2.2, and the cards from pack 2.1 at the 
top.
9.
Place the card stack face up in front of you (so that the 
Crescent Midnight card is visible). This pack has Action cards 
assigned to Mystlings. Each Mystling has 6 Action cards 
marked with its name in the upper right-hand corner.
10. Place all 6 Alukah Action cards behind the Alukah divider 
(after all the cards that are already behind this divider). Then 
repeat this process for each Mystling until all cards from this 
pack are in the tray.
11. Open packs 3.1 and 3.2 – Other Action cards. Remove 
the separator cards from the front and the back of those 
decks. Create one stack: place cards from pack 3.2 at the 
bottom, and the cards from pack 3.1 at the top.
12. Place the card stack face up in front of you (so that the 
Fatigue card is visible). This pack has Fatigue cards, Starting 
cards (marked with the letter S), Advancement A (marked 
with the letter A), and Advancement B cards (marked with 
the letter B).
13. Take all Fatigue cards (5) and place them in the tray. These 
cards are not placed behind a divider.
14. Take all Starting cards (20) and place them aside for now. You 
will create Starting decks with them soon.
15. Find the Advancement deck divider and place it in the tray. 
Take all 30 Advancement A cards (marked with the letter A), 
shufﬂe them, and place them behind the Advancement deck
divider.
16. Find the Locked cards divider and place it in the tray. Take all 
30 Advancement B cards (marked with the letter B), shufﬂe 
them, and place them behind the Locked cards divider. 
17. Take the Starting cards you placed aside. You can see that 
there are two copies of each card. Divide them equally into 
two decks, 10 cards each, creating two Starting decks. Each 
deck should have one copy of the following cards: Desperate 
Attack, Focus, Guardian Stance, Hit and Run, Leap, Offensive 
Stance, Primal Shot, Pummel, Sprint, Synergy.
START HERE!
60 Elemental tokens 
(10 of each Element)
Mystling tray
10 Boosters envelopes
32 Standees 
+ 5 Standee base
Worldmap cardholder
20 Power markers
Special Edition 
components
10 pre-packed 
foil Boosters
Cardboard Standees are replaced by models, and Elemental tokens are replaced by acrylic markers in this version.
binder
8 cardholder pages
30 Miniatures
60 Elemental markers 
(10 of each Element)
1 Decision token
1 Time token
6 Essence 
tokens

Dragon Eclipse offers a guide to the ﬁrst Scenario. You don’t need 
to read this rulebook to start the game. Instead, open the “Start 
here!” booklet and follow instructions in the First Journey section. 
However, if you want to play the ﬁrst Scenario on your own, read 
the following sections of the rulebook:
Playing the Scenario – Adventure (page 8).
If you want to play your ﬁrst Combat on your own, also read 
the Playing the Scenario – Combat section (page 14).
Read the sections you choose, then come back to this page and 
follow the instructions below.
To start the ﬁrst Scenario, you need the Adventure Journal. It in-
structs you when and which components to use. Open the Adven-
ture Journal to page 2 and read the introduction and follow the in-
structions provided there. You can close the rulebook for now.
Each game session is divided into 3 stages: Before the Scenario, 
Playing the Scenario, and After the Scenario. Each of those stag-
es is divided into steps that must be followed. These steps are also 
listed in the Adventure Journal, so you don’t need to worry about 
remembering them.
Before the Scenario (15-20 minutes) – steps to prepare 
the Scenario:
Exploring the World Map.
Choosing a Scenario.
Reading the Introduction and hints.
Reconsidering or starting the Scenario.
Choosing Mystlings.
Performing the Deck Construction.
Important: In the ﬁrst Scenario, the “Before the Scenario” steps 
are skipped.
2. Playing the Scenario (1.5-2h) – the main part of the game:
Adventure.
Combat.
Each Scenario consists of  the  above parts, but their order and 
number may vary (e.g., one Scenario might start with Adventure 
followed by Combat and then end with another Adventure).
3. After the Scenario (10 minutes) – unlocking new compo-
nents and saving the game:
Gaining access to new Scenarios.
Opening a random Booster.
Unlocking new Action cards.
Saving the game.
All the steps above are listed in the ﬁnal Scenario Script so you 
don’t have to worry about remembering them.
You are a child of the Moongur caretakers, a talented pair of tam-
ers. They left early to serve the queen in the south, leaving you 
in the care of your aunt, Christine. Your talent for understanding 
mystlings manifested itself in your early years, and Christine decid-
ed that your best chance in life was to travel to Caerberg, the larg-
est city in the province, to learn the craft there.
Since then, you have grown to become one of the most talented 
tamers. Some say that you are unique because you are the only one 
able to maintain bonds with two mystlings at once. Your talent was 
noticed by the Duchess of Caerberg, and, despite your young age, 
she nominated you to be chief tamer when the previous one re-
tired. You are in charge of most Caerberg mystlings, and you train 
other tamers.
You cannot complain about your job or your life, but there is some-
thing missing. You yearn for the thrill of adventure, and the satis-
faction of discovery. You want to encounter more mystlings, and 
you cannot stop marveling at those fantastic creatures.
Another secret dream you cherish is to encounter Dragon Guard-
ians. You want to learn more about them. You wish to know if they 
are godlike beings, as the legends depict, or if they are “just” im-
mensely powerful mystlings. Maybe, someday, you will be able 
to embark on a journey and see the wide world.
INTRODUCTION
In Dragon Eclipse, you take the role of a Tamer befriending and 
training Mystlings. Dragon Eclipse is a cooperative scenario-based 
game for 1 or 2 players. There are also other game modes – Rogue-
lite and PvP – which are described in the Additional Game Modes 
section (page 27). The  following pages describe the  game from 
the  perspective of  the  campaign, but most rules are applicable 
to other modes as well.
Dragon Eclipse is played over a series of Scenarios. In a single game 
session, you aim to complete at least one Scenario. Each Scenario 
is a 2-2.5 hour, one-time playthrough and is divided into two inter-
connected parts: Adventure and Combat. During the  Adventure 
part, you explore the world, visit different Locations, make impact-
ful decisions, and progress the story. During the Combat part, you 
encounter other Mystlings, ﬁght against them, and try to  Tame 
them.
A  game session starts with choosing an  available Scenario from 
the  World Map. The  Scenario will continue until the  Adventure 
Journal informs you that it ends. While there is no way of losing 
a Scenario, your decisions, as well as failures and wins, inﬂuence 
the story and the outcome of the Campaign.
This rulebook is designed in  a  way that  presents the  order 
of the game. The rules are explained to you when you need to use 
them for the ﬁrst time. 
The rulebook is written for solo play, with 2-player game ex-
ceptions marked with a 
. If you are playing solo, you can skip 
these sections.
Starting Mystlings
At the beginning of the ﬁrst Scenario, you’ll choose a starting Mys-
tling. You will be able to switch to a different Mystling at the be-
ginning of the second Scenario if you’re unhappy with your ﬁrst 
choice. Below are the descriptions of the starting Mystlings to help 
you make your decision.
 Young Emberlings display a strong 
sense of  protection toward those 
they care about. They are skilled 
ﬁghters, utilizing both close-range 
attacks and long-range ﬁery tech-
niques. Their agility helps them stay 
safe, despite a lack of defensive abil-
ities.
118A
 Young Iceling
Young Icelings prefer to live in soli-
tude within the  ice-covered moun-
tains. Yet, some Icelings respond 
to the call to adventure and embark 
on thrilling journeys. During their 
travels, Icelings utilize their defen-
sive abilities, and attacks that  can 
drain their foes’ warmth to  heal 
themselves
GAME ORDER
STARTING YOUR GAME

1. Components Setup
Take out the following components and place them in your play area:
Item deck: shufﬂe this deck. Leave space for an Item 
discard pile.
Equipment deck: shufﬂe this deck.
Secret deck: do not change the order of this deck!
Adventure Journal.
Location book.
Arena book.
Save sheet.
Mystling tray.
All tokens.
Leave some space in front of you for the cards and tokens you will 
gain during the Scenario.
2. Taking Inventory
You will gather Items, Equipment, Secrets, Silver, and Essence 
that can carry over to subsequent Scenarios. After each Scenario, 
you save them behind the Inventory divider.
During this step, if you have any cards, Silver, and/or Essence be-
hind the Inventory divider, take them out and place them in front 
3. Navigating the World Map
The World Map represents places you may visit. The World Map uses 
two components: the World Map cardholder and Worldmap cards.
Worldmap cards show speciﬁc locations in the world that you can 
explore before or during Scenarios.
The World Map cardholder is a component that holds all available 
Worldmap cards.
As the  game progresses, you will slot more World Map cards into 
the  cardholder, expanding the  available options to  choose from. 
The Adventure Journal guides you when and where to slot those cards.
Note: You will gain access to the World Map at the end of the ﬁrst 
Scenario.
Navigation
At the start of this step, you are able to visit an Explored location.
To Navigate the World Map:
Choose one of the Explored Worldmap cards in the World 
Map cardholder that shows a “Z” Script.
2. Find the corresponding Script at the end of the Adventure 
Journal.
3. Read the Script and then choose one of the options list-
ed there. If you choose “Visit another place” option repeat 
the steps above.
4. Choosing a Scenario
After visiting Explored cards, you are instructed to start a Scenar-
io. To do so, choose one of the Unexplored Worldmap cards from 
the  World Map cardholder with a  Scenario name. Then, open 
the Adventure Journal and go to the Script printed on the chosen 
card. There, you ﬁnd a brief introduction and have a chance to re-
consider your choice.
World Map cardholder with slotted Worldmap cards (after Scenario 1).
BEFORE THE SCENARIO
The steps below prepare you for the adventure that awaits you. Before the Scenario, you visit familiar places, befriend wild Mystlings, gather information, choose your next destination, and prepare your Mys-
tlings by constructing Action decks for them.
The Unexplored side
These usually have a Script number and a Scenario name. They allow you to begin a Sce-
nario during the “Choosing a Scenario step.”
Unexplored 01
Calm Before the Storm
The Explored side
These usually have a “Z” Script visible. They allow you to revisit a location to shop (
), Tame 
Mystlings (
), or learn important story information.
Explored 01
Z1
Worldmap cards
Worldmap cards are slotted in a cardholder with one of the two sides visible:

5. Reading Introduction and Hints
The  starting Script has an  introduction that  provides you with 
a brief insight into your goal for the Scenario. The hints offer useful 
information on how to prepare for the Scenario.
6. Reconsidering or Starting the Scenario
After reading the introduction and hints, you have the opportunity 
to reconsider and go back to “Choosing a Scenario.”
Note: This reconsideration is not available in the ﬁrst and second 
Scenario.
g
• Reconsider – choose another available Scenario from the World Map.
• Start the Scenario – read on:
If you wish to reconsider, look at the World Map again and follow 
the instructions in the “Choosing a Scenario” step. Otherwise, con-
tinue reading the Adventure Journal. It leads you to the next step.
Choosing Mystlings
You are an  exceptional tamer and able to  maintain two strong 
bonds with mystlings at once! You are, however, not a  mythical 
hero – so other mystlings must stay behind in your camp. Other-
wise, you won’t be able to control them.
For  each Scenario, you choose 2 Mystlings from all you have 
Tamed so far.
At the start of each Scenario, choose 2 Mystlings from those be-
hind the Party divider. The chosen Mystlings must have different 
main elements (e.g., you may not select two 
 Mystlings).
Leave some space in front of you for the cards and tokens you will 
gain during the Scenario.
: Each player chooses one Mystling – Mystlings 
must have different main elements. Each player 
controls the chosen Mystling during Combats.
When you choose a  Mystling, take all the  cards corresponding 
to the chosen Mystling from behind the Party divider and place 
them in  front of  you. The  corresponding cards have the  name 
of the Mystling printed in the top-right hand corner and are made 
up of the following types:
1 Stat card.
1 Ability card.
6 Action cards.
1 Quest card (if available).
Quest cards
A Quest is a personal goal of a Mystling that, when fulﬁlled, perma-
nently improves the Mystling’s statistics or Special ability, turning 
them into Exalted versions. It may even make a Mystling grow into 
a new, more powerful form. However, not all Mystlings have Quest 
cards. Keep your Quest cards A-side up (you may look at the B-side 
of  the  cards). The  Adventure Journal or the  card itself tells you 
when to use the other side.
There are two types of Quests: Story Quests and Combat Quests. 
Combat Quests: explained in the Advanced Rules section, as you 
will encounter them later in the game. The game indicates when 
to read it.
Story Quests: resolved solely in the Adventure Journal. The Mys-
tling description (A-side) often points toward a location (a Scenario 
or a speciﬁc Worldmap card) to visit with your Mystling to fulﬁll its 
Quest.
Note: The  B-side of  the  Quest cards might contain different 
things. The Adventure Journal instructs you how to use them.
STORY QUEST
Let your Darktailen experience swamps 
that devoured light.
45A
Darktailen
DARKTAILEN
Exalted
45B
After fulﬁlling the Darktailen Story Quest, the Adventure Journal instructs 
the player to ﬂip it to the B-side. This way, the player may use the Exalted 
Darktailen stat card with improved statistics.
You may keep Quest cards of the Mystlings you chose for a Sce-
nario in front of you or in the Mystling tray. The game checks if you 
have a speciﬁc Mystling and then instructs you what to do when 
your Quest is fulﬁlled.

8. Performing the Deck Construction
Before each Scenario (except the ﬁrst one), you are able to build 
a deck for each of the two Mystlings chosen for a Scenario. Building 
decks is done using cards that you’ve unlocked up to that point. You 
gain Action cards at the start of the ﬁrst Scenario (Starting decks) 
and at the end of each Scenario (Advancement deck and Boosters).
You will perform your ﬁrst Deck Construction at the  beginning 
of the second Scenario.
Note: When you perform the  Deck Construction for  the  ﬁrst 
time, it is wise to include the cards you have just unlocked from 
the Advancement deck and a Booster pack, as they are probably 
better than the cards in the Starting deck. You may also exchange 
cards from the Starting decks between Mystlings (e.g., one Mys-
tling may have 2 copies of “Offensive Stance,” while the other 
may have 2 copies of “Defensive Stance”).
To perform the  Deck Construction, take all cards from behind 
the Unlocked cards divider and all Mystling cards of the Mystlings 
that you’ve chosen for a Scenario.
For  each Mystling, create a  deck separately following the  Deck 
Construction rules below.
Deck Construction rules
A deck may only consist of Action cards.
2. It must consist of 16 Action cards total (no more, no fewer).
3. It must have a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 6 Mys-
tling-speciﬁc Action cards matching the chosen Mystling.
4. A deck can only have 1 Legendary card.
5. A deck cannot contain cards that don’t match the Element 
of the chosen Mystling or its subtype element. However, 
you may always add Neutral cards.
If a Mystling has a subtype element (see the example below), you 
may add Action cards from that element to your deck, but no more 
than the number next to the small elemental icon next to its main 
element
BOLB
29A
Young Bolb is an Earth Mystling with a Water subtype (numeral 2 next 
to the Water icon). While creating a deck for Young Bolb, you may add any 
number of Earth Action cards and up to two Water Action cards.
After creating two 16-card decks (one for each chosen Mystling), 
place them along with the  Mystling cards (Stats and Abilities) 
After constructing decks for your Mystlings, begin playing the Sce-
nario. Continue reading the instructions in the Adventure Journal.
Action card types
DE-CB-69/125
DE-CB-69/125
VOLCANIC SURGE
Choose a 
 or 
 space. 
Deal 2 Burn to each other Mystling in range 1 
from that space.
DE-CB-M19/90
Chrysomallon
DE-CB-M19/90
LAVA TRAIL
Move. If there is no opponent in range 1, 
Move. 
Slot 3: Attack.
Neutral cards: cards without elemental icons. They may be 
used by all Mystlings. You can ﬁnd them in your Mystling 
Starting deck (marked with an S in the top right-hand cor-
ner) and the Advancement deck (marked with an A or B).
2. Elemental cards: cards with elemental icons in  the  top 
left-hand corner. They can be unlocked by opening Boost-
er packs. These cards may only be used by the Mystlings 
of the corresponding elements.
3. Mystling cards: cards assigned to  a  speciﬁc Mystling. 
The name of the Mystling is written in the top right-hand 
corner of the card. These cards are also Elemental cards 
(they have elemental icons). They can’t be used by other 
Mystlings.
Card rarity
An important aspect of Action cards used in Deck Construction is 
their rarity, which is used only during the Deck Construction. It is 
represented by an icon at the bottom of the card.
DE-CB-14/125
CB-14/125
Awaken Realms 2
Common: Neutral cards. There are two copies of each Neutral card 
in the game. These cards can be found in Starting decks (marked 
with an S), Advancement A (marked with an A), and Advancement 
B (marked with an B).
DE-CB-120/125
DE-CB-120/125
Rare: Elemental cards. There are two copies of  each card in 
the game. They can be found in Boosters.
Ultra Rare: Elemental cards. There is one copy of  each card in 
the game. They can be found in Boosters.
Legendary: foil Elemental cards. There is one copy of each card 
in the game. You are restricted to using only one Legendary card 
per deck during Deck Construction. They can be found in Boosters
DE-CB-M87/90
DE-CB-M87/90
Mystling-speciﬁc: cards with a Mystling’s name in the top right-
hand corner. They belong to speciﬁc Mystlings. They are obtained 
when Taming a Mystling.
Mystling tray
The Mystling tray consists of two separate pockets. A single pocket is intended for cards (Action, Stats, Abilities, and Quests) of a single Mystling. 
After Combat, damage tokens that the Mystling received are also placed in the tray. Occasionally, power markers obtained during the Adventure 
are also placed into it.
Components that may be placed in the Mystling tray (on the left). Mystlings prepared in the Mystling tray (on the right).

Adventure 
Adventures immerse you in  the  Adventure Journal, uncovering 
the narrative and thrilling adventures. You will be making choices 
presented by the Adventure Journal and Exploring Location maps.
Adventure Journal
The Adventure Journal is a book that contains the story as well as all 
the instructions that guide you through the game. The Adventure 
Journal consists of 12 Scenarios, each designated by a unique letter 
(A-L). Each Scenario contains Scripts, which are fragments of story 
text and instructions identiﬁed by their unique number and letter 
corresponding to the Scenario.
For example, all Scripts from the ﬁrst Scenario have the letter “A” 
before the Script number.
A2
You ﬁnally have time to look around. People are still scared, but there are only a few visible consequences of the tremor – a crumbling wall, 
a machine grinding unpleasantly, and ﬂowerpots toppled from windowsills. All the mystlings gradually calm down.
Script from the ﬁrst Scenario.
There are the  two common Adventure Journal instructions 
that guide you from one Script to another:
Go to Script X: open the Adventure Journal to the men-
tioned Script and start reading it.
Choose one: choose one of the options listed below and 
follow the  instructions. You cannot choose an  option 
if you don’t fulﬁll its requirement given in parenthesis. 
These options always start with bullet points to differen-
tiate them from other instructions.
If you only have 3 Silver, you may choose the “Buy something” option but you could not choose the “Buy some universal equipment” option as it requires 
spending 4 Silver.
• Buy something (spend 1 Silver) – draw 3 Items, gain 1 of them, and discard the rest. Then, choose again.
• Buy some universal equipment (spend 4 Silver) – draw 3 Equipment, gain 1 of them, and discard the rest. Then, choose again.
• Speak with Slade – go to Script C48.
• Ask about mystlings – Maybe someone has an idea on what to do with the wild mystlings? Go to Script C51.
• Leave – continue the Exploration.
Status sheet and tokens
The game tracks your progress and decisions in various ways, but 
you will also use the Status sheet often. Each part of a speciﬁc sta-
tus may only be gained once during the game. When a status is 
marked, you are considered to have that status. Statuses cannot 
be lost in any way.
Gain the “Y” part X status: take the Status sheet and mark 
the corresponding part of it (e.g., gain the “Empathy” part 
2 status).
When you are instructed to “Gain the ‘Empathy’ part 2 status,”
 you mark it as shown in the example above.
Sometimes statuses don’t have parts. When you gain them, mark 
the empty box next to their names.
The  game also tracks your decisions by placing various tokens 
in front of you or on Location maps. The Adventure Journal always 
explains what token to place and which side is face up. The side is 
important, so be sure to place tokens correctly.
You cannot spend or discard these tokens on your own. The game 
checks if you have a speciﬁc token in front of you.
Tokens placed in  front of  you are not saved between Scenarios.
The most common instruction regarding status tokens is:
Place token X in front of you: place the mentioned com-
ponent in front of you with the speciﬁed side face up. Then, 
ﬂavor text explains what it means.
– Place an 
 in front of you – You stash the pitcher shards in your bag.
The Adventure Journal often checks if you have a status, if there is 
a token in front of you, or if you have a certain Secret.
If you have the “Example” part 6 status / If you don’t 
have the “Example” part 6 status: check the Status sheet 
to see if you have marked the mentioned part of the status. 
If you match the condition, follow the instructions. If not, 
check if there is another condition. There are often more 
than one condition – always check them from top to bot-
tom. If you meet several conditions from the list, resolve 
only the topmost one.
If token X is in front of you: check if you have the men-
tioned component and follow the instructions if you do. 
If there is more than one condition, check them in order 
from top to bottom.
Place token A in slot III.
If you have the “Light in the Shadow” part 6 status, go to Script J3.
If you have the “Eager Tamer” part 5 status, go to Script J1.
Otherwise, you brieﬂy recap your adventures and explain what the purpose of your visit is – go to Script J4.
Let’s assume that the player has already marked the “Light in the Shadow” 
part 6 status and the “Eager Tamer” part 5 status. In the example above, 
they go to Script J3, since they meet the condition in the ﬁrst line. They 
cannot go to Script J1 even though they also meet the condition from 
the second line, since the instructions are resolved from top to bottom.
PLAYING THE SCENARIO – ADVENTURE
The main stage of the game in which you explore Location maps, make various story choices, and ﬁght and Tame Mystlings is divided into two interconnected parts that might be resolved in different orders: 
Adventure.
Combat.
The  Adventure Journal guides you through the  whole Scenario and tells you when Adventure or Combat starts. The  Scenario ends when you reach the  sentence “Congratulations! 
You’ve reached the end of the Scenario” in the Adventure Journal. You will then have the option to either continue or save the game.
: Decision token 
Players make choices mutually. However, if they cannot agree, they use the Decision token. All other Adventure rules remain the same as in the solo game. All Secrets, Silver, Essence, statuses, 
Items, and Equipment belong to both players.
Decision token rules: At the beginning of a game session, give the Decision token to a random player. When players encounter a situation during the game when they cannot agree on something, 
the player with the Decision token makes the decision and then passes the token to the other player. Try to use the Decision token sparingly.
For example, players may want to use the Decision token when you must choose a Script on the Location map or decide which Mystling receives 
 from a Script.

Damage 
While most of the time you receive damage during Combat, your de-
cisions or Tests may also expose your Mystling to threats that could 
result in damage as well. The concept of damage is explained in more 
detail in the Combat section of the rulebook (page 9).
 is not a limited component. In rare cases when you do 
not have enough 
, substitute it with other components.
 outside of  the  Combat, take 
that amount of 
 and place it in the Mystling tray, as-
signing it to Mystlings (you may split it between Mystlings 
as you see ﬁt). 
Note: During the Adventure part of the game, you can-
not assign 
 to a Mystling if it would equal or exceed 
 statistic (a Mystling cannot have fewer than 1
remaining during the Adventure). In such cases, you must 
assign the 
 to the other Mystling. If both of your Mys-
tlings are in this situation, ignore the excess 
Heal
Heal means discarding 
. It is a common reward during the Ad-
venture and can be found in several other places in the game.
When you are instructed to Heal X outside of Combat, dis-
card that many 
 from the chosen Mystlings. You may 
split the Heal value between both Mystlings as you see ﬁt.
For example, when you are instructed to Heal 6, you may 
discard 2
 from one of your Mystlings and 4
the other.
When you are instructed to Heal X and your Mystlings have 
fewer than the Heal value, Heal as much as you can and 
ignore the rest.
Fatigue
Fatigue cards are negative Action cards shufﬂed into Action decks. 
They represent the exhaustion of your Mystling. You receive Fa-
tigue cards during Combat as a  result of  reshufﬂing the  Enemy 
deck and also in the Adventure Journal as a result of your choices 
or Tests.
Fatigue cards are a limited component and Mystlings can 
have a maximum of 5 cards in total.
When you gain a Fatigue, place it in the Mystling tray as 
a part of the chosen Mystling’s Action deck. When you gain 
more than one Fatigue, you may divide them between your 
Mystlings as you see ﬁt. 
When there are no more Fatigue cards available 
(max. 5), and you are instructed to gain another Fatigue, 
gain 5
 instead.
When you remove a  Fatigue, place it back in  the 
Fatigue deck. 
Fatigue is not saved between Scenarios.
Secrets
Secrets are important cards directly tied to the story. There are four 
types of Secrets: overlays, events, rules, and objects. 
When you gain a card that is a fragment of a map, an over-
lay, place it on the Location map so that it matches the il-
lustration. 
When you gain an event, you will be instructed to place it 
face down in the Event slot.
When you gain a rules card, place it next to the Mystling 
tray – its rules apply as long as the Secret is there. 
When you gain an object, place it next to your Items and 
Equipment – it works in the same way, but there is no limit 
to how many of them you can have. Some objects don’t 
have any effects but are important to the story.
When you discard a Secret, place it back in the Secret deck. 
Objects are saved between Scenarios.
Place this card on the map.
HEALING EXTRACT
Anytime:
. Heal 4.
ISLANDS
The standee on the map 
indicates the island you are on. 
You can only read Scripts 
from that island. Each island 
is indicated by a visible outline.
An hour has passed.
If token A is in slot II or V, 
go to Script A76. 
Otherwise, go to Script A75.
Example of different Secrets: rules card (01), event (13), 
overlay (14) and object (02).
represents your Mystling’s inner energy. It is used in Combat 
to  resolve Bonus Actions and to  pay for  extra effects on Action 
cards. However, 
 can be gathered during Adventure to prepare 
for the next Combat.
 is a limited component. Each Mystling can have 
a  maximum of  10
at any moment (a  Mystling cannot 
 if it already has 10).
 outside of Combat, take that amount 
of 
 and assign it to the chosen Mystlings (you may split 
it between Mystlings). Place 
Silver
Silver is the currency in the world of Dragon Eclipse. You acquire it 
as a reward for helping people, selling Items, or exploring. It is used 
during the Adventure part of the game. You may spend it to unlock 
certain story options and purchase Equipment or Items.
Silver is a limited component (max. 10).
: Silver is shared between players.
When you gain Silver, place it near the Mystling tray. 
When you discard Silver, you must return it to the Silver 
pool. If you don’t have the required number of Silver, dis-
card as much as you can and ignore the rest.
When you spend Silver, you must have that number of Sil-
ver. If  the  instructions tell you to  “Spend 3 Silver to  go 
to Script X” and you have only 2 Silver, you cannot choose 
this option.
Silver is saved between Scenarios.
Essence 
Essence is the  residual energy of  the  Dragon Guardians, which 
may be used to gain the attention and trust of Mystlings. It can be 
acquired while interacting with various arcane locations and Mys-
tlings. It is used in the Adventure part of the game. Essence allows 
you to Tame Mystlings outside of Combat during the “Navigating 
the World Map” step.
Note: You may use and acquire Essence starting from Scenario 2.
Essence is a limited component (max. 6).
: Essence is shared between players.
When you gain Essence, place it near the Mystling tray. 
When you spend Essence, return it to the Essence pool. 
Essence is saved between Scenarios.
Rewards and Penalties
During the  Adventure, you receive many different rewards (like 
Items or Silver) and penalties (like damage 
 or Fatigue). Below is 
a list of various effects you may encounter.

Equipment
Equipment cards are powerful cards that offer unique one-time use 
abilities and/or permanent symbols that help you during the game 
(upper right-hand corner).
BOTTLE OF FLAMES
Deal 7
 to an opponent 
Equipment cards have:
Symbols: positive passive effects checked in  the  Adven-
ture Journal.
2. Name
3. Timing of when you can use it:
Test: you may use it anytime during a Test.
Anytime: you may use it anytime during a Scenario.
Combat: you may use it during your turn in Combat.
4. Ability: describes the effect upon use.
5. Roguelite mark: This mark is only important in the Rogue-
lite mode. Ignore it during the Campaign.
Both Equipment and Items may have a 
 icon, which indicates 
that you must discard a card to resolve its effect.
Symbols
Symbols provide advantages during Tests and in  the  Adventure. 
Having these symbols may make locked choices available.
There are 4 Equipment symbols:
Light Source: often useful in Scenarios where you ex-
plore dark places.
Food: commonly used when you are handling wild 
Mystlings outside of Combat.
Gear: represents climbing equipment useful when 
traversing dangerous terrain.
Tools: a  wide range of  different tools that  may be 
handy while tinkering with machines.
Equipment rules
Equipment cards are limited to 2 at any time. When you 
gain an Equipment, and you already have 2, you may use 
any of the 3 Equipment abilities if the timing allows. If you 
don’t, immediately discard one of the 3 Equipment to have 
2 remaining.
: Equipment is shared between the players.
Equipment is not assigned to Mystlings.
You are considered to have Equipment symbols as long as 
you have Equipment with them.
When you gain Equipment, draw a random card from the top 
of the Equipment deck and place it near the Mystling tray.
When you discard or spend Equipment, place it on the bot-
tom of the Equipment deck.
Equipment is saved between Scenarios.
Items
Items cards offer a  variety of  minor effects. They are similar 
to Equipment in terms of usage, but are more common and less 
powerful. Items are used in two different ways: as small useful tools 
that can slightly aid you in Tests and Combats and to resolve Tests. 
The use of Items for Tests will be described later in this rulebook.
RED BERRIES
During the next Attack, + 1 
Item card have:
Test Value: a number used when resolving Tests.
2. Misfortune 
: a negative symbol used during Tests.
3. Name
4. Timing of when you can use it:
Test: you may use it anytime during a Test.
Anytime: you may use it anytime during a Scenario.
Combat : you may use it during your turn in Com-
bat.
5. Effect: describes the effect upon use.
6. Roguelite mark: This mark is only important in the Rogue-
lite mode. Ignore it during the Campaign.
Item rules
Items are limited to 3 at any time. When you gain an Item, 
and you already have 3, you may use any of the 4 Items 
if the timing allows. If you don’t, immediately discard one 
of the 4 Items so that you have 3 remaining.
Items are not assigned to any Mystling.
When you gain an Item, draw a random card from the top 
of the Item deck and place it near the Mystling tray.
When you discard an Item, place it on the Item discard pile.
Items are saved between Scenarios.
: Items are shared between the players.

Tests
A Test is a quick, push-your-luck part of the game that uses Test values 
of Item cards from the Item deck (not the cards you have gained). Tests 
are used to determine the results of some of the character’s actions.
For example, you want to sneak into a guarded castle. Depending on 
the Test results, you may be spotted, or enter quietly.
Every Test has a Test Table (see Test Example). You may read the con-
tent of a Test Table before and during the Test resolution.
During the Adventure, you will often ﬁnd instructions to “Perform 
the Test.” The Test outcomes may be very different, but most often, 
they progress the story or give you a reward. When something goes 
wrong during a Test, it may result in penalties.
You use the Item deck during Tests. The only important information 
on the Item cards during a Test is their Test Value shown in the top 
left-hand corner and a 
 icon that can be found on several cards.
RED BERRIES
During the next Attack, + 1 
The above Item has a Test Value of 1 and one 
To perform a Test, look at a provided Test Table. It tells you which re-
sults you might want to achieve (as a rule of thumb, you may assume 
that green outcomes are the good ones, gray are neutral, and you 
want to avoid the red ones). Above the Test Table are also modiﬁers 
that may affect the Test.
Spend 
: Immediately resolve a chosen Test outcome.
You must spend an Equipment card with a 
symbol to use this bonus 
during the Test. However, using this bonus is optional.
, once per Test: You may add or subtract 1.
To use this bonus, you must have an Equipment card 
with a 
e thi
symbol. You don’t discard the card to use it.
Most of the time, there will be negative consequences for drawing 
cards with 
. During the Test, you may use your Items with “Test” 
timing to modify your result.
Test order
Reveal an Item card and place it in front of you. Do not resolve its effect!
2. Choose: end the Test or go back to step 1.
When the Value of all revealed Item cards reaches the last range in the Test table, and you don’t have any means to modify the result, immedi-
ately end the Test and resolve its outcome as described below.
When you end the Test:
Add up the Values of all Items revealed during this Test. 
2. Apply all the “At the end of a Test’’ modiﬁers.
3. Place all Item cards used in this Test on top of the discard pile and resolve the outcome matching the Value of the revealed cards.
Whenever the Item deck becomes empty, take all cards in the Item discard pile, shufﬂe them, and create a new Item deck.
Test Example
At the end of the Test: If you have at least 2 
5 or less
You eventually ﬁnd a glass bottle with a bright substance. 
It must belong to Olin.
. Gain Secret 02. Go to Script A79.
You ﬁnd a glass bottle with a bright substance. 
It must belong to Olin.
Gain Secret 02. Go to Script A79.
You ﬁnd a glass bottle with a bright substance. It must belong 
to Olin. Something else glints among the debris.
Gain 1 Item. Gain Secret 02. Go to Script A79.
8 or more
Everything here is shattered and useless.
. Continue the Exploration.
You have 1 Item that might be useful: Glazed Nuts. You are able to use its effect during the Test (but only its effect, not its Value).
You start the Test. You draw the ﬁrst card (Rope), and it has a Value of 2. 
2. You decide to draw again, and the new Item, Ripe Nuts, has a Value of 3. 
3. You decide to draw another card. It is a Bottle of Magic with a Value of 3 and a 
. Now, the total Value is 8, which would result in a neg-
ative outcome – it is not something you wanted. 
4. You decide to use the effect of the Glazed Nuts: discard a card you just drew (Bottle of Magic). 
5. You decide to draw again. The new Item, A Leather Pouch, has a Value of 1 and a 
. The total Value of cards is 6 – not the best out-
come, but you decide not to push your luck and you end the Test. 
6. You remember to check the modiﬁer at the end of the Test – it would apply if you had at least 2 
. You fortunately have only 1 
so you don’t
(the Time track and Time token are explained further in the rulebook). 
You place all Item cards used in this Test on top of the discard pile and resolve the outcome matching your result: you gain Secret 02 
and go to Script A79.

Exploring Location map
When playing a Scenario, you will be presented with an opportunity to explore different Location maps. The number of Explorations during 
a Scenario may differ, but each Scenario has at least one Exploration.
Exploration setup
Each map Exploration starts with a short setup. The Adventure Journal indicates which Location map to open.
Open Map X – take the Location map book and open it so that only map X is visible. Then, place the Location map book into your play area. 
Location maps show you the area you are currently exploring. Each Location map consists of:
Location map number: used during Exploration setup to ﬁnd the correct map.
2. Script numbers: possible places for you to visit.
3. Slots: used to place A/B tokens in them and track your decisions/changes during the Scenario.
4. Time track: used to track the passage of time.
5. Event slot: space for the Event (Secret card) connected to the Time track.
After opening a map, the Adventure Journal instructs you to set up an Event using the following instructions:
Place Secret X face down in the Event slot. Set 
 to Y: ﬁnd the mentioned Secret in the Secret deck. Place it face down (without looking at it) 
in the Event slot. Then, take the Time token and place it showing the correct side (red or blue) in a slot with the number Y.
Secret 05 is placed in the Event slot, and 
 is set to 2.
Then, the Adventure Journal will tell you to “Begin the Exploration.” To do so, close the Adventure Journal and follow all Exploration rules below. 
Exploration rules
There is no speciﬁc round or turn structure during Exploration. You 
are free to take actions unless the Adventure Journal instructs oth-
erwise. However, your time in each Exploration is limited. The Time 
track is used to track the time you have left.
During Exploration there is only one type of Action available – Read 
a Script.
Read a Script
Scripts are indicated by a letter and a number. You may go to and 
read any script visible on the map. Usually, but not always, Scripts 
are inside booklet icons. Others might be hidden in the illustration.
Script in a booklet icon.
Once you start reading a Script, you must follow all instructions writ-
ten there. When the Script instructs you to “Continue the Explora-
tion,” close the Adventure Journal, and return to the Location map.
Reading Scripts is “free,” meaning it does not consume any time or 
other resources, and the Adventure Journal often gives you the op-
tion to leave a Script and choose a different one. However, some op-
tions within the Scripts may require you to spend time (
). In rare 
cases (e.g., when your task is to track someone), checking the wrong 
Scripts may force you to spend time.
• Search the rubble – gain 1 Item. 
. Continue the Exploration.
• Leave – continue the Exploration.
If you choose the “Search the rubble” option, you gain an Item, but you also 
spend time. After that, you are instructed to continue the Exploration.

Time
During Exploration, you may be instructed to  spend time
This will, in  turn, reveal the  Event card, altering the  situation 
on the map or even bringing the Exploration to an end.
When you are instructed to
If the Time token is not in the last space, move it one slot 
down (e.g., from 4 to 3).
If  the  Time token is already in  the  last space (with 
the number 1), place it on the Event card.
If the Time token is on the Event card, ignore that time 
progression.
Whenever the  Adventure Journal instructs you to  “Continue 
the Exploration” and the Time token is already on the Event card – 
discard the Time token and ﬂip and resolve the Event card. Events 
often instruct you to go to a speciﬁc Script, progressing the story 
or bearing the consequences.
The  instructions in  the  Script may often instruct you to  discard 
the Secret you just drew. Whenever Secrets are discarded, they are 
always placed back in the Secrets deck.
You are instructed to
in the Adventure Journal. You move the 
from space 1 to the Secret card (Event) and continue reading the
 Adventure Journal until it tells you to Continue the Exploration. Then, you 
discard the
, ﬂip the Secret, and follow the instructions written there.
The story provides hints about what might occur when the Event 
card is triggered. Event cards may alter the situation on a Location 
map and may even bring an Exploration to an end. Additionally, 
the side of the Time token also serves as a hint about whether or 
not you should hurry.
– the current Event ends the Exploration. 
– current Event changes something (the story might 
hint at what might happen) but does not end the Ex-
ploration.
Slots
Often, you will ﬁnd slots printed on the Location maps. A slot al-
ways consists of a circular space for a token (A or B) and a Roman 
numeral. Slots might be situated next to a speciﬁc Script (hinting 
that the token placed there changes something in this location) or 
next to the Time track (this placement is used for global or secret 
changes).
The instructions in the Adventure Journal may tell you to:
Place token X in slot Y: place the mentioned token (A or B) 
in the correct slot on the Location map. 
Having a token in a slot changes the interactions in the Adventure 
Journal. The Adventure Journal may check if you have a token and 
redirect you accordingly.
If  token X is in  slot Y: check if  the  mentioned token is 
in the slot. If it is, follow the instructions there. If there is 
more than one such sentence, check them in order from 
top to bottom.
Slot III in the example above is situated next to the A35 and the library 
building. Having a token in this slot may change interactions in Script A35.
Lock/Unlock Script
Some of your decisions may unlock new options (e.g., you found 
a passage and are now able to reach the other side of the river) or 
lock the available ones (e.g., you offended a merchant, and they are 
no longer willing to talk to you).
Lock Script X: take a  Universal token and place it on 
the mentioned Script so that the token covers the Script. 
Such Scripts are considered Locked. You cannot choose 
Locked Scripts during Exploration.
Unlock Script X: discard the Universal token from a Script. 
It becomes available again.
Resolving Combat in Exploration
During Exploration, you may also be instructed to start a Combat – 
this doesn’t end the Exploration (unless the Adventure Journal tells 
you to end the Exploration beforehand). Instead, when this happens, 
set aside the Location map with all tokens and Secrets on it (including 
the Event) and resolve the Combat.
End of Exploration
The  Exploration ends when you encounter the  “end the  Explo-
ration” instruction. You may ﬁnd it on an  Event card, as a  part 
of the story in the Adventure Journal, and sometimes, you’ll have 
a choice to end the Exploration on your own. When you end the Ex-
ploration, follow the steps below:
Discard all Secrets from the Location map – place them 
back into the Secret deck. 
Discard the Event – place it back into the Secret deck. 
Discard all tokens from the map.
Do not discard tokens and Secrets placed in front of you!
Close the Location map book. 
When the Exploration ends, the Adventure Journal instructs you 
what to do next.

Combat
Combat in Dragon Eclipse is a turn-based confrontation that takes place in an Arena between your Mystling and an Enemy. Throughout a sin-
gle Scenario, you may participate in multiple Combats. The Adventure Journal always provides you with information on when a Combat begins 
and which components to use.
Combat may occur during the “Exploring Location maps.” When this happens, set aside the Location map with all tokens and Secrets on it (do 
not discard them) and resolve the Combat. This doesn’t end the Exploration.
Combat Components
The description of the most important components used in Combat are below:
Arena maps.
Arena cards.
Player’s Mystling: Stat and Ability cards.
Enemy Mystling: Stat and Enemy Ability cards.
Arena maps
Arena maps can be found in the Arena book. Each Combat, in which you ﬁght and try to Tame an Enemy, is played on an Arena map. While 
there are a few Arena maps, each Arena has spaces to which you and your Enemy can move. Some of the Arena spaces are marked with icons: 
, I, and II (and III for 2 players) that are used during Combat Setup and may be checked by some Enemy Attack or Action card 
effects. These spaces do not have an effect on their own.
Each Arena has slots for the following components:
Enemy sheet: place for two (or more) cards that create an Enemy sheet. 
2. Enemy deck: place for Enemy Attack cards, which you prepare before each Combat. To the right of that space, are ﬁve spaces for re-
solved Enemy cards.
3. Enemy discard pile: place for discarded Enemy Attack cards.
4. Arena card: place for an Arena card. Each Combat has its own Arena card, and the Adventure Journal indicates which one to prepare.
5. Your deck: place for your deck.
6. Action slots: four slots for your available Action cards.
Your discard pile: place for your discarded Action cards.
: Always use the Arena designated for 2 players (marked with 
). That Arena has a slightly different layout and doesn’t have a space 
for the Enemy sheet.
Arena cards
You use an Arena card in each Combat. Arena cards modify the Are-
na maps by placing Terrain and they instruct you which Script to read 
when Combat ends.
Tame – go to Script B83, win – go to Script B81, 
lose – go to Script B82.
SHORE
Setup: Place a Berry 
 space.
Rules: When you move to or are placed 
in a space with a Berry 
, discard it and gain 1
When an Enemy moves to or is placed in a space 
with a Berry 
, discard it without any effect.
An Arena card.
Arena cards consist of several elements:
ID: a number speciﬁc to each Arena card.
2. Name 
3. Setup, Rules, and Bonus Actions: some Arena cards may 
have additional Setup, Rules, or even Bonus Actions available 
for you to use. Make sure to read them before starting Com-
bat and apply Setup rules if there are any.
4. End of Combat: Scripts to read upon ending Combat. If you 
are involved in  a  Random Combat with an  Enemy, follow 
the “End of Random Combat” instructions. Otherwise, fol-
low the “End of Combat” instructions.
Terrain 
 / /
Arena cards often instruct you to place Terrain on the Arena map. 
They block spaces or have other effects connected to the environ-
ment you are ﬁghting in. Use the Universal tokens shown on the Are-
na card. The use of 
ng in.
f 
 suggests that the Terrain effect is beneﬁcial 
to you, while the 
 indicates the opposite. Terrain rules are described 
in the “Rules” section of an Arena card.
Advanced Terrain rules are described on page 33 (Arena maps and cards).
PLAYING THE SCENARIO – COMBAT

To better understand what you will be doing during Combat, it is im-
portant to get a look at your Mystling. Your Mystling is represented 
by a standee which you move around the Arena and a Mystling sheet 
that describes its abilities and statistics.
You use your Mystling’s Special Ability and Action cards to  deal 
Damage 
 to  your Enemy. Damage is not discarded from your 
Mystlings after Combat (it is, however, discarded at the end of each 
Scenario).
Note: Make sure to use the Stat card without the PvP layout since 
the PvP version has different statistics used only in the PvP mode.
Both the  Ability card (left) and Stat card (right) create a  Mystling 
sheet, as shown below:
A Mystling sheet consists of several parts:
Mystling name.
2. Mystling Element: determines the Element of your Mystling. 
The Adventure Journal and some opponent attacks check it. It 
also deﬁnes what type of Action cards you can use when Per-
forming Deck Construction
66A
Some Mystlings may have subtype elements. Mystlings with 
subtype elements are treated as if they had those elements 
in addition to their main type for the purpose of Adventure 
Journal, Actions cards, and Enemy Attack effect checks.
However, you cannot use Bonus Actions related to subtype ele-
ments, and you may choose a Mystling for a Scenario even if its 
subtype matches the main element of your other Mystling.
BOLB
29A
The Young Bolb is considered to have both Earth
and Water Elements.
3. Mystling Statistics: Willpower, Defense, Health, Attack, 
and Swiftness values. Some effects may temporarily modi-
fy the statistics of your Mystling either by increasing or de-
creasing them, although no statistic can be reduced below 0.
 Willpower: indicates how much 
 is mitigated during 
the Enemy “Deal 
” effects.
 Defense: indicates how much 
is mitigated during 
the Enemy Attack.
 Health: indicates how much 
a Mystling can gain be-
fore losing the Combat.
 Strength: indicates how much 
a Mystling deals dur-
ing Attack.
 Swiftness: indicates how many spaces a Mystling can be 
moved during Move. 
4. Mystling Special Ability: a  unique action of  a  Mystling 
that can be used following the Bonus Action rules.
5. Elemental token limits: some Mystlings use Elemental to-
kens and have special rules regarding them. If your Mystling 
uses Elemental tokens, their sheet will contain information 
about the token limit – you can never use more Elemental 
tokens than described by the sheet. Stat cards are used by 
both players and Enemies, so the token limit icon is usually 
depicted as half-white and half-black, and the limit applies 
for both players and Enemies. If the icon is only white or only 
black, it applies only to players or Enemies respectively.
A Mystling stat card with the Elemental token limit.
Your Enemy during Combat is represented by a standee in the Arena 
and an Enemy sheet that describes its abilities and statistics.
An Ability card (sometimes more than one) and a Stat card create 
an Enemy sheet.
Note: Both Players and Enemies use Stat cards.
Some Enemies may have more than one Enemy Ability card. In such 
cases, place them next to each other. Some Enemies may also use 
cards with Summons. Summons are described in the Advanced Rules 
section of this rulebook (page 15).
108A
Golomo
Rush. Attack. Place 1 Quake 
in range 1.
Place 1 Quake 
 in range 2. 
Attack. Rush.
Each opponent gains 3
 for each 
Quake 
 within range 2 of that opponent.
PASSIVE
Golomo has +1 
 for each Quake 
within range 1 of it.
Attack. Rush +2 
. Attack.
Attack.
These cards together create an Enemy sheet. It consists of several 
parts:
Enemy name.
2. Element.
3. Enemy token limit: indicates how many Elemental tokens 
the Mystling can place/gain.
4. Enemy Statistics: works in the same way as the Player’s Mys-
tling statistics.
5. Enemy Passive: permanent ability of  an  Enemy that  lasts 
throughout the Combat.
6. Enemy effects: tells you what an Enemy can do during their 
activation. The Enemy resolves its action based on the cur-
rent Enemy Attack card.
Enemy Special Ability: an  Enemy Special Ability resolved 
every few turns, after reaching the Special Ability token.
108B
SPECIAL ABILITY: 3
Enemy deck: 2
Golomo
8. Setup Special Ability: indicates in  which Enemy slot you 
must place the Special Ability token.
9. Setup Enemy deck: informs you which Enemy Attack cards 
you must use to create the Enemy deck at the start of Com-
bat.
Player’s Mystling
Enemy Mystling

Combat setup
The Adventure Journal tells you which components to use for the Arena and your Enemy. In Random Combats, a Tier card tells you which components to use. Random Combats are described in the Advanced Rules 
section (page 32).
Solo Combat Setup.
Two Player Combat Setup.

p
– Setup Combat:
Arena: card 8, map 3.
Enemy Darktailen: cards 40, 41, and 42.
 Major Corruption: C.
Setup instructions in the Adventure Journal.
To setup a Combat, follow the steps below:
Prepare the Arena: open the Arena book to the Arena map 
indicated by the Adventure Journal.
: Use the  Arena designated for  2 players 
(marked with
2. Setup the  Arena card: take the  Arena card indicated by 
the Adventure Journal out from behind the Arena divider. 
If the Arena card has “Setup” rules, resolve them now.
3. Prepare tokens and markers: place all damage tokens 
Elemental tokens, Power markers 
, and condition tokens 
near the Arena so you can easily reach them.
4. Prepare the Enemy
Assemble the  corresponding Enemy standee and 
place it in space I in the Arena.
Take all Enemy Ability, Stat, and Taming cards listed 
by the Adventure Journal from behind a divider with 
an Enemy name (e.g., the Golomo divider).
Note: You will not always use a Taming card. 
Flip the Enemy Ability card to its B-side, then set up 
the Enemy for Combat (steps d-f) using the infor-
mation there.
Place a 
 on a  space of  the  Enemy track, 
indicated by the number on the Enemy Ability card 
next to “Special ability”.
Create an  Enemy deck using Enemy Attack cards 
listed on the  B-side of  the  Enemy Ability card. 
Shufﬂe these Enemy Attack cards and place them face 
up in the Enemy deck space (see the example below).
: Use the  Enemy deck marked with 
This deck has a slightly different layout containing 
information about the  target. 2-player versions 
of Attack cards with the same symbol are not iden-
tical – when you set up an Enemy Attack deck using 
multiple cards with the same symbol, choose them 
randomly.
For example, when you set up a deck with 2 
cards, take all 4 cards with 
 and randomly 
choose 2 of them. Try not to look at their fronts 
while preparing the rest of the Enemy deck.
The Golomo Enemy has its Special Ability in the third slot. 
The Enemy deck consists of 2
, and 2
 shufﬂed together.
If the Enemy has “Additional setup” instructions, re-
solve them now.
g.
Flip the Enemy Ability card to the A-side and place 
both the  Enemy stat card and Enemy Ability card 
in the Enemy sheet slot creating the Enemy sheet. 
Some Enemies may have an additional card for its 
Special Ability or its Summons. Place such cards 
near the Enemy sheet.
near the Enemy sheet.
: Place these cards next to  the  Arena, since 
there is no Enemy sheet slot.
h.
If  the  Enemy has a  Taming card, place it next 
to the Arena so that you can easily read it.
: Find and attach a Major Corruption card listed in the Ad-
venture Journal to the opponent. Major Corruptions increase 
Enemy stats.
5. Prepare your Mystling:
Choose one of the Mystlings you chose for the Sce-
nario. Place the chosen Mystling’s standee in start-
ing space II.
g p
: One player places the  Mystling they chose 
at the  start of  the  Scenario in  starting space II. 
The other player takes the remaining chosen Mys-
tling and places it in starting space III. Players should 
sit on the opposing sides of the Arena. Each player 
resolves the steps below (b-g) for their Mystling.
Take the chosen Mystling’s Stat card and Ability card 
from the  Mystling tray. Then, connect them face 
up in order to create a Mystling sheet and place it 
nearby.
Take all 
 from that Mystling’s tray and 
place them on the Mystling sheet. 
Take the Mystling’s Action deck. Shufﬂe it and place 
it face down in the deck slot.
Draw four Action cards (one by one) and, starting 
from slot 4, place one card in each slot to the right 
of your Action deck. 
Take a Combat tags Help card as well as a Help card 
with the same Element as the main Element of your 
Mystling.
: Use Help cards marked with a 
 icon.
COMBAT TAGS
Attack – deal 
 equal to 
 in range 1. 
Reduce it by the opponent’s 
Blink X – place your Mystling in any space in range X.
Cleanse X - discard X condition token.
Heal X – discard X
Interrupt X – discard X rightmost cards 
from the opponent’s track. 
Move – move by up to 
 spaces. 
Retreat / Rush – the Enemy moves by up 
to its 
 so that it ends in a space farthest/closest 
to its target.
(Drain) – Heal by the 
 dealt.
(Pierce X) - treat Enemy 
 as X lower 
(to a min. 0).
FIRE ELEMENT
Each Bonus Action can be used 
Combat tags and Elemental Help card.
6. Mulligan: you may choose to redraw the Action cards once. 
To do so, take all cards from your slots, put them aside, 
draw four new cards, and shufﬂe the previous ones back 
into the deck.
: Assign the Taunt token: choose a player to receive 
the Taunt token.
8. Modiﬁers: Adventure Journal often has modiﬁers that 
change the setup conditions. Check if there are modiﬁers 
in the Combat setup and apply them if needed. Some of 
them may affect previous steps.

Combat rules
Combat in Dragon Eclipse is played in turns. Turns are taken alter-
nately, starting with the player. Combat ends with you losing, win-
ning, or Taming the Enemy. It’s worth noting that not all Enemies 
can be Tamed; the Adventure Journal provides information about 
whether the Enemy is valid for Taming or not.
Combat ends immediately when one of the following three condi-
tions is fulﬁlled:
LOSE: your Mystling has as many or more 
: Players lose when one of  their Mystlings has as 
many or more 
TAME: when you fulﬁll all Taming conditions from the Tam-
ing card.
WIN: when the  Enemy has as many or more 
Actions
During your turn, you resolve Action cards and use Bonus Actions. 
You can never act with your Mystling unless the effect on a card 
or Bonus Action allows you to do so (e.g., you may only Move with 
your Mystling when you resolve a card/Bonus Action with the Move 
keyword).
: Each player controls their own Mystling. The turn order 
is slightly different, as the player with the Taunt token resolves 
their turn ﬁrst, followed by the other player, and then the En-
emy has its turn. Then, back to the player that currently has 
the Taunt token, and so on.
During a Player’s Turn, resolve the following steps in order
1. Use Bonus Action(s) (optional).
2. Resolving an Action card.
3. Use Bonus Action(s) (optional).
4. Draw cards.
5. End your turn and proceed to the Enemy turn.
Golden Rules of Combat
The effects on cards may overwrite some of the rules 
described in this rulebook. The rules on cards always 
take priority.
2. When more than one effect takes place at the same 
time (e.g., at the start of your turn), you may decide 
which one to resolve ﬁrst – you also decide for the En-
emy’s effects.
3. When, during an  Enemy turn, an  effect leaves you 
with more than one option (e.g., the Enemy may move 
to two different spaces), you may decide which option 
to choose.
4. Mystling standee can never be moved to  or placed 
in a space with another Mystling standee.
5. Treat the Enemy as your opponent for the purpose of all 
your effects. The  Enemy treats you as the  opponent 
for the purpose of its effects.
Action card effects
During Combat, you use your Action cards to act with your Mys-
tling.
There are three different types of Action card effects in the game:
Active effects: most Action cards have effects that are re-
solved immediately. These effects are not distinguished by 
any additional frame.
Strike only has an active effect.
2. Passive effects: some Action cards have effects that last as 
long as the cards are at the top of your discard pile. When 
a passive card gets covered by another card, the passive ef-
fect no longer applies. Cards that have passive effects may 
still have active effects (see below). Passive effects are in-
side a frame (see example below).
DE-CB-26/125
DEFENSIVE STANCE
, +2 
Defensive Stance has an active effect that gives a player 1
and a Passive effect that increases a Mystling’s Defense
and Willpower.
Note: You may discard Action cards (e.g., by using the Pre-
pare Bonus Action) to beneﬁt from their Passive effects.
3. Upgrade effects: some Action cards have long-lasting ef-
fects that apply as long as you do not reshufﬂe your deck. 
When you play an  Action card that  has an  Upgrade 
frame (see example below), attach it by placing it un-
der your Mystling sheet so that  the  effect in  the  frame 
is visible. From this moment on, the  effect applies. 
When you reshufﬂe the  deck, discard your upgrades 
and reshufﬂe them with the  rest of  your Action cards.
You may only have 1 Upgrade card attached to  your 
Mystling sheet at any time. If  you already have 
an  Upgrade attached and you resolve another card 
with an  Upgrade, you must discard one of  them.
Cards that  have Upgrade effects may still have Active ef-
fects. Resolve them before attaching Upgrade to your Mys-
tling sheet.
DE-CB-21/125
REACH
Your Attacks have +1 range.
Reach has both Active and Upgrade effects.
Basic keywords
Most effects in  the  game use keywords to  describe the  Action 
in a shortened way. Keywords on Action cards are bolded.
At the  start of  the  ﬁrst Scenario, you gain the  Starting deck 
(marked with an “S” in the top right-hand corner). The keywords 
in the Starting deck are explained on cards to make it easier to learn. 
More Advanced keywords are explained at the end of the rulebook 
(Combat keywords are also listed on the Help card), but you don’t 
need to learn them for now; they are slowly introduced throughout 
the game.
Range: many effects in  the  game use the  term range. 
While range is not a keyword on its own, it often modiﬁes 
other keywords and effects. When range is mentioned, it 
always assumes a maximum range of a given Action. Ac-
tions and effects may always target spaces that are closer 
than the maximum range. You may count range through 
any space, even if it’s occupied by a Mystling or a token 
(i.e., nothing blocks range unless the effect states other-
wise). The range is measured in spaces.
Spaces marked in green are within range 1 of the Young Iceling 
(located in the 
 space). All spaces marked in orange are within range 2 
of the Young Iceling. All spaces marked in red are within range 3 
of Young Iceling. The space with the Young Iceling 
on it is considered to be within range 1, 2, and 3.
Move: check the Mystling’s 
 value and move to an ad-
jacent space up to X times (where X is your 
 value). You 
move a Mystling one space at a time, but in one Move 
action, you may move several spaces. Some effects dur-
ing the game may modify Move. When you are instructed 
to “Move +1 
” consider your movement value to be 
1 greater for this movement.

The player resolves Move with their Young Emberling, 
allowing them to move up to two spaces. The player decides to move 
as far away as possible from the Golomo.
Attack: check if the opponent is within range 1 of your 
Mystling. If they are, subtract the opponent’s 
your 
 (to a minimum of 0), and deal 
 to the Enemy 
equal to the result. Otherwise, nothing happens.
Deal X
 in  range Y: check if  the  opponent is within 
the mentioned range of your Mystling. 
If  they are, subtract the  opponent’s 
 from the men-
tioned 
(to a minimum of 0) and deal 
 to the Enemy 
equal to the result. Otherwise, nothing happens.
For example, if you “Deal 2
 to opponent in any range” and 
the targeted Enemy has 1 
, you would deal 1
 to them.
For effects that state “For each (…) deal X 
” add all 
before subtracting the Enemy’s 
Trigger: you may only use Trigger once per turn. Ignore 
all Trigger effects after the  ﬁrst one. When you Trigger, 
resolve another card from your slots (do not gain 
from its slot) and discard it. Then, end resolving the card 
that caused the Trigger and discard it. See the Trigger ex-
ample in “Example of Players Turn” (page 20).
Slot X: if this card is in slot X, you resolve an additional ef-
fect. 
For example, the card has an effect: “Gain 1
. Slot 3: 
Gain 2
.” If this card is in slot 3, you get 1
and then 
also 2
Modiﬁers
Effects and keywords on cards may be modiﬁed. Modi-
ﬁers commonly increase or decrease the  values of  Mys-
tling’s statistics for  the  purpose of  that  singular effect
(e.g.,” Attack +2
”). Modiﬁers may also be applied to effects on 
other cards (e.g., “Your Attacks have +1 range”).
Example: A player resolves the effect “Move +1 
” with a Mystling 
that has 2 
. As a result, they may move up to 3 spaces.
Player’s Turn
Each Player’s Turn consists of  resolving one Action card, which 
in turn allows you to act with your Mystling. Additionally, you may 
use Bonus Actions by spending 
: Turn order is slightly different, as the  player with 
the Taunt token resolves their turn ﬁrst, followed by the other 
player, and then the Enemy has its turn. Then, back to the play-
er that currently has the Taunt token, and so on.
During a Player’s Turn, resolve the following steps in order
1. Use Bonus Action(s) (optional).
2. Resolving an Action card.
3. Use Bonus Action(s) (optional).
4. Draw cards.
5. End your turn and proceed to the Enemy turn.
Using Bonus Actions
Bonus Actions are players’ Actions that  may be performed by 
spending their cost in Power 
. Bonus Actions are found on El-
emental Help cards, Ability cards, and sometimes, even on Action 
cards or Arena effects. Bonus Actions found on Help cards are al-
ways available.
All Bonus Actions follow the same rules:
Each Bonus Action may only be resolved once per Play-
er’s turn. E.g., if you used the Dash Bonus Action in step 1 
of your turn, you cannot resolve it again during this or any 
other step. However, you may still use the Prepare Bonus 
Action if you haven’t used it yet.
All Bonus Actions cost 
. You must spend the number 
of 
indicated to the left of the Bonus Action to resolve 
its effect.
2. Resolving an Action card
The main part of a Player’s Turn is resolving an Action card. To re-
solve an Action card, follow the instructions below in order:
Choose an Action card slot with a card in it.
Note: You may choose any card from your slots. 
Even if the effect of the card wouldn’t do anything 
(e.g., the effect of the Action cards is Attack, but 
there is no opponent in range 1).
Gain as many 
 as shown above that slot.
If a player chooses slot 4 
with an Offensive Stance Action card, they gain 3
before Resolving the Offenisive Stance effect.
Resolve the effect of the card from the chosen slot 
(reading the card from top to bottom, left to right). 
You must resolve all effects on cards unless you are 
unable to do so (e.g., there is no opponent in range)
or the effects stated otherwise (e.g., “You may…”).
Place the resolved card face up on top of the Action 
cards discard pile. 
: Taunt change – whenever a player deal 
to an Enemy 
during their turn, and they don’t have the Taunt token, they take 
it from the other player. Dealing Conditions or interacting with the 
Enemy in other ways does not give you the Taunt token. The Enemy 
will (most likely) target the player with the Taunt token during their 
next activation. Using this effect intentionally is a great strategy. 
 Taunt token.
3. Use Bonus Actions
Follow the rules from step 1. Remember that each Bonus Action 
may only be used once per turn.
4. Draw new cards
Slide all Action cards in the slots from left to right to ﬁll empty 
slots. Then, draw new Action cards to ﬁll the remaining empty slots, 
starting from the rightmost empty slot.
There are a few keywords connected to deck manipulation:
Draw: whenever you draw a card during Combat, slide all 
cards in the slots from left to right to ﬁll empty slots (if any). 
Then, take the topmost card from your deck and place it 
in the rightmost empty slot. When you need to draw a card 
and your deck is empty, you must reshufﬂe.
Reshufﬂe: when you must draw a card and your deck is 
empty, discard all your attached Upgrades, shufﬂe your 
discard pile, and create a new deck. Some card effects may 
also allow you to reshufﬂe your deck.
Shufﬂe: some in game effects tell you to shufﬂe your deck. 
Do this by taking your deck and shufﬂing it. Do not take 
cards from your discard pile and do not discard your at-
tached Upgrades.
5. End your turn and proceed to the Enemy turn
Resolve end of turn effects in an order of your choice. 
Discard 1 Condition token of each type, if you have 
any (for details about Condition tokens, see page 32).
Start the Enemy turn.

A useful resource used by players. It is mainly gained during Com-
bat by resolving Action cards from speciﬁc slots in step 2 and from 
Action card effects, but it can also be gained during the Adventure 
part of the game. Usually, you start Combat without any 
unless 
you gain it during the Adventure.
Additional rules regarding 
When you discard
, return it to the pool. If you don’t 
have the required amount of 
, discard as much as you 
can and ignore the rest.
When you spend
, you must have that amount of 
If the instructions tell you to “Spend 2
 to Trigger” and 
you only have 1
, you cannot activate this effect.
All 
 is discarded after Combat.
 during Combat, place that many 
on your Mystling sheet. 
 during Adventure, divide it between your 
Mystlings as you wish and place it inside the Mystling tray. 
 gained during Adventure is used in the next Combat.
 is a limited component. Each Mystling can have 
a maximum of 10
 at any moment (a Mystling cannot 
 if it already has 10).
List of common Bonus Actions:
Bonus Actions on a Help card.
Dash: spend 1
 to resolve the Move action following movement 
rules.
Prepare: spend 1
 to discard an Action card from a chosen slot. 
Slide Action cards to the right to ﬁll the empty slots. You may draw 
a new Action card and place it in the rightmost empty slot (usually, 
slot 1).
Elemental Bonus Action – each Element has 1 unique Bonus Ac-
tion listed on that element’s Help card. Elemental Bonus Actions 
are available only to Mystlings with a matching main element.
Fire Mystlings may spend 5
 to resolve an Attack 
as a Bonus Action.
Special Ability Bonus Action – each Mystling has 1 or more unique 
Bonus Actions that are available only to them. You can ﬁnd it on 
the Ability cards.
A player controlling the Young Emberling may spend 8
 to re-
solve Firenova, which allows them to Deal 6
in range 3. 
Example of a Player Turn
The player resolves Combat. They have the Young Emberling and 
ﬁght against Golomo. The player is about to resolve their second 
turn in Combat. They have 2
 and 2
, while the Enemy Golomo 
has no 
 yet.
First, the player may use Bonus Actions, but they decide not to. 
The player then chooses a Lava Lash Action card in the 4th slot.
First, the player gains 3
 from the slot.
Then, they resolve the  Lava Lash effect from top to  bottom, 
left to  right. The  ﬁrst part of  the  effect (marked with blue) 
allows the  player to  “Deal 3
 in  range 3”. Since Golomo 
is within that range and has 0 
 it receives 3

The second part of the effect is optional as it says “You may spend 2
to Trigger”. The player decides to use this option. They spend 2
choose to Trigger the According to Plan in the 3rd slot (they do not 
from its slot).
As before, they resolve the card from top to bottom left to right. 
The ﬁrst part of the effect allows the player to Move. Young Ember-
ling has 2 
, so the player can move up to 2 spaces. The player de-
cides to move 1 space to be within range 1 of Golomo.
The second part of the effect states “Slot 3: Attack”. This effect may 
only be resolved if a card is in slot 3. Luckily, that’s the case, and 
the player resolves the Attack.
Young Emberling has 4 
 and Golomo’s 
 stat is 0. But Golomo 
has a Passive ability that gives it +1 
for each Quake in range 1. 
So Golomo has a total of 2 
 now.
This means that Young Emberling Attack is reduced by 2 and deals 
a total of 2
The  player fully resolved the  Triggered Action card (According 
to Plan), so they discard that card. Then, they discard the Action card 
that caused the Trigger (Lava Lash).
The player cannot resolve more Action cards this turn, but they may 
still use Bonus Actions. The player decides to use the Dash Bonus 
Action. They spend 1
 to Move.
They can move up to 2 spaces and decide to use their full 
 this 
time, moving as far as they can.
Then the  player also decides to  use the  Prepare Bonus Action, 
spending 1
 to discard a card and draw 1 card.
They discard Guardian Stance, slide all cards to the right and draw 
1 new card to slot 3. The passive effect of the Guardian Stance card 
applies, so Young Emberling has 2 
 now.
The player decides to end their turn since there is nothing more 
they can do: they cannot afford their Special Ability and Elemental 
Bonus Action, and they already used both Prepare and Dash Bonus 
Actions this turn. They have 1
 left, which may be used during 
their next turn.
The player would normally slide the cards to the right to ﬁll the emp-
ty slots, but their Action cards are already in the rightmost slots be-
cause they used the Prepare Bonus Action. So the player only reﬁlls 
the empty slots by drawing new cards. The player’s turn ends. Now 
the Enemy resolves its turn.

Enemy Turn
After the player’s turn, it’s time for the Enemy to act. 
: Remember that  the  turn order is different. First, it is 
the  turn of  the  player with the  Taunt token, then the  other 
player, and ﬁnally the Enemy. After the Enemy turn, the player 
with the Taunt token has their turn, and so on.
Enemies have several different effects that can be resolved based 
on their Enemy Ability card. The Enemy is going to resolve an ef-
fect matching the  top Enemy Attack card that  is always visible 
to the player.
Enemy Turn Order
During its turn, an Enemy resolves one of their effects. Every few 
turns, the Enemy resolves its Special Ability. To resolve an Enemy 
turn, follow the steps below.
Slide cards. Draw an Enemy Attack card.
Resolve the Enemy Attack card
Check and resolve the Special Ability.
Enemy turn ends. Resolve the player turn.
Slide cards. Draw an Enemy Attack card: slide all Enemy 
Attack cards by one slot to the right (in rare cases, when 
you would need to slide the card from slot 5, place it on 
the discard pile instead). Then, take an Enemy Attack card 
from the top of the deck and place it in the 1st slot.
If the Enemy deck becomes empty at any moment:
You gain 1 Fatigue and place it on the top of your discard 
pile – Fatigue cards are not removed after Combat. They 
are placed in your deck during a single Scenario and may 
be removed either by playing them during Combat or by 
various effects during the Adventure.
If there are no more Fatigue cards available, gain 5
in-
stead.
Reshufﬂe the  Enemy Attack discard and create a  new 
Enemy deck – do not discard Enemy Attack cards from 
the track.
: When the Enemy Attack deck runs out, only the play-
er with the  Taunt token takes the  Fatigue card (regardless 
of the Enemy target).
DE-CB-125/125
FATIGUE
2. Resolve the Enemy Attack card: check the Enemy Attack 
card in the 1st slot. Resolve the corresponding effect from 
the Enemy Ability card. Then, ﬂip the resolved Enemy At-
tack card face down. When resolving the  Enemy Attack, 
treat your Mystling as the “opponent”.
The Enemy will resolve the 
 effect during their next turn: 
“Attack +2 
 Attack.” This happens after sliding the cards 
and placing the topmost one in the 1st slot.
: Use the Enemy Attack cards with 
. These cards show 
you what the Enemy does, but you won’t know which player 
will be the target. The target is chosen after sliding and draw-
ing cards – it is shown by the card that is on the top of the En-
emy Attack deck.
The Enemy resolves its attack treating the target as an oppo-
nent. If the Enemy effect says “Each opponent” then the effect 
applies to both players (otherwise, the non-target player is ig-
nored by all the Enemy’s actions).
The target can be:
Taunt: the Enemy targets the player with the Taunt 
token.
Other: the  Enemy targets the  player who  doesn’t 
have the Taunt token.
3. Check and resolve Special Ability: if  there is an  Enemy 
Attack card above the Special Ability token, resolve the En-
emy Special Ability and discard all Enemy Attack cards from 
the Enemy slots.
4. Enemy turn ends. Proceed to the Player’s turn.
Resolve end of  turn effects in  the  order of  your 
choice. 
Discard 1 Condition token of each type from the En-
emy, if it has any (for details about Condition tokens 
see, page 32).
Start the Player’s turn.
Enemy Keywords
Many keywords you use as a player are also used by the Enemy and 
they work in the same or similar way (e.g., Attack and Deal
However, there are two keywords connected to movement that are 
speciﬁc to Enemies:
Retreat:
Enemy Retreat is resolved in a similar way to your Mys-
tling’s Move. 
During Retreat, the Enemy always moves to a space far-
thest from you (i.e., space that is the highest range from 
you), using the fewest number of possible moves.
When an Enemy Retreats and they are already in the far-
thest reachable space, they don’t move.
If there are several spaces meeting these conditions, you 
may choose to which of those spaces the Enemy Retreats.
The Frightened Windraiser Retreats. It has 3 
. There are 3 spaces 
where the Frightened Windraiser can go to end its movement farthest 
from its opponent (Young Emberling). The player decides to move it 
to the top space.

Rush:
The Enemy’s Rush is resolved in a similar way to your Mystling’s 
Move. 
During Rush, the Enemy always moves to a space closest to you 
(i.e., to  end within range 1 of  you if  possible), using the  lowest 
number of possible moves.
When an Enemy Rushes and they are within range 1 of you, they 
don’t move.
If  there are several spaces meeting these conditions, you may 
choose to which of those spaces the Enemy Rushes.
The Frightened Windraiser Rushes. It has 3 
. It wants to end its move-
ment as close to the opponent (Young Emberling) as possible so it won’t 
use its full 
. There are 2 spaces where the Frightened Windraiser can 
move. The player decides to move it to the bottom space.
Example of Enemy Turn
Note: The Enemy turn example uses the Placing Elemental Token rules, which you are not familiar with yet (see page 24). You may read 
the example without learning them right now.
It’s the Enemy Golomo’s turn. First, slide all Attack cards in Enemy Attack slots to the right, making space in slot 1 for a new card. Then place 
the top card of the Enemy Attack deck in slot 1 and compare its symbol to the Golomo Enemy Ability card. Then, resolve the corresponding effect.
The effect is to “Place 1 Quake 
 in range 2. Attack. Rush.” Resolve these effects from left to right, top to bottom. Place 1 Quake 
 in range 2 
in the space closest to the player’s Mystling (Young Emberling). There are two matching spaces (the space with I and the space with 
). In such 
cases, the player chooses where to place the token. They decide to place it in the I space. Then, the effect says “Attack.” Since the Golomo is not 
in range 1 of the player’s Mystling, the Attack has no effect.
The last part of the effect is “Rush.” The Golomo moves toward the player’s Mystling by 1 space since the Golomo has 1 
. There are two spaces 
(marked with green circles, see above) where the Golomo could move. In such cases, the player decides where the Enemy moves. The player 
chooses the top space.
The Enemy Attack card is now resolved – ﬂip it face down. There is no Enemy Attack card above the Special Ability token, so the Enemy does 
not resolve the Enemy Special Ability. The Enemy’s turn ends.

Other Combat Rules
Elemental advantage
The Elements in Dragon Eclipse interact with each other (each El-
ement has an advantage over another). This is represented by ad-
ditional effects that can be found on certain Action cards/Enemy 
Ability cards.
The diagram above shows Elemental advantage. Light and Dark are 
each other’s opposites. Fire uses Air as its fuel. Air can penetrate cracks 
in Earth’s armor. Earth is the only power that can stop Water. Water is 
perfect to quench Fire. You don’t need to remember this – it is always stated 
in the effect.
Advantage icons
Advantage icons are always followed by an effect. Resolve the ef-
fects only if your opponent’s Element matches the shown icon (this 
also applies to subtype Elements).
DE-CB-111/125
DE-CB-111/125
STORM
 and Weak to each other Mystling 
(including allies) in any range.
 Deal 3
For example, when you resolve the Storm card 
and your opponent’s Element is Fire, you also resolve 
the “Deal 3
in any range” effect.
Advantage icons used by Enemies work in  the  same way. Apply 
these effects only if your Mystling has an Element that matches 
the shown icon (this also applies to subtype Elements).
: Resolve the Advantage icon effect only if the current tar-
get has a matching Element.
Elemental tokens
Some Action cards, Bonus Actions, or Enemy effects can place 
Elemental tokens in  the  Arena or gain the  tokens for  Mystlings. 
The  name of  the  token is always followed by the  Elemental to-
ken icon (e.g., place 1 Quake 
 in range 2.) Elemental tokens are 
double-sided. The white side of the token is reserved for you and 
the black side is used by the Enemy. Tokens do not have effects on 
their own but they might be utilized by Special Abilities, Action card 
effects, or Enemy Ability cards.
When a Mystling gains a token, place it on that Mystling’s 
sheet.
Tokens are placed in the range mentioned by the effect.
You: choose the space as long as it is in range.
Enemy: the  Elemental token is placed as close 
to you as possible (including the space with your 
Mystling).
They may be placed in the same space as a Mystling.
Mystlings may move to and be placed in spaces with Ele-
mental tokens.
Tokens cannot be placed in a space with Terrain 
There may only be one player token (white) and one En-
emy token (black) in each space. 
Token limit (top right-hand corner of a Mystling stat card) 
deﬁnes how many tokens a Mystling may place/gain.
If a token that is above the Mystling token limit would be 
gained, ignore that gain.
If a token that is above the Mystling token limit would 
be placed:
You: take a token that is already in the Arena and place 
it. You may place that token in the same space.
Enemy: take a  token that  is farthest from you and 
place it as close to you as possible (as far as the range 
of the effect allows).

End of Combat
Combat ends immediately when one of 3 conditions is fulﬁlled:
LOSE
If, at any moment, there are equal to or more 
on your Mystling 
sheet than the Mystling’s 
, you immediately Lose the Combat.
: If  only one of  the  players’ Mystlings has equal to  or 
more 
 than their 
, you immediately Lose.
WIN
You may end Combat by defeating the Enemy. If at any moment 
there is equal to or more 
 on the Enemy sheet than its 
, and 
you didn’t fulﬁll all Taming conditions, you Win the Combat.
For example, when you resolve a card with an effect: “Deal 2
 in range 
2. Heal 2.” If the “Deal 2
 in range 2” part of the effect fulﬁlls the win 
condition, you must immediately end the Combat and cannot resolve 
the “Heal 2” effect.
TAME
Taming is more challenging than winning, but after you Tame an En-
emy, it will join your ranks. However, if a Taming card wasn’t placed 
during Combat Setup, the Enemy Mystling cannot be Tamed.
To Tame an  Enemy, you must fulﬁll all conditions on its Taming 
card in the presented order (from the ﬁrst to the last). This means 
that you cannot fulﬁll the third Taming condition if you haven’t ful-
ﬁlled the 1st and 2nd ones yet.
When you fulﬁll a  condition, place token A  in  a  slot next to  it. 
Conditions remain fulﬁlled even if the game state changes (e.g., 
if the condition was to reduce the Enemy’s 
, you fulﬁlled it, and 
it Healed, the condition remains fulﬁlled).
When you fulﬁll the last condition on the Taming card, you immedi-
ately Tame the Enemy, and Combat ends. This happens even if an En-
emy has equal to or more 
A Taming card.
Conceding
We do not recommend it, but you can also decide to concede a ﬁght 
at any time during the Combat. If you do, deal 
 to your Mystling 
so that their 
 equals their 
, and resolve the LOSE outcome. 
If you do concede you cannot continue the Combat, even if the in-
structions in the Script states otherwise.
: Deal 
 to both players’ Mystlings.
After Lose/Tame/Win
When one of  the  conditions above is reached, look at the  bot-
tom section of  the  Arena card below “END OF COMBAT.” Go 
to the Script matching the result and follow the instructions there. 
If  you took part in  a  Random Combat, follow the  instructions 
in the “END OF RANDOM COMBAT” sections of the Arena card.
MOUNTAIN PINES
Setup: Place an Unstable Cone 
space except the one in the middle.
Rules: When you move to a space 
, discard it
 and deal 2
 to an opponent in range 2. 
When an Enemy moves to a space 
, discard that 
Unstable Cone 
 without any effect.
Tame – go to Script J102, win – go to Script J100, 
lose – go to Script J101.
Behind the Mystling Encyclopedia divider, you gather Portraits and 
Trivia of Mystlings you came across and Tamed during your journey. 
These cards have no gameplay signiﬁcance, but you track your pro-
gress and knowledge about Mystlings with them.
In the  Special Edition of  the  game, use the  Mystling Encyclo-
pedia binder instead of the divider. Slot Portrait and Trivia cards 
in the slots matching the cards’ IDs.
Portrait cards: if  you were ﬁghting against a  Mystling 
for  the  ﬁrst time (regardless of  the  Combat outcome), 
you will be instructed to take its Portrait card and place 
it in  the  Mystling Encyclopedia. Place this card behind 
the Mystling Encyclopedia divider.
65A
Young Emberling Portrait card.
Trivia: Mystling trivia can be found on the  B-side 
of the Taming cards. If you Tame an Enemy, you will be in-
structed to take its Taming card, ﬂip it B-side up, and place 
it in  the  Mystling Encyclopedia. Place this card behind 
the Mystling Encyclopedia divider.
Emberlings always lay two eggs. 
When the ﬁrst egg hatches, the mother 
leaves the nest, and from then on, it’s up 
to the older (yet still young) Emberling 
to care for its sibling. Fiery and energetic 
from the moment it takes its ﬁrst breath, 
it tends to the egg with surprising gentleness.
64B
Young Emberling Trivia.
Adding cards to Random Combats
The Adventure Journal often instructs you to add a Tier card to Ran-
dom Combats. Almost every Mystling that you didn’t Tame will end 
up in Random Combat, so you have a chance to Tame it using Es-
sence (during the Navigating the World Map step) or encounter it 
again during Random Combats. The  Random Combats and Tier 
cards are described in detail on page 32.
Add the  X Tier card to  the  Random Combats: ﬁnd 
the mentioned Tier card in theTier deck, and place it be-
hind the Random Combat divider.
Removing Enemy cards
When you Tame a Mystling, you no longer have a chance to see it as 
your Enemy. That’s why the Adventure Journal instructs you to place 
the Enemy Ability of the Tamed Mystling behind the Removed divid-
er. This way, you can also use the Tamed Mystling dividers to organize 
Mystlings in your Party.
Clear the Arena
The  Adventure Journal tells you when to  Clear the  Arena after 
Combat. To do so, follow the steps below:
Place your Action deck in  the  Mystling compartment 
(along with all gained Fatigue cards).
2. Place your Mystling’s Stat and Ability cards with all 
3. Discard all your 
 and Elemental tokens (they are not 
saved between Combats).
4. Place the Enemy cards behind the corresponding divider.
Note: If you Tamed the Enemy, skip this step.
5. Take all Enemy Attack cards and shufﬂe them together.
6. Discard all components from the Arena.
Close the Arena book.

1. Gaining access to new Scenarios
Take the World Map – take it out of the box and place it in front 
You may be instructed to perform several steps:
To ﬂip a Worldmap card, take it from the slot and ﬂip it to its Explored 
side. This often means that a once available Scenario is now locked.
You also gain new Worldmap cards and slot them in the cardholder. 
Pay attention to which side up the cards should be and where to slot 
them. Those cards offer new Scenarios or new Scripts to explore dur-
ing the Navigating the World Map step.
World Map cardholder with slotted card (after Scenario 1).
2. Opening Boosters
When you are told to open a Booster, choose a random Booster from 
the game box and open it. Place all cards from the opened Booster 
behind the Unlocked cards divider. These cards can be added to your 
deck during the Deck Construction phase in subsequent Scenarios.
In the  Special Edition of  the  game Boosters are sealed. To open 
a Booster, you tear the foil package. After the Campaign, you may 
reset the Boosters using the Unboxing instruction and Booster en-
velopes.
3. Gaining Advancement cards
In addition to the starting cards (S) obtained in the ﬁrst Scenario, 
there are other neutral cards that can be unlocked after each Scenar-
io. These cards are included in the Advancement deck. There are two 
Advancement decks: Advancement deck A, which is used at the be-
ginning of the game, and the more powerful Advancement deck B, 
unlocked later in the Campaign.
Gain an Advancement card:
Take all Advancement cards from your current Advancement 
deck (in the ﬁrst few Scenarios, it will be Advancement deck A). 
2. Draw 8 cards, with 1 fewer for each Fatigue in both Action 
decks, to a minimum of 3 cards. Place them face up in front 
3. Choose 3 cards and place them behind the Unlocked cards 
divider. These cards can be added to  your deck during 
the  “Performing the  Deck Construction” phase in  subse-
quent Scenarios. Shufﬂe the  rest of  the  cards back into 
the Advancement deck.
4. Discard all Fatigue Cards
Fatigue is not saved between Scenarios. Remove all Fatigue cards 
from both Mystlings’ Action decks and place them with the  rest 
of the Fatigue cards.
5. Fully Heal your Mystlings
 is not saved between Scenarios. Discard all 
 from both Mys-
tlings.
6. Saving the game
The game can be saved only after ﬁnishing a Scenario. The Adven-
ture Journal tells you when you can save the game.
To save the game, follow the instructions below:
Place both Mystlings behind the Party Divider with the Ac-
tion cards assigned to them. If you want to save the decks 
you’ve constructed for them at the beginning of this Scenar-
io, you may place them here as well.
2. Place the rest of your Action cards behind the Unlocked cards 
divider.
3. Place your Equipment cards (remember that  you are limited 
to 2), your Item cards (max. 3), and all your Secrets, Essence, and 
Silver behind the Inventory divider.
4. Return all remaining components to the box.
AFTER THE SCENARIO
This phase starts when you reach a Script in the Adventure Journal that says: “Congratulations! You’ve reached the end of the Scenario.” The text that follows contains instructions on how to end a Scenario. The fol-
lowing steps are also listed in the Adventure Journal, so don’t worry about remembering them.

Hard modes
Available during the campaign.
If you want to make your game more challenging, you can apply 
the following rules. The Hard mode only affects the Combat part 
of  the  game. You can switch to  Hard mode at any time during 
the game (except during Combat). You can also resign from this 
mode at any time if  you feel it doesn’t suit you. We advise you 
to play the ﬁrst Scenario without hard mode.
There are three ways to modify your game. We highly advise using 
only one of them at a time.
Corruption hard mode
Available in solo and 2-player games.
This mode increases the  opponent’s stats and may increase 
the Combat duration.
Rules: Before each Combat, draw one random Corruption card (see 
page 32) for your Enemy and place it under its stat card. During 
Combat, add the stats from the Corruption card to the Enemy. This 
may cause the Enemy to have more than 1 Corruption card.
: Slot the Corruption card under a Major Corruption.
Unpredictable hard mode
Available in solo games.
This makes Combat less deterministic.
Rules: Play with the Enemy Attack deck face down. During the “Re-
solve the Enemy Attack card” step, ﬂip the topmost Enemy Attack 
card and then resolve it.
Steel hard mode
Available in solo and 2-player games.
This mode lowers the amount of Healing after Combat, making 
each consecutive Combat during a Scenario more dangerous.
Rules: Whenever you encounter this instruction: “Each Mystling 
that  took part in  this Combat Heals up to  half (rounded down) 
of their 
,” instead resolve “Each Mystling that took part in this 
Combat Heals 5. They cannot Heal to  more than half (rounded 
down) of their 
.”
PvP mode
Not available during the Campaign.
In the PvP mode you can challenge your friends to an epic duel. All 
Mystlings can compete with each other in PvP mode. Depending 
on how much time you have, you can choose to play the following:
Quick battle (30-45 minutes).
Challenge (90 minutes).
Both Quick battle and Challenge use the Combat (page 18) and 
Deck Construction rules (page 7). You must be familiar with them 
to play this mode. You can ﬁnd the rule changes for PvP below:
You cannot Tame the opponent. To Win the Combat you 
must make the  Enemy have equal to  or more 
Use the PvP side of the Arena cards.
When placing Elemental tokens, the ﬁrst player must use 
the white side, and the other player uses the black side 
of the tokens.
Interrupt cannot affect the cards in slot 1 (they cannot be 
discarded this way).
Use the B-side of Stat cards (with “PvP” at the bottom).
62B
A PvP Stat card.
Quick battle
In Quick battle, each player controls one chosen Mystling, con-
structs the deck for it, and ﬁghts with it. Players play their turns 
alternately until one player wins.
Quick battle setup
Randomly choose the ﬁrst player.
2. The  ﬁrst player chooses any Mystling and takes its Stat, 
Ability, and Action cards. Then the other player do the same 
thing.
3. Simultaneously players construct decks for  their chosen 
Mystlings, following all the Deck Construction rules with 
the following exceptions:
Divide all neutral cards into two piles so that each 
pile has one copy of each card.
Divide all Elemental Action cards into piles with 
cards of each Element.
Players receive one neutral card pile each (players 
may also agree to trade some of the neutral cards). 
If  players chose the  same Element type Mystling 
and they cannot agree about who takes which cards, 
they choose them one by one starting with the ﬁrst 
If one of the Mystlings has a subtype Element, they 
can choose Action cards for  their subtype after 
the  other player ﬁnishes their deck construction 
(they use the cards that are left).
4. Players randomly select one of  the  Arena maps 
(use 
side).
5. Players randomly draw one of the PvP Arena cards and fol-
low all Setup instructions on it.
6. The  ﬁrst player places their Mystling in  starting space I. 
The other player chooses to place their Mystling in starting 
space II or III.
Players take their Action decks, shufﬂe them, and place 
them in the Player’s deck slot face down.
8. Players draw four Action cards (one by one) and places 
them in slots 1-4 to the right of their Action deck.
9. Starting with the  ﬁrst player, each player may decide 
to perform a mulligan (see page 17).
10. The second player gains 1
11. The ﬁrst player starts their turn.
Challenge
In Challenge, players ﬁght each other in a series of rounds with each 
player competing with 3 chosen Mystlings. Players have a chance 
to switch Mystlings between rounds. Players perform their turns 
alternately until one player wins the  round. To win a  Challenge, 
a player must win 2 out of 3 rounds. This means that during a Chal-
lenge, you play 2 or 3 rounds. The winner of the round cannot use 
the Mystling they used in subsequent rounds.
Challenge setup
Randomly choose the host player.
2. The host player chooses one Mystling and takes its Stat, 
Ability, and Action cards. Then, the  other player does 
the same thing and immediately chooses their second Mys-
tling. The host player chooses their second and third Mys-
tling. Finally, the other player chooses their third Mystling. 
Players cannot choose a Mystling with a main Element they 
already have.
3. Divide all neutral cards into two piles so that each pile has 
one copy of each card.
4. Divide all Elemental action cards into piles with cards 
of each Element.
5. Players receive one neutral card pile each (players may also 
agree to trade neutral cards).
6. Simultaneously, players construct decks for  one of  their 
chosen Mystlings, following all the Deck Construction rules 
with the following exceptions:
If  players chose the  same Element type Mystling 
and they cannot agree about who takes which cards, 
they choose them one by one starting from the host 
If one of the Mystlings has a subtype element, they 
may choose Action cards for  their subtype after 
the  other player ﬁnishes their deck construction 
(they use the cards that are left). 
Repeat this process for the remaining Mystlings un-
til each player has constructed 3 decks.
ADDITIONAL GAME MODES

Round set up:
Only during the  ﬁrst round: Randomly choose the  ﬁrst 
Players randomly select one of  the  Arena maps 
(use 
 side).
Players randomly draw one of the PvP Arena cards and fol-
low all the Setup instructions on it.
The  ﬁrst player chooses one of  their Mystlings for  this 
round. Then, the second player chooses their Mystling.
The ﬁrst player places their Mystling in starting space I. 
The other player chooses to place their Mystling in starting 
space II or III.
Players take the Action deck of their currently chosen Mys-
tling, shufﬂe it and place it in the Player’s deck slot face-
down.
Players draw four Action cards (one by one) and place them 
in slots 1-4 to the right of their Action deck. 
Starting with the  ﬁrst player, each player may decide 
to perform a mulligan (see page 17). 
The second player gains 1
The ﬁrst player starts their turn.
After the round:
If one player wins 2 rounds, they are the winner of the Chal-
lenge and the Challenge ends.
Otherwise:
The  player that  won the  round places the  Mys-
tling standee that  won the  round aside (marking 
that they have 1 won round). They cannot use this 
Mystling in subsequent rounds.
Both players discard all 
from their Mys-
tling sheets.
The  player who  lost the  round decides who  is 
the ﬁrst player in the next round.
Clear the Arena.
Set up the next round following the Round set up steps.
Roguelite mode
Available solo or with 2 players.
Not available during the Campaign. 
Before starting the Roguelite mode, it is recommended to com-
plete the Campaign.
Game overview
Players select one Mystling each and attempt to reach the 3rd Boss 
by ﬁghting their way through a map. Each map features three stag-
es. Each stage ends with a boss ﬁght. After each Boss, players are 
able to save their game or continue playing. If you don’t succeed, 
don’t worry! With the Silver and Essence you have collected dur-
ing a Run, you are able to unlock additional perks and Mystlings 
that can help you move through the maps.
The  main loop of  a  roguelite session (called a  Run) is choos-
ing a  space on a  map, resolving its effect (gaining a  reward or 
resolving a  Combat), and then choosing another space until 
you win the  Run by defeating the  3rd, ﬁnal Boss. If  the  Mys-
tling of  any player has equal to  or more 
you succumb to  wounds and exhaustions and lose the  Run. 
In both cases, go to the Run Resolution.
Roguelite Setup
You only need to perform this setup once before beginning your 
very ﬁrst Roguelite Run.
If you haven’t already, open all boosters.
Separate the Advancement cards into decks A and B.
Prepare the  Elemental Action cards, dividing them into 
separate decks for each Element.
Place all Mystling cards (Stat, Ability, Enemy Ability, Tam-
ing, Portrait, and Action) behind their corresponding di-
viders.
Prepare the Tier cards, dividing them into separate decks 
for each Mystling Tier.
Take the Equipment and Item decks and remove all cards 
without the RL mark in the bottom right corner – these 
aren’t used in  this mode. Leave the  remaining cards 
in the play area.
Prepare the Enemy Attack deck 
: Use the Enemy deck marked with 
Prepare Universal tokens, Condition tokens, Elemental to-
kens, Damage tokens, and Power markers.
Prepare standees.
Take a new Roguelite sheet.
Take all components exclusive to this mode: Roguelite 
maps, Artifacts, and Mystery cards.
Artifacts cards
BLINKING STONE
At beginning of your turn:
exhaust to Blink 7.
LO CKE D
ARTIFACT
BLINKING STONE
Move at least 11 spaces 
during one turn.
A locked Artifact (left) and an unlocked Artifact (right).
Artifacts are a new type of card, similar to Items and Equipment. 
You unlock them during Roguelite Runs.
Each Artifact card has locked and unlocked sides.
Artifacts are one-time-use cards.
: Artifacts are shared by players.
After use, they are exhausted (rotate them 90 degrees 
to mark that you can’t use them) until you reach the next 
Campsite after Combat with a Boss.
Before your very ﬁrst Run, all Artifacts are locked – their unlocked 
sides should not be read.
To unlock an Artifact, a player must fulﬁll the Achievement present 
on the locked side of the card. After that, this Artifact is ﬂipped 
and placed to the side until the Run resolution (you cannot use it 
during this Run).
: Players cannot unlock each other’s Artifacts.
Mystery cards
Discard 1 Silver.
WISHING WELL
Gain 2 Silver.
OR
Draw a random Enemy Attack card
and resolve:
Each player draws 3 cards from the 
Advancement deck and chooses one:
• Add one of them to your deck. 
• Discard them and remove 1 chosen card 
from your deck.
Gain 3 Silver.
Gain 5 Silver.
Mystery cards represent random encounters and adventures. In 
between Combats, players resolve at least one of those cards. Mys-
tery cards are split into two sections: the top section allows players 
to improve their Action decks by adding or removing cards, and 
the bottom section has various effects that can grant Items, Equip-
ment, and other advantages.

Save Sheet
Mystlings
Starting Perks
Artifacts
Artifact Perks
Darkness Mode
Maps
 
 
 
 Firple 
 
 Prowler 
 
 Young Alukah 
 Young Iceling 
 Golomo 2 
 
 Regalian 2 
 
 Young Emberling 2 
 Young Gaiadon 2 
 Eldrithia 3 
 
 Elkthorn 3 
 
 Furwing 3 
 
 Glarexus 3 
 
 Siren 3 
 
 
 Young Bolb 3 
 
 
 
 Young Shadeclaw 3 
 Alukah 4 
 
 
 Blazereef 4 
 
 Bolb 4 
 
 
 Chrysomallon 4 
 Darktailen 4 
 Emberling 4 
 Iceling 4 
 
 
 Luminesca 4 
 Renewed Firple 4 
 Shadeclaw 4 
 
 Windraiser 4 
 Artios 5 
 
 
 Gaiadon 5 
 
 
 
 
 Umbra 5 
 
 
 Vogandr 5 
 
X=3
10 Silver
X=2
6 Silver
X=1
3 Silver
Add X chosen Neutral cards to the deck 
 
Add X chosen Elemental cards to the deck 
 
Remove X cards from the deck 
 
 
Gain X chosen Items 
 
 
 
Gain X
 
 
 
 
 
Gain X Equipment 
 
 
 
 Blinking Stone
 Emptying Book
 Encased Crystals
 Forgery
 Gem of Growth
 Guiding Grass
 Infused Bracelet
 Reshufﬂing Tome
 Smithereens
 Spare Soul
 1 Artifact Slot
 Remove 1
 + 
 Unlock Advancement B
 Unlock Taming
 2 Artifact slots
 Unlock Darkness Mode
 Remove Advancement A
 Remove 1 additional 
 Unlock 1 Mystling for free
 3 Artifact slots
 Start of a Run: Gain 5 
 Start of a Run: Remove 1 Mystling card
 Start of a Run: Gain 1 Fatigue
 Camp: Heal 5 less
 Boss starts with 1 Coruption
 Tier +1 (max. 5)
 Elemental Ability cost +1
 Special Ability cost +1
 Gain only 1
 from slot 2
 Enemy setup: Special Ability slot -1
 Map 1 
 Map 2 
 Map 3 
 Map 4 
Roguelite Mode
This mode features a Save Sheet to track progress and achievements. It is divided into 6 sections:
Mystlings
Track which Mystlings are available to play.
Before your very ﬁrst Run, you have four Mystlings unlocked (indicated by a black dot). You unlock more Mystlings in your Runs.
Each Mystling has three boxes next to them, which you mark after defeating Bosses.
The ﬁrst box allows players to start Runs from Campsite 1 with that Mystling. The second box allows players to start Runs from Campsite 2 with that Mystling. The third box shows that the 3rd Boss was defeated 
by this Mystling.
During a Run resolution, players may spend Essence to unlock Mystlings.
2. Artifacts
You mark which Artifacts you’ve managed to unlock on the Save sheet.
3. Artifact Perks
Every time a player unlocks an Artifact, they mark the ﬁrst available slot on the Save sheet under Artifact Perks, unlocking this perk for future runs.
Types of Artifact perks:
X Artifact Slots: At the beginning of each run, players collectively choose as many unlocked Artifacts as they have unlocked slots.
Remove 
+ 
: When resolving a Mystery card, remove 1 
and 1 
 Enemy card before drawing a card, increasing your chances for a positive effect. Shufﬂe them back into the Enemy deck 
after resolution.
Unlock Advancement cards B: During game setup, players shufﬂe all B cards with A cards to make a better Advancement deck.
Tame Unlock: Players may now Tame Mystlings in the Roguelite mode. While setting up Combat against a Mystling that isn’t already unlocked, set up Combat using the Arena and Taming cards 
listed on the Tier card of the Enemy.
4. Starting Perks
These perks help players start off stronger. Each perk tier must be unlocked in order, meaning you must ﬁrst buy the one that costs 3 Silver before buying the 6 Silver one and so on. However, you may buy different 
perks of the same cost in any order.
5. Maps
After completing a map (by defeating the 3rd Boss), players unlock an additional Roguelite map, which they can explore during future runs.
Upon completing a map for the ﬁrst time, players receive 3 Essence.
6. Darkness Mode
Each time, you mark all 3 boxes next to a Mystling, unlock the next tier of Darkness by marking the topmost unmarked Darkness tier. When you start a Run, you may decide to play with all unlocked Darkness 
modiﬁers; this is an optional step that makes the difﬁculty of the game progressively harder.
You are not required to use the Darkness rules at all, although it is recommended if you want more of a challenge.

Types of Darkness Mode modiﬁers:
Start of a Run: during the Run setup, resolve 
the  corresponding effect. Remove 1 Mystling 
card means that you should remove one random 
Mystling speciﬁc card from your Action deck.
Heal 5 less: when you should fully Heal your 
Mystling during the Camp phase, leave 5
on the Mystling sheet.
Boss starts with 1 Corruption: attach 1 Cor-
ruption card to the Enemy sheet at the start 
of Combat with a Boss.
Tier +1: when you draw a Tier card, draw a Tier 
card from one higher Tier. The maximum Tier 
is 5.
Elemental/Special 
Ability 
cost 
the  cost of  those abilities is increased by 1 
(to a max. of 10).
Gain only 1
 from slot 2: use 
 to  cov-
er one of the 
 symbols above Action card 
slot 2. You only gain 1
when resolving a card 
from this slot.
Special Ability slot – 1: when you set up 
an Enemy, place the Special Ability token one 
slot to the left (min. slot 1).
Map
RL 01
Roguelite maps are divided into 3 parts – each starting with a Camp-
site and ending with a Boss. Players move on the map, their current 
position marked with a 
Boss. 
. Each time they move to a new space on 
the map they must resolve an appropriate effect (described in detail 
in the Roguelite Gameplay section – see page 31). There are 2 to 4 slots 
marked with letters for Mystery cards on the map. Some space effects 
use cards placed in those slots.
Run Setup
To start a game session of the Roguelite mode, you must perform the steps below. If this is your very ﬁrst Run, you must perform a Roguelite 
setup beforehand.
Choose an unlocked Roguelite map and place it in the middle of the play area. Place a a 
 in the starting space – it represents your 
position on the map.
2. Prepare the components:
Shufﬂe the Advancement A cards (along with B cards, if you’ve unlocked them in Roguelite mode) and place them next 
to the map.
Place Enemy Attack, Item, Corruption, and Equipment cards next to the map.
Shufﬂe the Mystery cards. Place one face up card on each lettered slot on the map. Place the remaining cards face down next 
to the map.
3. Players collectively choose unlocked Artifacts up to the number of available Artifact slots. These Artifacts are available during this 
Run.
4. Each player performs the following steps:
Choose one of the unlocked Mystlings.
: Players must choose Mystlings with different main Element.
Remove the Tier card of the previously chosen Mystling from the Tier deck. 
Take the chosen Mystling’s Stat, Ability, and Action cards, a set of 10 different Starting cards (marked with S in the upper right-
hand corner), and a Help card matching their Mystling Element.
Place the Elemental decks matching the chosen Mystling’s main and sub Elements next to the map.
Resolve the effects of unlocked Starting perks.
Choose one of the locked Artifact cards and place it face down in your play area (Achievement side up) – you are able to unlock 
the artifact if you fulﬁll the condition during this Run.

Roguelite Gameplay
Each round of a Roguelite Run consists of moving to a space on 
the Roguelite map and resolving the space’s effect. This continues 
until the Run’s resolution.
To move to a space, players ﬁrst choose where they want to move 
their 
move t
r 
 on the Roguelite map following arrows. You cannot move 
backward or in any other way than following arrows. They place 
the 
ckwar
e 
 in this space, and then resolve the space’s effect. All effects 
are described below: 
Tier X: Draw a  random opponent from the  indicated 
tier, and then prepare and resolve Combat according 
to the rules described in the rulebook with the following 
exceptions:
Do not place a Taming card unless you have unlocked 
the Artifact Perk that allows you to Tame Mystlings.
When you win, don’t go to the Script on the Are-
na card, but instead place the defeated Mystling’s 
Tier card next to the map (it won’t be used until 
you reach the Camp space). Then, choose another 
space on the map to move to. If you defeat the 3rd 
boss, you win the Run!
When you lose, don’t go to the Script on the Are-
na card, but instead immediately move to the Run 
Resolution.
Boss: A battle with a Boss plays like a regular Combat with 
the following modiﬁcations:
Combat setup: Shufﬂe the  Corruption deck and 
place it next to the Enemy Attack deck. Each time 
the  Enemy Attack deck is reshufﬂed, draw a  Cor-
ruption card and place it under the Enemy Mystling 
sheet. A Boss may have more than 1 Corruption card.
Bosses cannot be Tamed, even after unlocking 
the Artifact Perk that allows you to Tame Mystlings!
Mystery card with a number or a letter:
If the space has a letter, resolve the card in the match-
ing slot that was set up at the beginning of the game. 
Do not discard this card afterward!
If the ﬁeld shows an outline of 1 card or 2 cards, play-
ers draw that many cards, choose one of them, and 
place the rest back at the bottom of the deck. After 
resolving a card, place it to the bottom of the deck.
If  a  card instructs you to  draw a  random Enemy 
Attack card, shufﬂe all Enemy Attack cards (if you 
have unlocked the Artifact Perks, you remove some 
of the cards beforehand), and draw one at random.
Camp: Resolve the steps described below:
Each Mystling Heals all 
Mark boxes on the Save sheet next to the Mystlings 
who  defeated the  Boss for  completing a  section 
of the map (e.g., for defeating the 1st Boss mark box 
1 near the Mystling’s name).
Gain 1 Essence for  each box that  you marked 
in the previous step. 
All Exhausted Artifact cards become available again 
(rotate them back). Players may choose to change 
the Artifact cards for other unlocked Artifacts.
If any Player does not have a Locked Artifact card, 
they may pick one now.
You may continue or save the game (see below).
Run Resolution
When you lose a Run (i.e., one of your Mystlings has equal to or 
more 
), win a Run by defeating a 3rd Boss, or decide 
to end the Run without saving, resolve the following steps:
Discard all 
 and locked Artifacts.
Gain Silver:
Take all Tier cards of  the  Mystlings you have de-
feated during this Run. For each card, gain X Silver, 
where X is the Tier of this card.
Players spend collected Silver to unlock Starting perks 
for subsequent Runs on the Save sheet. This may be 
done at any time during the  Run Resolution, even 
in the middle of gaining Silver from the Tier cards.
Silver is a limited resource, and you may never have 
more than 10 Silver.
Gain Essence:
1 Essence: for  each Artifact unlocked during this 
Run.
3 Essence: if players completed the map for the ﬁrst 
time.
Players use gathered Essence to unlock new Mys-
tlings for subsequent Runs on the Save sheet. This 
may be done at any time during the Run Resolution.
Essence is a limited resource, and you may never 
have more than 6 Essence.
Move all Artifact cards set aside to the unlocked Artifact 
pool. They are available for the next Run.
Return all Action cards, Tier cards, and other components 
to their decks. Nothing carries over to subsequent Runs 
except for bonuses and unlocks marked on the Save sheet.
Saving game (optional)
After each Campsite, you may decide to save the game and return 
to it later. To save the game, follow these steps:
Each player puts their deck in the Mystling tray.
Players place their Silver and Essence in  the  Mystling 
tray. If they play with Darkness, also place unhealed 
in the tray.
Take 
e
 in the number of defeated Bosses and place 
them in the Mystling tray (as a reminder of where you 
ended the game).
Place the rest of the components in the box.
Resuming a Saved Run
To resume a saved game, follow these steps:
Prepare the game components as described in Run Setup. 
Each player take their saved Action deck from the Mystling 
tray along with the Stat, Ability, and Help cards.
Each player takes all Silver and Essence from the Mystling 
tray and places it in their play area.
Players collectively choose a number of unlocked Artifact 
cards according to the available Artifact slots.
Each player takes one Artifact card and places it, Achieve-
ment side up, in their play area.
Place the e 
on the map in the Campsite space of which 
they ended the game (1st, if they have 1 
ps te s
, or 2nd, if they 
have 2 
ded
). Then, discard all 
t ey
l
 from your Mystling tray.
Shortcuts
This mode allows players to  start from the  1st or 2nd campsite. 
This is only available if each of the chosen Mystlings have enough 
marked boxes. You follow the standard Run Setup rules with the fol-
lowing exceptions:
You cannot play with the Darkness rules.
If you have 1 marked box, place the e 
 on Campsite 1, take 
3 Mystery cards, resolve the top sections of them one by 
one, and discard them. 
If you have 2 marked boxes, place the e 
 on Campsite 1 
or 2, take 3 or 6 Mystery cards respectively, resolve the top 
sections of them one by one, and discard them. 
Expansion compatibility
Mystlings from all expansions can be used in Roguelite mode. Write 
their names on the Roguelite Save Sheet in empty spaces. Next 
to their names, write the Essence cost that you can ﬁnd on their 
Tier cards. Then, add those Tier cards to the rest of the base game 
Tier cards.

Random Combat
Random Combats use Tier cards for  a  randomized setup. At 
the start of the game, the Random Combat deck is empty – there 
are no Tier cards behind the Random Combat divider. The Adven-
ture Journal often instructs you to add Tier cards to the Random 
Combats. Almost every Mystling that  you fail to  Tame ends up 
in the Random Combats, so you will have a chance to Tame it using 
Essence (the Exploring Location Map step) or encounter it again 
in a Random Combat.
You may ﬁnd the following instructions regarding Random Combats:
Add the X Tier card to the Random Combats – take the Tier 
card deck, ﬁnd the mentioned card, and place it behind 
the Random Combat divider.
Set up a Random Combat – take all the cards from behind 
the  Random Combats divider, shufﬂe them, and draw 
2 cards at random (if there is only 1 card in the Random 
Combats, draw that card). Then, choose one of the drawn 
cards and set up a Combat using the components listed on 
the Tier card, following all the Combat Setup rules.
Set up a Random Combat, adding X to the pool of Enemies 
to choose from – after drawing 2 Random Combat cards, 
add the mentioned card from the Tier deck to the pool 
to choose from. Choose one of them, and set up a Combat.
After the Random Combat, the bottom part of the Arena card in-
structs you to go to Script 200 of your current Scenario (e.g., if you 
are playing a Scenario with all Scripts starting with the letter A, you 
should go to Script A200). Then, the Adventure Journal uses the in-
formation on the Tier card (Tamed, Mystling Encyclopedia) to give 
you the right cards.
Tier cards
ELDRITHIA
Arena: card 9, map 1. 
Enemy: cards 46, 47, and 48.
 Major Corruption: C.
Tamed: cards 46, 50, 
and Action cards (6).
Mystling Encyclopedia: 48 and 49.
Each Mystling Tier card consist of:
Mystling Tier (I-V): describes how powerful the Mystling is. 
Sometimes used in the Navigating the World Map step and 
in Roguelike mode.
2. Mystling Essence cost: tells you how much Essence you 
must spend to  Tame a  Mystling during the  Navigating 
the World Map step.
3. Mystling Element
4. Mystling cards: tells you which component to use during 
Random Combats or Roguelite mode.
Corruption and Major Corruption cards
Since the Eclipse, the elements are out of balance – and many wild 
mystlings are corrupted by the intensiﬁed inﬂuence of one or more 
of them. 
Corruption cards make your Combat slightly harder and are used 
to  increase the  power of  weaker Mystlings you encounter dur-
ing the  game by increasing their stats. Major Corruptions work 
in the same way regarding the rules but are only used in 
games.
When you are instructed to “Add X Corruption card to this Com-
bat,” take all Corruption cards, draw the indicated number of them 
at random, and attach them to the Enemy sheet. Corruption cards 
increase the statistics of the Enemy. Shufﬂe used Corruption cards 
back into the deck after Combat.
: During Combat Setup, both in the Adventure Journal, as well 
as on the Tier cards, you will ﬁnd “
 Major Corrption: X”. This 
means that you must ﬁnd a speciﬁc Major Corruption card and at-
tach it to the Enemy sheet. Return the used Major Corruption back 
into the deck after Combat.
Summons
Summons are weaker and simpler opponents used by some Ene-
mies. They are only used by Enemies and never by players’ Mys-
tlings. Even when you Tame an Enemy that uses Summons, you 
simply place Elemental tokens without using the Summon rules. 
Summons are represented by their individual Stat cards and Ele-
mental tokens placed in the Arena.
Summons rules:
You may treat Summons as an opponent for the purpose 
of any effects dealing 
Summons cannot gain any Condition tokens.
Both you and the  Enemy cannot move to  or through 
a space with a Summon.
Summons don’t act on their own – they always follow 
the rules on the Enemy Ability card. 
Only Enemy abilities or Setup rules place the Summons 
in the Arena.
When there is more than one Summon in the Arena, you 
may choose in which order Summons are activated.
Corruptions and Major Corruptions cards do not apply 
to Summons.
SHADOW
Summon
148A
A Summon Stat card. It can be recognized 
by the Summon label above its name.
Condition tokens
Each Mystlings discards 1 Condition token of each type at the end 
of its turn. When you/Enemy deals a Condition token, place the to-
ken on the Enemy/your Mystling sheet. Ignore dealing Condition 
tokens that exceed the Condition token limit.
Burn (max. 5): before Burn is discarded at end 
of a turn, gain 1
for each Burn.
Slow (max. 1): applies to Rush/Retreat/Move. The 
value is reduced to 1 and it cannot be increased by 
modiﬁers.
For example, if an Enemy with 3 
 would “Rush+2” 
while having Slow, it would only move by 1 space. 
Weak (max. 1): Attacks are reduced to 1 and it cannot 
be increased by
modiﬁers.
For example, if your Mystling with 3
would “Attack 
” while having Weak, its Attack value would be 
considered 1. With this effect, it deals 1
 to an oppo-
nent with 0 
Silence (max. 1): Mystlings with Silence cannot use 
Special Abilities and Elemental Bonus actions. The En-
emy with Silence doesn’t resolve its Special ability and 
doesn’t discard cards from its slots.
ADVANCED RULES
The rules below are used in later Scenarios. Read them when you encounter an unfamiliar term for the ﬁrst time.

Combat Quest
These Quests may only be fulﬁlled during Combat. You may only 
fulﬁll the  Mystling Combat Quest when you use the  Mystling 
in Combat.
Conditions to fulﬁll are listed on the front of the card. After Com-
bat, if you fulﬁlled the conditions, ﬂip the Quest card to the other 
side (B). This reveals an exalted version of the Ability or Stat card 
for your Mystling. From this point onward, use that card (Stat or 
Ability) as your Mystling card. Place the  replaced card behind 
the Removed divider.
11B
Exalted
COMBAT QUEST
The Young Alukah is eager to ﬁght, 
but it needs to hone its natural traits instead 
of trying to do everything at the same time.
Each time you resolve the Young Alukah 
Action card, place 1 
resolve
 on this card. Each time 
you resolve a neutral card, discard 1 
ach tim
from this card. 
Have at least 4 4 
 on this card 
at the end of the combat. If you didn’t fulﬁll 
this quest at the end of the combat, 
discard all 
 the en
ll 
 from this card.
When you fulﬁll this quest, ﬂip this card.
11A
Young Alukah
A Combat Quest card and Exalted Young Alukah on the other side 
of this card.
Arena maps and cards
Arena map 05 has an empty space (see below). You and 
the Enemy cannot move or be placed in this space. Tokens 
also cannot be placed in or moved to this space. However, 
you can count range using this space. This space does not 
block in line effects.
Attacking Terrain: some Arena cards place 
tokens that  may be targets of  your Attacks/effects 
that deal 
. You can treat these tokens as opponents 
for the purpose of such effects. These tokens cannot gain 
condition tokens. Damaging Terrain with (Drain) does not 
Heal your Mystling.
For example, if you “Deal 2 
 and Weak to each other 
Mystling (including allies) in any range,” you must dam-
age the tokens but you ignore dealing Weak to them.
Enemy moving through Terrain: when Terrain in the Are-
na is discarded when moving into spaces with it, Enemies 
may move through it following the  standard movement 
rules (Terrain is discarded). However, when the Terrain rules 
state that an “Enemy can’t move to or be placed in a space 
with a  Terrain,” Enemies treat spaces with Terrains as 
blocked and move around it (choosing the shortest path).
In line: some effects may only be used in  lines starting 
from a space with your Mystling. A line is a straight con-
nection of spaces in the Arena. Allies block in-line effects. 
Effects that deal 
 in line, deal it to the closest opponent 
that is in the chosen line. Some Arena card rules may block 
in-line effects. Some effects may tell you to move/Rush 
in line. Resolve these moves following the standard rules, 
but you/Enemy must move in a chosen line.
Young Emberling used a Projectile Action card 
to “Deal 4 
 in any range in line”. The player chooses the line 
as in the example above and deals 4
 to the Windraiser.
CREDITS
Dedicated to the memory of Łukasz Orwat, the best of us. 
May we meet again.
Creative Director: Kamil ‘Sanex’ Cieśla
Game Concept: Kamil ‘Sanex’ Cieśla, Marcin Świerkot
Game Design: Andrzej Betkiewicz, Wojciech Frelich, 
Kamil ‘Sanex’ Cieśla
Roguelite mode: Jan Truchanowicz
Lead Developer: Wojciech Frelich
Tests and Development: Andrzej Betkiewicz, Wojciech Frelich, 
Michał Stachowiak, Adrian Krawczyk, Wiktoria Ślusarczyk, 
Wojciech Zieliński, Jan Truchanowicz
Additional Testing: Paweł Samborski, Tomasz Zawadzki, Michał Lach, 
Ernest Kiedrowicz, Filip Tomaszewski, Paulina Włodarczyk, 
Ariel Kowalski, Szymon Kulka, Michał Plata, Przemysław Wójcik, 
Patrycja Marciniak, Łukasz Jach, Natalia Makówka, 
Zuzanna Banasiak, Franciszek Stępniewski-Janowski, 
Timo Kandolin, Jeffrey Campbell, Diego García, Kristian Levinsen, 
Sean Nyikos, Jeremy Freeman, Cora Freeman, Tymon Hatala, 
Manuel Campos, Jakub Błachut, Marcin Podsiadło, 
Aneta Koperkiewicz, Alicja Wojciechowska, Łukasz Szopka, 
Wojciech Wiśniewski, Michał Gryń, Eryk Nowak, Michał Sprysak, 
Damian Pióro, Tymoteusz Müller, Jacek Wala, Błażej Bernaś,
Adrian Przednowek, Marta Siennicka, Olga Baraniak, Jacek Szczypiński
Rulebook: Wojciech Frelich
Narrative Design: Andrzej Betkiewicz
Writing: Marcin Mortka, Andrzej Betkiewicz
Proofreading & Editing: Dan Morley, Tyler Brown, Matt Click
Art Direction: Patryk Jędraszek, Kamil ‘Sanex’ Cieśla
Graphic Design: Adrian Radziun, Michał Stachowiak, Karolina 
Łaski-Getka, Aleksandra Fajlert, Łukasz Styrna, Michał Lechowski, 
Angelika Kajmowicz
Illustrations: Patryk Jedraszek, Jakub Dzikowski, Pamela 
Łuniewska, Piotr Orleański, Ewa Labak, Magdalena Cieplak, 
Mateusz Michalski, Angelika Kajmowicz, Marta Szudyga, 
Łukasz Cywiński, Krzysztof Piasek, Bożena Chądzyńska
3D Modelling: Piotr Gacek, Mateusz Modzelewski, Michał Lisek, 
Marek Kondratowicz, Mateusz Wajda, Marcin Surma, Medusa Project, 
Ludwik Łukaszewski, 3D Big Prints, Jędrzej Chomicki
DTP: Angelika Kajmowicz, Jędrzej Cięślak, Patrycja Marzec, 
Aneta Koperkiewicz, Rafał Janiszewski
Production: Olga Baraniak, Jacek Szczypiński, Anna Czajka, 
Witold Chudy, Zoﬁa Jerzyńska, Adrianna Kocięcka, Mateusz Wolski, 
Michał Matłosz, Jacek Pyszczek
Game Consultant: Michał Oracz, Krzysztof Piskorski
Special Thanks: Michał Matłosz, Marta Siennicka, Jacek Wala, 
Maciej Guzik-Pałys, Dominika Matłosz, Anna-Lis Wilkosz, 
Ernest Kiedrowicz, Krzysztof Belczyk, Michał Lach, 
Paulina Włodarczyk, Robert Plesowicz, Łukasz Włodarczyk

Ability card................................................................................................... 15
Action card................................................................................................7,18
Advancement..........................................................................................7, 26
Adventure Journal........................................................................................8
Arena:
• card....................................................................................................... 14
• clear......................................................................................................25
• Map ...................................................................................................... 14
Attack............................................................................................................19
Bonus Action........................................................................................19, 20
Booster..........................................................................................................26
Combat rules ..............................................................................................18
Conditions ...................................................................................................32
Corruption ...................................................................................................32
Damage...........................................................................................................9
Deal................................................................................................................19
Decision token..............................................................................................8
Deck Construction....................................................................................... 7
Elemental advantage.................................................................................24
Elemental tokens........................................................................................24
Enemy Ability card..................................................................................... 15
Enemy Attack card.....................................................................................22
Equipment....................................................................................................10
Essence ...........................................................................................................9
Exploration................................................................................................... 12
Fatigue .....................................................................................................9, 22
Heal..................................................................................................................9
Inventory .................................................................................................5, 26
Item...........................................................................................................10, 11
Location map............................................................................................... 12
Lock/Unlock ................................................................................................ 13
Major Corruption.......................................................................................32
Move..............................................................................................................18
Mystling Encyclopedia..............................................................................25
Mystling tray.................................................................................................. 7
Passive...........................................................................................................18
Power........................................................................................................9, 20
Quest........................................................................................................ 6, 33
Random Combat.................................................................................25, 32
Range.............................................................................................................18
Saving the game.........................................................................................26
Setup .........................................................................................................5, 16
Scenario..........................................................................................................5
Combat.........................................................................................................16
Silver................................................................................................................9
Special Ability.............................................................................................. 15
Stat card........................................................................................................ 15
Status Sheet...................................................................................................8
Summons .....................................................................................................32
Taming ..........................................................................................................25
Target ............................................................................................................22
Taunt..............................................................................................................19
Terrain .....................................................................................................14, 33
Test..................................................................................................................11
Tier card........................................................................................................32
Time............................................................................................................... 13
Upgrade........................................................................................................18
World Map...............................................................................................5, 26
INDEX

• Begin the Exploration close the Adventure Journal 
and start exploring the  Location map (see Location map 
rules). Used when you enter a new area on the Location map.
• Choose one select one of the presented options and 
resolve its effect. Read all of  the  options and their out-
comes before making a decision. You cannot choose an op-
tion if you don’t fulﬁll its requirement given in parenthesis.
• Continue the Exploration close the Adventure 
Journal and continue Map Exploration.
• Discard Secret card X return the correct Secret 
to the Secret deck. If the Secret you are discarding wasn’t 
revealed (it was face down), do not reveal it. Keep the cards 
in the Secret deck in ascending order.
• End the Exploration discard all components from 
the Location map and close the Location book.
• Gain Equipment draw the top card from the Equip-
ment deck and place it in front of you. You may have up 
to 2 Equipment cards at the same time – when you gain 
Equipment while already having 2, you must use or discard 
one of them immediately.
• Gain Fatigue take 1 Fatigue card from the box and 
add it to the Action deck of one of your Mystlings. You may 
choose which Mystling gains it by placing Fatigue cards 
in  their Mystling compartment. If  there are no Fatigue 
cards left, gain 5
 instead.
• Gain Item draw the top card from the Item deck and 
place it in front of you. If the Item deck is empty, shufﬂe 
the discard pile and create a new Item deck. Some Items 
must be used immediately. You may have up to 3 Items 
at the same time – when you gain an Item while already 
having 3, you must use or discard one of them immediately.
• Gain 
 take
and place it in a chosen Mystling’s com-
partment. You may decide how to divide gained 
between 
your Mystlings, unless the Adventure Journal instructs you 
otherwise. Each Mystling may have a maximum of 10
• Gain 
 take 
 and place it in a chosen Mystling’s 
compartment. You may decide how to divide gained 
between your Mystlings, unless the  Adventure Journal 
instructs you otherwise. You cannot choose a  Mystling 
to gain 
 if that would result in reaching or exceeding 
. If both Mystlings have too many 
, ignore any 
excess 
• Gain Secret card X ﬁnd the correct Secret in the Se-
cret deck, read its instructions, and place it in front of you. 
If the card is a map fragment (it’s called an overlay), place it 
on the Map so that it matches the illustration. There is no 
limit to the number of Secrets you may have at one time. 
If you already have the mentioned Secret, ignore it.
• Gain the “Y” part X status take the Save sheet 
and mark part X of “Y” status. If you already have the men-
tioned status, ignore it.
f h
Save sheet with a marked “Empathy” part 2 status.
• Go to Script X open the Adventure Journal on a page 
with the mentioned Script and follow its instructions. Once 
you enter a script, you must follow all its instructions.
• If you have an X Mystling sometimes the Ad-
venture Journal checks which Mystlings accompany you 
(only those in the Mystling tray count for these checks). 
For example: “Gain 6
 (if you have a 
 Mystling, gain 3 
instead).” It means that you gain 6
but if you have a 
Mystling (in the Mystling tray) you only gain 3
• Open Map X ﬁnd the correct Map in the Location 
Book and place it in the play area.
• Perform the  Test and check the  result 
below resolve the  Test following the  Test rules (see 
page 11).
• Place token A in slot X / Place token B 
in slot X place an Adventure token showing its A or 
B-side in the corresponding slot on the Map. Don’t move 
tokens already on the Map unless instructed otherwise.
• Place X in front of you take the mentioned com-
ponent (e.g., an  Elemental token) and place it in  front 
of you, next to your Secret cards and Items.
• Place X in the Mystling tray place the men-
tioned component in  one of  the  compartments. Until 
the  end of  the  current Scenario, this component is as-
signed to the Mystling in that compartment.
Note: There can be more components in the Mystling 
compartment than Mystling cards and Action cards: 
Power markers 
 , Damage 
, and more.
 move the Time token one space down. If the Time to-
ken was on the lowest space, place it on the Secret card 
at the  bottom of  the  Time track instead. When you are 
instructed to
and the Time token is on the Event card, 
ignore that time progression.
• Set 
to X place the Time marker red or blue 
side up in the mentioned Time track slot.
ADVENTURE TAGS

These are the keywords on Action cards, Ability cards, and Enemy 
Ability cards. They apply to both you and the Enemy. They are also 
listed on the Help cards.
• Attack if  the  opponent is in  range 1 of  the  attacking 
Mystling, deal 
 equal to the attacker’s 
. Reduce this 
 by the opponent’s 
 to a minimum of 0. When an ef-
fect allows you to Attack more than one opponent (e.g., 
“Attack each opponent that is in a 
, or 
 space 
in any range.”) resolve the Attacks one by one in the order 
of your choice. 
Note: Some effects may modify the  range or value 
of your Attacks. 
For example, if the card tells you to “Attack +1 
 in range 
2” it overwrites the Attack rules described above and allows 
you to resolve an Attack on an Enemy in range 2. Additional-
ly this Attack deals 1 more 
• Blink X place a  Mystling standee in  an  empty space 
in range X. This is not considered as Move. The Slow token 
does not affect Blink. An Enemy might Blink toward you 
or away from you. Resolve it similarly to the Rush/Retreat 
rules (the Enemy wants to end closest/farthest from you).
• Cleanse X discard X Condition tokens from a Mystling 
sheet. A Burn 3 token counts as 3 separate tokens. Cleanse 
allows you to discard any type of Condition tokens. Cleanse 
Weak/Slow/Silence/Burn only allow you to discard a spe-
ciﬁc Condition token.
• Deal X
 in  range Y if  the  opponent is in 
the  mentioned range, deal 
 equal to  the 
 value. 
Reduce it by the  opponent’s 
 to  a  minimum of  0. 
For  effects that  state “For  each (…) deal X
” add 
all 
 together and then reduce it once by the  oppo-
nent’s 
. When an effect allows you to deal to more 
than one opponent (e.g.,  “Each opponent gains 2
for each Quake 
 in range 2 from them.”) resolve deal-
ing 
 one by one in an order of your choice. Some ef-
fects may state that “Opponent gains X
…”. Treat such 
effects as equal to dealing 
 for the purpose of all rules.
• Discard X discard a speciﬁc component. If you have 
fewer than X of the component, discard as much as you 
have. When an effect tells you to discard more than one 
card, you decide in which order to discard them (except 
for Interrupt). When you discard more than one card from 
the top of your deck you must resolve it one by one, start-
ing with the topmost card.
For example, “Discard 2 
 ” means removing 2 
your the Mystling sheet and placing it in the 
 pool.
• (Drain) Attacks and effects that deal 
 with (Drain), 
Heal your Mystling by the  value of  the  ﬁnal 
 done 
to the opponent. However, you may not Heal 
 that ex-
ceeds the opponent’s 
. You cannot Heal from (Drain) by 
attacking Terrain.
For  example: “Deal 3
(Drain).” Your opponent 
has 1 
 left. It gains 3
 , but you only Heal 1.
• Gain You may gain 
, Elemental tokens, Condition 
tokens, and 
. To gain X , place that many on the Mys-
tling sheet. 
 or 
 does not affect gain 
 effects. 
When you gain Elemental tokens (e.g., “Gain 1 Ice 
”), 
place that many Elemental tokens on your Mystling sheet. 
You cannot gain Elemental tokens above your token limit, 
in such a case ignore the gain effect. When you gain 
or Condition token, place them on your Mystling sheet. 
, treat is similarly to dealing 
 to you 
and reduce it by your 
• Heal X discard X
 from your Mystling sheet. If the En-
emy has Heal X, discard that many X
 from the Enemy 
sheet.
• Move check the Mystling’s 
 value and move to an ad-
jacent space up to X times (where X is your value 
). You 
move the Mystling one space at a time, but in one Move 
action you may move several spaces. Some effects dur-
ing the game may modify Move. When you are instruct-
ed to “Move +1
” consider your movement value to be 
1 greater for this movement.
resolve Enemy effects after this icon only if  your Mys-
tling (
: the Enemy’s current Target) has an Element 
that matches the shown icon (this also applies to second-
ary Elements). 
Resolve your Action card effects after this icon only 
if the Enemy has an Element that matches the shown icon 
(this also applies to secondary Elements).
• (Pierce X) this effect ignores X of  the  opponent’s 
Example: Attack (Pierce 3), ignores 3 
 during the Attack. 
• Range the maximum range of an action/effect. Actions 
and effects may always target spaces that are closer than 
the maximum range.
• Resolve when you resolve a card, you must follow all 
instructions on it from top to bottom, left to right. After 
you resolve all the effects on a card, place it on the discard. 
A currently resolved card can never be affected by any oth-
er card (it cannot be discarded, Triggered, etc.). In some 
situations, you resolve more than one card at a time (e.g., 
when you Trigger a card). In such situations, both the card 
that caused the Trigger and the Triggered card are consid-
ered “being resolved” and cannot be affected by any other 
effects.
• Retreat Enemy Retreat is resolved in  a  similar way 
to your Mystling’s Move. During Retreat, the Enemy always 
moves to a space farthest from you (i.e., a space that is 
the  highest range from you), using the  lowest number 
of possible moves. When an Enemy Retreats and they are 
already in the farthest reachable space, they don’t move. 
If there are several spaces meeting those conditions, you 
may choose to which of the spaces the Enemy Retreats.
• Remove card from play if this is an Action card, 
place this card back in behind the Unlocked cards divider 
– you may use it again in subsequent Scenarios. If it is a Fa-
tigue card, return it to the Fatigue deck.
• Rush Enemy Rush is resolved in  a  similar way to  your 
Mystling’s Move. During Rush, the Enemy always moves 
to a space closest to you (i.e., to end within range 1 of you 
if possible), using the lowest number of possible moves. 
When an  Enemy Retreats and they are within range 1 
of you, they don’t move. If there are several spaces meet-
ing these conditions, you may choose to which of the spac-
es the Enemy Rushes.
• Search X look at the top X cards of your deck, choose 
1 and place it on top of the deck. Then place the rest at 
the bottom of the deck in any order. If your deck has fewer 
cards than the Search value, look at as many cards as you can 
(do not reshufﬂe your deck).
• Slot X if this card is in slot X, you resolve an additional 
effect. Cards resolved outside of your track (e.g., by using 
the Acceleration Air Elemental Bonus Action) are consid-
ered not to be in any slot and their slot value is considered 0.
For example: the card has the effect: “Gain 1
. Slot 3: 
Gain 2
.” If this card is in slot 3, you get 1
 and then 
also 2
• Spend X when you spend X, you must have that amount 
of X. If the instructions tell you to “Spend 2
 to Trigger” and 
you only have 1
, you cannot activate this effect.
• Interrupt X discard the X rightmost cards from the op-
ponent’s track (starting from the  highest numbered 
slot with a  card). In rare situations, Interrupt may cause 
the player to have 0 cards in step 2 of their turn. In this case, 
the player’s turn immediately ends.
• Trigger Trigger may only be used once per turn. Ignore 
all Trigger effects after the  ﬁrst one. When you Trigger, 
resolve another card from your slots (do not gain 
from its slot) and discard it. Then, end resolving the card 
that caused the Trigger and discard it. When the Enemy 
Triggers, ﬂip the Enemy Attack card that caused the Trig-
ger face down then resolve the topmost Enemy card fol-
lowing all the standard rules (the Special Ability only re-
solves once, after resolving Trigger). 
Both Enemy and your Triggers may only be resolved 
: When an  Enemy Triggers, its target may 
change. This also applies to  the  Special Ability as it 
checks the current target. 
COMBAT TAGS