Contents
108 cards, divided in to two decks:
 
64 Adventurer cards 
 
(5 suits, numbered 1 through 12; 
 
4 Lucky Ladybugs)
 
42 Dragonwood cards
 
2 Turn summary cards
6 custom dice
Overview
You are adventurers on a journey through the enchanted forest of Dragonwood. Play cards to 
earn dice, which you will roll to defeat a fierce array of creatures, or capture magical items that 
may help you along the way. Whoever earns the most victory points wins.
Setup
 Remove the 2 turn summary cards and then split the rest of the cards into two decks according to 
 card back. 
 Sort through the Dragonwood deck (green back) and note that there are three different types 
 of cards: Creatures (green background), Enhancements (purple background) and Events 
 (orange background). See “Card Types” for more details about each.
 Find the 2 dragon cards (Orange and Blue dragons) and remove them from the deck. 
 Shuffle the rest of the deck and randomly remove the number of cards based on the number 
 of players. (Place them back in the box.) 
 
 
 
2 players = 12 cards
 
 
 
3 players = 10 cards
 
 
 
4 players = 8 cards
Shuffle the dragon cards back into bottom half of the remaining deck. 
2-4 players | Ages 8 & up
How to Play
The last player to hike into the woods goes first and play continues to the left.
On your turn, you may either Reload (draw 1 Adventurer card) or Capture (play cards from your 
hand try to capture one of the cards in the Landscape).
RELOADING
If you choose to draw an Adventurer card, add it to your hand and signal that your turn is over 
by saying out loud, “Reload!”
Note: There is a 9 card hand limit. If you have 9 cards and choose to reload, you must 
discard a card after drawing to keep your total at 9. 
Lucky Ladybugs – If you draw a Lucky Ladybug card, immediately discard it and 
draw 2 more cards.
If the Adventurer deck runs out, shuffle the discard pile to start a new deck.
 Reveal 5 cards from the Dragonwood deck face up in the center of the playing area to form 
 
 the Landscape. Stack the rest of the deck face down next to it. (Note: If you reveal any Event 
 cards, shuffle them back into the deck and deal new cards.)
 Shuffle the Adventurer deck (red back) and deal each player 5 cards. (Keep your cards in your 
 hands, secret from opponents.) Stack the rest of the Adventurer cards face down above the 
 
 Dragonwood deck.
 Place the 6 dice and turn summary cards within easy reach of all players.
A G A M E O F D I C E & D A R I N G
RULES OF PLAY
TM
Adventurer 
Discard
Dragonwood 
Discard
LANDSCAPE
Dragonwood deck card types
CREATURES
Creatures make up the bulk of the Dragonwood deck, as the 
aim is to defeat them and collect their associated Victory 
Points. (For example, a Grumpy Troll earns 4 victory points). 
Victory Points are shown in the bottom left shield, and capture 
strength is listed next to icons on the right. (The sword is for 
a Strike, the boot is for a Stomp, and the face is for a Scream. 
See “Capturing Cards” for more details). Some Creatures are 
easier or harder to defeat, depending on the method. (For 
example the Gooey Glob is very difficult to beat with a Strike 
and Fire Ants are easier to beat with a Stomp.)
ENHANCEMENTS 
Enhancements do not give victory points but make it easier 
to defeat Creatures. (For example, the Silver Sword allows you 
to add 2 points to any Strike.) Unless otherwise indicated, 
Enhancements stay with you for the remainder of the game 
and can be used every turn. You may also have several 
Enhancements at the same time. Amounts required to 
capture an Enhancement are shown in the same way as for 
Creatures and attempts to capture occur in the same way. 
EVENTS
Events occur immediately and affect all players. Read the 
instructions on the card and then remove it from the game. 
Replace the Landscape with another Dragonwood card. 
For example, in a Thunder Storm, every player must 
discard 1 Adventurer card. After everyone discards 1 card, 
the Thunder Storm card is placed in the Dragonwood 
discard pile and the landscape is replenished to 5 cards.

Game by Darren Kisgen
Illustration by Chris Beatrice
CREATURES
If you defeat a Creature, take the card from the landscape and place it face 
down in a “victory” pile next to you. Place all the Adventurer cards you used 
in the discard pile. 
However, if your roll doesn’t beat the Creature, it remains in the Landscape. 
As a penalty, you must discard 1 card from your hand as a “wound” for not 
defeating it. (Take the rest of the Adventurer cards back into your hand.)
ENHANCEMENTS
If you capture an Enhancement, take the card and place it face up in front of 
you. This card can then be used throughout the rest of the game (or only once, 
if specified on the card). 
Place all the Adventurer cards you used in the discard pile. Like with Creatures, 
if your roll does not match or beat the total on the Enhancement card, you must 
discard 1 card from your hand.
Capturing Notes:
 Enhancements may not be used to capture other Enhancements.
 You may always use a single card, which earns you 1 die. 
 (In this case you may count it as either a Strike, Stomp or Scream.)
 You may only try to capture 1 Creature or Enhancement per turn.
 You may roll a maximum of 6 dice at any time. 
REPLENISHING THE LANDSCAPE
If you capture a card, place another card from the Dragonwood draw pile into the 
Landscape (unless no more cards are left). If you draw an Event card, read and 
follow the instructions immediately, and then discard the card. Draw another card to 
bring the Landscape back up to 5. This ends your turn.
Ending the Game
The game ends with either of these scenarios:
1. Both dragons have been defeated, 
 
 
or 
2. Two Adventure decks have been played through. 
(In 
(In this case, every player gets one more turn.) 
All players total up the victory points on their captured creatures. 
Then compare the amount of creature cards each player captured. 
Whoever has the most gets a bonus of 3 victory points (Ties get 
2 victory points each). The player with the highest total wins. 
In case of an overall tie, the winner is whoever 
captured the Orange Dragon.
VARIANTS
Dragon Spell: In addition to striking, stomping or screaming at the two dragons in the game, 
you can try to defeat them with a Dragon Spell. 
Here’s how it works: If you collect 3 Adventurer cards that are both all the 
same color and consecutive numbers (for example: red 3, 4, 5), you may 
discard them to earn 2 dice (instead of 3). If you roll a 6 or higher, 
you defeat the dragon. Otherwise you must discard one card as a wound. 
Note that this spell can only be played to defeat dragons.
 
Shorter game: Remove more cards from the Dragonwood deck before playing.
Longer game: Remove fewer cards from the Dragonwood deck, and/or play until both dragons 
have been defeated. 
Simple setup: Play with the entire Dragonwood deck. Game ends after two Adventure decks 
have been played through, or when the last Dragonwood card is revealed, whichever comes first.
A Word from Gamewright
It may be hard to imagine, but Dragonwood, with its vast array of richly illustrated cards, 
started out looking very different than where it ended. 
Inventor Darren Kisgen submitted a prototype without 
a single illustration – just simple words and numbers 
written in marker on blank white cards. 
Well apparently that’s all was needed, 
because within moments, our play testers 
were enraptured with the simple-to-learn 
but deeply engaging fantasy-themed game. 
Illustrator Chris Beatrice beautifully captured 
the wit and humor depicted in Darren’s words 
to create one of our most visually appealing 
fantasy-themed games.
CAPTURING CARDS
There are three ways to capture a card from the Landscape: Strike, Stomp, or Scream:
Announce which Creature or Enhancement you are trying to capture and show the cards you 
are using (including any Enhancements) by placing them face up in front of you. (For example, 
“I’m going to Stomp on those Fire Ants.”) Then, take one die for each card you played and roll 
them. (For example, if you played a 4 card Stomp you would roll 4 dice.)
Next compare the total on the dice you rolled (plus any Enhancements you may have) to the 
value listed on the card required to defeat the Creature or capture the Enhancement. The number 
by the sword indicates the value required for a Strike, the boot indicates a Stomp, and the face 
represents Scream. You capture the card if the total of your dice is equal to or greater than the 
related value on the card.
STRIKE
STOMP
SCREAM
that are in a row, 
regardless of color.
that are all the 
same number
that are all 
the same color
/IUM[NWZ\PM1VÅVQ\MTa1UIOQVI\Q^M
70 Bridge Street, Newton, MA 02458 
tel: 617-924-6006 
e-mail: jester@gamewright.com
www.gamewright.com
©2015 Gamewright, a division of Ceaco, Inc.
All worldwide rights reserved.
friend & follow!
Example
Total = 9
Would capture the 
card with a Stomp, 
but lose with a 
Strike or Scream
facebook.com/gamewright 
twitter.com/gamewright 
youtube.com/gamewright
VICTORY 
POINTS
STRIKE
STOMP
SCREAM