Rulebook

Goal of the game and victory conditions 
Drako is a two-player only game where one player will lead a team of three 
dwarves against another player’s dragon. The dwarf player must defeat the 
enemy dragon before all dwarf cards have been played. Each dwarf has their 
own skills and appearance (see Dwarf player mat and abilities, p. 10).
The second player directs the dragon, whose purpose is to survive through the 
dwarf player’s time limit. If the dwarf player is out of cards, the dragon escapes 
and wins the game. It is also possible, though rare, for the dragon to win by 
defeating all the dwarves.
Before the game, players decide (randomly or by preference) which side each 
will play. If this is your first game of Drako, note that the dwarves are slightly 
easier to play.
Game components:
ϠϠ 1 board,
ϠϠ 25 wound markers,
ϠϠ pieces for the dwarf player:
→1 dwarf player mat,
→1 deck of 38 dwarf cards,
→1 fury marker,
→1 net marker,
→3 dwarf figures.
ϠϠ pieces for the dragon player:
→1 dragon player mat,
→1 deck of 38 dragon cards,
→1 dragon figure.

game preparation
Before the first game, gently punch out the markers.
Place the board in the middle of the table 1 , with wound markers nearby 2 
so that both players have easy access to them.
The dragon player sets up the dragon pieces — the player mat goes in front of the 
player 3 , the dragon figure goes on the middle hex of the board 4 , and the 
dragon cards are shuffled and placed face down in a stack 5 . They then draw 
4 cards from the deck and look at them — this is their starting hand 6 .
The dwarf player sets up the dwarf pieces — the player mat goes in front of the 
player 7 and the dwarf cards are shuffled and placed face down in a stack 
8 . They then draw 4 cards from the deck and look at them — this is their start-
ing hand 9 . 
The net and fury markers should be placed near the dwarf player mat 10 .
If you are playing for the first 
time, place the dwarf figures as 
shown in the picture 11 . In sub-
sequent games, the dwarf play-
er, after looking at their start-
ing hand, may place the dwarf 
figures on any of the board hex-
es not adjacent to the dragon — 
depending on the player’s strat-
egy plans.
Advanced rule: If you want 
to have more control over the 
game, each player may ex-
change their entire starting 
hand once, before play begins. 
The first starting hand is shuf-
fled back into the deck, then 
4 new cards are drawn.

Game sequence
Players take their turns one after the other, starting with the dragon player. 
On the first turn, the dragon player performs only 1 action.
In all subsequent turns, players perform 2 actions. Therefore, the dragon player 
performs 1 action, then the dwarf player performs 2 actions, then the dragon 
performs 2 and so on — both players perform 2 actions until the end of the 
game.
The possible actions are:
ϠϠ draw 2 cards,
ϠϠ play 1 card.
Actions may be done in any order and each action may be repeated. For exam-
ple, a player may choose to play two cards on their turn and not draw any. Play-
ers must perform two actions — passing an action is not allowed.
Near the end of the game, it is possible for the dragon to run out of cards before 
the dwarf player. In this case, the dragon player must pass each remaining turn 
until the game ends.
However, if the dwarf player runs out of cards, the game ends immediately and 
the dragon player wins.
Drawing 2 cards
The player draws two cards from their deck and adds them to their hand. A play-
er may never have more than six cards. If the player has more than six cards 
after taking this action, they must immediately discard down to six.
Playing 1 card
The player plays a card from their hand and chooses to use one of the options 
presented symbolically in the upper left corner of the card.
After playing a card, discard it from the game.
Most of the symbols allow a move or an attack, as described on following pages.

Move
When playing a card for movement, the player moves one (or more) of their fig-
ures up to as many hexes as the card’s movement value, the number next to the 
symbol. Not all movement points must be used, nor all figures moved; it is even 
possible to not move at all, though the card is still discarded.
A player cannot move their figure through a space containing another figure.
Attack
When playing a card for attack, the player attacks with one (or more) of their 
figures for as much damage as the card’s attack value, the number next to the 
symbol.
If a player plays a card for attack, the opponent may immediately respond by 
playing a card with a defense symbol as a free action. This fully blocks the at-
tack against one of their figures, regardless of the attack value.
If the attack is successful (not blocked), the target figure takes damage — place 
as many wound markers as the card’s attack value onto the owner’s player mat. 
If a dwarf is attacked, the wound markers go onto that specific dwarf’s 
space on the player mat. 
The dragon player mat has four different areas where 
wounds may be placed. The four upper spaces are 
the dragon’s armor and must be filled before 
any of the other three areas (representing 
the dragon’s abilities). All subsequent 
wound locations are chosen by the 
dwarf player. If an ability area is full of 
wounds, the dragon may no longer use 
that ability (see Dragon player mat and 
abilities, p. 9).
After all of a figure’s spaces are wounded, 
the figure is killed and removed from the 
board.

Symbols on the dwarf cards
1 dwarf moves
1 dwarf can move up to as many hexes as the card’s movement value. 
2 dwarves move
1 or 2 dwarves can move, each up to as many hexes as the card’s move-
ment value. 
1 dwarf attacks
1 dwarf adjacent to the dragon can attack the dragon, using the card’s 
attack value. The attack can be blocked by a defense card.
2 dwarves attack 
1 or 2 dwarves adjacent to the dragon can each attack the dragon 
simultaneously, each using the card’s attack value. The dragon can 
play 1 or 2 defense cards to block 1 or both attacks. This card can also 
be used by 1 dwarf.
Defense 
This can block a single attack by the dragon, regardless of its attack 
value.
Shoot with Crossbow
If the dwarf with the archery ability is in a straight line of hexes with 
the dragon, with no other dwarf between them, then the dwarf can 
shoot the dragon using the card’s attack value. The attack can be 
blocked by a defense card.
Net 
The dwarf with the net ability may immobilize the dragon. The dwarf 
can do this from anywhere on the board by adding the net marker 
next to the dragon figure. While netted, the dragon cannot move or fly 
(but may still attack, defend, and draw cards).
To escape the net, the dragon player must spend 2 actions in a single 
turn, effectively passing their turn. When the dragon is released, the 
net token is returned to the dwarf player for later use.
The net cannot be blocked by a defense card.

John draws 
2 cards for his 
first action, then 
plays a card. 
He chooses 
the “2 dwarves 
moveˮ symbol 
with movement 
value 1. 
He moves two of 
his dwarves one 
hex each toward 
the dragon.
1 On a later 
turn, John plays 
a card with the 
“Crossbow 
attack” symbol. 
His dwarf with 
the archery abili-
ty is in a hex row 
with the dragon, 
so he can shoot. 
2 Kate, the 
dragon player, 
plays a de-
fense card in 
reaction to this 
attack, so the 
dragon re­ceives 
no wounds.
3 For his second action, John plays another card and 
chooses the “2 dwarves attack” symbol with attack value 1. 
Kate has no more defense cards, so both attacks succeed — 
the dragon receives 2 wounds.

 Symbols on the dragon cards
Move 
The dragon can move up to as many hexes as the card’s movement value 
(if the dragon can walk — see Dragon player mat and abilities, p. 9).
Flight 
The dragon can move to any empty hex on the board (if the dragon can 
fly — see Dragon player mat and abilities, p. 9).
Attack 
The dragon can attack an adjacent dwarf, using the card’s attack val-
ue. The attack can be blocked by a defense card.
Fire attack 
The dragon breathes fire in a straight line of hexes (if the dragon can 
breathe fire — see Dragon player mat and abilities, p. 9). If there are any 
dwarves in the line of attack, each of them receives wounds equal to the 
card’s attack value. This attack can be blocked by one or more dwarves us-
ing one defense card per dwarf.
Defense 
This can block a single attack by a single dwarf, regardless of its 
attack value.
Kate chooses to 
play two cards 
on her turn. 1 
First, she chooses 
a “Move” symbol 
with movement 
value 2. 
She moves 
the dragon two 
hexes to get into 
a better attack 
position and out 
of the archer’s 
line.
2 For her second card, she chooses “Fire attack”. Because 
2 dwarves are standing in the line of attack, they can both be 
wounded. 3 However, John has one defense card, which he 
uses to block the attack on one of the 2 dwarves. The other 
dwarf receives 2 wounds.

Dragon player mat and abilities
The dragon player mat has spaces for wound markers received during play. The 
first 4 wounds are placed on the top 4 spaces — these have no direct effect. Later 
wounds are assigned by the dwarf player to specific abilities — Flight, Move-
ment, and Fire breathing.
After all of an ability’s spaces are wounded, the dragon cannot use that ability 
anymore. After all of the dragon’s spaces are wounded, the dragon is defeated 
and the dragon player loses the game.
Flight 
While unfilled, the dragon 
may use the Flight symbol 
on the cards. This allows the 
dragon to fly to any hex on 
the board.
Fire breathing 
While unfilled, the drag-
on may use the Fire Attack 
symbol on the cards. This 
allows the dragon to attack 
all dwarves in one direction 
for the attack value next to 
the symbol.
 
Movement 
While unfilled, the dragon may use the Move symbol on the cards. This 
allows the dragon to move a number of hexes equal to the movement 
value next to the symbol.

Dwarf player mat and abilities
The dwarf player has three unique characters with different abilities. During the 
game, wound markers will be placed on the corresponding spaces of the dwarf 
who was attacked.
Each dwarf has a different number of wound spaces. If all of a dwarf’s spaces are 
wounded, the dwarf is killed and removed from the board. If all 3 dwarves are 
killed, the dwarves are defeated and the dwarf player loses the game.
Fury 
Once during the game, the dwarf player may use the fury ability. The 
dwarf with this ability receives 1 wound (the player places the wound 
marker on a wound space for the given character). In exchange, the 
player may use an additional action (3 actions instead of 2 this turn). 
The additional action does not have to be performed by the same 
dwarf — it may be performed by any of them. After the action, the 
player removes the fury marker from the game — they cannot use the 
ability again.
 
Archery 
Allows this dwarf to use 
a card with the Cross-
bow Attack symbol. He 
shoots his crossbow if in 
the same hex line as the 
dragon, with no dwarves 
between them.
 
Throw a Net 
Allows this dwarf to use 
a card with the Net sym-
bol to immobilize the 
dragon.

Game end
The game can end in 3 ways:
ϠϠ The dragon is killed — the dwarf player wins.
ϠϠ The dwarves are killed — the dragon player wins.
ϠϠ The dragon is still alive after the last dwarf card is played — the dragon 
player wins. 
Author’s notes
Drako is an asymmetrical game. Playing the dragon is different from playing 
the dwarves. The dragon should certainly not enter battle too eagerly, as it 
could end badly for him. The dwarves, meanwhile, should use the net throwing 
ability and fury. It is also important to use the cards wisely. The dwarf player 
must remember that they lose when their cards run out, and the dragon player 
must be careful not to use up their cards too early while the dwarves still have 
cards to play, because that is dangerous.
Adam Kałuża
Game rules: Adam “Folko” Kałuża 
Illustrations and graphic design: Jarek Nocoń 
Developer: Maciej Teległow 
Rules text: Artur Jedliński 
Tests: Paweł Gorczyński
English translation: Anna Skudlarska 
	
	
 & Russ Williams 
Editing: Rebel team
© 2019 Publisher REBEL.pl
Rebel Sp. z o.o.
ul. Budowlanych 64c 
80-298 Gdańsk, Poland
wydawnictwo@rebel.pl
www.wydawnictworebel.pl