Drop Zone
Vertical board
Base
Levels
2 Bottom-edge pieces 
(double-sided)
4 Side-edge pieces 
(2 with colors and 2 
with shapes)
4 Score markers
(1 in each color)
A game for 2-4 players or 2 teams, ages 8 and up
 CONTENTS
There are 
3 circles, 
2 squares, 
2 diamonds, and 
2 triangles in 
each color.
9 Red shapes
9 Yellow shapes
4 x +25/+50 
Point tokens 
(1 in each color)
9 Blue shapes
9 Green shapes
Scoring track
 OVERVIEW
Choose a shape. Drop it in the drop zone. If your shape doesn’t break any rules based on where it landed, then you 
earn points based on how high it landed and if it is touching bonus circles. Players take turns dropping their shapes 
until all of the shapes have been dropped. Then, the player with the most points wins!
8 Jokers (see p. 4) (2 in each color)

Four players:
Each player gets one complete set of 
shapes in one color, and the matching 
score marker and point token.
Three players:
Each player gets one complete set of 
shapes in one color, and the matching 
score marker and point token. In 
addition, divide up the shapes of the 
unused fourth color as shown.
Two players or two teams: 
Each team or player gets two complete 
sets of shapes, one matching score 
marker, and both matching point tokens.
	 	
SET UP
SHAPES
1. Place the base in front of you so 
that the letters A and D are on 
the left side, and B and C are on 
the right side.
For the base game with the colored side-edge pieces. 
2. Hold the vertical board so that the letters A 
and D are on the left side, and B and C are on 
the right side.
3. Carefully slide the vertical board into the 
channel in the base from the left side of the 
base. Make sure that the letters in the four 
corners of the vertical board and base match: 
A with A, B with B, C with C, and D with D. 
4. Lay the bottom-
edge pieces into 
the recesses in 
the base with their 
colored sides facing 
up. Make sure the 
letters match.
5. Slide the colored 
side-edge pieces 
down into the slots 
on the sides of the 
vertical board. Make 
sure the letters 
match.
6. Place the game board in the middle of the table so everyone can reach. Place the scoring track next to the game 
board. Set your score markers on the large yellow starting space.
Note: You do not need the two side-edge pieces with shapes, or the jokers, for the base game. See page 4 for variants.

1. Choose 
one of your 
shapes.	
2. Drop it 
in the drop 
zone.
3. Check to make 
sure your shape 
didn’t break any 
landing rules.
4. If you didn’t break 
any landing rules, 
figure out how many 
points you scored.
5. Move your score marker 
forward on the scoring track 
according to the number of 
points you scored. 
v
vii
vi
i
ii
iii
iv
v
 GAME END
As soon as all of the players have dropped their final shapes and assessed any points earned with them, the game 
is over. The winner is the player with the most points! Don’t forget to factor in your “+25” or “+50” point tokens. 
In case of a tie, all of the tied players are the winners.
• POINT TOKENS: If you earn more than 25 points, place your point token with the “+25” 
side face up on the scoring track space of the matching color. If you earn more than 50 
points, flip your point token so the “+50” side shows. In a two-person or team game, 
use your second point token if necessary.
 GAME PLAY
LANDING RULES
These rules apply to the final resting position of your 
shape after you drop it and it stops moving.
• SHAPE: 	
any shapes that are the same shape i . 
• COLOR: 	
any shapes of the same color ii .
• EDGE: 	
any edges of the drop zone that are 
marked by symbols of the same color 
iii or shape iv printed on the side-edge 
pieces or bottom-edge pieces. 
(Note: This rule only pertains to the edges of the 
drop zone, not the entire area of a level or the entire 
column area above a bottom-edge symbol.)
• HEIGHT: 	
Your shape is not allowed to be sticking 
out above the top of the drop zone (at the 
top of the vertical game board) v .
If you break one or more of the landing rules, you earn 
no points for that shape.
SCORING POINTS
• LEVEL POINTS: Determine the highest level in which 
your shape landed. You earn the number of points 
equal to the level number. 
	 For example, a shape in level 3 earns 3 points v , 
and a shape in level 5 earns 5 points vi .
• BONUS POINTS: Determine if one or more of the 
bonus circles on the game board is covering a part of 
your shape. If so, you earn bonus points according to 
the size of the bonus circle vii .
	 • Large bonus circle: 	
1 point 
	 • Medium bonus circle: 	 2 points 
	 • Small bonus circle: 	
3 points
	 In the example below, the blue square is touching 
only a yellow edge and a red triangle. It did not break 
any landing rules. Therefore, it earns 5 points for 
landing (at least partly) in level 5, and 2 bonus points 
for overlapping a medium bonus circle, for a total of 7 
points.
The player who most recently had a birthday begins. Players take turns dropping one 
of their shapes into the drop zone. When it’s your turn, do the following five steps. 
Then, it’s the turn of the player to your left. Proceed in this way, in clockwise order.

692834-02-030718
• Teams 
Divide up into two teams. The members of Team 1 and Team 2 
always alternate turns. If the two teams have different numbers 
of players, make sure that each player on a team always gets 
the same number of turns as the other team members. Each 
team chooses one score marker for the entire team, which is 
always advanced when any team member scores points. If it is 
your turn, select any shape from your team’s shape supply and 
drop it into the drop zone. Then check for broken landing rules 
and assess any points earned. Team members are allowed to 
advise each other. If you are playing with jokers, discuss with 
your fellow team members whether or not you want to use a 
joker.
• Shape 
When setting up, take the two side-edge 
pieces with the shapes and the two 
bottom-edge pieces with their sides 
showing the shapes facing up and insert 
them so that the letters match. Again, 
make sure that all of the letters match 
up. You will not need the two side-edge 
pieces with the colors. When checking 
the edge landing rules, you will now 
have to pay special attention to the 
shapes along the edges, instead of the 
colors.
• Easy: Without Edge Pieces 
	 • When setting up, use just two side-edge pieces (shape 
or color) but no bottom-edge pieces. Again, make sure 
that the letters match up.
	 • When checking, you may ignore all of edge landing 
rules. In this version, the only role of the side-edge 
pieces is to make it easier to count the points for the 
levels you reach. This makes the game much easier.
• Jokers 
	 • When setting up, in a three-player and four-player 
game you will get two 
joker tokens in your color. 
In a two-person game or 
team game, you will get 
just two jokers (one in each 
of your two colors).	
	 • If you determine that you 
have broken a landing rule (or more than one), you can 
spend one of your jokers, which allows you to get the 
full point allocation as if you hadn’t broken any landing 
rules at all. Each joker can be spent only once.
	 • Unused jokers are worth three points at the end of 
the game.
The Authors: 
Now that he has retired, Uwe Rapp will be able to spend even more time inventing games. He is married and has two 
children. Bernhard Lach is an attorney in Heilbronn, Germany, and is married with three children. After over 25 years 
together in the Marbach chess club, the two decided to try inventing some games of their own. With their game ideas 
developed as a team, as a counterbalance to their more contemplative games of chess, they always look for simple 
but clever game concepts with an emphasis on fun. Drop It is their latest game published by Kosmos.
Authors: Bernhard Lach & Uwe Rapp 
Editing: Michael Sieber-Baskal 
Graphic Design: Fiore GmbH | www.
fiore-gmbh.de 
3D Design: Andreas Resch
English Translation: David Gamon
English Text Editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire 
Additional Design: Dan Freitas
The authors and Kosmos thank everyone who participated in testing the game and reviewing the rules.
© 2017, 2018 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0 	
Web: kosmos.de
© 2017, 2018 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames 
& Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
Printed in China / Imprimé en Chine
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872 	 Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK 
LP, Cranbrook, Kent, TN17 3HE 
Phone: 01580 713000 	 Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
 
VARIANTS
In each case, play the game as usual, but with the changes described for each variant.
Notes: 
• When it’s your turn, you may turn the game board toward you. But be careful. Don’t change the positions of the 
shapes in the drop zone by mistake!
• Points are assessed during your turn — in other words, immediately after you have dropped your shape. If the 
position of your shape changes after this point assessment, it will not affect your score! Points cannot be taken 
away once earned!