Rule Book
A game by Kevin G. Nunn 2-4 Players Ages 8+ 20-40 minutes

Overview
Bathtub rubber ducky racing has long been a popular sport. Every year rubber duckies from 
all walks of life train in bathtubs, spas and small ponds around the world to prepare for the 
annual Kenducky Derby, the premier bathtub ducky race. 
Each round, choose a movement card from your hand. When it is your turn, race your ducky 
according to the directions on the card.
Be the first ducky to touch all the buoys and reach the finish drain to win!
Contents
4 Rubber Duckies 
1 Bird Dog 
1 Bird Dog Control Token 
10 Two-Sided Game Board Tiles 
12 Buoy Tokens (4 of each in 3 colors) 
54 Ducky Movement Cards 
17 Circular Action Tokens
NOTE: Each game contains a random assortment of duckies. Visit apegames.com for more 
information on all of the duckies, additional game board ideas, puzzles and more!

Beginner Rules
Setting Up
The bird dog and the circular action tokens are not needed in the beginner’s game. Leave 
them in the box.
1. 
Players agree on a game board from those shown at the end of these rules and use the 
tiles to make the board. It is suggested that players select a beginner’s board for the 
first race.
2. 
Place the hex-shaped buoy tokens beside the board by the respectively-colored 
buoys on the board.
3. 
Shuffle the ducky movement cards and deal three to each player.
4. 
Each player draws one more card and shows it to everyone. Beginning with the 
player who drew the highest number and proceeding around the table clockwise, 
everyone selects a rubber ducky that they will use for the race and places it on an 
empty starting space. When you place your ducky, be sure that it is clearly facing 
one of the sides of the space, not one of the corners.
5. 
Once everyone has placed their ducky, they discard the fourth card they picked up to 
place their ducks. The race begins!
The Race
The race is played over a series of rounds. Your goal is to be the first to visit all three of the 
buoys and then reach the drain.
Ducky Movement
At the beginning of each round, players chooses a card from their hand to move 
their duckies.
Take a look at your cards. The cards show a number in the top left corner. It also 
shows a purple arrow and a group of hexagons with red arrows and green arrows.
The number on each card is the order in which duckies move, from lowest to highest.
The purple arrow represents the direction your ducky is facing at the beginning of its 
 Starting Space
You must move your ducky all 
of the spaces indicated on the 
card you chose, if possible. As 
you’ll see later, it’s possible that 
movement can be halted by hitting 
another ducky, or the board’s edge.
If your ducky finishes its movement on a 
buoy space, you get to play another card 
and keep going. Note that you don’t get 
this bonus if your ducky moves over the 
buoy but does not end its turn there.

move.
The blue hexagon represents the space where your ducky starts its turn. Red arrows show 
the moves your ducky makes from space to space.
Green arrows show the possible directions your ducky may face when it finishes moving.
Secretly pick a card from your hand and place it face down in front of you. Once everyone 
has selected a card, simultaneously flip and reveal them.
Begin with the player that selected the lowest numbered card. That player moves their 
ducky by following the picture on their card.
If your ducky finishes its movement on a buoy space, you get to play another card and 
keep going! (See the Buoy Spaces section for details).
Once the ducky with the lowest number finishes moving, the player with the next lowest 
number moves his ducky. Continue in this way until everyone has moved their ducky.
Players then draw enough cards to refill their hand back up to three cards.
Keep playing rounds, selecting cards, revealing them and using them to move your 
ducky until someone wins the race!
Movement Examples
Example 1: In the picture above, Sparky (the fireman ducky) wishes to go around 
Cookie (the sailor ducky). He plays card 36. The red arrows on this card indicate 
Sparky should move forward one space, turn to the left and go one space, and then 
turn to the right and go one space. At the end of this movement, the green arrows 
indicate that Sparky may face either to the right or to the left. He chooses to face 
Movement Tip:
At first it can be difficult looking 
at the movement card to figure 
out how your ducky should 
move. It’s okay to put your 
card on the table facing the 
same direction as your ducky, 
with the purple arrow facing 
away from your ducky. With the 
card on the table, facing in the 
direction of your ducky, you’ll find 
that movement is a snap!

right and ends his turn.
Movement Cards with Two Paths
Some movement cards show two or more paths. If you play one of these cards, you may 
follow any one of the paths shown on the card – it’s your choice!
Example 2: Sparky is again facing Cookie and wishes to go around him. He plays card 
42. This time, the red arrows indicate Sparky should go forward one space, turn to the 
left or to the right and go one space. Sparky chooses to turn to the right and go one space. 
Next, the green arrow gives him no choice but to turn left and end his turn.
Ducky Bonking
Sometimes, your ducky’s path will make it collide with the edge of the board, another ducky 
or the drain before you have all three buoy tokens. When this happens, the move ends 
immediately.
Leave your ducky in the space it was in when it bonked another duck or ran off the 
board. Spin your ducky around, with its back to whatever it bonked.
Example: Yikes! This time, Cookie moved first and got in Sparky’s way! Sparky 
played card 52 which would have led him down the path shown by the red arrows. 
But this path runs him straight into Cookie! Sparky stops when he tries to move 
into Cookie’s space, turns around in place and ends his turn.

Buoy Spaces
There are three buoy spaces every ducky must touch before heading for the drain.
The first time your ducky passes over or ends its movement on any one of the three target 
buoy spaces, take a matching buoy token and put it in front of you.
If your ducky finishes its movement on a buoy space, you get to keep going! Immediately 
play another card from your hand and follow its movement diagram. You may continue 
moving as long as your ducky finishes movement on a buoy space. If you should happen to 
run out of cards doing this, draw the top card from the deck.
Moving Into a Start Space
Once the game begins, the start spaces on the board become short-cuts, teleporting 
your ducky from one to another.
If your ducky moves into one of these spaces, pick it up and place it in any empty start 
space you wish; you may even choose to put it back in the same space. Choose which 
way it faces.
Once you’ve chosen a start space and facing for your ducky, its move is over, even if it 
hadn’t completed the movement on its card.
The Drain
The drain is the finishing space. You win the race when your ducky moves into that space 
after touching the three buoy spaces.
If your ducky has not touched all three buoy spaces, it may not enter the finish drain space. 
Your ducky will be bonked just as if it had run into the edge of the board if it tries to enter the 
drain space (see Ducky Bonking above for details).
Winning the Game
The first ducky to reach the drain space after touching all three buoy spaces wins. It is 
not necessary that your ducky end its turn on the drain space – the game ends as soon 
as the ducky moves into the space.
Your duck must touch all three 
buoys, in any order.
You only get a buoy token when you 
touch the buoy for the first time.
If you move onto a start space, 
immediately jump to an empty 
start space, facing whichever 
direction you choose. Your 
ducky’s move stops there.
Duckies may not enter the drain space 
until it first touches all three buoys.

Advanced Rules
Uh-oh! Here comes the bird dog! Watch out for him – he chases the other duckies around 
because he hates to see them having fun! If he runs into your ducky, the bird dog will knock 
it for a loop!
What can a ducky do to fight back against this rascal? Well, for starters you get a special token 
every time you reach a new buoy!
The sections below detail differences from the Beginner Rules.
Advanced Game Setup
1. 
Several advanced board designs are shown at the end of these rules. Assemble 
the tiles into any board you wish or make up a new board that is all your own. 
2. 
Each player takes one round blue action token. Any remaining blue tokens will 
not be needed. Return them to the box.
3. 
Shuffle the other round bonus action tokens face down and place them on the 
table next to the game board.
4. 
Place the hex-shaped buoy tokens beside the board by the respectively-colored buoys 
on the board.
5. 
Place the bird dog on the table next to the game board.
6. 
Shuffle the deck of ducky movement cards and deal four to each player.
7. 
Each player secretly selects a card from their hand and simultaneously reveals it. 
Beginning with the highest number and working around the table in decreasng 
order, everyone selects a ducky that they will use for the race and places it on 
any empty starting space. Once everyone has done so, discard these cards and 
begin the race.
Like the basic game, players draw enough cards at the end of the round to refill 
their hand back up to three cards.
Here Comes the Bird Dog!
In the advanced game, the bird dog moves after all of the other duckies move.
Selecting a starting player in 
the advanced game is slightly 
different than the basic 
game. In the advanced 
game, players are dealt 
four cards and must select 
one from the four to use 
for initial ducky placement. 
This allows you some degree 
of strategy, as you can decide 
which card in your hand will 
be least useful for your ducky’s 
movement. You can also select your 
card to give you the best initial ducky 
placement.
Bird Dog Control Token

The bird dog is controlled by the player who is furthest behind in the race. This is the 
player who has collected the fewest buoy tokens. If there is a tie, it is the player among 
these who played the movement card with the highest number that round.
The player controlling the bird dog places the bird dog control token in front of himself.
Controlling and Moving the Bird Dog
If the bird dog is not on the board, put him in the finish drain space and face him any 
direction you wish.
There are two different ways to move the bird dog. You may move him with a card from 
your hand or by drawing two cards from the top of the deck. If you move him with a card 
from your hand, simply play a card, move the bird dog according to the card and draw a 
new card to replace the card used.
If you draw two cards from the deck, reveal them to all players. Then move the bird dog 
according to the instructions on the cards. You may choose either card to move first.
If the bird dog ends movement on a buoy, it remains there. It does, however, teleport off 
preservers.
Bird Dog Bonking
The bird dog does not bonk off the finish drain space. If he moves into it, pick him up and 
put him next to the game board. He’ll come back next round.
The bird dog chases away any duckies that bonk into him.
The bird dog does not bonk off other duckies, but instead continues moving through them.
If the bird dog moves into (or through) your ducky, the player moving the bird dog gets to put 
your ducky in any empty lifesaver start space.
When your ducky bonks into the bird dog while moving, your turn ends immediately. The 
player with the bird dog control token puts your ducky in any empty lifesaver start space.
Whether you bonk into the bird dog or the bird dog bonks into you, it is your decision 
which way to face your ducky once he has been placed in a lifesaver start space.
Action Tokens
Each time your ducky reaches a buoy for the first time, draw one of the face down 
action tokens in addition to the matching buoy marker.
Action Tokens
Draw 3 cards, 
then discard 3 
cards. Every 
player begins 
the game with 
one of these tokens. Play at 
any time.
Keep going. 
Play one 
additional card 
immediately after 
you finish moving 
your ducky.
Move one space forward, 
then face forward or 
one facing to either 
side. Play on your 
turn before or after 
moving your duck.
Rotate your 
ducky to face 
any direction 
you wish. Play 
just before you play 
your movement card.
+1

Keep each of your action tokens face down until you are ready to use it. When you use 
an action token, show it to everyone and put it in the box. It is not used again during 
this game.
Advanced Game for 2-3 Players
When two or three players play the advanced game, each player controls two duckies. 
Players are dealt five cards and select one of the cards to determine their starting spot, like in 
the Advanced Rules. When placing ducks, go around the table twice, starting with the player 
with the highest card and placing one duck each turn. Players then play the game with a 
four-card hand, selecting a card for each duck and replenishing to 4 cards at the end of 
the turn.
Keep track of each ducky’s progress separately. Also, action tokens are pooled by 
the player and can be used on either duck. The Draw3/Discard3 token rules do not 
change.
The winner is the owner of the first ducky to reach all three buoys and get to the finish 
drain space.
Variant Rule
Bonking off an unexpected duck can be brutal in this game. It can take two or even three 
turns to get back on track, particularly if you’re on an advanced board. Here is a rule variant 
we suggest for players who’d like a more forgiving experience: immediately after revealing 
their cards for the round, any player who wishes to do so may immediately discard his 
or her card to turn their ducky to face any direction they wish rather than moving this 
round.
Credits
Design: Kevin G. Nunn	
	
Art: Jeremy Kupsch 
Graphics Design and Layout: Carolyn Dew	 Production: Kevin Brusky 
Production Assistance: Amy Pike	
Editing: Diane Allen
Action Tokens (cont.)
Your ducky 
and the bird 
dog trade 
places - 
both position and facing. The 
bird dog must be on the board. 
Play just before you play your 
movement card.

Advanced Boards

Moderate Boards

Beginner Boards
Sample Game Boards