Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 DUEL IN THE DARK
Pub: 	
©2007 Z-Man Games
Page 1: 	 Rules summary front	
Page 2: 	 Rules summary back
Page 1: 	 Baby Blitz Rules summary front	
Page 2: 	 Baby Blitz Rules summary back
v2
Apr 2010
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
Setup
Choose the number of nights the game will last.
One player is the British player and the other is the 
German player.
The British player takes 1 bomber piece, 1 Mosquito 
piece, 37 compass cards, 6 target/bomb markers and  
the British VP summary card.
The German player takes gets 4 fuel indicators, 4 
fighter squadron pieces, 40 ground resource markers 
(GRMs) and the German VP summary card.
Place the red marker on the 0 space of the Victory track.
Game Sequence
Phase 1: Place the German Fighters
The German player places the fighters squadrons on 
any 4 German airfields, 1 squadron per airfield (2 can 
start on an airfield where a fuel truck is stationed).
Phase 2: Determine the weather
The British player draws a weather card and 
distributes weather elements as shown on the card.
Phase 3: Planning the British attack
The British player secretly chooses the British airfield 
his bomber will take off from, a target city and a 
British airfield to land.
Target cities are designated as green (easy), moderate 
(yellow) or difficult (red) targets.
The British player secretly programs the bomber’s 
course with a maximum of 14 compass cards; green 
cards for the trip out and red cards for the return trip. 
The cards are then placed back facedown on the pile 
of unused cards.
Phase 4: Set up the German defense resources
The German player places his 40 GRMs in any hexes 
except hexes 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 16, 17 and 23; as 
many in each hex as he desires.
Phase 5: Place the British bomber and Mosquito
The British player places his bomber and Mosquito 
on the airfields chosen in Phase 3. They cannot start 
from the same airfield. 
Phase 6: Execute the attack and defense
1.	 British Mosquito moves
2.	 German Fighter Squadrons move
3.	 British Bomber moves
Players repeat these steps until every airplane has 
landed, and the night is over.
Victory Points
Victory Points (VPs) are only gained in combat. Combat 
only occurs when opponents meet in a hex as follows:
1. 	A fighter squadron moves into the hex of the 
Mosquito. The Mosquito attacks.
2. 	The bomber moves into a hex with flak or fighter 
squadrons. The German player attacks.
3. 	The bomber reaches the target city hex.  
The bomber attacks.
The VP marker is moved in the direction of the 
country winning the points.
The British Mosquito
The Mosquito ignores wind direction, has an unlimited 
range, and can fly 1 or 2 hexes per move in any 
direction or circle in the same hex.
It cannot be attacked by German flak.
The Mosquito can fly at any altitude when it first moves 
and can change altitude between moves.
If the Mosquito is flying low, it suffers -1 VP when 
dueling fighter squadrons.
If a fighter squadron moves into the hex of the 
Mosquito: The British player gets 1 VP for every 
fighter squadron, to a maximum of 2 squadrons.
If the Mosquito is in the same hex as a German 
airfield: The British player gets 1 VP if a squadron 
takes off from that airfield (2 VP if it stays in the hex).
Bombs and Target Markers
The British player receives 6 target/
bomb markers per night that can be 
used by the Mosquito in any hex it 
moves into, in any combination.
Over the target city, each target 
marker dropped gives the British 
player +1 VP when the bomber 
strikes.
The Mosquito must fly low to drop bombs as follows:
On an airfield, each bomb gives the British player +1 
VP when a squadron lands or takes off from the airfield. 
On GRMs, a bomb destroys the GRM for the rest 
of the night. Civil bunkers cannot be destroyed. If 
a balloon barrier is destroyed, the German player 
receives no VP for that barrier.
The German Fighters
Each fighter squadron has a playing piece and a fuel 
card of corresponding color.
In each German turn each squadron may move once 
to any adjacent hex.
Fuel Cards
Fuel is adjusted after each move by decreasing the 
fuel amount by 1, 2 or 3 lines.
Normal usage is 2 lines per move.
In a headwind (directly opposite to the wind 
direction), usage is 3 lines per move.
In a tailwind (same direction as the wind for the entire 
move), usage is 1 line per move, or 2 hexes with 2 lines.
A fighter squadron can circle in the same hex at the 
same altitude for 1 line.
If fuel is at 0 after a move, the squadron must land at 
an airfield in the same hex on its next turn, or ditch. 
A fighter squadron may voluntarily land at an airfield 
at any time, from any altitude, to refuel and take off 
again next turn.
Altitude
Fighter squadrons may raise or lower their altitude by 
one step after each move.
When taking off, a squadron may move into an 
adjacent hex at low altitude.
If a squadron stays in the starting hex it may move to 
high altitude for 2 lines of fuel usage.
When a fighter squadron flies lower than the bomber, 
the German player gets -1 VP for that combat.
Ditching
Ditching over Germany: the British player gets 2 VP, 
and the squadron cannot start again this night.
Ditching over Britain or at sea: the British player gets 4 
VP, and the squadron is lost for the rest of the game.
Winning
The player with the most VPs after completing the 
agreed number of nights wins. 
A night ends when all planes land (the bomber and 
Mosquito cannot land at the same airfield). Planes 
can land from any altitude.
Alternatively, players can play 2 nights with the same 
weather conditions, switching sides.
v2
German Defense Resources
Each night, all resources except civil bunkers may be 
rearranged.
Basic Resources
Flak
German: Each time the bomber is in the 
same hex as flak: +1 VP.
Radar
German: Radar in the same hex as 
the bomber and any fighter squadrons: 
+1 VP per squadron.
Searchlight
German: For each searchlight in the 
same hex as the bomber and flak: +1 VP.
Any squadrons in the same hex as a 
searchlight: +1 VP per searchlight.
British: -1 VP per searchlight over the 
target city. 
Advanced Resources
Balloon Barrier
German: If the Mosquito bombs a hex 
with a balloon barrier: +1 VP per balloon 
barrier.
British: If the bombing Mosquito targets 
a balloon barrier, the German player 
receives no VP from it.  
Civil Bunker
British: -2 VP per civil bunker in the 
target city. 
Fire Department
German: Fire departments may only be 
positioned in cities. Those up to 2 hexes 
away from the target city may be called 
into the target city, in which case 2 of 
them neutralize one British hit.
British: -1 VP per fire department in the 
the target city. 
Fuel Truck
German: 2 fighters squadrons can start 
and land on an airfield where a fuel 
truck is stationed. For every additional 
truck another squadron may land. 
Smoke Screen
British: -1 VP per smoke screen 
obscuring the target city. 
For every smoke screen in a hex, the 
Mosquito must drop an extra bomb marker 
to take out an airfield or ground defense 
resource there. It cannot be bombed.
The Weather
Clouds
German: -1 VP per fighter squadron vs. 
bomber.
British: -5 VP from target city’s value if 
under clouds. 
Mosquito: -1 VP against squadrons.
Thunderstorm
German: -2 VP per fighter squadron vs. 
bomber.
British player +1 VP when a fighter 
squadron takes off or lands in a 
thunderstorm.
British: -7 VP from target city’s value if 
under a thunderstorm.
British player -2 VP if the bomber flies 
through a thunderstorm. 
Mosquito: -2 VP against squadrons.
Fog
German: British player +1 VP when a 
fighter squadron takes off or lands in fog.
British: -3 VP from target city’s value 
if in fog.
-1 VP if the bomber takes off in fog.
-2 VP if the bomber lands in fog.
Full Moon
German: +1 VP per fighter squadron vs. 
bomber.
British: +3 VP to target city’s value if 
during full moon.
Mosquito gains +1 VP total against 
fighter squadrons.
New Moon
British: -3 VP from target city’s value if 
during new moon.
Summer
German: +1 VP per fighter squadron vs. 
bomber from the 8th compass card on.
British: After the 8th Bomber move the 
Mosquito gains +1 VP total regardless of 
the number of squadrons in the hex.
Advanced Rules
More Power for the Mosquito
The Mosquito receives 8 target/bomb markers, but the 
bomber loses 2 VP in an attack against the target city.
Weather Changes During the Game
The point at which the weather changes is written on the 
Weather card. Insert a Change of Weather card before the 
indicated move in the set of programmed compass cards. 
When it is revealed, draw a New Weather card to 
determine the new direction of the wind, and move all 
other weather elements (including fog) 2 hexes in this 
new direction. Weather elements that leave the board are 
placed back on the opposite side of the board.
Program Changes 
After Weather Changes
The bomber is allowed to change targets and attack 
another city. When the weather changes, the British 
player may replace all subsequent compass cards and 
plot a new course, using a number of cards equal to 14 
minus the number of moves already resolved.
If it is not possible to reach a new target, the original 
target must be attacked.
After Hitting the Target
The bomber is allowed to change its flight home after 
hitting the target. Same restrictions as above.
Medals
Medals can be carried over from one night to the next, 
cannot be used on the same turn they were received, and 
are discarded after being used.
Receiving Medals
German: Every time the bomber flies in the same hex as 
3 or 4 squadrons the German player gets 1 or 2 medals.
British: Every time the bomber encounters no fighter 
squadrons the British player gets 2 medals, except on 
the first and last moves.
Using Medals
German: After the fighter squadrons have moved into a 
hex they can place 1 or more medals there. If combat 
occurs there between the bomber and 1 or more 
squadrons the German player gets +1 VP per medal. The 
medals are then removed whether combat occurs or not.
A medal may be spent to reduce the fuel use of a fighter 
squadron by 1 line. Usable once per night.
A medal may be spent to repair a destroyed airfield or 
GRM.
British: After the bomber has moved, the British player 
can then destroy a radar, flak or searchlight in the same 
hex for each medal spent.
The Mosquito can use medals as bombs or target 
markers; only on the same move it drops bombs/target 
markers. The number of medals used cannot exceed the 
number of bombs/target markers dropped.
Medals may be spent to reduce the VPs gained by the 
Germans in an attack from fighter squadrons (1 per VP). 
This cannot be done in a hex with German medals.
Corpse Cloth
If a bomber is in a cloud hex with 2 or more searchlights, 
the effects are doubled. For a fighter squadron to get the 
bonus, both squadron and bomber must be at high altitude.
Flak Disturbs Fighters
For every flak more than 1 in a hex, the squadrons lose -1 
VP (figure out VP without flak first, then subtract penalty).
Special Fuel
The German player using this marker may enable 1 
fighter squadron to fly 2 hexes once a night. Fuel is 
spent normally (eg 4 lines to move 2 hexes). After usage 
flip the marker to its empty side.
Setup
If there are more than 2 players, one British player 
controls the bombers and the other the Mosquitos; 
one German player controls 3 fighter squadrons and 
the other the He177 bomber and V1s.
During each night there will be 2 British attacks on 
German cities, the Main Raid (MR) and the Spoof 
Raid (SR). The German player can attack up to 4 
different cities with the He177 and 3 V1s.
The German player takes gets 5 fuel indicators, 5 
fighter squadron pieces, 1 He177 piece, 28 compass 
cards, 1 Bombs Away card, 3 V1 pieces, 50 GRMs, 
and the German VP summary card.
The British player takes 2 bomber pieces, 2 Mosquito 
pieces, 47 compass cards, 1 Split card, 12 target/
bomb markers (6 per Mosquito), 12 GRMs, 2 spoof 
raid markers, and  the British VP summary card.
Game Sequence Per Night
Phase 1: Place the German Fighter Squadrons
The German player places his fighter squadrons on 
any 5 German airfields, 1 squadron per airfield (2 can 
start on an airfield where a fuel truck is stationed).
Phase 2: Place the British Bombers, Fighters, and 
secretly position the German Bomber (He177), V1s
The British player places his bombers and 
Mosquitos on any 4 British airfields in the same 
way as the Germans. Hex 23 has 2 airfields and can 
accommodate 2 squadrons.
The German player secretly positions the He177 and 
the 3 V1s on the map by recording them on the Raid 
Plotting Sheet. The He177 can be placed on any 
continental airfield (even in the same airfield as a 
fighter squadron; this does not require a fuel truck), 
and the V1s on any continental hex that contains 
substantial land (all 3 may be placed in the same hex).
Phase 3: Determine the weather
The British player draws a weather card and players 
distributes weather elements as shown on the card. 
The Quarter Moon as no effect; do not place a marker 
on the compass in hex 10.
Phase 4: Planning the British and German attacks
The British player secretly chooses which of the 
2 British bombers will be the Main and the Spoof 
Raids, their starting airfields in Great Britain, their 
target cities and a British airfield in which to land.
Target cities are designated as green (easy), moderate 
(yellow) or difficult (red) targets.
The British player secretly programs his course with a 
maximum 14 compass cards; red cards for the trip out 
and green cards for the return trip. The cards are then 
placed back facedown on the pile of unused cards.
One British bomber must take off on the first turn; 
the second may delay up to 4 turns using delay cards 
in its compass card deck.
Once either raid has been intercepted by a German 
fighter squadron, the British player turns over his tail 
fin markers to reveal which is the Main and which is 
the Spoof Raid. 
Phase 5: Set up the British and German Ground 
Resource Markers (GRMs)
The British player places his 12 GRMs and the German 
player positions his 50 GRMs in any way desired.
On any following night, both players may redeploy any 
of their GRMs except German civil defense bunkers.
Phase 6: Place the German bomber, V1s
The German player places the He177 and V1s in the 
hexes secretly selected in Phase 2. 
Phase 7: The Game Turn
1.	 British Mosquitos move
2.	 German Fighter Squadrons move
3.	 British Bombers move
4.	 German Bomber (He177) moves
5.	 V1 moves
Repeat these steps until every airplane has landed, 
and the night is over.
Altitude & Movement
Airplanes can be placed in 3 positions on their stand: 
at game start and landing (bottom); or during flight at 
low altitude (middle) or high altitude (top).
On its first move, the British and German bombers 
can climb to low or high altitude. Then all bombers 
on a side must fly at the same altitude for the entire 
night. V1s fly at low altitude only.
If a British bomber attacks a targeted city from a low 
altitude the British player receives +4VPs. However, 
German flak gets +2VPs in addition to the normal 
1VP per hit and the fighter squadrons do not have to 
expend as much fuel getting to high altitude.
If the He177 attacks a targeted city from a low altitude 
the German player receives +2VPs. However British AA 
gets +1VP in addition to the normal 1VP per hit. 
Mosquitos can move from low to high and vice versa 
from turn to turn, but may not fly at 2 different 
altitudes in the same turn.
The Uhu may move up to 2 hexes in any directions, 
but must pay fuel coss for each hex in which it moves.
A V1’s take off move is to come to the top of its 
stand, which is considered low altitude (this does not 
count as a hex move). It cannot be interecepted by 
British GRMs this turn. A V1 may move up to 2 hexes 
in any directions.
Compass Cards
The British player may delay the take-off of 1 Bomber 
by using the Delay cards. 
The British may use the Split card to specify where a 
single joint Raid separates.
The Delay and Split cards do not count towards the 
maximum 14 cards for each British bomber.
The He177/V1s may be delayed up to 4 turns as well.
The He177
The He177 does not have red/green compass cards. 
It may take off from any airfield on the continent but 
must land at the first airfield it encounters on the 
return trip, using compass cards like the British player.
The He177 may delay up to 4 turns (the Delay cards 
do not count towards its maximum of 8 cards). 
Place the Bombs Away card into the deck before the 
card that moves the bomber over the target city.
Splitting Raids
If the British player plans to split the bomber raids 
later in the game, a single bomber is placed on a 
British airfield and a single deck of compass cards is 
used until the separation of the 2 bombers. 
The separation turn is indicated by the Split card in 
the compass card deck. From that point onward the 
second bomber is placed in the appropriate hex and 
the 2 bomber flight paths diverge, using separate 
compass cards to plot all further movement. 
While in a single stream, the German player scores 
normally vs. the bomber. German interceptions can 
only determine which is the Main or Spoof raid after 
the single stream splits.
The Main and Spoof Raids cannot target the same city. 
Victory Points
Victory Points are gained and lost from air combat, 
fire from flak/AA, and bombing the target city. 
1. 	The Mosquito moves. No scoring.
2. 	The German fighter squadrons move.  
The Mosquito(s) score vs up to 2 German  
fighter squadrons.  
The Uhu scores vs. up to 2 Mosquitos.
3. 	The British fighters move.  
The German fighter squadrons score vs. each 
British bomber.  
The German GRMs score vs. the British bombers.
The British bombers score vs. the target city.
	 	 If 2 bombers occupy the same hex, both the 
German fighter squadrons and GRMs score against 
the Main and Spoof Raids.
4. 	The German bomber/V1s move.  
Each Mosquito scores vs. the He177 or single V1. 
The British GRMs score vs. the He177/fighter 
squadrons or a single V1. 
The He177/V1 score vs. the target city.
Other scoring (eg landing/taking off in a fog, moving 
through a thunderstorm. etc) occurs immediately.
The VP marker is moved in the direction of the 
country winning the points.
Special Scoring Rules
Fighter vs. Fighter Combat
All Mosquitos and the Uhu are permitted to attack  
2 enemy fighters and 1 bomber in a single turn.  
No combat occurs if they are at different altitudes.
German: -1 VP to the Uhu’s score if 2 Mosquitos are 
in the same hex.
British: -1 VP if a Uhu is in the same hex as a 
Mosquito. If 3 German fighter squadrons, including an 
He219, are in the same hex as a Mosquito, the British 
player may choose not to attack the non-He219 planes 
and not suffer this VP penalty.
Fighter vs. Bomber/V1 Combat
A single Mosquito may score against only 1 German 
He177/V1 in each turn. 2 Mosquitos may attack up to 2 
different He177/V1s in the same hex.
The Mosquito can only score vs. the V1 at the same (low) 
altitude.
Only 2 German He177/V1s may strike a city in the same 
turn, but the same city may be hit by further raids in 
subsequent turns.
Bomber Scoring
German: +1 VP for every turn the He177 evades British 
interception (except in the turns it takes off and lands). 
The He177 may not fly over a German airfield to fly 
deeper into the continent. If the He177 takes off or 
lands from a bombed airfield, it is penalised in the 
same way as fighter squadrons.
British: -1 VP per plane for German interceptions of the 
Spoof Raid. 
The Spoof Raid scores 7VP vs. any target city (subject 
to reductions for fog, clouds and thunderstorms). Once 
the target city has been bombed, the Spoof Raid is 
removed from play.
Once a V1 strikes its target it is removed from the game.
Ground Resources Markers (GRMs)
Quad Flak
German: 1 VP only vs. the Mosquito 
at low altitude before any bombs are 
placed in that hex. May be bombed by a 
Mosquito, but scores before it is bombed.
Acoustic Mirror
No medals may be used to place a flak 
or searchlight in the same hex as an out 
of action mirror.
British: -1VP. May be bombed by a 
Mosquito.
Railroad Flak
Set up with the non-firing side faceup. 
May be moved once per turn when the 
German fighter squadrons move. 
German: 1VP if the Main Raid passes 
over railroad flak; the flak is turned 
over and may no longer move. May be 
bombed by a Mosquito.
British Radar
British: +1 VP (vs. V1s) / +2 VP (vs. 
He177) for Mosquitos in the same hex.
Searchlights
British: +1 VP for 1 Mosquito vs. fighter 
squadrons/He177 and/or 1 AA (British 
flak) vs. the He177/V1.
Hex 56
In hex 56, if the British place a GRM in Weymouth and 
the Germans place a V1 on the continent, when the 
V1 takes off it comes up to low altitude and may be 
intercepted by Mosquitos but not any GRM in Weymouth.
If the V1 attacks Weymouth on the following turn, any 
GRMs there score against it. If the V1 moves to another 
hex, any GRMs in Weymouth may score against it before 
it enters the new hex.
Optional Rules
Increased Number of Players (up to 8)
British players remain the same (one controls the 
bombers, one controls the Mosquitos). 5 German players 
control a fighter squadron each and one controls the 
He177 and V1s. Whichever side scores the most points 
at the end of the game is the winner.
Hidden British Setup
The British player may set up the bombers and 
Mosquitos secretly; they are place on the board in Phase 
6 with the German He177 and V1s.
Reduced Scoring on the Spoof Raid
If games show the Spoof Raid to be too vulnerable to 
German GRMs, players may eliminate any scoring of 
GRMs on the Spoof Raid.
Abort Mission
If the Spoof Raid is costing the British player VPs, he 
may abort it and remove it from the map on the turn 
after it crosses the continent.
Alternately, the British player can plan the Spoof Raid 
to move 3 hexes and then return to England, completing 
the turn in the same manner as over the target city hex.
In either situation, the Spoof Raid does not score 7VP as 
it has not bombed a target city.
Alternate Fuel Use for the He219
If either of these optional rules is used, the Uhu’s 
maximum fuel is 10 not 12.
a. 	The Uhu is charged 1 fuel line less for the second hex 
moved, with a minimum of 1 full line.
b.	The Uhu is charged 1 fuel line for the second hex 
moved, no matter the direction travelled.
Use of the Raid Plotting Sheet
All bombing raids, and use of special items (like 
Window), can be marked on the Raid Plotting Sheet; 
no Compass cards need to be used.
Alternate Scoring for the Mosquito/British GRMs
The Mosquito may choose and attack up to 3 German 
air assets in any hex during one turn. British GRMs may 
attack all German assets that enter their hex. 
No German Bombing Restrictions
The German player may bomb any British city with as 
many assets as possible. All V1s and the He177 may 
coordinate their attacks on one British city in one turn.
Increase the Value of the Spoof Raid
increase the Spoof Raid’s value to 9VPs (the Raid must 
still strike its target city to score these VPs).
Increase the Value of the He177
Increase the VPs for bombing a British city by +2VP.
Window/Wilde Sau
The British player may decide to use Window prior to the 
German setup by secretly selecting a Window card.
During any turn the British player may choose to use 
Window. When the British player plots his flight path, he 
places the Window card in the deck immediately before 
the card that would determine movement for that turn. 
During play, he will turn over the Window card followed 
by the compass card; the use of Window will take place 
in the hex into which the bomber is moving. 
The British player may use one Window card per night; 
it counts toward the 14 card maximum.
Once the British player has announced he will use 
Window, the German player may deploy 1 Wilde Sau 
marker facedown on any airfield; it does not count 
towards the night fighter limit at that airfield. 
The WS may attack the Main Raid or Spoof Raid at any 
time along its flight path, as well as over the target city. 
Turn over the WS  marker and move it to the interception 
hex in the same phase as the other German night fighters. 
It may move up to 2 hexes, ignoring wind direction.
The effects of using Window are:
German night fighters lose -1VP in the hex in which 
Window is used. Radar is rendered useless and scores no 
points. Searchlights do not give extra VPs to flak. Each 
searchlight does give +1VP to individual fighters on a 
one for one basis. 
Window is ineffective in a thunderstorm.
Wilde Sau score points as follows: 
2VP base score; +2VP if over the target city; +1VP for 
full moon; +1VP for summer; +1VP per searchlight (not 
in the target hex; counts for only one WS); -2VP for 
clouds. 
Once the WS marker is used, it is removed from play. 
The WS can intercept the bomber in the target hex 
without restrictions. It may intercept the bomber in a 
non-target hex if there is a full moon or there is at least 
one searchlight in the hex.
Searchlights allow the WS to intercept and score points 
against the bomber outside of the target hex, but do not 
add to the WS score in the target hex. WS do not earn 
extra points for the acoustic mirror.
WS may not intercept the bomber in a thunderstorm. 
WS taking off from bombed airfields do not score points 
for the British player. WS are not affected by Window if 
both are in the same hex. 
There is no interaction or scoring between the WS and 
the Mosquito.
Optional Rules for Multiple Night Play, 2 night variant: 
On the first night the British may use up to 2 Window 
cards. 
On the second night the British do not use Window and 
the German player(s) may use 2 WS markers.
Three night variant:
On the first night the British use up to 2 Window cards. 
On the second night the British use up to 1 Window 
card; the German player(s) may use one WS marker. 
On the third night the British may not use Window cards; 
the German player(s) may use two WS markers.
