RULEBOOK
A G A M E O F C O N Q U E S T, D I P L O M A C Y & B E T R AYA L
T HE S P IC E MU S T F LOW

PREFACE
FACTIONS
Frank Herbert’s classic science fiction novel Dune 
will live for generations as a masterpiece of creative 
imagination. In this game, you can bring to life the alien 
planet and the swirling intrigues of all the book’s major 
characters. 
Dune — the very name conjures up desolation. Desert 
sandscapes cover most of the planet surface, broken 
only by giant rock ridges. Giant sandworms a quarter 
mile long live beneath the sand and attack any who 
linger on it. Human life exists in a few scattered places 
where precious water is available, but even those 
settlements are buffeted by terrifying coriolis storms. 
Yet the planet is crucial to the destiny of a galactic 
empire. Because only on Dune can spice be harvested. 
Spice is the key to interstellar travel. Only by ingesting 
the addictive drug can the Spacing Guild Steersman 
continue to experience visions of the future, enabling 
them to plot a safe path through hyperspace. Spice is 
also a geriatric medicine that prolongs life. Only by 
assuring a stable supply of spice throughout the galaxy 
can any Emperor avoid civil revolt. With spice, in short, 
one can buy whatever one wants. 
Powerful forces struggle for control of Dune. Imperial 
troops, aristocratic families, Guildsmen, a secretive 
sisterhood, and the nomadic native Fremen all vie for 
power on the planet. 
“A beginning is the time for 
taking the most delicate care that 
the balances are correct. This every 
sister of the Bene Gesserit knows. 
To begin your study of 
the life of Muad’Dib, then take 
care that you first place him in 
his time: born in the 57th year of 
the Padishah Emperor, Shaddam 
IV. And take the most special care 
that you locate Muad’Dib in his 
place: the planet Arrakis. Do not 
be deceived by the fact that he 
was born on Caladan and lived his 
first fifteen years there. Arrakis, 
the planet known as Dune, 
is forever his place.”
— from Manual of Muad’Dib 
by the Princess Irulan
All are subject to the rigid economics of the joint 
merchant combine, CHOAM; resources are expensive, 
shipping is costly, excellence has a price. And that price 
must be paid in the universal currency, the measure of 
all value: spice. 
All need spice. Some will harvest it directly when it 
blows in an isolated area of sand, risking the onslaught 
of sandworm and storm alike. But others will take it 
violently in battle, or quietly in taxes and fees. 
Those controlling large settlements will have access to 
ornithopters and cover great distances quickly. Other 
players will have to pick their way slowly across sand 
and rock. 
But all anxiously await the decision-making Nexus 
signaled by the sudden appearance of the great 
sandworm, Shai-Hulud. 
Massive battles and small skirmishes will occur, but 
often be decided by a single brilliant leader or an act of 
low treachery. 
But death on Dune need never be tragic. The dead are 
routinely rendered up for their body’s water — so that 
life on the arid planet may continue. And even one 
surviving cell of an individual may be cultured by the 
Tleilaxu technicians until the original person is regrown. 
You will be one of these factions:
The Atreides, led by the youthful 
Paul Atreides (Muad’Dib) — 
rightful heir to the planet, gifted 
with valiant lieutenants and a 
strange partial awareness of the 
future, but beset by more powerful 
and treacherous opponents. 
The Bene Gesserit Sisterhood, 
represented by Reverend Mother 
Gaius Helen Mohiam — ancient 
and inscrutable, carefully trained 
in psychological control and a 
genius at achieving her ends 
through the efforts of others.
T
D
B
 
T

In the DUNE game, you can explore many of the possible interactions that might have 
taken place among these fascinating factions, each with their own drives, needs, and 
special advantages.
DUNE has been divided into a Basic and Advanced Game. Learn and play the Basic Game 
several times before venturing into the Advanced Game.
The Emperor, his majesty the 
Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV 
— keen and efficient, yet easily 
lulled into complacency by his 
own trappings of power.
Spacing Guild
The Spacing Guild, represented by 
steersman Edric (in league with 
smuggler bands) — monopolist 
of transport, yet addicted to ever 
increasing spice flows.
The Fremen, represented by the 
planetary ecologist Liet-Kynes 
— commanding fierce hordes of 
natives, adept at life and travel 
on the planet, and dedicated to 
preventing any outside control 
while bringing about Dune’s own 
natural regeneration.
The Harkonnens, led by the 
decadent Baron Vladimir 
Harkonnen — master of 
treachery and cruel deeds. 
M
P
O
F
M
 
P
C
 
U
L
D
 
H
K
O
 

GAME COMPONENTS
Game Board
The game board is a map of the planet Dune 
showing four types of territories:
	
Sand: 	Yellow or tan with a single border.
	
Rock: 	Brown with double borders.
	 Strongholds: 	Red brown with triple borders.
	
Polar Sink: 	Mottled white with a double 
border.
	
	 Some territories are marked with 
a Spice Blow icon to show the 
locations of possible Spice Blows.
The map is also divided by longitude lines into 
eighteen sectors, which extend from the edge of 
the Polar Sink to the equator at the edge of the 
board. Sectors control the way the storm moves 
around the board.
There are six player circles around the map to 
help determine play order. The map also includes 
a Turn Track and the Tleilaxu Tanks for holding 
dead leaders and forces awaiting revival.
The Rulebook contains the 
Basic Game and Advanced Game 
Sections as well as Strategy Hints, 
Q&A, and Dune Synopsis.
There are 6 sequence of 
play quick reference cards 
to help you keep track of 
the order that everything 
happens in a turn.
Rulebook, 
Quick Start Guide, & 
Quick Reference cards
Battle Wheels
The game includes 2 Battle Wheels, 
which must be assembled and 
joined with the center pin before 
you play the game.
SPICE 
BLOW
Q U I C K S TA R T G U I D E
Frank Herbert’s classic science ﬁ ction novel Dune will live for 
generations as a masterpiece of creative imagination.
In this game, you can bring to life the alien planet and the 
swirling intrigues of all the book’s major characters.
The Atreides led by the 
youthful Paul Atreides 
(Muad’Dib) — rightful 
heir to the planet, gifted 
with valiant lieutenants.
The Bene Gesserit 
Sisterhood, represented 
by Reverend Mother 
Gaius Helen Mohiam — 
ancient and inscrutable.
The Emperor, his 
majesty the Padishah 
Emperor Shaddam IV 
— keen and efﬁ cient, 
yet easily lulled into 
complacency by his own 
trappings of power.
The Harkonnens, led 
by the decadent Baron 
Vladimir Harkonnen — 
master of treachery and 
cruel deeds.
The Spacing Guild 
represented by 
steersman Edric (in 
league with smuggler 
bands) — monopolist of 
transport, yet addicted to 
ever increasing spice ﬂ ows.
The Fremen 
represented by the 
planetary ecologist Liet-
Kynes — commanding 
ﬁ erce hordes of natives, 
adept at life and travel 
on the planet.
Bene
Gesserit
Spacing 
Guild
LONGITUDE 
LINES
TLEILAXU 
TANKS
SPICE 
BANK
PLAYER 
CIRCLES
SECTOR 
TURN 
TRACK
ROCK 
SAND 
STRONGHOLDS 
POLAR SINK 

Six Decks of Cards
Tokens
Advanced Game Components
Six Player Faction Sets: 
Each set is composed of 5 types of components:
A Player Shield bearing the main character 
of the faction and its emblem.
A single or double-sided Player Sheet 
describing the faction character’s basic and 
advanced game advantages. 
Player Markers for each faction: 
Atreides (green), Bene Gesserit (Blue), 
Emperor (Red), Fremen (Sand), Spacing Guild 
(Orange), Harkonnen (Black).
5 large discs — each showing a leader and the 
leader’s fighting strength.
20 small tokens called forces (starred forces 
have no significance in the Basic Game).
All components of each player set have the same color 
for identification. 
(21 cards)
(48 each of 1 and 2, 36 
of 5, and 24 of 10)
(33 cards)
(30 cards)
(6 cards)
(6 cards)
(16 cards)
Spice Deck:
156 Spice Tokens
Storm Marker
Game Turn 
Counter
Destroyed Shield 
Wall Token
	 Treachery Deck:
Traitor Deck:
Alliance Deck:
Storm Deck:
Prediction Deck:
5 Special Emperor forces
Bene Gesserit forces
Kwisatz Haderach Card 
and Counter tokens
Sandworm Token
3 Special Fremen forces
Tells where Spice Blows will 
create treasure troves of spice 
waiting to be harvested, and 
when the giant sandworms 
known as Shai-Hulud will turn up.
5 of the Emperor’s forces 
are printed with a star on 
them. These forces are 
worth twice their normal 
value.
The Bene Gesserit forces 
are printed with two 
different images to 
differentiate between 
spiritual advisor forces 
and normal forces.
This card and token are 
used by the Atreides, 
and add 2 points of 
additional 
strength to a 
leader.
For use with the Fremen 
advanced game advantage.
3 of the Fremen forces 
are printed with a star on 
them. These forces are 
worth twice their normal 
value.
Provides weapons, defenses, 
tricks and tools to outmaneuver 
opponents and win battles.
With 1 card for each Leader Disc, 
these are leaders from other 
factions that you have subverted.
To remind you how your Alliance 
benefits you.
For use with the Fremen 
advanced game advantages. 
With 1 card for each of the 
6 factions and 10 cards for turns 
1 to 10, these predict who will 
win the game.
Fighters
Advisors

SET-UP FOR PLAY 
BASIC GAME
Place all spice tokens in the Spice Bank. 
The Spice Deck and Treachery Deck are shuffled and 
placed face down next to the game board. Played cards 
will be piled face up next to the decks as discards and 
reshuffled to restock the Spice Deck and Treachery Deck 
as necessary.
Players now choose factions.
Here are a couple of ways for players to choose their 
faction.
1. Use the faction cards from the Prediction Deck to 
randomly determine what faction each player will play. 
Shuffle the cards and deal 1 card to each player, or
2. Each player randomly draws a card from the Bene 
Gesserit turn prediction cards and selects a faction in 
the order of their drawn card, with the highest card 
choosing first.
Players may swap factions with each other at this point 
if they wish.
Players take their Player Shields and player sheets and 
set up their factions as follows.
1.	Positions
	
Players place their Player Marker on the player 
circle closest to their shield and seat at the table.
2.	Traitors 
Remove the cards for all factions that are not in 
play from the Traitor Deck. Then shuffle the cards 
thoroughly. Each player is dealt 4 cards
Each player then secretly selects 1 card to keep. 
If a player draws any leaders from an opponent’s 
faction, they can choose 1 leader to become their 
traitor. If they drew no opponent leaders, they can 
protect one of their own leaders.
Either way, each player places their chosen card face 
down behind their shield, returning the other cards 
face down to the bottom of the Traitor Deck.
3.	Spice
Spice equal to the amount indicated on each player 
sheet is removed from the Spice Bank and placed 
behind each shield.
4.	Forces 
Each player’s forces are placed on the board as 
indicated by their player sheet. All forces in reserve 
are placed next to your shield.
5.	Treachery
1 card from the Treachery Deck is dealt to each 
player. 
6.	Turn Marker
Place the turn marker at 1 on the Turn Track.
Note: A faction has special advantages that may 
contradict the rules. A faction’s particular advantages 
always have precedence over the rules.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
Each faction has a set of unique economic, military, strategic, or treacherous advantages. The object of the game is to 
use these advantages to gain control of Dune. The winner is the First Player to occupy at least 3 strongholds with at 
least one of their forces during the Mentat Pause Phase.
A player may win alone or in an Alliance with other players.
Two & three player games
For a three player game, recommended factions are 
Atreides, Harkonnen, and Fremen. In a three player 
game an Alliance needs 4 strongholds to win, as in the 
standard Alliance rules.
For a two player game, try Atreides vs Harkonnen, 
or play 2 factions each (select factions normally as 
described above). In a two player game, the number 
of strongholds needed to win is increased to 4.
Four & Five player games
For 4 player, consider leaving out both the Spacing 
Guild and Bene Gesserit, while for 5 player games try 
playing with no Bene Gesserit.
“I must not fear. 
Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is 
the little-death that brings total 
obliteration. 
I will face my fear. 
I will permit it to pass over me and 
through me. 
And when my fear is gone I will 
turn and face fear’s path, and only 
I will remain.”
— Paul Atreides

SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
PHASE 1:
STORM
DUNE is played in turns to a maximum limit of 10 turns.
Each turn is composed of nine specific phases that must 
be completed in the exact sequence presented below. 
1.	Storm Phase
	
The Storm Marker is moved around the map. 
The faction whose Player Marker the storm next 
approaches will be the First Player for this turn.
2.	Spice Blow and NEXUS Phase 
The top card of the Spice Deck is turned over and the 
amount of spice shown on the card is placed in the 
highlighted territory. If Shai-Hulud appears during 
the Spice Blow Phase, a Nexus occurs and the players 
have the opportunity to make and break Alliances.
3.	CHOAM Charity Phase 
Players with 0 or 1 spice may claim CHOAM Charity. 
4.	Bidding Phase 
Players bid spice to acquire Treachery Cards. 
5.	Revival Phase 
All players are allowed to reclaim forces and leaders 
from the Tleilaxu Tanks. 
6.	Shipment and Movement Phase 
Starting with the First Player and proceeding 
counterclockwise, each player in turn ships forces 
down to the planet or brings in forces from the 
southern hemisphere (Fremen) and then moves 
their forces on the game board.
7.	Battle Phase 
Players must resolve battles in every territory that is 
occupied by forces from two or more factions.
8.	Spice Harvest Phase 
Forces in territories that contain spice may collect 
the spice.
9.	Mentat Pause Phase
Factions either declare a winner (or winners) or 
take some time to evaluate their positions on the 
map and then move the Turn Counter to the next 
position on the Turn Track to begin the next turn.
First Storm
The first time the storm is moved, the Storm Marker is 
placed at a random location along the map edge using 
the following procedure. The two players whose player 
circles are nearest on either side of the Storm Start 
Sector will secretly dial a number from 0 to 20 on the 
wheels. The two numbers are simultaneously revealed, 
totaled and the Storm Marker moved from the Storm 
Start sector counterclockwise around the map for the 
sum total of sectors.
Storm Movement
In all subsequent Storm Phases, the two players who last 
used the Battle Wheels will independently dial a number 
from 1 to 3, simultaneously reveal their numbers, add 
them together, and then advance the Storm Marker from 
its current position counterclockwise around the map for 
the sum total of sectors.
Damage
Any forces in a sector of sand territory (except the 
Imperial Basin) over which the storm passes or stops are 
killed. Place these forces in the Tleilaxu Tanks. Forces 
that are not on a sand territory find protection from the 
storm. In addition any spice in a sector over which a 
storm passes or stops is removed to the Spice Bank.
Obstruction
Forces may not move into, out of, or through a sector in 
storm. Forces may not battle if either force is in storm.
First Player
The player whose Player Marker the storm next 
approaches is the First Player in the Bidding Phase, 
Shipping Phase, and Movement Phase.

Top Card
The top card of the Spice Deck is turned over.
Territory Card
Shai-Hulud Card
Declaration
Before bidding starts, all players must declare how many 
Treachery Cards they hold. The hand limit is 4. Players 
with 4 cards must pass during bidding.
Dealer
One of the players deals cards from the Treachery Deck 
face down in a row, 1 card for each player who is allowed 
to bid.
Any player with 0 or 1 spice can collect spice to bring 
their total to 2 by calling out “CHOAM Charity.”
First Turn
During the first turns Spice Blow Phase only, all 
sandworm cards turned over are ignored and set 
aside, then reshuffled back into the Spice Deck after 
this phase.
PHASE 2:
SPICE BLOW 
AND NEXUS
PHASE 4:
BIDDING
PHASE 3:
CHOAM CHARITY
Auction
The first card in the row is now auctioned off for spice.
•	 The bidding is started by the First Player. If that 
player already has 4 Treachery Cards the next player 
to the right who does not have 4 Treachery Cards 
opens the bidding.
•	 The player who bids first must bid 1 or more spice 
or pass. Bidding then proceeds to the bidder’s 
immediate right. The next bidder may raise the bid 
or pass and so on around the table until a top bid 
is made and all other players pass. The top bidding 
player then pays the number of spice they bid into 
the Spice Bank and takes the card.
Bid Limit
Players may not bid more spice than they have.
Next Starting Bidder
In subsequent bidding during this phase, the First Player 
who can bid, to the right of the player who opened the 
bid for the previous card, begins the bidding for the next 
card. In this way every player who can bid gets a chance 
to open the bidding for a Treachery Card.
End of Bidding
Bidding for Treachery Cards continues until all cards 
available for bid have been auctioned off or a card is not 
bid on by anyone. If a card is passed on by everyone, all 
remaining cards are returned to the top of the Treachery 
Deck and the Bidding Phase is over.
Transparency
The number (not the type) of Treachery Cards each 
player holds must always be open to everyone during 
the Bidding Phase. No one is allowed to hide the number 
of cards that they hold. A player can never have more 
than 4 cards in their hand at any one time. If they have a 
full hand, they must pass on all cards up for bid.
Time Limit
Each player must bid within 10 seconds of the previous 
player or they are assumed to have passed.
Territory
This is a Spice Blow. The amount of spice indicated on 
the card is taken from the Spice Bank and placed onto 
the territory in the sector containing the Spice Blow 
icon. Then this card is placed face up on the Spice Deck 
discard pile. (If the Spice Blow icon is currently in storm, 
no spice is placed that turn.)
Shai-Hulud
A Nexus will occur after the following events:
•	 All spice and forces in the territory shown on the 
card now face up in the discard pile are removed to 
the Spice Bank and Tleilaxu Tanks respectively. Then 
the Shai-Hulud card is placed face up on the Spice 
Deck discard pile.
•	 Then another card is turned over. If it is a Shai‑Hulud 
it is immediately discarded and another card is 
turned over. This continues until a Territory Card 
appears and spice is placed as defined above. The 
Territory Card is placed face up on the Spice Deck 
discard pile.
Nexus
Revealing a Shai-Hulud card after the first turn also 
causes a Nexus at the end of the phase. In a Nexus, 
Alliances can be formed and broken. (See Alliances on 
page12)

The First Player conducts their Force Shipment and then 
Force Movement. Play then proceeds to the right until all 
players have completed this phase.
Force Shipment
Shipment of Reserves
A player with off-planet reserves may make one 
shipment of any number of forces from their reserves to 
any one territory on the map.
Force Revival
All players may now revive up to 3 forces from the 
Tleilaxu Tanks.
	
Free: 	A certain number of forces are revived 
for free as stated on the player sheet.
	
By Spice: 	Any additional forces that may be 
revived must be done at a cost of 2 spice 
per force. All spice expended for force 
revival is placed in the Spice Bank.
	
Limit: 	A player can never revive more than 
3 forces per turn.
	 To Reserves: 	Revived forces must be placed in the 
player’s reserve.
Leader Revival
If all 5 of a player’s leaders are in the Tleilaxu Tanks they 
may revive 1 leader per turn until all of their leaders 
have been revived.
	
Fighting   	To revive a leader, a player must pay
	
Strength: 	that leader’s fighting strength in spice to 
the Spice Bank. 
	
	 A revived leader can be played normally 
and is still subject to being a traitor.
	 Dead Again: 	If a revived leader is killed again, place 
it face down in the Tleilaxu Tanks. This 
leader cannot be revived again until all 
of the player’s other revivable leaders 
have been revived, killed, and sent to the 
Tleilaxu Tanks again.
PHASE 6 :
SHIPMENT 
AND MOVEMENT
PHASE 5:
REVIVAL
Revived 
 Leader Status:
Payment
A player must pay spice to the Spice Bank for their 
shipment. The cost of shipping off-planet reserves 
is 1 spice per force shipped into any stronghold and 
2 spice per force shipped into any other territory.
Sectors
When shipping into a territory lying in several sectors, a 
player must make clear in which sector of the territory 
they choose to leave their forces.
Exceptions
	
Storm: 	No player may ship into a sector in 
storm.
	Strongholds: 	No player may ship into a stronghold 
already occupied by two other players.
	
One Way: 	No player may ship forces from the 
board back to their reserves.
Force Movement
Each player may move, as a group, any number of 
their forces from one territory into one other territory. 
Forces are free to move into, out of, or through any 
territory occupied by any number of forces with certain 
restrictions and additional movement advantage 
mentioned below.
Ornithopters
A player who starts a force move with one or more 
forces in either Arrakeen, Carthag, or both has access to 
ornithopters and may move forces through up to three 
adjacent territories. The forces moved do not have to be 
in Arrakeen or Carthag to make the three territory move. 
Thus, for example, a player with one or more forces 
in Arrakeen would be able to move forces starting in 
Tuek’s Sietch through Pasty Mesa and Shield Wall to the 
Imperial Basin, where they must stop.
One Adjacent Territory
A player without a force in either Arrakeen or Carthag 
at the start of their move does not have access to 
ornithopters and can only move their forces by foot to 
one adjacent territory.
One Force Move 
Each player may make only one force move per turn.
Sectors
Sectors have no effect on movement. Forces can move 
into or through a territory ignoring all sectors. A sector’s 
only function is to regulate the movement and coverage 
of the storm and spice collection.

Storm
As defined above in the Storm Phase section, no force 
may move into, out of, or through a sector in storm. 
Many territories occupy several sectors, so that a player 
may move into and out of a territory that is partly in the 
storm, so long as the group does not pass through the 
part covered by the storm.
 •	 When ending a move in a territory lying in several 
sectors, a player must make clear in which sector of 
the territory they choose to leave their forces.
 •	 The Polar Sink is never in storm.
Stronghold Blocking
Like shipment, forces cannot be moved into or through 
a stronghold if forces of two other players are already 
there.
Battle Determination
Wherever two or more players’ forces occupy the same 
territory, battles must occur between those players.
Battles continue until just one player’s forces or no 
forces remain in all territories on the map with two 
exceptions:
•	 Players cannot battle one another in a territory if 
their forces are separated by a sector in storm. Their 
forces can remain in the same territory at the end of 
the phase.
•	 Players cannot battle in the Polar Sink. It is a free 
haven for everyone. 
First Player
When resolving battles, the First Player is named the 
aggressor until all of their battles, if any, have been 
fought. The aggressor chooses the order in which they 
wish to fight their battles. Then the player to their 
immediate right becomes the aggressor and so on, until 
all battles are resolved. 
If three or more players are in the same territory, the 
aggressor picks who they will battle first, second, etc. for 
as long as they survive.
Battle Plan
To resolve a battle, each player must secretly formulate 
a Battle Plan. A Battle Plan always includes the number 
of forces dialed on the Battle Wheel. If possible, it must 
include a faction’s leader or cheap hero. It may include 
Treachery Cards at the player’s discretion.
PHASE 7:
BATTLES
Battle Wheel
Each player picks up a Battle Wheel and secretly dials a 
number from zero to the number of forces they have in 
the disputed territory. Both players will lose the number 
of forces dialed on the Battle Wheel.
One Leader Disc is selected and placed face up in the slot 
on the wheel. A Cheap Hero Card may be played in lieu 
of a Leader Disc.
•	 Leaders that survive battles may fight more than 
once in a single territory if needed, but no leader 
may fight in more than one territory during the same 
phase.
•	 A player must always play either a leader or a cheap 
hero card as part of their Battle Plan if possible.
•	 If it is not possible, they must announce that fact.
Treachery Cards
Players with a leader or 
cheap hero may play a 
Weapon Treachery Card, 
Defense Treachery Card, or 
both by holding them against 
the wheel. They may play no 
Treachery Cards as well.
Revealing Wheels
When both players are ready, 
the Battle Plans are revealed 
simultaneously.
Battle Resolution
Winner
The winner is the player with the higher total of number 
dialed on the Battle Wheel, plus their leader’s fighting 
strength. 
No Treachery
A player with no leader or cheap hero must still 
battle, but they cannot play any Treachery Cards as 
part of their Battle Plan. (This situation can occur 
when a player does not have a cheap hero and 
all their leaders are in the Tleilaxu Tanks or have 
fought in another territory in that phase.)
•	 When a player plays a cheap hero, their total is 
simply the number of tokens on the dial, but the 
option to play weapon, defense, or worthless cards is 
still available to them.
“In shield fighting, one moves fast 
on defense, slow on attack.
Attack has the sole purpose 
of tricking the opponent into a 
misstep, setting him up for the 
attack sinister.
The shield turns the fast blow, 
admits the slow kindjal!”
— Gurney Halleck, 
to Paul Atreides

No Ties
In the case of a tie, the aggressor has won. 
Weapons
If a player’s opponent played a Weapon Treachery 
Card and the player did not play the proper Defense 
Treachery Card, the player’s leader is killed and cannot 
count toward their total. Both leaders can be killed and 
neither count in the battle. When a player plays a cheap 
hero, their total is simply the number of forces they dial, 
but they can play weapons or other Treachery Cards.
Killed Leaders
Any leaders killed are immediately placed face up in the 
Tleilaxu Tanks. The winner immediately receives their 
value (including their own leader, if killed) in spice from 
the Spice Bank.
Surviving Leaders
Leaders who survive remain in the territory where they 
were used until all battles in other territories have been 
resolved. Then they are retrieved by their owners. 
Losing
The losing player loses all the forces they had in the 
territory to the Tleilaxu Tanks and must discard every 
Treachery Card they used in their Battle Plan. Note that 
the loser does not lose their leader as a result of battle. 
Leaders are killed only by Weapon Treachery Cards. 
Winning
The winning player loses only the number of forces they 
dialed on the Battle Wheel. These forces are placed in 
the Tleilaxu Tanks. The winning player may also keep or 
discard any of the cards they played. 
Traitors
If you are in a battle and your opponent uses a leader 
that matches a Treachery Card you control, you may 
call out “Treachery!” and pause the game.
The Traitor Card is revealed. 
The Player Who Revealed the Traitor Card
•	 immediately wins the battle
•	 loses nothing, regardless of what was played in 
the Battle Plans (even if a lasgun and shield are 
revealed)
•	 places the traitorous leader in the Tleilaxu Tanks 
and receives the traitorous leader’s fighting 
strength in spice from the Spice Bank.
The Player Whose Traitor Was Revealed
•	 loses all of their forces in the territory
•	 discards all of the cards they played
Two Traitors
If both leaders are traitors, each a traitor for the 
opponent, both players’ forces in the territory, their 
cards played, and their leaders, are lost. Neither 
player gets any spice.
Any player with forces in a sector of a territory in which 
there is spice may now collect that spice. This is done 
by taking the spice tokens you are entitled to from the 
territory and placing them behind your shield. The 
collection rate is 3 spice per force if the player occupies 
Carthag or Arrakeen. It is 2 spice per force if the player 
does not occupy Carthag or Arrakeen.
Uncollected spice remains where it is for future turns.
PHASE 8:
SPICE COLLECTION
If one player occupies 3 strongholds with at least one of 
their forces during the Mentat Pause Phase, that player 
wins the game.
If the required number of strongholds is 4 and the two 
players in an Alliance separately occupy a total of at 
least 4 strongholds with one or more forces at the end 
of a turn, that Alliance wins the game. For example, if 
the Atreides are in an Alliance with the Fremen, and the 
Fremen occupy Sietch Tabr and Carthag and the Atreides 
occupy Tuek’s Sietch and Arrakeen during the Mentat 
Pause Phase, they win the game together.
If there are no winners, players mull over their positions 
on the board, consider their options and, when they are 
ready, move the turn marker to the next position on the 
Turn Track to begin the next turn.
PHASE 9:
MENTAT PAUSE 
PHASE
“He who controls the Spice, 
controls the universe!”
Baron Harkonnen

Forming an Alliance
Basics
No more than two players may be in an Alliance and the 
win condition is now 4 instead of 3 strongholds.
Discussion
Players may discuss among themselves the advantages 
and disadvantages of allying, and with whom. 
Transparency
The members of the Alliance must be revealed to all. 
Alliances cannot be secret. Swap Alliance Cards as a 
reminder of who are in an Alliance.
Limits
Several Alliances can be formed during a Nexus, but no 
player can be a member of more than one Alliance. Once 
all players have had a chance to ally, no further Alliances 
can be made until the next Nexus. 
Breaking An Alliance
Breaking
Any player may break an Alliance during a Nexus. Players 
just announce that they are breaking from an Alliance.
Joining Another
Players who break from an Alliance have an opportunity 
to immediately join or form a new Alliance. 
How an Alliance Functions 
Winning
Allied players’ forces are considered the same for the 
purposes of victory. If together their joint forces hold 
4 strongholds in the Mentat Pause Phase, they have 
jointly won the game.
Constraint
Allies may not enter any territory (except the Polar Sink) 
in which one of their allies already has a force and, thus, 
may never battle one another.
Ally Secrecy
Allies may discuss and share strategy and information 
secretly at any time. 
Bidding
During the Bidding Phase, allies may help each other by 
paying some or all of the cost of each other’s Treachery 
Cards so that a player can bid more spice than they 
actually have.
Movement
During the Movement Phase, allies may pay for each 
other’s shipments.
Shared Advantages
Allies may assist one another as specified on their player 
sheets.
Note, see page 24 for Optional Rules for Alliances.
Players are never required to keep their cards, spice 
holdings, or the traitors they selected secret. They are 
never obligated to reveal this information either. 
All spice holdings should be kept behind the Player 
Shield. The number of Treachery Cards held must be 
kept open during the Bidding Phase, but can be kept 
secret at all other times. 
Players who are not members of the same Alliance 
can make any kind of verbal deals or bribes between 
one another. Once made, these deals and bribes must 
be stated aloud and must be honored. A player cannot 
renege on a deal or bribe. Spice can be part of the bribe 
or deal. 
A deal or bribe cannot involve the transfer or gift of 
Treachery Cards, leaders, forces, or faction advantages. 
This leaves secret information, future actions, and, of 
course, spice.
A player cannot make a deal or bribe that would 
contravene the rules or the player’s faction powers. 
These are the only limitations.
Note: If for any reason two factions who became 
allies during the last turn occupy the same territory 
at the beginning of the next turn, one of those factions 
must move out of that territory during the Shipment and 
Movement Phase. If the first faction to ship and move 
does not move out of the territory, the second faction 
must move out or lose those forces to the Tleilaxu Tanks.
Once a Shai-Hulud (sandworm) card is turned over on the second or subsequent turns, at the end of the Spice Blow 
and NEXUS Phase, a Nexus occurs. During a Nexus, all players have a chance to make, join or break Alliances. Once 
players have had a chance to do so, play continues.
ALLIANCES (NEXUS)
SECRECY
BRIBERY

Spice now plays an important role in the combat 
procedure.
•	 Each force used in a battle is valued at its full 
strength if 1 spice is expended to support it. A force 
used in a battle that is not supported by 1 spice is 
valued at half strength.
•	 When creating a Battle Plan, a player must add the 
amount of spice they plan to expend in the battle to 
their Battle Wheel. If a traitor comes up, the winner 
does not have to expend any spice. Otherwise, spice 
used in the Battle Plan must go to the Spice Bank, 
win or lose.
When dialing a Battle Plan, one-half increments can be 
indicated by lining up the line between the numbers 
with the line under the window of the Battle Wheel. 
Some examples are shown to the right.
When the battle winner takes losses, the player may do 
so in any manner as long as it agrees with the strength 
dialed and the spice expended. 
For example, the Emperor player has 1 Sardaukar 
(worth 2 forces) and 5 ordinary forces in a territory in 
battle. The Emperor dialed a strength of 3 and expended 
1 spice.
ADVANCED GAME
INTRODUCTION
The Basic Game is changed by increasing the number of 
Spice Blows, adding a spice advantage for holding a city 
or Tuek’s Sietch, (the smuggler stronghold), an enhanced 
Karama Card, and an advanced battle system.
During every Collection Phase, each occupant of Carthag 
and Arrakeen collects 2 spice and the occupant of Tuek’s 
Sietch collects 1 spice. To qualify for collection, a player 
needs to occupy the stronghold only at the time of 
collection. If a player occupies two of these strongholds, 
they collect spice for each that they occupy.
DOUBLE SPICE BLOW
In Phase 2: Spice Blow and NEXUS, 2 Spice Cards will be 
revealed instead of just one, and there will be two spice 
discard piles, A and B. 
First reveal one Spice Card.
Territory
If it is a territory, place spice in that territory normally. 
Then place the card face up on discard pile A.
Shai-Hulud
If it is Shai-Hulud, a Nexus will occur after the following 
events:
•	 Any spice and forces on a Territory Card at the top of 
discard pile A (if any) are lost to the Spice Bank and 
Tleilaxu Tanks. The Shai-Hulud card is placed on the 
spice discard pile.
•	 Then another card is turned over. If it is a Shai-Hulud 
it is immediately discarded on pile A and another 
card is turned over. This continues until a Territory 
Card appears and spice is placed as defined above. 
The Territory Card is placed face up on spice discard 
pile A.
Nexus
Then a Nexus occurs.
Now reveal the second spice card and repeat the above 
procedure using discard pile B.
ADVANCED COMBAT
INCREASED SPICE FLOW
Battle Wheel 
Examples
2½
4½
8½
The Emperor player wins the battle, and they may 
choose to lose 1 Sardaukar force at full strength (2) and 
2 ordinary forces at half strength (½ + ½), 
or, they may lose 1 ordinary force at full strength and 4 
forces at half strength (½ + ½ + ½ + ½).
In one case, the player loses 1 Sardaukar and 2 ordinary 
forces. In the other case, the player loses 5 ordinary 
forces. 
Either choice fulfills the Emperor player’s 
spice/strength requirement.

When playing a Karama Card, a player may now use 
it to prevent one opponent from using one of their 
character’s advantages or they may use it to implement 
their character’s special Karama power once.
Karama Cards
In addition to the regular Karama power, all factions 
except the Bene Gesserit gain unique one-time powers 
that can be used when the player plays a Karama Card. 
When playing a Karama Card, a player may use it to 
prevent one opponent from using one of their faction’s 
advantages (as in the basic game), or they may now 
use it to implement their faction’s special Karama 
power once, as described below. After play, the card is 
discarded.
	
Atreides: 	You may use a Karama Card to look at 
any one player’s entire Battle Plan.
	
Emperor: 	You may use a Karama Card to revive up 
to three forces or one leader for free.
	
Fremen: 	You may use a Karama Card to place 
your sandworm token in any sand 
territory that you wish. This is treated 
as a normal sandworm.
	Spacing Guild: 	You may use a Karama Card to stop one 
off-planet shipment of any one player.
	 Harkonnen: 	You may use a Karama Card to take 
without looking any number of cards, 
up to the entire hand of any one player 
of your choice. For each card you take, 
you must give that player one of your 
cards in return.
ADVANCED 
KARAMA CARDS
DUNE STRATEGY TIPS
Players in DUNE must amass spice, convert it to effective 
weaponry, defenses, and other strategic aids, and then 
position themselves with enough forces to be able to 
suddenly move into key strongholds and defend them. 
The game will be won by daring, strategy, mobility, and 
treachery. 
The storm is important, because it determines who 
is First Player. Being First Player is an advantage in 
battles (ties go to the First Player), but being last is an 
advantage in movement (surprise takeovers by the last 
player cannot be countered that turn).
The Spice Blow is important, because its location 
will help determine who gets new spice that turn. 
Sandworms are also vital, because only when they 
appear can the factions on the planet ally during the 
diplomatic Nexus.
The bidding determines who will gain fighting strength 
(or the threat of it) that turn. It is wise to have several 
cards at all times to keep your opponents guessing, but 
it is also wise if you have off-planet reserves to retain 
enough spice to ship more forces onto the board.
The Movement Phase determines battles, spice 
collection, and often the win. Players should always stay 
within striking distance of several strongholds, and may 
want to keep some forces mobile (the Polar Sink is ideal 
for this, as it connects to most territories by short routes 
and is not affected by sandworms or storms). Sometimes 
a player who moves last may go for the win if earlier 
players have left strongholds unprotected. Yet generally 
it is not wise to move for the win unless you can defend 
your forces against all players within range.
Battles are the key test of strength. With good weapons 
and defenses, and a good memory for what other players 
have, a player can swiftly reverse the balance of strength 
in the game. Strategic players will carefully watch what 
weapons and defenses have been played and discarded 
or retained, and by whom. They will also remember 
what leaders they can trust, and pit themselves when 
they can against a player who has one leader who they 
know is a traitor.
Since the loser must discard their cards and the winner 
may keep theirs as well as render up any killed leader 
for their value in spice, battles are the turning point of 
the game. However, since worthless cards can only be 
discarded by playing them in battle, often a player with 
several will send one force against a large force, sacrificing 
a leader to rid themselves of the cards. In such a case, the 
opponent may be unsure of what is going on and may 
spend several of their forces in an unnecessary defense.

FACTION STRATEGY TIPS 
Generally, any player with an advantage (whether it be cards, 
leaders, forces, or strategic advantages) is well advised to 
press forward and force battles.
Collection of spice is of course advantageous, especially 
to those who need it, but also to those who want to keep 
others from having it to then use for cards or shipping. But 
collection carries with it the risks of destruction by storm or 
sandworm.
Alliances will usually force an end to the game within a 
few turns. In larger games, it is difficult to win alone, and 
alliances will be necessary. It is generally wise to ally with 
someone who can complement your advantages. If you are 
strong on strategic ability but short on resources, seek an 
alliance with someone who has access to spice. If you are 
rich, look for strategy or treachery in your partner.
These faction strategy tips can also be found on the back of 
the Player Shields.
Your major handicap is poverty. Usually you can’t purchase 
Treachery Cards for several turns, since the others will 
outbid you. You must be patient and move your forces 
into any vacant strongholds, avoiding battles until you are 
prepared. When you do battle you can afford to dial high 
and sacrifice your forces since they have a high revival rate 
and you can bring them back into play at no cost. You have 
the advantage of better mobility than factions without a city 
stronghold, and you have good fighting leaders. Your game 
plan will be to bide your time and wait for an accessible 
Spice Blow that no one else wants in order to build up your 
resources.
Spacing Guild
Your major handicap is your weak array of leaders and your 
inability to revive quickly. In addition, you usually cannot 
buy Treachery Cards at the beginning of the game. You are 
vulnerable at this point and should make your stronger moves 
after building up your resources. If players do not ship on at 
a steady rate you will have to fight for spice on the surface 
or collect only the isolated blows. Your major advantage is 
that you can ship on to Dune inexpensively and can ship from 
any one territory to any other. This mobility allows you to 
make surprise moves and is particularly useful when you are 
the last player in the Movement Phase. If the game is out of 
reach and well along, try suicide battles against the strongest 
players to weaken them and prevent a win until the round 
ends. Then the victory is yours.
Your major handicap is your low revival rate. You must not 
allow large numbers of your forces to be sent to the Tleilaxu 
Tanks or you may find yourself without sufficient reserves to 
bring onto the planet. Your strengths are that you have the 
ability to win by correctly predicting the turn another player 
will win the game and then secretly working for a favorable 
outcome. In addition, you can be quite effective in battles 
by voicing your opponent and leaving them weaponless or 
defenseless. You can afford to bide your time while casting 
subtle innuendos about who you have picked to win.
You are handicapped by the fact that you must both purchase 
cards and ship onto Dune, and you have no source of income 
other than the spice on the planet’s surface. This will keep 
you in constant battles. Since you start from Arrakeen, you 
have the movement advantage of 3 from the outset, and it is 
wise to protect this. Your prescience allows you to avoid being 
devoured by the sandworms and helps you to get some slight 
head start on the Spice Blow. In addition, you can gain some 
slight advantage over those who would do battle with you by 
your foreknowledge of one element of their Battle Plan.
Your major handicap is that you must ship in all of your 
forces at the start of the game, and often this move requires a 
battle before you are prepared. Even though you do not need 
to forage for spice on the surface of Dune often, you still are 
quite subject to attack since you are likely to concentrate on 
the cities for the mobility they give you. On the plus side, you 
will never need spice badly, since the bidding will keep you 
supplied.
Your major handicap is your difficulty in obtaining spice. You 
are at your greatest relative strength at the beginning of the 
game and should capitalize on this fact by quickly buying 
as many Treachery Cards as you can, and then surging into 
battle. Since you get 2 cards for every one you bid for, you 
can afford to bid a little higher than most, but if you spend 
too lavishly at first you will not have enough spice to ship in 
forces or buy more cards at a later date. There is nothing so 
pitiful to see as a Harkonnen on CHOAM Charity. The large 
number of cards you may hold will increase your chances 
of holding worthless cards. To counteract this, you should 
pick your battles, both to unload cards and to flush out the 
traitors you control.

FREMEN
You are native to Dune and know its ways.
SHIPMENT: During shipment, you may bring any or all 
of your reserves for free onto the Great Flat or onto any 
one territory within two territories of the Great Flat 
(subject to storm and occupancy rules).
MOVEMENT: During movement you may move your 
forces two territories instead of one.
SHAI-HULUD: If Shai-Hulud appears in a territory 
where you have forces, they are not devoured. Upon 
conclusion of the Nexus, you may ride the sandworm 
and move some or all of the forces in the territory to 
any territory subject to storm and occupancy rules. Any 
forces in that territory are not devoured. If Shai-Hulud 
appears again and you still have forces in the original 
territory, you may do this again.
FREMEN SPECIAL VICTORY CONDITION: If no faction 
has won by the end of the last turn and if you (or no one) 
occupies Sietch Tabr and Habbanya Sietch and neither 
Harkonnen, Atreides nor Emperor occupies Tuek’s Sietch, 
your plans to alter Dune have succeeded and you and any 
allies win the game.
You may decide to protect (or not protect) your allies 
from being devoured by sandworms and, at your 
discretion, may also allow them to revive 3 forces for 
free during revival. In addition, your allies win with you 
if you win with the Fremen Special Victory Condition.
STORM RULE: Move the Storm Marker normally 
using the Battle Wheels on the first turn of the game. 
Subsequent storm movement is determined by you 
using your Storm Cards. You randomly select a card 
from the Storm Deck, secretly look at it, and place it face 
down on the margin of the game board.
In the next Storm Phase the number on that Storm Card 
is revealed; the storm is moved counterclockwise that 
number of sectors and your Storm Card is returned to 
the Storm Card Deck. You then shuffle the Storm Deck, 
randomly select a Storm Card and look at it for the next 
turns storm movement, and place it face down on the 
margin of the game board.
SANDWORMS: During a Spice Blow, all additional 
sandworms that appear after the first sandworm can be 
placed by you in any sand territory you wish. Any forces 
there, except yours, are devoured.
STORM LOSSES: If your forces are caught in a storm, 
only half of them there are killed (any fractions are 
rounded up). You may also bring your reserves into a 
storm at half loss.
FEDAYKIN: Your three starred forces, Fedaykin, have a 
special fighting capability. They are worth two normal 
forces in battle and in taking losses. They are each 
treated as one force in revival. Only one Fedaykin force 
can be revived per turn.
BATTLES: Your forces do not require spice to count at 
their full strength.
ADVANCED GAME ADVANTAGES
AT START: 10 forces distributed as you like on Sietch 
Tabr, False Wall South, and False Wall West; and 10 forces 
in reserves (on the far side of Dune). 
Start with 3 spice.
FREE REVIVAL: 3 forces (you cannot buy additional 
revivals).
Fedaykin Troop
Fremen Troop
FACTION PLAYER SHEETS
The next four pages contain a copy of the player sheets for you to reference during your games.

HARKONNEN
You excel in treachery.
TRAITORS: At the start of the game when you draw 
4 Traitor Cards, you keep them all including your own, 
and any leader cards of other factions can be revealed in 
a battle as a traitor.
TREACHERY: You may hold up to 8 Treachery Cards. 
When you have 8 cards you must pass during bidding. At 
the beginning of the game you are dealt 2 cards instead 
of 1, and every time you buy a card you get an extra 
card for free from the Treachery Deck (unless you are at 
7 cards, because you can never have more than 8 total 
Treachery Cards in hand).
Traitor Cards that you hold may be used against your 
ally’s opponent if you so choose.
CAPTURED LEADERS: Every time you win a battle, 
you can either randomly select 1 leader from the loser 
(including the leader used in the battle, if not killed, but 
excluding all leaders already used elsewhere that turn) 
and place the Leader Disc face down into the Tleilaxu 
Tanks to gain 2 spice from the Spice Bank; or you can 
keep the leader and use it once in a battle, after which, 
if it wasn’t killed during that battle, you must return 
that leader to its faction. When all of your own leaders 
have been killed, you must return all captured leaders 
immediately to their factions. Killed captured leaders 
are put in the Tleilaxu Tanks from which their factions 
can revive them (subject to the revival rules). A captured 
leader used in battle may be claimed as a traitor.
AT START: 10 forces in Carthag and 10 forces in reserve 
(off-planet). 
Start with 10 spice.
FREE REVIVAL: 2 forces.
ATREIDES
You have limited prescience.
BIDDING: During the bidding round, you may look at 
each Treachery Card as it comes up for purchase before 
any faction bids on it. You, and only you, may keep 
written records about cards.
MOVEMENT: At the start of the Movement Phase, before 
anyone moves, you may look at the top card of the Spice 
Deck.
BATTLE: During the Battle Phase, you may force your 
opponent to reveal your choice of one of the four 
elements they will use in their Battle Plan against you: 
the leader, the weapon, the defense, or the number 
dialed. If you choose to ask about a weapon or defense 
and your opponent tells you that they are not playing 
that element during this battle, you may not then ask to 
see a different element.
AT START: 10 forces in Arrakeen and 10 in reserves 
(off-planet). Start with 10 spice. Place the Treachery 
Deck and the Spice Deck near your player position. You 
manage these decks.
FREE REVIVAL: 2 forces.
You may assist your allies by forcing their opponent to 
show them one element of their Battle Plan.
KWISATZ HADERACH: The Kwisatz Haderach card 
starts out inactive and may not be used. Use the Kwisatz 
Haderach card and counter token to secretly keep track 
of force losses. Once you have lost 7 or more forces in 
a battle or battles, the Kwisatz Haderach card becomes 
active for the rest of the game and may be used as follows:
• 	 It cannot be used alone in battle, but may add 
its +2 strength to leaders or cheap heroes in one 
territory per turn. If the leader or cheap hero is killed, 
the Kwisatz Haderach has no effect in the battle.
•	 A leader accompanied by Kwisatz Haderach cannot 
turn traitor.
•	 The Kwisatz Haderach can only be killed if blown up 
by a lasgun/shield explosion. If killed, the Kwisatz 
Haderach must be revived like any other leader.
•	 Alive or dead, the Kwisatz Haderach has no effect on 
the rule governing revival of Atreides leaders.

AT START: 1 force in Polar Sink and 19 forces in reserves 
(off-planet). 
Start with 5 spice.
BENE GESSERIT
You are adept in the ways of mind control.
PREDICTION: After step 1 (Positions) in the Setup 
Phase, you secretly predict when one other faction will 
win, placing a turn number card and a faction card from 
your prediction cards face down behind your Player 
Shield. Place the unused prediction cards face down 
back in the box. If the faction you predicted wins (alone 
or as an ally, even your ally) in the turn you predicted, 
reveal your prediction and win alone. You also can win 
normally. You can’t predict that the Spacing Guild or 
Fremen will win with their special victory conditions.
SPIRITUAL ADVISORS: Whenever any other faction 
ships forces onto Dune from off-planet, you may ship 1 
force for free from your reserves into the Polar Sink. You 
may also ship normally, of course.
VOICE: You may Voice your opponent to do as you wish 
with respect to one of the cards they play in their Battle 
Plan. For instance, to play or not play a specific weapon 
(poison weapon, projectile weapon or lasgun) or defense 
(snooper or shield), a worthless card, or a cheap hero. If 
your opponent can’t comply with your command, they 
may do as they wish.
Your forces have two sides, the spiritual, striped side 
(advisor) and the battle side with no stripes (fighter). 
Fighters are normal forces.
START OF GAME: After the Fremen placement (if that 
faction is in the game), you start with one peaceful 
advisor in any territory of your choice. If you are alone 
in the territory, flip the advisor to a fighter.
CHARITY: You always receive CHOAM charity of 2 spice 
regardless of how many spice you already have.
KARAMA: You may use any worthless card as if it is a 
Karama Card.
ADVISORS: Whenever any other faction ships forces to 
Dune from off-planet, you may ship for free one advisor 
from your reserves into that same territory (instead of 
the Polar Sink). Advisors in this territory cannot flip to 
fighters during this turn unless no other forces exist in 
the territory.
Advisors coexist peacefully with other faction forces 
in the same territory. Advisors have no effect on the 
play of the other factions whatsoever and cannot 
collect spice, be involved in combat, prevent another 
faction’s control of a stronghold, prevent another 
faction from challenging a stronghold (second force), 
use ornithopters, or play Family Atomics. Advisors are 
still susceptible to storms, sandworms, lasgun/shield 
explosions, and atomics.
FIGHTERS: When you ship forces into an unoccupied 
territory, you must ship as fighters. If you move advisors 
into an unoccupied territory, you must flip them to 
fighters. If you move advisors into an occupied territory, 
they may remain as advisors or flip to fighters.
INTRUSION: When another faction ships or moves into 
a territory where you have fighters, you may flip them to 
advisors.
BATTLE: On each turn after the Spice Blow and NEXUS 
Phase and before any shipment occurs, in all territories 
in which you have advisors and wish to battle, announce 
you are doing so, and flip all of those advisors to fighters.
In an Alliance you may Voice an ally’s opponent.
ADVANCED GAME ADVANTAGES
Fighters
Advisors

AT START: 5 forces in Tuek’s Sietch and 15 forces in 
reserve (off-planet). 
Start with 5 spice.
SPACING GUILD
You control all shipment onto and off Dune.
PAYMENT FOR SHIPMENT: When other factions ship 
forces onto Dune from their off-planet reserves, they pay 
the spice to you instead of to the Spice Bank.
THREE TYPES OF SHIPMENT: You are capable of 
making one of three types of shipments each turn:
• 	 You may ship normally from off-planet reserves to 
Dune;
• 	 You may ship any number of forces from any one 
territory to any other territory on the board;
• 	 You may ship any number of forces from any one 
territory back to your reserves.
HALF PRICE: You pay only half the normal fee when 
shipping your forces, and pay 1 spice for every 2 of your 
forces shipped back to reserves.
SPACING GUILD SPECIAL VICTORY CONDITION: If no 
faction has been able to win the game by the end of play, 
you have prevented control of Dune and automatically win 
the game.
Allies may ship from their off-planet reserves onto Dune 
or cross-ship from one territory to another with forces 
that are already on Dune at the Spacing Guild half-
price rate. Your allies win with you if you win with the 
Spacing Guild Special Victory Condition.
SHIP AND MOVE WHEN YOU WISH: You may take your 
shipment and move action out of turn. This would allow 
you to go first or last or in between other players’ turns, 
however you wish. The rest of the factions must make 
their shipments and moves in the proper sequence. You 
do not have to reveal when you intend to make your 
shipment and move until the moment you wish to take it.
AT START: 20 forces in reserves (off-planet). 
Start with 10 spice.
EMPEROR
ADVANTAGE
You have access to great wealth.
BIDDING: Whenever any other faction pays spice for a 
Treachery Card, they pay it to you instead of the Spice 
Bank. You may not discount the price of Treachery 
Cards; the full price must be paid.
You may share your great wealth with your allies as 
well as paying spice (directly to the bank) for the revival 
of up to 3 extra of their forces (for a possible total of 6 
during each Revival Phase) from the Tleilaxu Tanks.
SARDAUKAR: Your five starred forces, elite Sardaukar, 
have a special fighting capability. They are worth two 
normal forces in battle and in taking losses against all 
opponents except Fremen. Your starred forces are worth 
just one force against Fremen. They are treated as one 
force in revival. Only one Sardaukar force can be revived 
per turn.
Sardaukar Troop
Emperor Troop

DUNE SYNOPSIS 
The Atreides family had governed the planet, Caladan, for twenty 
generations. In that time, their continued impartial and efficient 
leadership had earned for them the respect of their noble peers 
throughout the galaxies and, gradually, they began to acquire more and 
more influence in the noble assembly, the Landsraad. The present head 
of the Atreides family, Duke Leto, had just been selected the unofficial 
spokesman for the Landsraad, its highest position. 
This growing influence of the Atreides was viewed with great concern 
by a powerful personage of no less rank than the Padishah Emperor, 
Shaddam IV, himself. Shaddam had grown politically war wise in a 
regime long hoary with intrigue and corruption. The emergence of the 
upright and charismatic Duke Leto as a powerful leader of the nobility, he 
realized, could be a very real threat to his own position.
His simplest solution would be to send his fanatical police army, the 
Sardaukar, to arrest Duke Leto. Unfortunately, the Duke’s character was 
so exemplary that no believable pretext for his arrest could be devised. A 
more subtle and serviceable plan began to creep into his devious mind. 
Why not reward Leto for his services to the Empire with a promotion 
to the governorship of a new and more important planet, Arrakis. He 
knew that the present governor of Arrakis, Baron Harkonnen, would 
not give up this planet without a struggle and would prepare a trap to 
surprise the Duke and his family when most vulnerable - just after arrival 
on their new planet. In fact, he would secretly aid the Baron by loaning 
him Sardaukar disguised in Harkonnen livery. If Duke Leto refused the 
governorship, he would be ostracized by his fellow nobles and forced to 
become a renegade. Either way Shaddam IV would be rid of him.
For thousands of years, the religious and semi-mystical sisterhood of 
the Bene Gesserit had groomed the peoples of the Empire to prepare 
for a messiah, a Kwisatz Haderach. To achieve this end, they had trained 
themselves to influence and impress the people by a combination of 
religious mysticism and the power of their Voice - the ability to control 
others merely by selected tone shadings of their voice. They also had 
secretly conducted a rigorous and careful genetic program to match 
mates with the ultimate object of producing a Kwisatz Haderach - 
one who through his genetically developed ability to contact higher 
dimensions could utilize the insights gained to bring a new order to the 
universe. 
The Bene Gesserit were upset with one of their sisters, the formal 
concubine to Duke Leto Atreides, Lady Jessica. As one 
of the final agents in their breeding program, she 
had been instructed to bear a female child who 
was then to marry Feyd-Rautha Harkonnen, 
the Baron’s nephew. There was a high 
probability that a male offspring of that 
union would be a Kwisatz Haderach. For 
some reason never quite understood, even 
by herself, Lady Jessica upset the program 
by bearing a son. This boy, named Paul, 
became the direct heir to the Atreides line and, along with his mother, 
was now accompanying his father to the new planet. The sisters would 
have to watch the events as they unfolded on Arrakis very carefully or 
they might just lose their genetic investments. 
Duke Leto was aware of the true significance behind the Emperor’s 
magnanimous gesture. He and his human computer mentat, Thufir 
Hawat, had analyzed the situation and devised a plan - one that might 
bring them out of the danger alive. Very little concern had been given 
to the Fremen, the natives of Arrakis, by either the Emperor or Baron 
Harkonnen. In fact, they considered them little more than small bands of 
raiders not worth any serious consideration. Yet Thufir Hawat discovered 
that these natives were much more numerous than ever supposed by the 
Imperium and it was well known that they hated the despotic rule of the 
Harkonnens. A secret alliance with these natives might be just enough 
to stave off the impending blow. The only real worry was gauging their 
fighting ability. Nothing was really known about the Fremen. They were 
as mysterious as the planet they inhabited. 
Arrakis (or Dune as it is referred to by all of its inhabitants) had one of 
the most inhospitable surfaces on any planet in the Imperium. There 
was practically no water to be found anywhere. Except in a few civilized 
areas into which tremendous amounts of water had to be continually 
imported at an exorbitant price, the only way a human could survive the 
aridity was by wearing a stillsuit. This unit would continually recycle the 
body’s water thereby preventing any from escaping into the atmosphere. 
Without a stillsuit or an imported water supply, a body would be 
unable to replace even the water lost through perspiration. In this dry 
environment, tremendous Coriolis sand storms often reached speeds of 
up to 700 kilometers per hour. They could eat flesh off bones and etch 
the bones to slivers. No being could survive these storms if caught in the 
open. There were also strange giant creatures often a quarter mile in 
length called Shai-Hulud by the Fremen or sandworms by everyone else. 
These sandworms lived in the deserts which covered most of the planet. 
The slightest noise or vibration would be sufficient to arouse and attract 
sandworms for miles around, any one of which could swallow a house 
without a moment’s pause. Only in the towns and few rocky ridges that 
crisscrossed through the deserts was one safe from these monsters.
It would seem that such a forbidding place would hardly be the likely 
setting for the events that were about to transpire. Yet how often 
underneath a harsh surface is found a cache of great value. There was 
one item valued above all others in the universe and there was just one 
place where it could be found. The item was melange and the place was 
Dune. Melange was a spice found only in the deserts - a by-product of the 
sandworm metamorphic life cycle. It awarded to its consumer prolonged 
life and prescient abilities. It was so highly prized that the entire 
economic structure of the Imperium was based upon it. Space navigation 
was not possible without the prescient abilities it conferred. Laws must 
be obeyed, properties must be observed but let no man restrict the flow 
of melange spice from Dune for whatever reason.

Like the planet they lived on, the features of the Fremen were harsh, 
desiccated and uninviting. Yet, also like the planet, there was hidden 
a spirit inured to hardship and dedicated to the ideals necessary for 
survival. It was the stuff of which great fighters were made and it was this 
hidden asset that Duke Leto hoped to exploit to his advantage. 
Even as Duke Leto was preparing for his journey to Dune, yet another 
party was watching the situation very closely. The Spacing Guild had a 
monopoly on all space transport and along with the Emperor and the 
Landsraad formed the triumvirate that controlled the Imperium. The 
Spacing Guild guarded its monopoly zealously as it was its only basis for 
power. No one could travel anywhere through space except in a Spacing 
Guild spacecraft. Anyone who infringed upon its monopoly or broke its 
rules was immediately denied all space transport. The Spacing Guild had 
just one weakness, it could not navigate in space without the melange 
spice. It was more dependent upon the spice flow than all the others. 
They, too, would have to monitor the impending conflict on Dune very 
closely and, perhaps, even actively interfere if the flow of spice were to be 
threatened. 
As Duke Leto and his forces arrived at their dune residence, Arrakeen, 
nothing seemed amiss. Every object had been carefully checked for traps 
and poison by the advance party. Envoys sent to the Fremen reported back 
favorably in regards to the alliance against the Harkonnens. Perhaps the 
transfer of power would occur without difficulty after all. Suddenly, the 
blow struck and it came unexpectedly from within. Dr. Yueh, the family Suk 
doctor, and one who had undergone Imperial conditioning (the highest 
conditioning against taking human life), had turned traitor. His training 
had been subverted by Baron Harkonnen who held the doctor’s wife as 
hostage. The doctor secretly turned off the House shields and drugged 
the Duke and his family to coincide with the Harkonnen surprise attack. 
He did his job well and the combination of surprise and the additional 
Sardaukar force was enough to overwhelm the defenders. The Duke was 
captured to be delivered to Baron and many of his forces were killed. Paul 
and his mother, Lady Jessica, just barely escaped in an ornithopter, a bird-
like flying machine, into the desert. For the Baron, victory was complete. 
From the triumvirate came a sigh of relief, the internecine squabble had 
been concluded and even though an important noble had been eliminated, 
the spice would continue to flow. 
The Baron was not finished, though. The Fremen had interfered with his 
destruction of the Atreides forces by helping the remnants to get away. He 
decided to get rid of the native scum once and for all and gave his nephew, 
and Feyd-Rautha’s brother, the ‘Beast’ Rabban Harkonnen, the power to 
initiate a pogrom to eliminate the Fremen from the face of the planet. The 
Emperor even loaned the Sardaukar (still disguised in Harkonnen livery) 
to help. 
Several years passed and stories began to filter back to the Baron. The 
program was not proceeding as well as expected. There were reports of 
raids of increasing intensity on the outlying villages conducted by specially 
trained Fremen troops called Fedaykin. These raiders were inflicting many 
more casualties than they were receiving, and the harvesting of spice was 
beginning to suffer. Especially alarming were the reports of a messianic 
leader called Muad’Dib who was organizing, training and leading these 
Fremen to victory after victory. The cutback in spice was beginning to 
cause serious repercussions throughout the Imperium. A decision was 
finally made at the highest level for a cooperative and concerted effort by 
the emperor, the Landsraad and the Spacing Guild to aid Baron Harkonnen 
in destroying the Fremen resistance forever. 
Meanwhile how had Lady Jessica and Paul fared? Having survived a sand 
storm and a sandworm, they were trapped by a band of Fremen who, 
following their law of survival, were about to kill them for their water. 
Because Paul had been specially trained since birth in weapons fighting, 
Mentat computing and the Bene Gesserit ways, he demonstrated an 
extraordinary ability to maintain control of the situation. He and his 
mother so impressed the band that they decided to take them back with 
them to their sietch, an underground stronghold where the Fremen made 
their home. Many centuries before, the Bene Gesserit had prepared the 
Fremen for the coming of the Kwisatz Haderach by a prophecy. ‘A Bene 
Gesserit and her offspring would hold the key to the Fremen future.’ 
Perhaps these visitors were the fulfillment of the legend. Whether or 
not they were, their abilities could be used to aid the fight against the 
Harkonnens. 
Paul, himself, began to see strange visions and gradually became more and 
more aware of a great revolt, a jihad, that he would lead. This awareness of 
his own destiny began to confirm his own suspicion that he might be the 
Kwisatz Haderach. A final test with the Water of Life convinced him that he 
was indeed the one the Bene Gesserit sought. 
The next few years were spent in training and preparing the Fremen for 
the terrible purpose ahead. The first step would have been the restoration 
of himself as his father’s son to his rightful place as Governor of Dune. The 
sides had been chosen and the final confrontation was at hand. 
On paper, the Harkonnens, Emperor, Spacing Guild and Landsraad alliance 
seemed overwhelming when compared to the Fremen forces that Paul 
could muster. But Paul had a few surprises of his own ready. Not all of the 
alliance force was on the planet, only enough deemed sufficient to stamp 
out the Fremen uprising. The remainder of the force was in orbit as an 
emergency reserve. Paul realized that by threatening to destroy all spice, 
he had the leverage to force the Spacing Guild to his side. The final result 
of this switch meant that none of the reserve would land on the planet 
because, of course, the troops were on Spacing Guild spaceships. That 
reduced the strength imbalance considerably. Now he only had to deal 
with the advance force which was conveniently in camp preparing for 
their campaign. 
Calling upon his newly realized powers, Paul summoned a tremendous 
sand storm to cover his ambush. Quietly and quickly he distributed his 
troops behind the Shield Wall protecting the Imperial forces and waited 
for the right moment. As soon as the sand storm passed over the wall and 
into the camp, Paul used his family atomics to blow a gaping hole in the 
wall. The Fremen poured through riding on the backs of the sandworms! 
The surprise was complete and the battle over quickly. Paul had regained 
his rightful title to Dune. So ends the first 
book of the Dune trilogy. The second 
and third books continue the jihad 
as it spreads from Dune to across 
the galaxies.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
TREACHERY CARDS
Does the Family Atomics card have an immediate effect if 
blown when the Storm Marker is over Arrakeen, Imperial 
Basin, or Carthag? 
	 Answer:	 When the Family Atomics card is used, the 
sector that the storm currently occupies is 
never affected. All appropriate sectors into 
which it moves will be affected.
Can the Family Atomics card be used if the Shield Wall or 
if the adjacent territory from which the explosion is being 
initiated is in storm? 
	 Answer:	 Yes, in both cases.
Does the lasgun/shield explosion destroy the spice in the 
territory as well as the forces? 
	 Answer:	 Yes. Please note also that all forces in the 
territory are lost, including those of players 
who were not involved in the battle.
If a Karama Card is played to prevent the Atreides player 
from looking at Treachery Cards, does it affect just one 
card or all cards up for bid? 
	 Answer:	 All cards up for bid.
Can a Tleilaxu Ghola card allow a leader to fight in the 
same phase in which they were killed? 
	 Answer:	 Yes, a leader revived by this card during a 
Battle Phase can be used in this Battle Phase.
Is the Tleilaxu Ghola 5 force revival free? 
In the advanced game, can a Karama Card be used to stop a 
player from using an advanced advantage? 
In the advanced game, does the Karama sandworm called 
by the Fremen signal a Nexus?
	 Answer:	 No. A Nexus is signaled only by a Shai-Hulud 
sandworm card.
REVIVAL
Are revived leaders still subject to turning traitor?
	 Answer:	 Yes. Once a leader is a traitor they are always a 
traitor for the entire game even if revived.
In the advanced game, can players revive leaders if other 
leaders have been captured by the Harkonnens? 
	 Answer:	 Yes. A player can begin to revive their leaders 
if they don’t have any of their own leaders 
available to play in battle (this includes 
Harkonnen, too). 
MOVEMENT
When the Fremen bring reinforcements, must they include 
the Great Flat when counting the two territory range from 
the Great Flat?
	 Answer:	 No. Never include the Great Flat when 
counting the two territory range.
In the 2017 World Boardgaming Championship 
tournament rules shipping into Arrakeen or Carthag and 
then using ornithopters was banned. Some people think 
the original rules were not clear about this point. Why do 
you allow this in these rules? 
	 Answer:	 We (the designers) have always allowed a 
player to ship forces into Arrakeen or Carthag 
and then use ornithopters. Our logic is that 
with the various military cultures in the Dune 
universe, raids prescribed by Kanly (or by 
opportunity for the Fremen) were common. 
An invasion is a similar case in the book. A 
fighting force can be shipped into Carthag or 
Arrakeen, steal ornithopters and use them to 
move other forces through three territories 
anywhere on the board.
Can a player’s forces, that have moved into different 
sectors of the same territory at different times, move or 
ship as a single group? 
Does a sandworm move count as the one group move 
allowed to the Fremen each turn? 
	 Answer:	 No. In fact, the sandworm move is made in the 
Spice Blow Phase, after the Nexus, and not in 
the Movement Phase.

Do sectors affect movement? 
	 Answer:	 No. See response to movement question 1 
(above). Sectors function to regulate the 
movement and effect of storms and the 
placement and collection of spice. They do not 
affect movement.
If a storm is over Arrakeen or Carthag does it affect the 
three territory (ornithopter) move? 
	 Answer:	 No, except of course, into, out of, or through 
the storm.
If the storm separates two factions with forces in Pasty 
Mesa, they cannot battle and remain for the next turn 
(battle rules). On the next storm round, a sandworm card 
is drawn and a Nexus occurs. Can those two players ally? 
The Alliance section says allies cannot battle each other. 
If they can ally, how do they resolve the problem? Is one 
forced to use the Movement Phase to exit the territory? 
	 Answer:	 Yes. If the First Player who ships and moves 
does not move forces out of that territory 
which the two allied factions occupy, the 
second player must . . . or lose those forces to 
the Tleilaxu Tanks.
BATTLE
Can a player substitute a cheap hero for a weapon or 
defense card in order to get rid of it or must they only play 
it in the place of a leader? 
	 Answer:	 No, a player cannot substitute a cheap hero 
for a weapon or defense card. It may only be 
played as a substitute for a leader.
May the same weapon or defense card be played in more 
than one battle, if victorious? More than one battle in the 
same phase, if victorious? 
	 Answer:	 Yes to both questions.
Can a player’s forces that have moved into different sectors 
of the same territory at different times battle as a group? 
	 Answer:	 They must fight as a single group (if storm 
permits)
What happens if truthtrance, Bene Gesserit Voice and 
Atreides Prescience or some combination thereof, are 
being used in the same battle? 
	 Answer:	 The Bene Gesserit Voice must always be used 
before the Atreides Prescience. Truthtrance 
can be played at any time in this interaction. 
Please note that a player has the ability to 
alter components of their Battle Plan, that are 
not affected after being Voiced, Prescienced 
(sic) or Truthtranced.
Can a player voluntarily refuse to reveal a traitor if played 
against them in battle? 
	 Answer:	 Yes. If your traitor appears in battle against 
you, you need not reveal that that leader is 
your traitor.
MISCELLANEOUS
Do allies pay the Spacing Guild for all of their shipments? 
What is the exact rate for the Spacing Guild shipment back 
to their reserves—1 spice per 2 forces, or half of that? 
	 Answer:	 1 spice per 2 forces.
What happens if at the end of the last turn, no one has won 
and the Spacing Guild are not in play? 
	 Answer:	 The Fremen wins. If they are not in play, the 
player occupying the most strongholds wins. 
If several qualify, all who qualify win.
In the advanced game, when reshuffling the Spice Deck, 
must you reshuffle the entire deck? 
In the advanced game, does the Fremen get the sandworm 
advantage bonus if a second sandworm appears in a Spice 
Phase?
How does the Spacing Guild pay for an odd force 
shipment? 
	 Answer:	 All fractional costs are rounded up. So a 
5 force shipment costs the Spacing Guild 
3 spice; a 1 force shipment costs them 
1 spice; etc.

Game Design:
Peter Olotka, Jack Kittredge, Bill Eberle
Development & Quick Start Guide: 
Greg Olotka
Special Thank You to
Ian Allen at Seventh Son Games for Rules Consulting
Play Testing
Thanks to the North Shore Gamers: Greg Schmidt, 
Joe Don Richardson, Rowan Miller, David Kuznick, 
Bob King, John Grubb and Alex Bowers 
Avalon Hill Credit Development:
Mark Uhl and Richard Hamblen.
Avalon Hill Playtest:
Don Greenwood, Bruce Milligan, George Uhl, Robert 
Uhl, Seth Carus, Paul O’Neil, Jim Skinner, Future 
Pastimes and the people at Johns Hopkins U., 
Carmen, Brandy and Doug
Artwork:
Ilya Baranovsky
Producers:
Peter Simunovich, John-Paul Brisigotti
Graphic Design: 
Casey Davies, Victor Pesch
Logo Design: 
Vicki Tunkel
Genuine Entertainment Producer: 
Joe LeFavi
Special Thank You to
Robert Blance, Richard Foster, Reid Pittams, 
Simon Paton, and the Battlefront Studio Team.
Brian Herbert, Kevin J. Anderson 
and the Herbert properties team.
Elie Dekel, Lisa Lilly, Eric Morreel 
and the Legendary team.
Games Design © Gale Force Nine 2019.
DUNE © 2019 Legendary. All Rights Reserved.
Gale Force Nine is a Battlefront Group Company
Alliance 
Restriction
Possible 
Side Effect
Comment
Default Alliance Game
2 Player Alliance limit
   4 Strongholds to win
2 Player Alliance limit
3 Player Alliance limit
   4 Strongholds to win
3 Player Alliance limit
Any number of players 
in Alliances
a longer game
a shorter game
a longer short game
probably the 
shortest game
a more exotic game
Players look for synergy with one other player and 
try to win together but must try to hold on to the 
strongholds they have.
Players look for synergy with one other player and try 
to win together by holding or capturing 3 strongholds.
May devolve into 3 strongest against 3 weakest, etc. 
but supposedly weaker players may be able to reverse 
the stronger players’ fortunes and tip the balance.
May devolve into 3 strongest against 3 weakest, but 
supposedly weaker players may pull off a surprise win 
by winning key battles.
The original Dune rules Alliance game; adversity 
creates ingenuity.
OPTIONAL RULES FOR ALLIANCES
CREDITS
In association with the 
Museum of Science Fiction.
museumofsciencefiction.org