RULEBOOK
™
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 1
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 1
3/28/11 3:40 PM
3/28/11 3:40 PM

CREDITS
Design 
Peter Lee
Editing 
Jennifer Clarke Wilkes
Adventure System Design 
Bill Slavicsek, Mike Mearls, Peter Lee
D&D Senior Creative Art Director Jon Schindehette
Art Director 
Keven Smith
Cover Illustration 
Steve Prescott
Graphic Designer 
Bob Jordan
Additional Graphic Design 
Emi Tanji
Dungeon Tiles 
Jason A. Engle
Prepress Manager 
Jeff erson Dunlap
Imaging Technician 
Sven Bolen
Production Manager 
Raini Applin Rosta
©2011 Wizards of the Coast LLC, P.O. Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707, U.S.A. 
Manufactured by: Hasbro SA, Route de Courroux 6, 2800 Delemont, CH. Represented 
by: Hasbro Europe, 2 Roundwood Ave, Stockley Park, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB11 1AZ. 
UK. DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, WIZARDS OF THE COAST, The Legend of Drizzt, and all 
other Wizards of the Coast product names and their respective logos are trademarks of 
Wizards of the Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. All Wizards characters and 
their distinctive likenesses are property of Wizards of the Coast LLC. Other trademarks 
are property of their respective owners. ® denotes Reg. U.S. Pat. & TM Offi ce. All rights 
reserved. MADE IN CHINA.
300-35594000-001 EN
ISBN: 978-0-7869-5873-3
Visit our website at www.DungeonsandDragons.com
Inspired by the New York Times best-selling novels by 
R.A. Salvatore.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION 
GAME OVERVIEW 
WINNING THE GAME 
 
Game Setup 
 
To Start Playing 
 
Taking Turns 
 
The Cavern Tile Stack 
PLAYER SETUP 
THE HERO CARD 
PLAYER TURN 
 
Hero Phase 
 
Exploration Phase 
 
Villain Phase 
MOVEMENT 
 
Condition: Immobilized 
 
Condition: Poisoned 
ATTACKS 
 
At-Will Powers 
 
Daily Powers 
 
Utility Powers 
COMBAT 
 
Targeting 
 
AC and HP 
 
Attack Bonus 
 
Making an Attack 
 
Damage 
 
Defeating Monsters 
 
Defeating Heroes 
 
Healing Surges 
 
Other Actions 
THE MONSTER DECK 
THE ENCOUNTER DECK 
THE TREASURE DECK 
EXPERIENCE POINTS 
 
Canceling Encounter Cards 
 
Leveling Up 
RULES FOR LATER ADVENTURES 
 
The Advanced Deck 
 
Choosing Power Cards 
OPTIONAL RULES 
 
 
Competetive Adventures 
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
GAME COMPONENTS
40 ﬁ gures (7 blue, 9 purple, 12 
green, 6 clear blue, 1 red, 5 gray)
 8 Hero cards
 4 Villain cards
 1 rulebook 
 1 adventure book
 1 die
 1 double-sized interlocking Start 
tile
 3 double-sized interlocking 
Destination tiles
32 interlocking Cavern tiles
22 interlocking Cavern Edge tiles 
(including 4 Fissure tiles num-
bered 1–5, 6–10, 11–15, 16–20)
200 cards:
Starting Deck
• 5 Sequence of Play cards
• 20 Encounter cards
• 20 Monster cards
• 29 Power cards
• 26 Treasure cards
Advanced Deck
• 7 Ally cards
• 22 Encounter cards
• 10 Monster cards
• 51 Power cards
• 10 Treasure cards
10 Condition markers
 5 Healing Surge tokens
64 1 HP tokens
 8 5 HP tokens
10 Monster 1 HP tokens
 2 Monster 2 HP tokens
 3 Stance tokens (Bruenor, 
Catti-brie, Drizzt)
 2 Charge tokens
 2 Duel tokens
 2 Double Strike tokens
 6 Power Strike tokens
 1 Camp token
 1 Crown token
 1 Key token
 1 Lever token
 1 Map token
 1 Snort token
 2 Filled Bowl tokens
 2 Secret Tunnel tokens
 4 –4 AC tokens
 6 Time tokens
 6 Treasure Chest tokens
 8 Hero tokens
 8 Monster tokens
 3 Collapsed Tunnel markers
 9 Encounter markers
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 2
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 2

INTRODUCTION
Deep below the ground lies the Underdark, a network 
of caverns forever cloaked in starless night and home to 
millions of deadly creatures. Only the most courageous 
surface dwellers dare to travel there. But one epic adven-
ture originally hails from the Night Below: the tales of the 
drow ranger Drizzt and his companions, who travel both 
above and below the surface. 
The Legend of Drizzt
Born in the drow city of Menzoberranzan, Drizzt Do’Urden was 
forced to ﬂ ee to the surface or face the wrath of the evil drow 
goddess, Lolth. Upon reaching the surface in Icewind Dale, 
Drizzt found a band of friends: a dwarf in search of his clan’s 
lost home, along with his adopted human daughter; a ﬁ erce yet 
noble barbarian; and a cunning halﬂ ing thief. Together, these 
brave heroes ﬁ ght against the evil of the Underdark.
The enemies they battle are many. The shadow dragon that 
conquered Mithral Hall will not give up its new home so easily. 
The minions of Lolth seek the destruction of Drizzt, and mer-
cenaries and assassins have all targeted the renegade dark elf. 
Worst of all is the balor Errtu—most mortals do not survive long 
when a demon such as he names them enemies. Fortunately, 
Drizzt is not like most mortals . . .
GAME OVERVIEW
The DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® The Legend of Drizzt™ Board Game 
is an adventure game featuring the characters and locations 
described in the novels by R.A. Salvatore. Some adventures are 
cooperative, where you and your fellow Heroes must work as a 
team to succeed. Other adventurers are more competitive, and 
you must outwit and outmaneuver the other players to win.
Each player selects a Hero, one of the Companions of the Hall. 
Choose from the drow ranger Drizzt Do’Urden, the dwarf 
ﬁ ghter Bruenor Battlehammer, the human archer Catti-brie, 
the halﬂ ing rogue Regis, or the human barbarian Wulfgar. 
Later adventurers feature some other characters met by Drizzt, 
including the drow mercenary leader Jarlaxle Baenre, the dwarf 
battlerager Athrogate, and the dreaded assassin Artemis Entreri.
Once you’ve selected your Heroes, you’re ready to enter the 
Underdark! 
Number of Players
The game can be played with any number of players, from 1 to 
5. Each player controls one Hero—and the game does the rest!
D&D Adventure System
You can combine this game with other D&D® Adventure 
System board games to create new and unique experi-
ences. Check out www.DungeonsandDragons.com for 
more information.
WINNING THE GAME
You win by completing the objective of the adventure you are 
playing. For example, in one adventure you need to defeat the 
evil dragon that conquered Mithral Hall, while in another you 
must stop a drow assault.
Unless stated otherwise in an adventure, you lose if any Hero 
is at 0 Hit Points at the start of that Hero’s turn and there are 
no Healing Surge tokens left to play. You also lose if you are 
defeated by the adventure you are playing. Each adventure lists 
its speciﬁ c victory and defeat requirements.
Game Setup
There’s a lot of stuff in this box. You don’t use it all at once. The 
following components are usually used in every adventure.
 
✦Hero cards and ﬁ gures
 
✦Hero Power cards
 
✦32 standard Cavern tiles
 
✦1 Start tile
 
✦Encounter cards
 
✦Monster cards
 
✦Treasure cards
 
✦Condition markers (Immobilized, Poisoned)
 
✦Healing Surge tokens
 
✦Hit Point tokens
 
✦–4 AC tokens
 
✦6 Trap Encounter markers
 
✦Camp token
 
✦Die
Poisoned marker
Camp token
Trap marker
–4 AC token
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 3
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 3

To Start Playing:
 
✦When you ﬁ rst open the box, you’ll ﬁ nd two decks of 100 
cards each: the Starting Deck and the Advanced Deck. For 
your ﬁ rst couple of games, just use the Starting Deck cards 
(numbered 1–100). Once you’re familiar with how the 
game plays, you’ll be ready for some of the more advanced 
cards. See “The Advanced Deck” on page 14.
 
✦Give each player a Sequence of Play card as a reminder 
of how play proceeds.
 
✦Place the die and the various ﬁ gures in easy reach.
 
✦Pick an adventure from the adventure book. If you are 
playing your ﬁ rst game alone, play Adventure 1: Exile. 
Otherwise, play Adventure 2: Search for Mithral Hall.
 
✦Check the “Adventure Setup” section of the adventure 
book to see if your chosen adventure calls for any of the 
game pieces you set aside.
 
✦Unless the adventure says otherwise, place the Start tile in 
the center of the table and place two Healing Surge tokens 
beside it. These are the group’s surges for this adventure.
 
✦Each player chooses one of the 1st-level Heroes. When 
you choose a Hero, take that Hero’s Hero card, Power 
cards, and the ﬁ gure that matches the Hero. Adventures 
and cards refer to the players as “Heroes.”
 
✦Unless the adventure says otherwise, place each Hero 
ﬁ gure on any square of the Start tile. The name of each 
Hero is printed on the base of the ﬁ gure.
 
✦Each Hero card tells you how many and which Power 
cards you can choose for that Hero. In your early games, 
use the Power cards suggested at the front of the adven-
ture book. Set aside any Power cards that aren’t used in 
this adventure.
 
✦Check the “Starting Awards” section of the adventure’s 
setup to see how many Healing Surge tokens the Heroes 
start with, as well as any starting Treasure cards.
 
✦Set up the Cavern Tile stack (the deck of tiles) using the 
setup instructions in the adventure you have selected. 
You are now ready to begin play. The adventure tells you 
any other rules you need in the “Special Adventure Rules” 
section, or any rules that change the general game rules 
presented in this book.
Taking Turns
Play progresses around the table, starting with a player of the 
group’s choice and then proceeding clockwise. You can also 
each roll the die and let the player who rolled highest go ﬁ rst.
Your turn consists of three phases: one for your Hero, one for 
Exploration, and a Villain Phase for the Monsters and Traps 
under your control.
Set aside the following game pieces. You use these pieces 
only if the adventure you are playing requires them (see the 
adventure book for details). We recommend that you store 
these pieces in a plastic bag to keep them separate until you 
need them.
23 Adventure-speciﬁ c Cavern tiles:
 
✦3 double-sized Destination tiles: Ancient Throne, 
Rocky Lair, Surface Hollow
 
✦20 Cavern Edge tiles
7 Ally Adventure cards: Bruenor (Ally), Catti-brie (Ally), 
Drizzt (Ally), Guenhwyvar (Ally), Regis (Ally), Snort (Ally), 
Wulfgar (Ally)
3 Stance tokens
2 Charge tokens
2 Duel tokens
2 Double Strike tokens
6 Power Strike tokens
6 Time tokens
6 Treasure Chest tokens
8 Hero tokens
8 Monster tokens
1 Crown token
1 Key token
1 Lever token
1 Map token
1 Snort token
2 Filled Bowl tokens
2 Secret Tunnel tokens
3 Adventure-speciﬁ c Encounter markers: Crystal Prison, 
Gauntlgrym Door, Pit
3 Collapsed Tunnel markers
Villain ﬁ gures and Villain cards:
 
✦Artemis Entreri, Human Assassin
 
✦Errtu, Balor
 
✦Jarlaxle Baenre, Drow Mercenary
 
✦Methil El-Viddenvelp, Mind Flayer
 
✦Shimmergloom, Shadow Dragon
 
✦Yochlol, Handmaiden of Lolth
 
✦Yvonnel Baenre, Matron Mother
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 4
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 4

The Cavern Tile Stack
You draw from the collected Cavern tiles (referred to as the 
Cavern Tile stack) to build the network of tunnels representing 
the Underdark. There are endless caverns in the Underdark, 
and it is easy to get lost. Each time you play, the caves have a 
diff erent layout.
Each Cavern tile features a mushroom patch (the square where 
Monsters are placed) and a white or black triangle (used to 
distinguish between less dangerous and more dangerous tiles). 
Many tiles have walls, a few tiles have other special features, 
and some tiles have names to distinguish them for use in 
 certain adventures.
 An unexplored edge is an edge of a tile without a wall that is not 
adjacent to another tile. There are 6 unexplored edges in this 
diagram, highlighted in blue.
A tile is a component of the game board, highlighted in yellow. 
A square is a part of a tile, highlighted in red. The Start tile is a 
special tile: it is treated as two tiles.
When counting tiles, you do not count diagonally and you count 
around tiles. The Drow Duelist, for example, is 3 tiles away from 
Drizzt.
Treasure Chest token
Time token
Double Strike token
Hero token
Monster token
Adventure marker
Item token
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 5
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 5

Triangles: Each tile features a triangle. When you place a new 
tile, the triangle points toward the unexplored edge of the tile 
it is attached to. If the tile has a black triangle, you draw an 
Encounter card during the Villain Phase of your turn.
Each of these tiles is about one-quarter the size of a regular 
Cavern tile. The most common use for Cavern Edge tiles is 
to create a cavern complex at the start of an adventure. See 
“Creating a Pre-Built Cavern Complex” on page 14.
PLAYER SETUP
Place your Hero card (1st level) and your selected Power cards 
face up in front of you.
As you acquire Treasure cards, they also go face up in front of you. 
As you acquire Monster cards and Trap cards, place them to one 
side of your Hero card, in the order in which you received them.
THE HERO CARD
Here’s what a Hero card looks like. The parts of a Hero card are 
brieﬂ y described here and explained in detail on the listed page 
of this book.
Hero’s Name, Race, Class, and Level: The top lines show 
your Hero’s race and character class. The Hero’s level is 
shown in the bottom right corner.
AC (Armor Class): The Hero’s defense score. An attack hits 
the Hero if it equals or exceeds this number (see page 9).
HP (Hit Points): The Hero’s health. Damage reduces the 
Hero’s Hit Points (see page 9). A Hero can never regain 
more Hit Points than his or her Hit Point total.
Speed: The number of squares the Hero can move by using 
a single move action (see page 7).
Surge Value: When a Hero is at 0 Hit Points, he or she 
must use a Healing Surge token at the start of his or her 
next Hero Phase. After using the Healing Surge token, the 
Hero recovers this number of Hit Points (see page 10).
Special Ability: Each Hero has a Special Ability, as 
described here.
Powers: This tells you how many of each type of Power 
card you can select for use in an adventure, as well as 
any Power cards the Hero automatically gets to use (see 
page 9).
Tiles from other D&D Adventure System board games are 
labeled “Dungeon Tiles” on the backs rather than “Cavern Tile.” 
There is no diff erence in game play between a Dungeon tile 
and a Cavern tile. 
The Start Tile: The Start tile is where the Heroes usually enter 
the dungeon and begin their adventure. It’s twice the size of the 
other tiles. The Start tile actually consists of two separate tiles 
that are already connected; treat each as its own tile for pur-
poses of movement and counting tiles.
Unexplored Edge: A Dungeon tile with an unexplored edge is a 
tile where you could place a new tile. This means that an edge 
of the tile is open and doesn’t have another tile adjacent to it.
Tiles and Squares
Game cards refer to both tiles and squares. 
A tile is the basic building block of the dungeon, drawn from 
the Cavern Tile stack.
A square is one of the spaces on a Cavern tile.
Diagonal Movement: Your Hero can move diagonally when 
moving by squares, unless the path is blocked. Your Hero 
cannot move diagonally when moving by tiles. If you are count-
ing squares, you can move diagonally, even between tiles. If you 
are counting tiles, you never count diagonally; you have to move 
in straight lines, not diagonal lines, when you count tiles.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 6
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 6

AT—WILL POWER
RA
AT
65/200
AT—WILL POWER
+6
Attack 1 adjacent Monster, then 
place your Stance token on this card.
You can remove your Stance token from 
this card when an adjacent Monster hits 
your Hero. If you do, reduce the damage 
from that attack by 1.
This elven blade, set with a star-cut sapphire, 
magically protects its wielder.
TWINKLE
Wizards of th
ACK
ove your Stan
en an adjace
f you do, red
tack by 1.
oken from 
Flip This Card Over After Use.
DAILY POWER
+6
Miss: 1 damage
Attack 1 adjacent Monster, then 
attack 1 adjacent Monster.
Drizzt’s two scimitars ﬂash.
TWIN STRIKE
Hero card face
Hero card back
fter Us
ss: 1 damage
178/200
UTILITY POWER
Use instead of attacking. Place your 
Stance token on this card.
You can remove your Stance token 
from this card at the start of any Villain 
Phase. If you do, move your Hero up to 
his or her Speed and that Hero can use 
an At-Will attack power.
“First blood is mine.”—Artemis
“Last blood counts for more.”—Drizzt
LAST BLOOD
PLAYER TURN
Each player’s turn consists of three phases. On your turn, com-
plete these phases in this order:
 
✦Hero Phase
 
✦Exploration Phase
 
✦Villain Phase
Hero Phase
This is the phase in which your Hero moves through the 
dungeon and makes attacks against the Monsters encountered 
along the way.
1. If your Hero has 0 Hit Points, use a Healing Surge token if 
one is available (see page 10).
2. Perform one of the following actions:
 
✦Move and then make an attack.
 
✦Attack and then move.
 
✦Make two moves.
When you have ﬁ nished all the steps in your Hero Phase, your 
Exploration Phase begins.
Exploration Phase
This is the phase in which you add new Cavern tiles, draw 
Monster cards, and place Monsters.
1. If your Hero occupies a square along an unexplored edge 
(see page 6), go on to Step 2.
 If your Hero doesn’t occupy a square along an unexplored 
edge, you don’t draw and place a new Cavern tile. In this 
case, go on to the Villain Phase.
2. Draw a Cavern tile and place it with its triangle 
pointing to the unexplored edge of the tile your Hero is 
exploring from.
3. Place a Monster on the new tile. To place a Monster, draw 
a Monster card and place it in front of you to show that 
you control that Monster. Place the corresponding Monster 
ﬁ gure on the mushroom patch of the newly placed Cavern 
tile. (The name of each Monster is printed on each ﬁ gure’s 
base.) If you draw a Monster card that matches a Monster 
you already control, discard that Monster card and draw 
again. If another player has a matching Monster card, 
however, that’s okay.
When you have ﬁ nished all the steps in your Exploration Phase, 
your Villain Phase begins.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 7
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 7

B
C
D
Villain Phase
This is the phase in which you draw and play Encounter cards, 
as well as when you activate the Villain (if the Villain is in play) 
and any Monster and Trap cards you have in front of you.
1. If you didn’t place a Cavern tile in your Exploration Phase, 
or if you placed a Cavern tile with a black triangle, draw 
and play an Encounter card.
2. If the Villain is in play, activate the Villain. (There could be 
more than one Villain in play, depending on the adventure. 
In this case, activate each Villain, one at a time.)
3. Activate each Monster and Trap Card, in turn, in the 
order you drew them. Follow the tactics on the Monster 
Card to determine what each Monster does on its turn. 
If there are multiple Monsters with the exact same name 
in play, activate each of those Monsters on your turn. So, 
if you have a Goblin Archer Monster Card and another 
player has a Goblin Archer Monster Card, you activate 
both Goblins during your Villain Phase. If both Monsters 
survive until the other player’s Villain Phase, that player 
will activate both Goblins again!
When you are done with your Villain Phase, the player to your 
left begins his or her turn.
MOVEMENT
When you take a move action, your Hero moves through the 
dungeon to attack Monsters, explore, and achieve the adven-
ture’s objective. Use the following rules for movement.
If a creature with a base larger than one square is on more than 
one tile, it counts as being on all the tiles that the base is on. For 
example, Errtu counts as being on all the blue tiles. All the green 
tiles are one tile away from Errtu.
When Do You Move?
Your Hero usually moves during the Hero Phase of your turn.
The eff ect of a Power card, Treasure card, or Encounter card can 
make your Hero move at other times, as well.
How Do You Move?
Your Hero moves according to his or her Speed, which is the 
number of squares you can move your Hero when you take a 
move action.
Think of your Hero’s Speed as your movement budget. Each 
time your Hero moves a square, you spend 1 point from that 
budget. When you have no more Speed left, your Hero can’t 
move any more. 
Each turn, you can spend up to your Speed budget to move 
your Hero. Your Hero can attack either before or after moving, 
or move twice instead of making an attack.
✦ Your Hero can move in any direction, including diagonally, 
as long as you have the necessary Speed to spend.
✦ You can’t move your Hero into a square ﬁ lled with a wall.
✦ You can’t move your Hero into a square occupied by a 
Monster.
✦ You can move your Hero through a square occupied by 
another Hero, but you can’t end your movement there.
You can move your Hero to any square, even diagonal ones, with a 
few minor exceptions. You cannot enter a square with a monster (A). 
You can move around walls but cannot enter a wall square (B). You 
cannot move between two adjacent walls (C). You cannot end your 
move in another Hero’s square (D).
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 8
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 8

At-Will Powers
At-Will powers are relatively simple 
attacks, spells, or prayers. Using an 
At-Will power requires no special eff ort. It is weaker than a 
daily power, so when you use it you do not ﬂ ip it over. You can 
use it again on your next turn.
Daily Powers
Daily powers represent a signiﬁ cant attack or a spectacular eff ect. 
When you use a Daily power, you ﬂ ip it over and cannot use it 
again until some other eff ect (usually a Treasure card) allows you 
to ﬂ ip it back up. Daily powers are the strongest attacks you have 
access to in the game.
Utility Powers
Utility powers are special maneuvers that don’t actively attack 
Monsters but instead provide other advantages. These advan-
tages include a specialized move or the ability to counter a 
Monster’s attack. Many of these powers don’t require an attack 
action to use, instead specifying when to use the ability. Unless 
the card states otherwise, when you use a Utility power, you ﬂ ip 
it over and cannot use it again until some other eff ect (usually a 
Treasure Card) allows you to ﬂ ip it back up.
COMBAT
As your Heroes journey through the Underdark, they will 
encounter drow, goblins, and other Monsters. You must defeat 
these Monsters before they defeat you! 
Targeting
When you decide to attack, ﬁ rst determine which Monsters 
your Hero can target. A power speciﬁ es what Monsters you can 
target, ranging from only Monsters in an adjacent square to a 
Monster as far as 3 tiles away.
Remember the diff erence between squares and tiles when 
making attacks (see page 6).
Most important, keep in mind that you can never trace a 
diagonal path between tiles. If a power lets you attack a 
Monster within 1 tile of you, that does not include Monsters 
on a Cavern tile that is diagonal to yours. You also cannot attack 
a Monster within 1 tile of your Hero if a wall completely blocks 
paths between the Hero’s tile and the Monster’s tile.
AC and HP
The AC (Armor Class) of a Hero or a Monster determines how 
diffi cult it is to hit. It represents a combination of physical armor, 
agility, and natural toughness. HP (Hit Points) show how much 
damage a Hero or Monster can take before being defeated.
Condition: Immobilized
The sticky ﬁ lament hurled by a cave ﬁ sher wraps itself around 
a Hero. The magical spellweb cast by a yochlol ensnares the 
group. These attacks and others like them cause a Hero to be 
Immobilized.
 
✦If your Hero becomes Immobilized, put an Immobilized 
marker on your Hero card. You can have only one 
Immobilized marker on your Hero card at a time.
 
✦While your Hero is Immobilized, his or her Speed 
is reduced to 0—that Hero can’t move! However, 
Immobilized Heroes can still swap positions with other 
ﬁ gures or be placed in new positions.
 
✦At the end of your Hero Phase, discard the 
Immobilized marker. 
Condition: Poisoned
A swarm of spiders injects toxin into a wound. The poisonous 
spores from a baruchie colony invade a Hero’s lungs. These 
attacks and others like them cause a Hero to be Poisoned.
 
✦If your Hero becomes Poisoned, put a Poisoned marker on 
your Hero card. You can have only one Poisoned marker 
on your Hero card at a time.
 
✦While Poisoned, your Hero takes 1 damage at the begin-
ning of your Hero Phase. Take this damage before using 
any Treasure cards and before checking to see if your Hero 
must spend a Healing Surge.
 
✦At the end of your Hero Phase, your roll the die. If the 
result is 10 or higher, discard the Poisoned marker.
ATTACKS
A Hero makes attacks using either his or her Hero’s Power cards 
or the powers of Treasure cards. Most Power cards are related 
to the Hero’s class, but some Heroes also have a racial power 
(such as the drow’s Cloud of Darkness).
At the start of every adventure, you select Power cards that you 
have available for that adventure. Set the remaining Power cards 
aside. For your ﬁ rst few adventures, use the Power cards listed at 
the front of the adventure book. Once you become familiar with 
the game, you can select which Power cards you want to use.
Whenever you attack, you pick a power you have in front of 
you (either from a Power card or a Treasure card) and use it as 
described in Combat (below).
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 9
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 9

Attack Bonus
Most attack powers and Monster attacks have an attack bonus. 
A power with a higher attack bonus is more likely to hit than 
one with a lower bonus.
Making an Attack
For each enemy a Hero’s power or a Monster’s attack targets, 
roll the die and add the power’s attack bonus.
If the result of the die roll plus the bonus is equal to or greater 
than the target’s Armor Class, the attack hits.
Certain cards and other game eff ects say “Use instead of attack-
ing.” If a Hero (such as Drizzt) can attack more than once in a 
turn, or attack when it’s not his or her turn, such an eff ect can 
replace that attack. 
Damage
If an attack hits, it deals the listed damage to the Monster or 
Hero. Damage that reduces a Monster’s Hit Points to 0 defeats 
that Monster. Damage that does not reduce a Monster or Hero 
to 0 Hit Points stays on that Monster or Hero (use the Hit Point 
tokens to track damage). Some Monsters have powers that let 
them heal damage. Many Hero powers allow you to heal vary-
ing amounts of damage that one or more Heroes have suff ered.
Defeating Monsters
If a Monster’s Hit Points are reduced to 0, the Monster is 
defeated. Remove its ﬁ gure from the tile. The player controlling 
that Monster discards the Monster card into the Experience 
pile (see page 14). If more than one Hero controls that type of 
Monster, the player who made the attack discards the card if 
he or she controls one of those Monsters. If not, go clockwise 
around the table. The ﬁ rst player you reach who controls one of 
those Monsters discards that Monster card.
When your Hero defeats a Monster, draw a Treasure card (see 
page 13). You can draw only one Treasure card per turn, no 
matter how many Monsters you defeat during that turn.
Defeating Heroes
When a Hero is reduced to 0 Hit Points, keep the Hero’s ﬁ gure 
on the tile. Knock the ﬁ gure on its side to show that the Hero 
is at 0 Hit Points. Monsters ignore the downed Hero, and the 
Hero cannot take any additional damage or use any powers or 
items. Conditions, such as Immobilized or Poisoned, still apply 
to the Hero. If the Hero is healed before the start of his or her 
turn, stand the ﬁ gure up—the Hero is back in the ﬁ ght and can 
use powers and items normally.
A Hero that starts his or her turn at 0 Hit Points must spend 
a Healing Surge token. If there are no Healing Surge tokens 
remaining, the Heroes lose the adventure.
Healing Surges
A Healing Surge represents a Hero’s ability to ﬁ ght on against 
overwhelming odds. Despite pain and injuries, a Hero can push 
forward to continue the battle. The Heroes begin the game with 
a number of Healing Surge tokens. These tokens are a resource 
that the entire group shares. You use Healing Surge tokens to 
revive a Hero that has been reduced to 0 Hit Points.
 
✦If your Hero is at 0 Hit Points at the start of your turn, 
you must use a Healing Surge token. Discard one Healing 
Surge token and regain Hit Points equal to your Hero’s 
Surge Value. You then take your turn as normal. 
 
✦If there are no Healing Surge tokens remaining when your 
Hero starts your turn at 0 Hit Points, the Heroes lose the 
adventure and the game ends.
Other Actions
Moving and attacking are the most common types of actions 
that a Hero takes, but there are other things a Hero can do.
Picking Up and Dropping Objects
Some adventures instruct you to place an object (represented 
by a token) on a tile. To pick up an object, your Hero needs to 
be in any square adjacent to the object during your Hero Phase. 
Likewise, to drop a carried object, the carrying Hero just needs 
to be in a square adjacent to the location he or she wants to 
drop it. Your Hero can carry any number of objects. Picking up 
or dropping an object does not take an action. You can even 
pick up or drop objects in the middle of a move.
Destroying Objects
An adventure might specify that an object needs to be 
 destroyed to win a particular scenario. If the object has an 
Armor Class and Hit Points, your Hero can target it just like a 
Monster. If your Hero has a power that attacks all Monsters on 
a speciﬁ c tile, it can also attack an object on that tile. Once you 
deal damage equal to its number of Hit Points, you destroy the 
object and remove its marker from the tile.
Monster Hit Point token
Hit Point token
Healing Surge token
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 10
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 10

1 EXPERIENCE
AC
HP
+7
TACTICS
✦ If the Goblin 
Cutter is within 1 
tile of a Hero, it moves 
adjacent to the closest 
Hero and attacks that Hero with a 
crude dagger.
✦ Otherwise, the Goblin Cutter 
moves 1 tile toward the Hero with the 
fewest Hit Points remaining.
GOBLIN
GOBLIN CUTTER
1 EXP
ATTA
CK
11 Wizards 
+7
wise, the G
tile toward th
Hit Points rem
ith the
30/200
4 EXPERIENCE
AC
HP
and move the Hero 2 tiles
+8
TACTICS
✦ If the Feral Troll is 
within 1 tile of a Hero, 
it moves adjacent to the 
closest Hero and attacks that 
Hero with a nasty claw. After the attack, 
pass this card to the player on your right. 
✦ Otherwise, the Feral Troll regains all 
lost Hit Points and moves 1 tile toward 
the Hero with the fewest Hit Points 
remaining. After the move, pass this 
card to the player on your right. 
TROLL
FERAL TROLL
THE MONSTER DECK
The Monster Deck randomly determines the Monsters that 
cross the Heroes’ path as they explore the dungeon.
Each Monster Card shows a Monster’s defenses and attacks. 
Villain cards represent especially tough “boss” monsters but 
otherwise follow the same rules.
 
Monster Name and Type: This shows the name of the 
 
creature and what kind of creature it is.
 
AC: This is the Monster’s Armor Class, its defense score 
 
(see page 9).
 
HP: This is the Monster’s Hit Points, its health score 
 
(see page 9).
 
 Special Ability: If the Monster has a special ability, 
it is shown here.
 
Experience: This is how many Experience Points the 
 
Monster is worth when you defeat it (see page 14).
 
 Tactics: Each Monster card provides a Monster’s tactics. 
The tactics are a script that shows you what the Monster 
does when you activate it during your Villain Phase.
 
✦The Monster’s tactics are presented as a list. Each possible 
tactic for the Monster starts with a statement. If that state-
ment is true, the Monster uses the resulting tactic.
 
✦If the statement is not true, go on to the next statement. 
The ﬁ nal entry in the tactics list is a default action that the 
Monster follows if no other statements are true.
 
✦If the tactic requires the Monster to move to a new tile, 
place the Monster on the new tile’s mushroom patch if 
that square is empty. Whenever possible, Monsters move 
from tile to tile by following the mushroom patches. If the 
mushroom patch square is occupied, place the Monster 
anywhere on the tile.
 
✦Once a Monster has selected and followed one set of 
tactics, the Monster’s turn ends. Do not continue to check 
its remaining tactics that turn.
 
✦ Sometimes a Monster requires you to place a new 
Monster. Add that Monster card to the end of any Monster 
cards you control. The new Monster acts during your 
Villain Phase.
Disabling Traps
A Trap from an Encounter card can be disabled. While a Hero is 
on a tile with a Trap, he or she can attempt to disable that Trap 
instead of attacking. If you roll the number listed on the Trap 
card or higher, discard the Trap card and its marker.
Escaping the Dungeon
Some adventures require Heroes to escape from the dungeon. 
To escape from the dungeon, your Hero needs to be on the 
speciﬁ ed location (such as the ladder square on the Start tile 
or the stairs on the Surface Hollow tile) at the end of your Hero 
Phase. Unless the adventure speciﬁ es otherwise, once your 
Hero has escaped from the dungeon, you no longer take your 
Hero Phase or Exploration Phase, or draw Encounter cards, but 
you do continue to take your Villain Phase and activate any 
Monster cards or Trap cards that you control.
Villain 
Monster 
Monster 
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 11
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 11

Encounter 
Encounter 
r 
EVENT—ATTACK
Discard after playing.
+8
Immobilized
Attack each Hero on your Hero’s tile.
A snare of webs halts Lolth’s foes.
SPELLWEB
AGE
lized
EVENT
Discard after playing.
Each Hero within 1 tile of a Volcanic 
Vent tile takes 1 damage.
Spouting lava burns your ﬂesh.
VOLCANIC SPRAY
M & © 20
ro within
takes 1
burns your ﬂ
© 2
9/200
CURSE
9/200
At the end of your Hero Phase, your 
Hero can take 1 damage to 
discard this card.
Your Hero is cursed! Place this card 
on your Hero card as a reminder.
Each Hero with at least 1 Curse 
(including yours) takes 1 damage 
when this card is played.
The Spider Queen desires nothing but your death.
MARK OF LOLTH
THE ENCOUNTER DECK
The Encounter deck represents the Events, Traps, and other 
threats that inhabit the Underdark. There are several types of 
Encounter cards, each with its own special rules. Whenever you 
draw an Encounter card, apply its eff ects immediately.
You can cancel an Encounter Card before applying its eff ects by 
spending Experience Points (see page 14).
“Active Hero” and “Your Hero”: Some Encounter cards use 
the phrase “your Hero.” The card aff ects the Hero played by 
the player who drew the card. Encounter cards in other D&D 
Adventure System games use “the active Hero” instead, but this 
text always refers to the Hero of the player who drew the card.
Other game eff ects that refer to “the active Hero” aff ect which-
ever Hero is taking a turn when they take place.
Curses: Some Encounter Cards represent a curse that aff ects 
a single Hero. Place a Curse card on top of your Hero card to 
remember its eff ect. Curses last a short time, as described on 
their cards.
Events: An Event card is a strange occurrence, a dreadful sight or 
sound, or some other incident that befalls your Hero. An Event 
takes place when you draw the card unless you cancel it with 
Experience Points. Once you have resolved the Event, discard it.
Most Events are yellow cards. A few Events include an attack 
roll against one or more Heroes. These events appear on red 
cards and are called Event—Attacks to distinguish them from 
the Events that don’t include an attack roll.
Traps: A Trap is a snare or other device placed in the Underdark 
to injure and hamper the Heroes. Each Trap card has a corre-
sponding marker. When you draw a Trap card, place the Trap’s 
marker on your Hero’s tile. If there is already a Trap marker 
there, discard the Trap card you just drew and draw another 
Encounter card.
After placing the Trap marker, put the Trap card in front of 
you with any other Monster cards and Trap cards you control. 
During your Villain Phase, the Trap activates like a Monster. 
Unlike Monsters, Traps lack tactics. Instead, a Trap takes the 
actions listed on its card. A Trap might attack all the Heroes on 
its tile, or it might attack the Hero closest to it. A Trap attacks 
just like a Monster.
Disabling Traps: A Hero can disable a Trap instead of attack-
ing, as described on page 10. If the Hero can make more than 
one attack in a turn, the disable attempt can replace any of 
those attacks.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 12
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 12

FORTUNE
Play immediately.
You couldn’t have come this far without learning 
something.
1 EXPERIENCE
This card counts as 1 Experience Point. 
Put it in the Experience pile, and 
discard this card when the party uses 
it for Experience.
HARROWED EXPERIENCE
& © 2
W
ERIENCE
ITEM
Price: 600 gold
Discard after use.
Use during your Hero Phase.
Your Hero or 1 adjacent Hero regains 
2 Hit Points.
This glass vial contains a thin liquid that tastes like 
honey.
POTION OF HEALING
THE TREASURE DECK
The Treasure deck represents the magic items and other valu-
ables you can ﬁ nd in the clutches of your defeated enemies. 
Once per turn, you can draw a Treasure card when you defeat a 
Monster. If you defeat more than one Monster in a turn, you still 
draw just a single Treasure card.
You can beneﬁ t from multiple Treasure cards in play that apply 
to your Hero. For example, you can use both a Fortune and an 
Item to increase the bonus to an attack roll. 
The only exception to this rule applies to Items that provide 
attack or defense bonuses. A Hero can gain only one attack 
bonus and one defense bonus from Items at a time.
When you use a Treasure card, follow the rules stated on it. The 
Treasure card also explains when you can use it.
This game includes two types of Treasure cards.
 
✦Fortunes are played immediately and provide an immedi-
ate beneﬁ t. If the beneﬁ t has no eff ect, nothing happens. 
Discard a Fortune Treasure card immediately.
 
✦Items provide a lasting beneﬁ t. When you draw an Item 
Treasure card, decide if you want to keep it for your Hero 
or if you want to give it to another Hero. Place the Item 
Treasure card in front of that Hero’s player. Once you’ve 
decided who gets the Item, you can’t give it to another 
Hero later.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 13
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 13

Value. It also allows you to choose a new Daily power, and your 
Hero gains the special ability to make critical attacks (shown on 
the Hero card).
In addition to the natural roll of 20, the Battleﬁ eld Promotion 
Treasure card also provides an opportunity to level up your 
Hero.
RULES FOR LATER 
ADVENTURES
Once you have played the ﬁ rst two adventures and are com-
fortable with the rules, try the rest of the adventures in the 
adventure book. Here are rules for your later games.
The Advanced Deck
The Legend of Drizzt board game includes two decks of cards. 
For your ﬁ rst couple of games, just use the Starting Deck (cards 
1–100). Adventures 1 through 4 need only this deck. For 
Adventures 5 and beyond, you will need the Advanced Deck 
(cards 101–200), which adds more cards and introduces more 
complex eff ects.
Choosing Power Cards
Once you have a better understanding of the game, you don’t 
have to stick to the suggested Power cards for your Hero listed 
in the front of the adventure book. Each 1st-Level Hero card 
tells you how many powers of each type you get—you can 
choose which At-Will, Utility, and Daily Power cards you want 
to use for any particular Adventure. 
For a slightly easier game, choose the Power cards you want. 
This way you can set up the perfect balance of powers and 
you’ll know exactly what to expect from your Hero.
For a slightly more challenging game, choose your Power card 
in each category randomly. You’ll have the fun of ﬁ guring out 
how to get the most out of surprising combinations of powers 
using this method of selection.
OPTIONAL RULES
Some adventures make use of optional rules and include some 
or all of the pieces we suggested you set aside during setup (see 
page 4). Here’s a brief rundown on some of these rules.
Some adventures use these special tiles, which close off some 
unexplored edges.
Creating a Pre-Built Cavern Complex
Some adventures require you to create a ﬁ nite cavern complex 
before you begin play. To do this, follow these instructions.
EXPERIENCE POINTS
Heroes earn Experience Points by defeating Monsters. When 
you defeat a Monster, the Hero who controls it puts that 
Monster card in the Heroes’ Experience pile. Each Monster card 
lists the Experience Points it provides. The tougher the Monster, 
the more Experience Points it provides.
The Heroes can spend Experience Points in two ways:
✦ To cancel an Encounter card
✦ To level up
Canceling Encounter Cards
Canceling an Encounter card represents using the hard-fought 
experience your Hero has gained to avoid danger. For example, 
your Hero spots a Trap and disables it before it activates, or 
avoids an Event before it inﬂ icts any injuries.
Whenever you draw an Encounter card, you can spend a total of 
5 Experience Points to cancel it. The Monster cards you choose 
from your Experience pile must add up to at least 5 Experience 
Points. Discard the cards after you spend them. You can’t use 
any excess points from one cancellation in a later turn.
When you cancel an Encounter card, discard it and ignore its 
eff ects. You can cancel an Encounter card only when you draw 
it. Once the card comes into play, you cannot cancel it on a 
later turn.
Example: There are three Monsters worth 3 Experience each 
and one Monster worth 2 Experience in the Heroes’ Experience 
pile. If you want to cancel an Encounter card, you could spend 
one 3-point Monster card and the 2-point Monster card. That 
would leave you with two 3-point Monster cards in the pile. If 
you then wanted to cancel another Encounter card, you would 
have to spend the two 3-point Monsters. Even though you have 
6 total Experience Points and need to spend only 5, you don’t 
have the right mix of cards to make exactly 5. The extra point is 
wasted and both cards are discarded, though you still cancel 
the Encounter card.
Leveling Up
A Hero starts play at 1st level. Whenever a Hero rolls a natural 
20 when making an attack roll or a disable trap roll, that Hero 
can choose to spend 5 Experience Points to become 2nd level! 
Discard the Monster cards after you spend them. Flip your 1st-
level Hero Card over to the 2nd-level side. Leveling up to 2nd 
level increases your Hero’s Hit Points, Armor Class, and Surge 
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 14
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 14

First, place the Start tile on the table. Shuffl e the Cavern tile 
stack, and then place a Cavern tile next to each unexplored 
edge of the Start tile.
Next, place another Cavern tile next to each unexplored edge, 
as shown here.
Count the number of unexplored edges that remain, and then 
take that many Cavern Edge tiles. If the adventure calls for the 
numbered Fissure tiles, take them before other Cavern Edge tiles. 
Shuffl e the Cavern Edge tiles, and then place a Cavern Edge tile 
next to each unexplored edge in your cavern complex.
You now have a completed cavern complex and can start play-
ing through the adventure.
Blocked Edges
Some adventures call for you to add Cavern Edge tiles to the 
map during play. If you cannot physically place a tile because 
a Cavern Edge tile is in the way, your Hero cannot explore in 
that direction.
Drizzt cannot explore from his current location because the 
 Cavern Edge tile blocks the placement of Cavern tiles on that 
 unexplored edge.
Competitive Adventures
Some adventures direct the players to compete against each 
other. Even in a competitive adventure, a Hero cannot attack 
another Hero unless the adventure so speciﬁ es. 
Team Adventures
A competitive adventure might split the Heroes into teams. A 
team can include a single Hero.
Each team has its own Experience pile. If a new team is cre-
ated in the middle of a game, that team starts with an empty 
Experience pile. The active Hero has the ﬁ nal say on spending 
Experience to cancel Encounter cards or to level up.
Villainous Heroes
Some competitive adventures might involve one or more 
Villainous Heroes. A Villainous Hero counts as both a Villain 
and a Hero, and he or she can use Power cards and Treasure 
cards against other Heroes as if they were Monsters. The other 
Heroes treat Villainous Heroes as Villains. A Villainous Hero 
acts during that player’s Hero Phase, not during each player’s 
Villain Phase.
Villainous Heroes are still susceptible to attacks from Monsters 
and Encounter cards unless otherwise speciﬁ ed by the adventure. 
For more adventures and other optional rules, 
check out www.DungeonsandDragons.com.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 15
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 15

D&D
®D A
® DVENTURE
SYSTEM
COOPERATIVE GAME
G
What does a Monster do when a Hero is at 0 Hit Points?
Monsters ignore Heroes that are at 0 Hit Points. Follow the tactics on 
a Monster’s card as though any Hero at 0 Hit Points were not there. If 
all of the Heroes are at 0 Hit Points during a player’s Villain Phase, the 
Monsters do nothing and the phase ends immediately.
What is a marker?
Markers are 2-inch squares used to show where something is on a 
Cavern or Dungeon tile. Markers represent Hazards, Traps, some 
Items, and some terrain features (such as the Crystal Prison). 
What do we do when we draw all the cards from a deck?
If you play through an entire deck of cards, shuffl e that deck’s discard 
pile and keep playing.
Does each Hero maintain an Experience pile?
Experience is a party resource. There is only one Experience pile, 
which all the Heroes share. Any Hero can choose to spend Experience 
to cancel an Encounter card or to level up. Players should decide 
together when to spend Experience, but the active Hero can always 
choose to spend or not to spend Experience.
I just defeated a Monster by rolling 20. Can I use the Experience 
from that Monster to level up?
Yes.
What’s the diff erence between a Monster and a Villain?
A Villain is a special kind of Monster. Anything that aff ects a Monster 
also aff ects a Villain. 
Do I get Experience for defeating a Villain?
Yes. When you defeat a Villain, add the Villain’s card to the Experience 
pile. That Experience can be spent just like other Monster cards.
My Hero is currently not on a tile due to a Power or Encounter 
card. What happens when another card is drawn that aff ects 
each Hero?
A Hero might be trapped in the Pit or be hiding for a turn. A Hero that 
isn’t on a tile due to the eff ects of a card is not aff ected by other cards 
drawn while he or she is not on a tile.
Sometimes a Monster’s card says to move it adjacent to the closest 
Hero. What do I do if that Monster is already adjacent to a Hero?
You can simply leave the Monster where it is, or you can move it to 
any other unoccupied square adjacent to that Hero.
What do I do when placing a Monster on a tile that has an 
occupied mushroom patch?
You instead place the Monster on any square on that tile.
Where do I put a Monster that I move with one of my Powers or 
Treasure cards?
You can place the Monster in any unoccupied square that meets the 
eff ect’s requirements. For example, Tide of Iron allows you to place 
the Monster on any unoccupied square on any tile within 1 tile of 
your Hero’s current location.
What does “within 1 tile” mean?
An object (such as another ﬁ gure, a token or 
marker, or an unexplored edge) is within 1 tile 
of a ﬁ gure when that object is on the ﬁ gure’s current tile or on a tile 
connected to the ﬁ gure’s current tile. (Diagonally touching tiles are 
not connected.)
The Legend of Drizzt Speciﬁ c Cards
Mark of Lolth (6–10, 108–110): The newly cursed Hero takes 1 
damage when this card is played. A Hero takes only 1 damage when 
a Mark of Lolth card is played, regardless of how many Curse cards 
that Hero has. This damage also applies if a Hero has Curse cards from 
other D&D Adventure System games.
Dinin Do’Urden, Drider (26): If you are playing a solo game, you do 
not pass the card after Dinin acts.
Feral Troll (30, 131): If you are playing a solo game, you do not pass 
the card after the Feral Troll acts.
Hypnotic Spirit (38–39, 135): If your Hero is Immobilized, he or she 
does not move toward the Hypnotic Spirit.
Khazid’hea (46): You do not take the damage from using this power 
until after all attacks are completed. If an eff ect (for example, from 
Battle Trance) allows you to regain Hit Points when attacking, you 
regain the Hit Points before taking the damage from Khazid’hea. 
Ruby Pendant (70): You can deal the 1 damage to any Monster on 
the Monster’s tile, including the Monster targeted by the attack.
Battleﬁ eld Promotion (75): A Hero doesn’t spend Experience to level 
up by using this card.
Drizzt (Ally) (103), Wulfgar (Ally) (107): If no Monster is in play, the 
Ally does nothing.
Hunting Party (138–139): If any of the cards you draw match a 
Monster that you already control, discard that card and draw a new one.
Immobilized: This Condition takes eff ect during your Hero’s move 
action and any time the Hero would move due to some other eff ect. 
Immobilized Heroes can still swap positions with other ﬁ gures or be 
placed in new positions.
Villain Clariﬁ cation
Yochol, Handmaiden of Lolth: This Villain’s card starts with the Drow 
Form side face up. Once the Yochlol takes 5 damage, ﬂ ip over its 
Villain card. It takes 10 total damage to defeat the Yochlol, regardless 
of which side of its Villain card is showing.
Dark Chasm/Underground River
The squares of the chasm or river are impassable to ﬁ gures with bases 
that occupy only 1 square; you cannot place a ﬁ gure in those squares 
or move one through them, only the bridge squares. A larger ﬁ gure, 
such as Errtu or a Feral Troll, can occupy such a square as 
long as the ﬁ gure is also on at least 1 bridge square. A 
Hero cannot use an eff ect to place a Monster in a chasm 
or river square unless the adventure speciﬁ cally 
allows it.
D&D Adventure System FAQ
We’ve scoured the message boards and our personal mailbags to put together this list of frequently asked questions and the appropriate 
answers. Many of these have already been worked into the newest version of the rulebook, but some questions still need answers. So here they 
are. Check out www.DungeonsandDragons.com for the most up-to-date rules and FAQ for the D&D Adventure System board games.
U.S., Canada, Asia Paciﬁ c, & Latin America
www.wizards.com/customerservice
Wizards of the Coast LLC
P.O. Box 707
Renton WA 98057-0707
U.S.A.
Tel: 1-800-324-6496 (within the U.S.)
1-425-204-8069 (outside the U.S.)
U.K., Eire, & South Africa
wizards@hasbro.co.uk
Wizards of the Coast LLC
c/o Hasbro UK Ltd.
Caswell Way, Reevesland Industrial Estate,
Newport NP19 4YH
UK
Tel: +44(0)8457 12 55 99
All Other European Countries
custserv@hasbro.be
Wizards of the Coast p/a Hasbro Belgium NV/SA
Industriallan 1
1702 Groot-Bijgaarden
BELGIUM
Tel: +32.70.233.277
Please retain these addresses for future reference.
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 16
300_35594000_LegODrizzt_Rules r3.indd 16
3/28/11 3:43 PM
3/28/11 3:43 PM