Step 4. Loot
If you encountered the Monster in a room, you draw 1 
Treasure card from the face-down pile of cards corresponding 
to the Level the Monster was on. You also collect any other 
Treasures that were dropped there by Heroes.
If you encountered the Monster in a chamber, you do not 
draw a random Treasure card, but you do collect any Treasures 
that were dropped there by Heroes. 
Wizard Spells
Wizards gain access to Spells that they can cast throughout the 
game. As a Wizard, you start the game with a certain number of 
Spell cards in your hand.
You can play only 1 Spell card per turn. When you do so, discard 
the card. 
Fireball/Lightning Bolt: Each Monster card includes icons for 
the Fireball and Lightning Bolt Spells. Use the number below the 
icon for the corresponding Spell to determine the dice roll needed 
to hit. If you destroy the Monster, move your Hero into its room 
or chamber and loot as normal. If you miss, the Monster does 
not strike back, since your Hero is not in the same space. The 
Monster stays in that room or chamber until it is destroyed 
Teleport: This Spell lets you take shortcuts in the dungeon. You 
can cast Teleport only if your Hero is in a chamber, and only 
before combat. When you play the Spell card, you remove your 
Hero standee from the chamber it is in and place it in another 
chamber on the same Level or one that is 1 lower or higher. (For 
example, if you cast Teleport while in a chamber on Level 4, you 
could move your Hero to any other chamber on Level 3, 4, or 5.) 
If you cast this spell while a Monster is in your starting chamber, 
you do not ght that Monster (even if you just moved there), but 
you must ght any Monster in the chamber you move to.
Regaining Spells
You can never have more Spell cards than you started with, but 
once you have cast some, you can rell your spellbook. If you 
spend your entire turn in the Great Hall, you can select 1 card 
from the Spell piles or the discarded Spell cards and add it to your 
hand. 
Winning the Game
If you end your turn with your Hero in the Great Hall and 
carrying the required amount of Treasure for your class, you win!
Adventurer	
	
Treasure to Win
Cleric	
	10,000 gp
Rogue	
	10,000 gp
Fighter	
	20,000 gp
Wizard	
	30,000 gp
 
 
 
Appendix 1: 
Special Treasure Cards
Most Treasures are simply worth gp, but a few grant special boons 
to the Heroes lucky enough to loot them.
Secret Door Card
This card represents a magic item that allows the Hero carrying it to 
nd and move through secret doors as if they were normal doors.
Using a Secret Door Card: When you draw this card, place it 
face up in front of you. From now on, you don’t roll dice to nd 
secret doors—your Hero just moves through them. Even if you drop 
the Treasure, you still treat all secret doors your Hero previously 
moved through as normal doors for the rest of the game.
ESP Medallion/Crystal Ball
 
You can use an ESP Medallion to nd out what Monster your 
Hero is about to encounter before you enter a room or chamber.
You can use a Crystal Ball to look at the Monster and Treasure in 
any room or chamber in the dungeon. 
Using an ESP Medallion or Crystal Ball: When you draw 
either of these Treasure cards, place it face up in front of you. 
From now on, your Hero can use that card’s power. (No matter 
how many ESP Medallions or Crystal Balls you have in play, you 
can use either power once per turn.)
Sequence of Play
Starting with the rst player, each player takes a complete 
turn. Once a player’s turn is over, the next player to the left 
takes a complete turn. Play continues in this way until the 
game ends.
On your turn, you follow these steps, in order.
1. Move
2. Encounter
3. Combat
4. Loot
Step 1. Move
During this step, your Hero can move up to 5 spaces. A Hero 
can move only into a space that is adjacent to the one he 
or she is in, and can’t cross the walls of rooms or chambers 
(unless a door connects the spaces (see “Doors” below). A 
Hero can choose to move 0 spaces, staying in the space he or 
she started.
Corridor spaces are shown as agstones. Each room and 
chamber (including the Great Hall) counts as a space.
Lose a Turn Tokens
If your Hero has collected one or more Lose a Turn tokens 
on a previous turn, you must discard 1 token before moving. 
Your turn immediately ends. 
Whenever your Hero moves into a room or chamber that has 
not yet been cleared (see “Step 2. Encounter” below), he or 
she must stop. A Hero can move through spaces containing 
other Heroes but cannot stop in the same space as another 
Hero.
Exception: Multiple Heroes can occupy a chamber space. 
The Fighter moves into 1 corridor space, 1 chamber space (the 
Laboratory), 1 more corridor space, and nally into the Crypt. He can 
move through the Laboratory because it has already been cleared (it 
contains 3 Cleared tokens) and through the space with the rst Wizard. 
However, he has to stop in the Crypt (along with the second Wizard) 
because it is not yet cleared, even though he could move 1 more space. 
Many spaces are connected by doors. Most doors are normal 
but a few are secret doors. Don’t count doors as spaces when 
moving. Any Hero can move through a normal door, but in 
order to move through a secret door, you must nd it rst.
To nd a secret door, move your Hero into the space adjacent 
to the door. If that Hero can still move at least 1 space, you 
can attempt to nd the door by rolling 1 die. On a roll of 5 or 
6, you nd the door (Rogues nd secret doors on a roll of 3–6). 
Your Hero can continue moving through the secret door as if 
it was a normal door. Otherwise, you did not nd the door and 
your Hero can move no farther this turn.
Once you nd a secret door, your Hero remembers it for the 
rest of the game. You do not need to nd it a second time if 
your Hero moves back through it later on. (You might wish to 
keep track of the doors you found on a piece of scrap paper.)
Step 2. Encounter
After your Hero has nished moving, he or she encounters 
that space. If your Hero is in a corridor space, a cleared room 
(with 1 Cleared token) or a cleared chamber (with 3 Cleared 
tokens), no Monsters are there. Your turn is over. Otherwise, 
follow the steps below.
A room or chamber can have only 1 Monster in it at a time.
If the room or chamber contains a Monster:
Fight that Monster.
If the room or chamber contains no Monster but is not 
cleared: A Monster attacks! Draw and reveal the top Monster 
card from the pile that matches its Level. If you run out of 
Monster cards for a Level, reshufe the discard pile for that Level.
If the revealed Monster card is not a Cage Trap or Slide Trap, 
proceed to combat (step 3). Otherwise, see the ”It’s a Trap!” 
sidebar.
It’s a Trap!
Two kinds of Monster cards don’t represent creatures. They 
don’t attack you but instead have a special effect.
Trap Reward: First, If your Hero is in a room when a trap 
is drawn, draw 1 Treasure card from the pile corresponding 
to the room’s Level. (Don’t draw a Treasure card in a 
chamber.) Place one Cleared token in the room or chamber 
where the trap was drawn.
Cage Trap: After collecting your treasure, roll 1 die to see 
how long it takes your Hero to break free. On a roll of 1–3, 
take 1 Lose a Turn token. On a roll of 4–6, take 2 Lose a 
Turn tokens. 
Slide Trap: After collecting your treasure, move your Hero 
standee to any chamber on a Level whose number is 1 
higher than the one your Hero is on. (For example, if you 
drew the Slide Trap card on Level 5, move your Hero to 
a chamber on Level 6.) Treat that new chamber as if your 
Hero just moved there, and encounter a Monster if it has 
not been cleared. 
Step 3. Combat
Before you can grab the Treasure, you need to ght the Monsters 
that guard it. You ght just 1 round of combat per turn, which 
occurs in 2 steps.
A. Fight the Monster
B. The Monster strikes back
You can never ght other Heroes.
 
A. Fight the Monster
First, look at the Monster’s card and nd the colored icon that 
corresponds to your Hero’s class. The number below the icon is 
what you have to roll on 2 dice to hit the Monster. If you roll at 
least as high as that number (including any bonus for a Magic 
Sword), you hit and destroy the Monster! If the monster has a 
“–” below your hero’s icon, you cannot attack it unless you have 
a Magic Sword (see “Magic Sword” on page 4).
When you destroy a Monster, remove its card and place a 
Cleared token on the room or chamber it was in. Rooms require 
1 Cleared token to clear out completely; chambers need 3 
Cleared tokens. Once you have completely cleared out a room or 
chamber, no more Monsters will appear there.
Attacking with a Fireball or Lightning Bolt
These Spells let a Wizard attack Monsters from a safe 
distance (see “Wizard Spells” on page 3). To attack a 
Monster with a Spell, you must be able to move your 
Wizard into the Monster’s room or chamber on your turn, 
just as in normal combat. However, you stop moving at the 
door of the room, or in the space adjacent to the chamber, 
and announce that you’re casting the Spell. If a Monster 
isn’t already revealed, you must decide which Spell to use 
before drawing a Monster card.
B. The Monster Strikes Back
If you did not destroy the Monster, it gets a chance to hit you 
back. Roll 2 dice for the Monster’s attack. Refer to the table 
below to see if it hits!
Even if the Monster missed you, combat is over for this turn. 
Place the Monster’s card alongside the game board by the rst 
open numbered slot and place the corresponding Number token 
in its room or chamber to represent that Monster.
Dice 
Roll
Results
Killed! Drop all your Treasure cards. Choose a new 
Hero (or the same one if no other Hero is available) 
and place it on the Great Hall.
Seriously Wounded: Randomly drop half your 
Treasure cards (round up) and place your Hero on 
the Great Hall. 
8–10
Wounded: Drop 1 random Treasure card and move 
your Hero back 1 space in the direction he or she 
came. Take 1 Lose a Turn token. 
6–7
Stunned: Drop 1 random Treasure card.
5 or 
lower
Miss! No effect.
Dropping Treasure: Whenever you drop any Treasure cards, 
place them face up under the card of the Monster that just hit 
your Hero. If you must drop random Treasure cards, shufe up 
all your cards (including any face-up cards in front of you) and 
discard the required number blindly. 
 )  	To use an ESP Medallion, your Hero must be in a space 
adjacent to a room or chamber. Draw a Monster card 
corresponding to the Level of that room or chamber. You 
can use the ESP Medallion in the middle of moving, but if 
you choose to not enter the room or chamber, your Hero 
must stop moving.
 )		
To use a Crystal Ball, your Hero does not move or attack 
on your turn. Instead, choose any room or chamber on 
the board and draw a Monster card (and a Treasure card if 
you chose a room) corresponding to its Level. 
In either case, do not reveal the cards you drew. Place them 
alongside the game board as you would normally, but keep 
them face down. Place the corresponding Number token on 
the room or chamber that you just checked. The next time a 
Hero encounters a face-down Monster card, it is revealed.
Magic Sword
A Magic Sword adds to your attack rolls against Monsters you 
ght. You can have only 1 Magic Sword in play at any time.
Using a Magic Sword: When you draw this card, if you do 
not already have a Magic Sword in play, place the card face 
up in front of you. Roll 2 dice to determine the Magic Sword’s 
enchantment bonus, either +1 or +2 (the card lists the rolls 
needed). Then place a matching Magic Sword token (+1 or +2) 
face up on the card. As long as you have the Magic Sword in 
play, you add its enchantment bonus to all of your attack rolls.
If you already have a Magic Sword in play, keep the card 
you just drew hidden in your hand. Magic Swords still count 
toward your total gp needed to win, whether they are in play 
or not. 
Wizards Cannot Use Magic Swords. If you are playing a 
Wizard and you draw a Magic Sword card, you must keep 
the card in your hand. Its gp value still counts toward your 
total needed to win, but you cannot play it face up in front 
of you for a bonus in combat.
 
Megan drew a Magic Sword card and rolled an 11, so its 
enchantment bonus is +2!
Having a Magic Sword can let you attack a Monster that you 
otherwise couldn’t hit. For example, if you are playing a Rogue 
and encounter a Black Pudding, you normally could not even 
attack it (the Black Pudding card shows a “–“ below the Rogue 
icon). If you have a Magic Sword, you treat the attack number 
as a 13 instead. So if you have a +1 Magic Sword, you could 
hit the Black Pudding with a roll of 12 (or a roll of 11 with a +2 
Magic Sword). 
Dropping a Magic Sword: If dropping random Treasure 
cards forces you to lose a Magic Sword in play and you have 
another one in your hand, you can replace it. Immediately play 
the Magic Sword card from your hand face up in front of you, 
keeping the same enchantment bonus as the one you just lost 
(use the same Magic Sword token). Otherwise, you’ll just have 
to hope you loot another Magic Sword later.
Appendix 2: Solo Play
Want to test yourself against the challenges of the Dungeon! 
Game? Here are three suggested rules variants.
Treasure Hunt
Before you start, draw a random Treasure card from any Level’s 
pile. Shufe it back into that pile and try to nd that Treasure 
before your Hero dies twice. Start off with a Level 1 Treasure; 
as you get better, you can search for loot deeper and deeper 
within the dungeon!
Timed Game
Set a time limit and try to win in the allotted time. Try starting 
with 30 minutes. As you get better, shorten the time limit for a 
greater challenge, to 25, 20, or even 15 minutes!
Become the Hunted
Before you start, draw a random Level 6 Monster card and 
place it face down near the game board. Use one of the other 
Hero standees to represent this Monster, placing it in any 
room on level 6. That Monster is now a Hunter chasing you 
as you attempt to loot the dungeon. Try to win before the 
Hunter kills you!
Hunter Movement: The Hunter takes its turn after you, 
moving 5 spaces each turn. It always treats secret doors as 
normal doors and takes the shortest route to your Hero. The 
Hunter does not have to stop in uncleared rooms or chambers. 
If it moves into the same space as your Hero, reveal the 
Monster card and conduct combat as normal.
Hunter vs. Other Monsters: The Hunter does not attack and 
is not attacked by other Monsters.
Destroying the Hunter: You can attack the Hunter just like 
any other Monster. If you destroy the Hunter, draw a new Level 
6 Monster card and place its Hero standee in a room of your 
choice on that Level. That Monster becomes the new Hunter.
Secret 
Monsters
WILL Appear
Monsters WILL 
NOT Appear
Corridors
Chamber
Room