LLC

T
argane is a planet inhabited by an incalculable number of crea-
tures, each one more amazing than the next. The most influen-
tial character (and certainly the most powerful) is a human
known by the name of the Arch-Mage. Legend says that the Arch-
Mage, supreme magician, would be the most powerful of all the sorce-
rers on the planet Targane. All his life, he has struggled to learn magic
and to uncover its deepest secrets. Now that he has mastered every
spell known to man, his quest for knowledge has driven him to discover
the ultimate power… immortality. 
There are certain elves who think that the Arch-Mage must currently
be around 3000 years old. This is a long life for someone who has
already enjoyed all the pleasures of this world, has already discovered
all its secrets, and can control anything he wishes.
The Arch-Mage’s wealth is certainly equal to his power. As he neared his
thousandth year of existence, he decided to create a kingdom for him-
self. A vast territory made up of multiple regions. Already having maste-
red the teleportation spell, he now wanted to be able to travel to new pla-
ces with ease, as boredom soon fueled his desire to visit new landscapes. 
He is an ally to some but hated by others. He possesses highly fortified
castles and fortresses in any of the regions he wishes to visit. Once he settles
in a region, he can casually and calmly take control using either money,
diplomacy or force. The Arch-Mage copes with his centuries-old boredom
by vacationing in his many castles. But 3000 years is a long time . . .
He needed to find something else to keep him from dying of boredom.
So a very novel idea, at least for this era, came to him . . .
He enlisted the dwarves and gnomes to dig and build labyrinths
equipped with mechanical rooms in the catacombs of his many
castles across the world. Each labyrinth took several years to
build, so he started several at once. And thus were born the
underground labyrinths: the Dungeon Twisters, in which the smell of
blood mixes with the dampness of sweat of the combatants. 
Once the labyrinths were complete, the Arch-Mage placed small magic crystal balls at each
angle of the hallways. And in the grandest, most opulent room of his estate, he covered the walls with magic mirrors.
Each of these mirrors reflects what is happening in the hallway. The Arch-Mage, comfortably settled in the center of
the room, can now observe every corner of the labyrinth. 
Bursting with magical energy, he used his powers of teleportation to bring the combatants of his choice into the arena,
no matter what their race, trade or gender . . . Living beings that he found more or less at the drop of a hat, either in
this area or in neighboring regions. These poor characters, creatures, adventurers or animals found themselves sud-
denly separated from their natural environment and thrown into an incomprehensible nightmare. They must dodge
traps, fight, understand the labyrinth and find a way out. 
And all this occurs under the watchful eye of the Arch-Mage. Without knowing it, these unfortunate victims are now
actors in a bloody spectacle that serves as entertainment for the Arch-Mage. And even if they succeed, whether
through violence or a surprising escape, none of the victorious creatures will hear the Arch-Mage’s applause…

Introduction
Dungeon TwisterTM will allow you to control a group of
captured adventurers in the Dungeon of the rich and power-
ful Wizard. He teleported you into his catacombs simply to
amuse himself by watching you fight to escape from his
infernal mechanical labyrinth. But you are also going to have
to fight to survive the attacks of your adversaries, for they
too are trying to escape. 
Contents
A basic set contains:
• 8 square rooms.
• 2 starting lines (1 per player).
• 2 quick-reference screens.
• 2 sets of tokens (one per player) including
each 8 characters and 6 objects.
• 2 sets of 8 cardboard figurines
and 16 plastic bases.
• 2 decks of cards (16 cards per
player) each containing 9
Combat cards, 3 Jump cards
and 4 Action cards.
• Several “broken” and “open”
Portcullis markers.
• Several markers to keep track of Actions
carried out during play.
• 1 rule book.
Number of players
A basic set allows you to play a 2-players
game. Each Dungeon Twister expan-
sion box offers new rooms, new
characters and new objects. The
rules 
laid 
out 
here 
are
designed for experienced
players. You will find a sim-
plified version of the game
at the end of the rules. 
Object of the game
• The first player who earns 5 Victory Points (hereafter
referred to as VP) is the winner.
• You earn 1 VP when you eliminate an opponent's character.
• You earn 1 VP when one of your characters escapes
from the labyrinth.
• If one of your characters escapes from the labyrinth with
the Treasure, the treasure is worth 1 extra VP.
• The Goblin is worth 2 VP upon his escape from the
labyrinth (other characters earn only 1 VP).
• You can only escape from the labyrinth by crossing
through the starting line of the opponent.
• Each player must place in front of himself, and outside of
the labyrinth, the characters he has eliminated, his
Treasures and the characters he has successfully freed
from the labyrinth, so that the VP earned are always visi-
ble to the other players.
Game set-up
Shuffle the 8 rooms without looking at them and place
them face down to build a rectangular board with a length of
4 rooms and a width of 2 rooms. Each player chooses a color
and places his starting line in front of him at the end of the
labyrinth (see figure 1). 
Each player unfolds that color’s screen in front of him and
hides behind it the 14 tokens matching his color (8 characters
and 6 objects). He also takes the 16 cards matching his color
and place them in front of him in one face down pile. These 16
cards are always considered as being in the hand of the player.
Each time the player must play a card, he may choose the
card he wants from his deck of remaining cards. Players never
draw cards at random.
Choosing Your Starting Team
Each player now secretly chooses his starting team of 4
characters from the 8 characters available to him. When he
has made his choice, he places them, face down, on the
starting line, on the 4 large dots corresponding to his color.
ACTIONS
COMBAT
OPEN
BROKEN
JUMP

Placing the remaining tokens
Randomly determine who will go first in this phase.
Starting with the first player, players take turns placing one
of their remaining tokens face-down in the room of their
choice. A token can be placed in any room as long as the
maximum number of tokens for this room is not exceeded
(see figure 1). This means that there can be different colored
tokens in the same room. All tokens must be placed face-
down. Players continue until all the remaining tokens have
been placed. When finished, the maximum capacity of
each room will be reached. It is strictly forbidden to look at
any token that has already been placed in a room (even
your own!).
Once all the tokens have been placed, each player simul-
taneously reveals the 4 characters on his starting line. The
screens can now be laid down and from now on are used as
a player’s quick-reference guide.
Once again, randomly determine who will go first. Players
take turns alternatively.
Order of Play
A player's turn consists of the following 3 phases:
1) Play an Action card.
2) Use all or part of his Actions.
3) If he has no Action cards in hand, he
gets back his 4 Action cards.
The player playing his turn is called the
Active Player.
In Dungeon Twister, no Action, movement or
shot can be performed diagonally!
Phase 1:
playing an Action card
The Active Player chooses an Action card from his deck
and places it face-up in front of him. All of a player’s Action
cards must be stacked together face-up, so that only the
last card played is visible. At the end of a turn, if a player
has no more Action cards, he gets his 4 Action cards back
(see phase 3). This is called a completed Action Card Cycle.
During the first turn, the first player can only play a “2
Actions” card. Then, during the entire duration of the first
Action Cards Cycle, a player can only play a card whose
Actions number is inferior, equal or superior by 1 to the
highest Action card played since the beginning of the game.
This rule only applies to the first Action Card Cycle.
Example: Mike goes first and must play his “2 Actions”
card. Allison goes next and can play her “2
Actions” or “3 Actions” card. She
decides to play her “3 Actions” card.
Mike can now play any card up
to his “4” Action card. If
Allison had only played her
“2 Actions” card, then Mike
could have only played his
“3 Actions” card.
Maximum number of tokens on each room for setup
Starting position of 4 of the blue characters

As soon as a “4 Actions” card has been played, any player
can play any Action card for the rest of the game. 
Phase 2: 
using all or part of your Actions
The Active Player can carry out as many Actions as are
indicated on the Action card he just played. He is never
required to use all of them. Unused Actions are lost and
cannot be saved for the next turn. A “4 Actions” card allows
a player to use 4 Action Points (AP). These AP can be split
between different characters or all used for one character.
Using 1 AP allows you to
• Reveal a room.
• Initiate Combat.
• Rotate a room.
• Use a character’s Special Ability.
• Move one character.
• Use an object.
Golden Rule #1: 
an Action must be fully resolved before
starting a new one.
Starting position of 4 of the yellow characters
8 rooms shuffled and placed face down

Reveal a room
A room can only be revealed (turned face-up) if one of
your characters has direct access to it before it is
revealed (figure 2). All characters on your starting line
have direct access to the first two rooms adjacent to the
starting line. So, both these rooms can be revealed for 1
AP each.
Remove all the tokens on the room to be revealed. Slide
the room to the side from the board’s structure, flip the
room and replace it in the structure face up as indicated in
figure 3. The player revealing the room first places all the
tokens that were on this room except the objects match-
ing his own color. These objects are placed by his opponent
after the revealing player has placed all the other tokens.
All tokens are placed face-up, no more than one per
square. Each token must be placed on an empty floor
square or on a Rotation Gear.
Rotate a room
Each room in the labyrinth is equipped with a complex
wheels and gears mechanism allowing it to rotate. The
Rotation Gear which triggers this movement is represented
by a colored spinning arrow and a number within a square of
each room. Such squares are called Rotation Gear.
For 1 AP, a character standing on a Rotation Gear can
rotate the room 1/4 of a turn in the arrow’s direction. He
can spend 2 AP to rotate 1/2 of a turn, or 3 AP to rotate
3/4 of a turn, etc.
All rooms are matched as colored pairs (they are also
numbered for easier identification), rotating in opposite
direction from each other. A character standing on the
Rotation Gear #1 can also choose to remotely rotate the
other room bearing the same number for 1 AP for each
1/4 of a turn. The targeted room will rotate in the direction
of the arrows printed on its own board. In short, to know
which way the room rotates, look at the arrow printed on
the rotating room. 1 AP only allows you to rotate one
room at a time! You can never rotate two rooms at the
same time.
To rotate a room, slide the room out of the board’s struc-
ture. Rotate the room and put it back into the structure.
When a player rotates a room, he is not allowed to change
his mind if the new game situation isn’t to his liking. None of
the tokens in the room change place during a rotation.
Moving a character
You can use 1 AP to move one of your own characters. The
white number on the left on each character token (Speed)
shows how many squares a character can move for 1 AP (for
example, the Thief can move 5 squares with 1 AP).
You are never forced to use all of your movement points.
You can also give more than one AP to the same character
in order to have it move several times, although one move-
ment must be fully completed before another can start
(first Golden Rule).
ROOM 1
ROOM 2
MEKANORK
The Warrior and the Cleric can reveal room #1. The Wizard can reveal
room #2. The Wall-Walker cannot reveal any room as two walls are
between her and room #1 and 2. The Mekanork cannot reveal any
room as he is standing on a Rotation Gear and is therefore adjacent to
no unrevealed room.

During his movement, a character can:
• Move to any adjacent square (including moving backward).
• Move through objects and wounded characters (friendly
or enemies), even stop on objects and friendly wounded
characters.
• Move through unwounded characters of the same color,
but not stop on them.
• Move through or stop on a Rotation Gear.
• Move through an open or broken Portcullis.
During his movement, a character cannot:
• Move diagonally.
• Move through or stop on a Pit Trap.
• Move through or stop on an enemy character.
• Move through a closed Portcullis.
• Move through a wall.
At the end of his movement, (therefore at the
end of an Action and before starting a new
Action) a character cannot:
• Stand in the same square as another
non wounded character (regardless
of his color).
• Stand in the same square as a
wounded enemy character.
• Stand on a Pit Trap.
• Stand in the same square
as 2 other tokens (regard-
less of their nature).
Golden Rule #2: 
at the end of any Action, there can never be
more than two tokens in the same square.
• 1 Room to reveal.
• 2 Slide the room away from the structure. 
• 3 and 4 Flip the room by lifting on the side you pulled away.
• 5 Room revealed

Broken or Open Portcullis markers are not affected by
this rule as they sit between two squares.
Example: a character carrying an object can pass through
a friendly character also carrying an object, but he can’t
stop there.
Initiate Combat
You need to spend 1 AP to initiate Combat. A character can
attack any adjacent enemy character. You cannot initiate a
Combat through a closed Portcullis or a wall.
Each player selects a Combat card from his hand and
places it face-down in front of him. Both cards are then
revealed simultaneously. Each player adds the card’s value to
his character’s Combat value (black number on the right on
his character token).
The player with the highest total wins the Combat and the
opponent’s character is wounded. Wounded characters are
placed face-down.
In the case of a tie, nothing happens and the player
whose turn it is can decide to spend 1 new AP to initiate a
new Combat. 
All used Combat cards are removed from the game. Gather
them in a single face-down pile. Players are not allowed to look
at these cards. The “Combat +0” card is the only card that the
owner always gets back.
The Active Player cannot attack again a character that has
been wounded during this turn, even if another character did
the wounding.
Group Combat
`
If more than 1 character is adjacent to one or more of his
opponent’s characters, all living (unwounded) characters
must participate in the Combat (see figure 4). The attacking
player adds the Combat value of all his adjacent characters
and the defending player does the same. Although more
than one character is attacking or defending, each player
only plays one Combat card for his team. When the Combat
is over, all the loser’s characters involved in the combat are
wounded and placed face-down. 
In the example (figure 4) the blue player uses 1 AP and
declares that his Warrior is attacking the yellow Wall –Walker.
Since the blue Mekanork is also in contact with the Wall-
Walker, the blue player adds the Combat value of his Warrior
and his Mekanork (3 + 2 = 5). The blue Cleric cannot partici-
pate in this Combat since he is not in contact with any yellow
character. The yellow player’s Wizard and Wall-Walker must
participate in this Combat because they are in contact with the
blue Mekanork. So, the yellow player adds the Combat value
of his Wall-Walker and his Wizard (1 + 1 = 2). Certain of his
victory, the blue player plays a “Combat +0” card. The yellow
player plays a “Combat +4” card. The yellow player wins with a
total of 6 against 5. The blue Warrior and Mekanork tokens
are wounded and placed face-down. Since he is wounded, the
yellow character adjacent to the blue Warrior does not par-
ticipate in the group Combat.
On the other hand, should the blue Warrior have attacked
the wounded yellow character, the group Combat would have
included all 3 yellow characters.
Wounded characters
When a character is wounded, the object he was carrying is
left in the square with him. A wounded character cannot carry
out any Actions. His Combat value is 0 but he is still permitted
to play a Combat card if he is attacked during following turns. If
a wounded character loses a Combat, he is removed from the
game. The player who killed him removes the character token
from the board and places it in front of him as proof of having
earned 1 VP. A wounded character cannot attack or participate
in group Combat. He can only defend himself if he is directly
attacked (you can only attack one wounded character at the
same time). If a wounded character wins a Combat, the attack-
ing character or characters are wounded.
MEKANORK

Use a Character’s Special Ability
Most characters have one or more Special Abilities. Some of
them are permanent and do not require the player to spend
AP to use them; others require 1 AP to be activated. Refer to
the character description to learn about each character's
Special Abilities. Unless otherwise specified, a wounded
character cannot use his Special Abilities, even if they are
permanent Abilities.
Use an Object
Some objects also have permanent Special Effects that do
not require the player to spend AP to use them; others
require 1 AP to be activated. Objects with permanent
Effects always stay on the board. Objects that require AP to
have their Effect activated are removed from the board
once they are used. A wounded character cannot use an
object requiring AP activation since he is not permitted to
carry out an Action.
Objects
Each character can only carry one
object or one wounded charac-
ter of his own color. To pick
up an object or a wounded
character, 
simply 
pass
through or stop on the
square containing it. This
doesn’t require the player
to spend any AP as it is
part of the character’s movement. A character can also
drop an object or wounded character in a square while
carrying out a movement. This also does not require the
player to spend any AP. But, the second Golden Rule must
still be followed and no object or wounded character may
be left on a Pit Trap (unless it is a Rope) or on any other
forbidden square. There can never be two objects on the
same square.
A character moving through a square occupied by a
wounded character (friendly or enemy) and an object can
pick up the object for no AP. If one of your characters
moves through another character of the same color, you
can take, give or trade objects and/or wounded charac-
ters as you wish between the two characters. This does
not cost any AP. However, at the end of any Action, the
second Golden Rule must always be followed (1 charac-
ter + 1 object or 1 character + 1 wounded character
maximum per square).
Blue characters can use and carry Yellow objects and
vice versa.
Objects or wounded characters are always placed under-
neath the token of the character carrying it. At any time,
any player can look at a token underneath a character,
friendly or enemy.
Example: the Yellow Thief is carrying a Rope. The Yellow
Wizard is carrying a Speed Potion and is 4 squares away
from the Thief. The yellow player spends 1 AP to move his
Thief 5 squares. The Thief moves over the Yellow Wizard.
During her movement, the Thief gives the
Wizard her Rope and takes the Speed
Potion. This action does not cost the
player any extra AP, since this is part of
the player’s movement Action (figure 5).
SPEED POTION
THIEF
ROPE
The Thief can move
through the Wizard
but not stop there.
She cannot give him
the Rope but can
trade the Rope with
the Speed Potion,
and keep moving.

Carrying wounded characters
Wounded characters can be carried like objects by charac-
ters of the same color. All rules applicable to objects are
applicable to wounded characters. If a character carrying a
wounded one loses a Combat, the wounded one is removed
from the game (+1 VP for the winner) and the carrier
becomes wounded himself.
Moving a Character out 
of the Labyrinth
As soon as one of your characters moves into any of the
10 squares on your opponent’s starting line, he exits the
labyrinth. Remove it from the game and place it in front of
you to symbolize 1 VP. It is not possible to stay on your
opponent’s starting line or to move once on it. On the other
hand, your characters can move, rest or initiate Combat on
your own starting line.
You can exit the labyrinth by moving through an opponent’s
wounded character standing on his starting line. You can also
initiate Combat against an opponent’s character standing on
his starting line, as long as your attacking character is still in
a room and still in the labyrinth.
If a character leaves the labyrinth while transporting a
wounded character, the wounded character is safe (remove
from the game) but is not worth any VP.
If a character leaves the labyrinth while transporting an
object, this object is removed from the game
unless it is the Treasure which is worth 1
VP (place the Treasure in front of you to
keep track of your extra VP.)
Jump Cards
Each player starts the game with 3 “Jump” cards. You can
use a Jump card to allow any of your characters to jump over
a Pit Trap. Your character can jump over the Pit Trap and
land on a square directly behind it (figure 6). A Jump card
allows you to move two squares: the first square crossed
must be the Pit Trap and the character must then land on a
valid square adjacent to the Pit Trap. A valid square is any
square where the character can complete his movement
while obeying the second Golden Rule.
Playing a Jump card costs 1 AP. The used Jump cards are
removed from the game after use and placed face-down
with the used Combat cards.
It is not permitted to jump over a Pit Trap that is occupied
by a living or wounded character.
Pit Traps and Wounded Characters
Only the Thief or a character carrying a Rope can stand on
a Pit Trap square. A Thief who is wounded on a Pit
Trap dies immediately. A wounded character
standing on a Pit Trap carrying a Rope
can stay on the Pit Trap as long as
he is not killed or picked up by a
friendly character. If a charac-
ter carrying a Rope
is
wounded on a Pit Trap
and another character
moves 
through 
this
square and takes the
Rope, then this wounded
FORBIDDEN JUMP
ALLOWED JUMP

character dies and the player who took the Rope gains 1 VP
for the character he killed. It is not allowed to cause one of
your own characters to die this way.
Phase 3: 
recycling Action cards
If the Active Player no longer has any Action cards in hand,
he gets all of his Action cards back. This player has just carried
out a complete Action card cycle. This is called “recycling”.
Finishing a Game
The game is over when a player earns his fifth VP. The
Active Player can then use all his remaining Actions while
finishing his turn. He can thus continue to earn VP as long as
he is able to. The winner is the player with the greatest num-
ber of VP at the end of this turn.
Optional Rules
USING THE CARDBOARD FIGURINES
As soon as a character is revealed, you can replace his token
with the matching cardboard figurine. When a character is
wounded, replace his figurine by the corresponding token,
face-up. The figurine can be used again as soon as the char-
acter is healed.
PLAYING WITH A TIMER
During a game of Dungeon Twister, choices and possibili-
ties are tremendous and luck is almost non-existent.
Because of this, players can spend a great deal of time
trying to figure out the best strategy.
After a few games, we strongly advise you to play
Dungeon Twister in turns of 2 minutes or less. If you
haven’t carried out all of your Actions by the end of the 2
minutes, the remaining Actions are lost.
If after revealing a room your opponent has to place
objects corresponding to your color, he has 5 seconds to
do so, starting from when you have placed everything you
were required to in this room. After the five seconds are
up and your opponent has not placed the objects, you
get to place the objects yourself.
During a Combat, once you have placed your
Combat card face-down, your opponent has 5 sec-
onds to place his own Combat card. If he doesn’t do
this within 5 seconds, it is considered that he played
his “Combat +0” card.
You get 1 extra minute if one of your character drinks a
Speed Potion. 
PLAYING WITH HIGHER VICTORY SCORES
If you wish to play longer games, we suggest you to
change the number of VP necessary to win from 5 to 6, 7
or even 8. Longer games bring a different dimension to
game play and allow you to use more characters and
objects. A 5 VP game is definitely quicker, but you some-
times don’t get the chance to use some characters.
Players must agree before the beginning of the game
whether they should play for 5, 6, 7 or 8 VP.
A BEGINNER’S GAME (SIMPLIFIED RULES)
The labyrinth is made up of 6 rooms (3 pairs). The start-
ing lines are used according to the Standard Rules. Each
player uses 6 characters and 4 objects. Remove the
Wall-Walker, the Mekanork, the Speed Potion and the
Armor. Each player must place 4 of his characters on his
starting line. Each player must place his 4 objects and the
2 remaining characters on the board, two tokens per
room. The game is played to 5 VP.
HANDICAP
Because Dungeon Twister is not based on luck, it can be
truly difficult for a beginner to win against an experienced
player. It is strongly encouraged that a handicap is given to
the experienced player (like in a game of Go).
The experienced player can play the game with only 4 to
7 characters, depending on the difference in skill
between the two players. 4 characters must always be
placed on the starting line. During a handicap game, the
maximum token capacity of a room may not be reached.
For a greater handicap, the handicapped player can also
remove some higher value Combat cards from his deck
(for example, he might remove the “Combat +5” and
“Combat +6” cards).
Let’s take the example of a very experienced adult
player and a beginning child player. The adult could start
the game with 5 characters and all his cards, except the
“Combat +5” and “Combat +6” cards.
When playing a game with a handicap, a player still wins
with 5 VP. 

Handicap table
Character Descriptions
Cleric
Speed: 4
Strength: 2
Healing
The Cleric can heal a wounded character on an adjacent
square for 1 AP. Flip the wounded character token face-up.
The healed character is not allowed to do anything else during
this turn. The Cleric cannot heal himself and cannot heal a
wounded character that he is carrying: he must drop the
wounded character on an adjacent square before healing
him. The Cleric cannot heal a character through a closed
Portcullis. The Cleric is allowed to heal an enemy character
(although there isn’t much in it for him in a 2 players game!).
Goblin
Speed: 4
Underdog
The Goblin does not have any Special
Ability, but he is worth 2 VP for his owner
when he escapes from the labyrinth. 
Mekanork
Speed: 3
Strength: 2
Craftsmanship
A Mekanork standing on a Rotation Gear is able to rotate
the room in the direction of his choice by using 1 AP per 1/4
of a turn. He can also rotate the matching room (same color,
same number) in the direction of his choice. Only the colors
and numbers concern the Mekanork, he never takes the
direction of the arrows into account.
Thief
Speed: 5
Strength: 2
Deactivating Pit Traps
The Thief can move over and
stop on Pit Traps during her
movement. While the Thief
stands on a Pit Trap, other
characters of the same
color can move over the
Pit Trap without any dif-
ficulty. This Special Ability
does not work if the
Players Level
Very Experienced Player against Experienced Player
Very Experienced Player against Good Player
Very Experienced Player against Beginner Player
+5 & +6
Very Experienced Player against Newbie
+5 & +6
Experienced Player against Good Player
Experienced Player against Beginner Player
Experienced Player against Newbie
Good Player against Beginner Player
Good Player against Newbie
Number of
Characters
Played
Combat Cards
Removed

Thief is wounded on a Pit Trap (if the Thief is wounded on a
Pit Trap and is not carrying a Rope, she dies immediately).
Lock-picking
The Thief can open a closed Portcullis for 1 AP. The Thief
must be on one of the two squares adjacent to the
Portcullis. Place an Open Portcullis marker on the
Portcullis. All characters can now cross this Portcullis. The
Thief can close an open Portcullis for 1 AP. The Thief must
be on one of the two squares adjacent to the Portcullis.
Remove the Open Portcullis marker from the Portcullis. No
character is now allowed to cross this Portcullis until it is
opened again or broken.
Troll
Speed: 2
Strength: 4
Regeneration
When wounded, the Troll can regenerate for 1 AP. Flip his
token face-up. A Troll cannot regenerate during the turn he
was wounded. During the turn he regenerates, the Troll can-
not carry out any additional Action. The Fireball immedi-
ately destroys the Troll and he cannot regenerate. Evidently,
this Special Ability works even when the Troll is wounded. 
Wall-Walker
Speed: 4
Walks through walls
The Wall-Walker can walk through a wall for 1 AP. She must
be in front of the wall, spend 1 AP and move to the adjacent
square on the other side of the wall (see figure 7). This does
not count as a movement, but is considered a separate
Action. This Special Ability does not allow her to reveal a new
room from the other side of a wall (see figure 2). This Special
Ability does not allow her to cross a closed Portcullis.
A Wall-Walker can move through a double wall for 1 AP. A
double wall can appear with two adjacent rooms.
Warrior
Speed: 3
Strength: 3
Breaks Portcullis
A Warrior standing in front of a closed Portcullis can
break it for 1 AP. The Warrior must be on one of the two
squares adjacent to the Portcullis. Place a Broken
Portcullis marker on the Portcullis. The Thief cannot
close this Portcullis. All characters can now cross this
Portcullis.
Wizard
Speed: 4
Levitation
The Wizard has the permanent Special Ability of
Levitation which allows him to move over Pit Traps and
enemy characters (alive or wounded) during his movement
(this does not require the player to spend any AP). How-
ever, he cannot stop on a character or on a Pit Trap (he
must stop on a valid square and follow the second Golden
Rule). This magic Ability qualifies him as a flying character.
Magic User
The Wizard is a Magic User. He can use Scrolls. Scrolls
are special objects that you will find in future expansions.
PORTCULLIS
TRAP
FORBIDDEN MOVE
ALLOWED MOVE

Object Descriptions
Armor
The Combat value of a character wearing
Armor is increased by 1 point (for defense only).
This means that he can only use this bonus when he is
attacked. A wounded character who is wearing an Armor
uses this advantage if attacked.
Fireball Wand
Only the Wizard can use the Fireball Wand
(for 1 AP). Remove the Fireball Wand token
from the game after use. The Fireball immediately
eliminates the first character (living or wounded) in the line
of sight of the Wizard using the wand (the player using the
Fireball Wand chooses the direction of fire). The Fireball
cannot cross walls, closed Portcullis, or characters
(wounded, alive, friendly or enemy). On the other hand, the
Fireball can travel over Pit Traps, objects, Rotation
Wheels and through open or broken Portcullis. A charac-
ter other than the Wizard can carry the Fireball Wand but
cannot use it. The Fireball does not affect objects but if
it hits a character carrying a wounded character, both
characters are killed.
Rope
A character carrying a Rope can move over
and stop on Pit Traps during his turn. Any charac-
ter can move through or stop on a Pit Trap as long as a Rope
is on this square. To place a Rope over a Pit Trap, you need
to have at least two valid squares adjacent to the Pit Trap at
the moment you place the Rope. A valid square, is a square
on which a character can stand. A character that moves
through a Pit Trap containing a Rope can pick up the Rope
during his movement, without spending any AP (he picks up
the Rope while leaving the Pit Trap). 
Speed Potion
A character carrying a Speed Potion can
drink it for 1 AP. This character immediately
receives 4 AP that he must use during the current turn.
Unused AP are lost at the end of the turn. It is possible to
alternate this character’s Actions with your other charac-
ters' Actions. Keep two separate records: one for Actions
used from the Action card since the beginning of your turn
and another one for Actions you earned from the Speed
Potion. Remove the Speed Potion from the game when
you drink it (just before using the 4 AP granted by it).
Sword
The Combat value of a character carrying a
Sword is increased by 1 point (for attack only).
He cannot use this bonus for defense (when he is
defending himself).
The blue Warrior can move
over the Pit Trap where the
Cleric stand as they are both
the same color (blue).
ROPE
TROLL
The Troll can move over the
Pit Trap. He can also pickup
the Rope and continue his
movement carrying it.
FORBIDDEN MOVE
ALLOWED MOVE

Treasure
A Treasure earns a player 1 VP if one of his
characters is carrying it when he leaves the
labyrinth. Place the Treasure in front of you with your other VP.
Game Board Pieces Description
Floor Squares
This is the basic square in Dungeon Twister.
When a room is revealed, objects and charac-
ters can be placed on this type of square.
Portcullis
Portcullis can be opened by the Thief or bro-
ken by the Warrior. As long as they have not
been opened or broken by the aforementioned characters,
characters cannot pass through them. A closed Portcullis
blocks line of sight.
Rotation Gear
Each room contains a Rotation Gear. The
Rotation Gear square is where a character can
rotate the room he is standing in (or the room
with the same number if this room has already been
revealed). When a room is revealed, objects or characters
can be placed on this type of square.
Starting line
This is where you place 4 of your characters at the
beginning of the game. This is also the area your
opponent must reach to escape from the labyrinth.
Even though the starting line squares are blank, they
are not considered floor squares. 
Pit Trap
Pit Trap squares are obstacles and characters
cannot move through them. One can use a
Jump card to jump over them, or use the Rope to
swing over them. A Thief can use her Special Ability to
move over them.
Wall
In general, the labyrinth walls are solid and
cannot be broken. Even the Fireball cannot
destroy them. The Wall-Walker can use her Special Ability
to walk through them. The walls block line of sight.
Glossary
Active Player: the player whose turn it is.
Adjacent: in Dungeon Twister, two squares are only con-
sidered adjacent if they touch each other by a side (and
not by a corner). In short, no Action, movement or shot is
allowed diagonally. Never. Never, never, never. Don’t push it;
begging won’t help!
Empty square: square that does not contain a token or
marker.
Line of sight: a straight line between a character and his
target. A line of sight does not go through walls, characters
(alive or wounded) or closed Portcullis. A line of sight can
pass through an object, a Rotation Gear or a Pit Trap.
Markers: markers are everything that is not a character or an
object. For example: open or broken Portcullis. The second
Golden Rule does not apply to markers.
Obstacle: game element that a character can cross using a
Jump card or using a character or object’s Special Ability. A
Pit Trap is an obstacle. Obstacles do not block line of sight.
Tokens: characters and objects are tokens. There can never
be more than 2 tokens on the same square (1 character
and 1 object or 1 character and 1 friendly wounded charac-
ter for example) at the end of an Action. Cardboard,
pewter or resin figurines are considered tokens if they
replace characters or objects of the game.
Turn: in Dungeon Twister, the word turn is used to repre-
sent one player's turn (phase 1, 2 and 3). A complete
Action Card Cycle for two players is therefore composed of
8 turns (4 turns for the blue player and 4 turns for the yel-
low player).

Object of the Game
• The winner is the first player who earns 5 victory points (VP).
• You earn 1 VP when you eliminate an opposing character.
• You earn 1 VP when one of your characters escapes from the labyrinth.
• The Treasure is worth 1 extra VP if one of your characters escapes from the labyrinth carrying it.
• The Goblin is worth 2 VP when he escapes from the labyrinth (instead of 1 VP for the other characters).
Order of Play
During his turn, a player must complete the 3 following phases 
in the following order:
1) Play an Action card.
2) Use all or some of his Actions.
3) Get his 4 Action cards back in hand if he does not have any left.
Using 1 AP allows you to:
• Reveal a room.
• Rotate a room.
• Move a character.
• Initiate a Combat.
• Use a character’s Special Ability.
• Use an object.
Move a Character
During his movement, a character can:
• Move into any adjacent square (characters can move backwards)
• Move over objects or wounded characters (friendly or enemy) even stop
on objects and friendly wounded characters
• Move over characters of his own color, but not stop on them.
• Move over or stop on a Rotation Gear.
• Cross over an opened or broken Portcullis.
On the other hand, a character cannot:
• Move diagonally.
• Move over or stop on a Pit Trap.
• Move over or stop on an enemy character.
• Cross over a closed Portcullis.
• Pass through a wall.
At the end of a character’s movement, he cannot:
• Stand on the same square as an unwounded character (regardless of this 
character’s color).
• Stand on the same square as a wounded enemy character.
• Stand on a Pit Trap.
• Stand on the same square as two other tokens (regardless of their nature).
The author would like to thank the many players who set off on the Dungeon Twister adventure. This experience has created some great memories
and made a dream come true for some of us . Also a huge thanks to all the fans in France, the US and all around the world. I wish to have the crea-
tivity and be able to keep entertaining you through this game for as long as you will feel like playing it. Thank you, all of you and I hope we’ll keep “twis-
ting” rooms together for many years to come… Raphael “Shadow“ Puch, Olivier “Red Dragon“ Grassini, Yves “Mekanork“ Ley, Phillipe “élékinésiste“
Maurel, Guillaume “No timer“ Angousturès, Loic Maitrehut, Croc, Didier Guiserix, Charly Morelli, Stephane Martin, Jérome and Karine L'hurriec, Anita
Teixeira, Bernard Torrès, Benoit Mordelet, Dimitri Locatelli, Cyril Anaya, Monsieur Phal, Jason Guillamot, Illia Racunica, Matthieu Gitton, Laurent
Wozniak, Sylvie Damentko, Laurent Viallard, Daniel Sainz, Christophe Bolognino, Patrice “Uzul“ Giorgi, Michel Léger, François Joubaud, Olivier Lavaud,
Jérôme Gayol and L’entre Jeu, Christian Concas, Christian Schriek, Stephane Abello, Nicolas Anton, Lise Ley, Simba and Julie Valentin, Christophe Peres,
Christine Hernandez-Davo, Fabienne Roussel, Bruno Cathala, Eric and Catherine Esiwczak, Laveau Etienne, Fourage Jerôme, Feynas Paul, Lacurie
Geofrey, Simon Lefebvre, Jean Marc and Christine Guicheney, Marc Ladent and Sylvain Brel.
1st Golden Rule:
An Action must be fully completed
before starting another one.
2nd Golden Rule:
There can never be more than two
tokens in the same square at the end of
any Action.
• Object must be removed from the game after use.
• Lock-picking.
• Magic User.
• Flying.
• Breaks Portcullis.
• Regeneration.
• Craftsmanship.
• Deactivating Pit Traps.
Dungeon Twister was created by Christophe Boelinger, published by Asmodee Editions LLC and illustrated by Wayne Reynolds and
Thierry Masson. ©2005 Asmodee Editions. Dungeon Twister is a trademark of Asmodee Editions SARL. Patent pending.
Learn more at 
www.dungeontwister.com