Labyrinth: A structure containing an intricate
network of winding passages hard to follow
I without losing one's way; maze. (Webster's New
World Dictionary, Second College Edition)
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS'" Computer Labyrinth
Game is an electronic game of strategy, imagination
and adventure. It is inspired by the well-known
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS9 fantasy role
playing game published by TSR Hobbies, Inc. Within the
dungeon labyrinth lurks a deadly dragon, guarding a
fantastic treasure.Your object is to find and steal the
treasure, then get it back to your secret room before the
dragon gets you or your rival warrior robs you! You'll
never unravel the secret of this labyrinth, for the com-
puter generates a DIFFERENT labyrinth each time you
turn on the game.
YOU GET:
• a touch-sensitive, electronic playing board,
• an imaginary treasure to find and steal,
•a dragon guarding the treasure, to outwit and avoid,
•a labyrinth with invisible walls that shift each game
you play,
•doors that close in open corridors (advanced skill
level only),
• a secret room of your own where the dragon can't
find you,
•electronic sound clues that help you find doors and
walls, warn you when the dragon is awake and on
the move,
• continuous calculation of your and your opponent's
strength,
• playing pieces to help you keep track of walls, your
movements, your opponent, the dragon and the
treasure,
•markers for both secret rooms and the treasure room,
•two ways to play— alone against the computer, or
against a rival warrior and the computer,
• two skill levels— beginning and advanced.
BATTERY
TERMINALS
^V-^C
_ 
^^X
DOOR
FIRST, THE BATTERY
Your DUNGEONS & DRAGONS™ computer laby-
rinth game uses ONE 9-volt alkaline battery (not included).
The battery compart-
ment is located on the
underside of the game.
To reach it, turn the
game over.
Press down on the
ARROW on the battery
compartment door. Slide
the door out, toward the center of the game board.
Attach the battery to connector as shown. Insert in com-
partment and replace door.
To replace battery, fit one edge of the compartment
door between battery posts. Pry up gently. Important:
Do not pull the plastic wire connector to detach it.
IMPORTANT INFORMATION:
If your DUNGEONS & DRAGONS M game ap
pears to be malfunctioning, this is the first sign of battery
wear. A fresh battery should solve the problem. Use
alkaline batteries for longer life.
This game has been designed to meet all applicable FCC
rules. Because of this, there is very little chance that this game
will cause interference to television or radio reception. How-
ever, the FCC has asked all electronic game manufacturers to
give you the following information:
If you notice interference with radio or television reception
while this game is on, move the game away from the television
or radio. If the game is the cause of the interference, then
moving the game away from the radio or television should
eliminate the problem. If you are having problems with your
radio or television reception you may find the following booklet
(Stock 004-000-00345-4) helpful: "How To Identify and
Resolve Radio and TV Interference Problems" This booklet is
available from the US Government Printing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402.

THEN, THE DUNGEON!
HI Before you play, get familiar with the game
board and controls.
ELECTRONIC PLAYING BOARD WITH 64 TOUCH-SENSITIVE
PLAYING SQUARES. (1 square = Imove)
NEXT TURN
LEVEL 1/2
SOUND
PREVEW
KEYS
"SWITCH" 
AC JACK
KEY
RAISED TABS FOR
WALL PIECES
OFF/ON
SWITCH
MARKERS FOR
SECRET ROOMS AND
TREASURE ROOM
DRAGON
FIGURE (1)
STORAGE "DUNGEON"
FOR GAME PIECES
AND INSTRUCTIONS
PLASTIC WALL PIECES (50)
TREASURE
PIECE (1)
WARRIOR FIGURES (2)
"SWITCH" KEY is used with the Next Turn/Level 1/2
key to select beginning or advanced game level.
It is used with the Sound Preview keys to hear the sec-
ond six game sound effects.
NEXT TURN/LEVEL 1/2 KEY is used alone to indi-
cate the end of a player's turn. It is used with the Switch
key to select game level.
SOUND PREVIEW KEYS are used alone to preview the
first six game sound effects. They are used with the
Switch key to hear the second six game sound effects.
KNOW THE SOUNDS-
THEY ARE YOUR ONLY CLUES!
I The SOUND PREVIEW keys allow you to get
familiar with the game sound effects before and during
game play. Press them any time to identify the sound
clues you will need to know in order to play
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS™ game well
When you press a SOUND PREVIEW key with the
SWITCH key, press SWITCH first and hold it down
while you press the SOUND PREVIEW key.
These are the sound clues you will hear when you press
these keys ALONE:
Series of siren-
like, rising and
falling notes.
Series of very
fast notes at
high pitch.
Two rising
notes.
Flying
Wall
Warrior 1
Attacks
Illegal
Move
Warrior 2
Six notes in re-
peating high-
low pattern.
One buzz.
Three notes in
high-low-high
pattern.
These are the sound clues you will hear when you press
SOUND PREVIEW AND SWITCH keys:
Slow, falling
tune— means
player out of
game.
Series of very
fast notes at
low pitch.
A short, up-
beat tune.
Defeat
Tune
Door
Winner
Dratjoss
Attacks
Wakes
Warrior
Moves
Treasure
Low buzzing.
One high beep
for each square
pressed
A shorter ver-
sion of the
Winner's Tune.

GAME LEVELS—
BEGINNING OR ADVANCED
I You can play DUNGEONS & DRAGONS "
game at a simpler, beginning level or at a more difficult,
advanced level.
The advanced game differs from the beginning game in
overall difficulty and in the addition of DOORS. (See
description on page 16.)
If you do not select a game level, the game will automati-
cally be played at beginning level.
To select a game level, press the SWITCH and the
LEVEL 1/2 keys TOGETHER You will hear a HIGH
PITCHED NOTE. The game is now set for advanced
level. Press the two keys again and you will hear a LOW
PITCHED NOTE, for beginning level. You can cycle
through levels as often as you like.
You can even SWITCH LEVELS DURING THE
GAME... whenever you like, as often as you like. If one
player wants to play with a handicap, he can play at
beginning level while the other player plays at advanced
level. This means you must switch levels at the beginning
of each player's turn.
HOW TO BEGIN THE GAME
1 TURN THE OFF/ON SWITCH (rear of the
game) to ON. You will hear the WARRIOR 1 TUNE.
2. SELECT A GAME LEVEL If you want to play at
beginning level, skip this step.
3. SELECT YOUR SECRET ROOM. When two are
playing, flip a coin to see who goes first. Person going
first is Warrior 1.
Press any square on the board that you want as your
Secret Room. Mark it with one of the Secret Room
markers. Then press the NEXT TURN key. You will
hear the WARRIOR 2 TUNE. Player 2 should then
select a Secret Room and mark it with the other Secret
Room marker. (If only one person is playing, press the
square for your Secret Room, then press NEXT TURN
key TWICE.)
You can change your Secret Room any time BEFORE
you press the NEXT TURN key. Just press the new
square you want. Once you press the NEXT TURN key,
your Secret Room is locked in for the game.
Each player should place his warrior figure and marker
on his Secret Room square. After each player has
chosen a Secret Room, the computer will select a
hidden Treasure Room. This room will be at least 3
squares away from any Secret Room. The computer will
then generate a random labyrinth. This labyrinth will be
different every time you play the game.

NOW BEGIN YOUR QUEST!
At the beginning of the game, each player can
move his warrior a maximum of 8 SQUARES PER
TURN. Warrior 1 goes first, starting to move from his or
her Secret Room.
When you move your warrior over a square, you must
press down on that square, either with your warrior fig-
ure or your finger— until you hear a BEEP. You cannot
skip over squares or press only the final square of your
move or you will hear an ILLEGAL MOVE buzz.
You can move your warrior UP, DOWN, LEFT or
RIGHT, but you cannot move diagonally. You can turn
corners as often as you like, but you cannot move
through walls.
When you hit a wall, you will hear the WALL SOUND.
You must then back up one square and stop. Your turn
is over. You will hear the other WARRIOR'S TUNE.
When you hit a wall, mark it with a plastic wall piece,
so you will know where it is if you come that way again.
(For an even more difficult game, play on advanced level
and DO NOT MARK THE WALLS. This is a real
memory test.)
You do not have to take all 8 possible moves in one turn.
You can stop at any time by pressing the NEXT TURN
key. Mark your final position with your warrior figure.
After you press the NEXT TURN key, use your maxi-
mum number of moves, or hit a wall, you will hear the
other WARRIOR TUNE or the DRAGON FLYING
SOUND if the dragon is awake. (If you are playing alone,
you will hear the WARRIOR 1 TUNE again. If the dragon
isn't awake yet, just keep moving.)
Continue moving, taking turns and marking walls where-
ever you find them. Try to find and mark as many walls
as possible before the dragon wakes up. Both warriors
can safely occupy the same square, as long as neither of
them has the treasure. When two warriors temporarily
land on the same square, second warrior on the square
should wait until the first warrior moves again. Second
warrior piece can then be placed on the square.
i THE DRAGON WAKES!
I At the beginning of the game, the dragon is
asleep in the Treasure Room. But the dragon sleeps with
one eye open. After each player has taken one turn, the
dragon checks to see if anyone is approaching too close
to the treasure.

If either player is 3 squares away or closer, in any direc-
tion, the dragon wakes completely. You hear the DRAG-
ON WAKES sound (a low buzzing). As soon as the
second player's turn is over, the dragon moves one
square. You hear the DRAGON FLYING sound
When the dragon is awake, it starts to chase the NEAR-
EST warrior. It always moves 1 square at a time, after
Player 2 takes his or her turn. (If only one person is play-
ing, the dragon and player take turns moving, after the
dragon wakes.)
THE DRAGON CAN MOVE DIAGONALLY AND
"FLY" OVER WALLS.
If the dragon is chasing one warrior and the second war-
rior happens to move closer, the dragon will change
course, to go after the second, closer warrior.
If either warrior gets the treasure, the dragon will immed-
iately start after that warrior, even if the other warrior
is closer.
DRAGON ATTACK!
I The dragon is invisible. When you hear it wak-
ing, you know only that it is 3 squares away or closer in
SOME direction. You will not know the dragon's exact
location until it attacks a warrior. Use the dragon piece
to mark the general vicinity of the dragon, until you
locate its exact position. Then mark that position.
If you land on the dragon or it lands on your warrior, it
will attack and wound your warrior. You will hear your
WARRIOR TUNE, followed by the DRAGON
ATTACKS SOUND.
Either way, your warrior will be returned to your Secret
Room, where he can no longer be seen by the dragon.
After each dragon attack, your warrior's ability to move
will drop by 2 moves per turn.
FIRST DRAGON ATTACK— maximum moves per
turn drops from 8 to 6.

SECOND DRAGON ATTACK— maximum moves per
turn drops from 6 to 4.
THIRD DRAGON ATTACK— your warrior is wounded
too severely to continue. You're out of the game. You
hear your WARRIOR TUNE, then a mournful, DEFEAT
TUNE.
After the dragon attacks a warrior, it looks around to see
if there are any more warriors in the labyrinth. If the
second warrior is out of his Secret Room, the dragon
starts after him. If it cannot find a second warrior, it
starts back to the Treasure Room, moving one square at
a time, until it "sees" a warrior again.
ONCE THE DRAGON IS AWAKE, IT WILL ALWAYS
GO AFTER ANY WARRIOR OUTSDE HIS OR HER
SECRET ROOM!
TREASURE FOUND!
I If you succeed in avoiding the dragon long
enough to find the treasure (land on the Treasure Room
square), you will hear a short TREASURE TUNE. Your
warrior will then have to stop, even if you have not used
your maximum number of moves. You cannot move
again until the other warrior and the dragon (only the
dragon if you are playing alone) have both moved
The treasure is heavy and slows your warrior down to
4 moves per turn, as long as he is carrying it. If your
warrior is already at a 4 move maximum (has been at-
tacked by the dragon twice), his ability to move will not
be further reduced.
Once you locate the Treasure Room, mark it with the
Treasure Room marker. As long as you have the treas-
ure, you keep possesion of the treasure piece.
GET THE TREASURE HOME!
Now that you have found the treasure, you
must get it back to your Secret Room in order to win
the game.
If you are playing alone, you must avoid the dragon. If
you are playing with another person, you must avoid the
dragon and keep the other warrior from stealing the
treasure.
When you have the treasure, you are particularly vul-
nerable. If the dragon attacks you now, you are immed-
iately out of the game. You hear your WARRIOR'S
TUNE and the DEFEAT TUNE. The treasure goes back
to the Treasure Room (where you have placed the treas-
ure marker).

EXCEPTION: If you land on the Treasure Room square
while the dragon is still there, you are not immediately
out of the game. You will, however, be attacked and
wounded If this is your first or second attack, your
warrior will be sent back to your Secret Room and his
ability to move will be decreased in the usual manner.
If this is your third attack, your warrior will be out of the
game. The treasure will remain in the Treasure Room.
The dragon will stay in the Treasure Room unless a
warrior is in the labyrinth, outside his Secret Room.
When two people are playing and one is knocked out of
the game by the dragon, the other does NOT auto-
matically win. The second player must still find the
treasure and get it back to his or her Secret Room with-
out encountering the dragon.
SURVIVAL OF THE
STRONGEST!
(Warrior strength factors in a 2-player game)
This section applies ONLY in a 2-player game. If you
are playing alone, you will not need this information.
Both warriors in a 2-player game start out equally strong.
Each time a warrior moves, he loses a little strength.
Periodically during the game, the computer will RENEW
your warrior's strength, back to what it was at the start
of the game. You can never be sure when this will hap-
pen, just as you can never be really sure what your
warrior's strength is.
A WARRIOR'S STRENGTH HAS NOTHING TO
DO WITH HIS ABILITY TO MOVE HIS MAXIMUM
NUMBER OF MOVES PER TURN.
A warrior's strength factor determines two things:
1) The winner in a warrior vs. warrior combat over the
treasure (see below).
2) The loser if the dragon lands on a square occupied
by BOTH warriors. The dragon attacks and wounds the
WEAKER warrior, as determined by the computer. The
wounded WARRIOR'S TUNE and the DRAGON
ATTACKS SOUND are heard, and the wounded war-
rior is returned to his Secret Room. The dragon and
second warrior continue to occupy the same square un-
til the second warrior moves away. If the second warrior
stays on that square after his next turn, he will also be
attacked and wounded.
WARRIOR VS WARRIOR
COMBAT
(Stealing The Treasure— 2-player game only)
Once a warrior finds and takes the treasure from the
Treasure Room, his opponent can try to steal the treas-
ure from him.
Anytime both warriors occupy the same square (even in
passing) and one of them has the treasure, they engage
in combat to determine who gets the treasure. The win-
ner is decided by the computer, based on each warrior's
strength factor at the time of combat.
The winner is announced by that WARRIOR'S TUNE,
followed by the TREASURE TUNE. The winner's ability
to move is immediately reduced to 4 moves per turn.

After NEXT TURN has been pressed following combat,
that combat is over, even if both warriors remain on the
same square. If the defeated warrior wants to start the
combat again, he or she must move OFF the square
shared with the victor, then move back on it again.
There are a number of ways in which warrior vs. warrior
combat can occur. Each has a different result.
WARRIOR WITH TREASURE LANDS ON SQUARE
OCCUPIED BY OTHER WARRIOR
1) Warrior with treasure has NOT used his maximum
of 4 moves.
Whether he wins or loses, the warrior with treasure
may continue moving, up to his maximum number of
moves. If he wins, that maximum stays at 4 moves.
If he loses, that maximum returns to whatever it was
before he took the treasure (6 or 8 moves).
2) Warrior with treasure HAS USED his maximum of 4
moves.
If he wins, he must stop. His turn is over. If he loses,
he may continue moving, since his maximum returns
to whatever it was before he took the treasure (6 or
8 moves).
OTHER WARRIOR LANDS ON SQUARE OCCU-
PIED BY WARRIOR WITH TREASURE.
1) Other warrior has moved LESS THAN 4 squares.
Whether he wins or loses, he may continue moving, up
to his maximum number of moves. If he wins, that
maximum drops to 4 moves. If he loses, that maxi-
mum remains whatever it was before combat (6 or 8).
2) Other warrior has moved AT LEAST 4 SQUARES
but LESS than his maximum.
If he wins, he must stop. The treasure reduces his
maximum to 4 moves. If he loses, he may continue
moving, up to his maximum (6 or 8 moves).
3) Other warrior HAS USED HIS MAXIMUM number
of moves.
Whether he wins or loses, he must stop. His turn
is over.

DOORS
(ADVANCED LEVEL ONLY)
I In the advanced level of the
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS'" game, there are mag-
ical secret doors, as well as walls. The computer decides
when and where to close a door, and for how long.
Doors are tricky because you never know when they
will close. You may go through an open corridor on your
way to the Treasure Room, grab the treasure, go back
through the same corridor on your way home and run
smack into a closed door. This can be serious if the
dragon is chasing you.
When you encounter a closed door, you will hear the
DOOR SOUND. You must then back up one square
and stop. Your turn is over. You will hear the other
WARRIOR TUNE or the dragon taking its turn
(DRAGON FLYING SOUND).
On your next turn, you can either turn back and go
another way (though you may run into a door in any
other corridor also) or you can try to go through the
door.
To attempt going through a door again, simply move
your warrior forward. If the door remains closed, you will
hear the DOOR SOUND again and not be able to pro-
ceed farther. You must again back up one square and
stop. If the door opens, you will NOT hear the DOOR
SOUND and your progress will be unimpeded.
If a door does not open the first time you try to go
through, try again. All doors will open eventually.
THE WINNER!
I When any player succeeds in getting the treas-
ure back to his or her Secret Room without being at-
tacked by the dragon or robbed by the other warrior, that
player wins. You will hear the WINNER TUNE.
To play again, turn the game switch OFF, then ON
again. You will get a new labyrinth, with a different num-
ber and position of walls. Given the number of possible
combinations of walls, it is unlikely that you will ever get
two labyrinths that are exactly alike.
GAME STRATEGIES
1. When two people are playing, it is a good idea
to cooperate at the beginning of the game, in finding and
marking as many walls as possible. It is in both players'
interests to quickly locate the labyrinth walls.
2. Find all the walls in the immediate vicinity of your
Secret Room before you wake the dragon.
3. Remember that if the dragon jumps you both together,
it will only attack the weaker warrior. But remember also
that the computer restores each warrior's strength at
certain intervals. You can never be sure how strong your
opponent is.
4. If the dragon is awake and chasing your warrior, divert
it to chase your opponent, by passing close to the other
warrior, leaving him nearer to the dragon.
5. If your rival has the treasure and you are not close
enough to intercept him, lay an ambush. Camp at the
entrance to his Secret Room. Choose the entrance for
which he appears to be heading.

A REMINDER ABOUT...
I THE LABYRINTH:
Computer sets random number of walls in random
positions, to create a different labyrinth each time the
game is turned on.
Labyrinth walls are invisible, but when you find a wall,
you can mark it with a plastic wall piece.
There are never more than 50 walls in any labyrinth.
DOORS:
In advanced level game only.
Computer places doors randomly, then closes them
randomly throughout game.
Doors can only be discovered when closed. When you
encounter a closed door, you must back up one
square and stop. All doors eventually open, but not
always on the first try.
SECRET ROOMS:
Each player selects one secret room anywhere in the
labyrinth, at the start of the game.
Each player begins game play from his or her secret
room.
There is always one entrance into a secret room—
often 2 or more.
The dragon cannot find you in YOUR secret room—
you are safe. You are NOT safe in your opponent's
secret room.
After a warrior is attacked by the dragon, he must
return to his or her secret room.
WARRIORS (YOU & OPPONENT):
Warriors cannot move diagonally or through walls
or closed doors.
Warriors start out equally strong, but lose and gain
strength at unknown rates as they move through the
labyrinth. Computer keeps track of each warrior's
strength.
Warriors start out able to move 8 squares per turn
maximum. This number drops by 2 squares each time
a warrior is attacked by the dragon.
A warrior is out of the game if attacked by the dragon
a third time or while carrying the treasure.
DRAGON:
Dragon starts game asleep in the Treasure Room,
wakes when a warrior gets too close— 3 squares
away or closer.
Dragon is invisible. Exact position can be located only
when dragon attacks a warrior. When known,
dragon's position can be marked with dragon figure.
(Before exact position is located, general vicinity of
dragon can be marked with dragon figure.)
Dragon always goes after closest warrior or the war-
rior with the treasure.
Dragon only moves one square per turn, but can fly
diagonally and over walls.
TREASURE:
Stays in Treasure Room until a warrior finds and
takes it. Treasure Room is always at least 3 squares
away from any Secret Room and always has at least
2 open paths leading to it.
Treasure is heavy. First it stops, then slows down
warrior carrying it.
Treasure Room, when found, can be marked with the
Treasure Room marker.
•BBf

HOW TO TAKE CARE OF YOUR
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS™ GAME
• Do not subject any electronic game to extremes in
heat, cold or humidity. (Over 104°F is too hot. Under
35°F is too cold) Rapid changes in temperature or hu-
midity are particularly harmful.
• Keep your game away from direct sunlight and protect
it from dust as much as possible.
•To clean your game, wipe it with a damp, not wet,
cloth.
• Do not drop electronic games. The electronic com-
ponents are fragile.
• If you will not be using your game for an extended
period of time (while on vacation, for example), remove
the battery.
90 DAY LIMITED WARRANTY
Mattel Electronics warrants to the original consumer pur-
chaser of any of its electronic games (including hand-held
electronic games) that the product will be free of defects
in material or workmanship for 90 days from the date of
purchase
During this 90-Day Warranty Period, the game will either
be repaired or it will be replaced with a reconditioned
game of equivalent quality (at our option) without charge
to the purchaser, when returned either to the dealer with
proof of the date-of-purchase, or when returned prepaid
and insured, with proof of the date-of-purchase, to:
Mattel Electronics Repair Center
5000 West 147th Street
Hawthorne, California 90250
Units returned without proof of date-of-purchase, or units
returned after the 90-Day Warranty Period has expired,
will be repaired or replaced (at our option) for a service
charge of $10.00. Payment must be made by check or
money order. This non-warranty service will only be
available for one year from the date of purchase. All non-
warranty units must be returned postage prepaid and in-
sured to MATTEL ELECTRONICS REPAIR CENTER
This warranty gives you specific legal rights and you may
also have other rights which vary from state to state
This warranty does not cover damage resulting from ac-
cident, unreasonable use, neglect, unauthorized service
or other causes not arising out of defects in material or
workmanship.
IF YOU NEED SERVICE FROM MATTEL
ELECTRONICS REPAIR CENTER
It's available during and after the 90-Day Warranty
Period
1. Pack the product carefully in its original box. If the box
is not available, use a strong carton with plenty of news-
paper or other padding. Enclose a brief note telling us the
specific problem you are having with the unit and your
name and home address. Remove the battery.
2. Print this address on the box:
MATTEL ELECTRONICS REPAIR CENTER
5000 WEST 147TH STREET
HAWTHORNE, CA 90250..and your return address.
3. Send the package by insured parcel post.
During the warranty period enclose proof of purchase
date. After warranty period has expired enclose a check
or money order for $10.00.