Rulebook
There came a time when there were no genuine heroes anymore. Only toothless charlatans and wheezing, 
uneducated ruffians roamed the desolate lands and, with their bogus stories of supposed heroic deeds, 
relieved the people of their hard-earned gold. When the king heard of this, a wroth overcame him that 
almost shook the jewels from his best Sunday crown. This embarrassing deheroization of the land was 
intolerable. And so he decided to send out his trusty scouts to seek and find the most dangerous dun-
geons of the realm. He then proceeded to let every self-professed hero be seized and brought before him. 
And he threw these lowlifes into the dungeons in small groups. There, they should either prove their 
hero mettle or else fertilize the slimy fungi with their rotting corpses. You might be surprised to hear that 
you are none other than these heroes. Whoop-dee-doo! So, for you this means fight or ... fertilize.
Dungeon Fighter is a game combining dexterity, adventure and a good dose of humor, in which each 
player plays the role of a hero (or something close to the general idea anyway) who will venture forth 
with his party to explore the dungeon and face the hordes of grotesque (and in most cases slightly in-
sane) monsters infesting its rooms. Forged in the fires of desperation, the hero party will need to bring 
the right mix of skill and courage to bear in order to fight their way through the dungeon and ultimately 
face the Final Boss.

Contents
1 four-part target board
3 colored hero dice
9 white bonus dice
30 gold coins
6 black health tokens (figures) 
for the heroes
1 red health token (for the monsters)
9 hero sheets
1 monster hitpoint board
2 double-sided dungeon map boards
4 Bosses (with Adventure Maps 
on the back)
1 hero party marker
1 party leader token 
(with defeated/undefeated side)
1 chest token
5 Tokens for Special powers
14 scar tokens tower with 5 levels
Pieces for the tower with 6 levels
4 final boss cards
53 item cards
53 monster cards
Object of the game
In Dungeon Fighter a party of dimwitted heroes rushes 
into the next best dungeon to pilfer great riches and fabled 
artifacts. With their innate grace, they throw themselves 
at the horrid creatures inhabiting these places, hoping to 
overcome them and face down the final boss in the end. If 
they manage to defeat this monstrosity, they have won the 
game. So enter, you fools ... and abandon all hope.
Before the first game
When playing Dungeon Fighter for the very first time, you 
need to make the following preparations.
First, punch out the tower pieces, tokens and markers, 
taking care not to damage the pieces or yourselves. Now 
you build the TOWER. Follow the illustration below 
to build the tower from its components from the punch 
board. Make sure you don‘t accidentally build one of your 
fellows into the tower. The levels have different designs 
and you are free to include them as you wish. The shorter 
layer should be on top. Unless you suffer from obsessive-
compulsive tower-building disorder, you never need to 
disassemble the tower again.
TOWER CONSTRUCTION 

3. Summoning the final boss
The heroes would be disappointed to no end if they did 
not have to face a final boss and simply found an un-
guarded treasure chamber. So now you randomly draw 
one of the 4 facedown final boss cards. Place the drawn 
card facedown at the exit of the final boss board without 
looking at it. There, the final boss can patiently wait for 
the party to arrive. Being a final boss does indeed take 
some patience, as many hero parties will never reach 
him, having been thwarted by his overzealous minions.
4. Choosing the heroes
Each player chooses one of the heroes (indecisive or 
quarrelsome players can draw the heroes randomly) and 
places the corresponding hero sheet in front in himself, 
with the side showing a healthy hero facing up. Each 
hero also gets one health tracker and places it on the 
highest space of his hero sheet, the IX.
5. Choosing a difficulty level
Depending on how daring or timid you are, you can 
choose a higher or lower difficulty level for your game 
of Dungeon Fighter. To do this, sort the monster cards 
into separate piles. Different combinations of monsters 
are drawn to represent a higher or lower difficulty level. 
For the number of monster cards drawn from each of 
the piles, refer to the table below. The points in the last 
column are used for the endgame scoring. 
I
II
III
IV
Punkte
Easy
Normal
Hellish
New and/or inexperienced heroes should start with the 
easy difficulty level. After all, dungeons are dangerous 
Game setup
To set up a game of Dungeon Fighter execute the follow-
ing steps in order. There is a setup example on page 4:
1. Put together the target board
Put the four pieces of the board together to form one big 
target board. The letters at the edges help you line up the 
correct pieces with each other. Of course, it would be 
advisable to place the board with the target illustration 
facing up onto the table. It will dramatically increase your 
heroes‘ chances to hit. The board should be placed at an 
equal distance to each of the players.
2. Creating the dungeon
As everyone knows, dungeons consist of three levels. So 
players will draw three dungeon boards, which they need 
to traverse. First, one final boss board and then 2 dun-
geon map boards.
From the 4 final boss boards, one player draws one at ran-
dom without looking at them and places it on the table 
with the final boss side facing up.
Now, the dungeon map boards and the remaining 3 final 
boss boards (each with a dungeon map on the other side) 
are shuffled. The same player as before now draws two of 
these boards without looking at them and places them on 
the table with no final boss side facing up. If a dungeon 
map board is placed with the final boss side up, simply 
flip it over to its dungeon map side.
Now place the boards next to each other, lining up the 
arrows from the exit of the first board to the entry of the 
second board and from the exit of the second board to 
the entry of the final boss board. If you read this sentence 
three times in a row, make sure there is a bucket close at 
hand.
Now you have constructed your dungeon with 3 levels. 
Place the hero party marker in front of the entry space of 
the first dungeon map board.
1. Ebene
2. Ebene
3. Ebene
Gezogener 
Endgegnerplan
1. gezogener 
Abenteuerplan
2. gezogener 
Abenteuerplan
First the palyers drew the the boss board ad then 2 adventure 
boards.
The first drawn adventure board is the 1st level of the dungeon. The 
second drawn is the 2nd level. The boss board is the 3rd level. This 
may be confusing, but just remind yourself how a hero would feel in 
a dungeon.
EXAMPLE: CREATING THE DUNGEON

places, and not everyone has what it takes to roam around 
the five-star dungeons of world. Place the pile of level-I 
monsters on the upmost tier of the tower, the pile of level-
II monsters on the tier below it, etc.
6. Preparing the other components
All the other components, like gold coins, scar tokens, the 
chest token, item cards, the monster hitpoint board and 
special ability markers are set up as shown in the illustra-
tion below.
Finally, the heroes receive get their gear ... the dice. The 3 
colored dice represent the basic equipment of every hero 
party and are called hero dice. The party also receives 2 
gold coins and 1 white die. These are placed in the trea-
sury, i.e. onto the chest token. This is where the collective 
possessions of the hero party are stored.
7. Appointing a leader
A hero party without a leader will just aimlessly amble 
about. There are several different rituals to determine the 
leader of a Dungeon Fighter hero party. You can elect the 
player with the best likeness to his hero, or you can resort 
to the time-honored tradition of wrestling, kicking and 
fighting for it, but if you do so, you might want to consider 
doing it away from the table. If all else fails, let the fates 
decide. From time to time the leader needs to make criti-
cal decisions about the game, but otherwise he is a hero no 
better and no worse than the rest. The leader will also be 
the first player during the first round and, as such, takes all 
3 hero dice. He also gets the leader token, which he places 
in front of himself with the undefeated side facing up.
Hint: Leader is not the same as the starting player! 
Starting Player
Leader
Heroe 
Treasure
The Dungeon
final boss 
scar tokens
tower
monster hitpoint 
board
Another Heros 
with no 
special title
Leader Token
Hero dice
bonus dice
Tokens for 
Special powers
Gold
Equipment 
Stacks
Monster-
Stacks

Flow of the game
A game of Dungeon Fighter is played over several rounds, 
each consisting of 3 phases:
A) movement
B) encounter and fighting
C) clean-up
A) Movement
The dungeon consists of rooms connected by corridors. 
In this phase, the heroes decide which corridor to take 
and which room to enter next. The following rules apply 
to the hero party movement:
To indicate the party‘s movement to a particular 
room, simply move the party marker to that room on 
the dungeon map board.
The party can only move to a room directly connect-
ed to the current room by a corridor, following the 
direction of the arrow.
The party can NEVER move against the direction of 
the arrows.
The party always moves from one room to the next, 
never to a corridor.
In the first round, the party moves to the entry space 
of the first dungeon map board.
If the players cannot agree on where to go next, the 
leader has the final word.
If the party leaves the last room of a dungeon map 
board, it moves to the first room of the next board, 
until reaching the exit of the final boss board.
After completing the move, the movement phase is 
over, and the second phase (encounter) follows.
EXAMPLE FOR MOVEMENT
B) encounter and fighting
After entering a new room, the party ALWAYS faces an 
encounter. Any well-organized dungeon has a monster in 
each room, so that, naturally, each new room means a new 
fight to the death.
The start player draws one monster card from the topmost 
tier of the tower still containing at least one card. At the 
start of the game this should be a level-I monster. After all 
level-I monsters have been defeated, the next room will 
contain a level-II monster, and so on.
Reveal the monster card and place it next to the monster 
hitpoint board. The monster card specifies how many 
hitpoints the monster has. The health tracker is placed on 
the appropriate space on the monster hitpoint board. If the 
monster card shows gold coins (gold which the monster 
got for finishing off earlier hero parties), place that many 
gold coins on the monster card.
Now, you are ready to fight the monster.
Special rooms and their effects:
Shops
In a shop you shop, of course. These rooms allow the 
heroes to buy equipment during the clean-up phase, 
i.e. after the encounter phase. To set up what‘s available in 
any given shop, draw 3 cards plus 1 for each hero from the 
equipment deck in the tower and lay them out face up. The 
party can now purchase as many of these equipment cards 
as they wish, by paying the printed amount of gold coins 
from their treasury. The cards are purchased by the party as 
a whole, even though only one hero at a time can use any 
particular card (see page 8-9). In addition to these cards, the 
party can purchase bonus dice. 1 white bonus die costs 2 gold 
coins. The heroes can also purchase healing. Per gold coin 
spent, all heroes heal 1 damage. If the party cannot agree on 
what to buy, the party leader decides.
Healing fountain
After the encounter phase, all heroes are fully healed 
during the clean-up phase.
Treasure chambers
After the Encounter of this room, the Party receives 
the reward indicated on the room. If the reward 
is an Equipment, draw a random Equipment card from the 
deck. The Leader will decide who receives it.
Dangerous rooms
In these rooms, the heroes have to fight the monster 
under adverse conditions indicated by the room‘s 
icon. For details on these icons, see page 11.

Fighting a monster
To fight the players try to deal damage to the monster 
clockwise starting with the starting player (who has the 3 
heroe dice in front of him).
The start player takes the first swing at the monster. And he 
will swing ... with a die, what else?!
There are three colored hero dice, which are always avail-
able to the hero party at the start of the fight. The colors 
correspond to the special abilities depicted on the hero 
sheets.
The start player chooses one of these three dice, thus 
also choosing the special ability he might get to activate. 
Choosing the best color for your shot is crucial and should 
be discussed with the other heroes. Now, he only needs to 
hit the monster. He takes the chosen die and tries to throw 
it onto the target board (following the rules for throwing 
dice). After the die comes to rest (whether on the target 
board or anywhere else), this die cannot be used again this 
round. The hero does damage to the monster equal to the 
number of the section of the target board his die landed 
on (plus bonuses from weapons etc., if any). Subtract that 
many hitpoints on the monster hitpoint board.
Hint: The bulls eye of the target board has a damage value 
of 10. If you hit the bulls eye and the hero icon is upside, 
the monster is killed immediately. This does also apply for 
the final boss!
Every time a hero misses the target board, he takes dam-
age equal to the damage value printed on the monster 
card. He moves his health tracker down that many spaces. 
If the player then has fewer than 1 hitpoint, he decides to 
faint and feign death. He cannot act again in this fight.
Then the next player in clockwise order takes his turn, 
choosing a die and throwing it. After him, the next player 
in clockwise order throws the remaining hero die.
If the heroes have done enough damage to reduce the 
monster‘s hitpoints to 0, the monster is down in the dust. 
Which means that the heroes do not need to throw more 
dice at the poor creature.
Rules for throwing dice::
The die has to bounce at least once on the tabletop before 
hitting the target board!
If the die does not bounce at least once before hitting the 
target board, the throw counts as a miss.
If the die falls into one of the holes in the target board, the 
throw counts as a miss. If the die touches the table top, 
however slightly, it counts as having fallen into the hole.
If the die comes to rest on one of the bones on the target 
board, the throw counts as a miss.
If the die comes to rest outside the target board, the throw 
is considered a MISS. After a miss, the monster attacks the 
hero. The hero who missed is dealt damage according to 
the damage value printed on the monster card.
The die is allowed to bounce more than once before hit-
ting the target board.
The throwing player can stand or sit, other players may 
move out of his way, and the player can throw from any-
where around the table, except when some ability (that 
of a room or a card) explicitly forbids this. The players are 
free to cheer on the throwing player, but they should take 
a second to remember where they are before attracting 
unwanted attention to themselves.
If the die comes to rest on the target board (and has 
bounced legally before doing so), it does damage equal 
to the number printed on the section where it landed. If 
the die came to rest across the dividing line between two 
sections, the die is considered to be in the section contain-
ing more of the die than the other. If in doubt, the die is 
considered to be in the lower-value section.
If the die comes to rest showing the hero icon, the hero‘s 
special ability of the die‘s color is triggered.
Other players are allowed to stand up to make room for the 
throwing player. Other obstacles, like beer mugs, may also 
be moved (i.e. drained down someones gullet)..
White bonus dice
A white bonus die can be used as a die of any color (players 
can decide after the throw which color it should represent). 
However, the white dice are one-time use only. But they are 
the heroes‘ only hope when they fail to kill the monster with 
the three hero dice.
Health
Breakdown of a Monster Card
Damage
Gold
Special Ability 
(Handicap while 
fighting)
Name
Type of Monster
Dice Color and hero sheets

If all three hero dice have been used but the monster is 
still alive, the next hero in clockwise order takes his turn 
choosing one of the following options:
A) He takes a white die from the chest token and uses it 
to attack.
or
B) ALL heroes take damage according to the monster‘s 
damage value to free up the three hero dice again. The 
active player chooses a die and starts his attack. The 
leader token is then flipped over to its defeated side.
Regardless of his choice (A or B), the next player in 
clockwise order takes his turn after him. If the hero dice 
are again used up, the next hero in clockwise order again 
has to choose option A or B and so on until the monster is 
defeated.
Example: Torm‘s, Randolph‘s and Goldfinga‘s fight against the 
Common Goblin continues. After Torm‘s and Randolph‘s two 
sucessful throws, dealing a total of 5 damage, Goldfinga bungles 
his throw and takes 1 damage from the Goblin. Now it‘s Torm‘s 
turn again. All hero dice are used up, so he has to choose whether 
to use a white die or have all heroes take damage. He decides to 
use a white die. With barbaric fury, he throws the die making it 
land on the 4 ring. The Goblin‘s hipoints are reduced below 1, 
and he is defeated. The heroes are once again victorious.
Hint: The damage dealt while becoming defeated by a 
monster is not avoidable. No special powers can prevent that 
damage. 
End of the fight
A fight can end in one of two ways:
- The heroes defeat the monster
- The monster knocks all heroes unconscious
The monster is defeated
If the heroes have collectively done enough damage to 
reduce the monster‘s hitpoints to 0, the monster is deaf-
eated, and the party has conquered the room. Proceed 
with the clean-up phase!
All heroes are unconscious
If the over-zealous monster has made all heroes faint, the 
party has lost the game. Their remains will be devoured 
or – if found unpalatable by the dungeon‘s denizens – 
used to fertilize the local flora. While lamentable, these 
things happen. Next time, the party can play at a lower 
difficulty level if they want to improve their chances of 
survival.
Heroes‘ special abilities
A hero‘s special ability is triggered when the thrown 
die comes to rest showing the hero icon face up. Some 
abilities require that the die actually come to rest on the 
target board to be triggered. The ability triggered, if any, 
depends on the color of the die thrown. The general rule 
is that special ability icons containing a target require the 
die to land on the target board to trigger. All the heroes‘s 
special abilities are explained fully on page 10.
Note: The heroes‘ special abilities also work when fight-
ing the final boss.
Special abilities (weapons, monsters 
and rooms) during a fight
Weapons give the heroes the chance to deal more dam-
age by performing a special kind of throw. Heroes can 
choose which weapon(s) to use each time they throw a 
die. Weapons are not discarded after use, so they can be 
used multiple times. When using a weapon, the general 
rule requiring the die to bounce at least once outside the 
target board still applies.
A player can use any number of weapons in front of 
him to combine their bonuses. However, using multiple 
weapons at once also requires the hero to combine all the 
special throws.
Example: Torm has the Helm of Bravery (blind shot) and the 
Dragon‘s Vent (spin shot) and decides to use both. He closes his 
1.
2.
3.
Example: Torm, Randolph and Goldfinga are fighting their way 
through the labyrinth. They have just encountered a Common 
Goblin. He has 7 hitpoints and does 1 damage. He also carries 1 
gold coin.
Torm goes first and, being the fierce barbarian that he his, chooses 
the red die. He throws the die making it bounce once on the table. 
The die comes to rest on the 2 ring, but not with the hero icon show-
ing. So Torm does 2 damage. Nothing spectacular, bu at least he 
hit the goblin at all. Randolph is next. He throws the blue die and 
gets it inside die 3 ring, but also did not get a hero icon. He does 3 
damage. Now Goldfinga needs to finish the Goblin ... he takes the 
green die and throws.
.
Example of a fight

eyes and spins the die towards the target board, hoping to land 
a hit. If he lands a hit, he will do +5 damage in addition to the 
normal damage from the die‘s position on the target board.
Icons for these special shots can also be found on certain 
types of monsters or rooms. Whenever a room or monster 
card shows a special shot icon, the heroes will have to 
fulfill this special shot requirement during that fight (this 
does has no benefit for the heroes except that they can 
prove their dice-throwing prowess under more challeng-
ing conditions). Special shots required by monsters and 
rooms are combined when they are present during the 
same fight. 
Example: The heroes are fighting a A) Sweet Bear (crossbow 
shot) in a B) Dangerous Room requiring a two-bounce shot, 
and the hero wants to use his Helm of Bravery (blind shot). All 
3 requirements are combined. So the player needs to perform a 
crossbow shot with his eyes closed making the die bounce at least 
twice before hitting the target board. Difficult, but not impossible.
If two requirements are the same, e.g. a weapon and a room 
having the same icon, the requirement is not doubled or 
combined. The hero just needs to perform the special shot 
as normal.
Important: When combining damage bonuses (from 
several weapons and/or other effects), the normal order of 
operations applies.
For those of you who didn‘t pay attention in fifth grad 
maths, this means: multiply before you add or subtract.
Example: Torm the Barbarian uses the red die (*2 when acti-
vated) and the Helm of Bravery (+3 with a blind shot) to fight a 
worthless Common Goblin. He manages to make the die come 
to rest on the 3 on the target board with the hero icon showing, 
even with his eyes closed. So he does 3 * 2 +3 damage. That‘s a 
total of 9 damage! This magnificent shot floors the poor Goblin 
in one go.
C) Clean-up
When the party has conquered the room, they can bask 
in their glory for a bit, but then they will have to clean 
up the mess of all that hacking and slashing. Execute the 
following steps in any order you choose.
The 3 hero dice are given to the player who is next in 
order, he is the new starting player.
The heroes take the gold sitting on the slain mon-
ster‘s card and put it into their treasury, i.e. on the 
chest token.
Heroes who fainted are revived and ready to fight 
again in the next room. Owing to the trauma of being 
defeated by a monster, each revived hero receives a 
scar token, which he places on his hero sheet cover-
ing up one of his special abilities. This means that 
he can no longer use this special ability AND has 3 
fewer hitpoints than before. If a hero would receive 
his third scar token, he cannot be revived, and his 
hero sheet is flipped over. He has now „leveled up“ 
to the „angelic hero“ level and is eliminated from the 
game.
Any special abilities triggered during the fight which 
take effect during the clean-up phase, such as Seduc-
tion, are now resolved.
The leader token is turned back, so its undefeated 
side is upside.
The 3 hero dice are passed to the next player in 
clockwise order.
The white dice used during the last fight are placed 
back into the general supply (not to the heroes‘ trea-
sury!). 
If the heroes managed to kill the monster without us-
ing all three hero dice, they receive one white bonus 
die from the general supply for every hero die not 
used. However, they get no bonus dice if the leader 
token is showing the defeated side. This does not ap-
ply if the Leader Token has the Defeated side upside.
Is the Leader Token with its Defeated side upside, 
the Leader Token is turned around so he shows the 
Undefeated side again.
The defeated monster is placed onto the discard pile, 
except when a special ability says otherwise.
The heroes can now swap any equipment they are 
carrying.
If the heroes are now in a special room (like a shop) 
they can now take advantage of the room’s benefits.
This concludes a turn, and the next turn starts with 
the movement phase.
Items, armor and, most importantly, 
weapons
As described on page 6, you can buy all sorts of shiny 
things in shops (there are other ways to get equipment, as 
Goldfinga will know). There are 3 types of equipment:
	
	
	
weapons
	
	
armor
	
	
items
A
B
C
Example of a 
placed scar token

Each hero sheet lists how many of each type of equip-
ment that hero can carry.
No hero can ever carry more pieces of equipment than 
his hero sheet allows him (this might be 0 in some cases). 
If a hero ever has too many pieces of equipment, he has 
to discard the excess equipment or (if this is the clean-up 
phase) pass it to another hero.
Example: Goldfinga can 
carry, and use at the same 
time, 2 weapons and 1 
item.
Some equipment cards 
have a „1x“ printed in the 
lower left corner. This 
means that this particular 
piece of equipment is one-
time use only. To make up 
for this, they can be used at 
any time.
Fighting the final boss and 
winning the game - or not
If the heroes have successfully fought their way through 
the dungeon and defeated the monster in the last room of 
the final boss board, their next encounter will be the final 
boss. 
Flip over the final boss card drawn during game setup to 
reveal the horrid creature guarding the final treasure cham-
ber. Place the card next to the monster hitpoint board and 
place the red health tracker on the appropriate number as 
indicated on the final boss card. Now the heroes will fight 
for their lives. If they manage to defeat the final boss, they 
have won the game.
Fighting the final boss follows all the rules for fighting other 
monsters. With the following exceptions:
When all hero dice have been used, the next player cannot 
choose to have all heroes take the final boss‘s damage to get 
the hero dice back. He has to use a bonus die. If the heroes 
run out of bonus dice before the final boss is defeated, they 
have lost the game.
If the heroes manage to redude the final boss‘s hitpoints to 
0, they have won the game and go off to celebrate their vic-
tory. Dramatic and ridiculous victory poses at the table are 
not only tolerated, but called for in our opinion.
Should the heroes wish to express their joy in numbers, 
they can refer to the following scoring rules:
+ X based on the level of difficulty chosen at the start of the 
game
+ 1 per player
+ 2 per bonus die still in the party treasury
+ 1 per 2 gold coins still in the party treasury
+ 5 if no hero ever fainted during the game (i.e. no hero has 
scar tokens)
- 1 per scar token among the party
- 5 per „leveled up“ hero (flipped hero sheet).
After calculating your hero rating in this way, you can 
determine your party‘s status:
0 or less: Lame ducks
1 to 5: Inept optimists
6 to 10: Insubordinate rascals
11 to 15: Rookie adventurers
16 to 20: Wannabe heroes
21 to 25: Average heroes
26 to 30: Level-20 heroes
31 to 35: Epic source book readers
36 to 39: Epic source book writers
40 or more: Heroic awesomeness beyond human compre-
hension
Impossible situations
Should the heroes ever find themselves in a situation 
where they consider the shot required impossible, they 
can, as a group, decide to step down. So if, say, the heroes 
don‘t think they will ever be able to throw the die success-
fully under one leg while standing with their back to the 
table, all heroes lose 1 hitpoint out of shame, the monster 
is put back at the bottom of the stack it came from, and 
a new monster is drawn for the current room (if it was 
the last monster in its stack, simply draw from a different 
stack).
This is not part of the standard rules and 
should only be used in extreme cases, 
because after all Dungeon Fighter is 
all about overcoming ludicrous chal-
lenges.

Special abilities
Heroes
Burst of hits: if activated, it temporarily doubles the 
attacking speed of the hero. The players can immediately 
take back the die just thrown and throw them again 
(following the normal rules of combat). The results from 
both throws are added together. Is only activated if the player hits the 
target board and it cannot be activated twice.
+ x
Extra damage: If activated, add the printed bonus to the 
damage dealt with this throw. Is only activated if the player 
hits the target board.
= 5
Focused damage: If activated, deal 5 damage regardless of 
the „normal“ damage dealt by this throw. Other bonuses can 
be added, if applicable. Is only activated if the player hits the 
target board
Divine intervention: If activated, this ability makes the 
character an instrument of his God. For each point of 
damage dealt to the Monster, one chosen player heals one 
HP. The hero activating this ability is expected to praise his 
or her god(s) loudly and exuberantly. Is only activated if the player hits 
the target board.
Blind Fury: If activated, this ability transforms the character 
into a fighting machine, oblivious to the damage he takes 
from the attacks received. The player can choose to lose 1 
HP (cut to the earlobe) to double the damage dealt with his 
throw. Is only activated if the player hits the target board.
Heal all heroes: If activated, all heroes heal the printed 
amount of HP. Is also activated if the player misses the target 
board.
Tracking strike: If activated, makes the Monster a light in 
the dark for all the Heroes. Place the tracking token on the 
Monster. All players deal +1 damage to the glowing Monster 
until the end of the fight. Take the token back during the 
clean-up phase. Is also activated if the player misses the target board..
Theft: if activated, makes your character perform a 
spectacular stealing action against the Monster you‘re 
fighting. For each activation, the Party gains an Equipment 
card randomly drawn from the Equipment cards deck 
during the clean-up phase. Is also activated if the player misses the 
target board.
Metamorphosis: if activated, transforms the Monster you‘re 
fighting into a Toad. Place the Toad token on the Monster. 
The damage dealt from the Monster is reduced by 2 until 
the end of the fight. (Does not apply for damage dealt by the 
monster to all players when taking back the 3 hero dice).Remove the 
token during the clean-up phase. Is also activated if the player misses 
the target board.
Sworn enemy: if activated, this ability gives bonuses against 
certain types of Monsters (indicated by the monster icon on 
the hero sheet). Each time the hero activates this power 
while facing a Monster of the corresponding kind (with the 
same icon), he will deal more damage (usually +4). Is also activated if 
the player misses the target board.
Reroll: The player can immediately take back the die just 
thrown and throw it again. The first die result is disregarded. 
Is also (and will most probably be) activated if the player 
No damage: If activated, the hero takes no damage if he 
Pickpocket: The player steals 2 GC and adds them to the 
treasury. Is also activated if the player misses the target board.
Seduction: if activated, place the Charm token on the 
Monster. At the end of the fight, when the Monster is 
defeated, the Monster will fall madly in love with the 
Character who seduced it. If the monster is defeated, the 
seducing player takes the Monster card and adds it to his equipment 
(it doesn‘t count towards the number of Equipment cards the 
character can equip). At any moment after he throws a die, the player 
can discard a seduced Monster to add the monster‘s maximum 
damage value to the damage he deals this turn. During Clean-Up the 
Charm token is taken off the card. Is also activated if the player misses 
the target board. A player can charm more than one monster!
Beer: If activated, place the beer token on any hero sheet. 
The hero with the beer token does not take any damage for 
the rest of the fight. If activated again, the beer token can be 
moved to a different hero. Then that hero does not take any 
damage for the rest of the fight. (Does not apply for damage dealt by 
the monster to all players when taking back the 3 hero dice).Take the 
beer token back during the clean-up phase. Is also activated if the 
player misses the target board.
Lay of heroes: If activated, the monster loses its special 
abilities until the end of the fight, provided the party pays 1 
Gold (no bard sings for free, after all). Is also activated if the 
player misses the target board.
Armor and items
If a player uses an Item or an Armor, he gets the benefits right away. All 
items have to be discarded after use. This is shown with a symbol in the 
lower left corner. Armors somethimes have to be discarded, not always.
Healing one hero: The player can give any hero (including 
himself) the printed amount of HP.
Healing all heroes: The player gives all heroes the printed 
amount of HP.
Reroll: The player can immediately take back the die just 
thrown and throw it again. The first die result is disregarded. 
Is also (and will most probably be) activated if the player 
+ x
Additional damage: If the player hits the target board, the 
damage dealt is increased by the printed amount.
No damage: If the player misses the target board, he can 
discard this card. If he does, he takes no damage. Does not 
apply for damage dealt by the monster to all players when 
taking back the 3 hero dice (defeat).
Riposte damage: If the player takes damage, he can 
deal the same amount of damage to the monster. 
(Does not apply if the party is defeated.).
-x
Reduced damage: If the player misses the target board, he 
takes „X“ fewer points of damage (does not apply if the 
party is defeated). Does not apply for damage dealt by the 
monster to all players when taking back the 3 hero dice.

Weapons (and rooms and monsters)
Bank shot: The player places the game box or an upright 
hero sheet on the table in a position of his choice. He then 
throws the die. The die has to hit the placed object before 
landing on the target board. 
Note: The die still has to bounce at least once outside of the target 
board; it can do so before and/or after hitting the object. 
Crossbow shot: The player puts the die on the back of his 
hand, then flicks it towards the target board with a finger of 
his other hand.
Blow shot: The player places the die on his hand and blows 
it towards the target board.
Under the leg shot: the player throws the die with the 
shooting hand under one of his legs.
Blind shot: The player throws the die with his eyes closed.
Two-bounce shot: The die needs to bounce at least twice 
outside the target board before hitting it.
Elbow shot: The player places the die on his elbow and lets 
it roll towards the target board.
Pious shot: The player keeps the die between the two palms 
of his hands as if praying. He then opens his palms and 
flings the die towards the target board.. 
Weak hand shot: The player throws the die with his weak 
hand (the one he doesn‘t use to write).
Borrowed hand shot: The player places the die onto a palm 
of the player to his left. He throws the die by moving the 
other player‘s hand
Card jump shot: The player holds a card upright with the 
longer side touching the table. With his other hand, he 
throws the die making it bounce once between himself and 
the card. The die needs to jump over the card to hit the 
target board.
Catapult shot: The player places a card on the edge of the 
table, letting it protrude over the edge. He places the die onto 
the card, he then bends the card down and releases it to fling 
the die towards the target board.
Head shot: The player throws the die into the year making it 
bounce off his head before hitting the table..
Spin shot: The player throws the die making it spin like a 
top, before hitting the target board.
Nose shot: The player places the die on his nose and lets it 
roll towards the target board.
Backwards shot: The player stands with his back to the table 
and throws the die (he can twist from his waist and/or neck 
to look at the target board)..
Slam shot: The player throws the die into the air, then slams 
it towards the table with his hand..
Sitting shot: The player sits down on the floor and throws 
the die. No matter how tall he is, he has to keep his eyes 
below the level of the tabletop
Jump shot: The player jumps into the air and throws the die 
before touching the floor again.
Under the table shot: The player throws the die with his 
hand held lower than the table top.
Dancing shot: The player jumps a bit and turns around 180 
degrees, so he ends up face to the target. During the landing 
the player must through.
Far shot: The player stands up and steps back one step away 
from the table. Then he throws the die normally.
Monster
Some monsters require the players to make special kinds of shots to 
deal damage to that particular monster (monsters with special shot 
icons on their cars); other monsters have other types of special abili-
ties:
Destroy equipment after a miss: If the player 
misses the target board, he has to discard and 
equipment card of his choice. If the player does 
not have any equipment, nothing happens.
x
Heal after a miss: If the player misses the target 
board, the monster heels „X“ HP.
Small target: Dice landing in the „1 zone“ of the 
target board are considered missed shots. 
-1
Lose Gold after a miss: If the player misses the 
target board, he has to discard 1 GC from the 
treasury. If there is no Gold in the treasury, nothing 
happens.
 No green, red or blue dice can be used during 
the fight. This applies from the beginning of the 
fight.
Critical miss: If the player misses the target board, 
all players take the monster‘s damage..

Credits
Designers: Lorenzo Silva, Aureliano Buonfino and 
Lorenzo Tucci Sorentino
IIllustrations and graphic design: Giulia Ghigni
Production management: Heiko Eller & Harald Bilz
Editing and layout: Lorenzo Silva and Heiko Eller
Layout: Heiko Eller and Helena Göres
Proofreading: Carsten-Dirk Jost
With help from: Stephan Rothschuh
Special thanks to: Helena Görres, to all Gamersof the Heidel-
berger Burgevents Stahleck 2010 and 2011, to Cliquenabend 
and Michael Kröhnert.
Exklusive Distribution in Germany: 
Heidelberger Spieleverlag, Dr. August-Stumpf-Str. 7-9, 
74731 Walldürn, Germany
Visit us online:
www.heidelbaer.de
www.craniocreations.com