The dungeon lay in shambles, the dungeon lord was vanquished, and the spare pick-axe supply was 
running low. It was a tough day to be an imp.
As the imps trudged back to town, thinking about where they could find another job, one of them 
said, “You know what this town needs? A pet shop.”
A pet shop for dungeon lords? What a great idea! Original! Yeah, and no one else is doing it! No 
competition! We’ll be rich! We’re natural entrepreneurs! Yeah, natural manures! 
And now you have opened the first pet shop in town. Right next door to the other first pet shop in 
town. Across the street from two more. Your impish heart swells with optimism, for you know that 
your sound business acumen, your attention to detail, and your long-handled manure shovel will 
give your pet shop a reputation that stands head, shoulders, and pointy ears above the rest. 
You can’t keep a good imp down.
In Dungeon Petz, you run a pet shop for dungeon lords. You start with your family of imps, some gold, and one dirty old cage.
The game consists of five or six rounds. In each round, you send your family members out to buy baby pets, cages for pets, food for pets, 
etc. Those imps who are not out shopping are busy caring for the pets, entertaining them, cleaning their cages, and watching them grow. 
Beginning with the second round, your pets will participate in local pet shows. The prizes you win will boost your reputation. In the third 
round, the local dungeon lords begin arriving, looking for pets. The more closely you match their tastes, the better your reputation will be.
Exhibitions and customers are revealed in advance, so you can plan for them – either by purchasing a suitable pet or by working to get 
the most from the pets you already have. However, these pets are living creatures. When they do something unpredictable, you will have 
to improvise.
At the end of the game, you get extra reputation for your economic success and your shop’s appearance. The player with the most 
reputation points wins.
A Few Words from Vlaada
I dedicate this game to my wife Marcela. She was its first playtester, and she helped me a lot. And she seems to be really enjoying the 
game. I hope you will, too. 
For a long time I have wanted to create a game where you have to handle entities that behave on their own. Here it is. You cannot be in 
complete control of your pets. It sometimes happens that they want to play when you need them to be combative, or that they refuse to 
eat a treat an old dungeon lady gives them and poop on the floor instead. In such cases, please do not be mad at them, at the game (or at 
the designer :). Treat your pets with love, and everything will turn out okay.
Also, after Dungeon Lords, I wanted to create another game David Cochard would illustrate. It was probably the first game I started to 
create with the artist in mind, and it was a pleasure to work with David again.
Please do not be scared by a longer rulebook. Sometimes I explain the game in detail instead of just describing it. In fact, the game is not 
difficult, and all the important information is on each player’s game board. In the text, the important information is written like this.
INTRODUCTION

SETTING UP THE GAME
The game is for 2 to 4 players. In this rulebook, we will 
describe it as a 4-player game. 
Rules for a 2- or 3-player game will be written 
in boxes like this one. If you are playing with 
four, you can ignore them.
Most of this rulebook explains the basic rules – the ones you 
should use for your first game, or when introducing new 
players. Advanced rules are explained in their own section. 
They give you more control over the game, and reduce
randomness. Read them and consider whether to include 
some or all of them in future games.
The Appendix has rules for specific exhibitions and artifacts. 
It also includes profiles of all pets and customers.
		
About This Rulebook
Central Board
The Central Board is placed in the center of the table, so 
that everyone can see and reach it easily. It depicts the town 
with all the possibilities it offers. 
 The Central Board is two-sided. When playing with 
4 players, make sure you use the side without arrows 
between spaces.
For a 2- or 3-player game, 
use the other side of the 
Central Board, the one with arrows 
between spaces. 
Progress Board
The Progress Board tracks the 
progress of the game. All players need 
to see it clearly, but only one player 
needs to be able to reach it.
 This board is also two-sided. When 
playing with 4 players, make sure you 
use the side with four imps in the 
corner. Note that a 4-player game 
has five rounds.
For a 2- or 
3-player 
game, use the other side of the 
Progress Board, with two and 
three imps in the corner. Note 
that a 2- or 3-player game 
has six rounds.
Player Boards
Each player chooses a color and takes 
the 10 imp figures, 2 minion figures, 
Achievement Tile, and Burrow Board in 
that color. The Burrow Board depicts the 
living quarters and storehouse of an imp 
family. The upper part of the Burrow 
Board is a screen with Quick Reference 
Tables. 
Each player also takes one Pet Display 
Board. These do not come in separate 
colors.
Starting Player 
Token
The player who most recently fed a pet 
gets the Starting Player Token. Of course, 
you can also choose the starting player 
randomly, arbitrarily, or by fiat. Just pick 
somebody.
central board
progress board
player boards

Final Scoring 
Exhibitions
These two exhibitions take place at 
the end of the game. The top one 
scores the economic value of your pet 
shop. The bottom one scores your 
shop’s appearance.
Cardboard Pieces
Carefully punch the cardboard pieces out of the punchboards.
Stickers
The Starting Player Token and 8 wooden minion figures can 
be decorated with stickers.
Note: There are 2 minions in each color, but you have enough 
stickers for three. The imps hoped to persuade all three 
minions from their old dungeon to join them, but one decided 
to retire.
Pets
Assemble the 18 pets. Each consists of one egg-shaped piece 
and a round wheel. Use the plastic fastener to join them 
together, as shown. Once the pet is assembled, its wheel should 
rotate easily (but not so easily that it won’t stay in place).
Note: Small pictures in the centers of the wheels indicate 
which wheel goes with which egg-shaped piece. They will not 
be visible once the pet is assembled. Please take care that each 
pet gets the proper wheel.
Note: Do not throw away unused fasteners; you never know 
when a bonus pet might appear.
		
Progress Board
		
Before the First Game
Progress Marker
Put the Progress Marker on the first space 1 
of the Progress Track. At the end of each round, 
it moves one space to the right, until it reaches 
the Final Scoring Space 
Extra Imps
Each player puts one of his or her imps in each of these four 
spaces. These imps are distant relatives, eager to join the 
family business. The ones farther to the right live farther 
away, so they can’t arrive until the corresponding round.
Exhibitions
Randomize the eight exhibition tiles, and deal one to each exhibition space, 
face down. Remove the remaining exhibitions from the game without anyone 
looking at them. Then turn up the first exhibition tile (the one for round 2).
An exhibition tile has two parts. The upper part depicts the rules for scoring that 
round’s exhibition. The lower part determines what food will arrive in the food 
market that round. Round 1 has no exhibition tile, so the food is depicted 
directly on the Progress Board.
Customers
Randomize the eight customer tiles, and deal one to 
each customer space, face down. Remove the remaining 
customer tiles from the game without anyone looking at 
them. Then turn up the first customer tile (the one for 
round 3).
Note that the last round will have 2 customers (both of which 
are still face down).
The Progress Board helps you keep track of what applies each particular round.

		
Central Board
Action Spaces
The Central Board depicts 14 square action spaces. During the 
game, you will send your imps to these spaces to take various 
actions: buying pets, buying cages, buying food, etc.
The 2- and 3-player side of the Central Board has four extra 
action spaces. These smaller squares are dummy action spaces. 
The action spaces on this side of the board are organized in 
3 groups of 6 spaces connected by arrows. One space in each 
group is marked with a small dot. 
For a 3-player game, take 3 imps of the non-player 
color and put one imp on each action space 
marked with a dot. A neutral imp blocks its action space so 
that the players cannot use it that round. At the start of each 
round (except round 1) the neutral imps move one space ahead, 
following the arrows, so that different actions will be blocked 
each round.
A 2-player game is similar except that you take 6 imps 
in a non-player color and block two action spaces 
in each group – the one marked with a dot, and the one that 
is three spaces away from it (following the arrows).
Cage Stack
The big rectangular tiles 
represent cages. Mix them up and 
put them in a face-down stack 
next to the Central Board.
Cage Options
Draw 3 cages from the top of the cage stack and place them face up in the three pits.
In a 2-player game, one of the cage-buying action spaces is blocked by a neutral 
imp. Because of that, turn up only 2 cages. (You will turn up 3 cages only in 
rounds in which neither cage-buying action space is blocked.)
Addon Stack
These narrow rectangular tiles are addons 
for the cages. Mix them up and put them in 
a face-down stack next to the Central Board.
Addon Options
Draw 2 addons from the top of the 
addons stack and place them face up 
on these two spaces.
Pet Pile
Mix up the pets and put them in 
a face-down pile near the Central Board.
Hint: Alternatively, you can keep the pets in 
a small pouch and draw them out at random.
Younger Pet Options
Draw 3 pets from the pile and place them 
face-up in the lower half of the pet corral. Note 
that the imps are putting up signs to remind 
you that these pets should be size 2. Set the 
pets’ wheels to reveal the first two colored bars.
In a 2- or 3-player game, one of 
the lower pet-buying action 
spaces is blocked by a neutral imp. Because of 
that, turn up only 2 pets. (You will turn up 
3 pets only in rounds in which neither lower 
pet-buying action space is blocked.)
Older Pet 
Options
Draw 1 more pet 
from the pile and 
place it face-up in the 
upper half of the pet 
corral. Set the pet’s 
wheel to reveal the 
first 3 colored bars, as 
shown on the imps’ 
signs.

Food Market
The market has 3 food stands: one sells 
meat, one sells vegetables, and one sells a 
mixed offer of both. Put 2 vegetable tokens 
in the green stand, 2 meat tokens in the red 
stand, and 1 of each in the mixed-food stand, 
as depicted on the Progress Board. 
In a 2- or 3-player 
game, the 
mixed-food stand action space is 
blocked by a neutral imp. You deal 
no food there in round 1. This is 
depicted on the Progress Board: 
Artifacts Stack
Mix up the round artifact 
tiles and put them in a 
face-down stack next to the 
Central Board. 
Food Tokens
There are two types of 
food: Vegetables 
 are 
green, and meat 
 is 
red. Sort the food tokens 
into the two storage areas 
on the Central Board.
Gold Tokens
Gold 
 is yellow. Put all 
the gold tokens into the bank 
in the center of the board. 
Yes, this is what the pet 
business is all about!
Potion Stack
Set the five Potion Cards in a stack on the hospital building. 
Need Decks
Sort the Need Cards by color into 4 decks. Shuffle each deck separately and place it 
face-down next to the Central Board. Leave room for 4 discard piles. When a deck runs 
out, you will shuffle the discard pile and use it to make a new deck.
Suffering 
Place these plastic tokens 
near the Central Board. 
They represent suffering. 
Whenever your pet suffers 
 it will get a token.
Manure 
Heap these tokens near 
the Central Board. They 
represent manure 
Yes, this is what the pet 
business is really about. 
Mutation 
Place these tokens near 
the Central Board. They 
represent mutations. If your 
pet mutates 
 it will get 
one of these tokens. The 
two sides are equivalent. 
Minion Figures
Each player has one minion figure on space 0 of 
the scoring track. These minions keep track of the 
players’ reputations. Your goal is to have the highest 
reputation at the end of the game.
Each player’s other minion figure sits on space 0 of 
the exhibition tent. These minions keep track of the 
players’ scores in the exhibitions.
Artifact Tents
Draw 2 artifacts from the 
top of the stack and place them 
face-up on the two blue tents.
In a 2-player game, the 
artifact-buying action 
space is blocked by a neutral 
imp. Because of that, deal no 
artifacts to the blue tents for 
round 1.

		
player Boards
Burrow Board
Pet Display Board
Screen / Quick Reference Tables
The upper part of your Burrow Board is used as a screen to 
hide your plans during a certain phase of the game. 
It also has Quick Reference Tables. The left part depicts the 
6 phases of a round. The middle part shows how the symbols 
are distributed in the 4 Need Decks. The right part reminds 
you of how to meet your pets’ needs (and why you should). 
The meanings of these tables will become clear once you have 
read the rules.
Imp Quarters 
and Treasury
Your imps live here when not at 
work. This is also where you keep 
your gold. You start with 6 imps 
of your color here (the ones 
remaining after you put four on 
the Progress Board) plus 2 gold 
tokens from the bank.
Exits
When you send your 
imps on shopping 
trips, they go out these 
6 exits.
Food Storage
The top row is for vegetables and the bottom row is for 
meat. Fresh food starts in the left-most chamber. When it 
ages, it moves one chamber to the right. Really old food is 
thrown out. Hey, imps have standards. 
At the start of the game, you have no food.
Initial Hand
Draw 4 Need Cards, one of each 
color. These are secret. You may look at 
them, but you keep them in your hand.
Achievement Tile
Keep this on the table next to your pet shop. You might 
not need it in your first game, but if you score more than 
50 reputation points: Ta dah! A great achievement! Put 
your Achievement Tile on the 0-space of the Scoring Track 
with the 50 side up. If your minion counts up 50 more 
points: Bump ba-da dah! The ultimate achievement! Flip 
the tile over to the other side. If your minion counts up 
50 more points: Bingeley bingeley beep! Flip it over to the 
third side. Hey, wait a minute. Are you cheating?
Initial Cage
You start with one cage, pre-printed on the board. It’s 
not as good as the ones you can buy in town, but hey, 
it’s free! The red 1 means it has strength 1. The purple 1 
means it has antimagic 1. It has no special ability icons.
Note: The sum of the parameters of this cage is 2. 
The cages you buy in town sum to 3 (if you include the 
number of special ability symbols they have).
Initial 
Manure
Put 1 manure 
token in your 
initial cage. Yes, 
the cage is a little 
dirty, but hey, it’s 
free!
Cage Plots
You have plots for 4 cages. During the 
game, you can buy more cages and 
install them in the empty plots (or even 
over your initial cage, if you want to get 
rid of it).
Addon Spaces
Each cage (including the 
initial cage) can have 
1 addon. Addons improve 
your cages.
In a 2- or 3-player game, return the non-
player boards, minions, Achievement Tiles, 
and imps to the box, except for the 6 or 3 neutral imps that are 
used to block action spaces on the Central Board.
Artifact Storage
Right now, your basement is empty, except for 
some old useless junk. Someday, you will use it to 
store mighty artifacts – rare books and tools of 
unbelievable power. At least you hope they will 
have unbelievable power and not turn out to be 
more useless junk.

This phase has 3 steps:
Reveal new information.
Add new stuff.
Get income.
These steps may be done in any order. All 
players can work on setup simultaneously. Just 
don’t forget to take your income. 
For your first round, the first 2 steps were taken care of when you 
set up the game boards. All you have to do is get your income.
Getting Income
The imps in your shop no longer dig gold, but you have 
relatives who do. Each round, they send you some … just not 
so much that their dungeon lord would notice.
Each round (including the first one), all players get income. 
The starting player and the player on his or her left 
get 1 gold. The other two players get 2 gold. Take your 
gold from the bank on the Central Board.
In a 2- or 3-player game, the starting player 
gets 1 gold, and the others get 2 gold.
Note: After getting income for the first round, each player 
will have 3 or 4 gold tokens.
You can skip to Phase 2 – Shopping 
and read the rest of this section 
when you set up for round 2.
Revealing New 
Information
In setting up the game, you should have revealed the 
exhibition for round 2 and the customer for round 3. You have 
no more information to reveal in round 1. In later rounds, do 
the following:
Turn up the first unrevealed exhibition tile (if 
there still is one). Players will always know the 
exhibitions for the current round and the next 
one.
Turn up the first unrevealed customer tile. 
Players will always know the customers for 
the current round and the next two rounds. 
The final round has 2 customers. When you 
reveal the first one, reveal the second one, too.
Adding New stuff
When you set up the game, you got the Central Board ready 
for round 1. In later rounds, do the following: 
In a 2- or 3-player game, 
you start by moving each 
neutral imp to the next action space. 
(Follow the arrows.) An action with a 
neutral imp is blocked. An imp on one of 
the four dummy action spaces is not 
blocking any action. He is just resting for 
that round.
New Food
The new round’s exhibition tile (the 
one in the same column as the 
Progress Marker) has numbers at 
the bottom that tell you how much food should be in 
the three food stands. Food tokens in the food stands do not 
accumulate from one round to the next. Discard any leftover 
food and put fresh food in the food stands, according to the 
numbers shown on the exhibition tile. (Well, okay, if you re-use 
a food token, the imps probably won’t know the difference.)
If an action space next to a food stand is 
blocked by a neutral imp, that stand should 
have no food this round. The imp just bought it all.
In addition, if a neutral imp is on the small green dummy 
action space, the number of vegetable tokens in the 
mixed-food stand is 1 less than the value shown on the 
exhibition tile. Similarly, a neutral imp on the red dummy 
action space means the mixed-food stand gets 1 less meat. 
This food just mysteriously disappeared. Perhaps the neutral 
imp was hungry.
New Artifacts
Remove any artifacts left over from the previous round, and 
place 2 new artifacts in the artifact tents, face up. 
If the action space next to the blue tents is 
blocked by a neutral imp, do not add any 
new artifacts.
New Cages
At least one cage will be left over from the previous round. 
Take the lowest of the leftover cages, put it in the uppermost 
pit and discard the rest. Deal 2 new cages to the lower pits, 
face up. 
If one of the two cage-buying action spaces is 
blocked by a neutral imp, you deal only 1 new 
cage, leaving one pit empty. Apparently, the neutral imp took 
one cage before you could get there. (If both cage-buying action 
spaces are blocked, you have moved the neutral imps incorrectly.)
New Addons
As with cages, at least one addon will be left over from the 
previous round. Move it to the top addon space. If there are 
two, discard the upper one and move the lower one into the 
top space. Either way, put 1 new addon in the lower space. 
If the addon-buying action space is blocked by 
a neutral imp, skip this step. Don’t add or 
discard any addons until the next round.
New Pets
There is always at least one size 2 pet left in the lower half 
of the pet corral, but it would be too harsh to just discard a 
young pet. 
All pets in the lower half get bigger. Set their wheels to 
size 3 (showing 3 bars) and move them into the upper half of 
the pet corral. You see? The upper half has enough space for all 
of them, so none of them have to be discarded.
Oh. But what if the upper half has pets left over from previous 
rounds? Well, it doesn’t make any sense to keep those around 
any longer. Before moving pets from the lower half to the 
upper half, discard all pets in the upper half. They are 
removed from the game, but don’t worry: They go to farms 
in the country where they live happily ever after. For each pet 
discarded, add 1 meat token to the meat stand in the 
food market. Um, it’s just a rule.
Once the lower half is empty, reveal 3 new baby pets, set 
them to size 2, and put them in the lower half of the pet 
corral.
If the older-pet-buying action space is blocked 
by a neutral imp, he buys one of the aging 
pets. Take the leftmost pet that you moved from the lower half 
to the upper half and remove it from the game. (The strange 
rule about extra meat does not apply to it.) 
If one of the lower two pet-buying action spaces is blocked, 
deal only 2 new pets to the lower half.
Each round consists of 6 phases. These are summarized in 
the left-hand Quick Reference Table on your Burrow Board.
Each phase has multiple steps, each represented by a 
pictogram. Follow these steps in order, from the top down.
THE ROUND
		
Phase 1 – Setup
Phase 1 – Setup
Phase 2 – Shopping
Phase 3 – NEED CARDS
Phase 4 – Showing Off
Phase 5 – Business
Phase 6 – Aging

Imps are smart shoppers. They shop even better in groups. 
A bigger group has a better chance of finding good stuff. You 
can improve their chances by giving them some gold, but they 
don’t require it. Imps are really smart shoppers.
The Shopping phase has two steps:
First, all players simultaneously and secretly 
divide their imps and gold into groups.
Next, the groups are revealed, and the 
players decide where to send their imps, 
starting with the biggest groups.
Grouping Imps
All players put up the screens on their Burrow Boards to 
hide their groups from each other. Each player divides his 
or her imps and gold into 6 groups (at most). When 
everyone is ready, all players drop their screens to reveal their 
groups for the next step.
Each group has 1 or more imps and possibly some gold. There 
is no limit to how many imps and gold tokens you can put in 
a group. No group is required to have gold, but every group 
must have at least one imp. You cannot send gold to go 
shopping alone. If you closely look at a gold token, you will see 
why. Yes, that’s right: It has no legs.
Your Burrow Board has 6 exits. Put your groups on these 
spaces, ordered by size, with the biggest group on the left. 
The size of your group is determined by the total number of 
imp figures plus gold tokens. (The order in which you place 
groups of the same size is not important.)
You can make fewer than 6 groups if you want. You can make 
a few big groups or many small groups or a mix of sizes. You 
may keep some imps and/or gold in your Imp Quarters and 
Treasury area if you don’t want to assign them all to groups. 
However, it might be a good strategy to assign all your imps 
to groups, because during the next step, you can decide to not 
send them shopping.
Note: Imps love to brag. For this reason, the number of imps 
and gold tokens you have is always public knowledge. Even 
when the screens are up, if someone asks how many you have, 
you must answer truthfully and proudly.
Choosing Actions
Now it’s time to go shopping! The biggest groups go first. A 
group’s size is equal to its total number of imp figures plus 
gold tokens. So a group of 3 imps, a group of 2 imps and 1 gold 
token, and a group of 1 imp and 2 gold tokens are all the same 
size. 
Biggest Groups Go First
Start this step by finding the player with the biggest group. 
This player’s biggest group is the first one sent 
shopping.
If multiple players are tied for the biggest group, those players 
will take turns in clockwise order, starting at the Starting 
Player Token. If you have multiple groups of the biggest size, you 
will choose one of them to send to town on your turn. You will 
have to wait until your turn comes again to send another one.
Four groups have size 4, and no player has a bigger group. 
Red has the Starting Player Token, so she is the first to send 
a biggest group. Following clockwise order, it is Yellow’s turn 
next. He can send the group with 4 imps or the group with 
1 imp and 3 gold. Green doesn’t get a turn because she has no 
group of size 4. Blue sends his biggest group. Going around 
again, we see that Red has no more groups that big, so we skip 
to Yellow, who sends whichever group of 4 he has left.
Once all groups of the biggest size are gone, move on to the 
next biggest size and send them the same way. (Use the 
Starting Player Token to determine order again, regardless of 
who had the last turn sending a biggest group.) Continue in 
this way until every group has been dealt with.
Yellow has the biggest group, so he gets to start by sending his 
group of 6. No one has a group of 5. Green and Blue both 
have groups of 4, so they will take turns. Going around the 
table from the Starting Player Token, we see that Green plays 
first. Then Blue sends his group of 4. Then Green sends her 
second group of 4. We have multiple groups of 3, so Red will 
play first. Then Yellow. Then Blue. And finally Red sends her 
second group of 3. Red has the only group of 2, so she sends 
that. Finally, players send their single-imp groups in order – 
Red, Green, Blue, Green, Blue, Blue. All groups have been 
sent.
A Group Does Not Have To Go
When it is your turn to send a group, you have two options:
• Send the group to buy something: Choose an unoccupied 
action space on the Central Board and put all the 
group’s imps on that space. The group’s gold (if 
any) goes to the bank in the center of the Central 
Board. It has been spent. Perform your chosen action 
immediately (as explained in the next section). Your imps 
remain on that space for the rest of the round, preventing 
other players from choosing that space. Your imps will 
return home at the end of the round, but the gold is gone.
• Or keep the group home: Put all the group’s imps 
and gold back in your Imp Quarters and Treasury 
area. You may keep a group home for any reason. Maybe 
you don’t like any of the action spaces that are left. Maybe 
you need those imps to take care of pets later in the 
round. Maybe you don’t want to lose the gold. It is up to 
you.
You make this decision every time it is your turn to send a 
group. If you have two (or more) groups you could send, you 
pick one of them to send or keep home and wait until your 
next turn to decide what the other group does. (The order of 
same-sized groups on your Burrow Board is not important.)
Note: Dummy action spaces have no effect, 
and no player can send a group there.
		
Phase 2 – Shopping

Action Spaces in the Market
The upper right corner of the Central Board has a market 
where you can buy food and artifacts. When you pick one of 
these spaces, you get everything that space offers.
Getting Food
When you choose a food-buying 
action space, take all food 
tokens from the corresponding 
food stand and put them in the 
leftmost Food Storage space of your 
Burrow Board. Vegetables 
 go in 
the upper row. Meat 
 goes in the 
lower row. There is no limit to the 
number of tokens a Food Storage 
space can hold, but your food will 
age from round to round.
Example: This player 
has 
just 
acquired 
1 vegetable and 1 meat 
token from the mixed-
food stand.
Getting Artifacts
These mysterious tents hold two 
mystical items of great magical 
power … at least, that’s what the 
merchant said. 
When you choose the artifact-
buying action space, take both 
artifacts and put them in the 
Artifact Storage section of your Burrow Board. Their vast 
powers are yours from the moment you acquire them until the 
end of the game. Their functions are explained in the Appendix.
Action Spaces near 
the Pet Corral
The action spaces on the left side of the Central Board offer 
the big stuff: cages, addons, and pets! When you pick one of 
these spaces, you choose one of the available items.
Choosing a Cage
When you choose one of these action spaces, you get 1 of 
the available cages. The first player 
to choose this action takes 1 of three 
cages. The second player takes 1 of 
the two cages left. There are only two 
action spaces, so the 
third cage cannot be 
taken this round.
A 
group 
must 
have at least 2 imps to take this 
action. A single imp cannot carry 
a cage by himself. Cages are just too 
heavy. To remind themselves of this 
rule, the imps have rolled out square 
rugs marked with 2 imps. A group 
with one imp cannot take this action, 
regardless of how much gold it has.
When you get a new cage, put it on one of the 4 plots on your 
Pet Display Board. You may put it on an empty plot or replace 
an older cage (including the initial cage pre-printed on your Pet 
Display Board). When you replace a cage, discard it, and transfer 
its contents (pet and all manure tokens) to the new cage. 
(Addons are not discarded when you add or replace a cage.)
Technical Note: Actually, you don’t have to decide 
immediately. You may set your new cage aside and wait until 
the beginning of phase 3 to decide where to place it.
Choosing an Addon
When you choose this action space, 
you take 1 of the available 
addons. The other one cannot be 
taken this round. Note that any 
type of group can use this action 
space. (Addons aren’t as heavy as 
cages.)
Each plot on your Pet Display Board 
has a space for one addon. An addon improves the statistics of 
that plot’s cage. You may put an addon on an empty plot, but 
it will have no effect until that plot gets a cage. 
Addons and cages cannot be moved to a different plot. 
However, as with cages, you may discard an old addon to 
replace it with a new one.
Technical Note: Actually, you don’t have to decide 
immediately. You may set your new addon aside and wait until 
the beginning of phase 3 to decide where to place it.
Buying a Pet
Three action spaces allow you to buy pets. The lower two 
allow you to choose a size-2 pet from the lower row of 
the pet corral. The upper space allows you to choose a size-
3 pet from the upper row. When you choose a pet-buying 
action space, take 1 pet from the corresponding row.
Note: Three baby pets are dealt to the lower row, but only 
two can be taken this round, so there will always be at least 
one pet moved to the upper row next round. The upper row 
may have more than one pet, but only one can be taken.
A group must have gold to take this action. No matter 
how much your imps haggle and beg, pets are too valuable to 
be given away for free. To remind you of this rule, each action 
space is marked with a smiling imp and a shiny gold piece. A 
group with no gold tokens cannot take this action, regardless 
of how many imps it has.
When you gain a new pet, put it anywhere on your Pet Display 
Board. You don’t have to put it in a cage until the beginning of 
phase 3. It is legal to take a pet that you have no cage for, but 
you will probably want to get a cage for it sometime during 
this phase.
Action Spaces Near 
the hospital
The four action spaces in the lower right corner have various 
functions.
Inviting New Imps
At the start of the game, 4 of your imps were 
put on the Progress Board to represent 
relatives from distant lands. They are eager to 
help you run your business, just as soon as you 
find time to fill out their immigration forms.
When you choose this action space, take from 
the Progress Board all imps of your color 
corresponding to this round and earlier 
rounds, i.e., the imp below the Progress 
Marker and all those on spaces to the left.
The new imps join the group on the action space and 
remain there until the end of the round. They will go back to 
your Burrow Board when the rest of the group does, and you 
will be able to use them in subsequent rounds.
Example: In round 1, Red sent a group to the imp-inviting 
action space and gained 1 imp. In Round 2, Yellow sent a 
group and gained 2 imps. At the start of round 3, the Progress 
Board looks like this.
Green or Blue could use this action space to gain 3 imps in 
round 3, but let’s suppose Red got there first, sending a group 
of 2 imps and 1 gold token. The gold is discarded to the Bank, 
and the group’s 2 imps are placed on the action space. Two red 
imps (from the second and third spaces on the Progress Board) 
are added to the group.

Visiting the Hospital
The 
hospital-visiting 
action space has two 
colors to remind you that 
it does two things.
When you choose this 
action space, draw one 
Potion Card. Also, if 
you have any imps in the hospital, take them out and 
add them to the group. The imps from the hospital will 
remain on the action space until the end of the round. They 
will return to your Burrow Board when the rest of the group 
does.
Example: Blue has two imps in the hospital 
from the previous rounds. He wants them 
back, so he sends his group of 1 imp and 
2 gold tokens to this space. (He could wait to 
send a smaller group there, but that would be 
risky; even a player with no imps in the 
hospital might want the free potion.) He 
returns the 2 gold tokens 
to the bank and puts the 
1  imp on the hospital-
visiting action space. He 
draws one Potion Card 
and moves both imps 
from the hospital to the 
action space.
Note: If one of your other imps gets wounded later in the 
round, he goes to the hospital, not to the action space. Your 
hospital visit only picks up the imps that were there when you 
chose the action.
Volunteering for Judging
Every exhibition needs 
trustworthy, 
unbiased 
judges. Your imps can 
volunteer for the job. 
When you choose this 
action space, move your 
minion figure on the exhibition tent ahead to the 
space marked 2. This will give you an advantage in phase 4.
Note: Round 1 has no exhibition. It makes no sense to choose 
this action in the first round. 
Booking Time on the Platform
You can sell your pets 
anywhere, but you build your 
reputation faster if you sell 
them from the platform. 
Unfortunately, it can be 
difficult to book time there.
Note: This is the most complex action space. If you wish, you 
may skip this section now and return to it after we explain 
how pets are sold in phase 5.
Although you cannot sell any pets until customers start 
arriving in round 3, you still might want to use this space in 
round 1 or 2. This is because this action space works differently.
At the end of the round, imps on this action space do not 
return to your Burrow Board. Instead, they will move 
over to the right side of the platform. When you sell a pet, 
you may use 1 of your imps on the platform: Remove 
the imp from either the platform action space or the right 
side of the platform and put it in the sold pet’s cage. It will 
return to your Burrow Board at the end of the round. The 
only way to get an imp back from the platform is to use it 
when selling a pet.
As with all action spaces, only one player can use this space 
each round. At the end of the round, you will move your group 
to the right side of the platform, making the action available 
again. After several rounds, the platform may have several 
colors of imps.
Note: This action is a long-term commitment. Each round, 
you can only sell one pet from the platform, so a large group 
of imps on the platform will return to you one-at-a-time over 
several rounds. If you think you need a big group to get here 
ahead of the other players, consider sending few imps and a 
lot of gold.
Example: Nobody chose this action in round 1. Anticipating 
that she would want to use the platform in later rounds, Green 
sent a single imp here in round 2. At the end of the round, the 
imp was moved to the right side of the platform.
In round 3, Yellow knows that everyone will want a chance 
to get the platform bonus so he sends a good-sized group here: 
2 imps and 2 gold. That will allow him to use the platform 
bonus in rounds 3 and 4, without tying up too many imps.
When players sell pets to the 
customer in round 3, Yellow 
uses one of his imps to get the 
platform bonus. That imp 
returns home. Green is selling 
a pet, too, but she is disappointed by the points she would get. 
She wants to use the platform bonus on a really good score. She 
decides to sell the pet without using the bonus and save her 
platform imp for round 4. The green imp stays on the right 
side of the platform, where it 
is joined by the remaining 
yellow imp at the end of the 
round.
Now it’s time to have fun with your pets! This 
phase has three steps:
Arrange cages and pets.
Draw Need Cards.
Assign Need Cards to pets.
These steps are followed in order. Everyone 
may play simultaneously. As soon as you have 
arranged your cages and pets, you may draw your Need Cards 
without waiting for other players. However, if you believe 
that other players’ decisions will affect yours, you may wait to 
finish your step until it has been finished by all players before 
you (in clockwise order, starting with the starting player).
Arranging 
Cages and Pets 
First, you have to assign each of your pets its own cage, where 
it will stay for the rest of this round. 
New Cages and Addons
This is the time when you make your final decision about 
where to place any cages and addons you acquired this round. 
You probably knew where you wanted to put them when you 
got them in phase 2, which is why the rules for placing cages 
and addons were given in that section. But if you weren’t sure 
of where to put them, or if you have changed your mind, you 
must make your final decision now. 
You will not be able to move your cages or addons 
to a different plot later in the game. Cages and addons 
acquired in previous rounds cannot be moved now, but they 
can be discarded and replaced, as described earlier.
Pets
Now each pet must be put in a cage. Pets do not have to stay in 
the cages they occupied earlier. If you move a pet, its suffering 
and mutation tokens move with it, while any manure tokens 
remain in the cage.
At the end of this step, each pet must have its own cage. 
It is not possible to keep two pets in one cage (although it is 
allowed to swap two pets even if you do not have another 
empty cage). 
If you have fewer cages than pets, you have to let the extra pets 
go. Remove them from the game. You may also voluntarily 
decide to release some pets even if you have enough cages. 
In any case, a released pet counts as a lost pet, and you 
may lose reputation for it. (See Losing a Pet, at the end of the 
next section).
		
Phase 3 – NEED CARDS

Drawing Need Cards
Once all your new cages and addons are in place and all your 
pets are in cages, it is time to draw Need Cards.
You should have 4 Need Cards in your hand, one of each 
color. (You may have more if you have books in your Artifact 
Storage.) Now for each revealed colored bar on each of 
your pets, draw one Need Card of that color.
Example: If these two 
are your pets, you draw 
1  green, 2 purple, and 
2  yellow Need Cards. 
You draw no red Need 
Cards. (Snakitty’s red 
bars have not been revealed yet.) You will end up with 1 red, 
2 green, 3 purple, and 3 yellow Need Cards in your hand.
Warning: Once you start drawing cards, you cannot 
change how pets are assigned to cages, so think twice 
before proceeding to this step.
Note: Players can all draw their cards simultaneously, but if 
someone thinks it matters, you should draw cards in order, 
beginning at the Starting Player Token and proceeding clock-
wise. If a deck runs out of cards, you shuffle its discard pile to 
make a new deck. In some situations, drawing before or after 
this shuffle might be important.
Note: If your group prefers, one player may deal cards to 
everyone, color-by-color, in order. Or each player could deal 
out a different deck. Leave your cards face down until you have 
finished assigning pets to cages.
Assigning 
Need Cards to Pets
Now it is time to make key pet care decisions.
Each pet must be assigned one card for each revealed 
color bar. The color of the card must match the color of the 
bar. Arrange the cards in a column, as shown, then put them 
next to the pet, face down.
Note: Some cards have double symbols at 
the bottom. Don’t worry about what the 
double symbols mean. They are for an 
advanced variant of the game. 
For now, play all cards right-side up.
 
Each Need Card assigns 1 need to its pet. This need is 
represented by a big symbol in the center of the card. It is this 
symbol, not the card’s color, that matters to your pet.
You want to assign needs that you can meet. For example, it is 
not good to assign hunger
 to a pet that you cannot feed, 
nor to assign anger
 to a pet in a weak cage. In the next 
section, we will cover this in detail.
A pet’s needs influence its behavior, which may make it easier 
or harder to sell. In later rounds, the Customer satisfaction 
and your performance in the exhibitions is determined by the 
Need Cards you assign.
Note: It is difficult to be prepared 
to meet all your pets’ needs, 
because you don’t know which 
cards you will draw. However, 
knowing the card distribution 
gives you an idea of what to expect. 
The middle Quick Reference Table 
on your Burrow Board depicts the 
distribution in each deck. For example, half of the purple deck 
is magic needs
, and the other half consists of 4 anger 
needs
, 4 play needs
, and 4 disease needs
Example: This pet has yellow and 
purple needs. The purple deck has no 
hunger cards. The yellow deck has only 
2 hunger cards. You might not need 
any food for this pet.
Note: You draw one card for each color bar and then you 
assign one card for each color bar. This means you will end up 
with one card of each color in your hand again. These extra 
cards give you a bit of flexibility.
Example: Suppose you decide not to buy any food for your 
pet. If you have the misfortune to draw one of the 2 hunger 
cards in the yellow deck, you can keep it in your hand and 
assign your pet a different yellow need. On the other hand, if 
you start the round with a yellow hunger card in your hand, 
you might want to try to get some food so that you can meet 
your pet’s needs if you draw a second hunger card.
Note: It may be advantageous to have pets that share colors. 
This gives you more options for assigning cards.
Birdie eats vegetables, while Snakitty eats meat. Snakitty 
has a green bar, so it has a good chance of being hungry. To 
plan for this, you took 2 meat tokens in phase 2. Birdie eats 
vegetables, but you do not have to worry about feeding it: Even 
if you draw two yellow hunger cards, you can assign one to the 
meat-eating Snakitty and keep the other one in your hand.
Potions
You acquire potions by visiting the hospital in phase 2. When 
assigning Need Cards to pets, a Potion Card may replace a 
Need Card of any color.
Example: You must assign this pet 
1 green and 1 yellow card. If you have 
a Potion Card, you may instead assign 
this pet 1 potion and 1 yellow card, or 
1 green card and a potion. If you have 
2 Potion Cards, you may assign this 
pet both of them.
The symbol on the Potion Card indicates that the creature will 
sleep peacefully, which is a need that requires nothing. Thus a 
potion may come in really handy when something goes wrong.
You start the game with a green hunger card. In phase 2, you 
acquire this pet. It seems likely that it will need food, but the 
other players have already taken all the meat from the market. 
You should consider sending a group of imps to the hospital 
to get a potion. Then you would not have to worry. Even if 
you drew another green hunger card, you could just assign 
the potion instead. And if you do not draw a hunger card, 
then you will be able to keep your potion and use it when you 
need it.
Speed of Play
Players with no pets will not draw or assign Need Cards. Late 
in the game, players with 2 or 3 grown pets will have a lot to 
consider, while a player with a single young pet won’t have 
much to do. If you have several pets, please be considerate and 
try to make your decisions swiftly. 
If you have few pets, please be patient. You can spend the time 
planning ahead for future customers and exhibitions. (And 
you can also take time to admire the detailed game boards.)

Now it is time to care for your pets and show 
them off at the exhibition.
Each player gets one turn, starting with the 
starting player and continuing clockwise. 
Each player will reveal the cards assigned and 
show how they are handled, concluding with 
the calculation of his or her exhibition score 
(except in round 1).
Once all players have dealt with needs and computed their 
exhibition scores, they will earn reputation points based on 
their order of finish in the exhibition.
Evaluating Needs
When it is your turn to 
show off, reveal all the 
needs you assigned to your 
pets. The Quick Reference 
Table in the upper right 
corner of your Burrow 
Board reminds you of the 
consequences of each need 
symbol. Symbols should be 
evaluated in the order 
shown. In some cases, order matters.
Hunger Needs
For each hunger need assigned to a pet, you 
must either spend one food token, or put 
one suffering token on the pet. The food token must 
correspond to the type depicted on the pet:
Herbivorous pets eat only vegetables (green tokens).
Carnivorous pets eat only meat (red tokens).
Omnivorous pets eat any kind of food (any 
combination of green and/or red tokens).
For every hunger need that is not met with food, you must add 
1 suffering token to the pet. This is not good. The suffering 
token will remain on the pet for the rest of the game. You will 
not gain as much reputation from selling the pet. Suffering 
might also give you a disadvantage in certain exhibitions.
Warning: If the number of 
suffering tokens on a pet is 
equal to or greater than its size (number of visible 
bars), it perishes. (See Losing a Pet at the end of this 
section.) That’s right. If you can’t meet your pet’s needs, you 
might kill it. Your pet will be removed from the game. You 
could lose reputation points. And you will feel guilty.
If your pet can eat vegetables, and if it is in 
a cage with this symbol, one hunger need 
is automatically satisfied. The pet grazes, 
so it can get by with one less vegetable token. This symbol can 
only satisfy one hunger need, so if the pet has more, the rest 
will have to be met with food tokens. If your pet is carnivorous 
or if no hunger need is assigned to it, this symbol has no effect.
An addon with this symbol works 
analogously. It feeds a pet that can eat 
meat. It has no effect on herbivores. 
Note: If a plot has both of these symbols (on its cage and/or its 
addon) it can satisfy two hunger needs for an omnivorous pet 
(but only one hunger need for a carnivorous or herbivorous 
pet).
Poop Needs
Your pet can meet this need all by itself. For each 
poop need assigned to a pet, add 1 manure 
token to its cage. 
When one or more poop needs are assigned to 
a pet in a cage with this symbol, add 1 less 
manure token. The pet still poops, but the 
cage gets no manure token. It just soaks in. If multiple poop 
needs are assigned, all but one produce manure tokens as 
usual. If no poop needs are assigned to the pet, this ability has 
no effect. (It does not absorb old manure tokens.)
Note: The manure tokens have no immediate effect. Later, you 
could sell the pet or move it to another cage and your imps could 
clean this cage out. Lots of manure might hurt your score in 
certain exhibitions. You also have to worry about manure when 
you assign disease symbols, as explained further on.
Play Needs
For each play need assigned to your pet, you 
must either employ an imp to entertain it 
or put one suffering token on it. Pets suffer 
when they get bored. All suffering tokens work the same way, 
as explained under Hunger, above. So it is possible to bore your 
pet to death.
To meet this need you will need to use an available imp – 
one that is still on your Burrow Board. The imps that 
you sent to town have not returned yet, so your only available 
imps are the ones you did not assign to a group and the ones 
from groups that you decided to keep at home.
The good news is that one imp can entertain two pets at once: 
When you put an imp on one of the four gaps between two 
cages, it meets 1 play need for each of the 2 adjacent 
pets. (It is also no longer an “available imp”. Playing with the 
pets keeps it pretty busy.) One imp cannot satisfy 2 play needs 
for the same pet, but you can use multiple imps to satisfy a 
pet’s multiple play needs.
And before you ask: No, you cannot put your imp in the center 
of the Pet Display Board to entertain pets in all four plots or in 
two non-adjacent plots.
A cage or addon with this symbol has toys or 
play equipment for the pet. One play need 
is automatically satisfied. Multiple such 
symbols can satisfy multiple play needs.
In phase 2, Red acquires 
these two pets and one cage 
with a playground. She 
knows the cage can meet one 
play need, but considering 
her cards, she decides to keep 
an imp at home instead of 
sending it to town. 
In phase 3, she draws these cards. She has no way to assign 
these pets only one play need. So she does it this way:
The imp satisfies 1 play need for each pet. Birdie has 2 play 
needs, but one of these is satisfied by the cage. Red could have 
assigned a yellow poop card instead of the yellow play card to 
one of the pets, but she would still have needed the imp there. 
It was more efficient (and sanitary) to use the imp’s ability to 
play with 2 pets.
		
Phase 4 – Showing Off
player’s hand
drawn cards

Anger Needs
When your pet needs to get angry, it just does. You 
don’t have to worry about satisfying it. You just 
have to worry about containing it.
Compare the total number of anger 
needs assigned to your pet with the 
strength of its cage – the big red number in 
upper left corner. An addon with a 
 symbol 
adds 1 to the strength of the cage.
As long as the number of anger needs is less than or equal to 
the total strength, nothing happens. But if a pet’s anger 
needs exceed its cage’s strength, the pet attempts 
to escape.
Now there are two possibilities. If you have enough imps on 
your Burrow Board, you can try to catch the pet. You need one 
available imp for every anger need that is not handled 
by the cage or its addon. Move that many imps to the 
hospital on the Central Board. The pet does not escape. Your 
injured imps will remain in the hospital until you send a group 
to get them in a later round. (Imps heal up quickly, but they 
like the attention and sympathy they get in the hospital. They 
won’t leave until someone comes to visit them.)
If you don’t have enough imps left on your Burrow Board or 
if you don’t want them injured, then your pet escapes. You 
lose it, and you may also lose some reputation points. (See 
Losing a Pet, later in this section.) 
Magic Needs
The magic need indicates that the pet is emanating 
magic. This need works similar to anger except 
that what matters is the cage’s antimagic.
Compare the total number of magic 
needs assigned to your pet with the 
antimagic of its cage – the big purple 
number in the upper right corner. An addon with 
a 
 symbol adds 1 to the antimagic of the cage.
As long as the number of magic needs is less than or equal to 
the total antimagic, nothing happens. But if a pet’s magic 
needs exceed its cage’s antimagic, the pet mutates. 
Put 1 mutation token on the pet for each magic need 
that is not handled by the cage or its addon. 
A mutation token represents 
weird growths that appear 
on your pet – extra eyes, 
tentacles, etc. The two sides 
of the token are equivalent. A pet with 1 mutation token might 
have some penalties later, but it is still okay. 
A pet with 2 mutation tokens 
disappears into another dimension. 
You lose the pet, which may cost you some reputation points. 
(See Losing a Pet, later in this section.) It goes away to a 
place where creatures with two eyes and no tentacles are 
considered freaky weird. It’s a lot like having your pet die from 
suffering except that you do not have to feel so guilty. 
There is always a chance that someday a postcard covered in 
ectoplasmic slime will pop into our dimension and inform you 
that your pet is safe and well.
Disease Needs
This need means your pet is in danger of getting 
sick. Its resistance to disease depends on how many 
disease needs it has and how messy its cage is.
A pet with no disease needs does not get sick. Without 
disease, your pet can stay healthy even living up to its neck in 
manure. Now there’s a vivid thought.
If you assigned at least one disease need to your pet, add the 
number of disease needs to the number of manure 
tokens in its cage. If the total is 2 or less, nothing happens. 
A pet in a clean cage can have 2 disease needs without getting 
sick. A pet with one manure token can handle one disease 
need. You don’t want to assign disease needs to a pet that has 
2 or more manure tokens in its cage.
Warning: Note that poop needs 
 are evaluated before 
disease needs. Take this into account when you assign cards. 
Even a pet in a clean cage will have trouble if you assign it 
2 poop needs and 1 disease need.
If the total number of disease needs and manure tokens is 
higher than 2, you give the pet one suffering token 
because it got sick, plus one suffering token for each 
point by which it exceeded 2. So a sum of 2 means zero 
suffering tokens, but a sum of 3 means two suffering tokens. 
A sum of 4 means three suffering tokens, etc.
Warning: Keeping a pet in a cage with many manure tokens 
is risky. It stays healthy as long as you don’t have to assign 
disease needs to it, but sometimes you have no choice.
Potions
A potion makes your pet sleep happily. If animal 
rights activists complain about you drugging your 
pets, point them to this section of the rules so they 
can see how nasty the other cards can be.
When it is time to evaluate this card, don’t do anything to 
your pet. Instead, you must do something with your hand: 
Your potion replaced a card of a certain color, so you are 
still holding one more card than usual in that color. For each 
potion you assigned this round, you must discard one card 
of the color the potion replaced. The only way to keep 
more than 1 card of each color is with artifact books.
Speeding Play
Some players find it easier to plan if they move available imps 
when they assign need cards, placing them between cages if 
they will be entertaining pets or next to the red numbers if 
they will help catch them. This is fine. It can actually speed up 
play. You might also set aside the food that will be eaten and 
collect the tokens you will need to add while you are waiting 
for others to finish phase 3. However, because of exhibitions, 
sometimes you might want to wait until it is your turn in 
phase 4 to reveal your plans.
Scoring an Exhibition
After round 1, every round has an exhibition, which you have 
seen well in advance. When it is your turn to show off, you 
deal with all your pets’ needs, and then you count your 
exhibition score. Once everyone’s score has been counted 
on the exhibition tent, players score reputation points based 
on their order of finish in the exhibition.
Exhibition Tile
• The symbol in the upper left 
corner depicts whether it is a 
single-pet exhibition or a full-
display exhibition.
• The symbols in the light frame 
depict what counts positively 
toward your exhibition score.
• The symbols in the dark frame depict what counts 
negatively against your exhibition score.
• The umbrellas at the bottom told you what food to put 
in the market during setup. They are not relevant to the 
exhibition now.
The Appendix gives details on all the exhibitions. These are 
the general rules:
Single-Pet Exhibitions
This type of exhibition is for a single pet. Choose 1 of 
your pets to be scored in the exhibition.
The Arena is a simple exhibition: 
Each anger need is worth 2 points; 
each disease need is worth -1 point. 
When scoring your pet, you consider 
all needs that were assigned to the 
pet this round. Needs assigned in 
previous rounds do not matter.
 
This pet scores 2 × 2 – 1 = 3 for the depicted Arena 
exhibition. This is your highest-scoring pet so you announce 
that it will be the pet you enter in the exhibition. Move your 
minion figure to space 3 of the exhibition tent.
Warning: Many exhibitions give penalties not only for 
assigned needs but also for mutation tokens 
 or suffering 
tokens 
 on the pet, or for manure tokens 
 in its cage.

Full-Display Exhibitions
This type of exhibition scores your entire Pet 
Display Board. The scoring will consider needs 
assigned to your pets as well as mutation tokens 
and suffering tokens. If the exhibition counts 
manure tokens, you include all your manure tokens, even 
manure tokens in the empty cages.
Red was prepared for Children’s Day. She acquired two 
playful pets and kept an imp at home to play with them. 
Unfortunately, she assigned too much magic 
 to Birdie, 
and it mutated. And Snakitty made a mess in its cage. This 
exhibition scores 3 × 2 – 1 – 2 = 3 exhibition points. Red 
puts her minion on the third space of the exhibition tent.
Comparing Exhibition Results
After everyone is done showing off, the minions on the 
exhibition tent show how everyone did. Don’t forget that a 
player who sent a group to the exhibition-judging action space 
gets a bonus of 2 exhibition points.
If your exhibition score is zero or less, leave your minion 
on space 0. You do not take part in this exhibition. 
These imps are there to remind 
you how many reputation points 
you get for an exhibition. The 
player who scored the highest in 
the exhibition gets 8 reputation points. The second player gets 
6. The third player gets 4. The fourth player gets 2. But a 
player who did not score more than 0 points in the 
exhibition gets no reputation points. (So, for example, if 
two players’ minions are on the exhibition tent’s space 0, only 
the 8-point and 6-point awards are given out.)
In a full-display exhibition, you can score reputation 
points even when you have no pets. It is possible to get 
a positive exhibition score using only the judging action or the 
Whip of Obedience. However, to score reputation points 
in a single-pet exhibition, you must have a pet.
If two or more players are tied, they each receive the 
reputation award for that place reduced by 1 for 
every other player tied with them. See the examples.
Red and Yellow each score 7 reputation points for first place. 
Blue is not second; he is third. So Blue scores 4 points. Green 
scores nothing because she did not participate in the exhibition.
Blue scores 8 reputation points for first place. Red, Green, 
and Yellow score 4 points. (Second place is worth 6, minus 2 
because 2 extra players came in second.)
Everyone with a positive score in the exhibition will gain some 
reputation points. Once players have moved their minion 
figures on the scoring track, remove the exhibition tile from 
the Progress Board so it is clear that the exhibition is over.
With 2 or 3 players, this works the same way. 
The amount of points awarded is printed on 
the Central Board:
 
 
 
 
	
	
3-player game	
 2-player game
Losing a Pet
These are the ways in which you might lose a pet:
• In the first step of phase 3, you lose any pet that you do 
not put in a cage.
• When a pet has suffering tokens 
equal to or greater than its size 
(number of visible bars), you lose it, regardless of whether 
the tokens came from sickness, starvation, or boredom.
• When the number of 
anger needs assigned to 
a pet exceeds the strength of its cage, you lose the pet 
unless you send enough available imps to the hospital to 
cover the difference.
• When a pet has 2 or more mutation 
tokens, you lose it.
In any of these cases, the result is the same for you: Remove 
the pet from the game, and return any suffering and 
mutation tokens it had to the bank. Discard all needs and 
potions assigned to the pet. (They will not count in exhibitions 
this round.) However, all manure tokens remain in the lost 
pet’s cage. Of course. 
In 
addition, 
you 
lose 
one 
reputation point for every full 
10 points you have. (You lose 0 points if you have less than 
10. You lose 1 point if you have 10 to 19, etc.) As long as your shop 
is unknown, no one cares what you do, but the more famous 
you become, the more damaging it is to lose a pet. Note that it 
doesn’t matter how you lost your pet. Even if you claim you gave 
it freedom or sent it to a better dimension, the public will still 
suspect you buried it somewhere in your backyard.
Yeah, now we can get down to business:
Sell a pet. Oh. Actually, we have to wait 
for the first customer in round 3 before 
we can sell a pet. Skip this step in the 
first two rounds. However, you will do 
the following:
Discard assigned cards.
Use any available imps.
Selling a Pet
Beginning in round 3, you will have a customer who wants to 
buy some pets (two customers in the final round). You can see 
the customer several rounds ahead, so you should have plenty of 
time to plan. The customer will buy 1 pet from each player, 
as long as he or she likes it. Players sell their pets in order, 
beginning with the starting player and proceeding clockwise. 
If you don’t want to sell a pet, you don’t have to.
You can only sell a pet that is size 4 or larger. Smaller pets are 
too young to be sold to a customer. Note that on pets of size 3 or 
smaller this icon 
 reminds you that the pet cannot be sold.
Note: When you buy a pet, it is size 2 or 3. You can enter it in 
an exhibition, but you cannot sell it until a later round.
Customer Preferences
Matching a customer’s preferences 
is similar to scoring an exhibition. 
Aspects the customer wants are in 
the light frame, and aspects the 
customer doesn’t want are in the 
dark frame. Symbols refer either to 
Need Cards assigned to the pet this 
round or to suffering or mutation 
		
Phase 5 – Business

tokens on the pet (regardless of whether the tokens were 
acquired this round or earlier). From the symbols, you calculate 
a match score between the pet and the customer. (Converting 
the match score into reputation points is explained in the 
following sections.)
Note: Manure tokens in the cage are never scored when 
selling a pet. The customer is buying the pet, not the cage. A 
customer’s poop symbol 
 refers to the number of poop 
needs assigned to the pet this round, not to the manure tokens 
in the cage.
You can sell a pet to a customer only when the customer likes 
it. The match score has to be greater than zero. If 
the match is zero or negative, you cannot sell that pet to that 
customer.
This match is scored as follows: +4 for two 
, +1 for 
one 
, –1 for one 
, –1 for one 
. The total is 3. 
Dungeon Girl likes the pet and is willing to buy it.
Note: All customers agree on one thing: They don’t like 
suffering tokens.
For most customers, card-color 
does not matter. Only the symbol 
in the center of the card matters. 
However, these two rainbow-colored symbols indicate that only 
one card of each color counts toward matching that symbol. 
Farmer Troll is looking for variety: Two colors of 
 count 
for +6 points! Note that only one of the green 
 counts. 
This pet also scores +1 for 
 and –2 for 
. The total 
is 5 match points.
When selling a pet, the reputation you gain depends on 
the match with the customer. The happier the customer 
is, the more reputation you get. You can sell your pet either on 
the black market or on the public platform.
Selling on the Black Market
The imp hiding behind the platform 
reminds you that if you do not sell from 
the platform, your multiplier is ×2. Just 
announce which pet you are selling and 
remove it from the game. You score 
reputation points equal to 2 times 
your match score. You also get some gold, as explained 
below.
Selling from the Platform
It is more advantageous to sell from a 
public place. That way everyone can see 
your happy customer receiving the 
perfect pet. This is how reputation is 
built.
During the Shopping phase, you had a 
chance to send a group of imps to stand on the platform. To 
sell from the platform, you must have at least one imp on 
the platform on the Central Board. (Imps on the platform’s 
action space count as being “on the platform”.) Announce 
that you are selling from the platform, remove your pet from 
the game, and move one imp from the platform to 
the pet’s empty cage. (You can’t put him on your Burrow 
Board yet, because that is the place for imps that have not 
been used this round.) You score reputation points equal 
to 3 times your match score. You also get some gold, as 
explained below.
Receiving Gold
You receive the amount of gold depicted 
on the pet, in the small window on the 
right. This depends only on the size of the 
pet. It does not depend on the match score, nor on whether 
you sold from the platform. Note that pets of size 3 or less 
cannot be sold. 
Note: Carnivorous pets are difficult to raise, so they have the 
highest prices. Omnivorous pets are the least demanding, so 
they have the lowest prices.
If the pet has a mutation token, you get 
2 gold less. This is the law. You are not 
allowed to sell a mutant for full price. 
Imps have trouble understanding discounts. If the pet’s usual 
price is 2, you get 0 gold for selling it as a mutant. If the pet’s 
usual price is 1, you must pay the customer 1 gold when you 
sell the mutant. (If you can’t pay, then you can’t “sell” the pet.)
Note: No pet has 2 mutation tokens. Such pets vanished into 
another dimension during phase 3. The maximum penalty is 
2 gold.
More About Customers
Once everyone has had the opportunity to sell one pet to the 
current round’s customer, remove the customer tile from the game.
The last round has 2 customers, and every player can sell one 
pet to each. However, even in the last round, only one pet 
can be sold from the platform. If you are selling two 
pets, you have to sell at least one of them on the black market.
Customer Puzzle: 
Dungeon Girl and Dungeon Mistress each want to buy one 
of your pets in the last round of the game. You have 2 imps 
on the platform. Which pets should you sell to get the most 
reputation points? How many points and gold tokens will you 
earn?
Try to figure it out for yourself before you look at the solution. 
If you get the right answer, then you probably understand 
customers perfectly.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Solution: Snakitty has a match score of 3 for Dungeon Girl (who 
thinks it is too aggressive) and 2 for Dungeon Mistress (who 
didn’t want to see it poop this round). Birdie has a match score of 
4 for Dungeon Girl and 3 for Dungeon Mistress. (Neither likes 
the suffering token.) So you can either pair the pets for match 
scores of 3 and 3 or for scores of 4 and 2. The two choices look the 
same, but they are not: You can only sell 1 pet from the platform 
(even though you still have 2 imps there). The better choice is to 
sell Birdie to Dungeon Girl from the platform (for 12 reputation 
points) and Snakitty to Dungeon Mistress on the black market 
(for 4 reputation points). You score a total of 16 points.
How much gold do you get? You get 4 gold tokens. Each pet is 
worth 3, but Birdie’s mutation lowers its price to 1.

In this phase, three things happen:
• Your pets grow up.
• Your food loses freshness.
• Your imps finally return home.
These are all bookkeeping steps. You make no 
decisions in this phase. All players can play 
simultaneously. We do recommend doing the steps in order so 
you don’t forget anything.
Aging Pets
The window 
on the right 
side of your 
pet should show 1 or 2 arrows, which indicates whether you 
turn the wheel to reveal 1 or 2 more colored bars. A pet of size 
7 will not grow any more.
Note: A pet of size 2 or 3 grows by two; a pet of size 4 or more 
(i.e., a pet that can be sold) grows by one. (Recall that during 
the Setup phase, size-2 pets left in the pet corral only grow to 
size 3. This should not surprise you: Of course baby pets grow 
faster under the care of your pet store.)
Note: You may skip this step in the final round. The size of 
your pets does not matter in the final scoring.
Aging Food
For each food type, food 
in 
the 
rightmost 
chamber becomes too 
rotten to eat. Move those 
food tokens back to the 
Central Board. Then 
move all food remaining on your Burrow Board one chamber 
to the right. (These food tokens are closer to being thrown 
away, but they still look like fresh food tokens to your pets.)
Note: Meat spoils faster than vegetables. When you get a 
meat token, you must use it that round or the next. Otherwise 
it will be discarded. 
Note: You must do this step even in the last round, because 
food is counted in the final scoring.
Imps Return Home
Now most of your imps will return home:
• Take back all the imps on your Pet Display Board.
• Take back all your imps from action spaces on the Central 
Board, except imps on the platform. 
• If you have imps on the platform’s action space, you should 
move them to the right side of the platform.
• Imps on the platform and imps in the hospital remain on 
the Central Board.
This is also the step in which you move your exhibition minion 
figure back to space 0.
Discarding 
Assigned Cards
Even in rounds without exhibitions or customers, you need 
to remember to discard the assigned needs at this time. Need 
Cards go the appropriate color’s discard pile. Potion Cards go 
back to the stack on the Central Board.
Using Unused Imps
Even after shopping, playing with pets, and catching escapees, 
you might still have available imps on the Burrow Board. Tell 
them not to despair: Every imp will get a job this round. Each 
available imp either cleans cages or earns 1 gold token.
You assign imps to clean cages by moving them to the center 
of the Pet Display Board. Each such imp removes up to 
2 manure tokens from empty cages. It does not matter 
whether the 2 manure tokens come from the same cage or 
from two different cages. All that matters is that the 
manure tokens come from cages that are empty. You 
cannot move pets at this time. A cage with a pet cannot be 
cleaned.
After cleaning cages, take one gold for each imp that is still 
available. This imp earns you money for time spent on odd 
jobs around town, such as putting up signs, painting action 
spaces, or mowing the pet corral. (Anything but gold digging, 
really. That’s why he left the dungeons.)
So you see, it doesn’t hurt to keep some of your imps home in 
phase 2. They come in handy when taking care of pets, and if 
it turns out you don’t need them, they earn gold that will make 
your groups bigger next round.
To start the next round, move the Progress Marker to the next 
space of the Progress Board and determine the new starting 
player:
After most rounds, the Starting Player 
Token simply moves clockwise.
Before the final round, the Starting 
Player Token should be given to the 
player with the lowest reputation. In 
case of ties, pass it to the left and keep 
passing until it gets to one of the players 
with the lowest reputation.
In a 2- or 3-player game, simply pass the 
Starting Player Token to the left at the end of 
each round. It is a 6-round game, and this gives each player the 
token the same number of times.
At the end of the final round, it is time 
for final scoring. 
		
Phase 6 – Aging
		
Starting the Next Round

Final Scoring
The final scoring is treated as 2 exhibitions: one to score 
your business acumen, and one to score your pet display.
The exhibitions are scored separately. In each one, you 
count up everyone’s exhibition scores, compare their minion 
figures on the exhibition tent, and award reputation points 
based on the order of finish. No one gets the +2 bonus for 
being the judge.
As usual, players with exhibition scores of 0 or less are not 
awarded reputation points . However, there is one difference 
between these exhibitions and regular exhibitions: If your 
exhibition score is negative, you lose 1 reputation 
point for every exhibition point below 0. 
Business Acumen Exhibition
You score 1 exhibition point for 
each food token and each artifact 
tile on your Burrow Board. You 
score 1 exhibition point for each 
Potion Card in your hand. You 
score ½ an exhibition point for 
each gold token you have. Do not 
round the result. For example, if you score 3½, put your minion 
figure on the line between spaces 3 and 4.
You lose 2 exhibition points for each imp that is not home at the 
end of the game. This includes not only the imps in the hospital 
and on the platform, but also any imps on the Progress Board – 
your poor distant relatives who are still waiting for you to help 
them process their work visas. You will lose exhibition points 
unless you have all 10 imps on your Burrow Board. 
Note: And if you score, say, –½, then you must move your 
reputation-scoring minion back half a space.
Pet Display Exhibition
You score 2 exhibition points for 
each pet on your Pet Display 
Board. You score 1 exhibition point 
for each addon and each cage 
(including the one pre-printed on 
the board, if you did not replace it).
You lose 1 exhibition point for each 
token on your Pet Display Board: This includes mutation and 
suffering tokens on pets as well as manure tokens in all cages 
(with or without a pet).
The Winner
After the final scoring, the player with most reputation 
points wins. In case of a tie, the tied players share victory.
Visual Record 
of the Game
I liked to do this when I was testing the game, so I will share 
it with you.
If your table is big enough, you can make a display of satisfied 
customers. Each time you finish selling pets, set the customer 
and his or her new pets out on display instead of putting them 
back in the box. When you play well, the pets really seem to 
suit the personalities of their new owners.
(And, of course, you could also designate some dark corner of 
the table for the pets that did not fare so well.)
These rules were left out of the basic variant of the game to 
make the explanation simpler. We think they are good rules 
because they make the game more fair, more strategic, and 
more interesting, but feel free to not use one or more of them 
if that is the way you prefer to play.
Double-Symboled Cards
You may have noticed 
that each Need Deck has 
a dominant need. The 
green deck has mostly 
hunger cards. The red 
deck has mostly anger 
cards. The yellow deck 
has mostly play cards. The purple deck has mostly magic 
cards. These cards all have single symbols in their corners.
Cards that are less frequent in their decks have single symbols 
at the top but double symbols on the bottom. The double 
symbol depicts the symbol on the card and also the dominant 
symbol for that color.
In this variant, you can choose to play a double-
symboled card as though it were 2 needs. If you play 
it with the single symbol on top, it works in the usual way. 
If you play it with the double symbol on top, it gives the pet 
both depicted needs. It is more difficult to satisfy more needs, 
but it can also give you better scores in exhibitions or when 
matching a pet to a customer.
The way you lay your cards down is important. When 
you assign needs in phase 3, the card must be oriented to 
show whether you chose to use it as 1 need or 2. When you 
reveal cards in phase 4, be sure to flip the stack over, so that 
the upper symbols stay on top.
Note: This rule reduces the randomness of the game. If you 
have been preparing for a customer who really likes playful 
pets, you will be upset if you draw many yellow cards and get 
no 
 needs. With this rule, every card in the yellow deck 
can be used to give the pet a 
 need. You might have to 
meet some needs that you were not expecting, but at least you 
also get the needs that will score you points.
Note: Sometimes both needs on a card might be advantageous. 
If a customer likes aggressive and magical creatures, then a 
purple anger card turned upside down will count toward the 
match twice. 
More Foresight
Once you are experienced, you can make your game more 
strategic by revealing two exhibition tiles and two customer 
tiles at the beginning of the game.
(For an extreme variant, you can reveal all information at the 
start, but it is not always fun to plan so far ahead.)
Advanced Meat Stand Rule
As you know, pets in the upper half of the pet corral must 
go to a farm if they are not purchased. Normally when this 
happens, you add 1 extra meat token to the meat stand. But 
when Stareplant is sent to a farm, you should add 1 vegetable 
token to the meat stand instead. If Baby Golem is sent to a 
farm, add 1 gold token to the meat stand. If Ghosty is sent to a 
farm, do not add anything. As in the basic variant, there is no 
thematic reason for this rule.
Final Round Order
In the final round of a 4-player game, determine the starting 
player as described on page 16. But instead of playing 
clockwise, play in order from lowest score to highest. If two 
players have the same score, the one closer (in clockwise 
order) to the starting player goes first. (You can arrange the 
tied players’ minions to remind you of the order.)
END OF THE GAME
FULL VARIANT

Number of Components
Components are not intended to be limited. If you run out of 
any type of token, find a convenient substitute.
There should be enough Need Cards in each color. Don’t forget 
that whenever a deck runs out, you shuffle its discard pile to 
make a new deck. However, it might be theoretically possible for 
the deck and the discard pile to run out. If that ever happens, 
players should draw their cards in order (based on the Starting 
Player Token) and those players who can’t draw actual cards 
should be given substitutes that represent the dominant type of 
card in the deck. (Hunger for green cards, etc.)
APPENDIX
Dungeon Master
Looking for a vicious, magical beast to 
improve his image. (Recently, the word 
got out that he likes gardening and 
sudoku.)
Dungeon Granny
Just wants something to take care of. 
Don’t give her any of that new-fangled 
magic.
Dungeon mistress
Knows what’s in. Playful is in. Angry is in. 
Magical is in. Poop? So not in.
Dungeon Girl
Hoping to find a little critter as sweet and 
playful as she is.
Warlock
Looking for a familiar. Would prefer one 
that is metaphysically stable.
Porky Orky
Looking for a pet that shares his interests.
Farmer Troll
Could grow bumper crops if he had a 
little magic and a variety of fertilizers. 
Doesn’t need any reputation problems, 
so keep your suffering pets to yourself. 
Lich Lord
The Lich Lord loves diseases. But eating? 
That’s just sick.
Arena
In a hidden underground chamber, a 
chanting crowd prepares to witness this 
most ancient and primal of competitions. 
Creatures enter the arena and stare 
angrily at each other. The contest can end only one way: With 
the judges declaring one of them “meaner looking”.
Choose one of your pets. Score 2 points for each anger need 
assigned to it. Deduct 1 point for each disease need assigned to it.
Freestyle
What does your pet do well? Is it a 
big eater? Highly magical? Incredibly 
aggressive? Or is it just really good at 
pooping?
Choose one of your pets, and choose one need. Score 2 points 
each such need assigned to your pet. Deduct 2 points for each 
suffering token on your pet.
Moody Medley
So many moods. So little time.
Choose one of your pets. Score 2 points 
for each different type of need assigned 
to your pet. (A potion counts as its own 
type.) Deduct 2 points for each suffering token on your pet.
Eating Contest
Does punctuation matter? Ask the 
imps what happened when they 
advertised an imp eating-contest as 
an “imp-eating contest”. Now they just 
run these contests for their pets.
Choose one of your pets. Score 2 points for each hunger need 
assigned to it. Deduct 1 point for each disease need assigned to 
it. (Yes, it’s an “eating contest” but your pet scores the same 
points regardless of whether it actually ate food this round.)
Beauty Pageant
Imps have trouble judging this contest. 
Some prefer fangs. Some prefer horns. 
Others think a truly beautiful pet must 
have tentacles. Really, there is nothing 
you can do to train your pet for this exhibition. Just keep it 
clean and happy … and try to get your imps on the judging 
panel.
Choose one of your pets. Score 1 point for each card color 
assigned to it. (Potion Cards count as their own color.) Deduct 
1 point for each suffering or mutation token on the pet. Deduct 
1 point for each manure token in its cage.
Breeders’ Prize
It’s difficult to keep a breed genetically 
pure, especially if it emanates magic.
Score 2 points for each of your pets. 
Deduct 1 point for each mutation token 
on your pets.
Childrens’ Day
Bring in the kiddies to look at your 
playful pets! But clean up first. Sure, 
the kids might love to see some mutated 
monster in a manure-filled cage, but their 
parents will be doing the judging.
Score 2 points for each play need assigned to your pets. 
Deduct 2 points for each mutation token on your pets. Deduct 
1 point for each manure token in your cages (whether they 
have pets or not).
Magic Show
Watch me pull a rabbit out of this hat: 
Aaaaah! Direbunny!
Score 1 point for each magic need 
assigned to your pets. That’s all. Magic is 
just that simple.
		
Customers
		
Exhibitions

		
pets
Uni
Uni is a unicorn. At least, he says 
he is. He’s friendly, playful, magical, 
and he has a horn. So what if he 
doesn’t look like the posters in little 
girls’ bedrooms?
Ghosty
Baby Ghosty can be hard to train. 
But once you’ve taught him that 
passing through the cage walls is 
“a no-no”, you’ve got most of your 
problems licked. Then all you have 
to worry about is keeping him in our 
dimension.
Trollie
Trollie is not a vegetarian by nature. 
He’s a vegetarian by choice. He’s 
very playful and not aggressive at all 
… but sometimes he doesn’t realize 
his own strength.
Snakitty
What do snakes and cats have in 
common? They both love basking 
in the sun. For snakitty, this love has 
become a passion.
Lifffard
You have to fpend moft of your 
life wif fomefing tafty ftuffed in 
your mouf to fully underftand why 
Lifffard lookf fo happy all the time.
Birdie
When Mother Magic created Birdie, 
she made it fly. Then, because all 
creatures that fly have wings, she 
gave Birdie some. And so, when 
Birdie hovers over a flower sucking 
out its magical essence, sometimes it 
flaps its wings, to keep up the image.
Bubl
Bubl loves to spend time in its bowl. 
It leaves only when it needs to poop. 
Or when you knock on the bowl. 
Bubl really hates that. You’d be 
surprised how fast it can pursue you 
across the lawn.
Fiery Fairy
A being of pure fire and magic, this 
restless little creature is not easy to 
care for, but everyone loves fairies… 
What? Yes, of course it’s a fairy. 
Everyone loves fairies!
Snappy
Snappy will sit for hours at the edge 
of his cage wagging his tail, whining, 
and fixing passersby with his 
devoted gaze. He knows that sooner 
or later someone will reach through 
the bars to pet him.
Drago
Drago will make you re-think 
your opinion of dragons. As his 
friends will tell you, he is friendly, 
open-minded, and reliable. And 
his weakness for princess-shaped 
cookies? Nothing to worry about.
Wormie
It didn’t take long for Wormie 
to fall in love with our beautiful 
green meadows. He does like his 
vegetables pretty hot, though. His 
motto is “Spice must flow”.
Stareplant
It is not a very demanding plant. Just 
water it once a week and take it to 
a play every other day. And then, 
watch the magic happen.
Baby Golem
It might be easier to just build 
a full-grown golem, but the imps 
like to think inside the box. They 
raise all the other pets from cubs, 
so why not golems? They just have 
to visit his cage from time to time 
with a toolkit.
Dunguin
Dunguin has to eat anything it can 
get, as catching fish close to the 
south magic pole is very tricky. Half 
of the fish are invisible, another half 
defend themselves with fireballs, and 
the third half are actually tentacles 
of multidimensional monsters. Even 
math does not work well there!
Cthulie
The imps once tried to summon the 
“Ancient Nightmare of Unspeakable 
Horror”. Only once. When Cthulie 
appeared, it bounced around, licked 
their faces, and then pooped in 
a corner of the pentagram. The imps 
realized they would never be any 
good at unspeakable horror.
Fluffy
Yes, she has eight legs, but please 
don’t make assumptions about this 
sensitive creature’s species. If you 
shout “Eeeek! A Spider!”, frightened 
Fluffy will probably jump into your 
arms squeaking, “Where?!”
Direbunny
Perhaps his ancestors ate too 
many four-leafed clovers. A full-
grown Direbunny is strong enough 
to bring down a Stegobully and 
bouncy enough to catch fully laden 
swallows.
Stegobully
Stegobully is a quiet, bucolic grazer. 
Just don’t show him anything red. 
Or blue. Or yellow. In fact, to be safe, 
don’t show him any color. Stegobully 
doesn’t like being reminded that he 
is colorblind.

Books
Buy one of these fine tomes and you will be amazed at its effect 
on your employees’ skills. Your imps will improve with each 
turn of the page, as they gain the confidence to face any crisis. 
(Now if only they could read.)
 
 
 
Savage 
Feasts
Monsters 
I Have 
Battled
Fun with 
Food
Messing 
with Magic
Books allow you to have more cards in your hand. Each book 
offers 2 colors. When you get a book, you must choose one 
of the colors. Draw a Need Card of that color. From now on, 
you will always have 1 extra card in that color. Place the 
book in your Artifact Storage so that the chosen color is on top. 
Choose wisely. You cannot switch later.
Crystal Ball
This ball allows your imps to see into the 
future. They might not understand what they 
see, but they like the pretty colors. 
Before drawing new cards in phase 3, you may 
discard up to 3 cards and draw a replacement card 
for each one from the corresponding deck.
Long-Handled Shovel
Whoever came up with the idea of adding a long 
handle to a shovel must have been a genius.
During Showing Off, one available imp 
can remove up to 2 manure tokens, 
even from occupied cages. You may use this ability any 
time during phase 4. In particular, you can use it after dealing 
with poop needs but before dealing with disease needs. You may 
use the imp with the shovel to remove 1 manure token, 2 manure 
tokens at once, or 1 manure token at two different times during 
Showing Off.
Put the available imp in the center of your Pet Display Board 
to show that he has been given the job of shovel-wielder. When 
you remove a manure token, put it on the artifact tile to remind 
you not to exceed its capacity.
The long-handled shovel can be used every round. Clear the 
manure tokens off the artifact tile when the imps return home.
Imp Armor
Armor made from anti-magic foam: It’s safe. 
It’s comfortable. It makes you look like a cool 
robot! Buy one, get one free.
Each round, up to 2 of your imps can be 
protected by suits of armor. Those 2 imps will not be sent to 
the hospital when they catch an escaping pet. Alternatively, an 
armored imp can prevent a mutation by absorbing excess magic.
You can use the imp armor when evaluating needs in phase 4. 
Take an available imp and put it on top of the red or purple 
number on any cage. The imp acts as a +1 bonus. You may 
do this with 2 available imps per round. They can boost 
the same cage or different cages. They can boost the same type 
of number or different types. The armor prevents the imps 
from being sent to the hospital.
Employee of the Month
When the imps heard about this concept, they 
just loved it … but they do it a little differently. 
Each month, the imp who gets this trophy has 
to work as hard as two imps.
With this artifact, one of your imps counts twice when 
cleaning cages, entertaining pets, or catching them. 
Simply announce your Employee of the Month and the job he 
is doing. 
This can be combined with other artifacts: An Employee of the 
Month with a Long-Handled Shovel can remove up to 4 ma-
nure tokens in phase 4. An Employee of the Month in imp 
armor can give a cage a +2 bonus to one number. 
An imp with the Employee of the Month trophy can clean up to 
4 manure tokens in phase 5, but he cannot make two gold. 
Unfortunately, the fact that he works like two does not mean 
he gets paid like two.
Whip of Obedience
This whip is imbued with a mystical power: 
When you hold it, exhibition judges are 
reluctant to do things that make you angry.
With this whip, you get +½ to all exhibitions 
during the game. When counting your exhibition score, move 
your minion half a space more. So the whip breaks ties, and 
sometimes it also allows you to participate in an exhibition 
that you normally couldn’t enter (by increasing your exhibition 
score from 0 to ½).
The whip has no effect on the final scoring exhibitions. 
It counts as 1 point in the Business Acumen Exhibition, like any 
other artifact tile, but it does not give you a +½ bonus.
Magic Box
No one knows the age of this artifact, but it 
can’t be that old. The frozen trilobite you 
found inside tasted pretty good.
When you get this artifact, take 1 food token 
of any color from the bank and put it on the tile. This token can 
be used as food of either type, regardless of its color. (It’s 
a frozen piece of … something.) This food token does not age.
If your Magic Box is empty, you can re-use it: Before moving 
or discarding food tokens during the Aging Food step of phase 
6, you may put 1 of them into the empty box instead. The token 
becomes food of either type. To remind you of this ability, there is 
a special nook for your Magic Box right next to the Food Storage.
		
Grand Compendium of Rare and 
		
Valuable Artifacts
A game by 
Vlaada Chvátil
Illustration: David Cochard
Graphic design: Filip Murmak
Translation: Jason Holt
Lead tester: Petr Murmak
Testers: Kreten, Vítek, Filip, dilli, Marcela, Peťa, Lucka, Rumun, Monča, Yuyka, Bianco, Jéňa, Nino, Aleš, Zuzka, Vláďa, Vodka, 
Falco, Zeus, Miloš, Petr, David, Hanka, Michal, Tomáš, Juraj, Majo, Fanda, Glee, Paul, Phill, Pepoň, Indi, Jirka Bauma, and many others.
Thanks to: Brno Boardgame club and all the people behind the events where the game was playtested, including Pionek, IDEA 
2011, Gathering of Friends, GameCon, Festival Fantazie, Beskydy Winter Playing, Games Weekend, Donovaly, Tathry, and Czechgaming.
Special Thanks to: David Cochard for all those cute little imps and pets, Paul Grogan for enthusiasm and promotion, 
Marcela Chvátilová for support and technical solutions, our children for inspiration, Jason Holt for creative translation, Filip Murmak 
for the great layout of this book, Petr Murmak for countless demoing… and generally, all the people involved in the development. 
It was really fun this time.
© Czech Games Edition, October 2011, www.CzechGames.com