TM

Introduction
The first rays of the morning sun stretch across Terrinoth and break 
apart the shadows covering the fire-blackened rubble of what used 
to be a castle. Only the stumps of four great towers remain remotely 
intact, their stone blocks indelibly scored by the immense claws of a 
dragon. As the morning light hits the edifice, just as legends describe, 
the towers’ heavy stone doors lurch open by unseen mechanisms and 
magics, giving entry to the dungeon beneath the shattered ruin. Vast 
wealth awaits the adventurer strong enough to face the creatures that 
dwell within and clever enough to avoid the many pitfalls that await. 
But one must be quick, for when the sun sets, the doors close and 
there is no escaping the dragon’s terrible wrath.
Welcome to Dragonfire Dungeon.
Game Overview
In DungeonQuest, one to four players take on the roles of Heroes 
braving the terrors of Dragonfire Dungeon. Players explore the 
dungeon by moving their Heroes and placing Dungeon chambers on 
the game board. 
Over the course of the game, players draw Dungeon cards to discover 
what dangers lurk in the Dungeon chamber they have entered.
Any Hero fortunate enough to find the Treasure Chamber in the 
center of the dungeon may attempt to plunder its riches. However, 
Heroes must be careful not to wake Dragonlord Kalladra who sleeps 
upon the treasure hoard. Greedy Heroes who linger too long in the 
Treasure Chamber risk invoking Kalladra’s fearsome Dragon Rage! 
Once Heroes have looted their fill of treasure, they must escape the 
dungeon before the sun sets. It is better not to ask what happens to 
those Heroes who are still in the dungeon at nightfall…
Object of the Game
The object of DungeonQuest is to collect treasure and escape Dragon-
fire Dungeon before the sun sets. The player with the surviving Hero 
who has the greatest value in Loot wins the game.
The Treasure Chamber in the center of the dungeon holds the most 
valuable Loot, but lucky Heroes may also find gold as they explore 
the dungeon. To escape the dungeon, Heroes must find their way 
back to one of the Tower Rooms located at the corners of the 
dungeon.
Sometimes no Heroes survive the dungeon. In this case, all of the 
players have lost and Dragonlord Kalladra lies victorious on his trea-
sure hoard, awaiting the next group of adventurers.
Legend of 
Dragonfire 
Dungeon
Long ago, during the great Dragon Wars, the mighty Drag-
onlord Kalladra devised the most cunning and insidious 
trap ever constructed. Rather than engaging the nations of 
Terrinoth in open warfare as his brethren did, Kalladra 
counted on there being no greater danger to the rulers 
and heroes of the land than their own greed. So he built 
Dragonfire Dungeon.
Inside the impenetrable walls of his dungeon, Kalladra 
placed vast riches stolen from the wealthiest families of the 
realm. While the sun shines, anyone brave enough may 
simply walk in through one of the four entrances, gather as 
much treasure as he dares, and walk out again. If only it 
were that easy. Within the dungeon, such a fortune-seeker 
must overcome terrifying creatures and vicious traps. He 
must not let these challenges delay him, however, and he 
must not spend too long gathering the choicest loot, for 
when the sun sets, the doors shut by the same unknown 
force that opened them. Then, the fierce Kalladra awak-
ens to prowl his lair, destroying any helpless souls trapped 
within.
Once in a great while, some hardy adventurer manages to 
enter Dragonfire Dungeon and return again intact with a 
handful of treasures, but this doesn’t upset Kalladra in the 
least. That meager success simply draws more adventurers 
to the dungeon. Kalladra knows that once no one dares 
seek out the treasures of Dragonfire Dungeon, he will be 
free to conquer a world that has no heroes left to defend it.
Death or Glory
Dragonfire Dungeon is the most dangerous lair in 
Terrinoth, filled with monstrous creatures, fiend-
ish traps, and dead ends. Even if Heroes survive long 
enough to reach the Treasure Chamber, they must 
escape the dungeon before the sun sets.
For players’ first game of DungeonQuest, we recom-
mend using the “Death Can Wait” optional rule until 
they are more experienced with the game. If players feel 
especially brave (or foolhardy), they may increase the 
danger level of the dungeon by using other variants. See 
“Optional Rules” on page 24 for more details.

Components
DungeonQuest includes the following components:
This Rulebook
1 Game Board
6 Hero Figures
336 Cards, consisting of
6 Hero Cards
50 Dungeon Cards
8 Dragon Cards
32 Treasure Cards
15 Trap Cards
15 Door Cards
15 Crypt Cards
15 Corpse Cards
30 Search Cards
12 Rune Cards
40 Catacomb Cards
54 Combat Cards
44 Power Cards
117 Dungeon Chambers
1 Sun Token
1 First Player Token
6 Catacomb Entrance Markers
6 Travel Markers
41 Wound Tokens, consisting of
12 5-point Tokens
29 1-point Tokens
24 Determination Tokens
20 Monster Tokens, consisting of
4 Skeletons
4 Sorcerers
4 Trolls
4 Demons
4 Golems
4 Six-sided Dice
Bonus Hero Cards and Token, consisting of
Runebound Hero Cards
Descent: Journeys in the Dark Hero Cards
Runewars Hero Cards
1 Brightblaze Familiar Token
Component Overview
This section provides a brief description of every game component.
Game Board
The game board features Dragon-
fire Dungeon, with the Dragonlord’s 
Treasure Chamber located at the center, 
surrounded by the unexplored areas of 
the dungeon, and with a Tower Room 
in each corner of the dungeon. The 
game board also includes the sun track, 
which is used to indicate how much 
time remains before the sun sets and the 
Heroes become trapped in the dungeon.
DungeonQuest includes six 
Hero cards that correspond to 
the plastic Hero figures. These 
cards present vital information 
about the Heroes. 
Hero Figures
The six plastic figures, one corresponding to each Hero card, are used 
to mark the locations of the various Heroes on the game board.
Dungeon Cards
Over the course of the game, players 
draw Dungeon cards to discover what 
dangers await them in the Dungeon 
chamber they have entered. Some 
Dungeon cards are beneficial and 
reward Heroes with treasure. However, 
most Dungeon cards represent traps 
and creatures that pose serious risks to Heroes. 

Corpse Cards
Dragonfire Dungeon is the final 
resting place for many brave 
adventurers and treasure hunters. The 
remains of these unfortunate souls 
may hold treasure and items that aid 
Heroes in their quest, or may contain 
a nest of deadly scorpions! Corpse cards are used to determine what 
Heroes find on these dead bodies. 
Search Cards
Heroes may search most of the cham-
bers in Dragonfire Dungeon in hopes 
of discovering treasure or a secret 
door. Unfortunate Heroes may find 
fiendish traps or monstrous creatures, 
instead.
Rune Cards
Rune cards represent magical artifacts 
that are imbued with powerful spells. 
Each Rune card provides the Hero 
with a unique effect that may be 
the difference between surviving the 
dungeon or becoming its next victim.
Catacomb Cards
Beneath the dungeon itself lies a vast 
labyrinth of catacombs. During the 
course of the game, Heroes may discov-
er entrances to the catacombs or may 
fall into it as a result of an encounter. 
When Heroes explore the catacombs, 
they must draw from the Catacomb 
deck instead of the Dungeon deck.
Combat Cards
Heroes and Monsters resolve combat 
by playing Combat cards. These cards 
represent various ranged, melee, and 
magic attacks Heroes and Monsters use 
in combat. 
Power Cards
Each Hero and Monster has a set 
of four Power cards that are used 
during combat. These cards represent 
extraordinary attacks that the Hero 
or Monster can perform. Power cards 
are also used to determine whether 
Heroes can avoid combat entirely.
Dragon Cards
If a Hero survives long enough to 
reach the Treasure Chamber, the 
Hero can attempt to steal from 
the Dragonlord’s hoard. However, 
the Treasure Chamber holds more 
than just gold; it is guarded by the 
powerful Dragonlord Kalladra, himself. Although Kalladra sleeps 
during the day, he may awaken if a Hero is unlucky (or too greedy). 
Heroes must draw Dragon cards whenever they steal from the 
Treasure Chamber to see if Kalladra continues his slumber or if he 
awakens and torches the Hero with dragonfire!
Treasure Cards
Treasure cards represent the riches 
and artifacts that Dragonlord 
Kalladra has accumulated during 
centuries of raiding and pillaging. 
Heroes can acquire Treasure cards 
by reaching the Treasure Chamber 
space at the center of the dungeon. 
Most of the Treasure cards have a very high gold value and assure 
victory if the Hero manages to escape the dungeon (unless another 
Hero also manages to rob the Treasure Chamber, of course!).
Trap Cards
Some Dungeon chambers or card 
instructions require Heroes to draw 
Trap cards. Most Trap cards repre-
sent insidious devices for dealing 
death, including trapdoors, poison-
ous gases, and crossfire traps.
Door Cards
Some Dungeon chambers feature 
passages that contain a closed door. 
In order to move through such a 
passage, a Hero must draw Door 
cards until he draws one that indi-
cates he has successfully opened the 
door.
Crypt Cards
Constructs and other creatures are 
not the only minions that Drag-
onlord Kalladra commands. Fallen 
knights and evil sorcerers also serve 
Kalladra as their master. When 
these servants are killed, they are 
buried in the crypts of Dragonfire Dungeon as a mark of honor. They 
are often buried with treasure, but some servants do not rest easy. 

Dungeon Chambers
Dungeon chambers represent the 
vast network of corridors and 
rooms that make up Dragonfire 
Dungeon. When Heroes move 
through the dungeon and explore 
a space that does not already 
contain a chamber, they must 
draw a Dungeon chamber to see 
what they encounter.
Sun Token
The sun token is used on the sun track to measure 
the passage of time while the Heroes are in the 
dungeon. If Heroes do not exit the dungeon 
before night falls, the dungeon becomes the final 
resting place for any Heroes who remain inside.
First Player Token
The First Player token indi-
cates which player begins the 
game and acts as a reminder to 
advance the sun token along the 
sun track at the start of each of 
that player’s turns.
Catacomb 
Entrance Markers
Heroes may discover staircases 
that lead into the dark catacombs 
beneath the dungeon. Catacomb 
entrance markers are used to mark 
these locations.
Travel Markers
When a Hero enters the catacombs, he 
uses his travel marker to indicate his 
position on the game board instead of 
his plastic Hero figure. Each Hero has 
his own travel marker.
Wound Tokens
Dragonfire Dungeon is full of traps and 
deadly denizens that await the unwary 
adventurer. As Heroes delve deeper into 
the dungeon and engage in combats, they 
may suffer damage, which is tracked with 
wound tokens.
Determination Tokens
When a Hero fails an attribute test, he gains 
a determination token, which increases his 
chances of succeeding on his next attempt 
for that encounter.
If a Hero encounters a Monster and does not 
kill it, the Monster lurks in the chamber for 
the next Hero to come along. The presence of 
the Monster is marked with a monster token. 
Monster tokens are also used to determine the 
Monster’s life value.
Six-sided Dice
These four dice are used for resolving 
attribute tests and determining results 
from instructions on cards.
6 Runebound Hero Cards
6 Runewars Hero Cards
Bonus Heroes
 In addition to the six Hero cards that are used in 
DungeonQuest, this game also includes additional 
components so the Heroes can be used in other games 
set in the Runebound universe. The included Hero 
cards for Runebound, Descent: Journeys in the Dark, and 
Runewars and the Brightblaze familiar token are not 
used during a game of DungeonQuest.
6 Descent: Journeys in the Dark 
1 Brightblaze 
Familiar Token

Game Setup
Before playing DungeonQuest for the first time, carefully punch the 
cardboard pieces out of their frames. Then follow the steps below to 
set up the game.
Place Game Board: 
Unfold the game board and place it in the 
center of the play area. 
Set Up Dungeon Chambers:
 Place all of the Dungeon chambers 
facedown on the playing surface near the game board (or if play-
ers prefer, in the box lid) and randomize them.
Set Up Decks: 
Separate the cards into their decks (Dungeon, 
Crypt, Corpse, Door, Search, Trap, Treasure, and Catacomb). 
Shuffle each deck and place it, facedown, on its indicated space 
on the board. Shuffle the Combat and Dragon decks and place 
them near the board where all players can reach them. Separate 
the Power cards for each of the five Monsters into decks and place 
each deck near the board.
Set Up Sun Track: 
Place the sun token on the first space of the 
sun track (the first space with the sun icon).
Set Up Monster Pool: 
5.	
Place all monster tokens facedown so that 
their numbers are hidden and randomize them. This forms a pool 
of monster tokens.
Place Tokens: 
6.	
Place all wound, catacomb entrance, and determi-
nation tokens in separate piles where all players can reach them.
Choose Heroes: 
7.	
Each player randomly chooses a Hero card to 
represent the Hero he will play in the game. Alternatively, players 
may agree amongst themselves which Heroes they will play and 
select the Hero cards for those Heroes. Each player then takes 
the plastic figure, travel marker, and Power cards that correspond 
to his Hero. Cards and figures belonging to unused Heroes are 
placed back in the box, as they are not used this game.
Determine First Player:
8.	
 Each player rolls one die. The player 
who rolls highest (reroll in the event of a tie) becomes the First 
Player and receives the First Player token.
Draw Rune Cards: 
9.	
Shuffle the Rune deck. Then have each player 
draw one Rune card at random and place it faceup next to his 
Hero card. Unused Rune cards are returned to the box, as they are 
not used this game.
Place Heroes: 
10.	
The First Player places his plastic Hero figure in 
one of the four Tower Rooms at the corners of the dungeon. The 
player on his left does the same, and so on until each player has 
placed his Hero figure on the game board. Heroes may not start 
the game in the same Tower Room.
Start the Game: 
11.	
After these steps have been carried out, the game 
is ready to begin!
Setup Example

During a game of DungeonQuest, each player plays the role of a 
courageous Hero. It is through a player’s Hero that he interacts with 
encounters, explores the dungeon, and gains treasure. Each player’s 
Hero card lists his Hero’s attributes and special abilities.
Playing the Game
DungeonQuest is played over a series of turns, beginning with the 
First Player and then continuing to the left. Each player completes his 
Hero’s entire turn before the next Hero takes a turn. In this way, play 
continues clockwise around the table until the game ends.
When a Hero takes his turn, he must choose one of the following 
actions and resolve its consequences:
Move into an adjacent space
OR
Search the chamber he is in
Dungeon Chamber 
Breakdown
Wall: Any side of a Dungeon chamber that is 
blocked by a wall is impassible; Heroes cannot enter 
or leave a chamber through a side blocked by a wall.
Passage: Any side of a Dungeon chamber that 
is not blocked by a wall is considered a passage. 
Heroes may enter or leave a chamber using any of 
its passages.
Entry Arrow: When Heroes draw new Dungeon 
chambers, the new chamber must be placed so that 
the entry arrow is adjacent to the chamber the Hero 
moved from. The color of an entry arrow also helps 
identify the specific type of Dungeon chamber. 
Door: Some passages have a door. Heroes must 
first open the door before they can enter or leave 
the chamber through that passage (see “Moving 
Through a Door” on page 8).
Search Icon: Some chambers feature a search icon. 
Heroes may search the chamber for secret doors or 
hidden treasures instead of moving (see “Searching” 
on page 10).
Hero Card 
Breakdown
Life Value: A Hero’s life value represents his 
durability. As Heroes explore the dungeon and 
fight monsters, the Heroes may become injured 
and suffer wounds. If a Hero has a total number of 
wounds equal to or more than his life value, he is 
killed.
Strength: Strength represents a Hero’s might and 
stamina.
Agility: Agility represents a Hero’s speed and ability 
to react quickly to dangerous situations.
Armor: Armor represents a Hero’s ability to prevent 
or ignore wounds.
Luck: Luck represents a Hero’s good fortune. Luck 
may also represent blessings from a deity that the 
Hero worships. 
Special Ability: Each Hero has one or more special 
abilities that he may use during the game.
Flavor Text: Flavor text gives the Heroes more 
personality, but has no game effect.

Moving
If a Hero chooses to move, he must move his figure through a passage 
to an adjacent space; diagonal movement is never allowed. Heroes 
cannot move into a Dungeon chamber occupied by another Hero 
figure, except for the Treasure Chamber in the center of the dungeon 
(see “Looting the Treasure Chamber” on page 13).
After a Hero moves, he must encounter the space he entered (see 
“Encountering Dungeon Chambers” on page 10).
Moving into a Dungeon Chamber
When a Hero moves into a space that already contains a Dungeon 
chamber, he simply encounters that chamber (see “Encounter-
ing Dungeon Chambers” on page 10). If a Hero enters a Dungeon 
chamber that contains a monster token, the Hero encounters the 
Monster first. If the Hero kills the Monster, he must then encounter 
the chamber.
Moving into an Unexplored Space
Every space on the board that does not contain a Dungeon cham-
ber (except Tower Rooms and the Treasure Chamber) is considered 
unexplored. 
When a Hero moves into an unexplored space, he must randomly 
draw a Dungeon chamber from the stockpile and place it faceup in 
the space. The chamber must be placed so that the entry arrow is adja-
cent to the chamber the Hero moved from. In other words, Heroes “step 
over” entry arrows to enter the chamber.
Moving Through a Door
Some passages have doors that must be opened before 
Heroes can move through them. Many doors can be 
opened right away, but others are jammed or trapped. 
Each time a Hero attempts to move through a door, 
he must first draw a Door card and follow its instruc-
tions. If the Hero draws a Door card with the title 
“Door Opens,” he continues his movement as normal. 
If the Hero draws a card with the title “Door Jammed” 
or “Hidden Trap,” he must remain in the chamber. 
However, the Hero may try the door again next turn or may leave by 
a different passage. 
If a Hero attempts to move through a door that is adjacent to another 
door, he only draws one Door card to determine his success. 
Moving Through a Portcullis
If a Hero attempts to move through a portcullis, he must 
first make a successful Strength test (see “Attribute Tests” 
on page 23). If the Hero succeeds, he continues his 
movement as normal. If the Hero fails, his turn ends but 
he may try again next turn if he wishes.
If a Hero attempts to move through a portcullis that 
is adjacent to another portcullis, he only makes one 
Strength test to determine his success. 
Moving Through a Door and 
Portcullis
If a Hero attempts to move through a door and a portcullis, he must 
resolve each one in order, starting with the chamber he currently 
occupies.
Example of Moving
A
B
D
C
Lindel may only move to spaces C or D. He cannot 
move to space A or B because there are walls.

Dead Ends
If all of a chamber’s passages except the one the Hero entered from 
run into walls (either the wall surrounding the dungeon or walls on 
Dungeon chambers), the Hero has reached a dead end. If a Hero 
reaches a dead end, he can only leave the chamber by moving to the 
chamber he entered from (if possible) or by successfully searching 
for a secret door or a passage to the catacombs (see “Searching” 
on page 10).
Particularly unfortunate Heroes may become trapped in a dead end, 
usually as the result of a Rotating Room (see “Chamber Descriptions” 
on pages 30–31). If a Hero does not succeed in finding a secret door 
or passage to the catacombs that allows him to leave the chamber 
after searching twice, he is killed (see “Hero Deaths” on page 23).
Example of a Dead End
Lindel moves into an unexplored space. He must draw 
a new Dungeon chamber and place it on the space.
The Dungeon chamber is a Rotating Room. Lindel 
enters the Rotating Room and must turn the tile 180 
degrees. All of Lindel’s passages are blocked by a wall, 
trapping him in a dead end. Lindel must search for a 
secret door or passage to the catacombs in order to leave 
the Rotating Room.
Example of Moving 
Through a Door 
and Portcullis
In order to move into the adjacent chamber, Hugo 
must open the door and lift the portcullis. The door is 
in Hugo’s current chamber, so he must open it before 
proceeding to the portcullis.
Hugo draws a card from the Door deck and encounters 
a “Hidden Trap” card. After the trap is resolved, Hugo’s 
turn ends without proceeding to the portcullis. 
On Hugo’s next turn, he attempts to move into the 
adjacent chamber again. He must first draw another 
card from the Door deck. This time he draws a “Door 
Opens” card and can now try to lift the portcullis. 
Hugo succeeds at testing his Strength and finally moves 
into the adjacent chamber. 
If Hugo failed the Strength test for the portcullis and 
wanted to move into the chamber again next turn, he 
would have to start the process again by drawing a new 
Door card.

Searching
Instead of moving to an adjacent space, a Hero may search the 
Dungeon chamber he is in for secret doors, passages to the cata-
combs, or even hidden treasures. To search a chamber, the Hero 
simply draws the top card from the Search deck and follows its 
instructions (see “Encountering Cards” below).
A Hero may search a chamber twice on successive turns if he wishes. 
After a Hero has searched two successive turns, he must move on the 
next turn. He cannot search again until he has moved. If the Hero 
returns to the same chamber later, he may search it again, for up to 
two successive turns.
Heroes may only search chambers that feature a 
search icon and only if there are no monster tokens 
in the chamber.
Once a Hero has moved or searched, the Hero’s 
turn ends. Heroes cannot move and search in the 
same turn. Heroes that search do not encounter the 
chamber.
Encounters
Regardless of whether a Hero moves or searches during his turn, he 
is bound to encounter items or creatures of interest in the dungeon. 
Dungeon chambers, cards, and monsters can all be encountered. 
After a Hero completes any instructions on the card or chamber, the 
encounter is considered resolved. Once all the Hero’s encounters have 
been resolved for his turn, his turn ends.
Encountering Dungeon 
Chambers
Dungeon chambers represent the explored areas of Dragonfire 
Dungeon. Most chambers have special instructions that are triggered 
whenever Heroes move into them (see “Chamber Descriptions” on 
pages 30–31). 
Some Dungeon chambers (and some card instructions, see “Encoun-
tering Cards” below) have lasting effects that require Heroes to 
remain in the same chamber instead of moving. These effects always 
supersede any normal rules for movement.
If a Hero enters a Dungeon chamber with a monster token in it, he 
must encounter the Monster before of encountering the Dungeon 
chamber (see “Encountering Monsters” on page 11).
Encountering Cards
Some Dungeon chambers require Heroes to draw cards from certain 
decks. These card encounters could then instruct a Hero to draw a 
card from a different deck. 
Example: A Hero enters a Dungeon Room, which instructs him to draw a 
card from the Dungeon deck. The Dungeon card is a “Dead Adventurer,” 
which gives the Hero the opportunity to draw a card from the Corpse 
deck.
Whenever Heroes are instructed to draw cards, they must take the 
top card of the appropriate deck. After resolving all instructions on 
the card, the card is usually discarded to a discard pile next to its 
deck. However, some cards instruct Heroes to keep the card and 
possibly encounter it again next turn. 
Card Types
Most cards have a card type listed below the card’s title. Card types 
are not tied to particular decks. For example, a Hero may encounter 
a Trap from the Search or Dungeon decks as well as from the Trap 
deck. The different cards types are listed below. 
Event
Cards with the Event card type represent locations or hazards that 
Heroes may encounter. The Event card type does not have any special 
rules associated with it and is only important when certain special 
abilities and effects refer to it.
Loot
Cards with the Loot card type represent valuables that Heroes acquire 
as they explore the dungeon. Whenever a Hero encounters a card 
with the Loot card type, he keeps the card and places it faceup next 
to his Hero card so that other players know the amount and value of 
the Hero’s Loot.
Monster
Dragonfire Dungeon is filled with powerful denizens that skulk in 
the darkness, waiting to ambush careless adventurers. Cards with the 
Monster card type represent creatures in the dungeon that lead to 
combat (see “Encountering Monsters” on page 11). Any effect that 
refers to the Monster card type also applies to monster tokens.
Threat
Cards with the Threat card type represent creatures that can harm 
or inconvenience Heroes. Most Threats require Heroes to make a 
test or simply wound Heroes and then scurry off to the discard pile. 
However, some Threats may turn into Monsters and lead to combat. 
The Threat card type does not have any special rules associated with 
it and is only important when certain special abilities and effects refer 
to it.
Trap
Cards with the Trap card type represent traps that the Hero sets 
off or runs into. The Trap card type does not have any special rules 
associated with it and is only important when certain special abilities 
and effects refer to it.
Search Icon

Encountering Monsters
Encounters with a Skeleton, Sorcerer, Troll, Golem, or Demon may 
lead to combat unless the Hero manages to escape. Some Threat 
cards such as “Old Bones” and “Deep Elf” may turn into Monsters 
and lead to combat. Each Monster has a set of four Power cards 
and four monster tokens specific to that monster. Encounters with 
Monsters are resolved using the following steps:
Determine Monster Player
Draw Monster Token
Escape or Attack
1. Determine Monster Player
Whenever a player’s Hero encounters a Monster, the player to his left 
takes on the role of the Monster for that encounter. That monster 
player then takes the four Power cards that feature the Monster’s 
portrait, shuffles them, and places the stack facedown in front of 
himself. 
2. Draw Monster Token 
The monster player draws a monster token with that Monster’s 
portrait at random from the pool and places it facedown in front of 
himself. The number on this monster token is the Monster’s life value 
(see “End of Combat” on page 17). If a monster token is not avail-
able in the pool, the monster player takes one from the board instead. 
Trolls are brutish creatures possessing 
incredible strength and size. They are 
also extremely clumsy, having difficulty 
controlling their vast power.
Demons wield titanic magics and are 
wreathed in a searing sheet of flames. 
A demon’s very presence can overcome 
all but the most courageous hero with 
terror and dread. 
Demon
Troll
These undead horrors are armed with 
bows that fire shards of bone. Their 
arrows are often poisoned or imbued 
with dark magic.
Skeleton
These dark wizards have turned their 
backs on their fellow men and offered 
their powerful magic in service to evil 
masters. Some sorcerers have forged 
dark pacts with infernal powers in 
exchange for near immortality.
Sorcerer
Golem
Golems are magically animated and 
are constructed from stone and iron. 
Their skin is nearly impenetrable 
and can deflect weapons that would 
normally cleave through armor with 
ease.
Legendary Monsters
Kalladra employs many dangerous servants within Dragonfire Dungeon, and they do the Dragonlord’s 
bidding without question. These deadly creatures will attack anything unlucky enough to encounter them.

3. Escape or Attack
The Hero must then decide if he wants to escape or attack. A Hero 
may not escape if the chamber he entered has a portcullis or if he 
entered the chamber by special movement such as a “Secret Passage” 
from the Search deck. (Whether or not the chamber he exited has a 
portcullis is irrelevant.)
Escape
If the Hero chooses to try to escape, both the Hero and the monster 
player randomly draw one card from their stack of Power cards and 
compare the escape values (the white number in the bottom left 
corner) of the Power cards.
If the Hero’s escape value is less than the Monster’s escape value, 
the Hero fails to escape and must face the Monster in combat (see 
“Combat” on page 15). In addition, the Hero suffers a number of 
wounds (see “Hero Deaths” on page 23) equal to the Monster’s 
damage value (the black number in the bottom left corner of the 
monster’s Power card).
If the Hero’s escape value is equal to or greater than the Monster’s 
escape value, the Hero successfully escapes. The monster player then 
places his monster token facedown in the Dungeon chamber where 
the Monster was encountered. The Monster remains there until 
killed. The Monster’s card, if there is one, is discarded and all Power 
cards are returned to their respective decks. Play then passes to the 
next Hero. 
When a Hero successfully escapes, he must leave the Dungeon 
chamber where he encountered the Monster and return to the 
Dungeon chamber he entered from. The Hero does not encoun-
ter the Dungeon chamber he returns to and his turn immediately 
ends. However, on the Hero’s next turn, he must then encounter the 
chamber he escaped to as if he just entered it. If the Hero entered the 
Dungeon chamber through a door, he does not have to draw another 
Door card to escape.
Attack
If the Hero chooses to attack or if he attempts to escape and fails, 
combat begins (see “Combat” on page 15).
Combat and Power 
Card Breakdown
Combat and Power cards represent the attacks that 
Heroes and monsters make during combat. Power cards 
are similar to Combat cards but feature special abilities 
and escape values.
Attack Value: Each card has a numeric value listed 
in the upper left corner of the card. This value 
represents the relative strength of the attack and is 
used to determine the winner of the combat round.
Attack Type: The icon at the top of the card and 
the color of the card indicate the card’s attack type 
(blue represents ranged attacks, red represents melee 
attacks, and yellow represents magic attacks).
Counterattack Icon: The icon at the upper right 
corner of the card lists which attack type the card 
can be used to make a counterattack against. If a 
card does not have a counterattack icon, it does not 
allow the Hero or Monster playing it to make a 
counterattack. 
Card Effects: Some Power cards have special effects 
in addition to their regular attack values.
Escape Value: These values only appear on Power 
cards and are used when Heroes attempt to escape 
Monsters instead of attacking them.
Damage Value (on Monsters’ Power Cards only): 
When Heroes attempt to escape and fail, they suffer 
this number of wounds.
Portrait: The portrait shows which Hero or 
Monster the Power card belongs to. Each Hero and 
Monster has a set of four unique Power cards.
Combat Card
Power Card

Looting the Treasure 
Chamber
At the center of the dungeon is Dragonlord Kalladra’s Treasure 
Chamber, which is guarded by Kalladra himself. Fortunately, Kalladra 
sleeps during the day, unless awoken by a clumsy, unlucky Hero. 
Heroes can move into the Treasure Chamber as if it were a Dungeon 
chamber. Despite the fact that the Treasure Chamber occupies two 
spaces of the dungeon, the Treasure Chamber is treated as a single 
space.
When a Hero enters the Treasure Chamber, he randomly draws one 
Dragon card from the Dragon deck. 
If the Dragon card drawn is “Sleeping,” all is well. 
The Hero follows the instruction on the Dragon 
card to draw two Treasure cards, which may include 
some of the most valuable artifacts in Dragonfire 
Dungeon, and the Hero’s turn ends. The Hero has 
not disturbed the sleeping Kalladra with his pilfer-
ing. He leaves that Dragon card faceup on the table. 
He does not return it to the Dragon deck. On the 
Hero’s next turn, he must either move out of the 
Treasure Chamber by any passage or stay there and 
draw another Dragon card.
If the Dragon card drawn is “Dragon Rage,” the 
Hero is in big trouble! His mishandling of the 
dragon’s hoard has woken Kalladra, who promptly 
unleashes his fiery breath upon the Hero. The Hero 
must discard all of his Treasure cards and then roll 
two dice and suffer that many wounds from the 
dragon’s scorching breath. If this does not kill the 
Hero, he must retreat: the Hero moves his figure 
out of the Treasure Chamber through the passage of 
his choice to an adjacent space, drawing a Dungeon 
chamber if the space is unexplored, and then his turn immediately 
ends. Retreating Heroes may not move through a door or portcullis. 
A Hero retreating in this manner does not encounter that Dungeon 
chamber, regardless of whether the chamber was previously explored 
or not. However, on the Hero’s next turn, he must encounter the 
chamber as if he just entered it.
Heroes may remain in Kalladra’s Treasure Chamber until they decide 
to leave the Treasure Chamber or they wake the Dragonlord. Because 
Dragon cards are not returned to the Dragon deck while looting 
continues, the longer Heroes stay in the Treasure Chamber, the 
greater the chance of waking the Dragonlord!
Once they have looted as much as they dare, Heroes may leave the 
Treasure Chamber during their turn, treating it as a normal move. 
Heroes do not draw any Dragon cards on the turn they leave the 
Treasure Chamber.
Example of an Escape
Challara encounters a Skeleton and tries to escape 
instead of attacking the monster. Challara randomly 
draws one of her Power cards and reveals an escape 
value of 3. 
The monster player randomly draws one Skeleton 
Power card and reveals an escape value of 2. The 
Skeleton’s escape value is lower, so Challara successfully 
escapes. A Skeleton token is placed in the chamber, and 
Challara returns to the chamber she entered from.
If the Skeleton’s escape value were higher, Challara 
would have suffered 1 wound from the Skeleton’s 
damage value and then have to face the monster in 
combat.
Hero Escape Value
Monster Escape Value
Damage Value

Two or More Heroes in the 
Treasure Chamber
The Treasure Chamber is the only space in the dungeon that a Hero 
can move into if it is already occupied by another Hero. The more 
Heroes there drawing cards from the Dragon deck, the more likely 
the dragon will wake up!
When Kalladra wakes up, all Heroes in the Treasure Chamber 
immediately suffer the consequences of “Dragon Rage” as described 
before, starting with the player who drew the “Dragon Rage” card 
and proceeding clockwise around the table to the other players with 
Heroes in the Treasure Chamber. After this event has been dealt with, 
the game carries on with the normal turn order. 
Shuffling the Dragon Cards
If there are no Heroes in the Treasure Chamber, all of the drawn 
Dragon cards are shuffled back into the Dragon deck, facedown. 
However, if there are two or more Heroes in the Treasure Chamber, 
none of the Dragon cards are shuffled back into the deck until the 
last Hero leaves the Treasure Chamber and it is empty. On a later 
turn, if they feel they have time to spare, Heroes can return to the 
Treasure Chamber to press their luck anew with the replenished and 
shuffled Dragon deck.
Running out of Time
While the Tower Rooms of Dragonfire Dungeon provide exits from 
the dungeon during the day, they magically close and seal when night 
falls. Any Hero who lingers too long in his explorations is locked in 
the dungeon overnight, and night is when Kalladra fully awakes and 
stalks about his dungeon for visitors. No mere momentary flash of 
fire awaits Heroes trapped with Kalladra in the night; at night, he 
makes sure to finish his meal.
The passing of time in DungeonQuest is measured using a sun token 
and the board’s sun track. The sun token’s location on the sun track 
indicates the amount of time Heroes have remaining before the game 
ends. At the start of the game, the sun token is placed at the start 
of the sun track, and it advances along the sun track as the game 
progresses. When the sun token reaches the last few spaces on the sun 
track, night has fallen and the Tower Rooms’ heavy stone doors are 
about to close, spelling doom to any Heroes still in the dungeon.
When the First Player takes his turn, before he performs any actions, 
he advances the sun token one space on the sun track. 
Important: The sun token does not advance on the very first turn of 
the game. 
Once the sun token reaches a space marked with a number, the 
First Player must roll one die to see if the game ends. If the number 
rolled is higher than the number or range of numbers listed on the 
space, the Tower Rooms’ doors remain open, and it is still possible 
for Heroes to exit the dungeon. If the number rolled matches the 
number or falls within the range of numbers listed on the space, the 
giant stone doors of every Tower Room close and the game immedi-
ately ends. At that moment, any Heroes still inside the dungeon are 
killed (see “Winning the Game” on page 15).
Even if the sun token reaches the last space on the sun track, the 
game can still continue. At that point, the First Player no longer 
advances the sun token, but he still rolls a die before each of his turns 
to see if the game ends. As long he continues to roll higher than the 
range of numbers on the space, the game does not end.
Even if the First Player is eliminated or is forced to lose his turn, he 
still advances the sun token and may need to roll for game end at the 
start of his turn as normal.
Example of Running 
out of Time
At the start of the First Player’s turn, he moves the sun 
token forward one space, onto the space with a “1–2” 
on it. The player then rolls one die to see if the game 
ends. He rolls a “3” result, which is higher than the 
range of numbers on the space, so the First Player then 
takes the rest of his turn as normal.
At the start of the First Player’s next turn, he moves 
the sun token forward one space, onto the space with a 
“1–3” on it. Then, he rolls the die and gets a “3” result, 
which is not greater than the range of numbers listed 
on the space. Consequently, the game immediately 
ends, and any Heroes who have not exited the dungeon 
are killed.

Exiting the Dungeon
Eventually, treasures in hand, Heroes will 
want to exit Dragonfire Dungeon. The only 
exits from the dungeon are in the Tower 
Rooms. A Hero entering a Tower Room 
may immediately choose to move out of the 
dungeon from it if he wishes. If he chooses 
not to do so, he immediately moves out of 
the Tower Room through one of its passages 
and encounters the Dungeon chamber he 
enters. A Hero does not have to exit the 
dungeon through the same Tower Room 
that he started the game in; any Tower Room can be used to exit the 
dungeon. Heroes are never obligated to exit the dungeon if they enter 
a Tower Room. They are welcome to stay as long as they like…
When Heroes exit the dungeon, they must remove their figure from 
the board and can no longer explore the dungeon. Once a Hero has 
exited, he cannot enter the dungeon again. The Hero must now wait 
until the game ends before the victor is determined (see “Winning 
the Game” in the next column).
It is important to note that a Hero may not exit the dungeon unless 
he possesses at least one Loot card (no Hero would leave the dungeon 
empty-handed; otherwise, what was the point?). However, any Loot 
card will do; it does not even need to have a gold value to fulfill this 
requirement.
If the First Player exits the dungeon, he must still advance the sun 
token at the start of his turns.
Winning the Game
The game ends when every Hero has either successfully left the 
dungeon or has been killed. 
Once the game has ended, each Hero who exited the dungeon tallies 
up the total value of his Loot cards. Most Loot cards are marked with 
a certain value in gold. Loot cards without a gold value are worth zero 
gold (unless otherwise indicated by the Loot card). The player whose 
Hero has exited the dungeon with the highest total value in gold is 
the winner of the game. 
Any effects that are resolved at the end of the game, such as the 
instructions on the “Treasure Chest” card for example, must be 
resolved before gold values are tallied. The First Player resolves all of 
his end-of-game effects, and then the player to his left resolves his 
effects, and so on.
If two or more surviving Heroes are tied for the highest gold total, 
the tied player with the single Loot card worth the highest gold value 
wins the game. If it is still a tie, the tied player with the most Loot 
cards wins the game. If it is still a tie, then all tied players win the 
game.
If nobody manages to escape the dungeon, all Heroes lose and 
Dragonlord Kalladra is the winner! He loves it when a plan comes 
together.
Sometimes a Hero will win the game simply by being the only Hero 
to escape the dungeon alive, even if he has only a few paltry trinkets 
to show for it. In other games, a Hero will escape the dungeon with 
an armful of fabulous treasures for a really big win. Players can keep 
track of the total gold value of Loot each player has managed to 
collect and exit the dungeon with in all the games they have played to 
see who is the champion DungeonQuest player in their group.
Combat
When Heroes explore the dungeon, they may discover Monsters 
lurking in the darkness. While some Monsters can be escaped from, 
all encounters with Monsters have the potential to result in combat. 
If a Hero runs into a Monster and does not escape from it, the 
encounter must be resolved through combat. Each combat always 
involves a single Hero against a single Monster. 
Combat is resolved over a number of rounds until either the 
Monster or the Hero is killed (see “End of Combat” on page 17). A 
round consists of each player drawing Combat cards into his hand, 
choosing one card from his hand, and placing it facedown in front of 
himself. The cards are then simultaneously turned faceup and damage 
is determined. 
Combat cards represent the attacks Heroes and Monsters make 
during the battle. These attacks can be melee (red), ranged (blue), or 
magic (yellow) attacks. Some attacks are particularly effective against 
one of the other types of attacks and may enable a counterattack (see 
the “Resolve Counterattack” step for more information). During 
combat, the term “Combat cards” also includes Power cards. While 
Power cards are in a player’s hand or played during a combat round, 
they are considered Combat cards for the purposes of all rules and 
special abilities regarding combat.
Tower Room

Combat Steps
Each combat round is divided into four steps, which must be 
performed in order every round. These steps are repeated until either 
the Hero or the Monster is killed. The steps of combat are as follows:
1. Draw Combat Cards
Each round, both the Hero and monster player draw cards from the 
Combat deck, without showing them to their opponent, until they 
have a hand of five cards. There is only one Combat deck, so both 
players draw Combat cards from the same source.
During the very first combat round, the Hero and monster player 
randomly draw and add one of their Power cards to their hands 
before they fill their hands to a total of five cards. Any Power cards 
used during an escape attempt may not be drawn. Power cards 
provide players with an additional special effect during combat, and 
since each Hero and Monster has his own set of Power cards, the 
Power cards provide individual flavor to each Hero and Monster.
2. Reveal Combat Cards
Each player chooses one card from his hand (Power or Combat), 
placing it facedown in front of himself. After both players have 
chosen a card, the players simultaneously turn the cards faceup. If 
either of the cards played are Power cards, any special effects from 
those Power cards are now resolved, starting with the Hero and 
followed by the Monster.
3. Resolve Counterattack
If the attack value of a player’s Combat card is equal to or lower than 
his opponent’s attack value and his card has a counterattack icon 
matching his opponent’s attack type, the player may make a coun-
terattack. 
To make a counterattack, the player simply plays cards from his hand 
with a counterattack icon that matches his opponent’s attack type 
and then adds his cards’ attack values together to determine his total 
score. When a player makes a counterattack, he may play multiple 
cards (one at a time) to increase his total attack value. However, he 
must stop playing cards once his total attack value exceeds his oppo-
nent’s attack value.
Only one counterattack may be made in a round; a player may not 
counterattack against a counterattack.
4. Assign Damage
The player with the highest total attack value in the round is the 
winner of that round. The winner takes all the Combat cards he 
played during the round and places them in the loser’s damage stack. 
A player’s damage stack is located in front of him and indicates the 
amount of damage he has suffered in the combat. Each card in the 
damage stack represents one wound inflicted on him. Each player 
must spread out the cards in his damage stack so that both players 
can see the number of cards in the stack. 
The loser of that round places his Combat card in the combat stack, 
which represents the maneuvering of the combatants to set up a more 
powerful strike. Each new Combat card placed in the combat stack is 
placed so that the attack types of all cards are clearly visible. Players 
must be able to see the numbers and attack types of all cards in the 
combat stack.
After resolving this step, if neither the Hero nor Monster has been 
killed, players return to step 1: “Draw Combat Cards.”
Example Combat and 
Damage Stacks
After a few combat rounds, both the skeleton and 
Lindel have inflicted damage on their opponent. The 
illustration below is an example of how cards should be 
arranged to form the Hero’s and Monster’s individual 
damage stacks as well as the shared combat stack.

Deathblow
If the winner of a round plays a card matching the attack type of 
any card(s) of the combat stack, this results in a deathblow. When 
a deathblow occurs, the winner of the round takes all of the cards in 
the combat stack with the same attack type as the attack type of the 
card he played and adds them to his opponent’s damage stack. Thus, 
in an extended combat, a deathblow could inflict several points of 
damage to the opponent. Deathblows are resolved before the loser of a 
combat round places his card on the combat stack.
Stand-offs
A stand-off occurs when both the Hero and the Monster have the 
same attack value, for example if both players play Combat cards 
with a “3” attack value. A player may still counterattack and turn the 
stand-off into a victory if his card’s counterattack icon matches his 
opponent’s attack type (see the “Resolve Counterattack” step). If both 
players’ cards have the same attack value and the same attack type, 
the round automatically ends in a stand-off without any opportunity 
to counterattack.
If a round ends in a stand-off, both of the players’ cards are placed on 
the combat stack and players return to step 1: “Draw Combat Cards.”
End of Combat
Combat ends when either the Monster is killed or the Hero is killed. 
When combat ends, the Monster’s card that started the combat, if 
there is one, must be discarded to the discard pile for the deck it was 
drawn from. All Power cards are returned to their respective decks, 
and all Combat cards are shuffled back into the Combat deck.
Hero Victory 
The Monster’s life value is the number featured on the bottom of its 
token. During combat, the monster player may look at the numbered 
side of his monster token but must keep it facedown so that other 
players cannot see it.
If the Monster has a number of cards in its damage stack equal to 
or exceeding its life value, it is killed and the combat ends. All of 
the cards in the Hero’s damage stack are converted to actual wound 
tokens. For example, if a Hero has three cards in his damage stack, he 
must take three wound tokens and add them to his Hero card. Then 
the monster token is returned to the pool and randomized.
Monster Victory
During combat, each of the cards in a Hero’s damage stack counts as 
one wound. These wounds are added to the number of wound tokens 
the Hero accumulated before he engaged in combat. Therefore, when 
a Hero has a number of wounds (wound tokens plus cards in his 
damage stack) equal to or greater than his life value, he is killed.
Then the monster player places his monster token in the chamber the 
Monster was encountered in. It is important to note that damage to 
a victorious Monster does not carry over to later combats. The next 
time the surviving Monster is encountered, it has the full life value 
indicated by its monster token.
Canceled Cards
Some Power cards allow a player to cancel his oppo-
nent’s Combat card. Whenever a card is canceled, all 
text on the card and its counterattack icon are ignored. 
In addition, the card’s attack value is reduced to zero 
and cannot be increased above zero (any modifiers are 
ignored). 
If a card is canceled that has a “next round” ability, then 
the ability may not be used on the following round 
(since text on the card is ignored).
Combat Tips
Mastering combat is essential to overcoming the 
monsters that prowl the depths of Dragonfire Dungeon. 
The following tips may help turn the tide of battle in 
your favor.
Cards with a low attack value of 1 or 2 are best when 
they can be combined in a counterattack. Do not play 
a card with a low attack value card unless you have 
another card of the same attack type that can be used in 
a counterattack.
Playing a card with a low attack value is risky, but it 
may also give you the opportunity to play several cards 
during a counterattack if your opponent plays a card 
with a high attack value.
Pay close attention to the combat stack. If the combat 
stack contains several cards of the same attack type, it 
will make a devastating deathblow.
Knowing what type of attack your opponent is going 
to play is a big advantage. If the combat stack contains 
several cards of the same attack type, it is likely your 
opponent will try to make a deathblow with that attack 
type. 
If your opponent counterattacked last round, he prob-
ably does not have many cards of that attack type left 
in his hand. Therefore, it is unlikely he will be able to 
make another counterattack with that attack type.

Combat Example 1: 
Basic Attack
attack value of 2. 
Lindel reveals a 
attack value of 3. 
Lindel wins because his attack value is higher. Lindel 
places his card in the skeleton’s damage stack, and then 
the skeleton places its card in the combat stack.
Combat Example 2: 
Stand-off
attack value of 1. 
value of 1. 
Both cards have the same attack value, but Lindel has 
the option to counterattack because his card’s magic 
counterattack icon matches his opponent’s magic attack 
type. Lindel chooses not to counterattack, so a stand-off 
results. Both cards are then placed on the combat stack.

Combat Example 3: Counterattack
ranged attack with an 
attack value of 1. 
value of 3. 
The skeleton is losing, but he has the option to coun-
terattack because his card’s melee counterattack icon 
matches his opponent’s melee attack type.
The skeleton chooses to counterattack by adding 
another ranged Combat card with an attack value of 
2, bringing his total attack value to 3. The skeleton 
could choose to stop playing cards, which would result 
in a stand-off because both players have the same 
total attack value. However, the skeleton chooses to 
continue the counterattack and play a ranged Power 
card “Poisoned Arrow” with an attack value of 2, bring-
ing his total attack value to 5. The special ability on 
the skeleton’s Power card is resolved and will give the 
skeleton a +4 bonus to his attack value next round if 
Lindel plays a magic attack.
The skeleton must now stop playing cards because his 
total attack value of 5 exceeds his opponent’s attack 
value of 3. This total beats Lindel’s attack value, so the 
skeleton wins this combat round.
The skeleton places all three of his ranged Combat 
and Power cards in Lindel’s damage stack. Then Lindel 
places the melee Combat card he played on the combat 
stack. This is not enough damage to kill Lindel so 
combat continues to the next round.

Lindel has a higher attack value, so he places his card in 
the skeleton’s damage stack. The skeleton does not have 
the option to counterattack because his card’s counter-
attack icon (ranged) does not match Lindel’s attack type 
(melee).
Since Lindel’s melee attack type also matches the attack 
type of cards in the combat stack, Lindel takes all of the 
melee cards in the combat stack and adds them to the 
skeleton’s damage stack. Lindel has made a deathblow 
against the skeleton. Finally, the skeleton places the 
magic Combat card he played on the combat stack.
Combat Example 4: 
Deathblow
attack value of 2.
value of 4.
Combat Example 5: 
End of Combat
Life Value
The skeleton’s monster token has a 
life value of three. At the end of the 
round, the skeleton has four cards in his 
damage stack. This number is equal to 
or greater than the skeleton’s life value, 
so the skeleton is killed. 
Lindel then suffers a number of wounds equal to the 
number of cards in his damage stack. Lindel takes three 
wound tokens and places them on his Hero card. Then 
the players shuffle all Combat and Power cards back 
into their pertinent decks.

Exploring the Catacombs
The Catacombs are a perilous labyrinth of crumbling vaults and 
passageways that wind their way underneath the dungeon. Legends 
say the greatest treasure in the realm is buried in the Catacombs, 
worth far more than anything in Kalladra’s Treasure Chamber! Some 
encounters force Heroes to drop down into the Catacombs, while 
other encounters grant Heroes the option to enter.
Catacomb Entrances
When a Hero encounters a Dungeon or 
Search card called “Passage Down,” he 
may enter the Catacombs on his next turn 
instead of moving or searching. Whether 
or not the Hero chooses to enter, he must 
place a catacomb entrance marker on 
the Dungeon chamber where he found the 
entrance. (Exception: If a Hero draws a 
“Passage Down” on a Cave-in chamber, he 
may still enter the Catacombs, but he does 
not place a catacomb entrance marker on the chamber, regardless of 
whether he enters the Catacombs or not, as the cave-in has filled in 
the entrance).
When a Hero encounters a Catacomb Entrance chamber or a 
Dungeon chamber with a catacomb entrance marker, he finds a path 
down to the Catacombs. The Hero must encounter the chamber as 
normal, drawing a Dungeon card and resolving it as usual. However, 
on the Hero’s next turn, he can choose to enter the Catacombs 
instead of moving or searching.
Travel Markers
When a Hero enters the Catacombs, his travel 
marker must be placed next to his Hero figure, with 
the arrow pointing in the direction of his choice. 
He then removes the Hero figure from the board 
and places it on his Hero card. Once the player has 
placed his travel marker on the board, his direction 
of movement has been set and he may not move the 
marker or point it in a different direction.
Heroes may enter a chamber that contains another Hero’s travel 
marker, and can even enter the Catacombs from the same chamber. 
If they choose to do so, they place their travel marker on the chamber 
as normal, and they can choose to point their travel marker in any 
direction they choose (they do not have to move in the same direc-
tion as the other Heroes).
Encounters in the Catacombs
Heroes in the Catacombs do not move or search like Heroes exploring 
the dungeon above. Instead, a Hero in the Catacombs must draw 
a Catacomb card at the start of each of his turns. Catacomb cards 
are similar to Dungeon cards and are resolved following the normal 
rules for encountering Dungeon cards. All Catacomb cards a Hero 
encounters are placed in a pile beside his Hero card instead of being 
discarded, so that players can count them when (or if) the Hero finds 
an exit out of the Catacombs. If a Hero resolves an encounter that 
instructs him to discard the card, such as the “Torch Goes Out,” the 
card is still placed in the pile beside his Hero card.
Exiting the Catacombs
When a Hero resolves an encounter that allows him to exit the Cata-
combs, he must find out where in Dragonfire Dungeon he resurfaces. 
To determine where the Hero resurfaces in the dungeon, his player 
counts all of the Catacomb cards the Hero has accumulated next to 
his Hero card and rolls a die. 
The number of Catacomb cards the Hero acquired determines how 
many spaces he advanced underneath Dragonfire Dungeon in the 
direction of his travel marker. He advances his travel marker one 
space in that direction for each Catacomb card he acquired (includ-
ing the card he drew that turn). The die roll determines how far the 
Hero shifts to the left or right after he has advanced the appropriate 
number of spaces in the direction his travel marker points. The Hero 
must choose whether he shifts left or right before the die is rolled. The 
Hero does not explore or encounter any of the spaces he passes under.
Exception: While in the Catacombs, Heroes never pass further than 
the outer walls of Dragonfire Dungeon. The Hero still accumulates 
Catacomb cards as normal, but when he resurfaces in the dungeon, 
if the Hero has drawn so many cards that he would pass outside the 
dungeon, he only counts as many Catacomb cards as will take him to 
the outer wall. For example, if a Hero has seven cards but his travel 
marker is only five spaces from the dungeon wall, he determines 
where he resurfaces as if he has only five cards. Similarly, if the die roll 
would place the Hero outside the dungeon, he stops at the dungeon 
wall instead.
When a Hero resurfaces in the dungeon, his figure is placed back 
on the board and his travel marker is removed from the board and 
placed next to his Hero card. The Hero must then return all the 
Catacomb cards he collected to the Catacomb deck and shuffle it. 
Exception: Any Loot or encounters with instructions to keep the 
card are not returned to the Catacomb deck. If a Hero enters the 
Catacombs again, none of those cards count towards advancing in the 
Catacombs.
If a Hero resurfaces from the Catacombs in a Chasm or Bridge, he 
may choose which side of the chamber he places his Hero figure on. 
If a Hero encounters a Monster the turn after he exits the Cata-
combs, he must attack; he may not attempt to escape.
Catacomb Entrance 
Marker
Travel Marker

Resurfacing in an Explored 
Space
When a Hero resurfaces from the Catacombs into an explored space 
of the dungeon such as a Dungeon chamber or the Treasure Cham-
ber, his turn immediately ends. The Hero does not encounter the 
chamber or any Monsters in the chamber. However, on the Hero’s 
next turn, he must encounter the chamber (instead of moving or 
searching) as if he just entered it. A Hero may resurface in a chamber 
with another Hero.
Resurfacing in an Unexplored 
Space
When a Hero resurfaces from the Catacombs into an unexplored 
space, he immediately draws a Dungeon chamber and places it on 
that space. The Dungeon chamber’s entrance arrow may be pointed 
in the direction of his choice. Then the Hero’s turn immediately 
ends. The Hero does not encounter the Dungeon chamber. However, 
on the Hero’s next turn, he must encounter the chamber (instead of 
moving or searching) as if he just entered it.
Lindel has already accumulated two Catacomb cards during 
his previous turns. On his next turn, he encounters an “Exit” 
card and chooses to leave the Catacombs. Lindel has accu-
mulated a total of three cards, so he moves his travel marker 
forward three spaces. Next, he discards all of the Catacomb 
cards he has accumulated, except for the “Treasure Chest” 
because it is a Loot card.
Lindel chooses to shift to the right, and then rolls a die to 
determine how many spaces he moves. The die result is a “2,” 
which places his Hero figure two spaces to the right. Lindel’s 
travel marker is then removed from board. The space is 
unexplored, so Lindel draws a Dungeon chamber and places 
it in the space (in any orientation). Lindel must encounter the 
chamber on his next turn, as if he just entered it.
Example of Exiting the Catacombs

Other Rules
The following sections present rules for DungeonQuest that have not 
been previously described.
Attribute Tests
Throughout the game, Heroes are required to use their individual 
attributes to overcome challenges, represented by attribute tests. 
Attributes are listed on the Hero card for that Hero, and the attribute 
values indicate what the Hero’s strengths and weaknesses are. Heroes 
have four different attributes that can be tested in DungeonQuest: 
Strength, Agility, Armor, and Luck (see “Hero Card Breakdown” on 
page 7).
When a Hero is directed to make an attribute test, the instructions 
always list one of the Hero’s attributes to test against. For example 
an encounter may require a Hero to “Test Strength.” To make an 
attribute test, the Hero rolls two dice and compares the total on the 
dice to the Hero’s attribute. If the total on the dice is greater than 
the Hero’s attribute, the Hero fails at the attribute test. If the total 
on the dice is equal to or less than the Hero’s attribute, the Hero 
succeeds at the attribute test. The encounter that caused the attribute 
test will describe what happens when a Hero fails or succeeds at the 
attribute test. Generally, succeeding at an attribute test just means 
that nothing bad happens to the Hero, while failing an attribute test 
can be disastrous.
Determination Tokens
Whenever a Hero fails an attribute test, he receives 
one determination token. The next time the Hero 
attempts the attribute test for that encounter, each 
determination token he has increases his relevant 
attribute by one, making passing future attribute 
tests easier. When the encounter is finally resolved 
(whether by succeeding at the test or giving up the 
attempt), the Hero discards all of his determina-
tion tokens.
Hero Deaths
Dragonfire Dungeon is Terrinoth’s most dangerous lair, and deaths 
amongst Heroes are common. There are innumerable ways for 
Heroes to die in DungeonQuest. For example, Heroes can be killed 
by being trapped in a dead end, or falling down a Bottomless Pit, or 
being locked in the dungeon after the sun has set. However, the most 
common way for a Hero to die is by taking a number of wounds 
equal to or greater than his life value.
A killed Hero must be removed from the board and all of his cards 
and tokens returned to their respective decks and piles. The Hero’s 
card is then flipped facedown as a reminder of his death. Killed 
Heroes can no longer affect the game in any way.
Eliminated Players
When a player’s Hero is killed, the player loses the game and becomes 
an eliminated player. Eliminated players still participate in the game 
and continue to play the role of Monsters for the player to their right. 
Even if the First Player is eliminated, he still advances the sun token 
at the start of his turn.
Healing
During the game, Heroes may have the opportunity to heal. When 
a Hero heals, he simply discards the indicated number of wound 
tokens from his Hero card. The encounter or ability that provides the 
healing will state how many wounds a Hero may heal.
Example of an 
Attribute Test
Challara encounters a “Trapdoor” card that requires her 
to test her Agility attribute. Challara rolls two dice and 
gets a “2” and “5” result, giving her a total of 7. 
Challara then compares the total of 7 to her Agility 
value of 6. Since the total is greater than Challara’s attri-
bute, she fails the test. The “Trapdoor” causes Challara 
to suffer a wound and requires her to test again next 
turn. However, Challara also receives a determination 
token for failing the test.
On her next turn, Challara tests Agility again and rolls 
a total of 7. Challara’s determination token increases 
her Agility to 7, which is equal to the dice total. She 
succeeds at the test and is able to discard the “Trap-
door.” Her determination token is removed from her 
Hero card because the encounter was resolved.
Determination 
Token

Monsters in Dragonfire Dungeon do not just disappear when a Hero 
escapes them or is killed by them. The Monster lurks in the chamber 
until the next Hero comes along. The presence of a Monster that is 
lingering in this manner is marked with a monster token. Thus, the 
monster player places a monster token in a chamber when a Hero 
encounters a Monster and either escapes it or is killed by it. 
If a Hero enters a Dungeon chamber that contains a monster token, 
the Hero must first encounter the Monster. If the Hero kills the 
Monster, he must then encounter the chamber. 
Unlike in Dragonfire Dungeon itself, monster tokens are not placed 
during encounters in the Catacombs. If a Hero escapes from or is 
killed by a Monster in the Catacombs, the Monster wanders off and 
a monster token is not placed on the board.
If a monster player needs to place a monster token in a chamber, but 
all the monster tokens of that type have already been placed on the 
board, the monster player must choose a monster token of that type 
on the board and move it to the chamber instead. 
Similarly, if a monster player needs to place a monster token in 
front of himself to establish the life value of a Monster, but all the 
monster tokens of that type have already been placed on the board, 
the monster player must choose a monster token of that type on the 
board and place it in front of himself. He cannot examine the life 
value on the monster tokens before making his choice.
If a Hero encounters a monster token on the board and kills the 
Monster, the monster token is removed from the board and is now 
available to be placed on the board again on future turns (killed 
Monsters are never removed from the game).
Using Runes
Each rune is inscribed with a powerful spell that can be used once 
per game. For example, a Hero might be able to heal, teleport, or 
automatically avoid a Trap or a Monster. These runes are represented 
by Rune cards, which are randomly chosen by the Heroes during 
Setup. When a Hero wishes to use a rune, he discards the Rune card 
at the time indicated on the Rune card and resolves whatever effect 
the Rune card provides. The Hero returns the discarded Rune card to 
the box; that rune is not used for the rest of the game.
Optional Rules
The sections that follow present a variety of optional rules players can 
use to change up their game of DungeonQuest. If players want to use 
any of the rules discussed there, they must make sure that everyone 
understands and agrees to the rules before the game begins. 
Going It Alone
While DungeonQuest is great for multiple players, it also makes an 
excellent solo game, in which one Hero tries to beat the perils of 
Dragonfire Dungeon in a race against the clock.
The solo game uses all the normal rules, with the exception of some 
of the rules related to combat. Since there are no other players to take 
the role of the monster player, the Hero must perform the Monster’s 
actions during combat. 
When a monster token is drawn to determine the Monster’s life, 
the token is placed faceup instead of facedown. Therefore, the Hero 
always knows how much damage is required to kill the Monster.
The necessary changes to the steps of combat are listed below. 
 
The Hero does not add a Power card to his hand. Power cards 
are only used to resolve an attempt to escape the Monster. The 
Monster does not have a hand of cards at all.
Since the Monster has no hand of cards, when he plays a Combat 
card, he simply plays the top card of the Combat deck.
 
If the Monster is able to make a counterattack, reveal the top five 
cards of the Combat deck. If any of those cards are able to be used 
for a successful counterattack, the cards must be played. All of the 
remaining revealed cards are then discarded.
 
No changes are required.
A player can win at solo DungeonQuest if his Hero manages to exit 
Dragonfire Dungeon with at least one Treasure card before nightfall. 
If a more challenging game is desired, the player can try to beat his 
previous highest total gold value in order to win.
Servants of Kalladra
This variant allows eliminated players to take on a new role in the 
game; they control the monster tokens! 
During an eliminated player’s turn, he may move one monster token 
on the board to a chamber adjacent to the monster token. Monsters 
can move freely through doors and portcullises. Monsters also ignore 
any Dungeon chamber effects. For example, they cannot be trapped 
in a Spider Web or fall into a Bottomless Pit. Monsters may never 
exit the dungeon, nor dare enter the Treasure Chamber. A Monster 
can never move into a chamber that already has a Monster in it.
If there are two or more monster tokens on the board, a monster 
token cannot be moved a second time until a different monster token 
has been moved. For example, if there is one skeleton monster token 
and one demon monster token on the board, and an eliminated 
player chooses to move the demon monster token during his turn, 
that demon monster token may not be moved again until a different 
monster token (the skeleton, for example) has been moved.
During a Hero player’s turn, the player to his left still takes the role of 
the Monster during combat.

Attacking Heroes
If a Monster moves into a Dungeon chamber with a Hero during 
an eliminated player’s turn, the Hero must immediately resolve the 
encounter: the Hero must attack or attempt to escape following the 
normal rules. The eliminated player who moved the monster token 
plays the role of the Monster for the combat instead of the player to 
the left of the Hero’s player. After the encounter ends, play continues 
to the left of the monster player who moved the monster token.
Adding More Monsters
If there are fewer monster tokens on the board than there are remain-
ing Heroes, a monster player may add a new monster token to the 
board instead of moving a monster token during his turn. To deter-
mine which monster token is placed, the monster player draws the 
top card of the Dungeon deck until a Monster is drawn. (If he draws 
the “Shuffle” card while doing so, he shuffles the Dungeon deck 
and its discard pile together and continues drawing until he draws 
a Monster.) He then discards all of the drawn Dungeon cards. The 
monster player places the new monster token on a Dungeon chamber 
of his choice adjacent to a Tower Room.
Multiple Monsters in a Chamber
If a Hero enters a room with more than one monster token, he must 
choose which order to encounter them in. If the Hero escapes, he 
does not encounter any of the other Monsters in the chamber.
Death Can Wait
When Heroes are killed, they are knocked out instead. When a 
Hero is knocked out, he rolls a die and discards that many of his 
Loot cards of his choice to the discard piles of the decks they came 
from. Then the Hero discards half of the total wounds he has suffered 
(round up) and immediately ends his turn.
If a Hero is killed due to being trapped in a dead end (see “Dead 
Ends” on page 9), he places his Hero figure in an adjacent space of 
his choice using the same rules as resurfacing from the Catacombs 
(see page 21).
Cloak and Dagger
This variant makes the end of the game more exciting because players 
do not know the gold value their opponents have. When Heroes 
gain Loot, the cards are placed facedown instead of faceup and kept 
hidden from other players. Players can look at their own Loot, but 
cannot reveal their cards to other players. Other players may still 
count how many Loot cards a Hero has.
Magical Might
In this variant, Heroes have more power at their disposal, which 
could make them fearless or reckless. Instead of each Hero start-
ing the game with only one Rune card, Heroes start the game with 
several Rune cards. Players must collectively agree how many Rune 
cards Heroes receive before starting the game. 
Live to Fight Another Day
This variant allows Heroes to attempt to escape during combat, rather 
than only before combat. If a Hero wins a combat round, he may 
announce that he is attempting to escape. If he chooses to make such 
an attempt, any cards that would have been added to his opponent’s 
damage stack for winning that combat round are discarded instead 
(so the Hero inflicts no damage that round). If the Hero wins the 
next combat round, he escapes instead of inflicting damage to the 
Monster. At the end of that round, combat ends and the Hero suffers 
wounds as normal for a Hero who survives combat. The Hero must 
escape at that point; he cannot choose to cause damage and continue 
fighting. If the Hero does not win the combat round after the round 
in which he declared he was attempting to escape, he cannot escape 
and combat continues as normal. However, if the Hero later wins 
another combat round, he may again attempt to escape.
No Guts, No Glory
In this variant, Heroes cannot exit the dungeon unless they have 
at least one Treasure card. Only Loot taken from the very heart of 
Kalladra’s lair will do. Anything less is not a worthy quest for legend-
ary Heroes.
Late Start
This variant gives Heroes even less time to exit the dungeon and 
makes the race against the setting sun even more challenging. During 
Setup, the sun token is placed on the first space of the sun track as 
normal. Then one player rolls a die and moves the sun token that 
many spaces forward along the sun track.
Tower Power
This variant gives Heroes more options for movement in the 
dungeon. When a Hero enters a Tower Room, he may move to any 
other Tower Room. The Hero must then immediately move again to 
a space adjacent to the Tower Room.
Hero vs. Hero Combat
This variant allows Heroes to enter spaces with other Heroes and 
attack them. When a Hero moves into a space with another Hero, 
he must attack him (there is no chance of escape during a Hero vs. 
Hero combat). Combat is resolved following the normal rules, except 
the combat ends after any round in which a Hero has four or more 
cards in his damage stack. That Hero is defeated, and the other Hero 
is the victor. The victor may take any one Loot card of his choice 
from the defeated Hero. The defeated Hero must then move into an 
adjacent chamber as if he escaped from a Monster. 
If any timing issues occur, the Hero who initiated the attack decides 
which order they are resolved in.
A Hero cannot attack other Heroes in the Treasure Chamber.

Legendary Heroes
Tatianna
“In the dark and untamed places of Terrinoth dwells my tribe, a proud and fierce sisterhood of warriors. 
For ages, we have stood self-sufficient and have had no need for the world of men. But each day the outside 
world encroaches further into our wilds. I have seen their weapons and magical artifacts. I have seen the 
treasures that could ensure my sisters will survive when we can no longer stand apart from the outside 
world. The others in my tribe say I am a fool, but once I have enough gold, I will return to my people with 
magic and steel. A fool I may be, but my sisters must survive.”
Lindel
“The many years of an elf’s life can weigh heavily upon him. From village to village I have wandered, 
hearing the sad tales of lost children, spouses, friends, and loved ones who have thrown their lives away 
seeking gold in the depths of Dragonfire Dungeon. That wretched place has brought sorrow and loss to so 
many hearts... I will endure it no longer. Once and for all, those deadly halls must be emptied of their 
treasures. No more will loved ones dig their own graves in a fool’s quest for ancient gold.”
Hugo the Glorious
“I, Hugo the Glorious, plan to achieve an enduring fame unlike anything that has been known before. 
Other Knights of Kellos might be happy enough to boast of duels won or giants defeated, but I will put 
these stories to shame when I stand in the feast hall and tell of the perils within Dragonfire Dungeon. 
When I display the priceless relics recovered from the depths below, men will gasp, women will swoon, and 
children with cower with terror. No one who hears of my legendary quest will ever forget the name Hugo 
the Glorious!”
Brother Gherinn
“The priests of Kellos took me in and gave me shelter. They asked me nothing of the many heinous crimes in 
my past. But like all members of the Brotherhood, in time I had to face the purifying fire, and all my many 
transgressions became evident in the form of scars and burns over much of my body. I am a different man, 
now. I follow a different path, but I cannot forget my past. Only an act of true bravery, facing Dragonfire 
Dungeon and bringing back valuables for my brethren, will free me from the shadows of my past.
Challara and Brightblaze
“The roots of my noble family can be traced back to the Dragon Wars and beyond. Some of the treasures 
stolen by Kalladra to lure fortune-seekers into the dungeon came from my ancestors. The knowledge that 
the detestable beast Kalladra is still alive and in the midst of so much of my inheritance has vexed me 
my whole life. I will use all of my considerable abilities to ensure that Kalladra deprives my family of our 
heirlooms no longer.”
Krutzbeck
“Why should I worry? Haven’t found a fight yet that left me on the ground. So you say Dragonfire Dungeon 
is the deadliest in the realm? Heh! To me the dungeon is just another collection of things to hit and one 
more trophy to claim. If I need to grab some gold to get them to notice me, so be it. But the hitting, that’s 
the important bit.”

Clarifications
This section details rules for special circumstances, should they occur 
during the game.
Threats that Result in Combat
Some encounters, such as the 
“Old Bones” and the “Deep 
Elf,” are Threats that may turn 
into Monsters. These encounters 
use monster tokens and Power 
cards for the particular Monster 
indicated on the card. If the Hero 
escapes or is killed, the monster 
token is placed on the Hero’s space 
following the normal rules for 
encountering a Monster.
Limited Resources
All components are limited to the amounts provided with the game. 
For example, if all catacomb entrance markers are in use, no addition-
al catacomb entrance markers may be placed on the board. Monster 
tokens follow their own rules, detailed in “Monster Tokens” on page 
24. However, if a character is able to trade five 1-point wound tokens 
for one 5-point wound token, he must immediately do so.
Multiple Heroes in a Chamber
Heroes may not move onto a chamber that is already occupied by 
another Hero, except the Treasure Chamber. However, the following 
circumstances may result in two or more Heroes sharing a chamber. 
Emerging From the Catacombs
When a Hero resurfaces from the Catacombs, he may be placed in a 
space that is already occupied by another Hero.
Escaping From a Monster
When a Hero escapes from a Monster, he may escape into a space 
that is already occupied by another Hero.
Start of Turn Effects
If a Hero has two or more effects that resolve at the start of his turn, 
he must resolve all of them in the order of his choice. The Hero must 
resolve all of these effects, even if one results in his turn immediately 
ending.
If a Hero in the Catacombs resolves an effect that immediately ends 
his turn, he does not draw a new Catacomb card for that turn.
Encountering a Monster with 
Special Movement
When a Hero escapes from a Monster (see “Escape” on page 12), 
retreats during Dragon Rage (see “Looting the Treasure Chamber” on 
page 13), or resurfaces from the catacombs (see “Exiting the Cata-
combs” on page 21), he must encounter the chamber he entered as a 
result of this special movement on his next turn. If a monster token is 
in the chamber, he must first encounter the Monster. If the Monster 
is killed, the Hero must then encounter the chamber.
Blocked Heroes
If a Hero has already searched a chamber twice and the only chamber 
he can move into is already occupied by another Hero, the Hero is 
blocked. Blocked Heroes must lose their turn until they are able to 
move into an empty chamber.
Special Ability vs. Rules
In any instance where a special ability or effect is at a variance with 
the basic rules, the special ability or effect always overrides the rules.
Entering a Bridge with Special 
Movement
If a Hero enters a Bridge chamber with special movement such as a 
“Secret Passage” from the Search deck, he chooses which side of the 
chamber to place his Hero figure.
If a Hero resurfaces from the Catacombs into a Bridge chamber, he 
chooses which side of the chamber to place his Hero figure.
Example of Entering 
a Bridge with 
Special Movement
Tatianna searches and draws a “Secret Door” card from 
the Search deck. She chooses to move into an adjacent 
Bridge chamber. She can move to whichever side of 
the Bridge chamber she wishes. Tatianna must then 
encounter the chamber following the normal rules.

Credits
Game Design: Jakob Bonds
Game Development: John Goodenough
Flavor Text: Tim Uren
Editing: Mark O’Connor
Graphic Design: Andrew Navaro and WiL Springer
Cover Art: Jesper Ejsing
Hero Art: Jacob Glaser
Dungeon Chamber Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Card Art: Banu Andaru, Felicia Cano, Jesper Ejsing, Lou Frank, 
Jacob Glaser, John Goodenough, Rafal Hrynkiewicz, Henning 
Ludvigsen, Andrew Navaro, Ben Prenevost, and Frank Walls 
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Playtesters: Elliott Eastoe, J.R. Godwin, Andrea Goodenough, Judy 
Goodenough, James Hata, Sally Karkula, Brett Klooster, Daniel 
Klooster, Rob Kouba, Chris Mayfield, Andrew Navaro, Jon New, 
Mark O’Connor, Mark Pollard, Guy Reed, Matt Root, Brady Sadler, 
WiL Springer, Richard Tatge, Thorin Tatge, Tim Uren, Jason Walden, 
Barac Wiley, Kevin Wilson, and Sara Yordanov
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
FFG Lead Designer: Corey Konieczka
FFG Lead Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Special Thanks: Dan Glimne (Drakborgen edition) and Gustav 
Bonds (Legenden edition)
© 2010 Fantasy Flight Games. DungeonQuest is a trademark of 
Scanditoy AB, all rights reserved. No part of this product may be 
reproduced without specific permission. Runebound, Descent: Journeys 
in the Dark, Runewars, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, 
and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, 
Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, 
Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can be reached by 
telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records.
For additional material, support, and information, 
please visit us on the web: 
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
Helpful Hints
Choosing the best route across the game board is 
crucial. Players must evaluate if it is better to move 
along a route that is already explored with known 
Dungeon chambers or risk an unexplored but possibly 
shorter route. 
Heroes who have only suffered a few wounds can risk 
more dangerous encounters rather than traverse cham-
bers that are slower to move through, such as a Cave-in 
or rooms with doors.
When Heroes encounter Monsters, they are faced with 
the important decision of whether to escape or attack. 
Some Monsters are more difficult to escape from and 
will inflict more wounds if the escape attempt fails. 
Certain Heroes are also better at escaping than others, 
so players should carefully review the escape values on 
their Power cards before making the decision to escape 
or attack. 
Heroes should consider which chamber they must 
return to if they successfully escape because it may be 
even more dangerous than fighting the Monster!
Looting the Treasure Chamber takes fine judgment 
and steady nerves. The longer a Hero stays, the more 
treasure he finds, but the greater the risk of waking the 
Dragonlord or the sun setting before he can exit the 
dungeon. In general, it is not a good idea to spend any 
longer in the Treasure Chamber than is necessary.
tm

Denizens of Dragonfire Dungeon
Not all denizens that call Dragonfire Dungeon home are there at Kalladra’s bidding. Many things dwell 
in the dungeon simply to exploit those who would seek the wealth within. These creatures would never 
risk combat, but they can prove to be deadly obstacles nonetheless.
Nagas are shunned snakelike creatures 
that naturally seek forsaken places to 
nest. If disturbed, they are armed with 
powerful spells and long, flexible tails, 
used to pin their prey down.
These powerful batlike creatures fly 
above the fray, swooping down to tear 
at their prey with their deadly talons. 
Some razorwings move as quick as the 
wind itself, striking before they are 
even seen. 
Razorwing
Naga
Bane spiders are gigantic arachnids 
that spit poisonous blood. Some bane 
spiders, marked with a red hourglass 
on their back, also hurl sticky webs at 
their prey. Bane spiders weave webs 
through dark and narrow corridors in 
order to trap unwary adventurers.
Bane Spider
Far beneath the earth lives a society 
of elves that have turned their backs 
on their fellows. They have become 
an elite order of assassins, hiring 
their knives and their skills out to the 
highest bidder. Greedy and conniving, 
they will even turn on their masters 
if the price is right. The best assassins 
are given ice daggers that cover their 
victims in a thin sheet of frost, making 
their weapons and armor extremely 
brittle. 
Deep Elf
Ferrox
Shade
An insane wizard created these 
blighted creatures from razorwings 
many years ago. Their hunger for 
blood has spelled the doom of many an 
adventurer, and wounds inflicted by 
ferrox tend to cause serious blood loss 
and heal very slowly. The most power-
ful ferrox have a white stripe in their 
hair and are capable of draining the 
life energy from their opponents and 
using it to heal themselves. 
It’s unknown whether these undead 
creatures are the result of necromantic 
magic, or if they are merely tormented 
souls unable to find peace. Whatever 
their origin, these ghostly aberrations 
look like tattered, hovering, hooded 
cloaks, their raised hoods empty save 
for twin points of frozen light where 
their eyes used to be. Shades hate the 
living, and their jealousy causes them 
to moan and wail as they seek to snuff 
the life from all who venture close. 

Dungeon Room
Bottomless Pit
Test Luck. If you succeed, you make it 
across the pit, and you take your next 
turn as normal. If you fail, you have fallen 
into the pit and are killed!
Catacomb Entrance
On your next turn, you may enter the 
Catacombs instead of moving normally.
Trap Room
Draw a Trap card.
Tower Room
If you have one or more Loot cards, you 
may exit the dungeon. 
If you cannot or choose not to exit the 
dungeon, you must immediately move 
again.
Chamber of 
Darkness
You must immediately move again. Roll 
one die and consult the results marked 
on the chamber to see which passage you 
exit from.
If the passage you rolled is blocked by a 
wall, your turn ends and you must roll 
again next turn.
Treasure Chamber
Draw a Dragon card.
Chamber Descriptions
Corridor
You must immediately move again. You 
cannot enter the same Corridor twice 
during the same turn.
Chasm
An uncrossable fissure divides the cham-
ber. On your next turn, you may only 
exit through a passage on the same side of 
the Chasm that you entered from.
If you resurface from the Catacombs into 
a Chasm, you choose which side of the 
chamber to place your Hero figure.

Cave-in
On your next turn, you may either retreat 
or attempt to cross the cave-in.
If you retreat, you must return to the 
Dungeon chamber you entered from. 
If you attempt to cross the cave-in, test 
Agility. If you succeed, you cross the cave-
in and continue your turn as normal. If 
you fail, you become trapped and must 
stay in the chamber. Next turn, you may 
either retreat or attempt to cross the 
cave-in.
Bridge
You may either stay on the side you entered the chamber from 
or attempt to cross the bridge.
If you stay on the side of the chamber you entered from, on 
your next turn, you must return to the Dungeon chamber you 
entered from. 
If you attempt to cross the bridge, test Agility but add +1 to 
your dice roll for each Loot card you have. You may discard 
any number of your Loot cards before you make the attribute 
test, if you wish.
If you succeed, you must immediately move again. If you fail, 
you fall off the bridge and drop down to the Catacombs; then 
roll one die and suffer that many wounds.
Rotating Room
When the Rotating Room is placed on the board (after the 
Hero has entered it), the chamber rotates 180 degrees. Then, 
the Hero’s turn ends. The Rotating Room only ever rotates 
once; if a Hero enters the chamber again, it does not rotate.
If a Rotating Room’s passage is blocked by a wall, the Hero 
may try to leave by searching, in the hopes of finding a 
“Secret Door” or a “Passage Down” (see “Searching” on page 
10). If the Hero does not leave the Rotating Room before the 
end of the second search attempt, he is trapped in the dead 
end and is killed.
Chamber Descriptions
Portcullis
You cannot escape from Monsters while 
you are in this chamber; you must attack 
instead.
On your next turn, if you choose to 
move through the portcullis, you must 
test Strength. If you succeed, you lift the 
portcullis and move normally. If you fail, 
the portcullis is too heavy and you must 
stay in the chamber. Next turn, you may 
try to lift the portcullis again or may exit 
through a different passage.
Spider Web
You may either retreat or attempt to cross 
the web.
If you retreat, on your next turn, you 
must return to the Dungeon chamber 
you entered from.
If you attempt to cross the web, test 
Strength. If you succeed, you must 
immediately move again. If you fail, you 
become trapped and must stay in the 
chamber. Once a Hero is trapped, he 
must try to cross the web again at the start 
of each of his turns until he succeeds

Rules Summary
The rules summary contains all of the basic rules players need 
to play DungeonQuest. 
Player Turns
DungeonQuest is played over a series of turns, beginning with 
the First Player and then continuing to the left. When a Hero 
takes his turn, he must perform one of the following actions:
Move into an adjacent space
OR
Search the space he is in
After a hero performs one of these actions, play continues 
clockwise around the table.
Moving
The Hero moves his figure through a passage to an adjacent 
space; diagonal movement is never allowed. Heroes cannot 
move into a space occupied by another Hero, except for the 
Treasure Chamber. After a Hero moves, he must encounter the 
space he entered. See “Moving” on page 8 for more details.
Searching
The Hero simply draws the top card from the Search deck and 
follows its instructions.
A Hero may search a chamber twice on successive turns if he 
wishes. After a Hero has searched two successive turns, he 
must move on the next turn. If the Hero returns to the same 
chamber later, he may search it again, for up to two successive 
turns. 
Heroes may only search chambers that feature a search icon 
and only if there are no monster tokens in the chamber. See 
“Searching” on page 10 for more details.
Attribute Tests
To make an attribute test, the Hero rolls two dice and 
compares the total on the dice to the Hero’s attribute. If the 
total on the dice is greater than the Hero’s attribute, the Hero 
fails at the attribute test and receives one determination token. 
Each determination token increases the Hero’s attribute by 
one, making passing future attribute tests easier. If the total on 
the dice is equal to or less than the Hero’s attribute, the Hero 
succeeds at the attribute test. See “Attribute Tests” on page 23 
for more details.
Encountering Monsters
Encounters with Monsters are resolved using the following 
steps:
Determine Monster Player
Draw Monster Token
Escape or Attack 
See “Encountering Monsters” on page 11 for more details.
Escaping
Both the Hero and the monster player randomly draw one 
card from their stack of Power cards and compare the escape 
values (the white number in the bottom left corner) of the 
Power cards.
If the Hero’s escape value is less than the Monster’s escape 
value, the Hero fails to escape and must face the Monster in 
combat. In addition, the Hero suffers a number of wounds 
equal to the Monster’s damage value (the black number in the 
bottom left corner of the Power card).
If the Hero’s escape value is equal to or greater than the 
Monster’s escape value, the Hero successfully escapes and 
must leave the Dungeon chamber where he encountered the 
Monster and return to the Dungeon chamber he entered 
from. The Hero does not encounter the Dungeon chamber 
he returns to and his turn immediately ends. However, on 
the Hero’s next turn, he must then encounter the chamber 
he escaped to as if he just entered it (instead of moving or 
searching). The monster player then places his monster token 
facedown in the Dungeon chamber where the Monster was 
encountered. See “Escape” on page 12 for more details.
Combat
Each combat round is divided into four steps, which must be 
performed in order every round. These steps are repeated until 
either the Hero or the Monster is killed. The steps of combat 
are as follows:
See “Combat” on page 15 for more details.