They meet in a tavern. They quaff a few ales. Before the night is over, the strong warrior, the 
wily wizard, the commited priest and the sneaky thief form an inseparable party of adventurers, ready to 
rid the world of evil. And wouldn’t you know it? There just happens to be some evil within easy walking distance. 
A dark lord has filled a nearby hill with tunnels, traps, treasure, and trolls.
And so the next morning (or the next afternoon if too many ales were quaffed) the heroes set out to fight for Right, conquer 
the dungeon, and punish the wicked lord (by taking all his treasure, of course). It’s a classic scenario, and any veteran dungeon 
crawler will tell you that’s the way things ought to be.
But what about that dark lord? Does anyone ever think about his feelings? Those adventurers, who have never done an honest 
day’s work in their lives, cannot begin to imagine how much effort goes into building a respectable dungeon. They have no idea 
how hard it is to tunnel through granite, how expensive good traps are these days, how difficult it is to find qualified imps, or how 
much food it takes to feed a troll. And the bureaucracy! Dungeons must meet rigid safety specifications, gold mining is subject to 
strict regulations, and taxes are due whenever the Ministry of Dungeons feels like it. And as soon as the dungeon is built, some 
band of do-gooders comes along and hacks everything up. Life is not easy for a dungeon lord. 
Oh, you’re here already? Um... do come in. My name 
is [redacted to comply with advertising regula-
tions]. For over 300 years, I have been in the service 
of the great [redacted to comply with advertising regula-
tions]. The Ministry of Dungeons has asked me to round out 
this text with notes and comments from my centuries of ex-
perience. It is my honor to comply. Although if they don’t stop 
censoring me, they can take their pencil and [redacted to 
comply with obscenity regulations]. 
Hey, how’s it going? My name is The Nameless De-
mon from the Infinite Planes of Eternal Damnation, 
but my friends just call me That Damn Demon. I’m 
here to help you figure out this rulebook. I used to be an in-
structor at Razamoth’s Famous Dungeon Building Survival 
Camp. 
As I recall, Camp Razamoth’s only survivor was a 
student who caught the measles and was deemed 
to be “too contagious to eat”.
Hey, it was a tough camp. Let’s just say I know what 
makes aspiring dungeon lords tick. For example, I 
bet you’re reading these rules so you can explain the 
game to your friends, right? Well, I’ll give you tips on how to 
do that.
Perhaps this is a good place for a warning. The life 
of a dungeon lord is not easy, and not everyone is 
cut out for it. Problems can get out of hand even 
during construction, and then, once the adventurers appear...
Yeah, dungeon lording ain’t a walk in the park. If 
you’re looking for simple, light-hearted fun, maybe 
you should go kick puppies or something. But if 
you’re not afraid to surf the waves of darkness and chaos, if 
you’ve got dungeon lording in your blood, you’ll catch on 
pretty quick. Just keep reading.
We shall explain the rules in detail, with examples 
and notes to illuminate.
But it’s not as complicated as it looks. You can find 
a complete summary of the rules in the back of the 
book.
Support for this game comes from 
the Ministry of Dungeons Educa-
tional Trust Fund. We hope to refute 
common prejudices against dun-
geons and their builders while rais-
ing awareness of the destruction ad-
venturers cause to the underground 
ecosystem. For aspiring dungeon 
lords, this text is an introduction to 
the subject of dungeon construction, 
with emphasis on moral obligations 
such as proper monster care and 
prompt payment of taxes. Finally, 
this game provides adventurers an 
opportunity to examine the question 
of whether it is more fun to build a 
dungeon or to destroy one. 

Monster (or Ghost) Tile

The back of the Monster (or Ghost) Tile indicates 
whether it can be hired in the First Year (silver) 
or the Second Year (gold). In Combat Training, 
we will just look at the First Year Monsters (and 
Ghosts).
Summary
Combat Training
Dungeon Lords is a game for 2 to 4 players. You take the role of a young aspiring dungeon lord (just 15 to 20 decades old) who is trying to get a dungeon lord license. 
The Ministry of Dungeons gives you a trial period during which you attempt to build a high-quality dungeon and protect it from adventurers. At the end of two years, 
your dungeon is visited by Ministry officials who give you points for your engineering and tactical achievements.
The game alternates between Building and Combat. Each phase of play is illustrated on the Progress Board, which has one side for Building and another for Combat.
After Building, three adventurers come to your dungeon to face your monsters in Combat. Although it is out of order, we will go over Combat first, so you know what 
things to look for during Building.
When you’re explaining this game to your friends, 
don’t skip over Combat Training. You need to give 
them lots of Combat examples so they understand 
what’s coming for them.
If your friends can’t figure this part out, or if they think it 
isn’t any fun, then this probably is not the game for them. 
You might as well just eat them (or whatever it is humans do 
with people like that).
Despite popular misconception, ghosts are not, technically, 
monsters. In order to avoid the discrimination and loss of 
self-esteem that can arise from using the word “monsters” to 
also refer to ghosts, this publication will, in accordance with 
Ministry of Dungeons regulations, refer collectively to mon-
sters (and ghosts) with the recommended phrase, “monsters 
(and ghosts)”.
Building
The game begins with Building, which lasts 4 rounds (winter, 
spring, summer, and fall). Each round has several phases, which 
are indicated by the spaces on the Progress Board. The Prog-
ress Marker advances along these spaces, indicating the cur-
rent phase and round.
During Building, players expand and improve their dungeons, 
hire imps, recruit monsters, buy traps, and pay taxes. The 
dungeon lords with the nastiest reputations attract the most 
powerful heroes, while the weaker heroes target less threaten-
ing dungeons. A dungeon lord who is particularly evil may at-
tract a paladin, the most powerful adventurer of all. After four 
rounds of Building, you must defend your dungeon.
Combat also lasts 4 rounds. In each round, the adventurers try 
to conquer one space of the player’s dungeon. The player uses 
the traps and monsters aquired during Building to eliminate 
the adventurers as quickly as possible, before they conquer too 
much of his or her dungeon.
After the First Year’s Combat, the game enters the Second Year, 
which also has Building and Combat. 
The adventurers in the Second Year are more pow-
erful, probably thanks to some mysterious ritual 
called level-upping. 
Scoring
After the Second Year’s Combat, players score points. The one 
with the highest score wins.
	 	
Overview of Play
 Cost 
The monster’s (or ghost’s) 
wages, which must be paid 
when hiring and again on 
Pay Day. (This is not rel-
evant to Combat Training.)
 Abilities
What the monster (or 
ghost) can do in Combat.
You call that a summary? This is a summary: build, 
fight, build, fight, score. That’s all there is to it.
-2-

We will use Ministry-approved training dungeons for Combat Training. They look almost like real dungeons and you can find one on the back of each player’s Dungeon 
Board. Even if you have fewer than 4 players, you should use all 4 training dungeons – each gives a different training scenario. On each training dungeon, set up the 
monsters (or ghosts), traps, and adventurers depicted.
Let your friends set up the boards themselves. It will 
go quicker and they’ll get to know the cards and tiles. 
Make sure they understand that these are just ex-
amples. In the game, they will make the decisions about which 
monsters (or ghosts) to hire and how many traps to buy.
All Trap Cards have 
the same back. There 
is only one deck for 
both Years.
The back of the Adventurer Tile 
indicates whether it appears in 
the First Year (silver) or the Sec-
ond Year (gold). In Combat 
Training, we will just look at the 
First Year adventurers.
Adventurer Tile
Trap Card
	 	
Training Dungeons
Cursed 
Ring
Pay 1 Gold. Each 
adventurer takes 
1 damage. Skip the 
Conquering Step 
(and fatigue) this round.
“I saw it first!” “But 
I grabbed it first!” “Well, 
I have the biggest axe.”
 Hit points
The amount of damage the 
adventurer can take before 
being eliminated.
 Treasury / Pantry
There usually isn’t much in a training dungeon, 
but some of the training scenarios require a 
Food Token 
 or a Gold Token 
Damage Counters 
Damage Counters are used to keep track of damage done to 
adventurers. Keep some within reach. When an adventurer takes 
damage, put that many Damage Counters on the Adventurer Tile. 
If the number of Damage Counters matches or exceeds the adven-
turer’s hit points (red number) the adventurer is eliminated and 
the tile should be moved to the Prison.
Description 
 
Effect of the trap, including 
any special costs. Some 
traps have a different 
strength or cost in the 
Second Year. We will just 
ignore these Second Year 
values in Combat Training.
 Illustration
The glyph 
Two adventurers with the same 
glyph are equally powerful. Adven-
turers with more complex glyphs 
are more powerful. 
The power level is also indicated 
by the background shade - lighter 
adventurers are more powerful.
Entrance with pre-drawn adventurers 
A party is made up of three adventurers who march in a specific order. They work to-
gether to last as long as they can in your dungeon. Warriors go first and protect the rest. 
Thieves keep those in front from getting harmed by traps. If the party is attacked, the 
priests heal them up after battle. Priority is given to protecting 
the first adventurer. If the first adventurer is eliminated, the next 
in line becomes the first adventurer.
In the four training scenarios, you will use every silver-backed 
Adventurer Tile except for the wizards.
 Battleground 
This depicts the steps of Battle, which will be 
explained below. This also has places for you to 
put the monsters (and ghosts) and traps you use 
during battle.
Prison 
This starts empty, but you hope to fill it with eliminated 
adventurers.
Scenario number 
Go through the training scenarios in order. The lower 
numbered ones are simpler.
Small dungeon with three tunnels 
Put 3 Tunnel Tiles on the indicated squares, dark side up. The adventurers will try 
to conquer these tiles (and flip them over so that the light side is up). Your success 
can be measured by how few they conquer.
 Your combat options 
	
Find the Trap Cards and Mon-
ster (or Ghost) Tiles with the 
corresponding illustrations 
and put them here, face up.
Name of the 
trap 
 
 Special abilities
These indicate the adventurer’s 
profession:
 Warriors go in front.
 Thieves disarm traps.
 Priests heal.
 Wizards cast spells.
Minion Figures 
Minions are essential to the proper 
function of any dungeon.
-3-

Combat Round
The Battleground illustrates the steps of Battle. Take a Minion 
Figure and put it on the first space: Planning. After completing 
each step, advance the figure to the next one.
Planning
First you decide where the battle will be 
fought. In the beginning, this is simple: the 
adventurers always attack the tile closest to 
the entrance. Put the Adventuring Party 
Marker on that Tunnel Tile to mark where 
the battle is being fought.
Next you decide which traps and 
monsters (or ghosts) to use. In a 
tunnel, you can only use 1 trap 
and 1 monster.
Put the Trap Card and the 
Monster (or Ghost) Tile on the 
indicated spaces of the Battle-
ground.
You can also choose to use a trap with no monster (or ghost), a 
monster (or ghost) with no trap, or nothing at all.
Traps
In this step, your trap goes off. 
The card explains what the trap 
does. Usually it deals some 
damage. Discard the Trap Card 
after using.
The following examples each use one of the adven-
turing parties from the training dungeons. You 
should use these adventurers to explain combat to 
your friends, borrowing traps and monsters from other 
training dungeons if you need to. 
Example 1:
Fire 
Wall
Each adventurer 
takes 1 damage. 
The last one takes 
1 more.
“Ha! We’ll run right 
through it! Ow!” 
“Ow!” “Owwwww!”
Put 1 Damage Counter on each warrior and 2 on the priest 
in the rear. 
Example 2:
Put 3 Damage Counters on the first warrior. This eliminates 
him. Move him to the Prison and put the Damage Counters 
back in the bank.
Thieves have the ability to reduce the damage from your traps. 
For each 
 symbol, they reduce the damage by 1. Damage to 
the adventurers in front is reduced first.
 
Example 3: 
The Rolling Stone does 3 damage, but the thief reduces it by 2. 
Put 1 Damage Counter on the warrior.
Example 4:
Fire 
Wall
Each adventurer 
takes 1 damage. 
The last one takes 
1 more.
“Ha! We’ll run right 
through it! Ow!” 
“Ow!” “Owwwww!”
The Wall of Fire does 1 damage to the warrior and 1 to the 
priest, but the thief can prevent both of these. That is the limit 
of her ability, so she gets 2 Damage Counters.
The thief’s damage-reduction ability can be used again each 
round until she is eliminated. If there are multiple thieves in the 
party, their abilities are cumulative. The ability only works on 
damage, however. If the trap has other effects, the thief cannot 
prevent them.
Example 5:
All 3 points of damage are prevented by the thieves. No one 
gets any Damage Counters.
Example 6:
Trap 
Door
takes 2 damage. 
Skip the Conquering 
Step (and fatigue) this 
round.
“He vanished!” 
“How’d he do that?” 
“Shut up and throw 
me a rope.”
Both points of damage are prevented, but the special effect (skip 
Conquering) still applies.
 
Monsters (and Ghosts)
Monsters (and ghosts) at-
tack after traps go off. If 
you have more than one, 
you can decide the order 
in which they attack.
Some monsters have two 
ways to attack divided by 
a horizontal line. You get 
to decide between them.
These examples use the monster’s attack above the 
horizontal line.
	 	
Combat takes place over several rounds. Each round, the adventurers try to conquer one tile of your dungeon. 
You try to use your monsters (and ghosts) and traps to do enough damage to eliminate them.
-4-

There are three types of attack:
 Standard Attack
The monster attacks the first adventurer and deals the indi-
cated amount of damage. All the damage is applied to the first 
adventurer even if damage exceeds hit points. 
If you use the witch’s standard attack for 4, she does 4 damage 
to the first in line. The warrior already has 2 Damage Coun-
ters, so 4 is more than enough to eliminate him. The excess 
damage does not go to the next in line.
 Attack Anyone
This is like a standard attack except you get to choose the tar-
get.
If you use the vampire to attack anyone for 3, you can choose 
to eliminate the first adventurer or the last or to give the one in 
the middle 3 Damage Counters.
 Attack Everyone
The monster does the indicated amount of damage to each 
adventurer.
If you use the slime to attack everyone for 1, each adventurer 
will get 1 Damage Counter. This is enough to eliminate the 
warrior.
 
After attacking, the monster (or ghost) is automatically 
knocked out. Return the Monster (or Ghost) Tile back to its 
lair face down. It will not be usable in later rounds. However, 
you don’t lose it forever. It turns face up again after the last 
round of Combat.
Monsters (and ghosts) can never win. This is the law 
of the dungeon. Theirs not to reason why, theirs but 
to do and die... or at least be knocked out.
As a final service to their dungeon lord, knocked out mon-
sters fall face down so that they can easily be distinguished 
from those who are simply relaxing face up.
Healing
Now the priests step in. If any adventurer was 
attacked, the priests will heal the party. But if no 
monster (or ghost) damaged the party this 
round, the priests do not heal, even if the adven-
turers have damage from traps or from previous 
rounds. 
Priests hate their roles in adventuring parties and 
do not get along with the others. With lawyers, 
however, they are quite chummy. They take the Ad-
venturer’s Code literally when it says, “Priests are required to 
heal the party after battle to the best of their abilities.”
See? “After battle.” No battle, no healing.
Each priest removes 1 Damage Counter from the party for each 
 symbol on his Adventurer Tile. At this time, it does not 
matter whether the damage was from monsters (or ghosts) or 
traps. They simply heal all they can, beginning with the adven-
turer in front. A priest will heal himself, if all those in front of 
him have no damage.
Adventurers that were eliminated remain eliminated. The 
priests cannot repair the damage that eliminated them. 
Example 1:
The troll attacks and does 3 damage to the warrior. The priest 
heals one damage during Healing, so the warrior is left with 2 
Damage Counters.
Example 2:
The vampire attacks the thief and eliminates her. During 
Healing, nothing happens because neither of the remaining 
adventurers have damage.
 
Example 3:
The party is already wounded when the goblin attacks. It does 
2 damage to the first priest. During Healing, the priests heal 
4 damage. This removes both Damage Counters from the first 
priest, the Damage Counter from the thief, and one of the 
Damage Counters from the last priest. In this case, it would 
have been better not to have sent the goblin.
Fatigue and Conquering
Now the adventurers try to conquer the indi-
cated tile. 
But it is not that simple. They have to deal with 
darkness, rats, damp drafts, and uneven footing. 
Sometimes they argue about which way to go, who 
should carry the lantern, or whether the proper term is “side 
passage” or “T-shaped intersection”. Just walking through a 
dungeon can be quite exhausting.
Before the party can conquer the tile, they accumulate fatigue. 
This is indicated by the two Damage Counters illustrated for 
this step.
The Damage Counters both go to the adventurer in front (be-
cause he’s under the most stress). Unlike all the other damage 
in the game, fatigue damage is dealt 1 point at a time. So if the 
first adventurer is eliminated by fatigue, the next adventurer in 
line will get what is left.
If all adventurers have been eliminated after accumulating fa-
tigue (or earlier) then Combat is over and the adventurers do 
not conquer that tile.
However, if even one adventurer is left after assigning fatigue, 
the tile is conquered. Flip it over so that it is light side up. The 
next battle will be fought over the next tile.
Later Rounds
After Conquering, the round is over. The next round begins 
and has the same rules. Do not forget that used traps are dis-
carded and used monsters are turned face down, so they will 
not be able to aid you in later rounds. Combat continues un-
til all adventurers are eliminated or until all dungeon tiles are 
conquered.
-5-

Describe the capabilities of the monsters and let 
your friends read the Trap Cards. Then ask them to 
demonstrate how they would handle each of the 
given scenarios.
Make sure they move the Adventuring Party Marker and ac-
curately describe the action in each step. If someone doesn’t 
know what to do, let the others help, but make sure that he 
or she does his or her own battle calculations.
Monsters Used
These are the monsters (and ghost) used in the training sce-
narios:
Troll
The troll has a standard attack of 3. If you pay 1 
Food, it can attack for 4 instead. 
Goblin
The goblin has a standard attack of 2. If it elimi-
nates the first adventurer it gets to attack the 
next one for 1.
Witch
The witch has either a standard attack of 4 or 
two attacks of 1 on anyone. These two attacks 
can be on the same adventurer or on two dif-
ferent adventurers.
Ghost
The ghost can attack anyone for 2 except for 
the first adventurer. The ghost is not a monster, 
so limits on the number of monsters do not ap-
ply to it. In a tunnel you can send one monster 
and as many ghosts as you want.
Vampire
The vampire can attack anyone who is not a 
priest. He can either attack for 3, or make an 
eat-and-run attack for 2. In the second case, he 
is not knocked out. He returns to the Monster 
Lair face up, ready to be used in a later round.
Slime
The slime can either attack everyone for 1 or it 
can slurp around their ankles and hold them 
in place. This latter effect is not an attack, so it 
does not trigger Healing. It has the special effect that the adven-
turers do not conquer the tile (and do not accumulate fatigue) 
that round. Whether you use the slime’s attack or its effect, it is 
knocked out afterwards.
Solutions
You should try to find the solutions to the training 
scenarios yourselves. Then read this part to see if 
you got it right.
Each scenario has a solution in which the adventurers only 
conquer one tile. If your friends don’t find the optimal solu-
tion, it doesn’t really matter. The goal is just to get them to 
understand the mechanics of Combat.
First Scenario
The simplest solution is to 
use the Rolling Stone and the 
troll in round 1, paying the 
troll 1 Food to use his bigger 
attack. This eliminates both 
warriors. The priest has no one to heal, and he takes 2 damage 
during Conquering. The trap is discarded, and the troll is 
turned face down, which leaves us with the goblin. It can easily 
eliminate the priest next round. Or we can leave the priest 
alone. Without an attack, he will not heal and then he will be 
eliminated by fatigue before he can conquer the next tile.
An even more efficient solution is to use the troll’s free at-
tack, after the trap eliminates the first warrior. This will not be 
enough to eliminate the second warrior, and the priest will heal 
one point of damage, but the warrior will then be eliminated 
by fatigue. To eliminate the priest in the next round, attack 
with the goblin for 2. Even though the priest heals one, he is 
still eliminated by fatigue before he can conquer the second 
tile. The result is the same except that we have saved one Food 
Token for later.
Second Scenario
It looks like the trap can take 
out the first adventurer, but 
the thieves will reduce the 
damage down to 1. (“Hey, put 
that down! It could be poi-
soned... You already had a bite, didn’t you?”)
Instead, let’s save the trap for next round and just send the 
witch and the ghost. The witch can eliminate the warrior, but 
we’ll send the ghost into battle first. We want the ghost to at-
tack the thief in the middle and it won’t be able to do that if the 
thief is the first in line. 
Then the warrior is eliminated by the witch, and the wounded 
thief falls from fatigue. We are left with just the last thief for 
round 2. Now we prepare the Poisoned Meal. Even though she 
knows she shouldn’t, the thief takes a little bite (1 damage). She 
is eliminated by fatigue before she can conquer the second tile. 
Third Scenario
These 
adventurers 
are 
tougher. Has our vampire bit 
off more than it can chew? It 
can’t attack the priest, so 
we’ll save the Pendulum for 
him. But for that to be effective, we need to get rid of the thief.
In round 1 we send the vampire and the Cursed Ring. The ring 
only damages the thief. (She explains to the others that the ring 
is a trap and they shouldn’t fight over it, but in the scuffle she 
gets hit in the eye.) The vampire could eliminate the thief now, 
but then it would be knocked out. Instead we have the vampire 
attack for 2 and return face up. The priest heals 1, so the thief 
ends the round with 2 Damage Counters. The ring prevents 
Conquering and the adventurers take no damage from fatigue.
The second round is fought in the same place. We just send 
the vampire to finish off the thief. The vampire returns face up. 
The priest has no one to heal. During Conquering , the warrior 
takes 2 damage from fatigue.
In round 3, we finally send the Pendulum with the vampire. 
The pendulum does 3 damage to the priest. We’ll use the vam-
pire’s bigger attack on the warrior. This eliminates the warrior. 
It also knocks out the vampire, but that doesn’t matter, as we 
shall see. The priest heals 1 damage. Even though his damage 
was from the trap, he gets to heal because the vampire dam-
aged the warrior. The priest is eliminated by fatigue before he 
can conquer the second tile.
Fourth Scenario
Let’s be patient. We’ll hold 
back the slime and just send 
out the Wall of Fire. The 
weak thief can only reduce 
damage to the first priest. 
The thief takes 1 damage, and the priest in the rear takes 2. The 
priests heal no one because nothing attacked. The party con-
quers the first tile after the first priest accumulates 2 damage 
from fatigue.
In the second round, we send the Anti-Magic Dart and the 
Slime. Because of the thief, the dart does not wound the priest 
that we target, but its special effect (skip Healing) still works. 
The slime attacks and does 1 damage to everyone. This elimi-
nates the first priest. The thief and the priest are each 1 point 
away. The priest cannot heal because of the dart. During Con-
quering, the first point of fatigue eliminates the thief and the 
second point eliminates the priest before they can conquer the 
second tile.
	 	
Training Scenarios
At this moment, we can look at the scenarios in the prepared training dungeons.
-6-

 Central Board
Everyone needs to be able to reach the 
components on the Central Board. It should 
be in the middle of the table. 
Rules for two or three players will be 
denoted like this. Roman numeral indicates 
whether the rule applies to two or to three. For a 
four-player game, just ignore text like this.
Yeah, I know what you’re thinking: “Hey, I’m a hard-
core gamer. I can handle the full rules.” Well guess 
what? This game is designed for hard-core gamers. 
And we still want you to start with the simpler rules. You 
gotta learn to irk before you can torment, kid.
My colleague is undoubtedly correct. Even in a 
simplified game, there are many factors to keep track 
of, and overlooking even one of these can lead to 
serious consequences from which you might not be able to 
recover. For a beginner, the simplified game is difficult enough.
The Ministry of Dungeons warns that playing the full game 
with beginners leads to immorality in the form of unpaid 
taxes due to lack of funds.
Rules
	 	
Setup
	 	
First Game
 Distant Lands Board
The Distant Lands Board can be off to the side some-
where. It holds cards that are not currently in use.
 
 
Non-Player Dungeon Boards
In a two- or three-player game, take the remaining Dungeon Boards, fold them 
and place them this side up.
Progress Board 
 
(Building side up)
The Progress Board needs to be where 
everyone can see it, but only one player 
needs to be able to reach it.
Dungeon Boards 
Each player has his or her own Dungeon 
Board. 
Starting Player Token 
Before the first game, put the happy face sticker on the big 
wooden disk to create the Starting Player Token.
The nicest player gets the Starting Player Token. 
(Or you can choose the starting player randomly.)
Combat in Rooms
So far, we have only covered combat in tunnels. But some dun-
geon tiles can be rooms. There are 2 differences:
•	 You can send up to 2 monsters into battle (along with any 
number of ghosts). When it is time for them to attack, you 
choose the order in which they do so.
•	 You can use 1 trap, just as you can in a tunnel, but in a 
room you must pay 1 Gold.
Setting a trap in a tunnel is simple. The adventurers 
have nowhere else to go. In a room, however, you 
need to trick them into standing in just the right 
place. This can be accomplished by putting some gold there.
Here’s a mental picture for you: In a tunnel you’ve 
got a trap door and a monster with a club waiting 
on the other side. In a room, you have a little trea-
sure chest underneath a suspended 5-ton weight. There’s still 
room for 2 monsters.
And you can always have as many ghosts as you want because 
they can just stand inside the walls.
Everything else works the same as it does in tunnels. If a Room 
Tile is conquered, flip it over so the back side is up.
Training Scenario
Set up the first training scenario again. 
What if it were being fought in a room? 
Take a Room Tile and put it face up on 
the square by the entrance. 
You can probably figure out that if you 
get to use one trap and two monsters, 
you can win in the first round, but it 
will cost you 1 Food (for the troll’s big-
ger attack) and 1 Gold (for baiting a 
trap).
The rules will focus on a four-player game. The three-player game is similar, with similar strategies. 
The two-player game has a few additional differences and the strategy is a bit more difficult. We recommend 
playing your first game with three or four players.
Set up the game boards, tokens, figures, tiles, and cards as illustrated.
The rules for your first game are slightly simplified. Later in the book are rules for the full version of the game.
-7-

Central Board
Note: Tokens, Tunnel Tiles, and Imp Figures are not intended 
to be limited. If any bank runs out, represent the component 
with a suitable substitute.
The town is best known for the Adventurers’ 
Academy, where pudgy gray-haired humans give 
lectures on how to explore a dungeon. Because 
most of their lectures consist of stories about how much bet-
ter things were back when they were adventurers, it is pos-
sible to summarize the entire year’s curriculum on four small 
cards.
 Imp 
Figure 
The Imp Figure 
Bank also holds 
three Troll Figures. 
Trolls are the only 
monsters who like to 
hang out with imps.
 Trap 
Cards Deck
Shuffle all the Trap 
Cards and place the 
deck face down on the 
Central Board.
Food 
Token 
Gold Token 
 The Underground 
Tavern
Spaces for available Monster 
(or Ghost) Tiles.
 Bargain 
Basement 
Room Store
Spaces for available 
Room Tiles.
 Evilometer
All players’ Evil Counters begin on the indicated space. 
In a two-player game, an Evil Counter in one of the 
non-player colors should be placed here, as well. (It 
doesn’t matter which color.)
If a card or a rule tells you to “gain 1 Evil”, you move your 
Evil Counter one space up the Evilometer, toward the evil face 
. If you are told to “lose 1 Evil”, you move your Evil Counter 
one space down, toward the happy face 
The Evilometer measures how the locals view the aspiring dun-
geon lords. Doing evil actions will move you up the Evilometer. 
Peaceful gestures and propaganda can be used to move your-
self down. The most powerful adventurers attack the players 
highest on the Evilometer. Pay special attention to the space 
with the paladin icon. If your reputation gets this evil, you had 
better be prepared to deal with the paladin.
Now, I understand that many of you wish to be-
come dungeon lords purely for the fun of being 
evil. And this is a worthy cause. However, I must 
caution you that an evil reputation is only fun if you have the 
monsters and the traps to back it up. 
 Paladins
Both paladins go on the paladin space, face up. The darker one 
with the silver glyph is on top. The lighter one with the gold 
glyph will not be used until the Second Year.

While other adventurers are meeting, plotting, and 
drinking in the taverns, the paladin sets up his tent 
outside of town and sweeps the countryside with 
his stern, watchful gaze. (In other words, he drinks alone.) If 
ever he should sense great evil, he will don his holy armor and 
stride boldly to battle. (If he only senses a little evil, he just 
sits around boldly polishing his armor.)
-8-
Tunnel Tile 
 Combat Cards 
for the First Year
Shuffle the 9 Combat Cards 
with the silver sword. Choose 4 
randomly and place them face 
down on the town space of 
the Central Board. Return 
the other 5 cards to the 
box without looking at 

Distant Lands Board
Components which have not yet been used, as well as components which 
have left the game, are placed on the Distant Lands Board.
Progress Board (Building side up)
-9-
 Rounds and Steps
Building has 4 rounds: winter, spring, summer, and fall. Each 
round has several phases, represented by the spaces on the 
board. (A few of the phases are skipped in the first round, so 
winter is shorter.) The Progress Marker is moved after each 
phase to keep track of the current phase and round.
 Adventurer Spaces
Adventurers arrive in spring, summer, and fall. Adventurer 
Tiles are placed here on one phase, and then, a few phases later, 
they are assigned to the players’ dungeons. At the beginning of 
the game, these spaces are empty.
Monster Stacks 
Separate the Monster (or Ghost) Tiles 
into two groups according to their 
backs and mix each group up. Stack the 
gold-backed tiles on the indicated space. 
Then stack the silver-backed tiles on top 
of them.
 Room Stacks
Separate the Room Tiles 
into two groups accord-
ing to their backs and mix 
each group up. Stack the 
gold-backed tiles on the 
indicated space. Then stack 
the silver-backed tiles on 
top of them.
 Adventurer 
Stacks
Separate the Adventurer Tiles 
into two groups according 
to their backs and mix each 
group up. Put the stacks on 
the indicated spaces.
 Combat Cards 
for the Second Year
Shuffle the Combat Cards for the Second Year and choose 
four of them at random to place, face down, on the Distant 
Lands Board. Return the rest to the box, without looking at 
 Discard Piles
Cards and tiles that leave the game do not come back. Put 
them on the indicated discard piles. Tiles should be discarded 
face up, but Trap Cards are kept face down.
 Damage Counter Bank
 Some of us like to call this the “Blood Bank”. The 
little cubes represent the life force flowing through 
the veins of the adventurers. We put them here, 
though, because they will not fit inside the cardboard tiles.
Events
The three Event Tiles are shuffled and 
placed face down on the indicated 
spaces of the spring, summer, and fall 
rounds.
Progress Marker
This can sit next to the Progress Board dur-
ing Setup. When the game begins, place it 
on the first space.

Construction Site 
with three Tunnel Tiles
Tunnel Tiles are placed on the three indicated squares, 
dark side up.
Ah, the Construction Site. A few thousand cubic me-
ters of mountain in which to dig, tunnel, and build. 
What can we say? Inside every dungeon lord, there 
is a little boy just waiting to get out. In some cases, literally.
Each player chooses a color. In your color you should have 
a Dungeon Board, 3 Minion Figures, an Adventuring Party Marker, 
an Evil Counter (the cube), 8 Orders Cards, and two Overview 
Cards that illustrate scoring. Place your Evil Counter on the starting 
space of the Evilometer. (See Central Board, previous page.) 
The other components are placed according to this illustration.
Player Board
-10-
Entrance 
This is where the adventurers will gather over the 
course of the year. No one will dare to venture in 
alone, but as soon as there are three of them, you 
must call your monsters to arms. 
Yes, there is a fourth space, somewhat larger. For now, let’s 
just hope this stays empty.
 Monster Lair
This is where you keep monsters (and ghosts) so 
that your dungeon will be well protected. (Also they 
keep you from getting lonely.)
 Trap Storage
Whether you build them or buy them, make sure 
your traps are well-maintained. Nothing is more 
embarrassing than having a spring-loaded dart 
launch itself with a rusty squeak.
 Spaces for Three Orders
Your workplace: tidy, clean, and appropriately lit. 
From here you issue the orders that lead your dun-
geon to growth and prosperity.
 Battleground
You already saw this in Combat Training. There’s a 
few new symbols here, but we’ll explain those later.
See - you get three minions, three tunnels, three food, 
three gold, and three imps. Easy to remember, isn’t it?
Inaccessible Orders
Shuffle your deck of Orders Cards and choose 2 at random 
to place here, face up.
Office with three 
Minion Figures 
 
Your loyal minions, at your service. Without us, 
nothing would get done.
 Dead Letter Office
This is where we keep notices of overdue taxes. Let 
us hope we do not need to use it.
 Orders Cards
Take the remaining six cards into your hand.	
 Overview Cards
Areas of your Dungeon
Open to the Public:
Areas of your Dungeon 
Closed to the Public:
Highest on Evilometer
Most rooms (conquered and unconquered)
Most tunnels (conquered and unconquered)
Most monsters (not ghosts)
Most imps (not trolls)
Most food, gold, and unused traps
Fewest conquered dungeon tiles
Titles
The ord of Dark Deeds
The ord of Halls
The ord of mps
The ord of Riches
+1
+5
–2
–3
?
+3
(or +2 in two-player game)
(or +1 in two-player game)
Monster (not ghost)
Unconquered room
mprisoned adventurer
mprisoned paladin
Conquered dungeon tile
Unpaid tax
Point-scoring rooms
Exclusive title
Shared title

-11-
Pantry with three 
Food Tokens 
Whether it is bread, cheese, mushrooms, or meat, 
dungeon dwellers always eat green.
 Treasury with three 
Gold Tokens
This is where you keep your gold. The usual way to 
acquire gold is to mine it in your tunnels, but there 
are other ways. Some of them are even legal.
Imp Den with three 
Imp Figures 
Here is where your imps will sleep when they are 
not working. Demonologists classify imps as lesser 
demons, but really their only supernatural power is 
that they actually like to work.
 Prison
This is where you keep defeated adventurers. Here 
they will slowly languish, tormented by the fate that 
awaits them: At the end of the game, as an example 
to all who would dare trespass in your dungeons, you score 
 Spaces for Orders
Leftovers
After setup, everything should be on the table except the 
following:
The 5 First-Year and 5 Second-
Year Combat Cards that you 
returned to the box.
The Overview Cards for any 
colors without players.
One Evil Counter, if it is a two- or three-player game. 
(In a two-player game, one of the non-player Evil 
Counters is placed on the Evilometer.)
Embezzlement
Each player loses half of his or 
her gold (rounded down).
Nine Special Event Cards, which you 
will not be using in your first game. 
(Just put them back in the box.)
Twenty Item Tokens. (These should be put back 
in the box. Once you are experienced dungeon 
lords, you can go to www.czechgames.com to 
find rules for a game variant that uses them.)
Non-Player Dungeon Boards
According to Ministry of Dungeons regulations, 
dungeon lord license tests must always be done in 
groups of four. If there are fewer applicants, the 
Ministry issues temporary building permits to dungeon lords 
in neighboring regions. They send their minions into our 
town, which drives up prices. Now when you consider that 
these interlopers do not even pay taxes...
 [Edited for brevity. -MoD]
You will need the Dungeon Boards, Action Cards, and Minion 
Figures of all four colors, even in a two- or three-player game. 
In a three-player game, choose a player to handle the 
non-player Dungeon Board.
In a two-player game, each player handles one non-
player Dungeon Board.
 Minion Figures
 Inaccessible Orders
Shuffle the non-player Orders Cards and deal out three at ran-
dom, face up.
 Orders Cards Deck
Deck containing the remaining 5 Orders Cards.

Put the Progress Marker on the first space of the Progress 
Board, as shown.
After each phase, you will advance the Progress Marker to the 
next space. The Year is divided into 4 rounds: winter, spring, 
summer, and fall. Each has the same phases, except that winter 
has no Event or Adventurers Phase.
Get someone smart to take responsibility for mov-
ing the Progress Marker and keeping everyone up 
to speed.
New Round Phase
It is the small efforts that distinguish a gentleman’s 
gentleman. My master awakes to find a newly 
pressed pair of hoof-warmers at his bedside and a 
fresh cup of hot lava waiting for him on the breakfast table. 
The morning mail is sorted into four piles: dungeon room 
catalogs, résumés of monsters seeking employment, notices 
from the Ministry of Dungeons, and the day’s edition of The 
Adventurous Times, a do-gooder tabloid that frequently 
publishes interviews with adventurers who are planning to 
plunder our area.
Take 3 tiles from the top of the Monster Stack on the Distant 
Lands Board and place them face up in the Underground Tav-
ern on the Central Board. Similarly, draw 2 tiles from the Room 
Stack and place them in the Bargain Basement Room Store. 
Any monsters or rooms that were left on the Central Board 
from a previous round should be placed in the appropriate dis-
card piles. Each round there will be a completely new selection.
In the first three rounds, you also get a trouble forecast – a 
look at next round’s event and adventurers. (In fall, there is no 
forecast because it is the last season of the year.)
Next Round’s Event
Turn up the Event Tile for the next round. This 
event does not occur immediately. It depicts 
what will happen at the end of the next round. 
This gives you two rounds to prepare. 
Events will be described below in the Event Phase.
Next Round’s Adventurers
Draw four Adventurer 
Tiles and place them, in 
order, on the 4 spaces 
for next round’s adven-
turers. Then rearrange 
them so that the weak-
er adventurers (darker, with simpler glyphs) are on the left and 
the more powerful adventurers (lighter, with more complex 
glyphs) are on the right. Tiles with the same glyph and shade 
should stay in order.
In a two- or three-player game, you only draw 
3 adventurers.
If all the adventurers have the same glyph, place the last one 
drawn at the bottom of the stack and draw a new one. Keep 
doing this until you get a different glyph. Then re-order the 
adventurers.
Orders Phase
Now look at the Central Board. In the middle are 8 places you 
can send your minions. Each place has 3 spaces, which repre-
sent slightly different ways of accomplishing the task you order.
The proper dungeon lord does not venture out, and 
thus he retains the image of a nameless menace, a 
massive figure with eyes like hot coals glowing from 
within the darkness of a black hood. It would never do to let the 
townspeople start thinking of him as the boy next door. And so, 
his dark and twisted whims are realized by his minions.
Sometimes we are sent to visit human settlements on dark 
and stormy nights. There is an art to choosing the proper 
moment to knock. The opening of the door must coincide 
with a flash of lightning to illuminate one’s form, and then 
one has but a moment to hiss, “My masster seekss food,” be-
fore the words are punctuated with a roll of thunder. 
Standing in line at the Ministry of Dungeons requires other 
skills. As my master puts it, “Those useful bureaucrats are a 
joy in the neck.” [Quote slightly revised for stylistic reasons.]
And then there is the Underground, the town beneath the 
town. Whether in the charming tunnels of the outskirts or in 
the modernized downtown shopping complex, one can find 
many opportunities to enjoy the comforts of civilization. I 
mean “opportunities to serve one’s master”, of course. 
Selecting Orders
You begin the round with 6 Orders Cards in your hand. (Two 
inaccessible 
orders 
are 
face up on your Dungeon 
Board.) All players decide 
simultaneously. Choose 3 
orders and place them face 
down on the appropriate 
spaces of your Dungeon 
Board. The order you want 
carried out first should be 
on the left.
When you explain this part to your friends, have 
them do it. It’s just an example, so it doesn’t matter 
which cards they pick.
Revealing Orders
When everyone has placed all three orders, everyone turns 
their first card (the one on the left) face up. Beginning with 
the starting player, each player finds the place on the Central 
Board corresponding to the revealed order and places one of 
his or her Minion Figures on the first empty space (the one 
with the lowest number). You play in turn, clockwise around 
the table. If someone playing ahead of you has chosen the same 
place as you, your minion will have to go on the second space.
Then everyone reveals their second order. Again, play clockwise 
around the table, placing your second minion on the first unoc-
cupied space corresponding to your chosen action. (Some of 
the spaces may be occupied, either because of other players’ 
first orders or because of second orders played by those who go 
before you.)
Finally, everyone reveals their third card and places their third 
minion, according to the same rules.
Let your friends do it as you explain it. You can also 
re-arrange their cards to make interesting examples.
	 	
First Year
-12-

It is possible that when it is your turn to place a 
minion all three spaces will be occupied. In this 
case, you place the minion on the Orders Card 
instead. This indicates that he is unable to carry 
out the order.
It’s no fun to be shut out, but if you are, don’t come 
crying to me. You can see the other players’ inacces-
sible orders. If you choose a card that everyone else 
has available, you’d better play it early.
Executing Orders
The actions are always performed in the same order. You start 
with the Get Food action in the upper left corner and move 
from left to right along the top row. Then you do the actions in 
the second row, again from left to right.
At each place, the minions execute their orders beginning with 
the one on the shortest space. (Usually they act in the order in 
which they arrived – 
 – but when buying rooms 
or hiring monsters, they go in the opposite order, as explained 
below.) When it is your minion’s turn, you perform the indi-
cated action and return your Minion Figure to your Dungeon 
Board. Alternatively, you can decide not to perform that action 
and move your Minion Figure to your Orders Card to indicate 
that the order was not carried out.
Each space illustrates what you gain from that action. If there 
is no arrow 
, you get it for free. Usually, however, the 
action will have a cost which is indicated by the symbol to the 
left of the arrow. If you pay that cost, you get the thing the 
arrow points to.
If the cost is gold 
 or food 
, you pay it by taking the 
indicated number of Food or Gold Tokens from your Dungeon 
Board and returning them to the bank. If you do not want to 
pay or cannot pay, then you cannot use the action. In this case, 
move your Minion Figure to the Orders Card to indicate that 
the order was not carried out.
You must pay the full cost or nothing at all. You cannot pay 
part of the cost to get part of the reward. You cannot pay dou-
ble the cost to use the action twice.
If a player does not use an action, the space remains unused. 
The other Minion Figures do not move up. They stay where 
they are.
Sometimes the cost of an action is paid for with your reputa-
tion 
. This means that you move your Evil Counter one 
space up the Evilometer toward the evil face 
 (unless you 
are already at the top). Two evil faces mean that you move up 
two spaces.
Description Of Actions
Get Food
The first minion to reach the village can buy food 
with gold.
After that, the villagers won’t sell any more. They 
claim they need it for themselves. Nonsense. The minion sim-
ply explains how much his master desires this food and what 
will happen to the village if he does not get it. The villagers 
will hand their food over promptly. 
Threats get the third minion nowhere. However, if he follows 
through on those threats, he can find among the ruins of 
the village not only food, but also the gold paid by the first 
minion. 
The village is the main source of food in the game. You pay for 
it either with Gold or with reputation, depending on which 
space your minion is on.
Improve Reputation
The first minion heads for the Adventurers’ Acade-
my. In addition to renewing acquaintances among 
the students and faculty, he gains valuable insight 
into which spells are currently en vogue among the wizards.
The second minion wanders through the slums, discussing 
social responsibility with the poor. For example: “Why are the 
town’ss people in ragss? That makess me ssad. Our masster 
takess good care of uss.”
To get the best of both worlds, the third minion will simply 
pay the local beggars to spread his master’s good name while 
he is renewing acquaintances at the Academy.
For each smiley face 
, you move your Evil Counter down 
the Evilometer one space (unless you are already at the bottom).
If you also get a chance to spy 
, you can look at any one 
of the four Combat Cards. (Usually, it is best to look at the top 
card, unless you spied it earlier in the round.) Be sure not to 
change the order of the cards.
In combat, you need every advantage you can get. 
Use your spies well.
Combat can go 4 rounds, so there are 4 Combat 
Cards. Most of the card explains the spell. You’ll have to wor-
ry about that if any wizards come after you. It’s a good idea to 
keep in mind what the spell does and whether it takes effect 
before your monsters attack
 or after 
Even if no wizards are coming, you’ll want to know how 
many fatigue points the adventurers will be getting for that 
round. That info is at the bottom of the card.
Oh, and try to remember which card 
you looked at in case you get another 
chance to spy later in the Year. If you 
keep looking at the same card every 
time, you’ll feel kinda dumb.
The picture illustrates the situation after all cards are revealed. All 4 players chose 
to Mine Gold, and Green’s minion is left sitting on the Orders Card because all 
spaces were occupied by the time he got there.
Don’t worry about the funny pic-
togram on this card. It only ap-
plies to the full game.
Word of 
Peace
Withdraw all your 
monsters or gain 
2 Evil.
So they come in peace, 
do they? Let’s give them 
a piece of this!
-13-

Dig Tunnels
At one time, dungeon lords just dug where they 
pleased until the countryside had more holes than 
Swiss cheese. Now they have to send their minions 
to the Ministry of Dungeons to get tunneling permits.
The first minion can get a permit for two imps to dig two 
tunnels.
The second minion can get a permit for three tunnels.
The third minion gets a permit for four tunnels, but Ministry 
regulations require that the work be supervised by a foreimp.
This action allows you to dig up to the indicated number of 
tunnels. Each tunnel will require one imp. You do not have to 
dig all of them. You can dig fewer tunnels and use fewer imps. 
If your minion is on the third space, you must use one imp as a 
foreimp, even if you only dig one tunnel. Place an Imp Figure on 
the dungeon entrance to indicate that he is supervising. (If you 
choose to dig no tunnels, you do not use a foreimp.)
If you choose to dig no tunnels, then move your Minion Figure 
to the Dig Tunnels Orders Card to indicate that the order was 
not carried out. 
Each tunnel is dug as follows: Draw 
one Tunnel Tile from the bank and 
place it (dark side up) adjacent to a 
previously placed Tunnel or Room Tile. 
Put an Imp Figure in the upper right 
corner of the new tile to indicate that 
the imp is working on the tunnel.
Your new tunnels can be placed adjacent to each other or they 
can connect with tunnels or rooms built earlier. For safety rea-
sons, the Ministry of Dungeons will not let your tunnels make 
a 2×2 square. This means that any 2×2 block of your Construc-
tion Site must have at least one square empty.
Mine Gold
You need a permit to mine the gold that you use to 
pay the taxes that are allocated to the office that 
issues you the permit.
Mining gold is analogous to digging tunnels. Your minion will 
get you a permit for 2, 3, or 4 imps. If you get the last permit, 
you need to put a foreimp at the dungeon entrance to super-
vise. As with digging tunnels, you can choose to use fewer than 
the maximum number of imps (which is especially useful if you 
are short on imps or unconquered tunnels).
Imps only mine gold in uncon-
quered tunnels (Tunnel Tiles 
that are dark-side-up). Imps 
cannot mine gold in rooms. To 
mine gold, place an Imp Figure 
in the middle of the tile and 
draw 1 Gold from the bank. 
Two imps cannot mine the same Tunnel Tile, but an imp can 
mine gold in a tunnel that was dug this round. Such a tile will 
have one imp in the upper right corner (the one that dug it) 
and one imp in the center (the one mining gold). 
Imps that were used during digging cannot be re-used during 
mining. Each imp only does one job per round.
Recruit Imps
Imps. You can find them in the outskirts of any 
subterranean town. They huddle together in small 
groups, mumbling in their strange tongue. They do 
the jobs that no one else will do, and they do them gladly.
The early minion can find an imp who is willing to come 
work for food.
One may also find a pair of imps willing to come work for 
more food... or for food and gold.
Regardless of how you recruit them, once the imps get to 
your dungeon they will be so happy with their work that they 
will not notice that you never feed them again.
To recruit imps, pay the indicated cost in Food (and possibly 
Gold) and take the indicated number of Imp Figures from the 
bank. New imps will not be available for digging or mining 
this round because those actions have already been dealt with, 
but they can still help out during the Production Phase, which 
comes later.
Buy Traps
A few enterprising imps have set up a trap work-
shop on the edge of town. Here is how enterprising 
imps do business: 
They offer their first trap for 1 Gold.
After selling their first trap, they are so excited that they of-
fer the second trap at a discount. Not until they make their 
sale do they realize that they are giving it away for nothing.
To recoup their losses, they offer a trap for 2 Gold, which 
no one will buy, so they decide to offer a “buy one, get one 
free” sale. 
After the sale, they close up shop. Running a business is stress-
ful work. To unwind, they build more traps. They wrap these 
in unlabeled bundles and immediately forget which is which.
To buy traps, pay the indicated amount of Gold (nothing if 
your minion is on space 
) and draw the indicated number 
of Trap Cards. You keep your Trap Cards face down on your 
Dungeon Board, but you can look at them at any time. 
Hire Monster (or Ghost)
Unlike the humble imps, the monsters (and ghosts) 
who gather in the Underground Tavern know what 
they are worth.
Each minion attempts to paint a grander picture of life in 
his master’s dungeon than the one before. The third minion 
trumps the other two by bringing a feast. (In underground 
taverns, no one cares if the patrons bring in food. In some 
cases, the patrons are food.)
Unlike the preceding actions, those who come later perform 
their actions earlier. Begin with the minion on space 
 (the 
shortest space) and proceed to 
 and then 
To hire a monster (or ghost) you choose one of the available 
Monster (or Ghost) Tiles and pay the cost indicated in the cor-
ner of the tile. Place your new monster (or ghost) face up in the 
Monster Lair of your Dungeon Board. 
Each player can hire one monster (or one ghost). The one 
whose minion is on space 
 must pay an extra food, but 
he or she gets to choose from all 3 available monsters (and 
ghosts). Those who go later must choose among the monsters 
(and ghosts) that are left.
If you can’t pay the cost on the Monster (or Ghost) Tile (or 
if you can’t pay the extra cost on space 
) you cannot use 
the action. 
-14-

When you hire a troll, take a Troll Token from the 
bank and put it in your Imp Den. If you lose the 
troll later, return the Troll Token to the bank.
Trolls live in the Monster Lair with the other mon-
sters (and ghosts) but they don’t like it there, so 
they often wander over to play with the imps. 
Sometimes they even help the imps out with their work.
Build Room
Although demand is high, room salesmen are al-
ways eager to make a deal.
Rooms can be purchased for a very reasonable sum. Dungeon 
lords looking for a bargain can wait and hope that something 
is left over for the quarterly inventory reduction sale.
As with hiring monsters, players buy rooms in reverse order, 
beginning with the minion on space 
. Each player may 
buy only 1 room, and only 2 rooms are available. The player on 
 does not have to pay anything, but if the players on 
spaces 
 buy rooms (for 1 Gold) then nothing will 
be left. (In this case the player moves his Minion Figure from 
 to the Build Room Orders Card to indicate that the 
order was not carried out.)
When you get a room, you replace one of your unconquered 
Tunnel Tiles with the Room Tile. The room must be placed 
according to the following limitations:
•	 A First Year room must be placed in the proper zone of 
the dungeon. Some rooms must be near the surface, some 
must be deep, some must be in the center, and some must 
be on the periphery. The zone is illustrated on the Room 
Tile. The light squares are the ones where the room is al-
lowed to be built.
•	 Two rooms cannot be adjacent. (But it is acceptable for two 
rooms to share a corner or to be connected by a Tunnel Tile.)
If you have no unconquered Tunnel Tiles on squares that meet 
the requirements, you cannot buy that room. 
A tunnel can be turned into a room even if it was newly dug 
earlier in the round. Gold cannot be mined in rooms, but a 
tunnel can be turned into a room even if gold was mined there 
earlier in the round. (Just put any imps from the Tunnel Tile 
in the corner of the new Room Tile to indicate that they have 
done a job this round.) 
Rooms bring points at the end of the game, and they give 
your imps and trolls a place to work, as explained below. Also, 
Combat in rooms is slightly different.
New tunnels can be attached to rooms as though the room 
were just another tunnel. (And you still are not allowed to fill 
up any 2×2 block with Tunnel and Room Tiles.)
After Executing Orders
The Orders Phase ends when all actions in all 8 places have 
been dealt with. Minions who carried out orders are returned 
to their Dungeon Boards. The others remain on the cards of 
the orders that they did not carry out.
You’ve probably already noticed that the minion 
who arrives second usually has an advantage over 
the minion who arrives first, and sometimes the 
minion who arrives third is in the best position of all. It de-
pends on what you’re after.
Once your fellow players figure out the game, they’ll start play-
ing the actions that help them the most. By looking at things 
from their point-of-view, you can guess what they will play 
and place your orders so that you get exactly what you want.
The Orders Phase 
with 3 Players
Before choosing orders, you need 
to choose orders for the non-player 
color. There should be 3 inaccessi-
ble orders on the non-player Dun-
geon Board. Shuffle the remaining 
5 cards and choose 3 at random 
to put on the non-player Dungeon 
Board, face up. Pick up the 3 inac-
cessible orders and put them back 
in the deck. You should end up with 
3 new, random Orders Cards on 
the non-player Dungeon Board and 
5 in the deck.
Take the 3 non-player Minion Fig-
ures and place them on space 
 
of the actions indicated by the new 
orders. The new Orders Cards 
should be moved to the spaces for 
inaccessible orders.
Then everyone chooses and reveals 
orders as described above. The 
spaces occupied by the non-player 
minions are off limits, so the first 
player there gets space 
 and the 
second player gets space 
. If 
all 3 players choose an order that 
was picked by the non-player color, 
then one of them will be shut out.
Play through the actions as de-
scribed above. When it comes time 
for a non-player minion action, 
simply return the Minion Figure 
to the non-player Dungeon Board. 
The Orders Phase 
with 2 Players
Before choosing orders, you need 
to choose orders for the non-
player colors. Each non-player 
Dungeon Board should have 
3 inaccessible Orders Cards. 
For the non-player color that you 
are in charge of, shuffle the 5 re-
maining Orders Cards and reveal 
2 at random.
Take 2 Minion Figures in this non-
player color and place them on 
 of the actions you just 
chose. If both non-player colors 
choose the same Orders Card, one 
will go on space 
 and the other 
will go on space 
. Each player 
will be left with a hand of 3 non-
player Orders Cards. When you 
choose your own orders, you will 
also choose a third order for your 
non-player color and place it face 
down next to the 2 already chosen 
this round.
Once both players have chosen or-
ders for themselves and the third 
order for their non-player colors, re-
veal the final non-player orders and 
put the remaining Minion Figures 
on space 
 of the indicated ac-
tions. If both players chose the same 
order, put one on space 
 and the 
other on space 
 of that action.
Hey, keep it straight. The first 2 cards are random 
and face up. Those minions go on space 
 (or 
 
 if orders double up). You get to choose the 
third card, and you keep it hidden until it is time to reveal 
actions. That minion goes on space 
 (or 
 if or-
ders double up). You can use that non-player order to bump 
your minion up to a better position or you can use it to block 
out your opponent. It’s up to you.
But don’t forget that 5 of those non-player orders are already 
face up on the table, so your opponent knows which 3 you 
are choosing from.
 
After orders are revealed, pick up 
the 3 non-player inaccessible or-
ders and put them in the deck with 
the 2 you did not use. This will 
leave 3 on the board, which you 
move into the spaces for inacces-
sible orders.
Spaces occupied by non-player 
minions are not available. Player 
minions go into the first unoccu-
pied space, if there is one.
-15-

Production and
Orders Retrieval
Phase
In this phase you can use your production rooms (even one that 
you built this round). You also get to take back 3 Orders Cards. 
To speed up game play, all players can do this simultaneously, 
but if someone wants to decide based on the actions of the 
other players, then you decide in order, beginning with the 
starting player and proceeding clockwise.
Production
Rooms that produce something indicate how many imps are 
required and what the imps will produce. If you have that many 
imps left in your Imp Den, you can move them to the room and 
take the indicated product from the bank. (Imps that mined 
gold or dug tunnels or supervised this round are not available 
for production.) Rooms are described in detail on the last page 
of this book.
A Troll Token can take the place of an Imp Figure during pro-
duction. However, trolls only help out in rooms. They cannot 
be used for digging tunnels or mining gold.
You can use multiple production rooms if you have them. How-
ever, in the First Year, it is only possible to use each room once 
per round.
You should try to get at least one room in the First 
Year. It makes sure your imps have something to do. 
Those little guys just love to work.
Orders Retrieval
This is also the phase in which you get some of your Orders 
Cards back.
•	 Take back the two inaccessible Orders Cards.
•	 Take back the Orders Card that you chose for the first po-
sition and move the other two up to the spaces for inacces-
sible orders, as indicated by the arrows on your Dungeon 
Board.
	
	
However, if you have an order that was not carried out (as in-
dicated by a Minion Figure on the Orders Card) you can take 
that card back instead of the one in the first position. In any 
case, you may only take back 1 of the 3 cards you chose for this 
round. The other 2 become inaccessible.
In this position, you must take back the two inaccessible orders: 
. You also get to take back either
(because 
it is in the first position) or 
 (because the Minion Figure 
indicates that it was not carried out). The other card and the 
 card move up to the spaces for inaccessible orders.
 The card you pick to be first will probably land your 
minion on the weakest space, but you get it back to 
play again next round. 
Event Phase
No events occur in the first round (winter) but the other three 
rounds have an Event Phase. Events are revealed at the begin-
ning of the round before they occur, so players have 2 rounds 
to prepare for them. After the event occurs, remove the Event 
Tile from the Progress Board.
The event applies to all players. If players must make a decision 
(how much tax to pay, whether to let monsters go) they decide 
in order, beginning with the starting player.
Each Year has the same 3 Event Tiles:
Pay Day
On Pay Day, each player must pay the wages of 
his or her monsters (and ghosts). This cost is 
given in the corner of the Monster (or Ghost) 
Tile.
It is important to take care of your monster’s (or 
ghost’s) basic needs. Some monsters require little. 
Goblins can get by on a sack of dried mushrooms, 
and slime can get by on just about anything. Trolls, on the 
other hand, will eat quite a bit more. Vampires do not eat, but 
... well, you have to let them go out from time to time. Ghosts 
need to haunt, and witches occasionally need a night off to 
spend with their covens. Such nocturnal activities are 
frowned upon by the local populace, so you can expect that a 
lot of vampires, ghosts, and witches will not earn you a cheer-
ful, sunny reputation.
If you are unable or unwilling to pay the cost of keeping a 
monster (or ghost), the monster (or ghost) will leave your dun-
geon. Discard the Monster (or Ghost) Tile to the Distant Lands 
Board. When a monster (or ghost) leaves you this way, you gain 
1 Evil. Move your Evil Counter one space up the Evilometer.
Try to hire monsters that you can actually pay. If 
you don’t pay them, they leave in a huff and ram-
page across the countryside, griping about your 
management style to anyone they don’t eat.
In this situation, you have to pay 2 Food Tokens and move 
your Evil Counter up 3 spaces. But if you do that, you will be 
so evil that the paladin will come after you.
You can’t avoid the paladin by letting the witch go. That would 
leave you paying 1 Food and 2 reputation, but you would 
also gain 1 Evil for letting the witch get away. The only way 
to avoid crossing that line is to let the vampire go. You would 
pay 2 Food and 1 reputation (move 1 space up), and then 
gain 1 Evil for letting the vampire go (move up 1 space more). 
Of course, if you are not afraid of the paladin, you can just pay 
for all three monsters.
Taxes
When taxes are due, each player must pay a tax 
based on the size of his or her dungeon. For 
every 2 dungeon tiles (tunnels and rooms) you 
pay 1 Gold. (Round up: 3 tunnels would cost 2 
Gold.)
Of course the Ministry taxes you whether the tiles are 
conquered or not. Surely you are not surprised?
For each Gold that you choose not to pay, the Ministry of Dun-
geons gives you a black mark. Actually, it’s a red mark – notices 
of past due taxes are written in blood. Take a Damage Counter 
and place it in the Dead Letter Office (to the right of your 
Minion Office). At the end of the game, each of these Damage 
-16-

Counters will cost you 3 points.
You choose how much to pay. Even if you have 
enough, you do not have to pay the full tax.
Sometimes it’s to your advantage not to pay the full 
tax. (And if any Ministry of Dungeons pencil pusher 
wants to edit or censor this, just remember that I 
can find you.) It’s hard to do anything without Gold, and it 
might be worth the 3 points to keep an extra coin around. 
Here’s some examples:
•	 When you need to buy food or reputation next round. 
(Mining Gold happens afterward.)
•	 When you can’t mine gold next round.
•	 In the last round, when you need to keep gold to pay for a 
trap in a room during Combat.
Special Events
This Event Tile has no effect in your first game. 
Special Event Cards are only used in the full 
game.
Adventurers Phase
Like Event Tiles, the Adventurer Tiles for spring, summer, and 
fall are revealed at the beginning of the previous round. In this 
phase, the adventurers are assigned to the players’ dungeons.
Each player will get one adventurer. Assign adventurers in 
order, beginning with the one on the left (with the simplest 
glyph). This one goes to the nicest dungeon lord, the one lowest 
on the Evilometer. Break ties according to play order: Among 
tied players, the starting player is nicest, the one on the start-
ing player’s left is next, and so on. The smiley face on the Start-
ing Player Token should help you remember this.
The next adventurer goes to the second nicest dungeon lord, 
and so on. The one on the far right (the most powerful) will go 
to the player highest on the Evilometer.
The one on the right may be the most powerful, but 
that doesn’t mean he’s the one most dangerous to 
you. If you are relying on traps, a weak thief might 
give you more trouble than a strong priest. On the other 
hand, if you rely on vampires, you’ll want those priests to stay 
away. You know you’re getting good at this game when you 
can figure out ways to manipulate your standing on the Evil-
ometer to get just the adventurers you want.
When you get your first Adventurer Tile (in spring) put it on 
the small space closest to your dungeon’s entrance. Your sec-
ond Adventurer Tile goes on the next space, and your third 
goes on the last remaining space, so that adventurers enter the 
dungeon in the order in which they come to you.
The warrior is the exception to this rule. When you get a new 
warrior, he pushes his way to the front. Push all the others 
back one space. (A new warrior will even push back a warrior 
from a previous round).
Assigning Adventurers
to 2 Players
In a two-player game, there are 3 Adventurer Tiles and 3 Evil 
Counters on the Evilometer.
Before assigning adventurers, move the non-player Evil Coun-
ter one space toward Evil. Assign the adventurers as though it 
were a 3-player game. (In case of ties, the non-player is nicer 
than the players.) The adventurer assigned to the non-player 
should be discarded to the Distant Lands Board.
End of the Round
At the end of each of the first three rounds, the Starting Player 
Token moves one player to the left. At the end of the last round 
(fall) the token does not move. Instead, Combat begins.
In any case, at this moment you move all your Imp Figures back 
to your Imp Den. They will be ready to work for you next round 
(and they definitely don’t want to get involved in Combat).
Paladin
Each Year has only one paladin. In the First 
Year, you use the weaker paladin, the one 
with the darker background and the silver 
glyph.
If your Evil Counter lands on or rises above 
the paladin space on the Evilometer, the pal-
adin sets out to attack your dungeon. Take 
the Paladin Tile from the Central Board and 
put it in the large space near the entrance to the dungeon. The 
paladin is a special adventurer that is always at the front of 
the party. Any new warrior will push ahead of everyone but 
the paladin. 
The paladin himself is a mighty warrior. And a 
priest. And a wizard. And even a bit of a thief. For 
purposes of the rules, he does not count as any of 
these. He’s just “an adventurer”. But anyone facing the pala-
din quickly realizes he is more like an entire adventuring 
party.
If you cross the line, you attract the paladin immediately. For 
example, if you land on the paladin space because you threat-
ened the villagers, you cannot avoid him by improving your 
reputation in the town, even though the Improve Reputation 
action happens right after Get Food. Once the paladin sets out, 
there is no way to return him to his tent. However, there are 
ways to get him to go to another dungeon. 
You can skip this next bit and save it for when the 
paladin actually does go after someone.
The paladin will move to another player’s dungeon if these two 
conditions are met:
•	 That player’s Evil Counter is at or above the paladin space.
•	 That player’s Evil Counter is higher than the Evil Counter 
of the player who currently has the paladin. (It must be 
higher. Being on the same space is not evil enough.)
Keep in mind that everything in the game happens in order. 
(For example, even if, in practice, everyone is responding to 
an Event Card at the same time, they theoretically make their 
decisions in order, beginning with the starting player.) So it is 
not possible for two players to move up the Evilometer at the 
same time. However, there is still one ambiguous case:
In this example 2 players have simultane-
ously become the most evil. In the Ad-
venturers Phase, we explained that the 
one closer to the starting player is nicer. 
The paladin will go to the one who plays 
later in clockwise play order.
-17-
All right. That’s Building. Once you’ve explained that bit, try to size up the mood of your fellow players.
If they don’t want to hear any more jabbering, then just start playing. You’ve already given them some 
Combat Training, so they’ll have some idea of why they need those traps and monsters. 
You can explain the details of Combat once you’ve played through the first year of Building.

Since you’ve already had Combat Training, this part 
will be pretty easy. There are only a few extra rules:
•	 Combat lasts 4 rounds. Any adventurers that are not 
eliminated after the fourth round leave your dungeon and 
head off to Distant Lands.
•	 Each round has its own Combat Card. This tells you 
which spell the wizards are casting (if there are any wiz-
ards) and how much damage the first adventurer will 
take from fatigue. You have to make your plans before the 
Combat Card is revealed. 
•	 Each time the adventurers conquer a tile, you move your 
Evil Counter down one space on the Evilometer.
Now we’ll go over everything in detail, from beginning to 
end. If you need to see more examples, look back at the Com-
bat Training chapter.
At the end of the last round of Building, the Progress Board 
should be empty. Each dungeon will have 3 adventurers (not 
counting the paladin). In Combat, the adventurers try to con-
quer the dungeons. 
Each adventurer has a certain number of hit points (the red 
number). During battle, adventurers acquire Damage Coun-
ters (the red cubes). When the number of Damage Counters 
on the Adventurer Tile equals or exceeds the adventurer’s hit 
points, the Adventurer Tile is moved immediately to the dun-
geon’s Prison.
The Damage Counters are kept on the Distant 
Lands board so they don’t get in your way during 
Building. For Combat, you should pass a handful 
around so that everyone has as many as they need.
Setup
Flip over the Progress Board so that the Combat Side is up. 
Take the 4 Combat Cards from the Central Board and place 
them face down on the indicated spaces on the Progress Board. 
Be sure to keep them in order. The top card should go in the 
space with 1
, and the bottom card should go in the space 
with 4
The Progress Board maps out 4 rounds of Combat. Each round 
has 3 phases: Planning, Revealing Combat Cards, and Battle. 
Put the Progress Marker on the first space.
Planning Phase
Choosing a Dungeon Tile
Use a Minion Figure to indicate which dungeon tile the ad-
venturers will be attacking. You must choose among the un-
conquered tiles nearest the entrance. Distance is measured as 
though you were walking through the dungeon.
In round 1, this means you must choose the tile at the entrance. 
In later rounds, after this tile is conquered, there may be sev-
eral unconquered tiles that are all nearest. In this case, you will 
choose among them.
It does not matter where the previous round’s battle was 
fought. You can imagine the adventurers retreating to the en-
trance at the end of each round. They always attack one of the 
nearest unconquered tiles.
In round 1, the player 
had to choose the tile at 
the entrance. The adven-
turers conquered it. In 
round 2, the player can 
choose to battle in the 
tunnel on the right or in 
the room. Let’s suppose 
he chooses the room and 
uses the slime’s ability to 
prevent conquering. The 
room is not conquered and in round 3, he has the same two 
choices. This time he chooses the tunnel, and the adventurers 
conquer it. In round 4, he will have to choose the room because 
no other tile is that close to the entrance.
Choosing Defense
In addition to choosing a tile, you need to determine which 
traps and monsters (and ghosts) you will use in the battle. 
Everyone can make these decisions simultaneously, but if one 
player wants to decide based on the other players’ actions, then 
you decide in order, beginning with the starting player (the 
one who started the last round of Building). Traps are played 
face down. Monsters (and ghosts) are played face up. You do 
not have to use any traps or monsters (or ghosts) if you do 
not want to.
Some traps have a cost (imp, food, or gold). You must pay this 
when the trap is revealed. You do not get to change your mind. 
Combat in Tunnels
For a battle in a tunnel, you can use only 1 trap and 1 monster. 
You can use as many ghosts as you want.
Combat in Rooms
For a battle in a room, you can use only 1 trap, and it will cost 
you 1 Gold to do so. Put the Gold Token on the Trap Card so 
you don’t forget. You can use up to 2 monsters and as many 
ghosts as you want.
 
Revealing Combat
Card Phase
Suggestion
For each monster 
in combat, either 
pay its cost, or 
withdraw it.
They abuse you… 
They abuse you...
Once all players have chosen their traps and monsters (and 
ghosts), reveal the Combat Card. Players who used spies to look 
at the card have an advantage: the other players have to plan 
without knowing what the card is.
The Combat Card does not take effect at this time. It is simply 
revealed.
Battle Phase
Suggestion
For each monster 
in combat, either 
pay its cost, or 
withdraw it.
They abuse you… 
They abuse you...
Battle is the last phase of the round. Players will fight their 
battles in order, beginning with the starting player.
	 	
-18-

You should narrate your battle to the other players. 
That way, they can follow along and check that you 
are doing it right. 
Order is important. During battle, your rating on the Evilom-
eter can change. This might make the paladin choose a differ-
ent dungeon (as explained in the Paladin section above). The 
paladin will move immediately (along with any Damage Coun-
ters that are on him) so it is possible that the paladin will fight 
in multiple dungeons in the same round. Once the paladin is 
eliminated, however, he will move no more, regardless of the 
Evilometer.
A paladin in your prison is worth more points than 
the average adventurer. You know you’re getting 
really good at this game when you can draw the 
paladin to your dungeon after another player has nearly fin-
ished him off.
Battle has several steps, which are illustrated on your Dungeon 
Board. When it is your turn, place your second Minion Figure 
on the illustration of the first step, and move him along after 
each step is dealt with.
Trap Step
You begin Battle by revealing your Trap Card, if you played one. 
If the Trap Card has a cost to use, you must pay this cost. If the 
battle is in a room, you must pay 1 Gold to use the trap. It is not 
legal to choose a Trap Card that you cannot pay for.
Traps usually wound the adventurers. Damage is reduced by 
1 for each 
 symbol on the paladin and thief tiles in the 
party. Priority is given to reducing damage to the adventurers 
in front. For examples, see the chapter on Combat Training.
Traps may also have additional effects. These cannot be pre-
vented.
Once a trap is used, discard it to the Distant Lands Board.
Fast Spells Step
•	 The Combat Card for this round has the fast spell 
icon 
•	 The party has enough magic points. 
The number of magic points required is shown above the Com-
bat Card on the Progress Board. The round 1 spell only requires 
1 point. The round 2 spell requires 2. Etc. If the number of 
 
 symbols on the party’s paladin and wizards is equal to 
this number or greater, the party has enough magic points.
The effect of the fast spell is given on the card. It usually influ-
ences the rest of the Battle. If the spell talks about “withdraw-
ing” a monster, that means you return it to your Monster Lair 
and leave it face up, as though you had never sent it into battle.
If the spell is not a fast spell, if the party cannot cast spells, or if 
the party does not have enough magic points, then ignore the 
text on the card and skip this step.
Monsters (and Ghosts) Step
Now your monsters (and ghosts) attack. If you sent more than 
one, you choose the order in which they attack.
The Monster (or Ghost) Tile illustrates the monster’s (or 
ghost’s) attack. If there are 2 attacks divided by a horizontal 
line, you get to choose which attack to use.
If you sent a monster (or ghost) it must attack if possible. 
Whether it attacks or not, it is then knocked out for the rest 
of the Year. Place the Monster (or Ghost) Tile in the Monster 
Lair face down.
The Combat Training chapter has many examples of attacks 
and special powers. Here is a summary:
Standard Attack: The first adventurer receives the 
indicated amount of damage.
Attack Anyone: You choose an adventurer to receive 
the indicated amount of damage.
Attack Everyone: Each adventurer receives the indi-
cated amount of damage.
The monster may not attack priests.
The ghost may not attack the first adventurer.
The monster returns to the lair face up. It is not 
knocked out. 
The party does not conquer (and does not 
accumulate fatigue) this round.
Skip the Healing Step for this round of Combat.
Not a monster.
Take a Troll Token. (This is not relevant to Combat.)
Slow Spells Step
•	 The Combat Card for this round has the slow spell 
icon 
•	 The party has enough magic points (as explained above). 
The spell takes effect as described on the card. Usually it harms 
your dungeon.
Here’s the way spells work: in round 1, the party 
needs 1 magic point. In round 2, they need 2, and so 
on. The spell is either fast or slow. If it’s fast, it hap-
pens after traps but before monsters. If it’s slow, it happens 
after monsters.
You don’t check for magic points until the spell is ready to 
take effect. So a trap that eliminates a wizard might keep the 
party from casting a fast spell. A monster can’t stop a fast 
spell, but it might be able to eliminate a wizard before he can 
cast a slow spell.
Healing Step
•	 The party has at least one priest or paladin (with the 
 
symbol).
•	 At least one monster (or ghost) attacked. (The slime’s spe-
cial ability is not an attack.)
In the healing step, you remove 1 Damage Counter for each 
 symbol in the party. Take Damage Counters off the ad-
venturers in front first.
Adventurers that take maximum damage are eliminated im-
mediately. It is not possible to bring them back from Prison 
during the Healing Step.
Conquering Step
Before conquering the tile, the party accumulates fatigue. Fa-
tigue is damage dealt by the effort of conquering. The amount 
of damage is specified on the Combat Card. The damage is dealt 
to the first adventurer, but it is dealt one point at a time. If the 
-19-

Return the 4 used Combat Cards to the box. Take the 4 gold-
backed Combat Cards from the Distant Lands Board and put 
them on the town space of the Central Game Board.
If the paladin for the First Year is still in his tent, move him 
to the Distant Lands Board. In the Second Year, you use only 
the stronger paladin (with the gold glyph). You will draw new 
Adventurer, Monster, and Room Tiles from the gold-backed 
stacks.
In a two-player game, you also need to move the non-
player Evil Counter 2 spaces down the Evilometer 
toward the happy face. This simulates conquering in the non-
player dungeon.
Choosing a New
Starting Player
The Starting Player Token should still be with the player who 
started fall in the First Year. Now it is time to pass it on. 
•	 In a 4-player game, the Starting Player Token should be 
given to the player opposite the person who started the 
First Year. (So it moves 3 places to the left.)
•	 
In a 3-player game, the Starting Player Token 
should be given to the player who was starting 
player in spring of the First Year. (So it just moves one 
place to the left, as normal.)
•	 
In a 2-player game, the Starting Player Token 
should be kept by the player who started fall in the 
First Year.
(At the end of winter, spring, and summer, the Starting Player 
Token will move one player to the left, as it did in the First 
Year.)
Now check the Evilometer. If any player is at or above the pala-
din’s limit of tolerance, the paladin moves to that player’s dun-
geon. (In case of ties, don’t forget that the new starting player 
is the nicest.)
Building in the 
The Second Year is similar to the First, but the rooms do differ-
ent things. The adventurers are more powerful, but so are the 
monsters, and you get a bit more choice when buying traps.
Rooms and Monsters 
in the Second Year
The Second Year rooms do not produce anything. However, your 
First Year rooms become more productive. If you have enough 
imps, you can make your First Year rooms produce twice (e.g., 
use 3 imps to produce 1 Food or 6 imps to produce 2 Food).
The Second Year rooms either give you advantages when there 
is a battle in them, or they give you points at the end of the 
game. Second Year rooms have no zone restrictions.
If you put the combat rooms near the entrance, 
you’ll be able to use them. Try to keep the point-
scoring rooms away from the adventurers.
The back page of this book gives a description of all the rooms 
and monsters. Some of the Second Year monsters have unusual 
costs.
	 	
-20-
After Combat, the Second Year begins. Players continue with the same dungeons. Conquered rooms and tunnels cannot be repaired in any way. 
Your inaccessible Orders Cards for winter will be the two that you put there at the end of fall in the First Year.
first adventurer is eliminated, the remaining damage will fall on 
the next in line. And so on.
I’ll save you the trouble of looking at the Combat 
Cards: in the First Year, one card gives 0 fatigue, 
four give 1, and four give 2. In the Second Year, one 
card gives 1 fatigue, four give 2, and four give 3.
If there is still at least one adventurer left after assigning fa-
tigue damage, the tile is conquered. Flip it over so that the 
light side is up. 
A conquered tunnel is a picture of utter devasta-
tion. Sunlight streams in through holes in the ceil-
ing. Grass grows among the ruins. I have even seen 
flowers. Nothing is sadder.
A conquered dungeon tile is unusable. A conquered room loses 
its function. A conquered tunnel cannot be turned into a room, 
and gold cannot be mined there. 
However, it remains a tile in your dungeon. New tunnels can be 
dug adjacent to it, and rules like “don’t make a 2×2 square” and 
“don’t put 2 rooms next to each other” still apply.
And you still have to pay taxes on a conquered tile.
If those do-gooder adventurers really wanted to do 
some good... um... snoegnuD fo yrtsiniM eht hguo-
rht egapmar dluow yehT.
Each time the adventurers conquer one of your tiles, you lose 1 
Evil (move down 1 space on the Evilometer).
It is difficult to maintain an aura of malevolence af-
ter a party of adventurers has waltzed past your 
traps and monsters. The word gets out.
End of Combat
There are three ways Combat in your dungeon can end:
•	 All adventurers are eliminated. This ends your Combat im-
mediately. You skip any steps remaining in the Battle, and 
you will not battle in the remaining rounds. You just wait 
for the others to finish.
•	 Four rounds have been fought. Any adventurers remaining 
leave the dungeons and go to the Distant Lands Board. 
•	 No unconquered tiles are left. If you have no unconquered 
tiles, there is nowhere left to fight. Each time you are sup-
posed to pick a tile, you must let a prisoner go instead. 
(Move one Adventurer Tile from your Prison to the Dis-
tant Lands Board. You can save the paladin for last.)
After all players are done with Combat, turn your monsters (and 
ghosts) face up again – they don’t want to miss the next Pay Day.
There’s one more difference between Combat 
Training and actual Combat: in the Training exam-
ples, there is an optimal solution. 
Real Combat is a lot messier. If you only lose 1 tile, that is a major 
victory. You should expect to lose 2 or 3 and build your dungeon 
big enough so that you will have something left afterward.
Moving Paladin
Because players change positions on the Evilometer during 
Combat, it is possible that the paladin will move. When he 
does, he keeps any Damage Counters.
If the paladin moves to a dungeon where all adventurers have 
been eliminated, Combat in that dungeon will start up again 
next round. (If the paladin arrives in round 4, his arrival will 
not re-start Combat.)
Notes on 
Selected Traps
Poisoned 
Dart
Deal 1 damage to the 
adventurer of your choice. 
At the end of the round 
(after Conquering) 
 he also takes 2 damage 
that cannot be prevented.
“I’m fine. 
It’s just a scratch.”
Poisoned Dart
The additional 2 damage at the end of the round 
cannot be prevented by the 
 ability. It is dealt 
to the dart’s target even if the initial 1 damage was 
prevented. (“I’m okay! It’s just a scratch.”)
Anti-magic 
Dart
Deal 1 damage to the 
adventurer of your 
choice. If he is a wizard, 
the party casts no spells 
this round. 
 If he is a priest, skip 
the Healing Step.
“Ablacradaba! Um... 
babracadable! Bleah.”
Anti-Magic Dart
If a wizard is targeted, not even the paladin can 
cast spells. If a priest is targeted, not even the pal-
adin can heal the party. If the paladin is targeted, 
however, there is no special effect.

You can explain all the new rooms and monsters 
now, or you can wait until they show up on the ta-
ble. It’s up to you.
Buying Traps in the 
Adventurers and monsters are more powerful in 
the Second Year, but the imps are selling the same 
old traps. To help business along, they come up 
with a special sale: when you buy from their shop, you get to 
take home an extra trap... but only for a little while. After 
opening up the bundles and examining the traps, you choose 
one to bundle up and take back. It doesn’t matter which trap 
you send back to them. They have no idea what they sold you 
anyway.
It is a useful service. And perhaps someday the imps will fig-
ure out how to label those bundles and save us all the trouble.
Buy Traps works differently in the Second Year. You draw one 
extra Trap Card (2 cards on spaces 
, and 3 cards on 
). After looking at all your Trap Cards, you discard 
one, face down. Your discard can be one of those that you just 
drew, or it can be one that you drew earlier.
This rule only applies to the Buy Traps action, not to a room 
that produces traps.
Combat in the 
Combat is the same in both Years. Tiles that were conquered in 
the First Year remain conquered. The adventurers continue to 
attack unconquered tiles closest to the entrance.
	 	
Scoring
Two years pass as though it were only two hours. 
And there, at the entrance to your dungeon, ap-
pear the officials from the Ministry. It is time for 
your evaluation.
The Scoring Track is on the Combat side of the Progress Board. 
Each player places his or her third Minion Figure on the space 
labeled 0.
One minion points out which tile is being fought 
over. One keeps track of the order of battle. The 
third minion is in charge of keeping score. Of 
course, you can use whichever minion you want, but we min-
ions appreciate it when we are assigned a special function.
Take the Overview Card and go through the scoring line by 
line. At each line, move all the players’ figures the specified 
number of spaces:
•	 2 points for each unconquered room in your dungeon.
•	 1 point for each monster in your Monster Lair. (They 
should all be face up again after Combat.) No points for 
ghosts.
•	 2 points for each adventurer in your Prison, except for 
paladins who are each worth 5 points.
•	 You lose 2 points for each conquered tile (room or tunnel). 
•	 You lose 3 points for each red mark in your Dead Letter 
Office.
•	 Rooms that score bonus points are scored at this time, ex-
cept for the Hall of Fame which is scored while handing out 
titles.
Note that having a room conquered costs you 4 points: you lose 
2 because it was conquered and you don’t score the 2 points for 
an unconquered room.
+1
+5
–2
–3
?
+3
(or +2 in two-player game)
(or +1 in two-player game)
Monster (not ghost)
Unconquered room
mprisoned adventurer
mprisoned paladin
Conquered dungeon tile
Unpaid tax
Point-scoring rooms
Exclusive title
Shared title
Titles
Titles are given to players who have the most in selected cat-
egories. If one player has the most, then the title is exclusive 
and worth 3 points. If 2 or more players have the most, then 
they have to share the title and only get 2 points each.
In a 2-player game, exclusive titles are worth 2 points 
and shared titles are worth 1. Ignore non-player Dun-
geon Boards and Evil Counters.
The Lord of Dark Deeds
This title goes to the player highest on the Evilometer. In case 
of a tie, this title is shared. (The Starting Player Marker has no 
effect on this title.)
No, you don’t get any points for being lowest. “Lord 
of Kissing Up to Townsfolk” is not something to 
brag about.
The Lord of Halls
This title goes to the player who has the most rooms. Even 
conquered rooms count. 
This title goes to the player who has the most tunnels. Even 
conquered tunnels count. 
Whenever you build a room, you have to give up a 
tunnel. Keep that in mind at the end of the Second 
Year of Building when you are maneuvering for titles.
Highest on Evilometer
Most rooms (conquered and unconquered)
Most tunnels (conquered and unconquered)
Most monsters (not ghosts)
Most imps (not trolls)
Most food, gold, and unused traps
Fewest conquered dungeon tiles
Titles
The ord of Dark Deeds
The ord of Halls
The ord of mps
The ord of Riches
This title goes to the player who has the most monsters. Ghosts 
do not count.
The Lord of Imps
This title goes to the player who has the most Imp Figures. 
Troll Tokens do not count.
The Lord of Riches
Your treasure is measured by the total number of Gold Tokens, 
Food Tokens, and unplayed Trap Cards you have. Whoever has 
the most gets this title.
Unlike the other titles, this one goes to the player with the 
fewest: the fewest conquered tiles (tunnels and rooms).
Winning the Game
The player with the most points wins and becomes the Under-
lord, the highest-ranking dungeon lord in the land. If there is a 
tie, then victory is shared.
All players who finish the game with a score above zero pass 
the test and get their dungeon lord licenses. 
If you finish with zero points or less, don’t worry: you’ll get 
your license next time.
You know, it’s not really about winning. It’s about 
building a great dungeon. Even if everything is go-
ing wrong and you have no chance to become the 
Underlord, you can at least dig a lot of holes and get them to 
declare you ... the Tunnellord!
-21-

Choosing Initial 
Inaccessible Orders
In your first game, the inaccessible orders for the first round of 
the First Year were chosen randomly. In the full game, you have 
a bit more control.
After the starting player has been chosen, but before the first 
Monster, Room, Adventurer, and Event Tiles are revealed, you 
shuffle your Orders Cards and draw three at random. From 
these you choose two to be your inaccessible orders. Once all 
players have made their choices, the inaccessible orders are re-
vealed and the game begins as described above.
Inaccessible orders for later rounds are chosen in the usual way.
We left this rule out of the first game because new 
players probably won’t understand what the orders 
do until they have seen them in action. But you can 
use it in your first game if you want.
Special Events
During Setup, shuffle the blue Special Event Cards. Draw 2 at 
random and place them face down on the Distant Lands Board: 
one underneath the Second Year Combat Cards Deck and one 
on top of it. Put the rest of the Special Event Cards back in the 
box without looking at them.
When the “Special Event” Event Tile is revealed, take the Spe-
cial Event Card for that year from the Distant Lands Board and 
place it face up on the Progress Board.
When it comes time to deal with the Special Event, proceed 
according to the text on the card.
The Special Events make your job harder. If you 
want an easier game, you can leave them out.
Recruiting as First Order
The early bird may get the worm, but the early 
minion will have trouble getting into the tavern: 
Everyone will still be asleep. Pounding on the door 
will not convince the bartender to open early. However, the 
jingle of a pouch of coins can be heard above the loudest 
snoring.
The Recruit Monster (or Ghost) 
card has a special symbol to re-
mind you of this rule: if you play 
the card as your first order, it 
costs you 1 Gold. You must pay 
this as soon as the card is re-
vealed, before you move your 
Minion Figure to the Under-
ground Tavern. If you have no 
Gold and you play this card as 
your first order, your Minion Fig-
ure is placed directly on the card instead of on one of the action 
spaces (which leaves the space open for another player to use). 
Paying a Cost vs. 
Gaining Evil
You pay for 
 costs with your reputation, by moving up 
the Evilometer. If you are out of spaces to move up to, you 
cannot pay the cost. It is analogous to being out of Gold or 
Food Tokens.
There are three situations where moving up the Evilometer 
is a cost:
1.	 Getting food on action spaces 
2.	 Hiring certain monsters (and ghosts).
3.	 Paying wages to your monsters (and ghosts) either during 
Pay Day or in response to the Suggestion spell.
In all other situations (other spells, special events, releasing 
monsters (or ghosts) on Pay Day) you are not paying a cost, 
you are “gaining Evil”. If you gain (or lose) Evil that would move 
you off the end of the Evilometer, you simply remain on the 
space on that end.
We like to call this “Absolute Evil”. One cannot im-
prove on perfection.
It is Pay Day. The player in 
this situation can only pay 
2 more 
, so he must let 
the witch or the vampire go. 
He decides to keep the vampire 
and pays the cost by moving 
2  spaces up the Evilometer. 
He gains 1 Evil for letting the 
witch go, but his Evil Counter 
is already at the top, so it does 
not go any higher.
A game by 
Vlaada Chvátil
Illustration: David Cochard
Graphic design: Filip Murmak
Translation: Jason Holt
Lead tester: Petr Murmak
Testers: Milano, Vazoun, Peťa, Rumun, Jéňa, Křupin and many others from the 
Brno Boardgame club, Ellife, Roneth, Vodka, Cauly the Paladinslayer and others 
from club Korunka in Ostrava, Petr, Martina, Vítek, Filip, Ladinek, Vláďa 
Suchý, Jirka Bauma, and others from clubs Paluba and Kapsa in Prague, Plema, 
Flygon, Tomáš and others from clubs in Pilsen, Eklp, Petronilla, Elwen, Tůva 
Bivod and his friends, and many others from all parts of the Czech Republic.
Special thanks: to dilli and her Slovakian and Austrian gaming friends, and to 
those nice people organizing Festival Fantazie and Gamecon events.
© Czech Games Edition, October 2009 
www.CzechGames.com
Full Game
-22-
The rules given above are appropriate for introducing new players to the game. For your next game, you can play with the full rules. There are only a few differences:

Setup
•	 Choose a starting player and set up the game according to the pictures 
on pages 7–9.
•	 Randomly choose 2 Special Event Cards, which remain unknown for 
now.
•	 Shuffle your own Orders Cards and draw 3 at random. Choose 2 to be 
your inaccessible orders. All players reveal these simultaneously.
Building
•	 New Round Phase
	 »	 Draw 3 new Monster (or Ghost) Tiles and 2 new Room Tiles.
	 »	 Except in round 4, you also do the following:
	 	 –	 Draw Adventurer Tiles (4 for four players, or 3 otherwise) and 
arrange them according to their shade and glyphs, from least 
powerful to most powerful. (If they are all equally powerful, 
replace the last one drawn.)
	 	 –	 Turn up next round’s Event Tile. If it is a Special Event, reveal 
this Year’s Special Event Card.
•	 Orders Phase
	 »	 Choose orders for any non-player colors. (See page 15.)
	 »	 Each player chooses 3 Orders Cards.
	 »	 Players reveal their orders and take turns placing their figures on 
the action spaces.
	 	 –	 A player who chooses Hire Monster (or Ghost) for his or her 
first order must pay 1 Gold.
	 	 –	 If there is no space left for a Minion Figure, it goes on the Or-
ders Card.
	 »	 Actions are played in the order indicated by the Central Board, left 
to right, top to bottom.
	 	 –	 Get Food, Improve Reputation, Hire Imps, or Buy Traps: You 
pay the cost on the left of the arrow (if any) and gain the thing 
on the right of the arrow. Paying only part of the cost for part 
of the benefits is not allowed.
	 	 	 °	 A player who gets a chance to spy can look at one of the 
Combat Cards.
	 	 	 °	 In the Second Year, a player buying traps gets one extra Trap 
Card and then discards any one of his or her Trap Cards.
	 	 –	 Dig Tunnels or Mine Gold: You gain a permit to employ up to 
the specified number of imps. You are allowed to use fewer if 
you wish. On space 
, you are required to have a foreimp, 
regardless of how many other imps you employ. Trolls do not 
help with digging or mining.
	 	 	 °	 New tunnels must be adjacent to a previous room or tunnel. 
You cannot fill all squares of a 2×2 block. You need 1 imp for 
each new tunnel.
	 	 	 °	 Each imp can mine 1 Gold in 1 unconquered tunnel. Two 
imps cannot mine the same tunnel.
	 	 –	 Hire Monster (or Ghost): Players choose in reverse order – 
. When you hire a monster, you pay its cost. (On 
, you also pay 1 Food.)
	 	 –	 Build Room: Players choose in reverse order. On spaces 
, you pay 1 Gold. On space 
, you pay nothing, 
but there might not be any rooms left.
	 	 	 °	 The room replaces an unconquered tunnel. 
	 	 	 °	 Two rooms cannot be adjacent to each other.
	 	 	 °	 First Year rooms must be built in their specified zones.
	 	 –	 If you do not use an action, return your Minion Figure to that 
Orders Card to indicate that the order was not carried out.
•	 Production and Orders Retrieval Phase
	 »	 If you have any unused Imp Figures (or any Troll Tokens) you can 
use them in rooms that produce. Move the indicated number of 
imps (or trolls) to the room (and pay any additional cost if there is 
one) to get the indicated product. Imps produced by a room can be 
used immediately.
	 	 –	 In the First Year, each room can only produce once per round. 
In the Second Year, each room can produce twice per round.
	 »	 Take back both inaccessible Orders Cards. Of the 3 that you played 
this round, either take back the first or take back any card with a 
Minion Figure. Move the other two up to the spaces for inacces-
sible orders.
•	 Event Phase
	 »	 Events affect all players in order, beginning with the starting player.
	 	 –	 Pay Day: For each monster (and ghost), either pay its cost, or let 
it go and gain 1 Evil.
	 	 –	 Taxes: For every 2 dungeon tiles (conquered or unconquered) 
you are taxed 1 Gold. Round up. Gain 1 red mark (-3 points at 
the end of the game) for each Gold you cannot or will not pay.
	 	 –	 Special Event: Proceed according to the text of the Special Event 
Card.
•	 Adventurers Phase
	 »	 In a 2-player game, move the non-player Evil Counter up 1 space.
	 »	 The least powerful adventurer (on the far left) goes to the player 
lowest on the Evilometer. The next in line goes to the next player on 
the Evilometer, and so on. Break ties based on play order. Starting 
player is nicest.
	 	 –	 New adventurers line up behind those from previous rounds, 
except for warriors, who move to the front of the party.
•	 End of the Round
	 »	 Return all imps to their Imp Den.
	 »	 Except in fall, pass the Starting Player Token to the left.
Paladin
	 »	 Each Year has only one paladin.
	 »	 The paladin leaves his tent and goes to the dungeon of the first 
player to land on or climb above the paladin’s level of tolerance 
indicated on the Evilometer.
	 »	 The paladin will move to a different player’s dungeon if that player 
is at or above the tolerance level and is above the player who cur-
rently has the paladin.
	 	 –	 Break ties in clockwise play order. The starting player is nicest.
	 	 –	 If the paladin moves into a different dungeon during Combat, 
he takes his damage (if any) with him.
Combat
•	 Flip over the Progress Board. Deal out the Combat Cards face down, 
in order.
•	 Combat has four rounds. If an adventurer’s Damage Counters equal 
or exceed his hit points, he is eliminated and goes immediately to the 
Prison. Your Combat is over when you eliminate all your adventurers 
or after you fight four rounds.
•	 Planning Phase: All players can plan simultaneously.
	 »	 Choose an unconquered tile nearest the entrance and mark it with 
a Minion Figure.
	 	 –	 For a tunnel, you can play 1 trap and 1 monster.
	 	 –	 For room, you can play 1 trap (but it costs 1 Gold) and up to 2 
monsters.
	 	 –	 You can play as many ghosts as you want.
	 	 –	 You do not have to play a trap or a monster (or a ghost) if you 
don’t want to.
	 »	 If you have no unconquered tiles, you discard one imprisoned ad-
venturer instead of planning.
•	 Revealing Combat Card Phase: Reveal the Combat Card for this round.
•	 Battle Phase: Players battle in order, beginning with the starting player.
	 »	 Traps Step: Reveal (and pay for, if necessary) your Trap Card and 
deal with its effect. Thieves reduce damage by one per 
 sym-
bol, protecting adventurers in front first. Discard the Trap Card.
	 »	 Fast Spell Step: If the Combat Card has a fast spell and if the party 
has enough magic points
, then deal with the fast spell’s effect.
	 »	 Monsters (and Ghosts) Step: Your monsters (and ghosts) attack in 
the order you choose. After attacking, your monster (or ghost) is 
knocked out (face down) for the rest of the Year.
	 »	 Slow Spell Step: If the Combat Card has a slow spell and if the party 
has enough magic points
, then the slow spell takes effect.
	 »	 Healing Step: If at least one monster (or ghost) attacked, then re-
move 1 Damage Counter from the party for each 
 symbol. 
Those in front are healed first.
	 »	 Conquering Step: 
	 	 –	 The party takes the amount of Damage Counters shown on the 
Combat Card. These go to the first adventurer. If the first ad-
venturer is eliminated, any remaining counters are put on the 
next in line.
	 	 –	 If at least one adventurer remains, the party conquers the tile. 
Flip it over and move your Evil Counter one space down the 
Evilometer.
Second Year
	 »	 Setup: Flip the Progress Board back to the Building side. Put new 
Combat Cards in the Town. Discard the paladin from the First Year 
if he is still in on the Central Board.
	 »	 In a 2-player game, move the non-player Evil Counter 2 spaces 
down the Evilometer.
	 »	 Choose a new starting player by moving the Starting Player Marker:
	 	 –	 One player to the right, in a four-player game.
	 	 –	 One player to the left, in a three-player game.
	 	 –	 Not at all, in a two-player game.
	 »	 At the end of winter, spring, and summer, the Starting Player 
Marker moves left, as in the First Year.
	 »	 Play through Building and Combat in the Second Year.
	 »	 Give out points for various aspects of the individual dungeons.
	 »	 Give out points for titles.
	 »	 The one with the most points wins and is declared the Underlord.
	 »	 All players with positive scores get their dungeon lord license.
Here’s a quick summary of the rules, with no jab-
bering.
It should be noted that...
Hey! No jabbering.
Full Rules Summary
-23-

Monsters (and Ghost)
Goblin
The goblin is not the biggest monster in the dungeon, 
but if its standard attack of 2 manages to eliminate the 
lead adventurer, it gets so excited that it also attacks 
the next adventurer in line for 1.
Slime
What would a dungeon be without slime? The slime 
can either attack from the ceiling (1 on everyone) or 
it can slurp around the party’s ankles and hold them 
in place. 
If you choose the second option, the party does not conquer (or ac-
cumulate fatigue) this round. The slime will still be knocked out, but 
it does not count as an attack. Priests will not heal the party unless a 
different monster (or ghost) attacked this round.
Ghost
The odd thing about this monster is that it is not a 
monster:
•	 The limits on the number of monsters allowed in a 
battle do not apply to ghosts.
•	 A spell or event that applies to monsters does not apply to ghosts 
unless it specifically says so.
•	 Ghosts do not count as monsters during scoring.
•	 Ghosts cannot be used to pay the cost for a demon.
A ghost cannot attack the first adventurer in line, but it can attack 
any other adventurer for 2. If there is only one adventurer, the ghost 
cannot attack at all.
Troll
This hairy, good-natured giant enjoys helping out imps 
around the dungeon. When you hire a troll, you get a 
Troll Token which can be used instead of an Imp Fig-
ure in a production room. The troll does not help with 
digging tunnels or mining gold and does not count as an imp during 
scoring. If you lose your troll, you have to return the Troll Token.
A troll has a standard attack for 3. If you pay 1 Food, it will attack for 
4. It fights better on a full stomach.
Witch
The witch specializes in the wild magic of chaos. She 
can either cast one big spell (standard attack 4) or two 
smaller spells (two attacks on anyone for 1 each). The 
two attacks can be on the same adventurer or on two 
different adventurers.
Vampire
Nothing says “evil” like blood sucking. A vampire can 
chomp on any adventurer for 3 damage. Or it can eat 
and run: attack any adventurer for 2 and then return 
to the Monster Lair face up, ready to be used in a later 
battle.
A vampire cannot attack priests (but it doesn’t mind the taste of 
paladins). If the party has only priests left, the vampire cannot at-
tack, but it can still return to the Monster Lair face up.
Golem
In addition to 1 Gold, a golem also costs 1 Trap Card. 
You must discard a trap when you hire the golem, and 
you must discard another trap to pay him on Pay Day. 
If you do not have a Trap Card, you cannot pay his cost.
A golem simply attacks. And attacks. And attacks. It has a standard 
attack of 4, but it is not knocked out after battle. It returns to the 
Monster Lair face up and can be used in a later round.
Dragon
A dragon’s fiery breath does 2 damage to each adven-
turer. In addition the party skips the Healing Step for 
this round of Combat. 
Demon
A demon just jumps into the middle of the party and 
takes someone out. It can attack anyone for 7 points 
of damage. The party is so shocked that they forget 
to conquer this round. Skip conquering and fatigue. 
In addition to paying the 
 cost, you must discard a monster 
when you hire or pay the demon. On the plus side, a monster fed to 
the demon on Pay Day does not need to be paid.
Heh, heh. That’s me. I’m always happy to help you reduce 
your overhead. But don’t think you can get away with 
feeding me ghosts. They just go right through me.
Production Rooms
Production rooms are only available in the First Year. They can be 
used once per round in the First Year and twice per round in the 
Second Year. Each room requires a certain number of imps, but Troll 
Tokens will work, too.
Chicken Coop, Mushroom Bed
These rooms produce Food. Chickens like to live 
closer to the surface, and mushrooms like to be deep 
underground.
Souvenir Shop, Mint
These rooms produce Gold. The Souvenir Shop 
should be near the surface to attract customers. 
The Mint is not exactly legal, so it should be hidden 
deeper (even though some people believe that making ceramic imp 
mugs is a bigger crime than forging money).
Workshop
Trap manufacture is a noisy business, so it’s best to 
have this on the edge of the dungeon. When using 
this room, you draw a Trap Card. The rule about 
drawing an extra Trap Card when you Buy Traps in the Second Year 
does not apply to Trap Cards you get from the Workshop.
Tool Shed
Give the imps a few extra picks, and you can be sure 
they will start digging, whether you have a permit 
or not. This room allows you to dig 1 tunnel, accord-
ing to the usual rules. This tunnel is dug by the 2 imps in the Tool 
Shed. You don’t need to put an Imp Figure on it.
Printing Press
If you don’t like the news, print your own. Located 
in the center of your dungeon, a printing press gives 
you the ability to impress the populace with stories 
like “Local Dungeon Lord Rescues Local Cat” or “Local Dungeon 
Lord First In Line at Blood Drive”.
Magic Room
Also recommended for the center of the dungeon is 
this tastefully decorated hide-away that we call “the 
Magic Room”. Send in two imps and a romantic din-
ner, and out come three. It’s magic!
The new Imp Figure shows up in your Imp Den immediately, so it can 
also be used in production. And yes, even in this room you can use 
Troll Tokens. What can we say? They just really like imps.
Combat Rooms
Combat rooms are found only in the Second Year. They affect battles 
that are fought in them. They have no effect outside of Combat and 
no effect on Combat in other tiles in your dungeon.
Training Room
This is where your trolls and goblins learn martial 
arts. In this room, trolls and goblins have +1 damage 
to each attack: A troll can attack for 4 (or 5 with 
Food) and a goblin can attack for 3 and then again for 2 if the first 
attack eliminates the lead adventurer.
Dark Room
No, this is not where you develop your photographs. 
This is just a very dark room. In this room, vampires 
and witches have +1 damage to each attack. A vampire 
can either attack for 4, or attack for 3 and then escape. A witch can 
make a standard attack for 5, or she can make two attacks for 2 on 
anyone.
Labyrinth
The labyrinth is like a long tunnel: you can put 2 
traps here and you don’t have to pay gold for them 
as you do in other rooms. However, you can only 
play one monster here.
If you play 2 traps, you can use them in either order. To reduce dam-
age from the second trap, the party can only use as many 
 sym-
bols as they have left over after dealing with the first trap.
The Labyrinth still counts as a room during scoring.
Anti-Magic Room
No, this is not the opposite of the Magic Room. This 
is a room where the party cannot cast any spells. 
For a battle in this room, skip the Fast Spell Step 
and the Slow Spell Step. 
Your traps and monsters (and ghosts) function normally. (Not even 
your witch is affected by the anti-magic.)
Point-Scoring Rooms
Point-scoring rooms are available only in the Second Year. They give 
you bonus points at the end of the game, but only if you can keep 
them from being conquered. These points are in addition to the 2 
points you get for each unconquered room. Don’t forget to turn your 
Monster (or Ghost) Tiles face up after the Second Year’s Combat. 
Those monsters just love to be scored.
Cafeteria
You gain 1 point for each monster depicted (troll, 
goblin, slime, or witch). (These monsters all eat 
food. Dragons eat food, too, but the Cafeteria won’t 
give you points for dragons because they start food fights.)
Chapel
With a pipe organ, of course. Play that ominous mi-
nor chord and gain 2 points for each vampire and 
ghost. (That’s right: points for ghosts.)
Pandemonium
Gothic arches, marble pedestals, grotesque statues, 
and a gate to another dimension. Gain 2 points for 
each golem, dragon, and demon.
Hall of Fame
This is where you keep your awards and trophies. 
For each exclusive title you earn, you gain an ad-
ditional 2 points (or 1 point in a three- or two-player 
game). Unlike with the other rooms, these points are scored while 
handing out titles.
Appendix