RULEBOOK

Credits
Design and Development	
Bill Slavicsek, Mike Mearls, Peter Lee
Additional Design	
Rob Heinsoo
Editing	
Cal Moore
D&D Senior Art Director	
Jon Schindehette
Art Director	
Mari Kolkowsky
Cover Illustration	
Jesper Ejsing
Graphic Designer	
Keven Smith
Interior Illustrations	
Andrew Hou, Warren Mahy, 
	
Wayne Reynolds
Dungeon Tiles	
Jason A. Engle
Prepress Manager	
Jefferson Dunlap
Imaging Technician	
Sven Bolen
Production Manager	
Raini Applin Rosta
Playtesting	
Logan Bonner, Andy Collins, Mike 
	
Donais, Genevieve Gorman, Nina 
	
Hess, Mons Johnson, Kenneth Nagle, 
	
Eric Pope, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, 
	
Bill Rose, Peter Schaefer, Trevor 
	
Schrock, Rob Schwalb, Matthew 
	
Sernett, Chris Sims, Jennifer Tatroe, 
	
Kevin Tatroe, Rodney Thompson, 
	
Chris Tulach, James Wyatt
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction	
Game Overview	
Winning the Game	
	
Game Setup	
	
Taking Turns	
	
The Dungeon Tile Stack	
Player Setup	
The Hero Card	
Player Turn	
	
Hero Phase	
	
Exploration Phase	
	
Villain Phase	
Movement	
	
When Do You Move?	
	
How Do You Move?	
	
Condition: Slowed	
	
Condition: Immobilized	
Attacks	
	
Daily Powers	
	
At-Will Powers	
	
Utility Powers	
Combat	
	
Targeting	
	
Armor Class	
	
Attack Bonus	
	
Making an Attack	
	
Damage	
	
Defeating Monsters	
	
Defeating Heroes	
	
Healing Surges	
The Monster Deck	
The Encounter Deck	
The Treasure Deck	
Experience Points	
	
Canceling Encounter Cards	
	
Leveling Up	
Rules for Later Adventures	
	
Choosing Power Cards	
	
Making Adventures More or Less Challenging	
Introduction
In an ancient time and place, magic permeates the land and 
monsters stalk the shadows that gather along the edges of civi-
lization. In this age of dungeons and dragons, the world needs 
Heroes. Encased in varied types of armor and armed with 
swords, bows, staves, and spells, these Heroes explore ancient 
ruins, take on daring quests, and challenge the most fearsome 
monsters. One such quest takes Heroes to a dark and mysteri-
ous place called Castle Ravenloft.
Castle Ravenloft
The master of Castle Ravenloft is having guests for dinner—and 
you are invited!
The castle rises over the dark forests of the land of Barovia, 
looking down upon a sad, frightened village surrounded by an 
endless sea of dense fog and mist. The master of the castle, 
Count Strahd, is a vampire, and the night and its creatures 
belong to him. As long as Strahd exists, Barovia and the land 
around it will never be safe.
A group of Heroes has recently arrived in Barovia, stepping out 
of the mists to find themselves caught up in the evil emanating 
from Castle Ravenloft. These Heroes have chosen to enter the 
castle and discover the secrets waiting within. The dangers are 
great, the monsters are deadly, and only the bravest and most-
capable Heroes stand a chance of surviving—let alone succeed-
ing—in defeating Strahd and his minions.
The entrance to the castle looms ahead. Strahd’s plans are near-
ing fruition, and the master of the castle has an undying thirst 
for blood. Can you defeat Count Strahd and the Monsters that 
inhabit Castle Ravenloft?
Game Overview
The Dungeons & Dragons: Castle Ravenloft™ Board Game is a 
cooperative adventure game. You and your fellow Heroes must 
work as a team to succeed in the adventures that unfold within 
the castle. You either win together or lose together.
Each player selects a Hero, who has come to Barovia to discover 
the secrets of Castle Ravenloft. Choose from the Dragonborn 
Fighter, Human Rogue, Dwarf Cleric, Eladrin Wizard, and Hu-
man Ranger. Heroes explore the dungeons beneath the castle, 
solve mysteries, fight Monsters, and uncover magic treasure.
The game runs the Traps, Events, Monsters, and Villains con-
tained within the halls of Castle Ravenloft (with a little help 
from you).
Inspired by the original Dungeons & Dragons® Roleplaying Game adventure by Tracy and Laura Hickman.
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, WIZARDS OF THE COAST, Castle Ravenloft, all other Wizards of the Coast product names, and their respective 
logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast in the U.S.A. and other countries. All Wizards characters, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are 
property of Wizards of the Coast LLC. This material is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of Wizards of the Coast LLC. 
This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, organizations, places, or events included herein is purely coincidental. Printed in 
the U.S.A. ©2010 Wizards of the Coast LLC.
300-20779000-001 EN 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1	
First Printing: August 2010	
ISBN 978-0-7869-5557-2 
Visit our website at www.DungeonsandDragons.com
Components
1 Dungeon Tile “Start” Tile	
40 interlocking Dungeon Tiles
5 Hero Figures	
7 Villain Figures
30 Monster Figures	
5 Hero Cards
4 Villain Cards	
1 die
60 Encounter Cards	
50 Power Cards
30 Monster Cards	
5 Sequence of Play Cards
5 Adventure Cards	
50 Treasure Cards
10 Condition Tokens	
40 Monster Tokens
70 Hit Point Tokens	
10 Coffin Tokens
10 Monster Damage Tokens	
1 Sun Token
3 Clound Tokens	
17 Item Tokens
1 Character Token	
5 Healing Surge Tokens
5 Time Tokens	
12 Trap and Power Markers
6 Reaction Tokens	
1 Dragon’s Breath Token
1 Mistform Token	
1 Rulebook
1 Adventure Book

Start Tile
Tiles and Squares
It’s important to understand the difference between a full tile 
and the squares on each tile. Game cards refer to both tiles and 
to squares. 
A tile is the basic building block of the dungeon crypts, drawn 
from the Dungeon Tile stack.
A square is one of the spaces on a Dungeon Tile.
Taking Turns
Play progresses around the table, starting with a player of the 
group’s choice and then proceeding clockwise. You can also roll 
the die and let the player who rolled highest go first.
Your turn consists of three phases, one for your Hero, one for 
Exploration, and a Villain Phase for the Monsters and Traps in 
your control.
Winning the Game
You win by completing the objective in the adventure you are 
playing. For example, you might have to destroy an evil dragon 
in one adventure, while in another you must find a magic arti-
fact and escape from the dungeon.
Unless stated otherwise in an adventure, you lose if any Hero 
is at 0 Hit Points at the start of that Hero’s turn and there are 
no Healing Surge tokens left to play. You also lose if you are 
defeated by the adventure you are playing. Each adventure lists 
its specific victory and defeat requirements.
Game Setup
To start playing the Dungeons & Dragons: Castle Ravenloft 
Board Game:
	 ✦	Shuffle the Monster Cards into their own deck. Do the 
	 	 same for the Encounter Cards and Treasure Cards. Place 
	 	 these three decks in easy reach of all the players.
	 ✦	Give each player a “Sequence of Play” card as a reminder 
	 	 of how play proceeds.
	 ✦	Place the die and the various Monster, Villain, and Hero 
	 	 figures in easy reach.
	 ✦	Pick an adventure from the Adventure Book. If you’re 
	 	 playing your first game alone, the best way to learn the 
	 	 game is by using the first adventure, “Escape the Tomb.” 
	 	 If you’re playing your first game with friends, play the 
	 	 second adventure, “Find the Icon of Ravenloft.”
	 ✦	Each player chooses one of the five 1st-level Heroes. When 
	 	 you choose a Hero, take that Hero’s Hero Card, the Power 
	 	 Cards for that Hero, and the figure that matches the Hero. 
	 	 The rules presented in the adventures and on the cards 
	 	 refer to the players as “Heroes.”
	 ✦	Each Hero Card tells you how many and which Power 
	 	 Cards you can choose for that Hero. In your early games, 
	 	 use the Power Cards suggested at the front of the 
	 	 Adventure Book. (See page 14 for how to choose Power 
	 	 Cards in later games.) Set aside any Power Cards that 
	 	 aren’t used in this adventure.
	 ✦	Each player also draws a Treasure Card. These cards 
	 	 represent items and advantages that you acquired on 
	 	 previous adventures. You’ll get more Treasure Cards as you 
	 	 play the game.
	 ✦	Set up the Dungeon Tile stack (the deck of tiles), the 
	 	 starting tile, and any Quest tiles based on the setup 
	 	 instructions in the adventure you have selected. You are 
	 	 now ready to begin play. The adventure you have chosen 
	 	 tells you any other rules you need in the “Special 
	 	 Adventure Rules” section, or any rules that change the 
	 	 general game rules presented in this book.
The Dungeon Tile Stack
You use the Dungeon Tiles (referred to as the Dungeon Tile 
stack) to build the crypts beneath Castle Ravenloft. Each time 
you play, the crypts have a different layout. The labyrinthine 
passages beneath the castle are said to be endless. Others 
believe that Strahd’s magic causes the crypts to shift and move 
around each time mortals dare to enter them.
Each Dungeon Tile features a bone pile (the square where Mon-
sters are placed) and a white or black triangle (used to distin-
guish between less dangerous and more dangerous tiles). Many 
tiles have walls, a few tiles have other special features, and 
some tiles have names to distinguish them for use in certain 
adventures.
The Start tile: The Start tile is where the Heroes usually enter 
the crypts and begin their adventure. It’s twice the size of the 
other tiles in the stack. The Start tile actually consists of two 
separate tiles that are already connected; treat each as its own 
tile for the purposes of movement and counting tiles.
Unexplored Edge: Sometimes the rules refer to an “unexplored 
edge” of a Dungeon Tile. This is shorthand for a tile edge where 
you could place a new tile (the edge of a tile that is open and 
doesn’t have another tile adjacent to it).
Diagonal Movement: You can usually move diagonally when 
you are moving by squares, unless your path is blocked. You 
cannot move diagonally when moving by tiles. This is a subtle 
but important difference. The easy way to remember it is this: 
if you are counting squares, you can move diagonally, even 
between tiles. If you are counting tiles, you never count 
diagonally; you have to move in straight lines instead of 
diagonal lines when you count tiles.
 An unexplored edge is an edge of a tile without a wall that is not 
adjacent to another tile. There are 6 unexplored edges in this 
diagram, highlighted in blue.
A tile is a component of the game board, highlighted in yellow. 
A square is a part of a tile, highlighted in red. The start tile is a 
special tile: it is treated as two tiles.
When counting tiles, you do not count diagonally and you count 
around tiles. The Skeleton, for example, is 3 tiles away from the 
wizard.

A
B
C
D
Movement
During your turn, your Hero moves through the dungeon crypt 
to attack Monsters, explore, and achieve the adventure’s objec-
tive. Use the following rules for movement.
When Do You Move?
You usually move during the Hero Phase of your turn.
The effect of a Power Card, Treasure Card, or Encounter Card 
can make you move at other times, as well.
How Do You Move?
Your Hero moves according to his or her Speed. Your Speed is the 
number of squares you can move your Hero during your turn.
Think of your Hero’s Speed as your movement budget. Each 
time you move a square, you spend 1 point from that budget. 
When you have no more Speed left, you can’t move any more. 
Each turn, you can spend up to your Speed budget to move and 
then make an attack, or you can move twice.
	 ✦	You can move in any direction, including diagonally, as long 
	 	 as you have the necessary Speed to spend.
	 ✦	You can’t move into a square filled with a wall.
	 ✦	You can’t move into a square occupied by a Monster.
	 ✦	You can move through a square occupied by a Hero, but 
	 	 you can’t end your movement there.
Exploration Phase
This is the phase in which you add new Dungeon Tiles, draw 
Monster Cards, and place Monsters.
	 1.	If your Hero occupies an unexplored edge space 
	 	 (see page 5), go on to Step 2.
If you aren’t on an unexplored edge space, you aren’t in position 
to draw and place a new Dungeon Tile. In this case, go on to 
the Villain Phase.
	 2.	Draw a Dungeon Tile and place it with its triangle pointing 
	 	 to the unexplored edge of the tile you are exploring from.
	 3.	Place a Monster on the new tile (see the sidebar below).
When you have finished all the steps in your Exploration Phase, 
your Villain Phase begins.
Hero’s Name, Race, Class, and Level: This line shows you 
	
what fantastic race and character class your Hero belongs to, 
	
as well as his or her level of experience (see page 14).
	
Armor Class: The Hero’s defense score. An attack hits the 
	
Hero if it equals or exceeds this number (see page 9).
	
Hit Points: The Hero’s health. Damage reduces the Hero’s 
	
Hit Points (see page 10). You can never regain more Hit 
	
Points that your Hit Point total.
	
Speed: The number of squares the Hero can move by using 
	
a single move action (see page 7).
	
Surge Value: When a Hero is at 0 Hit Points, he or she must 
	
use a Healing Surge token at the start of his or her next Hero 
	
Phase. When used, the Hero recovers this number of Hit 
	
Points (see page 10).
	
Special Ability: Each Hero has a Special Ability, as 
	
described here.
	
Powers: This tells you how many of each type of Power 
	
Card you can select for use in an adventure, as well as any 
	
Power Cards the Hero automatically gets to use (see page 8).
Player Turn
Each player’s turn consists of three phases. On your turn, com-
plete these phases in this order:
	 ✦	Hero Phase
	 ✦	Exploration Phase
	 ✦	Villain Phase
Hero Phase
This is the phase in which your Hero moves through the dun-
geon and makes attacks against the Monsters you encounter 
along the way.
	 1.	If you have 0 Hit Points, use a Healing Surge token if one is 
	 	 available (see page 10).
	 2. Perform one of the following actions:
	 	 ✦ Move and then make an Attack.
	 	 ✦ Attack and then Move.
	 	 ✦ Make two Moves.
When you hav e finished all the steps in your Hero Phase, your 
Exploration Phase begins.
Player SetUp
Place your Hero Card (1st level), your Power Cards, and your 
Treasure Card face up in front of you.
As you acquire more Treasure Cards, they also go face up in 
front of you.
As you acquire Monster Cards and Trap Cards, place them to 
one side of your Hero Card, in the order in which you received 
them.
The Hero Card
Here’s what a Hero Card looks like. The parts of a Hero Card are 
briefly described here and explained in detail on the listed page 
of this book.
When you have to “place a Monster,” this is shorthand for 
draw a Monster Card and place the corresponding Monster 
figure on the bone pile that’s on the Dungeon Tile you just 
placed. If you already have the same Monster Card in play 
in front of you, discard that Monster Card and draw again. 
Note, however, that it’s okay to draw a Monster Card if 
another player has the same Monster in play.
Villain Phase
This is the phase in which you draw and play Encounter Cards, 
as well as when you activate the Villain (if the Villain is in play) 
and any Monster and Trap Cards you may have.
	 1.	If you didn’t place a Dungeon Tile in your Exploration 
	 	 Phase, or if you placed a Dungeon Tile with a black 
	 	 triangle, draw and play an Encounter Card.
	 2.	If the Villain is in play, activate the Villain. (There may be 
	 	 more than one Villain in play, depending on the adventure. 
	 	 In this case, activate each Villain, one at a time.)
	 3.	Activate each Monster and Trap Card, in turn, in the order 
	 	 you drew them. Follow the tactics on the Monster Card to 
	 	 determine what each Monster does on its turn. If there 
	 	 is more than one Monster with the exact same name in 
	 	 play, activate each of those Monsters on your turn. So, if 	
	 	 you have a Kobold Monster Card and another player has 
	 	 a Kobold Monster Card, you activate both Kobolds 
	 	 during your Villain Phase. If both Monsters survive until 
	 	 the other player’s Villian Phase, that player will activate 	
	 	 both Kobolds again!
When you are done with your Villain Phase, the player to your 
left begins his or her turn.
You can move to any square, even diagonal ones, with a few minor 
exceptions. You cannot enter a square with a monster (A). You can 
move around walls but cannot enter a wall square (B). You cannot 
move between two adjacent walls (C). You cannot end your move in 
another hero’s square (D).

Condition: Immobilized
A ghoul’s paralyzing claws infect a Hero with a deadly toxin that 
stops him from moving. A magical trap blasts an area with ice, 
freezing a Hero in place. These attacks and others like them 
immobilize Heroes.
	 ✦	If an attack or other effect causes your Hero to become 
	 	 Immobilized, put an Immobilized marker on your 
	 	 Hero Card.
	 ✦	If your Hero is Immobilized, your Speed is reduced 
	 	 to 0—you can’t move!
	 ✦	At the end of your Hero Phase, discard the 
	 	 Immobilized marker.
Utility Powers
Utility powers are special maneuvers that don’t actively attack 
Monsters, but instead provide other advantages. These advan-
tages include a specialized move or the ability to counter a 
Monster’s attack. Many of these powers don’t require an Attack 
action to use, but instead specify an alternate time to use the 
ability. When you use a Utility power, you flip it over and cannot 
use it again until some other effect (usually a Treasure Card) 
allows you to flip it back up.
Condition: Slowed
A spider’s web wraps around a Hero, making it difficult for 
the Hero to get away. A massive nets falls from the ceiling and 
entangles the Hero in ropes. These attacks and others like them 
slow Heroes.
	 ✦	If an attack or other effect causes your Hero to become 	
	
	 	 Slowed, put a Slowed marker on your Hero Card.
	 ✦	If your Hero is Slowed, your Speed is reduced to 2.
	 ✦	At the end of your Hero Phase, discard the 
	 	 Slowed marker.
Combat
As you explore the dungeon crypt, skeletons, zombies, and oth-
er Monsters emerge from the shadowy recesses to oppose you. 
You need to battle your way past these creatures to complete 
the adventure using your Hero’s attacks and magic items.
Targeting
When you decide to attack, first determine which Monsters you 
can target. A power specifies what Monsters you can attack, 
ranging from only Monsters in an adjacent square to a Monster 
as far as 3 tiles away.
Remember the difference between squares and tiles when 
making attacks (see page 5).
Most important, keep in mind that you can never trace a 
diagonal path between tiles. If a power lets you attack a 
Monster within 1 tile of you, that does not include Monsters 
on a Dungeon Tile that is diagonal to yours. You also cannot 
attack a Monster within 1 tile of you if a wall completely blocks 
paths between your tile and the Monster’s tile.
Armor Class
The Armor Class of a Hero or a Monster determines how dif-
ficult it is to hit. It represents a combination of physical armor, 
agility, and natural toughness.
Attack Bonus
Most attack powers and Monster attacks have an Attack Bonus. 
A power with a higher Attack Bonus is more likely to hit than 
one with a lower bonus.
Making an Attack
For each enemy a Hero’s power or a Monster’s attack targets, 
roll the die and add the power’s Attack Bonus.
If the result of the die roll plus the bonus is equal to or greater 
than the target’s Armor Class, the attack hits.
If a creature with a base larger than one square is on more than 
one tile, it counts as being on all the tiles that the base is on. For 
example, Gravestorm the Dracolich counts as being on all the blue 
tiles. All the green tiles are one tile away from Gravestorm.
Attacks
A Hero makes attacks using either his or her powers or the 
power of certain magic items found among the Treasure Cards. 
A Hero’s powers represent physical training, arcane spells, and 
divine prayers, depending on a Hero’s class.
At the start of every adventure, you select Power Cards that 
you have available for that adventure. Set the remaining Power 
Cards aside. For your first few adventures, use the Power Cards 
listed at the front of the Adventure Book. Once you become 
familiar with the game, you can select which Power Cards you 
want to use.
Whenever you attack, you pick a power you have in front of 
you (either from a Power Card or a Treasure Card) and use it as 
described in Combat (see page 9).
Daily Powers
Daily powers represent a significant drain of physical stamina 
or magical energy for a spectacular effect. When you use a daily 
power, you flip it over and cannot use it again until some other 
effect (usually a Treasure Card) allows you to flip it back up. Daily 
powers are the strongest attacks you have access to in the game.
At-Will Powers
At-will powers are relatively simple attacks, spells, or prayers. 
Using an at-will power requires no special effort. It is weaker 
than a daily power, so when you use it you do not flip it over. 
You can use it again on your next turn.

Hit Point Token
Monster Token
Healing Surge Token
Defeating Monsters
If a Monster’s Hit Points are reduced to 0, the Monster is 
defeated. Remove its figure from the tile. The player controlling 
that Monster discards the Monster Card into the Experience 
Pile (see page 14). If more than one Hero controls that type of 
Monster, the player who made the attack discards the card if 
he or she controls one of those Monsters. If not, go clockwise 
around the table. The first player you reach who controls one of 
those Monsters discards that Monster Card.
When your Hero defeats a Monster, draw a Treasure Card (see 
page 13). You can only draw one Treasure Card per turn, no 
matter how many Monsters you defeat during that turn.
Defeating Heroes
When a Hero is reduced to 0 Hit Points, keep the Hero’s figure 
on the tile. Knock the figure on its side to show that the Hero 
is at 0 Hit Points. Monsters ignore the downed Hero, and the 
Hero cannot take any additional damage or use any powers or 
items. Other effects, such as Slowed or Immobilized, still apply 
to the Hero. If the Hero is healed before the start of his or her 
turn, stand the figure up—the Hero is back in the fight and can 
use powers and items normally.
A Hero that starts his or her turn at 0 Hit Points must spend 
a Healing Surge token. If there are no Healing Surge tokens 
remaining, the Heroes lose the adventure.
Damage
If an attack hits, it deals the listed damage to the Monster or 
Hero. Damage that reduces a Monster’s Hit Points to 0 defeats 
that Monster. Damage that does not reduce a Monster or Hero 
to 0 Hit Points stays on that Monster or Hero (use the Hit Point 
tokens to track that damage). Some Monsters have powers 
that let them heal damage. Many Hero powers allow you to 
heal varying amounts of damage that one or more Heroes 
have suffered.
Healing Surges
A Healing Surge represents a Hero’s ability to fight on against 
overwhelming odds. Despite pain and injuries, a Hero can push 
forward to continue the battle. The Heroes begin the game with 
two Healing Surge tokens. These tokens are a resource that the 
entire group shares. You use Healing Surge tokens to revive a 
Hero that has been reduced to 0 Hit Points.
	 ✦	If your Hero is at 0 Hit Points at the start of your turn, you 
	 	 must use a Healing Surge token. Discard one Healing Surge 
	 	 token and regain Hit Points equal to your Hero’s surge 
	 	 value. You then take your turn as normal. 
	 ✦	If there are no Healing Surge tokens remaining when you 
	 	 start your turn at 0 Hit Points, the Heroes lose the 
	 	 adventure and the game ends.
The Monster Deck
The Monster Deck randomly determines the Monsters that 
cross the Heroes’ path as you explore the dungeon crypt.
Each Monster Card also summarizes a Monster’s defenses and 
attacks.
	
Monster Name and Type: This shows the name of the 
	
creature and what kind of creature it is.
	
AC: This is the Monster’s Armor Class, its defense score 
	
(see page 9).
	
HP: This is the Monster’s Hit Points, its health score 
	
(see “Damage” page 10).
	
Special Ability: If the Monster has a special ability, it is 	
	
shown here.
	
Experience: This is how many Experience Points the 
	
Monster is worth when you defeat it (see page 14).
	
Monster Tactics: Each Monster card provides a Monster’s 	
	
tactics. The tactics are a script that shows you what 
	
the Monster does when you activate it during your 
	
Villain Phase.
	 ✦	The Monster’s tactics are presented as a list. Each possible 
	 	 maneuver for the Monster starts with a statement. If that 
	 	 statement is true, the Monster follows the resulting tactics.
	 ✦	If the statement is not true, go on to the next statement. 
	 	 The final entry in the tactics list is a default action that the 
	 	 Monster follows if nothing else is true.
	 ✦	Once a Monster has selected and followed one set of 
	 	 tactics, the Monster’s turn ends. Do not continue to check 
	 	 its remaining tactics that turn.

The Treasure Deck
The Treasure Deck represents the magic items and other 
valuables you can find hidden in the dungeon crypts. Strahd is 
both powerful and greedy, as are his minions. When you defeat 
a Monster, you gain a Treasure Card (though you only get one 
Treasure Card per turn, even if you defeat more than one Mon-
ster during that turn).
When you use a Treasure Card, follow the rules listed on it. The 
Treasure Card also explains when you can use it.
There are three types of Treasure Cards:
Blessings are played immediately and last until the end of your 
next turn. They provide a benefit to all Heroes while they are in 
play. Discard a Blessing Treasure Card at the end of your next 
turn.
Fortunes are played immediately and provide an immediate 
benefit. If the benefit has no effect, nothing happens. Discard a 
Fortune Treasure Card immediately.
Items provide a lasting benefit. When you draw an Item from 
the Treasure Deck, decide if you want to keep it for your Hero 
or if you want to give it to another Hero. Once you’ve decided 
who gets the Item, you can’t give it to another Hero later.
You can benefit from multiple Treasure Cards in play that apply 
to your Hero. For example, you can use a Blessing, a Fortune, 
and an Item to increase the bonus to an attack roll so that you 
can boost a single attack.
The Encounter Deck
The Encounter Deck represents the Events, deadly Environ-
ments, Traps, and other threats that inhabit the dungeon crypts 
beneath Castle Ravenloft. There are several types of Encounter 
Cards, each with its own special rules. Whenever you draw an 
Encounter Card, apply its effects immediately.
Note that you can cancel an Encounter Card before applying its 
effects by using Experience Points (see page 14).
Active Hero: Some Encounter Cards use the phrase “active 
Hero”. The Hero played by the player who drew the card is 
always the active Hero that the card refers to.
Environment: An Environment Card represents a major change 
in the dungeon crypts. Bats might swarm through the corridors, 
or a cloud of thick mist might swirl from chamber to chamber. 
The effects of an Environment Card apply to all Heroes. Place 
the Environment Card where everyone can see it.
If you draw an Environment Card and there is already one in 
play, discard the old Environment Card and replace it with the 
new one.
You can cancel an Environment Card with Experience Points, 
just like any other Encounter Card (see page 14). If you cancel 
a new Environment Card when there is already one in play, you 
do not discard the card that was already in play.
Events: An Event Card is a strange occurrence, a dreadful sight 
or sound, or some other incident that befalls your Hero. An 
Event takes place when you draw the card unless you cancel 
it with Experience Points. Once you have resolved the Event, 
discard it.
Most Events are yellow cards. A few Events include an attack 
roll against one or more Heroes. These events appear on red 
cards and are called Event—Attacks to distinguish them from 
the Events that don’t include an attack roll.
Trap: A Trap is a snare or other mechanical device placed in the 
dungeon crypt to defeat the Heroes. Each Trap Card has a corre-
sponding marker. When you draw a Trap Card, place the Trap’s 
marker on the active Hero’s tile. If there is already a Trap there, 
discard the Trap you just drew and draw another Encounter 
Card.
After placing the Trap marker, put the Trap Card in front of 
you with any other Monster Cards and Trap Cards you have 
acquired. When you take your Villain Phase, the Trap activates 
like a Monster. Unlike a Monster, Traps lack tactics. Instead, a 
Trap takes the actions listed on its card. A Trap might attack all 
the Heroes on its tile, or it might attack the Hero closest to it. A 
Trap attacks just like a Monster.
Disabling Traps: While a Hero is on a tile with a Trap, he or she 
can attempt to disable that Trap instead of making an attack. If 
you roll the number listed on the Trap Card or higher, discard 
the Trap and its marker.

Leveling Up
Whenever a Hero rolls a natural 20 when making an attack roll 
or a disable trap roll, that player can choose to spend 5 Experi-
ence Points to become 2nd level! Flip your 1st-level Hero Card 
over to become 2nd-level. Leveling up to 2nd level increases 
your Hit Points by 2, and your Armor Class and Surge Value by 
1. It also allows you to choose a new Daily power, and you gain 
the special ability to make critical attacks (shown on the Hero 
Card).
In addition to the natural roll of 20, the Level up Treasure Card 
also provides an opportunity to level up your Hero.
Rules for Later 
Adventures
Once you have played the first two adventures and are com-
fortable with the rules, try the rest of the adventures in the 
Adventure Book. Here are rules for your later games.
Choosing Power Cards
Once you have a better understanding of the game, you don’t 
have to stick to the suggested Power Cards for your Hero listed 
in the front of the Adventure Book. Each 1st-Level Hero Card 
tells you how many powers of each type you get—you can 
choose between two good methods of selecting exactly which 
At-Will, Utility, and Daily Power Cards you get for any particular 
adventure. Your group can agree on the method it wants to use 
or each player can choose the method to use.
For a slightly easier game, go ahead and choose the Power 
Cards you want. This way you can set up the perfect balance of 
powers and you’ll know exactly what to expect from your Hero.
For a slightly more challenging game, choose your Power Card 
in each category randomly. You’ll have the fun of figuring out 
how to get the most out of surprising combinations of powers 
using this method of selection.
Making Adventures More or 
Less Challenging
To make an adventure more challenging, reduce the number of 
Healing Surge tokens available to one.
To make an adventure easier, increase the number of Healing 
Surge tokens to three.
Experience Points
Heroes earn Experience Points by defeating Monsters. When 
you defeat a Monster, the Hero who controls it puts that Mon-
ster Card in the Heroes’ Experience Pile. Each Monster Card 
lists the Experience Points it provides. The tougher the Monster, 
the more Experience Points it provides.
The Heroes can spend Experience Points in two ways:
	 ✦	To cancel an Encounter Card
	 ✦	To Level Up
Canceling Encounter Cards
Canceling an Experience Card represents using the hard fought 
experience you’ve gained to avoid danger. For example, you 
spot a Trap and disable it before it activates, or you avoid an 
Event before it injures you.
Whenever you draw an Encounter Card, you can spend a total 
of 5 Experience Points (a number of Monster Cards from the 
Heroes’ Experience Pile whose Experience Points add up to 5) 
to cancel it. The cards you choose must add up to at least 5 (or 
more) Experience Points, and you can’t use any excess points 
during a later turn. Discard the cards after you spend them.
When you cancel an Encounter Card, discard it and ignore its 
effects. You can only cancel a card when you draw it. Once the 
card comes into play, you cannot cancel it on a later turn.
Example: You have three Monsters worth 3 Experience and 
one Monster worth 2 Experience in the Heroes’ Experience 
Pile. If you want to cancel an Encounter Card, you could spend 
one 3-point Monster Card and the 2-point Monster Card. That 
would leave you with two 3-point Monster Cards. If you then 
wanted to cancel another Encounter Card, you would have to 
spend the two 3-point Monsters. Even though you have 6 total 
Experience Points and need to spend only 5, you don’t have the 
right mix of cards to make exactly 5. The extra point is wasted 
and both cards are discarded, though you still cancel 
the Encounter Card.

A
D&D
® ADVENTURE SYSTEM
COOPERATIVE GAME