PREMIUM VERSION RULEBOOK
Established superpowers vie for newly discovered power sources to fuel their 
war machines. The Premium game is playable in two to three hours.

The Story of Dust............................3
Components...................................4
Overview.........................................5
Setup..............................................6
The Figures...................................10
The Cards..................................... 11
The Game Round.........................12
The Initiative Step.........................12
The Player Turn............................12
 The Production Phase...............12
 The Movement Phase................14
 Land Movement......................14
 Sea Movement........................15
 Amphibious Movement...........15
 Strategic Bomber Movement..15
 The Combat Phase....................16
 First-turn Restrictions..............17
 Attacking Capitals...................17
 Neutral Units...........................17
 The Victory Point Phase............17
Victory...........................................18
Battle.............................................18
 Land Battles...............................19
 Sea Battles................................20
 Amphibious Battles....................20
 Retreating..................................20
 Special Attacks..........................21
 First-turn Restrictions.................21
Special Abilities.............................22
Credits..........................................24
TABLE OF CONTENTS

 
The Schwabenland Expedition
In the year 1938, the scientific 
ship Schwabenland, its German 
flag flapping in the fierce, cold wind, 
approached the remote Antarctic Circle 
on a secret mission. Even today, no 
one knows exactly what its original 
assignment was, but what it discovered 
dazed the entire world.
And the World Was 
Not the Same…
Returning to its homeland, the 
Schwabenland brought back the relics 
of an alien starship and a member of 
its crew… still alive! While the world 
continued to fall down its chasm 
of global conflict, a select team of 
scientists covertly studied the potential 
military applications of the Antarctic 
discovery. But their secret would not 
last long.
Nuclear Stop, Alien Tech
An underground war, parallel 
to the war in the open, was soon 
underway. Spies launched undercover 
operations, fighting to steal control and 
understanding of the alien technology. 
The brightest minds in the world 
pursued the new science, setting aside 
the research that might have led to 
atomic weapons.
Before long, occultists and experts in 
ancient religions joined the scientists 
in their inquiries. These fringe 
thinkers came to believe that the new 
discoveries were somehow linked to 
the ancient tale of the “Vrill Kultur.” 
But this mythic, supposedly advanced 
civilization had disappeared into the 
ancient past as nimbly as a deer in the 
woods.
The VK Mines
The alien traveler soon shed more 
light on the theorists’ studies. Vrill 
Kultur, they came to understand, was 
not a civilization, but a massively 
powerful energy source. “VK,” which 
could be mined only at certain locations 
around the globe, was so rare and 
precious that the alien had braved 
interstellar travel to claim it.
The New Weapons and the 
End of the Coalitions
By the time the locations of the VK 
deposits were discovered, and mining 
had begun, scientists had devised a 
multitude of ways to put it to use on the 
battlefield.
But the geographical distribution of 
the VK mines turned existing alliances 
and coalitions on their heads. The 
geopolitical balance of the entire planet 
stood on a knife edge.
The Dawn of Dust
History has been re-written.
Now, it’s the dawn for a new era, with 
new strategies, new weapons, new 
armies.
It’s the dawn of Dust.
THE STORY OF DUST

Components
Dust comes with the following 
components:
Game Board
The game board consists of six jigsaw 
pieces which, when assembled, form a map 
of the world. The circles on the board are 
called areas, and are connected by lines 
that indicate which areas are adjacent to 
each other. Note that some of these lines 
connect areas near the western edge of the 
board with areas near its eastern edge.
Every area is either a land area or sea 
area. Note that the lines that connect a land 
area to a sea area are dotted rather than 
solid.
Six of the land areas are capitals; they 
are larger, maroon-colored circles. Finally, 
sixteen of the areas – some on land and 
some in the sea – are marked with a bull’s-
eye pattern. These are power source 
areas, or power sources.
The game board also has a victory point 
track along its bottom edge, used to record 
players’ progress toward winning the game.
Military Units
The six different armies’ military units are 
differentiated from each other by color. Each 
army has the following mix of units:
60 tanks
20 mechs
20 fighters
15 bombers
15 submarines
Players are prohibited from putting more 
units into play than these limits allow.
Production Centers
In addition to the plastic figures 
representing the player’s armies, there are 
twenty-four production center figures. All 
production centers are a common color, and 
like military units, players may not place 
more production centers into play than the 
24-piece component limit allows.
Cards
A deck of forty-five cards governs 
many aspects of play. Cards help players 
determine how much they can build on a 
RULES OF PLAY

given turn, how far they can move, how 
many times they can attack, in what order 
they act, and which of several different 
special abilities they can use.
Dice
Dust uses special six-sided dice. Two 
faces of each die bear a “hit” symbol, while 
the other four sides are blank. The game 
comes with ten of these dice, but this is not 
a limit to the number that can be rolled in 
play. If players ever need to roll more than 
ten dice at a time, they should simply note 
the first ten results, then continue rolling 
the same dice again, as many times as are 
required.
Tokens
Three types of cardboard tokens help 
players keep track of the number of victory 
points they will score at the end of each 
turn. In addition, there are three blank 
tokens that can be used to replace any lost 
or missing tokens.
Power Source Tokens (16): These 
tokens correspond to the power source 
areas on the game board.
Capital Tokens (6): These tokens 
correspond to the six capital areas on the 
game board.
Majority Tokens (3): These tokens 
correspond to the three “majorities” that are 
tracked from turn to turn: the production 
majority, sea majority, and land majority.
Reference Sheets
Three identical reference sheets 
summarize important information to which 
players may want to refer during play.
Rulebook
The Dust rules of play are found in this 
rulebook.
Overview
After setup, the game is played over 
a number of rounds. Each game round 
begins with each player secretly choosing 
one card from his hand. All chosen cards 
are then simultaneously revealed. Each 
player’s card determines when he will act in 
the coming round, how many of his units he 
will be able to move, how many attacks he 
will be able to launch, and which one of ten 
different special abilities he will be able to 
use. The chosen card also influences how 
many units he will be able to build.
Once cards have been revealed, 
players take their player turns in the 
order determined by their cards. Each 
player’s turn consists of three phases: the 
production phase, the movement phase, 
and the combat phase. In his production 
phase, a player brings new units onto the 
board. During his movement phase, he 
moves units among friendly and unoccupied 
areas. During his combat phase, he attacks 
areas held by his enemies.
Finally, once all players have taken their 
turns, all players simultaneously score the 
victory points to which they are entitled, 
moving their markers along the victory point 
track along the bottom edge of the game 
board.
If no player has won the game at this point 
– by achieving a particular victory point total 
based on the number of players in the game 
– a new game round begins.

Setup
To prepare to play Dust, follow the steps 
listed below.
1. The Board
Assemble the game board in the center of 
the table.
2. The Deck
Shuffle the deck of cards and deal six 
to each player. Each player looks at his 
cards and secretly chooses one of them. 
All players’ chosen cards are then revealed 
simultaneously.
The revealed cards are then used to 
determine the players’ setup order. The 
player whose card’s combat value is highest 
is the first player, the player whose combat 
value is next highest is the second player, 
and so on. (See “Card Breakdown” on page 
11 for a guide to the elements printed on 
each card.) Combat value ties are broken 
by the cards’ movement values. Further ties 
are broken by the number of stars at the 
bottom of the card.
Each player’s remaining cards – of which 
there should be five – form the hand of 
cards with which he will start the game.
3. Capitals
Once the setup order has been 
determined, all players, acting in order, 
choose an army color, take all the units of 
that color from the box, and claim a capital 
by placing one of his tank figures on it.
If there are two, three, or four players, 
there are restrictions on how capitals may 
be claimed. These restrictions are based on 
the six capitals’ pairings. Two capitals are a 
pair if they are adjacent to each other.
Two-player Game: The second player 
may not claim the capital that is paired with 
the capital the first player chose.
Three-player Game: No player may 
choose a capital that is paired with a capital 
chosen by an earlier player.
Four-player Game: Once capitals from 
two different pairs have been chosen, no 
player may choose a capital from the third 
pairing. (That is, each player’s capital will 
wind up adjacent to another player’s capital, 
with the two unclaimed capitals also being 
an adjacent pair.)
Once all players have claimed capitals, 
each unclaimed capital is stocked with a 
neutral army. Place one tank figure of an 
unclaimed color, one mech figure of the 
same color, and one production center on 
each unclaimed capital.
Finally, each player places one of his tanks 
near the beginning of the victory point track. 
This figure will track his victory point score 
throughout the game.
4. Land Areas
Next, all players, acting in order, take 
turns placing single tanks on unoccupied 
land areas, until all land areas have been 
claimed in this way.
That is, the first player claims a single land 
area by placing a tank on it, then the second 
player claims a land area by placing a single 
tank on it, and so on. The first player follows 
the last player in sequence, until all land 
areas are occupied by a single tank.
Each time a player places a tank on a 
power source area, he should take one 
power source token, placing it in front of him 
on the table, near his unused units.
Tip: Power sources are very important to 
winning, because they provide victory points 
and limit the number of production facilities 
a player can use. It is usually wise to claim 
as many power sources as possible in this 
setup phase!
5. Production Centers
Next, all players, acting in order, take turns 
placing production centers on land areas 
where they have tanks, until each player 
has placed three production centers. Each 
player places one production center at a 
time, so this will result in three rounds of 
placement.
Multiple production centers may not be 
placed in the same area, and production 
centers may not be placed on power source 
areas at all.

Tip: When placing production centers, be 
aware that it is possible for your opponents 
to take over your production centers during 
play by invading the areas where they’re 
located and eliminating all of your defending 
units. Losing production centers this way 
can hurt you a lot, so make sure you place 
your production centers in areas you will be 
able to vigorously defend.
6. Reinforcements
Next, all players select and place on the 
board a number of reinforcement units.
Each player builds a number of units 
whose total cost is equal to twelve plus 
the production value of the card he played 
in step two, above. These units may be 
placed on any area or areas where the 
player placed a production center (or, for 
submarines, on sea areas adjacent to such 
spaces), according to the normal rules for 
building units. For more information on unit 
costs, and the legal placement of purchased 
units, see “The Production Phase” on page 
12.
Each player places all of his reinforcement 
units at once. The first player goes first, 
followed by the second player, and so on. 
Players may not place reinforcement units 
in areas already occupied by other players 
(which would only be possible in the case 
of sea areas adjacent to multiple factories 
owned by different players). Players also 
may not place reinforcement units in areas 
occupied by neutral units.
If submarine placement in this step 
results in a player claiming a sea area that 
is also a power source area, that player 
takes a corresponding power source token 
immediately, as players who claimed land-
based power source areas earlier did.
Once the reinforcements setup step is 
complete, all players discard the card they 
chose in setup step two, and the first game 
See pages 8–9 for a graphic depicting an 
example table, set for play. 

The Figures
The sections that follow describe the 
different plastic figures in Dust, both 
military units and production centers. The 
descriptions include the following statistics, 
which are all described in greater detail later 
in these rules:
Cost: The number of production points a 
player must pay to build one such figure.
Combat Value: The number of dice the 
unit allows its owner to roll in battle.
Tactical Supremacy: The number of 
points the unit contributes when tactical 
supremacy is calculated at the beginning of 
a battle.
The descriptions also specify whether a 
given unit is a land unit, air unit, or sea 
unit. These distinctions are described later.
Tanks
Cost: 2 • Combat Value: 1 
Tactical Supremacy: 0
Tanks are the most basic 
military units. They are 
inexpensive, and capable of 
shielding mech units (which are both more 
capable and more expensive than tanks) 
from destruction when the two types of units 
fight together. Tanks are land units.
Mechs
Cost: 5 • Combat Value: 2 
Mechs are elite units with 
considerable power in battle. 
They are land units.
Fighters
Cost: 3 • Combat Value: 1 
Fighters are the most 
economical air units. In 
addition to contributing 
inexpensively to a side’s tactical supremacy, 
they are capable of protecting bombers in 
the same way that tanks protect mechs. 
Fighters are air units.
Bombers
Cost: 6 • Combat Value: 2 
Bombers are the most 
expensive – and powerful 
– of all combat units. Their 
mobility is not restricted by many of the 
normal rules for movement (see “Strategic 
Bomber Movement” on page 15), and they 
are capable of making special attacks 
against submarines. Bombers are air units.
Submarines
Cost: 4 • Combat Value: 1 
Tactical Supremacy: —
Each submarine figure 
represents a complete fleet 
of vessels of various types. 
They allow players to convoy land units 
and air units across intervening sea areas 
(see “Amphibious Movement” on page 15), 
and can make special attacks against units 
occupying land areas to which they are 
adjacent (see “Special Submarine Attacks” 
on page 21). Submarines do not have a 
tactical supremacy value, because it is not 
relevant to naval battles. Submarines are 
sea units.
Production Centers
Cost: 6 • Combat Value: — 
Tactical Supremacy: —
A production center is a 
factory complex capable of 
bringing military units onto the 
game board.
Production centers do not have combat 
values or tactical supremacy values per se, 
although a player defending an area where 
there is a production center rolls three 
additional combat dice in battle (see “Land 
Battles” on page 19). A production center is 
not a unit (and so is neither a land unit, air 
unit, nor sea unit).
Production centers may only be built on 
land areas, but may never be built on power 
sources.
Production centers are the only plastic 
figures that do not belong to a given player 
by virtue of their color. Rather, ownership 

of a given production center is determined 
based on which player controls the area 
where the production center is located. 
Thus, ownership of a given production 
center can change over the course of 
the game as players battle to control the 
underlying area.
Although production centers can be built 
in the course of the game (until the supply 
of figures runs out), production centers can 
never be destroyed.
Production centers in uncontrolled areas 
are not controlled by any player, and cannot 
be used to bring new units onto the board.
In games with neutral armies, each neutral 
capital has a production center. These 
neutral production centers can be used by 
any player, to bring additional neutral units 
onto the board. See “Buying Neutral Units” 
on page 14.
The Cards
All the cards in Dust have a similar 
layout, and convey five different pieces of 
information. See the “Card Breakdown” 
insert for more information.
Each player begins the game with five 
cards in his hand. (Although six are dealt 
at the beginning of setup, each player uses 
one of the six in the setup process, leaving 
five.) Additional cards are drawn only 
when players purchase them during their 
production phase.
Each player has a hand limit of five cards. 
No player may purchase cards that would 
cause the number of cards in his hand to 
exceed this limit. A player may, however, 
choose to discard any number of cards 
from his hand before purchasing cards on 
a given turn. A player may not, however, 
discard and purchase cards in several 
waves. That is, all cards a player intends to 
get rid of on a given turn must be discarded 
before any cards are purchased. Similarly, 
a player must declare how many cards he 
will purchase before he draws any of them. 
That is, he may not draw and look at some 
cards before deciding whether to purchase 
additional cards that turn. See “The 
Production Phase” on page 12 for more 
information.
If drawing ever exhausts the deck of 
cards, the discard pile should be shuffled to 
form a new draw pile.
1	 Combat Points: The number of 
separate attacks the player may 
launch this turn.
2	 Movement Points: The number of 
movements the player may make 
this turn.
3	 Production Points: A contributing 
factor in the number of units the 
player may build this turn.
4	 Tie-breaker Stars: When players 
are otherwise tied in terms of 
which one acts first, the one with 
more stars in this area goes first.
5	 Special Ability Illustration: The 
character who appears in the 
card’s illustration indicates which 
special ability the player may use 
this turn.
Card Breakdown

The Game Round
A game of Dust consists of several game 
rounds (or, simply, “rounds”). Each round 
has three major steps. First, all players 
choose a card in the initiative step. Second, 
each player takes his player turn, which 
consists of a number of individual phases. 
Finally, all players record victory points in 
the victory point step. In outline, the turn 
sequence looks like this:
1. Initiative Step
2. Player Turns
	
a. Production Phase
	
b. Movement Phase
	
c. Combat Phase
3. Victory Point Step
Each of these steps and phases is 
described in its own section of rules in the 
pages that follow.
Tip: A typical game of Dust lasts five to 
seven rounds. Don’t wait to begin attacking 
and expanding, or you may find the game 
over before your war machine can get 
rolling!
The Initiative Step
In the initiative step, each player secretly 
chooses a single card from his hand. When 
a player has chosen a card, he should hold 
it facedown in front of him. Once all players 
are holding cards in this manner, all are 
simultaneously revealed. Once revealed, 
the chosen cards remain faceup in front 
of their owners until the end of the game 
round, at which point they will be discarded.
The Player Turn
Once the initiative step is complete, player 
turns begin. In turn, each player will carry 
out his production phase, movement phase, 
and combat phase. Once a player has 
finished these three phases, the next player 
carries all three phases out, until all players 
have done so.
The order in which players take their 
player turns is determined by the cards they 
played in the initiative step. The first player 
is the player whose card’s combat value 
was highest, followed by the player whose 
card’s combat value was second highest, 
and so on. Where different players are tied, 
their card’s movement values break ties. 
Where both combat values and movement 
values are tied, the player with the most tie-
breaker stars acts first.
Note that since player order is determined 
based on the players’ card values, players 
do not take their turns in the order they are 
sitting around the table. Rather, the first 
player takes his player turn, then the second 
player takes his plaher turn, then the third 
player, and so on, until all players have take 
their player turns.
Once all players have taken their player 
turns, the game round proceeds to the 
victory points step.
The Production Phase
During his production phase, a player 
purchases new units, production centers, 
and cards, placing them either on the board 
(for units and production centers) or in his 
hand (for cards).
Units, production centers, and cards 
are purchased using production points 
(sometimes abbreviated “PP”).
Before purchasing anything, a player 
calculates his production points for the turn. 
There are three sources of points.
Production Centers: For each production 
center a player controls, he receives three 
production points, as long as he also 
controls at least that many power source 
areas. If the player does not control that 
many power source areas, the production 
points he receives from production centers 
is capped at three times the number of 
power sources he controls.
Capitals: For each capital a player 
controls, he receives six production points.
Card: The player receives the number 
of production points listed on the card he 
played during that turn’s initiative step.
To summarize, a player receives 
production points as follows:

PP = (3 x production centers*) 
+ 6 + card value
* limited by power sources
The minimum number of production points 
a player can receive in his production phase 
is six. If the regular calculation would result 
in him receiving fewer than six production 
points, he receives six points instead. 
Once a player has calculated the 
production points available to him, he splits 
up that total to purchase units of his color, 
production centers, and cards according 
to the costs listed in the Production Costs 
Summary table.
Players should pay for and set aside 
all of the figures and cards they intend to 
purchase in a given turn before placing 
any of the figures on the board or looking 
at the faces of any of the cards, to avoid 
confusion. Once a player has set aside 
all of the figures and cards he intends to 
purchase…
Newly purchased military units may 
be placed on any friendly area – i.e., 
an area where the player has at least 
one military unit – where there is a 
production center (for land and air units) 
or on any friendly sea area adjacent 
to a production center (for sea units). 
However, no more than five new units 
may be built by the same production 
center. Note that a player who has no 
production centers adjacent to sea 
areas can’t build submarines.
Newly purchased production centers 
may be played on any friendly area 
that is not a power source area, and 
that does not have a production center 
already.
Newly purchased cards are added to 
the player's hand.
Note that this order of placement means 
that newly purchased military units may not 
be placed in areas where newly purchased 
production centers are placed.
Note that a player who does not control 
any production centers at the beginning 
of his production phase cannot place any 
military units on the board in the current 
turn, and so cannot buy any.
Production points may not be saved from 
turn to turn. That is, any points not spent in 
a given turn are lost.
Tip: It is essential to defend your 
production centers. Not only are they a 
critical source of production points, they are 
the only places where new military units 
can be brought into play. If you lose your 
last production center, you are in very bad 
shape!
Once a player is done placing his newly 
purchased units, his player turn proceeds to 
the movement phase.
Example: A player begins his production 
phase. It’s the first turn of a six-player 
game, and he controls one capital as well 
Purchase 
Cost
Production Costs 
Summary

as the three production centers he placed 
during setup. He only controls two power 
sources, though, having been late in the 
setup order. The player played a card worth 
three production points this round, so he 
calculates that he is entitled to spend 15 
PP. (He would receive three per factory, 
but he doesn’t control three or more power 
sources, so his “income” from factories is 
capped at three times his power sources, or 
six. His capital is worth 6 PP in a six-player 
game. Thus, 6 + 6 + 3 = 15.)
The player sets aside one new production 
center (6 PP), two tanks (4 PP), one 
submarine (4 PP), and a card (1 PP).
Next, he places his tanks in his capital 
(where he placed one of his production 
centers during setup), and places his 
submarine in the sea area adjacent to 
another production center he controls. Then, 
he places his new production center in a 
friendly area that does not already contain 
one. Finally, he adds the card to his hand.
His production phase is over, and he 
proceeds to his movement phase.
Buying Neutral Units
In a game with neutral capitals, players 
have one additional option when purchasing 
units: they may purchase neutral military 
units in order to bolster the fortifications of 
neutral capitals. Neutral units bear the same 
production point costs as friendly units, 
but are placed in the neutral capitals to 
which they correspond, rather than in areas 
friendly to the purchasing player. (Note that 
because neutral units are always placed 
in capitals, players may not buy neutral 
submarines.)
Upon purchasing and placing a neutral 
unit on the board, a player loses “control” of 
that unit. That is, the unit becomes a neutral 
unit in all respects: it will not move over 
the course of the game, instead remaining 
forever in the capital it occupies, and will 
only do battle in that area if it is attacked.
Tip: You will probably not buy very many – 
if any – neutral units in most games of Dust. 
However, because capitals are important 
sources of both victory and production 
points, you may want to buy neutral units in 
order to better defend neutral capitals that 
might otherwise fall to your enemies.
The Movement Phase
In a player’s movement phase, he 
moves his units around the board among 
unoccupied areas and the areas he 
controls. (Moving into areas controlled by 
other players is done later, in the combat 
phase.)
Movement is governed by movement 
points. On his turn, a player may spend the 
number of movement points indicated by 
the card he played in the initiative step. He 
need not spend all of the movement points 
available to him, but may not exceed that 
number.
Note that a player may only move friendly 
units with his movement points. No player 
may move neutral or enemy units.
There are four ways movement points can 
be spent: land movement, sea movement, 
amphibious movement, and strategic 
bomber movement.
Once a player has spent all of his 
movement points (or once he has elected to 
spend no more), his player turn proceeds to 
the combat phase. Note that a player who 
announces and begins to resolve a combat 
is stating that his movement phase is over. 
Even if such a player has movement points 
remaining, he loses the ability to use them 
once he begins combat.
Tip: Make sure you’re done with all of your 
movement before announcing combat!
Land Movement
to make a single land movement.
With a single land movement, the player 
may move as many land units and/or air 
units as he likes from one single land area 
to any other single land area. However, 
a continuous path of land areas that are 
either friendly or unoccupied must connect 
the starting area and the destination area. 
Additionally, the destination area must be 
either friendly or unoccupied.
Notes about land movement:

land movement must "pick up" from the 
same area.
All of the units moved with a single land 
movement must "drop off" in the same 
area.
The path between the starting area and 
the destination area may not include 
sea areas or enemy areas.
Land and air units may be moved 
together in a single land movement, as 
long as all of the normal restrictions are 
observed.
controlled by an enemy (but may be 
empty).
Sea Movement
to make a single sea movement.
With a single sea movement, the player 
may move as many sea units as he likes 
from one single sea area to any other 
single sea area. However, a continuous 
path of sea areas that are either friendly or 
unoccupied must connect the starting area 
and the destination area. Additionally, the 
destination area must be either friendly or 
unoccupied.
Notes about sea movement:
sea movement must "pick up" from the 
same area.
All of the units moved with a single sea 
movement must "drop off" in the same 
area.
The path between the starting area and 
the destination area may not include 
land areas.
Amphibious Movement
to make a single amphibious movement.
With a single amphibious movement, a 
player may move as many land units and/
or air units as he likes from one friendly, 
coastal land area to any other friendly or 
unoccupied coastal land area. (A coastal 
land area is a land area that is adjacent to a 
sea area.) However, this movement must be 
made across a continuous path of sea areas 
that connect the two coastal areas, and that 
are all friendly (i.e., occupied by sea units 
controlled by that player).
Notes about amphibious movement:
amphibious movement must "pick up" 
from the same area.
amphibious movement must "drop off" 
in the same area.
Every sea area in the path between the 
starting area and the destination area 
must be friendly.
Strategic Bomber Movement
A player may spend one movement 
point to make a single strategic bomber 
movement.
With a single strategic bomber movement, 
a player may move as many bombers — 
and only bombers — from any friendly land 
area to any other friendly or unoccupied 
The red player can move as many 
units as he wishes along a chain of 
friendly (or unoccupied) land areas by 
spending a movement point.
Land Movement 
Example

land area, anywhere on the board, without 
further restriction.
Notes about strategic bomber movement:
Only bombers may be moved with a 
strategic bomber movement.
strategic bomber movement must "pick 
up" from the same area.
strategic bomber movement must "drop 
off" in the same area.
It is not necessary to take the path of 
movement into consideration when 
making a strategic bomber movement.
Bombers are not prevented from 
making land movement and amphibious 
movement. Strategic bomber movement 
is simply an additional option open to 
bombers.
The Combat Phase
Once a player’s movement phase is 
finished, he begins his combat phase. 
Similar to movement, the number of times a 
player can attack is limited by the number of 
combat points on the card he played in the 
initiative step.
To make one attack, the player designates 
any number of units in one friendly area (the 
origin area) as attacking units. He then 
designates one enemy area that is adjacent 
to that area as the target area of his attack. 
All of the units in the target area become 
defending units. 
There is one exception to the need for the 
origin area and target area to be adjacent: 
a player may make an amphibious attack 
between land areas that are separated by 
a path of one or more sea areas. However, 
to make an amphibious attack, the path 
of areas between the origin area and the 
target area must not contain any land areas. 
Furthermore, every sea area in that path 
must be controlled by a sea unit of the 
player’s color.
For all attacks – amphibious or otherwise 
– if there are units in the origin area that 
are not designated as attacking units, the 
attacking player should push the attacking 
units partway down the line that connects 
the origin area and the target area, to make 
it clear which units are which.
There are a number of additional 
restrictions on how units may attack:
Land units and air units may not attack 
sea areas. (Exception: Special bomber 
attacks; see "Special Bomber Attacks" 
on page 21.)
Sea units may not attack land areas. 
(Exception: Special submarine attacks; 
see "Special Submarine Attacks" on 
page 21.)
Once the attacking and defending units 
have been defined, the battle is resolved 
according to the rules under “Battle,” on 
page 18. After the first battle has been 
resolved as those rules specify, any 
additional combat points available to the 
player whose turn it is may be spent in the 
same way.
Additional combats are restricted, 
however, in that a player may not make the 
same attack more than once in his player 
turn. That is, he may not make multiple 
attacks from the same origin area to the 
same target area. 
A player may, however, make multiple 
attacks targeting the same area as long as 
they originate in different areas. Similarly, a 
player may make multiple attacks from the 
same area, as long as they target different 
areas.
Note, furthermore, that the same unit 
could theoretically be involved in several 
battles, by surviving its initial combats and 
then moving on other fights that originate in 
earlier battles’ target areas.
Unoccupied areas may never be the 
targets of attack.
Tip: If you designate all of the units in an 
origin area as attacking units, the origin area 
will most likely be left empty after the attack, 
even if you win. Don’t accidentally lose 
control of vital power sources or production 
centers this way! If you want to retain 
control of the origin area, make sure you 
leave at least one unit behind.

First-turn Restrictions
During the first game round, players may 
not attack power sources, capitals, or any 
areas containing production centers.
Attacking Capitals
A player may not attack any opponent’s 
capital until he has scored victory points 
equal to half the total number of victory 
points needed to win the game (see 
“Victory” on page 18). However, once any 
player attacks any capital, all other players 
may then attack any enemy capitals they 
wish, regardless of their current victory point 
scores.
Neutral Units
Since a player may only attack with units 
originating in a friendly area, neutral units 
can never launch attacks (even if they were 
purchased by a player). They can, however, 
be involved in battle as defending units. See 
“Battle” on page 18 for more information.
The Victory Point Phase
Once every player has taken his player 
turn, all players simultaneously count victory 
points and record them by moving the tank 
figures they set aside during setup along 
the victory point track. In this way, every 
player’s current victory point total is always 
visible to all players.
There are three ways victory points 
are scored: for controlling capitals, for 
controlling power sources, and for holding 
majorities. Each is described in detail below, 
but the following formula summarizes each 
player’s victory points calculation for the 
turn:
VP = 1 per capital + 1 per power source 
+ 1 per majority
In order to make record-keeping in the 
victory point phase speedy, tokens for each 
capital, power source, and majority in the 
game are provided. As capitals and power 
sources change hands during the player 
phases, the corresponding tokens should 
be passed among the players. (Majorities 
should not be passed during the player 
turns, however – see “Majorities,” below, for 
more information.) That way, once majorities 
have been tallied and allocated, each player 
can simply count the total number of tokens 
before him and score that many victory 
The blue player can launch an amphibious attack across sea spaces occupied by 
friendly sea units against a coastal target area. He may designate any number of units 
from the origin area as his attacking units.
Amphibious Attack Example

points. Once this is done, the next game 
Capitals
every capital he controls. (Note that even 
though neutral forces hold capitals in some 
games, they never score victory points.)
Power Sources
every power source area he controls.
Majorities
every majority token — production, sea, and 
land — he holds.
To determine which player holds a given 
majority in a given turn, each player counts 
the quantity of relevant figures or areas 
he controls. For the production majority, 
production centers are counted. For the 
sea and land majorities, sea areas and land 
areas are counted, respectively. The player 
with the largest number in each case takes 
the appropriate majority token.
In the event of a tie for a given majority, 
there are two possibilities. If one of the tying 
players held the majority in question during 
the previous turn’s victory point phase, that 
player keeps it. However, if some other 
player held that majority during the previous 
turn, or if no player held it (as will be the on 
the first turn of the game, for example), that 
majority will not be held by any player this 
turn.
Victory
A Premium version game of Dust is played 
to a number of victory points based on the 
number of players in the game:
Number of 
Players
Victory Points 
Needed to Win
3–4
5–6
If, at the end of a given victory point phase, 
any player exceeds this threshold, that 
player wins the game if he controls at 
least one capital. If more than one player 
exceeds the threshold and controls at least 
one capital, the player among them with the 
highest total number of victory points wins. 
If more than one such player is tied for the 
highest victory point total, the player among 
them who controls the most capitals wins 
the game. If more than one such player is 
tied for the most capitals, the player among 
them who controls the most total areas (land 
+ sea) wins the game. If such players are 
still tied, they share the victory.
If no player wins the game at the end of 
a given victory point phase, a new game 
Tip: Once it becomes clear that a player 
will exceed the game’s victory point 
threshold in the current game round’s 
victory point phase, your only chance to 
prevent him from winning is usually to take 
his capital.
Battle
When a player attacks another player as 
described under “The Combat Phase” on 
page 16, a battle begins. (The terms “battle” 
and “combat” are used interchangeably in 
these rules.) As defined in that section, a 
battle consists of some number of attacking 
units and some number of defending units. 
The attacking units have come from an 
origin area, and are attacking a target area.
Although all battles are resolved in a 
similar way, there are three distinct types 
of battles: land battles, sea battles, and 
amphibious battles.
A land battle takes place when the origin 
area and the target area are adjacent land 
areas. Similarly, a sea battle takes place 
when both areas are adjacent sea areas. An 
amphibious battle is a special case, where 
the origin area and target are both land 
areas, but they are separated by a path of 
one or more sea areas. See “The Combat 
Phase” on page 16 for more information.

Land Battles
When a land battle begins, players first 
determine which of them has tactical 
supremacy. If the target area is a capital, the 
defending player automatically has tactical 
supremacy. If the target is not a capital, 
each player adds the tactical supremacy 
values of all of his involved units, and the 
player with the higher total has tactical 
supremacy. If both sides are tied, the 
defender has tactical supremacy.
Next, the player with tactical supremacy 
collects a number of dice equal to the sum 
of his involved units’ combat values. Players 
defending capitals and/or areas where 
production centers are located also receive 
a number of bonus dice: five dice for a 
capital or three dice for a production center. 
(These bonuses are not cumulative. Only 
five bonus dice are rolled when a defending 
capital also contains a production center.)
Once a player has collected all of the 
dice to which he is entitled, he rolls them. 
Every hit symbol he rolls destroys one of his 
opponent’s involved units.
The player who rolled chooses which of 
his opponent’s units are destroyed, subject 
to the following restrictions:
A bomber may not be destroyed if a 
fighter could be chosen instead.
A mech may not be destroyed if a tank 
could be chosen instead. 
Once units have been destroyed equal 
to the number of hits rolled, it is the other 
player’s turn to roll the dice, following 
the same procedure of rolling and then 
choosing which of his opponent’s units to 
destroy. Note, however, that previously 
destroyed units do not contribute their 
combat values to the number of dice rolled.
Tip: Tactical supremacy is important! 
If you don’t have tactical supremacy, 
it’s possible that all of your units will be 
destroyed before you have a chance to 
roll any dice. Make sure you have tactical 
Then, the blue player adds up his remaining units’ combat values and rolls five dice. 
He scores two hits. He can’t choose to eliminate the red player’s mech because he 
must eliminate all enemy tanks before choosing mechs, so he instead chooses to 
destroy the red player’s fighter and bomber. (Destroying the bomber is legal once the 
fighter is gone.)
Battle Example
The red player attacks. He has fewer units, but his mech, fighter, and bomber give him 
tactical superiority over his opponents pair of fighters.
The red player sums his units’ combat values and rolls seven dice. He score two hits 
and chooses to eliminate both of the blue player’s fighters.

supremacy whenever possible when 
launching attacks, and be mindful of your 
units’ tactical supremacy totals in areas 
where you may be attacked.
Any time a player could roll dice, he 
may elect to retreat up to half of his units 
(round up) of his choice from the battle 
before rolling. The exception is that the 
defender may not retreat before his first die 
roll, whether he has tactical supremacy or 
not. See “Retreating” on page 20 for more 
information on how retreats are resolved.
If the players roll dice three times in 
succession and no hits are rolled (for 
example, if the attacker rolls no hits, and 
then the defender rolls no hits, and then the 
attacker again rolls no hits), this is called a 
cease-fire, and all of the attacking units are 
forced to retreat. See “Retreating” on page 
20 for more information.
Retreating units leave the battle entirely, 
and are placed in some area other than the 
target area. This may end the battle if one 
side retreats the last of his involved units. 
But barring a retreat or cease-fire, players 
continue alternating rolling the dice until one 
side or the other is eliminated.
If all of the attacker’s units are eliminated 
or retreat, the combat simply ends, and the 
attacking player may move on to launch 
other attacks, if he has sufficient combat 
points. (If he does not, play continues 
with either the next player’s player turn, or 
moves on to the victory point phase.) On 
the other hand, if all of the defender’s units 
are eliminated or retreat, all of the remaining 
attacking units are moved into the target 
area. If there is a production center in the 
area, the attacking player assumes control 
of it. Then, as above, play continues, with 
the attacker either launching additional 
attacks, or play proceeding to a new player 
turn, or the victory point phase. Note that, as 
described above, the victorious units from 
the just-resolved battle may legally launch 
additional attacks – assuming that their 
player has more combat points to spend – 
from the conquered area. 
Sea Battles
Sea battles are resolved in the same way 
as land battles, with one major exception: 
tactical supremacy is not calculated. 
Instead, both players simultaneously 
calculate their combat values, roll their dice 
simultaneously, and remove each other’s 
casualties simultaneously.
A cease-fire occurs only if three pairs of 
rolls result in no hits. (That is, if both the 
attacker and defender both roll the dice 
together three times, and all six of those 
rolls result in no hits.)
Amphibious Battles
Amphibious battles are resolved just like 
regular land battles, with only one exception: 
The attacker in an amphibious battle can 
never choose to voluntarily retreat, and if a 
cease-fire occurs, the attacker’s units are all 
destroyed rather than retreating.
Tip: If you launch an amphibious attack, 
send enough units to crush your enemy! 
Otherwise, you stand to lose your entire 
force in the event that a few unlucky die rolls 
result in no hits.
Retreating
Units involved in battles – both attackers 
and defenders – sometimes retreat, which 
may be either voluntary or involuntary.
Once it has been established that a given 
unit is retreating, it must be determined what 
happens to that unit. Follow the steps below, 
in order, to determine what happens to that 
unit, and stop as soon as one of the steps 
applies.
If the retreating unit is an attacking unit, it 
1.	
is placed in the origin area.
If the retreating unit is a defending unit, 
2.	
it is placed in an adjacent friendly area 
of its player’s choice. (“Adjacent” means 
“adjacent to the battle’s target area.”)
If a retreating defending unit has no 
3.	
adjacent friendly areas to which it can 
legally retreat, it may retreat to an 
adjacent unoccupied area of its player’s 
choice, save that the defender may not, 

under any circumstances, retreat to the 
attacker’s origin area.
If a retreating defending unit cannot be 
4.	
placed according to steps two or three, 
above, it is destroyed.
Obviously, land and air units may never 
retreat to sea areas, and sea units may 
never retreat to land areas.
Special Attacks
In addition to fighting battles, there are 
several other ways that players can attempt 
to destroy each other’s units. Bombers 
and submarines can both launch special 
attacks in certain circumstances, and the 
ballistic missile special ability (arising from 
the ballistic missile card) can also be used 
to destroy enemy units at long range. Each 
special attack is described below.
Note that even though each of these 
special attacks uses a combat point, it is not 
considered a battle. Thus, rules and abilities 
that are useful in battle – such as the 
nurse’s ability to retreat – are not effective 
against special attacks.
Special Bomber Attacks
One or more bombers in a single land area 
that is adjacent to a sea area where there 
are one or more enemy submarines may 
make a special attack against them. The 
player controlling the bomber(s) announces 
the attack, spends a combat point, and then 
rolls two dice for each bomber present. For 
every hit rolled, one submarine is destroyed. 
Note: The attacker does not roll his dice 
more than once, as in a battle, nor are the 
submarines allowed to roll any dice at all. 
The player controlling the bomber(s) rolls 
his dice once, any casualties are removed, 
and then the special attack is over.
Special Submarine Attacks
One or more submarines in a single 
sea area that is adjacent to a land area 
where there are one or more enemy units 
of any type(s) may make a special attack 
against them. The player controlling the 
submarine(s) announces the attack, spends 
a combat point, and then rolls one die for 
each submarine present. For every hit 
rolled, one enemy unit is destroyed. The 
player controlling the submarine(s) chooses 
which of his enemy units are destroyed 
according the same restrictions that must 
be followed when units are destroyed in 
battle. That is, fighters must be destroyed 
before bombers can be destroyed, and 
tanks must be destroyed before mechs can 
be destroyed.
Special submarine attacks may not be 
launched against capitals.
Note: As with special bomber attacks, 
the player making the special attack only 
rolls his dice once, and no counter-attack is 
made by the special attack’s target.
Special Ballistic 
Missile Attacks
A player who chooses the ballistic missile 
card during the initiative phase may make 
one special ballistic missile attack sometime 
during the combat phase of his player 
turn. To do so, he announces the attack, 
chooses a target area, spends a combat 
point, and then rolls three dice. For each hit, 
he chooses and destroys one unit in that 
area. He may choose any units he wishes. 
That is, he need not choose fighters before 
bombers, nor tanks before mechs.
Special ballistic missile attacks may not be 
launched against capitals.
First-turn Restrictions
During the first game round, players may 
not launch special attacks against power 
sources, capitals, or any areas containing 
production centers.

Special Abilities
Each card gives its player access to a 
special ability, which may be used only once 
during the game round in which it is played. 
(Although some special abilities’ effects 
persist past the moment when they are 
activated, this does not change the fact that 
they may only be used – that is, activated – 
once per turn.)
Each special ability must be activated at 
a particular point in the game round, which 
varies from ability to ability.
Each special ability is described below.
Raketen Truppen
Use during a battle 
involving at least one of 
your land units, 
immediately after you 
roll one or more dice to 
attack or defend. Reroll 
all of those dice, and 
use the new results, 
even if they are worse 
than the original results.
Nurse 
 
 Use when one of your 
units is destroyed in 
battle. Roll a die. If you 
roll a blank, that unit is 
not destroyed, and 
instead retreats 
according to the normal 
rules. (Although note that 
if following the normal 
retreat rules would result 
in the unit being 
destroyed because there is no legal area to 
which it can retreat, it is destroyed as 
normal.) If you roll a hit, it is destroyed as 
normal. For the remainder of this battle, 
each time your opponent destroys one of 
your units, roll a die in the same way. 
 
Secret Weapon
are rolled. Your 
opponent must 
immediately retreat all of 
his units from that 
battle’s target area. You 
may not activate this 
ability if it would cause 
your opponent’s units to 
be destroyed (per step 
four of the retreat procedure – see 
“Retreating” on page 20).
Diplomat
Use at the start of your 
production phase. 
Choose one other 
player, who becomes 
your “ally” for the 
duration of the game 
round. Neither you nor 
your ally may attack, or 
make special attacks 
against, the other.
Alien Radar
are rolled. Retreat all of 
your units according to 
the normal rules for 
retreats. This ability 
persists for the 
remainder of the game 
round. That is, you may 
retreat in the same way 
from any battle involving 
your units, as long as you announce that 
you will do so before any dice are rolled.

Koshka
Use as another player’s 
player turn begins. 
Interrupt that player and 
take your player turn, 
instead. That player 
takes his player turn 
after your player turn is 
finished. (You do not get 
an extra player turn in 
this game round, 
however. The order of 
turns is simply changed.) If two players use 
this ability to interrupt the same player, the 
player whose card has the most tie-breaker 
stars takes his player turn first. 
 
Mech Dropper
Use during your combat 
phase. Spend one 
combat point and 
choose a target enemy 
area. Then take any 
number of mech units 
from any friendly area or 
combination of friendly 
areas on the board and 
place them all in the 
target area. A battle then 
occurs in the target area. You may not 
retreat from this battle. 
Ace of the Sky 
are rolled. All friendly air 
units have their combat 
values increased by one 
for the duration of the 
battle. 
 
Mech Builder
Use at any time during 
your production phase. 
Place one free mech 
unit on any area where 
you have a production 
center. This unit does 
not count against that 
production center’s 
normal five-unit 
production limit. 
Sigrid
Use during a battle, 
immediately after you 
roll one or more dice to 
attack or defend. Collect 
all of the dice that rolled 
blank and reroll them. 
 
 
Ballistic Missiles
Use during your combat 
phase. Make a special 
ballistic missile attack 
(see page 21).
 

CREDITS
Game Design
Spartaco Albertarelli and Angelo Zucca
Art Direction
Paolo Parente
Art
Paolo Parente, Alessia Zambonin, 
and Davide Fabbri
Graphic Design
Ray D. Tutto and Alessia Zambonin
Editing	 	
Leo Cook
Board Art
Nicolas Fructus
Production Managers
David Preti and William Yau
Lead Playtester
Ketto Pelan
English Edition Publisher
Christian T. Petersen
Special Thanks
Mink, Christian T. Petersen, 
John Grams, Jeremy Stomberg, 
 Jose M. Rey, Gilles Garnier, 
 Takashi Kono, Kunitaka Imai, 
 Sigrid Thaler, Clement Boen, 
 Anastasiya Tymofyeyeva, 
Vincent “Nipple” Fontaine, 
Matthias Haddad, Roberto Scazzuso, 
 Edouard Guiton, Juan Navarro Perez, 
Fabio and Filippo Zanicotti, and 
Mario “We miss U a lot!” Braghieri
In memory of Riccardo Mazzoletti
Dust created by Paolo Parente.
Dust Games “da un’idea di” David, Ketto, Paolo, 
e William.
Dust is property of 
Dust Ltd., Hong Kong.