È
Y
S
H
Ü
C
Kris Burm
Contents..................................................3 
Aim of the game......................................3
Basic rules...............................................4
Standard rules.........................................8
Warning! Choking hazard. Not suitable for 
children under age of 3 due to small parts. 
Author: Kris Burm
3D: Andreas Resch 
Design: Kris Burm, 
HUCH! & friends
© 2017 Rio Grande Games
© 2017 HUCH! & friends
Distributor:
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 1033
Placitas, NM 87043, USA
www.riograndegames.com
Editor: Simon Hopp
Made in Germany 
Information about the GIPF project: 
games, potentials, digital versions 
and more.
Manufacturer: 
Hutter Trade GmbH + Co KG
Bgm.-Landmann-Platz 1-5, 
89312 Günzburg, GERMANY

È
Y
S
H
Ü
C
Do not get cut off!
The fourth game of the GIPF project. For 2 players.
A 	 C O N T E N T S
-	 	 1 	game board
-	 	23 	white pieces
- 	 23 	black pieces
- 	 	 3 	red DVONN pieces
-	 	 1 	bag
-	 	 	this rulebook
B 	 A I M O F T H E G A M E
Control as many pieces as possible by stacking 
them on top of each other and try to keep your 
stacks linked to the red DVONN pieces. When no 
more moves can be made, the player who controls 
the most pieces wins the game.
Build stacks, try to control 
your opponent’s pieces and, 
above all, remain linked to 
the red DVONN pieces. 
If you do not? Well, you may 
suddenly see quite a few of your 
pieces disappear from the board. 
Be aware of everything your 
opponent does, but do not forget 
to watch your step, too. 
If you do not? Well, you may be 
forced to make moves you really 
do not want to make and, then, 
strange things can happen…
Tip: To make the pieces easier to pick up, 
place them on the board with the “hollow” 
side upwards. 

B 	 P R E P A R A T I O N
1/ Draw lots to determine who begins. The starting 
player takes 2 DVONN pieces and the 23 white 
pieces; the other player takes the remaining 
DVONN piece and the 23 black pieces.
2/ Place the board horizontally between the players 
so that each player has 9 intersections on his side. 
Intersections are called spaces.
D 	T H E F I R S T P H A S E : 
	
P L A C I N G P I E C E S
1/ The game starts with an empty board. The players 
take turns placing their pieces on the spaces of the 
board, one at a time. 
They must start with the DVONN pieces and 
after that continue with their own color:
White: first DVONN piece
Black: second DVONN piece
White: third DVONN piece
Black: first black piece
White: first white piece
Black: second black piece
… and so on…
2/ A piece may be put on any vacant space, without 
restriction.
3/ When all the pieces are placed on the board, all 
spaces will be occupied. This is the end of the first 
phase.
E 	 T H E S E C O N D P H A S E : 
	
S T A C K I N G P I E C E S
1/ IMPORTANT: the player who started the first phase 
also starts the second phase! Thus, after White has 
put his last piece on the board, he must immediately 
play again. Then the players alternate turns. (As Black 
is the first to put a piece of his own color on the board 
in the 1st phase, so now it is White who may first 
move one of his pieces.)
2/ Each turn a player must move one piece or one stack. 
He may only move a piece or a stack of his own color. 
When two or more pieces are stacked on top of each 
other, the color of the topmost piece determines who 
owns the stack, and thus which player may move it.
3/ A single piece may move one space in any direction, 
but only to an occupied space (i.e. on top of another 
piece or stack of any color). 
4/ A stack must always be moved as a whole and moves 
as many spaces as there are pieces in the stack. Thus, 
a stack of 3 pieces (regardless of their color) must 
be moved exactly 3 spaces. Just like a single piece, a 
stack may be moved in any direction, but always in 
a straight line.
5/ A move may never end in an empty space, but it 
is allowed to move across one or more empty 
spaces. When making a move, each space must be 
counted, no matter whether it is empty or occupied 
(see diagram 1).
Diagram 1: the indicated stack may be moved 3 spaces 
in the direction of the arrows.
6/ IMPORTANT: a piece or stack that is surrounded 
on all 6 sides may not be moved. So, at the 
beginning of the game only the pieces at the edge 
of the board may move. The pieces that are not 
positioned at the edge remain blocked for as long as 
they remain completely surrounded (see diagram 2).
Diagram 2: the pieces and stacks marked with an “x” 
are surrounded on all 6 sides and may not be moved.
7/ A single DVONN piece may not be moved, but 
a piece or stack may move on top of it. When a 
DVONN pieces is part of a stack, it is perfectly legal 
to move the stack containing the DVONN piece– 
but, as explained above, only by the player who 
controls the stack.
8/ You may not pass a turn, unless you cannot make 
any more moves.
F 	 L O S I N G P I E C E S
1/ Pieces and stacks must somehow remain in contact 
with at least one DVONN piece to remain in play. 
“In contact” means that there must always be a link 
(directly or through a chain of other pieces) with at 
least one DVONN piece. Each and every piece and/
or stack that is not linked to any of the DVONN 
pieces, must be removed from the board at once. Be 
careful: it may happen that a great number of pieces 
are suddenly removed as a result of one single move 
(see diagram 3).
Diagram 3: if White moves the indicated piece, the pieces 
on the left will no longer be in contact with a DVONN piece. 
They must be removed from the board.
2/ All removed pieces go out of the game. It does not 
matter who makes the move through which the 
pieces and/or stacks become isolated. Watch out for 
this, especially in the endgame. Since you may not 
pass, you may be forced to make a move that isolates 
one or more of your own stacks (see diagram 4).
Diagram 4: the endgame. It is White’s turn. White has 
only one stack left to play with. Since he must make a move 
he has no other choice than to play it, as a result of which 
the stacks marked with an “x” are out of the game… 
3/ All 3 DVONN pieces remain in play until the end 
of the game, even if one of them becomes isolated, as 
it will always remain in contact with itself.
G 	 E N D O F T H E G A M E
1/ The players must play for as long as they can do 
so. If one player can’t make a move any more, the 
other must continue to play until he, too, has made 
his very last possible move. In the rare event that 
a player who must pass gets the opportunity 
to make a move again, he must do so. This can 
happen when one or more of his pieces are blocked 
(i.e. completely surrounded).
2/ The game ends when the last move is made. At this 
point, each player puts all of the stacks he controls 
on top of each other. The player with the highest 
stack wins the game, regardless of the color of the 
pieces in his stack.
3/ If both players end up with an equal stack, then 
the game ends in a tie. Note: if the stacks are 
equally high or if the difference is only one piece, 
then do count the pieces to be sure. As a result 
of the manufacturing process of the pieces, their 
thickness may differ slightly.

H 	S T R A T E G I C T I P P S
1/ Phase 1: when placing the pieces on the board, 
make sure that you put enough of them at the edge 
and close to the DVONN pieces. Do not put too 
many of your pieces close together.
2/ Phase 2: when making a move, you neutralize an 
opponent’s piece each time you play on top of one. 
A neutralized piece is like a piece that is captured 
(it remains in play, indeed, nonetheless it is one 
piece less for your opponent to play with).
3/ Try to keep as many of your pieces mobile. Keep in 
mind that the higher a stack gets, the more difficult 
it becomes to move.
4/ Be careful when your opponent is in control of a 
DVONN piece. Check where he can go to with 
the DVONN piece and how many of your pieces 
will have to be removed if he moves it. If it is too 
dangerous, then try to immobilize the stack by 
making it higher.
5/ The last moves are very important. Often the player 
with the most mobile pieces at the ending stage of 
the game will eventually win. In other words: try to 
make your opponent pass his turn before you must 
do so yourself.
Have fun!