NEW! 2020 Edition
The Official Rulebook
And How—To—Play Guide
“Cieslinski developed the board game Pursue the Pennant,
which was an amazingly lifelike representation of baseball.
DYNASTY League Baseball, which is available as both a board
game and a computer game, is even better.”
Michael Bauman — Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
EDITED BY Michael Cieslinski

2020 Edition v3
Edited by
Michael Cieslinski
DYNASTY League Baseball
A Design Depot Book / October 2020
All rights reserved
Copyright © 2020 by Design Depot Inc.
This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part by any means without express written
consent from Design Depot Inc.
First Edition: March, 1997
Printed in the United States of America
ISBN 0-9670323-2-6

Laying Out The Ground Rules/Ratings ..3-5
Situation Key.............................................6-7
Playing Charts...........................................7-8
Player Rest & Use.....................................9-10
DYNASTY Official League Rules.................10
Draft........................................................10-11
Player Contracts....................................11-12
Setting Up A Schedule...............................13
Post Season.................................................13
Acknowledgements/Game Design.........16
D
Poor, mediocre at best.
F
Bad, rock bottom.
Error ratings: Range from 5 to 100 in increments of 5,
with100 the highest possible fielding percentage.
Throwing ratings for outfielders and catchers: Range
from -4 (performance ranking with best of all-time) to
+4 (rock bottom).
Double Play Pivot ratings for 2b and ss: Are either -5
(tops in the league for the season), +5 (rock bottom)
or blank (middle-of-the-pack).
Position ratings R/E/T/D/P/H: These ratings are
Range/Error/Throwing Arm/Double Play Pivot/Passed
Ball/Catcher Handling of Pitchers. There are three
INSIDE
Spring Training: Learning The Fundamentals
DYNASTY League Baseball includes two types of
player cards: hitters and pitchers. Take a look at the
1982 Paul Molitor and Dennis Martinez player cards.
If #168 was rolled, (dice are read in the order red,
white and blue), check Molitor's card (#0-499 are
always found on the hitter's card) and look down the
"vs. Right" column (he's vs. the right-handed Marichal).
You'll find the result is a ground single into right field.
Baserunner advancement is always indicated inside
parenthesis. On Molitor's "1B", a runner on 2nd would
come home. A runner on 1st would have the option
to go from 1st to 3rd by going to the BASERUNNER
ADVANCEMENT chart or he could hold at 2nd.
The Lineup: Laying Out The Ground Rules
DYNASTY League Baseball is played according to
official baseball rules. In your Manager's office
before the game, you will be using a DYNASTY
League Baseball scoresheet to write in your lineup
and keep track of the game as it progresses.
Ratings
If you look at the middle column of any hitter card, a
player's eligible positions are listed under the
abbreviation "Pos:". Most of the ratings in DYNASTY
League Baseball are based on a grading system
from A-F, or a numerical system from 1-10.
Designer's Note:
A+
Truly great performance ranking with best of all-time.
Excellent, tops in the league for the season.
B+
A notch below the best in the league.
B
Very Good, clearly above average.
C+
Slightly above average.
C
Average, middle-of-the-pack.
"As far as I can tell, there's only one tried and true way
to build yourself a modern dynasty in sports. You find
yourself one guy who knows the sport inside out, and
top to bottom, and you put him in charge. You let him
run the show totally." - Whitey Herzog.
That person is now you. Whether you're a veteran or
rookie player of baseball simulation games, DYNASTY
League Baseball™ will challenge your skills as
Manager and General Manager like never before.
The first section of the rulebook explains how to play
including game design insights. You can then get
together with a friend or have your own one game
playoff with the pennant on the line the last day of
the season, dramatic series, or red-hot pennant
races from the current or past season. If you're
interested in league play, you can move on to the
DYNASTY League Baseball Official League Rules and
begin your move into the hot seat as GM of your own
team by starting or joining a league.
Official Rulebook
Building Your Own Baseball Dynasty
DYNASTY League Baseball © 2020

Paul Molitor Milwaukee 1982
Dennis Martinez Baltimore 1982

Weather
Before the game, you can find out the weather
conditions by having the home team Manager roll
the dice. In this case, as with many of the outside
charts you will be using, roll the white and blue dice
to generate a number from 0-99 (remember the
white die is the tens die and the blue die the ones
die). Use this number to determine the temperature,
sky and precipitation by checking the Weather chart
for the region where the game is being played.
Notice that results are broken down by day and
night for each month during the season. You'll have
to check your schedule for the month you are
playing in. You can use the following rules for
determining day and night games if you don't have
that information on your schedule:
Four game series: First 3 games at night — last during
the day.
Three game series: First 2 games at night — last
during the day.
Two game series: Both games at night.
Single game: Night game.
Rescheduled doubleheaders: During the afternoon if
doubleheader will be the final games of the series.
All other doubleheaders: Twi-night.
Temperature, Sky and Precipitation: After you've
determined the month and whether the game is a
day or night game, look down the column for the
region you are playing in to find the number you
rolled and the corresponding Temperature/Sky/
Precipitation results. If you are playing a day game
in Wrigley Field in July and you rolled #44, look under
the GREAT LAKES REGION to find that conditions are
in the 80's with partly cloudy skies.
Check the Weather effects section at the top of the
WEATHER chart to see if there are any additional
adjustments or conditions ("Temperature", "Rain?" or
"Snow?").
Wind Direction/Speed: Roll two dice and look in the
wind section of the ball park you are playing in.
Checking the wind in Wrigley Field, if the # rolled is 98,
the wind is blowing from right to left at 20-29 mph.
Note weather conditions and adjustments on your
scoresheet.
Meeting At Home Plate
Umpire Crews are rotated from series to series.
Assign a different crew to each home team for the
first home series at the start of the season and rotate
the crew by moving to the next numbered crew (N
#8 crews move to #1). Make sure to include only
umpires from the league you are in when making the
assignments. Check the UMPIRE CREW chart by
having the home team roll two dice to determine the
home plate umpire before each new series. The
umpire listed below the home plate umpire is the 1b
umpire, next is the 2b umpire and then the 3b
umpire. For each new game within each series,
rotate the umpires clockwise. The 1b umpire
becomes the new home plate umpire. Write in the
home plate umpire on your scoresheet.
types of configurations for the fielding ratings. One
each for catchers, infielders and outfielders.
Catchers: Are configured like this:
Range/Error/Throwing/Passed Ball/Catcher Handling Pitchers
A+/55/-4/A/A (Johnny Bench 1975 Cincinnati)
Infielders: Are configured like this:
Range/Error/Double Play Pivot
A/60/-5
(Robin Yount 1982 Milwaukee)
Outfielders: Are configured like this:
Range/Error/Throwing
A+/75/-4 (Dwight Evans 1975 Boston)
lf can play rf and vice versa. A player listed in cf
can play all of the of positions.
Bats: Colored in green in the upper left-hand corner
of each Hitter card is the side the player bats from
and where he is likely to hit the ball (spray or pull).
Throws: Pitchers' cards include the way the pitcher
throws located in the upper left-hand corner colored in
green.
Endurance: If a pitcher has a numerical Endurance
rating he is eligible to start a game. Pitchers with
"Long" or "Short" Endurance ratings are eligible to
pitch in relief.
Long relievers Endurance rating: 15
Short relievers Endurance rating: 7
Designer's Note: After you've finished writing in your
lineup, it’s a strategic help to also write in each
teams bench and bullpen.
Rolling And Reading The Dice
If you take a look at the dice included with your
game, you'll notice that they are ten-sided percen-
tile dice. The Defensive Manager rolls all three dice
to generate a number from 0-999. Read the dice in
the order red, white and blue with the red die
representing the hundreds place, the white die
representing the tens place and the blue die
representing the ones place. If you roll a white 2, a
red 4 and a blue 3 the number is read as 423.
Designer's Note: You might be asking why the
Defensive Manager rolls the dice instead of the
Offensive Manager. One reason is that pitchers have
the predominant influence on the pace of the game
— some working fast, others working more slowly
and deliberately. The main reason though, is that just
like in real baseball the defense must commit first
with moves like bringing the infield in, giving the
offense the final strategic choice. As a general rule
the Offensive Manager should roll only for plays the
offense initiates such as Bunting, Stealing, Baserunner
advancement when taking the extra base or Deep
Drive results. For plays on the INJURY chart roll for
your own players and hope you won't do too much
damage!

Play Ball
Hitters cards: Roll all three dice. If the number is 0-
499, you'll find the result on the hitter's card. You'll
need to look down the "vs. left" column if the batter is
facing a left-handed pitcher or down the "vs. right"
column if the batter is facing a right-handed pitcher.
Pitchers cards: The result will always be found on the
pitcher's card when the number is 500-999. You'll
need to look down the "vs. left" column if the pitcher
is facing a left-handed batter or down the "vs. right"
column if the pitcher is facing a right-handed batter.
"vs. left" or "vs. right": Once you've located whether
the result is on the hitter's or pitcher's card and
whether to read down the "vs. left" or "vs. right"
column you'll be able to read the result of the play
right from the player card.
Sometimes more than one result may appear and
you may need to check the situation to determine
which result to use. Most results are normal situations
easily identified by their blue color.
Off to either side of the result, you may have a
position listed that corresponds to the fielder the ball
was hit to. For results vs. right-handers, use the
position listed on the right side. For results vs. left-
handers, use the position listed on the left side.
Base hits: Are indicated by 1B, 2B, 3B or HOME RUN.
Question marks: If a "?" follows a result, it indicates that
you will need to go to a chart to determine the play result.
Baserunner Advancement (?)
Baserunner advancement is listed after the play
result and is found inside the parenthesis to the right
of the result. Parentheses always indicate baserun-
ner advancement. Question marks inside a paren-
thesis indicate an option to take the extra base.
For example, if the baserunner advancement was
(2-H,1-3?), a runner on 2nd would come home to
score and a runner on 1st would advance to 2nd
and have the option to try for 3rd by going to the
BASERUNNER ADVANCEMENT chart. To use this chart,
make all applicable adjustments listed at the top of
the BASERUNNER ADVANCEMENT chart to the players
Baserunning rating and roll two dice.
Cut-off play option: If the defense decides not to
throw, they can use the cut-off play option found on
the BASERUNNER ADVANCEMENT chart.
No parenthesis after hit: Assume a 1 base advance
for 1B and 2 base advance for 2B for all runners. On
occasion you may see (1) or (2), which indicates a 1
or 2 base advance.
1B (?): Gives Offensive Manager choice of sending
lead runner two bases, instead of automatic one
base advance, by going to BASERUNNER ADVANCE-
MENT chart. With runners on 1st and 2nd, Offensive
Manager may send both runners. Defensive Man-
ager would then decide which runner to try to throw
out by going to BASERUNNER ADVANCEMENT chart.
Ground Out (?), Hard Ground Out (?), or Soft Ground Out (?):
indicates you should refer to the GROUND BALL
BASERUNNER ADVANCEMENT chart. This chart is
divided into sections depending on the base
situation and also into situations such as "hit and run"
and "infielder playing in". Pitcher and Catcher can’t
be moved in or back so they are always considered
back.
Situation Key
On each player card there is a coded situation key
between green "vs. Left" and "vs. Right" columns.
Situation key is your guide if more than one result
appears on a line.
If more than one situation besides "Norm" applies, the
situation furthest left in the key has priority.
NOTE on H&R: When a H&R play is on, that situation
result has priority over all other situations. In the case
of a strikeout on a H&R play, the runner must always
attempt to steal and incur the -3 steal adjustment on
all strikeout results in the game.
There are nine possible situations that may occur:
Norm: Blue
Occurs during a normal situation, which is any
situation besides the other eight situations.
NEW! Clutch: Red
Occurs whenever tying or go-ahead run is on base or
at bat from 8th inning on, or at anytime when there
are runners in scoring position with two outs.
Clutch results are for hitters who perform especially
well in clutch situations and are only used if hitter has
"clutch" listed after his Situation rating. Situation
ratings are listed near the top of the left column of
the hitter's and pitcher's cards. If hitter has "clutch"
listed after his Situation rating, you need to check the
pitcher's Situation rating. If pitcher on mound has a
“jam” Situation rating listed, it cancels out the hitter's
clutch rating and you would use the "Norm" result.
NEW! Jam: Orange
Occurs whenever tying or go ahead run is on base or
at bat from 8th inning on, or at anytime when there
are runners in scoring position with two outs.
Jam results are designed to be used for pitchers who
are able to pitch themselves out of a jam. If the
pitcher has "jam" listed after his Situation rating, use
the orange "jam" results. You will need to check the
hitter's Situation rating to see if he has a clutch
Situation rating listed. If the hitter has a "clutch"
rating, it cancels out pitcher's “jam” rating and you
would use the "Norm" result. Pitchers who become
tired lose their “jam” rating for remainder of game.
NEW! Super Tough JAM + rating
JAM+ pitchers have additional situation ability in that
they use the RR grey situation STRIKEOUTS results
instead of blue normal situation 1B and 2B results on
those two result lines in jam situations.

Tired: Yellow
A pitcher becomes tired anytime after the number of
batters faced indicated by the pitcher's Endurance
rating has been reached and then two subsequent
batters reach base safely by a hit, walk, hit by pitch
or error. Endurance ratings reflect the number of
pitches thrown, converted into batters faced, before
a pitcher starts to tire. For example, if a pitcher has
an Endurance rating of 35 and has just faced his 35th
batter and then gives up a walk and a single, he is
now considered "tired" for the rest of the game. IBB
do not count as a batter faced or as one of the two
subsequent batters to reach base safely.
HIGH STRESS INNING: Starting with the 7th BFP in any
inning, reduce pitchers Endurance rating by (-5).
Tired — Doesn't Have Good Stuff Today: Yellow
Occurs once a pitcher has allowed five earned runs.
At that point the pitcher is considered not to have his
good stuff and must use the "tired" situation results.
NEW! OVERWORKED status
All MLB teams have season IP cap ranges that they
use for two reasons:
1) injury prevention
2) decreased performance
Stephen Strasburg’s shutdown in 2012 is the most
memorable example. The other reason for the new
“Overworked” status is to more realistically replicate
volume vs. rate performance. If two pitchers have
the same ERA and one pitcher pitches 225 IP and the
other pitches 150 IP the pitcher pitching 225 IP is
more valuable.
Pitchers will be able to pitch up to x1.5 their actual
MLB IP.
If a pitcher starts a game over the IP limit, they will be
designated
as “Overworked” that will be indicated by purple
color on the roster.
Overworked pitchers will be degraded by having
them always be “tired” and use the tired situation
results, which removes all situation modifiers (on, off,
jam) and includes
the UMPIRE chart result extra chances of injury from
the injury chart. In addition, “Overworked” pitchers
will have their Durability rating reduced by two
grades (i.e. a pitcher with “B” Durability will be
downgraded to “D” Durability).
NEW! Bringing reliever into the game not
warmed up injury risk
If you bring a reliever into a game who is not warmed
up,”tired” situation status will include UMPIRE result
injury check up until the pitcher is warmed up
properly.
In: Dark Green
Occurs whenever the “infield is in” or the “corners
are in” regardless of what position is listed for the
Hard Ground Out result on line 14 of the hitters card.
To bring either the infield in or corners in (1st and
3rd), the Defensive Manager announces his inten-
tions before he rolls the dice.
H&R: Magenta
To put the hit and run play on, the Offensive Man-
ager can do so as the Defensive Manager rolls the
dice. The hit and run play can be put on whenever
a runner is on 1st, but only one time per AB.
H&R with 2 out: You can’t put H&R play on with two
out.
Some hitters have special hit and run ratings that
follow the Bunting rating after the /. Check the
Bunting/H&R section of the hitter's card.
"A" H&R rating: Indicates a high success on hit and
run plays of being able to protect and advance the
runner. Strikeout results on either the pitcher or hitter
card have a "A-foul" result for "A" rated players to
foul off the pitch in which case you will need to
consult the Foul Territory chart.
"1B" H&R rating: Indicates a high number of hits on hit
and run plays. There is a special category on the
INFIELD RANGE POSITION chart for this rating.
ON: Purple
"Runners on-base" occurs whenever a runner or
runners are on-base. "ON" results are designed to
reflect pitchers who give up a low percentage of
their homeruns allowed with runners on-base and are
only used if the pitcher has "ON" listed as a Situation
rating. Pitchers who become tired lose their "ON"
rating for the remainder of the game.
Designer's Note: Jim Palmer (never allowed a grand
slam) and Catfish Hunter are classic examples of how
this situation impacts pitcher performance.
OFF: Light Green
Leadoff situations occur whenever the first batter in
each inning bats. Off results are designed to reflect
pitchers who give up a very low percentage of their
walks leading off the inning and are only used if the
pitcher has “off” listed as a situation rating. Pitchers
who become tired lose their "off" rating for the
remainder of the game.
Designer's Note: Dennis Eckersley and Curt Schilling
are the types of pitchers this situation impacts.
RR: Grey (See Optional Player Rest/Rust Rules p. 9)
Infield Range?/Outfield Range?
Whenever you roll an Infield Range or Outfield Range
result, go to the RANGE chart to find the result of the
play. Check which direction the hitter tends to hit
the ball by looking at the Bats: section of his card.
Roll two dice on the RANGE POSITION section of the
chart to find out where the ball has been hit. Use the

fielder's Range rating to determine result by rolling
two dice and checking RANGE RESULTS section of
RANGE chart for type of surface (grass or turf). Some
results refer you to the RANGE RESULT KEY below.
Ex: Robin Yount (Right-spray) vs. Tommy John and
Outfield Range result comes up. Check OUTFIELD
RANGE POSITION section of RANGE chart and roll two
dice. If number rolled is 47, ball is "shot into the gap
cf". California's cf Fred Lynn has very good range
(B+). To find out if Lynn makes play, roll two dice on
OUTFIELD RANGE RESULTS chart in shot into the gap
section. If roll is 59, Lynn makes Diving Catch!
Error?
Error results are resolved by rolling one die on ERROR
POSITION section of ERROR chart to determine player
who has chance of making error and then rolling two
dice on ERROR chart using fielder's Error rating.
Deep Drive?
When "Deep Drive?" result occurs, use "Bats:" section
to determine side he bats from and where he tends
to hit ball (pull or spray) and roll two dice on DEEP
DRIVE LOCATION chart found in BALL PARK charts to
determine which part of park ball was hit to. Next,
find hitter's Power rating vs. type of pitcher you're
facing in "vs. left" or "vs. right". Roll two dice to
determine number of feet ball was hit from DISTANCE
HIT chart. Go to BALL PARK chart you're playing in
and make any adjustments to number of feet hit
(Wind, Temperature and How well the ball carries)
before checking BALL PARK chart to find result in one
of seven OF locations.
Ex: Johnny Bench vs. Luis Tiant in Fenway Park on
clear night in October, with temperature in 60's and
wind blowing out 10-19 MPH. Deep Drive result
comes off Tiant's card. To resolve play, roll two dice
on DEEP DRIVE LOCATION chart. If roll is 20, Bench
(Right-pull hitter) hits DEEP DRIVE to left field. Bench
has "A" Power vs. Tiant (found in "vs. RH" green section
of Bench's card) and if roll is 68 ball is hit 395 feet to
left. Make DISTANCE HIT adjustments for How well the
ball carries in Fenway Park (0), temperature 60's (0)
and wind out 10-19 MPH (+10) for a total of 405 feet
and then check Fenway BALL PARK chart: HOME RUN
over the Green Monster into screen.
Designer's Note: Suspense increased by determining
how many feet ball needs to travel for HR before you
roll dice.
NEW! Batter HOME RUN result indexed by
Pitcher HR per 9 IP for Pitchers with ZERO Deep
Drive? result # vs. that Left/Right side
Batter card HOME RUN result on line #9 AND Pitcher
with ZERO Deep Drive? # vs. that Left/Right side:
Roll one die... if number >= (HR per 9 IP) x 10 = Deep
Drive?.
EXAMPLES: If pitcher has 0.1 HR per 9 IP, dice roll of
#1-9 is Deep Drive? result (#0 HOME RUN result).
If pitcher has 0.4 HR per 9 IP, dice roll of # 4-9 is Deep
Drive? result (#0-3 HOME RUN result).
Umpire?
"Umpire?" results include umpire strike zones, effect of
temperature on hitting, catcher's handling of
pitcher's, ball park hitting backgrounds and possibility
of WP or PB. Roll two dice using UMPIRE chart and
check appropriate rating to resolve play. Ball Park
Hitting Background rating found in BALL PARK charts.
Tired Situaton result injury check: If you roll 514-540
and pitcher is tired, use yellow situation walk result
and check for injury to pitcher.
NEW! NOTE: Pitcher with No Stuff Tired Situation result
injury check for rolls of #514-540 goes into effect
when pitcher reaches 0 Endurance.
Foul?
“Foul?” results are foul balls with chance of being
caught. Check Foul Territory rating in BALL PARK
charts and roll two dice on FOUL TERRITORY chart.
NOTE: Foul results without "?", indicate ball in stands.
Bizarre?
Usually every baseball game has a play that is
unusual or bizarre. To find result of "Bizarre?" play, roll
three dice and look up result on BIZARRE chart.
Intangible player ratings are sometimes referred to as
are Team Chemistry ratings. To determine Team
Chemistry, add up individual Intangible points using
players Intangible ratings for players on 25 man roster
and make adjustments for roster changes.
INTANGIBLE RATING/POINTS
TEAM CHEMISTRY RATING
+30
≥45
Excellent
B
+15
(-44) — 44
Fair
C
≤(-45)
Bad
D
-15
F
-30
OTHER INTANGIBLE RATINGS
~ hot temper BL catcher excellent at blocking plate
Stealing
If Offensive Manager decides to steal, he announces
intent before pitcher rolls. Go to ATTEMPT chart and
roll two dice using pitcher's letter "Hold" rating and
runner's "Lead" rating (use appropriate 2nd, 3rd or
home rating) to determine if runner gets "Good jump
— attempts" result or "Poor lead — holds result".
Pitcher's Pickoff/Hold ratings: Are configured like this:
Pickoff/Hold: 1 / D (+2) (Juan Marichal 1969 SF)
Marichal's “D” letter grade indicates ability to keep
runner close and prevent attempt to steal. The (+2)
numerical hold grade reflects SB% vs. Marichal used
to adjust baserunners "Steal" rating. Marichal's
pickoff rating is 1 (10 is best).
If runner gets "Good jump", go to STEAL chart and roll
two dice using runner's Steal rating (use appropriate
2nd, 3rd or home rating). Adjustments must be made
for catcher's throwing arm and pitcher's numerical
Hold rating. Make adjustments for Turf and Strikeout
on Hit & Run found at top of STEAL chart if they apply.

Holding runners: Runners on 1st are always consid-
ered to be held unless the Defensive Manager
indicates otherwise. If a runner is not held, he gets a
"Good jump — attempts" result.
Pitchers Lead rating: Lead rating for pitchers is always 1.
Pitcher Batting
On the Bats/Card section of each Pitcher card is the
side the pitcher bats from and if he is a pull or spray
hitter along with the pitcher batting card # and
Power rating.
NEW! Pitchers must have at least 45 AB to be used as
a pinch hitter. When facing a pitcher batting, who
has less than 45 ABs, pitcher on mound uses the JAM
situation in all situations even if the pitcher on the
mound does not have a JAM situation rating.
Bunting
If the Offensive Manger decides to bunt, he does so
as the pitcher rolls the dice. This prevents the
Defensive Manager from changing the depth of the
infield (in or back). Roll two dice on the BUNT chart
and refer to the result key. You can Bunt for a Hit by
calling out your intentions only when the bases are
empty. Use the special "Bunt for a Hit results".
Injury
If you are required to check for injury, go to the
INJURY chart and roll two dice using the player's
Durability rating to determine the duration of the injury.
Designer's Note: DYNASTY League Baseball is designed to
reflect both frequency and length of injuries. It's sometimes
thought that if you're not playing a 162 game schedule,
length of injuries should be reduced based on the % of the
season you're playing. Keep in mind injuries are part of
baseball. If a line drive off your ace pitcher breaks his leg,
he's not going to heal any faster because your season is
shorter. Also remember if the length of injury is reduced, a
short season makes the chance of being injured less likely.
In order to balance out the adjustment of decreasing the
length of injury, the frequency of injury must be increased.
That can't be done without changing the playing charts.
The bottom line is the most realistic way to play is to not
reduce injury length.
Required Pitcher Rest
Starter
Short relief
Long relief
IP
Days Rest
IP
Days Rest
IP Days Rest
0-2
0-1
0*
0-2
0**
2.1-3.2 3
1.1-2
0**
2.1-3
4-9
 3***
2.1-3
3.1-4
> 9
3.1-4
4.1-7
> 7
*Maximum appearances in 4 consecutive days: 3
Note: Short and Long relief pitcher’s Endurance
rating is reduced to 4 if pitching in 2nd consecutive
day and reduced to 1 on 3rd consecutive day of
work.
** Maximum appearances in 3 consecutive days: 2
*** Starting Pitchers Endurance ratings are reduced
by 7 if pitching on 3 days rest.
Short relief maximum number of IP: 4 IP
If all other pitchers have been used and you are
forced to use a pitcher beyond the maximum
number of IP, the rest requirement is 4 days.
Bullpen Warm-Up Rule
Prior to entering the game, relief pitchers must be
properly warmed up. Pitchers may only warm-up
twice during a game. If a pitcher is not used during
his second warm-up, he must use the tired situation
results if he enters the game. Relief pitchers may not
enter the game unless they have warmed up for two
batters or the pitcher on the mound is ejected or
injured. The break between half innings counts as
one batter. Two pitchers may warm up at the same
time. When a pitcher starts warming up the half
inning prior to or during the time when his team takes
the field defensively, the duration of his warm-up lasts
until the side is retired.
RR: Grey or Strikethru Optional Player Rest/Rust Rules
Rest/Rust results reflect deterioration of hitting skills
from being tired or rusty. Also used for JAM+ pitchers.
Offensive Rest
1) After 6 innings of catching, with temperatures in the 90's.
2) Catchers who catch more than 12 innings in 1 day.
3) Day game following night game: Catchers
playing in a day game if they played more than 5
innings the previous night.
4) Players who've played in the field for 5 consecu-
tive games without a day off, with temperatures in
the 80's or 90's.
Offensive Rust
When a player does not make an official plate
appearance for 10 consecutive days he gets rusty at
bat. Player loses rust after first game back. This
includes players coming back from an injury, but not
players called up from the minors.
Defensive Rest: Catcher
1) After 6 defensive innings of catching a game in the 90's.
2) Catchers catching 7 consecutive games must use
the rest adjustments starting with the 8th consecu-
tive game played and continue with these playing
reductions until they are rested defensively for a full game.
3) Catchers catching more than 12 innings per day.
Use the catcher defensive rest adjustments below:
•Catcher's Passed Ball rating is reduced by 2 grades.
•Catcher's Error rating reduced by 30.
•Catcher's Throwing rating increased by 2.
•Catcher's must use the RR situation results.
Defensive Rust
Occurs when a player doesn't play in the field for 15
consecutive games. This includes players coming
back from an injury, but not players called up from
the minors. Player gets rusty and must reduce E
rating by 30 for first game back in the field.

Use: (Minor League callup %)
Equals the percentage of games available during a
162 game season. Players coming up from the
minors during the season are usually assigned a "Use"
%. If a player has a % listed for his "Use" rating, this
indicates the percentage of the season that he can
be called up for. This is a continuous percentage,
meaning that if you are playing a 44 game season
and the player has a "Use" rating of 20%, he can be
called up and on the roster for 9 consecutive games.
You can enter the callup on the INJURY/USE REPORT.
Playoffs are treated as a separate season based on
the maximum possible length of each series.
Use: (Utility AB vs. LH, AB vs. RH)
Indicates player wasn't a full-time player and was
used in a utility or platoon role. A player with a utility
"Use" rating can only be used for the number of AB
listed. For example, a player with utility (vs. LH 55, vs.
RH 114) can be used for 55 AB vs. LH pitchers and 114
AB vs. RH pitchers. In order for a hitter with a utility
“Use” rating to pinch hit or start a game, he must
have at least 20 AB vs. the type of pitcher (LH or RH)
that he is pinch hitting or starting against.
Designer's Note: Earl Weaver's 1980 Baltimore club
featured a platoon in left field including John
Lowenstein, Gary Roenicke and Benny Ayala. LH
batting Lowenstein hit .500 in 8 AB vs. LH pitchers. In
DYNASTY, Lowenstein's only possible AB vs. LH pitching
would come from starting a game vs. a RH and
staying in the game if a LH pitcher was brought in to
pitch. Lowenstein' would be limited to 8 AB vs. LH
because of his Use Utility rating of (8 AB vs. LH, 188 vs. RH).
If you're playing less than a 162 game season, you
should multiply the AB listed times the percentage of
a 162 game season you're playing. You can keep
track of utility players AB on the INJURY/USE REPORT.
Use: Spot starter
Indicates pitcher was not a full-time starter. Pitchers
that have a spot "Use" rating have a Games Started
restriction indicating the number of games he can
start. Keep in mind if you're playing less than a 162
game season, you should multiply the number of GS,
times the percentage of a 162 game season you're
playing. You will need to keep track of spot pitchers
GS on the INJURY/USE REPORT.
DYNASTY LEAGUE BASEBALL OFFICIAL
LEAGUE RULES
THE IMPORTANCE OF STANDARDIZED LEAGUE RULES
The DYNASTY League Baseball Official League Rules,
represent a long awaited and necessary movement
to organize baseball simulation leagues. These rules
combine the best of both worlds between Fantasy
leagues and baseball simulation games. Existing
leagues are encouraged to change and will be able
to enjoy the benefits of standardized rules. These
benefits include the ability to much more easily
recruit new players to join your league since they
know the rules and will be more confident that the
league will be well run. Standardized rules will also
help eliminate disputes.
The DYNASTY League Baseball rules have been
play tested over the past thirty five years and work
very well in insuring league parity, fairness and
allowing expansion teams and teams taken over by
new owners to have a good chance of winning.
FRANCHISE APPLICATION
You can choose between playing in a local league
with the DYNASTY League Baseball Board version or
with DYNASTY League Baseball Online which allows
you to play with people around the world and or
with a group of your friends. DYNASTY League
Baseball Online works extremely well if your friends
are not local and allows you to meet new friends in
public leagues or to create or join a private league.
Each franchise consists of the team name, ball park,
and accompanying weather conditions. You will be
in the dual role of both GM and Manager.
Franchises are awarded on a first come first serve
basis in the order of entry when joining the league.
FINDING PLAYERS FOR YOUR LEAGUE
If you wish to be a Commissioner of a private league
and are looking for players for your league, the best
place to start is to check with your friends. You can
then invite your friends to a DYNASTY League
Baseball Online private league.
The DYNASTY League Baseball Online Private League
Directory allows Commissioners to place your league
on the “Leagues Looking for Players” tab and
updates league listings in real time.
Where else should you look for players? You might
know of players who play other baseball simulations
or are in a fantasy league. Tell them you are starting
a league and have them come over to play a game
with the DYNASTY League Baseball board version or
invite them to a “Series” with a friend playing
DYNASTY League Baseball Online. Try friends at
school, work, church, teammates on your softball
league or anywhere else you come into contact with
people interested in baseball. Inviting your
Facebook friends is a great way to get new players
as is joining the DYNASTY League Baseball Facebook
group.
Designer's Note: I'll be continuing to personally
conduct Tour/Tournaments to Ball Parks around the
country. This has proven to be a great way to meet
new players for leagues.
The most common reason people give for not joining
a league is they don't have the time. Tell them right
away that if they can’t play a series live that week
the computer manager profile can play the series for
them. DYNASTY League Baseball Online manages
your league, tracks all stats, standings, leaders,
injuries and rest for you so you just have to focus on
being the GM and Manager of your franchise.

JOINING A LEAGUE
DYNASTY League Baseball Online is a revelation for
leagues in that it is so easy to join one. Just click the
join button after clicking on the league link and
select your team from one of the public leagues.
Private draft leagues are also available if you have
your own group of friends.
WHERE AND WHEN TO PLAY YOUR GAMES — LEAGUE
MEETINGS
It is essential to pick a day of the week and time that
you will regularly play your series. Ex: Sunday night at
7:00 PM. The reason this is important is that it will be
the glue that keeps your league continuity together.
DYNASTY League Baseball Online has a regular day
and time to play your series. You can always
reschedule if you miss your regular time so don’t feel
that you have to play every week at that time and
that you can’t reschedule. The scheduler feature in
DYNASTY League Baseball Online allows you to easily
reschedule if you can’t make it that week.
The Commissioner's home is a good place to play for
local Board version leagues. You'll discover getting
everyone together makes it more fun by enabling
you to follow how the rest of your league is doing.
Having your league play at a sports bar, batting
cage or other public place is a good way to attract
interested people to your league.
NAMES OF FRANCHISES
Keep your franchise names realistic by using actual
team name of franchise you selected. It will make it
much easier to remember which ball park each
owner plays in as well as weather conditions, etc.
PLAYER TALENT POOL SIZE
Talent pool is the group of baseball players eligible in
your league based on spring training 40 man roster
list of the current season including invitees.
Players available in the draft: Consist of the players
who are on the current 40 — man official roster,
including Spring Training invitees for current season
using most recent player card season set. These
teams comprise the player pool. Keeping the talent
in the player pool at a realistic level is very important.
Player pool size limit and ratios: It's important to limit
the player pool size for several important reasons.
Anyone can draft a team of All-Stars, but not
everyone can determine who are the better bench
players, upcoming rookies and where to place your
emphasis when drafting scarce talent. You'll find
your results and statistics will be much more realistic if
you can avoid the platooning of All-Stars and throw
in a few Luis Salazars. If your league expands, you'll
be able to add a new team into the player pool for
each expansion team, giving expansion teams a fair
chance to compete rather than having all the talent
locked away. Trying to build a winning team is
much more challenging and realistic using these
ratios.
Teams added to player pool:
3,4,5 and 6 franchises, add two additional team
8 franchises, add three additional teams
 10 and 12 franchises, add three additional teams
16 franchises, add five additional teams
20, 24 franchises, add six additional teams
LIVE DRAFT
The draft is a bidding style live draft with continuous
ownership contract system. Each owner receives
$300 of fictional money to spend on his team. A total
of 35 players are drafted by each team. The draft
consists of the following two phases:
REGULAR PHASE
Salary Cap: $300
Type of draft: Bidding style
Number of players selected in this phase: 25
The Regular phase consists of open bidding for first 25
active players on each teams roster with each teams
salary cap at $300. Owners take turns announcing
player up for bid until all teams have 25 players on
their active roster. Players are announced by owners
in a clockwise manner starting with franchise owner
with worst won-lost percentage from previous year,
or by alphabetical order by city name. Note that
since everyone has opportunity to bid on each
player in draft, there is no advantage in acquiring a
player by announcing his name. Each owner must
have at least $1 allocated to bid on each of the 25
players for his active roster.
The DYNASTY League Baseball live draft room has
required position slots for you to fill including at least
one back up at every position.
Franchises are allowed to exceed $300 salary cap
after the draft and during the season when new
players are acquired via trades, but must get below
the $300 salary cap with at least $1 available to bid
per player needed to fill out their 25 man roster
before the regular phase of next years draft. Each
of these drafted players are signed to three year
contracts, with the fourth year being an option year
for the franchise at the same salary.
NEW! Salary Cap and Floor
Set up as a way to promote league parity and
discourage sellers from dumping big salaries on final
year of contract to contenders.
CAP $330: Teams can’t exceed going 10% over $300
at any point in time - setting the hard salary cap at
$330. Any trade that would put a team over the cap
will be vetoed by Commissioner.
FLOOR $270: Teams can be below the $270 floor (10%
under $300 salary cap) at the end of the draft.
However, any trades made while below the floor
must increase total salary.

MINOR LEAGUE PHASE
Type of draft: Paired picks.
Number of players selected in this phase: 10
The Minor League draft consists of paired picks (1
and 10, 2 and 9, 3 and 8 etc.) which are determined
on a "draw from the hat" basis from players who were
not selected in the Regular phase of the draft.
These players have a different type of contract and
salary than the players selected in the Regular phase
of the draft. A player selected in the Minor League
draft has a salary of $0 his first year. The franchise
owner has option of inviting player back to team the
second year for a salary of $10 or releasing him back
into draft. The third year, player must be released to
re-enter Regular phase of free agent draft.
DRAFT PREPARATION
Preparing for the draft is one of the most fun and
important aspects of being in a draft league. Tips on
how to prepare for the draft and build your dynasty
are provided in the DYNASTY League Baseball
MLB.com News Blog at:
DynastyLeagueBaseball.mlblogs.com
PLAYER CONTRACTS
Once a player has been drafted in the Regular
phase, he must be kept on your DYNASTY League
Baseball team for a minimum of 3 years unless one of
the following occurs, which automatically releases
the player from your team prior to the draft:
A PLAYER IS AUTOMATICALLY RELEASED FROM HIS CONTRACT:
1) He is traded to a real life team outside the
DYNASTY League player pool.
2) He becomes a real life free agent and signs
with a real life team outside of the DYNASTY
League player pool.
3) He retires from Baseball.
4) He is released and is not picked up by a real
life team in the DYNASTY League player pool
5) For any reason other than injury, suspension or
hold out, he is not on one of the 40 — man
rosters or a Spring Training invitee of one of the
teams in the player pool prior to draft day.
When any one of the above occurs, the player
leaves the team and the salary paid to him goes
back to the franchise owner, who now can use that
money for next year's draft to acquire new players.
NOTE: The five conditions for automatically releasing
a player listed above also apply to players signed to
guaranteed contracts.
OPTIONS TO RELEASE PLAYERS UNDER CONTRACT:
1) Buying Out Contracts:
Franchise owners may choose to buy out a
player's contract for an amount equal to half
the player's salary (rounded up to the nearest
dollar) for each year remaining on the contract.
Ex: If Robin Yount was signed to a $40 contract
during the regular phase of the draft (3 year
contract plus option year) in 1990 and before
the 1991 draft you wanted to buy him out or had
to buy him out to get under the salary cap
before the draft, it would cost you $40 [($40 x 2
years = total value of the contract remaining
($80) x 1/2 buyout = $40]. The buy out amount
would be subtracted from the $300 of available
money for drafting players in 1991 for both years
still remaining on his contract.
So in the above example, your salary cap
before the draft in 1991 would be reduced by
$40 ($300-$40=$260) to bring you to $260
available for the new draft. This would be the
only situation where the salary cap would be
below the $300 mark. Salary caps can never be
increased above $300. Released players then
re-enter the Regular phase draft.
Prior to the 2nd year draft, each franchise must
submit their current roster to the commissioner
and provide a list of players who they choose to
release (if any). This is done in order to provide
a listing of players available for the draft. Once
releases and buyouts are submitted to the
Commissioner, no further releases or buyouts
can take place prior to the draft.
REGULAR PHASE CONTRACT OPTION YEAR:
A player's contract lasts three years with the fourth
year being an option year for the franchise. This
means that upon entering the fourth year of a
player's contract:
1) The franchise owner has the choice of picking
up the option on the contract for a fourth year
at the same salary, after which the player will
automatically re-enter the Regular phase of the
2) The franchise owner has the choice of not
picking up the option for a fourth year of the
contract making that player a free agent. The
player will then reenter the Regular phase of the
3) The franchise owner has option of guarantee-
ing the contract for additional years. Once the
guaranteed contract expires the player
automatically re-enters the Regular phase of the
draft. The player's salary is increased by $5 for
each year the length of the contract is ex-
tended starting with the option year.

Ex: If you signed Don Mattingly originally for $30,
and upon entering the 4th year of his contract,
you decided to give him a 3 year guaranteed
contract. His salary would be $45 [$30 + (3 yrs. x
$5)] for years 4, 5 and 6.
TRADING:
Trading can occur at anytime except for the
following exceptions:
1) Between trade deadline and end of season.
Trading deadline is July 31, 12 Midnight. It's a
great idea to organize outing and bill it as a
trade meeting on July 31. Going to a baseball
game is ideal - you can talk trade all night.
Remember to report trades to Commissioner.
2) Once draft list of eligible players is submitted
for current draft and continuing through end of
EXPANSION AND NEW FRANCHISE OWNERS:
Whenever a new owner takes over a team he has
the choice of taking the team "as is" or releasing his
entire team into the free agent pool. The new owner
will have $300 to use to bid on free agents in the
Regular phase of the draft should he decide to
release his entire team.
MOVEMENT OF A FRANCHISE
Owners may not move franchises to a new city or
ballpark. The stability of league will be improved by
not having franchises pick up and leave every year.
RAINOUTS
Are considered as an off-day, with a double header
scheduled the next day.
COMMISSIONER, CO-COMMISSIONER AND LEAGUE
SECRETARY
The most important attributes of a Commissioner are
the ability to get along with people, flexibility and
patience, yet be able to earn the respect of the
league members.
Responsibilities of a Commissioner:
1) League schedule
2) Recruitment of members
3) Creation and distributionof league reports (1 per
month)
4) Settling disputes
5) Overseeing the operation of the league
Responsibilities of a Co-Commissioner:
1) Rosters
2) First in line of succession for Commissioner
3) Draft day duties:
a) Creation of list of players available for the
draft
b) updating of rosters and draft list during the
draft
League Secretary responsibilities:
1) Draft day
a) Running total of money remaining for each
team
b) Auctioneer of players
2) Award ceremony
3) Second in line of succession for Commissioner
POST SEASON PLAY
Team with best record plays at home for games 1-2
and 6-7 if necessary. Two off days are included after
the end of the Regular season and after the end of
the Playoffs (if applicable) prior to the World Series.
Each series also includes an off day for travel after
games 2 and 5. Assume 20 game season to deter-
mine game availability and usage for 7 game series
and 15 game season for 5 game series.
PLAYER ETIQUETTE OF LEAGUE MEMBERS
Win or lose, keep things in perspective and be a
good sport. One of the things you should not do is
play for money, it only encourages cheating and
arguments. One of the worst things you can do as a
league member, is to fail to contact your opponent
well in advance if you can't make a league series. If
you have a dispute, try to settle it using the fairest
and most realistic solution to actual baseball.
 REASONS WHY LEAGUES FAIL - AVOID THESE PITFALLS
1) Can't find enough players to get started or
replacement players to continue league.
2) Schedule too demanding and season never
finishes
3) Cheating, disputes and arguments.
4) Lack of parity- League rules allows best teams
to lock away and hoard talent indefinitely.
SETTING UP A SCHEDULE
DYNASTY League Baseball Online public leagues
play a 162 game season over a 6 month period. The
DYNASTY League Baseball Online version makes it
much easier to run a league especially when it
comes to a 162 game season where the computer
manager profile can take over for series that are not
played when people may get busy during season.
DYNASTY League Baseball schedule format is
designed to simulate a pennant race, but all months
are used when setting up schedule.
DYNASTY League Baseball Facebook group has
schedule files in Excel format in FILES section which
can be entered into Commissioner’s schedule builder
tool for Private Leagues.
Designer's Note: It's been my philosophy to try to get
as much enjoyment out of process of playing each
and every game and avoid playing the game just to
crunch numbers to look at when you are finished.
Make up games that you miss ASAP by contacting
your opponent and making arrangements to play.
The schedule runs from Opening Day in March just to
the last day of the regular season in October.

SCHEDULE BREAKDOWN BY NUMBER OF TEAMS
Organization Teams per Series in
Series out
Games per
(# of teams)
League
League**
of League*
Team
4***
2**
2**
8****
10****
12****
2*****
* vs. each team out of league, "2 game series"
** vs. each team in league, "3 game series"
*** 2 "3 game series" and 2 "2 game series"
**** 2 Divisions per league
*****"3 game series" in Division, "2 game series"
outside Division
Designer's Note: One of the main reasons for having
3 game series instead of 4 game series involves
make-up games. During the course of the season
you'll find there will be series that have to be made
up. While it's possible to play six games or two series
in an evening, eight games with two series is too
many games to play in one night.
MINOR LEAGUE CALLUPS AND RELEASES
Players sent down to minors must remain there for 10
days.
INJURY/LIMITATION REPORT RULES
This report is required to be with you during all games.
You will list AB used up on USE requirements and
injuries as they occur during the game on your
report. Also remember to always number your
games on your scoresheet in the order you played
them to determine injury length and pitcher rest.
Opposing players and the Commissioner may wish
to view this report on request. It is also important to
bring all of your scoresheets to check for pitcher
availability due to rest requirements.
RAIN OUTS:
Rain outs are treated as an off day and count
towards pitcher rest and injury duration. If more than
one game remains of a series the next two games
are considered as a double header. Pitchers do not
receive rest between games of a double header.
RESCHEDULED GAMES:
Games that are missed must be made up as soon as
possible. Always make sure to call your opponent
and either the Commisioner or Co-Commisioner if
you can not play him during the scheduled date.
For weather purposes, use the month that you are
actually playing the rescheduled game in.
ACTIVE ROSTER:
Prior to each game you must determine your 25 man
roster.
POSITIONS:
If injuries or ejections leave you with no players who
can play a position, the most logical player (players
who have played the position before in their careers,
infielders playing other infield positions, etc.) is used
for the remainder of the series and is assigned the
worst possible defensive ratings. This situation must
be remedied after the series either by a call-up from
a teams Minor league, trade or acquiring a “scrub”
player left over from the draft.
In extra innings, a pitcher may play the outfield or
infield for one batter using the worst possible
defensive ratings if the manager wants to make a
double switch and bring in a new pitcher for one
batter and keep the current pitcher in the game.
Design Depot Inc.
Phone:
561.494.2711
Email: orders@designdepot.com
You can find many additional
season player card sets at the
Ticket Window store link found in
right column at:
DynastyLeagueBaseball.com
DYNASTY League Baseball
Online free trial for Windows OS,
Mac OS, iPad iOS and Android at:
DynastyLeagueBaseball.com
Join DYNASTY League Baseball
Facebook Group
Follow @PursuePennant on Twitter

LEAGUE RULES CONCERNING PITCHER BATTING
American site: DH
National site: pitcher bats
OFFICIAL REPORTS
Are made out at the end of each month starting at
the end of April. These reports will be available
through the following month and will be available at
each league meeting. Remember to bring your
scoresheets from at least the two previous series to
each meeting in order to check on pitcher availabil-
ity. Report all injuries and the game number that the
player was injured ASAP to the Commissioner's office.
STATISTICS
Board game leagues should make keeping statistics
optional. It is useful for teams to keep statistics, but
requiring them to be kept and turned into the
League office will be difficult for both league
members and the Commissioner to keep up with.
DYNASTY League Baseball Online tracks statistics,
leaders, game logs and standings in real time.
Designer's Note: Small leagues of 6 or less may be
able to make keeping statistics mandatory.
PENNANT RACE SCENARIO
This is a great way to play for one player, two players
and even larger groups. Each player manages his
favorite team down the stretch picking up the
season for the final month. This always leads to red-
hot finishes as you re-live most exciting part of the
season. If you and a friend played the great 1993
San Francisco-Atlanta pennant race, one player
would manage Atlanta and the other San Francisco.
If a series is scheduled that does not include both
teams, the manager whose team wasn't included
takes over for the opposing team. For example, if an
Atlanta vs. Pittsburgh series is scheduled, the San
Francisco Manager would manage as the Pittsburgh
Manager and try to knock off San Francisco to gain
ground in pennant race for his Atlanta team.
SAMPLE REPORT
SNBL ’92 REPORT #3
August 28, 1992
STANDINGS
W
L
PCT
GB
Minnesota
.594
-
Milwaukee
.567
Boston
.552
1.5
Detroit
.367
Chicago
.259
9.5
N
W
L
PCT
GB
New York
.743
-
Chicago
.742
St. Louis
.594
5.5
Cincinnati
.433
10.5
San Diego
.167
20.5
TRANSACTIONS:
MINNESOTA traded Cesar Tovar and Jim Perry to
DETROIT for Bill Freehan and Mickey Stanley
SCORES
June 28
Cin 5 at Bos 10
Det 5 at NY 7
Chi A 5 at SD 4 (14)
Cin 2 at Bos 1
Det 0 at NY 7
Chi A 7 at SD 3
StL 4 at Chi A 2
Chi N 0 at Mil 7
StL 6 at Chi A 0
Chi N 3 at Mil 4
July 12
Bos 2 at NY 11
StL 6 at Det 5
Cin 7 at Min 15
Bos 3 at NY 4
StL 3 at Det 5
Cin 6 at Min 5
SAMPLE EXCEL LEAGUE ROSTER
LEAGUE ROSTERS
Total $ spent: $291
Team: St. Louis
PITCHERS
$
Contract Year
Gibson, Bob
2-4
Carlton, Steve
2-4
Osteen, Claude
Hoerner, Joe
Raymond, Claude
Grant, Mudcat
Arrigo, Jerry
Singer, Bill
Abernathy, Ted
Thigpen, Bobby
CATCHERS
McCarver, Tim
Bocabella, John
Didier, Bob
Dyer, Duffy
INFIELDERS
McCovey, Willie
Torre, Joe
Beckert, Glenn
Maxvill, Dal
Ruiz, Chico
Lefebvre, Jim
OUTFIELDERS
Aaron, Hank
Brock, Lou
4 AR 5 (guaran-
teed contract with automatic release in 5th year)
Johnson, Alex
Tolan, Bobby
Gaston, Cito
MINORS
P Bouton, Jim
P Mikkelsen, Pete
C Torborg, Jeff
IF Davanon, Jerry
BUYOUTS
None

Bob Kaplan
Reede Stockton
Jeff (Kamikazee) Moylan
Jeff and Norman Blumberg
Michael Mitrione
Jack Aiello
Bill and Dolly Moylan
Robert Long
Carole Sappington
Ted Robinson
Paul Molitor
Julian Chechatka
Drew, Justin, Joshua and Jordan Barnard
Tom Burke
Dan Treuden
Jamie Hall
This is the most talented team of people I have ever
worked with and it shows. The design goals for
DYNASTY League Baseball were very ambitious.
These people demonstrated the faith that nothing
was impossible and rose to the challenge. This is the
stuff Dynasties are made of...
Enjoy the game!
Michael Cieslinski
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
As I reflect on the immense effort of this project, I am
reminded that Dynasties are not created with just
one star. It takes a team effort to win consistently
and perform at the highest level. Truly great perfor-
mance is created by truly great teams. Here are
some of the many contributors:
To Lead Programmer Jamie Hall who never ceases to
amaze me with his knowledge, intelligence, work
ethic, ability to get things done and overall brillance.
If there is a Greatest Team of software developers
you belong on it Jamie. A special thank you for
making DYNASTY League Baseball Online a reality
and better than I ever could have dreamed.
To Lead Programmer Dan Mintz who has been in the
lineup for all 162 games of the season. Dan, you are
the Cal Ripken Jr. of DYNASTY League Baseball.
Dan's leadership, insight, knowledge and tenacity
have been invaluable.
To Programmer Reede Stockton who is DYNASTY
League Baseball's MVP (Most Valuable Programmer).
Reede's state of the art programming of the player
card generation program still has me buzzing.
To Steve Mitrakos for stepping up to the plate and
hitting a HR with customers, retailers and leagues.
Steve's electric personality has ignited many rallies for
DYNASTY League Baseball.
To Paul Molitor, Bob McClure, Jim Gantner, Dennis
Martinez, Tom Treblehorn and Ted Robinson are
appreciated for their contributions over the years.
To Daniel Treuden who does an excellent job
assisting with each season’s pitcher ratings and is
always there to help out on special projects.
To our DYNASTY League Baseball customers — the
best fans in the world.
To the owners of Design Depot. Every DYNASTY
needs great ownership that demonstrates faith that
the team can win. You deserve as much applause
as anyone else on the team:
Tulio (Kamikazee) Otero
Angel Gonzalez-Sanfeliu
Rosemary and Alex Cieslinski
Jim Vagourdes
Perry Andrus
Cary Wolfson
Rob Harrison
Bev Paulan
Tom Drenka
Bruce Barber
Sid Sun
Peter and Russ Altman
Al Holmes
Jack Vetscher