The Esoteric Order of Gamers
orderofgamers.com
High quality materials for the dedicated devotee of immersive, thematic tabletop games. Game rules summaries, 
foamcore box plans, articles, interviews, reviews, videos, tutorials, forums and lots more.
 @EOGamers 
 facebook.com/EOGamers 
 EsotericOrderGamers 
 instagram.com/orderofgamers 
Sign up to the monthly newsletter at orderofgamers.com!

THE ESOTE®IC 
O®DE® NEEDS 
YOU!
I’ve been supplying tabletop gamers with free, professional quality rules 
summaries like this one for more than a decade. I’ve made over 300 of them!
The Esoteric Order of Gamers also features hundreds of entertaining and 
informative videos about our hobby.
But it takes time and money to give you all this great gaming stuff. Could you 
spare just a few $ a month to support my work? Become part of the official 
EOG supporter community on Patreon (and score some bonus rewards!)
patreon.com/esotericorder
Thankyou! 
Peter (Universal Head)
Hello fellow gamer

The Character card designs are 
double-sided and set up so the back 
of each page is flipped and matches 
to print on two sides of one sheet.
Game: 	
EARTH REBORN
Publisher: 	
Z-MAN GAMES (2010)
Page 1: 	
Rules summary 1 front	
Page 2: 	
Rules summary 1 back
Page 3: 	
Rules summary 2 front
Page 4: 	
Rules summary 2 back
Page 5: 	
Play Aid/Character reference front 
Page 6: 	
Play Aid/Character reference back 
Page 7: 	
Equipment/Floor Tile reference front 
Page 8: 	
Equipment/Floor Tile reference back 
Page 9: 	
Character Card redesign NORAD front 
Page 10: 	
Character Card redesign NORAD back 
Page 11: 	
Character Card redesign Salemite1 front 
Page 12: 	
Character Card redesign Salemite1 back 
Page 13: 	
Character Card redesign Salemite2 front 
Page 14: 	
Character Card redesign Salemite2 back 
v2.9
Jun 2019
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for additional reference. The 
Esoteric Order of Gamers makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher and copyright holder, and does 
not directly benefit financially from this work. Artwork from the original game is copyrighted by the publisher and 
used without permission. This PDF may not be re-posted online, sold or repurposed in any way. 
Created by 
Peter Gifford 
(Universal Head) for:
In need of exceptional 
quality graphic design for 
your next project? 
www.universalhead.com

SETUP
Choose a scenario and build the map as shown using the board 
frame, appropriate floor tiles, and doors.
Each player chooses a faction and takes a player aid screen and 
the character cards for their characters in the scenario, placing 
them in front of their screen with their Healthy side faceup. 
Position the matching miniatures on the map according to the 
scenario instructions.
Put all the Order tiles in the cloth bag and the Command Point 
(CP) / Wound counters in a pile (the bank).
Follow any other setup steps in the scenario instructions. 
TURN SEQUENCE
1. INITIATIVE PHASE
Drawing Order Tiles
Each player secretly draws Order tiles from the bag and lays 
them faceup behind his screen until he has a total of 5 tiles. 
If you have kept Order tiles from the previous turn, only draw 
enough tiles to reach 5 tiles in total. 
Start with the player who has the Initiative marker, followed by 
the other players in clockwise order. If the bag is empty, return 
all tiles from the discard pile to the bag and resume drawing.
For the first turn only, a player may draw 5 new tiles from the 
bag, and return the tiles he initially drew to the bag.
Obtaining Command Points (CP)
Each player receives CP counters from the bank and places 
them behind his screen, determined by:
Your base CP allowance as specified in the scenario
Bonus CP, if any, for each character card under your control 
at the beginning of this phase (see the Bonus CP icon).
Determining Initiative
The scenario determines who receives the Initiative and plays 
the first round in the Activation phase. That player takes the 
Initiative marker and places it in front of his screen. 
2. ACTIVATION PHASE
The Activation phase consists of a series of rounds. A round is 
one action chosen from the list below performed by one player. 
Actions generally require spending Command Points (CP). 
The player currently performing an action is the active player.
Activate a Character (? CP)
You may activate a character you control. Engage its character 
card (rotate it clockwise 90°) on its first activation this turn.
Then perform either or both of the following options:
1. Assign an Order Tile
Choose an Order tile from behind your screen and place it below 
the character card. Only one new Order tile can be assigned per 
round of activation; but a character may have any number of 
Order tiles assigned to it at any given time. 
Order tiles stay assigned until discarded in the Final phase.
If you forgo the option of assigning an Order tile when first 
activating a character, the character is waiting for orders. A tile 
may still be assigned to it in a later Activation round.
2. Execute One or More Orders
Take CP counters from behind your screen and place them next 
to a chosen order section from the assigned Order tiles. Then 
execute the order(s).
In a single round of activation, you can execute multiple orders 
from the same Order tile, or execute multiple orders from 
different assigned Order tiles. The orders can be the same or 
different types, but they need to be executed in sequence.
Place the CP on each order as you execute that order to keep 
your opponent guessing.
You may attach an Order tile to a character, yet spend no CP on 
it or any other Order tiles assigned to the character, saving the	
orders for a future activation round. CP may still be spent on it 
in a later Activation round.
Command Point Constraints
CP may only be spent on empty order sections (order sections 
that have not previously received CP). The number of CP 
counters in an individual section may not exceed the number 
shown on that order section.
The total number of CP spent on the character since the 
beginning of the turn may not exceed his Maximum CP per turn.
You may spend less CP on an order section than the maximum 
allowed for that section; remaining available CP there are lost.
Order Execution Constraints
An order section with more than 1 CP must be executed as a 
single order, and cannot be split into several orders of fewer CP.
Separate order sections must be executed as separate orders 
(even the same type), and cannot be merged into a single order.
The Move order is not subject to some of these constraints.
Reactivate Previously Activated Character (? CP)
Once every character under the player’s control has been 
activated (all character cards engaged), you may reactivate 
a previously activated character. The character card stays 
engaged; you may assign an Order tile to it and spend CP.
Draw 1 Order Tile from the Bag (1 CP)
Return 1 CP from behind your screen to the bank. Then draw 
one Order tile from the bag and place it behind the screen.
If there are no more Order tiles in the bag, return all Order tiles 
from the discard pile back to the bag, then draw your tile.
During the Activation phase, there are no limits to the number 
of Order tiles you may have behind your screen. However, no 
more than 5 tiles may remain by the end of the turn.
Choose 1 Order Tile from the Discard Pile (2 CP)
Return 2 CP from behind your player’s screen to the bank. 
Then search through the tiles in the order discard pile, secretly 
choose one, and place it behind your screen.
This action cannot be performed if the pile is empty.
Pass
Do nothing for this round. If you chose to Pass in a previous 
round you may still decide to act again in the next round. 
If all players pass in succession, the Activation phase concludes 
and players proceed to the Final phase. 
End of Round
When the active player has performed one of the above actions, 
it is the end of his round of Activation. Close all Sliding doors 
that have been opened this Activation round.
The opponent becomes the active player; it is now his turn to 
play a round with one of the actions above.
3. FINAL PHASE
Check for victory conditions by referring to the scenario rules.
Disengage character and equipment cards by rotating them 
counterclockwise 90°.
Move all Order tiles assigned to characters to the order discard 
pile, facedown.
Return all CP counters back to the bank, including all unused 
CP counters behind player screens. 
All players discard Order tiles in excess of 5 from behind their 
screens, and may discard all or part of their remaining tiles. 
Announce and show the other players (facedown) how many 
tiles you are keeping behind your screen.
MOVE
For every CP spent on a Move order, a character gains as many 
Movement Points (MVP) as the Movement value on its card.
A character does not have to use all its MVP, but unused points 
are lost at the end of the order.
Unlike other orders, you may spend CP on Move order sections 
that already contain CP counters, and a Move order section 
containing more than 1 CP may be split into individual Move 
orders. Separate Move order sections from one or more Order 
tiles may also be merged to execute a single Move order.
Movement Restrictions
Moving to an adjacent square costs 1 MVP. Squares are 
adjacent if they touch on one side and are not separated by a 
wall or closed door. Diagonals are never used for movement.
Characters may pass through friendly or dead characters, but 
may not pass through enemy characters, walls, or closed doors.
They cannot enter squares outlined with a yellow dotted line, 
unless the floor element has been destroyed. There can never be 
2 figures in the same square at the end of a round. 
A figure may change its facing any time during its movement 
without using MVP, as long as it always faces the side of a 
square, never diagonally. Facing is indicated by the direction 
the knife on the figure’s base is pointing.
At the end of movement, choose a final facing for the figure. 
It stays in this position until the next Move order. 
Doors
Small doors are 1 square wide, large doors are 2 squares wide. 
A door can never cover a double wall. Both types of doors 
(sliding and wooden) can be opened, and wooden doors can be 
closed, by a figure immediately facing the door using 1 MVP. 
Turn the marker over to indicate a wooden door is open, and 
slide the marker to the side to indicate a sliding door is open.
Characters cannot close sliding doors; they close automatically 
at the end of the Activation round. Wooden doors stay open 
unless closed by a character.
Doors with a magnetic card icon can only be opened if the 
character carries a magnetic card, or the door is destroyed. 
Any character can close a wooden magnetic door even if he is 
not carrying a magnetic card.
A player may transfer a magnetic card between characters at 
no MVP cost if one character moves through another friendly 
character. A character moving through a dead character marker 
may pick up a magnetic card on the dead character.
Exiting the Map
Except when forbidden by the scenario, characters can always 
exit the map by reaching any square ‘outside’ the frame during 
movement. He is then safe but may never return. 
Any equipment cards or equipment markers he was carrying are 
removed from the game.
CLOSE COMBAT
Spend 1 or more CP on a Close Combat order section of a tile 
assigned to an activated character (the attacker) to attack one 
orthogonally adjacent enemy character (the defender) or to 
destroy adjacent floor elements.
You may not attack more than one enemy with a single Close 
Combat order. However, in a single Activation round, a character 
may perform close combat against 2 adjacent enemies by 
spending CP on 2 different Close Combat order sections.
1. Determine Combat Strength
The enemy’s position dictates which inside circle arc on the 
figure’s base determines Combat Strength:
Dark-blue: the figure’s highest Combat Strength.
Light-blue: the figure’s standard Combat Strength.
Grey: the figure’s lowest Combat Strength.
Close combat weapons increase a character’s Combat Strength. 
Look up the appropriate arc color on the Combat chart of the 
equipment card to determine the number of additional Combat 
dice or automatic hits granted by the weapon, and add these 
combat bonuses to the character’s basic Combat Strength.
A character can carry more than one close combat weapon, but 
can only use one in a given Close Combat order.
2. Resolve Close Combat
Each player rolls Combat dice equal to their Combat Strength.
Striking Hard: If more than 1 CP is spent on the Close Combat 
order (requiring a Close Combat order section showing a number 
greater than 1), every CP in excess of 1 gives +1 combat die to 
the attacker.
Critical Hits
 
	
For each die showing a critical hit, automatically inflict 
one wound on the enemy. Place a wound counter from 
the bank on the character card.
The defender can inflict wounds on the attacker with critical 
hits, but not with normal hits.
Critical hits are always applied first and may result in the 
character’s card being flipped to the Wounded side (possibly 
resulting in a lower Armor value for the normal hits).
Normal Hits
 
	
The defender counts all the normal hits he rolled on his 
Combat dice, plus any automatic hits, and adds them 
to his Armor value to determine his Defensive value.
The attacker counts all the normal hits he rolled on his Combat 
dice, plus any automatic hits, and compares his total hits 
against the Defensive value.
If the total hits exceed the Defensive value, the defender 
receives one wound for each hit that exceeded the value. If the 
hits are is equal to or less than the value, nothing happens.
Wounded and Dead Characters
When a character card on its Healthy side has received wounds 
equal to its Life Points (LP), remove all wound counters from 
the card and flip it to its Wounded side. Any remaining hits are 
placed on the Wounded side.
When a character card on its Wounded side has received 
wounds equal to that side’s LP, the character is dead. 
A character may go from Healthy to dead if it sustains wounds 
equal to or higher than the total LP on both sides of the card. 
Remove the figure from the board and position the matching 
marker in its place, face side showing. Place the figure on its 
character card to show he is dead and cannot be activated.
If the dead character was carrying a magnetic card, the enemy 
character who eliminated him can take the card for free.

Destroying Floor Elements, Doors, and Walls
 
	
Any floor element with a Defensive value icon may be 
destroyed. Doors (except open doors) and wall sections 
may be destroyed.
The active player executes a Close Combat order with the 
target as defender. If a floor element spans multiple squares, a 
successful attack against one of the squares destroys the entire 
element. The combat is resolved in the same way as it would be 
against an enemy character, with the following distinctions.
The target does not roll dice and has no Combat Strength, 
Armor value, or LPs. Doors and floor elements have a Defensive 
value on an icon on the element itself. Single or double walls 
have a Defensive value of 10.
The Attacker rolls his Combat dice and adds up all hits as 
usual, but each critical hit counts as 3 normal hits. Add 
automatic hits as required.
If the total number of hits equals or exceeds the Defensive 
value, the target is destroyed. If lower, nothing happens.
Place a destroyed floor element marker on any square of a 
destroyed floor element; every square it was covering is now 
destroyed and its properties or special capabilities are canceled. 
All the squares are now considered normal floor.
Destroyed doors are removed from the game. If the door was 
covering a single wall, replace it with a broken door marker.
Destroyed single or double wall sections are covered with a short 
broken wall marker. Two short markers that are adjacent and in 
a straight line may be replaced with a long marker.
LINE OF SIGHT
To have Line of Sight (LoS) between a figure and a target square:
The target square must be within the figure’s Arc of Sight (AoS). 
The red and orange arcs on the outer circle on a figure’s base 
define his AoS; the white arc defines what is outside the AoS. 
LoS between the figure and the target square must not be 
blocked by an obstacle. Draw a straight line from the center of 
the figure’s square to the center of the target square (or place a 
LoS check marker on each square and connect the center red 
dots). LoS is blocked if the line crosses a closed door, a wall, 
or a square occupied by any figure. Dead characters do not 
block LoS.
 
	
Some floor elements with a blocking LoS icon also 
block LoS (though LoS can reach a figure standing on 
such a square). 
If a diagonal LoS passes exactly between 2 squares, LoS is only 
blocked if both squares are blocking.
SHOOT
Only characters carrying firing weapons can shoot. Only one 
firing weapon can be used in a given Shoot order.
To perform a Shoot order with an activated or interrupting 
character (the shooter), spend 1-4 CP on a Shoot section of an 
Order tile assigned to him, and choose a target enemy figure, 
door, wall, or floor element.
1. Check LoS
Check that the shooter has a LoS to the target. If he does not, 
the Shoot order fails (the CP remain spent).
2. Determine Required Range
Count the squares to the target (not using diagonals), including 
the target’s square but not the shooter’s. You may shoot at an 
adjacent target. 
You may shoot at a door or wall; if it is adjacent, range is 0 and 
targeting is automatically successful.
3. Roll for Targeting
Total the shooter’s Shooting value and the firing weapon’s 
Shooting value (if any), and add any other Shooting bonuses.
Improved Targeting: Each CP in excess of 1 gives +1 yellow die. 
Announce the extra CP before rolling; no more than 4 CP in 
total can be spent on a Shoot order section.
Roll dice (you may roll less dice if you wish), adding any 
automatic distance points: If you roll at least one perfect shot, 
targeting is successful no matter the range. If the total distance 
rolled equals or exceeds the range, targeting is successful. In 
any other situation, targeting fails; CP spent on the Shoot order 
remain spent. You may roll fewer dice than you are entitled to.
Ammunition
 
	
If the shooter rolls at least one out of ammo icon, 
his weapon will need to be reloaded before firing again. 
Only firing weapons with the out of ammo icon can run out of 
ammunition. Engage the equipment card to indicate it cannot 
fire by rotating it 90º. Only reloading it can disengage it.
	
Out of Ammo icon: Only firing weapons with this 
icon can be reloaded, and only during the carrying 
character’s Activation, not during an Interruption. 
Spend 1 CP and place it on the card of the activated character 
carrying the weapon, then disengage the equipment card. This 
CP counts towards the Maximum CP per turn for the character.
No Order tile section is used; you can perform a reload action 
in addition to other orders in the same round of Activation.
	
Fixed Ammo icon: Place a Wound counter on the 
equipment card every time it is fired. When the number 
of counters reaches the Ammo number remove the 
equipment card from the game (or, if Search is being 
used, faceup to the bottom of the Search pile).
When transferring a firing weapon from one character to 
another, the equipment card stays in the same state.
4. Roll for Damage
If targeting is successful, check the outer circle on the shooter’s 
base to see if the target is in the red or orange fire arc (if exactly 
between the two, the shooter chooses which arc to use). Look 
up the matching red or orange damage icon on the equipment 
card, and roll Combat dice.
Pour It On: Each additional CP in excess of 1 gives +1 yellow 
damage die. Announce how many extra CP spent on the Shoot 
order you are using before rolling. 
CP used to improve targeting cannot be used again to increase 
damage, and no more than 4 CP in total can be spent on a 
Shoot order section.
Critical Hits
 
	
For each die showing a critical hit, automatically inflict 
one wound on the target. Place a wound counter from 
the bank on the target’s character card.
Critical hits are always applied first and may result in the 
character’s card being flipped to the Wounded side (possibly 
resulting in a lower Armor value for the normal hits).
Normal Hits
 
	
The shooter counts all the normal hits he rolled on his 
Combat dice, plus any automatic hits, and compares 
them to the target’s Armor value.
If the total hits exceed the target’s Armor, the target receives 
one wound counter for each hit that exceeded the value. If the 
hits are is equal to or less than the Armor, nothing happens.
Shooting Floor Elements, Doors, and Walls
A shooter can target any closed door, wall or destroyable floor 
element in the same way as in Close Combat. 
DUEL
Players duel to steal initiative, or interrupt each other’s actions. 
Players in the duel each secretly place CP counters from behind 
their screens in their hand, extend their closed fist over the 
table and simultaneously reveal their counters. The player who 
asked for the duel must bet a minimum of 1 CP. Whoever bet 
the most CP wins the duel. On a draw, nothing happens. All CP 
bet by both players go to the bank.
Dueling for Initiative
At the end of the Initiative phase, the player who doesn’t have 
the Initiative marker can ask for a duel; the other player cannot 
refuse. 
The winner gets the Initiative marker (until the next Initiative 
phase, when the scenario again specifies who gets it). On a 
draw, the player currently holding the marker keeps it.
Dueling for Interruption
During the Activation phase, the non-active player can ask for 
a duel if a character he controls (the interrupting character) 
meets one of the following conditions:
a. 	An enemy character is activated in his LoS: as soon as the 
active player declares which character he is activating (even 
before he assigns an Order tile to him).
b. 	An activated enemy character enters his LoS for the first 
time this round. He cannot ask later in the round if the 
activated character performs further movements or orders in 
the same character’s LoS.
c. 	An activated enemy character enters a square adjacent to 
him and in his LoS for the first time this round. He cannot 
later in the round if the activated character performs further 
movements in adjacent squares.
The interrupting character’s card does not become engaged as 
a result of the interruption; and it does not matter whether the 
character has been previously activated.
The non-active player can ask for a duel multiple times in a 
single round, from the same or different characters, as long 
as each duel is triggered at a different time in the round. The 
outcome of a previous duel does not prevent additional duels.
You may not ask for a duel if the interrupting character has 
already spent CP up to his maximum CP per turn.
You may not ask for a duel when the activated character is 
passing through a square occupied by another character, but 
you may once he exits the square, if he is still in LoS.
There can only be one interruption by one character under way 
at any given time. The non-active player must identify which 
character is interrupting before the duel can start.
Resolving a Duel for Interruption
If the active player wins the duel, or there is draw, nothing 
happens and he resumes his turn.
If the non-active player wins the duel, the activated character 
pauses and the non-active player can:
Assign a new Order tile to the interrupting character. Only 
one can be assigned to a character per Activation round. In 
the case of an interruption, the non-active player is in the 
context of the active player’s Activation round. If the same 
interrupting character wins 2 duels in one round, a new Order 
tile can be assigned to him in only one of the interruptions.
Execute up to 2 red or gold colored Interrupting orders from 
any Order tiles assigned to the interrupting character.
The player may decide to execute no orders, either as a result of 
a mistake or because his duel was a bluff.
Once the Interrupting character has executed up to 2 orders, 
the activated character resumes his turn.
Order Colors
Black Orders can only be used for activated characters, while 
red and gold Orders can be used for activated characters and 
interrupting characters. 
Pause
When the non-active player asks for a duel, before it resolves, 
the active player can choose the facing of the activated 
character. If the active player loses the duel, the character must 
keep that facing as long as he is paused, and can do nothing 
except defend himself if he is attacked. Note how many MVP 
and unused CP he has left. He resumes executing his orders 
from the point when he was interrupted. 
If the activated character becomes Wounded while paused, take 
into account his new Movement value and Max CP per turn. Any 
partially executed order can be completed using his previous 
values, but any new orders are subject to the new values.
EQUIPMENT
Characters carry equipment cards (firing weapons, explosive 
weapons, close combat weapons, and special items) placed 
faceup below their character card. Place equipment markers on 
the character card; they follow all equipment card rules. 
A character may carry any number of equipment cards if their 
total weight does not exceed his weight allowance. A character 
with a weight allowance of 0 can only carry equipment cards 
with a weight value of 0, or markers (which weigh nothing).
Dropping and Transferring Equipment
If a character violates the weight limit, he must immediately 
drop enough equipment cards to fall back within the limit. 
Dropping is immediate, costs nothing, can be done in the 
middle of an order, and is only possible when violating the 
weight limit. Remove the equipment cards from the game, 
(except in scenarios using Search).
During a Move order, a player may exchange equipment between 
characters at no MVP or CP cost if one character moves through 
another friendly character. 
Character Death and Equipment
When a character dies, stack his equipment cards underneath 
his character card. Dead characters have no weight limit to 
check, and cannot receive equipment.
If a character is killed during close combat, the character that 
killed him may take any or all of his equipment at no cost. 
During a Move order, a character moving through or stopping on 
a dead character marker may pick up equipment on the dead 
character at no cost.
EXPLOSIVE WEAPONS
 
	
Weapons and items with the Explosive icon cause an 
explosion when triggered. Apply all normal shooting 
steps; however damage is caused to an area of effect 
as represented on the equipment card, with the target 
square usually at its center.
Starting from the targeted square and moving outward, make 
a separate damage roll for every target (any friendly or enemy 
character, door, single wall section, double-wall section, or 
destroyable floor element) in every square of the area of effect. 
Additional CP spent to Pour it On in an explosion only needs to 
be spent once to provide the bonus to all the rolls.
If there are more than 2 targets on a single square, roll 
separately for each target. Don’t check damage for open doors.
If a target spans more than one square, it only suffers damage 
once; choose one square and roll damage for that square only.
If a door, wall, or double wall separates 2 squares in the area of 
effect, the explosion cannot spread from the first square to the 
second unless the wall or door is destroyed by the explosion.

ICONOGRAPHIC PHRASING SYSTEM (IPS)
The IPS line (special abilities) of equipment cards and floor 
elements are triggered with an Interact order of at least the 
number of CP required by the conditions. If no CP are required, 
an Interact order is not necessary; the effect is automatic. 
Character special abilities do not need Interact to be triggered. 
Timing (RED): The phase in which the ability can be used. 
Condition (PURPLE): The conditions that must be met before 
attempting the ability. 
Chance (BLUE): How many yellow or black dice the activated 
or interrupting character must roll to attempt the ability. If the 
icon refers to a characteristic, the number of dice to roll, or the 
number of automatic hits, is specified on the character card 
next to the corresponding icon.
Threshold (GREEN): The threshold level for a successful test.
Effect (YELLOW): If timing is respected, the conditions are met, 
and the test is successful, the effects are applied.
INTERACT
The Interact order is used, among other actions, to trigger the 
IPS line of floor elements and special item equipment cards 
that require spending CP. To interact with a special item, a 
character must be carrying it.
 
	
To interact with a floor element, a character must be 
standing in front of it on the square with the facing 
icon, facing in the direction indicated by the red arc.
If a room shows an IPS line and no facing icon, the IPS line can 
be triggered from any square in the room, regardless of facing.
Executing an Interact Order
Spend enough CP on an Interact section on an Order tile to 
meet the IPS conditions, and apply any other IPS conditions.
Roll dice specified by the IPS, if any. Each additional CP spent 
on the Interact order section grants +1 die of the same color. 
 0 1 2 2 3 0 0 2 3 3 3 
If the totaI test points equals or exceeds the IPS threshold, the 
effect is triggered. If not, nothing happens; CPs spent are lost.
Interact Restrictions
A special item can be triggered as many times as desired 
in the same turn or round, by the same or different characters. 
A floor element can only be triggered once per turn per 
character, whether the triggering is successful or not. 
Switch ON: When the ON effect is triggered, place the ON 
marker on the secondary IPS line starting with the ON icon to 
show that it is now active.
Switch OFF: When the OFF effect is triggered, flip the ON 
marker to OFF: the secondary IPS line is now inactive. 
If an equipment card or floor element has an ON marker on it, it 
can be switched OFF. A floor element can be switched ON by a 
character, and then OFF by another, in the same turn or round.
When more than one IPS line is available on the same card or 
element, the active player decides which he wishes to trigger. 
Only one IPS line can be triggered at a time.
Floor elements that can be destroyed (those that have a lose the 
special ability of their IPS line when they are destroyed. 
The timer icon causes the effect to be delayed. When the IPS 
line is successfully triggered, place on the line as many Wound 
counters (called time counters) as are indicated in the timer 
icon. During each Final phase, remove one time counter from all 
IPS lines with time counters. When the last counter is removed 
from an IPS line, its effect is applied.
	 	
Electricity: This icon indicates that the special ability
 
 
	
relies on electricity to function. Electrical power can 
be shut down to certain rooms or the whole building 
through the use of either the Generator floor tile or the 
Wiring Plans equipment card. 
When the power is down in a room with an electricity icon, the 
IPS line on that floor element is disabled until the end of the 
turn, when the power comes back on again. 
If the element had time counters on it and the power is down in 
this room, no counter is removed during the next Final phase.
Doors with a magnetic card icon connected to rooms where the 
electrical power is down can be opened by characters without 
magnetic cards; and sliding doors no longer close automatically. 
These doors only close automatically at the end of the Final 
phase in which the electrical power comes back.
If the electrical power is down in the whole building, all 
magnetic card doors and sliding doors are affected.
MISSION POINTS/MORALE POINTS
Teams may earn Mission Points (MP) which can then be spent 
as Morale Points to boost troop capabilities.
When a scenario uses MP, place each player’s MP marker on 
their starting number on the MP score track on the board frame.
The scenario rewards players with MP when specific objectives 
are reached, or by using special items, spying, interacting with 
certain floor elements, or triggering certain special abilities. 
SEARCH
Any character can use the Search order to search in any square 
if he is standing on a floor tile with a Room Type icon. You may 
not search outdoor squares, drillers, stairs, or sewer exits.
When a scenario uses the Search rule, after each player 
takes his equipment cards, one player shuffles all remaining 
equipment cards together under the table, then places what is 
now called the Search deck on the table. The other player may 
cut the deck. The top card of the Search deck is always visible. 
In scenarios using the Search rule, all dropped equipment cards 
go to the bottom of the Search deck, in the order they were 
dropped, with the discarded equipment side faceup.
At any time a player can look at the back side of any equipment 
card carried by any character, friendly or enemy.
Executing a Search Order
Spend 1-4 CP on a Search section of an Order tile assigned 
to the activated or interrupting character, and check the 
character’s Search value. Each additional CP spent beyond the 
first grants +1 black die.
Roll black dice, add all Search Points (SPs) rolled, plus any 
automatic SPs, and use them in addition to the rolled icons to 
search through the deck. Take the Search deck in hand with 
only the topmost card visible and the deck horizontal.
	 +0SP	
+2SP	
1SpyPt
Use 1 SP to pass the topmost card to the bottom of the Search 
deck (same side faceup). If desired and at any time, use one of 
the special icons rolled (Flip, Shuffle, or Spy Point). 
If the top card shows at least 1 Room Type Where Found icon 
matching a Room Type icon on the floor tile the character is 
searching, the character can take it, as long as the remaining 
unused SP are at least equal to the card’s Find Factor.
Once an equipment card is taken, the Search order is over and 
all remaining SP or unused special icons are lost.
Players can take equipment cards of any color. Remember to 
check the character’s weight limit. Discarded cards go to the 
bottom of the deck with the discarded equipment side faceup.
 
	
Flip the Search Deck 
over along the long edge.
 
	
Shuffle the Search Deck 
in the same way as during setup.
 
	
Spy Points obtained during a Search order can only be 
converted into MPs if the scenario is on foreign ground. 
SPY POINTS 
Spy points can be earned with: Search, Torture, some special 
abilities (from characters and floor elements), and special 
items. 
Spy points must be used as soon as they are earned. 
Each Spy point earned may perform one of the following:
Gain 1 Mission point (MP)
Secretly look at and sort the top 3 cards of the Search deck: 
Look at both sides secretly; all players will be able to see the 
top of the fourth card. Then place them in any order, any side 
faceup, and return them to the top of the deck. For 2 points, 
look at and sort the top 6 cards of the search deck, and so on.
Secretly view one of your opponent’s Mission cards, randomly 
selected (he should not know which was viewed). For 2 points, 
view 2 different Mission cards from the same opponent, and so 
on. This can only be done when playing the SAGS.
CHARACTER SPECIAL ABILITIES
A character’s special ability is an IPS line on their character 
card. Being wounded may result in losing or modifying a special 
ability. 
A character must be activated to use his special ability.
A character does not need an Interact Order tile to use his 
special ability. Any CP that need to be spent are placed directly 
on the character’s card and not on an Order tile. These CP 
count towards his Maximum CP per turn.
A character can use his special ability multiple times during the 
same turn and even during the same Activation round, as long 
as he can apply the IPS conditions each time. Any test must be 
performed each time to trigger the effect.
You may not gain additional dice for the test by spending 
additional CP, as you would on an Order tile.
If a character card has more than one IPS line, the player 
chooses which one to use.
An interrupting character can use his special ability; each 
time counts as one of the 2 orders he can execute during the 
Interruption. If he uses it twice, he can no longer execute any 
red or gold Order.
RADIO SCRAMBLING
Radio scrambling may be triggered by switching ON the 
Portable Radio Scrambler card or the fixed Communication 
Room Radio Scrambler. Both have the same IPS line.
During the Activation phase, the character must spend 1 CP on 
an Interact order, and perform a test using his Technical value. 
You may spend more than 1 CP, each extra CP adding +1 yellow 
die as usual.
If you score 3 or more test points, the Radio Scrambler is 
switched ON. Place an ON marker on the equipment card or 
floor element. It stays ON until switched OFF or destroyed.
A player who switches a Radio Scrambler ON scrambles 
the other player’s faction’s frequencies. Place the 6 radio 
scrambling markers matching your color behind your screen.
Initiative Phase: Radio Scrambling Setup
During the Initiative phase, each player who has switched ON a 
Radio Scrambler must dispatch his 6 radio scrambling markers, 
attaching one marker facedown to characters controlled by 
opponents (not dead or captured characters). If there are fewer 
than 6 opponents, excess markers are set aside, facedown.
A player dispatching scrambling markers is the scrambling 
player, and a player controlling a character receiving a marker is 
a scrambled player.
Initiative Phase: Switching Radio Channels
Each scrambled player then gets one chance to switch one radio 
channel. He exchanges (facedown and without looking at them) 
2 markers of the same color attached to 2 of his characters, 
or between a character he controls and any excess radio 
scrambling markers that were set aside. No marker is revealed.
Activation Phase: Radio Scrambling
When an activated or interrupting character with a scrambling 
marker has spent CP in excess of the CP Bonus on his character 
card, he must reveal the radio scrambling marker. 
The radio frequency is clear: Nothing happens and the character 
can keep on acting normally.
The enemy is listening to this frequency: The scrambling player 
gains 1 Spy Point. The character can keep on acting normally.
The radio frequency is scrambled: The scrambled character 
cannot spend more CP than the CP Bonus on his character 
card. Removes all excess CP from the character before 
executing the order the CP were spent for, and place them 
behind your screen. You may also retrieve the Order tile you 
have just attached to this character, if it has no CP on it.
A character with a CP Bonus value of of 0 must reveal any 
scrambling marker attached to him as soon as he is activated or 
interrupting, even if he has just been activated as ‘waiting for 
orders’. These effects are applied immediately.
If a player reveals an opponent’s scrambling marker when he 
was not supposed to, the scrambling player earns +2 MP and 
the effect of the scrambling marker becomes applicable when 
and if the character it is attached to exceeds his CP Bonus.
Switch OFF and Reactivating a Radio Scrambler
To turn OFF the Portable Radio Scrambler, first get the 
equipment card from the character carrying it (usually by killing 
him); then execute the IPS line on the card to switch it OFF.
A player can switch OFF the Portable Radio Scrambler and then 
switch it ON again for his own team using the same or another 
character, by repeating the test with the same IPS line.
To turn OFF the Communication Room Radio Scrambler, a 
character must face the Radio Scrambler floor element on one 
of the 3 facing icons and execute the IPS line to switch it OFF.
The Communication Room Radio Scrambler cannot be 
reactivated by the same character that turned it OFF since it 
can only be triggered once per turn by the same character.
When the Radio Scrambler is switched OFF, remove the 6 
corresponding radio scrambling markers from the game.
Electrical Power Down
When the power is down in the Communication Room or the 
whole building, the Communication Room Radio Scrambler 
ceases to function. The player who switched it ON immediately 
takes back his 6 radio scrambling markers behind his screen. 
He will be able to use them again during the next Initiative 
phase when the power comes back on. 
Cutting the power does not switch OFF the Radio Scrambler, it 
just stops its effect until the next Initiative phase.
The Portable Radio Scrambler is not stopped when the power is 
down. If a character drops a Portable Radio Scrambler that is 
ON, the radio scrambling effect ceases immediately.

LARGE MINIATURES
Large figures cover 4 map squares. They cannot move sideways. 
Each square of forward movement costs 1 MVP, and each 
square of backward movement costs 2 MVP. Moving is only 
possible if both target squares are valid squares to move into. 
 
	
Figures with a Rotating Cost icon on their character 
card must spend that many MVP to rotate either 90° or 
180° in either direction. It cannot choose its facing for 
free at the end of a move, or when interrupted.
Large figures cannot use stairs (stairs up or down, sewer exits). 
They can, however, pass or stand on these squares.
A character has LoS to a large figure if it has LoS to at least 
one of its 4 squares. To check LoS from a large figure, draw a 
straight line from one of the figure’s squares that contain a red 
or orange fire arc to the target, applying normal LoS rules.
If a large figure is standing in a doorway, the door can no longer 
be closed, automatically or manually.
A large figure on more than one floor tile receives the benefits 
and disadvantages of all the floor tiles. If a large figure standing 
on 2 or more floor tiles executes a Search order, the player must 
announce which room he is searching before rolling dice.
If an explosive weapon’s area of effect impacts more than one 
square of a large figure, the opponent who fired the explosive 
chooses the target square when rolling for damage. The figure 
suffers damage from an explosion only on one square.
Mammoth MK II
The Mammoth’s special ability is destroying walls and doors. 
Spend 1 CP and choose a target in the Mammoth’s LoS and 
red fire arc: either a long wall section; up to 2 adjacent short 
wall sections; a large door (only one square need be targeted); 
a short wall section and an adjacent door; or 1 or 2 adjacent 
small doors.
Roll 3 yellow dice. If the result is 4 test points or more, remove 
any targeted doors and/or place long or short broken wall 
markers on any targeted walls as appropriate. Defensive values 
of the targets are ignored.
The Mammoth’s ammunition supply is only limited by the 
number of broken wall markers available: when they run out, it 
can no longer shoot or use its special ability.
CAPTURE
To capture a character, execute a normal Close Combat order 
against an adjacent, wounded enemy character. Announce this 
is an attempt to capture, not to inflict damage, before rolling 
the dice. The character attempting the capture is the captor. 
The target of the capture is the victim.
If the damage rolled would have been sufficient to kill the 
victim, he is captured. If not, he is not captured. No actual 
damage is applied to the victim in any case.
If the victim is successfully captured, place the victim’s figure 
on the captor’s character card and place a prisoner marker on 
his character card; he is now a prisoner. A prisoner has a weight 
value of 1 (check the captor’s weight allowance).
The captor can take some or all of the prisoner’s equipment 
cards or markers if he does not exceed his weight allowance. 
Equipment cards not taken are removed from the game, or go to 
the bottom of the Search deck if the scenario uses Search. 
Prisoners
A prisoner cannot execute orders, does not provide Bonus CP 
during the Initiative phase, cannot be assigned Order tiles, 
cannot use his special ability, and cannot keep any equipment. 
He is treated like an equipment and can be transferred between 
friendly characters as long as the new captor’s weight limit is 
respected. A captor cannot carry more than one prisoner. 
A captor can voluntarily free a prisoner for 0 MVP when 
executing a Move order. The freed Prisoner is placed on any 
valid square adjacent to the captor. 
Freeing a Prisoner by Killing the Captor: As soon as a captor 
is dead, his prisoner becomes free and his figure is placed on 
the captor’s cadaver square (the player regaining control of the 
prisoner chooses his facing). Remove the prisoner marker from 
his character card. Equipment carried by the dead captor can 
be divided between the freed prisoner and any of the adjacent 
characters who rescued him.
Assassinating a Prisoner: A captor can automatically kill his 
prisoner by executing a 1 CP Close Combat order( no die roll is 
necessary). Place the prisoner’s character marker, with his face 
visible, on the captor’s square.
Freeing a Prisoner by Capturing the Captor: If a captor is 
captured by another character, the prisoner is automatically 
freed, and the captor becomes a prisoner. Its figure is placed on 
its new captor’s character card, and the freed prisoner figure is 
placed on the map in its place. All other rules for capturing and 
freeing a prisoner apply.
Capturing a Large Miniature
If a large figure is successfully captured, it stays on the map. 
Place a prisoner marker on the large figure’s character card 
and the captor takes the card. Place the captor’s miniature on 
the large figure’s character card to symbolize that the captor is 
piloting it.
The captor must stay inside the large figure if he wants to keep 
it as a prisoner. He can move (control) the large figure using the 
large figure’s Movement value, and he takes on its Armor value, 
Close Combat chart and weight allowance. He keeps his own 
Life Points, CP Bonus, and Maximum CP per turn.
For all other character statistics, the captor decides whether to 
use his own or the large figure’s when needed.
If the large figure has built-in weapons, the captor can use 
them, and he can trigger the large figure’s special ability as well 
as his own.
Other figures controlled by the captor’s controlling player can 
move through the large figure as long as it remains his prisoner. 
Figures controlled by the player who originally controlled the 
large figure cannot move through the large figure as long as it 
remains a prisoner.
If the captor inside the large figure is captured or killed, the 
large figure is automatically freed. 
If there is no captor inside the large figure at the end of any 
Activation round, it is automatically freed.
There can only be one captor inside the large figure but a 
transfer of captor can occur. This can only be done using a 
combined Move order with 2 characters. One character moves 
out of the large figure and another one enters it during the same 
Activation round.
TORTURE
Only Salemites can torture prisoners to obtain Spy Points (SP).
Spend 1-4 CP on an Interact order assigned to the captor. Each 
CP spent for torture grants 1 black Torture die. 
If the captor is carrying the Torture Kit he gains +2 Torture dice. 
If he is in the Torture Chamber, he gains +2 Torture dice.
Spy Point icons on the rolled dice are used as normal; all other 
dice results are ignored.
A captor can torture the same prisoner multiple times in the 
same Activation round. A character friendly to the captor can 
take the prisoner from him to torture him more, and 2 captors 
can exchange their prisoners to take turns torturing them. 
There is no limit to how many times the prisoner can be tortured.
COMBINATION
When a character executes an order, other characters can 
use gold order sections so they can all collectively perform a 
combined order in a single Activation round. 
All the combined characters executing the combined order 
must be controlled by the active player, and they must all must 
execute the same order type (Move, Close Combat, Shoot, 
Interact, Search, Torture). Characters cannot combine together 
to trigger a character’s special ability.
The activated character is the one activated by the active player 
this Activation round. The order section he executes can be of 
any color, but the color of the order sections executed by all other 
combined characters must be gold, and they must use previously 
assigned Order tiles to participate in the combined order.
You must spend at least 1 CP on each order section of each 
combined character (including the activated character). You can 
spend more than 1 CP on some characters if the corresponding 
order sections assigned to them allow for more than 1 CP. 
No character can exceed his Maximum CP per turn.
Except in the case of a combined Move, all dice granted by all 
combined characters executing a combined order are rolled all 
at once, adding all automatic bonuses if any.
You must spend all the CP you wish to spend on all combined 
characters before starting the order’s actual execution.
You can execute more than one combined order in the same 
Activation round but each must be resolved independently. 
A combined order cannot be executed during an interrupt.
A character can still execute a regular gold order by himself.
Combined Move
Moves more than one character in the same Activation round. 
The active player decides in which order to move, but he must 
complete the move of one character before moving another. 
Each combined character moves according to the CP spent on 
his assigned Order tile. Each moving character can be subjected 
to a Interruption Duel, but only while it is his turn to move.
Combined Close Combat
Each combined character must be adjacent to the defender. 
If the defender is attacked on different arcs, the defender 
chooses which color arc to use: dark blue, light blue or grey.
Roll all Combat dice granted by all combined characters, adding 
any automatic hits. If the defender rolls any critical hits, he 
decides how to distribute them among the attackers.
Combined Shoot
Each combined character must have LoS to the same target and 
shoot at the same target. Separately determine each shooter’s 
required range to the target.
Roll separately for each shooter to see if targeting is successful.
For each that is successful, check whether the target is in the red 
or orange fire arc to determine Combat dice and automatic hits.
Roll all Combat dice granted by all combined characters, adding 
any automatic hits, and resolve damage normally.
Combined Search
All combined characters must be on the same floor tile. A large 
figure can be partly on the same room tile as the others.
Roll all black dice granted by all the combined characters, 
adding any automatic Search points. Search through the Search 
deck as usual. Only one equipment card can be taken. The 
active player chooses which character gets the card.
If the black dice provide Spy Points, they can be converted into 
MP only if all combined characters are on foreign ground.
If a floor tile’s special ability provides extra black dice, each 
combined character benefits from this bonus cumulatively.
Combined Interact with Equipment Card
One of the combined characters (the carrier) must be carrying 
the equipment. All others must be adjacent to him.
If the IPS condition is to spend 2 CP or more, only the carrier 
needs to spend the CP. All other combined characters need only 
spend 1 CP: each additional CP gives one extra die.
If the IPS condition asks to spend only CP from one faction, 
only characters of that faction can be combined to interact with 
this equipment. 
If the IPS condition asks for a cadaver, the carrier must be 
immediately facing the cadaver.
If the equipment’s effect is to be applied to a character, any 
one combined character can benefit; the active player chooses 
which. On any case the equipment card remains with its carrier.
Any marker left on the map is placed under the carrier. An 
effect triggered in a floor tile is triggered where the carrier is 
standing. An area of effect is triggered centered on the carrier.
If a floor tile’s special ability provides extra yellow dice, each 
combined character standing on this tile benefits from this 
bonus cumulatively.
Combined Interact with Floor Element
If a floor element shows only one facing icon, you may not 
combine characters to interact with it. If there is more than one 
facing icon, each combined character must be standing on a 
facing icon, correctly facing the floor element.
If a room has no facing icon, all combined characters must be 
standing in the room, but only one can benefit from the effect.
If the IPS Condition is to spend 2 CP or more, only the activated 
character needs to spend the CP. All other combined characters 
need only spend 1 CP: each additional CP gives one extra die.
Combined Torture
Only Salemite characters can be involved in the torture. The 
prisoner’s captor must be one of the combined characters, and 
all other combined characters must be adjacent to the captor.
Each CP spent on each combined character’s Interact order 
provides +1 Torture die. 
Each combined character in the Torture Chamber gains +2 
additional Torture dice. If a combined character has the Torture 
Kit, only he gains +2 Torture dice.
MULTIPLE LEVELS
A character standing on a stairs up/down tile can use one MVP 
to move directly to the corresponding stairs down/up tile on the 
connecting level.
The square occupied by a figure standing on a stair tile is 
treated as a normal floor square, and other figures on the same 
level can have LoS to the figure. The figure can also have LoS to 
other figures on the same level, and the corresponding stair tile 
on the connecting level.
A figure standing on a stair tile can be attacked in close combat 
by any enemy adjacent figures on the same level or by an enemy 
standing on the corresponding stair tile on the connecting level. 
When close combat occurs through stair tiles, there is no facing, 
and each controlling player may choose any close combat color 
arc. This is also applicable in the case of a combined close 
combat involving one character attacking through stair tiles.
A figure standing on a stair tile can shoot at any enemy standing 
on the corresponding stair tile. The range is 1 square, and the 
target is always considered to be in the shooter’s orange fire arc, 
no matter the facing of each figure.
If a stair tile is in an explosive weapon’s red damage zone, the 
AoE is applied as normal, and the effect extends only to the 
corresponding stair tile on the connecting level. When rolling for 
damage there, consider the square to be in the red zone.

1. INITIATIVE PHASE
Drawing Order Tiles
Starting with the player with the Initiative marker and 
going clockwise, each player secretly draws Order tiles 
until he has 5 tiles faceup behind his screen. 
Obtaining Command Points (CP)
Each player takes CP counters behind his screen:
Your base CP allowance + Bonus CP for each character 
card under your control at the beginning of this phase
Determining Initiative
The player dictated by the scenario takes the Initiative 
marker and plays the first round in the Activation phase. 
2. ACTIVATION PHASE
Activate a Character (? CP)
You may activate a character you control. 
Engage its character card (rotate it clockwise 90°) on its 
first activation this turn.
Then perform either or both of the following options:
1. Assign an Order Tile
Assign one of your Order tiles to the character card. 
2. Execute One or More Orders
Assign CP counters to a chosen order section from the 
assigned Order tiles. Then execute the order(s).
Command Point Constraints
CP may only be spent on empty sections; the counters 
in a section may not exceed the number shown.
A character may not spend more than his Maximum CP.
You may spend less CP on an order section than the 
maximum allowed; remaining available CP there are lost.
Order Execution Constraints
An order section with more than 1 CP must be executed 
as a single order, and cannot be split into several orders.
Separate order sections must be executed as separate 
orders (even the same type).
Reactivate Previously Activated Character (? CP)
Once all your character cards have been engaged, 
you may reactivate a previously activated character. 
Draw 1 Order Tile from the Bag (1 CP)
Choose 1 Order Tile from the Discard Pile (2 CP)
Secretly choose one of the tiles in the order discard pile.
Pass
If all players pass in succession, the Activation phase 
concludes and players proceed to the Final phase. 
End of Round
When the active player has performed one of the above 
actions, it is the end of his round of Activation. Close all 
Sliding doors that have been opened this round.
His opponent is now the active player.
No more than 5 Order tiles may remain behind your 
screen by the end of the turn.
3. FINAL PHASE
Check for victory conditions in the scenario rules.
Disengage character and equipment cards.
Discard all Order tiles assigned to characters, facedown.
Return all CP counters back to the bank, including all 
unused CP counters behind player screens. 
Players discard Order tiles in excess of 5 from behind 
their screens, and may discard all or part of their 
remaining tiles.
CLOSE COMBAT
1. Determine Combat Strength
Check the arc on the figure’s base:
Dark-blue: the figure’s highest Combat Strength.
Light-blue: the figure’s standard Combat Strength.
Grey: the figure’s lowest Combat Strength.
Add close combat weapon combat bonuses.
2. Resolve Close Combat
Players roll Combat dice equal to their Combat Strength.
Striking Hard: Each CP in excess of 1 gives +1 combat 
die to the attacker.
 
	
For each die showing a critical hit, inflict one 
wound on the enemy. The defender can inflict 
wounds with criticals, but not with normal hits.
 
	
Defender counts all normal hits + any automatic 
hits + Armor value to find Defensive value.
Attacker counts all the normal hits + any automatic hits. 
If this exceeds the Defensive value, the defender receives 
one wound for each hit that exceeded the value. 
SHOOT
1. Check LoS
2. Determine Required Range
Count the squares to the target (not using diagonals).
3. Roll for Targeting
Shooter’s Shooting value + firing weapon’s Shooting value 
+ any Shooting bonuses.
Improved Targeting: Each CP in excess of 1 gives +1 
yellow die (maximum 4 CP in total).
Roll dice (you may roll less dice if you wish), adding 
any automatic distance points: If you roll at least one 
perfect shot, targeting is successful no matter the range. 
If the total distance rolled equals or exceeds the range, 
targeting is successful. In any other situation, targeting 
fails; CP spent on the Shoot order remain spent. You may 
roll fewer dice than you are entitled to.
	 	
If an out of ammo icon on the dice is rolled, 
 
	
the weapon must be reloaded before firing again. 
 
	
Out of Ammo: Only firing weapons with this icon 
can be run out of ammo and be reloaded. 
 
	
Fixed Ammo: the weapon can fire only a number 
of times equal to the number.
4. Roll for Damage
Look up the matching red or orange arc damage icon 
on the equipment card, and roll Combat dice.
Pour It On: Each additional CP in excess of 1 gives 
+1 yellow damage die (maximum 4 CP in total). 
 
	
For each die showing a critical hit, 
inflict one wound on the enemy. 
 
	
The shooter counts all normal hits 
+ any automatic hits.
If the total exceeds the target’s Armor, 
the target receives one wound for each hit 
that exceeded the value. 
INTERACT
To interact with a special item, a character must carry it.
 
	
To interact with a floor element, character must 
stand on the facing icon, facing the red arc.
Spend enough CP on an Interact section on an Order tile 
to meet the IPS conditions.
Roll dice specified by the IPS. Each additional CP spent 
on the Interact order grants +1 die of the same color. 
	 0 1 2 2 3
	 0 0 2 3 3 3
If the totaI test points equals or exceeds the IPS 
threshold, the effect is triggered. If not, nothing happens.
SEARCH
Spend 1-4 CP on a Search section of an Order tile, and 
check the character’s Search value. Each additional CP 
spent beyond the first grants +1 black die.
Roll black dice: SPs rolled + any automatic SPs. Use 
them in addition to rolled icons to search the deck. 
 	+0SP +2SP +3SP +3SP	 +3SP	 1SpyPt
Use 1 SP to pass the top card to the bottom of the deck. 
Use the special icons rolled (Flip, Shuffle, or Spy Point). 
To take the top card, a Room Type Where Found icon 
must match the searched Room Type, and there must be 
enough remaining unused SP to equal to its Find Factor.
Once an card is taken, the Search order is over and all 
remaining SP or unused special icons are lost.

Nick Bolter
When activated, Bolter can convert 1 MP into 4 CP 
(lower the NORAD MP marker 1 point, and take 4 CP 
from the bank to place behind the player’s screen).
These CP can be used by the NORAD player any way he 
wants. Bolter can do this as many times as desired, as 
long as there are MP available. You are not limited in the 
number of CP you can have behind your screen. If the 
bank runs out, use any other means to count CP.
Vasquez
When activated, if Vasquez has LoS to Franck Einstein, 
she can try to take control of him indefinitely. Spend 
2 CP, roll 3 yellow dice, and if 5 or more test points 
are rolled, Franck Einstein becomes controlled by the 
NORAD player until the end of the game (and cannot 
pass through Salemite figures anymore).
If Vasquez is Wounded, she only needs to spend 1 CP 
and a successful roll of 3 test points or more to turn 
Einstein into a traitor.
When Vasquez takes control of Einstein, he keeps all CP 
and Order tiles already played on him this turn.
Mammoth MK II
Deployment phase: when the Mammoth marker is 
revealed, one of the 4 squares of the Mammoth’s figure 
base must cover the square with the Mammoth marker. 
The figure can also be partly outside the map, with a 
maximum of 2 base squares outside the board’s frame.
When the Mammoth dies, its controller decides on which 
of the 4 squares to place the character cadaver marker.
James Woo
When James Woo is in a Science Room or Officer 
Section, he can spy by spending 2 CP. This is 
automatically successful and gives him 1 Spy Point.
When James Woo is Wounded, the same action costs 
him 3 CP.
Jessica Hollister
When activated, Hollister can convert 1 MP into 4 CP 
(lower the Salemite MP marker 1 point, and take 4 CP 
from the bank to place behind the player’s screen).
These CP can be used by the Salemite player any way he 
wants. Hollister can do this as many times as desired, as 
long as there are MP available. You are not limited in the 
number of CP you can have behind your screen. If the 
bank runs out, use any other means to count CP.
Franck Einstein
Franck Einstein is a traitor. 
If Einstein’s card is not engaged, the NORAD player can 
spend 2 CP during his turn to receive Spying information 
from him. 
The NORAD player spends 2 CP on Einstein’s character 
card, engages it, rolls 2 black dice, and if 4 or more 
test points are rolled, the NORAD player receives 2 Spy 
Points.
The CP spent by the NORAD player on Einstein’s card 
count toward Einstein’s Maximum CP per turn.
This traitor ability can only be used once per turn by the 
NORAD player, since it involves engaging Einstein’s card.
When Einstein is Wounded, his traitor spying ability 
functions the same way, but it requires 3 CP from the 
NORAD player and only provides 1 Spy Point. 
This ability can only be used while Einstein is under 
Salemite control.
Franck Einstein’s Maximum CP per turn is always 5 CP, 
no matter who controls him or how they were spent.
Einstein is not a zombie.
Cherokee Bill
Cherokee Bill carries a flamer and is a traitor. 
If Bill’s card is not engaged, the NORAD player can 
spend 2 CP during his turn to activate Bill as a NORAD 
Character. 
The 2 CP spent are placed on Bill’s character card. Bill 
then becomes a traitor and gets a Maximum CP per turn 
of 6 CP per turn that only the NORAD player can spend 
on him.
Bill remains a NORAD Character until the Final phase 
of this turn, after which he returns to Salemite control. 
When acting as a traitor, Bill cannot pass through 
Salemite characters.
When Bill is Wounded his special ability changes. If 
Bill’s card is not engaged, the NORAD player can spend 
2 CP during his turn to receive Spying information from 
him. 
The NORAD player spends 2 CP on Cherokee’s character 
card, engages it, then receives 2 Spy Points.
The CP spent by the NORAD player on Bill’s card count 
toward Bill’s Maximum CP per turn.
This traitor ability can only be used once per turn by the 
NORAD player, since it involves engaging Bill’s card.
Professor John Kendall Jr
Professor Kendall must be immediately facing a 
cadaver to be able to turn it into a zombie. A cadaver is 
represented by a skull icon printed on a floor tile or by a 
character marker placed on the board.
Kendall spends 2 CP, and if he successfully performs 
the Scientific test, the cadaver is re-animated as a 
zombie. A dead character marker is removed from the 
board and replaced with an available zombie figure. 
On a floor element, place an Empty Grave marker on 
the appropriate square and place an available zombie 
figure on top. The Empty Grave marker indicates that 
the square on which it is placed no longer contains a 
cadaver that can be reanimated as a zombie.
If a dead character marker is still holding equipment 
when reanimated as a zombie, the new zombie only 
keeps the equipment he can carry while respecting the 
Weight Limit rule. Each equipment card in excess is 
discarded to the bottom of the Search pile.
A dead zombie cannot be reanimated as a zombie again. 
Dead character markers cannot be moved by characters.
Jeff Deeler
During the Initiative phase, each zombie Deeler has in 
his LoS receives 2 CP from the bank. These can be spent 
only by the targeted zombie(s), and raises the Maximum 
CP per turn that can be spent on each of these zombies.
When Deeler is Wounded, each zombie in LoS during the 
Initiative phase receives a +3 CP Bonus instead of +2. 
Jack Saw
Saw is a zombie. He can use his saw-arm to cut through 
adjacent doors or walls in his dark blue arc. The 2 IPS 
lines are 2 different options from which Saw can choose.
For 2 CP, roll 6 yellow dice. If 10 or more test points 
are rolled, Saw destroys an adjacent wall. Place a short 
Broken Wall marker. 
For 1 CP, with no test or dice roll, Saw can destroy any 
adjacent door. Remove the door from the board, or flip it 
on its destroyed side if it covers a single wall.
Zombies
You can never generate more zombies than you have 
zombie figures and zombie character cards. Therefore 
in the basic game the Salemite player can never control 
more than 2 zombie figures at the same time. 
You cannot generate a ‘Jack Saw’ zombie using the 
Zombie Serum or Professor Kendall’s special ability.
CHARACTERS

EQUIPMENT
Ammunition
A character carrying ammunition cannot run out of ammo.
Bazooka
If the Mammoth MK II is hit by the bazooka, its Armor 
value loses 2 points. This also applies if you combine a 
bazooka with other weapons in a combined Shoot order.
Chainsaw
destroy any type of door. The carrier must be adjacent to 
the door and it must be in its dark blue or light blue arc. 
The chainsaw can be used as a close combat weapon.
Deadly Virus
Spend 1 CP and perform a successful Scientific test 
to switch ON the deadly virus. Once it is ON, place 4 
Wound counters on the card as time counters. Place 
the deadly virus marker on the square occupied by the 
carrier. At each Final phase following the Activation of 
the deadly virus, remove a time counter. When the last 
counter is removed, place the card at the bottom of the 
Search pile and remove the deadly virus marker from 
the board.
Each character entering a floor tile section containing a 
deadly virus marker receives 2 Wounds. Each character 
still standing on a floor tile section containing a deadly 
virus marker during the Final phase receives 2 Wounds.
Flamer
The flamer uses a special type of explosive area of effect 
(AoE), as pictured on the card. The AoE starts on the first 
square in front of the shooter and spreads as indicated. 
There is no LoS and no targeting roll necessary. A flamer 
cannot be used to destroy walls and sliding doors though 
it can destroy any other type of floor element.
Gas Mask
Spend 1 CP to switch ON the gas mask (put it on). The 
carrier is now immune to all gas effects such as the 
deadly virus or toxic gas capsule. 
Infrared Goggles
switch ON the goggles. The carrier is now not affected 
by the smoke grenade effect and his LoS extends into, 
through, and beyond the smoke grenade’s AoE.
Jet Pack
switch ON the jet pack. The carrier immediately gets 6 
squares of flying movement, and can pass over enemy 
characters and any square outlined with a yellow dotted 
line (but not walls).
If the jet pack is triggered with a combined order, only 
the carrier benefits. Itt may not be transferred to a 
friendly character during the flying movement.
Place a Wound counter on the card each time it is 
successfully activated; it may be activated 5 times. The 
Mammoth MK II cannot use the jet pack.
Kevlar Armor
The carrier gets a permanent Armor value of 5 (replacing 
its original Armor value on the character card).
Laptop Computer
Spend 1 CP, engage this card, and perform a successful 
Technical + Scientific test. Gain 4 Mission Points if the 
test is successful. Disengage the laptop at each Final 
phase. Transferring the laptop doesn’t disengage it.
Magnetic Card
Has the same effect as a magnetic card marker, allowing 
the carrier to open all doors with a magnetic card icon.
Magnetic Disrupter
to switch ON the disrupter. It affects the entire tile 
where the carrier is standing. Any shooting actions 
involving a shooter or a target standing in that floor tile 
are prevented. At the next Final phase, the disrupter is 
automatically switched OFF. It needs to be switched ON 
again on the next turn to be in effect again.
Medical Kit
Spend 1 CP and perform a successful Scientific test 
to gain 2 Life Points. The carrier can heal himself or 
any character he is immediately facing. If the character 
is brought back from Wounded to Healthy, his new 
characteristics are immediately applicable.
Mines
to place a Mine marker on the carrier’s square. The 
marker is switched ON at the following Final phase. 
Once ON, any character entering the square triggers the 
mine explosion. Each card provides 2 mines. Place a 
Wound counter on the card each time a Mine marker is 
successfully placed on the board.
Morphine
Spend 1 CP and perform a successful Scientific test to 
gain 4 Life Points. The carrier can heal himself or any 
character he is immediately facing. If the character 
is brought back from Wounded to Healthy, his new 
characteristics are immediately applicable.
Motion Detector
The carrier can treat all Black-colored orders from Order 
tiles attached to him as if they were Red.
Plastic Explosive
switch ON the plasticexplosive. Place the card beside 
the board and place the Plastic Explosive marker on the 
square occupied by the carrier. At the next Final phase, 
the plastic explodes (place the card faceup at the bottom 
of the Search pile).
Power Fist
destroy any type of door with a Defensive value of 4 or 
less. The carrier must be adjacent to the door and facing 
it in its dark-blue or light-blue arc. The fist can be used 
as a Close Combat weapon.
Secret Files
A NORAD character can spend 2 CP and perform a 
successful Technical test to gain 2 Spy Points usable 
any way he wants. Discard the card to the bottom of the 
Search pile after a successful test.
Smoke Grenades
A smoke grenade can be thrown in the carrier’s red or 
orange fire arc with the same effect. The grenade does 
not cause damage but prevents all LoS in the indicated 
area of effect, although the effect does not extend 
through walls or closed doors.
If a door is opened/destroyed or a wall is destroyed, the 
effect extends through it as indicated on the card. If this 
same door is later closed, the effect no longer spreads 
beyond the door.
The smoke grenade effect lasts 2 turns. Place the Smoke 
Grenade marker in the targeted square with the #2 facing 
up when thrown. Flip the marker to its other side at the 
Final phase of the first turn. Remove the marker from the 
board at the Final phase of the 2nd turn.
Targeting Lens
The carrier gets +1 yellow die for all targeting rolls.
Taser
A Taser can shoot in the shooter’s red or orange fire arc 
with the same effect. It does not cause damage but 
paralyzes the targeted character. Roll for targeting as 
normal; if successful, roll 2 yellow dice (adding any 
additional dice from extra CP spent on the Shoot order). 
If the final score is 3 test points or more, the targeted 
character is paralyzed and loses 2 CP this turn.
Put 2 CP counters from the bank on the targeted 
character’s card. These CP count towards the Maximum 
CP per turn this character is entitled to. You can tase a 
character more than once in the same round or turn.
A taser shot and normal shooting cannot be combined 
during a combined Shoot order.
Technical Toolbox
The character carrying this equipment gains +2 yellow 
dice for all technical tests.
Time Bomb
switch ON the time bomb. Place this card beside the 
board and place the Time Bomb marker showing the 
number 2 side on the square occupied by the carrier. 
At the next Final phase, switch the marker to its other 
side. At the 2nd Final phase the bomb explodes (place 
the card face up at the bottom of the Search pile).
If a character is standing on a Time Bomb marker, he can 
switch OFF the bomb by spending 1 CP and performing 
the same Technical test. 
If a time bomb is successfully switched OFF this way, 
the character can pick up and carry the Time Bomb 
equipment card previously set aside.
Torture Kit
The carrier gets +2 black dice for all Torture rolls.

Toxic Gas Capsule
Spend 1 CP and perform a successful Scientific test to 
switch ON the toxic gas capsule. The carrier and other 
characters standing in the 4 adjacent squares receive 2 
Wound counters. Other characters standing in the orange 
damage zone receive one Wound counter.
If a large miniature occupies more than one square in the 
area of effect, it only receives 2 Wound counters in total.
The effect of the toxic gas capsule is instantaneous and 
doesn’t last. Place the equipment card faceup at the 
bottom of the Search pile after resolving its effect.
U.S. Constitution
During the Initiative phase, the player controlling the 
carrier draws Order tiles until he has 6 behind his screen.
Wiring Plans
If the carrier is standing in a Technical Room he can try 
to activate the bottom IPS line of this card: Spend 3 CP 
and perform a successful Technical + Scientific test to 
shut down the electrical power in the whole building.
If the carrier is standing in any other type of room, he 
can try to activate the upper IPS line of this card: Spend 
1 CP and perform a successful Technical + Scientific 
test to shut down the electrical power in the room he is 
standing in.
Zombie Control Device
to switch this equipment ON. If the character carrying 
it has a zombie in LoS, he can now engage the zombie 
control device to boost this zombie’s CP this turn. Take 
3 new CP from the bank dedicated to this zombie and 
usable anytime he is activated this turn. These extra CP 
can be spent beyond the zombie’s Maximum CP per turn.
Zombie Serum
Only the Salemite Player can use the Zombie Serum. 
The carrier must be immediately facing a cadaver 
(represented by a skull icon directly printed on a 
floor tile, or a character marker representing a dead 
character). 
The carrier spends 1 CP and if he successfully performs 
a Scientific test, the cadaver is re-animated as a 
zombie. A dead character marker is removed from the 
board and replaced with an available zombie figure. 
On a floor element, place an Empty Grave marker on 
the appropriate square and place an available zombie 
figure on top. The Empty Grave marker indicates that 
this square no longer contains a cadaver that can be 
reanimated as a zombie.
If a dead character marker is still holding equipment 
when reanimated as a zombie, the new zombie only 
keeps the equipment he can carry while respecting the 
Weight Limit rule. Each equipment card in excess is 
discarded to the bottom of the Search pile.
A dead zombie cannot be reanimated as a zombie again. 
Dead character markers cannot be moved by characters.
In case of a combined order to use the zombie serum, 
only the carrier needs to be immediately facing the 
cadaver.
FLOOR TILES
Armory
A character searching in this room adds +1 black die to 
his Search roll.
Cemetery
Each grave holds one cadaver that can be turned once 
into a zombie with the IPS lines of Pr. Kendall or the 
Zombie Serum. The character must be immediately 
facing a tomb.
Chemistry Lab
A character standing in this room has +2 yellow dice to 
his Scientific value for any Scientific test.
Command Post
During the Initiative phase, if at least one NORAD 
character occupies this room with no Salemite character 
present, the NORAD player receives +2 CP; and vice versa.
Communication Room
Once the radio scrambler is ON in this room, a character 
need not stand on a facing icon or even be in this room 
for the radio scrambling to remain active.
Cryogenic Chamber
This room provides one cadaver that can be turned into 
a zombie with the IPS lines of Pr. Kendall or the Zombie 
Serum. The character must stand correctly on the facing 
icon. If the electrical power is down here, cadavers are 
not accessible and cannot be turned into zombies.
Generator
A character correctly standing on the facing icon can 
spend 1 CP and perform a Technical test (roll as many 
yellow dice as his Technical value). If he rolls 3 or more 
test points, the electrical power is down in the whole 
building until the Final phase. The generator cannot be 
destroyed.
Infirmary
Spend 1 CP and perform a successful Technical + 
Scientific test to gain 2 Life Points. The character 
performing this action can heal himself or any other 
character standing on a facing icon in this room. If the 
character is brought back from Wounded to Healthy, his 
new characteristics are immediately applicable.
Missile Room
A character correctly standing on a facing icon can spend 
2 CP and perform a Technical test. If successful, place 
an ON marker on this floor element and 2 CP markers 
as time counters. At each Final phase, remove one time 
counter. When the last one is removed, the missiles 
are launched. If this was an objective, gain the MP 
indicated. Otherwise, this has no effect.
Morgue
This room provides 2 cadavers that can be turned into 
zombies with the IPS lines of Pr. Kendall or the Zombie 
Serum. The character must stand correctly on the facing 
icon.
Officers’ Quarters
During the Initiative phase, for each character standing 
in this room, the controlling player can spend 1 MP to 
gain 4 CP from the bank and place them behind his 
screen. You cannot use this ability if one or more enemy 
characters are occupying the room with you.
Patient Room
A character standing anywhere in this room can spend 
1 CP and perform a successful Scientific test to gain 
1 Life Point. The character performing this action can 
heal himself or character he is immediately facing. If the 
character is brought back from Wounded to Healthy, his 
new characteristics are immediately applicable.
Robot Assembly Workshop
A character correctly standing on the facing icon gets 
+1 black die when searching in this room. Any character 
standing in the room receives +2 yellow dice on all 
Technical tests.
Satellite Com Room
A character correctly standing on the facing icon can 
spend 2 CP and perform a Technical test. If successful, 
gain a Spy Point you can use any way you want.
Secret Safe Room
A character standing anywhere on one of the 4 squares 
inside the safe gets +2 black dice when searching in 
this room. 
Walls around this room cannot be covered with doors 
during the construction of the map in the S.A.G.S. game 
mode.
Sewers Exit
Once a character has reached this floor tile, he can exit 
the map through the sewers by spending one more MP. 
Remove the figure from the game; it can never return. It 
is considered to have exited the map from its edge, and 
has the same effect.
Torture Chamber
Salemite characters standing in this room receive +2 
black dice when torturing a captured character. This 
bonus is cumulative per character standing and torturing 
in the room.
Video Surveillance Room
A character correctly standing on a facing icon can try to 
switch on the equipment in order to observe the enemy. 
Spend 1 CP and perform a Technical test. If successful, 
take 4 CP from the bank and place them behind your 
screen.
Zombie Lab
The zombie lab initially provides 4 cadavers that can be 
turned into zombies with the IPS lines of Pr. Kendall or 
the Zombie Serum. The character must stand correctly 
on one of the facing icons. Each facing icon gives access 
to 2 different cadavers. The active player chooses which 
one of the 2 cadavers is to be reanimated.
If the electrical power is down in this room, cadavers are 
not accessible and cannot be turned to zombies.