n e w d a w n f o r t h e g a l a x y
rules

credits
Game design
Touko Tahkokallio
Development, graphic design and rule book
Sampo Sikiö >>> samposdesign.com
Game box cover and species illustrations
Ossi Hiekkala >>> archipictor.com
Publisher
© Lautapelit.fi 2011 >>> lautapelit.fi
Game rules and hexes use elements of images created 
by ESA/Hubble and released with their kind permission. 
eclipse typeface is based on Franchise by Derek Weath­
ersbee.
v2
Extra Special Thank You for your help
Antti Autio, Petri Savola, Atte Moilanen, Stefan Engblom
Thank You for playtests and advice
Antti Mentula, Jouni Heinänen, Olli-Pekka Vaija, Eero 
Puurunen, Sally Londesborough, Otto Kataja, Tiina Meri­
koski, Albert Kaikkonen, Matleena Muhonen, Iina Valkei­
senmäki, Teemu Salohalme, Susanna Louhesto, Johanna 
Louhesto, Mikko Karvonen, Reko Nokkanen, Ilari Tahko­
kallio, Anttoni Huhtala, Arto Klami, Veli-Matti Jaakkola, 
Tuomas Lehto, Jani Koistiola, Juha Linnanen, Antti Koski­
nen, Antti Tahvanainen, Mika Lemström, Jussi Kurki, Ossi 
Lehtinen, Paul Laane, Aarne Ekström, Ilkka Salminen, 
Valtteri Arvaja, Tero Särkijärvi, Atte Tamminen, Mikko 
Saari, Ville Saari, Hannu Sinisalo, Sonja Tolvanen, Kalle 
Malmioja, Aleksi Siirtola, Matias Viitasalo, Atro Kajaste, 
Antti Muhonen, Timo Ollikainen, Kimmo Leivo, Aleksi Ah­
tiainen, Oskari Westerholm, Juuso Mattila, Heikki Hyhkö, 
Olli Sandberg, Michael Xuereb, Chris Rudram, Deryk Si­
notte, Gregor MacDougall, Dustin Boggs, Tony Vickery, 
Josh Aitken, Juuso Takalainen, Bjarne Boström, Antti, 
Stefan Wahoff, Sören Paukstadt, Ronny Vorbrodt, Alexis 
D, Paul Grogan, Filip Murmak and everyone else who 
played the game in conventions and game clubs. Also a 
big Thank You to everyone on the BoardGameGeek for 
your interest and support!
new dawn for the galaxy
The galaxy has been a peaceful place for many 
years. After the ruthless Terran–Hegemony War 
(30.027–33.364), much effort has been employed 
by all major spacefaring species to prevent the 
terrifying events from repeating themselves. The 
Galactic Council was formed to enforce precious 
peace and it has taken many courageous efforts 
to prevent the escalation of malicious acts.
Nevertheless, tension and discord are growing 
among the seven major species and in the Coun­
cil itself. Old alliances are shattering and hasty 
diplomatic treaties are made in secrecy. A con­
frontation of the superpowers seems inevitable – 
only the outcome of the galactic conflict remains 
to be seen. Which faction will emerge victorious 
and lead the galaxy under its rule?
The shadows of the great civilizations are about 
to eclipse the galaxy. Lead your people to victory!

game components
player materials In 6 player colors (blue, 
red, green, yellow, black, white), one color 
for each player: 14 plastic spaceship minia­
tures (8 Interceptors, 4 Cruisers, 2 Dread­
noughts), 4 Starbase Tiles, 33 Population 
Cubes, 16 Influence Discs, 3 Ambassador 
hexes 37 Sector hexes: 8 Inner hexes (num­
bered 101–108), 11 Middle hexes (#201–
211), 18 Outer hexes (#301–318); 1 Galactic 
Center hex (#001), 6 Starting Sector hexes 
(#221–232)
boards 6 Player Boards (two-sided), 1 Sup­
ply Board 
tiles 96 Technology Tiles (24 different), 154 
Ship Part Tiles (17 different), 21 Discovery 
Tiles, 22 Colony Ship Tiles, 21 Ancient Ship 
Tiles, 1 Galactic Center Defense System Tile, 32 
Reputation Tiles, 22 Orbital / Monolith Tiles, 2 
Crowded Hex Tiles, 6 Summary Cards, 1 Traitor 
Card, 4 Info Cards
miscellaneous 18 6-sided dice (8 yellow, 
6 orange, 4 red), 18 Storage marker octa­
gons (6 each in orange, pink and brown), 
12 purple Damage Cubes, 1 Starting Player 
Marker, 1 Round Marker, 2 cloth bags (for 
Technology Tiles and Reputation Tiles)
The punch sheets also contain some blank 
tiles (4 Ambassadors, 1 Technology, 1 Dis­
covery, 1 Reputation and 9 round ones). 
These are not needed in the game.
sector hex
Player Board
technology
reputation
orbital / monolith
crowded hex
summary card
info card
traitor card
Ship part
discovery tile
colony Ship tile
ancient Ship tile
gcds tile
Supply Board
galactic center hex
starting sector hex
dreadnought
population
cube
ambassador
influence
disc
idea of the game
A game of Eclipse places you in control of a vast in­
terstellar civilization, competing for success with its 
rivals. 
On each game round you expand your civilization 
by exploring and colonizing new areas, researching 
technologies and building spaceships to wage war 
with. The game ends after 9 rounds, and the player 
with most Victory Points wins. Victory Points are 
gained from controlling galactic sectors, fighting 
battles, forming diplomatic relations, researching 
technologies, making discoveries and controlling 
Monoliths.
There are many poten­tial paths to victory, so you 
need to plan your strategy according to the strengths 
and weaknesses of your species while paying at­
tention to the other civilizations' endeavors!
dice
storage marker
damage cube
round
marker
start player
marker
x8
in six 
player 
colors
x2
x37
x96
x21
x22
x21
x154
x33
x16
x3
x22
x2
x32
x8
x12

[1] Ship Part Tiles [2] Round Marker [3] Supply Board [4] Research track [5] Discovery Tiles 
[6] Ancient Ship Tiles [7] Orbital and Monolith Tiles [8] Damage Cubes [9] Traitor Card
[10] Galactic Center hex [11] Galactic Center Defense System Tile [12] Sector hex stacks
[13] Player Board [14] Player starting hex [15] Ships [16] Ambassador Tiles [17] Influence Discs 
[18] Population Cubes [19] Colony Ships [20] Summary Card [21] Storage Markers [22] Storage Track
[23] Technology Track [24] Reputation Track [25] Interceptor
blue player’s play area
I
II

game setup
Set the Ship Part Tiles [1] and the Round Marker [2] on the Supply 
Board [3]. Put the Technology Tiles in the bag and shuffle them. Draw 
random Technology Tiles (according to the number of players) from 
the bag and set them on their spots [4] on the Research Tracks. Set 
similar tiles on top of each other. Put the Reputation Tiles in another 
bag and shuffle them. Shuffle the Discovery Tiles [5] and set them face 
down on their spot on the Supply Board. Set the Ancient Ship Tiles [6], 
Orbital and Monolith [7] Tiles, Damage Cubes [8] and the Traitor Card 
[9] likewise on the Supply Board.
Set the Galactic Center [10] hex in the middle of the table. Place a Dis­
covery Tile face down on the Galactic Center hex and the Galactic Cen-
ter Defense System Tile [11] on top of it. Place the Sector hex tiles face 
down in three stacks, Inner (I), Middle (II) and Outer (III) sector hexes 
(according to the number of players) in separate stacks [12]. Give the 
Starting Player Marker to the player who has spent the least time on 
planet Terra, in the Sol system.
Beginning from the starting player and moving clockwise, each play­
er chooses a starting hex and the accompanying Player Board [13]. 
He then places his Starting Sector hex [14] in one of the six starting 
spots in the Middle sector area (two hexes away from the Center hex; 
the illustration on left shows a three player setup). Place your hex in 
the starting spot closest to you. Put the rest of the starting hexes and 
boards back in the box – they are not used in the game. 
Each player takes the following and puts them next to his board: 
•	all Ships, Ambassador Tiles, discs and cubes [15, 16, 17, 18] of one 
color
•	3 Colony Ship Tiles [19]
•	a Summary Card, Action Phase overview side up [20]
Each player places on his Player Board:
•	one Influence Disc on each circle of the Influence Track [17]
• one Population Cube on each square of the three Population Tracks 
(Money, Science and Materials) [18]; the rightmost square on each 
track (marked with a lighter background) is left empty.
•	one Storage marker of each color [21] on his Storage Track [22]: 
Money marker at "2", Science marker at "3" and Materials at "3" 
Each player then moves onto his starting hex:
•	one Interceptor Ship miniature [25]
•	one Population Cube on each of the Population Squares (not on the 
Advanced squares, marked with a star), taken from the correspond­
ing Population Track [26]
•	one Influence Disc on the Influence circle, taken from his Influence 
Track [27]
alien species These rules apply for the Terran species and are written 
from their point of view. It is recommended that you play your first 
game using just them, and add the alien species in the next game. They 
mostly follow the same rules, but each has some slight differences, 
such as different starting Resources, number of Ships you may move 
with the Move action, etc. Please refer to pages 26–27 for the differ­
ences of each species.
If you decide to play with the alien species, players choose the species 
they play with. Beginning with the player on the right side of the start­
ing player and moving counterclockwise, each player chooses a spe­
cies and places the starting hex. Note that if you choose Terrans, you 
also effectively choose one alien species out of the game.
tech Tiles
2 players: 12
3 players: 14
4 players: 16
5 players: 18
6 players: 20
outer sectors
2 players: 5
3 players: 10
4 players: 14
5 players: 16
6 players: 18
6 players
4 players
starting layouTS
5 players
3 players
2 players
extra discs?
Note that you have three extra 
discs that are only used if you 
Research the Advanced Robotics 
or Quantum Grid Technologies.

game concepts
population Cubes Your civilization's 
population is represented by the 
small wooden Population Cubes in 
your player color. When your civiliza­
tion expands to a new sector, it may 
be colonized by moving the Popula­
tion Cubes on your Player Board to 
the squares on the sector hex. The 
more cubes you move to the hexes, the more Resources 
(
Money, 
Science, 
Materials) you produce. The left­
most visible square on each Population Track shows how 
many units you will produce in each round (in the picture 
above, 12 Money, 21 Science, 15 Materials). 
resources Your hexes produce three kinds of Re­
sources: Money, Science and Materials.
	
Money is needed for using Influence: controlling 
hexes and taking actions requires that you pay 
Money at the end of the round.
	
Science is needed for Research: researching new 
Technologies requires that you pay Science.
	
Materials are needed for Building: building new 
Ships and Structures requires that you pay Mate­
rials.
The amount of each Resource you have is marked 
with a Storage Marker on the Storage Track. The Stor­
age size is unlimited. 
influence discs Your civili­
zation's influence is repre­
sented by the wooden In-
fluence Discs in your player 
color. Influence Discs are 
used to mark the hexes your 
civilization controls. Also, 
taking an action requires you to move an Influence Disc on 
the corresponding action space. The leftmost visible circle 
on the Influence Track shows how much Money you have 
to pay at the end of the round to keep your civilization func­
tioning (in the picture above, 
 2 Money). Thus, the more 
hexes you control and more actions you take, the more 
Money you need to pay. 
component limitations There is a limited amount of Ships, 
Population Cubes, Influence Discs, Technology Tiles, Dis­
covery Tiles, Reputation Tiles and Ambassador Tiles. If they 
run out, they run out. Ship Part Tiles, Orbital / Monolith 
Tiles and Damage Cubes are unlimited, so in the unlikely 
case they run out, use a substitute.
Technology Researching Technologies gives 
your civilization advantages. Some Tech­
nologies are required for upgrading certain 
parts of your Ships or building new Ships 
and Structures, while others make your civi­
lization more efficient (e.g. increasing your 
production or giving you more Influence Discs). The Tech­
nologies are divided in three categories: Military, Grid and 
Nano Technologies. Researching a Technology in a category 
gives you discount in further research of that category. Re­
searched Technologies are placed on your Player Board.
Ships Ships are used for fight­
ing against other players and the 
non-player Ancients, as well as oc­
casional exploring. There are four 
kinds of Ships:
•	Interceptors; 8 available 
	 for each player
•	Cruisers; 4 available
•	Dreadnoughts; 2 available
•	Starbases; 4 available
Bigger Ships cost more to build but have more space for 
Ship Parts. Starbases are immobile.
ship parts Each kind of Ship has its 
own blueprint on your Player Board. 
Players can customize their Ships 
during the game: the Ship Parts (pre­
printed or gained with the Upgrade 
action) on the blueprint give the Ship 
its abilities. There are several differ­
ent types of parts: 
•	Cannons are used on each com­
bat round to attack enemy Ships. 
Different Cannons make different 
amounts of damage: each star is 
•	Missiles are like Cannons, but used 
only in the beginning of the com­
bat.
•	Hull absorbs damage. Hull’s ability 
to absorb damage is marked with 
stars: each Hull symbol 
 absorbs 
•	Computers make weapons hit 
more easily, and also give more Ini­
tiative.
•	Shields make your Ship more diffi­
cult to hit.
•	Drives make Ships move further 
with one move, and also give the 
Ships more Initiative.
•	Energy Sources produce Energy for 
other Ship Parts.
Some Ship blueprints have extra 
Ship Parts outside the Ship Part grid. 
These work just like the other Ship 
Parts, except that they cannot be re­
placed.
military
grid
nano
Dreadnought
name
EXTRA
ENERGY
SOURCE
initiative
bonus
requires a 
technology
energy
consumption
game concepts

Structures Structures are co­
lossal objects built on your con­
trolled hexes. Orbitals provide 
your population a place to live 
in: each Orbital can hold a single 
Population Cube. Monoliths give you points at the end of 
the game. Structures are permanent objects which stay on 
the hex until the end of the game. 
discovery Tiles Some hexes contain a Discovery Tile which 
is awarded to you when you first take control of the hex 
by placing an Influence Disc there. Each Discovery tile is 
double sided: the face side has a benefit (extra Resources, 
new Technologies, Ancient Ship Parts..) and the back side 
has a 2 Victory Point value. When receiving a tile, you must 
immediately decide which side you use. The Discovery Tile 
benefits are:
3x +8 Money, 3x +5 Science, 
3x +6 Materials: move your 
Storage marker and discard 
the tile.
3x Ancient Technology: you 
may take the cheapest Tech­
nology Tile you don't already 
have from the Supply Board 
and place it on your Player 
Board for free. Discard the 
Discovery Tile.
3x Ancient Cruiser: place one 
of your unused Cruisers in 
the hex and discard the tile.
6x Ancient Ship Part: you 
may place this part in any of 
your Ships (returning an exist­
ing part if needed); you may also keep the part next to your 
board and place it later with the Upgrade action; if you later 
want to replace an Ancient Ship Part, it is discarded.
Discovery Tiles kept as Victory Points are placed next to 
your Player Board back side up until the end of the game.
reputation Tiles You receive Reputation Tiles 
from combat. They are worth Victory Points at the 
end of the game.
ambassador Tiles You can use your Ambas­
sadors to form Diplomatic relations with other 
players. They increase your production and are 
worth Victory Points at the end of the game.
Trade At any time, you may convert 2 units of 
one Resource (Money, Science or Materials) to 
1 unit of any other. 
crowded hex tile In the occasion you cannot fit 
all Ship miniatures in a hex, you may place them 
somewhere else on the table and mark the hex 
with a Crowded Hex Tile.
wormholes Due to the galactic distances, star ships in 
Eclipse may move only using the wormhole network. Also, 
exploring the galaxy is possible only through a wormhole.
hexes The game board is built from hexagonal tiles ("hex­
es") during the game. Each hex represents a sector of star 
systems and may contain a number of colored Population 
Squares which represent star clusters with worlds produc­
ing Resources. 
Each sector (Inner, Middle and Outer) has its own hex stack. 
In the beginning of the game, only the Center hex and 
players' start sectors are placed on the table. The rest are 
placed during the game. The Inner and Middle sectors are 
laid out in concentric circles around the Center hex. Outer 
sectors may branch freely outwards.
Inner sectors are numbered 101–108, Middle sectors 201–
211, Outer sectors 301–318, Starting sectors 221–232 and 
the Galactic Center is 001.
[1] Influence circle [2] Victory Point value [3] Wormhole 
[4] Artifact [5] Population Square / Money [6] Population 
Square / Advanced Money [7] Population Square / Science 
[8] Population Square / Advanced Science [9] Population 
Square / Materials [10] Hex number
ORBITAL
MONOLITH
contents 
of a hex
game board
layout
example at
i Inner sectors 
center
ii middle sectors
iii outer sectors
ii start sectors
Tile back
game goncepts

Starting from the player with the Starting Player Marker 
and moving clockwise, each player may take one action or 
pass. This continues around until all players have passed. 
The first player to pass gets the Starting Player Marker for 
the next round. When taking an action, move the rightmost 
Influence Disc from your Influence Track to your Action 
Track. You may choose an Action you have already taken. 
The more actions you take, the more Upkeep you have to 
pay at the end of the round, so remember to pass in time!
The possible actions are: 
	
∑xplore
	
∏n∫luence 
	
r∑search
	
upgrade
	
bu∏ld
	
move
	
reaction (upgrade, build or move)
Players who have passed may not take any other actions 
than Reactions, which are weaker versions of Build, Up­
grade and Move actions (see Reactions on page 14). When 
passing, flip your Summary Card so that the dark, game 
round overview side is face up. This will help other players 
to see who have already passed.
end of action phase After every player's Summary Card has 
been flipped dark side up, the Action phase ends immedi-
ately. No more Reactions may be taken.
game round
The game round consists of these four phases:
Players take actions clockwise, 
	
one action at a time
combat phase 	 Battles are resolved and 
	
sectors conquered
upkeep phase 	 Civilization Upkeep costs are paid and 
	
Resources produced
cleanup phase	 Players move Influence Discs from the 
	
action spaces back to their Influence Track 
and new Technology Tiles are drawn
example! There is an example of a 
full Action Phase on pages 16–17.
colony Ships At any time during your action, 
you may activate one or more of your face 
up Colony Ships. For each activated Colony Ship, you may 
place one Population Cube to an empty Population Square 
in any hex where you have an Influence Disc. Each Popula­
tion Cube you place must come from the Population Track 
that corresponds to the color of the Population Square on 
the hex. Activated Colony Ships are flipped face down. Us­
ing Colony Ships is the only way to move Population Cubes 
to the hexes and increase your production! In the example 
on the right, Blue activates two Colony Ships and flips them 
face down. He moves two Population Cubes to the hex.
gray squares The gray planets rep­
resent worlds that are suitable for 
any production. The gray Population 
Squares may receive a Population 
Cube from any of the three Population Tracks. If you 
remove a cube from a gray Population Square, you 
may place it to any Population Track (ie. you don't 
have to remember which track it came from).
 
advanced squares Planets with a star 
symbol represent harsher worlds that 
are difficult to colonize. You may only 
place cubes in the squares marked with 
a star if you have researched the related 
Advanced Technology.
orbitals Orbitals are artificial living envi­
ronments that players may build. An Or­
bital may only receive a Population Cube 
from the 
 Money or 
 Science track.

explore
Choose one of the unexplored spaces next to a hex where 
you have a Ship or an Influence Disc and turn a hex tile 
from the corresponding stack (I, II or III) in it. If you Explore 
from a hex with only a Ship, it must not be "pinned" (see 
Move on page 14).
Show the hex tile and choose to either place or discard it. 
If you discard the tile, your turn ends immediately. Discards 
are placed face up. If you decide to place the tile, the fol­
lowing restrictions apply:
•	the hex can be placed only to the spot that you explored
•	the hex must be oriented so that at least one of the 
Wormholes on the hex connects with a Wormhole on 
one of the hexes where you have a disc or a Ship
In the diagram on the left, hexes marked with A and B 
would be legal placements.
Hexes in Inner and Middle sectors are laid in circles around 
the central hex; hexes in Outer sectors may branch out­
wards (see layout example on page 7).
If the hex contains a Discovery symbol, put a Discovery Tile 
on it face down.
If the hex contains Ancient symbols, put that many Ancient 
Ship tiles on it, on top of the Discovery Tile. 
After placing the hex, you may take control of the hex by 
placing an Influence Disc from your Influence Track on the 
hex. If the hex contains a Discovery Tile, you may take it 
when placing the Influence Disc. All Discovery Tiles are dou­
ble sided: the tile back has a 2 VP value, and the face side 
has a bonus (see page 7). Show the face side of the Discov­
ery, and immediately decide which side to use. Tiles that 
are used as Victory Points are placed next to your Player 
Board with the side showing the Victory Point value face 
up. 
Important! Ancient Ships must be destroyed (see Combat 
Phase, page 18) before the Influence Disc may be placed 
and the Discovery Tile taken. If there are Ships of several 
players competing for the same hex, the player who even­
tually gets to place the disc receives the tile. 
The Center hex contains the Galactic Center Defense Sys-
tem, which must be destroyed (see Combat Phase, page 
18) before an Influence Disc may be placed.
After placing the Influence Disc, you may activate your 
Colony Ships to place Population Cubes on the Population 
Squares on the hex.
If the hexes in a stack run out, shuffle the discarded hexes 
of that stack as a new stack. If there are no more hexes, the 
Explore action has no use.
important! Remember that 
you may use your 
Colony Ships at 
any time during 
your turn. 
∑xp
Wormhole Generator
If you have the Wormhole Generator 
Technology, you may place the hex 
so that there is only a half Worm­
hole connecting the placed hex and 
the hex you Explored from. In the 
diagram above, when using the Wormhole Generator, 
placements A, B, C and D would be legal, but E would 
not.
ancient symbol
ancient Ship
discovery symbol
discovery
tile back
E
explore action lets your 
civilization explore the 
uncharted regions of the galaxy.

	 influence
By selecting the Influence action, you may move up to two 
Influence Discs. These moves may be:
•	from your Influence Track, or 
•	from a hex where you have an Influence Disc
	
•	to a hex that does not contain an Influence Disc or an en­
emy Ship and is adjacent to a hex where you have a disc 
or a Ship, or 
•	to a hex where only you have a Ship, or
•	back to your Influence Track.
The hex Influenced has to have a Wormhole connection to 
the hex where you have a disc or a Ship. In the example on 
the right, you could Influence hexes A, B and G.
After placing an Influence Disc, you may activate your 
Colony Ships to place Population Cubes on the Population 
Squares on the hex.
During the Influence action, you may turn two of your used 
Colony Ships face up, even if you choose to move no Influ­
ence Discs.
removing a disc from a hex If you remove an Influence 
Disc from a hex, you must also return all cubes from the 
hex to their respective Population Tracks on your board. If a 
cube is returned from a gray (wild) square, you may choose 
which Track it goes to. Similarly, if a cube is returned from 
an Orbital, you may return it to either the Money or Science 
Track.
important! Remember that 
you may use your 
Colony Ships at 
any time during 
your turn. 
∏n∫
Wormhole Generator
If you have the Wormhole Generator 
Technology, you may Influence 
through a hex edge that has a 
Wormhole on just one side. 
In the example below, Blue could 
Influence hexes A, B, C, D and G, 
but not E or F.
E
f
G
influence action lets your 
civilization conquer vacant 
hexes or withdraw from hexes.

diplomacy
Players can form Diplomatic relations when their hexes 
connect. Diplomacy rules are not used in the two and three 
player games. 
diplomatic relations If one of the hexes where you have 
an Influence Disc gets connected through a Wormhole to 
a hex where another player has a Disc, you and the other 
player may agree on forming Diplomatic relations with each 
other. Diplomatic relations can be formed at any time on any 
of your turns. The connection may happen either by Explore 
or Influence actions, or at the end of the Combat Phase (see 
page 21). There must be a full Wormhole connection, so you 
cannot use the Wormhole Generator Technology to con­
nect through a half Wormhole. You 
may not form Diplomatic relations if 
your Ship is in a hex with an oppos­
ing player's Ship or Influence Disc, or 
vice versa.
If you both agree, give the other 
player one of your Ambassador 
Tiles and place one of your Popula­
tion Cubes on top of it. The cube may 
come from any of the three Population tracks. 
The Tile is placed on one of the free spaces 
on the other player’s Reputation Track. The 
other player also gives you an Ambassador 
Tile and a Population Cube. Place them on 
an empty space on your Reputation Track.
Ambassador Tiles on your Reputation Track 
are worth 1 Victory Point at the end of the 
game. Note that your Reputation Track also 
holds your Reputation Tiles (see Combat on 
page 18). If the board is full when taking an 
Ambassador Tile, you may discard Reputa­
tion Tiles, returning them to the Reputation 
Tile bag.
You may not have more than one Ambassador Tile from 
each player. You may rearrange the tiles on your Reputation 
Track at any time, but you may not discard Ambassador 
Tiles. Note that the Terrans have one space on the track 
that may only hold an Ambassador Tile.
breaking diplomatic relations Your Diplomatic relations 
stay in effect until the end of the game, unless you attack 
one of the players you have Diplomatic relations with, or 
they attack you. Moving your Ships to a hex where the oth-
er player has a disc or a Ship is also considered an attack. 
Both players then return the Ambassador Tiles and cubes 
to the owner. The cube goes back to a Population Track, 
chosen freely by the owner. 
Whenever you attack a player and thus break the Diplomat­
ic relations, you receive the Traitor Card from its previous 
holder. The player holding the Traitor Card may not form 
new Diplomatic relations as long as he has the card. Who-
ever holds the Traitor Card at the end of the game receives 
a –2 VP penalty.
diplomatic relations example
In the example below, Green and Red may form Dip­
lomatic relations with each other. Blue and Red may 
not, since Red's Interceptor is in a hex with Blue's 
Influence Disc. Blue and Green 
may not form Diplomatic rela­
tions either, since their 
Interceptors are in the 
same hex.
May hold either an Ambassador 
or a Reputation Tile
May hold only an Ambassador Tile
May hold only a Reputation Tile
ambassador Tile
diplomatic relations 
increase your production 
and grant Victory Points.

	
research
By taking the Research ac­
tion, you may choose one 
available Technology Tile 
from the Supply Board, pay 
its 
 Science cost (move 
the Storage Marker back­
wards on the Storage Track) 
and put the tile on your 
Player Board on the track of 
its category (Military, Grid 
or Nano). For each Technol­
ogy of that category you 
already have, you get a discount shown on the leftmost ex­
posed space on the Technology Track. 
However, note that for each Technology there is a minimum 
cost you have to pay regardless of the discount you have.
There are three special types of Technologies:
	
Ship Part: gives the ability to Upgrade this Ship Part.
	
	
Build: gives the ability to Build this Ship or Structure.
	
	
Instant: gives a one-time effect when it is Researched. 
Example: You already have Monolith 
and Orbital Technologies and you re­
search Fusion Drive. Your Nano Technol­
ogy discount is –2, but you still have to 
pay 3 Science, since it is the minimum cost 
for Fusion Drive.
	
Military Technologies
Neutron Bombs: If you have the Neutron Bombs 
Technology, you may destroy all the Population 
Cubes from the hex after the combat without rolling 
any dice (see Combat Phase on page 18).
Starbase: You may Build Starbases.
Plasma Cannon: You may Upgrade plasma Cannon Ship 
Phase Shield: You may Upgrade phase shield Ship 
Advanced Mining: You may place Population 
Cubes in the Advanced Materials squares 
with your Colony Ships.
Tachyon Source: You may Upgrade Tachyon Source Ship 
Plasma Missile: You may Upgrade plasma Missile Ship 
Gluon Computer: You may Upgrade gluon computer 
	
grid Technologies
Gauss Shield: You may Upgrade gauss shield Ship Parts.
Improved Hull: You may Upgrade Improved Hull Ship 
Fusion Source: You may Upgrade Fusion Source Ship 
Positron Computer: You may Upgrade positron 
computer Ship Parts.
Advanced 
Economy: 
You 
may 
place 
Population Cubes in the Advanced Money 
squares with your Colony Ships.
Tachyon Drive: You may Upgrade tachyon drive Ship 
Antimatter Cannon: You may Upgrade Antimatter 
Cannon Ship Parts.
Quantum Grid: You receive two additional Influence 
Discs, placed immediately in the leftmost empty 
circles on your Influence Track.
	
nano Technologies
Nanorobots: You may Build one additional Ship or 
Structure (excluding Reaction Builds).
Fusion Drive: You may Upgrade fusion drive Ship Parts.
Advanced Robotics: You receive one additional 
Influence Disc, placed immediately in the leftmost 
empty circle on your Influence Track.
Orbital: You may Build Orbitals.
Advanced Labs: You may place Population 
Cubes in the Advanced Science squares with 
Monolith: You may Build Monoliths.
Artifact Key: You must immediately take 5 Resources 
for each Artifact on your hexes. The Resources can be 
either Money, Science or Materials, in groups of five. 
Wormhole Generator: You may Explore, Influence 
and Move through a hex edge that has a Wormhole 
on just one side.
You may not choose a Technology that you already have. 
The Technologies are kept on your Technology Tracks until 
the end of the game. They may not be discarded.
starting technologies Terrans and some alien species 
have starting Technologies preprinted on their Technology 
Tracks. These are regarded in every way just like the Tech­
nology Tiles acquired through the Research action. They 
may not be covered with other Technology Tiles.
r∑s
cost
type
category
Technology name
MINIMUM cost
research action lets your 
civilization develop new 
Technologies.

Upgrade
When choosing the Upgrade action, you may modify your 
Ships’ blueprints by placing new Ship Parts there. Each of 
your Ships functions according to its blueprint described on 
your Player Board. If you upgrade the Ship's blueprint with 
new Ship Parts, all the Ships already built are considered to 
be instantly upgraded.
With the Upgrade action, return as many Ship Part Tiles 
to the Supply Board as you want. Then take up to two 
tiles from the Supply Board and place them on any of the 
squares on your Ship blueprints. When placing the tiles, 
you may place the tiles on top of any of the printed starting 
Ship Parts on your Ship blueprints, but not on top of other 
Ship Part tiles. 
The following restrictions apply:
•	most Ship Parts (marked with the Technology symbol) re­
quire that you have researched the corresponding Technol­
ogy (see Research on page 12) before they can be taken;
•	the total Energy Consumption of the Ship’s parts may not 
be higher than its total Energy Production; and
•	Interceptors, Cruisers and Dreadnoughts must have a 
Drive, Starbases are not allowed to have a Drive.
Taking and returning Ship Parts costs nothing. 
All values from the Ship Parts are cumulative. For exam­
ple, if the Ship has two Fusion Drives, they will give it Move­
ment Value 4, Initiative 4 and Energy Consumption 4.
build
Build up to two Ships (Interceptors, Cruisers, Dreadnoughts 
and Starbases) or Structures (Orbitals and Monoliths). Pay 
their 
 Material cost (move the Storage Marker back­
wards on the Storage Track) and place them in any of the 
hexes where you have an Influence Disc. 
The following restrictions apply:
•	the amount of Ships is limited to the miniatures and tiles 
you have, ie. 8 Interceptors, 4 Cruisers, 2 Dreadnoughts 
and 4 Starbases
•	each hex may only have one Monolith and Orbital
•	building Starbases, Orbitals and Monoliths require that 
you have the corresponding Technology (see Research on 
page 12)
building costs
Interceptor	
Cruiser	
Dreadnought	 8
Starbase	
Orbital	
Monolith	
upg
bu∏
requires
a tech
name
symbol
initiative
bonus
energy
consumption
upgrade action lets 
your civilization modify 
their Ships.
build action lets your 
civilization build new 
Ships and Structures.
cannons + Missiles: For each 
colored square in your Ship, 
roll the corresponding col­
ored die. The damage a hit 
inflicts is represented by the 
star symbols: each star 
 is 
Computers: Make hitting easi­
er by adding bonuses to your 
die rolls: your combined 
Computer value is added to 
your die rolls to hit.
Shields: target’s combined 
Shield value is subtracted 
from your die roll to hit.
Hull: each Hull symbol 
 
absorbs one point of dam­
age received.
drives: each hex pictured 
increases the Ship’s Move­
ment Value by one. 
energy sources: provide en­
ergy for other Ship Parts. 
ships
structures

	
 move
The Move action allows you to move your Ships. By choos­
ing the Move action, you may do up to three Ship move­
ments. You may use the movements to move the same 
Ship consecutively. With each move, the Ship may move 
as many hexes as its Movement Value allows. Movement 
Value depends on its Drives (each hex pictured increases 
the Ship’s Movement Value by one; in the case of multi­
ple Drives, the Drive values are cumulative; see Upgrade 
on page 13). Starbases are not allowed to have Drives and 
therefore cannot move. 
Note the restriction on Movement! The Ships may only 
move through a hex edge that has a Wormhole on both 
sides. In the example on the right, movement A would be 
legal. 
You may only move to Explored hexes, not to empty space.
If your Ships move into a hex, or out from a hex, containing 
other players’ or Ancient Ships, at least one Ship per each 
opposing Ship must stay (the Ship is said to be "pinned") 
and engage in combat in the Combat Phase (see pages 
18–21). The Ships exceeding the number of opponents may 
move. If you later on move or build more Ships to the hex, 
you may change which Ships are pinned. The original Ships 
may move, as long as one Ship per each opposing Ship stays 
pinned.
The Galactic Center Defense System ("GCDS") engages all 
the Ships in the central hex. The hex cannot be moved 
through before the GCDS is destroyed.
	
reaction
After passing, you may only take a Reaction action when it 
is your turn in the player order. A Reaction is essentially a 
weakened version of a Move, Build or Upgrade action.
Reaction can be either:
	
upgrade: you are allowed to return as many Ship Part 
Tiles to the Supply Board as you want, and then take 
one Ship Part.
	
bu∏ld: you are allowed to build one Ship or Structure.
	
move: you are allowed to move only one Ship once.
A Reaction is taken by placing an Influence Disc on the Reac­
tion Track on your Summary Card. 
The Nanorobots Technology (see Research on page 12) does 
not give you an extra build when taking a Reaction.
mov
Wormhole Generator If you have 
the Wormhole Generator Technology, 
you may move your Ships through 
a hex edge that has a Wormhole on 
just one side. In the example be­
low, movements A, B and C would 
be legal.
movement example
Red’s Interceptor has a Movement Value of 2 hexes 
(two Nuclear Drives combined) and Cruiser has a 
Movement Value of 3. Red has a total of three moves. 
He moves the Interceptor two times and the Cruiser 
one time.
Green’s Interceptors also have a Movement Value 
of 2, and Green has three moves. When moving, his 
first Interceptor is pinned by the Red Interceptor. 
The second one may move through the hex. Finally, 
Green decides not to use his third move.
green
C
move action lets 
your civilization 
move its Ships.
reactions can be 
taken after you 
have passed.

example of a four player game in progress

action phase example
Alastair (Terran), Ken (Planta), Iain (Mechanema) and Ver-
nor (Progress) have already played a few rounds, taking 
control of sectors and developing their civilizations. Alastair 
is the starting player for this Action Phase.
Alastair decides to BUILD. He moves the rightmost disc 
from his Influence Track to the Build space on his Action 
Track [1]. Alastair then builds one Cruiser and one Orbital. 
The cost is 10 Materials, so he moves the Materials marker 
10 spaces backwards on his Storage Track. Alastair was al­
lowed to build the Orbital since he has researched the Or­
bital Technology. He places the Cruiser and the Orbital on 
his hexes [2]. Alastair’s turn is over, and it is Ken’s turn, as 
he sits clockwise next to Alastair.
Ken explores and moves a disc to the corresponding action 
space. He chooses an empty space he wishes to explore 
and then turns the top hex tile from the corresponding 
stack -- in this case, Middle Sectors (II). He decides whether 
to place the hex or discard it, and chooses to place [3]. He 
places the hex so that there is at least one full Wormhole 
connecting the new hex and one of his hexes. There is a 
Discovery symbol on the hex, so he also places a random 
Discovery Tile face down on it. Ken chooses to immediately 
place an Influence Disc on the hex, moving the rightmost 
disc from his Influence Track to the hex [4]. Placing the disc 
allows him to collect the Discovery Tile. He looks at the tile 
and decides to keep it as Victory Points, so he places the 
tile VP side up next to his boards. Ken also decides to colo­
nize the Money and Science squares on the newly placed 
hex. He flips two Colony Ships face down and moves one 
cube from both Money and Science Population Tracks to 
the Population Squares on the hex [4]. Planta has a special 
ability which allows the player to explore two hexes with 
one action. Ken thus Explores another empty area [5], this 
time in Outer Sectors (III). The hex he turns from the stack 
isn’t to his liking, so he discards it, placing it face up next to 
the pile. When the Outer Sectors stack runs out, its discards 
will be shuffled into a new Outer Sectors stack.
It’s now Iain’s turn, and he decides to upgrade his Ships, 
moving a disc to the Upgrade action space. Mechanema’s 
special ability allows him to take three Ship Part Tiles in­
stead of the regular two. He first returns a Electron Com­
puter tile from the Interceptor blueprint on his Player 
Board [6] and then takes an Plasma Missile tile, a Positron 
Computer tile and an Ion Cannon tile. He places the Plasma 
Missile on his Interceptor [7] and the Positron Computer 
and Ion Cannon tiles on his Cruiser [8]. Iain is allowed to 
take Plasma Missile and Positron Computer tiles, since he 
has researched the related Technologies [9].
Vernor researches: he moves a disc to the Research action 
space and chooses Fusion Drive from the Supply Board. He 
already has four Nano Technologies, which would grant him 
a discount of 4, but the minimum price for Fusion Drive is 3. 
He pays the Science cost, moving the marker 3 spaces back­
wards, and places the Fusion Drive Technology Tile on his 
Player Board [10]. Progress’s special ability allows them to 
Research two Technologies with one action. Vernor decides 
to also research the Wormhole Generator. The discount is 
now 6, so the Science cost is 10. He pays the the cost and 
places the Technology Tile on his Player Board [11].
This example uses some alien species. Their special 
abilities are presented in more detail on pages 26–27.
II

It is Alastair’s turn again. He explores in Outer Sectors and 
turns a hex with two Ancient symbols. After placing the 
hex, he places a random Discovery Tile face down on the 
hex and two Ancient Ship Tiles on top of it [12]. An influ­
ence disc may not be placed in the hex before the Ancient 
Ships are destroyed. 
Ken explores again. This time he goes for the Outer Sectors 
and decides to place the two hexes on the board [13]. He 
flips his remaining two Colony Ships face down and places 
a cube from the Money track and a cube from the Materials 
track on the first hex. He is allowed to place a cube on the 
the Advanced Mining square [14], since he has researched 
the Advanced Mining Technology [15]. The remaining 
Population Squares on the hexes remain empty, since he 
has no more Colony Ships available. Ken now also has a di­
rect Wormhole connection from one of his hexes to one of 
Alastair’s hexes [16]. He is thus able to propose Diplomatic 
Relations to Alastair. Alastair agrees, so they both give each 
other one of their Ambassador Tiles, along with one freely 
chosen Population Cube. The tiles are placed on their Di­
plomacy Tracks. Alastair’s track is already full of Reputation 
Tiles, so he removes one of them [17] and puts it back to 
the bag.
Iain passes, turning his Summary Card over, showing the 
darker game overview side up [18]. Since he is the first play­
er to pass on this round, he gets the starting player marker 
and will be the first to act in the Action Phase on the next 
round.
Vernor chooses move and sets out to attack his neighbor 
Iain. He moves his two Interceptors to one of Iain's hexes 
and containing three Interceptors [19]. Vernor’s Ships are 
allowed to move through a half Wormhole, since he has the 
Wormhole Generator Technology. Vernor and Iain had ear­
lier established Diplomatic Relations, now broken by Ver­
nor’s attack. Both return the Ambassador Tile to the owner. 
The cube on the tile is placed on any of the owner’s Popula­
tion tracks. Vernor also takes the Traitor Card. No-one may 
establish Diplomatic Relations with him as long as he holds 
it. Also, if he retains the card until the end of the game, he 
will be given a –2 Victory Point penalty. 
It is Alastair's turn. He passes and flips his Summary Card 
over.
Ken chooses influence. He is allowed to move two Influ­
ence Discs, and he decides to take back the discs from the 
two "empty" hexes (the hexes without Population Squares 
have little use besides their VP value). One disc [20] goes 
to the uncontrolled hex with two Population Squares and 
the other [21] back to his Influence Track. After this, he flips 
two Colony Ships face up. He immediately uses the Ships 
again, flipping them face down and placing two Population 
Cubes to his hexes [22].
Iain, having passed, may only do a reaction. He decides 
that the three Interceptors in the hex are not enough 
against Vernor’s attack, so he chooses move (placing the In­
fluence Disc on the Action track on his Summary Card [23]) 
and moves one Cruiser to the contested hex [24]. Reaction 
only allows one Move, so his turn is now over.
Vernor chooses move and moves one more Interceptor and 
one Cruiser to the contested hex [25]. The Cruiser moves 
two hexes, allowed by its Fusion Drives. 
Alastair doesn’t feel the need to React and passes. Ken also 
passes, and so do Iain and Vernor. As all players' Summary 
Cards are now dark side up, the Action Phase ends imme­
diately and Combat Phase begins. There is one battle to be 
resolved, between Iain and Vernor. (See combat example 
on pages 22–23.)

In the Combat Phase, battles are resolved. A battle will take 
place if a hex is occupied by more than one party (a party 
being either a player, the Ancients or the GCDS). If there is 
a battle in more than one hex, the battles are resolved in 
descending numerical order of the hexes (printed on one 
corner of each hex). The Center hex has the lowest number 
and will thus always be resolved last.
If a hex contains more than two parties, battles are first 
resolved among the players' Ships with the sole surviving 
player then engaging the Ancients or the GCDS in battle. 
If the hex contains more than two players' Ships, battles be­
tween players are resolved two players at a time, in reverse 
order of entry into the hex. 
Therefore, the two players who last entered the hex will 
battle each other first and the surviving player will then 
battle the player who entered before the two. The survivor 
of that battle will fight the next player in reverse order of 
entry and so forth. The last surviving player will battle the 
Ancients, if any.
In the example on the right, the Red player is already in 
the hex. Green moves there first, and then Blue. Green and 
Blue will battle first, and Red will then battle the survivor.
If the hex already has an Influence Disc and is thus con­
trolled by a player, that player is always considered the de­
fender and will fight last regardless of the entry order, even 
if his Ships actually moved there last.
main concept Each Ship type (Interceptor, Cruiser...) of 
each player are activated in Initiative order. The Ship type 
with the highest Initiative goes first. All Initiative ties are 
resolved in the defender’s favor. The defender is always 
the player who has an Influence Disc on the hex. In the case 
of a hex with no disc, or a hex with more than two players, 
the defender is the player who moved there first. 
In the example on the right, the Red Interceptor's Initiative 
is 6: 2 for the Ship's default Initiative, +2 for the Computer 
and +2 for the Drive. The Blue Dreadnought's Initiative is 
3: 0 for the Ship's default Initiative +1 +1 +1 for the three 
Drives.
You simultaneously roll dice for all your Ships of one type. 
Which dice are rolled is determined by the number of Ships 
and by the weapons they carry: for each die symbol in your 
Ship’s blueprint, you are allowed to roll one die of the cor­
responding color. The dice of different colors allow you to 
roll for all the weapons in your Ships of the same type si­
multaneously. After rolling, you choose which enemy Ship 
you assign each die to (see combat example on pages 22–
23). Several dice may be assigned to the same target.
In the example on the right (using the ship blueprints 
above), the Red player would roll three yellow dice, one for 
the Ion Cannon on each of his Interceptors. Blue would roll 
two yellow dice and two orange dice.
blue

hit
miss
hit
>6
hitting Rolling a 6 is always a hit and rolling an 1 is always 
a miss, regardless of any bonuses the Ships may have. For 
other die results, add the value of your Computers to the 
die roll and subtract the value of the target’s Shields. If you 
end up with a value equal or greater to 6, the die is a hit.
damage Different weapons do a different amount of dam­
age when they hit. Ion Cannon (yellow die) inflicts 1 dam­
age, Plasma Cannon and Plasma Missile (orange die) 2 
damage and Antimatter Cannon (red die) 4 damage. The 
amount of damage a weapon inflicts is presented by star 
symbols on the weapon tile.
By default, one point of damage will destroy a Ship. Each 
 Hull symbol on Ship Parts will absorb one point of dam­
age. So, if a Ship has two Improved Hull parts, it will be 
destroyed by the fifth point of damage. Damage from one 
die (eg. Plasma or Antimatter Cannons) may not be split to 
several targets.
If a Ship sustains damage but is not destroyed, mark the 
damage by placing Damage Cubes next to the Ship.
ancient Ships Each Ancient Ship has:
2 x Ion Cannon
Electron Computer
Hull 
Initiative 2
galactic center defense system The GCDS has:
4 x Ion Cannon
Electron Computer
7 x Hull
Initiative 0
fighting the ancients and the gcds One of the other play­
ers rolls the dice for the Ancients and the GCDS. If possible, 
the dice are assigned so that your Ship(s) are destroyed, the 
largest possible first. If no Ships can be destroyed, the dice 
should be assigned to inflict as much damage to your Ships 
as possible, the largest possible first.
In the example on the left, the Ancients rolled 5 and 6, 
which means two hits. The Interceptor is the only one that 
can be destroyed, so one of the dice is assigned to it. The 
other one is assigned to the largest possible one, in this 
case the Dreadnought.
+3
-1

course of battle
Every battle begins with Ships firing their Missiles (if any) 
once and continues with repeated Engagement rounds un­
til only one of the sides remains in the hex.
missiles All Ship types of each player equipped 
with Missiles fire their Missiles in Initiative or­
der. You roll two orange dice for each Plasma 
Missile Ship Part.
Engagement round Each Ship type of each player is acti­
vated in Initiative order. Each of your Ship types may on its 
turn decide to either attack or retreat. 
The Engagement round is repeated until one of the sides 
has been completely removed from the hex. Then the play­
ers return the destroyed Ships to their owners.
retreat When you decide to retreat your Ships, move 
them to the edge of a neighboring hex to show that they 
are retreating. The hex to which you retreat must contain 
your Influence Disc and must not contain enemy Ships. 
The normal Wormhole movement rules must be followed 
(see the example on the right). If you have the Wormhole 
Generator Technology, you may retreat through a hex edge 
that has a Wormhole on just one side.
While the ships are on the edge of the hex, they are retreat­
ing and can still be shot at. The next time it is the retreating 
Ships' turn, all of them must move to the neighboring hex. 
They have now fully retreated and can no longer be shot at.
stalemate If a battle ends in a situation where it's not possi­
ble for either player to destroy the other (this may only hap­
pen when none of the Ships in a battle are armed with a can­
non), the attacker may retreat (following the requirements 
for the hex he is retreating to). If not, his Ships are destroyed. 
attacking population After all battles have 
been resolved, the remaining Ships may at­
tack the population in the hex. Each Ship may 
attack once with all of its Cannons (Missiles 
may not be used), using the normal rules to 
hit. Population is considered not to have any shields. Each 
point of damage destroys one Population Cube of your 
choosing. If you have the Neutron Bombs Technology, you 
may destroy all the Population Cubes from the hex without 
rolling any dice.
Destroyed cubes are returned to the de­
feated player’s Graveyards of the corre­
sponding color. The cubes are returned to 
their respective Population Tracks in Cleanup Phase (see 
page 24). If a cube is destroyed from a gray (wild) square, 
the owner may choose which Graveyard it goes to. Simi­
larly, if a cube is returned from an Orbital, you may return 
it to either the Money or Science Track. Destroying Popula­
tion Cubes does not grant Reputation Tiles (see next page).
orbitals and monoliths Orbitals and Monoliths may not 
be attacked, nor are they ever removed from the hex. The 
population on the Orbital must be destroyed the same way 
as the other Population Cubes.
retreat example The Green Interceptor decides to 
retreat from hex A. It may retreat to hex B (only his 
own disc) but not to C (only his own Ship), D (empty) 
or E (contains an enemy Ship). Red cannot retreat 
anywhere.
attacking population example The Red Intercep­
tors attack Blue's population once with their Ion 
Cannons, rolling three yellow dice. Two dice hit (6 is 
always a hit, and 3+3=6), but the third one misses. 
Red removes two of Blue's cubes, but since at least 
one of the cubes stays on the hex, so does the Influ­
ence Disc.
e

reputation Tiles After all battles in a hex have been re­
solved, each involved player draws Reputation Tiles from 
the bag as follows:
•	1 tile for taking part in one or more battles
•	1 tile for each opposing Interceptor, Starbase 
and Ancient Ship destroyed
•	2 tiles for each opposing Cruiser destroyed
•	3 tiles for each opposing Dreadnought 
destroyed
•	3 tiles for the Galactic Center Defense 
System destroyed
You may not draw more than five tiles. Choose 
one of the tiles and place it face down on your 
Reputation Track. Put the rest of the tiles back 
in the bag. If the track is full, you may return 
any of your Reputation Tiles (including the one 
you just drew or one from the track) in the 
bag. The tiles are drawn in the order the play­
ers entered the hex, so that the player who 
first entered the hex will draw all his tiles first.
retreat penalty If all of your remaining Ships retreat from 
the hex, you get no Reputation Tiles for taking part in the 
battle, but you still get tiles from destroyed enemy Ships.
influencing hexes At the end of the Combat Phase, if you 
have at least one Ship in a hex that has no population, re­
move the previous controller’s Influence Disc (returning 
it to his Influence Track). After this, you may place your 
own Influence Disc there. Also, if at the end of the Combat 
Phase your Ship is in a hex without an Influence Disc, you 
may place a disc there.
repair damage At the end of the Combat Phase, all the 
Damage Cubes are removed from the Ships.
player elimination In the unlikely event that you lose all 
of your Influence Discs and Ships from the game board, you 
may no longer place Influence Discs on hexes. You may con­
tinue to produce Resources each round (note that you will
have some production even if you do not have any Popula­
tion Cubes on the board) and take Research actions, which 
may still grant a few Victory Points. It is very unlikely that 
your score will be high, as just the hexes will often grant 
you over 10 Victory Points. You may also give up the game, 
counting your score and returning all your game compo­
nents to the game box.
reputation tile distribution
reputation tiles
battle
dreadnought
ancient
gcds
max
x9
x7
x12

combat example
Iain and Vernor are engaged in battle. Iain is the defender. 
The combat begins with the plasma Missiles.
 
Iain will roll two orange dice for the Plasma Missiles in 
each Interceptor, hitting with a roll of 6. 
Vernor will roll two orange dice for the Plasma Missiles in 
each Interceptor, hitting with a 6, and two orange dice for 
the Plasma Missiles in the Cruiser, hitting with a 6. 
The Initiative order is:
•	Vernor's Interceptors
	 Initiative 4 (Ship default 2 + Fusion Drive 2 = 4)
•	Iain’s Interceptors
	 Initiative 3 (Ship default 2 + Nuclear Drive 1 = 3; defend­
er first)
•	Vernor’s Cruiser
	 Initiative 3 (Ship default 1 + Fusion Drive 2 = 3)
[1]: Vernor rolls 6, 6, 5, 4, 3 and 2 for the Plasma Missiles 
in his Interceptors. He decides to assign the 6's to Iain’s 
two Interceptors. The rest of the rolls are misses. Iain’s 
Interceptors both receive two points of damage from the 
Plasma Missile and are destroyed. Vernor takes the Ships 
and puts them next to his Player Board. 
[2]: Iain rolls 6 and 6 for the Plasma Missiles in his remain­
ing Interceptor. He assigns one 6 to one of the Intercep­
tors and the other 6 to the Cruiser. Vernor’s Interceptor 
receives two points of damage and is destroyed. Iain 
takes the Ship and puts it next to his Player Board. Ver­
nor’s Cruiser receives two points of damage, which is not 
enough to destroy it. Vernor places two damage markers 
next to the Cruiser.
[3]: Vernor then rolls 3 and 2 for the Plasma Missiles in his 
Cruiser, which result in misses. 
The battle continues with engagement rounds.
Iain now has one Interceptor and one Cruiser left. Vernor 
has two Interceptors and one Cruiser. 
In the combat, Iain's Interceptor attacks with one yellow 
die that hits either type of Vernor’s Ships with a roll of 
6. Iain’s Cruiser attacks with two yellow dice, hitting Ver­
nor’s Interceptors (which have no shields) with a roll of 4 
or higher, and Vernor’s Cruiser with a roll of 5 or higher 
(Gauss Shield substracts 1 from each die assigned to it). 
Vernor will roll one yellow die for the Ion Cannon in each 
Interceptor, hitting either of Iain’s Ships with a roll of 6, 
and one orange die for the Plasma Cannon in the Cruiser, 
hitting either Ship with a roll of 6.
iain
vernor

The Initiative order is:
•	Vernor's Interceptors
	 Initiative 4 (Ship default 2 + Fusion Drive 2 = 4)
•	Iain's Interceptor
	 Initiative 3 (Ship default 2 + Nuclear Drive 1 = 3; defender 
first)
•	Iain's Cruiser
	 Initiative 3 (Ship default 1 + Nuclear Drive 1 + Positron 
Computer 1 = 3; defender first)
•	Vernor's Cruiser
	 Initiative 3 (Ship default 1 + Fusion Drive 2 = 3)
[4]: Vernor decides to retreat the Interceptors, moving 
them between the current hex and the hex he wants to re­
treat to.
[5]: Iain attacks with his Interceptor and rolls for the Ion 
Cannon: 3, a miss.
[6]: Iain attacks with his Cruiser and rolls for the Ion Can­
nons: 4 and 2. He assigns the 4 to one of the retreating In­
terceptors, destroying it. He places the destroyed Ship next 
to his Player Board. The roll of 2 is a miss.
[7]: Vernor attacks with his Cruiser and rolls for the Plasma 
Cannon: 6, which he assigns to one of the Interceptors. It is 
destroyed and Vernor puts it next to his Player Board.
The first Engagement round ends and next begins.
[8]: Vernor’s remaining Interceptor retreats, moving to the 
neighbouring hex. Iain attacks with his Cruiser and rolls for 
the Ion Cannons: 1 and 2, misses.
[9]: Vernor attacks with his Cruiser and rolls a 6. He assigns 
it to the Cruiser, which receives two points of damage and 
is destroyed. Vernor places the destroyed Ship next to his 
Player Board.
[10]:The battle ends, as Iain's final Ship is destroyed. As 
there are no more enemy Ships in the hex, Vernor may 
now attack Iain's Population Cubes. He rolls a 6 for the Ion 
Cannon in his Cruiser, destroying Iain's Money Population 
Cube. The cube goes to Iain's Graveyard. As this was Iain's 
last cube on the hex, he also has to remove his Influence 
Disc, returning it to his Influence Track. Vernor may now 
place his own Influence Disc in the hex and does so. He also 
removes the Damage Cubes from his Cruiser.
Players return the destroyed Ships to each other and draw 
Reputation Tiles. Iain draws a total of three tiles: one tile for 
the battle, and two tiles for the two destroyed Interceptors. 
He looks at them and keeps the highest one, returning the 
rest to the bag. Vernor then draws five tiles: one tile for the 
battle, two tiles for the two destroyed Interceptors and two 
tiles for the destroyed Cruiser. Note that he only draws five 
tiles, even though he destroyed three Interceptors, as the 
maximum amount you may draw is five. He looks at the 
tiles and keeps the highest one, returning the rest to the 
bag.
All battles have been resolved, so Combat Phase ends and 
Upkeep Phase begins.

Colony Ships First, you may activate one or 
more of your remaining Colony Ships (see Colo-
ny Ships on page 8) and move Population Cubes 
to hexes. Contrary to the Action Phase, you may not move 
cubes to hexes containing enemy Ships.
Civilization Upkeep Collect your Income and pay your Civi­
lization Upkeep cost. This is done by comparing your posi­
tive Money Income (the highest exposed number on your 
Money Population Track) with your Influence Cost for that 
turn (the highest exposed number on your Influence Track). 
The adjust your Money Storage marker on the Storage 
Track by this net amount (upwards by any excess Income 
and downwards by any deficit).
bankruptcy? The Money Storage Marker may not move 
below zero; if that would happen, you must trade other Re­
sources (Science and Materials) for Money, or give up con-
trol of some of your sectors by removing Influence Discs 
from the hexes and returning them on your Influence Track 
until the Influence Cost is small enough. All Population 
Cubes from these hexes are moved to their respective Pop­
ulation tracks on your Player Board. Cubes from gray (wild) 
squares may go on any track, and cubes from Orbitals may 
go to either the Money or Science track. Note that if you 
have to return Money cubes from the hex, they return to 
the Money Population track, reducing the Income as well.
In the unlikely event that you do not have enough Influence 
Discs to remove, your civilization has collapsed and your 
game ends here. Count your score and return all your game 
components to the game box.
In the example on the right, the Blue player's Income is 4 
and Upkeep is –5. As the sum of these is 4–5 = –1, he must 
pay 1 Money from his Storage. If he doesn't have Money in 
the Storage, he must either trade other resources to Mon­
ey or return one Influence Disc from his hexes to the Influ­
ence Track. Returning a disc would bring the Upkeep to –3, 
which would bring the sum to 4–3=1. He would then add 1 
Money to his Storage.
science and materials production After paying the Civi­
lization Upkeep cost, collect the Science and Materials 
Production and move the Storage Markers on the Storage 
Track accordingly. In the example on the right, Blue would 
collect 6 Science and 3 Materials.
Draw new Technology Tiles (according to the number of 
players) from the bag and place them on their respective 
places on the Supply Board.
Each player moves all the Influence Discs from his Action 
Track back to his Influence Track and all cubes (if any) from the 
Graveyards to the respective Population Tracks. If a Popula­
tion Track is full, the cube must be moved to an another track.
Then each player flips all his Colony Ships face up and the 
Summary Card the Action overview side up. Move the 
Round Marker one step forward. A new round begins with 
the Action Phase.
Trade At any time, you 
may convert 2 units of 
one Resource (Money, Science or 
Materials) to 1 unit of any other. 
Note that only Terrans have a 2:1 
Trade rate. The rate depends on 
the species you play.
new tech Tiles
2 players: 4
3 players: 6
4 players: 7
5 players: 8
6 players: 9

The game ends after the 9th round. The player with the 
most Victory Points is the winner. 
Victory Points are gained from:
•	Reputation Tiles (1–4 VP per tile)
•	Ambassador Tiles (1 VP per tile)
•	Hexes with an Influence Disc (1–4 VP per hex)
•	Discovery Tiles (2 VP per tile that was kept VP side up)
•	Monoliths on own hexes (3 VP per Monolith)
•	Progress on the Technology Tracks: 
	 4 Technology Tiles on a track = 1 VP, 
	 5 tiles = 2 VP, 6 tiles = 3 VP, 7 tiles = 5 VP
•	Traitor Card (–2 VP!)
•	Species bonuses
In case of a tie, the total amount of Resources (Money, 
Science and Materials) in each tied player’s Storage is the 
tie breaker.
two player game
The two player game is strategically slightly different from 
the multiplayer game. Players should also be advised that 
the Descendants and Planta benefit from their species-spe­
cific fast expansion capabilities and are thus stronger than 
other species in a two-player setting. It is recommended 
not to use these species in a two player game.
two players

alien species
Epsilon Eridani, the capital system of 
the Empire in its heyday, was a sight 
yet unrivalled: whole moons – some 
records claim even planets – were 
shaped to celebrate the might and 
wisdom of the Forever Emperor. 
Their wealth was beyond anything 
ever documented. Yet, after surviv-
ing through what they call the Silent 
Era, the Empire has been reduced to 
rubble. The resources of the capital 
system have been depleted and most 
of their power disintegrated, yet the 
Heirs have not given up hope. The 
new dawn may rise in the uncharted 
systems.
Never satisfied, never complete – the 
Progress are ever striving further. The 
Hydrans have long since embraced 
technology as their main interest, 
constantly evolving and augmenting 
their society and even themselves 
with new inventions. The speed of 
their technological progress is unpar-
alleled among the Seven. Although 
very difficult to access by the layman, 
the universities and laboratories of 
Beta Hydri are held in very high es-
teem by the scientists species-wide. 
Even though they are by far the most 
different species of the Seven, the 
Planta have long been a steady Coun-
cil member. Being a moss-like species 
with a distributed sentience, their 
intentions are sometimes difficult to 
decipher. After overgrowing most of 
the planets and moons in the Cygnus 
system, they seem to be content in 
just expanding their lush growth in 
new systems, fully co-operating with 
the other species, who mostly regard 
them as harmless companions. The 
Planta are phenomenal navigators, 
which makes them very respected in 
interspecies trading vessels.
Excerpts from the Archive of History, Library of the Galactic Center
Draws two random Reputation 
Tiles in the beginning of the game
Two Influence Discs less (leave two right­
most Influence Track circles empty)
Initial Technologies: Gauss Shield, Fusion 
Drive, Plasma Cannon
Initial Technologies: Advanced Labs
Initial Technologies: Starbase
During game setup, also place a Population 
Cube in the Advanced Science Population 
Square on the Starting System
With the Research action may 
buy two Technologies
With the Explore action may explore 
two hexes, one after another
1 extra VP for each controlled 
hex at the end of the game
difference from terrans
Population Cubes are automatically 
destroyed by an enemy Ship at the 
end of the Combat Phase
Four Colony Ships
eridani empire
hydran progress
planta

species' abilities The species' abili­
ties are marked on the Player Boards 
with the symbols below.
The Descendants are rumoured to be 
directly related to the Ancients. While 
there is no concrete proof on this, the 
statistics show that the survival ratio in 
the Descendant-Ancient contact is sig-
nificantly higher for the Descendants 
than the other Seven. Hailing from the 
Draco system, the Descendants are a 
somewhat elusive species. While they 
are a fully recognized member of the 
Galactic Council, their Ambassadors 
still often cause discomfort among the 
other species.
After a long and difficult process, 
the Mechanema have only recently 
been accepted as a full member of 
the Council. Although they have been 
proven sentient in every legal way 
defined by the other Seven, and the 
Auriga system has been assigned as 
their sovereignty by the Council, there 
are still occasional disputes on the 
matter. The birth of the species dates 
back in the early days of the Galactic 
Center, when the artificial intelligenc-
es of various species were allowed to 
integrate. The Mechanema are quite 
respected for their technological ad-
vancements – in fact, the basic Ship 
types now commonly used among the 
spacefaring races were originally de-
signed by them.
The Hegemony originally hails from 
the Orion system, but their fleets are 
known to have actively patrolled the 
general volume since the early times. 
The tragedy that fell upon the Terran 
Federation Dreadnought "Juri Gaga-
rin" and its accompanying fleet may 
well have been due to a grave mis-
understanding in interspecies com-
munication – plausible enough in a 
mutual First Contact. The long war 
that followed and their seemingly 
overwhelming military power gave 
the Hegemony their commonly used 
name. After the peace was established 
and the interspecies collaboration 
took its first steps with the creation of 
the original Galactic Center, the Hege-
mony has now been recognized as a 
benevolent species, and their past as 
a ruthlessly efficient war machine has 
been reduced to a historical side note.
Initial Technologies: Positron Computer
Cheaper Building costs
Initial Technologies: Neutron Bombs, Gauss 
Shield
May have Ships in hexes contain­
ing Ancients, but may not battle 
the Ancients; may place Influence 
Discs in those hexes; may not 
collect Discovery Tiles from hexes 
containing Ancients.
Starts with a Cruiser instead of an 
Interceptor
With the Upgrade action, may 
take up to 3 Ship Part Tiles from 
the Supply Board
With the Build action, may build 
up to three Ships or Structures
With the Explore action may 
turn 2 hexes and choose one, or 
discard both
1 VP per Ancient Ship left on 
the game board at the end of 
the game
difference from terrans
Trade rate 4 : 1
descendants of draco
mechanema
orion hegemony

The Directorate governs the Procyon sector with 
a strong hand. A seat in the Inner Circle is only 
given to the very best, carefully chosen (and 
rumouredly even genetically programmed) to 
continue the line of the Directors. While there 
may be power struggles behind the scenes, the 
Directorate is determined to lead the rather 
well-off civilization toward a great future.
Terran Federation consists of numerous state 
systems with relatively similar ideals and histo-
ries. The Altair system is considered to be the 
most important of them, and it houses the Fed-
eral Parliament. The state systems enjoy quite a 
lot of freedom in their government, but in time 
of need they work efficiently together to protect 
the Federation.
Although the species is still known as the Terrans, its different factions have long 
since left their home system and now call new, distant systems their home. After 
the wormhole drive technology was discovered, the six main factions set out to 
colonize the nearby systems, leaving the ruined and dying home planet behind. 
The Terrans have proven to be a surprisingly adaptable and versatile species. After 
surviving the near-disastrous First Contact and the subsequent war with the spe-
cies they named the Hegemony, they have made rather steady development and 
are now more or less unanimously regarded as a reliable member of the Galactic 
Council. The main drawback of the Terran society, and probably the reason pro-
hibiting them to rise to true greatness, is their inherent need to squabble and form 
miniature factions amongst themselves. 
After the long diaspora, the Terran Union set-
tled in the Eta Cassiopeiae system. Despite oc-
casional internal struggles, the Union has stood 
tall during hard times, often through strong dip-
lomatic efforts and by staying carefully neutral. 
This may soon change, however, as the home 
system will not be able to provide for the whole 
civilization..
After having set their home in the Sirius system 
and doing their part in the Hegemony war, the 
people of the Terran Republic have built a dem-
ocratically ruled society, enjoying a relatively 
stable and prosperous life. 
terran factions
terran directorate
terran federation
terran union
terran republic

Unlike the other Terran factions, the Conglomer-
ate was originally fully backed by corporations 
eager to invest in the deep space colonies. This 
is still reflected in the society all the way from 
the Board, the highest governmental body of 
the Conglomerate, to the most mundane details 
of life in the Tau Ceti system. The Conglomer-
ate is a financial powerhouse and one of the key 
players in the Galactic Center business.
There are no reliable documents regarding the seclusion of the 
Ancients. Most theories are based on the relics found in the 
systems believed to have been colonized by them. Some of the 
discoveries possess qualities previously unknown in the Galac-
tic Library, but there is no solid theory on who or what the An-
cients were, nor where they disappeared. Interestingly enough, 
folk tales of several different species allude to a similar, old 
evil. Recent messages from various sectors report of multiple 
contacts with something described as "Ships unlike any known 
design, with an unsettling feeling of Something hovering out-
side your field of vision" (Interceptor "Delirium of Disorder", 
Lambda Serpentis system, 43.393)
Established at the end of the Terran–Hegemony War (30.027– 
33.364), the awkwardly named Galactic Center has since be-
come the contact hub of known spacefaring species. Evolved 
around the diplomatic Ships that negotiated the peace (Terran 
Interceptor "Shelter from the Storm" and Hegemony Dread-
nought "Viewpoint Adjustment"), the conglomerate of Ships 
and habitats is now the home for billions of entities, housing 
both the Galactic Council and the Library of the Galactic Center. 
The Council has representatives from the major species known 
colloquially as the Seven. While the Galactic Center acknowl-
edges all the lesser spacefaring species as equals, only the 
Seven have a formal position in the Council. The minor species 
do occasionally play their part in the Council power struggles.
Even in times of fledgling peace, when alliances shatter and 
hasty diplomatic treaties are made, the Galactic Center is con-
sidered a demilitarized zone and protected by heavy defenses. 
The Alliance was a major force in the Terran-Hege-
mony War, after the already dissolving faction unit-
ed against the common enemy. After the decisive 
victory in the Battle of Delta Pavonis (33.142) and 
driving the Hegemony fleet out of the sector, the Al-
liance made Delta Pavonis their home system. They 
have come a long way since then, but the old trea-
ties are still in effect and the Alliance holds strong.
terran conglomerate
ancients
galactic center
terran alliance

frequently asked questions
Q: Where can I get more Resources?
A: Place Influence Discs on sector hexes and use Colony 
Ships to move your Population Cubes on the Population 
Squares. Research the Advanced Technologies to be able to 
use the Advanced Population Squares. Build Orbitals to get 
more Population Squares. Collect Discovery Tiles.
Q: What do I need Money for?
A: You need Money to pay for the Upkeep of your civiliza­
tion. The more actions you take and more sectors you con­
trol, the more you have to pay each round.
Q: That's all?
A: Yes. Well, you can also trade Money for other Resources, 
and vice versa.
Q: I don't have enough Influence Discs to do everything I 
want to. What now?
A: You can use the Influence action to return up to two discs 
from the sector hexes to your Influence Track. You can also 
research Advanced Robotics and Quantum Grid Technolo­
gies, which give you more discs. Finally, you often can delib­
erately bankrupt your civilization, by using more discs than 
you can pay for in the Upkeep Phase, and thus be required 
to return some of the discs from the sectors to your Influ­
ence Track.
Q: The best Technologies are terribly expensive. How can 
I ever afford them?
A: Having Technologies of the same category increases the 
discount you get when buying more. If you buy the Tech­
nologies in increasing price order, you get the maximum 
benefit of the discounts.
Q: What is the benefit of being the first player? 
A: You get the first pick on the researching Technologies 
and exploring empty areas. You also often get to be the first 
player in a contested hex, giving you the edge on Initiative 
ties.
Q: What happens if I cannot return a Population cube to 
a track because it is full? This might occur if I return cubes 
from gray squares to different tracks than where they 
originally came from.
A: The track may be filled completely, so that no number is 
visible. This means that you do not have any production of 
that Resource. If a track is full and you still need to return 
cubes to it, the cubes must go to any other track(s).
Q: What happens if the extra Influence Discs acquired 
through the Advanced Robotics and Quantum Grid Tech-
nologies do not fit on the Influence Track?
A: Stack the extra discs on top of the disc on the rightmost 
space of the Influence Track. You may use these extra discs 
normally. 
Q: Using the Influence action, I can move an Influence Disc 
from a hex to its neighbor through a Wormhole connec-
tion. May I move the Disc that created this connection in 
the first place?
A: No. If you move the disc, there is no longer a connection.
Q: During Upkeep Phase, when may I remove Influence 
Discs from my hexes?
A: Only when you do not have enough Money (produced in 
this Upkeep, plus your Storage) to pay for the Upkeep. Then 
you may remove Discs until the Upkeep cost is low enough. 
Note that if you remove a disc from a hex, the Population 
cubes are immediately returned to your Production tracks, 
which may also reduce your Money production.
Q: Is it ever possible to voluntarily remove population 
cubes from the board without giving up the control of the 
entire hex?
A: No. It can be done with the Influence action, though, by 
first removing the disc and the cubes from the hex and then 
returning the disc back to the hex.
Q: My precious ships keep getting blown to pieces. How 
can I win more battles?
A: You have an advantage if you get to shoot first, cannot be 
hit or can take some beating. Buy better Drives and Com­
puters to increase your Initiative, and Missiles to attack 
before the close range combat. Buy Shields to render the 
opponent's Computers useless. Buy Hull parts to withstand 
more hits. Collect Discovery Tiles to get unique, powerful 
Q: Aren't Interceptors too small to be of any use?
A: Not really. For example, try upgrading them with a better 
energy source and they can pack quite a punch. They often 
work best when specialized somehow. 
Q: Are the Shields of any use if my opponents don't have 
Computers? 
A: No. Then again, if they don't have Computers, they most 
likely won't hit you anyway. Use that to your advantage.
Q: If I have the Gluon Computer Technology, can I take 
Positron Computer Ship Parts?
A: No. Each Ship Part (apart from the default ones, ie. Ion 
Cannon, Nuclear Drive, Nuclear Source, Hull and Electron 
Computer) requires its own Technology.
Q: If all of my ships try to retreat but are all destroyed 
while doing so, do I get the Reputation Tile for taking part 
in a battle?
A: No. Your ships are considered to have retreated as soon 
as you decide to retreat them. 
Q: If the Ancient Ships are destroyed from a Descendants 
controlled hex but the Descendants still control the hex, 
can they take the Discovery Tile?
A: The Discovery Tiles can only be taken when placing an 
Influence Disc. So you'll first have to remove the disc with 
the Influence action and then place it again.
Q: Do I have to use the Descendants' or Planta's Explore 
ability? If not, when may I choose whether to use it or 
not?
A: You don't have to draw two hexes with the Descendants, 
or Explore two times with Planta. You can decide after see­
ing the first hex.
faQ

military Technologies
Neutron Bombs You may destroy all 
the Population Cubes from the hex 
without rolling any dice.
Phase Shield You may 
Upgrade phase shield 
Starbase You may Build 
Starbases.
Advanced Mining You may 
place Population Cubes in the 
advanced Materials squares 
with your Colony Ships.
Tachyon Source You may 
Upgrade tachyon source 
Plasma Cannon You may 
Upgrade Plasma Cannon 
Plasma Missile You may 
Upgrade Plasma missile 
Gluon Computer You may 
Upgrade gluon computer
Gauss Shield You may 
Upgrade gauss shield
Positron Computer You may 
Upgrade positron computer
Improved Hull You may 
Upgrade improved hull
Advanced Economy You may place 
Population Cubes in the 
advanced Money squares with 
Antimatter Cannon You may 
Upgrade antimatter cannon
Fusion Source You may 
Upgrade fusion source
Tachyon Drive You may 
Upgrade tachyon drive
Quantum Grid You receive two 
additional Influence Discs, placed 
immediately on your Influence Track.
Nanorobots You may Build one 
additional Ship or Structure.
Orbital You may Build 
Orbitals.
Fusion Drive You may 
Upgrade fusion drive
Advanced Labs You may place 
Population Cubes in the 
advanced Science squares with 
Artifact Key You must take 
5 Resources of one type for 
each Artifact on your hexes. 
Advanced Robotics You receive one 
additional Influence Disc, placed 
immediately on your Influence Track.
Monolith You may Build 
Monoliths.
Wormhole Generator You may 
Explore, Influence and Move through 
a hex edge that has a Wormhole on 
just one side.
grid Technologies
nano Technologies

>6
	 	
	 Technology Tiles on Supply Board
	 	
	Outer Sector hex stack
game end scoring
Reputation Tiles 
	
1–4 VP per tile
Ambassador Tiles 
	
1 VP per tile
Hexes controlled
	
1–4 VP per hex
Discovery Tiles
	
2 VP per tile 
Monoliths on controlled hexes 
	
3 VP per Monolith
Progress on Technology Track 
	
4 tiles on a track = 1 VP
	
5 tiles = 2 VP
	
6 tiles = 3 VP
	
7 tiles = 5 VP 
Traitor Card
	
–2 VP 
Species bonuses
	 Starting from start player and going clockwise: take an Action or Pass
	
	 	
∑xp	
Explore – place a hex next to a hex where you have a disc or a Ship, may discard
	 	
∏n∫	
Influence – move Influence Discs and flip Colony Ships face up
	 	
r∑s	
Research – take a Technology, pay 
 Science
	 	
upg	
Upgrade – discard and take Ship Parts
	 	
bu∏	
Build – build Ships or Structures in hexes where you have a disc, pay 
 Materials
	 	
mov	
Move – move Ships; may move same or different 
	 At any time during action, you may use Colony Ships
	 Turn Summary Card dark side up when passing
	 After passing, you may only do Reactions ( 
mov, 
bu∏ or 
upg — weaker actions)
	 Resolve battles in descending hex order
	 Score of 6 or more is a hit; a roll of 6 is always a hit, roll of 1 is always a miss
	 If a hex contains more than two sides, battles resolved in reversed entry order
	 GCDS, Ancients and player controlling the hex always battle last
	 Draw 
 Reputation Tiles (max 5) once per hex, keep one, placed on track
	 	
1 Tile for taking part in a battle (not if your last Ships retreated)
	 	
1 Tile for each opposing Interceptor, Starbase & Ancient destroyed
	 	
2 Tiles for each opposing Cruiser destroyed 
	 	
3 Tiles for each opposing Dreadnought destroyed 
	 	
3 Tiles for the Galactic Center Defense destroyed 
	 May use remaining Colony Ships
	 Pay 
 Upkeep and receive 
 
 Production
 
	 Return Influence Discs from Action Track to Influence Track
	 	
	 Draw new Technology Tiles from bag
+3
-1