Components
5 Sets of: 14 Wooden Cubes and 3 Wooden Discs, 1 Double-Sided 
Board, 42 Cards, 44 Coin Tokens, 10 Goods Tokens,
Rulebook
Setup
1. Place the board on the table.
2. If playing with 2, 3, or 4 players, go through the cards and remove 
the five cards with the little number “5” in the top right corner, just 
below the scroll on which the good is displayed. Shuffle the cards 
and place them in a deck face down next to the board. Draw six 
cards and place them face up in a row along the top of the board.
3. Each player takes a set of one color of cubes (14 armies) and discs 
(3 cities). Each player places 3 armies on the starting region on the 
board. If playing with 2 players, each player takes turns placing 
one army at a time of a third, non-player color in any region on the 
board until ten armies have 
been placed.
4. Place the coin tokens in a 
pile next to the board. This 
is the supply. Each player 
takes 8 coins if playing 
with five players, 9 coins if 
playing with four players, 
11 coins with three, and 14 
coins with two.
You are now ready to play.

Playing the Game
1. Players bid to see who will choose the first player. Each player 
picks up his coins and secretly chooses a number to bid by placing 
them in a closed fist and holding the fist out over the game board. 
When all players are ready, all players reveal the amount they have 
chosen to bid at the same time. The player who bids the most coins 
wins the bid and puts the coins he bid in the supply. Other players 
do not pay coins if they lost the bid. If the bids are tied for most, the 
youngest player wins the bid and pays his coins. If all bids are zero, 
the youngest player wins the bid. There is only one bid per game. 
The winner of the bid chooses who will be first player.
2. Starting with the first player and going in clockwise order, play-
ers take turns taking one of the face up cards. When a player takes 
a card, he places it face up in front of him. He must pay the appro-
priate coin cost for the card depending on where it is in the row 
(this cost is listed at the top of the board). From left to right, these 
are the coin costs of the cards: 0, 1, 1, 2, 2, and 3. For example, if a 
player selected the third card from the left, he would pay one coin. 
The card gives a good and an ac-
tion. The player takes the action 
immediately. Actions allow play-
ers to build their empires and take 
control of the board. The follow-
ing are possible actions:
-Place new armies on the 
board. The number of armies 
shown indicates how many the 
player may place. You may place 
them only on the starting region 
or on a region where you have a 
city. Armies need not be placed all in the same region. 
-Move armies. The number 
of armies shown indicates the 
amount of movement the card 
gives you. For example, this ac-
tion shows 3 armies, so you could 
move one army up to 3 times, or 
3 armies one time each, or 1 army two times and another army one time. 
This action is only for land movement and does not allow you to cross the 
dotted lines over oceans.

-Move over land and/or 
water. Same as “Move Armies” 
described above, but you may 
also move between two regions 
connected by a dotted line (over 
water) as if they were adjacent.
-Build a city. Place a city 
anywhere on the board where 
you have an army. Regions can 
contain more than one city from 
any number of players.
-Destroy army. You may 
remove an army from the board 
belonging to any player from any 
location. 
-”And/Or” actions. If there 
are two different actions on the 
card with an “or” between them, 
you may choose which action to 
perform. If there are two different 
actions on the card with an “and” 
between them, you may perform both actions.
Note: If a player so chooses, he may take the card and ignore the ac-
tion.
After a player takes his card 
and action, slide the remain-
ing cards to the left to fill in 
the empty card space. Draw 
a new card and place it in 
the right-most space. Play 
then passes to the left.
o r

Game End
The game ends when each player owns a certain number of cards 
depending on the number of players.
	
2 Players		
13 Cards
	
3 Players		
10 Cards
	
4 Players 	
8 Cards
	
5 Players 	
7 Cards
Players now count up victory points in their heads. 
Regions: A player gains one victory point for each region on the map he 
controls. A player controls a region if he has more armies there than any 
other player (cities count as armies when determining control). If players 
have the same number of armies in a region, no one controls it. 
Continents: A player gains one victory point for 
each continent he controls. A player controls 
a continent if he controls more regions in the 
continent than anyone else. If players are tied 
for controlled regions, no one controls the 
continent.
Goods: A player gains victory points for his sets 
of goods. Players can now decide where to place their “Wild” cards. “Wild” 
goods cards can be added to any goods cards a player already owns for one 
extra of that good per “Wild” card. The amount of victory points each good 
is worth depends on how many cards of that good he has and is listed in the 
middle of the card in four amounts. For example, Crystals are worth 1 point 
for one card, 2 for two cards, 3 for three cards, and 5 for four cards. 
The player who has the most victory points from regions, conti-
nents, and goods has the most powerful empire and is the winner! If 
players are tied, the player with the most coins wins. If still tied, the player 
with the most armies on the board wins. If still tied, the player with the 
most controlled regions wins.
Variants
-Full Game: For a longer experience, play three games. The player with the 
highest sum of victory points from all three games is the winner.
-Goods Tokens: During game setup, randomly place one of the goods tokens 
on each region on the board with a triangle. The player who controls a 
region with a good token in it has one more of the depicted good.
-Alternate Bidding Tie Breaker: Instead of the youngest player 
winning the first-player bid when tied, roll a die to see who wins.
Game Design: Ryan Laukat Illustration: Ryan Laukat
Thanks to: Alex Davis, John Breckenridge, Malorie Laukat 
Copyright 2012 Red Raven Games
Four continents.