g a m e d e s i g n e d b y 
WOLFGANG KRAMER A N D HORST-RAINER RÖSNER
2-5 players, 10 years old and more. Playing time 60-120 minutes.
YOU ARE A REPUTABLE MERCHANT IN THE 15th CENTURY 
sailing to strategically important cities of the Mediterranean, building 
warehouses in these cities and fortresses to protect them. It is your ambition to 
become the most mighty and successful merchant of all. But you will succeed 
only if you manage to establish your warehouses in as many cities as possible 
and if you build your warehouses and fortresses in the most flourishing cities. 
The player owning the most money at the end of the game is the most renowned 
merchant and winner of the game.
Who will become the most powerful merchant of the Middle Ages?

GAME COMPONENTS
-	 1 game board 
-	 5 wooden ships (5 different colors)
-	 90 wooden warehouses (5 colors, 18 pieces of 
	 each color)
-	 15 fortresses (5 colors, 3 pieces of each color)
-	 1 starting player token (El Capitan) 
-	 54 sailing cards (18 destination/sea route cards and 	
	 36 city interconnection cards)
-	 3 proliferation bonus cards (15 Florin, 10 Florin, 
	 5 Florin)
-	 30 loan cards (18 loans of 10 Florin and 12 loans of 
	 16 Florin) 
-	 111 coins (30 x 1 Florin, 20 x 5 Florin, 30 x 10 Florin 
	 and 20 x 50 Florin)
Expansion (please see inside back cover):
-	 3 additional city tiles 
-	 1 black pirate ship
AIM OF THE GAME
Each player adopts the role of a merchant during the 
15th century, sailing to strategically important cities of 
the Mediterranean, building warehouses in these cities 
and fortresses to protect them. 
The game is split into three phases, each phase ending 
with a payday.
Each payday, every player receives money for:
-	 the number of cities in which she has built 
	 warehouses (proliferation)
-	 each fortress she has built
-	 each city in which she owns the most or second 
	 most warehouses (majority)
The player owning the most money at the end of 
the game (after the third payday), is the winner of 
the game.
	
PREPARATION
Each player chooses a color and takes the following 
components of her color:
-	 1 ship
-	 6 warehouses
-	 1 fortress 
All players are paid 20 Florin as their starting capital
All players place their ship, warehouses, fortress and 
coins in front of themselves on the table. All remaining 
warehouses and fortresses are placed besides the game 
board in a common pool. During the game the players 
keep their money open for all other players to see.
Sailing cards: There are two different types of sailing 
cards, which have to be divided in two separate decks. 
One deck comprises the destination/sea route cards, and 
the other deck being the city interconnection cards. 
Both decks are shuffled separately.
Four destination cards and six city interconnection 
cards are placed face up on both sides of the game board, 
next to their respective face down decks (see illustration 
on the following page).
Loans: The loans cards are placed face up in two separate 
decks (10 Florin and 16 Florin) on the two bank spaces.
One player is chosen as banker and will be handling all the 
coins and loans.
The three proliferation bonus cards are placed in reach besides 
the game board.
	
	THE GAME BOARD
The game board shows the table of a captain of a medieval 
merchant ship. Nine cities of the Mediterranean are 
depicted.
	
	The top row of each city is composed of two harbor spaces 
and two building sites for fortresses. The number shown 
in each harbor space is the cost for building a warehouse 
in this city. The number shown in each fortress space 
is the cost for building a fortress in this city. The other 
spaces (in a U-shaped track) surrounding the picture 
of the city are the building sites for the warehouses – 
except the last space on the right. The number shown in 
each of these building sites is the income of the players 
on each payday for their warehouses.
	
	There are two banking spaces on the right side of the 
game board, a bank harbor and the proliferation chart. 
The loan cards are placed on the two banking spaces
	
	The proliferation chart shows the amount of money 
each player receives on a payday, depending on the 
number of cities in which she has built warehouses. 
The proliferation chart is split in two columns: The 
left column displays the number of cities in which the 
player has built warehouses and the right column shows 
the amount of money she earns from her warehouses on 
each payday. 
	Example: After the first phase of the game has ended, a player 
has built warehouses in four different cities. Now it is payday 
and she earns 10 Florin from her warehouses.
	SAILING CARDS
	The sailing cards tell the players to which cities they can 
sail with their ships and how much they have to pay for 
this journey. 
	A player buying such a card has established a sailing 
route and can set sail once with this card.
	There are two types of sailing cards:
-	 Destination and sea route cards
-	 City interconnection cards
DESTINATION AND SEA 
ROUTE CARDS
These cards can be used in two different ways:
-	
Destination card: The player is sailing directly to 
a free harbor space of the city named on the card 
(the card itself shows the location of the city on the 
captain’s table).
-	
Sea route card: The player is setting sail from the 
city where her ship currently is anchoring. She can 
proceed as many cities as there are seals shown on the 
card. Each seal is allowing her to sail to the next city 
in a horizontal or perpendicular line. If more than 

A: 4 destination cards
B: Face down deck (supply)
C: Discard pile destination 	
 cards
G: Proliferation chart
H: Loan cards
I: Bank harbor space
D: 3 proliferation bonus 
 cards
E: Coins
G
H
I
H
J: 6 city interconnection cards
K: Face down deck (supply) 
L: Discard pile 
	 City interconnection cards
J
K
L
F: Tanger, one of 9 cities
F
A CITY (MARSEILLE)
A: Harbor: These are the two spaces for the ships. If a player wants to 
build a warehouse and/or a fortress in this city he must land his ship 
in one of these two harbor spaces. The number shown in the space 
is the cost for building a warehouse in this city. A player whose ship 
is in the first harbor space must pay 4 Florin for each warehouse and 
a player with his ship in the second harbor space must pay 5 Florin 
for her warehouses.
B: Fortress: A player wanting to build a fortress must have her ship 
on one of the two harbor spaces and at least one of the two fortress 
spaces must be unoccupied. The player building on the first fortress 
space has to pay 8 Florin and then places his fortress there. This space 
is now blocked for the remainder of the game. A player building his 
fortress on the second space has to pay 10 Florin. 
C: The first two warehouses are 
built on these two spaces. Only the 
player building the first warehouse 
has the choice to build it either on 
the first or on the second space. 
D: The space with the darker triangle 
is an additional shut down space 
in a 2- or 3-player-game. It is of no 
meaning in a 4- or 5-player-game.
E: The dark-colored spaces are called shut down spaces. When a 
player builds her warehouse on such a space, the first warehouse of 
the warehouse chain is shut down. This warehouse is then placed on 
the center picture of the city. On a payday it does not count towards 
proliferation or majority anymore.
F
G
F: Last building site 
G: No warehouse may be erected 
on this space.

one seal is shown, she may proceed to as many cities 
or less (horizontal and perpendicular, rectangular 
turns are allowed).
CITY INTERCONNECTION 
CARDS
 
It is cheaper to purchase these cards, but players can 
sail only from one of the two cities to the other one. For 
example, if you buy the card Venezia – Tanger, you have 
to pay 3 Florin to the bank. With this card you then may 
sail once only from Venezia to Tanger or once only from 
Tanger to Venizia. In order to use this card, your ship 
must be in one of the two cities mentioned on the card.
OVERVIEW
The game is played in three phases, each phase consisting 
of several rounds. At the end of each phase there is a 
payday. The youngest player is the starting player of the 
first phase, i. e. at the beginning of the game. She is given 
the starting player token “El Capitan” and places it in 
front of herself. In her turn a player may sail first and 
then must perform one of the three following actions: 
1. 	Build a warehouse (or re-open) 
A player who wants to build or re-open a warehouse 
must have her ship on a harbor space of a city. Before 
and after building she may buy sailing cards. During her 
turn she may build or re-open exactly one warehouse. 
2. 	Build a fortress
A player who wants to build a fortress must have her ship 
on a harbor space of a city. Before and after building she 
may buy sailing cards. During her turn she may build 
exactly one fortress. 
3. 	Take a loan
A player who wants to take a loan must have her ship in 
the bank harbor space. She may not perform any other 
actions during this turn. During her turn she may take one 
loan only.
Note: The two-player game has different rules, which are 
explained in the “End of the game” paragraph.
THE ACTIONS IN DETAIL
Purchase of sailing cards
This action is not mandatory and does not count as one 
of the three actions you have to perform during your 
turn. There are always four destination/sea route cards 
and six city interconnection cards on open display.
During her turn a player may buy as many of these cards 
as she wants or can afford. She takes all cards she wants 
to buy to her hand and pays the money to the bank. 
These cards may be used immediately or in later turns. 
At the beginning of the game each player must buy at 
least one card in order to bring his ship into play. 
After a player’s turn has ended, new cards are taken from 
the decks and displayed open on the table, if appropriate. 
This way all players always have a full choice. If one of 
the decks is exhausted, the discard pile is shuffled and 
used as the new deck.
Sailing
At the beginning of the game all players must buy at 
least one destination card and sail to a destination city 
with their ship.
During the course of the game sailing is a voluntarily 
action, but if a player wants to set sail, she must do so 
before erecting any building. In this case the player 
plays a sailing card (which she had bought during this 
turn or a former turn) and sails directly to the city 
named on the sailing card or sails up to as many routes 
as the number of seals on the card. If the first harbor 
space is occupied, the ship must be placed on the second 
harbor space. If both harbor spaces are occupied, the 
player cannot anchor in this city and must continue 
sailing. The active player may play as many sailing cards 
as she wants to. When playing several cards during one 
turn there must be a free harbor space only in that city 
in which the player intends to erect a building. 
Example: A player sails to Tanger with a destination card and 
then from Tanger to Alexandria with the appropriate city 
interconnection card. 
At the beginning of the game and from the bank harbor, 
players can sail off only by using a destination card. For 
sailing to the bank harbor you don’t need any card, this 
journey is free of charge. All cards played are discarded 
on two separate discard piles. 
A: Number of red seals = 
number of routes you 
can sail, starting from 
any city
B:	 Purchase cost of this 
card 
C: Destination: Starting off 
from any city or from 
the bank or at the start 
of the game you may 
sail directly to this city.
D: Location of this city on 
the game board 
Using this card a player may sail directly to Marseille, no matter 
where her ship currently is. Or she may sail up to three routes, 
starting from where her ship is anchoring. For example, if the ship 
currently is in Valencia, it can reach all cities on the game board. 
A: Purchase cost of this 
card 
B: With this card a player 
may sail from Venezia 
to Tanger or from 
Tanger to Venezia. 
C: Location of the two 
cities on the game 
board

You can build a warehouse only in that city in which 
your ship currently is anchoring in one of the two 
harbor spaces. In order to build a warehouse, you pay 
the cost to the bank as shown on the harbor space of 
your ship and place one of your warehouses on the next 
free building site.
The player building the first warehouse in that city 
chooses if he builds his warehouse on the first building 
site (“0”-space) or on the second. If the first warehouse 
is built on the second site, then the second warehouse 
in that city must be built on the first building site. It 
doesn’t matter if this is built by the same player or by 
some other. 
The third warehouse and all further ones in that city 
are always built on the next, adjacent building site on 
this U-track. The last space of this track is a no building 
site; no building whatsoever may be erected there. The 
numbers on the building sites are of importance only 
on a payday.
In her next turn a player may remain in the city where 
her ship is anchoring and build another warehouse, or 
a fortress. But of course she may set sail to some other 
city and erect some building there or she may sail to the 
bank and take a loan.
If your ship is anchoring on the more costly harbor 
space you may not move to the cheaper one in case it 
becomes unoccupied.
No player is allowed to have more than three warehouses 
in a row in any city. If a player has built (or re-opened) 
three warehouses in a row she is allowed to build a 
further warehouse in that city only after some other 
player has built a warehouse there.
Build a fortress
You can build a fortress only in that city in which your 
ship currently is anchoring in one of the two harbor 
spaces. 
When building a fortress you pay the cost shown on an 
empty fortress building site to the bank and place one of 
your fortresses there. 
In her next turn a player may remain in the city where 
her ship is anchoring and build a warehouse or she may 
set sail to some other city and erect some building there 
or she may sail to the bank and take a loan.
No player may have more than one fortress in any city.
Each time a warehouse is erected on a dark-colored 
building site the first warehouse in the warehouse chain 
in this city is shut down, no matter whom it belongs to. 
(When building on the first dark-colored building site 
the warehouse on the “0”-space is shut down. When 
building on the second dark-colored building site the 
warehouse on the second building site is shut down 
etc.). A warehouse that gets shut down is removed from 
its building site and placed on the central picture of the 
city. Any warehouses standing on the picture of a city 
do not count on a payday, neither for proliferation nor 
for majority. Players can build on these now unoccupied 
building sites only after a warehouse has been built on 
the last possible building site (the second-to-last space) 
in this city. 
For a two- or three-player-game there’s an additional 
shut down space in each city. The first warehouse will 
be shut down as soon as a player builds her warehouse 
on the building site with the dark-colored triangle.
Red has sailed to Marseille and built her first warehouse for 
4 Florin. She had the choice to build it on the first or second 
building site, and she settled for the second one.
Green arrived after Red. She built four warehouses and one 
fortress. Her first warehouse had to go on the first building site. 
If no other player will build a warehouse now in Marseille, Green 
has to leave the city because she is not allowed to own more than 
three warehouses in a row. 
Warehouse shut down: Yellow has built a warehouse on the first 
dark-colored building site. The first warehouse is shut down and 
placed on the central picture of the city

Re-opening of a shut down warehouse
The owning player of a shut down warehouse may re-
open her now worthless warehouse, if she sails again to 
that city (or still is in that city). She anchors her ship on 
a free harbor space and can re-open her warehouse free 
of charge. When doing so, she removes her warehouse 
from the picture of the city and places it next to the 
last warehouse built. When re-opening one of her 
warehouses the player can not build another warehouse 
or a fortress during the same turn. 
In case a warehouse is shut down and the ship of the 
owning player happens to be in that city she may re-
open it immediately when it is her turn.
The last possible building site is occupied 
by a warehouse
Only after a warehouse has been erected on the last 
possible building site (second-to-last space) of a city, 
new warehouses may be built (or re-opened) on those 
building sites which had become unoccupied by 
shutting down warehouses. The warehouse now is 
built the other way round, i. e. starting next to the first 
warehouse still in operation. This means that the last 
building site used is the “0”-space. When a warehouse 
is erected on all 12 building sites, no more warehouses 
can be built in this city and no warehouses in this city 
can be shut down anymore.
When building “backwards”, i. e. on a free building site 
which had been occupied before, you still have to obey 
the rule that no more than three warehouses of the 
same color are allowed to be in a row.
Take a loan
A player wanting to take a loan has to sail from her 
current city to the harbor of the bank (no sailing card is 
required for such a journey) and takes a loan this turn. 
Two kinds of loans can be taken:
After taking the loan the player places the card face 
up in front of herself showing the amount of the loan 
and then receives the money from the bank. When it 
is her turn again, she may remain on the bank space 
and take another loan or she has to sail to a city using a 
destination card. 
Please note: If a player does not want to erect a building 
during her turn or is not able to do so she must sail with 
her ship to the harbor space of the bank and is forced 
to take a loan. No sailing card is required for such a 
journey. Loans cannot be taken during the first round 
of the game.
The number of ships on the harbor space of the bank is 
not limited.
Re-opening a warehouse: Later, Blue had built on the second dark-
colored building site, so the second warehouse (Red) was shut 
down. Subsequently, Red re-opened her warehouse for free. In 
order to do so she had to sail to Marseille again.
As soon as the last building site of a city is occupied, the formerly 
occupied building sites, can be built in again. The warehouse 
chain is built “backwards” now towards the fist building site. The 
“0”-space is the last site to be built upon. 
Even if the last three houses in Marseille would be red, player Red 
can build at the front of the chain, because not all of her houses 
would be in a row.
If Green would build in front of the chain, she could still erect a
warehouse on space “8”, but after that, not on space “4” because 
this would mean Green would have four houses of the same color 
in a row.
10 Florin loan
pay back 12 Florin, 
pay back after loan extension is 
16 Florin (backside of the card) 
16 Florin loan
pay back 20 Florin, 
pay back after loan extension is 
30 Florin (backside of the card) 

As soon as one player has built all their warehouses 
and fortresses, the phase ends at the end of the current 
round (this way all players have the same number of 
turns). 
All players are then paid money for proliferation, 
majority and their fortresses built.
The proliferation chart denotes how much money is 
paid. If a player owns warehouses in three cities she 
will receive 5 Florin, if she owns warehouses in all nine 
cities, she will receive 60 Florin. In order to qualify for 
this it is sufficient to have just one warehouse only in 
a city.
Fortresses and shut down warehouses do not count 
against the proliferation chart.
Proliferation Bonus 
The first player to have built at least one of her warehouses 
in each of all nine cities (shut down warehouses are 
not eligible) receives the first bonus card (15 Florin) 
immediately after building her warehouse in the ninth 
city and keeps it in front of her. The second and third 
player to achieve this will receive the second and third 
bonus cards respectively.
If a player holding a bonus card is forced to shut down 
one or more of her warehouses and therefore is not 
present anymore in all nine cities she still keeps her 
bonus card and is not forced to lose it.
The amount shown on the bonus cards (15, 10 and 
5 Florin) is paid to the players on the third payday.
Each city is scored separately. Only the two players 
owning the most and second most warehouses on the 
U-track spaces will be paid. The player owning the most 
warehouses in this city is paid the amount shown on the
next free space to the right and the player owning the 
second most warehouses is paid half this amount, rounded 
down. For example, if the first player receives 15 Florin for 
the majority of her warehouses, the runner-up receives 7 
Florin.
Tie: If several players own the same number of houses 
in a city, the player whose first house precedes the first 
house of all other tied players’ ranks first. There’s always 
only one first and one second player qualifying for first 
and second rank.
When the last building site has been built upon, the 
last free space to the right shows the amount to be paid, 
which from now remains unchanged until the end of 
the game.
Fortresses
For each of their fortresses all players receive the 
same amount of money as paid for the second rank of 
warehouse majority in this city. Looking at the topmost 
illustration, both Green and Red are paid 10 Florin each 
for their fortress (half of 20). In a city or cities that contain 
the most warehouses, players are paid the same amount 
as for the first rank of warehouse majority. Provided the 
city shown in the above illustration contains the most 
warehouses (there are no more than 10 warehouses in 
any other city), Green and Red are paid 20 Florin each 
for their fortress. 
Shut down warehouses on the central picture of the 
city are disregarded when counting the total number of 
warehouses in each city.
If there are several cities with the same highest number 
of warehouses, players receive the amount for their 
fortress as paid for the first rank of warehouse majority 
in all these cities.
Both Green and Blue own the most warehouses. Green has built 
her first house before Blue, so she is first and is paid 20 Florin, 
Blue is second and is paid half that amount (10 Florin). If the 
next warehouse would be built by Red, Red would be first and 
Green second. 
The game is in an advanced state. Red, Blue and Yellow are tied for 
most warehouses (the shut down warehouse belonging to Blue 
does not count). Because Red owns the first house of the chain she 
is first and is paid 16 Florin. Blue is second and is paid 8 Florin. 
Yellow does not receive any money from her warehouses. 

AFTER A PAYDAY
Pay back loans or extension of loans
After a payday, all players, beginning with the starting 
player of this phase and proceeding in clockwise order, 
have to decide if they want to pay back their loans or to 
extend them. When paying back, the player places the 
loan card back on the appropriate bank space and pays the 
pay back amount shown on the card to the bank (12 Florin 
on a 10 Florin loan or 20 Florin on a 16 Florin loan).
When extending a loan, the player flips the card to its 
backside. In that case, she has to pay back the loan after 
the next payday – but has to pay back considerably 
more as shown on the card now. Each loan may be 
extended only once; thereafter it must be paid back by 
any means.
Players can take loans anytime they sail to the bank, as 
much as they want or need.
Players paying back their loans or extending them do 
not have to sail to the bank.
Money check
After each payday all players count their money, 
subtracting their loans (pay back value) not yet paid 
back, and declare openly how much money they own. 
This way all players know the current ranking of players 
after each interim scoring.
Starting player of the next phase
The player with the least amount of money after the 
money check decides who will be the starting player of 
the next game phase. The elected player is then given 
the “El Capitan” token and is the starting player of the 
next phase.
New warehouses and fortresses
Each player takes six new warehouses and one new 
fortress of her color from the common pool, adding 
them to any still standing in front of her on the table.
END OF THE GAME AND 
WINNER
The game ends after the third game phase, when at least 
one player has built all her warehouses and fortresses (it 
doesn’t matter if any of her warehouses are shut down). 
The current round will not be interrupted so in this 
way all players will have the same number of turns. 
The third payday is the end of the game. All loans have 
to be paid back now. 
Players owning a proliferation bonus card receive the 
money shown on their card now.
The player owning the most money is the winner of the 
game.
SPECIAL RULES FOR 
PLAYING EL CAPITAN 
WITH TWO PLAYERS 
The basic rules remain unchanged, but are augmented 
with the following rules:
Both players are building warehouses of two colors.
Each player selects her main player color and a second 
“neutral” color. They still have one ship each in their 
main color only.
On each payday only the player holding the first rank 
for majority will be paid money.
When checking for majority, neutral houses are counted 
as well, but no money is paid for them.
For largest number of warehouses in a city, money for 
first rank of majority is paid only if the largest number 
of warehouses is of the main color of the player.
Preparation
Each phase both players take six warehouses and one 
fortress of their main color and two warehouses of 
their neutral color.
The remaining warehouses and fortresses are put 
aside as a common pool.
Example: Player A takes red and green warehouses, 
player B takes yellow and blue ones.
 
The younger player is starting player. She takes the 
“El Capitan” token and places it in front of herself.
As long as a player still has warehouses in front of herself 
on the table, the number of warehouses of her main color 
always must be larger than the number of warehouses of 
her neutral color. 
Extending this loan, you have 
to pay back 20 Florin after the 
next payday.
Extending this loan, you have 
to pay back 30 Florin after the 
next payday.

Warehouses (6 + 2) of player A at the beginning of the 
game:
Player A may build a red or a green warehouse.
Warehouses (3 + 2) of player A at a later state of the 
game:
Player A must build a green warehouse as his next one. 
If you build a red one then you will have 2 red and 2 
green and you can’t have an equal amount.
It is not allowed to have the same number of red (main 
color) and green (neutral color) warehouses (this would 
be the case if player would build a red warehouse). 
Now player A may build a red or a green warehouse.
In this situation player A must build his last green 
warehouse.
A player may not have more than three warehouses 
of her main color in a row (this applies to building 
and re-opening) and may not have more than four 
warehouses of her main and neutral color in a row 
(again this applies to building and re-opening). She 
may only build a further warehouse in this city after the 
other player has built one of her warehouses there.
A phase ends when one player has built all her 
warehouses and fortresses of her main color and all 
her warehouses of her neutral color which before were 
standing in front of her on the table. If this was the 
starting player, the other player still takes one turn. 
Then they proceed to payday.
Only the warehouses of the two main colors are counted 
when checking for proliferation.
Proliferation bonus
Also when checking for proliferation bonus cards only 
the warehouses of the two main colors are counted.
Only the color of the most warehouses is taken into 
account.
If this is the main (first) color of one of the players, that 
player is paid the amount of money as shown on the 
next free (adjacent) space.
Example 1: Red is the main color of 
player A and yellow the main color of 
player B.
Player A has built a warehouse with his neutral color 
green and player B has built a warehouse with his main 
color yellow. The green warehouse was built before the 
yellow one, so green has first rank for majority. On a 
payday nobody receives any money, because green is 
only the neutral color of Player A.
Example 2: Red is the main color of 
player A and green his neutral color.
As shown in this example player A has built both 
warehouses in this city. If it is payday now she still 
receives no money, because the first rank green is her 
neutral color only
AFTER A PAYDAY
Starting player of the next phase
The player with less money after the money check 
decides if she herself will be the starting player of the 
next game phase or the other player.
New warehouses and fortresses
Each player takes six new warehouses and one new 
fortress of her main color from the common pool and 
two new warehouses of her neutral color, adding them 
to any still standing in front of her on the table.
END OF THE GAME AND 
WINNER
The game ends after the third game phase, when one 
player has built all her warehouses and fortresses. If this 
was the starting player, the other player still takes one 
turn.
The player owning the most money is the winner of the 
game.

EL CAPITÁN – 
EXPANSION RULES
If you have played El Capitán a couple of times using 
the standard game board you may want to try it adding 
the extra city tiles. It is recommended to use only one 
of the three additional city tiles when you start playing 
with these. Experienced El Capitán players however 
may use two or even all three additional cities, when 
playing with four or five players.
Additional components
-	 3 special city tiles (Porto, Lisboa, Islas Canarias)
-	 1 black pirate ship (only used in combination 	
	
with Islas Canarias)
PREPARATION
The players select one or more of the special city tiles 
and place them adjacent to the left side of the game 
board on the table.
Porto always has to be at the same height (same line) as 
Marseille, Lisboa at the same height as Valencia and Islas 
Canarias at the same height as Tanger, no matter if you 
use only one, two or all three of the special city tiles.
In total you will have ten, eleven or twelve cities you 
can sail to and where you can build your warehouses 
and fortresses.
If you are using Islas Canarias, the black pirate ship is 
placed on the second harbor space of this city.
Sailing off the main game board
A city which is not situated on the main game board can 
be reached only by using a sea route card (with one, two 
or three seals). Furthermore the ship sailing there must 
start its journey in the harbor of a city. 
Example: Starting in Valencia you need a sea route card 
with one seal at least if you want to sail to Lisboa; starting in 
Napoli, Marseille or Tanger you must have a sea route card 
with two seals at least. From Constantinople or Alexandria 
you need sea route cards with a total of four seals at least, or 
you may use a city interconnection card first and then a sea 
route card.
At the beginning of the game or from the bank harbor 
you can not sail to one of these cities with just one 
sailing card.
You can leave a city off the main board only with 
another destination card or sea route card, except when 
you want to take a loan. In this case you can sail directly 
to the bank harbor as usual, without using any card. 
You may sail from one city off the main board to another 
city off the main board with an appropriate sea route 
card. Sailing from Porto to Islas Canarias you would need 
a sea route card with two seals at least, for example. 
The additional cities count towards proliferation, so it 
is possible to own warehouses in ten, eleven or twelve 
cities. 
A player owning warehouses in ten cities is paid 75 
Florin, in eleven cities 90 Florin and in twelve cities 110 
Florin.
Proliferation bonus 
When checking for being the first, second, or third 
player having warehouses in nine cities in order to 
receive the proliferation bonus cards the additional 
cities are eligible as all other ones.
All players owning at least one operating warehouse 
(i.e. not shut down) in a city off the main board receive 
half the amount shown on the next free space of the U-
track. 
The player with the majority of warehouses (first rank) 
receives the full amount. 
majority rules above
SPECIAL RULES FOR LISBOA
If your ship is anchoring on the first harbor space 
in Lisboa you do not pay anything for building your 
warehouses in this city, but if you are anchoring on the 
second harbor space you have to pay 1 Florin for each 
warehouse you are building.
Immediate payment
If you build a warehouse in Lisboa you are paid for it 
immediately. If, after building your warehouse, you’re
holding the majority you will receive the full amount 
as shown on the next free space, if you are not holding 
the majority you will receive half of this amount.
Example: Player Yellow is the first player to build a warehouse 
in Lisboa and places it on the second building site, she 

immediately is paid 4 Florin. Then Red builds her warehouse on 
the first building site (she has to build there) and is paid 4 Florin 
as well. If Blue would build a warehouse - it has to be built on the 
third building site – she will receive only 3 Florin (half of 6).
immediate payment rules above
There are only two spaces in Lisboa which will cause a 
warehouse shut down.
SPECIAL RULES FOR PORTO
Build a warehouse and fortress
Porto is the only city with three harbor spaces, so three 
ships can be in Porto at the same time. As in the basic 
rules you cannot move your ship to another unoccupied 
harbor if you are already anchored in Porto.
Only one player can build a fortress in Porto.
Once a warehouse is shut down in Porto it can not be 
re-opened. Instead, it is removed from the game 
immediately.
warehouse shut down rules above
SPECIAL RULES FOR 
ISLAS CANARIAS
Together with Islas Canarias the pirate ship is introduced 
to the game. At the beginning of the game it is placed 
on the second harbor space. 
Any harbor space containing the pirate ship blocks the 
entry of the ships of all players.
Sailing to Islas Canarias
When a player is sailing to Islas Canarias, she anchors in 
one of the two harbor spaces as usual, then must sail the 
pirate ship free of charge (without any cards or money) 
to some other city in the same turn, no matter where 
the pirate ship is currently anchored. In this new city 
now harboring the pirate ship the player must collect a 
protective charge.
If the player wants to stay in Islas Canarias during her 
following turns and she would like to sail the pirate 
ship to some other city, she can do so but only by using 
a sailing card or by paying for it. In this case the player 
does not collect any protective charge.
Moving the pirate ship
The pirate ship can sail only to a city with at least one 
free harbor space. The active player decides if the pirate 
will be anchoring in the free harbor space or in the 
occupied one (in case there is one). If he decides for the 
occupied one, the ship anchoring there is placed on the 
other, empty harbor space. The pirate ship is not allowed 
to change places within a city. 
Collect protective charge
After a player has moved the pirate ship free of charge 
(without any cards or money) she collects a protective 
charge in the city where the pirate ship has just arrived. 
For each building (warehouse, fortress) therein its owner 
has to pay 1 Florin in the first game phase, 2 Florin in 
the second game phase and 3 Florin in the third game 
phase to the active player.
The affected players have to pay the protective charge if 
they have the money. If a player does not have enough 
money, she just pays all her money without any further 
penalty.
Please note: A player landing in Islas Canarias may collect the 
protective charge first and then erect a building, or vice versa.
Move the pirate ship without collecting 
protective charge
All players may move the pirate ship once at any time 
during their turn, no matter where it currently is 
anchored. To do so, she must use one or more sailing 
cards (either destination/ sea route cards or applicable 
city interconnection cards) or she pays 2 Florin for each 
step (from one city to an adjacent city). For moving the 
pirate ship players have to obey the rules as stated above 
“Moving the pirate ship”.
pirate ship rules above

Game design
Wolfgang Kramer and Horst-Rainer Rösner
Illustration und Design
Mike Doyle
Edited by
Jonny de Vries 
Test players
Our thanks go to the following test players for their 
patience, remarks and advice
Ursula Kramer, Oliver Joos, 
Sabrina Weinzierl, Gudrun Glemser, 
Reinhard Kramer, Regina Kramer, 
Matthias Kramer, Spieleclub Ludwigsburg, 
Spieleclub Stuttgarter Kronisten. 
Rules check and editing
Angela Jahn, Ingo Anlauff, Ursula Kramer, 
Ferdinand Köther. 
English-language distribution:
Z-Man Games, Inc.
Internet
Please visit the following websites concerning further 
information about El Capitan
www.qwggames.nl
www.kramer-spiele.de
www.zmangames.com
© 1997 Wolfgang Kramer und Horst-Rainer Rösner
© 2007 Wolfgang Kramer und Horst-Rainer Rösner
© 2007 QWG Games