Church Foundation
- 2 -
- 3 -
- 4 -
Game Overview
e) Building Over Buildings of the
Same Size
You can also build over buildings
that are the same size as your new buil-
ding. First, you must discard 3 matching Influence Cards (i.e., 3 blue, 3
green, or 3 yellow cards).
Building a City Wall
When you decide to build a City Wall Tile, take the top tile of your City
Wall stack and place it next to one side of either City Gate or next to an
already placed City Wall Tile. When building in the direction of the blue
arrow the building cost for a City Wall Tile is 2 gold. If you build along
the red arrow, the cost to build a City Wall Tile is 4 gold.
If you build a City Wall
Tile that shows 1 or 2 In-
fluence Cards, draw the
number of cards shown
from the deck.
When you build a City
Wall Tile that shows a
square, colored tower, pla-
ce one of your Victory Po-
int Cubes on the tower.
Building the Church
The church is made up of 9 pieces. If you choose to build part of the
Church, you must pay 7 gold to the bank. Then, draw the top tile from
the Church Tile stack and place it on the board.
The first player to build a Church Tile has an advantage: he draws the
two top Church Tiles from the stack, chooses one to play, and puts the ot-
her one on the bottom of the stack without revealing it to the other play-
ers. The first Church Tile played is always played on the church founda-
tion square, with the arrow pointing towards the compass.
The first Church Tile will also determine the 9 spaces that the finished
church will fill. All other Church Tiles, when built, must be placed in the
correct position with the arrow pointing “North.” The illustration of the
church in the upper left corner of the game board will help determine
where each Church Tile should be played. 
If a newly placed Church Tile lands on a Building Permit, the permit is
returned to the owner without compensation. If a Church Tile lands on a
square that is occupied by another building, that building—regardless of
its size—is removed. You may continue to place permits and buildings
on empty spaces in between Church Tiles already placed (even though
this may not always be a wise move due to the
high risk of other Church Tiles being played). 
3) PLACE 1 BUILDING PERMIT OR TAKE 2 GOLD
You may either take 2 Gold Cards from the bank, or you may place 1
of your Building Permits. If you choose to place a permit, you may put it
in any empty space in the row marked with the Trade Ship. When you
place a permit, you must pay the bank Gold Cards equal to the number
shown on the Building Permit.
If there are no empty
squares left in the row
where the ship is, you may
instead place a permit in
an empty space in either
adjacent row (above or
below). If those rows are
also full, you may only
place a permit if you pay Influence Cards (see below).
Important: Church Tiles may never be built over or be displaced!
Example: The yellow player pays 2 gold to build a City Wall Tile
 and receives an Influence Card. She builds a second City Wall
Tile , by paying 4 gold and places a Victory Point Cube on the
tower. 
Example: The yellow
player has the highest
numbered Building Per-
mit here. After she com-
pensates red 1 gold for
using his permit, she bu-
ilds a tavern in the mar-
ked area. In order to build
over the two buildings
owned by red and blue,
she must play 3 matching
Influence Cards. Red and
Blue must return their
buildings to the supply,
and take back their Victo-
ry Point Cubes.
Example: The red player places a permit with the value “2.” He
pays 2 gold to the bank and places the permit on one of the
three unoccupied squares in the row that is marked with the
Trade Ship.
Example: The yellow player places the
first Church Tile on the church founda-
tion square and marks the tile with a Vic-
tory Point Cube. This Church Tile deter-
mines the overall building area (red fra-
me) for the completed church. 
The red player builds the second Church
Tile, which leads to the removal of the ta-
vern building owned by blue. Blue places
the tavern back in the supply and retrie-
ves his Victory Point Cube.
THE SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each player rolls the dice. The highest roller starts the game. 
Your turn is divided into four phases, which you must follow in order:
1. Roll the dice and all players collect cards. 
2. Build up to 2 buildings.
3. Place 1 Building Permit or take 2 gold. 
4. Take 1 special action.
After you complete all 4 phases, the player to your left begins his turn.
1) ROLL THE DICE AND COLLECT CARDS
You begin your turn by rolling both dice and adding them together.
Place the Trade Ship on the sea space with the number matching your to-
tal roll. The ship marks one row of the city. 
The Trade Ship must always move after rolling the dice. If the total on
the dice show the same number as the space the ship is already on, you
instead move the ship exactly 2 spaces up or down the board.
Each player now has a chance to produce Gold and/or Influence
Cards. Check each building at least partially in the row marked by the
Trade Ship. Any building that has a gold icon showing produces 1 Gold
Card for that building’s owner. Any building that has an influence icon
produces 1 Influence Card for its owner.
If you roll a “7” the Trade Ship is instead treated as a pirate ship!
Look on page 5 under “Rolling a ‘7’” to see how pirates affect the game.
2) BUILD 1 OR 2 BUILDINGS
After Gold Cards and Influence Cards are collected, you may build up
to 2 items. There are three things you can build:
• Building (your own or a neutral building) 
• City Wall Tile 
• Church Tile 
You may also construct two different building projects on the same
turn (e.g., 1 City Wall Tile and 1 Church Tile).
Build Your Own or a Neutral Building 
a) In order to build a building, you will need a number of Buil-
ding Permits. 
The size of the building determines how many spaces it will cover. Bu-
ildings will cover 1, 2, 4, or 6 squares. If you want to build, you must
first point out which spaces you will build on.
Note: The location of the
Trade Ship does not affect
building. You may build
wherever you have Buil-
ding Permits.
b) Building
In order to place a buil-
ding, you will need to pay
the building costs. You
must turn in to the bank
the number of Gold Cards
shown in the bottom right
corner of the building tile you want to play. 
Then, remove all the Building Permits in the area where you will build.
Place your own permits back in your supply, and return any other per-
mits back to their owners (see below). 
Place the building tile on the game board, with the arrow on the tile
pointing “North” (towards the
compass on the board). 
If you build a neutral buil-
ding, there will be 1 or 2 victo-
ry point spaces on the upper
left side (with red flags). Place
one of your Victory Point Cubes
on each flag shown.
Note: You may only place
buildings inside the City
Walls. You may never build
over the Church building site
or any of the City Wall buil-
ding spaces.
c) You May Use Other Players’ Building Permits
You do not have to supply all of the Building Permits required to build
a building. You may also use the permits that belong to the other players.
The player who has the highest total value of Building Permits in a given
area has the right to build there. Add the numbers on the Building Per-
mits to find the total value.
In case of a tie, no player may build in that area. 
If you build over a space with another player’s Building Permit, you must
return that permit to them. In addition, you must compensate that player.
Pay him Gold Cards equal to the number shown on the permit. If you do
not have enough gold to compensate the other players, you may not place
the building.
d) Smaller Buildings Can be Built Over by Bigger Ones 
When you place a building, it may displace smaller buildings. Any
smaller building that is partially or completely covered by the new buil-
ding is removed from the board. 
If the removed building belongs to another player, it is returned to his
supply. If it is a neutral building, it is placed with the other neutral buil-
dings and any Victory Point Cubes are returned to their owners. 
If a starter building is removed in this way, the owner may be able to
rebuild it immediately for free (see “Workers’ Huts” on page 6). 
Example: The ship is on the space marked “3.” The red player
rolls the dice and the total is 3. So, he must move the ship 2 spa-
ces to the row marked “5.” All buildings in that row have a
chance to produce. Red has 2 buildings in that row, so he takes
1 Gold Card and 1 Influence Card. Blue gets an Influence Card
for her building, and green and yellow each receive 1 Gold Card.
Example: The red player can place a tavern in the area
shown, since there are 2 Building Permits in that area.
Example: A “4” Building Permit has a higher total value
than 3 permits with the numbers “0,” “1” and “2.”
You will work with the other players to build the city of Elasund. As a
developer, you will try to fit as many of your buildings into the open areas
of the city as possible. 
The available space is determined by the number of players, and is
marked with the City Gates.  (A 3-player game is shown here.)
In order to build a building, you must pay the required amount of
gold. You also need to have the right number of Building Permits (1,
2, or 3 depending on the size of the building).
 The red framed area shows a red and a yellow Building Permit. The
red player has the higher value permit and may build a building that co-
vers 4 squares. In this case the yellow building tile with the yellow huts
would need to be removed, since a bigger building can be built over
a smaller one.
Most buildings generate income. At the beginning of each turn, you
roll the dice and move the Trade Ship  to the row that matches the
number you rolled. Each building that is at least partially in that row may
produce Gold or Influence Cards, depending on the type of building.
You have four buildings with roofs that match your color. Only you can
build these buildings. In addition, there are a number of “neutral” buil-
dings that all players can build. When you build a neutral building, make
sure you mark it with one of your Victory Point Cubes.
You can use Influence Cards to place additional Buil-
ding Permits, move your Building Permits, or even remove a building that
is the same size as one you are building.
You can earn an Influence Card by building part of the City Wall. Some
City Wall Tiles let you build a tower, which is worth a victory point. 
Some spaces are marked with 1 or 2 windmills  These spaces
are called Trade Fields, and if you build here you will earn 1 or 2 Trade
Points. Trade Points allow you to move your disk up the Trade Point
track. Each Trade Point moves your disk one space on the track. 
When your disk reaches a space next to an empty flag space (spaces 3,
5, 7, 9, or 11), you may place a Victory Point Cube. 
If you are the first player to place all 10 of your Victory Point Cubes on
the board, you are the winner! 
Example: The red player
has the highest total value
of Building Permits in this
area. This majority of per-
mit values gives him the
right to build a trade offi-
ce here. He first compen-
sates the yellow and blue
players 2 Gold Cards each,
then pays 5 gold to the
bank. All players take their
Building Permits from that
area. Now, red positions
the building. The yellow
player's building is built
over, removed, and retur-
ned to her supply.
Elasund Rules Q5.qxd 02.09.2005 9:40 Uhr Seite 1

- 5 -
- 6 -
ELASUND GAME RULES
ELASUND GAME RULES
Years after fearless seafarers discovered and settled the island of Catan the population has grown significantly. Settlements have sprung up
across the island and on the coasts, and trade between them has become indispensable.
Catan needs a central trading site, so the Catanians have decided to build their first city. The ideal location would include a port, houses for
builders and merchants, warehouses, taverns and a big church in the center. They have named their new city “Elasund,” after their ancestral town
in their old homeland.
The Workers’ Huts
…are shown on both of your starter buildings (with the totem sculptu-
re). If one of your starter buildings is displaced by a bigger building, you
may immediately place it on any empty space of your choice. 
But… you may never place your starter buildings on Trade Fields or
on other players’ Building Permits. If there are no empty spaces, you may
not rebuild your starter building and it is removed from the game. 
If two players both have their starter buildings built over at the same ti-
me, they rebuild them in turn order. If you build over your own starter
building, you may rebuild yours first; then the other players (if any) may
rebuild their displaced starter buildings in clockwise order.
You may only continue your turn after all displaced starter buildings
have been rebuilt.
Running Out of Cards
It is possible that the bank will run out of cards. If there are not
enough cards in the bank to pay the full production for the turn, then no
one receives any of that type of card that turn.
In addition, if there are not enough Influence Cards to pay the produc-
tion, all players must discard half of their Influence Cards (rounded
down). These discards are reshuffled and create a new Influence Card
deck. 
The same process is used if there are not enough Gold Cards in the
bank to pay all the production. 
TIPS FOR NEW PLAYERS
• Early in the game, it is valuable to place buildings in as many diffe-
rent rows as you can (especially rows close to the middle of the bo-
ard), in order to have the greatest chance to produce gold and in-
fluence.
• Your buildings (“Shopkeepers”) only need 1 or 2 gold to build. You
should try to build these first, even though they might be built over
later in the game. This will get you more income quickly.
• It is usually best to build the large 6-space buildings when you have
a safe revenue stream, since they do not produce gold or influence.
• Always try to have Influence Cards on hand so you can react to attak-
ks from the other players. They also allow you to place a second Bu-
ilding Permit at just the right moment. 
• If you can be the first player to build a Church Tile you have a signi-
ficant advantage. You have an impact on the final building spaces of
the church and you also know the identity of the last Church Tile.
CREDITS
Game Design:
Klaus Teuber www.klausteuber.de
Licensor:
Catan GmbH
www.catan.com
Artwork:
Tanja Donner
Graphics: 
Fine Tuning
Development:
TM-Spiele
Copyright © 2005 Catan GmbH. Elasund, Catan, Catan Adventures, and
The Settlers of Catan are trademarks of Catan GmbH. All rights reserved.
MADE IN GERMANY
Published by MAYFAIR GAMES, INC., Skokie, IL USA. 
Web: www.mayfairgames.com
English Language Translation: Guido Teuber, William Niebling.
English Rules Development: Guido Teuber, William Niebling, S. Coleman Charl-
ton, Robert Carty, Will Niebling, Alex Yeager, Karl Roelofs, and Pete Fenlon.
English Production: Pete Fenlon.
Special Thanks: The designer would like to thank Benjamin, Claudia and Guido
Teuber, Emily Johnson-Teuber, Liam Teuber, Arnd Beenen, Reiner Müller, Wolfgang
Lüdtke, Fritz Gruber, Peter Neugebauer, Sebastian Rapp and Martha Igelspacher.
The designer and publishers also thank Peter Gustav Bartschat, Petra and Oliver
Sack, and Marc Ehrich.
Placing a Building Permit in the Row of Your Choice 
If you pay 2 matching Influence Cards (i.e., 2 blue, 2
green, or 2 yellow cards), you may instead place a permit in
the row of your choice.
4) TAKE ONE SPECIAL ACTION
At the end of your turn, you may choose to take 1 of 4
possible special actions. You are never forced to take a spe-
cial action, but you must pay Influence Cards in order to do
so (and possibly pay some gold as well). You may not take a special ac-
tion if you cannot pay the costs.
a) Move Your Own Building Permit
You may move one of your permits that is already on the board to any
empty space on the game board. 
Cost: 2 matching Influence Cards.
b) Upgrade Your Own Building Permit
You may replace one of your permits that is already on the board with
a higher value permit from your supply.
Take the old permit back to your supply, and place the new one on the
same space. 
Cost: 2 Influence Cards of the same color and gold equal to the diffe-
rence between the value of the permits.
c) Place a Building Permit on an Empty Space of Your Choice 
You may place a Building Permit from your supply onto any empty
square in the row of your choice. The location of the Trade Ship does not
affect this play.
Cost: 3 Influence Cards of different colors and gold equal to the value
of the permit. 
d) Take 2 Gold Cards
You may draw 2 Gold Cards from the gold supply.
Cost: 3 different colored Influence Cards.
THE END OF THE GAME
If it is your turn and you have all 10 of your Victory Point Cubes on the
board, the game ends and you are the winner!
RULES DETAILS
Rolling a “7”
When you roll a “7” you move the Trade Ship to the row of your choi-
ce (it may not be left on the same row where it was before you rolled the
dice). For this turn, the ship represents the pirates!
There is no income generated in that row. Instead, each player (inclu-
ding the player who moved the ship) must discard either an Influence or
Gold Card for each of his Victory Point Cubes in that row. 
If you do not have enough cards to pay the full amount, you just di-
scard all the cards you have, or lose nothing if you have no cards.
When you move the pirate, you may be able to claim a reward! You
may draw 1 random card from the cards discarded for each City Wall To-
wer you own (i.e., the City Wall Tiles with your Victory Point Cubes on
them). 
After the pirates attack, you may continue the rest of your turn as nor-
mal (e.g., you can build buildings, place a permit in the row marked
with the pirate ship as described on page 2, etc.).
The Trade Fields
The spaces next to the sea—and in a 3 or 4 player game
the spaces near the City Gates—are marked with windmills.
These are called “Trade Fields.”
If you place a building on a Trade Field, you will earn 1 (if it is along
the harbor) or 2 (if near the City Gates) Trade Points. Trade Points are
recorded on the Trade Track with your round disk.
Note: You do not earn any Trade Points from Church Tiles you
build on Trade Fields!
If your disk reaches (or passes) a space with victory point symbols (3,
5, 7, 9, or 11 Trade Points), you place one of your Victory Point Cubes
on one of the red flags next to that space on the track.
But, if you lose a building on a Trade Field, you must move your disk
down the Trade Point Track. If your disk moves below one of the victory
point spaces, then you also lose the victory point (return your cube to
your supply)!
THE COMPONENTS
• 1 Game Rules Booklet
• 1 Game Board 
• 44 Wooden Pieces:
— 40 Victory Point Cubes
— 4 round disks in 4 colors
• 2 Dice 
• 1 Trade Ship 
• 9 Church Tiles 
• 36 City Wall Tiles, 9 per color 
• 37 Buildings:
— 16 buildings in the player colors 
— 21 neutral buildings
• 90 Game Cards:
— 51 Gold Cards
— 39 Influence Cards
• 2 City Gates 
• 4 Turn Overview Cards in 4 player colors 
• 20 Building Permits in 4 colors
GAME SET-UP
The game board shows the site of the future city of Elasund. Most of
the board is an empty area, available for building. This area is surroun-
ded on three sides by the city wall building spaces, and on the fourth side
by the sea. In the middle there is a site where the city church will be con-
structed.
Determine the Building Area
The size of Elasund's building
area depends on the number of
players in the game. Before the ga-
me begins, you will mark the avai-
lable area with the two City Gate ti-
les. In a two-player game, place the
two City Gates on the City Wall buil-
ding spaces marked “2” (white arrow), in a three-player game place them
on the spaces marked “3” (grey arrow), and in a four-player game on the
building space marked “4” (black arrow). Position the City Gates so that
the blue arrows point towards the sea.
Take Your Playing Pieces
Choose a color and take the matching pieces in your color:
• 10 Victory Point Cubes
• 5 Building Permits
• 4 Buildings (Workers, Shopkeepers 
and Merchants)
• 1 Turn Overview Card
9 City Walls
Place your City Wall Tiles in a stack. Pla-
ce the tile with the number “9”
printed on the back at the bottom,
with the other tiles stacked on top
of it in descending order of num-
bers (8-1).
1 Round Disk
Take the round disk in
your color and place it
on the “0” space of the
Trade Point track on the
left side of the game board.
Place Starting Building Tiles
You begin the game with two “starter” bu-
ildings. Two of your building tiles show a
small colored totem sculpture. Place your
starter buildings on the spaces on the board
that are marked in your color.
The arrow on each tile must point towards
the compass (“North”) marked on the ga-
me board.
Church Tiles
Shuffle the 9 purple Church Tiles and pla-
ce them face down in a stack next to the illustration of the church. 
Place the Neutral Buildings
Sort the neutral buildings by type and pla-
ce them in stacks next to the game board. 
Hint: You may find it easier if you align the buil-
dings so all the arrows point “North.”
Note: The big buildings “Town Hall,” “Count’s Estate” and “Trade Offi-
ce” have different illustrations; but they can be placed in
one stack, for they all have the sa-
me function.
Shuffle the Influence Cards
and place them face down in a stack next to
the game board. 
Place the Gold Cards face up next to the In-
fluence Card stack. 
Take 3 Gold and 1 Influence card for your starting
capital. Hold your cards in your hand, concealing
them from the other players. 
Place the Trade Ship and the Dice next to
the game board. 
Market Stands 
Trade Office, Count’s
Estate, Town Hall
Merchant
Tavern
Well
Example: The green player rolls a “7” and chooses to move the
pirate to row 5. The red player has 3 Victory Point Cubes in the
row, so he must discard 3 cards. Blue also has a Victory Point
Cube in this row, so she must discard 1 card.
Example: The red player has 5 Trade Points and can place 2
Victory Point Cubes.  The blue player displaces a red building.
 Red loses a Trade Point and must remove his Victory Point
Cube.  Blue gains 2 Trade Points and may place 1 Victory Po-
int Cube.
Would
you like
to learn
how to play
“Elasund” 
right away? 
Then visit
www.profeasy.com.
—Prof. Easy
“Elasund: The First City” is the se-
cond offering in the “Catan Adventu-
res” game series. The setting and the-
mes are based on the vision of Klaus
Teuber and the novel “The Settlers of
Catan,” written by Rebecca Gablé and
set in a time and place familiar to the
Atlantic adventurers of the year 850.
Look for an English-language transla-
tion of this splendid tale in your local
bookshop soon.
“Elasund” is the name of a small village on the Norwegian co-
ast in Rebecca Gable's novel “The Settlers of Catan.” The Cat-
anians set sail to their new homeland from that village. I
am very grateful to Mrs. Gable for permitting me to use the
“Elasund” name for this game. 
— Klaus Teuber, July 2005
Check out www.catanonline.com and see how you can
play “The Settlers of Catan” online with
friends and other Catan enthusiasts from
around the world. Download the computer
game for challenging solo play at home or
on the go.
Candamir:
The First Settlers®
Are you curious to see what Catan
was like in the earliest days of the
settlers?
With Candamir you can explore
Catan in those exciting days. You
will take on the role of a new settler
trying to make a name for yourself
in a small community. At first you
will have little more than your own two
hands, but as you overcome challenges
and adventures your skills will grow and
you can take your place among equals
in the Catan community.
Or you can experience the whole story
of Catan with the award-winning
boardgame The Settlers of Catan.
Watch the development of the entire island unfold before you as you use
trade, development, and expansion to secure your place among the leaders
of the island.
Elasund Rules Q5.qxd 02.09.2005 9:53 Uhr Seite 4