™

I know I will be called insane for what I 
am about to do. But you must believe me when 
I tell you that this museum is alive, infected 
with an ancient evil. Once these diabolical 
forces become manifest, they will reduce 
humanity to cinders. Night after night, I 
have scoured the exhibits and relics, fighting 
to keep the horrors at bay and learning what 
I can. I believe I have discovered a way to 
prevent our doom. Ancient cultures crafted a 
strange symbol to drive off these creatures.
They called it the Elder Sign. 
Overview 
In Elder Sign, 1 to 8 players take on the role of investigators 
struggling to combat one of the Ancient Ones—vast, powerful 
creatures that dwell in the space between dimensions.
The investigators face adventures in and around the museum 
where the Ancient One’s imminent return has been causing 
a number of bizarre events. Through these adventures, the 
investigators acquire rewards. The most prized resource that 
can be gained is an Elder Sign, which is used to seal away the 
Ancient One and win the game.
But the clock is always ticking and each night at midnight, the 
Ancient One gets closer to waking up in our world and laying 
waste to all of humanity.
Object of the Game
The object of Elder Sign is to seal the Ancient One away before 
it awakens or, failing that, send the creature back where it came 
from in a last ditch, nearly hopeless final battle.
To seal away the Ancient One, the investigators must 
accumulate the number of Elder Signs shown on the Ancient 
One’s card before its Doom track fills up and it awakens.
If the Ancient One awakens, the investigators have one last 
chance to drive the creature away. Players should be warned, 
however, that combat against the Ancient One almost always 
ends in failure and death.
Components
• This Rulebook
• Clock
• Cardboard Clock Hand
• 1 Plastic Connector (for the clock hand)
• 6 Green Dice
• 1 Yellow Die
• 1 Red Die
• 1 Entrance Reference Sheet
• 80 Oversized Cards consisting of:
-- 16 Investigator Cards
-- 8 Ancient One Cards
-- 48 Adventure Cards
-- 8 Other World Adventure Cards
• 76 Small Cards consisting of:
-- 12 Common Item Cards
-- 12 Unique Item Cards
-- 12 Spell Cards
-- 8 Ally Cards
-- 32 Mythos Cards
• 144 Cardboard Tokens and Markers consisting of:
-- 16 Investigator Markers
-- 30 Sanity Tokens
-- 30 Stamina Tokens
-- 15 Clue Tokens
-- 22 Monster Markers
-- 5 Mask Monster Markers
-- 12 Doom Tokens
-- 17 Elder Sign Tokens
Component Descriptions
This following sections briefly describe and identify the 
different components of Elder Sign. 
Clock, Clock Hand, and Plastic Connector
The Clock is used to track the passage 
of time in the game and determines 
when Mythos cards are drawn. The 
clock hand is attached to the clock 
using the plastic connector. 

Entrance Reference Sheet
This sheet lists a number of abilities that 
players can use instead of attempting to 
resolve an Adventure card during their turn.
Dice
The 6 green dice are usually rolled to 
complete tasks and resolve Adventure cards. 
The yellow die can produce better results 
than a green die and is generally rolled when 
a player spends a Common Item. The red die 
can produce better results than a green die or the yellow die and 
is generally rolled when a player spends a Unique Item. 
Ancient One Cards
These cards depict the different 
Ancient Ones that the investigators 
may be pitted against. 
Investigator Cards and Markers 
These cards depict the different 
investigators that players may 
play. Each investigator card has 
a corresponding Investigator 
marker that is used to track that 
investigator’s current location. 
Adventure Cards
These cards depict the various places and 
events in the museum that investigators must 
explore to stop the Ancient One.
Other World Adventure Cards 
These are special Adventure cards 
that represent other dimensions that 
investigators explore when a gate opens in 
the museum.
Common Item, Unique Item, and Spell Cards 
These cards represent useful items and spells that can assist 
investigators in completing adventures. 
Ally Cards 
Ally cards represent helpful people that the 
investigators can recruit to help them.
Mythos Cards 
Every time the clock strikes midnight, players 
draw and resolve 1 Mythos card. These cards 
represent the advance of the Ancient One toward 
reawakening in our world and strange events 
taking place in the museum.
Sanity and Stamina Tokens 
The blue Sanity and red Stamina tokens are used 
to track the current mental and physical health 
of the investigators. 
Clue Tokens 
Clue tokens may be spent during a player’s turn to 
re-roll one or more dice. 
Monster Markers 
Monster markers represent various 
monsters that may appear and interfere 
with the investigators during the game.
Mask Monster Markers
Mask Monster markers represent special 
monsters that are only used when 
Nyarlathotep is the Ancient One. 
Doom Tokens
These tokens are used to track how close the Ancient 
One is to breaking through into our world.
Elder Sign Tokens
These tokens are used to track how many elder 
signs have been colected by investigators to seal the 
Ancient One away.
Preparing for the First Game
Before playing Elder Sign for the first time, carefully punch out 
the cardboard components, making sure to keep them away 
from small children and animals.
Then, take the cardboard clock, clock 
hand, and plastic connector and assemble 
it as shown at right. Press tightly together!
Common Items
Unique Items
Spells

Anatomy of an Ancient One Card
1.	 Name: The horrid name of the Ancient One.
2.	 Doom Track: Doom tokens are placed here 
throughout the game. When each space has a token on 
it, the Ancient One awakens.
3.	 Elder Sign Limit: The number of Elder Signs 
necessary to defeat the Ancient One.
4.	 Special Ability: A unique game effect that applies 
to any game in which this Ancient One is used.
5.	 Attack: The game effect that occurs in place of 
drawing a Mythos card when battling the Ancient One.
6.	 Combat Task: The task necessary to complete to 
remove 1 Doom token when battling the Ancient One.
Anatomy of an Investigator Card
1.	 Name: The name of the investigator.
2.	 Maximum Sanity: The amount of Sanity the 
investigator begins with. An investigator may never 
have more Sanity than his maximum.
3.	 Maximum Stamina: The amount of Stamina the 
investigator begins with. An investigator may never 
have more Stamina than his maximum.
4.	 Special Ability: A unique ability that may be used 
by the player who is using this investigator.
5.	 Starting Items: A list of the items the investigator 
starts the game with. (See page 8 for a guide to 
interpreting the icons.)

Setup
Follow these steps to prepare to play Elder Sign.
1.	 Set Up Clock and Entrance: Place the Clock in the center of 
the table, setting the clock hand to XII (midnight). Then place 
the Entrance reference sheet next to it. Place the six green dice, 
the red die, and the yellow die near the clock.
2.	 Choose Ancient One: Select an Ancient One card (at random, 
or you may select if all players agree) and place it next to the 
clock.
3.	 Prepare Monster Cup: Place the Monster markers in the box 
lid or another opaque container that they may be drawn from at 
random. This container is known as the monster cup.
If Nyarlathotep is the Ancient One, add the Mask Monster markers 
(the Monster markers with a mask symbol on them) to the monster 
cup. Otherwise, set the Mask Monster markers aside and do not 
use them during the game.
4.	 Set Up Adventures: Shuffle the Adventure deck (not 
including the Other World Adventure cards) and deal six cards 
faceup below the Clock and Entrance reference sheet in two rows 
of three. Then shuffle the Other World Adventure deck. Place 
both decks near the rows of faceup adventures.
If an Adventure card with a locked die icon appears during 
set up, place the appropriate die on that card. (See “Cards and 
Markers with a Locked Die Icon” on page 11.)
5.	 Set Up Items and Clues: Place all the Clue tokens together to 
the side of the Adventure cards. Then shuffle the Common Item, 
Unique Item, Spell, and Ally cards into their individual decks 
and place them next to the Clue tokens. 
6.	 Distribute Investigators: Players may choose to either 
have each player select an Investigator card or to have each 
player receive one at random. Each player then takes the 
corresponding Investigator marker, the number of Stamina and 
Sanity tokens shown on his Investigator card, as well as any 
item cards and Clue tokens shown on his Investigator card. 
Place all Investigator markers being used by players on the 
Entrance reference sheet. This is where the investigators begin 
the game (but do not have to remain there for their first turn).
7.	 Choose First Player: Select one player (either at random or 
by any method that all players agree upon) to be the first player. 
8.	 Resolve Initial Mythos Card: The first player shuffles the 
Mythos deck and places it next to the Ancient One card. He then 
draws one Mythos card and resolves it (see “Resolving Mythos 
Cards” on page 9).
If a Mythos card with a locked die icon appears during set up, 
place the appropriate die on that card. (See “Cards and Markers 
with a Locked Die Icon” on page 11.)
Player Turn Overview 
Elder Sign is played over a number of turns, starting with 
the first player and continuing clockwise around the table. 
The player who is currently taking his turn is referred to as 
the active player. During each player’s turn he performs the 
following steps:
1.	 Move: The active player moves his Investigator marker to 
either an Adventure card or the Entrance reference sheet.
2.	 Either Resolve an Adventure or Wait at the Entrance: 
The active player either rolls dice to complete the tasks on the 
Adventure card he is on or, if he is instead on the Entrance 
reference sheet, performs one of the activities listed on the sheet.
3.	 Advance the Clock: The active player moves the clock hand 
on the Clock and each time the Clock returns to midnight, he 
draws and resolves a Mythos card.
The following sections describe each step in more detail:
Move 
The active player takes his Investigator marker and places 
it on either one of the faceup Adventure cards in play or on 
the Entrance reference sheet. If he places his marker on an 
Adventure card, the player proceeds to Attempt to Resolve 
an Adventure below. If the player places his marker on the 
Entrance reference sheet, he proceeds to Wait at the Entrance 
instead. (See “Wait at the Entrance” on page 8 for more details.)
Attempt to Resolve an Adventure 
If the active player’s Investigator marker is on an Adventure 
card, he rolls the 6 green dice in an attempt to complete one of 
the tasks on that Adventure card. Note that investigators may 
also add a yellow die, a red die, or both to their roll if instructed 
to do so by a game effect, for example as a result of spending a 
Common Item or a Unique Item.
If a die is locked (see “Cards and Markers with a Locked Die 
Icon” on page 11), that die cannot be used to attempt to resolve 
an Adventure card. This may result in less than 6 green dice 
being rolled.
Tasks
Each Adventure card features one or more horizontal rows of 
symbols. Each of these rows is a task that must be completed in 
order resolve the Adventure card.
An example of a task.

Each symbol represents a requirement necessary to complete 
the task:
Rolling the Dice 
Unless specified by another game effect, the active player rolls 
6 green dice at the start of the Resolve an Adventure step. The 
different sides on the green dice are:
The yellow die is typically rolled after a player 
spends a Common Item (see “Using Items & 
Spells” on page 9 for more details). It is identical 
to a green die except that it has a 4 investigation 
side instead of a terror side.
The red die is typically rolled after a player 
spends a Unique Item (see “Using Items & Spells” 
on page 9 for more details). It is identical to 
the yellow die except that it has a wildcard side 
instead of a 1 investigation side. A wildcard 
result may be used as a 1 investigation, a lore, 
a peril, or a terror result.
After rolling the dice, the player compares the results to the 
requirements listed for each task on the Adventure card his 
Investigator marker is on. If the player is able and willing to 
meet all of the requirements for a single task, he completes 
that task. If the player cannot or does not wish to meet the 
requirements of at least one of the tasks on the Adventure card, 
he fails to complete a task. 
Completing a Task
When an investigator completes a task, for each of its 
requirements that corresponds to a specific die result, 
the player places a die with that result on top of the 
corresponding requirement. A die placed on a requirement 
may not be rolled again during this Resolve an Adventure Card 
step. If the task requires the player to advance the Clock, lose 
Sanity, or lose Stamina, he does so at this time.
In the case of investigation results, a player may need to place 
more than one die on the card to meet the task’s requirements. 
Place extra dice next to the others that were used to complete 
Note that a player may only complete a single task with each roll 
of the dice, even if the results allow him to meet the requirements 
1 Investigation
2 Investigations
3 Investigations
A lore die result.
A number of investigation die results equal to or 
greater than the number indicated on the symbol.
A terror die result.
A peril die result
been met, the active player must advance the Clock 
to complete the task (see “Advance the Clock” on 
page 9 for more details).
been met, the active player modifies his Stamina by 
the number indicated on the symbol to complete 
been met, the active player modifies his Sanity by 
the number indicated on the symbol to complete 
A split die result. Either of the results shown will 
meet this requirement.
As soon as this requirement appears in play on 
a Monster marker, an Adventure card, or a Mythos 
card, a die of the corresponding color is locked 
(see “Cards and Markers with a Locked Die Icon” on 
page 11 for more details).
Lore
Peril
Terror
4 Investigations
Wildcard

of 2 or more tasks combined. A player may not complete a task if 
the requirements will reduce his Sanity or Stamina to 0 or less.
After a player completes a task, if there are more tasks on the 
Adventure card to complete, he takes all of the remaining dice—
that is, all of the dice he just rolled that have not been placed on 
the completed task—and re-rolls them. He then uses the result to 
attempt to complete another task.
Once all tasks on the Adventure card have been completed, the 
investigator has successfully resolved the Adventure card and 
performs each of the following steps in order:
1.	 Receive the rewards listed on the bottom of the card (see 
“Rewards and Penalties” on page 8).
2.	 Move all Investigator markers on the card to the Entrance 
reference sheet.
3.	 Remove all the dice from the resolved Adventure card and 
take the card. The player may spend the card later as a Trophy 
(see “Spending Trophies” on page 9).
4.	 Draw a new Adventure card to replace the one just resolved.
The player then moves to the Advance the Clock step of his turn.
Failing to Complete a Task
When a player fails to complete a task and at least one of the 
rolled dice produced a terror result, he resolves all Terror 
effects on the Adventure card as well as any on the Mythos card 
currently in play (see “Resolving Mythos Cards” on page 9).
Regardless of whether or not the active player resolved any 
Terror effects, he must then do one of the following:
1.	 Attempt again to complete a task.
2.	 Fail to resolve the Adventure card.
If the active player attempts again to complete a task, he chooses 
1 of the dice from his previous attempt and sets it aside. It may 
not be rolled again during this Resolve an Adventure Card step.
If he wishes, he may then choose 1 other die from the previous 
attempt to use for focusing by placing it on his own Investigator 
marker or for assisting by placing it on the Investigator marker 
of another player on the same Adventure card (see “Focusing 
and Assisting” on page 10).
Finally, he takes all of the remaining dice from the previous 
attempt and re-rolls them to again attempt to complete a task.
If a player cannot possibly complete any of the remaining 
tasks on the Adventure card with the dice he can roll, he 
automatically fails to resolve the Adventure card.
When a player fails an Adventure card, he suffers the card’s 
penalties (see “Rewards and Penalties” on the next page for 
more details) and removes all dice from the card except 
those that are on a locked die icon. The player then 
proceeds to the Advance the Clock step of his turn.
An example of a Terror effect.
Example of Completing a Task
At the start of his Resolve an Adventure Card 
step, a player rolls the 6 green dice and gets the 
following results:
He compares this to the tasks on the adventure card.
With these results, the player may complete either 
task. He chooses the second task, placing the dice on 
top of the corresponding requirements.
Note that even though the task only required 3 
investigation results, it was necessary for the 
investigator to use a total of 4 investigation 
results to meet the task’s requirements. The extra 
investigation result is disregarded. The player may 
then re-roll the remaining 3 green dice to try to 
complete the other task.

Rewards and Penalties 
When a player successfully resolves an Adventure card, he 
receives the rewards shown in the lower right green area of 
the card. When he fails an Adventure card, he suffers the 
penalties shown in the lower left red area of the card. Note 
that sometimes a reward may not be to a player’s benefit or a 
penalty may sometimes help him. Rewards and penalties may 
include:
Common Item: For each of these icons, draw 1 Common 
Item from the Common Item deck.
Unique Item: For each of these icons, draw 1 Unique Item 
from the Unique Item deck.
Spell: For each of these icons, draw 1 Spell from the Spell 
deck.
Clue: For each of these icons, gain 1 Clue token.
Ally: For each of these icons, draw 1 Ally from the Ally 
deck.
Elder Sign: For each of these icons, place 1 Elder Sign token 
next to the Ancient One card. If the total number of Elder 
Sign tokens next to the card is equal to or greater than the 
Ancient One’s Elder Sign Limit (see “Anatomy of an Ancient 
One Card” on page 4), the investigators win the game.
Gate: For each of these icons, draw 1 Other World Adventure 
card (see “Other Worlds” below) and place it below the six 
normal Adventure cards.
Sanity: For each of these icons, lose 1 Sanity.
Stamina: For each of these icons, lose 1 Stamina.
Monster: For each of these icons, a monster appears.
Doom: For each of these icons, add a Doom token to the 
Doom track (see “The Doom Track” on page 11).
Other Worlds 
Other World Adventure cards are difficult but rewarding 
adventures that only enter play as a result of gaining a gate 
reward. When an Other World Adventure enters play, it 
is placed below the six normal Adventure cards. Any 
number of Other World Adventure cards may be in 
play at once, but they are not replaced when they 
are resolved. 
Order of Tasks
Typically players can complete tasks on Adventure cards in any 
order. The only exception is when an Adventure card has an arrow 
on its left side. This arrow indicates that the player must complete 
the tasks in order, starting at the top and working down. Players 
may not complete a task for this adventure unless they have 
completed the previous task.
Wait at the Entrance 
If the active player’s investigator marker is on the Entrance 
after the Move step, he chooses 1 of the 3 activities listed on 
the Entrance reference sheet—receive first aid, search the lost & 
found, or buy a souvenir—and executes that ability.
Receive First Aid: The player chooses to do one (and only one) 
of the following: regain 1 Stamina and 1 Sanity for free, pay 2 
trophies to regain all of his Stamina or Sanity, or pay 4 trophies to 
regain all of both his Stamina and Sanity.
Search the Lost & Found: The player rolls a green die, consults 
the chart on the Entrance, and then resolves the effect of the 
die’s result according to the chart.
Buy a Souvenir: The player purchases 1 (and only 1) of the 
listed objects, spending trophies to pay for it. (See “Spending 
and Losing Trophies” below.)
Spending and Losing Trophies
When a player successfully resolves Adventure cards or 
completes the tasks on Monster markers, he typically receives 
these cards or markers and may later spend them as trophies 
(for example when executing the buy a souvenir ability on the 
Entrance reference sheet). The amount of trophies an Adventure 
card or Monster marker is worth is printed on the individual 
card or marker.
Detail of an Adventure card 
worth 2 trophies.
Detail of a Monster marker 
worth 1 trophy.
An example of penalties.
An example of rewards.
An example of an arrow on an Adventure card.

Note a situation may arise in which an investigator either wishes 
to spend or must lose only 1 trophy but does not have an 
Adventure card or Monster marker worth less than 2 trophies. 
Similarly he either may wish to spend or must lose only 2 
trophies but not have an Adventure card or Monster marker 
worth less than 3 trophies. In such cases, he may overspend 
to make his purchase or meet the requirement, but does not 
receive any benefit for any extra trophies he spent or lost.
Advance the Clock 
Then the active player advances the Clock. To do this, he turns 
the clock hand clockwise 3 hours. So, if the hand was on the XII, 
the active player would turn it until it reached the III. Note that 
the clock hand will only ever be on III, VI, IX, or XII.
If the active player advances the Clock to XII (midnight) (or if he 
advanced the Clock to midnight at any point during his turn), he 
now resolves all game effects in play that say “At Midnight.” He 
then draws a new Mythos card and resolves it, placing it next to 
the Mythos deck on top of any previous Mythos cards that were 
in play. Mythos cards are only drawn and resolved on turns in 
which the Clock has advanced to midnight.
Resolving Mythos Cards
Each Mythos card is comprised of two parts, the immediate effect 
and the lingering effect. The immediate effect, which is on the 
upper half of the card, is an effect that takes place as soon as 
the card is drawn, typically requiring the active player to add a 
Doom token to the Doom track or draw a Monster marker (see 
“Monsters” on page 11).
The lingering effect, which is on the lower half of the card, 
provides special rules which either apply to the game until the 
next Mythos card is drawn or take effect the next time a player 
advances the clock to midnight and other At Midnight effects 
are resolved.
Example: After advancing the Clock to 
midnight, the active player resolves all 
At Midnight effects and then draws the 
Mythos card shown at left. He first resolves 
the immediate effect on the top half of 
the card, drawing and placing a Monster 
marker (see “Monsters” on page 10 for 
more information).
The lingering effect, in this case, will 
take effect the next time that At Midnight 
effects are resolved, at which point all 
investigators will lose 2 Stamina.
After completing the Advancing the Clock step, the active player’s 
turn is concluded and the player to his left begins his turn.
Other Rules
The following sections describe additional rules that apply to 
games of Elder Sign.
Using Items & Spells
A player may spend 1 or more Common Items, Unique Items, 
or Spells before any roll while his Investigator marker is on 
an Adventure card. Whenever an item is spent or discarded it 
is placed facedown on the bottom of its corresponding deck. 
Although most Common Items, Unique Items and Spells are 
similar to other cards of the same type, some have special 
abilities which are described on their individual cards.
Common Item: Most Common Items allow a player to spend the 
item in order to add the yellow die to his dice pool, indicated by 
the following icon:
Unique Item: Most Unique Items allow a player to spend the 
item in order to add the red die to his dice pool, indicated by 
the following icon:
Each die added by either a Common or Unique Item remains in 
the pool until it is set aside after failing to complete a task or it 
is used to complete a task. In any event, the die is removed from 
the dice pool at the end of the active player’s turn.
Spell: Most Spells allow a player to place the spell card next to the 
play area immediately before any roll of the dice. Then, after the 
player rolls, he chooses one of the dice and, without changing the 
die’s result, places it on the Spell card on the following icon:
While a die is on the Spell card, it is not re-rolled when the 
active player tries to complete a task, but the die’s result may 
be used to meet a task’s requirement. Only one die may be 
placed on a Spell card (unless otherwise indicated on the 
card) and a die on this card remains on it until it is used 
to complete a task.

A die may remain on a Spell card for any number of turns 
before being used. The active player may always use a die on a 
Spell card to complete a task regardless of who played the Spell.
Once all dice on the card have been used to complete a task, 
the Spell card is then returned face down to the bottom of the 
Spell deck.
Using Allies 
Allies each have a different ability, described on their card. See 
the individual Ally cards for further information.
Using Clues 
After any roll to complete a task, a player may spend one of his 
Clue tokens to re-roll any or all of the dice in his dice pool before 
determining if he has completed any tasks on the Adventure 
card. A player may spend clues to re-roll a given roll any number 
of times. Spent Clue tokens are returned to the pool of tokens.
Focusing and Assisting
After making a die roll that fails to complete a task, a player may 
choose to either focus or use another investigator on the same 
Adventure card to assist him.
In either case, the active player chooses one die from his 
roll and, without changing the die’s result, places it on an 
Investigator marker. In the case of focusing, the active player 
places the die on his own Investigator marker. In the case of 
assisting, the active player places the die on an Investigator 
marker that is on the same Adventure card. (Note that the 
active player still must set aside a different die due to failing to 
complete a task. See “Completing a Task” on page 6.)
In either case, this die is not re-rolled when the player tries 
again to complete a task, but the die’s result may be used to 
meet a task’s requirement. An investigator marker may only 
have 1 die placed on it and the die remains there until it is used 
to complete a task or until the end of the active player’s turn. 
A player may not use focusing or assisting to place a die on an 
Investigator marker that already has a die on it.
A player may never place more than one die per roll on an 
Investigator marker using any combination of focusing and 
assisting. If the active player is unable or unwilling to complete 
the tasks on his Adventure card, any investigators who were 
assisting (that is, investigators who were not the active player 
but who had a die on their Investigator marker) must choose to 
either lose 1 Sanity or lose 1 Stamina.
Monsters 
Whenever a game effect states “a monster appears,” the active 
player draws a Monster marker at random from the monster 
cup, and places the marker on top of a monster task, which is a 
task on an Adventure card surrounded completely or in part by 
a white border.
An empty monster task is one that has no requirements within 
the white border. When a Monster marker is placed on an empty 
monster task, it replaces the task completely on the Adventure 
card and is treated as another task that must be completed in 
order to resolve the Adventure card. (Note: an empty monster 
task that does not have a Monster marker on it is disregarded 
when resolving the adventure card.)
A total monster task is one that has all of its requirements 
surrounded by the white border. When a Monster marker is 
placed on a total monster task, it replaces the task completely 
on the Adventure card and is treated as another task that must 
be completed in order to resolve the Adventure card.
A partial monster task is one that has some requirements that 
are not surrounded by the white border, the monster marker 
is placed on top of only those requirements that are within the 
border, and the requirements on the monster marker are added 
to those requirements that are not covered by the marker in 
order to complete the task.
An empty monster task.
A Monster marker placed on 
an empty monster task.
A total monster task.
A Monster marker placed on a 
total monster task.
A partial monster task.
A Monster marker placed on a 
partial monster task.

If there are multiple monster tasks in play, the active player 
decides which one to place the Monster marker on. If there 
are no monster tasks in play not already covered by a Monster 
marker, the active player chooses any 1 Adventure card and 
places the Monster marker under the bottom task of the card, 
adding an additional task to the Adventure card.
Once an investigator resolves an Adventure card with a Monster 
marker on it, he removes all dice from the marker and takes it 
as well as the Adventure card and gains any reward mentioned 
on the back of the marker.
If a player successfully completed one or more tasks on a 
Monster marker (or a task which includes a Monster marker, as 
in the case of a partial monster task) before failing to resolve 
the Adventure card it is on, he still gains the Monster marker, 
removing all dice from the marker, taking it, and gaining any 
reward mentioned on the back of the marker. He does this before 
suffering the penalties for failing to resolve the Adventure card.
Cards and Markers with a Locked Die Icon
Some Adventure cards, Mythos cards, and Monster markers 
feature a locked die icon. When one of these icons appears, 
the active player must immediately place 1 die of the 
corresponding color on top of that icon. In the case of green 
dice, the active player chooses which die is placed on the locked 
die icon. He must place the die on that icon even if the die was 
on a Spell card or Investigator marker, but he cannot move a 
die that is already locked on another card or marker. Until that 
Adventure card is resolved, the Mythos card is no longer in 
effect, or the task on that Monster marker is complete, that die 
may not be added to die rolls and its result may not be used to 
complete tasks.
Being Devoured 
If an investigator’s Sanity, Stamina, or both are reduced to 0 or 
less, he is devoured. When an investigator is devoured, add 1 
Doom token to the Doom track and return the Investigator card 
and marker to the box. Then take all of his items, Allies, and 
any Adventure cards he claimed as trophies and return them 
facedown to the bottoms of their corresponding decks. Return 
any Monster markers he claimed as trophies back to monster 
cup and return his Clue tokens back to the pool of Clue tokens.
The player then receives a new investigator (one that has not been 
previously devoured during this game) as described in step 6 of 
setup on page 4, including starting items, etc. The new investigator 
starts at full Sanity and Stamina, and the player may start using 
the new investigator on his next turn. If the active player’s 
investigator is devoured, the player must still perform the Advance 
the Clock step of his turn (but no other steps).
If there are no investigators left to choose from, the player is 
out of the game, but may still win if the remaining investigator 
collect enough elder signs to win or defeat the ancient one after 
it has awakened.
The Doom Track
When players are instructed to add a Doom token to the Doom 
track, the active player places a Doom token on the first space 
on the Doom track that does not already have a token on it. 
Tokens are placed starting in the top left corner of the Doom 
track, filling each row to the right.
When a Doom token is placed on a space 
with a monster icon, a monster appears (see 
“Monsters” on page 11). When the last space on 
the Doom track has a token placed on it, the 
Ancient One awakens and the investigators 
must confront the horrible creature in combat.
Battling an Ancient One
Once a Doom token is placed on the last space on the Doom track, 
the Ancient One immediately awakens. (If the final Doom token is 
placed as result of an investigator receiving rewards or penalties, 
he receives all of the rewards or penalties before the Ancient One 
awakens.) If a game effect awakens the Ancient One before the 
Doom track is full, Doom tokens are placed on all the remaining 
empty spaces on the Doom track.
Immediately after the Ancient One awakes (and his Doom track 
has been filled), all Investigator markers are moved to the 
Ancient One card. Players cannot move their Investigator markers 
from this card for the rest of the game unless their investigator 
is devoured. (Note that once the Ancient One awakens, disregard 
the lingering effect of the most recent Mythos card.)
If the Ancient One awoke at any point during the active player’s 
turn other than the Advance the Clock step, the active player 
proceeds immediately to the Advance the Clock step.
A red locked die icon 
on an Adventure card.
A green locked die icon 
on a Monster marker.
A monster icon 
on the doom 
track.

As soon as the Ancient One is awake, player’s turns no longer 
consist of the same steps as previously in the game. Instead, 
each player does the following in order on his turn:
1.	 Attack the Ancient One: The active player rolls dice to 
complete the Ancient One’s combat task to remove a Doom 
token from the Doom track.
2.	 Advance the Clock: The active player moves the clock hand 
on the Clock and each time the Clock returns to midnight, the 
players resolve the Ancient One’s attack. 
During the Attack the Ancient One step, players roll dice as they 
did during the Resolve an Adventure Card step. Each Ancient 
One has a Combat Task printed on its card. Each time the active 
investigator completes this task, remove a Doom token from the 
Doom track. Investigators may complete the task any number of 
times during the Attack the Ancient One step (but only once for 
each time they roll the dice).
If an investigator cannot complete the task, he must either set 
one die aside and attempt again to complete the combat task 
or fail to remove a Doom token. Investigators may not focus or 
assist while battling an Ancient One but may spend Common 
Items, Unique Items, and Spells. When a player fails to remove a 
Doom token, he does not suffer any penalties, but simply moves 
on to the Advance the Clock step of his turn.
The Clock advances as normal while battling the Ancient One. 
However, instead of drawing a Mythos card when the Clock 
strikes midnight, players must resolve the Ancient One’s attack 
listed on its card. Any player whose investigator is devoured 
during the battle is out of the game, but may still win if other 
investigators defeat the Ancient One. If all investigators have 
been devoured, the players lose the game.
Example: During the Advance 
the Clock step after the 
Ancient One has awoken, the 
active player advances the 
Clock to midnight. In this case, 
each investigator must then 
reduce either his maximum 
Sanity or his maximum 
Stamina by 1. The active player then adds a Doom token to the 
Doom track. If the Doom track is already full, he does not add 
any additional Doom tokens.
Ending the Game
All investigators, including any who have been devoured the 
final battle, win the game if they have collected a number of 
Elder Signs equal to or greater than the Elder Sign Limit printed 
on the Ancient One card or if they have removed the final Doom 
token from the Doom track while battling the Ancient One. The 
investigators lose if all investigators are devoured while Battling 
the Ancient One.
Credits 
Game Design: Richard Launius and Kevin Wilson
Producers: Adam Sadler and Tim Uren
Editing & Proofreading: Benjamin Marshalkowski
Graphic Design: Dallas Mehlhoff
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Cover Illustration: Anders Finér
Playtesters: David Gagner, Sally Hopper, Kyle Hough, Adam 
Sadler, Brady Sadler, Christopher Seefeld
Production Management: Eric Knight
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
© 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved. No part of 
this product may be reproduced without specific permission. Elder 
Sign, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo 
are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games 
is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 
55113, USA, and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain 
this information for your records. Actual components may vary from 
those shown. Made in China.
www.FantasyFlightGames.com