Rulebook

A Conspiracy Revealed 
Harrigan ran his bandaged hand across the map on the hotel 
room’s wall. Dozens of documents and scraps of paper from all 
over the world were pinned to their corresponding locations, 
interconnected by a complex web of colored string. He followed a 
red string from the transcribed testimony of a lunatic in Arkham 
to a pencil rubbing of some pictographs he found in the Amazon. 
From there, he traced a blue thread to a page torn from the journal 
of that astronomer who was murdered in Sydney.
But the big picture still wasn’t emerging. Something was distracting 
him. What was it? The vendor at the train station had a tattoo 
on the back of his hand. Maybe that was it. Harrigan was sure 
he’d seen that symbol before. It could be nothing. He may just be 
paranoid. Still, he should make a drawing of the tattoo and show it 
to Diana. She’d know for sure.
A sound in the street suddenly caught his attention. No, it was half 
a sound. It was something that was going to be a sound, maybe a 
scream, but was then cut off. He walked away from his map and 
made sure the door to his room was locked.
During the nine hours he’d been in town, he went straight from the 
train station to the museum, and then to the hotel. Who could have 
found him so quickly?
Was it the curator? That old man had been so enthusiastic, pointing 
gleefully at tiny etched figures on pottery shards. He lectured at 
painful length about a primitive belief in an ancient evil that 
would someday enter this world through magical doorways. Did 
that odd little bookworm have Harrigan followed? 
Something heavy fell to the floor outside in the hallway and arcane 
forces began to violently shake the door in its frame. Harrigan sighed. 
There would be no time for packing. He could take the essentials and 
that was it. He picked up his gun, checked the clip, confirmed that 
there was one in the chamber, and turned the safety off.
The door’s enameled wood began to splinter and one of the hinges 
literally shook itself to pieces. Harrigan knew that he couldn’t leave 
any clues. With a well-practiced snap, his cigarette lighter was 
open, and he ran the flame across the bottom of the map. The fire 
quickly ran along each thread, devouring the documents. If this is 
the maid, Harrigan thought, I’m going to have a lot of explaining 
to do.
The door exploded into the room with a thunderous crack, and the 
thing stepped past the threshold.
It was not the maid.
The sight of the creature sent a cold shock through Harrigan’s spine, 
but he couldn’t let himself stop moving; not if he hoped to reach 
London by the end of the week. Harrigan closed his eyes and ran 
for the open window. The room was filled with the roaring of 
gunshots, fire, and madness.
Game Overview
Eldritch Horror is a cooperative game of investigation and 
horror inspired by the writings of H. P. Lovecraft. In each 
game, one of the Ancient Ones, a being of unimaginable power 
that predates time itself, is awakening. Players take on the roles 
of investigators who are attempting to solve mysteries, defend 
humanity from unimaginable horrors, and ultimately banish 
the Ancient One from this world. If investigators fail at their 
task, the Ancient One awakens, and mankind is doomed.
Using this Rulebook
This rulebook is written with the sole purpose of 
teaching new players how to play Eldritch Horror. For 
this reason, this rulebook omits many rules exceptions 
and card interactions. In addition to this rulebook, this 
game also comes with a reference guide. 
The reference guide addresses rules questions and special 
exceptions that are not answered in this rulebook. The 
guide also includes optional rules for adjusting game 
difficulty, scoring, and playing one-player games.
Players and Investigators
When playing Eldritch Horror, each player controls an 
investigator. In this rulebook, the word “investigator” 
refers to both the player controlling the investigator as 
well as the in-game character.

Components
8 America
51 Mythos Cards
16 Mystery Cards
8 Asia/Australia
24 Other World
18 Expedition 
(6 backs, 3 each)
12 General
 12 Special 
(2 backs, 6 each) 
32 Research 
(4 backs, 8 each)
• Action: Each investigator on your space 
recovers 1 Sanity. 
• Investigators on your space roll 1 additional 
die when resolving tests during Combat 
Encounters.
“No, not quiet at all. Dead folks get downright 
rambunctious when I play my horn.”
The Musician
Jim Culver
4 Ancient One Sheets
After resolving the { test, 
lose 1 Health and defeat 
this Monster.
Azathoth
The Daemon Sultan
• When the Omen advances to the green 
space of the Omen track, advance Doom by 
1 for each Eldritch token on that space. 
• When 3 Mysteries have been solved, 
investigators win the game.
• When Azathoth awakens, flip this 
sheet and resolve the “The World is 
Devoured!” effect on the back.
The Idiot God sits at the center of all things 
spreading madness and death. Its seeds 
descend from the stars, threatening to crack 
the world in half.
1 Game Board
Gain
 Rit
ual 
Spel
ls
Bu
en
oS 
reS
Spa
wn 
Clu
e To
kens
Lo
nd
on
 ]
iS
ta
nB
uL
the heart oF 
aFrica
the PyramidS
the himaLayaS
tunguSka
B Legend A
B Reserve A
B Doom Track A
paths
train
city
uncharted
wilderness
ship
sea
spaces
 
 
r
a
c
k
 
A
When performing an Acquire 
Assets action, you may 
gain a Debt Condition to 
immediately add 2 successes to 
your test result.
Bank Loan
 [
Sh
gh
 }
Sy
dn
ey
Def
eat 
Mon
sters
to
ky
o
antarctica
the amazon
Using This RefeRence gUide
This document is intended as a reference for all rules queries not 
answered in the main rulebook. Unlike the rulebook, this reference 
guide does not teach players how to play the game. Players should first 
read the rulebook in it entirety, then use this reference guide as needed 
when playing the game.
There are 5 major sections of this guide:
glossaRy .............................................pages 2-12
The majority of this document is the glossary. This lists detailed rules 
clarifications in alphabetical order by topic.
fReqUenTly asked qUesTions ............. pages 12
This section answers some commonly asked questions.
invesTigaToR abiliTies ........................... pages 13
This section lists detailed clarifications for investigator abilities.
opTional RUles .....................................page 14
This includes options for adjusting game difficulty and scoring at the 
end of the game.
index ........................................................page 15
This section contains a comprehensive list of topics and page numbers 
that players may need to reference throughout the game. 
qUick RefeRence ................................... page 16
The back page of this guide lists the phases of the game in an easy to 
reference format.
STOP! 
Read the rulebook before reading this document. After 
reading the rulebook, players are ready to play their first game. 
As questions arise during gameplay, players should reference 
this guide instead of the rulebook.
The Golden Rules
This reference guide is the definitive source of rules 
information. If something in this guide contradicts the 
rulebook, the reference guide is correct.
Effects on components (such as cards) sometimes contradict 
rules found in the rulebook or reference guide. In this 
situation, the component’s effect is correct.
If an effect uses the word “cannot,” that effect is absolute. 
REFERENCE GUIDE
8 Europe
12 Investigator Sheets with 
Matching Tokens and Plastic Stands
1 Reference Guide
122 Encounter Cards
(4 backs, 4 each)
(21 yellow, 18 green, 
and 12 blue)
14 Artifact Cards
36 Condition Cards
20 Spell Cards
40 Asset Cards
Icon Reference
Spawn Clues
Number of Players
Monster Surge
Spawn Gates
4 Reference Cards
1 Doom Token
43 Monster 
1 Omen Token
36 Clue Tokens
20 Eldritch Tokens
30 Improvement 
(6 for each skill)
20 Travel 
Ticket Tokens
(8 train, 12 ship)
4 Dice
78 Health and 
Sanity Tokens 
 
30 “1 Health” 
12 “3 Health” 
24 “1 Sanity” 
12 “3 Sanity”
 
34 normal, 9 epic
9 Gate Tokens
1 Active 
Expedition Token
4 Rumor Tokens
1 Mystery Token
1 Lead 
Investigator Token

Before playing each game, perform the following steps in order. 
The setup diagram on page 5 shows an example of these steps.
1. Place Game Board
Unfold the game board and place it in the center of the play 
area within easy reach of all players. 
2. Organize Tokens
Organize the following tokens as listed below:
A.	 Create the Gate stack by randomizing the nine Gate tokens, 
and placing them facedown (common side up) in a stack 
within reach of all players.
B.	 Create the Clue pool by placing the Clue tokens facedown 
(common side up) in a pile within reach of all players and 
randomize them.
C.	 Create the general token pool by taking all Health, Sanity, 
Improvement, Travel Ticket, Eldritch, Mystery, and Rumor 
tokens and place them in piles within reach of all players.
3. Choose and Place Investigators
Players agree upon one player to receive the Lead Investigator 
token. If they cannot decide, players assign this token to a 
random player as they see fit (for example, by rolling a die).
Starting with the Lead Investigator and proceeding clockwise, 
each player chooses one investigator. He takes the corresponding 
Investigator sheet, then places the matching Investigator token on 
the game board space listed on the back of his Investigator sheet.
1 Fishing Net Asset
Sydney, Australia
Starting Space
Starting Possessions
Investigator Sheet Back
4. Receive Starting Possessions, 
Health, and Sanity
Each investigator receives the starting possessions listed on the back 
of his Investigator sheet (see image above). He gains any Assets or 
Spells listed by taking the matching card from the game box.
Then he takes a number of Health and Sanity tokens equal to 
his investigator’s maximum Health and Sanity listed on the 
front of his Investigator sheet (see “Health and Sanity” on 
page 14). He places these tokens near his Investigator sheet.
5. Determine Ancient One
As a group, players choose one of the Ancient One sheets. Each 
Ancient One provides a different game experience. For their first 
game, it is recommended players choose “Azathoth,” as he is the 
most straightforward Ancient One. Place the chosen sheet faceup 
(displaying a Doom value in the top 
left corner) near the game board and 
resolve any setup effects on the sheet.
6. Create Monster Cup
Take all non-epic Monster tokens and place them in an opaque 
container such as a bowl, mug, or the cover of the game box 
(not shown in setup diagram). Then shake this container to 
randomize the Monster tokens.
Do not place the Epic Monster tokens in the Monster cup. 
Epic Monster tokens are marked by their red color and clipped 
lower-left corner (see “Epic Monsters” on page 15).
7. Separate and Place Decks
Take all Research Encounter cards, Special Encounter cards, 
and Mystery cards that do not correspond to the chosen 
Ancient One and return them to the game box (see diagram 
below). Those cards will not be used for this game. 
Then separate all other cards as listed below and place them 
near the game board.
^ Shuffle all Expedition Encounter cards into a single deck, 
regardless of card back. 
^ Shuffle the Spell cards and Condition cards into two 
separate decks. Place these decks faceup, with the top 
card’s name and artwork visible.
^ Set the Mythos cards aside for step 8. Then separate all 
other cards into decks by card back and shuffle each deck. 
Ancient One Setup Effect
Ancient One Specific Cards
Cthulhu Mystery 
Cards
Cthulhu Research 
Encounter Cards
Cthulhu Special 
Encounter Cards
Each Ancient One has two unique decks of cards: the 
Mystery deck and the Research deck. Some Ancient Ones 
also have a Special Encounter deck called out in their 
setup effect. Each card can be identified by an illustration 
of its corresponding Ancient One on the card’s back. 

8. Build Mythos Deck
Follow the instructions at the bottom of the Ancient One sheet 
to build the Mythos deck. See the “Building the Mythos Deck” 
diagram on page 6.
9. Resolve Starting Effects
Resolve the following effects to complete setup:
A.	 Place the Reference card that corresponds to 
the number of players near the Mythos deck. 
Players use the Reference card when resolving 
Mythos effects. Return all other Reference 
cards to the game box.
B.	 Place the Doom token on the space of the 
Doom track listed on the upper-left corner of 
the Ancient One sheet. For example, the 
Azathoth sheet denotes that the Doom token 
starts on the “15” space of the Doom track.
C.	 Place the Omen token on the green (comet) 
space of the Omen track.
Number of 
Players Icon
Starting 
Doom
D.	Place the top four cards of the Asset deck faceup in the four 
slots of the reserve (at the bottom-left of the game board).
E.	 Spawn the number of Gates indicated on the Reference card. 
 
To spawn a Gate, take the top Gate token from the Gate 
stack and place it faceup on the space indicated on the 
Gate token. Then draw one random Monster token from 
the Monster cup and place it on the same space.
F.	 Place the Active Expedition token on the space that 
corresponds to the illustration on the back of the top card 
of the Expedition Encounter deck.
G.	Spawn the number of Clues indicated on the Reference card. 
 
To spawn a Clue, take one random Clue token from the 
Clue pool and place it facedown on the space indicated on 
the face of the Clue token.
H.	Finally, draw one Mystery card and place it near the Ancient 
One sheet. Then resolve any “When this card enters play” 
effects on that card.
Setup Diagram for 2 Player Game
• Action: Move 1 space along a Ship path, 
then perform 1 additional action. 
• If you are on a Sea space, investigators 
on your space roll 1 additional die when 
resolving tests. 
“Leave your fears on the docks, lads. I’ll not carry that 
cargo. The wind is up! Full sail!”
The Sailor
• Action: Spend any number of Health or 
Sanity, then recover an equal number of 
Health or Sanity. 
• When you improve a skill, you may 
immediately improve that skill again. 
“I have been preparing to confront this evil for 
my entire life. My focus must be absolute.”
The Martial Artist
Lily Chen
TrinkeT
Once per round, you may reroll 
1 die when resolving a test.
Lucky Rabbit’s 
Foot
Item
Gain +1 { during 
Protective 
Amulet
Item
You may reroll 1 die when 
resolving a } test during a 
Combat Encounter.
Reduce the damage of 
Monsters you encounter by 1 
to a minimum of 1.
Fishing Net
Gain
 Rit
ual 
Spel
ls
Bu
en
oS 
reS
Spa
wn 
Clu
e To
kens
Lo
nd
on
 ]
iS
ta
nB
uL
the heart oF 
aFrica
the PyramidS
the himaLayaS
tunguSka
B Legend A
B Reserve A
B Doom Track A
paths
train
city
uncharted
wilderness
ship
sea
spaces
 
 
r
a
c
k
 
A
When performing an Acquire 
Assets action, you may 
gain a Debt Condition to 
immediately add 2 successes to 
your test result.
Bank Loan
 [
Sh
gh
 }
Sy
dn
ey
Def
eat 
Mon
sters
to
ky
o
antarctica
the amazon
Ally
Gain +1 [.
You may reroll 1 die when 
resolving a [ test. 
Arcane Scholar
Icon Reference
Spawn Clues
Number of Players
Monster Surge
Spawn Gates
Item — Weapon, magIcal
Gain +1 { and +2 } during 
Spirit Dagger
When you gain this card, 
immediately choose a space. 
Each Monster on the chosen 
space loses 4 Health.
Agency Quarantine
Item — Weapon
Gain +2 } during 
.38 Revolver
9a
9h
9e
9b
9f
2b
2c
9c
After resolving the { test, 
lose 1 Health and defeat 
this Monster.
Azathoth
The Daemon Sultan
• When the Omen advances to the green 
space of the Omen track, advance Doom by 
1 for each Eldritch token on that space. 
• When 3 Mysteries have been solved, 
investigators win the game.
• When Azathoth awakens, flip this 
sheet and resolve the “The World is 
Devoured!” effect on the back.
The Idiot God sits at the center of all things 
spreading madness and death. Its seeds 
descend from the stars, threatening to crack 
the world in half.
2a
9g
9d

Object of the Game
Eldritch Horror is a cooperative game. All players are on the 
same team and win or lose the game together. The investigators’ 
ultimate goal is to banish the Ancient One from this world by 
solving Mysteries (see page 16). 
In addition, investigators need to deal with many threats and 
crises facing the world. These appear in the form of Gates 
(which spawn Monsters and can awaken the Ancient One) and 
Rumor Mythos cards (which harm investigators and can end 
the game prematurely).
See “Winning the Game” on page 11 for more details.
Playing the Game
Eldritch Horror is played over a series of game rounds. Each 
round consists of three phases that are resolved in the following 
order:
1.	 Action Phase: Investigators perform actions to move about 
the game board and prepare for the tasks ahead.
2.	 Encounter Phase: Investigators fight Monsters or resolve 
encounter cards on their current space.
3.	 Mythos Phase: The Lead Investigator resolves one Mythos 
card. These cards often advance the Doom token, spawn 
Gates, or raise other challenges that investigators will need 
to overcome. 
At the end of each Mythos Phase, the Lead Investigator may 
pass the Lead Investigator token to any player of his choice. 
Investigators then start a new game round beginning with the 
Action Phase. Players continue resolving game rounds until 
they have won or lost the game.
The back of the reference guide contains a quick reference of 
these phases.
Building the Mythos Deck
During step 8 of setup, players build the Mythos deck. 
This deck is built differently each game, based on the 
instructions on the Ancient One sheet. To build this deck, 
perform the following steps:
1.	Separate all Mythos cards into three piles, based upon 
the color on the front of the card (green, yellow, and 
blue). Shuffle each separately, and place them facedown.
2.	Build stage I of the Mythos deck by taking random 
cards of the denoted colors and quantities (listed at the 
bottom of the Ancient One sheet) and shuffling them 
together. Do not look at the cards at this time. 
3.	Then build stage II of the Mythos deck (following the 
same steps as stage I) and place it under the stage I deck.
4.	Finally, build stage III of the Mythos deck and place 
it under the stage II deck to create a single Mythos 
deck. Once created, do not shuffle this deck. Place the 
deck near the Ancient One sheet. Return all remaining 
Mythos cards to the game box without looking at them.
g
p
Mythos Deck Composition 
on Ancient One Sheet
Stage I 
1 Green, 2 Yellow, 1 Blue
Stage II 
2 Green, 3 Yellow, 1 Blue
Stage III 
2 Green, 4 Yellow
Green 
Yellow 
Blue 
You hear it again and again on the 
news. Every day the world takes another 
step toward utter annihilation. You ask 
yourself, how much would you sacrifice 
to prevent that disaster? Even if you could 
only grant humanity one more day of 
existence, could you honestly say that the 
price was too high?
Desperate Times
Doom advances by 2 unless the Lead 
Investigator gains a Dark Pact Condition.
An article on the back page of the newspaper 
catches your attention. An unexplained 
attack on a remote outpost left no survivors. 
You’ve read about two other similar attacks 
happening in the same region. You can see 
that the forgotten corners of the globe are 
growing more dangerous.
Ancient Guardians
Spawn 2 Monsters on the Active 
Expedition space.
Lightning cracks across the sky. You have 
a sinking dread that all the good you’ve 
accomplished is about to be undone.
A Dark Power
Each Monster recovers all Health.
Then each investigator immediately 
encounters each Monster on his space 
in the order of his choice.
Piece by piece, you are falling apart. It’s 
getting harder to successfully negotiate simple 
human interactions. Your wounds won’t stop 
bleeding, and your hands won’t stop shaking. 
From Bad to Worse
Each investigator loses 1 Health for each 
Injury Condition he has, loses 1 Sanity for each 
MadnEss Condition he has, and discards 1 Clue 
for each dEal Condition he has.
An article on the back page of the newspaper 
catches your attention. An unexplained 
attack on a remote outpost left no survivors. 
You’ve read about two other similar attacks 
happening in the same region. You can see 
that the forgotten corners of the globe are 
growing more dangerous.
Ancient Guardians
Spawn 2 Monsters on the Active 
Expedition space.
The soldiers refuse to explain why you must 
pass through this checkpoint, and simply 
asking makes you more suspicious in 
their eyes.
Patrolling the Border
OngOing
When this card enters play, the Lead Investigator 
chooses 1 investigator to become Delayed. 
@: Each investigator on a City space tests |. 
If he fails, he becomes Delayed and gains 
a Detained Condition. 
According to the police report, several 
individuals entered the warehouse in the 
middle of the night. They performed some sort 
of ritual which culminated in their death. 
What you know that the police don’t is that, 
afterward, something inhuman left that 
warehouse.
Calling the Elder Things
Spawn 1 Monster on each space 
that contains a Cultist Monster.
The man in the suit slides the contract across 
the desk. “We’ve spoken to the police and 
the customs agents, and all of the necessary 
payments have been made. If you’ll just sign 
this, indicating that you understand your 
obligations, you can be on your way.” His 
assistant places a pen in your hand.
Legitimate Banking
The Lead Investigator gains a Debt Condition.
If the Lead Investigator already had a Debt 
Condition, he resolves the reckoning effect on 
that card, treating all die rolls as 1’s.
According to the police report, several 
individuals entered the warehouse in the 
middle of the night. They performed some sort 
of ritual which culminated in their death. 
What you know that the police don’t is that, 
afterward, something inhuman left that 
warehouse.
Calling the Elder Things
Spawn 1 Monster on each space 
that contains a Cultist Monster.
You cannot believe that this gibbering lunatic 
was once the smiling, lucid lawyer you spoke 
to this morning. “Collapsed,” his trembling 
hands indicated empty air. “The worlds 
collided, and the door collapsed!” He abruptly 
pulls himself off the floor and looks out the 
small window of his cell. “But so too will they 
pull. They will rip and tear, and a new door 
will open elsewhere.”
Dimensional Instability
Discard each Gate that corresponds 
to the current Omen and advance Doom 
by 1 for each Gate discarded.
Your contact in the capital is hesitant to speak 
about those called “The Watches.” He says they 
work for a number of different governments, 
but answer to some other authority.
Lost Knowledge
When this card enters play, spawn the Tick Tock 
Men Epic Monster on space 21. When it is 
defeated, solve this RumOR.
When there are no Eldritch tokens on this card, 
discard all Clues on the game board, then each 
investigator discards all Clues.
@: Discard 1 Eldritch token 
from this card.
The weather grows worse. Snow and ice 
cover cities that have never seen such 
weather before in their history
The Wind-Walker
When this card enters play, spawn the Wind-
Walker Epic Monster on space 4. When it is 
defeated, solve this RumOR.
When there are no Eldritch tokens on this card, 
each investigator becomes Delayed and loses 
6 Health, then solve this RumOR.
@: Discard 1 Eldritch token 
from this card.
Some dark magic has taken hold in you. 
Friends have started ignoring you as if you 
weren’t even in the room. It’s getting worse, 
and you fear that soon you will be invisible to 
every other person on Earth!
Faded From Society
As an encounter, an investigator on space 16 may 
attempt to research similar occurrences from the 
past (|). If he passes, he learns about a Russian 
folktale where children go missing; he may spend 
Clues equal to half ~ to solve this RumOR.
@: Search the Asset deck, discard pile, and reserve 
for all Assets with value equal to or greater than the 
number of Eldritch tokens on this card and return 
them to the game box. Then discard 1 Eldritch 
token from this card. If there are no Eldritch 
tokens on this card, solve this RumOR.
Space 16
You’ve never seen the Aurora Borealis flashing 
with such intensity. Even south of the arctic 
circle, the air feels alive with alien energies 
that cannot be dispelled.
Mysterious Lights
Gates cannot be closed.
As an encounter, an investigator on space 13 
may fly a plane over the arctic ice to scout for 
the source of these unusually intense northern 
lights (|). If he passes, he catches sight of an 
unoccupied mi-go outpost and attempts to turn 
off their bizarre devices; he may spend Clues 
equal to half ~ to solve this RumOR.
Space 13
A dozen unpleasant-looking strangers have 
settled into Panama with a large collection 
of astronomical reference books. There is 
something unique about this place and 
time that allows them to rip apart the 
fabric of reality.
Stars Aligned
As an encounter, an investigator on space 7 may 
attempt to find these strangers based on his 
observations of the stars (|). If he passes, he 
convinces la policía to remove these strangers; 
he may spend Clues equal to half ~ to solve 
this RumOR.
@: Advance the Omen by 1.
Space 7

Phase 1: Action Phase
During this phase, each investigator resolves up to two actions. 
Performing actions is the main way in which investigators move 
about the game board and acquire beneficial cards and tokens 
(such as Asset cards and travel tickets). 
This phase starts with the Lead Investigator. He performs two 
actions of his choice, then the investigator to his left performs 
two actions, and so on, until each investigator has performed 
his actions.
During the Action Phase, investigators may perform the 
following actions. The detailed rules for these actions are 
explained in the following sections.
^ Travel
^ Rest
^ Trade
^ Prepare for Travel
^ Acquire Assets
^ Component Actions 
Important: Each investigator can perform each action only 
once during a round. For example, an investigator cannot 
perform two Rest actions.
Travel Action
The investigator moves his Investigator token to any adjacent 
space (see “What are Spaces and Paths?” on the right).
After moving, the investigator may spend any number of 
travel tickets to move one additional space per ticket spent. 
Investigators can only spend Train Tickets to move along Train 
paths, and Ship Tickets to move along Ship paths (see “What are 
Spaces and Paths?” on right). See the “Action Phase Example” 
diagram on page 8 for an example of a Travel action.
Rest Action
The investigator recovers 1 Health and 1 Sanity (see “Health 
and Sanity” on page 14).
An investigator cannot perform this action if there is a Monster 
on his space. 
Health Tokens 
Sanity Tokens 
Trade Action
The investigator may trade possessions (Assets, Artifacts, Clues, 
Spells, and travel tickets) with another investigator on his space.
Prepare for Travel Action
If the investigator is on a City space, he gains one travel ticket 
of his choice. The investigator cannot gain a Train Ticket unless 
there is at least one Train path connected to his space. Likewise, 
he cannot gain a Ship Ticket unless there is at least one Ship 
path connected to his space. 
If a player ever has more than two travel tickets, he must choose 
two to keep and discard the rest.
Ship Travel Ticket
Train Travel Ticket
What are Spaces and Paths?
The different types of spaces and paths are shown on the 
“Legend” on the game board.
Tokens are often placed on spaces of the game board. 
Spaces include named locations (such as “Arkham”), as 
well as numbered locations. 
Examples of investigators on spaces
Each space is connected to at least one adjacent space by 
lines known as paths.
Each path has a type (color) that corresponds to a type 
of travel ticket (see “Travel Action”).

Acquire Assets Action
If the investigator is on a City space, he may attempt to 
acquire Asset cards from the reserve. He tests his Influence 
(]) by rolling dice and gains Assets of his choice from the 
reserve with total value equal to or less than the number of 
successes rolled (see “Tests” on page 12).
An Asset card
When you gain this card, 
immediately choose a space. 
Each Monster on the chosen 
space loses 4 Health.
Agency Quarantine
Value
Name
Trait
If he does not gain any cards, the investigator may discard one 
card of his choice from the reserve. 
After performing an Acquire Assets action, replace any cards 
discarded or gained from the reserve by drawing replacement 
cards from the Asset deck.
An investigator cannot perform this action if there is a Monster 
on his space. 
Component Actions
The investigator may perform an action listed on one of his 
components (such as a card or his Investigator sheet). These 
actions are preceded by the word “Action” in bold. 
An action on an Investigator sheet
• Action: Spend any number of Health or 
Sanity, then recover an equal number of 
Health or Sanity. 
• When you improve a skill, you may 
The Martial Artist
Lily Chen
Although an investigator cannot perform a component action 
from a single component more than once each round, he can 
perform component actions of different components.
Example: Lily Chen uses the action ability printed on her 
Investigator sheet. Then, for her second action, she could perform 
an action printed on an Asset card she has.
An investigator may also perform some actions using 
components held by other investigators on his space. These 
actions are preceded by the phrase “Local Action” in bold. 
Action Phase Example
1.	Silas Marsh is on San Francisco at the start of the Action 
Phase. Since he has the Lead Investigator token, Silas 
resolves his two actions first. 
2.	For Silas’s first action, he performs a Travel action. He 
moves from San Francisco to space 5. 
3.	During his Travel action, he decides to spend his Train 
Ticket to move one additional space along the Train 
path to Arkham. 
4.	For Silas’s second action, he decides to perform a Rest 
action to recover 1 Health and 1 Sanity. Since he already 
has Sanity tokens equal to his maximum Sanity, he only 
recovers the 1 Health. He takes 1 Health from the token 
pool and places it by his Investigator sheet. 
 
Silas has performed his two actions. The investigator to 
his left may now perform two actions. 
• Action: Move 1 space along a Ship path, 
then perform 1 additional action. 
• If you are on a Sea space, investigators 
on your space roll 1 additional die when 
resolving tests. 
“Leave your fears on the docks, lads. I’ll not carry that 
cargo. The wind is up! Full sail!”
The Sailor
X

Phase 2: Encounter Phase
During this phase, each investigator resolves one encounter. 
Encounters often involve reading a short narrative on an 
encounter card which can have positive and/or negative effects.
This phase starts with the Lead Investigator. He resolves 
an encounter, then the investigator to his left resolves an 
encounter, and so on, until each investigator has resolved 
one encounter.
During the Encounter Phase, if an investigator is on a space 
containing one or more Monsters, he must resolve a single 
Combat Encounter against each Monster on that space, one at a 
time, in the order of his choice. If there are zero Monsters on an 
investigator’s space, he instead resolves a location encounter or a 
token encounter of his choice as described in the sections below.
Combat Encounters
If an investigator is on a space containing one or more Monsters, 
he must resolve a single Combat Encounter against each 
Monster on that space, one at a time, in the order of his choice. 
Combat Encounters are described in detail on page 14.
After an investigator resolves all Combat Encounters, if there are 
no Monsters in his space, he may resolve another encounter.
Location Encounters
The investigator draws an encounter card matching his space’s 
artwork or from the General Encounter deck. He resolves the 
effect that matches his current space, then discards the card.
America 
Europe 
Asia/Australia 
General 
If an investigator has multiple types of encounter cards that he 
could draw, he chooses which deck to draw from. 
Example: An investigator is on Arkham. He can choose to draw 
a card from either the General Encounter deck or the America 
Encounter deck. If he chooses to draw a General Encounter card, 
he then resolves the “City” portion of the card.
The text below each named space 
on the game board lists the most 
common effect found on its specific 
encounter cards.
Token Encounters
Some tokens are placed on spaces of the game board and provide 
additional encounter options for investigators on that space. 
^ Clue tokens allow investigators to draw and resolve 
Research Encounter cards.
Research Encounter 
Card
Clue Token
^ Gate tokens allow investigators to draw and resolve Other 
World Encounter cards.
Other World 
Gate Token
^ The Active Expedition token allows investigators to draw 
and resolve Expedition Encounter cards.
Expedition 
Active Expedition 
^ Rumor tokens allow investigators to resolve the encounter 
listed on the Rumor Mythos card that refers to that space.
A dozen unpleasant-looking strangers have 
settled into Panama with a large collection 
of astronomical reference books. There is 
something unique about this place and 
time that allows them to rip apart the 
fabric of reality.
Stars Aligned
As an encounter, an investigator on space 7 may 
attempt to find these strangers based on his 
observations of the stars (|). If he passes, he 
convinces la policía to remove these strangers; 
he may spend Clues equal to half ~ to solve 
this RumOR.
@: Advance the Omen by 1.
Space 7
Rumor Mythos Card
Rumor Token
^ Defeated Investigator tokens allow investigators to resolve 
the encounter listed on the back of the defeated investigator’s 
sheet (see “Defeated Investigators” on page 14).
A Defeated 
Investigator Token
“I’m fine, darling. Help yourself, by the 
way.” Lola nods at the equipment strewn 
across the hotel room. Gain all of her 
possessions. As convincing as she is, you 
know she’s in pain. You try to persuade 
her to visit a hospital (]). If you pass, 
she sighs a breath of relief and tells you of 
all the horrors she’s encountered; retreat 
Doom by 1. If you fail, the day after 
Lola leaves the city, she succumbs to her 
wounds. Whether you pass or not, discard 
her Investigator token.
The trail of Lola’s belongings lead you 
into a derelict theater. Gain all of her 
possessions. She’s on the stage wringing 
her blood-soaked hands and reciting, 
“Will these hands ne’er be clean?” You 
try to direct her performance, hoping to 
better reveal her character (]). If you 
pass, she tells you of the Tattered King, 
indicating a goat she’s killed; retreat 
Doom by 1. If you fail, Lola’s dialogue 
degenerates into gibberish. Whether you 
pass or not, discard her Investigator token.
Around the world, Lola has performed dramatic roles 
for sold-out houses. However, after being cast in the 
controversial play, The King in Yellow, Lola needed to 
“take some time” to recover from her “exhaustion.” Now 
that she has checked herself out of the asylum, she’s ready for 
her big comeback. But this time she’ll play a different role in 
the fight against the horrors that threaten this world. She’s 
started by traveling to Tokyo to track down the only other 
surviving cast member of her previous theatrical endeavor.
Lola Hayes
1 .18 Derringer Asset
Improve 1 skill of your choice
Tokyo, JP
Investigator 
Sheet Back
Rome encounters often 
improve the investigator’s 
Will ({)

Phase 3: Mythos Phase
During this phase, the Lead Investigator draws the top card of 
the Mythos deck. There are seven possible effects on a Mythos 
card, and the Lead Investigator resolves them in the order they 
appear (left to right, starting from the top). The order and 
effects of each element are listed below:
Advance 
Omen
Move the Omen token one space clockwise 
around the track. Then advance Doom by 
one for each Gate on the game board that 
matches the Omen token’s current space (see 
“What are the Doom and Omen Tracks?”)
Resolve 
Reckoning 
Effects
Resolve all effects proceeded by a @ icon 
on components in play. These components 
are marked with a red reckoning icon in the 
lower-right corner as a visual reminder. 
Resolve these effects in the following order: 
Monsters, Ancient One sheet, Ongoing 
Mythos cards, and lastly investigator 
possessions and Conditions.
Spawn 
Gates
Spawn a number of Gates as defined by the 
Reference card (see “Spawning Gates” on 
the right).
Monster 
Surge
At each gate that matches the Omen 
token’s current space, spawn the number of 
Monsters listed on the Reference card 
(see “Spawning Monsters” on page 11). 
If there are no matching Gates currently on 
the game board, spawn one Gate instead.
Spawn 
Clues
Spawn a number of Clues as defined by the 
Reference card (see “Spawning Clues” on 
page 11).
Place Rumor 
Place a Rumor token on the space listed (see 
“Rumors” on page 16).
Place Eldritch 
Place the listed number of Eldritch tokens 
on this Mythos card.
Resolve 
Each Monster recovers all Health.
Then each investigator immediately 
encounters each Monster on his space 
in the order of his choice.
If the card has the Event trait listed above 
the text effect, immediately resolve the 
effect and then discard the card. If it has 
the Ongoing trait, place it in play near the 
Ancient One sheet. It remains in play until 
discarded by a game effect.
Investigators resolve only the effects displayed on the current 
Mythos card. For example, if the Mythos card does not have the 
spawn clues icon, investigators do not resolve the spawn clues step. 
Spawning Gates
When an effect spawns a Gate, take the top Gate token from 
the Gate stack and place it faceup on the space indicated on the 
Gate token. 
When a Gate is spawned, a Monster is spawned on the same 
space (see “Spawning Monsters” on page 11).
A Gate and Monster that have been spawned on Arkham
What are Gates?
Gate tokens represent tears in the fabric of reality. These 
gateways can lead to other worlds, dimensions, or even 
points in time. These dangerous anomalies allow deadly 
powers into our world, such as Monsters and eventually 
even the Ancient Ones.
Gates are the main way that Doom advances (see the 
“Advance Omen” step of the Mythos Phase). To prevent 
Doom from advancing (and the Ancient One from 
awakening), investigators need to resolve Other World 
Encounter cards to close (discard) Gates. 
What are the Doom 
and Omen Tracks?
The Doom track measures the time remaining until the 
Ancient One awakens (see page 16). When Doom 
advances, move the Doom token toward the “0” space of 
the Doom track. When Doom retreats, move the Doom 
token away from the “0” space of the Doom track.
The Omen track’s purpose is to advance Doom. When 
the Omen token advances, investigators advance Doom 
by 1 for each Gate on the game board that matches the 
current Omen symbol. 
 
Advancing Omen
Retreating Doom
Advancing Doom

Spawning Monsters
When an effect spawns a Monster, draw one random Monster 
token from the Monster cup and place it on the space indicated 
by the effect.
If the Monster has the spawn icon, look at the 
back of the Monster token and resolve its effect 
immediately after spawning it (for example, 
“When this Monster is spawned, move it to 
Heart of Africa”).
What is the Monster Cup?
During setup, players choose any opaque container, 
such as the game box lid, to serve as the Monster 
cup. When a Monster is spawned, one player draws a 
random Monster token from the Monster cup without 
looking. When a Monster is defeated or discarded, 
return it to the Monster cup. Then shake the container 
to randomize the Monster tokens.
Spawning Clues
When an effect spawns a Clue, take one random Clue token 
from the Clue pool and place it facedown on the space 
indicated on the Clue token. 
This Clue is placed on Arkham
What are Clues?
Clue tokens represent secrets and lore about the Ancient 
One. Investigators can collect these tokens by resolving 
Research Encounters (see page 9).
Investigators use Clues to solve Mysteries (see page 
16), solve Rumors (see page 16), and to reroll dice 
during tests (see page 12). 
Spawn Icon 
on a Monster
Winning the Game
Investigators immediately win the game if they solve three 
of the Ancient One’s Mysteries. If the Ancient One awakens, 
investigators will also need to solve the Final Mystery in order 
to win the game (see page 16).
Azathoth Mystery 
Card Back
Azathoth Mystery 
Card Front
Investigators lose the game if any of the following occur:
^ If the Doom token reaches the “0” space of the Doom 
track, the Ancient One awakens. The back of the Ancient 
One sheet lists how investigators can lose the game (see 
“The Ancient One Awakens” on page 16). 
^ All investigators have been eliminated from the game.
^ A card effect causes investigators to lose the game. This 
most frequently appears on some Rumor Mythos cards.
^ The investigators are required to draw a Mythos card but 
cannot because the Mythos deck is empty.
From: Ramsay
To: Black Chamber
One of our Watches intercepted the following message from 
a known Silver Twilight Lodge Member in Berlin on October 
8th. Our initial attempts to decode have been unsuccessful. 
Please give this material your highest priority.
This document is top secret and highly classified. 
Possession of this document or knowledge of its 
contents without the necessary security clearance 
is an act of treason, punishable by death.
delwgejcufreeevlumvlequufkceeeidppuefmvleiu 
vfvmgsuvgfigdvugmjcrubfmcrbjvcbbevmpwumedv 
lfmmcrbicquegfigdvalugeubjcqrpfgmeuvcugvml 
iumefmcrbluurbejrpdgfigijpuemecrbvqspuee 
vleacdpfkgmalugrsscalugrgedcfkegmqfgyquo 
ugfigufrrdedppmppghdrhjcerefcpvlvsyggre
We’ll need a keyword to unlock this. Contact our 
agent within the lodge. Do not use the Watches. 
-Scarborough

Additional Rules
This section lists all other rules needed to play the game.
Tests
Many effects require investigators to resolve a test. To resolve a 
test, the investigator rolls dice to determine whether he passes 
or fails the test. Passing tests often provides benefits to the 
investigator, while failing tests often have negative side effects.
To resolve a test, the investigator rolls a number of dice 
equal to his value in the listed skill, taking into account any 
effects that add or subtract from his skill. Investigators roll a 
minimum of 1 die on each test.
If he rolls at least one success (a “5” or a “6”), he passes the 
test. If he does not roll any successes, he fails the test. The 
number of successes rolled is called the test result.
When an investigator passes or fails a test, he follows the 
original effect’s instructions for the matching result.
Example: Lily Chen has an “Arcane Tome” Asset card which reads: 
“When you perform a Rest action, you may test [. If you pass, 
gain 1 Spell.” When resting, Lily resolves this test using her Lore 
([) of 2. She rolls 2 dice with results of “1” and “3.” Since she 
did not roll a “5” or “6,” she fails the test does not gain a Spell.
An investigator can use only one card effect that provides a skill 
bonus during each test (for example, an Asset that reads “Gain 
+1 [”). If he has multiple card effects that provide a bonus, he 
uses the highest bonus.
Tests on Cards
On many cards, tests are declared using their skill icon 
embedded in parenthesis following a short narrative. When an 
investigator is resolving an effect that includes a skill icon in the 
text, he must immediately test that skill. The test declaration 
may also indicate a modifier (such as “–1”), which causes the 
investigator to roll more or fewer dice in the test.
Note that most gameplay terms are capitalized on cards to help 
differentiate them from narrative text.
Rerolling Dice
Immediately after rolling dice during a test, an investigator 
may spend a Clue token to reroll one die. He may perform this 
multiple times, as long as he spends a Clue token each time. He 
determines whether he passed or failed after resolving all rerolls.
Improvement Tokens
These tokens represent an investigator’s training 
in particular skills. When an effect allows an 
investigator to improve a skill, he gains an 
Improvement token with the matching icon and 
places it below his Investigator sheet with the “+1” side up. 
If he improves that skill a second time, he flips that token to 
the “+2” side. An investigator’s skill is equal to the value printed 
on his sheet plus the value of the matching Improvement token.
Complex Encounters
Expedition Encounters, Other World Encounters, and Special 
Encounters are rewarding but dangerous adventures called 
complex encounters. Each of these cards has three effects. To 
resolve these encounters, an investigator first resolves the initial 
effect (the top box of the card). Depending upon the result of 
this effect, he immediately resolves one of the other two effects. 
If he passes the test in the initial effect, he resolves the card’s 
pass effect. If he fails the test, he resolves the card’s fail effect. 
He resolves the entire effect in the appropriate box (which may 
involve additional tests), then discards the card.
He spots you and unleashes a torrent of arcane 
energy that tears at your mind. Lose 3 Sanity 
unless you spend 1 Clue.
You learn what he’s been reading and realize 
that he has opened a portal between worlds; 
close this Gate. Afterward, you examine the 
book that he was reading ([). If you pass, 
gain 1 Clue or 1 Spell. If you fail, you’ve never 
encountered such horrors before; lose 2 Sanity.
You are stunned to see a familiar 
face reading through tomes 
of dark sorcery. You try to catch a 
glimpse of what he’s reading without alerting 
him to your presence (|–1).
Great Hall 
of Celaeno
Initial Effect
Pass Effect
Fail Effect
Skills listed on an Investigator sheet
If an Other World Encounter card instructs an investigator to 
“close this Gate,” he discards the Gate token from his space.
After resolving an Expedition Encounter, the investigator 
moves the Active Expedition token to the space that matches 
the newly-revealed top card of the Expedition Encounter deck.
Improvement 
What are Skills?
Each investigator has five different skills listed on the 
bottom of his Investigator sheet. The number below 
each skill is the number of dice the investigator rolls 
when resolving a test (see “Tests” to the left).
Skills listed on an Investigator sheet

Gaining Possessions 
and Conditions
Investigators frequently gain Assets, Artifacts, Spells, and 
Conditions. When an investigator gains a card or token, he 
places it faceup near his Investigator sheet.
Spells and Conditions
Spell and Condition cards are unique in that they have hidden 
information on the back of their cards. When a player gains a Spell 
or Condition card, he can only look at the front of the card.
Card Front
Spell Card 
Front
The card describes when an investigator flips it, at which point 
he immediately resolves the back of the card.
Delayed Investigators
Investigators can become Delayed by various effects. A Delayed 
investigator cannot perform actions. 
When an investigator becomes Delayed, he tips his Investigator 
token on its side to remember that he is Delayed. Instead of 
performing actions during the Action Phase, he stands up his 
Investigator token and is no longer Delayed.
A Delayed Investigator’s Token
Other World 
Encounter Example
1.	Silas Marsh is on a space containing a Gate token 
during the Encounter Phase. 
2.	He decides to encounter the Gate, and draws a card 
from the Other World Encounter deck. He resolves 
the initial effect, and comes upon “(|–1).” This 
means that he needs to test his Observation. 
3.	He takes his investigator’s skill in Observation (3) 
and applies the test’s modifier (–1). 
4.	He does not have any abilities or possessions that 
further modify this value, so he rolls 2 dice. 
5.	He did not roll a “5” or “6” and, therefore, fails 
the test. He resolves the fail effect that causes him 
to lose 3 Sanity unless he spends 1 Clue. He then 
discards the Other World Encounter card.
He spots you and unleashes a torrent of arcane 
energy that tears at your mind. Lose 3 Sanity 
unless you spend 1 Clue.
You learn what he’s been reading and realize 
that he has opened a portal between worlds; 
close this Gate. Afterward, you examine the 
book that he was reading ([). If you pass, 
gain 1 Clue or 1 Spell. If you fail, you’ve never 
encountered such horrors before; lose 2 Sanity.
You are stunned to see a familiar 
face reading through tomes 
of dark sorcery. You try to catch a 
glimpse of what he’s reading without alerting 
him to your presence (|–1).
Great Hall 
of Celaeno

Health and Sanity
Each investigator starts the game with Health and Sanity 
tokens equal to his maximum Health and Sanity, respectively. 
Maximum Health
Maximum Sanity
When an effect causes an investigator to lose Health or Sanity, 
he discards Health or Sanity tokens from his Investigator sheet. 
If an investigator recovers Health or Sanity, he gains Health 
and Sanity tokens from the token pool. An investigator cannot 
have more Health or Sanity than his maximum.
Defeated Investigators
When an investigator has zero Health or Sanity, he is 
immediately defeated and resolves the following steps:
1.	 Advance Doom: Advance Doom by 1. 
2.	 Relocation: Move the Investigator token to the nearest 
City space. Then lay the Investigator token on its side and 
place a Health token on it to indicate the investigator has 
lost all Health, or place a Sanity token on it to indicate the 
investigator has lost all Sanity.
A Defeated Investigator’s Token
3.	 Collect Possessions: The investigator discards all Condition 
cards, Health, Sanity, and Improvement tokens and places 
his possessions (Assets, Artifacts, Spells, Clues, and travel 
tickets) on his Investigator sheet. He places the sheet and 
possessions out of the way; they will be needed if an 
investigator encounters this defeated investigator.
4.	 Pass Lead Investigator: If the defeated investigator has 
the Lead Investigator token, he must pass the token to an 
investigator of his choice.
After resolving the steps above, investigators continue resolving 
the current phase of the game. 
Choosing a New Investigator
If an investigator is defeated, the player controlling that 
investigator chooses a new investigator at the end of the Mythos 
Phase. To choose a new investigator, he chooses any unused 
Investigator and follows steps 3-4 of setup on page 4. 
Encountering Defeated Investigators
Investigators may encounter a defeated investigator’s token in 
order to retrieve its possessions and possibly retreat doom.
If an investigator is on the same space as a defeated 
investigator’s token during the encounter phase, he may resolve 
one of the encounters on the back of the defeated investigator’s 
sheet. He resolves the “Crippled” encounter if the Investigator 
token has a Health token on it or the “Insane” encounter if the 
Investigator token has a Sanity token on it.
You find Silas and gain all of his 
possessions. He has grown pale, and his 
breath has become a loud wheeze. He 
tells you, “I’m a Marsh. It’s in my blood. 
Not long now, I’ll join my family, down 
in the deep.” You ask a doctor to watch 
him overnight (]). If you pass, the 
sailor shares all he’s learned before dying 
peacefully in his sleep; retreat Doom by 1. 
If you fail, Silas surrenders his humanity 
and disappears into the sea. Whether you 
pass or not, discard his investigator token.
Silas had hidden his belongings in the 
prearranged cache, but the man himself 
is nowhere to be found. Gain all of his 
possessions. You search local hospitals 
filled with the unidentified dead or dying 
(|). If you pass, you find Silas alive but 
incapacitated, and you arrange a private 
nurse to watch over him; retreat Doom 
by 1. If you fail, Silas dies alone and 
unrecognized. Whether you pass or not, 
discard his Investigator token.
Even as a child in Innsmouth, Silas had a special 
connection to the sea. He’s an able and well-reasoned man 
on land, but on the ocean he possesses a singular strength 
and wit. It’s earned him a sterling reputation in every port 
across the globe, particularly in Sydney, where Silas set 
ashore last night. But this morning, the smell of the briny 
air carries dread as well as joy. There is something in his 
past, something in Innsmouth, that he knows will some day 
catch up to him.
1 Fishing Net Asset
Sydney, Australia
Crippled Encounter 
Insane Encounter
After resolving this encounter, remove the defeated Investigator 
token and Investigator sheet from the game. That investigator 
cannot be used for the remainder of the game.
Devoured Investigators
Some game effects cause investigators to be devoured. When 
an investigator is devoured, he is considered defeated but only 
follows steps 1 and 4 of “Defeated Investigators” on the left. 
He then discards all Conditions, possessions, Health, Sanity, 
and Improvement tokens and removes his Investigator sheet 
and token from the game. At the end of the Mythos Phase, he 
chooses a new investigator as described on the left.
Combat Encounters
Resolving Combat Encounters is the main way in which 
investigators can defeat Monsters to remove them from the 
game board.
When encountering a Monster, the investigator flips the 
Monster token facedown and reads the information on the 
back of the token. He then resolves two tests, first a will 
test and then a strength test, to determine the result of the 
Combat Encounter. 
Horror
Toughness
Damage
Test
Test
Monster Token Back

Will Test
The investigator resolves the Will ({) test listed on the 
Monster token.
If the Monster’s horror is greater than the number of 
successes rolled (“5”s and “6”s), the investigator loses Sanity 
equal to the difference (see “Combat Example” below).
Strength Test
The investigator resolves the Strength (}) test listed on the 
Monster token. 
If the Monster’s damage is greater than the number of 
successes rolled, the investigator loses Health equal to the 
difference (see “Combat Example” below).
The Monster loses Health equal to the number of successes 
rolled. Indicate this by placing Health tokens on the Monster 
token. When a Monster has lost Health equal to or greater than 
its toughness, the Monster is defeated and returned to the 
Monster cup.
If the investigator did not defeat the Monster, it remains on his 
space along with any Health tokens on it.
Epic Monsters
Some Monsters are so powerful or 
unmanageable that they are immune to 
some effects. Epic Monsters are treated like 
Monsters for all effects except that they 
cannot be moved, discarded, or returned to 
the Monster cup. 
An Epic Monster cannot be defeated unless it has lost Health equal 
to its toughness, at which point it is returned to the game box. 
Epic Monsters are spawned by specific effects that call them out 
by name and are never placed in the Monster cup.
Ambush
Some effects cause investigators to encounter Monsters that 
are not on the game board. When an effect says “A Monster 
ambushes you,” the investigator draws one random Monster 
from the Monster cup and immediately encounters it in 
combat. After resolving combat, he returns the Monster to 
the Monster cup (even if he did not defeat it) and continues 
resolving the effect that caused the ambush.
An Epic Monster
Combat Example
1.	During the Encounter Phase, Lily Chen is on the same 
space as a Monster and must encounter it in combat. 
2.	Lily flips the Monster token over. It does not have any 
effects that are resolved during combat. 
3.	Lily resolves a { test. She has a { of 3. The Monster 
does not list a modifier, so she rolls 3 dice. 
4.	She rolls 1 success and subtracts it from the Monster’s 
horror (
) of 2. She loses 1 Sanity (equal to the 
difference). 
5.	Lily resolves a } test. She has a } of 4. She applies 
the Monster’s modifier (–1) and gains a bonus from her 
“.38 Revolver” (+2), so she rolls 5 dice.
6.	She rolls 1 success, and subtracts it from the Monster’s 
damage (
) of 1. Since she rolled a number of successes 
equal to its damage, she does not lose any Health. 
 
Since she rolled 1 success, the Monster loses 1 Health. 
She places 1 Health token on the Monster. Its toughness 
is 2, so it is not defeated and her encounter ends. 
Item — Weapon
Gain +2 } during 
.38 Revolver
X

Rumors
Rumor Mythos cards often place Rumor 
tokens on specific spaces of the game board. 
An investigator on a space containing a Rumor 
token can encounter the token during the 
Encounter Phase. To do so, he resolves the 
effect on that Mythos card instead of resolving 
an encounter card.
When a Mythos card is “solved,” discard the card along with 
any tokens on it, then discard the corresponding Rumor token 
from the game board.
Mysteries
In order to win the game, investigators need to solve three 
Mysteries. Each Ancient One has its own deck of Mystery cards 
with a unique set of tasks that the investigators must resolve.
During setup, draw one Mystery card and place it faceup next 
to the Ancient One sheet. Each card lists how investigators can 
solve that Mystery. As soon as a Mystery is solved, immediately 
draw a new Mystery card from the deck and place it faceup on 
top of the old Mystery card.
When this card enters play, place the Mystery token on Tunguska.
As an encounter, an investigator on Tunguska may attempt to 
search for signs of the impact in the dead forest (|). If he passes, 
he discovers the strange green meteorite; he may spend 2 Clues to 
place 1 Eldritch token on this card.
A strange green comet has fallen from the sky. 
Even after the impact, the meteorite continues to 
slowly burrow itself deeper into the earth. 
Seed of the Daemon Sultan
The Active 
Mystery Card
A Completed 
Mystery Card
As soon as three Mysteries are solved, investigators win the 
game. If the Ancient One awakens, investigators need to solve 
the Final Mystery in addition to three Mystery cards (see “Final 
Mystery” on the right).
Rumor Token
The Ancient One Awakens
When the Doom token reaches the “0” space of the Doom 
track, the Ancient One awakens. Flip the Ancient One sheet and 
immediately resolve the “Awakens” effects (if any) on the upper-
left corner of the sheet. This sheet remains facedown for the rest 
of the game, and its effects replace those found on the front of the 
sheet (including Cultist information). The back of the Ancient 
One sheet also describes how the investigators can lose the game.
}–2
@: Move this Monster 1 
space toward the Shub-
Niggurath Epic Monster.
Black Goat of the Woods 
With a Thousand Young 
• Each time Doom would advance, 
spawn 1 Monster on the space containing 
the Shub-Niggurath Epic Monster. Then, 
if there are 6 or more Monsters on that 
space (including the Shub-Niggurath Epic 
Monster), investigators lose the game.
• @: Each investigator on the space 
containing the Shub-Niggurath Epic 
Monster immediately encounters it.
Final Mystery
The feral mother of all monstrosities has 
manifested! She is an enormous cloud from 
which dozens of tentacles extend and retract. 
Wherever she goes, she leaves behind large hoof 
prints. To behold her true, terrifying form is to 
come face to face with true, primal horror.
When the Shub-Niggurath Epic Monster 
is defeated, the Final Mystery is solved 
and investigators win the game.
Battle in the Woods
Shub-Niggurath 
Awakens! 
Spawn the Shub-Niggurath 
Epic Monster on a random 
space. Then move all 
Ghoul, Goat Spawn, and 
Dark Young Monsters on 
the map to that space.
Final 
Mystery
Effects
Cultist 
Information
Back of an Ancient One Sheet
Awakens 
Eliminated Players
After the Ancient One has awakened, when an investigator is 
defeated or devoured, the player controlling that investigator is 
eliminated. Eliminated players do not select a new investigator 
to control and can no longer participate in the game. 
If all players are eliminated, investigators lose the game.
Final Mystery
Once the Ancient One awakens, it is much more difficult 
for investigators to win the game. Each Ancient One sheet 
describes one Final Mystery the investigators must solve in 
order to win the game, usually confronting the Ancient One 
head-on. 
How do you Determine 
a Random Space?
Some effects found on Rumor Mythos cards and 
Mysteries place tokens on a “random space.” Whenever 
an effect refers to a random space, that space is 
determined by drawing one Clue token from the Clue 
pool and using the space indicated by the back of the 
token. The drawn Clue token is then discarded.
What Now?
Now that you’ve read this rulebook, you are ready to play 
your first game! As questions arise during play, consult the 
reference guide. Below are some examples of commonly 
referenced rules:
• When calculating half of a number, always round up.
• The Lead Investigator decides all disputes.
• Possessions that affect “an investigator,” may be used 
on oneself unless it specifies “another investigator.”