Rule book
Alan R. Moon
Table of Contents
Contents:
Page:
Description and Contents ....................
How To Set Up The Game ......................4
Game Board ...........................................
Travel Cards ............................................
How To Play ............................................
1. Deal the Travel Cards ......................... 6
2. Draw a Transportation Counter
from the face down stack.................
3. Draw additional
Transportation Counters...................... 6
4. Plan the travel routes ........................
5. Move the Elf Boots ............................
6. Finish the round 
............................ 11
End of Game ............................................ 12
Variation ................................................... 12
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 1

120 Town Pieces
48 Transportation Counters
Dragon
8 x Dragon
6 Obstacles
8 x Unicorn
8 x Troll Wagon
8 x Elfcycle
8 x Magic Cloud
8 x Giant Pig
Description
In Elfenland, young elves have to pass a very special test before they are accepted
as grown-ups. All elf girls and elf boys receive a map of Elfenland, and they have to
visit as many famous towns in Elfenland as possible, using the common types of
transportation: dragons, unicorns, giant pigs, elfcycles, troll wagons, magic clouds,
ferries and rafts. These types of transportation, however, are available in limited
numbers and can only be used in specific regions. Thus, an exciting race starts
among the elves to find out who will make the best use of the available
transportation. The one to visit the most towns will win the game.
6 Elf Boots
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 2

Dragon
12 Town Cards
Elfcycle
Magic
Cloud
Giant
Pig
Raft
6 Transportation 
Charts
4 Round Cards
1 Game Board
1 Rule book
1 Starting Player Card
72 Travel Cards
Unicorn
Troll Wagon
12 x
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 3

Place the four Round Cards in one stack in the top
right corner of the board with the number “4” on
bottom, followed by “3”, “2” and “1” on top. The top
card always indicates the current round.
Separate the 48 Transportation Counters from the six
Obstacles (red border). Now mix the Transportation
Counters and place them face down in a pile next to
the board on the table. Turn over five Transportation
Counters and place them next to the face down ones.
Five Transportation Counters must always be face up
during the entire game.
Each player takes a Transportation Chart and an
Obstacle. Put the remaining Transportation Charts and
Obstacles back in the allotted slots in the box.
Give the Starting player Card to the oldest player so
he can start the game. After he has completed his
turn, the turn passes to the left.
Separate the cards according to the different colored backs (green, gray and blue).
Put the twelve Town Cards (green backs) in the box; they are only important for a
variation of this game.
Each player receives one Elf Boot
and 20 Town Pieces of the same
color. Place the boots in the elf
capital of "Elvenhold". Each player
places his Town Pieces on the other
20 towns.
Transportation Chart
Travel Cards
Round Cards
Transportation Counters
Starting Player Card
Obstacle
How to Set Up the Game
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 4

The Giant Pig cannot travel through the desert 
or in the mountains.
The Elfcycle cannot be used in the desert and
requires 2 Travel Cards for the mountains.
The Magic Cloud cannot travel through the desert
and requires 2 Travel Cards for the plains and woods.
The Unicorn cannot travel through the plains and
requires 2 Travel Cards for the desert.
The Troll Wagon requires 2 Travel Cards 
in the woods, in the desert, and in the mountains.
The Dragon requires 2 Travel Cards to fly over 
the woods.
Naturally, only Rafts can travel on rivers and lakes.
Upriver (in the opposite direction indicated by the
arrows) and on lakes, Rafts require 2 Travel Cards.
In Elfenland, the well built road
network connects the towns with each
other. Each road runs through a specific
region, through the light green plains,
dark green woods, yellow desert and
over the gray mountains. The rivers and
the great lakes can also be used to
travel from one place to the next.
Elves may use seven different types of transportation. Depending on the region, a type
of transportation may allow fast or slower travel, and some types of transportation may
not be used in some regions at all.
Game Board
Travel Cards
Each Travel Card indicates the type of
transportation (which transportation counter to
use) and the type of region it can be used in.
Each round symbol indicates a type of region.
A single round symbol indicates that only one
travel card must be used. A double round
symbol indicates that two Travel Cards must be
played to use the chosen road.
If a specific region’s symbol is missing, you cannot use that particular Travel Card or
Transportation Counter in that region.
Two symbols indicate
that two travel cards
must be played.
Types of
transportation
The type of transportation
indicates which transportation
counter to use.
Roads
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 5

How to Play
Elfenland is played in rounds. Each round consists of the following
six phases: 
1. Deal the Travel Cards
In the first round, the Starting Player shuffles the Travel Cards and
deals 8 cards to each player. He places the remaining cards face
down in a stack next to the board. On subsequent rounds, the
Starting Player shuffles all Travel Cards from the Travel Card stack.
He then deals new Travel Cards to each player until each player
holds eight Travel Cards in his hand.
2. Draw a Transportation Counter 
from the face down stack
Beginning with the Starting Player, each player draws one of the
face down Transportation Counters, looks at it and places it face
down in front of him. This Transportation Counter is kept secre t
f rom the other players, but the player may refer to it at any time.
In the course of the game, a player may have several secre t
Transportation Counters.
3. Draw additional Transportation Counters
Beginning with the Starting Player again, each player draws an
additional Transportation Counter, choosing either one of the five
face up ones or one of the face down ones. Each player places
his Transportation Counter face up in front of him. If a player
chooses one of the five face up Transportation Counters, he must
immediately turn over one of the face down ones so that there
a re always five face up Transportation Counters to choose fro m .
All players continue to draw Transportation Counters until each
player has drawn three Transportation Counters. Together with the
face down Transportation Counters, each player now has four
Transportation Counters in the first ro u n d .
Players who retained a Transportation Counter from the pre v i o u s
round will now have five Transportation Counters (one or two
face down and three or four face up).
1. Deal the Travel Cards.
2. Draw a Transportation Counter from the face down stack.
3. Draw additional Transportation Counters.
4. Plan the travel routes.
5. Move the Elf Boots.
6. Finish the round.
Each player receives 
8 cards.
The first time you play
Elfenland:
Always play the phase
described in the section
you just read, before
you continue to the
next section.
Each player draws one
and places it in front of
him face down.
Each player draws three
face up Transportation
Counters.
Tip: Choose types of
transportation that are
identical with the ones
on your travel cards.
Each player can only
have a maximum of 5
Transportation counters
in front of him.
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 6

Beginning with the Starting
Player, the players take
turns to place one of their
Transportation Counters
face up on a road. Only
one Transportation Counter
may be placed per road.
A player may only place a Transportation Counter on a road if
that particular type of transportation is suited for traveling on
the chosen road. The Transportation Charts indicate which
Transportation Counter may be used on which road. For
example, a Giant Pig may not be placed on a desert road.
Watch Out:
Each Transportation Counter placed on the board may be used
by all players in planning their travel routes.
Obstacle
Instead of a Transportation
Counter, players may also place
an Obstacle on a road. However,
this play can only be made once
by each player during the entire
game, and only if a
Transportation Counter has
already been placed on the
particular road. Only one
Obstacle may be placed per
road. Obstacles cannot be placed
on rivers and lakes. An Obstacle placed on a road requires that
an additional identical Travel Card be played for that particular
road.
The players take turns
to place one of their
Counters face up 
on a road.
Only one
Counter may be placed
per road.
The Transportation
Charts indicate which
Counters may be used
on which road.
Counters may be used
by all players.
Road
not suited
Counter
4. Plan the travel routes
Not
possible!
An Obstacle may be
placed instead of a
only once by each
player.
Obstacles must not be
placed on rivers and
lakes.
An Obstacle on a road
requires that an
additional identical
Travel Card be played.
The chosen 
must be suited for
traveling in that region.
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 7

Example 1:
A Troll Wagon and an 
Obstacle are placed on a 
desert road. If the player 
wants to use this road, 
he must play three 
Troll Wagon Travel Cards.
A player is not required to place a Transportation Counter or an
Obstacle. He may pass his turn.
A player may pass one turn and place a Transportation Counter
on a later turn. However, if all players pass consecutively, the
phase ends.
5. Move the Elf Boots
A player moves his Elf Boot along the roads or rivers from town
to town. The object is to collect his own Town Pieces.
Traveling On Roads
Each player may use each Transportation Counter on the board
when he moves his Elf Boot. Beginning with the Starting Player,
each player may move his Elf Boot along as many roads as
desired, provided the following requirements are met:
1. The traveled road must have a Transportation Counter on it. 
2. The player must play a Travel Card that matches the
Transportation Counter. For example, a Unicorn card for a
road with a Unicorn Transportation Counter.
3. If a Travel Card indicates a double region symbol, the player
is required to play two identical Travel Cards for this
Transportation Counter in order to move his Elf Boot on this
road.
4. If the traveled road is blocked by an Obstacle, the player
has to play an additional identical Travel Card.
A player’s turn is finished when he cannot or does not want to
play another Travel Card.
Instead of placing a
transportation counter,
you can pass. When all
players have passed
consecutively, this
phase ends.
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 8

Example 2:
Chris wants to travel fro m
Feodor via Lapphálya to Vi r s t .
On the road in the woods fro m
Feodor to Lapphálya he comes
a c ross an Obstacle and a 
Dragon Transportation Counter.
Since the Dragon demands two
Dragon Travel Cards for flying
over the woods, Chris is re q u i re d
to play three Dragon Tr a v e l
C a rds for this road. Then he
continues through the plains to
Virst. On the plains road he
finds an Elfcycle. Since Chris
can easily travel through the flat
plains with an Elfcycle, one
Elfcycle Travel Card is suff i c i e n t
to travel to Vi r s t .
Traveling On Rivers
For Raft Travel Cards there is no Transportation Counter.
A player moves his Elf Boot on a river by simply playing the
number of Raft Travel Cards indicated on the Transportation
Chart.
Obstacles cannot be placed on rivers and lakes.
Example 3:
Brandy (green) wants to travel on the river in the direction
indicated by the arrow from Virst to Ixara. For this route, she
is required to play one Raft Travel Card. John (blue) wants to
travel upriver from Ixara to Virst. However, since he is
traveling in the opposite direction indicated by the arrow, he
has to play two Raft Travel Cards.
To travel downriver,
you need one Raft
Travel Card. 
To travel upriver,
however, you need two
Raft Travel Cards.
Brandy
John
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 9

Traveling Back And Forth
On his turn, a player may move from town to town on as many
roads as he wishes, provided he can play the matching Travel
Cards for each road. A player may also use the same road more
than once on his turn. However, each time he uses that road,
he must play the required Travel Cards.
Collecting Town Pieces
For each town a player reaches, he takes his Town Piece and
places it in front of him. He also takes the piece from the town
where he ends his turn.
All played Travel Cards are placed on the Travel Card stack next
to the board. If a player holds more than four Travel Cards in
his hand at the end of his turn, he has to immediately reduce
his number of cards to four. The leftover cards are also placed
on the Travel Card stack.
One road may be used
several times on one
turn if the matching
Travel Cards are played.
When a player reaches a
town, he collects his
Town Piece and places
it in front of him.
At the end of a player’s
turn, the number of
cards he holds in his
hand is reduced
to four.
Example 4:
On the road in the woods from Dag´Amura to Kihromah 
the type of transportation is a Magic Cloud. Therefore, Chris
must play four Magic Cloud Travel Cards to travel from
Dag´Amura to Kihromah and back.
+
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 10

Special Moves
A) Caravan
If a player cannot play the Travel Card(s) required by the type of
transportation, he can play any three Travel Cards (including Raft
Travel Cards) instead. This move is called a “Caravan”. “Caravans”
only move on roads that provide a type of transportation.
Caravans do not travel on rivers and lakes. If there is an Obstacle
on the road, the player must play any four instead of three Travel
Cards.
B) Ferries
Both of the two great lakes, “Mare Magnum” and “Mare Nebulae”,
can be crossed by ferry. To use them, you are required to play
two Raft Travel Cards for each move from one town to the next.
Use the ferries to travel back and forth between Virst, Strykhaven
and Elvenhold, or between Grangor, Yttar and Parundia.
6. Finish the round
After all of the players have moved their Elf Boots, the
following actions take place:
The Starting Player puts the top Round Card beneath the stack.
He then passes the Starting Player Card to the next player to his
left who becomes the new Starting Player.
Each player must now turn in all of his Transportation Counters
except one which can be secret or face up. 
Remove the Transportation Counters from the board and mix
them thoroughly face down with those turned in and the face
down ones next to the board. The face up Transportation
Counters remain face up and are not turned face down and
shuffled with rest.
Used Obstacle Cards are removed from the game entirely. 
Instead of playing the
required Travel Card(s),
you can play any three
Travel Cards instead as
a “Caravan”. The cards
played may be of any
combination of
transportation types.
If you want to use a
ferry to travel across
one of the great lakes,
you have to play two
Raft Cards to get from
one town to the next.
The Round Cards are
changed and the
Starting Player Card is
passed to the left. The
Counters on the board
are shuffled in with the
face down ones next to
the board. 
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 11

End of Game
Elfenland ends after the fourth round. The player who
collected the most Town Pieces wins. If two or more players
have the same number of Town Pieces, the player holding the
most Travel Cards in his hands wins.
If one player collects all of his Town Pieces before the end of
the third round, he wins.
Variation
At the beginning of the game, shuffle the twelve Town Cards
and deal one card face down to each player. The remaining
Town Cards are not needed in this variation. The object is for
each player to now collect his Town Pieces and have his travel
route end in the town indicated on his town card, or in a town
as close as possible. All other rules remain the same. When the
game ends, all players uncover their Town Cards and count
how many towns they are away from their destination (shortest
distance). This number is then subtracted from the number of
the collected Town Pieces. The player with the highest score
wins. In case two or more players score the same, the player
who is closest to the town on his Town Card wins.
The player who collects
the most Town Pieces
after 4 rounds wins. If
two or more players
have the same number
of Town Pieces, the
player with the most
Travel Cards wins.
© AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, D-63128 Dietzenbach, MCMXCIX
Version E.1
Any questions? We are pleased to help you:
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
Email: RioGames@aol.com
www.riograndegames.com
Example 5:
Brandy visited 17 towns and ends the game in Throtmanni.
Her Town Card, however, indicates Jaccaranda. Brandy is
only one town away from Jaccaranda. She subtracts one from
her 17 Town Pieces and scores 16.
ELrulen 7/23/2000 10:48 AM Page 12