Take on the role of an ambitious demigod who is trying to claim a place 
at the summit of mount Olympus. Recruit Heroes, acquire Artifacts, 
and undertake heroic Quests to forge your own Legends. 
During the ﬁve Epochs of the game, you will build powerful card 
combinations and then destroy them, as the cards must be transferred 
to your Elysium to earn you Victory Points.

8 Families of 21 cards
All 168 backs are identical and show a Citizen
4 Player Boards
4 Player Aid cards
1 Temple (two parts)
1 Pediment board (double-sided)
Contents
40 Gold tokens
x 25
x 15
19 Bonus tiles
3 Level Legends Bonuses
16 Family Legends Bonuses (2 for each Family)
x 15
x 10
25 Prestige point tokens (PP)
x 25
x 20
45 Victory Point tokens (VP)
1 Guide to the cards booklet
Descriptions of the cards and clarification of their powers
1 Oracle boarD 
1 Steps board
Back
4 Order of Play Discs 
16 Columns
The stickers are optional, and are designed to make the game easier for colorblind people
1 Epoch Marker
12 Trigger Rings
6 Quest Tiles 
All 6 backs are identical and show an Incomplete Quest
Back

Setup
7 Give Disc #1 to a random 
player. That player is the start 
player in the first Epoch. 
Proceeding clockwise, give the 
other Discs to the other players 
in ascending order.
Put any unused Disc back 
in the box.
1 Place the Pediment beside 
the play area. Randomly choose 
one of the sides to lay face-up.
2 Place the 4 Quests with the 
 
mark below the Pediment, in ascending 
order from left to right (this setup is used 
for 3 and 4 players).
5 Place all the Gold, Victory Points (VP) 
and Trigger rings in a common reserve.
3 Place the Steps below the Quests.
6 Each player takes a player 
board. Assemble your board 
in front of you.
8 Each player takes 4 Gold. 
Place your Gold on your board.
9 Each player takes one 
Column of each color. 
Place your Columns on 
your board. Put any unused 
Columns back in the box.
10 Each player takes a number
of VP equal to the number 
on their Disc. The player with 
Disc #1 takes 1 VP, the player with 
Disc #2 takes 2 VP and so on.
13 Lay out the 3 Level Bonus tiles 
and the 10 Family Bonus tiles 
matching the 5 chosen Families.
12 Place the remaining cards face-down to 
form the draw pile. Leave space beside 
the draw pile for a discard pile.
4 Place the Epoch marker on 
the first space of the Epoch track.
Let’s explore the Greece of Legend!
11 Choose 5 of the 8 available Families. 
Put the cards from the 3 unused Families back in the box. 
The set of Families you choose has an impact 
on the style of play, so we strongly recommand 
using the following Families for your first game :
Athena 
, Hades 
, Hephaestus 
, 
Poseidon 
, Zeus 
.
Take the 105 cards of the chosen Families and shuffle them carefully 
face-down. Draw a number of cards equal to 1 plus 3 times the number 
of players (for example, with 3 players draw 10 cards) and place them 
face-up in middle of the play area to form the AGORA.
The AGORA

Clariﬁcations
Anatomy of a card
Each card contains several important pieces of information, which are detailed here:
This number indicates 
the Level of the card, 
which varies from 1 to 3.
The color of the card is a 
reminder of which Family it 
belongs to (Hades in this case).
The activation symbol 
shows when and how 
to activate the power of a card 
(explained later).
The Acquisition Condition 
shows the color(s) of the Column(s) 
required to take the card.
Black means “any color”.
Order of play
Gold
Transfers
Victory Points 
(VP)
Power of the card. 
Important: players can only use 
the power of a card when that 
card lies in their DOMAIN.
The artist’s name.
The card name.
The symbol is also a reminder.
Some cards have the ELEUSIS 
symbol 
 and are called Eleusis 
cards. These cards combine 
with other Eleusis cards 
to generate powers.
CITIZENS
The back of the cards of all 8 Families show a Citizen. When you “take a Citizen”, take 
the top card from the draw pile and place it face-down in your DOMAIN. This card is 
now a Citizen for the rest of the game. A Citizen will never be turned over, and no player 
may look at that card’s face-up side.
QUEST
If the Ares Family is in play, 
place all the Prestige Points (PP) 
in the common reserve.
The area above your board 
is your DOMAIN, and the area 
below is your ELYSIUM.
If the Apollo Family is in play, 
then so is the Oracle. 
Place the Oracle above the Temple. 
Place 4 face-up cards below 
the Oracle during setup.
With 2 players, only use 
the 2 Quests with the 
 mark. 
Place them so that each Quest 
is below 2 colors.
There are no other changes 
to the rules for different 
numbers of players.
Your DOMAIN
Your ELYSIUM

The goal of the game is to earn as many Victory Points (VP) as possible. Victory Points are won mostly with the Legends 
players will write, using the cards they transfer to their ELYSIUM, and also throughout the game using the power of specific cards. 
Game Overview
A game is played over 5 Epochs. Each Epoch is divided into 4 Phases:
Phase II: Actions
Phase IV: end of epoch
Phase III: Writing the Legends
Phase I: Awakening
goal of the Game
Phase II: Actions
Here, you’re missing 
the green one, so you have 
no way of getting this card.
You’re good here, as your red 
Column is still on your board.
For this card, you need the blue 
Column, plus 1 more of your choice. 
You’re all set.
With 2 players, taking a Quest is
easier: you merely need to possess one 
of the two colors displayed above it.
The Acquisition Condition of a Quest 
is found above it, on the Pediment.
Phase I: Awakening
Proceed in order: 
1 Remove from the Agora any cards remaining from the previous Epoch and 
place them face-up in the discard pile beside the draw pile. 
Skip step 1 and 2 in the first Epoch.
2 Draw cards from the draw pile and place them face-up in the Agora, until 
there is a number equal to 1 plus 3 times the number of players, meaning: 
• with 2 players, 7 cards; 
• with 3 players, 10 cards; 
• with 4 players, 13 cards.
If the Apollo Family is in play, then the Oracle is, too: 
• After step 1, slide any remaining cards from the Oracle to the AGORA;
• After step 2, add 4 new cards face-up from the draw pile to the Oracle. 
The Oracle therefore allows players to see some of the cards that will be 
available in the next Epoch.
• The player with Disc #1 goes first. Play then continues following the ascending numbers 
on the players’ Discs. 
• On your turn, you must take either 1 Quest tile or 1 Family card. During your 4 turns, 
you must take exactly 1 Quest and 3 cards.
To take a Quest or a Family card, you must have on your board the Column(s) matching 
the Acquisition Condition. 
It is forbidden for any player to have two identical cards 
(with the same illustration) in their DOMAIN. 

When you take your Quest, 
place it beside your board.
• Once you’ve taken a card or a Quest, you must dismiss one (and only one) of your Columns by removing it 
from your board. You can dismiss any Column, not necessarily one shown on the Acquisition Condition.
Note: No matter what the Acquisition 
Condition of a card may be, you only 
ever dismiss 1 single Column of a color 
of your choice.
• After your 4 turns, you should have taken exactly 1 Quest tile and 3 cards, and dismissed all of your Columns. 
This can bring about two kinds of special situations:
If you can’t fulfill the Acquisition Condition of any remaining Family card, you must 
instead take a Citizen. Take the top card from the draw pile and place it face-down 
in your DOMAIN. 
You can’t take a Citizen if you are still able to take a Family card, or if you have not taken 
a Quest but are still able to do so.
If you can’t fulfill the Acquisition Condition of any remaining Quest, you do not take a 
Quest during this Epoch. Instead, after you have taken your 3 cards, you must pass your 
turn. Once all players have completed their turns, you receive one of the remaining Quests, 
but must flip it to its Incomplete Quest side. 
When you take a card, 
immediately place it 
in your DOMAIN.

Using a power in Phase II
During your turn, you may use the powers of the cards in your DOMAIN. 
• You can’t use the power of a card that you have transferred to your 
ELYSIUM (see later).
• You may use the powers of multiple cards in your DOMAIN during a single turn.
• You can’t use the Trigger, Activate and Eleusis powers of your cards during 
another player’s turn.
• If you use a power to transfer a card, you must follow the Rules of Legends 
on pp. 8-9.
• The power of each card can only be used in a specific way, shown by the card’s 
activation symbol. The powers available during Phase III are explained later.
Instantaneous
The power must be used at the exact moment you take 
the card (and only then).
EleusiS
You may only activate an Eleusis card if you have at least 
1 other Eleusis card in your DOMAIN. If not, you can’t 
use the power of the card.
Permanent
The power is always active, as long as the card is in 
your DOMAIN.
Trigger
The power can be used once during the game, as long as 
the card is in your DOMAIN.
When you take 
a Trigger card, 
immediately place 
a Trigger ring 
on its activation 
symbol.
When you decide 
to use the power, 
remove the Trigger 
ring and return it 
to the common 
reserve.
Activate
The power can be used once during every Epoch, as long as the 
card is in your DOMAIN.
Turn the card 90° when 
you use its power. 
During the next End of 
Epoch Phase, straighten 
it up. The power will be 
available again during the 
following Epoch.
If the power of any card creates a conflict with the general rules, the specific 
power of that card takes precedence. This is true for all card powers in the game.
If a player uses the power on an Athena card that allows 
other players to transfer cards, the current player has the 
opportunity to transfer a card first, and then all other players 
may transfer a card in current player order.

Once all players have completed their turns in Phase II, the Epoch continues with 
Phase III: Writing the Legends. In this phase, you allocate the turn order for the 
next Epoch, receive VP and Gold for your Quest, and can then transfer cards from 
your DOMAIN into your ELYSIUM and so create and complete your Legends, 
which will earn you most of your victory points at the end of the game.
1) Allocate order of play Discs
First, reallocate the Discs according to the Quests taken by the players in Phase 
II. The player with Quest #1 receives Disc #1, and so on. 
Incomplete Quests 
A player with an Incomplete Quest automatically gets the Disc with the 
highest number. If there are multiple players with Incomplete Quests, their 
current Discs are used to break the tie. 
Example: In the current Epoch of a 4- player game, Sebastian has Disc #1 and 
Christopher has Disc #3. Both of these players took Incomplete Quests. When the 
Discs are reallocated, Sebastian receives Disc #3 and Christopher receives Disc #4.
2) Receive VP and Gold
All players receive the VP and Gold shown on their Quest.
3) Transfer cards 
 Finally, following the new order of play determined by the Discs, each player 
may transfer cards from their DOMAIN to their ELYSIUM. 
• The number of cards you can transfer is limited to the number shown in the 
Lyre symbol on your Quest. 
• Every transfer costs Gold. The cost to transfer any card is equal to its Level 
(1, 2, or 3). Return any Gold spent to the common reserve. 
• Every card transferred into your ELYSIUM must follow the Rules of Legends 
explained on the opposite page. 
Place all the Quest tiles back in the Temple, face up below the Pediment, 
in ascending order from left to right.
Phase III: Writing the Legends
Legend
The power can be used during Phase III, as long as the card 
is in your DOMAIN. 
Permanent
Some permanent powers can also be used during Phase III, 
as long as the card is in your DOMAIN. 
USING A POWER IN PHASE III
RULES OF LEGENDS
Every transfer costs Gold equal to the Level of the card, and moves the card from your DOMAIN to your ELYSIUM. 
Every time you transfer a card you must choose whether to start writing a new Legend, or to add the card to an existing Legend, possibly completing it.
There are two kinds of Legends: Level Legends and Family Legends.
Level Legends
Level Legends can only include cards of the same Level, but of different Families. 
A Level Legend is made of a maximum of 5 cards, one from each of the Families.
Level 2 Legend.
Level 1 Legend.
A completed 
Level 3 Legend.

Legend Bonuses
The first player to complete a Family Legend gets the matching Bonus 
tile worth 5 VP. The second player to complete a Legend of the same 
Family gets the matching Bonus tile worth 2 VP. 
Subsequent players get nothing. 
It is possible to get both Bonus tiles if you complete two Legends 
of that Family before any other player completes one. 
For each Level Legend, the first player to write 
a Legend of at least 2 cards gets the matching Bonus tile. 
If another player writes a Legend of the same Level 
containing more cards than the player with the matching 
Bonus tile, that player steals the Bonus. 
Each Level Legend Bonus tile can therefore change owners multiple times, 
unless a player completes a matching Level Legend with 5 cards, which is 
impossible to beat. 
Family Legends
Adding Citizens to Legends
Writing Legends
Family Legends can only include cards of same Family, but of different Levels. 
A Family Legend is made up of a maximum of 3 cards, one of each of the Levels.
A Citizen can also be transferred into your ELYSIUM and added to a Legend, but 
only when that Legend already contains at least 2 cards. The Citizen takes the 
place of one Family card missing from that Legend. The cost in Gold to transfer a 
Citizen is always equal to the Level of the missing card.
Citizens are therefore a form of ‘joker’. But be careful: There is a price to be paid! 
Each Citizen in your ELYSIUM at the end of the game will cost you 2 VP.
• You can add cards to individual Legends in any order. You could start a Family 
Legend with a Level 2 card, then add a Level 1 card, and finally complete it with 
a Level 3 card.
• You may have any number of incomplete Legends at any time. You do not need 
to complete one before starting another.
• Once added to a Legend, a card can never be moved to a different Legend or 
discarded. A single card in your ELYSIUM can never be added to another 
incomplete Legend later.
• You may transfer a card with a Trigger ring. If you do, return the ring to the 
common reserve.
• Single cards in your ELYSIUM at the end of the game will be removed and are 
not worth any victory points.
Level 1 card in this 
Level Legend. 
The transfer costs 
1 Gold.
Level 2 card in this 
Family Legend. 
The transfer costs 
2 Gold.
card in this Level 3 
Legend and completes 
it. The transfer costs 
3 Gold.
Zeus Legend.
A completed 
Athena Legend.

When all players have completed their transfers, prepare for the next 
Epoch as follows:
• Place your 4 Columns back on your board.
• Straighten up any Activate cards in your DOMAIN.
• Move the Epoch marker one space along the Epoch track.
• Begin the next Epoch with Phase I: Awakening. 
The game ends at the end of the fifth Epoch. When this happens, 
continue with final scoring.
Phase IV: end of epoch
Final Scoring
You’re ready for your ﬁrst elysium game 
Once you’ve played a few games, we suggest you try different Family sets.
Chronos PowerS
This is when you can use these powers to gain bonus victory points. Chronos cards must 
be in a Legend to score victory points. The ‘equal’ (=) and ‘not equal’ (≠) symbols remind 
you of the optimal use of the power: in a Family Legend or Level Legend, respectively.
Then, each Legend is worth victory points as follows:
Each Family Legend: 2 cards = 3 VP / 3 cards = 6 VP
Each Level Legend: 2 cards = 2 VP / 3 cards = 4 VP / 4 cards = 8 VP / 5 cards = 12 VP
Add all the points scored from your Chronos powers, Legends and PP to the VP you gained during the game. 
Finally, you must discard 2 VP for each Citizen in your Legends. Then compare your final scores.
The player with the highest score wins. In case of a tie, the player who has the most Gold remaining among the tied players wins. 
If there is still a tie, the tied players’ share a victory.
Start by removing from the game all cards in players’ DOMAINS, and all single cards in players’ ELYSIUMS (only Legends that contain at 
least 2 cards are worth VP). Do not put these cards in the discard pile. Instead, remove them from the game.
If the Ares Family was in play, some players will also have gained Prestige Points (PP) 
during the game. These are also worth victory points as follows:
The player with the most PP scores 16 VP. The next player scores 8 VP, then 4 VP, then 2 VP. 
In case of a tie, share the cumulative VP of the tied players positions.
Important: A player with no PP scores no extra VP!
Each game of Elysium is different, even if you play with the same 
families of Gods. However, it would be a pity to not vary the fun, as 
the powers of the cards are quite different and deeply change the feel 
of the game. Thus, we are presenting you some family “sets”, which 
we’ve particularly enjoyed or which create a special play environment. 
After multiple games, you’ll know which ones suit you the best, and 
will be able to create your own sets! Don’t hesitate to tell us about 
them on the Space Cowboys webpage dedicated to Elysium.
The “Opulence” set, for those who like high scores: 
Ares, Athena, Hephaestus, Hermes, Zeus.
The “Misfortune befalls the vanquished” set, for those who like 
aggressive interaction and fierce competition: Ares, Hades, 
Hephaestus, Hermes, Poseidon.
The “Wasteland” set, for players who like difficulty and tight 
scores: Apollo, Ares, Hades, Hermes, Poseidon.
The “Deadly plots” set, for those who like spectacular combos: 
Apollo, Athena, Hades, Hephaestus, Hermes.
The “Why bother with Elysium?” set, for players who like to find 
alternate ways to win: Apollo, Ares, Athena, Poseidon, Zeus.

Credits
Cari
Surrounded by testosterone and dubious jokes, Cari has spent six years animating 
3D monsters, guns, and large robots for the videogame industry. After that, she 
finally decided to come back to her original love: drawing. Elysium is her very first 
project as a professional illustrator, so be indulgent! Even if as a rule of thumb she 
prefers to draw pinups with well-developed “character”, Cari has still appreciated 
working with this nice spread of artists, each more talented than the last, and 
would liketo greatly thank Philippe Mouret for having given her this chance. 
See you next time!
John McCambridge
As the song says, I’m a bit of a Wild Rover; I was born in Ballycastle, in the county 
of Antrim, in Northern Ireland. I moved to France after having finished university 
and have worked as both a freelance artist and as a concept artist in the videogame 
industry. I returned to the United Kingdom in 2006 before settling in Warsaw in 
Poland for a few years. Nonetheless, I’ve always kept touch with France as it’s a central 
point for creation and I’ve continued to work on covers for comic books (Durandal 
and Troie for Soleil Editions). I’ve grown up with folk legends which have given me 
a passion for history and legends from around the world. So for this project, it was 
great to work with the Space Cowboys team and alongside other highly talented 
artists; Elysium has been an incredible project for me, combining many of my 
passions: legends, mythology, and Greek history. On a personal note, I now live in the 
Cambridgeshire, the flat land in the east of England, with my partner Sarah and my 
son Fergus who keeps me very busy.
Vincent Dutrait
Working with paint and brushes on paper for two decades, I learned illustration 
at the Emile Cohl school, where I went back to teach afterward. I’ve developed 
my favored themes, which are fantasy and adventure in youth publishing, and in 
the world of roleplaying. This allows me to take part in surprising projects such as 
Elysium, crafted by many hands, uniting busy worlds and different writing styles!
Pascal Quidault
After having worn out a few stylus leads in the refined and upscale world of jewelry 
with Splendor, the urge and the desire to dive into more playful, childish, and 
colored worlds was making itself seriously felt.
So it’s without a moment’s hesitation that to illustrate my part of the Elysium 
project, I’ve chosen Hades: the God of the Dead. A lot of fun, tons of sparkles, some 
balloons, and… errr… wait up, I ah….” 
Didier Poli
After a few years spent sharpening my weapons at Emile Cohl and then with 
the Gobelins, it was in the field of animation that I had my first few skirmishes. 
I’ve since been found on many battlefields (comics, video games, boardgames, 
advertising ...) with a few feats of which I’m rather proud. For a few years now, 
I’ve more specifically oriented myself in an artistic direction, but I won’t turn down, 
as in this case, the chance to come play in my illustrator colleagues’ playground. 
As a huge fan of Greek mythology, Elysium was the perfect project for me... 
and what a team! It is an honor to be among these people - thank you Philippe. 
Emmanuel Roudier
Hello players! What pleasure to put aside my prehistoric characters to illustrate 
these few cards for Elysium. And what cards! Could anyone dream of a 
better guy than Hermes, the kewlest of all of Olympus’ gods, the most chic with 
his hat and his Italian shoes, and also the most mysterious (those who have 
been initiated will understand me…)? It was a true pleasure to come back to 
illustrate a boardgame after more than ten years. I felt like I really had the soul 
of a Space Cowboy and would like to deeply thank Philippe Mouret for having 
invited me as the shuttle’s engines were already beginning to heat up! Have fun. 
© Chloé Vollmer-Lo
ÉRIC Bourgier
These small incursions into boardgaming are always really fun and remain 
moments of true freedom, even of investigation, into my job: drawing. Coming 
from the world of comics, drawing is certainly a thing, but the creation of an 
illustration creates a strong, dense, and brief moment. A moment where the 
excitement of the first years comes back in a flash. Thanks, therefore, to these young 
Space Cowboys (well… young-ish) for this game which, I hope, will enchant you, 
and now, on your marks, get set, play!
Sylvain Guinebaud / Bruno Tatti
Sylvain Guinebaud, born in 1973, is a cartoonist and illustrator. After obtaining a 
degree in Visual Arts, he has worked with with François Froideval, Ange, Nicolas 
Mitric or even Herik Hanna on various comic projects. He’s also worked on various 
games such as “Guardians Chronicles”, “Pina Pirata”, “Eden”, “Drakerys”, etc.
Bruno Tatti alias Stambecco is a colorist / illustrator. Self-taught, he entered the 
Gobelins to perfect his visual arts knowledge and broaden his horizons. One thing 
led to another, and he entered the world of comics as a colorist, all while making 
small detours to try youth / press illustration, etc…
Matthew Dunstan
My life in gaming probably started when my aunt gave me a portable chess set 
when I was 7, and my fellow students and teachers whom I forced to play with me 
during school breaks would not be surprised at all with my current pastime! Despite 
growing up in a rather small rural town you’ve never heard of in Australia (Muswellbrook), I would be 
fortunate enough for a copy of Settlers of Catan to make it halfway around the world to a friend’s 
house one summer, and from there I was hooked. Moving to Cambridge in 2010 gave me a chance to 
meet Brett, and despite bickering like an old couple at times, I think we’ve become a great design team 
(as long as you let Brett play red). Elysium is the first physical incarnation of our combined efforts, 
and first and foremost I have to thank Brett for just being such excellent company and an even better 
design partner. A close second is the team at Space Cowboys, who have poured their passion and 
precision to make such a beautiful game, and all of the selfless playtesters in Cambridge and London. 
Finally I would like to thank my family and Terezie for putting up with all of my nonsense (which is 
hopefully balanced by an equal amount of love!).
Brett J. Gilbert
The good folks at Space Cowboys have asked me to write about myself. I’d rather 
write about them: Matt and I owe them all a huge debt of gratitude for their faith 
in our ideas, and for their incredibly creative development of Elysium, which has 
transformed our game into something mythic, delightful and ultimately beautiful. As for my co- 
designer and Essen comrade Matt: without his talent and enthusiasm the game would simply not have 
been possible. Collaboration is a form of creative conflict, one that flourishes not through compromise, 
but with the humility of knowing that other guy’s idea is better than your own. But the outcome of 
this curiously playful struggle is never certain, which is why it is genuinely thrilling to write these 
words knowing the day of reckoning (well, publication!) is close at hand. Thanks must also go to the 
many cheerfully willing playtesters who helped us find our way, especially the eclectic, eccentric and 
typically hard-to-impress members of Playtest UK in Cambridge and London; you know who you 
are! And as for myself: although there may be much to tell, I have now sadly run out of space within 
which to tell it…

ICONOGRAPHY
some rules you may forget
= gold
= any card
= Card of a speciﬁc 
family (here Athena)
= Citizen
= Card in a domain
= card in an elysium
= victory Point (VP)
= cards in 
the discard pilE
= Prestige Point (PP)
= card in the oracle
= Transfer
= choose one or 
the other
= free transfer
= Transfer with an 
increased cost of 1
= Receive (here 1 Gold)
= transferred card 
(here Apollo)
= taken card (here Athena)
= give (here 1 Gold)
= Pay / discard (here 1 Gold)
= choose (here a card)
= add a card
= Discard a card
= exchange
= Permanent power
= Instantaneous power
= Activate power
= trigger power
= Legend power
= Chronos power
= Chronos power, 
optimal use in a family 
legend
= Chronos power, 
optimal use in a level 
legend
= Eleusis power
= you need a green 
column
= AT least 2 
(here at least 2 Transfers)
#1
= the player with the 
most of… (here Gold)
= draw a card and take it 
face-up in your domain
= use a speciﬁc power of a 
card (here Instantaneous)
you
all other 
players
= none (here no Citizen)
= at least 1 
1+
= or any other similar item
= to have as many as 
= no effect
• When you take a card or a Quest, you must discard one Column (and only one) 
from among those still remaining on your board. You can dismiss any Column, 
not necessarily one shown on the Acquisition Condition.
• You can’t have two or more identical cards (with the same artwork) in your Domain.
• Every time you transfer a card, you must pay for it! A transfer costs Gold equal 
to the Level of the card.
• You can only transfer a Citizen to your Elysium if you can add it to a Legend 
already containing at least two cards.
• You can’t use a power during another player’s turn.
• If you don’t have any prestige points (PP), Ares doesn’t give you any VP. 
• A card in your Domain may be affected by its own power. For example, a Hermes 
card which gives 1 Gold when you transfer a Hermes card will give you 1 Gold if 
you transfer the card itself!
• If you are able to take a card or a Quest, you can’t choose to take a Citizen.
• You only take an Incomplete Quest after all players have completed their turns.
• Always reallocate the order of play Discs at the BEGINNING of the Writing of 
Legends Phase. It may be important for gaining or keeping Level or Family Bonuses.
• A single card in your Elysium is removed at the end of the game, and is not worth 
any victory points.
Elysium is published by JD Éditions - SPACE Cowboys: 238, rue des frères Farman, 78530 BUC - France
© 2014 SPACE Cowboys. All rights reserved
www.spacecowboys.fr