Designed and Created by Glenn Drover
Inspired by the computer game Age of Empires III published by Microsoft and Ensemble Studios
Licensed from Microsoft and Ensemble Studios
This game is dedicated to my son Ethan.
© 2007 Glenn Drover and Tropical Games
Age of Empires, Ensemble Studios, and the Microsoft Game Studios logo 
are registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States 
and/or other countries and are used under license from Microsoft.

Introduction
It is the late 15th century and a new age is dawning. While 
searching for a new trade route to India, European explorers have 
discovered a new land. The first reports tell of strange people, 
exotic creatures, and fabulous wealth. Captains and adventurers 
flock to these new lands in search of gold. They are quickly 
followed by colonists, soldiers, merchants, and missionaries all 
seeking wealth of one kind or another. Colonies begin to spring 
up, and soon competition between the great nations of Europe 
begins. 
Take the role of one of Europe’s colonial powers and stake your 
claim in the New World. As the leader of your nation, there 
are many paths that lead to victory: Discover and colonize new 
lands; acquire trade goods and build your economy; develop new 
technologies and infrastructure in your home country; build 
your merchant fleet to dominate the trade routes; and build 
your army to defend what is rightfully yours! 
The triumphant revel in riches and glory, while the vanquished 
become a footnote in the history books. It is an Age of 
Discovery, it is an Age of Empires!
I. Components
Gameboard The map of the North and South American 
continents on the left side of the board is separated into 9 
regions. Each region has a trade good associated with it (for 
example Peru has silver). On the right side of the board are the 
event boxes. During the game, players place their colonists in 
these boxes to perform different actions. 
Capital Buildings Each capital building has an Age (I, II or III) 
noted on the back of the tile. This is the age during which the 
building is available. Capital buildings give the owner special 
bonuses (such as colonists, specialists, gold, or victory points). 
Colonists (30 of each color: red, yellow, green, blue, and orange) 
Colonists are the basic unit of the game. They are placed in the 
event boxes during the turn to claim the space and perform the 
action depicted in the event box. 
Specialists (Captain x 5 per color; Merchant x 5 per color, 
Missionary x 10 per color, Soldier x 10 per color) Specialists can 
perform the same function as the basic colonists but also have 
unique extra abilities.
Merchant Ships (10 Caravel Miniatures) One ship is used as the 
Turn Marker and one is used to mark the unavailable spaces on 
the colonist dock. The other 8 units represent sea faring trade, 
and can be combined with Trade Goods to form “sets” that 
generate income. 
Regions
Event 
Boxes
Turn
x 30
x 5
x 5

Money 50 silver “Pieces of Eight” coins (each silver coin has a 
value = 1 Spanish Dollar) , 40 gold “doubloon” coins (each gold 
coin has a value = 10 Spanish Dollars)
Trade Goods (gold x 5, silver x 6, cattle x 3, cocoa x 3, fish x 3, 
sugar x 6, fur x 4, coffee x 4, tobacco x 5, rice x 3, indigo x 4). 
These are used to represent the trade conducted by each Colonial 
Empire. The number on the counter shows the quantity of each 
trade good in the game. 
Discovery Counter (16 cardboard counters) These are used to 
determine the danger and reward for discovering each region.
Discovery Deck (16 cards) These are used after all of the regions 
on the board have been discovered. They represent discoveries 
beyond the early colonies.
$1
$10
Native Americans
Extra Conquistador 
II. Setup/Starting the Game
Players: Each player chooses a color and places the pieces in that 
color near them (the “unused supply” of pieces). Each player 
gets 10 Spanish Dollars (10 silver coins or 1 gold coin) and 
five basic colonists to start. One extra colonist from each player 
is placed (in random order) in the “Turn Order” Area at the 
beginning of the game (see Initial Starting Order below).
The Board: In each Region (except the Caribbean) place one 
random discovery counter face down. The Caribbean Region is 
available for colonization from the beginning of the game, and so 
does not need a discovery counter. In addition, place one trade 
good face up in each region. The trade good for each region is 
identified on the game board; for example Peru will have one 
silver trade good placed in its region at the start of every game.
Capital Buildings: Separate the capital buildings into the three 
ages (as noted by the icons I, II, and III on the back of the capital 
building tiles) and place them face down in three piles (one pile 
per age). Randomly draw five Age I capital buildings and place 
them face up at the top of the board.
Trade Goods: Place the remaining trade goods face down near 
the gameboard and mix them together. Randomly draw four 
trade goods from the pile of unselected trade good counters and 
place them face up beside the Trade Goods event box on 
the board.
Merchant Ship: Place a Merchant Ship in the Merchant 
Shipping Box.
Colonist Dock: There is only a limited number of Colonist 
Dock spaces that are available during the game. (The number 
of available spaces is equal to two times the number of players 
minus one (2xPlayers-1).) Place a Merchant Ship on the first 
unused space of the colonist dock to show which spaces are not 
available. For example in a 5 player game, 9 spaces would be 
available, so the 10, 11 and 12 spaces would be blocked off. The 
X and Y spaces are left open and are available only to the player 
that owns the related special capital building.
Initial Starting Order: One Colonist piece for each player color 
is placed in random order to determine the turn order for the 
start of the game. The player who is 1st gets no extra money, 
however, the 2nd player gets $1 extra (in addition to the $10 that 
she started with), the 3rd player gets an extra $2, the 4th player 
gets an extra $3, and so on. 

c.	 Specialist Event Box: Place a colonist in the slot of the 
particular specialist desired. A total of 5 specialists are 
available each turn (there is 1 of each specialist available 
plus, if a player wishes, he/she can pay five gold to train 
one specialist of any kind).
	
Colonists and specialists are placed in this manner until all 
players have none remaining. Players may not save colonists 
or specialists for the next round. 
	
Note: Some players may have more colonists and specialists 
than others due to Capital Buildings and specialists acquired 
from the specialist box in the previous turn. These extra 
colonists are played in player turn order along with the 
starting five colonists until there are none remaining. 
 
B.	 Resolution: Each event box is resolved one at a time from top 
to bottom ( Initiative first, Colonist Dock second, Trade Goods 
third, then Merchant Shipping, Capital Building, Discovery, 
Specialist and finally Warfare according to the special rules for 
each box (see Event Boxes below). After each of the Trade 
Goods, Merchant Shipping, Capital Building, Specialist and 
Warfare boxes have been resolved, remove all the colonists 
and specialists from these boxes and return them to the 
owning players unused supply. 
	
Exception: Colonists and specialists are not removed from the 
Discovery box except when sent on expeditions of discovery. 
After all of the event boxes have been resolved, players receive the 
following benefits:
C.	 Income: All Income from Trade Goods/ Merchant Ships is 
collected by the players.
D.	Capital Building Benefits: All recurring benefits (those that 
are generated each turn) from Capital Buildings are taken by 
the owning players.
The turn is completed with the following:
E.	 Refresh Capital Buildings: Refresh the number of capital 
buildings (drawing them randomly from the correct stack of 
face down counters and placing them face up on the board) 
so that there are five capital buildings available for purchase 
at the beginning of each turn. In Age I (turns 1-3) only Age 
I buildings are available for purchase. At the end of Turn 3, 
Age I ends. Remove all unpurchased Age I capital buildings 
from play and place five Age II capital buildings (again drawn 
III. Gameplay
Overview
The Age of Discovery is a game for 2 to 5 players in which the 
players control the destiny of one of the major colonizing powers 
after Columbus’ discovery of the new world. Each nation will 
attempt to discover and explore new regions in the new world, 
to colonize and dominate these regions, to build their colonial 
economies and trade routes, and to use the new wealth to create 
a new age of prosperity in their home country.
The nations are:
Red: England
Blue: France
Yellow: Spain
Green: Portugal
Orange: Holland 
During the game, players will take turns placing their colonists 
and/or specialists in the Event Boxes. Once all players have 
placed all of their colonists and specialists, the Event Boxes will 
be executed one at a time from top to bottom. When an Event 
Box is executed, each colonist or specialist on a space in an Event 
Box performs the appropriate action for that box. 
Historical Note: This placement and execution represents 
the allocation of a nation’s people and resources, and the 
formulation of a colonial strategy.
Turn Phases 
There are 8 turns in the game. Turns 1-3 are Age I, Turns 4 – 6 
are Age II, and Turns 7 – 8 are Age III.
During each turn, the players will execute the following:
A.	 Colonist/ Specialist Placement: In turn order (the order 
shown in the Turn Order box), players place one of their 
available colonists or specialists in any of the event boxes on 
the right side of the board.
a.	 Initiative, Colonist Dock, Capital Buildings and Warfare 
Event Boxes: Colonists and specialists must be placed 
from left to right, filling in from the first available slot on 
the left.
b.	 Merchant Shipping and Discovery Event Boxes: Place 
colonists anywhere within this area.
1st
2nd
The player has chosen to place the colonist in the 
Merchant Space and will get an extra Merchant for 
use in the next turn.

	
Example: At the end of the turn, the Red player gets 5 
free Colonists, one Missionary ( the Red player owns the 
‘Monastery’ Capital Building), and one Captain (the 
Red player had a Colonist in the Captain Box in the 
Specialist track).
I.	 New Turn Order: Move the colonists in the Initiative box 
up into the corresponding slots in the Turn Order box. 
Any player who did not place a colonist in the Initiative 
box has their colonist moved back in the Turn Order box 
behind those who did. If more than one player did not put 
a colonist in the Initiative box, their colonists are placed in 
the positions in the Turn Order box after those who did have 
colonists in the Initiative box and in the same order from the 
previous turn relative to each other. 
	
Example: On turn 2, the player order was Red, Blue, Green, 
and Orange.
	
During turn 2, the Green player placed a colonist in the 
Initiative box in slot “1”, and the Orange player placed a 
colonist in slot “2”. 
	
The new turn order for turn 3 would be Green, Orange, Red, 
Blue (Red and Blue having been moved to the back of the 
order, but retaining their relative position).
	
Note: All resources (gold, colonists, specialists, trade goods, 
merchant ships, capital buildings) are public knowledge (all 
players must be able to see what the other players have). These 
resources cannot be traded or shared.
J.	 Advance the Turn Marker: Move the Turn Marker forward 
one turn.
at random) on the board face up. At the end of Turn 6, Age 
II ends. Remove all unpurchased Age II capital buildings 
from play and place five Age III capital buildings (once again 
drawn at random) on the board face up. If all buildings 
available for an age have been purchased no additional 
buildings are put out. Capital buildings that are purchased 
are kept in front of the purchasing player throughout the 
game even if they are a one time use building (for example 
New World Cartography). 
	
Note: Purchased capital buildings that convey benefits 
each turn will convey their benefits throughout the game. 
For example a purchased Age I building that generates an 
additional colonist (Settlers) continues to do so in Age II 
and Age III. 
F.	 Refresh Trade Goods: Place 4 randomly selected trade goods 
face up beside the trade good box on the board. Leftover 
trade goods from the previous turn (if any) are mixed back 
into the pile of unselected trade goods prior to selecting 4 
from the available trade goods.
G.	Refresh Merchant Ship: Place a new Merchant Ship in the 
Merchant Shipping box. (Note: This is only done if the box 
is empty. There can never be two Merchant Ships in the 
Merchant Shipping Box.) 
H.	Take Starting Colonists: All players take five free colonists 
(in their color) from the unused supply and place them in 
front of them. These are added to any specialists or colonists 
received from Capital Buildings or from the Specialist Event 
Box.
Example: At the end of Turn 2, there are three remaining 
Capital Buildings.
At the beginning of Turn 3, two new Age I Capital Buildings 
are chosen at random and are placed with the three remaining 
from Turn 2.
New Age I 
Counters

The amount in Spanish Dollars plundered by each soldier in the 
expedition is displayed on the discovery counter.
Note: After soldiers generate this money, they are removed from 
board and placed in the player’s supply. They do not stay in the 
colony (explained in more detail in Section V Discovery). 
 
2) When soldiers are sent to the New World (via the colonist 
dock) they are placed in a colony and may be used to eliminate 
other player’s colonists/specialists in that colony. 
(see Warfare! below).
V. Event Boxes
Turn Order: Each player has a colonist in one of the numbered 
slots. Turn order determines the order in which players place 
their colonists and specialists (Slot 1 = 1st, slot 2 = 2nd, etc.). 
It also determines the winner in the Merchant Shipping area 
in the event that two or more players have the same value in 
colonists and/ or specialists there (tie breaker). The turn order 
also determines the order in which players attempt to make 
discoveries. 
Each Turn Order box is divided by a line in the middle. This 
allows players to move their piece above or below the line during 
the colonist/specialist placement phase to indicate that they have 
acted. This indicator is a good visual cue for the players to easily 
see whose turn it is to act.
Initiative: 
The Initiative box serves two functions: 1) It provides income 
for any player who has placed a colonist there, and 2) It 
determines the Turn Order for the following turn.
When resolved, each player with a colonist in a slot in the 
Initiative box receives income equal to the number in that slot: 
1 Spanish Dollar ($1) for slot “1”, $2 for slot “2”, etc. 
Note: Income generated by the Initiative box is received 
immediately when this box is resolved (the first event 
box resolved).
At the end of the Resolution phase, move the Initiative box 
lineup up into the Turn Order box and remove the pieces that 
were in the Turn Order box. (This is discussed in detail in 
Section III). New Turn Order) 
IV. Specialists
During the Age of Discovery, colonists with special skills were 
particularly valuable. 
Each specialist acts as a colonist but also has unique abilities. 
Captain: Captains represent the heroic individuals 
who led great expeditions of exploration and trade. 
It was through the expertise and efforts of these 
extraordinary men that a new age was created.
The Captain counts as two (2) colonists in the Merchant 
Shipping event box or the Discovery event box. Example: If a 
player had two captains and one colonist in Merchant Shipping, 
this would be the same as if that player had five colonists there.
Merchant: With a vast amount of untapped 
resources and new commodities, The New World 
was full of wealth and business opportunities. 
Merchants represent individuals with a talent for 
business ventures, whether it be a sugar plantation, 
a silver mine, a cattle ranch, or a trading post in a 
far off land.
A Merchant has two possible uses: 1) He counts as two (2) 
colonists in the Merchant Shipping event box. 2) If placed in 
the Colonist Dock event box, he generates a one-time income 
when he arrives in the New World. He generates five Spanish 
Dollars ($5) for the owning player upon arrival in a New World 
colony. (Note: this happens only when the merchant arrives, not 
every turn). The dollars generated by a Merchant arriving in the 
New World are paid immediately upon arrival, not during the 
income phase.
Missionary: To Christian Europe, the New World 
represented a new frontier for ‘saving souls’ and 
for spreading its religion’s influence in the world. 
Missionaries accompanied most expeditions of 
discovery, conquest, and colonization, converting 
the native peoples of the New World so that they 
could be incorporated into the new European order.
When a Missionary arrives in the New World via the Colonist 
Dock event box he generates an additional colonist for the 
owning player within the colony in which he is placed.
Soldier: European military technology (guns, 
horses, ships, and steel) allowed soldiers to plunder 
and conquer native cultures in their quest for 
instant wealth and glory. However, once colonies 
had been established, soldiers also became necessary 
to protect their nation’s claim to the new land.
A Soldier has two possible uses: 1) He generates one-time 
income for the owning player when he is part of a successful 
discovery expedition (launched from the Discovery event box). 
Income 
generated per 
soldier

Note: Players may place no more than one colonist in the 
initiative box. Players who do not place a colonist in the 
Initiative box DO NOT receive income from the Initiative phase.
Colonist Dock: When resolved, the colonists placed on the 
Colonist Dock are moved in order (“1” first, “2” second, and so 
on) to a discovered region in the New World (one that has had 
its discovery counter removed). The owning player may decide 
which discovered region the colonist or specialist is placed. Once 
placed, colonists may not be moved (unless allowed by a capital 
building). The first player to have three of their colonists in a 
region gets the trade good in that region. Once this occurs, the 
region is now eligible for victory point scoring, and remains so 
unless the population of the colony is reduced to less than three. 
The X and Y spaces are only available to the player(s) who own 
the related Capital Buildings and are resolved in order after all 
available numbered slots.
Note: With the exception of soldiers, once a specialist arrives in 
the New World he no longer conveys any benefits. Specialists are 
not designed to be a limited commodity so if a player wishes, the 
specialists in the New World can be swapped out for colonists and 
the specialists returned to the player’s reserve pool (this has no 
effect on gameplay).
Trade Goods: When resolved, players with colonists in these 
spaces choose a trade good from the pool of four that were placed 
at the beginning of the turn. The player with a colonist in space 
“1” chooses first and so on. Acquired trade goods are placed face 
up in front of the owning player. 
Note: Trade goods stay with the player the whole game (they are 
not turned in when they generate income).
Merchant Shipping: When resolved, the player with the highest 
value in colonists and specialists in this area gains one Merchant 
Ship (from the Merchant Shipping event box). In the event of a 
tie, the player earliest in the turn order wins. Colonists in this 
event box have a value of “1”, and Captains and Merchants have 
a value of “2”.
Capital Building: When resolved, the players with colonists in 
this area take turns (left to right), paying the correct price in 
Spanish Dollars depending on the Age ($10 in Age I, $14 in 
Age II and $20 in Age III), and choosing a Capital Building 
from those available. Players may choose not to purchase a 
capital building even though they have a colonist in the Capital 
Building box. There is no penalty or cost associated with not 
doing so. Capital buildings that say “immediately” convey their 
benefits the moment they are purchased. (See Appendix II for 
a complete description of the benefits and rules for each Capital 
Building.) 
Discovery: When resolved, players (in turn order) may send their 
colonists and specialists in the Discovery box on an “Expedition 
of Discovery”. When this occurs, the player announces how 
many of his colonists in the Discovery Box will go on the 
expedition, then chooses a particular region that has not yet been 
discovered, and turns over the discovery counter in that region 
for all to see. If the value of the player’s colonists and specialists 
(including soldiers) sent on the expedition is equal to or greater 
than the number of Native American icons on discovery counter, 
then the expedition succeeds. In this case, the discovering player 
gets a free colonist (not a specialist) in the newly discovered 
region, gains the Spanish Dollars equal to the coins shown on 
the discovery counter and any bonus dollars earned from soldiers 
sent on the discovery (see soldier under section IV Specialists 
above), (The discovery counter is placed in front of the player so 
that the Victory Points may be tallied at the end of the game.) 
If the expedition value is less than the number on the discovery 
counter, then it fails. The discovery counter is returned to the 
region face down. In either case, the player’s colonists and 
specialists that were part of the expedition are removed from the 
board and returned to the player’s unused supply. 
Note: Until an expedition is launched, the colonists placed in the 
Discovery box remain there. This is unlike all other areas, which 
are cleared off at the end of each turn.
Once all regions in the New World have been discovered, the 
Discovery Card Deck is used. From that point onward, whenever 
a player launches an expedition of discovery, he or she draws the 
top card from the deck. A successful Discovery Deck expedition 
rewards the player in exactly the same manner as the discovery 
counter with the following exception: The Discovery Deck 
consists of specific geographic locations (The Mississippi) or 
regions not on the game board (China); therefore no colonists 
are placed on the board as a result of a successful Discovery 
Deck expedition. The successfully discovered card is placed in 
front of the player in the same manner as the discovery counters. 
When a Discovery Card Deck expedition is unsuccessful, the 
card is shuffled back into the deck (the area is still undiscovered 
and therefore still available to a player who sends an adequate 
expedition).
Note: Players must discover all regions in the New World before 
attempting expeditions in the Discovery Deck. 
Note: Players may only launch one discovery per turn but are 
not required to send all of their colonists on an expedition. The 
colonists that remain behind stay in the Discovery Area and can 
be used for future expeditions.
Specialists: When resolved, players receive the specialist shown 
in the box occupied by their colonist. A player who has chosen 
the training box can pay five gold and pick any one specialist. 
Only one player can occupy a specialist box at a time and only 
one specialist can be “trained” per turn for a maximum of five 
specialists available per turn. Specialists taken in this phase are 
placed in front of the owning player for use on the next turn.
Warfare!: 
When a player places a colonist in the Warfare Box he is 
preparing for war. When the war phase is resolved, the player 
must decide whether it will merely be a single Battle or a full-
scale War. A player may declare multiple Battles and/or full-scale 
Native Americans
Extra Conquistador 

Wars by placing additional units in the Warfare Box (1 conflict 
per unit).
Note: There is no special benefit for a player who places a soldier 
in the Warfare box. 
If a single Battle is declared, the declaring player chooses a single 
region and a single player to fight against in that region. A single 
battle has no cost in Dollars ($0).
If a player declares a full-scale War he or she chooses a single 
opponent. There are battles in ALL colonies where both players 
have at least one colonist or specialist and at least one of these is 
a soldier. The player declaring a full-scale war must pay $10. 
In each battle, each soldier eliminates one enemy unit (colonist 
or specialist). The owner of the soldier may choose which 
enemy unit is eliminated by their soldier. All casualties occur 
simultaneously with the units being removed AFTER all 
casualties are determined. (units can be knocked over to indicate 
elimination before they are removed).
Note: Players not involved in the battle or war may not lend 
soldiers or be attacked. 
Battle Example: During his turn Sean placed a colonist in 
the Warfare box. Sean has two soldiers and three colonists in 
Canada. He declares a battle against Angelo in Canada where 
Angelo has one soldier and four colonists. Sean has two soldiers 
and may therefore eliminate two of Sean’s units. He chooses 
to eliminate Angelo’s soldier and a colonist. Angelo chooses to 
eliminate one of Sean’s soldiers.
War Example: During his turn Sean placed a colonist in the 
Warfare box. When the Warfare box is resolved, Sean declares 
war on Angelo and pays $10. Sean has soldiers and colonists in 
New Granada, New Spain and New England and only colonists 
in Florida and Canada. Angelo has colonists in New Granada, 
Canada, and New Spain and he also has soldiers in Florida. 
Battles occur in New Granada, New Spain, and Florida. No 
battle occurs in Canada. Although both players have colonists in 
Canada, neither of them have a soldier there.
VI. Trade Goods/Merchant Ships
Trade goods represent the economies and trade of each Colonial 
Empire. The number on each counter shows how many of each 
trade good there is in the game, and has no other function (i.e. It 
is not a “value” of the trade good). This information is provided 
so that players can plan appropriately. 
Trade Goods are acquired by players in one of three ways: 1) 
By being the first to have three colonists in a region, a player 
gains the Trade Good counter in that region, or 2) by placing 
a colonist in the Trade Goods area and selecting a trade good 
from those available. 3) The Capital Building “The West Indies 
Company”, allows the owning player to gain a free random trade 
good each turn.
Once acquired, trade goods remain with that player throughout 
the game and generate income for the owning player at the end 
of each turn. The amount of the income (in Spanish dollars) is 
determined by how many and what kind of “sets” are created. 
Players create “sets” by placing their trade goods counters into 
groups of three or four. Each counter may only be used in one 
set.
Note: Each turn, the trade goods and Merchant ships may be 
rearranged to form new sets.
Any Three Trade Goods = $1 (1 Spanish Dollar)
(example: Indigo, Silver, Tobacco)
Three of the Same Kind = $3
(example: Indigo, Indigo, Merchant Ship)
Four of the Same Kind = $6
(example: Sugar, Sugar, Sugar, Sugar)
Merchant ships act as “wild cards” in making sets. In other 
words, a merchant ship can be treated as any type of trade good 
for the purpose of completing a set. Only one Merchant Ship 
can be used per set. 
Note: The sets are not cashed in, but rather generate income at 
the end of each turn. 
At the end of the game, players earn victory points equal to 
the amount of gold that they earn from their trade goods and 
merchant ships. 
Note: This is the amount of gold they earn from trade goods and 
merchant ships on turn 8 only, not throughout the game.

VII. Capital Buildings
Capital Buildings are purchased by the player with Spanish 
Dollars and confer a benefit as stated on the Capital Building 
Counter. Some benefits are one-time and immediate, and others 
(such as buildings that generate income and specialists) occur 
every turn. (see Appendix II for a complete description and rules 
for each Capital Building.)
The cost of Capital Buildings increases with each new age: Each 
Capital Building purchased costs $10 in Age I, $14 in Age II, 
and $20 in Age III.
For a description of how Capital Buildings are introduced into 
the game, see Section III Part A: Gameplay - Capital Buildings.
VIII. Victory Point Calculation / Game End 
and Winning
Victory points are earned three times during the game. New 
World colonies score victory points at the end of Age I (end of 
turn 3), Age II (end of turn 6) and Age III (end of turn 8, the 
end of the game.). Each Player’s Victory Points should be kept 
track of on paper.
 
New World colony scoring:
At least one player must have three or more colonists or 
specialists in a colony for that colony to be scored. The player 
with the most colonists (including specialists) in a colony receives 
six points and the player with the second most colonists (once 
again including specialists) receives two points. 
If there is a two-way tie for first each player receives two points 
(and no second place VP’s are awarded). 
If there is a three-way tie for first, all players receive zero points. 
If there is a two-way tie (or more) for second place, those players 
receive zero points.
If only one player is in a region and has three or more colonists, 
that player scores six points (for first place), and no one gets the 
two points for second.
End-game scoring:
The game ends at the end of Turn 8. When the game ends, each 
player tallies his or her victory points (see below) and the player 
with the most accumulated victory points wins. Victory Points 
are awarded for:
Discoveries: The red number on the discovery counter or 
discovery card. The cards and counters owned by a player are 
scored at the end of the game only.
Colonies: Colonies are scored in the manner described above.
Capital Buildings: Some Capital Buildings are worth Victory 
Points for their owner. These are either a number in red or points 
for an accomplishment. (For example the capital building “Navy” 
grants 3 VPs per Merchant Ship owned by the player with the 
“Navy” capital building.)
Economy: Players receive victory points equal to the amount 
of Spanish Dollars that their trade goods and merchant ships 
generated at the end of turn 8.
Ties: 
If two or more players end the game with the same number of 
victory points, ties are broken in the following manner: First 
tiebreaker: The player who gained the most victory points from 
New World colonies on turn 8. Second tiebreaker (if needed): 
the player with the most gold. Third tiebreaker (if needed): the 
player with the most trade goods.
IX. Strategy
There are many paths to victory in The Age of Discovery. 
Players should not ignore the victory points generated by 
controlling first or second place in colonies in the New World. 
The New World colonies are the only elements that score victory 
points more than once in the game. At the same time it is very 
difficult to focus solely on a New World Colony strategy. Other 
players will recognize this strategy and it will become very 
difficult to control enough regions to win the game when other 
players make a concerted effort to confront you in the New 
World. Spreading your colonists into too many regions can also 
be dangerous. A sudden explosion of colonization by several 
opponents all at once will put you in an impossible position as 
you try to defend too many places.
Successful players will often use a two-fold strategy to achieve 
victory. For example they may focus on controlling one or two 
regions, take second in one or two more and then work very 
hard on developing their economies (using the money generated 
to acquire capital buildings as needed). Another approach may 
be to augment a New World strategy by acquiring captains and 
exploring frequently, using exploration to gain a foothold in the 
New World. There are many combinations to try. Some will 
work better than others. As players begin to recognize successful 
strategies, expect to meet resistance and be prepared to adapt to 
your opponents.
A note on war as a strategy; in The Age of Discovery, warfare is 
not a dominant strategy by itself. It is merely a tool to tip the 
balance in a few key colonies at key moments. 

APPENDIX I: Alternate Starting Order Rules (for expert players only):
Rather than having the turn order at the beginning of the game determined randomly, an auction is held. Each player (starting with 
the youngest), bids (in Spanish Dollars) in turn, clockwise around the table. Each bid must be higher than the previous bid or the 
player may “pass”. The first player to pass places a colonist of his color in the last available turn space (the last available space is equal 
to the number of players in the game) in the Turn Order box. The next player to pass places her colonist in the next lowest available 
space (for example in a five player game, the first player to pass places his colonist in the “5” space and the next player to pass places her 
colonist in the “4” space.) 
The player who places his colonist in the “2” spot pays half of his last bid (rounded up)(Example: If the last bid was $7, then they 
would pay $4). The player who takes the “2” spot also gets a free specialist of their choice if they bid $8 or more. The player who wins 
the bid places his colonist in the “1” spot, pays his entire last bid, and discovers the Caribbean region. 
For discovering the Caribbean, the player receives the Spanish Dollars shown on the discovery counter (since no soldiers were involved 
in the expedition there is no soldier plundering bonus for this discovery) and places the discovery counter face up in front of himself 
(all future discovery counters are placed face up in front of the discovering player as well so that they can keep track of the Victory 
Points). The discovering player places one colonist (not a specialist) in the Caribbean. This colonist does NOT count as one of the five 
starting colonists. 
APPENDIX II: Capital Buildings
Age I (11 buildings total)
Settlers (X2). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Colonist each turn
Monastery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Missionary each turn	
Trade Routes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Merchant each turn
Training Grounds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Soldier each turn
Indentured Servitude. . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Free Colonist in the X space on the Colonist Dock each turn
Conquistador. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Free Soldier in the Discovery Box each turn
Navigator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Free Captain in the Discovery Box each turn 
Conquest of the Inca Empire . . . . . . Immediately take $20 (one time only)
Trading Post. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +$5 each turn
New World Cartography . . . . . . . . . 1 Free Discovery (and 4 VPs) A new land is discovered. 
Choose a Region that has not yet been discovered. Place a free 
colonist there. Take the discovery counter and the Spanish Dollars 
shown as usual. 

APPENDIX II: Capital Buildings (continued) 
Age II (13 buildings total)
Indian Allies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Immediately place 2 free soldiers in one of your colonies 
(one that has at least one of your colored pieces on it.)
Privateers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Take $1/ merchant ship that you own from each player every turn. 
Receive $1 from every player for each merchant ship that you own. 
Collect this money each turn after the Income phase.
Ship Yards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Captain each turn
Cathedral. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Missionaries add 2 colonists when arriving in the New World (instead of 1).
Taxation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +$10 each turn (and 2 VPs)
University . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Move to front of an event box – one time use (and 5 VPs) 
This Capital Building allows the owning player to move one 
colonist or specialist from any position in the Colonist Dock, 
Initiative, Turn Order, or Capital Building event box, to the front. 
It may be executed at any time, but one time only.
West Indies Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 free Trade Good each turn (random) 
This Capital Building allows the owning player to take one 
random trade good from the supply at the end of each turn.
Colonization Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Free Colonist in the Y space on the Colonist Dock each turn 
Rum Distillery. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +$3 for each Sugar trade good owned by the owner of this 
Building (earned during the income phase)
Marketplace. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Merchant each turn
Military Academy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Soldier each turn
Fortress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 Soldier each turn
Stable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Player may move 1 soldier from any colony to an adjacent colony 
(once each turn during the Capital Building Benefits Phase) Note: The Caribbean 
is adjacent to New Granada, New Spain, and Florida.
Age III (10 buildings total)
Militia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +1 soldier in every battle in which the owner is defending. 
Any battle in which the owning player is involved in and did not cause, he gets an 
extra soldier for that battle. This extra soldier disappears after the battle ends (unless 
he was a casualty in the battle).
Mercantilism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 VP per Trade Good owned by the owner of this building
Population. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 VP per 2 colonists (and specialists) in the New World owned by the owner of 
this building
Navy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 VP per Merchant Ship owned by the owner of this building
Power. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 VP per soldier in the New World owned by the owner of this building
Prosperity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 VP per Capital Building owned by the owner of this building
Glory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 VP per Colonized Region Any region with at least one colonist or specialist 
belonging to the owner of this building
Wealth. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 VP per $5 owned by the owner of this building
Migration. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . May move up to 2 colonists from any single region to any other single region. 
This may be done each turn during the Capital Building Benefits Phase. 
Factory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . +$25 each turn (and 5 VPs)

Appendix III: Discovery Counters and Cards
Discovery Counters
$
$/soldier
Natives
VPs
Discovery Cards (used after New World is completely discovered)
$
$/soldier
Natives
VPs
The Mississippi 
The Great Lakes
The Pampas
California
Philippines
South Seas
Ethiopia
The Amazon
The Northwest Territory
Australia
Chipongu (Japan)
Siam
Spice Islands
India
Circumnavigate the Globe
China

Credits
Game Concept and Design. . . . . . . Glenn Drover
Artwork. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Paul E. Niemeyer
Graphic Design. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jacoby O’Connor, James Provenzale Fast Forward Design Associates
Game Printed in the U. S. A. by Chukerman Packaging
Eagle Games would like to thank the following playtesters who provided 
valuable insights and great times as we developed The Age of Discovery: 
Bruce Shelley, Jack Provenzale, Sean Brown, Angelo Atencio, Mark Evans, Charlie Johns, Todd G., Audress, Nick Szegedi, 
The Elgin Eagles (Michael Pennisi, Chris Aniballi, Jason Leonberger, Todd Sweet, Dave Burba, and Ray Petersen), The 
Southern Oregon Gamers (Matt Ackerman, Robert Connolly, Jeff DeBoer), Chris Davis, Mark Spires, Tom Dunlap, 
David Matchen, Chris Giovinazzo, Raife Giovinazzo, Jim Leesch, Dyson Yobb, Dion Garner, Scott Kelton, Jake Alley, 
Stan Sword, Roberto Di Megglio, John Todd Jensen, Scott Tepper, Jay Tummelson, Rick Thornquist, Paul Niemeyer, Ted 
Kuhn, Mike Liccardi, Tim Phillips, Ray Zanca, and Marcus Hearne.
Special Thanks to Keith Blume, Bruce Shelley, and the team at Ensemble Studios for much 
appreciated input on the design.
A Very Special Thanks to Don Beyer of SDR for creating some outstanding prototypes that allowed us to 
playtest this game and improve it. Thanks Don!

Turn Phases
A.	 Colonist/ Specialist Placement
B.	 Resolution
C.	 Income
D.	 Capital Building Benefits
E.	 Refresh Capital Buildings 
F.	 Refresh Trade Goods
G.	 Refresh the Merchant Ship
H.	 Players receive new colonists (5 per player)
I.	 New Turn Order
J.	 Advance Turn Marker
Victory Points
Victory Points are awarded for:
A.	 Majority in each colony that has at least 3 colonists or 
specialists from a single player (at the end of each age): 
•	 1st place 6 VPs
•	 2nd place 2 VPs
•	 Tied for 1st 2 VP’s for 1st and 0 for 2nd
•	 Tied for 2nd 0 VPs
B.	 Capital Buildings (as shown on the Capital Building)
C.	 Discoveries made (as shown on the Tiles and Cards)
D.	 Economy (VPs equal to the $ income that the player generated 
on turn 8 from trade goods and merchant ships only)