is a captivating game that you can enjoy
hundreds of timesafter you've learned the rules and played
the first time. The best way to learn the game is from
someone who has played it many times before and who can
teach you more than just the rules-he can teach you how to
play.
So let me introduce you to my favorite game. I thought I
should start by answering some of the most frequently asked
questions.
If the milepost to which you connect is a
It costs
If your track crosses a
It costs, in addition
to the milepost cost
What is thegameabout?
What is theobjectofthegame?Howdoyouwin?
How do I build my railroad? Do I just draw on the board, or
isthere moretoit?
is a money game about building
railroads, running trains, and making money. On the plastic-
coated board, use your crayon to connect the dots to create
your railroad; then, use your pawn to move up and down
your railroad to make money by picking up and delivering
goods.
You win Empire Builder if you're the first player whose
railroad connects five major cities and who has $250
million.
It costs money to build a railroad! As you build, you have
to pay for each milepost to which you connect your railroad.
The charge varies according to the type of milepost to which
you arebuilding,accordingtothischart:
Clear milepost
$1 million
Mountain milepost
$2 million
Small city milepost
Medium city milepost
Major city milepost
$5 million
In addition to the milepost cost, you also have to pay to
bridge the water obstacles, the rivers, and the ocean inlets.
Whenever your rail line crosses those water barriers, you
mustpayanadditionalcost,accordingtothischart:
River
$2 million
Ocean Inlet
For example, we will build a new track from Kansas City to
Birmingham, by way of St. Louis and Memphis. Go ahead
and follow along with the example, by using your own
crayon and drawing the same route on your own board. Be
sure to count out the cost as you go along. In this illustration,
look at the cost of building this route, including cities and
crossing ariver:
You should rememberthat:
1. You can always build from a major city milepost, so you
startbuildingatKansas City.
2. You can also build from any milepost that you've already
built to, so you branched from your line just below St.
Louis. Remember, you can start building either at a major
city milepost or at any milepost to which you have already
builttrack.
3. It costs $3 million to build into St. Louis and Birmingham
since they are small cities. It costs $5 million to build to
Memphis: $2 million to cross the Mississippi and $3
milliontobuildintoasmallcity.
4. You can't spend more than $20 million building track in
any turn, so you can't spend the total cost of $21 million in
this turn. To build this track, you need to build to the
milepost just before Birmingham on one turn and build
intoBirminghamon your nextturn.
5. Only one track can be built between any two mileposts, so
no other player can later build any track where the player
in this example built his. However, more than one person
can connect his track to a milepost, so that your track can
be "crossed" by another player if he builds his track to (and
from)amilepostthatyou havebuiltto(andfrom).
If you were short of money and did not have an immediate
Cost of Building— In Millions
EMPIRE
B U I L D E R
HOW TO PLAY

need to build to Memphis, you could have bypassed it and
saved yourself $2 million. By doing this, you could have
finished the line in one turn, as well as saved the extra cash.
However, only two players can build into a small city (and
only three players can build into a medium city), so if two
others built into Memphis before you did, you couldn't build
your lineintothecity.
When you're done, leave the lines on the board for the next
example.
No! After you've built your railroad, you have to run your
trainon ittomakemoney.
When you are playing, you will have three cards (called
Demand cards) that tell you which cities want goods and
how much they're willing to pay for them. Each card has
three "demands", but you can only use one of them and then
you mustdiscardthecard.Eachdemandlookslikethis:
Birmingham ......... City
$8 million .............amount
corn ..................… good
To make this run, you have to pick up corn and deliver it to
Birmingham to earn the $8 million payoff. Looking at the
board, you see the symbol for corn (
) near St. Louis. That
symbol means that you can pick up corn in St. Louis. You
already have a railroad line that connects St. Louis (where
you can pick up the load) and Birmingham (where your
Demand card says you can deliver the load for $8 million
payoff). All you need to do is to run your train along your
railroad to pick up corn in St. Louis and deliver it to
Birmingham.
As in the last example, follow along on your own board.
First put your pawn in Kansas City; you can start your pawn
at any city at the beginning of the game. (We're starting here
so that I can show you how to run your train; normally you
would start in St. Louis.) Your pawn represents a freight
train, which goes at a speed of 9 mileposts per turn and
carries up to 2 loads at a time. Start by moving your pawn
down your railroad and counting the mileposts as you go
along. When you get to St. Louis, you will have moved 4
mileposts(of the9thatyoucanmovethisturn).
In St. Louis, pick up 2 loads of corn. The "loads" are the
plastic chips with sticker labels; they are kept in the sorting
tray in the box. With your remaining 5 mileposts of
movement, you can continue moving your pawn toward
Birmingham. On your next turn, you arrive in Birmingham
after moving 5 mileposts. There you deliver the corn by
returning 1 load to the tray (only one load can be delivered
with one Demand card) and receiving $8 million from the
bank. Discard the Demand card, since only one demand on
each card may be used. Note that you automatically picked
up the extra load since it costs nothing (either in cash or in
movement) and it acts as cheap insurance in case an Event
cardturns up.
That's the basics on how to play
, but that's
not all the rules! So you should take a moment to scan the
rulebook to pick up the rest of the rules. Keep an eye out for
these:
1. You can upgrade your train to a fast freight, heavy freight
andsuper freighttoenablethemtocarrymoreloadsand/or
go faster.
2. You should be prepared for an Event card to turn up
instead of a Demand card. The worst are the Flood cards,
which wipe out your bridges and force you to rebuild them
(at$3 millionor moreperbridge).
3.You don't have to build track in the red area of major cities.
When you run your train, you can travel from one major
city milepost to another (including the center milepost) as
ifitwere partof your railroad.
4. You can run your train on another player's track, but you
must pay $4 million per turn to every player on whose
trackyou run.
5. No more loads are available than the number included in
thegame.You maynotmakeanymoreloads.
Remember, this is a friendly game, and you should be able
to pick up the rest of the rules as you play along. Before
going on, you should take a paper napkin or paper towel and
wipetheboardclean.
You start the game with $40 million, 3 Demand cards and
an empty board. Simply, you need to find a route for your
railroad track that you can afford with your $40 million (plus
any earnings from early deliveries) and which links the load
pickup and delivery cities that are on your Demand cards.
(Remember, you can only use one demand on a Demand
card;afterdeliveringonedemand,you discardthecard).
As you makeyour initialbuilds,keepthesepointsinmind:
1. Don't guess about your route! Be sure to count it out. It
may seem complex and confusing, but checking out the
alternatives and making the best choices are what this
gameis allabout.
2. Count your money. Keep your flexibility.You never know
what card will next turn up, whether Demand or Event
card. The Flood card could turn early, costing you money
to rebuild your bridges; if you don't anticipate, you could
betrapped.
3. Pay attention to the order of your building. Make sure that
the line you build lets you make the run on your first
Demand card before worrying with the next one.
Remember, you can't build without money, and so always
be certain how you're going to get the money for your next
build. Make sure you are running for enough payoff to
build for your next run; otherwise you should consider
dropping your cards and getting a new set before using up
your cash on unworkable cards.You can trap yourself with
no make-ableruns ifyou don't watchout.
Howdo I makemoney?Is thisallthereistothegame?
Is thatalltherules?
Help!Howdo I GetStarted?

4. Never build track that you don't have an immediate,
specific plan on using, including track in anticipation of
Demand cards that can't be completed for a run. Some
exceptions to this guideline need to be made to ensure later
entry into small and medium cities and to build
defensively (and occasionally, offensively), but be very
carefulwithyouravailablecash.
5. Be careful with your actual building. Don't jog your line to
avoid mountains; it is rarely any real benefit. Watch how
you build through cities; jogging around a small or
medium city may yield only a $1 million benefit and later
additional cost to build into the city. Also, it only costs $1
million to $3 million to build out of a major city
(depending on the milepost to which you're building), but
it always costs $5 million to build into a major city. The
only limit is that you can only build two track segments
from major city mileposts in one turn; so, plan your
building to build out from major city mileposts to meet
your oncomingrailline.
6. Remember, when you finish with your first Demand
cards, they will be replaced, and you will be building your
railroad and running your train in response to these unseen
demands. Keep some flexibility for these unforeseeable
cards.
7. To win, your railroad must connect five of the six major
cities.As you build, be sure to include any major city in the
vicinitytomeetthisrequirementtowin.
So now you've got a start on the game, a plan of attack for
futuremovesandsomesuggestions onhow tobuild.
Now its time for you to begin. Lets set up the game for the
first time:
1. Make sure you've cleaned the board after the examples;
you just need a dry paper napkin or paper towel to wipe the
crayon off.
The board is only
plasticcoveredpaper,afterall.
Put the board in the middle of the table, so everyone can
reachit.
2. Open up the card packs. This first time, you need to
separate out the blank cards (put them under the plastic
tray) and the Loco cards (put them with the money). There
are 2 blank Demand and 2 blank Event cards, for use in
caseacardis lostor you wanttomakeup your own cards.
Shufflethedeckthoroughly.
3. Pick one player to start; you each draw a card, and the
player with the highest demand goes first (Event cards are
zero).Reshufflethedeckonceagain.
Deal 3 cards
to each player. Return all the Event
cards to the dealer and get new cards, until every player
has three Demand cards to start with. The dealer shuffles
the Event cards back into the deck and puts the deck on the
board.
4. Give every player $40 million and a pawn and crayon of
the same color. Every player gets a
Loco card to
startwith.
5. Choose one player to act as banker, who holds the box
with the money, the Load chips and the Loco cards. The
first time you play, you need to put the stickers on the Load
chips,onestickerperchip.
You're ready to start! You play two rounds of turns without
moving, to build your initial track. After those two rounds,
startrunningyour trains.
Now you're on your own. If you have specific questions,
consult the rulebook, which states all the rules to the game. If
you think there is any conflict between my explanation and
therulebook,followtherulebookandignoreme!
That's the end of your introduction to
. I'm
sure you'll find it to be the most captivating game that you've
ever played. If you have any questions that you can't answer
from the rulebook or this introduction, and if you have
comments or suggestions, please write me personally at:
Darwin Bromley,
, c/o Mayfair
Games, 5641 Howard St.,Niles, IL60714.
ThanksandenjoytheGame!
Howdo I setup toplay?
Don't use soap and water!
face up
Empire Builder Designer
©1988 Mayfair Games
All Rights Reserved

IMPORTANT:
DO NOT USE
ABRASIVE CLEANERS
DO NOT USE OTHER
MARKERS
The
playing board is covered by
a thin plastic coating to
allow for easy cleanup
between games.
to clean the board—use a
dry paper napkin or paper
towel. Using water will not
speed cleanup.
than those
recommended—pencils,
pens, regular crayons, and
dry markers will
permanently color the
playing surface and ruin the playing board.
Whenever using any marker other than those provided, first mark the board away from the playing surface and
leave it overnight. If the mark can then be wiped off without leaving a stain, the marker is usable. Each individual
color has to be tested.
Keep crayons away from direct heat.
ALWAYS CLEAN THE BOARD IMMEDIATELY AFTER PLAY!
Playing Board
Crayons
Cards
Demand Cards
Event Cards
Loco Cards
The central feature of the board is a map of
the continental United States and southern Canada. The map
has a grid of round, triangular, and starshaped dots, called
in the game. The mileposts regulate rail building
and train movement. In scale they are approximately 50
milesapart.
The map shows 51 cities. Near each city are symbols
representing the goods available for pickup in that city. The
map also shows the relative location of the seacoasts and
major river obstacles. The locations of some coastal cities
have been moved slightly inland from the coast to ease play
of thegame.
The cost of track building in certain special cases of the
mapis describedattheendofthisrulebook.
The special wipeoff crayons supplied with the
game let players draw on the playing board during play and
clean the board afterwards. No other marker than those
supplied should be used without carefully checking for
erasability on a section of the board away from the playing
area.
There are three types of cards: Demand, Event, and
Loco.
Before playing, the Loco cards should be separated from
the others and kept with the money. The blank cards should
be removed and kept to replace missing cards. The
remaining Demand and Event cards are shuffled together to
makethecarddeck.
Each Demand card shows the demand for
threegoods andfor eachgood shows:
The city (St. Louis) needing the goods.
The money ($11 million) payable on delivery
of the goods to the city.
The goods—Lead
The deck has 20 Event cards which affect the
play of the game. When drawn, Event cards are immediately
placed face up and shown to all players; the drawing player
then continues to draw cards until he has three Demand cards
in his hand. Every player must
have three (3)
Demandcards.
Eventcardeffectsaredescribedindetailbelow.
Each player has one Loco card, showing the
type of the player's train, its maximum speed, and its load
capacity.Therearefour typesof trains:
may carry 2 loads and travel up to 9 mileposts per
turn.
mileposts
always
EMPIRE
B U I L D E R
RULEBOOK
MAP SYMBOLS
Small City Milepost
River
Loads Available (Fish, Machinery)
Medium City Milepost
Mountain Milepost
Clear Milepost
Major City Milepost
Ocean Inlet
EMPIRE BUILDER™is a game or transcontinental
railroad construction and operation. Build your railroad
and haul freight to make your fortune.

may carry 2 loads and travel up to 12
may carry 3 loads and travel up to 9
may carry 3 loads and travel up to 12
Each player starts with a freight. At the end of his turn, he
may upgrade his train instead of building track. The upgrade
costs $20 million for a fast freight or a heavy freight. If he
has a fast freight or heavy freight he may further upgrade his
trainby paying$20millionforasuperfreight.
Before playing, the printed stickers must be
applied to the plastic chips, one sticker per chip. Save the
blankstickerstoreplacemissingchips.
Each load chip represents a
which can be carried on a
player's train. To show that a load is being carried, place the
loadchipon theplayer's Lococard.
The unused loads are placed in the plastic tray, where
players can see what loads are available for pick up. When a
player delivers a load, drops a load without delivering it for
payoff or loses a load from an Event card, the load is returned
totheplastictraywiththeotheravailableloads.
The load chips are limited to those provided in the game;
additional loads should not be made except as replacements.
Charts showing the number of loads available, as well as
where the loads are available for pickup, are included for
player reference in the center of the booklet,
.
The players sit around the playing board. One player acts
as a banker; he takes the money and gives each player $40
million to start the game. The banker holds the Loco cards
andavailableLoadchips.
After shuffling, players cut the deck to find who moves
first.Theplayerwho cuts
the card with the highest payoff goes first (Event cards have
a zero payoff). He reshuffles the cards and deals three cards
face up to each player. After looking at the cards, players
discard all Event cards and receive new cards in return.
(Event cards are discarded
at the beginning of the
game; Event cards drawn later are displayed and become
immediatelyeffective.)
The dealer shuffles the discarded Event cards back into the
deck and places the deck on the board. When the deck
becomes exhausted during play, the dealer reshuffles the
discardpiletoformanewdeck.
At thebeginningofthegame,eachplayerhas:
3 Demandcards(faceup)
One
Lococard
$40 millionincash
One pawn andonecrayonoflikecolor
Aplayer must have three Demand cards in his hands at all
times. Whenever a Demand card is discarded and whenever
an Event card is drawn, a replacement Demand card must be
drawn. If a player finds he has fewer than three Demand
cards, he must draw a replacement Demand card
immediately, whetheror notitis his turn.
The first player takes his turn, and play continues
clockwisearoundthetable.On his turn,eachplayercan:
, operate his train, by moving, loading, and
unloadinghis train,payinguse fees andcollectingpayoffs;
, spend up to $20 million per turn either to build
trackor toupgradehis train.
Instead of taking his turn, a player may discard his entire
hand and draw three cards, displaying and replacing any
Event cards drawn. Event cards drawn take effect
immediately.Aplayer who loses his turn from an Event card
maynotdiscardhis handduringthelostturn.
After the player has completed his turn, the next player
beginshis turn.
The playing board begins without any player's track drawn
on it. At the beginning of the game, players take two turns
with no train movement to start building their rail empires
using part (or all) of their initial $40 million. Each player
mayuse up
to$20 millionineachbeginningturn.
After looking at the nine demands listed on his Demand
cards, each player finds where the loads are located on the
board. Knowing this, he plans the route for his railroad and
beginstobuildtrack.
A player builds his railroad by drawing a line from one
milepost to the next. For each section of track, the player
must pay the cost for the milepost to which he is building.
Seeillustrationfor buildingcosts.
For example, building from a clear milepost to a mountain
milepost costs $2 million, building from a mountain
mileposttoasmallcitymilepostcosts $3 million,etc.
Theserules mustbefollowedwhen buildingtracks:
Aplayer may build track from any
major city milepost or from any milepost to which the player
has already built track.Aplayer may not build more than two
track sections from major city mileposts during one turn. No
trackmaybebuiltwithintheredareaof amajorcity.
Every player has the right to
build at least one section of track from every major city. No
track may be built from a major city which would block any
other player from having one section of track from that
majorcity.
Only three
players may build track into a medium city, and only two
players may build track into a small city. No player may
build more than three track sections to or from a medium or
small city. No track may be built to or from a medium city
fast freight
heavy freight
superfreight
load
How to Play
Load Chips
only
FIRST
SECOND
Beginning Construction
Right to Enter Major City
Limited Entry Into MediumAnd Small Cities
EmpireBuilder
PREPARATION FOR PLAY
HOWTOPLAY
BUILDINGRAILROADS

which would block a third
player from having one
section of track to that
medium city, or from a
small city that would block
a second player from
having one section of track
tothatsmallcity.
Only one
section of track (track
section) may be built
b e t w e e n
a n y
t w o
mileposts.
player may not build more track than he can immediately
pay for. Track drawn which cannot be paid for is
immediatelyerased.
Aplayer earns money by carrying a load on his train from a
city where the load can be picked up to the city where there is
ademandfor theload.
Each player may start his train
(representedby hispawn) atanycityonthemap.
Aplayer moves his train by traveling on
track built on the board and
counting the mileposts reached,
up to the maximum movement of
the player's train. Freights and
heavy freights may move up to 9
mileposts each turn, and fast
freights and superfreights may
move up to 12 mileposts each
turn.
There is no limit to the number
of trains that may end a turn on
one milepost or use the same
track. One train may not block
another train's movement; two
trains may pass each other on the
same track. A train may reverse
direction only at a city (including
allmajorcitymileposts).
All
players'
tracks
are
connected across the major cities
by the red area (which represent
the local belt or terminal rail
system). Trains may travel across
the city (including rivers) using
the red area as their own track
connecting
all
major
city
mileposts. Loads may be picked
up or delivered at any major city
milepost.The center milepost in a
majorcityis amilepostfor movement.
A player pays nothing to run his train on his own track. A
player may run on his opponent's track, but must pay $4
million per turn to each opponent on whose track he has run
during his turn. A player may not use an opponent's track
unless hehas thecashtopayfor itsuse beforeusing it.
A load may be picked up by a train
passing through a city where the load is available. No more
loads can be picked up than there are load chips representing
theload.
Trains may carry up to two loads at a time with a freight or
a fast freight or three loads with a heavy freight or a
Right of Way
No Credit/No Loans
Starting the Train
Running the Train
Picking Up Loads
HAULINGFREIGHT
$1+2 mil.
$2+2 mil.
Not Allowed
$5 mil.
$2 mil.
$1 mil.
$1+3 mil.
$3 mil.
$3 mil.
The cost for building to each milepost is:
Clear ..$1 million
Mountain .................................. $2 million
Small City .................................$3 million
Medium City ............................ $3 million
Major City ................................ $5 million
River ................................ $2 million add’l
Ocean Inlet .......................$3 million add’l
The cost for building across a river ($2 mil-
lion) or ocean inlet ($3
million) is in addition to the
regular cost for building to a
milepost. Building to a
mountain
milepost
and
The player’s freight, loaded with
cars for San Francisco, begins
moving from “A.” Moving along the
track, the train reaches the city after
sixmileposts.
The player then discards the
Demand card (#98), returns the load
(cars) to the tray, collects the payoff
($34 million) and draws a new
Demand card. The train may continue
three more mileposts to end its
movementat“B.”
B

superfreight. Trains may carry different types of loads.
Trains may carry loads whether or not they have a demand
for that load. Players may drop a load without payoff at any
city.
A player picking up or unloading a load incurs no
movement penalty and may travel his full movement.
During his turn, a player may load, unload, and move his
train any number of times in any order; movement is limited
only by the type of train he has and by any Event cards in
play.
When a player delivers a load to a city
with a Demand for that load on one of his Demand cards, the
player:
1. Discards the Demand card. Only one load can be delivered
for payoff withoneDemandcard.
2. Receives the amount stated on the Demand card from the
bank.
3.Returns theloadchiptothetrayofavailableloads.
4.Draws anew Demandcard.
5. Continues his turn, including, if he can, delivering another
load for payoff, dropping a load, picking up a load, and
moving. The player may continue until his movement
allowanceis usedup.
After finishing his movement, the player may then spend up
to $20 million to build additional track or to upgrade his
train.
An Event card takes effect immediately on being drawn.
Generally, the Event card continues in effect until the end of
the drawing player's next turn, when it is discarded.
However, the Derailment and RailTax cards act once and are
then discarded. The players must obey the directions on the
Event card while it is in effect. The following paragraphs
explaintheeffectsofsomeEventcards:
Mileposts are counted in the same way
as train movement is counted. To count mileposts from a
Major City, count from the city center and not from the outer
mileposts. To count mileposts from the seacoast, count from
the milepost nearest the seacoast.TheAtlantic Coast extends
from Portland, Me. to the milepost south of Miami; the Gulf
Coast extends from the milepost south of Miami to the
milepost south of Houston; and the Pacific Coast extends
from San Diego toVancouver. For example, San Francisco is
on thePacificCoast.
When trains move at half rate, freights and heavy
freightsmove5 milepostsperturnandfastfreightsandsuper
freights move 6 mileposts per turn. When an Event card
causes the drawing player's train (which had already moved)
to move at half rate, or a player's train moves into an area of
bad weather, the train's remaining movement is halved,
roundingallfractionsup.
When track is flooded out, all track of all players
bridging the river is immediately erased. Track across the
river may be rebuilt and new track crossing the river may be
built during the player's regular turn and only after the Flood
Event card has been discarded at the end of the drawing
player's next turn. Rebuilt bridges cost the same as the
original track building, i.e. $2 million plus the cost of the
milepost. Floods disable and close the bridges in Kansas
CityonlywhiletheFlood Eventcardis ineffect.
When a derailment occurs, the only trains
affected are those within the areas at the time the card is
drawn. Trains may enter the areas immediately afterwards
withoutpenalty.
When a train loses a load, the player operating
the train chooses which load is lost from those the train is
carrying. The Event card does not affect any loads picked up
afterthecardis drawn.
When the Canadian Rail Strike
occurs, all mileposts touching the Canadian border are
affected.
The winner is the first player whose continuous line of track
connects five of the major cities and who has $250 million
cash. Only cash is counted; the money spent on building
railroadsdoes notcounttowardwinning.
A player's Demand cards and Loco cards
(together with the load chips on the Loco cards) must be face
up in front of the player for all to see.Aplayer need not show
his money until the Rail Tax Event card appears, after which
theamountof theplayer's moneyis alsopublicinformation.
Delivering Loads
Counting Mileposts
Half Rate
Floods
Derailments
Lost Loads
Canadian Rail Strike
Courtesy in Play
EVENTCARD EFFECTS
HOWTOWIN
CREDITS
©1988 Mayfair Games
All Rights Reserved
Game Design by
Darwin P. Bromley & Bill Fawcett
Game Development: Darwin P. Bromley
Rules Edition and Testing:
Trella Wilhite & Jay Tummelson
Cover Art: ©1992 Ted Rose
Cover Design: Seth Schwartz
Board Art: Jim Malik
Board Design: Jim Clouse
Special thanks to: Forest Brown, Mariam McKenzie,
Walter Smith, Bill Wordelmann, Will Niebling, and to
Steve Courtemanche, Louis Newman, Simon Billenness,
Ig Lew, Steve Ivanowsky, Bruce McIntyre, Steve Knight,
Paul Gardner, Mike Johnson,Ty Hare, Craig Mills, Brian
Moore, Keven Stone, Conrad von Betzke, Mike Barno,
Jeff Zarse and the other Trax readers, and particularly to
thefirstTraxMaster,Brux.
is a trademark of Mayfair Games.
Third Edition

VARIATIONS
Since it first appeared,
has been
enjoyed by thousands of players. Many have created house
rules to enhance their enjoyment of the game. The following
play variations represent some of the best that have been
suggested to us; the bestthe heavy freight and the rail
taxwere added to the regular rules. If you would like to share
your rules with us and other
fans, send it to:
Variations, Mayfair Games, P.O. Box
48539, Niles, IL,60714.
Some rules radically alter the play of
. In every case the use of any variation must be
agreedtoby allplayersbeforethebeginningofthegame.
• Players start with $60 million and three premovement
turns.
• Discard the Event cards dealt during the initial deal; do not
shufflethemintothedeck.
• Freights and heavy freights move 12 mileposts per turn,
and fast freights and superfreights move 16 mileposts per
turn. Half rate movement is 6 and 8 mileposts per turn
respectively.
• The Rail Tax Event card has no effect and is immediately
discarded.
• The first player who has $250 million is the winner; the
playerdoes nothavetoconnectfivemajorcities.
• Sudden DeathAsudden death game lasts until the last card
in the deck is drawn. The game ends at the end of the
drawing player's move. The player with the greatest sum
of money wins.Aplayer may not discard his entire hand if
fewer thantwelve(12)cardsremaininthedeck.
• Reduce the load chip availability by one load for every
good. For example, only 3 loads of Oil are available,
ratherthan4 loads.
• Only two players may build track into a medium city, and
only one player may build track into a small city.Aplayer
who intends on building into a small city must have a
Demand card with a demand for that city or for a
commodity available at the city. Once the player builds
into the city, that demand must be fulfilled, and only when
that demand is fulfilled may the Demand card be
discarded.
•Any load may be dropped at any city. If the load is available
in that city, it is returned to the tray. If not, it remains in that
city. If there is already a load at the city, the first load is
returnedtothetray,andthenewlydroppedloadremains.
The player may borrow up to $20 million from
thebankandimmediate
ly spend it on building or hold it to pay other players' track
use fee. The player must repay the bank double the amount
borrowed from all delivery payoffs until the doubled amount
is completelyrepaid.
The player may use another
player's track and pay the track usage fee from delivery
payoffs obtained by delivering loads while on the other
player's track.
A player may reverse his train's direction on
any milepost (not just a city milepost) at the cost of losing
one full turn. A train which backtracks can move in any
direction in its next turn.Atrain may not backtrack when the
player has discarded his cards during the same turn. A train
may backtrack if it cannot move for any other reason (e.g.
derailment and Canadian Rail Strike). A player whose train
backtracks while on an opponent's track is assessed the use
feefor thatturn.
A player may completely restart his position as
follows:
• At the beginning of his turn, the player declares that he is
restarting. The player then discards his Demand cards,
returns his Loco card to the bank, returns any loads to the
tray, returns all his money to the bank, and erases his track.
Any other player may protect part or all of the restarting
player's track (for example, a player riding the restarting
player's track will protect the route back to his own track).
Protected track is not erased and remains the restarting
player's trackfor therestof thegame.
• The player receives a freight Loco card, $40 million, and
three new Demand cards. Event cards drawn take effect
normally.
• The player may build up to $20 million on the restart turn.
The player restarts his train (pawn) at any city at the
beginningof his nextturn.
Play continues until a stated time limit, after
which time play goes one round, until the last player to start
has finished his turn. The player whose continuous line of
track connects five of the major cities and who has the most
cash wins. If no player's track connects five major cities, the
playerwiththemostcashwins.
EMPIRE BUILDER
Be Alert:
Empire
Builder
Fast Game
Honeymoon Game:
EmpireBuilderforTwo
Mercy
Borrowing
Late Payment of Use Fee
Backtracking
Restart
Tournament Rules
Time Limit
To speed up the play of
, use any or all of
thefollowingrulechanges:
The Fast Game rules are recommended for use by
beginningand youngerplayers.
For play by two persons (or for particularly challenging
playbythree),usetheserulechanges:
During play by beginners (but also by old hands), it
occasionally happens that a player becomes trapped and
unable to build or move to get out of the predicament.
Sometimes, the solution comes from merely discarding the
player's hand and getting new cards; more often the position
is untenable. To let the player continue to enjoy the game, try
oneoftheserules:
In addition to strict adherence to all stated rules, the
tournament directorshould enforcetheseadditionalrules:

Equal Turns
Crossgrading
Challenge Game
Slow Start
Limited City Access
Field Warehousing
Open Contracts
Reshuffle
Cost to Move
Cost to Load
AdditionalTrains
Branching
SellingandTradingTrack
New Loads & Demands
The Circus
PlayTip
When a player declares victory (connecting 5
major cities and having $250 million), play continues until
the last player to start has finished his turn. If two or more
players all declare victory in the turn, the one with the most
cash wins. In the event of a tie, the victory limit becomes
$300 and play continues, with all players still eligible to win;
if no player's track connects 5 major cities, the player with
themostcashwins.
A player may crossgrade from a fast freight to a heavy
freight, or vice versa, for $5 million. When a player
crossgrades, he may also spend up to $15 million to build
track in the same turn. There is no limit to the number of
times a player may crossgrade. Money spent on
crossgrading does not count towards the upgrade to a
superfreight.
Start with $30 million and a Slow Freight, which
travels up to 6 mileposts per turn and may carry 2 loads.
Players may upgrade the slow freight to a freight by paying
$20 million;upgradesoccurnormallyafterwards.
For games of 5 or more players: a
player may only build one track section from a major city
milepost in a turn. A player may have only 2 track sections
connectingtoasmallormediumcity.
Loads dropped off in a city without a
payoff remain at that city for 4 turns. During that time, any
player may pick up that load by passing through the city and
picking it up normally. At the end of the dropping player's
fourthsubsequent turn,theloadisreturnedtothetray.
Whenever a player discards his hand, the
discarded Demand cards are not placed on the discard pile,
butareplacedon theboard.
These cards are
available to all players.
The first player to deliver a load on an open contract picks
the card from the table, discards it, and receives the payoff
for thedeliveryintheusualway.
Only four open contracts may be face up on the table at any
time;additionalcardsareimmediatelydiscarded.
Use a blank card and write
on it.Add the
cardtothedeck.Whenitisdrawn, reshufflethedeck.
Each player must pay $1 million per turn that
his train moves on its own track. The $4 million cost for
movingon theotherplayers' tracksremainsthesame.
Each player uses one milepost of movement to
pick up or drop off one load. For example, if a player both
picks up 1 load and drops off 1 load or if a player picks up 2
loads,theplayerhas used 2 milepostsof movement.
Each player starts with two trains, a freight and a fast
freight, which may be upgraded in the usual way. Both move
and may move in the same turn. Players may (by mutual
agreement)havefour Demandcards insteadof three.
Players may build track from mileposts connected to any
player's track. No junction charge is paid. User fees are
chargedintheusualway.
Instead of building track, a player may purchase track
from another player for whatever price both players agree to.
The purchase may take place only in the purchasing player's
turn. Players can agree to trade track for track, with no
moneyinvolved.
In both trading and selling, the selling player replaces his
coloredlineswithlinesof thenew owner's color.
Take two load chips and mark them
. At
the start of the game, put both load chips in Tampa, where
theywillremainuntilpickedup (likefieldwarehousing).
Each Demand card with a number divisible by 10 (eg. 20,
30, ..., 110, 120, 130) is modified by changing the lowest
payoff demand(s); that demand becomes $20 million to
delivertheCircus tothatcity.
The Demand card then works normally, but when the
Circus is delivered to a city, it remains there until picked up
anddeliveredagain.
A player may not pick up the Circus unless he has a
Demand card for the Circus. However, it may be dropped
without payoff at any city, and if it is lost from a Derailment
Eventcard,itis placedatthenearestcity.
Some people have trouble keeping track of whose turn it
is. For them, we recommend passing some object from
player to player, the possession being with the player whose
turn it is. The best object is a 12sided die (available through
all specialty game stores), since, in addition to indicating
whose turn it is, it can be turned to show the number of
mileposts remaining in a player's movement when the player
stops toloador todelivergoods.
To create a more challenging game for experienced
players, use anyor allofthefollowingrulechanges:
open contracts
Reshuffle
A multitude of new loads have been proposed, from beer
(from Milwaukee and Detroit) and electronics (from Austin,
TX and Boston), to textiles (from Raleigh). To create new
loads, mark them on the map (using a new color of crayon)
and use the blank stickers and cards to make new load chips
and demand cards. Try your hand at it. Our favorite new one
is:
Circus

MAPCLARIFICATIONS
The following five illustrations clarify the permissibility and
costof trackbuildingincertainspecialcasesontheboard.
These track
sections cross
ocean inlets and
cost an additional
$3 million to build
across. These are
the only track
sections in this
area that cross
ocean inlets.
The illustrated track
section crosses the
Ohio River.
These are not inlets.
This is clearly an
ocean inlet
This track section
crosses an ocean
inlet and costs a
total of $5 million
to build across ($3
million for an ocean
inlet and $2 million
for a mountain
milepost).
The Great Lakes may only be
crossed at the points shown
below. The cost for crossing at
these points is the same as for
crossing a river; $2 million in
addition to the regular cost of
building to a milepost.