Draft rulebook. Gameplay, visuals, and tallies 
are subject to change.
Endeavor: Deep Sea is a scenario-driven game. That means that each time you play, 
you’ll choose a Scenario sheet that establishes the setup, special rules, scoring goals, and 
Impact board of your game.
Every single scenario can be played in competitive multiplayer mode, cooperative 
mode, and solo mode. Read the rulebook to learn competitive play, and then check the 
Co-op/Solo section on page 16 to discover the few changes you implement to play in 
those modes.
Your goal in Endeavor: Deep Sea is to have the most beneficial effect on the world’s oceans, from the teeming shallows to the mysterious 
depths. In each of many scenarios, you’ll score points by increasing your attributes (Reputation, Inspiration, Coordination, and Ingenuity),by 
taking a variety of actions that create positive Impact, by meeting the scenario’s unique Goals, and by employing high-level Specialists.
At the beginning of the game, only a small area near the ocean surface is accessible. As the game progresses, your reach will extend wider 
and ever deeper into new zones, each with their own opportunities for discovery. Your challenge will be to recruit an effective team of 
Specialists, expand your fleet of sophisticated vessels, and develop the capabilities you’ll need to stay at the leading edge of this endeavor. 
Your goal above all is for your team to make the biggest positive impact on the ocean that blankets our fragile planet.
This is a game of discovery, observation, understanding, and conservation. You won’t be extracting anything material from the ocean; 
everything you draw from it is an intangible benefit that will make you better at what you do!
Gain Reputation to increase your ability to recruit team members: You will 
add a new Specialist to your team every round. Improving your Reputation 
means that you will attract more effective Specialists. 
Gain Inspiration to increase the number of discs you gain each round: Discs 
represent the effort you expend activating your Specialists and carrying out 
actions.
Gain Coordination to increase your ability to reassign discs from your 
Specialists to your Staging Area: With greater Coordination your Specialists 
will be consistently be ready to perform new tasks.
Gain Ingenuity to increase your technical proficiency: Improved technology 
puts more vessels at your disposal, and allows you to pilot them further into 
the mysterious depths.
Gain Impact to place Impact markers on the scenario-specific Impact board: 
This is a representation of how your activities in the ocean impact the world. 
Gaining Impact provides a variety of bonuses throughout the game and is 
very important for final scoring.
Score Points to win the game.
YOUR MISSION
1-4 PLAYERS • 14+ • 80’
BY CARL DE VISSER & JARRATT GRAY
ART BY MARUŠA GORJUP, FAHED ALRAJIL & JOSH CAPPEL
WHAT YOU TAKE FROM THE SEA
PLAY AGAINST YOUR FRIENDS, OR WITH THEM, OR WITHOUT THEM

COMPONENTS
30 DIVE TOKENS
4 PLAYER MATS
46 SPECIALIST TILES
4 TEAM LEADER TILES
A NOTE ON JUNIORS AND SENIORS
32 OCEAN BOARDS
SONAR TRACK
REPUTATION TRACK
SCORING BRACKETS
FLOW OF PLAY
RESEARCH TRACK
DIVE TOKEN STORAGE
STAGING AREA
RECRUITMENT 
TIER
ACTIVATION 
CIRCLE
ACTIVATION 
CIRCLE
ACTIONS
ACTIONS
IMMEDIATE 
GAINS
IMMEDIATE 
GAINS
PROMOTION BAR
VESSEL GAIN
INSPIRATION TRACK
COORDINATION TRACK
INGENUITY TRACK
RECRUITMENT LEVEL
EFFORT LEVEL
REASSIGNMENT LEVEL
TECHNOLOGY LEVEL
PROMOTES TO
JUNIOR SIDE
SENIOR SIDE
DEPTH
BACK
SAMPLE FRONTS
CONSERVATION SITES
DISCOVERY
BONUS
ARRIVAL
BONUS
TRAVEL 
BOX
DIVE SITE
MARKED SPACE
Special rules often 
relate to these
Shows what’s on 
the Senior side
SPECIAL 
RULE
LINKS
THE FIVE DIFFERENT 
BACKS
JOURNAL SITES
The Ocean boards create the play area during the game; once a board enters play, it is called a zone. There are five 
different depths of zone, indicated by the 
 symbols found on the front and back. Zones share many common 
features to interact with; some zones feature special rules and effects.
There are 16 different Specialists. Each one has a Junior (blue) and a Senior (gold) side. 
Your starting tiles. They start as Seniors.
All of the Specialists (whether Junior 
or Senior) represent highly skilled and 
highly educated scientists, technicians, 
and experts in other fields.
Junior/Senior status is not descriptive 
of the profession itself; it refers to that 
Specialist’s experience participating as 
a member of your team.

23 JOURNALS
7 ANCHOR JOURNALS
120 DISCS
20 TRACK CUBES
80 IMPACT MARKERS
12 VESSELS
1 WAVE MARKER
4 DOUBLE-SIDED SCENARIO SHEETS
6 CO-OP GOAL CARDS
30 FOR EACH PLAYER
5 FOR EACH PLAYER
20 FOR EACH PLAYER
3 FOR EACH PLAYER
MISSION DETAILS AND SETUP
THE IMPACT BOARD
RESEARCH 
COST
VARIOUS 
BENEFITS
ANCHOR 
SYMBOL
FIELD 
SYMBOLS
TITLE
CO-OP GOALS
SCORING GOALS
OCEAN BOARD DIAGRAM
SPECIAL RULES
FINAL SCORING
1 SCORE PAD
Each one describes the setup and any special rules of its mission. It displays unique goals that 
will be a big part of your final score, and an Impact board where you’ll direct the impact 
 you 
gain towards your strategic goals. Each one also displays Co-op goals.
Extra goals for when you are 
playing in Co-op or Solo mode.
These are just like regular Journals 
but are designed to start the game. 
Each one tells you what Fields it belongs to, its 
Research cost, and the benefits it gives upon 
being published. 

SETUP
Scenario Sheet. Select a Scenario sheet and place it on the 
table. It has setup, scoring information and (sometimes) 
special rules that everyone should be aware of. 
First game? Use Mission 1: The Call of the Ocean.
In Mission 1, place your Vessel at The 
Sea Star, and gain its Arrival bonus 
of one disc to your Staging Area. 
Ocean Stacks: Shuffle all of the remaining boards into 
five separate face down stacks based on their depth.
Ocean Boards. Your Scenario Sheet tells you which 
boards to put into play, and the diagram shows their 
configuration. Find the right boards and arrange them 
as shown. Make sure to leave enough room around them 
for this mission’s grid of boards to develop. The diagram 
on the sheet shows you how wide the grid may go; the 
maximum depth is five unless otherwise indicated. Once 
an Ocean board is in play, it is referred to as a zone.
Dive tokens: Shuffle the Dive tokens into a face-down 
supply. Draw tokens to make a face-down stack of the 
indicated amount on every zone that has a Dive site. 
For example, The Sea Star has a Dive 
site that starts with four Dive tokens.
Journals: Shuffle the Anchor Journal and Journal decks 
separately. Lay out four random Anchor Journals face-
up in a display; return the rest to the box. Keep the 
shuffled Journal deck face down near the display.
Player Materials: Choose your player color. Take a 
Player mat, a Team Leader tile, and the component 
set in your color: 30 discs, 5 track cubes, 20 Impact 
markers, and 3 Vessels.
Place your five track cubes on the 0 spaces of your 
Attribute and Research tracks.
Place your Team Leader near your mat, and one of 
your discs on its activation circle.
Keep the remainder of your discs in a supply pile not 
near your Staging area. Discs in your supply are not 
available to you; they must enter play before you can 
use them, so it’s wise to keep them notably distant.
Keep your Impact markers near the Impact board.
Deploy your starting Vessel to the launch zone as 
described by the scenario, and gain its Arrival bonus 
(see Arrival Bonus pg. 11); keep your other Vessels 
near your player mat.
Specialists: Place the prepared Specialist tray nearby. 
Tiers 1-4 should remain properly organized from your last 
play. For Tier 5s, shuffle them (blue Junior-side up), and 
distribute them as evenly as possibly in the pockets of 
the rightmost column.
The Wave: Randomly choose a start player, and give 
them the Wave start marker.
MISSION 1
OCEAN BOARD DIAGRAM
MISSION 1
D
D

Tier 1-4 Specialists: Flip them all Junior (blue) side up, and separate them into stacks by title. 
Place the three tier-1 stacks in the first (leftmost) column’s pockets, the tier-2 stacks in the 
second column’s pockets, and so on.
Once you’ve prepared the tray once, it will stay pretty much prepared for all future 
games; when you clean up, just put the Specialists back in their proper pockets. The 
only thing you need to do for each new game is re-randomize your Tier-5s!
Short on table space for your 
stacks? Try this stacking 
method: Criss-cross the stacks 
with shallowest on top and 
deepest on the bottom.
Tier-5 Specialists: Make a shuffled stack, Junior-side up. Distribute the tiles as evenly as you 
can in the pockets of the rightmost column.
TIER 1
(5 OF EACH)
TIER 2
(4 OF EACH)
TIER 3
(3 OF EACH)
TIER 4
(2 OF EACH)
TIER 5
(ALL UNIQUE)
PREPARING THE SPECIALIST TRAY

GAMEPLAY
REWARD SYMBOLS
1a) RECRUITMENT • Recruit one Specialist
PHASE 1: PREPARATION • Each player conducts the following three steps:
1b) EFFORT • Gain discs from your supply to your Staging Area
1c) REASSIGNMENT • Reclaim discs from your Specialists to your Staging Area
PHASE 2: STAGING • Players take turns activating Specialists to perform actions,
continuing clockwise until everyone has passed
The game is played over six rounds. Each round consists of two phases. The 
player with the Wave goes first in each phase, with the other players following 
in a clockwise order*.
Often during the game you will gain rewards in various ways; methods include recruitment 
or promotion of Specialists, various aspects of the Ocean zones, the Impact Board, Journals, 
and more. Here are some of the common rewards and other symbols:
Your player mat includes 
a “flow of play” diagram 
to remind you of the phase 
order. Faint lines indicate 
the attribute track that 
affects each phase.
Advance your Reputation track marker one step
Advance your Inspiration track marker one step
Advance your Coordination track marker one step
Advance your Ingenuity track marker one step
Advance an attribute marker of your choice one step
Advance your lowest attribute marker one step (your choice if tied)
Advance your Research track marker one step
Place one marker on the Impact Board (see The Impact Board pg.14)
Gain one disc from your supply to your Staging Area
Promote a Specialist (see Promotions pg.13)
Perform a Sonar action in this zone
Perform a Sonar action
Discard a disc from your Staging Area to your supply
Spend 2 Research
1a
1b
1c

PHASE 1a: RECRUITMENT
PHASE 1b: EFFORT
PHASE 1c: REASSIGNMENT
On your turn, choose one Specialist from the tray and add it to your own 
tableau. Your 
 Reputation track’s advancement determines the highest 
tier from which you can recruit; your Recruitment level on the lower row of 
the track is displayed in 
 symbols.
Each Junior Specialist displays a number of 
 symbols in the top corner 
indicating its tier; to recruit a particular Specialist, your Recruitment level 
must match (or exceed) the tier.
Example: Your Recruitment level is 
 
, so you could recruit any 
Specialist from tier 2 or below.
You recruit this Navigator from 
tier 2. It displays an immediate 
gain of one Inspiration, so you 
advance your Inspiration marker 
one step on its track.
Example: Your Effort level is 
 
 
, 
so you gain three discs from your Supply 
to your Staging area.
Example: Your Reassignment level is 
 , so you will only be 
able to reclaim one disc. Since you have two Specialists with 
discs on them, you’ll have to choose. You go with your Team 
Leader, since it’s more versatile than your Pilot.
Gain new discs from your supply to the Staging Area of your Player mat. 
Your 
 Inspiration track’s advancement determines the number of discs 
you gain; your Effort level on the lower row of the track is displayed in 
 
symbols. Gain one disc per symbol.
On your turn, “reassign your Specialists” by reclaiming discs from your 
Specialists to your Staging Area; this frees up both the disc and the Specialist 
for future use. Your 
 Coordination track’s advancement determines the 
number of discs you may reclaim; your Reassignment level on the lower row 
of the track is displayed in 
 symbols. Reclaim one disc per symbol.
•	Your recruited Specialist always enters play on its Junior side.
•	You may recruit duplicates of Specialists you already have.
•	If your new Specialist displays any immediate gains, resolve them before 
proceeding to the next step.
•	Any 
 or 
 that you gain during this step does affect the following two 
steps; this may factor into your recruitment decision! 
•	If you recruit the last tier-5 Specialist from a pocket, redistribute the 
remaining tier-5s (if possible) so that there is at least one in each pocket.
•	If your supply runs out of discs, gain what you can and forfeit the rest.
•	If you don’t have enough Coordination to reassign all of your Specialists, 
choose which ones to reassign and leave the excess discs in place.
In the first round, you will have a single disc on your Team Leader, and the 
capability to reassign one Specialist… so you will be able to reclaim that disc 
back to your Staging Area.

PHASE 2: STAGING
Players take turns beginning with whoever has the Wave, and proceeding 
clockwise. On your turn you must either take a turn or pass. Once you 
have passed, you may take no further turns in this phase, and the turn order 
continues clockwise, skipping you. Play proceeds in this manner, with still-
active players continuing in turn order until all players have passed (see End 
of the Round, pg. 14).
For example, with a Vessel at The Sea Star, you could Travel, Sonar, 
Dive (symbol is on the Dive tokens), and Journal (in two places).
You take a turn by activating a Specialist. To activate a Specialist, place a disc 
from your Staging Area on a Specialist in your tableau that has an empty 
activation circle (not every Specialist has one). Then you may perform the 
Specialist’s action(s).
The disc you place on the Specialist simply permits you to take its actions. 
Some action types will then require you to use an additional disc from your 
Staging area (not your supply) to actually carry out the action. If you don’t 
have a second disc in your Staging Area to carry out an action that needs one, 
it is usually a waste of a disc to activate the Specialist.
•	To perform an action in a zone, you must have a Vessel in that zone.
•	The places in each zone where you can perform the different actions are 
clearly signposted with an outlined version of the relevant action symbol.
•	If you ever reach the 
 Impact symbol near the end of any attribute track, 
gain one Impact (see the Impact Board pg. 14). If you ever advance beyond 
the end of a track, retreat the cube back to the Impact symbol and gain it 
again, as indicated by the arrow.
•	The 
 Ingenuity track unlocks additional Vessels for you. As soon as 
your marker reaches a spot with a Vessel icon, place the new Vessel at the 
Mission’s Launch zone (indicated on the Scenario sheet) and gain its Arrival 
bonus (see Arrival Bonus pg. 9).
•	Some Specialists display multiple action symbols with a “/” symbol 
between them; in this case you must choose one of the actions to perform. 
•	Some Specialists display multiple action symbols without a “/” symbol 
between them. You may perform any or all of the actions, in any order 
you choose. Performing multiple actions from one Specialist still counts as 
one turn. The actions may be performed in different zones. Resolve each 
action fully before beginning the next.
•	You may activate a Specialist and then not perform its action(s).
GENERAL RULES OF THE STAGING PHASE
TAKING TURNS
Single-action Example:
Placing a disc on the empty 
activation circle of your Reef Diver 
would let you take a Dive action.
Choice-of-Action Example:
Activating your Ecologist would let 
you take either a Travel action or a 
Conservation action.
Multiple-Action Example:
Activating your Field Researcher 
would let you take a Sonar action 
and a Journal action, in either order.
TO TRAVEL
TO SONAR
TO DIVE
TO CONSERVE
TO JOURNAL

THE ACTIONS
TRAVEL Move a Vessel to a different zone, to gain its arrival bonus and enable you to take other actions there.
Move one of your Vessels from its current zone to a different 
one. Your Vessel movement capabilities are limited by your 
 Ingenuity track’s advancement; your Technology level on 
the lower row of the track is displayed in 
 symbols.
After moving a Vessel to a zone, immediately gain the Arrival 
bonus for that zone (only the final destination zone, not the 
zones passed through along the way). The Arrival bonus is 
displayed below the Travel symbol in each zone.
•	You do get the Arrival bonus when place a new Vessel in 
its launch zone, including your starting Vessel at game 
start. Your Scenario sheet’s Setup describes the launch 
zone(s) for this Mission.
•	The maximum depth you may move your Vessel to is 
equal to your Technology level.
•	The maximum distance (measured in zones) that your 
Vessel may move from its current zone is also equal to 
your Technology level. A Vessel moves horizontally or 
vertically from zone to zone, one zone at a time.
•	Keep your Vessels in the Travel box of their current zone.
For example, your Technology level is three, represented as 
 
 
 . That means 
that your Vessel could go as deep as depth-3, and it could move up to three zones 
away from its current location. 
Your Vessel in the Kelp Forest could travel to any of 
the zones shown here. It can’t reach the Coldwater 
Reef (too far away), or the Brine Pool (too deep). 
You decide to go to the Thermal Vents. Upon arrival, you gain 
the Arrival bonus... which is an Ingenuity 
 gain! Now you’re 
a step closer to being able to go deeper and further!
ARRIVAL BONUS

2-4
4+
SONAR (Requires a second disc) Add a disc to a Sonar track, to gain rewards and discover new ocean zones.
Place a disc from your Staging Area on the “earliest” 
unoccupied space of a Sonar track in a zone where you have 
a Vessel. Sonar tracks show you which spots are earlier and 
which are later; follow the arrows.
Draw two Ocean boards. Each Discover symbol indicates the 
depths of the stacks you could draw from.
For example if it says “1-2”, you could draw two boards from 
depth-1, or two from depth-2, or one from each.
Look at both boards, and choose one to place (return the 
other to the bottom of its stack). Place your chosen board in 
any legal spot you wish at the correct depth; now that the 
board is in play, it is referred to as a zone.
Claim the new zone’s Discovery bonus. Discovery bonuses 
are one-time rewards displayed faintly on the top left corner.
Some Sonar track spaces display common rewards; claim 
them as usual. Most Sonar track spaces indicate that you may 
Discover a new zone to add to the growing ocean.
•	If the zone features multiple tracks, you may choose 
which track to place upon.
•	Placing the disc may complete a link (see Completing 
Links, pg. 13)
•	You may draw and place a board that is too deep for you 
to currently travel to.
•	Your Scenario sheet shows the limits of your Mission’s 
play area, indicating where new depth-1 zones may be 
placed to create columns.
•	With the exception of depth-1, there must be a zone of 
the shallower depth to place it below. (For example, you 
may not place a depth-4 board unless there is a depth-3 
zone with an empty space below it.)
•	If your Discovery is impossible to resolve (for example 
if the icon says “1-2” and both of those depths are already 
full), you must draw from the shallowest possible depth 
with a legal placement spot, and continue as normal.
•	If the zone has a Dive site in it, 
place the indicated number of Dive 
tokens face down in the Dive site.
DISCOVER
STEP 1: CHOOSE YOUR BOARD
STEP 2: PLACE THE NEW ZONE
STEP 3: DISCOVERY BONUS
For example, if you Sonar while you have a Vessel on Calm Seas, you could place 
your disc on either of its two Sonar tracks. If you choose the left one, you will 
gain 
 
. If you choose the right one (notice that Yellow placed on the track 
earlier, so you have to place in a later space), you will Discover a new zone.
For example, your Discovery symbol indicates depths 1-2. According 
to your Scenario, there are two spots you could place a depth-1, and 
there is a legal depth-2 spot below the Dying Reef. You decide to 
draw one board from each stack.
You get the Atoll (depth 1), and the Sunken Ruins 
(depth 2). You consider them both (taking into 
account how their various features might help you 
succeed), and choose the Sunken Ruins. You return 
the Atoll to the bottom of its stack.
You place the Sunken Ruins in the 
one legal depth-2 spot, and add 
the five Dive tokens to its Dive site 
as indicated.
Finally, you collect its Discovery 
Bonus of 
 
The Discover symbol shows two boards 
(to remind you that you always draw two 
to choose from), and it has a number or 
a number range in it to indicate which 
depths you may draw from.
DEPTHS 2-4
DEPTH 4 OR 
DEEPER
DEPTH 3 ONLY

?
DIVE Draw the top token from a Dive site; tokens have varied uses and are an important source of valuable Research. 
CONSERVE (Requires a second disc) Spend Research and place a disc in a Conservation site to gain rewards (often Impact).
Choose a zone (where you have a Vessel) that has a Dive 
site with one or more Dive tokens remaining. Draw the top 
token from the Dive site, and reveal it.
Choose an available Conservation site in a zone where you 
have a Vessel. Pay the displayed Research cost of the site, and 
gain any indicated rewards. Place a disc from your Staging 
Area in the site; this may complete a link (see Completing 
Links, pg. 13).
Dive tokens display some amount of 
 Research (which you 
require for Conserve and Journal actions, see below). Most 
tokens also display an extra action or other benefit. 
During your turn, you may spend any number of Dive 
tokens. When you spend a token, you must choose between 
its Research value (reflect the gain on your Research track), or 
its action/benefit.
Discard spent tokens into a discard pile. If the Dive token 
supply ever runs out, shuffle the discards into a new supply.
At the end of your turn, you may store a maximum of one 
Dive token if you wish (there is a spot on your player mat for 
it); you must spend excess tokens before ending your turn.
Actions with a Research cost show this symbol, with a number 
indicating the cost. Spend that amount of Research from the 
Research track on your player mat (reflect the change by 
moving your cube). Remember that you may also spend Dive 
tokens for their displayed Research value at any time.
PAYING RESEARCH COSTS
•	You may spend a Dive token on the same turn that you 
obtain it.
•	A spent token’s extra action may be performed before 
or after your Specialist’s action, or between its actions if 
it is a multiple-action Specialist. 
•	You may not spend a Dive token for its extra action 
as a standalone turn; taking a turn always requires a 
Specialist to be activated.
•	You may activate a Specialist, decline to perform any of 
its actions, and still spend a Dive token for its action.
DIVE TOKENS
For example, you Dive while you have a Vessel at 
the Ledge Elevator. You take the top token from the 
stack and reveal it; it is a choice between 3 Research 
and a Travel action. You may spend it for either 
aspect, or store it on your mat for a later turn.
For example, you Conserve while you have a Vessel at the Kelp Forest. You have 3 
Research, so you could afford either Conservation site here. You pay 2 Research for 
the upper site, place a disc there, and gain the indicated 
 
THE DIVE TOKENS

JOURNAL (Requires a second disc) Spend Research to publish a Journal, which grants Promotions and other benefits.
In a zone where you have a Vessel, choose an unoccupied 
Journal site with a Field Symbol that is also featured on a 
Journal in the display that you wish to publish (it is okay if 
there are also other Field symbols on that Journal).
Spend the Research Cost indicated on the Journal, and place 
a disc from your Staging Area in the site. This may complete 
a link (see Completing Links, pg. 13).
Claim your published Journal. They display a variety of 
benefits, in four categories:
Instant: These benefits are immediately gained 
by you. One extremely common Instant effect 
is Promotion (See Promotion, pg.13).
Others: These benefits are immediately gained 
by all other players (not you).
Discard: If you discard the Journal card (from 
the game) under the specified conditions, you 
can activate the described effect.
Once per Round: Once per round under the 
specified conditions, you can use the card’s 
described effect.
Pivot the card 90º to mark it as spent for the 
round; you’ll reset your pivoted cards at the end 
of the round.
For example, you Journal while you have a Vessel at The Looking Glass. There 
are two available Journal sites here; their Field symbols are present on two of 
the Journals in the display. You could afford either, and decide to publish the 
Optimizing Multi-team Discovery Briefs Journal.
You spend the 3 Research, add a disc to the Journal site with the 
symbol, claim the card, and re-fill the display.
You immediately gain 
 
 , and may Promote 
one of your Specialists.
Every other player immediately gains 
Once per round before Conserving, you may discard a disc from 
your Staging Area to gain 2 Research any number of times.
Discard this Journal when you Conserve, to Conserve again 
in the same row or column as if the Research Cost was zero.
ONCE PER ROUND 
PIVOT THIS CARD
DISCARD THIS 
JOURNAL
WHEN THIS 
HAPPENS
WHEN THIS 
HAPPENS
TO LET YOU 
DO THIS
TO DO 
THIS
•	If no Journals in the display feature the site’s Field 
symbol, you may not currently Journal at that site.

PROMOTION
COMPLETING LINKS
Choose a Junior Specialist in your tableau, and flip it to its 
Senior side. Gain any attribute, Research, or Impact benefits 
as displayed.
Remember that the Promotion bar on the bottom of each 
Junior Specialist shows what is on the Senior side.
•	You do not lose any attribute symbols that were on the 
Junior side.
•	If there was a disc on the Junior’s activation circle 
when you promoted it, discard the disc to your supply.
•	If your own disc occupies both ends of the link, you do 
not get the reward twice.
•	It is possible for multiple links to be completed at once.
•	The active player gains their rewards first, then any 
other players in clockwise order.
Some zone features are connected by lines called links. 
When both ends of a link are occupied by a disc, the link is 
completed.
At the moment of completion, both players with discs at 
either end of the link immediately gain the reward displayed 
on the link itself.
For example, you Promote your Pilot into a Skipper. 
The disc that was on the Pilot is lost, and you gain the 
Skipper’s indicated 
 
For example, placing your disc in this Conservation site would 
complete three links at once. In clockwise player order:
•	You (purple) gain rewards from all three links: 
 
 
•	Yellow gains 
•	Red gains 
FLIP

The Impact Board on each Scenario sheet represents the 
positive impact that your efforts in the ocean are making on 
the world in general.
Impact boards in earlier Missions are fairly simple, but as you 
proceed through scenarios you will discover the wide variety of 
effects and opportunities that this aspect of the game introduces.
The board is a grid of hexes displaying various rewards and 
other benefits. When you gain Impact 
 during the game by 
any means, place a marker from your supply in an empty hex, 
and gain any reward printed there.
You may only place in a hex with an entry arrow pointing to 
it, or in a hex that touches any other occupied hex. 
Once all players have passed, the round ends.
If that was the sixth round, the game ends immediately; 
proceed to final scoring. You can tell if that was the sixth 
round, because each player will have seven Specialists in 
their tableau (including their Team Leader).
If the game hasn’t ended, all players reset their pivoted 
Once Per Round Journals. The Wave is passed clockwise 
to establish a new start player, and a new round begins.
•	Occupying hexes of certain colors (indicated in the 
scoring legend) will score points at the end of the game.
•	A hex with a ∞ symbol in it can hold any number of 
markers (place them in the attached larger area if you 
need room).
THE IMPACT BOARD
For example, you have gained an Impact, so you get to 
place a marker on the Impact board. All of the circled 
hexes are eligible spots, since they are either at an entry 
arrow or they are beside an occupied hex.
Remember that 
markers in 
certain hexes will 
score points at the 
end of the game!
Once the ∞ hex is filled, 
any number of markers 
can go in the attached 
area and earn the same 
score as the ∞ hex. 
SCORING 
LEGEND
END OF THE ROUND

?
The player with the highest final score wins!
In the event of a tie, the tied players share the victory.
From your attribute tracks, you score 7 + 10 + 4 +7, for a total of 28 points.
You (purple) have three markers in 1-point hexes, and three in 2-point hexes 
(including the two in the ∞ area). That totals to 9 points from the Impact board. 
You have presence in 11 different zones; that works 
out to 3 points from your Legendary Adventurer 
tier-5 Senior Specialist. 
Your final score is 63 points... is that enough for you to win the game?
You have six Sonar discs in the ocean, which 
wins 1st place. You score (6 + 5) 11 points for 
this goal. 
You have five Conservation discs in the ocean, 
which wins 2nd place. You score (5 + 4) 9 points 
for this goal. 
You have three Journal discs in the ocean, but 
since there was a tie for 1st, no 2nd-place bonus 
is awarded. You score 3 points for this goal. 
FINAL SCORING
Tally your scores in the 
following order. Use the 
provided Score pad to 
keep track.
Scoring brackets run across the top of your player mat and 
apply to all four tracks. Each track marker scores the value of 
the scoring bracket it has reached.
Earn points for your markers in scoring hexes, as indicated 
by the Scoring Legend.
Each Mission has several goals, and each goal describes how 
it awards points. 
Many Goals offer leader bonuses for having the most of 
something. Award those bonuses as described.
Each tier-5 Senior Specialist describes endgame points that 
you can earn for satisfying its criteria.
ATTRIBUTE TRACKS
IMPACT BOARD
MISSION GOALS
TIER-5 SENIOR SPECIALISTS
•	If more than one player ties for 1st place, they all earn 
the 1st-place bonus and no 2nd place is awarded. If a 
single player earns 1st and there is a tie for 2nd place, all 
tied players earn the 2nd-place bonus.
•	If you do not satisfy a Goal’s criteria at all, you do not 
qualify for its leader bonus. For example, with a Goal 
that awards points for Vessels in depth-5, if you have zero 
Vessels at that depth you can not score a “most” bonus.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Every scenario can be played in Cooperative (Co-op) mode. 
Solo mode is no different from Co-op; it is effectively one-
player Co-op.
There are almost no changes to the rules. The only difference 
is that in Solo mode you play seven rounds instead of six.
Instead of scoring points towards an individual score, you 
will be attempting (as a group) to meet certain thresholds 
for a series of goals. There will be seven goals in your game: 
Play the game as usual. At the end of the sixth round (seventh 
in Solo), assess your Goals to see how many you achieved, 
and find your team result on this chart:
Published as a team by
Burnt Island Games
and Grand Gamers Guild
burntislandgames.com
grandgamersguild.com
©2023 All rights reserved
COOPERATIVE AND SOLO MODES
CREDITS AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
THE IMPACT BOARD GOAL
GAME DESIGN & DEVELOPMENT
ILLUSTRATION
ART DIRECTION, GRAPHIC DESIGN, RULEBOOK
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
COMMUNICATIONS
INSERT DESIGN
Carl de Visser & Jarratt Gray
Maruša Gorjup & Fahed Alrajil
Josh Cappel
Helaina Cappel & Marc Specter
Sean Jacquemain & Glenn Flaherty
Game Trayz
THREE MISSION GOALS
THREE RANDOM GOALS
The Impact board has a Co-op Goal sign. It 
describes how many points your team must 
earn (from the Impact board and Specialists 
combined), to achieve the Co-op goal.
Each Mission Goal has a Co-op Goal 
banner at the bottom. It describes the 
threshold your team must meet (related 
to the particular Mission goal it is 
attached to), to achieve the Co-op goal.
For example, with this Impact board goal in a 
3-player game, the goal is 33 points in total, 
from the described sources. Not literally 12 
points each.
Your team could hypothetically succeed (for 
example) with one player earning 20, one 
player earning 13, and one player earning 0.
Shuffle the Co-op Goal cards (mix 
them front to back as well), and lay 
out a random display of three. If any 
of them indicate that they are not 
suitable for your player count, draw a 
replacement. When you have a viable 
set of three, return the rest to the box.
Each one describes the threshold your 
team must meet to achieve its goal.
•	Most Co-op Goals require you to reach a minimum 
amount of a particular criteria; this does not mean that 
each player must individually meet that goal; the team’s 
combined success as a whole must reach or exceed it.
THREE OR FEWER
GOALS ACHIEVED
RESULT
FOUR
FIVE
SIX
SEVEN
FAILURE
SEAT-OF-YOUR-PANTS SUCCESS
IMPRESSIVE SUCCESS
RESOUNDING SUCCESS
ASTONISHING SUCCESS