Introduction
It was an era of discovery, an era of
possibility. Brave explorers set out in tall
ships to seek the unknown. Some
returned famous and wealthy, bearing
exotic gifts and speaking of wild and
amazing discoveries. Others are lost to
obscurity, their explorations unrecorded,
their discoveries unknown. Come to this
era of adventure. Come to the era of
Entdecker!
As bold explorers, the players must
advance into unknown waters. New
islands will be discovered, and whoever
explores these islands with scouts may
find valuable jungle plants. The winner of
Entdecker will be the player who earns
the most Discovery Points through the
exploration of islands and the discovery
of exotic jungle plants.
Getting Started
There are two ways to learn how to play
Entdecker. If you are playing this game for
the first time you may:
Follow the steps in Professor Easy's
Introduction to Entdecker. This pamphlet is
designed to guide you through your first
game and teach you all of the rules you
need to start playing. Then, if you have
any questions after completing Professor
Easy, you may refer to these rules for
more explanation.
OR
Read these rules before your first game.
When you play, you can refer to pages
25 and 26 in the Professor Easy
pamphlet. These pages explain the steps
each player takes during his turn.
Game 
Components:
4 Settlements
8 Forts
67 Scouts
1 Special Die
1 Cloth Bag
1 Game Board
1 Professor Easy’s –
Introduction to Entdecker
7 Native Huts
1 Explorer’s Ship
180 Discovery Tiles
Gold Coins in values
of 1 and 5
9 Produce Tokens
Peanut
Cocoa
Pineapple
Tomato
Tobacco
India Rubber
Bean
Potato
Corn

Discovery Tiles
The Discovery Tiles show the islands and seas of the New
World, which the players will be exploring. Many tiles
show parts of one or more islands, while other tiles show
only open water, waiting to be crossed. A few of these tiles
have question marks on the back. These are potentially
rewarding, but also potentially dangerous, events that players may
encounter during the game. Discovery Tiles will be played into the
Undiscovered Territory as this area is explored. 
NOTE: Some Discovery Tiles have letters printed on the back side. These
letters are used to guide players through the Professor Easy introductory
game. If you are not using Professor Easy, these letters have no affect on
play and should be ignored.
Setting Up the Game
Place a native hut 
at the end of each 
of the Jungle Paths.
Place all nine of 
the Produce Tokens 
in the cloth bag.
Each player 
receives 7 gold pieces for his starting capital. The remaining gold
pieces, the special die, and the Explorer's ship are placed to
the side within reach.
Divide the Discovery Tiles by type: 
Tiles with blue backs (with or without question marks) should be mixed
together thoroughly and then split into 6 roughly equal stacks. It does
not matter if there are
question mark tiles on the
top of the stacks or not.
These stacks of Discovery
Tiles are called "Hidden Stacks"
Tiles with numbered backs are sorted by number. Each number forms a
different stack. These stacks are turned face up, and are called "Open
Stacks." Players may examine the Open Stacks at any time. The tiles
with the illustration of
the waterfall and either
"+5" or "+10" should
be set aside. They are
not used during play.
(See "Setting up the
game scenario", in
section 3.)
Sort the Playing Pieces:
Sort the Playing Pieces by color and distribute them to the players:
If there are 2 players, then one takes the red pieces, and the other takes
the white pieces. Each player gets 20 scouts, 
2 forts, and 1 settlement.
If there are 3 players, then the red, white, and
yellow pieces are used. Each player gets 
15 scouts, 2 forts, and 1 settlement.
If there are 4 players, then all four colors are
used. Each player gets 12 scouts, 2 forts, and 
1 settlement.
Each player takes one of their scouts and
places it on the zero space of the Sea Serpent.
This scout will be used to track the player's
Discovery Points.
Game Rules
This section contains the Game Rules for Entdecker.
Before you Play
Before you can play Entdecker you will need to carefully remove the
game pieces from the cardboard frames. Remove all of the Discovery
Tiles, the two parts of each native hut, the gold coins, and the Produce
Tokens. 
You will also need to assemble the native huts. Each hut has two parts:
the interior of the hut, showing a native wiseman, and the roof of the
hut, which appears to be made of straw. The interior
of the hut has two slots, and the roof has two tabs. 
First (1), carefully bend down the two tabs on
the hut roof. Then (2), slip the tabs into the
slots on the interior piece. The huts will be
used to hide the Produce Tokens so no player
will be able to see their value once they are
placed inside.
The Game Board
The game board is divided into four areas:
1–Undiscovered Territory: This is the area where the players will
explore, seeking new islands to settle and scout.
2–Edge Spaces: These spaces are known at the beginning of the game.
From these areas new journeys into the Undiscovered Territory will
begin.
3–Jungles: These seven paths lead to native huts where the treasures of
the new world may be discovered by the most adventurous and
persistent of scouts.
4–The Sea Serpent: Players track their Discovery Points along the length
of this frightening beast. These points may be earned by exploring
new islands or discovering exotic produce.
Produce Tokens
The treasures of the New World are represented by nine
Produce Tokens. Each token shows a valuable and exotic
plant, unknown to the world until the players find them in
the jungle. Each token has a point value: 5, 10, or 15. Before
the game, all nine tokens will be mixed in the cloth bag.
During the game, players will draw these tokens out of the
bag and place them in the native huts. Since there are only
seven huts, some of the Produce Tokens will not be used.
Players will never know for sure which Produce Tokens will
be in the game!
1.
2.
Scout
Fort
Settlement
Sea Serpent
Edge Spaces
Jungles

Setting Up the Game Scenario
For your first game, we suggest you use this setup:
7 Sea tiles are taken from the Open Stacks. Also, two of the 5 point
bonus tiles and one 10-point bonus tile (Bonus tiles have a picture of a
waterfall on them and say "+5" or "+10"). Lay out the tiles on the
board as shown in the illustration. 
After your first game, you can continue to play this scenario, or you can
choose a different setup. See section 12 for examples of different setups.
Turn Overview
• The youngest player will begin the game as the first explorer.
• During your turn, you will use the Explorer's ship (all players use the
same ship) and make a journey into the Undiscovered Territory. If
land is found during your trip, you may place a scout, fort, or
settlement there. During your turn, you may complete the exploration
of one or more islands. These islands will score points for everyone
who has successfully explored the island by placing units on it.
• After you complete your journey, the next player clockwise will begin
his turn by taking the Explorer's ship.
• As soon as every space in the Undiscovered Territory has been covered
with a Discovery Tile, the game ends.
Turn Sequence
You must follow this sequence during your turn:
1. Roll for Gold Income
Only roll for income if you have less than 4 gold pieces.
2. Select a Starting Space
Determine where you want to begin your journey for the turn.
3. Pay Starting Expenses
Often you can start for free.
4. Announce How Many Tiles You Will Explore
You must pay for each tile. The more you buy, the more likely 
you are to discover something.
5. Explore
Begin your journey and venture into the Unexplored Territory.
6. Place a Unit (optional)
If you discover land, you may place a scout, fort, or settlement there.
7. Cover Any Surrounded Spaces
Fill any gaps completely surrounded by tiles.
8. Score Any Explored Islands
The Phases of the Turn
This section details each of the phases in a player’s turn.
1. Roll for Gold Income
If you have fewer than 4 gold pieces at the beginning of your turn, you
must produce gold for all players. 
Roll the Special Die. If the roll results in a number, you receive that
many gold pieces. All the other players receive that many gold pieces
plus 1. So, for example, if you roll a 3, you get 3 gold pieces, and every
other player gets 4.
If the roll results in the ship's wheel, then you may choose
how much gold to produce. You must choose to take 2, 3, 4,
5, or 6 gold pieces. Every other player gets that many gold
pieces plus 1. 
Example: If you roll the ship's wheel and decide to take 6 gold, 
you get 6 gold pieces and every other player gets 7.
2. Select a Starting Space
Take the Explorer's ship and place it on a space that is adjacent to an
unexplored space. You may select any Edge Space or a previously
discovered tile. The space you select must meet these conditions:
• The starting space must have at least one sea edge that borders an
unexplored space.
• If the starting space is on a previously discovered tile, then you must
be able to trace a path from this tile to one of the Edge Spaces. This
path must follow the white lines and cannot be broken.
A: The ship cannot begin
here because there is no
unexplored space 
adjacent to it.
B. The ship cannot begin
here because there is
only land between it and
the unexplored spaces.
C. The ship cannot begin
here because there is no
path (white lines) to an
Edge Space.
D. The ship may begin
here, as there are 2
unexplored spaces and a
path leading to an Edge
Space.
E. The ship may begin
here, as this is an Edge
Space and it is adjacent
to an unexplored space.
Each player places a scout on the zero space of the sea serpent.

3. Pay Starting Expenses
Depending on where you start your journey, you may have to pay
Starting Expenses. There are two reasons why you might have to pay:
A. Distant Edge Spaces
Some of the Edge Spaces show one or two gold coins. Since these
spaces are farther away from the known world, additional expenses
must be paid if you are going to begin your trip there. If you choose one
of these spaces as your starting point, or if the white path you trace
back from your starting point ends at one of these Edge Spaces, then
you must pay a number of gold coins equal to the number shown on the
space. (Note that the player may choose any white path that reaches
any edge. He does not have to take the shortest path. You only have to
pay for a Distant Edge Space if you cannot trace any path to a free 
Edge Space.)
B. Tolls
Settlements and Forts belonging to other players can charge a toll if the
Explorer's ship passes by them. If you select a starting point that is on a
tile with a settlement or fort belonging to another player, you must pay
them toll. Also, if the path you trace back to an Edge Space has
settlements or forts along it, you must pay toll to each of them. The toll
is 2 gold pieces for each settlement or fort. These 2 gold pieces are paid
directly to the owner of the settlement or fort, not to the bank.
It is the purple player's
turn. If he starts on space
A, he must pay 1 gold to
the bank since the only
white path he can trace 
is to an Edge Space
showing 1 gold coin.
Then, he must also pay 
2 gold pieces to the red
player and 2 gold pieces
to the yellow player since
they both own forts along 
that path.
If he chooses to start on
space B, he would have
to pay 2 gold pieces to
the white player because
white owns a fort on the
starting tile.
If he chooses to start on space C, he owes no starting expenses since he can
trace a path back to a free Edge Space and there are no forts or settlements
along his route.
4. Announce How Many Tiles You Will Explore
Before you begin your journey, you must declare the number of tiles you
wish to draw that turn. You may later decide to draw fewer tiles, but
you may never draw more than you declare. Also, you must declare
whether the tiles you draw will come from the Open Stacks or the
Hidden Stacks. You may never draw tiles from both Open and Hidden
stacks during the same turn.
After you declare how many tiles you will draw, you must pay for them.
Each tile you intend to draw from Hidden Stacks costs you 1 gold piece.
Each tile you intend to draw from Open Stacks costs you 4 gold pieces.
You must pay these costs up front.
Example 1: A player announces that he intends to draw 4 tiles from the
Hidden Stacks. He pays 4 gold pieces. During his turn he may draw no more
than 4 tiles.
Example 2: A player announces that he intends to draw 2 tiles from the Open
Stacks. He must pay 8 gold pieces. During his turn he may draw 2 tiles from
any of the open stacks. These tiles could come from the same or different
stacks.
Important: Each turn, you must pay for and draw at least 1 tile and
attempt to make a journey into unexplored territory. Only if you can
prove that it is impossible for you to pay for this 1 tile (because of
Starting Expenses) can you cancel your journey and do nothing else for
the turn. If there is any available starting space that you can afford, then
you must make a journey. You may not choose to pass your turn if any
such starting space is available.
5. Explore
After paying any expenses for exploration, you may begin your journey
for the turn. The exploration of each tile is broken into 4 segments:
A. Draw A Tile
Draw the top tile from any stack, based on your declaration in step 4. If
you are drawing from Hidden Stacks, you may choose any of the Hidden
Stacks to draw from. If any of the top tiles have a question mark, you
may choose to draw the event, or you may try to avoid the event by
drawing a tile without a question mark, if one is available. Events are
described in section 11.
You must draw tiles one at a time. You are not allowed to draw all of the
tiles that you paid for at once and then play them in any order you
choose. Instead, the sequence of steps must be performed for each tile,
one after the other.
B. Place the Tile on an undiscovered space next to the
space where the Explorer's ship is located.
First, check if the tile can be played:
• One of the sea edges of the new tile must be placed next to a sea edge
of the tile where the Explorer ship is located.
• All other sides of the tile must match the bordering sides of any
previously played tiles that happen to be adjacent to the new tile.
Land must always line up with land and sea must always connect to
sea.
The tile may be turned in any direction as long as the above rules are
met. The player who is playing the tile chooses which direction the tile
will be played.
Edges of the new tile that are adjacent to other
unexplored spaces can be either land edges or
sea edges.
Example: The tile in position A is placed incorrectly
because a land edge borders the sea of the Edge Space
(all Edge Spaces are sea edges). The tile in position B
is placed correctly, since all sides that border
previously placed tiles match.
It is possible that the drawn tile cannot be played
no matter the direction that the tile is turned.
If the tile cannot be played, then it must be
discarded. If the tile can be played, then it must
be played. You may not choose to discard a tile if
it can be played. Discarded tiles are not replaced,
nor is a refund paid for the exploration expenses
paid for that tile.
Note: If an event tile is drawn, and it cannot be
placed on the board, than the event does not take
place. The tile is discarded.

C. Move the Ship
Once a new tile is placed, the Explorer's Ship must be moved onto that
tile. That tile is now explored. The ship must be moved even if it means
that you are now moving in a direction that you did not want to go!
Example: The player wants to travel towards
space A and draws this tile. Unfortunately, the
tile cannot be placed in space A, no matter
which direction it is turned. The tile also
cannot be made to fit in space B. But, the tile
can be placed in space C. Since there is a legal
play for the tile, it must be played and the ship
must be moved to the new tile.
If the tile just drawn could not be played,
and had to be discarded, the ship does not
move. Instead, skip this step and continue to step D.
D. End the Exploration or Continue
After placing the tile, the player must determine if he can continue his
exploration or if he must stop. He must stop if:
• He has no more tiles available to draw this turn (because he has
already drawn all he paid for)
• The Explorer's ship has reached a dead end (any tile that has no sea
edges next to unexplored spaces)
• The player chooses to place a unit on the land portion of the tile the
ship just moved to. (See phase 6: Place a Unit.)
If the ship finds a dead end,
your journey is finished for
this turn. Other tiles that
were announced but not yet
drawn are lost. You do not
draw these tiles, nor do you
get refunded the gold that
was paid for them. It is the
risk of exploration that
sometimes you pay for
many tiles but get to place only one of them.
Example: A player announces that he will draw 3 tiles from the Hidden Stacks
and pays 3 gold. He starts at tile A and draws his first Tile (B). It may be
played, so he must do so. Unfortunately, it has no sea edges adjacent to
unexplored territory so he must end his journey for the turn. The other two tiles
he paid for are not drawn, and he gets no gold back.
The player is, however, still allowed to place a unit
on the tile that he just explored.
If you are able to continue your voyage, then
repeat steps A through D for the next tile.
6. Place a Unit
When you explore a new tile, you may choose to place a unit there if
there is any land on the tile. An all-sea tile may never have a unit placed
on it. If you choose to build a unit, your journey for the turn ends
immediately, even if you still had tiles left to draw (see 5. Explore). The
unit may only be built on the last discovered tile. (Note that this is not
necessarily the last drawn tile. If the last drawn tile has no legal
placement, a unit may still be placed on the last discovered tile.)
You may not place a unit on the starting space of your journey, as that
tile was not explored during this turn's journey.
You may only place one unit per turn. When you place the unit, you
must pay its gold piece cost. This cost is different for each type of unit:
Settlement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6 gold pieces
Fort . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3 gold pieces
Scout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1 gold piece
When you choose to place a piece on a tile that shows two
islands, you may only place a unit on one of those islands. You
must choose which island to build on when you place the unit.
You may not move the unit to the other island later.
You may not choose to return to a tile later and place a unit
there. Once you place a second (or third, etc.) tile, you lose the
opportunity to place a unit on tiles placed earlier in the turn.
Example 1: The player has announced that he will draw 3 tiles and
pays for them. He positions the first two tiles and moves the ship each
time. The last tile is an open sea tile (B). He has missed the chance to
put down a unit because he cannot build on an open sea tile and he
may not return to the earlier tiles to place a unit there.
Example 2: The white player pays for 3 tiles. He starts from Tile A
and draws his first tile (B). He places the tile and moves the ship. Then
he draws his second tile (C) and places it so that it fits.
Again, he moves the ship. He could choose to draw a third
tile. However, he instead decides to build a fort on tile C so
that he will have the most valuable unit on the island.
Because he built a unit, his journey for the turn ends. The
third tile is forfeited, and he does not get the gold piece back.
Removal of Units
Settlements and forts, once placed, may not be moved or removed from the
board until the island they were built on is completely explored. When the
island is explored and scored the settlements and forts are returned to their
controlling player, who may use them again on other islands. 
Scouts are normally moved to the Jungle Paths when the island is completed.
However, if you have no scouts in your supply, and you find that you need
one during your turn, you may choose to remove one of your scouts from the
board. The scout you remove could come from one of the Jungle Paths, or
from a tile on the board. You may only remove a scout if you have none
available in your supply, and you would be able to place a scout if you had
one (i.e. it is your turn, you have the money to pay for it, etc.).
7. Cover Any Surrounded Spaces
If a single, unexplored space is surrounded on all four sides with explored
tiles, than that tile is discovered at the end of the turn. It does not matter if
the adjacent tiles are Edge Spaces or other Discovery Tiles. When a space is
surrounded, there will only be one type of tile that can fit in that unexplored
space. One of these matching tiles must be taken from the Open Stacks and
used to fill that space.
Similarly, any number of spaces completely surrounded by land is discovered.
All of those spaces are filled with land-only tiles from the Open Stacks. 
Note: Do not use the bonus waterfall tiles 
to fill these spaces!
No units can be placed on tiles discovered 
in this way.
Example: Player Red has discovered 2 spaces
and moved his ship. After placing his scout, his
journey for the turn is complete. Now, he must fill
any surrounded spaces. Space A is filled with the
matching tile from an Open Stack because it is
surrounded by explored areas on all four sides.
Also, the area B is completely surrounded by
land, so all of those spaces must be filled with
land-only tiles. As a result of this filling, there are
now 2 completely explored islands ready to score.
8. Score Any Completed Islands
At the end of the turn, any islands that are now completely explored score
points for players who have built units on them. It is possible for two or more
islands to be explored on the same turn, and they are all scored. The player
whose turn it is can decide which order to score the islands he discovered.

Scouts and Jungle Paths
Each player who had scouts on the island will take
turns placing them on the jungle paths. Starting with
the player whose turn it is, and continuing clockwise,
each player takes one of his scouts from the island and
places it on any of the seven Jungle Paths. He
must place it in the first empty space closest to
the native hut for that jungle path. If a player
does not have any scouts on the island, he is
skipped and the next player who does have a scout on
the island places his scout next. If only one player
has scouts left on the island, he may place all of
them on the jungle paths at once. Scouts do not have
to be placed on the same path. Each scout may be
placed on any path. The owner of the scout always
chooses which path to place his scout on.
Native Discovery
If you place your scout on one of the
spaces with a large black dot (the first
space in each jungle path) then you have
discovered a new native tribe! You must immediately draw one of the
Produce Tokens from the cloth bag and examine it. Be careful that other
players cannot see the token! Instead, secretly place the token inside the
native hut that is on that path.
If you place your scout on one of the spaces with the Eye, then you are
allowed to examine the Produce Token hidden in the native hut attached
to that jungle path. Again, be careful that other players cannot see the
token!
(Scoring Points) This island is worth 17
points (12 tiles plus 5 points for the waterfall).
Yellow earns 17 points, White earns 9, 
Red earns 5, and Purple earns 3 points. 
After the players have recorded their points,
they remove their forts and settlements 
and return them to their supply.
(Placing Scouts) Now, each player in turn
will place his scouts on the jungle paths. Since
it is white's turn, he places his scout first. The
scouts must be placed on the empty space
closest to the huts. After white, purple places
his scout, and then red places
a scout. Yellow has no scouts,
so he does not get to place
one. Now it is white's turn to
place his other scout. Purple is
skipped since all of his scouts have
been placed, so red places his last
scout. 
(Examining Produce Tokens) Since
purple and white both placed scouts
in the dot space of their paths, they
get to draw Produce Tokens from
the cloth bag, examine them, and
place them in the native huts (where
Bob the Native Wiseman waits to
protect them). Since red placed a
scout on the Eye space of one path,
he may examine the Produce Token
in the hut that is part of that path.
Scoring Islands
The value of an island is equal to the number of tiles used to build the
island. If the island includes one of the bonus waterfall tiles, than the
value of the waterfall (5 or 10) is added to
this value. In the illustration to the right, 
the island has a value of 9 points.
After determining the value of the island,
players must also determine who has the
strongest presence on the island. This player
is the "Main Discoverer" of the island and
will score the most points. Whichever player
has the most valuable unit on the island will
be the Main Discoverer. It does not matter if
the total value of other players' units is more.
A Fort is more valuable than any number of
scouts. A settlement is more valuable than
any number of scouts or forts. So, if any
player has built a settlement on the island, he
is the Main Discoverer. If there are no
settlements, then the player with the most
forts is the Main Discoverer. If there are no forts or settlements, then the
player with the most scouts wins the honor.
If there is a tie, such as when two players both have settlements on the
island, then the next most valuable type of unit will determine who wins
the tie. If both players have exactly the same units on the island, then
they are both Main Discoverers.
Move the Scouts on the Sea Serpent
The Main Discover of the island scores a number of Discovery Points
equal to the value of the island. Then, the player with the second best
units on the island scores half this number of Discovery Points. Then the
third best receives half again as many points. (One quarter of the full
value of the island.) If all four players are on the island, than the fourth
player receives half again (one eighth) as many points. In all cases, if
the points are odd, then round up for the next player. Each player moves
his marker on the sea serpent a number of spaces equal to the points he
has scored for the island.
If there are two players tied for position on the island, such as if there
are two Main Discoverers, then they both score the full points for their
place. The next player in line receives half this score.
If a player gains more than 50 points, he should return his piece to the 0
space and continue counting his score. His score is now 50 plus the
position of his scoring marker.
Example: The yellow player has completely
explored this island. To end his exploration
journey, he chooses to build a settlement. Yellow
is now the Main Discoverer of the island because
no other player has a settlement there. He scores
the full value of the island, which is 9. The red
and the white players both have equally valuable
units (1 fort and 1 scout each) and they are the
second discoverers of the island. They each
receive half the number of points that yellow did,
which is 5 (9 ÷ 2 = 4.5 rounded up to 5). The
purple player also has a presence on the island,
making him the third discoverer. He receives half
as many points as red and white, which is 3.
Units Return To Reserves
After the island is completely scored, the players must take their units
off the island. All forts and settlements are returned to the player's
reserves for use on future turns. Scouts are not returned to supply.
Instead, the scouts will be used to explore the Jungle Paths in pursuit of
the Produce Tokens.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
First Empty
Space
Path
Eye Space
Space With
Black Dot

The End of the Game
The game ends when all of the Undiscovered Territory is filled with
Discovery Tiles. The current player when this occurs finishes his turn
normally. Any islands completed that turn are scored. After the last turn
is finished, the jungle paths must be scored.
Scoring Scouts
All of the Produce Tokens are taken out of their huts so all players can
see them. Each Token will be worth 5, 10, or 15 Discovery Points. The
number shown on the token indicates its value. The player with the
most scouts on the jungle path scores the points for the Produce Token
that was assigned to that path. If there is a tie for the most scouts, then
whichever of the tied players controls the scout closest to the hut gets
the points.
Example: The red and purple
players both have an equal number
of scouts on this jungle path. The
purple player has a scout closer to
the hut than any of the red scouts.
The purple player therefore wins the
Produce Token and gets to add 10 points to his score. Both the red and the
white players score nothing for this jungle path.
The Winner of the Game
After all seven jungle paths have been scored; the player with the most
Discovery Points is the winner of the game! In the case of a tie for the
most points, the winner is the tied player with the most gold.
If the Tile Stacks are Depleted
If during the game a Hidden Tile Stack is depleted, then players must
choose their Hidden tile draws from the remaining stacks. It is possible,
though unlikely, that all six stacks will be used up. If this occurs, take all
of the discarded tiles, mix them, and form 2 new Hidden Stacks.
If a player needs an Open tile, and the matching stack is depleted, then
he may search through the discarded tiles for the needed tile. If the
correct tile is not among the discarded tiles, then the player may search
the Hidden Stacks for the needed tile. After Searching through the
Hidden Stacks, the tiles must all be mixed again and new stacks formed.
The Events
The tiles with the question mark on the back are all event tiles. When
the tile is played (not when it is drawn) the event takes place
immediately. The event tile is played like any normal tile, and it must be
played on the board if it fits. After the player moves his ship onto the
event tile, the event takes affect. If the event tile is discarded (because it
could not be played on the board) then it has no effect.
The Event tiles and their effects are:
Gold Mine (6 in the game): the player who explores this tile takes 
3 gold pieces from the bank.
Pirate (5 in the game): the player who explores this tile loses half of
his gold (round down) to the bank.
Friendly Natives (6 in the game): the player who explores this tile
may immediately take one of his scouts from his reserve and place it
on any jungle path for free. If he has no scouts in his reserve, then
he may take one from any jungle path, or from the board, and place
it on the jungle path of his choice.
Storms (5 in the game): the player who explores this tile must
immediately end his turn. He may not place any additional
Discovery Tiles this turn, nor may he choose to place any units. 
If the storm does complete an island, then the island is scored
normally.
Variations
The Top Scout Variant By Fritz Gruber
Advanced players may wish to use this variation. In order to play this
variant; you must first mark all of the scouts with a permanent pen. The
scouts should be numbered in sequence 1 through 20 (for white and
red, 1-15 for yellow and 1-12 for purple). Before the game, each player
should write down two numbers on a secret sheet of paper and hide it
under the game board. These two numbers indicate which two scouts
are his "Top Scouts". When the game ends, and the jungle paths are
being scored, the Top Scouts each count double for determining who
controls the jungle path and earns the Produce Token points.
Board Setup Scenarios
Before you begin a new game, you may wish to vary the board setup
using one of the following suggestions. Of course, you may choose to
make up your own variations!
Variation 1: The
is divided into 2 areas.
The islands of both
areas cannot be joined
together across the
divide. The bonus tiles
form 2 attractive
targets for exploration.
Variation 2: The
is divided horizontally.
The bonus tiles form 4
different goals to focus
discovery.
Variation 3: The
is divided into 3 areas.
The islands in these
three areas cannot be
joined together. This
variation tends to favor
very small islands, and
the bonus tiles form
the primary objectives
of exploration.

Tips and Suggestions By Fritz Gruber
Here are some suggestions on strategy for the game that you might
consider:
Buying Hidden Tiles
In theory a player could spend all of his money on buying Discovery
Tiles. This does not, however, automatically guarantee that they will
receive a lot of points for many reasons:
1. A player who buys six Discovery Tiles by using all of their gold
pieces, for example, will undoubtedly leave himself with no gold with
which to buy units.
2. The player's turn ends immediately as soon as he places a unit on a
Discovery Tile. It is in his advantage to put down as many strong
units as he can on a lucrative island. This is best done by
undertaking several smaller journeys.
3. A player that has used a lot of gold to buy tiles risks that - in some
cases - that they may immediately find a tile that is a dead end with
their first draw. The remaining tiles they paid for would then be
forfeited since you cannot proceed from a dead end.
On the other hand:
1. Now and then it can be profitable to undertake a longer discovery
trip. To buy, for example, many discovery tiles. This is especially true
if one starts from a partially discovered island on which one still has
the only unit! This single unit will score the only points for the island
if the player is able to complete the exploration. Therefore, one might
want to buy enough tiles to maybe complete the island if the right
tiles come up.
2. Buying many discovery tiles can even be useful if one requires a
specific type of tile to finish an island. Since one must reckon with
the possibility that they won't find the right tile with the first or
second draw, this is a way to maximize their chances: buy three to
find the specific one you need. Anyone who is willing to buy four
such tiles would be much better off buying one tile from an Open
Stack, which which is guarenteed to be the right tile.
Buying Open Tiles
This is expensive! Purchase of an Open Discovery Tile is only effective if
a more direct, certain success can be achieved. For example, completing
a valuable island.
Buying Event Tiles
Tiles with question marks are for the explorer with a lot of nerve. The
chance of getting something good or finding a full-blown disaster when
taking a question mark tiles stands close to 50-50. Whoever is not a
notorious gambler will only dare take a question mark tile if a negative
event won't hurt hem too severely. For example, if someone has only a
little gold, then a pirate tile would not bother him too much.
Clever Tactics when Placing Discovery Tiles
Experienced explorers will use the rule about filling in those surrounded
spaces to their advantage. When a tile is placed so that an undiscovered
space needs to be filled, the player should know which tile will be
placed in the surrounded space.
Placing Units
With the exception of the scouts, a constant lack of available units,
namely the forts and settlements, tends to be the norm. Since each
player is given only two forts and one settlement, he must judge well
where one of these stronger units should be played. A settlement, for
example, will stay where it is placed until the island is completed. The
first player who gets back his settlement is usually the first one who
plays it again. Crafty explorers rarely try to complete an island where an
opponent's stronger pieces stand. The longer one can keep other
player's units tied up on an incomplete island, the easier they can play
the poker game around the other islands.
Place Units Deliberately to Cause Extra Expenses for Others
An explorer should place units, especially forts and settlements,
consciously in positions from which other players will want to start their
journeys. If someone wants to go the same direction as you, then they
may well have to pay you for it. This aspect of the game is especially
important if an explorer is trying to go for one of the large bonus tiles.
Then you want to act as a stepping stone and force them to pay you a
toll.
The Double Role of Scouts
Unlike forts and settlements, which only have one purpose, scouts
placed on an island have two different roles. Admittedly they also
contribute their part in the contest for control of the islands, but they
scouts also possess the larger strategic value of securing the most
valuable Produce Tokens in the jungle. Especially early in the game, the
explorers will be striving to place as many scouts as possible first in line
in front of the native huts, to gain a head start on the knowledge about
the value of the jungle resources. Whoever knows in which native hut
the most valuable resources lie will be inclined to bring as many scouts
into the game as possible in order to help secure the most valuable
resources.
Rome Wasn’t Built in a Day
The strategies of a successful explorer differ little from this general
maxim: One cannot be the best, most beautiful, and most successful all
the time and in every location, but it is worthwhile, where one won't be
king, to at least be a little involved and to collect a few points.
The Author
Klaus Teuber is one of the most successful and most versatile game
designers. His games have been voted "Spiel des Jahres" four times. 
Four times also his games have won first place in the "Deutschen
Spielepreis". His highly successful game "The Settlers of Catan" series is
a modern classic.
The author would like to thank: 
Claudia, Benni, Guido, Fritz, and Claudia B. 
Illustrations: Andreas Steiner
Graphics: Pohl & Rick
English Translation: Anthony M. Rubbo
Copyright © 2001 Mayfair Games, Inc. “Entdecker” is a trademark of Mayfair
Games and Klaus Teuber. All rights reserved. 
Made in Germany in cooperation with Kosmos. 
Mayfair Games Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA, 
email: mayfair@mayfairgames.com, 
web address: www.mayfairgames.com
®