Entropy Game Rules
A two-player strategy game based on the eternal conflict in the universe between order and 
chaos.
Components:
Square board divided into 7x7 cells (5X5 is possible as well).
49 counters: 7 each of 7 different colours (or 5x5 colours, when playing on a 5x5 field)
Small bag
The Game
One player is Order, the other Chaos. Order is trying to make patterns vertically and 
horizontally. Chaos is trying to prevent this. A pattern is any sequence of counters that is 
identical if viewed from either direction (left to right/right to left or up to down/down to up). A 
pattern scores the number of counters in the pattern. All patterns within a pattern also score. 
For example: red-green-blue-green-red scores 5 and also 3 for green-blue-green; total: 8. 
Another example: red-green-red-green-red scores 5 plus 3x3 = 14. A further example: red-
red-red-red scores 4 + 2x3 + 3x2 = 16. All possible patterns are listed below.
Play
Chaos puts the counters in the bag. He draws them out unseen one at at a time and places 
them on any empty square. Each time Chaos places a counter, Order may slide any one 
counter on the board (inclusding the one just placed) vertically or horizontally over any 
number of vacant squares (exactly like a rook in chess). Only one counter may occupy a 
square. When the board is full every vertical and horizontal line is scored. The players then 
reverse roles and the player with the highest score is the winner.
Comment
The variety of play is almost infinite so that each game is different. An average score is about 
75; 100 is good, 50 is poor.
A good strategy for Order is to avoid holes into which Chaos can drop awkward colours. The 
ideal is to have no more than two vacant areas. Order achieves this by moving counters to the 
sides. As the game progresses, Order can calculate the odds of a particular colour coming out 
of the bag next.
Tournament rules, using a timing clock, have been perfected.
Here, for ease of checking, are the 30 possible scoring combinations. Distinct letters stand for 
distinct colours.