www.conceptualmathmedia.com 
 
 
 
 
 
copyright 2007, Conceptual Math Media, Inc. 
 
Brief Rules for Equate® 
 
Equate Hand 
 Players draw nine tiles from the bag that contains both numbers and operators. An equal symbol is always available and is 
the tenth tile in the hand. After making a play, the player draws tiles from the bag to replenish his hand. 
 
Main Objective 
 Using any number of the tiles in the hand, a player must form one true equality statement, horizontally across from left to 
right or vertically downward, by placing tiles on the board. The play must connect with a previous play; that is, at least one of 
the tiles in the equation must have a side that is adjacent to a previously played tile. The tiles that are played in one turn must 
be placed within one horizontal or vertical equation. Equations may NOT be extended to contain more than one equal symbol. 
However, an equation may be extended by placing tiles on one or both sides as long as the resulting equation is true and 
contains only one equal symbol. 
 
 Scoring 
 Players strive for a high score by taking advantage of both the individual symbol scores and the premium board positions. 
The individual symbol scores are located in the lower right-hand corner of the tiles. The premium board positions are labeled 
2S, 3S, 2E, and 3E, respectively on the board. The 2S position awards 2 times the individual symbol score, the 3S position 
awards 3 times the symbol score, the 2E position awards 2 times the entire equation score, and the 3E position awards 3 times 
the equation score. The individual symbol scores are computed first then apply the premium board position awards 2E and 
3E. Premium board position awards are received only once by the player who originally places the tile on that position. 
However, if you make an equation that contains tiles that are already on the board, you get to count those individual scores as 
part of your total score. Finally, if you play all nine of your number and operation tiles in one turn you receive 40 extra 
points. But remember, all tiles in one turn must be placed in one horizontal or vertical equation and equations cannot be 
extended to contain more than one equal symbol. 
 
Additional Rule Tidbits 
• Number tiles can be placed adjacent to one another to form other numbers. A 2 followed by a 3 creates 23. A 2 followed 
by 1
2 creates the mixed numeral 2 1
2 . The number, –2, followed by 4 creates the negative number, –24. A numeral 1 
followed by 52 creates 152 . Negative tiles and exponent tiles are included in the Equate Advanced Tile Set. 
• Equations are formed in a single vertical column or a horizontal row. Do not turn corners to read equations. Vertical 
equations, numbers, and expressions are read in a downward direction. 
• Players do not have to use all of the tiles in their hand; however if they do, they receive 40 additional points. To receive 
the extra 40 points a player does not need to play the equal symbol. 
• All the tiles in one turn must be placed within one horizontal or vertical equation. 
• Equations cannot be extended to contain more than one equal symbol. 
• A player may place tiles on one or both sides of an existing equation to form a new equation. The premium board position 
awards are received only once by the player that originally put them there. The player does receive the individual scores 
for all the tiles in the new equation, including the tiles that were already there and the new tiles. 
• Adjacent tiles running perpendicular to your equation must form either a complete numerical expression or an equation. 
You do not receive points for forming only a numerical expression. Examples of numerical expressions are 45, 4 + 3, and 
2 x 8 – 5. 
• The subtraction symbol is used only for subtracting and not for taking an opposite. The only negative symbols are those 
already placed on the tiles in front of numbers. Negative tiles are included in the Equate Advanced Tile Set. 
• Unnecessary 0 digits are not allowed. For example 05 cannot be used for 5. 
• When taking a turn, a player may choose to trade in any number of tiles from the hand for more tiles. This trade-in 
constitutes the player’s turn and a 0 score is recorded for that turn. 
• A player may choose to form only an expression. An expression is a combination of numbers and operators. It is just one 
side of an equation. The player gets a 0 score for forming an expression but it can be a way to get rid of tiles and is 
especially useful at the end of the game when a player is trying to be the first to run out of tiles which ends the game. 
 
Ending the Game 
The game ends when there are no more tiles in the draw pile of numbers and operations and one player uses the last of his 
tiles. The player that goes out adds to his score the total of all the individual scores that the other players are left holding. 
Also, each player left with tiles must subtract from his score the total of the tile scores he is left holding. 
 After there are no more tiles in the draw pile, it is possible that no player sees how to go out. In this case the game ends 
when each player passes once, successively. Each player subtracts from his score the total of the individual scores he is left 
holding. 
 If time is a factor the game can end at a specified time but be sure that all players have had the same number of turns. The 
player with the highest score at that time wins.