Introduction
I
t is a time of constant war and shifting loyalties in feudal 
Japan. Lords across the nation vie for control of three precious 
commodities: the loyalty of lesser lords, the land’s primary 
sources of rice, and the very religion of the people. Throughout it 
all, there is one constant: the samurai.
The year is 1336. The emperor’s attempt at regaining power 
through the Kenmu Restoration has failed. The royal family has 
lost all authority and has been relegated to nothing more than 
figureheads. The Ashikaga shogunate now holds power over Japan, 
but it is a tenuous thread at best. Across the country, powerful lords 
called daimyo have risen up and begun to claim dominion over 
the land and its resources. As these lords grow in power they 
draw samurai to their cause.
While the samurai are the necessary force needed to gain 
control of Japan, there are other assets the lords must consider 
in their conquest. The Buddhist priests hold sway over nobles 
and commoners alike, contributing culture and legitimacy to 
any ruler holding their favor. Rice has been Japan’s staple food 
stock for centuries; whoever controls it rules the population. 
Finally, a lord cannot hope to gain samurai to their cause 
without strategic military installations.
No one daimyo has ever managed to unify 
the samurai and, with them, Japan. As the 
rival lords appear ready to challenge 
Ashikaga, their samurai followers flock 
to new lords. Something innovative must 
be done to succeed where so many others 
have failed. Some new creative strategy 
must be devised.
The game of Samurai allows you to take 
the role of a daimyo just beginning ascent 
to power. Travel back to a Japan being torn 
asunder by warring clans. Prove you have the 
wisdom to garner the esteem of the samurai and 
you will unite a nation.

20 Gold Tiles
20 Purple Tiles
20 Red Tiles
20 Green Tiles
4 Player Screens
39 Plastic Caste Pieces
13 Rice
13 Buddhas
13 Castles
3 Leader Tokens
Game Overview
During a game of Samurai, players compete over the three societal castes of Japan: religion (represented by Buddha), commerce 
(represented by rice), and military (represented by a castle). Players place tiles on the game board to influence settlement spaces and 
capture the various caste pieces on those spaces. The player capturing the most pieces of a particular caste becomes the leader of 
that caste. At the end of the game, the player who is the leader of the most castes wins the game.
Game Components
80 Tiles
1 Game Board
Consisting of 5 Pieces

Spaces
There are three types of spaces on the game board:
• Settlement spaces are shaded tan and have 1, 2, 
or 3 building images printed on them.
• Land spaces are shaded tan and have no building 
images printed on them.
• Sea spaces are shaded blue.
Village spaces 
contain one 
orange 
building.
City spaces 
contain two 
gray buildings.
The Edo space 
contains three 
blue buildings.
Basic Setup
First-time players may choose to simplify setup by 
randomly selecting their starting hands and randomly 
distributing the caste pieces onto the settlement spaces 
on the game board. When distributing the caste pieces 
in this fashion be sure the Edo space has three pieces, 
each city space has two pieces, and no settlement 
space has more than one caste piece of the same type.
Setup
To set up a game of Samurai, follow these steps: 
1.	 Construct Game Board: Construct the game board based 
on the number of players as shown below.
2.	 Create Leader Disk: Place the three 
leader tokens near the game board and 
arrange them so they form a single disk. 
These tokens are used at the end of the 
game during scoring.
3.	 Create Supply: Create the supply based on the number 
of players. Take the plastic caste pieces listed below and 
place them near the game board. Return all remaining caste 
pieces to the game box; they are not used this game.
• 2 Players: 7 of each caste piece
• 3 Players: 10 of each caste piece
• 4 Players: 13 of each caste piece
4.	 Gather Tiles and Screens: Each player chooses a player 
color, gathers the 20 tiles and player screen of that color, 
and places them in his play area.
5.	 Draw Starting Hand: Each player secretly chooses five of his 
tiles and places them faceup behind his player screen. These 
tiles form his starting “hand” of tiles and remain hidden from 
the other players until they are placed on the game board.
6.	 Create Tile Stack: Each player mixes his remaining 15 tiles 
(the tiles not chosen as his starting hand) facedown and places 
them in a stack beside his player screen in view of all players.
Leader Disk
7.	 Populate Edo Space: Place one Buddha, one rice, and 
one castle piece on the Edo space.
8.	 Populate City Spaces: Starting with the youngest player 
and proceeding clockwise, players take turns placing one 
caste piece from the supply on a city space. City spaces 
cannot contain more than two caste pieces or more than 
one caste piece of the same type. Players proceed in this 
fashion until all city spaces have two caste pieces.
9.	 Populate Village Spaces: Continuing with the next 
player and proceeding clockwise, players take turns 
placing one caste piece from the supply on a village 
space. Village spaces cannot contain more than one 
caste piece. Players proceed in this fashion until all village 
spaces have one caste piece.
After all caste pieces from the supply are on the game board, 
players are ready to begin playing the game.
2-Player Game Board
4-Player Game Board
3-Player Game Board

Playing the Game
During a game, players take turns placing tiles on the game board 
and capturing caste pieces. When all caste pieces of one or more 
castes have been captured, the game ends, and players calculate 
their scores to determine the winner.
Turn Sequence
Starting with the youngest player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player takes a turn by following these steps:
1.	 Play Tile: The player chooses one tile from his hand and 
places it on an empty land or sea space (not settlement 
space) on the game board.
2.	 Check for Capture: If all land spaces adjacent to a 
settlement space contain tiles, that settlement’s caste pieces 
become captured (see “Resolving Captures” on page 6).
3.	 Refresh Hand: The player refreshes his hand by drawing tiles 
from the top of his stack and places them faceup behind his 
player screen until he has five tiles in his hand. If there are 
not enough tiles in a player’s stack to allow him to have five 
tiles in his hand, he draws as many tiles as possible.
After a player refreshes his hand, his turn ends, and the next 
player in clockwise order takes his turn.
Objective
The objective of Samurai is to be the leader of the most castes, 
which is achieved by capturing caste pieces on the board. To 
capture a caste piece, players must surround its settlement by 
placing tiles on all land spaces adjacent to that settlement. (Two 
spaces are considered adjacent if they share a border.)
Caste Pieces
There are three types of plastic caste pieces, one for each caste: 
Buddhas represent religion, rice represents commerce, and 
castles represent military. At the end of the game, the player 
who captured the most pieces of a particular caste becomes that 
caste’s leader (see “Scoring” on page 6). The player who is 
the leader of the most castes wins the game.
Castle Caste Piece 
(Military)
Buddha Caste Piece 
(Religion)
Rice Caste Piece 
(Commerce)
Tiles
There are three types of tiles: caste-specific tiles, wild 
tiles, and action tiles. Most tiles have a number on the 
right side. This number indicates the tile’s influence 
value, the amount of influence that the tile provides to 
all adjacent spaces. Influence values range from “0” 
to “4” and are used for capturing caste pieces (see 
“Resolving Captures” on page 6).
Caste-Specific Tiles 
A caste-specific tile has an image of a caste piece on its left side 
and provides its influence to one caste only. The image of the 
piece on that tile determines which caste it is used to capture. A 
Buddha tile influences the religion caste, a rice tile influences the 
commerce caste, and a castle tile influences the military caste.
Wild Tiles
Wild tiles have an illustration on their left side and provide their 
influence to all castes.
Samurai and ronin tiles provide influence to all adjacent 
settlements, regardless of which castes are present there. Ship 
tiles do the same; however, they can be placed only on empty 
sea spaces and are the only tile that can do so.
Influence 
Value
Buddha Tile 
(Religion)
Rice Tile 
(Commerce)
Castle Tile 
(Military)
Samurai Tile
Ronin Tile
Ship Tile 

Action Tiles
Action tiles grant special abilities when played. There are two 
types of action tiles: switch tiles and move tiles.
Switch Tile
Each player has one switch tile. This tile 
allows the player to exchange the position of 
two caste pieces on the game board. To use 
a switch tile, the player reveals it from behind 
his screen and switches the positions of any 
two caste pieces on the game board. A 
player cannot use a switch tile to cause two caste pieces of the 
same type to occupy the same settlement space. After switching 
the position of the two caste pieces, he returns the switch tile to 
the game box and continues his turn as normal. 
Move Tile
Each player has one move tile. This tile 
allows a player to reposition a tile that he has 
already placed on the game board during 
a previous turn. To use a move tile, a player 
takes one of his tiles that does not have a 
fast icon from the game board and places it 
on any other empty land space. Then, he places the move tile 
on the repositioned tile’s original space.
Fast Icon
Each player has five tiles that have a Japanese 
character. This character represents the fast icon. 
A player may play one tile and any number of fast 
tiles on his turn. A player may choose to play only 
fast tiles as his tile placement for the turn.
Switch Tile
The move tile is placed on the original 
space of the repositioned tile.
Move Tile
Fast Icon
Resolving Captures
After a player’s turn, if all land spaces adjacent to a settlement 
contain tiles, that settlement is surrounded and its caste pieces 
become captured. (The adjacent sea spaces do not need to, but 
may, contain ship tiles.) Each caste piece is captured at the end 
of the turn in which its settlement became surrounded.
To determine who captures a caste piece, each player adds up 
the influence values of his tiles that are both adjacent to the caste 
piece and have an image corresponding to the caste piece type 
in question (or a wild image). The player with the highest total 
influence captures the caste piece, taking it from the game board 
and placing it behind his player screen in a three or four-player 
game, or in front of his player screen in a two-player game. If two 
or more players are tied for the highest total influence, no player 
captures the caste piece. Instead, the caste piece is removed from 
the game board and placed near it in view of all players—that 
caste piece does not belong to any player.
When a surrounded settlement space contains two or more 
caste pieces, players calculate the influence for each caste piece 
individually in the order of the current player’s choice.
Winning the Game
The game ends at the end of any player’s turn in which either of 
the following two conditions are met:
• There are no remaining caste pieces of one or more castes 
on the game board.
• Any four caste pieces have been removed and placed near 
the game board (see “Resolving Captures” above).
When the game ends, players calculate their scores.
Scoring
When the game ends, each player reveals his captured caste 
pieces. If a player has more caste pieces of one caste than all 
other players, he claims that caste’s leader token. If two or more 
players are tied for the most caste pieces of a caste, that caste’s 
leader token is set aside unclaimed. After all leader tokens have 
been claimed or set aside, if one player claimed more leader 
tokens than any other player, he is the winner.
If two or more players have each claimed only one leader token, 
each of those players sets aside the caste pieces from his own 
leader token’s caste. Then, he counts the total number of caste 
pieces he has captured from the other two castes (those in 
which he does not have a leader token). The player with the 
most caste pieces from his other two castes is the winner. If there 
is a tie, the tied player with the most caste pieces from all castes 
(including those for which he has a leader token) is the winner. If 
there is still a tie, the tied players share the win.
In the rare case that no player has claimed a leader token, the 
player with the most captured caste pieces from all castes is the 
winner. If there is a tie, all tied players share the win.

Resolving Captures Example
During the green player’s turn, he places a 3-Buddha tile next to a settlement 
with a Buddha piece. All land spaces adjacent to this settlement contain tiles, so 
the settlement is surrounded and this caste piece will be captured.
To resolve the capture, each player adds up their neighboring religious 
influence. The red player’s 2-samurai tile provides 2 religious influence, while 
the green player’s 3-Buddha tile provides 3 religious influence. The green 
player has the most religious influence, so he captures the Buddha piece, 
placing it behind his player screen.
Next is the gold player’s turn. He places a 1-ronin tile 
(which has a fast icon) followed by a 4-Buddha tile, 
causing both adjacent settlements to become surrounded. 
First, the gold player chooses to resolve the capture of 
the Buddha piece on the settlement space to the right. 
He has a total of 5 religious influence provided from his 
4-Buddha tile and his 1-ronin tile. The red player has a 
total of 3 religious influence provided from her 2-samurai 
tile and her 1-ship tile. The gold player has the most 
religious influence, so he captures the Buddha piece.
Finally, players resolve the capture of the Buddha and rice 
pieces on the other settlement space to the left. With his 
1-ship tile and his 3-Buddha tile, the green player has a 
total of 4 religious influence. The gold player also has 
4 religious influence, as provided by his 4-Buddha tile. 
Since both the green and gold players have an equal 
amount of religious influence, the Buddha piece is not 
captured and is instead placed beside the board. With 
her 2-rice tile, the red player has the most commerce 
influence, so she captures the rice piece. The military 
influence from the purple player’s 2-castle tile is ignored 
because there are no castle pieces to capture.

Scoring Example
The green player has the most rice pieces so he receives the commerce leader token. The red player has the 
most Buddha pieces so she receives the religious leader token. Both the green player and the gold player are 
tied for the most castle pieces, so no player receives the military leader token. The green player and the red 
player are tied for the most total leader tokens (1 each), so they proceed to the next step of scoring, while the 
gold player is eliminated.
The green player ignores his rice pieces and counts his caste pieces from the other two castes, for a total of 
3. The red player ignores her Buddha pieces and counts her caste pieces from the other two castes, also for a 
total of 3. Since there is still no winner, all tied players continue to the tiebreaker.
The green player has 6 total caste pieces, while the red player has 7 total caste pieces; the red player 
wins the game.
Credits
Game Design: Reiner Knizia
Producer: Jason Walden
Technical Writing: Adam Baker
Editing and Proofreading: Autumn Collier 
and Richard A. Edwards
Graphic Design: Monica Skupa
Graphic Design Manager: Brian Schomburg
Cover Art: Dleoblack and Zach Graves
Board and Interior Art: Hannah Christenson
Art Direction: Andy Christensen
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
Plastics Sculpting: Jason Beaudoin and Gary Storkamp
Plastics Management: Jason Beaudoin
FFG Licensing Coordinator: Amanda Greenhart
Production Coordination: John Britton, Jason Glawe, 
and Johanna Whiting
Production Management: Megan Duehn and Simone Elliott
Board Game Manager: Steven Kimball
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Iain Adams, Ludwig Berger, Chris Bowyer, Gunthart 
von Chiari, Chris Dawe, David Farquhar, Jon Gilbert, Martin 
Higham, Ross Inglis, Kevin Jacklin, Tina and Georg, Chris 
Lawson, Alex Martell, Werner Mueller, Andreas and Karen 
Seyfarth, Jo Weigand, Clemens Wildemann, Hannes Wildner, 
and Dieter Hornung
© 2015 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. © Dr. Reiner Knizia 2015. No part of this 
product may be reproduced without specific permission. Samurai is trademark 
of Dr. Reiner Knizia. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are registered trademarks 
of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1995 West County 
Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may 
vary from those shown. Made in China. This product is not a toy. Not 
intended for use by persons 13 years of age or younger.