MATERIALS
	 	 30	guest figures 
 	
8	guest counters in the colours of the guest figures
 	 	
1	round counter for Hugo 
	 	
1	die
	 	
 1	Hugo figure
 	 	
1	game board (double-sided)
AIM AND IDEA OF THE GAME
The guests in the castle are having the time of their lifes. But when the clock strikes midnight, 
the cellar doors creak open and Hugo, the castle‘s ghost, makes his appearance. He glides up the 
cellar steps und moves onto the gallery. Now a great commotion is stirred when everybody tries 
to hide from Hugo in one of the castle‘s many rooms. A hectic chase for unoccupied hideouts 
begins.
Players try to bring their own guest figures to safety before Hugo can capture and banish 
them to the cellar steps. Each of your figures that Hugo captures will earn you spooky points. 
Players who manage to hide all of their guest figures in the castle’s rooms will escape with 
no more than a fright. The player with the fewest spooky points wins the game.
Note: The game comes with a double-sided game board. The side with the spooky trail is 
for playing with the new, even spookier “Hugo” rules. The other side of the game board 
shows the well-known variant of “Midnight Party”, the rules to which you will find on the 
last two pages of these instructions. 
By Wolfgang Kramer
Players:	
2–8
Ages:	
7 and up 	
Duration:	approx. 30 minutes
Game board 
“Midnight Party”
Game board “Hugo”

PREPARATION
The game board is placed on the table showing the side with the spooky trail. Hugo is put on 
the cellar door on the space in front of the “+10” space.
Now every player chooses his or her guest figures:
•	In a game with 2 players each players gets 6 figures in red or blue.
•	In a game with 3 players each players gets 5 figures in red, blue or turquoise.
•	In a game with 4 players each players gets 4 figures in red, blue, turquoise or yellow.
•	In a game with 5 players each players gets 3 figures in red, blue, turquoise, yellow or black.
•	In a game with 6-8 players each players gets 2 figures in red, blue, turquoise, yellow, 
black, green, white or purple.
Each player also gets a counter in the colour of his guest figures. The counters are placed 
on the starting space of the spooky trail on the space with the number “10”. The Hugo 
counter is placed on the time “23:45” of the game turn track. 
HOW TO PLAY
The Party Begins
Each player puts their guests on any free spaces around the gallery. The youngest player 
begins by placing one of his guests on any unoccupied space on the gallery. Then the next 
players, clockwise, each place one of their guests and so on until all guests have been 
placed on the gallery. At the start of the game only one guest per space is allowed.
Tip: Players should avoid placing their guests on one of the 10 spaces after the space with 
the arrow where Hugo will leave the cellar. Otherwise they run the risk of being caught 
by Hugo all to quickly.
Note: It is not allowed to place guests on the cellar steps.
Setup for 4 players
Setup for 4 players
Gallery
Cellar Steps
Spooky Trail
Game Turn Track

Rolling the Die and moving your Guests
The youngest player begins. The player whose turn it is rolls the die and moves his figure 
the number of spaces indicated. Then the player to his left goes next.
During the game more than one guest may end up on the same space together.
Note: You can only move your guests into the castle’s rooms when Hugo has left the cellar 
and moved onto the gallery.
Look out, Hugo is coming!
Hugo the ghost moves whenever a player rolls the Hugo 
symbol.
Hugo moves forward three spaces clockwise. First he moves up the cellar steps and then 
enters the gallery via the space with the arrow symbol. After that Hugo remains haunting 
the gallery for the rest of the game. A player who has rolled the Hugo symbol may not 
move any of his guest figures that turn.

Help, where can I hide?
As soon as Hugo enters the gallery via the arrow symbol, tension rises. The players now have 
to try and help their guest figures escape from Hugo before he can capture them. The castle 
has nine rooms in which the guests can hide and where Hugo cannot capture them. But a 
room may hold only one guest at any time. 
Guests can enter a room only via the space directly in front of its door. Each space on the 
gallery plus the room itself count toward the die roll. A guest does not need to enter a room 
with an exact roll (exception: rooms with a green coat of arms, see page 5). In this case, any 
unspent points expire and cannot be used for other guests.
Expelling: If you enter room by an exact roll you are allowed to expel a guest that is already in the 
room. The expelled guest is moved to the square directly in front of the room. The owner of that 
guest figure can “return the favour” by rolling a “1” on his turn and move back into the room.
Example: Barbara has rolled a “2”. With this roll she can move her red guest into the room 
with the fireplace and expel the guest of another player. Barbara moves her guest figure into 
the room with the fireplace and expels the other guest figure to the space directly in front 
that room.
Note: You cannot expel one of your own guest figures from a room.
Hugo captures a guest
When a player rolls the Hugo symbol Hugo has to be moved forward. If, on his way, Hugo 
passes or comes to stand on the same square with a guest, that guest is captured.
A guest that has been captured is sent to the cellar steps – i.e. on the next free step with 
the highest number. So the first guest to be sent to the cellar is put on the “+10” step. The 
next guest then is put on the “+9” step and so on. At the same time, the counter of that 
player is moved forward that same number of spaces on the spooky trail. More than one 
counter may occupy the same space on the spooky trail.

If more than one guest is standing on the same space of the gallery when Hugo captures 
them, they are also moved to the same space on the cellar steps.
If all spaces of the cellar steps are occupied, the next captured guest is put on the “+10” 
step with the other guest(s) already on that space. The player of the new captured guest 
receives 10 spooky points.
Rooms with Coats of Arms
If you move one of your guest figures into 
the “armory” where Hugo junior dwells, you 
receive one spooky point – move your counter 
on the spooky trail forward one space.
If you move one of your guests into the 
“ballroom” or the “banqueting hall”, you are 
lucky and can relax with some lovely music and 
a scrumptious meal – move your counter on 
the spooky trail backwards three spaces, but 
not beyond the “0” space.
Note: You need a direct roll to move a guest to the “ballroom” or the “banqueting hall”.
ballroom
ballroom
banqueting hall
banqueting hall
armory
armory

Rules for moving guest figures
Guest figures always have to be moved – you cannot choose to pass a turn. Guests always 
move forward (clockwise) on the gallery. But you can always decide to move one of your 
guests from a room or from the cellar steps onto the gallery.
You can rush by Hugo (overtake him). If, though, your guest comes to stand on the same 
space with Hugo, that guest is captured and sent to the cellar steps.
If all of a player’s guests have either taken refuge in a room and/or are standing on the 
cellar steps, he/she must move one of his/her guests from a room or up the cellar steps. 
If you have more than one guest figure on the cellar steps and want to leave the steps 
with one of them, you have to move your guest on the space with the highest number 
first. When leaving the cellar steps start counting spaces beginning with the space with 
the arrow symbol by the cellar door, no matter which step in the cellar your guest was 
standing on. 
Example: Peter has two guests on the 
cellar steps, one on the “+9” space, the 
other on the “+6” space. He has rolled a 
“2” and must move his guest standing on 
the “+9” space, starting the count with 
the arrow symbol space on the gallery.
 
Tip: If you roll a “4” or “5”, you can move your guest from the cellar steps straight to one 
of the first two rooms. You can also directly move from one room to another if your die 
roll allows it.
Hugo’s movement range – Game turn track
At the beginning of the game Hugo moves three spaces whenever the die shows his symbol. 
When he leaves the cellar and moves onto the gallery his counter is moved to “24:00” on the 
game turn track. Every time Hugo moves onto or over the space with the arrow symbol, his 
counter is moved to the next time indicated on the game turn track. The later the evening 
the faster Hugo moves on the gallery. 
Time	
23:45	
24:00	
1:00	
2:00	
3:00	
4:00	
5:00
Hugo moves	 3 spaces 3 spaces 	4 spaces 	5 spaces 	6 spaces 	7 spaces 	game ends
GAME END
Whenever Hugo moves onto or over the space with the arrow symbol, his counter is moved 
to the next time on the game turn track. When Hugo’s counter is moved to 5 o’clock, Hugo 
has haunted the castle enough for one night and the game ends immediately.
The game ends earlier than that if a player’s counter moves onto or over the “46” space 
of the spooky trail.
In both cases the player with the fewest spooky points wins the game, i.e. the player whose 
counter is lowest on the spooky trail.

Variant: “Midnight Party”
The variant “Midnight Party” is played to the rules of the earlier version of the game. The 
game is played on the side of the game board without the spooky trail. Hugo’s counter 
and the counters for each player remain in the box.
The Hugo figure is put on the “-10” space of the cellar steps. As before, each player chooses 
his guest figures. In addition you will now need a pen and paper. Now, let’s get spooked.
To celebrate a Midnight Party the game is played three times (three “spooky rounds”). The 
game is played with the following changes to the rules:
•	Hugo always moves three spaces. In a game with 7 or 8 players he only moves two 
spaces.
•	When a guest is move into a room, it remains there until the end of that spooky round. 
Guests cannot be expelled from a room.
•	Captured guests also remain on the cellar steps until the end of the spooky round.
•	If a player only has one guest left on the gallery, he does roll the die but can choose not 
to move his guest. If a player has no more guests left on the gallery, he still has to roll 
the die since he might still roll the Hugo symbol.
•	A spooky round is over, when either no guests are left on the gallery or when there are 
still guests on the gallery but all rooms are occupied. The guest still on the gallery at 
this point are moved to the “-2” cellar step.
•	A player receives spooky points corresponding to each of his guests on the cellar steps. 
Guests standing in rooms where Hugo junior is haunting (the “abandoned room” and 

the “armory”) receive one spooky point each. The guests in the “ballroom” and the 
“banqueting hall” each receive three lucky points. The points for each player are noted 
on a piece of paper.
•	After taking scores the next spooky round begins. All guests in the rooms are moved 
to the spaces directly in front of the respective rooms.
•	Then every player removes his guests from the cellar steps and puts them on gallery 
spaces of his choice, beginning with the guest on the “-10” space, then the guest on 
the “-9” space and so on. If there is more than one guest on a cellar step, the player 
who has more spooky points goes first.
•	Finally, Hugo is placed on the “-10” space of the cellar steps and the second spooky 
round begins. The player with the most spooky points rolls the die, the other players 
follow clockwise. 
•	After the third spooky round the midnight party ends. Once more scores are taken: 
The player with the fewest spooky points after the last round wins the midnight party.
Abrechnungsbeispiel
Version 1.1
© AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, D-63128 Dietzenbach, 2013
Sie haben ein Qualitätsprodukt gekauft. Sollten Sie dennoch Anlass zu einer 
Reklamation haben, wenden Sie sich bitte direkt an uns.
Haben Sie noch Fragen? Wir helfen Ihnen gerne:
AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH · Waldstraße 23-D5 · D-63128 Dietzenbach
www.amigo-spiele.de · E-Mail: hotline@amigo-spiele.de
Hier geht´s zur Spielerklärung!
	peter	
fiona	
hannah	
jacob	
emily	
william
	 -6	
-13	
-14	
-8	
-3	
-13
	 -5	
-9	
-17	
-10	
-3	
	 +3	
-17	
-10	
-5	
-6	
-7
	 -8	
-39	
-41	
-23	
-12	
-20
QR