Introduction
E
scape from Colditz is an iconic game, and a classic part of British culture. 
The game has built up a mythology over the years, through house rules 
and differing editions, and for some players their memories of those editions 
form an undeniable part of the game’s appeal.
When given the opportunity to revisit the rules to a classic game, the 
temptation is to apply decades of game development and refinement to create 
something entirely new. This is not the approach we took when designing this 
edition. Escape from Colditz means so much to so many players, to say 
nothing of its designers who painstakingly struck a balance between exciting 
gameplay and Major Reid’s real experience as the first British escape officer 
at Colditz, that to do so would be disrespectful. 
We wanted this edition to be a remastering rather than a remake, to refine 
and to clarify what made the original so exciting rather than to replace it. 
Some rules have been tweaked to clarify the designers’ original intent, while 
others address ambiguities in the original rulebook. All of these changes have 
been made in consultation with Brian Degas, the game’s surviving designer.
For those who are interested (and those for whom the fun lies in revisiting 
classic arguments), we have included the original rules in full at the back of 
this rulebook.
We hope you enjoy reliving the escape once more.
– The Osprey Games team

Game Components
•	 Game board of Colditz Castle
•	 2 dice
•	 Round marker
•	 16 black pawns, representing the German Guards
•	 5 sets of 8 pawns, representing the different nationalities of POWs at Colditz: 
Americans (blue), British (red), Dutch (orange), French (brown) and Polish (green)
•	 5 sets of Escape Attempt markers
•	 16 Security cards, used by the Security Officer
•	 47 Opportunity cards, used by the Escape Officers
•	 27 Escape Equipment cards
•	 5 Escape Kit cards
•	 5 Do or Die cards, which are only used in the classic rules of the game
Legend
The rules and cards refer to three areas of the board – the inner courtyard, the 
outer courtyard and outside the castle. These are detailed below, while 
the different types of spaces in the game are listed on the next page.
Outside the Castle
POWs outside the castle 
are exempt from the 
Security Officer’s ‘Appel’ 
card, but may be targeted 
with a ‘Shoot to Kill’ card.
Outer Courtyard
POWs arrested here will 
have a piece of equipment 
confiscated.
Inner Courtyard
POWs who are arrested 
in this area will not have 
equipment confiscated. 

Guard Posts
Guards may deploy or return to the 
Commander’s office from these spaces. 
They can be moved through as normal 
spaces. Any POW who ends their 
movement on one of these spaces is 
liable for arrest.
Commander’s Office
Guards return here after an arrest.
Barracks
Guards are deployed from here.
Staff Car
This can only be used with the matching 
Opportunity card.
Targets
A POW must reach one of these to escape.
Barbed Wire
POWs may cut through with a wire 
cutter where there are connected spaces 
on both sides. 
Drops
POWs may use a rope to move from a 
space marked ‘30’ (indicating 30ft) to the 
white space below, or two ropes to move 
down drops of 60ft. 
Inspection Points
POWs must use a pass to move into 
these spaces.
Round Countdown
At the end of every turn the Security 
Officer will move the round marker 
down one number as you count down to 
the end of the game.
Doors
POWs must use a key to move into these 
spaces.

Appel
This is where POWs will begin the game. 
The Appel area also counts as a safe area 
for most purposes.
Safe Areas
POWs on these spaces are exempt from 
arrest and Security card effects. Guards 
may not enter these spaces unless they 
contain an Escape Attempt marker.
Solitary Cells
This is where POWs are placed after 
arrest. A POW can only exit solitary 
if their Escape Officer rolls doubles on 
a movement roll or plays the relevant 
Opportunity card. When released they 
start as close as possible to the space 
indicated with the arrow. 
Searchlights
POWs may not end their movement on 
one of these spaces.
Tunnels
POWs may use a tunnel if they have the 
relevant Opportunity card. All pawns may 
move over these spaces, even if there is 
a POW on that space, but only POWs 
that have entered that tunnel may end 
their turn on these spaces. The tunnel’s 
entrance is the darker space in each 
room, while the exit is the darker space 
in the outer courtyard.
Walkways
Guards may not end their movement on 
one of these spaces.
Rooms
These are where POWs will assemble 
Equipment with the matching symbol, or 
Escape Kits. Guards may not enter rooms 
unless they are pursuing a POW down 
a rope, or have discovered the tunnel in 
that room.

Rules of the game 
 
Setup
Before you begin, decide together how many rounds you wish to play, and place the 
round counter on that number. We recommend 50 rounds for new players, and 
40 rounds or fewer for more experienced players – the fewer rounds you play, 
the more unlikely escape will be. At the end of every round the marker will count 
down towards the eagle space (number 1), until escape is no longer possible. 
Next, decide which player will take the role of the German Security Officer. 
That player’s duty will be to prevent the others from escaping. Each other player 
will play as the Escape Officer of a different nation among the Allied POWs held 
captive at Colditz. A different number of pawns are used depending on the number 
of players. Each player should take the number of pawns of their chosen colour 
listed in the grid below.
Number of Players
Security Officer
Escape Officers
Separate the Escape Equipment cards into four piles and place them face-up beside 
the board. Give one Escape Kit to every Escape Officer. Shuffle the Security and 
Opportunity decks and place them face-down beside the board. Deal one Security 
card to the Security Officer, and one Opportunity card to each Escape Officer.
Note: if playing with six players, remove the six cards titled ‘Escape Kit (part)’ 
from the Opportunity deck and give them to the Security Officer, who must keep 
them face-down on the table.
Set up the POWs according to their starting positions in the Appel Diagram 
above. The Security Officer can then choose where to deploy the Guards. One Guard 
for every Escape Officer must be deployed to guard posts in the inner courtyard, 
and between two and seven additional Guards must be deployed to guard posts in 
the outer courtyard. The remaining Guards are placed in the Barracks.
2 Players
3 Players
Appel
At the start of the game, 
POWs should be aligned in this 
pattern, depending on the 
number of players. The colours 
used here indicate starting 
positions for sets of POWs, 
rather than for specific 
nationalities.
These are the same positions 
POWs will return to when the 
Appel card is used.

Playing the Game
The goal of Escape Officers is to get as many POWs to escape targets as possible. 
They will assemble escape equipment, manage their opportunities and plan carefully 
to achieve a successful escape run. Escape Officers will need to work together to 
thwart the Guards, but must prioritise the needs of their own nation when the going 
gets tough. The goal of the Security Officer is to prevent as many escapes as possible. 
On every turn, starting with the Escape Officer to the left of the Security Officer 
and moving clockwise, players will roll their dice and move some or all of their 
pawns based on the result, playing cards and assembling Equipment as they see fit. 
Once they’ve finished, they pass the dice to their left for the next player’s turn. The 
Security Officer will go last, then move the round marker down one space as time 
runs out for the escapers. The game will end after 50 rounds, or at the end of a round 
where the second POW of the same nationality has escaped. 
Note: the section describing the board contains important clarifications, and 
should be considered part of the rules.
Movement
At the start of every turn, you will roll both dice. The combined result gives you the 
total distance you can move your pawns (Guards or POWs) this turn. Movement can 
be split between as few or as many pawns as the player sees fit. For example a roll 
of 9 could mean moving a single pawn nine spaces, moving three pawns two spaces 
each and another pawn three spaces, moving nine pawns a single space each, or any 
other combination. You do not need to use all of your allowed movement on your 
turn. A pawn may never move through a space containing another pawn.
Each time an Escape Officer rolls doubles on their movement roll, they may move 
a POW of their choosing out of solitary, at a cost of one point of movement.
If you roll doubles on any dice roll, be it for movement or due to a card, you may 
roll again adding the extra dice to your total. You may never roll more than two 
extra times due to rolling doubles. 
If the rules or the cards ever say ‘directly’, you do not need to use your movement 
roll to carry out that action.
The Security Officer moves Guards in the same way that Escape Officers move 
POWs, except that they may also use the guard posts to redeploy their pawns. Guards 
may be moved to any guard post from the barracks, or sent to the Commander’s 
office from any guard post, at the cost of one point of movement. The Guards in the 
Commander’s office move to the barracks at the end of the Security Officer’s turn, 
meaning the same Guard cannot leave and re-enter the board on the same turn.
4 Players
5 Players
6 Players

Opportunity & Security Cards
Moving slowly grants you more possibility to see where escapes are possible! If your 
roll for movement is 5 or lower, you may draw a card. The Security Officer draws 
a Security card, while the Escape Officers draw Opportunity cards. If you roll doubles 
lower than a 5 you may still re-roll, but you cannot draw more than one card per turn. 
You can only draw cards on the result of a movement roll, not other types of roll.
The maximum number of Opportunity or Security cards a player can hold is three. 
Should you draw a fourth, one of your cards must be used or discarded face-down before 
the end of your turn. Opportunity cards cannot be traded between Escape Officers.
You may use these cards at any point during your turn, unless the card begins 
with the word ‘interrupt’. If it does, follow the instructions on the card. The only 
exception to this is the Security Officer’s ‘Appel’ card, which must be played before 
that player’s movement roll.
Once a Security or Opportunity card is used or discarded, the card is sent to the 
bottom of the relevant deck. All card effects happen instantly, unless an interrupt 
card is played.
The ‘Appel’ Card
The Security deck contains two copies of the ‘Appel’ card. This is the only card which 
must be played at a fixed time, in this case before the Security Officer’s movement 
roll. It is also the only Security card which the Escape Officers may partially ignore, 
by refusing to move some or all of their POWs. If the Escape Officers do so, the 
Security Officer can choose to make a general search with their Guards, rather than 
move them. 
For a general search, the Security Officer will roll the dice as usual but will not 
move the Guards. If any POWs are within the total dice range of any guard, they will 
be arrested, going directly to solitary and discarding equipment if they are in the 
outer courtyard. All Guards remain in place, and the Security Officer’s turn ends.
Arrest
Guards may arrest a POW by moving into the same space. In the inner courtyard, 
POWs can only be arrested if their Escape Officer is holding Escape Equipment. 
Any POWs caught in the outer courtyard, outside the castle, or on a guard post are 
liable for arrest, whether or not their Escape Officer is holding equipment.
The only exception to this rule are POWs who have been released from the outer 
solitary cells – if their Escape Officer has no equipment, and uses as much of their 
movement as possible to move the POWs towards the inner courtyard, those POWs 
are exempt from arrest.
A Guard who makes an arrest is sent directly to the Commander’s office, while 
the POW is sent to solitary. If the POW is in the outer courtyard or outside the castle, 
that POW’s Escape Officer must also discard an Equipment card of their choosing. 
POWs arrested in the inner courtyard are sent to the inner solitary cells, while those 
arrested outside are sent to the outer solitary cells. If either set of cells is full, the POW 
is sent to the other.
Escape Officers may also force arrest, whether or not they have any Equipment, 
by moving a POW into a Guard. Guards removed from the board in this way will 
only return to the barracks at the end of the Security Officer’s turn.
If a POW ends their movement on a guard post, they are liable to arrest whether 
or not their Escape Officer holds Equipment. A Guard deployed to that guard post 
immediately arrests the POW, and is sent to the Commander’s office.

Equipment Cards
Equipment cards can be gained by an Escape Officer who places two POWs in rooms 
with the matching symbol. Each symbol is associated with two different rooms – the 
Escape Officer may place one POW in both rooms, or two POWs in either. Once they 
meet the criteria, the Escape Officer simply declares that they’re making the item, 
then takes the card and sends both POWs to any spaces in the appel area.
Equipment cards can be traded freely between Escape Officers, except during the 
Security Officer’s turn. If a type of Equipment card runs out, that piece of Equipment 
cannot be made. You must wait until another Escape Officer uses theirs, or try to 
barter for it. Make sure not to give too much information away to the Security 
Officer about what you’re holding!
Escape Kits
Escape Kits are gathered similarly to Equipment, but each 
Escape Officer can only hold one Kit at a time, which can 
never be confiscated by the Security Officer. They require 
four different components – food, documents, a compass 
and a disguise. Each of these elements is found in 
two different rooms. The Escape Officers have been 
working towards getting their POWs out for some 
time before the game begins, and have already 
assembled an Escape Kit each.
To build a complete kit, an Escape Officer must 
have one POW in each of the four types of room 
simultaneously. They then declare that they’re making an Escape Kit, take the card 
and send those four POWs to any spaces in the appel area. Occasionally Escape 
Officers will have Opportunity cards which count towards an Escape Kit. In this case 
those Escape Officers can use the card instead of having POWs in those areas when 
making a Kit. Both types of ‘Escape Kit (part)’ cards can be combined to form a 
complete Escape Kit, without the need to place POWs.
Note: if playing with six players, Escape Officers draw a face-down card from 
the separate pile of ‘Escape Kit (part)’ cards every time one of their POWs escapes. 
The Security Officer should keep these to make them distinct from the Opportunity 
deck, but cannot check them.
Escape Attempts
POWs may attempt escape by using Equipment to get through doors and wire fences, 
onto inspection points and down steep drops. Every time you use a piece of 
Equipment, you must return that card to the stack.
POWs may move onto inspection 
points and doors using a pass or a key 
respectively, while Guards can move 
through those spaces freely. If the POWs 
are returning to the inner courtyard from 
solitary however, they can freely pass 
through the door and inspection point at 
the inner courtyard’s entrance. 
Drops require a rope. If you are on a 
space marked ‘30’ you can use a rope to 
move through the window or over the 
wall to the adjacent space with the white 
These are the only free 
entrances to the inner 
courtyard from outer solitary.

border. Spaces marked ‘60’ require two ropes. Wire fences can be cut through using 
a wire cutter at any point where two spaces are separated by wire.
Any time a POW uses a rope or wire cutters, they must place an Escape Attempt 
marker on those spaces. This marker allows access through the wire or down the drop 
for POWs of that nationality only or for Guards.
Beware though! Guards may enter any room containing an Escape Attempt marker. 
They may use the Escape Attempt marker to follow escaping POWs – this is the only 
way Guards can move through wire fences or down drops. Guards may also remove the 
marker as they move over it. This is at their discretion – removing the Escape Attempt 
marker prevents more Guards from following via this route. Other Escape Officers may 
replace an Escape Attempt marker with one of their own colour by using Equipment 
cards on the same route. Guards may not remain in a room after they remove a marker 
– they must move down the drop, or go directly to the Commander’s office.
Escape Officers may send a POW in the reverse direction through a fence or over 
a drop if they are rethinking their plans. This requires that the original Escape Attempt 
marker still be in place, and costs additional equipment (a wire cutter, one rope or two 
ropes). Guards may not move in the reverse direction.
Tunnels
A tunnel on the board may only be used when an Escape Officer plays the matching 
tunnel card and moves two POWs into the tunnel. Once open, that tunnel can be used 
by all Escape Officers. POWs must enter through the marked space in the inner 
courtyard, and exit through the marked space in the outer courtyard.
Guards or POWs who are not in the tunnel may pass over POWs inside the tunnel, 
but may never end their turn on a tunnel space. Guards may only arrest POWs in the 
tunnel if the Security Officer has played a ‘Tunnel Discovered’ card and nominated 
that particular tunnel.
Any tunnel will collapse and be unusable if there are fewer that two POWs in it 
at the end of any player’s turn. The remaining POW is sent to solitary, and the tunnel 
can no longer be used unless that tunnel card is played again.
Successful Escapes
Once a POW reaches any target on the board, he 
escapes successfully. Escape Officers need two of their 
POWs to escape successfully to win the game.
An Escape Kit is needed for each successful escape 
– when a POW escapes the board, he takes the Escape 
Kit with him to prepare for his journey through enemy 
territory. An Escape Kit may be shared by two POWs 
of the same nationality, but only if they both escape on 
the same turn.
Once a POW escapes, any or all Escape Attempt 
markers of that POW’s colour may be removed from 
the board at the Security Officer’s discretion. If any 
Guards were pursuing that POW outside the castle, and 
there are no other POWs in that area, those Guards are 
sent immediately to the Commander’s office.
Note: if playing with six players remember that the 
Escape Officer takes an ‘Escape Kit (part)’ card after a 
successful escape.

Ending a Round
Once all the Escape Officers have taken their turn, the Security Officer takes theirs. 
At the end of the Security Officer’s turn all Guards in the Commander’s office are 
moved to the barracks, and the round marker moves down one space. When the round 
marker reaches the eagle, the Escape Officers have one final turn to attempt escape.
Winning the Game
Should two POWs of the same nationality escape, the game ends at the end of that 
round and that Escape Officer wins. If multiple Escape Officers achieve this in the 
same round, they share victory. Should the Escape Officers fail to achieve this in the 
allotted number of rounds, the Security Officer wins.
Play Options
Should you wish, the game may be played over a longer or shorter number of rounds, 
or without starting Escape Kits. This must be agreed on by all players before the 
game begins.
Players can also agree on a total number of escapes between all nations as a 
shared victory condition for the Escape Officers. We suggest a number at least equal 
to the number of Escape Officers.
Quick Reference 
•	 Rolling doubles on any dice roll allows a re-roll, which is added to the total. 
You can never re-roll more than twice on a given dice roll.
•	 Rolling 5 or less on a movement roll allows you to draw a Security or 
Opportunity card. There is a maximum of one card per turn drawn in this way.
•	 Rolling doubles on a movement roll for Escape Officers also allows one POW to be 
released from solitary per double rolled. This costs one movement per POW released.
•	 Equipment cards can be exchanged freely between Escape Officers, except 
during the Security Officer’s turn. Opportunity cards can never be exchanged.
•	 POWs can only move past drops, wire fences, inspection points and doors by 
spending an Equipment card. Guards can only move through drops and wire 
fences where there is an Escape Attempt marker, but can move through doors 
and inspection points freely.
•	 POWs cannot end their movement on a searchlight space. Guards cannot end 
their movement on a walkway space, appel or safe area. Neither can end their 
movement on a tunnel space unless they are a POW making use of the tunnel card.
•	 Moving over POWs inside a tunnel is the only time a pawn can move through 
another pawn.
•	 A POW can be arrested if: 
–– Their Escape Officer is holding Escape Equipment, or
–– They are outside the inner courtyard, or
–– They end their movement on a guard post, or
–– They are ignoring an ‘Appel’ card. 
•	 A POW cannot be arrested in a safe area, on the appel area, in a tunnel which 
has not been discovered, or if returning promptly from the outer solitary cells 
without Equipment.

Introduction
1.	 Trying your hand at escaping from Colditz Castle, 
the multi-national, maximum security prison during the 
Second World War, 1939 to 1945, may reveal aspects of 
your nature which you did not dream you possessed, as 
so often it did to the men imprisoned there.
2.	 Reading through the supplementary information 
supplied in the booklet should help you to recreate 
the atmosphere of Colditz Castle during the War.
3.	 To play the game successfully requires both ingenuity 
and patience, as well as experience based on failure, 
and nerve and dash at the crucial moment. Some 
knowledge of the cards is essential.
The object of the game
4.	 One player takes the part of the German Security 
Officer; the other players take the part of an Escape 
Officer, each representing a different nation’s 
Prisoners of War. Each Escape Officer attempts to 
achieve more successful escapes than his fellow 
Escape Officers, whilst the German Officer seeks 
to prevent, or limit, such escapes.
5.	 Because the game is a simulation of conditions in 
Colditz, it is virtually impossible to prevent a number 
of successful escapes being achieved. In a typical 
game between six players, the POWs will spend up 
to an hour collecting the equipment and escape kit 
necessary to make escape attempts; thereafter, escape 
attempts will be made frequently.
For new players we suggest a time limit of 2 ½ 
hours for a game. The first Escape Officer to make 
two successful escapes will be the winner; should 
this not be achieved, the German Security Officer 
will be the winner. With experience, players will 
set their own targets, to suit the time available and 
number playing. All players must agree the ‘success 
formula’ before play starts.
Method
6.	 Players, in turn, throw the dice, and move their men. 
(Rules 19-21). POW teams aim to obtain Escape Kit 
(Rules 31-33) and Escape Equipment (Rules 29 & 
30), both essential to making an escape attempt. 
They may also collect Opportunity Cards (Rules 
22 & 27). Depending on the types of equipment 
collected, and Opportunity Cards held, each Escape 
Officer will then plan routes and execute the escapes 
of individual men in his team.
7.	 The Security Officer, similarly, moves his men (Rules 
19, 20, 34(a) & (b)), collects Security Cards (rule 28), 
and attempts to prevent escapes by arresting POWs 
(Rules 34(c), (d) and (e)).
8.	 Escape Officers may combine members of their 
respective teams if they wish and may employ false 
trails, distractions and bluffs to confuse and outwit 
the German Security Forces.
9.	 An Escaper is deemed to have succeeded and to 
be ‘gone away’ when he reaches, safely, one of 
the targets outside the perimeters of the Castle as 
marked on the Board.
The exact score is not required providing he 
lands on or passes the target.
The equipment of the game
10.	The Colditz Game Board is based on a true plan 
of Colditz Castle, but adapted to provide all 
the necessary rooms on one level. It consists of the 
Inner POW Courtyard, coloured grey, and the outer 
Garrison Courtyard, known as the Kommandantur.
11.	A Coloured Legend Diagram printed earlier in this 
booklet focuses on certain areas of the Board and 
explain their purpose, alongside the Appel (Roll 
Call) diagram for starting the game, depending on 
the number of players competing.
12.	Two Dice – These are used together for all throws.
13.	Forty Pawns – the POWs; in groups of different 
colours representing the Escape Teams of various 
nationalities imprisoned in Colditz as follows.
	
	
American Team	
blue	
	
British Team	 	
red	
	
Dutch Team	 	
orange	 8 POWs
	
French Team	 	
brown	 8 POWs
	
Polish Team	 	
green	
Sixteen Black pawns – the Guards, representing 
the German Security Officer’s forces.
14.	 Five packs of cards consisting of:
 
	
 5 Personal Civilian Escape Kit cards
	
27 Escape Equipment cards
	
47 Escaper’s Opportunity cards
	
16 German Security cards
	
 5 Do or Die cards
The Classic Rules of the Game

To prepare for the game
15.	Place the board on a good sized table, putting the 
five packs of Cards separately, face downwards, off 
the Board but conveniently placed for all the players.
16.	Escape Officers choose their nationalities. The 
German Security Officer may be elected by agreement 
or selected by throwing dice.
17.	Place the German Security Forces in the German 
Barracks as indicated on the board and the escape 
teams in the POWs’ Courtyard in the following 
numbers: (See Appel diagram on pages 6–7).
For 6 players	Security Officer	 16 Guards
	
		
4 POWs each
For 5 Players	Security Officer	 15 Guards
	
		
5 POWs each
For 4 Players	Security Officer	 14 Guards
	
		
6 POWs each
For 3 Players	Security Officer	 12 Guards
	
		
Escape Team	
7 POWs each
For 2 Players	Security Officer	 6 Guards
	
		
Escape Team	
18.	All POWs being lined up in the Inner Courtyard for 
a general Roll Call (Appel), the German Security 
Officer now places one Guard for each Escaping 
team on any of the black circles shown in the 
Inner Courtyard. He must also place at least 2, but 
not more than 7, Guards on black circles in the 
Outer areas of the Castle. His remaining Guards 
are held in reserve in the German Barracks in the 
Kommandantur area.
To play the game
19.	The Escape Officer immediately to the left of the 
Security Officer is the first to play. He throws his 
two dice and moves his POWs in any direction from 
one adjacent circle to another, counting one digit 
for each circle. The other Escape Officers throw 
in Turn and then the Security Officer. POWs and 
German Guards therefore, move about the board 
on the circles shown in various directions according 
to the dice throws and the Rules of the Game and 
intentions of the Escape Officers. There is thus a 
continual movement of men, of ebbing and flowing, 
which animates and brings ‘life’ to the Castle.
20.	Throwing a double(s) entitles that player to another 
throw. His score is totalled before he moves.
21.	Any number of POWs in a team may be moved to 
the total of the throw: e.g., a throw of eight entitles 
the Escape Officer to move one of his men eight 
circles or one three circles and another five circles, 
or any other combination he wishes.
22.	A throw of 3, 7 or 11 entitles an Escape Officer to 
take an Escaper’s Opportunity Card or the German 
Security Officer, to draw a Security Card from the 
German Security Pack.
After drawing a card, the Escape Officer or 
Security Officer moves his men in accordance with 
the throw of 3, 7 or 11.
23.	No POW or German can pass through or over 
another man; he must go round or move him in 
accordance with the rules. But see Do or Die, Staff 
car and Tunnel rules, (No. 51, 52 and 53).
24.	The total number of dice throw need not be used.
25.	Safe Areas (See Legend Diagram) may be used by all 
POWs reaching them by dice thrown in their turn.
26.	The term move directly means, in all cases, without 
counting dice throws.
27.	Opportunity Cards may be played at once or held 
in the hand. An Escape Officer may only hold a 
maximum of three Opportunity Cards at any time. 
If an Escape Officer draws a fourth, he must use 
one of the four on that turn. He may, however, elect 
to discard one without using it or he may exchange 
it with another Escape Officer or even give it away. 
Opportunity Cards in general may be used only 
during a turn (for exemptions see Rule 49) after 
which they should be returned to the bottom of 
the pack.
28.	Security Cards are drawn and held likewise by 
the German Security Officer. Only three may be 
held at one time and the same rules apply as for 
Opportunity Cards.
29.	Escape Equipment Cards are obtained by placing 
two POWs in each room where the required 
equipment symbols are shown; alternatively – 
One POW may be placed in each of two rooms 
containing the appropriate symbols.
After claiming Equipment, both POWs must 
move directly to the Appel area. Equipment may 
also be obtained from Opportunity Cards.
30.	Any equipment obtained is held by the Escape 
Officer and not by an individual POW. Also, once 
a piece of equipment is obtained, all POWs of that 
nation are liable to arrest irrespective of which 
POWs obtained the equipment. (See Rule 34C).
31.	A Personal Civilian Escape Kit Card must be 
held by an Escape Officer and displayed when 
one of his POWs reaches an Escape Target. It is 
a precondition for a successful escape. However, 
an Escape Officer may collect the Kit at any time 

during the game at his discretion, according to the 
following rules.
The Escape Kit consists of Civilian Disguises, 
Magnetic Compass, Food, false documents, maps 
and money (Reichmarks). For the purpose of 
this game, documents, maps and money have 
been combined together, providing a total of four 
components to be collected. 
32.	This Kit may be obtained:
o	 a)	By placing one POW in each of the rooms 
containing the symbols – Disguise, Compass, 
Food and Documents. 
When the POWs are in position simultaneously 
the Escape Kit Card may be claimed. 
Alternatively – 
o	 b)	
Through Opportunity Cards. These 
may be held in secret and used when required. 
They may also be exchanged for an Escape 
Kit Card if all four components of the Escape 
Kit are held. The Opportunity Cards are then 
returned to the bottom of the pack.
o	 c)	By a combination of method (a) and (b).
33.	The Escape Kit Card once obtained is held for the 
duration of the Game and never surrendered. POWs do 
not return direct to the Appel area after obtaining kit.
The Game in Progress
The Security Officer
34.	Watching carefully what the POWs are doing, upon 
his turn and having thrown the dice, moves his men 
similarly to the Escape Officers, from circle to circle, 
up to the total dice throw. He may:
o	 a)	Post more guards but only on the vacant 
black circles, from his reserve in the 
Kommandantur: as many as he wishes, up 
to the total number of this dice score. In a 
dangerous situation he may also choose to 
employ all his reserves. (This was known as 
calling out the ‘Riot Squad’.) New Guards 
must be posted before any arrests are made 
and not after arrests. (See (c), (d) and (e) 
below). Guards cannot be reposted in that run 
after making arrests.
o	 b)	
Remove Guards to the German 
Barracks if he wishes, but only from Black 
Guard circles; such guards cannot be recalled 
to duty on that turn. One point is deducted 
from the dice score for each guard so returned 
to barracks.
o	 c)	Arrest a POW anywhere in the Prisoners’ 
Courtyard (grey) area except inside a tunnel, 
in a safe area, or in a room, by moving a guard 
on to his circle (not necessarily the exact throw 
of the dice) and providing the Escape Officer 
holds an Equipment Card. The POW is sent 
directly to a Solitary Confinement Cell chosen 
by the Security Officer and the guard returned 
directly to barracks. No equipment card is 
confiscated. 
o	 d)	
Arrest a POW outside the courtyard 
by moving on to his circle whether or not his 
Escape Officer holds a piece of equipment; the 
POW is sent to Solitary and the guard to the 
barracks as above. The Escape Officer must 
surrender one piece of any equipment he may 
hold. The choice of card is his and it is returned 
to the pack.
o	 e)	Arrest more than one POW, but he can only 
arrest one POW per guard in a turn.
Prisoners of War
35.	POWs cannot be arrested on the White Appel circles.
36.	POWs can stop on black circles and may be arrested 
on them, subject to the arrest rules.
37.	A POW may be removed from Solitary Confinement 
Cells by throwing a double. The balance of the score 
– i.e. the score less one – of the double may be used 
for the movement of any POW of the team. If the 
cell door is blocked by other POWs he may move 
directly to the nearest free circle. There are also 
5 Opportunity Cards which provide release from 
Solitary Confinement. 
38.	POWs in cells, safe areas (marked blue), tunnels, 
or outside the entire Castle walls or wire are not 
required to attend Appel.
39.	A POW, when released from the outer cells (Section 
4 of the board) may only re-enter the Prisoners’ 
Courtyard through the ‘Pass’ circle. A pass is 
not required. Whilst returning to the Prisoners’ 
Courtyard he is not liable to arrest. He may, however, 
at any time make an escape attempt. And is liable 
to arrest once it is apparent that he is not moving 
directly back to the Prisoners’ Courtyard.
40.	A POW who is escaping down rope or through wire 
and wants to get back into the Castle must forfeit 
another appropriate equipment card. 
41.	A POW cannot go round a Key or Pass circle. He 
must surrender the relevant cards.
42.	A POW can at no time remain in a Searchlight 
beam. He may move across it or stop short of it.

43.	A POW may force arrest upon himself during his 
turn, by moving onto a circle occupied by a guard. 
Rules 34 (c) and (d) will then apply as appropriate.
The Guards
44.	Guards cannot enter rooms, unless the relevant 
‘Search Card’ or ‘Appel Card’ is played by the 
security officer, in his turn.
45.	Guards cannot block entrances to rooms and must 
not impede the movement of POWs inside the grey 
prison courtyard area by remaining in doorways or 
passages between turns.
46.	When giving chase over walls or through wire 
a guard must use the same route as the escaping 
POW. He must return directly to barracks either 
when the POW reaches his target or when he makes 
an arrest or shoots to kill.
The Cards
47.	Cards may be drawn, employed or discarded only 
during a player’s turn except under rule 49. All 
cards when employed, discarded or confiscated are 
returned to the bottom of their respective packs. 
They cannot be held for repeated use.
48.	The bartering or exchange of cards is permitted 
between Escape Officers at any time.
49.	The following cards may be played out of turn: 
Arrest Key or Pass Holder, Advance Warning of 
Appel or Search, Talisman, Hideaway.
50.	An Equipment Card may benefit any number of 
POWs of a team during the turn in which it is used, 
provided only that the dice throw and free circles 
allow their movement and rule 23 is observed.
51.	DO OR DIE CARDS. Provided his Escape Officer 
holds an Escape Kit Card a POW can, in his turn, 
make a ‘Do or Die’ Escape. The Escape Officer 
takes the top card from the face downwards ‘Do 
or Die’ pack. The Card will say how many throws 
the POW has to make the attempt. Starting from 
anywhere within the light grey coloured prisoners 
area, including rooms, and requiring no equipment, 
the POW runs out through the Garrison Courtyard 
and buildings crossing the moat. Guards in his path 
cannot stop him. Failure to reach a target means 
the prisoner is shot dead and the whole team is out 
of the game. Opportunity Cards are not claimed 
on throws of 3, 7 or 11.
52.	STAFF CAR CARD. A POW may only use the Staff 
Car if he holds the relevant Opportunity Card and 
reaches the car by dice throws in his turn(s) giving 
up necessary equipment en route. Guards posted on 
the route of the Staff Car must stand aside. No pass 
is required at the main gate.
53.	TUNNEL CARDS. Tunnels can only be occupied 
when the Escape Officer holds the appropriate 
Tunnel Card which he must show when challenged. 
He must return it to the bottom of the pack after 
either detection or the completion of its escape use. 
His team may be composed of different nationalities. 
At least two POWs must occupy the tunnel at all 
times: Tunnellers are exempt from Appel at all times. 
The tunnel can only be entered by guards and the 
tunnellers removed if the Security Officer plays the 
Tunnel Detected card in his turn and follows its 
instructions. These are: Two Guards must move to 
the tunnel by dice count, entering it anywhere. The 
Tunnellers are removed directly to solitary and both 
guards return directly to Barracks.
Guards and POWs (not occupying tunnels) may 
proceed over tunnels but not along them and they 
may step over or around POWs in Tunnels. They 
cannot, however, remain over Tunnels. See similar 
rule for POWs in Searchlight beams. (No. 42).
54.	DIVERSION 
AND 
HIGH 
COMMAND 
INSPECTION CARDS. When an Escape Officer 
plays either of these cards, he may choose which 
sentries are returned directly to Barracks.
Conclusion
55.	The German Security Officer, for obvious reasons 
is in charge of the Board and of discipline, if he 
discovers any infringement of the rules he can send 
the POW concerned to solitary. He will either rise 
to the challenge of controlling the Castle or be 
manipulated by the POWs.
Game Design by Major PR Reid & Brian Degas
Game Development by Osprey Games
Art by Peter Dennis
Osprey Games, part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
PO Box 883, Oxford, OX1 9PL, UK
This edition © 2016 Brian Degas & Osprey Publishing Ltd. 
All Rights Reserved.
www.ospreygames.co.uk