A game by PAOLO MORI
Art by JOHN HOWE

In the faraway land of Ethnos, a new Age is dawning. The ashes of the old Age have left the Six Kingdoms 
empty and the twelve Tribes scattered to the winds. Now is the time for a clever leader to unite them 
into a powerful alliance, skillfully using the unique talents of each Tribe to control the Kingdoms. 
Do you have the wit and the wisdom to become the next Lord of Ethnos and usher in a Golden Age?
 Table of Contents
Game Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 2
Game Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 3
Initial Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 4
Playing the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 4
Beginning a New Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 5
Playing Through an Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 6
Recruiting Allies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 6
Playing a Band of Allies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 7
The End of an Age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 9
A New Age Dawns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 11
The End of the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 11
Playing with 2 or 3 Players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 11
The Tribes of Ethnos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 12
Rules Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p 16
 Game Overview
Two to six players will compete to become the next Lord of Ethnos. 
To do so, you must earn more Glory (victory points) than your rivals by 
controlling the Kingdoms on the game board and recruiting the most 
Allies. You will accomplish your goals by collecting scattered mem­
bers of the 12 Tribes, represented in the game by cards, and playing 
them in Bands to gain control over the Kingdoms.
But be careful! Your Allies can be fickle. Any cards you do not use 
when you create a Band must be discarded, creating opportunities for 
your rivals.
You must also wisely choose who will be the Leader of each Band, 
as only Leaders can use their special abilities to aid you.
The player who can gather the most Glory over three Ages will be 
crowned Lord of Ethnos—and win the game!

 Game Components
1 Main Game Board
depicting the land of Ethnos, divided into 6 Kingdoms
12 Setup Cards
12 Tribe Decks
—each with 12 cards, except the Halfling Tribe 
with 24 cards
1 Double-Sided Giant Token
6 Troll Tokens
18 Glory Tokens
156 Control Markers
—26 per player color
3 Dragon Cards
6 Orc Horde Boards
1 Double-Sided Merfolk Board

 Initial Setup
“In the Age of Creation, the land was formed, much 
as you know it now. In those days, heroes strode the 
land like gods, giving first form, and then their own 
names to the Six Kingdoms…”
—The Chronicles of Ethnos
Place the game board in the middle of the table.
Shuffle the Glory tokens face down, and randomly place one 
face up in each Glory space on the game board (three tokens 
per Kingdom). Then, within each Kingdom, arrange the 
three tokens in ascending order, with the lowest token in the 
“I” space and the highest in the “III” space.
Each player chooses a color and takes the matching Control 
markers. Place one of your markers on the “0” space of the 
Glory Track (on the outer edge of the game board). This is 
your Scoring marker.
Shuffle all the Setup cards and turn over six of them. These 
cards determine which six Tribes will be used in the game. 
Take the Tribe decks for those six Tribes and shuffle them 
together: this forms the Allies Deck. All unused Tribe decks 
and all of the Setup cards can be returned to the box—they 
will not be used this game.
Depending on which Tribes are in the game, you may need to 
set up some additional pieces:
a.	
If the Merfolk are in play, place the Merfolk board 
next to the main game board with the side match­
ing the number of players in the game face up. Each 
player places one of their Control markers on the “0” 
space of the Merfolk board.
b.	
If the Trolls are in play, place all six Troll tokens 
next to the main game board.
c.	
If the Giants are in play, place the Giant token next 
to the main game board with the side matching the 
number of players face up.
d.	 If the Orcs are in play, give each player one Orc 
Horde board.
Now you are ready for the First Age to begin!
 Playing the Game
Ethnos is played over three “Ages.” In each Age, you will try to col­
lect Bands of Allies that will help you control the Kingdoms of Ethnos. 
At the end of each Age, you will earn Glory for the Kingdoms you 
control and the Bands of Allies you have gathered.
2 or 3-Player Games: If you are playing a two or three-player game, you 
will only play through two Ages. See “Playing with 2 or 3 Players” on page 11.

 Beginning 
a New Age
“As the mountains are built, stone upon stone, so 
are the Ages built, day upon day.
—Mahaidu, Archivist of the Tribe of Minotaurs
Follow these steps to begin each Age:
Each player draws one card from the Allies Deck and adds it 
to their hand.
Turn over a number of cards from the Allies Deck equal to 
twice the number of players in the game and place them in a 
row face up next to the main game board (2 players = 4 cards 
/ 3 players = 6 cards / 4 players = 8 cards / 5 players = 10 cards 
/ 6 players = 12 cards).
Split the rest of the Allies Deck into two roughly equal halves. 
Shuffle the three Dragon cards into one half, then place it 
underneath the other half to recreate the Allies Deck, so the 
Dragon cards are all in the bottom half of the deck.
For the First Age, choose one player randomly to be the first player. 
In the Second and Third Age, the player with the least Glory (on the 
Glory Track) will be the first player. If there is a tie, the tied player 
closest to the player who drew the third Dragon card in the previous 
Age (starting from that player and going clockwise) is the first player.
Scoring Markers
Glory Tokens
Allies Deck
Face-up Ally Cards
Merfolk Board (if in play)
Player’s Orc Horde Board 
(if in play)
Troll Tokens
(if in play)
Giant Token (if in play)
Player’s
Control Markers Reserve
Player’s Starting
Ally Card (in hand) 

 Playing Through 
an Age
“Let the wind guide you as you pass through the 
lands of the Six Kingdoms, and all shall know you by 
your wisdom.”
—Leth’lorilai, Great Seer of the Tribe of Wingfolk
 
During each Age, players take turns, starting with the first player 
and going to the left.
RECRUITING ALLIES
“Come. Join our brotherhood. And by my axe and 
by Hralvin’s hammer, we shall forge the Six Kingdoms 
anew.”
	
—Orildan, Thane of the Tribe of Dwarves
When you recruit an Ally, draw one card and add it to your hand. 
You can draw any of the face up Ally cards on the table, or you can 
draw the top card from the Allies Deck.
If you draw one of the face up cards, do not replace it with a new 
one from the deck.
Hand Limit: If you already have 10 Ally cards in your hand, you 
cannot choose this action on your turn. You must Play a Band of Al­
lies instead.
Playing Hint: In order to get the most out of your Allies, you need to 
collect groups that are from the same color or from the same Tribe.
Example: Roderick 
 has his eye on the Kingdom of Duris, so he 
needs at least one purple Ally. He already has a couple of Dwarves in his 
hand, so he takes the face up purple Dwarf card. Soon, Duris will be his!
 
Alexis 
 is the next to go. She can see that Roderick 
 is plotting 
to take over Duris, and she really wants to compete with him there, but none 
of the face up cards are going to help her. She draws the top card from the 
Allies deck instead. Will it help her? The other players don’t know…
When it is your turn, you must choose one of these options:
• Recruit one Ally
or
• Play a Band of Allies

Dragon Cards
“Flee! The Dragon has come! Fire! Fear! Death!”
—Hemdien, Watchkeeper of the Tribe of Giants
If you draw a Dragon card from the Allies Deck, you must reveal it 
immediately. Set the Dragon card beside the main game board where 
all players can see it. Then, draw another card from the deck.
The first two Dragon cards have no effect on play, but when the 
third Dragon is drawn, the Age immediately comes to an end! See 
“The End of an Age” on page 9. Keep the third Dragon card next to 
the player who drew it, in order to help determine the next Age’s First 
Player in case of a tie for least Glory.
PLAYING A BAND OF ALLIES
“Raid! Pillage! Burn! And raid some more!”
—Gleck, Hordekeeper of the Tribe of Orcs
A Band of Allies is a group of cards that you play together from 
your hand. A Band can include anywhere from 1 to 10 cards. All of 
the cards in a Band must belong to the same Tribe (i.e., have the same 
name and art) or to the same Kingdom (i.e., have the same color).
When you play a Band of Allies, you must follow these steps:
Lay down the cards you want to include in the Band in front 
of you—remember that they must all be the same color or 
Tribe.
Choose one card in the Band to be the Leader and place it on 
the top of the Band. 
If your Band is large enough, place one of your Control mark­
ers on the Kingdom that matches the color of your Leader 
card. You can only place a Control marker if there are cur­
rently fewer Control markers of your color in that Kingdom 
than the number of cards in the Band you just played (for 
example, you only need 1 card to place your first marker in 
a Kingdom, 2 cards to place your second marker there, and 
so on).
You may use the ability on your Leader's card (abilities on 
the other cards have no effect, except for the Skeleton). Each 
Tribe has its own unique ability.
If you have any cards left in your hand after playing your 
Band, you must discard all of them, face up, next to the main 
game board. These cards will be available for any player to 
pick up when they choose to Recruit an Ally on their turn.
Leave your Band of Allies together in front of you, with the leader 
card on top, so all players can see how many cards are in the Band. All the 
Bands of Allies you play remain there until the end of the Age.
X = Band of Allies Size
Some Tribe abilities refer to "X". This means the total num­
ber of cards in that Leader’s Band of Allies. 
Playing Hint: Keep in mind that you can play Bands larger than 
what is necessary to place a Control marker, with the intention of gain-
ing more Glory, keeping cards away from your opponents, or triggering 
certain Tribes’ abilities. You can also play a Band smaller than neces-
sary, without placing a Control marker, just to gain some Glory for that 
Band of Allies.

Example 1: Roderick 
 is ready to make his move. He plays all 3 of his 
Dwarf cards, making sure that the purple one is on top—that’s the Leader 
of his new Band. Since the Leader of the Band is purple, Roderick 
can 
place a Control marker in Duris if the Band is big enough. Since he currently 
has 2 Control markers there, a Band of 3 Allies is big enough for him to place 
his third marker. Now he’s in control of Duris! But will he keep it? Roderick 
 then discards all of the cards still in his hand, placing them with the 
other face-up cards next to the board.
Example 2: Alexis 
 would like to add a Control marker to Duris. 
How­ever, her purple Band of Allies has only 2 cards, and she already has 2 
markers in Duris. She opts instead to add one of her markers to Rhea and 
gain the majority there. Normally, she would not be allowed to add a marker to 
the red Kingdom when playing a purple Leader. However, since the Leader of 
her Band is a Wingfolk, she can use its ability that allows the marker to be placed 
in any Kingdom! Alexis 
 then discards the other cards from her hand.

 The End of an Age
“I know not what form the next Age will take. All I 
know is that this Age will end in darkness and in fire.”
—Bredelaird, Arch-Cantor of the Tribe of Trolls
Players continue taking turns recruiting Allies and playing Bands 
until the third Dragon card is revealed.
When the third Dragon is drawn, the current Age ends immediate-
ly. At this point, the following happens:
ALLIES SCATTER
All players must discard all of the cards left in their hands. 
GLORY FOR THE KINGDOMS
Now it’s time to see who earns the Glory from the six Kingdoms. 
Go through all six Kingdoms, scoring them independently:
• At the end of the First Age, the player with the most Control mark­
ers in a Kingdom earns Glory equal to the value on the lowest Glory 
token in that Kingdom (in the “I” space). Move your Scoring marker 
up on the Glory Track.
• At the end of the Second Age, the player with the most Control 
markers in a Kingdom earns Glory equal to the value of the middle 
Glory token in that Kingdom (in the “II” space). The player with the 
second most Control markers earns Glory equal to the lowest Glory 
token there (in the “I” space).
• At the end of the Third Age, the player with the most Control 
markers in a Kingdom earns Glory equal to the value of the highest 
Glory token in that Kingdom (in the “III” space). The player with the 
second most earns Glory equal to the middle token (in the “II” space), 
and the third place player earns Glory from the lowest Glory token in 
that Kingdom (in the “I” space).
If there is a tie for the most Control markers in a Kingdom, the 
Glory awards for the tied players are combined together and then di­
vided equally between them (rounded down).
Example: It’s now the end of the Second Age. Despite her best efforts, 
Alexis 
 has been unable to overcome Roderick’s 
 lead. He earns 4 
Glory (the value of the token in the “II” space) while Alexis 
 only earns 
2 Glory (the value of the token in the “I” space). Poor Wilfred 
, with the 
third most Control markers, gets nothing.
If Alexis 
 had managed to get one more Control marker here, she 
would have tied with Roderick 
 and they would have split the Glory. 
They would each receive 3 Glory: 4 + 2 = 6, divided by two. Wilfred 
 
would still be third and get nothing.
The Tribes’ Influence
Some of the Tribes have abilities that come into play during 
the resolution of the End of an Age. Pay special attention to the 
Tribes of Ethnos chapter (page 12) at this point if you have the 
Dwarves, Giants, Merfolk, Orcs, Skeletons, or Trolls in play.

GLORY FOR THE BAND OF ALLIES
Finally, every player scores Glory for each of the Bands they con­
trol. The size of each Band determines the amount of Glory awarded:
Number of Cards 
in the Band
Glory 
awarded
6 or more
The Land 
of Ethnos

Example: Roderick 
 has managed to play 3 Bands of Allies during the 
last Age. He scores 1 Glory for the Band with 2 green cards, 6 Glory for the Band 
with 3 Dwarves, and 6 Glory for the Band of 4 red cards: a total of 13 Glory. 
 
 
 A New Age Dawns
“What a lovely day. What a lovely way to start a 
new Age!”
—Plodis, Chief Provisioner of the Tribe of Halflings
Once all of the players have earned their Glory, all players must 
discard all of their Bands of Allies. 
If you just finished the First or Second Age, the next Age begins: 
Set aside the three Dragon cards for a moment and reshuffle all of the 
Ally cards together again to form a new Allies Deck. Then, follow the 
steps for Beginning a New Age (see page 5).
All Control markers on the main game board, the Merfolk board, 
and the players’ Orc Horde boards, if any, remain for the next Age. 
All Troll and Giant tokens must be returned to the side of the main 
game board.
If you just finished the Third and final Age, the game is over. 
  The End of the Game
“The End! The End is nigh!”
—Mierdel, Astromancer of the Tribe of Wizards
After the Third Age is complete, the game ends, and the player who 
has the most Glory is the winner! In case of a tie, the winner is the tied 
player with the most Control markers on the board. If a tie persists, vic­
tory goes to the largest Band of Allies played in the last Age, then second 
largest, and so on.
 Playing with 2 
or 3 Players
When playing a game with two or three players, there are only two 
Ages. All of the normal rules are used, except for these changes:
SETTING UP THE GAME
• Before mixing the Glory tokens, remove the tokens marked with 
a “4+” and return them to the box. Then, shuffle the rest of the tokens 
and place two in each Kingdom.
• Turn over only five of the Setup cards (instead of six). There will 
only be five Tribes in the game.
• If the Tribe of Merfolk or the Tribe of Giants are in the game, use 
the 2-3 player side of the matching board or token.
SPECIAL SCORING FOR 2-PLAYER GAMES
At the end of the First Age, the player with the most Control mark­
ers in each Kingdom earns Glory equal to the lowest Glory token in 
that Kingdom, as normal.
At the end of the Second Age, the player with the most Control 
markers in a Kingdom earns Glory equal to the highest token there. 
Unlike the normal game, the player with the second-most Control 
markers does not earn any Glory for that Kingdom. However, if only one 
player has Control markers in a Kingdom at the end of the Second Age, 
that player earns Glory equal to the value of both Glory tokens in that 
Kingdom! You’ll have to consider spending resources in every Kingdom, 
even if there is no chance of winning control there!
In a 3-player game, the Kingdoms are scored normally at the end 
of both Ages.
PLAYING A BAND OF ALLIES 
FOR 2-PLAYER GAMES
In order to place your Control marker in a Kingdom, you need to 
play a Band with more cards than the total number of Control markers 
in the Kingdom.
Example: if there are 2 of your markers, and 1 of your opponent, to add a 
marker you need to play a Band with at least 4 cards.
+
+
=

 The tribes of Ethnos
Each of the 12 Tribes has its own unique ability. Use their abilities wisely and you will soon be the new Lord of 
Ethnos! Remember that only the Leader of a Band of Allies is allowed to use its ability.
TRIBE OF CENTAURS
Always swift on their hooves, 
the Tribe of Centaurs is a group 
of proud warriors that roam the 
land far and wide. Many enemies 
have fallen prey to their well-
coordinated surprise attacks. 
By the time they can hear their 
thundering gallop, it’s usually too late.
If you make a Centaur the Leader of a Band of Allies, and you 
are able to place a Control marker on a Kingdom for that Band, you 
may immediately play another Band of Allies from your hand—before 
you discard the rest of your cards—possibly placing another Control 
marker and using the second Band’s Leader ability.
For example, if you play a Band of 2 Allies with a blue Centaur Leader, 
and this allows you to add a Control marker to Straton, you can then play 
another Band of Allies with a red Orc Leader, adding a Control marker to 
Rhea and using its ability to add another marker on the red space of your Orc 
Horde Board.
TRIBE OF DWARVES
Deep in their mountain 
fastnesses, the Tribe of Dwarves 
prizes from the earth treasures 
and precious things that are the 
wonder of the Six Kingdoms. For 
an entire Age, they will count 
and gather their riches, for great 
wealth is its own form of glory.
During the scoring at the end of the Age, any Band of Allies that 
has a Dwarf Leader awards Glory as if it had one more card in it.
For example, if you have a Band of 4 cards with a Dwarf Leader, that Band 
is worth 10 Glory at the end of the Age, as if it had 5 cards in it.
TRIBE OF ELVES
The Elves of the Six Kingdoms have always lived in 
harmony with the land, learning to ride the rhythms 
of nature, and never wasting anything of value when 
it can be conserved for use in the future.
If you choose an Elf to lead a Band of Allies, you may keep a num­
ber of cards in your hand equal to the number of cards in the Band you 
just played, instead of discarding them face up on the table.
For example, if you have 7 cards in your hand and you play a Band of 3 
Allies with an Elf Leader, you can keep 3 of your remaining 4 cards and only 
discard a single card.

TRIBE OF GIANTS
It is no doubt obvious that 
among the Tribe of Giants, 
size really does matter. Giants 
continue to grow throughout their 
lives, and no one has ever been 
able to prove that there is a limit 
to their size. Which is fortunate, 
as this is how the Tribe of Giants chooses their king: 
the largest Giant rules.
If your Band of Allies has a Giant for a Leader, check to see if you 
now have the largest Band with a Giant Leader. If you do, you immedi-
ately gain 2 Glory on the Glory Track and you take the Giant token and 
place it on your new Band. Another player can take the Giant token 
away from you only if they play a larger Band with a Giant Leader. 
Even the same player may move the Giant token from one of his Bands 
to a larger one, gaining another 2 Glory. At the end of the Age, you 
gain extra Glory if you still hold the Giant token, the value depending 
on which Age has ended (as indicated on the token). Then the Giant 
­token returns to the side of the board to be used in the next Age.
For Example, if you play a Band of 3 Allies with a Giant Leader, and 
that is the largest Giant-led Band this Age, you can take the Giant token to 
mark that Band and gain 2 Glory. Later on, another player can play a Band 
of 4 Allies with a Giant Leader and take the Giant token away from you for 
their own Band, earning 2 Glory as well.
If you hold the Giant token at the end of the First Age, you earn 2 Glory 
before returning the token to the side of the game board.
TRIBE OF HALFLINGS
The humble folk that make up the 
Tribe of Halflings hardly conjure up 
an image of boldness. No warrior 
would follow these tiny farmers and 
merchants, so they are never seen 
in positions of leader­ship. Yet, many 
a would-be ruler has been surprised 
to look around and find them every­where.
If you choose a Halfling as the Leader of a Band of Allies, you do not 
get to place any Control markers on the board, regardless of the size of 
your Band. However, the Tribe of Halflings is twice the size of any 
other Tribe, making it easier to create larger Bands, which are worth 
more Glory at the end of the Age.
TRIBE OF MERFOLK
If anyone can say what lies beyond the borders of 
the Six Kingdoms, across the waves that surround the 
land, it is the Merfolk. Always, they are searching for 
new discoveries. Those who befriend this inquisitive 
Tribe are often delighted to discover that their friends 
have brought them some trinket from a far-off place—
something no one has ever seen before.
When you use a Merfolk as the Leader of a Band of Allies, in ad­
dition to placing a Control marker (if you can), move your marker on 
the Merfolk board up a number of spaces equal to the number of cards 
in the Band you just played. If you reach or pass a space with a marker 
symbol, you may also place another one of your Control markers on any 
Kingdom, regardless of the size of your Band.
At the end of each Age, the highest-ranking players on the Mer­
folk board earn Glory as if it were its own Kingdom. The Merfolk 
board is never reset, so if a player reaches the last space, their marker 
can no longer be moved.
For Example, if you play a Band of 3 Allies with a green Merfolk Leader, 
you can place a Control marker in Althea (if you had 2 or fewer markers there 
already), and move your Control marker up 3 spaces on the Merfolk board. 
If your token lands on the “3” space, which has a marker symbol, you can 
then place a second Control marker on any Kingdom (not just Althea), even 
a Kingdom where you already have 3 or more tokens.
If your marker on the Merfolk board is the highest at the end of the First 
Age, you gain 1 Glory.

TRIBE OF MINOTAURS
Though their visage is bestial 
and their reputation cruel, the 
Minotaurs of the Six Kingdoms 
are mighty at war and productive 
in peacetime. Their herd-like 
instincts enable them to work 
together, accomplishing much 
more than their numbers would suggest.
If you choose a Minotaur to be the Leader of a Band of Allies, you 
need one less card than normal to place your Control marker in the 
matching Kingdom.
 For example, if you have 3 Control markers in Rhea, you can add a 
fourth mar­ker there by playing a Band with a red Minotaur Leader consist-
ing of just 3 cards.
TRIBE OF ORCS
The most migratory of Tribes, it is 
against the nature of Orcs to remain 
in one place for long. On the one 
hand, it teaches them to dispose of all 
unnecessary possessions. After all, 
who wants to carry furniture you’re 
never going to use? On the other 
hand, it does breed a certain kind of jealousy, and when a 
horde of Orcs grows big enough, they find it hard not to 
“liberate” some pretty things…
If you choose an Orc as the Leader of a Band of Allies, you may 
place one of your Control markers on your Orc Horde board in the 
space that matches the color of your Orc Leader (in addition to any 
Control marker you may be able to place in a Kingdom). You can only 
have one Control marker in each space on your Orc Horde board.
At the end of the Age, you may empty your Orc Horde to have 
them go pillaging. If you do, you score Glory based on the number of 
Control markers you removed, as shown on your Orc Horde board. Or 
you can leave your markers there to try to score higher in a later Age.
For example, if you play a Band of Allies with an orange Orc Leader, 
you can place a Control marker in Ithys (if your Band is large enough) and a 
second marker on the orange space of your Orc Horde board.
If you have a total of 3 markers on your Orc Horde board at the end of any 
Age, you can remove them to earn 6 Glory.
 TRIBE OF SKELETONS
The biggest mystery that surrounds the Tribe 
of Skeletons is where, exactly, they come from. No 
one has ever admitted to animating the remains 
of the dead. And yet, these creatures will happily 
follow anyone that gives them a direction. Sadly, 
despite their loyalty and devotion, without powerful 
magic, Skeletons cannot remain intact, and the chaos 
surrounding the end of an Age always disrupts their 
animation.
Unlike other Tribes, Skeletons can never be the Leader of a Band 
of Allies. But Skeletons are treated as a “wild card”: you can add them 
to any Band regardless of their color or Tribe. They count towards the 
ability of the Leader of their Band and for achieving the necessary 
card number to place your Control marker on a Kingdom, as normal.
However, Skeletons are brittle and can survive only through 
powerful magic. As a result, at the end of every Age, all Skeletons, 
wherever they are, must be discarded before awarding Glory for the 
Bands of Allies.
For example, if you have a Band of 5 Allies that includes 2 Skeletons, at 
the end of the Age those Skeletons are discarded, and you only score Glory for 
the 3 cards left behind.

TRIBE OF TROLLS
The Tribe of Trolls is widely 
feared and respected, mostly due 
to their habit of tearing those who 
disagree with them to pieces. The 
most heated disputes tend to get 
resolved without much contention 
when one of the parties involved 
has a horde of angry Trolls at their side.
When the Leader of your Band of Allies is a Troll, you may take 
any one unclaimed Troll token with a value up to the number of cards 
in the Band you just played. Troll tokens have no value in themselves, 
but they are used to break ties for control of the Kingdoms at the end 
of the Age. The tied player with the highest total value of Troll tokens 
wins the tie. If still tied, the higher numbered Troll token wins the tie. 
At the end of each Age, all Troll tokens are placed back next to the 
main game board for the next Age.
For example, if you play a Band of 4 Allies with a Troll Leader, in ad-
dition to possibly placing a Control marker on a Kingdom, you can take any 
available Troll token with a value of 4 or less. If you are tied for control of a 
Kingdom at the end of the Age, and the total added value of your Troll tokens 
is higher than the other player’s, you win the higher Glory for that Kingdom.
TRIBE OF WINGFOLK
From their mountain aeries, 
the noble Wingfolk soar across the 
Six Kingdoms, always watchful for 
threats to their homes. In times 
of strife, this knowledge ser­ves 
them well: they always know the 
weaknesses of their enemies.
If your Band of Allies is led by a Wingfolk Leader, you may place 
your Control marker in any Kingdom on the game board (your Band 
must still be large enough to play a marker in your chosen Kingdom), 
ignoring the color of your Leader card.
For example, if you play a Band of 3 Allies with a purple Leader, you 
would normally only be able to place a Control marker in Duris. But if that 
Leader is a Wingfolk, you can place your Control marker in any Kingdom 
where you have 2 or fewer Control markers.
 TRIBE OF WIZARDS
None can say from whence the 
Wizards came, only that these 
secretive arcanists have walked 
the Six Kingdoms since the Age of 
Creation and that they know many 
secrets that they do not share. 
When the time is right, though, 
a secret whispered in the right ear can recruit more 
allies than the most bombastic speech.
If a Wizard leads your Band of Allies, after you discard any other 
cards in your hand, you may draw a number of cards from the Allies 
Deck equal to the number of cards in the Band you just played. You 
cannot draw these cards from the face up cards on the table.
For example, if you have 4 cards in your hand and you play a Band of 2 
Allies with a Wizard Leader, after you discard your 2 leftover cards, you can 
draw 2 new cards from the Allies Deck.
 Credits
Game Design: Paolo Mori
Art: John Howe
Graphic Design: Mathieu Harlaut, Thomas Klapper
Development: Fel Barros, Alexandru Olteanu
Rules: William Niebling, Thiago Aranha
Production: Mathieu Harlaut
Publisher: David Preti
Playtesting: Emiliano "Wentufix" Venturini, Francesco Sirocchi, Andrea 
Pecora, Dimitri Fietta, Michele Sommi, Giovanni Melandri, Giovanni Tav-
erna, Luigi Mori, Danilo Bersani, Simone Berti, Lorenzo Allodi, Manuel 
Busi, Andrea Melegari, Luca Chiapponi, Michele Mordacci, Maurizio 
Besacchi, Fabrizio Giuberti, Lorenzo Tucci Sorrentino, Lorenzo Silva, 
Luiz Alvarez, Julia Ferrari, Guilherme Goulart, Lucas Martini, Carolina 
Negrão, Sergio Roma, Renato Sasdelli.
© 2016 CMON Productions Limited. No part of this product may be reproduced 
without specific permission. Ethnos and Spaghetti Western Games are trademarks of 
CMON Productions Limited. CoolMiniOrNot, the CoolMiniOrNot logo and CMON 
logo are trademarks of CMON Global Limited. All rights reserved. Actual components 
may vary from those shown. Made in China
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 
YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.

 Rules Summary
INITIAL SETUP:
• Randomly place Glory tokens in ascending order in each King­
dom (remove 4+ tokens in 2-3 player games).
• Randomly pick 6 Tribes for the game and shuffle the Allies Deck 
(5 Tribes in 2-3 players game).
BEGINNING A NEW AGE:
• Each player draws 1 Ally card.
• Place a number of face-up Ally cards next to the board equal to 
twice the number of players.
 • Shuffle the 3 Dragon cards into the bottom half of the Allies 
Deck.
• Determine First Player. Random on First Age. Player with the 
least Glory on Second and Third Age (tiebreaker: player closest to the 
3rd Dragon card drawn).
PLAYING THROUGH AN AGE:
Players take turns in clockwise order. On their turn, players do 
one of these:
• Recruit One Ally
Draw an Ally card either from the face-up cards, or from the 
Allies Deck (max hand size: 10 cards).
If a Dragon card is drawn, place it face up next to the board 
and drawn another card.
OR
• Play a Band of Allies
Lay down a group of 1 to 10 Ally cards in front of you, either of 
the same color, or of the same Tribe. 
Choose one of those cards to be the Leader, placing it on top 
of the Band.
If the Kingdom matching the color of that Leader has fewer 
Control markers of your color than the number of cards in 
this Band, you may add one of your Control markers to that 
Kingdom.
 Only the ability described on the Leader card may be used.
Any cards left in your hand must be discarded face up next to 
the board for players to recruit on their turn.
END OF AN AGE
When the third Dragon card is drawn, the Age immediately ends. 
Players with the most Control markers in each Kingdom earn Glory.
• First Age: Player with most Control markers earns the Glory in­
dicated in the “I” space of the Kingdom.
• Second Age: Most Control markers earns the “II” space. Second 
most earns the “I” space (in a 2-player game, the second player gets 
no Glory, and the first gets both “I” and “II” if there are no opposing 
Control markers in the Kingdom).
•Third Age: Most Control markers earns the “III” space. Second 
most earns the “II” space, and third most earns the “I” space.
• If there is a tie, players add together the Glory rewards and 
divide it equally (rounded down).
Players earn Glory for each Band of Allies they played, according 
to their size (as indicated on the corner of the board).
Discard all Ally cards, both from players' hands and from played 
Bands. Shuffle them into a new deck.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends after the Third Age is played (in a 2-3 player game, 
it ends after the Second Age).
The player with the most Glory is the winner!