Rulebook

A
A
b
b
180°
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demon Throne
 2 each time you spend an 
amount of Mana during the 
Action Phase.
Coven: 1 and 
 
from that Ritual 
to any Region.
 
1 Victory Point and Mana Track
4 Victory Point Tiles
2 Clan Tiles
(double sided)
4 Cats
34 Catalysts: Crystals
9 Battle Bonus Tiles
6 Powerstones
22 Places of Power
4 Clan Token
4 Player Aids
30 Rituals
2 Starting 
Places
8 Witches
8 Elders
8 Markers
2 Mana Dials
24 Specialists 
/Council 
Members
2 Clan Boards:
1 Crystal Path

 
Demon Throne
 2 each time you spend an 
amount of Mana during the 
Action Phase.
Coven: 1 and 
 
from that Ritual 
to any Region.
 
The content of this expansion offers you several possibilities to expand the base game 
of Evenfall. The following elements can be directly integrated into the base game in any 
combination. These elements do not require any additional rules explanation:
Battle Bonus Tiles: Each Battle Bonus Tile is associated with a specific Region (see the back of the 
tile) and is marked with a 
 or 
 symbol. Shuffle all tiles with the 
 Symbol and flip one 
at random for each Region, thus covering the Battle Bonuses printed on the Region Board. These 
tiles remain on the Region Boards for the entire game.
Battle Bonus Tiles with the 
 symbol can only be used when playing with the Crystal Path.
Victory Point and Mana Track: Instead of the Victory Point and Mana 
Track from the base game you can use the new track from this expansion. 
Each player places a Marker on space 0 of the Victory Point Track (0 to 
49) and another Marker on space 0 of the Mana Track (0 to 20). The 
remaining Marker is only used when playing with the Crystal Path. If you 
are not playing with the Crystal Path, return the fourth Marker to the box. 
Place all eight Victory Point Tiles on the field below the round overview.
Use the Round Marker from the base game.
Places of Power, Rituals and Specialists: All cards from this expansion are marked with either 
 or 
 . Cards marked with 
 can simply be shuffled in the corresponding decks during setup, regardless of whether you are playing with the Crystal 
Path or not. You can find an explanation of the new card effects on page 10. Cards marked with 
 can be shuffled in the 
corresponding decks only if you are playing with the Crystal Path (see «The Crystal Path» on page 6).
Additionally to the Clans of the 
base game, you can play the Clans 
The Wave and The Horn using the 
corresponding game components 
from this expansion. You can find 
an explanation of the Moon Side 
abilities of the new Clans on page 4.

Throne Demon
Setup: Put a Misty Castle with 
Binding Bonus in your Inner Circle.
ROUND END 
Remove the 
attached 
Specialist: 
The Demon 
Throne gains 
the ability of 
the attached 
Specialist.
Specialist
Setup: Draw
until you find three Rituals 
with a 
 effect with different names. 
Put those Rituals in your hand. 
Shuffle the rest back into the deck.
Misty Castle
«The Wave» or «The Horn» Clans can be played with the sun or the moon side both with the base game or with the Crystal 
Path. The sun side is identical to the Clans from the base game. When playing with the moon side, these Clans have the 
following unique rules and asymmetrical abilities.
The Wave - Difficulty level: Medium
(1) During the Scout Phase, draw five cards from the Main Deck and gain two Knowledge, one 
Herb and two Mana.
(2) When activating your Clan Token, harvest all Places of Power in your Outer Circle, then 
you may perform a Transfer (Transfers are always optional).
(3) As a Free Action, you may spend one Herb to replace the Immediate Effect symbol of a 
Ritual with an Action Space. You may then activate the effect of that Ritual by placing a Witch 
or an Elder (following standard rules) on its Immediate Effect symbol as if it were an Action 
Space. The effect of the Ritual is not considered an Immediate Effect for this turn.
(4) The Coven Track is different from the one of the sun side. It grants you only cards, Mana 
and victory points.
(5) The cost of your Council Members is identical to the sun side.
(6) Your Starting Place has no Binding Bonus but contains information regarding setup. 
Before the first round, draw cards from the Main Deck until you draw three Rituals with 
an Immediate Effect and different names. Keep these Rituals in your hand and shuffle the 
remaining cards back in the Main Deck.
The Horn - Difficulty level: High
(1) During the Scout Phase, draw seven cards from the Main Deck and gain two 
Knowledge.
(2) When activating your Clan Token, harvest all Places of Power in your Outer 
Circle and gain one Mana for each Specialist in your Coven, including the Throne 
Demon – see below.
(3) During setup, place the Throne Demon as a Specialist and a Misty Castle with 
Binding Bonus in your Coven as depicted. Each time you play a Specialist, you may 
attach the Throne Demon to it. If a Specialist is already attached, you may replace 
it. The Throne Demon gains the ability of the attached Specialist. This means, for 
example, if that Specialist would allow you to draw a card each time you advance on 
the Coven Track, the Throne Demon would allow you to draw a second card. If the 
Specialist has an Exhaust ability, you may exhaust the Throne Demon for the same 
ability also on a subsequent turn. In this case, turn the Throne Demon by 90 degrees 
to show that you activated it. 
During Round End, remove the Specialist attached to the Throne Demon and gain 
two victory points, one Herb and one Potion. Put the removed Specialist back in the 
box.
(4) On the Coven Track you can find a horn symbol. Each time you reach a step 
with this symbol, you may attach the Throne Demon to a different Specialist. If the 
Throne Demon is exhausted, ready it.
(5) The cost of your Council Members is identical to the sun side.
Moon Side: The Wave and The Horn

 
Gain a Powerstone from any 
Region, then 1 for each 
Powerstone you have.
Coven: 2 and 
 from 
that Ritual to 
any Region.
Ritual
Earth Sigil
Artifact - Enchantment - Familiar
 
 for each 
 
in you Coven. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When playing with The Crystal Path, follow the setup instructions of the base game, then follow these additional setup steps.
Additional setup for a game with the Crystal Path
The Crystal Path
Take the Victory Point and Mana Track 
from this expansion as well as the Crystal 
Path and place them above the Region 
boards. Each player places a Marker of their 
player color:
-on space 0 of the Victory Point track.
-on space 0 of the Mana Track.
-on the left of the Crystal Path.
Place the Round Marker on the 1 first 
space of the Round Track.
Place all eight Victory Point Tiles below 
the Round Track.
Shuffle all cards with the 
 and 
 symbol in the 
corresponding decks (Rituals 
and Specialists in the Main 
Deck, Places of Power in the 
Deck of Places).
Draw 4 cards from the Main 
Deck and place them face up 
below the Crystal Path.
For each player, take a Cat and a 
random Powerstone. Place the Cats 
on the second reward space and the 
Powerstones on the third reward 
space of the Crystal Path.
Place the Crystals near the other Catalysts 
in the general supply.
Replace the Player Aids from the base 
game with the Player Aids from this 
expansion.
Shuffle all Battle Bonus Tiles face down. For each Region, choose a 
matching Battle Bonus Tile (see the back of the tiles) at random and 
place it face up covering the printed Battle Bonuses. These tiles remain 
on the Region Boards for the entire game.

Rules for games with the Crystal Path
I Play a card from the Crystal Path
II Build a Crystal
As an action on your turn, you may play a card from the Crystal Path. To do so, pay the resources indicated in its cost 
to the general supply and place the card in the corresponding area of your Coven, following the rules of the base game. 
However, depending on the position of your Marker on the Crystal Path, you may have to pay additional resources. At 
the beginning of the game, your Marker starts to the left of the Crystal Path. If you want to play the first card (from 
the left), you must pay one additional resource of your choice. If you wish to play the second card on the Crystal Path, 
you must pay two additional resources and so on. Cards from the Crystal Path may be played as Rituals, Specialists or 
Council Members.
As you ascend up the Crystal Path during the game (see Ascend up the Crystal Path), you may play the cards below your 
current step and from the steps to its left without any additional cost. The additional costs therefore, must only be paid 
for cards that are further along the Crystal Path compared to the position of your Marker.
After playing a card from the Crystal Path, slide all remaining cards to the left, then draw a new card from the Main 
Deck and place it face up in the resulting empty space on the right. Therefore, at the end of your turn, all the spaces of 
the display below the Crystal Path must be filled.
The first two steps of the Crystal Path show the Round End symbol followed by a red X. These symbols indicate that, 
during Round End, you must discard the two leftmost cards from the Crystal Path. Slide all remaining cards to the left 
and refill the resulting empty spaces with new cards from the Main Deck.
When building Catalysts, you may build Scythes and Orbs as in the base game. Now, you may also build Crystals as 
Catalysts. To build a Crystal, spend one Knowledge to the general supply and place a Crystal with the discharged “dark” 
side face up on a free Building Space in your Coven.
As in the base game,the game is over after three rounds and each round is divided into Scout Phase,Action Phase, Battle 
Phase and Round End. During the Action Phase,players have three new actions available (see also the Player Aids):
I 	
Play a card from the Crystal Path
II 	
Build a Crystal
III 	
Ascend up the Crystal Path
Example: Catalina plays the second card from 
the Crystal Path. The card costs two Herbs 
and two Potions. Since her Marker is still to 
the left of the Crystal Path, she must pay two 
additional resources of her choice. She chooses 
to spend additional two Herbs. After spending 
a total of four Herbs and two Potions, she 
slides all cards from the right to the left and 
then refills the last space with a new card from 
the Main Deck. She places the selected Ritual 
on a Place of Power in her Outer Circle and 
performs its Immediate Effect.

Crystals help you ascend up the Crystal Path. To do so however, they must first be charged. All Rituals with an action 
space have the ability to charge Crystals. After activating the action space of a Ritual, charge all Crystals that are placed 
on that Ritual and its Place of Power. There are also certain bonuses or card effects that may allow you to charge Crystals. 
These effects allow you to also charge Crystals that are not placed on Rituals with action spaces.
During setup, you placed your Marker to the left of the Crystal Path. As an action, you may ascend your Marker up the 
Crystal Path by discharging the required amount of Crystals from your Coven, thus moving your Marker to the next 
step. If there is already a Marker there, place your Marker to its left. After ascending, you immediately gain the bonus 
indicated above. All bonuses of the Crystal Path are explained on page 8.
If you already reached the last step of the Crystal Path, you can still use the action «Ascend up the 
Crystal Path» by spending two charges to gain two Victory Points and one Transfer. Your Marker 
does not ascend in this case - even if other Markers are in front of you. You can use this action any 
number of times by discharging two Crystals.
Ties during the Battle Phase:
Ascending up the Crystal Path also gives you an advantage in the Battle Phase. In case of a tie during a battle, the player 
who spent the most Mana wins the tie. If there is still a tie, the tied player whose Marker is furthest ahead on the Crystal 
Path wins the battle.
With this action, you may ascend exactly one step on the Crystal Path, even if you have sufficient charged Crystals to 
ascend multiple steps.
Each time an effect grants you a Crystal symbol with 
the green arrow, you can charge one Crystal anywhere 
in your Coven.
The Crystal symbol with the red arrow means that, as a 
cost, you must discharge any Crystal in your Coven.
Discharged Crystal
Charged Crystal
Example: (1) Catalina activates the action space of a Ritual, 
where she previously built Crystals. (2) She performs the effect 
of the Ritual. She chooses to gain four Mana and moves an Elder 
from another Ritual to this one. (3) She charges all Crystals on 
this Place of Power. In this case, she flips the Crystal on the 
Ritual and the Crystal on its Place of Power to their charged 
“glowing” side.
Example: Catalina wants to ascend up the Crystal Path. She flips a charged 
Crystal in her Coven to the discharged side and moves her Marker to the first 
step of the Crystal Path. As a reward for the first step, she immediately draws 
one card from the Crystal Path to her hand.
III Ascend up the Crystal Path

Moon Steppes
Gain 
 equal to the 
 value of the 
bound Ritual
Draw any
from the Crystal Path
Burning Boneyard
Ritual
Earth Sigil
Artifact - Enchantment - Familiar
 
 for each 
 
in you Coven. 
Wind Eagle
 Each time you 
build a Catalyst in 
this Circle: 1 
Ascending up the Crystal Path will grant you the following bonuses:
The first step of the Crystal Path allows you to draw any card from the Crystal path, without paying additional 
costs, directly to your hand. Do not forget to refill the Crystal Path afterwards.
The second step of the Crystal Path awards you a Cat and two Victory Points. Choose one 
of your Witches and put the Cat on her hat. From this moment on, that Witch counts as 
two Witches. The Witch with the Cat therefore has the ability to discover Places of Power 
that would normally require two Witches. Furthermore, this Witch has a combat strength 
of two during Battles.
The third step grants you three Victory Points and allows you to choose one of the Powerstones there. If you 
are the first to reach this step, you will have more choice. Powerstones from the Crystal Path have the same 
effect as the Powerstones from the base game. 
The fourth step of the Crystal Path gives a new ability to all Crystals in your Coven. Each Crystal on a Place 
of Power or a Ritual increases the Victory Point Value of the associated Ritual by “1” during final scoring. It 
does not matter whether the Crystal is charged or not. Those additional Victory Points will therefore also be 
doubled by a matching Powerstone. See the example below.
Example: Catalina has reached the 
last step of the Crystal Path. Each 
Crystal now increases the Victory 
Point Value of the associated Ritual 
by one. Therefore, for these three 
Rituals she will gain Victory Points 
as follows:
(1) 6 Victory Points for the Horned 
Serpent (4 + 2 Crystals)
(2) 6 Victory Points for Earth 
Sigil (2 + 1 = 3, doubled by the 
Powerstone = 6)
(3) 6 Victory Points for Wind 
Eagle (1 + 2 = 3, doubled by the 
Powerstone = 6)
Therefore, she gains a total of 18 
Victory Points for these three 
Rituals.

Automa
Automa with the Crystal Path
Automa Clan Tiles
In a solo game against the Automa, follow these changes when playing with the Crystal Path.
Setup: Firstly, follow the setup steps of the base game, then the additional setup for the Crystal Path. Finally, place one 
of the Markers of the Automa on the second step of the Crystal Path.
Rules: Each time the Automa must «play the top card», the Automa instead plays the card with the highest Victory 
Point Value within its Reach from the Crystal Path. If multiple cards are tied for the highest Victory Point Value, the 
Automa plays the leftmost card among those. Within Reach of the Automa are any of the cards below and to the left 
of its current step on the Crystal Path. During round one, the Automa will therefore play cards from the two leftmost 
steps of the Crystal Path.
During Round End, after advancing the Round Marker, advance the Marker of the Automa on the Crystal Path by one 
step as well. During the second round, the Marker will therefore be on the third step of the Crystal Path and, in the third 
round, on the fourth. The Automa does not gain any Bonus when ascending up the Crystal Path.
Tip: Try to play cards with high Victory Point Values from the Crystal Path, before the Automa plays them.
As a variant, during setup you may choose a Clan Tile for the Automa (you must select a different Clan Tile to the 
one you have chosen). Assign Witches and Markers of the corresponding color to the Automa. Clan Tiles give a special 
ability to the Automa that will make it stronger.
Each time the Automa harvests or gains six Victory Points from 
the Coven Track, the Automa also gains two Victory Points for 
each Elder in your reserve. When playing against «The Circle», try 
to use your Elders as soon as possible.
The Clan Tile of «The Spike» gives the Automa one additional 
combat strength in each battle during the Battle Phase. 
Additionally, the Automa will gain three Victory Points for each 
Powerstone it has at the end of the game. When playing against this 
ability, try to win as many battles as possible.
At Round End, the Automa gains Victory Points equal to the 
difference between your and its position on the Coven Track. 
Example: If your Marker at Round End is still on the first step of 
the Coven Track and the Automa’s is on the fifth step, the Automa 
will gain four Victory Points. When playing against «The Cross», try 
to advance on the Coven Track as quickly as possible.
Each time you discard one or more cards, the Automa gains 
two Victory Points. When playing against «The Star», try not to 
discard cards too often.

 
Moon Steppes
Gain 
 equal to the 
 value of the 
bound Ritual
 
Sky Bison
Each time you 
build a Catalyst 
here, you may:
Rituals
New card effects in detail
Places of Power
The Crystal Cliffs have a Building 
Space for a Catalyst. This Building 
Space follows the same rules as the 
Building Space of a Ritual.
When playing with the Crystal 
Path, you may build a Crystal here 
as well. This Crystal may then be 
charged following the normal rules 
- for example by playing a Ritual 
with an action space here and 
activating it.
To discover the Lost Tower, you 
must spend one Witch and one of 
any resource. The spent resource is 
not returned to the general supply, 
but placed on the empty space below 
the harvest symbol of this card. From 
this moment on, this Places of Power 
produces that type of resource. That 
resource remains on this Place of 
Power for the rest of the game. When 
harvesting this Place of Power with 
effects such as «Thunderbird Staff», it 
produces a resource of your choice. 
Some card effects in this expansion have a lock space. As a free action on your turn, you 
may place a Powerstone on a Ritual with this space. The Powerstone must not necessarily 
match the symbol of its Place of Power. However, the Powerstone will only double the 
Victory Points of the Ritual during final scoring if these symbols match. After placing a 
Powerstone on the lock space, that Powerstone may not be moved for the rest of the game. 
In the case of Rituals with action spaces, a locked Powerstone enhances the effect of its action 
space when activating it. For Rituals with Immediate Effects, locking a Powerstone allows you 
to reactivate that Immediate Effect. 
Example: The action space of the Toll Mask grants you three Victory Points for spending one 
Herb and one Mana. If you have locked a Powerstone on it however, in addition to the three 
Victory Points, you will gain one Victory Point for each Powerstone you have. All Powerstones 
count for this effect, regardless if locked or still in your reserve. The Powerstone on the Toll 
Mask counts for this effect as well.
The Sky Bison has Building Spaces for up to three Catalysts (1). Each Bulding Space 
however is reserved for a specific Catalyst. Therefore, if you wish to build multiple 
Catalysts here, they must all be different. Each time you build a Catalyst on this card, 
you may use its ongoing effect (2): Spend two Mana to charge a Crystal. 
The effect of this card is also activated when building a Catalyst on it using the effect of 
another card. 
If you have played this Ritual on the Crystal Cliffs, the ongoing effect (2) is activated 
also when you build a Catalyst on the Building Space of the Crystal Cliffs (3). 

FAQs
Clarifications regarding card effects 
Rituals from the base game
Rituals from the Crystal Path
Summoning Circle: You may use this effect to play a Ritual from 
the Crystal Path for free and without additional costs. This effect 
allows you to play for free any Ritual that you would be allowed to 
play by spending resources. This includes Rituals from the Crystal 
Path, regardless of your Ascension.
Spacial Distortion: You may play this Ritual from the Crystal Path 
by spending Mana instead of resources. You cannot, however, use 
Mana to pay for the additional costs resulting from your Ascension. 
Thought Consumption: Zaya Herdcaller (Immediate Effect) 
- If you discard «Zaya» with «Thought Consumption», you 
gain the Immediate Effect. Traveler’s Wind: If you discard 
«Traveler’s Wind» with «Thought Consumption», you gain its 
Immediate Effect. This means, you may activate action spaces 
adjacent to «Thought Consumptions» using Elders.
Arcane Eye: If the opponent’s marker is on the second to last step of 
the Coven Track, you gain the bonus of the last step and two Victory 
Points. When playing against the Automa, you must choose your 
own Coven Track.
Earth Sigil: Pay one Knowledge to gain two Victory Points and charge 
any Crystal in your Coven. If you locked a Powerstone on this Ritual, 
also gain one Mana for each Crystal in your Coven.
Flaming Oracle: Choose any Ritual/Specialist from the Crystal Path 
and play it in your Clan for free. Your Ascension on the Crystal Path 
does not matter for this effect, so you don’t need to pay additional 
costs. You may not play a Council Member this way.
Sky Bison: The ongoing effect of this card is triggered also when 
building a Catalyst on this Ritual thanks to the effect of another 
card.
Horned Serpent: Gain four Mana or two resources, then move exactly 
one Witch/Elder from another Ritual on this card. If you freed an 
action space this way, you may activate it again on a subsequent turn.
Haunted Claw: Move this Ritual including Witches/Elders and 
Catalysts placed on it, to a free Place of Power. You may move the 
Ritual from the Outer to the Inner Circle, or vice versa. Moving this 
ritual triggers Binding Bonuses, if the new Place of Power has one. 
The effect of Scythes apply when harvesting with this effect.
Traveler’s Wind: This Immediate Effect is active for the entire round, 
in which the Ritual was played. You are not allowed to change the 
order of Places of Power. When you lock a Powerstone to this Ritual, 
you gain this Immediate Effect again until the end of the current 
round.
Sapphire Goat: Each player may perform a Transfer, including 
yourself. For each player who performed a Transfer this way 
(including yourself), you gain three Victory Points. When you lock a 
Powerstone to this Ritual, gain this Immediate Effect again.
Sympathethic Resonance: Spend one Potion and one Mana to gain 
one Victory Point for each Catalyst in your Clan of the type you have 
built the most of. 
Thunderbird Staff: Replenish the empty spaces of a Region with 
Places of Power. Choose and harvest two of those Places of Power. 
If you locked a Powerstone to this Ritual, gain also the 6+ Battle 
Reward of that Region. If you should harvest a Lost Tower with this 
effect, you gain one resource of your choice.
Toll Mask: Spend one Herb and one Mana to gain three Victory 
Points. If you locked a Powerstone to this Ritual, gain also one 
Victory Point for each of your Powerstones, regardless whether they 
are in your reserve or locked on a Ritual. The Powerstone on the Toll 
Mask counts as well.
Underworld Drum: When you build a Catalyst ignoring Building 
Spaces, simply place that Catalyst on the Ritual besides the Building 
Space. Even if the Building Space is still free, the Catalyst built with 
this effect is not placed on it.
Wind Eagle: Each time you build a Catalyst in the Circle (row) where 
the Wind Eagle is played, gain one Victory Point. The Catalysts you 
build on this Ritual count as well.
The Horn: The effect of some Specialists does not double when copied with the Throne Demon. Here’s the list of these 
Specialists: - Keir, Master Illusionist - Naiche, Great Storm - Nora, Will Forger - Oyuun, the First Mother - Quand, Potion 
Master - Shandiin, Wise Feather
The Spike: When playing with the Moon Side, Powerstones placed on bonus spaces of the player board may only be moved on 
Rituals during final scoring. Therefore, these Powerstones may not be used to activate the «lock space» of a Ritual.
Powerstones on lock spaces: If you remove a ritual with a locked Powerstone (with «Pendant of Renewal» for example), that 
Powerstone is removed and placed back in the box.

© 2023 Nanox Games e.U.
Waldwiese 6/23
2540 Bad Voeslau
Austria
www.nanox.games
Design: Stefano Di Silvio 
Art & Graphic Design: 
Martin Mottet 
Development: Tino Jokic
Rulebook Version 1.0
Specialists from the Crystal Path
Adelina, Shapeshifter: Copy the Exhaust effect of a 
Specialist in any Coven. Each opponent gains two Mana. 
If does not matter if the Specialist you are copying is 
exhausted or not. This effect does not change the status of 
the copied card. 
Council Member - End Game: Gain three Victory Points 
for each Ritual in your Coven with more than one Catalyst. 
Catalysts on Places of Power count as well, as if they were 
on the Ritual. 
Council Member - Ongoing Effect: Gain three Victory 
Points each time you discover a Place of Power that costs 
more than one Witch. Discovering a Lost Tower activates 
this effect.
Bogomil, Great Ritualist: Take an unoccupied Ritual or 
Specialist that you already played back to your hand. Gain 
one Victory Point, draw one card and gain one Knowledge 
from the general supply. The card you took back in your 
hand may be played again in a future turn. If you freed a 
Place of Power this way, its Binding Bonus may be activated 
again. Catalysts that were placed on that Ritual are returned 
to the general supply, locked Powerstones are returned to 
the box. 
Council Member - End Game: Gain five Victory Points 
for each pair of Ritual and Specialist with keyword 
Enchantment in your Coven. 
Council Member - Clan Token: Gain two Victory Points for 
each Witch and Elder placed on Rituals in your Coven.
Iliya and the Hound: Each time you Ascend up the Crystal 
Path, advance on the Coven Track. If you already reached 
the end of the Coven Track, gain two Victory Points instead. 
each set of Scythe, Orb and Crystal in your Coven. Catalysts 
on Places of Power count as well for this scoring efect. 
Council Member - Ongoing effect: Each time you exhaust a 
card to activate its effect, gain two Victory Points.
Master Anangikwe: Spend three Mana to replace up to 
two Catalysts in your Coven with different Catalysts of 
your choice. Replacing Catalysts with this effect counts 
as building Catalysts for cards such as Sky Bison or Wind 
Eagle. 
Council Member - End Game: Gain two Victory Points for 
each ongoing effect in your Coven, i.e. on Rituals, Specialist 
or Council Members. The symbol printed in this effect does 
not count, as this is an End Game effect. 
Council Member - Round End: Gain two Victory Points for 
each Elder that is not in your Inner Circle. Elders in your 
reserve do not count. The Elders must be either in your 
Outer Circle, in a Region or in an opponent’s Coven, for 
example on an opponent’s Specialist.
Naiche, Great Storm: Each time you play a card from the 
Crystal Path, you may discard cards from your hand as if 
they were a resource of your choice. 
Council Member - End Game: Gain one Victory Points for 
each Place of Power and each Ritual in your Inner Circle. 
Council Member - Round End: Gain four Victory Points for 
each Ritual in your Coven with a locked Powerstone.
Ohiyesa, Bound to Power: Each time you play a card with 
Victory Point Value of three or higher, gain a Transfer and 
draw two cards from the Main Deck. Reminder: Transfers 
are always optional. 
each pair of Ritual and Specialist with keyword Familiar in 
your Coven. 
Council Member - Ongoing effect: Each time you play a 
Ritual without an action space, gain Victory Points equal to 
the Victory Point Value of that Ritual.
Shandiin, Wise Feather: Rituals with a Victory Point Value 
of three or higher have an additional Building Space for a 
Crystal. 
Council Member - End Game: Gain three Victory Points for 
each Council Member in your Coven. This Council Member 
counts as well. 
Council Member - Ongoing Effect: Each time you Ascend 
up the Crystal Path, gain Victory Points equal to the 
number of steps you have reached. If you reached the end 
of the Crystal Path, you can still Ascend and activate this 
effect, however your marker does not move.
Solongo of the Silver Moon: Each time you exhaust a card 
to activate its effect, harvest a Place of Power in any Region. 
If you decide to harvest a Lost Tower, gain a resource of 
your choice. 
each pair of Ritual and Specialist with keyword Artifact in 
your Coven. 
Council Member - Ongoing effect: Each time you would 
gain a Binding Bonus, you may replace its effect with «Gain 
five Victory Points».
Tayanita, Bird Queen: Discard one to three cards from your 
hand, then draw one to three cards and gain one to three 
Mana. 
Council Member - End Game: Copy the End Game effect of 
one of the Specialists you played in your Coven. 
Council Member - Round End: Gain two Victory Points for 
each Specialist and each Ritual in your Coven with Victory 
Point Value of three or higher.
Zaya, Herdcaller: Remove a Ritual from your Coven. Put 
that Ritual in the discard pile and all Catalysts (if any) back 
in the general supply. Gain two Victory Points and move 
all Witches/Elders from the removed Ritual to a Region of 
your choice. 
Council Member - Immediate Effect: Gain a Powerstone of 
your choice from any Region, then gain one Victory Point 
for each Powerstone you have. 
Council Member- Ongoing Effect: Gain two Victory Points 
each time you spend Mana during the Action Phase. For 
example, when playing a card or as a cost to activate an 
effect.