THE GAME IN A NUTSHELL 
In Evergreen, your goal is to make your Planet become as 
lush as possible. Each round, you pick a Biome card from 
the common pool to determine where on your Planet you’ll 
be able to plant your Sprouts or grow them into Trees 
during the round.
The card you pick also grants you a special power, 
giving you more growth opportunities or other Planet 
enhancements. The unchosen cards are as important as the 
chosen ones, though: they determine the Fertility of each 
Biome for the final scoring, driving the choice of where you 
want to grow your biggest Trees.
 
Keep in mind the position of the Sun and prevent your Trees 
from shading each other… Light is vital for plants, but also 
a big source of points! You also get points for your biggest 
Forest, so try to keep them close.
At the end of the last Season, the game is over. 
The player with the lushest Planet wins!
COMPONENTS
45 Sprouts
54 Small Trees
61 Big Trees
20 Bush pawns
20 Lake pawns
4 Sun markers
36 cylinder markers
1 First Player token
Flowers Biome
Rock Biome
Grassland Biome
Wheat Biome
Swamp Biome
Snow Biome
Wild Biome
42 Biome cards (6 for each Biome)
4 Planet boards

E
Board setup
Give 1 Planet board to each player. Place your Planet 
board in front of you.
Place 1 cylinder marker at the beginning of each Power 
Track at the top of your board A , i.e., in the spaces with 
a green background.
Place 1 cylinder marker at the beginning of the 
Score Track surrounding your planet 
B and 1 
cylinder marker at the beginning of the 50+ Points 
Track at the top-right of your board C .	
 
Place 1 cylinder marker in the topmost space of the 
Season Track at the bottom-left of your board D . 
 
Place 1 Sun marker in the half-circle space at the top of 
your board E . The players can agree to have the sun 
start from a different position.
Randomly determine a first player. They receive the First 
Player token.
Starting with the First Player and going clockwise, 
each 
player 
gains 
points based on their 
turn order position, 
as shown to the right. 
Track 
these 
points 
by 
advancing 
the 
cylinder 
marker 
on 
your Score Track.
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
TURN ORDER
POINTS
3Pt.
SETUP

Common Area Setup
Shuffle the Biome cards and place them as a face-down 
deck in the middle of the table, in reach of all players F . 
Reserve an area near the Biome Deck to place a 
discard pile G .
Reserve another area of the table visible to all players 
for the Fertility Zone H : cards placed there during the 
game will determine the final scoring (see page 15).
Reveal cards from the top of the deck until at least 5 
 icons are present among them.
Put the cards with Fertility 
 icons face up on the table 
in the Fertility Zone H . Keep these cards in separate 
stacks, one for each Biome, making sure that all Fertility 
 icons on each card are always visible.
All the other cards, that is the ones without Fertility 
 
icons, must be shuffled back into the deck.
FERTILITY ZONE
BIOME DECK
1.
3.
2.
4.
5.
In this example, after the 3rd card is revealed, only 4 
 are shown on the cards, so 
you need to keep revealing cards. The 4th card only shows a 
 icon, while the 5th 
has 2 
, bringing the total to 6 
. The threshold of 5 has been exceeded, so you 
can stop revealing cards. Cards 1, 3 and 5 are moved to the Fertility Zone H , while 
cards 2 and 4 are shuffled back into the Biome deck.
shuffle back into the deck
put into 
Fertility Zone
H
G
DISCARD PILE
F

GAME OVERVIEW
A game of Evergreen is played over 4 Seasons, each divided 
into a fixed number of rounds which decreases from Season 
to Season: 5 rounds in Spring, 4 rounds in Summer, 3 rounds 
in Autumn, and 2 rounds in Winter.
Each round is composed of 3 phases:
1.	 Draft: During this phase, you will pick a Biome card from 
the pool to determine which Biome and which Power you 
will be developing this round.
2.	 Actions and Powers: During this phase, you will 
perform your Action for the round; additionally, you 
will activate the Power determined by your Biome card. 
3.	 End of Round: During this phase, you will verify if another 
round must be started, or if the current Season is over. 
At the end of each Season, you earn points for the amount of 
Light collected by your Trees and for the size of your biggest 
Forest (see page 14), then you prepare for the next Season.
At the end of the last Season, the game is over. You calculate 
your score for that Season, then you also calculate your end 
game score by adding the points obtained for the Fertility of 
the Biomes on your Planet (see page 15).
The player with the most points is the winner!
G
F
H
This is the full setup for a game with 4 players.

1.2 Pick cards
Starting with the first player and going clockwise, each 
player picks 1 card from the drafting pool and places it in 
front of themselves.
After picking their card, the first player must also place the 
First Player token on the leftmost card of the drafting pool, 
the one that is closest to the deck.
If you pick the card with the First Player token on it, you 
also take the token and get to be the first player for the next 
round. If no one picks the card with the First Player token 
by the end of the Draft Phase, the token goes back to the 
current first player.
THE GAME ROUND
If at any time the Biome deck is empty, shuffle all 
the cards from the discard pile and form a new 
Biome deck. 
NOTE: Do not remove any cards from the Fertility 
Zone, nor any of the cards from the player 
areas while doing so.
Empty Deck
1. Draft
1.1 Create the drafting pool
Draw a number of cards from the deck equal to the number 
of players +1, then place them face up on the table next to 
each other, to the right of the deck. This will be the drafting 
pool for the current round.
Basil is the first player and chooses the Wild Biome 
card. Then, he must place the First Player token on 
the Snow Biome card, which is the leftmost card 
still on the table.
In a game with 3 players, you must draw 4 cards 
from the Biome deck during the Draft Phase.

1.3 Clean Up
Once each player has taken their Biome card for the round, 
exactly 1 unchosen card will be left in the pool. Depending 
on the type of icon shown at the top of this card, perform 
one of the following:
FERTILITY 
 : Place the card in the Fertility Zone. 
Remember to keep the cards in separate stacks, one for 
each Biome, making sure that all Fertility 
 icons on each 
card are always visible. The sum of all icons in a stack will 
determine the Fertility 
 of that Biome at the end of the 
game (see page 15).
ARIDITY 
: Flip the the latest card added to the stack 
of the corresponding Biome in the Fertility Zone and place 
the Aridity card on top of it. The face-down card no longer 
contributes to the Biome Fertility. If there is no card to be 
flipped, just place the Aridity card in the Fertility Zone and 
no other effect is triggered.
NO ICON: Place the card in the discard pile.
During the Draft Phase, a Snow Biome Aridity 
 card is left unchosen 
A . The latest card added to the Snow Biome stack in the Fertility 
Zone B must be flipped and the Aridity 
 card must be placed on 
top of that stack C .

2.1 Perform your Action
You must perform 1 Action each round. Your Action must 
be applied to the Biome shown on the card that you picked 
during the Draft Phase.
There are 4 possible Actions, each consisting of a different 
combination of these 2 effects:
 Plant Sprout: Place 1 Sprout treeple from the pool in an 
empty space on your Planet board.
 Generic Growth: Replace either a Sprout treeple 
on your Planet board with a Small 
Tree treeple from the pool A OR 
a Small Tree treeple on your Planet 
board with a Big Tree treeple from the 
pool B .
2. Actions and Powers
During this phase, all players simultaneously perform their Action for the round and may use a bonus Power. The card you 
picked during the Draft Phase will tell you which Biome you must perform your Action in and which Power you can activate. 
 Plant Sprout
 Generic Growth
You can never directly grow a Sprout into a Big Tree, or replace any Tree with a Sprout. 
IMPORTANT!

The available Actions are:
 : Apply up to 3 Plant Sprout effects.
 
 : Apply up to 2 Generic Growth effects in different 
spaces of your Planet board (so you can’t grow a 
Sprout into a Small tree, then immediately grow 
that Small Tree into a Big Tree).
 
C 
 : Apply up to 1 Plant Sprout effect AND up to 1 
Generic Growth effect in different spaces of your 
Planet board (so you can’t plant a Sprout, then 
immediately grow that Sprout into a Small Tree).
 
D 
 : Ignore the Biome restriction of the card 
you picked during the Draft Phase and 
apply either 1 Plant Sprout effect OR 1 
Generic Growth effect on any 1 space of 
your Planet board.
You can find a reminder of the available Actions in the lower 
right corner of your Planet board.
There are four Crevice spaces on your Planet, 
identified by a dashed border. You cannot 
place any pawn on these spaces. Crevices are 
considered regular spaces only during the Light 
scoring for distance purposes (see page 13).
Sprouts, Small Trees, and Big Trees are to be 
considered infinite. In the unlikely event that you 
find yourself with no treeples in the pool, feel 
free to use substitute items.
CREVICES
INFINITE TREES
If you picked a “Wild” Biome 
card, each single effect of your 
Action may be applied anywhere 
on your Planet board (even in 
different Biomes).
IMPORTANT!

2.2 Activate your Power
Each Biome card shows a special Power in its lower right 
corner. Powers grant 1 or more bonus effects that can 
be applied anywhere on your Planet during the round, 
regardless of the Biome shown on your card.
Powers are represented by the 6 Power Tracks shown at the 
top of your Planet board. The current strength of each Power 
is indicated by the position of the corresponding cylinder 
marker on the track (they all start at “zero strength”).
You can activate your Power at any time during the round 
(before or after your Action). To activate your Power, you 
must follow these 2 steps, in order:
• Upgrade the Power: Move the cylinder marker on the 
Power Track corresponding to the icon shown on your 
Biome card to the next space to the right. If the cylinder is 
already in the final space of its track, ignore this step.
• Apply the Power Effects: Apply the effect granted by 
that Power 1 or more times, up to the value indicated 
by the position of the cylinder marker on the track 
after the upgrade.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are 6 possible effects granted by Powers:
 Plant Sprout: Place 1 Sprout treeple from the pool into 
an empty space of your Planet board.
 
 Small Tree Growth: Replace 1 Sprout treeple on your 
Planet board with 1 Small Tree 
treeple from the pool.
 
 Big Tree Growth: Replace 1 Small Tree treeple on your 
Planet board with 1 Big Tree treeple 
from the pool.
 Plant Bush: Place 1 Bush pawn from the pool into an 
empty space of your Planet board. Bushes 
don’t collect Light, but will count as Trees 
when calculating points for your biggest 
Forest (see page 14).
 Place Lake: Place 1 Lake pawn from the pool into 
an empty space of your Planet board. 
Immediately apply 1 Generic Growth effect 
on up to 2 different spaces orthogonally 
adjacent to that Lake.
 Bud: Immediately gain a number of points equal to 
the number shown by the position of the cylinder 
marker on the track. 
• Each single effect of your Power may be 
applied anywhere on your Planet board, even 
in different Biomes.
• You must use all the effects of your Power 
either before or after your Action, you can’t 
split your Action.
• The effect of a Power can be applied to the 
same space where you previously applied the 
effect of your Action this round, and vice-versa.
Remember
1 2 3

3. End of Round Cleanup
When all players have performed all of their Actions, the round is over.
Count the Biome cards you have in front of you (the one you picked this round, 
as well as those you picked during previous rounds of this Season).
If their number is equal to the maximum number of rounds for the current 
Season, as shown in the lower left corner of your Planet board, then 
the Season is over: follow the End of Season procedure (see page 12). 
If not, start a new round in the current Season.
Daisy must perform her actions for the 
round. She can perform an Action and 
activate a Power based on her chosen card 
(Swamp Biome with Plant Sprout Power).
Daisy decides to start with her Power. She 
upgrades her Plant Sprout Power and can 
place 2 Sprouts anywhere on the planet. 
She chooses positions A and B .
Then, she performs her Action in the Swamp 
Biome, as determined by her Biome card. 
She performs a B 
 
 action, growing 
the Sprout into a Small Tree C , and the 
Small Tree into a Big Tree D .
Oliver chooses a Wheat Biome card with 
the Place Lake Power.
He decides to start with his Action and 
applies 3 Plant Sprout effects in the Wheat 
Biome. Then, he activates his Power.
He upgrades his Place Lake Power and can 
now place a Lake anywhere on his Planet. 
Lakes grant 2 Generic Growth effects in 
adjacent spaces, even if they are in different 
Biomes, so Oliver grows the 2 Sprouts in 
the spaces to the left and right of the Lake 
into Small Trees.
2 3 4

The End of Season procedure consists of the following steps:
1.Collect Light
2.Biggest Forest
3.Change Season
1.Collect Light
The position of the Sun around your Planet board determines 
the direction Light is coming from. Each Tree casts a shadow 
in the same direction. Trees still cast their shadow even when 
they are in the shadow of another Tree.
Small Trees cast a shadow on 1 orthogonally adjacent space behind 
them, opposite the Sun, overshadowing a Small Tree A , but not a 
Big Tree B .
END OF THE SEASON
SHADOW SIZES
Small Trees cast a 1-space shadow
Big Trees cast a 2-space shadow
TREE POINTS
Small Trees are worth 1 point when hit by Light
Big Trees are worth 2 points when hit by Light
Update your score with the points you earned for the Light 
collected by your Trees by advancing the cylinder marker 
on the Score Track surrounding your Planet.
Each Tree that is hit by Light collects points. Trees are not 
hit by Light when they are in the shadow of Trees of equal 
height or taller (hence a Tree in the shadow of a smaller 
Tree is hit by the light anyway).
Depending on their height, Trees cast shadows of different 
length, and are worth a different number of points during 
the Collect Light step.
NOTE: Sprouts, Bushes, and Lakes do not collect Light, 
and they don’t cast any shadows either.
Big Trees cast a shadow on the 2 orthogonally adjacent spaces 
behind them, opposite the Sun, overshadowing both Small Trees and 
Big Trees in any of those spaces.

We suggest you count one line at a time, always starting from the spaces nearest to the Sun.
1.1 How to count Light Points 
A The 1st Tree casts a 1-space shadow. Even 
though it is in the shadow, the 2nd Tree is taller, 
so it is hit by Light. Being a Big Tree, it casts a 
2-space shadow, overshadowing the 3rd and 
4th Trees. The last Tree is not in the shadow of 
any other Tree, so it is hit by Light.
C Even if it is overshadowed by the 1st Big Tree, 
the 2nd Big Tree still casts its own 2-space 
shadow, overshadowing both the 3rd and 4th 
Trees.
D Crevice spaces (identified by a dashed 
border) are counted when you consider the 
length of the shadows cast by Trees. The 
2nd Tree in this line is hit by Light, while the 
rightmost Small Tree is overshadowed by the 
2-space shadow of the Big Tree.
E The Small Tree to the left is hit by Light, 
because Lakes do not cast any shadow. The 
2nd Small Tree also collects Light because 
Sprouts do not cast any shadow either. The 
other Small Trees are all overshadowed by the 
Tree that precedes them in the line.
B The 2nd Tree is overshadowed by the 1st 
because they have the same height. The Bush 
does not collect Light, but it does not cast any 
shadow either, so the 3rd Tree is hit by Light.

2.Biggest Forest
Each group of Trees (Small or Big) and Bushes that are 
orthogonally adjacent to each other on your Planet board is 
called a Forest. Of all the Forests on your Planet, the one that 
contains the highest total number of Small Trees, Big Trees, 
and/or Bushes is your Biggest Forest.
You gain 1 point for each Small Tree, Big Tree, and/or Bush 
that is part of your Biggest Forest. Even if they don’t collect 
Light, Bushes can be extremely useful, allowing you to merge 
different Forests into a bigger one without requiring any 
additional growth effects.
Update your score with the points you earned for your 
Biggest Forest by advancing the cylinder marker on the 
Score Track surrounding your Planet.
3.Change Season
Before starting the next round (and the new Season), follow 
these steps:
1 Move the cylinder marker on the Season track of your 
Planet board to the next space. It will remind you of the 
number of rounds you will play during the next Season. 
 
NOTE: If the cylinder marker was already on the last space 
of the Season track, the game is over. Ignore the 
following steps and move directly to the End of 
Game procedure (see page 15).
2 Discard all of the Biome cards you picked during the 
Draft Phases of this Season.
3 Move the Sun marker to the next space going clockwise 
around your Planet board. Light will now come from that 
direction during the next Season, so be sure you are 
ready when it is time to Collect Light again!
Now you’re ready to start a new round!
There are 4 Forests in the example above. The biggest one is D , 
with 5 spaces (including a Bush). Note that it could be merged with
A with just a single Bush. B and C could be merged by growing 
the Sprout that separates them into a Small Tree, too. Merging them 
all into a single Forest would then just require another Bush (or Tree).

END OF THE GAME
When the 4th Season ends, the game is over. It’s time to 
calculate your final score by checking the points you get 
from your Biomes.
The number of points you get from each of your Biomes 
depends on its Fertility value and the number of Big Trees 
it contains.
For each Biome:
1. Calculate the Fertility value of the Biome: add up the 
 icons shown on all cards matching that Biome 
in the Fertility Zone;
 
2. You get points equal to the Fertility value of the Biome 
for each Big Tree that is in that Biome.
Update your score with the points you earned for your 
Biomes by advancing the cylinder marker on the Score 
Track surrounding your Planet.
When all players have updated their Score Tracks with the 
points they obtained from Biomes, the final score is set. The 
player with the most points is the winner!
In case of a tie, the winner is the tied player who comes first 
in turn order, based on the final position of the First Player 
token after the last round.
In this example, the Fertility 
 values 
are 0 
 for the Snow and Swamp 
Biomes, 5 
 for the Flowers and 
Wheat Biomes, 3 
 for the Rock 
Biome, and 2 
 for the Grassland 
Biome A .
With the values above, thanks to the 
Big Trees she grew on her Planet B , 
Lily earns a total of 29 points C .
 x 4
 = 20 Pt.
 x 0
 x 2
 = 4 Pt.
 = 5 Pt.

CREDITS
Game Design: Hjalmar Hach 
Artwork: Wenyi Geng
Project Manager: Carola Corti 
Game Development: Carola Corti, Lorenzo Silva 
Art Direction: Lorenzo Silva
Graphic Design: Noa Vassalli, Fábio Frencl 
Rulebook: Carola Corti, Alessandro Pra’ 
Editing: William Niebling, Alessandro Pra’
horribleguild.com
customercare@horribleguild.com
If you have any issues, please contact us at:
SINGLE PLAYER MODE
The solitaire mode of Evergreen allows you to play the game 
against an A.I. player who is not building their own Planet, but 
only removing cards from the drafting pool to make your 
drawing choices interesting even without a real adversary. 
The core rules of the game basically remain the same, with a 
few changes to the Draft Phase.
Turn order is determined by the position of the First Player 
token, like in a regular game. At the beginning of the Draft 
Phase, draw 3 cards and place them face up on the table, 
next to each other, to the right of the deck. When its turn 
comes to pick a card from the drafting pool, the A.I. player 
will always follow this priority list:
• If a Wild Biome card is present, it always picks it.
 
• If no Wild Biome is present, it chooses the Biome card 
showing the most Fertility 
 icons.
 
• If no Biome card shows any Fertility 
 icons, it chooses the 
card with an Aridity 
 icon whose Biome has the least 
 icons in the Fertility Zone.
When in doubt between two or more cards, it chooses the 
leftmost card among them.
SOLO POINTS
STATUS
Bonsai
Olive Tree
Broccoli
Holly
Birch
Pine
Oak
Baobab
121-135 Pt.
0 - 120 Pt.
136 - 150 Pt.
151 - 160 Pt.
161 - 170 Pt. 
171 - 180 Pt.
181 - 190 Pt. 
191 - 200 Pt.
+ 200 Pt. 
Legendary Sequoia
Icon Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
Snow
Flowers
Swamp
Wheat
Rock
Grassland
Wild
BIOMES
Plant a Sprout
Generic Growth
Anywhere on the Planet
ACTION EFFECTS
FERTILITY VALUE
Aridity
As part of the Evergreen project, we partnered up with 
Trees for the Future. Trees for the Future (TREES) trains 
communities on sustainable land use—so that they can 
build vibrant regional economies, thriving food systems, 
and a healthier planet.
We worked to minimize the environmental impact of this 
game. All components are in paper or wood, and the 
plastic inside is biodegradable. Dispose of it accordingly.
Small Tree Growth
Bud
Plant a Sprout
Place Lake
Big Tree Growth
Plant Bush
 
 
 
Light Scoring
Forest Scoring
Season Rounds
SEASONS AND SCORING
POWER EFFECTS