THE RULE S OF
Don’t like reading rules? 
Watch the How to Play video instead! 
www.northstargames.com/pages/evolution-videos

Approximately 350 million years ago, the first species 
departed from the ground and took to the sky. This 
event marked a monumental transformation in Earth’s 
biological ecosystem.
The addition of wings enables animals to seek out food 
from the air and easily relocate when food becomes 
scarce. Flying is also one of the most effective ways to 
evade predators. However, due to the enormous amount 
of energy that wings require, avian creatures have to eat 
more food for their body size than any other species on 
the planet.
Flight is an expansion to the Evolution game system that introduces avian species into the 
ecosystem. Now your species can swoop down on unsuspecting prey from above, fly away 
from predators, or soar to a new location when food is scarce. Will the ability to fly propel 
you to new heights? Or will it bring about your downfall? Explore the expanding Evolution 
world and find out!
Set up the base game as normal with the following additional steps:
1.	 Shuffle all 48 new trait cards into the base deck.
2.	 Remove 30 cards from the deck and place them off to the side. These 
cards will be used at the end of the game instead of shuffling the deck.
3.	 Place the Avian Species Boards and the Flight trait cards next to the 
Land Species Boards.
4.	 Place the Cliff board next to the Watering Hole board.
12	 Avian Species Boards
12	 Flight trait cards
48	 Trait cards
1	 Cliff Board
OVERVIEW
OVERVIEW
SET-UP
SET-UP
COMPONENTS
COMPONENTS

Avian Species Boards 
There are three differences between Avian species and 
the Land species. 
•	 Avian species have a maximum Body Size of 
3 instead of 6.
•	 Avian species have an upkeep cost of food equal 
to their Body Size. The upkeep cost simulates the 
amount of food needed to maintain wings, and it 
must be paid before an Avian species can feed their 
Population. The upkeep food is placed on the spaces 
directly below the Body Size marker and does not 
get scored each round.
•	 Players must discard 2 cards to create an Avian 
species (instead of 1 card).
The Flight Trait
The Flight trait always accompanies an Avian Species Board, 
but behaves like a regular trait in every other respect:
•	 It counts as one of the 3 traits a species can have. 
•	 It can be negated by Intelligence.
•	 It counts as 1 point at the end of the game.
•	 It can be swapped out for another trait. When a player 
swaps out Flight for another trait, they also exchange 
the Avian Species Board for a Land Species Board while 
maintaining the Population and Body Size. It is not 
possible for a Land species to return to the sky. 
See the “Reference Section – Trait Cards” for a detailed 
explanation of the Flight trait.
Event Cards
Evolution: Flight introduces a new type of card 
called an Event Card. There are two Event Cards 
in this expansion: Dive Bomb and Seed Dispersal. 
These cards do not get played on a species as a trait. 
Instead, they are discarded from your hand and 
placed directly into the discard pile. Each Event 
Card has a specific time that you are allowed to 
play it and an effect that immediately takes place. 
Alternatively, players may discard an Event card at 
any time during their the Play Cards phase to draw 
a new card. Players do not get the effect of an Event 
Card if they choose to discard the Event Card to 
draw a new card. 
NEW COMPONENTS
NEW COMPONENTS

The goal remains the same: propagate your species and eat lots of food!
All the rules of the base game apply with the following changes:
A player now has the option to discard 2 cards to create an Avian species. That player takes a 
new Avian Species Board, puts Wooden Markers at Population “1” and Body Size “1”, and places 
a Flight trait card above the Avian Species Board. 
GOAL
GOAL
PLAYING THE GAME
PLAYING THE GAME
PHASE 3: PLAY CARDS
PHASE 3: PLAY CARDS
The Cliff
The Cliff is a source of food similar to the 
Watering Hole, but only available to Avian 
species. Place Plant Food equal to the 
number of players on the Cliff each turn 
when the Food cards are revealed.

There are some cards which trigger (like Good Eyesight and Fertile) that might lead to timing 
issues. When multiple cards trigger at the same time, they are resolved in turn order starting 
with the player who has the First Player Marker. Just as with the base game, each player can 
determine the order of their own triggered effects if they have more than one card to resolve.
TIMING ISSUES
TIMING ISSUES
PHASE 4: FEEDING
PHASE 4: FEEDING
1. Reveal the Food Cards
When you place food onto the Watering Hole, place additional food on the Cliff 	
	
	
equal to the number of players.
2. Feeding Species
•	 An Avian species may take food from the Watering Hole or the Cliff, but not both at the 
same time (for instance, with Cooperation or Foraging). Cooperation is triggered as normal 
when an Avian species takes food from the Cliff even if the species receiving the food is a 
Land species.
•	 An Avian species must take food equal to their Body Size before they can feed their 
Population. This food is placed on the bottom of the Avian Species Board below the Body 
Size marker. This upkeep food does not get placed in the Food Token Bag at the end of the 
round, so it will not count towards the final score.
3. End of Feeding
Each player returns their Avian upkeep food to the Food Bank before placing the remaining food 
into their Food Token Bag. 
The upkeep food 
is placed here

Good Eyesight
A Non-Carnivore with Good Eyesight takes 2 food from the Watering 
Hole before the Food Cards are revealed. If there is not enough food on 
the Watering Hole to feed all of the Non-Carnivore species with Good 
Eyesight, then resolve the trait cards in turn order starting with the 
current Start Player. Good Eyesight triggers Cooperation and Foraging 
as normal. A Carnivore with Good Eyesight may attack a species with 
Camouflage. 
Camouflage
A species with Camouflage cannot be attacked unless the attacking 
Carnivore has the Good Eyesight trait.
Brood Parasite
Before the Food Cards are revealed, an Avian species with Brood 
Parasite takes 1 Meat Food and increases its Population by 1 for each 
adjacent Avian species that its owner has in play. If a player has Brood 
Parasite between two of their own Avian species’, the species with 
Brood Parasite takes 2 Meat Food from the Food Bank and increases 
its Population by 2. This effect would trigger Cooperation once, but 
since Nesting applies to each Population increase, it would trigger 
Nesting twice. The effect of Brood Parasite does not take place if the 
card is played on a Land species, though the Brood Parasite trait card 
would still count as 1 point at the end of the game. 
Dive-Bomb
This Event Card is played during a player’s feeding turn. Dive Bomb 
allows that player to take two feeding turns in a row, but the bonus 
feeding turn must be taken with an Avian species. This bonus 
feeding turn can happen before or after the player’s regular feeding 
turn. If the Avian species is a Carnivore, it immediately attacks a 
legal target. This effect triggers Scavenger as normal. If the Avian 
species is a Non-Carnivore, it immediately takes 2 Plant Food from 
the Watering Hole, the Cliff, or the Food Bank. This effect triggers 
Cooperation and Foraging as normal.

Nesting
If a species with Nesting is a Land Species, it takes 1 Plant Food from the 
Watering Hole or the Food Bank for each Population it gains.This effect 
triggers Cooperation and Foraging for each Population increase. If a species 
with Nesting is an Avian Species, it takes 3 Meat Food for each Population 
it gains. This effect triggers Cooperation (but not Scavenger) and may be 
triggered twice in one round by Brood Parasite.
An Avian species with Nesting might increase in Body Size after increasing 
in Population. In this case, the appropriate amount of food should be 
moved from the Population food slots to the Body Size food slots.
Flight
The first food taken by a species with Flight must be placed on the Body Size 
upkeep food slot(s) on the Avian Species Board. The species’ Population 
can only be fed after it has upkeep food equal to its Body Size. Under no 
circumstance can Population be fed before the appropriate upkeep food 
is paid. Avian species can take food from either the Watering Hole or the 
Cliff, but they cannot take food from both sources on the same feeding turn 
(for instance, with Cooperation of Foraging). A species with Flight cannot 
be attacked unless the attacking Carnivore also has the Flight trait. If a 
species with Flight also has the Carnivore trait, the player may discard a card 
from their hand into the discard pile to negate Symbiosis, Warning Call, or 
Climbing for this species’ next attack.
Seed Dispersal
This Event Card is played anytime during 
a player’s Play Card phase. Immediately 
place food onto the Watering Hole equal to 
the total Population of that player’s Avian 
species. This effect may cause Fertile and 
Good Eyesight to trigger.

Game Designers:	
Dominic Crapuchettes, Dmitry Knorre, Sergey Machin
Project Manager:	
Dominic Crapuchettes, Nick Bentley
Lead Developer:	
Dominic Crapuchettes,
Game Developers:	
Luke Warren, Scott Rencher, Andrew Eiche, Nick Bentley, 
	
David Lipman, Andrew Chen
Card & Box Cover Artist:	
Catherine Hamilton
Graphic Designer:	
Jacoby O’Connor
Rules:	
Dominic Crapuchettes
Editing:	
Luke Warren, Andrew Eiche, Scott Rencher, Kristen Rowe, 
	
Alexandra Thirumalai, Gail Keech
Production Manager:	
Edoardo Kulp, Tom Strom
Playtesters:	
Satish Pillalamarri, Edoardo Kulp, Kristen Rowe, Tony Hodge, AJ Gaegler, 	
	
Liz Burton, Michael Burton, David Miller
Ornithological Consultant:	 Catherine Hamilton with additional advice taken from Ryan Tate
Special Thanks to:	
The vibrant Evolution community on the BoardGameGeek.com and 
	
all of our Kickstarter backers. It is because of your enthusiasm that the 
	
game of Evolution is evolving into the “Evolution game system”. We plan 
	
to support this game system for the next 10 years or more. Cheers!
GAME CREDITS
GAME CREDITS
www.NorthStarGames.com