CAUTION: Do not look at the playing materials (cards, book, etc.) yet! 
First, read this manual together out loud and carefully follow all of its instructions.
For 1–6 Players, 
Ages 12 and up
What’s the game about?
You and your friends are in the car on your way to a well-deserved 
vacation. Your spirits are high as you talk about spending a few 
relaxing days on the beach and lively evenings playing games in your 
vacation rental. The last thing you need is for your car to break down ...
You find yourselves on a lonely road at the edge of the woods. Maybe 
call a tow truck on your cell phone? Not a chance, no coverage here. 
It is already late, and a storm is brewing. The rain is 
getting heavier. It’s starting to really pour. You leave 
your car to get to shelter. You discover a cabin in the 
woods. It looks run-down and possibly abandoned. 
Luckily, the door is open — you have found shelter for the night!
The next morning, you discover that the door has been locked 
with a combination lock. All of the windows have thick iron bars. 
You didn’t notice them in the dark of night, of course.
In front of you, there is a book and a strange disk, like a decoder. 
It dawns on you that you will not be able to leave this cabin until 
you have worked together to solve a series of riddles and open 
the lock. But hurry! You will have to get away before your creepy 
“host” returns ...

IMPORTANT: Do not look closely at any of the game materials 
before starting the game! Do not leaf through the book yet, and 
do not look at the fronts of the cards yet. Wait until “the game” tells you to.
Game materials
86	Cards
	 	23 Riddle Cards
	 	30 Answer Cards
	 	33 Help Cards
	 3	Strange items (red, green, blue)
	 1	Book
	 1	Decoder disk
In addition, you will need something to write with (ideally pencils and an 
eraser), one or more sheets of paper and a watch (ideally a stopwatch), 
to keep track of the time. If you like, you can use a pair of scissors. The 
scissors will make the game easier, but won’t be absolutely necessary.
Game setup
Get the book and the decoder disk ready on the table.
Leave the “strange items” in the box for now.
Sort the cards into three piles in accordance with what is written on 
their back sides:
> Riddle Cards	
> Answer Cards	
> Help Cards
Be sure not to look at the front sides of any of the cards yet.
Check to be sure that the Riddle Cards and Answer Cards are arranged 
in ascending order according to their letters or numbers.
Sort the Help Cards according to their symbols, and then place them 
on the side of the table. Place cards with the same symbol, one on top 
of another, such that the “1st CLUE” card is on top of the “2nd CLUE” card 
and the latter is on top of the “SOLUTION” card.

Where is the game board?
This game has no game board! You will have to figure out for 
yourselves what you have to find in the game and what the 
rooms look like. At the beginning of the game, you will have 
only the book and the decoder disk available to you. 
As the game continues, you will add the Riddle Cards — 
either to be found in illustrations, or referred to in the text. 
Whenever this happens, you can pick the corresponding cards 
from the Riddle Card pile and look at them. 
Likewise, you can only use the “strange items” in the box when 
explicitly told that you have found them. Until then, leave them 
untouched in the box!
Example:
If you find an illustration like this, you may 
immediately pull the corresponding Riddle Card 
out of the pile and look at it.
Course of play
Your goal is to escape together from the abandoned cabin as quickly 
as you can.
That would definitely be easier if not for the fact that every lock in 
the room is secured with a riddle. During the course of the game, you 
will keep finding objects that are locked with a three-digit number 
or color code. To access them, you will have to figure out the matching 
code and enter it into the decoder disk. At the edge of the disk, you will 
find 10 different symbols. Each symbol stands for a code to be cracked. 
But you will have to figure out for yourselves which symbol belongs to 
which code. Be sure to pay attention to every detail. If you think you 
can crack a code, enter it under the corresponding symbol on the disk. 
Then, look through the viewing window on the smallest wheel to see a 
number. 

 
This number indicates the number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to look at. If the code is incorrect, you will have to keep 
searching for a solution or switch to another riddle for the time being.
If the code is correct, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue.
Example:
For the riddle with the symbol, you 
came up with the digits “8 7 4” as the 
solution. You enter this combination 
under the symbol on the decoder disk.
In the little window, you will see the 
number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to pull out of the pile and look at.
 Is the code incorrect?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you. In that case, simply 
return the card to the pile and take another look at the 
riddle that you failed to solve. Maybe there’s something 
that you overlooked. Or it may be that you simply don’t 
yet have the hints that you need to solve it. Then you 
will just have to continue someplace else.
 Is the code possibly correct?
If so, the Answer Card will look like this:
 Where will you see the code symbol?
Good question! To answer it, you will have to take 
a close look at the pictures in the book or on the 
Riddle Cards. All possible locked objects can be 
found in those places.
All of these objects are marked with a symbol. 
Our example involves the safe with the symbol 
on it. 
When you are done, 
place this card back 
 
in the stack of Answer Cards!
You already saw how 
 it comes to
 
 
nothing... 
Unfortunately, the 
code is not correct!
When you are done 
place this card back 
in the stack of Answer cards!
The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?

IMPORTANT: 
 
 Whether right or wrong — return all Answer Cards to the Answer Card pile. 
 
 All codes can be solved logically. You shouldn’t just try all possible 
combinations on the disk.
To continue with this example scenario: 
Next, you will take a look at the Answer Card 
pictured next to the safe on the card. You 
will see that you should now retrieve Answer 
Card 1 from the pile.
 Is the code really correct?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue. You will find one or 
more new Riddle Cards which you will be allowed to pull from the pile 
and look at immediately.
 Is the code actually incorrect?
Well, in that case you must have made a mistake. You will just have to 
think about it some more and come up with a different answer.
Need some help?
Of course, the game can provide you assistance if you get stuck. For 
each code, there are three Help Cards that can be identified by the 
symbol on their back sides.
In addition to giving you an initial useful clue, each “1st CLUE” Help 
Card also tells you which Riddle Cards you must have found in order to 
be able to solve the corresponding riddle.
The “2nd CLUE” Help Cards will give you somewhat more concrete 
assistance in finding a solution to the corresponding riddle.
The “SOLUTION” Help Cards provide the solution to the riddle.

IMPORTANT: Always take the Help Cards for a specific Riddle Card 
or riddle in the book. These riddles are usually identified with a symbol 
(matching a symbol on the decoder disk). It won’t help you to use Help Cards 
if you have not found a riddle with the corresponding symbol.
IMPORTANT: You can write on, fold, or tear the materials ... 
All of this is allowed and sometimes even required. You can only play the 
game once — after which you will know all the riddles, and won’t need the 
game materials any longer! If you like, you can also use scissors to cut the 
materials rather than tearing them.
Have a little patience — some of the riddles can only be solved with 
the help of several Riddle Cards. You won’t always have all of them 
available to you right away. Sometimes, you will first have to grapple 
with other riddles to get more cards. But don’t be shy about using Help 
Cards if you get stuck.
Once you have used a Help Card, place it on a discard pile.
Additional playing materials
In addition to the materials contained in the box, you will need a 
pencil and paper for taking notes.
You will also need a watch/stopwatch.
When does the game end?
The game ends when you have solved the last riddle and escaped from 
the abandoned cabin. A card will tell you that. Start a stopwatch (or 
check the time) at the beginning of the game so you know how long 
you needed.
You can look at the table on the next page to see how well you did. 
When calculating the number of Help Cards used, only the ones that 
gave you new hints or solutions should be counted. If a Help Card 

only had something that you knew already, do not include it in the 
calculation.
One final tip
Any game materials that you successfully used to help solve a riddle 
should be set aside, but not put away. You might need some materials 
again. But this way, you will be able to keep track of the materials 
more easily and won’t get them mixed up. For several of the riddles, 
the only things that you will need are the illustrations of the cabin.
The game begins
What are you waiting for? Start the stopwatch and get out of the cabin 
before it’s too late! Now you are allowed to look through the entire 
book and begin solving the riddles. If anything is unclear, don’t be shy 
about looking something up in this manual during the game.
Inka & Markus Brand and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
The Authors:
Inka & Markus Brand live with their children Lukas and Emely in 
Gummersbach, Germany. They have published many children’s 
and family games together and won numerous prizes. 
Of course, they are avid riddle and escape game fans.
EXIT concept: Kosmos 
(Ralph Querfurth, Sandra Dochtermann)
Illustration: Franz Vohwinkel
Cover illustration: Silvia Christoph
Title graphics: Michaela Kienle
Graphic design: Sensit Communication
Editing: Ralph Querfurth
Translation: David Gamon
English edition editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire
	
	
	
No 	
1–2	
3–5	
6–10	
> 10 
	
	
	 < 60 Min.	
10 stars	
8 stars	
	 < 90 Min.	
9 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars
	 < 120 Min.	
8 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars	
2 stars
	 > 120 Min.	
2 stars	
1 star
© 2016 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-
GmbH & Co. KG. Pfizerstr. 5-7, 
D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; Web: 
kosmos.de
© 2016 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, 
Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered 
trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en 
Allemagne
Distributed in North America by 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, 
RI 02903. Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by 
Thames & Kosmos UK, LP. Goudhurst, 
Kent TN17 2QZ. Phone: 01580 212000 
Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
692681-02-061216

The following players
 on	 in 
 
successfully escaped from the abandoned cabin. 
What an outstanding accomplishment, and how fortunate that they 
now won’t have to be locked up forever inside the cabin!
	
To do it, it took them	
and
	
 They used a total of 	
Help Cards.
	
This earned them 	
stars in the assessment!
 
	
The coolest riddle was
	
The trickiest riddle was 
	 The player who solved this riddle was 
Minutes
1 |
2 |
3 |
4 |
5 |
6 |
Seconds
Share your Exit experiences using #exitstrategies