CAUTION: Do not look at the game materials (cards, book, etc.) yet! 
First, read this rulebook together out loud and carefully follow all of its instructions.
For 1-4 players, ages 10 and up
For Android, iOS, and Fire. Check 
the app stores for details.
Game tutorial
Atmospheric soundtrack
Digital timer 
Download the free bonus app
Helper App
Download the free 
Kosmos Helper App!
What’s the game about?
It’s the last day of your vacation in Florence! You are strolling happily 
through the narrow alleyways of the city when the heavens open 
up in a sudden downpour. As you scramble for cover, you bump into 
a strangely-clad man. With a conspiratorial air, he presses a strange 
marble disk into your hand along with a museum brochure, mumbles 
something about the “treasure of the Santa Maria,” “free tickets,” 
and “have fun,” and disappears into the heavy rain. A treasure? Free 
tickets? You don’t have to be told twice! 
As you enter the imposing museum, however, there is not 
another soul to be seen. Even the ticket booth is closed! 
Disappointed, you decide to turn around when the giant 
entry door suddenly slams shut right in front of your noses. 
You are locked in! You look around in a panic. What seems to be the 
only other exit is blocked by a turnstile with an odd symbol. Wait! 
Haven’t you seen that symbol before? 
And it dawns on you: Only if you can work together to solve the 
riddle of the museum will you be able to escape. If not, you will 
surely be added to its permanent collection ...

IMPORTANT: Do not look closely at any of the game materials before starting 
the game! Do not leaf through the book yet, and do not look at the front of the 
cards yet. Wait until “the game” tells you to.
Game materials
85	Cards
	 	30 Help Cards
	 	30 Answer Cards
	 	25 Riddle Cards
	 1	Book
	 1	Decoder disk
	 2	Strange items
Additionally required materials
In addition, you will need something to write with (ideally ball-point 
pens, pencils, and an eraser), one or more sheets of paper, and a watch 
(ideally a stopwatch), to keep track of time. Alternatively, you can use the 
digital timer with atmospheric soundtrack in the Kosmos Helper App — 
just press the hourglass. A pair of scissors will make the game easier to 
play. If you don’t have any available, you can still play by just ripping the 
materials with your hands when necessary. 
Game setup
Get the book and the decoder disk ready on the table. 
 
Pull the strange “tot” item and the string out of the box and place 
them to the side. You will need these materials later in the game. 
 

Be sure not to look at the front sides of 
any of the cards yet.
Sort the cards into three piles in accordance with what is written on 
their back sides: 
> Riddle Cards (red)
> Answer Cards (blue)
> Help Cards (green)
Check to make sure that the Riddle Cards and the Answer Cards are 
arranged in ascending order according to their letters or numbers. Sort 
the Help Cards according to their symbols, and then place them to the 
side of the table. Arrange cards with the same symbol, one on top of 
another, such that the “1st CLUE” card is on top of the “2nd CLUE” card, 
and the latter is on top of the “SOLUTION” card.
Where is the game board?
This game has no game board! You will have to figure out 
for yourselves what you have to find in the game and what 
the setting looks like. At the beginning of the game, you will 
have only the book and the decoder disk available to you. 
As the game continues, you will add the Riddle Cards — 
either to be found in illustrations, or referred to in the text. 
Whenever this happens, you can pick the corresponding 
cards from the Riddle Card pile and look at them. 
Example:
If you find an illustration of Riddle Card A in 
the book, then you may immediately take the 
corresponding Riddle Card from the pile and 
look at it.
 
You may only look at an Answer Card when you have entered a code on 
the decoder disk and have been directed to look at the corresponding 
Answer Card.
Likewise, you can only use the strange items when explicitly told that 
you have found them. Until then, they have to remain off to the side 
of the table.

IMPORTANT: To solve riddles, you can write on, fold, tear, or cut the materials ... 
All of this is allowed, and sometimes even required. You can only play the game once — after 
which you will know all the riddles, and won’t need the game materials any longer!
Course of play
Your goal is to work together to escape from the mysterious museum 
in as short a time as possible. That would definitely be easier if there 
weren’t so many riddles awaiting you, each of which has to be solved 
for you to make progress!
You will be solving the riddles in the order in which they appear in the 
book. You will keep coming across locked doors and objects. Each of 
these will display a symbol and can only be opened with a three-digit 
code. If you see a riddle, take a careful look at the corresponding pages 
in the book and the Riddle Cards. Put your heads together to try to 
figure out how to solve the riddle so that you can decipher the three-
digit code. Then enter that code on the decoder disk.
On the outer ring of the disk, you will see 10 different symbols. Each 
symbol stands for a code to be cracked. Pay close attention to the, 
symbol that is depicted on the cards and on the objects in the book!
Enter the three-digit code under that symbol on the disk — starting at 
the outside and working your way in. Then, look through the viewing 
window on the smallest wheel to see a number. This number indicates 
the number of the Answer Card that you are then allowed to look at. 
	 Example:
For the riddle with the symbol , 
you have come up with 8 6 1 
as the code. You enter this combination 
under the symbol on the decoder disk.
In the little window, you will see the 
number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to pull out of the pile 
and look at — in this case, 3.

The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?
This would make William Gilbert’s 
hair stand on end! 
What on earth are you doing?
Unfortunately, 
the code is not correct!
 Is the code incorrect?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you with an . 
Check the symbol and the code. If that still doesn’t 
help, take another look at the riddle and try to come 
up with a different code. 
 Is the code possibly correct?
If so, you will get an Answer Card showing an 
overview of objects and cards.
Where can you see the code symbol?
On the Answer Card showing an overview, you will 
see the doors and objects to be opened shown in the 
same order as the order in which you encounter the 
riddles on them. Each locked door or object is marked 
with a symbol. 
To continue with this example scenario: Let’s say you 
want to open the wooden box with the symbol. 
So look for the box with the symbol on the Answer 
Card. It will then point you to another Answer Card. 
In this example, it points you to Card 18. Pull this 
card out of the pile. You will not learn whether the 
code is really correct until you see this Answer Card.
 Is the code really correct?
If so, the second Answer Card will tell you how to continue. You will 
find one or more new Riddle Cards which you will be allowed to 
take from the pile of Riddle Cards and look at right away.
 Is the code actually incorrect?
Well, in that case you will land on an Answer Card with an . Check 
the sequence of numbers in the code, and compare the symbol on 
the decoder disk against the symbol on the Riddle Cards. If the code 
is nevertheless wrong, take another closer look at the riddle and try 
to come up with a different code.

IMPORTANT: You have to solve the riddles in the proper order! 
In other words, you are only permitted to continue with the next 
riddle or turn to the next page of the book if you have solved the 
previous code and the instructions tell you that you may do so!
The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?
Don’t forget! 
 The Answer Cards with overviews show the locked 
doors and objects in sequence — first from top to 
bottom in the left column, then in the right one.
 Whether wrong or right — return all Answer Cards 
immediately to the Answer Card pile 
if the card tells you to do this.
 All codes can be solved logically. You shouldn’t just try all possible 
combinations on the disk.
1.
2.
Need some help?
If you get stuck, the game can provide you with some help. For each 
code, there are three Help Cards that can be recognized by the symbol 
on their back sides. 
In addition to giving you an initial useful clue, each “1st CLUE” Help 
Card also tells you what you need in order to be able to solve the 
corresponding riddle.
The “2nd CLUE” Help Cards will give you somewhat more concrete 
assistance in finding a solution to the corresponding riddle.
The “SOLUTION” Help Cards provide the approach to solving the riddle 
and tell you the correct code.
Don’t be shy about using Help Cards if you get stuck. Once you have
used them, place them face up on a discard pile.

	
	
No 	
1 – 2	
3 – 5	
6 – 10	
> 10 
	
	
	 < 60 Min.	
10 stars	
9 stars	
	 < 90 Min.	
9 stars	
4 stars
	 < 120 Min.	
4 stars	
3 stars
	 > 120 Min.	
3 stars	
2 stars
The authors and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
The authors:
Inka & Markus Brand live with their children Lukas and Emely in 
Gummersbach, Germany. They have published many children’s and 
family games together and won numerous prizes. 
Ralph Querfurth is a game editor. Along with Sandra Dochtermann, 
he had the idea for the EXIT games and asked Inka and Markus in 2015 
whether they would like to develop them. The two of them showed no 
hesitation.
EXIT concept: Kosmos, Ralph Querfurth, 
Sandra Dochtermann
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Cover illustration: Silvia Christoph
Title graphics: Michaela Kienle
Graphics: Sensit Communication GmbH
Editing: Katja Ermitsch
Technical development: Monika Schall
Translation: David Gamon
English edition editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire	
694227-02-280618
© 2018 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-
GmbH & Co. KG. Pfizerstr. 5-7, 70184 
Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; 
Web: kosmos.de
© 2018 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, 
Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered 
trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
All rights reserved.
Distributed in North America by 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, 
RI 02903. Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by 
Thames & Kosmos UK LP. Cranbrook, 
Kent TN17 3HE. Phone: 01580 713000 
Web: www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk
Printed in Germany
This game is recyclable. Separate the plastic from the paper/cardboard. Or, if you completed the game 
without damaging any of the materials, you can give it to someone who has not already solved it.
When does the game end?
The game ends when you have solved the last riddle and escaped from 
the museum. A card will tell you this.
Assessment
It is a major victory to solve all the riddles. You can look at the table 
below to see how well you did. When calculating the number of 
Help Cards used, only the ones that gave you new hints or solutions 
should count! 
The game begins
What are you waiting for? Start the stopwatch or timer! Now you are 
allowed to open the book and start the game on page 2. We hope you 
have fun with EXIT: The Mysterious Museum!

The following players
	
on in 
 
successfully escaped from the mysterious museum.
What an outstanding achievement, and how lucky that they are not 
lost forever in ancient times!
Minutes
Seconds
	
To do it, it took the players	
and
	
They used a total of 	
Help Cards.
	
This earned them 	
stars in the assessment!
	
The coolest riddle was
	
The trickiest riddle was 
Share your Exit experiences using #exitstrategies