CAUTION: Do not look at the game materials (cards, book, etc.) yet! 
First, read this rulebook together out loud and carefully follow all of its instructions.
For 1-4 players, ages 10 and up
For Android 4, iOS 8, and Fire OS 4 
and newer
Atmospheric soundtrack
Digital timer 
Download the free bonus app
Helper App
Download the free 
Kosmos Helper App!
What’s the game about?
A treasure hunt in the Caribbean? That sounds a bit cliché! 
For you, it was actually just supposed to be a joke — a 
crazy adventure, if you will. You paid the street vendor 
10 dollars for the nautical chart and an odd wooden disk. 
The two together, or so the story went, would lead you to 
the fabled wreck of the Santa Maria. Sailboat, dive guide, 
and equipment were easy to rent. Why not take it as an 
opportunity to learn how to scuba-dive? Oh, how naive 
you were!
And now? Now you are literally all in the same boat — in 
the middle of the ocean, in the middle of nowhere. No trace 
of the scene of the Santa Maria’s accident. The map, which 
is apparently counterfeit, does not even show the correct 
ocean! Instead, nothing but riddle after riddle ... 
You will only be able to find the wreck and recover the 
treasure if you are able to work together to crack all the 
codes. If not, sooner or later, and in the truest sense of the 
word, you will all be sunk.

Important: Do not look closely at any of the game materials before 
starting the game! Wait until “the game” tells you too.
Game materials
85	Cards
	 	30 Help Cards
	 	30 Answer Cards
	 	25 Riddle Cards
	 1	Book
	 1	Decoder disk
	 9	Strange items 
	 	(gold coin, flag, 
	 	6 gemstones, mast)
Additionally required materials
In addition, you will need something to write with (ideally a black felt-
tip pen and a pencil), at least one pair of scissors and possibly paper for 
notes. You will also need a watch, ideally a stopwatch. Alternatively, 
you can use the digital timer with the atmospheric soundtrack. Just 
select the game in the Kosmos helper app and press the hourglass. 
Game setup
Get the book and the decoder disk ready on the table. 
Carefully remove the mast, the flag, and the gold coin and set them 
to the side on the table along with the gemstones. You will not need 
these until later in the game.

Be sure not to look at the front sides of 
any of the cards yet!
Sort the cards into three piles in accordance with what is written on 
their back sides: 
> Riddle Cards (red)
> Answer Cards (blue)
> Help Cards (green)
Check to be sure that the Riddle Cards and the Answer cards are 
arranged in ascending order according to their letters or numbers.
Sort the Help Cards according to their symbols, and then place them 
on the side of the table. Place cards with the same symbol, one on top 
of another, such that the “1st CLUE” card is on top of the “2nd CLUE” card 
and the latter is on top of the “SOLUTION” card.
Where is the game board?
This game has no game board! You will have to figure out 
for yourselves what you have to find in the game and what 
the setting looks like. At the beginning of the game, you 
will have only the book and the decoder disk available to 
you. As the game continues, you will add the Riddle Cards — 
either to be found in illustrations, or referred to in the text. 
Whenever this happens, you can pick the corresponding 
cards from the Riddle Card pile and look at them. 
 
Example:
You find an illustration of Riddle Card A in the 
book. Then, you may immediately take the 
corresponding card from the pile and look at it.
You may only look at an Answer Card when you have entered a code on 
the decoder disk and have been directed to the corresponding Answer 
Card.
Likewise, you can only use the strange items when explicitly told that 
you have found them. Until then, they have to remain off to the side 
of the table!

IMPORTANT: To solve riddles, you can write on, fold, or tear the materials ... 
All of this is allowed, and sometimes even required. You can only play the game once — after 
which you will know all the riddles, and won’t need the game materials any longer!
Course of play
Your goal is to work together to find the wreck of the Santa Maria and 
recover the treasure as quickly as you can. That would definitely be 
easier if there weren’t so many riddles awaiting you, each of which has 
to be solved for you to make even a doggy-paddle’s worth of progress!
You will be solving the riddle in the order in which they appear in the 
book. You will keep coming across locked doors and objects. Each of 
these will display a symbol and can only be opened with a three-part 
number or animal code. If you see a riddle, take a careful look at the 
corresponding pages in the book and the Riddle Cards. Put your heads 
together to try to figure out how to solve the riddle so that you can 
decipher the three-part code. Then enter that code on the decoder 
disk.
On the outer ring of the disk, you will see 10 different symbols. Each 
symbol stands for a code to be cracked. Pay close attention to the, 
symbol that is depicted on the cards and on the objects in the book! 
Enter the three-part code under that symbol on the disk — starting at 
the outside and working your way in. Then, look through the viewing 
window on the smallest wheel to see a number. This number indicates 
the number of the Answer Card that you are then allowed to look at. 
	 Example:
For the riddle with the symbol , 
you have come up with 8 6 1 
as the code. You enter this combination 
under the symbol on the decoder disk.
In the little window, you will see the 
number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to pull out of the pile 
and look at — in this case, 8.

The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?
It was totally predictable that 
you would look at this card.
Unfortunately, the 
code is not correct!
 Is the code incorrect?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you with an 
Check the symbol and the code. If that still doesn’t 
help, take another look at the riddle and try to come 
up with a different code. 
 Is the code possibly correct?
If so, you will get an Answer Card showing an 
overview of objects and cards.
Where can you see the code symbol?
On the Answer Card showing an overview, you will 
see the doors and objects to be opened shown in a 
series. Each locked door or object is marked with a 
symbol.
To continue with this example scenario: Let’s say you 
want to open the wooden box with the symbol. So 
look for the box with the symbol on the Answer 
Card. It will then point you to another Answer Card. 
In this example, it points you to Card 20. Pull this 
card out of the pile. You will not learn whether the 
code is really correct until you see this Answer Card.
 Is the code really correct?
If so, the second Answer Card will tell you how to continue. You will 
find one or more new Riddle Cards which you will be allowed to 
take from the pile of Riddle Cards and look at right away.
 Is the code actually incorrect?
Well, in that case you will land on an Answer Card with an . 
Check the sequence of numbers or animals in the code, and 
compare the symbol on the decoder disk against the symbol on the 
Riddle Cards. If the code is nevertheless wrong, take another closer 
look at the riddle and try to come up with a different code.

IMPORTANT: You have to solve the riddles in the proper order! 
In other words, you are only permitted to continue with the next 
riddle or turn to the next page of the book if you have solved the 
previous code and the instructions tell you that you may do so!
The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?
Don’t forget! 
 The Answer Cards with overviews show the locked 
doors and objects in sequence — first from top 
to bottom in the left column, then in the right one.
 Whether wrong or right — return all Answer Cards 
immediately to the Answer Card pile 
if the card tells you to do this.
 All codes can be solved logically. You shouldn’t 
just try all possible combinations on the disk.
1.
2.
Need some help?
If you get stuck, the game can provide you with some help. For each 
code, there are three Help Cards that can be recognized by the symbol 
on their back sides. 
In addition to giving you an initial useful clue, each “1st CLUE” Help 
Card also tells you what you need in order to be able to solve the 
corresponding riddle.
The “2nd CLUE” Help Cards will give you somewhat more concrete 
assistance in finding a solution to the corresponding riddle.
The “SOLUTION” Help Cards provide the approach to solving the riddle 
and tell you the correct code.
Don’t be shy about using Help Cards if you get stuck. Once you have 
used them, place them face up on a discard pile.

	
	
No 	
1 – 2	
3 – 5	
6 – 10	
> 10 
	
	
	 < 60 Min.	
10 stars	
9 stars	
	 < 90 Min.	
9 stars	
4 stars
	 < 120 Min.	
4 stars	
3 stars
	 > 120 Min.	
3 stars	
2 stars
Inka & Markus Brand and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
The Authors:
Inka & Markus Brand live with their children Lukas and Emely in 
Gummersbach, Germany. They have published many children’s 
and family games together and won numerous prizes. 
Of course, they are avid riddle and escape game fans.
EXIT concept: Kosmos 
(Ralph Querfurth, Sandra Dochtermann)
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Cover illustration: Silvia Christoph
Title graphics and graphic design: Fine Tuning
Editing: Katja Ermitsch
Translation: David Gamon
English edition editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire	
© 2017 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-
GmbH & Co. KG. Pfizerstr. 5-7, 
D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; 
Web: kosmos.de
© 2018 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, 
Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered 
trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en 
Allemagne
Distributed in North America by 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, 
RI 02903. Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by 
Thames & Kosmos UK LP. Cranbrook, 
Kent TN17 3HE. Phone: 01580 713000 
Web: www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk
When does the game end?
The game ends when you have solved the last riddle and resurfaced 
from the sea. A card will tell you this.
Assessment
It is a major victory to solve all the riddles. You can look at the table 
below to see how well you did. When calculating the number of 
Help Cards used, only the ones that gave you new hints or solutions 
should count! 
The game begins
What are you waiting for? Start the stopwatch or timer! Now you are 
allowed to open the book and start the game on page 2. We hope you 
have fun with EXIT — The Sunken Treasure!
694050-02-010318

The following players
 	
on in 
 
have successfully recovered the treasure of the Santa Maria from the 
sea floor.
What an outstanding accomplishment, and how fortunate it is that 
they are such clever divers!
Minutes
1 |
2 |
3 |
4 |
Seconds
	
To do it, it took them	
and
	
They used a total of	
Help Cards.
	
This earned them 	
stars in the assessment!
	
The coolest riddle was
	
The toughest riddle was
Share your Exit experiences using #exitstrategies