CAUTION: Do not look at the game materials (cards, book, etc.) yet! 
First, read this rulebook together out loud and carefully follow all of its instructions.
For 1-4 players, ages 12 and up
Download the free 
Kosmos Helper App!
For Android 4, iOS 8, and Fire OS 4 
and newer
Atmospheric soundtrack
Digital timer 
Download the free bonus app
Helper App
What’s the game about?
The year is 1905. You are on your way from Paris to Constantinople 
on the luxurious Orient Express. One morning, the body of 
the passenger Edgar Ratchington, who was traveling alone, is 
discovered.
There seem to be no clues whatsoever about who 
committed the deed. All the other passengers claim to 
have an alibi for the night. Nobody admits to even having 
known Mr. Ratchington. For the master detective Achilles 
Pussot, who happens to be traveling on the train, it would 
be an easy thing to solve the murder — except that he has 
disappeared without a trace.
You find his notebook and realize that he must have already been 
aware of the murder during the night and was about to solve the 
case. Now you are the final hope for exposing the culprit before 
the train reaches Constantinople. Hurry, the train is moving!
Work together to solve all the riddles surrounding this 
mysterious murder and deliver the culprit to the police before he 
or she can escape.

IMPORTANT: Do not look closely at any of the game materials 
before starting the game! Do not leaf through the book yet, and 
do not look at the front of the cards yet. Wait until “the game” tells you to.
Game materials
86 	Cards
	 	24 Riddle Cards
	 	30 Answer Cards
	 	32 Help Cards
	 2	Strange items
	 3	Sealed sheets
	 1	Book
	 1	Decoder disk
In addition, you will need something to write with (ideally ball-point 
pens, pencils, and an eraser), one or more sheets of paper, and a watch 
(ideally a stopwatch), to keep track of time. A pair of scissors will make the 
game easier to play. If you don’t have any available, you can still play and 
just rip the materials with your hands. 
Game setup
Get the book and the decoder disk ready on the table. Leave the 
“strange items” and “sealed sheets” in the box for now. Sort the cards 
into three piles in accordance with what is written on their back sides:
> Riddle Cards	
> Answer Cards	
> Help Cards
Check to be sure that the Riddle Cards and Answer Cards are arranged 
in ascending order according to their letters or numbers.
Sort the Help Cards according to their symbols, and then place them 
on the side of the table. Place cards with the same symbol, one on top 
of another, such that the “1st CLUE” card is on top of the “2nd CLUE” card 
and the latter is on top of the “SOLUTION” card.
Exception: There are five help cards with the symbol.
Be sure not to look at the front 
sides of any of the cards yet.

Where is the game board?
This game has no game board! You will have to figure out 
for yourselves what you have to find in the game and what 
the setting looks like. At the beginning of the game, you will 
have only the book and the decoder disk available to you. 
As the game continues, you will add the Riddle Cards — 
either to be found in illustrations, or referred to in the text. 
Whenever this happens, you can pick the corresponding cards 
from the Riddle Card pile and look at them. 
Likewise, you can only use the “strange items” and the “sealed 
sheets” in the box when explicitly told that you have found 
them. Until then, leave them untouched in the box!
Example:
If you find an illustration like this, you may 
immediately pull the corresponding Riddle Card 
out of the pile and look at it.
Course of play
Your goal is to solve the murder case together in the shortest possible 
time.
That would definitely be easier if not for the fact that every lock in 
the train is secured with a riddle. As soon as the game starts, you may 
look at all the pages of the book. During the course of the game, you 
will keep finding objects that are locked with a three-digit key code. To 
open them, you will have to figure out the matching code and enter it 
into the decoder disk. At the edge of the disk, you will see 10 different 
symbols. Each symbol stands for a code to be cracked. But you will 
have to figure out for yourselves which symbol belongs to which code. 
You will want to be sure to pay attention to every detail. If you think 
you can crack a code, enter it under the corresponding symbol on the 
disk. Then, look through the viewing window on the smallest wheel to 
see a number. 

 
This number indicates the number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to look at. If the code is incorrect, you will have to keep 
searching for a solution or switch to another riddle for the time being.
If the code is correct, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue.
Example:
For the riddle with the symbol, 
you have come up with 3 1 8 
as the code. You enter this combination 
under the symbol on the decoder disk.
In the little window, you will see the 
number of the Answer Card that you 
are then allowed to pull out of the 
pile and look at.
 Is the code incorrect?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you. In that case, simply 
return the card to the pile and take another look at the 
riddle that you failed to solve. Maybe there’s something 
that you overlooked. Or it may be that you simply don’t 
yet have the hints that you need to solve it. Then you 
will just have to continue someplace else.
 Is the code possibly correct?
If so, the Answer Card will look like this:
 Where will you see the code symbol?
Good question! To answer it, you will have to take 
a close look at the pictures in the book or on the 
Riddle Cards. All possible locked objects can be 
found in those places.
All of these objects are marked with a symbol. 
Our example involves the kitchen door with the 
 symbol on it. 
When you are done, 
place this card back 
in the stack of Answer Cards!
Monsieur Pussot would 
be furious about this 
solution attempt. 
Unfortunately, 
the code is not correct!
When you are done, 
place this card back 
in the stack of Answer Cards!
The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?

IMPORTANT: 
 
 Whether wrong or right — return all Answer Cards to the Answer Card pile.
 
 All codes can be solved logically. You shouldn’t just try all possible 
combinations on the disk.
To continue with this example scenario: Next, 
you will take a look at the Answer Card next to 
the kitchen door and see that you should now 
retrieve Answer Card 26 from the pile.
NOTE: You have to see the object with the symbol on a Riddle Card or 
in the book in order to be able to open it. You cannot open something 
that you have not found — just like in an actual room.
 Is the code really correct?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue. You will find one or 
more new Riddle Cards which you will be allowed to pull from the pile 
and look at immediately.
 Is the code actually incorrect?
Well, in that case you must have made a mistake. You will just have to 
think about it some more and come up with a different code.
Need some help?
Of course, the game can provide you assistance if you get stuck. For 
each code, there are three Help Cards that can be recognized by the 
symbol on their back sides.
In addition to giving you an initial useful clue, each “1st CLUE” Help 
Card also tells you which Riddle Cards you must have found in order to 
be able to solve the corresponding riddle.
The “2nd CLUE” Help Cards will give you somewhat more concrete 
assistance in finding a solution to the corresponding riddle.
The “SOLUTION” Help Cards provide the solution to the riddle.

IMPORTANT: Always take the Help Cards for a specific Riddle Card or riddle in the 
book. These riddles are usually identified with a symbol (matching a symbol on 
the decoder disk). It won’t help you to use Help Cards if you have not found a 
riddle with the corresponding symbol.
IMPORTANT: You can write on, fold, or tear the materials ... 
All of this is allowed, and sometimes even required. You can only play the 
game once — after which you will know all the riddles, and won’t need the 
game materials any longer! If you like, you can also use scissors to cut the 
materials rather than tearing them.
So have a little patience — some of the riddles can only be solved with 
the help of several Riddle Cards. You won’t always have all of them 
available to you right away. Sometimes, you will first have to grapple 
with other riddles to get more cards. But don’t be shy about using Help 
Cards if you get stuck.
Once you have used a Help Card, place it on a discard pile.
Additional game materials
In addition to the materials contained in the box, you will need 
a pencil and paper for taking notes.
You will also need a watch/stopwatch.
When does the game end?
The game ends when you have solved the last riddle and solved the 
murder. A card will tell you that. Start a stopwatch at the beginning of 
the game so you know how long you needed.
You can look at the table on the next page to see how well you did.
When calculating the number of Help Cards used, only the ones that 
gave you new hints or solutions should be counted. If a Help Card 

694029-02-010318
only had something that you knew anyway, do not include it in the 
calculation.
One final tip
Any game materials that you successfully used to help solve a riddle 
should be set aside, but not put away. This way, you will be able to 
keep track of the materials more easily and won’t get them mixed up. 
The only things that you will need for more than one riddle are the 
illustrations of the rooms (e.g., train cars and compartments).
The game begins
What are you waiting for? Start the stopwatch and solve the murder 
case before it’s too late. Now you are allowed to look at all the pages 
of the book and begin solving riddles. If anything is unclear, don’t be 
shy about looking something up in the rulebook during the game.
Inka & Markus Brand and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
The Authors:
Inka & Markus Brand live with their children Lukas and Emely in 
Gummersbach, Germany. They have published many children’s 
and family games together and won numerous prizes. 
Of course, they are avid riddle and escape game fans.
EXIT concept: Kosmos 
(Ralph Querfurth, Sandra Dochtermann)
Illustration: Claus Stephan
Cover illustration: Silvia Christoph
Title graphics: Michaela Kienle
Graphics: Sensit Communication GmbH
Editing: Ralph Querfurth
Translation: David Gamon
English edition editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire	
	
	
No 	
1–2	
3–5	
6–10	
> 10 
	
	
	 < 60 Min.	
10 stars	
8 stars	
	 < 90 Min.	
9 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars
	 < 120 Min.	
8 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars	
2 stars
	 > 120 Min.	
2 stars	
1 star
© 2017 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-
GmbH & Co. KG. Pfizerstr. 5-7, 
D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; 
Web: kosmos.de
© 2018 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, 
Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered 
trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en 
Allemagne
Distributed in North America by 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, 
RI 02903. Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by 
Thames & Kosmos UK LP. Cranbrook, 
Kent TN17 3HE. Phone: 01580 713000 
Web: www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk

The following players rode the Orient Express:
	
on in 
 
Did they succeed in solving the murder case correctly?
	
Yes	
(+2 stars)
	
No
	
To do it, it took	
and
	
They used a total of 	
Help Cards.
	
This earned them 	
stars in the assessment!
 
	
The coolest riddle was
	
The trickiest riddle was 
	 The player who solved this riddle was 
1 |
2 |
3 |
4 |
5 |
6 |
Minutes
Seconds
Share your Exit experiences using #exitstrategies