CAUTION: Do not look at the playing materials (cards, book, etc.) yet! 
First, read this manual together out loud and carefully follow all of its instructions.
For 1-4 players, ages 12 and up
Search for the 
“Kosmos Helper
App” in the iOS 
App Store or in
Google Play.
For Android 4, iOS 8, and Fire OS 4 
and newer
Atmospheric soundtrack
Digital timer 
Three bonus riddles
Download the free bonus app
Helper App
What’s the game about?
It’s finally vacation time again! This year, it’s a trip to an idyllic village 
in the mountains. To avoid another breakdown*, this time you’re 
taking the train! Three hours behind schedule, you arrive at your 
vacation rental, where you find brochures with ideas for outings — 
including an impressive castle. The flyer looks a little amateurish and 
homemade, but you’re really into medieval buildings!
The next day, you set out and hike to the castle. No ticket 
booth, nobody else around. So much the better, you can 
explore undisturbed! Soon, you have entered the castle and find 
yourselves in a magnificent throne room. All of a sudden, the great 
wooden door slams shut and you realize (yet again) that this 
might not have been such a good idea ...
The castle is filled with riddles. You will only be able to escape 
if you manage to solve all of the riddles in time. Otherwise, your 
creepy host will never let you leave.

IMPORTANT: Do not look closely at any of the game materials 
before starting the game! Do not leaf through the book yet, and 
do not look at the fronts of the cards yet. Wait until “the game” tells you to.
Game materials
88	Cards
	 	24 Riddle Cards
	 	31 Answer Cards
	 	33 Help Cards
	 4	Strange items
	 1	Book
	 1	Decoder disk
In addition, you will need something to write with (ideally ball-point 
pens, pencils, and an eraser), one or more sheets of paper and a watch 
(ideally a stopwatch), to keep track of the time. A pair of scissors will 
make the game easier to play. If you don’t have any available, you can still 
play and just rip the materials with your hands.
Game setup
Get the book and decoder disk ready on the table. Leave the “strange 
items” in the box for now. Sort the cards into three piles in accordance 
with what is written on their back sides:
> Riddle Cards	
> Answer Cards	
> Help Cards
Check to be sure that the Riddle Cards and Answer Cards are arranged 
in ascending order according to their letters or numbers.
Sort the Help Cards according to their symbols, and then place them 
on the side of the table. Place cards with the same symbol, one on top 
of another, such that the “1st CLUE” card is on top of the “2nd CLUE” card 
and the latter is on top of the “SOLUTION” card.
Exception: For the symbol, there is just 1 Help Card.
Rätsel-Karte
Rätsel-Karte
Riddle Card
Lösungs-Karte
Lösungs-Karte
If you need help 
translating the 
numbers 0 to 9 
into key parts for the 
decoder disk, take a 
look at this Help Card.
Be sure not to look at the 
front sides of any of the cards.

Where is the game board?
This game has no game board! You will have to figure out for 
yourselves what you have to find in the game and what the 
rooms look like. At the beginning of the game, you will have 
only the book and the decoder disk available to you. 
As the game continues, you will add the Riddle Cards — 
either to be found in illustrations, or referred to in the text. 
Whenever this happens, you can pick the corresponding 
cards from the Riddle Card pile and look at them. 
Likewise, you can only use the “strange items” in the box when 
explicitly told that you have found them. Until then, leave them 
untouched in the box!
Example:
If you find an illustration like this, you may 
immediately pull the corresponding Riddle 
Card out of the pile and look at it.
Course of play
Your goal is to escape together from the forbidden castle as quickly as 
you can.
That would definitely be easier if not for the fact that every lock in 
the room is secured with a riddle. As soon as the game starts, you may 
look at all the pages of the book. During the course of the game, you 
will keep finding objects that are locked with a three-part key code. To 
open them, you will have to figure out the matching code and enter it 
into the decoder disk. At the edge of the disk, you will see 10 different 
symbols. Each symbol stands for a code to be cracked. But you will 
have to figure out for yourselves which symbol belongs to which code. 
You will want to be sure to pay attention to every detail. If you think 
you can crack a code, enter it under the corresponding symbol on the 
disk. Then, look through the viewing window on the smallest wheel to 
see a number. 

 
This number indicates the number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to look at. If the code is incorrect, you will have to keep 
searching for a solution or switch to another riddle for the time being. 
If the code is correct, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue.
Example:
For the riddle with the symbol, you 
came up with as the key. 
You enter this combination under the 
 symbol on the decoder disk.
In the little window, you will see the 
number of the Answer Card that you are 
then allowed to pull out of the pile 
and look at.
 Is the code incorrect?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you. In that case, simply 
return the card to the pile and take another look at the 
riddle that you failed to solve. Maybe there’s something 
that you overlooked. Or it may be that you simply don’t 
yet have the hints that you need to solve it. Then you 
will just have to continue someplace else.
 Is the code possibly correct?
If so, the Answer Card will look like this:
 Where will you see the code symbol?
Good question! To answer it, you will have to take 
a close look at the pictures in the book or on the 
Riddle Cards. All possible locked objects can be 
found in those places.
All of these objects are marked with a symbol. 
Our example involves the table with the 
 symbol on it.
When you are done, 
place this card back 
in the stack of Answer Cards!
If things keep going 
like this, you really 
will have a problem.
Unfortunately, 
the code is not correct!
When you are done, 
place this card back 
in the stack of Answer Cards!
The code may be right.
Where do you see the code symbol?
Card
Card

IMPORTANT: 
 
 Whether wrong or right — return all Answer Cards to the Answer Card pile. 
 
 All codes can be solved logically. You shouldn’t just try all possible 
combinations on the disk.
To continue with this example scenario: Next, 
you will take a look at the Answer Card next to 
the table and see that you should now retrieve 
Answer Card 15 from the pile.
NOTE: You have to see the object with the symbol on a Riddle Card or 
in the book in order to be able to open it. You cannot open something 
that you have not found — just like in an actual room.
 Is the code really correct?
If so, the Answer Card will tell you how to continue. You will find one or 
more new Riddle Cards which you will be allowed to pull from the pile 
and look at immediately.
 Is the code actually incorrect?
Well, in that case you must have made a mistake. You will just have to 
think about it some more and come up with a different code.
Need some help?
Of course, the game can provide you assistance if you get stuck. For 
each code, there are three Help Cards that can be recognized by the 
symbol on their back sides.
In addition to giving you an initial useful clue, each “1st CLUE” Help 
Card also tells you which Riddle Cards you must have found in order to 
be able to solve the corresponding riddle.
The “2nd CLUE” Help Cards will give you somewhat more concrete 
assistance in finding a solution to the corresponding riddle.
The “SOLUTION” Help Cards provide the solution to the riddle.

IMPORTANT: Always take the Help Cards for a specific Riddle Card 
or riddle in the book. These riddles are usually identified with a symbol 
(matching a symbol on the decoder disk). It won’t help you to use Help Cards 
if you have not found a riddle with the corresponding symbol.
IMPORTANT: You can write on, fold, or tear the materials ... 
All of this is allowed, and sometimes even required. You can only play the 
game once — after which you will know all the riddles, and won’t need the 
game materials any longer! If you like, you can also use scissors, to cut the 
materials rather than tearing them.
So have a little patience — some of the riddles can only be solved with 
the help of several Riddle Cards. You won’t always have all of them 
available to you right away. Sometimes, you will first have to grapple 
with other riddles to get more cards. But don’t be shy about using Help 
Cards if you get stuck. 
Once you have used a Help Card, place it on a discard pile.
Additional playing materials
In addition to the materials contained in the box, you will need 
a pencil and paper for taking notes.
You will also need a watch/stopwatch.
When does the game end?
The game ends when you have solved the last riddle and escaped from 
the forbidden castle. A card will tell you that. Start a stopwatch (or 
check the time) at the beginning of the game so you know how long 
you needed.
You can look at the table on the next page to see how well you did.
When calculating the number of Help Cards used, only the ones that 
gave you new hints or solutions should be counted. If a Help Card 

only had something that you knew anyway, do not include it in the 
calculation.
One final tip
Any game materials that you successfully used to help solve a riddle 
should be set aside, but not put away. You might need some materials 
again. But his way, you will be able to keep track of the materials more 
easily and won’t get them mixed up. For some of the riddles, the only 
things that you will need are the illustrations of the rooms.
The game begins
What are you waiting for? Start the stopwatch and get out of the 
forbidden castle before it’s too late! Now you are allowed to look at 
the entire book and begin solving riddles. If anything is unclear, don’t 
be shy about looking something up in the manual during the game.
	
	
No 	
1–2	
3–5	
6–10	
> 10 
	
	
	 < 60 Min.	
10 stars	
8 stars	
	 < 90 Min.	
9 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars
	 < 120 Min.	
8 stars	
6 stars	
3 stars	
2 stars
	 > 120 Min.	
2 stars	
1 star
Inka & Markus Brand and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
The Authors:
Inka & Markus Brand live with their children Lukas and Emely in 
Gummersbach, Germany. They have published many children’s 
and family games together and won numerous prizes. 
Of course, they are avid riddle and escape game fans.
EXIT concept: Kosmos 
(Ralph Querfurth, Sandra Dochtermann)
Illustration: Franz Vohwinkel
Cover illustration: Silvia Christoph
Title graphics: Michaela Kienle
Graphic design: Sensit Communication
Editing: Ralph Querfurth
Translation: David Gamon
English edition editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire, Ashley Greenleaf
	
© 2017 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-
GmbH & Co. KG. Pfizerstr. 5-7, 
D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; 
Web: kosmos.de
© 2017 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, 
Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered 
trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en 
Allemagne
Distributed in North America by 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, 
RI 02903. Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by 
Thames & Kosmos UK LP. Cranbrook, 
Kent TN17 3HE. Phone: 01580 713000 
Web: www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk
692872-02-200717

The following players
	 on in 
 
successfully escaped from the forbidden castle. 
What an outstanding accomplishment, and how fortunate that they now 
won’t have to be locked up forever inside the castle!
	
To do it, it took them	
and
	
They used a total of 	
Help Cards.
	
This earned them 	
stars in the assessment!
 
	
The coolest riddle was
	
The trickiest riddle was 
	The player who solved this riddle was 
 We chose the 	 golden side of the chest.
 
black
1 |
2 |
3 |
4 |
5 |
6 |
Minutes
Seconds
Share your Exit experiences using #exitstrategies