Object of the Game
To be the first to collect 5 cards by identifying images and correctly 
answering questions about the images.
Players
Eye Know can be played by two or more 
players or teams.
Equipment
 • 400 game cards 
 • Two 6-sided dice
Setting Up
	1	 Deal out 12 cards from one of the 
decks onto the game board in a 
4x3 grid.
	2 Place extra cards on the “draw 
pile” space.
3		 Choose a player to go first.
Playing Your Turn
1. Roll the Dice
When it is your turn, you must roll both of the dice. 
	 	 • The colored die indicates the color of card you must choose.
 • The numbered die indicates which type of question you must answer. 
2. Identify an Image
Select a card whose color matches the color showing on the die.
	1	 Point to the image you chose and guess the name of the object or 
symbol shown on the front of the card. The description at the bottom of 
the image provides a hint as to what is to be identified. 
	2	 The person to your right picks up the card and confirms whether your 
guess is correct. If your guess is incorrect, your turn is over, the card is 
discarded and a new one is drawn to replace it on the grid.
Basic Instructions
3. Answer a Trivia Question
If you correctly identify the image, the person to your right then reads the 
question corresponding to the number showing on the die. 
• If your answer is incorrect, the card is discarded.
• If your answer is correct, you get to keep that card.
Either way, draw a new card and place it into the vacant space on the grid.
Play passes to the player on your left. 
Winning the Game
The first player to collect 5 cards wins!
True/False
Multiple 
Choice
Open-Ended
Playing with younger players?
Rather than using the dice, you may choose to allow 
younger players to select any image from the grid and 
answer any one of the three questions on the card.

Eye Know® is a trademark of Agnosco Corporation. Used under license. 
All rights reserved. Wiggles 3D Incorporated ©2014. 
www.Wiggles3D.com • 866-801-4263 • info@wiggles3d.com
Printed in China. 02-90040-001 February 2014 
Eye Know Classic
(With Betting Chips)
YOUR BET
Pays 
True or False
1 chip
 2 chips
3 chips
4 chips
5 chips
Multiple Choice
2 chips
4 chips
6 chips
8 chips
10 chips
Open-Ended
3 chips
6 chips
9 chips
12 chips
15 chips
Object of the Game
To collect more chips than your opponents.
Setting Up
	1 Arrange 12 cards in a 4x3 grid on the game board.
	2 Place extra cards on the “draw pile” space.
	3	 Hand out five chips to each player. 
	4	 Choose a player to go first.
Playing Your Turn
1. Identify an Image
When it is your turn, you choose any one of the 12 images on the grid.
Select an image that you believe you can identify correctly by 
pointing to the card and making a guess.
The person to your right picks up the card and confirms if you are 
right.
If you correctly identified the image you receive one chip and have 
earned the right to play the trivia question to earn more chips. If your 
guess was incorrect your turn is over and the card is discarded.
2. Answer a Question
When you correctly identify an image, you earn the right to play one 
of the three trivia questions about that image and earn more chips by 
betting on what you know about that topic.
	1 Begin by placing a bet of at least one chip, up to a maximum of 5 
chips.
	2	 You must then choose which level of trivia question to attempt to 
answer. See the “Your Bet” chart for a description of the payoff 
you can earn at each level.
	3	 Another player then reads the chosen question from the back 
of the card. If you answer correctly, you get your bet back and 
the banker awards chips to you as indicated in the table. If your 
answer is incorrect, you lose your bet and gets put back into the 
bank.
Betting Chips are not included in this game. To 
play with these rules you will need to supply your 
own betting chips (or keep score on paper).
 4	 Whether or not the question is answered correctly, the player who 
identified the image keeps that card.
	5	 Draw a new card and place it into the vacant space on the grid.
	6	 Play passes to the player on your left. Keep playing until each player 
has had five turns.
Cashing in Card Sets
When all players have had five turns, they may earn additional chips by 
cashing in sets formed by the colors of the cards they earned.
SET TYPE
BONUS
Three cards from the same color
5 chips
Four cards from the same color
10 chips
One card from each color
15 chips
Five cards from the same color
20 chips
Players must choose how to divide their cards into a set to earn the best 
score. No card may be used in more than one set. 
Winning the Game
Once each player has played five turns, and all players have had a chance 
to cash in their sets, the player with the most chips wins the game.