Log of Important Changes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
1. 0 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
2. 0 Key Words & Concepts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3. 0 Sequence of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4. 0 Reinforcement & Admin Phases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
5. 0 Stacking & Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
6. 0 Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
7. 0 Reaction & Breakthrough Phases . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
8. 0 Special Actions & Staff Functions . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
9. 0 Supply Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
10. 0 Designer’s Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
11. 0 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
12. 0 Game Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
13. 0 Definition of Standard Terms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
14. 0 General Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
15. 0 Unit Rules Specific to this Game . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
16. 0 Asset Rules Specific to this Game . . . . . . . . . . . 18
17. 0 Event Descriptions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
18. 0 Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
19. 0 Determining Victory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
Series Design by Rick Young
Golan ’73 Design by Michael Gustavsson and Rick Young
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Series Rule Book

Page 2
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The Fast Action Battles (FAB) series of games are designed 
to recreate important battles of the early to mid 20th Century, 
using wooden blocks to represent the major combat formations 
(units) and die-cut counters to represent the supporting ele-
ments (assets).
As the field commander for your chosen side, you must decide 
how to make the best use of your units, reserves, assets, and 
Special Actions towards fulfilling your assigned objectives.
These games are designed to impart a good sense of the his-
tory and to play fast (compared to other wargames on the same 
topic), while being both fun and challenging. Enjoy the games!
There are references to other rules – e.g. (4.3) – throughout 
these booklets. These references may be ignored when reading 
through the rules for the first time. They are provided to help 
you find a rule that you might be seeking during play.
Log of Important Changes (Volume 2)
Log of Important Changes (Volume 3)
Series Rules
For continuity of understanding, we note 
the previous important updates made to the 
Series Rules as published in Volume 2.
●4.34 – Delete “when a friendly unit 
enters the area”.
●4.34 – The following change in the 
Official FAQ was not included but see 
the update to 5.32: Change “one ad-
ditional movement point to enter” to 
read “one additional movement point 
to enter (but not in addition to the +1 
paid if friendly forces are present)”.
●5.1 – Add a new sentence after “two 
units of each side.” as follows: “No 
unit may voluntarily end its move 
overstacked.”
●5.32 – Insert “and/or asset(s)” to read 
“Entering an area that already con-
tains unit(s) and/or assets(s), friendly 
and/or enemy, costs one additional 
movement point (total).”
●5.35c – Change “into a contested area 
each Movement Phase.” to read “into 
an enemy-occupied area each Move-
ment Phase.”
●6.22 – New limit added: up to eight 
available battle assets.
●6.23 – New limit added: up to five 
available battle assets.
●6.6 – Insert the following: “If there is 
a choice, the area chosen must contain 
one or fewer units. If all such adjoin-
ing areas contain two friendly units, 
the unit must continue to retreat as 
above and continue to do so, moving 
toward (until reaching) the nearest 
uncontested, friendly-controlled area 
that contains one or fewer units.”
●9.31c – Delete “A supply path can-
not pass through a vacant area that is 
adjacent to an enemy-controlled area 
with one or more uncontested enemy 
units.”
Aside from minor editorial changes and 
clarifications, the following important up-
dates have been made to the Series Rules 
as previously published in both volumes 1 
and 2.
●3.24 – Change “are resolved,” to read 
“are resolved, one combat round per 
selected area,”.
●6.1 – Append “Only one combat 
round per selected area is resolved per 
Combat Phase.”
●6.24 – Change “Each firing unit (and 
asset) compares” to read “Each firing 
unit (and asset) will compare during 
each subsequent firing step”.
●6.42c – Append “Any asset that is not 
allowed to retreat per the Exclusive 
Rules is destroyed and its loss counts 
as a hit taken for each such asset 
destroyed.”
2.0 KEY WORDS & CONCEPTS
2.1 GENERAL
10-sided Dice—Regardless of any modifiers and the purpose 
of the die roll, a roll of 1 will always result in success and a 
roll of 10 will always result in failure. The dice included with 
each FAB game are numbered from 1 to 10. If you are using 
ten-sided dice that are numbered from 0 to 9, treat each roll of 
a 0 as a roll of 10.
Exclusive Rules—The Exclusive Rules (those beginning with 
section 11.0) represent rules that are specific to the battle being 
portrayed. If they contradict the Series Rules (sections 1-10), 
the Exclusive Rules take precedence.
First Player—This is the player that moves first each turn 
(13.1).
Selection Cup—This is an opaque container, such as a coffee 
cup, from which assets and events are drawn at random. Each 
player needs a selection cup (not included in the game).
Status Boxes—Each player has his own set of Status Boxes 
on the map sheet. The Available Box holds the assets/events 
that are playable; the Used Box holds the assets that have been 
used in the current game turn; and the Eliminated Box holds 
all used events and units/assets that have been eliminated.

Page 3
Success Number—This is the number needed (or less) on a 
10-sided die to succeed in what you are attempting. The ba-
sic Success Number is always 5. This can be modified up or 
down by applicable modifiers. These modifiers are listed in the 
Combat Table on the Player-Aid Card and in the appropriate 
rule sections.
2.2 UNITS, ASSETS, EVENTS, & MARKERS
Units—These are the main combat and maneu-
ver elements. Each unit’s size depends on the 
battle portrayed, but is usually a Regiment or 
larger, and it is represented by a wood block with 
a label that has been applied according to sec-
tion 13.2. Blocks are normally placed on edge, with the labels 
facing away from your opponent, providing a built-in limited 
intelligence system. The current step value should be along the 
topmost edge of the playing piece. The highest value on each 
label represents that unit at full-strength.
Assets—These die-cut counters represent small formations 
which you can assign to the battles that you deem most crucial. 
There are two types of combat assets for game pur-
poses; indirect-support (artillery, naval gunfire, 
etc.), and direct-support (independent formations of 
engineers, infantry, armor, etc.). For brevity, these 
asset types shall hereafter be called artillery assets 
and battle assets, respectively. Various non-combat 
assets may also be included, depending on the bat-
tle portrayed (command staff, fuel, etc.).
Events—Each die-cut event contains the title of the event that 
it represents and the game turn that the chit gets added to the 
selection cup. Events include replacements, Special 
Actions, and other events that did or likely could 
have occurred in the battle. The use of each event is 
explained in section 17.0. 
Special Actions—Special Actions represent an ex-
tra effort of command and supplies used to prompt 
units to perform above and beyond the normal 
course of duty (8.0).
Game Markers—These die-cut counters are used 
to track game information, unit status, and to de-
note such things as field works, blown bridges, and 
river assaults on the map sheet.
2.3 UNIT DETAILS
Armor & Infantry Class—Units and assets that are armor class 
represent formations with significant armor components. Units 
and assets that are infantry class represent formations without 
significant armor components. Rule 13.3 shows which unit and 
battle asset types are in each class and rule 13.4 (if defined) 
identifies information and symbols on the units and markers.
Good Order—Units without either a disordered or a recovering 
marker are said to be in good order and they operate with nor-
mal capabilities. 
Disordered—Units (not assets) can become disordered, which 
affects their capabilities until they recover (6.5). Such units are 
marked with either a disordered or a recovering marker.
Higher Echelons—Rule 13.2 identifies the 
Higher Echelons (Corps or Army HQ’s) 
and their identifying colors. These Higher 
Echelons are an administrative concept and 
are not represented by actual game pieces, but 
all the units, assets, and events in the game will show which 
Higher Echelon they belong to by the colors on their labels and 
counters (shown as the background of the counters for events 
and within the unit symbols for units and assets).
Morale Checks—At certain times the rules will call for a unit 
to make a morale check against its troop quality to see if it is 
able to endure the stress of the task requested of it (6.7).
Point Unit—This is the unit that leads the attack for the 
Attacker or defends the key approaches for the Defender. Both 
sides designate a point unit for each combat (6.24).
Reserve Units—These are units that have been 
marked with a reserve marker, which are limited by 
the counter-mix. Reserve units may move during a 
future Movement Phase (5.21).
Steps/Step-Losses—Steps are the increments by which units 
are built-up by certain events (or Special Action usage) and 
depleted by step-losses. Steps are represented by the number of 
pips on the outside edge of the unit labels, with the current step 
value being on the uppermost edge. If a multi-step unit suffers 
a step-loss, reduce its current step value by rotating the block 
90 degrees counter-clockwise. If a unit with only one step re-
maining suffers a step-loss, it is eliminated.
Troop Quality—This represents the skill, equipment, training, 
and motivation of the units/assets, and is shown by 
the color of the pips on the edge of the piece. Red 
pips represent elite quality troops, black pips repre-
sent veteran quality troops, and white pips represent 
green quality troops. Current troop quality may 
change as the unit’s current step value changes. A 
unit’s current troop quality may provide Success 
Number modifiers for combat and morale checks.
Unit Status—This refers to a unit’s current condition (good 
order or disordered; supplied or unsupplied; marked as a re-
serve or not).
2.4 AREAS
Area—Each numbered and named playing space on the map is 
called an area. Units in play should always be within an area.
Contested & Uncontested Areas—An area containing forces 
from both sides is said to be contested. An area containing no 
forces or forces of only one side is said to be uncontested.
Controlled Areas (friendly and enemy)—Each area is con-
trolled by one side or the other, whether contested or not. An 
area is controlled by the side that was the last sole-occupant. 
Players begin each scenario controlling all areas identified 
by the scenario rules (22.0). Change of an area’s control oc-
curs at the instant one or more of the other side’s units are the 
sole-occupants. Assets may retain, but do not change an area’s 
control. Use control markers for areas where the controlling 
side is not obvious (9.2).
VETERAN
ELITE
GREEN

Page 4
Terrain—Apart from certain boundaries and blown bridges, 
terrain has no effect on movement. The terrain difficulty 
symbol shown within each area matches a Terrain Difficulty 
Number on the Map Legend which is a modifier that is applied 
against the Attacker’s ground fire (6.28).
Newly Contested Area—A newly contested area is an area 
containing units of both sides, where the area was uncontested 
prior to the just completed Movement Phase. Newly contested 
areas are recognizable at the start of the Combat Phase by the 
units within them not yet being displayed face-up. 
3.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
3.1 REINFORCEMENT PHASE
Both players receive new units, assets, and events, and also 
relocate assets from the Used Box (4.1).
3.2 FIRST PLAYER TURN
The First Player moves first in each game turn and is the 
Phasing Player for steps 3.21 through 3.28 below. The Second 
Player is the Non-phasing Player.
3.21 Admin Phase
Assets and events are added to the Available Box (4.2a). Events 
and engineering assets may then be played by both players 
(4.2b & 4.2c).
3.22 Operational Movement Phase
Each of the Phasing Player’s units may move, build field works, 
hold its position, or be marked as a reserve (5.21 – 5.24).
3.23 Strategic Movement Phase
The Phasing Player may move units marked with a reserve 
marker via strategic movement (5.4). Restrictions that apply 
are found in 14.8. 
3.24 Combat Phase
All combats required or desired by the Phasing Player are re-
solved, one combat round per selected area, in any order the 
Phasing Player determines, per the combat rules (6.0).
3.25 Reaction Phase
The Non-phasing Player moves any reserve units that he wish-
es to move, up to their full movement allowance, removing the 
reserve marker from the units that have moved (7.2).
3.26 Breakthrough Movement Phase
The Phasing Player moves any units marked with an exploita-
tion marker (6.8), any reserve units (5.21), and any other units 
he activates via Special Action (8.21) as desired, in any order 
desired (7.3). 
3.27 Breakthrough Combat Phase
A round of combat must be fought in newly contested areas, 
and may be fought elsewhere by spending a Special Action 
(8.22). Once this Combat Phase begins, there is no more move-
ment allowed for the current player turn.
3.28 Supply Phase
Both players verify the control of areas, check supply for 
friendly units, and adjust disordered markers; then the Phasing 
Player makes unsupplied morale checks; and then both players 
remove all appropriate markers (9.0). 
3.3 SECOND PLAYER TURN
The Second Player now performs Phases 3.21 through 3.28 as 
the Phasing Player, with the First Player becoming the Non-
phasing Player.
3.4 VICTORY CHECK
Victory Points are calculated (19.0) and a check is made for a 
sudden death victory (19.4).
3.5 GAME TURN ADVANCEMENT
If a sudden death victory was not achieved, advance the Game 
Turn marker to the next turn unless the last turn of the game 
was just played. In that case, check the scenario’s victory con-
ditions to determine which side has won the game. 
4.0 REINFORCEMENT & ADMIN PHASES
4.1 REINFORCEMENT PHASE
Both players perform each of the following actions in the se-
quence listed below:
a)	 If a player’s reusable Special Action was available to him 
last turn and he did not use it (it’s still in the Available Box), 
the player may move any one asset of his choice directly 
from the Used Box into the Available Box, while also keep-
ing the reusable Special Action in the Available Box for the 
current turn. Move any reusable Special Action(s) in each 
player’s Used Box into their respective Available Box.
b)	 Both players move any and all assets that remain in their 
Used Box into their respective selection cup. 
c)	 Place reinforcing units on their respective entry area(s) 
as shown on the unit label. There is no movement cost in 
placing these units in their starting areas. In games with 
multiple entry areas, the entry area letters on the map are 
labels identifying the adjoining entry areas, and are not 
areas themselves. Placement may not violate stacking, nor 
may units be placed in an enemy-controlled area unless the 
area is currently vacant. If the unit’s label lists two areas, 
the listed areas indicate a range of allowable entry areas 
(e.g. AC means the unit can be placed in Entry Area A, B, 
or C). If all indicated entry areas are currently blocked per 
the above, the unit’s arrival is delayed by one turn and it 
then arrives at the nearest allowed appropriate entry area 
(14.2). Another option would be to spend a Special Action 
to reroute the reinforcement on its indicated turn (8.27). 
Units arrive at full-strength unless otherwise indicated by 
the scenario.
d) Place reinforcing assets/events in the selection cup.

Page 5
4.2 ADMIN PHASE
This Phase occurs at the start of each player turn and is per-
formed in the following sequence:
a)	 Both players randomly draw a number of assets/events 
from their selection cup as indicated on the Turn Track (see 
example below), placing the drawn chits in the Available 
Box.
b)	 The Phasing Player may play events currently in the Avail-
able Box, and use engineer assets currently in the Available 
Box to perform engineering functions (4.3). The Phasing 
Player may also perform Staff Functions (8.3) and certain 
Special Action uses (8.25 & 8.26) at this time.
c)	 The Non-phasing Player may then play events, Staff Func-
tions, Special Actions, and engineer assets as above.
4.21 Alternate Event Use
Either player may elect to use an event to move two assets 
(not units or other events) of the owning player’s choice from 
the Eliminated Box into the selection cup, rather than for its 
printed (17.0) purpose.
4.22 Used Events
Whether used for its printed purpose or the alternative use 
above, events are single-use only and each is placed in the 
Eliminated Box after being used.
4.3 ENGINEERING FUNCTIONS
Each engineer asset in the Available Box may be used to per-
form one of the functions defined in 4.31 through 4.35 below, 
a function specified in the Exclusive Rules (14.5), or may be 
used as a battle asset during combat (6.32 & 6.33).
4.31 Blow up Bridge(s)
Bridges may be demolished (blown) where the en-
gineering player has a supplied, friendly-controlled, 
and uncontested area adjacent to the river boundary. 
Each engineer asset may blow up to two bridges 
in an Admin Phase, provided both bridges are adjacent to the 
same eligible area. Place a blown bridge marker on the affected 
river boundaries and place the engineer asset in the Used Box.
4.32 Repair a Bridge
To repair a blown bridge, the engineering player must either 
control both areas adjoining the blown bridge or control one 
area and contest the enemy-controlled one. Each engineer 
asset may repair one bridge in an Admin Phase. The friendly-
controlled area that the repair is originating from must be both 
supplied and uncontested. Remove the blown bridge marker 
and place the engineer asset in the Used Box.
4.33 Construct Field Works
Place a field works marker on any supplied, friend-
ly-controlled, uncontested area containing at least 
one friendly unit of the same Higher Echelon as the 
engineer, and then place the engineer asset in the 
Used Box.
4.34 Construct a Roadblock
Place a roadblock marker on any supplied, friend-
ly-controlled, and vacant area that has a Terrain 
Difficulty Number of one or higher, and then place 
the engineer asset in the Used Box. The effect of the 
roadblock is that for the current player turn, the first enemy unit 
that enters the area must pay one additional movement point to 
enter, and then it ends its movement in that area. The roadblock 
marker is removed when an enemy unit pays this penalty or 
during the Supply Phase of the same player turn (9.5).
4.35 Create a Defended Roadblock
Place the engineer asset itself instead of a road-
block marker in a supplied, friendly-controlled, 
and vacant area that has a Terrain Difficulty 
Number of one or higher. The defended roadblock 
is identical to the roadblock above, except that the engineer 
asset is not removed by an enemy unit entering the area, acting 
partly as a unit instead, in that it may attempt to blow bridges 
by following rule 5.35d, and it causes all enemy units to stop in 
the area, forcing them to resolve combat. During the Combat 
Round, the Defender may not use a Special Action to reinforce 
or retreat before combat and one artillery asset from the same 
Higher Echelon is the only asset that may be assigned to help 
the defending engineer (no events). If the defending engineer 
survives until the Supply Phase (with or without combat), it is 
placed in the Used Box.
Note: Only use defended roadblocks to avert a crisis, as they 
will often result in the destruction of a valuable engineer asset.
5.0 STACKING AND MOVEMENT
5.1 STACKING LIMITS
Each area may hold up to two units of each side. No unit may 
voluntarily end its move overstacked. Stacking limits are en-
forced at the end of each Phase and throughout each Combat 
Phase by retreating (6.6) any units in excess at those times. 
Units unable to legally retreat to correct overstacking are 
eliminated instead. There is no stacking limit for assets.
5.2 OPERATIONAL MOVEMENT PHASE OPTIONS
During an Operational Movement Phase, each eligible unit 
may be placed in reserve, move to another area within range of 
its movement allowance, build field works, or hold its position. 
5.21 Placing Units in Reserve
Reserve markers may be placed on eligible (14.7) units dur-
ing the Operational Movement Phase, up to the limit of the 
counter-mix. A unit that is in reserve may move either in 
the same Operational Movement Phase, in the Strategic 
Movement Phase, during a Reaction Phase, or a Breakthrough 
Operational Movement Phase. The reserve marker is removed 

Page 6
when the unit moves, when the area containing the reserve 
becomes contested, or during the enemy player’s next Supply 
Phase (9.5).
5.22 Moving to Another Area
During a friendly Operational Movement Phase, each infantry 
class unit has a movement allowance of three movement points, 
and each armor class unit has a movement allowance of six 
movement points. No unit may exceed its movement allow-
ance unless moving only one area (5.33). Units are revealed 
(placed face-up) when entering a contested area if the other 
forces within that area are already face-up from a prior Combat 
Round, even if the existing units leave to allow new units to en-
ter. Otherwise the area containing enemy units becomes newly 
contested and the units remain upright until the Combat Phase.
5.23 Building Field Works
A unit may expend its entire movement allowance in an un-
contested area to place a field works marker in that area. Only 
supplied units in good order may build field works. No area 
can contain more than one field works marker. All units 
friendly to the unit that built the field works benefit from it in 
that area. A field works marker is removed when it absorbs the 
first hit in combat, when the area does not contain a friendly 
unit at the end of any Phase, by an enemy engineer in combat 
(6.33), or when the area is contested during any Supply Phase. 
Field works never benefit enemy units. Enemy units have a –1 
Success Number modifier when firing at friendly infantry units 
that are in field works at the time the attacking dice are rolled.
5.24 Hold Position
The unit neither moves nor changes its status.
5.3 OPERATIONAL MOVEMENT
5.31 Boundaries & Connections
Each area is separated from other areas by its boundaries. 
Units use connections to cross those boundaries, which costs 
movement points. The Exclusive Rules may introduce other 
boundary and/or connection types (14.1).
Boundary Types—The standard boundary types are as follows:
●Open boundary→
●River boundary→
A bridge always exists on each 
river boundary unless a blown 
bridge marker is present
Blown bridges affect movement 
Connection Types—The standard connection types are as follows:
●Road connection→
Basic movement cost: 1 MP 
Where a primary road con-
nects two adjacent areas
Primary roads connecting to 
adjacent areas do not have to 
be connected to each other in-
side an area
●Field connection→
Basic movement cost: 2 MP 
Where no primary road con-
nects two adjacent areas 
5.32 Movement Point Costs Between Areas
Units may move between adjoining areas. Units may not move 
diagonally across the point where boundaries intersect. The 
movement costs are as follows:
●If a road connects two areas (whether crossing over an open 
or a river boundary), the crossing costs one movement point.
●Otherwise, it is a field connection (whether crossing over an 
open or river boundary) and the crossing costs two move-
ment points.
●A river boundary where the bridge has been blown costs a 
unit its entire movement allowance to cross. This supersedes 
the two previous bullet points.
●Entering an area that already contains unit(s) and/or assets(s), 
friendly and/or enemy, costs one additional movement point 
(total).
●Units exiting a contested area pay one additional movement 
point (5.34).
●Unsupplied and/or disordered units are only permitted to 
move into an adjacent area (5.33).
5.33 Guaranteed Minimum Movement
A unit may always move from its starting point to a non-pro-
hibited adjacent area, even if such a move would exceed its 
movement allowance.
5.34 Exiting a Contested Area
If exiting a contested area, the first area entered must be both 
friendly-controlled and uncontested. From that first allowed 
area the unit may continue moving, up to the limit of its move-
ment allowance, but that unit may neither enter nor create 
another contested area during that same Movement Phase.
5.35 Other Movement Restrictions:
a)	 Units are always moved one at a time, with one unit com-
pleting its move before the next unit begins its move.
b)	 Units must stop when entering either an area containing 
enemy unit(s), asset(s) or a roadblock (4.34 & 4.35).
c)	 Only one unit may cross each river boundary (whether the 
bridge is blown or not) into an enemy-occupied area each 
Movement Phase. There is no limit on the number of units 
crossing a river boundary into uncontested areas, even if 
leaving a contested area.
d)	 A unit that attempts to cross a River boundary into a newly 
contested area triggers an opportunity for the opposing side 
to attempt to blow that bridge. This attempt is optional, and 
succeeds on a 1-5. If the bridge is blown, the unit that trig-
gered the attempt may still cross the river if it began the 
Phase adjacent to the targeted area. If the unit does not or 
cannot cross, it does not pay the movement cost for the area 
it was to have entered. It instead loses one movement point, 
but may continue moving.

Page 7
e)	 A river assault marker is placed for newly con-
tested areas where all attacking units crossed 
river boundaries into the area and at least one 
of the attacking units crossed a blown bridge 
into the area.
5.4 STRATEGIC MOVEMENT (STRAT-MOVES)
Only supplied units that are marked with a reserve marker 
may strat-move. See rule 14.8 for applicable restrictions. To 
strat-move, the unit is moved from its starting area to any other 
friendly-controlled and supplied area that it can trace a con-
tinuous path of road and field connections to, without crossing 
a blown bridge or moving into or through an enemy-controlled 
or a contested area. Remove the reserve marker from any units 
that strat-move.
6.0 COMBAT
6.1 GENERAL RULES
Combat is required for newly contested areas. Combat is op-
tional (Phasing Player’s option) where an area was already 
contested, signified by the units already being face-up at the 
start of the Combat Phase. Combats are resolved in any order 
chosen by the Attacker. Only one combat round per selected 
area is resolved per Combat Phase.
6.2 THE COMBAT ROUND
The following sequence must be followed each time there is 
a Combat Round fought within an area. For combat purposes, 
the Phasing Player is always the Attacker, and the Non-phasing 
Player is always the Defender. Disordered units may not partic-
ipate for the Attacker nor be assigned losses but do participate 
for the Defender normally (with the −1 Success Number modi-
fier for being disordered).
6.21 Defender’s Special Action Decision
The Defender may use a Special Action to reinforce or retreat 
from this battle (8.23 & 8.24). If the Defender retreats, an ex-
ploitation opportunity arises (6.8), and this Combat Round is 
over (proceed to 6.29), otherwise continue to 6.22 below.
6.22 Attacker Assigns Assets
Provided his forces present are both in supply (from the Supply 
Phase) and can currently trace a valid supply path (9.31), the 
Attacker may assign assets to this battle from his Available Box 
by placing them in the contested area. If all attacking units are 
from the same Higher Echelon, then up to two artillery assets 
and/or one event from that Echelon may be assigned for the 
Attacker, plus up to eight available battle assets from the same 
Higher Echelon as the attacking units. If units from different 
Higher Echelons are involved, then no battle assets (or events) 
may be assigned; only the artillery assets are allowed (up to 
one from each involved Higher Echelon).
6.23 Defender Assigns Assets
Provided his forces present can currently trace a valid supply 
path (9.31), the Defender may assign assets to this battle from 
his Available Box by placing them in the contested area. If all 
defending units are from the same Higher Echelon, no more 
than one artillery asset and/or one event may be assigned for 
the Defender, plus up to five battle assets from the same Higher 
Echelon as the defending units. If units from different Higher 
Echelons are involved, only one artillery asset may be assigned 
from either involved echelon (no battle assets or events chits). 
This also applies if the only defender is an asset (4.35). 
6.24 Point Units Designated, then Units Revealed
Both sides designate their point unit, Defender first. For a new-
ly contested area, the Defender designates, but does not reveal 
the point unit until the Attacker also designates his point unit. 
After both sides have designated their point units, unrevealed 
units of both sides are revealed in opposing lines, with their 
current step value facing the line of enemy units. Each firing 
unit (and asset) will compare during each subsequent firing 
step its own unit type and troop quality against the opposing 
side’s point unit to determine applicable modifiers for its own 
Success Number. The point unit for both sides will also be the 
first unit to suffer a step-loss during the Combat Round (battle 
assets may suffer losses before the point unit). The point unit 
cannot be an asset unless there is no unit present.
6.25 Attacking Artillery Fires
The Attacker rolls one die per assigned artillery asset, modi-
fying the Success Number as indicated by the Combat Table. 
All hits are then applied to the Defender per rule 6.42. If the 
point unit is eliminated, a new one must be chosen following 
rule 6.24 if any defenders remain. If all non-artillery defend-
ers are eliminated, an exploitation opportunity (6.8) arises for 
the Attacker and the Combat Round ends after any defending 
artillery fires (6.26).
6.26 Defending Artillery Fires
The Defender rolls one die per assigned artillery asset (some of 
the FAB games allow more than one for certain Defenders—
see 16.0), modifying the Success Number as indicated by the 
Combat Table. All hits are then applied to the Attacker per rule 
6.41. If the point unit is eliminated, a new one must be chosen 
as in rule 6.24 if any attackers remain. If the Attacker aborts 
the attack (6.41b), the Combat Round is over (proceed to 6.29), 
otherwise continue to rule 6.27 below. 
6.27 Defensive Ground Fire
The Defender fires his remaining units and battle assets, roll-
ing one die per firing step, modifying the Success Number as 
indicated by the Combat Table. After all dice are rolled, any 
hits are applied to the Attacker per rule 6.41, starting again 
with priority ‘a’. If the Attacker aborts the attack (6.41b), the 
Combat Round is over (proceed to rule 6.29), otherwise con-
tinue to 6.28 below. 
6.28 Offensive Ground Fire
The Attacker fires his remaining units and battle assets, roll-
ing one die per firing step, modifying the Success Number as 
indicated by the Combat Table. After all dice are rolled, any 
hits are applied per rule 6.42, starting again with priority ‘a’. If 
all defending units and battle assets are eliminated with at least 
one unapplied hit remaining, an exploitation opportunity (6.8) 
arises for the Attacker.

Page 8
6.29 End of the Combat Round
Both sides move surviving assets (artillery and battle) from the 
contested area to their own Used Box. If both sides have units 
remaining in the area, the units remain face-up in opposing 
lines within the area, otherwise the remaining units (plus any 
units that retreated) are now tipped up and faced away from 
the enemy.
6.3 ASSETS IN COMBAT
Assets are used in combat by assigning them to a battle, 
Attacker first, after the Defender decides on his retreat or rein-
force options (6.21 – 6.23). 
6.31 Artillery Assets
The Attacker may assign one or two artillery assets per battle 
while the Defender may only assign one. Artillery 
fires during the Combat Round (6.25 & 6.26). 
Artillery assets may not be assigned step-losses 
(6.43).
6.32 Battle Assets
Battle assets may be assigned to each battle if the appropriate 
conditions are met (6.22 & 6.23). Battle assets do not modify 
the current troop quality of any unit in the battle, 
nor vice-versa. Battle assets are fired with friendly 
units (6.27 & 6.28). Each battle asset that suffers a 
step-loss is eliminated.
6.33 Engineer Assets in Combat
An assigned engineer asset may automatically eliminate the 
enemy field works marker, if one exists, instead of firing as a 
battle asset (it still counts as one of your allowed battle assets 
either way). To do this the engineer asset must have survived 
artillery and defensive ground fire, and the Attacker must not 
have aborted the attack. The enemy field works 
marker is removed prior to other friendly units fir-
ing, thus negating the field works’ –1 Success 
Number modifier.
6.4 HIT DISTRIBUTION AND PRIORITIES
Hits are applied according to the following rules. All hits are 
distributed by a combination of absorbing the hits (due to abort-
ing the attack, removing field works, becoming disordered and/
or retreating from battle) and taking the hits by applying step-
losses. Players use the appropriate hit-priority sequence (6.41 
or 6.42) to apply hits against their own units and battle as-
sets. Players move eliminated units, assets and events to their 
respective Eliminated Boxes and place any large eliminated 
units on the Large Eliminated Units Track (19.2).
6.41 Hit Priorities for hits against the Attacker
a)	 Mandatory Step-Loss: The first hit is always taken either 
by having a step-loss inflicted upon the point unit or by 
eliminating any one assigned battle asset.
b)	 If more hits were scored, the Attacker must choose to either:
●Abort the Attack: Ignore all remaining hits by abort-
ing the attack. Units that abort the attack remain in the 
contested area and become disordered. For river assaults 
(5.35e), aborting unit(s) cannot remain in place; they be-
come disordered and retreat (6.6) back across the river(s) 
that they moved across. Any assets remaining that were 
assigned are sent to the Used Box.
●Apply Step-Losses: Take the remaining hits by applying 
step-losses. Follow the step-loss allocation rules of 6.43. 
6.42 Hit Priorities for hits against the Defender
a)	 Loss of Field Works if Present: The first hit in the Combat 
Round from any firing source is absorbed by removing the 
field works marker, if present.
b)	 Disorder Option due to Artillery Fire: When hits from artil-
lery are applied, one hit may be absorbed (after any field 
works marker has been removed) by placing a disordered 
marker on all defending units (not assets) that are in good 
order or recovering (6.5). If all defending units are already 
disordered or there are only defending assets present (4.35), 
this option may not be taken.
c)	 Retreat Option due to Ground Fire: When hits from offen-
sive ground fire are applied, one hit may be absorbed (after 
any field works marker has been removed) by retreating all 
units present (6.6—note that retreating units not already 
disordered become disordered). Assets are not physically 
retreated; instead, surviving assets are placed in the Used 
Box after the battle. Retreat is not possible for areas defended 
only by assets (4.35). Retreating units/assets remain suscep-
tible to priority (d) below for remaining unapplied hits. Any 
asset that is not allowed to retreat per the Exclusive Rules is 
destroyed and its loss counts as a hit taken for each such asset 
destroyed.
d)	 Apply Step-Losses: Any remaining hits (after any field 
works marker has been removed and any disorder/retreat 
option taken above) are taken by applying step-losses, us-
ing the step-loss allocation rules of 6.43. If the Attacker 
inflicts more hits than the Defender can absorb/take, an 
exploitation opportunity (6.8) arises for the Attacker.
6.43 Step-Loss Allocation
Step-losses are allocated at the discretion of each player to 
his own units and battle assets according to the following 
restrictions:
●The first unit to suffer a step-loss must be the point unit 
(battle assets may suffer losses before the point unit).
●Each friendly unit and battle asset present must receive one 
step-loss before any unit receives a second step-loss.
●After all friendly units present have taken a step-loss and 
all friendly battle assets have been eliminated by taking a 
single step-loss each, there is no further restriction on how 
the owning player distributes any remaining step-losses.

Page 9
6.5 DISORDER RESULTS & RECOVERY
Units (not assets) can become disordered (see 9.33 for effects of 
being disordered) during a Combat Phase. When this happens, 
place a disordered marker on the affected unit(s). Recovery is 
a two-step process for eligible units (see 9.35 for the proce-
dure to follow during Supply Phases). Units with a recovering 
marker suffer all the effects of being 
disordered. Units that suffer a disor-
der result while they are ‘recovering’ 
have the marker again flipped to its 
disordered side. There is no addi-
tional effect when a disorder result 
is applied to units that are already 
disordered.
6.6 RETREATS
Any time a retreat is called for, the owning player moves the 
retreating units one at a time from the retreat’s origination area 
to an adjoining, uncontested, friendly-controlled area (two re-
treating units may retreat to different areas), even if a retreat is 
across a blown bridge. If there is a choice, the area chosen must 
contain one or fewer units. If all such adjoining areas contain 
two friendly units, the unit must continue to retreat as above 
and continue to do so, moving toward (until reaching) the near-
est uncontested, friendly-controlled area that contains one or 
fewer units. If the unit cannot retreat, it must take step-loss(es) 
instead. Retreats do not require movement points. Units that 
retreat are marked with a disordered marker after retreating un-
less they retreated via Special Action (8.24). Surviving assets 
do not retreat, and are instead placed in the Used Box after the 
battle is fully resolved.
6.7 MORALE CHECKS
At certain times the rules will call for a unit/asset to make a 
morale check to determine whether it can accomplish a goal 
or sustain a challenge in game terms. A morale check is per-
formed by rolling a single 10-sided die for each affected unit/
asset, with the Success Number of 5 being modified by troop 
quality (–2 Green, +2 Elite) and/or being disordered or unsup-
plied (–1 each). A hidden unit making a morale check must be 
revealed for the duration of the roll. The penalty for failing a 
morale check varies depending on the situation and is outlined 
in the appropriate rules.
6.8 EXPLOITATION OPPORTUNITIES
If the Defender of a battle is completely eliminated 
(excluding artillery assets) by artillery fire, retreats 
via Special Action, or is eliminated by ground fire 
with at least one hit that remains unresolved, an 
exploitation opportunity results, and all attacking armor-class 
unit(s) in that area make a morale check (exception—out of 
supply units may not receive an exploitation marker and exploi-
tations never arise from river assaults or Breakthrough Combat 
Phases). A hidden unit may decline the opportunity and remain 
hidden (6.7). Armor-class units that pass this morale check have 
an exploitation marker placed on them. This allows the marked 
unit(s) to move in the Breakthrough Movement Phase (7.3).
7.0 REACTION & BREAKTHROUGH PHASES
7.1 ELIGIBILITY
The Non-phasing Player’s units that are marked with a reserve 
marker may participate in the Reaction Phase. The Phasing 
Player’s units that are marked with a reserve marker, plus 
armor-class units that are either marked with an exploitation 
marker or that have been activated by a Special Action may 
participate in the Breakthrough Phase.
7.2 REACTION PHASE
The Non-phasing Player may move friendly units marked with 
a reserve marker up to their full movement allowance, either to 
an uncontested area or to reinforce a contested area, but may 
not use them to create a newly contested area. There is no com-
bat during the Reaction Phase. Reserve units may opt to build 
field works rather than move. The reserve marker is removed 
from each unit after it moves or builds field works.
7.3 BREAKTHROUGH MOVEMENT PHASE
The Phasing Player may move units marked with reserve mark-
ers and those marked with exploitation markers, and may also 
use Special Actions to move other armor-class units as exploi-
tation units (8.21). Once breakthrough combat (7.4) begins, no 
more breakthrough movement is allowed.
7.31 Movement Restrictions
Reserve-marked units may make a normal operational move 
with their full movement allowance. Exploitation-marked units 
may only move one area and may not cross a blown bridge 
even if blown by the unit’s attempted move, in which case the 
unit cannot move at all. Either type of unit may enter contested 
areas and may build field works rather than move. Reserve 
and exploitation units are moved one at a time, in any order, 
intermingled as the Phasing Player desires. After each unit 
moves or builds field works, its reserve or exploitation marker 
is removed. Reserve units that do neither retain their reserve 
markers for use in the next player-turn’s Reaction Phase.
7.32 Newly Contested Areas
Creating newly contested areas is allowed for both reserve 
and exploitation units. A mandatory round of combat must be 
fought during the Breakthrough Combat Phase for these areas. 
Non-phasing units in these areas may attempt to blow bridges 
that the Phasing Player attempts to cross (5.35d). 
7.4 BREAKTHROUGH COMBAT PHASE
Mandatory and optional combats as described below may be 
fought in any order desired by the Phasing Player.
7.41 Mandatory Combats
One round of combat is fought in newly contested areas that 
resulted from the Breakthrough Movement Phase. This com-
bat round is fought according to the combat procedure (6.2) 
without requiring a Special Action.
7.42 Optional Combats
Additionally, already contested areas may have one round of 
combat fought in them, using the combat procedure (6.2), if 
the Phasing Player spends a Special Action to re-engage the 
area (8.22).

Page 10
8.0 SPECIAL ACTIONS & STAFF FUNCTIONS
8.1 GENERAL RULES
Special Actions come in two types, reusable and single-use. 
There is also a command staff asset which may be used to per-
form Staff Functions (8.3).
●Reusable Special Actions represent your personal com-
mand influence and may affect unit(s) of any 
friendly Higher Echelon(s). They are represented 
in the game as wood blocks that have a Special 
Action label affixed. They are moved to the Used 
Box after use, and automatically returned to the Available 
Box during the Reinforcement Phase, bypassing the selec-
tion cup process. 
●Single-use Special Actions represent the command influ-
ence of your Higher Echelon commanders and 
may only affect units of the matching Higher 
Echelon. They are represented in the game as 
events, which are placed in the Eliminated Box 
after use. Either type may be used to perform any one func-
tion described in rules section 8.2. A single-use Special 
Action does not count against the one event allowed per 
battle.
●The Command Staff Asset represents your HQ staff work-
ing in the background in an ongoing effort to 
uncover additional resources for you and when 
available it may be used for any Staff Function 
listed in section 8.3. 
8.2 SPECIAL ACTION USES (see also 14.61)
8.21 Conduct Breakthrough Movement (Breakthrough Phase)
Each Special Action spent allows one supplied armor-class unit 
in good order that has not yet moved this phase to move in the 
Breakthrough Movement Phase, moving as an exploitation-
marked unit (one area only—see 7.31). 
8.22 Conduct Breakthrough Combat (Breakthrough Phase)
Each Special Action spent allows one already contested area 
to have a round of combat fought in it during the friendly 
Breakthrough Combat Phase. This area may not have already 
fought a round of combat during this same Breakthrough 
Combat Phase.
8.23 Reinforce a Battle (Combat or Breakthrough Phase)
Each Special Action spent allows one unit in good order from 
an adjacent uncontested area to reinforce a declared combat 
(Defender only). This reinforcing unit may not violate stacking, 
may not reinforce a battle involving only assets (4.35), and may 
not be designated as the point unit unless the original point 
unit is eliminated (6.25).
8.24 Retreat before Combat (Combat or Breakthrough Phase)
Each Special Action spent allows the Defender (only) in a de-
clared combat to retreat all units as per rule 6.6, except that 
the retreating units do not become disordered. The Attacker 
should await the Defender’s decision before assigning assets. 
The Attacker is awarded an exploitation opportunity (6.8) if 
this retreat is conducted. 
8.25 Rally the troops (Admin Phase)
Each Special Action spent in an Admin Phase allows the player 
to designate any one supplied area. All friendly units marked 
as disordered or recovering within the designated area and all 
adjacent areas recover fully and have their disordered and re-
covering markers removed. 
8.26 Acquire Quality Replacements (Admin Phase)
Each Special Action spent in an Admin Phase allows the own-
ing player to select a supplied reduced unit (either unit class) 
to receive one step of replacements, even if the replacement 
step is elite.
8.27 Reroute a Reinforcing Unit (Reinforcement Phase)
Each Special Action spent in the Reinforcement Phase allows 
one reinforcing unit to be placed in any friendly-controlled or 
vacant enemy-controlled appropriate entry area (14.2) outside 
its listed entry area(s).
8.3 STAFF FUNCTIONS (see also 14.62)
The command staff asset, when in the Available Box, may be 
used to perform any one of the below Staff Functions during 
an Admin Phase, with no Higher Echelon restrictions, after 
which it is placed in the Used Box and recycled like any other 
asset.
8.31 Replacements
One step of non-elite replacements may be added to any sup-
plied infantry-class unit.
8.32 Intelligence Gathering
Choose any one enemy unit, anywhere on the map and in any 
supply status, which is then revealed to you until the end of the 
Admin Phase.
8.33 Reserves Made Available
Mark any eligible unit (14.7) with an appropriate and available 
reserve marker.

Page 11
9.0 SUPPLY PHASE
9.1 SEQUENCE
The following steps occur during this Phase, in the order listed. 
Both players are involved in each of these steps and they may 
resolve their portions simultaneously.
a)	 Verify control of areas.
b)	 Determine supply status and adjust disordered markers.
c)	 Perform morale checks for Phasing Player’s unsupplied 
units and remove appropriate markers.
9.2 VERIFY CONTROL OF AREAS
Both players check each area to verify that 
control is intuitively clear to them; other-
wise the area is marked by a control marker 
from the appropriate side (the last 
sole-occupant).
9.3 DETERMINE SUPPLY STATUS & ADJUST 
DISORDERED MARKERS
9.31 Tracing a Supply Path
Supply is checked for both players during each player’s Supply 
Phase. A unit’s or area’s supply status remains valid until the 
next Supply Phase. A supply path is traced from any given 
friendly unit or friendly-controlled area towards any valid sup-
ply source (14.9). 
a)	 The supply path is traced through friendly-controlled areas, 
and it may only trace over a blown bridge if the tracing unit/
area is adjacent to that blown bridge. 
b)	 A supply path may be traced out of enemy-controlled areas, 
but never into or through them. 
c)	 	Supply may be traced into or through contested friendly-
controlled areas.
9.32 Marking Supply Status
Units and areas that cannot trace a valid supply path are un-
supplied and have an unsupplied marker placed on 
them. Unsupplied markers are removed from units 
and areas that were previously marked as unsup-
plied that can now trace a valid supply path.
9.33 Effects on Units that are Unsupplied and/or Disordered:
a)	 Units may only move one area during a Movement Phase, 
complying with rule 5.34 when appropriate.
b)	 Units may not build field works or be placed in reserve.
c)	 Units have a –1 Success Number modifier when firing and 
when making a morale check. These modifiers are cumula-
tive when a unit is both unsupplied and disordered.
d)	 Disordered units (only) may not attack, nor may they enter 
an area containing enemy units/assets (they may remain in 
such an area if already there). They may defend with the 
Success Number modifier specified in (c) above.
9.34 Additional Unsupplied Effects
a)	 Units may not have any assets assigned.
b)	 Units must make a morale check at the end of the friendly 
Supply Phase, with failure causing a unit to either become 
disordered, lose one step, or surrender (9.4).
c)	 Disordered markers may not be favorably adjusted (9.35).
d)	 Areas and units may not be affected by friendly events, 
Special Actions, Staff Functions, or engineering functions.
9.35 Adjusting Disordered Markers
For all their disordered and recovering units that are able to 
trace a supply path (9.31), both players remove all recovering 
markers and then flip 
disordered 
markers 
over to the ‘recovering’ 
side.
9.4 MORALE CHECKS FOR UNSUPPLIED UNITS
The Phasing Player (only) performs a morale check (with –1 
unsupplied Success Number modifier) for his units that are 
unsupplied. Units that fail this check either in good order or 
recovering become disordered. Units that fail this check that 
are already disordered suffer a step-loss. Veteran disordered 
units that roll a 10 or green disordered units that roll an 8-10 
surrender and are eliminated regardless of remaining steps. 
Disordered units with a current troop quality of elite do not 
surrender, though they still suffer a step-loss with a failed mo-
rale check if disordered.
9.5 REMOVING APPROPRIATE MARKERS
Both players remove from the map all field works markers that 
are in contested areas, all roadblocks and all defended road-
blocks; all river assault markers and all exploitation markers, 
plus all of the Non-phasing Player’s reserve markers.

Page 12
10.0 DESIGNER’S NOTES
Wargamers need more games that are easy to get into, fun to 
play, shorter in duration, and with a good feel for the history, 
while also being challenging enough to warrant repeated play.
The above describes both my feelings as a player and the objec-
tives that I laid out for the FAB series as its designer. I aim my 
designs towards fun, effect, and proper feel, since these are the 
qualities I want when I play wargames. Much of the underly-
ing details of war have been abstracted out of FAB, but they 
were taken into account in the game’s systems to preserve the 
proper feel. Decisions on multiple levels, with consequences to 
each decision, are the things that make a game fun for me. The 
players will be faced with plenty of these decisions each turn.
My focus was to put you in the role of the field commander, 
and have you decide where to direct your main effort. You 
must prioritize and assign the precious few assets and Special 
Actions to the units and battles that you deem most crucial, 
though all your units are begging for these limited resources.
A major hurdle for this series was luck mitigation. Because of 
the low block count, combat effects had to change from the 
standard block game system of each hit scored reduces a unit. 
By allowing the attacker to abort an attack if more than one hit 
is inflicted, and allowing the defender to deflect hits through 
the loss of field works and retreating, and by allowing both 
sides the option to take hits by eliminating assigned assets, 
success was achieved in that the units more gradually disinte-
grated. It is still possible for the attacker to inflict multiple hits 
on the defender, but this is mitigated by the number of times he 
inflicts no damage at all on the defending units because they 
retreated and/or were protected by the loss of their field works 
marker.
Field works represent a higher quality of defensive works than 
the simple foxhole dug by each soldier before he slept at night. 
They represent defending troops using sandbags, barbed wire, 
mines, and the natural resources at hand to fortify a defen-
sive position, and were often rapidly constructed by combat 
engineers attached for such a purpose. These positions were 
most beneficial for the initial contact with the enemy. After the 
defensive positions were revealed they were of less value.
One decision that went against the grain of the design was hav-
ing the assets and events displayed face-up. The necessity for 
this decision was quite simply speed of play. If the assets were 
inverted, then limited intelligence would work against both 
sides, and delays in the game would occur as the owner of the 
assets and events had to reveal them to himself, trying to find 
the one he wants to play. You are welcome to play with these 
inverted, if both players agree, but do not expect the game to 
play as quickly.
I hope that you will enjoy playing this game as much as I have 
enjoyed refining its various systems. If you have an idea for 
another battle that you would like to see given the FAB treat-
ment, or if you have rules questions, please write me at:
Rick27707@aol.com
Also join us in discussions concerning the FAB series either 
on:
www.consimworld.com
or
www.boardgamegeek.com

Page 13
11.0 INTRODUCTION
On October 6, 1973, during the holiday of Yom Kippur, silence 
on the Golan Heights was disrupted by the thunder of hun-
dreds of guns and aircraft when a Syrian assault was launched. 
The operation, known as Badr, was aimed to retake the Israeli 
occupied Golan Heights, which the Syrians lost in the 1967 
Six-day war.
12.0 GAME COMPONENTS
FAB: Golan ’73 includes:
●63 wooden blocks
Syrian & Arab = green
◦◦Israeli = blue
●One sheet of die-cut labels for the blocks
●One sheet of 228 die-cut 9/16” counters
●One combined Rule Book of Series Rules and Exclusive 
Rules 
●One Play Book
●One 22” x 32” Mapsheet
●Two Player-Aid Cards
●Two Setup Cards
●Four 10-sided Dice*
* Regardless of any modifiers, a roll of 1 will always result in 
success and a roll of 10 will always result in failure. The dice 
included with each FAB game are numbered from one to ten. If 
you should find yourself using ten-sided dice that are numbered 
from zero to nine, treat each roll of zero as a ten.
13.0 DEFINITION OF STANDARD TERMS
13.1 FIRST PLAYER
For FAB: Golan ’73, the Syrian player is always the First 
Player and the Israeli player is the Second Player. 
13.2 HIGHER ECHELONS
The Higher Echelons, along with their associated unit symbol 
colors on the labels and counters, are as follows:
tan field
apply to 34 blue
blocks
Israeli Units
Northern Command
orange field
apply to 29 green 
blocks
Syrian Units
Golan Front & Reserve
Note that both Syrian and Israeli forces have a unified com-
mand structure (14.3) which means that assets and events for 
each side are not constrained by higher echelon rules.
Exclusive Rules
13.3 ASSETS & UNITS BY CLASS
Artillery Assets Include:
	
	
Rocket
	
	
Armor Assets & Units Include:
	
	
	
	
	 Armor	
Mechanized	
Armored
	
	
Infantry	
Recon
Infantry Battle Assets & Units Include:
	
	
	
	
	
	 Infantry	
Paratroop	
Special	
Engineer	
Anti-tank
	
	
	
Forces
13.4 GAME PIECE NOTATION
The following defines special notation and visuals used on 
the units, assets and events in this volume. Note that assets all 
use a unit symbol or similarly-sized depiction and that events 
all have a distinct white rectangular border. In general, units, 
markers and counters (assets and events) are visually depicted 
in the appropriate rules sections.

Page 14
14.0 GENERAL RULES
14.01 ASSAULTS
There are three forms of assaults that can arise in 
combat situations: River Assault (5.35e), Crossing 
Assault and Air Assault. If one or more of these 
assault conditions applies in a newly contested area 
(only), a River Assault marker is placed to indicate that the as-
sault penalties apply in combat. Exploitation opportunities do 
not occur for any type of assault.
Note that the River Assault penalties on the Ground Combat 
Fire Table apply to all three forms of assault, but if more than 
one type of assault occurs in an area (such as Air Assault and 
River Assault), resolve the combat as follows:
Given this combination of assaults… Resolve as…
Air Assault and any others Air Assault
Crossing Assault and River Assault
Crossing Assault
Any one type of assault That type
a)	 Crossing Assault—This occurs in a newly contested area 
where all attacking units crossed rugged, escarpment and/
or anti-tank ditch boundaries. Units aborting combat (6.41b) 
when using a Crossing Assault may not remain in place; 
they become disordered and retreat (6.6) back across the 
boundary that they moved across. Any assets remaining 
that were assigned are sent to the Used Box.
b)	 Air Assaults—The Syrian 82nd Para Battalion 
may conduct one Air Assault during the game 
according to the Air Assault procedure (15.3). 
14.02 MINEFIELDS
At the start of a scenario, the Israeli player places 
the six Minefield markers on boundaries as follows:
●First place the three that are already marked on the map.
●Then place the remaining three on any boundary desired, but 
not on AT ditch, escarpment, river, Mt. Hermon, or rugged 
boundaries.
●Only one minefield may be placed per boundary, and no area 
may have more than one mined boundary.
A Syrian unit starting its move next to a mined boundary may 
attempt to cross by paying pay one additional movement point 
and making a morale check. If the unit fails its check, it cannot 
move across any minefield this turn, but may still continue its 
move by moving into a different non-mined area if sufficient 
movement points remain. If the check is successful, the unit 
moves across the mined boundary. Minefields may only be 
removed by an engineering function (14.52). If a Syrian unit 
retreats across a mined boundary, it must also make a morale 
check. If this fails, it loses one additional step beyond those 
inflicted by combat. These six minefields are the only ones that 
will ever be placed; more cannot be created during the game.
14.03 NIGHT TURN
Game turn two is a night turn, and is the only night turn in the 
game. It has the following effects:
●All Israeli units move as normal. Syrian infantry-class units 
can move one area. Syrian armor-class units can move up to 
two areas to a maximum of 4 MP’s. No unit can move across 
a boundary that would normally not be allowed, nor may 
they move to or from area 83 (Mt. Hermon).
●Morale checks for exploitation opportunities have a –2 SN 
modifier.
●The Israeli player may only have two units using strat-
move and the Syrian player may only have one unit using 
strat-move.
●The Syrian 82nd Para Battalion may not conduct an Air As-
sault on this turn.
●All units and assets (including artillery) of both sides have 
a –1 SN modifier to any and all fire rolls. Exception: Syrian 
armor units (not assets) are exempt from this SN modifier.
●Air support assets may not be used on either side.
14.1 BOUNDARY & CONNECTION TYPES
14.11 Escarpment Boundary
The escarpment boundary is an additional 
boundary type in this game with the fol-
lowing effects:
●No unit may cross an escarpment boundary, unless there is a 
road connecting the two areas.
●Units must pay one additional MP to cross an escarpment 
boundary by road.
●Only one unit may cross an escarpment boundary each 
Movement Phase. 

Page 15
14.12 Anti-Tank (AT) Ditch Boundary
The Purple Line that runs across the map separates the 
Israel-occupied Golan Heights from Syria. Its path runs 
along the ceasefire line established in 1967. Along its entire 
length, the Israelis dug an anti-tank ditch as a defensive 
barrier from a Syrian attack. Extensive minefields were 
also emplaced along this line by the Israelis.
The anti-tank (AT) ditch boundary is an 
additional boundary type in this game 
with the following effects:
●It costs a unit its entire movement allowance to cross an un-
bridged AT ditch boundary.
●Only one unit may cross each AT ditch boundary (whether it 
is bridged or not) into an enemy-occupied area each Move-
ment Phase.
●In combat where all units crossed the AT ditch boundary 
into newly-contested areas, an assault marker is placed in 
those areas.
●Bridges may be constructed across AT ditch boundaries (see 
14.51).
●The connection across a bridged AT ditch boundary becomes 
either a road or a field connection, as shown on the map, if a 
bridged marker is placed on the boundary.
See 14.43, 15.2 and 15.4 for additional effects.
14.13 Wadi Boundary
The wadi boundary is an additional 
boundary type in this game. Only one 
unit may cross a wadi boundary each 
Movement Phase into an enemy-occupied area. It costs a unit 
3 MP to cross a wadi boundary via field connection (cost of 2 
MP plus 1 MP additional), otherwise it costs the normal 1 MP 
if there is a road connection across the boundary.
14.14 Rugged Boundary 
The rugged boundary is an additional 
boundary type in this game. Only one 
unit may cross a rugged boundary each 
Movement Phase. The connection crossing these boundaries 
is also restricted. The movement cost is all MP, but armor-
class units may not cross rugged boundaries in either direction. 
Exception: The connection between areas 18 (Mevo Hama) 
and 19 (Givat Yoav), allows armor units to cross since it has a 
road connection, but only one unit may cross each Movement 
Phase in either direction and the movement cost is 1 MP as per 
a standard road connection.
14.15 Syrian SAM Barrier 
The Syrian SAM Barrier is a continuous 
line of marked boundaries, east of which, 
the Syrian player may challenge an Israeli 
air mission in an area by the use of a SAM air defense asset 
(16.12). There is no effect on movement.
14.16 Mount Hermon
Area 83 (Mt. Hermon) is a special area in this game. It is only 
adjacent to one area: area 59 (Majdal Shams). An infantry-class 
unit may enter Mt. Hermon by starting the Movement Phase in 
area 59 and then expending its entire movement allowance. To 
exit Mt. Hermon into area 59, that unit must also expend its 
entire movement allowance. Note: Only infantry-class battle 
assets and air support assets may be assigned in combat in this 
area. The Syrian 82nd Para Battalion may elect to conduct an 
air assault into Mt. Hermon, if it has not yet used its one al-
lowable air assault (15.3). In addition, units of both sides are 
always in supply in Mt. Hermon (14.94).
14.17 The Jordan River 
The Jordan River runs from north to south 
along the west side of the map area. Any 
unit that occupies area 6 (Gadot), area 7 
(Kfar Hanasi) or area 8 (Almagor) is said to be “west of the 
Jordan River”. A supplied Syrian unit west of the Jordan River 
triggers an automatic Syrian victory at the conclusion of any 
Game Turn (19.5).
14.18 The Purple Line
See 14.12, 14.43, 15.2, and 15.4 for effects.
14.19 The Sea of Galilee
The Sea of Galilee cannot be operated in by any unit or any 
means. The Assembly areas (14.22) and the interconnection 
between them provide a way to represent movement off map 
for Israeli units.
14.2 APPROPRIATE ENTRY AREAS
These are areas that units may arrive in when they arrive as 
reinforcements, when released by an event, or when a Special 
Action is used to reroute a reinforcing unit. Entry areas are 
shown in the upper left corner of the blocks with their listed 
turn of entry.
14.21 Syrian Entry Areas
The Syrian entry areas are labeled V, W, X, Y and Z. 
Units of the 1st Tank Division use entry areas in the 
range V-W, while units of the 3rd Tank Division 
(starting in the Operational Reserve Holding Box) use entry 
areas in the range X-Z. Units of the Strategic Reserve (starting 
in the Strategic Reserve Holding Box) may use entry areas V-Z.
14.22 Israeli Assembly Areas
All Israeli units enter play via the two Assembly areas 
(Northern and Southern) labeled A and B. Place units 
arriving in one of these boxes and move as dictated on 
the map. Specifically (i) units in the Northern Assembly area 
(A) may directly enter area 6 (Gadot) or area 8 (Almagor) and 
(ii) units in the Southern Assembly area (B) may directly enter 
area 17 (Ma’agan), in these cases at a movement cost of 1 MP. 
Each Assembly area may hold any number of units at any time. 
Units in an Assembly area may be marked with a reserve mark-
er to make them eligible for strat-moves (14.72). Units cannot 
enter an Assembly area once they are on the map. Units may 
move (transfer) between either Assembly area at the movement 
cost of all MP. Units that begin in one Assembly area may 
strat-move into or through the other Assembly area.

Page 16
14.3 OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES & SECTORS 
The operational boundaries on the map indicate the areas that 
the Syrian divisions operated in. The areas within these bound-
aries are collectively called a sector. Syrian units are affected 
by the operational boundaries for the first four turns. Israeli 
units are not affected in any way by operational boundaries.
14.31 Syrian Operational Boundaries 
The Syrians have a single unified com-
mand, but their units (only) are affected by 
boundaries on the map, whereas Syrian 
assets are not affected by those boundaries. Syrian operational 
boundaries are shown in dark gray. The two boundaries di-
vide the map into three distinct sectors, Northern, Central and 
Southern. These boundaries start on the eastern map edge and 
proceed westward across the Purple Line. These impose move-
ment restrictions for the first four turns (14.42).
14.32 Israeli Operational Boundaries
The Israelis have a single unified command and neither their 
units nor their assets are affected by operational boundaries 
on the map.
14.4 MOVEMENT RESTRICTIONS
14.41 Movement Restrictions To Both Sides
Bridges only exist and can only be constructed on a river 
boundary if there is a road crossing the boundary. A river 
boundary with a field connection costs a unit its entire move-
ment allowance.
14.42 Syrian Movement Restrictions
Syrian units may not voluntarily move or retreat across the 
operational boundaries, on either side of the Purple Line, on 
Game Turns 1 through 4. The operational boundaries have no 
effect beginning with the Syrian Operational Movement Phase 
of Game Turn 5. Note that boundaries do not extend further 
west than the areas marked on the map, so Syrian units that 
move west of the boundaries may move in any direction. 
Prior to the Syrian Operational Movement Phase of Game Turn 
5, a Syrian unit cannot retreat across an operational bound-
ary unless it is the only path of retreat available per 6.6. If a 
valid retreat path exists in the unit’s current sector, it must be 
used before any retreat path crossing an operational boundary 
can be used. The unit must leave the prohibited sector at the 
first opportunity and it may not enter an enemy-occupied or 
enemy-controlled area as it attempts to do so. This requirement 
to leave is lifted beginning with Game Turn 5.
14.43 Israeli Movement Restrictions
Israeli units may only cross the Purple Line into Syria if the 
area entered is undefended. See 15.2 and 15.4a for the impact 
of such a move.
14.5 ENGINEERING FUNCTIONS 
Note: Blown bridge markers may only be placed if 
there is a road connection across a river boundary.
14.51 Bridging the AT Ditch
This may be done in two different ways, both of which require 
the engineer asset to then be placed in the Used Box:
a)	
Admin Phase—During the Admin Phase each 
engineering asset may be used to construct a 
bridge over any AT ditch boundary. To bridge 
an AT ditch boundary, the engineering player 
must either control both areas adjoining the AT ditch or 
control one area and contest the enemy-controlled one. 
Each engineer asset may bridge one AT ditch boundary in 
an Admin Phase. The friendly-controlled area that the engi-
neering bridge is originating from must be both supplied 
and uncontested. Place an AT Ditch Bridged marker on the 
boundary to show successful placement. The Syrian player 
may construct up to eight AT ditch bridges, limited by the 
counter mix. 
b)	 Combat Phase (Syrian Only)—Each engineering asset as-
signed in combat in an area on the Israeli side of the Purple 
Line may bridge one adjoining AT ditch boundary in its 
area instead of firing. To do this, the engineering asset must 
have survived both artillery and defensive ground fire and 
the Syrian player must not have aborted the attack. Place an 
AT Ditch Bridged marker on the boundary to show success-
ful placement.
14.52 Admin Phase - Removing Minefields (Syrian only)
A minefield marker may be removed where the engineering 
player has a supplied, friendly-controlled, and uncontested 
area adjacent to the mined boundary. Remove the minefield 
marker and place the engineer asset in the Used Box.
14.6 ADDITIONAL SPECIAL ACTION USES & STAFF 
FUNCTIONS
14.61 Additional Special Action Uses
a)	 Merging Units (Israeli Only)—In the Admin Phase of a 
turn, a special action may be used to eliminate one unit 
and transfer its remaining steps to another unit with an 
identical unit symbol (armor to armor, mech to mech, etc.). 
The two units must be in the same or adjacent, uncontested, 
friendly-controlled area(s) and in good order. Remove the 
merged unit to the Eliminated Box (no VP for the Syrians) 
and increase the receiving unit by the same number of steps 
(Both units must be revealed as the procedure is followed 
and the resulting troop quality may be elite regardless of 
the troop quality of the removed unit).
b)	 Operational Reserve Released (Syrian Only)—Starting 
Game Turn 3 and going forward, each special action spent 
in the Admin Phase allows the player to release one 3rd 
Tank Division unit (15.4a) from the Operational Reserve 
Holding Box. The units must be released in the following 
order: 15th Mechanized, 81st Tank and 65th Tank brigades. 
Place the released unit in its designated Entry area(s), which 
must be friendly-controlled for the release to occur.
c)	 SAM Asset Replaced (Syrian Only)—In the Admin Phase 
of a turn, a special action may be used to move one SAM 
asset from the Eliminated Box and place it in the Selection 
Cup.
d)	 Air Asset Replaced (Israeli Only)—In the Admin Phase of 
a turn, a special action may be used to move one air support 
asset from the Eliminated Box and place it in the Selection 
Cup.

Page 17
14.62 Additional Command Staff Functions
None for this game.
14.7 RESERVE MARKER ELIGIBILITY
For all players, units are only eligible to receive a reserve 
marker if they are supplied, in good order, and in an uncon-
tested area.
14.71 Syrian Reserve Marker Eligibility
A Syrian reserve marker may be placed on any eli-
gible Syrian unit in any sector.
14.72 Israeli Reserve Marker Eligibility
An Israeli reserve marker may be placed on any eli-
gible Israeli unit, including a unit in an Assembly 
area.
14.8 STRATEGIC MOVEMENT LIMITS
14.81 Strat-move Limits To Both Sides
●Strat-move may only be made along road connections.
●A unit using Strat-move may not cross an unbridged AT 
ditch boundary or a blown bridge elsewhere.
●Strat-moves are not otherwise limited, except by the quan-
tity of reserve markers available to each side, and during the 
night turn (14.03).
14.9 SUPPLY SOURCES & SPECIAL RULES
14.91 Syrian Supply Sources
Syrian-controlled areas and Syrian units trace supply to any 
friendly-controlled Entry area (V-Z) – there are five such areas.
14.92 Israeli Supply Sources
Israeli-controlled areas and Israeli units and assets trace 
supply to any friendly-controlled Israeli areas containing 
a Supply symbol – there are three such areas.
14.93 Tracing a Supply Path
In addition to the standard requirements (9.31), a supply path 
may:
●only trace across an unbridged AT ditch boundary if the 
tracing unit/area is adjacent to that boundary.
●only be traced across escarpment boundaries if a road exists.
●not be traced across a mined boundary (affects Syrian units 
only).
14.94 Special Supply Source – Mount Hermon
Units of either side in area 83 (Mt. Hermon) are always con-
sidered in supply.
14.95 Special Supply Source – Israeli Assembly Areas
Israeli units in the two Israeli Assembly areas are always con-
sidered in supply.
15.0 UNIT RULES SPECIFIC TO THIS 
GAME
15.1 SYRIAN DIVISIONS
15.11 Unit Representation
Syrian units are brigade size, except for the four Recon units 
and the 82nd Para unit, which are battalion size. The Syrian 
Golan Front is made up of multi-unit divisions and indepen-
dent units. There are five multi-unit divisions. Units of the 
same division are denoted by using the same divisional color 
stripe. The divisions incorporate three to six units, each one 
representing a brigade or a battalion. Units without a divisional 
stripe are independent.
15.12 Penalty for Mixing Formations
The restrictions on assigning assets to units of different Higher 
Echelons (6.22 & 6.23) also apply to Syrian units of different 
divisions (having a different color stripe) in the same area: 
in combat (i) only one artillery asset can be assigned, (ii) no 
battle assets can be assigned but (iii) other assets defined for 
this game (16.1 & 16.3) can be assigned for a non-battle asset 
capability. Independent units (15.11) may be mixed with divi-
sional or other independent units without penalty. 
15.2 SYRIAN STRATEGIC RESERVE
Historically, the Assad Guard was the only unit to be 
committed during the assault on Golan. The other two units 
are “what ifs” and saw action later in the war.
Each of the three Syrian reserve units (units with a 
yellow unit type marked as SR, starting in the 
Strategic Reserve Holding Box) arrives under the 
following conditions:
●When a Strategic Reserve Released event is played (17.11).
●When an Israeli unit crosses the Purple Line into Syria 
for the first time, two strategic reserve units of the Syrian 
player’s choice are immediately released.
When released, these unit(s) are placed in any friendly-con-
trolled Entry area.
15.3 SYRIAN PARATROOPS
The Syrian 82nd Para Battalion may conduct an 
Air Assault (14.01b) once during the game. The unit 
is placed in the Air Assault Holding Box at the start 
of the game.
Conduct the Air Assault with the Syrian 82nd Para Battalion 
as follows:
●Place the unit in any area east of the SAM Barrier, as the 
first action of a Combat Phase, before any other combats are 
resolved. 
●If that area is now contested, the Syrian player must imme-
diately resolve combat in that area.
●If the assaulting unit can trace a valid supply line at the 
moment of combat, assets may be assigned as normal. Oth-
erwise only a single air support asset may be assigned.

Page 18
Strongpoints may not retreat, but they are evacuated if a 
regular unit either (a) leaves a contested area occupied by a 
Strongpoint during the Movement Phase or (b) retreats from 
the same area during the Combat Phase.
◦◦Evacuation: The Israeli player has eight conditional Task 
Force assets (marked with a C as their turn of arrival). 
Immediately after a regular unit leaves or retreats from 
a contested area occupied by a Strongpoint, remove the 
Strongpoint from the map and place it in the Evacuated 
Strongpoints Holding Box. Take one Task Force asset 
of the matching type (armor or infantry supported) and 
place the asset in the Selection Cup. These assets later 
function as battle assets. 
Otherwise Strongpoints are treated as other units except below:
●They act as a field works in terms of modifying the attacker’s 
SN.
●A field works marker may not be placed in an area currently 
containing a Strongpoint.
●Strongpoints are always in supply, but a Strongpoint does 
not provide supply for another unit in its area.
15.7 ISRAELI GHOST UNITS
Ghost units represent uncertain Syrian intelligence 
regarding actual Israeli positions.
Ghost units are placed during scenario deployment 
into areas that are adjacent to the Purple Line at the 
same time that the strongpoint units are placed, 
such that each area next to the Purple Line will 
have one Ghost unit or one strongpoint unit within. A Ghost 
unit cannot move, neither can it attack or defend. During com-
bat resolution, when units of both sides are revealed (6.24), 
reveal and then remove a Ghost unit and place it in the 
Eliminated Box.
16.0 ASSET RULES SPECIFIC TO THIS 
GAME
16.1 SYRIAN ASSET GENERAL RULES
Syrian assets may be played in any area or sector and support 
all deployed units on the map.
16.11 Commando Assets
These troops were airlifted by helicopters to raid behind 
Israeli lines.
The Syrian player may use a Commando asset in 
one of the following two ways:
a)	 Commando Raid—During an Admin Phase (4.2b), place 
it in a vacant and Israeli-controlled area adjacent to a 
friendly-occupied area. The Israelis may not strat-move or 
retreat into the area currently occupied by the asset and the 
first Israeli unit to move into the space must pay one extra 
movement point (+1 MP), causing the Syrian player to roll 
a die and resolve the raid as follows:
●The 82nd Para Battalion is always considered in supply 
(except for asset allocation) and so need never make morale 
checks for being unsupplied.
15.4 SYRIAN TANK DIVISIONS
Two Syrian tank divisions of the Golan Front enter the game as 
reinforcements as outlined below. 
a)	 3rd Tank Division—All units of this formation 
(the 81st Tank, 65th Tank and 15th Mechanized 
Brigades, all marked with a beige color stripe) 
start the game in the Operational Reserve Hold-
ing Box. They must be released in order to be committed to 
battle (14.61b). Alternatively, when an Israeli unit crosses 
the Purple Line into Syria for the first time, all units of the 
3rd Tank Division are immediately released from the Op-
erational Reserve Holding Box (if not already released).
b)	 1st Tank Division—All units of this formation 
(the 91st Tank, 76th Tank and 58th Mechanized 
Brigades as well as the 1st Recon Battalion, all 
marked with a green color stripe) enter the game 
as reinforcements on Game Turns 3 and 4.
15.5 ISRAELI BRIGADES
Although not larger than their Syrian counterparts, Israeli 
brigades proved to be superior on the battlefield and much 
more flexible in combat.
15.51 Unit Representation
Israeli units are single or multi-unit brigades or are indepen-
dent battalions and companies. Eight Israeli brigades (the 205th 
Armored, 179th Armored, 679th Armored, 4th Mechanized, 
9th Mechanized, 670th Mechanized, 317th Para and Golani 
Infantry) are represented by two units each, having the same 
color stripe. Both units of a brigade are identically marked.
Brigade Integrity—If two units of the same brigade, denoted 
by the color strip on the unit, are both actively participating in 
the same combat, they receive an extra die in combat (whether 
attacking or defending). This extra die is given the least effec-
tive SN between the units at the time the dice are rolled.
15.52 Reduced Units
The 4th Mechanized, 179th Armored and 679th Armored 
Brigades arrive at reduced strength, indicated by a yellow ar-
row mark pointing to the initial starting strength. These units 
have corresponding events that signify the arrival of the miss-
ing battalions (17.21).
15.6 ISRAELI STRONGPOINTS
Strongpoints are special units that cannot move. 
They may only defend (they may not attack). 
Strongpoints are one-step units with the stars 
around the symbol showing their ability to sustain 
damage in combat. Thus, they always fire with one die, regard-
less of defensive strength. When firing, Strongpoints depicted 
with a rifle symbol have a –1 SN modifier; those depicted with 
a tank symbol have a +1 SN modifier.

Page 19
1-2 = Raid successful: The Israelis must engage the asset as if 
it were a defended roadblock (4.35) in the ensuing Combat 
Phase with the exception that it may be placed regardless 
of the TDN value. If the asset is not eliminated by the Sup-
ply Phase, it remains in the area instead of being placed 
in the Used Box. The asset may not be removed until it is 
eliminated or relieved.
◦◦The asset never needs to trace supply, it is always consid-
ered in supply.
◦◦If the asset is still in its target area when a Syrian unit 
enters that area, the commando asset is relieved and is 
sent to the Used Box.
◦◦If the area was contested when the Syrian unit enters, the 
relieving Syrian unit is revealed upon entry.
3-5 = Raid partly successful: Treat this result in all ways as 
a successful raid above, with the exception that the asset 
does not fire back when attacked (it only interferes with 
movement and retreat until eliminated or relieved).
6-10 = Raid failure: The helicopters carrying the commandos 
have been shot down. Place the asset in the Eliminated Box. 
The unit that triggered the die roll may continue moving if 
it has movement points remaining.
b)	 Battle Asset—During a Combat Phase, use the asset as a 
battle asset (losing its commando raid opportunity until the 
next time it is drawn from the Selection cup).
Commando assets may not be returned by the alternate 
event use (4.21).
16.12 SAM Air Defense Fire
Use during the Admin Phase or the Combat Phase.
●How to Use—Overruling the usual sequence 
of play, whenever an Israeli air supoort asset is 
placed in an area that is east of the Syrian SAM 
Barrier, the Syrian player may respond by play-
ing an available SAM asset in an attempt to cancel the stated 
mission, rolling a D10 (SAM Air Defense Fire) as follows:
	
1-3	
4-6	
7-9	
Effect
	
Israeli Air Asset Eliminated
	
2-7	
2-5	
2-3	
Air Asset to Used Box
	 8-10	
6-10	
4-10	
No effect
After making the roll, the SAM asset is sent to the Used Box. 
Note that if the SAM asset successfully cancels an Israeli 
air mission, the Israeli player may not replace the cancelled 
asset with another attempt.
●Reduction of Syrian SAM Barrier—This represents the ex-
haustion of Syrian stockpiles and Israeli SAM suppression 
efforts. During the Reinforcement Phase of each turn, the 
Syrian player must roll one die for each SAM asset in the 
Used Box. If one or more of these rolls results is a 6 or higher, 
one (only) SAM asset is sent immediately to the Eliminated 
Box at the time step 4.1b of the Reinforcement Phase is per-
formed, before actually moving the assets from the Used 
Box to the Selection Cup.
SAM assets may not be returned by the alternate event use 
(4.21).
16.2 ISRAELI ASSET GENERAL RULES
Israeli assets may be played in any area or sector and support 
all deployed units on the map.
16.21 Initial Artillery Advantage
While area 83 (Mt. Hermon) is in Israeli control 
and occupied by an Israeli garrison and/or unit(s), 
the Israeli player may use one artillery asset above 
the normal limit (i.e., three when attacking and two 
when defending). If the Syrian player takes control of Mt. 
Hermon, the Israeli player loses this benefit for the rest of the 
game.
16.22 Air-to-Ground Advantage
The Israeli player may use two air support assets to 
support a battle instead of the usual one, but if the 
intended use is east of the SAM Defense Barrier, 
they may only do so if there are currently no SAM 
assets in the Syrian Available Box. When using two, one must 
be used as artillery while the other provides support to one 
involved Israeli unit.
16.23 Increasing Air Support – Conditional Assets
The Israeli player has three conditional air support 
assets (marked with a C as their turn of arrival). 
These are placed, one each, in the three holding 
boxes of the Air Support Assets Holding Box. For 
the first three times (only), when one Syrian SAM asset is 
placed in the Eliminated Box, one Israeli conditional air sup-
port asset is moved immediately from the Air Support Assets 
Holding Box to the Selection Cup.
16.24 Garrisons
The five Israeli garrison assets start a scenario 
placed in the area indicated on the counter: Ramat 
Magshimim (22), Tel Faris (30), Nafakh (42), Tel 
Abu Nida (46), and Mt Hermon (83).
Garrisons do not move from their area of placement until elim-
inated. If fought alone, they act as a defended roadblock (4.35) 
except that they are never sent to the Used Box. If friendly 
unit(s) are present, the garrison asset acts as a battle asset for 
the unit(s). Garrison assets cannot retreat from combat; units 
in the area with the garrison can absorb a hit by retreating, 
though this will destroy the garrison (this only makes sense 
to avoid encirclement when only one hit is scored against the 
Defender). Garrisons are eliminated by taking a hit, by re-
maining behind during a retreat from combat, or by failing an 
unsupplied morale check. Garrison Assets may not be returned 
by the alternate event use (4.21).

Page 20
16.3 AIR SUPPORT ASSETS (BOTH SIDES)
The Israeli high command committed aircraft against the 
Syrian ground forces, even though the enemy had defacto 
defensive air superiority over his own lines by virtue of 
his surface-to-air missile systems. As desperate as the 
ground situation was, the Israelis quickly realized that they 
could not continue to use their air force against the Syrian 
tanks in the absence of air superiority. Consequently, they 
made the missile fields the primary target, won back air 
superiority, and then brought the full brunt of their air 
force against all elements of the Syrian offensive.
The Yom Kippur War, pp. 161-204.
Air support assets are flexible and can be used in 
the following ways regardless of the supply status 
of the area to which they are committed. Unlike 
FAB: Sicily, there are no dogfighting missions in 
FAB: Golan ’73. Syrian air forces had no desire to engage with 
the Israelis. They had SAM’s for that job, and the Israelis could 
not be distracted from the primary targets.
16.31 Air Missions
Air support assets may be placed on areas (but not Assembly 
areas) that are either supplied or unsupplied (as an exception 
to rule 9.34d). Each available air support asset may be used to 
perform one of the following three missions, and is then placed 
in the Used Box:
a)	 Close Air Support Missions—During a Combat Round, 
one air support asset per side may be commited to each 
battle as a Close Air Support mission. It may be played 
even if mixed Syrian Divisions are present. The Syrian 
player may use SAM Air Defense Fire if allowed (16.12). 
The air support asset is used in one of the following two 
ways, and afterwards is placed in the Used Box (even if the 
attacker chose to abort the attack):
◦◦As an artillery asset, it fires when friendly artillery fire 
is resolved, and it does not count against the limit of us-
able artillery assets for the combat. The choice to use 
the air support asset as an artillery asset must be made 
before friendly artillery fire is rolled.
◦◦As a battle asset, it gives direct support to one unit pres-
ent, player’s choice, providing a modifier of +2 (Israelis) 
or +1 (Syrians) to that unit’s SN. A step-loss may not be 
assigned to the air support asset.
b)	 Interdiction Mission—Place the air support asset in an area 
during the Admin Phase. The Syrian player may use SAM 
Air Defense Fire if allowed (16.12). The enemy player must 
pay one additional movement point (+1 MP) to enter and 
to leave the affected area. The enemy player may not strat-
move into or out of the interdicted area. The air support 
asset remains in the affected area until the Supply Phase 
of the Second Player Turn, when it is removed to the Used 
Box.
c)	 Aerial Reconnaissance Mission—Place the air support 
asset in an enemy-occupied area during the Admin Phase. 
The Syrian player may use SAM Air Defense Fire if al-
lowed (16.12). If the mission is not cancelled, reveal all 
enemy units in that area. At the end of the phase, place the 
air support asset in the Used Box.
Air support assets may not be returned by the alternate 
event use (4.21).
16.4 ROCKET ARTILLERY ASSETS (BOTH SIDES)
Each rocket artillery asset allocated to a combat 
and resolved during artillery fire receives a +1 SN 
modifier. 
17.0 EVENT DESCRIPTIONS
17.1 SYRIAN EVENTS
Syrian events may be played in any sector in support of any 
Syrian units regardless of division.
17.11 Strategic Reserve Units Released
There is one event each for the Assad Guard Armored Brigade, 
the 141st Tank Brigade and the 90th Mech Brigade. Playing 
each of these events in the Admin Phase immediately allows 
the indicated unit to enter the game from the Stategic Reserve 
Holding Box and be placed in any friendly-controlled Entry 
area.
17.12 Syrian SSM Attack
This event represent the FROG-7 Surface-to-Surface 
Missiles (SSM) fired by the Syrians at Ramat David airfield. 
The attack failed and struck nearby civilian settlements.
When this event is played in the Admin Phase, the Syrian 
player rolls one D10 for each Israeli air support asset currently 
in the Available Box and applies results as follows:
	1-2	 The air support asset is returned to the Selection Cup.
	3-10	 The air support asset is unaffected.
17.2 ISRAELI EVENTS
Israeli events may be played in any sector in support of any 
Israeli units regardless of division.
17.21 Arriving Battalions
These events represent reinforcing battalions be-
longing to those brigades that arrived later in the 
battle. When one of these events is played in the 
Admin Phase two steps of replacements must go to 
the supplied Brigade specified. For the 4th Mech, 179th 
Armored and 679th Armored Brigades, three options are avail-
able to the Israeli player: (i) add two steps to one of the two 
units that represent the brigade (if available); (ii) add one step 
to both of the two units that represent the brigade (if available); 
alternatively (iii) if any of the specified brigade units has been 
eliminated (meaning one or both units removed), the event 
may bring one unit of the brigade (one block only) back into 
play, placing it in an appropriate Assembly area (14.22) with a 
strength of two steps.

Page 21
17.22 Operation Dugman 5
This operation by the IAF was targeted to destroy Syrian 
SAM batteries on the Golan front. Historically, the operation 
was a failure and the Israelis lost several aircraft.
This event must be played in the Admin Phase 
when drawn. The Israeli player rolls a D10 for each 
Syrian SAM asset in the Available Box and applies 
results as follows:
Great success: move the SAM asset to the 
Eliminated Box
	2-3	
Limited success: move the SAM asset to the 
Selection Cup
	4-9	
Failure: no effect
Really Bad Idea: Move an Israeli air support 
asset from the Available Box to the Eliminated 
Box. Remove from the Selection Cup if none are 
currently available.
17.23 Lt. Zvicka Greengold
This event is played in the Admin Phase in an unoc-
cupied friendly-controlled area and acts as a 
defended roadblock (4.35) with these exceptions: (i) 
it may be placed regardless of the TDN value and 
(ii) the player may use a Special Action to reinforce before 
combat into the area, and (iii) if the event is not eliminated by 
the Supply Phase, it remains in the area instead of being placed 
in the Used Box. It may not be removed until it is eliminated.
17.24 King Hassan’s Troublemakers
Place the event marker on the Moroccan unit in the 
Admin Phase. It may only fire in defense and may 
not move into an enemy-controlled area, whether 
contested or not. The event remains in effect for the 
rest of the game.
17.3 EVENTS AVAILABLE TO BOTH SIDES
17.31 Armor Replacement (for Armor Class)
This event may be used in the Admin Phase to in-
crease the current strength of any supplied, reduced 
armor-class unit (which includes armor, mech and 
recon units), even in a contested area, by one step. 
Eliminated units may not be returned from the Eliminated Box 
by use of a replacement event. Units may receive elite replace-
ments by use of this event.
17.32 Mechanized Replacement (for Mech Units & Infantry 
Class)
This event may be used in the Admin Phase to in-
crease the current strength of any supplied, reduced 
mech unit or infantry-class unit, even in a con-
tested area, by one step. Eliminated units may not 
be returned from the Eliminated Box by use of a replacement 
event. Units may receive elite replacements by use of this event.
17.33 Electronic Warfare (EW)
This event has one of the two following uses (EW 
player’s choice). The two uses (Command 
Disruption and Countermeasures) are played as the 
one allowable event per player in combat.
●Command Disruption (Jamming)—Only the Attacker may 
play this event as part of the one allowable event in 6.22. 
Then, prior to the Defender assigning any assets (6.23), each 
defending unit rolls a die and if the result is 5 or less that 
unit is immediately disordered. If all the defending units are 
disordered, no artillery, air support, SAM or battle assets 
may be assigned by the defending player.
●Countermeasures (Protection)—The event is played by the 
Defender as an immediate reaction to the attacker’s play of 
Command Disruption above. This modifies each command 
disruption roll by +2. 
17.34 Counterbattery Strike
This event may be used as the one allowable event 
in a combat. If used, the player rolls a single die 
after his opponent fires his artillery (including the 
application of any hits from the fire). On a result of 
1-5, place the artillery asset on the Turn Track that many turns 
ahead as the result of the die. The asset arrives as a reinforce-
ment during that turn, not counting the total asset/event draw 
for the affected player. This event may be played out of se-
quence by the attacker in response to the defender commiting 
artillery.
17.35 Special Action
These events are single-use Special Actions (8.1) 
which may be used for any purpose outlined in the 
Special Action rules (8.2).
17.4 EXCEPTIONS TO ALTERNATE EVENT USE
The following assets may not be returned to play by the alter-
nate event use (4.21):
●Syrian Commando assets (16.11).
●Syrian SAM Air Defense Fire assets (16.12).
●Air Support assets (16.3) for either side.
18.0 OPTIONAL RULES
18.1 MAINTAINING FIELD WORKS
Instead of removing field works from a contested area automat-
ically during the Supply Phase, the controlling player makes a 
morale check for one unit of his choice within the area during 
friendly Supply Phases (only). The field works marker is only 
removed by failure of this morale check (or otherwise by nor-
mally absorbing a hit during combat).
18.2 WITHDRAWAL
If a unit exits a contested area during the Movement Phase and 
no friendly unit remains in the contested area, make a morale 
check. If the exiting unit fails the check, place a disordered 
marker on the unit, and it immediately ends its movement.

Page 22
18.3 ADVANCED ARTILLERY USE
18.31 Artillery Interdiction
Once per Admin Phase, each player may place one 
artillery asset from the Available Box into an area 
that is adjacent to an area already containing one or 
more friendly units or a Strongpoint. The enemy 
player must spend one additional MP to enter and to leave the 
area. The enemy player may not strat-move into or out of the 
interdicted area. The asset remains in the affected area until 
the Supply Phase of the second Player Turn, when it is removed 
to the Used Box.
18.32 Direct Combat Support (Israeli only)
This optional rule reflects the Israeli use of self-propelled 
guns.
Artillery assets may be used in a combat support 
role instead of normal firing (in effect, it acts like a 
battle asset). In the Combat Phase, each artillery 
asset designated for combat support gives direct 
support to the point unit, providing a +1 modifier to that unit’s 
SN. If used in this manner, a step-loss may be assigned to the 
artillery asset.
18.4 SYRIAN AIR SUPPORT USE
Syrian air support assets may only conduct close air 
support missions if the Syrian player is the Attacker 
(doctrinal restriction).
18.5 ISRAELI DIVISIONAL ORGANIZATION
Israeli units did not have the same degree of divisional 
segregation as the Syrians, but if needed to balance play for 
an inexperienced Syrian player, the following rule may be 
used.
The restrictions on assigning assets to units of different Higher 
Echelons (6.22 & 6.23) now apply to Israeli units of different 
divisions (having a different unit color symbol) being in the 
same area: in combat (i) only one artillery asset can be as-
signed; (ii) no battle assets can be assigned; (iii) other assets 
defined for this game (16.2 & 16.3) can be assigned for a non-
battle asset capability. When using rule 14.61a, merging units 
must have the same color symbol.
For reference:
●36th Armored Division (green)
●240th Armored Division (beige)
●146th Armored Division* (blue)
*This division was also the Israeli Strategic Reserve.
19.0 DETERMINING VICTORY
19.1 OBJECTIVE AREAS VICTORY POINTS
An Objective Area must be both friendly-controlled and be 
able to trace a valid supply path (9.31 & 14.93) for a player 
to be awarded its VP value during the Victory Check Phase. 
Objective Area symbols show who is awarded VPs for control 
of them as follows:
●Syrian Objective Areas—These areas have Israeli blue stars 
marking them. Only the Syrian player is awarded VPs for 
control of these areas and only if currently occupied by at 
least one Syrian unit.
●Areas in Syria—The Israeli player is awarded one VP for 
each area he controls east of the Purple Line (14.43).
●Areas of Battlefield Importance—These areas have yel-
low stars marking them. Both players are awarded VPs for 
control of these areas. The Syrians are only awarded VPs 
for these areas if they are currently occupied by at least one 
Syrian unit.
19.2 ELIMINATED UNITS
Each eliminated unit with three or more steps on the unit la-
bel is worth one VP to the opposing player. Such units should 
be placed on the Eliminated Large Units Track as they are 
eliminated. Smaller units and assets do not have a VP value. 
Note that the Israeli 4th Mech Brigade and units of the 179th 
Armored and 679th Armored Brigades might later be removed 
from this track by the Israeli player by using a Reinforcing 
event specific to those brigades/units (17.21). If the Israeli play-
er uses the special action Merging Units (14.61a), no VPs are 
awarded to the Syrian player for units removed by this process.
19.3 CALCULATING VICTORY POINTS
During the Victory Check Phase of each turn, both players 
sum the VPs they are awarded for Objective Areas they con-
trol per 19.1 above, then add the number of eliminated enemy 
large units, and then compare these totals. The difference be-
tween those totals is the current VP advantage, with the player 
having the higher total being the advantaged player. Use the 
VP marker provided, which has a Syrian side and an Israeli 
side, placing it on the General Information Track to reflect the 
advantaged player and the current VP advantage.
19.4 SUDDEN DEATH VICTORY
Beginning with Turn 4, the Turn Record Chart shows what is 
needed in terms of net Victory Points (yours minus theirs) to 
end the game in a Sudden Death Victory during the Victory 
Check Phase. If neither player has achieved the net Victory 
Points needed to end the game, play proceeds to the next Game 
Turn.
19.5 SYRIAN AUTOMATIC VICTORY
Regardless of the current VP Count, the Syrian player wins 
an automatic and decisive victory if he has at least one Syrian 
unit that can trace a valid supply line from the west side of the 
Jordan River at the end of any Israeli player turn.

Page 23
Abort Attack: 6.41b
Admin Phase
Definition: 3.21; Phase Procedure: 4.2
Alternate Event Use
Definition: 4.21; Exceptions: 16.11; 16.12; 
16.31; 17.4
Areas
Definition: 2.4; Exiting: 5.34; Newly Con-
tested, Combat required: 6.1, 7.32; Point 
Unit Designation: 6.24; Verify Control: 9.2; 
Mount Hermon: 14.16, 14.94; Sea of Galilee: 
14.19; see Entry Areas
Area Boundaries: see Boundaries
Armor Class
Definition: 2.3; Movement Allowance: 5.22; 
Exploitation: 6.8; Units by Class: 13.3
Firing: 6.25, 6.26; Artillery Assets use: 6.31; 
Hit Priority, Disorder Option: 6.42b; Night: 
14.03; Rocket: 16.4; Opt – Advanced Use: 
18.3
Artillery Assets: 6.31; see Assets
Assaults
River Assaults: 5.35e; Assaults – Resolu-
tion: 14.01; Crossing Assault: 14.01a; Air 
Assault: 14.01b, 15.3
Assets
Definition: 2.2; in Reinforcement Phase: 
4.1b, 4.1d; in Admin Phase: 4.2; Assigned 
in Combat: 6.22, 6.23; after Combat: 6.29; 
uses in Combat: 6.3 
Assets—Exclusive Rules
Night: 14.03; Syrian Commando: 16.11; 
Syrian SAM Air Defense Fire: 16.12; Israeli 
Initial Artillery Advantage: 16.21; Israeli 
Air-to-Ground Advantage: 16.22; Israeli 
Increasing Air Support: 16.23; Israeli Gar-
risons: 16.24; Air Support: 16.3; Rocket 
Artillery: 16.4
Battle Assets: 6.32; see Assets
Boundaries
Open & River: 5.31; Minefields: 14.02; 
Escarpment: 14.11; Anti-Tank Ditch: 14.12; 
Wadi: 14.13; Rugged: 14.14; Syrian SAM 
Barrier: 14.15; Jordan River: 14.17; Purple 
Line: 14.18; see Connections; see Opera-
tional Boundaries
Breakthrough Phases 
see Movement; see Combat
Bridges
Blow Up: 4.31; Repair: 4.32; Defended 
Roadblock: 4.35; Movement Costs: 5.31, 5.32; 
Movement Restrictions: 5.35c, 5.35d; Newly 
Contested Areas: 7.32; Construction Restric-
tion: 14.41; see Boundaries; see Connections
Combat
Definition: 3.24; General Rules: 6.1; Combat 
Round: 6.2; Defender’s Special Action: 6.21; 
Assets Assigned: 6.22, 6.23; Point Units: 
6.24; Artillery Fire: 6.25, 6.26; Ground Fire: 
6.27, 6.28; End of Round: 6.29; Night: 14.03; 
Ghost Units revealed in step 6.24: 15.7; see 
Hit Distribution and Priorities
Combat—Breakthrough
Definition: 3.27; Mandatory: 7.41; Optional: 
7.42; via Special Action: 8.22; Night: 14.03
Conditional Assets & Units:15.6, 16.23; 
see Assets – Exclusive Rules; see Strong-
points
Connections
Road & Field: 5.31; see Boundaries
Control
Definition of Control: 2.4; see Areas
Defended Roadblock: see Engineer Assets
Disordered
Definition: 2.3; cannot Attack: 6.2; Disorder 
Options: 6.42b, 6.42c; Combat Results: 6.5; 
Retreats: 6.6; Effects: 9.33
Disordered—Recovery
Disorder Option: 6.42b; Recovery: 6.5; 
Rally: 8.25; Adjusting Markers: 9.35
Engineer Assets
Admin Phase: 4.2; Roadblocks: 4.34, 4.35; 
in Combat: 6.33; AT Ditch Bridging: 14.51; 
Removing Minefields: 14.52; Areas and 
Sectors, use in: 16.1, 16.2; see Assets
Entry Areas
Definition: 14.2; Reinforcements, Blocked 
Entry: 4.1c; Reroute Reinforcement: 8.27; 
Syrian Entry Areas: 14.21; Israeli Assembly 
Areas: 14.22, 14.95; see Areas
Events
Definition: 2.2; Admin Phase: 4.2; Alternate 
Use: 4.21; Single-Use: 4.22; Exclusive Event 
Rules: 17.0
Events—Israeli
Arriving Battalions: 17.21; Operation Dug-
man 5: 17.22; Lt. Zvicka Greengold: 17.23; 
King Hassan’s Troublemakers: 17.24
Events—Syrian
Strategic Reserve Units Released: 17.11; 
Syrian SSM Attack: 17.12 
Events—Both
Armor Replacement: 17.31; Mechanized 
Replacement: 17.32; Electronic Warfare: 
17.33; Counterbattery Strike: 17.34; Special 
Action: 17.35 
Exploitation
Definition: 6.8; Due to Retreat: 6.21; Due to 
Elimination: 6.25, 6.42d; Eligibility: 7.1; see 
Breakthrough Phases
Field Works
by Engineer: 4.33; by Unit: 5.23; in Hit 
Priority: 6.42a; by Reserve: 7.2; in Break-
through: 7.31; Opt – Maintenance: 18.1
First Player: 2.1, 3.2, 13.1
Formations & Organization
Syrian Penalty for Mixing Formations: 
15.12; Israeli Brigade Integrity: 15.51; Opt 
– Israeli Divisional Organization: 18.5; see 
Game Components
List of Components: 12.0; Higher Echelons: 
13.2; Assets & Units by Class: 13.3; Game 
Piece Notation: 13.4
Ghost Units
Definition: 15.7; see Combat
Good Order
Definition: 2.3; see Disordered
Higher Echelons
Definition: 2.3; Asset Restrictions: 6.22, 
6.23; Israeli, Syrian: 13.2; see Zones
Hit Distribution and Priorities
General: 6.4; Priorities vs Attacker: 6.41; 
Priorities vs Defender: 6.42; Step-Loss Al-
location: 6.43; see Combat
Infantry Class
Definition: 2.3; Movement Allowance: 5.22; 
Units by Class: 13.3
Large Units
Eliminated Adjustment: 19.2; see Units
Markers
Definition: 2.2; for Control: 9.2; for Supply 
Status: 9.32; for Disorder: 6.5, 9.35; end-of-
turn Removal: 9.5
Minefields
Definition: 14.02; see Morale Checks
Morale Checks
Definition: 2.3; General Procedure: 6.7; 
Armor Class, Exploitation: 6.8; Unsup-
plied Units: 9.4; Mined Boundary Crossing: 
14.02; Night Exploitation: 14.03; Garrison 
Out of Supply: 16.24; Opt – Field Works 
Maintenance: 18.1; Opt – Withdrawal: 18.2 
Movement
Allowances: 5.22; Minimum Move: 5.33; 
Costs: 5.31, 5.32, 14.42, 14.43
Movement—Breakthrough
Definition: 3.26; Exploitation: 6.8; Break-
through Rules: 7.3; Restrictions: 7.31; in 
Newly Contested Areas: 7.32; Night: 14.03
Movement—Operational
Definition: 3.22; Movement Options: 5.2; 
Movement Rules: 5.3; Syrian Movement 
Restrictions: 14.42; Israeli Movement Re-
strictions: 14.43
Movement—Reaction
Definition: 3.25; Reaction Phase: 7.2
Index

Page 24
Movement—Strategic
Definition: 3.23; Strat-Move: 5.4; Limits: 
14.8
Night
Definition: 14.03; see Morale Checks; See 
Movement; See Combat
Operational Boundaries
Definition: 14.3; Unified Commands (no 
asset or event restrictions): 14.31, 14.32; 
Movement Restrictions: 14.4; see Sectors
Optional Rules: 18.0
Maintaining Field Works: 18.1; Withdrawal: 
18.2; Advanced Artillery Use: 18.3; Syrian 
Air Support Use: 18.4; Israeli Divisional 
Organization: 18.5 
Out of Supply: see Unsupplied Effects
Point Unit
Definition: 2.3; in Combat: 6.24; Mandatory 
Step Loss: 6.41a; Step Loss Allocation: 6.43
Reaction Phase: see Movement—Reac-
tion
Recovery: see Disordered—Recovery
Reinforce Battle: 8.23
Reinforcement Phase: 3.1, 4.1
Reinforcements
Units, in Entry Areas: 4.1c; Events & Assets, 
in Selection Cup: 4.1d; Reroute Unit: 8.27; 
See Entry Areas
Replacements
Quality, via Special Action: 8.26; Non-Elite, 
via Staff Function: 8.31; see Events – Both
Reserve Markers
Eligibility: 14.7
Reserve Units
Definition: 2.3; Placing into: 5.21; Break-
through: 7.1; Reaction, Defender: 7.2; via 
Staff Function: 8.33; Unit Arrival: 14.2; 
Eligibility: 14.7; see Reserve Markers; see 
Retreats
Stacking: 5.1; Hit Priority, Retreat Option: 
6.42c; Procedure in Combat: 6.6; via Special 
Action: 8.24
River Assaults: 5.35e; see Assaults; see 
Bridges
Roadblock
Construction, via Engineer: 4.34; Unit 
Stops upon Entry: 5.35b
Scenarios: 22.0
Second Player: 3.3, 13.1
Sectors
Northern, Central and Southern: 14.31; see 
Operational Boundaries
Selection Cup
Definition: 2.1; place into: 4.1b, 4.1d; draw 
from: 4.2a
Special Actions
Definition: 2.2; Defender Decision: 6.21; 
Breakthrough Activation: 7.1; Optional 
Combat: 7.42; Standard Uses: 8.1, 8.2
Special Actions—Reusable: 4.1a, 8.1
Special Actions—Single-Use: 8.1, 17.35
Special Actions—Standard Uses
Breakthrough Movement & Combat: 8.21, 
8.22; Reinforce Battle: 8.23; Retreat before 
Combat: 8.24; Rally the Troops: 8.25; Qual-
ity Replacements: 8.26; Reroute Reinforce-
ment: 8.27
Special Actions—Additional Uses
Merging Israeli Units: 14.61a; Syrian Op-
erational Reserve Released: 14.61b; Syrian 
SAM Asset Replaced: 14.61c; Israeli Air 
Asset Replaced: 14.61d 
Stacking Limits: 5.1
Staff Functions
in Admin Phase: 4.2; General: 8.1; Replace-
ments: 8.31; Intelligence Gathering: 8.32; 
Reserves Made Available: 8.33
Staff Functions—Exclusive Rules
No Additional Functions: 14.62 
Status Boxes & Tracks
Definition: 2.1 and map sheet; Available 
Box: 4.1, 4.2, 6.22, 6.23; Eliminated Box: 
4.22, 6.4; Used Box: 4.1, 6.29; Syrian Stra-
tegic Reserve Holding Box: 15.2; Syrian Air 
Assault Holding Box: 15.3; Syrian Opera-
tional Reserve Holding Box: 15.4; Israeli 
Air Support Assets Holding Box: 16.23
Steps/Step Losses
Definition: 2.3; Point Unit: 6.24; Step Loss 
Allocation: 6.43; due to Retreats: 6.6
Stongpoints
Definition, Symbols and Modifiers: 15.6; 
Evacuation Procedure: 15.6; Task Force 
creation: 15.6
Success Number (SN): 2.1
Sudden Death Victory: 19.4
Supply Path
Assigning Assets, Required: 6.22, 6.23; Dis-
order & Recovery: 6.5; Tracing: 9.31, 14.93
Supply Phase
Definition: 3.28; Procedures: 9.0
Supply Sources
Tracing to: 9.31; Definition of: 14.91, 14.92; 
Boundary Restrictions – tracing across: 
14.93; Mount Hermon: 14.94; Israeli Assem-
bly Areas: 14.95
Task Force: see Strongpoints
Terrain & TDN
Definition & Terrain Difficulty Number 
(TDN): 2.4, Map Legend, Combat Tables; 
see Boundaries
Troop Quality (TQ)
Definition: 2.3; in Combat, per Point Unit: 
6.24; Battle Assets, do not effect: 6.32; 
Morale Checks: 6.7
Definition: 2.2; Status: 2.3; Units by 
Class: 13.3; Syrian Divisions: 15.1; Syrian 
Strategic Reserve: 15.2; Syrian Paratroops: 
15.3; Syrian Tank Divisions (Operational 
Reserve): 15.4; Israeli Brigades: 15.5; Israeli 
Strongpoints: 15.6; Israeli Ghost Units: 15.7; 
see Formations & Organization
Unsupplied Effects
Unsupplied & Disordered: 9.33; Additional 
Effects: 9.34; Morale Check: 9.4
Victory Check Phase
Definition: 3.4; Procedures: 19.0
Victory Points & Objective Areas
Objective VP: 19.1; Eliminated Large Unit 
VP: 19.2; Calculating VP: 19.3
GMT Games, LLC ▪ P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 ▪ www.GMTGames.com