FABULANTICA
TI
TIC
FABULANTIC
B
N
C
FAB
FAB
FABULA
BULA
BULA
B
ANTI
ANT
ANTI
A
A

• 1 game board
• 5 figures
• 12 inhabitants with base
• 12 towers
• 1 “magic carpet” tile
• 54 travel cards
• 24 task cards
Missing
friend
Inhabitant in
need of help
Structure of the task cards:
• 1 game board
Components
Marco Teubner
Hi!
My name is Marco Teubner. I am a cultural scientist and for over 
15 years I have been a professional game designer. I live with my 
wife and our three children in Upper Bavaria. Most of the games I 
design are for children. In games we can live out fantasies, try things 
out and learn while at the same time having fun and enjoyment. 
“Fabulantica” is one of my favourite games ever. It enables you to 
embark on adventures with likable heroes and heroines from the 
world of fairy tales. Let’s go to Fabulantica, let’s get playing!
Have fun, Marco Teubner

“Hocus-pocus, toe of mouse, rush me over to the witch’s house!” cries Amir the 
apprentice sorcerer. A blue thunderbolt lightens up the sky and a loud “Kaboom!” is 
heard. Amir rubs his eyes in surprise.
He is not, as he expected, in the witch’s house – instead, he finds himself in front of the old mill. It looks like 
something has gone seriously wrong with his spell! It is not only the apprentice sorcerer who finds himself 
in a totally different place – the rest of the inhabitants of Fabulantica have also been dispersed throughout 
the whole of the land thanks to this spell. Confused as to what has just happened, the inhabitants take 
cover in the towers where they wait for help, since nobody knows where the others have got to. Can you 
help them?
Story

Game setup
Place the game board in the middle of the table where it is easily accessible for all players.
Choose a figure each, and place them on the castle in the middle of the game board. 
If you are fewer than five players, take the rest of the figures out of the game.
Also place the magic carpet on the castle.
Put the 12 inhabitants on their bases, put them on the game board and then cover each inhabitant 
with 1 tower.
Carefully shuffle the towers and push each tower on 1 yellow field on the various locations. No more 
than 1 tower is allowed to stand on each location at a time. The castle in the middle and 5 further 
locations stay uncovered. Now none of you should know where which inhabitant is hiding!
Shuffle all task cards and place them face-down as a pile next to the game board. Then turn over 3 task 
cards, placing them face-up next to the pile. These 3 cards form the common display. Make sure that 
3 different inhabitants in need of help (the inhabitants on the bottom left-hand edge of the card) are 
always included in the common display. In the case of a duplicate, simply place 1 of the two cards at the 
bottom of the pile and turn over 1 new task card.
common display
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

The objective of the game is to find the dispersed inhabitants of 
Fabulantica. You are awarded 1 gold coin for each fulfilled search task.
The first player to own 3 gold coins is the winner!
7.
Then shuffle all travel cards well. Each player is now dealt 5 travel cards. Any player that has problems 
holding cards can place them face-up in front of them. The rest of the travel cards now form the draw 
pile. Place them next to the game board.
The 3 inhabitants in need of help 
in the common display are waiting 
for you. Hurry up – there is no time 
to be lost! The game is played in a 
clockwise direction. The youngest 
player amongst you starts.
When it is your turn, perform the following actions in the specified sequence:
1. Travel to a different location
Use your travel cards for this. You have to discard 1 appropriate travel card for each path section. You may 
travel on several path sections during your turn as long as you can discard 1 appropriate travel card for 
each section.
Place the used cards on a discard pile next to the game board and move your figure to the location at the 
end of your path.
For the green 
forest, you need 
a horse.
For the grey 
mountains, you 
need a donkey.
For the yellow 
desert, you 
need a camel.
For the blue 
waterways, you 
need a ship.
How to play

If you don’t have any appropriate card or you don’t want to travel, then simply stay where you are. In 
this case, you don’t perform the second action and instead go straight to the third action “Picking up new 
travel cards”.
2. Which inhabitant is hiding beneath the tower?
If, at the end of your turn, your figure ends up in a location with a tower, you are allowed to see which 
inhabitant is hiding beneath it. If you don‘t want to have a look, since you already know which inhabitant 
is hiding beneath it, then simply leave the tower as it is. If you decide to look, then make sure that the 
inhabitant you uncover is easily visible for all players.
Is there 1 of the 3 inhabitants in need of help from the common display underneath the tower?
If so, then take the appropriate task card from the common display and 
place it face-up in front of you. Important: you can look for a maximum 
of 2 missing friends at the same time, i.e. you may have no more than 
2 task cards face-up in front of you. Your 2 task cards may not feature 
the same inhabitants in need of help.
Take a look at the task card. The inhabitant in need of help is relieved 
that you have found him, and immediately informs you who has been 
missing since the spell went wrong. It is now your task to find the 
missing friend illustrated in the speech bubble (located on the upper, 
right-hand side of the card).
Then move the tower you have just uncovered – including 
its inhabitant – to any other free location of your choice. 
Then reveal a new task card to the common display so that it 
contains 3 face-up task cards. Make sure that there are always 
3 different inhabitants in need of help.
The magic carpet offers a further opportunity for getting from place 
to place. If you are at or arrive at the current location of the magic 
carpet and you are holding a travel card with a magic carpet, you 
may discard it and travel to any place you like on the game board. 
Place your figure on the magic carpet tile and “fly” to any location 
you like. The magic carpet now stays on the new location and waits 
for its next trip.

Game end
Is there one of the missing friend featured in your tasks underneath the tower?
Congratulations! You have successfully completed your 
task. You receive 1 gold coin as a reward. To receive your 
gold coin, turn over the completed task card so that you 
can see the gold coin and leave it face-up in front of you 
until the game is over.
The inhabitant that has been hiding in the tower now takes 
flight and changes location. Move the tower you have just 
uncovered – including its inhabitant – to any other free 
location of your choice.
Is there no inhabitant in need of help or missing friend underneath the tower?
If so, then simply put the tower back on the inhabitant, hiding them once again. The inhabitant and the 
tower stay at this location and aren’t moved.
Tip: if an inhabitant is standing on a location or is moved to a new location, think up a short story about the 
location and the inhabitant! This will make it much easier to find the inhabitant next time round. (Example: 
the tower with the knight is moved to the cave. Story: the knight courageously enters the gloomy cave!) 
You will find it even more fun if you put your heads together and think up the stories together.
3. Picking up new travel cards
At the end of your turn, pick up 2 new travel cards or swop 2 of your travel cards for new ones.
However, you are not allowed to have more than 10 travel cards at any one time. Then it is the next 
player’s turn.
The game ends as soon as one of you 
has 3 gold coins in front of them.
This player is the winner.

6+ Even Mom and Dad Can Have Fun with This
4+ Rules Can Be Fun
3+ Games for the Little Ones
5+ I Can Play This on My Own
3+
4+
6+
„For every age the right game!“ - that is our motto!
Our joyful games are available in the four colors: green, blue, yellow and red. Each color refers to a specific 
age of your child. This is an overview of our color coding: 
5+
Game design: Marco Teubner • Illustration: Anne Pätzke • Engl. Translation: dualis
Übersetzungen • Realization & Design: Mühlenkind Kreativagentur • Pegasus Spiele, Am 
Straßbach 3, 61169 Friedberg, Germany, under license of SAVAS TAKAS IR KO, UAB (Logis).
© 2019 by Pegasus Spiele GmbH. All Rights reserved.
Reprinting and publishing of game rules, game components, or illustrations without the license 
holder‘s prior permission is prohibited.
G
f
th