1-6 Players
30 Min
Ages 14+
Factory 
Funner
1.	 Each player takes a factory board, 3 
white output reservoirs and a supply 
reservoir of each of the four colors. 
Use side A of the factory board for 
a fair game. Use side B to make it 
more difficult for some players. 
(Difficulty rating: All As are equal, 
then B1, B2, etc with B6 being the 
most difficult.)
2.	Place each player’s score marker on 
the ‘$10’ space of the money track.
3.	Place the connector pipes, black 
reservoirs, clear chips, and First and 
Last Tokens into a supply accessible 
to all players.
4.	Randomly give each player 8 
machine tiles face down. No one 
should look at them. Return the 
remaining machines to the box.
Objective
Over the course of 8 rounds, you’ll grab machines (in real time!) to add to your 
factory. Try to build your factory as efficiently as possible. Each machine provides 
some revenue and if you’re able to chain machines together, you’ll earn even more!
Components
 Player Components:
•	 6 Double-sided Factory Boards
•	 6 Score Markers
•	 24 Supply Reservoirs 
(6 each in yellow, pink, green, and blue)
•	 18 Output Reservoirs
Shared Components:
1 Money Track
9 Black Output Reservoirs
36 Clear Chips
1 First Token
1 Last Token
154 Connectors
48 Machine Tiles
L
Setup

Machine Tiles
Each machine tile shows which of the four 
colors (pink, yellow, green, or blue) of product 
it needs as input(s), and which color it produces 
as output(s). The number of dots shows how 
much of each input the tile requires (a), and the 
numeral shows how much output it produces (b).
A black output (c) means that the machine 
produces an end product. No machines accept 
black as an input.
The number in the middle of the tile shows 
how much revenue (d) the tile gives you when 
placed in your factory.
Round Breakdown
Each round consists of three phases: 
Selection Phase: Choose at most one 
machine tile to add to your factory. 
Connection Phase: Place that tile on to 
your factory board. 
Bookkeeping Phase: Calculate your 
revenue and expenses.
1.
2.
3.
Note: If your input or output shows multiple colors (e), 
players are free to choose which color it is, and may 
change it later.
a
The “D-6 Quantizer“ has 2 inputs (Pink 
and Yellow) and 1 Green output. 
The “Cwalichecker” has 
3 inputs: Blue, Green and 
Yellow and 1 Black output.
b
c
e
d
1. Selection Phase
When everyone is ready, one player counts down 
“3… 2… 1.... Flip!” When they yell “Flip!” everyone 
flips over one of their machine tiles to the table so 
all players can see and reach it.
Each player may now claim a machine. The first 
player to touch a machine claims it. There are no 
take backs or whoopsies. You touch it, you own it.
You are not required to claim a machine. If you 
claim a machine and do not place it in your factory, 
you will suffer a $2 penalty. If you take the last 
machine, you may choose not to place it without 
paying the $2 penalty. So feel free to pick it up 
and try.
If you are the first player to claim a machine, also 
take the First Token. If you take the last machine, 
also claim the Last Token. Do not use the First/Last 
Tokens on the first round. In a two player game, 
only use the Last Token.
If more than one machine remains unclaimed, then 
shuffle these remaining machines and give one to 
each remaining player. None of these players take 
the First/Last Token, and they are not subject to 
the $2 penalty if they choose not to place it.
2. Connection Phase
Players all simultaneously place their newly 
claimed machine onto their factory board. You 
must connect all of the machines inputs and 
outputs to either another appropriate machine 
or a reservoir. If you did not claim a machine, 
you do not do anything this phase. 
In general, when placing machines and 
connectors, if it makes logical sense, it is legal. 
If it seems like wishful thinking, it probably is. 
Detailed placement rules on next page.
3. Bookkeeping Phase
Now adjust your position on the money track 
based on how much you spent and earned 
in the Connection Phase. If you placed a new 
machine in your factory, gain the revenue shown 
on its tile. Then, lose $1 for each additional 
component you placed in the previous phase.
If you claimed a machine and did not build it, 
lose $2. If you have the First Token, lose $1. If 
you have the Last Token and built your machine, 
earn $1.

Input product can also come from the output of another 
machine. The total output number must be ≥ the total input 
number. You may combine outputs from multiple machines 
and/or split outputs into multiple machines as long as total 
output number ≥ total input number. You cannot merge 
machine output with reservoir output. 
When supplying a machine in this way, 
place a clear chip over the input dots. 
Remove the clear chip if later the machine 
is supplied by a reservoir instead. Each dot 
covered with a clear chip is worth $3 at the 
end of the game.
Connectors can cross each other, 
but they cannot begin or end at the 
same hex edge. Each hex edge is 
only used once. You may not build 
pipes over machines or reservoirs. 
Machines and reservoirs can only 
be built in empty spaces.
You cannot connect a 
machine’s output to its own 
input, no matter how complex 
the path. No perpetual 
motion machines!
Output must be collected in an 
output reservoir or supplied 
to another machine. You can’t 
have any dead end pipe. All 
reservoirs must connect to 
something.
Each player is limited to 3 white 
reservoirs. Each reservoir may 
collect a single color. Black 
reservoirs are unlimited. They 
may only collect black.
Input product can come from an 
input reservoir. Each player has 
one of each color. Input reservoirs 
have an infinite supply and can 
supply unlimited machines.
Connectors and reservoirs 
placed in previous turns may be 
removed at no cost. Machines 
placed in previous turns cannot 
be removed or moved in any way.
Colors must match and can’t be 
mixed.
Core Placement Rules
•	It is free to place machines in your factory. Every other 
piece costs $1 to place.
•	 To move, rotate, or upgrade a piece, remove it for free, then 
pay to place a new piece.
•	Place clear chips over the input dots when a machines gets 
its input from another machine.
•	 Pipes may cross each other, but cannot share a hex edge.
•	 You may never move a machine placed in a previous turn.

Example: 
In the first round’s 
selection phase you grabbed 
the “Umeaker” machine. You place it 
onto your factory as above, adding a Green 
and a Blue reservoir, as well as two output reservoirs.
During the bookkeeping phase, you earn $7 from the 
machine, but pay $5 for the 4 reservoirs and 1 connector 
you added, for a net gain of $2. You move your marker on 
the money track from $10 to $12.
In the second round, 
you are the first player 
to grab a tile, and you chose 
the “Ectotrapper” machine. You also 
take the First Token. In order to supply this 
machine with the Pink and Yellow product, you take 
4 connectors from the supply. You also need to return 
two output reservoirs to your supply and place one 
output reservoir, ending up with the layout above.
You gain $7 from the “Ectotrapper”, and pay $4 for the 
connectors, $1 to place the reservoir, and $1 for the First 
Token. Removing the two output reservoirs has no cost. 
This yields a total income of $1, moving you up to $13 on 
the money track. Since you connected the outputs of one 
machine to the inputs of another, place two clear chips 
over the input dots on the “Ectotrapper”. Each chip earns 
$3 x the number of dots it covers at the end of the game.
Game End
The game ends after 8 rounds are complete. 
At this point, gain $3 for each dot covered by a 
clear chip in your factory. Whoever has the most 
money wins!
Solo Mode
Randomly take 8 machines to make a face 
down deck. Each turn draw and attempt to 
place the top machine from the deck. There is 
no penalty for choosing not to place a machine. 
Score as normal.
Play your first game with board A. If you score 
$50 or more, move to the next more difficult 
board. If you score $45 or less move to the next 
easier board (or stay on board A). Try to make it 
through all 6 boards.
No Speed Required 
Variant
No one takes any machines at the start of the 
game, instead shuffle all the machines into a 
facedown deck. Set 3 of these face up in the 
middle of the table. 
Choose a starting player, that player chooses 
one of the face up machines and then places it 
in their factory following the normal placement 
rules. You may not touch the machines before 
making your decision. Draw a new machine 
from the deck to replace the one that was 
taken. Play continues to the left until all players 
have had eight turns.
There is no penalty for taking a machine that 
you cannot place. To speed up the game, the 
next player can start their turn as soon as a 
machine has been selected instead of waiting 
for the previous player to finish their placement. 
If the deck is empty, shuffle the machines that 
players chose not to place to make a new deck.
Each player gets 8 turns.
Corné van Moorsel
Nigel Sussman
Anca Gavril
Michael Dunsmore, John Brieger
Filip Gavril
Sam Hillier
Design:
Illustration: 
Graphic Design: 
Development: 
3D Artist:
Rulebook Writer:
Credits: