2nd Edition
1.	 Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2.	 Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3.	 Commands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4.	 Special Abilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	11
5.	 Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	14
TA B L E O F C O N T E N T S
COIN Series, Volume VI
R U LE S O F P L AY
by Andrew Ruhnke and Volko Ruhnke
6.	 Winter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	15
7.	 Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	17
8.	 Non-Players. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	18
Setup & Scenarios. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	28
Key Terms Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	35
© 2015, 2018 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com

1.0 INTRODUCTION
Falling Sky is a board game about the latter part of the Roman 
conquest of Gaul, when numerous tribes rose in revolt. It adapts 
GMT Games’ “COIN Series” system about modern insurgencies to 
depict the political, military, and economic affairs of ancient Gaul. 
An Ariovistus expansion to Falling Sky, sold separately, adds the 
early years of the Gallic War.
In Falling Sky, one to four players each take the roles of one or more 
Factions in Gaul: the Roman Republic seeking to secure Julius Cae-
sar’s recent conquests; an anti-Roman confederation led by the Celtic 
Arverni tribe and its young king Vercingetorix; its Celtic rival, the 
generally pro-Roman Aedui confederation; and fierce Belgic tribes 
of the north led by the chieftain Ambiorix. Germanic warbands from 
across the Rhine may intervene, sometimes in cooperation with a 
Faction, sometimes alone.
Issuing commands and exploiting their Factions’ special abilities 
and various events, players build and maneuver forces to influence 
or control the tribes of Gaul, extract resources, and achieve their 
Factions’ aims. Cards regulate turn order, events, and victory checks.
The game’s most important functions are summarized on several 
aid sheets. This Second Edition rule book explains (on pages 28-34) 
how to set up the scenarios, and also lists key terms in an index near 
the end (pages 35-36). Players seeking gradual instruction should 
start with the tutorial in the Playbook.
Second Edition: This edition of Falling Sky updates five Event 
cards, marked “2nd Ed”, and the Non-player rules, section 8.
1.1 General Course of Play
In Falling Sky, cards are played from the deck one at time, with 
one card ahead revealed to all players. Each Event card shows the 
order in which the Factions become Eligible to choose either that 
Event or from a menu of actions. Executing an Event or Command 
renders that Faction Ineligible to do so on the next card. Winter 
cards mixed in trigger periodic victory checks and other activities.
1.2 Components
A complete set of Second Edition Falling Sky includes:
•	 A 17" x 22" mounted board (1.3).
•	 A deck of 77 playing cards (5.0).
•	 200 wooden Forces pieces, cylinders, and pawns (1.4, 1.8, 2.2, 
3.1.1).
•	 A sheet of markers.
•	 Five heavy-cardboard Available Forces displays (1.4.1).
•	 Four Faction player aid foldouts (3.0, 4.0, 7.0).
•	 Two Sequence of Play and Germanic Tribes sheets (2.0, 3.4, 
6.0, 6.2).
•	 One Battle Procedure (3.2.4) and Non-Player Guidelines/
Instructions foldout (8.1-8.4).
•	 Two Second Edition Non-Player flowchart foldouts (8.5-8.8).
•	 Four 6-sided dice—red, green, blue, yellow.
•	 A background playbook.
•	 This Second Edition rule book.
1.3 The Map
The game board shows a map of Gaul and environs, with several 
tracks around the edge. 
1.3.1 Regions. Borders delineate Regions of the map, with certain 
Regions grouped as Celtica, Belgica, or Germania. Each Region is 
home to one or more Tribes, some of which have Cities (1.3.3). Each 
Region includes a Control marker holding box that also shows the 
Region’s Control Value for Belgic Victory (7.2). 
NOTE: Regions go by the name of the highlighted Tribe there—
any with a City, or the upper-left Tribe if no City there—or 
“Britannia” or “Provincia”. Colors of Control Value shields 
correspond to groups of Regions. 
Victory and Senate 
Thresholds
Rhenus (river 
border)
Tribe with 
Special Stacking
Borders
Senate and Legions 
Track
Space for 
indestructible 
Cisalpina (not in 
play)
Home Region: 
This Faction 
Rallies easier here
Parts of Gaul
Fallen Legions box 
Overflow 
Holding Box
Sequence Track
Tribe with City
Control Value and 
Control marker 
box for this Region
Regions
Adjacency arrow
Tribe

Faction symbols and the word “Rally” or “Recruit” 
show Home Regions where that Faction enjoys an 
advantage for those actions (3.2.1, 3.3.1, 3.4.1).
1.3.2 Tribes. Colored circles within the Regions show named Tribes 
whose status—Subdued, Allied to a Faction, or Dispersed (1.4.2, 
4.2.3)—influences victory (7.0). NOTE: There are 30 such Tribes, 
listed alphabetically on the back of the Playbook.
1.3.3 Cities. Gray diamonds around some Tribe 
circles show that those Tribes have Cities (named 
in capital letters) that can be fortified into Cita-
dels. (1.4.2, 3.3.1)
1.3.4 Britannia. The Britannia Region is treated as adjacent to the 
three coastal Regions of Gaul across from it—as shown by white 
arrows—for all purposes except for restrictions in Marching (3.2.2, 
3.3.2, 4.1.3) or Scouting (4.2.2) across it.
1.3.5 Rhenus. Germania’s border with Gaul is a river that halts 
March (3.2.2, 3.3.2). NOTE: The Morini Region borders Germania 
across the Rhenus.
1.3.6 Overflow Box. The board features a 
holding box for the occasional case of a 
Region becoming too crowded with 
pieces. Place some or all of the pieces in 
the Overflow box and the “Overflow” 
marker into their Region.
1.4 Forces
Wooden pieces represent the Factions’ Leaders (tall cylinders, if 
any), Roman Legions (cubes), Roman Auxilia or Gallic or Germanic 
Warbands (hexagonal cylinders), Allied Tribes (also called “Allies”, 
discs), and Roman Forts and Gallic Citadels (squares and diamonds).
Types of FORCES (Pieces)
Leaders:
	
Caesar/	
Vercingetorix/	
Ambiorix/
	 Roman Successor	
Arverni Successor	
Belgic Successor
Roman Legion: 
	
Roman Auxilia: 
	
(Hidden/Revealed)
Warbands:
	
Germanic
	
(Hidden/Revealed)
Types of FORCES (Pieces, continued)
Allied Tribes (Allies):
	 Roman	
Germanic
Roman Fort: 
Gallic Citadels: 	
	
	
	
NOTE: Available Forces displays and the back of the Playbook 
show each Faction’s complete pool of wooden Forces pieces.
1.4.1 Available Forces, Placement, and Removal. Each Faction 
(1.5) has a separate Available Forces display showing an inventory 
of Forces, including spaces for its Allied Tribes and Citadels. These 
Force pools limit the number of pieces that a Faction may have in 
play. Keep a Faction’s Forces not on the map on its Available Forces 
display, within easy view of all players. Place Allies and Citadels in 
the highest-numbered empty spaces—including Ally discs in any 
empty Citadel spaces—revealing the number of them that are on the 
map, in order to help track Resource earnings (6.4) and victory (7.0). 
•	 Placement: Pieces other than Legions may only be placed from or 
replaced with those on the Available Forces displays—ignore any 
instructions to place pieces if the appropriate type is not Available 
(a piece to be replaced by a piece that is not Available is simply 
removed). 
•	 Removal: When removing pieces other than Legions from the 
map, put them on their Available Forces display. 
•	 Legions: Legions not on the map start out on the Legions track, 
on the lowest rows, up to four per row. Unless otherwise specified, 
place Legions onto the map from the Legions track (not from the 
Fallen Legions box) via Event (5.0) or the Senate Phase (6.5), 
and Legions removed from a Region into the Fallen Legions box. 
Some Events (5.0) and voluntary removal (below) instead remove 
Legions to the Legions track. Legions move from the Fallen box 
to the Legions track during the Winter (6.5.2, 6.6). 
•	 Voluntary Removal: A player Faction while executing a 
Command or Event by the Sequence of Play (2.3.4, 3.0, 5.0) 
may remove its own pieces from the map to Available, or to the 
Legions Track if a Legion (but see permanent Fort, 1.4.2; Belgic 
Enlist, 4.5.1). Also, a Faction at such time may replace any of its 
Citadels with its Allied Tribes (discs). 
PLAY NOTE: Voluntary removal allows placement into a Region 
when all Available pieces are already elsewhere on the map.
1.4.2 Stacking. Any number of Forces may occupy a Region, except:
•	 Allied Tribes may occupy only Tribe circles, one per circle.
•	 Citadels may occupy only City diamonds, one per diamond, taking 
the place of any Allied Tribe there. 
•	 Only one Roman Fort may be in each Region. 

•	 Provincia always has one Roman Fort piece in it. Set up and always 
keep one of the wooden Fort pieces in the red square space there. 
That piece cannot be removed.
•	 No Allies or Citadels may occupy a Dispersed Tribe’s circle (1.7, 
3.2.3).
•	 A few Tribe circles and Cities may hold only certain Allies or 
Citadels—the Aedui Tribe circle/Bibracte City may hold only 
an Aedui Allied Tribe/Aedui Citadel (blue); the Arverni circle/
Gergovia may hold only an Arverni Ally/Citadel (green); and the 
two Suebi circles may hold only Germanic Allies (black).
•	 Cisalpina and Aquitania are non-playable areas. They are not 
Regions and may hold no pieces (except by Event, 5.1.1).
1.4.3 Flipping. Warbands and Auxilia are either Hid-
den—symbol end down—or Revealed—symbol end 
up, affecting their abilities. Actions, Events, and the 
Spring Phase (6.6) flip them from one to the other state. All other 
pieces are always Revealed, not Hidden. Revealed Warbands can 
be marked Scouted (4.2.2); whenever they are to be flipped to Hid-
den, remove the marker instead of flipping. Always set up and place 
new Warbands and Auxilia Hidden (including if replacing a Revealed 
or Scouted piece, 4.2.2).
•	 Leader pieces symbol end up are Caesar (red, Roman), 
Vercingetorix (green, Arverni), or Ambiorix (yellow, Belgic), 
symbol down that person’s Successor. A removed Leader piece 
will return as a Successor that Winter (6.6). 
NOTE: Hidden Auxilia help Scout (4.2.2), Harass Vercingeto- 
rix’s March (3.3.2), and block enemy Ambush (4.3.3). Hidden 
Warbands can Raid (3.3.3), Harass Roman March (3.2.2) and 
Seize (3.2.3), Retreat from Roman Battle within a Region (3.2.4), 
Ambush (4.3.3), Entreat (4.3.1), Suborn (4.4.2), and Rampage 
(4.5.2).
1.5 Players & Factions
Falling Sky is playable by one to four players. Player Factions 
are the Roman Republic (red), the Arverni Confederation (green), 
the Aedui Confederation (blue), and the Belgic Tribes (“Belgae”, 
yellow-orange). The game rules—and sometimes players—guide a 
5th Faction, the Germanic Tribes (“Germans”, black). 
•	 The Arverni, Aedui, and Belgic Factions collectively are also 
called “Gallic” or “Gauls”.
PLAY NOTE: Romans and Arverni may require more intricate 
play to achieve their potential and should go to more confident 
players.
1.5.1 Spare Factions. With two or three players, the players run 
leftover Factions:
•	 With three players, one player runs Arverni and Belgae or, if 
preferred, Romans and Aedui.
•	 With two players, one player runs Arverni and Belgae, the other 
Romans and Aedui.
A player running two Factions uses the lower victory margin of the 
two (7.1-.3) and only causes play to end on a victory check (6.1) if 
both Factions are meeting their conditions. 
EXCEPTION: A player running both Arverni and Belgae in “The 
Great Revolt” scenario uses the higher of those Factions’ victory 
margins and ends play if one has met its condition (2.1).
Non-Player Option: If playing solitaire, or as an alternative to 
the above with two or three players, use the Non-player rules in 
section 8 to govern leftover Factions.
1.5.2 Negotiation. All negotiations are open. Players may make any 
mutual arrangements within the rules, binding only as follows: once 
a player agrees to something within the execution of a Command or 
Event, or Quarters Phase, that agreement holds during that action. 
A player failing to obtain agreement at the outset of an action may 
cancel the action. 
•	 A Faction may transfer Resources (1.8) to another during either’s 
execution by the Sequence of Play (2.3.4) of a Command or 
Event—a maximum of four Resources per such execution between 
two Factions run by the same player (1.5.1).
•	 Factions may transfer any Resources to any non-German Factions 
during the Quarters and Harvest Phases of the Winter Round (6.3-
6.4). 
1.6 Control
Any Faction (including Germanic) that has more Forces (pieces, 1.4) 
in a Region than all other Factions combined Controls that Region. 
If no Faction does, the Region has No Control. Control affects a 
number of Faction actions as well as Belgic victory (7.0). Place 
and adjust Control markers in a Region’s Control box at setup and 
as Commands (3.0), Special Abilities (4.0), Events (5.0), or Winter 
(6.0) alter Control. 
NOTE: Mark uncontrolled Regions with “No Control” markers, 
or by leaving the Control box empty, showing “No Control”.
1.7 Subdued and Dispersed Tribes
As the map shows, an empty Tribe 
circle (1.3.2) is Subdued: subservient 
to Rome and not at war. Roman Seize 
actions (3.2.3) can Disperse a Sub-
dued Tribe (place a marker on it), 
blocking placement of Allies there (1.4.2) and negating its value for 
Belgic Victory (1.3.1, 7.2). 
Subdued and Dispersed Tribes, along with Roman Allies, add to 
Roman victory (7.0).
1.8 Resources
At any moment, each Roman and Gallic Faction has 
between 0 and 45 Resources that they use to pay for 
Commands (3.0). Mark Resources along the 0-45 board 
edge track with a short round wooden cylinder of the 
Faction’s color (1.5). NOTE: The Germans do not track Resources.

1.9 Victory Markers
Use markers as follows to track various totals that affect Roman or 
Gallic victory (7.0).
Track Roman victory—the sum of Subdued, 
Dispersed (1.7), and Roman Allied Tribes—on the 
edge track with the red “Subdued Dispersed + 
Allies” victory marker.
Similarly track Belgic victory—the sum of Belgic 
Controlled (1.6) Tribes plus Belgic Allies and 
Citadels—on the edge track with the orange 
“Control + Allies” victory marker.
Track a part of Arverni victory—off-map Legions, 
meaning those in the Fallen Legions box, plus on 
the Legions track, plus removed by Event (1.4.1, 
5.0, 6.5)—on the edge track with the green “Off-Map 
Legions” marker. The other part of Arverni victory—
total Arverni Allied Tribes and Citadels—is shown by the highest 
uncovered number on the Arverni Available Forces display. 
Track Aedui victory on the Aedui Available Forces 
display with the “Other Most Allies” marker. Place 
the marker at the number of Allied Tribes and 
Citadels of whatever other (non-Aedui) Faction has 
the most (including Romans or Germans). 
Comparing the highest Aedui Ally number showing to the “Other” 
number indicated will show how close the Aedui are to victory.
EXAMPLE: Aedui Available Forces display showing three Aedui 
Allies and Citadels are on the map, compared to five for whatever 
other Faction has the most.
2.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
2.1 Set Up
Follow the instructions on pages 26-29 of this rule book to choose 
a scenario, assign Factions to players, prepare the deck, and set up 
markers and Forces. 
2.2 Start 
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile face up. Then reveal the next card on top 
of the draw deck. The card on the played card stack is played first; 
the card on top of the draw deck will be played next.
NOTE: All players will see one card ahead into the deck (2.3.7). 
All played cards and the number of cards in the draw deck are 
open to inspection.
RECORD STEPS: As the steps of each Event card play 
are completed, place short round Eligibility cylinders 
corresponding to the Factions involved (1.5) into ap-
propriate boxes of the Sequence of Play track. During 
Winter Rounds (6.0), place the Winter marker in the current phase’s 
box.
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, up to two Factions will execute a 
Command or the Event.
•	 Factions whose cylinder is in the “Eligible” box receive these 
options in the left-to-right order of Faction symbols shown at top 
of the card. 
•	 Factions with cylinders in the “Ineligible” box do nothing. 
2.3.1 Eligibility. Factions that did not execute a Command or 
Event on the previous card are Eligible (their cylinders will start 
the turn—that card—in the “Eligible” box per 2.3.6). Factions that 
did are Ineligible. (All Factions start the game Eligible.) See also 
Free Actions, 3.1.2.
2.3.2 Faction Order. The Eligible Faction with the leftmost symbol 
in its color (skipping any Ineligible Factions) is the 1st Eligible to 
execute a Command or Event or to Pass. The next leftmost is the 
2nd Eligible. NOTE: Ignore any gray details around the Faction 
symbols unless using Non-player rules (8.2.1). 
2.3.3 Passing. If a currently 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction opts to Pass, 
it remains Eligible for the next card and receives +1 Resource if a 
Gallic Faction or +2 Resources if Roman. The next leftmost Eligible 
Faction then replaces the Passing Faction as the new 1st or 2nd 
Eligible Faction and receives the same options to execute or Pass. If 
the last (rightmost) Eligible Faction Passes, adjust cylinders (2.3.6) 
and play the next card. NOTE: Ineligible Factions or those that do 
not become 1st or 2nd Eligible may not Pass.
2.3.4 Options for Eligible Factions. 
FIRST ELIGIBLE: If the 1st Eligible Faction does not Pass (2.3.3), 
it may execute either:
•	 A Command (3.0) in one or more Regions—with or without a 
Special Ability (4.0)—or
•	 The Event shown on the card. 
OPTIONS FOR 2ND ELIGIBLE: If the 2nd Eligible Faction does 
not Pass (2.3.3), it also may execute a Command or possibly the 
Event, but its options depend on what the 1st Eligible Faction ex-
ecuted per the above:
•	 Command Only: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed a Command, 
the 2nd Eligible Faction may execute a Limited Command (2.3.5). 

•	 Command & Special Ability: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed 
a Command with a Special Ability, the 2nd Eligible Faction may 
execute either a Limited Command or the Event.
•	 Event: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event, the 2nd 
Eligible Faction may execute a Command, with a Special Ability 
if desired. 
NOTE: The game board and Sequence of Play aid sheet also 
show these options.
2.3.5 Limited Command. A Limited Command is a player Com-
mand selecting just one Region with no Special Ability. A Limited 
Command counts as a Command. 
2.3.6 Adjust Eligibility. After the 1st and 2nd Eligible Factions 
complete all execution of Commands, Special Abilities, and Events 
(or after all Eligible Factions instead have Passed), adjust cylinders 
on the Sequence of Play track as follows:
•	 Any Faction that did not execute a Command or Event (and was 
not rendered Ineligible by an Event) to the “Eligible” box.
•	 Any Faction that executed a Command (including Limited 
Command) or Event to the “Ineligible” box (EXCEPTIONS: 
Events 5.0, free Actions, 3.1.2. 5.4). 
2.3.7 Next Card. After adjusting Eligibility, move the draw deck’s 
top card onto the played card pile face-up and reveal the draw deck’s 
next card (even if the played card is Winter, 2.4). Play the played 
card, proceeding with the appropriate sequence.
2.3.8 Frost. On the last Event card before each Winter 
card (2.4), Commands by the Sequence of Play (2.3.4, 
including Germanic Commands via Belgic Enlist, 
4.5.1) may not use March (3.2.2, 3.3.2).
NOTES: Place the “Frost” marker on the played Event card as 
a reminder. Events may still allow March (5.1.1). 
Frost does not affect the Germans Phase (6.2.2).
Sudden Frost Option: For less foreknowledge, if all players 
agree at Setup (2.1), upon the last Event card before each Winter, 
instead switch the places of the two showing cards and conduct an 
immediate Winter Round (6.0). The switched Event card will be 
the first card of the next Year (unless the game ends that Winter).
2.4 Winter Card
If playing a Winter Card, conduct a Winter Round 
(6.0), marking each phase on the Sequence of Play 
with the “Winter” marker. NOTE: Set aside Winter 
cards (or turn them sideways) to show how many have 
gone by. Each series of Event cards up to a Winter 
Round is called a “Year”.
2.4.1 Final Winter. If the last Winter card’s Victory Round (6.2) 
is completed without a victory, the game ends anyway: determine 
victory by 7.3. 
3.0 COMMANDS
3.1 Commands in General
A Faction executing a Command chooses one of the four Commands 
listed on its Faction sheet and selects one or more Regions to be 
involved. Commands usually cost Resources per Region selected; 
the executing Faction must have the Resources to pay. Select a given 
Region only once for a given Command.
The executing Faction chooses the order in which the Command’s 
Regions are selected, resolved, and paid for, and chooses own pieces 
to be affected or other Factions or pieces targeted. Some Commands 
may target only one Faction per Region, others several Factions. 
3.1.1 Pawns. Mark Regions selected for various actions such as 
Commands and Special Abilities with white and gray pawns. The 
pawns are an aid, not a limit on play.
3.1.2 Free Actions. Certain Events (5.4) grant free Commands or 
Special Abilities: they cost no Resources and, if executed by a Fac-
tion other than the one playing an Event, do not affect its Eligibility 
(2.3.6). Other requirements and procedures still apply unless modi-
fied by Event text (5.1.1).
3.2 Roman Commands
The Romans choose from Recruit, March, Seize, or 
Battle Commands.
3.2.1 Recruit. Recruiting places Auxilia and Roman Allied Tribes. 
Select any Regions that are not Devastated (4.3.2) and (to have 
effect) that have either Roman Control or a Roman Leader, Ally 
or Fort. Select just one such Region if this is a Limited Command 
(2.3.5). Pay two Resources per Region selected; if the Region is a 
part of (within) a Supply Line, instead pay 0. 
SUPPLY LINE: A Supply Line is a chain of adjacent Regions reach-
ing a border with Cisalpina (1.4.2), each Region in the chain—in-
cluding where the action is to occur—either having No Control or 
under Control (1.6) of a Faction that agrees to the Supply Line at the 
moment that the action’s Region is selected. Germans never agree 
(3.4.5). NOTE: The Ubii, Sequani, and Provincia Regions border 
Cisalpina. One of them alone under friendly or No Control would 
qualify. Supply Lines affect Roman Build (4.2.1), Aedui Trade (4.4.1), 
and Roman Quarters (6.3.3). See example below.
PROCEDURE: Romans select Regions desired for Recruit and Sup-
ply Lines. Factions declare whether or not they agree to have the 
Supply Line include Regions they Control. (The Romans may call 
off the Recruit if unhappy with any disagreement, 1.5.2.) Then, in 
each Recruit Region, Romans may do one of the following (adjusting 
Control, 1.6)— 
•	 If under Roman Control, or if Caesar is there, place one Available 
Roman Ally piece at a Subdued Tribe (not the Aedui, Arverni, or 
Suebi, 1.4.2, nor at a Dispersed Tribe, 4.2.3). 
•	 If the Region already has a Roman Leader, Allied Tribe, or Fort, 
place Available Auxilia (Hidden, 1.4.3) up to the number of Roman 
Allied Tribes plus one per Leader and Fort there. 
HOME REGION: If placing Auxilia in the Provincia Region, place 
one extra, if desired.

PLAY NOTE: The Romans can Recruit to move Auxilia or Allied 
Tribes from one Region to another, in effect, by first removing 
such pieces to Available (1.4.1), then placing them.
SUPPLY LINE EXAMPLE: Arverni Control blocks Supply in the 
Arverni Region. In the Bituriges Region, no one has Control, so 
a Supply Line would be allowed—but only if the Aedui agree. 
3.2.2 Roman March. Marching moves Roman Forces and hides 
Revealed Auxilia. Romans may not March upon Frost (2.3.8). Se-
lect any Regions as origins. Pay two Resources per origin Region, 
four if Devastated (4.3.2). Form Marching groups as desired from 
Roman pieces that begin together in an origin Region—the groups 
may include a Leader, Legions, and Auxilia but not Allied Tribes nor 
Forts. Pieces within a Region may make up multiple groups. March 
no piece more than once. If this is a Limited Command (2.3.5), select 
just one origin Region (with multiple groups, if desired). 
PROCEDURE: Origin Region by origin Region, flip all Revealed 
Auxilia to Hidden; then, as desired, move each Marching group one 
by one together into an adjacent Region and, if desired, March into 
a 2nd Region that is now adjacent to the group.
•	 Caesar and any Legions or Auxilia moving with him may March 
into a 3rd such Region.
•	 Any of a group’s pieces may drop off in a Region before the rest 
move on, or split off to move by accompanying Scout (4.2.2).
•	 Upon moving into or out of Britannia (1.3.4) or Germania 
(crossing the Rhenus, 1.3.5), and whenever entering (as opposed 
to beginning in) a Devastated Region (4.3.2), the group must stop 
for that March (even with Caesar).
MARCH EXAMPLE: The Romans select Provincia as a March 
origin. Caesar, four Legions, and three Auxilia there will March 
out as group, and another two Auxilia form a 2nd group. The 
Romans pay two Resources total for the single March origin 
Region. Caesar’s group first moves into the Aedui Region, where 
the Aedui have four Hidden Warbands. The Romans state that 
one Auxilia will drop off, and that the rest of the group will move 
on into another Region. The Aedui could cause one Loss to the 
departing Roman Forces, but decide not to do so. Caesar’s group 
moves on into the Mandubii Region, which is Devastated. Even 
though Caesar would like to continue into Belgica, he and his 
group must stop because of the Devastation. Finally, the group 
of two Auxilia enters the Arverni Region and decides to stop to 
avoid any removal by Hidden Warbands there.
BRITANNIA: If any group moves into or out of Britannia, no Special 
Ability may accompany this March Command (1.3.4, 4.1.3); if a 
Special Ability has already been added, no pieces may move into 
or out of Britannia on this March. 
HARASSMENT: If any part of a group both enters and then leaves a 
Region during a single March Command, any Factions with enough 
Hidden Warbands there may opt to inflict Losses on the moving 
pieces as those pieces depart (not on any dropped off pieces). An-
nounce and inflict Losses in the Faction Order shown on the currently 
played Event card (2.3.2), then do so with Germans (3.4.5). Any 
agreement earlier that Command not to Harass applies (1.5.2). (For 
every three Hidden Warbands that the Faction has there (rounded 
down), the Romans must either remove one departing Auxilia or—if 
any Legions or Leader remain with the group—may instead roll a 
die. If the roll is a 1, 2, or 3 (only), the Romans must remove the 
Legion or Leader.

3.2.3 Seize. Seizure extracts Resources from Subdued Tribes, and 
can disperse them to keep them in submission. Select any Regions 
that have Roman pieces. Pay no Resources. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected Region, a Region at a time—
Dispersal. If the Region has Roman Control, as 
the Romans desire, and as long as Dispersed 
markers remain available (there are fewer than 
four on the map), place a Dispersed Tribe marker 
(not yet Gathering, 6.6) onto one or more Subdued 
Tribe circles in the Region. 
•	 Rally. For each Tribe just Dispersed (receiving a Dispersed 
marker), the Arverni then the Belgae each roll a die and, on a 
1, 2, or 3, may free Rally in each Region possible (3.3.1, not in 
Devastated) adjacent to that Dispersed Tribe’s Region. 
•	 Forage. Then, only if the selected Region has no Devastated 
marker (4.3.2), add +2 Roman Resources for each Subdued or 
Roman Allied (not Dispersed) Tribe in the Region, and +6 Roman 
Resources for each Dispersed marker that was just placed per the 
above.
•	 Harassment. Lastly, each Faction with Warbands in the selected 
Region may opt to inflict Losses on Roman pieces there. Announce 
and inflict Losses in the Faction Order shown on the currently 
played Event card (2.3.2), then do so with Germans (3.4.5). For 
every three Hidden Warbands that the Faction has there, Romans 
select and remove one Auxilia or Roman Ally or—if any Legions, 
Leader, or Fort there—may instead roll a die. If the roll is a 1, 2, 
or 3 (only), the Romans must remove a Legion, Leader, or Fort. 
NOTE: This Harassment works the same as that of Marching 
Romans (3.2.2). 
NOTE: Keep unused Dispersed markers on the Roman Forces 
display. Dispersal temporarily blocks placement of Allies (1.4.2) 
and cancels the Belgic Control Value of that Tribe for Belgic 
Victory (7.2), as the “-1” on the marker reminds.
DESIGN NOTE: The free Rally represents the resentment of 
Roman brutality, the Harassment attacks on Roman foraging 
parties.
3.2.4 Roman Battle. Battle destroys enemy Forces, including Sub-
duing enemy Allied Tribes and Citadels. Select any Regions with 
both Roman and non-Roman Forces. Romans pay two Resources per 
Region, four if Devastated (4.3.2). NOTE: A Battle play aid sheet 
shows the procedure below as a flowchart.
PROCEDURE: In each of the selected Regions at a time, execute 
Battle in the following order.
•	 Step 1 Target—The Attacker selects exactly one enemy Faction 
with pieces in the Region as the Defender.
•	 Step 2 Declare Retreat—Unless the Defender is Germanic or 
has only Allied Tribes (discs) and/or Citadels, it declares whether 
or not it will Retreat after the Attack. Germans never Retreat. 
Allied Tribe and/or Citadel pieces alone may not Retreat. If the 
Retreat is to be to a Region Controlled by another Faction, the 
Defender must obtain that Faction’s agreement during this Step. 
The Germans never agree. NOTE: Agreement is binding for the 
rest of the Battle in this Region. 
•	 Step 3 Attack—Roman Forces in the Battle cause Losses to the 
Defending Faction’s Forces as specified under “LOSSES” below. 
•	 Step 4 Counterattack—If the Defender declared a Retreat, skip 
this step. If not, surviving Defending Forces cause Losses to 
Roman Attackers per below.
•	 Step 5 Reveal—If a Retreat, skip this step also. If not, flip all 
Hidden Warbands and Auxilia of both the Attacker and Defender 
in the Region that survived to Revealed.
•	 Step 6 Retreat—If the Defender did declare a Retreat, the 
Defender selects one adjacent Region (it may be across the 
adjacency arrows in and out of Britannia). The Region must be 
under Control of the Defender or of a Faction that agreed at Step 
2 above (not No Control). The Defender must either move all its 
surviving Leader and Warbands to that Region or remove them. 
EXCEPTION: The Defender may opt to have any Retreating Leader 
and/or Hidden Warbands stay put. All Allied Tribes and Citadels 
stay in the Region.
LOSSES: The Faction suffering Losses to its Forces, when an op-
tion, chooses which of its own pieces to remove and whether to roll 
a die to possibly remove a piece, or to instead automatically remove 
other pieces, as follows. 
•	 A Faction must either remove pieces or roll dice, in a sum equal 
to ½ for each enemy Warband or Auxilia, plus one per enemy 
Leader, plus one per enemy Legion in the Battle. A Defender 
taking such Losses when Caesar is Attacking must take two per 
Legion instead of just one per Legion. 
•	 The above sum is cut in half for Defenders who Retreat or started 
with a Citadel in the Region (even if removed by Besiege, 4.2.3).
•	 After determining Losses per above, round any fractions down.
•	 While a Faction has at least one Legion, Citadel, Fort, or Leader 
in the Battle, and that piece is able per the bullets below to absorb 
a Loss, the Faction may roll a die instead of removing a piece. If 
the roll is a 1, 2, or 3 (only), the Faction must remove the Legion, 
Citadel, Fort, or Leader (Legion to Fallen, 1.4.1). If the roll is a 
4, 5, or 6, the Loss is absorbed without removing any piece. Such 
a piece that survives on a roll of 4-6 may be the target of more 
rolls to absorb further Losses, until removed on 1-3. 
•	 If the Faction taking Losses is a Defender who has opted to Retreat, 
the first Losses taken must be any Allied Tribes and (via die rolls) 
any Citadel. In all other cases, any Allied Tribes, Citadel, or Fort 
may only take Losses after all other pieces of that Faction in the 
Region have already been removed. (Thus, Germans remove their 
Warbands before any of their Allied Tribes, see 3.4.5.) NOTE: The 
Roman Besiege Special Ability allows easier removal of Allies and 
Citadels (4.2.3).
•	 The Provincia Fort never absorbs Losses (1.4.2).
NOTE: In general, Leaders and Legions cause one enemy Loss 
each, Warbands and Auxilia ½ each; a Loss removes an enemy 
piece, except for certain hard targets—Leaders, Legions, Forts, 
and Citadels—which instead roll and are removed only on a 1-3.
PLAY NOTE: When taking Losses, roll no more dice at a time 
than your total Legions, Leaders, Citadels, and Forts, in case 
all rolls are 1-3. 
NOTE: No Control blocks Retreat (unlike for Supply Line, 
3.2.1)—under pressure of enemy cavalry, a retreating force needs 
cover from friendly Forces to make it to sanctuary.

NOTE: It is possible for Defenders to Retreat into a Region, then 
immediately Battle again.
BATTLE EXAMPLE: Caesar is in the Arverni Region with six 
Legions and three Auxilia facing Vercingetorix with 17 Warbands, 
Cadurci Ally, and Gergovia Citadel. Two Aedui Warbands are 
nearby. The Romans have a Limited Command and pay two 
Resources to Battle, selecting the Arverni to Defend—the Aedui 
will be unaffected. The Arverni declare that they will not Retreat. 
a) Attack—Caesar doubles Losses by Legions on the attack, for 
12; the three Auxilia cause ½ Loss each for 1½; Caesar him-
self adds one, for a total of 14½ Losses. The defending Citadel 
halves that total, rounded down to seven. The Arverni remove 
seven Warbands, leaving plenty of buffer before forcing any roll 
against Vercingetorix or the Citadel. 
b) Counterattack—The remaining 10 Warbands plus Vercingeto-
rix now cause the Romans to remove or roll a total of six pieces 
or dice, respectively. They opt first to roll three dice against 
Legions, to see how the losses go before deciding how to absorb 
the remaining three losses. The rolls are “4”, “1”, and “3”, so 
two Legions are removed. The Romans decide not to risk any 
more Legions and instead take the remaining losses by removing 
their three Auxilia.
c) Reveal—As there was no Retreat, all Hidden survivors (10 
Arverni Warbands) flip to Revealed.
3.3 Gallic Commands
The Arverni, Aedui, and Belgae 
choose from Rally, March, Raid, 
or Battle. 
3.3.1 Rally. Rally places own pieces. Pay one Resource per Region 
selected. Select any Regions that are not Devastated (4.3.2) and 
(to have effect) with that Faction’s Control, Ally, Citadel, Arverni 
Leader, or “Rally” Symbol. 
EXCEPTIONS:
•	 The Belgae outside Belgica (1.3.1) pay two Resources per Region, 
not one. 
•	 The Arverni can select a Region with Vercingetorix in it for Rally 
even if that Region is Devastated, paying two Resources.
PROCEDURE: In each selected Region, the executing Faction may 
do one of the following—
•	 If it Controls the Region (1.6), place one of its Ally pieces (not a 
Citadel) at a Subdued Tribe there (only Aedui at Aedui [Bibracte] 
and Arverni at Arverni [Gergovia], none at Suebi, 1.4.2, nor at 
Dispersed, 3.2.3). 
•	 If Aedui or Belgae and the Region already has at least one of that 
Faction’s Allied Tribes or Citadels, place its Warbands up to the 
number of its Allied Tribes and Citadels there.
•	 If Arverni and the Region has an Arverni Allied Tribe, Citadel, 
or Leader, place Arverni Warbands up to the number of Arverni 
Ally, Citadel, and Leader pieces there plus one. 
•	 If the Faction has an Allied Tribe at a City, replace the Ally with 
that Faction’s Citadel.
HOME REGION: A Faction that Rallies in a Region marked with 
its symbol and “Rally”—Arverni in the Arverni Region, Aedui in 
the Aedui Region, or Belgae in any Belgica Region—may place 
at least one of its Warbands there even if it has no Ally, Leader, or 
Citadel there.
VERCINGETORIX: The Arverni may Rally even in a Devastated 
Region if that Region has Vercingetorix. Arverni Rally in a Region 
that has Vercingetorix may place an Ally even without Arverni 
Control. Finally, it may place either an Ally or Citadel and also 
place Warbands, in either order; placement must otherwise be per 
the above procedures.
DESIGN NOTE: Placing Citadels represents the readying of 
existing fortified places for war by gathering arms, provisions, 
and warriors.
PLAY NOTE: Gauls can Rally to exchange a Citadel and Ally 
between two Cities by first replacing the Citadel with an Ally 
disc (1.4.1).
3.3.2 March. Marching moves and/or hides Gallic Forces. Gauls 
may not March upon Frost (2.3.8). Select and pay one Resource 
for each origin Region, two if Devastated (4.3.2) at the moment se-
lected. Form groups of the executing Faction’s pieces—groups may 
include a Leader and Warbands but not Allied Tribes nor Citadels. 
Pieces within a Region may make up multiple groups. March no 
piece more than once. If this is a Limited Command (2.3.5), select 
just one origin Region. 
PROCEDURE: Origin Region by origin Region, flip all the March-
ing Faction’s Revealed Warbands there to Hidden; or, for Scouted 
Warbands (4.2.2), instead remove the Scouted marker and leave them 
Revealed; then move each Marching group one by one together into 
an adjacent Region, if desired. 
BRITANNIA: If any group moves into or out of Britannia, no Spe-
cial Ability may accompany this March Command (1.3.4, 4.0); if 
a Special Ability has already been added, no pieces may move into 
or out of Britannia on this March. 

VERCINGETORIX: Vercingetorix and any group of Warbands 
Marching with him may enter a 2nd adjacent Region at no added 
cost. Restrictions are the same as Roman March into a 2nd Region 
(3.2.2), including drop off, Harassment, Devastated, Rhenus, and 
Britannia. Romans may use Hidden Auxilia in the 1st Region to 
Harass (inflict Losses on) the Arverni passing through. 
3.3.3 Raid. Raids add Resources, including stealing from enemies. 
Select any Regions where the executing Faction has Hidden 
Warbands. Pay no Resources.
PROCEDURE: In each selected Region, the executing Faction flips 
one or two of its Hidden Warbands to Revealed. For each Warband 
that flipped, it either: 
•	 Adds one Resource, but only if the Region is not Devastated 
(4.3.2), OR 
•	 Takes one Resource from a non-Germanic enemy that has pieces 
in the Region but neither Citadel nor Fort. 
3.3.4 Gallic Battle. Battle destroys enemy Forces, including Sub-
duing enemy Allied Tribes and Citadels. Select any Regions with 
both own and other Forces. Pay one Resource per Region, two if 
Devastated (4.3.2). NOTE: Gallic Battle repeats much of the Roman 
Battle Procedure (3.2.4). See also the Battle play aid.
PROCEDURE: In each of the selected Regions at a time, execute 
Battle in the following order.
•	 Step 1 Target—Attacker selects one Faction with pieces in the 
Region as the Defender.
•	 Step 2 Declare Retreat—Unless the Defender is facing an 
Ambush (3.4.4, 4.3.3, 4.4.3, 4.5.3), is Germanic, or has only 
Allied Tribe (disc), Citadel, or Fort pieces, it declares whether it 
will Retreat. Defenders may not Retreat from Ambush. Germans 
never Retreat. Allied Tribe, Citadel, and Fort pieces alone may 
not Retreat. If the Retreat (in Step 6) is to be to another Faction’s 
Control, that Faction must agree (1.5.2) during this Step. The 
Germans never agree.
•	 Step 3 Attack—Attacking Forces in the Battle cause Losses to 
the Defending Faction’s Forces as specified under “LOSSES” 
•	 Step 4 Counterattack—If the Defender declared a Retreat, skip 
this step. If not, surviving Defenders cause Losses to Attackers 
per below. NOTE: Ambush can block Counterattack (3.4.4, 4.3.3, 
4.4.3, 4.5.3).
•	 Step 5 Reveal—If a Retreat, skip this step. If not, flip all Hidden 
Warbands and Auxilia of both the Attacking and Defending 
Factions in the Region that survived to Revealed.
•	 Step 6 Retreat—If the Defender did declare a Retreat, the 
Defender selects one adjacent Region that is under Control of 
the Defender or a Faction that has agreed (not No Control). The 
Defender must either move all its surviving Leader, Warbands, 
Auxilia, and Legions to that Region or remove them. Allied Tribes, 
Citadels, and Forts stay in the Region. NOTE: Unlike in a Roman 
Attack, no Retreating Leaders nor Warbands may stay.
LOSSES: The Faction suffering Losses to its Forces, when an option, 
chooses which of its own pieces to remove and whether to roll a 
die to possibly remove a piece, or to instead automatically remove 
other pieces, as follows. 
•	 A Faction must either remove pieces or roll dice, in a sum equal to 
½ for each enemy Warband or Auxilia, plus one per enemy Leader, 
plus one per enemy Legion in the Battle. A Defender taking such 
Losses when Ambiorix (yellow, Belgic Leader) is Attacking must 
take one for each Belgic Warband, not just ½. 
•	 The above sum is cut in half for Defenders who are either 
Retreating or have a Citadel or Fort. NOTE: Roman Forts in Battle 
work the same as Gallic Citadels. 
•	 After totaling Losses, round fractions down.
•	 While a Faction has at least one Legion, Citadel, Fort, or Leader 
in the Battle, and that piece is able per the bullets below to absorb 
a Loss, the Faction may roll a die instead of removing a piece. If 
the roll is a 1, 2, or 3 (only), the Faction must remove the Legion, 
Citadel, Fort, or Leader (Legion to Fallen, 1.4.1). If the roll is a 
4, 5, or 6, the Loss is absorbed without removing any piece. Such 
a piece that survives on a roll of 4-6 may be the target of more 
rolls to absorb further Losses, until removed on 1-3. (See Ambush, 
3.4.4, 4.3.3.)
•	 If the Faction taking Losses is a Defender who has opted to Retreat, 
the first Losses taken must be any Allied Tribes and (via die rolls) 
any Citadel or Fort. In all other cases, any Allied Tribes, Citadel, or 
Fort may only take Losses after all other pieces of that Faction in 
the Region have already been removed. (Germans always remove 
their Warbands before any of their Allied Tribes, see 3.4.5.)
•	 Provincia Fort never absorbs Losses (1.4.2).
3.4 Germanic Commands
The Germanic Tribes Faction during the Germans Phase 
(6.2) or when guided by another Faction via Enlist (4.5.1) 
or Event (5.0) uses Commands similar to those of the 
Gauls (3.3), but costing 0 and differing as follows.
3.4.1 Germanic Rally. Place a Germanic Ally only if the Region 
already has Germanic Control (1.6, and never at Aedui [Bibracte] 
or Arverni [Gergovia], 1.4.2). Then place Germanic Warbands up 
to the number of Germanic Allied Tribes—even if an Ally was just 
placed in that Region on the same Rally.
HOME REGION: In Germania Regions, Germanic Rally places at 
least one Warband even if no Germanic Ally is present. 
NOTE: Similar to Gauls, Germans may not Rally in Devastated 
Regions (3.3.1, 4.3.2).
3.4.2 Germanic March. Germanic Warbands within a March ori-
gin Region may form at most a single moving Group to enter one 
adjacent Region (any Warbands may stay behind). All Warbands in 
Regions selected for March flip to Hidden (or remove their Scouted 
marker, 4.2.2), whether or not they move.
3.4.3 Germanic Raid. The target of Germanic Raid is always a 
Faction. The target reduces its Resources, but the Germans do not 
receive them, as Germanic Resources are not tracked (1.8).
3.4.4 Germanic Battle and Ambush. Germans only initiate Battle 
when they can Ambush—the Germans’ only Special Ability (4.1, 
4.3.3, 6.2.4)—and always Ambush when they Battle. Therefore, 
they only opt for Battle where they have more Hidden pieces than 

an enemy. NOTE: Germanic Battle repeats Gallic Battle Procedure 
(3.3.4), minus Steps 2 and 6.
PROCEDURE: Execute Germanic Battle in each applicable Region 
as follows.
•	 Step 1 Target—Germans select one non-German Faction with 
pieces in the Region (usually randomly, 6.2.4) as the Defender.
NOTE: Skip Step 2; there will be no Retreat.
•	 Step 3 Attack—The Defending Faction takes Losses as specified 
below. (If the Romans are Defending with Caesar, they roll to 
determine how they may absorb Losses.) 
•	 Step 4 Counterattack—If and only if Caesar rolled a 4-6 in Step 
3, Germans take Losses.
•	 Step 5 Reveal—Reveal surviving German and Defending Hidden 
Warbands and Auxilia.
NOTE: Skip Step 6; there is no Retreat.
LOSSES: The Defender, when an option, chooses which of its own 
pieces to remove. Unlike normal Battle and as in other Ambush 
(4.3.3), the Defender must remove a piece for each Loss suffered, 
including Leader, Legion, Citadel, or Fort without first rolling a 1-3. 
•	 The Defender must remove pieces in a sum equal to ½ per 
Germanic Warband there, or half that sum if Defenders have a 
Citadel or Fort (then round down). 
•	 The Defender must remove a piece for each Loss suffered, 
including Leader, Legion, Citadel, or Fort without first rolling 
a 1-3. EXCEPTION: Romans Defending in the same Region as 
Caesar on a die roll of 4, 5, or 6 may absorb Losses by rolling a 
die and removing Legion, Caesar, or Fort only on 1-3.
•	 Any Defending Allied Tribes, Citadel, or Fort may only take 
Losses after all other Defending pieces there have been removed.
•	 Germans Counterattacked by Caesar (on a 4-6) remove Warbands 
then Allies (3.4.5) equal to ½ per Auxilia (round down), plus one 
for Caesar, plus one per Legion in the Battle. 
3.4.5 Germanic Losses, Harassment, and Agreement. Germans 
suffering Losses in Battle (3.2.4, 3.3.4) remove their Scouted, then 
their other Revealed, then Hidden Warbands; finally they remove 
their Allies, from Cities last (if any), otherwise chosen at random. 
Germans always Harass (3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.3.2) and never agree to 
Supply Lines or Retreat in Regions with German Control (3.2.1, 
3.2.4, 3.3.4).
4.0 SPECIAL ABILITIES
4.1 Special Abilities in General 
When a Faction per the Event card sequence of play (2.3) executes 
a Command in at least one Region (3.0), it may also execute one 
type of its Special Abilities (EXCEPTION: Limited Commands, 
2.3.5). The Germanic Tribes have only one Special Ability—Am-
bush—which they use each time they initiate Battle (3.4.4, 6.2.4). 
Some Special Abilities (Build, Entreat, Suborn) cost Resources. 
Events may grant free Special Abilities (they neither cost Resources 
nor further affect Eligibility, 3.1.2, 5.4). As with Commands, the 
executing Faction selects Regions, Tribes, Factions, or pieces af-
fected and in what order. Select a given Region only once for a 
given Special Ability. 
•	 A Faction may execute its Special Ability at any one time 
immediately before, during, or immediately after its Command. 
EXAMPLE: The Aedui run out of Resources while Rallying, 
Trade to gain Resources (4.4.1), then continue Rally in additional 
Regions.
•	 Certain Special Abilities—Besiege (4.2.3) and Ambush (4.3.3, 
etc.)—modify the procedures of accompanying Battle Commands 
rather than interrupting them with separate actions.
NOTE: If the 1st Eligible Faction uses a Special Ability, the 
2nd Eligible will have the option to execute the Event, and vice 
versa (2.3.4). 
4.1.1. Accompanying Commands. Some Special Abilities specify 
that they may only be added to certain Commands (3.0), some only 
whether the Special Ability and Command may or must select the 
same Regions.
4.1.2 Leaders and Special Abilities. As noted in each case below, 
most Roman, Arverni, and Belgae Special Abilities may select only 
Regions within one Region of the Faction’s named Leader (same 
Region or adjacent), or the same Region that has its Successor Leader 
(1.4, 1.4.3, 6.6). Roman Scout and Besiege are less restrictive in the 
requirement for a Leader (4.2.2, 4.2.3). Aedui have no Leader; their 
Special Abilities are limited to a maximum number of Regions (4.5). 
Germanic Ambush requires only enough Hidden Warbands (3.4.4).
NOTE: “Within 1 Region of” means in the same and/or adjacent 
Regions (1.3.1). 
4.1.3 Britannia. No Special Ability may accompany March into or 
out of Britannia (1.3.4, 3.2.2, 3.3.2).
4.2 Roman Special Abilities
The Romans may choose from Build, Scout, or Besiege 
4.2.1 Build. Building constructs forts or public works to subdue or 
ally with tribes under Roman control. It may accompany Recruit, 
March, or Seize Commands (3.2.1-.3), not Battle (but see restric-
tion below on Seize Regions). Select Regions for Build that both: 
•	 Have a Roman Ally in them already, or are part of a Supply Line 
to Cisalpina (3.2.1) and have any Roman piece in it.
•	 Are within one Region of Caesar (the same Region as Caesar is 
in, or adjacent to him) or is the Region that the Roman Successor 
Leader (1.4) is in. 
PROCEDURE: The Romans select Regions desired for Build and 
Supply Lines. Factions declare whether or not they agree to have the 
Supply Line include Regions they Control. In each Build Region, 
the Romans do one or both:
•	 Place a Fort (if none already there, 1.4, 1.4.2).
•	 And/or, if the Region is now under Roman Control (1.6, including 
due to the new Fort) and if that Region is not selected for a Seize 
that accompanying Command (3.2.3, 4.1.1), either Subdue 
(remove) any one Gallic or Germanic Allied Tribe there (a disc, 
not a Citadel), or place a Roman Ally at an already Subdued Tribe 
there (not at Aedui [Bibracte], Arverni [Gergovia], or Suebi, 1.4.2).

The Romans must pay two Resources for each Fort and each Ally 
placed or removed above.
PLAY NOTE: A Roman tactic is to March into an enemy’s Region 
and immediately Build a Fort. Doing so requires enough Forces 
to cancel enemy Control in order to establish a Supply Line, or 
already having a Roman Ally there.
4.2.2 Scout. Scouting can move Auxilia, Reveal Hidden 
Warbands, and keep them Revealed longer. It may ac-
company any type of Command. Select any Regions with 
Auxilia (even if no Leader nearby).
PROCEDURE: Move Auxilia as desired from any Regions to 
adjacent Regions, but not into or out of Britannia (Revealed stay 
Revealed, Hidden stay Hidden; no piece may move more than once). 
Then, in any Regions desired that are within one Region of Caesar 
or with his Successor in it, each Hidden Auxilia piece may flip to 
Revealed in order to Reveal up to two Warbands (flip from Hidden 
to Revealed, or leave Revealed, 1.4.3) in that Region and place 
Scouted markers on them (if none already).
NOTE: Scout movement may combine with accompanying March 
movement (3.2.2).
SCOUTED: Scouted markers delay Revealed Warbands flipping 
back to Hidden: whenever an action (such as March, 3.3.2, 3.4.2) 
or an Event (5.0) would flip a Scouted Warband to Hidden, instead 
remove the Scouted marker and keep the Warband Revealed. 
(Scouted markers are removed and all Warbands go Hidden at the 
end of Winter, 6.6.)
	
Hidden	
Revealed	
Revealed & Scouted
NOTE: Put a single Scouted marker on each group of Scouted 
Warbands of the same Faction in a Region.
4.2.3 Besiege. Besieging helps subdue enemy tribes, especially 
Citadels. It may only accompany Battle (3.2.4). Once announced, 
it may modify any Battle Regions during that Command that both 
have at least one Legion and a Defender who has a Citadel or Allied 
Tribe. NOTE: Besiege does not have a Special Ability’s usual need 
of a nearby Leader (4.1.2).
PROCEDURE: In those Battles, before and in addition to any Losses 
(even 0 Losses) inflicted on the Defender, the (Roman) Attacker 
may automatically remove (Subdue) a Defending Citadel or Allied 
Tribe (no roll, Attacker’s choice which), regardless of whether or 
not the Defender is Retreating. NOTE: A Defender with a Citadel 
still suffers only half Losses that Battle, even after the Citadel is 
removed (3.2.4).
4.3 Arverni Special Abilities
The Arverni choose from Entreat, Devastate, or Ambush 
4.3.1 Entreat. Entreaties sponsor betrayals of allegiance 
from the enemy to the Arverni. They may accompany any type of 
Command. Select Regions that have a Hidden Arverni Warband, and 
are either within one Region of Vercingetorix or the same Region 
as his Successor. 
PROCEDURE: Pay one Resource per Region selected to replace 
either any one non-Arverni Warband or Auxilia there or—only if 
the Region is already Arverni Controlled—one Aedui, Belgic, or 
Germanic Allied Tribe there (not a Citadel, Roman Ally, or Subdued 
Tribe) with their Arverni counterparts (one Arverni Warband for 
each enemy Warband or Auxilia, one Allied Tribe per enemy Allied 
Tribe). If the specified Arverni piece is not available or could not 
stack (such as at Aedui [Bibracte] or Suebi), remove rather than 
replace the target piece (1.4.1, 1.4.2).
4.3.2 Devastate. Devastation starves armies and hinders 
many actions. It may accompany any Commands. Select 
any Arverni-Controlled Regions that either are within 
one Region of Vercingetorix or have his Successor in it.
PROCEDURE: In each Region, the Arverni remove one in four of 
their Warbands there, and each other Faction removes one in three 
of its total number of Warbands, Auxilia, and Legions there (round 
down; owners choose which pieces among candidates; Legions to 
Fallen). Place a Devastated marker in each selected Region that 
does not already have one. A Region may have only one Devastated 
marker.
NOTE: Devastated markers block Recruit (3.2.1) and Rally by all 
except Vercingetorix (Arverni Leader, 3.3.1), double the Resource 
costs of many Commands (3.2.2,-.4; 3.3.1,-.2,-.4), halt Roman 
and Vercingetorix March (3.2.2, 3.3.2), block Roman Seizure of 
Resources (3.2.3), hinder Raid (3.3.3), and make it harder for 
Forces to Quarter in a Region over Winter (6.3).
4.3.3 Ambush. Ambush improves the attacker’s prospects in battles 
about to be fought. It may only accompany Battle. Once announced, 
it may modify any Battle Regions during that Command that both 
begin with more Hidden Arverni than Hidden Defenders and occur 
either within one Region of Vercingetorix or in the same Region as 
his Successor. 
PROCEDURE: Battles modified by Ambush alter their procedure 
(3.2.4, 3.3.4, 3.4.4) thus—
•	 The Defender may not Retreat (but may use any Fort or Citadel 
normally).
•	 The Defender must remove a piece for each Loss suffered, 
including Leader, Legion, Citadel, or Fort without first rolling 
a 1-3. EXCEPTION: Romans Defending in the same Region as 
Caesar on a die roll of 4, 5, or 6 retain the usual ability to absorb 
Losses by rolling a die and removing only on 1-3.
•	 There is no Counterattack (Attacker takes no Losses) except if 
Caesar rolled a 4-6 above.
4.4 Aedui Special Abilities
The Aedui choose from Trade, Suborn, or Ambush Spe-
cial Abilities.
4.4.1 Trade. Trade garners Aedui Resources, represent-
ing profit from the distribution of imported Roman goods. It may 
accompany any type of Command. It occurs in Regions that are part 
of any Supply Lines to Cisalpina (3.2.1).

PROCEDURE: Player Factions declare whether or not they agree to 
Supply Lines in Regions they Control; the Romans declare regardless 
of whether they Control any relevant Regions. (The Aedui may call 
off the Trade if unhappy with any disagreement, 1.5.2.) The Aedui 
then receive +1 Resource—or, if the Romans agreed above, +2 
Resources—for each of the following within Supply Lines: 
•	 Each Aedui Allied Tribe and Aedui Citadel. 
•	 Where Aedui Control only—each Subdued Tribe and, only if the 
Romans agreed above, each Roman Allied Tribe. 
PLAY NOTE: The Aedui can offer some of the added Resources 
to gain agreement.
4.4.2 Suborn. Suborning buys allegiance to the Aedui or others, 
greater or less subservience to Rome, or neutrality. It may accompany 
Rally, March, or Raid and occur in any one Region with a Hidden 
Aedui Warband.
PROCEDURE: Pay two Aedui Resources per Ally and one Aedui 
Resource per Warband or Auxilia to remove and/or place a total of 
up to three such pieces in the Suborn Region (in any combination). 
A maximum of one of the three pieces removed or placed in the 
Region may be an Allied Tribe (no Citadels). Any Faction’s pieces 
may be involved. Place Allies only at Subdued Tribes (place only 
Aedui at Aedui [Bibracte], only Arverni at Arverni [Gergovia], only 
Germanic at Suebi, 1.4.2). 
NOTES: Control is not needed to Suborn Allies. The Convicto-
litavis Capability (5.3) would enable the Aedui to Suborn a total 
of six pieces (at most two Allies), three in each of two Regions.
4.4.3 Ambush. Aedui Ambush works the same as Arverni Ambush 
(4.3.3) except using Aedui instead of Arverni pieces. No Leader is 
required, but the Aedui may only Ambush in a maximum of one 
Region per Battle Command.
4.5 Belgic Special Abilities
The Belgae choose from Enlist, Rampage, or Ambush 
4.5.1 Enlist. Enlist invites help from Germanic kinsmen. It may 
accompany any Command and affect Regions in or adjacent to Ger-
mania or Regions that are further from Germania but have Germanic 
pieces in them. The affected Regions also must be within one Region 
of Ambiorix or have the Belgic Successor in it. 
PROCEDURE: Choose one of two options below. 
Either, in the affected Regions 
desired, the accompanying 
Belgic Command treats 
Germanic Warbands (black) as if they were Belgic Warbands 
(yellow), including for placing new Warbands by Rally, Marching 
groups out of an affected Region into adjacent Regions (whether 
the destination is affected by Enlist or not), flipping Marching 
Warbands to Hidden, resolving Raid or Battle, or determining 
Belgic Control. Command costs and other Command restrictions 
and procedures apply normally. The Belgae may not voluntarily 
remove the Germanic Warbands, however (1.4.1). As soon as 
execution of the current Belgic Command is completed, so is 
Enlist, and all Germanic Warbands again are treated as Germanic 
(adjust Control). 
•	 Or, execute one free Limited Command with Germanic pieces 
(per 3.4, making choices as if a Germanic player; no March upon 
Frost, 2.3.8). The Region need not be one selected for the Belgic 
Command, but must be in the usual vicinity of the Belgic Leader 
for a Special Ability. Marching Germans must begin in but need 
not stay within the affected Regions; they may enter or leave 
Britannia. Battling Germans must be able to Ambush (3.4.4), and 
Ambush whenever they Battle.
ENLIST EXAMPLE: The Belgae, with Ambiorix in the Nervii 
Region, Rally (3.3.1) and Enlist to place two Germanic Warbands 
there, plus one Germanic Warband in the Treveri Region (as if 
placing Belgae), for three Resources total (3.3.1).
4.5.2 Rampage. Rampaging demonstrates Belgic ferocity, in order 
to frighten enemy Forces out of one or more Regions and sometimes 
to compel their surrender. It may accompany Rally, Raid, or Battle. 
It may occur in any Regions both with Hidden Belgic Warbands 
present and either within one Region of Ambiorix or with the Belgic 
Successor present.
PROCEDURE: In each Rampage Region, a Region at a time—
•	 Select one target Roman or Gallic Faction (not Germanic) that 
has neither a Leader, nor a Citadel, nor a Fort in the Region.
•	 That target Faction must either remove or Retreat one of its 
Warbands, Auxilia, and/or Legions (no roll) per Hidden Belgic 
Warband in the Region that the Belgae flip to Revealed. Removed 
Legions go to Fallen (1.4.1).
•	 Retreat per the Battle procedure (3.2.4 & 3.3.4)—into one adjacent 
Region where the targeted Faction or a Faction that agrees at that 
moment has Control (not No Control nor Germanic Control). 
4.5.3 Ambush. Belgic Ambush works like Arverni Ambush (4.3.3), 
but uses Belgic instead of Arverni pieces (including Ambiorix instead 
of Vercingetorix), and Caesar must roll a 5 or 6 for Romans to roll 
for Losses and Counterattack.

5.0 EVENTS
Each Event bears a Faction Order (2.3), title, italicized flavor text, 
and Event text. Flavor text adds historical interest; it has no effect 
on play.
5.1 Executing Events
When a Faction executes an Event, it carries out the Event text 
literally and in the order given (sometimes involving actions or deci-
sions by other Factions). Unless otherwise specified, the executing 
Faction makes all selections allowed for in implementing the text, 
such as which pieces are affected. Some Events with lasting effects 
have markers as aids to play. NOTE: Instructions to place pieces, 
unless otherwise specified (such as by “any”), mean the placing 
Faction’s pieces.
Laurels (regards 
Non-players, 8.2.1)
Italicized 
Flavor Text
Capability 
Indicator (5.3)
Shaded Text 
(see Dual Use 5.2)
Event Text 
Faction Order
Title
5.1.1 Events vs Rules. When executing Event text, follow normal 
rules, such as restrictions and procedures for free actions granted 
(5.4), unless otherwise specified. Where Event text contradicts rules, 
the Event takes precedence, except that: 
•	 Events never place pieces that are not Available (1.4.1); they 
remove rather than replace if the replacement is not available. 
NOTE: The executing Faction can remove own pieces to make 
them Available (1.4.1).
•	 Events may not violate stacking (1.4.2) unless their text explicitly 
changes stacking rules. NOTE: The only Events that do so are 
Colony, Gallia Togata, and Gobannitio. Events remove rather 
than replace pieces if the new piece would violate stacking. 
•	 Events do not raise Resources above 45; any excess Resources 
are lost (1.8).
•	 Instructions to Reveal or Hide pieces affect only Warbands and 
Auxilia (1.4.3). Events that flip Scouted Warbands to Hidden 
instead remove the Scouted marker (4.2.2). 
•	 Events that shift the Senate when Firm (toward the opposite end) 
instead flip the Senate marker (regardless of boxes to be shifted, 
6.5.1) and that shift up from Uproar or down from Adulation 
instead set it to Firm.
EXAMPLE: Event text that says “free March” allows March 
even upon Frost (2.3.8).
NOTE: For help executing a particular Event, see the “tips” in 
the Playbook Event Notes.
5.1.2 Dueling Events. If two Events contradict, the currently played 
Event takes precedence.
5.1.3 Partial Execution. All of an executed Event’s text that can 
be carried out (within any selections that the text allows, 5.1), must 
be; if not all can be, carry out that which can.
5.1.4 Event Markers. A few Events with lasting effects note in 
their text to place or flip reminder markers on the map. (See also 
Capabilities, 5.3.)
5.2 Dual Use
Most Events have both shaded and unshaded Event text. The execut-
ing Faction may select either the unshaded or shaded text to carry 
out (not both). While the shaded text often favors various Gauls, a 
player may select either text option regardless of Faction.
DESIGN NOTE: Dual-use events represent opposed effects 
of the same cause, alternative interpretations, or forks in the 
historical road.
5.3 Capabilities 
Events marked “CAPABILITY” have lasting 
effects that either help or hurt one or more 
Factions. When executing such text, put the 
card near the most affected player and place a “Capability” marker 
on its appropriate side (shaded or unshaded) onto the card. The 
Event’s effects last for the rest of the game (unless altered by a 
later Event, 5.1.2).
NOTE: “CAPABILITY” marked on the 
boundary between unshaded and 
shaded Dual-use text (5.2) means that both versions are Capa-
bilities.
5.4 Free Actions
Many Events allow the Executing or other Factions immediate 
Commands or Special Abilities that interrupt the usual sequence and 
are free: they cost no Resources and do not further affect Eligibility 
(3.1.2, 2.3.1). Other aspects such as location requirements remain, 
unless modified by Event text (5.1.1). Events granting an unspeci-
fied “Special Ability” may only select Besiege (4.2.3) and Ambush 
(4.3.3) if an accompanying Battle Command (3.2.4, 3.3.4, 4.1.1) is 
also occurring as part of the Event. Events stating “Ambush” alone 
grant an inherent accompanying Battle Command.
EXAMPLE: Aedui free Rally (3.3.1) would cost 0 Resources and 
not affect Aedui Eligibility but still could not occur in Devastated 
Regions unless otherwise specified, such as by allowing “Rally in 
any Region”. Aedui free Suborn (4.4.2) would allow placement 
and/or removal of three pieces in one Region at 0 cost.
NOTE: Free March or Scout “in” a Region allows Forces there 
to move out to other Regions (3.2.2, 4.2.2).

6.0 WINTER
As each Winter card is played, conduct a Winter Round 
in the sequence of phases below. The Sequence of Play 
sheet and game board also list this sequence. 
NOTE: The next card may be viewed normally dur-
ing resolution of a Winter card (2.3.7).
6.1 Victory Phase
If any Faction has met its Victory condition, the game ends now 
(EXCEPTIONS: Spare Factions, 1.5.1; 54BC scenario, 2.1; and 
1-Player, 8.9); see Victory (7.0) to determine winner and rank order. 
If it is the final Winter card (2.4.1), the game also ends; determine 
victory per 7.3. If neither, continue the Winter Round. 
6.2 Germans Phase
Germanic Forces Rally, March, Raid, and Battle with 
Ambush as follows. 
NOTE: Individual Germanic pieces may participate 
in several types of Commands during the course of a single 
Germans Phase.
6.2.1 Germanic Rally.
•	 First, Rally to place as many Germanic Allied Tribes as possible 
per the Rally procedure (3.3.1, 3.4.1), starting with Suebi, then 
others in the Germania Regions, then elsewhere.
•	 Then Rally in those and other Regions to place as many Germanic 
Warbands as possible (including where Allies were just placed, 
and in un-Devastated Germania Regions even if no Germanic 
Allies there).
•	 Choose among otherwise equal locations randomly (using an 
equal chance die roll).
•	 Adjust Control as needed. 
6.2.2 Germanic March.
•	 Next, form a group of Germanic Warbands to March out of each 
Region that has at least one Germanic Warband beyond the pieces 
needed for Germanic Control (1.6), regardless of any Rally there. 
NOTE: Germans where no Germanic Control or where exactly 
enough for such Control therefore would not move.
•	 March out with as many Warbands as possible without losing 
Germanic Control. Move the largest Warband groups first.
•	 Move into at most one Region with each group (3.3.2, 3.4.2). 
Select destination Regions first so that the moving groups can add 
Germanic Control (so, not yet German-Controlled), then (among 
such Regions if possible, otherwise among others) Regions that are 
Controlled by player Factions (not Non-players, 8.0), then other 
Regions. Choose among equal candidate locations randomly. 
•	 Adjust Control as needed. 
•	 Flip all Germanic Warbands to Hidden (or remove their Scouted 
markers, 4.2.2). (Warbands that did not move in effect Marched 
within their Regions.)
6.2.3 Germanic Raid. 
•	 Then, Raid (3.3.3, 3.4.3) with as many Germanic Warbands as 
able per below, only against Factions.
•	 Raid only against Factions that have more than 0 Resources (and 
no Fort or Citadel) and only until they reach 0 Resources. 
•	 Raid against player before Non-player Factions (8.0). Otherwise, 
choose randomly among target Factions within a Region.
6.2.4 Germanic Battle with Ambush.
•	 Finally, Battle with Ambush (3.3.4, 3.4.4, 4.1) in each Region 
where the Germans currently are able to do so (only wherever 
Hidden Germanic Warbands are with another Faction with fewer 
Hidden pieces) and would cause an enemy Loss. Adjust Control 
as needed.
•	 Battle player before Non-player Factions (8.0).
•	 Choose the order of the Battles and among otherwise equal 
candidates in each randomly.
6.3 Quarters Phase
Each Faction relocates its Forces on the map as follows (adjusting 
Control as needed, 1.6).
NOTE: Factions may transfer Resources during the Quarters 
and Harvest Phases (1.5.2).
6.3.1 Germans. All Germanic Warbands in Devastated 
Regions (4.3.2) without German Allies and outside Ger-
mania relocate to Germania. Roll a die and relocate all 
of them to the Sugambri Region on 1, 2, or 3, or the Ubii Region 
on a 4, 5, or 6.
6.3.2 Gauls. First the Belgae, then the Aedui, then the Arverni 
relocate and roll for their own Warbands and Leaders on the map 
as follows: 
•	 They may relocate any such pieces to any adjacent Regions 
without Devastated markers (4.3.2) and under Control (1.6) of 
their Faction or a Faction that agrees (not No Control nor German 
Control).
•	 Then they must roll a die for each Warband they have in 
Devastated Regions in which they have neither Allied Tribe nor 
Citadel and remove the Warband on a roll of 1-3.
6.3.3 Romans. The Romans may relocate any Legions, Auxilia, 
and Roman Leader on the map to adjacent, un-Devastated Regions 
under Roman Control or Control of a Faction that agrees (not No 
Control nor German Control, 1.6). Then, the Romans may relocate 
any Legions and Auxilia from Supply Line Regions (3.2.1, deter-
mined at this time for the rest of the Quarters Phase) and then the 
Roman Leader from any Region to Provincia. Finally, for each 
Legion and Auxilia piece in Regions outside Provincia, the Romans 
must choose one:
•	 Pay to keep it in place—one Roman Resource if the Region has 
a Roman Allied Tribe, or two Roman Resources if not, or twice 
that amount (two or four total) if it is Devastated (4.3.2). One 
such piece per Roman Ally and per Fort may stay in that Region 
without such payment.
•	 Roll a die and remove the piece on a 1-3 (Legion to Fallen). 
NOTE: Getting the Roman Leader to Provincia adds Auxilia 
during the Senate Phase (6.5.3).

QUARTERS RELOCATE EXAMPLE: Romans Control the 
Mandubii Region, the Aedui Control the Sequani Region, and 
the Aedui player agrees to allow a Roman Supply Line there, 
reaching Cisaplina (3.2.1). The Romans relocate two Legions 
from Mandubii to Provincia; Arverni Control of Provincia does 
not block the Supply Line so is ignored.
6.4 Harvest Phase
Add to each Faction’s Resources, to a maximum of 45 each (1.8), 
as follows.
6.4.1 Roman Earnings. The Romans receive Resources equal to 
their current Victory score (Subdued plus Dispersed plus Roman 
Allied Tribes, 7.2). 
6.4.2 Gallic Earnings. The Arverni, Aedui, and Belgae each receive 
Resources equal to twice the number of that Faction’s Allied Tribes 
and Citadels.
6.4.3 River Tolls. The Aedui receive a further +4 Resources.
6.5 Senate Phase
The Roman Senate weighs in on the Gal-
lic campaign and sends reinforcements 
to Gaul.
DESIGN NOTE: The Senate marker embodies all political affairs 
in Rome affecting the Gallic war.
6.5.1 Senate Marker. Various Events (5.0) and this Senate Phase 
shift the Senate marker up or down or flip it between “Firm” and not:
•	 Any shift toward “Uproar” (or “up”) when the Senate marker is 
already at Uproar instead flips it to Firm (if not already Firm); any 
shift toward “Adulation” (or “down”) when already at Adulation, 
also flips it to Firm instead. Any other shift (toward the opposite 
end) when Firm instead flips the marker back to normal (without 
moving it).
•	 In this phase, if the current Roman Victory score is below 10, shift 
the Roman Senate marker by one box (row) toward Uproar (or 
flip the marker per above). If Roman Victory is anywhere from 
10 to 12, shift Roman Senate toward Intrigue. If Roman Victory 
exceeds 12, shift Roman Senate one row toward Adulation (or flip 
per above). EXCEPTION: Do not shift down (toward Adulation, 
including to Intrigue from Uproar) if any Legions are in the Fallen 
box. 
6.5.2 Legions. One half (rounded down) of Legions in the Fallen 
Legions box will remain unavailable to reenter the map this Winter. 
Move the rest from Fallen to the Legions Track, filling lowest rows 
first. Then place into Provincia all Legions that are on the same row 
as the Roman Senate marker or above that row. 
NOTE: The Roman player may not decline these Legions, nor are 
any Legions removed from the map in this phase. Adjust Control 
of Provincia, if needed. 
6.5.3 Auxilia. If the Roman Leader is in Provincia, place the fol-
lowing number of Auxilia from Available into that Region: three 
Auxilia if the Senate is in Uproar, four if Intrigue, five if Adulation.
6.6 Spring Phase
Prepare for the coming year as follows:
•	 Factions place any Successor Leaders (symbol end down, 1.4.3) 
that they have in Available Forces onto the map where that Faction 
has a piece or a Home Region “Rally” or “Recruit” symbol (1.3.1).
•	 Move any remaining Fallen Legions to the Legions Track (1.4.1).
•	 Remove all Scouted markers (4.2.2), then flip all Revealed 
Warbands and Auxilia to Hidden (1.4.3). (All such pieces end the 
phase Hidden.)
•	 Remove all Devastated markers (4.3.2).
•	 Remove all Dispersed-Gathering markers (only), then flip all 
Dispersed Tribes to Dispersed-Gathering (1.7, 3.2.3). (Do not 
remove or flip Razed marker from the Sacking Event, 5.0)
•	 Mark all Factions Eligible (2.3.1).
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck and reveal the draw deck’s 
new top card (2.3.7). 

7.0 VICTORY 
Each Roman and Gallic Faction has unique victory conditions, 
covered below and on the Faction aid sheets. 
NOTE: The Germanic Faction does not track or achieve victory.
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
Whenever any Non-player Faction passes a victory check (7.2), all 
players lose equally. Otherwise, whenever any player does so or if 
none does by game end, the Faction that reached the highest victory 
margin (7.3) comes in 1st place, 2nd-highest comes in 2nd place, 
and so on. Ties go to any Non-players (8.0), then the Romans, then 
the Arverni, then the Aedui. 
NOTE: If a player runs two Factions, see 1.5.1. If playing soli-
taire, see 1-Player Victory, 8.9. 
7.2 Exceeding Victory Threshold
Check victory upon each Victory Phase (6.1), comparing the various 
victory totals (in some cases, victory markers, 1.9) to the thresholds 
noted on the Faction foldouts or below. Victory conditions are—
•	 Romans: Subdued plus Dispersed plus Roman Allied Tribes 
exceeds 15.
•	 Arverni: Off-map Legions (Fallen, plus on the Legions Track, 
plus removed by Event) exceed six and Arverni Allied Tribes plus 
Arverni Citadels exceeds eight. 
•	 Aedui: Aedui Allied Tribes plus Citadels exceeds those of each 
other Faction (Gallic, Germanic, and Roman; do not count Forts). 
•	 Belgae: Total Belgic Control Value (Tribe spaces under Belgic 
Control, regardless of Allies, and neither Dispersed nor Suebi) 
plus Belgic Allies and Citadels exceeds 15.
PLAY NOTES: To check the Roman score, add up the numbers 
of non-Roman Allies and Citadels on the map—as shown on the 
four Gallic and Germanic Available Forces displays (1.4.1)—and 
subtract that sum from 30 (the total number of Tribes on the map, 
or from 31 if the Colony Event added a Tribe).
The Arverni, unlike the other Factions, must fulfill both of two 
separate conditions.
Belgic Control Value equals the sum of the Control Value of all 
Regions under Belgic Control (1.3.1, 1.6), including +1 for a 
Region with the “Colony” Event marker (5.0), and -1 for any 
non-Suebi Dispersed Tribe (3.2.3). For example, if the Belgae 
had Control of the Morini Region with both Tribes there as Belgic 
Allies, that would add four to Belgic victory, two each for the 
Control and the Allies.
DESIGN NOTE: A Region’s Control Value equals the number 
of Tribes in the Region, except for Germania’s two Suebi Tribes, 
a guide to that Region’s value to the Belgae. Belgic victory de-
rives in part from Control, to depict their more warlike nature 
than that of Gauls in closer Roman contact—the Belgae seek to 
dominate regions’ inhabitants not only via alliance but militarily, 
by presence of warriors.
7.3 During the Final Winter 
If play reaches the final Winter Round (2.4.1, including game end via 
the Optimates Event) and no Faction has met its condition set forth 
in 7.2, the Faction with the highest victory margin wins. A victory 
margin is the amount a Faction is beyond or short of its condition—
•	 Romans: Subdued plus Dispersed plus Roman Allied Tribes – 15. 
•	 Arverni: Lower of off-map Legions – 6 or Arverni Allied Tribes 
and Citadels – 8. 
•	 Aedui: Aedui-Allied Tribes and Citadels – those of the other 
Faction with the most. 
•	 Belgae: Belgic Control Value + Belgic Allied Tribes and Citadels 
– 15. 
NOTE: The margin will be positive if the Faction has reached 
its goal, negative or zero if not. 
STOP! You have read all rules needed to play with four play-
ers, or with two or three players running spare Factions among 
them (1.5.1).

8.0 NON-PLAYERS 
This section governs Roman and Gallic Factions as an option to 
substitute for players when fewer than four players are available, 
including for solitaire (1.5). NOTE: If players among themselves are 
running the Romans and the three Gallic Factions, this entire sec-
tion is not needed! “Non-players” can substitute for any of the four 
player Factions, but the following combinations are recommended:
•	 With three players, use either the Belgae or Aedui Non-player and 
play the other three Factions.
•	 With two players, play Romans and Arverni and use the Belgae 
and Aedui Non-players.
•	 With one player, play Romans or Arverni and use the remaining 
three Non-players
NOTE: The Germanic Tribes Faction is not a player and has 
its own rules in sections above, especially 3.4 and 6.2. The term 
“Non-player” refers to a substitute for a Gallic or Roman Fac-
tion typically run by a player.
The following four subsections (8.1-8.4) apply to all Non-player 
Factions. They are summarized on the “Non-Player Guidelines” 
aid sheet.
8.1 Non-Players and Sequence of Play
A Roman or Gallic Faction run by rules section 8 is a Non-Player. 
Whenever such a Non-Player Faction has an opportunity to act by 
the Sequence of Play (2.3), consult its Non-Player flowchart sheet 
and the corresponding rules herein (8.5-8.8) to determine its actions, 
such as which Command it will execute, or whether it will opt for an 
Event, or will Pass. Non-players follow the same rules as players—
normal Resource costs, requirements, and procedures apply—except 
as specified in rule 8.1.2 (Limited Commands).
8.1.1 Command or Event? When a Non-player has a choice be-
tween Event and Command, the flowchart will show which it selects. 
In general, Non-players decline the following Events:
•	 Ineffective Events—those that, in the current situation and 
following any relevant Non-player instructions (8.2.1), either 
would have no effect or would merely Reveal (1.4.3) own pieces 
(EXAMPLE: Battle that cannot cause an enemy Loss). Adding 
or removing a Capability is an effect. 
•	 Capabilities (5.3) during the last year of the game (when the next 
Winter will be final).
•	 “No” Events listed at the bottom of each Non-player flowchart 
sheet (and on the Non-player Instructions sheet) and noted by 
crossed swords at that Faction’s symbol on that Event card (8.2.1).
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: Non-player Belgae are 
Eligible to play shaded Flight of Ambiorix. Ambiorix is on the 
map, so nothing would happen. The Belgae opt for a Command 
and Special Ability instead.
8.1.2 Non-Player Commands Not Limited. When a 2nd Eligible 
Non-Player by the Sequence of Play is to execute a Limited Com-
mand (2.3.4-.5), the Non-player instead receives a full Command 
plus a Special Ability option. NOTE: A Limited Command by Event, 
such as Druids, remains Limited (5.1.1).
DESIGN NOTE: Non-players receive this benefit to aid them 
against cleverer human players. 
8.1.3 Reading the Flowcharts. The Second Edition Non-Player 
flowcharts show priorities with circled numbers (e.g., u, v, j, k) 
and colored letters (e.g., 
, 
) to indicate their order and nature: 
•	 Numbered priorities (e.g., u, j) are sequential priorities. Execute 
the instructions in each sequential priority to the maximum extent 
before moving to the next sequential priority (8.3). Some top-level 
sequential priorities (black circles; e.g., u, v) contain further 
sequential priorities (white circles; e.g., j, k) that are parts of 
and sequential steps to that top-level priority. 
•	 Lettered priorities (e.g., 
, 
) are nested priorities. Nested 
priorities act as tie breakers within the sequential priorities to 
which they are ordained. Each nested priority further narrows the 
thus-far selected set of spaces or targets. For readability, nested 
priorities have a shaded background. 
8.2 Executing Events
When a Non-player by their flowchart is to execute an Event, apply 
the following. 
8.2.1 Instructions. Certain Events have instructions for certain 
Non-player Factions. The cards for these Events have gray symbols 
at the edges of that Faction’s symbol as a cue:
Laurels indicate that the Event has a special 
instruction for that Non-player Faction on the 
Non-Player Instructions sheet, about how that 
Non-player will execute the Event. Some 
Instructions call for treating the Event as a 
“No” Event (8.1.1), under certain circumstances—return to the 
flowchart to determine a Command.
Swords indicate that that Non-player Faction 
will decline the Event and execute Command 
and Special Ability instead (8.1.1). Such 
Events are listed as “No” Events on both that 
Faction’s flowchart and that Faction’s section 
of the Event Instructions sheet. 
A Carnyx (Celtic battle trumpet) at the Arverni symbol 
indicates that the Non-player Arverni will automati-
cally execute the Event without first rolling a 1-4 (8.7.2). 
Such Events are listed as “Auto 1-4” on both the 
Arverni flowchart and section of the Event Instructions 
sheet.
When a Faction executes an Event that gives actions to another, 
Non-player Faction, the 2nd Faction’s Event special instructions 
(if any) apply to how it executes them. 
EXAMPLE: An Aedui player executes unshaded Germanic 
Chieftains, causing a Non-player Roman to March Germans; 
the Event has laurels at the Roman symbol—check the Roman 
Non-player Event instructions for Germanic Chieftains.
8.2.2 Dual Use. As noted on the Non-player flowcharts, Non-player 
Arverni and Belgae opt for shaded Event text (5.2), if any, Roman 
and Aedui unshaded. 
NOTE: Instructions (8.2.1) may reverse this guidance for certain 
Events.

8.2.3 Event-Driven Actions. Unless Non-player Instructions (8.2.1) 
for a given Event specify otherwise:
•	 When Non-players by Event text are to carry out Commands 
and/or Special Abilities (free actions, 5.4; or Winter Campaign), 
follow that Faction’s Non-Player flowchart to implement them 
(unless otherwise specified in Event Instructions, 8.2.1), applying 
the flowchart’s conditions and priorities to the relevant Regions 
(including for Commands with Germans, such as shaded Surus). 
For multiple free Non-player Commands (such as “March then 
Battle”), use the priorities for the first. NOTE: If a choice among 
Commands, use the Faction’s flowchart to select one. If there is 
a choice among Special Abilities alone, follow the flowchart to 
see which Command and Special Ability is selected, but ignore 
the Command. For free March when the flowchart does not point 
to a particular March box, use the bottom one.
•	 When there is a choice of who gets Event benefits (such as free 
actions, Capabilities, Resources, or pieces), Non-players select 
themselves only. If not possible, treat the Event as Ineffective 
and select a Command instead (8.1.1). EXAMPLE: Non-player 
Arverni are up for shaded Dumnorix Loyalists but have no 
Warbands Available; the text offers a choice of replacing enemy 
pieces with “any Warbands”; in order to carry out the Event fully 
(5.1.3), Arverni would have to select and place another Faction’s 
Warbands, so they execute Command & Special Ability instead.
•	 Within the above (if applicable), select Event spaces to ensure 
that as many Legions, then Citadels, then Allies, then other pieces 
as possible are placed, removed, or replaced (8.3.1). Within that, 
use the priorities in 8.4.1.
•	 When a Non-player executing an Event has a choice that is not 
otherwise prioritized, choose randomly among the possibilities 
(8.3.4). 
8.3 Selecting Regions, Tribes, or Targets
When executing Non-player actions, select Regions, Tribes, or target 
Factions per Command and Special Ability priorities on the Non-
Player flowcharts and corresponding rules below (8.5-8.8), and per 
specific Event Instructions (8.2.1) if any, and otherwise general Event 
guidelines above (8.2.3), as applicable. Do so for each individual 
listed priority in order, until there are no more legal candidates or 
actions for that priority, or until any space limit within that priority 
is reached. Then move on to the next priority and do the same, until 
any overall limit for the Command or Special Ability is reached, or 
until the Faction runs out of Resources (if applicable). Sometimes, 
priorities will provide a precedence of what should be selected first; 
if not, select equal candidates randomly per below (8.3.4).
8.3.1 Event Location Selection. Within above guidelines for 
Event-driven actions (8.2.3) and Event Instructions (8.2.1, if any), 
Non-players select Event Regions and Tribes (including for use of 
Capabilities) to benefit themselves first; then to ensure that Event text 
“places” the most own or “removes” or “replaces” the most enemy 
Legions, then Citadels, then Allies, then other pieces possible (net 
by Faction); then randomly. Unless otherwise specified, carry out 
actions as fully as possible in the selected Region before moving 
on to select others.
8.3.2 Placing Leaders. Place Leaders as soon as able (by Event, 
Spring, or scenario special rule) where the most own pieces.
8.3.3 Using Capabilities. Non-players use Capabilities that they 
have received that apply to a limited number of Regions in the first 
Regions that apply, unless otherwise specified.
8.3.4 Random Selection. Similarly to Germanic actions during the 
Germans Phase (6.2), whenever equal candidate Regions, Tribes, or 
target Factions are offered to a Non-player, select using an equal-
chance die roll.
PLAY NOTE: In the rare case of more than six candidates, split 
them into multiple groups of six or less, as evenly as possible; 
roll to select a group; then roll within the group, spare numbers 
calling for a full reroll. For example, with seven candidates, a 
roll of 1-3 selects the first four, 4-6 the last three; then a roll of 
1-4 if the first set, 1-3 if the second selects the final candidate; 
any other second roll requires a reroll of the first die.
8.4 Other Guidelines
Unless otherwise specified, Non-players carry out whatever actions 
apply to the maximum extent (such as in the most Regions or with 
the most pieces allowed, and only as long as needed pieces and 
Resources are Available).
8.4.1 Placing, Moving and Removing Pieces. Unless otherwise 
specified, once spaces involved are selected (8.2.3), Non-players 
as possible: 
•	 Place and move own and target or remove enemy Leaders, then 
Legions, then Citadels or Forts, then Allied Tribes in Cities or 
at Remi, then other Allied Tribes, then Hidden before Revealed 
before Scouted enemy Warbands or Auxilia; take Losses on or 
remove own pieces in the reverse order. 
•	 Within that, if Belgae or Arverni, target Romans, then Aedui, then 
each other, then Germans; if Roman or Aedui, target Arverni, then 
Belgae, then Germans, then each other.
•	 As they are able, move their own pieces to end the move with at 
least four of their own Warbands or Auxilia in the same Region 
as their Leader. 
•	 Remove pieces to be replaced even if no pieces are Available to 
replace them. 
•	 Never voluntarily remove own pieces (1.4.1).
NOTE: See also Placing Leaders, 8.3.2 above.
8.4.2 Transfer, Agreement, Harassment. As specified on their 
flowcharts:
•	 Non-player Belgae and Arverni never voluntarily transfer 
Resources (1.5.2), nor agree to have Regions they Control 
be part of a Supply Line (3.2.1) or used for another Faction’s 
Retreat (3.2.4) or Quarters (6.3). Non-player Aedui and Romans 
sometimes do so, for Romans or Aedui (8.6.6, 8.8.6). 
•	 Non-player Belgae and Arverni Harass Roman March and Seize 
(3.2.2, 3.2.3) wherever they can. Non-player Aedui and Romans 
Harass Vercingetorix March (3.3.2).

8.4.3 Non-Player Retreat. Non-Players Retreat (3.2.4) from enemy 
Battle as follows:
•	 When needed to ensure the survival of their last Defending piece. 
•	 If Roman, when needed to lower the number of forced Loss rolls 
against Legions. 
•	 If defending without a Fort or Citadel and a Retreat itself would 
not remove any defending pieces, when they cannot guarantee 
inflicting at least half the Losses against the Attacker that they 
will suffer (regardless of how many pieces might be removed by 
the Losses). 
Gauls Retreating from Romans leave all Hidden Warbands in place. 
Retreating Non-players join their Leader with the greatest number 
of own pieces possible (in place or adjacent). 
8.4.4 Frost and Player Victory. While a Winter card is showing 
(2.3.8), Non-players take no action that could directly (through that 
Non-player’s actions alone) advance any player Faction above or 
any further beyond its victory threshold (7.2), including via any die 
roll outcome or player agreement. The Non-player instead moves 
on to the next candidate target or priority. 
NOTE: This restriction applies to one player games, even though 
the player does not win before the final Winter (8.9). It does not 
apply to advancing other Non-players.
8.5 Non-Player Belgae Actions
This subsection governs actions by the Belgae Faction 
when a Non-player, as shown on the “Non-Player Bel-
gae” flowchart sheet. 
NOTE: It is not necessary to master the lengthy rules below 
before playing; use the flowcharts and refer here only as needed 
for clarification of the charts’ shorthand. Also, see the Playbook 
for examples and illustrations.
8.5.1 Battle or March under Threat? Non-player Belgae, when 
Eligible, check for threats or Battle opportunities and, if any, either 
Battle against or March away from those threats. If the Belgae have 
Ambiorix or a group of at least four Belgic Warbands in any Region 
where any non-Germanic enemy (Romans, Arverni, or Aedui) has 
an Ally, a Citadel, a Legion, or separately at least four pieces, the 
Belgae may Battle, as follows. 
The Belgae will Battle (maybe with Ambush or Enlist, or after 
Rampage, see below) only in Regions where they will inflict more 
Losses on the enemy (3.3.4) than they will suffer, and no Loss on 
Ambiorix, presuming all Defender Loss rolls result in Defender 
removals (the best possible case for the Belgic Attack), and taking 
into account any Special Ability such as Ambush, and so on:
•	 First, check whether Ambiorix meets the initial Battle-or-March 
condition above (he is with a non-German enemy that has at 
least four pieces, an Ally, Citadel, or a Legion). If he does but 
nevertheless will not Battle (because he could not guarantee 
enough enemy Losses, would suffer a Loss himself, or is 
outnumbered—see below), the Belgae do not Battle at all, but 
instead March per below.
•	 Next, check whether the first Battle Region will result in Ambush 
and, if not, whether Rampage will precede Battle, or whether 
instead any Battles will include Enlist. (See the relevant sections 
below.)
•	 Now the Belgae Battle the enemies triggering the Battle condition 
above. Within that, first Ambiorix fights against such an enemy 
that has fewer mobile pieces (Leader, Legions, Auxilia, Warbands) 
than the Belgae do (if it is possible within the Loss requirements 
above).
•	 Finally, the Belgae next Battle non-German enemies where they 
can (where the Belgae are able to inflict more Losses than they will 
suffer). (Set order or targets among equal candidates randomly, 
8.3.4). They select applicable Battle Regions until they run out 
of candidate Regions or of Resources. NOTE: Non-player Belgae 
do not Battle against Germans. 
If no Battle occurred per the above priorities, the Belgae instead 
March as follows:
•	 March all mobile Belgic Forces out of each Region that either 
meets the “Battle or March under Threat” condition above or 
has the Belgic Leader but not the single largest group of Belgic 
Warbands on the map. Keep Marching groups from each origin 
together. March first with the Belgic Leader (and the Belgic 
Warbands with him) then with other groups.
•	 The above Marching groups move into at least one destination 
Region and up to the number of destinations equal to the number 
of origin Regions. They do not enter any of the above Regions 
that other Belgae are departing. Within those restrictions, they 
March so that each Marching group ends within a distance of 
one Region of (same or adjacent to) the most Regions that have 
Belgic pieces possible. Within that objective, they choose Regions 
that have no Belgic Control so as to add the most Belgic Control 
(victory score, 7.2) possible (if any, and otherwise random).
IF NONE: If no Battle or March occurred (including because Bel-
gae have 0 Resources, or because Frost blocked March per 2.3.8), 
proceed to 8.5.2 below to consider whether the Belgae will Pass or 
play the Event.
AMBUSH: If the Belgae are Battling per above, can Ambush in any 
of those Battles, they do so—but only where the enemy’s Retreat out 
of that Region could lower the number of pieces it would remove, 
or Battle could allow a Counterattack to inflict at least one Loss on 
the Belgae (3.3.4). NOTE: A defending Legion or Leader would 
meet the 2nd requirement, because it could survive multiple die roll 
Losses to then inflict one Loss in Counterattack.
•	 If they Ambushed in the 1st Battle per above, they also do so in 
each other Battle possible.
•	 If no such Ambush is possible, the Belgae instead Rampage before 
Battle—or, if that is not possible, Enlist—per below.
RAMPAGE: The Belgae Rampage before the Command if Battle or 
after if Rally or Raid. They do so with whatever Hidden Warbands 
possible and as needed to remove or Retreat enemies— 
•	 First, to force removal of pieces, assuming no Faction grants 
Retreat to their Control (4.5.2).
•	 Then, to add the most Belgic Control value.
•	 Then elsewhere, first to Retreat or Remove as many Romans as 
possible, then Aedui, then Arverni.
•	 However, the Belgae do not Rampage against the last target piece 
in any Battle Region (so that there will always still be a Battle).
•	 If no such Rampage is possible—or if the Command was March—
the Belgae instead Enlist per below.

ENLIST: If there is any already selected Battle Region in which the 
Belgae could Enlist Germanic Warbands to add to enemy Losses and/
or absorb Losses from a possible Counterattack, the Belgae do so 
(absorb Losses with Germanic Warbands before Belgic Warbands). 
If not, the Belgae instead Enlist to add a free Germanic Command 
in (or from) one Region, after executing their Command.
•	 If possible to inflict any Loss on an enemy, they cause the Germans 
to Battle against a player Faction or, if none, another Non-player.
•	 If not possible, they cause a Germanic March with at least two 
Warbands and the most Warbands able as follows. If able, move 
them out of a Belgica or Germania Region and into a Region 
Controlled by a player then Non-player enemy (Romans, Arverni, 
or Aedui). If not, March within a Region in order to Hide or 
remove Scouted markers from at least two Revealed Warbands 
and the most possible.
•	 If not able to so March, and if a German Rally could place a piece, 
they cause a Rally to place an Ally if able then most Warbands 
able.
•	 If not able to so Rally, they cause a German Raid against a player 
(only) who would lose at least one Resource to the Raid.
•	 If none apply, or if the Command was a March into or out of 
Britannia, the Belgae instead add no Special Ability (Command 
only, 2.3.4).
8.5.2 Pass or Event? If the initial Battle-or-March condition above 
is not met—or if no such Battle or March was possible—the Belgae 
might Pass in order to be 1st Eligible on the next card, or might 
play the Event. 
•	 Check the Faction order (2.3.3) on the currently played and next 
showing cards. If the Belgic symbol is first of the four symbols 
on the next upcoming card but not on the currently played card 
(regardless of Faction Eligibility cylinders), roll a die to see if the 
Belgae Pass (2.3.3): on a roll of 1-4, they Pass. NOTE: Thus, they 
do not Pass if 1st on both cards or if Winter is showing.
If the Belgae do not Pass, check whether they have 
the option to execute the Event (because they are 1st 
Eligible, or because the 1st Eligible Faction used a 
Special Ability, 2.3.4). If not, proceed to 8.5.3 below 
to consider whether the Belgae will Rally. If so, check 
whether the Event would be Ineffective, would add a 
Capability during the game’s final year, or is listed as “No Belgae” 
(8.1.1; the Belgae symbol on the card would have gray crossed 
swords, 8.2.1)—if any apply, proceed to 8.5.3 Rally. 
	
NOTE: If the Belgae symbol on the Event card has 
gray laurels, see the Non-player Belgae section of the 
Event Instructions sheet (8.2.1).
•	 If none of the above applies to the Event, the Belgae execute it 
per 8.2. NOTE: Any Non-player Belgae Event Instructions (8.2.1) 
may render the Event Ineffective or “No Belgae”; if so, proceed 
to 8.5.3.
8.5.3 Rally? If the Belgae have neither Battled, Marched, Passed, 
nor executed the Event, they Rally if doing so would place a Belgic 
Ally, a Citadel, or at least three Belgic Warbands total, or if it would 
add to Belgic Control. NOTE: If the Belgae have 0 Resources, a 
normal (not free, 5.4) Rally would not place any pieces.
•	 First, replace a Belgic Ally in a City with a Citadel.
•	 Then, place all Belgic Allies possible.
•	 Finally, place all Belgic Warbands possible, first where they would 
add any Belgic Control.
RAMPAGE OR ENLIST: After Rallying, the Belgae Rampage or 
Enlist per 8.5.1 above.
8.5.4 Raid? If no other Command, Pass, or Event conditions were 
met, the Belgae will either Raid to replenish Resources or March. 
Check the Belgae’s Resources—if fewer than four Resources, roll 
a die and on a roll of 1-4, they attempt to Raid. If Raiding per be-
low would gain the Belgae at least two Resources total, they Raid 
wherever they can, in the following order.
•	 First, Raid to take Resources from players; within that, Romans 
then Aedui then others.
•	 Then Raid in non-Devastated Regions without taking Resources 
from any Faction (do not take Non-players’ Resources).
IF NONE: If the Belgae are to Raid but cannot gain enough Re-
sources per above, they Pass.
RAMPAGE OR ENLIST: After Raiding, the Belgae Rampage or 
Enlist per 8.5.1 above.
8.5.5 March to add Control? If the Belgae did not Battle, March, 
Rally or play the Event per the above, and they have at least four 
Resources or have fewer Resources but rolled a 5 or 6, they March 
into up to three Regions to claim Control and to join their Leader 
with a larger group of Warbands. 
•	 First, March Warbands to add Control to one Region—a Belgica 
Region if possible; within that, where the movement of the fewest 
Warbands is needed to do so.
•	 If the above destination is in Belgica, move in with the most 
Warbands able, but leaving one Belgic Warband behind per origin 
Region and enough not to remove any Belgic Control; if not in 
Belgica, move in the fewest Warbands to take Belgic Control.
•	 Then, March into a 2nd Region per the above priorities, if able.
•	 Finally, March the Belgic Leader alone into one of the destination 
Regions above if needed to join him with the largest number of 
Belgic pieces able, or alone to another Region if needed to end the 
Command with a group of at least four Belgic Warbands. NOTE: 
The Leader’s move may result in the removal of Belgic Control 
from a Region.
IF NONE: If the Belgae cannot so March (for example, during Frost, 
2.3.8), they instead Raid per 8.5.4 above.
ENLIST: After Marching, the Belgae Enlist per 8.5.1 above. (If they 
Marched into or out of Britannia, they add no Special Ability, 4.1.3.)
8.5.6 Quarters. During Quarters Phase (6.3.2), Non-player Belgae 
first leave Devastated Regions where they have no Ally or Citadel 
for random adjacent Regions that they Control (if they can). They 
then (or thereby) move their Leader and/or one group of Warbands, 
so as to join the Leader with the largest group of Belgic Warbands 
able and, within that, to get or keep the Leader within one Region 
of the most Regions with Belgic Forces able. They leave behind 
at least one Warband and at least the number Warbands needed to 
retain any Belgic Control.

8.6 Non-Player Aedui Actions
This subsection governs actions by the Aedui Faction 
when a Non-player, as shown on the “Non-Player Aedui” 
flowchart sheet. 
8.6.1 Event? Unlike other Non-players, the Aedui first check about 
either Passing to be 1st Eligible on the next card or playing the Event. 
•	 Check the Faction order on the currently played and next showing 
cards. If the Aedui symbol is 1st on the next upcoming card but 
not on the currently played card (regardless of Faction Eligibility 
cylinders), roll a die: on a roll of 1-4, the Aedui Pass (2.3.3). 
•	 Otherwise, check if the Aedui have the option to play the Event 
(because they are 1st Eligible, or the 1st Eligible Faction used 
a Special Ability, 2.3.4); if not, they proceed to 8.6.2 below to 
consider doing Battle. 
If they do have that option, check whether the Event 
would be Ineffective, would add a Capability during 
the game’s final year, or is listed as “No Aedui” at the 
bottom of the flowchart (8.1.1; the Aedui symbol on 
the card would have swords, 8.2.1)—if so, proceed 
to 8.6.2.
	
NOTE: If the Aedui symbol on that card has laurels, 
see Aedui on the Event Instructions sheet (8.2.1).
•	 If none of the above applies, the Aedui execute the Event per 
8.2. NOTE: Any Non-player Aedui Event Instructions (8.2.1) 
may render the Event Ineffective or “No Aedui”; if so, proceed 
to 8.6.2 Battle.
8.6.2 Battle? If the Aedui do not play the Event, they next check for 
an opportunity to harm key enemy pieces in Battle. If Aedui Battle 
in any Region would be sure to inflict a Loss on an enemy Leader, 
Ally, Citadel, or Legion (accounting for which enemy the Aedui 
would Battle, any Aedui Ambush, a possible enemy Retreat, Aedui 
Resources, and so on), the Aedui Battle.
•	 Battle against other Gauls or Germans; Battle against Romans only 
if the Aedui are at that moment exceeding their victory threshold 
(the Aedui have more Allies plus Citadels than any other Faction, 
7.2).
•	 Battle first to inflict Losses on such enemies’ Leaders, Allies, 
Citadels, or Legions. Then Battle in additional Regions where 
the Aedui are sure to inflict at least one Loss and at least as many 
Losses on the enemy as they will take (again accounting for 
Ambush and so on).
AMBUSH: If the Aedui are Battling per above, they Ambush in 
the first of those Battles in which the enemy’s Retreat out of that 
Region could lower how many pieces it would remove, and/or a 
Counterattack could inflict at least one Loss on the Aedui (3.3.4). 
•	 If no such Ambush is possible, the Aedui instead Trade after Battle 
per 8.6.3 below.
8.6.3 Rally? If the Aedui did not play the Event nor Battle, they 
Rally if they have fewer than five Warbands on the map, or if Ral-
lying (alone, without any Suborn) would place a Citadel, Ally, or at 
least three pieces (Warbands) total. 
•	 First, replace any Allies in Cities with Citadels.
•	 Then, place all Allies possible.
•	 Finally, place all Warbands possible.
IF NONE: If the Aedui have fewer than five Warbands but were 
unable to Rally any pieces, they instead Raid per 8.6.4 below.
TRADE: Then, if either the Aedui just Battled (8.6.2), or Aedui 
Resources are at that moment below 10, or if Aedui plus Roman 
Resources together add up to less than 15, the Aedui might Trade. 
They Trade only if either the Aedui are currently acting as the 2nd 
Eligible Faction (2.3.4) or if Trading would earn the Aedui more 
than two Resources, accounting for which other Factions agree to 
a Supply Line (4.4.1); players must now say whether they agree or 
not (Non-player Romans always agree, 8.8.6). If the Aedui Trade, 
they do so for all the Resources they can obtain.
•	 If no such Trade is possible, the Aedui instead Suborn per below 
or—if the Command was a Battle or included March into or out 
of Britannia—they add no Special Ability.
SUBORN: In one Suborn Region, or in each of two Suborn Regions 
if the unshaded Capability Convictolitavis is in effect, the Aedui:
•	 Place an Aedui Ally, if possible.
•	 If not able to do so, instead remove an enemy’s Ally—first, from 
the Faction that currently has the most Allies plus Citadels total 
(and therefore is most hindering Aedui victory); within that 
priority, remove a Non-player Roman’s Allies only when no other 
enemy Ally can be removed.
•	 Once no more Allies can be affected, continue by placing all Aedui 
Warbands able; then by removing most Arverni, then Belgae, then 
Germanic Warbands able; finally, by removing Auxilia.
•	 If none of the above is possible, add no Special Ability (executing 
a Command only).
8.6.4 Raid? If Rallying would not be able to place the required 
pieces, check Aedui Resources. If they have fewer than four Re-
sources and roll 1-4 on a die, they attempt to Raid. Otherwise, 
they will attempt to March per 8.6.5 below. If attempting to Raid, 
they carry through only if doing so would gain them at least two 
Resources total (otherwise Pass per below). They Raid wherever 
they can, in the following order.
•	 First, Raid to take Resources from any player Factions currently at 
0 or better victory margin (7.3), then from any other non-Roman 
enemies, then in non-Devastated Regions from no Faction (only; 
do not take Resources from Romans unless player at 0+ victory).
IF NONE: If the Aedui have fewer than four Resources and rolled a 
1 through 4 but cannot gain enough Resources per above, they Pass.
8.6.5 March? If the Aedui did not Battle, Rally, Raid, nor play the 
Event, have at least four Resources, or have fewer Resources but 
rolled a 5 or 6, they March to spread their Suborning emissaries 
into enemy territory and perhaps to claim Control of a new Region.
•	 Move Warbands to achieve the following only as possible without 
removing last Aedui Warband or Aedui Control from any Region.

•	 First, they move out of just one Region to add one Hidden Aedui 
to each of up to three adjacent Regions that has no Hidden Aedui 
Warband at the moment. Select as the first destinations, Regions 
with Allies or Citadels of the enemy Factions that currently have 
the most Allies or Citadels total.
•	 Then, if possible, they move Warbands to add Aedui Control to 
one Region (possibly in addition to Control just added, or to add 
Control to a destination above). They do so by moving fewest 
Warbands possible.
IF NONE: If the Aedui cannot so March (for example, because of 
Frost, 2.3.8), they instead Raid per 8.6.4 above.
TRADE OR SUBORN: After Marching, the Aedui Trade or Suborn 
per 8.6.3 above (unless the March moved into or out of Britannia, 
4.1.3).
8.6.6 Resources, Supply Lines, Retreat. Non-player Aedui do not 
voluntarily transfer Resources (1.5.2) to Arverni or Belgae, nor agree 
to Arverni or Belgae movement into Aedui-Controlled Regions in 
Retreat (3.2.4) or Quarters (6.3). However, the Non-player Aedui 
will transfer 10 Resources to the Romans at each instant that Ro-
man Resources drop below two while the Aedui have more than 20 
Resources; will allow Roman Retreat or Quarters into Aedui Control, 
and will agree to a Supply Line (3.2.1) in Aedui-Controlled Regions 
during Roman actions if any of the below apply.
•	 The Roman is a Non-player.
•	 The Roman is a player and has a victory score 
(Subdued+Dispersed+Allies, 7.2) of less than 10.
•	 The Roman is a player and has a victory score of 10, 11, or 12, 
but only on a die roll of 1-4.
If Non-player Aedui failed to agree to a Roman Supply Line because 
the above roll was a 5 or 6, the Roman player may rechoose the 
current action (Recruit, 3.2.1; Build, 4.2.1; or Quarters relocation, 
6.3.3), if desired.
NOTE: Non-player Aedui do not so transfer Resources to Roman 
players—nor agree to a Roman Supply Line/Retreat/Quarters—
while the Roman score is above 12. They never Harass Roman 
March or Seize; they Retreat the same as other Non-players 
(see 8.4.2-.3).
8.6.7 Quarters. During the Quarters Phase (6.3.2), Non-player 
Aedui move only to leave Devastated Regions where they have no 
Ally or Citadel, if they can. 
8.6.8 Diviciacus. While the unshaded Capability Diviciacus is in 
effect, the Non-player Aedui agree to have Aedui Warbands act as 
Auxilia during Roman Command or defense only while the Roman 
victory score (Subdued+Dispersed+Allies, 7.2) is 12 or less and 
never where Romans are Battling or Scouting against Aedui. Dur-
ing their own Commands, Non-player Aedui use Auxilia as Aedui 
Warbands to the maximum degree that Romans agree (including 
removing Auxilia instead of Warbands), except that they place 
Auxilia by Rally only if the Roman is a Non-player and no Aedui 
Warbands are Available.
8.7 Non-Player Arverni Actions
This subsection governs actions by the Arverni Faction 
when a Non-player, as shown on the “Non-Player 
Arverni” flowchart sheet. 
8.7.1 Battle or March under Threat? Non-player Arverni, when 
Eligible, check for threats calling for either fight or flight, especially 
involving Vercingetorix. If the Arverni have Vercingetorix or a group 
of at least ten Arverni Warbands in any Region where the Romans or 
Aedui have an Ally, a Citadel, a Legion, or separately at least four 
pieces, the Arverni Battle (maybe with Ambush or after Devastate 
or Entreat, see below).
The Arverni do so only in Regions where they will force at least one 
Loss (roll or removal) on a Legion and/or will inflict more Losses 
on the enemy (3.3.4) than they will suffer—and only if no Loss on 
Vercingetorix is possible, presuming all Defender Loss rolls result 
in Defender removals (the best possible case for the Arverni Attack), 
and taking into account any Special Ability, Capability, and so on:
•	 First, check whether Vercingetorix meets the initial Battle-or-
March condition above (he is with Romans or Aedui who have 
a Citadel, Ally, Legion, or at least four pieces). If he does but 
nevertheless will not Battle (because he could not guarantee 
enough enemy Losses, would suffer a Loss himself, or does not 
have enough Forces against Caesar—see below), the Arverni do 
not Battle at all, but instead March per below.
•	 For all Battle Regions, pay Resources as soon as selected, so that 
any Devastate or Entreat will occur after Battles are paid.
•	 Next, check whether the first Battle Region will result in Ambush 
and, if not, whether Devastate or Entreat will precede resolution 
of any Battles. (See those sections below.)
•	 Now the Arverni Battle the enemies triggering the Battle 
condition above. Within that, first Vercingetorix fights Romans. 
If Vercingetorix is with Caesar, he Battles only if the Arverni 
have more than twice as many mobile pieces (Warbands plus 
Vercingetorix) in the Region as do the Romans (Legions plus 
Auxilia plus Caesar) there.
•	 Finally, the Arverni next Battle against Romans or Aedui or player 
Belgae (only) in spaces that did not trigger the Battle Command 
above (and where the Arverni also meet the overall Loss restriction 
above). NOTE: Non-player Arverni do not Battle against Non-
player Belgae or Germans.
If no Battle occurred per the above priorities, the Arverni instead 
March (if with Vercingetorix, within Harassment restriction below) 
thus:
•	 For all March origins, pay Resources as soon as selected, so that 
any Devastate or Entreat will occur after Marches are paid.
•	 First, Vercingetorix and all of his Warbands March out of his 
current Region into another Region, to join the most Arverni pieces 
able (resolving movement after any Special Ability, if possible, 
see below).
•	 Then, move all other Warbands possible to get them closer to 
Vercingetorix (counting by adjacent Regions), but leave one 
Arverni Warband behind in each origin Region.

VERCINGETORIX MARCH AND HARASSMENT: Arverni with 
Vercingetorix March into a 2nd Region (3.3.2) as needed to fulfill 
March priorities, by routes that will inflict the fewest possible Ha-
rassment Losses on them (3.2.4, including because a player Faction 
agrees that it will not Harass that March, 1.5.2), and only to Regions 
that they can reach suffering no more than three Losses that March 
and none on Vercingetorix.
IF NONE: If no Battle or March occurred, proceed to 8.7.2 below 
to consider the Event.
AMBUSH: If the Arverni are Battling per above and canAmbush in 
the first of those Battles, they do so—but only if the lack of Ambush 
would allow the enemy’s Retreat out of that Region to reduce its 
pieces removed, or would allow a Counterattack to inflict at least one 
Loss on the Arverni (3.3.4). NOTE: A defending Legion or Leader 
would meet the 2nd requirement, because it could survive multiple 
die roll Losses to then inflict one Loss in Counterattack.
•	 If they Ambushed in the 1st Battle per above, they also do so in 
each other Battle possible.
•	 If no such Ambush is possible, the Arverni instead Devastate 
before Battle—or, if not possible, Entreat before Battle—per 
DEVASTATE: The Arverni, if able, Devastate immediately before 
they move (after paying for the Command) during a March away 
from a threat per above. If able to Devastate only after they move, 
they do that instead. They Devastate before a Battle Command, or 
after other March, Rally, or Raid. 
•	 They Devastate wherever they can that will force removal of a 
Legion or two Auxilia or of at least one enemy piece and as many 
Roman plus Aedui pieces combined as it will Arverni pieces from 
the Region.
•	 If no such Devastate is possible, the Arverni instead Entreat per 
NOTE: Executing Devastate (or Entreat, below) immediately 
before Vercingetorix’s March away can save paying a 2nd Re-
source for selecting a now Devastated Region as March origin 
(3.3.2, 4.3.2), and ensures that Arverni with just one Resource 
spend it on the March rather than on any Entreat.
ENTREAT: As with Devastate, the Arverni Entreat immediately 
before moving (after paying for the Command) during a March away 
from a threat, if they can; if they can Entreat only after Moving, they 
do that. As with Devastate, they Entreat before a Battle Command, 
or after Rally, Raid, or other March.
•	 They Entreat first to replace (not just remove) any Aedui, then 
Belgic, then Germanic Allies possible with Arverni Allies.
•	 Then, they replace Auxilia where possible, then Aedui Warbands 
with Arverni Warbands.
•	 Then, (once no Arverni Warbands are Available) they remove 
Auxilia then Aedui Warbands. Finally. they remove (Subdue) 
Allies of player Factions (in the unlikely case that they had no 
Arverni Allies Available to replace them).
•	 If no such Entreat is possible (or if the Arverni Marched into or 
out of Britannia, 4.1.3), they add no Special Ability.
NOTE: In the rare case that Entreat prevents Battle by removing 
a lone target piece, instead March and Entreat per above.
8.7.2 Event? If the Battle-or-March condition above is not met—or 
if no such Battle or March was possible—the Arverni might play 
the Event. 
•	 If the Arverni have no option to play the Event (because they are 
2nd Eligible, and the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event or a 
Command only, 2.3.4), proceed to 8.7.3 below to consider whether 
the Arverni will Rally. 
If they do have that option, check whether the Event 
would be Ineffective, would add a Capability during 
the game’s final year, or is listed as “No Arverni” 
(8.1.1; the Arverni symbol on the card has swords, 
8.2.1)—if any apply, proceed to 8.7.3 Rally. 
If none of the above applies, check whether the Event 
is listed as “Auto 1-4” (the Arverni symbol on the card 
would have a Carnyx battle trumpet, 8.2.1). If not, 
roll a die. If so, or if the die roll is a 1-4, the Arverni 
execute the Event per 8.2. If the die roll was a 5 or 6, 
instead proceed to 8.7.3.
NOTE: If the Arverni symbol on that card has laurels, 
see Arverni on the Event Instructions sheet (8.2.1). 
Also, any Non-player Arverni Event Instructions may 
render the Event Ineffective or “No Arverni”; if so, 
proceed to 8.7.3. 
8.7.3 Rally? If the Arverni did not Battle, March, nor play the Event, 
they Rally if they have fewer than nine Warbands on the map, or 
if Rallying (alone, without any Entreat) would place at least two 
Citadels and/or Allies total, or at least six pieces. 
•	 First, replace any Allies in Cities with Citadels.
•	 Then, place all Allies possible.
•	 Finally, place the most Warbands possible.
IF NONE: If the Arverni have fewer than nine Warbands but were 
unable to Rally any pieces, they instead March per 8.7.4.
DEVASTATE OR ENTREAT: After Rallying, the Arverni Devastate 
or Entreat per 8.7.1.
8.7.4 March to Spread? If no other conditions have yet been met, 
the Arverni might March to spread their ability to gain Allies. They 
do so if they have fewer than six Allies and Citadels total on the 
map, or if they have at least six Warbands in Available. If so (and 
it is not Frost, 2.3.8), the Arverni March from the fewest Regions 
they can and still achieve the following (if with Vercingetorix, 
avoiding Harassment per 8.7.1), leaving at least one Warband and 
any Warbands needed to keep any Arverni Control.
•	 First, add one Hidden Arverni to each Region possible that 
currently has no Hidden Arverni (without removing the last from 
any origin).
•	 Then, move the Arverni Leader with all Warbands from his 
Region to take Arverni Control of one Region with Roman or 
Aedui Control. Choose the Region that is within a distance of one 
Region from the most Regions possible that have Arverni pieces. 
This destination may not be Bibracte (the Aedui Home Region).
IF NONE: If the Arverni cannot so March, they instead Raid per 
8.7.5 below.
DEVASTATE OR ENTREAT: After Marching to spread, Arverni 
Devastate or Entreat per 8.7.1.

8.7.5 Raid? If none of the above conditions were yet met, the 
Arverni either Raid to replenish Resources or March to mass their 
army, especially against the Legions. If Arverni have fewer than 
four Resources, roll a die and on a roll of 1-4, they attempt to Raid. 
If Raiding per below would gain them at least two Resources total, 
they Raid wherever they can, in the following order.
•	 First, Raid to take Resources from Romans, then Aedui, then 
Belgae, (whether player or Non-player) then in non-Devastated 
Regions from no Faction.
IF NONE: If the Arverni have fewer than four Resources but cannot 
gain enough Resources per above, they Pass.
DEVASTATE OR ENTREAT: After Raiding, Arverni Devastate or 
Entreat per 8.7.1.
8.7.6 March to Mass? If no other Command or Event conditions 
were met (including if the Arverni have at least four Resources, or 
have fewer Resources but rolled a 5 or 6), the Arverni try to March to 
mass a larger army around their Leader and approach the Romans in 
the field. The Arverni Leader Marches, along with as many Arverni 
Warbands as can reach his destination while achieving the following 
(avoiding Harassment per 8.7.1).
•	 Add Arverni Control to one Region that does not yet have it and 
contains at least one Legion. Select a Region with Caesar only if 
only the Arverni will end the move with more than twice as many 
mobile pieces (Warbands plus Vercingetorix) there as the Romans 
(Legions plus Auxilia plus Caesar).
•	 If the above is not possible, instead move the Arverni Leader and 
all Warbands possible to gather the largest number of Arverni 
pieces possible into one Region that is adjacent to at least one 
Legion. In this case, leave one Arverni Warband behind in each 
origin Region.
IF NONE: If the Arverni cannot so March (for example, because of 
Frost, 2.3.8, or because their Leader is not on the map), they instead 
Raid per 8.7.5 above.
DEVASTATE OR ENTREAT: After Marching to mass, Arverni 
Devastate or Entreat per 8.7.1.
8.7.7 Quarters. During the Quarters Phase (6.3.2), the Non-player 
Arverni first leave Devastated Regions where they have no Ally or 
Citadel for adjacent Regions that they Control, if they can. They 
then (or thereby) move their Leader and/or one group of Warbands, 
so as to join the Leader with the largest group of Arverni Warbands 
able (if any) and, within that, to get or keep the Leader within one 
Region of the most Regions with Arverni Forces able. They leave 
behind at least one Warband and up to those needed to retain any 
Arverni Control.
8.7.8 Vercingetorix’s Elite. If the shaded version of the Vercin-
getorix’s Elite Event is in effect, Non-player Arverni take Battle 
Losses first by rolling against their Warbands that take Losses as 
Legions, if they can.
8.8 Non-Player Roman Actions
This subsection governs actions by the Roman Faction 
when a Non-player, as shown on the “Non-Player Roman” 
flowchart sheet. 
8.8.1 Battle or March under Threat? Eligible Non-player Romans 
check whether they should fight or flee from threats to Caesar or to 
Legions, or should subdue enemy allies. If Caesar or any Legion is 
in a Region where any Gaul (including Aedui) or Germans have an 
Ally, a Citadel, a Leader, or Control, or a Region where an immedi-
ate enemy Attack in Battle or Rampage (with any relevant Special 
Abilities or Capabilities) against the Romans would force a Loss roll 
against a Legion or against Caesar (3.3.4, 4.5.2), the Romans might 
Battle there (maybe with Besiege). They do so only in such Regions 
where that Defender would inflict less than half the Losses (die rolls 
or removals) on the Romans as the Romans would inflict, and no 
Losses at all against Caesar, presuming all Defender Loss rolls result 
in Defender removals (the best possible case for the Roman Attack), 
and taking into account any Special Ability, Capabilities, and so on:
•	 First, check whether Caesar meets the initial Battle-or-March 
condition above (he is with the listed enemy pieces, enemy 
Control, or a potent enough enemy to threaten a Legion Loss or his 
own person). If he does but nevertheless will not Battle (because 
he could not guarantee enough enemy Losses, or would suffer a 
Loss himself), the Romans do not Battle at all, but instead March 
per below.
•	 Next, check whether any Battle Regions will include Besiege at 
the outset of the Battles. (If not, Scout may follow; see the relevant 
sections below.)
•	 The Romans attack enemies who have—within the Regions 
triggering the Battle Command—first, any Leaders; within that, 
the most Warbands; then players first; then, most Allies plus 
Citadels; finally, highest victory margins (7.3).
IF NONE OR IF ENEMY AT VICTORY: If the condition above 
caused the possibility of Battle, but no Battle occurred—or if the 
condition did not apply but an enemy Faction currently has a victory 
margin of 0 or better (7.3) while Caesar is in a Region with at least 
two Legions and at least four Auxilia—the Romans instead March 
(from a maximum of three origin Regions) as follows:
•	 The Romans will March out with their Leader; with as many 
Legions as able; and with at least one Auxilia per origin (if any 
there), plus with the most Auxilia there that are able to leave 
without Roman Control or adding enemy Control (not already 
caused by departure of other Roman pieces).
•	 First, the Romans will March out of one Region that met the 
“Battle or March under Threat” condition above (Caesar or 
a Legion is with an enemy Ally, Citadel, Leader, Control, or 
threatened Loss).
•	 Then, they will March out of a second such Region (if any)—but 
only if that second Region will not be the destination of the Roman 
group departing the first origin Region above (so check per below 
where that group will be going).
•	 Finally, they also will March out of one Region (first with their 
Leader, then with the most Legions not yet Marching) that is free 
of enemy Allies and Citadels.
The above Roman Forces March to two Regions, each of which has 
an enemy Ally or Citadel; however, if just six or fewer Legions are 
on map and it is possible for all on-map Legions and the Roman 

Leader (if on map) to reach a single such destination, they do so 
(March to just one Region). The Romans choose their destination 
enemy Allies or Citadels as follows, within the Harassment restric-
tions noted below. 
•	 First, to Allies or Citadels of enemies with a victory margin of 0 or 
higher (7.3)—if tied, players before Non-players, then randomly.
•	 Then, if the above does not apply, roll a die: on a roll of 1 or 
2, March to Germanic Allies—but only if there are at least two 
Germanic Allies total on the map.
•	 Or—if the roll is a 3 or 4—March to the Allies or Citadels of any 
players before those of other Factions.
•	 If neither of the above applies, including on a roll of 5 or 6, March 
first to Allies or Citadels of whichever enemies have most Allies 
plus Citadels on the map.
•	 Within any of the above priorities, March first to Regions 
where the most damaging possible enemy Battle (including any 
applicable Special Ability or Capability) immediately after that 
March would force the fewest Losses on the Romans; then where 
the most of that enemy’s Allies and Citadels; then so as to end in 
a Region with a Supply Line (3.2.1); then where the route results 
in the least possible Harassment.
•	 If Marching to two Regions, move Forces so as to end with more 
mobile Romans by each type (Leader, Legions, and Auxilia) in 
the first destination Region than in the second destination, to the 
degree possible (such as within any need to use Caesar to enable 
Forces to reach priority destinations per all the above).
ROMAN MARCH AND HARASSMENT: Romans March by routes 
that will inflict the fewest possible Harassment Losses on them 
(3.2.4, including because a player Faction agrees that its Warbands 
will not Harass that March, 1.5.2), and only to Regions that they 
can reach suffering no more than one Loss per group per destination 
Region and 0 on a Legion or piece moving alone. (See also first 
Scout section below.)
IF NONE: If no such Battle or March can occur, proceed instead to 
8.8.4 below to Recruit.
BESIEGE: If the Romans are Battling per above, they Besiege at the 
start of Battle in any Region where they can Besiege and doing so is 
needed to ensure removal of an enemy Ally, and/or of a Citadel that 
might suffer fewer than three Loss rolls in that Battle. 
•	 If the Romans would Besiege in any Battle Region per the above, 
they also do so in each other Battle possible.
•	 If no such Besiege is possible, the Romans instead Scout after 
Battle, per below.
SCOUT OUT HARASSING WARBANDS: If the Romans Marched, 
they Scout as needed and as able to diminish Harassment so as to 
reach March destinations (by Revealing Hidden Warbands in inter-
vening Regions). If so, they continue to Scout with other Auxilia as 
detailed below (instead of Building).
BUILD: If the Romans Marched without Scouting against Harass-
ment (or Seized, 8.8.5), they afterwards Build, spending no more 
Resources once Roman Resources drop below six (and not where 
any Seize occurred). (If the Romans are Recruiting, they Build before 
executing the Recruit, 8.8.4).
•	 First, place all Forts possible, first wherever Arverni, Belgae, or 
Germans have Warbands.
•	 Then, Subdue all Allies possible—first any Allies of Gallic 
Factions that have the highest victory margins (7.3); if tied, the 
Allies of players before others.
•	 Finally, place all Roman Allies possible.
•	 If no Build occurred, instead Scout per below.
SCOUT: If the Romans did not Besiege or Build, they 
Scout if doing so would have any effect (Auxilia would 
move, or any Warbands would be Revealed or have a 
Scouted marker placed on them, 4.2.2). Move Auxilia 
only so as to keep Roman Control, add no enemy Control, and lose 
no Supply Line from any Region that has Roman pieces.
•	 First, move Auxilia to end with at least four Auxilia in Caesar’s 
Region (and keep at least four there for all of this Scout).
•	 Next, move Auxilia to adjacent Regions so as to add guaranteed 
Supply Lines (by removing Arverni, Belgae, player Aedui, or 
Germanic Control) to the most Regions possible that already have 
Roman pieces.
•	 Then, move pieces to join Auxilia not yet with Legions to the 
most Legions that they can reach in equal number by Region 
(and without diminishing the number of Regions with guaranteed 
Supply Lines per the above).
•	 Scout against as many Warbands as able, flipping Hidden 
Warbands to Revealed (and placing markers on them) before 
placing markers on already Revealed Warbands. If it is Frost 
(2.3.8), Scout against Germanic Warbands before any others. 
•	 If no such Scout is possible (or if the Romans Marched into or 
out of Britannia, 4.1.3), the Romans add no Special Ability.
8.8.2 Event? If the initial Battle-or-March condition above is not 
met, the Romans might play the Event. 
•	 If the Romans have no option to play the Event (because they 
are 2nd Eligible, and the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event 
or a Command only, 2.3.4), proceed to 8.8.3 below to consider 
whether the Romans will March. 
•	 If they do have that option, check whether the Event would be 
Ineffective, would add a Capability during the game’s final year, 
or is listed as “No Romans” (8.1.1)—if any apply, proceed to 
8.8.3 March. 
•	 If none of the above applies, the Romans execute the Event 
per 8.2. NOTE: See the Non-player Roman Event Instructions 
(8.2.1)—they may render the Event Ineffective or “No Romans”; 
if so, proceed to 8.8.3.
NOTE: Check the Roman symbol on the 
Event card—gray swords mean that the 
Event is “No Romans”, gray laurels that it 
has special Instructions for Non-player 
Romans (8.2.1).

8.8.3 March? If the Romans checked for the possibility of execut-
ing the Event but did not play it, they may March after all. Check 
the number of Auxilia on the Romans’ Available Forces display—if 
eight or fewer, the Romans March per 8.8.1 above, including Build 
or Scout. 
8.8.4 Recruit? If the Romans have more than eight Auxilia Avail-
able, they Recruit if doing so enables them to place at least two 
Roman Allies or at least six Roman pieces (Allies plus Auxiliaries) 
total, as follows (if possible, Building per 8.8.1 before Recruiting).
•	 First, place all Romans Allies possible, first in Regions that are 
part of a Supply Line (3.2.1, in order to save Resources).
•	 Then, place all Auxilia possible, again first in Regions that are 
part of a Supply Line.
•	 If Recruit would not place enough pieces, instead Seize per below. 
BUILD OR SCOUT: Before Recruiting, the Romans Build per 8.8.1; 
or—if no such Build is possible—Scout per 8.8.1.
8.8.5 Seize? If the Romans executed none of the above Commands 
or an Event, they Seize—but only where no Harassment Losses 
will occur.
•	 First, the Romans Disperse as manyTribes as they can
except the Helvii (in Provincia)—starting with 
those in Regions that have any players’ pieces; 
within that, first in Belgica (then elsewhere).
•	 Then, the Romans Seize without Dispersing only 
so as to add all further Resources possible (without suffering any 
Harassment).
BUILD OR SCOUT: After Seizing, the Romans Build or—if not 
possible—Scout, per 8.8.1.
IF NONE: If the Romans executed no such Seize, other Command, 
or Event, they Pass.
8.8.6 Resources, Supply Lines, Retreat. Non-player Romans do 
not voluntarily transfer Resources (1.5.2). They allow other Fac-
tions’ Retreat, Supply Lines (3.2.1), and Quarters (6.3) in Roman-
Controlled Regions only for Non-player Aedui. (For Non-player 
Roman Retreat from Battle, see 8.4.2.)
8.8.7 Quarters. During the Quarters Phase (6.3.3), the Non-player 
Romans keep one Auxilia at each Fort and Roman Ally. The Ro-
man Leader, all Legions, and all other Auxilia that are able to reach 
Provincia—including by first moving to an adjacent Supply Line 
Region—move to Provincia. The Romans then pay Resources for 
all pieces necessary to avoid removal rolls, starting with those at 
Roman Allies, then those where no Devastation, finally those at 
Devastation last.
8.8.8 Diviciacus. While the unshaded Capability Diviciacus is in 
effect, the Non-player Romans agree to have Auxilia act as Aedui 
Warbands during Aedui Commands only while the Aedui are not 
exceeding their victory threshold (7.2) and never where Aedui are 
Battling or Raiding Romans. During their own Commands, Non-
player Romans use Aedui Warbands as Auxilia to the maximum 
degree that Aedui agree (including removing Aedui instead of 
Auxilia), except that they never place Aedui Warbands by Recruit. 
They do not agree to use of Auxilia during Aedui defense in Battle. 
(They do during Roman defense.)
8.9 1-Player Victory
The player in a 1-player game never wins before the final Winter. 
To succeed, the player must both avoid any Non-player exceeding 
its victory threshold during any Victory Phase (which would end 
the game then, 7.1-7.3) and have the highest victory margin upon 
the final Victory Phase. 
1-Player Easy Option: Player Faction can win by exceeding its 
threshold any Victory Phase.
1-Player Difficult Option: Player Faction loses at any Victory 
Phase in which any Non-player has a higher victory margin.
NON-PLAYER VICTORY: Unless the player wins, the Non-player 
with the highest margin (ties per 7.1) takes Gaul:
•	 If Belgae—Lugdunensis Limit. Rome with difficulty incorporates 
Celtica into its empire, but reconsiders the wisdom of expansion 
into the inhospitable northern wilderness, leaving Belgica free of 
that yoke.
•	 If Aedui—Client State. The Romans remain, but they influence 
Gaul only through their powerful agent, the Aedui Confederation, 
which uses its friendship with the Senate and control of Roman 
trade to rule all rival tribes.
•	 If Arverni—Imperium Rebuff. As the Romans withdraw to lick 
their wounds and sort out their civil affairs, the victorious Arverni 
govern a Gaul that is finally unified under the Celts ...at least for 
a time.
•	 If Romans—Subject Gaul. Rome divides all Gaul into imperial 
Roman provinces, which Romanize and remain so for five 
centuries.
PLAYER VICTORY: If the player does survive to the final Winter 
and has the highest victory margin, subtract the highest Non-player 
margin from the player’s to find the degree of success:
•	 1 or 2—In Gallia Bella! Gaul remains restive for another 
generation, with Rome one of several potent factions, each of 
which retains the arms to defend its particular interests.
•	 3 or More, Player as Roman—Imperator! Caesar and his 
successors cement their dominance as first citizens of Rome, and 
Gallia’s position firmly within the Roman orbit.
•	 3 or More, Player as Gaul—Galli ipsi gubernandi sunt! Out of 
Caesar’s adventure, a single Gallic confederation emerges as the 
strongest and exploits the exhaustion of the others to rule Gaul, 
as the Romans turn inward, for now.

The Great Revolt
52 BC, Spring: The crisis of the Gallic War 
nears. Belgic rebel king Ambiorix has fled 
Roman reprisal. But young Vercingetorix 
has turned all Celtica but the Aedui against 
Caesar. Will this final uprising throw the 
Romans out at last?
This short scenario begins with the Arverni 
already mobilized, and the Belgae just beaten 
back. Caesar is free to concentrate on Vercin-
getorix, while the Aedui play pivot. The 
scenario is well suited for three players, with 
either the Arverni or the Non-player system 
running the Belgae. Rules below adjust the 
historical situation to the number of players. 
Players and Victory
If a player is running only the Belgae, or if 
a single player is running the Romans and 
Aedui, at setup flip the Belgic Successor to 
Ambiorix (representing Ambiorix’s return or 
the advent of a great successor). 
A single player running the Arverni and 
Belgae uses the highest of the two Fac-
tions’ victory margins rather than the lowest 
(1.5.1, 7.3).
Deal 45 Events into nine piles of five Events 
each. Shuffle one Winter card each into the 
3rd, 6th, and 9th piles. Stack the piles, 1st 
pile on top, 9th at the bottom. (Or, if pre-
ferred for a shorter game, deal 30 Events into 
six piles with two Winter cards, one each in 
the 3rd and 6th piles.)
Resources: Belgae 10, Aedui 15, Arverni 
20, Roman 20
Off-Map Legions: (Arverni Victory) 2
Control+Allies: (Belgic Victory) 5
tory) 12
Intrigue
2x Legions on bottom row
SCENARIOS (2.1)
Other Most Allies: (Aedui Victory) 8+
(All Factions Eligible. All on-map Warbands 
and Auxilia start Hidden)
Morini: Belgic Ally
Eburones: Dispersed – Gathering
General
Choose a scenario and any Sudden Frost (2.3.8) and Non-player 
(if fewer than four players, 1.5, 8.0, 8.9) options desired. Prepare 
the deck per the instructions below and per the scenario. Give 
each player a Faction foldout, and assign players their Factions 
(1.5, or see 8.0 Non-player option):
2-player—Romans and Aedui versus Arverni and Belgae.
3-player—Romans versus Aedui versus Arverni and Belgae, or 
Romans and Aedui versus Arverni versus Belgae.
4-player—A Faction each player, Romans, Arverni, Aedui, and 
Belgae.
Place each player’s Available Forces display(s) near them and 
in view of all players (1.4.1). Place the Germanic Forces display 
near the east edge of the map. Put the wooden Forces pieces on 
their displays and all markers in a pile or receptacle within easy 
reach. Keep remaining aid sheets at hand. Set up the game board 
per the scenario, placing Forces and markers onto the board as 
listed. NOTE: Colors in the scenario setups highlight the setup 
of Forces for each Faction.
SETUP (2.1)
Deck Preparation
Separate out the five Winter cards. Shuffle the Event cards and 
randomly deal them into a number of facedown piles of five cards 
each as specified in the scenario. Shuffle one Winter card into 
certain five-card piles, as the scenario specifies. Stack the first 
pile onto the second onto the third, and so on, to form a single 
facedown draw deck in easy view of all players. Set aside any 
remaining Event and Winter cards—they will not be used and 
may not be inspected.

Pictones Region 
Pictones: Arverni Ally
Santones: Arverni Ally
Bituriges Region 
Bituriges <Avaricum>: Aedui Ally (no 
4x Aedui Warbands
Aedui <Bibracte>: Aedui Citadel
6x Aedui Warbands
Sequani Region
Sequani <Vesontio>: Arverni Ally (no 
Helvetii: Arverni Ally
1x Arverni Warband
Arverni <Gergovia>: Arverni Citadel
Cadurci: Arverni Ally
10x Arverni Warbands
6x Auxilia
Helvii: Roman Ally
(BRITANNIA is empty) 
Belgic Successor (or Ambiorix: see 
“Players and Victory” above)
2x Legions
Namnetes: Arverni Ally
Carnutes Region 
Vercingetorix
Carnutes <Cenabum>: Arverni Ally (no 
Aulerci: Arverni Ally 
10x Arverni Warbands
4x Arverni Warbands
Mandubii <Alesia>: Aedui Ally (no 
4x Aedui Warbands
 
Lingones: Roman Ally
8x Legions

The Great Revolt ~ 52 BC Setup

Reconquest of Gaul
53 BC, mid-Winter: Belgic warbands 
have suddenly massed around the legions’ 
dispersed winter garrisons, while defection 
from Roman rule stirs in Celtica. Can Caesar 
and the Aedui get north to beat back Ambi-
orix, before Vercingetorix unifies the Celts 
in resistance? 
This main scenario begins with the Belgae 
having sprung a trap and close to victory. To 
the south, Vercingetorix is on the scene but 
has yet to rally the tribes he needs to chal-
lenge Caesar. While Rome’s position appears 
strong in subdued tribes, the Arverni are 
about to undo that. The Romans must bal-
ance the Belgic emergency with pruning the 
budding Arverni rebellion, while their Aedui 
friends weigh how much and how long to 
help them do so. 
Deal 60 Events into 12 piles of five Events 
each. Shuffle one Winter card each into 
the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th piles. Stack the 
piles, 1st pile on top, 12th at bottom. (Or, if 
preferred for a shorter game, deal 45 Events 
into nine piles with three Winter cards, one 
each in the 3rd, 6th, and 9th piles.) 
See setup illustration on back cover.
Resources: Arverni 10, Belgae 10, Aedui 
15, Roman 20
Off-Map Legions: (Arverni Victory) 4
tory) 14
Control+Allies: (Belgic Victory) 15
 Intrigue 
4x Legions on bottom row
Other Most Allies: (Aedui Victory) 7
(All Factions start Eligible. All on-map 
Warbands and Auxilia start Hidden)
Morini: Belgic Ally
Menapii: Belgic Ally
1x Legion
Ambiorix
Nervii: Belgic Ally
Eburones: Belgic Ally
2x Legions
Atrebates: Belgic Ally
3x Belgic Warbands
Treveri: Belgic Ally
1x Legion
Veneti: Dispersed – Gathering
Carnutes Region 
Carnutes <Cenabum>: Arverni Ally (no 
4x Arverni Warbands
No Control
3x Arverni Warbands
Lingones: Aedui Ally
Bituriges Region 
Bituriges <Avaricum>: Aedui Ally (no 
Aedui <Bibracte>: Aedui Citadel
Vercingetorix
Arverni <Gergovia>: Arverni Ally (no 
6x Arverni Warbands
4x Legions
6x Auxilia
(BRITANNIA, Pictones Region, and Sequani 
Region are empty)

Reconquest of Gaul ~ 53 BC Setup

Pax Gallica?
54 BC, late Summer: For two years, the 
Gauls have remained pacified, allowing Cae-
sar to probe first Germania, then Britannia. 
Three of his legions back on the mainland 
are busy building replacement ships and 
guarding harbors and provisions; they soon 
will need quarters among friendly Belgae 
to cope with a bad harvest. Drought and 
political calm mean little corn is stocked 
for war. While constant intrigues simmer in 
Rome, pre-Civil War machinations against 
Caesar are yet to boil. But chieftains of the 
Eburones, Treveri, Senones, and others are 
plotting—how long can peace in Gaul last? 
This long scenario offers an extended buildup 
and a wider range of diversion from the story 
as it happened to play out historically.
Deal 70 Events into 14 piles of five Events 
each. Shuffle one Winter card each into the 
2nd, 5th, 8th, 11th, and 14th piles. Stack the 
piles, 1st pile on top, 14th at bottom.
1st Winter Special Rules
Winter Track Setup:
•	 Winter marker in Quarters box
•	 3x Legions in Harvest Phase box
•	 Senate marker in Senate box 
•	 Vercingetorix in Spring box
During the 1st Winter Round:
Skip that Victory Phase (the game continues) 
and that Germans Phase. NOTE: The pre-
position of the Winter marker in the Quarters 
box is a reminder.
At the start of that Harvest Phase, the Romans 
place the three Legions from the Winter 
Track into any Belgica Region(s). 
At the start of that Senate Phase, instead of 
shifting the Senate, put its marker at Intrigue 
(not Firm).
Beginning that Spring Phase, the Arverni 
may at any time place Vercingetorix from 
the Spring box into any Region (symbol up).
Resources: Arverni 5, Aedui 5, Belgae 5, 
Roman 8
Off-Map Legions: (Arverni Victory) 7
Control+Allies (Belgic Victory): 9
tory) 20
4x Legions on bottom row
NOTE: During the first year, the Senate is 
not in Uproar, nor Intrigue, nor Adulation 
and does not shift.
Other Most Allies: (Aedui Victory) 4
(All Factions start Eligible. All on-map 
Warbands/Auxilia start Hidden)
BRITANNIA
5x Legions
Menapii: Belgic Ally
Ambiorix
Eburones: Belgic Ally
2x Belgic Warbands
No Control
2x Belgic Warbands
Atrebates: Roman Ally 
Treveri: Belgic Ally
Veneti: Dispersed Tribe
3x Arverni Warbands
2x Aedui Warband
Aedui <Bibracte>: Aedui Ally 
	
(no Citadel)
2x Aedui Warbands
Arverni <Gergovia>: Arverni Ally (no 
(Carnutes Region, Pictones Region, Bituriges 
Region, and Sequani Region are empty)

Pax Gallica? ~ 54 BC Setup

Accompanying—Command required for a 
Special Ability. (4.1.1)
Actions—Commands, Special Abilities, 
Events, and decisions in the Winter Round. 
(1.5.2, 3.0-6.0)
Adjacent—Regions next to each other for 
actions or Events, Britannia being a special 
case. (1.3.4)
Adulation—The bottom status of the Sen-
ate, best for Roman Faction. (6.5)
Aedui Confederation (Aedui)—A Gallic 
Faction. (1.0, 1.5)
Agreement—Negotiation binding during a 
Faction’s action. (1.5.2, 8.4.2)
Allied Tribe (Ally)—Static Forces piece, a 
Tribe mobilized for war. (1.4)
Ambiorix—Named Belgic Leader. (1.4)
Ambush—Gallic and Germanic Special 
Ability to improve prospects in Battle. 
(4.3.3, 4.4.3, 4.5.3, 3.4.4)
Aquitania—Non-playable area. (1.4.2)
Arverni Confederation (Arverni)—A Gal-
lic Faction. (1.0, 1.5)
Attack/Attacker—Step/Faction in Battle 
inflicting Losses on targeted Faction. (3.2.4, 
3.3.4)
“Auto 1-4”—Event that Non-player Arverni 
opt for without a roll. (8.7.2)
Auxilia—Roman mobile Forces piece with 
aspects distinct from Legions and somewhat 
similar to Gallic and Germanic Warbands. 
(1.4)
Available—Forces in holding boxes, wait-
ing to be placed. (1.4.1)
Battle—Command that removes enemy 
pieces. (3.2.4, 3.3.4, 3.4.4)
Belgic Tribes (Belgae)—A Gallic Faction. 
(1.0, 1.5)
Belgica—A cluster of three Regions in 
northern Gaul. (1.3)
Build—Roman Special Ability to place 
Forts or Subdue Tribes. (4.2.1)
Besiege—Roman Special Ability to Subdue 
Citadels. (4.2.2)
Britannia—A Region across the sea from 
Gaul but adjacent to it for most purposes. 
(1.3.4, 3.2.2, 4.2.2, 4.1.3)
Caesar—Named Roman Leader. (1.4)
Capabilities—Lasting Events that help or 
hurt a Faction’s actions. (5.3)
Celtica—A cluster of Regions forming the 
larger part of Gaul. (1.3)
Cisalpina—An area bordering Ubii, Se-
quani, and Provincia that becomes playable 
as a Region only by Event. (1.3, 1.4.2, 3.2.1, 
4.2.1, 4.4.1, 5.1.1)
Citadel—A static Forces piece, a Gallic-
allied City fortified for war. (1.4, 3.3.1)
City—Tribe space that can receive a Citadel. 
(1.4.2)
Command—Core action that a Faction 
takes with its Forces. (3.0)
Control—Possession of more pieces in a 
Region or Region than all other Factions 
combined. (1.6)
Control + Allies—Belgic victory marker. 
(1.9, 7.2)
Control Value—Numeral in a Region show-
ing what Belgic Control there adds to Belgic 
Victory. (1.3.1, 7.2)
Cost—Resources spent on an action. (3.1, 
4.1, 6.3.3)
Cylinder—Token to mark a Faction’s Re-
sources or Eligibility. (1.8, 2.2)
Defend/Defender—Act as target/targeted 
Faction in another Faction’s Battle. (3.2.4, 
3.3.4)
Devastate—Arverni Special Ability to 
starve enemies. (4.3.2)
Devastated (Devastation)—Marker on 
a Region that has been acted upon by the 
Arverni Devastate Special Ability to hinder 
various actions there for the year. (3.2.1, 
3.2.2, 3.3.1, 4.3.2, 6.6)
Dispersed—Marker placed on a Tribe by 
Roman Seize to block Ally placement or 
its Control for Belgic Victory. (1.4.2, 1.7, 
3.2.3, 6.6, 7.2-.3)
Down—Senate shift toward Adulation. 
(6.5.1)
Dual Use—Event with two alternative sets 
of effects. (5.2)
Edge Track—Record of Resources and 
some Victory. (1.8, 1.9)
Eligible—Faction able to execute Event or 
Command: per Faction order, 1st and 2nd 
Eligible. (2.3, 2.3.1)
Enemy—Of a different Faction involved in 
an action such as Battle. (3.2.4)
Enlist— Belgic Special Ability to gain com-
mand of German Forces. (4.5.1)
Entreat—Arverni Special Ability to switch 
Tribal, Warband, or Auxilia allegiance. 
(4.3.1)
Event—Card with Faction order and text a 
Faction may execute. (2.3, 5.0)
Execute—Implement Event or conduct 
Command or Special Ability, for the latter, 
in one or more Regions. (2.3)
Faction—Role: Romans, Arverni, Aedui, 
Belgae, and (Non-player) Germans. (1.5)
Faction Order—Card symbols determining 
Eligibility. (2.3.2)
Fallen—Removed Legions temporarily held 
in a box. (1.4.1, 6.5.2, 6.6, 7.2-.3)
Final—Last Winter card. (2.4.1, 7.3)
Firm—Senate less prone to shifts. (6.5)
Flip—Switch a Warband, Auxilia, or marker 
to its opposite side. (1.4.3)
Forage—The aspect of the Seize action that 
gains Roman Resources. (3.2.3)
Forces—Warbands, Auxilia, Leaders, Le-
gions, Allied Tribes, Citadels, Forts (pieces, 
not markers). (1.4)
Fort—Static Roman Forces piece represent-
ing fortifications in a Region. (1.4, 4.2.1)
Frost—Ban on March Commands during 
last card before Winter. (2.3.8)
Free—Command or Special Ability via 
Event that does not cost Resources or affect 
Eligibility. (3.1.2, 4.1, 5.4)
Friendly—Of the same Faction or another 
Faction that has agreed, such as to use of its 
Control. (1.5.2)
Gallic (Gaul)—Arverni, Aedui, and Belgic 
Factions. (1.0, 1.5)
Gathering—The back of a Dispersed 
marker, still Dispersed but only until the 
next Winter Round. (1.7, 6.6)
Germania—Regions east of Gaul. (1.3)
Germanic Tribes (German)—A 5th Fac-
tion, typically run by the game system. (1.5, 
3.4, 6.2)
Group—Mobile pieces beginning together 
in a Region and moving together. (3.2.2, 
3.3.2, 6.3.3)
Harassment—Losses caused by Hidden 
enemy Warbands during March or Seize. 
(3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.3.2)
Harvest—A Winter phase during which 
Factions receive Resources. (6.4)
Hidden—Warband or Auxilia piece with 
symbol side down, affecting certain actions 
such as Scout, Retreat, Raid, and Ambush. 
(1.4.3, 4.2.2, 3.2.4, 3.3.3, 4.3.3, for example)
KEY TERMS INDEX

GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
Hide—Flip Revealed Warband or Auxilia 
to Hidden. (1.4.3)
Home—Regions where Factions Recruit or 
Rally more easily. (1.3.1, 3.2.1, 3.3.1, 3.4.1)
Ineligible—Faction skipped in Faction 
order. (2.3.1-.2)
Instructions—Non-player Event execution 
guidance. (8.2.1)
Intrigue—The middle status of the Senate, 
neither most nor least favorable to the Ro-
man Faction. (6.5)
Leader—Roman, Arverni, and Belgic mo-
bile Forces pieces with numerous special 
aspects. (1.4; for example 3.2.1, -.2, -.4; 
3.3.1, -.4; 4.1.2)
Legion—Roman mobile Forces piece with 
great hitting power and resilience. (1.4)
Legions—Track for Legions neither on the 
map nor Fallen. (1.4.1, 6.5)
Limited Command—Command in one Re-
gion with no Special Ability. (2.3.5, 8.1.2)
Loss—Automatic or possible die-roll-based 
removal of own piece from Battle or Harass-
ment. (3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, 3.3.2, 3.3.4, 3.4.4)
March—Command to move and hide 
Forces. (3.2.2, 3.3.2)
Mobile—Pieces that can move during 
March, Retreat, Quarters, etc.: Leaders, 
Legions, Auxilia, Warbands. (1.4, 3.2.2, 
3.2.4, 3.3.2, 3.3.4, 6.3)
Next—Upcoming card. (2.2, 2.3.7)
No Control—Region not under any Fac-
tion’s Control (uncontrolled). (1.6)
“No [Faction]” Event—Event that that 
Non-player Faction will decline. (8.1.1)
Non-Player—Gallic or Roman Faction run 
by the game. (1.5.1, 8.0)
Off-Map (Legions)—Not in any Region; 
Arverni victory marker. (1.9, 7.2)
Other Most Allies—Aedui victory marker. 
(1.9, 7.2)
Overflow Box—Area to help manage cases 
of overcrowding. (1.3.6)
Pass—Decline to execute an Event or Com-
mand when Eligible. (2.3.3)
Pawn—Token to designate Regions selected 
for actions. (3.1.1)
Phase—Part of a Winter Round. (6.0)
Piece—Warband, Auxilia, Legion, Leader, 
Allied Tribe (Ally), Fort, or Citadel (not 
markers like Dispersed). (1.4)
Place—Put a piece from off the map into a 
Region on the map. (1.4.1, 6.5)
Played—Pile with current card. (2.2)
Provincia—A Roman Home Region in the 
southeast of Gaul. (1.3.1)
Quarters—Winter phase forcing pieces to 
move or Resources to be paid. (6.3)
Raid—Gallic or Germanic Command to 
take Resources. (3.3.3, 3.4.3)
Rally—Gallic or Germanic Command to 
place pieces. (3.3.1, 3.4.1)
Rampage—Belgic Special Ability to 
frighten enemies away. (4.5.2)
Recruit—Roman Command to place pieces. 
(3.2.1)
Region—Map area. (1.3.1)
Remove—Take from map, for most Forces, 
to Available; for Legions, to Fallen or the 
Legions track. (1.4.1)
Replace—Place a piece in another’s stead. 
(1.4.1, 4.3.1 for example)
Resources—Player Factions’ wherewithal 
for Commands. (1.8)
Retreat—Move away from Battle or Ram-
page. (3.2.4, 3.3.4, 4.5.2)
Retreat Region—A Region to which Re-
treat from Battle or Rampage is allowed. 
(3.2.4, 3.3.4, 4.5.2)
Reveal—Flip Hidden Warband or Auxilia 
to Revealed. (1.4.3)
Revealed—Warband or Auxilia symbol up; 
other Forces always. (1.4.3)
Rhenus—River bordering Germania slow-
ing Roman March (1.3.5, 3.2.2)
River Tolls—Added Aedui revenue during 
Harvest. (6.4.3)
Roman Republic (Romans)—A non-Gallic 
player Faction. (1.0, 1.5) 
Round—Series of phases comprising 
Winter. (6.0)
Scout—Roman Special Ability to move 
Auxilia and Reveal Warbands. (4.2.2)
Scouted—Marker and Warband status 
caused by Scout Command. (4.2.2)
Seize—Roman Command to garner Re-
sources, Disperse Tribes. (3.2.3)
Select—Choose an action’s locations or 
targets. (3.1, 4.1, 5.1)
Senate (Roman Senate)—Marker showing 
Rome’s political posture toward Caesar. 
(1.4.1, 6.5)
Sequence of Play—Order of activities for 
either an Event card or Winter. (2.0, 6.0)
Shaded—2nd choice of Dual-Use Event, 
often anti-Roman. (5.2)
Shift—Move Senate up (toward Uproar) or 
down (toward Adulation). (6.5)
Special Ability—Faction-specific action 
accompanying a Command. (4.0)
Spring—Winter Phase at to ready for the 
coming year and next card. (6.6)
Stacking—Limits on pieces that can occupy 
a space. (1.4.2)
Subdue—Remove Ally or Citadel from a 
Tribe circle. (1.3.2, 1.7)
Subdued—Tribe that is neither Allied nor 
Dispersed. (1.7)
Subdued + Dispersed + Allies—Roman 
victory marker. (1.9, 7.2)
Suborn—Aedui Special Ability. (4.4.2)
Successor—Leader that replaces a removed 
named Leader. (1.3, 6.6)
Sudden Frost—Alternative Frost rule op-
tion. (2.3.8)
Supply Line (Supply)—Chain of Regions 
affecting Recruit, Build, Trade, and Quar-
ters. (3.2.1, 4.2.1, 4.4.1, 6.3.3)
Target—Enemy Faction or piece that is the 
object of an action. (3.1, 4.1)
Trade—Aedui Special Ability that garners 
Resources. (4.4.1)
Transfer—Move Resources among Fac-
tions. (1.5.2, 1.8)
Tribe—Named space that can hold an Ally 
disc. (1.3.2, 1.7)
Unshaded—1st choice of Dual-Use Event, 
often pro-Roman. (5.2)
Up—Senate shift toward Uproar. (6.5.1)
Uproar—The top status of the Senate, ad-
verse to the Roman Faction. (6.5)
Vercingetorix—Named Arverni Leader. 
(1.4)
Victory Margin—Calculation of a Faction’s 
closeness to its victory condition. (7.3)
Voluntary Removal—Ability of a Faction 
to remove or replace its own pieces. (1.4.1)
Warband—Gallic and Germanic mobile 
Forces piece. (1.4)
Winter—Cards triggering Rounds that 
include victory checks and several other 
periodic functions. (2.4, 6.0)
Within one Region—In that Region and/or 
adjacent Regions. (4.1.2, etc.)
Year—Event card series leading up to a 
Winter Round. (2.4)