Overview
Daring lumberjacks meet at the river to begin their traditional contest of the fastest log riders. By skillful 
maneuvers they try to beat-out their competitors to get ahead in this running of the river. Sometimes you want 
to move ahead quickly and other times you want to block others in your race to be the fi rst across the fi nish.
Goal
Each player controls small group of lumberjacks and competes with the other players to bring his group across 
the fi nish fi rst. 
Contents
10 lumberjacks on logs
Two fi gures each (male and female) in the colors green, yellow, red, and blue, plus 1 black female and 1 white 
male lumberjack.
45 logs
80 movement cards Lumberjack (green, male) maximum move length
Each lumberjack (male and female) has 1 set of eight cards. 
5 Jokers (beavers) 5 player cards Indicate which lumberjacks the player plays
 
 
6 game boards with a total of 12 river segments (front & back) 
As each game board has two sides, the look of the racecourse can be changed with each game, giving each game 
a new feel. Each new racecourse off ers its own new strategy.
Lumberjack
 number of 
players
maximum 
move 
length 3
fluss_rules_US.indd 1
fluss_rules_US.indd 1
04.10.2008 20:33:53 Uhr
04.10.2008 20:33:53 Uhr

Preparation
Put two game boards together so that there are rapids 
between them. For the fi rst game, we recommend that players 
use the game boards shown. 
Place 1 log on each of the marked spaces on the game boards. 
Depending on the number of players, each player takes a player 
card and the fi gures shown on that card. Each player also takes a Joker.
 
 
With 2 or 3 players, each player has 3 fi gures, each with 8 cards and a Joker, for a 
 
total of 25 cards.
 
 
With 4 or 5 players, each player has 2 fi gures, each with 8 cards and a Joker, for a total 
 
of 17 cards.
All players place their lumberjacks in front of the 3 starting spaces of the river 
and place their player cards before themselves (their play areas). Subsequently, 
each player shuffl es all his cards thoroughly together.
Then, each places his deck face down in his play area and draws 3 cards, placing them 
in his hand.
 
Thus, each player has his own card deck, from which he draws cards during the game. Each player 
 
will always have 3 cards in his hand. 
The players choose a starting player using any method they prefer.
Playing the game
Moving
Beginning with the start player, each player plays one of his 3 hand cards and moves the 
corresponding lumberjack up to the number of spaces shown on the card. Players 
place played cards in a face-up discard pile next to their deck. 
 
When fi rst moving a fi gure on the board, the player must use one of the three starting spaces.
 
A player may choose to move a lumberjack fewer spaces than allowed by the card 
played. The player may even choose not to move the corresponding lumberjack, 
leaving it where it was. The player may move the lumberjack through allowed spaces 
(not the banks or rocks) in any direction (except in the rapids), including up river. 
With the joker, the player may move any of his lumberjacks that he chooses.
 
When a player has already moved one of his lumberjacks to the fi nish of the race, he may use cards 
 
of that lumberjack as jokers to move any of his other lumberjacks. 
Shoving
A player may not move other fi gures directly (that is other players’ lumberjacks 
or logs). However, when moving his lumberjack, a player may shove up to two 
other fi gures in a straight line. 
 
Note: the player may not shove a fi gure onto the bank nor the rocks. Basically, only one 
 
fi gure may be on each space. 
 
If 3 or more fi gures are standing in a row, the player cannot shove them in that direction 
 
(see last page for a detailed example).
 
Rapids lie between the two game boards. Once a fi gure has crossed the rapids, it cannot go 
back through the rapids. No fi gure may be moved or shoved backwards through the rapids. 
This rule also applies to the start spaces.
 
The current
At the end of movement, the player checks to see if any fi gures have ended movement on 
a current space (with arrows). Any fi gure on such a space fl oats (moves) one space in the 
direction of the arrows. When such a fi gure is moved it can shove up to two other fi gures in 
the same direction. The player whose turn it is decides which order the fi gures fl oat.
 If the space it fl oats to is also a current space, it continues to fl oat until it reaches a normal river space or is blocked. 
If there are more than 2 fi gures standing in the direction a fi gure is to fl oat, there is no empty space in that direction, 
or there is no empty space behind the fi gures to be shoved, the fi gure does not fl oat, but remains where it is on a 
current space. If after subsequent turns, such a fi gure can fl oat (the spaces or fi gures blocking it no longer block it), 
it will fl oat as described above. 
If several fi gures are on current spaces at the end of a turn, each fi gure must complete its fl oat before the next begins 
to fl oat (see last page for a detailed fl oat example). 
Draw cards
To end his turn, the player draws cards from his deck to return his hand size to 3 cards. Then, the 
next player in clockwise order takes his turn.
When a player’s deck is exhausted, he shuffl es his discards to create a new deck. 
Game end 
The fi rst player to move all his lumberjacks past the fi nish spaces of the river is 
the winner! 
 
 
A player can only win on his turn, so if a player shoves another player’s last lumberjack over the fi nish, 
 
that player cannot win until his turn. Of course, another player could win before his next turn.
 
Note: the “half” middle space beyond the middle fi nish space is already off the board and not part of 
 
the game.
Game testers (thanks):
Eric Anders, Hanno Balz, Lüder Basdow, Sören Bendig, Andreas Ebert, Christian Frank, Steffi Giese, Thomas 
Glander, Ingrid Hahn, Lutz E. Hahn, Christian Hildenbrand, Henning Kröpke, Fraser Lamont, Gordon Lamont, 
Angelika Ludwig, Jago Matticzk, Maura, Andrea Meyer, Stefan Mibs, Jürgen Münzer, Hedwig Thelen, Martin 
Wehnert and the players from BSW Burgtreff en, Gathering of Friends, Bödefeld and Helmarshausen.
setup for the 
first game
Water spaces 
(river movement spaces) 
Bank or rock 
(cannot move through 
these spaces) 
Current 
(take eff ect at the end of 
a turn; otherwise river 
movement spaces)
Start spaces 
(the fi rst three 
spaces of the river)
Logs 
(put logs here at the beginning 
of the game; otherwise river 
movement spaces)
Rapids 
(may only move 
in the direction of 
the goal through 
these spaces)
Goal Spac es 
(players m ove lumberjacks 
over these spaces to fi nish 
the race)
Setup for 
5 players
Possible fi rst spaces 
at the beginning.
Only in this direction!
Finish: leave the 
game board!
e
s 
ish
sh,
of
of 
FiFininish
sh: leleav
ave th
the
O l i th
thi di
tititi
!
fluss_rules_US.indd 2-3
fluss_rules_US.indd 2-3
04.10.2008 20:33:56 Uhr
04.10.2008 20:33:56 Uhr

Example
The green player green played this card (4). He moves his lumberjack on the right own, since the card shows that fi gure. He may not move it to the right 
as that direction is blocked by two fi gures next to the bank.
He moves it in a zigzag movement to the left along the lower bank. The current it moves through has no eff ect during its movement. It shoves the log 
and yellow lumberjack in straight lines as it moves. These two fi gures may not be shoved further, since the bank blocks them. 
After his movement, the board looks like:
Now 2 fi gures are on current spaces. Both must be moved with the current. Green can decide in which order this occurs. He decides that yellow fl oats 
fi rst. Yellow fl oats along the current completely to the right and stops before the blue fi gure. Now the green lumberjack fl oats up one space shoving the 
log into the current above it. This log now fl oats on the current up to the last space of the current. It cannot fl oat further because the yellow and blue 
fi gures block it. If the space behind blue were empty (no bank), the log would continue and shove both the yellow and blue fi gures one space further. 
Now it looks like this: 
The log fl oated on the current to the right, after yellow fl oated and stopped next to the blue fi gure.
Author: Friedemann Friese 
Graphics & Design: Maura Kalusky ©2008, 2F-Spiele, Bremen ©2008, rio grande games for the english version
ThThThe lololog flflfloaoateted onononon theheh cururrerentnt to ththt e ririr gh
ght aftftftererer yelele lolol w flflflfloaoao teted anand ststopoppeped nenextxtxt to ththt e blblb ueue fifigurure
fluss_rules_US.indd 4
fluss_rules_US.indd 4
04.10.2008 20:34:01 Uhr
04.10.2008 20:34:01 Uhr