For 2 to 6 players aged 10 years and up
Did you know that a giraffe can grow more than 5 meters high, and the 
Yacare Caiman only weighs about 60 kilogrammes. But how long is the polar 
bear’s tail? And where do the saddleback toads actually live?
Players will come across these and many other questions while playing 
FAUNA. But to be honest: You can’t know everything, since the game deals 
with 360 land animals, aquatics and animals that live in the air. For this rea-
son, you will also get points if your answer is a little off the mark. But watch 
out! If you gamble with your guess piece, you can lose it pretty quickly!
The beastly good knowledge game

)
Preparation
Place the game board in the middle of the table. Each player gets 7 guess pieces of 
his colour and places one of them beside space 1 of the victory track running along the 
game board’s border. Place the black evaluation pieces next to the game board. 
Insert the animal cards into the card box. It is advisable to fill up the card box com-
pletely even though you will only need 10 to 15 animals for one game of FAUNA. 
The player who owns the most exotic pet becomes the starting player of the first 
round. He gets the starting player’s lion and the card box.
 
Contents
	
1 	game board
180 	animal cards with 360 animals
	
1 	card box
	42 	guess pieces in the 6 players’ colours
	30 	black evaluation pieces
 
	
1 	starting player’s lion
	
1 	accompanying booklet 
	
	 with information on all the animals 
	
	 in the game
Starting player’s lion
Card box with 
animal cards
Evaluation pieces
World map 
with land and 
marine areas
Scales for weight, 
length and tail 
length
Score table
Victory 
track
Players’ guess 
pieces

*
The animal cards
At the start of the game, players decide if they want to 
play with the simpler animals (green card margin) or with 
the more exotic animals (black card margin). You may 
also mix the two sorts of cards, of course. Put the chosen 
cards into the card box.
The upper half of the card shows the information which 
the players get before placing their guess pieces:
Animal class
Name / Scientific name
Illustration of animal
Number of areas in which the animal can be found in 
natural surroundings
Measures that the players can estimate:
- Weight
- Length (head and body, without tail)
- Total length (with tail)
- Height (standing animal)
- Tail length
This information can be seen when the card is in 
the card box.
The lower half of the card shows the animal’s zoological 
classification and its required measures:
Areas in which the animal can be found 
in natural surroundings
World map for the quick search of the 
corresponding areas
Average values of the required measures
During the placement of the guess pieces, the lower half 
of the card is covered. It will not be shown until the evalu-
ation when a player takes the card out of the card box.
Aim of the game
Each round, players estimate one animal’s natural habitat 
and its measures. In turns, they place their guess pieces 
on the world map or on one of the scales. At the end of a 
round, they get points for right estimations, while wrongly 
placed guess pieces do not bring in any points. At the end, 
the player with the most victory points wins the game.
Animal class
Name
Scientific name
Number of areas and 
required measures
Required 
areas and 
their position
Required 
measures

+
How to play
The play is subdivided into several rounds. One round consists of:
	 I.	 Placing the guess pieces
	 II. 	Evaluation
	III. 	Change of starting player and new round
I. Placing the guess pieces
All players look at the first animal in the card box and consider where to place their 
guess pieces. For this purpose, each player may take the card box in hand. But it is not 
allowed to pull out the card.
The starting player begins, and then the other players follow in a clockwise direction. 
The player whose turn it is has to place one of his guess pieces on the board – either 
on an unoccupied area or on a vacant space of a scale. 
Placing a guess piece in an area
A player may place one of his guess pieces in a land or marine area on the game board 
provided that there is not one of his own pieces or an opponent’s piece on it yet. 
Marine areas are marked by a box round their name.
Attention: They include not only this part of the sea, but also the corresponding is-
lands if these are not especially marked as land areas!
Mississippi, Mexico, 
Central America and Guyana are 
land areas.
The Caribbean is a marine area 
that also comprises all the 
islands located in it.
The red player wants to place another one of 
his guess pieces in an area. There are already 
pieces in the areas Mississippi, Mexico and Rocky 
Mountains. For this reason, the red player has to 
choose another area for his guess piece.

,
Placing a guess piece on a scale
A player may place one of his guess pieces on a 
vacant space of a scale – that is: provided that there 
is no other opponent’s piece or one of his own pieces 
already on it.
Attention: Not all of the scales are relevant for all 
animals. You can see on the upper half of the animal 
card which measures are required. 
When each player has placed one guess piece, again, beginning with the starting 
player, each player may in turns either place another piece or pass his turn. 
Placing other pieces
During his turn, a player places one of his own guess pieces in an unoccupied area or 
on a vacant space of a scale. In the course of a round, a player may also place several 
pieces on the same scale. 
Passing
If a player passes his turn, since he cannot or does not want to place more pieces, the 
placing phase of this round is finished for him. He cannot re-enter the placing phase 
later in this round. 
When all players have passed, the evaluation of this round begins. 
II. Evaluation
Pull the animal card completely out of the card box. Analyse first the areas, and then 
the scales. 
Analysing the areas
As an aid for the evaluation of the areas, you may 
use the black evaluation pieces. Place a black piece 
on each area mentioned in the lower half of the card 
in order to show that these areas are correct. After 
the evaluation, you remove the black pieces from the 
game board. 
For each guess stone that a player has placed in a 
correct area, he gets points. If the animal lives in 16 
or less areas, pieces that were placed adjacent to the 
correct areas also bring in points. Players immediate-
ly move their marker up the victory track accordingly.
Scoring table
Scoring
Areas
Number 
Direct hit Adjacent
 
12 points 
8 points
 
10 points 
5 points
 3–4 
8 points 
4 points
 5–8 
6 points 
2 points
 9–16 
4 points 
1 point
 
17+ 
3 points 
Weight / Lengths
 
Direct hit 
Adjacent
	
7 points 
3 points

-
The number of points depends on the number of areas in which the animal in question 
can be found in natural surroundings. 
Example: If an animal lives in 7 areas, a player gets 6 points for his correctly placed 
guess piece and 2 points for a piece that he has placed in an adjacent area.
Adjacent areas: Two areas are adjacent, if they either have a common frontier, or 
border on each other as land or marine areas.
The land area of the 
Rocky Mountains and the 
Great Plains are adjacent.
The marine area 
Caribbean and the land 
area Guyana are adjacent.
The Grevy’s zebra weighs between 350 and 430 kg. 
For this reason, the space between 200 and 500 
is correct. Red gets 7 points for his piece. Blue and 
green are located on adjacent spaces and also get 3 
points each. The green piece on the space 1 to 2 tons 
does not bring in any points. 
After having evaluated the areas, you continue with the evaluation of the scales.
Analysing the scales
For each guess stone that a player has placed on a correct space of one of the scales, 
he gets points. He receives points for a direct hit as well as for pieces that he has 
placed adjacent to the correct space. Players immediately move their marker up the 
victory track accordingly.
On each scale, a player always gets 7 points for a correctly placed guess piece and 3 
points for having placed a piece on an adjacent space. 

.
Wrongly placed guess pieces
Players recover their guess pieces that they have placed correctly or at least adjacent. 
Wrongly placed guess pieces are placed next to the game board as a stock. Players 
may not get them back until later (see below).
III. Change of starting player and new round
If after the evaluation no player has reached or surpassed the necessary number of 
points in order to win the game, the starting player’s lion is passed to the next player in 
a clockwise direction. 
Each player gets back one of his guess pieces from the stock next to the game board, 
if there is any.
If a player has now less than 3 guess pieces, he may refill his own stock so that he 
has again 3 guess pieces for the following round. 
 
End of the game
The game is over when the first player has reached or surpassed the fixed number of 
points at the end of a round:
In a game of 2 or 3 players: 	
120 points
In a game of 4 or 5 players:	
100 points
In a game of 6 players: 	
80 points
After this last round, the player with the most victory points wins the game.
In the case of a tie, all involved players have won.
Note: The information on the animal 
cards is taken from several sources in 
the internet and from reference books 
about specific zoology. Some sources 
may present different measures. For the 
information on the cards, we have used 
average values of different sources. 

© 2008 HUCH & friends
www.huchandfriends.de
Distributor: 
Hutter Trade GmbH + Co KG
Bgm.-Landmann-Platz 1-5
D-89312 Günzburg
Author: 
Friedemann Friese
Illustration animals: 
Peter Braun
Illustration box: 
Alexander Jung
Artwork and layout: 
Volker A. Maas
Translation: 
Birgit Irgang