Fairytale (Sequel to Fische Fluppen, Frikadellen)
In the original German, the words in brackets all begin with the letter "F”. The alliteration is lost in translation. 
Fabulous: Fearlessly you found the 3 fetishes in the Finnish fjord. With light-footed and (clever) feints you (carry them off) to (prin-
ce) Fieso in France to free the fascinating faerie and (baroness) Fabula. But Fieso is (hostile to) foreigners, what a fiasco! Under (depri-
vation of liberty) you land (bleak) and freezing in a frightful fortress with (sinister corridors). Now you must flee out of Fiesos (trap).
Furunkulus, the monster – a frightening freak – awaits you. So you want to fool Furunkulus and flee into freedom.
Components
1 folded plan
17 floor tiles (function: see back of the rules sheet)
3 stones
2 crystal 4 turning stones right 2 turning stones 180°
2 teleporters
2 blood pools
back: stone
8 monster movement tiles: 
1 starting player tile
5, 7, 7, 8, 8, 10 1 hit 2 hits
25 playing tokens in 7 colors (before playing please attach stickers on these player tokens, the sum of both sides 
on each player token must always be 7).
1 monster building kit (you can built different monsters with these pieces)
Goal of the game
The players try to move their playing tokens through prince Fieso´s fortress, without being eaten by the monster Furukulus. Whoever gets a
certain number of his playing tokens out of the exit wins the game. During the game, the players move one playing token after the other in
turn order. After all playing tokens are moved, the monster will make its movement automatically (triggered by the monster movement tiles),
to eat the playing tokens in sight. So already during movement you must place your playing tokens behind stones to try and hide or to attract
the monster to move it to nearer opponents.
The basic game
Preparations:
Place the plan in the middle of the table. Shuffle the monster movement tiles and place them face down next to the plan.
Every player gets all the playing tokens of one color (6/1, 4/3, 3/4, 2/5). In games with 5 to 7 players everybody gets only 3 playing tokens (6/1,
3/4, 2/5). All playing tokens are placed next to the entrance with the white numbers (colored sides) face up. Every player now has a 1, 4 and 5
(with 2 to 4 players additionally a 3).
Create a monster by joining the appropriate pieces and place it on the corner space next to the exit. Remaining monster pieces are placed
back into the box. The monster looks straight to the letter M at the border of the board.
Remove the teleporters from the game. You only need the two blood pools and all the stones (the backs of the different stones) in the basic
game. 

Place all the stones and the blood pools on the board corresponding to the picture.
The game
The player who looks the most like the monster starts the game. This player takes the starting player tile.
The game is played in two stages. In the first stage all the playing tokens that are eaten by the monster are placed at the entrance and can
come back into the game. In the second stage all playing tokens that are eaten by the monster are permanently removed from the game.
A single game turn is divided into two phases:
1: Movement of the playing tokens
2: Movement of the monster
1. Movement of the tokens
The playing tokens all have one side with white numbers (colored side) and one with black numbers (black side). At the beginning of the
first game turn all white numbers (colored sides) are lying face up. At the end of this game turn all the black numbers (black sides) are
lying face up, because after movement each playing token is turned to the other side. The players in turn order move one of their playing
tokens up to the maximum of spaces equal to the visible number.
For a playing token entering the plan the first space counted is the corner space at the entrance. To leave the fortress the playing tokens
need an additional movement point after the corner space at the exit.
The playing tokens can move on any space vertically or horizontally, they can move any number of movement points up to the maximum of
the visible number – even just staying at the same space (they can move forwards and backwards and can change the direction at any
time). The playing tokens can move through spaces occupied by other playing tokens (occupied spaces still count toward the total number
of spaces moved), but they must end their movement on an empty space.
After movement the playing token is turned to the other side, so you can see easily that it has already moved (the new number is the maxi-
mum movement distance for the next turn). After finishing that movement the next player in turn order moves one of his playing tokens. 
After all playing tokens have been moved (when all are turned over to the appropriate side) the movement of the playing tokens stops.

Important: During the first turn all players only move (any) two playing tokens onto the plan. 
The remaining playing tokens outside the plan are simply turned over to the other side. Beginning with the second turn all 
players move all their playing tokens.
Pushing: The playing tokens can push stones. A stone can only be pushed, if the space behind that stone is empty. You cannot push stones
out of the plan. 
Important: If somebody pushes a stone on the corner space at the entrance or exit, the stone is instantly removed from the game.
Blood pools: With one movement point the playing tokens move onto the blood pool and slide in straight line to the space beyond the blood
pool. If there is a moveable stone on that space it is pushed one space according to the rules. If it is not possible according to the rules or
if the blood pool lies next to the border of the plan, the playing tokens stay on the last space of the blood pool and need another movement
point to slide sideways off the blood pool. Because it is forbidden to end your movement on the same space as another playing token, you
cannot move onto blood pools with your last movement point, if the space behind the blood pool is already occupied by another playing
token.
If you push a stone onto the blood pool, it slides in straight line across the blood. If the space behind the blood pool is empty it stops there,
if it is occupied it remains on the last space of the blood pool.
Important: Playing tokens cannot push other playing tokens.
Important: You can never move through the space of the monster. 
You can find all movement and pushing rules on the back of the rules sheet.
If it is a player´s turn and he has no more moveable playing tokens, because some of them are already out of the exit (or eaten by the mon-
ster), he passes for the rest of the turn.
Examples of movement
The playing token 4 moves 4 spaces and pushes the stone 1 
space. The stone cannot be pushed 2 spaces, because the 
second space is occupied by another playing token. The 
moving playing token can stop its movement earlier or choose 
not to move at all (0 spaces). After movement the playing 
token is flipped and now the 3 is face up.
2 The playing token moves 5 spaces including over two other 
playing tokens (these spaces must be counted, too). It pushes 
the stone 1 space. In this example the playing token cannot move 
2 or 4 spaces because there are other playing tokens 
occupying these spaces.
3 The playing token moves 5 spaces and pushes the stone onto
the blood pool. The stone stops next to the other playing token and
blocks further sliding. The moving playing token cannot move 2
spaces upwards and then straight to the left, because its move-
ment would have ended on an occupied space. In this case it is
not allowed to enter the blood pool, because you are not allowed
to end the movement on the same space as another playing token.

2. Movement of the monster
After the movement of all playing tokens the monster moves. The monster moves automatically with the following rules. 
The topmost monster movement card is placed face up and determinates the distance of the monster movement. Every step of the monster
is divided into:
a) looking
b) moving a space
These two steps are repeated until the monster reaches the given distance (or condition). After the last movement the monster looks a
final time.
The monster always looks in three directions: straight ahead, to the left and to the right. The monster never looks back! (the monster can-
not look diagonally either, because the fortress is designed as a pillared hall). If the monster cannot see a playing token in any direction it
keeps its direction and moves forward one space to look again afterwards.
If the monster sees a playing token in one of the directions, it turns to this token and moves a space to look again afterwards, moves a
step, looks again, etc.
If the monster can see more than one playing token, it moves towards the closest token. If two or more playing tokens have the same
distance, the monster keeps its direction (it is confused and a little bit stupid, too) and moves one space to look again afterwards, etc.
The monster cannot look through stones.
If the monster moves on a space occupied by a playing token, it eats this token. During the first stage of the game the playing token is pla-
ced back in front of the entrance, it keeps it actual moving distance. If necessary afterwards the monster moves further spaces and can
eat more playing tokens.
The monster pushes everything in front of itself (For example playing tokens that hide behind stones, multiple stones, etc.). Only blood
pools are unmovable. Everything pushed onto a blood pool slides – corresponding to the rules for playing tokens above – in a straight line
to the other side.
The monster can push stones and playing tokens out of the board, the stones are removed from the game, the playing tokens are treated
as being eaten.
The monster can walk through walls: If the monster moves out of the plan it keeps it direction and re-enters the board with the same
movement point at the other side of the board on the space with the same letter.
After drawing the monster movement cards "1 hit” and "2 hits” the monster moves as long as necessary to eat 1 or 2 playing tokens (or to
push them out of the board). But it never moves more than 20 spaces.
Exception: The first monster movement card of each game cannot be a 1 or 2 hit card, you keep drawing monster movement cards 
until a card with a number and reshuffle the other cards to form a new draw pile.
Examples of monster movement
The monster movement card "8” is drawn; the monster walks 8 spa-
ces. Before the first step the monster looks for victims. It sees playing
token A (it cannot see B because it never looks backwards), turns to
the left and walks a space nearer to A. Now it sees A and G. A is
nearer to the monster, so it keeps its direction and moves nearer to A.
Now it can see A and C. C is nearer, so the monster changes direc-
tion, slides across the blood and eats C using its third movement
point. It could not see H while sliding on the blood (it cannot stop
moving on blood). Now it can see D and E. Both playing tokens have
the same distance, so the monster maintains its direction and pushes
the stone and F one space. Now it cannot see playing tokens so it
keeps pushing the stone to the edge and F out of the board. F counts
as eaten by the monster. There is still no victim in sight so the mon-
ster pushes the stone out of the board, which is removed from the
game. Now it can see G. The monster turns, moves a space and eats
G. Finally it moves its last space, looks a final time and turns to look at
B. If G was at another space, the monster would have moved through
the wall and re-entered at the other V to move its last space there.

After moving the monster, the next player to the left gets the starting player tile and the game continues with phase 1: Movement of playing
tokens. The starting player begins to move one token.
Game´s 1. stage 
During the first stage all eaten tokens can re-enter the board and are placed next to the entrance.
Game´s 2. stage 
The second stage starts after the second to last monster movement card is drawn and executed. Now all monster movement cards are
reshuffled and are placed face down as the new draw pile. From now on all eaten tokens are removed from the game. Sometimes the win-
ning conditions are fulfilled during the first stage. In that case, there is no second stage.
After again using all but the last card monster movement without fulfilling the winning conditions, the game ends and all playing tokens
inside the fortress count as eaten and killed.
End of Game
As soon as one player moves all but one of his playing tokens out of the exit, he wins the game (with 2 to 4 players you need 3 playing
tokens, with 5 to 7 players only 2 playing tokens). The game also stops if, during the second stage, all playing tokens are eaten and remo-
ved from the game. In this case the winning player is the one, who firstly moved the most playing tokens out of the exit.
Comment for the 2 player game
If a player moves 2 of his tokens out of the exit before his opponent not even gets one out, it can really backfire. The other player can move
2 more playing tokens on the plan after the first player finishes his last movement. Experienced players can use these additional moves to
really annoy the opponent and win the game.
Anmerkung zum 6- und 7-Personen Spiel
With 6 or 7 players the game is much more random. With luck a player can move 2 of his tokens out of the exit during the first stage to win
the game. This leads to a short game.
To play a longer game, change the monster movement card with value "5” into a "3 hits” card.
The game for experienced players
To play the game for experienced players use the front sides of the floor tiles, the blood pools and the teleporters. Place all the floor tiles
and the starting player tile next to the plan. Starting with a random player everybody chooses any one floor tile in turn order and places it
on the game board. The following exceptions are valid:
• nothing can be placed on the 3 spaces next to entrance and exit (the corner spaces and the orthogonally adjacent spaces).
• The floor tiles must be placed exactly on the spaces and cannot overlap.
• It is not allowed to place 2 teleporters directly next to each other. All functions of the floor tiles are explained on the back of the rules,
too.
After placing the last floor tile, the next player in turn order takes the starting player tile and starts the game.
Follow all the rules of the basic game.
The functions of the new floor tiles
Crystal: Functions like a stone except that the monster can look through the crystal and see hiding playing tokens.
Turning stones: Functions like a stone as far as playing tokens are concerned. For the monster: If the monster wants to move on the
space with a turning stone, it will not push the turning stone, but instead turns referring to the turning stone – either to the right or 180° -
and then moves a space. Before moving according to the stone it looks to the left and right and only if it cannot see a playing token is the
function of the turning stones activated.

Teleporter: For playing tokens teleporters are equal to the edge of the board – they cannot move on a space with a teleporter. The mon-
ster can look over teleporters – they are flat. If the monster walks into a teleporter, it teleports with this movement point instantly to the
other (matching) teleporter and looks in the direction of the visible arrow. Before it moves again it will look to the left and right and can
immediately change direction.
Example of monster movement
An "8” is drawn. First of all the monster sees A over the teleporter and
turns. The turning stone to the monster´s right is not activated, because
the monster does not walk into it. It moves one space upwards. It still only
sees A and moves another space. Now it sees A and E, but it keeps its ori-
ginal direction, because of the equal distance of both playing tokens. Now
it moves into the teleporter and teleports to the right side of D (it cannot
see B and C, because it teleports instantly). On the teleporter it sees D, it
turns and eats D using its next movement point. Now the monster cannot
see a player token and tries to move into the space with the turning stone
180°. Instead of pushing the stone it turns 180° and moves with its 5th
movement point into the teleporter and directly on the space next to B,
looking in the direction of C. Now it can see A and C (through the crystal).
Because both playing tokens have the same distance it pushes the crystal
and C on space. It cannot see other playing tokens (it never looks back-
wards), so it pushes the crystal and C for another space. With the final and
8th movement point it pushes both again, looks a final time and turns to E,
because E is nearer than C. The monster stops its movement directly in
front of E.
Additional information
This game exists as an computer game with many levels, too. You must prepare game situations, so that the monster (that has an infinite
moving distance) will eat all enemy tokens and all your own tokens will survive. The game can be downloaded at www.2F-Spiele.de . Every
week one level will be added and you can win great prizes.
Again a game with a lot of people contributing to it, so surely somebody will be forgotten. Thanks to:
Hanno Balz, Sören Bendig, Marc Buggeln, Christoph Breuer, Christward Conrad, Steffie Giese, Thomas Glander, Ingrid Hahn, Lutz E. Hahn,
Maura Kalusky, Tale Jo König, Henning Kröpke, Aaron Liebling, Bob Mathies, Jago Matticzk, Andrea Meyer, Joker, Jürgen Münzer, Jürgen
Neidhardt, Wolfgang Panning, Maren Rache, Harro Rache, Mik Svellov, Ulrich Walter, Antek van Straelen, Lüder Basedow, Tagungshaus
Drübberholz, the gamers of Spielertreffen Helmarshausen, at Bürgerhaus Weserterassen and from Burgtreffen of Brettspielwelt.de…
The artist thanks Kantstraße 107 and especially Maren Rache. And Friedemann for the his patience. And EC for Entertaining Comics.
Translation: Henning Kröpke
Illustrationen und Design
Maura Kalusky
shooting@elvis.com
English rules at: www.brettboard.dk