Rev.-3

You are about to embark upon the first mission of
your career, a patrol on the Klingon Border. The border
is restive because only the Federation agrees where
it is; the Klingons seem to think that the Federation
accidentally included a few trillion cubic parsecs of
Klingon territory in the Border Declaration of 2502.
Never ones to accept defeat, the Klingons have
continued a campaign of harassment, provocation,
and confrontation from that day to this. Klingon ships
dash across the border, harass convoys and colonies,
confront Star Fleet patrols, and otherwise let the
United Federation of Planets know that this is not over.
The Federation-Klingon Border is 7,000 parsecs
(23,000 light-years) long, and you will be patrolling
only one small segement of it. The Klingon D7
battlecruiser Antagonist also patrols this sector, and
the previous Federation Commander beat him repeat-
edly. The captain of that ship is ready to take his re-
venge, and take advantage of a new captain ... you!
NOTES ABOUT THIS E-Book
Federation Commander: First Missions is the in-
troductory manual for the Federation Commander
game system. It is designed to give you a feel for
flying a starship and help you decide if you want to
become a starship captain (by purchasinging the
game Federation Commander: Klingon Border).
This book is limited in scope, including only one
Federation ship and one Klingon ship. Federation
Commander: Klingon Border includes more ships for
these two nations and other ships from other powers.
Federation Commander: Klingon Border includes
rules for tractor beams, transporters, marines, shuttle-
craft, laboratories (to study space monsters), and other
special rules for weapons (such as nuclear missiles)
and maneuvers (evasive maneuvers and high energy
turns) just to mention a few. Federation Commander:
First Missions does not include these rules but will in
some cases refer to them so you will understand the
larger game system and be able to make a better
informed decision.
Items in First Missions which are printed in red
are notes, background, and informative items but not
actual rules. Items in blue are references to rules found
in Federation Commander: Klingon Border (or Romu-
lan Border) which are not used in your First Missions.
These notes are included to help you understand the
game system and to help you make a better informed
decision about whether to purchase the game itself.
For example, we left tractor beams out of this “pre-
view” version, but we didn’t want you to think they
were not included in the full-scale retail package.
CHAPTER 1: Basic Rules
CHAPTER 2: Movement
2A: General Movement Rules
2A1: Baseline Speed
2A2: Hexes
2A3: Movement Procedure
2A4: Facing
2A5: Order of Precedence
2A6: Performing Movement
2B: Energy Cost of Movement
2C: Turning and Turn Modes
2D: Special Maneuvers
2E: Disengagement
CHAPTER 3: Combat
3A: Combat Operations
3B: Firing Arcs
3C: Shields
3D: Damage Allocation
3E: How Ships are Lost
CHAPTER 4: Weapons
4A: Direct-Fire Weapons
4B: Phasers
4C: Photon Torpedoes
4D: Disruptors
CHAPTER 5: Systems
5A: Control Systems
5G: Repairs
5J: Hull and Frame Damage
CHAPTER 6: Terrain
CHAPTER 7: Ships
CHAPTER 8: Scenarios
www.federationcommander.com

(1A) HOW THE GAME IS ORGANIZED
(1A1) RULES
The rules are divided into Chapters based on
subject matter. Chapter 2 is about movement, while
Chapter 3 is about combat and Chapter 4 is about
weapons. Within each chapter, rules are outlined as
in (3D2a) so players can quickly find any rule they
want. The first (number) digit is the chapter, the sec-
ond (letter) is the rule (about some specific weapon
or topic), the third (number) is the “case” (a subdivi-
sion of the rule), and the fourth (lowercase letter) is
the sub-case (the lowest and most specific level).
(1A2) SHIPS
Federation Commander: First Missions includes
two different ships, the Federation heavy cruiser
Constellation and the Klingon D7 battlecruiser Antago-
nist. Each is shown on a Ship card which defines the
abilities and structure of the ship and provides key
data needed during the game. These ship cards are
on page 30 of this book and you should print a few
copies of that page (one for each game). After your
first few games, you might want to play the game us-
ing two or three ships on each side, and each ship in
each game will need its own diagram. The diagrams
are in color but will print well enough in black & white.
(1A3) MAP
The map is printed on page 31, and you will need
at least four (preferably six) copies of this page to
form a “battle area”. You could tape the panels to-
gether into a single sheet or you could leave them
separate so that you can “leapfrog” unused sections
ahead of moving ships in the battle turns into a run-
ning gunfight. (The map panels in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border are mounted on heavy card-
board). The map is printed with hexagons (called
“hexes” in these rules) to regularize the position and
movement of the ships. All ships and other units and
markers must be placed inside a hexagon. All dis-
tances are counted (in hexes) as the shortest path
between the starting and ending hexagons. All hexes
represent an area 10,000 kilometers across.
Note: Federation Commander: Klingon Border
includes equipment for “hexless” combat which many
veteran “wargamers” prefer (particularly in the UK).
This book does not refer to these items since most
new gamers will find hexes easier to work with. If you
wish to use (or are already comfortable with) “hexless”
combat games, see the rules and diagrams starting
on page 32.
(1A4) COUNTERS
Playing pieces in Federation Commander: Klin-
gon Border are full-color die-cut “counters”; for Fed-
eration Commander: First Missions you can print out
the paper counters provided on page 29. (You can
glue them on cardboard so they
don’t move if anybody sneezes.)
Markers (a sub-type of counters) in-
clude shuttlecraft, drones (mis-
siles), energy tokens, and markers
for the point that a ship last maneu-
vered (see the rules on movement
for how those work).
In the upper left is the “class” designation, such
as CA for heavy cruiser. In the lower left is the “unit”
designation number (for example, the first of three
heavy cruisers). In the upper right is the “empire des-
ignator” (F = Federation, K = Klingon).
(1C) FLEET SCALE RULES
Federation Commander: Klingon Border comes
in two scales, Fleet Scale (seen in First Missions) and
Squadron Scale (where ships have twice as many
boxes and pay twice as much for movement). First
Missions is written entirely in Fleet Scale. When you
get Federation Commander: Klingon Border and find
Squadron Scale, just remember that we told you there
is such a thing and that it works a little differently.
(1D) ENERGY ALLOCATION
The concept of Energy Allocation is critical to the
game system, and to starship combat tactics. Almost
everything you do uses power, and your ship only has
so much of it. If you run out of power before the end
of the turn, your ship won’t be able to do much to stop
whatever the enemy does (to you!) during the later
parts of the turn.
(1D1) ENERGY POINTS, ENERGY TOKENS
For purposes of the game, power is defined for
each ship by a number of points. For example, the
Federation heavy cruiser has 19 such points of power
(or Energy Tokens) available each turn. The 16 warp
engine boxes, 2 impulse engine boxes, and 1 reactor
box each produce one point of power. (Batteries may
provide another two points of power saved from pre-
vious turns.) Note that battery boxes are shaded a
darker blue on the ship diagrams to make battery
power easy to find in a hurry.
When in command of a starship, you begin each
turn by checking the Ship card (7A) to see if any of
the power boxes have been disabled. If so, they do
not produce energy until you repair them. Otherwise,
you get one Energy Token for each point of power
(i.e., for each undestroyed power box) that you have.
[For all practical purposes, the terms “Energy Token”
and “point of power” and “point of energy” mean ex-
actly the same thing.] You might have some tokens
left over from previous turns, representing your bat-
teries, but we’ll explain that at the end of the turn.
During the turn, some of your power systems might

be disabled by enemy weapons, but as they already
produced their power at the start of the turn, this has
no effect until the start of the next turn.
(1D2) BEFORE THE TURN...
As the turn begins, you have some decisions to
make and must start spending the Energy Tokens you
have.
First you must set your Baseline Speed. You can
select either: 0, 8, 16, 24, or “stopped” (2C7). This is
the number of hexes of movement you will move dur-
ing the turn. You pay the energy cost for movement
listed on your ship card, for example, one-half point
per hex for the Federation heavy cruiser or the Klin-
gon D7. You can increase your speed later (at a cost)
or reduce it (when you want to), but it is important to
select your starting speed at the start of each turn.
Your speed on any given turn is not dependant on
your previous speed.
As your ship moves during the Turn [see move-
ment rules in Chapter 2], you don’t have to expend
power since you already paid for it. You can increase
your speed by spending more energy tokens; this is
explained in the rules on movement.
Most weapons are given power at the time they
are fired (during the turn). This is explained in the
weapons rules. However, certain weapons take more
than one turn to arm. To arm such weapons (such as
photon torpedoes, which take two turns to arm), you
must spend power before the turn begins to Pre-Load
(4C2) those weapons. For example, it costs two en-
ergy tokens to Pre-Load a photon torpedo. If you buy
a Pre-Load on a given turn, you won’t be able to fire
that weapon on THAT turn, but will be able to fire it on
the next turn IF you provide the remaining energy.
(1D3) DURING THE TURN...
As you go through the eight impulses of the turn,
you can spend Energy Tokens on all kinds of things.
If you want to fire a phaser, just pay one token
(energy point) for a phaser-1 or a phaser-2, or a half-
token (half-point) for a phaser-3. If you want to fire a
disruptor, pay two energy tokens.
Certain advanced rules in Federation Commander
Klingon Border also use power, including Tractor
Beams, Transporters, High Energy Turns, Evasive
Maneuvers, and others.
(1D4) AT THE END OF THE TURN
If you have Energy Tokens remaining at the end
of the turn, count the number of un-disabled (i.e.,
working) Batteries you have. You may keep that many
of the remaining tokens (carrying them over to the
next turn). Any tokens in excess of what you can save
in the batteries are lost and cannot be used.
(1D5) ALTERNATIVES TO ENERGY TOKENS
You can use many different methods to keep track
of your energy. You can, for example, use pennies or
glass beads or paper clips or poker chips or any other
type of token. (Klingon Border provides die-cut tokens
for this.) You can also keep your energy on scratch
paper as a running (and steadily dwindling) total.
Another alternative is provided on each ship dia-
gram, in that there is a column of numbers down the
right side of the diagram. You can use a single token
to record your current energy state by laying the Ship
Diagram on the table and just moving the token up
and down. Another alternative is to use a paper clip
and have it slide up and down the row of numbers on
the right side of the Ship Diagram, or use a Post-It
arrow and keep repositioning it. All ships also have a
fractional power track on the bottom to record any
fractional powers of power. [Note, the ship cards in
Klingon Border are laminated for use with wipe-off
markers, something not practical in a PDF download.]
(1E) SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each battle is fought as a series of turns. A given
battle or scenario (Chapter 8) might have an unlim-
ited number of turns, or might have a specific number
of turns to accomplish a mission.
Events during each turn take place in a specific
order given below. You can skip steps, but you can-
not return to an earlier step.
Each turn consists of the following steps:
(1E1) ENERGY ALLOCATION
See the rules on this subject (1D). In summary,
count the amount of energy your ship has, and obtain
energy tokens for each point. (During the first turn of
a scenario, the ship has additional energy tokens
equal to the number of batteries on the ship, repre-
senting power stored in the batteries.)
Pick and pay for your baseline speed (2B1b) se-
cretly and simultaneously with other players.
Pay for any weapon pre-loading, such as Photon
Torpedoes (4C2).
Pay for any Shield Regeneration (3C7) at the rate
of two energy tokens for each shield box repaired.
(1E2) IMPULSE PROCEDURE
The Turn is divided into eight Impulses. During
each impulse, ships will move up to four times and
may fire weapons. In Klingon Border, they may also
conduct other activities.
Impulse #1
(1E2a) Speed Change Phase: Pay energy to-
kens if you want to increase your speed for this im-
pulse in accordance with the rules on Movement
(2B2); deceleration is paid in each sub-pulse.
(1E2b) Movement Phase: All ships are moved
in accordance with the rules on Movement, the Order
of Precedence (2A5), and their corresponding speed.
Ships may be moving zero, one, two, or three hexes
per Impulse. This step involves four Movement Sub-
Pulses. During each sub-pulse, units will move but
no other activity takes place.
(1E2c) Defensive Fire Phase: This is used in
Klingon Border to defend against seeking weapons.

Since there are no seeking weapons in use during
your First Missions, we can skip this step.
(1E2d) Offensive Direct-Fire Phase: Ships can
fire at each other in accordance with the combat rules
(3A1). Any resulting damage is resolved; see Dam-
age Allocation (3D). All fire is simultaneous so any
weapon destroyed during this Phase can still be fired
during this phase (assuming it was able to fire other-
wise).
During this Phase, each player must resolve all
of the fire of one ship before moving to the next ship.
Also, the player controlling a given ship must engage
his targets one at a time, declaring in each case all of
the weapons being fired at that target before rolling
the die for any of them. He may assign two or more
weapons to fire at a single target, but if that target is
destroyed by one weapon, any others still fire (using
energy and causing nothing).
If a weapon is fired, mark that letter or number on
the “weapons used” track on the Ship Diagram.
(1E2e) Other Functions Phase: This is used in
Klingon Border to operate tractors, transporters, labs,
and other items. Since these are not in use during
your First Missions, we can skip this step.
(1E2f) Launch Phase: This is used in Klingon
Border to launch seeking weapons. Since these are
not in use during your First Missions, we can skip this
step.
Impulse #2: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #3: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #4: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #5: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #6: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #7: Same as Impulse #1.
Impulse #8: Same as Impulse #1.
(1E3) END OF TURN PROCEDURE
(1E3a) Power Phase: At the end of the turn, ships
may transfer any unexpended power to their batter-
ies (up to the limits of the battery capacity); any ex-
cess unused power is lost.
(1E3b) Weapons Records: Erase any marked
letters on the “weapons used” track so those weap-
ons can be used again on the next turn. This proce-
dure is used because each weapon can only be used
once per turn.
(1E3c) Marine Combat Phase: See Federation
Commander: Klingon Border.
(1E3d) Repair Phase: Determine the number of
available repair points, and use them to repair dam-
aged systems as per the rules (5G2). You may also
transfer five boxes (3C3) from any one shield to any
adjacent shield (but this can only replace disabled
boxes, not increase the original strength of the shield).
(1E3e) Undocking: See Federation Commander:
Klingon Border.
(1E4) SIMULTANEOUS DECISION RULE
There are many points in the Sequence of Play
at which a player may take an action (for example,
fire a phaser or change speed). These decisions are
made openly, and players may make a similar deci-
sion based on what other players did.
If any player said he had decided not to take the
relevant action for that point in the Sequence of Play,
and another player decided to take the specified ac-
tion, players who previously declined the option could
reverse their decision and accept it. A player having
announced that he will take the option, however, can-
not reverse that decision.
For example, during the Offensive Fire Step, two
players in a tense battle each wonder if the other will
fire now or wait for a better opportunity. Either player
could announce he is firing, and the other player could
then decide to fire at the same time. Either player
could announce he is not firing, then reverse his de-
cision if his opponent said he was firing. But if both
(all) players announce they are not firing, the Se-
quence of Play (1E) moves on and neither player can
go back to change their mind.
Distinguished Service Cross,
Distinguished Service Medal,
and Meritorious Service Medal
recognize important
achievements which did not
involve command or valor.
Commendation Medal
could be given for any
number of reasons.
First Contact Medal
was given for a successful
first contact with a new
civilization. It was the rarest
medal that Star Fleet
or the Federation awarded.

COMPONENTS LIST
This PDF rulebook which includes a map panel, counters,
and other items. The boxed game includes six mounted
map panels, sixteen full color double-sided laminated
ship cards, dice, reference cards (full color laminated),
counters in two sizes (one inch and half-inch), charts for
the tabletop rules, paperclips, and a wipe-off marker.
CREDITS
Game Design: Stephen V. Cole, PE
Game Development: Steven P. Petrick, Ken Burnside
Production: Leanna M. Cole, Ken Burnside
Chief of Security: Ramses Inspector General: Isis
Interior Art: Dale McKee, Alvin Belflower, Loren Knight
Cover Artist: Mark Evans
Computer Graphics, 1” counters, 3d art: Ted Geibel
Computer Graphics, 1/2” counters, ship diagrams, line
art: Stephen V. Cole
Space Photos: NASA Hubble Telescope.
PLAYTESTING
Battlegroup Alpha (prototype test): Phillip Kensington,
Ralph Angers, Peter Belton, Carl Kreuger,
Anthony Garza.
Battlegroup Beta (prototype test): Robert Kelly, Sally Fox,
Teddy Freize, Lance Heldon, Frederick Santini.
Battle Group Amarillo: Steve Petrick, Ken Burnside, Mike
Sparks.
Battle Laboratory #1 (Colorado): Scott Moellmer, Andy
Vancil, Craig McRae, Dan Hoffacker, Dave
Miller, Ken Howell, Phoenix T’kar, Robert Knoke,
Pat Moellmer, Jennifer Moellmer, Michael
Moellmer, Seth Iniguez.
Wessex Wargames Society: Kelvin Bampfield, Ian Gould,
Mark Rowsell, John Drake, Mike Earwaker.
Battlegroup Murfreesboro: Tony L Thomas, Mark Thomas,
Joe Butler, Ken Thomas, Mike Curtis, Scott
Ritenour, Merl DeWitt, Michael Novean.
Boy Scout Troop 106 (Tennessee): Mark Thomas, B J
Leonard, Chris Pegg, Robbie Hunt, Cody May,
Grant Caldwell, Nick Brewer, Kyle Styer, Joe
Flarety, Rob Wesley, Bryan Stringfield, Killian
Deats, and Andrew Potts.
Battlegroup Hamster: Mark D. Weber, Shannon C.
Weber, Ian B. Weber.
Battlegroup Texas: Mike West, Jeremy West, Jared West.
PUBLISHER’S INFORMATION
FEDERATION COMMANDER: KLINGON BORDER
was created and published by:
AMARILLO DESIGN BUREAU, INC.
P.O. Box 8759
Amarillo, TX 79114
Phone: 806-351-1950
Fax: 806-351-2585
Email (buy games): sales@starfleetgames.com
Email (questions): design@starfleetgames.com
Email (support): support@starfleetgames.com
Web Site: www.starfleetgames.com
All mail correspondence requires a stamped self-ad-
dressed envelope or international reply coupon. Email is
generally more efficient.
DESIGNER’S NOTES
It all began at the Game Manufacturer’s Association
Trade Show in 2002. Retailer after retailer told us “your Star
Fleet Battles game is the greatest space game of all time,
but it is too complicated for the modern market and your
production values are not what the modern customer ex-
pects to find in a first-class game”. They recommended that
we simply republish the earliest and smallest version of Star
Fleet Battles, that being the venerable “pocket edition” of
1979. We felt that their idea for a new faster-playing space
combat game was a good one, but that if we were going to
do it, we should design an entirely new game using cleaner
mechanics to portray the same space battles.
As the design of Federation Commander evolved over
several years, we tried a number of different game engines
and systems (Star Fleet Squadrons, Star Fleet Action, and
others) until finally selecting the one you see here. We
needed to keep the ability to move 20-30 hexes per turn
because maneuver was always the heart of space combat
tactics. Some of the earlier incarnations had a maximum
speed of eight hexes, and ships lacked the speed to do
anything other than head straight for the enemy and fire.
By combining 32 movement pulses with only 8 firing oppor-
tunities, we found the best balance.
Other design elements came up over the years. The
ship diagrams were simplified, done in color and with im-
pressive graphics, and then laminated so that you could
“play it right out of the box” every time without having to find
a photo copier.
Everything had to be clearer, faster, and cleaner. We
eliminated “housekeeping” energy and crew casualties, sim-
plified the damage allocation rules, limited tractors to range
1, and got rid of no end of clutter and gritty rules.
Many of the known rules problems with Star Fleet
Battles, such as retrograde, bricks, starcastling, and
superstack, were eliminated in Federation Commander. The
success of our design was proven when Star Fleet Battles
players began trying to reverse engineer Federation Com-
mander rules into the older game.
COPYRIGHT AND LICENSING
FEDERATION COMMANDER: FIRST MISSIONS and
all contents thereof are copyright © 2006 Amarillo Design
Bureau, Inc. All rights are reserved under the Pan-Ameri-
can, Berne, and International Copyright Conventions.
No material which is based on, for use with, incorpo-
rates elements of, or is derived from Federation Com-
mander, Star Fleet Battles, Federation & Empire, Star
Fleet Missions, Prime Directive, Star Fleet Battle Force,
or any other part of the Star Fleet Universe can be pub-
lished by any party without the advanced written permis-
sion of ADB, Inc. Any such publication would by definition
be a “derivative work” requiring our consent.
The Star Fleet Universe is published under license from
Franz Joseph Designs, authors of the Star Fleet Technical
Manual.
Elements of the Star Fleet Universe are the property
of Paramount Pictures Corporation and are used with their
permission.

(2A) GENERAL MOVEMENT RULES
(2A1) BASELINE SPEED
Starships move by expending power and will al-
ways have a Baseline Speed. Starships can vary their
speed by expending different amounts of power each
turn. The cruisers in First missions can spend either
0, 4, 8, or 12 Energy Tokens during Energy Allocation
to produce a baseline speed of 0, 8, 16, or 24 respec-
tively. Ships can then expend additional energy (half
a point) during each Impulse to increase their speed
by one hex for that Impulse only (2B2). Ships which
have taken combat damage may not be able to move
at their full speed in later turns. See (2C7) for
“stopped”.
(2A2) HEXES
The map is divided into hexagons which are
known to gamers as “hexes”. This has nothing to do
with witchcraft. Each hex is 10,000 km across, and
all speed is expressed in hexes per turn.
(2A3) MOVEMENT PROCEDURE
Units move from hex to hex on the map board
and cannot skip hexes. A unit moves a maximum of
one hex per Movement Sub-Pulse (1E2b) and will
probably not move during every Movement Sub-Pulse.
Units may (within the limits of their Turn Mode and
Speed) move anywhere on the map; movement is
not plotted ahead of time.
(2A3a) Proportional Movement: The way the
movement system works, if one ship is moving at
speed 16, and another at speed 8, the faster ship will
move twice as often as the slower ship. All of the ships
are moving at the same time, but at different rates of
speed. (In some other games, one player moves all
of his ships after which another player moves all of
his. This is not the case here.)
(2A3b) Direction: Hex #27 on the mapsheet is
surrounded by six numbered arrows. These are used
for various functions, such as determining direction.
(2A3c) Forward Movement: Units move in the
direction they are facing [unless moving in Reverse,
see (2C5)]. Units turn to face a new hex before actual
movement, but the ship will always enter the hex it is
facing, except as follows: movement in reverse [(2B1c)
in which case the unit enters the hex opposite the
direction it is facing], and sideslips (2C4).
(2A3d) Maximum Speed: The maximum allow-
able speed in the game is one hex per Movement
Sub-Pulse. This requires a baseline speed of 24 plus
the expenditure of one point per impulse for accel-
eration (2B2a), resulting in 32 hexes moved.
(2A3e) Stacking: Players are permitted to freely
stack counters within a given hex. There is no limit as
to the number of ships and other units that can oc-
cupy a hex. Each counter is still treated independently
for all purposes. Each weapon fired (or moving) into
a hex is directed at ONE (and ONLY one) counter
within that hex. However, see rule (4A3) which limits
the number of ships that can fire out of such a stack
in any given direction.
(2A3f) Momentum: There is no momentum in the
movement seen in Federation Commander, and ships
do not coast. They must use power to maintain the
warp bubbles used. (Coasting is, technically possible,
at a speed of a couple of hundred turns per hex.)
(2A3g) Ramming: There is no provision in Fed-
eration Commander for ramming or colliding with an-
other unit, because the warp fields will simply slide
past each other.
(2A4) FACING
Each unit must always be within a single hex and
must always be “faced” directly towards one of the
six adjacent hexes.
A unit may be faced in any of six directions. These
directions are designated by the letters “A” through
“F.” Note hex #62 on the mapsheet. Arranged around
this hex are six letters “A” through “F.” This is used to
designate direction. Units moving in “direction A”
(which might arbitrarily be called “north”) move in the
direction they would move in IF they were in hex #62
and were facing toward hex #61 (the hex with the “A”
written in it); thus a unit in hex 0608 facing in direction
A faces hex 0607, while a unit in 0207 facing in direc-
tion C faces hex 0308.
The terms “facing” and “heading” are used inter-
changeably in these rules.
Kzinti Battlecruiser Meteor (above)
and Frigate FF256 (below).

(2A5) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE
When two ships move at the same time, the
slower ship moves first. If the speeds are equal, the
unit with a better turn mode category moves last. If
speed and turn mode category is the same, both play-
ers write down their movement for that sub-pulse only
and expose these written orders simultaneously, then
execute them simultaneously.
If two units have the same baseline speed, and
one has accelerated during that impulse, it is faster
(for that impulse) than a unit with the same baseline
speed but slower than a unit with the next higher base-
line speed. If one has decelerated (during that im-
pulse), it is slower (for the remainder of that impulse)
than a unit with the same baseline speed, but faster
than a unit with a lower baseline speed.
(2A6) PERFORMING MOVEMENT
Each unit will move one hex, and only one hex,
during each Movement Sub-Pulse in which movement
is called for by the IMPULSE CHART below:
Baseline
Pulse
Sub-Pulses Moved
Speed
Speed
If a player allocates energy for 16 hexes of move-
ment, his ship will move one hex in each of 16 Move-
ment Sub-Pulses (two in each Impulse, as per the
Chart above, #2 and #4) during that turn. The move-
ment cost of all ships is listed on their Ship Diagram.
If no units are scheduled to move, that Movement
Sub-Pulse can be skipped. (In most Impulses on the
Klingon Border, nobody will move in the first Sub-Pulse
and it can simply be ignored.)
(2B) ENERGY COST OF MOVEMENT
(2B1) BASIC TERMS
(2B1a) Movement Points: Movement is ex-
pressed in movement points (also known as “move-
ment factors” or “hexes of movement”). Movement
points are purchased by expending energy. Each ship
buys movement points at a specified rate, based on
its size and efficiency. For the two ships in First Mis-
sions, movement always costs 1/2 energy point per
hex moved (whether as acceleration or pre-paid base-
line speed).
(2B1b) Baseline Speed: During the Energy Al-
location Phase, the owner of each ship pays for its
Baseline Speed, which could be 0, 8, 16, or 24. Both
ships in First Missions have a movement cost of 1/2
and would pay 8 Energy Tokens for Baseline Speed
16. Note that a ship at “baseline speed zero” or that is
“stopped” (2C7) pays no energy.
It is important to understand the concept of a turn’s
eight Impulses and the four Movement Sub-Pulses of
each Impulse. A ship with a baseline speed of 16 would
move in the second and fourth Sub-Pulse of each
impulse. A ship may select any of the allowed Base-
line Speeds it has the energy to pay for, regardless of
the Baseline Speed it paid for on a previous turn.
(2B1c) Reverse Movement: Ships can move in
reverse, but this costs twice as much as forward move-
ment. A ship that wanted to buy a Baseline Speed of
eight in Reverse would pay for 16 movement points.
The cost of Acceleration is also doubled. The cost of
deceleration and braking energy is not doubled when
moving in reverse.
(2B2) CHANGING SPEEDS
This section is rather complicated and players can
ignore it for the first game or two and just run their
ships at the same baseline speed for the entire turn.
(2B2a) Acceleration: Ships can increase their
speed during any impulse by paying extra Energy
Tokens. At the start of every Impulse, each ship has
the option to pay Energy Tokens equal to one move-
ment point to increase its speed for that one Impulse
by one movement point. It could do this during any or
all impulses. A ship cannot buy more than one extra
movement point in any given Impulse. See (2C7a).
Example: A ship with a Baseline Speed of 16 (mov-
ing in two of the four Sub-Pulses of each Impulse) might
in a given Impulse pay extra energy to move in a third
Sub-Pulse (which would be sub-pulse #3 since a ship at
speed 16 moves in sub-pulses #2 and #4).
A ship may buy an extra movement point during
a given impulse and later pay energy to cancel other
movement points (or even that one!).
Example: A ship with a Baseline Speed of 16 (mov-
ing in two of the four Sub-Pulses of each Impulse) and a
move cost of 1/2, pays a half energy point during the third
Impulse of the turn to speed up to “16+1” which would
move in the same sub-pulses that speed 24 moves (i.e., the
2nd, 3rd, and 4th sub-pulse). It could then, during any of
those sub-pulses, pay another half Energy Point to cancel
one of those sub-pulses (even the 3rd sub-pulse, the one it
just bought!).
(2B2b) Deceleration: A ship can slow down by
using an Energy Token to buy a “deceleration point”
(equal in cost to a movement point). A ship could can-
cel some, all, or none of the movement points of that
Impulse (assuming that it had the energy tokens to
pay for it). Unlike movement increases, which are paid
only at the start of an impulse, decelerations are paid
at the instant in a given sub-pulse when the ship would
move. They do not change the ship to a different
movement “level”; they cancel a specific sub-pulse.
Example: A Federation cruiser with a movement cost
of 1/2, has paid 12 Energy Tokens for a baseline speed of
24. During Impulse #4 (when it would normally move in
the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sub-pulses), the ship wants to slow
down in order to create a firing opportunity at the down
shield of a Klingon cruiser. It moves during the 2nd sub-
pulse, but when it is time to move for the 3rd and 4th sub-

pulses, the ship pays 1/2 Energy Token (during each of
those sub-pulses) to cancel the movement, maintaining
his firing position on the Klingon ship.
Cancelled movement points DO count against the
turn mode requirement (2C2) but NOT the sideslip
requirement (2C4), so a ship could use deceleration
to make a sharper or tighter turn (even if it took just
as many Movement Sub-Pulses).
Example: A Federation cruiser with a movement cost
of 1/2 has paid 12 Energy Tokens for a baseline speed of
24. During Impulse #4 (when it would normally move in
the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sub-pulses), the ship wants to make a
very sharp turn without getting any closer to the Klingon
ship in front of it (and getting its down #1 shield away
from that battlecruiser before the next Offensive Fire
Phase). The ship pays 1/2 Energy Point during each of the
three movement sub-pulses, remaining in the same hex for
the entire impulse. During the 3rd Sub-Pulse, the cruiser
has completed its Turn Mode of 5, and changes direction
by 60°, bringing an undamaged shield to face the D7.
(2C) TURNING AND TURN MODES
Each unit in the game must maneuver (i.e., turn)
within the limits of its “turn mode”. This “turn mode” is
the factor that defines how quickly a given unit can
turn (i.e., change facing).
Players will have to bear with one of the limita-
tions of the English language in the overuse of the
word “turn.” It can be your turn to move on Turn #3,
you may choose to make a left turn or perhaps a high
energy turn, and if you are not careful, things may
take a turn for the worse.
(2C1) TURNING
The actual act of turning the unit by 60° is done
at the start of a given Movement Sub-Pulse (immedi-
ately before moving into the next hex). A unit’s turn
mode regulates how often a 60° turn can be made.
(2C2) TURN MODES
A unit’s turn mode is the minimum number of
hexes which the unit must move straight ahead, with
the same facing, before it can turn 60° (one hex side)
right or left. After each 60° turn, the unit must again
move the stated number of hexes straight ahead be-
fore it can turn again. Turn modes increase with speed,
and less maneuverable units have higher turn modes.
Special markers are provided that say
“TURN POINT” and can be used by play-
ers to mark the point that their ship turned,
helping them remember the turn and de-
termine when the ship can turn again.
(2C2a) Category: A unit may appear to have two
different types of turn modes. Each unit is assigned a
Turn Mode Category, also known as a Turn Mode
Rating; for example the Federation CA has a Turn
Mode Category of D. A ship with a Turn Mode Cat-
egory of D would have a turn mode (in the proper
sense, the required number of hexes moved) of 4 at
a baseline speed of 16.
(2C2b) Assignment: Each ship is assigned a turn
mode category on its Ship Diagram, and is provided
with a Turn Mode for each baseline speed which ap-
plies to all turns while going that speed. All turn modes
apply at their baseline speed regardless of energy
spent to increase or decrease speed (2B2).
(2C3) RESTRICTIONS OF TURN MODES
The hex entered on the impulse the turn was
made counts as the first hex of straight-line move-
ment for future turn mode purposes.
(2C3a) Carry over: Hexes moved since the last
direction change carry over from game turn to game
turn, and to turn you must satisfy your turn mode at
your current speed. E.g., a Federation CA at baseline
speed 8 on Turn #1 has a turn mode of two. If its last
two hexes of movement were in Direction B, it counts
those two hexes on Turn #2 when its Baseline speed
of 16 requires a Turn mode of 4 (so it must move two
more hexes in direction B to turn).
(2C3b) Starting From Speed Zero or Stopped:
A unit which was “stopped” on the previous turn and
is moving on this turn cannot turn before moving out
of the hex because its turn and sideslip modes are at
zero (2C3c). If the owning player wants to turn before
movement, he could perform a High Energy Turn (2D2
in Klingon Border) before moving.
A ship with a baseline speed (2A1) of zero is still
“moving”. If it uses Energy Tokens to “accelerate” and
move a hex during some of the impulses, it has a
Turn Mode (2C2) and Sideslip Mode (2C4) of 1 and
accumulates turn mode points and Sideslip Points.
(2C3c) Reset: Performing a High Energy Turn,
reversing direction, or stopping (2C7) resets (i.e., re-
duces) the turn mode and sideslip mode count to zero.
For example, a ship with a baseline speed of 16 which
has moved four hexes in a straight line has satisfied
its turn mode and can turn on the next Movement
Sub-Pulse that it moves. However, if the ship now
performs an Emergency Deceleration (2D3), the count
(four) is reduced to zero.
TURN MODE CATEGORIES
Klingon D7: B
Federation CA: D
(2C4) SIDESLIPS
The restrictions of the hexgrid used in this game
create limitations on the movement of units that do
not correspond with reality. To correct this situation,
ships may execute a “sideslip” maneuver. Basically,
instead of moving straight ahead, the ship “slides” into
one of the “ahead and to the side” hexes.
Special markers are provided that say “SLIP
POINT” and can be used by players to mark the point
that their ship sideslipped, helping them remember
where it was and helping them determine when the
ship can sideslip again. The Turn and Slip markers
are numbered (in two sets of nine) and a given ship
should use a turn counter and a slip counter with

matching numbers. It isn’t necessary for
them to match the number of the ship (but
it is convenient); if they do not, simply note
the turn/slip marker numbers on the ship
diagram.
(2C4a) Definition: A sideslip maneuver is ex-
ecuted during any Movement Sub-Pulse that the ship
is scheduled to move. For purposes of sideslip ma-
neuvers, all units at all speeds are assumed to have
a “sideslip mode” of ONE. After satisfying the require-
ments of this slip mode (i.e., moving one hex in a
straight line since the last sideslip), the ship may ex-
ecute a sideslip maneuver. After executing a sideslip,
the ships begins counting again to satisfy the require-
ments of a sideslip. After satisfying the normal turn
mode, it may make a normal turn; after satisfying the
sideslip mode of ONE, the unit may execute a side-
slip. Turn modes and sideslip modes are recorded
and satisfied independently of each other.
(2C4b) Procedure: When executing a sideslip
maneuver, the unit is moved into one of the hexes
forward and to the side, but retains its original facing.
EXAMPLE: A starship in hex 22 facing A has satis-
fied the requirements of either a turn or sideslip. If the
owning player wanted to execute a turn on the next im-
pulse when the ship is scheduled to move, it would be turned
to face direction F and moved into hex 12. If the owning
player wanted to execute a sideslip, the ship would (when
next scheduled to move) enter hex 12 but retain its heading
of “A.” See the illustration below:
(2C4c) Restrictions: For purposes of satisfying
the sideslip requirement, the hex entered during the
sideslip does not count. For purposes of satisfying
the regular turn mode, the movement before, during,
and after the sideslip counts as movement in the same
direction. For purposes of satisfying the sideslip re-
quirement, a regular 60° turn resets the sideslip mode
to zero; the sideslip mode must resume at that point
(but is satisfied by the movement of the ship into its
new hex). A unit may not sideslip during the same
Movement Sub-Pulse that it made a normal turn.
EXAMPLE: A ship is in hex 1119 facing A with both
its turn mode and sideslip mode satisfied. It could:
Move straight ahead to 1118.
Turn 60° right and enter 1218 facing B.
Turn 60° left and enter 1018 facing F.
Sideslip right into 1218 facing A.
Sideslip left into 1018 facing A.
It could NOT turn AND sideslip into 1219 facing B.
It could NOT turn AND sideslip into 1019 facing F.
It could enter 1219 or 1019 or 1120 by performing a
High Energy Turn.
(2C4d) Combinations: A unit cannot combine a
sideslip with a regular turn or high energy turn (2D2)
on the same Movement Sub-Pulse.
Stopping or making a High Energy turn resets the
Turn Mode Count and Sideslip Mode Count to zero.
Integrated Example: A Federation CA (heavy cruiser)
is moving at speed 16 (e.g., a turn mode of 4). The ship is
suddenly confronted with a threat directly ahead. It cannot
turn in hex #1 because that hex is the third it has entered
since its last 60° turn (i.e., its turn mode is unfulfilled). It
can also be assumed that the ship entered hex #1 by a side-
slip and has no power to decelerate.
The ship then moves ahead into hex #2, fulfilling its
turn mode (and sideslip mode).
On the next Sub-pulse, it could enter hex #3 by a turn
or a sideslip, but it elects to turn right instead as it wants to
evade the approaching threat. The ship could move straight
ahead from hex #3, but instead sideslips into hex #4 to
keep as far as possible from the approaching threat.
Having neither its turn mode nor sideslip mode ful-
filled, it has no choice but to enter hex #5. (It could have
used a High Energy Turn, but for our purposes we can as-
sume that, unaware of the unexpected threat, the captain
had not kept five unused energy tokens to pay for such a
maneuver in Squadron Scale.)
Having fulfilled its sideslip mode by the move into
hex #5 (being directly ahead from #4), the ship can side-
slip into hex #6. Note that without sideslips, the ship would
be two hexes “north” of its present position, and that much
closer to the enemy. Having now fulfilled its turn mode
(which required four hexes of forward movement without
a turn; the sideslips counted as forward movement), it can
(and does) turn another 60° right to enter hex #7.

(2C5) MOVING IN REVERSE
Ships normally move directly forward, turning 60°
right or left as their turn mode permits. Ships may,
however, also move backwards using exactly the
same turning procedure. Movement in Reverse costs
twice as much energy as moving forward.
(2C5a) No Combination: Ships may not mix for-
ward and reverse movement during a single turn. The
direction that a ship will be traveling (forward or re-
verse) must be noted during the Energy Allocation
Phase. Direction can be changed only at this point.
(2C5b) Braking Power: Before a ship can re-
verse direction, however, it must pay a “braking en-
ergy” cost equal to four movement points. This cost is
not paid if the ship was stopped (2C7) or moving in
the opposite direction (2C5) at the end of the previ-
ous turn. (Tactical note: Perform an Emergency De-
celeration on Impulse #8 if you are sure you want to
reverse direction next turn.)
(2C6) BASE ROTATION
This is used in Federation Commander: Klingon
Border and need not concern us here.
(2C7) STOPPING vs SPEED ZERO
Speed Zero is a speed; “Stopped” is a condition.
While at Speed Zero, you are still “moving”. When
your ship is stopped, you aren’t moving at all.
(2C7a) Stopped: A ship can be “stopped” as a
result of a breakdown (2D2d), emergency decelera-
tion (2D3), having no power during Energy Alloca-
tion, when docked or landed (2D5), or you can de-
clare your ship “stopped” during Energy Allocation.
When “stopped” a ship can make tactical maneuvers
(2D1), a high energy turn (2D2), or evasive maneu-
vers (2D4), but cannot use acceleration (2B2a). A
“stopped” ship can resume movement only by declar-
ing a speed in a future Energy Allocation Phase.
(2C7b) Speed Zero: A ship at speed zero can
accelerate (2B2a), decelerate (2B2b), use evasive
maneuvers (2D4), make a high energy turn (2D2),
but cannot make tactical maneuvers (2D1). It has a
turn mode of 1; see (2C3b).
(2D) SPECIAL MANEUVERS
(2D1) TACTICAL MANEUVERS
In some cases, a ship’s captain may be unable
or unwilling to move the ship out of the hex it occu-
pies, but the captain may still want to retain the ability
to turn his ship from side to side to respond to enemy
operations (e.g., to turn a new shield toward an at-
tack or to bring other weapons into firing arc). This is
known as a tactical maneuver.
A ship which is “stopped” (2C7) may make a tac-
tical maneuver once per turn. At the end of the fourth
Movement Sub-Pulse, the ship can pay one Energy
Token (regardless of its movement cost, except when
moving in Fleet Scale in which case it is a half-token)
and turn 60° in either direction. The ship could also
make a High Energy Turn (2D2).
(2D2) HIGH ENERGY TURNS
This is used in Federation Commander: Klingon
Border and need not concern us here.
(2D3) EMERGENCY DECELERATION
All ships may use emergency deceleration to bring
themselves to a rapid stop (2C7a). This might be done
to avoid running into an obstacle, or to allow the ship
to move quickly to a key position and then stop once
it has reached it.
(2D3a) Declaration: At the start of any impulse,
before any of the Movement Sub-Pulses, any ship
may declare Emergency Deceleration. The ship then
cancels all further movement for the turn. During the
remainder of the turn, the ship is under the limitations
of being “stopped” (2C7a).
(2D3b) Benefit: Determine how many Energy
Tokens were paid at the start of the turn for the un-
used movement. Divide this number by two (drop-
ping any fractional amount). The balance of the en-
ergy may be used for Shield Reinforcement (and only
that use) during the remainder of the current turn sub-
ject to the shield reinforcement limits of (3C5). If any
remain unused at the end of the Turn, they are lost;
they cannot be carried over to the next turn.
Example: A Federation Heavy Cruiser with a base-
line speed of 16 paid 8 Energy Tokens for that baseline
speed. The fact that it may (or may not) have paid extra
tokens for faster (or slower) movement in previous Im-
pulses is not relevant. The ship declared Emergency De-
celeration at the start of Impulse #3, canceling the move-
ment pre-paid for the next six impulses (#3 through #8).
That amounts to 12 movement points (six energy tokens),
so the ship gains three points of power for use as Shield
Reinforcement subject to the battery limits.
(2D4) EVASIVE MANEUVERING
(2D5) DOCKING, LANDING
These rules are used in Federation Commander:
Klingon Border and need not concern us here.
Federation Gold Star, Silver Star, and
Bronze Star (right to left).
These are awards for heroism in combat.

Lieutenant Commander Terrik Korrell (right) and
Warrant Officer Karihn Korrell, on the occasion of
their wedding on 19 September, 2583. Both sur-
vived the General War. They bought a
war-surplus gunboat and (with a few friends)
spent a decade adventuring in Federation and
Klingon space before settling down on
the warrior colony planet Bakuria.
(2E) DISENGAGEMENT
In some cases a starship captain may find him-
self in a situation that he (or rather his ship) cannot
handle. In these cases, the only thing to do is to leave!
Since “running away” is just not something the mili-
tary does, the ship will “disengage”.
(2E1) METHODS OF DISENGAGEMENT
There are several methods by which ships can
disengage.
(2E1a) Automatic: The scenario special rules
might define that a certain action will amount to dis-
engagement. This usually happens in monster sce-
narios where the monster has some objective other
than your ship.
(2E1b) Separation: If your ship is 35 or more
hexes from any enemy unit, you may simply declare
that your ship has disengaged.
(2E1c) Leaving the Map: In some scenarios, the
map is “fixed” and any unit which leaves the map has
left the area of whatever was being fought over and is
considered to have disengaged.
(2E2) EFFECT OF DISENGAGEMENT
The counter is removed from the map, any seek-
ing weapons targeted on your ship (or that your ship
was controlling) are also removed, and your part in
the scenario is over.
KZINTI
ORION
KLINGON EMPIRE
THOLIAN
STARBASE
BATTLE
STATION
MAJOR
PLANET
NEUTRAL
ZONE
ORGA-
NIA

Combat is a means to an end, not an end in it-
self. It is ultimately a means to gain or maintain con-
trol of territory, or to reduce enemy forces as a means
to that end. Combat involves damaging the enemy
ships to the point that they withdraw (or, if they refuse
to withdraw, are destroyed or captured).
While combat is usually the last choice in solving
a problem (at least, for the Federation), it is some-
times unavoidable. Indeed, the Federation operates
on the theory that combat is best avoided by being so
good at combat that nobody attacks you!
To this end, Star Fleet employs no end of training
exercises and systems to keep all of its captains,
ships, and crews on their toes and ready for every-
thing. You can assume, in any combat scenario, that
all non-combat means of resolving the issue have
been exhausted. Even the Klingons will usually try
non-combat methods of getting what they want first,
if only because combat costs money (fuel, ammuni-
tion, repairs, casualty treatment, replacement train-
ing) and their empire is usually short on cash.
(3A) COMBAT OPERATIONS
Within the game, players will use weapons to
cause damage to enemy ships or other enemy units.
The impact of each weapon is rated in “damage
points”, each of which disables one box on the Ship
Diagram of the enemy ship. This damage is allocated
(3D) to various boxes on the enemy ship.
(3A1) DIRECT-FIRE WEAPONS
These are weapons (such as phasers, photon tor-
pedoes, and disruptors) which are resolved at the in-
stant of firing. One player says “I am firing this weapon
at that target”, the range is determined (by counting
hexes), a die is rolled and the result is cross-indexed
on the appropriate weapons table (see Page 20), and
the number of damage points is thus determined.
(3A2) SEEKING WEAPONS
These weapons (drones, plasma torpedoes) are
covered in Federation Commander: Klingon Border
and need not concern you now.
(3A3) FRIENDLY FIRE
Players cannot fire at their own ships (or other
manned units) unless those units have been captured
or abandoned (3E).
(3A4) VOLLEY DEFINITION
A Volley consists of all of the damage resulting
from all of the Direct-Fire Weapons fired by a single
ship (or a single other unit) during a single Impulse at
a single target (all of which must, by the rules below,
strike the same shield).
(3A5) RANGE
Range is the distance between two units (usually
the firing unit and the target). To determine the range,
count the number of hexes from one unit to the other
(including the hex of the target but not that of the fir-
ing unit) by the shortest path without skipping hexes.
If both units are in the same hex, the range is zero. In
the example below, the range is FIVE.
(3B) FIRING ARCS
All weapons are designated as to the arc in which
they can engage targets. This is known as the firing
arc. The available firing arcs for each weapon are
printed on the Ship Diagram next to that weapon.
There are six firing arcs (each of 60°) as shown
on the diagram below.
LF = Left Forward, L = Left, LR = Left Rear,
RF = Right Forward, R = Right, RR = Right Rear.
For example, the left phaser bank on the Federa-
tion Heavy Cruiser is designated LF+L, indicating that
it can fire into the Left Forward and Left firing arcs.
Each firing arc is a 60° section of the map bounded
by two straight rows of hexes. These straight rows
are simultaneously in two adjacent firing arcs; for ex-
ample, the row of hexes extending directly forward of
the ship is in both the Left Forward and Right For-
ward firing arc.

For purposes of shorthand notation, certain des-
ignations indicate a combined firing arc:
FA = Forward Arc, LF+RF
FX = Forward Arc Expanded, L+LF+RF+R
RA = Rear Arc, LR+RR
RX = Rear Arc Expanded, L+LR+RR+R
LS = Left Side, LF+L+LR.
RS = Right Side, RF+R+RR.
360° = All six firing arcs.
There are two other firing arcs, FH (Front Hemi-
sphere) and RH (Rear Hemisphere) which cover 180°
arcs forward (FH) or to the rear (RH) of the ship. See
the diagrams below.
FH above; RH below.
(3C) SHIELDS
Shields are the primary protection of starships.
They can: absorb tremendous punishment, be re-
paired after damage, and be reinforced when hit.
Ships operate their shields automatically; players do
not pay energy tokens for them. Shuttles do not have
shields.
(3C1) SHIELD NUMBERS
Each ship is surrounded by six shields, with #1 to
the front of the ship, #2 and #3 on the right (starboard)
side, #4 to the rear, and #5 and #6 to the left (port)
side. For example, if a starship was in hex 44 facing
hex 43, the #1 shield would be facing hex 43 while
the #4 shield would be facing 45.
(3C2) INDIVIDUALITY
Shields could be “down” (reduced to zero strength
by damage) or “dropped” (voluntarily deactivated,
usually to allow transporter use). Shields can be vol-
untarily dropped only in the Other Functions Phase
(1E2e). When you drop a shield, write a “D” and the
impulse number next to that shield on the ship dia-
gram. The shield can be reactivated two impulses later
(e.g., a shield dropped during the Other Functions
Phase of Impulse #5 could be raised during the Other
Functions Phase of Impulse #7).
Normally, a ship will operate in combat with all of
its shields “up” or “active” and able to absorb dam-
age. However, individual shields can be turned off to
facilitate transporter operations in Klingon Border.
(3C3) POSITION
Shields are fixed in position, and each absorbs
damage from the direction it faces. Shields cannot be
rotated (other than by turning the entire ship, which is
a valid tactic).
At the end of any turn, you can take up to five
shield boxes from any one shield and use them to
replace the same number of disabled boxes of either
(not both) of the two adjacent shields. [Just erase
damage marks on one shield and add them to the
other.] This can only replace disabled boxes; it can-
not increase the original strength of the shield, and
can only be done once per turn for each ship. You
cannot take shield boxes from one ship and give them
to another ship.
(3C4) DAMAGE TO SHIELDS
Each damage point causes one box of a shield to
be marked as disabled. When every box of a shield is
disabled, the shield is “down” and no longer blocks
damage scored from that direction.
Klingon F5 Frigate Devil’s Anvil

(3C5) SHIELD REINFORCEMENT
Shields can be reinforced. Whenever a volley of
damage strikes an active shield, the player who con-
trols that ship has the option to use a number of his
remaining Energy Tokens (up to the number of work-
ing batteries) to absorb some of the damage. Each
Energy Token blocks one point of damage. Note that
while batteries limit the amount of power used on any
given volley, you can use that much power against
every volley, even if you used it on a previous volley
of the same or a different impulse.
(3C6) WHICH SHIELD WAS HIT
It is important to determine which of the target’s
shields was struck by enemy fire. In the case of a
Direct-Fire Weapon, draw an imaginary line from the
center of the hex of the unit which fired the weapon to
the center of the target hex. Whichever of the six hex-
sides (of the target hex) the line crosses defines which
of the shields was struck (i.e., the one facing that hex
side).
Example: Your ship, the USS Hood, is in hex 0706,
facing in direction A, and is being fired upon by three
Klingon cruisers. One of these is in hex 0603. A line from
the center of 0603 to the center of 0706 crosses the hex
side in front of the USS Hood, meaning that fire from this
Klingon has hit the #1 shield (which faces that hex side).
The third Klingon is in 1005, and a line from that hex to
0706 crosses the hex side to the right-front of the USS Hood,
the arc covered by its #2 shield. The Klingon in 0804 is a
special case.
(3C6c) Split Shield Boundaries: In cases where
the line of fire strikes exactly on a corner (for example,
a ship in hex 0804 firing on a ship in hex 0706), the
owner of the target ship may select either of the two
shields (#1 or #2) to take the damage. (All weapons
fired that impulse by that attacker on that target will
strike the same shield. Damage cannot be divided
between the two shields.)
(3C6d) Same Hex: In the event that the firing ship
and target ship are in the same hex, resolve the ques-
tion of “which shield was hit” from the position occu-
pied by the last ship to enter the hex on the sub-pulse
before it entered that hex. (If both entered at the same
time, judge them from these previous hexes.)
(3C7) SHIELD REGENERATION
Shields can be regenerated. At the start of each
turn, you can pay two Energy Tokens to regenerate
(remove the disabled mark from) any one shield box
on any one shield. You may do this for any number of
shield boxes (up to the limit of Energy Tokens you
have available). The shields are repaired immediately.
(3C8) SHIELD BURN THROUGH
If any volley consists of at least ten points but
does not penetrate a shield, score one of the points
of this volley as internal damage rather than scoring
it on the shields. Then score the other nine (or more)
points on the shield (and reinforcement if any).
Example: A volley of 13 damage points is scored
against the #1 shield of a Federation cruiser (which has 15
boxes in Squadron Scale). Except for Shield Burn Through,
this would mean 13 boxes marked “disabled” and nothing
further. The Federation cruiser might have used two Energy
Tokens (he has two batteries) to reduce the number of
disabled shield boxes to 11. Whether he does or not, this is
still a volley of 10 or more points with no internal damage,
resulting in one “burn through” point. So, instead of 13
shield boxes marked disabled, only 10 are, with two points
of damage blocked by reinforcement and one point of
internal damage. The Federation player marks one
Transporter box disabled.
(3D) DAMAGE ALLOCATION
Once damage has struck the ship, it is first ap-
plied to the single facing shield. Each point of dam-
age disables one box of that shield. (Mark the shield
box with an X or any other mark to indicate this. Dis-
abled shield boxes do not stop further damage.) If
there are more points of damage than the strength of
the shield, the remaining damage is scored on the
inside of the ship, with one damage point disabling
one box on the ship card. In Federation Commander:
Klingon Border there is a simple procedure for this
involving die rolls and a chart. For your First Missions,
you will use an even faster system: the owner of the
target ship simply marks the damage points on any
non-shield box he wants to. Tough choices await! Will
you preserve power to move or weapons to shoot?
Federation Heavy Cruiser
Actual-Size Photo of Starline 2400 Miniature
0706
0705
0704
0707
0506
0505
0504
0507
0906
0905
0904
0707
0806
0805
0804
0803
0606
0605
0604
0603
1006
1005
1004
1003

(3E) HOW SHIPS ARE LOST
The destruction of a starship in combat is actu-
ally a rather rare event as ships that take severe dam-
age usually leave the area (and the other side, know-
ing that the tables may be reversed in the future, al-
lows this to happen). Ships unable to leave the area
are usually captured and the crews taken to some
remote planet to wait out the war (or, in the case of
“peacetime incidents”, are sent home as soon as
things settle down). Self-destruction to avoid capture
is relatively rare (outside of fiction) since humanoid
life is important to both sides and there are relatively
few secrets of military technology that the enemy
doesn’t already know anyway. Dying for the honor of
the flag is a romantic notion; staying alive to return to
duty at some future point is the vastly more common
outcome, even in the case of the Klingons.
The point of combat is usually to control the area,
not destroy a particular ship. Even so, the loss of a
ship does happen whenever all non-shield boxes of
the ship are marked disabled at any point during the
turn.
Capturing a ship and self-destruction are possible
in Federation Commander: Klingon Border but need
not concern you on your First Missions.
Kzinti Heavy Battlecruiser
Actual-Size Photo of Starline 2400 Miniature
The history of the Star Fleet Universe covers an
extended period of time, the details of which are not
particularly critical to players of Federation Com-
mander. Players may, in their own minds, set their
battles during times of tense peace or open warfare.
While the exact date that the humans contacted
the Vulcans is not precisely known, it has been arbi-
trarily established as 2400 AD. The humans took to
space with their usual passion, encountering many
other races in nearby stars. Some of these, including
the Vulcans, Andorians, Rigelians, and others, joined
together in 2404 to form a loose alliance that later
became the United Federation of Planets. The Fed-
eration launched its first starship in 2462 and formed
Star Fleet in 2471. The Federation first encounted the
Klingons (peacefully as it turned out) in 2485 (but had
known about them from the Vulcans for many years).
The Klingons had already fought a series of wars with
their neighbors (including the Kzintis, whom they call
“Tigermen”) and didn’t need another enemy. The Klin-
gons quickly learned, however, that there were more
threats to their Empire than just military ones, as the
booming Federation economy threatened to engulf
the Empire.
The Federation fought the Kzintis from 2488-2492
(with Klingon military advisors on Star Fleet ships!).
Relations with the Klingons soured in 2502 when
the Federation arbitrarily declared their border to be
4750 parsecs from the center of the “primary mem-
ber zone” (roughly the distance to the ceasefire line
with the Romulans). This declaration took in a wide
swath of territory which the Klingons regarded as their
own (even if they had never formally declared or tried
to negotiate a border). The Federation had regarded
the Klingon frontier as a wide unclaimed region and
felt that they were stabilizing the situation. This re-
sulted in a brief Klingon-Federation “war” from 2510-
2511, a conflict that the Federation considered to be
a minor border skirmish.
The Federation were more concerned with the
Kzintis, who had rejected the Federation border dec-
laration of 2502 and still had major military forces in
the region around Cygnus and Mantor. This resulted
in a major Federation-Kzinti war from 2536-2542.
A brief Federation-Klingon “war” in 2556 ended
with the Organian ceasefire. The Organians are much
misunderstood; they brokered but did not enforce the
ceasefire and their “astounding mental powers” could
prevent conflict only in their own system, which be-
came a neutral enclave where diplomats could nego-
tiate away any further border tensions.
The General War, the largest conflict in the his-
torical record, began in 2568 as a war between the
Klingons, Kzintis, and others, and spread to the Fed-
eration with the Klingon Invasion of 2571 (and the
Romulan Invasion of 2573). This conflict lasted until
2585, when the participants stopped fighting more due
to economic exhaustion than any success in battle.

(4A) DIRECT-FIRE WEAPONS
Direct-Fire Weapons (such as phasers, photon
torpedoes, and disruptors) are those weapons which
are resolved at the instant of firing. One player says “I
am firing this weapon at that target”, the range is de-
termined (by counting hexes), a die is rolled and the
result is cross-indexed on the appropriate weapons
table, and the number of damage points is thus de-
termined. There is no counter moving on the map to
reflect a direct-fire weapon.
(4A1) WHEN TO FIRE
Direct-Fire Weapons are fired in the Offensive Fire
Phase (1E2d) of the Sequence of Play. All weapons
fired in this Phase are simultaneous, so it is entirely
possible for weapons on two opposing ships to de-
stroy each other during the same Phase.
(4A2) SHIP DIAGRAMS
Each box on a Ship Diagram represents a single
weapon or other system. Each weapon on a ship can
be fired once per turn (exceptions: photon torpedoes
can be fired every other turn). To be fired, a weapon
must satisfy all of these requirements:
it must be undamaged,
it must be provided with the required power, and
it must be able to fire into the arc facing the target.
(4A3) BLOCKED TARGETS
The presence of another unit in the hex of the
firing ship, the target ship, or an intervening hex has
no effect. Hexes are thousands of times larger than
ships, and it’s easy to shoot around them.
However, in larger battles, whenever more than
three friendly (allied or same empire) ships are in the
same hex, no more than three of them can fire out of
the hex through any one hex side (or at any single
target or targets in any single hex) during any given
impulse due to warp field interactions. Any number of
ships can fire into such a hex.
(4B) PHASERS
Phasers are the most common and most numer-
ous weapons that starships carry. Phasers fire
“phased energy” (hence their name) which over-
whelms and damages the systems of the target.
Because of their relatively low power demands
and the lack of any shock when firing, they are
mounted in several batteries around the ship (unlike
heavy weapons), providing all-around firepower for
both attack and defense. Phasers, because of their
large numbers, often cause most of the damage in a
starship duel. There is no need to keep track of “phaser
ammunition” since these weapons are armed with
electrical power from the engine power grid.
(4B1) GENERAL RULE
Each “Phaser” box on the Ship Diagram (often
marked PH-1 or PH-2 or PH-3) represents one phaser.
Each phaser/box can fire once (and only once) dur-
ing any given turn, is disabled by a single point of
damage, and is repaired by four repair points. Note
that it is possible to fire a phaser on Impulse #8 of
one turn and again on Impulse #1 of the next turn.
(4B2) TYPES OF PHASERS
There are four types of phasers in Federation
Commander, as follows:
(4B2a) Phaser-1: The “standard” type used by
the Federation, this costs one energy token to fire. It
is marked PH-1 on the Ship Diagrams.
(4B2b) Phaser-2: A lower-technology weapon
used by the Klingons, this still costs one energy to-
ken to fire but causes less damage. It is marked PH-
2 on the Ship Diagrams. Phaser-2s are, in fact,
phaser-1s with lower-quality fire control systems.
(4B2c) Phaser-3: Used as a short-range defense
weapon (although it can be fired at any target), this
phaser does relatively little damage and only at short
range, but costs 1/2 of an energy token to fire. It is
marked PH-3 on the Ship Diagrams.
(4B2d) Phaser-4: Used only on bases and not
within the scope of First Missions.
(4B2e) Tables: Each of these phasers has its own
Phaser Combat Table, all of which are seen on Page
20. A Phaser-1 or Phaser-2 could be fired as a Phaser-
3 (to save power when the target isn’t going to need a
lot of killing, since this would cost the half-token of a
phaser-3). Firing a phaser as a lower-class weapon
still uses the one allowed firing of that weapon each
turn. A Phaser-1 cannot fire as a Phaser-2.

(4B3) FIRING PROCEDURE
Phasers are fired during Offensive Fire Phase
(1E2d) of the Sequence of Play. Use the following
procedure.
(4B3a) Step 1: Determine the Range (3A5) to
the Target.
(4B3b) Step 2: Select a phaser you wish to fire.
The phaser must be able to fire in the direction of the
target, that is, the target must be within the firing arc
(3B) of the phaser and within range.
(4B3c) Step 3: Pay the cost of firing the phaser
(one, or one-half energy tokens depending on what
phaser type you are firing); see (4B2).
(4B3d) Step 4: Roll one six-sided die. Use the
result of this die roll and the range to Cross-Index on
the Table for the type of phaser you fired and deter-
mine the damage. The result is the number of Dam-
age Points scored.
EXAMPLE: A Federation cruiser wants to fire a
phaser-1 at a Klingon D7. It determines that the chosen
phaser is within arc and not damaged. One energy token is
paid, and the phaser is fired. Count the range (let us say
five hexes for this example). Comparing the range to the
die roll of “1” means that five damage points were scored.
(4C) PHOTON TORPEDOES
These are the primary heavy weapon of the Fed-
eration. Photons are classed as “heavy weapons”
because of the power usage and shock of firing. The
heavily-reinforced launch tubes can only fire into the
120° arc generally ahead of the ship because of the
required rigid mountings.
The torpedo is loaded from the ship’s power
sources in a launch tube with encapsulated antimat-
ter, then fired at the enemy. When it strikes the target,
the antimatter is released and causes an explosion.
Because of the nature of the weapon, it causes the
same amount of damage (eight points) at all ranges,
while the corresponding Klingon weapon (the disrup-
tor) is pure energy and has less effect at longer ranges.
Note: In some later versions of “trek”, some Klin-
gon ships used photon torpedoes. Players may freely
experiment with this idea by simply using the photon
rules for the disruptors on Klingon ships.
(4C1) GENERAL RULE
(4C1a) Ship Diagram: Each PHOT box on the
Ship Diagram represents one photon torpedo launch
tube. Each is armed and fired independently of the
other; energy costs given are for each torpedo, not
the ship’s entire arsenal. Each photon is disabled by
a single point of damage, and is repaired by four re-
pair points. There is only one kind of photon torpedo.
(4C1b) Firing Rate: Each photon tube can fire
once (and only once) every second turn,
(4C1c) Ammunition: There is no need to keep
track of “photon ammunition” since there are many
“canisters” on board and these weapons are armed
with electrical power from the engine power grid.
(4C2) ARMING PHOTON TORPEDOES
Because of their huge power demands, it takes
two turns to arm a photon torpedo. (Even if power
was available, the system simply cannot accept all of
the power during a single turn.) Each torpedo requires
four points of power, two on one turn and two more
on the second turn. (You cannot skip turns in the arm-
ing sequence.) Note that a player is not required to
arm photon torpedoes (or any other weapon) and
might well want to use the energy for other purposes.
(4C2a) Arming: Photon torpedoes can only be
armed during Energy Allocation. During Energy Allo-
cation of the first turn, you pay two Energy Tokens
per photon you wish to load and mark the “P” (Pre-
load) box on the Photon Arming track for that specific
photon. During Energy Allocation of the Second Turn,
you pay two additional Energy Tokens and mark the
“L” (Loaded) box on the Photon Arming track for that
specific photon. (If you do not pay the two Energy
Tokens to complete the loading cycle, the Pre-Load
mark is erased.) You can then fire the photon torpedo
during any Direct-Fire Weapons phase of the turn.
Example: A Federation cruiser has two photon
torpedoes. Having fired them during Turn #2, the Federation
player wants to fire them again. During Energy Allocation
of Turn #3, he pays four Energy Tokens and marks the “P”
box for both photons on the Photon Arming track, which
indicates that he has started arming both tubes. During
Energy Allocation of Turn #4, he pays another four Energy
Tokens to mark the “L” boxes on both torpedoes. He fires
Torpedo A on Turn #4 (the target was only worth one
torpedo or he would have fired both), and marks the “F”
(fired) box.
At the end of that turn, the player erases all of the marks
on the Torpedo A track, but he never had a chance to fire
Torpedo B. During Energy Allocation of Turn #5, he pays
one Energy Token to hold Torpedo B and two Energy
Tokens to buy a Pre-Load mark for Torpedo A.
(4C2b) Holding: If you have not fired the torpedo
by the end of the second arming turn, you will have to
pay one Energy Token (in the Energy Allocation Phase
of the subsequent turn) to “hold” the torpedo. You can
do this for as many turns as you wish.
(4C2c) Pre-Game Arming: At the start of each
scenario, the Federation player (or the player con-
trolling any ship with a photon torpedo) has the op-
tion to have a Pre-Load mark for each photon tor-
pedo on the ship, reflecting loading of that weapon
on the previous turn. This would allow him to pay
Energy Tokens on the first turn to complete the arm-
ing of photon torpedoes (otherwise he would have no
photon torpedoes to fire on the first turn). Special sce-
nario rules might prohibit this if the Federation ship
did not have time or energy to pre-load the photons.
If the player takes this option, he cannot count the
batteries in determining his starting energy.
(4C3) OVERLOADED PHOTON TORPEDOES
This is covered in Klingon Border and need not
concern you on your First Missions.

(4C4) FIRING PHOTON TORPEDOES
Photon torpedoes are fired during the Direct-Fire
Weapons Phase of the Sequence of Play. The player
who owns the ship firing the torpedo uses the follow-
ing procedure.
(4C4a) Step 1: He announces which torpedo he
is firing (which must not be disabled), the target (which
must be within range and firing arc. Other players can
confirm this data (or show it not to be true) and point
out any rule or condition which would prevent firing.
(4C4b) Step 2: The range (3A5) is calculated. If
the target is out of range, the weapon cannot be fired.
(4C4c) Step 3: One die is rolled for each torpedo.
Cross reference the adjusted result with the Range
on the Photon Torpedo Chart to determine if the tor-
pedo hit or missed. If it hit, score the appropriate dam-
age (8 points) on the facing shield of the target unit. If
this penetrates the shields, use (3D) to score the dam-
age.
Example: Our Federation cruiser fired Torpedo B at a
Klingon cruiser at range 12. The Klingon ship was within
the firing arc and, as we have seen, the torpedo was properly
armed and un-disabled. The Federation player rolled one
die, which resulted in a “2”. Consulting the Photon Torpedo
Table, the player notes that at Range 12 any die roll of 1 or
2 would be a hit, so the torpedo has struck the target and
caused 8 points of damage.
(4C5) PHOTON ARMING SUMMARY
Because of the unusual two-turn arming system
for photon torpedoes, new players can be confused
by the rules (which are designed to give players maxi-
mum flexibility). Here is a summary of the arming rules:
(4C5a) Pre-Load: Carried out during Energy Al-
location, costs two energy tokens per photon, does
not result in a photon able to be fired.
(4C5b) Loading: Carried out during Energy Allo-
cation, and can only be done on the turn after Pre-
Loading. If not done, the pre-load energy is lost. This
costs two energy tokens per photon and results in a
torpedo which can be fired during any impulse of the
Loading Turn.
(4C5c) Holding: If the torpedo was not fired on
the loading turn, the player must pay one Energy To-
ken per photon to hold them during the next turn, dur-
ing which it could be fired on any impulse. An armed
photon can be held for any number of turns if energy
is paid to hold it. If the holding energy is not paid, the
torpedo is ejected into space and lost.
(4D) DISRUPTORS
These are the primary heavy weapon of the Klin-
gons and Kzintis. Disruptors are classed as “heavy
weapons” because of the power usage and shock of
firing. The heavily-reinforced weapon mounts can only
fire into the 120° arc generally ahead of the ship be-
cause of the required rigid mountings. The disruptor
is loaded from the ship’s power sources, then a “bolt”
of energy is “stripped” from the launcher and fired at
the enemy.
(4D1) GENERAL RULE
(4D1a) Ship Diagram: Each DISR box on the
Ship Diagram represents one disruptor mount, is dis-
abled by one “Torpedo” hit, and is repaired by four
repair points. Each is armed and fired independently
of the other; energy costs given are for each disrup-
tor, not the ship’s entire arsenal. There is only one
kind of disruptor. A disruptor could be fired on Impulse
#8 of one turn and then fired again on Impulse #1 of
the next turn.
(4D1b) Firing Rate: Each disruptor can fire once
(and only once) per turn. It can fire every turn.
(4D1c) Ammunition: There is no need to keep
track of “disruptor ammunition” since these weapons
are armed directly from the engine power grid.
(4D2) FIRING DISRUPTORS
Disruptors are fired during the Direct-Fire Weap-
ons Phase of the Sequence of Play. The player who
owns the ship firing the disruptor uses the following
procedure.
(4D2a) Step 1: He announces which disruptor he
is firing (which must not be Disabled), the target (which
must be within range and firing arc). Other players
can confirm this data (or show it not to be true) and
point out any rule or condition which would prevent
firing.
(4D2b) Step 2: The player owning and firing the
disruptor pays two Energy Tokens to fire it.
(4D2c) Step 3: The range is calculated (3A5). If
the target is out of range, the weapon cannot be fired.
(4D2d) Step 4: One die is rolled for each disrup-
tor. Cross-index the modified result to the range on
the Disruptor Chart (on Page 20) to determine if the
disruptor hit or missed. If it hit, score the appropriate
damage (listed at the bottom of each column, based
on range) on the facing shield of the target unit. If this
penetrates the shields, use the (3D) Damage Alloca-
tion Procedure.
Example: A Klingon D7 wants to fire both of its
disruptors at a Federation ship at range 12. The Klingon
player pays the four energy tokens and rolls two dice,
getting a “2” and a “4”. He consults the Disruptor Chart on
page 20. Under Range 12, he finds that 1-4 is listed as the
“to hit” numbers, so both disruptors hit. The next row on
that chart tells him that each scores 3 damage points.
Federation
Phaser-II

(4E) ANTI-DRONES
Anti-drones are purely defensive weapons used
by the Klingons and the Federation. They are in Fed-
eration Commander: Klingon Border. For purposes
of your First Missions, simply treat the ADD boxes on
the D7 as “free hits”.
(4F) SEEKING WEAPONS
Seeking Weapons are those that (unlike Direct-
Fire Weapons which are just a die roll) are shown on
the map by a counter and move toward their target
until they reach it or the target (or the weapon) is de-
stroyed. Seeking weapons will by definition not strike
their target for one
or more impulses
after 
they 
are
launched. Note that
Direct Fire Weap-
ons are “fired” while
Seeking Weapons
are “launched”.
For your First
Missions we will
simply ignore seek-
ing weapons. Treat
any “drone” racks
on the “ship card” as simply “free
hits”.
(4G) DRONES
Also known as missiles, these
are unmanned, self-propelled, and
guided delivery vehicles carrying a
thermonuclear warhead. They are in
Federation Commander: Klingon
Border; for your First Missions we
need not worry about them.
(4H) SUICIDE FREIGHTERS
While used only in attacks on bases
(since it could never even hope to hit a mov-
ing target), suicide freighters can be devas-
tating due to the huge volume of explosives
they can carry. These are in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border and
you need not worry about
them on your First Missions.
PHASER 2 RANGE
Energy Cost to Fire = 1
4 - 8
PHASER 1 RANGE
Energy Cost to Fire = 1
6 - 8
PHASER 3 RANGE
Energy Cost to Fire = 1/2
4 - 8
9 - 1 5
(4J) PLASMA TORPEDOES
See Federation Commander: Romulan Border for
the rules on this weapon. Until you obtain that prod-
uct, you can sleep well, because once you see this
weapon, you will have only nightmares.
DISRUPTOR
RANGE
Energy Cost to Fire = 2
TYPE
3 - 4
5 - 8
Standard
HIT
1-3
DAM
PHOTON
RANGE
Energy Cost to Fire = 2+2
TYPE
3 - 4
5 - 8
9 - 1 2 1 3 - 2 5
Standard
HIT
1-3
1-2
DAM

There are many systems and pieces of equip-
ment on a starship which are not weapons or power
systems, and these are described in this chapter.
(5A) CONTROL SYSTEMS
These are the compartments that contain the
command officers. Data from sensors goes to these
places, and orders for the movement of the ship and
the use of its weapons and other systems issue forth.
(5A1) DEFINITION
Control systems include the Bridge (abbreviated
BRDG on the Ship Diagrams), Emergency Bridge
(EMER), Auxiliary Control (AUX), and on some ships
the Flag Bridge (FLAG). The Bridge is the primary
control space for the ship; the Emergency Bridge is
the backup in case of problems. Auxiliary Control
handles many routine functions (sort of the second
brain in the hips of a dinosaur) but can take over for
the Bridge if both it and the Emergency Bridge are
disabled. The Flag Bridge is where the squadron or
fleet commander manages the entire battle space,
but it can take over for the Bridge if all other control
systems are disabled.
(5A2) PENALTIES FOR LOSS
If all of the control spaces on a ship are disabled,
the following penalties apply:
(5A2a) Turn Mode: The ship’s turn mode (the
number of hexes it must travel, not the category) is
increased by one hex at all speeds.
(5A2b) Weapons: When firing any direct-fire
weapon, add one to the die roll for that weapon. Treat
a natural 6 as a 6. No seeking weapons can be
launched, but those already in flight continue to be
controlled by the ship.
(5A2c) Other: Tractor beams and transporters
cannot be used, except that transporters could be
used in an emergency evacuation (5E7).
Example: A Federation Frigate (in Squadron Scale)
has four control boxes: two bridge, one auxiliary control,
and one emergency bridge. If all of these have been disabled
in combat, the ship is under the penalties above until one
of them is repaired.
(5B) LABORATORIES
Most starships have some laboratories on board.
While these conduct various kinds of research (medi-
cal, physics, astronomy, tactical, etc.), each can be
configured to conduct any kind of studies. This is de-
fined in Federation Commander: Klingon Border and
need not concern you on your First Missions.
(5C) PROBES
Probes are tiny, unmanned, self-guiding space
vessels packed with scientific instruments and used
to obtain scientific and tactical information about things
which are too dangerous for the ship to approach di-
rectly. They can also be used as weapons in special
situations. This is defined in Federation Commander:
Klingon Border and need not concern you on your
(5D) TRACTOR BEAMS
Tractor beams are electro-gravitic force beams
able to hold various objects. They can be used to hold
objects at a distance or pull them closer. Tractor
beams cannot pull pieces off of an enemy ship. This
is covered in Federation Commander: Klingon Bor-
der and need not concern you on your First Missions.
(5E) TRANSPORTERS
Transporters are used to move people, cargo, and
other things between ships. They have their uses, and
their limits, as are defined in Federation Commander:
Klingon Border. These need not concern you on your
(5F) MARINE BOARDING PARTIES
Marines have a vital role to play in space combat
by conducting raids on enemy ships, and in rare cases
can actually capture them. This is covered in Federa-
tion Commander: Klingon Border and need not con-
cern you on your First Missions.
Klingon Captain
Targis Ketrick
commands the D7
battlecruiser
Thunderchild on
patrol along the
Federation border.
He is known as an
expert tactician.
Romulan Sub-
Commander Tiris
Aurellius of the War
Eagle Blackwing.
The son of a
Senator, Tiris wants
to score a victory to
further his political
career.

(5G) REPAIRS
All starships have engineers and crews assigned
to the task of repairing damage during combat. In-
deed, only about half of the crew is needed to actu-
ally run the ship in combat, with everyone else as-
signed to damage control parties dispersed around
the ship.
(5G1) DAMAGE CONTROL RATING
All ships in the game have a damage control rat-
ing shown on their ship diagram, which is two for ei-
ther cruiser. This rating is not reduced by damage to
the ship during combat. There is, effectively, no limit
on the number of repairs a ship can perform on itself
(given enough time).
(5G2) REPAIR POINTS
Every turn, each ship generates a number of re-
pair points equal to its Damage Control Rating. There
is no energy cost for this.
(5G3) REPAIR COST
Every box on a starship (or other unit) costs a
certain number of points to repair, as follows:
4 points = All weapons (red boxes);
phasers, photon torpedoes, disruptors,
drone racks, anti-drone racks.
3 points = All power systems (blue boxes);
warp engine boxes, impulse engine
boxes, reactor boxes, battery boxes.
2 points = Most ship systems (yellow
boxes); tractor, transporter, laboratory,
probe launcher, shuttle.
2 points = Control systems (gold boxes);
bridge, auxiliary control, flag bridge,
emergency bridge.
1 point = Hull boxes, Cargo boxes (tan
boxes).
Shields have their own repair system and cannot
be repaired by these rules.
(5G4) REPAIR PROCEDURE
During the Repair Phase of the turn, the owner of
each ship determines how many repair points he has,
and spends these as per the above list to repair dis-
abled boxes. Note that the cost is per box, not per
item, so a 15-box warp engine would take 45 repair
points, not 3. Unused repair points cannot be carried
over to the next turn. Points could be applied to start
repair on a single box, with the repair points of the
next turn used to finish (or at least work on) that box;
this will require a written record. A player must com-
plete the repairs of the box he started repairing be-
fore spending repair points on other boxes.
Example: A Federation Frigate (in Squadron Scale)
has a Repair Rating of 2, producing two repair points per
turn. At the end of the first turn, the player owning the ship
uses them to repair two hull boxes damaged when Klingon
disruptors penetrated the #2 shield. On the next turn, the
Federation player uses his two points to start repairs on a
photon torpedo, finishing this repair on the third turn (two
points generated per turn, need four points to repair a
weapon).
(5G5) RELOADS
If a drone or anti-drone rack, or a probe launcher,
is empty (all ammunition launched or fired), it can be
fully reloaded using rules in Klingon Border. This need
not concern you on your First Missions.
(5G6) SHUTTLE REPAIRS
Damage to shuttlecraft can be repaired using rules
in Klingon Border. This need not concern you on your
(5H) SHUTTLECRAFT
Shuttlecraft are small spacecraft used to carry
personnel and small amounts of cargo from one ship
to another or from a ship to a planet or another loca-
tion. Shuttles have more range than transporters, and
sometimes it is more efficient for the ship to remain
on course and let a shuttle carry some of the crew to
a location where they will complete some task.
Shuttles are not armed and are fairly vulnerable in
combat, and as such are rarely used in combat con-
ditions (but are the object of rescue in some sce-
narios). Shuttles are covered in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border and you need not worry about
them on your First Missions.
Telik Kreg (right) was born on the
warrior colony of Walkuria to a
military family. After his father was
disgraced in combat, the Empire
would not give Telik an officer’s
commission. He left the Klingon
Empire to work on various Fed-
eration worlds as a mercenary,
and considered himself to be
Walkurian rather than a Klingon.

The famous pirate
“Bruce the Fierce”
operated the
raider
Jack of Diamonds.
(5L) ORION PIRATE SPECIAL RULES
The Orion Pirates (7E) have special operating
conditions unique to their ... line of business. These
are reflected by special rules in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border and need not concern you
on your First Missions. They can boost their engine
power (which damages their engines), their hulls are
coated with stealth materials, and they can mount a
variety of weapons.
(6A) PLANETS
Planets are astronomical bodies that range from
a few thousand to many tens of thousands of kilome-
ters across. These are covered in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border and need not concern you
on your First Missions.
(5J) HULL DAMAGE
These boxes refer to nonessential systems such
as crew quarters, the mess hall, storage areas, and
the bowling alley. After the battle is over, the repair
crews will fix this damage, or you can repair these
items during the battle to use them as “padding” for
further damage.
Note that in Klingon Border hull damage is sub-
divided into forward and rear sections for by the dam-
age allocation system, something that need not bother
you on your First Missions.
(5K) CARGO
Certain ships (such as the Orion Pirate, the base,
and the freighters in Klingon Border, and other ships
in future products) have large cargo holds for hauling
freight. These boxes are marked “Cargo” on the ship
card. Cargo boxes are disabled on “Hull” hits; the
owner of the ship may decide whether to take a “Hull”
hit on a cargo box or on a hull box. As these units are
not in First Missions, the concept of cargo does not
need to concern you at this point. We just wanted you
to know that it is covered in Klingon Border.
Orion pirate ships such as the one above
have stealth coating, can double the ouput
of their warp engines (causing damage
to the engines), and might mount any of
a variety of stolen weapons.
Tholians (see the patrol ship above) are
refugees from another galaxy, which they
ruled with an Iron Hand until they were
overthrown by their Seltorian slaves.
Tholian ships mount phasers and
either disruptors or photons.
And then there is that web system of theirs.

V
Federation Commander is a game of the Star Fleet
Universe, a branch of the trek genre based on The Origi-
nal Series, which is considerably more vast, detailed,
and consistent than the original material. We have many
games within our universe, all using a consistent back-
ground and technology database. You will find the same
ships and weapons in all of our games.
OUR HOME ON THE WEB
Visit www.starfleetgames.com for information and
discussions about all of our games, including this one. It
can be a little intimidating at first as hundreds of gamers
have been discussing our earlier products for years, but
the BBS is a friendly place where players can interact
with the designers and each other. One of the most
fascinating parts is the new product development area,
where new games are designed and tested before your
very eyes, and you have the opportunity to influence
these designs (including future Federation Commander
products). Our web shopping cart includes all of our
games and miniature starships, along with other items
such as T-shirts and cloisonné pins.
WHERE IT ALL BEGAN
First published in 1979, Star Fleet Battles is easily
the bestselling space combat game of all time. As it grew
over the years (and continues to grow), Star Fleet
Battles has become increasingly complex. If you find
Federation Commander to lack the kind of gritty detail
and intense engineering you crave, then check out Star
Fleet Battles. Players of Federation Commander will
have little difficulty getting into SFB since the concepts
are similar (and the ships and weapons tables are nearly
identical), but be warned that the universe is vast and
there are a lot of things that starships can do in unusual
circumstances. Star Fleet Battles is scheduled to con-
tinue releasing new products along side Federation
Commander.
PLAY FEDERATION COMMANDER ON-LINE
Visit www.sfbonline.com and sign up to play Star
Fleet Battles in an on-line real-time environment against
live opponents. For a small subscription fee, you will be
able to participate in individual games, tournaments, and
special events. The managers of sfbonline.com are
already working to bring Federation Commander to the
on-line arena in the Spring of 2006.
PRECISION-SCALE STARSHIPS
Our Starline-2400 series of pewter starships can be
found in stores and on our web shopping cart, both in
individual blister packs and in larger Boxes. (The Squad-
ron Boxes are configured to match the ships in Federa-
tion Commander but the individual ships are the same
as the Fleet Boxes.) Over a hundred ships are available
from all of the Empires of the Star Fleet Universe.
BECOME A RANGER
The Star Fleet Rangers are the elite demonstration
team of the Star Fleet Universe. Every weekend, some-
where in America and the rest of the world, Star Fleet
Rangers are at their local game stores playing the games
of the Star Fleet Universe. This “shows the flag” to the
gaming audience, helps them find new opponents, and
keeps the store owners happy. To get information on
becoming a Ranger, go to www.starfleetgames.com and
look for the Ranger listing under Player Resources.
THE STRATEGIC SIDE OF THE UNIVERSE
Federation Commander and Star Fleet Battles are
tactical games, and as such are only one view of the
Universe. Our strategic game, Federation & Empire,
shows you the strategic side of things. Here you com-
mand not just a squadron, but an entire empire! You can
collect taxes, select production priorities, order fleets into
battle, and pay the repair bills at the end (preferably with
money you got from captured territory). Look for infor-
mation about Federation & Empire on our web site and
in our catalog.
PLAYING A ROLE IN THE UNIVERSE
Board games such as SFB, F&E, and Federation
Commander are only part of the fun to be had in the
Star Fleet Universe. Through our Prime Directive role-
playing books, you can get up close and personal with
the enemy. You can walk on new worlds, meet interest-
ing new civilizations, and carry home a few souvenirs.
We offer Prime Directive roleplaying books for a num-
ber of existing rules systems (GURPS, D20, D6) and
will be adding new systems as time goes by.
DROPPING YOUR CARD IN THE HAT
Star Fleet Battle Force is a fast-paced and excit-
ing card game of the Star Fleet Universe. Ship cards
have symbols defining their weapons, while weapon
cards have the same symbols. If a card in your hand
matches a ship in your fleet, you can use that card to
wreck an enemy ship. Based on classic naval war type
games (with many new rules tricks built in), this game is
as fun as it is colorful. Each boxed card game is enough
for six players and there are no booster packs to buy.
KEEPING IT ALL TOGETHER
Captain’s Log is the official journal of the Star Fleet
Universe. It includes new rules, advice, news, tactics,
and ships for all of our games. Also included is exciting
fiction, rich history, great art, and a few laughs. Look for
the latest issue of Captain’s Log in your local store.
COMMANDER’S CIRCLE
Players of Federation Commander should consider
signing up for the Commander’s Circle, a free club with
many benefits. Go to www.starfleetgames.com/fc and
look for the Commander’s Circle button, which takes you
to the registration page. Those who sign up will be
emailed a PDF with more scenarios for use with Fed-
eration Commander: Klingon Border and will have
access to other files and benefits. This will be the first
place to get word of upcoming Federation Commander
products, including Booster Packs (extra copies of the
SSDs), Klingon Attack, Romulan Border, Romulan At-
tack, and others already in development.

(7A) SHIP DIAGRAMS
Each ship is represented by a “Ship Diagram”,
which is a collection of colored boxes representing
the systems on the ship, printed over a grayscale il-
lustration of the ship itself. One box is one damage
point. Several connected boxes with a single head-
ing are all the same kind of system but each is a sepa-
rate damage point.
(7A1) COLORS USED ON THE SHIP DIAGRAM
Generally speaking, shields are shown in purple,
green is used for “ammunition” (marines, drones,
drone racks, shuttlecraft, frame damage, probes), and
the standard colors are used for the ship’s compo-
nents (red for weapons, blue for power, tan for hull
and cargo, gold for command, yellow for other sys-
tems).
Note that Green (ammunition) and Purple
(shields) boxes cannot be destroyed by the Damage
Allocation System [excepting Frame Damage (3E1)].
(7A2) ELEMENTS OF A SHIP DIAGRAM
In the upper left is the empire which built the ship
and the class of ship. Under this is either “squadron
scale” in red or “fleet scale” in blue; one is printed on
each side of each card.
The “national symbol” of the owning race is
proudly displayed on the card, usually in the upper
right.
A line near the top shows the Damage Control
(Repair) rating (5G2).
On the right side is the power track, which can be
ignored if you are using tokens or scratch paper, or
used with paperclips, tokens, or markers if you wish
(1D5).
In the lower left are a column of colored boxes
listing the cost for various movement speeds and func-
tions.
At the lower edge you will find a fractional energy
track (used when recording all energy via the tracks),
and the copyright notice.
The ship cards in Klingon Border are somewhat
more elaborate, including check-off boxes and other
information to facilitate the use of systems (shuttles,
drones, probes) not covered by First Missions.
(7A3) SHIELDS
The shields are colored in two shades of purple
in blocks of five so you can count them quickly. Any
“leftover” points are white. This makes it faster for you
to resolve damage. If you received 7 points of dam-
age on a 14-point shield, just mark one entire group
of five “disabled” and take the other two points out of
the white boxes. The two different shades of purple
are used interchangeably and artistically; there is no
advantage to the dark or lighter purple shades. Purple
is the favorite color of our business manager and she
really likes that we used it for the shields.
(7A4) WEAPONS USED TRACKS
Somewhere on the ship diagram is a row of light-
pink boxes corresponding to the weapons. (Note that
anti-drones and photons have separate, additional,
groups of pink boxes.) These are used during any
given turn to record if a weapon was used (since weap-
ons can fire only once per turn). When you fire a
weapon, mark the appropriate box; erase them at the
end of the turn.
(7A5) BEWARE: ARTIST AT WORK
Many things are done for artistic impression. In
some cases, shields may appear to be “inside” other
shields, but this is just the way the boxes are arranged
and does not mean that damage penetrating one
shield is scored on a few boxes of another. Similarly,
it doesn’t matter if a shield is shown as one, two, or
more rows or columns of boxes; it is the total number
of unchecked boxes which matters.
Note that the various ammunition and record
keeping boxes (shuttles, drone racks, etc.) might be
anywhere on the ship diagram and could be inside or
outside of the shields; this has no effect on how they
work. Shuttle graphics that are inside a ship’s shields
are not protected by those shields.
While efforts were made to put each box some-
where near the physical location on the actual ship,
this isn’t an exact science since the boxes destroyed
by enemy weapons are determined by the Damage
Allocation Charts, not by their location. In many cases,
warp engines are done in blocks of four or five to make
it easier for players to count them.
Standard Small Cargo Freighter.
Tens of thousands of these ships travel the
trade routes of the galaxy. They are
frequent targets of pirates and raiders.
Federation Star Fleet Burke-class frigate.
One-third the size and power of a cruiser,
ships of this type often escort convoys
on the Klingon Border.

(7B) SHIPS USED BY ALL EMPIRES
Freighters and bases are included in Federation
Commander: Klingon Border.
(7C) UNITED FEDERATION OF PLANETS
Known simply as “the Federation”, this empire is
the strongest and most economically aggressive.
Without a few wars to slow them down, the Federation
(due to its booming economy, the result of economic
and cultural freedoms not seen in other Empires)
would make enough profit to buy all the other empires
(in a century or two). The Federation fights only
defensive wars.
Federation Heavy Cruiser (CA): The workhorse
of the Federation, and the most famous ship in sci-
ence-fiction. This is more than just a combat ship, as
it can conduct research, rescue, exploration, etc.
Ship names include: 1700 Constitution, 1701 Enter-
prise, 1702 Farragut, 1704 Yorktown, 1706 Exeter, 1707
Hood, 1708 Intrepid, 1709 Valiant, 1711 Potemkin, 1713
Monitor, 1714 Hornet, 1715 Merimac, 1716 Endeavor, 1717
Defiance, 1718 Excelsior, 1721 Wasp, 1722 El Dorado, 1723
Ari, 1724 Saratoga, 1725 Tori, 1726 Krieger.
(7D) KLINGON EMPIRE
The Klingons are a military dictatorship. With less
territory than the Federation, the Klingons can only
match Star Fleet’s combat power by keeping their ci-
vilians on the brink of poverty. The Klingon govern-
ment is corrupt and paranoid, and legions of secret
police watch for any sign of disloyalty in the military.
Klingon D7 Battlecruiser: The quintessential op-
posing ship for the Federation, the D7 is designed as
a combat ship; exploration and rescue are left to un-
armed auxiliaries.
Names: 14-Anarchist, 22-Annihilation, 34-Antagonist,
24-Attacker, 20-Avenger, 10-Challenger, 23-Chieftain, 4-
Conqueror, 26-Courageous, 6-Crusher, 30-Decimator, 27-
Defiler, 31-Demolisher, 15-Devastator, 5-Devisor, 13-Killer,
1-Klodode, 41-Klothos, 33-Merciless, 16-Nemesis, 44-
Pandemonium, 7-Pitiless, 32-Relentless, 28-Ruthless, 40-
Princess Sangfroid, 19-Savage, 43-Soul of Vengeance, 8-
Thunderchild, 42-Thunderer, 25-Vengeance, 45-
Warhammer.
Abbreviations used on Ship Diagrams:
360: fires in any direction (360°)
AUX: auxiliary control
BTTY: battery
C HULL: center hull
C WARP: center warp engine
C: center hull, center warp engine
DRN: drone rack
EMER: emergency bridge
F HULL: forward hull
FA: forward 120° firing arc (LF+RF)
FH: front hemisphere 180° firing arc
FX: Forward firing arc, expanded to 240°
IKV: Imperial Klingon Vessel
IMP: impulse engines
L WARP: left warp engine
L: left (warp engine), left 60° firing arc
LAB: laboratory
LF: left forward 60° firing arc
LR: left rear 60° firing arc
LS: left side 180° firing arc
PH: phaser
PHOT: photon torpedo
Photon Arming-L: all loading energy present
Photon Arming-P: pre-load energy
PRB: probe launcher
R HULL: rear hull
R WARP: right warp engine
R: rear hull, right (warp engine), or right 60° firing arc
RA: Rear 120° firing arc (RR+LR)
REAC: power reactor
RF: right forward 60° firing arc
RH: rear hemisphere 180° firing arc
RR: right rear 60° firing arc
RS: right side 180° firing arc
RX: Rear Expanded 240° firing arc.
SHTL: shuttlecraft bays
TRAC: tractor beams
TRAN: transporters
USS: United (Federation) Star Ship
WPN: weapon (variable types)
Abbreviations for Ship Classes
BC: Battlecruiser
CA: Literally, Cruiser-Armored,
or Heavy Cruiser
Klingon Border includes several
more Klingon and Federation ships
along with Orion Raiders, Tholian
patrol ships, Kzinti warships,
a base, and freighters.

A scenario is a “battle scene” in which historical
(or typical) forces, missions, and situations are pre-
sented, and players are free to find their own solu-
tions to the problems presented.
Each scenario in Klingon Border is presented in
a standard format, with background, starting forces
and positions, special rules, and mission objectives.
The Victory Conditions are a way to evaluate how
well you achieved the victory. Since most scenarios
in Federation Commander play in less than an hour,
players might wish to adopt the concept of playing
each scenario twice in a single session (e.g., evening)
exchanging sides between the two battles.
For your First Missions we need only concern
ourselves with one scenario — the classic duel, but
we do briefly outline a second, a convoy battle.
(8A) THE MAP
Fixed Map: The map does not change after it is
initially set up. Any ship which moves off of the map
has left the area, meaning he has lost the battle.
Floating Map: If a running battle heads for the
edge of the map, the unused panels can be “leap-
frogged” in front of the battle. Alternatively, if ships
seem to all be moving in a general direction, just move
every counter on the map a convenient number of
hexes in the opposite direction.
Numbers: Note that each hex has a number.
These are used in setting up scenarios to define
places to put ships into their starting positions.
The panel on page 31 has letters in the six hexes
surrounding hex 62. This is a “gaming rosette” used
to indicate facing during scenario set up. A ship
assigned to “Hex 35 facing D” would be placed in hex
35 facing in the same direction that a ship in hex 62
would be facing if it was facing the large D in hex 63,
which means of course that the ship in hex 35 would
be facing hex 36.
(8B2) VICTORY SYSTEM
During the game, points are scored for causing
damage to enemy ships as follows:
For scoring internal damage = 10 points
Forcing a ship to disengage = 25 points
Crippling the enemy ship = 50 points
Destroying the enemy ship = 100 points
Crippling is defined as causing internal damage equal
to one-half of all boxes (not counting boxes repaired
before the end of the scenario). The player with the
most points wins. If there is a tie, the player with the
fewest disabled boxes (not counting shields) wins.
(8D) THE DUEL
Two rival empires wish to control a given region
of space, perhaps because there are vital resources
here, or because the area provides access to other
areas. The objective is to “maintain a presence” in
the sector, establishing your claim to it (or at least
your right to be in it). Such duels happen for any num-
ber of reasons. During wartime, one ship may be pa-
trolling a sector to prevent the enemy from sending
ships through it (while the enemy wants to open up a
gap in the patrol screen in order to send raiding forces
into your territory). In cases where borders are not
set by bilateral treaties, just who controls a given area
is determined by who can send (and keep) a ship on
patrol there.
(8D1) NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Two, usually from two different empires but civil
wars do happen in the Klingon Empire.
(8D2) INITIAL SET UP
Each player has one ship (or, if you wish, two or
three ships). Start one ship in one corner of the map,
and the other ship in the opposite corner. The sce-
nario can be used with a “floating” or “fixed” map.
(8D3) OBJECTIVE
Mission: Your mission is to force the other ship
to leave this disputed area, that is, to move off of the
map. You can destroy his ship if you have to.
Time Limit: This scenario has a limit of ten turns;
by the start of the eleventh turn, both sides will have
sent reinforcements to the scene, turning it either into
a standoff or a larger battle. If the enemy arrives to
find that you have already “won” control over the area
and have more forces at hand, they are likely to with-
draw (at least for now).
Victory: Score more points than the enemy!
(8D4) SPECIAL RULES
None for your First Missions.
In Federation Commander: Klingon Border some
of the complications of a duel include civilians to res-
cue from a planet, the need to gain scientific informa-
tion about an object or planet, space monsters, etc.
The larger number of ships in Federation Com-
mander: Klingon Border allows players to experiment
with two smaller ships against one larger ship, battles
with entire fleets of a dozen ships, and other situa-
tions.
(8E) THE IRIDIMA CONVOY
Iridima is a small planet rich in Iridium, a rare metal
used in the construction of starships. The Federation
and Klingons both go to great lengths to control the
Iridima market. To simulate a convoy battle, place four
“freighters” on the map. Each moves at a speed of 16
in direction A (toward the Federation) and does not
turn, accelerate, decelerate, or do anything else. Each
is destroyed by 50 damage points. If two or more ships
each move 60 hexes, the Federation wins. If not, the
Klingons win.

Acceleration ............................ 2B2a
Anti-Drones ................................. 4E
Armor ........................................ 3D1
Automatic Disengagement ...... 2E1a
Auxiliary Control ........................ 5A1
Base Rotation ........................... 2C6
Baseline Speed ............... 2A1, 2B1b
Baseline Speed, during Energy
Allocation ........................... 1E1
Batteries .................................... 1D4
Blocked Targets............... 4A3, 6A1d
Braking Power ......................... 2C5b
Breakdown .............................. 2D2b
Bridge ........................................ 5A1
Burning Through Shields........... 3C8
Capturing a Ship ............... 3E2, 5F2
Cargo .......................................... 5K
Changing Speed ....................... 2B2
Combat Operations ..................... 3A
Combat...........................................3
Control of Seeking
Weapons ................ 4F2e, 4F5e
Control Systems .......................... 5A
Damage Allocation Charts ........ 3D3
Damage Allocation ...................... 3D
Damage Caused by Drones ...... 4G4
Damage Control Rating ............ 5G1
Damage Records ...................... 3D5
Deceleration ............................ 2B2b
Defensive Fire Phase .............. 1E2c
Destroying Drones .................... 4G4
Direct Fire Weapons ........... 3A1, 4A
Directed Targeting ..................... 3D4
Direction .................................. 2A3b
Discharging Weapons ............. 4C3d
Disengagement ........................... 2E
Disruptors .................................... 4D
Disruptors, Overloaded ........... 4D2b
Disruptors, Range Limits ......... 4D1d
Docking ................................... 2D5a
Drone Racks .................... 4G2, 4G8
Drones...............................4F1a, 4G
Drones, destroying .................... 4G4
Drones, Warhead size ............... 4G4
Dropping Shields ....................... 3C2
Emergency Bridge .................... 5A1
Emergency Deceleration ........... 2D3
Emergency Evacuation ............. 5E7
End of Turn ............................... 1E3
Endurance .......................4F2d, 4G6
Energy Allocation ........................ 1D
Energy Cost of Movement .......... 2B
Energy Points ............................ 1D1
Energy Tokens ................. 1D1, 1D5
Evasive Maneuvering ................ 2D4
Facing ....................................... 2A4
Federation Drone/Anti-Drone
Racks ...................... 4E1e, 4G9
Federation, United, of Planets .... 7C
Firing Arcs ................................... 3B
Flag Bridge ................................ 5A1
Fleet Scale Movement Cost .... 2B1b
Fleet Scale ......................... 1C, 5C2
Frame Damage ................... 3E1, 5J
Friendly Fire .............................. 3A3
Hexes ........................................ 2A2
High Energy Turns .......... 2D2, 4F3e
Holding armed weapons 4C2b, 4C3c
How Ships Are Lost ..................... 3E
Hull .............................................. 5J
Impulse (part of the turn) ........... 1E2
Information Points .............5B3, 5C3
Klingon Empire ............................ 7D
Kzinti Hegemony ......................... 7F
Laboratories ................................ 5B
Landing ................................... 2D5b
Launch Phase .......................... 1E2f
Launch ..............................4F2, 4G7
Loss of control ........................... 5A2
Map Scale ................................. 2A2
Map, Leaving the ...................... 2E2
Marine Combat Phase ............ 1E3b
Marine Raids ............................. 5F1
Marines ....................................... 5F
Maximum Speed ..................... 2A3d
Momentum, there isn’t any ....... 2A3f
More than one ship per hex .... 2A3e
Movement ......................................2
Movement Cost, Fleet Scale ... 2B1b
Movement in Reverse ............. 2B1c
Movement Phase .................... 1E2b
Movement Points .................... 2B1a
Movement Sub-Pulse .............. 1E2b
Movement, Energy cost of .......... 2B
Movement, Forward ................ 2A3c
Movement, Performing .............. 2A6
Moving in Reverse .................... 2C5
Non-Moving Units ................... 2B1d
Offensive Fire Phase............... 1E2d
Optional Weapons......................5L1
Order of Precedence ....... 2A5, 4F3b
Orion Engine Output ..................5L3
Orion Pirates ......................... 7E, 5L
Other Functions Phase ........... 1E2e
Overloaded Weapons
...................... 4C3, 4D2b, 4E1c
Performing Movement ............... 2A6
Phasers ....................................... 4B
Photon Torpedoes ....................... 4C
Photon Torpedoes, Firing .......... 4C4
Photon Torpedoes,
Holding ...................4C2b, 4C3c
Photon Torpedoes,
Overloaded ........................ 4C3
Plasma Torpedoes .............4F1d, 4J
Pre-Game Arming ................... 4C2b
Pre-loading weapons, during
Energy Allocation ............... 1E1
Probes as Weapons .................. 5C4
Probes ......................................... 5C
Proportional Movement ........... 2A3a
Pulse Speed .............................. 2A1
Raids ......................................... 5F1
Raising Shields ......................... 3C2
Ramming, not allowed ............ 2A3g
Range (to target) ....................... 3A5
Regenerating Shields ................ 3C7
Reinforcing Shields ................... 3C5
Reloading, via repair
rules .......................... 5C5, 5G5
Repair Cost ............................... 5G3
Repair Phase .......................... 1E3a
Repair Points ............................ 5G2
Repairs ........................................ 5G
Resetting Turn Modes ............. 2C3c
Reverse Movement ......... 2B1c, 2C5
Same Hex Combat ........ 4F2c, 3C6d
Scenarios .......................................8
Seeking Weapon Impact ........... 4F4
Seeking Weapon Movement ... 4F3d
Seeking Weapons ............... 3A2, 4F
Self-Destruction......................... 3E3
Separation ............................... 2E1b
Shield Burn Through ................. 3C8
Shield Regeneration ................. 3C7
Shield Regeneration, during
Energy Allocation ............... 1E1
Shield Reinforcement ................ 3C5
Shields ........................................ 3C
Shields, Damage to ................... 3C4
Shields, raising or dropping ...... 3C2
Shields, Which Was Hit ... 3C6, 4F4c
Ships ..............................................7
Shuttlecraft .................................. 5H
Shuttlecraft, Repair of ............... 5G6
Sideslips .................................... 2C4
Simultaneous Decision Rule ..... 1E4
Skipped Damage Points ........... 3D3
Special Maneuvers ..................... 2D
Speed Change Phase ............. 1E2a
Speed of seeking weapons ....... 4F3
Stacking .................................. 2A3e
Stacking, firing limit from
stacks ................................. 4A3
Stealth Coating ..........................5L2
Stopped ..................................... 2C7
Sub-Pulse................................ 1E2b
Suicide Freighters ............. 4F1c, 4H
Suicide Shuttlecraft ......... 4F1b, 5H6
Systems .........................................5
Tactical Maneuvers ................... 2D1
Target Enemy Engines .............. 3D4
Target Enemy Weapons ............ 3D4
Tholian Holdfast .......................... 7G
Tractor Auctions ...................... 5D6a
Tractor Beams................... 5D, 4F5d
Tractor Beams, Defensive......... 5D4
Tractor Beams, power used ...... 5D2
Tractoring Ships ........................ 5D6
Transporters ................................ 5E
Transporters, power used ......... 5E2
Turn Mode Category ............... 2C2a
Turn Modes ............................... 2C2
Turn Modes, Resetting ............ 2C3c
Turn, game turn ........................... 1E
Turning, a ship .......................... 2C1
United Federation of Planets ...... 7C
Units that do not Move ............ 2B1d
Volley, definition ........................ 3A4
Weapons Records................... 1E3c
Weapons ............................... 4, 5C4
Which Shield Was Hit...... 3C6, 4F4c

Counters
1/4

PHOT-FA
PH-1-FH
BRDG
IMP
REAC
BTTY
SHTL
RIGHT
LEFT
PH-1
PH-1
LAB
EMER
TRAC
DRN
LF
RF
HEAVY CRUISER
FLEET SCALE
SHIELD #1
POWER
TRACK
SHIELD #4
#3
#2
#5
#6
TURN MODE D
MOVE COST 1/2
BASE SPEED 8
TURN MODE 2
SPEED COST 4
BASE SPEED 16
TURN MODE 4
SPEED COST 8
BASE SPEED 24
TURN MODE 5
SPEED COST 12
ACCELERATION
DECELERATION
DAMAGE CONTROL: 2
FEDERATION COMMANDER: FIRST MISSIONS
Copyright © 2006 Amarillo Design Bureau, Inc.
FRACTIONAL POWER
0 1/2
PH-3 PH-1
RH
Z
PHOTON
ARMING
A B
+4 +4
+8 +8
WEAPONS
USED
PH-1-FX
BRDG
IMP
REAC
BTTY
SHTL
RIGHT
LEFT
LAB
EMER
DRN
L+LR
RR+R
0 1 2 3 4
KLINGON D7
BATTLE
CRUISER
FLEET SCALE
SHIELD #1
POWER
TRACK
SHIELD #4
#3
#2
#5
#6
TURN MODE B
MOVE COST 1/2
BASE SPEED 8
TURN MODE 2
SPEED COST 4
BASE SPEED 16
TURN MODE 3
SPEED COST 8
BASE SPEED 24
TURN MODE 4
SPEED COST 12
COMMANDER:
Copyright © 2006
Amarillo Design
Bureau, Inc.
ACCELERATION
DECELERATION
FA
DISR
FA
DISR
ADD
FRACTIONAL POWER
0 1/2
Z
360°
TRAC
DAMAGE
CONTROL: 2
WEAPONS
USED
A B

© 2005
ADB INC.

(1F) TABLETOP RULES
Federation Commander can be played with the
counters provided or with “miniature” spaceships
(plastic or metal models a few inches long). The
Starline 2400 miniatures are specially commissioned
in 1/3788 scale for use with this game.
The tabletop rules are primarily intended to leave
the rules from Federation Commander intact, but to
adapt them to the use of miniatures. These minia-
tures can be used in one of two ways. The easiest is
to use large hex maps (at least 1.25" hexes) to ac-
commodate the miniatures. If you choose this sys-
tem, you can dispense with the remainder of (1F) and
simply play Federation Commander with the maps
provided.
The alternative is to use a blank tabletop. (Floors
are workable but care must be taken to avoid step-
ping on ships.) Such a surface does not have a hex
grid. There are two major changes to be made, both
of which result from discarding the hex field. Ship lo-
cation, and hence movement, is based on a point (the
center of the stand or counter) and a heading (the
direction that the miniature ship is pointing), rather
than on a hex and a facing. Shields and weapons
firing arcs remain the same in relation to the ship (60°
arcs), but are now based on the actual heading of the
ship, and not the arbitrary hex grid.
(1F1) STARSHIPS
Each ship (or other unit) should be identified as
an individual for reference to its respective Ship Dia-
gram. This can be done by attaching a small piece of
paper with a name or number, or by painting the spe-
cific name or number directly on the ship or the base/
stand.
Mount each ship on its stand with a flat edge to
the front and pointed corners to each side. The “head-
ing” of the ship is considered to be straight ahead.
Use one of the round “shield and firing arc diagrams”
placed under the stand or counter to help you determine
the shield and firing arcs.
(1F2) MOVEMENT
For purposes of movement, the hex grid system
is replaced by an unmarked surface, a series of turn
gauges, and a ruler or measuring tape. Eliminating
the hex grid immediately complicates movement, but
the advantages of a “free” movement system may
equal or even outweigh its disadvantages. This is a
matter of personal taste (some players are “lost” with-
out the regularity of hexes) and what you are used to.
Players will find an entirely new set of tactics are
required. On a hex grid, some ships must “wiggle” a
full 60° to bring all of their weapons to bear. With the
“free” movement of miniatures, a turn of a few de-
grees may be enough. This is obviously more realis-
tic, and obviously more trouble.
You will need several items of game equipment
to use the miniatures movement system. These in-
clude a set of turn gauges (which are included; please
cut them out carefully) and a ruler or measuring tape.
You may also find use for a long straightedge or a
few feet of string or thread.
You must decide what scale you will use for your
miniatures gaming; that is, you must decide how many
inches of your clear table will be equal to 10,000 kilo-
meters (one hex of the boardgame). A scale equal to
that of the miniatures (1/3788) is out of the question,
since each hex would be over a mile and a half across.
(Putting a 3-inch Federation CA in a 1.5-mile hex does
give you some idea of the incredible scale of space
combat.) To use the Starline 2400 miniatures, a mini-
mum scale of 1" = 10,000 kilometers = 1 hex is nec-
essary. Thus, to represent the area of the 5/8” hex
boardgame map would take an area just about the
size of a dinner table. Should the battle begin to “wan-
der” off of the side of the table, move all ships the
same distance in any safe direction.
A movement gauge (provided) is made from a
simple straight piece of cardstock marked off at 1"
intervals. To move, simply align the gauge line on the
pointed side corners of the black miniatures stand
base with one of the marks on the movement gauge
or one of the turn gauges. Then, keeping the gauge
in place, move the ship so that the gauge line aligns
with the next mark on the gauge.
When turning, select the turn gauge equal to your
turn mode at your current speed. Align one of the
marks on its outer radius (the heavy black line) with
the side of your ship (the side corner of the black plas-
tic stand base), and then, holding the gauge in place,
move the ship along the gauge so that this shield
boundary line aligns with the next mark.
Note that the “turn mode” function in the
boardgame is used to approximate circles of different
sizes. Since miniatures use true circles, it is not nec-
essary to move any “straight” increments between
successive “turn” increments (although you may if you
wish). You may use a larger turn gauge than required,
but never a smaller one. When moving or turning, your
“true” location is the exact center of the stand.
If you skip a movement impulse (2B2b), leave the
ship where it is but rotate it so the cross-section line

is parallel to the next turn increment line.
Turn gauges for the 1” scale are provided with in
on page 34.
(1F3) COMBAT
To determine which weapons bear on the target,
run a string or straightedge between the stand posts
from the firing ship to the target ship, and observe
which firing and shield arcs the line crosses. Remem-
ber to use the center of the base, not the weapon on
the miniature. To determine range, measure the dis-
tance between the stand posts of each ship.
If using a tape measure, you will have to divide
the inches by your scale to convert to increments.
Round fractions of .500 up, and those of .499 down.
Players may find it easier to make a special “range
stick” marked directly in their increments or to find an
old fashioned yardstick. Either method will give you
the range in increments, which can be entered on the
game’s various combat charts directly.
Shuttles docking at their home ship and seeking-
weapons reaching their targets must be able to actu-
ally reach the center of the target ship’s stand or
counter.
(1F4) SMALL UNITS
Shuttles, fighters, drones, plasma torpedoes, etc.,
operate using the same principles as ships.
Until miniatures for seeking-weapons and shuttles
are made available, players will have to make do with
substitutes, counters being suitable and immediately
available.
(1F5) TERRAIN
Many players have shown great creativity in cre-
ating terrain for use with miniatures. Styrofoam balls
can be used for planets, as could paper cutouts. Some
players have found plastic toys which are a good
match for some of the monsters.
(1F6) STARLINE 2400 MINIATURES
Countless ages ago, Lou Zocchi created a series of
plastic ships based on the Franz Joseph Technical Manual.
Many years later, expert sculptor Richard Kerr began cre-
ating matching ships for other races of the Star Fleet Uni-
verse. Over time, many companies have produced minia-
tures which varied widely in price, quality, availability,
scale, and authenticity.
The current Starline 2400 range includes well over
100 different ships for the Federation, Klingons, Ro-
mulans, Kzintis, Gorns, Tholians, Orions, and other
races of the Star Fleet Universe. See
www.starfleetgames.com/minis
for more information about this range of pewter
starships. We add new ships every few months.
Squadron Boxes #1-#3 are specifically designed
to provide you with one of each ship in Klingon Bor-
der, and Border Box #1 has even more of them.

STAR FLEET 2400
© 2001 AMARILLO DESIGN BUREAU, Inc.