Introduction
 
Using their mice as bait, players attempt to capture Felicity, the coveted cat in the sack. 
During each game round, the player willing to release the most mice will claim ownership 
of all cats in the sack. Players can try to bluff one another by selecting which cats, both good 
and bad, are placed in the sack. For added chaos, players may place other pets, including 
dogs which will create total madness. At the end of the game, the player’s most valuable
collection of cats along with their remaining mice will reward positive points, while possessing
the scruffiest cats will count against their final score.
 
 • 50 Pet Cards (5 sets with cats: -8, -5, 3, 5, 8, 11, 15, rabbit: 0, dogs: large, small)
 
	 • 4 Mouse Cards (2, 3, 4, 6) 	 	
 • 1 Cat in the Sack Card
 
 • 1 Start Player Marker • 76 Mice Money (68 x black worth 1, 8 x green worth 5)
The Cat in the Sack

Preparation
The following are the game preparation and rules for 4 and 5 players. The modifications 
for 3 players are located at the end of the rules.
Each player takes a set of 10 Pet Cards in their player color. Each player selects one Pet Card
at random from the player to their right and discards it unseen back into the box. 
 
Additionally, each player takes 15 Mice Money (1 x 5 and 10 x 1).
 Use the remaining Mice Money to create the bank: 33 Mice Money for 5 players and
27 Mice Money for 4 players. Return the rest of the Mice Money to the box.
 
Place the Mouse Cards in a row in numerical order on the table in easy view and reach 
of all players. In games with 4 players, the »3« Mouse is not used and should be returned 
to the box. Place the Cat in the Sack Card to the left of the »2« Mouse Card.
 Now place Mice Money from the bank on the Mouse Cards equal to the number on 
each card Mouse Card (e.g. 6 Mice Money on the »6« Mouse Card). 
Return unclaimed player color Pet Cards to the box (i.e. the 5th player set in a 4 player game).
Choose a starting player who takes the Start Player Marker.
Playing the Game
The game runs for 9 rounds. In each round, a group of face down Pet Cards (the »cats 
in the sack«) are auctioned off to the players. 

Beginning with the start player, and then continuing clockwise with all other players, 
each player selects any one of their Pet Cards, which they place face down in the middle of 
the table. The start player positions their face down Pet Card under the Cat in the Sack Card. 
Creating a row of Pet Cards, the next player positions their face down Pet Card to the right 
of the start player’s Pet Card under the »2« Mouse Card, etc. This row represents the 
»cats in the sack«, which are available to be claimed by the players.
With four players, the game setup should look as follows: 
After all players have each placed one Pet Card, the start player turns over his Pet Card
(the first Pet Card in the row). The start player begins the auction by bidding any amount 
of Mice Money (not 0) and placing this amount on the table in front of them, or they may 
pass. The next player in turn order must now bid more Mice Money or pass. 
start player player 2
player 3
player 4

If the bid returns to a player who has already bid, they must increase their bid by adding 
more Mice Money or pass.
 
Whenever a player passes, they take back all the Mice Money they have bid so far this 
round and claim the Mice Money from the lowest valued Mouse Card still in the 
row. The passing player cannot bid any more in this round. 
	 Example: the player who is first to pass in each round takes his bid back and the 
	 Mice Money that is on the »2« Mouse Card.
	
	
Each time a player passes, the players reveal the next left-most Pet Card from the 
cats in the sack row, so that the players have more information to help them decide 
whether they want to continue to bid on the sack. 
When all the Pet Cards are turned over, there will be only one player who has not 
passed. That player pays their bid to the bank and claims the contents of the 
cats in the sack (all Pet Cards in the row). If exactly one dog was in the face up row 
of Pet Cards, it will scare one cat away. If the large dog was in the row, the highest 
positive value cat and this dog are returned to the box. If the small dog was in the 
row, the highest negative value cat and this dog are returned to the box. If more 
than one dog of any type was in the row, they are all returned to the box.
The player places all remaining claimed Pet Cards separately from the Pet Cards 
in their hand and also takes the Start Player Marker.
 

	
Example: the small dog chases the »-5« cat away and the player receives 11 points. With 	
	
a large dog, the player would receive -5 points, as the dog would chase the »11« cat away.
 	 Note: with more than one dog in the row, the dogs create their own mischief amongst 	
	
themselves without effect on the cats and are returned to the box. This also occurs if 	
	
small and large dogs are together in the row.
Finally, the Mouse Cards are filled again with the appropriate amount of Mice Money and 
the second round begins with a new selection of Pet Cards and auction, according to the 
rules above. All further rounds run the same way.
Game End and Scoring
The game ends after the ninth auction, when all players have played all Pet Cards from 
their starting hand. The last winning bid must still be paid to the bank and the winning 
player takes the Pet Cards from the row as in the other rounds.
Now all players add the points on the cats they won at auction (the yellow numbers 
are positive and the red numbers are negative). To this, they add the Mice Money they 

have left (each Mice Money is worth 1 point). The rabbits are worth nothing and the dogs 
are out of the game.
The player with the most points is the winner!
In the case of a tie, the player with most Pet Card points is the winner.
Rules for 3 players
Use only the »3« and »6« Mouse Cards. Place the Cat in the Sack Card to the left of the
»3« Mouse Card. Place Mice Money worth 21 in the bank. Return the rest of the Mice Money
to the box.
Take a fourth card set and shuffle it face down. Remove one Pet Card randomly and 
place it back in the box without looking at it. Now place the fourth card set, as a dummy 
player, face down below the Cat in the Sack Card.
dummy 
start 

At the beginning of the auction, before the start player begins bidding, turn over 
the top-most Pet Card of the dummy player.
After a player passes, the Pet Card of the start player is turned over, so that the two 
remaining players will see two face up and two face down Pet Cards. When there is 
just one player left, turn over the last two face down Pet Cards in the row.
Special Cases 
•	 If at the beginning of the auction, all players but the last player pass, turn over 	
	
the last Pet Card (with 3 players, the last two Pet Cards will be revealed). The last 	
	
player can now see the entire row of Pet Cards and may buy all remaining cats 	
	
in the row for 1 Mice Money after resolving all dog interactions.
•	 If the last player also passes, remove all Pet Cards from the row and begin a new 	
	
round with the same start player. The next round is played with no Mice Money 	
	
added to the Mouse Cards.
•	 If a large dog chases a cat from the row and there are no positive value cats in the 	
	
row, instead it chases the highest-valued negative cat from the row (e.g. the »-5« and 	
	
not the »-8«). If a small dog chases a cat from the row and there are no negative 	
	
value cats in the row, it chases the lowest-valued positive cat from the row.
• 	 Players may make change with their Mice Money and the bank at any time.	
	

• 	 If, at the end of a round, there is not enough Mice Money in the bank to distribute 	
	
Mice Money on all the Mouse Cards, no Mice Money is placed on the Mouse Cards
	
at all. In this round, only the player winning the auction gets something: the cats in 	
	
the row. All players who pass, receive no Mice Money from the Mouse Cards.
•	 Players keep their Mice Money secret during the game.
A Tactical Note	 	
	
	
	
	
	
The last player to pass each round will receive the Mice Money on the »6« Mouse Card. 
This can often be worthwhile as it allows a player to have cash they may need for a later 
auction. Additionally, these 6 Mice Money are also worth 6 points. If a player spends all 
their remaining Mice Money on an auction, they must pass immediately on the next 
auction and will probably receive only 2 Mice Money. Thus, this is likely not a good idea. 
If all players (except one) bid high amounts throughout the game, that player could win 
without ever winning an auction.
Author: Friedemann Friese
Graphics & Layout: Maura Kalusky
Production: Henning Kröpke
Rules Editor: Paul M. Incao
Rules Proofreaders: Anne Incao, T.R. Knight
© 2017, Stronghold Games, All Rights Reserved
FOLLOW us on Twitter: @Stronghold Games
LIKE us on Facebook: Facebook.com/Stronghold Games
Stronghold Games LLC
17 Sunflower Road
Somerset, NJ 08873 USA
www.strongholdgames.com
info@strongholdgames.com