Blimey! You and your blokes have been unfairly
banished and stripped of everything but a few
shillings and table scraps. Undaunted, you
journey to a strange land to reclaim your honor.
Under the steely gaze of her majesty, Queen
Anne, you must chart your path to fame and
glory. Will you farm the earth, fight as knights
or finagle your own feudums?*
The Bits
Whatever your fate, one thing is clear: Medieval
life is not a bowl of cherry tarts. Fertile land is
scarce, food is dwindling, and fanciful creatures
fancy you for dinner!
Luckily, not everything feudal is (ahem)…futile. If
you seize control of the local guilds, you could
become most venerated in the kingdom.
* In case your medieval Latin is rusty, a feudum is a
 fiefdom—land granted by a feudal lord!
9 Vessels
3 per kind
30 Saltpeter Goods
1 Game Board
15 Pawns
3 in each of 5 player colors
20 Player Discs/Reeves
4 in each of 5 player colors
100 Influence Markers
20 in each of 5 player colors
24 Region/Landscape Tiles
44 Location Discs
outposts, farms, towns and feudums
17 King’s Seals/Rosary Beads
12 Archery Targets
1 Epoch Marker
1 Starting Player Marker
50 Silver and Gold Shillings
43 silver “1s” and 7 gold “5s”
1 Progress Die
1 Haversack
2 Monsters
1 behemoth, 1 sea serpent
3 Rulebooks, 15 Reference Cards, 
(German, French and English)
Round of Play
1. Take Actions
2. Nourish Pawns
3. Roll Progress Die
4. Advance Epoch Marker & Score Epoch (if triggered)
 • Score guilds, landscapes & active regions
 • Subtract vp for disloyalty (epochs II, IV, V only)
 • Replenish landscapes
 • Replenish map (epochs II, III, IV only)
 • Replenish guilds (epoch III only)
5. End Round/Game & Final Scoring
AttAck & Defense
• Pawns: +1 attack, +2 defense (0 on wine)
• Monsters: +1 attack, +1 defense
• Saltpeter: +1 attack (knight unlimited)
• Weapons: +1 or +2 attack
• Feudum: +2 defense (feudum attacks)
• Defending Subject: +1 defense (feudum attacks)
• Rebelling Serf: +1 attack (feudum attacks)
Goods summary
 Saltpeter: extra action, +1 attack, déjà vu
 Sulfur: sequential action, nourish pawns, feast
 Iron: improve to town, shovels & swords
 Wood: improve to farm, tend landscape
 Food: nourish pawns, royal immunity
 Region tile: good of choice
Tax: If you rule a town, collect 2 shillings.
Reinforcements: Knight in play earns
you 1 influence marker.
Conquer: If you are next to a pawn or feudum,
add up attack and defense per chart to resolve
conflict. Starve the People: Noble in play
may remove a subject or serf.
Defend: If attacked, you may flip card
over out of turn to add +1 to your defense.
Royal Immunity: Turn in food to nullify
starve the people and receive king’s seal.
Repeat: Replay any action card marked with
“x2.” Déjà Vu: Turn in a saltpeter to
replay any action card except for conquer
and defense.
Guild: Perform trade, pull or push function
(See reverse). Feast: Turn in barrel sulfur to
perform the push/pull function of any pawn or
feudum you are beside.
Migrate: Add/remove pawn to/from board. 
Distant Kin: Alchemist in play lets you 
migrate to starting locations.
Move: Move 1 space times number of your
pawns on board. Pilfer once at end of
action. Godspeed: Monk in play may
travel +1 space at end of action.
Influence: Add 1 influence marker to
each location with your pawn. Money is
Influence: Merchant in play may
pay 1 shilling to unseat a lone ruler.
Improve: If you rule a location, turn in
required resource to improve it. Tend
Landscape: Turn in wood to place
landscape with serf.
Explore: If you rule an outpost, draw 2
Royal Writ cards and keep 1. Shovels &
Swords: Turn in iron to draw 2 more
cards and keep 1.
Harvest: If you rule a farm, add 5 goods
to farm. If kickbacks taken, flip beads
to seals. Inspect the Harvest:
Farmer in play may view
kickback options.
55 Action Cards
11 in each of 5 player colors
16 Royal Writ Cards
5 Player Pouches
1 in each of 5 player colors
30 Sulfur Goods
30 Iron Goods
30 Wood Goods
50 Food Goods

The Board
King Daniel’s dominion is divided into 6 regions (sea, island, 
forest, desert, badlands and mountain) and flanked by 6
medieval guilds (Farmer, Merchant, Alchemist, Knight, Noble 
and Monk). 
The board also features 22 spaces for location discs (outposts, 
farms, towns and feudums) and a host of other functional 
areas relevant to gameplay.
Region Tile Chart
Epic Voyage Track
Scoring Track
Guild
Region/Landscape Tiles
Wine Barrels
Island Region (Big Islands)
Sea Region
(Small Islands)
Desert Region
Badlands 
Region
Mountain 
Region
Forest Region
Ferryboat Route
Military Service Track
Trade
Pull
Push
Guild Track

Setup
Place the board in the middle of the table. Each player 
selects a color and puts the following into his personal 
supply: 3 pawns, 4 player discs/reeves, 11 action cards, 7 
influence markers, 7 food, 7 shillings, 1 player pouch and 
1 reference card 1 . Each player places his blank player 
disc 2 on the scoring track.
Now, create a general supply of resources as follows: 
Place the vessels 3 near the Alchemist Guild. Place the 
influence markers and monsters 4 near the Knight Guild. 
Place the king’s seals/rosary beads 5 near the Noble 
Guild. Place the shillings and archery targets 6 near
the board.
Shuffle the Royal Writ cards 7 and put them
facedown. Create six stacks of region tiles 8 
in descending order. Remove the double-sided location 
discs including the 12 feudums 9 and put them in the
general supply. Shuffle the remaining locations 10 and 
place the ones marked with a circle on the starting spaces 
circled in pink, and the others on the remaining map spaces. 
Finally, turn all the location discs face up.
Place goods into the Merchant Guild 11 as shown, leaving 
the last space in the saltpeter and sulfur rows empty. Place 
goods into the Alchemist Guild 12 as shown, leaving 2 
spaces in the food cart and 2 in the the sulfur bowl empty. 
Also, randomly draw 2 vessels and place them in the guild. 
Put the rest of the goods into the haversack 13 . From the 
general supply, place 2 influence markers per player in the 
Knight Guild 14 as shown. If there are fewer than 4 players, 
add “dummy” rows so there are at least 4 colors in play.

Advanced rules appear in these nifty little scrolls.
Shuffle all 17 king’s seals (red side up) and draw 4 to place
on the scrolls in the Noble Guild 15 as shown. Draw 4
more and flip to reveal rosary beads and put them in the 
Monk Guild 16 on the rosary. Draw 1 more and flip to reveal 
a rosary bead and place it atop a chicken in the Farmer
Guild 17 . Randomly draw 10 goods from the haversack
and put them in the barn in the Farmer Guild.
Place the epoch marker 18 on the epoch I space (the first
sunray). Randomly select 6 goods 19 from the haversack
and place 1 in each region beside the location featuring
the letter “N”. Randomly select a starting player and give
him the starting player marker and the progress die 20 . 
In turn order, each player selects 3 different goods
of his choice from the haversack. If a player chooses
a sulfur good, he must decide whether to put it into
his wine barrel (it helps nourish your pawns) or into his 
personal supply (It lets you play two actions in a row). 
More on that later!
In turn order, select a character icon on one of your
pawns and position it face up beside one of the 6
starting locations circled in pink. Immediately place an 
influence marker from your personal supply onto the 5 vp 
hexagon in the guild bearing the same icon as your pawn. If 
the hexagon is occupied, place it on the 3 vp hexagon. You 
are now ready to play the basic or advanced game.

Playing the Game
The object of Feudum is to be the “most venerated in all 
the land.” Less loftily put, players try to score the most 
veneration points (vp) over 5 epochs — typically 7-10 
rounds. Each round, players use action cards to move 
pawns, influence locations, interact with guilds and a slew 
of other things.
During the game, you will secure
membership status in different guilds 
by putting pawns and/or feudums into 
play. You will also race to rule
locations, as this reinforces
your guild status, and unlocks
additional actions. Latecomers
must settle for serfdom—but this
can be advantageous!
Players who hurry to improve
locations in each region are rewarded
immediate vp and valuable region tiles!
Tiles can be traded for any good, or used by 
your serfs to tend landscapes. As tiles are drawn, the dawn 
of each epoch is triggered and vp are scored for status in 
the guilds, landscapes tended and regions in which
you are active.
If you are ambitious, you may acquire a feudum to
become a vassal and increase your guild status
immensely. However, you then must pay homage to the king 
by conquering opponents throughout the game to avoid 
negative vp for disloyalty.
All players may trade with guilds to get the 
resources they need. However, only guild 
members may move goods from guild to 
guild in return for immediate vp! You may 
decide to thwart the flow of goods, but
be warned, a player could throw
you a “feast” and perform your 
guild powers while
you are incapacitated.
When one region tile
stack is empty the game
ends and final vp (such
as Royal Writs) are scored.
The paths to victory are many! Will you rule
locations or humbly tend landscapes? Be a dutiful vassal or 
avoid royal obligations? Fortify your feudums or expand your 
kingdom? Rest assured, your foresight and finesse will prove 
fruitful. Unless you are unwittingly bludgeoned by a lumber­
ing behemoth. Long live the king!
Playing a Round 
Each epoch is made up of 1 or more rounds. Each round 
consists of 5 steps, briefly described here:
Step 1: Take Actions
All players secretly select 4 out of their 11
action cards. Then, each player executes
them one at a time in turn order.
Step 2: Nourish Pawns
All players must sustain pawns on the board
with food and/or wine.
Step 3: Roll Progress Die
Roll the progress die to determine a region
tile to remove.
Step 4: Advance Epoch Marker & Score Epoch
(If Triggered)
If a new epoch is triggered, advance the epoch marker, score 
veneration points and replenish the board with resources as 
directed. Otherwise go to Step 5.
Step 5: End Round or End Game & Final Scoring
Pass the starting player marker clockwise and begin a
new round. If epoch 5 was triggered during the round,
the game is over. After scoring the epoch, perform
final scoring.

Step 1: Take Actions
All players secretly choose 4 action cards from their decks 
to create a hand for the round. Unselected cards are set 
aside. When everyone is ready, the 
starting player plays 1 card face up
and carries out the action. Play
continues clockwise, one card at a 
time, until all players have played all
of their chosen cards.
Regular Action
Any player may perform the regular
action depicted on the top section of
the card.
Card Symbols
The following symbols appear on some action cards and
denote the following:
 This card may be played again by using the repeat
 action card later that same round.
 This card may not be played again in the same round 
 even if the repeat action card is played. 
 This card may not be the last card you reveal this round. 
 Perform the regular action or the special ability, but
 not both. 
 Score veneration points (vp).
Long Live the King
If you wish, you may wait to see if anyone before you in 
turn order has placed a saltpeter or sulfur onto his player 
pouch before you finalize your card selections. When
a player makes his selections, he must announce, “Long 
live the king.” Once this is uttered, a player may not 
change his selections.
Protect thy cards from ruin with 
71 clear “Standard European” 
sleeves (59 x 92 mm).
Special Ability (Advanced Game)
Possession of a certain good or having a particular 
pawn in play gives you the option to perform
the special ability depicted at the base of the card.
Special abilities enhance or replace the regular
action. For example, this move action card depicts 
the monk pawn and his special ability.
Extra or Sequential Action
During card selection, you may play a
saltpeter or sulfur good to gain a
bonus during this round. Place the
chosen good on top of your player
pouch to signal which bonus you intend to use:
 Extra Action: Playing a saltpeter allows you to 
 add a fifth action card to your hand.
 Sequential Action: Playing a sulfur allows you 
 to play 2 action cards back to back on a single 
 turn. Sulfur stored in your barrel may NOT be 
 used for sequential actions (see Nourish Pawns 
 on page 20).
After the extra or sequential action is carried out,
remove the good from your player pouch and 
discard it into the haversack. You may play either an extra 
or sequential action once per round, but NOT both.
Note: You must play at least 1 selected action card each 
turn, however you may forfeit the action.

Eleven Action Cards
Choose from the 11 action cards described here.
1. Migrate Action
You may migrate 1 of your pawns 
to or from the board. If you choose 
to migrate a pawn onto the board, 
turn in a food for the journey. 
Now, take a pawn from your
personal supply, rotating it so 
that 1 of its 6 characters faces up. 
Finally, place it beside a location 
already containing 1 of your pawns 
or influence markers. If neither are 
in play, place your pawn beside 1 of the 6 pink-circled 
starting locations.
If you migrate a pawn from the board, return it to your
personal supply without food penalty.
Note: Having a pawn in play earns a player membership
status in 1 of 6 guilds (see Guild Membership on page 16).
2. Move Action
Your total movement allowance is 
equal to the number of pawns you 
have on the board. Movement may 
be divided among multiple pawns. 
Pawns move from 1 location to the 
next and may move along roads or 
special vessel routes.
Pilfer Resources
At the end of your Move Action, if 
one of the pawns you moved is beside a location containing 
a resource, you may pilfer 1 resource from that space. (This 
includes resources atop landscape tiles such as goods, targets 
or shillings.) You may not pilfer from a farm you rule or a
landscape that your own serf is tending (limit 1 pilfered
resource per movement action).
Vessels & Vessel Routes
If you have a vessel in your personal supply, you may place
it under 1 of your pawns on the board, and move along the
vessel route matching the vessel. The pawn remains atop
the vessel until the pawn moves away from the route.
Deploying a vessel does not count as an action and can be
done at any time during your turn. Once the vessel is placed, 
it may not be taken off the board.
Abandoned Vessels
If you are using a vessel and decide to continue movement
to another location requiring another mode of travel, you
may abandon the vessel and continue movement on a road,
or by deploying a different vessel from your personal
supply. On a future turn, any player (including you) may
board the abandoned vessel during a movement action.
“Distant Kin” (Advanced Game)
If you have an Alchemist pawn 
already on the board, you may 
migrate a new pawn onto the 
board to any of the 6 starting 
locations instead (even without one of your 
pawns or influence markers there).
Submersible route
Ship route
Flying Machine route
The Six Pawn Characters
 Farmer 	
 Alchemist 	
 Merchant
 Knight 	
 Noble 	
 Monk

Ferryboats
Ferryboat routes can be used by any player for a
payment of 2 shillings to the general supply. Each
payment grants a single, one-way trip. Important: Ferryboat 
routes are closed if the Alchemist has 1 or more vessels for
sale within his guild!
Epic Voyage
If you successfully play the Move Action twice in a
single round (see Repeat Action, page 14), you may
take 1 of your player discs and place it on the first space of 
the epic voyage track. If you are already on the track, advance 
your disc to the next space. Upon reaching a space marked 
with a card icon, draw 2 Royal Writ cards and keep 1 of
them. Return the other card to the bottom of the deck.
Rulers, Subjects & Serfs
If you are the first to add an influence marker to a location, 
place your marker on TOP of the disc to become its ruler.
If you are the second (and different) player to add a marker, 
place it beside the disc to become a serf. This earns you 
the right to tend a landscape (see Tend Landscape on
page 11).
On a future turn, either player may add 1 final influence 
marker. If you are already the ruler, add your marker beside 
the disc to reinforce your rule as a subject. If you are a serf, 
bump the ruler down to the serf position, leaving your new 
marker on top as the location’s new ruler.
Guild Status & Active Regions
The locations you rule may increase your guild status, and 
earn you veneration points for active regions. (see Step 4 on 
page 21).
“Money is Influence” (Advanced Game)
If you use your Merchant pawn 
to influence a location ruled by 
an opponent’s SINGLE marker, 
you may pay 1 shilling to the general supply 
to move his marker to the serf position and 
place yours on top as the ruler (even though
you are merely tied for influence). If you
have multiple merchants, choose 1 to
perform this ability.
The epic voyage track is divided into sections. At the end of 
the game, the leading player disc in each section will score 
the higher of the two veneration point values printed in that 
section (3/5, 7/9, 11/13 vp). If 2 discs are tied, they both 
score the higher value. The fourth section contains only 1 
space: the monastery. Any marker reaching this spot will 
receive 17 vp. Note: A pawn must move at least 1 space for 
the move action to be successful.
“Godspeed” (Advanced Game)
If you have a Monk pawn on the 
board, that pawn may move +1 
space at the end of your regular 
movement action. The monk pawn does not
have to be part of your regular movement
action. If you have multiple monks,
choose 1 to perform this ability.
ruler
serf
subject
3. Influence Action
You may add 1 influence marker to
each location containing one of your
pawns. For example, if all of your
pawns were at different locations,
you could add 3 influence markers.
During the game, a location may
hold a maximum of 3 influence
markers belonging to 2 different
players. No player may have more
than 2 of his own markers at a location.

4. Improve Action
Turn in the required resource to
improve a location you rule
as follows:
 • outpost to farm (wood)
 • farm to town (iron)
 • town to feudum (king’s seal)
Replace the location disc with the
NEW one from the general supply
and place your ruling influence marker on top. If you
improve a town to a feudum, choose one with an icon 
related to the guild in which you wish to gain status (see 
Guild Membership on page 16).
Feudums, Vassals & Military Service
The moment you rule a feudum, you become a
vassal, earning you powerful status in the related
guild. However, you must now pay tribute to the
king in the form of military service. If you do not perform 
several conquer actions by the end of the game, you could 
lose veneration points for disloyalty. Tip: Even one conquer 
action will help a vassal immensely.
Details on how to conquer are presented later (see page
13), but the military service track works as follows: When
you conquer an opponent, you may place 1 of your player
discs (blank side up) on the FIRST catapult projectile space
on the military service track. After each subsequent conquer 
action, place another one of your discs on the SECOND 
space and so on.
If you fail to perform conquers by the dawn of the
epochs designated with catapult icons, you must
subtract the vp noted in the epoch’s related catapult space, 
as well the negative value in the uncovered space(s) before 
it. In this way, penalties for disloyalty are cumulative. You 
may satisfy your military service earlier (or later) than the 
designated epoch.
For example, epoch 4 was just triggered. The yellow player
has a feudum but is not on the military service track. At the
dawn of epoch 2, he lost 3 vp. Now, he will lose 4 vp, plus
another 3 vp for still not covering the first catapult space.
So far, yellow has lost 10 vp. If he fails to get a player disc 
onto the track before the end of the game, he will lose
another 12 vp, for a total of 22 vp lost over the course of
the game.
Non-Vassals
If you do not rule (or no longer rule) any feudums, you are
not subject to point deductions. Even without a feudum, a
player may still put player discs onto the military track for
each successful conquer action in anticipation of becoming
a vassal later.
Outpost Farm Town Feudum
epochs II, IV, V
epochs IV, V
epoch V
Note: If you improve from a farm to a town, discard all 
goods that were on the farm into the haversack.
Region Tiles & Veneration Points
As a reward for improvement, draw the top region
tile from the stack that matches the region where
the improvement occurred. The tile must be from the
current or a former epoch, or it is prohibited. The region 
icons at the base of each stack correlate to the map regions 
(see The Board on page 3).
Consult the region tile chart and score 
veneration points based on the tile’s
epoch number and the new location. 
For example, if you improved a farm
to a TOWN and the tile drawn had the 
Roman numeral I on it, you earn 3 vp 
as printed on the chart.
If the tile is prohibited, draw a former epoch tile from
a different region tile stack. You score NO points for
collecting this tile. If there are no former epoch tiles
available, do not draw a tile.
Wild Tiles
Collected region tiles are considered “wild,” and
may be substituted for any good (food, wood,
iron, sulfur or saltpeter) at any time. Alternatively,
they may be used as a landscape (see Tend Landscape on 
page 11). Note: Removing region tiles may trigger the next 
epoch (see page 21).

5. Explore Action
If you rule an outpost, you may
play the explore action. Draw 2
Royal Writ cards, +1 card for each 
additional outpost and/or feudum 
ruled, and keep 1 of them. Return 
the other card to the bottom of the 
deck.
Royal Writs
Royal Writ cards come in 2
varieties: Mandates and Charters.
Mandates grant you resources (from
the general supply) or attack
strength, and may require you to
either turn in a good (outlined by
a square) or achieve guild status in
order to realize the award. Charters
grant you end game veneration
points based on completed
objectives. Mandates are already
sealed by the king and can be played
and discarded at any time; however, in order for charters to 
become valid, you must obtain a king’s seal and place it on 
the card at the END of the game. You may not have more 
than 3 Royal Writ cards at a time, but may discard unused 
cards to the bottom of the deck at any time (see Royal 
Writs on page 24).
“Tend Landscape” (Advanced Game)
If you turn in Wood to the
haversack, you may place 1 of 
your collected landscapes beside 
any location where you are the serf and score
2 vp. Only 1 landscape is allowed per location. 
Landscapes may not be replaced. Important: Play 
this instead of the regular improve action.
Immediately upon placing a landscape, AND
at the dawn of each subsequent epoch (after
scoring), take 3 designated resources and add 
them to the tile. Each time, you may choose to 
collect all of the resources that have accumulated, 
or let the resources continue to grow. When you 
decide to collect the resources, you must pay 1 
resource to the location’s ruler. The landscapes 
and their resources are:
Orchard: food
Silver Mine: shillings
Archery Butt: targets
Sulfur Mine: sulfur
The “butts” were fields 
used for archery training 
during the Middle Ages.
”Shovels & Swords” (Advanced Game)
If you turn in an Iron to the haversack, 
draw 2 additional cards and pick
another one to keep! Note: This is done
AFTER the normal explore action is taken.
Note: Targets are traded in for influence markers 
from the general supply when you collect the 
resources.
At the dawn of each epoch (before adding 
resources), score veneration points for each 
landscape tended by your serf(s). Score 2 vp per 
empty landscape and 4 vp per landscape
containing 1 or more resources. In order to score 
the higher value, players may forego immediate 
collection of resources. Of course, be aware
that other players may pilfer resources!
Note: Tended landscapes count towards
active regions during epoch scoring.

Rosary Beads
Rosary beads increase your total harvest yield
from +2 to +5 additional goods for as long as you
possess the bead(s). However, if you take the allotted
favors (a rather unholy act), your bead(s) are immediately 
flipped over and become king’s seals (you give up future
harvest bonuses, but gain king’s seals).
7. Tax Action
 If you rule a town, you may 
 play the Tax Action to 
 collect 2 shillings.
Add +1 shilling for each additional 
town and/or feudum ruled.
“Inspect the Harvest” (Advanced Game)
If you have a Farmer pawn in play, you 
may visibly choose your favors after 
randomly drawing the total harvest.
”Reinforcements” (Advanced Game)
If you have a Knight pawn on the board, 
you may also collect 1 influence marker 
from the general supply, or from the Knight 
Guild if the general supply is depleted. If you
have multiple knights, you still only receive
1 influence marker.
Total Harvest 5 6 7 8 9 10
Partial Harvest 4 5 5 5 6 6
Favor(s) 1 1 2 3 3 4
6. Harvest Action
If you rule a farm, you may play the
Harvest Action to randomly draw
5 goods from the haversack to
place beside 1 of your farms,
and score 1 vp.
Add +1 good for each additional
farm and/or feudum ruled, and +2
to +5 goods for each rosary bead in
your possession.
Note: The maximum harvest permitted on a single action
is 10 goods—even if your yield calculation
is higher.
Note: If a farm has 10 or more goods,
you may not harvest there again until the
farm drops below 10 goods.
On a future turn, you may play the Guild Action (trade) to
move all goods from a ruled farm to the Farmer Guild to
acquire 1 food or 1 shilling for every 2 goods traded (see
Guild Action on page 15).
Favors
In lieu of placing the total harvest onto 1 of your ruled
farms, you may choose to randomly draw and place a
partial harvest there, and then randomly draw and place 
the remaining goods (favors or “kickbacks”) into your
personal supply. Consult the harvest chart to see how a 
total harvest breaks down into a partial harvest plus favors.

For example, the blue player attacks green’s feudum which
has a defense value of +3 (+2 for the feudum and +1 for a
defending subject). Blue’s attack value is +2 (+1 for each
pawn). Because his knight is leading the attack, blue plays
2 saltpeter to bring his attack to +4. Since green did not
play a defend action, the feudum is destroyed and is
replaced with an outpost. Blue scores 4 vp and places a
player disc onto the military service track.
Saltpeter & Weapons
Turn in 1 saltpeter to the haversack to increase your attack
by +1. Important: Typically, you may only use 1 saltpeter.
However, if your knight is involved in the attack, you may
use as many as needed! Additionally, any of your pawns may 
use weapons to increase your attack by +1 or +2. Saltpeter
and/or weapons may be added even after your opponent
flips over a defend action card.
8. Conquer Action
If 1 or more of your pawns occupies
the same location as an opponent’s
pawn or feudum, you may attempt to
conquer and remove it from play.
Important: The Conquer Action may
not be your last action in a round.
Also, outposts, farms and towns may
NEVER be targeted.
A successful Conquer Action scores
you 2/4 vp and lets you move 1 of your player discs onto 
the military service track (see Feudums, Vassals & Military 
Service on page 10).
Players may attack or defend with multiple pawns; however, 
only 1 pawn or feudum may be targeted. Pawns or serfs 
belonging to a third player do NOT factor into the battle. To 
win, your attack value must be greater than your opponent’s 
defense value. A tie is a failed action.
Conquering a Pawn
When attacking a pawn, players add up the attack and
defense values of:
• Character pawn(s): + 1 attack, + 2 defense
• Monster pawn(s): + 1 attack, + 1 defense
If the attack is successful, score 2 vp, return the conquered
pawn to the opponent, adjust guild status and, if desired,
move 1 of your player discs (blank side up) onto the
military service track. If the pawn was atop a vessel, the
vessel remains on the board.
Conquering a Feudum
When attacking a feudum, players add up the attack or
defense values of the following:
• Character and/or Monster pawns
• Ruled feudum: +2 defense
• Defending subject: +1 defense
• Rebelling serf (of attacker): +1 attack
If the attack is successful, score 4 vp, replace the feudum
with an outpost, adjust guild status and, if desired, move
a player disc onto the military service track. Return all
influence markers to their respective owners unless you had 
a rebelling serf there. If so, place the serf atop the outpost to 
rule it. Any goods or landscape tiles remain.
+4 attack
(with 2
saltpeter)
+3 defense
“Starve the People” (Advanced Game)
If you have a Noble pawn beside
a location with an opponent’s
subject or serf, you may conquer
1 of them and return it to its owner. Important: 
Play this instead of the regular Conquer Action. 
You do not earn veneration points (as this act is 
quite ignoble), but you may move one of your 
player discs onto the military service track.
Important: After a successful “starve
the people” action, remove ALL alms
(rosary bead discs) atop the chickens
and return them to the general supply.

9. Defend Action
If an opponent attacks 1 of your
pawns or feudums, and you
preselected the Defend Action, you
may flip it over out of turn and
add +1 to your defense and score
1 vp. If no one attacks you during
the round, you still collect 1 vp.
10. Repeat Action
The Repeat Action lets you execute 
any action card you have already 
played during that round again, 
provided it features the (x2) symbol 
at the top.
For example, the blue player decides to conquer red’s
merchant with a noble, a monk and a saltpeter. (Blue’s
attack value is +3 compared to red’s +2 in defense).
However, in anticipation of blue’s action, red played a
defend action and turns over the card (out of turn) to
thwart the conquer attempt.
“Royal Immunity” (Advanced Game)
If you turn in a Food to the
haversack, you may play this 
action out of turn to nullify a 
noble’s Starve the People
action against you. Additionally, place a king’s 
seal from the general supply beneath your 
subject or serf to denote royal immunity from 
further Starve the People attacks! You may 
remove and use the king’s seal at any time; 
however, your subject or serf will
revert back to its unprotected status.
“Déjà vu” (Advanced Game)
If you turn in a Saltpeter to the 
haversack, you may execute a 
card that does not feature the (x2) symbol a 
second time in the round. For example, the 
Migrate Action could be played a second time 
in the same round to enter a second pawn 
onto the board. Note: The Conquer and
Defend Actions may never be played
twice in one round as indicated by
the (x2) symbol.
+3 attack
(with saltpeter)
+3 defense

11. Guild Action
A Guild Action lets players interact
with 1 of the 6 guilds that flank the
game board. An overview of the
guild action is presented here. An
in-depth look is presented later
(see The Six Guilds on page 17).
Guild Functions
A Guild Action lets you perform 1
of 3 guild functions: trade, push or
pull. Any player may trade for goods depicted at the base of
each guild. The player with the highest status in a guild is
the guild master and may perform the push function. The
player ranked second in status is the journeyman and may
perform the pull function. Note: In a game with 4+ players,
the third ranked player is the apprentice (see Guild
Membership on page 16).
Repeating Guild Action
If a player plays the Repeat Action to perform the Guild
Action again, he must interact with a different guild.
1. Trade (Any Player)
You may trade for resources at a guild
(even if you are not a member).
• Farmer Guild: 1 food (from haversack) or shilling for every
 2 goods sent to Farmer Guild
• Merchant Guild: 1-3 goods for stated shilling price
• Alchemist Guild: 1 vessel for 3 shillings
• Knight Guild: 1 row of Influence markers for 3 shillings
• Noble Guild: 1 or 2 King’s Seals for 3/6 shillings
• Monk Guild: 1 rosary bead for 3 shillings
Trading Procedure
When you trade shillings for resources, you must pay guild
members in rank order. For example, if the total cost is 3s
(3 shillings), you would pay:
• 1 shilling to the guild master
• 1 shilling to the journeyman
• 1 shilling to opposite side of board into the farmer’s purse 
 or church coffer. (The apprentice’s share ALWAYS goes
 to charity!)
If guild members are absent, return their shillings to the
general supply (except for the apprentice’s share). If the cost 
of resources is higher than 3 shillings, simply repeat the
sequence until the cost has been satisfied. Important: Even 
though guild members who trade with their own guilds will 
pay themselves, they still MUST have the total shillings
required to complete each purchase.
For example, the purple player (journeyman) buys 5
shillings worth of goods. He pays the 1st shilling to the 
blue player (guild master), the 2nd to himself, the 3rd to the 
church coffer, the 4th to blue again and finally the last to 
himself. Even though he got back 2 shillings, he had to
possess 5 shillings to perform the transaction.
2. Pull (Journeyman)
The journeyman pulls resources into his guild
 (from the guild on the left) to score 3 vp and to
draw 2 Royal Writ cards, keeping 1 of them. Return the 
other card to the bottom of deck. Note: The Monk Guild is 
to the left of the Farmer Guild, and the Alchemist Guild is
to the left of the Knight Guild.
3. Push (Guild Master)
The guild master pushes resources out of his guild
(to the guild on his right) to score 4, 5, or 6 vp
based on outcome (see The Six Guilds on page 17).
”Feast” (Advanced Game)
If you turn in a Sulfur
from your wine barrel to
the haversack, you may
throw a feast for any pawn or feudum owner 
your pawn is beside. Perform his push/pull 
function to score his regular points +3 vp. If 
a push function triggers the distribution of 
the church coffer or farmer’s purse, take his 
share of the shillings (see The Six Guilds
on page 17).
3rd
1st
2nd
4th
5th

Guild Membership
Guild membership is a crucial part of the game. Not only
does it enable you to perform the push and pull functions 
during a Guild Action for immediate veneration points, it 
also earns you reccurring vp at the dawn of each epoch. 
Membership in a guild is realized by earning related status 
stars as follows:
• Each related pawn in play: +1 (primary)
• Each related feudum ruled: +3 (primary)
• Each related location ruled: +1 (secondary)
You must have at least 1 of the guild’s primary criteria
(pawn or feudum) in play BEFORE the guild’s related
location (outpost, farm or town) counts towards status in
that guild. (Refer to location icons printed in each guild.)
Guild Track
If you have earned 1 or more status stars in a guild, you
MUST immediately place an influence marker from your
personal supply onto the related guild track. If you have
no influence markers in your personal supply, place one
in the guild as soon as you get one. Influence markers
in guilds may not be voluntarily removed. 
Guild Status
The player with the most
status stars places his marker
on the space furthest to the right on the guild track
denoting him as guild master. Players with the second
and third most status stars place markers to the left in
descending order and are known as the journeyman and
apprentice respectively. The guild master, journeyman
and apprentice score 5, 3 or 1 vp respectively at the
dawn of each epoch. Note: The apprentice space is
NOT used in a game with less than 4 players. Whether or
not the space is occupied, the apprentice portion of a
payment is ALWAYS sent to the opposite side of the board 
to the church coffer or farmer’s purse.
You must surpass (not tie) another player in status stars to
take his spot on a guild track. When this happens, replace 
his marker with yours and bump his marker 1 square to 
the left (or return his marker if no space remains).
Reeves (Advanced Game)
When you perform a journeyman’s pull or a 
guild master’s push, you may add a maximum
of 1 Reeve disc to the guild (top left or right 
respectively) to immediately score a bonus of 
+1 vp AND another +1 vp if your second reeve 
is in play at another guild! A future push or pull 
done with your reeve present will score in the 
same manner.
Note: Players who throw feasts do NOT score 
for their opponent’s reeves.
If you switch from journeyman to guild master
or vice versa, move your reeve to that side of 
the guild. If you are demoted to apprentice (4 
to 5-player game), or get bumped off the guild, 
return the reeve to your personal supply.
Note: Using your reeves may limit you
from entering the Epic Voyage and
Military Service Tracks!
For example, the red player rules a noble feudum
(+3 ), and a town (+1 ) for a total of +4 , making him
the guild master. Green has a noble pawn (+1 ) and a
town (+1 ) in play for a total of +2 , making him the
journeyman. Later, red loses his feudum, and suddenly
his town does not count towards his star total. Red loses
his guild membership and green becomes the guild
master. Later, red migrates a noble pawn to the board
(+1 ). Suddenly, his town counts towards his total
again, but he now only ties green with +2 and must
settle for journeyman status.
apprentice
journeyman
guild master

Farmer’s Purse
When the guild master at the Farmer Guild
performs the push function, he splits any
shillings in the farmer’s purse with the journeyman, keeping 
the odd numbered shilling. If there is no journeyman, that 
portion remains in the purse for the next distribution.
Miss Allison
The Six Guilds
When playing a Guild Action, you must choose 1 of 3
guild functions. The 6 guilds and their functions are
described on the next few pages and summarized on the
back side of your reference card. Note: There are limited
resources in the game and a shortage may weaken or
prevent a guild action.
 1. Farmer Guild
 send all goods from 
 one of his ruled farms to the 
 Farmer Guild to receive 1 food 
 or 1 shilling for every 2 goods 
 sent. Note: Acquired food and/or 
 shillings are taken from the
 haversack and/or general supply.
Surplus
Any goods sent to the Farmer Guild
above its limit of 10 go back into the
haversack, UNLESS there are beads atop
the chickens. The sum of the beads here is
the number of goods that randomly “spill over” into first the 
Merchant Guild and then the Alchemist Guild if space
permits. Whatever is left, or does not fit, goes back into
the haversack.
The journeyman at the Farmer
Guild pulls 2 rosary beads from
the Monk Guild with the lowest and highest values and gives 
them to an opponent who secretly divides the beads into two 
closed fists. The journeyman selects a fist and places the
chosen bead (alms) onto an empty chicken space in the 
Farmer Guild, returning the other to the rosary.
If the new sum of beads atop the chickens is 5 or more, score 
3 vp and draw 2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return 
the other card to bottom of deck.
The guild master at the Farmer
Guild moves 5 goods (fewer if
impossible) from the Farmer Guild to the Merchant Guild. 
Place the goods in their respective bins. If there is no room 
for a particular good, you may not transfer it. If you complete 
1/2/3 rows or columns, you receive 4/5/6 vp respectively. 
(You may complete rows/columns that were partially filled.) 
Note: During this function, you may complete rows or
columns, but not both, as a good may not count twice toward 
your goal.
Pull
Push
Trade

Production Chart
• Ship: 1 food + 2 wood
• Submersible: 1 food + 2 iron
• Flying machine: 1 food + 1 iron + 1 wood
• 1st barrel of krud: 2 saltpeter + 1 sulfur
• 2nd barrel of krud: 1 saltpeter + 1 sulfur
• 3rd barrel of krud: 1 wood
If you complete 1/2/3 inventions, you receive 4/5/6 vp
respectively. Note: While the first krud barrel will
always cost 3 goods, multiple barrels created are
completed with increasing ease.
Vessels & Closed Ferryboat routes
When vessels are completed, the creator stacks them on
the vessel space covering the ferryboat symbol. Note: If
the symbol is covered by one or more vessels, ferryboat
routes are CLOSED!
Krud Barrels
When barrels of krud (gunpowder) are invented, the creator 
fills up the leading barrel section in every player’s row with 
influence markers at the Knight Guild! Each player has a 
row divided into 3 barrel sections. The first barrel holds 1 
marker per player, the second holds 2 markers and the final 
barrel holds 3. If at least 1 player has an entire row empty, 
3 barrels can be invented—otherwise barrel creation is 
limited. Note: Some players may receive fewer markers per 
barrel created depending on empty or partially filled
sections in their rows.
For example, the guild master in the Alchemist Guild creates 
1 barrel. He adds zero influence markers to the green player’s 
row above, 3 to blue’s row, 1 to red’s row, 2 to yellow’s row, 
and 1 to the empty row (purple player).
“Krud” is Old Danish for 
 gunpowder and was made 
 by mixing saltpeter, sulfur 
 and dry wood.
Lord Brett
 2. Merchant Guild
 Any player may purchase
 a maximum of 3 goods
 from the market. The shilling 
 cost is located under the
 good itself.
The journeyman at the Merchant
Guild moves 3 goods (fewer if
impossible) from the Farmer Guild into the Merchant
Guild. Simply place the goods in their respective bins.
If there is no room for a particular good, you may not
transfer it. If you complete at least 1 row or column, score
3 vp and draw 2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return
the other card to bottom of deck.
The guild master at the Merchant
Guild moves 4 goods (fewer if
impossible) from the Merchant Guild to the Alchemist Guild. 
Simply place the goods in their respective carts or piles. If 
there is no room for a particular good, you may not transfer 
it. If you complete 1/2/3 carts and/or piles, you receive
4/5/6 vp respectively.
 3. Alchemist Guild
 purchase 1 vessel from the
 Alchemist Guild for 3 shillings.
The journeyman at the Alchemist
Guild moves 2 goods (fewer if
impossible) from the Merchant Guild to the Alchemist Guild. 
Simply place the goods on their respective squares. If there 
is no room for a particular good, you may not transfer it. If 
you complete at least 1 cart/pile, you score 3 vp and draw
2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return the other card 
to bottom of deck.
The guild master at the Alchemist
Guild completes 1-3 inventions
(either vessels and/or barrels of krud) by removing
available goods from the carts/piles per the production
chart and returning them to the haversack.
Lord Arthur
Markers added if 1 krud barrel created

4. Knight Guild
Any player may pay 3 shillings 
to acquire all the influence 
markers in
his row.
The guild master at the Knight
Guild pushes 1-3 different
colored influence markers to the general supply and
exchanges them for king’s seals to place onto the scrolls in 
the Noble Guild (without peeking at the values underneath).
If you complete 1/2/3 rows or columns, you receive
4/5/6 vp respectively. Note: During this function, you may 
complete rows or columns, but not both, as a king’s seal 
may not count twice toward your goal.
Sir Marcus
Tame the Beast (Advanced Game)
After purchasing a row of 3 or more
influence markers, you may return 
3 of them to control a single monster. (Return
2 to the general supply, and place the third 
marker onto the related monster icon to
indicate ownership). Then, immediately deploy 
the monster to any location containing one of 
your influence markers or pawns. (Sea Serpent 
must be on a port bordering the sea or river).
The sea serpent is limited to ship and
submersible routes. The behemoth is limited
to roads and flying machine routes. If either 
monster is defeated, return it to the Knight Guild
for reuse and retrieve your influence marker.
Behemoth & Sea Serpent
Monsters add to your movement allowance, and 
can pilfer, conquer and use weapons just like 
pawns. However, there are some differences:
• Monsters pin opponent pawns unless the pawn
 migrates off the board, or defeats the monster
• Monsters have only a defense of +1
• Monsters can NOT influence locations,
 perform feasts or use vessels
• You do not need to feed them
 (they eat people)
The journeyman at the Noble Guild
pulls 2 different colored influence
markers from the Knight Guild into the general supply and 
exchanges them for king’s seals. If you complete at least
1 row or column of scrolls with the seals, you score 3 vp 
and draw 2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return the 
other card to the bottom of the deck.
The guild master at the Noble
Guild pushes 2 king’s seals
(fewer if impossible) over to the Monk Guild and flips
them to reveal rosary beads. If the sum of the numbers
on the rosary beads reaches at least 5/11/17,
score 4/5/6 vp respectively.
5. Noble Guild
Any player may purchase 1 or 
2 king’s seal for 3/6 shillings.
Queen Anne
The journeyman at the Knight
Guild pulls goods from the Alchemist Guild to invent
either 1 krud barrel to add influence markers, or 1 vessel
to place in the Alchemist Guild. Either way, score 3 vp
and draw 2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return
the other card to the bottom of the deck.

The guild master at the Monk
Guild takes 2 beads from the
rosary with the lowest and highest values and gives them to
an opponent who secretly places each bead into a closed fist. 
Select a fist and place the chosen bead (alms) onto a chicken 
space in the Farmer Guild, returning the other to
the rosary.
If the new sum of beads atop the chickens is at least 3/6/9, 
score 4/5/6 vp respectively.
Church Coffer
When the guild master at the Monk Guild performs the
push function, he splits any shillings in the
church coffer with the journeyman, keeping
the odd numbered shilling. If there is no journeyman, that
portion remains in the church coffer for the next distribution.
Brother Justinius
 6. Monk Guild
 pay 3 shillings
 for the chance to collect a
 favorable rosary bead. Take
 2 beads from the rosary with
 the lowest and highest values 
 and give them to an opponent 
who secretly places each bead into a closed fist. Select a fist 
and place the bead into your personal supply, returning the 
other to the rosary. Rosary beads increase your harvest yield 
during the harvest action (see Rosary Beads on page 12).
The journeyman at the Monk Guild
moves 1 king’s seal (land grant) from
the castle over to the rosary and flips it to reveal a rosary 
bead.
If the sum of the rosary now totals 11 or more, score 3 vp
and draw 2 Royal Writ cards keeping 1 of them. Return
the other card to the bottom of the deck.
Step 2: Nourish Pawns
After the last action card is played in a round, you must
nourish your pawns with food and/or wine (using a wild 
tile is optional). Unnourished pawns go back into your 
personal supply. If losing a pawn takes you out of a guild, 
retrieve your influence marker from that guild.
Food
To nourish a pawn with food, turn in 1 food to the
haversack. Player-controlled monsters do not need feeding.
Wine
To nourish a pawn with wine, remove a sulfur
good from your wine barrel and place it atop
the pawn to sustain it for 2 full rounds. At the
end of the following round, simply remove
the sulfur from atop the pawn to satisfy the nourishment
requirement (the pawn has sobered up). While wine is a
more efficient way to nourish pawns, it carries a risk!
Important: During the first round when the pawn carries the
sulfur, its defense and attack capabilities are reduced to 0.
Wine Barrels & Sulfur
Upon purchasing, pilfering, or acquiring a sulfur
in any way, you must decide whether to place it
into your personal supply, or into your wine barrel.
 Your wine barrel may hold a maximum of
 3 sulfur goods.
 Medieval wine was preserved by
 placing sulfur in the wine barrels.
Step 3: Roll Progress Die
After nourishing pawns, roll the progress die and
remove a region tile matching the region rolled.
The tile to be removed must be from the current or
a former epoch. If it is not, roll again until one is removed. 
If no region tiles from the current or a former epoch remain, 
do not roll the progress die.

After rolling the progress die, consult the region tile chart
to see if a new epoch has been triggered based on the
following criteria:
Epoch Advancement Criteria
• Epoch II: 4 epoch II tiles
• Epoch III: 3 epoch III tiles
• Epoch IV: 2 epoch IV tiles
• Epoch V: 1 epoch V space
If a new epoch was triggered, advance the epoch marker
to the next sunray and do the following:
1. Score Epoch (dawn of all epochs)
• Guild Status: 1/3/5 vp
• Landscapes
 • Empty landscape: 2 vp
 • Landscapes with at least 1 resource: 4 vp
• Active Regions: 1/3/5/7/9/11 vp (score for each region 
 occupied by either a ruler or a landscape-tending serf).
2. Subtract for Disloyalty (epochs 2, 4 & 5 only)
Subtract for disloyalty (- 3/- 4/- 5 vp) if you rule
a feudum but have not covered the current epoch’s
catapult space. Also, cumulatively subtract points for
previously uncovered spaces.
3. Replenish Landscapes (dawn of all epochs)
Add 3 appropriate resources to each landscape tile. Serfs
must decide if they wish to collect all accumulated
resources or leave them on the tile. When serfs collect,
they must pay 1 resource to the location’s ruler.
4. Replenish Map (epochs 2, 3 & 4 only)
Randomly select goods from the haversack and place 1 in
the southern, eastern, or western-most location in each
region per the direction icon in the sunray. Look for the
locations containing the letter S, E, or W (goods are
placed at Northern locations at the beginning of the
game). Goods placed on farms become part of that
farm’s harvest.
5. Replenish Guilds (dawn of epoch 3 only)
At the dawn of epoch 3, replenish the 6 guilds with
resources so they cover the spaces indicated at setup. 
(Leave any extra resources where they are.)
Step 5: End Round/Game & Final Scoring
At the end of the round, pass the starting player marker
clockwise, take up all your action cards and begin a
new round.
However, if epoch 5 was triggered during the round, the
game is nearly over. Complete all remaining actions and
score the epoch as usual.
Then, perform Final Scoring as follows:
• Epic Voyage: 3/5, 7/9, 11/13, 17 vp
 Score the higher value if you are in the lead (or tied)
 in any section.
• Large Empires
 • Each outpost, farm, town ruled: 1 vp
 • Each feudum ruled: 3 vp
 • 3 identical locations ruled: 3 vp (Here, a feudum
 is “wild” and may either match itself or another
 location type)
• 3 Shillings: 1 vp
• Royal Writ with king’s seal: ? vp
The Winner
The player with the most vp is heralded, “most venerated
in all the land!” If there is a tie, the player with the most
sulfur left in his barrel wins (sobriety is more honorable).
If there is still a tie, the
players share in the victory.
Step 4: Advance Epoch Marker & Score Epoch (if triggered)

Queens before her were seduced by 
queenly couture and wore status 
like a royal overcoat. Others 
were conned by fine cutlery 
or lulled by lavish linens
from the bedding chambers. 
Not Queen Anne. No, this
red-haired Highness loved 
something else: Gold. From her 
dazzling tiara down to her gilded toe rings, no other 
queen had been so utterly taken by the yellow metal. It 
wasn’t always so. The good king had courted a kind and 
generous heart, not swayed by material greed. But as the 
Queen’s beauty faded, she placated her fears with fawning 
men and a tryst or two in the treasury room.
King Daniel was generous and 
without guile. His subjects 
insisted that heaven itself 
bestowed benevolence upon 
him. Yet Queen Anne, who 
had less noble intentions on 
how to run the kingdom, be­
moaned his charity. Unaware of her 
dwindling loyalty, King Daniel put her in charge,
while he accompanied his bravest knight, Sir Marcus,
on a noble expedition. “I bid thee farewell, my love,” he
told his queen. And with that, he kissed her, not realizing 
that love was not to be found on her lips (or in her hips, 
for that matter).
Sir Marcus was a brave but 
battleworn knight, widely ad­
mired across the kingdom. In 
the still of the day, he dreamt 
of a certain farm maiden who 
had come of age. Yet his
allegiance to the throne never 
 
faltered. In service to
his king, Sir Marcus recruited troops and dutifully
enforced a tax that funded the building of outposts at the 
edges of the kingdom. With Sir Marcus at his side, King 
Daniel penned into law several Royal Writs—charters that
expanded the kingdom, and mandates that rewarded the
ingenuity of his subjects.
In his absence, the king entrusted 
the granting of fiefdoms to his 
queen. And thus he lent her his 
royal crown seal, a ring whose 
stamp on burning red wax 
could turn mere commoners 
into doting vassals in a single 
stroke. Queen Anne was often 
seen peering out the window in the 
royal tower, running her fingers through her vermilion hair 
and whispering to her pet snake, Samuel. “Nothing suits 
my suitors sweeter than gold,” she uttered—and her pet 
agreed, “Ssssssss.” 
When a famine struck the land, the good king’s heart was
troubled. He beseeched the monks 
to pray for a bountiful harvest, and
bestowed lands and wealth upon
the church so that alms could
be given to the poor. His loyal
subject and holy confidant,
Brother Justinius, chortled with
gratitude as the king tossed a pouch
of shillings into the church coffer. “The
people cherish thy charity, good king! May choirs cheer 
and Chaucer chronicle your good name.” The coins echoed 
throughout the basilica, “Ka- Chink. Ka-Chink.”

 
In front of her public, the queen 
feigned sympathy for the king’s 
penchant for charity. But secretly, 
she abhorred the idea of
depleting the royal treasury! 
Donning a dark, emerald cloak, 
she stole away one frozen night 
to seek out Lord Arthur, Earl of
 
alchemy. The earl was most famous 
for his spinning cogs, pulleys and contraptions; but deeper 
rumors likened him to a sorcerer who could summon
explosions and fuse common elements into gold.
One evening, the earl and his cat Norrin were startled by
a knock at the door. “It is your queen my good earl,” she
 
revealed. “I have come to share
 
concoctions of my own.” The
queen spoke to him in hushed 
tones, urging him to reveal the 
secrets of his alchemy. But
when the earl forbade her 
procurement of the unstable 
formula, she stealthily snatched 
 
his journal and departed. As she 
strode away, the earl uttered his defiance, “May malady
malign you my mercurial menace.” Norrin had witnessed
the queen’s mischief and mused, “Meow.”
Frustrated by her husband’s
charity, Queen Anne seized the 
alms set aside for the poor
and restored her royal
treasury to its former luster. 
Not only did her treachery 
trigger starvation among the
common folk, it drove up the 
price of goods. This enriched 
the pockets of the dashing Lord Brett, the wealthiest
merchant in all the land. “Good squires, like squirrels, 
never squander,” the merchant quipped, as he shooed a
rat from his apple barrel. “Squeak!”
To surmise the gravity of a looming famine, the king
invited farm maiden and friend of
the poor, Miss Allison into his 
court. The girl was plain in 
manner, but not in beauty. 
Her eyes were swirling vats
of endless chestnuts. Her
pure round lips could out pout 
a tantrum. Even her collarbones 
stood up to greet you with a warm 
hearty, “hello.” When the time came to
address the king, she held a lamb in her arms and boldly 
spoke on behalf of her starving countrymen, “Banish us
before hunger becomes the bane of our existence.” Her 
lamb bleated softly, “Baaaaa.”
…the fable continues in the expansion, Windmills &
Catapults.
Game Credits
I would like to thank all my original play testers, Arthur
Hartle, Samuel Tham, Brett Barton, Dan Fritz, Andy White,
Justin Viessman and James Gall for playing the game long
before it got all shiny and polished, and for giving me
stellar feedback—even at 2am in the morning! I am also
thankful for my “second wave” of playtesters and rulebook
editors including Tim Maylander, Glen Greeson, Eric Gerdts, 
Michael Gallo, Phil Shearrer and Travis D. Hill. Mountains of 
gratitude go to my artist Justin Schultz, who amazed me with 
his astonishing illustrations, cheeky sensibilities, and hidden 
“gems” in the artwork. For that, Justin himself is a gem! And 
finally, I thank my wonderful children Elizabeth, Rosalind
and Penny for letting Dad disappear to the basement to
work on “his game.”
 Author: Mark Swanson
 Artist: Justin Schultz
 ©2017 Odd Bird Games

Royal Writs
Charters (play at game end)
Use bow for free: +1 attack
Turn in wood: +2 attack
Use sword for free: +1 attack
Turn in iron: +2 attack
Turn in food: 3s
Turn in wood & food: 7s
Turn in iron, wood & food: 9s
Turn in sulfur, iron, wood
& food: 13s
Turn in food: flying machine*
Turn in wood: ship*
Turn in wood: ship*
Turn in iron: submersible*
Reach 3 in 1 guild to earn
3 goods, 3s or any vessel*
Reach 3 in 1 guild to earn
3 influence*, 1 seal* or 1 bead*
Mandates (play once anytime)
* Drawn from supply
Eastern Kingdom (per
Western Kingdom (per
Central Kingdom (per
Isolated Kingdom (per
location ruled): 5/11/17 vp
End game with 2 or 3
sulfur in barrel: 5/7 vp
If you defeat either monster
during game: 7 vp 
Northern Kingdom (per
Southern Kingdom (per