tm
FRANCE 1429
Designed by Philippe MOUCHEBEUF
Version 
- Uwe

-1-
game setup (6 player setup shown)
Place the Game Board in a central location. The map represents a portion of France in the 
Middle Ages. Villages have square outlines and are connected by roads that allow Lord and 
Troop movement.
Each Village is located in one of eight uniquely colored background Fiefs (Fiefdoms).
Each Village also belongs to one of 5 Bishoprics (Diocese). Each Bishopric is outlined with a thick lined 
border and is numbered between 1-5 along the edge of the board inside a Bishop’s Mitre (headdress).
Each Village is part of both a Fief and a Bishopric. The five Villages with larger name banners are the 
Principal Villages of their individual Bishoprics.
Shuffle all Bounty & 
Disaster cards (grey and 
black backs) together 
and place them on the 
Bounty & Disaster Card 
Draw Deck space.
Shuffle the Lord 
cards (brown 
backs) and place 
them on the Lords 
Draw Deck space. 
Each player draws a Lord card from 
the Lords Draw Deck and places it 
with their starting units. If a Cardinal or 
the d’ARC card is drawn, shuffle it back 
into the deck and draw another card. 
Now find the corresponding Lord token for 
the Lord card the Player drew. 
Players pick a color and place on their Family Board all 
counters and markers associated with this color. This is 
their stockpile from which they will pull during the game.
These include:
•	 8 Knights, 13 Men at Arms and 2 Siege Engine counters
•	 3 Diplomacy markers
•	 2 Vote markers
•	 3 Tax markers
•	 1 Marriage marker
A Player begins the game with:
5 Deniers, 1 Knight, 3 Men at Arms, 1 Stronghold.
 
A Bishopric’s Principal 
Village has a larger banner. 
Fiefs have colored 
backgrounds and cross 
Bishopric borders. 
Bishopric 
Border 
Bishopric 
Number 

-2-
Place the 3 
Cardinal Biretta 
counters, the 
purchasable Cardinal 
Biretta counter and the 
d’ARC Title counter on 
their respective spaces. 
Place the 8 Fief Title 
counters and the 5 Bishop 
Title Staff counters on 
their respective Fief and 
Bishopric spaces.
Place the King, Queen, 
Pope and Crown Prince 
counters on their respective 
spaces. 
Placement
Determine a starting player who takes the First 
Player card and chooses his starting Village. 
In it he places his 1 Knight, 3 Men at Arms, 1 
Stronghold, and Lord token.
In clock wise order, the other Players do the same, 
placing their units into any remaining unoccupied 
Village. Then the starting Player begins the first round. 
Example: The Green player is the starting Player 
and chooses to start in the Village of St Médard, 
where he places his 1 Knight, 3 Men at Arms, 
1 Stronghold, and the Lord François token. 
Sort and place within easy reach: 
Lord tokens, Stronghold/
Fortified City counters, Mill, 
Assassination, Capture and 
Excommunication markers, 
Denier coins. 

-3-
Game Overview
In the game of Fief, each Player heads a noble family in the medieval 
Kingdom of France. A family is comprised of individual Lords (noble 
men and women) that strive to attain Royal and Ecclesiastical titles. 
These titles not only gain the Player’s family wealth and power, but 
also the right to vote for which Lords become the next King of France 
or the Pope! 
The game map contains Villages designated by squares. The Villages 
are connected to each other by roads that allow Lord and Troop 
movement. 
The map consists of eight Fiefs (the domains of feudal Lords). Each 
of the eight Fiefs bears its own unique colored background.
A Bishopric is outlined with a thick lined border and is numbered 
from 1-5 inside a Bishop’s Mitre (headdress) along the edge of the 
map. A Bishopric is a church diocese governed by a Bishop.
Each Village is located in both a Fief and a Bishopric. 
A Player can purchase a Fief’s Title (crown) for one of his family 
members after he controls all of the Villages and a Stronghold in a 
Fief. A Player receives 1 Victory Point (VP) for each Fief Title his 
family controls and may vote for which Lord becomes King.
A Player may also attempt to gain a Bishop Title for one of his male 
family members. The Title of Bishop allows that Player to tithe the 
Villages in his Bishopric and to vote for which Lord becomes the next 
Pope or King. 
The titles of Pope and King bestow 1VP each to a family. A Player 
wins the game if he has 3 VPs at the end of a round. 
It is difficult to win alone, so two Players often enter into alliances 
through marriage to win as a team. A team of two Players needs 
only 4 VPs to win the game. 
Players may draw a new Lord card each round which allows them 
to place a new family member onto the map. They may also draw 
Fortune Cards which bestow benefits such as ‘Bountiful Harvest’, 
‘Good Weather’, and ‘Tax Income’. But they may also draw Disaster 
Cards that can cause ‘Plagues’, ‘Famine’, or ‘Heavy Rain’. Still, other 
cards can cause Uprisings, Assassinations, and other nasty ‘events’. 
Players receive income for Villages and Mills they control. A 
Player’s Bishops and Cardinals can increase income by Tithing their 
Bishoprics, and his Fief Lords can levy Tallages on their Fiefdoms. 
These incomes can then be used to purchase additional Troops, 
Mills, Strongholds, and Fief Titles. Income may also be used to bribe 
or ‘help’ other Players.
Players occupy Villages with their Troops of Men at Arms and 
Knights that are led by family Lords. If opposing Player Troops are in 
the same Village, a Battle may commence.
Expanding a Family’s territory brings more influence and income 
- thus gaining its family members the Titles for Fiefs, Bishops, 
Cardinals, the Pope, or even King... signs of true power and the basis 
of a new French dynasty!
game components
tm
Men at arms
78 counters
(13 per player)
taxes
 18 markers
(3 per player)
assassin
2 markers
vote
12 markers
(2 per player)
crown 
prince
1 marker
marriage
6 markers
(1 per player)
capture
6 markers
Diplomacy
18 markers
(3 per player)
excommu- 
nication
1 marker
knights
48 counters
(8 per player)
siege 
 engines
12 counters
(2 sides)
(2 per player)
lords
18 tokens
(6 female and 
12 male)
Stronghold / Fortified City
12 counters
Battle
dice
four black 
& four 
white
FIRST PLAYER
1 card
LORDS
22 cards
25 cards
disaster
10 cards
Mill
15 counters
Holy relics counters
deniers
(Money)
Titles
17 counters
d’arc counter
x 8
x 3
x 1
x 5

-4-
Game Play
1.0 Phase 1. ‘Hear Ye, Hear Ye’
1.1. Marriage Alliances
A Marriage is a political arrangement to ally two families, and 
no alliance is possible without a Marriage. Players who agree 
to a Marriage must announce it publicly.
Note: The term “Lords” in the rules applies to both males 
(Lords) and females (Ladies). Some rules specifically 
distinguish the difference and use the terms Lord and Lady, 
as appropriate.
A marriage unites an unmarried Lord (who is not a Bishop, a 
Cardinal, or the Pope) and an unmarried Lady of two separate 
Players. Players may have only one Marriage, and thus one 
Alliance, at a time. Note: A female with the d’ARC Title may 
not marry (9.1).
If the Lord is the King, his new wife immediately becomes 
Queen (1.8.1).
If the Lady is the Queen Regent (where the former King died), 
her new husband does not become King. A Lord can only 
become King through an election (1.8) or if he is the Crown 
Prince when the King dies (1.8.2).
To symbolize the marriage alliance between the two families, 
they exchange their Marriage markers, which are placed on 
the allied married Player’s LORD cards.
Example: The blue Player with 
Lord Quentin suggests an 
alliance to the magenta Player 
with Lady Jeanne.
Both Players agree on the 
Alliance and exchange their 
Marriage markers (rings) and 
place them on their Lord and 
Lady cards.
Quentin
Jeanne
The Marriage negotiations could also include the exchange 
of money or cards, if either Player plays a Diplomacy marker 
(8.0).
Allied Players cannot have a solo victory. They can only win 
as a team.
Note: Team Victories are only allowed in 4 to 6 Player games 
(7.2). In 3 Player games, Players may only win alone.
1.1.1 End an Alliance
Sometimes Players are in an unwanted alliance. To end the 
alliance, there are only two options:
1. Arrange the death of one of the spouses (thru Battle or 
Assassination 10.3).
2. Receive an annulment from the Pope to annul the marriage 
(1.7).
1.2 Titles
In Fief, a Player’s Lords can obtain different Titles.
Fief Titles include: Baron or Baroness, Count or Countess, and 
Duke or Duchess. A Fief Title can be purchased during the 
Purchase Phase (4.3). To purchase a Fief Title, a Player must 
occupy all Villages and at least one Stronghold in the Fief.
Ecclesiastical Titles include: Bishop, Cardinal and Pope, and 
are reserved for unmarried male Lords. Bishop and Pope 
titles are gained through an election (1.3). Cardinal titles are 
Round Overview
Fief is played over a number of rounds until one Player, or an 
alliance of two Players, have gained enough Victory Points (VPs) 
to win the game at the round’s end.
Each round consists of seven Phases. During each Phase, Players 
execute each action in clockwise order.
Phase 1. ‘Hear Ye, Hear Ye’ (Play each Action in order)
•	 Announce Marriage Alliances (1.1),
•	 Elect Bishops (1.4),
•	 Elect the Pope (1.7),
•	 Elect the King (1.8).
Phase 2. Draw & Play Cards (Play each Action in order)
•	 Players may discard and/or draw new Lord and Fortune cards 
into their hands (2.1),
•	 Resolve all drawn Disaster cards (2.3),
•	 Players play Lord and Fortune cards from their hands (2.4).
Phase 3. Collect Income (Collect simultaneously) 
•	 Players collect 1 Denier for each Village they control.
They collect an additional 2 Deniers for each Village in a Fief on 
which they played a Tax card to Tallage (2.4.4),
•	 Players collect 2 Deniers for each Mill they control.
They collect an additional 1 Denier per Mill, for each Bountiful 
Harvest (2.4.2), and/or Good Weather (2.4.3) card that has been 
played on the Bishopric,
•	 A Player takes all Mill incomes in a Bishopric on which he has 
played a Tax card to Tithe (2.4.6),
•	 Player with the Queen Title collects 2 Deniers,
•	 All Fortune cards on the map are removed and are placed on 
Phase 4. Purchase (Purchase ALL units and titles in order)
•	 Men at Arms cost 1 Denier each (4.1),
•	 Knights cost 3 Deniers each (4.1),
•	 Mills cost 3 Deniers each (4.2),
•	 Strongholds cost 10 Deniers each (4.2),
•	 Fief Titles cost 4, 6 or 8 Deniers each (4.3),
•	 The Purchasable Cardinal Title costs 5 Deniers (4.4).
Phase 5. Movement (Move ALL Troops and Lords in order)
•	 Each Lord may move up to two Villages away (5.0),
•	 Men at Arms and Knights (Troops) must move with a Lord, 
who can pick them up and drop them off along the way.
Phase 6. Battles (Play ALL Battles in order)
Opposing Troops in the same Village can engage in battle. A 
Battle (6.0) can last several rounds.
•	 Men at Arms = 1 Strength Point (SP), Knight = 3 SPs,
•	 Each Male Lord or Titled Female Lord = 1 SP,
•	 In battle, use the following number of Battle Dice for 
corresponding number of SPs: 1 to 6 SPs = 1 Battle Die, 7 to 12 
SPs = 2 Battle Dice, 13 or more SPs = 3 Battle Dice.
Phase 7. End Round
•	 All Disaster cards on the map are removed and are placed on 
•	 Determine if there is a winner or winners. A Player wins with 
3VPs. An Alliance wins with 4VPs,
•	 If there are no winners, pass the First Player card to the left 
and a new round begins.

-5-
gained by randomly pulling a Cardinal Title card from the 
Lords Draw Deck (1.5) or by purchasing the Cardinal Title 
counter that is available for purchase at the right edge of the 
game board (4.4).
Royal Titles include: King, Queen (Queen Regent), and Crown 
Prince. The King (1.8) is elected by Lords with Titles.
A Titled Lord is any Lord with at least one of the above Titles. 
When a Lord receives a Title, its corresponding Title Crown or 
Staff Counter is placed next to the Lord card.
Note: a Lord can have several Fief Titles and/or only one 
Bishop’s Title.
1.3 Elections and Voting
The Titles of Bishop, Pope, and King are gained through 
elections. First Bishops are elected, then the Pope, then the 
King. Each election follows the same procedure:
1. In turn order, a Player can declare one of his eligible Lords as 
a candidate. Eligibility for each Title varies, as explained below.
2. Voting begins, after all candidates are declared. Each Player 
has two Vote markers with his colored background:
•	A ‘FOR’ Vote with a white circle.
•	A ‘DECOY’ Vote with a black circle.
In turn order, each Player with a right to vote places 
none, one or both Vote markers face down on the 
candidates of his choice.
3. Once all Players have voted, the Vote markers are flipped 
and tallied.
A Player’s ‘FOR’ vote marker gives the target candidate ALL of 
that Player’s votes.
‘DECOY’ votes have no effect on an election. A Player may 
have placed a Decoy vote in order to mislead other Players on 
how he was voting.
Note: Use the Decoy Vote marker wisely, since a Player can 
make an opponent think that he is voting for a candidate, when 
he actually is not. This may throw the election and postpone 
the awarding of a Title to a future round.
When a candidate is elected, place the corresponding Title 
Crown or Staff Counter next to the winning Lord’s card.
1.4 Bishop Elections
The Game Map is 
divided 
into 
Bishoprics which 
are outlined with a 
thick lined border 
and are numbered from 1-5 inside a Bishop’s Mitre (headdress 
pictured at left) along the edge of the map.
If all Villages in a Bishopric are occupied by Players (5.1) and 
there is no current Bishop of that Bishopric, then an election 
for Bishop is held.
Candidates: Any male Lord who is unmarried (1.1), and NOT 
already a Bishop, a Captive (6.2.3), Excommunicated (1.7), or 
the King (1.8), can be a candidate. A Lord does not have to be 
present in the Bishopric to be a candidate to become its Bishop.
Votes: A Player receives: 
•	 2 votes for controlling the Bishopric’s Principal Village (the 
Village in the Bishopric with the largest name banner).
•	 1 vote for every other Village he controls in the Bishopric,
•	 2 votes for every uncaptured Lord Bishop the Player had in 
play at the beginning of this round. (Newly created Bishops 
cannot cast 2 votes this round.) 
•	 3 votes for every uncaptured Cardinal and/or Pope Lord 
the Player controls.
•	 Only votes from a Lord’s highest Title counts.
Example: Grady controls four areas in a Bishopric - 3 Villages 
(3 votes) and the Principal Village (2 votes). This gives him a 
total of 5 votes to cast for his Bishop choice.
Example: A Lord that is a Cardinal has both a Bishop’s Staff 
counter and a Cardinal’s Biretta counter next to his Lord card. 
Only the Cardinal’s 3 votes count.
1.4.1 Bishop Election Results
A candidate wins if he has a simple majority (he receives more 
votes than any of the other candidates). In case of a tie, nobody 
wins and the Title is not awarded this round. 
A Bishopric with an elected Bishop is considered Governed.
A Bishop is elected for life, unless excommunicated (1.7).
Example: Players are voting for the 
Bishop of Bishopric 5, which has 4 
Villages, one of which is the Principal 
Village of SIGY. David controls the 
villages of St Paul and Sigy, worth 3 
votes. Grady controls the two villages 
of St Ciers D’Abzac and Beaujeu, 
worth 2 votes. Kirsten controls the 
Bishop of Bourg, which gives her 2 
votes. Grady and Kirsten both cast 
their votes for Grady’s candidate Francois, giving him a 
total of 4 votes. David casts his 3 votes for another candidate. 
Francois has a simple majority and wins the Bishop’s election.
Example: François, is now the Bishop of SIGY. The Bishop’s 
Title Staff counter is placed to the right of his Lord card. 
If more than one Bishop’s Title is up for election, each election 
is held separately, beginning with the lowest number Bishopric. 
If a Bishop’s Title becomes available again (due to death or 
excommunication) and all of the Villages in the Bishopric are 
controlled by Players, a new election to appoint a successor 
occurs during the next Elections Phase.
The Bishop
•	 Must be an unmarried male. 
•	 May also have Fief Lord Titles (4.5).
•	 May become a Cardinal or the Pope.
•	 Adds 2 votes when electing another Bishop.
•	 May Tithe his own Bishopric by playing a Tax card 
(2.4.4).
•	 May attempt to stop an Uprising (10.1) in his Bishopric, 
even if he is not physically present. To attempt to stop an 
Uprising, the Bishop rolls a six-sided die (1D6): 
On a 1-4, the Uprising is stopped and the Uprising card is 
discarded.
On a 5-6, the attempt fails, the Uprising occurs, and the 
Bishop is stoned to death. The dead Bishop’s Staff Counter 
is placed back on the map. All of his Fief Titles are given to 
other Lords in his family (if possible).
1.5 Cardinals
Unlike the title of Bishop and Pope, Cardinal titles are not 
obtained through elections.
There are two ways to become a Cardinal: 
1. Three Cardinal Title cards are in the Lord 
Draw Deck. A Player drawing one of these 

-6-
cards may give the Title, any time during the game, to any 
Bishop already in play, making this Bishop a Cardinal.
Place the used Cardinal Title card under one of the available 
Cardinal Biretta (hat) counters at the right edge of the board 
game. Take this counter and place it above the new Cardinal 
Lord’s card.
2. A fourth purchasable Cardinal Biretta 
counter is placed during game setup on its 
own board space. This Title can be purchased 
for 5 Deniers during the Purchasing Phase 
(4.5) and must immediately be given to a 
Bishop.
Example: François, Bishop of SIGY 
has been elevated to Cardinal and can 
now vote during the Papal Election. 
The Cardinal Biretta counter is placed 
above the Lord’s card. Place the 
Cardinal card at the right edge of the 
game board, since it will need to be 
placed in the Lords Discard Pile if the 
Cardinal should die.
The Cardinal
•	 Must be a Bishop.
•	 May become the Pope.
•	 Adds 3 votes when electing a Bishop.
•	 Adds 1 vote when electing the Pope, for whom only 
Cardinals vote.
•	 If the Pope is in play - familys need the Pope’s consent to 
play Cardinal cards and to purchase the Cardinal Biretta 
counter. 
•	 May Tithe (2.4.6) any governed Bishopric, when 
playing a Tax card. The first Cardinal to do so has priority 
over the Pope and the other Cardinals, but the Bishop of 
the specific Bishopric still has priority over everyone.
•	 May attempt to stop an Uprising in any Bishopric by 
paying 3 Deniers, even if he is not physically present. The 
Cardinal rolls 1D6:
On a 1-4, the Uprising is stopped and the Uprising card 
is discarded.
On a 5-6, the attempt fails and the Uprising occurs. Note: 
The Cardinal does not die, since he sends out subordinates 
to do his dirty work! 
If the Cardinal does not want to spend 3 Deniers to stop 
an Uprising, he may still attempt to stop it as a Bishop, if 
the uprising occurs in his own Bishopric. But if he fails his 
die roll, he is stoned to death by the angry mob.
1.6 Bishop or Cardinal Dies 
If a Lord with a Bishop or Cardinal Title dies, the Bishop Staff 
and/or Cardinal Biretta counter is placed back on the game 
board and any associated Cardinal Title card is placed in the 
Lords Discard Pile. The purchasable Cardinal Biretta Counter 
is placed back on the game board.
1.7 Pope Election
If at least two uncaptured Cardinals are in play (they may not be 
Captives 6.2.3) and at least one uncaptured Bishop or Cardinal is 
candidate, an election is held.
Candidates: Only uncaptured Bishops and Cardinals can be 
elected Pope. 
Note: Elections are held in order. So a Bishop that was just 
previously elected could now be elected Pope.
Votes: Uncaptured Cardinals have one Vote each.
1.7.1 Pope Election Results
A candidate wins the election if he 
has the absolute majority (more 
than half of all votes). The Pope 
counter is placed next to the new 
Pope Lord’s card.
The Pope is elected for life. Should 
he die, a new Pope can be elected 
during the next Elections Phase.
Example : Cardinal françois, 
Bishop of SIGY has been elected 
Pope. The Pope counter is placed 
next to the Cardinal’s Biretta 
counter.
The Pope
•	 Must be a Bishop or Cardinal.
•	 Keeps all of his other Titles and is worth 1 VP.
•	 Adds 3 votes when electing a Bishop.
•	 Cardinal cards cannot be played and the Cardinal Biretta 
counter cannot be purchased without the Pope’s consent.
•	 May immediately annul a marriage, if a spouse requests 
it. He can only annul a King and Queen’s marriage if no 
Crown Prince (1.8.2) exists.
•	 Can Tithe ALL governed Bishoprics, by playing a Tax 
card. But Bishops and Cardinals have Tithing priority 
(2.4.6). Example: The Pope plays a Tax card to tithe all 
governed Bishoprics. The titular Bishop of Bishopric 3 
also plays a Tax card and has priority to Tithe his own 
Bishopric. The Pope then Tithes all remaining governed 
Bishoprics.
•	 Can excommunicate a Lord once per round, at any time. 
(The Pope could change his mind for a nice ‘donation’! - 
This would require a Diplomacy Token 8.0). However, there 
can only be one excommunicated Lord at a time.
•	 Excommunicated Lords cannot vote or be a candidate 
for elections. If the Lord is a Bishop and/or Cardinal, 
he loses these Eclesiatic Titles. The Excommunication 
marker is placed on the Lord’s card. The Pope can 
lift the excommunication at his discretion. If the 
Pope dies, the excommunication ends. Lords that 
had their excommunication lifted can attempt to 
regain their former Ecclesiastical Titles through normal 
elections, if the Bishopric does not have a new presiding 
Bishop and still meets the conditions for an election (1.4).
In 1305, Bertrand de Got, Bishop of Bordeaux (he was not a 
Cardinal!), was elected pope and named Pope Clement V. Due 
to a conflict between the Papacy and the French crown, he was 
the first of seven popes to reside in Avignon, France, instead of 
in Rome! 
Born in Villandraut Gironde, he died in 1314 at the age of 60 
years. During his pontificate, he helped destroy the Order of the 
Knights Templar.

-7-
1.8 King Election
If the King Title is available and at least one Lord is a candidate, 
an election is held.
Candidates: Any male Titled Lord without an Ecclesiastical 
title, who is not captured or excommunicated. 
Votes: Any Titled Lord, male or female, who is uncaptured, has 
1 vote - no matter how many or which Titles they have (Baron, 
Count, Duke, Queen, Bishop, Cardinal or Pope). 
Election Results: To be elected King, a candidate must receive 
a minimum of 3 Votes, have a simple majority (more votes than 
any other candidate), and the votes must include at least: 
•	 The vote of two Bishops, or 
•	 The vote of one Cardinal, or
•	 The vote of the Pope.
When a King is elected, place the King Crown 
counter above the Lord’s card. A King remains King 
his entire life.
1.8.1 Queen and Crown Prince
•	 If the King is married or marries later in the game, his wife 
immediately becomes the Queen. Place the Queen Crown 
counter above her Lord card.
•	 If the King dies and there is no Crown Prince (1.8.2), the 
Queen becomes the Queen Regent and gains the King’s 
Privileges (see King’s Privileges at right).
•	 A new King is elected normally during a Queen Regent’s 
reign, after which she loses her Queen Regent’s title, but none 
of her other titles.
1.8.2 Crown Prince
•	 If a new male Lord card is played by the Queen’s family and 
she is uncaptured, the Crown Prince counter may be placed 
on this new Lord’s card.
•	 If the King dies, the Crown Prince immediately becomes the 
new King and gains the King’s Titles. The former King’s Queen 
loses her Queen’s Title.
•	 If the Queen dies, the Crown Prince retains his title.
The King
•	Keeps all of his other Titles and is worth 1 VP.
King’s Privileges
•	 Can freely give, during the Purchase Phase, an unclaimed 
Fief Title to a Lord, if the Lord meets all of the conditions 
to buy the Fief Title. (The King can negotiate for some 
‘favor’ to do this, which could require a Diplomacy Token - 8.0) 
•	 Can Tallage an ungoverned Fief, when playing a Tax card.
The Queen
•	Keeps all of her Titles when she becomes the 
Queen.
Queen’s (Regent) Privileges
•	 Receives 2 Deniers during the Income Phase.
•	 Becomes the Queen Regent if the King dies and there 
is no Crown Prince. She gains the King’s Privileges listed 
above. 
•	 She is worth no VP.
•	 Can give birth to the Crown Prince, if the King is alive 
and she is not a Captive.
The Crown Prince Privileges
•	Is the family’s first-born son after a King is 
elected, so there may be only one Crown Prince 
in play.
•	 Loses Crown Prince status if he becomes a Bishop.
•	 Becomes King on the death of the current King. His 
mother loses her Queen title.
2.0 Phase 2. Discard, Draw & 
Play Cards
2.1 Discard and Draw Cards
Players may want a new Lord card (brown back) or Fortune 
cards (grey backs) that could benefit them during play. In turn 
order, a Player may:
•	 Discard some or all of his cards from his hand, showing 
On July 1st, 987, Hugues Capet, Count of Paris, was elected 
King of the Francs under the name Hugues the First. He was 
crowned by the Bishop of Reims within two days. A few months 
later, his son was elected to be his successor.
Lords 
Discard 
Pile
fortune 
& disaster 
Discard Pile
Lords 
draw deck
fortune 
& disaster 
draw deck
disaster card track

-8-
them and placing them face up in the corresponding Discard 
Piles. A Discard Pile may not be inspected. 
•	 Draw new cards, when he is finished discarding cards. He may 
draw up to two Fortune cards OR one Lord and one Fortune 
card. He may never draw two Lords cards. Example: Dave draws 
a Fortune card, looks at it, and then decides to draw a Lord card. 
A Player may only hold up to 3 cards in his hand. 
Disaster 
Card
Card
When a Player wants a new Fortune 
card, he must draw from the Fortune 
& Disaster Card Deck, which 
includes both grey backed Fortune 
cards and black backed Disaster 
Some Fortune Cards affect all 
Players in the Bishopric they are 
played on and include ‘Bountiful 
Harvest’ (2.4.2), ‘Good Weather’ (2.4.3), and ‘Taxes’ (2.4.4) 
cards. Other Fortune cards only affect individual Lords or 
Villages and include ‘Uprising’ (10.1), ‘Secret Passage’ (10.2), 
‘Assassination’ (10.3), and ‘Justice’ (10.4).
Disaster cards include ‘Heavy Rain’, ‘Famine’ and ‘Plague’ and 
affect all Players in the Bishopric they are played on.
A Player wanting to draw a Fortune card may have to first draw 
a Disaster card, if it is at the top of the Draw Deck. Disaster 
cards do not count towards a Player’s card draw or hand limit. 
He continues drawing cards until he draws a grey backed 
Fortune card. 
If a Player draws a Disaster card, he places it face down, 
without looking, on the first empty Disaster Card Track space 
numbered 1, 2 and 3. If all three Disaster Track Spaces are 
filled, a newly drawn Disaster card is discarded face up onto 
A Player does not have to discard or draw cards, if he likes the 
cards in his hand or if he is trying to avoid drawing Disaster 
Once a Player has completed discarding and drawing cards, it 
is the next Player’s turn, until all Players have had the chance to 
discard and/or draw cards. 
Example: Kirsten draws one Lord card and now wants to 
draw a Fortune card for her second card. However the top 
card on the Fortune & Disaster Draw Deck is a black backed 
Disaster Card. She draws this Disaster card, and without 
looking, places it face down on an open Disaster Card Track 
space. The next card is also a Disaster Card, which she places 
in the next open Disaster Card Track space. Finally, there is a 
grey backed Fortune card, which she draws into her hand.
2.2 Replenish a Depleted Deck
When a Player wishes to draw a new card and the ‘Lord’ 
or ‘Fortune & Disaster’ Draw Deck is empty, reshuffle the 
corresponding Discard Pile and place these cards face down 
on the appropriate Draw Deck space.
Note: Returning Lord cards represent new Lords who have the 
same name as a predecessor.
2.3 Resolving Disaster Cards
Once all Players have discarded and drawn cards, any Disaster 
cards that were drawn and placed face down on the Disaster 
Card Track are turned face up and resolved consecutively.
Note: We suggest that in a game with new Players, Disaster 
cards are discarded instead of being resolved in the first round. 
Turn the first Disaster Card. Roll 1D6 to determine which 
Bishopric is affected by the disaster. (Remember that each 
Bishopric is numbered along the edge of the map inside the 
Bishop’s Mitre.) Place the Disaster card along the edge of the 
Map next to the affected Bishopric’s number.
A die result of 6 is a false alarm and the Disaster did not occur. 
The Disaster card is discarded.
After the first Disaster card has been placed, turn the second 
Disaster card and roll 1D6 to determine which Bishopric it 
affects, and so on. The same type of Disaster card may not be 
placed in the same Bishopric more than once. If this should 
happen, re-roll the die.
Two different types of Disaster cards may affect the same 
Bishopric.
There are three types of Disaster cards: Heavy Rain, Famine 
and Plague. They affect all Players in the Bishopric they are 
played on, until the end of the round.
2.3.1 Heavy Rain (4 Cards)
No movement or battles are allowed in the 
affected Bishopric. This applies to all Villages 
in the Bishopric, and also movement into 
and out of the Bishopric.
A Good Weather card (2.4.3) cancels Heavy 
Rain and both cards are discarded.
A Player may not play a Bountiful Harvest 
card (2.4.2) on a bishopric with Heavy Rain. 
Uprisings (10.1) and Secret Passage movement 
(10.2) are not affected by Heavy Rain.
2.3.2 Famine (4 Cards)
Mills in the Bishopric do not produce income 
during the Income Phase.
A Bountiful Harvest card (2.4.2) cancels a 
Famine card and both cards are discarded.
The Player may not play a Good Weather 
card (2.4.3) on a bishopric with Famine. 
Note! Famine can cause an Uprising 
(10.1).
2.3.3 Plague (2 Cards)
All Villages in the Bishopric are affected by 
the Plague! Players immediately resolve the 
following:
For each Lord in the Bishopric, roll 1D6. On 
a die result of 1, 2, or 3, that Lord dies! 
All armies in the Bishopric automatically lose 
half of their units in each Village. Knights 
and Men at Arms count the same, and losses 
are rounded down. The Lord of these Troops 
decides which counters are removed. Siege Engines are not 
affected by the Plague.
Example: Gunter has an army in a Village hit by the Plague. 
His army consists of 3 Men at Arms and 2 Knights. 3 + 2 = 5. 
Divided in half and rounded down, he must remove 2 Troops. 
He decides to remove 2 Men at Arms.
In another Village, he only has 1 Men at Arms. 1 divided in half 
and rounded down, equals 0. So he does not remove the Men at 
Arms from this Village.
Note: Concentrated populations helped spread the Plague. 
The more the Player’s units are centralized, the more losses the 
Player can suffer from the Plague. 
Any Lord entering a plague infested Bishopric must 
immediately roll to see if he/she dies. A Lord leaving and 

-9-
re-entering the same Bishopric does not roll again. 
A Lord leaving a plagued Bishopric and entering an adjacent 
plagued Bishopric does not roll again. 
Troops entering a plagued Bishopric lose half of their number, 
rounded down. 
New Troops placed in the Bishopric during the Purchase 
Phase are not affected by the Plague. Note: These new units are 
considered to be recruited from Plague survivors.
A new Lord played from the Player’s hand onto the Player’s 
Noble Family Board during the Play Cards portion of this 
phase (2.4.1) is not affected by the Plague. 
Disaster cards remain in effect until they are removed and 
discarded to the Fortune & Disaster Discard Pile at the end of 
the round (7.0).
2.4 Play Cards
Once all Disaster cards have been placed on Bishoprics, Players 
may play any number of Lord and Fortune cards from their 
hands in turn order. 
All Fortune cards have one of two symbols at the top of their 
card. 
Cards with a white card symbol 
can be played only at this 
time. If not played now, Players may hold the cards, but have 
to wait until the next round’s ‘Play Cards Phase’ to play these 
Cards with a green lightning symbol 
 are Opportunity cards 
and may be played at any time during any phase except during 
the Draw phase (See card descriptions in sections 9.0 and 10.0).
2.4.1 Lords (18 cards)
PhiliPPe
Playing a Lord card allows the Player to gain 
a new Family member. A Player is limited to 
4 Lords in his Family. He may hold additional 
Lords in his card hand. New Lords may only 
be placed during the Play Cards Phase. 
The Player places a new Lord card on his 
Family Board, finds the associated Lord 
Token and places it in any Stronghold (4.2) or 
Fortified City (4.3) he controls. If the Player 
has no Stronghold or Fortified City, place the new Lord in any 
Village occupied by another of his Lords. If no other Lords are 
available, place the new Lord in any Village he controls, then 
in any empty uncontrolled Village or Allied Player controlled 
Village. The new Lord is ready to play. 
Note: Lords may occupy a Village without Troops, but are very 
vulnerable to Uprisings (10.1) or Battles. During an Uprising they 
are immediately killed and during a Battle immediately captured.
2.4.2 Bountiful Harvest (5 cards)
Bountiful Harvest can be played on a 
Bishopric without Heavy Rain (2.3.1):
•	 To cancel a Famine card located in this 
Bishopric. Both the Bountiful Harvest and 
the Famine cards are immediately discarded.
•	 If the Bishopric contains no Famine card, 
then place the Bountiful Harvest card on the 
Map next to the Bishopric’s number. Players 
now receive an additional +1 Denier income 
for each Mill that they control in this Bishopric.
The Bountiful Harvest affects all families in the Bishopric.
Example: A Bountiful Harvest card is played on a Bishopric 
with Famine. The Famine card and the Bountiful Harvest card 
are discarded. The Famine does not occur.
2.4.3 Good Weather (5 cards)
Good Weather can be played on a Bishopric 
without Famine (2.3.2):
•	 To cancel a Heavy Rain card located in this 
Bishopric. Both the Good Weather and the 
Heavy Rain cards are immediately discarded.
•	 If the Bishopric contains no Heavy Rain 
card, then place the Good Weather card on 
the Map next to the Bishopric’s number. 
Players now receive an additional +1 Denier 
income for each Mill that they control in this Bishopric.
The Good Weather affects all families in the Bishopric. 
Example: A Good Weather card could be played to remove 
Heavy Rain. Then a Bountiful Harvest card could be played to 
increase Mill income.
2.4.4 Taxes (5 cards)
A Tax card can be played on a Fief as a Tallage 
or on a Bishopric as a Tithe, even if the Lord 
is captured!
White player 
tax marker
When played, the Tax card 
is discarded and the Player 
places one of his Tax 
markers on the Fief or 
Bishopric it will affect.
Note! A Tallage or Tithe can cause an 
Uprising (10.1).
2.4.5 Tallage can be played by:
•	 A Fief Lord on his own Fief, or
•	 The King on any one ungoverned Fief (the King need not 
control any of its Villages).
The taxing Player places one of his Tax markers on the Fief.
During the Income Phase, this Player receives: 
•	 +2 Deniers for each Village in the Fief, even if controlled by 
other Players.
Example: Kirsten’s Lord is King and plays a Tax card as a 
Royal Tallage on the Duchy of Bourg. Of the four Villages 
in Bourg, Grady controls 3 Villages and David controls 
1 Village. During the Income Phase, Kirsten will receive 8 
Deniers (2 Deniers for each Village). Grady and David will 
still receive their normal income of 1 Denier per controlled 
Village (3.0), so 3 Deniers for Grady and 1 Denier for David.
2.4.6 Tithe can be played by:
•	 A Bishop on HIS own Bishopric, 
•	 A Cardinal on ANY one governed Bishopric,
•	 The Pope on ALL governed Bishoprics. 
The taxing player plays a Tax card and then places one of his 
Tax markers on the Bishopric Mitre icon of the Bishopric he 
wishes to tithe.
If several Players have played Tax cards to Tithe the same 
Bishopric, only one will receive the Mill incomes, in the 
Tallage and Tithes
In the Middle Ages, the Tallage was a tax placed by a Lord on 
his vassals in exchange for his protection. In 1439, the Royal 
Tallage was created in order to finance France’s army for the 
Hundred Years War. 
The Tithe was a tax imposed by the Church, which took 
one-tenth (or more) of all agricultural and product income.

-10-
following order of priority:
First the Bishop > then a Cardinal > then the Pope.
During the Income Phase, the Tithe allows the taxing Player to 
collect all of the Mill incomes in the Bishopric instead of the 
Players that control those Mills. 
2.4.7 Multiple Different Fortune Cards
Multiple Different Fortune Cards may be played in the same 
Bishopric. But an identical Fortune Card’s ‘income bonus’ may only 
be applied once.
Example: A Player may play a Bountiful Harvest and a Good 
Weather card in the same Bishopric. Each Mill in this Bishopric 
will now produce an additional +2 Deniers bonus during the 
Income Phase, for a total of 4 Deniers per Mill.
Example: Famine has hit Bishopric 1. This Famine would affect 
David. Luckily he has two ‘Bountiful Harvest’ Fortune cards 
in his hand. He plays his first Bountiful Harvest card to cancel 
the Famine. He then plays its second Bountiful Harvest card so 
that each Mill in Bishopric 1 produces an additional +1 Denier 
bonus during the Income Phase.
If there had been no famine in the Bishopric, David could not 
have played the second Bountiful Harvest card on it.
3.0 Phase 3. Income
Every Player collects the following incomes: (This may be done 
simultaneously by experienced Players.)
•	 1 Denier for each Village he controls (5.1).
•	 2 Deniers for each Mill that is on a Village he controls.
•	 Each Mill produces an additional +1 Denier for each 
Bountiful Harvest and/or Good Weather card currently 
affecting the Bishopric in which the Mills are located (2.4.7).
•	 A Tallage gives the taxing Player an additional +2 Deniers 
per Village in the Fief (even if controlled by other Players).
•	 A Tithe takes all Mill income away from the Players that 
control the Mills and gives it to the taxing Player (2.4.6).
•	 2 Deniers for the Queen Title.
Once all Players have collected their income, all Tax markers 
and Fortune cards are removed from the map. Disaster cards 
remain on the map until the end of the round (7.0).
4.0 Phase 4. Purchase
Each Player now purchases and places, in turn order, as 
many Troops, Buildings, and Titles he can afford and wishes 
to purchase. Troops and Buildings are limited to the number 
supplied in the game.
Ransoms (6.2.4) are paid and Captives are freed before any 
Players’ purchases.
4.1 Troops
Men at Arms cost 1 Denier each, add 1 
Strength point in battle and take 1 Hit to kill.
Historical Note: Men at Arms were foot 
soldiers in the service of a Lord, Bishop or 
Fortified City.
Knights cost 3 Deniers each, add 3 Strength 
points in battle and take 3 Hits to kill.
Historical 
Note: 
Knights 
were 
Noble 
mounted warriors.
All newly purchased Troops are immediately 
placed on Villages that are occupied by 
a Player’s uncaptured Lords (including besieging Lords 6.4.1), 
Strongholds, and/or Fortified Cities. There is no limit to how 
many Troops a Village can hold. However, during the Purchase 
Phase, the Player can only add up to four newly purchased 
Troops to each Village. (It is forbidden to place new Troops 
into besieged Strongholds or Cities.)
Example: David controls the Village of St Médard with Lord 
Thierry, 4 Men at Arms and 3 Knights. He wants to reinforce 
this Army. He purchases 3 Men at Arms and 2 Knights for a 
total cost of 9 Deniers (3 x 1 + 2 x 3). He can place only 4 
new Troop counters in a Village. He decides to place 2 Men at 
Arms and 2 Knights in St Médard and his last Men at Arms 
in another Village.
The St Médard army now consists of 6 Men at Arms and 5 
Knights. 
4.2 Buildings
Strongholds cost 10 Deniers each.
A Stronghold counter is placed on a Village 
controlled by the Player. There can only be 
one Stronghold on any Village. Control of 
Strongholds can change (5.1), but they can 
only be destroyed by an Uprising (10.1).
Mills cost 3 Deniers each.
A Mill counter is placed on a Village controlled 
by the Player. A Village can have up to 2 Mills.
4.3 Fief Titles
A Fief’s Title may be purchased by a Player if he controls all 
of the Villages in the Fief and at least one of these Villages 
contains a Stronghold.
The cost of a Fief Title is determined by multiplying the 
number of Villages located in the Fief by 2 Deniers.
Example: The Fief with the green 
colored background on the right 
side of the map includes 3 Villages 
(one of which is the Principal 
Village of Tournus).
This Fief Title would cost 3 x 2 = 6 
Deniers.
A Fief with 4 Villages is called 
a Duchy, one with 3 Villages a 
County, and one with 2 Villages a 
Barony.
If there is a King, he may during his 
turn choose to give an unclaimed 
Fief Title to any Lord at no cost 
during this phase, if the Lord 
controls all of the Villages in the Fief and at least one of these 
Villages contains a Stronghold.
The Fief’s Title Crown counter, found on the Fief map space, is 
placed above one of the Player’s Lord cards. 
This Fief is now considered Governed.
The Player chooses a Stronghold in his new 
governed Fief and flips the counter over to 
its Fortified City side. 
Note: Fortified Cities cannot be purchased. 
They are only created when a Player 
acquires the Title to a Fief. A Fief may never 
have more than one Fortified City.

-11-
If another Player takes control of this Fortified City, he also 
takes the Fief Title.
A Lord can have several Titles (but only up to two Fief Titles), 
and usually keeps them until he dies (4.3.1).
Example: One could have Charles, Duke of Bourg, Count 
and Bishop of Sigy.
If a Lord has several Fief Titles, he may transfer his Fief Titles 
to other Lords in his family during the Purchase Phase, but he 
must keep the Title of his largest Fief for himself. Largest to 
smallest Title order:
•	 Duchy > County > Barony.
Example: Lord Charles has two Fief Titles: a County and a 
Barony. He can transfer Barony title, but must keep the County 
title.
4.3.1 Titled Lord Dies
When a Titled Lord dies for any reason (Plague 2.3.3, Battle 6.2, 
Uprising 10.1, Assassination 10.3 or Justice 10.4), his Fief Title is 
immediately transfered to another Lord or Lady in his family.
If the Lord was the last living Lord of the family and he happens 
to be married to a Lord of another family, the Fief Title is given 
to his/her spouse. If Troops are in the Fortified City of the Fief 
whose Title is given to a spouse, then all of these Troops are 
replaced with equal Troops from the spouse’s family.
If the Lord was the last living Lord of the family and he was not 
married, the Title Counter is placed back on the map.
This Title can be recovered (at no cost) by this family as soon 
as a new Lord is born and the family still controls the Fief’s 
Fortified City.
Note: This Fief Title can be gained by another family if they 
take control of the Fief’s Fortified City!
4.4 Cardinal Title
This Cardinal Title counter costs 5 Deniers.
There is only one Cardinal Biretta (hat) 
Title counter that can be purchased (the other three Cardinal 
Title cards need to be drawn from the Lords Card Draw Deck).
When a Cardinal Title card is played or the one Cardinal Biretta 
Title counter is purchased, immediatly place the respective 
Biretta counter above a Lord Bishop’s card.
5.0 Phase 5. Movement
A Player moves all of his uncaptured Lords and Troops, before 
the next Player moves all of his uncaptured Lords and Troops.
Movement is along the roads from Village to Village. Moving 
from one Village to an adjacent Village is considered one Move. 
Lords may take up to 2 Moves during the Movement Phase. 
A Lord can move to a Village and then return to where he 
started, or he can move two Villages away. A female Lord with 
the d’ARC Title can take up to 3 Moves during the Movement 
When moving, a Lord can take Troops with him. Troops can 
be dropped off or picked up by a Lord as he moves. This is the 
only way Troops can move. Troops cannot be relayed between 
different Lords to extend their movement. 
A Lord and his Troops may move into an unoccupied or 
occupied Village.
Example: Grady moves his white Lord Beaudoin and his 
three Men at Arms from Blaye to Charolles (Move 1). He 
leaves one Men at Arms in Charolles and moves with the 
rest of his Troops on to L’épervier (Move 2).
MOVE 1
MOVE 2
If a Lord wishes to pass through a Village occupied by an 
opponent, the Lord must get the opponent’s permission (even 
if the opponent is an ally). Place the moving Lord and Troops 
on the road leading into the Village.
If the opponent gives permission, the Lord may continue 
movement in any direction, if the Lord has a Move available.
If the opponent denies the Lord permission, the Lord may 
return to where he moved from (if the Lord has a Move 
available), or the Lord can remain in the Village with the 
opposing Troops. (The Lord that moved the Troops into the 
Village may NOT abandon his Troops by moving away, leaving 
his Troops stranded in the enemy Village!)
After movement has been completed, opposing Troops remaining 
in a Village are not required to fight. If they do, a Battle will occur in 
the next Battle Phase (6.0).
If a Player moves after opposing Troops moved into his Village, 
the Player can exit the Village along any road except along the 
road the opposing Troops entered from (unless that opponent 
gives the Player permission to move through his Troops or the 
Player plays a Secret Passage card (10.2)).
A Lord and his Troops may not leave a Stronghold or Fortified 
City that is under Siege (6.4) except with the besieging Player’s 
permission or by playing a Secret Passage card.
5.1 Controlling a Village
A Village is either Uncontrolled or is Controlled by one Player. 
Village control cannot be shared!
At the beginning of a game, most Villages are uncontrolled. A 
Village becomes controlled as soon as a Player occupies it with 
Lords and/or Troops.
Previous example: Grady controls the Villages of Charolles 
and L’Épervier after his move. But he left Blaye empty, so no 
longer controls it.
Opposing Lords without Troops may occupy the same Village, 
but the first to arrive in the Village controls it.
A Lord without Troops can take control of a Village, but is 
vulnerable to capture by opposing Troops or immediate death 
during an Uprising (10.1).

-12-
If allied or opposing Player Troops occupy the same Village, 
the first to arrive controls it. Players that arrive afterwards place 
their counters on the road leading into the Village, indicating 
they do not control it.
The controlling Player may transfer control of a Village to 
another Player with a Lord and/or Troops occupying the 
Village.
Once a Fief Title has been purchased, the Fief is Governed.
Unoccupied Villages in a Governed Fief are considered 
controlled by the Fief’s Titled Lord.
The presence of a Stronghold or Fortified City on a Village does 
not change control rules. Control of a Stronghold or Fortified 
City is linked with the control of the Village.
5.2 Cavalcades
If the Player wants to move through opponent Troops without 
permission from their Lord, the Player can try to fight his 
way through during the Movement Phase with a Cavalcade. 
Cavalcades allow Players to battle and then keep moving.
A Cavalcade may be used to:
•	 Exit from a besieged Stronghold/Fortified City or,
•	 Exit a Village along a road occupied by an opponent or,
•	 Pass through a Village occupied by an opponent.
Cavalcades may not pass through a Stronghold or a Fortified 
City.
A Cavalcade may only be attempted by an Army composed 
exclusively of Lords and Knights. This Army can only initiate 
a Cavalcade if it has another move remaining after the 
Cavalcade Battle. A Cavalcade Battle is resolved immediately, 
not during the Battle phase.
Example: An Army initiates a Cavalcade on its first Move, wins 
the Battle, and moves on to the next Village with his second 
move.
The Defender against a Cavalcade receives a +1 Hit Bonus 
for each Battle Die he rolls (6.2).
Example: The Defender has 2 Knights and 3 Men at Arms. He 
rolls 3 hits with two Battle Dice (6.2), then adds his 2 Hit Bonus 
for a total of 5 hits against the Cavalcading Attacker.
If the Cavalcading army wins the battle and at least one Lord 
is still alive, the army must complete the Cavalcade move. The 
Player may not decide to stop the army in the Village where 
the Cavalcade took place. But he may leave a Knight behind to 
occupy the newly conquered Village before moving on.
If a Player moves into a Village controlled by an opponent 
using his last move, the Battle is not a Cavalcade and is instead 
resolved in the Battle Phase (6.0).
A Cavalcade may be initiated from the Village the Player’s 
Knights begin their movement from, if another Player’s Troops 
moved into the Village along a road the Player wants to move 
on.
Example: The white Lord Beaudoin and 2 Knights move 
from Blaye to Charolles (Move 1). A Cavalcade Battle takes 
place immediately, which the white army wins without a loss. 
The blue Men at Arms counter is destroyed and removed from 
the map.
MOVE 1
MOVE 2
With his second Move, Lord Beaudoin leaves a Knight in 
Charolles and then moves on to L’Epervier with his 
remaining Knight. If the blue defender in L’Epervier does not 
move out of this Village, a battle could occur during the Battle 
6.0 Phase 6. Battles
In turn order, Players may declare a Battle in each Village where 
they and opposing Players have Troops. Opposing Players do 
not have to Battle each other and can declare a Truce (6.3), 
which can be broken at any time. A Battle occurs immediately. 
After a Battle is resolved, the Player whose turn it is decides in 
which Village, if any, he resolves his next Battle.
Note: A Player is allowed to attack an ally.
Troops without a Lord can not initiate a Battle, but they can 
defend themselves if attacked.
If three or more Players have Troops in a Village, some may 
decide to fight together against other opposing Players. They 
combine their Troops and the Player with the most Strength 
Points (6.2) decides which Troops take hits and which Lord 
takes Captives. Allies may betray each other anytime during 
the Battle, even switching sides mid-battle!
If only opposing Lords are in a Village, they do not Battle. 
The first to arrive in the Village retains control of it.
Example: Grady and Gunter are allied thru marriage and 
occupy Blaye together. Kirsten moves her Troops into Blaye 
to attack Gunter. She convinces Grady to join her side and 
he agrees. They combine their Troop strength points (6.2) 
and defeat Gunter, killing Grady’s spouce in the process. 
Grady is no longer allied to Gunter.
6.1 Length of a Battle
A Battle can last several battle rolls. A Battle ends when: 
•	 One side’s army is eliminated, or
•	 One army surrenders (6.3), or
•	 All involved Players decide to end the Battle by declaring a 
Truce (6.3), or
•	 3 battle rolls in a row result in no losses.
Note: A Player attacking an opponent that is in the safety of 
a Stronghold or a Fortified City can alone decide to end the 
Battle. The defending opponent can force the continuation of 
the Battle by giving up the safety of his Stronghold or Fortified 
City and fighting in the open. 
6.2 Battle Progression
Each side counts up its Strength Points (SPs).
A Player receives:
•	 1 SP per Men at Arms counter.
•	 3 SPs per Knight counter.
•	 1 SP for every male Lord.

-13-
•	 1 SP for every female Titled Lord.
A side’s SP total determines the number of Battle Dice that 
Player may roll.
•	 1 to 6 SPs.............
•	 7 to 12 SPs..........
•	 13 or more SPs...
The female d’ARC Lord Title (9.1) automatically adds +1 
 
Battle Die. This is the only case where a Player may roll up to 
4 Battle Dice.
Allies in a Battle combine their SPs to determine their Battle 
Dice total.
6.2.1 Attacker Penalties
-1 
 Battle Die if the defender is in a Stronghold.
-2 
 Battle Dice if the defender is in a Fortified City.
These Penalties are cancelled by Siege Engines (6.4.2). Siege 
Engines participating in an attack cancel Attacker Penalties by 
up to 2 
 Battle Dice.
A Secret Passage card (10.2.2) played by the attacker cancels 
all Attacker Penalties for that Battle!
Attacker Penalties do not apply when the army occupying a 
Stronghold or Fortified City attacks out at their besieging 
opponent.
Example: David occupies a Stronghold and is attacked by 
Grady who has a 15 SP army. Grady’s 15 SPs = 3 Battle Dice. 
But he is attacking a Stronghold, which imposes a 1 Battle Die 
Penalty. Grady attackes with only 2 Battle Dice. 
6.2.2 Taking Losses
Players roll their Battle Dice and losses are taken from both 
sides simultaneously. Each Player chooses which of his units 
to remove, but must remove as many SPs as possible up to the 
number of hits taken.
Battle Dice have faces with either one f, two 
ff , or three fff symbols on them. Each f on a 
face represents one hit.
It takes 1 hit to kill a Men at Arms, 3 hits 
to kill a Knight, and 1 hit to kill a Lord. A 
Knight can only be killed if a total of 3 or 
more hits are rolled. If only 1 or 2 hits are rolled, a Knight is 
not affected.
All hits that can be taken, must be taken. Players can choose 
a mix of Men at Arms and Knights as casualties. Lords are hit 
and killed last after all other Troops are dead, so if there are 
insufficient hits to kill the last Knight, then the Lord does not 
die even if there are 1 or 2 hits left to take.
If a Player rolls enough hits to kill all enemy Troops, but not 
enough to also kill any remaining Lords, the Lords are taken 
Captive (6.2.3).
Continuing with the previous example: Grady rolls his two 
Battle Dice resulting in a 1f and a 3f, for a total of 4 hits. David’s 
defending army consists of 2 Men at Arms and 3 Knights. 
David has no choice and must remove 1 Men at Arms and 1 
Knight to match the 4 hits.
But David gets to roll at the same time. His 2 Men at Arms 
and 3 Knights have a total of 11 SPs = 2 Battle Dice. He rolls a 
3f and a 2f = 5 hits. Grady loses 2 Men at Arms and 1 Knight.
Troops remain on both sides and Grady does not want to stop 
his attack, so the Battle continues and both Players will roll 
again.
Grady has only 10 SPs remaining (15 - 5 losses), so rolls only 
1 Battle Die (because of the Stronghold Attacker Penalty).
David has 7 SPs left (11 - 4 losses) and rolls 2 Battle Dice.
A further example: Gunter is attacked and he has the 
following defending units: male Titled Lord Gauvain, female 
Untitled Lord Blanche, 1 Men at Arms and 1 Knight.
If his opponent rolls:
•	 2 hits - the first hit kills the Men at Arms. The second hit is 
ignored, since it takes 3 hits to kill a Knight, and Lords are not 
affected until all Troops with them are killed. 
•	 3 hits - the Knight is killed and the Men at Arms and Lords 
are not affected. (If there were 1 Knight and 3 Men at Arms, the 
Player would choose which Troops to remove.)
•	 4 hits - The Men at Arms and Knight are killed, and both Lords 
are taken Captive. 
•	 5 hits - All Troops and one Lord are killed, and the other Lord 
is taken Captive. 
•	 6 hits - All Troops and both Lords are killed.
6.2.3 Captives
When a Lord is taken Captive, lay the Lord’s 
Figure token on its side and place a Captive 
marker on his Lord card. Captives still count 
towards a Player’s four Lord limit.
The Captive is now under his captor’s control 
and his captor can move the Captive along with his Lord’s 
Troops. The Lord remains a Captive as long as he occupies the 
same space as his captor’s Troops and/or Lords. A Captive may 
never be killed by his captors, unless an Assassination card 
(10.3) is played!
A Captive may escape using a Secret Passage card. He can also 
be set free by his Captor for any reason, including the payment 
of a Ransom (6.2.4).
A Captive becomes free if all of his captor’s Troops are killed 
in a Battle.
A Captive keeps his Titles and incomes, but cannot be named a 
candidate for any position or vote in any election.
If the Queen is captive, she cannot play the Crown Prince 
marker when a new male Lord is played by her family (1.8.1).
6.2.4 Ransom
Ransoms are paid at the beginning of the Purchase Phase (4.0), 
before any other purchases, including new Troops, Buildings 
or Titles. A Captive’s Ransom is 2 Deniers, plus 2 Deniers per 
Title he holds. Example: A Lord who is both a Bishop and a 
Baron is worth 6 Deniers.
Paying a Ransom is mandatory, if the Player has enough 
money to pay the full price at the beginning of the Purchase 
Phase. A Captor must accept a full Ransom amount during the 
Purchase Phase and free the Captive.
However, a Captor may accept or refuse a lower Ransom 
amount. (Negotiating for a lower Ransom payment does not 
require a Diplomacy marker.)
If the Player does not have enough Deniers to pay the full 
Ransom, he may then use all of his Deniers for other purchases. 
Example : Gunter’s Lord Baudoin is Grady’s Captive. His 
ransom value is 6 Deniers. At the beginning of the Purchase 
Phase, Gunter has 10 Deniers. He may negotiate with Grady 
to pay less than 6 Deniers, but if Grady disagrees, he must pay 
the 6 Deniers to free Baudoin and Grady must accept.
A freed Lord is placed on one of his family’s Strongholds or 
Fortified Cities. If the Player has no Stronghold or Fortified 
City, place the freed Lord in any Village occupied by another of 
his Lords. If no other Lords are available, place the freed Lord 
in any Village he controls, then in any empty uncontrolled 
Village or Allied Player controlled Village.

-14-
6.3 End of a Battle
•	 At the end of a Battle Roll, if both sides have Troops 
remaining, an Army can decide to surrender. All remaining 
Troops of the surrendering Army are disbanded and taken 
off the map. All Lords in the surrendering Army are taken 
Captive.
•	 A Battle can also be ended by declaring a Truce. In this case, 
all Lords and Troops from both armies remain in the Village 
and the original Player that controlled the Village keeps 
control. However, control of the Village can be transfered 
between Players as part of a Truce agreement.
•	 If a Player is attacking a Stronghold or Fortified City, he 
alone can decide to end the Battle after a Roll. In this case, the 
Stronghold or Fortified City remains under siege. (The defender 
could force the continuation of the Battle by leaving the safety of 
his Stronghold or Fortified City and attacking out.)
•	 If only Lords remain on both sides, they all remain in the 
Village and the Battle is over. Village control does not change.
•	 If no side takes any losses for 3 Battle Rolls in a row, the 
Battle ends and all Troops remain in the Village. Village 
control does not change.
If both armies are destroyed and no Troops or Lords remain in 
a Village, the Village is controlled by the Fief’s Titled Lord (5.1).
6.4 Sieges and Siege Engines
After resolving his battles, a Player that 
still has Troops in a Village with an 
opponent occupied Stronghold or 
Fortified City may initiate a Siege. He 
declares a Siege and adds a 1 Battle Die 
Siege Engine counter to his besieging 
troops.
If during the next round this Player decides to continue the 
Siege after he has resolved his battles, he will flip the 1 Battle 
Die Siege Engine counter to its 2 Battle Dice Siege Engine 
side.
If allies each have Troops and are besieging a Stronghold/
Fortified Village together, they may each place a 1 Battle 
Die Siege Engine counter, for a total 2 Battle Dice bonus (so 
alliances are effective during Sieges).
Example: Kirsten moved her 
white 
Lord 
and 
Knight 
to 
L’Epervier, but feels that her 
Troops are not strong enough to 
attack because of the Stronghold 
Attacker Penalty.
She decides not to attack, but 
instead to besiege the Stronghold 
and adds a 1 Battle Die Siege 
Engine counter to her Troops.
Example: Kirsten attacked L’Epervier, but after one Battle 
Roll felt that her chances of winning were not good. She decides 
to call off the attack and begins a siege by placing a 1 Battle Die 
Siege Engine counter with her Troops.
6.4.1 Siege Effects
•	 A Besieged Village is still under the control of the Besieged 
Lord.
•	 Incomes are not collected from a Besieged Village or the Mills 
in it.
•	 Besieged Troops cannot move out of the Village during the 
Movement Phase, unless using a Secret Passage (10.2.1) card 
or making a Cavalcade move (5.2). 
•	 The besieged Lord and his allies may move additional 
Troops directly into the besieged Stronghold or Fortified City 
from an adjacent Village without having to fight the Besiegers.
•	 The Besieged Player may not add new Troops to his besieged 
Army. However, he may add new Lords.
•	 The besieging Player may add new Troops into this Village.
•	 The besieging Player may Pillage the Mills during the 
Pillage phase (6.5).
A besieged Player can decide to initiate a Battle, but in doing so 
his units lose the protection of the Stronghold or Fortified City 
and its Attacker Penalties. A normal Battle (6.0) takes place.
A Siege may be ended at any time by the Besieger, in which case 
all Siege Engines in this Village are removed from the map.
6.4.2 Siege Engine Effects in Battle
A 1 Battle Die Siege Engine cancels 1 Attacker Penalty, so 
Players attacking a Stronghold have no Attacker Penalty and 
lose only 1 Battle Die when attacking a Fortified City (6.2.1). 
A 2 Battle Dice Siege Engine cancels 2 Attacker Penalties, so 
Players have no Attacker Penalties when attacking a Stronghold 
or Fortified City. 
•	 Siege Engines do not add to a side’s SP total (6.2), they only 
cancel Attacker Penalties. 
•	 Siege Engines do not take hits. They only represent a Player’s 
ability to lower the Attacker Penalty.
•	 When a Player moves all of his Troops out of the Village or 
if all of his Troops are destroyed, his Siege Engine counter is 
removed from the map.
Continued from the previous example: Kirsten besieged 
L’Epervier last round and decides to attack this round with her 
Lord, Knight, and Siege Engine. She will not lose a Battle Die, 
because her 1 Battle Die Siege Engine cancels the Stronghold’s 
1 Attacker Penalty. 
If instead Kirsten decided to besiege L’Epervier another 
round, she would flip her 1 Battle Die Siege Engine counter 
to its 2 Battle Dice Siege Engine counter side. In future attacks 
against Stronghold L’Epervier, her 2 Battle Dice Siege Engine 
would cancel the Stronghold’s one Attacker Penalty. The Siege 
Engine gives her NO additional benefits or Battle Dice.
6.5 Pillage
When ALL Battles are resolved, Players (in Player order) may 
pillage all Mills on Villages they control or are besieging. A 
pillaged Mill is removed from the map and the Pillager takes 1 
Denier from the game stockpile.
Note: Players may wish to pillage to destroy an opponent’s 
future income. Or a Player may wish to initiate a scorched 
earth policy by pillaging his own Mills!
7.0 Phase 7. End Round
When a round ends, all Disaster cards remaining on the map 
are discarded to the Fortune & Disaster Discard Pile (2.2).
Victory conditions are now checked. A Player has:
for each Fief Title he controls (4.3),
 for controlling the King Title (1.8),
 for controlling the Pope Title (1.7). 
Players can win alone or as part of an alliance.
If there is no game winner, pass the First Player card to the left 
and a new round begins.

-15-
7.1 Solo Victory
A Player wins the game if he has 3 VPs 
 at the end of 
a round.
Example: A Player could win by controlling 3 Fiefs at the end of a 
round, or 2 Fiefs AND the Title of King or the Pope, or 1 Fief and 
both Titles of King and Pope!
7.2 Alliance Victory 
An alliance of two Players (through marriage) wins if they have 
4 VPs 
 at the end of a round.
In a game with at least four Players, the Players may form 
alliances and win the game together. A Player may only have 
one ally.
A Player may not have a Solo Victory if he is in an alliance with 
another Player.
Note: An Alliance Victory is only allowed in games with 4 or more 
Players, not in 3 Player games. However, Players can still marry, but 
this will not form an Alliance.
7.3 Ties
A Solo Victory beats an Alliance Victory.
If Players are tied, a winner is determined by who has the following 
in order: The Title of King, then Pope, then Queen Regent, then 
controlling the most Fiefs, then Bishoprics, then Villages.
Example: At the end of a round, none of the Players are allied. 
Grady has 3 Fiefs, David has 1 Fief, Gunter has 1 Fief, 
and Kirsten has 2 Fiefs and the Title of King. Kirsten wins 
because she has the King Title.
Example: Grady and David are allied. Grady has 3 Fiefs, 
David has 1 Fief and the King. Gunter, who is not allied, has 
3 Fiefs. Grady is in an alliance, so he cannot win Solo, even 
though he has 3VPs by himself. Grady and David’s alliance 
has 5VPs, so they fulfill the victory condition for an Alliance 
win. Gunter has 3 VPs and meets the Solo victory conditions. 
A Solo Victory beats an Alliance Victory, so Gunter wins the 
game, even though he has fewer VPs than the alliance.
8.0 Diplomacy
Fief is a game of diplomacy. Players can talk with each other, 
form Alliances, give cards and money, and negotiate actions.
Each Player begins the game with three Diplomacy markers. 
At any point in the game, a Player may spend one of his 
Diplomacy markers to take the following actions:
•	 Receive up to 3 Deniers from another Player.
•	 Receive one or more cards from another Player, including 
Lord and Fortune Cards. The receiving player is still limited 
to 3 cards. 
•	 Initiate a private discussion with one or more Players of his 
choice, during which they may secretly exchange Deniers and 
Cards. Each Diplomacy marker entitles these Players up to 3 
minutes of private discussions. If this time is not enough, it is 
possible to spend another Diplomacy marker to continue the 
discussion for another three minutes.
Note: Without playing a Diplomacy marker, Players may speak 
and negotiate freely around the table, but may not exchange 
Deniers and cards or hold private discussions.
9.0 Lord Opportunity Cards
These cards are part of the Lords Draw Deck. They may be held in a 
Player’s hand and can be played at any time during the game, unlike 
other Lord cards which must be played during the Draw & Play Cards 
9.1 d’ARC (1 card)
Mireille
d’Arc
The d’ARC card can be played 
at any time on an unmarried 
female 
Lord, 
even 
one 
belonging to another Player.
This female Lord may now 
never marry. (The d’ARC 
card is based on Joan of Arc.) 
Place the d’ARC counter above 
the female Lord’s card. She 
receives the following new 
abilities:
•	She can take 3 Moves, instead of the usual 2. Troops, Captives, 
and other Lords traveling along with her also benefit, and 
may take one additional Move.
•	 She receives an additional Battle Die in all battles. The 
d’ARC Lady is the only Lord that can roll 4 Battle Dice.
•	 She receives a +1 SP in Battle, like other female Titled Lords.
If she dies, the d’ARC card is placed in the Lords Discard Pile 
and the d’ARC counter is placed back on the board.
Example: Gunter has played the d’ARC card on Mireille 
who now becomes Mireille d’ARC.
9.2 Cardinal (3 cards)
Eric
A Cardinal card can be 
played on a Lord Bishop at 
any time. The card is 
exchanged for a Cardinals 
Biretta counter, which is 
placed at the top of the 
chosen Lord’s card. The 
Lord immediately gains 
Cardinal privileges (1.5). If 
the Cardinal dies, the 
Cardinal card is placed in 
the Lords Discard Pile. 
Note: Remember that there is also a fourth purchasable 
Cardinal Biretta counter (4.4).
If the Pope is in play, he must approve new Cardinal Titles and 
can prevent a Lord from becoming Cardinal (1.7).
10.0 Opportunity Cards
Opportunity 
Fortune cards may be held by a Player and can 
be played at any time during the game. Regular 
cards may be held, but can only be played during the Play 
Cards phase (2.4).
10.1 Uprising 
 (4 cards)
An Uprising card can be played at any time on 
a Village that is:
•	Taxed through Tallage or Tithe (2.4.4),
•	Experiencing a Famine (2.3.2).
A Player may not play an Uprising card if he 
initiated the event causing the Uprising.
Example: A Player taxes a Bishopric with a 
Tithe. He cannot play an Uprising card in this 
Bishopric based on this tax, since he initiated it. However, if a 
Famine affects this Bishopric, he could play an Uprising card 
based on the Famine.
When an Uprising card is played on a Village, any Troops in the 
Village are immediately attacked with 1 Battle Die +1 bonus hit 
(for a possible 2-4 hits), even if it is not the Battle Phase. 

-16-
If several opponents have Troops, the Player who played the 
Uprising card chooses which Troops are attacked first. 
Stronghold and Fortified City Attack Penalties still apply 
against an Uprising. A Secret Passage card can be played by any 
Player to help the Uprising cancel the Attack Penalty (10.2.2). 
Note: If no Battle Dice are rolled due to Attacker Penalties, 
then no Uprising +1 bonus hit takes effect.
Heavy Rain does not affect an Uprising.
An Uprising card can be played before a Battle to weaken the 
defenders before the main attack occurs.
Multiple Uprising cards can be played on a Village at the same 
time, even by different Players.
Example: Three Uprising cards are played for a possible 3-12 
hits (3 Battle Dice, plus the +1 Bonus hit for each).
If the Uprising kills all Troops in a Village, then:
•	 Any remaining Lords are killed, since Captives are not taken,
•	 All Mills and the Stronghold in the Village are destroyed. 
Fortified Cities are not affected.
Once resolved, the Uprising card is discarded onto the Fortune 
& Disaster Discard Pile.
Example: David plays an Uprising card on the Village of 
Mazilles, which has a Stronghold and 2 Men at Arms on 
it. The Uprising card attacks with 1 Battle Die +1 bonus hit, 
but the Battle Die is cancelled due to the Stronghold Attack 
Penalty. The Uprising would fail, since the +1 bonus hit only 
counts if the Battle Die is rolled. But David had previously 
made an agreement with Grady who plays another Uprising 
card. With the two Uprising cards, they now have: 2 Battle Dice 
- 1 Stronghold Penalty = 1 Battle Die to resolve the Uprising.
David rolls the Battle Die for a 1, adds +1 bonus hit, for a 
total of 2 hits. Both Men at Arms are killed and therefore the 
Stronghold is destroyed.
Bishops (1.4) and Cardinals (1.5) may attempt to stop an 
Uprising.
10.2 Secret Passage 
 (3 cards)
The Secret Passage card has different effects 
depending on when it is played. The effects 
are detailed below. Once resolved, the card is 
discarded onto the Fortune & Disaster 
Discard Pile.
10.2.1 Played During Movement
When played during movement, the Player can utilize one of 
the following effects for his own Lords and Troops:
•	 Escape from a Besieged Stronghold or Fortified City
Allows Troops with a Lord to escape from a besiged Stronghold 
or Fortified City into an adjacent Village. They may take Captives 
with them. This is not an additional Move, but a first Move that 
normally would not be allowed. They now can take a second 
Move.
•	 Move in Heavy Rain
Allows an Army (Troops and Lords in the same Village) to take 
one Move in a Bishopric with Heavy Rain. This can include 
moving into or out of the Bishopric. This is not a bonus Move, 
but only allows one Move in a Bishopric where movement is 
usually not allowed due to the Heavy Rain.
•	 Avoid a Battle
The Secret Passage card can be used in several ways to avoid 
Battle. A Player can pass through an enemy occupied Village 
without asking permission or using a Cavalcade (5.2). Or if an 
opponent just moved into the Village a Player occupies, the Player 
can move out of the Village along the same road the opponent 
just entered from. In general, if a Player usually needed to ask 
permission to move through an enemy, he no longer needs to. 
But the Player’s Troops still always needs a Lord to lead them.
10.2.2 Played during a Battle
When a Secret Passage card is played during a Battle, the Player can:
•	 Attack from the Tunnels
Allows an attacker to attack a Stronghold or Fortified City 
from the tunnels, cancelling all Attacker Penalties.
Example: Kirsten attacks a Stronghold with 5 SPs, which 
would nomally give her 1 Battle Die. The Stronghold imposes 
a -1 Battle Die Attacker Penalty, which would leave her with 0 
Battle Dice. By playing the Secret Passage card, she can ignore 
the Stronghold Penalty and roll 1 Battle Die.
10.2.3 During any phase
•	 Avoid Assassination or Ambush - A Lord can ignore an 
Assassination or Ambush attempt if he plays a Secret Passage 
card after an Assassination (10.3) or Ambush (10.5) card has 
been played. Both the Secret Passage and the Assassination or 
Ambush cards are then discarded.
•	 Escape - Allows a Captive(s) to escape without paying a 
Ransom (6.2.4). The escaped Lord(s) is placed on one of his 
Strongholds or Fortified Cities. If the Player has no Stronghold 
or Fortified City, place the escaped Lord in any Village occupied 
by another of his Lords. If no other Lords are available, place 
the escaped Lord in any Village he controls, then in any empty 
uncontrolled Village or Allied Player controlled Village.
10.3 Assassination 
The Assassination card can be played at any 
time against a Lord, including the King, the 
Queen and the Pope!
When played:
•	The Lord must roll 1D6. He is immediately 
assassinated on a 1 - 3 result.
•	The Lord may ignore the assassination 
attempt if he can play a Secret Passage card 
before the die roll.
A Player can target the Lords of an ally or an opponent, but 
may never assassinate his own Lords!
The Player who played the Assassination card must choose 
which of his own Lords sponsored the assassination. Place the 
Assassin marker (with the bloody knife) on this Lord’s card to 
identify him, because Justice may catch up with him! (10.4)
This is done even if the targeted Lord escaped the assassination 
attempt!
Once resolved, the Assassination card is discarded onto the 
Fortune & Disaster Discard Pile.
10.4 Justice 
The Justice card can be played at any time 
against a Lord with an Assassin marker. 
Justice is served and the Lord is beheaded 
(killed and discarded)!
The King, the Queen (Regent), the Crown 
Prince, and the Pope are immune to the 
Justice card.

-17-
10.5 Ambush 
The Ambush card can be played at any time 
by a Player who has at least one of his Lords 
engaged in a Battle. He automatically captures 
one opponent Lord of his choice engaged in 
this Battle.
Note: Troops may not attack if they are 
not lead by a Lord. They may only defend 
themselves if attacked.
11.0 Optional Rules
Players may choose to incorporate any of the optional rules 
listed below.
11.1 Holy Relics
Note: Holy Relics are associated with Saints - their bones, hair 
and blood, or any object of wonder that belonged to them. The 
Holy Relics are secretly guarded by the church.
At the beginning of the game, randomly place the five relics 
on each of the Bishoprics’ Principal Villages: Sigy, Blaye, 
Tournus, St Gérôme and Bourg.
Only Ecclesiastical Lords, including the Bishop of the Bishopric 
where the Relic is located, any Cardinal, or the Pope, can take 
possession of a Holy Relic if he is in the Principal Village where 
it is located. If the Village is controlled and occupied by an 
opponent, the Ecclesiastical Lord must be given permission by 
the owner to take the Holy Relic. Once taken, a Holy Relic is 
controlled and moved by the Lord that possesses it. Each relic 
gives a different bonus that the Lord can use to his advantage. 
Example: A Bishop may only take possession of a Holy Relic 
located in his own Bishopric.
A Lord may sell or give a Holy Relic to any other Lord, even 
non-ecclesiastical Lords. This requires a Diplomacy marker.
A Holy Relic in a Village occupied only by Troops (for 
example, the Lord carrying the Relic died from the plague) is 
still controlled by the Troops.
A Holy Relic cannot be destroyed.
If a previously claimed Holy Relic sits unclaimed in any Village 
(imagine for example that the owner died of the Plague), any 
Lord may attempt to take control of the Relic. 
As long as no Lord controls the Holy Relic, it cannot be used. 
In a Battle with an alliance, if all of the Lords of the Player 
controlling the Holy Relic die, the Relic passes immediately to 
another Lord in the alliance. 
Note: We recommend that Holy Relics not be used by new 
Players in their first game. 
11.1.1 Holy Relic Effects
The Holy Grail
The Holy Grail, if part of a defending Army, 
protects that Army in Battle. The opponent’s 
Battle Dice hit results are each reduced by one.
Example: David’s Lord has the Holy Grail and 3 
Knights. Grady attacks him with 3 Battle Dice, 
rolling 1f, 1f and 3f. The Holy Grail reduces these rolls to 0f, 0f, 
and 2f, for a total of 2 hits. 
The Holy Grail is effective only if the possesser didn’t initiate 
the Battle, nor is part of the initiating side.
The sacred cup from which Christ drank at the Last Supper 
and which was then used to collect his blood at his crucifixion. 
Eyes of Saint Roseline
The Eyes of Saint Roseline allows the Player to attempt 
to move one or all Heavy Rain Disaster cards in play 
at the end of the Play Cards Phase (2.0).
A die is rolled to determine the new Bishopric a 
Heavy Rain card will be moved to. If either the 
current Bishopric number or a 6 is rolled, the Heavy Rain card is 
not moved. Otherwise, it is moved to the new Bishopric indicated 
by the die roll. If the new Bishopric already has a Heavy Rain card 
on it, the second Heavy Rain card is discarded.
Holy Scripture: “After a long time of droughts, the rain comes 
back.... all thanks to a procession with the relics of St Roseline 
de Villeneuve” (Castle of Arcs, 1263-1329).
Teeth of Saint Géronce
The Teeth of Saint Géronce may be used only once 
during the game to resurrect a Lord who has just 
died, by cancelling the death. The possessor does 
not have to be in the same Village as the Lord that 
died.
This action must be announced immediately after the Lord 
dies. Then remove the Relic from the game.
Saint Géronce was a Missionary Bishop of Talco (near Seville, 
Spain), who was jailed and died a Martyr near the end of the 
Apostolic Age circa 100 AD. He is the Patron Saint of Bourg, a 
port on the river Dordogne, North Aquitaine, the hometown 
of the Designer, Philippe Mouchebeuf.
The Holy Spear
The Holy Spear, if part of an attacking Army, adds 
+1 bonus hit to the possessor’s combined Battle 
Dice total, each time he rolls. The Lord and his 
Holy Spear have to be part of the attacking Army. 
Example: Gunter’s Lord has the Holy Spear and 
3 Knights, allowing him to roll 2 Battle Dice. He rolls 1f and 
3f for a total of 4 hits. The Holy Spear increases this to 5 hits. 
Note: If no Battle Dice are rolled, no +1 bonus hit takes effect.
The Holy Spear: Discovered below a slab in the Saint Peter’s 
Church in Antioche (Turkey). The discovery of this Relic 
galvanized the Crusaders who were fighting the Saracens 
during the 1st Crusade in 1098.
Bone of Saint Rhadegund
The Bone of Saint Rhadegund can remove one or 
more Famine Disaster Cards at the end of the Play 
Cards Phase. The Lord does not have to be in the 
same Bishoprics as the Famines. 
The Player controlling the Relic chooses which Famine(s) 
he wants to remove. He rolls for each Famine card and may 
remove it on a 1D6 result of 4, 5 or 6.
Holy Scripture: The Oat Miracle... “trying to hide in a field 
of oat freshly sown, the oat grew instantly to conceal her.” - 
Queen Rhadegunde of the Francs (529-587) founded the 
Abbey of Sainte-Croix de Poitiers.

-18-
11.2 Fog of War 
the yellow 
player counters 
face down
All Troop counters are stacked face 
down on the Map in order to hide 
what Troops they are. Players may 
not 
check 
what 
Troops 
an 
opponent has until a Battle 
commences.
Players must announce what new 
Troops they are buying during the 
Purchase Phase. But they do not 
have to disclose where they are 
placing them. 
Note: We recommend Fog of War play only for experienced 
Players.
11.3 Open Diplomacy
Diplomacy markers are removed from the game. Players may 
negotiate, exchange Deniers and cards freely and discuss as 
much in private as they wish.
Note: Caution, game time can increase if the Player take away 
the Diplomacy markers and the limits that they impose.
12.0 FAQ
Q: If a Player does not have any Troops or Lords on the map, is 
he eliminated from the game?
A: No, he can keep playing by drawing cards, playing them, 
negotiating, etc. He cannot purchase Troops or Buildings, 
because he cannot place them. If he places a new Lord, he has 
to place it in a Village not controlled by another Player, unless 
another Player allows him to do so. Once he has a new Lord 
under his control in the game, he continues to play normally.
Q: Is a Player’s Deniers (money) visible to others or secret?
A: It is visible, unless all Players agree at the beginning of a game that 
their Deniers can remain hidden from others.
Phase 1. Hear Ye, Hear Ye
Q: Can I break an alliance?
A: The only way to break an alliance is to end the marriage. 
Either one of the spouses dies (through a Battle, Uprising, 
Plague or Assassination) or the Pope annuls the marriage (1.6).
Q: Can I attack my ally, possibly taking his Fief Fortified City 
and Title? Can I attempt to assassinate my ally’s Lord? 
A: Yes, the Player can attack and assassinate his ally. The Player 
can also take control of their Fortified City and Title. But, the 
alliance stays in place until the marriage ends! 
Q: Can we marry in a three Player game?
A: Yes, it is allowed, but the Player can only win the game 
independently in a three Player game. So the only reason to 
marry would be for the ability to get a Title from a spouse, or 
becoming Queen Regent in case the King dies.
Q: Can a Player decide not to vote in an election?
A: Yes, a Player either abstains from voting or plays his ‘Decoy’ 
Vote marker during the election.
Q: How are the ‘Decoy’ Votes counted for the vote total?
A: Only ‘For’ Votes are counted to determine the absolute 
majority or a simple majority of a vote. Abstentions and ‘Decoy’ 
Votes are ignored.
Q: When a Bishop becomes a Cardinal or the Pope, what 
happens to his Bishop Title? 
A: Bishop and Cardinal titles are kept and they still have 
priority for the Tithe Tax in their Bishoprics.
Q: Can a Lord have more than one Bishop Title? Or Cardinal 
Title? 
A: No, a Lord cannot have more than one Bishop or Cardinal 
Title. However, a Lord may have several Fief Titles along with 
his Bishop and Cardinal Titles. 
Q: Does the Queen get 1 VP, especially if she is Queen Regent?
A: No.
Q: Can the Royal Wedding be annuled by the Pope?
A: Yes, it may be at the request of the King or the Queen, but 
not if the Crown Prince has been announced. A Crown Prince 
proves that the marriage has been consummated and therefore 
can not be annuled.
Phase 2. Cards
Q: Can I play an Opportunity card during the Discard Phase?
A: Yes, the Player may play it instead of discarding it.
Q: Can I play an Opportunity card during the Draw phase?
A: No.
Q: All of the Lord cards have been drawn, but some are in the 
Lords Discard Pile because they died. Can I draw one of these?
A: Any time a Player wishes to draw a card from a Draw Deck 
that is depleted, shuffle all cards in the appropriate Discard Pile 
and place them as a new Draw Deck. The Player may now draw 
a new Lord card. 
Note: The newly drawn Lord is not the same man who died, 
just one who carries the same name! 
Phase 3. Income
Q: If a Titled Lord who played a Tax card dies before the income 
phase (Assassination, Rebellion, or Justice) or loses his Title 
(excommunicated by the Pope), where does the tax income go?
A: If the Fief’s Title remains in the family, they collect the 
Deniers. If the Fief’s Title is now controlled by another family, 
they receive the Deniers. If the Fief’s Title remains unclaimed, 
no tax is collected. If a Bishop, Cardinal or the Pope died, no 
Tithe is collected. 
Phase 4. Purchase
Q: What happens if I want to buy something, but there are no 
counters left in the stockpile?
A: The Player cannot purchase an item if there are no counters 
left. This applies to all purchasable things such as Men at Arms, 
Siege Engines, Mills, etc.
Note: Mills often run out quickly in the game! 
Q: The King can give my Lord a Fief Title, but demands that I 
give him 2 Deniers and the Village of St. Paul. Can he do this?
A: Yes, he can, if the Player agrees to it. If the Player does not 
want to negotiate, the Player can always pay the full price for 
the Fief title to the bank.
Phase 5. Movement
Q: If several Players have Troops in a Village through which I 
want to pass, from whom do I have to ask permission to pass?
A: One Player controls the Village, while other Player Troops 
may occupy the roads leading to the Village. A Player needs 
to get permission from the opposing Player controlling the 
Village and from another opposing Player that is occupying 
the road the Player wants to travel on to the next Village. If 
either opposing Player refuses, the Player cannot pass and may 
have to play a Secret Passage card, move as a Cavalcade, or 
fight a Battle. 
Q: Can a Player form a Cavalcade, move to fight, and if he wins 
decide to stay in that Village instead of moving on?
A: No. The Player must continue moving to the next Village, but 
the Player could move back again, if he has a Move remaining. 
Q: Can a Cavalvade fight in its final Move?
A: No. This final move Battle will happen in the Battle Phase if 
the opponent has not moved away.

-19-
Index
Alliance..............................................1.1
Alliance Victory................................7.2
 None in a 3 Player Game
Ambush..............................................10.5
Annul Marriage.................................1.7
Assassination.....................................10.3
Attacker Penalty................................6.2.1
Battles.................................................6.0
Battle Dice..........................................6.2
Bishopric............................................Overview, 1.4
Bountiful Harvest Card....................2.4.2
Captive...............................................6.2.2, 6.2.3
Cardinal..............................................1.5, 1.6, 9.2
Cardinal Title Counter.....................4.4
Cavalcade...........................................5.2
Controlling a Village........................5.1
Crown Prince....................................1.8.2
D’ARC card........................................9.1
Diplomacy.........................................8.0
Discard Cards....................................2.1
Draw Cards........................................2.1
Elections.............................................1.3
Elect Bishop.......................................1.4
Elect King...........................................1.8
Elect Pope..........................................1.7
Escape.................................................10.2.1, 10.2.3
Excommunicate................................1.7
Fief......................................................Overview
Famine Card......................................2.3.2
Fief Title.............................................4.3
Fog of War (optional).......................11.2
Fortified City.....................................4.3
Fortune Cards....................................2.1
Good Weather Card.........................2.4.3
Governed...........................................1.4.1, 4.3
Heavy Rain Card...............................2.3.1
Hits.....................................................6.2.2
Holy Relics (optional)......................11.1
Income................................................3.0
Justice.................................................10.4
Knight.................................................4.1
Lord Card...........................................2.4.1
Marriage.............................................1.1
Marriage Annulment........................1.7
Men at Arms......................................4.1
Mills....................................................4.2
Movement..........................................5.0
Opportunity Cards...........................9.0, 10.0
Pillage.................................................6.5
Plague Card.......................................2.3.3
Principal Village................................Game Setup
Purchasing.........................................4.0
Ransom..............................................6.2.4
Replenish Depleted Deck.................2.2
Secret Passage....................................10.2
Sieges..................................................6.4
Siege Engine.......................................6.4.2
Solo Victory.......................................7.1
Stronghold.........................................4.2
Tallage.................................................2.4.5
Taxes...................................................2.4.4
Ties......................................................7.3
Tithe....................................................2.4.6
Truce...................................................6.3
Tunnels...............................................10.2.2
Uprising Card....................................10.1
Victory................................................7.1, 7.2
Voting.................................................1.3
Game Design: Philippe Mouchebeuf.
Development Team: Philippe Mouchebeuf, Olivier Chanry, Thierry Mattray, 
Franck Saverys, Maximilien Da Cunha.
English Rules: Uwe Eickert.
Box Cover Art: Stéphane Poinsot.
Rules Review and Editing: Ivano Brindisi, Jay Christensen, Mark Davis, Richard 
A. Edwards, Simone Ferrari, Alvin Gunkel, Paul Hendricks, Mats Karlöf, Kurt 
Keckley, Rölof Konijnenberg, Larry ‘Joe’ Kopen, James LaRue, Jeremiah May, 
Mike Mihalas, ‘the Mowrys’, Njål Nordmark, Øyvind Ølberg, James Palmer, 
John Parker, Dallas Petersen, Grant Rodiek, Cody Sayre, Dexter Thompson, Jim 
Toland.
Fief - France 1429 AYG 5410 
Copyright © 2014 Academy Games, Inc. through license from ASYNCRON games.
Fremont, Ohio USA 419-307-2115
www.AcademyGames.com
English Language Rules Copyright © 2014 Academy Games, Inc. through license 
from ASYNCRON games.
Q: Can a Player initiate a Cavalcade from a besieged Stronghold or Fortified City?
A: Yes. The besieged Cavalcading army must immediately fight against the 
besieging force. If the Cavalcading army wins, it MUST make a second move to an 
adjacent Village. 
Phase 6. Battles
Q: A Lord is alone in a Village facing an opposing army. Does he get to fight with 
1 Battle Die?
A: No, Lords with no supporting Troops are immediately taken captive. 
Example: Kirsten and Gunter both have Lords in a Village with no Troops. 
Kirsten controls the Village. During the next Purchase Phase, Kirsten purchases 
a Knight and places it in this Village. Gunter’s Lord is immediately captured. 
13.0 Definitions
Controlled (5.1) - A Village occupied by a Player’s Troops and/or Lords is controlled 
by that Player. An unoccupied Village located in a governed Fief is controlled by 
the governing Player.
Family - A Player’s family consists of up to four Lords.
Governed (4.3) - A Bishopric with an elected Bishop or a Fief whose Title has been 
purchased by a Lord. A Player receives income from unoccupied Villages in his 
governed Fiefs.
Troops (4.1) - Men at Arms and Knights that are used in Battle.