Welcome to East Frisia 
Arle is a small village in East Frisia. 
Today, only the size of its village church implies its former importance.
In the past centuries, the area around Arle stood out due to its excellent farmland. It was said the 
best flax of all North Germany grew in Arle. As the demand for this versatile resource grew, the local 
farmers quickly became rich. The people of Arle had a considerably better life than the residents 
of any other place in East Frisia. In this game, you can share the fortune of living in Arle with the 
flax farmers of that time. You can decide whether you want to participate in farming flax yourself or, 
as a consequence of the increasing wealth in Arle, meet the demand in other areas. You can grow 
grain, breed animals, cut peat, colonize the moor, or build dikes. You can cultivate forests, run a 
vehicle fleet, or build workshops and inns. Your biggest task is to build prestigious buildings like the 
previously mentioned village church.
 
A game of “Fields of Arle” is played over nine half years – alternating between summer and winter. 
In summer, you can carry out different actions than in winter. At the end of each half year, there is a 
season-specific Inventorying. Finally, a single scoring at the end of the game will determine which 
player made the most out of the four and a half years he had in Arle.
A development game for 1-2 players of ages 14 and up
Rule Book
Fields of Arle

For those who come from the sea, 
East Frisia is not at the end of the world, 
but rather at its very beginning. 
Ewald Christophers
Game design: Uwe Rosenberg, Artwork: Dennis Lohausen
© 2014 Feuerland Spiele 
English Version: © 2016 F2Z Entertainment Inc. 
31 rue de la Coopérative, Rigaud QC J0P 1P0 Canada
info@zmangames.com www.zmangames.com

Before Your First Play
Attach the stickers to the 12 Goods Indicators and the 8 Workers. You can attach the spot stickers to the white Cattle tokens to make them 
“black pied” (as they used to call it in East Frisia).
Game Boards: 
1 large Game Board
Tiles:
9× travel destinations 
per player (18 total)
Replacement Tiles:
1× “5 Linen” 
1× “5 Wool” 
1× “5 Leather”
40× “Peat”
20× “Sheep”
20× “Cattle”
20× “Horse”
Wooden Tokens: 
2×4 Workers 
(in the player 
colors)
2x “Grain” Goods Indicators 
2x “Flax” Goods Indicators 
2x “Hide” Goods Indicators 
2x “Wool” Goods Indicators 
4x “Food” Goods Indicators
1 orange Half 
Year Counter
1 Starting 
Player 
Marker
1 Supply Board (for tiles)
2 Home Boards 
(with tracks on the sides)
2 “Travel Destinations 
and Barn” Storage Boards
Wooden Indicators:
2×10 round Tool 
Indicators (in the 
player colors)
4x
2x each
1x each
20x
Clothing Tiles: 
24× “Linen/Summer Wear”
23× “Leather/Leather Wear”
23× “Woolen/Winter Wear”
Building Material Tiles:
24× “Clay/Brick” 
24× “Wood/Timber”
as well as 
• 1 Scoring Pad 
• 2 Overview Sheets 
• 1 Sticker Sheet 
5× “Forest/Park”
3× “Stable/Double Stall”
3× “Cart/Horse Cart”
2× “Handcart/Wagon”
10× “Dike”
6× “Moor/Dehydrated Moor”
7× “Stall/Depot”
14× “Grain Field/Flax Field”
3× “Carriage/Droshky”
6× “Peat Boat/Plow”
2× “Small Boardwalk”
31× “Building”
Components

Place the Supply Board between you. Place the depicted tiles on the 
appropriate spaces as indicated on the Supply Board. (The Supply 
Board also shows a small illustration of the reverse side of each tile.) 
There are Fields*, Plows and Peat Boats, Vehicles, Clothing*, Stalls 
and Depots, Stables and Double Stalls, as well as Forests and Parks. 
(If your gaming table is not big enough to accommodate all 
the components, you do not need to use the Supply Board 
at all: instead, place the stacks of tiles wherever you can.) 
* There are a lot of Field and Clothing Tiles. You only need to place 
some of them on the Supply Board. You can add the rest later, if 
need be.
Place the large Game Board next to the Supply Board. 
Then place the orange Half Year Counter on space 
1 of the Half Year Track. Choose a player color. Take 
the round Tool Indicators of that color and place one 
each on each of the 10 Tool Tracks of the Game Board (Fish Traps, 
Fleshing Beams, etc.). Place them on the leftmost space of each 
track (as depicted on the right).
Familiarize yourselves with the costs of the Buildings. They are 
printed on the Game Board.
Randomly determine the Starting Player. This player 
receives the Starting Player Marker. Place 1 Worker of 
each color on each of the spaces “July” to “October” on the 
Game Board, so that the Starting Player’s tokens are on top.
Distribute the Buildings on the spaces of matching color 
on the Game Board. In 3 of the 5 building colors, there 
are 3 more Buildings than there are matching spaces on 
the Game Board. In these cases, randomly determine 
which Buildings to place on the Game Board and which 
ones to remove from the game. 
There are two types of green Buildings. For your first play, 
use the 4 light green ones. When you are more experienced 
with the game, use 4 of the 7 dark green Buildings instead.
Take a Home Board each and place it (on your side of the 
table) below the Supply Board (see “Overall Layout” below). 
Place the depicted components on the Home Board as indicated 
on it (also shown in the illustration on the right), i.e. certain tiles, 
1 Horse, 4 Peat Tokens and 6 Goods Indicators.
Aside from your Home Board, you each receive a “Travel 
Destinations and Barn” Storage Board as well as a set of 
“Travel Destinations” in your player color. Place the Travel 
Destinations on the appropriate spaces of your Storage Board. 
(Your Barn appears below the Travel Destinations, and it 
starts empty.)
• You each receive an Overview Sheet showing the various 
actions of the game.
• You each take 4 Wood, 4 Clay and 3 Peat and place them next 
to your Home Board in your personal supply. (An illustration 
on the Overview Sheet reminds you of these values.)
• Sort the remaining Building Materials, the “Wood/Timber” 
and the “Clay/Brick” tiles, as well as the wooden “Animal” 
and “Peat” tokens and place them handily on the side.
• You (probably) will not need the Scoring Pad until the end 
of the game.
This is how the 
components are laid 
out after the setup 
is complete. Yellow 
is sitting at the top, 
Red is sitting at the 
bottom.
“Travel Destina-
tions and Barn” 
Storage Board
During the course of the game, the tiles in the top row can 
be acquired with either side facing up.
The tiles in the bottom row can only be acquired with their 
front side facing up. Their reverse sides show upgrades to 
their front sides. 
The Tool Indicators keep track of the number of Tools you have. 
During the course of the game, you can increase that number.
Here, Yellow is the Starting Player.
On the left side of the Home Board, there is the Travel Experience 
Track. In the middle, there are the Landscape Spaces, and on the 
right side, there is the Goods Track.
costs
Setup
Overall Layout

dehydrated moor with peat
moor
In this game, you build a village and take care of the area around it. The following illustration shows the goals you try to 
accomplish. The wind roses indicate the number of Victory Points you get for the depicted actions.
Yellow wind roses stand for Victory Points.
While reading this rule book, you can come back to this page every now and then to get a better view of the 
context. This section has no relevance for understanding the rules. Any information found on this page is also 
explained elsewhere in this rule book.
At the end of the game, you will get Victory Points for each type of good that you have a certain 
number of (indicated by the wind rose symbols on the Goods Track). You can double these 
points by turning one of your Stalls into a Depot.
* Try to have about the same number of Animals of each type at the end of the game, so that your Animals will be effectively worth 
1 Victory Point per Animal. Empty Land Spaces (also called Pastures) can hold 2, Stalls 3 and Stables 6 Animals of the same type. Parks 
can hold 2 Animals of any type and each of your 5 Dikes can hold 1 Animal of any type.
Dike the Tidal Flat Area on your 
Home Board to get access to more 
Fields, Pastures and building land. 
(If you do not finish this process 
by the end of the game, you will 
lose points.) 
Build Buildings. (They have a 
fixed number of Victory Points.)
You can breed Animals in Stalls 
and Stables. (At the end of the 
game, Stalls and Stables will be 
worth 2 and 6 Victory Points, 
respectively. Animals are also 
worth Victory Points. See below*.) 
Animals can live in Stalls and 
Stables or graze outdoors: this is 
also covered below*. 
This is your Travel Experience 
Track. (The more villages and 
towns you provide with goods, 
the more points you will get.
 
Dehydrate the Moor so that you 
can cut peat. 
As soon as you remove the last 
Peat Token from a Moor Tile, you 
can cultivate that Moor Section by 
removing the Moor Tile from your 
Home Board. (Until then, you lose 
points for it.) 
You can build Plows, Peat 
Boats, and various Vehicles. 
These pieces of Equipment 
are stored in your Barn. 
(They are worth Victory 
Points at the end of the 
game.) 
 
You only have so much 
space in your Barn.
Linen, Woolen and Leather are 
made out of the corresponding 
resources. (Each of these upgraded 
goods is worth 1 Victory Point.) 
You can use them to craft Clothing 
to double their value.
Wood, Timber, Clay and 
Bricks are represented by 
cardboard tokens. (The upgraded 
goods, Timber and Bricks, are 
worth Victory Points.) Peat is 
represented by wooden tokens.
Plow Fields to increase your 
income of Grain and Flax. 
Forests (worth 2 Victory Points) 
provide additional Wood. Later, 
you can upgrade them to valuable 
Parks (worth 6 Victory Points).
Some goods are represented by 
tiles, but most of the goods are 
represented by Goods Indicators 
and tracked on your Goods Track. 
Food, Grain, Hides, Flax, and 
Wool are indicated on the Goods 
Track. You can have at most 
15 pieces of each of these types 
of goods due to the limitation 
imposed by the Goods Track. 
Only exception: Food is 
represented by 2 Goods 
Indicators (light blue), so 
you can have up to 30 Food. 
The Game Board indicates how many Tools of each 
type you have. (They are also worth Victory Points.)
Here you have 6 Fish Traps.
In Order to Get Started

This section explains basic elements of the game. The exact rules will be explained later in more detail.
The Home Board
At the beginning of the game, you have access to 2 empty Land Spaces on your Home Board. (The other Land Spaces were covered by 
tiles during setup.) On these spaces, you can build Fields, Stalls, Buildings, and Forests. Directly above your Land Spaces is your Dike 
Line (this is what we call 3 Dike tiles lying in a row next to each other) and beyond that the Tidal Flat Area. You cannot build there, 
because this area is flooded by the tide. However, during the course of the game, you can dike the Tidal Flat Spaces to reclaim land and 
get access to more Land Spaces. To do so, you will move the Dike tiles upwards one by one. This will eventually move your Dike Line 
(i.e. the border between the Tidal Flat Area and the Mainland) upwards as well.
This is an example of how you could load your vehicles.
gaining land by cutting Peat
Moor dehydration
The two initially empty spaces
The Vehicles
Vehicles play a special role in this game and are available for 
purchase on the Supply Board. Once you own them, you can put 
them to work once per Half Year – outside the normal course 
of play. (The game is played over a total of 9 Half Years. See 
pages 10 and 11 for more details on Vehicles.) You will need 
Vehicles to get access to Timber, Bricks, and Clothing, as well as 
to sell goods at certain Travel Destinations.
A game of “Fields of Arle” is played over 9 Half Years – alternating between Summer and Winter. Each Half Year consists of 3 Phases.
Phase 1: Preparations 
In June (during Summer) and in December (during Winter), you 
place your Workers for the subsequent Work Phase. 
Phase 2: Work Phase 
Over the following few months, you place your 4 Workers on 
 
Phase 3: Inventorying 
At the end of each Half Year, i.e. in November and May, you 
take stock of your belongings.
Another way to get access to more Land Spaces is to 
cut peat. Peat is cut in the Moor that is located below 
your developed Land Spaces. During the course of 
the game, you can flip the Moor Tiles over to show 
they were dehydrated. Then you can cut peat there 
until you have removed all of the peat from the tile. 
It will immediately become cultivated and the Moor 
Tile will be removed from your Home Board. From 
then on, you will have access to (1 or) 2 new Land 
Spaces. (See page 9 for the detailed rules on land 
reclamation.)
Gaining land by moving 
the Dike Line
About the Home Board and the Vehicles
Course of the Game

Phase 1: Preparations
During setup, you have already placed your Workers for the first 
Half Year. At the beginning of each Half Year, place Workers on 
each of the 4 Month Spaces, with the Starting Players’s Workers 
on top of his opponents. (The Starting Player Marker can change 
hands via the “Special Action,” an action that can only be taken 
once per Half Year. You can find more details on this at the bottom 
of the page.) 
Phase 2: Work Phase
Take turns placing your Workers on empty Action Spaces of the 
current Half Year. Take your Workers from left to right off the 
Month Spaces. In each Month, the player with the Starting Player 
Marker goes first.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Summer Action Spaces are only available in odd-numbered Half 
Years, the Winter Action spaces only in even-numbered ones. In 
each Half Year, there are 15 different Action Spaces to choose from. 
After placing your Worker on an Action Space, immediately carry 
out the corresponding action. (See page 12 for details on the various 
Action Spaces.) Each Action Space can only be occupied by a single 
Worker – an occupied Action Space is blocked until the end of the 
current Work Phase. (Placing a Worker on an Action Space is not 
mandatory. You can, instead, remove him from the Month Space and 
do nothing on your turn.)
Special Action and Starting Player
In Summer, 1 of the 8 Workers may use a Winter Action Space 
(instead of a Summer one). Similarly, in Winter, 1 Worker may use 
a Summer Action Space (instead of a Winter one). When a player 
makes use of this Special Action, his opponent receives the Start-
ing Player Marker for the subsequent Half Year. If none of the 
8 Workers makes use of the Special Action, the Starting Player 
Marker changes hands automatically at the end of the Half Year. 
Spaces with a white/blue Frisian pattern on the Game Board 
indicate costs. You have to pay the depicted goods in order to
– get the Building below that space (see the “1 Building” action), or
– move one of your Tool Indicators one space to the right, or
– use the action on that Action Space.
Please note: regardless of the action you take, you can always pay 
Timber instead of Wood and Brick instead of Clay.
When placing your Workers, remember 
the “Laborer” Action Space. This space 
allows you to use an already occupied 
Action Space again. (This space must 
still belong to the current Half Year.)
In this example, Yellow 
is the Starting Player.
You have to pay 
1 Brick to move the 
Oven Tool Indicator 
one space to the right.
	Wood	
Timber
	
	 Clay	
Brick
Red has taken the Special Action, so Yellow will 
be the Starting Player next Half Year.
Anytime Actions
•	At any time during the Work Phase (in addition to your actions), 
you can load your Vehicles. (See page 10 for details.) You decide 
when to end your Work Phase - so, even after you have placed all 
of your Workers, you can still load goods on the remaining free 
spaces of your Vehicles.
•	Also at any time during the Work Phase, you can rearrange 
the Animals on your Home Board (according to the “Animal 
Husbandry” rules on page 9).
•	If you own a Peat Boat, you can exchange Peat for goods of 
the Goods Track at a 1:1 ratio – at 
any time during the game and any 
number of times. Adjust the Goods 
Indicators on your Goods Track ac-
cordingly.
Phase 3: Inventorying
The Work Phase ends after all of the 8 Workers were used and both 
players declared the end of the Work Phase. In November (at the 
end of a Summer/Fall Half Year) and in May (at the end of a Winter/
Course of a Half Year

This Vehicle has been loaded during 
the course of the Work Phase.
November at the End of a Summer/Fall Half Year
1. Empty Vehicles: 
Place the Timber, Bricks, and Clothing from 
your Vehicles into your personal supply. 
Place the Travel Destination Tiles from your 
Vehicles (as described at the bottom of this 
page) on your Travel Experience Track.
2. Milking:
You receive 1/2/3  Food for 2/5/8  Sheep and 
1/2/3  Food for 1/3/5  Cattle on your Home Board. 
(You cannot get more than 6 Food this way.) Indicate 
the Food on your Goods Track.
3. Harvest: 
You receive 1 Grain per Grain Field and 1 Flax per 
Flax Field on your Home Board. Indicate the Grain 
and Flax on your Goods Track. You also receive 
1 Wood per Forest on your Home Board. (You do not 
receive Wood for your Parks.)
4. Sustenance: 
•	 Pay 3 Food and 2 Peat (as fuel for the upcoming Winter).
•	For each missing Food, pay 1  Grain 
instead. If you run out of Grain, pay 
1 Animal per missing Food instead.
•	For each missing Peat, pay 1 Wood (or Timber) instead.
•	If you are still missing Food (because you ran out of Food, Grain, 
and Animals) or Fuel (because you ran out of Peat, Wood, and 
Timber), you lose 2 Victory Points per missing item. Keep track 
of the Victory Point losses in the “Supply Bottlenecks” category 
of the Scoring Pad.
May at the End of a Winter/Spring Half Year
1. Empty Vehicles: 
Place the Timber, Bricks, and Clothing from 
your Vehicles into your personal supply. Place 
the Travel Destination Tiles from your Vehicles 
on your Travel Experience Track (see below).
2. Baby Animals: 
In each of your Stalls with exactly 2 Animals of the same type, you 
receive a third Animal of that type (from the general supply). In 
each of your Stables with 2, 3 or 5 Animals of the same type, you 
also receive another Animal of that type. In Stables with exactly 
4 Animals of the same type, you receive 2 Animals of that type 
(instead of 1). Double Stalls (upgrades to Stables) are considered 
two separate Stalls. Place the newborn Animals with their parents. 
(Animals outside of your Stalls and Stables, e.g. those in your 
Parks, do not breed.)
3. Sheering: 
You receive 1/2/3  Wool for 1/4/6  Sheep on your 
Home Board. Indicate the Wool on your Goods 
Track. (You cannot get more than 3 Wool this way. 
Your newborn Sheep can be shorn right away, i.e. 
they count towards those numbers.)
4. Sustenance: Pay 3 Food.
•	For each missing Food, pay 1  Grain 
instead. If you run out of Grain, pay 
1 Animal per missing Food instead.
•	If you are still missing Food, you lose 2 Victory Points per miss-
ing Food. Keep track of the Victory Point losses in the “Supply 
Bottlenecks” category of the Scoring Pad.
Travel Experience 
Whenever you empty your Vehicles, 
place the used Travel Destination Tiles 
face down on the Travel Experience 
Track on the left side of your Home 
Board. The first such tile is placed at the 
bottom of the track so that the depicted 
coastal path is running from bottom to 
top. Every subsequent Travel Destination 
Tile is placed above the previous ones. 
(The first empty space above those tiles 
indicates the number of Victory Points 
you will get for your Travel Experience 
at the end of the game.)
At the end of each 
Half Year, move the 
orange Half Year 
Counter one space 
forward onto the next 
Half Year and start 
that Half Year. The 
game ends after a 
total of 9 Half Years.
This is how you place your Travel 
Destination Tiles. In this exam-
ple, your Travel Experience is 
currently worth 6 Victory Points.
In this example, the player received 2 Lambs and 
2 Foals as Baby Animals. He now has a total of 
6 Sheep and, thus, receives 3 Wool during Sheering.
You can only eat Grain if you run out of Food. 
(The same applies to Animals.) Also, you can only 
burn Wood if you run out of Peat. Both cases are 
given in the illustration.
Spring Half Year), the players take stock of their belongings. Go through the following sub-phases one by one in the 
given order. (When reading the rules for the first time, you can skip this section and come back to it later.) On your 
“Travel Destinations and Barn” Storage Board, there is an overview of the significant values of the Inventorying.
Half Year End

The Mainland
At the beginning of the game, you have 2 Land Spaces that you 
can build on by placing tiles of appropriate size on them (see 
“The Action Spaces” on page 12), like Fields, Forests, Stalls, and 
Buildings. 4 Land Spaces are already covered by tiles.
The 2nd Dike initiates 
the next step of the 
land reclamation pro-
cess. The 3rd Dike still 
does not result in more 
Land Spaces.
This is how your Dike 
tiles are laid out at 
the beginning of the 
game.
The 1st Dike you 
build in the game al-
ready provides 3 new 
Land Spaces.
Only the 4th Dike 
provides access 
to 3 more Land 
Spaces.
The 5th Dike prevents 
the loss of a Victory 
Point.
The 6th and 7th Dike 
also prevent the loss 
of Victory Points. 
Additionally, the 
7th Dike unlocks the 
remaining 3 Land 
Spaces.
The landscape on your Home Board consists of a Tidal Flat Area (above the Dike Line, i.e. above the 3 Dike tiles that are lying in a 
horizontal line) and the Mainland (below the Dike Line).
Dike Building 
At the beginning of the game, there are 9 potential Land Spaces in 
the Tidal Flat Area. The Dike Line indicates the border between 
this area and the Mainland. You have 5 Dike tiles. Each such tile 
is lying in the gap between 2 vertically adjacent spaces. Whenever 
you use a “+1 Dike” action, you move one of the bottom Dikes up 
into the next gap between two spaces (see the illustrations below). 
(Some actions allow you to move more than one tile. See the “Dike 
Builder” action on page 12 for details.)
Whenever you create a new Dike Line above your old one, i.e. when 
there is a new horizontal line consisting of 3 adjacent Dike tiles, 
you immediately gain 3 new Land Spaces (also known as “polder 
spaces”). The following illustrations should shed some more light 
on this process:
A row consisting of one or two Dike tiles is irrelevant to the 
distinction between the Tidal Flat Area and the Mainland.
Cutting Peat in the Moor Area
At the bottom of your Home Board, there are 3 Moor Tiles. Use a 
“Dehydrate a Moor Section” or “Warden” action to dehydrate one 
of these Moor Sections so that you can cut peat there (see pages 
12-13): turn the Moor Tile to its reverse side and immediately place 
4 Peat Tokens on it. Afterwards, you can use “Cut Peat” actions 
to take the Peat Tokens off the Moor Tile and place them in your 
personal supply. (The Peat Cutter Action Space lets you do multiple 
consecutive “Cut Peat” actions depending on how many Spades 
you have, see page 12.) As soon as you remove the last Peat Token 
from a Moor Tile, immediately remove that Moor Tile from 
play. This way you gain more Land Spaces on your Home Board 
to build on.
6.
7.
1.
4.
2.
3.
Animal Husbandry Rules
There are 3  types of Animals in this game: Sheep, Cattle, and 
Horses. You can get these Animals via various actions during the 
Work Phase (see pages 12-13) and as newborns at the end of each 
Winter Half Year. You can only keep your newly gained Animals if 
you can accommodate them on your Home Board. You can return 
Animals to the general supply (without substitution) at any time. 
During the Work Phase, you can rearrange the Animals on your 
Home Board at any time according to the following rules: 
1 Each of your Dikes can hold 1 Animal of any type.
2 Each empty Land Space of your Home Board can hold up to 
2 Animals of the same type.
3 Each Stall can hold up to 3 Animals of the same type. (Do not 
forget to get a pair of Animals into each of your Stalls before the 
end of Winter to get a newborn Animal during the Inventorying 
in May; see page 8.)
4 Double Stalls (reverse side of 
Stables) are considered two 
separate Stalls. (You can get them 
via the “Warden” and “Dike 
Warden” actions.)
5 Each Stable can hold up to 6 Animals of the same type. (As 
with Stalls, try to have pairs of Animals in your Stables before 
Winter ends to maximize the number of newborn Animals you 
get. You can get Stables via the “Carpenter” action in Winter.)
6 Each Park (reverse side of a Forest) can hold up to 2 Animals 
of the same or of different types. (You can get Parks via the 
“Warden” and “Dike Warden” actions, see pages 12-13.)
See page 10 for an illustration of these rules.
5.
At the beginning of the game, 
you already have a dehydrated 
Moor Section with 4 Peat 
waiting to be cut. Dehydrate 
the other Moor Sections to get 
access to even more Peat.
Features of Your Home Board

Moving Components on Your Home Board
Animals can be moved at any time during the Work Phase of a 
Half Year, but they must always be accommodated on your Home 
Board. Dike tiles can only be moved as a result of specific actions. 
All the other tiles on your Home Board (including Fields) can only 
be placed, turned, or removed via certain actions. (The tiles on 
your Home Board cannot change their position, except Dikes.) As 
the space in your Barn is limited, you can return Equipment to the 
Supply Board at any time (without substitution).
As mentioned earlier, Vehicles play a special role in this game. You can build them via the “Wainwright” action (see page 13) and then 
put them to work once per Half Year. 
The Goods Track
Indicate the amounts of Food, Grain, Hides, Flax, and Wool you 
have with the Goods Indicators on your Goods Track. The Goods 
Indicators cannot go above 15 or below 0. You may move one of the 
Food Goods Indicators down on the track to move the other Food 
Goods Indicator up by the same number of spaces (i.e. you may 
distribute the total amount of Food you have between the two Food 
Goods Indicators any way you like). You may want to do this at the 
end of the game to maximize the number of points you get for goods.
Space is limited in the Barn. 
During the course of the game, you can build one or more 
Vehicles. There are 4 Parking Spaces in your Barn designated 
for Small Vehicles and other pieces of Equipment (like Plows 
and Peat Boats), and 3 spaces for Large Vehicles. (Alternatively, 
the bottommost Parking Space can be used for a small piece of 
Equipment instead of a Large Vehicle.) You can have multiple 
copies of the same piece of Equipment.
At any time during the Work Phase, you can load your Vehicles 
(even right after you got them). This is not considered an action – 
you can do this on top of your actions. Please note, the tiles you 
put on your Vehicles will only be removed from there at the end 
of the Work Phase. (See page 8 for details on emptying Vehicles.) 
You can load your Vehicles with…
–	Building Materials, i.e. Wood and Clay, to upgrade them 
(to Timber/Bricks)
–	Fabrics, i.e. Linen, Woolen and Leather, to upgrade them 
(to Summer/Winter/Leather Wear)
–	Travel Destination Tiles of your color to receive Food at the 
given destination
The Barn
There are 6 types of Vehicles with different costs and uses. The 
costs are some amount of Wood and Horses. (You do lose the 
Horses that you pay this cost with. Thematically, this means the 
Horse is no longer used for breeding but for pulling the Vehicle.)
You can store up to 30 food and up 
to 15 units of every other good.
Limited Components
The Animals, Building Materials, Clothing, and Peat Tokens are 
considered to be an unlimited supply. Please improvise or use the 
Replacement Tiles if you run out of any of these goods. Every 
other type of tile is limited by the provided supply. (If it runs out, 
you cannot get more. This is especially true for Grain/Flax Fields, 
Stalls, Stables, Peat Boats/Plows, and all the Vehicles.) Of course, 
when a player returns one of these tiles to the supply, it becomes 
available again.
5 Woolen, 5 Leather, and 5 Linen
Small Vehicles
Large Vehicles
Handcart
Cart
Carriage
Droshky
Horse Cart
two loaded vehicles
Loading Vehicles

Vehicles have Single and 
Double Spaces in different 
amounts and distributions. 
(You can load the spaces of 
a Vehicle at the same or at 
different points in time.)
Double Space
Single Space
Horse Cart to Bremen
Plow and 
Peat Boat
This Horse Cart supplies 
Hage and Aurich with 
goods. Also, during the 
next Inventorying, you 
will get 1 Timber from it. 
The 2 Single Spaces in the middle were combined to a Double 
Space to fit “Aurich”.
The Single Spaces on Vehicles
Single Spaces can be loaded with Wood and Clay tiles. When 
placing Wood or Clay on a Vehicle, immediately turn them to 
their reverse side, “Timber” or “Bricks” respectively. 
When placing Clay on a Vehicle, you must also pay 
1 Peat (as indicated on the Clay Tile). 
Alternatively, you can load Single Spaces with the 
Travel Destinations Hage, Dornum and Beemoor, 
which are of the smallest available size. 
On the Large Vehicles, you can consider multiple adjacent spac-
es as one large space to place the bigger tiles on them – this way, 
you can fit tiles of sizes 2, 3 and 4 on your Large Vehicles.
When you place a Travel Destination 
Tile on a Vehicle, you must use it 
immediately: sell at least one of the 
depicted items and receive the given 
amount of Food. Each item can only 
be sold once per Travel Destination. 
(When you sell goods, return the tokens to the general supply or 
adjust the Goods Indicators on your Goods Track. Then adjust the 
Food Goods Indicator(s) on your Goods Track according to your 
proceeds. See page 19 for a table of all available sales options.) 
When you are done selling, turn the Travel Destination Tile to 
its reverse side and leave it on your Vehicle. It remains there and 
blocks the spaces of the Vehicle until the end of the current Work 
Phase. Only then can you place it on your Travel Experience Track. 
(Consequently, you can only use a Travel Destination once. You 
cannot return to it later to sell more goods.)
You may not place small tiles like 
Timber on the Double Spaces of your 
Vehicles.
Here you can see several different ways to load a Droshky. You 
cannot load it with two Summer Ware Tiles, since you cannot 
split the Double Space in the middle to use it for two tiles.
Combining spaces on Large Vehicles does not only make sense to 
fit big Travel Destination Tiles, but also to upgrade Fabrics (Linen, 
Woolen and Leather): this is how you make Summer, Winter and 
Leather Ware.
The Double Spaces on Vehicles 
Double Spaces on Vehicles limit your options. You may not place 
Timber, Bricks, or small Travel Destinations on them. They can 
only be used for bigger Travel Destinations and Clothing Tiles. 
You may, however, combine Double Spaces with adjacent Single 
Spaces to fit even bigger tiles.
It is important 
when exactly 
you place tiles 
on Vehicles.
 When you place “Emden” on 
one of your Carts (like in the 
illustration), you must imme-
diately sell goods for Food. 
(For instance, you could sell 
1 Winter Wear and 1 Peat for a total of 10 Food.) “Emden” will 
then block your Cart for the remainder of the current Work Phase. 
(You can use the Food you got right away, though.)
When placed on a Vehicle, the basic Building Materials (Wood 
and Clay) as well as the Fabrics (Linen, Woolen, and Leather) are 
placed with their upgraded side facing up (i.e. Timber/Brick and 
Summer/Winter/Leather Wear, respectively). However, you cannot 
access them until after the end of the current Work Phase, when 
you empty your Vehicles (see page 8).
It is not allowed to make a piece of Clothing with one Vehicle (like 
the Leather Wear in the illustration) and then sell it for Food via an-
other Vehicle (like here in “Emden”) during the same Work Phase.
Details on Vehicles
•	You cannot combine the Single 
Spaces of the Wagon to fit bigger 
tiles.
•	At the Travel Destinations, you can only sell goods that you have 
in your supply – including the goods indicated by your Goods 
Track. In a few special cases, you can sell a Plow or Peat Boat 
from your Barn, or a Field or Moor Tile from your Home Board 
(see page 19). (Again, you cannot sell goods from your Vehicles.)
•	“Bremen” can only be accessed by 
Horse Cart or Droshky due to its size 
of 4. It requires 4 Single Spaces, or 
2 Single Spaces and 1 Double Space.
•	Plows and Peat Boats are not consid-
ered Vehicles, although – like Vehi-
cles – they must be kept in the Barn.

Fisherman: Take 1 Sheep. Also, move 
your Fish Trap Tool Indicator one space to 
the right. Then take 1 Food per Fish Trap 
you have (i.e. up to 6 Food). (8)
 
Colonist: Take 1 Horse and/or dehydrate 
a Moor Section by flipping over one of 
your Moor Tiles to show the Boardwalk 
illustration is visible at the top of the tile. 
Then place exactly 4 Peat Tokens from the 
general supply on it.
Clay Worker: Take 1 Clay per Shovel you 
have (i.e. 3, 4, 5, or 6 Clay). (8) 
In this example, you currently have 
5 Shovels, i.e. 2 Pairs 
of Shovels for pur-
poses of the “Dike 
Builder” action.
Woodcutter: Take 1 Wood per Axe you 
have (i.e. 3, 4, 5, or 6 Wood). (The number 
of Forests you have does not matter here.) 
( 8)
Builder: Build a Building (2) by paying 
the costs depicted on the Game Board. 
Place the new tile on an empty Land Space 
of your Home Board.
For instance, the Inns each cost 2 different 
Building Materials and 
9 Food.
Grocer: Take one of the following goods: 
Timber, Brick, Sheep, Cattle, or Horse. 
Additionally, take 1 Grain and 1 Leather.
 
Peat Cutter: Per Spade you have (i.e. up 
to 3, 5, or 7 times), you may take 1 Peat 
Token off one of your Moor Tiles. (You 
may take the Peat from different Moor 
Tiles, but not from the general 
supply.) (8) 
Farmer: Build a Plow (see 
1 on page 14 for details 
on the costs) and place it in your Barn. 
Additionally or alternatively, you may plow 
1 Field (2) per Plow you have. (You may 
plow fewer fields than Plows owned.) For 
each new Field, decide which side to dis-
play on your Home Board (Flax or Grain). 
Master: Per Workbench you have (i.e. up 
to 2, 3, or 4 times), you may move one of 
your Tool Indicators on the Game Board 
1 space to the right. (Please check example 
5 on page 14 for further details.) You 
cannot move a Tool Indicator more than 
once – you may only move differ-
ent ones. The costs are depicted on 
Warden: Flip over a tile with the arrow 
Symbol for free (4) (see also page 2 on 
the Overview).
Woolen Weaver: Per Weaving Loom you 
have (i.e. up to 2, 3, 4, or 5 times), you 
may convert 1 Wool to 1 Woolen. (8)
Dike Builder: Take 1 Sheep or 1 Cattle. 
Additionally or alternatively, carry out 
a “Dike Building” action (see page 9): 
for each Pair of Shovels you have, move 
1 Dike (i.e. 1/2/2/3 Dikes with 
3/4/5/6 Shovels.) (8)
Forester: Pay 1 Food (6) and either take 
a Forest (2), or build a Building (2) 
by paying the costs depicted on the Game 
Board. In either case, place the tile on an 
empty Land Space of your Home Board.
Carpenter: Either build a Building (2) 
by paying the costs depicted on the Game 
Board, or build a Stall (2) for 2 Clay and 
1 Grain. In either case, place the tile on an 
empty Land Space of your Home Board.
Laborer: Pay 2 Food (6) and either 
build a Vehicle (3) by paying its costs, or 
imitate (7) an occupied Summer Action 
Space (regardless of who occupies it). (You 
cannot imitate an occupied Winter Action 
Space.)
•	Please keep in mind that, at any time during the Work Phase, you may visit a Travel Destination to get Food that you may use 
immediately (e.g. for a “Building” action). (You do not have to wait until you empty your Vehicles; you get the Food immediately.) 
General rules:
•	Whenever you may take something, take it from the general supply or move the Goods Indicators on your Goods Track up (unless 
stated otherwise).
•	Whenever you have to pay something, return it to the general supply or move the Goods Indicators on your Goods Track down 
(unless stated otherwise).
There are 3 different types of Conversion Arrows in the game.
•	Brown arrows, like in “1 Hide --> 1 Leather,” indicate that you may carry out the depicted conversion immediately a 
number of times equal to the number of appropriate Tools you have. (For instance, if you have 3 Fleshing Beams, you 
can convert up to 3 Hides to 3 Leather, at a rate of 1 Leather per Hide.)
•	Grey arrows, like in “Field --> Forest,” also indicate that you may carry out the depicted conversion immediately, but 
the number of times you may do so is not limited by Tools. This type of conversion can be found on the Game Board 
(Carpenter) and on Buildings (like the Farmer’s Inn).
•	Yellow arrows, like in “1 Grain + 1 Peat --> 3 Food,” indicate that you may carry out the depicted conversion at any 
time and any number of times. This type of conversion can only be found on buildings (like the Schnapps Distillery). 
The Action Spaces of the Summer/Fall Half Year ( 
symbols refer to page 14)
= / /
The Action Spaces

­
Peat Boatman: Take 3 Peat and, addition-
ally, 1 Peat per Peat Boat you have (for a 
total of 3/4/5/… Peat if you have 0/1/2/… 
Peat Boats). (You may not take the Peat off 
your Moor Tiles.)
Butcher: Per Slaughtering Table you have 
(i.e. up to 2, 3, or 4 times), you may con-
vert 1 Animal of any type to 3 Food and 
2 Hides. You get 1 more Food per Cattle 
you convert. (8)
Builder’s Merchant: Take 
2 Hides. Additionally, take 
1 Wood or 1 Clay, and 1 Timber 
or 1 Brick.
Wood Trader: Pay 1 Food and either 
take 4 Wood, or build a Building (2) by 
paying the costs depicted on the Game 
Board. If you cannot pay the Food because 
you have none left, you may pay 1 Grain 
instead. (6)
Carpenter: Either build a Stall (2) for 
2 Clay and 1 Grain, or exchange a Stall for 
a Stable by paying 2 Bricks. (You cannot 
build Stables directly.) 
Tanner: Per Fleshing Beam you have 
(i.e. up to 3, 5, or 6 times), you may con-
vert 1 Hide to 1 Leather. (8)
Cattle Trader: Take 2 Grain 
and 1 Sheep. Additionally, take 
1 Cattle or 1 Horse. 
Potter: Per Pottery Wheel you have (i.e. 
up to 2, 3, or 4 times), you may convert 
1 Clay to 3 Food and 1 Peat. (You may not 
take the Peat off your Moor Tiles.) (8)
Master: Per Workbench you have (i.e. up 
to 2, 3, or 4 times), you may move one of 
your Tool Indicators on the Game Board 
1 space to the right. (Please check example 
5 on page 14 for further details.) You 
cannot move a Tool Indicator more than 
once – you may only move differ-
ent ones. The costs are depicted on 
 
Dike Warden: Flip over a tile with the 
arrow Symbol for free (4) (see also page 
2 on the Overview). Additionally, 
build 1 Dike (see page 9).
Linen Weaver: Per 
Weaving Loom you 
have (i.e. up to 2, 3, 
4, or 5 times), you may convert 1 Flax to 
1 Linen. (8)
Grocer: Take 1 Peat off one of your Moor 
Tiles. (You may not take the Peat from 
the general supply.) Additionally, take 
1 Animal of any type, 1 Wood, and 1 Clay. 
Baker: Per Oven you have (i.e. up to 1, 
2, 3, or 4 times), you may convert 1 Grain 
and 1 Peat to 6 Food. You may replace 
Grain with Flax and Peat with Wood if you 
have no Grain or Peat, respectively.
Wainwright: Build a Vehicle (3) 
by paying its costs. Additionally or 
alternatively, you may build 1 Peat Boat. 
(The costs of the Vehicles are printed 
on the tiles and in 3; a Peat Boat 
costs 1 Wood.) Place the new pieces of 
Equipment in your Barn.
Laborer: Pay 2 Food (6) and either 
build a Building (2) by paying the costs 
depicted on the Game Board, or imitate 
(7) an occupied Winter Action Space 
(regardless of who occupies it). (You 
cannot imitate an occupied Summer Action 
Space.)
• This illustration stands for 1 Animal of any type: These illustrations stand for Sheep
, Cattle 
 and Horses 
 . 
In particular:
• An expression like “Take 1 Cattle/Horse” indicates that you may choose whether to take 1 Cattle or 1 Horse (in this case).
• An expression like “Pay 1 Grain (Flax)” indicates that you have to pay 1 Grain. Only when you have no Grain may you pay 
1 Flax instead.
• In expressions with “per” (like in “1 Clay per Shovel” at the Clay Worker), you do not lose whatever is written after “per”. 
(For instance, at the Clay Worker you get Clay, but you keep your Shovels.)
• An expression like “Action A and/or Action B” indicates that you may carry out both actions or 
just one of them. A single “or” (without “and”) indicates that you must choose one action or the 
other – you may not use both. If there is no conjunction between the actions, assume there is an 
“and/or” (like at the Colonist or Farmer).
• Some Action Spaces show two actions separated by a long brown line (like at the Fisher). This line is supposed to increase the 
readability and should be treated as “and/or.”
• To “Cut Peat” means that you take a number of Peat Tokens off your Moor Tiles. (Reminder: immediately remove a Moor 
tile from your Home Board as soon as you remove the last Peat Token from it.) To “Take Peat” (like in “+3 Peat” at the 
Peat Boatman), on the other hand, means you get the Peat from the general supply.
• A “Land Space” is any space on your Home Board below the Dike Line (including the Moor Spaces). The spaces above the Dike Line 
are called “Tidal Flat Spaces” and cannot be used (see page 9). 
The Action Spaces of the Winter/Spring Half Year ( 
symbols refer to page 14)
At the Wainwright, 
for instance, you can 
get both a Vehicle 
and a Peat Boat.

Further Details on the Action Spaces
(1) You can get Plows at the Farmer. A Plow costs 1 Wood and either 1 Cattle or 1 Horse. (You do lose the 
Animal. Thematically, this means the Animal will no longer be used for breeding but for work. If you have no space 
left in your Barn, you have to get rid of another piece of Equipment before you get the Plow. Return the old piece of 
Equipment to the Supply Board.)
(2) You have to place Fields, Forests, Stalls, and Buildings on empty Land Spaces of your Home Board (i.e. on empty spaces below 
your Dike Line). (Stalls are not considered Buildings. You can upgrade Stalls to Stables at the Carpenter. Double Stalls, Depots, Parks, 
and Stables cannot be built directly; they can only be upgraded via either of the Warden actions.) In this game, it does not matter on 
which particular Land Space you place your tiles. You may build any of the available Buildings on the Game Board. The costs of each 
Building are depicted there as well: the first four Buildings at the top each cost any 1 Building Material and 1 Grain, the next two Build-
ings each cost 1 Timber and 1 Brick. The Buildings in the middle have individual costs. Each of the Buildings at the bottom left costs 
2 different Building Materials (e.g. 1 Wood and 1 Timber) and 9 Food. Each of the Buildings at the bottom right is considered a Large 
Building and costs 3 Timber, 3 Bricks, and 15 Food. (As indicated at the Carpenter, each Stall costs 2 Clay and 1 Grain.) 
(3) There are 6 different types of Vehicles. They have different costs (and different Victory Point values – VP): 
	Handcart (0 VP):	 Wagon (1 VP):	
Cart (1 VP):	
Horse Cart (2 VP): 	
Carriage (4 VP):	
Droshky (5 VP): 
	
4 Wood	
5 Wood, 1 Horse	
7 Wood, 1 Horse	
4 Wood, 2 Horses	
6 Wood, 2 Horses
If you have no space left in your Barn for a new Vehicle or Peat Boat, you must first get rid of another piece of Equipment of equal size. 
(Return the old piece of Equipment to the Supply Board.) Carts and Horse Carts only have Single Spaces. They are more versatile than 
Carriages and Droshkies, which also come with Double Spaces. On the other hand, Carriages and Droshkies are worth more points.
(4) See page 2 of the Overview for a list of tiles that have an Arrow Symbol. There is no cost for flipping over these tiles. 
(For instance, when you upgrade a Cart to a Horse Cart, you do not need to pay any Wood or Horses.)
(5) Example of a Master action: Currently, you have 2 Workbenches. The Master action allows you to move 1 Tool Indicator per 
Workbench you have – including the Workbench Tool Indicator. This costs 2 Clay, but now you have 3 Workbenches. The additional 
Workbench counts immediately, so you can still move 2 more Tool Indicators (for a total of 3 movements). Alternatively, you can 
keep your 2 Clay, not move the Workbench Tool Indicator and still move 2 other Tool Indicators (e.g. Axes and Ovens). The costs of 
each movement are depicted on the Game Board. Moving the Axe 
Tool Indicator costs 1 Wood; moving the Oven Tool Indicator costs 
1 Brick. You pay for the movement (and not for the individual tool)- 
moving the Spade Tool Indicator increases the number of Spades by 
2, but it still only costs 1 Wood per movement. You may not move 
the same Tool Indicator more than once per Master action.
(6) At the Wood Trader, you may pay Grain instead of Food once you run out of Food. This is not possible on any other Action 
Space.
(7) Whenever you use the Laborer Action Space to imitate another Action Space that is occupied by your opponent, use that other 
Action Space according to your belongings (and not your opponent’s). Two examples: Your opponent has 7 Spades – you only have 
3. You imitate the Peat Cutter Action Space occupied by your opponent. You get 3 Peat (not 7). Alternatively, you 
could imitate one of your own actions: if you occupy the Forester Action Space, you can imitate it to get another 
Forest for a total of 3 Food (2 Food for the “Imitation” action + 1 Food for the Forest).
(8) There are no additional costs involved with these types of actions. In particular, you do not have to pay the 
costs printed in front of the Tool Tracks. (The costs in front of the Tool Tracks are paid when moving the Tool 
Indicators, but not when using the Tools.)
?
When explaining the game to other people, we 
recommend you explain the Action Spaces in the order 
they are printed on the Game Board. Explain the Master 
Action Space first though, because most actions depend 
on the number of specific Tools you have.

Dikes can cover the negative VP 
in the Tidal Flat Area.
Ovens alone can be 
worth up to 7 VP.
Add up the VP of your goods tiles. Bricks, Linen, Woolen, and Leather are each worth 1 VP. 
Summer, Winter, and Leather Wear are each worth 2 VP. Each Timber is worth ½ VP. (Do 
not round the total.)
Add up the VP from your Plows, Peat Boats, and Vehicles. Then, 
subtract 3 VP unless you have at least one Large Vehicle in your 
Barn.
 
The first empty space (from the bottom) on your Travel Experience Track indicates the 
number of VP you get for traveling. 
Travel Experience can be worth up to 10 VP.
Add up the VP of your 
Tools on the 10 Tool 
Tracks on the Game Board.
Each Goods Indicator on space 15 of your Goods Track is worth 3 VP. Each Goods 
Indicator on one of the spaces 11-14 is worth 2 VP. Each Goods Indicator on one of the 
spaces 7-10 is worth 1 VP. (You may distribute the total amount of Food you have between 
your two Food Goods Indicators to optimize the number of VP you get for them.) If you 
have a Depot, double the total number of VP in this category. (You cannot double them 
more than once even if you had multiple Depots.)
Add up the VP from your Buildings, Stalls, Stables, Forests, and Parks. Then, subtract 4 VP 
for each hydrated Moor Section, 1 VP for each dehydrated Moor Section and 1 VP for each 
Tidal Flat Space (of the top row) left on your Home Board. (Animals have their own scoring 
category.)
Each Animal of the type you have the least of is worth 2 VP (see page 9 for details on Animal 
Husbandry). Each Animal of the type you have the second least of is worth 1 VP. Animals of 
the third type are not worth any VP. (Examples: 6 Sheep, 5 Horses, and 4 Cattle are worth 
0+5+8=13 VP. 5 Horses, 4 Cattle and 0 Sheep are worth 0+4+0=4 VP. 3 Horses, 3 Cattle, 
and 3 Sheep are worth 0+3+6=9 VP. Horses and Cattle you paid when acquiring Plows and 
Vehicles are not considered in this category – they are not worth any VP.)
This category was used during the course of the game. Here, you kept track of VP losses due 
to missing Food and Fuel at the end of each Half Year (which should happen rarely, if at all). 
During scoring, you do not lose any additional VP in this category.
You can skim this section when reading this rule book for the first time. However, make sure you read the “Animals on Home Board” 
section carefully: it provides information on how to score your Animals. Every other source of Victory Points is indicated by yellow 
wind roses on the tiles or boards. 
The game ends after 9 rounds at the end of the last Summer Half Year, after the November Inventorying. (Your Animals will 
not breed anymore, because they only do so in May.) Then each player may use his Peat Boat (if he has one) to exchange 
his remaining Peat for other goods that might provide Victory Points on the Goods Track (see the “Goods Track” scoring 
category below). Use the Scoring Pad to write down your Victory Points (VP) in the various scoring categories.
The End of the Game and the Winner
Clothing Tiles and Building 
Materials 
Equipment in the Barn
Travel Experience
Tools
 
Goods Track
VP on Home Board
Animals on Home Board
Supply Bottlenecks
The Solo Game Variant
Finally, the player with the most Victory Points wins. In case of a tie, the Starting Player of a hypothetical 
10th Half Year breaks the tie (i.e. the player who would be Starting Player if another round were played). 
In the solo game, there is no Special Action. This means you cannot use an Action Space of the other Season. Other than that, simply 
place your Workers one by one and try to score as many points as you can. We consider 110 Victory Points a remarkable score.

The appendix provides several overviews. After the credits section, you can find indexes of all the Building and Travel Destination Tiles as 
well as a list of all Tools and pieces of Equipment. After that, we provide a list of all available “tile upgrades” (which are available via either 
of the Warden actions, see pages 12 and 13). On the last page, there is a keyword index. It tells you what certain components are used for 
during the course of this game. Also, you can learn other things about this game and its theme, starting with the credits section.
Page 2 of the Overview presents the various tiles that you may flip.
Credits
“Fields of Arle” is the most autobiographic game designed by Uwe Rosenberg. Its story is set in the village where his father was born and 
where his parents were married. Today, about 1100 people are living in and around Arle. One of the scattered settlements around Arle, 
Beemoor, is a travel destination in this game. This is where Rosenberg’s father grew up on a secluded farm. The “Textile House” building 
in this game is based on the textile house Kanngießer in Aurich, which has been managed by Rosenberg’s mother since 1989; before her, 
it was managed by his grandfather. Uwe Rosenberg grew up in Aurich; in his earliest years, he was even living in the housing space above 
the store. The reason why he is not the third generation managing the store is that he likes designing games way more than worrying about 
textiles. Today, he is well known for games like “Agricola” and “Glass Road”. With his current two-player game “Fields of Arle,” he 
remains true to his overall agricultural theme.
The family of the editor and publisher Frank Heeren has also lived in East Frisia for many generations. Frank Heeren’s father was born 
not far away from Arle – in Schweinsdorf – and in his early years, Frank and his father themselves moved out to the moor to cut peat.
In his book “Altes Handwerk” (“Former Handcraft”), Gerhard Canzler writes about the merits of the soil of Arle. This book was the 
source of Uwe Rosenberg’s inspiration in designing this game. This rule book has been written by Uwe Rosenberg himself. He would 
like to thank all of his proof-readers: Janina Kleinemenke, Sascha Hendiks, Gabriele Goldschmidt, Thorsten Hanson, Michael Wißner, 
and Christof Tisch. He would also like to thank his father Reinhold Rosenberg for his help with the accompanying texts in the appendix. 
This game was realized by Frank Heeren who also grew up in East Frisia, like Uwe Rosenberg. (They both graduated from high school 
in 1989. In their advanced geography classes, they learned a lot about tidal flat and moor areas. They both would like to send their best 
regards to their former teacher and tutor, Mr. Freudenberg.)
The publisher would like to thank Dennis Lohausen for the illustrations and his wonderful contributions to the functionality of the 
components. Many thanks to Grzegorz Kobiela for the English translation. In chronological order, the following people had great 
influence on the game design: Andreas Odendahl, Sascha Hendriks, Dirk Krause, Hagen Dorgathen, Jessica Hüsker, Benjamin Ehlers, 
Frank Heeren, Michael Speckmann, Marco Althoff, Andrea Timm, Lorenz Merdian, Thorsten Roth and Frank Hommes. The designer 
would like to express his great gratitude towards these play-testers. (For instance, travel experience was only introduced after explicit 
requests by some play-testers. Uwe Rosenberg admits – like a true down-to-earth East Frisian – he would have never thought of rewarding 
players with points for their exhaustive travels that he would avoid at all costs.)
Z-Man Games would also like to thank Joshua Edwards and Michael Young for their well-trained eyes. 
The Indexes
 
Index of Building Tiles 
During setup, place the Small Houses on the four spaces at the top of the Game Board (indicated by their green color). All of the 
Small Houses have the same building costs and are each worth 1 Victory Point (VP).
For your first play, we recommend you use the light green Starter Houses. If you build more than one of these Houses, you may decide 
in which order you use them right before the November Inventorying. The Small Houses in detail:
Appendix
Farmer’s House
Year), you receive 1 Clay. 
Additionally, you may cut 
1 Peat before each November 
(including the one before final 
scoring). (You may not take the 
Peat from the general supply. 
You must take it off one of your 
Moor Tiles.)
Plow Maker’s Workshop
Ability: Before November 
(at the end of each Summer 
Half Year), you may place 
1 Field of your choice on an 
empty Land Space of your 
Home Board (below your Dike 
Line). You are not required 
to place a Field. (If you do 
not, you cannot do so later, 
retroactively.) 
Novice’s Hut
Year), you receive 1 Grain 
and 1 Dike (i.e. move the 
bottommost Dike to the next 
free gap above the Dike Line, 
see page 9).
Workshop
Year), you receive 1 Wood and 
1 “Master” action (i.e. you pay 
the costs and move exactly one 
Tool Indicator 1 space to the 
right). 

You can place Peat from the 
general supply on the Single 
Spaces but, unfortunately, not 
on the Double Space.
Weaving Parlor
Ability: At any time during the 
game and any number of times, 
you may pay 3 Flax to receive 
1 Linen and to cut 1 Peat (i.e. 
take 1 Peat off one of your Moor 
Tiles; you may not take the Peat 
from the general supply).
Colonist’s House
the game (and any number of 
times), you may pay 2 Woolen 
to receive 1 Clay and to cut 
1 Peat (i.e. take 1 Peat off one 
of your Moor Tiles; you may 
not take the Peat from the gen-
eral supply).
Carpenter’s Workshop
the game (and any number of 
times), you may pay 4 Food 
and 1 Brick to upgrade one of 
your Stalls to a Stable. (You 
do not need to pay the usual 
2 Bricks on top of that. Keep in 
mind, there are only 3 Stables 
available.)
Schnapps Distillery
Ability: At any time 
during the game and 
any number of times 
(even in-between Har-
vest and Sustenance), 
you may exchange 
1 Grain plus 1 Peat 
for 3 Food.
Litter Storage
the game (and any number 
of times), you may exchange 
3 Flax for 1 Horse if you 
already have at least 2 Horses.
Wood Trader 
the game (and any number 
of times), you may exchange 
1 Timber plus 1 Food for 
2 Wood. (This Building 
provides easy access to Wood 
provided you have enough 
Vehicles.) 
Loading station
Costs: any 1 Building Material and 1 Grain
Ability: At any time during the Work Phase, you may place 1 Peat 
on an empty Single Space (but not Double Space) of one of your 
Vehicles. You may do so any number of times and for any number 
of Vehicles. As usual, you 
only receive the Peat from 
the Vehicles when emptying 
them. (The Peat you place on 
the Vehicles comes from the 
general supply. You may not 
take it off your Moor Tiles.)
Turnery
per Forest you have, receive 1 Wood and 
cut 2 Peat. (Keep your Forests. You may not 
take the Peat from the general supply.)
Smokehouse
cut 1 Peat per Fish Trap you have. (Keep 
your Fish Traps. You may not take the Peat 
from the general supply.)
Smithy
Costs: 1 Timber and 1 Brick
Worth 3 VP 
Ability: Immediately (and only when 
building the Smithy), you may exchange 
Peat Boats, Handcarts, and Wagons (which 
are called “small pieces of Equipment”) 
for Plows. Exchange at a 1:1 ratio and any 
number of times. (Return the exchanged 
pieces of Equipment to the Supply Board.)
Cooperage
determine the number of Dairy Animals 
you have. Dairy Animals are Sheep 
and Cattle. For 5/10/15 Dairy Animals, 
you may move each of your six Goods 
Indicators up by 1/2/3 spaces.
Bakehouse 
Ability: Immediately (and only when 
building the Bakehouse), per Oven you 
have, you may exchange 2 Grain and 
1 Flax for 8 Food. (Keep the Ovens.)
The following Buildings provide an immediate benefit, i.e. you receive a one-time reward as soon as you build them. After you have 
received your reward, you can ignore them for the remainder of the game. They also provide Victory Points (VP) at the end of the game.
 
On the Game Board, below the 4 spaces for the Small Houses, there are 2 spaces for the Minor Craft Buildings (indicated by their 
yellow color). All of the Minor Craft Buildings have the same building costs. At the beginning of the game, determine which 2 of 
those Buildings you will play with.
For subsequent plays, choose 4 of the following dark green Small Houses to play with. (Their back side allows you to differenciate 
between both types of green.)
Each of the Small Houses can be used at any time during the game (especially the Work Phase). (Their abilities may seem a little 
challenging when using them for the first time. Therefore, we recommend you use the Weaving Parlor, Colonist’s House, Carpenter’s Work-
shop, and Schnapps Distillery in your first game with the dark green Buildings.)

At the beginning of the game, place the 6 Major Craft Buildings according to their names on the orange building spaces of the Game 
Board. Each of the Major Craft Buildings has individual costs and is available in every game of “Fields of Arle.”
At the beginning of the game, determine which 3 of the blue Inn Tiles to play with and place them on the blue spaces at the bottom 
left of the Game Board. All of the Inns have the same building costs.
For your first play, we recommend you use the Potter’s Inn, Farmer’s Inn and Junk Dealer’s Inn. 
At the beginning of the game, place the red Large Buildings next to the Inns. All of the Large Buildings have the same building costs 
and are each worth 15 Victory Points (VP).
Mill
Costs: 1 Timber and either 8 Flax or 
8 Grain
Worth 6 VP 
receive 8/10/12 Food if you have 
3/5/6 Fields. (Keep the Fields.) The type of 
Field does not matter, both Grain and Flax 
Fields count. (If you have 2 or fewer Fields, 
you do not receive any Food.)
Weaving Mill
Costs: 2 Bricks and either 10 Flax or 
10 Woolen
Worth 7 VP
Ability: Immediately (and only once), receive 
1 Winter Wear and 
move your Weaving 
Loom Tool Indicator 
(up to) 2 spaces to the 
right for free.
Textile House
Costs: 1 Brick and 2 different pieces of 
Clothing (Summer/Winter/Leather 
Wear)
Worth 9 VP
Ability: Immediately 
(and only once), 
receive 1 Linen, 
1 Woolen, and 
1 Leather. 
Potter’s Inn
receive 1 Animal of any type per Pottery 
Wheel you have. (Keep the Pottery Wheels. 
You may choose the same or different 
Animals. You must accommodate them on 
your Home Board immediately.)
Farmer’s Inn
Worth 3 VP 
Ability: Immediately (and only once), you 
may replace up to 3 of your Fields with 
Forests. (Return the Fields to the Supply 
Board. Keep in mind there is only a limited 
supply of Forest Tiles.)
Junk Dealer’s Inn
either receive 1 Handcart or 1 Peat Boat for 
free. (Place the new piece of Equipment in 
your Barn – make room if needed. If there 
are no more Handcarts or Peat Boats left 
on the Supply Board, you do not receive 
any.) Additionally or alternatively, receive 
1 Leather Wear and 1 Woolen.
Village Church
receive 1 (Wedding) Carriage for free and 
place it in your Barn (provided 
there is still a Carriage left 
on the Supply Board).
Lütetsburg Castle
receive 1 Forest Tile and place it on an 
empty Land Space of your Home Board 
(if available) and move each of your Tool 
Indicators for Spades, Pottery Wheels, and 
Workbenches 1 space to the right for free.
Berum Castle
move each of your Tool Indicators for 
Ovens and Weaving Looms 1 space to the 
right for free. Additionally, you receive 
1 “Tile Upgrade” action (see the 
“Warden” action on page 12). 
Saddlery
Costs: 2 Timber and 3 Leather 
Worth 8 VP
cut 1 Peat per Horse you have. (Keep the 
Horses. You may not take the Peat from the 
general supply.) Afterwards, move your 
Fleshing Beam Tool Indicator 1 space to 
the right for free.
Joinery
Costs: 2 Timber and 5 Grain 
Worth 6 VP
receive 2 Peat per Peat Boat you have, 
and 1 Horse per Plow you have. (Keep 
the Peat Boats and Plows. You must 
accommodate the Horses on your Home 
Board immediately. You must take the Peat 
from the general supply.)
Waterfront House
Costs: 2 Bricks and 25 Food 
Worth 10 VP
receive 10 Food (back from the 25 Food 
you paid), 2 Dikes (i.e. move the 
2 bottommost Dikes to the next free gaps 
above the Dike Line), and move your Fish 
Trap Tool Indicator (up to) 3 spaces to the 
right for free.
Gulf House Inn
receive 1 Timber per Stall you have, and 
1 Brick per Stable you have. (You may not 
take Timber instead of Bricks.) Double 
Stalls are considered 2 separate Stalls, so 
you receive 2 Timber per Double Stall. 
Milk House Inn
receive 1 Cattle, and afterwards, 1 “Cut 
Peat” action per Cattle you have. (Keep the 
Cattle. You may not take the Peat from the 
general supply.)
Sluice Yard Inn
Ability: Immediately (and only once), move 
the Fish Trap Tool Indicator 1 space to the 
right for free. Then 
take 1 Wood per Fish 
Trap you have (i.e. 2, 
3, 4, 5, or 6 Wood).

Index of Travel Destination Tiles
Keep in mind that you may only place a Travel Destination Tile on one of your Vehicles if you immediately sell 
at least one of the depicted items. Each item on the tile can only be sold once. You cannot sell things that are not 
depicted on the tile. The proceeds from the sale are always some amount of Food. (Keep in mind that you cannot 
store more than 30 Food.) Food is needed primarily for the “Waterfront House” Building (see page 18), the Large 
Buildings and Inns, and, of course, for Sustenance. 
The size of each tile (i.e. the number of spaces it requires on your Vehicle) is given in parentheses. The Travel Experience Track on the 
left side of your Home Board has 19 spaces. When you remove a Travel Destination Tile from a Vehicle and place it on that track, it will 
cover 1-4 of these spaces according to its size.
The Travel Destination Tiles in detail: 
Hage (1): 	
Immediately remove a Field from your Home Board and receive 1 Food.
Beemoor (1): 	 Remove 1 Peat from your supply (but not from your Home Board) and receive 2 Food. 
Dornum (1): 	
Return a Plow from your Barn to the Supply Board and receive 8 Food.
Norden (2):	
Sell 1 to 3 of the depicted items. You receive 4 Food for a Sheep and 7 Food for Winter Wear. Additionally or alternatively, 
return a Peat Boat from your Barn to the Supply Board and receive 5 Food.
Aurich (2):	
Sell 1 to 3 of the depicted items. You receive 4 Food for Leather (which you cannot replace with Leather Wear), 5 Food for 
a Horse, and 4 Food for an Animal of any type (which may be another Horse). 
Esens (2):	
Sell 1 to 3 of the depicted items. You receive 4 Food for 2 Grain (you cannot sell a single Grain), 2 Food for a Hide, and 
4 Food for Woolen.
Emden (3):	
Sell 1 to 4 of the depicted items. You receive 7 Food each for Winter and Leather Wear, and 6 Food for Summer Wear. 
Additionally or alternatively, you can remove 1 Peat from your supply (but not from your Home Board) and receive 3 Food.
Leer (3):	
Sell 1 to 4 of the depicted items. You receive 2 Food for Flax, 3 Food for Linen (which you cannot replace with Summer 
Wear), 5 Food for Cattle, and 6 Food for either Summer, Winter or Leather Wear. 
Bremen (4): 	
Sell 1 to 5 of the depicted items. You receive 5 Food for Timber, 9 Food for 2 Animals of the same type, 12 Food for a 
set of Linen, Woolen and Leather, and 30 Food (any excess Food is lost) for a set of Summer, Winter and Leather Wear. 
Additionally or alternatively, you may remove a Moor Tile from your Home Board (regardless of which side is facing 
up and whether there is still Peat left on it or not, including the small Moor Tile that had Peat since the beginning of the 
game). Remove the tile immediately. The Peat from the tile, if any, is lost. You do not receive any Food for this but, on the 
other hand, you will not lose points for the tile.
Index of Equipment and Tools
You keep your pieces of Equipment in your Barn. The space is limited. You have 4 Parking Spaces for small pieces of Equipment (including 
the Small Vehicles) and 3 Parking Spaces for Large Vehicles. (Alternatively, the bottommost Parking Space for Large Vehicles can be used 
to store a fifth small piece of Equipment.)
Piece of Equipment
Category
Costs
VP
Function
Plow
Small piece of Equipment
1 Wood and 1 Horse/Cattle
provides Fields with the “Farmer” action
Peat Boat
Small piece of Equipment
allows you to exchange 1 Peat for 1 good of the 
Goods Track at any time
Handcart
Small Vehicle
1 Single Space for loading
Small Vehicle
4 Wood
2 Single Spaces for loading that cannot be combined
Cart
Lartge Vehicle
5 Wood and 1 Horse
3 Single Spaces for loading
Horse Cart
7 Wood and 1 Horse
4 Single Spaces for loading
Carriage
4 Wood and 2 Horses
1 Single Space and 1 Double Space for loading
Droshky
6 Wood and 2 Horses
2 Single Spaces and 1 Double Space for loading
The Game Board keeps track of the number of Tools you have. There are 10 types of Tools. You may get Victory Points (VP) at the end of 
the game if you have a lot of Tools of a certain type (see below).
Tool
Number at the Beginning of the Game
 Costs per Increase
Increments
Fish Traps
3, 4, 5, and finally 6 (3 VP)
Fleshing Beams
5 (1 VP) and finally 6 (3 VP)
Weaving Looms
3 (1 VP), 4 (3 VP), and finally 5 (4 VP)
Slaughtering 
Tables
1 Clay
3 (1 VP) and finally 4 (2 VP)
Spades
5 and finally 7 (2 VP)
Shovels*
4, 5, and finally 6
Pottery Wheels
1 Clay
3 and finally 4 (2 VP)
Ovens
1 Brick
2 (1 VP), 3 (5 VP), and finally 4 (7 VP)
Axes
4, 5, and finally 6
Workbenches
2 Clay
3 (1 VP) and finally 4 (4 VP)
* Used to determine the number of Pairs of Shovels you have.
Beemoor - a trip 
to Rosenberg’s 
childhood home

What do I need … for?
Goods
… Food: to build the Waterfront House, the Inns, and the 
Large Buildings, as well as for Sustenance each Half Year 
and for certain actions (like Imitation at the Laborer)
… Flax: to produce Linen, to use the Weaving Parlor, and to 
build the Weaving Mill and the regular Mill
… Grain: to use the Schnapps Distillery, for the Baker, some-
times as a replacement for Food, as well as to build the 
green buildings, the Joinery, and the Mill
… Wool: to produce Woolen, to build the Weaving Mill, and 
to use the Colonist’s House
… Hides: to produce Leather
… Leather: for processing, for sale in Aurich, and to build he 
Saddlery
… Wears: for sale at various Travel Destinations and to build 
the Textile House
Animal Husbandry
… a lot of Animals of the same type: for the Butcher and for 
sale in Bremen 
… a lot of Sheep and Cattle: to receive Food at the end of a 
Summer Half Year and to use the Cooperage
… a lot of Sheep: to receive Wool at the end of a Winter Half 
Year
… a lot of Cattle: to receive more Food at the Butcher, to build 
Plows, and to use the Milk House Inn more efficiently
… a lot of Horses: for Large Vehicles and Plows as well as for 
the function of the Saddlery
… Stalls: for animal husbandry and for the function of the Car-
penter’s Workshop 
… Stables: for animal husbandry, to use your Land Spaces 
more efficiently, and as a prerequisite for a Double Stall 
… Stalls and Stables: to use the Gulf House Inn
Equipment
… at least one Plow: for sale in Dornum 
… multiple Plows: to plow Fields at the Farmer, to use 
the Mill more efficiently 
… at least one Peat Boat: to exchange Peat for goods of 
the Goods Track
… multiple Peat Boats: to receive more Peat at the Peat 
Boatman, to use the Joinery more efficiently, and for 
sale in Norden
…  Handcarts and Wagons: to produce Timber and 
Bricks continuously, to sell a Plow for Food in Dor-
num, and to receive Plows when building the Smithy
… Large Vehicles: for Timber, Bricks, and Clothing, as 
well as for all of the large Travel Destinations
… Horse Carts: to produce two Summer Wear per sea-
son and to use the Vehicle Firm more efficiently
… Horse Carts and Droshkies: for the “Bremen” Travel 
Destination Tile
Building Materials and Peat
… Wood: as a building material for Buildings, as a 
resource for Timber and Equipment
… Clay: as a building material for Buildings, as a 
resource for Bricks and Stalls
… Timber: as a building material for Buildings (the 
Large Buildings in particular), to use the Wood 
Trader, and for sale in Bremen
… Bricks: as a building material for Buildings (the 
Large Buildings in particular) and to upgrade 
Stalls to Stables
… Peat: for sustenance at the end of a Summer Half 
Year, to produce Bricks, for the Baker, to trade for 
other goods (if you also have a Peat Boat), as well 
as to use the Schnapps Distillery
 
Landscape Tiles
… Forests: to receive Wood at the end of a Sum-
mer Half Year, as a prerequisite for a Park, 
and to use the Turnery
… Parks: for additional Victory Points (if you 
do not need the Wood income anymore to-
wards the end) and to hold two Animals
… at least three Fields: to use the Mill at all 
and to use the Farmer’s Inn more efficiently
… a lot of Fields: to receive Grain and Flax at 
the end of a Summer Half Year
… Tidal Flat Spaces: you cannot use the spaces 
beyond the Dike Line
Tools
… a few Fish Traps: to get more after 
building the Waterfront House
… a lot of Fish Traps: for the Fisher-
man and to use the Smokehouse and 
the Sluice Yard Inn more efficiently 
 
… exactly five Fleshing Beams: for the 
Tanner and to get more after building 
the Saddlery
… exactly three Pottery Wheels: to get 
more after building the Lütetsburg 
Castle
… multiple Pottery Wheels: for the 
Potter and to use the Potter’s Inn more 
efficiently
… at least two Ovens: to gain additional 
Victory Points when building the Be-
rum Castle
… multiple Ovens: for the Baker and to 
use the Bakehouse more efficiently
… exactly three Workbenches: to gain 
additional Victory Points when build-
ing the Lütetsburg Castle
Do not read this page before your first game, but consult it if the need arises.