1.0. Introduction	
	
	
	
1.1. Concept	
	
1.2. Components	
	
2.0. Preparing For A Mission	
	
	
2.1. Choose A Campaign And Mission 	
	
2.2. Set Up The Map	
	
2.3. Organize Your Companies Assets		
3.0. Sequence Of Play	
	
	
	
3.1. Friendly Higher HQ Event Phase	 	
	
3.2. Defensive Mission: Enemy Activity Phase	
	
3.3. Friendly Command Phase	
	
	
3.4. Offensive Missions & Combat Patrols	
	
3.5. Mutual Capture & Retreat Phase 	
	
3.6. Mutual Vehicle-Aircraft Phase 	
	
3.7. Mutual Combat Phase 	
	
3.8. Clean Up Phase	
4.0. Command & Control	
	
	
	
4.1. Commands	
	
	
	
4.2. Actions	
	
	
4.3. Communication	
	
	
5.0. Infantry Movement & Terrain	
	
5.1. Movement 	
	
	
5.2. Terrain	
	
6.0. Infantry Combat	
	
	
	
6.1. Engaging/Opening Fire	
6.2. Volume Of Fire (VOF)/Primary Direction Of Fire 22
	
6.3. Combat Resolution	
 	
	
 
 
 6.4. Weapon Types & Restrictions	
	
6.5. Grenade Attacks	
	
6.6. Concentrated Fire Attacks	
	
6.7. Indirect Fire Missions	
	
6.8. Ammunition	
	
6.9. Combat Effects	
7.0. Vehicles	
	
	
	
	
7.1. Commands	
	
	
7.2. Activating Vehicles	
	
7.3. Movement	
	
7.4. Transport	
	
	
	
7.5. Vehicle Activation & Actions	
	
7.6. Resolving AT Combat	
	
7.7. AT Combat Results	
	
7.8. Ammunition	
8.0 Visibility	
	
	
	
	
8.1. Limited Visibility Effects	
	
	
8.2. Illumination	
	
8.3. Night Observation Devices	
	
	
8.4. Smoke	
	
9.0 The Enemy	 	
	
	
	
9.1. Potential Contact	
	
9.2. Generating Enemy Forces 	
	
9.3. Spotting The Enemy	
	
9.4. Enemy Activity Checks	
	
9.5. Mines, Booby Traps, & Claymores	
	
9.6. Snipers	
	
9.7. Leaders	
	
9.8. Indirect Fire Spotters	
	
9.9. Enemy Ammunition	
	
9.10. Enemy Vehicles	
	
	
10.0. Rallying, Reconstituting & Experience 	
	
10.1. Rally	
	
	
10.2. Reconstituting	
	
10.3. Experience	 	
	
	
10.4. Replacements	
	
10.5. Rotations	
	
10.6. Multi-step Experience Levels	
11.0. Victory Conditions		
	
11.1. Reattempting A Failed Mission	
	
11.2. Relief For Cause	
	
11.3. Between Missions	
	
11.4. Combat Patrols	
#xxxx
Table of contents

1. Introduction
Welcome to Fields of Fire. 
Fields of Fire is a solitaire game. This means you make all the 
decisions for your units and, with help from charts and tables in the 
game, the activities of the enemy. Fields of Fire is a diceless game. 
Instead, decks of cards are used to generate the battlefield, resolve 
combats, provide possible outcomes for all of your decisions and 
control the appearance and activities of the enemy. Note that Fields 
of Fire is both the name of this game and the name of its game 
system. It is our intention to publish additional games and missions 
using the Fields of Fire system.
Fields of Fire is a complex game without being a complex game 
system. The basic components (movement, combat, orders, com-
munication, etc.) are very straightforward. Within each component 
there are multiple activities to choose. Each activity will have an 
outcome, some favorable and some not. Even at the beginning of a 
mission/scenario your choices will seem infinite. This and the in-
teractions created by your choices means decisions and more deci-
sions. Herein lies the complexity. Each decision must be made for 
the game to continue. You’ll have many choices to make without 
having nearly enough resources. Your actual choices will determine 
whether you emerge from your mission successfully 
or not.
Your role in Fields of Fire is that of a company commander. Your 
command will include three platoons of three squads each and 
supporting weapons teams. You may also have your own weapon 
teams as support and have additional off board artillery. A company 
executive officer and CO first sergeant will be there to assist you.
Your task in Fields of Fire is to successfully guide your company 
through a campaign of a number of missions. Before each mission 
you’ll have to formulate a plan of action and allocate your limited 
resources. During the mission you will issue orders to your units 
and choose the tactics to accomplish your objective. Your orders 
will win or lose the mission. After the mission you raise your expe-
rience levels and incorporate replacements for your casualties.
This is the second edition of the rules. Numerous examples of play 
accompany the rules. Wherever possible the examples are taken 
from the Advanced Tutorial found on GMT’s website.
 
1.1. Concept
You use the following items to play the game: two decks of cards 
(a Terrain Deck and an Action Deck), counters representing the ele-
ments of the company and enemy units, and various markers. The 
Terrain Deck forms a map on which to play a mission. The Action 
Deck applies to many procedures throughout the game, from giving 
command and control capacity to resolving combat and various 
other activities.
 
1.1.1. Scale
A. Ground Scale 
Ground scale is abstract. Each Terrain Card represents a geo-
graphic area where Company leaders can reasonably exercise 
command and control of their units through voice and hand 
signals. The size of this area depends on the terrain, ranging from 
10-20 meters across in close terrain to 40-100+ meters in more 
open terrain. Accordingly, Range and Line of Sight are abstract 
as well.
B. Time Scale 
The time of a turn is abstract, too, and typically covers 5 to 30 
minutes. Missions last a given number of turns, normally 10 to 
12. The turn limit covers the cumulative effect of fatigue and 
consumption of small arms ammunition.
C. Unit Scale 
Infantry units have between 1 and 3 Steps with each Step repre-
senting 2 to 3 men. Units with 2 or 3 Steps are called squads, and 
units with a single Step are called teams. A vehicle or aircraft unit 
represents a single vehicle or aircraft.
1.1.2. Campaigns
Choose one of the three available campaigns. This determines what 
units and equipment are available and which missions to complete. 
The corresponding Campaign Instructions in the Briefings Booklet 
details what forces and equipment are available and lists the enemy 
forces that may be encountered.
1.1.3. Missions
Each campaign has seven missions, though you can play a mission 
“stand alone,” too. The Mission Instructions for each mission in 
the Briefings Booklet provide the rules and charts specific to that 
mission. The intent is for each mission to be playable in a single 
session.
Playing a mission involves two distinct parts: preparation and im-
plementation. Preparation is the set-up and planning of the mission. 
Implementation is the movement and action portion and is played 
in a series of game turns divided into a sequence of phases. While 
playing a turn your command elements receive commands that they 
exchange for actions. Enemy forces enter play automatically as 
governed by the rules and mission charts, and activity checks guide 
their actions. The sequence of play differs slightly depending on 
whether you are attacking or defending.
1.2. Components
There are several types of components used during play. This sec-
tion provides the orientation and location of information on the 
components and the following sections detail how they all work 
together.
The game contains the following:
• This Rules Booklet
• A Briefings Booklet
• A Normandy Terrain Deck of 55 cards
• A Korea Terrain Deck of 55 cards
• A Vietnam Lowlands Terrain Deck of 55 cards
• An Action Deck of 50 cards
• Four two-sided hint cards and one reshuffle card
• Five sheets of 5/8 inch counters & markers (total of 880)
• One double-sided 11” by 17” Player Aid Cards
• Two double-sided 8.5” x 11” Player Aid Cards
• A Command Display, single-sided 
• A Mission Log Pad, two-sided, expendable
1.2.1. Terrain Cards
Each campaign has a specific Terrain Deck that represents terrain 
typical to that area. During Play, you randomly lay out terrain cards 
in a grid of rows and columns as indicated for each mission to cre-
ate the map on which the game is played out.
 
A. Cover & Concealment 
The number in the circle in the upper left indicates the intrinsic 
defensive value of the terrain on the card and benefits all units 
that occupy that card. 
Some cards have two values. Use the higher value Cover and 
Concealment number if any fire is coming across a dark border. If 
all fire is coming across white borders as Incoming fire, indirect 
mortar fire, or from within the card itself, then use the lower 
number. Direct Lay Mortar Fire is subject to the card borders. 
Note that the higher number is in larger font, above and to the left 
of the lower number. 
 
B. Trafficability 
A tank icon with “SLOW” or “NO” on it indicates the card has 
limited trafficability to all vehicles. “SLOW” means a vehicle 

must stop moving when it enters that card. “NO” means a vehicle 
may not enter the card. (See 7.3.1.)
C. Line of Sight Border 
There is a border around the perimeter of each card that consists 
of white and dark segments. Dark borders block the tracing of 
Lines of Sight (LOS) but white borders do not. (See 5.2.1.) Be-
cause there can be eight cards adjacent to a given terrain card, the 
border of each card is divided into eight areas. Use the solid area 
on the appropriate corner when fire enters the target card from a 
card diagonally adjacent. Use the dashed area on the appropriate 
side when fire enters from a card orthogonally adjacent.
D. Hills 
You place other Terrain Cards on top of Hill Cards to raise the el-
evation of the top card by one level. Multiple hills may be played 
on top of each other, each one raising the level by one. It helps to 
offset a Terrain Card slightly from the underlying Hill Card so it 
is easily recognizable. (See 5.2.2.)
E. LZ Potential 
In campaigns where helicopters are used, this notation indicates 
the card may be used as a Landing Zone. (See 7.3.2.)
F. Cover Potential 
Cover is an abstraction of the finding and use of specific locations 
within a card that give more protection. On the lower left of each 
card is an icon (usually a tree or a building) containing a number. 
That number indicates the maximum number of Cover Markers 
that can be found on the card. On the lower center of each card is 
an icon of cards, also containing a number. That number indi-
cates how many cards to draw when attempting to locate a Cover 
Marker. (See 5.2.3.)
G. Elevation /Multi-Story 
Some cards have an icon in the upper right that indicates if the 
card contains elevation differences (plus or minus 1 level) or a 
multistory building. (See 5.2.2.)
H. Incoming VOF Modifier 
If a card has a Burst icon on it, apply the number in that icon as a 
modifier to any Incoming Volume of Fire (VOF). (See 6.2.2.)
I. Capacity 
Though it is not printed on the cards, every card has a maximum 
capacity for any one side of 16 Steps and 4 vehicles. As long as 
Steps are embarked on the vehicles they do not count against this 
limit.
 
1.2.2. Action Cards
 
Action Cards are used in all campaigns. They serve the purpose that 
charts and dice serve in many “traditional” war games.
 
A. Command Section 
This section at the top left of each card has two numbers, a large 
one in a helmet on the top left, and a smaller one in a US star 
symbol below and to the right of the first number. The number in 
the helmet indicates how many commands are available to an HQ 
when it is activated. The smaller number in the star symbol tells 
how many commands are available to an HQ that has not been 
activated, which is known as initiative.
B. Action Attempt Section 
The whole upper right quadrant of the card is the Action Attempt 
Section, and the items in that section (“Contact,” “Spotted,” 
“Higher HQ,” and “Anti-tank Number”) are described elsewhere 
in the rules.
C. Combat Resolution 
This section appears along the left side of the card and vertically 
lists numbers from -4 to +6 and HIT, PIN or MISS. The number 
is the net modifier for Volume of Fire plus Cover & Conceal-
ment and various other conditions. The words HIT, PIN or MISS 
indicates whether the target has taken effective fire.
D. Hit Effect Section 
This section is just below the Action Attempt section and is used 
when an infantry unit is HIT to determine the effect of that hit 
based on the Experience Level of the target unit (Veteran, Line, 
or Green).
E. Random Number Section (R#) 
Along the bottom of the card is the random number generator. 
Many game functions require that something be determined 
randomly among a variety of options. The top number is the 
number of options and the bottom number is the result to use. For 
instance, to determine which of 3 options to use, just draw a card, 
find the 3 column, and note that 2 is under the 3. Thus, you would 
use option 2.
F. Drawing Cards 
To insure the Action deck is randomized sufficiently to give the 
proper distribution of results, most activities require a number of 
cards be drawn. Always draw the full number to determine the 
result; do not draw until a result happens and stop short. If you 
Activated 
Comands.
EXAMPLE B
Initiative 
Comands.
Combat
Resolution.
Random Number 
Section
Card Number.
Hit Effect
Anti-tank
Number.
Spotted, 
Concentrate Fire, 
Grenade!, Call for 
Fire or Infiltration 
Contact,
Cover or Rally.
Higher HQ
Event.
EXAMPLE A
Special
Instructions
Terrain
Type
Cover & Concealment: 
Dark Border block LOS & Gets Higher Cover & Concealment 
Clear Border doesn’t block LOS & Gets lower Cover & Concealment
Slow Go or No Go.
Slow - Vehicles must stop when entering
No Go - Vehicles may not enter
Number of Draws Al-
lowed.
Rural 
Cover.
Urban Cover.
Incoming 
VOF Modifier.
LOS Borders

encounter the reshuffle card, set it aside, reshuffle, and then place 
the reshuffle card back somewhere near the middle of the deck. 
Once reshuffled, finish drawing the cards and then flip them to 
determine the result.
1.2.3. Units
Any non-vehicle unit is an infantry unit and has a unit identifier, a 
unit symbol, possibly a Volume of Fire (VOF) Rating, a number of 
Steps, and possibly a Range Rating.
A. Squads 
A squad is a unit of two or three Steps and is the primary infan-
try combat unit of maneuver in the game. 
 
B. Headquarters (HQs) 
These are one Step units that function as the com-
mand elements of the Company. They have no VOF 
or Range Ratings listed on the front. This is its com-
mand mode side, used when the unit commands itself 
and other units to perform actions. The reverse side 
is its Fire Team side that has VOF and Range Ratings. This side 
is used when the unit engages directly in combat and limits its 
ability to serve its primary command function.
C. Forward Observers (FOs)/Spotters 
These are one Step units whose purpose is to call in 
indirect fire missions from mortars, artillery, or to 
control close air support. They have no VOF or Range 
listed on the front, which is the observer side. On the 
back is the Fire Team side that has VOF and Range 
Ratings and is used when the unit engages directly in 
combat. Such a unit cannot call in fire when it is on its 
Fire Team side.
D. Weapons Teams 
These are one Step units that represent the crew 
that operates specific crew-served weapons such as 
machine-guns, rocket launchers, mortars, and recoil-
less rifles.
E. Vehicles /Aircraft 
Each of these units represents a single vehicle or 
aircraft. Additional information for vehicles and 
aircraft that would not fit conveniently on the counter 
is located on the Player Aid Card.
F. Limited Action Teams (LATs) 
These units are one Step units labeled as Assault, 
Fire, Litter, or Paralyzed Teams. They are created 
during the course of play by combat or by command. 
Each has its own set of limitations.
G. Casualties 
These are one Step units that represent soldiers 
killed or injured enough to be hors de combat. These 
units have no capability. They exist to be potentially 
evacuated or captured.
H. Staff 
These are one Step units that assist the Company HQ 
or the Higher HQ. For the Company level these are 
the Executive Officer (XO) and the first Sergeant 
(1st Sgt). At the higher HQ level the term Staff encompasses the 
Regimental or Brigade Commander (Rgt/Bde Cmdr), Battalion 
Commander (Bn Cmdr), or the Battalion Operations Officer (BN 
S-3). The two levels, Company and Higher, function differently 
in the course of the game. All Battalion Level Staff units are con-
sidered to have an Experience Level of Line.
I. Runners 
These are one step units with no ratings. They allow 
the Company HQ to communicate with a Platoon HQ 
when no radio or telephone network is available.
J. Assets 
These counters represent various pieces of equip-
ment such as radios, phones, phone lines, or 
pyrotechnic devices. These are normally held on 
the Command Display to ease allocation and reduce 
clutter on the map.
 
1.2.4. Markers
 
Fields of Fire uses a variety of informational markers to reduce 
record keeping on paper and the amount of information the player 
needs to remember.
A. Combat (VOF, PDF, Concentrated Fire, Crossfire) 
These are colored red. Use them to determine the net 
combat modifier when resolving combat.
B. Exposed/Pin 
Use the front side of these to mark units exposed 
during movement and the reverse side for units that 
are pinned during combat. Each side has a modifier 
that is part of the net combat modifier for any marked 
units.
C. Tactical Control 
These markers represent the graphical controls that 
Line commanders put on their maps to help control 
fire and maneuver. (See 2.4.1.)
D. Cover 
There are three basic types of Cover Markers: basic, 
urban, and field fortifications. These represent spe-
cific locations within the area of the card that provide 
greater protection. (See 5.2.3.)
E. Ammo 
Ammunition is only tracked for certain types of 
weapons, and that is done on the Mission Log. 
However, when ammo is transported around the 
battlefield, these markers represent that ammo. The 
number on each marker indicates the number of ammo points 
it represents.
F. Potential Contact/Current Activity 
The Potential Contact and the Current Activity Mark-
ers work together to regulate the appearance of the 
enemy during the course of a mission. (See 9.1.)
G. Weather /Visibility 
The Visibility Marker is used to remind the player 
how the current visibility condition affects the net 
combat modifier.
 
1.2.5. Player Aids
A. Mission Log - 2 sided, expendable 
A sheet of the Mission Log is used during a mission to track the 
following information:
• Company organization
• Unit Experience Levels
EXAMPLE C
Unit ID
Steps
Range
Volume Of Fire
S=Small Arms
A=Automatic Weapons
H=Heavy Weapons
G!=Grenade
S!=Sniper
P = Point Blank Range (Same Card)
C = Close Range (Adjacent Card)
L = Long Range (2nd Card)
V = Very Long Range (3rd Card)

• Casualties
• Ammunition available and expended
• Fire missions available and expended
• Pre-designated actions for available pyrotechnic signals
• Units or Steps not committed to the mission
B. Player Aid Card(s) 
These contain the charts and tables needed for play. 
C. Command Display 
This is the one-sided card with a number track and holding 
boxes. The track is used to record the turn and any saved com-
mands. There are holding boxes for distributing assets like radios, 
phones, and pyrotechnic devices among the HQs and Staff Offi-
cers, as well as boxes for evacuated casualties and units removed 
from play.
D. Briefings Booklet 
This booklet contains the following information:
• An introductory section explaining its use.
• For each campaign, Campaign Instructions showing the 
Company organization, the equipment available, and an 
Enemy Force Packages Table showing the composition of 
revealed enemy forces.
• For each mission, Mission Instructions detailing all 
the information necessary to setup, play, and determine 
completion and experience for each of the 21 missions in the 
game. Generally, the first page of each mission’s instructions 
contains information about the US forces, while the second 
page contains information about the enemy forces.
• Historical information for each campaign.
1.2.6. Glossary
Adjacent -- To be on a card next to a given card is to be adjacent 
to that card. Including diagonals, there are eight possible adjacent 
cards to any specific card.
Asset — An asset is a piece of equipment that promotes command
and control or visibility. Assets include pyrotechnics (smoke 
grenades and flares—see 4.3.6.), radios (see 4.3.5.), and telephones 
(see 4.3.4.). HQs and Staff units normally carry these. For HQ and 
Staff place them in the applicable boxes on the Command Display 
until ready for use, other units may carry and use them by placing 
them under that unit.
Attachments — These are additional units listed in the instruc-
tions for each mission that are available for that mission. Assign 
each such unit to a specific HQ on the Mission Log before the 
beginning of a mission. (See 2.3.3.)
Basic VOF — Fire from a combat unit as per the counter:, Small 
Arms (S), Automatic Weapons (A), and Heavy Weapons (H). In-
cludes All Pinned.
Chain of Command — All units belong to a particular HQ at 
the beginning of a mission. HQs can only issue commands to sub-
ordinate units and HQs, and to itself. For example, a unit of the 1st 
Platoon receives orders from the 1st Platoon’s HQ. The 1st PLT HQ 
is subordinate to the CO HQ. The CO HQ is subordinate to the Bat-
talion HQ, which is subordinate to the Regimental HQ. This means 
that a unit of the 1st Platoon can receive orders from the 1st PLT 
HQ, CO HQ, Battalion HQ, Regimental HQ, or their Staffs, but it 
cannot receive orders from the 2nd PLT HQ. Limited Action Teams 
may receive orders from any HQ or Staff unit.
Combat Units — Combat Units include any good order units, 
Assault or Fire Teams, and any unit with a printed VOF value.
Commands and Actions — HQs exert command and control 
through the use of Command Points. The more Command Points 
held by an HQ, the greater its ability to direct its units in carrying 
out their objective. You get Command Points for an HQ by drawing 
an Action Card and consulting the Command Section of the Card 
(1.2.2.a) to determine the number of activated or initiative Com-
mand Points received. Then, have the HQs spend Command Points 
for Actions, causing units to perform various activities such as mov-
ing, firing, and rallying. (See 4.)
Convert — To convert a unit means to change a unit’s ability as 
the result of combat and Actions. You convert Steps, Teams, and 
LATs into various LATs as you play out a mission.
Current Activity Level — No Contact, Contact, Engaged and 
Heavily Engaged.
Engaged — A unit projecting a VOF marker.
Experience Levels — A unit’s experience governs its chances 
of successfully completing Actions. Experienced units are more 
likely to complete Actions successfully. All Infantry Units have an 
Experience Level of Green, Line, or Veteran. Units start a campaign 
at the Experience Level prescribed by the Campaign Section in the 
Briefings Booklet. During a mission, the Company gains Experi-
ence Points, which increase the Experience Level of surviving units 
for the next mission.
Good Order Unit — This is any Infantry Unit that is not a Lim-
ited Action Team and not PINNED. 
Illuminated — This refers to a Terrain Card lit by illumination 
devices.
Infantry Unit — Any unit that is not a vehicle is an Infantry 
Unit. If the term Unit is used in the rules, assume it is an Infantry 
Unit.
Occupied, Cleared, and Secured Cards — A terrain card is 
Occupied when there is at least one friendly unit on the card. A ter-
rain card is Cleared if there are no enemy units or Potential Contact 
Markers on the card. A terrain card is Secured when it is both Oc-
cupied and Cleared. Ignore any enemy casualties or VOF Markers 
on a card when determining if the card is Cleared.
Primary Direction of Fire (PDF) — A marker which indi-
cates the direction to a given unit’s VOF marker. A PDF marker is 
not placed if you engage an enemy unit on your same card.
Reconstitute — To reconstitute means to make a battlefield pro-
motion of a good order unit to replace (between missions) the CO 
HQ or a Platoon HQ that was removed from play OR to put a squad 
back into play (during a mission) from 2 or 3 teams. (See 10.1.)
Removed from play — Remove from the map any unit 
replaced by other counters, such as a squad that drops below two 
Steps and becomes a Fire Team or any team that is converted to a 
Litter Team, Paralyzed Team, or Casualty. A unit removed in this 
way can only be returned via reconstituting. (See 10.1.)
 
Special VOFs (these require an attempt) — Sniper, Incoming, 
Mines, and Grenade.
Steps — A step is the common measurement of unit size in the 
game. Units have between one and three steps, with each step repre-
senting between two and four men. Units with two or three steps 
may break down into different units during play, either voluntarily 
or as a result of combat. Because these units have various weapons, 
a diagram is provided at the end of the rules to show how various 
units break down.
Team — A Team is any 1 Step unit. There are several varieties of 
Teams used in the game.
• FO Team - A forward observer unit that provides fire support 
from off-map agencies such as artillery, mortars, and aircraft.
• Weapons Team – A unit composed of a particular weapon and 

2. Preparing for a Mission
No Company commander would willingly enter a battle without 
properly organizing his command, understanding the assets avail-
able to him and their capabilities, and mapping out the terrain on 
which his soldiers will operate. Before you begin playing a mission 
of Fields of Fire, you will have to spend a little time doing these 
things, too.
2.1. Choose a Campaign and a Mission
First, choose one of the three campaigns: Normandy World War II, 
Naktong Korea, or III Corps Vietnam. Then, choose a mission from 
that campaign. If you just want to play a single mission by itself, 
you can choose any mission. However, if you want to play the 
entire campaign, you should start with Mission 1. Either way, look 
at your Company’s Order of Battle in the Briefings Book to see 
what forces you have available, and check the mission instructions, 
especially the Mission Details section, for set-up information about 
that mission.
2.2. Set Up the Map
The game map in Fields of Fire consists of Terrain Cards drawn at 
random and arranged into a grid. The Mission Details will tell you 
how many rows and columns you need to lay out. Columns extend 
vertically away from you, while rows extend horizontally across 
your front. Thus, a 4-column, 3-row map would look like this:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1. Lay Out the Terrain Cards
Shuffle the terrain deck and (unless the Mission Details specify 
otherwise), randomly lay out the Terrain Cards in specified number 
of columns and rows. Unless the Mission Details tell you other-
wise, place the Terrain Cards face-up; for some missions where the 
quality of maps available in the historical campaign was poor, you 
are instructed to place the cards face-down, but the default posi-
its crew, including machine-guns, recoilless rifles, and mortars.
• Limit Action Team (LAT) - A unit created by Commands or 
as the result of combat during the Combat Effects Phase. As 
their name suggests, they have limits on their abilities. LAT is a 
collective abbreviation referring to the four types of LATs:
Assault, 
Fire, 
Litter, and 
Paralyzed Teams.
• Command & Control Team – All HQs, Staff, and runner units 
• Vehicle -- Vehicles include helicopters and tracked, half-
tracked, and wheeled vehicles. (See 7.).
Volume of Fire (VOF) – See Basic VOF and Special VOF.
1.2.7. Common Abbreviations
 
Volume of Fire Abbreviations
S – Small Arms Fire
A – Automatic Weapons Fire
H – Heavy Weapons Fire
G! – Grenade/Rocket Launcher Fire
S! – Sniper Fire
 
Range Abbreviations
P – Point Blank Range (Same Card)
C – Close Range (Adjacent Card)
L – Long Range (2nd Card)
V – Very Long Range (3rd Card)
 
Common Abbreviations
FM – Fire Mission(s)
FO – Forward Observer 
FPF – Final Protective Fire
FPL – Final Protective Line
HQ – Headquarters
LAT – Limited Action Team
LOA – Limit of Advance
LOD – Line of Departure
LOS – Line of Sight
LZ – Landing Zone
MLR – Main Line of Resistance
MTR – Mortar
NCM – Net Combat Modifier
NET – Network (Phone or Radio)
PDF – Primary Direction of Fire
PL – Phase Line
PLT – Platoon
RCL – Recoilless Rifle
RGT – Regiment
RKT – Rocket Launcher
SGT – Sergeant
SQD – Squad
TM – Team
VOF – Volume of Fire
XO – Executive Officer
 
Common Abbreviations CONTD 
AP – Attack Position
BDE – Brigade
BN – Battalion
CAS – Close Air Support
CO – Company
FAC – Forward Air Controller
Player

tion is that you will know the layout of the battlefield in advance. 
When laying out the grid, leave a little room between the rows so 
that if you turn up a hill card and have to draw an additional Terrain 
Card for that space, you can stagger their placement so that the hill 
card does not obscure the one underneath. Also, allow some space 
between cards so that you can place markers between them as the 
need arises. Keep the deck handy, as the map may expand over the 
course of the mission and you will have to generate new terrain.
2.2.2. Place Visibility, Current Activity and Potential 
Contact Markers
 
Consult the Mission Details for the visibility level and use the
appropriate marker to indicate it. Set the Current Activity level by
selecting the No Contact marker; by definition, every mission will
start with No Contact as the Current Activity Marker. Place them
near the top of the map, or anywhere they will serve you efficiently
as reminders. Place Potential Contact Markers according to the
Mission Instructions (see 9.1.2 for more on Potential Contact Markers). 
2.3. Organize Your Company 
2.3.1. Fill Out the Mission Log
All of the information that you need to fill out the Mission Log
before start of play can be found in either the Campaign Instruc-
tions or the Mission Information. Note the Experience Level and
ammunition for all available units and record information about
available fire support.
2.3.2. Distribute Assets 
The Campaign Instructions may specify how some assets must be
assigned. Apart from that, you will have leeway in assigning assets
to Platoon HQs, Company HQ, Company Staff or other units as you 
see fit. For HQ and Staff place assets as desired among the appro-
priate holding boxes on the Command Display for convenience, 
else stack the asset with the unit that will carry it. 
2.3.3. Note Attached Assets and Pyrotechnic Signals 
on the Mission Log
In addition to your three infantry Platoons and your command Staff,
you will also have at your disposal a variety of other units, includ-
ing weapons teams, vehicles, off map mortar and artillery forward 
observers (FO). Before the mission starts, you will have to map the
command relationship for each on the Mission Log.
On the Mission Log, note how you have decided to assign units giv-
en to your Company in the Campaign Instructions but not assigned 
to a particular HQ. Units that are assigned to you in the Mission 
Instructions automatically have an Experience Level of Line. They 
do not gain experience over the course of a campaign, unlike units 
listed in the Campaign Instructions as part of your Company. A unit 
attached to a Platoon is considered part of that Platoon for all pur-
poses for the duration of the mission. A unit may not be reassigned 
to a different HQ or Company Staff during the course of a mission.
You should also assign particular instructions to your Pyrotechnic
signals, as the whole point of using such signals is that everyone
understands in advance what they will mean when they are used on
the battlefield. For more on using Pyrotechnics for command and
control, see 4.3.6.
2.4. Determine Tactical Reference Points
Before you begin a mission, you receive from higher up the chain 
of command strict geographical limits within which your Com-
pany can operate. Within that area, you will also have to point out 
specific objectives for your own reference. These controls exist to 
coordinate maneuver and fire support, and also to prevent friendly 
fire. Commanders draw these controls on their tactical maps; they 
are represented here by Tactical Control Markers.
2.4.1 Place Tactical Control Markers
There are two types of tactical controls in Fields of Fire. Linear 
controls follow the seams between rows or columns of Terrain 
Cards. Point controls are placed on a card and are specific to that 
Many tactical controls are unique to certain types of missions. Con-
sult the Mission Details to determine the type of mission and where 
and how to place the appropriate Tactical Control Markers (TCM).
A. Offensive Mission Controls 
Offensive Missions use the following linear controls: Right and 
Left Boundaries, Line of Departure (LOD), Phase Lines (PL), 
and Limit of Advance (LOA). 
The Line of Departure represents the official starting line for an 
attack. It runs horizontally across the map. Unless the Mission 
Instructions specify otherwise, place it between the Staging Area 
and Row 1. 
Phase Lines are used to coordinate advancing units. You can 
place up to two PLs, and they must run horizontally across the 
map. You can use them to key Actions with Pyrotechnic signals. 
The Left and Right Boundaries prevent adjacent companies from 
wandering across your front, and you from wandering across 
their front. Place these vertically, along the left-most and right-
most columns of Terrain Cards. You may not move your units 
across these boundaries, although enemy units may be placed 
outside them when Random Contacts are resolved, and they may 
move outside those boundaries during the Enemy Activity Check 
Segment. In such cases, your units may fire across a boundary 
line, but may not move across it. 
The Limit of Advance marks the line beyond which you may not 
advance during this mission. Place it horizontally, along the top-
most row of Terrain Cards. As with the Left and Right Boundar-
ies, enemy units may enter play and move beyond the LOA; your 
units may fire across it but never move across it. 
In short, the linear controls form a box outside of which your 
units may not move during a mission, although enemy units may 
appear, move and fire at your from beyond those boundaries.
Offensive Missions use the following point controls: 
• Attack Position (AP), 
• Primary Objective (OBJ 1) and 
• Secondary Objective (OBJ 2). 
 
The Objectives represent physical locations that you must 
occupy. The Attack Position is your last covered and 
concealed position before you reach an objective. Place them 
according to the Mission Instructions. 
 A tip: It is best to designate an AP that is adjacent to 
both Objectives, and if possible you should place the 
Objective TCMs on cards with high Cover & Conceal-
ment ratings so that you can defend them relatively 
easily once you occupy them.
B. Defensive Mission Controls 
Defensive Missions use only one linear control: the Main Line 
of Resistance (MLR). This represents the line before which the 
enemy advance must be stopped. In a Defensive Mission, you 
may set up your units between the Staging Area and the Main 
Line of Resistance. The Mission Instructions will tell you where 
to place the MLR. 
Defensive Missions may also allow you to place a Combat Out-
post (COP) point control. A Combat Outpost is a position set up 
in front of your MLR in order to confuse and break up an enemy 

attack. You may place units from a single Platoon up to the stack-
ing limit in a COP. You may also have two other point controls 
available to you: Final Protective Lines (FPL) and Final Protec-
tive Fires (FPF); these are prepared defensive fire schemes, and 
they are covered in detail in the combat rules (6.4.2 and 6.7.2, 
respectively).
C. Combat Patrol Controls 
Combat Patrol Missions use one linear control: the Main Line of 
Resistance, which marks the point from which the patrol sets out 
from friendly lines. 
Otherwise, Combat Patrol Missions use point controls. Use the 
Primary Objective (OBJ 1) to mark the farthest point from the 
MLR that the patrol is supposed to reach. You will also have to 
designate Route Points to mark out the path that the patrol must 
follow. This route may cross or come back on itself, so it is pos-
sible for a single Terrain Card to have more than one Route Point 
marker on it. You can also create Rally Points during the course 
of the patrol (or pre-designate them during planning) and tie them 
to Pyrotechnic signals. 
D. General Purpose Controls 
Several different point controls may be available to you if cir-
cumstances warrant, regardless of mission type. Some of them 
must be placed before play starts, or they may be placed as the 
mission is in progress. These are: 
• Landing Zones (LZ; see 7.3.2.), 
• Casualty Collection Points and MEDEVAC LZs 
 (see 5.1.7.), and 
• Registered Targets (see 6.7.5.).
 
2.4.2. Staging Areas
A Staging Area is a designated assembly area in which units prepare 
for an upcoming mission. In Fields of Fire, the Main Staging Area 
is represented by a row of face-down Terrain Cards, and Helicopter 
Staging Areas may be represented by a single face-down Terrain 
Card. In game terms, Staging Areas function as an off-map holding 
boxes from which your units enter the map.
Units in a Staging Area may not fire and they cannot be fired upon. 
Staging Area cards have no stacking limits. 
A. The Main Staging Area 
Units enter and exit the map to and from a Main Staging Area 
by normal movement. Units may move between cards in a Main 
Staging Area as if they were moving between Terrain Cards and 
are not marked Exposed. 
A Line of Sight exists for communication purposes between all 
cards in the Main Staging Area. This means that within the Main 
Staging Area, you may automatically use all radios that require 
an LOS between units. All cards in the Staging Area are con-
nected by phone lines. Telephones used within the Main Staging 
Area do not need to be connected by wire. 
B. Helicopter Staging Areas 
Some missions in the Vietnam campaign require two Staging Areas 
for helicopters, the Pickup Zone Staging Area and the Enroute 
Staging Area. Do not treat these as being adjacent to the map, like 
the Main Staging Area. Therefore, units may not use normal move-
ment to enter the map from a Helicopter Staging Area. 
No Line of Sight may be traced into or out of a Helicopter Stag-
ing Area.
 
2.4.3 Air Assault Planning
Some of the Vietnam campaign missions begin with an Air Assault, 
in which your units enter the map by helicopter. In these missions, 
the helicopters may have to make multiple trips to bring in all of 
your units. In such cases you must create a Landing Plan before 
play begins, in which you specify the order in which your units will 
be transported to the map (see 7.4.5). 
3. Sequence of Play
 
Once you have completed your planning and setup, you play out 
a mission in turns. Each turn is broken down into phases and Im-
pulses. Note that the sequence is different depending on whether the 
mission is an Offensive Mission, a Combat Patrol, or a Defensive 
Mission. (The first two types use the same sequence.)
3.1. Friendly Higher HQ Event Phase 
(Starting on Turn 2)
Starting on Turn 2, draw an Action Card. If the HQ icon is present, 
draw another Action Card and check the R# at the bottom against the 
Mission Instructions to determine what event takes place. For some 
events you get experience only if you accomplish the event that turn, 
but doing so is optional. You may choose to forego the experience if 
you feel you have more pressing matters. Any Commands required 
to be spent by an event must come from the CO HQ.
3.2. Defensive Missions: Enemy 
Activity Phase 
Note that both Enemy Activity Phases are identical. Where it occurs 
in the Sequence of Play just changes based on the type of mission.
3.2.1 Enemy Higher HQ Event Segment (Starting on Turn 2) 
 
This works the same way as the Friendly Higher HQ Event Phase, ex-
cept the enemy events are listed separately in the Mission Instructions.
3.2.2 Enemy Activity Check Segment
Except for turn 1, place PC Markers on cards or rows as indicated 
by the Mission Instructions. (You don’t need to do this on turn 1 
because PC Markers are placed during the setup.) Check every 
enemy unit on the map for activity, keeping in mind any restrictions 
imposed by the Higher HQ event. 
 
Randomly determine the order in which you check enemy occupied 
cards. On the selected card check enemy units in order based on 
their status as shown in the Activity Check Hierarchy tables, start-
ing at the top (9.4).
3.3. Friendly Command Phase
During this phase you have the units in the Company perform 
Actions, including movement and combat related activities. Units 
perform Actions when ordered to do so by expending a command. 
The sequence in which you activate units within the Command 
Phase flows down the chain of command from higher to lower, 
from Battalion to Company to Platoon. HQs are either activated by 
their Higher HQ or they take the initiative. HQs that are activated 
tend to have more commands than those taking the initiative. Draws 
for command points have modifiers based on the HQ’s Experience 
Level and situation where the HQ is located as explained in 4.1. If 
you activate a vehicle unit at any time during the phase, place an 
Activated marker on it as a reminder that it can be used during the 
Vehicle-Aircraft Phase.
3.3.1. Activation Segment
A. Battalion HQ (BN HQ) Impulse 
When the BN HQ is not on the map and the CO HQ is in com-
munication with the BN HQ, automatically activate the CO HQ. 
If the BN HQ is on the map, automatically give it the maximum 
number of allowable commands of 6 for a daytime mission or 4 
for a night mission. (The number track on the Command Display 
contains reminders of these limits.) Then expend the commands 
on any friendly units in play and in communication, including 

activating the CO HQ. You cannot save BN HQ commands. 
 
Note: The BN HQ is considered to be on the map if any 
higher HQ leader (Rgt/Bde Cmdr, Bn Cmdr, or the Bn 
XO/S-3) is on the map.
B. Company HQ (CO HQ) Impulse 
If activated by the BN HQ, draw an Action Card for the CO HQ 
and give it a number of commands this turn equal to the Activated 
Commands number (in the helmet) on the Action Card, as modi-
fied by the Command Draw Modifiers Chart (4.1.3). Then expend 
these commands for Actions as per the Action Menu (4.2.) on any 
friendly units in play and in communication and have those units 
execute the Actions. You may also save the commands up to the 
maximums by Experience Level and day or night. You may expend 
previously saved commands at this time, too. 
You may also activate a PLT HQ or CO Staff this Impulse if it is 
on the same card as a runner in Good Order that was dispatched 
on a previous turn. Return the runner to the CO HQ and mark it 
Exposed. You may dispatch the returned runner the same Impulse 
it returns. 
You do not need to finish spending commands from one PLT HQ 
unit before expending commands from another such unit.
C. Platoon HQ (PLT HQ) or Company Staff (CO Staff) Impulse 
Draw an Action Card for each PLT HQ or CO Staff activated 
in the preceding Impulse, in any order you choose, and give it 
a number of commands this turn equal to the modified (4.1.2.) 
Activated Commands number. Then expend these commands for 
Actions (4.2.) on any friendly units in play and in communica-
tion. You may expend a PLT HQ command only on a unit that 
belongs to or is attached to that HQ’s Platoon. You may also save 
the commands up to the maximums by Experience Level and day 
or night. You may expend previously saved commands at this 
time, too. 
You do not need to finish spending commands from one PLT HQ or 
CO Staff unit before expending commands from another such unit.
3.3.2. Initiative Segment
A. CO HQ Impulse (if not activated) 
If you did not activate the CO HQ in the preceding segment, 
draw an Action Card for it and give it a number of commands this 
turn equal to the modified (4.1.3.) Initiative Commands number 
(in the US Star symbol) on the Action Card. Expend commands 
(4.2.) or save them as in the command Impulses during the Acti-
vation Segment.
B. PLT HQ Impulse (if not activated) 
For each PLT HQ you did not activate in the preceding segment, 
draw an Action Card for it and give it a number of commands 
this turn equal to the modified (4.1.3.) Initiative Commands num-
ber. Expend commands (4.2.) or save them as in the command 
Impulses during the Activation Segment. You may expend a PLT 
HQ command only on a unit that belongs to or is attached to that 
HQ’s Platoon.
C. CO Staff Impulse (if not activated) 
Give one command to each CO Staff you did not activate in the 
preceding segment. Expend the command (4.2.) or save it as in 
the command Impulses during the Activation Segment.
D. General Initiative Impulse 
Draw an Action Card and expend a number of commands equal 
to the Initiative Commands number on any unit in play (4.2). You 
do not have to have an HQ or Staff unit issue these commands. If 
the mission is a Combat Patrol, halve that number, rounding any 
fractions down. Do not apply the normal Command Draw modi-
fiers to this draw.
 
3.4. Offensive Missions & Combat Patrols: 
Enemy Activity Phase
Follow the same sequence as Phase 3.2, except that you do not 
place new PC Markers each turn during the Activity Check Seg-
ment—use the ones placed during the setup for the whole mission. 
Implement any Enemy Higher HQ Event immediately. Do not 
perform any further activity checks this turn for units affected by 
those events.
3.5. Mutual (Friendly and Enemy)
Capture & Retreat Phase 
Consider any Paralyzed or Litter Team to be captured if the team is 
alone on a card (i.e., there are no other friendly forces on the card) 
with enemy Good Order units, or enemy Assault or Fire Teams. 
If a side does not take prisoners per the Campaign Instructions, 
automatically convert any captured units to casualties (their captors 
have shot them). Otherwise, any Step with a printed VOF may 
guard and transport any number of captured Steps. To transport a 
Step, move the guarding unit and have the prisoners automatically 
move with their guards. A captured unit is subject to VOF like any 
other unit, but ignores results other than Casualty and Pinned.
 
Retreat by one card any Paralyzed Team from either side that is on 
a card with a VOF Marker and not pinned or captured. The priority 
is to a card not under a VOF that has better cover (i.e., a Terrain 
Card where the net cover modifier is higher than that of the occu-
pied Card) and is towards the team’s edge of the map or LZ. Mark a 
retreating Paralyzed Team as Exposed.
3.6. Mutual (Friendly AND Enemy) Vehicle-
Aircraft Phase
You may move and/or fire any activated vehicles in play (7). If both 
sides have activated vehicles, alternate their move and fire, with the 
friendly player going first during an Offensive Mission or Combat 
Patrols and second during a Defensive Mission. Conduct all vehicle 
combat. Flip each unit’s Activated Marker to its Moved/Fired side 
when you finish that unit’s activation. 
3.7. Mutual (Friendly AND Enemy)
Combat Phase
Conduct all infantry combat in this phase (6.1). This is an abstrac-
tion of the cumulative Action that occurs throughout the time 
covered by the turn.
 
3.7.1. Volume of Fire (VOF) Segment
Use Volume of Fire (VOF), Primary Direction of Fire (PDF), 
Concentrate Fire, Grenade, Grenade Miss, and Crossfire Markers 
when determining the Net Combat Modifier. Adjust these markers 
as the situation changes on the map in either of the Enemy Activity 
Phases, the Command Phase, or the Combat Phase.
A. Update Fire Missions 
Remove existing Incoming! and Air Strike VOF Markers (6.7). 
Flip Pending Fire Mission Markers to their active sides. Adjust 
the Current Activity Marker as needed.
B. Evaluate Potential Contact Markers 
Resolve the Potential Contact for each Terrain Card containing 
both a Potential Contact Marker and a friendly unit by drawing a 
number of Action Cards based on type of PC Marker and the Cur-
rent Activity Level as shown on the Potential Contact Draw Chart 
(9.1.5). Contact is made if one of the Action Cards contains the 
word Contact! 
If contact is made, immediately change the state of the Current 
Activity Marker. If enemy units are contacted, use the mission’s 
appropriate Potential Contact Table to determine which enemy 
package is coming into play. Place the units in that package on the 
map according to the mission’s PC Placement Table and the rules 
for placement (9.2). Have any eligible friendly units automatically 

engage the new units by placing any applicable VOF and PDF 
Markers. Update the Mission Log to add the new enemy units. 
 
3.7.2. Combat Effects Segment
Any PINNED units not under any VOF remove their PINNED Mark-
ers. Per 6.9, determine the Net Combat Modifier (6.1.2.) for every 
infantry unit on a card with a VOF Marker and then draw an Action 
Card to determine if the fire has affected the unit (6.1.3). If the unit 
is hit, draw a second Action Card to determine the effect of the hit 
based on the unit’s Experience Level. Also resolve any Mine VOF 
attacks that have been triggered previously this turn (9.5). Once all 
combat is resolved, update any changes to VOF and PDF Markers 
(6.2. and 6.2.3.) from the results and flip any mines back to their 
“Draw” side (9.5). 
 3.8. Clean Up Phase
Remove Pyrotechnic, Illumination, Exposed, Moved/Fired, Con-
centrated Fire, Grenade, and Grenade Miss Markers. Casualties 
dropped off at a Terrain Card with a designated Casualty Collection 
Point Tactical Control Marker on it are evacuated in WWII and 
Korean War Missions. During Defensive Missions, remove any 
unresolved PC Markers.
4. Command & control
 
The core mechanic of Fields of Fire is that HQs obtain a number of 
Commands and use them for Actions to control themselves and oth-
er units. Generally, when a HQ is activated a card is drawn which 
determines the number of commands that HQ has for the turn. This 
represents the limited time, energy, and situational awareness of the 
HQ during the turn. Commands can be saved for use in later turns, 
with some limitations, which represents the HQ taking the time to 
create a plan of Action.
The act of exchanging Commands for Actions is called “orders”, 
“ordering” or “issuing an order”. Orders are an abstraction of the 
HQ actually giving a verbal or written command to effectively 
communicate the intent of the HQ. 
All units belong to a particular HQ at the beginning of a mission. 
HQs can only issue commands to subordinate units and HQs, and 
to itself. For example, a unit of the 1st Platoon receives orders from 
the 1st Platoon’s HQ. The 1st PLT HQ is subordinate to the CO HQ. 
The CO HQ is subordinate to the Battalion HQ. This means that a 
unit of the 1st Platoon can receive orders from the 1st PLT HQ, CO 
HQ, Battalion HQ or their Staffs, but it cannot receive orders from 
the 2nd PLT HQ. Limited Action Teams may receive orders from 
any HQ or Staff unit.
 
4.1. Commands
During the Friendly Command Phase HQs receive commands. The 
sequence in which you activate units flows down the chain of com-
mand from higher to lower, from Battalion to Company to Platoon. 
HQs are either activated by their Higher HQ or they take the initia-
tive. HQs that are activated by their Higher HQ tend to have more 
commands than those taking the initiative. All commands must be 
1. CO HQ is automati-
cally activated unless 
Higher HQ is in play. 
An Action Card is 
drawn and the number 
of commands is in the 
helmet/larger number 
in the upper left
2. 3rd PLT HQ is in the same card and not under a cover marker. The 
CO HQ expends 1 command to activate 3rd PLT HQ.
3. In the Activated Staff/PLT HQ segment, 3rd PLT HQ draws a single 
Action Card and receives the number of commands in the box on the 
upper left.
4. 3rd PLT HQ expends 1 command to order 1st squad/3rd Platoon to 
move.
5. The CO HQ could have ordered 1/3 directly but as a company has 9 
squads and weapons teams, it is inefficient for the CO HQ to do so. It 
is best to use the chain of command as much as possible.
6. The CO HQ is in communication with 2nd PLT HQ in the next card 
via SCR536 radio. Radios, phones, pyrotechnic signals and runners 
all work to extend the ability of an HQ to command units in other 
cards. A command is expended to activate 2nd PLT HQ.
7. 2nd PLT HQ then expends a command to order 2nd Squad/2nd Pla-
toon to do something. Note: The CO HQ is unable to command 2/2 
directly as the squad does not have a radio.
9. If neither PLT HQ was activated, it would draw for initiative and 
receive the number of commands indicated in the square/smaller 
number in the upper left of the Action Card.
Command Example

used/saved during their Impulse; a CO HQ command cannot be 
used during the PLT HQ Impulse.
 
4.1.1. Obtaining Commands
 
Battalion HQ Impulse
If the BN HQ is on the map, automatically give it the maximum 
number of allowable commands (6 for a daytime mission or 4 for a 
night mission). Then expend the commands on any friendly subor-
dinate units in play and in communication, including activating the 
CO HQ. You cannot save BN HQ commands. Note: The BN HQ 
is considered to be on the map if any higher HQ leader (Rgt/Bde 
Cmdr, Bn Cmdr, or the Bn XO/S-3) is on the map. 
 
CO HQ Impulse
When the BN HQ is not on the map and the CO HQ is in communi-
cation with the BN HQ, automatically activate the CO HQ. Draw an
action card. The number in the helmet icon is the number of avail-
able commands. This number may be modified by the conditions 
listed in 4.1.2. Expend the commands (plus any saved commands) 
on any friendly subordinate units in play and in communication, 
including activating the Platoon HQs or CO Staff. Company HQ 
commands may be saved. 
 
PLT HQ/CO Staff Impulse
Draw an Action Card for each activated Platoon HQ/CO Staff. The 
number in the helmet icon is the number of available commands. 
This number may be modified by the conditions in 4.1.3. Expend 
the commands (plus any saved commands) on any friendly subor-
dinate units in play and in communication. Platoon HQ/CO Staff 
commands may be saved. 
 
Initiative Segment
If not activated during the Activation Segment, the CO HQ, PLT 
HQ and CO Staff have an Impulse in the Initiative Segment. Draw 
an Action Card. The number in the star icon (beneath the helmet 
icon) is the number of available commands. This number may be 
modified by the conditions in 4.1.3. Expend the commands (plus 
any saved commands) on any friendly subordinate units in play and 
in communication. 
 
General Initiative Impulse
Draw an Action Card. The number in the star icon is the number
of available commands. If the mission is a Combat Patrol, halve
that number, rounding any fractions down. Do not apply the normal
Command Draw modifiers to this draw. You do not need an HQ or 
Staff unit issue these commands. Being in communication is
not required. Expend the commands on any units in play. 
4.1.2. Modifications to the Command Draw
When drawing for commands (whether in the Activation Segment 
or the Initiative Segment), modify the number on the Action Card 
as follows:
A. If the HQ or Staff is
• Pinned: -1
• Green: -1
• Veteran: +1
• Under a Cover Marker (including Fortifications): +1
B. If the HQ or Staff’s card has:
• A Volume of Fire of Small Arms (S): -1
• A Volume of Fire of Automatic Weapons (A): -2
• A Volume of Fire of Heavy Weapons (H), Sniper (S!), or 
Incoming: -3
C. The Current Activity is No Contact: +1 
An HQ activated by a higher HQ gets a minimum of one com-
mand regardless of the modifiers. When drawing for initiative, 
the modified total of commands may be zero. Do not modify the 
General Initiative Draw for Offensive and Defensive Missions. 
When performing a Combat Patrol Mission, halve the General 
Initiative Draw, rounding any fractions down, as only a portion of 
the Company is being used.
 
4.1.3. Command Limitations
During a daytime mission the maximum number of commands that 
any HQ or Staff can expend in one Impulse is 6. In any mission 
with Limited Visibility (i.e., the Visibility Modifier is greater than 
+1) the maximum is 4. 
HQs and Staff may save commands for later use based on their 
Experience Level, as follows:
• Green: 3 for Daytime and 2 for Limited Visibility
• Line: 6 for Daytime and 4 for Limited Visibility
• Veteran: 9 for Daytime and 6 for Limited Visibility
 
Track saved commands on the Command Display with the appro-
priate HQ’s Saved Commands Marker. Use an HQ’s Commands 
Allocated Marker to track commands expended during a given 
Impulse. Alternatively, you can just track these amounts on the 
Mission Log. 
There are some actions that ALWAYS require an HQ/Staff to be 
the originator even if attempted under General Initiative. These are: 
Exhort, Reconstituting the CO HQ or a Platoon HQ, Creating/Dis-
patching/Dismissing a Runner, Designating a New Tactical Control, 
Attempting to Reconstitute a Squad, and Firing an FPF or FPL
B. CO HQ Impulse 
Draw an Action Card. 
The card drawn lists 3/2 for commands, so the CO HQ receives 
3 commands because it is activated (it uses the left most number 
– inside the helmet illustration). Note that if the HQ had an ex-
perience level of “Green”, that “3” would be modified by -1, for 
a result of “2.” So we get a final result of “3.” The CO HQ uses 
two of these commands to activate the 1st PLT and 2nd PLT HQs 
and decides to save one command for a later turn. We update the 
Command Display by moving the CO HQ Saved Commands 
Marker to the “1” space.
4.1.4. HQ and Staff Fire Teams
An HQ or Staff unit on its Fire Team side may only issue com-
mands to itself. It cannot be activated by a higher HQ—it must 
draw for initiative. Any HQ converted to an Assault, Litter, or 
Paralyzed Team cannot issue commands until it is reconstituted. CO 
Staff cannot be reconstituted during a mission.
4.2. Actions
All possible Actions are broken into four classes for ease of refer-
ence only. Not all units can perform all Actions; the limitations are 
listed below and summarized on the Action Menu Player Aid Card. 
The Actions are listed by name, cost in commands, the type of 
command (automatic or an attempt), the originator (the unit whose 
command must be spent), the permissible recipient units, and the 
specific details. 
 
A unit may perform more than one Action in a given Impulse, but 
it may perform only one (1) Action of any named type in that Im-
pulse. For instance, a unit could be ordered to Repair a Cut Phone 
Line and Create a Runner in the same Impulse, but could not Create 
a Runner another time. 
 
An Action can either be automatic or require an attempt.
• Perform an automatic Action immediately after you spend the 
command. You do not need to draw an Action Card.
 

 
4.2.1. Command & Control Actions 
a. Activate a 
subordinate HQ 
or Staff
Any subordinate 
HQ or staff
Both the originator and the recipient must be on their 
command sides. (See 3.3.1.). BN HQ can only activate the 
CO HQ, the CO HQ can only activate PLT HQ and CO 
Staff, BN HQ or COStaff cannot activate PLT HQs.
b. Exhort
Any subordinate 
unit
You can declare this action once for any failed attempt. 
Draw one more card.
c. Deploy 
Pyrotechnic
unit with a 
pyrotechnic asset
Take the asset from the Command Display and flip it to 
its deployed side on the same card as the unit deploying 
it. If there is an action associated with that device on the 
Mission Log, then perform or attempt all triggered actions. 
(See 4.3.6. and 8.)
d. Reconstitute a 
Automatic CO HQ or 
CO Staff
unit from that 
platoon
Reduce the recipient by one Step and place the PLT HQ 
back into play on that card at a Green Experience Level.
e. Reconstitute the 
CO HQ
Automatic BN HQ or 
CO Staff
A CO Staff or 
You may reconstitute the CO HQ only from one of the 
following units in the following order of precedence if that 
unit is still in play and on its command side: CO XO, CO 
1stSgt, or any good order step from that platoon.
f. Create a Runner
unit, Assault 
Team, or Fire 
Team
Reduce the recipient by one Step and place a runner on the 
map where the recipient unit is located. You can have no 
more than two (2) runners in play at any given time. (See 
4.3.2.)
g. Dispatch a 
Runner
A good order 
runner unit
Move the runner to any PLT HQ or CO Staff unit on the 
map that you want to activate next turn. Mark the runner as 
Exposed. (See 4.3.2.)
h. Dismiss a 
Runner
A good order 
runner unit
Remove the Runner from play and add a Step to a good 
order unit that can absorb at least one Step and that is 
located on the same card as the runner and the CO HQ. 
(See 4.3.2.)
i. Activate a 
Vehicle or AT-
Capable Infantry 
Unit for the 
Vehicle Phase
Staff in the 
Chain of 
Command
An unpinned 
vehicle or AT-
capable infantry 
unit
Place an Activated Marker on the unit. You may move it or 
have it fire in the Vehicle Movement and Combat Phase. 
(See 7.2. and 7.5.)
j. Switch Radio 
/ Phone to a 
Different Network
A unit with a 
radio or phone
Replace the same kind of radio or phone with one that has 
been removed from play. For example, if the SCR300 BN 
TAC radio has been destroyed, you can switch the SCR300 
Arty FD net with the SCR300 BN TAC net. (See 4.3.4. and 
4.3.5.)
k. Repair a Cut 
Phone Line
Staff on the 
same card as 
the cut line
A good order unit 
on the same card 
as a Phone Line 
Marker on its Cut 
side
Flip the Phone Line Marker back to its normal side. (See 
4.3.4.)
l. Designate a New 
Tactical Control
The HQ itself
Place a new tactical control measure on the same card as 
the HQ that expends the command. (See 2.3.4.)

 
4.2.2. Movement Actions
a. Move to an 
marked as Exposed
Move the unit to an adjacent card and mark it as 
Exposed. If there is eligible cover on that card, you may 
place the unit under a Cover Marker. Do not mark a unit 
as Exposed if it moves from under a Trench, Bunker, or 
Pillbox Cover Marker on the first card to under one of 
those Cover Markers on the second card. (See 5.1.2.)
b. Move a 
Platoon to an 
Automatic PLT HQ
All good order units of 
that platoon on the same 
card that are not marked 
as Exposed
Have each unit in the platoon perform a Move to an 
Adjacent Card action. (See 5.1.)
Infiltrate an 
marked as Exposed, and 
that does not have an A 
& an arrow symbol or an 
H VOF rating
Either the origin card or the intended destination card 
must have a VOF Marker on it in order to purchase 
this Action. If that is the case, draw two (2 +/-) Action 
Cards and check for the Infiltrate icon. If it is present, 
then the attempt succeeds; move the unit to the adjacent 
card but do not mark it as Exposed. If there is eligible 
cover on that card, you may place the unit under a 
Cover Marker. If the attempt fails, perform a regular 
Move to an Adjacent Card action. (See 5.1.2.)
d. Attempt to 
have a Platoon 
Infiltrate an 
All good order units of 
that platoon on the same 
card that are not marked 
as Exposed and that 
do not have an A & an 
arrow symbol or an H 
VOF rating
Have each unit in the platoon perform an Attempt to 
Infiltrate an Adjacent Card action. (See 5.1.2.)
e. Attempt to 
Seek Cover
Cover # 
Cover text
not under a Cover 
Marker and the card has 
not exceeded its Cover 
Potential
Draw a number (+/-) of Action Cards equal to the 
Cover Draw number on the unit’s card and check for 
the text saying Cover. If it is present, then the attempt 
succeeds; place the unit under a new Cover Marker and 
mark it as Exposed. If the attempt fails, do nothing. 
(See 5.2.3.)
f. Move to or 
from Cover
Place the unit under a Cover Marker and mark it as 
Exposed. (You may move the unit from under one 
Cover Marker and place it under another in the same 
action.) (See 5.2.3.)
g. Attempt to 
Infiltrate to or 
from Cover
marked as Exposed
The unit’s card must have VOF marker on it to 
purchase this Action. If it does, draw two (2 +/-) Action 
Cards and check for the Infiltrate icon. If it is present, 
then the attempt succeeds; place the unit under a Cover 
Marker, but do not mark it as Exposed. (You may move 
the unit from under one Cover Marker and place it 
under another in the same action.) If the attempt fails, 
perform a regular Move to or from Cover action. (See 
5.2.3.)
Have the unit pick up items from the card or from 
a different unit, have a vehicle unit load or unload 
ammunition or casualties (see 5.1.3), or have an 
infantry unit embark on or disembark from a vehicle 
(see 7.4). 

 
4.2.3. Rally Actions
a. Attempt to 
Remove a Pinned 
Marker
Any unit under a 
Pinned Marker
succeeds; remove the Pinned Marker. If the 
b. Attempt 
to Convert a 
to a Litter Team
succeeds; replace the Paralyzed Team with a 
Litter Team. If the attempt fails, do nothing.
Convert a Litter 
Team to a Fire 
Team
Litter Team
succeeds; replace the Litter Team with a Fire 
Team. If the attempt fails, do nothing.
d. Attempt to 
Convert a Fire 
Team to an 
succeeds; replace the Fire Team with an Assault 
Team. If the attempt fails, do nothing.
e. Convert an 
Assault Team to a 
Replace the Assault Team with a Fire Team.
f. Attempt to Flip 
a Unit with a 
Fire Team Side to 
Front
itself, or any 
unpinned Fire 
Team with a 
Weapons Team, 
FO, or HQ on its 
front
succeeds; flip the unit to its front side. If the 
g. Detach Team
Any good order 3 
Step squad
Flip the squad to its 2 Step side and place your 
choice of either an Assault Team or Fire Team on 
the card.
h. Supplement 
Squad
Any good order 2 
Step squad and an 
unpinned Fire or 
Remove the Team and flip the squad to its 3 Step 
side.
i. Attempt to 
Reconstitute 
Squad
2 or 3 unpinned 
Assault or Fire 
Teams
succeeds; remove the 2 or 3 Teams and replace 
them with a 2 or 3 Step squad (respectively) that 
has previously been removed from play. If the 
j. Flip a Unit with 
a Fire Team Side 
to that Side
unit with a Fire 
Team side
Flip the unit to its Fire Team side.

 
4.2.4. Combat Actions
a. Attempt to 
Spot
Draw 2 for 
certain cases)
Draw two (2) Action Cards, modified by the modifiers on the 
Spotting Attempts Draw Modifiers Chart, and check for the 
Crosshairs icon. If it is present, then the attempt succeeds; remove 
any PC ? Marker. If the attempt fails, do nothing. (See 9.3.)
b. Attempt to 
Concentrate 
Fire
certain cases) with 
an S, A, A/S, or H 
VOF Rating
Draw two (2 +/-) Action Cards and check for the Crosshairs icon. 
(Draw an extra card when firing a tripod-mounted machinegun 
according to 6.4.) If it is present and the target unit is a) spotted, b) 
within the firing unit’s range and LOS, and c) along its PDF, then 
the attempt succeeds; place a Concentrated Fire Marker on the 
target unit. If the attempt fails, do nothing. (See 6.6.)
have a Platoon 
Concentrate 
Fire
units of that 
platoon with S, A, 
A/S, or H VOF 
Ratings on the 
same card
Draw two (2 +/-) Action Cards for each unit and check for the 
Crosshairs icon. If it is present and the target unit being is spotted, 
within the firing unit’s range and LOS, and along its PDF, then the 
attempt succeeds; place a Concentrated Fire Marker on the target 
unit. If the attempt fails, do nothing. (See 6.6.)
d. Attempt 
to Make a 
Attack
certain cases)
Draw two (2 +/-) Action Cards and check for the Grenade icon. If it 
is present, then the attempt succeeds; have the unit make a grenade 
attack. If successful against an unpinned enemy unit that has a VOF 
Rating on the same card, that enemy unit makes a free grenade 
attack in response. If the attempt fails, place a Grenade Miss VOF 
Marker on the card and adjust the Net Combat Modifier accordingly 
for all occupants of the card, both friendly and enemy. (See 6.5.)
e. Attempt 
to have a 
Platoon Make 
a Grenade 
Attack
units of that 
platoon on the 
same card
Have each unit in the platoon perform an Attempt to Make a 
Grenade Attack action. However, place no more than one Grenade 
Miss VOF marker on a card, no matter how many may miss. (See 
6.5.)
f. Attempt for 
a FO to Call 
for Fire
Draw 2 (+/-
) for Burst 
A good order FO 
unit on its observer 
side
Draw a number (+/-) of Action Cards per the Mission Instructions 
and check for the Burst icon. (Draw an extra card if the fire is pre-
registered according to 6.7.5.) If it is present and the Call for Fire 
prerequisites are met (6.7.1), then the attempt succeeds; expend an 
available fire mission on the Mission Log and place a Pending Fire 
Mission Marker on the target card. (See 6.7.)
g. Attempt to 
Call for Fire 
from an Off-
Map Firing 
Unit
Draw 2 (+/-
) for Burst 
itself
Draw a number (+/-) of Action Cards per the Mission Instructions 
and check for the Burst icon. (Draw an extra card if the fire is pre-
registered according to 6.7.5.) If it is present and the Call for Fire 
prerequisites are met (6.7.1), then the attempt succeeds; expend an 
available fire mission on the Mission Log and place a Pending Fire 
Mission Marker on the target card. (See 6.7.)
h. Call for 
Indirect Fire 
from an On-
Map Mortar
itself
Place the appropriate VOF Marker on any spotted enemy card in 
the originator’s LOS and in range of the firing mortar. See 6.7.4. for 
further restrictions.
All occupants of 
the card whether 
in communication 
with the issuing 
HQ or not
Remove any VOF/PDF generated by the occupants of the card. 
Note that units will open fire automatically on the closest unspotted 
enemy in their LOS if the enemy unit’s card does not have any 
friendly units. (See 6.1.)
All occupants of 
a card
Move the VOF/PDF in any desired direction, engaging any other 
card in the originator’s LOS, including an unoccupied card. (See 
6.1.)
k. Fire FPF/
FPL
units tasked with 
an FPF and/or FPL 
during a Defensive 
Mission
For a FPF, place a Pending Fire Mission Marker on the recipient 
unit’s card. For a FPL, place a Heavy Weapons VOF Marker along 
the LOS shown by the arrow on the FPL Marker. (See 6.1.)

 a. Move to an Adjacent Card
c. Attempt to Infiltrate an Adjacent Card
 
e. Convert an Assault Team to a Fire Team
h. Supplement Squad
i. Attempt to Reconstitute Squad
 b. Attempt to Concentrate Fire
d. Attempt to Make a Grenade Attack
Experience Level: Line
 
 
 Staging Area or is friendly occupied card and has no 
 VOF on it. Fire Teams cannot be used to scout ahead (or 	
 behind, for the Vietnam junkies among us!) into cards
 with PCs – or an other whiff of an enemy – on them.
c. Attempt to Infiltrate and Adjacent Card, but only if 
 friendly occupied 
d. Attempt to Convert a Fire Team to an Assault Team
h. Supplement Squad
i. Attempt to Reconstitute Squad
 a. Attempt to Spot 
b. Attempt to Concentrate Fire
d. Attempt to Make a Grenade Attack
Experience Level: Green
Litter Team
 
 	
 Staging Area or is friendly occupied card and has no 
 VOF on it 
 c. Attempt to Infiltrate and Adjacent Card, but only if 	
	
 friendly occupied
 c. Attempt to Convert a Litter Team to a Fire Team
 
	
Experience Level: Green
• For an attempted Action, you must first draw a number 
of Action Cards. For all Action attempts except Seeking 
Cover, the base draw is two (2) Action Cards. The number 
of cards drawn for Seeking Cover is listed on the Terrain 
Card itself. Modify the number of cards to draw based on 
the attempting unit’s Experience Level or, for Spotting, the 
Spotting Modifiers Chart. Whether an attempt succeeds or 
not depends on the Action being attempted (see the individual 
cases below). Remember, for any attempted Actions: the card 
draw is always modified by the experience of the unit that is 
attempting the Action, regardless who gave the order. 
The following notes apply to the tables below:
1. (+/-) Means to modify the cards for Experience Level. Add one 
card if the recipient is a Veteran unit or subtract one card if the 
recipient is a Green unit. Note that you use the Experience Level 
of the unit attempting the Action, not the Experience Level of the 
HQ or Staff expending the command.
2. By itself, “card” refers to a Terrain Card. Any reference to an Ac-
tion Card uses the full name.
3. When executing a Platoon Action, count the PLT HQ as a unit in 
the Platoon and draw cards for it.
 
The 2nd Platoon now draws a card to determine his commands. 
The card shows “3/2”. Because 2nd Platoon HQ is Green (-1 to 
commands), it receives 2 commands instead of the “3” shown on 
the card. As you’ll note from the Command Display, it also has 
two Saved commands that it will use this turn. The commands are 
spent as follows:
• Use two commands for a Platoon move to move the HQ 
and all the rest of the 2nd Platoon into the Woods in Row 1 
Column 3. Mark all the moving units with Exposed markers.
• Use 1 command to order 1/2 to move forward into the Gully 
in Row 2, Column 3. Place an Exposed marker on 1/2 as 
it moves. Leave the PDF on the card 1/2 is leaving (units 
remaining there will continue firing). Place a PDF from the 
Gully toward the Sniper as 1/2 will immediately open fire on 
the sniper from his new position.
• Use 1 command to order the machinegun weapons team to 
find cover. Draw 4 cards. One has the word “Cover” at the 
top, so place the weapons team under a “+1 Cover” marker.
 
4.2.5. Pinned and LAT limitations
Units that are not pinned and not LAT units are considered to be 
in “Good Order.” You may perform or attempt to perform only a 
limited set of Actions with Pinned and LAT units. These are also 
summarized on the LAT Limitations Chart. 
 
(This state takes precedence over any other LAT limitations 
 listed below.)
• Reduce its VOF to All Pinned
• Apply a +1 Net Combat Modifier (as listed on the Marker) 	
a. Move to an Adjacent Card, but only if that card is a Staging 	
 Area or is friendly occupied card and has no VOF on it
a. Attempt to Remove a Pinned Marker
 

Staging Area or is friendly occupied card and has no VOF 
on it
b. Attempt to Convert a Paralyzed Team to a Litter Team
 
	
Experience Level: Green
 4.3. Communication
To order a unit to perform an Action, the originator (the ordering 
HQ or Staff) must be able to communicate with the recipient unit.
4.3.1. Visual-Verbal
In order to be in Visual-Verbal communication, both units most be 
on the same card, be unpinned, and either 
a) both are under the same Cover Marker or 
b) neither one is under a Cover Marker. 
This is the basic method of communication and includes talking, 
shouting, and hand and arm signals.
4.3.2. Runners
Allows the CO HQ to activate its subordinate HQs and Staff the 
following turn (if the runner is not hit or pinned in the intervening 
Combat Phase). Runners are Created, Dispatched and Dismissed 
with the corresponding Actions ordered by the CO HQ. You can 
have two runners in play at any given time. When not in use, place 
them on the Command Display. They move automatically with the 
CO HQ.
4.3.3. Networks
To facilitate Command & Control, Radios and Field Telephones 
(RT) networks are established and maintained. You choose during 
your mission planning if you want to use phones or radios. RTs 
communicate only on assigned networks. Each phone and radio 
counter shows the network to which it belongs. You can have units 
exchange lost or destroyed RTs with RTs of the same type from a 
different network at the cost of one Command each. 
The organization of the RT networks depends on the purpose of the 
communication, as follows:
1) CO TAC (Company Tactical Network): 
This is used for tactical control of the Company, and allows the 
Company HQ to communicate with its Staff and Platoon leaders. 
The CO HQ’s RT is the hub of the CO TAC net. RTs used by PLT 
HQs, Staff and Weapons Teams must connect to the CO HQ’s RT 
to communicate on the CO TAC Net. FOs and regimental Staff 
may not communicate on this network. The Battalion Staff may 
use the CO TAC Net if located with the CO HQ.
2) BN TAC (Battalion Tactical Network): 
This is used for command and control of the Battalion, and it 
allows the Battalion HQ to communicate with its Staff and CO 
HQs. The CO HQ’s RT must connect to the Staging Area, if us-
ing phones, to communicate on the BN TAC Net. Only the CO 
HQ and the BN HQ (and the BN’s Staff) may communicate on 
this network.
3) ARTY FD (Artillery Fire Direction Network): 
This is used for control of artillery fire missions, and it allows the 
Arty FO to communicate with artillery units that are providing 
fire support to the Company. The Arty FO’s RT must connect to 
the Staging Area, if using phones, to communicate on the ARTY 
FD Net. Only the Arty FO may communicate on this network.
4) MTR FD (Mortar Fire Direction Network): 
This is used for control of mortar fire missions, and it allows the 
Mtr FO to communicate with off map mortar units that are provid-
ing fire support to the Company. The Mtr FO’s RT must connect to 
the Staging Area, if using phones, to communicate on the MTR FD 
Net. Only the Mtr FO may communicate on this network.
5) AIR CTL (Air Support Control Network): 
This is used for control of air support missions, and it allows an 
FAC to communicate with aircraft providing fire support to the 
Company. The FAC’s RT must connect to the Staging Area, if us-
ing phones, to communicate on the AIR CTL Net. Only the FAC 
may communicate on this network.
4.3.4. Field Telephones
You may have units with field telephones communicate with units 
on other cards or with units off map, or with units in different areas 
(cover) of the same card. Field phones on the CO TAC Net auto-
matically connect to the CO HQ’s phone, if calling from the same 
card with the CO HQ, or from a card adjacent to it. Field Phones on 
networks other than the CO TAC Net automatically connect to their 
respective off-map agencies, if calling from a card adjacent to the 
Staging Area.
Field telephones must connect via an unbroken string of Phone 
Line Markers when they are more than one card apart. As you 
move units, you may have them lay down one Phone Line Marker 
per card. This does not require an Action and occurs automatically 
when a laying unit leaves a card. To use its phone, a unit with a 
phone does not need a Phone Line Marker for the card it occupies, 
but it does need one for each intervening card between it and the 
CO HQ (for the CO TAC Net) or the Staging Area (for the other 
networks). You can have a unit lay a Phone Line only if the unit is 
carrying one. Note that there are only eight Phone Line counters 
available to the Company. Any number of phones and phone net-
works may be supported by a given Phone Line Marker. You must 
assign Phone Line Markers to units at the beginning of the Mission 
as you do with any other asset. 
During the Combat Effects Phase on Cards containing both Incom-
ing VOF and Phone Line Markers, there is a 1-in-2 chance of cut 
phone lines. To find out if a phone line is cut, select an Action Card, 
noting the result in the “2” column of the card’s Random Assign-
ment Area. If the result is a “1,” flip the Phone Line Marker to its 
cut side. You may not use that Phone Line for communication until 
the line is restored. You can restore a cut Phone Line in the follow-
ing Command Phase by performing an Action to do so. 
If a unit with a Phone becomes a casualty, there is a 1-in-2 chance 
that its Phone will be destroyed. Select an Action Card, noting the 
result in the “2” column of the card’s Random Assignment Area. 
If the result is a “1,” the Phone is destroyed; remove it from play. 
If the result is a “2,” place the Phone Marker on the map. You can 
have another unit pick it up and use it.
4.3.5. Radios
Radios allow communication to units in other cards, or between 
units in cover and those not in the same cover (with some excep-
tions). The Mission Instructions dictate the available types of 
radios. Put radios in the proper boxes of the Command Display. 
Radio technology determines the effectiveness of the radio and the 
following types are used in various eras: 
A. Early Handheld Radios (SCR536): 
Because of its limited broadcast strength, the SCR-536 allows 

phone network on map 1
phone network on map 2
phone network from staging area
The Radio in row 1, col 3 has LOS to 
the other three and can communicate 
as long as none are under cover or 
pinned.
Only row 1, col 1 and row 3, col 3 
have LOS and can communicate.
scr536 network
phone and radio examples

radio communication only within Line of Sight (as if Daylight, 
and ignoring smoke). The SCR-536 does not work from pinned 
status or from under a Cover Marker. 
B. Man pack, VHF -FM radios (SCR300, PRC25, PRC77, 
PRC119) and Vehicle Radios: 
These can communicate anywhere on the map with other radios 
in the same network, unless the Mission Instructions indicate 
otherwise. (Some campaign-specific terrain is more drastic and 
interferes with radio traffic.) 
C. Advanced Handheld Radios (ICOM, PRR, PRC148, PRC152): 
When these squad radios are in use, not only are the PLT HQs in 
communication with the CO HQ, the squads are in communica-
tion with their PLT HQ throughout the same and adjacent cards. 
If a unit with a radio becomes a casualty, there is a 1-in-2 chance 
that its radio will be destroyed. Select an Action Card, noting the 
result in the “2” column of the card’s Random Assignment Area. 
If the result is a “1,” the Radio is destroyed; remove it from play. 
If the result is a “2,” place the Radio Marker on the map. You can 
have another unit pick it up and use it.
4.3.6. Pyrotechnics
Pyrotechnic devices have three basic purposes: Signaling, Illumi-
nating, and Concealment. The Action of deploying a Pyrotechnic 
device is the same regardless of the purpose for which it is being 
used. Aerial rocket devices, such as colored flares and illumina-
tion, may be placed on the same or any adjacent card from the unit 
deploying them. 
 Pyrotechnics are linked to the following commands:
• Red Cluster, Parachute, or Smoke: CEASE FIRE
• Green Cluster, Parachute, or Smoke: 
ADVANCE (INFILTRATE IF POSSIBLE) TOWARD 
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE
• Yellow or Purple Smoke: SHIFT FIRE
Signaling devices are either colored smoke or colored flares. The 
campaign instructions assign Pyrotechnic devices to the Company. 
You then assign specific Actions from the Action Menu to each 
color and type of device, noting the relationship on the Mission 
Log. All units with a clear LOS to the signal will perform or at-
tempt to perform the particular Action when seeing the device. For 
example, you cannot have a Pyrotechnic indicate that units should 
just “Rally,” but you can have one indicate that units should under-
take a specific Rally Action such as an Attempt to Remove a Pinned 
Marker.
You can use a Pyrotechnic to initiate any Action as long as the unit 
with the device is ordered to Deploy a Pyrotechnic, only one Action 
is associated with the device, and the prerequisites for performing 
that associated Action are met (e.g., each unit has the necessary 
LOS to the device, is in the required state, etc.).
An indicated order can be conditional, but you can only issue one 
order at a time, and it can’t have alternatives. If possible, key the 
conditional order given to a geographic location or a tactical con-
trol. For instance, a valid conditional order could be “If adjacent to 
the Primary Objective, Attempt to Infiltrate the Objective Card.” 
A. Colored Flares 
Colored flares are visible from anywhere on the map regardless 
of LOS. There are four types of colored flares available for sig-
naling: Red Star Parachute (RSP), Green Star Parachute (GSP), 
Red Star Cluster (RSC), and Green Star Cluster (GSC). (While 
handheld illumination devices are in reality flares, they are not 
used for signaling but are used during night missions to mitigate 
the effects of darkness on combat—see 8.1).
Note
2nd Platoon HQ expends one command to Deploy a Pyrotechnic, 
firing the Red Star Cluster. This orders every unit on the map to 
Cease Fire
B. Smoke 
You can use either HC (High Concentrate) or WP (White Phos-
phorus) smoke to provide concealment. The campaign instruc-
tions list available smoke devices. HC smoke and WP smoke 
provide the defensive concealment printed on the marker and all 
units in a card with smoke cannot fire out of the card, but can fire 
within the card. Smoke appears at ground level and units must 
be able to trace a normal LOS to it in order for it to be used as a 
signal. Smoke blocks Line of Sight at all levels. 
 
WP smoke has a combat effect as well as a screening effect. 
You can deploy WP smoke like any other Pyrotechnic device or 
you can deploy it during an Attempt to Make a Grenade At-
tack Action. When part of a grenade attack, conduct the attempt 
normally, but place the deployed WP Marker in addition to any 
results of the grenade attack. WP Smoke may also appear as part 
of a fire mission for screening or as a prerequisite to an air strike 
(see Indirect Fire Missions).
5.0. infantry movement & terrain
 
5.1. Movement
You move your infantry units on the map in the Command Phase by 
using Commands to purchase order movement Actions (see 4.2.2.). 
Physically move each unit as soon as you purchase its Action. The 
two basic forms of movement for infantry are movement within a 
card and movement to another card.
5.1.1. Movement within a Card
Possible Movement Actions are e, f and g.
The rules for moving within a card are:
• Mark any unit that moves, unless it successfully infiltrates, 
with an Exposed Marker.
• You may not have a unit under a Cover Marker Attempt to 
Seek Cover.
• You may not move a unit that is marked with an Exposed 
Marker except you may have a unit marked with an Exposed 
Marker Attempt to Seek Cover or Move to or from Cover.
• If multiple Trench, Bunker, or Pillbox Markers exist in a 
given card, you may move units between them without having 
to mark them as Exposed.
• Pinned and LAT units may be limited – see 4.2.5.
5.1.2. Movement to Another Card
Movement is to an adjacent card, including diagonally. Possible 
Movement Actions are a, b, c and d.
The rules for moving to another card are:
• Mark any unit that moves, unless it successfully infiltrates, 
with an Exposed Marker.
• You may not move a unit that is marked with an Exposed 
Marker.
• When entering another card that has an unoccupied or 
friendly occupied Cover Marker, the moving unit may move 
directly under the Cover Marker.
• If Trench, Bunker, or Pillbox Markers exist in two adjacent 
cards, units may move between them without being marked 
as Exposed.
• Pinned and LAT units may be limited – see 4.2.5.

• Friendly units CANNOT move THROUGH a friendly line 
of fire. They can move INTO a card that is receiving friendly 
fire, but not through a card that is in the line of friendly fire. 
The same is true for the enemy, in that the enemy will not 
move THROUGH an ENEMY line of fire. As a corollary, 
if an enemy unit moves through a friendly line of fire – or 
vice-versa – the VOF that is being exerted along the PDF 
that is passing through that card will be retracted back and 
placed on the card with the moving unit. The only exception 
to this is if the firing unit is eligible for Grazing Fire (see 6.4 
Machineguns, first bullet Grazing Fire). 
5.1.3. Exposed Units
Moving in a combat environment entails a degree of risk which 
is represented by Exposed markers. All movement which is not a 
successful Infiltration will gain the moving unit an Exposed marker. 
A unit marked Exposed cannot move but may seek cover. A unit re-
mains Exposed until the marker is removed in the Clean Up Phase. 
There is a Staging Area of notional cards adjacent to the bot-
tom edge of the map in many missions. Do not mark the units as 
Exposed when moving between notional cards in the Staging Area. 
Thus, it is possible to move units between multiple notional cards 
in the Staging Area during a Command Phase as long as Commands 
are available to do so.
5.1.4. Infiltration
Infiltration is movement under enemy fire. Any Good Order unit (or 
LAT in certain cases) not marked as Exposed, and that does not have 
an A & an arrow symbol or an H VOF rating may attempt Infiltration. 
Either the origin card or the intended destination card must have a 
VOF Marker on it in order to purchase this Action. If so, draw two 
(2 +/-) Action Cards and check for the Infiltrate icon. If it is present, 
then the attempt succeeds; move the unit to the adjacent card but do 
not mark it as Exposed. If there is cover on that card, you may place 
the unit under a Cover Marker. If no Infiltrate icon the attempt fails 
and becomes a regular Move to an Adjacent Card Action (still costs 
two and an Exposed marker is placed on the unit[s]). Infiltration 
within a card must be under a VOF marker (see g)
5.1.5. Stacking
Stacking is having more than one unit on a card. You may have no 
more than 16 Steps and 4 vehicles on a card (see 1.2.1i). Steps on 
vehicles do not count. The number of Steps under a cover marker 
may affect combat (see 5.2.3.).
5.1.6. Transportation of Items and Units
Having a unit or a vehicle perform a Transport Action allows that 
unit to acquire or off load assets, casualties, prisoners, ammunition, 
or passengers. You can use this Action in three different situations: 
to have a unit pick up or drop off items, to have a unit embark on or 
disembark from a vehicle, or to have a vehicle load or unload items.
A. Transport Capacity 
A unit or vehicle can carry an unlimited number of assets. In 
addition to assets, a unit or vehicle may carry any one type of 
the following: casualties, prisoners, one type of ammunition or, 
for vehicles only, unit Steps. Each step of a unit has a transport 
capacity of 1. The transport capacity of a vehicle is listed on the 
Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart. 
 
When a unit becomes a casualty it loses its ability to carry any 
assets or loads and drops any it currently has on its card. 
When a unit that is transporting casualties or assets becomes 
Pinned or Paralyzed (neither can perform a Transport Action), it 
does not drop what it is carrying, but it will not be able to Trans-
port the casualties or assets any farther until rallied to a status 
that will allow it to do so. 
 
Each point of transport capacity can carry one of the following:
B. Picking up and Dropping off Loads 
A unit, whether it is marked Exposed or not, may pick up and 
drop off items up to its Transport Capacity. You must give a unit 
a Transport command to pick something up, but you can have 
a unit drop something off without a separate command. Mark 
any unit that picks something up as Exposed; you do not have to 
mark a unit as Exposed if it merely drops something off without 
otherwise exposing itself. If you want another unit to acquire and 
use what was dropped off, such as ammo, then you must order 
the second unit pick it up.
C. Embarking and Disembarking from Vehicles 
A vehicle, whether it is marked Exposed or not, may embark or 
disembark a unit up to the vehicle’s Transport Capacity as per 
7.4. You must give the vehicle a Transport command to embark 
a passenger (which happens in the Command Phase), but you 
can have a vehicle disembark a passenger (which happens in the 
Vehicle-Aircraft Phase) without a separate command. Mark both 
the vehicle and the unit involved in either an embarkation or 
disembarkation as Exposed.
D. Loading and Unloading Vehicles 
A unit, whether it is marked Exposed or not, may load items 
onto a vehicle or unload items from a vehicle up to the vehicle’s 
Transport Capacity. You must give the unit a command to load 
or unload. Mark both the vehicle and the unit involved in either a 
loading or unloading as Exposed.
 
5.1.7. Evacuating Casualties
You can gain experience in all campaigns and missions by success-
fully evacuating casualties from the map. If a casualty is transported 
and dropped off at the appropriate point, that casualty is considered 
to be evacuated by a notional ambulance or by helicopter; remove 
the casualty in the Clean Up Phase. Place any evacuated casualties 
in the appropriate holding box on the Command Display for ease of 
calculating experience earned and wounded returned to duty for the 
next mission.
For WWII and Korea missions, you must designate a Casualty 
Collection Point Tactical Control, either prior to the mission start or 
after the mission begins. 
For Vietnam missions, you can evacuate casualties one of two 
ways: either by helicopter from any LZ to the Pick Up Zone as per 
7.4.5., or by merely dropping off a casualty at the MEDEVAC LZ 
Tactical Control on a card containing an HQ or Staff unit (to direct 
operations). You can designate an LZ as the MEDEVAC LZ either 
before or after a mission begins, or switch it during a mission, but 
there can only be one in play at a time. You may use an LZ as both 
a regular LZ and the MEDEVAC LZ in the same turn.
5.2. Terrain
Each campaign will have a deck of terrain cards which will be used 
to build a game map. The Mission Details will tell how you many 
rows and columns of Terrain Cards you need to build the map. Col-
umns indicate the number of cards to lay vertically left to right; rows 
indicate the number of rows to lay horizontally away from you. 
Item		
	
Vehicle	 	
Infantry
Casualties	
	
	
Prisoners	
	
	
Unlimited
MG Ammo	
	
	
MTR Ammo	 	
	
RCL or RKT Ammo	
	
Infantry Unit Step	
	

The Mission Instructions also indicate whether to lay the Terrain 
Cards face up or down. This reflects the accuracy of the maps used 
historically. When placed face down, reveal the cards to the extent 
of the LOS of units actually on the map, not in the Staging Area. 
During play, reveal a hidden card when a friendly non-aircraft unit 
has an LOS to it. If the hidden card is a Hill, draw other cards until 
you get a non-Hill card.
 
5.2.1. Line of Sight (LOS) and Range
Line of Sight (LOS) is traced along the eight straight lines (only) 
from a card to the eight adjacent cards and beyond. (Thus, you may 
not trace a LOS left/right over two cards and up/down/diagonally 
one.) You may automatically trace a LOS into all adjacent cards. 
A LOS is blocked past another card if either border being traced 
through on that card is dark. Thus, the LOS must pass through light 
borders on both the entry and exit sides of a card to trace to a card 
beyond it. 
 
During normal visibility, the maximum LOS is three cards ( Very 
Long Range), not counting the starting card. During Limited 
Visibility the maximum LOS range is reduced to adjacent (Close 
Range). Being on higher elevation does not increase the observer’s 
range. See the LOS example on pages 35 & 36. Line of sight is 
reciprocal; every card your card can see can also see your card in 
return.
 
5.2.2. Elevation
Elevation is a relative measure in FoF. The base elevation is Level 
1 for all missions. Hills and Upper Stories add +1 to the base eleva-
tion. A single hill is Level 2. An Upper Story (see B) is at Level 2. 
An upper story on a hill is level 3.
Higher elevation allows units to trace a LOS over blocking terrain 
at lower levels. Higher elevations see over any lower elevations de-
spite intervening dark borders, i.e., units at Level 2 see over Level 
1 Terrain Cards. Same level terrain blocks LOS to any lower level 
terrain, i.e.a Level 2 terrain cannot see over another Level 2 Terrain 
Card to a Level 1 Terrain Card beyond it.
A. Hills 
Hill Cards raise the elevation by one level. They do not provide 
Cover & Concealment modifiers. On drawing a Hill Card, draw 
another card and place it on top of the hill to show the terrain on 
the hill. There can be multiple Hill Cards under a Terrain Card, 
each raising the elevation by 1 level. If a face down card is a 
hill, when that card is revealed draw another Terrain Card to go 
with it. There is no limit to the number of successive Hill Cards a 
player can deal, each raising elevation by one level, before deal-
ing a card containing specific terrain. Multiple hills do not change 
the ability to move in or out of a card, but only provide additional 
LOS benefits. The dark LOS borders on the Hill Card supersede 
any light borders on the non-Hill Terrain Card.
B. Multi-Story 
Terrain Cards marked with the words “Multi-Story” designate 
urban areas containing buildings taller than one level. A unit 
discovering a building (cover) on a Multi-Story Card can move to 
the building’s upper floors, increasing the unit’s elevation by one 
level. Place an Upper Story Cover Marker atop units that move to 
the upper floor of a multi-story building. When you find cover on 
a Multi-Story card you get both the Upper Story Cover Marker 
and a regular Cover Marker (see 5.2.3c), which represents the 
first floor. Consider these separate Cover Markers for purposes 
of commands, combat, and movement. Units can move between 
the two Cover Markers or directly to and from no cover and the 
Upper Story Cover Marker. 
 
A Church Tower Marker is the same as an Upper Story Cover 
Marker, but you may use it only on a Church Terrain Card.
 
5.2.3. Cover
Cover is a terrain feature below the detail found on standard tactical 
maps, and is often called “micro-terrain.”Cover provides protection 
from fire and is incremental to the Terrain Card’s basic Cover & 
Concealment value. Each Terrain Card indicates a maximum num-
ber of Cover Markers it can contain. A Cover Marker represents 
a distinct location within the area of the card. Once discovered, a 
Cover Marker remains in place for the rest of the Mission. Unless 
specified on the marker, there is no limit to the number of Steps 
that you can place under a given Cover Marker, but only units of 
one side can be under a given Cover Marker at any one time. (Note: 
Ignore any casualties under a Cover Marker when determining if 
the Cover Marker is occupied.)
However, putting too many troops under the same Cover Marker 
increases their vulnerability to indirect fire and grenades. For every 
Step above three that is under a Cover Marker, each unit attacked 
by a Grenade or Incoming VOF receives a -1 modifier. (Note: A 
captured Prisoner LAT counts as a unit for cover stacking.) For 
example, five Steps under a Cover Marker would all receive the 
benefit of the cover’s +1 modifier, but if attacked by Grenade VOF 
they would also receive a modifier of -2 because there are two Steps 
over the three-Step limit. The net modifier would be -1. 
If a Terrain Card has a VOF Marker on it, that card confers on its 
occupants its basic Cover & Concealment value as part of the Net 
Combat Modifier. Some cards have two Cover & Concealment 
values, separated by a slash with the higher value on the left. Use 
the higher value when the PDF crosses a dark border. (Notice that 
the borders are such that they cover the corners appropriately for 
diagonal PDFs.) Use the lower value for Grenade, Incoming, and 
Air Strike VOF Markers. If a card has a Burst icon (1.2.1h) on it, 
apply the value in that icon to any Incoming VOF. 
 
There are three types of Cover Markers:
A. Basic Cover 
This marker adds one to the Net Combat Modifier. It counts 
against the Terrain Card’s Cover Potential.
B. Field Fortifications 
The Mission Instructions list available field fortifications. They 
include Foxhole, Trench, Bunker, and Pillbox Markers. They 
do not count against a Terrain Card’s Cover Potential. Bunker 
and Pillbox Markers may hold a limited number of Steps; this 
number is in parentheses on those markers. In addition, they have 
a limited firing arc as depicted by the arrow on the marker. This 
arrow must point in the same direction as the Bunker or Pillbox 
Marker’s orientation. Orient a Pillbox or Bunker Marker for US 
forces (when available) as desired when placing them at the start 
of a mission. For enemy Pillboxes or Bunkers, point the arrow on 
the counter to the unit that made contact. You cannot change the 
orientation of the marker and units under (inside) the marker may 
fire only in the indicated direction.
C. Urban Cover 
Use these markers on cards with urban terrain cover symbol, 
such as Farm, Village, Multi-Story, and Church. These markers 
count against a Terrain Card’s Cover Potential. An Upper Story 
or a Church Tower Marker does not count against a card’s Cover 
Potential (it’s free). The result from the Urban Cover Probability 
Table lists for each campaign which of the various Cover Mark-
ers to use. Each campaign will indicate the chance of regular 
cover (representing rubble), light buildings, and strong buildings 
when cover is found on an urban Terrain Card. If a result is Light 
Building or Strong Building and the card contains a multi-story 
or church indicator, you get an Upper Story or Church Tower 
Marker (respectively) in addition to the indicated building marker 
(see 5.2.2b). 

 
6.0. infantry combat
The two basic components of Infantry Combat are Volume of Fire 
(VOF) and Primary Direction of Fire (PDF). These indicate how 
much and in what direction a unit is firing.
 
Infantry Combat is a two-part process. First, during the course of a 
game turn friendly and enemy units engage each other by placing 
Volume of Fire (VOF) and Primary Direction of Fire (PDF) mark-
ers. This may happen: 
• automatically by rule, 
• by a friendly unit being given an order or, 
• through an enemy activity check.
 
Second, during the Combat Effects Phase all engaged units resolve 
their respective combats.
 
The Basic Combat Principle. Infantry combat by units with Basic 
VOF capability is automatic. It does not require Commands or Ac-
tions. With each on-map activity all friendly units must be checked 
to see if they are eligible to open fire. If not already engaged, your 
units with a clear LOS and range to a spotted enemy unit will im-
mediately open fire. Any activity during the course of a turn may 
result in units engaging. This also applies equally to enemy units. 
Any unengaged enemy units will open fire on your friendly units as 
soon as your units become spotted in range of enemy Basic VOF.
The resolution of all this activity is consolidated in the Combat Ef-
fects Phase. Combat is directed at a card and all its occupants. 
 6.1. Engaging/Opening Fire 
In game terms, you have units “open fire” by placing on its target 
card a
1) Basic VOF Marker and a PDF Marker (if the target card is 	
 not the firing unit’s card), and/or 
2) Issuing an order for a special VOF, passing its attempt 
check and placing the Special VOF marker.
 
A non-engaged unit opens fire (becomes engaged) with its basic 
VOF when it has a spotted enemy unit within range and line of 
sight. This is automatic and mandatory. This may occur due to:
• Movement of the friendly unit, 
• Spotting reveals a previously unspotted enemy unit,
• Movement of the enemy unit (enemy activity checks), or 
• Because a new spotted unit has been placed on the map while 
resolving a potential contact. 
 
An Engaged unit will continue to fire at the same card until:
• Ordered to cease fire, 
• Ordered to shift fire,
• Ordered to move to another card,
• Smoke is placed on the firing unit’s card or along the PDF, or
• An enemy unit enters its card. 
 
An engaged unit will not stop firing merely because there are no 
more enemy units on the target card, or smoke appears on the target 
card (or along the PDF), or because a change in a unit’s status has 
reduced its range such that the target card is now beyond its range. 
However, smoke along the PDF will block fire through the card 
with the smoke (move the VOF from the target card to the card with 
the blocking smoke).
If multiple spotted enemy occupied cards come into view at the 
same time a unit engages according to the following priorities:
1) Closest card
2) The card with the highest VOF
3) Randomly
 
During the Friendly Command Phase units can be ordered to:
• Spot,
• Concentrate Fire,
• Make a grenade attack,
• Call for fire from on or off-board units,
• Shift fire or 
• Fire Final Protective Lines (FPL)/Final Protective Fire (FPF).
 
These may require an attempt check before any subsequent VOF 
marker is placed, modified or moved.
 
A unit does NOT automatically engage an enemy unit on a card in 
LOS that contains both friendly and enemy units. However, once 
units are engaged, they do not cease or shift fire without commands, 
even if the target card becomes jointly/friendly occupied.
If a unit enters a card where there is firing already going on (i.e., 
it is occupied by enemy units and friendly units OR has a PDF 
Marker on it), the entering unit joins in the existing fire. You may 
need to adjust the VOF marker, however.
 
6.1.3. Resolution
 
When you resolve combat, draw an Action Card for each unit on a 
target card with a VOF Marker. On the left side of the Action Card 
you will find the NCM(see 6.3) from -4 to +6 and the result of HIT, 
PIN or MISS (see 6.9.1). Find the NCM that applies to the unit to 
determine which result happens. If a unit is HIT, immediately draw 
another Action Card and in the lower center check the Hit Effects 
section under the target unit’s Experience Level (see 6.9.2). Apply 
all results immediately. All combat resolution is considered simulta-
neous, so do not change VOF and PDF Markers (if necessary) until 
combat resolution is complete.
 
6.2. Volume of Fire (VOF) and Primary 
Direction of Fire (PDF) Markers
VOF Markers indicate the amount of fire produced into a card. The 
primary principle of VOF is that the best VOF into a card applies, 
with a lower number being better than a higher number. The VOF 
Marker a firing unit generates is based on the firing unit’s VOF 
Rating. Basic VOF Markers apply to an entire card, while Special 
VOF Markers apply in various other ways. VOF Markers apply to 
all units on a card, even unspotted ones.
 
Place Basic VOF Markers on targeted cards based on the following 
procedure:
a. If units are firing into the card from a different card, then place 
one Basic VOF Marker in the upper left of the card, regardless 
of how many units or cards are involved. The VOF Marker will 
reflect the best (lowest) VOF Rating of all units firing. The VOF 
applies to all occupants of the card regardless of which side they 
are. Note: Until you become familiar with the VOF and PDF 
mechanics you may want to use a VOF for every firing unit being 
sure to place the best VOF on top.
b. If units from both sides occupy a card AND no other fire is com-
ing into the card, then place two VOF Markers: place the best 
friendly Basic VOF Marker in the upper left and the best enemy 
Basic VOF Marker in the lower left. 
Primary Direction of Fire (PDF) markers are a mnemonic device to 
show where a VOF originated. When a firing unit places a Basic 
VOF marker on any target card other than its card a PDF marker 
must also be placed.
 
6.2.1. Basic VOF
Basic VOF are the VOFs printed on the unit counters and which 
usually require no commands or attempts to implement. 

Small Arms (S) NCM value: +0
Automatic Weapons (A) NCM value: -1
Heavy Weapons (H) NCM value: -3
Assault Rifles (A/S)
 
Units with a VOF rating of A/S are equipped with assault rifles and 
generate an Automatic Weapons VOF Marker at Point Blank Range 
(same card) and a Small Arms VOF Marker at any other range.
 
G! Superscript
A Unit with a G! superscript is equipped with grenades or rocket 
launchers in addition to its base weapon. In addition to having it 
fire with its normal VOF Rating you can have it Attempt to Make a 
Grenade Attack at Close Range – See Special VOF.
 
All Pinned NCM modifier: +2 
Use this marker when all units firing into that card are Pinned. 
Overrides Basic S-A-H VOF.
 
Anti-Tank Note: Any VOF in a white circle is a modifier for AT 
Combat (see 7.6.) only. Also, some unit types are listed on the 
Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart as having different Gunnery 
modifiers at different ranges. Use the Gunnery modifiers from the 
Chart during AT Combat only.
 
6.2.2. Special VOF 
These VOFs are not automatic; they require commands and special 
procedures to be followed before a VOF may be placed. Note they 
do not create PDF markers but they may need to “follow” a PDF 
marker to be used. Some of these create a VOF marker while others 
serve to modify existing VOF markers. 
 
Grenade (G!) Net Combat Modifier (NCM) value: -4 or -3
A grenade attack applies only to a unit or group of units under a 
single Cover Marker. Place a Grenade Attack VOF Marker as a 
result of a successful Attempt to Make a Grenade Attack. A target 
can be attacked by multiple grenade VOFs and those are cumula-
tive. Do not apply the Rain/Snow, Fog, Smoke, or Current Visibility 
Modifiers to this VOF. Use the -4 modifier for US and German 
grenades and the -3 modifier for North Korean, Viet Cong, and 
NVA grenades.
 
Grenade Miss NCM modifier: -1
Place a Grenade Miss VOF Marker when an Attempt to Make a 
Grenade Attack fails. It applies to the entire card and is cumulative 
with the VOF for the card. Place only one Miss VOF regardless of 
the number of failed attempts. Apply all Visibility modifiers nor-
mally to a Grenade Miss.
 
Concentrated Fire NCM modifier: -1
Place a Concentrated Fire VOF Marker on a unit or group of units 
under a single Cover Marker as a result of a successful Attempt to 
Concentrate Fire Action. It is cumulative with the VOF for the card. 
A unit can be the target of multiple concentrated fires all of which 
are cumulative.
 
Sniper (S!) NCM value: -3 for target & (S) for the card
Snipers hit one unit in the target card with a -3 VOF. Place the rest 
of the card under a Small Arms VOF. This special VOF randomly 
targets one unit on the target card. If some units are marked as 
Exposed, select the target from those units only. For purposes of 
drawing for Commands, it affects all HQs in that card as if they 
are under a Heavy Weapons VOF. Sniper VOF Markers can exist 
simultaneously with other VOF Markers on the same card. Other 
VOF Markers on the card still affect units not targeted by the 
Sniper. Reselect the sniper’s target each Combat Phase while the 
sniper is in play.
 
Crossfire NCM modifier: -1
Place this VOF Marker on a card when there are two or more PDFs 
directed at a given card. It is cumulative with the other VOF Mark-
ers. Place no more than one Crossfire Marker on any given card. 
Pinned units can be used to generate a Crossfire.
 
Incoming! / Air Strike NCM value: -3 to -8
Place a Pending Fire or Air Mission Marker on a card after a suc-
cessful Call for Fire. Incoming and Air Strikes apply to the entire 
card. In the Combat Phase flip it to its Incoming! or Air Strike side. 
An Incoming or Air Strike Marker blocks LOS through the card. 
Remove it at the start of the following Combat Phase. Its NCM 
modifier varies depending on the unit that is firing. The -1 on the In-
coming! markers is the modifier to use when the target is a vehicle. 
 
The modifier to use when the target is a non-vehicle unit is printed 
on the Spotter unit. Also, if the target Terrain Card contains a Burst 
icon, apply any number in that icon as a modifier to Incoming fire, 
but not to Air Strikes. Do not apply the Rain/Snow, Fog, Smoke, or 
Current Visibility Modifiers to this VOF.
 
Mines NCM value -4
Mines are placed as a possible result of resolving a Potential Con-
tact marker. See 9.5 for details.
 
6.2.3. Primary Direction of Fire (PDF)
 
Place a PDF Marker when units on a card exert a VOF into another 
card. Place the marker on the edge of the firing card with the arrow 
pointing toward the target card. All units on a card only fire along 
the PDF. When there is a reciprocal PDF, flip the PDF Marker to its 
back showing two arrows to reduce clutter. 
 
A PDF does not limit the ability to try Spotting or Calls for Fire in 
other directions. PDF restrictions do not apply to FOs when Calling 
for Fire. In other words, they can call down fire in any direction, 
including Calling for Fire elsewhere when there are Enemy units on 
their own card (for example).
 
Units moving into a card that already has a PDF Marker immedi-
ately open fire along the PDF.
 
After placing a PDF, ALL units on the firing card continue to fire 
along the PDF until the VOF marker is removed.
 
Remember, you must place a VOF and PDF Marker when units 
with a printed VOF Rating have enemy units come within range 
and LOS. 
 
Units that have Ceased Fire, yet still have enemy units within range 
and LOS, automatically open fire on the closest enemy unit (forcing 
the placement of a new VOF and PDF Marker). 
 
Attempt to Concentrate Fire and Ranged Grenade Attack Actions 
may only be attempted along the PDF.
 
A VOF may change but the PDF stays the same. 
 	 Example: 
Your 2/2 PLT (A VOF at L range) is engaged in its 
right-front with an enemy unit two cards distant. 2/2 becomes 
a Fire Team as a result of enemy fire. 2/2’s VOF becomes S and 
its range drops to C. The PDF stays the same (right-front) but 
its VOF is moved to the adjacent card.
If a lone enemy unit with a friendly VOF Marker on its card moves 
to another card in LOS and along the same PDF, any friendly fire 

against that unit follows the unit to the new card.
 
A firing unit that loses its PDF because an enemy unit has entered 
its card switches its fire to the entering unit.
 
A US unit will not open fire through a card containing another US 
unit. However, a US unit with an existing PDF will continue to fire 
at a card even if another friendly unit moves into that card. 
 
 Example #1
A sniper moves away…
Note that the US PDFs and VOF into the card the sniper vacated 
are NOT removed. They remain until the US units either move 
or get a cease fire or shift fire order. Note also that the PINNED 
marker on the US 2/1 squad remains. It will be removed at the 
end of the VOF Segment as long as there is no enemy VOF on 
the Village card at that time.
 
Because the sniper has moved to a new card and currently has 
no PDF/VOF, we must now immediately check to see if there 
are any units in his LOS and range upon which he can open fire. 
In this case, there is only one such unit – the 1/2 squad in the 
Gully. So we place the sniper’s PDF facing toward the gully, 
and sniper VOF on the 1/2 unit, and a Small Arms VOF on the 
gully card.
 
 Example #2 from the Advanced Tutorial:
Units from the 1st Platoon have moved forward…
Because all the moved 1st Platoon units have the spotted 
German Sniper in their range and LOS, they immediately open 
fire on the Sniper’s card. We place PDFs from both cards, 
as well as an Automatic VOF on the Sniper’s card (it’s the 
best VOF of all the firing units) and a Crossfire marker on 
the sniper’s card as it now is the target of PDFs coming from 
different angles.
 Example #3 from the Advanced Tutorial:
…and the 5th command to order the 2/2 squad there to move 
forward into the Farm to its front. 2/2 is not currently firing, so 
we check to see if there are any targets in his range and LOS 
after he moves. The only possible target in his LOS is the enemy 
mortar spotter, and it is still Unspotted, so we place no PDF/
VOF for 2/2.
 Example #4 from the Advanced Tutorial:
Because 2/2 is within range and line of sight of the newly-
spotted Mortar spotter and is not currently firing, it now opens 
fire on the enemy spotter. We place a PDF from 2/2’s card 
facing the spotter’s card, and place a Small Arms VOF on the 
Hill/Farm card.
Example #5 from the Advanced Tutorial:
A lone enemy unit (sniper) moves away but still in LOS…
We extend the VOF of the US units in the R2C2 Hedgerow/
Bocage into the Sniper’s hex. This is the only case in which a 
US unit can “follow” a moving enemy unit – when the move 
extends within range and along the unit’s PDF. So we place an 
Automatic Weapons VOF on the Sniper’s new card. 
6.3. Combat Resolution
Calculate the Net Combat Modifier (NCM) for each unit during the 
Combat Phase to determine if it is affected by the fire. 
The formula is: 
NCM = The best (lowest) VOF modifier from S, A, H, G! 	 	
	
 Sniper or Incoming.
 + The net modifier due to visibility, illumination, 	
	
 and observation devices.
 + All applicable modifiers based on the defending 	 	
	
 unit’s status and cover.
	
+ All applicable other modifiers such as 
	
 Concentrated Fire, Crossfire, and Grenade miss.
In most cases not all the above factors are present and it is fairly 
easy to group units on a card by status (Pinned, under cover etc.). 
The NCM will be the same for units of the same status. Remember, 
some modifiers only apply to certain types of fire or under specific 
conditions.
The Minimum NCM is -4 and the Maximum is +6. A NCM of less 
than -4 is considered a -4 and a NCM greater than +6 is considered 
a +6.
When you resolve combat, draw an Action Card for each unit on 
a target card with a VOF Marker. On the left side of the Action 
Card you will find the NCM from -4 to +6 and the result of HIT, 
PIN or MISS (see 6.9.1). Find the NCM that applies to the unit to 
determine which result happens. If a unit is HIT, immediately draw 
another Action Card and in the lower center check the Hit Effects 
section under the target unit’s Experience Level (see 6.9.2). Apply 
all results immediately. All combat resolution is considered simulta-
neous, so do not change VOF and PDF Markers (if necessary) until 
all combat resolution is complete.
A mortar and a sniper is firing…
…we see that the lowest applicable modifier for this fire is 
the -3 NCM, generated by either the Incoming mortar fire or 
the sniper. It doesn’t matter which we use; the base combat 
NCM is still -3. This is modified as follows: 
 •	 +1 Terrain Modifier of card [Note that you use the 	
	
smaller number to the right for Incoming Fire on cards 	
	
that have split Intrinsic Defense Terrain Values.]
 •	
+1 Squad is under a cover marker
 •	
-2 Squad has an exposed marker
 So the final NCM is “-3.”
We draw an Action Card and -3 is a HIT.
6.4. Weapon Types and Restrictions
Weapon types and VOF are related, but there are some specifics 
that need to be addressed separately. See the Weapons Capability 
Chart for a summary of the abilities of the various weapon types.
Small Arms
Rifles, sub machineguns and magazine fed light machineguns 
produce a Small Arms (S) VOF. Some such units may instead pro-
duce an Automatic Weapons (A) VOF, but at Point Blank Range 
only. You do not keep track of small arms ammunition, but you do 
for the A VOF units (see MG Ammo in 6.8.1.).
Machineguns
These are belt-fed machineguns and are either bipod or tripod 
mounted. (An arrow symbol over the A indicates a tripod mount.) 
They produce an Automatic Weapons (A) VOF. Tripod-mounted 
machineguns have a greater range and are capable of Grazing 
Fire and Final Protective Lines (FPLs). You also get an extra 
draw when using them for an Attempt to Concentrate Fire Action 
because of their steadier aiming base and sustained fire capabil-
ity, but you may not have them use infiltration movement or fire 
at all if marked with an Exposed Marker. You must keep track of 
machinegun ammunition.
•	 Grazing Fire. Normally, when firing along a PDF into another 
card, the VOF is exerted into the closest enemy occupied card 
along the PDF and within LOS. However, tripod-mounted only 
machinegun units exert their VOF into multiple cards along its 
PDF and within LOS as long as all the cards are at the same 
elevation.
•	 Final Protective Lines (FPL) You can place an FPL Tactical 
Control on a tripod-mounted machinegun during a Defensive 
Mission. An FPL is exerted on a diagonal (only) as indicated by 
the arrow on the FPL Marker. Machineguns designated with an 
FPL control do not open fire automatically. They must be ordered 
to perform a Fire FPF/FPL Action by the CO HQ. Once they start 

firing they will continue until they run out of ammunition or they 
receive a Cease Fire command. An FPL generates a Heavy Weap-
ons VOF on all cards along the diagonal PDF, is not affected by 
Limited Visibility, and uses two ammunition points per turn.
•	 Overhead Fire Tripod-mounted machineguns and heavy weapons 
may fire over the heads of intervening friendly troops. Machineguns 
and other units with a heavy weapons VOF Rating can fire over a 
friendly unit that is at least one level lower than the firing unit. Do 
not place a VOF Marker on the card being fired over. For example, 
if a tripod mounted machinegun is on a hill at level 2 and a friendly 
unit is adjacent at level 1 and an enemy unit at long range is also on 
leve1 1 or 2, the machinegun can fire on the enemy unit and no VOF 
is placed on the friendly occupied card. That is, a tripod-mounted 
MG can fire from a level 1 card over a friendly unit on an adjacent 
level 1 card if the target is at a higher elevation. 
Mortar
Mortar fire can come from off map, from on map by a squad of two 
or three Mortar tubes working together, or from on map by a single 
tube team. You may never have them target their own card. You 
may not have them fire from under a building, Bunker, or Pillbox 
Cover Marker, or from +3 Jungle or Woods terrain card. You may 
not have them use infiltration movement or fire at all if marked with 
an Exposed Marker. You must keep track of mortar ammunition. 
Mortars have no restrictions on firing over the heads of friendly 
troops. This works in reverse, too.
Rocket Launcher / Recoilless Rifle
Light rocket launchers and recoilless rifles have a Grenade (G!) 
Volume of Fire. Heavy, tripod-mounted versions have a Heavy 
Weapons (H) Volume of Fire. No RKT or RCL may fire from a 
Building, Bunker or Pillbox. H VOF RKT/RCL may not fire when 
marked with an Exposed Marker. Panzerfausts (WWII German AT 
Rockets) may fire only at vehicles; all others may be used for both 
AT Combat and Infantry Combat. Some types of rocket launchers 
enter play as ammunition on regular units and are expended as 
such when used, e.g., Panzerfaust and B40/RPG2/7 rockets. You 
must keep track of rocket and recoilless ammunition.
Hand / Fragmentation Grenade
You may only use these on the same card. You do not keep track 
of hand grenade ammunition.
Rifle Grenades
Rifle Grenades have a Grenade (G!) Volume of Fire. Some units 
receive one allotment of Rifle grenades at the beginning of a 
mission with no further supply until the next mission. When used 
they are expended and they are not transferable among units. 
These weapons were high angle fire weapons, so as with mortars, 
you cannot fire them from under a building, Bunker, or Pillbox 
Cover Marker.
40mm Grenade Launchers (Vietnam and later)
Grenade Launchers have a Grenade (G!) Volume of Fire. You may 
have a US 40mm grenade launcher fire from under a building, Bun-
ker, or Pillbox Cover Marker because its trajectory is much flatter 
than that of a rifle grenade. Since the 40mm-grenade ammunition 
is small and light and the standard load is large, you do not have to 
keep track of it. Any unit from Vietnam or later that has a super-
script G! VOF is considered to have 40mm Grenade Launchers (see 
6.8).
Armored Fighting Vehicle / Tank
All medium and heavy tanks have a Heavy Weapons VOF, which is 
a combination of the vehicles’ machineguns and cannon. You must 
keep track of tank ammunition. When their ammunition runs out, 
remove them from the map.
6.5. Grenade Attacks
Direct a Grenade Attack toward a specific unit or Cover Marker. 
You may have any unit with a printed VOF Attempt to Make a Gre-
nade Attack against enemy units in the same card. You may have a 
unit with a G! VOF Rating and a printed Range Attempt to Make a 
Grenade Attack out to its printed Range. You may have a unit with 
a G! superscript above a different VOF Rating Attempt to Make a 
Grenade Attack at enemy units in an adjacent card.
Grenade Attacks are not automatic and you must perform an At-
tempt to Make a Grenade Attack Action. You have a base draw of 
two Action Cards, modified by Experience Level, when making the 
attempt. (For instance, draw only one card for Fire Teams because 
their Experience Level is Green.) The attempt is successful if the 
Grenade icon is present on one of the cards.
You can direct multiple Grenade Attacks toward the same unit or 
Cover Marker. Grenade VOF is cumulative with other Grenade 
Attacks, but not with other types of VOF. Remove any Grenade At-
tack Marker in the Clean up Phase.
When a Good Order unit, enemy or friendly, has a Grenade Attack 
attempted on it (whether successful or not) from the same card, it 
gets a free Attempt to Make a Grenade Attack at the unit that tried 
to attack it. 
If a Grenade Attack fails, place a Grenade Miss VOF Marker on the 
target card, if one is not already there. All occupants of the card suf-
fer the effects. Remove any Miss Marker in the Clean up Phase.
Example: if a Card with multiple units is under Automatic 
Weapons VOF (-1 modifier), and one unit suffers two Grenade 
Attacks, the unit suffers a -8 modifier, not a -9 modifier (Note 
after the NCM is calculated the lowest possible NCM is -4). 
The other units on the card receive the -1 modifier from 
Automatic Weapons VOF and -1 for the Grenade Miss for 
 a final NCM of -2..
A one-Step weapons team unit (one armed with a machinegun, 
rocket launcher, recoilless rifle, or similar weapon) that draws a 
card containing the word “Jam” when trying a Grenade Attack has 
experienced a serious weapons malfunction. Flip it to its Fire Team 
side for the balance of the mission. 
 
6.6. Concentrated Fire Attacks
Concentrated Fire represents VOF in addition to the Basic VOF 
against specific targets within LOS and along the PDF of the firing 
unit. It contributes -1 to the Net Combat Modifier. You may Attempt 
to Concentrate Fire with any Good Order unit with an S, A, A/S, or 
H VOF Rating on its counter against a target within range and LOS 
and along the PDF. The target may be a specific Cover Marker or 
a random, spotted, enemy unit. If LOS is subsequently lost due to 
smoke or incoming the Concentrate Fire marker remains in place. 
Draw two cards, modified for the firing unit’s Experience Level 
(and weapon-type if firing a tripod-mounted machinegun). The 
attempt is successful if the Crosshairs icon is present on one of the 
cards. If the attempt fails, do nothing special.
If the attempt succeeds, place a Concentrate Fire Marker on the 
target. If the target is a Cover Marker, the Action affects all units 
under the Cover Marker. Note that a Concentrate Fire Action is not 
a replacement for Basic VOF; you can have a single unit place both. 
Concentrate Fire Orders are cumulative.
If the firing unit tracks ammunition, it uses two ammunition points in-
stead of one. Remove Concentrate Fire Markers at the end of the turn.
A one-Step weapons team unit (one armed with a machinegun, 
rocket launcher, recoilless rifle, or similar weapon) that draws a 
card containing the word “Jam” when trying to Concentrate Fire 
has experienced a serious weapons malfunction. Flip it to its Fire 
Team side for the balance of the mission.
6 .7. Indirect Fire Missions
Fire missions are requests for support from artillery, mortars, and 
air strikes. The Mission Instructions list: 

a) the eligibility, type, and number of cards to draw, 
b) the number of available fire missions, and 
c) the names of the organizations providing the fire support. 
To make a Call for Fire Action, first make sure that certain prereq-
uisites are met, then select the type of fire mission you would like to 
make, and finally, resolve the attempt.
6.7.1. Call for Fire Prerequisites
Availability
You may only issue a Call for Fire against a card that has a spotted 
enemy unit on it. You cannot do so against a card with only unspotted 
units or a PC Marker. There must be an available mission. The # FMs 
column of the Fire Support Availability Table in the Mission Instruc-
tions indicates how many missions are available. Mark them on the 
Mission Log when expended.
Some Missions allow for CO HQs (and even PLT HQs) to Call for 
Fire. They are capable of doing this via the CO TAC Net or the BN 
TAC Net (in the CO HQ’s case). The number of card draws is based 
upon the actual observer. The card draws for HQs are lower to sig-
nify that the process is less efficient when not handled by an FO.
Eligibility
The Draws columns of the Fire Support Availability Table indicate 
which units you can use to perform a Call for Fire Action. You can 
use only those units to call for fire from the indicated source.
LOS
The eligible observer must have an LOS to the intended target.
Communication
The eligible observer must be in communication with the appropriate 
originator. Note that communication on a CO TAC Net and BN TAC 
Net allows for calls to be relayed without additional commands.
6.7.2. Available Fire Mission Types
A. High Explosive (HE) 
This is the most common type of fire mission, intended to cause 
enemy casualties.
B. Time-on-Target (TOT) 
This is a more complex fire mission where all rounds of the first 
volley hit the ground at the same time. It is effective, but it takes 
time and planning.
C. Smoke / White Phosphorous (WP) 
A smoke mission creates smoke for screening the movement of 
friendly forces or marking targets for air attacks. A WP mission is 
a combination of HE and smoke and so has both blast and screen-
ing effects, though neither of these is as effective as an individual 
smoke or HE mission. WP is most often used to mark targets for 
air attack.
D. Final Protective Fire 
Also called FPF, this is a pre-registered fire mission used during 
Defensive Missions. When called, the firing agency fires the 
mission at rapid-fire either until told to stop or until it runs out 
of ammo. The intent of these missions is to breakup an enemy 
assault. If FPF is listed as available for a mission, before the mis-
sion begins place an appropriate FPF Marker on any card within 
LOS of an observer and not occupied by friendly forces.
E. Illumination 
Parachute flares fired to provide illumination during night mis-
sions.
F. Air Strike 
For real world commanders, this mission is more complex than 
a standard Call for Fire, and is delivered from helicopters or 
fixed-wing aircraft. You must first have a mark before you can 
attempt an air strike. A mark is either colored smoke to mark the 
closest friendly position to the target or a WP fire mission on the 
intended target.
G. Battalion Fire Mission 
A variation of an HE or TOT mission is the Battalion fire mis-
sion, which is only available to artillery. If a drawn card contains 
the 3-Bursts icon and if the Mission Instructions say Battalion 
fire missions are available, then perform a Battalion fire mission. 
Choose two Terrain Cards bordering the original target card; 
place a Pending Fire Mission Marker on these cards, too. The 
cards do not have to be in the LOS of the observer.
6.7.3. Resolving an Attempt to Call for Fire
Draw a number of Action Cards, modified by Experience Level, 
as indicated on the mission instructions for the type of fire mission 
being performed. The attempt is successful if the Burst con is pres-
ent on one of the cards. If successful, place a Pending Fire Mission 
Marker on the target and expend an available fire mission on the 
Mission Log. If not successful, do not place any markers and do 
not expend an available fire mission. Flip all Pending Fire Mark-
ers to their Active (Burst icons) sides at the beginning of the VOF 
Segment.
One of the inherent dangers of indirect fire is a “short round.” The 
complexity of the procedure coupled with the stress of com-
bat means that from time-to-time a fire mission does not hit its 
intended target. If a drawn card contains the Burst icon with the 
word “Short” in it, then the fire mission has gone awry. If the firing 
agency was artillery or mortars, then place the Pending Fire Mis-
sion Marker one card closer to the observer along its LOS, unless 
the observer is calling in fire on his own position (the observer 
occupies the target card). In this case, randomly choose a border-
ing card and place the Pending Fire Mission Marker there. When a 
“Short” is drawn for an air strike mission, randomly choose a card 
bordering the mark and place the marker there.
6.7.4. On-Map Mortars
On-map mortars have two methods of lay, meaning how they 
engage targets. Direct Lay is when the mortar crew can observe the 
target. When they are used this way, they fire just like any other 
infantry unit. One-Step mortar teams may only use Direct Lay. A 
Call for Fire command can be issued to an on-map Mortar unit that 
is in communication with a unit on the proper TAC Net.
When firing Direct Lay - meaning that the Mortar is firing at a card 
to which it has LOS, whether the H-rated squad or the G!-rated 
team - that fire is treated exactly like any other Direct Fire (excep-
tion: mortars can ALWAYS fire over friendly units). Thus, it places 
a PDF, making it eligible to help qualify for Crossfire. Also, like 
any other Direct Fire, it is subject to the Terrain Effects dictated by 
the card borders that the fire crosses. 
Indirect Lay is when they employ indirect fire using an observer 
just like off map artillery and mortars. Only two- and three-Step 
mortar units (often called mortar sections or Platoons historically) 
may use Indirect Lay. Indirect Lay firing requires someone who is 
eligible to command the Mortar to spot for him and give him an 
order to call down fire. The mortar can either have his own radio 
or be co-located on a card with another unit that has a radio (that is 
considered “good enough”). There is no card draw; he automatical-
ly places the ‘H’ VOF. Note that the Mortar will NOT continue to 
do this every turn—it will need to be ordered every time you want 
it to fire Indirect. When using Indirect Lay, on map mortars do 
not have to trace a straight LOS to the target, but must be in range 
traced in cards including diagonally and not including the card the 
mortar occupies.
The mortar does NOT place a PDF, thus it does not help qualify 
a card for Crossfire. Also, it is treated the same as Incoming! in 
regard to terrain effects (i.e., it uses the ‘lower’ number and also the 

‘-1’ on some cards).
6.7.5. Registered Targets
The instructions for some missions indicate that you can begin 
the mission with a registered target for off-map artillery (but not 
mortars). If so, place a Target Marker on the card of your choice. 
You may also place a Target Marker on a card after a successful 
fire mission on that card from either off-map artillery or off-map 
mortars. You can have no more than one Target Marker in play per 
firing agency. Remove the Target Marker if the firing agency fires at 
a different target.
Add another card to the draw for an Attempt for a FO to Call for 
Fire (4.2.4f) or an Attempt to Call for Fire from an Off-Map Firing 
Unit (4.2.4g) for any fire by the registered firing agency on the card 
containing its Target Marker.
6.8. Ammunition 
Managing limited ammunition is a critical aspect of modern infan-
try combat. You must track ammunition expenditure for units that 
require it, both friendly and enemy, on the Mission Log. Whenever 
any of the following weapons fires indicate the expenditure of an 
ammo point on the Mission Log. 
Use Ammo Markers only when moving ammo around the map. 
Ammo Markers only depict the basic types; in some missions there 
are various specific calibers and you must note them on the Mission 
Log as different calibers are not interchangeable. The number on a 
marker indicates the number of ammo points it represents. 
 
6.8.1. Ammo Types
A. Machinegun Ammo (MG Ammo) 
Each point represents about 200 to 300 rounds of ammunition. 
Each Step of a unit can carry up to six points. Expend 1 ammo 
point each time you have an A VOF Rating unit fire. Expend 2 
points for a successful Attempt to Concentrate Fire Action. Ex-
pend 2 points each turn that an FPL is used. 
 
Note that in the WWII missions, some of the German squads 
contain machineguns. Similarly, in those Vietnam missions 
where the NVA appear, their squads also contain machineguns. 
You do need to track ammo for these units, and each such unit 
receives the amount of ammo listed for an LMG (Germans) or 
MG (NVA). When a squad runs out of MG Ammo, place an Out 
of Ammo Marker on it, reducing its ratings to those found on the 
marker. 
 
Note also that some units (like the Germans in WWII) start with 
more ammo than they can carry at one time. 
B. Mortar Ammo (MTR Ammo) 
Each point represents six to eight rounds. Each Step of a unit 
can carry up to two points. Expend 1 point each time you have a 
mortar fire, regardless of whether it hits or misses.
C. Recoilless Rifle Ammo (RCL Ammo) 
Each point represents two to three rounds. Each Step of a unit 
can carry up to three points. Expend 1 point each time you have a 
recoilless rifle unit fire, regardless of whether it hits or misses.
D. Rocket Ammo (RKT Ammo) 
Use this ammo for units armed with a Bazooka, RPG, or Panzer-
faust. Each point represents two to three rounds, and each Step 
of a unit can carry up to three points. Some squads have rocket 
launchers and specific counters are provided for that ammo 
(Panzerfaust and B40/RPG). Given the bulky size and weight of 
rocket ammo, you must track its use, and if a unit that uses this 
ammo runs out, it loses its Close Range G! capability. 
 
From Vietnam onward, US units have 40mm grenade launchers 
with a superscript-G! capability. Because the ammo for these weap-
ons is small, units carry a sizable number of rounds so they do not 
run out of ammo during a mission.
6.8.2. Out of Ammo Units
 
Running out of ammo occurs when the last ammo point is fired.
There are two ways out-of-ammo units are indicated:
1)	If a weapons unit (MG, mortar, rocket launcher, recoilless rifle, 
etc.) runs out of ammunition and is a one-Step unit and its Fire 
Team side has an S VOF, flip the unit to its Fire Team side. 
2)	If a weapons unit runs out of ammunition and has more than one 
Step or it’s a one-Step unit but its Fire Team side has something 
other than an S VOF, place an Out of Ammo Marker on the unit. 
Until the unit can pick up more ammo, it has an S VOF Rating 
and a Range Rating of Close, regardless of what is printed on its 
counter. 
 
A unit that has an Out of Ammo marker placed on it continues to 
fight with its new VOF rating and is not required to leave the map 
per 9.9. 
6.8.3. Resupply
Resupplying an out-of-ammo unit requires that the out-of-ammo 
unit be on the same card with available ammo. If no ammo is on the 
card the out-of-ammo unit must either move to an ammo supply or 
have another unit bring ammo to the out-of-ammo unit. Finally, an 
order must be given to the out-of-ammo unit. This allows the unit to 
obtain ammo from the card or the unit carrying the ammo.
 
A unit with an Out of Ammo marker must be given a Transport 
Order. The marker is removed and the Mission Log updated with 
the new ammo points. The unit may resume firing.
 
A unit flipped to its Fire Team must instead successfully Rally to its 
front side to be resupplied when ammo becomes available. Upon 
resupply update the Mission Log with the new ammo supply points 
and flip the Fire Team to its front side. The unit may resume firing.
6.9. Combat Effects
Resolve all infantry (non-vehicle) combat in the Combat Effects 
Phase. All such combat is considered simultaneous. You must re-
solve the effects of combat on each unit on a card containing a VOF 
Marker, and do so for each unit individually. 
 
For each unit, find out the Net Combat Modifier (NCM) according 
to the formula in 6.3. Once you have determined the NCM, draw an 
Action Card and find the NCM in the Fire Results section along the 
left side of the card. Next to the modifier, you will find its effect. 
 
There are three possible results: MISS, PIN, or HIT. If you draw a 
card with a HIT result, you must then resolve the effect of that HIT. 
Draw another card and refer to the Hit Effect section in the lower 
center of the card to find the effect on the target unit
 
6.9.1. Using the Fire Results Section
The first column of this section contains numbers between -4 and 
+6 depicting the NCM of the target unit .The second column shows 
the result of the Fire, either HIT, MISS or PIN, and applies to com-
bat against infantry units. The effects of these results are:
 
A. MISS 
No effect. If the unit is PINNED, remove the PINNED Marker.
 
B. PINNED 
Place a PINNED Marker on the unit. You may have a PINNED unit 
may perform only the following Actions:
• Rally Actions: Attempt to Remove a Pinned Marker
• Movement Actions: Attempt to Seek Cover or Move to an 

Adjacent Card but only if the card is friendly occupied and 
does not have a VOF Marker on it.
 
 A Pinned marker is removed when:
• A unit successfully passes an Attempt to Remove a Pinned 	 	
 Marker order,
• No enemy VOF are on the card at the beginning of the Combat 	
 Effects Segment, or
• The unit is eliminated.
A PINNED unit may generate an All-Pinned VOF. If all units firing 
into a card are pinned place an All Pinned VOF on the targeted 
C. HIT 
Place a PINNED Marker on the unit. In addition, draw another 
card to discover the effect of the hit.
6.9.2 Using the Hit Effects Section
The Hit Effect section of the Action Card is grouped according to the 
Experience Level of the unit. Under each level of experience is one 
or two letters. Check the column corresponding to the Experience 
Level of the unit that receives a hit. Each letter shows the Limited 
Action Team to which one Step of the unit converts. If a unit has only 
one Step, and the result is two letters, use only the first letter. 
 
The Hit Effect resolution combines the physical and morale effects 
of the fire on the unit, so any Step converts through the effect of 
combat into any of the Limited Action Teams. For example, a Para-
lyzed Team could convert to a Litter Team, which is an improve-
ment in its state.
 
The possible effects are:
C = Casualty 
Convert the Step to a casualty unit. Casualties last the duration 
of the mission and cannot rally. You cannot move them or have 
them fight. You should have other units evacuate them as soon as 
possible. Do not resolve combat against casualties.
P = Paralyzed Team 
Convert the Step to a Paralyzed Team. Remove the original unit 
from play.
L = Litter Team 
Convert the Step to a Litter Team. Remove the original unit from 
play.
combat example
hit
pin
miss
Infantry Combat occurs after all the command 
segments, enemy activity checks, potential contact 
resolution and volume of fire adjustments.
Here the only Volume of Fire (VOF) in Play is the Small 
Arms Fire on the Village card. A VOF applies to ALL 
units in the card. Here it is only the 1st squad 3rd 
platoon.
HIT
A HIT would PIN the unit and another card is drawn 
to see the effect.
PIN
A PIN places a PINNED marker on the unit.
MISS
A MISS is no effect AND if PINNED< the PINNED 
marker is removed 
Here are three cards to show the three possible results. - HIT, PIN, MISS
Here The Hit Effect is by experience of 
the unit, in this case Line. The letter 
indicates a Step is changed into a Fire 
Team Limited Action Team (LAT)
The Modifiers are totaled.
1. The Cover & Concealment for the Card (+2)
2. The VOF (+0)
3. Any unit level markers (exposed, pinned, cover, concentrated fore) (-2)
4. Any card level markers (crossfire, grenade miss) (none)
 net is 0
An Action Card is drawn and the infantry Combat section reference 
by the net modifier.

F = Fire Team 
Convert the Step to a Fire Team. If the unit has a Fire Team on 
the reverse side, flip it to its Fire Team side. Otherwise, remove 
the unit and replace it with a generic Fire Team marker of the 
appropriate nationality. Some nationalities have different Fire 
Teams with different VOF ratings. When a unit converts to a Fire 
Team, it cannot have a more powerful VOF Rating than its nor-
mal capability. (A lower VOF modifier as listed in 6.3.1. makes a 
VOF Rating more powerful.)
A = Assault Team 
If a unit does not have a Fire Team side on its reverse, convert the 
Step to a generic Assault Team. Remove the original unit from 
play. If a unit does have a Fire Team side on its reverse, flip the 
unit to its Fire Team side. If it is already on its Fire Team side, 
leave it there. 
 
Under the results for A = Assault Team, the restriction on not 
converting a unit to an Assault Team if it has a Fire Team on its 
reverse side does not apply to a generic Fire Team whose reverse 
side contains another Fire Team with a different weapon type. 
Convert such a Fire Team to an Assault Team when it receives an 
A result. 
 Example from the Advanced Tutorial: 
Hit Result (Line) = PP… 
To implement the Combat Effects, we remove the 3/1 Squad 
marker and replace it with two Paralyzed Steps (for the PP result) 
and one Fire Team step. We then place Pinned markers on all. 
 
If you convert all but one Step of a unit, automatically convert the 
final Step to a Fire Team. Squads with an A VOF rating have 
a machinegun that will always be manned, but as teams split 
off, the last one will have an A VOF rating. See the illustration 
depicting the breakdown of various squads into Fire Teams with 
the appropriate VOF ratings. 
 
In the WWII missions, when breaking down a German squad, 
randomly determine which choice of the two breakdown alterna-
tives they use. Optionally, draw an R10, and on a result of 1 
to 7 use the top alternative (the one with the two MGs) and on 
a result of 8 to 10 use the bottom alternative. If using the top 
alternative, you must split any remaining ammo between the two 
MG units. 
 7. Vehicles
While the focus of this game is on infantry, in the 20th Century 
a wide variety of vehicles were used to support infantry. There are 
two basic classes of vehicles in Fields of Fire: ground vehicles and 
helicopters. You move a ground vehicle from card to card. You 
place a helicopter indicating whether it is landing or flying low. You 
move all vehicles and perform combat against them in the Vehicle 
Movement and Combat Phase. Movement and combat occur over 
the course of the phase, so movement may be interrupted by combat 
but continue afterwards. If allowed by the Vehicle and Anti-Tank 
Weapons Chart, you may be able to both move and perform combat 
with a vehicle. The Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart (on 
the back of the Briefings Booklet) lists all the relevant data for all 
vehicles. For the sake of simplicity, all combat against a vehicle is 
referred to as Anti-Tank (AT) Combat.
 7.1. Commands
7.1.1. General
Vehicles, like infantry units, are organized into Platoons and 
companies with a functioning chain of command. Ground-based 
vehicles are in Platoons, but helicopter units form flights. A Vehicle 
Platoon has a Platoon Headquarters (PLT HQ) and a Helicopter 
Flight has a Flight Leader (FLT LDR). Vehicle PLT HQs and FLT 
LDRs can only activate vehicles in their same Platoon or flight. 
 
Unlike an infantry PLT HQ, these units may command their Platoon 
or flight and still function as a combat or transport unit because a 
vehicle has enough crew members to perform more than one task.
 
All vehicles in a Platoon or flight have their own radio net. The PLT 
HQ or FLT LDR is always in communication with all members of 
its Platoon or flight. They also communicate on the Company Tacti-
cal Net in Vietnam or later missions OR on the Battalion Tactical 
Net in WWII or Korean War missions. During the Command Phase, 
you may have the CO HQ activate a vehicle PLT HQ or FLT LDR, 
just as it would activate any other PLT HQ or Staff. If not activated 
by the Company HQ, draw for the HQ in the Platoon HQ Initiative 
Impulse. You may have it save Command Points just like any other 
HQ or Staff unit. You may have only the Company HQ or an indi-
vidual vehicle’s PLT HQ or FLT LDR activate individual vehicles 
that belong to its Platoon or flight unless you attached the vehicle 
to a particular Platoon before the beginning of the mission. You 
may also activate any vehicle that belongs to a Platoon or flight by 
General Initiative. You may never attach a helicopter to an infantry 
PLT HQ.
 
Some vehicles, such as trucks and jeeps, have limited crews and/
or no radios and are not indicated in the Mission Instructions as 
being part of a vehicle Platoon. Jeeps and similar small vehicles 
have no crew. Whatever unit is embarked on it is considered the 
driver. Trucks come with a small crew but do not normally have 
radios. They must be given a command to move individually. You 
can activate a truck for movement using any HQ or Staff unit or by 
General Initiative.
 
There are some anti-tank or anti-aircraft guns that are considered 
vehicles for all purposes except they may not move during the 
course of a mission. These are indicated on the Vehicle and Anti-
Tank Weapons Chart under the Mobile column. Certain aircraft, 
such as Attack Helicopters, Forward Air Controller (FAC) Aircraft, 
and Fixed Wing Gunships (AC47), are treated as special cases.
7.1.2. Attack Helicopters
 
You call for an Attack Helicopter in the same manner as a Close 
Air Support Mission. If the call is successful, you have activated 
the Attack Helicopter. Place it directly on a card whenever you 
wish during the Vehicle Movement and Combat Phase. You do not 
“fly” it from card to card, and so it is only vulnerable to reaction 
AT Combat on the card on which you place it. However, check for 
reaction AT Combat against the aircraft when you place it.
 
If undamaged, you may have the two-aircraft section attack the 
target card and any one neighboring card (if desired) with its VOF. 
If only one aircraft is undamaged, you may have it attack the target 
card only. “Short” fire also applies to Attack Helicopter missions, 
though only the new target card receives attacks.
 
An Attack Helicopter may loiter for an additional turn (a total of 
two turns). If you want the helicopter to attack a different target 
the second turn, you must go through the call procedure again. 
Otherwise, an Attack Helicopter automatically performs a second 
attack on its original targets, suffering potential reaction AT Combat 
as before.
 
7.1.3. Forward Air Controller Aircraft
You may automatically activate a FAC Aircraft, and may have it 
loiter for an additional four turns (a total of five turns.) Each turn 
you may have it perform one Attempt to Call for Fire from an Off-
Map Firing Unit Action (but only if it’s Air Support from a fixed 
wing aircraft or an attack helicopter) and you may have it mark 
the target with a WP Marker. The range of the WP Rocket is Close 

Range. Place the FAC on a card of your choice during the Vehicle 
Movement and Combat Phase. You do not “fly” it from card to 
card, and so it is only vulnerable to reaction AT Combat on the card 
on which you place it. In the Vietnam missions, Attack Helicopters 
and Airborne FACs are only vulnerable to Small Arms, Automatic 
Weapons, and 12.7mm HMG.
7.1.4. Fixed Wing Gunships
During Vietnam missions, gunships fly at higher altitudes and are
not vulnerable to AT Combat. They only fly during night missions.
Like the FAC, you automatically activate an AC47 by placing it
anywhere on the map during the Vehicle Movement and Combat
Phase. You can move it to any card each subsequent turn and can
have it loiter for the entire mission once available. Once placed, it
can place 3 Heavy Weapons VOF and place 3 air-dropped illumina-
tion markers in any combination of 3 cards that it occupies or are 
adjacent to it. It does not require ongoing Call for Fire Action 
7.2. Activating Vehicles 
In contrast to Infantry, you may activate a vehicle only once during 
a turn. Activate a vehicle during the Command Segment, and place 
an Activated Marker on it at that time as a reminder. Though acti-
vated during the Command Segment, do not perform a vehicle 
Action with the unit until the Vehicle Movement and Combat 
Phase. You may move or initiate combat only with activated vehi-
cles. You may have a non-activated vehicle perform combat only in 
reaction to the fire and movement of other vehicles. Move and fire 
each activated vehicle one at a time until its activation is complete. 
If both enemy and friendly vehicles activate, alternate Actions with 
the attacking side going first. Flip a unit’s Activation Marker to its 
Moved/Fired side when you have finished its Action, and remove 
all the markers in the Clean Up Phase. 
 7.3. Movement 
 
7.3.1. Ground Movement
 
You may move a ground vehicle from one card to another for an un- 
limited number of cards. However, you must stop moving it when it 
enters a “SLOW” trafficability card and you may not have it enter 
a “NO” trafficability card (see 1.2.1b). You may not move a vehicle 
after it fires, but you may move a vehicle before firing if there is a 
number in its Move & Fire column on the Vehicle and Anti-Tank 
Weapons Chart on the Player Aid Card. (See also 7.5c.)
7.3.2. Air Movement
When a helicopter enters play, place it on the card of your choice; 
you do not move it from card to card. It is only vulnerable to AT 
Combat on the card on which it is placed. Do not apply the +1 
modifier for being a moving target to a helicopter.
A helicopter that has a Transport Capacity on the Vehicle and Anti-
Tank Weapons Chart is a transport helicopter. Consider transport 
movement as landing and taking off. A transport helicopter is avail-
able for:
• an assault landing,
• bringing in supplies or reinforcements, or
• evacuating casualties.
 
You must activate a transport helicopter to place it on the map. 
You may place a transport helicopter only on a card with a Land-
ing Zone point control, which can only be on a card labeled “LZ” 
(Landing Zone). In order to land a transport helicopter after the 
initial movement onto the map, another unit must first mark the 
designated LZ with a Pyrotechnic. 
Attack helicopters are those without a Transport Capacity.. Con-
sider attack helicopter movement as making an attack run. Attack 
helicopters are available on-call as air support missions and are 
placed on the target card.
7.4. Transport
The parenthesized value on the vehicle counter indicates the num-
ber of Steps it may carry. It may also transport items equal to the 
maximum allowable for that number of Steps (see 5.1.3).
7.4.1. Embarking
 
To embark an infantry unit (per 1.2.3. that is any non-vehicle unit) 
or casualties onto a vehicle, have the vehicle perform a Transport 
Action during the Command Phase. Place an Exposed Marker on 
the vehicle if it does not already have one. Place embarked infantry 
units beneath the vehicle counter. You may move the vehicle nor-
mally in the Vehicle Phase. Units may start a mission embarked on 
vehicles by placing them beneath vehicle units at the beginning of 
the mission.
7.4.2. Disembarking
Passengers
You can have a vehicle disembark its passengers during the Vehicle 
Phase, either before or after the vehicle moves. You do not need to 
issue a specific order for disembarkation. Place an Exposed Marker 
on any passenger that disembarks and on the vehicle. 
Equipment
To disembark equipment or ammo from a vehicle, have the vehicle 
perform a Transport Action during the Command Phase. Place 
an Exposed Marker on any vehicle unit that performs a Transport 
Action if it does not already have one. You may move the vehicle 
normally in the Vehicle Phase.
7.4.3. Riding in Jeeps or Trucks
Jeeps have no crew, and an embarked unit serves as the operator. 
Jeeps and trucks are open vehicles. An embarked infantry unit may 
fire or be fired upon like any other infantry unit in the Combat Ef-
fects Segment. It may also suffer the adverse effects of AT Combat 
as a passenger in a targeted vehicle. If a vehicle moves, then any 
passengers it is carrying are exposed and the passengers derive no 
cover from the vehicle while embarked.
7.4.4. Riding on Tanks
 
Units, casualties, and ammunition may ride on tanks when neces-
sary. A tank may carry a number of Steps equal to its transport 
capacity on the Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart. A tank car-
rying any casualties or passengers may not engage in combat until 
the passengers have disembarked or have been unloaded (casual-
ties or ammunition). Any unit riding on a tank that is the target of 
an Anti-Tank attack, the result of which is Brewed Up, Knocked 
Out, or Pinned, results in a HIT to any Infantry unit it is carrying. 
Resolve the hit’s effect immediately. Immediately disembark the 
affected passengers and place an Exposed Marker on them, which 
is applicable in the subsequent Combat Effects Phase. Passengers 
may be engaged like any other infantry unit in the Combat Effects 
Phase, but have no VOF of their own while embarked. If the vehicle 
moves, then the passengers are exposed, as the passengers derive no 
cover from the vehicle while embarked.
7.4.5. Helicopter Assault
The non-linear (no front line) characteristic of guerilla warfare and 
the advent of the helicopter as a weapon technology ushered in a 
new form of military operation during the Vietnam War. This is the 
Helicopter Assault. A Helicopter Assault is the transport of troops 
into a combat situation (a Landing Zone [LZ]) via helicopter trans-
port. Air Assault Planning, Staging Areas and Landing Zones make 
up Helicopter Assaults.
 

Apply the rules for Vehicle Commands and Helicopter Movement 
to Helicopter Assaults.
 
Landing Zones (LZ)
A Landing Zone (LZ) is an on-map area of one, two or three cards. 
The scenario will designate a starting LZ configuration. LZs may 
only be placed on terrain cards with the helicopter icon. When set-
ting up the map make sure the LZ cards are Open, Village, Brush, 
Elephant Grass or Rice Paddy
 
In game terms the LZ becomes a nominal Staging Area. Unlike the 
normal off-map Staging Areas enemy units may occupy and fire 
into LZs. 
The LZ is designated during planning. Be sure to consider the num-
ber of helicopters planned for the first wave and that the LZ is large 
enough to accommodate those aircraft. LZ stacking is also four 
vehicles. Four helicopters may takeoff and four may land. 
 
Staging Areas.
Helicopter operations are governed by two off-map, notional, areas, 
one called the Pickup Zone Staging Area and the other called the 
Enroute Staging Area. Use two unused face-down Terrain Cards to 
represent these areas. 
 
A helicopter loads units and ammo in the Pickup Zone Staging Area 
in a turn and leaves that same turn for the Enroute Staging Area. 
The second turn it leaves the Enroute Staging Area and enters the 
LZ card on the map, where it can unload its passengers or ammo 
and pick up casualties. In the third turn it departs the LZ (after 
loading any troops, casualties or ammo) for the Enroute Staging 
Area. In fourth turn it arrives back at the Pickup Zone, where it 
can unload the casualties and load new passengers or ammo. Thus, 
a complete round trip from PU Zone to Enroute to Map LZ to 
Enroute to PU Zone takes four turns. You can have loaded helicop-
ters start a mission in the Enroute Staging Area so that landings can 
begin on turn 1 of a mission.
 
A loaded helicopter may loiter one turn in the on map LZ. If the 
transport helicopter cannot or does not land in its second turn it 
aborts to the Enroute Staging Area and then returns to the Pickup 
Zone Staging Area in the next subsequent turn.
 
Example: A planned landing on Turn 3 can be delayed until 
Turn 4. If the helicopter does not land on Turn 4 it must return to 
the Pickup Zone. On Turn 5 it returns to the Pickup Zone Stag-
ing Area. On Turn 6 it may begin the whole Helicopter Assault 
process anew.
 
The following rules also apply to Helicopter Assault Staging 
Areas:
 • Units in a Pickup Zone Staging Area or an Enroute Staging 	
 Area cannot fire or be fired upon.
 • Units without helicopter transport cannot move from the 
 map to either of the helicopter Staging Areas (or vice 
 versa), or between those two Staging Areas.
 • Amy unit leaving the map must land in the Pickup Zone. 	 	
 Any unit leaving the Pickup Zone must land on the map 
 LZ or return/abort to the Pickup Zone.
 • There are no capacity limits in any Pickup Zone Staging 	 	
 Area or Enroute Staging Area.
 • A helicopter must be in one of the helicopter Staging Areas 	
 or on the map.
 • A Line of Sight exists for communication purposes between 	
 all the cards in the main Staging Area. This means that you 	 	
 can use radios that require an LOS between units in that 	
	
 Staging Area. Wire is not required for telephones in the 
main Staging Area. 
• There is no LOS from anywhere to the helicopter Staging 
Areas.
 
Air Assault Planning
A helicopter assault is a complex operation and requires careful 
planning. This is usually done during Task Organization (2.3) so 
the first wave lands on turn 1. Scenarios with mid-game air assaults 
will allow for a planning phase in the turn before the air assault 
arrives.
An Air Assault plan should include the following:
• Designate a Landing Zone as described before. LZs may span 
up to three adjacent cards. Consider the number of helicopters 
in the first wave and be sure the LZ is large enough to 
accommodate those aircraft.
• Load/embark the units for the first wave. You can transport 
the Company with only a certain number of helicopters. There 
is usually not enough room on them to transport all the troops 
of the Company to the LZ at the same time. You’ll need to 
split some Squads into Assault or Fire Teams, leaving unit 
Steps in the Staging Area. 
• Have UH1 Troop Transports land and disembark troops to 
secure the LZ. Landing aircraft are vulnerable to Reaction AT 
Combat if the LZ is within range of an enemy unit.
• Place the first wave units on the Enroute Staging Area if you 
intend to land on the first turn.
• Use CH-47 Heavy Lift helicopters to bring heavier elements 
or the remainder of the Company.
 
You don’t need to land assault waves one after another, and you can 
build in delays in the Landing Plan. In certain situations, there may 
not be enough Command Points available to move all helicopters to 
and from the LZ. In other cases, you might feel the LZ is too “hot” 
to bring in the helicopters safely. In addition, the assault plan must 
take into account the maximum capacity of 4 vehicles per card (see 
1.2.1i). If the number of helicopters exceeds the LZ’s capacity at 
the end of the Vehicle Movement and Combat Phase, or if more he-
licopters try to land in the same turn than the LZ can accommodate, 
the excess aircraft immediately abort their landing. If helicopters 
land on a card containing a VOF marker, they receive fire prior to 
disembarking any passengers. Helicopters on LZ cards at the begin-
ning of the Vehicle Phase may take off so that other helicopters may 
land.
Example: Sample Landing Plan (This is optional; there is no 
obligation to use this):
1st Wave:
Three UH-1s (3-Step capacity each) Total of 9-Steps – A full 
strength Platoon is 12-Steps. Each Squad leaves behind one-
Step (if they have the Step to leave).
Stick 1 – 1st PLT HQ [1], 1/1st PLT (-) [2] = 3 Steps
Stick 2 – Wpns / 1st PLT [1], 2/1st PLT (-) [2] = 3 Steps
Stick 3 – Wpns / 1st PLT [1], 3/1st PLT (-) [2] = 3 Steps
 
Designers Note: Troops assigned to an aircraft are called 
“sticks” or “chalks.”
 
In the Command Phase of the turn that the helicopters are due to 
enter the map, activate the first wave of helicopters to move to the 
LZ. Remember helicopters may begin the game loaded and located 
in the Enroute Staging Area
 
In the ensuing Vehicle Movement and Combat Phase, place the 
first wave on the LZ Card. Have UH1 Troop Transports land and 
disembark troops to secure the LZ. Landing aircraft are vulnerable 
to Reaction AT Combat if the LZ is within range of an enemy unit.
During the Command Phase of the following turn, the applicable 
HQ can order the second wave to move to the LZ as well as the first 
wave aircraft to leave the LZ. You can have several more UH1s 
land additional Company elements with the purpose of expanding 
the fire support capability of the LZ. In the ensuing Vehicle Move-
ment and Combat Phase, the first wave can depart while the second 
wave disembarks troops, provided there are enough Command 

Points to do so.
 
During Command Phases of following turns, you can activate ad-
ditional waves to move to the LZ. During ensuing Vehicle Move-
ment and Combat Phases, the preceding wave can depart while the 
current wave disembarks troops, provided there are sufficient Com-
mand Points to do so. Continue this pattern until the assault plan 
concludes. Then, organize the Company and have it proceed to the 
objective. Upon securing the objective, (during Vietnam, usually 
sweeping an area), you can extract the Company in reverse order 
via the same or a new, secure LZ.
7.5. Vehicle Activation and Actions
You may have a vehicle perform one (and only one) of the follow-
ing Actions during the Vehicle Movement and Combat Phase:
A. Fire
B. Move
C. Move then Fire
D. Reaction Fire, or
E. Spot
 
The Move & Fire column on the Vehicle and Ranged Weapons 
Chart indicates whether a unit can use a Move then Fire Action. An 
AT capable infantry unit activated during the Command Phase also 
fires during the Mutual Vehicle Aircraft Phase.
A. Fire 
Fire against vehicle and helicopter targets is called Anti-Tank 
(AT) Combat. A unit allowed to execute such fire is called an AT 
capable unit. The only time a unit can perform AT Combat is in 
the Mutual Vehicle-Aircraft Phase. 
 
A vehicle fire against another vehicle is resolved immediately. 
The target vehicle must be in the firing vehicle’s LOS. A vehicle 
fire against an infantry target (regardless if it is AT capable or 
is listed on the Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart) places a 
VOF marker which is resolved in the Combat Effects Segment. 
Flip the “Activated” marker to its “Moved/Fired” side.
 
Fire is the only Action available during the Mutual Vehicle 
Aircraft Phase to an AT capable infantry unit activated for AT 
Combat in the Command Phase.
 
If you have a unit fire, first resolve any VOF present on the card 
from which it fires, then resolve the unit’s AT Combat, and finally 
resolve any Reaction Fire from any AT capable unit that has an 
LOS.
 
Vehicles are attacked by VOFs whether they are moving INTO a 
card with a VOF, moving OUT of a card with a VOF, or staying 
put in a card with a VOF.
 
Note: A vehicle does NOT have to be activated to fire at 
infantry. The purpose of activation is to allow it to fire at 
vehicles and/or move in the Mutual Vehicle-Aircraft Phase. 
Moreover, a vehicle that has moved and/or fired in the Mutual 
Vehicle-Aircraft Phase can still fire at infantry in the Combat 
Effects segment (i.e., resolve its VOF). Infantry fired at by a 
Vehicle that earlier fired at another vehicle does not have to 
be in the same card as the targeted vehicle. However, in the 
Combat Effects segment the firing vehicle must fire along any 
already-established PDF. Pinned Vehicles generate All-Pinned 
VOFs just like Infantry units do. Additionally, when Pinned 
they may be activated, but are bound by the restrictions 
imposed on Pinned units in 4.2.5. 
on map lz
helicopter movement cycle
At start the 1st Wave is 
in the inbound box. In 
Command Phase it must 
be activated to conduct 
the landing in the 
Vehicle Phase of turn 1
inbound
outbound
off map pz
Exposed to Vehicle 
combat in the Vehicle 
Phase and Infantry 
Fire in Turn 1 
Combat Phase
Vehicle phase the 1st Wave 
lands in the LZ and the 
passengers dismount
turn 1
turn 2 
Helos, embark any 
casualties.
turn 2 
Vehicle Phase to Out 
Bound Area
turn 3 
Helos, embark any 
casualties.
turn 3 
Vehicle Phase to Out 
Bound Area
turn 4 
Helos, and load any 
reinforcements or supplies
. turn 4 
Vehicle Phase move to 
Inbound Area
turn 5 
Vehicle Phase move 
to On Map LZ to 
complete full cycle 
turn 5 
Command activate 
the Helos,

B. Move 
Move the vehicle to an adjacent card. Resolve any VOF present 
on the card from which it begins movement before movement. 
If it survives that initial attack, move it onto another card. If that 
card has a VOF Marker on it, immediately resolve the VOF pres-
ent on that card. Lastly, resolve any Reaction Fire from any AT 
capable unit that has an LOS. 
 
After resolving any Reaction Fire and if the activated vehicle 
survives, you may continue to move the vehicle (if allowed by 
the movement restrictions), resolving VOF and Reaction Fires, 
card by card. 
C. Move then Fire 
If the Move & Fire column for a vehicle has a number (even a 
0) in it, you may move such a unit as above and have it fire after 
entering any card. However, you must cease moving it after it has 
fired.
D. Reaction Fire 
As activated vehicles move and fire, they potentially come under 
fire from reacting units. Reacting units are inactive vehicles or 
AT capable infantry and activated vehicles or AT capable infantry 
that have not yet fired. You may have such a unit fire in reaction 
to any vehicle that fires or moves within its LOS. You do not 
need to expend commands to fire these reacting units. You cannot 
have a unit react to Reaction Fire. If a vehicle is in the LOS of a 
vehicle or AT-capable infantry unit when it performs an activity 
in lieu of firing (i.e., spotting), that activity makes it vulnerable to 
reaction fire just as if it had moved or fired. 
 
The VOF resolution against moving/firing vehicles is only for 
those weapons which do not have a specific line on the Vehicle/
AT Weapons Chart. Thus, a weapon that has both a VOF and a 
listing on the Vehicle/AT Weapons Chart would NOT get to at-
tack a moving vehicle twice (with both its VOF and its Gunnery 
Modifier). It would only attack with its Gunnery Modifier. 
 
After you’ve completed the movement and combat of all acti-
vated vehicles, have all friendly vehicles that were not activated 
receive attacks from any VOF present on their cards.
E. Spot 
You may have an activated vehicle that is not under a Pinned 
Marker attempt to spot an unspotted enemy unit in its LOS in lieu 
of firing. Perform the spotting attempt using the same procedure 
as for other spotting attempts. Resolve any VOF fire before the 
spotting attempt. Treat the activated vehicle as if it had just fired.
7.6. Resolving AT Combat
Complete the following Steps in order:
A. Determine the firing unit’s Gunnery Modifier by cross-referenc-
ing the type of firing unit with the range to the target card on the 
Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart. 
B. Add to this the defensive value of the target vehicle type from 
the Defensive Value column of the target. 
C. Add any Cover & Concealment modifiers present on the target 
unit’s card. 
D. If the firing unit has a Move then Fire capability and has moved, 
add the modifier from the Move & Fire column. 
E. Finally, add any other applicable modifier listed at the bottom of 
the Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart. 
The final result is called the AT modifier. Draw an Action Card and 
add the AT modifier to the AT number shown on that card to get a 
final sum. Look up the final sum on the Anti-Armor Table under the 
Anti-Tank Combat Resolution and Modifiers Chart to determine the 
AT Combat result.
If the firing unit has a Quick Shot capability, the target is not a 
helicopter, and the AT combat result is -4, -2, 0, 2, or 4, then the fir-
ing unit has obtained a Quick Shot result. You may have a unit that 
obtains a Quick Shot result fire another AT Combat. And you may 
continue to do so as long as Quick Shot results are obtained. You 
cannot obtain a Quick Shot result against a helicopter.
 
Follow a different procedure when firing a vehicle or an AT Capable 
unit that has a G! VOF. (Such units have smaller caliber weapons 
like 37mm guns.) In this case, draw Action Cards as in an Attempt 
to Make a Grenade Attack (Two cards modified by experience lev-
el.). If successful, then follow the procedure above (determine the 
net AT modifier, draw to get an AT number, and add them together) 
to determine the final AT combat result on the Anti-Armor Table.
7.7. AT Combat Results
While you resolve combat against vehicles and helicopters identi-
cally, there are different combat results for each. The following 
general concepts apply to all AT Combat Results:
• A Wreck Marker provides cover like any other Cover Marker. 
While such a marker does not count against the maximum 
number of Cover Markers allowed for a Terrain card (see 
1.2.1f), it does count against the vehicle capacity limits (see 
1.2.1i), which also apply to LZs.
• A Burning Wreck Marker does not provide cover, but does 
count against the vehicle capacity limits, which also applies 
to LZs. The smoke from a burning wreck is not cumulative 
with other burning wrecks on the same card. Smoke from a 
burning wreck blocks LOS.
• The Vehicle and Anti-Tank Weapons Chart lists the size of 
each vehicle type’s crew in Steps.
A. Combat Results for Vehicles
1) Brewed Up 
Replace the vehicle with a Burning Wreck Marker. Convert each 
crew Step to a casualty.
2) Knocked Out 
Replace the vehicle with a Wreck Marker. Convert each crew 
and passenger Step to a Fire Team and inflict a HIT result on 
each. Resolve the HIT as if it occurred during the Combat Effects 
Phase. Place the teams under the Wreck Marker, but mark them 
Exposed.
3) Retreating 
The vehicle crew decides discretion is the better part of valor. 
Remove the vehicle and any passengers it is carrying from play 
for the remainder of the mission.
4) Pinned 
Place a Pinned Marker on the vehicle to indicate that it is 
buttoned-up. Pinned vehicles have a -1 modifier if targeted in AT 
Combat. They may not Spot. They incur a +1 modifier if firing in 
AT Combat. Remove the Pinned Marker at the end of the Vehicle 
Movement and Combat Phase, but only if the vehicle was not the 
recipient of any form of attack during that phase.
5) Missed 
No effect.
B. Combat Results for Helicopters(& FAC Aircraft)
1) Shot Down – Crashed 
Replace the helicopter with a Burning Wreck Marker. Convert 
each crew and passenger Step to a Casualty.
2) Shot Down – Auto Rotate 
Replace the helicopter with a Wreck Marker. Convert each crew 
and passenger Step to a Fire Team and inflict a HIT result on 
each. Resolve each HIT as if it occurred during the Combat Ef-
fects Phase. Place the teams under the Wreck Marker, but mark 
them Exposed.
3) Aborted – Damaged 
Immediately move the helicopter to the Enroute Staging Area. 

Consider it damaged enough to be unavailable to support the 
rest of the mission. Return the helicopter and any passengers to 
the Pickup Staging Area in the following turn where the aircraft 
lands and is unable to leave. Any dropped passengers may fly in 
on another undamaged helicopter.
4) Aborted – Undamaged 
The helicopter aborts the current Action, but is still available to 
support the mission during subsequent turns. Immediately move 
the helicopter to the Enroute Staging Area, where you may have 
it re-enter the map in a subsequent turn. Retain any passengers on 
board.
5) Missed 
No Effect
7.8. Ammunition
Vehicle weapons systems that consume ammo will consume ammo 
each time they fire. In other words, if a weapon fires at a Vehicle in 
the Mutual Vehicle-Aircraft Phase, and then fires at infantry in the 
Combat Effects segment, it will have consumed 2 points of Ammo.
8.0. visIbility
Each Mission lists the visibility condition. Normal visibility is +0 
or +1. When the Visibility Modifier is greater than +1, the mission 
takes place under the effects of Limited Visibility. Place a Visibil-
ity Marker near the map to note the Visibility Modifier dictated by 
Mission Instructions.
 
Note that Grenade and Incoming VOF are not affected by the Vis-
ibility Modifier. 
 8.1. Limited Visibility Effects
 
Limited Visibility affects Commands, line of sight and combat:
Commands The number of Commands in Limited Visibility is:
	
Green 	
	
	
Line 	
	
	
Veteran	 	
 
Line of Sight During Limited Visibility the maximum LOS range 
without Illumination or a night observation device is reduced to 
Close Range (adjacent).
Combat The Visibility Modifier (normal or limited) is part of the 
NCM. Apply the Visibility Modifier of between +0 and +5 to the 
Net Combat Modifier (NCM).
8.2. Illumination
The Campaign Instructions list available illumination. Illumina-
tion is available for any mission that has 1 or more turns where the 
visibility is Moon of any value. Illumination can be delivered from 
several sources. Use it to mitigate the effects of Limited Visibility at 
night. Illumination does not help in Rain/ Snow or Fog conditions. 
Place an Illumination Marker on a card either by deploying a Py-
rotechnic or by calling in an Illumination fire mission. The Illumi-
nation Marker has one or more modifiers mitigating the Visibility 
Modifier. Apply the top modifier to the card containing the Illumi-
nation Marker. Apply the bottom modifier, if present, to all adjacent 
cards. (The Illumination Modifier plus the Visibility Modifier can 
never be less than +0.) Any card that is under the effect of illumina-
tion is illuminated. Units have their normal range to illuminated 
cards. Remove Illumination Markers during the Clean Up Phase.
8.3. Night Observation Devices
8.3.1. Active Infrared
 
This includes IR Illuminators and Receivers that are mounted either 
on small arms or on vehicles. Do not apply any Visibility Modifier 
when firing any unit so equipped at Point Blank range (on the same 
card). Do not apply any Visibility Modifier when firing a vehicle 
tank combat example
Tank vs Tank
Vehicle movement and combat all happens in the one phase after 
the command phase. It alternates based on what vehicles are 
activated.
Activated vehicles can move and/or initiate combat. Vehicles not 
activated may only react to the movement or firing of activated 
vehicles. US vehicles are activated by expending a command, 
enemy vehicles are activated via enemy activity checks. 
Vehicles include helicopters.
1. The North Korean T34/85 moves onto our example area via 
an Enemy Activity Check.
2. The US M4A3E8 from the regimental Tank Company reacts 
to the move by engaging the T34/85.
On the player aid card the offensive and defensive 
values of the various vehicles are listed.
The range based offensive modifier for the 
M4A3E8 is Close Range (Adjacent Card) -3
The defensive modifier for the 34/85 +1
The T34/85 was moving +0
The Rice Paddy has +0
For a Net Modifier of -2
An Action Card is drawn and referencing the AT# the modifier is 
added and the Vehicle card is consulted
The T34/85 is PINNED. The T34/85 is 
move and fire capable with a +3 Modifier. 
It has a gunnery modifier of +3 and is 
PINNED for +1. The M4A3E8 has a 
defensive modifier of +0 and is in the +2 
village for a net modifier of +3
 
anti-armor table
Final Sum
Target Type = V
Target Type = H
-1 or less
Brewed Up
Shot Down—Crashed 
0 or 1
Knocked Out
Shot Down—Auto Rotate
2 or 3
Retreating
Aborted—Damaged
Aborted—Undamaged 
6 or more
Miss
Miss

In this example, the square on the leftmost card in Row 3 (Card 53) 
represents a US unit A and the circle in the right most card in that 
row (Card 49) represents US unit B. The other, smaller, squares and 
circles represent enemy units.
US Unit A:
• A unit always has a clear LOS to an adjacent card, so US unit A 
can see the enemy units on Cards 13 and 38 regardless of blocking 
card sides or the spotting unit’s height.
• In addition, blocking sides of the spotting unit’s card do not mat-
ter, so US unit A also has a clear LOS the units on Card 33.
• However, US unit A has a clear LOS to the enemy unit on Card 40 
only if it (the US unit) is on the upper floor of the Multi-Story card 
it is on. If it is, then you ignore the blocking card sides on card 38, 
providing the unit with a clear LOS to Card 40.
• Note also that US unit A cannot see the enemy unit on Card 19. 
An LOS can only be traced along straight lines. For this unit, the 
LOS would have to go straight one card and then diagonally one 
card (or vice versa), and that is not allowed.
US Unit B:
• This unit has a clear LOS to both of the enemy units on Cards 33 
and 19 because they are on adjacent cards. 
• This unit has a clear LOS to the unit on Card 35 because you can 
ignore the blocking terrain on card 49

line of sight
You can see into/out of Smoke with 
those in Smoke Card have a +2 of HC 
Smoke or +1 for WP Smoke but you 
cannot see through or over smoke.
basic los
los with smoke and incoming
You cannot see out of Incoming, but 
you can see in, those you continue to 
maintain a PDF into Incoming. You 
cannot see through or over Incoming.
Limit of basic night/limited visibility 
LOS (includes Rain and Fog)
night los
los night los with illumination
Now That illumination is introduced the US units 
can see into the illuminated area but the Germans 
cannot see out of it. The reciprocal LOS still 
exists between row 2, col. 1 and row 3, col. 2.

unit so equipped out to Close Range (into an adjacent card).
8.3.2. Passive Infrared
This includes goggles and Starlight scopes. The Campaign Instruc-
tions indicate the specific effectiveness of available devices as the 
quality changes over time. You can fire a unit equipped with Passive 
IR regardless of the Visibility out to its full range. Do not apply any 
Visibility Modifier when firing a unit so equipped at any range. Pas-
sive IR has no effect in combination with illumination.
8.3.3. Thermal Sights
You can fire a unit equipped with Thermal Sights regardless of the 
Visibility, Rain/Snow, Fog, or Smoke out to its full range. Do not 
apply any Visibility Modifier when firing a unit so equipped at any 
range.
Unit note: The AC-47 Spooky does NOT have any night observa-
tion system, thus it must drop illumination in order to avoid the 
visibility penalty. 
8.4. Smoke
Smoke is an artificial form of Limited Visibility. Smoke occurs 
as the result of a Pyrotechnic, a fire mission, or a burning wreck. 
Smoke includes HC Smoke, WP Smoke, or Incoming! VOF mark-
ers (dirt and dust kicked up by incoming artillery and mortars). You 
can trace an LOS into, but not through or out of, a card containing 
smoke (Note that this does create a rare instance where LOS is not 
reciprocal). HC and WP smoke provide a defensive benefit to the 
occupants of the card, except to Incoming and Grenade attacks. 
Multiple sources of smoke are not cumulative; use only the one, 
best, defensive benefit.
Clusters and parachutes are NOT considered Smoke. 
 
9.0. The enemy
 9.1. Potential Contact
Enemy contact is a function of US units occupying a card with a 
Potential Contact (PC) marker and the level of Current Activity. 
The Current Activity is dynamic, changing immediately as condi-
tions change. Review and update the Current Activity level as the 
situation changes on the map, including Enemy Activity Checks, 
Friendly movement during the Command Phase, and as Potential 
Contact is resolved. Place the Current Activity Marker next to the 
Current Visibility Marker near the top of the map for easy refer-
ence.
The Current Activity Levels in increasing order are:
1. No Contact:
 No VOF or PDF Markers are on the map and no enemy units 
have been spotted.
2. Contact:
 One friendly/enemy occupied card is under a VOF Marker or 
any spotted enemy units.
3. Engaged:
 Two or more friendly/enemy occupied cards are under VOF 
Markers.
4. Heavily Engaged:
Two or more friendly/enemy occupied cards are under VOF 
Markers and at least one card has both enemy and friendly 
units on it.
 
9.1.1. Potential Contact (PC) Markers
Potential Contact (PC) Markers control the type and location of 
enemy contact (9.2). In some missions, they can move, representing 
potential enemy movement. The markers have two sides. One side 
has the letter A, B or C. The other side has a question mark. The 
letter represents the likelihood and severity of enemy contact, from 
A, the most severe, to C, the least severe. The “?” is used to mark 
unspotted enemy units.
9.1.2. Initial Placement of PC Markers for Offensive 
Missions and Combat Patrols
For Offensive Missions, put PC Markers on the map when set-
ting up a mission. The Mission Instructions indicate which type 
of PC Markers to place by card row, whether to place them letter 
side showing or ? side showing, and how to place them. Place one 
marker of the indicated type on each card that is not occupied by a 
friendly unit in that row. Some missions may dictate placement of 
enemy forces on the map in addition to PC Markers.
If a mission calls for Potential Contact Markers of different letters 
to be randomly placed, select a number of markers of each letter 
equal to the number of Terrain Cards to be marked. Flip all the PC 
Markers so that their ? sides are up, mix them thoroughly, and then 
place the required number in play with their ? sides up. For ex-
ample, if the Mission Instructions say to randomly place 8 markers 
of letters B and C, mix 8 letter B markers and 8 letter C markers, 
and then randomly place 8 of those 16 in play showing their ? sides. 
If there are not enough PC Markers of one letter, select as many as 
possible of that letter and then select an equal number of the other 
letter or letters. For instance, several Vietnam missions say to place 
PC Markers randomly on 25 cards. In this case, select all 16 A 
markers, all 16 B markers, and all 16 C markers, randomize them, 
and place 25 of them in play showing their ? sides.
9.1.3. Placement of PC Markers for Defensive Missions
For Defensive Missions, place PC Markers on cards or entire rows 
as indicated by the Mission Instructions during the Enemy Activity 
Checks. Then resolve them normally. Remove any PC Marker not 
resolved by the end of a particular turn.
 
9.1.4. Counter Attacks
Some Offensive Missions call for a counter attack on a particular 
turn or as a result of an Enemy Higher HQ Event. During a counter 
attack turn, place PC Markers on any US occupied card of the type 
indicated in the instructions. This may take place over a number of 
turns as specified in the event. Some missions may have a different 
set of enemy force packages just for counter attacks. The sequence 
of play for the mission is still that of an Offensive Mission, but the 
Activity Checks (9.4.) are made with Assault tactics for the next 
three turns or until the mission ends, whichever comes first.
9.1.5. Resolving PC Markers
PC markers are resolved during the VOF Phase. Wherever a US 
unit on a card with a PC Marker exists there is a potential enemy 
contact. If any PC Marker is on its question mark side with a US 
unit, flip it to its letter side before resolving it. 
To resolve a marker, check the Potential Contact Draws Chart (also 
on a hint card) and cross-reference the marker’s letter with the Cur-
rent Activity Level. If the cross-reference says “Auto,” you make 
contact without having to draw any cards. If the cross-reference is 
a number you must draw that number of cards. If any card drawn 
contains the word “Contact!” in the upper center, you make contact. 
It is possible no Enemy contact will be made. Remove the marker 
after the PC is resolved. Adjust the Current Activity Marker as 
enemy forces appear.
If more than one PC marker needs to be resolved, do it in alphabetical 
order. Resolve multiple markers of the same letter in random order.

mation for any special force or placement instructions.
If the placement result is “Per Package Table Placement,” refer to 
the Placement column in that campaign’s Force Package Table to 
determine whether to place the units on the same card as where the 
contact occurred, on cards adjacent to the contact card, or on cards 
at the current maximum LOS range from the contact card. If that 
column tells you to place the unit on adjacent cards, or at max LOS, 
continue to draw on the Unit Placement Table until you get a direc-
tion (Front/Side/Rear; Left; Right).
The direction is relative to the player’s orientation to the map (Front 
is the next row toward the top of the map in relation to the player, 
left is to his left, etc.). The Mission Instructions indicate whether 
or not the enemy is spotted and whether or not it is in cover and the 
type of cover, if applicable. Do not place a unit that is listed after a 
“/” character on the same card as another unit in the same package; 
continue to check for placement until you determine a different 
Whenever placing a unit at max LOS, it must be able to see the unit 
triggering the contact. This represents contact being made by the 
enemy unit opening fire.
You cannot place a package on a card where the card is already 
along the PDF of another enemy unit; continue drawing cards until 
a valid location is found. You can NEVER place an enemy pack-
age on a card that already contains enemy units (Exception: when 
you receive a ‘+’ result, those units are placed together.). Continue 
drawing cards until a valid location is found.
An enemy package may appear on a card containing US units if 
called for by the Placement Tables. Note: If a mortar team gets on a 
card with your units, they will, by rule, only be able to engage those 
on-card units, thus you will need to flip the mortar unit to its Fire 
Team side in order for them to be able to do that
Enemy forces may go on a card that still has a PC Marker. In this 
case, leave the PC Marker in place.
An enemy force may not go on a card that currently has an enemy 
Volume of Fire Marker. Continue drawing cards until a valid loca-
tion appears. This applies in reverse, too. That is, you can’t place 
an enemy VOF on a card with an enemy unit, even one that has not 
yet been spotted by US units. [Exception: when a US unit is on a 
card that contains both an Enemy Unit and a PC, if that PC triggers 
an enemy unit that places a VOF, that triggered Enemy unit WILL 
place its VOF on the card of the triggering unit (targeting the US 
unit that triggered it, per 9.2). Thus, in this case only Enemy units 
do place VOFs on cards that contain other Enemy units. You will 
find that in most cases, it is still advantageous for the Enemy to do 
so, as their own troops are generally in field fortifications. This 
represents interlocking fortifications firing close in fire to prevent 
the US from overrunning the card.]
Enemy units placed that are firing through intervening PC Mark-
ers along the line of fire cause those intervening PC markers to be 
removed if at the same level(the enemy will not intentionally fire 
through its own troops; the enemy will fire over the heads of its 
own troops that are at a lower elevation).
The placement of Enemy forces may cause the map to expand past 
its original configuration by placing additional Terrain Cards. US 
units may not leave the original boundaries unless specifically indi-
cated by the Mission Instructions. This may even cause the map to 
extend into the Staging Area. (If so, the main Staging Area expands 
as well to allow US movement off-map per 2.3.5.) To expand the 
map, draw a new Terrain Card from the deck and place it where 
needed. If it’s a Hill card, place it and continue to draw until you 
get a non-Hill card to put on it. Enemy units cannot be placed under 
an Upper Story cover marker (assuming one is available). Do not 
extend the map if an enemy unit leaves it due to a Fall Back result 
When you make contact, consult the Mission Instructions to 
determine the type of contact based on the letter of the PC Marker 
(9.2.1). 
If two PC markers end up on a card due to some event (such as a 
Counterattack), remove the lower letter (A is highest).
You can move vehicles through Terrain Cards without resolv-
ing their PC Markers. Resolve contact only on the card where the 
vehicle ends movement.
9.2. Generating Enemy Forces
Upon making contact, determine the type of enemy contact and 
place it on the map as follows.
9.2.1. Type of Enemy Contact
For each PC Marker where contact has occurred determine the type 
and disposition of the enemy. Draw an Action Card and check the 
random number under 10. Cross-reference this number under the 
PC marker letter in the Mission Information to find a resulting en-
emy force. Check the #/Result on the Enemy Force Package Table 
in the Campaign Instructions for an exact description of the enemy. 
The Force Package Table provides the following information:
Package Name – is usually descriptive but see Description for exact 
details.
Place VOF/PDF? – Tells you whether or not the enemy immediate-
ly opens fire. Enemy forces that do not initially have a VOF/PDF 
will likely automatically open fire the moment the on-map situation 
changes during subsequent turns.
Unit Spotted? – Can you see the new unit or not? If Yes, your eli-
gible available units will open fire on it. If No, flip the PC marker 
to it’s “?” side and place on top of the newly arriving enemy as a 
reminder the unit(s) are unspotted.
Placement – Where is the unit placed? This column’s information 
is only used if the Mission Unit Placement table shows “Per Pack-
age Placement Table.” You must continue to roll on the Mission 
Unit Placement table to find a direction.
Description -- shows the types and number of units to be placed:
•	Mines,
•	Incoming (NCM #),
•	Sniper,
•	Illumination, 
•	Leaders (choose randomly)
•	Forward Observers,
•	Teams,
•	Squads, 
•	Guns/Weapons, or
•	Combination of the above.
Always just place one of any indicated unit type. If multiple units 
are listed, place those with a + sign together on the same card. Place 
those separated by a / character on separate cards. In that way, a 
complex contact may occur from multiple directions simultane-
ously. Annotate the back of the Mission Log with enemy unit and 
ammo information. 
If the generated package cannot be set up because one or more units 
are not available due to counter mix limits, disregard the original 
package and draw additional cards until you generate a package that 
contains unit types that are all still available.
9.2.2 Location of Enemy Contact
All Mines and Incoming markers are placed on the card where the 
contact occurred; for all others a location must be determined. Draw 
an Action Card and check the random number under 10. Refer-
ence this number under the Unit Placement Table in the Mission 
Information to find a resulting placement. This placement indicates 
the direction and distance of the enemy forces relative to the Terrain 
Card where contact occurred. Be sure to check the Mission infor-

from an Activity Check Hierarchy. Remove the unit from play 
instead.
9.2.3. Enemy Cover
The Mission Instructions list a default Cover Level. Place all enemy 
units in that package being placed on the same card under the indi-
cated Cover Marker unless 
a)	the unit’s package specifically mentions another type of cover, in 
which case use that one instead, or 
b)	it indicates the unit is Exposed, in which case do not use any 
Cover Marker. 
When an Enemy Force Package makes no mention of Cover, place 
the Enemy unit(s) in Default Cover according to Mission instruc-
tions. When it says “under [fortification type],” place the unit(s) 
under that fortification type. When it says “in Cover,” place the 
unit(s) under a +1 Cover marker. When it says “No Cover,” then no 
cover is placed for the unit(s). 
9.2.4. Enemy Firing (VOF/PDF)
When placed, enemy units will always target the unit that triggered 
their placement (Exception: in Vietnam missions ONLY, enemy 
units CAN be generated on the card of US Units that did NOT 
trigger them, thus causing them to open fire on that card rather than 
the unit that triggered them. This represents the extensive use of 
tunneling by the enemy in Vietnam). 
If the placement location drawn does not legally allow the enemy 
unit to target the triggering US unit, redraw for a different place-
ment. Continue drawing until the above requirement is met. If that 
package cannot legally be placed to comply with this, redraw for a 
different package. If NO available package could legally comply, 
then discard the contact entirely. 
From the Advanced Tutorial:
a.	We have only one unit on a card with Potential Contact markers: 
1/2 squad in the Gully. The Marker is a “C” contact. Checking 
the Potential Combat Draw Chart shows that we have to draw 
three cards when the Current Activity Level is “Contact.” .Three 
cards are drawn, one of which is a Contact.. So we remove the 
Potential Contact C marker from the Terrain card, then generate 
an enemy contact.
b.	To determine what unit we have contacted, draw an Action Card 
and consult the random number section. The number under the 
“10” is “2.” Checking the “2/10” row on the Potential Contact C 
chart for this mission in the Mission Briefing Book (page 7) gives 
a result of “Incoming Mortars.” Now we check the German Force 
Package on page 3 of the Briefing Booklet to get the details on 
exactly what to place.
c.	On the “Incoming Mortars’ line of the German Force Package, 
we see that we put an Incoming Marker on the Gully Card (the 
Incoming marker always goes on the card that generated the con-
tact.) This Incoming marker will have a -3 NCM, which is noted 
on the Mortar Spotter.
d.	We now flip the next Action Card to determine placement of the 
81 mm Mortar Spotter. The random number (under the “10”) on 
the card is “3”. We check the Unit Placement Table (page 5 of 
Briefing Booklet). The “3/10” result is “Front at max LOS”. So 
we place the Spotter on the Farm in the hills on Row 3, directly 
in front of the Gully.
e.	We place one of the “?” Contact markers on the Mortar Spotter to 
denote that he is Unspotted (per the German Force Package table). 
The default cover for the mission is Foxholes (see Mission Briefing 
Booklet, page 7 – “Enemy Information: Mission Details”), so we 
also place a ‘Foxholes’ counter on the Mortar Spotter.
f.	Note that the Mortar spotter does not exert a normal PDF or 
VOF, only the Incoming VOF marker. Because the Spotter is cur-
rently Unspotted, no US PDF or VOF markers are placed.
g.	Note the Mortar Spotter contact on the back side of my Mission 
Log, indicating that he gets a -3 NCM, 4 Draws per Call for Fire, 
and a total of 3 Fire Missions (this turn’s Incoming Fire will 
count as one of the three). All of this information comes from the 
Spotter Information section of the Enemy Information section in 
the Briefing Booklet (page 7).
9.3. Spotting the Enemy
Some enemy units are placed in play automatically spotted as per 
the Enemy Force Package Tables. Many enemy units come into 
play unspotted. Unspotted applies to all occupants of a card. You 
may not have friendly units engage enemy units on an unspot-
ted card, even though enemy units on that card may be engaging 
friendly units. 
In order to spot an enemy unit, make an Action attempt with a base 
draw of two cards, as modified by the modifiers on the Spotting 
Attempts Draw Modifiers Chart, with an absolute minimum of a 
one card draw. Note some modifiers pertain to the unit attempting 
to spot while others pertain to the enemy unit it is trying to spot. An 
unspotted enemy unit that moves into a card with a spotted enemy 
unit is automatically spotted. Friendly forces are always considered 
spotted by the enemy.
A card can never contain both spotted and unspotted units. If one 
unit on the card is spotted, all units on that card, including those 
that move in, are spotted.
An unspotted enemy cannot be purposely targeted. There are only 
two cases where an unspotted enemy unit can be affected by a 
friendly VOF:
•	If you receive a Battalion Fire Mission and one or both of the 
adjacent cards you choose has unspotted enemies present.
•	If an unspotted enemy unit ends up on a card that already has 
a friendly VOF on it (one example of this would be if US 
units are firing into an empty card and a PC placement result 
puts an enemy on that card)
9.4. Enemy Activity Checks
During the Enemy Activity Check segment of each turn, check each 
Enemy unit individually. Remember first to determine randomly in 
what order to check each enemy-occupied card, then within each 
card to check Pinned/LAT units, Good Order units, and Leaders, 
in that order. Each enemy unit will be checked only ONCE PER 
TURN, regardless what change of status may occur.
There are three different Activity Check Hierarchy Tables: 
• Pinned/LAT, 
• Offensive, and 
• Defensive. 
On the Offensive and Defensive Hierarchy Activity Tables, there 
are columns for different enemy tactics (Defensive: Delay, Hasty, 
Deliberate; Offensive: Assault, Overrun). Find the hierarchy and the 
tactics the enemy is using for the mission in the Mission Instruc-
tions and then use the corresponding column for all activity checks. 
Check all Pinned and LAT units on the Pinned/LAT table. 
For all charts, find the first case that applies to the unit starting 
at the top and proceeding to the bottom of the appropriate tactics 
column. Randomly determine the order in which you check the 
enemy occupied cards. For each card, check Pinned/LAT units first, 
then Good Order units and finally any leaders. Draw a card using 
the Random Number section appropriate to the applicable case to 
determine what Action or attempts, if any, the unit performs. Imple-
ment or attempt that Action immediately before moving on to the 
next enemy unit.

An enemy unit not otherwise engaged against a friendly unit must 
engage (place a VOF Marker and PDF Marker) any friendly unit 
that moves into its LOS; no draw is necessary. If more than one 
occupied card is in its LOS, it engages the largest target in terms 
of Steps. If equal, use a random selection to determine the enemy 
PDF. An enemy unit loses its PDF if a US unit enters its card and 
switches its fire to the entering unit.
Do not make an activity check for any unit whose Action is man-
dated by another rule, such as a unit that is out of ammo. If a result 
is drawn on the Enemy Activity Hierarchy tables that an enemy 
unit cannot legally perform, and there are no alternatives listed for 
that result, or if there is no row that applies to the unit in its current 
state, then that enemy unit does nothing.
When an enemy unit needs to choose among targets on its own 
card, it selects the largest target first, then randomly among equal 
sized targets. 
Enemy units that move are subject to the same restrictions as US 
units that move. Thus, mark any enemy unit that moves, including 
one that Falls Back or Seeks Cover, with an Exposed Marker. In ad-
dition, certain unit types, as listed in 6.2, cannot fire if marked with 
an Exposed Marker.
Enemy units that receive a Fall Back result will move away from 
US units into one of the 3 cards to the rear (or 2 cards if it is on the 
edge of the map). The first priority for the Fall Back move is the 
card that is out of LOS of any US units. Next priority is the card 
with the Highest terrain value. If more than one of the allowable 
cards fits these priorities, then determine the card randomly. If an 
enemy unit is targeting a US unit on its card and it receives a Fall 
Back result, it will continue to target that same US unit after execut-
ing the Fall Back (unless, of course, it has Fallen Back onto a card 
that also contains a US Unit).
Note that some Enemy Activity Hierarchy results will call for an 
enemy unit to be removed and be replaced with a PC marker. In all 
such cases, place the same letter PC marker that was placed on the 
row at setup. If there is a PC marker already present, do not place 
another – simply remove the enemy unit. 
9.5. Mines, Booby Traps, and Claymores
Place any Mines VOF Marker discovered via Potential Contact on 
the same card as the unit resolving the Potential Contact. Every 
unit, friendly or enemy, currently on the card must immediately do 
a mine check. As indicated on the marker, draw 3 Action Cards for 
each unit. If any card contains a Burst icon, then the unit has been 
hit; flip the Mine marker to the explosion side as a reminder to 
implement the hit(s) during the Combat Effects Segment. For infan-
try units, the VOF for a mine is -4 and for AT Combat the VOF is 
-2. Neither is affected by Limited Visibility.
Thereafter, you must have each infantry unit or vehicle, friendly or 
enemy, that enters or moves within a mined card check for a mine 
attack by drawing 3 cards for each unit and checking for a Burst 
icon. This applies whether it’s the same turn that the mine was dis-
covered or a later turn. You do not need to check for a mine attack 
when a unit leaves a mined card. You cannot remove a mine.
Booby Traps appear in the same manner as mines. A Booby Trap 
does not persist, however, and attacks only once. When a booby 
trap appears, it automatically attacks one unit with a -4 mine attack. 
If multiple units occupy the card, determine randomly which one to 
attack. There are no separate Booby Trap markers; use a Grenade 
Attack Marker as a reminder when one appears.
Claymore Mines are available as indicated in the Mission Instruc-
tions. Place them at the start of the mission on or adjacent to any 
US occupied card, no more than one per card. If an enemy unit 
enters or appears on a card with a Claymore, after all enemy units 
have moved the Claymore attacks one unit with a -4 mine attack. If 
multiple units could be attacked, determine randomly which one to 
attack. Remove the Claymore after it is used once.
9.6. Snipers
Upon contacting a sniper, draw an Action Card to determine the 
placement of the sniper per the Contact Placement Table in the Mis-
sion Instructions. However, always place it at maximum LOS range 
from the affected card and unspotted. A sniper may attack with 
Grenades, and it may employ a free Grenade Attack when it is the 
subject of an enemy Grenade Attack. 
A sniper remains in play and continues to attack the card that 
brought the sniper on the map until spotted. Once spotted and in 
Good Order, you must move the sniper one card away from any 
friendly units during each Activity Check Segment until it is out 
of friendly LOS or has exited the map (exiting the map removes it 
from play). When a Good Order Sniper is Spotted and thus follow-
ing his instructions to move one card away from US units until out 
of LOS, his first priority is the allowable card that is out of LOS of 
all US units. His next priority is the card with the Highest terrain 
value. If more than one of the allowable cards fit the priorities, then 
determine the card randomly.
If no targets exist on the target card the sniper will engage the clos-
est friendly occupied card in its LOS. If multiple potential targets 
exist, engage the one with the most Steps. If there are still multiple 
targets possible, determine the new target randomly.
If a Sniper no longer has any eligible targets, leave it in place until 
another target appears. 
Note that snipers are not governed by the Enemy Activity Hierar-
chy, but by this section. However, if Pinned or reduced to an LAT, 
snipers then will follow the Enemy LAT Activity Hierarchy.
If a vehicle moves into a card that is being targeted by a Sniper, the 
vehicle is subject only to the S VOF from the Sniper, not from the 
H (the H only affects the specific target). However, if a vehicle is 
ON a card when a Sniper is choosing a target, that vehicle is part of 
the target selection process and, if selected, will then be subject to 
the H VOF from the Sniper.
9.7. Leaders
When a leader appears via a PC marker, randomly choose a leader. 
There is no functional difference between available enemy leaders.
When an enemy leader is in play, draw an additional card for any 
Action attempts made by enemy units in communication with the 
leader. Flip an enemy leader alone on a card to its Fire Team side 
during the first Enemy Activity Check Segment after it enters that 
state. 
9.8. Indirect Fire Spotters
Place an enemy Incoming VOF Marker on the same card as the unit 
resolving the Potential Contact that creates the marker. There is 
always a spotter controlling Incoming VOF. Draw an Action Card 
to determine the placement of the spotter per the Contact Placement 
Table in the Mission Instructions, but always place it at maximum 
LOS range from the affected card and unspotted. The initial fire 
happens automatically without the need for a draw.
Provided the spotter remains in Good Order and has fire missions 
remaining, it continues to call for fire with the following priority:
1. Units in the same card as the VOF marker.
2. The card within its LOS that has a vehicle.
3. The card within its LOS that has the most Steps.
4. If multiple cards have an equal number of Steps, and are at 
the same range, then determine the target randomly.
The number of available missions (including the initial one), the 
Net Combat Modifier, and the number of draws for all fires after 
the first are included in the mission instructions. An enemy spotter 

10.2.1. Squads
You may reconstitute a squad unit which has been removed from 
the map. Any two or three fire/assault teams may be given a At-
tempt to Reconstitute Squad order (4.2.3.i). If the attempt is suc-
cessful remove the fire/assault teams and replace them with a 2 or 3 
step squad, respectively. 
Thus, in practice, a regular squad can regain its original Good Order 
counter during a mission through first rallying Steps up to fire/as-
sault teams and then reconstituting the teams into a squad.
It is intentional that there is no mechanism to track which LATs 
have come from which specific units. Units reduced to LATs 
become small clumps of men with varying agendas. Assault Teams 
are conceptual similar to “berserk” units from other games, and 
their response to the pressure of combat is an uncontrollable urge to 
engage the enemy in combat.
You can never have a unit rally/reconstitute such that it ends up 
with more firepower than it started with. 
10.2.2. Headquarters
Reconstituting a HQ is returning an HQ unit to the map that has 
been removed by converting an eligible Good Order step to the 
desired HQ unit. Note: An HQ on its fire team side flips through a 
rally Action.
Platoon HQ
A Platoon HQ may be reconstituted from the XO, 1st Sgt or any 
Good Order step from that Platoon. Any eligible unit can be used; 
no chain of command restricts who can be used in sequence to 
replace a PLT HQ. This is Command & Control Action 4.2.1.d.
Company HQ
The Company HQ reconstitutes from its XO, any Platoon HQ, Arty 
FO, then 1st Sergeant in that order, If a higher level unit is still in 
play on its Fire team side, it must first be rallied then used to recon-
stitute the CO HQ; it cannot be skipped over unless removed from 
play. For example, for the 1st Sgt to be able to reconstitute the CO 
HQ, the XO, all PLT HQs and the Arty FO must have been removed 
from play. This is Command & Control Action 4.2.1.e.
10.2.3 Weapons Teams and FOs
Once their counter is removed from play, it may not return via rally 
or reconstitution during the course of a mission. If they have been 
turned into Paralyzed or Litter Teams, they can be rallied to generic 
Fire or Assault teams and used to reconstitute squads.
10.3. Experience
10.3.1. Gaining Experience
The Company receives Experience Points by accomplishing tasks 
during the course of a mission. The mission instructions indicate 
how many points each task is worth.
Possible Mission tasks include but are not limited to:
 
• Capture an enemy casualty
• Capture enemy prisoners
• Clear # of cards
• Clear all rows
• Clear another car that had a PC B or C marker
• Clear another card that had a PC A marker
• Clear cards in column two sleep
• Clear cards on rows
• Clear more than # cards 
• Clear other cards on rows # and #
• Clear perimeter cards
• Complete HQ event marked “*” that turn
• Each card without enemy troops occupied at end clear cards 
 on rows
• Inflict (but not capture ) enemy casualty 
• Knock out or brew up enemy vehicle
attempts to call for all fires after the first one in the Enemy Activity 
Check Segment. A fire mission is expended only if the Call for Fire 
draw was successful. Remove Good Order spotters from play when 
they have expended all their available fire missions.
Like the sniper, Enemy spotters are not governed by the Enemy 
Activity Hierarchy but by their own rules in this section. However, 
if Pinned or reduced to an LAT, Enemy spotters will then follow the 
Enemy LAT Activity Hierarchy.
9.9. Enemy Ammunition
Track enemy ammunition and fire missions on the back side of 
the Mission Log. In the Clean Up Phase, remove from play any 
unspotted enemy unit that runs out of ammunition. Have any spot-
ted, Good Order enemy unit that runs out of ammo attempt to leave 
the map by moving one card away from friendly units during each 
Activity Check Segment until it is out of friendly LOS or has exited 
the map, in which case remove it from play. You must move the 
enemy unit along the path of greatest cover and concealment that 
still takes it away from the closest friendly units. If another VOF 
rating exists A unit that has an Out of Ammo marker placed on it 
continues to fight with its new VOF rating and is not required to 
leave the map. 
9.10. Enemy Vehicles
Enemy vehicles may be activated for movement or combat in 
the Vehicle Phase via an activity check. The Mission Instructions 
provide the specific vehicle priorities for enemy vehicles when ac-
tivated. When vehicles from both sides are activated, the attacking 
side goes first and activations alternate afterwards.
 10. Rallying, Reconstituting, and 
Experience
You may increase the state of a Unit in a reduced state during a 
mission by rallying or reconstituting the unit. You may increase the 
experience level of a unit between missions by spending Experience 
Points. You may also promote and replace units between missions.
10.1. Rally
10.1.1.
Rally is used to remove PINNED markers. Rally Action 4.2.3.a.
10.1.2.
Rally is used to flip units with a fireteam side to their Good Order 
side (i.e. Weapon Team, FO, HQ). Rally Action 4.2.3.f.
10.1.3
You may increase the state of a unit from a lower numbered state to 
a higher numbered state by successfully performing a Rally Action 
on the unit. The unit states are:
1. Paralyzed Team
2. Litter Team
3. Fire Team or Assault Team
4. Good Order
 
Use Rally Actions 4.2.3.b-e.
 
If a unit has incurred a combat result (see 6.9.2.) that has caused 
its original counter to be replaced by an LAT counter (Paralyzed, 
Litter, Assault, or generic Fire Team), the unit can never be rallied 
back to its original counter. The highest state it can attain via Rally 
orders during a mission is a (generic) Fire Team or Assault Team. 
10.2. Reconstituting
 

• Perform a successful Grenade! attack
• Secure the attack position card
• Secure the primary objective card
• Secure the secondary objective card
• Successfully evacuate a friendly casualty
 
You do not need to transport an enemy casualty to capture it but 
you must clear its card in order to gain points for it.
“Clear” means all enemy units and PC markers are removed. 
“Secure” means a friendly unit occupies the location. “Clear and 
Secure” means both.
Determine whether a card is cleared at the end of a mission. You 
do not get points for a card that is cleared during a mission but then 
reoccupied by the enemy before the mission is over, and you cannot 
get double points for clearing a card twice.
 
10.3.2. Using Experience Points
At the conclusion of a mission Experience Points are used to 
promote Steps. Promotions never happen during the course of a 
mission. Returning casualty Steps may also serve to promote a unit.
After completing a mission, do the following in the indicated order:
• Tally Experience Points.
• Demote to Green all Steps ending the mission as LATs.
• Promote Steps.
• Add available replacements.
It costs one Experience Point to promote a Step from green to line. 
It costs three Experience Points to promote a Step from line to 
veteran. You may increase a Step in experience by only one level 
between missions. The Company loses unused Experience Points.
You cannot use Experience Points to promote attached or support-
ing Steps assigned to the Company by the Mission Instructions 
(engineers, heavy weapons Company, etc.). 
Each patrol in a Combat Patrol mission is considered a separate 
mission, so you do accumulate and spend Experience points be-
tween each Patrol.
10.4. Replacements
At the end of a successfully completed mission the Company 
receives replacement Steps. You only receive replacement Steps 
after the successful completion of a mission, not for reattempting a 
mission.
Replacements generally arrive as Green, but after a mission, some 
replacements become veterans as lightly wounded men return to the 
Company. Return one out of every four casualty Steps per mission as 
a veteran, rounding any fractions down. You can add the Steps to any 
unit in the Company.
These Veteran Steps that return are in addition to any replacements 
listed in the Campaign Instructions. For example, if the US forces in 
a WWII mission lost 6 Steps, then the US would get 6 Green replace-
ment Steps and 1 Veteran Step. (Note: when counting casualties for 
the sake of determining how many veteran Steps you receive, count 
ALL casualties – evacuated or not. But only count those from the 
mission just completed – there is no carryover from mission to mis-
sion.)
Allocate the replacements Steps as indicated on the Mission Instruc-
tions to the Company and then determine the final Experience Level 
of individual units. Once the combined experience of a multi- Step 
unit is determined (see 10.6), all Steps are at that Experience Level 
for the next mission. 
You can also use a replacement Step to reconstitute an HQ or Staff 
unit, but that unit has an Experience Level of Green. 
Weapons Teams and FOs attached to your Company for a mission are 
automatically replaced for subsequent missions and do not require 
replacements - their parent organization takes care of that for you.
10.5. Rotations
Some campaigns have rotations where veteran Steps rotate out of 
the Company per the Campaign Instructions.
10.6. Multi-Step Unit Experience Levels
For Two-Step Units
• Veteran + (Green or Line) = Line
• Line + Green = Green
For Three-Step Units
• 2x Veteran + Green = Line
• 2x Veteran + Line = Veteran
• 2x Line + Any = Line
• 2x Green + Veteran = Line
• 2x Green + Line = Green
• Veteran + Line + Green = Line
11. Victory Conditions
You must successfully complete a mission before moving on to 
the next mission in the campaign. The Mission Instructions will 
indicate what constitutes the successful completion of a mission and 
the number of times the mission may be attempted. You may only 
re-attempt a mission if you failed to complete it.
11.1. Reattempting a Failed Mission
Perform the following Steps when reattempting a mission. Also 
apply all of these to any patrol after the first one in a Combat Patrol 
mission except where you regenerate the map between patrols 
(which represents a different area).
1) Assign any Experience Points earned from the previous attempt, 
but do not add replacements. These must wait until successfully 
completing the mission.
2) Reconstitute squads from LATs if enough remain, and automatic 
rally. Leave remaining LATs as Fire Teams. 
3) Reposition friendly units to any friendly secured card. You may 
place them underneath cover.
4) Remove any enemy Paralyzed and Litter Teams. Remove all 
casualties, too.
5) Remove any friendly units taken prisoner by the enemy.
6) Leave any found Cover Markers or mines on the map.
7) Leave any enemy unit that is under a Cover Marker in that cover, 
but place any enemy unit not under cover under the best cover 
available on its card.
8) Flip any burning wrecks to wrecks.
9) Remove Pinned Markers. 
10) Start a new Mission Log.
11) Remove saved Command Points. Reset all assets, too.
12) Use the same number of turns, fire-support missions, and am-
munition points for the new mission as for the original mission.
 • Apply bullets 2, 5, 10, and 11 between missions, too.
11.2. Relief for Cause
If you cannot complete a Mission successfully within the number of 
attempts given by the Mission Instructions, you fail the Campaign. 
Higher Headquarters relieves you of command. In other words, you 
must start over with the first mission of the Campaign
11.3. Between Missions
Perform these activities in order between missions.
1) Remove any friendly units taken prisoner by the enemy.
2) Reconstitute squads from LATs if enough remain, and automatic 

US Army Engineers Vietnam
 
 
 
 
US Army Mortars WWII & Korea
 
 
 
 
 
US Army Mortars Vietnam
 
Squad breakdown 
US Army WWII & Korea
US Army Vietnam 
US Army Engineers WWII & Korea
German Army (Heer)
 
Mission 1 Only
All other Missions 
German Paratrooper (Fallschirmjaeger)
 
 
 or
All Missions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
North Koreans (NKPA)
 
 
 
 
 
Viet Cong (VC)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
North Vietnamese Army (NVA).
rally. Leave remaining LATs as Fire Teams. 
3) Spend Experience Points on promotions.
4) Add replacements
5) Remove saved Command Points. 
6) Reset all assets as per the new mission.
7) Start a new Mission Log.
11.4. Combat Patrols
Combat patrols only need to have any unit from the patrol occupy 
the objective and route points to fulfill the mission
requirements for victory determination. There is no need to clear or 
secure the objective or route points, unless specifically
required by the mission instructions. If combat patrols are per-
formed on the same map, place new PC Markers between each 
patrol as these missions take place over days and weeks.

© GMT L.L.C. 2011
Turn Sequence Summary
3.1 Friendly Higher HQ Event Phase (Starting on Turn 2)
	
 • Draw an Action Card; if the HQ icon is present, determine an event on the Friendly Higher HQ Events Table
3.2 Defensive Missions: Enemy Activity Phase 
	
3.2.1 Enemy Higher HQ Event Segment (Starting on Turn 2)
	
 • Draw an Action Card; if the HQ icon is present, determine an event on the Enemy Higher HQ Events Table
	
3.2.2 Enemy Activity Check Segment
	
 • Place PC Markers as indicated by the Mission Instructions
	
 • Check every enemy unit on the map for activity
	
	
• Determine card order randomly
	
	
• On each card, check units based on their status on the Activity Check Hierarchy tables
3.3 Friendly Command Phase
 During the segments of this phase:
	
• For a unit or HQ to receive a command, it must be in the chain of command of the HQ or leader issuing the command and in communication with it
	
• Place an Activation Marker on any vehicles activated
	
3.3.1 Activation Segment
	
 3.3.1a BN HQ Impulse
	
	
• If the BN HQ is not on map, activate the CO HQ
	
	
• If the BN HQ is on map, give it the maximum number of commands and expend them on units (4.2)
	
 3.3.1b CO HQ Impulse
	
	
• If activated by the BN HQ, draw an Action Card and give it the modified number of Activated Commands listed
	
	
	
 3.3.1c PLT HQ/CO Staff Impulse
	
	
• If activated by the CO HQ, draw an Action Card and give it the modified number of Activated Commands listed
	
	
	
3.3.2 Initiative Segment
	
 3.3.2a CO HQ Impulse
	
	
• If not activated above, draw an Action Card and give it the modified number of Initiative Commands listed
	
	
	
 3.3.2b PLT HQ Impulse
	
	
• If not activated above, draw an Action Card and give it the modified number of Initiative Commands listed
	
	
	
 3.3.2c CO Staff Impulse
	
	
• If not activated above, give it 1 command
	
	
• Save that command or expend it (and any saved commands) on units 
	
 3.3.2d General Initiative Impulse
	
	
• Draw an Action Card and expend on any units a number of commands equal to the Initiative Commands
	
	
	
o If it’s a Combat Patrol, halve the number first
3.4 Offensive Missions/Combat Patrols: Enemy Activity Phase 
	
3.4.1 Enemy Higher HQ Event Segment (Starting on Turn 2)
	
	
• Draw an Action Card; if the HQ icon is present, determine an event on the Enemy Higher HQ Events Table
	
3.4.2 Enemy Activity Check Segment
	
	
• Check every enemy unit on the map for activity
	
	
	
• Determine card order randomly
	
	
	
• On each card, check units based on their status on the Activity Check Hierarchy tables
3.5 Mutual Capture & Retreat Phase
	
	
• Have enemy capture any Paralyzed or Litter Team alone on a card with enemy units
	
	
• If side does not take prisoners, convert captured Steps to casualties; otherwise, designate guards
	
	
• Retreat any non-pinned/non-captured Paralyzed Team under VOF Marker one card to better cover and mark Exposed
3.6 Mutual Vehicle-Aircraft Phase
	
	
• Move and fire activated vehicles; if both sides have activated vehicles, alternate sides, starting 
	
	
 (for Offensive Mission or Combat Patrols) with the US or (for Defensive Mission) with the enemy
	
	
• Conduct vehicle combat
	
	
• Flip each unit’s Activated Marker as it finishes
3.7 Mutual Combat Phase
	
3.7.1 VOF Segment
	
 3.7.1a Update Fire Missions
	
	
• Remove existing Incoming! and Air Strike VOF Markers
	
	
• Flip Pending Markers to their active sides
	
	
	
• Adjust the Current Activity Marker as needed
	
 3.7.2b Evaluate Potential Contact Markers
	
	
• For each card with a PC Marker and a friendly unit, draw a number of Action Cards based on the PC Marker 
	
	
 and the Current Activity Level on the PC Draws Chart
	
	
	
• If a card contains Contact!, Contact is made; immediately change the Current Activity Marker 
	
	
	
• If enemy units are spotted, determine enemy package to use and placement per 9.2 
	
	
	
• Place any applicable VOF and PDF Markers
	
	
	
• Update the Mission Log
	
 3.7.2 Combat Effects Segment
	
	
• For each infantry unit on a card with a VOF marker: 
	
	
	
• Determine the NCM
	
	
	
• Draw an Action Card to determine if the fire is effective
	
	
	
• If the unit is hit, draw another Action Card to determine the hit’s effect based on the unit’s experience
	
	
• Adjust VOF and PDF Markers as needed
3.8 Clean Up Phase
	
	
• Remove Pyrotechnic, Illumination, Exposed, Moved/Fired, Concentrated Fire, Grenade, and Grenade Miss Markers 
	
	
• Evacuate casualties from Casualty Collection Points
	
	
• If a Defensive Mission, remove any unresolved PC Markers