GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
GMT1015
g a me de sig n by C had Je n se n
NOTE: Items in purple text indicate functional 
changes from the first edition of this rulebook.
Series Rulebook
Series Rulebook
Fighting Formations

INTRODUCTION
Fighting Formations (FF) is a series of wargames 
covering WWII tactical combined-arms combat at 
the platoon and squad levels. Each game in the series 
will feature a distinct combat unit, highlighting 
battles in which that unit participated as well as its 
particular order of battle and fighting characteristics. 
In each scenario, one player will take command 
of elements of this featured unit while the other 
assumes control of the opposing forces. These two 
players will alternate giving orders, activating their 
units on the map for various military functions. 
Players attempt to achieve victory by moving their 
combat units across the game map to attack their 
opponent’s units and to achieve as many scenario 
objectives as possible. The degree to which a player 
succeeds or fails is measured by a scenario’s specific 
victory conditions—be it the destruction of enemy 
units, the taking of vital mapboard objectives, or the 
exiting of friendly units off the opponent’s map edge.
Each game turn is divided into ten orders, with each 
player performing a variable number of these orders. 
In each turn, the sequence of play is fluid – with 
orders being given by the active player and reactions 
being taken by both players – depending upon the 
relative initiative level at any given moment.
Sit back, buckle up, and enjoy the ride!
Throughout this booklet you will see paragraphs 
such as this one set in blue text. These sections are 
filled with clarifications, play hints, design notes, 
and other assorted wisdom in order to help ease 
you along.
Rules found within this booklet are the “Core 
Rules” of the series. Rules within each game’s Play-
book are termed its “Exclusive Rules.” Whenever a 
conflict arises between Core Rules and Exclusive 
Rules, the Exclusive Rules always take precedence.
Throughout this rulebook and the accompanying 
Playbook will be found numbers within brackets 
– e.g. [3.2] – which will indicate to the reader 
an important reference to another rule. These 
references may be ignored when reading through 
the rules for the first time, as their main use is to 
aid the reader in finding a specific related rule 
during play.
Ta b l e of Con t en t s
Glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Core Rules—Components
1. Track Display . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2. Maps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
3. Units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
4. Command Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
5. Hit Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
6. Sighting Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
7. Fortification Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
8. Smoke Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
9. Fate Card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
10. Asset Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Core Rules—Mechanics
20. Sequence of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
21. Game Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
22. Victory Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
23. Line of Sight (LOS) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
24. Terrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
25. Abandoning Guns & Vehicles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
26. Barrage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Core Rules—Orders
30. General Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
31. Advance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
32. Assault . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
33. Asset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
34. Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
34.1 Direct Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
34.2 Melee Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
34.3 Return Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
35. Move . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
35.6 Opportunity (Op) Fire . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
36. Rally . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
37. Sniper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
38. Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Summary of Orders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . back page
S cen a r io s
Each game within the FF series will come with several “scenarios.” Each 
scenario represents a battle in which the featured formation fought. Sce-
narios will instruct the players as to which map(s) to use, which and how 
many units and markers to use, how to set up the game, how to win the 
game, etc. Scenarios are found within each game’s Playbook.

G l o s s a ry
Activate—Units belonging to the active player 
(only) can be activated for orders. Activated units 
are indicated by their being flipped to their reverse 
side (with the white stripe). [30.1]
Active —The player currently performing an 
order. Any unit or marker belonging to that player. 
Adjacent—Units and markers in the same hex 
are adjacent to one another. Two hexes sharing a 
common hexside are adjacent to one another. Units 
and markers in one of those hexes are adjacent to 
units and markers in the other hex.
Aircraft—A type of barrage. [26]
AP—Armor-piercing. One of two types of unit 
firepower. Only affects units with armor. [3.21]
Armor—One of two types of unit defense. 
Affected only by AP firepower. Armor is an 
abstract measure of how well protected an armored 
unit is from penetrative weaponry. [3.25]
Artiller y—A type of barrage. [26]
Command—Markers used to more efficiently 
activate friendly units for orders and for Return 
Fire/Op Fire. Command markers are not units. 
Command is an abstract measure of how well a 
player can control the units assigned him by each 
scenario. [4] 
Command Radius—The hex a friendly Com-
mand marker occupies as well as every hex within X 
hexes of that hex, where X equals that side's current 
Command & Control level. [4.31]
Countermix—All pieces not currently being 
used on the map or Track Display. When a unit 
or marker is "eliminated" it is always placed back 
into the countermix.
Cover—A number associated with each terrain 
and some fortifications. Cover helps protect a 
unit being shot at. Multiple applicable cover is 
not cumulative. [24.3]
"d" and "D"—The various die sizes found in FF 
are expressed as “d#,” where # is the number of 
faces on the die—for example, “d10” is a 10-sided 
die. A number before the lowercase d – such as 
“2d10” – indicates how many of that die size are 
to be rolled and summed together. When the 
size of dice to be rolled is modified up or down, 
the capital letter D is used —for example, “+1D” 
would increase 2d10 to 2d12 (no 11-sided dice!). 
The “0” on the d10’s is to be treated as a 10, not a 0.
Defense—One of a unit’s base stats. Defense 
can be “soft” (morale) or “hard” (armor). Defense 
is a measure of how much punishment a unit can 
take before being rendered combat ineffective. 
[3.25]
Enemy—A unit or marker belonging to the 
opposing player. A hex occupied by an enemy 
unit or enemy Control or Command marker.
Fire Arc—Rectangular units (guns and vehicles) 
have a defined “front” fire arc; everything else is 
in their “flank” fire arc. Fire arcs affect where a 
unit can move and shoot as well as its defense 
when shot at. [3.4]
Firepower (FP)—One of a unit’s base stats. 
FP can be "soft" (HE and small arms) or "hard" 
(AP). FP is a measure of how much damage a piece 
can inflict on enemy units. [3.21]
For tification —Any of a number of mark-
ers used to represent man-made obstacles (small 
square counters) or protective field works (hex-
agonal counters). Examples might include mines 
or a pillbox, respectively. [7]
FP—Firepower.
Fresh—Any unit without a hit marker on it. 
A fresh unit that is “hit” by a fire attack or bar-
rage has a random hit marker drawn and placed 
atop it. [5]
Friendly—A unit or marker belonging to your 
nationality. A hex occupied by a friendly unit or 
friendly Control or Command marker. 
Gun—One of three unit types. All guns are on 
rectangular counters and have a leg speed. 
HE—High-explosives and small arms. One of 
two types of unit firepower. Only affects units 
with morale. [3.21]
Hindrance—A value with a default of “1” that 
can cause a fire attack to automatically miss. Some 
terrain and markers will increase the hindrance 
value for shots going through it – never into or 
out of it (except for Smoke). Hindrances are not 
cumulative. [23.3]
Hit—A unit with a hit marker on it is “hit” instead 
of fresh. Depending on the marker, a hit unit can 
be prohibited from firing and/or moving. A hit unit 
that is hit again is eliminated. [3.31 & 5]
Inactive—The player not currently perform-
ing an order. Any unit or marker belonging to 
that player. If a game situation forces or allows both 
players to do something simultaneously, the inactive 
player always goes first.
Infantr y—One of three unit types. All infantry 
are on the larger (5/8") square counters.
Initiative—The position of the Initiative pawn 
on the Initiative Track will at all times indicate 
which player is eligible to perform the next order. 
[1.21]
LOS —Line of sight. Generally, a unit in hex A 
has a LOS to hex B if a string, drawn taut between 
those hexes’ center dots, does not touch an obstacle 
in an intervening hex. [23]
Marker—Any round, hexagonal or small (½") 
square counter. Some marker examples include 
Sighting, Bunker, Command, Smoke, Sudden 
Death, Air Support, or the various hit markers.
Melee—Any hex containing units of both sides 
is considered a melee hex. “Entering melee” or 
“exiting melee” means to enter/exit an enemy-
occupied hex, respectively. [34.2]
Morale —One of two types of unit defense. 
Affected only by HE firepower. Morale is an 
abstract measure of how much damage a unit can 
endure before becoming combat ineffective. [3.25]
MP—Movement point. A unit’s speed equals its 
available MPs. MPs are expended by units to move 
from hex to hex during Move and Assault orders, 
among other things.
Obstacle—A type of terrain that blocks LOS 
through it; never into or out of it. [23.2]
Opportunity (Op) Fire—The ability of inac-
tive units to fire at enemy units as they expend 
MPs. [35.6]
Order—The basic action of the game. Performed 
by the player with the Initiative. [30]
Piece—Any unit, Sighting marker or fortifica-
tion marker.
Range—One of a unit’s base stats, shown as a 
superscript to the unit’s FP. Range is a measure of 
how far a unit can shoot, in hexes. [3.22]
Rate of Fire (ROF) —One of a unit’s base 
stats. ROF is an indication of an armament’s base 
rate of fire coupled with its user’s reactive capabili-
ties versus observed enemy activity. [3.23]
Reaction—An ability keyword on some assets. 
Allows a reaction to something occurring in-game. 
There is no limit to the number of asset reactions 
a player may perform each turn other than the 
number of cards in his hand and being able to 
meet each reaction’s stated prerequisite. Return 
Fire and Op Fire are also reactions.
Return Fire—The ability of inactive units to fire 
at enemy units after they themselves fire during a 
Fire order. [34.3]
ROF—Rate of fire.
Special Action—Actions available to some 
units. Indicated on a unit by a capital letter next 
to its FP box. To use a special action the unit must 
be fresh, and usually requires the discard of an 
asset or the expenditure of MPs. [3.27]
Speed—One of a unit’s base stats. Speed is color 
coded for three different types of mobility: leg, 
track, and wheel. Speed is a measure of how well 
a unit can move about the battlefield. [3.24]
Spent—Units belonging to the inactive player 
can become spent when rolling low during Return 
Fire/Op Fire [34.33 & 35.63]. Spent units are 
no longer able to Return Fire/Op Fire for the 
remainder of that order.
Unit—Any rectangular (guns and vehicles) or 
5/8" square (infantry) counter. A unit will have 
three small black bars in front of its name if pla-
toon-sized; one if squad-sized. The three unit types 
are infantry, gun and vehicle. Units are either 
fresh or hit. [3]
Vehicle—One of three unit types. All vehicles 
are on rectangular counters and have either track 
or wheel speed.
VP—Victory Point. [22]

CO R E RU L E S — COMP ONEN T S
1. T r a c k Dis p l ay
The Track Display is the reception point for many of the game’s 
functions—most importantly the Order Matrix. It is also home to 
various tracks and holding boxes that players will use throughout 
the play of the game.
1.1 O r d e r M at r i x
The Order Matrix dominating the center of the Track Display defines 
the capability of the players to perform the various orders – the basic 
actions of FF – throughout the game. Specifically, the 
Matrix determines which orders are available to the play-
ers at any given moment via the position of allotted order 
cubes within its colored boxes.
1.11 S e e din g O r d e r s
At the start of each game, the chosen scenario will direct the players 
as to how to seed the Matrix with order cubes. Then, whenever the 
Matrix runs out of cubes it will trigger the end of a turn, at which 
time the Matrix will be reseeded with fresh order cubes [21.12f].
1.12 E x e c u t in g O r d e r s
Whenever an order is not being performed – that is, at the very start 
of the game or whenever another order is concluded – the player with 
the Initiative is allowed to remove one order cube from the Matrix 
so as to perform a specific order [30]. This order will be either the 
one listed next to the box from where the cube was taken OR any 
single order listed below it. Place cubes removed from the Matrix 
into the "Used Order Cubes" box, where they will await the next 
reseeding of the Matrix.
1.2 In i t i at i v e T r a c k
1. 2 1 I n i t i a t i v e P a w n
The Initiative pawn is placed on the Initiative Track at the 
start of every scenario, and will move back and forth along 
the track – that is, towards and away from each player – as 
Initiative points are spent during play. The position of the 
Initiative pawn serves to determine which player is eligible 
to perform the next order [30].
1. 2 2 V i c t o r y P oin t ( V P) M a r k e r s
Some scenarios will have the players 
place a VP marker on the Initiative 
Track. The scenario will indicate in 
which space the marker begins. As 
VPs are gained and lost during play 
(as described in the scenario’s Victory 
Conditions), players should slide the 
VP marker towards the appropriate 
player a number of spaces equal to the 
relevant gain/loss. The back of the VP marker is used to record VP 
totals greater than 20. A second marker is provided for use in tracking 
VP totals greater than 40. In most cases the player who has the VP 
marker on his side of the "0" space at the end of the game is declared 
the winner [22].
1. 2 3 A t t a c k To t al M a r k e r
This marker is a mnemonic device 
for players to mark an attack's final 
strength. The reverse is used for attacks 
greater than 20.
1.3 T im e T r a c k
1.3 1 Tu r n & S u d d e n D e a t h M a r k e r s
The Turn and Sudden Death markers are placed on 
the Time Track at the start of the game, as directed by 
the particular scenario being played. The Turn marker 
tracks the passage of game time while the Sudden Death 
marker determines how likely it is for the game to end 
once the Turn marker reaches its space [21.22].
1.3 2 Rein f o r c e m e n t M a r k e r s
The Reinforcement markers are placed on the Time 
Track at the start of the game whenever a scenario has 
reinforcing units. Each marker serves as a reminder 
that that side has scheduled reinforcements when the 
Turn marker enters its space [21.12e].
1.3 3 S ni p e r B o x
The Sniper marker is placed here to 
indicate which side is next eligible to 
perform sniper activity [21.12c]. The 
scenario being played will indicate 
which side of this marker begins the game face-up.
1.4 A ir S u p p o r t B ox
The Air Support marker is placed here 
to indicate which side has local air 
superiority at any given time (relevant 
only for certain assets). The scenario 
being played will indicate which side 
of this marker begins the game face-up.
1.5 Ava il a ble / P ending Comm a nd box es
Command markers begin in the Available box, where they are “avail-
able” to be placed on the map for immediate use [4.1]. After spending 
time on the map Command markers are sent to the Pending box, 
where they will wait a turn before being returning to the Available 
box once again [21.12d].
1.6 C omm a nd & C on t rol T r a c k
Each side has a Command Radius marker which is used 
on the Command & Control Track to mark the current 
Command Radius of all its Command markers [4.31].
Turn
Turn
Sudden
Death
Sudden
Death
Command
Radius
Command
Radius

2. M a p s
Each map contains a large identification number used to determine 
which map or maps are used for a particular scenario. Most maps 
also have a compass used to delineate North which is used as an aid 
to setting up initial forces and/or reinforcements.
Superimposed over each mapboard is 
a hexgrid which is used to regulate 
movement and combat at a scale of 
about 75 meters (250 feet) per hex. 
Each hex contains: 
a)	 a specific type of terrain [24] 
which can affect movement 
as well as attacks made into or 
through it;
b)	 a white center dot used for determining line of sight [23] between 
hexes;
c)	 a unique letter-number identifier – such as “J17” picture above – 
used mainly for identifying setup areas.
3. U ni t s
Units are always square or rectangular counters. They are the 
main tool at the player’s disposal with which to craft a victory on 
the battlefield. Players will use their units to fire at opposing units, 
maneuver to take objectives and envelop the enemy, and to hold 
key positions.
3.1 U n i t T y p e s
There are three types of units in FF: Infantry, gun and vehicle. 
Infantry are defined by always being on a larger (5/8") square counter. 
Guns are defined by always being on a long counter and having a leg 
speed. Vehicles are defined by always being on a long counter and 
having either a track or a wheel speed [3.24]. 
J17
J18
3.2 U ni t S tat s
All units have various stats that govern what they can and can’t do 
in the game and, to a great degree, how well they can do it. Not all 
units will have all the stats. The various stats are as follows:
3. 2 1 F ir e p o w e r (F P)
FP is always located in the bottom left corner of a unit and is its base 
strength when firing at an enemy unit [34 & 35.6]. Firepower comes 
in two types: “AP” and “HE.” AP is always shown as a white number 
with a superscript inside a black box; HE as a black number with 
a superscript inside a white box (the superscript is the unit’s “range"; 
see below). When using direct fire, an AP FP can only affect units 
with armor, and an HE FP can only affect units with morale [3.25].
3. 2 2 R a n g e
This is the superscript to every FP stat and is the maximum number of 
hexes away at which it may use that FP to fire at enemy units without 
suffering a detrimental modifier. Units can fire at up to double and 
even triple their printed range with penalty [34.13].
3. 2 3 R a t e o f F ir e ( RO F )
On the front side of every unit – the one without the white stripe – 
this is the number within a diamond at the bottom middle of the 
counter. ROF serves as a trigger whenever the unit uses Return Fire 
or Op Fire: if either attack die is less than or equal to the ROF the 
unit becomes spent [34.33 & 35.63].
3. 2 4 S p e e d
On the reverse side of every unit – the one with the white stripe – this 
is the middle number along the bottom, and gives the number of 
movement points (“MPs”) a unit can spend to move [32 & 35] from 
hex to hex across the map. Speed will always be inside a color-coded 
box to show which mode of transport it has and thus which column 
of the Terrain Chart it will use for its MP expenditures:
●Green = Leg movement
●Blue = Track movement
●Red = Wheel movement
 Sd Kfz 250/10
A 12
1110
 Sd Kfz 250/10
name
[back]
[front]
“AP” FirepowerRange
(vs Armor)
“HE” FirepowerRange
(vs Morale)
Fire Arc: circle () = loose
triangle () = strict
Special Actions
Speed:
= leg
= track
= wheel
bars:
single = squad
triple = platoon
“Armor” Defense (frontﬂank)
“Morale” Defense (frontﬂank)
stripe = activated
Rate of Fire
(ROF)
VEHICLE = long unit with track or wheel speed
GUN = long unit with leg speed
INFANTRY = any square unit
Anatomy of a Unit

3. 2 5 D e f e n s e
Defense is always located in the bottom right corner of a unit and is 
its base strength when defending against a direct fire attack. Defense 
comes in two types: “armor” and “morale.” Armor is always shown as 
a white number inside a black box; morale as a black number inside 
a white box. When a hex is attacked via direct fire, AP FP can affect 
only units with armor, and HE FP can affect only units with morale. 
Many guns and vehicles have a subscripted number accompanying 
their defense. If present, this subscript is the unit’s defense value 
whenever it is being shot at from any hex within its flank fire arc; 
the larger number is then used only for direct fire attacks emanating 
from those hexes within its front fire arc [3.4]. 
3. 2 6 F i r e A r c
All guns and vehicles have one of either a circle or triangle in the 
upper right corner of their counter. A circle denotes a “loose” fire 
arc; a triangle a “strict” fire arc [3.4].
Loose fire arcs are for vehicles with turrets as well as guns having 
some form of 360º mount; usually anti-aircraft types. Strict fire 
arcs represent turretless vehicles and the standard ordnance gun.
3. 2 7 S p e c i al A c t io n s
Some units have one or more capitalized letters next to their FP: 
these are called “special actions.” Special actions allow a fresh unit to 
perform an activity not normally allowed to other units, usually at the 
cost of discarding an asset or spending a specified amount of MPs.
The various special actions within each game in the FF series are 
described in detail in that game’s Playbook.
3.3 U n i t S i z e s
There are two unit sizes in FF: platoon and squad. A platoon can be 
identified by three small black bars and a squad by a single black bar 
in front of the counter name.
SCALE: A squad-sized unit in the game represents: a squad of 8-12 
men; a gun with its inherent crew; or an individual vehicle. Each 
platoon-sized unit represents three such units fighting as a coherent 
formation. Historically, platoons sometimes contained four or more 
units – especially armored formations – but this game uses three as 
a nominal figure for both consistency and simplicity.
DESIGN NOTE: The terms “squad” and “platoon” aren’t 100% accu-
rate, of course, and are used here solely as a matter of convenience. For 
example, a grouping of guns would often be called a “battery” but are 
termed a platoon in FF to maintain consistency throughout the rules.
Squads and platoons act identically for all game purposes except as 
noted in the following two rules.
Platoon
Squad
3.3 1 U ni t E limin a t io n
When a platoon is eliminated [5.2], it is replaced in its hex with 
two squads of the same name (and both with the same fire arc, if 
applicable). The owning player places the hit marker that was on the 
platoon onto one of the replacement squads. Replacement squads 
themselves are never affected by the same attack that hit their parent 
platoon. If there was a Spent marker on the platoon, place a Spent 
marker on both resulting squads. The two squads are considered to be 
the same unit as their parent platoon with regard to the current game 
situation (activated/unactivated; remaining movement points; etc).
When a squad is eliminated, place it back into the countermix. Place 
its hit marker back into the draw cup. 
3.3 2 U ni t S t a c k in g
Unlike similar tactical games, in FF there is no limit to the number 
of units that may occupy the same hex. The one exception is the 
vehicular stacking limit whilst In Column [24.102]. Also, some 
beneficial fortification markers such as entrenchments or pillboxes 
might limit how many units may stack inside them [see Playbook].
See also rule 30.2 on deploying platoons and mustering squads.
3.4 U ni t Fa c in g
All long units – guns and vehicles – must at all times maintain a 
particular orientation with respect to the hex they occupy: this is 
termed a “fire arc.” Specifically, the right edge of a gun or vehicle 
counter – the one with the circle or triangle fire arc symbol – must 
always be oriented parallel to a single hexside of the hex it occupies. 
In this manner, the unit’s “front fire arc” and “flank fire arc” are 
defined as shown in the diagram below.
Infantry have no fire arcs and may attack in any direction without 
penalty.
See rules 31.1, 34.13 and 35.2 for details on how fire arcs affect 
advancing, fire attacks and movement, respectively. 
Fire Arcs
FRONT
FIRE ARC
FLANK
FIRE ARC

4. C o m m a nd M a r k e r s
4.1 Ava il a b l e C o m m a nd
At the start of every game, Com-
mand markers allotted to each 
player are placed in their respective 
(color-coded) Available Command 
box, located on the Track Display. 
Command markers are also placed 
in the Available Command box when entering play as reinforcements. 
Command markers should always have their "Mission" side face 
up when occupying an Available Command box. All of a player’s 
available Command is eligible to be placed on the map as desired.
4.2 P l a c in g Ava il a b l e C o m m a nd
A player may, at any time, place any number of his available Command 
into one or more hexes of the map. While a Command occupies a 
map hex it is no longer considered “available” and is instead “active.” 
Command are always placed on the map initially with their “Mission” 
side face up. At the end of every game turn, all Mission Command 
on the map are flipped to their “Tactical” side (after existing Tactical 
Command are reset to the Pending box [21.12d]). 
PLAY HINT: Placement of available Command is usually – but 
not always – done by the active player just after announcing an 
order but prior to activating units, or by the inactive player just 
before making an Op Fire or Return Fire attack.
4.3 A c t i v e C o m m a nd
4.3 1 C o m m a n d R a diu s
All friendly active Com-
mand have a “Command 
Radius” equal to that 
side's current Command 
& Control level [1.6]. A 
Command Radius is 
counted in hexes radi-
ating outward from 
that marker’s hex (and 
includes it). Command 
Radius is unaffected 
by enemy units, enemy 
Command Radius and 
terrain—a player need 
not trace a "command 
path" or any such device. 
Effect—A Command marker serves to put all friendly units within 
its Command Radius under either "Mission Command” or "Tacti-
cal Command," depending on which side of the marker is currently 
face up. Mission Command trumps Tactical Command for friendly 
units finding themselves under both types. Friendly units outside 
the Command Radius of all friendly active Command markers are 
deemed “Out of Command.”
A side with a Command & Control level of zero still puts all friendly 
units in a Command marker's hex under command.
4.3 2 C o m m a n d B e n e f i t s
A player enjoys two main benefits from his active Command: 
a)	 when he is the active player, the Initiative cost to activate a unit 
for an order is reduced to 1 if that unit is under Tactical Com-
mand, or reduced to 0 if that unit is under Mission Command 
[30.1]. Mission Command trumps Tactical Command.
b) 	when he is the inactive player, the Initiative cost to perform 
Return Fire or Op Fire with a unit is reduced to 1 if that unit is 
under Tactical Command, or reduced to 0 if that unit is under 
Mission Command [34.3 & 35.6]. Mission Command trumps 
Tactical Command. 
Command markers have "0" on their Mission side and "1" on their 
Tactical side as a visual reminder of these capabilities.
Command can also allow units to deploy or muster [30.2] and can 
increase the chances of rallying [36].
4.3 3 C o m m a n d M a r k e r M o v e m e n t
Whenever a unit moves or advances, an active Command marker 
sharing its hex may accompany it. Units may "pick up" and "drop 
off" friendly Command at any point along their route. A Command 
marker that exits the map along with a friendly unit is also removed 
from the game (place it back in the countermix).
4.3 4 C o m m a n d M a r k e r Re m o v al 
Voluntar y—An active Command marker can never be voluntarily 
removed from the map.
Involuntary: Capture—If an active Command marker ever finds 
itself in the same hex as an enemy unit and no friendly unit is also 
present, the Command is immediately eliminated and placed back 
in the countermix.
DESIGN NOTE: Perhaps an officer was killed, wounded or cap-
tured; or he and his command team could be (temporarily) running 
for their lives; or maybe they are cowering in a ditch, out of touch 
with their subordinate units. This effect could also represent the 
cutting of a phone line; the loss of a HQ runner; dwindling supplies 
of ammunition; etc. The key thing here is that a Command marker 
isn’t necessarily a single commanding officer: it often simply repre-
sents a side’s local command & control capability in abstract form.
Involuntar y: Other—At the end of each turn Active Command 
can also be eliminated by enemy Sniper Activity [21.12c] or sent to 
the Pending Command box [21.12d].
4.3 5 C o m m a n d A s M a r k e r s 
Command are markers – not units – and thus ignore terrain, cannot 
be affected by fire attacks or barrages, do not need to be activated, etc.
4.4 P e ndin g C o m m a nd
At the end of every turn, all Command markers in a player's Pending 
Command box are shifted into their Available Command box, then 
all of a player's active Tactical Command are sent to their Pending 
Command box [21.12d]. "Pending" Command markers cannot be 
used for any purpose.

5. H i t M a r k e r s
Note—Before play begins, all hit 
markers should be placed into an 
opaque cup so that they may be drawn 
at random when called for during play.
5.1 P l a c e m e n t
A hit marker is placed on a fresh unit if it suffers a hit during a fire 
attack or barrage. On vehicle units, a hit marker is placed with its 
“tank” silhouette side face up; on infantry and gun units, place the 
hit marker “soldier” silhouette side face up.
5.2 E f f e c t s
A unit with a hit marker that suffers another hit is eliminated. A unit 
with a hit marker on it can be prevented from firing and/or moving 
depending on the specific hit marker attached:
The circled F symbol indicates that the hit unit cannot fire 
(including assault, melee, Return Fire and Op Fire).
The circled M symbol indicates that the hit unit cannot move, 
advance, pivot, or spend MPs for a special action.
A hit marker with both of these symbols imposes both restrictions 
on the attached unit. A hit marker with neither of these symbols 
imposes neither restriction on the attached unit. 
Though the unit would still be in imminent danger of elimination 
should it be hit again before the hit marker is removed.
5.3 R e m ova l
A hit marker remains on a unit until the unit is eliminated, abandoned 
[25], exits the map, or rallies [36]. Place removed hit markers back 
in the draw cup for immediate reuse.
6. S i gh t in g M a r k e r s
Sighting markers represent possible locations of hidden 
units and/or fortifications.
6.1 P l a c e m e n t
Some scenarios will assign one or both players a specific number of 
Sighting markers. The contents of the reverse side of each Sighting 
marker – hidden forces, a false sighting or a fortification, for example 
– will be identified within the scenario special rules. If allotted, Sight-
ing markers are set up within hexes of the map in the same manner 
as the player’s other forces.
6.2 P r e s e n c e
Despite being markers and not units, all Sighting markers have a 
morale stat of 13. The sole effect of this inherent morale is to allow 
Sighting markers to suffer attacks by barrage and by HE direct fire 
attacks as if they were units. 
Panicked
Pinned
?
6.3 R e v e a l in g
A Sighting marker can be revealed by its owning player at any time 
(for example, in order to set up and then immediately activate a hidden 
unit [6.5]). Otherwise, a Sighting marker must be revealed if: 
a)	 it is hit by a fire attack or barrage against its hex; or
b)	 an enemy unit occupies the same or an adjacent hex.
6.4 C o n t e n t s
When a Sighting marker is revealed, flip it to its reverse side: 
a)	 If the reverse side is “False Sighting” then the Sight-
ing marker was a dummy position and is removed 
from play.
b)	 If the reverse side is a harmful fortification (roadblock or wire, for 
example) the owning player keeps that fortification marker in the 
hex. If a unit now finds itself in an impassable hex, immediately 
eliminate the unit.
You generally want to keep your units away from your own 
harmful fortifications before they are revealed.
c)	 If the reverse side is “Hidden” then it was hiding one or more units 
(possibly inside a beneficial fortification, such as entrenchments 
or a pillbox) which are immediately set up in that hex.
6.5 H idd e n F o rc e s
6.5 1 I d e n t i f y in g Hi d d e n F o r c e s
When a Sighting marker is revealed as a “Hidden” 
marker, it will have a letter designation (“Hidden: 
A” in the example to the right). Each such Hidden 
marker matches a large “Hiding” marker sporting the same letter 
designation (shown below). During setup, the player in control of a 
Hidden marker will place one or more of his allotted units (possibly 
inside beneficial fortifications) underneath the matching Hiding 
marker—thus indicating where on the map those pieces will appear.
6.5 2 P l a c in g Hi d d e n F o r c e s
Once a revealed Hidden marker’s 
matching Hiding marker has 
been identified, the latter’s con-
tents need to be set up on map. 
The owning player takes all units 
and fortifications underneath that 
Hiding marker and places them into the Hidden marker’s hex. Both 
the Hidden and Hiding markers are then removed from the game. 
Units and fortifications with fire arcs may be placed facing in any 
direction desirable (this information need not be recorded ahead of 
time). Revealed pieces are unaffected by any attack versus the Sight-
ing marker that revealed them.
Pieces underneath the oversized Hiding markers are to be kept out 
of view of the opponent and may only be inspected by the control-
ling player.
False
False
Hidden:
Hidden:
Hiding: A
Hiding: A

7. F o r t if i c at io n M a r k e r s
"Harmful" fortifications are always found on the reverse side of Sight-
ing markers. "Beneficial" fortifications exist separately on hexagonal 
counters. Fortifications are normally only set up at the start of a 
scenario, though they may begin play hidden via Sighting markers 
(harmful) or if a hidden unit is stacked inside (beneficial). Fortifica-
tions can be eliminated during play by various assets or when their 
hex is struck by barrage.
Fortifications specific to each game in the series can be found within 
its Playbook.
8. S m ok e M a r k e r s
8.1 P l a c e m e n t
Smoke markers can enter play via various assets and special actions. 
Smoke will usually be placed on the 
map on its full-strength (5) side. The 
reverse side of each Smoke marker is 
its depleted (2) side.
8.2 E f f e c t s
A Smoke marker increases the hindrance to 5 (if full strength) or 2 (if 
depleted) for any fire attack – direct or melee – into, out of, within, 
or through its hex, including along the hexsides.
8.3 R e m ova l
At the end of each turn, all depleted Smoke markers on the map 
are removed then all full strength Smoke flip to their depleted side 
[21.12b].
S m o k e A s Te r r ain — E f f e c t s S um m a r y :
Move Cost: use other terrain in the hex
Cover: use other terrain in the hex
LOS: 2 or 5 hindrance into, out of, within, or through
9. Fat e C a r d
Each scenario will indicate which player begins the game in posses-
sion of the Fate card.
The Fate card is never part of a player’s hand (only asset cards). 
The Fate card should simply be kept face up in front of the owning 
player for ease of reference during play.
9.1 R e - Ro l l
At any time during the game, the player currently in control of the 
Fate card may choose to cancel all effects of the last single die or 
dice roll to have been made, causing it to be re-rolled. This decision 
must be made prior to any results of that roll being implemented.
SMOKE
SMOKE
This includes a roll when reseeding the Order Matrix, in which 
case only that one die is re-rolled, not all ten rolls.
When a player calls for a re-roll in this manner, he must give the Fate 
card to his opponent, then the re-roll is performed. The opponent 
will then control the Fate card unless and until he himself performs 
a re-roll option, thus passing it back to the first player. This use of 
the Fate card can occur an unlimited number of times during the 
game—even during the same die roll.
9.2 T i e G a m e
If a scenario ends in a tie – for example, 0 VPs after sudden death 
– the player with the Fate card breaks the tie and wins the game.
The Fate card thus acts as a sort of balancing mechanism to temper 
those occasional wild strings of luck inherent in any game with dice. 
Fate will generally pass back and forth between the two players as 
the fortunes of war play out, though this isn’t mandatory—it is 
possible, however unlikely, that a player could refrain from using 
it throughout an entire game.
10. A s s e t C a r d s
Asset cards allow the players various forms of orders and reactions, 
be it artillery, air support or engineering functions, to name a few. 
Assets may be assigned at the start of the game and can be drawn 
during the game via the various Support orders [38]. 
Assets are one of two types: ORDER or REACTION. Some asset cards 
might contain two orders, two reactions, or both an order and a reac-
tion—such an asset can be played for only one of the two abilities 
each time it is played. There are three ways in which a player may 
use an asset currently in his hand:
a)	 Order—An asset order may only be played by the player with 
the Initiative announcing an "Asset" order [33]. 
b)	 Reaction—Asset reactions may be played by either player at any 
time so long as the condition or prerequisite listed on the card 
itself is met. Multiple reactions may be conducted in response 
to the same game situation. All effects of consecutively-played 
reactions are cumulative. If both players wish to perform one or 
more reactions at the same time, the inactive player must perform 
all of his reactions before the active player may play his first one.
c)	 Enabler—Oftentimes an asset must be discarded as the “cost” 
to perform a unit’s special action [3.27 and Playbook]. When this 
occurs, the asset is placed directly atop the player’s discard pile 
and any printed effect of that asset is ignored.
In the unlikely event that either asset deck depleted, shuffle its discard 
pile to form a new draw pile.

CO R E RU L E S — MECH A NIC S
2 0. S equ e n c e of P l ay
A game of Fighting Formations consists of a series of turns. Each 
turn is broken up into ten "orders" which are performed by both 
players in a variable sequence [30]. Each scenario assigns one player 
as starting with "the Initiative.” A player has the Initiative when, on 
the Initiative Track: 
●the Initiative pawn is on his side of the “0” space; or
●The Initiative pawn occupies the “0” space and he is in possession 
of the Fate card.
The player with the Initiative will perform a single order. Every order 
costs a certain amount of Initiative to perform, depending on which 
row the order cube was removed from. At the end of every order 
players check to see if the turn ends [21.12]. Then, whichever player 
has the Initiative – which could be the same player – performs the 
next order. Orders are thus performed over and over by both players 
until a sudden death roll or other occurrence ends the game [21.3].
2 0.1 O r d e r C a pa b il i t y
In FF, no player may give an order without the removal of an order 
cube from the Order Matrix. There is no limit to the number of 
consecutive orders a player may perform so long as that player retains 
the Initiative. Orders do not need to be predesignated—they are 
announced and executed one at a time. When retaining the Initiative 
a player may observe the results of one order before deciding which 
order to give next. A player may "pass" and do nothing instead of 
performing a chosen order—though the initiative cost for removal 
of the order cube is still paid.
The different orders that may be given by a player are explained 
in rules 31–38.
2 0.2 R e a c t i o n C a pa b il i t y
Reactions such as Return Fire [34.3], Op Fire [35.6] or those found 
on assets can be performed whenever a player deems them appropri-
ate provided the prerequisite, if any, given for that reaction is met.
The different asset reactions that may be taken by a player are 
explained in the Assets section of this game's Playbook.
2 1. G a m e T im e
2 1.1 T u r n M a r k e r
2 1.11 P l a c e m e n t
Each scenario will indicate on which space of the Time Track (located 
on the Track Display) the Turn marker is to be placed.
2 1.12 A d v a n c e m e n t
A turn ends – and the Turn marker is advanced one space forward 
along the Time Track – at the end of any order in which there are 
exactly zero cubes remaining on the Order Matrix. 
Immediately after advancing the Turn marker, normal play pauses 
and the following steps are executed in the order shown:
a)	 Sudden Death—The triggering player makes a sudden death 
roll if appropriate [21.22].
Then, if the game did not end due to sudden death, continue:
b)	 Smoke Depletion—Remove all depleted (“2”) Smoke markers 
from the map, placing them back into the countermix; then flip 
all full strength (“5”) Smoke markers on the map to their depleted 
side.
c)	 Sniper Activity— The player whose side of the Sniper marker 
is currently face up counts the total number of active enemy 
Command markers, selects one of them, then rolls 1d10:
◦◦If the result is greater than the count, there is no effect. 
◦◦If the result is less than or equal to the count, that opponent 
must choose one: either eliminate the chosen Command marker 
(placing it back into the countermix); or permanently lower his 
Command & Control level by one, to a minimum of 0.
d)	 Regroup—In this step players first move all Command markers 
in their Pending Command box to their Available Command box 
(Mission side face up). Then remove all active Tactical Command 
markers from the map, placing them in their Pending Command 
box. Finally, flip all active Mission Command markers to their 
Tactical side.
e)	 Reinforcements—If there are any scheduled reinforcements 
for the new turn (as indicated in the scenario’s Deployment box), 
the owning player sets them up according to the instructions 
found in the scenario. Any reinforcement Command markers are 
placed in their Available Command box (Mission side face up).
f)	 Reseed—Either player rolls 1d10 one at a time for each of the 
ten order cubes. Place each cube into the box on the row of the 
Order Matrix matching the die result.
Once the steps above have been completed in their entirety, normal 
play resumes from wherever it left off.
This sequence is shown in abbreviated form on the Track Display 
for ease of reference during play.

2 1.2 S udd e n D e at h M a r k e r
2 1. 2 1 P l a c e m e n t
Each scenario will indicate on which space of the Time Track the 
Sudden Death marker is to be placed.
2 1. 2 2 P r o c e d u r e
Whenever the Turn marker advances into or beyond the space occu-
pied by the Sudden Death marker, the triggering player rolls 2d10. 
If the result is less than the number in the space currently occupied 
by the Turn marker (not the Sudden Death marker), the game imme-
diately ends. Otherwise, play proceeds as normal. 
PLAY HINT: This roll can be re-rolled via use of the Fate card.
2 1.3 G a m e E nd
Via Sudden Death
If a sudden death roll ends the game, the player with the higher VP 
total – that is, the VP marker is on his side of the 0 space – wins the 
game. If the VP marker is in the 0 space, the player holding the Fate 
card breaks the tie and wins the game.
If VP totals are irrelevant to the scenario being played, the scenario’s 
specific Victory Conditions will instruct the players as to how to 
determine the winner.
Alternate Game End
In addition to or in place of sudden death, a scenario’s specific Vic-
tory Conditions may sometimes prescribe an alternate way for the 
game to end.
It is possible, however unlikely, for one or both sides to end up with 
no units on the map prior to sudden death. If this occurs, the game 
doesn't necessarily end: the player having no units would still spend 
initiative for orders as normal—though, with the exception of draw-
ing and playing assets, he would pretty much always have to pass.
2 2. V i c t o ry C o ndi t io n s
A player will usually win the game by having more VPs than his 
opponent when the game ends [21.3]. VPs are generally earned in 
one of three ways:
●elimination of enemy units;
●exiting of friendly units off a particular map edge;
●control of mapboard objectives.
2 2.1 E l i m in at i o n V i c t o ry P o in t s
In most scenarios, when a unit is eliminated the opponent is awarded 
a certain number of VPs for it, as described in the scenario’s Victory 
Conditions. Adjust the VP marker accordingly whenever VPs are 
gained in this manner.
Note that a hit platoon that is hit again is considered “eliminated” 
even though it is replaced by two squads—one of that platoon's three 
squads was, in effect, eliminated.
2 2.2 E x i t V i c t o ry P o in t s
A unit may never exit the map without a scenario’s Victory Conditions 
or Special Rules specifically allowing it. If allowed, a unit activated 
to Advance [31], Assault [32] or Move [35] may exit off the map (at 
a MP cost of 1) along the specified edge/hex(es). Each unit exited 
in this way immediately earns its owning player a number of VPs 
equal to that stipulated in the scenario’s Victory Conditions. Adjust 
the VP marker accordingly whenever VPs are gained in this manner.
Exited units are placed back in the countermix, permanently removed 
from play. Place any hit marker that may have been on an exited unit 
back into the draw cup.
2 2.3 O b j e c t i v e V i c t o ry P o in t s
Sometimes one or more hexes on a map will be 
outlined in red. Such hexes are termed “objectives” 
and are worth one or more VPs to one or both 
sides, depending on the scenario’s Victory 
Conditions.
Control Markers—When objec-
tives matter, the double-sided Control 
markers are used to indicate which 
side currently controls each mapboard 
objective. 
Procedure—During setup, a scenario will specify which objec-
tives begin under each player’s control. In some cases, objectives 
may begin the game controlled by neither side: these should not 
contain any Control marker. Otherwise, once play commences, the 
last player to have solely occupied an objective with a friendly unit 
should place/flip the Control marker within that objective to match 
the faction he is commanding.
2 3. L in e of S i gh t (L O S)
2 3.1 L O S C h e c k s
Generally, a unit in one hex must be able to see a unit in another hex 
in order to fire at it. Mapboard terrain and units inside certain forti-
fications can affect this LOS. A LOS “check” is made by stretching 
a string taut between the center dot within the “sighter’s” hex and 
the center dot of the “target’s” hex. If the string touches the physical 
depiction of a terrain obstacle or hindrance in an intervening hex, 
that LOS is blocked [23.2] or hindered [23.3], respectively. 
A LOS check may be made at any time by either player.
An obstacle or hindrance that is within the sighting or target hex 
will not affect LOS. (exception: Smoke [8].)
LOS is reciprocal: if unit A can see unit B, then B can also see A. 
Units – friendly or enemy – in an intervening hex do not block or 
hinder LOS in any way.
L40
L41

2 3.2 O b s ta c l e s & L O S
Some terrain [24] is noted as being an “obstacle.” A unit in one hex 
can’t see a unit in another hex if the LOS between them is blocked 
by an obstacle. 
2 3.3 H ind r a n c e s & L O S
Some terrain is too sparse or too low to be considered a complete 
obstacle to LOS. Such terrain is termed a “hindrance” because it 
hinders fire traced through it, making it harder to hit enemy units 
with fire attacks.
2 3.3 1 F i r e A t t a c k s & Hin d r a n c e s
Any fire attack traced through an intervening hindrance will have 
its default hindrance of “1” [34.141] increased to the number listed 
in that terrain’s LOS column of the Terrain Chart.
EXAMPLE: A direct fire attack made through rough terrain will 
have a hindrance of 2 instead of 1.
2 3.3 2 H in d r a n c e M o di f ie r s
Hindrances – including the default “1” – are not cumulative: always 
use the single largest applicable hindrance.
EXAMPLE: An infantry unit fires at an enemy gun three hexes 
away. Both hexes between them contain rough terrain. Instead of 
the default 1 the fire attack will suffer a hindrance value of 2 for 
the rough hindrance, not 4 for both rough hexes. If one or both 
of the two intervening hexes contained a “5” Smoke marker, the 
hindrance would be 5 instead of 2.
2 3.3 3 S m o k e H in d r a n c e s
A Smoke hindrance [8] is considered to fill the entirety of the hex that 
its marker occupies, including its hexsides. In other words, a LOS 
traced through any portion of a hex containing Smoke – including 
directly along one of its hexsides – is hindered by that marker.
The physical placement of a Smoke marker within a hex is unim-
portant: Smoke is an “inherent” terrain, and is considered to affect 
the entire hex – including all six hexsides – as long as it remains.
Furthermore, Smoke hinders any LOS traced into or out of or within 
its hex, not just through it like printed mapboard hindrances.
Continuing the example from 23.32, if the infantry unit’s hex con-
tained a “5” Smoke, the hindrance would be raised to 5.
2 4. T e r r a in
2 4.1 T y p e s & F e at u r e s
One of the player aid cards is a Terrain Chart showing stats for the 
different terrain in the game. Terrain “Types” are shown on this 
Chart with green backgrounds. Terrain “Features” are shown with 
tan backgrounds and generally only serve to modify the Terrain Type 
they share a hex with. The Terrain Chart also lists the various terrain 
in hierarchical order—that is, if a hex contains two or more Terrain 
Types, the one closest to the top of the chart takes precedence. 
EXAMPLE: If a hex with rough terrain has some of that terrain 
spill into an adjacent hex containing a building, that second hex is 
a “building hex” for all purposes, not a “building-rough hex” or any 
such conglomeration. This also means that a hex is an “open ground 
hex” only if it contains none of the terrain types shown above it on 
the Terrain Chart (those with their text on a green background)—it 
could contain any of the terrain features shown below it (those on 
a tan background) and still be an “open ground hex,” albeit with 
some sort of modification.
The Terrain Type of every hex on every map is thus defined by which-
ever Terrain Type both occupies that hex and is positioned nearest the 
top of the Terrain Chart—even if that terrain doesn’t dominate the 
hex or share space with the hex’s center dot. Roads can also occupy 
a hex, usually modifying a unit’s movement therein. Smoke markers 
[8] also function as terrain to a certain degree.
2 4.2 M ov e C o s t s
Each terrain lists three different “Move Costs” – one each for leg, track 
and wheel – which are color-coded to match the square surrounding 
each unit’s Speed. A unit will use only the move cost associated with 
its defined mode of transport. 
A terrain’s move cost is the amount of MPs a unit must expend to 
move [35] into that hex or across that hexside. The Advance order 
[31] does not require MP expenditures and thus terrain move costs 
are ignored when performing that order.
2 4.3 C ov e r
Each terrain lists a “cover.” Cover benefits each unit occupying that 
terrain in the following manner:
●Cover is added to a unit’s Fire Defense roll when fired at [34.15].
●Cover is added to a unit’s target number when attacked by a 
barrage [26].
●Cover greater than 0 aids in Rally attempts [36]. 
Cover is never cumulative, however, so a unit’s owner must choose 
only one instance of cover to apply if more than one is present (for 
example, a beneficial fortification marker occupying a building hex).
2 4.4 L in e Of S i gh t
Each terrain lists whether it is an “obstacle,” a “hindrance” or “clear.” 

●Terrain obstacles block same-level LOS. Obstacles usually create 
one blind hex [24.53] to a higher-level observer.
●Terrain hindrances serve to increase the value of the default 
hindrance [34.141] for same-level fire attacks traced through them.
●Clear terrain has no effect on LOS. 
2 4.5 E l e vat i o n
The standard buff colored open ground hex 
in FF is said to be at level “0” or “ground 
level.” Hills can then be thought of as being 
at levels 1 (tan), 2 (light brown), 3 (medium 
brown) or 4 (dark brown), while a depression 
can be thought of as being at level -1 (green). 
Therefore, a unit on a hill is above any terrain 
occupying either a ground- or depression-level 
hex or any hill hex of a lower level. The level at 
which a hex’s center dot lies is its actual level 
when multiple levels appear in a hex (hex I14, 
at right, is a level 3 hill hex). A hill or depression 
hex functions exactly like any other ground 
level hex except as modified below.
2 4.5 1 C r e s t s & L O S
24.511 Crest Lines—A hex showing more 
than one level is termed a “Crest” hex. The level 
at which a Crest hex’s center dot lies is its actual 
level. In every Crest hex, the physical edge of 
each hill or depression is termed a “Crest Line.”
24.512 Vertical LOS—A unit may only trace a LOS into the 
initial Crest hex of each level above it. Likewise, a unit may trace a 
LOS to a hex at a lower level only if that LOS never passes through 
a Crest Line of equal or greater height in an intervening hex.
EXAMPLE: Unit A on a hill can see unit B at a lower level only if 
the LOS from unit A both: crosses a Crest Line before it crosses a 
hexside; and never again crosses a Crest Line of the same or higher 
level.
EXAMPLE: A unit on a level 2 hill can see past an intervening 
level 2 hill only to another hill hex of level 2, 3 or 4. If that inter-
vening hill were instead level 3, the target hex would have to be at 
level 4 – and also be a Crest hex – to be seen.
It may help to think of each hill level in FF as a thick, flat pancake; 
or perhaps one layer of a tiered wedding cake.
24.513 Crests as Obstacles—A crest itself blocks LOS traced 
between any two hexes of lower level.
EXAMPLE: A unit on a level 1 hill cannot see past an intervening 
level 2 hill to another level 1 hill hex.
2 4.5 2 C r e s t s & O b s t a c le s
The LOS to or from a hill hex is blocked only if it clearly touches 
any part of the physical depiction of a terrain obstacle at the same 
or higher level as that hill hex. In other words, LOS to or from a hill 
I14
I15
I16
Cemet
K10
hex is not blocked by obstacles that lie at a lower level (exception: 
see blind hexes, below).
EXAMPLE: A unit on a level 1 hill can see past (over) an intervening 
building at level 0 to another unit on a distant level 1 hill. How-
ever, if that building was also on a hill the LOS would be blocked.
2 4.5 3 Blin d H exe s
A unit can see into a lower-level obstacle hex, as normal, but cannot 
see into the next hex beyond it if that next hex is also at or lower than 
the obstacle hex’s level. In other words, a lower-level obstacle creates 
a one-hex blind zone behind it to an observer at a higher level—all 
hexes beyond this blind zone are visible from the hill (barring further 
obstacles along the way).
EXAMPLE: A unit at ground level can see past a depression-level 
building except into the depression hex directly behind it. Conversely, 
a unit on a level 1 hill could see past an intervening level 1 building 
to a unit at level 2 or higher unless that building was in the first 
intervening hex along that LOS.
2 4.5 4 C r e s t s & Hin d r a n c e s
Any mapboard hindrance terrain at a lower level does not hinder LOS 
to or from a higher level. A hindrance on a hill does hinder LOS 
between two other hill hexes of the same level as that hindrance. 
A Smoke marker, however, always hinders LOS through its hex, 
regardless of the sighter’s or target’s level.
DESIGN NOTE: The hindrance that a Smoke marker creates is 
considered to be at a height sufficient enough to affect any possible 
LOS that can be represented in the game.
Note that the above crest rules are based upon the premise that in 
FF each crest level is taller than a mapboard obstacle, and that every 
mapboard obstacle is taller than a mapboard hindrance. This isn't 
always true in the real world, of course, but functions well rules-wise.
2 4.5 5 U p hill M o v e m e n t
When entering a hex that is at a higher level than the one it is leaving, 
a moving unit must expend: 
●+1 MP per elevation change if using leg movement; or
●+3 MP per elevation change if using track or wheel movement.
There is no MP modifier when moving downhill.
EXAMPLE: A tracked unit moving from a level -1 depression hex 
into an adjacent level 1 hill hex must expend +6 MPs.
EXAMPLE: A leg unit moving from a level 1 hill hex containing a 
building to a level 2 hill hex containing a building must expend 3 
MPs (2 for the building plus 1 for the change in level). The converse 
downhill move would cost only 2 MP.
2 4.5 6 H ei g h t A d v a n t a g e
A direct fire attack suffers -2 FP if the target hex is at a higher level 
than the firing unit. Conversely, a direct fire attack gains +2 FP if 
the target hex is at a lower level than the firing unit. 
-1

2 4.6 O p e n Gro u nd
Open ground is the default terrain 
type for all games in the series. It has 
the following stats: 
Leg Move Cost: 1
Track Move Cost: 1
Wheel Move Cost: 2
Cover: 0; or -1 (negative one) if the unit is currently activated for 
a Move or Assault order.
LOS: clear
2 4.7 ro u gh
This catch-all terrain represents a 
diverse set of ground effects such as 
brush, light woods, scrub, debris, etc. 
It has the following stats: 
Leg Move Cost: 2
Track Move Cost: 2
Wheel Move Cost: 3
Cover: 1
LOS: 2 hindrance
2 4.8 Ro a d
This is the default means of rapid 
movement for all games in the series. 
Roads have the following stats and 
game effects: 
Leg Move Cost: 1
Track Move Cost: ½
Wheel Move Cost: ¼ 
Road Movement—These three move costs assume the unit is 
traveling along the road depiction (that is, it crossed a road hexside as 
it entered the hex); otherwise, use the move cost of the other terrain 
in the hex and/or on the hexside crossed. 
Cover: Use other terrain in the hex.
LOS: Clear if directly along the road depiction; otherwise use the 
other terrain inside the hex.
J17
J18
N2
N3
K19
K20
2 4.9 B uil din g
This is the default terrain for most 
any type of man-made structure or 
other built-up area. It has the fol-
lowing stats: 
Leg Move Cost: 2
Track Move Cost: Impassable if 
the hex’s center dot lies atop a build-
ing (unless entering/exiting along a road [24.8]); otherwise 2 if the 
hex’s center dot is not on a building.
Wheel Move Cost: Impassable if the hex’s center dot lies atop a 
building (unless entering/exiting along a road [24.8]); otherwise 3 if 
the hex’s center dot is not on a building.
The building hex pictured above would be impassable to tracked 
and wheeled units.
Cover: 4
LOS: Obstacle; creates one blind hex [24.53]
2 4.9 1 Ve hi c le s & B uil din g s
Vehicles cannot cross any hexside that is entirely covered by building 
artwork. Vehicles must always be placed In Column while occupying 
any building hex, however briefly [24.10].
A vehicle is not actually entering the buildings themselves but instead 
maneuvering around and between them within the hex.
2 4.10 V e h i c l e s In C o l u m n
Some terrain (building or woods, for example) requires 
a vehicle unit be placed “In Column” when entered. 
Some games in the FF series may also have terrain that 
is always impassable to vehicles (such as marsh): a vehicle 
can enter (and subsequently leave) such a hex only as long as it travels 
along a road and is placed In Column while in the hex.
2 4.10 1 C olum n P l a c e m e n t
Being In Column is signified by the placement of a Column marker 
atop the vehicle or stack of vehicles. A Column marker is placed the 
instant a vehicle enters any hex requiring it (before any Op Fire or 
other reaction occurs in that hex). 
2 4.10 2 C olum n E f f e c t s
There is a per-hex stacking limit of 1 vehicle platoon or 3 vehicle 
squads In Column, which can never be exceeded. This stacking limit 
is enforced at all times (even during movement). Infantry and guns 
that also happen to be in the hex – which do not themselves need to 
be In Column – do not count against this stacking limit.
EXAMPLE: A vehicle squad is In Column in a building hex. A 
vehicle platoon –friendly or enemy – cannot enter that hex as it would 
create an overstacked hex. The platoon would have to first deploy 
then move only one or two of the resulting squads into that building 
hex; or the vehicle already in the hex would first have to vacate it.
G8
G9
COLUMN

While a vehicle unit is In Column, it has the following effects:
●It suffers -1D when firing in melee.
●Opposing units gain +1D when firing at it in melee.
●Any beneficial cover that would have been afforded it is reduced to 0.
A vehicle In Column may pivot normally.
2 4.10 3 C o l u m n Re m o v al
Once placed, a Column marker may only be removed at the instant 
the vehicle or stack of vehicles enters a hex not requiring Column 
status (before any Op Fire or other reaction occurs in the hex entered).
Additional terrain specific to each game in the series is described 
in detail in that game’s Playbook. Terrain effects are also shown in 
abbreviated form on the Terrain Chart.
25. Abandoning Guns & Vehicles
DESIGN NOTE: In FF, guns and vehicles are considered to always 
be accompanied by an inherent crew of from 2-7 men. If a player 
deems it appropriate given the overall strategic situation, this crew 
can take infantry form in the following manner.
Just after being activated for an order – after any deploying or mus-
tering, but before performing any activities allowed by that order – a 
gun or vehicle may be “abandoned.” To abandon a squad-sized gun 
or vehicle, remove it from the map (placing it back in the counter-
mix) and replace it in the same hex with a Crew infantry unit of the 
same nationality. To abandon a platoon-sized gun or vehicle, remove 
it from the map and replace it with three same-nationality Crews. 
DESIGN NOTE: There are no Crew platoons in FF as they gener-
ally weren’t trained to operate as such when forced to take on the 
temporary role of straight foot soldiers. A crew abandoning its charge 
would likely high-tail it back to HQ or hide until the fighting was 
over, only very rarely taking an active role in the current battle. The 
horrible stats of this game's infantry crews – coupled with the risk 
of the opponent possibly earning victory points for their subsequent 
elimination – should encourage just this sort of behavior.
In both cases, any hit marker that was on the abandoned gun/vehicle 
unit is placed back in the draw cup. 
The Crew effectively rallies as it abandons its gun or vehicle.
An abandoned gun or vehicle is not considered eliminated, so the 
opponent gains no VPs for their removal should the scenario’s specific 
Victory Conditions normally allow for it. The Crew itself can, of 
course, garner the opponent elimination VPs and/or the owner exit 
VPs, if appropriate to the scenario being played.
A Crew is still considered activated for the order in which its aban-
doned gun/vehicle was activated.
2 6. B a r r a ge
Some units or assets can allow a player to perform a “barrage.” 
Barrages can be from mortars, artillery, aircraft, or other similar 
weaponry. Whenever a barrage is called for, that player performs the 
following five steps in the order shown:
1)	 Spotting
2)	 Accuracy
3)	 Targeting
4)	 Terrain Modifiers
5)	 Impact
Each step is explained in detail below (as well as on the Barrage Table 
player aid for ease of reference during play).
2 6.1 S p o t t in g
To indicate the hex that is to be the intended target 
of the barrage, the active player places the Spotting 
Round (SR) marker into a hex within LOS of his chosen 
“spotter.” A spotter is always a friendly Command 
marker currently on the map unless the asset or special 
action specifies otherwise. The SR can be placed into a hex normally 
impassable to units.
2 6.2 A c c u r a c y
Once the SR has been placed, the active player consults the Accuracy 
Grid (located on the Barrage Table player aid) and rolls 1d20. The 
result is the map hex to which the SR is immediately moved—the 
center hex of the diagram is where the SR was placed in step 1; the 
“1” hex within the diagram always points towards the “1” hexrow of 
the map(s) being used.
2 6. 2 1 O f f- M a p
If the SR errs off the map it is removed with no further effect and 
the barrage ends (steps 3-5 are skipped).
2 6. 2 2 P r e - plo t t e d F ir e
Some barrage assets allow the active player to give up the Fate card to 
his opponent in exchange for a larger modifier to the accuracy roll. 
In such a case, if the acting player is in possession of the Fate card 
he is not forced to give it up: the benefit is entirely optional but the 
decision must be made before the accuracy roll is made.
2 6. 2 3 S m o k e B a r r a g e s
Some barrage assets allow the active player to place Smoke (a “smoke 
barrage”) instead of conducting a bombardment with the intent of 
inflicting casualties. If the active player chose smoke in this manner, 
he places a full-strength Smoke marker into the hex containing the 
SR as well as in the six adjacent hexes. The barrage is then considered 
finished (steps 3-5 are skipped).
2 6. 2 4 I m p a c t B a r r a g e s
If a barrage is not a smoke barrage, it is an impact barrage. The Barrage 
Table is split into two types of impact barrages: Aircraft and Artillery.
For an artillery barrage, the hex into which the SR finally lands 
becomes the center hex of its impact area—in other words, the SR’s 
hex and each adjacent hex will be bombarded.
Spotting
Round

For an aircraft barrage, the single occupied hex closest to the hex into 
which the SR finally lands becomes its impact area. “Occupied” is 
defined as any hex containing at least one unit or Sighting marker 
(friendly or enemy). If more than one such hex is equidistant, the 
barraging player chooses which will be affected.
2 6.3 Ta rg e t in g
Referencing the Barrage Table (on the player aid), the active player 
locates the name of the asset played along the left hand side of the 
table. He then selects one unit, Sighting marker or fortification in 
an affected hex and finds its name or relevant stat along the top of 
the table.
Don’t worry if the affected hex(es) contain lots of targets: you’ll get 
to each of them in turn.
Locate the number at the intersection of these two names: this is the 
“target number” needed to hit that particular piece. A dash ("–") 
instead of a number indicates no possibility of the barrage inflicting 
harm on that particular piece: move directly on to the next piece.
2 6.4 T e r r a in M odif i e r s
If the targeted piece is a unit or Sighting marker, add its cover to the 
target number (fortifications themselves are never affected by cover: 
either the hex’s or their own).
Note however that many fortifications provide a higher cover value 
for their occupants when targeted by a barrage as opposed to direct 
fire. See the Playbook for details.
Some terrain will have further beneficial or detrimental effects on a 
barrage’s target number. See the Barrage Table for details.
2 6.5 I m pa c t
Once a modified target number vs the chosen piece is determined, 
the active player rolls 2d20:
●If the roll is less than the final target number, the barrage has 
no effect on that piece.
●If the roll is greater than or equal to the final target number, 
the piece is hit:
◦◦If a fresh unit, attach a random hit marker to it [5.1];
◦◦If a hit unit, eliminate it [3.31];
◦◦If a Sighting marker, reveal it [6.4];
◦◦If a fortification, eliminate it.
2 6.6 B o m b a r dm e n t
Barrages will affect all units, Sighting markers and fortifications 
within their impact area (usually seven hexes for artillery; one hex 
for aircraft).
If after making an impact roll there remain one or more units, Sight-
ing markers or fortifications in the barrage’s impact area that have 
not yet had an impact roll made for them, repeat steps 3 through 5, 
above, until all such pieces – both enemy and friendly – have either 
been missed or hit by the barrage. EXCEPTION: do not attack the 
two squads resulting from a platoon being eliminated by that same 
barrage.
They’ve suffered enough.

Co r e Ru l e s — OR DER S
3 0. G e n e r a l Ru l e s
To perform – or “give” – an order, a player must have the Initia-
tive—that is, the Initiative marker must currently be:
●on his side of the “0” space; or
●in the “0” space when he is in possession of the Fate card.
To give an order, a player performs the following sequence:
1)	 Remove any one order cube from the Order Matrix.
2)	 Move the Initiative marker a number of spaces towards his opponent 
equal to the number in the box from which the cube was taken.
3)	 Choose to perform either the order listed directly to the left/right 
of the box from which the cube was taken – depending on the 
nationality being commanded by that player – OR any order 
listed below it (that is, one next to a smaller Matrix number).
4)	 Activate units if appropriate for the order [30.1]. Activated units 
may deploy or muster [30.2]. They may then Abandon [25].
5)	 Perform the chosen order [rules 31-38] or choose to do nothing 
("pass"). Opponent may use Return Fire/Op Fire if appropriate 
[34.3 & 35.6]. Unactivate units as they complete their activities.
6)	 Opponent removes any Spent markers from his units.
7)	 Check for possible end of turn [21.12].
An announced order must be performed in its entirety before the 
next order can be given (by either player).
Remember that Available Command may be placed on the map 
by either or both players at any time during the above sequence.
3 0.1 U n i t A c t i vat i o n
For orders involving unit participation, there are three ways to activate 
units for that order:
a)	 freely activate any number of friendly units currently under Mis-
sion Command [4.31]; and/or
b)	 activate any number of friendly units currently under Tactical Com-
mand [4.31], losing 1 Initiative for each such unit activated; and/or
c)	 activate any number of friendly units currently Out of Command, 
losing 2 Initiative for each such unit activated. 
A unit can’t be activated if it would cause the Initiative marker to 
move beyond the opponent’s “20” space.
Activated units are identified by flipping them to their reverse side 
(with the white stripe).
A unit can be activated for multiple orders each turn.
3 0.2 D e p l oy in g a nd M u s t e r in g
3 0. 2 1 D e plo y
As a friendly platoon is activated for an order – before it or any other 
activated units begin their allowed activities, including Abandon-
ment [25] – it may “deploy” into three like squads. A platoon must 
be under Mission Command or Tactical Command to deploy (Out 
of Command units can't deploy). 
To deploy an activated platoon:
1)	 remove it from the map, placing it back into the countermix;
2)	 retrieve up to three squads from the countermix with the same name 
as the removed platoon and place them into the hex from which 
the platoon was taken (each with the same fire arc, if applicable).
3)	 if the platoon had a hit marker, place it on one of the three squads. 
The other two will deploy fresh—the main reason for deploying.
The resulting squads are still considered activated for the order in 
which the parent platoon was activated.
3 0. 2 2 M u s t e r
As friendly squads are activated for an order – and before they or any 
other activated units begin their allowed activities – they may “muster” 
into a platoon. It takes three squads to muster and all three must: 
●be under Mission Command or Tactical Command (Out of 
Command units can't muster); and
●share the same hex; and
●have the same name; and
●be fresh (no hit markers attached to any of them). 
To muster three activated squads that meet all the above criteria:
1)	 remove them from the map, placing them back into the countermix;
2)	 retrieve a platoon from the countermix with the same name as 
the removed squads and place it into the hex from which the 
squads were taken (with the same fire arc as any of those squads, 
if applicable).
The resulting platoon is still considered activated for the order in 
which the three squads were activated.
3 0.3 U ni t U n a c t i vat io n
As each activated unit finishes its allowed activity(s) – or declines 
to do so, as the case may be – flip the unit back to its unactivated 
side (after any Return Fire or Op Fire by the inactive player [34.3 & 
35.6]). Once all activated units have been unactivated, the order ends.
The various orders are described in detail on the following pages. 
They are presented in alphabetical order for ease of reference.
3 12

3 1. A dva n c e
3 1.1 P ro c e du r e
units [30.1]. An infantry unit activated to Advance can enter a hex 
adjacent to the one it currently occupies, where it must stop. A gun or 
vehicle can only advance into the hex directly in front of it or directly 
behind it, as defined by its fire arc (that is, the hex in the center of 
its front arc or the hex in the center of its flank arc). Advancing guns 
and vehicles may freely change their fire arc either before or after 
advancing into a new hex; never both. Activated guns/vehicles may 
also freely change their fire arc without leaving their hex. Friendly 
Command markers may accompany advancing units.
A unit’s speed as well as terrain move costs are ignored during an 
Advance, though impassable terrain still cannot be entered or crossed.
You only get to go one hex but you are immune to fire attacks.
Hit Units—Units affected by a hit marker with a circled M can’t 
advance.
3 1.2 M e l e e E n t ry & E x i t
An advancing infantry unit (only) may enter or exit an enemy-occupied 
hex. Activated guns and vehicles are prohibited from entering or 
exiting melee during an Advance order.
3 2. A s s a ult
3 2.1 Ge n e r a l Ru l e s
units [30.1]. Activated units can then expend MPs exactly as if they 
were activated for a Move order [35], with two exceptions:
1)	 Units activated for Assault have their printed Speed halved, and 
thus only have half as many MPs to spend. 
Half means half—no rounding.
2)	 An assaulting unit may spend 1 MP to make a fire attack [34]. 
This MP expenditure may only be made once by each activated 
unit, but may be done before, during, after, or instead of that unit 
spending its other available MPs to move. Assaulting units suffer 
-1D when direct firing (that is, they are not in melee). Note that 
this shot is a MP expenditure so the opponent is allowed multiple 
Op Fires in reaction to it [35.6], not a lone Return Fire [34.3].
So an infantry unit with a printed speed of 6 could traverse three 
open ground hexes; or traverse 2 open ground hexes then fire; or enter 
1 open ground hex, fire, then enter another open ground hex; etc. 
In other words, during an Assault order, each activated unit may: 
a) Just move; or
b) Fire then move; or
c) Move then fire then continue moving; or
d) Move then fire; or
e) Just fire.
3 2.2 M e l e e E n t ry & E x i t
An assaulting vehicle unit (only) may enter and/or exit an enemy-
occupied hex. Activated guns and infantry are prohibited from 
entering or exiting melee during an Assault order.
3 2.3 O p p o r t u ni t y F ir e
After each MP expenditure by the active player (including assault 
fire) the inactive player can perform any number of Op Fire attacks 
against the unit/hex in which the expenditure was made [35.6].
3 3. A s s e t
When this order is given, the active player may play up to one Asset 
order from his hand. If the player has no cards in hand, this order is 
forfeit (though the Initiative cost is still paid). Place any played Asset 
card face up atop that player's discard pile.
See this game's Playbook for specific assets and their effects.
3 4. F ir e
units [30.1]. Each activated unit can then perform one fire attack, 
either “direct” if there are no enemy units within its hex or “melee” 
if at least one enemy unit occupies its hex.
Hit Units—Units affected by a hit marker with a circled F can’t fire.
3 4.1 D ir e c t F ir e At ta c k
Each unit activated to fire – and not in melee [34.2] – may take 
one shot at any hex within both its range and LOS; after which it 
becomes unactivated (but see 34.3 Return Fire). Units – friendly or 
enemy – in intervening hexes are not affected by any fire attack pass-
ing through their hex.
To conduct a direct fire attack, perform the following steps in the 
order shown:
1)	 Ammo Type
2)	 Targeting
3)	 Attack Dice
4)	 Attack Total
5)	 Defense Totals
6)	 Hit Results
Each step is explained in detail below (as well as on the Player Aid 
card for ease of reference during play).
3 4.11 A m m o Ty p e
Select one unit to fire. If a unit only has HE FP or only has AP FP, 
that FP must be chosen for the attack. For those units having both 
types of FP, however, the owning player must verbally choose either 
one or the other for the current fire attack. 
That same unit can use the same or different FP later on—earlier 
fire attacks do not “lock in” a unit's mode of fire for subsequent shots.

3 4.12 Ta r g e t in g
Determine the range to the intended target hex by counting the 
number of hexes from the firing unit to that hex—including the 
target hex but excluding the firing piece’s hex. If this range is greater 
than three times the printed range on the firing unit's chosen mode 
of FP (AP or HE), the shot cannot even be attempted.
Direct fire attacks at up to double and triple a unit’s printed range 
are allowed but will be penalized in a later step.
34.121 Targeting Pivot
When targeting, a gun or vehicle with a strict fire arc must now 
be pivoted within its hex, if necessary, in order to bring the target 
within its front fire arc [3.4]. Guns and vehicles with loose fire arcs 
may be pivoted at this time, at their owner's discretion, if doing so 
would bring the target hex into their front fire arc. A targeting pivot 
cannot be made if the firing unit has a hit marker with a circled M.
In other words, you can perform a targeting pivot only if: 
(1) the target hex is currently in the firing unit's flank arc; and 
(2) the pivot brings that hex into the firing unit's front arc.
3 4.13 A t t a c k D i c e
Each direct fire attack begins with a default 2d10. However, the die 
size may increase or decrease 
(auto miss)  2d6  2d8  2d10  2d12  2d20
●-1D if the firing unit is currently activated for an Assault order;
●-1D if the unit is firing at greater than its printed range but less 
than or equal to twice that range (“long” range);
●-2D if the unit is firing at more than double its printed range but 
less than or equal to three times that range (“extreme” range);
●+1D if the unit is firing into an adjacent hex (“short” range);
●-2D if the firing unit is a gun or vehicle that, during targeting, 
pivoted in order to bring the target hex within its front fire arc;
●-1D if the firing unit is a gun or vehicle with a loose fire arc (only) 
that is firing into a hex within its flank fire arc; 
The above modifiers are shown in table form on the Player Aid 
for ease of reference during play.
Multiple modifiers are cumulative. If the net modifier to the attack 
dice is greater than -2D – that is, it would be less than 2d6 – the 
attack is immediately ended with no effect (though any targeting 
pivot contributing to the auto miss does still occur). 
EXAMPLE: A gun that pivots while taking a shot at an adjacent 
hex rolls 2d8: -2D for the pivot (down to d6’s) and +1D for short 
range (back up to d8’s). If the target hex was at extreme range, the 
-4D net modifier would make the shot impossible—the gun still 
performed its free targeting pivot, however, so its next shot will likely 
already be within its front fire arc. In this latter case, if the gun 
was conducting Return Fire or Op Fire [34.3 & 35.6] it would not 
become spent because no attack dice were actually rolled.
3 4.14 A t t a c k To t al
Once the attack dice have been finalized, the player needs to determine 
the shot’s hindrance value before making his attack roll. 
34.141 Determine Hindrance
Every direct fire attack begins with a default hindrance of 1. How-
ever, if the fire attack passes through an intervening hex containing 
hindering terrain at the same level [24.54], the default hindrance will 
be raised to that of the hindering terrain. Alternately, if the fire attack 
enters, leaves or passes through a hex containing a Smoke marker, 
the default hindrance is raised to that listed on the marker. Multiple 
hindrances are not cumulative: only the single largest hindrance 
affecting the fire attack is used.
34.142 Roll Attack Dice
Once the hindrance has been determined, the firing player rolls the 
two attack dice:
●If either or both dice result in a number that is less than or equal 
to the hindrance, the shot misses and the attack is immediately 
ended with no effect on the targeted hex.
●If the shot does not miss, the player adds the sum of the two 
attack dice to the FP of the firing unit (possibly modified by 
elevation—see 24.56): this total becomes the “Attack Total.” 
3 4.15 D e f e n s e To t al s
HE—If the fire attack was designated as HE, both players must make 
Fire Defense rolls – one at a time, active player first – for each of their 
Sighting markers and all of their units with morale in the targeted hex. 
Units having no morale stat are unaffected by HE direct fire attacks.
AP—If the fire attack was designated as AP, both players must make 
Fire Defense rolls – one at a time, active player first – for all of their 
units with armor in the targeted hex. Sighting Markers and units 
having no armor stat are unaffected by AP direct fire attacks.
All Fire Defense rolls for one attack must be made before the next 
attack is announced, even if that same hex will be shot at again.
An affected unit’s defense plus its cover [24.3] is added to a Fire Defense 
roll of 2d10 in order to arrive at a “Defense Total”:
a)	 If the Defense Total is greater than or equal to the Attack Total, 
the unit is unaffected.
The mantra "the last die wins a tie" works for all types of attacks.
b)	 If the Defense Total is less than the Attack Total, the unit is hit. 
For defending units with subscripted defense factors, make sure 
the correct defense stat is being used based on whether the shot 
emanated from a hex in their front or flank fire arc.

3 4.16 H i t Re s ul t s
When a piece is hit by a fire attack, it has the following effect: 
a)	 If a fresh unit is hit – either squad or platoon – draw a hit marker 
at random from the draw cup and place it on the unit.
b)	 If a squad with a hit marker is hit again, eliminate it. Place its hit 
marker back into the draw cup.
c)	 If a platoon with a hit marker is hit again, eliminate it [3.31].
And remember, the newly placed squads need NOT make Fire 
Defense rolls of their own. 
d)	 If a Sighting marker is hit, reveal it [6.4].
3 4.2 M e l e e F i r e At ta c k
Whenever a unit would fire and there is at least one enemy unit within 
its hex, that unit must perform a melee fire attack (or just “melee”) 
rather than a direct fire attack.
Melee differs from a direct fire attack in that firepower, defense, 
fire arcs, range and cover are all ignored, all while using a target 
number mechanic similar to that of a barrage.
To conduct a melee, perform the following steps in the order shown:
1)	 Targeting
2)	 Melee Dice
3)	 Melee Total
4)	 Hit Results
Each step is explained in detail below (as well as on the Melee Tables 
player aid card for ease of reference during play).
3 4. 2 1 M ele e Ta r g e t in g
As opposed to direct fire which affects a whole hex, melee only ever 
affects a single unit. When a melee is announced by the active player, 
the opposing player selects any one of his units in that hex to be the 
target of the attack. When a melee is announced by the inactive 
player (via Return Fire or Op Fire), only the last acting unit will be 
the target of the attack. 
Here you can assume that the active player made his "choice" of 
which unit will be affected by any Op/Return Fire when he chose 
to move/shoot with a particular unit in the first place.
In both cases, all other units within the hex will be unaffected by 
the attack.
Then, referencing his nationality’s Melee Table (located on a player 
aid card), the firing player locates the name of the firing unit along 
the left hand side of the table and the name of the targeted unit along 
the top of the table. Finally, locate the number within the grid that 
lies at the intersection of these two names: this is the “target number” 
needed to hit that enemy unit. A dash ("–") instead of a number 
indicates no possibility of the attack inflicting harm on the targeted 
unit: the attack is immediately ended with no effect.
3 4. 2 2 M ele e Di c e
Each melee begins with a default 2d10 attack dice. However, the die 
size may increase or decrease 
(auto miss)  2d6  2d8  2d10  2d12  2d20
●+1D if the firing unit is platoon-sized;
●+1D if the targeted unit is a vehicle In Column;
●-1D if the firing unit is a vehicle In Column;
●-1D if the targeted unit is inside a beneficial fortification.
Multiple modifiers are cumulative. If the net modifier to the attack 
dice is greater than -2D – that is, it would be less than 2d6 – the 
attack is immediately ended with no effect. 
3 4. 2 3 M ele e To t al
34.231 Determine Hindrance
Every melee begins with a default hindrance of 1. If the melee hex 
contains a Smoke marker, the default hindrance is raised to that listed 
on the marker. Terrain hindrance is ignored in melee.
34.232 Roll Melee Dice
Once the hindrance has been determined, the firing player rolls the 
two attack dice:
●If either or both dice result in a number that is less than or equal 
to the hindrance, the shot misses and the attack is immediately 
ended with no effect on the targeted unit.
●If the shot does not miss, the player sums the two attack dice:
◦◦If the total is less than the target number, the unit is unaffected.
◦◦If the total is greater than or equal to the target number, the 
unit is hit. 
3 4. 2 4 Hi t Re s ul t s
When a unit is hit by a melee attack, it has the following effect: 
a)	 If a fresh unit is hit – either squad or platoon – draw a hit marker 
at random from the draw cup and place it on the unit.
b)	 If a squad with a hit marker is hit again, eliminate it. Place its hit 
marker back into the draw cup.
c)	 If a platoon with a hit marker is hit again, eliminate it [3.31].
MELEE = 2d10: 
–1D target inside fortiﬁcation
 
–1D ﬁring unit In Column
 
+1D target unit In Column
 
+1D ﬁring unit is a platoon

3 4.3 R e t u r n F i r e
During an enemy Fire order (only), immediately after the active player 
concludes a fire attack with an activated unit, the inactive player has 
the option of making a single reactive fire attack against that acting 
unit's hex. This reactive attack is termed "Return Fire." Only unspent 
units belonging to the inactive player may Return Fire [34.33].
3 4.3 1 Re t u r n F ir e P r o c e d u r e
At the conclusion of every Fire order attack by the active player – 
whether that attack was successful or not – he should pause for a 
moment so as to give the inactive player a short time in which to 
decide whether to announce a Return Fire attack against that unit. If 
so, the inactive player should announce a temporary halt to the Fire 
order so that he can make one fire attack against that unit (and its 
hex, if the Return Fire will be direct fire) with one of his own units 
that is not yet spent [34.33]. This Return Fire attack must use AP if 
the activated unit being reacted to is armored; HE if it has a morale 
(inactive player's choice if both apply).
3 4.3 2 E x c e p t io n s
Units performing Return Fire follow all normal rules for a direct or 
melee fire attack [34.1 & 34.2] as appropriate, with several important 
exceptions:
a)	 Each Return Fire attack costs the inactive player 2 Initiative if that 
firing unit is Out of Command or 1 Initiative if under Tactical 
Command (those under Mission Command fire for free). A unit 
cannot make a Return Fire attack if the cost to do so would cause 
the Initiative marker to move beyond the opponent's “20” space.
Note that Return Fire can be performed even when the Initiative 
marker is on the opponent's side of the Initiative Track.
b)	 Unless and until they become spent [34.33], Return Firing units 
are not limited to only firing once and so remain eligible to fire 
at activated units for the entirety of that Fire order. However:
c)	 No more than one Return Fire attack may be made vs each fire 
attack conducted by the active player.
d)	 A unit in a melee hex can't Return Fire at a unit outside its hex.
3 4.3 3 R a t e o f F ir e
During Return Fire, the inactive player risks having 
his firing unit become “spent.” A Return Firing unit 
becomes spent if either or both of the attack dice shows 
a number that is less than or equal to that unit’s ROF. 
If this occurs, place a Spent marker on the unit at the 
conclusion of that Return Fire attack. Spent units are no longer 
eligible to perform Return Fire for the remainder of that Fire order. 
When the active player announces his Fire order is finished, remove 
all Spent markers from the inactive player's units.
See also the PLAY NOTE for rule 35.63.
3 4.3 4 Re s u m e t h e O r d e r
After any such Return Fire attack is made – or the opportunity to 
do so is declined (“Never mind; keep firing”) – the active player 
continues with his Fire order.
3 5. M ov e
units [30.1]. Units that are activated to Move – or Assault [32] – can 
move from hex to hex across the map, expending MPs in each new 
hex they enter. Activated units can also spend MPs to pivot in place 
[35.23].
In addition, some scenarios allow a player to exit units off a certain 
map edge in order to earn victory points [22.2].
During Move orders, an activated unit has as many MPs to spend 
as its printed speed (half that during an Assault) minus those MPs 
already spent during the order. Generally, the movement of one unit 
must be completed before another activated unit can begin moving. 
However, activated units that begin their movement in the same 
hex may choose to move together. Such a group may split up during 
movement in order to continue moving separately but all members of 
that group must end their movement before any other unit or group 
of units begins moving. Friendly Command markers sharing a hex 
with a moving unit may accompany that unit into all, some or none of 
the hexes that unit enters. Command markers ignore all move costs.
Hit Units—Units affected by a hit marker with a circled M can’t 
move.
3 5.1 M ov e m e n t C o s t s
Each terrain lists three different color-coded “move costs": green for 
leg, blue for track and red for wheel. One of these colors will always 
match the color of the box surrounding a moving unit’s speed, indi-
cating which move cost that unit must adhere to. In order to enter 
an adjacent hex during a Move or Assault order, an activated unit 
must spend a number of MPs equal to the move cost of the terrain 
in that hex. An additional cost may be assessed if a unit moves to a 
higher level [24.55] or crosses certain hexsides. 
Units with different modes of transport that are moving together 
expend their own MPs independently of one another. 
A unit may not enter a hex unless it has at least as many MPs remain-
ing as the total cost to enter that hex.
Unlike many other games, there is no "minimum move" concept in 
Fighting Formations. If a unit doesn't have enough MPs to move 
even one hex, it will have to await an Advance order to get going.
3 5.2 F ir e A rc s & M ov e m e n t
3 5. 2 1 F o r w a r d M o v e m e n t
Guns and vehicles – those units with defined fire arcs – may only 
move into the hex directly ahead of them. Immediately after entering 
a new hex – before any Op Fire or other reaction or triggered action 
occurs – a gun or vehicle is allowed a free pivot of up to one hexside, 
either clockwise or counterclockwise (an "adjacent pivot").
3 5. 2 2 Re v e r s e M o v e m e n t
Guns and vehicles may also move into the hex directly behind them, 
but at triple (3x) the normal move cost. The free adjacent pivot 
described above is still available to units using reverse movement.

3 5. 2 3 S t a t io n a r y P i v o t in g
While activated to Move (or Assault), a gun or vehicle may spend 1 
MP to pivot within its current hex. A stationary pivot allows the unit 
to change its facing to any hexside within its hex. Being an indepen-
dent MP expenditure, a stationary pivot is subject to Op Fire [35.6].
3 5.3 C o m b in e d A r m s M ov e m e n t
Up to one friendly infantry squad (only; not a gun or other vehicle) 
moving as a group with an armored vehicle squad may claim an alter-
nate cover of 0 versus any Op Fire made against it. Similarly, up to 
one infantry platoon – or up to three infantry squads, as the case may 
be – moving as a group with an armored vehicle platoon may claim 
an alternate cover of 0 for any Op Fire made against that infantry.
This rule only comes into play when traversing open ground, negating 
the -1 "moving in the open" cover for the infantry.
3 5.4 M e l e e E n t ry & E x i t
During a Move order, an activated gun unit (only) may enter or exit 
an enemy-occupied hex. Activated infantry and vehicles are prohibited 
from entering or exiting melee during a Move order.
3 5.5 C o l u m n M ov e m e n t
A vehicle must be placed In Column immediately upon entering any 
building hex. (This game's Playbook may include additional terrain 
in which being In Column is mandatory.) A vehicle must be placed 
In Column when using a road to enter any hex which is otherwise 
impassable to it. A vehicle In Column in an otherwise impassable hex 
may only leave that hex via a road hexside. See rule 24.10 for details 
on being In Column.
3 5.6 O p p o r t u n i t y (O p) F i r e
During an enemy Move or Assault order, immediately after the 
active player concludes an activity in which an activated unit spent 
any number of MPs (a stationary pivot; using a special action; assault 
firing; or moving into a new hex), the inactive player has the option 
of making any number of reactive fire attacks against that acting unit's 
hex. This is termed "Opportunity Fire" (or just "Op Fire"). Only 
unspent units belonging to the inactive player may Op Fire [35.63].
3 5.6 1 O p F i r e P r o c e d u r e
At the conclusion of every activity requiring a MP expenditure by 
the active player during a Move or Assault order, he should pause 
for a moment so as to give the inactive player a short time in which 
to decide whether to announce one or more Op Fire attacks against 
the acting unit. If so, the inactive player should call out “Wait!” so as 
to temporarily halt the order. He then makes one or more consecu-
tive fire attacks against that unit (and its hex, if the Op Fire will be 
direct fire) with one or more of his own units that are not yet spent 
[35.63]. Each Op Fire attack must use AP if the unit being reacted to is 
armored; HE if it has a morale (inactive player's choice if both apply).
3 5.6 2 E x c e p t io n s
Units performing Op Fire follow all normal rules for a direct or 
melee fire attack [34.1 & 34.2] as appropriate, with several important 
exceptions:
a)	 Each Op Fire attack costs the inactive player 2 Initiative if that 
firing unit is Out of Command or 1 Initiative if under Tactical 
Command (those under Mission Command fire for free). A unit 
cannot make an Op Fire attack if the cost to do so would cause 
the Initiative marker to move beyond the opponent's “20” space.
Note that Op Fire can be performed even when the Initiative marker 
is on the opponent's side of the Initiative Track.
b)	 Unless and until they become spent [35.63], Op Firing units 
are not limited to only firing once and so remain eligible to fire 
at activated units for the entirety of that Move/Assault order. 
However:
c)	 Even though multiple Op Fires are allowed vs each MP expen-
diture, no individual unit may Op Fire more than once per MP 
expenditure.
EXAMPLE: An activated vehicle expends 1 MP to pivot within 
its hex: Op Fire ensues but misses. It then spends 2 MPs to move 
into an adjacent rough hex where more Op Fire ensues. It then 
spends 1 MP to conduct an assault fire, which draws even more 
Op Fire. A unit belonging to the inactive player that remains 
unspent throughout this sequence could make three different fire 
attacks against the activated unit, one attack after each distinct 
MP expenditure. If the Op Firing unit was under Tactical Com-
mand, each attack would cost the inactive player 1 Initiative (3 
Initiative total for 3 shots).
d)	 A unit in a melee hex can't Op Fire at a unit outside its hex.
3 5.6 3 R a t e o f F ir e
During Op Fire, the inactive player risks having his 
firing unit become “spent.” An Op Firing unit becomes 
spent if either or both of the attack dice shows a number 
that is less than or equal to that unit’s ROF. If this 
occurs, place a Spent marker on the unit at the conclu-
sion of that Op Fire attack. Spent units are no longer eligible to perform 
Op Fire for the remainder of that Move/Assault order. When the 
active player announces his Move/Assault order is finished, remove 
any and all Spent markers from the inactive player's units.
PLAY NOTE: be aware that a unit’s ROF acts differently from 
the hindrance affecting the fire attack. So a unit could miss due to 
a high hindrance but remain unspent and eligible to shoot again 
later in the same order due to a good (low) ROF stat. Alternately, a 
Return Firing (or Op Firing) unit could hit an enemy unit but still 
become spent because its ROF number is greater than the hindrance 
affecting that shot.
3 5.6 4 Re s um e t h e O r d e r
After any such Op Fire attacks are made – or the opportunity to do 
so is declined (“Never mind; keep moving”) – the active player may 
continue with his Move/Assault order. 

3 6. R A L LY
units [30.1] with hit markers attached. Fresh units can't be activated 
during a Rally order. Each activated unit can then make a single 
"rally" attempt to have its hit marker removed.
PLAY NOTE—Since none of a unit’s stats are relevant during Rally, 
there’s really no need to physically flip them over when activated. 
If it’s obvious to both players who’s been activated, “skip the flip.”
Each rally attempt begins with a default 2d10. However, the die size 
may increase or decrease 
(auto fail)  2d6  2d8  2d10  2d12  2d20
●–2D if the unit is in melee;
●+1D if the unit can currently claim a cover of 1 or more;
●+1D if the unit shares a hex with a friendly Command marker.
The two dice are then rolled, with three possible outcomes:
a)	 If the result is greater than or equal to the hit marker’s 
rally target number (the number within a circle in the 
upper right corner) the rally is successful. Remove that 
hit marker, placing it back in the draw cup.
The rally number on the Panicked hit marker is highlighted above. 
b)	 If a hit marker’s rally target number is black (like 
the “12” shown to the right) and the result is less 
than that rally number, the rally is unsuccessful 
and there is no effect.
c)	 If a hit marker’s rally target number is red (like the 
“18” shown to the right) and the result is less than 
that rally number, the rally is unsuccessful but with 
consequences: the unit is eliminated [3.31].
nicked
Stunned
Immobilized
3 7. S nip e r
When this order is given, the active player flips the Sniper marker 
so that his side's nationality is face up. He then selects and performs 
any one order that is below his side's Sniper order on the Matrix.
EXAMPLE: A side's Sniper order is on row 5 of the Order Matrix. 
Below it are Rally, Fire, Move and Asset at 4, 3, 2 and 1, respectively. 
If that player removed a cube from any of rows 5 through 10 and 
chose "Sniper," he could perform a Rally, Fire, Move or Asset order 
in addition to flipping the Sniper marker to his side. 
PLAY NOTE: At the end of each turn, the player with his side of the 
Sniper marker face up will get to perform Sniper Activity [21.12c].
DESIGN NOTE: Despite its chosen title, the Sniper order/Sniper 
Activity represents much more than just a patient man with a scoped 
rifle taking head shots. This mechanism can also abstractly represent 
the increasing friction inherent at every battlefield, or non-specific 
occurrences such as friendly fire, growing panic, loss of a runner, a 
cut phone line, despair, fatigue, ammunition shortage, etc.
3 8. S u p p o r t
Each Support order allows the active player to draw a certain number 
of assets from the top of his deck (as indicated on his Order Matrix). 
Drawn assets are placed directly into the active player’s hand and 
kept hidden from his opponent until played or discarded.
If, in the act of drawing, a player’s draw pile runs out of cards he 
immediately shuffles together all cards currently in his discard pile to 
form a new face down draw pile (and resumes drawing, if appropriate).

Sum m a ry of Or de rs
A L L [3 o]
Costs 2 Initiative to activate any unit that is Out of Command; 1 if under Tactical Command; 0 if under Mission Command [30.1]. 
Flip activated units to their reverse (white stripe) side. Flip them back (“unactivate” them) after each has performed its activities.
A turn ends at the conclusion of any order in which no cubes remain on the Order Matrix [21.12].
A dva n c e [31]
Infantry are the only unit type that may enter/exit melee during an Advance order.
Activated units may move a maximum of 1 hex. Guns/vehicles can pivot once (before, after or instead of advancing). MPs are ignored. Friendly 
Command may accompany advancing units. Units with a hit marker attached containing a circled M can’t advance or pivot.
A s s a u lt [3 2] – O p Fi re i s a l l o w e d (s e e b o t t o m o f p a g e)
Vehicles are the only unit type that may enter/exit melee during an Assault order.
Activated units have their printed Speed halved. Activated units spend MPs as if for a Move order. Each activated unit may fire once by spend-
ing 1 MP, suffering –1D (unless in melee). Friendly Command may accompany assaulting units. 
A s s e t [3 3]
Play up to one Asset order from your hand.
F ir e [3 4]
Units with a hit marker attached containing a circled F can’t fire. Units with a hit marker attached containing a circled M can’t pivot.
DIR E C T: Activated units may each make one fire attack outside their own hex. See the Player Aid for detailed procedure.
M e l e e : Activated units may each make one fire attack at a unit in their own hex. See the Melee Tables for detailed procedure.
R e t u r n F i r e [ 3 4. 3]
Inactive player only: Up to one unspent unit may Return Fire at an activated unit that just completed its Fire order. Lose 2 Initiative to 
Return Fire with a unit that is Out of Command; lose 1 Initiative to Return Fire with a unit under Tactical Command; units under Mission 
Command Return Fire for free. If either attack die is less than or equal to the Return Firing unit’s ROF, place a Spent marker on it. Remove 
all Spent markers at the end of the order.
M ov e [3 5 ] – O p Fi re i s a l l o w e d (s e e b o t t o m o f p a g e)
Guns are the only unit type that may enter/exit melee during a Move order.
Activated units move from hex to hex, expending MPs as they go. Friendly Command may accompany moving units. Units with a hit marker 
attached containing a circled M can’t expend MPs.
R a l ly [3 6]
Attempt to remove hit markers from activated units. Rolls greater than or equal to a hit marker’s rally number are successful. A failed attempt 
with a red-colored rally number eliminates the unit, otherwise a fail has no effect.
Start with 2d10: –2D if rallying unit is in melee; +1D if stacked with a friendly Command; +1D if rallying unit has Cover of 1 or more.
S nip e r [3 7 ]
Flip the Sniper marker so that your side is face up. Then perform any one order that lies below your side's Sniper order.
S u p p o r t [3 8]
Draw X asset cards (as indicated on the Order Matrix).
O p p o r t u n i t y (O p) F i r e [ 3 5 . 6 ]
Inactive player only: Any number of unspent units may Op Fire – one at a time – at an activated unit(s) that just expended any number of MPs 
during a Move or Assault order. Lose 2 Initiative to Op Fire with a unit that is Out of Command; lose 1 Initiative to Op Fire with a unit under 
Tactical Command; units under Mission Command Op Fire for free. If either attack die is less than or equal to the Op Firing unit’s ROF, place 
a Spent marker on it. Remove all Spent markers at the end of the order.