2-4 players
10 years and up
45 minutes
Contents:
 1 game board
 12 windmill blades
 42 fruit tiles
 10 ﬁ nca tiles
 16 action tiles
 4 bonus tiles
 8 donkey carts
 6 wooden ﬁ ncas
108 fruits 
(18 each of ﬁ gs, almonds,
olives, oranges, grapes, 
and lemons)
 20 farmers
1. Place the 
game board on 
the table.
2. Shufﬂ e the 12 windmill blades 
face-down and place them face-up 
on the spaces of the windmill.
8. Each player takes farmers in his color, depending 
 on the number of players:
 4 players: 3 farmers 
 
 3 players: 4 farmers 
 
 2 players: 5 farmers 
9. Place the 4 bonus tiles in a stack 
beside the game board. Place 
the tile with the golden 4 on the 
bottom, then comes the 5, and 
then the 6, and, ﬁ nally, on top is 
the 7.
10. Place the donkey carts in 
a stack in the middle of the 
windmill.
The number placed depends
on the number of players: 
4 players: 8 donkey carts
3 players: 6 donkey carts 
2 players: 4 donkey carts

3. Shufﬂ e the 42 fruit tiles face-down. Then 
separate them into 10 stacks of 4 each. 
Place one stack in each region and turn the 
top-most tile face-up.
Place the 2 remaining tiles face-down in the 
box without looking at them.
4. Randomly distribute the 10 
ﬁ nca tiles, 1 per region, on the 
community in each region.
5. Place wooden ﬁ ncas next to the game board, 
 depending on the number of players: 
 4 players: 6 ﬁ ncas
 3 players: 5 ﬁ ncas
 2 players: 4 ﬁ ncas
6. Sort the 108 fruits according to type and place 
 them as general supply next to the game board.
7. Each player takes the 4 action 
 tiles in his color.

Goal
The players take the roles of Mallorcan farmers, who strive to harvest as many of 
the island‘s tropical fruits: ﬁ gs, almonds, olives, oranges, grapes, and lemons, as possible. 
The players deliver their harvested fruits to the island communities, which have constantly changing 
requirements during the course of the game. For these deliveries, the players receive victory points.
In the end, the player with the most victory points is the winner.
Beginning the game
The play begins with the introduction phase. First, the players choose a starting player. He begins the 
game by placing one of his farmers on any windmill blade and taking exactly one fruit from the supply 
that matches the fruit that is illustrated on that windmill blade.
The players follow in clockwise order. Each sets one of his farmers on any windmill blade and takes 
exactly one fruit from the general supply matching the fruit illustrated on the blade where he placed his 
farmer.
Several farmer ﬁ gures may be placed on the same windmill blade. The introduction phase ends when all 
players have placed all of their farmers and received a fruit for each one. The players place the fruits 
they take visibly on the table near them (their play areas). This open showing of taken fruits continues 
throughout the entire game.
Example: Red
Red places his farmer on a windmill blade illustrated with a 
lemon and takes 1 lemon from the supply, placing it in his play area. Next 
Yellow
Yellow places his farmer on a blade with a ﬁ g and takes 1 ﬁ g, placing it 
in his play area. Then, Blue
Blue places his farmer next to red‘s
red‘s farmer on the 
windmill blade with a lemon and takes 1 lemon, placing it in his play area. 
Playing the game
Following the introduction phase, the actual game begins. The start player takes the ﬁ rst turn. After his 
ﬁ rst turn, play continues in clockwise order until the game ends. On a player‘s turn, he must choose one 
of the three following options:
1) Move farmer
The player selects any one of his farmers which is on a windmill blade and moves it in the clockwise 
direction. Before moving his farmer, the player counts the number of farmers on the blade he is moving 
from (his and his opponents). He then moves his farmer exactly as many spaces (blades) as there were 
farmers on the blade he moved the farmer from. Thus, if a farmer is alone on a blade, he moves only 
1 space - to the next blade. If the farmer shares the blade with one other farmer, he moves 2 spaces 
(blades). And so on, for 3 or more farmers on a blade.
After the player moves his farmer, he counts the farmers (his and his opponents) on the windmill blade 
where he ended his move. He then takes this number of fruits from the supply, placing them in his play 
area. The kind of fruit taken is shown by the illustration on the blade where he ended his move.

Example: Green
Green moves his farmer from the windmill blade 
with oranges. Here now stand 3 farmers, so Green
Green must 
move his farmer 3 spaces clockwise. 
He ends his move on the windmill blade with almonds, 
where now 3 farmers stand. He takes 3 almonds from the 
supply and ends his turn .
If the supply does not have sufﬁ cient fruits (there are 18 of each kind) of the kind the player is 
allowed to take, all players (including the player taking fruit) must return all fruits of this kind back 
into the supply. The player then takes the number of fruits of this kind he is allowed from the supply. 
Example: Green
Green may take 3 almonds from the supply. However, there are now only 2 in the supply. 
Therefore, all players, including Green
Green, return all the almonds they have to the supply so that there are 
now 18 almonds in the supply. Now, Green
Green takes 3 almonds from the supply
When a player moves his farmer past one of the two dividing lines of the windmill (see example below), 
the player also takes one donkey cart from the center of the windmill, placing it in his play area.
Example: the Blue
Blue farmer stands alone on a windmill 
blade with almonds. He moves 1 clockwise space forward 
to the blade with ﬁ gs, crossing the dividing line as he 
does. He takes 2 ﬁ gs from the supply and 1 donkey cart 
from the center of the windmill, placing all 3 in his play 
area.
If there are no more donkey carts in the center of the windmill, all players, including the player who 
moved his farmer, must return all donkey carts back to the center of the windmill. The player then 
takes the donkey cart he is allowed.
Example: Blue
Blue may take a donkey cart, because he crossed the dividing line of the windmill. However, 
there are no more donkey carts in the center of the windmill. Thus, all players, including Blue
Blue, must 
return all their donkey carts to the center of the windmill, so that all donkey carts are back in the 
center. Now, Blue
Blue takes 1 donkey cart from the center of the windmill, placing it in his play area. 
Rare case: when a farmer crosses both dividing lines because there are more than 6 farmers on the wind-
mill blade he moves from, the player takes 2 donkey carts.

2) Deliver fruit 
By moving the farmers on the windmill blades the players take fruits and donkey carts. 
Later, players can use the donkey carts to deliver fruits to the communities. What fruits each 
community wants are shown on the face-up fruit tile in each community. 
This symbol on fruit tiles indicates any single fruit kind can be used to fulﬁ ll the fruit 
requirements of the tile.The player must supply the number of fruits shown.
 
During his turn, the player can deliver fruits to one or more communities, however the maximum 
number of fruits a player can deliver in a turn is 6 fruits. In order to deliver, the player ﬁ rst returns 
one of his donkey carts back to the center of the windmill. Then, he places the fruits required by the 
communities he wants to deliver to on the fruit tiles standing on those communities. The player must 
place exactly the fruits required - no more and no less. He is, however, limited to delivering a maximum 
of 6 fruits in a single turn.
After the player has delivered all the fruits he wants, he places the delivered fruits back in the supply 
and takes the tiles they rested on, placing them face-up in his play area. Then, he turns over the top-
most tile on each stack that he removed a tile from. Thus, during the game, these stacks become 
smaller and smaller, and, naturally, not at the same rate. So, some stacks will be exhausted before 
others. 
Example: the player returns one of his donkey carts back to the center of the windmill and delivers 
the following 6 fruits: 1 ﬁ g to Arta, 1 olive to Villafranca and 4 lemons to Son Severa. He ﬁ rst places 
the fruits on the fruit tiles on the indicated communities. Then, he moves the 6 fruits into the supply 
from those communities and takes the 3 fruit tiles from the tops of the stacks on those communities. 
Finally, he turns over the top-most tile in each of these stacks. 
2 orange
2 oranges & 
2 grapes
2 olives &
3 ﬁ gs
1 each of the 
6 different fruit 
types
4 fruits of the 
same kind e. g. 
4 almonds
1 lemon 
Examples of fruit tiles (showing how many of which fruits the community wants):

When a player takes the last fruit tile from a community, the Finca tile for this 
community is immediately assigned to a player. To determine which player gets the 
Finca tile, each player counts the fruits of this kind he has on the fruit tiles he has 
collected in his play area. The player who has the most fruits of that kind on his fruit tiles, takes the 
Finca tile. If two or more players tie with the most, the Finca tile is returned to the box with no player 
taking it. For example, if the Finca tile shows ﬁ gs, all players count their ﬁ gs. After the Finca tile is 
assigned or returned to the box, the player places a wooden ﬁ nca on the community to show that the 
Finca tile has been taken. 
Example: in Arta, the last fruit is taken so the Finca tile there is immediately assigned. Each player 
counts the number of oranges on the fruit tiles he has in his play area. Green
Green has 4 oranges, Yellow
Yellow has 
1 orange, and Red
Red has 6 oranges. As Red
Red has the most oranges, he takes the Arta Finca tile and places it 
face up in his play area. After this assignment of the Finca tile, the player places a wooden ﬁ nca on the 
community.
There are also Finca tiles with 2 kinds of fruit (e. g., ﬁ gs and almonds). When such a tile is to be 
assigned, the players count all fruits of these two kinds on the fruit tiles in their play areas and sum 
the two to determine who has the most. E. g., the player who has the most ﬁ gs and almonds together 
takes the tile. 
One of the 10 Finca tiles shows this 
fruit symbol. When this Finca tile is to be assigned, the 
players sum the values on all their collected fruit tiles in their play areas. The player who has the high-
est total on his fruit tiles takes the Finca tile. As with the other Finca tiles, if two or more players tie 
with the most total fruits, no player takes the Finca tile and it is returned to the box.
After the assignment of a Finca tile, the player places a wooden ﬁ nca on 
the community. This is to clearly indicate that no more fruits can be delivered 
to this community.
Additionally, the placement of the last wooden ﬁ nca signals the end of the game
3.) Use action tile
Each player has 4 action tiles. A player may use one action tile during a turn, but may use each tile only 
once in the game. After using a tile, the player returns it to the box.
The action tiles have the following uses:
Double move on the windmill: after moving a farmer and collecting fruits, the player may 
move one of his farmers again on the windmill (the same or another) and collect fruits as 
in a normal move. In this way, the player could get more than 1 donkey cart in a turn.
Gust of wind: the player may place one of his farmers on any blade of the windmill. Then, 
he takes the allowed number of fruits. However, the player may not take a donkey cart 
regardless of how far he moves the farmer.
+
= 9 total

Large donkey cart: the player may make a delivery of up to 10 fruits 
by using this special donkey cart. When a player uses the large donkey 
cart, he does not use a normal donkey cart. 
One fruit less: the player may deliver 1 fruit less than required. Thus, he may take tiles 
totalling to 7, since he is only actually delivering 6 fruits.
A player cannot take a fruit tile with just one fruit by delivering 0 fruits of that kind. 
Note: a player may use only 1 action tile in a turn!
Bonus tiles
The ﬁ rst player to collect 6 fruit tiles with the values 1 to 6, takes immediately the bonus tile with the 
value 7 on top of the stack of bonus tiles. The next player to do this takes the next tile (with the value 
6), and so on until all 4 bonus tiles are taken. A player may take a second bonus tile if he collects a 
second set of six tiles, valued 1 to 6. 
 
Game end
The game ends after placing the last wooden ﬁ nca on the board. The player ﬁ nishes his turn. 
Then, the players count their victory points. The player with the most victory points is the winner. 
The players count their victory points:
• the values on the collected fruit tiles,
• each Finca tile is worth 5 points,
• each unused action tile is worth 2 points,
• and the value of the bonus tiles.
If players tie with the most victory points, the player among 
them with the most fruits in his play area is the winner. 
If there is still a tie, those tied rejoice in their shared victory.
Special case: when the players place the last wooden ﬁ nca, 
the player ﬁ nishes his turn, which may include the assignment of 
additional Fincatiles, even though there are no more wooden 
ﬁ ncas to place. 
At the end of the player‘s turn, the game ends.
© 2009 Hans im Glück Verlags-GmbH
If you have comments, questions, of
suggestions, please write us at RioGames@aol.com 
or
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715, Rio Rancho, NM 87174, USA
www.riograndegames.com
For many test sessions, the author and publisher thank Gregor Abraham, Dieter Hornung, Karl-Heinz Schmiel, and Hannes 
Wildner. Ralf zur Linde offers his special thanks to Maike Wagener, Jens Franke, and Uli Stumpe. 
Wolfgang Sentkeroffer thanks his wife Frau Gabi, his children Claudia and Daniel, and the gaming group SPIELWIESE e.V. 
BIELEFELD, whose members participated in many test sessions. Rule assistance: Hanna & Alex Weiß, and Scott Tepper.
26 points
10 points
2 points
7 points 
----------
45 points
Example: Red
Red has collected 
the following tiles: 
=