COMPONENTS
5 ocean mats
1 achievement board 
9 achievement tiles 
125 fish cards
10 starter fish cards
30 divers 
(6 of each color)
90 egg/young tokens 
(double sided: egg on one 
side, young on the other)
40 school tokens
1 first-player token
5 player aids
1 scorepad 
1 week tracker token
F I N
F I N S PA N
S PA N
Designed by David Gordon and Michael O’Connell
Art by Ana María Martínez, Catalina Martínez, and Mesa Schumacher
with support from Natalia Rojas
Developed by Elizabeth Hargrave
1–5 players · 45–60 minutes · ages 10+ · competitive
A WINGSPAN GAME
You are a marine researcher seeking to find and observe an array of aquatic life in the colorful Sunlight 
Zone, ghostly Twilight Zone, and pitch-black Midnight Zone of the world’s seas and oceans.
OVERVIEW AND GOAL
In Finspan, the fish you discover over 4 weeks will 
generate a series of benefits as you dive deeper into 
the ocean. Each dive site specializes in a key aspect 
of expanding your research:
	 •	Grow your collection of fish.
	 •	Discover freshly laid eggs.
	 •	Hatch eggs into young, and nurture the young 
into schools.
The winner is the player with the most points gained 
from fish, eggs, young, schools, and achievements.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Setup................................................................. 2
Gameplay Overview........................................... 4
End of Week....................................................... 8
End of Game...................................................... 8
Important Notes................................................. 9
Tags & Other Icons............................................. 10
Marine Science.................................................. 11
The solo mode components are listed in the Nautoma rulebook. Replacement parts can be requested 
via the form at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts.
ACHIEVEMENTS—SIDE B
SCORING
a. GAME END points
b. Points printed on visible fish
d. 
e. 
: 6 points each
f. 
At the end of weeks 1 through 3:
a. Score points for this week’s 
achievement tile. 
b. The player (or players) who received 
the most points from this week’s 
achievement tile also scores 3 
additional points.
c. Retrieve all divers.
d. Rotate the first-player token clockwise.
ACHIEVEMENTS—SIDE A
At the end of weeks 1 through 3:
a. Score points for this week’s 
achievement.
b. Retrieve all divers.
c. Rotate the first-player token clockwise.
SCHOOLS
EGGS AND/OR 
SCORING
a. GAME END points
b. Points printed on visible fish
d. 
e. 
: 6 points each
f. 
FISH CARD ANATOMY
GREAT WHITE 
SHARK
Carcharodon carcharias
Known by scientists as simply the “white 
shark,” this famous predator is, itself, 
occasionally preyed upon by orca whales.
When playing this fish, you must remove 2 young from 
anywhere in your ocean. Also, this fish must consume 
(cover up) a shorter fish in your ocean. Other fish may 
require you to remove eggs or schools from your ocean 
and/or discard cards from your hand.
Gain this fish’s benefits 
when you play it. Some 
fish abilities are activated 
when you dive at that 
fish’s dive site (brown 
abilities), and others are 
used at the end of the 
game (yellow abilities).
This is the fish’s ability. 
(See the opposite side 
of this player aid for 
details about each ability 
type.) These benefits are 
optional for each affected 
player.
This fish’s ability affects 
all players.
This fish is an Über Predator since 
it has two predator tags. Über 
Predators have an ability that 
affects all players when played.
This is the fish’s length. 
Large fish (like this one) have a 
Medium fish have a 
Small fish have a 
This fish may be 
played in any zone 
in your ocean: 
Sunlight, Twilight, or 
Midnight.
This fish is worth 
10 points.
Some fish abilities reference estuaries (top row, 
) or deepwater (bottom row, 
Play a fish from your hand on an empty or 
occupied slot on your ocean mat after paying 
its cost.
As a cost: The card being played must be 
placed on top of a shorter fish (card or forage). 
As a benefit: This fish consumes a shorter fish 
from your hand (tuck it underneath).
Gain any card from your discard pile to your 
hand. If you have none remaining, draw the 
top card of the deck instead.
Put an egg on each of your fish that doesn’t 
already have one in the location shown or with 
the characteristic shown (at least one icon).
Move 1 young or 1 school any number of slots 
in a straight line in your ocean. A school may 
not enter or pass through a slot with another 
school.
Each player may gain the benefit (even if the 
active player chose not to gain it).
As a cost: Discard a fish card from your hand.
As a benefit: Draw a fish card from the deck.
As a cost: Discard an egg from a fish. 
As a benefit: Put an egg on a fish (in your ocean) 
that doesn’t already have one.
Hatch any one of your eggs. (Flip over the egg 
token so the young side is face up.)
As a cost: Discard a young from your ocean.
As a benefit: Put a young on any fish or open 
slot in your ocean.
A school forms when 3 young are on the same 
slot (replace the young with a school token).
As a cost: Discard a school token from your 
ocean.
ABILITY ICONOGRAPHY
You may only play this fish below the dive site 
that matches the color band of its ability (blue, 
purple, or green).
Venomous
Predator
Camouflage
Bioluminescent
Electric
• SETUP: Begin the game with a hand of 2 starter fish and 3 other fish. Place 2 eggs and 1 young on your ocean mat in the slots indicated.
• DIVE: When taking the dive action, if you have at least 1 fish in the same column of the following zone, gain the printed dive site bonus. 
When the diver reaches the bottom of your ocean mat, if they are the first diver at the bottom of this dive site, gain the bottom bonus.
• SCHOOLS: At any time, if you have 3 young in a slot on your ocean mat that doesn’t already have a school token on it, replace the 3 young 
with a school token. A slot can only hold 1 school token at a time.
ARABIAN CARPETSHARK
Chiloscyllium arabicum
This hardy shark inhabits coastal waters that 
feature coral reefs, lagoons, rocky shores, and 
mangrove estuaries.
Week 1 Achievement
Week 2 Achievement
Week 3 Achievement
“GAME END” points (yellow)
Points printed on visible fish
Eggs (1 point each)
Young (1 point each)
Schools (6 points each)
Consumed fish (1 point each)
Total Points
NAME:
MANDARINFISH
Synchiropus splendidus
Its common name comes from its vivid 
coloration, evoking the robes of the imperial 
Chinese civil service.
FISH
EACH 
PREDATOR TAG
FISH WITH 
TOKENS
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 1
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 1

SETUP
GLOBAL COMPONENTS
	
1 	 Place all egg/young and school tokens within reach of all players to form the general supply.
	
2 	 Shuffle the 10 starter fish cards and place them face down near the general supply. These 10 
cards have dark gray corners and a different back than other fish cards.
	
3 	 Shuffle the deck of 125 fish cards and place it face down next to the starter fish cards.
	
4 	 Place the achievement board near the general supply. 
	 	 •	For any game with a first-time player, use side A.
	 	 •	Otherwise, you may use either side. (Side B uses random achievement tiles and awards a 
3-point bonus to each player who gains the most achievement points that week.) If using 
side B, randomly select a Week 1 tile, a Week 2 tile, and a Week 3 tile and place them on the 
achievement board, ensuring that the tiles’ week-number lines match the lines on the board.
PLAYER SETUP
	 A 	 Place an ocean mat (your “ocean”) in front of you.
	 B 	 Choose a player color and gain the 6 divers of that color.
	
 C 	 Place 1 egg token on each of the 2 starting egg slots (printed on forage fish) in your ocean. 
Forage fish are the three fish printed on your ocean mat.
	 D 	 Place 1 young token on the starting young slot. 
	
 E 	 Gain 2 random starter fish cards. Place them face up in a vertical line beside your ocean mat (as 
shown) to form your hand. Return any unused starter fish cards to the box.
	
F Draw 3 fish cards from the deck and add them face up to your hand. All unplayed fish in your 
hand are public knowledge.
	 G 	 Randomly select the first player and give them the first-player token.
You can skip the rulebook and instead watch a rules video at 
stonemaiergames.com/games/finspan/media-reviews or use a Dized interactive tutorial.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 2
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 2

A
B
C
C
D
E
F
G
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 3
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 3

GAMEPLAY OVERVIEW
Each turn, you will either play a fish or dive into your ocean. You will take 6 turns during each of the 
4 weeks (a total of 24 turns per player during the entire game).
You will typically spend the beginning of the game playing low-cost fish cards and laying eggs, the 
middle of the game playing higher-cost fish cards and hatching eggs into young, and the end of the 
game playing powerful “WHEN PLAYED” fish cards and gathering young to form schools.
ON YOUR TURN
Place an available diver onto your ocean mat to either (A) play a fish card into your ocean or (B) dive at 
a dive site to gain various benefits.
PYGMY S
Hippocamp
PLAY A FISH CARD
Playing a fish involves choosing a fish card from your hand, paying 
its cost, and placing it on your ocean mat. Thematically, this 
represents you discovering this fish in an area of your ocean.
Follow these steps to play a fish card:
	 1.	PLACE A DIVER. Place an available diver in the gray box at the 
upper left of your ocean.
	 2.	PAY THE COST. Choose a fish card from your hand and pay the 
cost noted on the upper left corner of the card.
	 	 •	Many costs include discarding 1 or more additional cards 
(
)from your hand as payment. Cards discarded in this 
way are placed face up in your personal discard pile. 
	 	 •	Some costs include paying eggs (
) or young (
) from 
anywhere in your ocean. (Place the tokens back in the 
general supply.)
	 	 •	Other costs involve consuming a fish (
)in your ocean. 
When you play a fish with such a cost, it must cover a shorter 
fish (card or forage) already in your ocean.
	 3.	PLACE THE FISH. Choose an empty or occupied slot in your ocean 
and place the fish there, following these rules:
	 	 •	ZONES: Each fish has 1 or more zones where it may be placed 
(Sunlight, Twilight, and/or Midnight), as indicated in the left 
sidebar of the card.
	 	 •	DIVE SITES: Fish with blue, purple, or green color bands may 
only be placed in their matching dive sites (columns). Other 
fish without a blue, purple or green color band may be 
placed in any dive site.
	 	 •	COVERING EGGS AND YOUNG: If a fish is placed on top of egg or 
young tokens, transfer those tokens to the newly played fish.
Sunlight
Twilight
Midnight
MACKEREL
Scomber scombrus
Unlike other mackerel, this fish does 
not leap out of the water unless it’s 
attempting to escape a predator.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 4
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 4

FISH CARD ANATOMY
GREAT WHITE 
SHARK
Carcharodon carcharias
Known by scientists as simply the “white 
shark,” this famous predator is, itself, 
occasionally preyed upon by orca whales.
When playing this fish, you must remove 2 
young from anywhere in your ocean. Also, 
this fish must consume (cover up) a shorter 
fish in your ocean. Other fish may require 
you to remove eggs or schools from your 
ocean and/or discard cards from your hand.
Gain this fish’s 
benefits when you 
play it. Some fish 
abilities are activated 
when you dive at that 
fish’s site (brown 
abilities), and others 
are used at the end 
of the game (yellow 
abilities).
This is the fish’s 
ability. (See the player 
aid for details about 
each ability type.) 
These benefits are 
optional for each 
affected player.
This fish’s ability 
affects all players.
This fish is an Über 
Predator since it has 
two predator tags. Über 
Predators have an ability 
that affects all players 
when played.
This is the fish’s length. 
Large fish (like this one) have a 
 tail 
icon. Medium fish have a 
Small fish have a 
This fish may be 
played in any zone 
in your ocean: 
Sunlight, Twilight, 
or Midnight.
This fish is worth 
10 points.
	 	 •	CONSUMING FISH: You may place the fish on top of a shorter fish 
(card or forage) either by choice or to satisfy a 
 cost.
	 	 	 	 —The played fish must have a longer length (shown at the 
bottom left) than the fish it consumes.
	 	 	 	 —Any tokens (egg, young, or school) on the consumed 
fish transfer to the played fish. Any fish cards under the 
consumed fish also remain.
	 	 	 	 —Consumed fish remain under the fish card that consumed 
them and no longer count as fish in your ocean. Each 
consumed fish is worth 1 point at the end of the game.
	 4.	RESOLVE “WHEN PLAYED” ABILITIES. If the fish has a “WHEN PLAYED” 
ability, you may gain the benefit. If there is more than one 
benefit, you may choose the order in which you gain the 
benefits. If the benefit says, “all players,” each player may 
decide whether to gain the benefit. 
BARRAMUNDI
Lates calcarifer
Virtually all barramundi are born male, then turn 
female when they are three to four years old.
ifif
(there are 
there are 
ANGELSHARK
Squatina squatina
The angelshark is an ambush predator, 
camouflaging itself on the sea floor until 
prey gets close.
CONSUMED FISH
Some fish abilities reference estuaries (top row, 
) or deepwater (bottom row, 
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 5
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 5

DIVE
Diving involves choosing a dive site (1 of the 3 columns on your ocean mat) and moving a diver from 
top to bottom, gaining benefits along the way. Thematically, this represents observing and studying 
fish in their habitats.
Follow these steps to dive:
	 1.	Select a dive site. Place an available diver at the top of a column. 
	 2. Check the topmost dive site bonus. You may gain the bonus printed at the top of the column if 
you have at least 1 fish (card or forage fish) in the same column of the Sunlight Zone.
	 	 a. 
: Draw a fish card from the deck.
	 	 b. 
: Put an egg on a fish (in your ocean) that doesn’t already have one. Each fish can hold at 
most 1 egg.
: Hatch one of your eggs. (Flip over the egg token so the young side is face up.)*
	 3. Move down the dive site. As the diver moves down—one row at a time—you may gain “IF 
ACTIVATED” benefits on fish cards as well as other dive site bonuses. You always move 
your diver through all 3 zones to the bottom of your ocean, even when you don’t have 
fish in one or more zones of the dive site.
	 	 a.	 “IF ACTIVATED” BENEFIT: If the fish has an “IF ACTIVATED” ability, you may gain the benefit. 
If the benefit says, “all players,” each player may decide whether to gain the benefit.
	 	 b. DIVE SITE BONUS: Just like the topmost dive site bonus, there is a dive site bonus you 
may gain above the Twilight Zone (if you have a fish in the same column there), and above the 
Midnight Zone (if you have a fish in the same column there).
	 4. Gain the bottom bonus. One of two things happens when a diver reaches the bottom of your 
ocean mat: 
	 	 a. If this is the first time a diver reached the bottom of this dive site this 
week, place the diver in the 
 and you may gain the bottom bonus.
	 	 b. If this isn’t the first time a diver reached the bottom of this dive site this 
week, place the diver in the gray box below the dive site. You don’t gain the bottom bonus.
*If hatching an egg results in 3 or more young sharing the same slot in your ocean, form a school 
(unless there a school is already on the slot). See page 9 for more details about schools.
For explanations of the various benefits on cards, see page 12 or the player aids.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 6
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 6

SAMPLE DIVE TURN
You place a diver at the top of the middle dive site to select it as your dive location. Starting at the 
top and moving down the column, you evaluate each zone’s dive site bonus and activate the fish in 
that column.
	
1 Gain the topmost dive site bonus, 
since you have at least 1 fish in the 
Sunlight Zone. (Place 1 egg on any 
fish that doesn’t already have an 
egg.) 
	
2 Gain the benefit from the Porkfish 
(1 egg).
	 3 Gain the benefit from the Skipjack 
Tuna (hatch 1 egg into a young). 
Because this fish’s ability affects all 
players, each other player may also 
do this (even if you choose not to).
	
4 The Shortspine Spurdog has no 
brown “IF ACTIVATED” ability, so you 
don’t gain any benefit.
	 5 Gain 1 egg from the Twilight Zone dive 
site bonus, since you have a fish in 
that zone.
	
6 The Showy Bristlemouth has no 
brown “IF ACTIVATED” ability, so you 
don’t gain any benefit.
	 7 Ignore the Midnight Zone dive site 
bonus, since you do not have a fish in 
that zone.
	 8 Place the diver in the empty 
 at the 
bottom of the dive site (column) and 
gain the bottom bonus (1 egg). (If you 
dive in this column again this week, 
you will ignore the bottom bonus and 
instead, place that turn’s diver in the 
bottom gray box.)
PORKFISH
Anisotremus virginicus
It gets its common name from the sound it makes 
when it grinds its teeth and how it makes pig-like 
grunts.
SKIPJACK TUNA
Katsuwonus pelamis
Skipjack makes up about 70% of all 
canned or pouched tuna. It is the most 
caught tuna in the world.
SHORTSPINE 
SPURDOG
Squalus mitsukurii
A type of dogfish found along the continental 
shelves, it gives birth to live young after a 
two-year gestation period.
PYGMY SEAHORSE
Hippocampus bargibanti
It is nearly indistinguishable from the coral 
where it is found because of its tiny size and 
specialized camouflage.
2cm
HONEYCOMB 
SCALY DRAGONFISH
Stomias affinis
This fish can be found in deep waters 
during the day and in shallower areas at 
night, where it searches for food.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 7
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 7

The week ends after each player has taken 6 turns (used all their divers). At the 
end of weeks 1, 2, and 3, players simultaneously perform each step in order:
	 1.	Gain points based on this week’s achievement (points for each instance 
of the item), noting the points on the scorepad.
	 	 EXAMPLE: At the end of week 1, if you have 5 eggs and 2 young in your ocean, gain 
7 points. At the end of week 2, if you have 3 rows filled with fish (cards and forage), 
gain 6 points. At the end of week 3, if you have 4 schools, gain 8 points.
	 2. If you’re using side B of the achievement board, the player(s) who gained 
the most achievement points this week also gain a 3-point bonus.
	 3. Retrieve all your divers from your ocean.
	 4. If you have the first-player token, pass it clockwise to the next player.
The week tracker token indicates the current week. At the end of week 4, proceed directly to the end-
of-game steps. Otherwise, the player with the first-player token begins the next week.
END OF GAME
The game ends after the completion of week 4. After activating (in any order) “GAME END” abilities on 
fish in oceans that don’t award end-game points, players simultaneously perform each step in order:
	 1. GAME END (YELLOW): Gain any “GAME END” points on fish in your ocean (in any order). Do not gain 
GAME END points on consumed fish.
	 2. FISH: Gain points printed on visible fish in your ocean. Do 
not gain points printed on consumed fish.
	 3. CONSUMED FISH: Gain 1 point for each consumed fish (cards 
and forage) in your ocean.
	 4. EGGS AND YOUNG: Gain 1 point for each egg and 1 point for 
each young in your ocean.
	 5. SCHOOLS: Gain 6 points for each school in your ocean.
Add these points to those already on the scorepad (week 1–3 
achievements).
The winner is the player with the most points. In case of a tie, 
the tied player with the most fish cards in hand is the winner. If 
players are still tied, they share the victory.
SCHOOLS
EGGS AND/OR 
BANGGAI CARDINALFISH
Pterapogon kauderni
Due to limited geographical diversity and 
its popularity in the aquarium trade, this 
fish has become endangered.
YELLOW BOXFISH
Ostracion cubicum
When it’s threatened, the yellow boxfish 
releases toxins that protect it from predators.
BEARDED SEADEVIL
Linophryne algibarbata
Bearded seadevils attract prey with 
their bioluminescent lure and elaborate 
bioluminescent chin barbel.
ABYSSAL ANGLERFISH
Melanocetus murrayi
Unlike some anglerfishes, the tiny 
males of this deepsea blackdevil are not 
believed to be parasitic.
 if no tokens
 if no tokens 
on this
on this fish
 fish
BLUEFIN TUNA
Thunnus thynnus
The bluefin tuna is one of the open ocean’s 
fastest and strongest predators, reaching 
speeds of up to 69 km/hr.
PORKFISH
Anisotremus virginicus
It gets its common name from the sound it makes 
when it grinds its teeth and how it makes pig-like 
grunts.
SKIPJACK TUNA
Katsuwonus pelamis
Skipjack makes up about 70% of all 
canned or pouched tuna. It is the most 
caught tuna in the world.
SHORTSPINE 
SPURDOG
Squalus mitsukurii
A type of dogfish found along the continental 
shelves, it gives birth to live young after a 
two-year gestation period.
BIGEYE 
SMOOTH-HEAD
Bajacalifornia megalops
The genus was first discovered in 1911 off the 
coast of the Baja California peninsula, where 
its Latin name comes from.
PYGMY SEAHORSE
Hippocampus bargibanti
It is nearly indistinguishable from the coral 
where it is found because of its tiny size and 
specialized camouflage.
2cm
HONEYCOMB 
SCALY DRAGONFISH
Stomias affinis
This fish can be found in deep waters 
during the day and in shallower areas at 
night, where it searches for food.
WOLFFISH
Anarhichas lupus
Males of this species guard new eggs, 
hardly feeding as they do. Their bite can 
crush the hard shells of mollusks.
EXAMPLE: First, activate any end-game fish that don’t reward points 
(there are none in this ocean). Then score each of the other categories:
1. Score 3 points for the yellow ability on the Abyssal Anglerfish.
2. Score 46 points for the printed points on all visible fish.
3. Score 4 points for all consumed fish (3 forage fish and 1 fish card 
under the Atlantic Wolffish).
4. Score 7 points for all eggs and young.
5. Gain 18 points for all schools.
Add these points to your previously noted achievement points to 
calculate your final score.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 8
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 8

IMPORTANT NOTES
SCHOOL TOKENS
A school forms whenever 3 or more young share the same slot in your ocean. 
When this occurs, immediately return 3 young from that slot to the supply and 
replace them with 1 school token (shown as this icon in the game: 
	 •	You may never have more than 1 school in the same slot. If you have 3 or 
more young in a slot with a school, nothing happens.
	 •	If you have 3 or more young in a slot with a school and then move that 
school, 3 of those young immediately form another school where they are.
	 •	If you attempt to move a young through a slot that has 2 young in it (and no school), a school will 
form (and that move will end).
	 •	A school may not enter or move through a slot that already has a school in it.
Schools are worth 6 points each at the end of the game (as opposed to young, which are only worth 
1 point each). Once a school has been formed, it may not be broken up into individual young again.
PERSONAL DISCARD PILES
Whenever you pay cards from your hand as a cost to play a fish, place 
those cards face up into your personal discard pile. (There is no shared 
discard pile.)
	 •	The main function of your discard pile is for the 
 benefit, which 
allows you to gain any card from your discard pile to your hand.
	 •	Turn your discard pile sideways (as shown) and place it on the 
opposite side of your ocean mat, so you don’t accidentally confuse it 
with your open hand of cards.
	 •	The cards in discard piles are public knowledge for all players.
	 •	The order of your discard pile does not matter; you may reorder it whenever you’d like.
	 •	EMPTY FISH DECK: In the unlikely event that the global fish deck is ever empty, shuffle all players’ 
discard piles together to form a new deck.
FISH ABILITIES
The vertical area on the right side of fish cards shows the fish’s ability. Benefits from fish abilities are 
optional for each affected player.
	 WHEN PLAYED: Gain this benefit when you play a fish (after all other “play a fish” steps).
	 IF ACTIVATED: Gain this benefit during a dive turn when your diver moves onto this card. 
	 GAME END: Gain this benefit at the end of the game. 
	
ALL PLAYERS: Each player may decide whether to gain the benefit (others may gain the benefit 
even if you choose not to).
FORAGE FISH
The fish printed on your ocean mat are forage fish. They count as fish (
) for 
dive site bonuses and achievements, and they may be consumed by fish cards 
(either by choice or as a cost requirement). Consumed forage fish count as 
consumed fish for achievements and end-of-game scoring.
HAND
BLACK SWALLOWER
Chiasmodon niger
It can swallow prey up to ten times its size, 
coiling the other fish inside its distended 
stomach.
DISCARD
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 9
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 9

TAGS
Many fish have one or more tags beside their common name to indicate special features of that fish. 
Some achievement tiles provide bonus points for specific tags on fish in your ocean.
	 BIOLUMINESCENT 
: These fish emit light from their bodies. 
Bioluminescence is common in the deep sea, where sunlight is 
scarce.
	 CAMOUFLAGE 
: These fish have developed a means to hide 
or to blend in with objects in their surroundings to protect 
themselves and/or as a means of ambushing their prey.
	 ACTIVE ELECTROLOCATION 
: Many types of fish have passive 
electrolocation, but these fish actively use electrolocation, 
generating weak electric fields to find food, navigate, and 
perhaps even communicate.
	 ELECTRIC DISCHARGE 
: These fish can deliver a strong electric discharge that stuns prey or 
repels predators. Many also possess active electrolocation. They count for all electrolocation 
achievements and abilities.
	 PREDATOR 
: Nearly all fish are predatory to some degree, but these fish are more predatory by 
nature than most.
	 ÜBER PREDATOR 
: These predators are so fearsome and/or so large, they face little to no 
competition in their preferred habitat. They count for all predator achievements and abilities.
	 VENOMOUS 
: These fish produce natural toxins as a means of defending themselves.
OTHER ICONS
	 ESTUARIES 
: The slots in the very top row on your ocean 
mat are estuaries. These represent the tidal mouth of a large 
river, where the saltwater sea or ocean meets freshwater. 
This creates brackish water, saltier than freshwater, but 
not as salty as seawater. Some marine life can thrive in 
brackish water, or even freshwater. Some fish cards in future 
expansions may only be played here, but you can place any 
Sunlight Zone fish here.
	 DEEPWATER 
: Some fish can thrive at extreme depths. This 
icon indicates the slots in the very bottom row of your ocean 
mat. Some fish cards may only be played here, but you can 
place any Midnight Zone fish here.
ifif
(there are 
there are 
ANGELSHARK
Squatina squatina
The angelshark is an ambush predator, 
camouflaging itself on the sea floor until 
prey gets close.
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 10
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 10

MARINE SCIENCE
Throughout the design of this game, we have made every effort to be true to the science of marine 
biology. We carefully selected fish to represent the broad diversity that exists in the oceans, and we 
consulted with marine biologists. However, we did take some artistic license on some aspects for the 
sake of gameplay.
Here are a few caveats and explanations for some of those aspects:
	 ZONES: The designation of Sunlight (0 to 200 meters), Twilight (200 to 1,000 meters), and Midnight 
(1,000+ meters) are actual classifications, but the habitable zones of many fish are often not 
entirely known.
	 CONSUMING OTHER FISH: While size is a major contributor, it isn’t the only factor involved in determining 
which fish may eat another. Some fish even prey on others that are many times their own size. (And 
some don’t eat other fish at all.) For ease of gameplay, we simply went with length to designate a 
fish’s size, even though many fish are larger than others that are longer than they are.
	 EGGS: Many fish give birth to live young or lay eggs in special egg cases (colloquially called a 
“mermaid’s purse”). We have used eggs to represent all these processes.
	 SCHOOLS: Many species of fish, especially deep-sea fishes, live a more solitary life and do not form 
schools. The young in the game are not necessarily the offspring of the fish card on which they 
reside.
Thank you to the wonderful and insightful marine experts who reviewed every fish for scientific 
accuracy, including a special thank you to Alex Marks and Brynn Devine! We are also grateful for RM, 
who created the initial list of fish and some core concepts for Finspan.
Photographers:
Dr Adelma Hills
Todd Aki
John Turnbull
Solvin Zankl
Sylvi
Benoit Lallement 
OCEANA / Carlos Minguell © LIFE BaĦAR for N2K.
Arjan Haverkamp
Barry Fackler
François Libert
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 11
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 11

Play a fish from your hand on an empty 
or occupied slot on your ocean mat after 
paying its cost.
As a cost: The card being played must be 
placed on top of a shorter fish (card or forage).
As a benefit: This fish consumes a shorter 
fish from your hand (tuck it underneath).
Gain any card from your discard pile to 
your hand. If you have none remaining, 
draw the top card of the deck instead.
Put an egg on each of your fish that 
doesn’t already have one in the location 
shown or with the characteristic shown (at 
least one icon).
Move 1 young or 1 school any number of 
slots in a straight line in your ocean. A 
school may not enter or pass through a 
slot with another school.
Each player may gain the benefit shown 
(even if the active player chose not to 
gain it).
As a cost: Discard a fish card from your hand.
As a benefit: Draw a fish card from the deck.
As a cost: Discard an egg from a fish. 
As a benefit: Put an egg on a fish (in your 
ocean) that doesn’t already have one.
Hatch one of your eggs. (Flip over the egg 
token so the young side is face up.)
A school forms when 3 young are on the 
same slot (replace the young with a school 
token).
As a cost: Discard a school token from 
your ocean.
As a cost: Discard a young from your 
ocean.
As a benefit: Put a young on any fish 
or open slot in your ocean.
You may only play this fish below the 
dive site that matches the color band 
of its ability (blue, purple, or green).
© 2025 Stonemaier LLC. Finspan is a trademark of Stonemaier LLC. All Rights Reserved.
ABILITY ICONOGRAPHY
WANT TO WATCH A HOW-TO-PLAY VIDEO OR READ THE FAQ?
Go to stonemaiergames.com/games/finspan/rules-faq
HAVE A QUESTION WHILE PLAYING OR A STORY TO SHARE?
Post it on the Finspan Facebook group, on BoardGameGeek, or 
in the Finspan channel of the Stonemaier Games Discord server: 
stonemaiergames.com/discord
NEED A REPLACEMENT PART?
Request it at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts
WANT TO STAY IN TOUCH?
Subscribe to monthly updates at stonemaiergames.com/e-newsletter
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 12
FS_Rulebook_r15.indd 12