What’s in the Box
• Wooden Game Board With 7 raised islands
• 25 Red “Fire” Pegs
• 25 Aqua “Ice” Pegs
• Rules	
Description of the Board
The board contains 7 raised triangular islands. Each 
island has 7 holes and the playing pegs fit into these 
holes. On each island, six lines and a circle connect 
the holes to make seven groups of three holes each. 
The islands themselves are also connected together 
in the same pattern.
The holes and islands are named according to their 
positions on the board: Top Corner, Left Ring, Center, 
Right Ring, Left Corner, Lower Ring, Right Corner.
Heat up your game night 
with this entertaining 
and quick to learn game. 
Capture three islands in 
a row, and win!
Designed by Jens-Peter Schliemann
Only One Will Prevail
FIRE ICE
•	 Ages 8 to Adult 
•	 2 Players
•	 20–30 Minutes 
per Game
R
and
TM

Note: The circle is just as valid as the lines.
The 7 ways to control an island.
Note: The players will have other pieces on the board as well.
Three different examples of 
controlling 3 islands to win.
Setting Up
Choose colors. One player takes FIRE (red pegs), the 
other takes ICE (aqua pegs).
Place the red pegs in the pocket at the upper left 
corner of the board under the word “FIRE.” Similarly, 
place the aqua pegs in the upper right pocket under 
the word “ICE.” Position the board so that you are 
near the pocket containing your opponent’s pegs.
The player controlling FIRE puts a red peg in the 
middle of the center island.
Playing the Game
FIRE, with the single peg in the center, moves first. 
Then ICE plays. Play continues with FIRE and ICE 
taking turns alternately. Each turn brings a new peg 
into play. Before long, the players gain control of the 
individual islands. Passing is not allowed.
Each turn consists of two parts:
1.	Move one of your pegs from an occupied hole to an 
allowed empty hole as explained under Allowed 
Movements.
2.	Take one of your opponent’s pegs from the supply 
pocket and place it into the hole your peg just 
vacated.
The Object of Fire and Ice
The first player to control three islands connected by 
a line, or the circle, wins the game. You control an in-
dividual island when, on that island, three of your 
pegs are connected by a line, or the circle.

SAME ISLAND: You may move your peg to 
any open hole in the same island.
Example: 1. Within an island, ICE moves an 
aqua piece from the left corner to the center. 
2. Then ICE puts FIRE’s red piece in the left 
corner position.
SAME POSITION: You may move your peg 
to an empty hole in another island, keeping 
the same relative position the peg had on the 
island it just left.
Example: 1. ICE moves an aqua peg from the 
left corner position on one island to the same 
relative position on another island. 
2. To complete the turn, ICE puts one of FIRE’s 
red pegs into the hole just vacated on the origi-
nal island.
Strategy and Tactics
•	 Only one player can control an island at one time. If 
you have three pegs controlling an island, your oppo-
nent can not simultaneously form a controlling triplet 
there. If you have additional pegs on such an island, 
you can safely move them to other islands knowing 
that you will remain in control of the original island.
• You generally want to control an island whenever you 
can, but controlling the right islands is just as impor-
tant as controlling the most islands. Often, the critical 
island is one both players need to gain the upper 
hand. It is usually at the intersection of lines extend-
ing from the most strongly held pairs of islands.
• You must balance gains and losses in contested areas. 
If an island is not yet controlled, the player with the 
majority of pegs on that island usually has a sizable 
advantage there. If you are at a big disadvantage on 
one island, you likely will be better off conceding 
control there so that you can make gains in other 
areas of the board.
• Sometimes you can get an advantage by giving up 
control of an island, even allowing your opponent to 
gain control there. You may find it more important to 
gain control of a different island, and may need to 
move a peg away from an island you already control 
in order to do so.
• Always consider how any move will shift the focus 
of the game. You must balance your strategy between 
attack and defense, and keep alert to the situations 
all over the board. The advantage can change quickly.
• Handicap: If one player is better than the other, you 
can place a few of the weaker player’s pegs on the 
board at the beginning of the game as a handicap. 
(No more than one per island.)
NOTE: The pattern of seven points, which are connected 
in triplets in seven ways, is called a Fano Plane, an ex-
ample of the mathematical structure known as a “finite 
plane.” Each point on the plane is mathematically identical 
to the others.
Allowed Movements
Only two kinds of movement are allowed:
Winning the Game
The first player to control three islands connected by 
a line or by the circle wins.

R
Solitaire
Setting Up
Place 14 pegs of each color randomly on the board. 
(See the diagram for an example.)
Object of the Game
To eliminate all the pegs but one.
Playing the Game
Play pegs of each color, in alternation. As in the 
two-player game, each peg move is limited either 
to the same island, or to the same relative position 
on another island.
However, unlike the two-player game, the moving 
peg must capture and replace a peg of the opposite 
color. You may not move a peg into an open hole.
Winning the Game
The game ends when you can no longer capture a 
peg with a legal move. If only one peg remains, 
you win.
is a trademark of Pin International Co., Ltd.
www.pintoys.com
Made in Thailand. Copyright © 2001, 2003
Pin International Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Produced under exclusive license from the author.
WARNING!
Choking Hazard. Small parts. Not for children under 3 years.
Out of the Box Publishing Inc.
PO Box 14317
Madison, WI 53708, USA
Distributed Exclusively by—
800.540.2304
800.637.4201 FAX
info@otb-games.com
MasterPiece Games
Distinctive Wooden Game Adventures
TM