R ULES OF P L AY
© 2014 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	2
2. Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	5
3. Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	6
4. Special Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	8
5. Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	10
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
by Mark Herman and Volko Ruhnke
6. Coup Rounds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	10
7. Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
8. Non-Player Factions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	12
Key Terms Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	21
Setup and Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	23
COIN Series, Volume IV

Jungle Province
Province Population (0)
Cambodia Border
Town
Support and Opposition 
marker holding box
Economic Value
Mekong River (LoC)
Lowland Province
Highway with 0 Economic 
Value
Control marker box
Line of Communication 
(LoC, a Highway)
Province Name
Jungle Province
City
City Population (6)
1.0 INTRODUCTION
Fire in the Lake is a 1- to 4-player board game depicting insurgent 
and counterinsurgent (COIN) conflict during the main US period 
in Vietnam, 1964-1972, up to the “Paris Peace”. Each player takes 
the role of a Faction seeking to set the fate of South Vietnam: the 
United States (US), North Vietnamese forces (NVA), the Republic 
of Vietnam forces (ARVN), or the southern communist Viet Cong 
(VC). Using military, political, and economic actions and exploit-
ing various events, players build and maneuver forces to influence 
or control the population, extract resources, or otherwise achieve 
their Faction’s aims. A deck of cards regulates turn order, events, 
victory checks, and other processes. The rules can run non-player 
Factions, enabling solitaire, 2-player, or multi-player games.
Fire in the Lake is Volume IV in the COIN Series of games that 
use similar rules to cover modern Insurgencies. The Playbook lists 
major rules differences from earlier volumes. 
Game set up is explained on pages 23-24 of this rule book. An 
index on pages 21-22 lists and defines key game terms. Sequences 
and options for player and non-player actions are summarized on 
several aid sheets. 
1.1 General Course of Play
Fire in the Lake—unlike many card-assisted war games—does not 
use hands of cards. Instead, cards are played from the deck one 
at time, with one card ahead revealed to all players. Each Event 
card shows the order in which the Factions become Eligible to 
choose between the card’s Event or one of a menu of Operations 
and Special Activities. Executing an Event or Operation carries 
the penalty of rendering that Faction Ineligible to do so on the next 
card. Coup cards mixed in with the Event cards provide periodic 
opportunities for instant wins and for activities such as collecting 
resources and influencing popular sympathies.
1.2 Components
A complete set of Fire in the Lake includes:
•	 A 22”x34” mounted game board (1.3).
•	 A deck of 130 cards (5.0).
•	 229 olive, bright blue, red, yellow, and orange wooden playing 
pieces, many embossed (1.4; see “Forces Pool” on the Spaces 
List sheet for a complete listing).
•	 7 embossed cylinders (1.8, 2.2).
•	 6 black and 6 white pawns (3.1.1).
•	 A sheet of markers.
•	 2 Sequence of Play and Spaces List sheets (1.4.1, 2.0, 6.0).
•	 4 Faction player aid foldouts (3.0, 4.0, 7.0).
•	 A Random Spaces and Non-player Events foldout (8.2, 8.4).
•	 2 Non-player Operations foldouts (8.5-8.8).
•	 3 6-sided dice—1 blue, 1 red, 1 yellow.
•	 A background play book.
•	 This rule book.
1.3 The Map
The map shows South Vietnam and nearby areas divided into various 
types of spaces.
1.3.1 Map Spaces. Map spaces include rural Provinces, Cities, and 
Lines of Communication (LoCs) that are either Highways or the 
Mekong river. All spaces—including LoCs—can hold forces. Towns 
are not spaces, merely boundaries between adjacent LoCs (1.3.6)
1.3.2 Provinces. Each Province shows a Population value (Pop) of 
0, 1, or 2 that affects victory via Support for or Opposition to the 
Saigon regime (1.6) or Control (1.7) and some Insurgent actions. 
Provinces are further distinguished as Highland, Lowland, or Jungle, 
affecting Counterinsurgent Sweeps (3.2.3), Assaults (3.2.4), and 
certain Events (5.0). 

1.3.3 Cities. Cities similarly show Population value of 1, 2, or 6. 
DESIGN NOTE: Each Population value represents about 500,000 
citizens of South Vietnam. 
1.3.4 LoCs. Each Line of Communication (LoC) space is either 
Highway (road) or Mekong (river) or both and shows an Economic 
value (Econ) of 0, 1, or 2 affecting ARVN Resource earnings (1.8, 
6.2.3) and Viet Cong Taxation (4.5.1). NOTE: LoCs are spaces! 
1.3.5 Foreign Countries. The map’s Provinces include parts of 
North Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. All other spaces are South 
Vietnam (“The South”). Only NVA and VC may stack in North 
Vietnam (1.4.2). US and ARVN may enter Laos or Cambodia spaces 
normally, but at risk of later removal (6.4.1).
1.3.6 Adjacency. Adjacency affects the movement of forces and 
implementation of certain Events. Any 2 spaces meeting one of the 
following conditions are adjacent:
•	 Spaces that border on (touch) one another.
•	 Provinces that would touch but for separation by a LoC.
•	 LoCs or Provinces separated by Towns.
NOTE: Towns are not spaces; they merely terminate LoCs (1.3.1).
ADJACENCY EXAMPLE: Quang Duc Province and Route 11 are 
adjacent via Da Lat, as are Quang Duc and Khanh Hoa across 
Route 21.
1.3.7 Coasts. Any spaces adjacent to blue ocean (including across 
a LoC) are coastal, affecting the Amphibious Landing, Operation 
Starlite, and USS New Jersey Events (5.0).
1.3.8 Overflow. Use “Overflow” boxes for 
pieces that exceed the room in a space on the 
map; place the lettered marker in that space. 
1.4 Forces
The wooden pieces represent the Factions’ various forces: US Troops 
(olive cubes), ARVN Troops (yellow cubes) and Police (orange 
cubes), NVA Troops (red cubes), NVA and VC Guerrillas, US and 
ARVN Special Forces (SF), and all Factions’ Bases. 
DESIGN NOTE: ARVN Police represent both urban police and 
rural militias such as Regional Forces and Popular Forces. US-led 
Irregulars include both CIDG counter-guerrillas and US special 
operations forces training them or operating on their own. Bases 
represent command, training, and supply facilities as well as polit-
ical administration.
1.4.1 Availability, Removal, and Out of Play. A “Force Pool” in-
ventory on the Spaces List sheet shows the number of pieces in the 
game. Keep forces Available for placement in the Faction’s Available 
Forces box (or the US-led Irregulars box). Place NVA and VC Bases 
in the highest- and US Bases and Troops in the lowest-numbered 
empty spaces to show the number of on-map Bases and Available 
US Bases and Troops to help track earnings (6.2) and victory (7.0). 
US and ARVN may have forces in the Out of Play box—neither 
Available nor on the map—and US forces can become Casualties 
(3.3.3, 4.4.2, 5.0, 6.5). Otherwise, forces removed from the map 
go to Available. 
•	 Unless otherwise instructed (by Event, 5.1.1), forces may only be 
placed from or replaced with those in the Available boxes. A piece 
to be replaced by a piece that is unavailable is simply removed 
(EXCEPTION: Infiltrate, 4.4.1). 
• Important: Players while executing an Operation, Special Ac-
tivity, or Event to place their own forces may take them from 
elsewhere on the map (including a Tunneled Base, losing the 
Tunnel marker, 1.4.4) if and only if the desired force type is not 
Available. EXCEPTION: The US player may do so only with 
US-led Irregulars and any ARVN forces, not with US Troops nor 
with US Bases. 
EXAMPLES: NVA without Available Guerrillas could remove its 
own during a Rally (3.3.1) to place them Underground. US Train 
could take Police from another space if none Available. 
1.4.2 Stacking. No more than 2 Bases (of any Factions) may occupy 
a single Province or City. Bases may not occupy LoCs. Only NVA 
and VC forces may occupy North Vietnam (1.3.5). 
•	 Placing (such as Bases via Train 3.2.1, Rally 3.3.1, Event 5.1.1, or 
Commitment 6.5) or moving forces may never violate stacking. 
1.4.3 Underground/Active. Guerrillas and Special Forces are 
either Underground—symbol end down—or Active—symbol end 
up. Actions and Events flip them from one to the other state. Bases, 
Troops, and Police are always Active. Always set up and place new 
Cubes:
NVA and VC
Guerrillas:
ARVN Rangers 
(Special Forces):
US-led
Irregulars
(Special Forces):
Bases:
US
TYPES OF FORCES
Police
NVA
US
NVA
VC

Guerrillas and SF Underground (including if replacing a piece). 
NOTE: Unless instructions specify “Underground” Guerrilla, it is 
sufficient to “Activate” already Active Guerrillas (they stay Active). 
Also, “moving” or “relocating” Guerrillas or SF does not affect 
Underground status unless specified.
 
1.4.4 Tunnels. Scenario Setup (2.1) and 
Events (5.0) designate certain VC or NVA 
Bases as Tunneled. Place an appropriate 
Tunnel marker on such a Base, never 
more than 1 Tunnel marker at a time per Base. Tunneled Bases are 
harder to remove by Operations or Events (3.2.4, 4.2.1, 4.2.3, 4.3.3, 
5.1.1). When a Tunneled Base is removed, so is the Tunnel marker. 
NVA can Infiltrate a VC Tunneled Base to make it NVA (4.4.1).
1.5 Players & Factions
The game may have up to 4 players, each as 1 or more Factions: 
the US (olive), the NVA (red), the ARVN (yellow and orange), or 
the VC (blue). In a 1-player game, the player plays US and ARVN 
together, or NVA and VC, or any 1 Faction (8.9). Leftover Factions 
are controlled either by rules section 8 as “Non-Players” or, if pre-
ferred with 2 or 3 players, as below.
No Non-Player Option: With 2 or 3 players, the players 
(rather than the Non-Player rules, 8.0) may control any leftover 
Factions:
•	 With 2 players, 1 player controls NVA and VC, the other US 
and ARVN.
•	 With 3 players, a single player controls NVA and VC or, if 
preferred, US and ARVN.
POLITBURO: A combined NVA/VC player uses the higher 
victory margin of the 2 Factions during Coup Rounds (winning 
if either meets its condition, 6.1, 7.2), but uses the lower of the 
2 after Final Coup (7.3). A combined NVA/VC player may not 
transfer Resources (1.5.2).
SOVEREIGNTY: A US/ARVN player uses the lower victory 
margin of the 2 Factions (7.3) and only causes play to end on 
a victory check (6.1, 7.2) if both are meeting their conditions.
DESIGN NOTE: NVA, VC, and ARVN pieces draw their colors as 
much as possible from their respective flags, US from the olive GI 
uniform.
1.5.1 Friends and Enemies. US and ARVN are Counterinsurgent 
(COIN) Factions and friendly to each other; NVA and VC are In-
surgents and friendly to each other. Counterinsurgents are enemy 
to Insurgents.
1.5.2 Negotiation. Players may make any mutual arrangements 
within the rules. All negotiations are open. The rules do not bind 
players to agreements. 
•	 The NVA and VC if separate players may voluntarily transfer 
Resources (1.8) to each other at any time that one of them is 
executing an Operation, Special Activity, or Event. 
1.6 Support and Opposition 
Support and Opposition affect victory and some operations and 
activities. 
1.6.1 Cities and Provinces with at least 1 Population (1.3.2-3) always 
show 1 of 5 levels of its populace’s Support for or Opposition to the 
Saigon regime that can shift during play: 
•	 Active Support.
•	 Passive Support.
•	 Neutral.
•	 Passive Opposition.
•	 Active Opposition.
1.6.2 Active Support or Opposition counts double Population for 
Total Support or Opposition—affecting US or VC victory (7.2-.3). 
Show Support or Opposition with markers placed in each City or 
Province. Show Neutral spaces by the absence of such markers. 
 
 
Neutral 
 
 
Total Support =
2 x Pop in Active Support + 1 x Pop in Passive Support
Total Opposition =
2 x Pop in Active Opposition + 1 x Pop in Passive Oppostion
NOTE: LoCs (1.3.4) and Pop 0 Provinces are always Neutral, never 
at Support or Opposition. 
1.7 Control
 
The 2 Counterinsurgent Factions together 
(US and ARVN) Control a Province or City 
if their pieces there combined exceed those 
of the other 2 Factions (NVA and VC) com-
bined. The NVA alone Control a Province or City if NVA pieces 
exceed all other pieces (including VC). Control affects certain ac-
tivities and victory. Adjust COIN Control and NVA Control markers 
as Control changes due to placement, removal, or movement of 
pieces. 
1.8 Resources, Aid, and Patronage
At any moment, each Faction except the US has between 0 and 75 
Resources that it uses to pay for Operations (3.0). During Coup 
Rounds (6.2.3), a level of Aid (between 0 and 75) is added to ARVN 
Resources. A level of Patronage (0 to 75) contributes to ARVN 
victory (7.0). Mark Resources, Aid, and Patronage on the edge 
track—for Resources, with a cylinder of that Faction’s color (1.5).
DESIGN NOTE: Patronage represents the wherewithal of the Saigon 
regime to reward its friends at the expense of the population, such 
as by diverting foreign aid—a means of governance that the US 
could view as corrupt.
1.8.1 Joint Operations. The US does not track its own 
Resources. Some US Operations (3.1) and US Pacifi-
cation (3.2.1, 6.3.1) spend ARVN Resources. The US 
may only spend those ARVN Resources that exceed 
the marked Total Econ level (1.3.4, 6.2.3). Only the ARVN Faction 
may spend ARVN Resources at or below Econ.

 
 
 
1.9 Victory Markers
Similarly track with markers on the edge track the following totals 
that affect victory (7.0).
•	 Total Support (1.6.2) plus the number of US Troops and Bases 
Available (1.4.1).
•	 Total Population Controlled by the NVA plus the number of NVA 
Bases on the map (1.7).
•	 Total Population Controlled by the COIN Factions (1.7) plus 
Patronage (1.8).
•	 Total Opposition (1.6.2) plus the number of VC Bases on the map.
NOTE: A marker on “The Trail” track records the efficiency level of 
the NVA’s North-to-South supply network (6.7). Twelve “Deception” 
markers are for victory-related optional rules (7.3). 
2.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
2.1 Set Up
Follow the instructions on the last 2 pages of this rule book to choose 
a scenario and various play options, assign Factions to players, 
prepare the draw deck, and set up markers and forces. 
2.2 Start 
Begin play by revealing the top card of the draw deck and placing 
it onto a played cards pile. Then reveal the next card on top of the 
draw deck. The card on the played card stack is played first; the card 
on top of the draw deck will be played next. NOTE: Players will see 
1 card ahead into the deck (2.3.7). All played cards and the number 
of cards in the draw deck are open to inspection.
RECORD STEPS: As the steps of each Event card play are complet-
ed, place a cylinder of the Faction’s color (1.5) into the Sequence 
of Play track’s appropriate box (or, for Coup Rounds [6.0], advance 
the Coup Card marker).
2.3 Event Card
When playing an Event card, up to 2 Factions will execute Opera-
tions or the Event.
•	 Factions whose cylinder is in the “Eligible” box receive these 
options in the left-to-right order of Faction symbols shown at top 
of the card. 
•	 Factions with cylinders in the “Ineligible” box do nothing. 
2.3.1 Eligibility. Factions that did not execute an Operation or Event 
on the previous card are Eligible (their cylinders will start the card 
in the “Eligible” box per 2.3.6). Factions that did are Ineligible. (All 
Factions start the game Eligible.) See also Free Operations, 3.1.2.
2.3.2 Faction Order. The Eligible Faction with the leftmost symbol 
in its color (skipping any Ineligible Factions) is the 1st Eligible to 
execute an Operation or Event or to Pass. The next leftmost is the 
2nd Eligible. NOTE: Light halos around some Faction symbols 
relate only to Non player instructions (8.4.1).
2.3.3 Passing. If a 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction (only!) opts to Pass, 
it remains Eligible for the next card and receives +1 Resource if 
an Insurgent Faction or adds +3 ARVN Resources if either COIN 
Faction. The next leftmost Eligible Faction then replaces the Passing 
Faction as the new 1st or 2nd Eligible Faction and receives the same 
options to execute or Pass. If the last (rightmost) Eligible Faction 
Passes, adjust cylinders (2.3.7) and play the next card.
2.3.4 Options for Eligible Factions. 
FIRST ELIGIBLE: If the 1st Eligible Faction does not Pass (2.3.3), 
it may execute either:
•	 An Operation (3.0)—with or without a Special Activity (4.0)—or
•	 The Event shown on the card. 
OPTIONS FOR 2ND ELIGIBLE: If the 2nd Eligible Faction does 
not Pass (2.3.3), it also may execute an Operation or possibly the 
Event, but its options depend on what the 1st Eligible Faction 
executed:
•	 Op Only: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an Operation, the 
2nd Eligible Faction may execute a Limited Operation (2.3.5). 
•	 Op & Special Activity: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed an 
Operation with a Special Activity, the 2nd Eligible Faction may 
execute a Limited Operation or instead execute the Event. 
•	 Event: If the 1st Eligible Faction executed the Event, the 2nd El-
igible Faction may execute an Operation, with a Special Activity 
if desired. 
NOTE: The game board and Sequence of Play aid sheet also show 
these options.
2.3.5 Limited Operation. A Limited Operation is an Operation in 
just 1 space, with no Special Activity. If the Limited Operation is a 
Patrol (3.2.2), Sweep (3.2.3), or March (3.3.2), it can involve pieces 
from multiple spaces but only 1 destination space. A Limited Oper-
ation counts as an Operation. (See also Non-player Operations, 8.1).
2.3.6 Adjust Eligibility. After the 1st and 2nd Eligible Factions 
complete all execution of Operations, Special Activities, and Events 
(or after all Eligible Factions instead have Passed), adjust cylinders 
on the Sequence of Play track as follows:
•	 Any Faction that did not execute an Operation or Event (and was 
not rendered Ineligible by an Event) to the “Eligible” box.
•	 Any Faction that executed an Operation (including a Limited 
Operation) or Event to the “Ineligible” box (unless otherwise 
specified by the Event; see also Free Operations, 3.1.2). 
PLAY NOTE: Some Events (5.0) will enable the executing Faction 
to remain Eligible or render other Factions Ineligible through the 
next card. As a reminder, mark a Faction thus remaining Eligible by 
placing its cylinder at the left edge of its Sequence of Play “Event” 
box. Mark a Faction thus rendered Ineligible by placing its cylinder 
with (under) the executing Faction’s, to show that it will be Ineligible 
for the next card.
2.3.7 Next Card. After adjusting Eligibility, move the draw deck’s 
top card onto the played card pile face-up and reveal the draw deck’s 
next card (even if the played card is Coup!, 2.4). Play the played 
card, proceeding with the appropriate sequence.
2.3.8 Pivotal Events. Each Faction begins the Medium and Full 
scenarios (only, 2.1) with a Pivotal Event card unique to it. Pivotal 
Events are a type of Event (5.0). A Faction may play its Pivotal 
Event to cancel a currently played Event card (including Eligibility 
order, 2.3) if:
•	 That Faction is Eligible, AND
•	 The red pre-condition on the card is met, AND

•	 The 1st Eligible Faction has not yet done anything, AND
•	 No Coup is showing as the next card (2.3.9).
PROCEDURE: The Faction interrupts the usual Sequence of Play 
by placing its Pivotal Event card on the played Event card and exe-
cuting the Pivotal Event. The new Eligibility sequence follows, and 
the Pivotal Event stays in the played card pile, as normal. 
TRUMPING PIVOTAL EVENTS: The VC may play its Pivotal 
Event on top of another Faction’s Pivotal Event, canceling it; 
ARVN may do so to US or NVA; NVA may do so to US; US may 
not do so. A canceled Pivotal Event card is returned to its owner 
for possible later use.
PLAY NOTES: The 1st Eligible Faction need not declare what it 
would execute before a Faction must decide whether to play its 
Pivotal Event. Place “Playable Pivotal Event” reminder markers 
on unplayed Pivotal Event cards for which preconditions are met.
2.3.9 Monsoon Season. On the last Event card before each Coup 
Card (2.4), Operations may not include Sweep (3.2.3, even via 
Advise, 4.2.1) nor March (3.3.2), US Air Strikes and Air Lifts are 
limited to 2 spaces (4.2.2-.3), and no Pivotal Events allowed (2.3.8). 
(But see 5.1.1 regarding Event text.)
NOTE: Keep the “Monsoon” marker near the deck and place it on 
the played Event card as a reminder while a Coup is showing as 
the next card.
2.4 Coup Card
If playing a Coup Card, first carry out any immediate instructions on 
the card. Then place the card in the box marked “RVN Leader” (see 
below). Finally, conduct a Coup Round (6.0), marking each phase 
on the Sequence of Play with the “Coup Card” marker.
2.4.1 RVN Leader. The top (most recently played) Coup card (or 
the “RVN Leader” box, if empty) shows the current Republic of 
Vietnam (RVN) Leader. Any lingering effects noted for that Leader 
are in effect, as if it is the text of a lingering executed Event (5.1, 
5.3, 5.4). If the most recently played card is “Failed Attempt”, place 
it underneath any previous Coup cards. NOTE: “Failed Attempts” 
cancel only “Duong Van Minh”. Minh is an RVN Leader but not 
a card. Minh thus does not count as a card in the RVN Leader box 
(such as for Pivotal Event pre-conditions, 2.3.8). “Nguyen Cao Ky” 
will affect Pacification beginning with that Coup Round (6.3.1).
2.4.2 Final Coup. If the last Coup card’s Round is completed without 
a victory (6.1), the game ends: determine victory by 7.3. 
NOTE: Each series of Event cards up to a Coup is a “Campaign”, 
representing 1-2 years of war.
3.0 OPERATIONS
3.1 Operations in General
A Faction executing an Operation (Op) chooses 1 of the 4 Opera-
tions listed on its Faction sheet and selects the map spaces (typically 
several) to be involved. Select a given space only once for a given 
Operation. 
Operations usually cost Resources (not Aid or Patronage,1.8), often per 
space selected; the paying Faction must have enough Resources to pay 
for the Operation, including in each selected space. The US does not 
spend Resources of its own; it sometimes spends ARVN Resources, 
but may not do so below the marked Total Econ (1.8.1, 6.2.3). 
The executing Faction chooses the order of the spaces in which 
the Operation is resolved, the enemy Factions (1.5) or pieces to be 
affected (targeted), and the friendly pieces to be placed, replaced, 
or moved. An Operation may target both enemies or just one and 
ignore the other. NOTE: Allied forces nevertheless protect the Bases 
of the other friendly Faction from Assault/Attack (3.2.4, 3.3.3). Once 
targeted, a Faction’s pieces are affected to the maximum extent pos-
sible. Actions affecting another Faction’s pieces, friendly or enemy, 
do not require that Faction’s permission.
3.1.1 Pawns. If desired, mark spaces selected for Operations (3.0), 
Special Activities (4.0), or other actions with white and black pawns. 
The pawns are for convenience, not a limit on play.
3.1.2 Free Operations. Certain Events (5.5) grant free Operations 
or Special Activities: they cost no Resources and, if executed by a 
Faction other than the one playing an Event, do not affect its El-
igibility (2.3.6). EXCEPTIONS: Pacification, Agitation, and Trail 
Improvement still cost Resources even if part of a free Operation 
(3.2.1, 3.3.1). Other requirements and procedures still apply unless 
modified by Event text (5.1.1, 5.5.). 
3.2 COIN Operations
 
The US and ARVN choose from Train, Patrol, Sweep, 
and Assault Operations. NOTE: These Factions never 
place or move pieces into North Vietnam (1.4.2). 
3.2.1 Train. Training adds ARVN forces and can build Support (1.6) 
or drop Patronage (1.8). NOTE: The US gets its Troops and Bases 
in and out of Vietnam via the Commitment Phase (6.5) and Events 
(5.0), not Operations. 
•	 ARVN may select any Provinces or Cities without NVA Control. 
•	 The US may select any Provinces or Cities that have US pieces.
•	 Either Faction spends 3 ARVN Resources only if it places any 
ARVN pieces (including replacing cubes with a Base). 
PROCEDURE: First, in those selected spaces desired, if US, place 
1-2 Irregulars or, at US Bases, 1-2 Rangers or up to 6 ARVN cubes 
(any combination of Troops and Police); if ARVN, place 1-2 Rang-
ers or up to 6 ARVN cubes at Cities or at US or ARVN Bases. If 
none of the desired ARVN pieces are Available (1.4.1), they may 
be taken from the map. Then, in 1 selected space (even if a Limited 
Operation, 2.3.5), if desired either:
•	 Pacify to remove any Terror marker and then to shift the space 
up to 2 levels toward Active Support. The space must have COIN 
Control and, if ARVN Training, both ARVN Troops and Police. 
(Unlike Pacification during the Support Phase, 6.3.1, the US does 
not need Troops and Police, only a US piece and COIN Control.) 
The Pacification costs 3 ARVN Resources per Terror marker 
removed and level shifted, even if the Training Operation was 
free (3.1.2, 5.5). OR
•	 If ARVN, replace any 3 ARVN cubes with 1 ARVN Base (within 
stacking,1.4.2). NOTE: Replacing cubes with a Base costs 3 ARVN 
Resources even if no cubes were placed. OR
•	 If US and the space is Saigon, transfer up to 3 Patronage to ARVN 
Resources.
3.2.2 Patrol. Patrolling protects LoCs by moving Troops or Police 
onto them and finding and removing Insurgents there. If ARVN, 
pay 3 Resources total (not per space); if US, the cost is 0. If a 
Limited Operation (2.3.5), all moving cubes must end on a single 
destination space. 

PROCEDURE: Move any number of your Faction’s cubes from 
any spaces. Each cube may move into any adjacent LoC or City 
and may keep entering adjacent LoCs or Cities until the player 
chooses to stop moving it or it enters a space with any NVA or VC 
piece. Then, in each LoC (whether or not a cube just moved there), 
Activate 1 enemy Guerrilla for each of your Faction’s cubes there. 
Then, if desired, Assault (3.2.4) in 1 LoC at no added cost. US may 
not add ARVN. If a Limited Operation (2.3.5), the Assault must be 
in the destination LoC.
3.2.3 Sweep. Sweeps may move Troops and can locate enemy Guer-
rillas. Select Provinces or Cities as destinations (not North Vietnam, 
1.4.2). If ARVN, pay 3 Resources per space selected; if US, 0. Sweep 
is not allowed in Monsoon (a Coup card showing as next, 2.3.9). 
PROCEDURE: First, move any of your Faction’s adjacent Troops 
desired into selected spaces. In addition, each group of Troops may 
first move onto an adjacent LoC (1.3.3) that is free of NVA/VC 
and then into an adjacent space. (Any Troops that move must reach 
spaces paid for as destinations.) 
•	 Then, in each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) 1 enemy Guerrilla 
for each of your cubes (moved or already there) or Special Forces 
(Irregulars for US, Rangers for ARVN).
•	 In Jungle spaces, Activate only 1 enemy Guerrilla for every 2 of 
your cubes or Special Forces (round odd totals down).
SWEEP EXAMPLE: ARVN selects Quang Duc for a Sweep. No LoCs 
have Guerrillas. Two Troops move from Cam Ranh onto Route 11 
and from there via Da Lat into Quang Duc Province. ARVN Troops 
in Binh Tuy – Binh Thuan also could enter Quang Duc. 
3.2.4 Assault. Assaults remove enemy pieces. Select any spaces with 
the executing Faction’s cubes and Insurgents (NVA or VC). ARVN 
pay 3 Resources per space. US Assault costs 3 ARVN Resources only 
if the US player opts to add an ARVN Assault in 1 US Assault space. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, remove enemy pieces per 
the number of cubes there, as follows.
•	 If an ARVN Assault, count only ARVN cubes. Remove 1 enemy 
piece for every 2 cubes there or every 3 in Highland (round down). 
In Cities or on LoCs, count Police as well as Troops; in Provinces, 
Troops only. For each Base removed (including via follow up to 
US Assault, below, or Advise, 4.2.1), add +6 Aid.
•	 If a US Assault, count US Troops. Remove 2 enemies per US 
Troops cube if the space has a US Base, or only 1 enemy for 
every 2 US Troops (round down) if Highland with no US Base, 
or otherwise 1 enemy piece for each US Troop. If desired, pay 
3 ARVN Resources to follow up with an ARVN Assault per the 
above bullet in 1 space where US Assault just occurred (no effect 
on ARVN Eligibility, 2.3.1).
TROOPS FIRST, BASES LAST: Remove any NVA Troops in an 
Assault space first, then any Active NVA or VC Guerrillas (Assault-
ing Faction chooses which first), then any Insurgent Bases only 
once no NVA nor VC Guerrillas remain. Remove no Underground 
Guerrillas (1.4.3). 
NOTE: Underground Guerrillas in a space prevent further removal 
via Assault of Bases until the Guerrillas are Activated. Also, non-
Base pieces protect the Bases of the other friendly Faction from 
Assault/Attack (3.3.3).
DESIGN NOTE: Guerrillas are less hard hitting than Troops but 
enjoy an information advantage in that counterinsurgents must 
Activate (locate) them before Assaulting them. 
TUNNELS: If the next piece to be removed would be a Base with a 
Tunnel marker (1.4.4), stop removing pieces from that space. Instead, 
roll a die: on a 1-3, do nothing further; on a 4-6, remove that Tunnel 
marker only (leave the Base in place). EXAMPLE: Three US Troops 
Assault 2 Tunneled Bases alone in Jungle. No pieces are removed. 
On a roll of 4-6, a Tunnel marker is removed from one Base.
3.3 Insurgent Operations
 
The NVA and VC choose from Rally, March, Attack, or 
Terror Operations.
3.3.1 Rally. Rally Operations augment friendly forces, recover VC, 
and build the Trail. Select any Provinces or Cities without Support 
(1.6). Pay 1 Resource per space selected. 
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, the executing Faction places 
1 of its Available Guerrillas or replaces 2 of its Guerrillas with 1 of 
its Bases (within stacking 1.4.2). If the space already has at least 1 
of that Faction’s Bases, the Faction may instead: 
•	 If NVA, place a number of its Guerrillas up to the sum of Trail 
value (6.7) plus the number of NVA Bases there. 
•	 If VC, place its Guerrillas up to the sum of the space’s Population 
value (1.3.2-.3) plus the number of VC Bases there OR flip all its 
Guerrillas there Underground (1.4.3). NOTE: VC may Agitate as 
well if it has the shaded “Cadres” Capability (5.3); that Agitation 
costs Resources even if the Rally was free (3.1.2, 5.5). 
Then, NVA with its Rally may spend another 2 Resources to Improve 
the Trail by 1 box (6.7, even if the Rally was a Limited Operation, 
2.3.5, or selected 0 spaces). Rally to Improve the Trail costs 2 even 
if the Rally was free (3.1.2, 5.5).
3.3.2 March. March Operations move Insurgent Guerrillas and 
Troops. Moving pieces may begin in any spaces. Pay 1 Resource 
per Province or City that Guerrillas or Troops move into (0 Re-
sources to move onto LoCs). A Limited Operation (2.3.5) March 
may select only a single destination space. March is not allowed in 
Monsoon (2.3.9).
PROCEDURE: The executing Faction moves any of its Guerrillas 
or Troops desired into adjacent spaces (1.3.6). Pieces moving from 1 
space to another move as a single group. Set Guerrillas of a moving 
group to Active (1.4.3) if: 
•	 The destination is a LoC or has any Support (1.6) AND
•	 The moving group’s number of pieces plus the number of US and 
ARVN cubes, Irregulars, and Rangers at the destination exceeds 3. 
EXAMPLE: Two Underground VC Guerrillas March from The 
Parrot’s Beak into Kien Phong, where there are 2 Police cubes and 
Support. The total of 4 relevant pieces at the destination exceeds 3, 
so the VC Guerrillas flip to Active.
THE TRAIL: Marching NVA Guerrillas and Troops (not VC) may 
continue moving into additional spaces (paying once only for each 
added destination) if the previous destination space was in Laos or 
Cambodia (1.3.5), the Trail value is above 0 (6.7), and the March is 
not a LimOp (2.3.5). Also, if the Trail value is 4, NVA March into 
or out of individual Laos or Cambodia spaces costs 0 Resources. 
NOTE: COIN Control does not stop such moves (1.7).
3.3.3 Attack. Attack Operations seek to eliminate enemy forces. 
Select any spaces where the executing Faction and an enemy have 
pieces; pay 1 Resource per space.

PROCEDURE: In each selected space, Activate (1.4.3) all the 
executing Faction’s Guerrillas and then roll a die: if the roll is less 
than or equal to the number of the executing Faction’s Guerrillas 
there (whether or not they began Active), remove up to 2 enemy 
pieces (executing Faction’s choice). The NVA may instead remove 
1 enemy piece per 2 NVA Troops there (round down, Activate no 
Guerrillas). Removed pieces may belong to different Factions and 
may be Underground Special Forces. 
•	 Do not remove US or ARVN Bases before any other pieces of 
either Faction in the space. 
CASUALTIES: Place any US pieces removed by Attack into the 
Casualties box. 
ATTRITION: For each US Troop cube or US Base removed, the 
Attacking Faction must remove 1 of its Attacking pieces (Troops 
or Guerrillas, whichever used) from the space. 
 
3.3.4 Terror. Terror Operations in Cities or Prov-
inces affect Support and Opposition (1.6) and 
place Terror markers that hinder future efforts to 
influence it. On LoCs, they place Sabotage markers that block ARVN 
Resource earnings (6.2.1). Select any spaces where the executing 
Faction has at least 1 Underground Guerrilla or, for NVA Terror, NVA 
Troop cube; pay 1 Resource per Province or City (0 for LoCs).
PROCEDURE: Activate 1 friendly Underground Guerrilla in each 
selected space (if any there). 
•	 If the space is a Province or City without a Terror marker, place 
a Terror marker. If VC, shift 1 level toward Active Opposition 
(1.6). If NVA, shift any Support 1 level toward Neutral. 
•	 If the space is a LoC without a Sabotage marker, place a Sabotage 
marker. 
•	 Do not place a Terror/Sabotage marker if all are already on the 
map. (There are 15.) 
NOTE: Terror Ops will not add Terror or Sabotage markers to 
spaces that already have them. (Certain events can do so, 5.1.1).
4.0 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
4.1 Special Activities in General 
When a Faction per the Event Card sequence of play (2.3) executes 
an Operation (3.0), it may also execute 1 type of its Special Activ-
ities (EXCEPTION: Limited Operations, 2.3.5). There is no added 
Resource cost for the Special Activity. As with Operations, the 
executing Faction selects spaces, Factions, or pieces affected and 
the order of actions. Select a given space only once as a location 
for a given Special Activity. (But see removal of adjacent pieces 
via Ambush from Road/River locations, 4.4.3). Events may grant 
free Special Activities (not further affecting Eligibility, 3.1.2, 5.5). 
• Important: A Faction may execute its Special Activity at any one 
time immediately before, during, or immediately after its Operation. 
EXAMPLE: The VC Rally until at 0 Resources, then pause to Tax 
and gain Resources, then continue to Rally in added spaces.
PLAY NOTE: If the 1st Eligible Faction uses a Special Activity, the 
2nd Eligible receives the option of executing the card’s Event, and 
vice versa (2.3.4). 
4.1.1. Accompanying Operations. Some Special Activities specify 
that they may only accompany certain types of Operations (3.0). 
Certain Special Activities either must occur or may not occur where 
their Accompanying Operations occurred. If not otherwise specified, 
Special Activities may accompany any Operations and take place 
in any otherwise valid spaces. 
4.2 US Special Activities
The US may choose from Advise, Air Lift, or Air Strike 
Special Activities.
4.2.1 Advise. Advise strikes with indigenous allied forces and can 
add to Aid (1.8). It may only accompany Training or Patrol (3.2.1-
.2) and take place in 1 or 2 spaces NOT selected for Training (never 
North Vietnam, 1.4.2).
PROCEDURE: In each selected space, either: 
•	 Sweep within the space with ARVN forces as if an ARVN Sweep 
there without movement (3.2.3, not in Monsoon, 2.3.9), OR
•	 Assault there as if ARVN Assault (3.2.4), OR
•	 Activate 1 Underground Irregular or Ranger there to remove 2 
enemy pieces. Bases may only be removed once no other enemy 
pieces are there. Tunneled Bases (1.4.4) may not be removed 
(Underground Guerrillas may).
Then, if desired, add +6 Aid total (to max of 75).
4.2.2 Air Lift. Air Lift moves Troops, especially to mass them 
quickly for an Operation. 
PROCEDURE: Move any US Troops and up to 4 ARVN Troops, 
Rangers, or Irregulars among any 4 spaces (2 spaces during Mon-
soon, 2.3.9; not North Vietnam, 1.4.2).
4.2.3 Air Strike. Air Strike destroys exposed Insurgent units. It may 
take place in up to 6 spaces (2 spaces during Monsoon, 2.3.9), each 
with any US or ARVN piece in it.
PROCEDURE: Remove a total of up to 6 Active enemy pieces 
(6 pieces even during Monsoon) from among the selected spaces. 
Remove Bases only from spaces where no other Insurgent pieces 
remain. Remove no Underground Guerrillas nor Tunneled Bases. 
Shift each space selected 1 level toward Active Opposition (if a 
Province or City with at least 1 Population, 1.6.1). Then, if desired, 
Degrade the Trail by 1 box (6.7), even if 0 pieces removed.
4.3 ARVN Special Activities
The ARVN chooses from Govern, Transport, or Raid Special 
Activities. 
4.3.1 Govern. Governing adds Aid or extracts Patronage from Aid 
and Support. It may only accompany Training or Patrol (3.2.1-.2) 
and take place in 1 or 2 COIN-Controlled Provinces or Cities (1.7) 
with any level of Support (1.6) NOT Saigon NOR selected for 
Training. NOTE: ARVN may Train and Govern but not in the same 
space during the same Op.
PROCEDURE: In each space, either:
•	 Add 3 times the space’s Population to Aid (to a maximum of 75), 
OR
•	 Transfer its Population value (times 1) from Aid to Patronage 
(max 75) and shift the space 1 level toward Neutral. There must 
be more ARVN cubes (Troops and Police total) than US cubes 
(Troops) in the space. 
DESIGN NOTE: South Vietnamese officials may Govern benignly 
to attract more foreign aid, or less benignly to divert more aid to 
associates.

4.3.2 Transport. Transport moves Troops and Rangers, to take 
control of countryside, for example, and prepares Rangers for Raids. 
PROCEDURE: Select 1 space and move up to 6 ARVN Troops and/
or Rangers from there onto 1 or more adjacent LoCs, if desired. 
They may continue to move along adjacent LoCs or through Cities 
and then, if desired, into any adjacent destinations (not North Viet-
nam, 1.4.2). They must stop at any NVA or VC pieces. Then flip all 
Rangers anywhere on the map to Underground.
4.3.3 Raid. Raiding repositions and strikes with the ARVN’s special 
forces—Rangers. It may only accompany Patrol, Sweep, or Assault 
(3.2.2-.4) and take place in 1 or 2 spaces.
PROCEDURE: Each selected space, move in any adjacent Rang-
ers desired (keeping them either Underground or Active). Then, if 
desired, Activate an Underground Ranger in each space to remove 
2 enemy pieces. Bases may only be removed once no other enemy 
pieces are there. Tunneled Bases (1.4.4) may not be removed (Un-
derground Guerrillas may). 
4.4 NVA Special Activities
The NVA choose from Infiltrate, Bombard, or Ambush Spe-
cial Activities.
4.4.1 Infiltrate. Infiltration enables the NVA to build up its conven-
tional forces or to take over VC forces. It also erodes Opposition. 
It may only accompany Rally or March (3.3.1-.2). Infiltrate 1 or 2 
spaces that have either an NVA Base or more NVA pieces than VC 
pieces. 
PROCEDURE: In each space, either—
•	 If NVA Base(s), place NVA Troops up to the Trail value (6.7) plus 
the number of NVA Bases there, then replace any NVA Guerrillas 
desired 1 for 1 with added NVA Troops, OR
•	 If NVA outnumber VC, shift any Opposition there by 1 level to-
ward Neutral. Then replace any 1 VC piece desired with its NVA 
counterpart. If replacing a VC Tunneled Base, flip the Tunnel 
marker from VC to NVA. In order to remove VC, NVA must have 
or make Available the NVA counterpart (1.4.1) and place it in the 
VC’s place.
DESIGN NOTE: Infiltration of Northerners could dampen local 
revolutionary zeal, as Hanoi’s interference replaced Saigon’s.
4.4.2 Bombard. Bombardment imposes losses on concentrated 
enemy troops. It may occur in 1 or 2 spaces with any combination 
of at least 3 ARVN and/or US Troops (Police and Special Forces 
do not count) or with any US or ARVN Base. Each space also must 
have in it or be adjacent to a space with at least 3 NVA Troops.
PROCEDURE: Remove 1 US or ARVN Troop cube from each 
selected location, if US, to the Casualties box. 
4.4.3 Ambush. Ambush enables the NVA to Attack on the move, 
ensure the success of Attacks, and avoid attrition and exposure of 
their Guerrillas. It may take place in 1 or 2 spaces selected and paid 
for as March destinations (0 cost for LoCs, 3.3.2) or for Attack by 
NVA Guerrillas (3.3.3, not yet resolved). At least 1 NVA Guerrilla 
that Marched into or will Attack in each space must be Underground 
(1.4.3). A free Ambush per an Event (5.5) occurs as if an Attack in 
the space. 
NOTE: Ambush accompanying Attack modifies that Attack in that 
space rather than adding a second Attack there.
PROCEDURE: The NVA Attack in each selected location (at no add-
ed cost in Resources). Instead of the usual Attack procedure (3.3.3), 
the Attacks in those spaces each remove only 1 enemy piece (Bases 
last) but Activate 1 Underground Guerrilla only and automatically 
succeed (do not roll; remove the enemy piece normally). Also, do 
not remove any NVA pieces even if US Troops removed.
ROAD/RIVER: If a selected Ambush space is a LoC (1.3.4), NVA 
may remove the enemy piece from any adjacent space instead (Bases 
last), even where another target was just removed.
EXAMPLE: An NVA Guerrilla Ambushing on the 2-Econ Mekong 
could remove 1 enemy from either the Mekong, Kien Phong, Kien 
Hoa, Can Tho, or Saigon. Selecting Kien Phong would not prevent 
a 2nd NVA Guerrilla Ambushing there from also removing an en-
emy piece.
4.5 VC Special Activities
The VC may choose from Tax, Subvert, or Ambush Special 
Activities. 
4.5.1 Tax. Taxation enables the VC to gain Resources from areas 
they inhabit. They may Tax up to 4 spaces that have Underground 
VC Guerrillas and no COIN Control (1.7).
NOTE: There is no COIN Control of LoCs, so VC can Tax there 
even if outnumbered. VC can Tax Sabotaged LoCs. 
PROCEDURE: For each space, Activate 1 Underground VC Guer-
rilla there (1.4.3). Add the space’s Econ value or twice its Population 
(1.3.2-.4) to VC Resources (1.8). If a Province or City, shift it 1 level 
toward Active Support.
4.5.2 Subvert. Subversion replaces ARVN pieces with VC Guerrillas 
and saps Patronage. It may only accompany Rally, March, or Terror 
(3.3.1, -.2, -.4). It may occur in any 1 or 2 spaces with at least 1 
Underground VC Guerrilla and any ARVN cubes.
PROCEDURE: In each space, remove any 2 ARVN cubes or replace 
1 there with a VC Guerrilla. Then drop Patronage, -1 for every 2 
ARVN pieces removed (or replaced) total (rounded down).
4.5.3 Ambush. VC Ambushes the same as NVA (4.4.3) but using 
VC Guerrillas instead.

5.0 EVENTS
Each Event bears a title, Period Event year (2.1), italicized flavor 
text, and Event text. Flavor text provides historical interest and has 
no effect on play.
5.1 Executing Events
When a Faction executes an Event, it carries out the Event text 
literally and in order (sometimes involving actions or decisions by 
other Factions). Unless otherwise specified, the executing Faction 
makes all selections involved in implementing the text, such as which 
pieces are affected or which Faction will execute a free Operation 
(5.5). If another Faction is specified or selected to take an action, that 
Faction decides the details of the action. Some Events with lasting 
effects have markers as aids to play. NOTE: RVN Leaders (2.4.1) 
have text that follows the same general rules below as Event text. 
5.1.1 Where Event text contradicts rules, the Event takes precedence. 
EXAMPLE: NVA executing “Plei Mei” could March as directed 
even during Monsoon (2.3.9). However: 
•	 Events may not violate stacking (and so never place Bases where 
already 2, nor US or ARVN forces into North Vietnam, 1.4.2). 
•	 Events place only available pieces (1.4.1) and markers unless 
specifying from out of play or Casualties; they remove rather than 
replace if the replacement is not Available or if stacking (1.4.2) 
would be violated. 
•	 Events do not force removal of Tunneled Bases unless removal 
of Tunneled Bases is explicitly stated (1.4.4). A Faction may opt 
to remove its own Tunneled Base to fulfill Event text.
•	 Events may not raise Resources, Aid, or Patronage beyond 75 (1.8).
5.1.2 If two Events contradict, the currently played Event takes 
precedence. EXAMPLE: US could Air Lift with “MACV” even 
with “Typhoon Kate” in effect because MACV directs that “US ... 
executes any 1 free Special Activity”.
5.1.3 An executed Event’s text that can be implemented must be. 
If not all of its text can be carried out, implement that which can.
5.1.4 Pivotal Events are Events that have preconditions for play and 
preempt other Event cards, including Faction order. The executing 
Faction must select the Event to play the Pivotal Event card. (See 
2.3.8.)
5.2 Dual Use
Many Events have both unshaded and shaded Event text. The exe-
cuting Faction may select either the unshaded or shaded text to carry 
out (not both). While the unshaded text often favors the Counterin-
surgents, a player may select either text option regardless of Faction.
DESIGN NOTE: Dual-use events represent opposed effects of the 
same cause, forks in the historical road, or instances subject to 
alternative historical interpretation.
5.3 Capabilities 
 
Dual-use Events marked “US CAPABILI-
TIES”, “VC CAPABILITIES”, and so on 
have lasting effects mainly relating to that 
Faction. When executing such an Event, 
place the corresponding marker on the appropriate side (unshaded 
or shaded) in the Capabilities box. The Event’s effects last for the 
rest of the game.
PLAY NOTE: Set out executed Capabilities Event cards near the 
affected player(s) as added reminders.
5.4 Momentum
Event text (unshaded, shaded, or both) marked “MOMENTUM” 
also includes lasting effects. When executing such text, place the 
card in view near the draw pile. It has effects specified to last until 
the next Coup round’s Reset phase (6.5), when the card is discarded. 
NOTE: Any number of Momentum Events can be in play.
 
MARKERS: Place the “Medevac” marker on its 
appropriate side onto the Event card while in 
effect to record which use applies. Place the 
“Peace Talks” marker on the “Linebacker II” Pivotal Event card if 
unshaded Peace Talks executed and Linebacker II not.
5.5 Free Operations
Some Events allow the Executing or another Faction an immediate 
Operation or Special Activity that interrupts the usual sequence of 
play and typically is free: it bears no Resource cost and does not af-
fect Eligibility (3.1.2, 2.3.1), though other procedures and restrictions 
remain unless modified by Event text (5.1.1). NOTE: Pacification, 
Trail Improvement, and Agitation cost Resources even if part of free 
Operations (3.2.1, 3.3.1). A free Ambush Special Activity occurs as 
if an Attack is occuring in the space (4.4.3). 
EXAMPLE: NVA free March (3.3.2) would cost 0 Resources and not 
affect NVA Eligibility. Free Raid (4.3.3) would have to Activate an 
Underground Ranger to remove enemies. 
6.0 COUP ROUNDS
Conduct a Coup Round in the sequence of phases below 
as each Coup Card is played, first following any imme-
diate Coup effect (2.4) and adjusting Control (1.7). The 
Sequence of Play sheet and board also list this sequence. 
EXCEPTION: Never conduct more than 1 Coup Round in a row 
(without at least 1 Event card in between)—instead, additional 
Coup cards are played (including any new RVN Leader and any 
immediate effect) without a Coup Round. If final (2.4.2), end the 
game, determine victory (7.3). 
Period Event (Set Up Option)
Card Number
Faction Order
Title
Italicized Flavor Text
Event Text
Lasting Effects Indicator (5.3)
Shaded Text (see Dual Use 5.2)
NOTE: Light halos around some Faction symbols regard Non-player 
instructions (8.4.1).

pieces to Available boxes.
DESIGN NOTE: The removal from Laos and Cambodia represents 
the political cost of too lengthy an operation inside a neutral country.
6.4.2 ARVN Redeploy. The ARVN must move its Troops from 
LoCs and Provinces without COIN Bases—and may move any 
other ARVN Troops—to any Cities without NVA Control, any US 
or ARVN Bases, or Saigon. ARVN then may move any Police to 
any LoCs or to any COIN Controlled spaces within South Vietnam. 
NOTE: US forces do not Redeploy.
6.4.3 NVA Redeploy. The NVA then may move NVA Troops (only) 
from any map spaces to any NVA Bases (even COIN Controlled). 
 
6.4.4 Control. Now adjust COIN and NVA 
Control (1.7) to reflect the above moves. 
6.4.5 Game End? If and only if this is the final Round (2.4.2), end 
and determine victory (7.3).
6.5 Commitment Phase
If not the final Round, take 1 in 3 (round down) US Troop and all 
Base Casualty pieces out of play. Put all other US Casualties into 
Available boxes. The US then may move up to 10 US Troops and 
2 US Bases among the US Available box, any COIN-Control spac-
es, LoCs, and Saigon. Adjust any changes in Control and Victory 
markers (1.9) at the end of the Phase.
NOTE: Commitment is the main time that the US “commits” forces 
from Available to South Vietnam or “withdraws” them the other way.
6.6 Reset Phase
Then prepare for the next card as follows:
•	 If the Trail (6.7) is at 0, Improve it to 1; if it is at 4, Degrade it to 3. 
•	 Remove all Terror and Sabotage markers (3.3.4). 
•	 Flip all Guerrillas and SF Underground (1.4.3). 
•	 Place any Momentum cards that were in effect onto the played 
cards—their Events’ effects no longer apply (5.4). 
•	 Mark all Factions Eligible (2.3.1). 
•	 Play the next card from the draw deck and reveal the draw deck’s 
new top card (2.3.9). 
6.7 The Trail
The (“Ho Chi Minh”) Trail track shows the efficiency 
of land and water resupply from North to South Vietnam 
as a value from 0 to 4—affecting NVA Rally (3.3.1), 
March (3.3.2), Infiltration (4.4.1), and Earnings (6.2.4). 
Improving the Trail raises the value; Degrading it decreases the value 
(slide the Trail marker along the boxes). Rally (3.3.1), Air Strike 
(4.2.3), US/ARVN incursions into Laos or Cambodia (6.2.2), Coup 
Round Reset (6.6), and Events (5.0) all can affect the Trail value.
DESIGN NOTE: Trail Degradation represents not only strikes on the 
Ho Chi Minh Trail itself but also on sea transport and North Vietnam.
6.1 Victory Phase
If any Faction has met its Victory condition, the game ends (excep-
tions: Non-player option [1.5]; 1-player [8.9]). See Victory (7.0) 
to determine winner and rank order. Otherwise, continue with the 
Coup Round. After conducting the final Coup card’s Round (2.4.2), 
determine victory per 7.3.
6.2 Resources Phase
Follow these steps to add to Factions’ Resources to a maximum of 
75 (1.8). 
6.2.1 Sabotage. Sabotage (3.3.4) each unSabotaged LoC where 
Insurgent Guerrillas outnumber COIN pieces or adjacent to a City 
without COIN Control (until no Sabotage markers remain, VC 
chooses which spaces first). 
6.2.2 Degrade Trail. If any Laos or Cambodia space is COIN-Con-
trolled, Degrade the Trail by 1 box (6.7).
6.2.3 ARVN Earnings. Add the Aid value to ARVN 
Resources. Then add as well the Economic value (1.3.4) 
of all LoCs that have no Sabotage (Total Econ, 15 
minus the Econ value of any Sabotaged LoCs) and 
adjust the “Econ” marker to show that unSabotaged Econ (affecting 
US spending of ARVN Resources during the coming Campaign, 
1.8.1).
6.2.4 Insurgent Earnings. Add to Resources:
•	 VC—The number of VC Bases on the map. 
•	 NVA—The number of NVA Bases in Laos and Cambodia, plus 
2 times the Trail value (6.7). 
6.2.5 Casualties and Aid. Finally, subtract from Aid 3 times the 
number of pieces in the Casualties box (3.3.3).
6.3 Support Phase
US, ARVN, and VC may spend Resources to affect popular Support 
and Opposition (1.6).
6.3.1 Pacification. The US and then ARVN may spend ARVN Re-
sources to build Support in a combined total of up to 4 Provinces 
and/or Cities. EXAMPLE: If the US Pacifies in 3 spaces, ARVN may 
do so in only 1; if US in 4, ARVN in none; etc. Each space must have 
COIN Control, Police, and the Pacifying Faction’s Troops. Every 3 
ARVN Resources spent removes a Terror marker or—once no Terror 
is in a space—shifts the space 1 level toward Active Support, to a 
maximum of 2 levels per space total during each Support Phase (not 
per Faction). The US may not spend Resources below marked Total 
Econ (1.8.1, 6.2.3). (See also Training, 3.2.1)
DESIGN NOTE: Troops and Police or local militias together provide 
the security needed to gain popular support. 
6.3.2 Agitation. VC may spend Resources to encourage Opposition 
in up to 4 spaces with VC pieces and no COIN Control (1.7). Every 
1 VC Resource they spend removes a Terror marker or—once no 
Terror is in a space—shifts the space 1 level toward Active Oppo-
sition, to a maximum of 2 levels per space.
6.4 Redeploy Phase
Redeploy forces as follows without adjusting COIN or NVA Control 
until afterwards.
6.4.1 Laos and Cambodia. Remove all US and ARVN pieces from 
Laos and Cambodia—US Troops to the out of play box, all other 

7.0 VICTORY 
Each Faction has unique victory conditions, covered below and on 
the Faction aid sheets.
7.1 Ranking Wins and Breaking Ties 
If any Non-player Faction (8.0) passes a victory check (7.2), all 
players lose equally. Otherwise, whenever any player does so or 
if none does by game end, the Faction that reached the highest 
victory margin (7.3) comes in 1st place, 2nd highest comes in 2nd 
place, and so on. Ties go to Non-players (8.0), then the VC, then 
the ARVN, then the NVA. 
7.2 During Coup Rounds
Check victory at the start of each Coup Round (6.1), comparing 
the positions of the various victory markers (1.9) to the thresholds 
marked on the edge track. Victory conditions are:
•	 US: Total Support (1.6.2) plus the number of Troops and Bases 
in the US Available Forces box exceeds 50. 
•	 NVA: Total NVA-Controlled Population plus the number of NVA 
Bases on the map exceeds 18. 
•	 ARVN: Total COIN-Controlled Population plus Patronage 
exceeds 50.
•	 VC: Total Opposition (1.6.2) plus number of VC Bases on the 
map exceeds 35.
7.3 After Final Coup 
If the final Coup Round (2.4.2) is completed without a victory 
check win (7.2), the Faction with the highest victory margin wins. 
The victory margin is the amount a Faction is beyond or short of its 
condition set forth in 7.2.
NOTE: The victory margin will be positive if the Faction has reached 
its goal, negative or zero if it has not. 
•	 US: Total Support + Available US – 50. 
•	 NVA: NVA-Controlled Population + NVA Bases – 18.
•	 ARVN: COIN-Controlled Population + Patronage – 50. 
•	 VC: Total Opposition + VC Bases – 35.
Victory Deception Option: For less knowledge of how close 
Factions in 3- or 4-player games are to winning, each player 
at start blindly draws 2 Deception markers. Set aside the rest; 
they may not be inspected. Players may reveal their Deception 
markers only as they use them:
Empty Threat: No effect (reveal at game end).
Hidden Agenda: Permanently add +1 to the holding player’s 
victory margin (7.3).
Hidden Asset: Convert any 1 LimOp option (2.3.5) into a full 
Op & Special Activity option.
Handicap Option: If players possess a mix of experience lev-
els, use the above option, but allow the inexperienced players 
to secretly select any 2 markers each, least experienced first; 
the experienced players then blindly draw 2 markers each from 
those remaining.
STOP!
You have read all rules needed for 4 players or 
the No Non-Player option with 2 or 3 players 
(1.5, recommended for first-time play).
8.0 NON-PLAYER FACTIONS
This section governs actions by any Factions beyond those represent-
ed by a player, for solitaire or as an alternative to the No Non-Player 
option for 2 or 3 players (1.5). See also the Playbook’s Non-Player 
Examples of Play.
NOTE: Non-player Factions may not act only in their own direct 
interest. Like players, they sometimes help, sometimes harm, one 
another. 
Important: If playing solitaire, be sure to read the special 1-player 
victory conditions (8.9) before you start!
8.1 Non-Player Sequence of Play 
The Sequence of Play aid sheet summarizes the following rules in 
gray text. 
•	 Operations Not Limited. Non-Players must follow all rules as if 
players, except for the following: Whenever a Non-player Faction 
by the Sequence of Play(2.3.4) is to execute a Limited Operation 
(2.3.5), it instead executes a full Operation and Special Activity. 
(Non-players execute free LimOps by Event normally, [5.5] as 
LimOps.) 
•	 Event or Ops? Except as specified below and in any special Event 
Instructions (8.4.1), a Non-player Faction when given the option 
(2.3.4) chooses the Event. 
•	 Pivotal Events. Non-players execute their playable Pivotal Events 
only when certain additional conditions are met (8.4.6).
•	 Capabilities. Non-players opt for Capabilities Events only on a 
die roll less than the number of Coup cards left in the deck. 
•	 Ineffective Events. Regardless of the above, Non-player Factions 
opt only for Events that would have an effect (something happens, 
including Capabilities, 5.3) and for Momentum Events (5.4) when 
the next card is “Coup!” only if they would have an immediate or 
Coup Round effect (EXAMPLES: “Bombing Pause”, “Blowtorch 
Komer”, “Medevac”, “Oriskany”, “Rolling Thunder” all have 
such effects; “ADSID”, “Claymores”, “Wild Weasels” do not).
•	 Low Resources. If Non-player NVA or ARVN are to execute 
Operations but have 0 or fewer than 3 Resources, respectively, 
they Pass instead (earning Resources, 2.3.3). NOTE: Non-player 
VC at 0 Resources will try to Tax (8.5). Non-player US tries to 
Operate even without ARVN Resources. 
INEFFECTIVE EVENT EXAMPLE: Non-player US is 1st Eligible 
for “Operation Attleboro”. At the moment, no Tunnel is on the map. 
The Event would have no effect, so the US executes Operations and 
a Special Activity instead.
8.1.1 Events, Operations, and Special Activities. To execute an 
Event with a Non-player, follow the section below about Non-player 
Events and any individual Event instructions on the reverse of the 
Random Spaces foldout (8.4.1). To execute a Non-player Faction’s 
Operations and Special Activities, see the Non-Player flow charts 
and the rules section below governing that Faction’s actions. 
GUIDELINES: Unless otherwise specified, carry out whatever 
actions apply to the maximum extent (such as in the most spaces 
or with the most pieces allowed and only as long as needed pieces 
and Resources are available). Normal Resource costs, requirements, 
and procedures apply. 
EXAMPLE: Non-Player VC Terror Activates an Underground Guer-
rilla and costs 1 Resource per City or Province, per 3.3.4. 

PLAY NOTE: To more easily implement Ops that move pieces 
(March, Patrol, Sweep, Transport, Raid, Air Lift, 8.5-8.8), first 
identify which pieces can move, then their destinations.
8.1.2 Pieces and Resources. The Random Spaces sheet summarizes 
the following. Unless otherwise specified, once spaces involved are 
selected, Non-player Factions: 
•	 As possible, place friendly and target or remove enemy Bases, 
then Guerrillas or Special Forces, then alternating Troops and 
Police evenly, beginning with whichever is fewest in the space 
(Troops if even). Within that, target enemy Underground before 
Active Guerrillas or SF, then enemy US before ARVN and enemy 
VC before NVA. 
•	 Remove friendly pieces in the reverse order from the above, to the 
degree possible, alternating Troops and Police evenly, beginning 
with whichever is most in the space (Troops if even), Active before 
Underground Guerrillas or SF. 
•	 Never place 2 COIN (US or ARVN) Bases in the same space, nor 
ARVN Bases into Cities.
•	 Move friendly (US and ARVN) from out-of-play first, then from 
Casualities, then from Available. Move out-of-play or Casualty 
pieces to Available or the map in this order: Bases, then Rangers, 
Troops, Irregulars.
•	 Remove pieces to be replaced even if no pieces are available to 
replace them (1.4.1, EXCEPTION: Infiltrate, 4.4.1). 
•	 March so as to get as many Underground Guerrillas as possible 
to the destination (3.3.2). Within that requirement, March Active 
Guerrillas first. 
•	 Never voluntarily transfer Resources (1.5.2). 
8.1.3 Selecting Spaces. When executing Operations and Special 
Activities by the priorities on the Non-Player flowcharts (and per 8.4 
to 8.8), select spaces for each listed priority in order until there are 
no more legal candidate spaces or actions for that priority, or until 
any space limit within that priority is reached. Then move on to the 
next priority and do the same, until any overall space limit for the 
Operation or Special Activity is reached, or until the Faction runs 
out of Resources (if applicable). Sometimes, priorities will provide 
a precedence of what spaces or situations should be selected first; if 
not, select equal candidates randomly as described below (8.2-8.3).
8.2 Random Spaces 
If several candidate Province or Cities have equal priority for a 
Non-player Operation, Special Activity, or Event, select one using 
the Random Spaces table: 
•	 Roll the three dice: red indicates column on the table, yellow 
indicates row of box trios, and blue indicates the box within the trio 
naming a space. NOTE: The boxes show terrain and Population 
of each space. If the box names 2 spaces, choose the top space 
first. EXAMPLE: Choose An Loc before Phuoc Long. 
•	 If the resulting space is not a candidate, move down the column 
until one is reached. Follow the arrows, moving from the bottom of 
one column to the top of the next and from Quang Nam to Quang 
Tin (or just follow the arrows on the Random Spaces Map). 
•	 Carry out as much of the action as possible in the candidate space 
reached, then roll again to select another space only if needed. 
PLAY NOTE: If players agree, choose among a few spaces by equal-
chance die roll instead. 
8.3 Random LoCs 
If both LoCs and other spaces are equal candidates, choose LoCs 
last. If several LoCs are candidates, choose: 
•	 First that with the highest Econ. 
•	 Then that adjacent to a Random City (8.2). 
•	 Then with an equal chance die roll. 
Sabotage only unSabotaged LoCs.
8.4 Non-Player Events 
NOTE: Events will not always benefit the executing Non-player 
Faction directly.
8.4.1 Event Instructions. Whenever any Non-player Faction is 
to execute an Event and that Faction’s symbol on the card has a 
light-colored halo, first check any special instructions for that Event 
on the reverse of the Random Spaces foldout. When a Faction plays 
an Event that gives free Operations or Special Activities (5.5) to 
another, Non-player Faction, the 2nd Faction’s Event instructions 
(if any) apply to how it executes those free actions.
8.4.2 Dual-Use Events. Non-player NVA and VC executing a Du-
al-Use Event (5.2) use the shaded text, while Non-player US and 
ARVN use unshaded text, unless Event Instructions say otherwise 
(8.4.1).
8.4.3 Event Placement. Place, remove, or relocate as many pieces 
(per 8.1.2) as Events, availability (1.4.1), and stacking (1.4.2) allow. 
When allowed and unless otherwise specified, Non-player US and 
ARVN place or move friendly pieces from out of play first, then 
from Casualties, then from Available.
8.4.4 Events—Who, What, and Where. Unless otherwise specified: 
•	 When there is a choice of who gets Event benefits (such as 
Resources, free Operations, or placing pieces or Tunnel markers), 
select the executing Faction, then the other friendly Faction, then 
a random enemy, Non-player first. US and ARVN always increase 
rather than decrease Aid and ARVN Resources, NVA and VC the 
reverse. ARVN increases rather than decreases Patronage, all other 
Factions the reverse.
•	 For any choices as part of free Operations (including Limited 
Operations) or Special Activities, use that Faction’s priorities 
(8.5-8.8). For multiple free Operations (such as “Sweep then 
Assault”), use the priorities for the first. Where not applicable, 
choose pieces per 8.1.2 and spaces randomly (8.2-8.3). NOTE: If 
there is a choice among Operations, use the Faction’s flowchart 
to select one. If there is a choice among Special Activities without 
an Operation, follow the flowcharts to see which Operation and 
Special Activity is selected but ignore the Operation.
•	 Select spaces for shifts in Support or Opposition per 8.4.5 below. 
•	 Within the above (if applicable), select Event spaces to ensure that 
as many Bases then other pieces as possible are placed, removed, 
or replaced. When removing enemy pieces, use the priorities in 
8.1.2 above. If friendly pieces are to be removed and there is a 
choice, remove the other Faction’s pieces.
•	 Otherwise, select spaces randomly (8.2.3). 
PLACEMENT EXAMPLE: Non-player VC executing “Cu Chi” 
place as many Tunnel markers as possible, VC Tunnels first. So they 
select first a Province with 2 un-Tunneled VC Bases, if any such 
space, then a space with 1 VC and 1 NVA un-Tunneled Base each, 
then a space with just 1 un-Tunneled VC Base.
OP EXAMPLE: Non-player US is executing “SEALORDS”. Decide 

by each Faction’s priorities whether it will either Sweep or Assault. 
The US Assaults if doing so could remove NVA Control, a Base, or a 
Tunnel, or could remove at least 6 enemies (8.8.2), otherwise Sweeps.
8.4.5 Events that Shift Support/Opposition. Unless otherwise 
specified, Non-player Factions select spaces for Event effects that 
shift Support or Opposition as follows: 
•	 VC for the highest gain in Total Opposition, then the highest loss 
in Total Support. 
•	 NVA for the highest loss in Total Support, then the least gain in 
Total Opposition. 
•	 ARVN for the highest loss in Total Opposition, then the least gain 
in Total Support. 
•	 US for the highest gain in Total Support, then the highest loss in 
Total Opposition. 
8.4.6 Pivotal Events. A Non-player Faction holding a Pivotal Event 
plays it the instant that it is playable (that Faction is Eligible, the 
Event’s preconditions are met, and no Coup is next, 2.3.8 & 5.1.4) 
and that any player Faction is 1st Eligible (including because the 
player just played a Pivotal Event that the Non-Player’s Event can 
trump). If 2 or 3 Non-Players play Pivotal Events at once, they trump 
one another normally.
EXAMPLE: A US player is 1st Eligible on the played Event. No 
Coup is showing. Non-player VC are also Eligible, have not yet 
played “Tet Offensive”, and have more than 20 Guerrillas in South 
Vietnam. The VC immediately execute “Tet Offensive”.
NOTE: When a Non-player plays a Pivotal Event, further instruc-
tions (8.4.1) guide its execution.
8.4.7 Other Event Choices. When a Non-player Faction while ex-
ecuting an Event has a choice that is not otherwise covered above, 
choose randomly among the possibilities. EXAMPLE: Non-player 
execution of “RAND” chooses a candidate US Capability to flip 
with an equal chance die roll.
8.5 Non-Player VC Actions
NOTE: It is not necessary to read through the lengthy stip-
ulations below before playing because they are summarized 
on the Non-player flowcharts. Refer to these rules as needed to 
clarify the flowcharts’ shorthand.
8.5.1 Terror. If the VC are to Operate and have enough Underground 
Guerrillas and the Resource (without Taxing) to use Terror (3.3.4) in 
any space with Active or Passive Support—if the space has VC Base, 
without Activating the last Underground VC Guerrilla there—the 
VC use Terror as follows:
•	 If the VC hit 0 Resources while executing Terror and it is possible 
for them to Tax per below, they do so before continuing Terror.
•	 Everywhere that a shift is possible (not at 0 Population nor Active 
Opposition) without Activating the last Underground VC Guerrilla 
with any VC Base, first in the spaces with the highest Population, 
then randomly.
•	 Then, if and only if the VC have more than 12 Resources and Aid 
is less than 30, on all unsabotaged LoCs (with Underground VC).
TAX: If the VC already Taxed once, their Op and Special Activity 
is complete. If not, they do so now, unless they already have a lot of 
Resources and—unless they are at 0 Resources—only where it does 
not hurt Opposition or add Support. Tax up to 4 spaces (that have 
Underground VC Guerrillas and no COIN Control, 4.5.1) if and only 
if the VC have no more than 9 Resources, as follows: 
•	 First Tax the 2-Econ and then any 1-Econ LoCs possible.
•	 Then Tax spaces at Active Support where possible (Underground 
VC and no COIN Control), highest Population spaces first. 
•	 Finally, if and only if the VC at this moment remain with 0 Re-
sources, Tax up to 4 Active Opposition then other random spaces, 
highest Population first in each case (not at 0 Pop).
If the VC already have more than 9 Resourses or no such VC Tax-
ation is possible, the VC instead Subvert as follows.
SUBVERT: If the VC Terrorized, Rallied, or Marched but did not 
Tax or Ambush, they Subvert in 1 or 2 spaces (with Underground 
VC Guerrillas and ARVN cubes, 4.5.2) as follows: 
•	 First, where possible to remove COIN Control, from the most 
Population possible.
•	 Then, within the above priority, to remove the most cubes, Troops 
and Police evenly (starting with the fewest in the space, 8.1.2).
•	 In each space, replace ARVN with VC only where only 1 ARVN 
cube is in the space.
If no such Subversion is possible, the VC instead execute no Special 
Activity with their Operation (Op Only, 2.3.4).
8.5.2 Rally. If the conditions for VC Terror are not met, and if the 
VC either have at least 12 Guerrillas in their Available Forces box 
or would place 2 or more Bases if Rallying per below, Rally in up 
to 6 spaces (without Support, 3.3.1), as follows:
•	 If the VC hit 0 Resources while Rallying and it is possible for them 
to Tax per 8.5.1 above, they do so before continuing to Rally.
•	 Then place a VC Base (replacing 2 Guerrillas, 3.3.1) wherever 
there are at least 4 VC Guerrillas (and room for the Base, 1.4.2).
•	 Then place Guerrillas (single if no VC Base) in up to 2 spaces that 
have ARVN Troops or Police but no VC Guerrillas yet (selecting 
randomly among such spaces if more than 2).
•	 Next, place VC Guerrillas wherever there already is a VC Base 
and fewer than 4 Underground (not Active) VC Guerrillas.
•	 Then place VC Guerrillas wherever doing so would remove COIN 
Control from spaces with at least 1 Population. 
•	 Then—if and only if the NVA are a player (not if there is a Non-
player NVA)—place single VC Guerrillas to remove NVA Control 
of any Population (not 0 Population spaces).
•	 Then place single VC Guerrillas in other spaces that have 1, 2, or 
3 VC Guerrillas, and finally in other random spaces inside South 
Vietnam (until a total of 6 Rally spaces is reached or the VC have 
no more Resources).
If the shaded “Cadres” Capability is in effect (5.3), Agitate now as 
possible per “Cadres” and per the priorities in 8.5.5 below.
IF NONE: If no Rally is possible, such as because no Taxation 
occurred and the VC have 0 Resources, instead March per 8.5.3 
below or, if that is not possible either, Pass.
TAX: If the VC Taxed per above, their Op and Special Activity are 
complete. If they did not Tax, but can do so now, they Tax per 8.5.1.
SUBVERT: If the VC Rallied but did not and do not now Tax, they 
Subvert per 8.5.1 above.
8.5.3 March. If the VC neither Terrorized nor Rallied, and no LoC 
now has an Underground VC Guerrilla on it, and it is not Monsoon 

(2.3.9), March as follows (and per 8.1.2):
•	 For the moves below, March as many adjacent Guerrillas as 
possible while always leaving 2 VC Guerrillas per space with a 
VC Base and 1 VC Guerrilla per other space (including LoCs)—
leaving behind Underground Guerrillas first if other priorities can 
be met (then per 8.1.2).
•	 Also, do not move out of any South Vietnam space so as to add 
either COIN Control or NVA Control to it (1.7).
•	 First, March to get 1 Underground VC Guerrilla onto each 1-Econ 
or 2-Econ LoC space possible (paying 0 Resources, 3.3.2).
•	 Then, March into spaces that have at least 1 Population, first 
into those not yet at Active Opposition, then wherever it is 
possible to move in the most Underground VC Guerrillas that 
stay Underground—(and only with that number of Underground 
Guerrillas, 8.1.2)—next, within that priority or if staying 
Underground is not possible for additional spaces—to remove 
the most COIN Control possible.
•	 Finally—if and only if the NVA are a player—March into spaces 
with at least 1 Population and NVA Control where it is possible 
for the arrival of Marching VC to remove that Control.
IF NONE: If no such March is possible (such as during Monsoon, 
2.3.9), the VC instead Rally (8.5.2) or, if that is not possible either,-
Pass (2.3.3). EXAMPLE: The VC are to March but have 0 Resources 
and cannot get any Underground Guerrillas onto LoCs; they try to 
Rally, beginning with Tax to get Resources. 
AMBUSH: After Marching, if and only if the VC at that moment 
have at least 1 Resource, Ambush (in up to 2 spaces with Under-
ground VC Guerrillas that just Marched, 4.5.3; 1 space if unshaded 
“Booby Traps” is in effect, 5.3).
•	 Select Ambush spaces and remove enemy pieces per the Attack 
and Ambush priorities listed in the bullets in 8.5.4 below. 
TAX OR SUBVERT: If no such Ambush is possible—or if the VC 
have 0 Resources—Tax or, if that not possible, Subvert, all per 8.5.1.
8.5.4 Attack. If the VC neither Terrorized nor Rallied and already 
have an Underground Guerrilla on a LoC, Attack (3.3.3). The VC 
will Attack to Ambush and wherever they have large groups of 
Guerrillas, until they run out of targets or Resources. Select spaces 
for Attacks and Ambushes, and remove enemy pieces within those 
spaces, as follows:
•	 First, select spaces where a successful Attack could remove a 
US or ARVN Base, then where it could remove Special Forces 
(Irregulars or Rangers), then Troops and Police evenly (per 8.1.2, 
and including adjacent space for Ambush from LoC, 4.5.3). 
NOTE: Bases would only be removed once no other COIN pieces 
are left (3.3.3.).
•	 Within the above priorities, select spaces to remove US pieces 
(rather than ARVN) first, and then where Attack or Ambush could 
remove COIN Control.
•	 Among spaces with the same priority, first Ambush where possible 
to meet that priority. Ambush first from LoCs (including into 
adjacent spaces, 4.4.3/4.5.3) where possible.
•	 Then Attack only those remaining selected spaces with groups of 
4 or more VC Guerrillas within the space.
•	 Remove pieces within a selected space using the above (8.1.2) 
priorities: Bases whenever possible, Special Forces, then Troops 
and Police evenly (whichever least), and US before ARVN within 
each of these categories.
IF NONE: If no such Attack is possible, instead March (8.5.3). 
AMBUSH: Ambush per above (up to 2 spaces with Underground VC 
Guerrillas, 4.5.3; 1 space if unshaded “Booby Traps” is in effect, 5.3).
•	 If more than the allowed number of potential Ambush spaces have 
equal priority, Ambush first where the fewest VC Guerrillas.
•	 If no such Ambush is possible, the VC execute no Special Activity 
with their Attack. 
8.5.5 Agitate. The Non-player VC Agitate (6.3.2) to the maximum 
extent that they can, first for the greatest total shift, then where 
any Support, then where there is no Terror marker, then randomly. 
Remove Terror only if a shift would be achieved (because the VC 
will have Resources after removing the Terror and the space is not 
yet at Active Opposition).
8.6 Non-Player NVA Actions
8.6.1 Pass. If the NVA are to Operate but have 0 Resources, 
they Pass instead (2.3.3 & 8.1, gaining 1 Resource).
8.6.2 Attack. When the NVA with any Resources are to Operate, 
they Attack if NVA Troops Attacking alone (without any Ambush 
or Bombard) would either add any NVA Control, or remove any 
US or ARVN Base, or remove the last or at least 4 enemy pieces 
from a space. 
The NVA Attack wherever their Troops are able to remove enemy 
pieces, possibly where NVA can Ambush, and also where they 
have large groups of Guerrillas, until the NVA runs out of targets or 
Resources. An NVA Attack selects spaces, removes enemy pieces 
within those spaces, and chooses whether to use NVA Troops or 
NVA Guerrillas as follows:
•	 First, target any enemy pieces in Laos or Cambodia, then those 
within South Vietnam.
•	 Within that priority, Attack first in (or from, if Ambushing from 
LoCs, 4.4.3) those spaces in (or from) which the most enemy 
pieces total could be removed.
•	 Within that priority, Attack first where a Base could be removed, 
then where Special Forces (Irregulars or Rangers) could be 
removed, finally Troops and Police evenly (starting with the 
fewest in the space, 8.1.2). For each Attack space, remove pieces 
in that order, to the degree allowed. NOTE: These are the same 
priorities for removal of enemy pieces as Non-player VC Attack 
uses (8.5.4).
•	 Within those priorities, Attack and remove US pieces before 
ARVN whenever possible.
WHICH NVA ATTACK: Once spaces are selected, Attack only as 
follows, in the following order among spaces of the same priority 
above: 
•	 If there are at least 4 NVA Troops in the selected space, the Troops 
Attack.
•	 Where there are fewer than 4 NVA Troops and NVA Ambush is 
possible, Ambush—first with Guerrillas on LoCs—until no further 
Ambush spaces are allowed. (Check now to see if Ambushing per 
below is possible; if not, Bombard per below before any Attacks 
if enemies would remain for Attacks to remove).
•	 Where there are fewer than 4 NVA Troops and NVA Ambush is 
not possible, Attack with Guerrillas only if there are at least 4 
NVA Guerrillas.
•	 Among remaining selected spaces, Attack with Troops only where 

there are enough NVA Troops to remove enemy pieces (accounting 
for any effect of the “PT-76” Capability, 5.3). Attack in no further 
spaces.
•	 Use shaded “PT-76”, if in effect, in the space where it will remove 
most extra enemy pieces.
AMBUSH: If Ambushing per above would remove a total of 2 pieces 
that are any mix of either ARVN Bases, Rangers, or US pieces, do 
so (in 2 Attack spaces with Underground NVA Guerrillas, 4.4.3). 
Do not Ambush if either piece removed would be an ARVN Troop 
or Police, or if only 1 Ambush space is possible, such as because 
the unshaded “Booby Traps” Capability (5.3) is in effect. EXCEP-
TION: If the “Typhoon Kate” Momentum Event (5.4) is in effect, 
do Ambush (in 1 space).
•	 Ambush after Attacking with groups of at least 4 Troops, and 
before doing so with groups of at least 4 Guerrillas.
•	 If no such Ambush is possible, instead Bombard before Attacking, 
as follows. 
BOMBARD: Bombard 2 spaces (in or adjacent to 1 or more spaces 
with at least 3 NVA Troops, 4.4.2)—or, if “Long Range Guns” in 
effect, Bombard 1 or 3 spaces as allowed.
•	 Select Attack or March destination spaces first, then other spaces 
with NVA pieces in them, then where US Troops, then randomly. 
•	 Within each space, remove US Troops before ARVN.
If no such Bombardment is possible, the NVA instead execute no 
Special Activity with their Operation (Op Only, 2.3.4).
8.6.3 Terror. If the NVA with any Resources do not meet the above 
conditions for Attacking, and if they could execute Terror in spaces 
totaling at least 3 Population at Active Support, they do so in each 
space that they can that have any level of Support (Passive or Active 
Support, where NVA have Troops or Underground Guerrillas, 3.3.4). 
Select spaces randomly if NVA Resources are too few to Terrorize all.
BOMBARD: Then Bombard per 8.6.2.
8.6.4 Rally. If the NVA with any Resources do not meet the above 
conditions for either Attack or Terror, and if the NVA have more 
than 20 Troop cubes or 10 Guerrillas in their Available Forces box, 
or if the Trail is at 0 or 1, the NVA Rally in up to 3 spaces (without 
Support, 3.3.1) and improve the Trail. EXCEPTION: If the unshaded 
“AAA” Capability is in effect and the Trail would be improved per 
below, instead Rally in only 1 space and improve the Trail. 
Select spaces and Rally as follows:
•	 Place an NVA Base (replacing 2 NVA Guerrillas, 3.3.1) wherever 
there are at least 4 NVA or VC Guerrillas or Troops (including 2 
NVA Guerrillas and room for the Base, 1.4.2).
•	 Then place NVA Guerrillas at any COIN Control in Laos or 
Cambodia.
•	 Next place Guerrillas at NVA Bases where there are no or only 
1 NVA Guerrilla, then at any other NVA Bases (with 2 or more 
NVA Guerrillas already).
•	 Finally, place Guerrillas in other random spaces, until the specified 
number of Rally spaces is reached (or Resources run out).
After placing any pieces, pay to Improve the Trail, if possible, unless 
the NVA already have fewer than 3 Resources, or unless the Trail 
is already at 3 and NVA have fewer than 9 Resources. EXAMPLE: 
NVA with 3+ Resources, Trail at 2, and shaded “SA-2s” improve 
the Trail to 4.
IF NONE: If no such Rally is possible, instead March per 8.6.5 
below or, if that is not possible either, Pass.
INFILTRATE: After Rallying (or Marching), Infiltrate in up to 2 
spaces (or in 1 space if the “559th Transport Grp” unshaded Mo-
mentum Event is in effect) if and only if a Base or at least 4 Troops 
would be placed, as follows:
•	 First, until the NVA have no Base in their Available Forces box, 
replace any VC Bases possible with NVA Bases (where there are 
more NVA than VC pieces, shifting Opposition, 4.4.1)—first in 
spaces with the highest Population, then any Tunnelled Bases, 
then in random spaces.
•	 Then place Troops (at NVA Bases), first in those Base spaces with 
the most NVA Guerrillas, then in spaces with 2 NVA Bases, then 
in random Base spaces. Within each of those priorities, choose 
spaces within South Vietnam first.
•	 If placing Troops, then also replace NVA Guerrillas in those spaces 
with Troops, but only where there are more than 2 NVA Guerrillas 
in a space and until 2 are left.
BOMBARD: If neither NVA Base nor at least 4 Troops would be 
placed, or no such Infiltration is possible (EXAMPLE: “McNamara 
Line”), instead Bombard per 8.6.2. 
8.6.5 March. If no conditions for any other Operation applied and 
it is not Monsoon (2.3.9), the NVA will March—first to set up for 
placing a Base in Laos/Cambodia, then to get a few Guerrillas on 
LoCs, then with larger groups to expand NVA Control. NVA March 
as follows (and per 8.1.2):
•	 March Troops and Guerrillas out of spaces, leaving behind only 
just enough Guerrillas then Troops to keep any NVA Control 
there and to to keep 2 NVA Guerrillas or Troops in any space 
with NVA Bases. Leave NVA Guerrillas if possible, otherwise 
Troops. Ignore this restriction if and only if another Marching 
group is certain to enter the earlier group’s origin space and 
fulfill this requirement.
•	 Use the Trail to move pieces more than one space only if the Trail 
is at 4 (3.3.2, 6.7) or if the March is free (5.5). (Leave 1 or more 
pieces in transit spaces as needed to maintain NVA Control per 
that priority below.)
•	 First, if any NVA Base is in the Available Forces box, March 
into a space in Laos or Cambodia that does not yet have 4 NVA 
Guerrillas nor any NVA Base (chosen randomly), until the space 
has as close as possible to 4 NVA Guerrillas.
•	 Then March 1 Underground NVA Guerrilla onto 1 LoC that does 
not have an Undeground NVA or VC Guerrilla, the Highway from 
Hue to Da Nang if possible, otherwise 1 random LoC.
•	 Then identify the groups of NVA Troops and Guerrillas that have 
not yet Marched and are beyond those that must stay behind per 
the final bullet below. 
•	 Each Marching group must stay together. If possible within the 
priorities below, they must end in a different space than all other 
groups.
•	 March groups first to add NVA Control to the 3 highest Population 
spaces possible, first spaces without US Bases among spaces of 
the same Population, then spaces with COIN Control before those 
without any Control (possibly including spaces just departed by 
another Marching NVA group).
•	 Then March groups to spaces that have NVA Bases but at the 
moment have no NVA Guerrillas nor NVA Troops protecting them.

IF NONE: If no such March is possible (EXAMPLE: Monsoon, 
2.3.9), instead Rally (8.6.4) or, if that is not possible either, Pass.
AMBUSH: After Marching, if Ambushing would remove a US or 
ARVN Base do so (in 2 spaces with Underground NVA Guerrillas 
that Marched, 4.4.3), per the Attack priorities above (8.6.2). 
INFILTRATE OR BOMBARD: If Ambush after March cannot 
remove a Base, instead Infiltrate per 8.6.4 above or, if that is not 
possible, Bombard per 8.6.2. 
8.6.6 Redeploy. In the Redeploy Phase (6.4.3), relocate NVA Troops 
as follows:
•	 Never move Troops out of a space so as to lose NVA Control or 
add COIN Control.
•	 First, relocate to add as much total NVA Control on the map as 
possible, moving in only the Troops needed to add Control.
•	 Then relocate to at least remove COIN Control where it is not 
possible to also add NVA Control.
•	 Finally, relocate into 1 space, first in South Vietnam, to get the 
most additional NVA Troops adjacent to COIN Control that were 
not already so adjacent. 
8.7 Non-Player ARVN Actions
8.7.1 Pass. If ARVN are to Operate with less than 3 Resources, they 
Pass instead (2.3.3 & 8.1, gaining 3 Resources).
8.7.2 Train. When ARVN with 3 or more Resources are to Operate, 
they Train if at least 12 pieces (Troops, Police, Rangers, and Bases 
total) are in the ARVN Available Forces box, in up to 3 spaces (where 
no NVA Control, 3.2.1) as follows:
•	 First, place exactly 6 cubes—or up to 2 Rangers once fewer than 
6 ARVN cubes are Available—each into Provinces with either US 
or ARVN Bases or into Cities. Select spaces first to add COIN 
Control, then to add either Police or ARVN Troops where there 
are none yet, finally randomly.
•	 Then pause Training to Govern or, if not possible, Transport per 
below, before resuming Training. 
•	 After Governing or Transporting (if any was possible), in 1 
Province in South Vietnam with at least 5 total US and ARVN 
pieces including at least 3 ARVN cubes, and no US nor ARVN 
Base already, replace the 3 ARVN cubes with an ARVN Base.
•	 If no ARVN Base was placed (and Training has not yet occurred in 
3 spaces), Train wherever else beyond the above spaces is needed 
to be able to Pacify (if any)—placing no pieces—first where any 
NVA or VC Base, if possible. 
•	 Finally, if no Base was placed, Pacify in 1 Training space per 
8.7.6 below.
IF NONE: If no such Training is possible but ARVN Governed or 
Transported, ARVN Train for 0 Resources (placing no pieces). If 
neither such Training nor Govern nor Transport was possible, ARVN 
Pass (for Resources, 2.3.3). 
GOVERN: If ARVN are Training or just Patrolled, they Govern also 
(in up to 2 spaces other than Saigon with COIN-Control and Support 
and where no Training is occurring, 1 space if shaded “Mandate of 
Heaven” is in effect). Govern as follows:
• If the US is a player and has a victory margin above 0 
(Support+Available exceeds 50, 7.3), Govern in the highest 
Population spaces where possible to transfer Aid to Patronage. 
Shift their Support toward Neutral (even if unshaded “Mandate” 
is in effect).
• If the US is a Non-player or is not at victory per above, instead take 
the most Patronage possible (from 1 or 2 spaces) without shifting 
any space to Neutral (so at Active Support or with unshaded 
“Mandate” and no shift).
• Then, if Govern occurred in exactly 1 space (and shaded “Man-
date” is not in effect), or if Aid is at 0, add Aid from the highest 
Population space(s) possible.
TRANSPORT: If no such Govern is possible, ARVN instead Trans-
port up to 6 pieces, selecting Rangers then ARVN Troops:
•	 Transport first from a Laos or Cambodia space with such pieces, 
then from the South Vietnam space with the most ARVN Troops 
above those needed to keep COIN Control. 
•	 Do not move so many pieces as to remove COIN Control of the 
origin space (if any).
•	 If the Transport accompanies either Train or Patrol, move into 1 
Province, first one that has Police but no US or ARVN Troops. 
Among such Provinces, or if there is no such reachable space, 
move so as to change Control of highest Population space possible
•	 If the Transport precedes Assault or Sweep, move into up to 3 
spaces to most help those respective priorities (8.7.4-.5).
•	 If the unshaded “Armored Cavalry” Capability is in effect, then 
free Assault 1 space per ARVN Assault priorities, as applicable 
(8.7.4).
•	 Finally, flip all Rangers Underground.
•	 If no such Transport is possible, the ARVN execute no Special 
Activity with the Operation.
8.7.3 Patrol. If ARVN did not Train, they Patrol if NVA or VC 
Guerrillas on any LoCs would block a Patrol from Saigon to any 
City. (Ignore Guerrillas on LoCs beyond Cities that are also blocked 
by NVA or VC. Similarly, NVA or VC in Cities alone do not trigger 
a Patrol—the blockage must be due at least in part to a Guerrilla 
on a LoC.) ARVN Patrol first to defend contested LoCs, then to 
control Cities, including filling in behind into Cities vacated during 
the Patrol itself, as follows:
•	 Move Police when possible then ARVN Troops, as needed to 
reach LoC or City destinations (3.2.2) below, first from spaces 
with the most ARVN cubes. Do not leave any Province so as to 
lose any COIN Control, drop below 3 total US and ARVN cubes 
and Special Forces, nor remove the last US or ARVN Troop or 
the last Police there.
•	 First, move cubes onto any LoCs with NVA/VC Guerrillas until 
ARVN cubes each LoC space equal 3, beginning with those LoCs 
nearest to Saigon (otherwise randomly). (Cubes may leave Cities 
as needed, removing COIN Control, the last 3 COIN cubes or 
Special Forces, or the last Troop or Police.)
•	 Then move cubes to Cities as needed to have all Cities possible 
under COIN Control, 3 total US or ARVN cubes or Special Forces, 
and at least 1 US or ARVN Troop and 1 Police, first to the highest 
Population Cities. (These destinations may include Cities just 
departed by other Patrolling cubes).
•	 Then free Assault to remove the most pieces possible, otherwise 
on a random LoC. 
IF NONE: If no such Patrol is possible, the ARVN instead try to 
Train per 8.7.2 above. 
GOVERN OR TRANSPORT: After Patrolling, Govern or, if not 
possible, TRANSPORT, in either case per 8.7.2. 

8.7.4 Assault. If ARVN did not Train or Patrol, and if an ARVN 
Assault alone (without Raid or Transport) would now add any COIN 
Control, remove any NVA Control, or remove any Base or any NVA 
Troops piece, the ARVN Assault. NOTE: If it is Monsoon (2.3.9), 
ARVN will try to Assault even without meeting the above condition, 
because the remaining option—Sweep—is ruled out (8.7.5).
Before Assaulting, Raid per below or, if not possible, Transport per 
8.7.2 above. Then Assault up to 3 spaces as follows:
•	 First, wherever possible to remove a Base or roll to remove a 
Tunnel marker.
•	 Then so as to reduce the most NVA-Controlled and add the most 
COIN-Controlled Population—adding together NVA Control and 
COIN Control affected if both would change in the same space. 
EXAMPLE: Choose a 1-Pop space where both NVA Control 
would be removed and COIN Control added, before choosing an 
uncontrolled 1-Pop space where COIN Control would be added.
•	 Then to remove any spaces’ last enemy pieces.
•	 Finally, to remove 2 or more enemy pieces per space, first where 
possible to remove the most enemy pieces.
IF NONE: If no such Assault is possible, the ARVN instead Patrol 
per 8.7.3 above, or, if that not possible, Train per 8.7.2. 
RAID: Before Assaulting or Sweeping, ARVN Raid (up to 2 spaces 
with or adjacent to Rangers)—but only if at least 1 enemy piece will 
be removed—as follows:
•	 Move Rangers only if they can do so without removing any COIN 
Control from origin spaces. 
•	 If moving into a space, move in no more than 1 Ranger, except if 
and as more are required to add COIN Control by the end of the 
Raid.
•	 Select target spaces first to remove any (unTunneled) Bases, 
then to remove the most NVA Control plus add the most COIN 
Control possible, then to remove the most Underground Guerrillas 
possible, finally randomly.
•	 If Raid cannot remove any NVA or VC, instead Transport per 
8.7.2.
8.7.5 Sweep. If ARVN do not meet conditions for any other Oper-
ation (and it is not Monsoon, 2.3.9), they Sweep.
Before Sweeping, Raid per 8.7.4 or, if not possible, Transport per 
8.7.2. Then Sweep up to 3 spaces as follows:
•	 First, Sweep with ARVN cubes and Rangers in place where 
there are Underground VC or NVA Guerrillas—first where either 
Active or Passive Support, then where the Underground Guerrillas 
include any VC, then at the highest Population, then randomly.
•	 Then move all ARVN Troops possible as follows and without 
dropping below 3 US plus ARVN cubes and Special Forces in 
any origin space nor losing COIN Control of any. 
•	 First move Troops into the above selected Sweep spaces so as to 
Activate the most Underground Guerrillas possible, within that 
so as to add the most COIN-Controlled Population possible. 
•	 Finally move Troops into 1 added space (if not yet at 3 Sweep 
spaces total). Do so to add the most COIN-Controlled Population 
possible, or, if none possible, into a space with a VC or NVA Base.
IF NONE: If no such Sweep is possible (such as in Monsoon), ARVN 
instead Assault per 8.7.4 above.
8.7.6 Pacify. Whenever Non-player ARVN Pacify—whether during 
Training (3.2.1, 8.7.1) or the Support Phase (6.3.2)—they do so 
where able. However, they do so to shift Passive Support to Active 
Support only so long as Support + Available (the US victory score, 
7.2) remains at 45 or less. Within that restriction, select ARVN Pacify 
spaces first where no Terror marker, then where any Opposition, 
then for the greatest total shift, then randomly. Remove Terror only 
if a shift would be achieved (because enough ARVN Resources 
will remain after removing the Terror, the space is not yet at Active 
Support, and a 1-level shift would not increase Support + Available 
beyond 40).
8.7.7 Redeploy. In the Redeploy Phase (6.4.3), relocate ARVN 
Troops and Police as follows:
•	 First, move Troops only to remove all Troops from LoCs and 
Provinces without US/ARVN Bases, and from spaces with the 
most ARVN Troops beyond those needed to meet the below 
Redeploy priorities there. 
•	 Move the Troops to help add as much total COIN Control and 
(at US/ARVN Bases or Saigon) remove as much NVA Control 
as possible.
•	 Then move Police as further needed to add or keep COIN Control, 
then to have at least 1 Police per (COIN Control) Province, taking 
the Police needed from spaces with the most Police beyond those 
meeting Redeploy priorities (including from Guerrilla-LoCs).
•	 Then move remaining Troops then Police that must or may move to 
ensure at least 3 cubes are in each City (that has no NVA Control). 
•	 Finally, move any Troops that still must move to 1 random can-
didate Redeployment space.
8.8 Non-Player US Actions
8.8.1 US Policy. If the US is a Non-player, it will follow a varying 
strategy—represented by “JFK”, “LBJ”, or “Nixon” US Policy—in 
its execution of certain Operations, Special Activities, Events, and 
Commitment. 
DESIGN NOTE: The labels given US Policy in the game represent 
not individual Presidents but rather different US strategies for 
Vietnam debated during the period and historically associated with 
Kennedy, Johnson, or Nixon.
SET UP: At start of a game with a Non-player US, mark 
the Scenario’s indicated US Policy (either LBJ or JFK, 
2.1) on the US Policy track.
COMMITMENT: Each Commitment Phase (6.5), first check if 
Non-Player US Policy might change. If and only if US victory 
(Support + Available, 7.2) is 45 or less, roll a die and adjust the US 
Policy marker accordingly:
•	 If the roll is equal to the number of Coup cards in the RVN Leader 
box (2.4.1), US Policy shifts to or remains “JFK”. 
•	 If the roll exceeds cards in the RVN Leader box, US Policy is 
“LBJ”. 
•	 If the roll is less than cards in the RVN Leader box, US Policy is 
“Nixon”. 
The resulting US Policy affects Non-Player US placement of pieces 
during that Commitment Phase (see 8.8.7 below) and US actions 
during the coming campaign (as noted below, on the Non-Player US 
sheet, and in the Non-Player US Event instructions).
8.8.2 Assault. If the US is to Operate, it Assaults if such Assault 
alone (including paying Resources for an added ARVN Assault 
space per 3.2.4, any Capabilities in effect, and successful die rolls 

against Tunnels, but without Air Lift or Air Strike) could remove 
either NVA Control, a Base, a Tunnel marker, or a total of at least 
6 enemy pieces. 
Before Assaulting, Air Lift only as helpful to fulfilling the highest 
US Assault priorities below (see AIR LIFT below). Then Assault 
wherever possible. If the shaded “Cobras” Capability is in effect, 
stop after 2 spaces. If shaded “Search and Destroy” is in effect, 
Assault in Provinces at Support only if either a Base (not a Tunnel) 
or NVA Troops will be removed. NOTE: These limits help cap US 
Casualties and preserve Support. Within that, Assault as follows:
•	 First, Assault so as to remove NVA-Control from any Population 
(not 0 Population).
•	 Then, Assault where it would remove enemy Bases or would roll 
to remove Tunnels, then inside South Vietnam where the most 
pieces would be removed per space, then elsewhere. 
•	 Within those priorities, Assault first in the highest Population 
spaces possible (so last in Laos, Cambodia, or Phuoc Long or on 
LoCs). 
•	 In the first space in which paying for an added ARVN Assault 
would remove additional enemies, do so (if ARVN Resources 
above Econ are sufficient, 1.8.1). 
NOTE: If shaded “Abrams” is in effect, the US is able to Assault 
at most 2 spaces.
IF NONE: If no US Assault is able to remove enemy pieces (even 
after Air Lift per below), US instead Passes (for ARVN Resources, 
2.3.3).
AIR LIFT: Before Assaulting (or Sweeping, if “JFK” or “Nixon”), 
Air Lift into the first 2 spaces as helpful per Assault (above) or Sweep 
(8.8.3) priorities, respectively—or into 1 such space if Monsoon 
Season (2.3.9)—if any such spaces.
•	 Air Lift forces from 2 spaces—1 in Monsoon— first from Laos/
Cambodia, then from South Vietnam spaces where there are the 
most US Troops beyond those needed to keep COIN Control 
or those that would remove or Activate enemies in any current 
accompanying Operation occurring there.
•	 Air Lift as many US Troops then ARVN Troops are helpful 
to fulfilling the highest Assault or Sweep priorities occurring, 
including so as remove additional enemies beyond a change in 
Control, without losing any COIN Control or moving pieces 
needed for an Assault or Sweep priority at the origin. 
•	 Air Lift US or ARVN Troops into Laos or Cambodia spaces only 
if US Policy is “Nixon”.
•	 Then Air Lift any US-led Irregulars then Rangers possible 
from origin to destination spaces, as evenly as possible among 
destinations, without losing COIN Control.
•	 Finally, if 1 of 2 allowed destination spaces has not yet been se-
lected (so not in Monsoon), Air Lift 1 Irregular or—if no candidate 
Irregular—1 Ranger into an otherwise completely empty Laos or 
Cambodia space (if any). 
EXAMPLE: During a US Assault, two spaces have VC Bases 
protected only by Active Guerrillas. US Air Lifts just enough US 
Troops into those 2 spaces to eliminate all enemy Guerrillas and 
Bases there. One of 2 spaces that the US Troops are Lifting from 
happens to have a US Irregular in it, which then also Lifts to an 
Assault spaces, picked randomly from the 2.
NOTE: Air Lift might leave origin spaces with fewer than 3 COIN 
Troops and SF. Air Lifting ARVN Troops may help for Assault pri-
orities via the added ARVN Assault (3.2.4).
AIR STRIKE: If no Air Lift helps further meet US Assault or Sweep 
priorities (or in certain cases, after any Sweep, Patrol, or Train, 
see 8.8.3-.5 below), the US instead Air Strikes after its Operation 
(removing up to 6 Active enemy pieces, 4.2.3; 4 pieces if shaded 
“Laser Guided Bombs” in effect; within 2 spaces during Monsoon). 
If the unshaded “Arc Light” Capability is in effect, use it for Air 
Strike in the highest priority Province or City below that has no US 
or ARVN pieces. Air Strike as follows.
•	 First so as to remove NVA-Control from the most Population 
possible (not a 0 Population), ceasing removal if additional Air 
Strike targets remain once each NVA Control is removed. 
•	 Then on LoCs that have US or ARVN pieces.
•	 Then where Active Opposition (and US or ARVN pieces) to 
remove Bases if possible, then the most pieces possible.
•	 Then in other spaces, lowest Population first; among spaces of the 
same Population, again select to remove Bases if possible, then 
the most pieces possible.
•	 Finally, if possible, Degrade the Trail.
If no such Air Strike is possible, execute no Special Activity if the 
Operation was Assault or Sweep, or instead Advise if the Operation 
was Patrol or Train (see 8.8.4, “ADVISE”, below).
8.8.3 Sweep. If the US does not Assault, it Sweeps if such a Sweep 
in place (including any Capabilities in effect but without moving 
Troops by Sweep or Air Lift) could—in a space with Underground 
NVA or VC Guerrillas and either any level of Support or any Base 
(enemy or friendly)—Activate all enemy Guerrillas there. NOTE: 
US may not Sweep in Monsoon (2.3.9). 
If US Policy is “JFK” or “Nixon” (8.8.1), before Sweeping, Air 
Lift if and only as needed to help fulfill US Sweep priorities (see 
AIR LIFT above). Sweep wherever possible—but stopping after 2 
spaces if the shaded “Booby Traps” Capability is in effect (to limit 
US Casualties)—as follows:
•	 To the degree possible, move any US Troops that are in Laos or 
Cambodia spaces out, into any spaces selected for Sweep below 
(including in Laos or Cambodia).
•	 In all other cases, Sweep into spaces only with enough Troops to 
meet the below priorities, that can be spared and without removing 
Troops from any origin that would Activate any Guerrillas via 
Sweep in place, nor losing COIN Control or adding NVA Control 
(regardless of any imminent Air Strike), nor removing the last 3 
total US or ARVN cubes or Special Forces.
•	 Sweep first into up to 2 spaces where there is no COIN Control 
and there are Underground Guerrillas, where Sweeping in could 
add COIN Control and Activate every Guerrilla in the space. Do so 
first where any level of Support, then into the highest Population 
spaces, then where any Bases (enemy or friendly), then elsewhere. 
•	 Do not move Troops in if COIN Control could not be added, or 
if there are no Underground Guerrillas, or if any Guerrilla would 
remain Underground.
•	 Move Troops into Laos or Cambodia spaces only if US Policy is 
“Nixon” (8.8.1).
•	 Then Sweep in place wherever possible to Activate Underground 
Guerrillas (including after any Air Lift).
NOTE: If shaded “Combined Action Platoons” is in effect, the US 
Sweeps at most 2 spaces.

AIR LIFT: If US Policy is “JFK” or “Nixon” (8.8.1), the US Air 
Lifts if and as needed before Sweeping, similar to Air Lift before 
Assault (see “AIR LIFT” under Assault, 8.8.2 above).
AIR STRIKE: If US Policy is “LBJ”, or if Air Lift is not needed 
to meet conditions for Sweep or does not help fulfill US Sweep 
priorities, the US instead Air Strikes after Sweeping, as per Assault 
“AIR STRIKE” above.
8.8.4 Patrol. If the US did not Assault nor Sweep and if NVA or VC 
Guerrillas on any LoCs would block a Patrol from Saigon to any 
City under NVA Control, the US Patrols as follows:
•	 Move US Troops as needed to reach LoC or City destinations 
(3.2.2) below, first from Laos or Cambodia, if possible, then 
from South Vietnam spaces with the most US Troops, in the latter 
case without losing COIN Control or placing NVA Control nor 
removing the last 3 total US or ARVN cubes or Special Forces.
•	 Move US Troops onto up to 3 LoCs so that US Troops there equal 
NVA/VC pieces, among those LoCs, the highest Econ first.
•	 Then move Troops to any Cities not at COIN Control with enough 
Troops to add Control, first to the highest Population Cities.
•	 Then free Assault to remove the most pieces possible, otherwise 
on a random LoC. 
IF NONE: If somehow no such Patrol is possible, the US instead 
Trains per 8.8.5 below. 
AIR STRIKE: After Patrolling, Air Strike per 8.8.2 or, if not possible, 
Advise per below. 
ADVISE: Advise in up to 2 spaces (that were not selected for Train-
ing, 4.2.1) as follows.
•	 First, use ARVN cubes to Assault or Activate Irregulars or Rangers 
(in that order, if more than one is possible) where able to remove 
enemies so as to add any COIN Control or remove any NVA 
Control (even if 0 Population). Then do so to remove enemy 
Bases, and finally to remove the most pieces possible.
•	 If Advise has not yet occurred in 2 spaces, use ARVN to Sweep 
most Underground enemy Guerrillas possible.
•	 Within those priorities, Advise first in the highest Population 
spaces possible (so last in Laos, Cambodia, Phuoc Long or on 
LoCs). 
•	 If the shaded “Search and Destroy” Capability is in effect, do not 
Advise to Assault with ARVN in any Provinces with Support.
•	 If Aid is 40 or less (only), add +6 Aid.
•	 If no such Advise is possible, the US executes no Special Activity 
with its Operation.
8.8.5 Train. If neither US Assault nor Sweep nor Patrol conditions 
were met, the US Trains as follows:
•	 First, place 1 Irregular each—or 2 Irregulars each if US Policy is 
“JFK”—in spaces with no Irregulars already and no US Base.
•	 If in effect, use the unshaded “Combined Action Platoons” to add 
1 Police to a space with US Troops and the fewest Police.
•	 Then, if US Policy is “JFK” or “LBJ”, at 1 US Base place as 
many ARVN cubes as possible (per 8.1.2), then (if no cubes) 
2 Rangers; if “Nixon”, place in the reverse order—Rangers if 
possible, otherwise cubes. 
•	 Within each of the above priorities, Train first in any spaces where 
possible to remove NVA Control and/or add COIN Control.
•	 Then—if ARVN are a player with Patronage above 22, Train 
in Saigon (if not already done above)—placing no pieces—and 
transfer up to 3 Patronage to Resources, if possible.
•	 Alternatively, if there was not transfer of Patronage, Train wher-
ever beyond the above spaces helps to be able to Pacify to the 
maximum extent— if anywhere and placing no pieces—and then 
Pacify per 8.8.6 below.
NOTE: If unshaded “CORDS” is in effect, the US will try to Pacify 
in a 2nd space as part of each Training Operation.
IF NONE: If such Training is not possible (EXAMPLE: ARVN are a 
Non-player and there are not enough ARVN Resources above Econ 
to place pieces or Pacify), the US instead Assaults per 8.8.2 above 
(usually with Air Lift). 
AIR STRIKE OR ADVISE: After Training, if US Policy is “LBJ”, 
Air Strike per 8.8.2 above. If no such Air Strike is possible, or if 
US Policy is “JFK” or “Nixon”, instead Advise per 8.8.4 above.
8.8.6 Pacify. Whenever the Non-player US Pacifies—whether during 
Training (3.2.1, 8.8.5) or the Support Phase (6.3.2)—it does so to the 
maximum extent. If during Training, it does so first where no Police. 
Within that or if not during Training, it does so first for the greatest 
total shift, then where there is no Terror marker, then randomly. 
Remove Terror only if a shift would be achieved (because enough 
ARVN Resources above Econ, 1.8.1, will remain after removing the 
Terror and the space is not yet at Active Support).
8.8.7 Commitment. After re-determining US Policy (8.8.1), move 
US Bases then Troops between map and Available Forces (6.5) per 
the new or continued US Policy as follows: 
•	 JFK Policy—Add 2 US Bases to the map; then add or withdraw 
Troops to or from the map to get as close as possible to 15 US 
Troops in the Available Forces box. 
•	 LBJ Policy—Add 2 US Bases to the map; then add or withdraw 
Troops to get as close as possible to 5 US Troops in Available. 
•	 Nixon Policy—Withdraw 2 US Bases from the map until none 
are left outside Saigon, leaving 1 US Base in Saigon if there; 
then add or withdraw Troops to get as close as possible to 25 US 
Troops in Available. 
When Committing US pieces to the map, place them in COIN-Con-
trol spaces or Saigon (not LoCs), first where already US pieces. 
Within the above priorities, place or remove Troops so as to spread 
US Troops evenly, and place Bases only where no US or ARVN 
Base already, adding or leaving odd Troops and Bases in the highest 
Population then random candidate spaces. NOTE: Non-player US 
Commitment does not move pieces between spaces.
8.9 1-Player Victory
A lone player plays either US and ARVN together or NVA and VC 
together (1.5) and may not transfer Resources (1.5.1). The player 
uses the lower victory margin (7.3) of the player’s two Factions 
and never wins during a Victory Phase (6.1, 7.2). Alternatively, if 
preferred, the player plays just any 1 Faction against 3 Non-players.
•	 To succeed, the player must avoid a win by any Non-player 
through each Coup Round and have the highest victory margin(s) 
after the final Round.
1-Player Difficulty Option A: For greater challenge, regardless 
of scenario or Period Events Option (2.1), set up either the shaded 
or unshaded Capabilities listed for the Medium Scenario—if 
the player is a Counterinsurgent, only the shaded; if Insurgent, 
only unshaded. 

1-Player Difficulty Option B: For even greater challenge, 
beginning with the 2nd Coup Round, the player also must avoid 
having a lower victory margin (with any player Faction) than 
any Non-player Faction during each Victory Phase. NOTE: 
Ignore this requirement during the 1st Coup Round.
NON-PLAYER VICTORY: If the player fails to avoid such an out-
come, the Non-player with the highest victory margin (ties to VC 
then ARVN then NVA) wins the Vietnam conflict:
•	 If VC—Maoist Revolution! The countryside has surrounded the 
cities, which one by one begin to fly the NLF’s red-blue-gold 
as all hold by the foreigners and their puppets on public order 
crumbles. 
•	 If NVA—Mechanized Reunification! North Vietnamese military 
momentum and logistical wherewithal in the South portend the 
arrival of armored NVA columns in soon-to-be Ho Chi Minh City. 
•	 If ARVN—Mandarin Redux! Propped by foreign aid and 
firepower, the Saigon clique cements its hold on the land and 
people of South Vietnam, prying away the last toeholds of the 
unification movement. 
•	 If US—McNamara Redemption! US and allied forces depart in 
good order as the Southern populace turns its back on the NLF 
and hands Saigon the legitimacy to resist the North for years to 
come. 
PLAYER DRAW OR VICTORY: If the player does survive to the 
final Round, subtract the highest Non-player victory margin from the 
lowest player victory margin to gauge the outcome. A difference of 5 
or less is a stalemate, 6 or more a victory for the player’s Faction(s):
•	 1 to 5—Soldiering On! US commitment has faded, but neither 
popular revolt nor ARVN collapse in the face of Northern pressure 
are in prospect. The Republic of Vietnam stands fragile but may 
yet have a future. The stalemated Cold War struggle for Vietnam 
will exceed 10,000 days. 
•	 6 or more, Player as US and/or ARVN—Communism 
Contained! More than peace with honor, the United States and its 
allies have demonstrated that the Free World will fight communist 
aggression wherever it may probe. The Republic of Vietnam is 
balancing its own style of governance with an extension of its 
writ into hamlet and paddy. As Moscow and Peking question their 
investments in Hanoi, the NLF withers on the vine. 
•	 6 or more, Player as NVA and/or VC—National Liberation! The 
twin strategy of People’s War and force modernization has brought 
the country to the brink of unity in independence. Colonialism is 
beating its final retreat from Vietnam. The US Imperialists and 
their Saigon lackeys will soon be running for their helicopters 
and headed to California. 
EXAMPLE: A solo US/ARVN player using Difficulty Option B avoids 
Non-player victory by keeping both US and ARVN margins equal to 
or above both NVA and VC margins upon each Victory Phase beyond 
the 1st Coup card. At game end, Total Support is 30 and there are 
20 US Troops and 2 US Bases in Available, for a final US victory 
margin of +2. With Patronage stacked up and widespread COIN 
Control, the ARVN margin is even higher. The NVA victory margin 
is -8 and the VC’s -4. The 6-point advantage over the Non-players 
(US +2 compared to VC -4) earns the player a razor-thin victo-
ry—“Communism Contained!”
Accompanying—Operation required for Special 
Activity. (4.1.1)
Activate—Flip or leave Guerrilla Active. (1.4.3)
Active—Status of Guerrilla with symbol end up and 
of all Bases and cubes (1.4.3).
Adjacent—Spaces next to each other for actions 
or Events. (1.3.6)
Advise—US Special Activity to use indigenous 
forces, add Aid. (4.2.1)
Agitation—VC spending to increase Opposition. 
(6.3.2)
Aid—Foreign assistance that adds to ARVN Re-
sources during Coup Rounds. (1.8, 3.2.4, 4.2.1, 
4.3.1, 6.2.3, 6.2.5)
Air Lift—US Special Activity that moves Troops 
or Special Forces. (4.2.2)
Air Strike—US Special Activity that removes 
enemy pieces and Degrades the Trail. (4.2.3)
Ambush—VC Special Activity ensuring Attack 
success. (4.3.1, 4.4.1)
ARVN—Nickname for Republic of Vietnam Fac-
tion (“Army of the Republic of Vietnam”). (1.0, 1.5) 
Attack—Insurgent Operation that removes enemy 
pieces. (3.3.3)
Assault—COIN Operation that removes enemy 
pieces. (3.2.4)
Available—Forces in holding boxes, waiting to be 
placed. (1.4.1)
Base—Mostly-immobile force pieces that affect Rally, 
Resources, and Victory, among other functions. (1.4)
Bases Last—Frequent requirement that no protecting 
cubes or Guerrillas be in a space before removing a 
Base. (3.2.4, 3.3.3, 4.2.3, 4.4.2)
Cambodia—The 4 foreign country spaces Siha-
noukville, The Parrot’s Beak, The Fishhook, Northeast 
Cambodia. (1.3.5)
Campaign—Event card series leading up to a Coup 
Round. (2.4.2)
Capabilities—Lasting Events that help or hurt a 
certain Faction’s actions. (5.3)
Casualties—US pieces removed by Attack, Ambush, 
Bombard, and certain Events. (3.3.3, 4.3.2, 4.3.3, 6.5)
City—Type of space: urban area. (1.3.3)
COIN (Counterinsurgency)—US or ARVN. (1.0, 
1.5, 1.7, 3.2)
COIN Control + Patronage—Total Population under 
COIN Control plus Patronage: the measure of ARVN 
victory. (1.9, 7.2-.3)
Commit—Send US forces from Available to the 
map. (6.5, 8.8.1)
Commitment—Phase in which US Forces enter or 
leave the map. (6.5)
Control—More COIN or NVA pieces in a Province 
or City than other Factions. (1.7)
Cost—Resources spent on an Operation, Pacification, 
or Agitation. (3.1, 4.1, 6.4)
Coup—Cards triggering Rounds that include 
victory checks, Resource acquisition, and several 
other periodic functions. (2.4, 6.0)
Cube—Troop or Police piece. (1.4)
Cylinder—Token to mark a Faction’s Resources 
or Eligibility (1.8, 2.2)
Deception—Optional victory markers. (7.3)
Degrade—Shift Trail toward “0”. (4.2.3, 6.7)
Dual Use—Event with 2 alternative effects. (5.2)
Earnings—Resources that Factions receive each 
Coup Round. (6.2.3-.4). 
Economic Value (Econ)—Resources that an 
unSabotaged LoC will provide via VC Tax and 
to ARVN in the Resources Phase. (1.3.4, 1.8.1, 
4.5.1, 6.2.1) 
Eligible—Faction able to execute Event or Opera-
tion: per Faction order, 1st and 2nd Eligible. (2.3)
Enemy—Relationship between an Insurgent and 
a Counterinsurgent. (1.5)
Event—Card with Faction order and text a Faction 
may execute. (2.3, 5.0)
Execute—Implement Event or conduct Operation 
or Special Activity. (2.3)
Faction—Player or Non-Player role: US, ARVN, 
VC, NVA. (1.5)
Faction Order—Card symbols determining Eli-
gibility. (2.3.2)
Final—Last Event or Coup card. (2.4.2, 7.3)
KEY TERMS INDEX

Flip—Switch Guerrilla between Underground 
and Active (1.4.3) or Tunnel between VC and 
NVA (4.4.1).
Forces—Troops, Police, Guerrillas, or Bases 
(pieces; not markers like Tunnels). (1.4)
Free—Operation or Special Activity via Event 
that does not cost Resources or affect Eligibility. 
(3.1.2, 5.5)
Friendly—A Faction to itself, or US to ARVN, 
or NVA to VC. (1.5)
Govern—ARVN Special Activity to gain Aid or 
Patronage. (4.3.1)
Guerrilla—NVA and VC forces piece difficult to 
strike when Underground. (1.4)
Halo—Card Faction symbol showing Non-player 
has an Event instruction. (8.4.1)
Handicap—A Victory option to assist less expe-
rienced players. (7.3).
Highland—Province type that hinders Assault. 
(1.3.2, 3.2.4)
Highway—Road, a LoC. (1.3.1, 1.3.4)
Improve—Shift Trail toward “4”. (3.3.1, 6.7)
Ineffective Events—Non-player avoidance of 
dud Events. (8.1).
Ineligible—Faction skipped in Faction order. 
(2.3.1-.2)
Infiltrate—NVA Special Activity that adds NVA 
Troops or replaces VC. (4.4.2)
Insurgent—NVA or VC. (1.0, 1.5)
Irregular—US Special Forces piece (1.4).
Joint Operations—Ban on US spending ARVN 
Resources below Total Econ (1.8.1, 3.1, 6.2.3, 
6.3.1).
Laos—The 2 foreign country spaces Central Laos 
and Southern Laos. (1.3.5)
Level—Support/Opposition status of a space. 
(1.6.1)
Limited Operation (LimOp)—Operation in 1 
space with no Special Activity. (2.3.5)
LoC—Line of Communication: Highway or 
Mekong. (1.3.4)
Lowland—Province type that generally does not 
hinder Assault. (1.3.2, 3.2.4)
Map—Board spaces: Provinces, Cities, and LoCs 
(1.3, 1.3.1).
March—Insurgent Operation to move Guerrillas 
and Troops. (3.3.2)
Mekong—River, a LoC. (1.3.1, 1.3.4)
Momentum—Events whose effects remain 
through next Coup Round. (5.4)
Monsoon—Restrictions on Operations and 
Special Activities on the Event card before each 
Coup card. (2.3.9)
Non-Player—Game-run Faction. (1.5, 8.0)
Neutral—Space not in Support nor Opposition. 
(1.6.1)
North Vietnam—An Insurgent Faction (NVA.) 
(1.0, 1.5) Also, a Province where only NVA and 
VC may stack. (1.3.5, 1.3.8, 1.4.2)
NVA—Nickname for North Vietnam Faction 
(“North Vietnamese Army”). (1.0, 1.5) 
Operation (Op)—Core action Faction takes with 
its forces. (3.0)
Opposition—A space’s population against the 
Saigon regime. (1.6)
Opposition + Bases—Total Opposition plus number 
of VC Bases on the map: the measure of VC victory. 
(1.9, 7.2-.3)
Out of Play—Box for pieces that are neither Avail-
able nor on the map.
Overflow—Boxes and markers to help manage cases 
of overcrowding. (1.3.8)
Pacification—COIN activity to increase Support. 
(3.2.1, 6.3.1)
Pass—Decline to execute an Event or Op when 
Eligible. (2.3.3)
Patrol—COIN Op to protect LoCs. (3.2.2)
Patronage—A measure of the Saigon regime’s 
success in diverting wealth to its friends to solidify 
its rule. (1.8, 1.9, 3.2.1, 4.3.1-.3, 4.4.2, 4.5.2-.3, 
6.2, 7.2-.3)
Pawn—Token to designate spaces selected for Op-
eration or Special Activity. (3.1.1)
Phase—Part of a Coup Round. (6.0)
Piece—Force unit: Base, Troop, Police, SF or Guer-
rilla (not marker like Tunnel). (1.4)
Place—Move a piece from Available to map. (1.4.1)
Period Events—Option to select from Events most 
historically suitable to a Scenario. (2.1)
Pivotal Event—Faction cards that trump other 
Events and Faction order (2.3.8).
Police—ARVN forces that maintain control and help 
pacify locals. (1.4)
Politburo—No Non-player rule allowing combined 
NVA/VC player to use the higher of the two scores. 
(1.5)
Population (Pop)—The inhabitants of a Province 
or City, about 500,000 South Vietnamese per point. 
(1.3.2-.3)
Priorities—Rules guiding Non-player Factions. (8.0)
Province—Rural space. (1.3.2)
Rally—Insurgent Operation to place or regroup 
pieces. (3.3.1)
Ranger—ARVN Special Forces piece (1.4).
Redeploy—Coup phase in which Factions move 
pieces. (6.5)
Remove—Take from map (forces to Available, 
Casualties, or out of play as specified). (1.4.1, 3.3.3, 
6.4.1 for example)
Replace—Remove pieces to place others in their 
stead. (1.4.1, 3.2.1, 3.3.1, 4.4.1, 4.5.2, 5.1.1)
Republic of Vietnam (ARVN)—A Counterinsurgent 
Faction. (1.0, 1.5) 
Reset—Coup phase to ready for the next card. (6.5)
Resources—Factions’ wherewithal for Operations. 
(1.8)
RVN Leader—Box for played Coup cards, showing 
which is currently in effect. (2.4.1)
Sabotage—Place a Sabotage marker on a LoC that 
does not have one, damaging it to block addition of 
ARVN Resources. (3.3.4, 6.2.3, 6.6)
Select—Choose an action’s locations or targets. (3.1, 
3.1.1, 4.1, 5.1)
Set—Change a space’s Support/Opposition to a 
prescribed level. (1.6.1)
Shaded—2nd choice of Dual-Use Event, often 
anti-US. (5.2)
Shift—Change Support/Opposition or the Trail. 
(1.6.1, 6.7)
South Vietnam (The South)—Spaces not a for-
eign country, including all LoCs. (1.3.5)
Sovereignty—No Non-player rule forcing com-
bined US/ARVN player to use the lower of the 
two scores. (1.5)
Space—Area holding pieces on the map: Prov-
ince, City, LoC. (1.3.1)
Special Activities—Actions accompanying Op-
erations, unique to a Faction. (4.0)
Special Forces—US-led Irregular or ARVN 
Ranger forces piece. (1.4) 
Stacking—Limits on pieces that can occupy a 
space. (1.4.2)
Subvert—VC Special Activity to remove or 
replace ARVN pieces. (4.5.2)
Support—A space’s population favoring the 
Saigon regime. (1.6)
Support + Available—Total Population Support 
plus Available US pieces: measure of US victory. 
(1.9, 7.2-.3)
Sweep—COIN Operation to move Troops and flip 
Guerrillas Active. (3.2.3)
Target—Enemy Faction or piece that is the object 
of an action. (3.1, 4.1)
Tax—VC Special Activity that adds Resources. 
(4.5.1)
Terror—Insurgent Operation that places marker 
of same name in a Province or City or Sabotage 
on a LoC. (3.3.4)
Total Econ—Marked value of unSabotaged LoCs 
as of prior Coup Round (1.8.1, 6.2.3)
Total Support/Oppostion—Calculation of 
popular views of the Saigon regime for victory 
purposes. (1.6.2, 7.2-.3)
Town—Map feature that bounds LoCs (not a 
space). (1.3.6)
Trail—Track for strength of North-South logistics 
net. (6.7, 3.3.1, 3.3.2, 4.3.2, 4.4.1, 6.2.2, 6.2.4, 6.6)
Train—COIN Operation to place pieces, Pacify, 
or reduce Patronage. (3.2.1)
Transfer—Move Resources among Factions 
or value among Resources, Aid, and Patronage. 
(1.5.2, 1.6, 4.2.2, 4.3.1)
Transport—ARVN Special Activity that moves 
Troops. (4.3.2)
Troops—Mobile COIN forces specializing in 
Sweep and rural Assault and NVA counterparts. 
(1.4)
Tunnel—Marker making a Base piece underneath 
difficult to destroy (1.4.4).
Uncontrolled—Space with neither COIN nor 
NVA Control. (1.7)
Underground—Guerrilla or SF, symbol end 
down: not subject to Assault or Air Strike and 
capable of Terror, Tax, Subvert, Ambush, Raid, 
or Advise. (1.4.3, 3.3.4, 4.2.1, 4.3.3, 4.4.3, 4.5.1, 
4.5.2, 4.5.3)
United States (US)—A Counterinsurgent Faction. 
(1.0, 1.5) 
Unshaded—1st choice of Dual-Use Event, often 
pro-US. (5.2)
Victory Margin—Calculation of a Faction’s 
closeness to its victory condition. (7.3)
Viet Cong (VC)—An Insurgent Faction (“Viet-
namese Communist”) (1.0, 1.5)
Withdraw—Bring US forces off the map into the 
US Available box. (6.5, 8.8.1)

SCENARIOS (2.1)
Short: 1965-1967 
Westy’s War—Escalating battle for the South
Deck: Place Young Turks as RVN Leader 
and Khanh beneath Young Turks; remove 1 
Failed Coup and all Pivotal Events. Shuffle 
24 (Period, if desired) Event cards and stack 
3 piles of 8 Events and 1 Coup. Remove all 
other cards.
•	 Aid: 15
•	 Patronage: 18
•	 Resources: VC 10, NVA 15, ARVN 30
•	 Support+Available: 38
•	 COIN+Patronage: 41
•	 Opposition+Bases: 23
•	 NVA+Bases: 10
•	 The Trail: 2 
	 US—6 Troops
	 ARVN—10 Troops, 3 Rangers
Capabilities: (if using period Events) 
Shaded—AAA
US Policy: LBJ (if US Non-player)
Da Nang, Kontum:
	 US—3 Troops
Saigon, Can Tho:
	 US—1 Base, 3 Troops
	 ARVN—4 Troops, 2 Police, 1 Ranger
Quang Tri:
	 NVA Control, Active Opposition
	 ARVN—1 Base, 2 Troops 
	 NVA—1 Base, 4 Guerrillas
	 ARVN—1 Ranger, 1 Police
Quang Tin:
Binh Dinh:
	 US—1 Base, 1 Irregular, 4 Troops
Pleiku: 
	 US—1 Base, 1 Irregular, 1 Troop
Khanh Hoa:
	 US—1 Irregular, 1 Troop
Hue, Kien Hoa, Ba Xuyen:
	 ARVN—2 Police
An Loc, Qui Nhon, Cam Ranh:
Binh Tuy: 
	 Passive Support
Quang Duc: 
	 VC—1 Tunneled Base, 2 Guerrillas
Kien Phong, Kien Giang: 
	 VC—2 Guerrillas.
North Vietnam, Southern Laos:
	 NVA—2 Bases, 1 Guerrilla, 6 Troops
Central Laos, The Fishhook, The Parrot’s 
Beak: 
	 NVA—1 Base, 2 Guerrillas
Medium: 1968-1972
A Better War—Looking for light at the end 
of the tunnel
Deck: Place Ky as RVN Leader and Khanh 
and Young Turks beneath Ky. Distribute 
Pivotal Events. Shuffle 36 (Period, if desired) 
Events and stack 3 piles of 12 Events and 1 
Coup. Remove the rest.
•	 Aid: 30
•	 Patronage: 15
•	 Resources: VC 15, NVA 20, ARVN 30
•	 Support+Available: 37
•	 COIN+Patronage: 44
•	 Opposition+Bases: 23
•	 NVA+Bases: 8
•	 The Trail: 3
	 US—5 Troops
	 ARVN—10 Troops, 3 Rangers
Capabilities: (if using period Events) 
Shaded—AAA, Main Force Bns, SA-2s, 
Search and Destroy; Unshaded—Arc 
Light, M-48 Patton 
US Policy: LBJ (if US Non-player)
General
Choose a scenario from the next two 
pages and any No Non-Player (1.5), 
Deception/Handicap (7.3), 1-Player 
difficulty (8.9), or Period Events (right) 
options desired. Prepare the deck per the 
instructions below. Give each player a 
Faction foldout and assign Factions 
to players (1.5). If Non-players (8.0) 
are being used, keep the Non-player 
Operations flowcharts and the Random 
Spaces foldout nearby.
Deck Preparation
Separate out the 6 Coup cards and 4 
Pivotal Events and shuffle the other 120 
Event cards. Place or remove Coup or 
Pivotal Event cards as instructed.
•	 Shuffle and randomly deal a number 
of Event cards (by Period, if desired) 
into equal piles as specified in the 
scenario. Shuffle 1 Coup card into 
each pile and stack 1 pile onto the 
other to form a face-down draw deck 
in easy view of all players. 
•	 Set aside the remaining Event cards. 
They will not be used and may not be 
inspected. 
Period Events Option
If desired for events more akin 
to the historical periods covered, 
select Event cards by scenario as 
follows. 
Short: 1965-1967
Westy’s War. Set out the “AAA” 
card and marker—the shaded 
Capability (5.3) is in effect. Then 
deal event cards into 8-card piles 
only from those marked “1965”.
Medium: 1968-1972
A Better War. Set out the Capability 
cards and markers as directed. Deal 
event cards into 12-card piles from 
those marked “1968”.
Full: 1964-1972
Nam. Form the top pile from 12 
random “1964” cards, the 2nd and 
3rd topmost piles from 12 “1965” 
cards each, and the bottom 3 piles 
from 12 “1968” cards each.
NOTE: There are 24 “1964”, 48 
“1965”, and 48 “1968” cards.
SET UP (2.1)

North Vietnam, Central Laos:
	 NVA—1 Base, 1 Guerrilla, 9 Troops
Quang Tri:
	 US—1 Base, 4 Troops, 1 Irregular
	 ARVN—3 Troops
	 NVA—1 Base, 3 Guerrillas
Hue, Da Nang, Qui Nhon, Cam Ranh: 
	 US—1 Troop
	 ARVN—2 Police
Quang Tin:
Kontum:
	 US—1 Base, 1 Troop, 1 Irregular
Binh Dinh, Pleiku, Khanh Hoa:
	 US—2 Troops, 1 Irregular
Phu Bon:
	 US—3 Troops
	 VC—2 Guerrillas
Binh Tuy:
	 ARVN—3 Troops, 1 Police
Saigon:
	 ARVN—1 Troop, 1 Ranger, 4 Police
	 VC—1 Base, 1 Guerrilla
Quang Duc:
Phuoc Long: 
	 COIN Control, Active Opposition
	 US—1 Base, 3 Troops
	 ARVN—2 Troops, 1 Ranger
	 VC—1 Tunneled Base, 3 Guerrillas
	 NVA—2 Guerrillas
An Loc:
	 ARVN—1 Troop, 2 Police
Can Tho:
	 US—3 Troops, 1 Irregular
Kien Phong, Kien Hoa, Ba Xuyen:
	 Passive Opposition
Kien Giang:
	 COIN Control, Active Opposition
	 ARVN—1 Base, 2 Troops, 1 Ranger
Southern Laos, NE Cambodia, The Fish 
Hook, The Parrot’s Beak, Sihanoukville: 
	 NVA—1 Base, 2 Guerrillas
Full: 1964-1972
Nam—Cockpit of the Cold War 
Deck: Distribute Pivotal Events. Shuffle and 
stack 6 piles of 12 Events (Period, if desired) 
and 1 Coup each. Remove the remaining 
48 Events. 
•	 Aid: 15
•	 Patronage: 15
•	 Resources: VC 5, NVA 10, ARVN 30
•	 Support+Available: 38
•	 COIN+Patronage: 35
•	 Opposition+Bases: 27 
•	 NVA+Bases: 4
•	 The Trail: 1
	 US—2 Bases, 10 Troops
	 ARVN—2 Bases, 10 Troops, 3 Rangers
GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 
www.GMTGames.com
US Policy: JFK (if US Non-player)
Saigon:
	 ARVN—2 Troops, 3 Police
Hue:
Qui Nhon, Cam Ranh, An Loc, Can Tho: 
Da Nang, Kontum:
Quang Tri, Binh Dinh:
	 US—1 Irregular, 1 Troop
	 ARVN—1 Ranger, 1 Police
Pleiku: 
	 US—1 Base, 1 Irregular, 1 Troop
Quang Tin, Quang Duc, Binh Tuy:
	 VC—1 Tunneled Base, 2 Guerrillas.
Phu Bon, Khanh Hoa, Kien Hoa, Ba Xuyen: 
Kien Phong, Kien Giang: 
North Vietnam, Central Laos, Southern 
Laos, The Parrot’s Beak:
	 NVA—1 Base, 3 Guerrillas