C
rossing into the Land of 1001 Nights, your caravan arrives at the fabled Sultanate of Naqala.
The old sultan just died and control of Naqala is up for grabs! The oracles foretold of
strangers who would maneuver the Five Tribes to gain influence over the legendary city-state. 
Will you fulfill the prophecy? Invoke the old Djinns, move the Tribes into position at the right
time and the Sultanate may become yours!
2-4
13+
40’-80’
x2
a
x4
x2
x4
! 5 Turn Order and Djinns Summary Sheets
! A Pad of Scoring Sheets
! 2 Player sets of 8 Camels and 
1 Player’s Turn marker each
! 2 Player sets of 11 Camels and 
2 Player’s Turn markers each
! 1 Bid Order Track & 1 Turn Order Track
! 90 Wooden Tribe Meeples:
! A Meeples bag
! 12 Palm Trees 
and 10 Palaces
! 30 Tiles (12 Blue valued Tiles: Villages & Sacred Places with a
Blue point value – 18 Red valued Tiles: Markets & Oasis with a
Red point value)
! 22 Djinn cards
! 96 Gold Coins (48 worth “5” 
and 48 worth “1” each)
! 54 Resource cards: 
36 Merchandise and 18 Fakirs
Components
Camel
Player 
marker
Ivory
Jewels
Gold
Papyrus
Silk
Spice
Turn Order Track
Bid Order Track
16 Yellow
Viziers
20 White 
Elders
18 Blue
Builders
18 Red 
Assassins
18 Green 
Merchants
10 Palaces
Meeples bag
12 Palm Trees
x6
Fish
Wheat
Pottery
Fakir
x18

Settingupthegame
If this is the first play, punch out all the pieces from the game’s
punchboards. Rather than discarding the empty frames, insert
them under the vacuum tray inside your game box. This will
help your tray stay flush with your game’s box top, preventing
pieces inside from spilling over when storing your game.
In 3- and 4-player games, each player takes 8 Camels and 1
Turn marker of the color of his choice . The extra pink and
blue Camels and Turn markers are not used. In 2-player games,
one player takes all 11 Pink Camels and 2 Turn markers, and the
other all 11 Blue Camels and 2 Turn markers.
Note: in a 2-player game, each player takes two Turn markers
instead of one. This means that each player will play two times
per turn (it is even possible to play two times in a row if you place
your markers on two adjacent spots).
Each player also gets 50 Gold Coins (9 coins worth “5” each +
5 worth “1” each) . Players should keep the value of Gold
Coins they hold face down (so that the exact amount remains
secret from other players) until the end of the game. 
Mix all 30 Tiles and place them randomly face up, to form a
rectangle of 5 x 6 Tiles: This is the Sultanate.
Mix all 90 wooden Meeples in the bag, then grab and drop
them in random sets of 3 on each Tile .
Place the Bid Order & Turn Order Tracks next to the Sultanate.
Take the players’ Turn markers and randomly place them on
the Bid Order track . This will determine in which order the
players initially bid for position on the Turn Order Track .
Shuffle all Resource cards to form a draw pile face down, then
draw the top 9 cards and lay them face up in a row, next to the
draw pile .
Shuffle the Djinns’ cards and set them face down in a draw
pile, then draw the top 3 and lay them face up next to the draw
pile.
Place the Palm Trees, Palaces and all remaining Gold Coins in
a bank within easy reach of the players .
The game can now start!
1 2
1 2

Object of the game
In Five Tribes, you play the role of a stranger venturing into the
legendary city-state of Naqala to maneuver the local Tribes, invoke
old Djinns and gain influence. At the end of the game, the player
with the most Victory Points is declared The Great Sultan and wins. 
Victory Points
You score Victory Points (VPs) at game end, in the following ways:
! 1 VP for each Gold Coin (GC) you own
! 1 VP for each Vizier (Yellow Meeple) you own + 10 VPs for
each opponent who has strictly less Viziers than you do
! 2 VPs per Elder (White Meeple) you own
! Sum of VPs for all your Djinns
! 3 VPs for each Palm Tree on all of your Tiles (those with
one of your Camels on it)
! 5 VPs for each Palace on all of your Tiles
! Sum of VPs for all of your Tiles
! Sum of VPs for each series of Merchandise (but not
Fakirs) you own that are all different
Game turn
At the start of the game and the beginning of all new turns, all
players must bid for Turn Order to determine the order in which
they will play this turn:
1. Bid for Turn Order
The player whose Turn marker is in first position (spot marked
“1”) on the Bid Order track goes first and announces which spot of
the Turn Order Track she wishes to place her Turn Marker on; she
immediately pays to the bank the amount of Gold Coins indicated
on that spot, and places her Turn Marker there.
The player whose Turn Marker is next on the Bid Order Track goes
next, paying for the spot of their choice, and so on until all Turn
Markers have been placed on the Turn Order Track. Except when
bidding 0, players cannot bid for, nor place their Turn Marker on, the
same spot as any other Turn marker already on the Turn Order Track.
If a player chooses to bid zero and there are already some Turn
Markers on “0”s, these Turn markers are laterally “pushed down the
aisle of 0s” to make room for the new Turn Marker: so whoever bids
last on “0” will be the first of the Turn Markers on “0”s to play; and
whoever chooses to bid first on “0” will always play last this Turn!
There can never be more than 3 Turn Markers placed on “0”s, so
if all three “0”s are taken, the last player must bid at least 1 (and will
get to play first, this turn!).
Players take their turn based on the position of their Markers on
the Turn Order Track, with the highest value Markers going first.
Oliver wants to play early this turn, but he doesn’t want to pay too
much: he remembers Gold Coins are worth Victory Points at the end
of the game. So he decides to go for spot marked “3”, paying 3 gold
to the bank and placing his Turn marker there.
Sam goes next: she can’t go for spot “3” since Oliver’s Turn Marker 
is already there, and “5” seems too much to pay for the privilege 
of playing before Oliver; Sam decides to pay 1 gold to the bank and
places her Turn Marker on “1” on the Turn Order Track.
Anna goes next: she wants to keep her gold for later and chooses 
to bid 0; she pays nothing and places her Turn marker on the “0”
spot closest to the length of the Turn Order track.
Peter goes last and sees that if he bids zero, he’ll pay nothing 
and still get to play before Anna, who will now play last; so that’s
what he chooses to do.
This turn, Oliver will play ﬁrst, followed by Sam, then Peter and
ﬁnally Anna.
C.
D.
E.

2. Player’s Actions
Once his/her turn comes up, each player takes all of the following
actions, before letting the next Turn Marker owner play:
2.1 Move Turn Marker
Take your Turn Marker off the Turn Order Track and place it onto
the first empty spot on the Bid Order Track. 
Note: If you go ﬁrst, this means you will also bid ﬁrst for
Turn Order, come next turn; in theory, if you bid enough each
turn, you might thus be able to play ﬁrst throughout the entire
game; but doing so will cost you, and the Gold Coins you are
bidding with are Victory Points you won’t have at game end –
so it might not be a winning strategy!
2.2 Move Meeples
Select a Tile that still has some Meeples (at least 1!) on it. Take all
the Meeples from that Tile in your hand and move them onto
adjacent Tiles (i.e. each Tile must be adjacent to the prior Tile your
Meeples moved through), dropping 1 Meeple on each Tile as you
pass through, until you run out of Meeples. 
There are 3 rules you must respect while moving these Meeples:
! Last Meeple Same Color rule
! No Diagonal rule
! No Immediate Backtracking rule
! Last Meeple Same Color rule: You choose the order in which
you drop Meeples from your hand as you move from Tile to
Tile, but you must make sure the last Meeple you drop goes on
a Tile that already contains at least 1 Meeple of that same color!
Note: During your moves, you can pass through Tiles that
contain no Meeples, dropping 1 Meeple on each as you pass
through, but you can NEVER end your move on an empty Tile,
since there must always be at least 1 Meeple of the same color
as your last Meeple already on that ﬁnal Tile!
!No Diagonal rule:All Meeples moves must be done sideways,
from Tile to adjacent Tile, never in diagonal. 
!No Immediate Backtracking rule: You can never immediately
backtrack onto a Tile you just passed through – though you
may go on that Tile again later during the same move if you
have enough Meeples to complete a loop.
It takes at least 5 Meeples to complete a loop. 
This green Meeple cannot reach the Oasis.
The second red Meeple cannot be dropped on the Small Market Tile, 
as this would be a backtracking move. 
Seeing an interesting move, 
the player takes the 2 Meeples 
from the left tile in hand. 
He then drops the yellow Meeple on an adjacent tile and 
the white Meeple on the following one; this move is legal 
because the last tile already contained 1 white Meeple. 
Drop the Vizier
Drop the Elder
- How to do a loop -

2.3 Tile Control Check
Once you finish moving the Meeples, take the last Meeple you
dropped on the final Tile back in your hand, along with ALL other
Meeples of same color that were already on that Tile before your
move. 
You should now have at least 2 Meeples of identical color in your
hand: the one you dropped last, and at least 1 Meeple of same color
that was already on that Tile before; otherwise, you didn’t follow
the Last Meeple Same Color rule on p. 4 – Try again!
If removing all the Meeples of this color from that Tile empties
it of all its Meeples, you immediately take control of the Tile:
place one of your Camels onto it to mark your ownership.
At the end of the game, you will score the VPs associated with
each Tile your Camels sit on.
Note: During your moves, you can pass through Tiles already
controlled by others or yourself (dropping 1 Meeple on each as
you pass through). If, as part of these moves, you end up
ﬁnishing your move on, and emptying, a Tile already under the
control of a player from all of its Meeples again, the control of
that Tile doesn’t change: it remains under the control of its
previous owner. Once a player’s Camel sits on a Tile, that Tile
will never change ownership.
2.4 Tribes Actions
Now do the Actions of the Tribe the Meeples you hold in your
hand belong to. You perform these Actions regardless of whether
you took control of the final Tile or not.
Moving onto the Tile already containing 2 White Meeples and none
others, you end with 3 White Meeples in hand and take control of
that Tile; if you’d opted to end your move on the Tile containing 
3 White Meeples and 1 Blue one, you’d have 4 White Meeples in hand,
but no control of the Tile.
This move let the player regroup 3 green Meeples in the Oasis: 
he can now use these Merchants. The other Meeples were 
dropped on the other tiles during the move. 
C.
Taking all the Meeples from the Small Market tile in hand, the player
then drops a green Meeple on the Oasis (1), a blue Meeple on the Big
Market (2), a red Meeple on the Sacred Place (3), a yellow Meeple on
the Small Market (4), and the last green Meeple on the Oasis (5).
When discovering the game, we recommend laying the
Meeples you drop down sideways rather than up, as you
plan your move, so as to be able to back up if need be,
during the planning stage of your move. Just remember to
stand the Meeples back up once your move is complete.
Yellow Viziers Tribe 
Place all the Yellow Meeples you just collected in front
of you. These will be worth some VPs at Game End.
White Elders Tribe
Place all the White Meeples in front of you. If you have
some left at Game End, they will score you VPs. You
may also choose to “spend” some of these Elders instead
during the game, to gain some Djinns and/or invoke
their power. 
Green Merchants Tribe
Put these Green Meeples immediately back in the bag
and take a matching number of Resource cards from
those lined face up, starting at the beginning of the
line. Do not replace any of the Resource cards you took
yet! (see Clean-Up p. 7).

It may thus sometime be possible to take control of 2 Tiles in the
same turn: a first Tile when you end your move on a Tile that only
had Assassins Meeples left on it; and a second Tile when performing
the Action of your Assassins, killing a Meeple on a Tile with a single
Meeple, within reach of your Assassins.
If you happen to run out of Camels while taking control of 2 Tiles
this way, you cannot take control of the Tile you assassinated some
Meeple in. You cannot choose which of the two Tiles you take control
of: you must take control of the Tile you ended your move on first.
2.5 Tile Actions
Once your Meeples’ Tribe actions are over,
perform the Action for the Tile your last Meeple
ended on, regardless of whether you then took
control of that Tile or not.
If you took control of a second Tile this turn using Assassins, you
do not get to perform the actions of that Tile; only those of the Tile
you ended your move on.
Each Tile has a small symbol indicating the type of action possible.
When the symbol is marked with a Red arrow, the Tile’s Action
is COMPULSORY:
Blue Builders Tribe 
Put these Blue Meeples immediately back in the bag
and immediately gain as many Gold Coins as follows:
! Count the surrounding number of Blue valued
Tiles, including the Tile you ended your turn on
! Multiply this number by the number of Blue
Meeples you just dropped back in the bag
BONUS: You can discard as many Fakir cards from your
hand as you wish, to increment that multiplier factor
by 1 for each Fakir discarded. 
Red Assassins Tribe 
Put these Red Meeples immediately back in the bag.
Kill ONE other Meeple: Remove it and immediately
place it back in the bag. 
This Meeple could either be:
! 1 Meeple of the color of your choice, located on
a Tile no farther away from your ﬁnal Tile than 1
Tile per Assassin you just dropped in the bag
(always counting sideways, never diagonally, for
distance purposes)
! Or 1 Yellow or 1 White Meeple currently held by
one of your Opponents in front of him/her.
BONUS: You can discard as many Fakir cards from your
hand as you wish to increase the range of your Assassins,
1 more Tile in distance for each Fakir.
IMPORTANT: If as a result of your Assassins Action,
you completely empty a new Tile out of ALL its Meeples,
you immediately gain control of that Tile! Place one of
your Camels on it, to show your ownership. 
x?
x?
There are 4 Blue valued Tiles surrounding the Red valued Tile you
ended your move on. Your last Meeple was Blue and there were
already 2 Blue Meeples on that Tile; so you put 3 Blue Meeples
in the bag. You also decide to discard 2 Fakirs. 
You immediately gain 4 x (3+2) = 20 Gold Coins. 
If the tile you ﬁnished your move on had also been Blue valued, 
then you would have gained 5 x (3+2) = 25 Gold Coins.
In a single Turn, these Assassins give 
their player control of not just 1, but 2 Tiles!
OASIS
Place 1 new Palm Tree on this Tile (there
are no limits to the number of Palm Trees that
can be on a Tile, unless you run out, in which
case this action is ignored).
VILLAGE
Place 1 new Palace on this Tile (there
are no limits to the number of Palaces that can
be on a Tile, unless you run out, in which case
this action is ignored).

For all other symbols, the Tile’s Action is NOT compulsory: You
can take this action if you wish, provided you are able, and willing,
to pay its corresponding cost.
2.6 Merchandise Sale (Optional)
Before wrapping up your actions for this turn, once all your Tribe
and Tile Actions are done, you may, IF YOU WISH, sell some
Merchandise (but not Fakirs) before ending your turn. 
To do so, discard one or more suits of Merchandise cards, all
different from each other, and immediately take from the bank the
corresponding number of Gold Coins: 1 - 3 - 7 - 13 - 21 - 30 - 40 - 50 or
60 depending on how many different Merchandise cards you hold
in a suit.
Note: Only sell when you are desperately short on Gold Coins
to bet on your turn order. Otherwise you are usually better oﬀ
keeping Merchandise to try and sell a larger suit later on. Even
if you don’t succeed in accumulating more Merchandise cards
of other types, you will be able to at least sell your suit(s) at
the same price on your last turn!
3. Clean-Up
Once all players have taken turns playing all their Actions, before
moving on to the next Bid for Turn Order Phase, the player closest
to the piles of Djinns and Resource cards must :
! Replenish the row of Resource cards:
Shift any Resource card that may still be face up to the front of
the row and draw new ones to make a total of 9 face up available.
In the unlikely event you run out of Resource cards in the Draw
pile, reshuffle any discards; if there are no cards left, then none
can be taken.
! Replenish the row of Djinns cards:
Shift any Djinn card that may still be face up to the front of the
row and draw new ones to make a total of 3 face up available.
In the unlikely event you run out of Djinn cards in the Draw
pile, reshuffle any discards.
Now you are ready to all move to the next Turn and start bidding
for Turn Order!
SMALL MARKET
Pay 3 Gold Coins and pick one Resource
card of your choice from among the ﬁrst 3 visible
(at the start of the line). As always, do not
replace any of the Resource cards you took yet!
LARGE MARKET
Pay 6 Gold Coins and pick 2 Resource
cards of your choice from among the ﬁrst 6
visible (at the start of the line). In the unlikely
event there is only 1 Resource card left to pick,
you must still pay 6 Gold Coins if you wish to
pick it in a Large Market. As always, do not
replace any of the Resource cards you took yet!
SACRED PLACES
Pay either 2 Elders OR 1 Elder + 1 Fakir to take
the Djinn of your choice, from among those
visible (place these Elders back in the bag, and
discard the Fakir). Do not replace the Djinn
card you take yet! (see Clean-Up). 
The Djinns grant you VPs at game end but can also have
useful special powers:
! Some special powers have a cost to use: in this
case, they can only be used once per turn, only
during the turn of the player who controls the Djinn.
! You can use the special powers of any Djinn you
took right away, without waiting; however if there
is a cost, you must be able to pay that cost now.
See the Djinns side of the Summary Sheet for a complete
description of their powers.
# cards in your suit
Gold Coins earned
Wanting to bid high in future turns to make sure you play ﬁrst for
the rest of the game, you decide to sell all your Merchandise now. 
You collect 30 Gold Coins for your ﬁrst suit of Resource cards 
+ another 7 for the 3 Resources you had in duplicate. 
The Fakirs can’t be sold.
Suit
#1
Suit
#2

Register your board game
Days of Wonder Online
WWW.DAYSOFWONDER.COM
We invite you to join our online community
of players at Days of Wonder Online, 
where we host a number of online versions
of our games.
To use your Days of Wonder Online number,
add it to your existing Days of Wonder
Online account or create a new account at:
www.daysofwonder.com/five-tribes
and click on the New Player Signup button
on the home page. Then just follow the
instructions.
You can also learn about other Days of
Wonder games or visit us at:
End of the Game
The Game stops at the end of the Turn during which either of
these 2 events occur:
! A player drops his last Camel on a Tile:
The player takes control of the Tile by placing his last Camel
and finishes his actions as normal; the game ends once ALL
players have had a chance to take their actions for this turn
too. The game then ends and final scores are computed.
! No more legal Meeples movement is possible:
This player, and all players after him, can no longer make any
move; they may still be able, and want, to take some other
actions, i.e. invoke the special powers of some of the Djinns
they own, and can do so before passing to the next player.
Once all players have played the Actions they could still take
(or passed), the Turn finishes; the game ends and scores are
computed.
Note: Correctly betting on your last turn can thus be crucial. An
imprudent player may bid some Gold Coins but still ﬁnd himself
unable to make any moves when his turn comes to play, depending
on what others did, and thus wasting some valuable VPs.
Scoring
Use the enclosed score sheets to
compute each player’s score (if in
doubt, see Victory Points on p. 3).
The player with the most VPs wins
the game and becomes Great Sultan
of Naqala! In the unlikely event two
(or more players) are tied, they will
have to learn how to share power
as Sultans – or play again!
Five Tribes
Five Tribes
TOTAL
Credits
Game Design: Bruno Cathala
I would like to thank my favorite playtesting team: 
François Blanc, Sébastien Gaspard, Maël Cathala and all those who convinced 
me with their enthusiasm that I was on the right track – with a special thought 
for all the players I met at Alan Moon’s and Bruno Faidutti’s Gatherings!
Illustrations: Clément Masson
Graphic Design: Cyrille Daujean
Days of Wonder, the Days of Wonder logo and Five Tribes are all trademarks or registered trademarks
of Days of Wonder, Inc. and copyrights © 2014-2015 Days of Wonder, Inc. All Rights Reserved.