The Game of Cooperative Fire Rescue
by Kevin Lanzing
2010 © Kevin Lanzing
Clockwork Colossus Games™
Rulebook v.1.1
Introduction
A fire has erupted in a large home, threatening the 
property and its occupants. As the first responders to 
the fire, players must enter the home to rescue the 
people trapped inside. Resources are scarce, and time 
is not an ally. As the fire spreads out of control, 
victims are endangered and the building approaches 
collapse. Players must cooperate to mount a 
successful rescue effort.
Objective
Flash Point is a fully cooperative game, meaning that 
players win or lose together. To win, players must 
rescue the victims trapped inside a burning home. 
The players fail if three or more people die, or if the 
house collapses from structural failure.
Table of Contents
Setup
Turn Order and Phases
Detect POI Phase
Player Action Phase
Advance Fire Phase
Search and Rescue
End of Game
Intro to the Advanced Game
Advanced Game Setup
Rescue Vehicles
Specialists
Hazardous Materials
Errata and Credits
Setup
Components List
All of the following should be contained within the 
Flash Point box:
rules (the ones you're reading)
10"x16" halves of game board
6-sided die
8-sided die
orange discs
white discs
black discs
blue discs 
round stickers (for the discs)
translucent white winks
player pawns
cards
Two Ways to Play
Flash Point is by no means a simulation. It is 
complicated enough, however, that learning all the 
rules in one sitting might present a challenge. For this 
reason, these rules are broken up into a Basic and 
Advanced Game. The Advanced Game follows all of 
the same conventions as the Basic Game, but 
incorporates advanced features like specialist roles, 
drivable vehicles, hazardous materials, and the fire 
engine's deck gun. For this reason, we recommend 
players start with the Basic Game. Once all players 
understand the basics, they will be prepared for the 
extra challenges of the Advanced Game.
If playing the Basic Game, read only up to the End of 
Game section. The remainder of the rules describe 
Advanced Game concepts.
Summary of Components
Below you will find a brief description of the major 
components and their uses in the game.
The Dice
Many elements of the game are random or semi-
random. These include the way that fire advances, 
and how new POI are discovered and added to the 
board. Two dice, one six and one eight-sided, are 
rolled together to generate a coordinate. Each space 
inside (not outside) the house corresponds to a 
particular dice roll. The dice are always rolled 
together.
 
Game Board
The board in Flash Point is composed of two 10"x16" 
cardboard panels. Placed side-by-side, these align to 
create the house which is the setting of the game. 

Each panel is two-sided. Flip both panels over to 
reveal a completely different floor plan!
White Discs
The white discs are doors. These go atop each 
doorway in the house, but not the entrances 
on each of the four sides of the house. Doors 
have two sides: open and closed. The players 
may open and close doors, but at the start of 
the game all doors are closed.
Orange Discs
The orange discs are smoke and fire discs. 
One side is smoke; the other is fire. These are 
added to the board as the fire advances, and 
removed as fire and smoke is extinguished by 
the players.
Black Discs
The black discs are "points of interest", or POI for 
short. These are places inside the house where 
something important may or may not be found. Until 
players MOVE to a POI, or they are otherwise acted 
upon, the nature of a POI is a mystery. There are 
three types of POI in Flash Point:
Victims - look like people; must be rescued.
False Alarm - a firefighter's shadow cast upon 
a vacant wall. Nothing here!
Hazardous Materials (hazmat) - have 
triangular yellow warning symbols.
Blue Discs
The blue discs are used in tandem with the 
Paramedic, a specialist role that may be used in the 
Advanced Game. They have no use in the Basic Game. 
Leave these alone for now.
White Winks
The white winks (7/8" translucent discs) are damage 
tokens. Walls may take damage from the fire, or by 
player action. At least 30 damage tokens should be 
included. Throw away excess winks, or keep them 
separate. Once all 30 damage tokens have been 
played to the board, the house suffers a structural 
collapse and the roof caves in. This is one way the 
game may end in defeat for all players.
Player Pawns
These pieces are the players themselves. Typically, 
each player controls only one pawn. For a solitaire 
game, it is acceptable for a player to play as two or 
more characters.
The Cards
There are three types of cards: AP surplus cards, 
specialists, and vehicles. Only the AP surplus cards are 
used in the Basic Game. Take a good look at all the 
cards anyway - some particularly useful information is 
printed on the back of each.
Before Playing for the First Time
One of the things you will notice the first time you 
open the box is the abundance of colored wooden 
discs. Each color represents a class of object. Orange 
discs are fire or smoke. White discs are open or closed 
doors. Black discs are "points of interest" (POI) - 
mystery spaces that must be investigated before they 
can be identified. Blue discs mark treated victims, and 
have no function in the Basic Game. Before playing 
this game for the first time, you must place the 
included stickers on the right color of disc. The edge 
of each sticker is color-coded to make this simple. 
Here is the process for getting your game ready to 
play:
The fire stickers go on the orange discs. There 

are 36 of these.
The smoke stickers go on the opposite side of 
each orange disc.
The open door stickers go on the white discs. 
There are eight of these.
The closed door stickers go on the opposite 
side of each white disc.
The mystery "?" stickers go on the black discs. 
There are 19 of these.
All remaining stickers go on the opposite side 
of the black discs.
Setting Up the Basic Game
Put the two halves of the game board 
together. Use the floor plan pictured on page 
2 (Game Board).
Place the doors (white discs) closed-side-up 
on each of the the eight doorways marked 
with an "X". The four doorways already 
marked with an open door symbol are 
entrances. These are always open, and do 
not need a door disc.
Of the POI (black discs), remove two of the 
ten victim and one of the false alarms. 
Remove all of the hazardous materials. They 
are not used in the Basic Game.
In the center of the board is a 2x4 room. Fill it 
with fire discs (orange, fire-side-up).
Take three POI discs and place them ("?"-side-
up!) on the spaces 15, 51, and 67. 
Players must determine the start player and 
turn order. The game is ready to begin.
Turn Order and Phases
Flash Point is played in turns, with three phases to 
each turn. These are:
Detect POI - If there are fewer than three POI 
on the board at the start of a player's turn, 
that player rolls to locate POI until there are 
three.
Player Action - The active player has 4 action 
points (AP) to spend however he pleases. See 
section E.1 for more detail.
Advance Fire - The active player rolls once to 
advance the flame, which can have a variety 
of effects. See section F.1 for a description of 
this phase.
When one turn ends the next begins, with turn order 
going clockwise around the table.
Detect POI Phase
At the start of each player's turn, he should check to 
see if there are fewer than three POIs (black discs) on 
the board. This includes POIs that have been 
identified (flipped over), such as a victim. If there are 
fewer than three POIs, he rolls the dice to detect new 
POIs. The result is a coordinate - a particular space on 
the board.
Valid locations for a POI are empty spaces and smoke 
clouds (orange discs, smoke-side-up). Invalid locations 
are spaces on fire and spaces where one or more 
firefighters are already standing. If the result for a 
"detect POI" roll is invalid, the active player must use 
the arrows at the corner of each square as a guide for 
locating POIs. The arrows trace a spiral that starts at 
33 and spirals outwards to 61 before jumping back 
to 33 and completing the circuit. If your first result is 
invalid, continue to follow the arrows until you find a 
valid space to place the POI.
For this Detect POI attempt, a 11 is rolled. This result 
is invalid, as there is a fire in this space. Following the 
arrows, 11 becomes 12 (invalid; fire) becomes 
13 (invalid; already occupied by another POI) 
becomes 14, which is empty and a valid space.
Player Action Phase
Starting Location
On a player's first turn, that player may enter the 
board standing on any space outside the house.
Actions
A player may perform any of the following actions on 
his Player Action phase. Actions are written in ALL 
CAPS for emphasis.
NOTE: "Adjacent" in this game always means up, 

down, left, or right. Diagonal spaces are never 
considered adjacent, for any purpose.
MOVE - players may move their player pawns to an 
adjacent space. Each step is a MOVE. Movement costs 
vary based on the situation.
Moving to an open/smoke-filled space: 1AP
Entering a space on fire: 2AP
Moving while carrying a victim: 2AP
OPEN/CLOSE DOOR - Any player may spend 1AP to 
flip an adjacent door disc to either its open or closed 
side. Open doors may be passed through freely by 
players, but are likewise no obstacle to fire.
EXTINGUISH - Players may EXTINGUISH smoke and 
fire in their own space, or any adjacent space. A fire 
or smoke disc that is extinguished is removed from 
the board. It costs 1AP to EXTINGUISH smoke, and 
1AP to convert fire to smoke. Usually it is best to 
completely EXTINGUISH fire (2AP), as smoke is liable 
to ignite and become fire again anyway.
CHOP - All firefighters carry an axe. This can be used 
to demolish walls, creating openings a firefighter can 
use to reach a trapped victim. It costs 2AP to CHOP an 
adjacent wall segment. This adds a damage token to 
the wall segment. A wall segment with two damage 
tokens is destroyed, and firefighters can pass through 
destroyed wall segments as if they were not even 
there. Be forewarned - all walls are load-bearing. 
Reckless demolition will only guarantee an early game 
over!
All of the actions described above may be performed 
in any order and combination, so long as they do not 
exceed a player's available AP. Unspent AP may be 
saved for next turn. The AP surplus cards record 
unspent AP from one turn to the next. These cards 
have four facings: +1, +2, +3, and +4. This indicates a 
number of unspent AP. Simply rotate these cards so 
that the correct number of unspent AP faces up. Each 
player should have an AP surplus card in his own 
color. No more than 4AP may be saved in this fashion.
Once a player has finished his Player Action phase, 
the Advance Fire phase beings.
Advance Fire Phase
The fire is the unthinking, unfeeling antagonist of this 
game. At the end of each player's turn, he rolls the 
dice once to advance the fire. Although the fire 
spreads randomly and mechanically, certain outcomes 
are inherently more likely. Players should plan 
accordingly.
Advance Fire Outcomes
The potential outcomes of an Advance Fire roll are:
1. smoke will spread to an open space
2. fire will spread to an adjacent space
3. smoke will ignite and become fire
an explosion will happen in a space already 
on fire
"Contiguous" in this game means "adjacent and not 
separated by a wall or closed door." As the fire can 
not pass through an obstacle, walls and closed doors 
slow the spread of fire. 
Once one of these four outcomes is resolved, players 
should check to see if any secondary effects occur.
Explosions
Whenever the fire advances into a space that is 
already on fire, an explosion occurs. Explosions 
spread outwards in all four directions. Not only can 
this spread the fire, it also damages nearby walls and 
doors.
An explosion radiates from its target space outwards 
in all four directions. Each "shock wave" will continue 
to travel in its respective direction, "rolling over" and 
skipping spaces on fire already, until it
1. hits something - a wall or closed door 

(damages/destroys what it hits)
2. encounters a space free of smoke or fire 
(spreads fire to that space)
3. vents harmlessly outside (no effect)
If a shock wave passes through an open door, that 
door is destroyed as well. This does not contain the 
shock wave, which continues unimpeded through the 
doorway until it hits something solid, spreads fire, or 
vents out of the house. Players, likewise, are no 
impediment to fire, although in the unhappy event 
that a player gets in the way of the shock wave he is 
knocked down. See Getting Knocked Down, below.
 11 is rolled for the Advance Fire result. As this space 
is already on fire, an explosion occurs. Shock waves 
radiate from 11 in all four directions.
Up - shock wave travels through the 
destroyed wall and vents harmlessly outside.
Down - shock wave rolls over fire at 21and 
spreads fire to 31.
Left - shock wave hits a wall. Add a damage 
token to this wall segment.
Right - shock wave rolls over two fires before 
hitting a closed door. The door is destroyed. 
Remove it from the board.
Getting Knocked Down
Despite their protective gear, firefighters are not 
fireproof. If fire spreads to a firefighter's location, that 
firefighter also catches fire and must "stop, drop, and 
roll" to put it out. Immediately turn the player pawn 
on its back to reflect this. Remove the fire disc from 
his space - it can't hurt that player again. On his next 
turn, that player returns his pawn to an upright 
position, and forfeits the rest of his turn. If the fire 
spreads to our player's space after he has gotten up, 
he is knocked down again. However, if this happened 
while he was already down there would be no further 
effect. Assuming he makes it to his next turn without 
incident, our player may take his next turn as normal. 
Although the players can't die in this game, 
firefighters who take stupid risks may become a 
liability to the team.
Victims completely helpless. If the fire spreads into a 
space occupied by a victim, he is literally toast. 
Remove dead victims from the board and keep them 
separate from rescued victims. Three dead victims is 
an instant game over!
Secondary Effects
Once the immediate effects of an Advance Fire roll 
have been resolved, secondary effects may occur. 
These are the incidental results of the advancing fire. 
Secondary effects include flashovers, deaths, knock-
downs, and total building collapse. Use the chart 
below to determine what secondary effects have 
been triggered.
Flashovers
Flashovers are a secondary effect. A flashover 

happens whenever a fire disc is contiguous with one 
or more smoke discs. After resolving the immediate 
effects of an Advance Fire roll, check to see if any 
smoke is contiguous with any fire. If so, flip the smoke 
discs over to transform smoke to fire. A single fire can 
ignite a whole mass of smoke at one time. Be very 
careful whenever venturing into a large smoke cloud, 
as any smoke disc that self-ignites (as the result of an 
Advance Fire roll) will also convert contiguous smoke 
to fire. 
A fire ignites two smoke clouds. Flip these over to turn 
them into fire. A third smoke is insulated by a wall, 
and does not "flash over".
Running Out of Fire Discs?
It is possible, although very unlikely, that your supply 
of fire discs will be nearly or completely used up at 
some point in the game. At the end of any Advance 
Fire phase where four or fewer fire discs remain, the 
fire is considered "oxygen-starved." Roll the dice once 
again, but this time remove any fire or smoke discs in 
the target space and/or all adjacent spaces. Roll again 
if you still have fewer than four fire discs in reserve. 
Then continue with the game.
Search and Rescue
The objective of each game of Flash Point is not to 
contain the fire, but to rescue trapped victims.
Searching for Victims
You can't rescue what you can't find. When they're 
not fighting fire, players should be making steady 
progress towards the POIs.
When a player pawn enters the space occupied by an 
unidentified POI, it is immediately identified (flip over 
to reveal). If the POI turns out to be a false alarm, 
remove it from the board and the game. If it is a 
victim, congratulations! But your work is not over yet.
Rescuing Victims
To rescue a victim, you must carry him outside. This 
slows you down. It costs 2AP to carry a victim along 
with you while you move, and you can't move 
through fire while carrying a victim.
The moment you step outside with a victim, he is 
immediately rescued. Remove your victim from the 
board, but keep rescued victims separate from dead 
victims. The moment all victims have been rescued 
and/or have perished, the game ends in victory or 
defeat.
End of Game
There are two ways that a game of Flash Point can 
end in defeat, and only one way that it can end in 
victory.
DEFEAT - Three Dead Victims
The game ends in defeat for all players the moment 
three or more victims are killed.
DEFEAT - Building Collapse
The game ends in defeat for all players the moment 
all 30 damage tokens are exhausted. All walls (internal 
and external) support the roof. Doors do not. Walls 
segments can only take two damage tokens before 
they are completely destroyed - no further damage is 
possible. Walls may be destroyed incidentally by 
explosions or purposely by players. Don't punch more 
holes in the building than you can afford.
VICTORY - All Victims Accounted For
The game ends in victory for all players the moment 
that all victims are rescued or have perished, unless 
there have been three or more deaths. With eight 
victims, you must rescue at least six to win. In the 
Advanced Game, players may tweak the difficulty by 
having more or fewer victims to save.

(End of Basic Game Rules)
Intro to the Advanced Game
The Advanced Game builds on the Basic Game. Every 
element of the Basic Game is retained in the 
Advanced game, with little or no modification. From 
this point, prior knowledge of the Basic Game rules is 
assumed. If a rule is not specifically mentioned or 
clarified in the Advanced Game rules, then the Basic 
Game rules still apply.
Advanced Game Setup
Setup has been modified to accommodate new game 
concepts, to allow multiple difficulty levels, and to 
make every game different with randomized opening 
conditions.
1 - 2.
(No change from Basic Game)
Multiple difficulty levels are available. They differ 
in the initial size of the fire, and in the starting 
distribution of POIs. Choose your poison:
One-Alarm Fire (EASY):
[2 explosions]
6 victims, 3 false alarms, 2 hazmats
Two-Alarm Fire (MEDIUM): [3 explosions]
8 victims, 4 false alarms, 3 hazmats
Three-Alarm Fire (HARD): [4 explosions]
10 victims, 5 false alarms, 4 hazmats
Roll the dice. Place a fire disc on the resulting 
space. Explode that same space. This will almost 
certainly damage walls and doors.
Repeat step 4 as many times as your chosen 
difficulty calls for. If your dice result is a space 
already on fire, it explodes once only!
Roll three times for the first three POI.
7.
Players must determine the start player and turn 
order. They also must choose a specialist card to 
represent their player.
Vehicles
The Advanced Game introduces two vehicles: fire 
engine and the ambulance.
Assembly
Each vehicle is composed of two cards, each a mirror 
image of the other. Place these together with the 
vehicle graphic facing outwards. Stick these into the 
stands, and voila! Instant vehicles!
The Ambulance
Rescuing victims in the Basic Game was no sweat; just 
carry them outside and you're done! In the Advanced 
Game, it is not quite so simple. Victims must be 
carried to the ambulance. The ambulance is always in 
front of an entrance, and can be driven around by the 
players. Nevertheless, this is a complicating factor 
that actually makes the Advanced Game more 
challenging.
The Fire Engine
Like the ambulance, the fire engine can be driven 
around and parked in any corner of the board. While 
standing beside the fire engine, a player can take the 
FIRE THE DECK GUN action to blast their corner of the 
board with a high-pressure water cannon. The deck 
gun is so powerful, in fact, that it can also knock out 
players and kill victims. It is best reserved for hopeless 
situations, when fire suppression is the priority.
Vehicle Placement at Start
The start player may place the fire engine and the 
ambulance at any corner of the board (not necessarily 
the same corner). These vehicles may only be placed 
where the fire engine or ambulance graphics appear, 
respectively. 
These "parking spaces" are color-coded red or blue 
for clarity. Note that the vehicles actually occupy two 
spaces each. They can be operated from within either 
space. Place the vehicles beside their positions, rather 
than directly on the board.
Vehicle Actions
The two vehicles present new opportunities and 
challenges. Three new actions are available to players, 
but a player must be standing on one of the two 
squares a vehicle shares to do any of them.

DRIVE - Both the fire engine and the ambulance can 
be driven to the next parking space of their respective 
type in either the clockwise or counterclockwise 
direction. To reach the opposite side of the board, 
two DRIVE actions must be taken. This moves the 
player as well as the vehicle. It costs 4AP to DRIVE 
either vehicle (2AP for the Driver/Operator), but is a 
great way to get around quickly. 
RIDE - This action is unique in that it is free (0AP) and 
can be done even on another player's turn. If you 
occupy the parking space of a vehicle (either square) 
while it is being driven, you can piggy-back and travel 
with the vehicle to its destination. A player may 
choose to RIDE or not RIDE, and any number of 
players may RIDE simultaneously. All players may 
choose to exit the vehicle from either parking space.
FIRE THE DECK GUN - Firing the deck gun is a 4AP 
action (2AP for the Driver/Operator) that cans be 
taken only with the fire engine. The deck gun can 
potentially EXTINGUISH large masses of fire in one 
burst. It targets only the corner of the board where 
the fire engine is placed, but is somewhat imprecise.
Before going any further, notice that the board can be 
broken into 3x4 quadrants. These quadrants are 
delineated with white brackets. Whenever you 
choose to FIRE THE DECK GUN, roll the dice. The 
result may or may not be a space on the your 
quadrant. If not, one or both values must be adjusted. 
Flip any "out-of-range" dice upside-down to get the 
opposite result. This is your adjusted roll, and it is 
guaranteed to fall within the quadrant. 
The deck gun targets your (adjusted) roll, completely 
extinguishing any smoke or fire in that square. It also 
"splashes over" into adjacent squares, completely 
extinguishing them too. 
The deck gun has a downside, which is that its high-
pressure spray will knock out firefighters in any of the 
affected spaces. This has exactly the same effect as 
catching fire, or being hit by a shock wave. Victims will 
be killed if hit with the deck gun, even if they have not 
yet been identified as a victim. Flip over any 
unidentified POI that is hit with the deck gun. Victims 
die. False alarms are discarded as usual. Hazmats are 
unaffected.
The fire engine (not shown) is parked in the lower-
right corner of the board. The green player chooses to 
FIRE THE DECK GUN. He rolls a 27, which is adjusted 
to a 57. The fire at 57 is extinguished, as are an 
additional fire and smoke in adjacent (not necessarily 
contiguous) spaces. Unfortunately, the POI at 56 is 
also hit. Identify (flip over) the POI, and then take the 
appropriate course of action.
Specialists
Each player has a specialist card. This is your character 
in the game, from beginning to end. Each specialist 
has unique abilities that makes him particularly well-
suited to certain situations. Players may choose their 
specialist, or draw one at random. 
Paramedic
The paramedic can resuscitate, or TREAT victims in his 
own square. This is a 2AP action. Place a blue disc 
underneath a treated victim to denote the change in 
status.
All players (not just the paramedic) may MOVE with a 
treated victim without having to carry him. Consider 
how many AP this will save before you TREAT a victim.
A player may only carry one victim at a time, but any 
number of treated victims may follow him.
Fire Captain
The Fire Captain may MOVE other players on his turn. 

He may help another player carry a victim or hazmat. 
The Fire Captain must spend as much AP as that 
player would have done had he chosen to MOVE in 
that same fashion on his own turn. For instance, It 
would cost 2AP to MOVE a player who is encumbered.
Rescue Specialist
The rescue specialist can not EXTINGUISH fire or 
smoke, but can CHOP down walls for only 1AP. He 
may MOVE diagonally, but only if there are no 
obstacles in the way. Diagonal movement sometimes 
intersects not one but two wall segments, as shown in 
the picture below. Unless both the near and far wall 
are open (collapsed, or an open doorway), diagonal 
movement is not possible.
The white player is the Rescue Specialist. Arrowheads 
represent directions he can legally MOVE, while "X"es 
are directions blocked by one or more obstacles. 
Although both doorways are open, our player may 
only move diagonally through the lower-left one. This 
is because the near wall is open (collapsed), in 
addition to the doorway.
Driver/Operator
The Driver/Operator may DRIVE any rescue vehicle for 
only 2AP. In addition, after firing the deck gun and 
rolling the dice, he may accept the result or reroll one 
or both dice. After rerolling one die, he may then 
choose to reroll the other, but is limited to a single 
reroll for each die. Like it or not, the second roll 
always replaces the first. 
Hazardous Materials
The base set of Flash Point contains only one variety 
of hazardous material, or "hazmat" - the flammable 
hazmat. Flammable hazmat can be identified by this 
symbol: 
If fire ever reaches the space occupied by a 
flammable hazmat, it causes an explosion as a 
secondary effect. Resolve this only after the preceding 
effect has been completely resolved. An explosion 
radiates in all four directions from the flammable 
hazmat. Once this explosion has resolved, remove the 
hazmat from the board and the game.
Disposing of Hazmat
To dispose of hazmat, simply carry it outside. Any 
space outside the house will do. Once disposed of, 
remove materials from the board and from the game. 
Firefighters are encumbered by carrying hazmat in the 
exact same way they would be if they were carrying a 
victim. A firefighter may not carry two hazmat at the 
same time, or a hazmat and a victim, or two of 
anything for that matter!
Errata and Credits
All graphics used in this game were either handmade 
by the author or exist in the public domain.
"One or more textures used in this game have been 
created with images from CGTextures.com. These 
images may not be redistributed by default, please 
visit www.cgtextures.com for more information." 
This game is dedicated to the brave men and women 
who regularly risk their lives to save people and 
property from fires and other disasters. Of the profits 
received by Clockwork Colossus Games, 10% will be 
donated to the Terry Farrell Firefighter fund.
Special thanks to my playtesters:
Matthew Evans, Chris Brown, Chen Ying Zhang,
Camilla Brown, Linda Pirkl, Ty, Jay, Rob, Alan, and 
many others.