RULES

Table of Contents
Introduction	
	
	
Overview of the Game		
	
Components	
	
	
	
	
	
The Right Mindset	
	
	
	
	
• Satisfaction	
	
	
	
• Personality Tokens	
	
	
• Trait Goals	
	
	
	
• Destinies	
	
	
Your Character	
	
	
	
• Gender	
	
	
	
• Traits	 	
	
	
	
• Occupation	
	
	
	
• Features	
	
	
Creating Your Character	
	
How to play	
	
	
Sequence of play 	
	
	
Sharing information 	
	
	
Chapters	 	
	
	
	
• Deck Types
Anatomy of a Scene	
	
	
Playing a Scene	
	
	
	
Player Signifiers	
	
	
	
How Scenes Work	
	
	
	
• Making Choices
	
• Resolving Cards	 	
	
	
• Card Effects	
	
	
Scene Types	
	
	
	
• Situation
	
• Secret
	
• Minor Scene
	
• Reveal Secret
	
• Reaction
	
• Special Effect
	
• Special Events and Linked Scenes	
Playing with Destinies	 	
	
	
• Effects on Destinies	
	
The Finale	 	
	
	
Gender Complications		
	
	
• Scenes with Special Requirements
	
• Customizing “I Know What I Want”
Organizing the Game	 	
	
Designer’s Thoughts	
	
	
Reestablishing the Tutorial	
	
Credits	
	
	
	
Tutorial Start	
	
	
Overview of the Game
In Fog of Love, players take turns playing scenes with important choices 
to be made.
You’ll have to decide between what is best for you and what is best for 
the relationship – and you’ll need to consider what your partner decides, 
as both of your decisions will have an impact on the shared outcome.
You’ll receive and lose satisfaction (  ), and you will receive personality 
tokens. You may change your character’s traits, and ultimately you’ll 
decide their final destiny.
In the end, the game is about fulfilling this destiny.
In Fog of Love, all can end well for both characters. However, it’s equally 
likely that one or the other – or both – will end with unsatisfied destinies.
As a player, you decide what destiny you’ll go for. Some destinies are 
tragic, some are romantic and some are… less charitable. Your destiny 
influences whether you play cooperatively or competitively.
Initially you have a handful of destiny cards, but as the game progresses 
you’ll secretly discard most of these until you select a final destiny at the 
end of the game – in the finale
Your character’s final destiny determines whether your character stays in the 
relationship or breaks up. It also sets some conditions you need to achieve.
Fulfilling your destiny relies on your partner’s actions as much as yours 
– it takes two to tango.
As you play, you’re therefore continuously trying to learn about where 
your partner might be going in the relationship in order to decide how 
to act and what destiny you should pursue.
Just like in a real relationship, your success will depend on your ability 
to read each other well.
Components
Rulebook (this book)
Game board
Dual-sided character cards (man/woman)
Card holders (pink and blue)
Player aids
Token boxes
Custom insert to organize all content
18 	 Card dividers
Cards
Love Stories (17 chapter/finale cards and 4 synopsis cards) 
110 	 scenes
38 	 traits
60 	 features
36 	 occupations
14 	 destinies (7 pink and 7 blue)
30 	 Tutorial cards
Tokens
choice tokens (4 pink and 4 blue weighted chips 
	
labelled A, B, C and D)
70 	 personality tokens (35 pink and 35 blue wooden tokens)
10 	 personality tokens with a value of 5 (5 pink and 5 blue 
	
wooden tokens)
A Romantic Comedy as a Board Game
Fog of Love is a game for two players. You will create and play two vivid 
characters who meet, fall in love and face the challenge of making an 
unusual relationship work.
You will play from the very first sparks of attraction through meeting in-laws, 
awkward situations, parties, thoughtful gifts, secret affairs, kids, arguments 
and reconciliations, to a hopefully happy ending.
Will the characters end up in a satisfying relationship, or will it all end 
in a dramatic breakup?
It’s easier and faster to learn the rules of Fog of Love by playing through the tutorial. Check the back of the rulebook to see how.
We recommend you avoid unpacking and mixing the cards before you’ve tried the tutorial.
Use the rulebook for reference or for learning the game only if you cannot play the tutorial.
Check page 11 to learn how to reestablish the tutorial if the cards have been unwrapped and mixed.
PLEASE NOTE: PLAY THE TUTORIAL FIRST
Warning! Not suitable for children under 36 months. Contains small 
parts that could be swallowed or inhaled. Please keep this information 
for future reference. Not a children’s toy. Age 17+ hobby gaming 
product. © 2017 Hush Hush Projects. All rights reserved. 
Made in China. Created by Jacob Jaskov.

1. 	 Put the game board on the table between the two players. 	
	
Notice that each player side has a color: blue and pink. 
2. 	 Take the card holder (g), the choice tokens (h) and the 	
	
token boxes with tokens in your character’s color (i). 
	
Place them in front of you.
3. 	 Decide which Love Story to play. Pick up the synopsis, 		
	
chapters, the finale and scenes that come with the 
	
Love Story. For your first play, we recommend playing 	 	
	
‘Sunday Morning Date’ – preferably as part of the tutorial. 
4. 	 Note any special rules in the synopsis. Then place it with 	
	
the overview side up on the synopsis spot on the board. 
5. 	 If you include any special events (from the Love Story you 	
	
chose above and/or from other 	Love Stories), place them 	
	
below the synopsis card. special events have this symbol 
	
in their lower right corner: 
6. 	 Place the chapters and the finale face down in a pile on 	
	
the chapters spot on the game 	board. chapter one should 	
	
be on top, then chapter two, and so forth. the finale 	 	
	
should be at the bottom.
7. 	 Sort any other scenes that come with the Love Story into 	
	
the 3 main decks (sweet, serious and drama). 
	
Each scene has a symbol in the lower left corner indicating 	
	
where it belongs: 
 
	
 is sweet, is serious and is drama.
8. 	 Sort any linked scenes that relate to the special events 
	
you included (in step 5) into the 3 main decks.
9. 	 Shuffle the decks and put them on the game board where 	
	
indicated. The custom ( ) space will be used in later 	
	
expansions.
10. 	Shuffle the trait, occupation and feature decks, and put 	
	
each deck on its spot on the game board.
11.	 The Love Story specifies which destinies to use. 
	
Each player receives a set in their color.
12.	 The player who last blew a kiss is the first player.
The Right Mindset
This is a game that tells a story. The more you infuse the game 
with your own imagination, the more rewarding it will be. 
To help you with that, some cards will ask you to tell something. 
In those cases, be as creative as you feel like. If you feel that it is 
hard to come up with something, just skip it.
As long as you follow the rules for sharing information (page 7), 
the game is designed to support fun dialogue and immersion.
You are each playing an imaginary character involved in an un- 
predictable romance. It’s a comedy, and it might also be a tragedy. 
As in all stories, your character can change. You can move the 
story in any direction you want it to go.
In the end, the game is all about creating a good story.
Even though you are representing your characters and acting on 
their behalf, you are also playing from a more ‘godlike’ position, 
exposing the characters to fun and crazy experiences. 
You are playing the story as much as you are playing the characters. 
Whether you fulfill your characters’ destinies or not at the end is 
therefore less important than the story you have created together.
	
After setup you should now create your characters (see page 6). 
	
First, however, there are a few concepts that need explaining.
The board early in the game. Players have made their characters 
and have played a chapter card and 4 scenes.

In Fog of Love, you keep track of two types of points: 
satisfaction (  ) and personality tokens. 
Fulfillment of your final destiny will depend on these points.
Satisfaction
Fog of Love is a game about a relationship and how satisfied 
your character is in the relationship. Most things you do in the 
game will influence this.
The number you have marked on your character card is your 
current satisfaction. Use one of the tokens in your color to 
track satisfaction on the character card. satisfaction is 
shown on cards like this: .
The higher the number, the happier and more satisfied you 
are in the relationship.
Whenever you get an effect that says: +2  or -2  you 
move your token up or down the relevant number of spaces.
 
When you reach 10 satisfaction points, place a counter in the 
middle of the card for each 10 and continue around the track.
You cannot have negative . You can only lose the 
positive  that you have accumulated. If you are asked 
to lose more, you’ll stay at 0 .
3*
2*
Sincerity
Honest, modest, fair
Extroversion
Extroverted, sociable, assertive
Sensitivity
Sensitive, anxious, sentimental
Curiosity
Curious, creative, unconventional
Gentleness
Gentle, cooperative, forgiving
Discipline
Organized, diligent, hard-working
Deceitful, pretentious, 
self-centered
Introverted, 
shy, reserved
Thick-skinned, 
calm, unsentimental
Closed-minded, prosaic, 
conventional
Rough, antagonistic, 
stubborn
Disorganized, 
reckless, lazy
personality dimensions
personality dimensions
k
k
j
(j)	 A personality dimension. There are 6 personality dimensions. 
(k)	 Two aspects related to sensitivity. There are 12 aspects in all. 
Personality Tokens
Most choices you make in Fog of Love are aligned or 
misaligned with your character’s personality. 
You keep track of your choices by placing personality 
tokens on the central area of the board. 
It contains six personality dimensions (Discipline, Curiosity, etc.), 
each with two aspects represented by an up and down arrow.
You track your choices using personality tokens (i) 
in your color.
The points you receive are signified by a symbol for a 
personality dimension inside an up or down arrow. 
For this: 
you place your token on the arrow pointing up 
(the up aspect) next to gentleness. 
It’s possible (and likely) to have personality tokens 
on both the up and down aspects within a personality 
dimension at the same time. 
You never remove personality tokens unless 
specifically asked to do so.
“Do you think these 
pants fit me?”

“Honey dear. Please don’t 
forget our anniversary. 
Are you listening to me?”
You will stay in the relationship
- but you will only be happy if your partner is happy.
You will fulfill your destiny if...
You have an individual balance of
Your partner’s  is 40 or more.
Your partner does not break up.
 
Unconditional Love
 43 * 
Destinies
Most destinies – but not all – rely on your .
You get  by making the right choices in the 
scenes you play throughout the game and by 
fulfilling your character’s trait goals.
If neither of the characters end happy, it’s very 
difficult to fulfill any destinies. Just one happy 
character is, however, enough to make some 
relationship constellations tick. 
unconditional love can, for example, be fulfilled 
if just your partner is happy. You don’t need to care 
about your own .
Besides , several destinies require a certain 
balance of personality tokens. In order to fulfill 
unconditional love, your character must make 
sincere choices.
With unconditional love, you’ll stay in the 
relationship. You also need your partner to stay. 
Some destinies do, however, result in a breakup. 
They will be introduced in one of the included 
Love Stories. Such destinies can have a large 
impact on your partner’s ability to fulfill their chosen 
destiny. 
Use them with care. 
For detailed rules on destinies, see page 10.
Trait Goals
Each character will have preferences for choices 
made in the game. These are represented by traits 
that have trait goals.
At the end of the game, personality tokens are 
the way you fulfill trait goals. Fulfilling trait goals 
gives .
Fulfilling an individual trait goal depends on your 
balance. This is the difference between the number 
of tokens on a related up and down aspect. 
So if you have this on your trait card:
...you’ll need at least three more personality tokens 
in your own color on the aspect pointing up 
(gentleness up) than you have on the opposite 
aspect (gentleness down).
Below is a fulfilled trait with the above trait goal:
Example: Your trait goal says that you need: 
This is pretty kind .You have, however, been a bit 
rough and have accumulated: 
 
To reach your trait goal you therefore need:
to balance this roughness out.
Shared Trait Goals
With a shared trait goal you should count the com-
bined balance of both players’ personality tokens. 
So with this trait goal:
…you’ll barely succeed if your and your partner’s 
personality tokens are distributed like this:
When you have a shared goal, you don’t just care about 
your own behavior but about your partner’s as well.
If you have 2 trait goals that share the same aspect, 
the balance requirements for the second trait goal 
are doubled. 
At game end you decide which trait goal will be first 
and second. 
Requirements are tripled for the third similar trait 
goal, if you (most unlikely) happen to have one.
Individual balance is
Shared balance is

Creating Your Characters
After you’ve setup the game (see page 3), you are ready to create your 
characters.
1. 	 Each player selects the gender of their character by flipping the 	
	
	
appropriate side of their character card up. Put the character cards 		
	
on the game board where they belong.
2. 	 Deal 5 traits to each player. These may only be seen by the player 		
	
who received them.
Select 3 out of the 5 traits you received, and place them in your card 
holder, hidden from your co-player. When selecting traits, it’s a good 
idea to avoid choosing cards with opposite trait goals (having aspects 
that point in opposite directions), as these can’t all be fulfilled. You should 
also avoid cards with the same symbol in the same direction. They are 
harder to fulfill as explained earlier (page 5). Place the leftover cards 
beneath the traits deck.
3. 	 Deal 3 occupations to each player. Each player selects 
	
1 occupation, which are revealed simultaneously. Place them 	
	
	
face up on the occupation spot near each player on the game board. 	
	
Place the leftover cards beneath the occupations deck (e).
4. 	Deal 5 features to each player. Think of features as the things you 		
	
first noticed or fell for in your co-player’s character. In turn, select a 		
	
feature for your co-player’s character. First player starts. Place the 	 	
	
feature on your co-player’s side of the board. 
When placing the card, try to tell what it was about this feature that 
your character fell for (e.g., “When we first met, I immediately noticed 
your ‘broad shoulders’ and knew you would be the kind of person 
I’m looking for”).
Don’t make up how you met. This will be done later. Just tell what you 
noticed about the other.
Continue this back and forth until you each have selected and placed 3 
features for the other player’s character. Then place the leftover cards 
beneath the feature deck.
5. 	 Each feature and occupation gives you a personality token, as 	
	
	
indicated by the symbol in the lower right corner of the card. 	
	
	
Place the 4 tokens on the relevant aspects on the board. 
6. 	 Choose a name that is not your own name. Remember, you are 	
	
	
playing fictional characters.
7. 	 Now take a moment to introduce the characters you have created. 		
	
Tell each other who your characters are in a few sentences. You 	
	
	
should still not tell about how you met.
8. 	 Each player draws 5 scenes for their starting hand. The synopsis 	
	
	
defines how many cards to draw from each deck.
	
	
	 	
	
 Now you are ready to play.
TRAIT GOAL
Shared balance is
Inclined to excessive worrying, especially 
about unimportant matters.
Worrywart
Politician
 102 *
Gender
Select your gender by flipping the appropriate side of your character card up. Gender has virtually no influence in 
this game, but it is important for the purpose of role playing. The few exceptions will be explained later (page 10).
Traits
Your traits represent your character’s inherent personality traits. 
As explained earlier, your character becomes happier in the relationship 
if these are ultimately fulfilled.
traits have trait goals, which give you incentives to make certain types 
of choices in the game. 
For example, As a Worrywart, you must seek a shared balance of	
	
	
 or more.
traits do not bind you. Like in any romantic comedy, your character might change their personality later in the game. 
You can play against one of your traits because you hope a scene later in the game will allow you to change it (see 
page 9 to read more about change). This, of course, involves some risk but also a great reward in terms of storytelling.
Occupation
This is what your character does for a living. Your occupation gives 
you 1 personality token. A few scenes allow you to change your 
character’s occupation later in the game (see page 9).
For example, Politician gives you
Features
features represent what others notice about your character. 
They are defined by the other player. A few scenes allow you to 
change your character’s features later in the game (see page 9). 
Each feature gives you 1 personality token.
For example, Body Odor gives you
Body odor
Your Character

How to Play 
Chapters
During your turn, you do the following:
1. 	 You may discard a minor scene to draw a new scene. Repeat as many times as you want.
2.	 Play a scene from your hand and resolve it (secrets are not resolved, but will stay hidden).
3. 	 Draw scenes into your hand so you end up with 5 scenes. If you somehow already have 5 or 
	
more 	scenes in hand, you won’t draw any additional scenes.
4. 	 Check for chapter end.
Players alternate taking turns until the number of scenes played is equal to chapter length 
(which is indicated on the current chapter card).
After the current player has finished their turn, you’ll reveal the next chapter card. This does not count 
as a player action.
What may you NOT do? (unless allowed by a scene)
Reveal your scenes in hand.
Reveal your destinies.
Reveal your traits and your trait goals.
Reveal your secrets in play.
Openly discuss what would be the best thing to choose in a scene.
What CAN you do?
Talk about the characters’ relationship in overall terms and where you want it to go 
	
(not necessarily honestly).
Indicate that you are happy or unhappy with choices already made.
Role play the characters and establish the situations that give flavor and life to the game.
The game is structured into multiple chapters, usually 3 or 4. The first 
chapter is usually the sweet one. More serious and dramatic events 
come into the characters’ lives in the middle chapter(s). The tension 
increases in the last chapter up to the finale.
The first card played in the game is chapter one. It tells you how the 
story begins. Place the chapter one card in the play area, right next to 
the personality dimensions.
Read the card out loud. Then make your choices and resolve any 
additional effects. How to resolve these will be explained below.
After resolving chapter one, the first player takes their first turn.
The main function of chapters (beside driving the overall story) 
is to define what deck you may draw scenes from during the game. 
This influences the dramatic curve of the story.
In the lower right corner are the icons representing the different 
scene decks. You may only draw from the deck that is indicated 
on the current chapter card (unless told otherwise by a scene). 
The icon has no impact on what scenes you may play.
At the bottom of all chapters, you’ll also find the length of the chapter 
illustrated like this:
Once the number of scenes played reaches this number and the player 
has drawn new scenes, the chapter ends (as explained later, don’t count 
unrevealed secrets or minor scenes in the number of scenes played).
Remove all cards from the play area, and place them in the discard pile 
next to the sweet deck. Place them face up. This will help you remember 
who played the last scene when you begin playing scenes again in the 
new chapter.
Deck Types
The deck types are:
	
	
The sweet deck is about romantic and sweet experiences.
	
	
The serious deck is about the important events that 
	
	
happen in life.
	
	
The drama deck is about dramatic situations, secrets and 	
	
	
	
scenes of personal change.
	
	
The custom deck will only be used in later expansions for 
	
	
special Love Stories.
Draw cards from:
Length: XX cards
	
Sharing Information
Sequence of Play
“Being around you gives me 
butterflies!”

Anatomy of a Scene
This is the title of the scene. The title at the bottom of the card is 
similar to the one at the top. Sometimes it’s abbreviated slightly.
The overall type of card. It defines who chooses and might also specify 
other types of cards.
Explains a bit more about the choice you are going to make.
The available choices in this scene. Text in bold is what chooser says. 
A parenthesis is used when there is an exception to this rule. This works 
slightly differently for chapters.
Choice effects on chooser and other. If both select the same, 
each will be chooser and other. E.g., if both choose option A, 
nobody will gain or lose .
This tells you that the scene belongs to the drama deck. 
The symbol is placed in the corner to make it easy to sort the cards 
when you’re done playing.
This is what the player of the card says. Explanatory text in parenthesis is used 
when there is an exception to this rule. This area works slightly differently for 
chapters, which aren’t played by a specific player.
The personality tokens gained by the chooser of an option.
These additional effects depend on how both players chose. A match in this 
scene can end very negatively (Match B) or with an okay outcome (Match C).
Some cards have effects that aren’t explained in the rules. They are always 
explained on the card, like trade in this example. All the effects are highlighted 
using a red color for easier recognition.
You won’t use the card ID for now. The * tells you that the card belongs to the 
tutorial.
Some types of scenes have an icon in the lower right corner (not this card 
though). This icon makes it easier to distinguish the scene, when it’s put in the 
play area. It can also help you find the scene, when a card asks you to scan the 
deck for it. Then you just need to skim through cards in the deck looking at the 
lower right corner. 
 63 * 
Argument at the restaurant
I can’t believe you did that! This kind 
of thing makes me so mad!
BOTH CHOOSE
How do you both continue the discussion?
Sorry, honey. You’re right. I’m wrong.
chooser -2  
other +2 
You know I’m right!
chooser +1  
other -1 
Let’s stop this stupid fight. I love you and 
just want to have a good time with you.
chooser -1 
ADDITIONAL EFFECTS
Match B: The fight escalates dramatically. 
both -2 
Match C: both secretly select a scene from their hand to give 
to the other. You then trade scenes simultaneously.
Argument at the 
restaurant
Playing a Scene
When a player plays a scene, they place it on top of the last played scene (or chapter) in the play area. 
Place it so that the lower part of the last scene or chapter card remains visible.
You can read it aloud if you choose. All information on the scene is available to both players 
(unless it’s a secret, but then you don’t play it in the play area).
Player Signifiers
On the cards, the players can be referred to in various ways:
player & partner:
	
• player is always the player who played the card.
	
• partner is always the player who did not play the current card.
chooser & other:
	
• chooser always refers to the player who made a particular choice.
	
• other always refers to the player who is not making the current choice.
	
• This means that on a both choose card, both players will be chooser 
	
 for their respective choices and other for the other player’s choices.
PLAYER / PARTNER
CHOOSER / OTHER

How Scenes Work
Scene Types
Making Choices
Most scenes and all chapters ask you to make a 
choice. When making choices, you aren’t allowed to 
discuss what to choose. The choice is based on what 
you already know – and on your intuition, of course. 
There are two types of choices in the game: 
partner chooses and both choose.
PARTNER CHOOSES
The player who didn’t play the scene – which in our 
terminology is the partner – gets to choose. person-
ality tokens awarded by the choice are also given to 
the partner (which is the one who made the choice).
BOTH CHOOSE
Both players simultaneously and in secret select one 
of the options (A, B, C, D). Use a choice token to 
represent your choice. Place the selected choice 
token face down on the board on the choice circle 
and both reveal it simultaneously.
Resolving a Scene
When resolving a scene, go through these steps:
Personality tokens: Most choices will award the 
chooser one or more personality tokens. 
This is indicated by aspect icons to the right of them 
(e.g., ). Place your personality tokens on the 
corresponding places on the board.
In a partner chooses scene, only the choosing player 
gets personality tokens.
Choice effects: A choice will often impact the 
chooser or the other in some way, for example by 
influencing . Resolve all effects before continuing.
Additional effects: Most cards with both choose 
will have some additional effects. If there are any, it’s 
time to resolve them. These effects depend on what 
both players chose. Notice that you’ll often get more 
 if your choices match (but not always).
Card Effects
Change: Some scenes ask you to change something – 
usually a trait. When you are changing, you will either 
randomly or by choice (depending on the scene) 
discard one of your traits, features or occupations 
(depending on what you are asked to change).
First, put the discarded card face down under the 
relevant deck. Then, draw 3 new cards of the relevant 
type and select one of them. The leftover cards are 
placed under the deck.
Changing a feature or an occupation will impact 
your personality tokens. Remove the token provided 
by the discarded card, and add a new one for the 
new card.
Tell: When a card asks you to tell something, you 
must come up with a bit of storytelling to fill in the 
rest. Be creative!
Reveal: When asked to reveal a card, show it to your 
co-player and then hide it again. If a card asks you to 
reveal a secret, this will trigger the reveal effect of 
the secret. Place the secret in the play area.
Discard: Discard the card face down (unless speci- 
fically instructed otherwise) in the discard pile next 
to the sweet deck.
Other effects: There will be other effects. They are 
always explained on the cards.
Besides the both choose and partner chooses, there are a couple of 
other types of scenes in Fog of Love.
Situation
You play a situation on your turn. situations are played in the play area, 
like most other scenes. Unlike most other scenes, however, they usually 
don’t have any choices on them. Instead they have an impact on the next 
scene played, often influencing the effects of that card. Two (or more) 
situations can be played right after each other, but only the most recent 
one will have an effect.
This carry-over effect is marked by the following icon in the lower right 
corner of the card:
This icon is used whenever there is a carry-over effect and not just for 
situations. It serves as a reminder when playing the next scene in the 
play area.
A situation will never impact a chapter or the finale. If it is played 
right before a chapter ends (and thus before the next chapter card is 
revealed), it will impact the next regular scene played in the new chapter.
Secret
When you play a secret, it is placed face down in front of you beneath 
the edge of the game board. It is kept secret until another scene reveals 
 it or until the game ends.
If it is revealed, you read out the card and resolve the ‘reveal’ effects. 
You also give the player the personality tokens indicated on the top 
of the card (if any).
If the secret isn’t revealed during the game, you will reveal it at the finale 
and will then resolve the ‘if not revealed’ effects. The player now gets the 
personality tokens indicated on the top of the card (if any).
A secret doesn’t count towards the chapter length while it remains 
unrevealed. Playing a secret, however, still ends a player’s turn. 
If a secret is revealed, place it in the play area as you would with 
any other scene. It now counts towards the chapter length.
Minor Scene
minor scenes don’t count towards chapter length. minor scenes have 
this symbol in the lower right corner:
Rather than placing them in the play area, minor scenes are placed in 
the discard pile next to the sweet deck after they have been played. 
They still end a player’s turn.
At the beginning of your turn, you may discard any number of minor 
scenes face up and immediately draw new scenes to replace them. 
You may only draw from the deck(s) specified by the current chapter. 
If you draw new minor scenes, you may continue discarding and 
drawing new cards.
Reveal Secret
Reveal and resolve a secret played by the other player. reveal secret 
 is a minor scene.
Reaction
reactions can only be played as a response to other scenes just played. 
The reaction always specifies when you can play it. reactions can’t be 
played in response to a chapter or a finale card.
Each reaction is different. Some might allow you to skip the scene just 
played, others might allow you to change the choice your partner 
 just made.
Because they are played out of turn order, they never count as a player 
turn. You immediately draw a new scene after playing a reaction. 
reactions are minor scenes. 
Special Effect
Some scenes have unique effects. Together they are called special 
effects scenes. The special effect is specified on the scene.
Special Events and Linked Scenes
special events aren’t included in the decks but are put aside under the 
synopsis card at the beginning of a game.
Special events have this symbol: or 
It’s easy to miss that these two symbols are the same, since one of them 
is placed in a box that looks like multiple cards]
Some scenes allow you to shuffle a special event into a deck. 
These linked scenes are marked with one of these symbols:
special events will be introduced in some of the Love Stories included 
in the box.
You can include the special events in any Love Stories you play. You don’t 
need to play the specific Love Story in which they were included. 
When you include a special event, you should also include the linked 
scenes that relate to it. Sort the linked scenes into the main decks (sweet, 
serious and drama) and place the special event under the synopsis.

Scenes with Special Requirements
A few scenes depend on specific gender constel-
lations (e.g., man and woman) or refer to choices 
specifically for him or her. If you aren’t allowed to 
play a card because the gender does not corre-
spond, you can discard it at any time and draw a new 
scene instead.
[Spoiler alert] 
Customizing “I Know What I Want”
Don’t read ahead if you don’t yet want to know about 
the story in “I Know What I Want.”
There are a few scenes in the Love Story “I Know 
What I Want” that depend on specific genders. 
That’s because the story is – among other things 
– about having children. If you want to, you can of 
course ignore these dependencies.
You can shuffle the special scene into the serious 
deck right from the beginning (rather than place it 
under the synopsis) to make it possible to have a 
child even if you are playing a couple of two men 
(two women can have a child, since one of 
them can become pregnant. As in real life, this can 
happen without having sex in Fog of Love). 
Remove any linked scenes that don’t fit your story, 
before sorting the rest in. The storyline will then be 
about adoption rather than somehow becoming 
pregnant (which all the linked scenes are about) 
in order to have a child. What you do is up to your 
imagination. 
This of course also applies if you want to use the 
special event and the linked scenes in other Love 
Stories. You can customize as you want.
The game comes with 18 dividers to help you 
organize the game.
Scene Decks – 3 dividers
There is a divider for each of the main decks: 
sweet, serious, drama. Use these to make it easy to 
setup the game.
Love Stories – 7 dividers
The game includes 4 Love Stories. Each Love Story 
comes with unique synopsis, chapter and finale 
cards plus additional scenes. There is a divider per 
story. 
The regular scenes that come with a Love Story 
(i.e., not special events and linked scenes) can be 
used freely in other Love Stories. You can therefore 
just add them to the three main decks, rather than 
keep them with the Love Story they came with.
The game comes with 3 extra dividers for Love 
Stories that will be released later. These dividers will 
make it easy to include the expansions in the main 
box when the time is right.
Character and Destinies – 2 dividers
There is a divider for the pink cards and one for 
the blue cards. 
Special Events – 1 divider
The special events and their linked scenes should 
be kept together, as they belong together. You can 
organize them using the special events divider.
Tutorial – 1 divider
Keep the 30 Tutorial cards here. You might use 
them later, if you want to introduce others to 
the game.
Miscellaneous – 4 dividers
These extra dividers can be used for anything. 
Perhaps you got some special promo cards for 
Fog of Love that you want to keep, or there are a 
few cards you don’t like to use – or you have made 
your own fan expansion. Feel free to use these 
dividers for whatever need you might have to or-
ganize further. If you happen to have disorganized 
as one of your traits in real life, you can also just 
forget about them. 
playing with destinies
the finale
gender complications
Organizing the Game
These cards must always be kept secret.
Throughout the game, some cards will make you discard your destinies. 
You always discard destinies face down in your personal discard pile.
A player can never have fewer than two destinies in hand after a 
discard. Ignore any excess discards.
Both players start with the same destinies in hand. An important part 
of the game is deducing which destinies your co-player has kept or 
discarded. This helps you understand where your partner might be 
heading in the relationship. 
At the end of the game, at the finale, you will have to choose a single 
final destiny; this is the destiny you will try to fulfill in this story.
Your final destiny also tells you whether you stay in the relationship or 
break up. In some Love Stories, there won’t be destinies that allow you 
to break up.
Initially, all destinies you have are considered ‘in hand’ (unless told 
differently in the synopsis). Throughout the game, some effects will 
make you move destinies from your hand to your personal discard 
pile, and from the personal discard pile to your hand.
Effects on Destinies
Swap In: If the mentioned destiny is in your personal discard pile, 
you add it to your hand from your personal discard pile, and discard 
another destiny from your hand.
Swap Out: If the mentioned destiny is in your hand, you must 
discard it and choose another destiny from your personal discard 
pile to add to your hand.
Discard: Place the destiny in your personal discard pile. This will 
only take effect if the destiny is in your hand. Remember that you 
can only discard a destiny if you are left with at least two in hand 
after you discard.
Retrieve: Pick up a destiny from your personal discard pile. 
Ignore if you have that particular destiny in hand already.
If there are no destinies in your personal discard pile, you cannot 
swap in or swap out.
Ignore effects that refer to destinies that aren’t included in the 
Love Story you play.
At the end of the game, when you’ve come to the finale, you select 
your final destiny, and score additional  based on your secrets and 
your trait goals.
Follow the instructions on the finale card. There will be slight variations 
from Love Story to Love Story. 
The key pieces of information that might affect game play are also 
available in the synopsis. In this way you don’t need to spoil the finale 
before your first play-through.
You’ll now see if you have fulfilled your characters’ destinies and learn 
whether the relationship between the characters ends with a happily 
ever after.
However the story ended, we hope you had a good time and had 
some memorable tales to tell. 
A good way to round off a play session is to retell the story you 
participated in and discuss what happened. This will make the 
memories of your shared experience even more vivid and meaningful.

My aim with the game was to create something that 
breaks away from how games are designed today. 
Almost all games are about conflict, competition or 
optimization (either between the players or between 
the players and the system). 
My vision was to create mechanics that somehow 
simulate a completely different sphere of human 
experience, namely interpersonal relationships and 
the building of trust.
This is, of course, part of other games as well but 
always as a means towards winning a conflict or 
optimizing something, not as a goal in itself.
The project started more than three years ago when 
I got frustrated about how difficult it was to find a 
game my wife could enjoy playing with me. I’m a geek, 
and she is the very incarnation of a romantic.
When we watch movies together, we can often find 
something that thematically suits us both. But this was 
almost impossible in board games. There was (and 
still is) no section for ‘Romance’ (or just ‘Drama’) in 
any board game shop or board game database.
This got me thinking, and I decided to create a game 
we could play (and perhaps others might enjoy).
I’m an experienced innovator (this is my day job), 
so I used all the methods I know of (user research, 
translation of scientific/academic insights into 
concrete mechanisms, prototyping, testing, lots of 
feedback and iterations, etc.) to create this game.
I read more than 2000 pages about love and romantic 
comedies to find ways to gamify romance. I’ve directly 
observed more than 300 hours of playtesting to learn 
how I could fine-tune the experience of trust, under-
standing and misunderstanding provided by the game. 
Finally I’ve, of course, played the game countless times 
myself. I’m relieved that I still find the game fun and 
surprising.
All this effort was in order to achieve the delicate 
balance between mechanics and theme that is 
essential for this game. 
I haven’t done this alone, since my wife played a big 
role in this as well. She has been involved right from 
the beginning and has been an amazing resource to 
learn from for a geek like me. On a side note, we also 
work together in our shared innovation and design 
company – so we are used to doing projects together.
She has helped envision the beautiful visual style of the 
game and has helped me fine-tune almost all content. 
As the game slowly materialized, my ambitions 
evolved. Initially it was a game for my wife and me. 
Then Fastaval, a large Danish gaming convention, 
was added to the purported audience. People at the 
con liked the game very much, even though it was 
still an unpolished prototype.
Later, after even more months of work and rework, 
the game was presented at Spiel 2015 in Essen. 
The reception at the world’s largest board gaming fair 
was amazing. Several influential game designers said 
that this should be obligatory material for anyone who 
wants to learn about new ways of designing. Wow! 
This fueled my ambitions to a completely new level.
Since then the game was successfully launched on 
Kickstarter. The campaign was a great and also some-
what terrifying experience for a textual introvert like 
me (I love to speak with people but have difficulty 
writing anything for a public audience… and 
Kickstarter is all about writing for a public audience).
We added a lot of material to the game as a result 
of Kickstarter stretch goals, and we added much more 
time for development as a result of the added material. 
We also got a lot of amazing support from the 
community of backers, support that I had never 
dared even dream of.
I’m thankful to all who have made this game possible. 
Thankful to my muse, my love, my friend, my 
expander-of-my-universe, my wife, Lotte. I’m thankful 
to all backers who financed a large part of the initial 
print run, to Jacob E. who came and helped me when 
I was most in need, to Mike, who took the visual 
universe to a new level, to the wonderful and diverse 
playtesters, who helped refine the game, to the 
proofers and writers who helped polish the language, 
and of course to you, for wanting to try it out. 
Now it’s time to set my little ‘baby’ free.
Luckily for the little ‘baby’ it has been discovered by a 
huge mass market retailer, that wants to do more with 
board games. They sensed the same gap in the market 
as we did and found Fog of Love a perfect match. 
They’ll do an exclusive launch of our game in their 
stores. If all goes well, it might be the beginning of 
a new amazing adventure.
Whatever happens from now on, I still strongly believe 
that the world needs more games that cater to our 
inner romantic to give us some more power to balance 
out our inner warlords and inner bureaucrats. I hope 
this game can contribute to such a change.
Love,
Jacob Jaskov
17 July 2017
Game design: Jacob Jaskov.
Game development: Jacob Jaskov, Jacob Engelbrecht.
Visual concept: Mike Højgaard/neue.pink (art direction, graphic design 
& guidance), Jeppe Norsker (technical infrastructure), 
Lotte M. Klixbüll Jaskov (initial vision). 
 
Photography: Anders Bøggild.
Models: Sarah Cederstrand, Jacob Engelbrecht, Alvilde Holm, Morten 
Grøftehauge, Filip Jakobsen, Jacob Jaskov, Lotte Margrethe Klixbüll Jaskov, 
Morten Jæger, Dajo Vande Putte, Gertrud Høgh Rasmussen, 
Lars Vilhelmsen, Michaela Wallachova, Lucia Žitňanská, Marek Zitnansky.
Kickstarter support: Jacob Engelbrecht, Emil Larsen.
Playtesters and givers of feedback: Morten Andersen, Jette Wiborg- 
Andersen, Scott Arnone, Richard Austen, Morten Barklund, Christian 
Ertmann-Christiansen, Nilas Bay-Foged, Signe Waldorff Bonde, Peter 
Brodersen, Joachim Anastatios Christiansen, Jeppe Christoffersen, 
Christie Irene Madvig Czarny, Pawel Czarny, Jacob Engelbrecht, 
María Ge Erre, Raluca Alexandra Fetic, Martin Hedlund Fink, James Finkel, 
Troels Rohde Flanagan, Jakob Gadmar, Edgar Gallego, Jon Gilmour, 
Jakob Givskud, Jacob Gunness, Lovis Hakala, Richard Ham, 
Britt Rosendahl Hansen, Jasmin Hardt, Benny Heidelbach, Elias Helfer, 
Lotte Margrethe Klixbüll Jaskov, June Thea Bronnée Jensen, 
Otto Plantener Jensen, Andreas Josefsson, Bendegúz Juhúsz, Mikkel 
Jurs, Morten Jæger, Filip Kevély, Viktor Konakovsky, Keghani Kouzoujian, 
Sylvester Langvad, Kasper Lapp, Kailie Leggett, Signe Liliendahl, 
Sidsel Lundahl, Peter K. Lunn, Maja Løvbakke, Kyle Maddex, Aron Marossy, 
Craig Martin, Tony Mastrangeli, Jacob Merrild, Brett Alan Miller, 
Max Møller, Pia Møller, Joachim Rishworth-Norgaard, Jeppe Norsker, 
Ádám Novák, Oliver Nøglebæk, Asbjørn Olsen, Olivér Ősz, Cecile Othon, 
Ole Palnatoke, Erik Rodrigues Pedersen, Alex Pescott, Jimmy Petersen, 
Teresa Pons, Dajo Vande Putte, Ida Rask, Josephine Robert, 
Linnea Sahlgaard, Sia Sophia Schjerning, Marie Louise Broegaard 
Schlanbusch, Johannes Sjolte, Kasper Svendsen, Morten Snak, Ole Steiness, 
Bo Thomasen, Uffe Thorsen, Jimmi Thygesen, Anja Thye, Connie Traxl, 
Monica Hjort Traxl, Siriluck Vanichkitrungruang, Nis Videbæk, David 
Vindtorp, Vivien, Ryan Vogel, Morten Weilbach, Daniel Windfeld, 
Kirsten Østerskov, plus hundreds of players at Fastaval 2015, Fastaval 2016, 
Spiel 2015 and Spiel 2016.
Proofing and language support: Scott Arnone, Tobias Demediuk 
Bindslet, Bastian Borup, Brad Choate, Theo Clarke, Kenneth Ferguson, 
Edgar Gallego, Joshua Gaylord, Jon Gilmour, Benny Heidelbach, 
Jonas Bruun Jacobsen, Otto Plantener Jensen, Kevin John, 
Tonya John, Craig Johnson, Allan Kirkeby, Christian Kudahl, 
Hans Lauring, Greg Loring-Albright, Rachael Mortimer Proofreading 
Services, Max Møller, Asbjørn Olsen, Andrew Owen, Vilhelmine Ozolina, 
Brett Patching, Ole Palnatoke, Morten Schnack, James Sendy, 
Monica Hjort Traxl, Steven Willmott.
Manufactured by: Shanghai Whatz Games Co.,Ltd.
Special thanks: Lynn Bailey, Sebastian Hammer, Johnson Thurston.
Eternal gratitude and love: Lotte Margrethe Klixbüll Jaskov.
Copyright © 2017 Hush Hush Projects ApS
All rights reserved.
Version 1.00 – 17 July 2017.
Designed with love and perseverance.
Made in China.
Contact info:
Hush Hush Projects ApS
Ørestads Boulevard 61F, 7.th
2300 Copenhagen S
Denmark
www.hushhushprojects.com
email: jacob.jaskov@hushhushprojects.com
Follow the game on:
www.fogoflove.com
facebook.com/fogoflove
twitter.com/FogOfLoveGame
Designer’s Thoughts
Credits
If the cards have been unwrapped and mixed, but 
you want to learn the game, you need to reestablish 
the tutorial. It’s easy, but takes a few minutes.
You need to find all the cards in the game with an * 
(an asterisk) after their ID number. These 119 cards 
are included in the tutorial:
30	 Tutorial cards (27 large and 3 small cards)
Character cards
Cards from Sunday Morning Date 
	
(1 synopsis, 3 chapters, 1 the finale)
2 	 Player aids
37 	 scenes (12 sweet, 10 serious, 15 drama)
destinies
16 	 traits
occupations
10 	 features
Sort the large and small cards from lowest to 
highest number. The cards with the lowest number 
should be on top. All cards should be face down 
(ignore this for cards with text on both sides).
Then divide the pile of large cards into 3 decks. 
The back of the Tutorial cards will tell you where 
they split. #1 is on top of sweet, #35 is on top of 
serious and #61 is on top of drama.
Similarly divide the small cards into 3 decks. #82 
is on top of traits, #99 is on top of occupations 
and #109 is on top of features. 
Now you’re done. Remember that the tutorial 
begins on the back of this rulebook.
Reestablishing the Tutorial 

a
b
c
d
e
f
WELCOME TO 
Fog of Love
THE BOARD
The first time you play Fog of Love you can play 
‘out of the box’– learning how to play while you play. 
It is therefore important that you do not shuffle any 
cards before or during your first play-through! 
This tutorial will take between 90 and 120 minutes. 
Read the setup instructions on this page, and follow 
the instructions on the numbered cards and you 
will soon be playing. 
Each Tutorial card has a number on its back letting 
you know when to pick it up – it is that simple to 
get started! Enjoy your first game of Fog of Love.
READ THIS FIRST! 
	
Place the game board between you 
(see illustration).
Without shuffling, unwrap and place on 
the game board, three decks of scenes 
on their three spots, sweet on sweet (a), 
serious on serious (b) and drama on 
drama (c). Do the same with the traits, 
occupation, and feature decks (d, e, f).
The name of the deck is printed on 
the first card of each deck.
Take the card holders (g), the choice 
tokens (h) and the token boxes with 
tokens in your character’s color (i). 
Place them as in the example setup. 
 
The Decks 
The sweet deck contains romantic and 
sweet experiences. 
 
 
The serious deck contains important 
events that happen in life.
The drama deck contains dramatic 
situations, secrets and scenes of 
personal change.
The custom spot is only used 
in later Love Stories.
We will get back to how the cards 
in the decks work soon. For now, 
just leave them setup as instructed. 
 
The right mindset 
The game involves a little role playing. 
To help you with that some cards will ask 
you to tell something. In those cases, be as 
creative as you feel like. If you feel that it is 
hard to come up with something, just skip it. 
 
 
Tutorial cards 
When you play your first game, 
a series of Tutorial cards will introduce 
you to the rules gradually.
Whenever you reveal a Tutorial card, 
pick it up and read it (as soon as you 
are done playing or reading the 
previous card).
It is important that you read the whole 
card when reading a Tutorial card.
Keep the Tutorial cards next to the 
play area for easy reference. 
 
•	 This tutorial is about learning the 
game, so don’t think much about 
end game success. Just try to have 
fun while you are playing. 
 
 
 
Tutorial cards have 3 icons on them 
	
This icon indicates that the text 	
	
block consists of rules without 
	
any need for action on your part. 
	
This icon indicates that the text 	
	
block consists of actions you will 	
	need to take. When encountering these 
text blocks, perform each bullet point one 
after the other, finishing all instructions 
on one before beginning on the next. 
	
This icon indicates that the 
	
text in the text block consists 
of actions related to the tutorial itself. 
They will always tell you how to proceed 
with the tutorial. 
 
 
 
 
Your first tutorial
The player who last blew a kiss is 
the first player. 
The first player should pick up and 
read out loud Tutorial card 
on top of the sweet deck. 
Have fun!
In Fog of Love you will play as 
two characters and take them 
through a stormy romance. You 
are not playing as yourselves but 
as a fictional couple.
You will play scenes from your 
relationship and decide how to 
react to those situations.
At the end of the game you will 
discover how your relationship 
evolves – or ends.
It is possible for both of you to 
be happy in the relationship or 
for the relationship to falter. 
But it is also very possible that one 
will be happy in the relationship 
while the other won’t.
In this particular Love Story you 
just met and are now going on 
your first date.