Don’t cook 
tonight, play 
Splotter’s 
delight
Splotter
RULES

“Lemonade? Th ey want lemonade? What is the world coming to? 
I want commercials for burgers on all channels, every 15 minutes. We 
are the Home of the Original Burger, not a hippie health haven. And 
place a billboard next to that new house on the corner. I want them 
craving beer every second they sit in their posh new garden.” Th e new 
management trainee trembles in front of the CEO and tries to politely 
point out that... “How do you mean, we don’t have enough staff ? Th e 
HR director reports to you. Hire more people! Train them! But what-
ever you do, don’t pay them any real wages. I did not go into business 
to become poor. And fi re that discount manager, she is only costing me 
money. From now on, we’ll sell gourmet burgers. Same crap, double the 
price. Get my marketing director in here!”
Food Chain Magnate is a heavy strategy game about building a fast 
food chain. Th e focus is on building your company using a card-driven 
(human) resource management system. Players compete on a variable 
city map through purchasing, marketing and sales, and on a job market 
for key staff members. Th e game can be played by 2-5 serious gamers 
in 2-4 hours.
Game design: Jeroen Doumen, Joris Wiersinga
Graphic design: Ynze Moedt, Iris de Haan
Rule translations: Birgit Hugk, Torsten Hintz
Published by: Splotter Spellen, Th e Netherlands, info@splotter.nl, 
http://www.splotter.nl
Playtesting by: Dan Blum, Eric Brosius, Ed Bryan, Nora Ghaoui, 
James Hayward, Gil Hova, Trisha Huang, Wei-Hwa Huang, Joe Huber, 
Larry Levy, Ian Mackey, Roel van Meerendonk, Mirjam Molenkamp, 
Douwe Mulder, Gerard Mulder, Kent Neumann, Steff an O’Sullivan, 
Joe Rushanan, Alan Stern, Tucker Taylor, Bartel van der Veek, Henriet-
te Verburg, Roel Vinkenvleugel, Stefan Wegner, Arthur Zonnenberg. 
Apologies if you are not on the list, or if we spelled your name wrong! 
Special thanks to Ragnar Krempel and Bianca van Duijl who playtested 
the game multiple times a day on many, many Sundays for almost three 
years. Without them, this game would not exist.
© Splotter Spellen BV, Woerden, 2015. 3rd printing with some modi-
fi cations.
COLOFON
food chain
magnate

Turn Order 
Track
 
1 game box
1 rulebook
5 German player menus
5 English player menus
1 turn order track
20 map tiles
8 house tiles
8 garden tiles
16 marketing tiles: 6 billboards, 4 mailboxes, 3 airplanes and 3 radios
16 numbered “busy” chips
3 restaurants for each player
1 turn order marker for each player

Concepts
Employee cards: these cards depict a person. Th e text under the picture 
describes what that person can do in the company. Cards with a in 
the top left can be hired by recruiters. Cards that show a 
 require 
a salary. Cards that can be trained show future career options in the 
bottom left . Some cards instead show a 
 in the bottom left . Th ese are 
top positions. Each player may only own one of that particular card. On 
the top right, some cards show “range”, counted by road or zeppelin. 
Employee cards can be managers, marketeers, kitchen staff , and many 
other things.
Open slot: a position in the company structure where an employee 
card could have been played.
Range: the number of times you cross onto a diff erent tile. Range is 
normally tracked following a road, unless the card has a zeppelin sym-
bol 
.
Restaurant: Each player has three restaurants available. Each restau-
rant is 2x2 squares big. One of these squares is marked as its entrance 
by the doors in the corner. If you need to count range from a restaurant, 
always start counting from its entrance.
Map tile: a map element that can be picked up. It consists of 5x5 squares. 
Initially, a square can contain a road, drinks, part of a house, or empty space.
Food and drinks: Th e wooden pieces symbolize food (burgers and piz-
zas) and drinks (soft drinks, lemonade, and beer). Placed on a house, 
they show demand. Placed on a marketing campaign, they show what 
is being advertised and for how long. In the hands of a player, they re-
present their stock. Drinks are also printed on the map. Th ese indicate 
locations where buyers can get these type of drinks.
Overview
Each player starts as a single entrepreneur and builds up a fast food 
chain. Th ey do this by hiring and training staff , represented by cards; 
and by running the operations of their company, which is done on a 
variable board. Th e game continues until the bank runs out of money 
(twice). Th e richest player then wins.
Th e game is played in phases. Some phases are played simultaneously; 
others use a turn order. 
Introducing 
the game
PIZZA CHEF
Produce 8 pizzas
DISCOUNT 
Price - $3
Place airplane or lower, 
max duration 4
brand director
+ $5 for every burger sold
$15 discount on salaries
train 
someone
Price -$1
lower prices
+$100
+$200
RESERVE
+$300
RESERVE
YOU
CEO
222 employee cards
84 milestone cards
18 bank reserve cards
6 CEO cards
Bills of paper money
40 burgers (wood)
40 pizzas (wood)
40 lemonade (wood)
40 beers (wood)
40 soft drinks (wood)

Cards setup 
Lay out the employee and milestone cards according to the 
image to the right.
If you lay out the cards as pictured, you will have an overview of 
upgrade paths and you can easily see which cards are in danger 
of running out.
For each employee card marked with 
, remove a number of 
cards so that you end up with the following number:
First airplane 
campaign
Count +2 open slots 
when determining 
order of play
First to train 
someone
$15 discount on 
salaries
burger sold
produced
+1 burger cook
First drink 
drink sold
First pizza 
pizza sold
First pizza 
produced
+1 pizza cook
First billboard 
placed
No salaries for 
marketeers;
Eternal marketing
First to hire 3 
people in 1 turn
+ 2 Management 
Trainees
First errand 
boy played
All buyers get + 1 
drink from each 
source
First radio 
campaign
Your radios market 
2 goods per turn 
instead of 1
First cart 
operator played
Buyers get range +1
lower prices
Price -$1
First to throw 
away drink/food
Get a freezer that 
stores 10 items 
(drink or food)
First to have $100
Your CEO counts as 
CFO (+50% to cash 
earned) May not 
have a CFO.
First to have $20 
May see bank 
reserve cards
First waitress 
played
Each waitress +$2
First to pay $20 or 
more in salaries
May use multiple 
trainers on the 
same person
Map setup
Create a map by randomly selecting map tiles. Rotate 
each tile randomly before placing it in a grid. Th e num-
ber of map tiles used depends on the number of players, 
as shown in the table above and the image to the right.
Setting up
2 players
4 players
3 players
5 players
players
 employee 
cards used
Billboards 
removed
Map size
#12, #15, #16
3x3
#15, #16
3x4
#16
4x4
None
5x4
Put the billboards listed in the above table back in the box.

WAITRESS
PRICING 
new business 
developer
LUXURIES
JUNIOR 
Get $3 cash.
Win ties against 
restaurant with 
fewer waitresses
Price -$1
or $5 less salary
TRAINER
Train 1 person
COACH
2 training slots. 
May train the same 
person two steps
TRUCK
DRIVER
Get 3 drinks from 
each source on route
Place airplane or 
lower, max duration 4
KITCHEN
Produce 1 burger 
or 1 pizza
cart
OPERATOR
Get 2 drinks from 
each source on route
Zeppelin
pilot
Get 2 drinks from 
each source on route, 
ignore roads
CAMPAIGN 
director
Place mailbox or 
lower, max duration 3
Place radio or 
lower, max duration 5
burger Cook
Produce 3 burgers
burger CHEF
Produce 8 burgers
PIZZA Cook
Produce 3 pizzas
PIZZA CHEF
Produce 8 pizzas
Place house 
or garden
Price +$10
LOCAL 
Regional 
Manager
DISCOUNT 
 VICE 
PRESIDENT
SENIOR 
EXECUTIVE 
Place new restaurant, 
“COMING SOON”.
Drive-in available
Place or move 
restaurant, opens 
immediately. 
Drive-in available
Price - $3
Guru
3 training slots. 
May train the same 
person up to 
three steps
2x:
HR DIRECTOR
or $5 less salary
4x:
CFO
Add +50% to cash 
earned this round
ERRAND 
BOY
Get 1 drink of 
any type
MANAGEMENT 
MARKETING 
Place billboard, 
max duration 2

Filling the bank
Place $50 x the number of players into the bank pool. Use a practical 
set of (small) bills. Put the rest of the money back into the box for now. 
Players do not get any money at the start of the game.
Player markers
Each player chooses one of the restaurant chains available and receives 
a CEO card, 3 restaurants and a set of 3 bank reserve cards.
Initial order of play
Collect the turn order markers of the chosen restaurant chains and 
shuﬄ e them. Randomly take out the turn order markers and place 
them on the turn order track in the order in which they were drawn.
Placing the first restaurants
Each player has to place one starting restaurant. 
Start with the player who is last on the turn order, and end with the 
player who is fi rst. Each player may either place a restaurant, or pass. If 
anyone passed, a second round is executed in turn order. Each player 
who has not yet placed a restaurant must now place it. Players who 
have already placed a restaurant do not participate in the second round.
Th ere are a few limitations on the initial placement of restaurants:
 
• Restaurants must be placed fully on empty squares that do not 
contain any other restaurants, roads, drinks, or houses.
 
• Restaurants must be placed so that their entrance borders on a 
square with a road.
 
• Restaurants may not be placed in such a way that their entrance 
is on the same tile as the entrance of an existing restaurant.
Setting goals
Each player now chooses one of their bank reserve cards. Th e chosen 
reserve cards are placed face down next to the bank. Th e other reserve 
cards are discarded unseen. Th ey will not be used for now.
Th e chosen bank reserve cards collectively indicate how much money 
will be added to the bank once it runs out of money. Th e higher the 
value of the cards, the longer the game will last. At the start of the game, 
players will not know exactly how long the game will take, which makes 
balancing short and long term strategies more challenging.
Phase by 
phase
Phase 1: Restructuring
Each player simultaneously chooses which of their employees to use 
this turn. Th ese cards are placed face down on the table. All other cards 
are placed face down in a separate pile. Aft er all players have chosen 
their cards, they simultaneously open the pile of cards to be used this 
turn. Th ese employees are said to be “at work”. Th e rest of the cards 
cannot be used this turn, although they can be trained, and you will 
need to pay their salary if they are not fi red. Th ese cards are said to be 
“on the beach”.
During all phases except this one, every player can at any time request 
to see the cards of another player. Th is includes both the cards at work 
and those cards ‘on the beach’.
In the fi rst turn, the CEO will be the only card played. Th e CEO is 
always at work. 
In all subsequent turns, aft er opening the pile, the cards at work must 
be placed into a company structure. Th e cards are placed in a pyramid. 
Each card is placed under the person he/she is reporting to. Th e top of 
the pyramid is the CEO, who obviously reports to nobody. 
Th e company structure always contains the CEO. Th e CEO can have 
up to three cards reporting to him. Th is is indicated by the 3 slots (rec-
tangles) on the CEO card. Th e cards reporting to the CEO can be either 
normal staff or managers (black cards only). Each manager can have 
between 2-10 people reporting to him, as indicated by the number of 
slots on the card. Cards reporting to a manager can only be normal 
employees, not other managers. 
If a player has inadvertently placed more cards than can fi t into the 
company structure, all cards except the CEO are placed on the beach 
and the player has to play his turn with only the CEO.
Aft er the bank reserve cards have been opened, CEOs may gain or lose 
a slot. Th e extra slot can be used for normal staff or managers. You can 
use a reserve card to indicate the new number of CEO slots.
Phase 2: Order of business
In this phase, players choose their position on the turn order track. Th e 
player with the most open slots in his company structure may choose 
fi rst, followed by the player with the second largest number of open 
slots, etc. Open slots are slots on a CEO or manager that have not been 
used for an employee card. If a player has the “First airplane campaign” 
milestone, he counts two extra open slots.
If two or more players have the same number of open slots, the one who 
was ahead in turn order in the previous turn chooses fi rst.
Players choose their position in the turn order by placing the turn 
order marker on an available spot on the turn order track. Note that 

MANAGEMENT 
MARKETING 
Place billboard, 
max duration 2
ERRAND 
BOY
Get 1 drink of 
any type
CEO
Example: a fledgling company structure.
there are only as many spots on the chart as there are players participa-
ting. For example, with 3 players, you cannot choose the 4th position.
Phase 3: Working 9:00–5:00
In this phase, all players take turns in turn order. Each player may 
perform one action for each card he has at work. The actions of the 
pricing manager, discount manager, luxury manager, CFO, recruiting 
manager, HR director and waitress are mandatory; the actions of all 
other employees are optional. A player completes all of his actions be-
fore the next player gets his turn. The available actions are indicated 
on the cards.
Actions have to be performed in the order listed here; The position of a 
card in the organizational chart has no influence.
Recruit
Each company always gets one free recruitment action performed by 
the CEO. You can hire additional employees by having recruitment 
cards in your company structure. For each recruitment action availa-
ble, you may hire one additional employee.
You may only hire people at entry positions (indicated by in the top 
left corner of the card). Take the card(s) you want and add them to 
your pile of cards that are on the beach. If a certain deck runs out of 
cards, you may no longer hire that type of employee until cards become 
available again. However, you may hire such a card if you immediately 
train it to a higher level in the training sub-phase of this turn (so you 
don’t actually have to take the card).
Recruitment actions are available on the recruiting girl card (1x), the 
recruiting manager (2x) and the HR director (4x). Note that unused 
recruitment actions on the recruiting manager and HR director will 
give a salary discount in phase 5.
Train
For each training action in your company structure you may train one 
person one step. You may only train employee cards that are on the 
beach, including employees you just hired. Employees that are current-
ly at work in your company structure and busy marketeers cannot be 
trained. Marketeers, kitchen staff and buyers each have their own up-
grade track. All other (non-entry) employees are trained directly from 
managers (black cards).
Most cards list a number of training options on the bottom of the card. 
For example, the kitchen trainee can be trained into a burger cook or 
a pizza cook. Cards that have no training options listed cannot be 
trained.
Return the card you want to train to the main stock of cards and replace 
it with the card you want to train it to. 
In general, you may not train an employee you have just trained any 
further in the same turn. Exceptions are:
	
• A coach may train the same card two steps ;
	
• A guru may train the same card up to three steps; 
	
• If you have the “First to pay $20 in salaries” milestone, you 
may use multiple trainers, coaches and gurus to train the same 
card.
A coach (or guru) may alternatively divide their attention over multiple 
employees, for example training each one step.
You cannot train to a position if the final card is not available in the 
stock. However, if you train multiple steps or hire and immediately 
train a person, the intermediate cards do not have to be available. 
You may only have one copy of each card marked with 
. 

Initiate marketing campaigns
For each marketeer in your company structure, you may place a mar-
keting campaign on the board. Depending on the type of marketeer, 
you may place either a billboard, a mailbox, an airplane or a radio cam-
paign. Th e marketeer also indicates a certain specifi c range and maxi-
mum duration. Aft er you place the campaign, you have to choose what 
you want to advertise.
Type of campaign: Marketing trainees may place only a billboard; 
Campaign managers may place a mailbox or billboard; brand managers 
may place an airplane, mailbox or billboard; and a brand director may 
place any type of campaign.
Range: Each marketeer has a certain range. For example, the marke-
ting trainee has a range of 2. Th is means he can place billboards on his 
own tile (0), an adjacent tile (1) or a tile two steps away. All connecti-
ons must be by road and start at a restaurant entrance. You can freely 
choose which of your restaurants the marketeer starts counting range 
from.
Brand managers and directors are not limited by range. Th ey can place 
campaigns on areas that they cannot reach by road, but when they place 
a billboard, mailbox, or radio, it still has to be placed adjacent to a road.
Duration: Th e text on the marketeer card states the maximum duration 
of a campaign that the marketeer can initiate. Th e minimum duration of 
a campaign is 1 turn. For example, a marketing trainee has a maximum 
duration of 2, so he can initiate a campaign that runs for 1 or 2 turns. 
Marketing campaigns can never be ended prematurely.
Placing the campaign: Billboards, mailboxes and radios must be 
placed on empty squares on the board. Th ey must connect to the road 
used to reach the tile. If a marketing campaign spans multiple tiles, 
only one of the squares adjacent to a road needs to be in range of the 
marketeer. Th e marketing tile itself has to be in range, not just the road 
used to get there.
Airplanes must be placed on the side of the board. Airplanes do not have 
to be connected to a road and are not aff ected by range. Th e available 
airplanes have a size of 1, 3 or 5 squares and must always be placed so 
that they fl y over the corresponding number of rows or columns on the 
board—it is not allowed to place an airplane so that it would fl y outside 
of the board. 
It is allowed to place a marketing campaign in a location where it will 
not reach any houses.
Determine what to advertise: A campaign can advertise either pizza, 
burgers, or one type of drink. To indicate this, place wooden pieces of 
the advertised type on the campaign as advertising markers. Th e num-
ber of pieces should correspond to the duration of the campaign.
Marketeer will be busy: Aft er placing the campaign, put the marke-
teer card aside and place a “busy” chip on the card. Th e number on 
the “busy” chip should correspond to that on the marketing campaign. 
Th is indicates the marketeer card will be unavailable until the marke-
ting campaign ends. Th e marketeer will not take up a slot in your orga-
nizational structure when busy.
 
If a player has the “First billboard placed” milestone, marketing cam-
paigns placed by that player will not end. To indicate this, place the 
campaign tile on its eternal side on the board with a single wooden pie-
ce on it. Th e corresponding marketeer card will be unavailable for the 
rest of the game. It will not be returned to the stock or the player’s hand.
Xango Blues Bar has played two marketing trainees in its structure this 
turn. It can place both billboards 11 and 14, as shown in the picture abo-
ve. Th e range to play billboard 11 is 0, as it is on the same tile as the 
restaurant. Th e range to play billboard 14 is 2 (the maximum for the 
marketing trainee), as you have to cross into an adjacent tile twice.
Even though it is not yet possible for Xango Blues Bar to deliver to house 
15, placing billboard 14 may still make sense: by adding a garden to house 
15, it will become accessible by road.

Get food & drinks
If you have any kitchen staff and/or buyers in your structure, you may 
take food and drinks from the general stock following the instructions on 
the card. Earned food and drinks are kept in front of the player and are 
available to all restaurants in the player’s chain when needed.
Kitchen trainee: take one burger or pizza.
Errand boy: take one drink (softdrink, beer, or lemonade) of your choice.
Burger cook and/or chef: take the number of burgers as written on the card.
Pizza cook and/or chef: take the number of pizzas as written on the card.
Cart operator: starting from one of your restaurant entrances, trace a 
route of range 2 over roads. Including the tile of your restaurant, the rou-
te will thus cover up to three tiles. Take 2 drinks from the stock for each 
drink symbol you pass by on either side of the road. Note that you have 
to traverse the road directly (orthogonally) adjacent to the drink symbol. 
If there are multiple drink symbols on the same tile, it is sometimes pos-
sible to pass more than one of them. However, it is not allowed to make 
U-turns in order to do so. There is no need for the cart operator to return 
to one of your restaurants..
Truck driver: Same as cart operator, but the truck has a range of 3, and 
takes 3 drinks per symbol you pass by.
Zeppelin pilot: Starting from your restaurant entrance, trace a route of 
range 4, ignoring roads. Including the tile of your restaurant, the route 
will cover up to five tiles. You may not cover the same tile twice. Collect 
2 drinks from stock for each drink symbol on the tiles you fly over. If 
there are multiple drink symbols on a tile, you may collect drinks for 
all of them.
If a player has the “First Errand Boy Played” milestone, each source 
will provide an extra drink. Errand boys will also bring in two drinks of 
the same type, including the errand boy just played.
If a player has the “First Cart Operator Played” milestone, his cart 
operators, truck drivers and zeppelin pilots have one additional range.
Place new houses and gardens
If your structure contains a new business developer, you may place a 
new house on the map, or add a garden to an existing house.
Placing a new house: A new house may be placed in any empty area 
on the map, provided the house is connected to at least one road. There 
are no range limitations. You may freely choose which house to place.
Placing a new garden: A new garden must be placed so that it connects 
to a house printed on a map tile. It has to connect over 2 squares, so that 
the final house and garden forms a 2x3 rectangle. Gardens may only be 
placed on empty squares. Each house may only get one garden. Turn 
the garden so that it is obvious which house it belongs to. Houses that 
have been placed on the board by a new business developer automati-
cally come with a garden, and may not get another one.
Place or move restaurants
If you have a local manager or a regional manager in your structure, 
you may place a new restaurant or move an existing one. A restaurant 
must be placed fully on empty squares that do not contain any other 
map elements. It must be also be placed so that its entrance is adjacent 
to a road. However, unlike during the initial placement, a restaurant 
may be placed in such a way that its entrance is on the same tile as the 
entrance of another restaurant.
Local manager: A local manager may place a new restaurant within 
a range of 3 tiles, travelled by road, from one of the chain’s existing 
restaurants. The new restaurant must be placed with the printed en-
trance connecting to a road. This does not have to be the road used to 
determine the range. The new restaurant is placed with the “COMING 
SOON” side up. It will only open at the end of the turn. Note that as 
long as the local manager is active, restaurants of that chain have a dri-
ve-in, and are considered to have entrances in each corner.
Regional manager: A regional manager may place a restaurant any-
where on the board, provided the entrance connects to a road. He may 
also pick up one of his restaurants already on the board and place it 
somewhere else and/or rotate it. Restaurants that have been placed 
or moved by a regional manager are active immediately: there is no 
“COMING SOON” waiting period. Note that as long as the regional 
manager is active, restaurants of that chain have a drive-in, and are 
considered to have entrances in each corner. 

Phase 4: Dinnertime
It’s evening, and the inhabitants go out to get some food. This happens 
in the order of the numbers printed on the houses, starting with the 
lowest number on the board. Players make no decisions in this phase; 
the inhabitants of the houses will determine where to eat based on the 
rules given in this section.
To determine if and where a house will eat, follow these steps:
	
• If no demand counters have been placed on the house, its 
inhabitants will not go out to eat. 
	
• If there are demand counters, check if there is a chain with a 
restaurant connected to the house by road which can deliver all 
of the food and drinks the inhabitants want. For example, if the 
house contains demand for 2 burgers and a beer, there needs to 
be a chain that can provide 2 burgers and a beer—if the chain has 
only burgers, or not enough burgers, the inhabitants will search 
for a better place or decide not to go out. There are no range res-
trictions, but there must be a road connection between the house 
and the restaurant. You may start at any road orthogonally adja-
cent to the house or the garden. If there is no road connection, the 
inhabitants will stay at home. If there is one chain that fulfills the 
requirements, the inhabitants will eat there.
	
• If there are multiple chains that can provide the full menu, and 
that have a restaurant connected by road to the house, competi-
tion ensues. The inhabitants will go to the restaurant by evalua-
ting the price and the distance. 
	
• The standard unit price of each good is $10. This unit price 
will be different if the chain has one or more price managers 
(-$1), discount managers (-$3), or a luxury manager (+$10) in 
its structure. The ‘First to lower prices’ milestone permanent-
ly lowers the unit price of that chain by $1. Note that bonuses 
(CFO, “First burger marketed”, etc.) do not alter the unit price. 
For example, a chain with 2 active price managers and an active 
discount manager will charge a unit price of $5. 
	
• To determine the distance, determine the range from the house 
to the closest restaurant of each of the chains. You must follow 
the road and end up at an entrance of the restaurant. Each tile 
border you cross counts as one step. So, a house on the same 
tile as an restaurant entrance will be at distance 0 if the two are 
connected by a road on the same tile.
	
• Add up the unit price and the distance. Note that the number of 
demand tokens does not matter for this calculation. The inha-
bitants will eat at the restaurant which has the lowest result. So, 
they may walk one step further to save $1 per item, 2 steps to 
save $2, etc. 
	
• If two chains have the same (unit price + distance), inhabitants 
will go to the restaurant with the most waitresses in its structure.
	
• If both chains also have the same number of waitresses in their 
structure, inhabitants will go to the chain that is earlier in the 
turn order.
	
The chain which is chosen by the inhabitants must serve the food 
and drinks. Discard the demand counters from the house and the 
identical markers from the chain’s stock. The chain gets paid for 
each item it sells. Specifically, they get the unit price + bonuses 
from milestones for each item sold.
	
If the house has a garden, the chain receives double the unit price 
for each item. Note that the bonuses are not doubled, so the final 
income is (2 x unit price) + bonuses.
	
As the order of the houses depends on the house numbers, it is 
quite possible that a chain runs out of food to serve houses later 
in the order. These will then search for food elsewhere. In some 
cases, this may lead to some of the inhabitants travelling very long 
distances, or not finding food at all.
	
Example: a player sells 1 burger and 2 beer to a house with a gar-
den. He has the “First burger marketed” milestone card, which 
gives a bonus of $5 on burgers. He has also played a luxury ma-
nager, which raises the unit price by $10. His unit price is $10 + 
$10 = $20. The garden doubles this income, to 2 x $20 = $40. The 
burger bonus of $5 is then added, so the income for the burger 
is $45. He has no bonus for drinks, so the beer sells for the same 
unit price of $20, which is doubled because of the garden to $40. 
So his total income is $45 + 2x $40 = $125.
Waitresses: After all houses have been processed, each chain receives 
$3 (or $5 if they have the “First waitress played” milestone) for each 
waitress in their structure. 
CFO: Then, each chain that has a CFO in their structure (or the “First 
to have $100” milestone) receives a 50% bonus on all cash, including 
waitress tips, that it earned in this turn (rounded up).
If at any time during this phase the bank has insufficient funds to pay 
out all income, the bank breaks and reserve cards are opened (see brea-
king the bank). If the bank breaks a second time, the game ends at the 
end of this phase, and salaries will not be paid this turn.
Breaking the bank (1st time): Open the reserve cards that were chosen 
by the players at the start of the game. Sum the money amounts shown 
on the reserve cards and add this total to the bank. 
Each reserve card also shows 2, 3 or 4 open slots. Whichever number 
occurs most determines the number of slots all CEO’s will have from 
the next turn onwards. For example, if there are two ”2 slot” cards, one 
“3 slot”, and one “4 slot”, all CEOs will have 2 slots instead of 3 for 
the remainder of the game. If two types of reserve cards occur equally 
often, the highest number determines the slots—for example, two “2 
slots” cards and two “4 slots” cards will lead to all CEOs having 4 slots. 
Place the appropriate reserve cards under the CEOs as a visual remin-
der of the new number of slots.
Breaking the bank (2nd time): If the bank breaks a second time, 
the game ends. Finish phase 4 and continue paying all players their 
earnings, if need be by writing cash still owed from the bank down on 
paper. Whoever has the most cash at the end of this phase wins the 
game. In case of a tie, the tied player who is earlier in turn order wins.

Phase 5: Payday
Each chain may now choose to fire any number of people in the compa-
ny structure or on the beach. Cards that are fired must be placed back 
into the general stock of available cards.
Normally, marketeers that are busy may not be fired. 
Then, each chain needs to pay $5 for each card in their structure or on 
the beach that has a 
 on the card. Note that there are a number of 
milestones and employee abilities that allow you to reduce the amount 
of salary you pay. Paid wages are returned to the bank.
Busy marketeers with a 
 must still be paid. In exceptional cases, a 
player may have no money but an obligation to pay a busy marketeer. 
In this case, the marketeer must be fired. The corresponding marketing 
campaign remains on the board. Note that this is only allowed if you 
have already fired all of your other employees that require a salary.
Recruiting manager and HR director: If the company structure 
contains a Recruiting manager or HR director that has not been used 
to full capacity for hiring new people, the additional actions of these 
managers reduce the amount the chain pays in salaries. Each left-over 
action gives a $5 discount.
All discounts that are available have to be used (this may be relevant if 
you want to get the “First to pay $20 in salaries” milestone). No matter 
how much salary discount you have, however, the minimum amount to 
be paid is $0—people will not pay to work for you!
Phase 6: Marketing campaigns
In this phase, all marketing campaigns run. This happens in the order 
of the numbers printed on the campaigns, with the lowest number first.
Note that each house can have at most 3 demand tokens in total, or 5 
if the house has a garden. If a campaign reaches a house that is already 
filled with demand tokens, it has no effect on that house. This may lead 
to some campaigns being utterly useless, as is the nature of marketing 
campaigns.
 
Billboard campaign: A billboard reaches all houses it is orthogonally 
adjacent to. Normally, it will reach 1 or 2 houses only. Place a demand 
token of the type advertised by the campaign on each adjacent house. A 
house will be reached even if only its garden is adjacent to the billboard.
Mailbox campaign: A mailbox reaches all houses it can get to without 
crossing a road (you can think of the area enclosed by roads and per-
haps the border of the board as a “block”). A mailbox is only stopped by 
roads, and will freely pass through other map elements such as restau-
rants and houses. Place a demand token of the type advertised by the 
campaign on each house in the block.
Airplane campaign: An airplane reaches every house that it can fly 
over. These are all houses in a line of 1, 3 or 5 rows or columns across 
the board starting from the airplane counter. Place a demand token of 
the type advertised by the campaign on each house in the fly-over zone. 
A house will be reached even if only part of the house, or its garden, is 
in the fly-over zone.
Radio campaign: A radio campaign reaches every house on the tile 
on which the radio campaign has been placed, as well as houses on all 
8 tiles surrounding that tile. A house will be reached even if only part 
of the house, or the garden, is on one of these tiles. A radio campaign 
started by a player with the “First radio campaign” milestone will place 
two demand tokens.
After running a campaign, remove one advertising token from the 
campaign (unless it is an eternal campaign). If the campaign has no 
more tokens left, return it to the stock and return the corresponding 
marketeer to the player. Otherwise, the campaign stays on the board, 
and the marketeer remains busy. Note that a busy marketeer is never 
placed into your company structure next turn, and also will not require 
an (open) slot. He may still require a salary though!
Phase 7: Clean up 
All players who do not have the “first to throw away drink/food” 
milestone must discard any food or drinks they still own.
All cards from the company structure and the beach are taken back into 
hand. Other players may ask to see them at this point.
All restaurants that are showing the “COMING SOON” side are turned 
over to their “WELCOME” side.
If any milestones have been awarded this turn, all remaining milestone 
cards of the same type are turned upside down. These are no longer 
available for the rest of the game.
Advertising tokens that have been placed on campaigns, and demand 
tokens that have been placed on houses remain on the board.
The next turn then starts, commencing with phase 1.

If a player at any point in the turn fulfi lls the requirements of a milestone 
card, he is immediately awarded that milestone card. Most milestones 
give benefi ts. Th ese benefi ts take eff ect immediately. You must apply the 
benefi t for the rest of the game, even if it is not helpful.
Other players can claim the same milestone provided that they do so 
during the same turn. Occasionally there may not be enough milestones 
cards; please make a proxy copy to hand out in that case. In phase 7 of each 
turn, all remaining milestone cards that have been claimed at least once 
are taken out of the game and can no longer be claimed by other players.
Milestones are very important in the game and it is vital to plan your 
strategy around them.
First billboard placed
Th is milestone is awarded when you place a billboard campaign on the map.
For the rest of the game, two eff ects occur:
 
• You no longer pay salaries for marketeers (campaign manager, 
brand manager, brand director). It is not allowed to pay salaries 
voluntarily.
 
• When you place a marketing campaign, it remains on the board 
forever. To indicate this, place the campaign tile on its eternal 
side on the board with a single wooden piece on it. Th e corres-
ponding marketeer card will be unavailable for the rest of the 
game. It will not be returned to the stock or the player’s hand. 
Th is rule already applies to the billboard you place to get the 
milestone.
First to train someone
Th is milestone is awarded when you train an employee to a higher level.
For the rest of the game, you will receive a $15 discount on salary costs. 
Salary costs can never go below $0. Using the discount is obligatory; 
you may not voluntarily pay salaries.
First to hire three people in one turn
Th is milestone is awarded when you hire three people or more in the 
same turn.
You immediately receive 2 management trainee cards that are placed 
on the beach. If you have active training capacity, you may immediately 
train these cards as recruitment happens before training. In the unli-
kely case that there are not enough management trainee cards left , you 
receive whatever is left .
First burger/pizza/drink marketed
Th ese milestones are awarded when you place a marketing campaign 
that advertises burgers/pizza/any type of drink, respectively. 
For the rest of the game, that chain receives a bonus for being the 
“Home of the original burger/pizza/drink”. Whenever it sells a burger/
pizza/drink, it gets an additional $5 bonus. Th is bonus does not aff ect 
the unit price. Th is means it has no infl uence on the inhabitants’ deci-
sions on where to eat; and it is not doubled by gardens. Like all income, 
however, it can be boosted by a CFO.
In the case of drinks, the bonus counts for all drinks, not just the type 
originally marketed.
First errand boy played
Th is milestone is awarded when you play an errand boy in your struc-
ture. It is not awarded for errand boys on the beach.
For the rest of the game, your buyers (errand boys, cart operators, truck 
drivers, and zeppelin pilots) get 1 extra drink per source they encoun-
ter. So, errand boys will get 2 (identical) drinks of any type. Cart opera-
tors and zeppelin pilots will gather 3 drinks for each drink symbol they 
pass, and truck drivers will receive 4. 
Th is bonus applies to the errand boy played to get the milestone.
First to have $20
Th is milestone is awarded if you have $20 cash at any time (in practice 
this means aft er getting income and before paying out salaries).
You may look at the face down reserve cards. You are allowed to make 
truthful or confusing noises about whatever you see on the cards. Ho-
wever, you may not show them to other players.
First burger/pizza produced
Th ese milestones are awarded when you produce a burger/pizza, res-
pectively.
You immediately receive a burger cook/ pizza cook card. As this 
milestone is awarded during production, you may not train the burger 
cook, as training occurs before production. If there are no more cook 
cards of the correct type, you receive nothing. Th e cook will require a 
salary in the Payday phase. If you do not want to pay her, you may fi re 
the cook instead.
First waitress played
Th is milestone is awarded when you play a waitress in your structure. It 
is not awarded for waitresses on the beach.
For the rest of the game, you will receive $5 for each waitress in your 
structure rather than $3. Th is bonus already applies to the waitress 
played to get the milestone.
First to throw away drink/food
Th is milestone is awarded when you throw away at least one food or 
drink token in phase 7 (Cleanup). 
For the rest of the game, this milestone card functions as a freezer. You 
may store up to 10 tokens (food and/or drink) in the freezer during 
phase 7. Th ese items may be sold in subsequent turns. Items can be kept 
in the freezer for as long as you want. If you have more than 10 tokens, 
you may freely choose which ones to keep and which ones to discard.
You may not yet store anything in the freezer in the turn in which you 
receive this milestone. 
Milestones

First to lower prices
This milestone is awarded when you play a pricing manager or a dis-
count manager into your structure, thereby lowering your prices.
For the rest of the game, your prices will automatically be $1 lower. 
For instance, they will be $9 if you play no price related managers. You 
cannot undo this effect. 
This takes effect immediately, so your prices will already be $1 lower in 
the turn in which you first lowered prices.
First cart operator played
This milestone is awarded when you place the first cart operator into 
your structure. It is not awarded for cart operators on the beach.
For the rest of the game, your cart operators, truck drivers and zeppelin 
pilots will have +1 range. This takes effect immediately, so your first 
cart operator will already have a range of 3.
First airplane campaign
This milestone is awarded when you place an airplane campaign.
For the rest of the game, when determining order of play, you add 2 
extra open slots. These slots cannot be used to play managers or other 
employees, they are just a bonus when determining the order of play.
First radio campaign
This milestone is awarded when you place a radio campaign.
For the rest of the game, if you have a radio campaign running in phase 
6: place 2 goods of the type advertised on each of the houses reached by 
the radio. If the house is already full, place 0 or 1 goods, depending on 
how much advertising the house will still take. 
You may not choose to market 1 instead of 2 goods. Your radio will 
market the same good twice, it cannot market two different goods.
This takes effect immediately, so in phase 6 of the turn in which the 
milestone is achieved.
First to have $100
This milestone is awarded if you have $100 or more in cash at the end 
of phase 4.
Your CEO gets the ability to also do the work of a CFO. This gives a 50% 
cash bonus at the end of phase 4 (dinnertime). You do not get a CFO 
card. If you already have a CFO card, you must fire the CFO in phase 5 
of this turn. You may not train a CFO anymore after you have achieved 
this milestone.
The new ability takes effect only from the next turn onward, as you can 
get it only after phase 4 has just ended.
First to pay $20 or more in salaries
This milestone is awarded if you have to pay $20 or more in salaries 
in phase 5. These salaries have to be actually paid out— you may not 
count salaries that are covered by a discount. Note that you have to use 
all discounts still available to you at the start of phase 5. You may not 
voluntarily pay more salaries than you have to. (Of course, you may use 
a recruiting manager or HR director to hire an employee in phase 2 so 
her salary discounts are no longer available in phase 5). 
For the rest of the game, you may use training actions provided by mul-
tiple employees to train the same person. For instance, with 2 trainers 
and a coach, you could now train a management trainee up to an exe-
cutive vice president in one turn.

Introductory 
game
Food Chain Magnate is a highly unforgiving game. If you make a mista-
ke, it can be very hard or even impossible to get back on track. 
In order to get to know the game, we strongly advise during your fi rst 
game to alter the rules as follows:
 
• Do not use the reserve cards.
 
• Put $75 per player into the bank pool instead of $50.
 
• Take out all milestones.
 
• Do not pay any salaries (skip phase 5).
 
• Th e game ends when the bank breaks once.
Th is will allow for a somewhat shorter game that enables everyone to 
get to know the rules without running their companies into the ground.
For your next game, we recommend playing with these same alterati-
ons and adding the milestone cards (even if some of them will not have 
a benefi t in the introductory game).
Strategy 
Guide
Some strategic pointers:
 
• Th e best strategy in this game is highly dependent on: the board 
layout, your board position, and the actions of other players (in 
no particular order).
 
• Milestones are the key to planning your strategy. You will need 
to achieve milestones before others do. Reaching the right 
milestones as soon as possible is oft en essential, as the others 
will likely be taken by the time you reach them.
 
• Th ere is a trade-off between building up your company through 
recruitment and training and earning money through marke-
ting and sales. Th e winning mix depends on how long the game 
will take. Th is is strongly determined by the trade-off chosen by 
the players.
 
• Th e game normally accelerates strongly towards the end. You 
can win by earning money only in the last turn, if you have pre-
pared well. Or, you could still be preparing for a turn that never 
comes.
 
• You can hurt other players by advertising goods they cannot 
produce. But beware, you may also be helping them sell more 
later on!
 
• Price wars are very eff ective to attack others, but they will be 
very costly to yourself as well. Use them tactically. 
 
• Houses with gardens are very lucrative but may attract competition.
 
• You can sometimes make more money selling a few things at 
high prices than by selling a lot of things at a discount. But it can 
also be the other way around.
 
• Sometimes, it can be useful to advertise in such a way that other 
players earn money—as long as you earn more yourself! 
 
• Combine the previous two ideas.