Contents
37 cards, divided as follows: 
	 • 15 Storm cards 
	 • 14 Equipment cards 
	 • 6 Adventurer cards 
	 • 2 Blueprint cards 
36 Power Platform tiles 
32 circuit components: 
	 • 16 wires (12 short, 4 long) 
	 • 6 lightning rods 
	 • 6 small capacitors 
	 • 3 large capacitors 
	 • 1 launch pad 
13 meter clips 
6 wooden pawns 
1 Storm meter 
1 Storm meter stand 
1 starting grid 
1 rocket
Overview
Your flying machine is about to dock at a secret power platform 
that floats 7,000 feet above the ground. As you descend, you catch a glimpse of a 
rocket poking out of the fog. If your team can power this rocket, you’ll be able to blast 
off with the hope of finally finding the Archean’s long-lost civilization. In order to 
succeed in your mission, you will have to explore the platform and wire together all 
the necessary components (capacitors, lightning rods, and the launch pad) into a true 
electrical circuit. Your problem? The platform is in the middle of a fierce storm that 
threatens every move with lightning and high winds. Will your team be able to power 
up the rocket before you’re electrocuted or blown off to the depths below?
2–5 players
ages 10+
Height of Danger

3. Place the Rocket and Circuit Components
Place the rocket, launch pad, large and 
small capacitors, lightning rods, and wires 
near the starting grid. (If this is your first 
time playing, remove the tab from the 
side of the rocket.)
4. Set Up the Storm
Place the red clip on the Storm meter according to the number of 
players and push the meter into its stand.
 
5. Divide the Cards
Separate the cards into the Storm deck (radar pattern back), 
Equipment deck (gear back), Blueprint cards, and Adventurer cards. 
Shuffle the Storm deck and place it face down near the Storm meter. 
Shuffle the Equipment deck and place it off to the side.
Setup
1. Examine the Tiles
Look at the 36 Power Platform tiles to get an idea of what they look like. 
(See “Tile Symbols” for more.) Flip them all face down, mix them, 
and stack them to form the Power Platform draw pile.
2. Place the Starting Grid
If this is your first time playing, 
assemble the starting grid by placing 
the wind compass arrow into the 
center hole on one end and snapping 
the bottom connector to secure it. 
Place the starting grid in the center of the playing area. Put a lightning 
rod on the location indicated. Treat this grid as 4 separate tiles from 
now on. Point the wind compass towards the platform as shown below.
6. Choose Your 
Difficulty Level
Select the Blueprint card 
corresponding to the difficulty 
you want to play and place 
it face up, near the circuit 
components. (For example, 
if this is your first time playing 
a cooperative game, select 
the Novice blueprint. If you 
have played Forbidden Island 
or Forbidden Desert, or if you 
are an experienced cooperative 
game player, start on Normal.) 
Put the other Blueprint cards 
back into the box. 
Note that each Blueprint shows the outline of the launch pad (up top) 
along with a different number of large capacitors, small capacitors, 
and lightning rods, which you will have to wire into a circuit to win 
the game. See “Creating the Circuit” for more details. 
Storm Deck
Equipment Deck
Launch 
Compass
Landing 
Launch 
 Rods
Short & Long Wires
Starting Grid
Small & Large Capacitors
Rod
Small 
Capacitors
Rods
Difficulty Level
Large 
Capacitors

7. The Adventurers Appear
Shuffle the 6 Adventurer cards and randomly 
deal 1 to each player. Take a moment to read 
aloud the powers written on the front of your 
cards so your teammates know your strengths. 
(More details can be found in “Meet the 
Adventurers.”) You’ll find you may need 
to take advantage of each player’s special 
abilities in order to win. The front of your 
card also shows your adventurer’s health 
meter and rope meter. 
Take 2 clips and place them over your card so that one covers the top 
mark of your health meter (left) and one covers the top mark of your 
rope meter (right). As you lose health or your rope takes wear, you’ll 
move these clips down. 
Take a pawn matching the color of your Adventurer card and place it 
on the “landing pad” tile on the starting grid. Put any extra Adventurer 
cards, pawns, and clips back into the box.
Hand a tile from the Power Platform draw pile to each player. 
Players should keep these tiles face up.
Scout
Draw the top tile from the Power Platform draw pile and place it 
face up in front of you. You may hold up to 3 tiles at any one time. 
If you already have 3 tiles, you may not perform the Scout action.
Order of Play
The person who last traveled by air goes first and 
play continues to the left. On every turn, do the 
following things in order:
1. Take up to 4 actions. 
2. Draw and resolve Storm cards equal 
 to the Storm Intensity.
The parts of each turn are described below. Also note that every 
Adventurer card shows a quick reference guide on the back.
1. Take up to 4 Actions
You may take up to 4 actions each turn (0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, in any order). 
Your teammates are allowed (and encouraged!) to give you advice 
on the best actions to take during your turn. Select any combination 
of the following actions: Move, Scout, Explore, and Wire.
Move
You may move your pawn to an adjacent tile for 1 action per move: 
either up, down, left, or right, but never diagonally. The surface of the 
platform must be connected across the two tiles for you to move in 
this way. (You cannot move across sky.) You may also move between 
teleporter tiles for 1 action (see “Teleporters”).
Starting Four-Player Layout

Explore
Place one of your tiles onto the Power Platform so that it is adjacent to 
the tile that your pawn is on. Rotate the tile any way you want as long 
as at least one printed copper wire on the new tile connects to a printed 
wire on your current tile. (You cannot connect a side with only sky 
to an adjacent tile.) The tile must also square up with the adjacent tile. 
You may place a component even if you’ve already placed the number of 
components required in your chosen blueprint. However, once every 
component of a given type is used, you can no longer place any more 
of that type of component. (For example, once you place all 3 large 
capacitors, you cannot place another large capacitor, even if you make 
another green circle.)
Tile Symbols
Lightning Rod (6 tiles, including one on the starting grid) 
Whenever you place a tile with the lightning rod symbol on the 
power platform, immediately add a lightning rod component. 
These components are all struck by lightning every time a 
Lightning Strikes! card is drawn from the Storm deck. Be 
careful how you place these—any players on tiles connected 
to a lightning rod by wires (both physical and printed) will be 
jolted when lightning strikes.
Teleporter (7 tiles, including one on the starting grid) 
You may move between any two tiles containing teleporters 
for 1 action.
Gear (12 tiles) 
When you explore (place) a tile with a gear symbol on it, 
you’ve discovered a valuable piece of equipment that can help 
your team during the game. Immediately draw the top card 
from the Equipment deck, place it face up in front of you, and 
read its instructions. Keep the card until you decide to use it. 
Important: Equipment cards may only be used by the player 
who possesses them. However, you may pass them for free at 
any time to another player on your tile. Most equipment can 
be played at any time (see specifics on each card), though as 
a general rule they cannot reverse the effects of Storm cards 
once they have been drawn. There is no hand limit for 
Equipment cards.
Wind Shelter (3 tiles) 
Wind Shelters provide protection from High Winds cards. 
Pawns on tiles with these symbols are not blown when a High 
Winds card is drawn. Note: If your pawn is blown to a tile with 
this symbol during the Storm phase, you are sheltered from 
future high winds as long as your pawn is on it.
Faraday Cage (4 tiles) 
Faraday Cages provide protection from electricity. Pawns on 
tiles with these symbols are not jolted (and therefore do not lose 
any health) when lightning strikes. Note: If your pawn is blown to 
a tile with this symbol during the Storm phase, you are protected 
from future lightning strikes as long as your pawn is on it.
If the tile you place completes a circle filled with a color, 
immediately place the corresponding circuit component on top of it:
If the tile you place has a lightning 
rod symbol on it, immediately place a 
lightning rod component on the tile.
Note that all component part circles 
have printed copper wires as their 
borders. You may place a tile so that 
a component part connects with a plain 
wire on another tile. This counts for 
connecting wires, but the component 
will remain incomplete. 
Small Capacitor
Large Capacitor
Launch Pad
You may place the 
launch pad in any 
orientation.

Wire
Add a physical wire to a circuit component attached to your tile so 
that it connects to another circuit component. You may use either 
a short or long wire, as long as it reaches the other component. If the 
wire cannot span both components without falling off, you may not 
add it there. 
You may also peform this action to remove a wire from a circuit 
component on your tile. (When you do this, return the wire to the supply.)
Important: 
•	Each component may have up to two wires connecting to it.
•	To complete the circuit, the launch pad must have one wire touching 
each metal side.
•	Make sure that each wire makes a clean connection to the metal 
of the component.
•	You do not have to wire a component if it’s beyond the required 
minimum to complete your blueprint.
A wire here will 
complete the circuit. 
The blue, white, and 
orange pawns will lift 
off with the rocket.
Don’t get left behind! 
The yellow pawn will 
be abandoned if the 
circuit is completed.
Creating the Circuit
In order to take off in the rocket, you must wire the launch pad into 
a circuit, using the components listed on your blueprint card. 
The blueprint shows the minimum number of each kind of component 
that must be used. (You may use more.) The components must be in 
a true series circuit, that is, they must be connected in a circle starting 
with a wire connected to one side of the launch pad and ending with 
a wire connected to the opposite side of the launch pad. 
Watch out! As soon as the very last wire is placed, the rocket will launch! 
Be sure each pawn is on one of the four tiles holding the launch pad 
before you place the last wire, or the rocket will leave adventurers 
behind—and everyone will lose the game!
Examples: 
Only one wire 
can connect 
to each side of 
the launch pad.
A maximum of 
two wires can 
connect to any 
component.
The Knotsmith connects a wire between 
the launch pad and a small capacitor.
You can connect a wire to the launch pad as long as 
your pawn is on one of the four tiles that hold it.
The Electrician connects a wire between 
a large and a small capacitor.
The Medic connects a wire between 
a small capacitor and a lightning rod.
Improper Circuit Connections

Share Equipment
In addition to the above actions, players on the same tile may pass 
equipment cards at any time during the game for free. Unless your 
adventurer says otherwise, you may not pass tiles or share ropes 
or health.
2. Draw Storm Cards
After taking actions, you must now take on the role 
of the lightning storm! Draw cards from the Storm 
draw pile equal to the Storm Intensity level on the 
Storm meter. Reveal and resolve the cards one 
at a time and discard them face up into the discard 
pile. Note: You may look through the discard pile at 
any time during the game.
Lightning Strikes!
There are 6 Lightning Strikes! cards in the Storm 
deck. When you draw one of these cards, every 
lightning rod in play is struck by lightning and 
every player on a lightning rod tile receives a 
“jolt” of electricity and loses 1 health. In addition, 
the electricity from the lightning rod follows the 
wires (both the printed wires on the board and the 
wires added by the players) that can trace a path to them, and everyone 
on a tile that is connected in this way gets jolted and loses 1 health. 
(Lower the clip on the health meter on your Adventurer card to the 
next lowest tick mark.) If a clip reaches the symbol, that character 
has received too many jolts and everyone loses the game. 
Note: A player only ever loses 1 health per Lightning Strikes! card.
When a Lightning Strikes! card is drawn, the Navigator (yellow pawn) gets 
jolted and loses 1 health because she’s on a tile with a lightning rod. The 
Medic (orange) also loses 1 health because she’s on a tile that’s connected 
to a lightning rod by a printed copper wire. The Surveyor (green) does not 
lose health because he’s on a tile with a Faraday Cage. The Electrician 
(white) loses 1 health because she’s on a launch pad tile and the launch 
pad is connected to the lightning rod. The Knotsmith (blue) does not lose 
health because he’s on a tile that is not connected to the lightning rod by 
either type of wire. (It’s okay that a wire passes over his tile.)
Turn Example
Example: 
Move the Surveyor one platform tile.
Scout to draw a tile.
Explore to add the tile. 
(The small capacitor is 
added automatically.)
Wire the two circuit 
components together.
Faraday 
Cage

Winds Change 
These 2 cards change the direction of the wind. Rotate the arrow on 
the wind compass 90° either clockwise or counter-clockwise as shown 
on the card.
Storm Intensifies
There are 3 Storm Intensifies cards 
in the Storm deck. When you draw 
a Storm Intensifies card, move the clip 
on the Storm meter up 1 tick mark. 
The numbers on the Storm meter 
show the Storm Intensity. This is 
how many cards you’ll draw, 
starting on the next player’s turn. 
If the clip on the Storm meter ever 
reaches the , the storm has become 
so intense that the players are all 
blown off the platform and lose 
the game! 
One of the Storm Intensifies cards 
instructs you to also reshuffle all 
the cards in the Storm deck and 
to stop drawing cards. Shuffle cards 
in the draw pile and discard pile 
together, stack them to form a new 
Storm draw pile, and stop drawing 
Storm cards for that turn.
Winning the Game
Get to the Launch Pad! Once you have wired the required 
components into a circuit (except one final wire that you’ll use to 
take off), first place the rocket onto the launch pad. Then everyone 
should head to one of the four tiles containing the launch pad. 
(You all don’t have to be on the same tile.) As a final step, one player 
must add the last wire (either on their turn or by Remote Fuser) 
to complete the circuit and launch the rocket for the win!
Losing the Game
There are 4 possible ways to lose:
1.	 Electrocuted. If the clip on any player’s health meter reaches .
2.	 Fall. If the clip on any player’s rope meter reaches .
3.	 Swept Away. If the clip on the Storm meter reaches .
4.	 Abandoned. If the rocket takes off before everyone is on 
a launch pad tile.
Difficulty
Once you’ve won on the Novice game, try the Normal, Elite, or 
Legendary difficulty settings. Each one presents a more challenging 
circuit to build. Also, try playing with different mixes of adventurers.
High Winds
These 4 cards “blow” the adventurers one tile in 
the direction of the arrow on the wind compass. 
If a pawn cannot move because there is no tile 
in that direction, then that adventurer’s rope gets 
worn by 1 point instead. (Lower the rope clip on 
the adventurer card to the next lowest tick mark.) 
If there’s a tile in that direction but it is only 
connected by clouds (the platform surface is not attached) the pawn 
does not move and that adventurer’s rope loses 1 point instead. 
If a clip reaches the symbol, the rope has snapped, that character 
falls 7,000 feet, and everyone loses the game.
When a High Winds card is drawn, players look at the direction 
of the wind compass (up in this case). The Electrician (white pawn) 
loses 1 point of rope because there is no tile above her for her to move to. 
The Medic (orange) moves up 1 tile (to the tile with the white pawn— 
no rope loss). The Surveyor (green) does not move and loses 1 point 
of rope because he cannot cross the cloud gap between tiles. 
The Navigator (yellow) also does not move and loses 1 point of rope 
because the tile above her is not connected by platform. The Knotsmith 
(blue) does not lose rope because he’s on a tile with a Wind Shelter. 
Example: 
Compass
Shelter

A Word from Gamewright
The saga continues! What started off as a simple island adventure has 
evolved into an ever-developing storyline. From ocean, to desert, and 
now to the sky, this latest installment takes you to new heights with 
several novel challenges, including collectively planning a terrain using 
only limited information, and constructing a real electrical circuit. 
Forbidden Sky also breaks new ground for us as a publisher, as it’s our 
first game to include an electronic component. Inventor Matt Leacock 
created such a compelling mechanism with building a circuit that we 
felt it warranted breaking our long-held rule of not publishing games 
with batteries. Hopefully, you’ll agree that the payoff is electrifying!
Meet the Adventurers
facebook.com/gamewright 
@gamewright 
#ForbiddenSky
70 Bridge Street, Newton, MA 02458 
email: jester@gamewright.com 
Gamewright.com 
©2018 Gamewright, a division of Ceaco, Inc. 
All worldwide rights reserved.
Game by Matt Leacock 
Illustrations by C.B. Canga
•	 Unscrew the battery cover with a Philips screwdriver (not included).
•	 Remove batteries and dispose of them safely.
•	 Install 3 new 1.5V button cell (LR44) batteries in the 
orientation (+/–) shown.
•	 Replace battery cover and tighten screw.
•	 For best performance, use only alkaline batteries.
•	 Replace batteries if sounds are distorted 
and/or lights don't flash.
BATTERY SAFETY INFORMATION
•	 Do not mix old and new batteries. 
•	 Do not mix batteries of different types: alkaline, standard (carbon-zinc) or rechargeable (nickel-cadmium).
•	 Non-rechargeable batteries are not to be recharged.
•	 Rechargeable batteries are only to be charged under adult supervision.
•	 Rechargeable batteries are to be removed from the toy before being charged.
•	 The supply terminals are not to be short-circuited.
•	 Remove batteries when product is stored for long periods of time or when batteries are exhausted. Dispose of batteries 
safely. Do not dispose of this product in a fire. The batteries inside may explode or leak.
•	 Batteries are to be inserted with the correct polarity.
•	 Correct disposal of this product. 
This marking indicates that this product should not be disposed with other household wastes throughout 
the EU. To prevent possible harm to the environment or human health from uncontrolled waste disposal, 
recycle it responsibly to promote the sustainable reuse of material resources.
•	 NOTE: This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to 
Part 15 of the FCC Rules. These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a 
residential installation. This equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and 
used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there is no 
guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation. If this equipment does cause harmful interference to 
radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, the user is encouraged to try 
to correct the interference by one or more of the following measures: 
- Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna. 
- Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver. 
- Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected. 
- Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician for help. 
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by the party responsible for compliance could void the user’s authority 
to operate the equipment.
BATTERY REPLACEMENT
Climber
The Climber may jump over clouds that appear 
between two adjacent platform tiles. He may take one 
other player with him whenever he moves, even across 
clouds and through teleporters. Additionally, if the 
Climber is blown across clouds between adjacent tiles 
by a High Winds card, he crosses without losing 
any rope and may take another player with him.
Electrician
Once per turn, the Electrician may add (or remove) 
a wire token to a component on her tile for free. 
She also starts the game with the most health of 
all the adventurers.
Surveyor
The Surveyor starts with 2 tiles at the beginning 
of the game and can hold 4 in hand. He can also 
give tiles to other players on his tile or an adjacent 
tile for free at any time.
Knotsmith
The Knotsmith may spend actions to repair 
the rope belonging to a player on his tile or an 
adjacent tile by 1 point of wear per action.
Navigator
The Navigator may move another player 3 tiles per 
action, and may use teleporters while doing so. 
When she moves the Climber this way he can use 
his powers to cross clouds and take one other 
player with him—including the Navigator!
Medic
The Medic may spend actions to heal an 
adventurer on her tile or an adjacent tile by 
1 point of health per action.
(x3) LR44