orbidden Island was the secluded retreat 
of an ancient mystical empire known as 
the Archeans. Legend has it that 
the Archeans possessed the ability to control the 
Earth’s core elements – fire, wind, water, and 
earth – through four sacred treasures: The Crystal 
of Fire, The Statue of the Wind, The Ocean’s 
Chalice, and The Earth Stone. Because of their 
potential to cause catastrophic damage if they 
fell into enemy hands, the Archeans kept the 
treasures secretly hidden on Forbidden Island and 
designed it to sink if intruders ever attempted to 
claim them. In the centuries since the mysterious 
collapse of their empire, Forbidden Island 
remained undiscovered ... until now.
Will your team be the first to breach its borders, 
capture the treasures, and make it out alive?
Forbidden
Island
2-4 Players | Ages 10 and up
Adventure... if you Dare
Contents
58 cards, divided as follows:
28 Treasure cards (red back) 
5 each of 4 treasures
3 Waters Rise!
3 Helicopter Lift
2 Sandbags
24 Flood cards (blue back)
 6 Adventurer cards
24 double-sided Island tiles
 6 wooden pawns
 4 treasure figurines:
The Earth Stone
The Statue of the Wind
The Crystal of Fire
The Ocean’s Chalice
 1 Water Meter
 1 Water Level marker

Object
Your team of adventurers must work together to keep Forbidden Island from sinking, in order 
to buy enough time to capture its four treasures. Once you’ve captured them, you must make it 
to Fools’ Landing and escape by helicopter to win. If however, the island sinks before you can 
complete your tasks, the mission ends in defeat!
Setup
1. Create Forbidden Island: Shuffle the 24 Island tiles and randomly 
place them face up (non blue and white side) into a grid as follows: First make a 4 x 4 square 
of tiles in the center of the playing area. Then place 2 tiles next to each of the 2 middle tiles on 
every side of the square. (Important Note: Leave a small gap between the tiles.) This forms 
Forbidden Island and your pawns will move on it like a game board.
2. Place the Treasures: Place the 4 treasure figurines – The Earth Stone, 
The Statue of the Wind, The Crystal of Fire, and The Ocean’s Chalice – around the island. 
Your team will try to capture these treasures during the course of the game by discarding 4 
matching Treasure cards on a corresponding Island tile. Take a moment to locate the 8 tiles on 
which you can claim treasures. Each treasure can be claimed on one of two tiles, as indicated 
by the symbol in the bottom left corner: 
The Earth Stone
The Crystal of Fire
The Ocean’s Chalice
The Statue of the Wind
- Starting Setup -

3. Divide the Cards: Separate the cards into three decks according to card 
back: Flood deck (blue back), Treasure deck (red back), and Adventurer cards (6 cards).
4. The Island Starts to Sink: Shuffle the Flood deck and place it face 
down on one side of the island to form the Flood draw pile. Draw the top 6 cards (1 at a time) 
and place them face up next to the draw pile to form the Flood discard pile. For each card 
drawn, flip the corresponding Island tile over to its “flooded” (blue and white) side.
5. The Adventurers Appear: 
Shuffle the 6 Adventurer cards and randomly deal 1 to each 
player. Each of you will take on the role of an adventurer with 
a special power that only you can do during the game. Take a 
moment to read aloud your roles and powers written on the 
bottom of the cards so that your teammates know your strengths. 
You’ll find the game will be easier to win if you cooperate and 
take advantage of these special powers.
Take a pawn matching the color of your Adventurer card and place it on the 
corresponding Island tile. (Look for the matching pawn icon in the lower right 
corner of the Gates and Fools’ Landing tiles.) Put any extra Adventurer cards and 
pawns back in the box. Note: It’s OK to start on a flooded tile.
6. Hand Out Treasure Deck Cards: 
Thoroughly shuffle the Treasure deck and deal 2 cards to each 
player. Place your cards face up in front of you so that both 
you and your teammates can easily see them. If anyone gets 
a Waters Rise! card, give them a replacement card and shuffle 
the Waters Rise! card back into the Treasure deck. Place the 
Treasure deck face down by one side of the island. Note: There 
will be a Treasure discard pile right next to the Treasure deck. 
7. Set the Water Level: Place the Water Level marker 
on the left side of the Water Meter and set it to the appropriate starting 
difficulty level, according to the type of game you want to play. (For example, 
if this is your first time playing a cooperative game, set it to the Novice level.) 
normal tile
flooded tile
Flood Deck
Treasure Deck
Adventurer Cards
flood card

Note: You may look through both Treasure and Flood discard piles at anytime during the game.
Order of Play
The player who last visited an island goes first and play continues to the 
left. On every turn, do the following three things in order:
1. Take up to 3 actions.
2. Draw 2 Treasure deck cards.
3. Draw Flood cards equal to the water level.
The parts of each turn are described below. Also note that the back of 
every Adventurer card shows a quick reference guide.
1. Take Up to 3 Actions
You may take up to 3 actions each turn (could be 0, 1, or 2). Your teammates are allowed 
(and encouraged!) to give you advice on the best actions to take during your turn. Select a 
combination of any of the following 4 actions:
• Move
• Shore Up
• Give a Treasure Card
• Capture a Treasure
Move
You may, for 1 or more actions, move your pawn to an adjacent Island 
tile: either up, down, left, or right, but never diagonally. You may 
move onto a flooded tile, but may not move onto (or over) the space of 
a missing tile.
 The Explorer may also move diagonally.
 The Pilot may move to any tile once per turn for 1 action.
 The Navigator may move other players up to 2 adjacent tiles per action.
 The Diver may move through one or more adjacent missing and/or 
 flooded tiles for 1 action.
Shore Up
You may, for 1 or more actions, shore up any adjacent Island tile 
(up, down, left, right), or the Island tile your pawn is on. To shore 
up a tile, simply flip it over so its un-flooded side is facing up. 
 
 The Engineer may shore up 2 tiles for 1 action.
 The Explorer may also shore up tiles diagonally. 

Give a Treasure Card
You may give 1 or more of your Treasure cards to 
another player if both of your pawns are on the same 
island tile. It costs 1 action for each card you give away. 
(See “Hand Limit” for restrictions.) You may not give 
Special Action cards. 
 The Messenger may give cards without having to be on the same tile. 
Capture a Treasure
You may, for 1 action, capture a treasure by discarding 4 matching Treasure cards from your 
hand if your pawn is on either corresponding island tile:
Notes
• When you capture a treasure, discard cards to the Treasure discard pile and move the
figurine in front of you. 
• You may capture a treasure on a flooded tile. 
Discard
Capture
Pawn on Corresponding Tile

2. Draw 2 Treasure Deck Cards
After taking actions, you must draw 2 cards from the top of the Treasure deck and add them to 
your face up hand. Draw cards 1 at a time. If you draw a Waters Rise! card, do not add it to your 
hand, but follow the instructions on the card and then discard it to the Treasure discard pile.
Treasure Cards
There are 5 of each Treasure card in the Treasure deck. The 
aim is to collect 4 of the same Treasure card in order to find the 
corresponding treasure of Forbidden Island. You can give Treasure 
cards to other players using the Give a Treasure Card action. 
Special Action Cards
There are 2 types of Special Action cards in the Treasure deck – 
Helicopter Lifts (3) and Sandbags (2) – that will help your team during 
the game. These cards are taken into your hand and can be played at 
any time — even on another player’s turn. Playing a Special Action 
card does not require an action. Discard these cards to the Treasure 
discard pile immediately when played. 
Note: You may use the power of a Special Action card if you are 
forced to discard it.
Waters Rise! Cards
There are 3 Waters Rise! cards in the Treasure deck. When you draw a Waters 
Rise! card, you must immediately do the following:
1. Move the Water Level marker up to cover the next tick mark on the 
Water Meter. Note how many cards will now be drawn at the end of 
your turn by looking at the number on the right of the meter. 
2. Take all of the cards from the Flood discard pile, shuffle them, and 
then place them face down on top of the Flood draw pile. This means 
that previously drawn cards will be drawn again soon! 
3. Discard the Waters Rise! card to the 
Treasure discard pile.
Notes: 
• If you draw a Waters Rise! card, you do not get a replacement card.
• If you draw 2 Waters Rise! cards in a row, shuffle the Flood discard pile only once but
move the Water Level marker up 2 tick marks.
• If you draw a Waters Rise! card but there are no cards in the Flood discard pile, just move
the Water Level marker up 1 tick mark.

When the Treasure Deck Runs Out
When the last card of the Treasure deck is drawn, immediately shuffle the Treasure discard 
pile and turn it over to form a new Treasure deck.
Hand Limit
You may only have 5 cards in your hand, including Treasure and Special Action cards. If 
you ever find that you have 6 or more cards (for example because you drew more cards or 
received cards from another player) you must immediately choose and discard the excess to the 
Treasure discard pile. If you choose to discard a Special Action card, you may use its action 
before discarding.
3. Draw Flood Cards
After drawing 2 Treasure cards, you must now take on the role of Forbidden 
Island! Draw a number of cards from the top of the Flood draw pile equal to 
the current Water Meter level. (For example, if the level is at 3, draw 3 cards.) 
Draw cards 1 at a time and place them face up onto the Flood discard pile. For 
each card drawn, find the matching Island tile and do one of the following:
 • If the matching Island tile is un-flooded, flip it over to its flooded side.
 
• If the matching Island tile is already flooded, it sinks into the abyss! Remove it and 
the matching Flood card from the game and place them out of play.
Note: You cannot play a Sandbag card to save a flooded tile once you’ve revealed the 
matching Flood card.
Pawns on Flooded Tiles
If a pawn is on a tile that becomes flooded, lift the pawn off the tile, flip it and then return 
the pawn to the tile.
If a pawn is on a tile that must be removed, it must immediately “swim” to an adjacent tile (up, 
down, left, or right) that is still part of the island (even flooded). If a pawn is on a tile that is 
removed and cannot move to an adjacent tile, it sinks into the abyss and everyone loses the game!
Exceptions: The Diver may swim to the nearest tile. The Explorer may swim diagonally. 
The Pilot may fly to any tile.
Remove
-Before-
-After-
Out of Play
normal tile
flooded tile
flood card

When the Flood Draw Pile Runs Out
If the Flood draw pile ever runs out, immediately shuffle the Flood discard pile and stack 
the cards face down to form a new Flood draw pile. If this happens in the middle of a turn, 
continue drawing Flood cards as necessary from the new pile.
Game End
Winning the Game
Get to Fools’ Landing! Once you have collected all four 
treasures, everyone must move their pawns to the Fools’ 
Landing tile. Then, one player must discard a Helicopter Lift 
card to lift your team off of Forbidden Island for the win!
Note: You may win if Fools’ Landing is flooded.
Losing the Game
There are four possible ways to lose:
1. If both Temples, Caves, Palaces, or Gardens tiles sink before you collect their respective treasures.
2. If the Fools’ Landing tile sinks.
3. If any player is on an Island tile that sinks and there is no adjacent tile to swim to.
4. If the water level reaches the skull and crossbones.
Difficulty
Once you’ve won the Novice game, try starting the water level at the Normal, Elite, or 
Legendary difficulty settings. Also, try playing with a different mix of adventurers.
A Word from Gamewright
It’s a great honor to introduce the latest creation by cooperative game master, Matt Leacock. 
There are so many things we love about this unique game: from the rich illustrations, to the 
collaborative nature of play, to the innovative set of rules, to the infinite possibilities generated 
by the tiles and cards. Don’t be surprised if your pulse starts pounding faster soon after you 
start playing – it’s a game that instantly generates an electrifying atmosphere of tension and 
excitement!
Game by Matt Leacock
Illustrations by C.B. Canga
Games for the Infinitely Imaginative®
70 Bridge Street | Newton, MA 02458
Tel:617-924-6006 | Fax:617-969-1758
e-mail:jester@gamewright.com | www.gamewright.com
©2010 Gamewright, a division of Ceaco
All worldwide rights reserved.