Overview
Your team of adventurers has been sent on 
a mission to excavate an ancient desert city 
and recover a legendary flying machine that’s 
rumored to be powered by the sun. Moments 
before arriving at your destination, an unexpected 
sand storm forces your helicopter to make a crash 
landing. Now stranded in the vast desert and 
exposed to an unrelenting storm, your only hope 
for survival is to quickly excavate the city, find 
the parts to the flying machine and rebuild it for 
the escape. If, however, any of your team expires 
from thirst or the storm gets too intense, your 
whole team loses and you become permanent 
artifacts of the Forbidden Desert.
Contents
49 cards, divided as follows:
	 • 31 storm cards
	 • 12 equipment cards
	 • 6 adventurer cards
48 Sand markers
24 double-sided desert/city tiles
6 wooden pawns
6 meter clips
4 flying machine parts
	 • propeller
	 • engine
	 • solar crystal
	 • navigation deck
1 sand storm meter
1 sand storm meter stand
1 flying machine model
2-5 Players
Ages 10 and up

Set Up
1. Examine the Tiles 
Look at the 24 desert/city tiles 
to get an idea of what they 
look like on each side. (See 
“Special Tiles and Symbols” 
for more.) Then, turn them all desert-side up. 
Important: You may not peek at the tiles once they’ve 
been turned over!
2. Create the Desert 
Shuffle the desert/city tiles and randomly place them desert 
side up into a 5 x 5 square grid with a tile missing in the 
middle, as shown to the right. Make sure that the tiles are all 
oriented the same way, with the compass symbol in the top 
left corner. Also, leave a small gap between the tiles. 
This forms the Forbidden Desert and your pawns will move 
on it like a game board. The hole in the center of the board 
represents the Sand Storm which will “move” around the 
board over the course of the game.
3. Place Sand markers 
Add 8 Sand markers to the board as shown to 
the right. Place them with the lighter colored 
side (not the “X” side) facing up. Stack the rest 
of the Sand markers in a pile near the board.
4. Place the Flying Machine Parts 
Remove the 4 parts from the flying machine and place 
everything nearby. Your team will try to find these parts 
buried in the city.
5. Set the Sand Storm Level 
Insert the Sand Storm meter into the holder and then place a 
meter clip on it according to the number of players (bottom 
corners) and level of difficulty you wish to play. (For example, 
if you are three players and this is your first time playing a 
cooperative game, set it to the Novice level, above the symbol 
for three pawns.)
6. Divide the Cards 
Separate the cards into the Storm deck (red back), Equipment 
deck (gear back), and Adventurer cards. Shuffle the Storm 
deck and place it face down, just above the top of the desert, 
with the compass symbol pointing away from the board to 
indicate “North”, as shown below. Shuffle the Equipment 
deck and place it face down to the side of the desert. 
 
Storm Deck
Equipment Deck
Adventurer Cards
7. The Adventurers Appear 
Shuffle the 6 Adventurer cards and randomly 
deal 1 to each player. Take a moment to read 
aloud your role and powers written on the 
front of your card so your teammates know 
your strengths. (More details can be found in 
“Meet the Adventurers”.) You’ll find you need 
to take advantage of each player’s special abilities in order to 
win. The front left of your card also shows your adventurer’s 
canteen. Take a meter clip and attach it to your card so that it 
covers the top mark of your canteen (4 in most instances). 
As you drink water, you’ll move this marker down. 
 
Take a pawn matching the color of your 
Adventurer card and place it on the “helicopter 
crash” tile. Put any extra Adventurer cards and 
pawns back in the box.
Set difficulty level.
Place meter in holder.
Storm
Discard
8 Sand
Markers
The
“Storm”
Crash
Site

Order of Play
The thirstiest player goes first and play continues to the 
left. On every turn, do the following things in order:
	 1. Take up to 4 actions.
	 2. Draw Storm cards equal to the Sand Storm level.
The parts of each turn are described below. Also note that every 
Adventurer card shows a quick reference guide on the back.
1. Take Up to 4 Actions
You may take up to 4 actions each turn. (You can take 0, 1, 2, 
3, or 4 actions.) Your teammates are allowed (and encouraged!) 
to give you advice on the best actions to take during your turn. 
Select any combination of the following actions:
	
 • Move 
 
• Excavate
 • Remove Sand 
• Pick Up a Part
	 	
Move
You may move your pawn to an adjacent, unblocked tile for 
1 action per move: either up, down, left or right, but never 
diagonally. You may also move between unblocked tunnel tiles 
for 1 action. (See “Tunnels”.) A tile is considered “blocked” if 
there are 2 or more Sand markers on it. You also may never 
move through the empty space containing the Sand Storm.
Remove Sand
You may remove Sand markers on your tile or on an adjacent 
tile (up, down, left, or right) for 1 action per marker. When you 
remove a Sand marker, place it back into the supply pile near 
the board.
Excavate
If your pawn is on the desert side of a tile that does not have any 
Sand markers on it, you may excavate it for 1 action. Flip the tile 
over so its “excavated” (city) side is facing up, making sure that 
any icon is in the lower right corner, with relation to North. Then 
follow the instructions for the symbol shown. (See “Special Tiles 
and Symbols”.)
Note: You may not undo an excavate action. Once you flip a 
tile, you have spent that action for your turn.
Pick Up a Part
For 1 action you may pick up a revealed Flying Machine 
part on an unblocked and excavated tile. Place the part in 
front of you. Once your team has collected all four parts, 
race to the Launch Pad where you can assemble the flying 
machine and take off for the win!
Note: If the part is on an unexcavated tile, you must 
first excavate before claiming it.
Share Water and Pass Equipment
In addition to the above actions, players on the same tile may 
share water and pass equipment cards at any time during the 
game for free. To share water, one player moves her canteen 
meter down 1 or more tick marks and the other player moves his 
water meter up the same number of tick marks. 
Note: You may never have more than the maximum amount of 
water indicated on your canteen at any time.
 
Turn Example:
The Water Carrier spends 4 actions: 
Actions 1 and 2 are Remove Sand (removing 1 Sand marker each). 
Action 3 is Move to an adjacent tile, and action 4 is Excavate, which 
flips the current tile over.
Remove Sand marker.
Move to adjacent tile.
Excavate tile.
Remove 2nd Sand marker.

Special Tiles and Symbols
Water (3 tiles) 
Three desert tiles contain a 
water symbol in the bottom 
right corner to indicate that 
there may be water hidden 
underneath. When you 
excavate a tile with this 
symbol and it reveals a well, every player with 
a pawn currently on the tile may at once (and 
only once) add two water to their canteens. You 
may want to coordinate with other members 
of your team to gather on this tile before you 
excavate to get its full benefit. 
Caution: One of the water tiles is actually a mirage! If you 
excavate this tile, no one receives water. 
Gear (12 tiles)
When you excavate a tile with this symbol in the 
bottom right corner, you’ve discovered a valuable 
piece of equipment that can help your team during 
the game. Immediately draw the top card from the Equipment 
deck, place it face up in front of you, and read its instructions. 
Keep the card until you decide to use it. Important: Equipment 
cards may only be used by the player who possesses them. 
However, they may be passed for free at any time to another 
player on the same tile. Most equipment can be played at any 
time (see specifics on each card), though as a general rule they 
cannot reverse the effects of Storm cards once they’ve been 
drawn. No hand limit.
Part Location Clues (2 tiles for each flying machine part)
Hidden under the desert are clues to the 
locations of the four flying machine parts. 
There are two clues for each part which, 
together point to the tile where the part can 
be found: One clue indicates the row (the 
East/West direction) and the other clue 
indicates the column (the North/South 
direction). When you reveal the second clue 
for any part, immediately place that part on 
the tile where the row and column intersect.
Example:
 
 
	
 When the players excavate their first clue, they have an idea 
that the solar crystal could be located somewhere in the second 
row. (Keep in mind, the storm can move the tiles around and this 
clue can shift positions.) When the second clue is excavated, 
 the players can uniquely identify the location of the part and 
 immediately place it on the indicated tile. Now, when the 
storm blows tiles around, this part will move with the tile.
Notes:
• You can’t place a part until both clues have been excavated, 
even if you have a good idea where the part may be. 
(Keep in mind, tiles may shift between turns.)
• If both clues point to the Storm’s location, place the part in 
the empty space. The next tile that moves into that position 
during the Sand Storm portion of the turn becomes the 
location where that part is found.
Row
Column
Well
Mirage
Part Location

Tunnels (3 tiles)
This ancient city featured an underground 
system of tunnels—perfect for getting around 
under protection from the desert sun. 
You may move between any two excavated 
Tunnel tiles for 1 action. However, you may 
not move to a tunnel tile that contains two or 
more Sand markers.
Tunnels also provide shelter from the effects of “Sun Beats 
Down” cards. Pawns on these excavated tiles do not have to 
drink water when a “Sun Beats Down” card is revealed. See the 
“Draw Sand Storm Cards” section for further details.
Launch Pad (1 tile)
This is an important tile as it’s the location 
all players must gather to build the flying 
machine once you have all the parts. Make 
sure to keep it clear of sand!
2. Draw Sand Storm Cards
After taking actions, you must now take on 
the role of the Sand Storm! Draw a number 
of cards from the Sand Storm draw pile equal 
to the current Sand Storm meter level. (For 
example, if the level is at 3, draw 3 cards.) 
Reveal the cards one at a time, with the wind 
rose icon at the bottom, and place them near 
the Storm discard pile. After drawing and 
applying the cards, discard them face up into 
the discard pile.
Note: You may look through the discard pile at any time 
during the game.
Wind Blows
These cards “blow” the number of tiles 
indicated by the number of squares 
on the card into the hole on the board 
(representing the eye of the sandstorm). 
Any pawns, Sand markers, and/or flying 
machine parts on the tiles move along 
with the tiles as they are shifted.
For example, if the card shows 
, shift 2 tiles to the 
left. Shift the tile that is immediately to the right of the hole 
into the hole as shown:
Shift the first tile into the “Storm.”
After shifting the first tile, do this again for the next tile 
that’s immediately to the right of the Storm.
Shift the second tile into the “Storm.”
After moving each tile, add a Sand marker to each tile 
that you just moved. Add sand to excavated tiles too—just 
like any other tile.
Add a Sand marker to each tile that was moved.

There’s no limit as to how much sand may pile 
up on a tile. However, once you stack a second 
Sand marker, that tile becomes blocked to all 
movement until there is 1 or no marker on it. 
Place the 2nd and higher (3rd, 4th, 5th, etc.) 
Sand marker with the “X” side facing up to 
indicate that the tile is impassable. 
Note: If you ever have to place a Sand marker 
on a tile that contains a flying machine part, 
first lift the part off the tile, add the marker, 
and then place the part back on top of the pile.
Dig Out
If your pawn is on a tile that has 2 or more Sand markers, 
you become “buried” in the sand and must remove Sand 
markers down to one or none before you can take any further 
actions. Teammates may also spend actions during their turns 
to help remove sand from a buried player’s tile. 
Respite from the Storm
If there isn’t a tile to move (for example if you needed to move 
another tile to the left), your team gets a respite from the storm 
for that card (or portion of card). Nothing gets moved and no 
Sand marker is placed for the missing tile.
Example:
 
 The player draws a “Wind Blows 3 North card”. He moves the 
first tile below the storm North, then moves the second tile North. 
There isn’t a third tile to move, so he stops moving tiles and adds 1 
Sand marker onto each tile that he moved. Note that because there are 
now two Sand markers on those tiles they are blocked to movement.
Buried in the Sand
If you ever have to place a Sand marker on a tile and there are 
none left in the supply, your team has been buried in the dunes 
and loses the game!
Storm Picks Up
There are 3 Storm Picks Up cards in the 
Storm deck. When you draw a Storm 
Picks Up card, move the Sand Storm 
meter up one tick mark. This is how 
many cards you will draw, starting with 
the next player’s turn. If the Sand Storm 
meter reaches the skull and crossbones, the 
Storm has become so intense that all players 
are swept away by the wind and lose the game.
Sun Beats Down
There are 4 Sun Beats Down cards in the Storm 
deck. When you draw a Sun Beats Down card, 
all players that are not currently on a tile containing 
a Tunnel or protected by a Solar Shield must drink 
1 water. (Lower the water meter 
on your canteen to the next lower 
tick mark.) If any player reaches the 
 symbol on their canteen, that 
adventurer succumbs to thirst and 
the entire game ends in defeat. 
When the Storm Draw Pile Runs Out
When the Storm draw pile runs out, immediately shuffle the 
Storm discard pile and stack the cards face down to form a new 
Storm draw pile. If this happens in the middle of a turn, continue 
drawing Storm cards as necessary from the new pile. 
Game End
Winning the Game
Get to the Launch Pad! Once you have the four necessary parts, 
all players must find their way to the Launch Pad tile where 
everyone can insert the parts into the flying machine, start the 
engine, and escape for the win. Remember: The Launch Pad tile must 
be unblocked in order to enter it and/or take off for the win. 
Losing the Game
There are 3 possible ways to lose:
	 1. Thirst: If any player reaches the 
 symbol on their canteen.
	 2. Buried: If you need to add a Sand marker to a tile but there 
aren’t any left in the supply.
	 3. Swept Away: The Sand Storm meter reaches the 
 symbol.
Passable
Blocked

Difficulty
Once you’ve won the Novice game, try starting the Sand Storm 
meter at the Normal, Elite, or Legendary difficulty settings. 
Also, try playing with a different mix of adventurers.
A Word from Gamewright
When we launched Forbidden Island in 2010, we had an inkling 
that we had created a hit game but never thought that we’d 
be prompted to make a sequel. Well, here we are a few years 
later with just that in hand. Our challenge to designer Matt 
Leacock was to create a game that would contain familiar 
elements (cooperative play, modular board), while offering 
up a completely different in-game experience. In addition, we 
wanted it to be simultaneously approachable to new players 
while upping the ante for those who felt they had mastered 
Forbidden Island. All this resulted in a fresh new game with an 
innovative set of mechanics, such as an ever-shifting board, 
individual resource management, and unique method for 
locating the flying machine parts. Hopefully we’ve achieved 
our goals and quenched your thirst for adventure!
Credits
Game by Matt Leacock
Game Illustrations by Tyler Edlin
Cover Illustration by C.B. Canga
Archeologist
The Archeologist can remove 2 Sand 
markers from any single tile for 1 action.
Explorer
The Explorer can move, remove sand, 
and may use Dune Blasters diagonally.
Water Carrier
The Water Carrier can take 2 water from already 
excavated wells for 1 action. She may also give 
water to players on adjacent tiles for free at any 
time. The Water Carrier also starts with 5 (instead 
of 4) water.
Climber
The Climber can move to blocked tiles (tiles with 2 
or more Sand markers on them). He may also take 
one other player with him whenever he moves. 
Pawns on the Climber’s tile are never buried and 
can leave the tile containing the Climber even if 
there are 2 or more Sand markers on it.
Navigator
The Navigator may move another player up to 3 
unblocked tiles per action, including tunnels. 
She can move the Explorer diagonally and can move 
the Climber through blocked tiles. When moved in 
this way, the Climber can also use his power to take 
along 1 other player—including the Navigator!
Meteorologist
The Meteorologist may spend actions to draw fewer 
Storm cards (1 card per action) at the end of her turn. 
She may also choose to spend 1 action to look at the 
top Storm cards, equal to the Storm level, and may 
place one at the bottom of the deck.
Meet the Adventurers
facebook.com
/gamewright
youtube.com
/gamewright
#forbiddendesert
Games for the Infinitely Imaginative
70 Bridge Street, Newton, MA 02458 | Tel:617-924-6006
e-mail:jester@gamewright.com | www.gamewright.com
©2013 Gamewright, a division of Ceaco Inc.
All rights reserved.

There must be a way out...