Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 FORMULA D
Pub: 	
Asmodée Editions (2008)
Page 1: 	 Rules summary front
Page 2: 	 Rules summary back
Page 3: 	 Reference sheet front
Page 4: 	 Reference sheet back
v1.3
May 2010
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 

Setup
Choose a circuit.
 Each player takes a car, 
scorecard, dashboard and gear stick.
Each player rolls the black die to 
determine his starting position; the highest 
roller receives pole position and goes first, and the other 
cars are positioned in decreasing order (re-roll ties).
Before engaging 1st gear, each player rolls the black die:
Poor Start Miss first turn, then next turn start 
without rolling again. 
2-19	
Normal Start Start normally by rolling the die 
for 1st gear.
Great Start Move car 4 spaces immediately, 
changing 1 or 2 lanes if desired. May shift to 
2nd gear next round. 
Gears
Each gear has its own die. When it is your turn, 
announce your chosen gear and move the gear stick on 
your dashboard, and roll the corresponding die. Then 
move your car forward the number of spaces you roll. 
When the move is finished, the car ‘stops’.
	
Gear	
Die Color	
Move (spaces)
	
	
1 - 2
	
	
2 - 4
	
	
4 - 8
	
	
7 - 12
	
	
11 - 20
	
	
21 - 30
Gearing Down
A player may skip 1-3 gears when changing down, but 
must lose the following brake, engine and gearbox WP:
	Gears Skipped	 Gearbox WP	 Brake WP	 Engine WP
	
1 gear	
	
2 gears	
	
3 gears	
It is not possible to skip 4 gears.
Order of Play
Each round, players move according to their car’s 
position on the track, the leader going first. If 2 cars 
are level, the driver with the highest gear goes first. If 
they are in the same gear, the car nearest to the inside 
(referring to the next or current corner) goes first.
Winning
The player whose car passes the finishing line first after 
2 laps wins the race. The race ends when all cars have 
crossed the finishing line.
Driving 
Driving through other cars or backwards is prohibited.
Driving Through Corners
The only legal routes though corners are indicated by 
arrows. A car must stop a minimum number of times, as 
indicated in the yellow box. After this number of stops, 
the car may proceed and exit the corner on its next move. 
For reference, the number in the green box is the length 
of the longest path through the corner, and the number 
in the red box is the length of the shortest path.
Overshooting
If a car passes through a corner at the end of its 
turn without making the required number of stops, it 
overshoots the corner. The number of spaces it overshot 
the corner is deducted from its tires’ Wear Points (WP).
When coming out of a corner a car must stay in the 
same lane. If the move ends in another corner, this stop 
does not count for the new corner. If blocked by another 
car, the player must brake.
When a car loses its last tire WP by overshooting, the 
car is placed on the final space of the move, pointing 
backwards. The player must turn around and drive off 
in 1st gear again next turn. If the car overshot by more 
than 1 space, it is eliminated.
If a car loses more tire WP than it has, it is eliminated.
Corner with 2 stops: If the car made no stops, it is 
eliminated.
Corner with 3 stops: If the car made no stops or only 1 
Driving on the Straights
Driving through a straight must be completed in the 
smallest number of spaces possible. 
A car may only change 2 lanes. A car may not change 
lanes and then return to the same lane in the same 
move, unless overtaking another car. 
Braking
A player may use brake WP at any time to avoid having 
to advance the full number of spaces. 
Lose 1 brake WP for each space not advanced.
If blocked by another car, move forward as far as 
possible, then count how many spaces the car would 
have moved if you had not been blocked, and lose the 
following brake and tire WP:
	
Spaces 	
Brake	
Tire
	
Remaining	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 The car is eliminated	
If the car does not have enough brake and tire WP to 
Collision
When a car ends its move on a space next to or behind 
one or more cars, roll the black die. 
If a 1 is rolled, the car loses 1 car body WP.
If a car loses its last car body WP, it is eliminated.
Motor Damage
If a player rolls a 20 in 5th gear or a 30 in 6th gear, he 
must roll the black die after his car stops. All players in 
5th or 6th gear must also roll the black die.
If 1-4 is rolled, the corresponding car loses 1 engine WP.
If a car loses its last engine WP, it is eliminated.
Damage and Road Handling
Each time a car loses a car body or engine WP, or if a 
car is eliminated, place a damage marker on the space 
where the move ended; the space becomes dangerous. 
A car passing over or landing on a dangerous space 
must roll the black die. 
If 1-4 is rolled, the car loses 1 road handling WP.
If a car loses its last road handling WP, it is eliminated.
Slipstreaming
If a car drives behind another car, is moving as fast or 
faster than the car in front, and both cars are in 4th 
gear or higher, the car may slipstream.
The car must stop directly behind another car without 
braking. He then adds 3 spaces onto his last move:
a.	Change a lane, overtake the car in front and return 	
	
to the original lane.
b.	Change a lane and move 2 spaces in a straight line.
c.	Change 2 lanes and move 1 space in a straight line.
The player may use brake WP to reduce the number of 
spaces moved. If the move brings the car up behind 
another car, he may carry on slipstreaming (and so on).
A car carried into a corner by slipstreaming loses a 
brake WP (the move is not reduced).
Braking to take advantage of slipstreaming is prohibited.
Pit Stop
At the end of the first lap a player may make a pit stop. 
There is no speed limit in the pit lanes and there is no 
need to roll the exact number to reach your pit, but you 
must roll the minimum number required to enter or 
higher using your gear die.
As soon as a car enters the pits it receives all its tire WP 
back. Then roll the black die:
1-10 	
Quick Stop 
Divide the number by 2 (round up) to find the 
number of spaces the car may move when 
leaving the pit in 4th gear. 
11-20	 Slow Stop 
The car remains in the pit until next round, 
then moves off in 4th or lower gear.

Optional Rules
Constructing Your Car
Each player may distribute 20 WP between the 6 zones 
of his car, within the following restrictions:
WP tires	
1-14	
WP car body	
WP brakes	
WP engine	
WP gearbox	
WP road handling	
Qualifying Lap with Stopwatch
All players drive a qualifying lap consecutively to set 
their starting positions. WP are not taken into account.
One player is the referee. The player whose turn it is 
places his car in the middle lane in front of the starting 
line. The referee starts a stopwatch before the player 
rolls for 1st gear, and stops it as soon as the car crosses 
the finish line. He also records the number of die throws 
the player needed to finish the lap.
The referee then adds one throw of the die for every 
full minute the player took to complete the lap, and 
one throw of the die per space that the car overshot 
any corner.
The lap is over if the player does not stop at all in 
corners where 2 or 3 stops are required (he then starts 
the race from the last position).
The car that completed the lap with the fewest die 
throws takes first position, followed by the other cars in 
decreasing order. If 2 players tie, the order is decided by 
the fastest stopwatch time.
Three-Lap Race
The player whose car passes the finishing line first after 
3 laps wins. 2 pit stops are possible during the race.
Weather Conditions 
It is recommended that the tire selection rules are used 
with the weather rules.
Roll the black die and check the weather chart before 
the qualifying laps: 
Good Weather, Changeable No effect.
Rain The laps for all drivers take place in rain. 
Roll the black die and check the weather chart before 
the actual race: 
Good Weather No effect.
Changeable Whenever a player in 5th gear rolls a 20, 
or a 30 in 6th gear, roll the black die and check the 
weather chart again.
Good Weather Conditions shifted one line upwards.
Changeable Weather stays the same.
Rain Conditions shifted one line downwards:
	
Weather	
Effect on Race
	
Good	
none (invariable) 
	
Changeable	
none
	
Rain, changeable	
rain
	
Rainy	
rain (invariable)
Rain The entire race takes place in rain. 
Effect of Rain
Collision A result of 1 or 2 (instead of 1) means a 
collision occurs.
Engine Damage Occurs when result is 1-3 (instead of 
1-4). 
Road Handling The car loses 1 road handling WP for a 
result of 1-5 (instead of 1-4).
Tire Selection
After weather has been determined, each player may fit 
special tires. 
Tires may also be changed between the qualifying lap 
and the race.
Hard Tires
Recommended on a dry track and inefficient on a wet 
track. 
If it is raining, the car moves 3 additional spaces, as 
long as at least one space in the move is within a corner.
Soft Tires
Recommended on a dry track and inefficient on a wet 
track. A driver using soft tires places 1 damage marker 
on the score card with the sun side faceup.
If the weather is changeable or good, the car can move 
1 additional space each move during qualifying and 
race laps (this is not compulsory). If the tires are not 
changed in a pit stop before the third race lap, the tire 
WP penalties for overshooting a corner are trebled.
If it is raining, the car moves 3 additional spaces each 
move during qualifying and the first 2 race laps, as long 
as at least one space in the move is within a corner. If 
the tires are not changed in a pit stop before the third 
race lap, the tire WP penalties for overshooting a corner 
are trebled.
Rain Tires
Recommended on a wet track and inefficient on a dry 
track. A driver using rain tires places 1 damage marker 
on the score card with the rain side faceup. 
If the weather is changeable or good, the tire WP 
penalties for overshooting a corner are doubled during 
qualifying and the first 2 race laps. If the tires are not 
changed in a pit stop before the third race lap, the 
penalties are trebled.
If it is raining, the car moves 1 additional space each 
move, as long as at least one space in the move is 
within a corner. 
Pit Stops
At every pit stop a player can choose one of these two 
options:
Tire Pit Stop As in the normal rules. The player can also 
change the type of tires he has fitted.
Technical Pit Stop The player can change his tires and 
regain up to 2 WP in one or two zones (except the tires). 
This 2 WP allowance applies for the entire race. In the 
next round, the car may not start in higher than 4th 
gear. A car with soft tires does not receive the bonus of 
1 additional space when leaving the pits.
Team Race
A large group with an even number of players may use 
these rules. Form teams, each with 2 players and a color.
Pit Stop Each team has 4 WP for repairs. Both players 
must decide together how to use them
Winner by Points Each car receives a number of winning 
points and the team with the highest number of total 
points wins the race:
	
Ranking	
No. of Points
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
9 and 10	
Road Races
It is recommended that the weather conditions rules are 
used with road races (if not, Julien Marcellin and his car 
should not be used).
Cars and Drivers
Each driver has a card with WPs and special features. 
All cars drive on hard tires.
All cars also have nitro fuel injection, which can be 
used once a lap after rolling the gear die and provides a 
movement bonus according to the gear used (+1 spaces 
in 1st gear, +2 in 2nd, etc); then place a damage 
marker on the score card space.
Circuit
The pits on the circuit are not used during road races.
Engine Noise: Cars ending their move in this area must 
roll the black die as a resident takes a shot at their car:
	
Black die	
Result
	
1-15	
Too Late: the shot goes wild 
	
16-18	
Grazing Shot: the car loses 1 tire WP
	
Not bad: the car loses 1 car body WP
	
Direct hit: the car loses 1 engine WP
Danger Zone: All red spaces are treated as spaces with 
damage markers.
Police Station: Every time a driver crosses the line 
record his speed (the number on the gear die x10). 
When all drivers have crossed, the fastest driver gets 2 
WP he can distribute between damaged zones on his 
car. In a tie, the first driver to pass the line receives 
the bonus.
Tunnel: Move directly between the spaces marked with 
the same number.
Checkpoint: If a race consists of several laps, each car 
receives its entire tire WP on crossing the finish line, 
plus 2 WP to distribute between damaged zones on 
his car.
v1.3

Start	
Miss first turn, then next turn start without 
rolling again. 
2-19	
Start normally by rolling the die for 1st gear.
Move car 4 spaces immediately. 
Driving
Corners
Car must stop a minimum number of times, as 
indicated in the yellow box. When coming out of a 
corner a car must stay in the same lane. 
Straights
A car may only change 2 lanes and may not return to 
the same lane in the same move, unless overtaking. 
Gearing Down
	Gears Skipped	 Gearbox WP	 Brake WP	 Engine WP
	
1 gear	
	
2 gears	
	
3 gears	
Braking
Lose 1 brake WP for each space not advanced.
If blocked by another car:
	
Spaces 	
Brake	
Tire
	
Remaining	
	
	
-2	
	
	
	
-2
	
	
 Car eliminated	
If the car does not have enough brake and tire WP to 
Overshooting 
-1 tire WP for each space overshot.
A car is eliminated if it skips more than 1 corner stop.
When a car overshoots and loses its last tire WP, place it 
backwards on its final space. The player must turn and 
drive off in 1st gear again next turn. If the car overshot 
by more than 1 space, it is eliminated.
Slipstreaming
The car behind must be as fast or faster as the car in 
front, and both cars must be in 4th gear or higher.
The car must stop directly behind another car without 
braking. He then adds 3 spaces onto his last move (he 
may use brake WP to reduce the number of spaces). If 
the move brings the car up behind another car, he may 
carry on slipstreaming (and so on).
A car carried into a corner by slipstreaming loses 1 
brake WP (move is not reduced).
Collision	
When a car ends its move on a space next to or behind 
one or more cars, roll: 
1: -1 car body WP.
Damage	
Motor Damage
If a player rolls a 20 in 5th gear or a 30 in 6th gear, all 
players in 5th or 6th gear must roll:
1-4: -1 engine WP.
Road Damage
Each time a car loses a car body or engine WP, or if a 
car is eliminated, place a damage marker on the space 
where the move ended. A car passing over or landing on 
the space must roll: 
1-4: -1 road handling WP.
Elimination
If a car lose its last engine, road handling, or car body 
WP, or more than its tire WP, it is eliminated.
Pit Stop	
Enter at any speed. Receive all tire WP back, then roll:
1-10 	
Divide the number by 2 (round up) for the 
number of spaces the car may move when 
leaving the pit in 4th gear. 
11-20	 Car remains in the pit until next round, 
then moves off in 4th or lower gear.
Quick 
Reference

All cars drive on hard tires.
All cars also have nitro fuel injection, which can be 
used once a lap after rolling the gear die and provides a 
movement bonus according to the gear used (+1 spaces 
in 1st gear, +2 in 2nd, etc); then place a damage 
marker on the score card space.
How Sweet!
Each time an opponent (male or female) 
overtakes this driver on a straight their 
speed is reduced by one square while they 
try and catch a glimpse of her. 
Weather Frog
Each time the black die is rolled to 
determine weather conditions (including 
at the beginning of the game) this driver 
is allowed to roll the die again, and the 
second result counts.
If it is raining, he only slides 1 space forward (instead 
of 3 spaces) when he stops in a corner.
Aggressive
Every time this driver is involved in a 
collision, his opponent has to roll the black 
die twice instead of once (treat each roll as 
a separate collision check).
Skidding Pro
This driver can adjust his move plus or 
minus 1 space in every corner, as he has 
perfect skid control. He loses 1 tire WP 
whenever he uses this skill.
Experienced Mechanic
This driver regains 4 WP instead of 2 WP 
every time she crosses the finishing line.
The original number of points may never 
be exceeded in any category.
Quick Off The Mark
If several drivers have the same position, 
this driver is always the first to move—even 
if one or more drivers are faster and/or are 
nearer the inside of the corner.
She also wins if there is a tie when the starting 
positions are determined using the black die.
Car Radio
Once per race this driver thinks his car 
radio plays bad music, and he throws it out 
of the window—onto a car in an adjacent 
space.
The target car then loses 1 WP in a category defined by 
rolling the black die:
	
1-4	
tires WP 
	
5-7	
brakes WP
	
8-10	
gearbox WP
	
11-13	
car body WP
	
14-17	
engine WP
	
18-20	
road handling WP
A damage marker is placed on the feature symbol to 
show that it has been used.
Pile of Scrap
Once per lap this driver can place a 
damage marker on a space as he leaves it.
A damage marker is placed on the feature 
symbol to show that it has been used.
In addition, if he lands on a space with a damage marker 
he only loses 1 road handling WP if he rolls 1 or 2.
Little Genius
This car’s features are extraordinary, and 
the engine is especially robust. In the event 
of engine failure, he only loses 1 engine 
WP if he rolls 1-3 (1-2 if it is raining).
Better Nitro
If this driver wishes, he may receive a 
bonus of 3 additional spaces every time he 
uses the nitro fuel injection.
Ace At The Wheel
Once a lap this driver may reroll the gear 
die (the second result counts). A damage 
marker is placed on the feature symbol to 
show that it has been used.
Skill 
Reference