FORTRESS AMERICA / 002
ONE NATION, UNDER SIEGE!
IN THE 21ST CENTURY, THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA UNVEILED A NEW SYSTEM OF 
SATELLITES AND POWERFUL LASERS THAT PROVIDED NOT ONLY A FLAWLESS DEFENSE AGAINST 
INTERCONTINENTAL MISSILE ATTACK, BUT ALSO A MEANS TO DESTROY ENEMY FORCES ANYWHERE 
ON THE GLOBE WITH PINPOINT ACCURACY.
OTHER NATIONS OF THE WORLD PROTESTED THIS UPSET IN BALANCE OF POWER, DESPITE THE 
UNITED STATES’ CLAIMS THAT THE LASERS WERE FOR DEFENSIVE PURPOSES ONLY. IF THE 
UNITED STATES POSSESSED THE POWER TO UNLEASH INSTANT DESTRUCTION ANYWHERE AT A 
WHIM, THE WORLD WAS AT THEIR MERCY. A GLOBAL SUMMIT WAS HELD, BUT ALL ATTEMPTS TO 
PERSUADE THE UNITED STATES TO DISMANTLE ITS LASER SYSTEM FAILED.
PROTEST GAVE WAY TO FEAR, THEN TO DECISIVE ACTION. NO SINGLE COUNTRY HAD THE 
MILITARY STRENGTH TO OPPOSE THE UNITED STATES, SO AN UNPRECEDENTED COALITION OF 
GOVERNMENTS WAS FORMED INTENT ON NEUTRALIZING THE NASCENT LASER SYSTEM. BELIEVING 
THAT THE UNITED STATES MIGHT BE LESS DISPOSED TO USE THEIR LASERS ON THEIR OWN 
SOIL, IT WAS DETERMINED THAT A SIMULTANEOUS INVASION OF NORTH AMERICA FROM THREE 
DIRECTIONS HAD THE BEST CHANCE FOR SUCCESS; THE ASIAN’S PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC WOULD 
ATTACK FROM THE WEST, THE CENTRAL AMERICAN FEDERATION FROM THE SOUTH, AND THE EURO-
SOCIALIST PACT FROM THE EAST. THE INVADERS HOPE TO STRIKE QUICKLY ENOUGH TO ACHIEVE 
THEIR GOAL BEFORE SUFFERING TOO MANY LOSSES. EVERY ARMY DREADS FIGHTING A WAR ON TWO 
FRONTS – THE UNITED STATES IS ABOUT TO FACE THREE. WILL FORTRESS AMERICA SURVIVE?
OVERVIEW
In Fortress America, the United States must defend itself 
from three deadly invading armies: the Asian People’s 
Alliance from the West, the Central American Federation 
from the South, and the Euro-Socialist Pact from the 
East. In this remake of the classic game, players take on 
either the role of the United States, struggling to protect 
itself from foreign threat, or the role of one or more of the 
invading armies, fighting battle after battle to acquire 
important territories.
If the invading forces claim enough U.S. cities, the United 
States’ defense is broken and the nation falls. But if the 
United States can protect its cities for long enough, the 
invading forces fail to uproot the United States and their 
incursion is ended.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The U.S. Player and the Invaders have different goals that 
they must complete to win the game.
U.S. Victory: During the game, the U.S. Player works 
to protect his cities long enough to win the game by 
advancing the turn marker to the “U.S. Victory” space. The 
U.S. Player can also win if all of the Invading armies are 
destroyed or the Invaders collectively surrender.
Invader Victory: The Invaders win the game if 18 city 
miniatures are on the captured city track at the end of 
the U.S. Player’s turn. If the Invaders win, they may 
then determine which individual Invader is the overall 
winner by using the “Individual Invader Victory Variant” 
described on page 22.

COMPONENTS
This Rulebook
1 Game Map
4 Reference Sheets
1 Graveyard Sheet
13 Dice, including:
4 Red Six-Sided Dice
4 White Eight-Sided Dice
4 Blue Ten-Sided Dice
1 Black Ten-Sided Die 
240 Normal Plastic Figures, including:
96 Infantry (in 4 player colors)
48 Hovertanks (in 4 player colors)
36 Mobile Units (in 4 player colors)
36 Helicopters (in 4 player colors)
24 Bombers (in 4 player colors)
65 Special U.S. Plastic Figures, including:
30 City Miniatures
24 Partisans
11 Laser Miniatures
55 Cards, including:
31 Partisan Cards
24 Invader Cards (8 per Invader)
90 Cardboard Control Markers, including:
35 Western Invader Markers
30 Southern Invader Markers
25 Eastern Invader Markers
11 Cardboard Targeting Markers
1 Cardboard Turn Marker
3 Cardboard Foothold Overlays
COMPONENT 
DESCRIPTIONS
The following sections briefly describe and identify each 
component of Fortress America.
GAME MAP
This map depicts the 
territories that the U.S. Player 
must fight to protect as well 
as the invasion zones in 
which the invading units 
enter the game. The map 
also features the U.S. turn 
track and the captured city track for players to monitor the 
current state of the game.
REFERENCE SHEETS
The reference sheets contain 
important lists and charts that 
players will want to frequently 
refer to during the game.
GRAVEYARD SHEET
This sheet is where players 
place destroyed invading units. 
The Invaders have a finite supply 
of units, so it’s important that 
their destroyed units are kept 
separate from those units in an 
Invader’s reserves.
DICE
The red, white, and blue dice are used to 
resolve combat when military units fire. 
The black die is used by the U.S. Player to 
resolve laser firing.
PLASTIC FIGURES
Each of these figures represents 
an important asset that players 
will use during the game. Most 
of the figures represent military 
units which are placed on the 
board to indicate the location 
of these units. The game also 
includes laser miniatures and city miniatures which are 
used to track those assets on the game board.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 004
C
FOOTHOLD OVERLAYS
These overlays are only used with 
the “Invader Card Variant” described 
on page 22. Each one indicates a 
territory on the map that the Invaders 
have turned into an invasion zone.
BEFORE THE FIRST GAME
Before playing for the first time, carefully punch out the 
cardboard components. Then assemble the helicopter units 
and laser miniatures as shown in the sidebar at left.
SETUP
Follow these steps before each game of Fortress America.
1. CHOOSE FORCES
Before playing Fortress America, players choose one player 
to controls the U.S. forces. If players cannot agree on 
which forces each player controls, it should be determined 
randomly. Each remaining player is an Invader, in control of 
one or more of the three invading forces:
	
Western Invader	
Southern Invader	
Eastern Invader	
The number of invading forces one player controls depends 
on the number of players. The distribution is described below.
TWO-PLAYER GAME
Player 1 is the Western Invader, Southern Invader, and 
Eastern Invader
Player 2 is the U.S. Player
THREE-PLAYER GAME
Player 1 is the Western Invader and the Eastern Invader
Player 2 is the Southern Invader
Player 3 is the U.S. Player
FOUR-PLAYER GAME
Player 1 is the Western Invader
Player 2 is the Southern Invader
Player 3 is the Eastern Invader
Player 4 is the U.S. Player
PARTISAN AND INVADER CARDS
The partisan cards are used by 
the U.S. Player to determine which 
reinforcements he receives each turn.
Invader cards are only used if 
playing with the “Invader Card 
Variant” described on page 22.
CONTROL MARKERS
These cardboard markers are used by 
players to declare attacks on the map 
and to indicate an Invader’s control of 
a territory. Each control marker has a 
“Combat” side and a “Control” side.
TARGETING MARKERS
These cardboard markers are used by the U.S. 
Player to ensure that he doesn’t fire more than 
one laser at a single territory on a given turn.
TURN MARKER
This marker is used to keep track of how many 
turns have elapsed. If the U.S. Player controls at 
least 13 city territories at the end of his turn for 
10 turns, he wins the game.
Fully Assembled 
Laser Miniature
Helicopter and 
Laser Assembly
Helicopters: Place part A onto 
part B as shown in the diagram 
to the right.
Lasers: Place part A into part B 
and fit the pegs of part C into the 
holes in part B as shown in the 
diagram below.

He then places all 60 of his green figures on the board. He 
does this by placing two units of any type (not necessarily 
the same type) in each of the 30 city territories. The 
partisans and laser miniatures do not start the game on 
the board. The U.S. Player’s plastic figures that are not 
currently on the board are referred to as his reserves.
After the U.S. Player has placed his units, each Invader 
takes the following from his total number of units:
8 Infantry Units
3 Mobile Units
4 Hovertank Units
3 Helicopter Units
2 Bomber Units
Each Invader distributes these 20 units throughout his six 
invasion zones and leaves the remaining 40 units in front 
of himself. These remaining 40 units are referred to as the 
Invader’s reserves. When placing units in invasion zones, 
he may place them in any combination but cannot place 
more than five units in a single invasion zone. He does not 
need to place units in all of his invasion zones.
2. DISTRIBUTE COMPONENTS
Each player takes the following components and places 
them in front of himself:
60 Green Plastic Figures
65 Grey Plastic Figures
11 Targeting Markers
1 Graveyard Sheet
31 Partisan Cards
WESTERN INVADER
60 Yellow Plastic Figures
35 Western Invader Control Markers
SOUTHERN INVADER
60 Blue Plastic Figures
30 Southern Invader Control Markers
EASTERN INVADER
60 Red Plastic Figures
25 Eastern Invader Control Markers
Each player shuffles any cards he received and places them 
facedown in a deck near his reference sheet. Invader cards 
and foothold overlays are returned to the box unless players 
are using the “Invader Card Variant” described on page 22.
3. SET UP MAP
Unfold the map and place it in the center of the playing 
area. Place the turn marker on the “1” space on the U.S. 
turn track. The U.S. Player sets up first and then the 
Invaders, as listed below.
First, the U.S. Player places a city miniature in each of the 30 
city territories, covering up the city icon with the miniature.
	
A City Miniature	
A City Icon
Types of 
Military Units
These are the different types of military units and 
their corresponding icons:
	
Infantry	
Partisans
	
Mobile Units	
Hovertanks
	
Helicopters	
Bombers

FORTRESS AMERICA / 006
Anatomy of the Game Map
Sectors: Sectors are large sections of the map, divided by blue lines. 
There are a total of five sectors:
1.	 Western Sector
2.	 Rocky Mountains Sector
3.	 Southern Sector
4.	 Plains Sector
5.	 Eastern Sector
Territories: Each sector is divided into several territories. Each 
territory is divided from others by red lines (or blue lines where the 
border coincides with the division between sectors). The diagram 
above shows examples of the different types of territories:
6.	 Territory: A territory without any other attribute.
7.		 Mountain Territory: A territory with a dark brown background.
8.	 City Territory: A territory that contains the name of a major 
city and a city icon:
9.		 Agricultural Resource Territory: A territory that contains a 
Agriculture Resource Icon:
10.	 Mineral Resource Territory: A territory that contains a 
Mineral Resource Icon:
11.	 Oil Resource Territory: A territory that contains an Oil 
Resource Icon:
Any territory that meets the description of more than one type of 
territory is considered to be each of those types. For example, a 
territory with both a city icon and a dark brown background is 
considered to be both a city territory and a mountain territory.
Invasion Zones: Invader’s units are placed in an invasion zone before 
they can be moved to a territory. Each Invader has six invasion zones:
12.	Western Invader’s invasion zones.
13.	 Southern Invader’s invasion zones.
14.	 Eastern Invader’s invasion zones.
Other Areas: Other features of the game map are described below.
15.	 U.S. Turn Track: This track shows players how many turns 
the U.S. Player has taken and how close he is to winning.
16.	 Captured City Track: This track shows how many city territories 
are controlled by Invaders and how close they are to winning.
17.	 Lakes and Oceans: The blue areas have no effect on the game. 
Units cannot occupy or move through these areas.

GAME TURNS
Fortress America is played over a series of turns. Each 
player completes his turn in full before the next player 
takes his turn, in the order described below.
ORDER OF GAME TURNS
Regardless of the number of players, the order of turns is 
always the same:
1.	 Western Invader
2.	 Southern Invader
3.	 Eastern Invader
4.	 U.S. Player
After the U.S. Player takes his turn, the order starts again 
from the beginning with the Western Invader. If one player 
is controlling more than one Invader, he completes the turn 
for each Invader separately.
ACTION SEQUENCE OF A TURN
During a player’s turn, he performs the following actions 
in order:
1.	 Reinforcements: The Invaders add military units 
and the U.S. Player places one laser and plays 
partisan cards.
2.	 Declare Battles: The player indicates the territories 
he intends to conquer.
3.	 Maneuvers: The player moves his units, often to get 
them into position to invade declared territories.
4.	 Fire Lasers (U.S. Player only): The U.S. Player 
fires his lasers at enemy units.
5.	 Combat: The player resolves battles in declared 
territories that contain defending units.
6.	 Invasion: The player moves his units again, 
often to secure declared territories that were left 
undefended or declared territories in which all of 
its defending units were destroyed.
7.	 Supply Check (Invaders only): The Invader checks 
to make sure each of his military units is still 
connected to an invasion zone by a supply line.
8.	 Capture Territories: The player takes control of 
the territories he has conquered.
Each of these actions are described in more detail in the 
following sections.
1. REINFORCEMENTS ACTION
The Reinforcements Action is the part of a player’s turn 
when he places military units on the board. The Invaders 
resolve the Reinforcements Action differently than the U.S. 
Player, as described in the following sections.
INVADER REINFORCEMENTS ACTION
During his first turn (while the turn marker is on the “1” 
space), each Invader skips his Reinforcements Action.
Starting with his second turn, each time an Invader 
resolves his Reinforcements Action, he takes any eight units 
from his reserves and distributes them among his invasion 
zones. He is free to choose any type of units from among 
his reserves, and he may place them in any combination in 
his invasion zones. He is not required to place units in all 
of his invasion zones.
When placing units in invasion zones, a player cannot have 
more than five units in an invasion zone (see “The Five 
Units per Territory Limit” below). If each of an Invader’s 
invasion zones has five military units in it, he cannot add 
any more military units to the board during this turn.
If an Invader has no units remaining in his reserves, he 
skips his Reinforcements Action. 
The Five Units per 
Territory Limit
When placing or moving units during the game, 
no more than five units can ever be in the same 
territory or invasion zone at the same time at the 
end of an action. A territory or invasion zone can 
temporarily contain six or more units while units 
are moving, but the number of units must be 
back down to five or less by the end of the action. 
Note: laser miniatures and city miniatures are not 
counted as military units.
The single exception to this rule is when a player 
uses a bomber’s “bombing” ability, which is 
described on page 13. This ability allows a player 
to place bombers in a territory occupied by enemy 
units. Even in this case, the player using the 
“bombing” ability can only move a maximum of 
five bombers into a single territory.
TOP SECRET

FORTRESS AMERICA / 008
U.S. PLAYER REINFORCEMENTS ACTION 
During the Reinforcements Action, the U.S. Player does 
each of the following steps in order.
1.	 Take a laser miniature not yet on the board and 
place it in any U.S.-controlled city territory that 
does not already contain a laser miniature.
	
A Laser Miniature	
A Laser Icon
2.	 Draw and resolve two cards from the partisan 
deck, one card at a time. Then, reveal and resolve 
all bonus Partisan cards the U.S. Player gained 
during the previous turn, one card at a time.
RESOLVING PARTISAN CARDS
Each partisan card contains instructions for the U.S. 
Player. Many of the cards also contain one or more icons 
along the bottom to provide more information about the 
card’s effects.
When resolving a partisan card, often the text will 
mention a territory or a category of territories, such as:
A specific city territory. (For example, “Minneapolis.”)
A mountain territory.
Territories in a specific sector. (For example, “…a 
Western Sector territory.”)
Territories adjacent to a specific city territory. (For 
example, “…adjacent to St. Louis.”) See page 12 for a 
description of adjacency.
A resource territory. (For example, “…four separate 
agricultural resource territories.”)
Partisan cards that mention a specific resource territory 
will feature the corresponding resource icon (agricultural, 
mineral, or oil) on the bottom of the card. This is to easily 
identify those territories on the game map.
When a partisan card specifies a territory or category of 
territories, the card’s effects can only be resolved in a 
territory or in territories meeting that specification.
Example of Invader’s 
Reinforcements Action
FOR OFFICIAL 
USE ONLY
During the Southern Invader’s second turn he performs the 
following steps as his Reinforcements Action:
1.	 He selects any eight units from his reserves.
2.	 He then distributes those units among his invasion 
zones. After adding units to an invasion zone, the total 
number of units in that zone must be five or less.
3.	 He cannot add any units to an invasion zone that 
already has five units.

Partisan Cards and Unit Placement: A common effect 
of partisan cards is to instruct the U.S. Player to place 
military units on the game map. If the partisan card has 
military unit icons on the bottom, they indicate units that 
the U.S. Player must place on the board (if possible). For 
each icon on the card, the U.S. Player takes one unit of the 
corresponding type from among his reserves and places it 
in the territory (or in one of the territories) indicated by the 
card text. However, the U.S. Player can only place units 
in a territory that meets at least one of the following 
placement requirements:
It is a friendly territory (a territory that contains 
neither an Invader’s control marker nor any Invader 
units, see “Friendly Territories, Occupied Enemy 
Territories, and Unoccupied Enemy Territories” on 
page 11).
It is an unoccupied enemy territory (a territory that 
contains a control marker but no Invader units.) Note: 
city territories that contain a control marker cannot 
be chosen by the U.S. Player when placing units.
When placing units, the U.S. Player cannot place them in 
any of the following:
An invasion zone.
An occupied enemy territory (a territory that contains 
Invader units).
An unoccupied enemy-controlled city territory. 
Anatomy of a 
Partisan Card
1.	 Card Story: This provides a description of the 
events occuring as the card is resolved.
2.	 Card Effect: This provides the U.S. Player 
instructions on how to resolve the card.
3.	 Icons: These provide a reference to types of 
units to place on the board and/or the type of 
resource territory specified by the card effect.
Resolving Partisan 
Cards
The U.S. Player must resolve the card effect of a 
partisan card as fully as possible. For example, if a 
card directs him to destroy or retreat two invading 
units in a territory, and only one unit occupies that 
territory, he must still destroy or retreat that one unit.
The U.S. Player will find that partisan cards can 
sometimes be fully resolved, sometimes be partially 
resolved, and sometimes cannot be resolved. 
For example, if the U.S. Player is resolving the above 
card and he controls three unoccupied agricultural 
resource territories and there is one unoccupied 
enemy-controlled agricultural resource territory, 
the card can be fully resolved. The U.S. Player may 
place one partisan in each of those territories, as 
each one meets the placement requirements.
However, if the U.S. Player controls three 
agricultural resource territories, two of which 
contain four units and one of which contains five 
units, and all other agricultural resource territories 
contain enemy units, the card can onle be partially 
resolved. The U.S. Player places as many of the 
troops as he can, in this case two. He places one in 
each of the friendly agricultural resource territories 
that contain four units. He cannot place units in 
occupied enemy territories, nor can he place them in 
the friendly territory that already contains five units.
Finally, if the U.S. Player controls one agricultural 
resource territory which contains five units and 
all other agricultural resource territories contain 
enemy units, the card cannot be resolved. The U.S. 
Player cannot place any of the units. The U.S. Player 
cannot draw a replacement card for a partisan card 
that cannot be resolved.
CONFIDENTIAL

FORTRESS AMERICA / 010
In cases where more than one territory is both indicated 
by the text and meets the requirements for placement, the 
player chooses which territory to use when placing the 
unit. (For example, if the card text mentioned the Southern 
Sector, the U.S. Player can chose any territory in that sector 
that meets the requirements for placement.)
The U.S. Player chooses the order in which he places 
the military units indicated by the card. As always, the 
U.S. Player cannot have more than five units in a single 
territory at the end of the Reinforcements Action. If all 
territories mentioned on a partisan card that meet the 
requirements for placement have five units already in 
them, any further military unit icons on the card are 
disregarded. Reinforcements placed on the map can move 
and attack during this turn.
If the U.S. Player does not have a military unit of the 
appropriate type in his reserves, he simply disregards 
that icon.
PLACE UNITS SEPARATELY WHERE POSSIBLE
When the U.S. Player is resolving a partisan card that says, 
“Place units separately where possible,” the player must 
place at least one unit in each territory indicated on the 
card that meets the requirements for placement, if he can. 
Afterwards, any remaining units the U.S. Player has to 
distribute can be placed in those territories as he wishes.
If the number of units he is placing is less than the number 
of territories that meet the requirements for placement, the 
player chooses which territories do not receive a military 
unit but cannot place more than one unit in a territory.
BONUS PARTISAN CARDS
During the Capture Territories Action of his turn, the U.S. 
Player will potentially receive one or more bonus partisan 
cards. These cards must be resolved during his next 
Reinforcements Action after he draws and resolves his first 
two partisan cards. They are described in more detail in the 
“Capture Territories Action” section on page 21.
DISCARDING PARTISAN CARDS
Most partisan cards instruct the player to discard them 
immediately after being resolved. Regardless of when they 
are discarded, the U.S. Player does so by placing them 
faceup near the partisan deck, stacked into a discard pile. 
If the partisan deck runs out, shuffle the discard pile and 
place it facedown to form a new partisan deck.
2. DECLARE BATTLES ACTION
After the Reinforcements Action of each turn, the player 
must declare which territories he plans to attack (if any) 
during his Combat Action (described on page 15) and/or 
invade during his Invasion Action (described on page 18). 
Each of these territories is considered a declared territory.
An Invader indicates a declared territory by placing one of 
his own control markers in the territory with the “Combat” 
side up. Declared territories can always be identified by 
control markers with the “Combat” side faceup.
The “Combat” Side of a Western Invader Control Marker
The U.S. Player indicates a declared territory by flipping the 
control marker in that territory to the “Combat” side. He can 
also declare battle in an Invader’s invasion zone by placing 
one of that Invader’s control markers in that zone with the 
Battles are declared only against enemy territories 
(either occupied or unoccupied) — never against friendly 
territories. See “Friendly Territories, Occupied Enemy 
Territories, and Unoccupied Enemy Territories” on page 11 
for definitions of these territories.
Other Invaders: 
Friend or Foe?
Even though Invaders are working together to defeat 
the U.S. Player, each Invader treats the other Invaders 
as enemies for purposes of combat and movement.
Unless players are using the “Individual Invader 
Victory Variant” (described on page 22), there is 
no reason for an Invader to attack another Invader. 
If players are using that variant (or if an Invader 
decides to attack another Invader regardless), 
combat is handled the same as when an Invader 
attacks a U.S. Player.
EYES ONLY

Friendly Territories, Occupied Enemy 
Territories, and Unoccupied Enemy Territories
Many game effects depend upon knowing if a territory is a 
friendly territory or an enemy territory and if that territory is 
occupied or not.
For the U.S. Player, a friendly territory is a territory that contains 
neither an Invader’s control marker nor any Invader units. It 
may or may not contain U.S. military units. This territory may 
also be referred to as a U.S. Player-controlled territory.
A Friendly Territory for the U.S. Player
An unoccupied enemy territory is one that contains an 
Invader’s control marker, but does not contain any military 
units belonging to an Invader.
An Unoccupied Enemy Territory for the U.S. Player
An occupied enemy territory is one that contains both an 
Invader’s control marker and military units belonging to an 
Invader. Both unoccupied enemy territories and occupied 
enemy territories may be referred to as simply an enemy 
territory or an Invader-controlled territory.
An Occupied Enemy Territory for the U.S. Player
Note: At no point during the game should an Invader’s 
military unit ever be in a territory that does not have a 
control marker.
For an Invader, a friendly territory is a territory that contains 
one of his own control markers and may or may not contain 
his own military units. This may also be referred to as an 
Invader-controlled territory. (It may also be referred to more 
specifically depending on which Invader’s control marker 
is in the territory. For example, a territory with the Western 
Invader’s control marker may be referred to as a Western 
Invader-controlled territory.)
Note: During an Invader’s turn, declared territories are not 
friendly territories, even though they have his control markers in 
them. An Invader’s invasion zones are always treated as friendly 
territories, even though they do not contain control markers. 
A Friendly Territory for the Western Invader
An unoccupied enemy territory is one that does not contain one 
of the Invader’s control markers and does not contain another 
player’s military units. On the Invader’s turn, all declared 
territories that do not contain another player’s military units 
are also considered unoccupied enemy territories.
An Unoccupied Enemy Territory for the Western Invader
An occupied enemy territory is one that does not contain one 
of the Invader’s control markers, but does contain another 
player’s military units. On the Invader’s turn, all declared 
territories that contain another player’s military units are also 
considered occupied enemy territories.
An Occupied Enemy Territory for the Western Invader

FORTRESS AMERICA / 012
3. MANEUVERS ACTION
After the Declare Battles Action, players move their military 
units into position for combat in declared territories.
COMBAT POSITION
When a player declares an attack, he must have units in 
combat position by the end of his Maneuvers Action. Each 
player should be familiar with the rules regarding moving 
units during the Maneuvers Action to know if his units 
can be moved to combat position.
To be in combat position, an attacking unit must be 
adjacent to the declared territory. Adjacency is defined in 
“Adjacent Territories” above. Exception: Bombers have 
a special ability (“bombing”) that allows them to be 
in combat position while in an enemy territory. This is 
discussed in more detail on page 13.
Special Combat Position Rules: If the units in a territory 
are in combat position with more than one declared 
territory, a player must choose which of those declared 
territories each unit will attack (or choose that the unit 
will not attack this turn). He may divide his units to attack 
more than one of those declared territories, but each 
unit can participate in only one battle per turn, so before 
beginning his Combat Action, the player must announce 
which territory each unit will attack and place the unit 
near the declared territory’s border.
If a player has units in more than one territory that are 
in combat position to attack the same territory, he can 
use any combination of those units to attack the territory. 
However, a player cannot resolve more than one battle in 
the same declared territory per turn and each unit can only 
participate in one battle per turn.
MOVING UNITS DURING THE MANEUVERS ACTION
The Unit Specifications Chart on page 15 (and on each 
reference sheet) lists the maneuvers movement value for 
each type of unit. During his Maneuvers Action, a player can 
move each of his units on the board to an adjacent territory 
a number of times equal to that value. (For example, a 
hovertank can move only once to an adjacent territory.)
At the end of the Maneuvers Action, each unit must be in a 
friendly territory (unless using the helicopter’s “scouting” 
ability and/or the bomber’s “bombing” ability, described on 
the next page) and there can be no more than five units 
in a single territory (unless using the bomber’s “bombing” 
ability). Note: an Invader always treats his own invasion 
zones as friendly territories for purposes of movement.
Infantry and partisans cannot move during the Maneuvers 
Action (except when a player uses a mobile unit’s 
“transport” ability as described on page 13). Mobile units 
and hovertanks can only move once per Maneuvers Action. 
As a result, they must always move to a friendly adjacent 
territory because they must be in a friendly territory at the 
end of the Maneuvers Action.
Helicopters, bombers, and mobile units each have special 
rules regarding their use during the Maneuvers Action, as 
described in the following sections.
HELICOPTERS
Helicopters have a maneuvers movement value of “2,” 
allowing them to be moved twice during the Maneuvers 
Action. For the first of these two movements, a player can 
move the helicopter into an adjacent territory that is enemy-
controlled and/or a territory that already has five military 
units in it, provided that when the helicopter completes its 
movement during this action, it is in a friendly territory and 
no more than five units are in that territory. (The helicopter 
is “flying over” the first territory in this case.)
Helicopter’s “Scouting” Ability: Helicopters have the 
special ability to quickly invade an enemy territory 
Adjacent 
Territories
Territories that share a common border are adjacent 
to each other. An invasion zone is adjacent to any 
territory with which it shares a common border and 
is adjacent to any other invasion zone with which it 
shares a common border.
Territories that meet at a point are not adjacent 
to each other. An invasion zone is not considered 
adjacent to a territory that it meets at a point.
Example: Los Angeles is adjacent to San Francisco, 
but it is not adjacent to Las Vegas. Invasion zone A 
is adjacent to invasion zone B and to San Francisco, 
but it is not adjacent to Los Angeles.

provided no military is there to oppose it. When a player 
uses the “scouting” ability, the helicopter remains in an 
unoccupied enemy territory at the end of the Maneuvers 
Action, provided the helicopter can reach the territory 
using its movement value of “2.” He can only do this if 
the territory is both a declared territory and not a city 
territory. A helicopter cannot remain in an enemy’s city 
territory at the end of the Maneuvers Action, even if it is 
unoccupied. (Note: “scouting” does not allow a helicopter 
to end this action in an occupied enemy territory.) When 
a player uses this ability, the helicopter cannot move or 
attack for the rest of the turn. The player should turn the 
helicopter upside down to serve as a reminder.
BOMBERS
Bombers have a maneuvers movement value of “4,” which 
allows them to be moved four times during the Maneuvers 
Action. For the first three of these four movements, a player 
can move the bomber into an adjacent territory that is 
enemy-controlled and/or a territory that already has five 
military units in it, provided that when the bomber completes 
its movement during this action, it is in a friendly territory 
and no more than five units are in that territory. (The bomber 
is “flying over” the previous territories in this case.)
Bomber’s “Bombing” Ability: Bombers have the special 
ability to quickly attack units in enemy territory. When a 
player uses the “bombing” ability, the bomber remains in 
an occupied enemy territory at the end of the Maneuvers 
Action, provided the bomber can reach the territory using its 
movement value of “4.” He can only do this if it is a declared 
territory. (Note: “bombing” does not allow a bomber to 
complete this action in an unoccupied enemy territory.)
When a player uses the “bombing” ability, the bomber can 
be in an occupied enemy territory at the end of the action 
even if that territory already contains five enemy units. 
This is the only case in which more than five military units 
can occupy a single territory at the end of an action. Even 
in this case, the player cannot move more than five of his 
own bombers to a single territory using their special ability.
All bombers that have moved to a territory using this 
ability must attack when resolving the combat in this 
declared territory. They can either attack alone or in 
conjunction with other units in combat position. 
MOBILE UNITS
Mobile Unit’s “Transport” Ability: Mobile units have the 
special ability to transport infantry and partisans units 
from one territory to another. Each time a player moves 
a mobile unit to a territory during his Maneuvers Action, 
he can choose to move either an infantry or partisan unit 
to the same territory at the same time. The infantry or 
partisan unit must have been in the same territory as the 
mobile unit before it moved, and each mobile unit can only 
move one unit per turn using this ability.
“Bombing” Ability 
1.	 During his Declare Battles Action, the 
Western Invader places a control marker in 
this territory with the “Combat” side faceup.
2.	 The bomber “flies over” three enemy-occupied 
territories with the first three of its four moves.
3.	 The Western Invader chooses to use the 
“bombing” ability and moves it to an 
occupied enemy territory.
During combat in this territory, this bomber must 
be among the units that attack the territory.
“Scouting” Ability 
1.	 During his Declare Battles Action, the 
Western Invader places a control marker in 
this territory with the “Combat” side faceup.
2.	 The helicopter “flies over” an enemy-occupied 
territory with the first of its two moves.
3.	 The Western Invader chooses to use the 
helicopter’s “scouting” ability and moves it to 
an unoccupied enemy territory.
4.	 He then flips the helicopter upside down to 
serve as a reminder that it can no longer move 
or attack during this turn.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 014
GENERAL MANEUVERS ACTION RULES
For each declared territory, if a player does not already have 
a military unit in combat position with that territory, he 
must move one or more units into combat position with 
that declared territory.
Players can move military units into friendly territories.
Players cannot move military units into enemy territories, 
with the following exceptions:
When players are moving helicopters or bombers 
they can (if they wish) “fly over” enemy territories — 
occupied or unoccupied — provided that no units are 
still in an enemy territory at the end of the Maneuvers 
Action (unless the unit is “scouting” or “bombing”).
When a player uses a helicopter’s “scouting” ability, the 
helicopter moves into an unoccupied enemy territory 
and remains there at the end of this Maneuvers Action.
When a player uses a bomber’s “bombing” ability, the 
bomber moves into an occupied enemy territory and 
remains there at the end of this Maneuvers Action.
Each player treats other player’s invasion zones as enemy 
territories. Each Invader treats his own invasion zones as a 
4. FIRE LASERS ACTION (U.S. ONLY)
After the U.S. Player completes his Maneuvers Action, he 
uses lasers to attack his opponent’s military units. Invaders 
always skip this action and proceed directly to the Combat 
Action after the Maneuvers Action.
During this action, the U.S. Player first places a targeting 
marker in each territory that contains a laser miniature. For 
each targeting marker, he then performs the following steps:
1.	 Choose one of the Invader’s units of any type 
in any territory (or invasion zone) that does not 
contain a targeting marker.
2.	 Move the targeting marker from the laser 
miniature’s territory to the territory containing the 
chosen Invader unit.
3.	 Roll the black laser die. If the result is “5” or more, 
the Invader’s unit is destroyed. The U.S. Player 
removes the unit from the board and places it on 
the graveyard sheet.
If the result is “4” or less, the target is unaffected 
and remains on the board.
After completing these steps, the player then chooses another 
laser miniature with a targeting marker in its territory and 
performs the same steps for that laser. He continues to do so 
until there are no longer any laser miniatures in the same 
territory as a targeting marker. The U.S. Player then removes 
all of his targeting markers from the board.
Fire Lasers Example
1.	 The U.S. Player chooses a bomber in a territory 
that does not contain a targeting marker.
2.	 He moves the targeting marker from the 
territory containing the laser miniature to the 
territory containing the bomber.
3.	 He rolls the black laser die and gets a result of 
“7,” indicating that the target is destroyed.
4.	 He moves the bomber to the graveyard sheet.
 “Transport” Ability 
ExamplE
1.	 When the Western Invader moves his mobile 
unit to an adjacent territory, he decides to use 
the mobile unit’s “transport” ability.
2.	 He chooses an infantry from the same territory 
and moves it along with the mobile unit.
3.	 He cannot move the other infantry unless he 
first moves the other mobile unit and uses the 
“transport” ability again.

5. COMBAT ACTION
After the Fire Lasers Action (or the Maneuvers Action for 
Invaders), the player resolves battles in all of the occupied 
enemy territories which are declared territories. He can 
resolve these in any order he wishes, but each battle is 
resolved in full before moving on to the next one. Only 
one battle is resolved in each declared territory. Players do 
not resolve battles in unoccupied enemy territories, even if 
they are declared territories.
The player currently taking his turn is the attacker and 
the units he is using to attack the territory are referred to 
as attacking units. All players must know which units are 
attacking before combat begins. The player whose territory 
is being attacked is the defender and all of his units in the 
territory are referred to as defending units.
Each battle is resolved in two parts. During the first part, the 
defender fires and during the second part, the attacker fires.
DEFENDER FIRES
During the first part of each battle, the defending units 
are referred to as the firing units and the attacking units 
are the targeted units. The order in which units fire is 
determined by their class. The classes of military units are 
explained in the sidebar to the right.
The defender’s units fire in the following order:
1.	 Air Units 
2.	 Mechanized Units
3.	 Foot Units
Classes of 
Military Units
Throughout the Combat Action, the rules refer to 
the class of military units. These classes are:
•	 Air units: The class of military units that 
includes helicopters and bombers.
•	 Mechanized units: The class of military units 
that includes mobile units and hovertanks.
•	 Foot units: The class of military units that 
includes infantry and partisans.
Unit Specification Chart
This chart from the reference sheet provides the class, combat 
die, maneuver movement rating, invasion movement rating, 
and the order of casualties for each type of military unit.
It also includes information for firing lasers, although lasers 
are only fired during the Fire Lasers Action, never during the 
Combat Action.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 016
ATTACKER FIRES
During the second part of each battle, the attacking units are 
referred to as the firing units and the defending units are the 
targeted units.
The attacker’s units fire in the following order:
1.	 Air Units
2.	 Mechanized Units
3.	 Foot Units
After the Attacker Fires part of combat is finished, the 
battle is complete.
FIRING UNITS
To resolve the attack for a class of units, a player collects 
one combat die for each firing unit belonging to that class. 
The Unit Specification Chart on his reference sheet lists 
the appropriate combat die for each type of firing unit. 
Players are not limited to the number of dice included in 
the game. If more dice are needed for a roll, the player 
simply rolls all the dice he can, records the results, and 
rerolls any other dice needed. 
The red square corresponds to the red six-sided die.
The white diamond corresponds to the white eight-sided die.
The blue circle corresponds to the blue ten-sided die.
For example, when air units are firing, the player finds 
the combat dice that correspond to helicopters (the white 
eight-sided die) and to bombers (the blue ten-sided die).
After the player has collected the appropriate combat 
dice, he rolls the dice and resolves the effect based upon 
the result:
Hit
Combined Arms Hit
No icon
Miss
Retreat Defender/Disengage Attacker
Miss: If the die result has no icon, there is no effect.
Hit: The player who rolled the die destroys one of the 
targeted units according to the firing unit’s “Order of 
Casualties.” (See “Order of Casualties” below.) A destroyed 
Invader unit is placed on the graveyard sheet and cannot 
be used again during the game. A destroyed U.S. unit is 
returned to the U.S. Player’s reserves.
Combat Dice for 
Partisans
Normally, when one of the U.S. Player’s partisan 
units is firing he would roll the red six-sided die as 
its combat die. However, when one (and only one)
partisan unit is the only firing unit, the U.S. Player 
rolls the white eight-sided die instead. This is true 
even if there were other firing units at the start of the 
battle, but no other firing units remain. (Disengaged 
units are no longer treated as firing units.)
Order of 
Casualties
Each type of unit has a specific “Order of Casualties” 
listed on the Unit Specificatioins Chart. This “Order 
of Casualties” specifies both the order in which 
units are destroyed and the order in which units are 
retreated or disengaged (see details below).
Foot/Mechanized/Air: The player who rolled the 
die must choose a foot class unit from among the 
targeted units. If there are no foot units, he must 
choose a mechanized unit; and if there are no foot or 
mechanized units, he chooses an air unit.
Foot or Mechanized/Air: The player who rolled the 
die must choose either a foot or a mechanized unit 
from among the targeted units. If there are no foot 
or mechanized units, he chooses an air unit.
Choice: The player who rolled the die may choose 
any targeted unit.

Combined Arms Hit: A defender who rolls this result 
always treats it as a “Hit” result. An attacker who rolls this 
result treats it as a “Hit” result when the declared territory 
is neither a city nor a mountain territory.
However, when an attacker rolls this result in a declared 
territory that is a city or a mountain territory (or both), he 
only resolves it as a “Hit” result if he has combined arms. 
A player has combined arms if his firing units currently 
include at least one of each class of military units: air, 
mechanized, and foot. If he does not currently have one 
of each (even if he started the battle with one of each), 
he treats it as a “Miss” result. The “Combined Arms Hit” 
result is described in more detail in the sidebar below.
Retreat Defender/Disengage Attacker: When an attacker 
rolls this result, he chooses one defending unit according 
to the attacking unit’s “Order of Casualties” (see “Order of 
Casualties” on page 16). The defender must retreat this unit.
To retreat, the defender moves the unit according to the 
rules that govern movement during the Invasion Action (see 
“Invasion Action” on page 18). Note: the unit cannot end 
this movement in a declared territory. If the unit cannot be 
moved to a friendly territory that is not a declared territory, 
it is destroyed. An Invader’s invasion zone is considered a 
When a defender rolls this result, he chooses one attacking 
unit according to the defending unit’s “Order of Casualties” 
(see “Order of Casualties” on page 16). This attacking unit 
must be disengaged.
To disengage the unit, the attacker turns the unit upside 
down or on its side (depending on which works better 
for that particular plastic figure). That unit cannot 
move or attack for the remainder of this turn. It is no 
longer considered a firing unit during the Attacker Fires 
part of the battle.
Note: when a player rolls a group of dice to resolve a class 
of units firing, he resolves “Hit” results and “Combined 
Arms Hit” results first. After which, he resolves all 
“Retreat Defender/Disengage Attacker” results.
Retreat 
1.	 The result of an attacking hovertank’s combat 
die is “Retreat Defender/Disengage Attacker.”
2.	 The hovertank’s “Order of Casualties” is 
“Foot or Mechanized/Air.” Since there are 
no defending foot or mechanized units, the 
attacker chooses a bomber to retreat.
3.	 The defender must move the retreating unit. 
Since the bomber can move four times during 
the Invasion Action, he can move it to a 
Note: if the retreating unit had been a hovertank 
rather than a bomber, it would have been destroyed 
since it could not reach a friendly territory.
“Combined Arms Hit” 
Results
Cities and mountainous areas are easier to defend 
from attack than other places. This additional 
challenge to an attacker is represented by 
the “Combined Arms Hit” result. Under most 
conditions, this result is treated as a “Hit” result.
However during combat in a city or mountain 
territory (or a territory that is both), if the attacker 
does not have at least one of each class of unit, the 
result is treated as a “Miss” result. Note: even if the 
attacker began the battle with one of each class 
of military unit, if he does not have one of each 
when the result is rolled (due to units being either 
destroyed or disengaged), it is still treated as a 
“Miss” result.
As defending units fire before attacking units, 
players may wish to keep the rules for the 
“Combined Arms Hit” result in mind when selecting 
which units to destroy when they are resolving the 
defender fires part of a battle.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 018
X
X
6. INVASION ACTION
After the player has completed his Combat Action, he can 
move his units, often to secure territories that his military 
overpowered during combat or that were undefended.
The Unit Specification Chart lists the invasion movement 
value for each type of unit. During his Invasion Action, a 
player can move each of his units on the board to an adjacent 
territory a number of times equal to that value. (For example, 
a hovertank can move only once to an adjacent territory.)
At the end of the Invasion Action, each unit must be in 
either a friendly territory or a declared territory with no 
enemy units in it. A player’s units cannot end the action 
in an unoccupied enemy territory that is not a declared 
territory nor in an occupied enemy territory.
Additionally, at the end of the Invasion Action, units cannot 
be in a declared territory in which a battle occurred 
and only the attacker’s bombers survived. (See “Bombers 
Cannot Invade Alone” on page 20.) As always, there can be 
no more than five units in a single territory at the end of the 
action. An Invader always treats his own invasion zones as a 
friendly territory for purposes of movement.
Example of A DEfender Firing
During the U.S. Player’s turn, he is attacking a mountain 
territory. Note: the U.S. Player has used the “bombing” ability 
to end his Maneuvers Action with a bomber in that territory. 
The Combat Action begins with the Western Invader firing, 
since he is the defender.
1.	 First the defender fires with his air units. But since he 
has no helicopters or bombers, he skips this step and 
proceeds to the mechanized units fire step. He has two 
mobile units and one hovertank in the territory.
2.	 To resolve the mechanized units fire step, the Western 
Invader consults the Unit Specifications Chart to 
determine the combat dice for these units: two red six-
sided dice (one for each of the mobile units) and one 
white eight-sided die (for the hovertank).
3.	 The Western Invader rolls these three dice and gets a 
“Hit” result and a “Miss” result (on the mobile units’ 
dice), as well as a “Combined Arms Hit” result (on the 
hovertank’s die).
4.	 He chooses to resolve the hit result first. According to 
the “Order of Casualties” for the mobile unit that fired, 
he must destroy either an enemy foot or mechanized 
unit before destroying an air unit. The player chooses to 
destroy the U.S. Player’s mobile unit. The unit is returned 
to the U.S. Player’s reserves.
5.	 The Western Invader then resolves the “Combined Arms 
Hit” result, which is alway treated as a “Hit” result for 
a defender, even when defending a mountain territory. 
According to the “Order of Casualties” for the hovertank 
that fired, he must destroy either an enemy foot or 
mechanized unit before destroying an air unit. The 
player chooses to destroy the U.S. Player’s hovertank.
6.	 The Western Invader then resolves the foot units fire 
step, using the Unit Specifications Chart to determine 
the combat dice: two red six-sided dice (one for each of 
the infantry).
7.	 He rolls both dice and gets a “Miss” result and a 
“Defender Retreats/Attacker Disengages” result.
8.	 He resolves the “Defender Retreats/Attacker 
Disengages” result. According to the “Order of 
Casualties” for infantry, he must choose an enemy foot 
unit to disengage before disengaging a mechanized or 
air unit. He chooses one of the U.S. Player’s infantry. 
The unit is placed on its side to indicate it cannot attack 
or move again during this turn.
TOP SECRET

When helicopters and bombers move during the Invasion 
Action, they can “fly over” territories in the same way 
that they can during the Maneuvers Action. They can 
move into territories that are occupied or unoccupied 
enemy territories, as well as territories that contain five 
units already, so long as they end their movement in 
either a friendly territory or a declared territory with 
no enemy units in it. (Note: they can also “fly over” a 
declared territory in which a combat occurred and the 
only surviving units were bombers. See “Bombers Cannot 
Invade Alone” on page 20).
Note: “scouting,” “bombing,” and “transport” abilities 
cannot be used during the Invasions Action. 
BOMBERS RETURN
A bomber that used its “bombing” ability to enter an 
occupied enemy territory must move out of the territory if 
there are still enemy units in it during the Invasion Action. 
This is true even if the bomber became disengaged during 
the battle.
Also, a player’s bomber that used its “bombing” ability to 
enter an occupied territory in which a combat occurred 
must move out of the territory if the only surviving units 
of that combat are the player’s bombers. This is true even 
if the bomber became disengaged during the battle (see 
“Bombers Cannot Invade Alone” on page 20).
Example of An Attacker Firing
After the Western Invader fired, the U.S. Player may now fire 
with its remaining units.
1.	 First the attacker fires with his air units. Since his 
bomber used its “bombing” ability, the attacker must 
use the bomber to attack.
2.	 To resolve the air units fire step, the U.S. Player 
consults the Unit Specifications Chart to determine the 
combat die for the bomber: a blue ten-sided die.
3.	 The U.S. Player rolls a “Defender Retreats/Attacker 
Disengages” result.
4.	 He resolves the “Defender Retreats/Attacker Disengages” 
result. According to the “Order of Casualties” for the 
bomber, he can choose any targeted unit to retreat. The 
player chooses the Western Invader’s hovertank. Since 
the hovertank cannot reach a friendly territory using 
its invasion movement rating of “1,” it is destroyed and 
placed on the graveyard sheet.
5.	 Next, the attacker would have fired with his 
mechanized units, but his mobile unit and hovertank 
were destroyed. So, he skips this step and proceeds 
to the foot units fire step. He has one partisan unit in 
combat position. (His infantry unit is disengaged and is 
not considered a firing unit.)
6.	 The U.S. Player uses the Unit Specifications Chart to 
determine the combat dice: one red six-sided die. (The 
partisan does not use the white eight-side die because 
it is not attacking alone. The U.S. Player still has his 
bomber as well.).
7.	 He rolls the die and gets a “Combined Arms Hit” result 
Because the U.S. Player is the attacker and the declared 
territory is a mountain territory, this result only counts 
as a hit result if the attacker is attacking with at least 
one of each class of unit. Since his mechanized units 
were all destroyed, he does not have one of each class 
and the result is considered a miss.
EYES ONLY

FORTRESS AMERICA / 020
DESTROY LASERS
When an Invader unit moves into a city territory containing 
a laser miniature during the Invasion Action, the U.S. 
Player immediately removes the laser miniature from 
the board. (For purposes of destroying lasers, disregard 
bombers that used their “bombing” ability.)
GENERAL INVASION ACTION RULES
The player must move:
Bombers that used their “bombing” ability that are in 
the same territory as one or more enemy units.
Bombers that used their “bombing” ability that are 
in a territory in which the only surviving units of the 
battle in that territory are the attacker’s bombers.
The player can move:
Into a friendly zone.
Into an unoccupied enemy territory if it is a declared 
territory. (This is not true of territories in which the 
only surviving units of the combat in that territory are 
the attacker’s bombers.)
Into an occupied enemy territory or unoccupied enemy 
territory if they are “flying over” it with a helicopter or 
a bomber.
The player cannot move:
Into an enemy invasion zone.
Into an unoccupied enemy territory that is not a 
declared territory, unless they are “flying over” it with 
a helicopter or a bomber.
Into an occupied enemy territory, unless they are 
“flying over” it with a helicopter or a bomber.
A military unit that is upside down or on its side as 
a result of being disengaged or as a result of a player 
using his helicopter’s “scouting” ability. (The exception 
to this is bombers who must move according to the 
“Bombers Return” section on page 19.)
7. SUPPLY CHECK ACTION 
(INVADER ONLY)
After the Invasion Action, an Invader must check to ensure 
that each of his units has an uninterrupted supply line 
between itself and one of his invasion zones. The U.S. 
Player never needs to perform this Action and proceeds 
immediately to the Capture Territories Action.
UNINTERRUPTED SUPPLY LINE
During this action, an Invader confirms that between 
each of his units and any one of his invasion zones is an 
uninterrupted series of adjacent territories that are one of 
the following:
1.	 A friendly territory.
2.	 A declared territory that contains at least one of 
the Invader’s units.
Bombers Cannot 
Invade alone
Winning a battle with only bombers means no one 
is on the ground to secure the victory. If all of the 
defending units were destroyed but the only attacking 
units that survived were bombers, the attacker may 
not invade that territory. In other words, a player may 
not move any of his units into a declared territory if 
a battle occurred there during this turn and the only 
surviving units were his bombers. (Disengaged units 
are not treated as a surviving unit.) Any bomber that 
is in such a territory must move out of it, even if it 
was disengaged.
Supply Check 
1.	 The infantry unit can trace an uninterrupted 
supply line (a series of adjacent territories that 
are either a friendly territory or a declared 
territory that contains at least one of the 
Invader’s units).
2.	 This helicopter cannot trace an uninterrupted 
supply line. As a result, it is destroyed and 
placed on the graveyard sheet.
DECODED

Each of the Invader’s units that is not connected to one 
of his invasion zones by such a series of territories is 
destroyed and placed on the graveyard sheet.
Note: each Invader only checks for an uninterrupted 
supply line during this action of his own turn. During 
any other part of the Invader’s turn (and during any other 
player’s turn) the Invader does not have to destroy units 
that do not have an uninterrupted supply line.
8. CAPTURE TERRITORIES ACTION
After an Invader checks the supply line for each of his 
units (or after the U.S. Player completes his Invasion 
Action), the player takes control of territories he has 
successfully invaded. Invaders and the U.S. Player resolve 
the Capture Territories Action differently.
Check each declared territory. If none of the Invader’s units 
occupy the territory, he removes the control marker from 
the territory and returns it to his pool of control markers.
However, if at least one of the Invader’s units occupies 
the territory, the Invader flips his control marker from its 
“Combat” side to its “Control” side. If another Invader’s 
control marker is in the territory, that Invader returns it to 
his pool of control markers.
The “Control” Side of a Western Invader Control Marker
If this territory contains a a city miniature, the miniature 
is moved to the first empty space on the captured city 
track. If all spaces on the track are full when a city 
territory is captured, the miniature is placed to the right of 
the track instead. 
Finally, return any plastic units that have been placed 
on their side or upside down (from being disengaged or 
from a player using his helicopter’s “scouting” ability) back 
to their upright position.
Check each declared territory. If none of the U.S. Player’s 
units occupy the territory, he flips the control marker in 
that territory from its “Combat” side to its “Control” side.
If at least one of the U.S. Player’s units occupies the 
territory, he returns the control marker from the territory 
to its corresponding Invader. The Invader returns it to his 
pool of control markers.
Each time the U.S. Player removes a control marker 
from a city territory, he places the city miniature most 
recently placed on the captured city track on that city 
territory, draws a bonus partisan card, and places that 
card facedown in front of himself without looking at it. 
These cards will be resolved in the U.S. Player’s next 
Reinforcements Action.
Finally, return any plastic units that have been placed 
on their side or upside down (as a result of being 
disengaged or as a result of a player using his helicopter’s 
“scouting” ability) back to their upright position.
CHECK FOR INVADER VICTORY AND ADVANCE THE 
U.S. PLAYER TURN TRACK
The last thing the U.S. Player does during his turn is check 
the number of city miniatures on the captured city track. 
If all 18 spaces on the track have a city miniature on them, 
the Invaders have won and the game is over.
If the captured city track has 17 or fewer city miniatures 
on it, the U.S. Player then moves the turn marker to the 
next space on the U.S. turn track. If he moves it from the 
“10” space to the “U.S. Victory” space, the U.S. Player has 
won and the game is over.
U.S. VICTORY
The U.S. Player wins the game if he destroys all invading 
units, the turn tracker reaches the “U.S. Victory” space 
while 17 or fewer city miniatures are on the captured city 
track, or if all Invaders concede by mutual agreement.
INVADER VICTORY
The Invaders collectively win if 18 or more city miniatures 
are on the captured city track at the end of the U.S. Player’s 
turn or if the U.S. Player concedes.
VARIANTS
This section contains optional rules that players may wish to 
use during the game. Before playing, all players must agree 
on which variants (if any) they will use during the game.
BALANCING FACTORS
When the skill or experience of the players varies, players 
may wish to adjust some of the rules to increase the 
difficulty for either the U.S. Player or the Invaders.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 022
TO INCREASE DIFFICULTY FOR THE U.S. PLAYER
The following rules can be adjusted to favor the Invaders:
Decrease the number of city miniatures on the 
captured city track necessary to win.
Partisans always roll red six-sided dice, never white 
eight-sided dice.
The U.S. player does not get a bonus partisan card 
when he recaptures a city territory.
TO INCREASE DIFFICULTY FOR THE INVADERS
The following rules can be adjusted to favor the U.S. Player:
Increase the number of city miniatures on the captured 
city track necessary to win.
Instead of placing eight units during his 
Reinforcements Action, each Invader places five units.
The U.S. player starts the game with one or more laser 
miniatures already on the game board.
INDIVIDUAL INVADER 
VICTORY VARIANT
In a three-player or four-player game, when the Invaders 
have won, they may collectively choose to each take one 
more turn (the Western Invader first, then the Southern 
Invader, and finally the Eastern Invader) to determine 
which of the Invaders is the game’s lone victor.
LAST ROUND OF PLAY
Each Invader takes his turn as normal, but collects points for 
accomplishing certain achievements:
10 points for each city territory that contains one of his 
control markers at the end of the Eastern Invader’s turn.
5 points for each time he destroys a laser.
3 points for each resource territory (either an agriculture, 
mineral, or oil resource territory) that contains one of his 
control markers at the end of the Eastern Invader’s turn.
At the end of the Eastern Invader’s turn, each Invader adds 
up the number of points he earned and the Invader who 
collected the most points has won the game. Ties are won 
by whichever tied Invader goes first in the game turn.
Note: the U.S. Player must still defend his territories during 
Invaders’ Combat Actions, even though he does not take 
another turn and cannot win the game.
INVADER CARD VARIANT
This variant provides Invaders with a small deck of cards 
that add unique opportunities for each Invader.
SETUP
During setup, each Invader takes his corresponding 
invader cards. Each Invader shuffles his deck of cards and 
places it facedown next to his reference sheet.
DRAWING INVADER CARDS
During each Invader’s Reinforcements Action, he must do 
one of the following:
Choose eight units from his reserves and distribute 
them among his invasion zones.
or
Choose five units from his reserves and distribute 
them among his invasion zones and draw one of his 
invasion cards. He can also draw one of his invasion 
cards during his Reinforcements Action if his reserves 
have been depleted.
When an Invader draws an invader card, he examines it 
and then adds it to his hand of cards without revealing it 
to other players. There is no limit to the number of invader 
cards an Invader can have in his hand at the same time.
PLAYING INVADER CARDS
The text on each invader card describes when it can be 
played. To play an invader card, the Invader places it faceup 
in front of himself and reads the card aloud, resolving all 
effects described on the card. Note: many invader cards 
have requirements that must be met before the card can be 
played (see below). After the effect is resolved, the card is 
discarded (see “Discarding Invader Cards” on page 23). If the 
phrase “Remains in Play” appears on the invasion card, it 
stays faceup in front of the Invader and its text continues to 
take effect until the player is instructed to discard the card. 
INVADER CARD REQUIREMENTS
Most invader cards have requirements that must be met 
before it can be played. Each requirement is a specific territory 
or a category of territories in which the Invader must have a 
control marker with its “Control” side up. These requirements 
are indicated by the icons on the bottom of the card:
Agricultural Territory
Mineral Territory
Oil Territory
City Territory
Specific City Territory

A control marker with the “Control” side up in any city 
territory is sufficient to meet the city territory requirement. 
But to fulfill a specific city requirement, the Invader must 
have a control marker with the “Control” side up in the 
city territory specifically required by the card’s text.
If an Invader does not have a control marker with the 
“Control” side up in a card’s required territories, he cannot 
play the card. Cards that remain in play continue to take 
effect even if its requirements are no longer met.
DISCARDING INVADER CARDS
When a player discards an invader card, he returns it to the 
game box. Once a deck of invader cards has been depleted, 
do not reshuffle discarded cards and create a new deck.
FOOTHOLDS
Certain invader cards instruct an Invader to place a foothold 
overlay on top of its corresponding city territory. While on 
the board, a foothold overlay is treated like an additional 
invasion zone for that Invader. He can place units in that 
territory during his Reinforcements Action and use it for 
determining supply lines during the Supply Check Action.
Like other invasion zones, the San Antonio foothold cannot 
be captured by another player. In the case of the Seattle 
and Atlanta footholds, another player can capture the 
territory, causing the foothold overlay to be discarded.
CREDITS
Game Design: Michael Gray
FFG Edition Design and Development: Kevin Wilson
Editing & Proofreading: David Johnson
Graphic Design: Edge Studio and Evan Simonet
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Cover Art: Scott Schomburg
Figure Designs: Ben Zweifel and Jason Beaudoin
FFG Licensing & Development Coordinator: Deb Beck
Producers: Tim Uren with Christopher Hosch
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
FFG Edition Playtesters: Pedar Brown, Ryan Carstensen, 
Tom Ebert, Matthew Everhart, John Goodenough, David 
Johnson, Steve Kimball, Jessica V. Lindgren, Adam Sadler, 
Jeremy Stomberg, and Nik Wilson
WIZARDS OF THE COAST 
LICENSING APPROVALS TEAM
Senior Creative Director: John Schindehette
Tabletop Games Manager: Rodney Thompson
Associate Brand Manager: Hilary Ross 
© 2012 Hasbro. All Rights Reserved. Fortress America is licensed by Wizards 
of the Coast LLC. Avalon Hill and its logos are trademarks of Hasbro, Inc. 
and Wizard of the Coast and its logos are trademarks of Wizards of the 
Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. Used with permission. Fantasy 
Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks 
of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved to their respective 
owners. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 
1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA. 651-639-1905. Retain this information 
for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to small 
parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China.
www.FantasyFlightGames.com
Anatomy of 
an invader card
1.	 Title: A phrase describing the card’s effect.
2.	 Requirements: Cards that include a specific city 
territory requirement list the required city here.
3.	 Effects: The rules to follow when resolving the 
card..
4.	 Icons: Symbols that correspond to the card’s 
requirements.

FORTRESS AMERICA / 024
Examples of “Scouting,” “Bombing,” 
“transport,” and Retreat
SCOUTING
1.	 During his Declare Battles Action, the Western Invader 
places a control marker in this territory with the 
2.	 During his Maneuvers Action, his helicopter “flies 
over” an enemy-occupied territory with the first of its 
two moves.
3.	 The Western Invader chooses to use the helicopter’s 
“scouting” ability and moves it to an unoccupied 
enemy territory.
4.	 He then flips the helicopter upside down to serve as a 
reminder that it can no longer move or attack during 
this turn.
BOMBING
1.	 During his Declare Battles Action, the Western Invader 
places a control marker in this territory with the 
2.	 During his Maneuvers Action, his bomber “flies over” 
three enemy-occupied territories with the first three of 
its four moves.
3.	 The Western Invader chooses to use the “bombing” 
ability and moves it to an occupied enemy territory.
During combat in this territory, this bomber must be among 
the units that attack the territory.
TRANSPORT
1.	 During his Maneuvers Action, the Western Invader 
moves his mobile unit to an adjacent territory, he 
decides to use the mobile unit’s “transport” ability.
2.	 He chooses an infantry from the same territory and 
moves it along with the mobile unit.
3.	 He cannot move the other infantry unless he first 
moves the other mobile unit and uses the “transport” 
ability again.
RETREAT
1.	 The result of an attacking hovertank’s combat die is 
“Retreat Defender/Disengage Attacker.”
2.	 The hovertank’s “Order of Casualties” is “Foot or 
Mechanized/Air.” Since there are no defending foot or 
mechanized units, the attacker chooses a bomber to 
retreat.
3.	 The defender must move the retreating unit. Since 
the bomber can move four times during the Invasion 
Action, he can move it to a friendly territory.
Note: had the retreating unit been a hovertank rather than a 
bomber, it would have been destroyed since it could not reach 
a friendly territory.
QUICK REFERENCE EXAMPLES