Overview
2-4 players | 20-40 mins | Ages 8+
You’re a kid! And like many kids, you want to grow your 
circle of friends, grab a bunch of pizza and toys, and 
build the best fort. Naturally, by doing this cool stuff 
you’ll score victory points, and at the end of the game, 
the player with the most victory points is the winner! 
Fort is a deckbuilding game with a twist—your cards not 
only let you take actions on your own turn, but also let 
you follow the other players’ actions on their turns. Will 
you devote yourself to your own posse or copy what 
the other kids are doing? 
Keep an eye out, though—if you don’t actually use all 
the cards in your hand, the other players will get a 
chance to nab them. After all, if you don’t play with your 
friends, why should they hang out with you anymore?

Basic Setup 
Play this for your first game as you learn the cards and actions.
1.	
Determine the starting player and seating order randomly. Give 
the first player card to the starting player. 
2.	 Collect supplies of all 30 pizza tokens and 30 toys tokens.
3.	 Each player takes a player board, the 2 Best Friend kid cards 
(marked B to left of kid’s name) listed on the back of their player 
board, and the score marker and fort level marker matching 
their board’s color. Return the rest of these pieces to the box.
4.	 Each player places their score marker on the “0” space of the 
Victory Track and their fort level marker on the “0” space of 
their Fort Level track on their player board.
5.	 Place the macaroni sculpture card next to the Victory Track.
6.	 Shuffle all 11 made-up rule cards and deal them into a facedown 
stack equal to the number of players plus one. 
Return the rest to the box.
7.	
Shuffle all 9 perk cards and deal them into a face-up row equal 
to the number of players plus one. Return the rest to the box.
8.	 Shuffle all 60 kid cards into a facedown Park deck, placing it 
near the Victory Track. Deal 3 kid cards from the Park deck into 
the Park below the Victory Track, making a face-up row.
9.	
Each player draws 8 kid cards from the Park deck. (Players may 
look at their own cards.)
10.	 Each player shuffles their 8 kid cards with their 2 Best Friend 
kid cards to form their own facedown deck. 
11.	 Each player draws 5 kid cards from their own deck. (From now 
on, kid cards are simply called “cards.”)
Advanced Setup
After your first game, draft your starting cards instead of drawing them.
Replace step 9 of Basic Setup with this: Each player draws 8 kid 
cards from the Park deck. Simultaneously, each player looks at their 
cards (not Best Friends) and keeps one card of their choice facedown 
in front of them. Once every player has chosen a card, each player 
passes their unchosen cards to the player to their left. Do this eight 
times in total, keeping one card each pass, until each player has kept 
eight cards. You cannot pass cards that you kept in an earlier pass.

Example Setup for Two Players

Card Anatomy
A: Suit
Every card has one of six suits 
or the wild coin suit. Some 
cards show two of the same 
suit or mix one suit with the 
wild coin suit. 
B: Public Action
The action in this box can be followed by other players. Basically, 
following means that they can discard a card matching the suit of this 
card to copy its public action. You’ll learn more about this later.
C: Private Action
The action in this box cannot be followed by other players.
D: Best Friend Icon
Each player starts with 2 Best Friends (B). You’ll never lose your Best 
Friends unless you choose to use specific actions, while other cards 
might get nabbed by the other players.
Cards in Fort have many actions, which you will learn more about 
gradually. If you want to learn about a specific action immediately, 
though, you can reference pages 12–14.
E: Nickname
It’s just that.
Skateboard
Shovel
Glue
Squirtgun
Crown
Book
Coin 
Can be treated as any suit.
A
B
C
D
E

Player Board Anatomy
A: Yard
Cards you do not use are placed here face up at the end of your turn.
B: Lookout
Some actions let you add cards here from your hand. It can hold cards 
up to your Fort Level plus one. They cannot be replaced or removed.
C: Stuff
When you gather pizza or toys tokens (collectively called resources), 
they go in your Stuff. It can hold up to four of each.
D: Pack
Some actions let you add resources here from your Stuff. Your Pack 
can hold resources up to your Fort Level plus one.
E: Fort Level
Your Fort starts at Level 0. Its Level will score you victory points at 
the end of the game and boost your Pack and Lookout capacities.
F: Cost to Increase Fort Level
Whenever you increase your Fort Level, you must pay the resources 
shown here from your Stuff, Pack, or both. Blue is toys, orange is 
pizza, and white is either.
G: Prompt to Gain Card
When you reach Fort Level 1, 2, or 5, you get a made-up rule, perk, or 
macaroni sculpture (page 10).
E
D
B
F
G
C
A

How to Play
Fort is played in a series of turns, starting with the first player and 
going clockwise around the table until the game ends. 
The player taking the current turn is called the leader. The leader’s 
turn has five phases in the following order:
1.	
Cleanup
2.	 Play
3.	 Recruit
4.	 Discard
5.	 Draw
The leader completes all of these steps, then ends their turn. In this 
chapter, “you” refers to the leader except where noted otherwise.
Phase 1: Cleanup
Let’s see which friends are sticking around.
Skip this phase during your first turn.
Discard all the cards in your Yard (above your player board), placing 
them face up in your discard pile (to the right of your player board). 
Phase 2: Play
Playtime! You’ll play one card and use one or both of its 
actions, and the other players might follow your action.
Play one card from your hand. (This is called the played card.) If 
you cannot or choose not to play a card, you may skip this phase and 
continue to the Recruit phase. 
Use one or both actions. You may use the card’s public action, 
private action, or both in either order. You must finish one action 
before starting the other action.
You may add suits to improve some actions. If an action on your 
played card shows an x sign followed by a suit icon, you may improve 
it by playing more cards showing that suit. (These are called added 
cards.) You may also add any matching suits shown on cards in your 
Lookout. You cannot use the action on the added cards.

The leader, Eleanor, plays Bug and uses his public (top) action to get 
pizza equal to s. To improve Bug’s action, she adds The Moles for 
two s, and she also adds one s from her Lookout. With her total of 
four s, she gains four pizza tokens and adds them to her Stuff!
She could have just added the second s from her Lookout to get 
three pizza, but if she hadn’t played The Moles, then they would have 
been kicked out to her Yard later in her turn. She doesn’t want that!
Then, she uses Bug’s private (bottom) action, “Score victory points 
equal to Fort Level,” so she scores 1 point because her Fort Level is 1.
You must use at least one action on your card fully. This includes 
any suits you add to improve your action. If you use one of the 
actions fully, though, you can use the other action partially or fully, in 
either order. (No, using a blank action fully doesn’t count.)
Later in the game, Eleanor plays Bud, who has a public action of 
“gain two pizza or two toys” and a private action of “trash one of your 
cards.” However, at this point her Stuff can only hold one more pizza.
In this case, she cannot use Bud’s public action alone, because she 
cannot use it fully. However, if she uses the private action fully by 
trashing one of her cards, she can use the public action partially to 
gain one pizza—either action first.

You cannot add a card if none of its suits serve a purpose. 
Whenever you add a card to improve your played card, at least one of 
its suits must change the effect of at least one action that you use. 
Muhammad plays Doodles and uses the private (bottom) action 
fully. He also wants to use the public (top) action. He wants to add 
one card with g and one with wc, using the wild w as g. However, 
he can only hold two more toys in his Stuff, so adding both of those 
cards doesn’t do anything different from adding just one of them. 
Because of this, he can add either of these cards, but not both.
Following the Leader
After the leader resolves their card, the other players in turn order 
may follow the public action on the leader’s played card. (Doesn’t 
matter whether the leader used the public action or not.) These 
players are called followers. In this section, “you” refers to followers.
To follow the leader’s public action, you must discard one card from 
your hand with a suit matching their played card.
Limitations:
You cannot discard more than one card.
You cannot discard a card in your Lookout.
You must use the action in full.
Specific Situations:
If the leader played a w coin card, the leader declares its suit, 
which is the suit you must discard to follow the leader.
If the leader gathered a choice of toys or pizza, you must 
gather the chosen resource. (If the leader chose to get two 
pizza, for example, you must get two pizza.)

You may follow by discarding a card with multiple suits, as 
long as at least one suit matches the leader’s played card. If it 
has two matching suits, count both if the action shows an x 
sign followed by the suit.
Yes, you can follow as many leaders as you wish before it gets back 
to your turn, as long as you discard a matching card each time.
Phase 3: Recruit
Time to make a new friend! Maybe you’ll take someone else’s?
You must recruit one card, placing it in your discard pile. You may 
recruit in one of three ways:
Take any card from the Park. Immediately draw a new card 
from the Park deck to replace it.
Take any card from any player’s Yard. They do not draw a 
new card.
Draw a card from the Park deck.
Phase 4: Discard
Didn’t play with some of your friends? 
Maybe they’ll go hang out with someone else.
Discard all of your played cards, added cards, and any Best Friends 
cards left in your hand into your own discard pile. (Do not discard 
from your Lookout.) Discard piles are face up and public information.
Then, place any cards left in your hand into your Yard, face up and 
facing away from you. (Rivals may recruit them until your next 
Cleanup phase.)
Phase 5: Draw
Your old friends show up to play again.
Draw five cards from your own deck. If you cannot draw a card 
because your deck is empty, shuffle your discard pile to form a new 
deck and continue drawing.
This is the only time you draw cards in Fort! You do not draw cards if 
you discard a card to follow, for example.

Fort Level
Each player has a Fort, which starts at Level 0. You can increase your 
Fort Level by one with the Advance Fort action (page 12), spending 
the resources listed between your current Level and the next Level.
At Level 0, your Lookout can hold up to one card, and your Pack can 
hold up to one resource. Each Level lets you hold one more card in 
your Lookout and one more resource in your Pack.
When you reach Level 1, privately choose a made-up rule card 
(page 15) from the central stack and put it in front of you facedown. 
Your made-up rule will score you points at the end of the game.
When you reach Level 2, choose a face-up perk card (page 16) from 
the central row and put it in front of you. Some perks have persistent 
effects that you will have for the entire game, while other perks can 
only be used once per game.
When you reach Level 5, take the macaroni sculpture card, unless 
another player already has it. This triggers the end of the game, and it 
scores you 4 victory points at the end.
End of Game
The end of the game triggers in any one of these three ways:
Any player has 25 or more victory points on the Victory Track
Any player reaches Fort Level 5
The Park deck is empty (even if the Park still has cards)
When the end of the game triggers, the leader finishes their turn, then 
the players finish the current round of turns (so that all the players 
have taken the same number of turns).
At the end of that round, each player reveals their made-up rule (if 
any) and adds up their victory points from their:
Victory Track
Fort Level
Made-Up Rule (if any)
Macaroni Sculpture (if any)
The player with the most victory points is the winner. If there is a tie, 
the tied player with the highest Fort Level wins. If still tied, share the 
victory. 

End of Game Example
Shawna reaches Fort Level 5 first and takes the macaroni sculpture, 
triggering the end of the game. Since she was the first player, all the 
other players take a turn, then everyone counts up their final scores.
First, she checks the Victory Track. She’s scored 17 points throughout 
the game.
She adds 23 points for her Fort Level of 5.
She adds 4 points because she has the macaroni sculpture.
Finally, she adds points for her made-up rule: Popularity. This card 
scores 1 point for each card she has in her Lookout. She has 4 cards 
in her Lookout, so she scores 4 points.
In total, her score is 48 points. She ends up tied at 48 points with 
Muhammad, but she has the higher Fort Level, so she wins!

Actions
Gather Resource
Gain the resource (pizza or toys) shown from the shared 
supply and place it in your Stuff. If this action lets you 
choose to gain either pizza or toys, you may only gain all 
pizza or all toys, not a mixture.
Pack Resource
Take one resource from your Stuff and place it in your Pack. 
Why would I want to pack resources?
Some actions and made-up rules let you score points 
based on the resources in your Pack, and you can copy 
everything in your Pack by using the Copy Pack action.
Add Card to Lookout
Tuck one card from your hand into your Lookout (under the 
left side of your player board), showing only its suit.
Trash Card
Choose one card in your hand or discard pile (but not deck) 
and return it to the box. You cannot trash your played card 
or added cards, but you can trash a Best Friend. (Rude.)
Trash This Card
Once you finish this action and any followers have finished 
their actions, return this card to the box.
Recruit Card
Recruit one card exactly as described in Recruit (page 9).
Advance Fort
Pay the resources shown between your current and next 
Fort Level, returning them to the shared supply. You may 
pay from your Stuff, Pack, or both. Then, move your fort 
level marker to the next Level. Your new Level may prompt 
you to gain a card, as described in Fort Level (page 10).
Score Point
Advance your score marker once on the Victory Track.

Spend Resource 
Remove the resource shown from your Stuff or Pack, 
returning it to the shared supply.
Trash Rival Card 
Return one card from any rival player’s Yard to the box.
Copy Pack 
Gain the same resources currently in your Pack and add 
them to your Stuff.
Copy Rival Pack 
Gain the same resources currently in any rival player’s Pack 
and add them to your Stuff. (You don’t steal them!)
Convert Resource
Replace one pizza or toy in your Stuff or Pack with the other 
resource.
Other Action Symbols
Resources in Your Pack
To clarify, when you score points from resources in your 
Pack, only the number of resources matters, not the types.
Your Fort Level
To clarify, this symbol is not the Advance Fort action.
Any One Suit
You can choose any one of the suits, including the w coin 
suit. To clarify, if you choose the same suit as the card with 
this action, its suit counts, but otherwise it does not.
Cards in Your Lookout
To clarify, this is the number of cards, not suits.
Modified COst to Advance Fort
This Advance Fort action costs one less or one more 
resource, as shown, of either type.

Other Action Symbols Cont.
Per
Do the action on the left side of this sign the number of 
times shown by the symbol on the right side of this sign. 
Actions without this sign happen once—they cannot be 
improved by adding suits.
Gather toys equal to glue.
Score victory points equal to 
number of resources in your Pack.
Then
Do the action on the left side of this sign, then do the action 
on the right side of this sign. You must do the action on the 
left in order to do the action on the right, and you must do 
the action on the right if able.
Trash one card from a rival player's 
Yard, then gather one resource.
Advance your Fort Level, paying its 
cost, then score 2 victory points.
Parentheses
Parentheses contain a group of actions and symbols. When 
a group is multiplied by an x sign, do everything inside the 
parentheses the number of times shown by the symbol on 
the right side of the x sign.
Recruit one card, then gather one 
toy, equal to squirtguns. (Each 
time, you must recruit in order to 
gather the toy.)
Score victory points equal to 
books, then trash this card.

Glossary: Made-Up Rules
If a made-up rule scores points based on cards or suits you have, 
count all your cards in your deck, discard, hand, Yard, and Lookout.
Big Plans: At the end of the game, score 1 point per Advance Fort 
action you have. This includes when it is only part of an action, like on 
Lefty and Dot. It does not include the DIY perk card.
Friendship Bracelet: At the end of the game, score 1 point for each 
different suit you have, except the coin (w) suit. If you have all six 
suits, score an extra 1 point. 
Piggy Bank: At the end of the game, score 1 point per toys token on 
your player board.
Pizza Party: At the end of the game, score 1 point per pizza token on 
your player board.
Loner: At the end of the game, score 5 points if you have no Best 
Friends cards.
Minimalism: At the end of the game, score 8 points if your Fort Level 
is exactly 2.
Popularity: At the end of the game, score 1 point per card in your 
Lookout.
Play Palace: At the end of the game, score 1 point per crown (c) suit 
you have.
Secret Stash: At the end of the game, score 1 point per resource in 
your Pack.
Sleepover: At the end of the game, score 8 points if you have more 
cards than each other rival player has. If you are tied for the most 
cards, score 4 points.
Slime Lab: At the end of the game, score 1 point per book (b) suit 
you have.

Glossary: Perks
Birthday Party: At the end of your Recruit phase, you may recruit 
another card from the Park or Park deck, but not a rival player's Yard.
Bribe: On your turn, whenever you use the Add Card to Lookout 
action, you may add a card from the Park, the Park deck, or any Yard 
(instead of your hand). You may still choose to add from your hand.
Copy Cat: Whenever you follow, you may discard up to 2 cards 
(instead of 1 card), using the matching suits of both cards.
DIY: On your turn, instead of playing a card, you may trash this card 
to use the Advance Fort action, spending one more resource (either 
pizza or toys) than normal. This action cannot be followed.
Do-Over: On your turn, after you finish playing a card and every rival 
player has followed or chosen not to, you may trash this card to play 
a second card. (You may improve it by adding suits, and rival players 
may follow its public action, as normal.)
Recycling: Anytime on your turn, you may trash this card to take a 
card from your discard pile and add it to your hand.
Rough Housing: Instead of following a rival player’s public action, 
and after each other rival player has followed or chosen not to, you 
may trash this card to trash the leader’s played card.
Sticky Fingers: On your turn, whenever you use the Pack Resource 
action, you may take the resource from the shared supply (instead of 
your Stuff), in any combination if you use the action multiple times.
XXL Backpack: Your Pack can hold 2 extra resources.
Credits
Game Design: Grant Rodiek
Development Lead: Nick Brachmann
Illustration: Kyle Ferrin
Rules and Usability: Joshua Yearsley
Graphic Design: Nick Brachmann and Pati Hyun
Development: Leder Games' Saint Paul staff—Marshall Britt, Clayton Capra, Ted 
Caya, Gates Dowd, Pati Hyun, Patrick Leder, Cole Wehrle
Playtesting: Steven Wyman, Aaron Greatorex-Voith, Ryan Schneider, Fletcher 
Thomas, Bryan Haider, Aaron Williams, Mitch Gerke, Pat McNaughton, Em Handy, 
Brittni Dye, Daniel Solis, Jeffrey Allen, Jason Saastad, Carrie Bernstein, Justin Dowd, 
Nicole Smith, Antonio Romeo, Kevin Gibson, David Miotke, and many at the Brass Cat