Slavery and what it embodied had been a point of contention since the founding of 
the United States. Thanks to the efforts of men and women across the country, it was 
abolished. In FREEDOM: THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD, players 
take on the role of these brave Abolitionists. They attempt to end the institution of 
slavery by influencing pivotal events of the time, raising funds for the Abolitionist 
Cause, and moving slaves to freedom in Canada.
During the Planning
Phase, remove one Slave
from each of the Slave
Market deliveries currently
on the board and return
them to the supply.
move up to two plantation 
Slaves to New York, 
-$1 Conductor Token Cost 
during Planning and Action 
Phases.
SLAVES LOST
SLAVES FREED
Challenging Game
Abolitionist Queue
Copyright © 2013 Academy Games
I
II
III
Free States and Territories
Slave States
Decision left to Territory
PAY
ORDER OF PLAY
1. Slave Catcher Phase - roll the Slave 
Catcher and Movement dice.
2. Planning Phase - Take up to two tokens.
3. Action Phase - Starting with the Lead 
Player: Use Role, play two Tokens, and 
buy Abolitionist Card (any order).
4. Slave Market Phase - deliver slaves to 
Plantations.
5. Cleanup Phase - Trigger/discard last 
Abolitionist Card(s). Slide and fill cards. 
Pass the Lead Player token clockwise. 
If the last slave ship has delivered, the 
game is over.
le
P
ila
oc
F
err
is
b
g
ev
el
 Y
or
k
Bos
to
Washington
 D.
C.
5 SLAVE CATCHER MARKERS
17 SUPPORT TOKENS
MONEY
96 SLAVE CUBES
13 FUNDRAISING TOKENS
27 CONDUCTOR TOKENS
LEAD PLAYER
LANTERN
SLAVE CATCHER & 
MOVEMENT DICE
52 ABOLITIONIST CARDS
MAP & TOKEN BOARD
6 ROLE CARDS
18 SLAVE MARKET CARDS
4 VICTORY 
CONDITIONS 
CARDS
Reserve Cards 
(white)
General Cards 
(tan)
Opposition Cards 
(red-orange)

Copyright © 2013 Academy Games
I
II
III
Free States and Territories
Slave States
Decision left to Territory
PAY
ORDER OF PLAY
1. Slave Catcher Phase - roll the Slave 
Catcher and Movement dice.
2. Planning Phase - Take up to two tokens.
3. Action Phase - Starting with the Lead 
Player: Use Role, play two Tokens, and 
buy Abolitionist Card (any order).
4. Slave Market Phase - deliver slaves to 
Plantations.
5. Cleanup Phase - Trigger/discard last 
Abolitionist Card(s). Slide and fill cards. 
Pass the Lead Player token clockwise. 
If the last slave ship has delivered, the 
game is over.
le
P
ila
oc
F
err
is
b
g
ev
el
 Y
or
k
Bos
to
Washington
 D.
C.
Reserve Card
Order of Play
1. Slave Catcher Phase - Roll the Slave Catcher Dice.
2. Planning Phase - Each player may purchase up to a total of two 
Conductor, Fundraising, and/or Support tokens.
3. Action Phase - Starting with the Lead Player, a player may take any or all 
of the following Actions in any order: 
- Gain the benefit of the player’s Role Card. 
- Use the Role Cards one time special ability. 
- Play up to two Conductor and/or Fundraising tokens, 
4. Slave Market Phase - Deliver slaves from the bottom Slave Market Card 
to the Plantations. 
5. Cleanup Phase - Discard a card if it is in the right most space in the 
Abolitionist Queue. This may trigger a negative action. Check for victory. 
If the game continues, refill the Abolitionist Queue and pass the Lead 
Player token clockwise.
Stockholder
Reserve Card
Order of Play
1. Slave Catcher Phase - Roll the Slave Catcher Dice.
2. Planning Phase - Each player may purchase up to a total of two 
Conductor, Fundraising, and/or Support tokens.
3. Action Phase - Starting with the Lead Player, a player may take any or all 
of the following Actions in any order: 
- Gain the benefit of the player’s Role Card. 
- Use the Role Cards one time special ability. 
- Play up to two Conductor and/or Fundraising tokens, 
4. Slave Market Phase - Deliver slaves from the bottom Slave Market Card 
to the Plantations. 
5. Cleanup Phase - Discard a card if it is in the right most space in the 
Abolitionist Queue. This may trigger a negative action. Check for victory. 
If the game continues, refill the Abolitionist Queue and pass the Lead 
Player token clockwise.
Abolitionist Queue
ABOLITIONIST QUEUE
PERIOD COLUMNS
PLANTATION
SLAVE MARKET
SOUTHERN 
SPACE 
NORTHERN 
SPACE 
LARGE CITY
(Can hold up to 4 slaves)
SMALL CITY
SLAVE CATCHER 
STARTING SPACE
(Orange)
SEA LANE
REGULAR 
ROUTE
SLAVE CATCHER 
 ROUTE (Orange)
6 PLAYER MATS

Role Cards
Randomly shuffle and deal a Role Card to each player. Your 
Role Card features the Benefits and Special Actions you 
receive during the game. Alternatively, players can select 
which roles they would like to use to help ensure a better 
balance to the game. Any unused cards are returned to 
the game box and will not be used in the game. Find the 
corresponding Player Mat and place your Role Card on it. 
Plantations
Place slaves (tan cubes) into the lightened spaces of the 
plantations on the game board. These indicate the number of 
slaves in the plantations at the beginning of the game.
The Plantation illustration is not a space for slaves to move to. 
A slave’s first move will be into a green southern space or city. 
Slave Market Cards
Create a draw deck of Slave Market Cards 
by selecting cards with the number in the 
bottom right corner that corresponds to the 
number of players in the game. 
Shuffle these cards and place 
them face down on the Slave 
Market Deck space on the game 
board. The remaining cards are 
returned to the game box and will 
not be used in the game. 
Draw cards from this deck to 
fill the 3 empty spaces below 
the Slave Market Deck. These 
represent slaves being delivered to 
market for sale to the Plantations. 
Place the indicated number of 
slave cubes on each market card. 
The Slave Market Cards serve as 
the game’s clock: the game can 
never progress longer than the 
end of the 8th round, when the 
last Slave Market Card has sold 
its last lot of slaves.
Abolitionist Cards
There are 3 types of Abolitionist Cards: General (tan), 
Reserve (white) and Opposition (red-orange). If you are 
playing with 1 or 2 players, remove the cards that indicate they 
are for use with 3 or 4 players.
Separate the General and Reserve Cards into 3 Period Decks 
(1800-1839, 1840-1859, and 1860-1865). Then shuffle into 
these three Period Decks the number of Opposition Cards 
specified in the table below. 
Players	
1800-1839	
1840-1859	
1860-1865
1 or 2	
4 cards	
3 or 4	
4 cards	
5 cards	
Opposition Cards do not specify a particular Period and 
can appear at anytime. Place the 3 shuffled Period Decks 
in the matching Period Columns on the game board. At 
the beginning of the game, only cards from the first Period 
Column (1800-1839) can be used. As the game progresses, 
players will be able to access cards from the other Periods.
Deal 5 cards from the first Period Deck and place them on 
the 5 open spaces of the Abolitionist Queue on the game 
board. During setup, there should only be one Opposition 
Card. If a second Opposition Card appears in the queue, set 
it aside and continue filling the queue from the top of the 
deck until the queue is full. Then reshuffle the deck, 
including any Opposition Cards that were set aside.
Victory Conditions
Select the Victory Conditions Card with the number in its 
upper left corner that corresponds to the number of players 
in the game. Place this card onto the space provided in the 
upper right corner of the game board. The cards are double-
sided: use the white side for a regular game, or the red side for 
a more challenging game.
Starting Funds
Each player starts the game with $8.
Lead Player Lantern 
Randomly determine a Lead Player and give 
them the Lead Player Lantern.
Slave Catcher Markers
Place the 5 Slave Catcher Markers on their 
corresponding colored starting spaces on the 
game board. These spaces are indicated by a 
small circle at the top of the city featuring the 
corresponding colored slave catcher symbol.
Set Up

FREEDOM: THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD 
consists of up to 8 rounds, each of which has 5 phases, played 
in the following order:
1. 	 Slave Catcher Phase
2. 	 Planning Phase
3. 	 Action Phase
4. 	 Slave Market Phase
5. 	 Lantern Phase
The players win the game if: 
1. they move the required number of slaves to freedom 
in Canada as specified on the Victory Conditions 
Card, and
2. they purchase all of the Support Tokens in the game, 
and 
3. they finish the round without losing the game. 
The players lose the game if:
1. 	 the Slaves Lost Track on the Victory Conditions 
Card is filled and another Slave needs to be added, or 
2. 	 they do not win the game before the end of round 8.
1. Slave Catcher Phase
One of the slave catchers may get a tip on the whereabouts 
of some runaway slaves and move unexpectedly to capture 
them. There are 2 dice that determine if this happens. 
The Slave Catcher Die pictures the slave catcher 
colored symbols and determines which slave catcher 
moves.
The Movement Die pictures white and black arrows 
to determine the direction and distance the slave 
catcher moves. 
During the Slave Catcher Phase, the lead player rolls both 
dice. 
If the symbol of the walking slave is rolled, then 
none of the slave catchers move and the phase ends. 
Proceed to the Planning Phase.
If a slave catcher’s symbol is rolled, check the 
Movement Die to see the direction and distance 
this slave catcher moves. The white arrows indicate 
westerly movement and the black arrows indicate easterly 
movement. These arrow symbols are also pictured along the 
colored Slave Catcher Paths on the game board. 
The appropriate slave catcher marker is moved the same 
number of spaces as the number of arrows on the Movement 
Die or until it reaches the end of its path. It only captures 
slaves on the final space it ends its movement. Slaves on 
spaces that were passed over are not captured. Captured slaves 
Game Play
Slave Catcher Dice
Place the 2 Slave Catcher Dice on the 
table within easy reach of the players.
Tokens
Place the grey 
Conductor Tokens on 
their corresponding spaces 
in the Period Columns. 
Then add tokens on top of the grey 
tokens up to the numbers listed on 
the table to the right, according to the 
number of players. The totals listed 
include the grey tokens. 
	
Players	
Token	
Period 1	
Period 2	
Period 3
	
	
	
1800-1839	
1840-1859	
1860-1865
	
	
	
2/2	
1/1	
	
	
	
	
	
3/3	
2/2	
	
	
	
	
	
4/4	
3/3	
	
	
	
	
	
5/5	
4/4	
	
	

are placed consecutively on the Slave Market Cards, beginning 
with the bottom card and continuing upwards, cycling 
around to the bottom Slave Market Card again if necessary. 
After a slave catcher has moved and any captured slaves have 
been placed on the Slave Market Cards, all players proceed to 
the Planning Phase.
2. Planning Phase
During the Planning Phase, each player may take up to 
2 Tokens from the Token Board. At the beginning of the 
game, players may only take tokens from the first Period 
(1800-1839). When future Period Columns become active, 
players may take tokens from any of the active Period 
Columns. 
All players may take tokens during the Planning Phase at 
the same time. A token may only be taken if the player has 
enough money available, players may not give or lend money 
to each other. Since the game is cooperative, players may 
discuss strategies and offer suggestions. If the players are not 
able to come to an agreement on a token choice then the lead 
player - or the player closest to the lead player in a clockwise 
direction - chooses first. 
There are three types of tokens available. 
Support Tokens cost $10 each and remain 
in front of the player during the game. 
Money paid for Support Tokens goes to the 
bank. Their purchase represents the growing 
strength of the Abolitionist Cause and 
determines when future Period Columns also become active 
and their Tokens and Abolitionist Cards become available to 
the players. When the players have collectively purchased all of 
the Support Tokens, they have met one of the game’s Victory 
Conditions (see Game End & Winning, page 10). 
Conductor Tokens allow players to move 
slaves along paths during the Action Phase. 
They represent the efforts of men and women 
offering refuge and guiding slaves along the 
Underground Railroad. The number above 
the cube on the token is how many slaves can be moved, 
and the number above the arrow is how many spaces each of 
these slaves can move.
The cost in dollars to purchase a Conductor Token is listed 
above the token symbol on the Token Board, inside a gold 
circle. Money paid for Conductor Tokens goes to the bank. 
The Conductor Token pictured above costs $2 in the 1800-1839 Period 
and allows a player to move 3 separate slaves a single space each.
Fundraising Tokens cost nothing and are one way in which 
players can raise money during the game. They 
represent the raising of funds and supplies to 
support the Abolitionist Cause.
There are two types of Fundraising tokens. The 
Fundraising Tokens available during the first 
two Periods raise $1 for each slave on a green Southern space. 
The Fundraising Tokens available during the last Period raise 
$1 for each slave in a blue Northern city.
Once all players have taken their tokens, play proceeds to 
the Action Phase.
When the last Support Token in the currently active 
Period Column is taken, the game is immediately paused 
and two changes take effect:
1. 	 The Abolitionist Card Deck in the currently active 
Period Column is removed from the game. Any of 
the current Period’s Abolitionist Cards already in the 
Abolitionist Queue remain where they are. Any new 
cards will be drawn from the next Period’s Abolitionist 
Card Deck. 
2. 	 The next Period Column is activated and its tokens are 
now immediately available to be taken by all players. 
3. Action Phase
During the Action Phase each player, beginning with the 
current lead player and continuing clockwise around the 
board, may take several actions. 
A player may take any or all of the following Actions in any 
order: 
- Gain his Role Card’s Benefit.
- Use his Role Card’s one time Special Ability.
- Play a Conductor or Fundraising Token.
- Play a second Conductor or Fundraising Token. 
Players may take their actions in any order. Each action must 
be completed before another action may be taken. 
Alternatively, a player may pass their Action Phase, 
relinquishing all actions. Instead, the player may take funds 
from the bank - $3 during the first Period (1800-1839), 
$4 during the second Period (1840-1859) and $5 during the 
third Period (1860-1865). 
Once a player has taken all of the actions he wishes to take, 
play continues clockwise to the next player. After all players 
have taken their actions, the games proceeds to the Slave 
Market Phase.

Conductor Tokens 
These tokens allow a player to move a 
specified number of slaves a specified 
number of spaces. A player may choose to 
move a slave less than the movement value 
pictured on the token. A single slave may 
not be moved twice with the same Conductor Token. 
While it is not possible to move the same slave twice using a 
single Conductor Token, a slave already moved can be moved 
again by using another Conductor Token, an Abolitionist 
Card, or as a result of the player’s Role Benefit.
Slaves may move along any of the paths that connect cities 
and spaces on the board, regardless of color. Players may 
choose to move a slave in any direction, including backwards, 
to either gain financial aid or to draw the attention of the 
slave catchers on the board. 
When a slave completes its movement, two things may occur 
based on the last space it moved into. 
First, if the space has a gold circle with a number above 
it, the player who moved the slave receives that amount 
of money from the bank. This money represents aid and 
contributions from the local communities as the slave is on 
the run. 
Next, if the space is connected to one or more Slave Catcher 
Paths, the slave has drawn the attention of slave catchers. 
Any slave catchers that match the colors of connecting Slave 
Catcher Paths move 1 space each along the matching colored 
path towards the slave that triggered the movement. 
If a slave catcher moves into a space in which there 
is a slave, that slave is captured and placed on the bottom 
Slave Market Card. If there are multiple slaves in the space, 
they are placed consecutively on the Slave Market Cards, 
beginning with the bottom card and continuing upwards, 
cycling around to the bottom Slave Market Card again if 
necessary. 
Players may wish to sacrifice a slave so that others may 
make their way towards freedom. As always, discussion is 
encouraged as players work out the best strategy for taking 
their actions.
Example: A player is moving 2 slaves a single space each. The 
slave arriving in St. Louis (1) would receive $2 in aid and 
trigger the purple slave catcher to move one space closer towards 
the slave, stopping in Newport (2). The other slave that moved 
(3) would not receive any aid and would trigger the yellow slave 
catcher (4). The yellow slave catcher would move into the same 
space as the slave, capturing it and sending it to the bottom Slave 
Market Card.
Some Conductor Tokens allow slaves to move two spaces. 
Slaves moving two spaces may not move through spaces that 
contain slave catcher tokens, but they may move through a 
space containing another slave. As with any slave movement, 
only the last space the slave moved into determines if any 
money is gained and if any slave catchers are triggered. They 
do not trigger slave catcher movement or gain any money for 
spaces they move through.
When moving slaves, all of the small cities and spaces can 
only hold a single slave. A slave cannot finish its movement 
in a circle or oval space which already contains a slave. 
However, the large square cities can hold up to 4 slaves. 
When moving a slave into Canada, place them in one of the 
spaces provided. The spaces are numbered to help track how 
close the players are to victory.
Example: A player is moving 
a slave two spaces. He moves 
the slave through the Southern 
space and finishes his move in 
Newport. The slave does not 
trigger the yellow slave catcher 
because he did not finish his 
movement on the Southern 
space. He receives $1 and 
triggers the purple slave catcher.

Conductor Token Limits
Token set up varies depending on the 
number of players (see Setup, page 4). Token 
numbers are limited; they are removed 
from the game once played. 
The exception is the last Conductor 
Token (colored grey) available for purchase in each of the 
Conductor token stacks. When this is played, it is returned 
to the Token Board and is immediately available for purchase 
again. Therefore players will always have access to at least one 
token from each of the Conductor stacks throughout the 
game.
Fundraising Tokens 
These allow a player to raise funds to aid the Abolitionist 
Cause. There are two types of tokens available during the 
course of the game. 
During the first two Periods, the Fundraising Tokens feature 
a green circle. When played, these tokens give the player $1 
for each slave in a green Southern city or Southern space.
During the final Period of the game, the 1860-1865 
Fundraising tokens feature a blue circle. These tokens give 
the player $1 for each slave in a blue Northern city. The large 
cities of Chicago, Boston and New York can hold up to 4 
slaves, and each slave in these cities raises $1.
Action: Buying Abolitionist Cards
A player may purchase a single Abolitionist Card from 
the Abolitionist Queue during their Action Phase. The 
Abolitionist Queue consists of 5 cards played face up on 
the table on the five Abolitionist Queue spaces located on 
the bottom of the Token Board. Any Abolitionist Cards 
purchased from the Abolitionist Queue during the Action 
Phase are not replaced until the the Lantern Phase at the 
end of the round. To purchase a card, pay its cost to the bank. 
The cost is indicated by the number in the gold circle above 
the space that the card occupies.
There are 3 types of cards in the Abolitionist Deck: General 
(tan), Reserve (white) and Opposition (red-orange). 
Most cards can be purchased by a player, except for a few 
Opposition Cards which state they cannot be purchased.
To purchase a card, pay its cost to the bank. A card may only 
be purchased if the player has enough money available before 
the purchase and not as a result of money gained from the 
card. Also, players may not give or lend money to each other 
unless a card allows them to do so.
General Abolitionist Cards are 
resolved immediately when purchased 
and are then discarded. 
Reserve Abolitionist Cards are 
usually placed on a Player Mat when 
purchased. A player may only have one 
Reserve Card on his Mat at a time. If 
a player purchases a new Reserve Card 
before an old one is used, the old card 
is discarded without being resolved. 
If a Reserve Card is usable during the 
Action Phase, it may be used the same 
turn it is purchased by the player.
Opposition Abolitionist Cards 
negatively impact game play. Each card 
specifies when its effect takes place. It 
can take effect while the card is in the 
Abolitionist Queue, when the card is 
purchased, or when the card is removed 
from the Abolitionist Queue during 
the Lantern Phase. 
Opposition 
Abolitionist Card
During any player’s Action
Phase, ignore the movement 
of one Slave Catcher if they
would capture a Slave, then
One of the most powerful forces in the Underground 
Railroad, Levi Coffin helped thousands of slaves 
prior to and after emancipation.
Fundraising Token
Small Northern City 
Large Northern City
(Can hold up to 4 slaves.)
Fundraising Token
Small Southern City 
Southern Space 

Common Card Features
The player may move a specified 
number of slaves a specified 
number of spaces. 
The player may purchase a single 
token at full cost during the 
Planning Phase.
The player may purchase a single 
token with the shown discount.
The player may take a token 
at no cost.
Slave catchers do not 
move while the player is 
moving slaves.
Exchange the position of two 
cards in the Abolitionist Queue. 
A player cannot exchange a card 
with an empty space.
Each player receives $X 
Some General Cards allow slaves to move to indicated 
locations with no effect. This means that this movement 
does not raise money or trigger slave catchers, as normal 
movement would. 
If an indicated location is occupied by slave catchers or filled 
to capacity by other slaves, the move may not be made. 
+2
Player Role Cards
Each player has a role that gives them unique benefits in 
the game. Each Role Card is double sided. Players begin the 
game with the Role Card face up on Side I.
Action: Role Card Benefits
Role Benefits are listed at the top of the card above the role’s 
image. Players receive their benefits each round during their 
Action Phase. The one exception is the Shepherd’s 
‘-$1 Conductor Token Cost’ discount, which can be used 
during the Planning and Action Phases. 
Action: Role Card Special Ability
The Special Ability is listed at the bottom of the card below 
the role’s image. A Special Ability may only be used once 
during the game and the phase of the game in which it may 
be used is indicated. Once used, flip the Role Card over to 
Side II to show that the Special Ability has been used. 
Some Role Benefits differ from Side I to Side II. 
front - Side I
Role card 
back - Side II
At the beginning of your
Action Phase, discard 
an Abolitionist Card from
the queue. Ignore any of the 
card’s events that may be
resolved by doing so.
+$2 during Action Phase.

4. Slave Market Phase
During the Slave Market Phase, slaves are sold to the 
plantations in the South. The slaves on the bottom-most Slave 
Market Card are moved to available plantation spaces. 
Players choose to place the slaves in any of the open spaces 
in one or more of the plantations. Slaves previously in the 
plantations can not be rearranged; only the incoming slaves 
may be placed freely. Once slaves have been placed they may 
not be rearranged later. 
If there are no open spaces in the Plantations for some or all 
of the incoming slaves, they are instead placed on the Slaves 
Lost Track on the Victory Conditions Card. 
If the players have to add an additional slave after the last 
Slaves Lost Space is filled, the players have lost the game (see 
Game End & Winning, page 10).
After the slaves on the bottom Slave Market Card have 
been placed, the card is removed from the game and the 
remaining cards slide one space down. A new Slave Market 
Card is drawn and placed in the empty space and the specified 
number of slaves are placed on the card.
The game has eight Slave Market Cards, one for each round in 
the game. The game can be won or lost before round eight, but 
must end at the end of round eight. 
5. Lantern Phase
During the Lantern Phase the Abolitionist Card Queue is 
restocked for the following round. First, discard any card that 
is in the right most space in the Abolitionist Queue. For 1 or 
2 players, discard any cards in the two right most spaces. A 
General or Reserve Card is simply discarded. An Opposition 
Card will state if it is resolved when removed and discarded. 
Then slide any remaining cards to the right and draw new 
cards to fill in the now-empty spaces, starting with the right-
most empty space.
When filling the Abolitionist Queue, only one new Opposition 
Card from the deck may be added. Any Opposition Cards 
already in the queue remain. If the player draws more than 
one new Opposition Card they are placed to the side. Once 
the queue is full, take any Opposition Cards set aside and 
shuffle them back into the Abolitionist Period Deck currently 
being used. In the rare case there are only Opposition Cards 
remaining, they are placed in the queue.
Once the Abolitionist Queue has been filled, the game’s 
Victory Conditions are checked. If the game is not ended, pass 
the Player Lantern Token clockwise to the next player. A new 
round begins.
Example: It is a 4 player game, the card John Greenleaf Whittier 
is discarded, and the two remaining cards are moved across to 
occupy the two right hand most spaces of the queue. Three new cards 
are drawn to fill the empty spaces from the least expensive (right-
most space) to the most expensive (left-most space).

Game End & Winning
The players win the game if they are able to purchase all 
of the Support Tokens from all three Periods and move 
the required number of slaves (as indicated on the Victory 
Conditions Card) to Canada before the end of round eight. 
With good play and coordination, players may fulfill the 
Victory Conditions and end the game before round eight.
The round in which the players achieve both Victory 
Conditions is the last round of the game. However, the 
players do not instantly win - they still need to finish the 
round without losing. This means that the players must 
unload that round’s Slave Market Card and deal with any 
Opposition Cards that may be resolved in the Lantern Phase 
without causing them to lose the game.
The players lose the game if they are unable to achieve 
both Victory Conditions before the end of round eight. 
Additionally, the players immediately lose the game if the 
Slaves Lost Track on the Victory Conditions Card is filled 
and another slave needs to be added. 
Losing the game does not mean an end to the Abolitionist 
struggle. While the group was not able to bring about the 
changes they wanted to see through their efforts, countless 
others will continue their good work until all people are free 
from the scourge of slavery.
Scoring
Players wishing to compare how they play from game to 
game may keep score as follows:
2 points for each slave freed.
Minus 1 point for each slave lost.
10 points for freeing all the required slaves.
10 points for purchasing all of the 	required 	
 Support Tokens.
If the game was won, 5 points for each 
	
Slave Market Card still left in the queue.
One and Two Players
FREEDOM: THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD 
may be played as a solo or 2-player game. When setting up 
the game, remove the Abolitionist Cards that indicate they 
are for use with 3 or 4 players. Also, during the Lantern 
Phase, discard any cards in the two right-most spaces of the 
Abolitionist Queue as indicated below. 
Adjusting Difficulty
For easier play, use any or all of these 
adjustments:
1. 	 When rolling the Movement Die, treat any triple 
movement results as a free slave movement result, 
meaning no slave catcher movement happens this 
round.
2. 	 Each player starts with $10.
3. 	 During setup, leave the center Plantation (4 spaces)
empty.
For more difficult play, use any or all of these 
adjustments:
1. 	 Start the game with all of the plantations full rather 
than just filled on the lightened spaces.
2. 	 Add an additional Support Token to Period 2 (the 
game comes with 1 additional Support Token for this 
purpose).

Fugitive Slave Act
When triggered, 3 slaves in 
spaces connected to slave 
catchers are captured and 
sent back to the bottom-most 
Slave Market Card. If there 
are more than 3 to choose 
from, the players may select 
which slaves are captured. 
Slaves not connected to the the slave catcher’s 
path can be captured. If it is the last round of 
the game and there are no Slave Market Cards 
left, the slaves are returned to the plantations. 
This card may be purchased to be resolved 
earlier.
Gag Rules 
This card does not prevent 
players from purchasing 
tokens during the Action 
Phase. This effect lasts until 
the card is removed from the 
queue. It can be purchased 
to be removed.
George Fitzhugh 
This card’s effect can 
interact with other cards 
that make tokens less 
expensive. This card only 
goes away after making its 
way through the queue or 
through the effects of an 
Abolitionist or Role Card.
John C. Calhoun 
Both large and small 
Northern (blue) 
cities bring $1 less when 
local funds are contributed 
as the result of slave 
movement into the space. 
Fundraising is not affected 
by this card. This effect lasts 
until the card is removed 
from the queue. This card only goes away 
after making its way through the queue or 
through the effects of an Abolitionist Card 
or Role Card Special Action.
Nat Turner Rebellion 
Players can never go back 
a Period. Support Tokens 
always go on the current 
Period’s pile. If players have 
no tokens, the card has no 
effect. This card may be 
purchased to be resolved 
earlier.
Role Cards
Role Special Action: Slaves 
removed from the Slave 
Market Cards on the board 
are put back into the supply 
and are available to be used 
again.
player gets 5 movement 
points and may devote it all 
to a single slave or split it 
between several slaves. (i.e. 
2 slaves 2 spaces and one 
slave 1 space, or 1 slave 4 
spaces and another 1 space.) 
The last space each slave moves into provides 
any income and triggers any Slave Catchers. 
player may discard a card 
from the Abolitionist 
Queue at the beginning of 
his or her Action Phase. 
This includes Opposition 
Cards that may not be 
purchased. These do not get 
resolved.
Role Benefit: The one 
exception is the Shepherd’s 
‘-$1 Conductor Token Cost’ 
discount, which can be used 
during the Planning and 
Action Phases. 
Role Special Action: When 
moving slaves to New York, 
the player may move less than 2 slaves. If the 
player does move 2 slaves, they may come 
from different plantations. Through this 
movement you may not exceed New York’s 
normal 4 slave capacity. 
Station Master 
Role Benefit: When the 
player moves slaves he may 
select one slave catcher that 
would move as the result of 
a slave’s movement and not 
move that slave catcher. This 
may be used for any type of 
action. 
Role Special Action: The Station Master’s 
special action (stopping all the slave catcher 
movement) only affects Conductor token 
movement. For the one player game, this 
player may target him or herself.
Stock Holder 
player’s token purchase is 
limited to those available, 
he or she may not buy 
ahead. If the player has not 
spent to the token limit, he 
or she may use the newly 
acquired token.
Opposition Cards
1850 Compromise 
Each Fundraising Act 
brings in $2 less. If a player 
plays 2 Fundraising tokens 
on their turn, both are 
affected. This effect lasts 
until the card is removed 
from the queue. It can be 
purchased to be removed.
Domestic Slave Trade
This affects all current and 
future Slave Market Cards 
while this card remains in 
the queue. The slaves do not 
go away when the card does. 
Additionally, if the card 
comes back, new slaves are 
added. This card only goes 
away after making its way 
through the queue or through the effects of 
an Abolitionist Card or Role Card Special 
Action.
Dred Scott Case
The players may select 
which slaves get returned to 
the plantations. They may 
not come from Canada. This 
card may be purchased to be 
resolved earlier.
Elijah P. Lovejoy
When Fundraising, only 
slaves in large cities count 
for drawing funds. This 
effect lasts until the card is 
removed from the queue. 
It can be purchased to be 
removed.
Farren Riots 
Remove from the game 
the top Conductor and 
Fundraising Tokens from 
the current Period Column. 
This does not include any 
grey Conductor Tokens. 
This card may be purchased 
to be resolved earlier.
During the Planning
Phase, remove one Slave
from each of the Slave
Market deliveries currently
on the board and return
them to the supply.
use five movements for one or 
more Slaves. You can move one 
Slave five spaces or split it up 
amongst as many Slaves as 
you wish.
At the beginning of your
Action Phase, discard 
an Abolitionist Card from
the queue. Ignore any of the 
card’s events that may be
resolved by doing so.
move up to two plantation 
Slaves to New York, 
-$1 Conductor Token Cost 
during Planning and Action 
Phases.
During another player’s Action 
Phase, Conductor Tokens don’t 
move any of the Slave Catchers.
Move one Slave Catcher one 
less space during Action Phase.
Station Master
spend three tokens.
Once per Action Phase, 
purchase a Token after taking 
a Fundraising Action.
Stockholder
Fugitive Slave Act
Up to three Slaves in spaces
next to Slave Catchers 
are captured.
After the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, former owners had 
more tools to help recapture former slaves, including: 
posses, federal marshals and bounty hunters.
Gag Rules
Players may only purchase
ONE token during the
planning phase.
Pro-slavery forces set up a series of procedural rules that 
prevented any petitions to abolish slavery from ever
coming to light in Congress.
George Fitzhugh
Support Tokens cost 
$1 more to purchase.
Fitzhugh, a slavery-based social theorist, wrote 
of the inferiority of black race and the values 
of slavery in several books.
John C. Calhoun
Northern (blue) cities bring in 
$1 LESS than normal.
In addition to being the 7th Vice President of the United 
States, Calhoun was also an vocal supporter of slavery 
as a positive good and not a necessary evil.
Nat Turner Slave Rebellion
If Support Tokens have been 
purchased by the group, return 
one to the currently activate
Action Token row.
Turner led a slave rebellion that resulted in 56 deaths, 
including women and children and caused tighter 
restrictions for both slaves and free blacks in the south.
1850 Compromise
Fundraising Actions bring
in $2 LESS than they 
normally would.
While defusing the confrontation between slave 
and free states, it also strengthened the Fugitive 
Slave Act of 1793.
Domestic Slave Trade
Each Slave Market delivery
carries one additional Slave.
Domestic Slave Trade became a major economic 
force, lasting until the 1860’s at which time the slave 
population had reached four million.
Dred Scott Decision
Move 3 non-plantation
Slaves back to the
plantations.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1857 that slaves and their 
descendants were not protected by the Constitution 
and could not be citizens.
Elijah P. Lovejoy
Fundraising Tokens only
draw funds from Large Cities.
Lovejoy, editor of the antislavery paper ‘The 
Alton Observer’ was shot by a pro-slavery mob as they 
attempted to burn down his warehouse.
Farren Riots
Remove from the game 
the top Conductor and 
Fundraising Tokens from the 
current Period Column.
Four nights of rioting erupted on Wednesday, 
July 9 1834 in New York City as a result 
of anti-abolitionist activity.

Kansas-Nebraska 
Act 
The player can switch any 
2 cards in the Abolitionist 
Queue. They may not switch 
a card with an empty space.
Period 3 (1860 - 1865)
Civil War
The player may use this card 
to ignore the movement of 
the Slave Catchers during 
one action (ie. movement 
from a Conductor Token, 
Role, or an Abolitionist 
Card).
General Cards 
Period 1 (1800 - 1839)
David Walker 
The player may purchase 2 
tokens at a discount of $2 
each.
John Greenleaf 
Whittier
The purchasing player may 
exchange the position of 
2 cards in the Abolitionist 
Queue. They may not 
exchange a card with an 
empty space.
Lane Theological 
Seminary 
Move 2 slaves a single space 
or purchase a token at a 
The Liberator 
The player may place 1 
card from the Abolitionist 
Queue back on top of the 
current age’s Abolitionist 
deck.
Liberty Hill 
Move 2 slaves a single 
space and purchase a token 
at full cost.
New York 
Manumission 
Society 
Ohio River 
Move 3 slaves a single 
space.
Ripley, Ohio 
Move 2 slaves a single 
space. Slave catchers do 
not move as a result of the 
movement, but money is 
raised.
Southern Church 
Correspondence 
$2 from the bank.
St. Catharines, 
Ontario 
Move 1 slave from a large 
Northern city to Canada.
Theodore Weld 
Move 1 slave from any 
plantation to a Southern 
space, with no effect.
NJ Abolishes Slavery 
Players may use their roles 
or Abolitionist Cards 
to move slaves into blue 
Northern cities. This effect 
lasts until the card is removed 
from the queue. It can be 
purchased to be removed.
Reopening Trade 
The slaves are only added 
once, when the card is 
triggered. This card may be 
purchased to be resolved 
earlier. If it is the last round 
of the game and there are 
no Slave Market Cards left, 
place only 2 slaves into the 
plantations.
Reserve Cards 
Period 1 (1800 - 1839)
Congress Outlaws 
International Slave Trade 
During the Slave Market 
Phase, the owner of this card 
may lessen the number of 
slaves put on the new Slave 
Market Card by paying $3 
to not load a slave (up to 2 
slaves). This may be used 
repeatedly for multiple cards 
as this card does not discard. 
The card may be replaced by purchasing 
another Reserve card.
The player may only stop the 
movement of a slave catcher 
if they would capture a slave. 
This may only be used once 
and is then discarded.
Period 2 (1840 - 1859)
Charles Sumner Attacked 
in Congress 
Once purchased, the 
owner gains $1 during 
their Action Phase while 
the card remains unused. 
Additionally, it may be 
used at any time during the 
Abolitionist Phase to give a 
single player money.
NJ Abolishes Slavery
Slaves may not be moved into 
or out of Northern (blue) Cities 
using Conductor Tokens.
New Jersey was the last of the Northern states to 
abolish slavery. Though some remained “apprentices” 
until the 13th Amendment.
Kansas-Nebraska Act
At the beginning of the Action
Phase, discard this card 
to switch positions of two
Abolitionist Cards in the Queue.
By including that voters would determine the status of 
slavery, politicians turned territorial expansions into a 
collision point of the abolitionist movement.
Liberty Hill
John Rankin’s house atop a 540 foot hill stood 
as a beacon for slaves crossing the river, letting 
them know when it was safe.
Move two slaves one space each 
and purchase a token at full cost.
NY Manumission Society
Working to abolish slavery in NY for 71 years, 
its ranks included powerful political leaders 
such as Alexander Hamilton.
Purchase a token 
at a $3 discount. 
Ohio River
The river was often referred to as the 
“Jordan River” by slaves on the run, as they 
crossed it to freedom in the North.
Move three slaves 
one space each.
Ripley, Ohio
Ripley’s adjacency to the Ohio River and its 
proximity to the slave state of Kentucky made 
it an important stop on the railroad.
Move two slaves one space each, 
they do not trigger Slave Catchers.
Southern Church Correspondence
Churches were often one of the few places 
slaves were allowed to congregate allowing 
mail to be passed along.
Each player receives $2 
+2
St. Catharines, Ontario
St. Catharines was the f inal stop on the Underground 
Railroad for hundreds of slaves in the 1820‘s.
Move one slave from a northern 
large city to Canada.
Theodore Weld
An architect of the abolitionist movement, Weld 
also co-authored American Slavery As It Is: 
Testimonial of 1000 Witnesses.
Move one slave from any plantation 
to a southern space, with no effect.
Civil War
During one of this player’s
Action Phases, ignore the
movement of all Slave Catchers
during a single action, then
Hundreds of thousands of slaves escaped across 
Union lines over the course of the war. Many went 
on to serve as soldiers.
David Walker
David Walker’s ‘Appeal to Coloured Citizens of 
the World’ called for black citizens to work against 
oppression through education and religion.
Purchase two tokens at a 
discount of $2 each.
John Greenleaf Whittier
A founding member of the American Anti-
Slavery Society, Whittier was a strong 
political lobbyist and poet.
Exchange the position of two cards 
in the Abolitionist Queue.
Lane Theological Seminary
One of the f irst public dialogs on the slavery was 
organized by Theodore Dwight Weld and held over 
18 days at the Seminary in 1834.
Move two slaves one space each OR 
purchase a token at a $2 discount.
The Liberator
The Liberator, an abolitionist newspaper 
published by William Lloyd Garrison, ran 
continuously for 35 years.
Place one card in the Abolitionist 
Queue back on top of the current 
age’s Abolitionist Deck.
Reopening Trade
Add 2 Slaves to each Slave 
Market Card currently 
on the board.
Having knowledge of when the slave trade would end, 
Georgia and S. Carolina reopened trade and imported 
about 100,000 slaves over between 1800 and 1808.
Congress Outlaws 
International Slave Trade
During the Slave Market Phase, 
pay $3 to not load a Slave onto the 
newest Slave Market Card. May 
pay for up to 2 Slaves per card. 
DOES NOT DISCARD.
In 1794, Congress restricted the use of ships and imposed 
heavy f ines for those involved in the international 
transportation of slaves.
During any player’s Action
Phase, ignore the movement 
of one Slave Catcher if they
would capture a Slave, then
One of the most powerful forces in the Underground 
Railroad, Levi Coffin helped thousands of slaves 
prior to and after emancipation.
Charles Sumner Attacked in Congress
+$1 UNTIL USED
During the Action Phase, 
give one other player money 
then discard this card.
Sumner was beaten with a cane by the nephew 
of Senator Douglas, after Sumner verbally 
berated him earlier in Senate.

Period 2 (1840 - 1859)
Amistad Rebellion 
The player may move 2 
slaves from the bottom Slave 
Market Card directly to 
Anthony Burns 
Move 1 slave from a large 
Northern city directly to 
Bleeding Kansas 
Move 2 slaves from 
Southern spaces to 
any 1 large Northern city, 
with no effects, and discard 
any Abolitionist Cards in 
the $2 or $3 spaces. Any 
cards removed are not 
triggered. 
Move 2 slaves a single space 
and purchase 2 tokens at 
Harpers Ferry 
reduced cost and discard 
any Abolitionist Cards to 
the left of this card. They do 
not trigger.
Move 4 slaves a single 
space. The movement does 
not trigger slave catchers.
Henry “Box” Brown 
The player can move a 
single slave from 
any plantation to a large 
Northern city, with no 
effect. 
John Brown 
The player can purchase a 
token for a reduced cost 
and they must draw and 
resolve the next Abolitionist 
Card from the top of the 
current period’s Abolitionist 
Deck. Opposition Cards are 
placed in the spot that this 
card occupied in the queue. 
John Price Rescue 
The player can move a slave 
from any Northern space 
directly to Canada.
Lincoln-Douglas 
Debates 
The North Star 
The player may place 1 
card from the Abolitionist 
Queue back on top of the 
current age’s Abolitionist 
deck.
Oberlin, Ohio 
The player may move 4 
slaves a single space or 
purchase a token for a 
Uncle Tom’s Cabin 
The player may purchase a 
token at reduced cost and 
swap the places of 2 cards in 
the Abolitionist Queue. The 
player may not swap a card 
with an empty space.
Vigilance 
Committees 
$3 from the bank.
William Lloyd 
Garrison 
Take a free token and move 
all of the slave catchers 1 
space towards the nearest 
slave. If there are more than 
1 slave the same distance 
away, the players may decide 
which way to move.
Period 3 (1860 - 1865)
The player can move 3 
slaves a single space and 
purchase a token at a 
Contrabands 
The player can move up 
to 3 slaves from Southern 
spaces to Northern spaces 
up to 2 movements away, 
with no effect. Northern 
spaces do not include 
Northern cities. Slaves 
can move through Slave 
Catchers. 
Cooper Union 
Speech 
The player can move 3 
slaves a single space or 
purchase a token at full cost.
Election of 1860 
The player receives $1 for 
each slave in large Northern 
cities.
Follow the 
Drinking Gourd 
The player may take 1 slave 
from the Lost Slaves space 
on the Victory Conditions 
card and place it in a large 
Northern city, with no 
effect.
$4 from the bank.
Amistad Rebellion
A group of slaves who had been kidnapped and sold into 
slavery, rebelled on the Amistad schooner in 1839.
The Supreme Court ruled in their favor.
Move two slaves from the nearest 
Slave Market Card directly to Canada.
John Brown
John Brown saw armed insurrection as a means 
to bring an end to slavery in the U.S.
Purchase a token at a $5 discount 
AND then draw and resolve the 
next Abolitionist Card.
-5
+
William Lloyd Garrison
“I am in earnest – I will not equivocate 
– I will not excuse – I will not retreat a single inch 
– AND I WILL BE HEARD.”
Take a token for free AND move 
all of the Slave Catchers one space 
towards the nearest slave.
Anthony Burns
Burns’ arrest and trial under the Fugitive Slave 
Act brought protests and riots. Burns eventually 
settled in Canada.
Move one slave from a large 
Northern City directly to Canada.
John Price Rescue
A group of rescuers from Oberlin and 
Wellington, Ohio stormed a hotel and rescued 
Price from being returned.
Move one slave from any 
plantation to a large Northern City, 
While Lincoln’s personal desire was to have all 
men free, his decisions were f irst driven by 
the need to preserve the Union.
Move three slaves one space each 
AND purchase a token at a 
$3 discount.
Bleeding Kansas
The Kansas-Nebraska Act let Kansas’ entry as 
a free or slave state be decided by its inhabitants, 
triggering mass immigration.
Move two slaves from southern spaces 
to a large Northern City with no effect 
AND discard any Abolitionist Cards 
remaining in the $2 or $3 spots.
Lincoln-Douglas Debates
Lincoln’s stance on slavery took shape over the course 
of the 1850‘s, gaining some of the strongest attention 
during his debates with Stephen Douglas in 1858.
Purchase a token at a $3 discount.
Contrabands
Early in the war, hundreds of thousands of slaves 
escaped across Union lines prompting the building 
of camps and schools for them.
Move up to three slaves in small Southern 
spaces to small Northern spaces up to 
two spaces away, with no effect.
Douglass traveled to Great Britain, published 
newspapers, and spoke on the condition of the black 
race as well as women’s rights.
Move two slaves one space each 
AND purchase up to two tokens at 
a discount of $2 each.
The North Star
Frederick Douglass used the North Star as 
a vehicle for exploring the Constitution, 
emancipation and women’s rights.
Place one card in the Abolitionist 
Queue back on top of the current 
age’s Abolitionist Deck.
Cooper Union Speech
One of Lincoln’s longest speeches, it helped secure 
his nomination for president and more fully laid 
out his views against slavery.
Move three slaves one space each 
OR purchase a token at full cost.
Harpers Ferry
John Brown lead an unsuccessful raid on the armory 
in Harpers Ferry, hoping to gain munitions. It served 
as a catalyst for the Civil War.
Purchase a token at a $2 discount 
AND discard any Abolitionist Cards 
to the left of this card.
Oberlin, Ohio
Oberlin was a very active point along the 
Underground Railroad with the majority of the 
town helping to aid fugitive slaves.
Move four slaves a single space OR 
purchase a token at a $4 discount.
-4
Election of 1860
Lincoln, who opposed the spread of slavery to new 
western states, achieved victory without a single 
southern state’s support.
Receive $1 for each slave in large 
Northern Cities.
+1
Tubman made 13 trips, rescuing over 
70 slaves before the Civil War.
Move four slaves one space each, 
they do not trigger Slave Catchers.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin
Uncle Tom’s Cabin began its life as a serial in the 
abolitionist periodical, National Era. When published, 
it sold 300,000 copies the first year.
Purchase a token at a $3 discount 
AND Swap the places of two cards 
in the Abolitionist Queue.
Follow the Drinkin’ Gourd
The Drinking Gourd is a reference to the big dipper 
constellation that is in the northern sky.
Retrieve one lost slave from the victory 
conditions card and place it back in a 
large Northern City, with no effect.
Henry “Box” Brown
Brown shipped himself to freedom in a box by 
wagon, railroad, steamboat, wagon, railroad, 
ferry, railroad and wagon.
Move one slave from any 
plantation to a large Northern City, 
Vigilance Committees
Vigilance committees were formed in response 
to the Fugitive Slave Act, advocating and 
supporting resistance.
Each player receives $3 
+3
During the Civil War, Douglass fought for the 
rights of black soldiers and to ensure that ending 
slavery was a goal of the war.
Each player receives $4 
+4

Harriet Beecher 
Stowe 
The player may purchase a 
token at a reduced cost.
Move 2 slaves from any 
plantations in the south 
directly to Canada.
The player may move 2 
slaves from a single large 
Northern city directly to 
The States’ Movement
The United State’s troubled past with slavery dates from before 
the thirteen colonies joined as a nation and continues to echo as 
racial tensions today. Human bondage has impacted nearly every 
civilization, and each of them have justified, outlawed and dealt with 
the issue in their own way. For the United States, the formal end to 
slavery began on January 1, 1863 when President Abraham Lincoln 
issued the Emancipation Proclamation. 
The Proclamation declared all slaves 
within the Confederate States free, 
though the president could not force 
the Southern States to abide by the 
proclamation while the American Civil 
War raged. Though slavery would 
continue in the United States until the 
ratification of the 13th Amendment in 
1865, the Emancipation Proclamation 
signaled to many that the tradition of 
slavery in the United States was coming 
to an end. Such a great change was 
not achieved by politicians and lawmakers alone. The hard work of 
Abolitionists, citizens who risked their safety and freedom to bring 
an end to slavery, served as the foundation for this move towards 
freedom. 
From Revolution to the Age of Immediatism
In 1776, the Continental Congress adopted the Declaration of 
Independence announcing that the original 13 colonies considered 
themselves separate from the British Empire. Though the colonies 
had declared themselves independent and free, the slaves that 
inhabited the new nation were not given the same liberty. Despite 
the Declaration of Independence’s statement that “all men are created 
equal”, almost every state supported slavery during the founding 
of the nation. But the concept of slavery was falling out of fashion 
with many European and American statesmen, religious leaders and 
philosophers of the day. 
The efforts of abolitionists continued throughout the American 
Revolutionary War. The concept of liberty, which was such an 
integral part of the Declaration of Independence, was often used to 
support arguments against slavery by revolutionary era figures such as 
Thomas Jefferson. In 1780, the Pennsylvania Legislature passed ‘An 
Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery’, 
which banned importation of slaves to 
Pennsylvania and required that all future 
children in Pennsylvania born into slavery 
be freed when they reached 28 years of 
age. This type of gradual abolition was a 
common theme for late 18th and early 
19th century abolitionists. Anti-slavery 
advocates, such as Benjamin Franklin, were 
convinced that a slow transition from a 
slave state to a free nation was necessary. 
Harriet Beecher Stowe
It is claimed that when Lincoln met Stowe shortly 
after the start of the Civil War, he said, “So this is the 
little lady who made this big war.”
Purchase a token at a $5 discount.
-5
During the war Tubman lead an armed assault on 
plantations in the south, gaining supplies and 
freeing hundreds of slaves.
Move two slaves from any plantations 
in the south directly to Canada.
As many as 60 slaves a month were helped to freedom 
through Still, with detailed records kept on each.
Move two slaves from a single large 
Northern City directly to Canada.
It was believed that changing too quickly would bring about a state 
of chaos; something to be avoided at all costs. Several other states 
followed Pennsylvania’s lead, and by 1804 all states north of the 
Mason-Dixon Line had either abolished slavery or created gradual 
abolition laws similar to Pennsylvania’s. 
Abolition activities from 1800-1835 tended to focus on three main 
objectives. Politically voicing opinions against slavery; giving legal 
aid to kidnapped free blacks and fugitive slaves; and, finally, building 
educational and financial support for free black communities. The 
‘Act for Gradual Abolition’ had formed a border against slavery along 
the Mason-Dixon Line. Many fugitive slaves attempted to reach 
the North in the hope of achieving freedom and Abolitionist groups 
were there to assist them. 
The Age of Immediatism, 1830-1860
Slavery in the South continued to expand 
despite the banning of the international 
export and import of slaves by the United 
States in 1808. Slavery had simply become 
too important to the production of cash 
crops, such as tobacco and cotton, which 
in turn had a major impact on the national 
economy. 
Many began to feel that previous attempts 
at abolition were not working and additional 
more urgent measures needed to be taken. 
John Brown, for example, 
called for immediate 
action and led several 
skirmishes, including the 
raid on Harpers Ferry in 
1859 where he and his 
followers attempted to 
capture munitions for use 
in an armed slave revolt. 
A less violent alternative, 
that began to take hold among some circles of abolitionists, was 
the late 18th century concept of colonization where blacks would 
return to form colonies in Africa. Thousands of free black Americans 
settled in Africa in the following decades. These abolitionist actions 
intensified the controversy of race and racial integration throughout 
the United States. 
Print media became more wide spread during this period as well. 
Theodore Weld, who was the editor the abolitionist paper ‘The 
Emancipator’ (1836 to 1840), helped pen the book ‘American Slavery 
As It Is: Testimony of a Thousand Witnesses’, which described the 
horrors of slavery through first hand accounts. The influence of this 
work was second only to that of ‘Uncle Tom’s Cabin’ by Harriet 
Beecher Stowe. Uncle Tom’s Cabin, published in 1852, was an anti-
slavery novel that quickly became popular and was outsold in the 
United States by only the Bible. Slavery supporters were enraged by 
the book’s content. 
Benjamin Franklin

Additionally, the writing of 
escaped slaves, such as Frederick 
Douglass’ - ‘Narrative of the Life of 
Frederick Douglass, an American 
Slave’ helped to solidify positions 
in the slavery debate. Tensions 
climbed between anti and pro-
slavery proponents, as these books, 
newspapers and other abolitionist 
publications spread anti-slavery 
ideas and drew more individuals to 
the abolitionist cause. This tension 
culminated in the secession of 
Southern pro-slavery states from the 
United States and finally erupted into a open confrontation that cost 
hundreds of thousands of American lives - The American Civil War.
The Underground Railroad
While abolitionist groups debated the best way to achieve their anti-
slavery goals, there was an immediate need for assisting fugitive slaves 
escape bondage. Most active in the decade prior to the American 
Civil War, the resistance movement known as the Underground 
Railroad assisted more than an estimated 100,000 slaves escape to 
freedom over the course of its operation. The Underground Railroad 
was a network of transportation routes, safe houses, and meeting 
points which escaped slaves could use to escape to freedom in the 
northern United States and Canada. 
The Ohio River was one such route commonly used by fugitives. 
Those who took this route to freedom knew they had reached the 
north once their river journey brought them to the Rankin House, 
better known as Liberty Hill, in Ripley, Ohio. Those operating the 
Underground Railroad protected themselves by only being familiar 
with their portion of it. Operatives, known as Conductors, would 
provide guidance to small groups of escaped slaves along the portion 
of their route. Travellers typically moved at night and stayed in safe 
houses known as Depots or Stations during the day. These small 
bands would continue on until they reached their final destination 
and freedom. The success of the Underground Railroad also relied 
upon the political support and financial funding of individuals, 
groups and politicians.
Escaping by the Underground 
Railroad was far from safe for 
fugitive or conductor. The 
‘Fugitive Slave Act of 1850’ 
stated that all escaped slaves 
must be returned to their master 
upon capture, requiring officers 
of the law in free states to assist 
in the capture of escaped slaves. 
This act was much more difficult 
for northerners to ignore than 
the ‘Fugitive Slave Act of 
1793’, which simply granted 
slave holders the authority to 
recapture their escaped slaves. 
Underground Railroad workers, 
such as Harriet Tubman, 
who had escaped slavery to 
Philadelphia in 1849, were at great risk of being captured and 
themselves pressed to slavery or worse. Anthony Burns escaped 
slavery in 1853 and was arrested in 1854 in the Northern free city 
of Boston. His trial and return to the South generated protests in 
Boston and the death of a Deputy U.S. Marshal. 
Credits
Brian wishes to thank: 
My wife - for the support
Scott Nicholson - for the spark
Chris Harris - for the line
Andy Austin - for the patience
Box Cover Art: Stephen Paschal (StephenPaschal.com) 
Game Art and Graphics: Jarek Nocoń 
Rulebook: Peter Gifford (UniversalHead.com) 
Project Manager: Uwe Eickert 
Rule Editing: Matthew Dedrick, William Eastwood, 
James Palmer
Playtesters: Rik Van Horn, Al Autovino, Ben Braggins, 
Jeremy Brown, Gunter Eickert, Dan Mulcare, Jim Cote, 
Thom Goodsell, Colleen Goodsell, Dave Kimmel, and the 
many fine folks at Lobster Trap and Millennium Games 
Store.
AYG 5401 
Freedom - The Underground Railroad 
Copyright © 2013 Academy Games, Inc.
Helena, Ohio USA 419-307-2115 
www.Academy-Games.com
William Still, a conductor of the 
Underground Railroad, helped hundreds 
of slaves escape to freedom, and 
provided much of the detail we know 
today through a journal he kept that 
contained details and interviews with 
those he helped reach freedom.
On April 12, 1861 the American Civil 
War began with the Battle of Fort 
Sumter. At the onset of the war, there 
were an estimated 4 million slaves in 
the United States, about 10% of the 
population. The South’s commanding 
General Robert E. Lee surrendered on 
April 9, 1865. In December of that same year, the 13th Amendment 
was ratified, officially abolishing slavery in the United States. Though 
the war itself was a great tragedy, it brought an end to the American 
institution of slavery. The work of the abolitionists helped cease 
an era of oppression and suffering, and gave the United States an 
opportunity to rebuild its social structures and pursue equality for all 
as stated in its Declaration of Independence.
Historical Overview written by Matt Shoemaker 
of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania