R U L E S
B O O K L E T
FOR 3 OR 4 PLAYERS BY RICHARD SIVÉL
ANNIVERSARY EDITION
VERSION 2.1
It is the summer of 1756. Frederick the Great faces the grim
fact that half of Europe has formed an alliance. He is in deep
sorrow: It seems to him that their aim is the annihilation of
Prussia.
Therefore he makes a preemptive strike against Saxony, which
surrenders weeks later. But this is only the ﬁrst chapter in
what would become known as the Seven Years War! Prussia
is completely encircled by her enemies, the biggest continental
powers in Europe. England and Hanover are her only allies.
Prussia’s situation has come down to a single question: To be
or not to be?
Soon the Prussian House is burning. France has conquered
Northern Germany. Austria has invaded Silesia. Russian
hordes are crossing the River Oder, and Berlin is a mere ﬁve
days march away! — Frederick is relentless. He desperately
rushes from crisis to crisis within his strategic triangle, man-
aging to check one enemy only as another takes advantage of
his absence to advance. After six long years of struggle, Prus-
sia seems doomed to fall . . .
Frederick is saved by a miracle. The Russian Tsarina Elisabeth
dies, and her successor has an almost inﬁnite adoration for
Frederick, and immediately makes peace. Sweden soon comes
to terms, followed one year later by a bankrupt France.
Prussia is saved.

Defeat
b
efore
the
T
sarina
dies!
Or,
b
e
F
rederi 
k
the
Great
and
struggle
for
surviv
al
with
a
mixture
of
 ourageous
willp
o
w
er,
sudden
inspiration
and
stoi 
patien e.
INTRODUCTION
FRIEDRICH is a strategy game for 3 or 4 players based on
the Seven Years War (1756–1763). The players take the roles
of Frederick, Elisabeth, Maria Theresa, and Madame Pompadour.
In a 4 player game the players control the nations shown on
the chart below. In a 3 player game use the same chart except
one player will play both Elisabeth and Pompadour.
Player
Colour
Nations
Frederick
blue/light-blue
Elisabeth
green/light-green
Maria Theresa
white/yellow
Pompadour
red
One against all. Frederick is playing against the attackers
Elisabeth, Maria Theresa and Pompadour. The attackers are al-
lied and cannot ﬁght each other. But only one player will be
the winner in the end.
An attacker wins if one of his nations has conquered all
objective cities ﬂagged with her colour (grey in Austria’s
case). Under some circumstances, 2nd order objective cities
can be omitted, see rule 11.
The player Frederick wins if no attacking nation has won
before the end of the game. The game ends as soon as 3 at-
tacking nations have been forced out of the game by histor-
ical events (see rule 11). NOTE: The Prussian objective cities
are used in the expert game only.
The playing pieces
The game FRIEDRICH includes:
24 generals
in 7 colours
11 supply trains
in 7 colours
?
123 control
markers
6 game turn
record markers
• 1 game board
• 24 stickers for generals
• 240 cards, in detail:
◦4 Tactical Cards decks, 50 cards each
◦2×18 Cards of Fate (English & German)
◦4 playing aids
• this rules booklet (incl. 4 army sheets in the middle of
this booklet)
Every nation has generals and supply trains, hereafter re-
ferred to as pieces.
Before playing the game for the ﬁrst time, the stickers
must be applied to the generals for each nation (dark blue
on dark blue, red on red, etc.). Every general has a name
and a rank (1=highest, 2=second highest, etc.).
NOTE: There are more markers provided than actually needed so that you
can replace losses easily.
The map
The map shows central Europe in the year 1756. It shows
cities connected by roads. The thick roads are main roads.
Cities connected by a road are adjacent.
Some cities are objective cities (1st and 2nd order), set-up
cities or depot cities.
1st Order
Objective
2nd Order
Objective
Set-up City
of general No. 3
Depot city
• Objective cities are different for each nation and are
shown in the colour for that nation. To win the game
an attacking nation has to control all of her objectives.
If eased victory conditions are in effect, control of 1st
order objectives is sufﬁcient, see rule 11.
• Set-up cities are used for initial placement of pieces.
Following this they are treated like regular cities.
• Depot cities are set-up cities as well. In addition, they
are where eliminated pieces can re-enter the game.
A rectangular grid divides the map into 33 sectors. Each
sector is marked with a suit (hearts, diamonds, clubs, or
spades). These suits affect the play of Tactical Cards in re-
solving combat.
Home country.
All dark-blue areas (including all ex-
claves) are the home country of Prussia; all light blue areas
are the home country of Hanover, etc.
NOTE: Russia and France have no home country. The home
country of the Imperial Army is all yellow territories, includ-
ing Sachsen (Saxony).
How to start
Using the Tactical Cards
13, the roles of
Friedrich, Elisabeth, Maria Theresa and Pompadour are rafﬂed
to the players.
In the middle of this booklet are the army sheets. Divide
one army sheet into four and give each player his respective
quarter. Each player will also need a pen
The players set up all their pieces on the indicated set-
up and depot cities. (The army sheets provide their coordi-
nates.) Generals go on cities marked with their rank number
in their colour. Supply trains go on cities marked with a “T”
in their colour.
The army sheets indicate the number of troops each na-
tion has at the start of the game. Each player secretly assigns
all of these troops to his generals by writing numbers in the
boxes next to the names of those generals. Each general must
receive a minimum of 1 troop, but cannot receive more than
8 troops. Example: France starts the game with 20 troops and
might assign them as follows: Richelieu 7 troops, Soubise 5 and
Chevert 8.
Shufﬂe one of the four Tactical Card decks for immediate
use by all four players. Set aside the other 3 decks for later.
Place ﬁve game turn record markers in the track next to
the “1756”; one in each box numbered 1 to 5.
Shufﬂe the English Cards of Fate deck very carefully, and
place it on the hour glass next to the game turn record track.
The Clock of Fate is set now. The sands are ﬂowing, the
game is ready to start . . .

SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The game is played in turns. A turn consists of 7 action
stages, one for each nation. The nations’ action stages are
carried out one after the other in the following strict order:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
During her action stage a nation is called active. Every
nation’s action stage is divided into 5 phases, which are car-
ried out in the following strict order:
1. Tactical Cards. The active nation draws Tactical cards.
2. Movement. The active nation may move all its pieces.
It may also conquer objectives, recruit new troops and
re-enter generals and supply trains.
3. Combat. All active generals must attack adjacent en-
emy generals.
4. Retroactive conquests are checked for.
5. Supply is checked for all active generals.
End of turn. For the ﬁrst ﬁve turns, the end of a turn is in-
dicated by removing one marker from the game turn record
track. Starting with the sixth end of turn, after all markers
have been removed, the top Card of Fate is turned instead.
The card is read and its instructions are immediately exe-
cuted. If the card has 4 different instructions, read only the
spades version. (The other versions are for the expert game,
see rule 13.) After reading it, put the card at the bottom of the
Card of Fate deck. The effect is to obscure how close players
are to having run through the complete Clock of Fate deck.
TACTICAL CARDS (TC)
At the beginning of the game no nation holds any Tacti-
cal Cards (TC). Each turn, the ﬁrst phase of a nation’s action
stage is to draw a number of TCs from the draw deck:
4+3
1+1
4+1
4−1
a) Basically Prussia receives 7 TCs per turn, Hanover 2 and Austria 5.
Due to certain Cards of Fate, these values can be reduced to 4, 1, and 4,
respectively.
b) Basically France receives 4 TCs, but has to choose one of these imme-
diately. The chosen TC is discarded facedown (this simulates the French
engagement overseas against England). There is a Card of Fate that re-
duces the French draw to 3, but France can keep all of them.
A nation accumulates its TCs until they are played. There
is no maximum hand size. Nations may never mix nor ex-
change their TCs. TCs may not be shown to other players
unless they are played. Every TC shows a suit (
) and
a value from 2 to 13. There is a special wild card type called
Reserve. When a player plays a Reserve, he declares it as be-
ing any suit and any value from 1 to 10. (Declaring the value
is of great use in minimizing battle losses, see rule 7.)
Whenever TCs are played, they are set aside and sorted
according to their deck of origin. When the ﬁrst set of TCs
has been used up, use the second set as draw deck, and so
on. If the fourth set is used up, always use the two sets which
have accumulated most, whenever you need new TCs for
the draw deck. Shufﬂe them carefully together.
MOVEMENT
In the movement phase, all active pieces can be moved.
Movement is from city to city along roads. A player may
move as few or as many pieces as he wishes, but one piece
must ﬁnish its move before another can start and cannot be
moved again that phase.
Under no circumstances may a
piece jump over any other piece.
A general may move up to 3 cities, even back and forth.
If the entire move is along a main road, the general may
move an additional city, up to a total of 4.
Main road +1 !
A supply train moves like a general, but one less city, i.e.
2 cities (and 3 on main roads).
Only one piece may be placed on each city. EXCEPTION:
Up to 3 generals of one nation may be stacked on one city.
This stack is moved as one “piece” until a player decides to
detach a general. The general with the lowest number is the
supreme commander; he is placed on top of the stack. Un-
derneath is the second highest ranked, and so on.
If you move a general as part of a stack, you may not
move him individually in the same movement phase. When
generals are uniting as a stack, movement is ﬁnished for
ALL, immediately.
CONQUEST OF OBJECTIVES
Objective cities can be conquered by generals. Generals
may conquer objectives only of their own colour (grey in
Austria’s case).
Conquest happens if:
• a general moves over an objective; or he starts his
movement phase on it and moves away; and
• the objective is not protected at that moment.
It is
protected if a general of the defending nation is po-
sitioned 1, 2 or 3 cities away.
All nations are defending their home country, including
all exclaves.
Furthermore, Prussia is defending occupied
Sachsen (Saxony). NOTE: Hanover does not defend any ob-
jectives in Prussia! Prussia does not defend any objectives in
Hanover!

A general may conquer more than one objective with a
single move. A general may protect any number of objec-
tives within 3 cities distance, regardless of the position of
other pieces. If conquered, mark the objective with a corre-
sponding coat of arms control marker. This marker indicates
that the city is conquered, it does not affect any movement.
Conquered!
Protected!
Kamenz
Radeberg
Example: An Austrian general moves through Radeberg and Kamenz. The
un-protected Radeberg is conquered. Kamenz, however, is protected by the
Prussian general; it is not conquered.
Retroactive Conquest. If a general moves over a pro-
tected objective (or away from it) the city is not conquered,
but is marked temporarily with a control marker showing
a question mark. In the retroactive conquest phase, check
every objective marked with a question mark. If this objec-
tive is not protected anymore (due to combat and retreat in
the combat phase, see rule 8), the objective is retroactively
conquered and the control marker is ﬂipped over to its coat
of arms side. However, if the objective is still protected the
marker with the question mark is removed from the map.
NOTE: The general who did the “moving over” does not
have to be the one who forces the protector to retreat. It is
only important that retreats and moving over occur in the
same action stage.
Retroactively conquered!
Kamenz
Radeberg
Retreat!
Example (continued): Kamenz was marked with a question mark in the
Austrian movement phase. During the combat phase of the same action
stage, the protecting general has to retreat which makes Kamenz now un-
protected. Therefore it is retroactively conquered. — NOTE: If Kamenz
is still protected after the combat phase, then the question mark placed on
Kamenz must be removed.
Reconquest. Conquered objectives may be reconquered.
Reconquest works like conquest and retroactive conquest.
However, only the original protecting nation may reconquer,
with the roles for “moving over” and “protecting” now be-
ing reversed. For instance, only Hanover can reconquer ob-
jectives in Hanover and only the French generals are able to
protect them. After reconquest the coat of arms marker is
taken from the map.
No unfair conduct. The attacking nations are allied. They
may not use their own pieces with the main purpose of ob-
structing the conquest of objective(s) by other allied players.
Supply trains may not conquer or reconquer objectives.
They may not protect objectives.
EXCEPTION: The supply
train of the Imperial Army protects objectives like a general
(protection radius of 3 cities).
THE TROOPS
Every nation starts the game with a given number of
troops, as per the army sheets. At the start of the game,
players secretly allocate troops to generals as per the set-up
rules. Necessary changes are marked there as well. A player
has to state the current troops-total of a nation if asked for it.
However, the troop strength assigned to a particular general
is made public only during combat. Troops may not exist on
the map without a general; a general may not exist on the
map without troops.
Every general has to command at least 1 troop.
No general may ever command more than 8 troops.
The 2 (or 3) generals of a stack must treat the sum of their
troops as a common pool. They have to command at least
2 (or 3) troops, and may not command more than 16 (or 24)
troops.
If generals are stacked, a player can transfer troops be-
tween them whenever and as he desires (even during an op-
ponent’s action stage or after a Card of Fate has been drawn).
Troops can never be transferred between generals who are
not stacked together.
A general who loses his last troop, is removed from the
board, unless the general is in a stack and it is possible to
transfer at least one troop to him. In such a case, the transfer
is mandatory: a general never is removed from the board as
long as he has one troop or as long as one troop can be trans-
ferred to him. In a stack, removal is executed from bottom
to top (that is, the lowest-ranked general is removed ﬁrst).
IMPORTANT: No nation may ever command more troops
than she started with (see rule 10).
Example: The generals Friedrich and Keith are stacked, with 4 and 5 troops
respectively, for a total of 9 troops. In combat they lose 8 troops, leaving
1 troop between them. The higher-ranked Friedrich gets the troop and the
lower-ranked Keith is taken from the map.
Example (continued): Friedrich and Keith, like above. In this example there
was no combat. For some reason, the Prussian player decides to transfer
troops in this stack. Friedrich receives 7 troops and Keith 2. He writes
down the new allocation of troops on his army sheet.
Example (variant): Again, Friedrich and Keith with 4 and 5 troops. A
Card of Fate calls for the permanent removal of any one Prussian general.
The Prussian player chooses Keith and takes him out of the game without
any troops. Before doing so, he must transfer Keith’s troops to Friedrich.
Since Friedrich can hold only 8 troops, the 9th troop is lost to “desertion”.
COMBAT
Every general who is adjacent to an enemy general at the
beginning of his nation’s combat phase must attack. If more
than one attack must be made, the active player chooses the
order of resolution.
Richelieu &
Soubise
Heinrich
Every attack is resolved as a card game using Tactical
Cards (TCs). A player may play only those TCs which are of
the same suit as the sector in which his general is positioned.
First, the opposing players state how many troops their
participating generals command.
The difference between
these two numbers is called the initial score. This score is

negative for the player inferior in troops, and positive for
the other one.
Next, the inferior player has the right to play a single TC
of his suit. He adds the TC value to the initial score. This re-
sults in the current score which he states aloud. Again, this
score is valid for both players (negative for one, positive for
the other). As long as a player has a negative current score,
he has the right to play another TC.
If a score becomes zero or positive, the right to play TCs
switches to the other player. Now he is considered inferior,
and he may play a TC using the same procedure. The right
to play TCs keeps switching until the player with the right to
play is unable or unwilling to do so. At that point his general
is defeated.
The defeated general loses as many troops as the ﬁnal
negative score (but not more than he commanded) and is
retreated the same number of cities.
The winner loses no troops and remains in place.
A tie. If a player receives the right to play a TC on a score
of zero, he must play a card if he has any of the correct suit
(he is not obligated to play a Reserve). If he has none (and
if he is not willing to play an existing Reserve), combat ends
as a tie. In a tie, neither side loses troops nor has to retreat.
SPECIAL CASES:
• If the attack starts with a score of zero, the attacking
player plays TCs ﬁrst (following the above rule).
• If opposing generals are in different sectors, each will
play the suit for his own sector.
• A stack of generals always ﬁghts as one piece.
• If a general/stack starts the combat phase adjacent to
more than one opponent, he has to ﬁght them one af-
ter the other. If more than one general/stack are adja-
cent to one opponent, they have to attack one after the
other.
• A general who had to retreat may not attack or be at-
tacked again in that combat phase.
Combat example
Prinz Heinrich (Prussia P, 2 troops) has moved adjacent to the stack Richelieu and
Soubise (France F, 4 troops). He has to attack in the upcoming combat phase.
Initial score = difference of troops = 2 −4 = −2
Prussia is inferior by 2 and has the right to play TC. (Heinrich could also opt to
retreat immediately, thus losing all his troops, but saving the Prussian Tactical
Cards for another use.)
Heinrich is in a diamonds sector.
P has:
7 Reserve
P is −2 and plays:
New score: −2 + 10 = +8
Richelieu is in a spades sector.
F has:
Now Prussia is superior and France is inferior. The right of playing TC switches.
F is −8 and plays:
−8 + 5 = −3
F is −3 and plays:
−3 + 3 = 0
The score is zero. The right of playing TC switches again. On a score of zero
Prussia may only abort from combat, if she has no diamonds. If she had only the
Reserve, then she could continue the combat or abort (the combat would then
result in a draw). Since Prussia has still diamonds, she must play:
P is ±0 and plays:
0 + 7 = +7
F is −7 and plays:
−7 + 4 = −3
France is now running out of spades and decides to accept defeat with a ﬁnal
score of −3. Result: Richelieu loses 3 troops and has to retreat 3 cities. Only one
troop is left, therefore the lower ranked Soubise is removed from the map.
RETREAT
A defeated general has to retreat before the next combat is
resolved. The length of the retreat is the same as the number
of troops lost. During a retreat a stack may never split up.
The winning player chooses the retreat path, according to
the following conditions:
• The general must retreat the full distance and has to
ﬁnish his retreat as far away as possible from the win-
ning general (only the winning general matters).
• A retreating general may never enter a city a second
time.
• A retreating general may not enter or move through
a city containing any other piece (enemy or friendly);
not even to eliminate a supply train nor to stack with
a friendly general. A general can retreat through an
objective city, but cannot (re-)conquer it.
If a general cannot retreat the full distance, he loses all
his troops and is removed from the map.
Black has lost 3 troops, and has to retreat 3 cities!
Possible retreat cities
No retreat of 3 cities possible!
SUPPLY
Generals need supply, otherwise their troops will desert.
The Supply status of generals is checked exclusively in the
supply phase of the nation’s action stage.
Inside his home country a general is always in supply.
Russia and France have no home country, but their gener-
als are in supply if occupying their depot cities. REMEMBER:
Prussia’s home country is all sea blue territories, the Impe-
rial Army’s home country is all yellow territories including
“Sachsen”, etc. (see rule 1).
Out of supply!
Outside his home country, a general needs to be able to
trace a supply path to a supply train of his own colour in or-
der to be in supply. This path may have a maximum length
of 6 cities. The path can be traced through friendly pieces,
but not through hostile pieces (generals and supply trains).
A supply train may supply an unlimited number of generals
of its own colour.
If a general is out of supply in his supply phase, he is
ﬂipped face-down. If this general is in supply again in his

next supply phase, he is ﬂipped face-up. However, if he is
still out of supply, he will lose all troops and is put off-map.
RULE OF THUMB: If a nation’s general goes out of supply in
his own action stage (including retreat), he has one turn to
re-establish supply. If, however, he goes “out of supply” in
an enemy action stage, he will have two turns to re-establish
supply (this is because generals only get turned face-down for
being out of supply at the end of their own action stage, never
during an enemy action stage).
Whenever a face-up and a face-down general are uniting
as a stack, both are automatically and immediately consid-
ered face-down (i.e. both need supply in the supply phase
of the current action stage, otherwise all their troops will be
lost).
Face-down generals have no special restrictions on them:
they can move, ﬁght, conquer, receive new troops, etc.
A supply train cannot ﬁght. A general can eliminate a
hostile supply train simply by entering its city. The sup-
ply train is taken from the map; but the general has to stop
moving immediately. Supply trains which are hostile to each
other cannot do each other any harm.
Stop!
RECRUITMENT
During the movement phase, a nation may bring lost
troops and pieces formerly removed from the map back into
play. Players do this by paying for them with TCs (of any
suit). For payment, TCs are used like money and must be
shown to the other players, but there is no “change” for over-
payment.
Each TROOP costs 6 points of TC.
Each SUPPLY TRAIN costs 6 points of TC.
Each GENERAL is for free, but has to receive at least one
new troop (for a price of 6 points of TC).
New troops can be used to reinforce a general already on
map; or they can be given to a new general; or any combi-
nation thereof. A player just says how many troops he is
recruiting, but not which general(s) will receive them. The
player secretly writes down the new allocation on his army
sheet. He has to tell the other players the new troops-total of
his nation.
No nation may ever have more troops than the number
she started with (e.g. France may never have more than 20
troops).
Pieces re-enter on any one of their nation’s depot cities,
where they may legally stack. (Note: Re-entering where a
piece of another nation is present is never permitted.) Pieces
may not move in the movement phase they re-enter.
Example: Russia recruits 3 new troops and 1 supply train. This costs 24
points of TC. She pays with
13 and
12, which are 25 points, one too
much. The excess point is lost. Russia puts 2 off-map generals onto Sierpc
and gives them 2 new troops. The other troop can be allocated to them or to
any other Russian general on the map, as Russia desires. The supply train
cannot be put onto Sierpc, because it is now occupied by generals; it goes
onto the empty Warszawa instead.
Should all of a nation’s depot cities be occupied by pieces
from another player, the following rules apply:
a) That nation may choose one city as a substitute re-entry
site. The chosen city may change from turn to turn. It can be
any city for:
• Prussia in the Berlin spades sector;
• Hanover in the Stade diamonds sector, but only north of
Munster;
• Russia in the Warszawa spades sector;
• Sweden in Sweden (Sverige), incl. exclaves;
• Austria in the Brünn diamonds sector (Austrian territory
only);
• Imperial Army in the spades sector south of Hildburghausen;
• France in the hearts sector south of Koblenz.
b) For that nation, the costs for every returned supply train
and for every recruited troop increases from 6 to 8 points of
TC (even if the troop is not given to a re-entering general).
THE CLOCK OF FATE
The Clock of Fate consists of 18 cards. Beginning with the
6th game turn, the last action of every turn is to read and
execute the top card. After that, the card is put underneath
the complete deck, so that no one ever knows when the last
card will be picked.
6 Cards are historical Strokes of Fate:
Title
History
Result
ELISABETH
Death of the Tsarina
Russia quits the game!
1 Pruss. general is permanently retired.
INDIA
France loses India.
First: Austria receives only 4 TC &
France only 3 TC from now on.
AMERICA
France loses
Canada
Then: France quits the game!
Cumberland is permanently retired.
Hanover gets only 1 TC from now on
SWEDEN
Sweden makes
peace
Sweden quits the game!
1 Pruss. general is permanently retired.
LORD BUTE
England
First, Prussia receives only 5 TC;
POEMS
reduces subsidies
then only 4 TC from now on.
The other 12 cards have four versions with only minor ef-
fects. In the standard game, always read the spades version.
Whenever a general receives a special bonus or a restriction,
put a game turn record marker on him as a reminder.
The allocation of nations may change:
• If Russia and Sweden have dropped out, player Elisa-
beth takes over the Imperial Army.
• If France has dropped out, player Pompadour takes
over the Imperial Army.
NOTE: 1.) By the above method all players will participate till the end. 2.)
The Imperial Army still moves after Austria.
Eased victory conditions. For victory, control of 1st order
objectives will be sufﬁcient for:
• Sweden, if Russia has dropped out.
• Austria and/or Imperial Army, if the Imperial Army
has switched players.
In a 3 player game, the Imperial Army switches play-
ers in the same way. Eased victory conditions are also not
changed.

GAME END
The game will end only at the end of a turn. EXCEPTION:
Offensive Option (rule 13).
Victory of an attacking nation. If an attacking nation con-
trols all her objectives before the Card of Fate is picked, this
nation has won. Do not pick the card. If a nation controls
all necessary objectives after the pick (due to eased victory
conditions) the nation has won, too. In both cases the game
ends with the victory of the player currently playing this na-
tion. If two or more nations fulﬁll their victory conditions
simultaneously both will win. All other players – allies and
opponents – have lost.
Prussian victory. If Russia, Sweden and France have quit
the game due to the Cards of Fate, then the game ends with
the victory of Prussia/Hanover (player Frederick).
THE EXPERT GAME
If the picked Card of Fate shows 4 versions, read out the
one with the suit corresponding to the sector where the most
recently victorious general is currently positioned.
If you want fate to be less extreme, you can set up the
Clock of Fate as follows: :
1. Before shufﬂing the Cards of Fate, set aside the cards
Elisabeth, Poems and America.
2. Shufﬂe the remaing 15 Cards of Fate thoroughly. Then
set aside the top 4 cards.
3. Merge the remaining 11 cards and the cards Elisabeth,
Poems and America. Shufﬂe this deck thoroughly. Fi-
nally, put the 4 cards from step 2 on top of these. Now
the Clock of Fate is set; the game is ready to start.
Prussia may win the game using the Offensive Option
(OO) as follows:
• In turn 3, before moving any pieces, Prussia has to de-
cide whether to use the OO or not. Prussia shows that
she is going for the OO by setting aside, faceup, one
TC or her choice, of any suit or value.
• Austria picks up this TC as soon as Prussia has lost a
combat against Austria with at least −3; or if a Prus-
sian general was removed from the map due to lack of
supply south of the coordinate line “5”.
• To win with the OO Prussia has to control the 14 ob-
jectives in Bohemia (“Böhmen”). Without the OO con-
quests of objectives are not possible after turn 3.
• If Prussia has conquered all her objectives, the game
ends immediately with a Prussian victory (as an ex-
ception to rule 12, 1st paragraph).
• When the ﬁrst subsidy reduction has occurred by a
Card of Fate and Austria has picked up the open TC,
the OO has failed. Prussia is not allowed to conquer
objectives in Bohemia anymore.
Victory is possible
only by defense.
• If Prussia decides to go for the OO, the number of
objectives Austria needs to conquer is reduced by 4.
Which 4 objectives Austria does not need to conquer
can be decided by Austria at any moment. However,
Austria must control at least one objective in Saxony
("Sachsen”) in order to win the game.
• All other nations win by meeting their usual condi-
tions.
SCENARIOS FOR 2 PLAYERS
This scenarios will not recreate the overall strategic situation of
FRIEDRICH, but will focus on only one theatre of the war. There-
fore, they are only introduction scenarios, especially useful for be-
ginners who want to learn the system; or for FRIEDRICH enthusi-
asts who want to play but could not ﬁnd a third player.
General Scenario Rules. All standard rules are used, un-
less explicitly mentioned.
14.1
Scenario 1 — The War in the West
One player takes the Hanoverians and the Prussians. The
other player takes the French.
The scenario is played with the following pieces:
1. All Hanoverian pieces.
2. All French pieces.
3. The Prussian general Seydlitz (No. 6) and one Prussian
supply train.
4. Prussia starts the game with 3 troops; she may never
hold more. (France and Hanover start the game with
20 and 12 troops, as in the standard game.)
5. All pieces are set up on their standard start positions.
The Prussian supply train starts in Jüterbog (F5).
Except for Prussia, the income of Tactical Cards is the
same as in the standard game. In detail:
Pr: 2 −1 TC
Ha: 1 + 1 TC
Fr: 4 −1 TC
Furthermore, an imaginary player receives 5 TC per turn.
These cards are discarded immediately (without looking at
them).
1. Prussia receives 2 TC per round, but has to discard one of these two im-
mediately. As soon as the ﬁrst subsidy reduction occurs (due to the Card of
Fate “Lord Bute” or “Poems”) Prussia receives only 1 TC per round. The
second subsidy reduction has no effect.
2. France is affected by the Cards of Fate like in the standard game.
France wins if she controls all of her red objectives.
Hanover/Prussia wins if the game ends before France has
won. The game ends when France is kicked out of the game
by the Cards of Fate “India” and “America”.
14.2
Scenario 2 — The Austrian Theatre
One player takes the Prussians. The other player takes the
Austrians and the Imperial Army.
The scenario is played with the following pieces:
1. All Austrian pieces.
2. All Imperial Army pieces.
3. The Prussian generals Friedrich, Winterfeldt, Heinrich,
Schwerin, Keith (No. 1 to 5), and both Prussian supply
trains.
4. Prussia starts the game with 24 troops; she may never
hold more. (Austria and the Imperial Army start the
game with 30 and 6 troops, as in the standard game.)
5. All pieces are set up on their standard start positions.
Except for Prussia, the income of Tactical Cards is as in
the standard game. In detail:
Pr: 3 + 2 TC
A: 4 + 1 TC
Imp. Army: 1 TC
Furthermore, an imaginary player receives 5 TC per turn.
These cards are discarded immediately (without looking at
them).

1. Prussia receives 5 TC per round. Every subsidy reduction (due to the
Card of Fate “Lord Bute” or “Poems”) reduces her income by (only) 1 TC
per round.
2. Austria’s income is affected just like in the standard game.
Austria wins if she controls all of her objectives. Similarly,
the Imperial Army wins if she controls all of her objectives.
Prussia wins by controlling all of her blue objectives in Bo-
hemia, or if the game ends before Austria or the Imperial
Army have won.
The game ends as soon as the virtual powers France, Rus-
sia, and Sweden have left the game due to the four Cards of
Fate “India”, “America”, “Elisabeth”, and “Sweden” (as in
the standard game).
There are no eased victory conditions for Austria or the
Imperial Army.
The rules for the Offensive Option are not in play: thus,
Prussia may conquer an objective in Bohemia at any time.
TRANSLATION OF THE TIME TRACK
-1- 1756, August 29. Frederick is convinced that war cannot be
avoided. So he strikes ﬁrst and invades Saxony with his armies
under his personal command.
-2- Escaping the Prussians, Minister Brühl has to leave behind
802 bathrobes, 28 coaches, 67 vinaigrettes and 1500 wigs.
-3- Saxony has surrendered, and now Frederick demands an al-
liance! – ”That never happened in world’s history before!” –
Frederick: “I attach importance to being inventive.”
-4- William Pitt convinces the British House of Commons that
the battle for America will be won in Europe. After a standing
ovation, Prussia is voted generous subsidies.
-5- In the spring of 1757, Frederick starts an offensive into Bo-
hemia before the attackers are able to complete the encirclement
of Prussia. Siege is laid to Prague . . .
TACTICAL HINTS
If you are inferior in TCs, then go and hunt the opponent’s
supply trains! The map offers a lot of space. Use it!
Avoid total defeats. It is better to withdraw tactically than to
lose all troops.
Reserves are gold. They can be used in every TC-sector; and –
even more importantly – they always allow a cheap and ﬂexible
retreat!
If you don’t want to allow your enemy a cheap retreat, then
play on a score of zero. Then he has to play TCs until only RE-
SERVES are left to him.
If you are sure you will win the battle, then encircle the en-
emy. He won’t be able to retreat, and will lose all troops instead.
During a retreat even your own pieces are obstacles!
Attacks across a sector border almost always dramatically al-
ter a game situation.
Areas far apart from each other are correlated by TC sectors.
A Prussian victory in East Prussian spades can mean a total de-
feat in Silesian spades.
Prussia has to use its TCs with great discipline.
DESIGNER: Richard Sivél
GRAPHICS COVER: Kerstin Hille
GRAPHICS PORTRAITS: Andreas Töpfer
OTHER GRAPHICS: Richard Shako
HISTORICAL RESEARCH: Richard Sivél
LAYOUT, TEXTS, TRANSLATION: Richard Shako
HINTS & CONSTANT MOTIVATION: Josef Gundel, Birte Wolmeyer, Car-
men Berger, Thomas Vömel, Sven Koch, Sveto Petrovic, u.a.
ENGLISH PROOFREADING:
Bowen Simmons, Rachel Simmons, Guy
Atkinson, Dennis Kelsey, Mark Luta, Wendell Albright, Jeff Hartke, Alan
& Evrim March, Jessica Mock, Trevor Ott. Thank you!
GERMAN PROOFREADING: Birte Wolmeyer, Bernd Preiß, Anton Telle,
Julia Kaschenz, Alexandra Richter-Rethwisch
ART ADVISORS: Andreas Töpfer, Birte Wolmeyer
PLAYTESTING: Josef Gundel, Bernd Witzany, Birte Wolmeyer, Thomas
Vömel, Sven Koch, Andreas Knoth, Peter Tonini, Holger Jank, Stefan
Stubenvoll, Hartmut Wziontek, Aureli Soria Frisch, Sandra Kröger, Oli
Meier, Frank Reisert, Franz Josef Heiss, Christian Krokowski, Christiane
Krellner, Christa Cocciole, Ralf Dieter Schroers, Thomas Theil, Susanne
Zanetti, Florian Hülsey, Bernhard Schimpf, Jasmin Röcker, Florian Saut-
ter, Florence Konkel, Gerhard Kuhlmann, Daniela Grünwitzky, Herbert
Braun, Björn Kuhligk, Stephan Egey, and many others. Thanks a lot!
LITERATURE:
Christopher Duffy, Friedrich der Große, Ein Soldaten-
leben, Benziger 1986.
Ludwig Reiners, Friedrich, Das Leben des
Preußenkönigs, dtv, 1980. Wolfgang Venohr, Fridericus Rex, Friedrich
der Große – Porträt einer Doppelnatur, Gustav Lübbe Verlag, 1988.
©2004, 2011 Histogame — Spielverlag Richard Shako, Knaackstr. 70,
10405 Berlin, Germany — All rights by histogame and the author.
If you have any rules questions, ideas or hints, then contact, please:
http://www.histogame.de

Designer’s Notes
When the idea for FRIEDRICH ﬁrst came to
me, Germany was still divided, computers
did not have hard disks, and I knew less than
nothing about Prussia. Then one evening I
was watching the TV series “Saxony’s Glam-
our and Prussia’s Glory” (an East German
production shown on Bavarian television):
all of a sudden I had a vision for a game.
Since that ﬁrst moment, FRIEDRICH has not
changed in its basic concepts, and only details
have changed since the ﬁrst prototype.
So
why was the development process so long?
Because I wanted all the players (though not
the nations they control) to have an equal
chance at victory, without artiﬁcial and ahis-
torical leveling. Achieving this could only be
done through long testing and the collection
of detailed statistics.
The basic concept of FRIEDRICH is that life
writes the best stores. It was clear from the
start that Everybody-against-Frederick and
the sudden death of the Tsarina should be the
inner engine of the game. The Cards of Fate
were born in the ﬁrst minute of the design,
and with them the opportunity to spotlight
en passant the fascinating ﬁgure of Freder-
ick the Great and the era as a whole. From
this came the next idea:
the game should
draw an historically accurate picture, but
always remain a game. It should have few
rules and avoid mechanical nightmares, but
always offer great depth of play and give
players lots of decisions to make. Finally, it
should base everything on a novel concept:
the uniﬁcation of board-game and card-game.
The map only seems to be accurate.
The
borders are greatly simpliﬁed. In early ver-
sions dozens of German minor states had
been indicated with individual colors, but
now they are all in yellow for the sake of
clarity (although the existence of states like
Waldeck and Anhalt add ﬂavor). Some cities
were moved to prevent overcrowding, and
– I am ashamed to admit – some territo-
ries were moved as complete blocks by over
a hundred miles, just because of production
constraints. The road network reﬂects terrain.
Gaps can be found at mountain ranges (Harz,
Erzebirge), rivers (the Oder and Bober) and
marshes (the Warthebruch and the swamps
near Hanover).
Important intersections are
located at major cities (Breslau, Prague and
Dresden), and fortresses (Minden, Glatz). The
main roads are the interior lines which were
used by Frederick the Great with masterful
perfection.
All in all it is the complex and
irregular terrain which gives FRIEDRICH its
appeal: after playing the game more than a
hundred times, one should think that I would
know the roads inside out by now, but no! It
happens every game that suddenly Leopold
of Daun or some other bastard shows up in
front of me, just because I couldn’t count to
three!
The Tactical Cards were part of the game
from the beginning. Some points especially
worth noting:
1) Only the precious “Reserve” can be used
as a “1”.
2) The inﬂuence of the arrangement of sec-
tors on the game balance is profound; the
strange gap in the three central rows is only
there to balance the game.
3) It took a long time for me to ﬁnally decide
whether to use the traditional French suits for
the cards (spades, clubs, diamonds, hearts)
or whether I should introduce new ones just
for the game (e.g. tricorn, sabre, boots, horse-
shoes). I opted for the traditional suits. The
reasons were: a) The French suits were in use
in the era represented in the game; b) French
was the lingua franca of the era and partic-
ularly of Frederick; c) Sentences like “I will
enter horseshoes now” or “You tricorn; me
boots” just sounded ridiculous; and d) Why
should I reinvent the wheel and introduce
unnecessary terminology and add confusion?
— As a side note, traditionally spades were a
symbol of the sword, clubs of power, hearts
the church, and diamonds money.
The generals and armies are taken from
history. The strengths of the armies are taken
from their historical strengths, averaged over
time.
The number of generals and supply
trains is a compromise between history and
game balance.
A lot of thought went into
the decision as to whether France should
have 3 or 4 generals. She received 3, because
France’s chance of victory would be extraor-
dinarily high with 4 generals, and 3 generals
allowed the elegant and mobile campaigns in
northern Germany that were so characteristic
of Ferdinand of Brunswick.
The generals in the game were the outstand-
ing commanders of the period – or at least the
most inﬂuential ones. Some names are unfor-
tunately missing (e.g. Zieten, Hadik, Rum-
janzew, Finck), and in the case of France and
Sweden different choices could easily have
been made (for France d’Estrées, Clermont,
Contades, Broglie were alternatives, and for
Sweden the supreme command changed an-
nually).
— As an aside, don’t confuse the
general Richelieu in the game with Cardinal
Richelieu, his namesake.
The nations all play differently. FRIEDRICH in
this way is a little bit like role-playing. Play-
ing France is a totally different experience
than playing Russia which is totally different
from Prussia which is totally different from
Austria. France, by the way, is not less of a
challenge for having so few pieces to move:
in chess, the endgame is not easier than the
opening because there are fewer pieces in
play.
There will be days when you feel ﬁt
to play Frederick with all the mental stress
that entails; on other days you will be drawn
to France to play the ﬂeet-footed fencer; and
there will even be days when you will want
to feel the sword of Damocles hanging over
your head and you will long to play Rus-
sia ...
In contrast to history you should never turn
up your nose at the minor countries.
Of
course Sweden and the Imperial Army are
of no military importance (during the ﬁrst
ten turns they should never engage in com-
bat!), but they can become dangerous over
the long haul if they adhere to the tactics of
“look-and-run”. This is especially true with
the eased victory conditions: if they control
all their 1st order objectives at the moment
victory conditions are eased, they win imme-
diately – with no chance for Prussia to make a
counter-move. Additionally, there is the per-
ﬁdy of the Imperial Army, which can switch
players! Maria Theresa can do all the work,
only to have Pompadour get the glory and
the crown: is there a better way to represent
German sectionalism?
Although FRIEDRICH is not a pure simula-
tion, the game recreates the nature of the
Seven Years War surprisingly well.
During
the ﬁrst four turns Prussia is more than a
match for each of her opponents: the temp-
tation is quite strong to ﬁght them all at once
in a wild brawl. This, however is the perfect
recipe for a rapid Prussian defeat: instead the
key to Prussian victory is the well-targeted
use of her superiority. Remember what Fred-
erick wrote to d’Argens in early 1759: “Until
now my enemies had never coordinated their ac-
tivities. This year they want to attack in concert.
If they succeed, you can start to prepare my epi-
taph.” In game terms the Prussian dictum is:
“Never ﬁght an enemy nation in more than
one suit!” Adhering to this requires a lot of
discipline (which is of course the signature
Prussian virtue).
On the other hand, if the
attackers manage to unite their generals in a
single sector, Prussia is really doomed! But if
Prussia is doomed, who is the winner? Well,
that is the key question!
The dissention of
the coalition saved Frederick 250 years ago;
it can also (depending on the character of the
players) be Prussia’s salvation in the game.
Furthermore, the necessity to stay in supply
will be a major barrier to the realization of
the unite-in-one-sector strategy. Saltikov and
Kunersdorf are to be remembered here!
At ﬁrst blush, the TC system looks very
abstract and arbitrary.
But, in this simple
mechanism you can ﬁnd: the limited Prus-
sian resources and population (the Prussia
hand will constantly decrease,
while the
Austrian hand will tend to grow); the cur-
tailment of Prussian mobility starting around
game turn 12 (approximately the 4th year
of the war), sieges (although no fortresses
exist);
motionless entrenchments (Bunzel-
witz), threats to supply lines (Henry’s move
to Görlitz in 1759); the breakdown of supply
(Laudon’s coup at Domstädtl); and encir-
clement to force a decisive battle (Liegnitz,
Torgau, Hochkirch).
The Cards of Fate. The players know what
Tactical Cards they have, and plan accord-
ingly. Perhaps they will succeed, perhaps not.
All plans, however, can come to a sudden
end with the death of the Tsarina or by the
bankruptcy of France, something that can nei-
ther be planned for nor foreseen, because it is
beyond the players’ control and knowledge.
This is a violent and radical game mechanic.
It will irritate some, and cause them to think
that the Cards of Fate are nothing but pure
luck ... nevertheless, in the game, they work!
They have been playtested over and over.
Most importantly, they make FRIEDRICH like
life itself; today I feel on top of the world, but
tomorrow I may be killed by a brick falling on
my head ...
Today, Germany is united and computers
have enormous hard disks. After a period of
development which lasted over twice as long
as the war depicted in the game, FRIEDRICH
is now released to the world. If players have
only half the fun playing the game that I had
designing it, they will truly love the game and
the elegance of its mechanics.
And maybe
they will be touched by the idea that there is
something quite alright with a world in which
states can be outlived by game ideas.
Richard Sivél
Kunowice (Kunersdorf)
July 2004
translated by Bowen Simmons