Story
You are a small-town French cheesemaker in the early 20th century making, 
aging, and selling your artisanal cheeses. Your journey is a symphony of passion 
and dedication as you strive to create the most prestigious creamery with the 
most sought-after cheeses in all of France.
Overview
Fromage is a simultaneous worker-placement game where you make cheese 
and gather resources by placing Workers 
 onto the board quadrant that is 
facing you. Once all players have finished their actions, the board rotates, 
aging the cheese, and presenting everyone with a new quadrant. At game-
end, you score Prestige Points 
 for your cheese and for managing your 
creamery’s resources. The player with the most Prestige Points wins.

Setup
Each Insert 
 shows a player count and a numeral (I/II). 
Find the 4 Inserts that match your player count. Use side I for 
your first game. Experienced players may use any combination 
of I and II sides, or the additional 4-player setup printed on the 
Boards. Slot the Inserts into the matching Board 
 quadrants. 
Return unused Inserts to the box.
Fit the 4 Board quadrants together in any configuration. Place 
the Resource Tile 
 in the center of the Board in a random 
orientation. Orient the Board so 1 quadrant faces each player. 
For 2-player games, sit facing opposite quadrants. For 4-player 
games, sit in a square formation.
Place a random Customer Token 
 on each 
 on the Villes Board quadrant.
Shuffle the Order Cards 
. Place roughly half the cards and Resource Tokens 
in each 
Resource Tray 
. Position them on opposite ends of the table so everyone can reach a tray.
Each player takes the 15 wood Cheese Tokens 
 and 3 Workers 
 of their chosen player color. 
Take a Soft 
, Hard 
, and Bleu 
 Worker Base and attach your Workers to them.
Each player takes a random Player Board 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. To determine your starting Resources, look at the 
Resource Tile 
. Take 2 Resources matching the Resource in the quadrant to your left, and 1 
Resource matching the quadrant opposite you.
•	 Structures 
 go in the space to the left of 
your Structure abilities.
•	 Livestock 
 go in the pasture.
•	 Fruit 
 goes in your basket.
•	 Orders 
 go face-up to the left of your 
Player Board.
Structure Tiles (Advanced Mode)
Draft Structure Tiles 
. Each player takes 4 random tiles. 
Set 1 tile aside to keep and pass the rest to the left; repeat 
until you have chosen 4 tiles. Then, place any number of 
your chosen tiles over the ones printed on your Player Board. 
Return unwanted tiles to the box.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 in Fromagerie 
Delicatessen
Delicatessen
Calf Barn
Calf Barn
Garden Shed
Garden Shed
 
Restaurant
Restaurant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tasting Room
Tasting Room
Tool Shed
Tool Shed
 in Festival 
Market
Market
Specialty Cheese Shop
Specialty Cheese Shop
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 in Bistro 
Spice Garden
Spice Garden
Workshop
Workshop
Kitchen
Kitchen
Grooming House
Grooming House
 
 in 
Farmhouse
Farmhouse
 
Jammery
Jammery
Café
Café
 
 
 
Bleu de Gex
Distinctly nutty and smells of damp earth.
 
 
 
Mimolette
Caramel undertones, distinct appearance.
 
 
 
Rochebaron
Creamy, mushroomy decadence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or
4-player seating:
Cheese Trolley
Cheese Trolley

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turn Structure
At the start of each turn, all players Retrieve Workers. Then, all players simultaneously take actions 
in the quadrant that is currently facing them. Using your available Workers 
, you may perform ONE 
Gather Resources action and ONE Make Cheese action in either order. 
When everyone is ready, rotate the board 90 degrees clockwise and begin the next turn.
You
Your current quadrant
Make Cheese (once per turn)
Gather Resources (once per turn)
Rotate the board 90 degrees 
clockwise after each turn
Retrieve Workers
At the start of each turn, check if any of your Workers are facing you. Take those Workers and place 
them in front of you. These Workers are now available to Make Cheese or Gather Resources.
At the start of the game, you haven’t placed any Workers yet, so all your Workers are available and 
there are no Workers to retrieve.
Do not retrieve Cheese Tokens 
. These will be scored at game-end.
This Worker is facing you, 
so you take this Worker.
This Worker is NOT facing you, 
so you do NOT take this Worker.
When the Board rotates, your Workers rotate with it. 
This automatically counts down the turns until your Worker is ready to be used again.
The more valuable cheeses take longer to age, and gathering more Resources takes more time.
So, when you choose a more powerful action, you have to wait longer to retrieve your Worker.
Now you can Make Cheese and Gather Resources in a new quadrant!
In the rare case that 2 or more players refuse to play until they see each other’s action first, 
those players take turns clockwise from the player facing the Structure quadrant of the Resource Tile. 
(Developer Note: Over hundreds of playtests, we never had to resort to this. This rule is included only because it is theoretically possible.)

Soft
Hard
Bleu
Aged 1 Month
(Bronze)
Aged 2 Months
(Silver)
Aged 3 Months
(Gold)
Cheese Types
Cheese Ages
Each cheese space has a Cheese Type 
(Soft, Hard, or Bleu). A space’s Cheese Type 
determines which Worker you must use to 
make that cheese.
Each cheese space also has an Age. Making 
Cheese with a greater Age is more valuable, 
but comes with a greater cost of having to wait 
longer before that Worker is available again. 
Cheese on a Bronze space will take 1 turn to 
fully age, Silver will take 2 turns, and Gold will 
take 3 turns. The benefits of the Bronze, Silver, 
and Gold spaces vary by Venue. (We’ll learn 
about the 4 Venues on pages 8-9.)
Some cheese spaces have a 
 or 
 icon. You 
must use a Fruit Token to make these cheeses. 
(We’ll learn about Fruit on page 10.)
You can only Make Cheese ONCE per turn.
In 1-3 player games, some cheese spaces have 
a 
. You cannot make cheese here.
To make this Bleu Cheese, place a Cheese Token on the space. 
Then place your Bleu Cheese Worker on top.
Send Workers 
 to acquire Resources that can be used 
to expand your creamery and make it more efficient.
To Gather Resources, place one of your available 
Workers on an empty space in the quadrant of 
the Resource Tile 
 that’s facing you. Each 
quadrant provides a type of Resource (Structures, 
Livestock, Fruit, or Orders) with 3 spaces (labeled 
1, 2, and 3).
When you place a Worker on one of these spaces, 
immediately take the corresponding number of 
Resources from the Resource Tray. (We’ll learn 
about each Resource on pages 10-11.) Remember, 
the more Resources you gather, the longer it will 
take for your Worker to be ready again.
You can only Gather Resources ONCE per turn.
Do not place Cheese Tokens 
 on Resource spaces. 
The Worker type (Soft, Hard, or Bleu) does not matter when Gathering Resources.
You may use Resources on the same turn you acquired them.
The Fruit, Livestock, and Structures come in a variety of shapes, but are functionally the same.
Resources are unlimited. If a Resource Tray runs out, take Resources from the other tray or swap 
some of your used Resources with a x3/x5 token 3
3 .
This turn, the Structure 
 Resource action is facing you. 
You place your Worker on the 2 space and immediately take 
2 Structure Tokens. You will have to wait 2 turns for this 
Worker to be available again.
A creamery is only as good as the cheese it makes! 
You will score most of your Prestige Points 
 by 
Making Cheese. 
To Make Cheese, place a Cheese Token 
 
on an empty cheese space in your current 
quadrant. Then place your Worker 
 of 
matching Cheese Type on top.
Make Cheese
Gather Resources
When placing a Worker, plan where you want your Worker to be available next. Your Worker will 
become available when the quadrant that it points at has rotated to you. (See page 13 for details.)
Strategy Tip

Show off your cheese to crowds gathered at 
the cheese festival in the town square.
Score points by making orthogonally 
adjacent cheeses (diagonal cheeses are 
not adjacent). The Free Sample spaces 
 
count as having all players’ Cheese Tokens 
there. Bronze spaces are adjacent to 0 
, 
Silver spaces are adjacent to 1 
, and 
Gold spaces are adjacent to 2 
. At 
game-end, count your adjacent cheeses 
and consult the scoring rubric on the 
board. You may score multiple groups of 
adjacent cheese.
Impress customers with your wide selection 
of cheeses displayed at the local fromagerie. 
Each shelf’s Display Sign 
 has a bonus. 
Shelves for longer-aged cheeses offer 
more valuable bonuses. If a sign shows 
a Resource bonus, immediately gain 
the bonus after placing a Cheese Token 
there. At game-end, count the number 
of different shelves with your Cheese 
Tokens and consult the scoring rubric 
on the board. For each of your Cheese 
Tokens on a shelf with a point bonus, 
add the indicated number of points.
Serve cheese pairings to prestigious 
guests of a famous French restaurant.
Score points for each plate with your 
Cheese Token. Make pairings by 
placing 2 of your Cheese Tokens on 
the same table. At game-end, consult 
the scoring rubric on the board. 
The number of pairings you made 
determines how many points each 
plate is worth.
Deliver cheese to cities across the country 
to expand your customer base.
The map is divided into 6 regions. 
Cheese spaces influence the regions 
they touch. Bronze spaces influence 
1 region, Silver spaces influence 2 
regions, and Gold spaces influence 
3 regions. At game-end, if you have 
the most influence in a region, take 
the Customer Token 
. 
The value of a token varies by player 
count, as indicated on the board.
If tied for most influence, flip the 
token to the tied side 
. Tied 
players score the indicated number 
of points. The value varies by player 
count. In 1-2 player games, ties are 
worth 0 points.
Venues
You (red player) score 6 points for your group of 4 Cheese Tokens,
and 2 points for your group of 2 Cheese Tokens. 
You score 6 + 2 = 8 Prestige Points.
You (red player) make a cheese on the left Silver shelf and immediately 
gain a Resource of your choice. You choose to draw an Order Card.
You have Cheese Tokens on 3 different shelves worth 5 points, 
plus 1 for each of your Cheese Tokens on the bottom-right shelf. 
You score 5 + 1 + 1 = 7 Prestige Points.
You (red player) have 1 pairing, so you score using the row marked for 1 pairing.
You score 1 point for your Bronze plate, 
3 points for each of your Silver plates, 
and 5 points for your Gold plate. 
You score 1 + 3 + 3 + 5 = 12 Prestige Points.
You (red player) have the most cheese in the purple, blue, 
white, and green regions so you take those Customer Tokens. 
You tied for most cheese in the orange region. 
You score 3 + 3 + 4 + 5 = 15 Prestige Points.
+
Discard an unused Resource.
If you do, gain any Resource.
Gain 1 of any Resource.
Gain 2 different Resources.

Fruit 
Use Fruit to make Jam and Fruited Cheeses to add a twist 
to traditional cheese flavors. Fruit gives you access to 
some cheese spaces that are otherwise blocked.
When gaining Fruit Tokens, place them in your 
Player Board’s basket. To make cheese in a space 
with a Fruited Cheese 
 or Jam 
 icon, you must 
use Fruit. Move the Fruit Token from your basket to 
the corresponding spent area. At game-end, score 
Fruit by multiplying the number of Fruit you used 
for Fruited Cheese by the number of Fruit you used 
for Jam.
Livestock 
Livestock provide milk that helps you make more cheese. 
When milking Livestock, you can place a Cheese Token 
without using a Worker. This enables you to make multiple 
cheeses in a turn and possibly end the game earlier.
When gaining Livestock Tokens, place them in your 
Player Board’s pasture. At any time, use a Milking 
Parlour 
 by moving the required number of 
Livestock from the pasture to the chosen Milking 
Parlour. Then immediately place that Milking 
Parlour’s Bonus Cheese: Place a Cheese Token 
on a space in your current Venue matching the 
Bonus Cheese Type and Age. Do not put a Worker 
on it. You can use each Milking Parlour once.
You can do a Make Cheese action and place a 
Bonus Cheese in the same turn.
You can place multiple Bonus Cheeses in the 
same turn.
If placing a Bonus Cheese on a space with a 
Fruited Cheese or Jam icon, you must use Fruit.
Orders 
Fulfill Orders to build a loyal customer base. Optimize your Order 
and Venue scoring by carefully planning which cheese spaces to 
use for completing Order Cards.
When drawing Order Cards, place them face-up to the 
left of your Player Board. Orders have 2 requirements: a 
Cheese Type and Age. When you place a Cheese Token that 
matches the requirements, you may immediately complete 
the Order by placing it to the right of your Player Board. At 
game-end, consult the scoring rubric.
You can only complete 1 Order per Cheese Token, even 
if it would satisfy multiple Orders’ requirements.
You cannot retroactively complete Orders; if you draw 
an Order and previously made a cheese that matches its 
requirements, the Order is not completed.
You can complete Orders using Bonus Cheese from 
milking Livestock.
Structures 
Build Structures to upgrade your creamery and increase 
its efficiency. Structures give you unique abilities and 
scoring bonuses. 
When gaining Structure Tokens, place them on the space 
to the left of your Structure abilities. At any time, unlock 
a Structure ability by moving Structure Tokens from this 
space to fill the set of empty scaffolding spaces 
. Then 
you can start using its ability. Abilities can be triggered any 
number of times. Evaluate scoring abilities at game-end.
(Clarifications for Player Board Structure Abilities are on the 
back of the rulebook.)
You have 1 Fruited Cheese and 3 Jams. 
You score 1 x 3 = 3 Prestige Points.
You decide to build 2 of your Structure Tokens 
on the Barn to unlock its ability.
You just made a Fruited Cheese. You must move a Fruit 
Token from your basket to the Fruited Cheese space.
Cheese Age
(Aged 3 Months 
a.k.a “Gold”)
You decide to milk your 2 Livestock, so you move them 
to a Milking Parlour. This Milking Parlour’s Bonus 
Cheese is a Bronze Soft Cheese.
You can now place a Cheese Token on a Bronze Soft 
Cheese Space without using a Worker.
You completed 4 Orders.
You score 5 Prestige Points.
 
 
 
Requirements:
Required number
of Livestock
Bonus Cheese 
Type & Age
Cheese Type 
(Bleu)
 
 
 

Game-End
When a player places their final Cheese Token, they must declare that game-end is triggered. When all 
players finish the current turn, the game ends.
Remove Workers from the Board. Total the scores for each Venue and Resource. Score 1 Prestige Point 
for every 2 unused Resources. The player with the most Prestige Points 
 wins. If tied, the player that 
made more cheese wins. If still tied, victory is shared.
Clarification:
All Cheese Tokens on the Board count, regardless if they have fully aged or not. So, on the final turn, 
make the best available cheese and gather as many Resources as possible.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Name
Structures
Fruit
Orders
1 per 2 
unused 
Total
Red
Strategy Tips
Plan Ahead!
When placing a Worker, plan where you want 
the Worker to be available next. The Worker 
will become available when the quadrant that it 
points at has rotated to you.
Use this method of planning to ensure that you 
have the desired number of Workers available 
on future turns.
If your 3 Workers point in the same direction, 
you will retrieve all 3 on the same turn. This 
may be undesirable as you can usually only 
place 2 of them (unless you have certain 
Structure abilities), so you may have 1 Worker 
that can’t take an action.
If you want to take actions in a particular 
quadrant, make sure to point your Worker(s) 
toward it. If none of your Workers point 
toward it, you may have no Workers available 
that turn. 
You place your Bleu Cheese Worker to gather 2 Livestock. 
The Worker token is pointed at the Festival, so it will 
become available when the Festival is facing you.
This fits your strategy since you plan to make a Bleu 
Cheese next to the one you previously made in the Festival.
Focus on a Few Things
Each Venue and Resource gives an increasing 
number of points the more you interact with it. 
So, focus your strategy on a couple Venues and a 
couple Resources.
 
 
 
Chevrotin des Aravis
Delicate, nearly sweet, mildly gamy.
 
 
 
Subtly sweet, complex Basque treasure.
Ossau-Iraty
Complete Orders Strategically
You should not always complete an Order Card 
just because you can. If the cheese does not fit 
your strategy for the Venue, you could end up 
scoring poorly in that Venue.
You have an Order requiring a Bleu Gold cheese.
You could complete it by making the highlighted cheese. 
However, this does not fit your Festival strategy 
since it is not adjacent to your Cheese Token. 
Perhaps you should complete this Order in another Venue.
Fourme d'Ambert
 
 
 
Eggy, with distinct notes of heavy cream.

Solo Mode
As factories rise, your small creamery must now compete against mass production. Can you preserve tradition, 
and avoid disappearing in the shadow of the corporate cheese manufacturers to secure your place in cheese-
making history?
In this mode, you play against the Corporation. Follow all the standard rules of play with the 
following exceptions:
Setup
For your first game, place the Level 1 Corporation Board beside your Player Board.
Place the Corporation’s Cheese Tokens on the Corporation Board’s cheese spaces. On the higher 
difficulty boards, you will need to combine 2 different player colors. There will be no functional 
difference between the Corporation’s different color Cheese Tokens.
The Corporation does not use Workers, nor start with any Resources.
Form a single deck of all the Order cards.
For experienced players, do the following instead of the Structure Tile draft:
Draw 4 tiles, keep 1, and discard the rest.
Then, draw 3, keep 1, and discard the rest.
Then, draw 2, keep 1, and discard the other.
Finally, draw 1.
Gameplay
Each turn, the Corporation acts first and 
draws an Order Card. Take the Corporation’s 
leftmost Cheese Token and place it on an 
empty cheese space in your current Venue 
that matches the card’s requirements. If 
there are multiple cheese spaces that meet 
the card’s requirement, choose one. The 
Corporation does not need Fruit to place on 
a Fruited Cheese or Jam space. Then discard 
the Order Card. If you run out of Order Cards, 
shuffle the discard pile.
If there are no available cheese spaces that 
meet the Order Card’s requirement, place it 
on the Corporation Board’s card space to be 
scored at game-end.
Game End
The Corporation triggers game-end if it has 
no Cheese Tokens remaining.
The Corporation scores the highest visible 
number on its cheese track, plus its Customer 
Tokens, plus 3 points per Order Card. 
If you win, try defeating the Corporation 
at the next Level. Each Level introduces an 
additional Corporation Rule to increase the 
difficulty.
At the start of the turn, the Corporation draws an Order Card.
The card shows a Bronze Soft cheese.
So, you place a Corporation Cheese Token on a Bronze Soft space.
 
 
 
Rustic, mushroomy, iconic softness.
Camembert
3131
The Corporation scores:
36 Prestige Points for its cheeses, 
15 points for its 5 Order Cards, 
and 5 points for its Customer Token 
for a total of 56 Prestige Points.
 
 
 
Savory and balanced, not sharp
Bleu des Causses
 
 
 
Robust, ancient tradition.
Cantal
 
 
 
Rochebaron
Creamy, mushroomy decadence.
 
 
 
Chevrotin des Aravis
Delicate, nearly sweet, mildly gamy.
 
 
 
Subtly sweet, complex Basque treasure.
Ossau-Iraty
The Corporation
Solo Mode Level 1
At the start of each turn, the Corporation 
draws 
 and makes the shown cheese in 
your Venue. If it can’t, it scores the 
.
3131
Space for scored 
Order Cards
Corporation 
Rule
Difficulty

Place a Worker here 
to gain the Resource 
shown. Retrieve the 
Worker at the start of 
the next turn. This does 
not count as a Gather 
Resources action, so you 
could use all 3 Workers 
in 1 turn.
Structure Abilities
 
Each Player Board has a set of 4 unique, but parallel, abilities. For example, the leftmost ability on each 
Player Board functions the exact same way while outputting a different Resource.
When gaining the shown 
Resource (whether from 
Gathering Resources, 
the Fromagerie, or 
another Structure 
ability), gain 1 additional 
Resource of that type. 
You can use this ability 
once per turn.
When placing a Cheese 
Token in the Venue 
shown, gain 1 of the 
Resource shown. This 
includes when placing 
a Bonus Cheese from a 
Milking Parlour.
At game-end, gain 1 
Prestige Point for each 
of the Resource shown 
that you used. Unused 
Resources do not count.
Game Designers: Ben Rosset & Matthew O’Malley | Developers/Publishers: Andrew Nerger & Jeffrey Chin
Artist: Pavel Zhovba | Assistant Artists: Arning Echano, Brian Masangkay, John Morris 
Graphic Designer: Jeffrey Chin | 3D Modeler: Hector Lopez | Cheese Consultants: Nate Willis & Lisa Little (Prairie Fruits & Farms)
©2024 R2i Games
4 Board Quadrants 
 
1 Resource Tile 
 
12 Inserts 
 
4 Player Boards 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Resource Trays 
12 Workers 
60 Cheese Tokens 
Component List
36 Order Cards 
36 Structure Tokens 
36 Livestock Tokens 
 
36 Fruit Tokens 
32 Structure Tiles 
6 Customer Tokens 
8 x3/x5 Tokens 
Credits