Fun Facts is a cooperative party game 
that tests how well you know the other players.
Each turn, secretly answer a personal question with a number. 
Players will try to place their answers in ascending order 
by predicting how everyone else answered. 
Then reveal them to find out your score.
After 8 questions, write your final score in the Record of Legends 
and try to beat your high score the next time you play!
•	 Shuffle the cards  
  and then place 8 in a facedown pile on the table. 
Put the remaining cards back in the box. They won’t be used during this game.
•	 Give each player an Arrow  
  and a marker  
  in the matching color. Each player 
writes their name on the Arrow, pointing up. The other side (blank) is called the Answer side.
•	 Choose a player who takes the Star  
  in front of them; they are the first player.
Setup
MAX
LUCY
TOM
LEAH

The first player draws a card and reads the question out loud.
Then all players write, simultaneously and secretly, their own answer on the Answer side 
of their Arrow. You must always write a number, sometimes followed by a unit (second, feet, 
year, etc.). Some cards require an answer between 0 (the least) and 100 (the most), as indicated 
in their lower-right corner 
.
During this phase, you cannot share any information about your answer with other players.
Important: If the card is not applicable to your group, feel free to set it aside and draw a new card 
from the box.
The first player places their Arrow in the middle of the table, Answer side down.
Then, starting with the player to their left and going clockwise, each player places their Arrow 
in relation to the other players’ Arrows, still Answer side down. To decide where to place 
your Arrow, you must predict the other answers and where yours falls in line.
You can therefore place your Arrow:
•	 Above if you think your answer is the highest.
•	 Below if you think your answer is the lowest.
•	 Between two Arrows if you think your answer falls between two players.
During this phase, you cannot share any information about your answer with other players.
After all players have placed their Arrows, the first player can move their own and only their own, 
if they want to.
Then continue to the “Reveal” phase.
The game plays over 8 turns, each one with three phases:
1. Answer          2. Place          3. Reveal
Gameplay Overview
Answer
Place

Flip over all the Arrows one by one, starting with the lowest, to reveal everyone’s answers.
Then remove any Arrows that were placed incorrectly to make an increasing line, from 
the lowest to highest number (ties are always considered correctly placed, see example 
below). If there are multiple possibilities, choose which Arrows to remove.
Gain 1 point per correctly placed Arrow, then the first player writes the score on the Star. 
For all following turns, add your score to the one from the previous turn.
Finally, the first player gives the Star to the player to their left. This player now becomes the first 
player and a new turn begins.
Example: In a 5-player game, reveal 5 Arrows. The 30 Arrow or 50 Arrow is incorrectly placed, so you 
remove one of them from the line. Now you have an increasing line of 4 Arrows, from 20 to 60. 
You gain 4 points for this turn.
Reveal

PRODUCTION
REPOS
CREDITS
Designer: Kasper Lapp 
Publishing and development: Repos Production 
Full credits on: www.rprod.com/en/fun-facts/credits
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2022. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
Repos Production SRL • Rue des Comédiens, 22 • 1000 Brussels – Belgium
+32 471 95 41 32 • www.rprod.com
The material in this game uses certain trade names and trademarks, whether registered or not, that are 
the property of their respective owners. This game and the use of this material is in no way sponsored, 
supported, commissioned or approved by the holders of these brands, including all rights reserved. 
This material may only be used for private entertainment.
Contents
195 cards • 8 Arrows • 8 erasable markers • 1 Star 
• 1 Record of Legends • 1 rulebook
End of the Game
The game ends after you’ve played through 8 cards.
Add your final score to the Record of Legends and compare it 
with the table below to find out how well you know your teammates!
Try to beat your score the next time you play!
Score grid
8-12
8-13
8-15
8-17
8-19
Gotta start somewhere. 
Try again!
13-19
14-23
16-27
18-31
20-35
Totally average, 
but you could do better.
20-26
24-33
28-39
32-45
36-51
Nice score, 
you’re hitting your stride.
27-31
34-39
40-47
46-55
52-63
Excellent!
You’re clearly close!
Perfect! No more secrets 
between you!