TM
Dearest Quincey,
Eight years ago the Devil himself came to London to dwell in 
Carfax Abbey. Eight years ago my dear friend Lucy became one 
of the Un-Dead, and my own soul was cast into peril by the 
pernicious Count Dracula. Eight years ago Quincey Morris, your 
namesake, gave his life to see that evil destroyed. Would that his 
sacrifice had not been in vain. 
My dreams have been troubled, my sleep disturbed by visions of 
a castle in the Carpathian Mountains. I see a carriage with four 
black horses and smell the salt of the sea, and the awful tang of 
blood. I wrote to Professor Van Helsing at once when the dreams 
began, and he confirmed my fears: the Count is returned. 
As the dreams continued, I awoke one night to find myself 
standing in the hall with Mr. Morris’s old knife in one hand. I 
knew not what mischief I might have wrought had I not awoken 
when I did, nor did I have any longing to learn. I packed my 
things, kissed you and Jonathan good-bye, and departed that 
morning to visit Arthur—Lord Godalming—in the country. 
Doctor Seward and Van Helsing arrived soon after, and we 
hunters of the Vampire were thus reunited. Only Jonathan 
remained, staying with you, my son, to keep you safe. 
My son, we do not know where Dracula makes his lair, nor do we 
know his ultimate goal, except that it is evil and a grave peril to 
all the world. He lives despite our efforts, and his revenge will be 
terrible indeed. 
Jonathan’s instructions are to give you this letter in the event of 
my death, when you are old enough. I hope that you never read 
these words. I hope that I will come home to you. But I fear that 
none of us may survive the fury of Dracula.
With love,
Your mother Mina
Letter from Mina Harker, to her son Quincey, 1898
Game Overview
F
ury of Dracula is a one-versus-many 
deduction game inspired by Bram Stoker’s classic 
novel Dracula. One player controls Dracula, and up to 
four players assume roles as hunters. During the game, Dracula 
attempts to elude the hunters as he spawns new vampires across 
Europe, while the hunters try to find and destroy Dracula and 
end his reign of terror.
 Using this Booklet
The purpose of this Learn to Play booklet is to teach 
new players how to play Fury of Dracula. This booklet 
includes all the rules players need to begin playing, but 
omits many rules exceptions and specific card interactions. 
It is recommended that players read this booklet in its 
entirety before playing their first game. 
This game also includes a Rules Reference, which describes 
detailed rules and special exceptions that are omitted from 
this booklet. During the game, consult the Rules Reference 
when questions arise.

1 Rules Reference
6 Storm Tokens
4 Fog Tokens
2 Bats Tokens
4 Bite Tokens
16 Ticket 
1 Consecrated 
Ground Token
1 Influence 
4 Rumor 
1 Time 
28 Encounter 
Cards
4 Hunter 
Reference Cards
5 Power Cards
3 Heavenly 
Host Tokens
3 Despair Tokens
4 Hunter Figures 
1 Dracula Figure
5 Plastic Figures
1 Game Board
5 Character Sheets
Wealth
When you supply in a large 
city, draw 2 item cards 
(instead of 1).
Privilege
When you reserve a ticket, 
gain 2 ticket tokens (instead 
Lord Godalming
Rage
After a hunter is defeated, advance the influence 
track by 2 plus the number of despair tokens on the 
time track.
Pride
If Dracula plays either “Escape as Mist” or “Escape 
as Bat” before he has played a number of combat 
cards greater than the number of despair tokens on 
the time track, the card is canceled.
The Fury of Dracula
After you place a city location card or “Hide” on the 
trail while all 3 despair tokens are on the time track, 
advance the influence track by 3.
4 Hunter Sheets 
1 Dracula Sheet
31 Damage 
7 “5” Damage 
24 “1” Damage
8 Roadblock 
Double-sided
75 Event Cards
25 Dracula 
50 Hunter
70 Location Cards
10 Sea 
60 Land
12 Hunter 
Combat Cards
13 Dracula 
Combat Cards
EscapE as Bat
This combat ends (see Dracula’s 
“Pride” ability).
If it is night and Dracula was in the 
combat, you may clear your current 
hideout and secretly choose a city up to 
2 roads away that is not occupied by a 
hunter. Place its location card facedown 
and “Escape as Bat” faceup in this hideout. 
38 Item Cards
Choose 1 or more hunters to 
be removed from this combat.
Then, discard this card.
“I knew not what would happen if the 
creatures were to cross the Holy circle—
fortunately none dared.” 
holy ciRcle
1 Reference Map
Components

Setup
W
hen setting up a game of Fury of Dracula, 
players perform the following steps:
1.	 Place Game Board: Unfold the game 
board and place it in the center of the 
play area within reach of all players.
2.	 Set Influence Track: Place the 
influence marker on space “0” of the 
influence track.
3.	 Set Time Track: Place the time marker on 
the yellow Monday (day) space on the time 
track.
4.	 Assign Roles: One player chooses to control Dracula; 
he should sit near the side of the board showing the 
trail. The remaining players each choose a hunter to 
control. Each player takes a character sheet and figure, 
each hunter takes one hunter reference card, and 
Dracula takes the reference map. 
Time 
The Trail
5.	 Prepare Hunter Cards: Shuffle all item cards and place 
them facedown near the board (5a). Then, shuffle both the 
hunter and Dracula event cards together into a single 
deck and place it near the item deck (5b). Sort the hunter 
combat cards by type and place them in three distinct piles 
near the item deck (5c).
6.	 Prepare Dracula Cards: Sort the encounter cards (6a) 
and Dracula combat cards (6b) into two separate decks and 
individually shuffle them. Then, create the location deck 
(6c) by organizing the location cards numerically. Place all 
three decks facedown near Dracula’s side of the board.
7.	 Create Token Pool: Place the ticket tokens facedown 
near the board and randomize them. Then, separate the 
remaining tokens by type and place them in piles near the 
board.
Fewer Than Five Players
If there are three hunter players, one player controls 
two hunters. If there are two hunter players, each player 
controls two hunters. If there is one hunter player, that 
player controls all four hunters.
Influence 
Dr. John Seward
Physician
When you or another hunter 
in your city rests, that hunter 
recovers 2 damage (instead 
Prepared
You can have up to 4 item 
cards and up to 4 event cards 
(instead of 3 of each).
Wealth
When you supply in a large 
city, draw 2 item cards 
(instead of 1).
Privilege
When you reserve a ticket, 
gain 2 ticket tokens (instead 
Lord Godalming
Psychic Bond
As an action, if you are in 
the same city as another 
hunter, force Dracula to tell 
you if he is in your region.
Drained
You always have 1 bite token 
and are always weakened 
(you must keep 1 item and 
1 event card revealed).
Mina Harker
Rage
After a hunter is defeated, advance the influence 
track by 2 plus the number of despair tokens on the 
time track.
Pride
If Dracula plays either “Escape as Mist” or “Escape 
as Bat” before he has played a number of combat 
cards greater than the number of despair tokens on 
the time track, the card is canceled.
The Fury of Dracula
After you place a city location card or “Hide” on the 
trail while all 3 despair tokens are on the time track, 
advance the influence track by 3.
Van Helsing
Leader
When you trade, you may 
choose to trade event cards, 
instead of item cards, with a 
hunter in any city. 
Strong Willed
You have 2 bite spaces. 
(You are defeated when you 
would gain a third bite token.)
successfully avoided swipe after swipe of 
the outstretched claws of another of the 
Count’s vile spawn.”
successfully avoided swipe after swipe of 
the outstretched claws of another of the 
Count’s vile spawn.”
The vampire suffers 1 damage.
“Then it was terrible; his eyes had begun to 
grow wide and glow an unnatural red—I 
did the first thing that came naturally.” 
5a
5b
5c
6a
6b
6c

8.	 Draw Encounter Cards: Dracula draws five encounter 
cards for his starting hand.
9.	 Place Hunters: Each hunter places his figures on a city 
on the board. Lord Godalming is placed in Constanta (A), 
Dr. John Seward is placed in Marseilles (B), Mina Harker 
is placed in Brussels (C), and Van Helsing is placed in 
Amsterdam (D). When playing the advanced game, each 
hunter chooses his starting city (see “Advanced Game 
Setup” on page 2 in the Rules Reference).
A Guide for New Hunters
Hunters should focus on tracking down and killing Dracula. 
Doing so takes time and cooperation. During the early part 
of the game, hunters should use actions to move around the 
map, hoping to find a location that is on Dracula’s trail.
It is helpful for hunters to spread out to cover more ground. 
While hunters move around during the early part of the 
game, they should gather as many useful items, events, 
and ticket tokens as possible so that, when they are closer 
to finding Dracula’s location later the game, they can 
efficiently corner him and defeat him.
 Players as Hunters or Dracula
When playing Fury of Dracula, each player controls one 
character—one of the hunters or Dracula. When a rule or 
effect refers to either a hunter or Dracula, it is referring to 
both the player and the character (hunter or Dracula) that 
player controls. 
A
B
C
E
10.	Choose Dracula’s Starting Location: Dracula chooses 
a starting location. Instead of placing his figure on the 
board, he secretly searches his location cards for the card 
matching the location where he wishes to start. Then, he 
places that card facedown on the first space (leftmost space) 
of the trail. Dracula cannot choose a sea zone, Castle 
Dracula, or a city that a hunter occupies as his starting 
location. After placing a location card, Dracula places his 
figure on the red circle near the first space of the trail (E).
Object of the Game
uring Fury of Dracula, the hunters play 
as a team and win or lose the game together. The 
hunters are searching for Dracula as he travels through 
Europe in secret. Dracula’s objective is to advance the influence 
track to space “13” by creating new vampires and defeating the 
hunters. The hunters’ objective is to find and defeat Dracula 
before his influence engulfs Europe.

Playing the Game
F
ury of Dracula is played over a series of 
game rounds. Each round consists of a hunter 
phase followed by a Dracula phase. Rounds continue until 
the game ends (see “Winning the Game” on page 9).
Each hunter phase contains both day and night. During day, 
hunters can move around Europe and search for Dracula. 
During night, hunters can investigate and prepare for the 
upcoming day. 
First, each hunter performs one action 
during day. Then, each hunter performs 
one action during night. Players perform 
actions in numerical order according to the 
activation order number that is printed on 
the upper-left corner of each character sheet.
There are seven different actions a hunter can perform. Each 
hunter reference cards provides a brief description of these 
action. Hunters perform actions as follows:
Move Action
When a hunter performs a move action, he moves his figure on 
the board to indicate his new location, which must be either a 
city or a sea zone (see “What Are Locations?”). Hunters can 
only perform move actions during day. 
Activation Order 
Number
What Are Locations?
There a two types of locations on the game board: cities 
and sea zones.
Each city has a name and is either a large or small city. 
Some cities are also ports. Each port is adjacent to a sea 
zone and has an anchor icon to indicate this.
Sea zones are spaces on the board that 
are divided by borders. Two sea zones 
that share a border are adjacent. 
Large 
City
Small 
City
Anchor 
Sea Zone Border
What Are Roads and Railways?
Roads and railways are 
lines that connect cities to 
other cities. If two cities are 
connected by one road, they 
are adjacent. In the diagram, 
the two large cities are not 
adjacent to each other, but are 
both adjacent to the small city.
Each railway connects one city to another city. Hunters can 
use railways to move greater distances or between cities that 
are not adjacent. In the diagram, a hunter can move by 
railway to move between the two large cities even though 
they are not adjacent. 
Road
Railway
A hunter may move by road, railway, or sea, as follows:
Road: A hunter can move from one city to an adjacent city (see 
“What Are Roads and Railways?”).
Railway: If a hunter has a ticket token, he can spend it to 
move by railway. He uses a value on the spent ticket token to 
determine how many railways he can use to move to a new city. 
This is described in detail later.
Sea: If a hunter is in a port, he can move to an adjacent sea 
zone. If a hunter is in a sea zone, he can move to either an 
adjacent port or an adjacent sea zone. If a hunter is in a sea 
zone during day, he must move. If a hunter is in a sea zone 
during night, he must pass.

Supply Action
To prepare for the deadly, inevitable confrontation with the 
Count, the hunters need to gather supplies by drawing item and 
event cards.
If a hunter performs a supply action in a large 
city, he draws the top item card from the item 
deck and places it in his hand. If a hunter is in a 
small city, he does not draw an item card.
Then, an event card is drawn. When a player 
draws an event card, he must read it as some 
event cards must be played immediately. Event 
cards are drawn differently during day and night, 
as follows:
Day: During day, hunters take a card from the top of the 
event deck. If the top card of the event deck has a hunter icon, 
the hunter draws the card by placing it in his hand. If the top 
card of the event deck has a Dracula icon, the card is placed 
facedown in the discard pile.
Night: During night, hunters take a card from the bottom 
of the event deck. If the event card on the bottom of the deck 
has a hunter icon, the hunter draws the card by placing it in his 
hand. If the event card on the bottom of the deck has a Dracula 
icon, Dracula draws the card by placing it in his hand. 
Hunter 
Trade Action
When a hunter performs a trade action, he chooses another 
hunter in the same city as him. The hunters can show each 
other their item cards and ticket tokens and give any of those 
cards and tokens to each other. This exchange is private (see 
“Table Talk” on page 11).
Special Action
When a hunter performs a special action, he resolves either 
an effect from an event card in his hand or an ability from his 
character sheet that specifies that it can be used as an action.
Reserve a Ticket Action
To move by railway, hunters need to reserve 
tickets. When a hunter performs a reserve a 
ticket action, he gains a ticket token by taking 
it from the token pool. Then, he looks at it and places it in his 
play area. Each hunter can have two ticket tokens.
Rest Action
When a hunter performs a rest action, he recovers one damage.
Search Action
Dracula has the ability to hide encounter cards at locations he 
has visited. Hunters can use the search action to reveal these 
cards. This is explained in more detail later.
Ticket Token
Hunter Movement Example
It is day, and the hunters perform actions in turn order: 
1. Lord Godalming is in Toulouse, and he chooses to move 
by road. There are several cities adjacent to Toulouse, and he 
chooses to move to Barcelona.
2. Dr. Seward is in Marseilles, and he chooses to move by 
railway. He spends one of his ticket tokens that has a “3/2” 
on it. He chooses to move to Cologne, which is three railways 
away.
3. Van Helsing is in Genoa, which is a port. He chooses to 
move by sea, so he moves to the Tyrrhenian Sea.
4. Mina Harker had moved from the Mediterranean Sea to 
the Tyrrhenian Sea during the previous hunter phase. During 
day, she must move by sea. She chooses to move to the 
adjacent port city of Rome.

After each hunter has finished performing a night action, the 
Dracula phase begins. During the Dracula phase, Dracula 
leaves misery in his wake as he recruits supporters, creates 
vampires, and warps the forces of nature. During each Dracula 
phase, Dracula moves and then places an encounter card at his 
new location.
Moving
Dracula can move by road and by sea, but he cannot move 
by railway. Instead of moving his figure on the board like 
hunters, Dracula tracks his movement by placing location cards 
facedown on the trail. Dracula’s location deck has one location 
card for each location on the board.
To move, Dracula slides all cards already on the trail one space 
to the right (see “Dracula Movement Example” on page 9). 
Then, he secretly chooses one card from the location deck and 
places the chosen card facedown on the first space of the trail. 
The location on the card he chooses must be adjacent to his 
current location. Dracula can use the reference map to help him 
determine his movement possibilities.
Sea location cards have a different card back from city location 
cards, which makes it dangerous for Dracula to move by sea 
because his location card will alert the hunters that he has done 
so. Additionally, each time Dracula moves from a port to a sea 
zone, he suffers two damage. Each time Dracula moves from a 
sea zone to another sea zone, he suffers one damage.
If Dracula moves to a city that a hunter occupies, Dracula is 
revealed (see “Revealing Dracula” on page 12).
Placing an Encounter Card
After Dracula moves, he chooses an encounter card from his 
hand and places it facedown on top of the location card on the 
first space of the trail. If Dracula placed a sea location on the 
trail this turn, or if he is currently revealed, he cannot place an 
encounter card.
Encounter cards allow Dracula to impede the hunters in various 
ways by laying traps and creating vampires. If Dracula ever has 
fewer than five encounter cards in his hand, he draws encounter 
cards until he has five cards.
What is the Trail?
The trail has six spaces and represents the locations where 
Dracula is and has been. Dracula uses the trail to covertly 
track his movement and to place encounter cards, which 
allow him to create vampires and hinder the hunters’ 
attempts to find him.
The first space on the trail corresponds to Dracula’s 
current location and is also where Dracula places location 
cards and encounter cards during the Dracula phase. 
Unless Dracula is revealed, his figure is placed in the circle 
above the first space of the trail. 
Each space of the trail can contain one of Dracula’s hideouts. 
A hideout comprises all cards and tokens on one of the 
trail’s spaces. This is typically a location card with an 
encounter card.
During each Dracula phase, before Dracula chooses a 
location card, all hideouts on the trail slide to create space 
for Dracula’s chosen card. Each hideout slides one space 
following the direction of the arrows.
The Trail
Influence Track

Winning the Game
racula wins the game by advancing the 
influence track to space “13.” He can advance 
the influence track in several ways, as follows:
Maturing a vampire encounter card advances the track 
by a number of spaces specified on that card. 
Resolving the “Fangs” combat card against a 
mesmerized hunter advances the track by one.
Defeating a hunter advances the track by two, plus one 
for each despair token on the board.
The hunters win the game if Dracula has 15 damage tokens on 
his character sheet, thereby defeating him.
Dracula Movement Example
Dracula started the game in Nantes, moved to Clermont-
Ferrand during the second day, and is now in Bordeaux.
Since the Nantes and Clermont-Ferrand cards are already on 
the trail, Dracula’s movement options are limited to Toulouse, 
Santander, and the North Atlantic.
He slides all of the hideouts on the trail one space.
He cannot move to Paris or Sargossa as they are not adjacent, 
having only railways and no roads connecting them to 
Bordeaux. He chooses to move to Santander, removing that 
card from the location deck.
Then, he places Santander in the first space of the trail.
Finally, he chooses an encounter card from his hand and 
places it on top of Santander.
BordeAux
clermont-FerrAnd
nantes
santander
santander

Additional Rules
T
his section provides additional rules required to 
play Fury of Dracula. For further clarifications 
or specific game effect interactions not covered here, 
see the Rules Reference.
Dawn and Dusk
During the hunter phase, dawn occurs before day and dusk 
occurs before night. During dawn and dusk, players advance 
time and then fight Dracula if he is revealed (see “Revealing 
Dracula” on page 12).
The time track has both day and night spaces. At dawn, the 
time marker advances from a night space to a day space, and at 
dusk, the time marker advances from a day space to a night 
space. Each day and night space has an abbreviation for a day 
of the week.
When the time tracker advances from Sunday 
night to Monday day, a week has passed. To 
indicate this, players place a despair token on 
one of the three spaces in the center of the 
time track. There is a small graphic on the 
time track to remind players to do this.
Despair tokens represent Dracula’s creeping influence over 
the unsuspecting citizens. These tokens have an effect over 
how much the influence track is advanced when hunters are 
defeated. Additionally, Dracula’s “The Fury of Dracula” ability 
on his character sheet triggers after all three despair tokens are 
placed on the board.
Night 
Space
Day 
Space
Place Despair 
Token Reminder
Placing a Despair 
Event and Item Cards
Event cards provide both hunters and Dracula with helpful 
effects and allies. Item cards provide hunters with useful assets 
that are most commonly used in combat with Dracula.
Event Cards
After a player draws an event card, he must read the card to 
determine when it is resolved. The top of each event card 
contains timing text that indicates when the card can be played. 
Some cards need to be played immediately while other cards 
can be used later at specific times.
To play an event card, a player reads the text on the card and 
resolves the described effect. Then, he places that event card 
faceup in the event discard pile.
Event cards can have multiple effects, and players must decide 
which effect to use when playing the card—some of these cards 
can be played as an ally. These cards have an “Ally” effect at the 
bottom of the card. When a hunter card is played as an ally, it is 
placed in the ally slot on the board. When a Dracula card is 
played as an ally, Dracula places that card faceup in his play area.
There can be only one hunter ally in play at a time. If a hunter 
chooses to use the ally effect on an event card and there is 
already an ally in play, the old ally is replaced with the new 
ally. Similarly, Dracula can only have one ally in play at a time. 
When an ally is removed from play, it is placed faceup in the 
event discard pile.
Item Cards
When a hunter draws an item card, he takes the top card from 
the item deck and places it in his hand. Most hunter cards can 
only be used in combat ( see “Combat” on page 12). These 
cards each contain a banner. Item cards without a banner 
describe when they can be played.
Play immediately or at dawn or dusk.
Immediately
Timing Text
Hunter Ally 
Slot

Ticket Tokens
Ticket tokens allow a hunter to move by 
railway. A hunter gains ticket tokens by 
performing a reserve a ticket action.
To move by railway, a hunter must spend 
one of his ticket tokens by revealing its 
faceup side. Then, he moves using the 
values on the ticket token before returning it facedown to the 
token pool. When moving, a hunter can use white, yellow, or a 
combination of both colors of railway.
Ticket tokens have white and yellow values, which determine 
how many railways a hunter can use to move to a new city. If a 
hunter moves using only white railways, he must use the white 
value on a ticket token to determine the distance he can move. 
If a hunter moves using only yellow railways or a combination 
of white and yellow railways, he must use the yellow values on 
ticket tokens to determine the distance he can move. If a ticket 
token does not have a yellow number, it cannot be used to move 
using yellow railways.
Faceup Side
Facedown Side
Maturing Encounters
During the Dracula phase, all hideouts on the trail slide to 
create space for Dracula to place a new card. If there are six 
hideouts on the trail when this happens, the hideout on the sixth 
space is matured.
When Dracula matures a hideout, he may resolve the matured 
effect on that hideout’s encounter card, if applicable, and discard 
the card. Then, Dracula returns the location card in the hideout 
to the location deck.
Maturing
The bottom of some encounter cards have a red section that 
has a “Matured Effect.” If a hideout is removed from the trail 
during the Dracula phase, Dracula 
may mature any of the encounter 
cards in that hideout by resolving 
the text in the “Matured Effect” 
section on those cards.
Vampire Encounters
There are three encounter cards that contain the word 
“Vampire” (“New Vampire,” “Aristocratic Vampire,” and 
“Reckless Vampire”). These encounters are called vampire 
encounters. These cards have a “Matured Effect” that, when 
resolved, advances the influence track.
The matured effect on a vampire encounter instructs a player to 
clear specific hideouts on the trail. When a hideout is cleared, 
all location cards in that hideout are returned to the location 
deck, all encounter cards in that hideout are discarded, and all 
tokens in that hideout are placed in the token pool.
What Are Hand Limits?
Each hunter sheet has two cards slots, one at the top that is 
used for item cards and one at the bottom that is used for 
event cards.
Most hunters have a hand limit of three for each card type 
(item and event cards), which is depicted by a hand limit 
icon on his character sheet in that card type’s slot.
Hunters can place their cards on these 
slots if they don’t want to hold them in 
their hands—this is helpful for players 
who need to manage multiple hands 
when controlling multiple hunters.
Dracula has a hand limit of four event 
cards which is shown in the event card 
slot on the bottom of his character 
sheet. 
Van Helsing
Leader
When you trade, you may 
choose to trade event cards, 
instead of item cards, with a 
hunter in any city. 
Strong Willed
You have 2 bite spaces. 
(You are defeated when you 
would gain a third bite token.)
Reveal this location card and choose 
a city in this region. Then, place 
2 fog tokens on that city.
If it is day, each hunter on this city 
becomes delayed.
Table Talk
During the game, players can talk with each other and 
share information about the cards in their hands. However, 
all communication must be open and in the presence of 
Dracula. If hunters share cards with each other, they must 
share those cards with Dracula as well.
When a hunter performs a trade action, he and the other 
hunter who is part of that trade action can trade cards in 
secret and communicate in private, without Dracula seeing 
those cards or hearing that conversation.
Item Hand Limit
Event Hand Limit
L d G d l i

Finding the Trail
After a hunter ends his movement on a city, Dracula must check 
all of the cards on the trail. If that location is a hideout on his 
trail, Dracula reveals the location card from that hideout by 
flipping it faceup. The revealed location card remains faceup 
until it is returned to Dracula’s location deck.
Ambushing
After a hunter ends his movement on a hideout that has one 
or more encounter cards in it, Dracula can choose to ambush 
that hunter. To ambush, Dracula chooses an encounter card in 
that hideout, then reveals and resolves the card’s effect, ignoring 
the matured effect. After he resolves that card, it is discarded. 
If Dracula chooses not to ambush, the encounter card remains 
as part of that hideout, and Dracula may ambush in the future 
when a hunter ends his movement on that location.
Search Action
If Dracula does not ambush a hunter, it may be because 
Dracula is hoping to mature newly created vampires. When a 
hunter is on a location with an encounter card he may perform 
a search action to resolve all of the encounter effects on those 
cards, ignoring the matured effect.
Revealing Dracula
If a hunter ends his movement on the city where Dracula is 
located (the location card on the first space of the trail), Dracula is 
revealed. When Dracula is revealed, place Dracula’s figure on the 
board on that city. Then, a combat occurs during the next dawn 
or dusk. Dracula cannot be revealed while he is on a sea zone.
Combat
If a hunter is on the same city as Dracula at dawn or dusk, 
combat occurs.
Before combat begins, the Hunter takes one “Dodge,” “Punch,” 
and “Escape” card from the hunter combat card piles and 
adds them to his hand of item cards—these cards do not count 
toward his hand limit. Then, Dracula shuffles the Dracula 
combat deck and draws five cards from it to use during the 
combat. Players resolve a combat by following these steps:
1. Choose Combat Cards: Each player 
chooses one card from his hand and places it 
facedown in the play area. The hunter must 
choose one of his cards that has a banner. This 
includes item cards with a red banner or combat 
cards (“Punch,” “Dodge,” and “Escape”) with a 
yellow banner.
2. Reveal Combat Cards: Both players 
simultaneously reveal their chosen cards.
Th
Banner
3. Compare Combat Icons: The players check if the 
combat icon on Dracula’s card matches a highlighted combat 
icon on the banner of the hunter’s card. If it does, the effect on 
Dracula’s revealed combat card is canceled. Then, Dracula flips 
that card facedown and it remains in the play area.
4. Resolve Dracula’s Effect: If Dracula’s revealed combat 
card was not canceled, Dracula resolves the effect on the card. 
Then, he flips that card facedown and it remains in the play 
area. Remember that Dracula’s “Pride” ability on his character 
sheet restricts when he can play the “Escape as Mist” and 
“Escape as Bat” combat cards.
5. Resolve Hunter’s Effect: If the hunter’s card was not 
canceled by resolving Dracula’s card, the hunter resolves the 
effect of his card, and it remains in the play area.
6. Refresh Hands: Dracula draws the top card of the 
Dracula combat deck. During each subsequent round, the 
combat card the hunter played during the previous round is 
returned to his hand.
Players continue resolving combat rounds until a combat ends 
in one of the following ways:
Dracula has played six combat cards.
Dracula wins the game by advancing the influence track 
to space “13.”
The hunters win the game by defeating Dracula.
All hunters involved in the combat are bitten, defeated, 
or have escaped.
Dracula resolves “Escape as Bat” or “Escape as Mist.” 
Dracula’s “Pride” ability explains the conditions under 
which these cards resolve.
After combat ends, each hunter in the combat places his 
hunter combat cards (“Dodge,” “Punch,” and “Escape”) back 
in the combat card piles near the board. Dracula shuffles all 
Dracula combat cards into his deck.
Multiple Hunters in Combat
Although the above rules are written with only one hunter 
in combat, multiple hunters can be in the same combat 
with Dracula.
If there are multiple hunters in Dracula’s current location, 
each hunter chooses a card. Then, before cards are 
revealed, Dracula chooses one hunter to be the engaged 
hunter. Only that hunter can block Dracula’s combat card. 
Then, both hunters’ cards are resolved.
See the “Combat” glossary entry in the Rules Reference for 
additional information. 

Damage
Each time a hunter or Dracula suffers damage, he takes a number 
of damage tokens from the token pool equal to the amount of 
damage suffered and places them on his character sheet. If a 
hunter or Dracula recovers damage, he removes a number of 
damage tokens from his character sheet equal to the amount of 
damage recovered and returns them to the token pool.
If the total value of damage tokens on a character sheet equal or 
exceeds that character’s health value, that character is defeated.
When a hunter is defeated, at dawn, his figure is placed on a 
hospital space on the board (see “Special Locations” on page 
14). Then, the hunter discards all of his event and item cards 
and returns all damage, bite, and ticket tokens to the token pool. 
If Dracula has been defeated, the hunters win the game.
Bitten Hunters
When a hunter is bitten, he places a bite token on a bite space 
on his character sheet. If a hunter has one or more bite tokens 
on his character sheet, he is weakened. A weakened hunter 
must keep one event card and one item card revealed. Since 
Mina is permanently weakened, she always keeps an event card 
and an item card revealed. 
Revealed item and event cards are placed on the item and event 
cards slots on the top and bottom of each character sheet (see 
“What Are Hand Limits?” on page 11). These revealed item 
cards are hidden during combat.
If a hunter is bitten but has no spaces to place his bite token, he 
is defeated. Therefore, Mina is defeated when she receives her 
first bite token, while Van Helsing is defeated when he receives 
his third bite token.
When a hunter is defeated, the influence track is advanced two 
spaces plus the number of despair tokens on the time track (as 
described by Dracula’s “Rage” ability on his character sheet). 
At dawn, the hunter is placed on the nearest hospital location. 
These locations are marked by a double icon (see “Special 
Locations” on page 14).
Combat Example
During the second week, Dracula and Mina are in the same 
location at dusk, so a combat occurs. Dracula draws five 
cards from his combat deck, and Mina takes the three hunter 
combat cards and adds them to her hand of item cards.
Since it is the second week of the game, there is only one 
despair token on the board. If Dracula wishes to escape, he 
will have to wait until at least round 3 to play an escape card.
Round 1:
None of the icons on the banner match the icon on “Claws,” 
so it resolves. It is night, so Mina suffers four damage. Then, 
Dracula flips “Claws” facedown and Mina resolves “Punch,” 
which causes Dracula to suffer one damage.
No one was defeated, so combat continues. Dracula draws 
one combat card from his combat deck, and Mina leaves 
“Punch” faceup in front of her.
Round 2:
This time, one of the icons matches “Strength,” so it is 
canceled and flipped facedown. Then, Mina resolves 
“Dodge,” which has no effect.
Dracula draws one combat card from his combat deck. Mina 
leaves “Dodge” faceup in front of her and takes “Punch” 
back into her hand.
Round 3: 
There are no matching icons and Dracula satisfies the “Pride” 
ability on his character sheet, so he resolves his card, causing 
combat to end immediately—before Mina can resolve her 
“Pistol” card.
The vampire suffers 1 damage.
The vampire suffers 1 damage
The engaged hunter suffers 2 damage.
Then, if it is night, choose any hunter
claws
Bite Space
Health Value
The engaged hunter suffers 2 damage.
If he played “Punch,” “Crucifix,” or a 
strEngth
This combat ends (see Dracula’s 
“Pride” ability).
EscapE as Mist
Weapon
pistol

Roadblock Tokens: A hunter cannot move 
through a road or railway that contains a 
roadblock token. When Dracula places a 
roadblock token, he places it on either a road 
or railway—the token is placed on the board 
with the road or railway side faceup, as 
appropriate. At the end of each dusk, Dracula 
removes one roadblock token from the board. 
Storm Tokens: A hunter cannot move into a 
sea zone that contains a storm token. At the end 
of dusk, Dracula removes one storm token from 
the board.
Special Locations
There are some locations on the board that function differently 
than other locations, as follows:
Castle Dracula: The location card for Castle 
Dracula has a different back so hunters know 
when the card is played. When Dracula places 
this card on the trail, he heals five damage. If a 
hunter is on Castle Dracula, he cannot supply or 
reserve a ticket.
Hospitals: Hospitals are spaces on the board 
attached to cities. There are hospitals in Madrid, 
Rome, and Budapest. When a hunter is defeated, 
he is placed at the nearest hospital (measured 
by roads) at dawn. If there are two equidistant 
hospitals, Dracula chooses which of those hospitals 
the hunter is placed at. The hunter figure is placed 
on the top portion of the hospital location. 
Then, the hunter discards all of his event and item cards and 
returns all damage, bite, and ticket tokens to their respective pools.
While a hunter is at a hospital, he can perform a supply action, 
but when he does he only draws item cards. During the day, a 
hunter at a hospital can perform a move action to move from 
the hospital to the attached city location. 
Storm 
Castle 
Hospital 
Location
Fighting Vampires
If a hunter performs a search action and is instructed to “fight 
this vampire,” a combat occurs. When fighting a vampire, 
players use the same rules for combat as they would in a combat 
with Dracula, and Dracula controls his vampires.
Each vampire has a health value printed on its card. When 
a vampire suffers damage, players follow the same rules used 
when either a hunter or Dracula 
suffers damage, placing damage 
tokens on the vampire encounter 
card instead of a character sheet. 
If the total value of damage tokens 
on the vampire equal or exceeds 
its health value, that vampire is 
defeated and its encounter card is 
discarded. If a vampire is still alive 
after a combat ends, any damage 
that vampire suffers stays on its card. 
Dracula cannot play escape cards for his vampires until he has 
three combat cards in play.
Event and Encounter Tokens
Some event and encounter cards instruct players to place tokens 
on the board that have lingering game effects, as follows:
Bats Token: Bats tokens are placed under 
hunter figures as a reminder that Dracula can 
move that hunter, to an adjacent city as the 
hunter’s next action the next time that hunter is 
able to perform an action. After moving a 
hunter, Dracula removes the bats token, placing 
it in the token pool.
Consecrated Ground and Heavenly 
Host Tokens: If the consecrated ground 
token is placed on a location that is on the trail, 
that location and any encounters on it are 
revealed. Dracula cannot enter that location. 
If the location is Dracula’s current location, he 
must move to a new location during the next 
Dracula phase. Heavenly host tokens have the 
same effect as consecrated ground tokens, but 
they are removed at dawn.
Fog Token: If a city contains a fog token, 
hunters cannot perform search actions while 
on that city. Additionally, hunters cannot move 
or be moved in a way that would cause them to 
enter, leave, or pass through a city that contains 
a fog token. Dracula may choose to avoid a 
combat in a city that contains a fog token. At the 
end of each dusk, one fog token is removed from each city on 
the board that has at least one fog token.
Reveal this location card. Advance the 
influence track by 3. Then, clear this hideout 
and the hideouts on the fourth, fifth, and 
sixth spaces of the trail.
The hunter fights this vampire.
Other hunters on this location 
may become delayed to 
participate in this fight.
neW vaMpiRe
Reveal this location card. Advance the 
influence track by 4. Then, clear this hideout 
and the hideouts on the fourth, fifth, and 
sixth spaces of the trail.
The hunter fights this vampire.
Each time you resolve “Fangs” 
during an ambush, advance the 
influence track by 1.
Reckless vaMpiRe
Vampire 
Encounter Cards 
with Health Values
Bats Token
Heavenly 
Host
Consecrated 
Ground
Fog Token
What Now?
Now that players have read this Learn to Play booklet, they 
know all the rules necessary to play their first game of Fury 
of Dracula. Players should consult the Rules Reference as 
questions arise during the game.
After playing their first game, players should read the next 
section: “Advanced Rules.” These rules expand Dracula’s 
options, making the game more dynamic for Dracula and 
more difficult for the hunter players. 
Rail Side
Road Side

Advanced Rules
A
fter players play their first game, they 
should use the following additional rules. These 
rules add depth to playing as Dracula, allowing him to 
have more locations with encounters than just the six spaces 
of the trail, providing him with access to the five power cards, 
and introducing rumor tokens which can mislead the hunters or 
increase Dracula’s influence.
Lairs
Instead of maturing a hideout, Dracula may 
convert a hideout to a lair by placing it on one 
of the three lair slots on the side of the board. 
If a hideout contains a sea location, it cannot be 
converted to a lair.
When a hideout becomes a lair, Dracula places 
an encounter card from his hand on the lair. As 
such, a lair can have multiple encounter cards on 
it. When Dracula moves during future phases, 
he can move to a lair by placing that lair on the 
first space of the trail, converting it back to a 
hideout—to do this, Dracula must be able to 
move to the location in that lair following normal 
movement restrictions. When Dracula places the 
lair on the trail, he still places another encounter card on that 
space as if he had placed a location card from the location deck.
Dracula may clear a lair at any time, and he must clear a lair if 
all encounter cards are removed from that lair.
One benefit of using lairs is that there are more locations with 
encounters that Dracula can use to ambush hunters. Also, since 
an additional encounter card is placed on the lair, this allows 
Dracula to draw more encounter cards, increasing the chances 
of drawing more vampire encounter cards.
Lair Slots
Power Cards
To represent his dark might, Dracula has five power cards that 
he can use during the Dracula phase to mislead and distract the 
hunters. Each power card contains a summary of its effect. 
Dracula uses power cards as follows:
Feed: This card allows Dracula to recover damage. 
To use “Feed,” Dracula places this card on the first 
space of the trail instead of moving; he does not 
place an encounter card on it. Then, he recovers up 
to three damage.
Dark Call: This card allows Dracula to draw more 
encounter cards. To use “Dark Call,” Dracula 
places this card on the first space of the trail instead 
of moving; he does not place an encounter card on 
it. Then, he suffers two damage and draws five 
encounter cards. There is no limit to the number of 
encounter cards that Dracula can have in his hand.
Wolf Form: This card alters the way in which Dracula can 
move. To use “Wolf Form,” Dracula places this 
card on the first space of the trail along with a 
facedown location card from his location deck. 
Then, he suffers one damage. The location card 
Dracula chooses can be up to two cities away 
from his current location by road, allowing 
Dracula to move further and pass undetected 
through an adjacent city that a hunter occupies.
Misdirect: This card allows Dracula to clear a hideout on 
the trail. To play “Misdirect,” Dracula chooses a 
hideout on the trail and clears it. Then, he places 
“Misdirect” on the space of the trail that was 
cleared. After placing “Misdirect” on the trail, 
Dracula places a card (location or power) on the 
first space of the trail as normal. Dracula cannot 
use “Misdirect” to clear a hideout that contains a 
power card, Castle Dracula, his current location, 
or a location that is associated with “Hide” (see below). 
Hide: This card has the same card 
back as the location cards and allows 
Dracula to mislead the hunters by 
pretending to move while staying in 
the same location. To use “Hide,” 
Dracula places it facedown on the 
first space of the trail and places an 
encounter card on it. Dracula cannot 
resolve the matured effect of that 
encounter card. Hide is associated 
with the previous location that Dracula occupied as long as 
that location remains on the trail. As such, if a hunter ends 
his movement on a location that is associated with “Hide,” 
Dracula can ambush a hunter using encounter cards on both 
that location and the “Hide” card. If a location associated with 
“Hide” is revealed, the “Hide” power card is also revealed.
Place this card facedown on the trail. 
If the location card to the right of this 
space is revealed, reveal this card too.
Place an encounter card on this card; 
the matured effect of that card 
cannot be resolved.
Hide
Front
Back

Rumor Tokens
Rumor tokens represent gossip, perhaps started by 
Dracula himself or from superstitious locals seeing 
someone, or something, they could not explain. 
Dracula can use rumor tokens to further advance 
the influence track or potentially distract hunters 
who are close to his trail.
Dracula begins the game with one rumor token (see “Advanced 
Game Setup” on page 2 in the Rules Reference), and he gains an 
additional rumor token each time a despair token is placed on the 
time track (see “Dawn and Dusk” on page 10).
After Dracula places an encounter card during the Dracula 
phase, Dracula can place one rumor token on one of the 
hideouts on the first three spaces of the trail. If Dracula matures 
a vampire encounter from a hideout that contains a rumor 
token, he advances the influence track by an additional three 
spaces (see “Maturing” on page 11).
A rumor token remains as part of a hideout or a lair until there 
are no encounter cards on that location card or the location 
card on that hideout or lair is returned to Dracula’s location 
deck. When a rumor token is removed from a location or 
hideout, it is returned to the token pool.
Fury of Dracula © Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2015. Fury 
of Dracula, the Fury of Dracula logo, GW, Games Workshop, and all 
associated logos, illustrations, images, names, creatures, races, vehicles, 
locations, weapons, characters, and the distinctive likeness thereof, are 
either ® or TM, and/or © Games Workshop Limited, variably registered 
around the world, and used under license. This edition published under 
license to Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Supply is a 
trademark of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games and the 
FFG logo are registered trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All 
rights reserved to their respective owners. No part of this product may be 
reproduced without specific permission. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 
1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-
1905. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. 
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Rumor 
Credits
Original Game Design: Stephen Hand
Third Edition Development: Frank Brooks
Second Edition Development: Kevin Wilson
Producer: Derrick Fuchs
Technical Writing: Adam Baker
Technical Editing: Jonathan H. Keith
Proofreading: Allan Kennedy and Christopher Meyer
Graphic Design: Chris Beck and Sam Shimota
Graphic Design Manager: Brian Schomburg
Creative Writing: Daniel Lovat Clark
Cover Art: Sebastian Ciaffaglione and Anders Finer
Interior Art: Arden Beckwith, Joshua Cairós, JB Casacop, 
Sebastian Ciaffaglione, Nick Deligaris, Martin de Diego Sádaba, 
Dleoblack, Sam Lamont, Antonio De Luca, Anders Finer, 
Michele Frigo, Nicholas Gregory, Rafał Hrynkiewicz, 
Lukasz Jaskolski, Romana Kendelic, Adam Lane, 
Antonio José Manzanedo, Christine Mitzuk, Smirtouille, 
Beth Sobel, Alex Stone, Crystal Sully, Andreia Ugrai, 
and Brian Valenzuela 
Art Direction: Taylor Ingvarsson
Managing Art Director: Andy Christensen
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
FFG Licensing Specialist: Amanda Greenhart
Production Management: Megan Duehn and Simone Elliott
Production Coordination: John Britton, Jason Glawe, 
and Johanna Whiting
Board Game Manager: Steven Kimball
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Elisha Arata, Samuel Bailey, Mike Beers, 
Nick Beers, Nayt Brookes, Kara Centell-Dunk, Ryan Christensen, 
Robert Crandall, Nick Cyr, Alex Davy, Kyle Dekker, 
Andrea Dell’Agnese & Julia Faeta, Tim Dolgos, Lindsey Ferrante, 
Mike Ferrante, David Fortner, Jason Glawe, Rodney Harris, 
Tim Huckelbery, Stewart Hunt, Justin Kemppainen, 
Mark Krueger, Lukas Litzsinger, Philip McNeill, Todd Michlitsch, 
Darren Nakamura, Rebecca Olene, Jack Peterson, Zoë Robinson, 
Mark Slabinski, Carlos St. Germain, Trevor St. Germain, 
Damon Stone, Chris Tannhauser, Zach Tewalthomas, Darron Tong, 
Darrell Ulm, Emily Ulm, Sean Vayda, Stuart Wilson, and 
Paul Winchester
As always, thanks to everyone at
Games Workshop