In Gaia Project, each 
player controls one 
of 14 factions striving 
to peacefully colonize 
the Terra Mystica 
galaxy. Each faction has 
different environmental 
needs to survive on a planet. 
These needs have led the factions 
to master terraforming, enabling 
them to make different planet types habitable 
for themselves.
During the game, you will colonize new planets, 
upgrade mines into 
better structures, 
and unite planets to 
form federations. The 
choice is yours: will 
you expand near other 
factions, which might give 
you power and trade partners, 
or will you look for solitude, 
where you can expand more freely?
In addition, you will need to research and 
discover new technologies to improve your skills. 
In the end, only the best developed faction will win.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Components 
	
Game Setup 
	
Goal and Gameplay 
	
The Power Cycle 
	
The 6 Rounds of Play 
	I.	
Income	
	II.	 Gaia	
	III.	Actions	
		
1)	 Build a Mine	
		
2)	 Start a Gaia Project	
		
3)	 Upgrade Existing Structure	
		
4)	 Form a Federation	
		
5)	 Research Progress	
	 	
6)	 Power and Q.I.C. Actions	
	 	
7)	 Special Actions	
	 	
8)	 Pass	
	 	
9)	 Free Actions	
	 	
10)	Passive Action: Charging Power	
	 IV.	 Clean-Up	
Game End and Scoring 
Advanced Setup: Beyond the First Game 
Appendices 
	 I.	
Factions	
	 II.	 Research Board / III. Action Spaces	
22/23
	 IV.	 Round Boosters / V. Round Scoring Tiles	
23/24
	 VI.	 Tech Tiles	

COMPONENTS
10 Space Sector Tiles 
Numbered 01 to 10. Tiles 05, 
06, and 07 are double-sided.
1 Research Board
7 Double-Sided Faction Boards 
Each side shows a different faction.
1 Scoring Board
6 Final Scoring Tiles
19 Federation Tokens
6 Space Stations
10 Round Boosters
36 Standard Tech Tiles
4 each:
15 Advanced Tech Tiles
20 Action Tokens
15 Record Tokens
12 Gaia Planet Tokens
1 Lost Planet Token
10 Round Scoring Tiles 
1 each:
1 each:
3 each:
2 each:

Structures (in each player color) 
Yellow, orange, brown, white, gray, blue, red
8 Mines
4 Trading 
Stations
3 Research 
Labs
2 Academies
1 Planetary 
Institute
25 Satellites
3 Gaiaformers
7 Player 
Tokens
CREDITS
Gaia Project is a game designed by Helge Ostertag and Jens Drögemüller.
Dennis Lohausen is responsible for the illustrations and graphic design. The 
rulebook was written by Bastian Winkelhaus and Frank Heeren, who is also 
responsible for editing and producing this game.
Many thanks to Inga Keutmann for the English translation, Christine Conrad 
for the rules and card layout, Bastian Winkelhaus for many shared playtests, 
Johannes Grimm for proofreading the rulebook, and Alexandar Ortloff, Andrea 
Dell’Agnese, and Julia Faeta for editing the English rules. We want to thank 
Morten Monrad Pedersen and his Automa Team for the Automa solo game mode, 
Panda Games for the support regarding the realization of the game and Barry for 
providing the test forum. The Automa team wishes to thank James Ataei-Kachuei 
for proofreading the solo rules. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
© 2017 Feuerland Verlagsgesellschaft mbH Wilhelm-Reuter-Str. 37 65817 Eppstein-Bremthal. 
Fantasy Flight Supply is a TM of Fantasy Flight Games. Z-Man Games, and the Z-Man logo 
are TM of Z-Man Games. Z-Man Games, 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 
55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. 
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 13 YEARS OF 
AGE OR YOUNGER.
17 Decision Cards
4 Player Aids
1 Terraforming 
Reference Card
1 Turn Order Card 
Automa Cards:
7 Faction Cards
TIEBREAKER 3a:
Transdim Planet
TerranS
After colonizing 
a new planet type, 
the Automa gains an 
additional 2 VP.
GeodenS
If the Automa 
cannot upgrade, 
it colonizes
with range 3.
After upgrading 
to a trading station, 
the Automa gains 
an additional 3 VP.
Hadsch 
HallaS
When taking a power/Q.I.C. action 
(except as part of a faction action), 
the Automa resolves the effect twice 
using the same support card.
Xenos
Use the same support card for 
both power/Q.I.C. actions.
ItarS
TIEBREAKER 3a:
Shortest distance to
one of your planets.
Taklons
When upgrading, the Automa 
can downgrade from a research 
lab to a trading station. This has 
priority over normal upgrades 
to trading stations.
After upgrading to a 
research lab, the Automa 
advances in a random 
Firaks
1 First Player 
Marker
14 Credit 
7 Ore 
7 Knowledge 
30 Q.I.C. 
(Quantum 
Intelligence Cubes)
50 Power 
Tokens
1 Brainstone
Other Player Pieces (in each player color) 
Yellow, orange, brown, white, gray, blue, red
1 Automa Player Aid
1 Automa Rulebook

For your first game, play with the following game board setup and factions. For future games, 
also use the Advanced Setup on page 18, which features a variable game board and all factions.
For a solo game, also see the Automa rulebook. With two or more 
players, return the Automa cards and Automa player aid to the box.
Determine a first player using the method of your choice. That player takes the first player marker.
 Game Board 
Setup for 3 and 4 players
Assemble the game board by taking all 10 sector tiles and 
placing them as shown below. Make sure that sector tiles 05, 06, 
and 07 are solid-side up.
Setup for 1 and 2 players
Assemble the game board by taking sector tiles 01 to 07 and 
placing them as shown below. Make sure that sector tiles 05, 06, 
and 07 are outlined-side up. Return the unused sector tiles to the 
box.
 Research Board and Federation Tokens 
Place the research board next to the game board.
Take the nine standard tech tiles with green marks on 
the back and randomly place each of them faceup on a 
different tech space of the research board. Then stack the 
remaining standard tech tiles on the placed tiles of the 
same type; this will give you nine piles of four identical tech tiles.
Randomly place one advanced tech tile faceup on each space 
between level 4 and 5 of the six research areas. Return the 
unused advanced tech tiles to the box.
Set aside the federation token shown to the 
right; this is the Gleens faction’s federation 
token. Randomly take one federation token 
from those remaining and place it on level 5 
of the “Terraforming” research area. 
Sort and stack the remaining federation 
tokens by type and place these six piles 
next to the game board with their green 
sides faceup. 
Exception: The 12 VP federation tokens 
have two gray sides.
GAME SETUP
Use the small groups of blue stars on sector tiles 01 to 04 to help you place them correctly.
Solid side
Outlined side
(Double-sided)

 Scoring Board 
Place the scoring board next to the game board.
Randomly place one round scoring tile faceup on each 
numbered tile space of the scoring board. Return the unused 
round scoring tiles to the box.
Randomly place one final scoring tile faceup on each tile space 
to the right of the green ranking tracks. Return the unused final 
scoring tiles to the box. 
 Round Boosters and General Supply 
Randomly select as many round boosters as there are players 
in the game plus three (e.g., seven round boosters in a 4-player 
game) and place them next to the game board. Return the unused 
round boosters to the box.
Place all action tokens, Gaia Planet tokens, the Lost Planet 
token, power tokens, Q.I.C., and record tokens near the game 
board as a general supply.
7 round boosters for a 4–player game.
1 Federation Token 
(chosen randomly)
6 Advanced Tech 
Tiles (chosen and 
placed randomly)
9 x 4 Standard Tech 
Tiles (placed randomly)
Terraforming
Navigation
Artificial Intelligence
Gaia Project
Economy
Science
6 Round Scoring Tiles
2 Final Scoring Tiles

 Choosing a Faction 
For your first game, choose one of the following factions:
1 player: Hadsch Hallas (Human), Taklons (Automa)
2 players: Hadsch Hallas, Xenos
3 players: Terrans, Taklons, Geodens
4 players: Terrans, Hadsch Hallas, Xenos, Taklons
For your first game, choose one of the following factions:
1 player: Hadsch Hallas (Human), Taklons (Automa)
2 players: Hadsch Hallas, Xenos
3 players: Terrans, Taklons, Geodens
4 players: Terrans, Hadsch Hallas, Xenos, Taklons
The first player chooses one of the above factions and takes the 
matching faction board. Continuing in clockwise order, each 
other player chooses one of the remaining factions. Place your 
faction board in front of you with the chosen faction faceup. 
The factions’ abilities are explained in detail on page 20.
Take all structures and Gaiaformers of your color. Place the 
structures on their corresponding spaces of your faction board. 
Place your three Gaiaformers near your faction board.
Take one ore, one knowledge, and two credit markers and 
place them on the starting positions of your resource track. 
Return the unused ore, knowledge, and credit markers to the box.
If your faction board shows at least one Q.I.C. below 
your name, take that many Q.I.C. from the supply 
and place them on your faction board.
For each area of the power cycle on your faction board, take 
from the supply the number of power tokens shown and place 
them in that area.
Take six player tokens of your color and place one of them on 
level 0 of each research area on the research board.
If your faction board shows level 1 of a research area, advance 
your token one level in the corresponding area. If that level 
shows a resource marked by a star and a white outline, gain that 
resource immediately as a one-time bonus:
To gain ore, move the ore token that many spaces to the 
right on your resource track.
To gain a Q.I.C., take a Q.I.C. token from the supply and 
place it on your faction board.
To gain a Gaiaformer, take one of your set-aside 
Gaiaformers and place it on your faction board.
Note: The level 1 bonuses of the 
“Economy” and “Science” research 
areas are income bonuses and are 
not gained during setup.
Take the seventh player token of your 
color and place it on space 10 (10 
VP) of the VP track as a VP marker. 
Take all satellites of your color; place one on 
each “0” space on the scoring board and the 
rest near your faction board.
Take one player aid and place it faceup near your faction board.
If you are playing the Taklons, take the brainstone and 
place it in area I of your power cycle.
If you are playing the Gleens, take the Gleens’ federation token 
and place it near your faction board.
If you are playing the Ivits, take the six space stations 
and place them near your faction board.
The Terrans start with 3 knowledge, 4 ore, and 15 credits.
The Terrans place 4 power tokens in 
area I and 4 power tokens in area II.
The Taklons start on level 0 in each research area.
The Terrans’ faction board shows level 1 
of the “Gaia Project” research area; they 
advance 1 level and gain 1 Gaiaformer.
terranS
The Terrans’ structures and Gaiaformers.

 Placing Your First Structures 
For your first game, place your mines as shown below. Always 
take your mines from left to right on your faction board.
By placing your first structures, you colonize your first planets, 
and you reveal spaces on your faction board. This is important 
for your income, which is explained on page 10.
For your first game, place your mines as shown below. Always 
take your mines from left to right on your faction board.
By placing your first structures, you colonize your first planets, 
and you reveal spaces on your faction board. This is important 
for your income, which is explained on page 10.
 Choosing Your First Round Booster 
Starting with the last player and continuing in counterclockwise 
order, choose an available round booster and place it faceup in 
front of you. Unchosen round boosters will remain next to the 
board and be available for the first round.
 Neutral Player (1–2 Players) 
When playing with 1 or 2 players, a neutral player is added to 
affect final scoring. Take two satellites of an unused color and 
place one on each ranking track next to the final scoring tiles; 
the number on each final scoring tile determines the satellite’s 
position on that ranking track. During final scoring, these 
satellites count as a neutral player at the appropriate rank. Return 
all unused satellites to the box.
 Return Player Components 
Return all unused faction boards, structures, Gaiaformers, 
player tokens, satellites, ore markers, knowledge markers, credit 
markers, player aids, the brainstone, the Gleens’ federation 
token, and space stations to the box.
Return the turn order card to the box; it is used only when 
playing with variable turn order. Variable turn order is an 
advanced rule that is explained on page 19.
In a 2-player game, a neutral satellite 
is placed on space 8 of the ranking 
track next to this tile.
1 player
2 players
4 players
3 players

At the end of the game, the player with the most VP wins. 
You will gain VP during the game as well as at the end of 
the game. Track your VP using your marker on the VP track. The 
various ways to gain VP are detailed below.
Six round scoring tiles are placed on the scoring board during 
setup, one for each round. Each round, you gain VP when you 
take the action shown on the tile. 
The round scoring tiles are explained in Appendix V on page 24. 
The numbers in the upper part of a tile (to the left and right 
of the green circle) are needed only for the Automa game and are 
explained in the Automa rulebook.
Two final scoring tiles are placed on the scoring board during 
setup. At the end of the game, players gain VP depending on how 
well players fulfilled those conditions. 
Next to the final scoring tiles are two ranking tracks; during the 
game, use the satellites on them to track players’ progress on 
the scoring conditions of the final scoring tiles. At the end of the 
game, the highest ranked player gains the most VP, and other 
players gain fewer VP according to their ranking.
The final scoring tiles are explained on page 18.
By uniting planets to form federations during the game, 
you gain federation tokens which can award you VP and 
additional resources.
At the end of the game, for each level 3, 4, and 5 you have 
reached or passed in different research areas of the research 
board, you gain 4 VP (e.g., reaching level 5 in “Navigation” 
would award you 4 + 4 + 4 = 12 VP). Each level you reach on the 
research board also grants you different rewards during the game
Both types of tech tiles (standard and advanced) can award you 
VP as well as allow you to advance in a research area.
GOAL AND GAMEPLAY
These icons on the research board serve as a 
reminder of the points gained for research 
areas at the end of the game.
When a player gains this federation token, that 
player immediately gains 6 VP and 2 knowledge.
This standard tech tile gains you 3 VP 
each time you colonize a Gaia Planet.
This final scoring tile rewards colonizing 
as many Gaia Planets as possible. Each 
time a player colonizes a Gaia Planet, 
move her satellite one space higher on 
the track.
Each time you advance in any research 
area during this tile’s round, gain 2 VP.

During the game, power will cycle through three numbered, 
connected power areas on your faction board. Charging power 
will allow you to move power tokens toward area III, and 
spending power in area III will move it to area I.
To the left of the three power areas on your faction board is the 
green Gaia area, which interacts with your power cycle and is 
explained on page 10.
Charging Power
You will need to charge power before you can 
spend it. Effects that allow you to charge power are 
represented by an icon like the one to the right.
For each power you need to charge, do the 
following:
1. If there is at least one power token in area I, move a power 
token from area I to area II.
2. If area I is empty, move a power token from area II to area III.
3. If areas I and II are empty, you cannot charge the power.
Spending Power
Some actions require you to spend power. You can spend only 
power tokens that are in area III. To spend power, move it from 
area III to area I.
Gaining and Discarding Power
The total number of power tokens in your power cycle can 
change over the course of the game as effects allow you to gain 
or discard power.
To gain power, take power tokens from the 
supply and place them in area I. Effects that 
allow you to gain power are represented by 
icons like the one to the right.
To discard power, take the power token from your faction board 
and return it to the supply. Unless specified, you can discard 
power tokens from any combination of areas except the Gaia area.
“Charge 4 
Power” Icon
THE POWER CYCLE
An effect allows you to charge 4 power. To do so, 
you first move a power token from area I to area II.
Since area I is now empty, you move 2 power tokens 
from area II to area III. Now areas I and II are 
both empty, so you cannot charge any more power.
The Hadsch Hallas’ power cycle after setup.
“Gain 1 Power” 
Icon
An action requires you to spend 2 power, so you 
move 2 power tokens from area III to area I.
An effect allows you to gain 1 power. To do so, you take 
1 power token from the supply and place it in area I.
Then you discard 2 power for another effect by 
taking 2 power tokens from among your power 
areas and returning them to the supply.

The game will last a total of six rounds. During each round, the 
players will progress through four phases in the following order:
	
Phase I:	
Income
	
Phase II:	
Gaia
	
Phase III:	 Actions
	
Phase IV:	 Clean-Up
 Phase I: Income 
At the beginning of each round (including the first), 
income allows each player to gain resources. Income 
is represented by the icon to the right.
Your faction board, your round booster, your tech tiles, and your 
current level in each research area on the research board can all 
allow you to gain income.
Track your ore, knowledge, and credits using the corresponding 
tokens on the resource track of your faction board (as you gain 
or lose a resource, move the token to the number you have 
remaining). The track ends at 15, so you cannot have more than 
15 ore, 15 knowledge, and 30 credits (15 per token).
You choose the order in which you charge and gain power. 
When you gain income from a source (a single income icon), you 
must take it all at once before taking the income from another 
source. 
 Phase II: Gaia 
If you have power tokens in the Gaia area on your 
faction board, move them to area I of your power 
cycle (in the direction of the arrow). 
Exception: The Terrans move the power tokens directly to 
area II instead of area I of the power cycle (as shown by the 
arrow on their faction board).
If you have a Gaiaformer on a Transdim Planet, place a Gaia 
Planet token on that planet. From now on, that planet counts 
as a Gaia Planet. The Gaiaformer remains on the Gaia Planet 
until you build a mine on that planet. Further details about Gaia 
projects are found on page 12.
 Phase III: Actions 
Starting with the first player and continuing in clockwise order, 
players take turns taking a single action. This continues until all 
players have taken the “Pass” action. As soon as a player has 
passed, that player does not take any more turns for the rest of the 
phase. The phase ends when all players have passed.
Except for passing, most other 
actions can be taken multiple times 
during the same phase (but only one 
action per player turn). You will 
choose the “Pass” action exactly 
once during the round, thereby 
ending your participation in the 
round.
During your turn, you can take 
free actions immediately before or 
after your action. Free actions are 
explained on page 16.
During other players’ turns, you can 
charge power when your opponents 
take actions that trigger your 
passive action: charge power. This is 
explained on page 17.
THE 6 ROUNDS OF PLAY
You can choose to charge 4 power 
first and then place a new power 
token in area I, or vice versa.
The player aid card 
shows the actions 
you can take.
During the Gaia phase, 
a purple Transdim Planet 
with a Gaiaformer transforms 
into a green Gaia Planet.
1 ore
Gain 2 power
2 knowledge
3 ore
1 ore
Charge 1 power
The Hadsch Hallas gain 
1 ore and 1 knowledge.

 1) Build a Mine 
You can build a mine on a planet, thereby colonizing that planet.
To build a mine, you must spend two credits and 
one ore (this cost is shown to the left of the mines 
on your faction board). You must have at least one 
mine on your faction board in order to build a mine.
You can build a mine only on a planet that meets these conditions:
 It is empty (i.e., has no structures on it).
 It is accessible from one of your planets.
 It is habitable to your faction. If the planet is not habitable, 
you must pay any costs required to make it habitable.
If these conditions are met and you have paid all necessary costs, 
take the leftmost mine structure from your faction board and 
place it on the planet.
You must complete this action in its entirety, and you can take 
it only if you pay all of the necessary costs immediately. You 
cannot take only part of the action, like terraforming the planet 
partially, or terraforming the planet but not building a mine.
There are special rules for building a mine on a Gaia Planet with 
a Gaiaformer on it. These are explained at the end of this section.
Accessibility:
A planet’s accessibility is determined by your progress in the 
“Navigation” research area. When your token is on level 0 or 1, 
your basic range is one. This means that you can build a mine 
only on a planet that is one space away from (directly adjacent 
to) a planet you have 
colonized. At levels 2 
and 3, your basic range is 
two, at level 4 your basic 
range is three, and at 
level 5 your basic range 
is four.
To determine the needed range, choose the shortest path from one 
of your planets to the intended planet. The path can cross planets, 
whether or not they are colonized.
Range always defines your maximum range; you can colonize 
planets that are closer than your maximum range.
Additionally, when 
choosing a planet to 
build a mine on, you can 
spend any number of 
Q.I.C. to increase your 
range by two spaces for 
each Q.I.C. spent.
Habitability:
Gaia Project includes ten different planet types. Only one type—
the respective type of each faction’s home planet—is habitable to 
that faction. The color of your faction board corresponds to the 
color and type of your home planet.
To build a mine on a planet other than your home planet type, 
you must follow these rules:
	Transdim Planets cannot be built on. 
However, you can transform a Transdim 
Planet into a Gaia Planet using a Gaia 
Project. Starting a Gaia Project is explained 
on page 12.
	Gaia Planets can be made habitable by 
paying one Q.I.C. Your home planet type has 
no impact on this cost.
After transforming a Transdim planet into a Gaia planet, the 
Gaiaformer will remain on that planet. The following rules apply 
to Gaia Planets with a Gaiaformer on them:
 Only the faction 
that owns the 
Gaiaformer can 
colonize that 
planet.
 The planet is considered accessible to that faction.
 You do not need to pay the Q.I.C. cost to make the planet 
habitable.
 After building a mine on the planet, return the Gaiaformer to 
your faction board.
A reminder of this use for 
Q.I.C. is shown on your 
The cost to make a Gaia Planet habitable 
is shown on your faction board.
Having reached level 
2 of the “Navigation” 
research area, the 
Ivits have a basic 
range of 2.
The Ivits (red)
are at level 2 in 
“Navigation” and they 
spend 1 Q.I.C., giving 
them a range of 4: just 
enough to reach the 
brown planet.
Only the Itars can 
build a mine on this 
Gaia Planet.
The Terrans build a mine 
on a Gaia Planet with one 
of their Gaiaformers on it. 
They pay 1 ore and 2 credits 
for the structure and return 
the Gaiaformer to their 
terranS

	The seven colored planet types must first be terraformed. 
Depending on how similar the habitat conditions of the 
planet are to your home planet, this process can take one, 
two, or three terraforming steps. Your faction board shows 
the required number of terraforming steps to make each 
planet type habitable to your faction.
You must spend a specific amount of ore for each terraforming 
step. The ore cost is determined by your progress in the 
“Terraforming” research area. When your token is on levels 0 or 
1, each terraforming step costs you three ore. At level 2 the cost 
is two ore per step, and at levels 3 and beyond the cost is one ore 
per step.
Some power actions and special actions provide free 
terraforming steps. When taking these actions, do not pay the 
cost of those terraforming steps. These actions are explained on 
pages 15 and 16. If those steps are not enough to make a planet 
habitable, you can spend ore to perform additional steps.
	The Lost Planet is the last planet type, and is only 
discovered by reaching level 5 of the “Navigation” research 
area. The Lost Planet is explained on page 22.
 2) Start a Gaia Project 
As described in the previous action, you cannot build directly 
on Transdim Planets: you must first transform them into 
Gaia Planets using a Gaia project. Gaia projects are completed 
during the Gaia phase of the following round, after which you 
will be able to build a mine on that Planet.
To start a Gaia project you must:
 Have an available Gaiaformer.
 Have access to a Transdim Planet without a Gaiaformer on it.
 Spend the necessary power.
Once you have done so, take one of your available Gaiaformers 
and place it on the Transdim Planet.
Availability:
A Gaiaformer that is on one of the three 
spaces of your faction board is available 
to you. You gain your first Gaiaformer 
when you reach level 1 in the “Gaia Project” research area; take 
one of the Gaiaformers you set aside during setup and place it 
on one of the spaces on your faction board. You gain a second 
Gaiaformer when you reach level 3, and a third when you reach 
level 4.
A Gaiaformer will stay on the transformed planet after the Gaia 
project finishes. You cannot use Gaiaformer to start a new Gaia 
Project until you build a mine on its planet to return it to your 
Accessibility:
The accessibility of a Transdim Planet follows the same rules 
as the “Build a Mine” action. A planet with a Gaiaformer does 
not count as colonized by the faction owning that Gaiaformer; 
therefore, that planet cannot be used as a “starting point” to 
access another planet (Transdim or otherwise).
Cost:
To start a Gaia project, you must move a total amount of 
power from areas I, II, or III to your Gaia area; the amount is 
determined by your progress in the “Gaia Project” research area. 
When your token is at level 1 or 2, the cost is six power per 
Gaia Project. At level 3, the cost is four power, and at level 4 or 
5, this cost is three power. The cost is the same for all of your 
Gaiaformers, regardless of when you gained them.
Since Gaia Projects are completed in the following round, 
any Gaia projects you begin in the final round will never be 
completed.
The Geodens take a special action 
that provides 1 free terraforming 
step, however they need to take 
2 terraforming steps to make the 
brown planet habitable. Since they 
are at level 3 in “Terraforming,” 
the Geodens pay 1 ore to take the 
second step.
The Terrans have gained 2 Gaiaformers. To 
start a Gaia Project, they must move 4 total 
power tokens from areas I, II, or III to their 
Gaia area.
The Geodens are at level 3 in “Terraforming,” 
so they must pay only 1 ore for each 
terraforming step.
The Terrans need 2 
terraforming steps to 
make a black or orange 
planet habitable.
3 terraforming 
steps
2 terraforming 
steps
1 terraforming 
step

 3) Upgrade Existing Structures 
You can upgrade your structures (including your starting mines)
one step at a time to gain new resources and other advantages. 
Only mines can be placed directly on empty planets; all other 
structures are upgrades that replace another structure on the game 
board. The connections between different types of structures on 
your faction board are a reminder of how different structures can 
be upgraded.
Every upgrade follows these rules:
 When you upgrade a structure, remove the original structure 
from the board and place it in the appropriate row of your 
faction board from right to left.
 Like mines, trading stations and research labs are taken from 
left to right from your faction board.
 To upgrade a structure, you must spend ore and credits. The 
cost to upgrade to a structure is shown on the left side of the 
corresponding structure row on your faction board.
You can do one of the following four upgrades each time you 
take this action:
Mine ➜ Trading Station
Upgrading a mine into a trading station costs 
six credits and two ore. If there is at least one 
opponent’s structure in the neighboring area of 
your mine, this cost is reduced to three credits and two ore. The 
neighboring area of a mine consists of all spaces within a range 
of two spaces.
Trading Station ➜ Planetary Institute
Upgrading a trading station into a planetary institute 
costs six credits and four ore. As soon as you upgrade 
to your planetary institute, your faction gains a special 
ability or action space that is unique to your faction. The various 
planetary institutes are explained in appendix I on page 20.
Trading Station ➜ Research Lab
Upgrading a trading station into a research lab costs 
five credits and three ore. When you upgrade to a 
research lab, you immediately gain one tech tile (see right 
column).
Research Lab ➜ Academy
Upgrading a research lab into an academy costs 
six credits and six ore. As you upgrade, decide which 
of the academies on your faction board to upgrade 
to. One academy grants you an income of two knowledge each 
round, and the other academy gives you an action to gain one 
Q.I.C. When you upgrade to an academy, you immediately gain 
one tech tile (see right column). 
Gaining a Tech Tile
Tech tiles grant you various benefits, such as immediate 
resources or income. Keep your tech tiles near your faction 
board. Whenever you gain a tech tile, you may advance in a 
research area on the research board. Advancing in a research area 
is explained on page 15. The following rules apply to gaining a 
tech tile:
 You can take any standard tech tile, except one you already 
own. No faction can own more than one of the same tech 
tile, even if it is covered by an advanced tech tile.
 If you take one of the six 
tech tiles directly below 
a research area, you 
can advance only in the 
research area above it. If 
you cannot advance any 
further in that research 
area, you do not advance.
 If you take one of the 
three tech tiles in the 
lower row, you can 
advance in the research 
area of your choice.
 Instead of taking a standard tech tile, you can take an 
advanced tech tile. When you take an advanced tech tile, you 
may advance in any research area. To take an advanced tech 
tile, you must meet these three conditions:
	
 Your player token must be on level 4 or 5 of the research 
area from which you wish to take the advanced tech tile.
 	  You must own at least one federation token with its green 
side faceup. To take the advanced tech tile, flip one of your 
federation tokens to its gray side. Federations are explained on 
page 14.
 	  You must have at least one uncovered standard tech tile. When 
you gain an advanced tech tile, place it faceup covering one 
of your standard tech tiles. A covered tech tile has no effect. 
A standard tech tile can “hold” exactly one advanced tech 
tile. You cannot replace an advanced tech tile with another 
advanced tech tile. 
Advanced tech tiles are not refilled. Only six advanced tech tiles 
are available each game.
The different tech tiles are explained in appendix VI on page 24.
The Ivits gain a 
standard tech tile 
and advance in 
the research area 
above it.
The Ivits can gain the 
advanced tech tile in 
the“Navigation” (center) or 
“Artificial Intelligence” (right) 
research area. They flip a 
federation token to its gray side 
and place the advanced tech 
covering their standard tech.

 4) Form a Federation 
With this action you can form a federation comprising several of 
your colonized planets. Forming a federation allows you to gain 
a federation token of your choice from the supply. You can form 
any number of federation during the game as long as you meet 
their requirements.
Power Value:
You can form a federation only with planets you have colonized. 
The structures on those planets must have a total power value of 
at least seven. Structures have the following power values:
The power value of each structure is also shown under the 
structure’s cost on your faction board.
Connecting Planets:
To form a federation, you must connect the necessary planets. 
Planets you have colonized that are directly adjacent to each 
other are connected. To connect planets that are not adjacent, you 
must immediately build satellites.
To build a satellite, discard one power. Then take one of the 
satellites near your faction board and place it in a space adjacent 
to either one of your colonized planets or one of your satellites. 
Satellites cannot be placed on planets. A space can hold up to one 
satellite of each player color. You can build as many satellites as 
you need to connect the necessary planets. You must connect all 
of the necessary planets during a single action.
When you form a federation, take a record token 
from the supply and place it on any planet in that 
federation as a reminder of the federation. If you 
built any satellites when forming the federation, 
you do not need to place a record token.
Gaining Federation Tokens:
When you form a federation, gain one federation token of your 
choice from the supply, placing it in front of you with its green 
side faceup. When you gain a federation token, you immediately 
gain everything shown on the token. This will usually include VP 
and resources.
Note: There is one type of federation token that awards 12 VP 
and nothing else. These tokens are gray on both sides, and are 
placed with either side faceup when you gain them..
You can later flip tokens from their green side to their gray side 
to gain an advanced tech tile or advance to the highest level 
(level 5) of a research area.
Additional Rules:
 You choose the planets to form a federation, as long as your 
structures have a total power value of at least seven. In other 
words, you can choose planets that are farther away, as long 
as those planets are needed to have a total power value of at 
least seven.
 You cannot form a federation by connecting more planets 
and satellites than are needed to form it. In other words, if 
the federation would be valid with at least one fewer planet 
and one fewer satellite, you must change the federation.
 Each planet and satellite can be part of only one federation. 
When colonizing planets directly adjacent to one of your 
federations, these new planets enlarge the existing federation 
without any advantage for you. Connecting two federations 
by colonizing a connecting planet has no effect.
Summary:
 The connected structures must have a total power value of at 
least seven. 
 Connect structures with as few satellites as possible. Build 
satellites by discarding power.
 Planets and satellites of the newly formed federation cannot 
be directly adjacent to planets or satellites from any of your 
existing federations.
Mines have a power value of 1.
Trading stations and research labs have 
a power value of 2.
Planetary institutes and academies have 
a power value of 3.
When you gain this federation token, you gain 
6 VP and 2 knowledge. Later, you will be able 
to flip it over to gain an advanced tech tile or 
advance to level 5 of a research area.

 5) Research Progress 
Spend four knowledge to advance one level in a research area 
of your choice.
If that level shows a resource marked by a star and a white 
outline, gain that resource immediately as a one-time bonus. 
Any other effect of that level is active immediately, and remains 
active as long as you are at that level. The different research 
areas and levels are explained in appendix II on page 22.
In order to advance to level 5 of a research area, in addition to 
any other costs, you must flip one of your federation tokens from 
its green side to its gray side (this is the same cost as for taking 
an advanced tech tile).
Only one player can advance to level 5 of each research area.
Each time your research token advances from level 2 to level 3 
in any research area, you charge three power (this also applies if 
you advanced by taking a tech tile).
At the end of the game, you will gain 4 VP for each level 3, 4, 
and 5 you have reached or passed on the research board.
 6) Power and Q.I.C. Actions 
The lower part of the research board shows octagonal purple 
and green action spaces. To take a power action (purple spaces), 
spend the indicated amount of power. To take a Q.I.C. action 
(green spaces), spend the indicated number of Q.I.C.
After paying the action’s cost, resolve the effect shown. The 
effects of action spaces are explained in appendix on page 23.
Each power and Q.I.C. action can be taken only once 
per round. After you take a power or Q.I.C. action, place 
an action token onto the action space to show that the 
action cannot be taken again during that round.
The icon between level 2 and level 3 of a 
research area is a reminder to charge 3 
power when you advance past it.
The red- and blue-
circled satellites show 
two possibilities to form 
a federation with the 
planetary institute (power 
value 3) and two trading 
stations (power value 2).
The red possibility includes a mine, which increases the total 
power value to 8; since at least two satellites are needed in 
both cases, the red possibility is allowed.
The mine (power value 1) and the connecting blue-circled 
satellite are not needed to reach a power value of 7. The red-
circled satellite is sufficient to achieve this.
Forming this 
federation is not 
allowed. 
This federation is allowed, but it is relatively inefficient, since 
the total power value of the structures is 11. The Xenos may 
want to form two separate federations, since each group of 3 
connected structures has nearly enough power value to form 
a federation on its own.
Spend 4 power 
to gain 2 ore.
The Xenos pay 4 knowledge to advance 
from level 0 to level 1 in the “Terraforming” 
research area. They immediately gain the one-
time bonus of 2 ore.

 7) Special Actions 
Special action spaces are octagonal orange spaces that can be 
used for an immediate effect. Unlike power and Q.I.C. actions, 
special actions have no cost and are available only to the player 
that owns the component they appear on. Special action spaces 
appear on faction boards, tech tiles, and round boosters.
Each special action can be used only once per round. After you 
take a special action, place an action token onto that action 
space to show that the action cannot be taken again during the 
current round.
A special action cannot be combined with another special, 
power, or Q.I.C. action.
The special action spaces are described in the appendices based 
on the component they appear on.
 8) Pass 
On your turn, if you cannot or do not want to take any other 
actions in the current round, you must pass. After you pass, your 
turn ends, and you do not take any more turns for the remainder 
of the round.
When you pass, take one of the three available round boosters 
(including one that another player returned during this round), 
then return the booster you started the round with. You cannot 
keep your booster (i.e., you cannot use the same booster two 
rounds in a row). In the final round, do not take a new booster 
before returning yours.
Place the new round booster 
facedown in front of you to 
show that you have already 
passed. Once all players have 
passed, the action phase of the 
current round ends.
Some round boosters have effects that trigger when you pass, 
indicated by a red icon. These effects trigger during the round 
you return that booster. Some Tech tiles also show that icon; 
those effects trigger every time you pass. This icon is explained 
on page 24.
The first time a player passes during a round, that player 
takes the first player marker.
 9) Free Actions 
In addition to your action, you can also take any number of free 
actions during your turn. You can take free actions before or 
after your action, but not during. You can take each free action as 
many times as you can afford to.
You can take free actions before you pass but not after (passing is 
an action).
You cannot take a free action if it is not your turn (e.g., if you 
already passed, during a passive action, during a different phase, 
etc.).
The free actions are:
 Discard one power token from area II of your power cycle to 
move one power token from area II to area III. You can do 
this even if you have power tokens in area I
 Spend 4 power to gain 1 Q.I.C.
 Spend 3 power to gain 1 ore.
 Spend 1 Q.I.C. to gain 1 ore.
 Spend 4 power to gain 1 knowledge.
 Spend 1 power to gain 1 credit.
 Spend 1 knowledge to gain 1 credit.
 Spend 1 ore to gain 1 credit.
 Spend 1 ore to gain 1 power (in area I).
The summary on the right side of your faction board shows all 
exchange possibilities.
The Ivits can use this special action 
once they have upgraded to a planetary 
institute.
Only the player with 
this round booster 
can take this action.
Only the player 
with this tech 
tile can take this 
action
After returning your 
round booster, you 
take another booster 
and place it facedown 
in front of you.
As a free action, you can 
discard a power token to move 
a power token from area II to 
area III.
These effects trigger when you pass.

 10) Passive Action: Charge Power 
Each time a player builds a mine or upgrades a structure, each 
other player with at least one structure in the neighboring area 
(within a range of 2 spaces) may spend VP to charge power.
To charge power for a structure, spend one fewer VP than the 
power you would charge (to charge 1/2/3/4 power you must 
spend 0/1/2/3 VP). You may choose not to spend any VP, and 
thus not charge any power.
If you own multiple structures in the neighboring area, you can 
charge power only for your structure with the highest power 
value (power value is explained on page 14). If you own multiple 
structures with the same power value, only charge power for one 
of them. 
You cannot spend fewer VP to charge less than the full amount of 
power. You must either charge all of the power or none of it, with 
two exceptions:
 If you cannot charge all of the power because it is more than 
you would need to move all of the tokens in your power cycle 
to area III, you charge only as much as you can by spending 
the corresponding number of VP.
 If you cannot spend the necessary VP because you do not 
have enough, you spend as many as you have and charge the 
corresponding amount of power.
Additional Rules:
 The player who builds or upgrades must point out which 
opponent(s) can charge power.
 In clockwise order from the player who built or upgraded, 
players decide if they want to charge power.
 An opponent that has passed can still charge power.
 You must spend VP only for power you charge this way. You 
do not have to spend VP for any other power you charge. 
 Phase IV: Clean-Up 
The Clean-Up phase prepares you for the next round. At the end 
of round 6, skip this phase and proceed to scoring.
 Remove all action tokens from all power, Q.I.C., and special 
action spaces and return them to the supply.
 Flip all round boosters faceup.
 Remove this round’s round scoring tile from the scoring board 
and return it to the box.
After this phase ends, the next round begins.
The Itars can charge only 
1 power, even though the 
planetary institute would 
allow them to charge 3. 
They spend 0 VP to charge 1 
power. 
The Ivits (red) build 
a mine, so the Xenos 
(yellow) and Itars 
(white) can spend VP to 
charge power. The Xenos 
spend 0 VP to charge 
1 power for their mine. 
The Itars’ planetary 
institute has their 
highest power value, so 
they can spend 2 VP to 
charge 3 power.
The Ivits can afford to spend 
only 1 VP. Even if their 
structure would normally allow 
them to spend 2 VP to charge 3 power, they may choose to 
spend the 1 VP they have to charge 2 power.

GAME END AND SCORING
The game ends after round 6’s action phase. It is followed by a final scoring.
 Final Scoring Tiles 
For each final scoring tile on the scoring board, players gain VP based 
on progress on the corresponding ranking track:
 The highest-ranked player gains 18 VP.
 The second-highest gains 12 VP.
 The third-highest gains 6 VP.
 The fourth-highest gains 0 VP.
In case of a tie, for each tied player, add the VP for the highest 
remaining rank. Divide the total points evenly among those 
players.
Example: Two players share the highest rank: they add the VP 
for the highest and second-highest ranks together and divide 
them evenly (18+12=30 VP; each of them gains 15 VP).
Remember to take into account the neutral satellites in a solo or 
2-player game, as explained on page 7. 
 Research Scoring 
For each level 3, 4, and 5 you have reached or passed 
on the research board, gain 4 VP (e.g., at level 5 in 
“Navigation,” you gain 4+4+4=12 VP).
 Resource Scoring 
Gain 1 VP for every 3 credits, knowledge, or ore you 
have (in any combination).
 Winner 
The player with the most VP wins the game. In case of a tie, the tied players share the victory.
Owns the most structures that are part of 
federations (the Lost Planet’s mine counts 
as a structure).
Owns the most structures (the Lost 
Planet’s mine counts as a structure).
Colonized the most different planet 
types (including Gaia Planets and the 
Lost Planet).
The six final scoring tiles are:
Colonized the most Gaia Planets.
Colonized in the most space sector tiles 
(at least 1 structure per sector, including 
the Lost Planet).
Built the most satellites. 
(The Ivits’ space stations count as satellites.)
Reminder for VP in each research area at the 
end of the game.
Reminder for VP for resources remaining at 
the end of the game.

ADVANCED SETUP: BEYOND THE FIRST GAME
When you are familiar with the basic rules, you can play with a more variable game setup.
 Choosing Your Faction 
Instead of choosing a faction from the list, the first player 
chooses any one of the seven faction boards, then chooses either 
of the factions on it and places the board on the table with that 
side faceup. Continuing in clockwise order, each other player 
does the same with the remaining faction boards. 
 Placing Your First Structures 
Instead of placing your starting mines according to the diagram, 
follow these rules: 
Starting with the first player and continuing in clockwise order, 
place one mine on any one home planet (matching your color) of 
your choice. Then, starting with the last player and continuing in 
counterclockwise order, place your second mine on a different 
home planet.
Players do not charge power for mines their opponents place 
during setup. Remember to always take the leftmost mine on 
your faction board when placing a mine.
The Xenos place their third mine after all players have placed 
their second mine. The Ivits place their planetary institute 
last, after all mines have been placed (including the Xenos’ 
third mine).
 Variable Turn Order 
Instead of using clockwise turn order for the game, you can use 
the turn order card for variable turn order:
During setup, place the turn order card next to 
the game board. Starting with the first player and 
continuing in clockwise order, each player places a 
satellite on the topmost available space on the left 
side of the turn order card. During the game, when 
you pass, move your satellite to the topmost available 
space on the other side of the turn order card (each round will 
alternate between the left side and the right side). The numbers on 
the card indicate the turn order during the rounds.
 Variable Game Board 
The 10 space sector tiles allow for many board configurations. 
Do not assemble the board as normal. Instead, after players have 
chosen their factions, the last player in turn order assembles the 
game board. Alternatively, players can agree to assemble the 
game board together.
You can use the following methods to assemble the board. Note 
that two planets of the same type can never by directly adjacent:
3 or 4 Players
Use all 10 space sector tiles and place sectors 05, 06, 
and 07 solid-side up. 
 Method 1: Place space sector tiles 01 through 04 as described 
in the basic setup, then randomly place tiles 05 through 10 to 
create the same board shape as the basic setup. Rotate each 
tile as you choose.
 Method 2: Randomly place space sector tiles 01 through 04 in 
the same orientation as in the basic setup, then randomly place 
tiles 05 through 10 to create the same board shape as the basic 
setup. Rotate each tile as you choose.
 Method 3: Randomly place all of the space sector tiles to 
create the same board shape as the basic setup. Rotate each 
tile as you choose.
1 or 2 Players
Use sector tiles 01 through 07 and place sectors 05, 
06, and 07 outlined-side up. 
Randomly place all of the space sector tiles to create the same 
board shape as the basic setup. Rotate each tile as you choose.
Even More Possibilities
Once you are very familiar with the game, try creating new 
shapes for the board. In a 3-player game, you can play without 
sectors 09 and 10 to reduce the size of the game board.
By placing your first mines you reveal spaces on your faction 
board. This is important for your income (see Phase I: In-
come on page 10).

APPENDICES
 Appendix I: Factions 
	
Terrans	
Planet Type: Terra
Ability: During the Gaia phase, move the power tokens in your 
Gaia area to area II of your power cycle instead of to area I. 
Planetary Institute: During the Gaia phase, when you move 
power tokens from your Gaia area to area II of your power cycle, 
you may gain resources as if you were spending that much power 
to take free actions. 
Example: During the Gaia phase, you move four power from 
the Gaia area to area II, allowing you to gain one ore and 
one credit.
	
Lantids	
Planet Type: Terra
Ability: When you take the “Build a Mine” action, you may 
build a mine on a planet colonized by an opponent (including the 
Lost Planet). Place your mine next to the opponent’s structure. 
You do not have to pay for terraforming, but you must still pay 
the mine’s cost. This mine counts as a normal mine in all ways 
except the following: this mine cannot be upgraded, and it does 
not count for any effects that relate to how many planet types or 
Gaia planets you have colonized.
Planetary Institute: Each time you build a mine on a planet 
colonized by an opponent, gain two knowledge.
	
Xenos	
Planet Type: Desert
Ability: You place a third starting mine after all other starting 
mines have been placed.
Planetary Institute: You can form federations with a total 
power value of six instead of seven. You gain one Q.I.C. as 
income instead of one power token.
	
Gleens	
Planet Type: Desert
Ability: If you would ever gain Q.I.C., gain that much ore 
instead; once you have upgraded to the indicated academy, this 
effect no longer applies. To make a Gaia Planet habitable, pay 
one ore instead of one Q.I.C. Each time you build a mine on a 
Gaia Planet, gain two additional VP.
Planetary Institute: When you upgrade 
to the planetary institute, immediately gain 
the Gleens’ federation token (gaining the 
resources shown as normal). Gaining this 
tile counts as forming a federation. The 
planetary institute itself can still be part of 
a federation on the board.
	
Taklons	
Planet Type: Swamp
Ability: The Brainstone counts as one power token 
(when starting a Gaia Project, building satellites, etc.), 
but you can spend it as if it were three power.
Planetary Institute: Each time you would charge power from 
“Passive Action: Charge Power,” you gain one power token. You 
can choose to gain the power before or after charging.
	
Ambas	
Planet Type: Swamp
Planetary Institute: Once per round, as an action, you can 
swap your planetary institute with one of your mines on the 
game board (this can help you form a new federation). This has 
no impact on existing federations, even if their power value 
becomes less than seven. The swap does not count as a build or 
upgrade action; no VP or power can be gained from it.
	
Hadsch Hallas	
Planet Type: Oxide
Planetary Institute: You can spend credits instead of power to 
take free actions that allow you to gain resources. 
Example: You can spend 3 credits to take the free action that 
allows you to gain one ore.
	
Ivits	
Planet Type: Oxide
Ability: During setup, do not place mines. Instead, after all other 
players have placed mines (including the Xenos’ third mine), 
place your planetary institute on any red planet.
You can have only one federation during the whole game, but 
unlike other factions, you will be able to grow that federation to 
gain new federation tokens. After you have formed a federation, 
to take the “Form a Federation” action again, you must connect 
planets to that federation instead of forming a new federation. The 
power values of the structures on those planets must bring the total 
power value of that federation to at least to 7X, where X is the 
number of federation tokens you own plus one (not including the 
federation token from level 5 of “Terraforming”). All other rules 
for forming a federation apply, including building satellites and 
gaining federation tokens. To build a satellite during this action, 
you must spend one Q.I.C. instead of discarding one power.
Planetary Institute: As a special action, place a space station 
on an accessible space that does not contain a planet or another 
space station. The accessibility of a space follows the same rules 
as the “Build a Mine” action. Like planets, a space station can 
be connected with satellites; each space station counts as having 
a power value of one for its federation. A space station is not 
a structure, so placing one does not allow opponents to charge 
power. A space station does not count as a colonized planet, 
but it can be used as a “starting point” when determining the 
accessibility of a planet (i.e., range can be counted from a space 
station). Your opponents can place satellites in a space containing 
a space station.
Gleens’ 
federation 
token.

	
Geodens	
Planet Type: Volcanic
Planetary Institute: The first time you build a mine on each 
planet type, gain 3 knowledge. (You do not gain knowledge for 
planet types you colonized before upgrading to your planetary 
institute.)
	
Bal T’aks	
Planet Type: Volcanic
Ability: You cannot advance in the “Navigation” research area, 
even if you take the tech tile below the “Navigation” research area. 
If you do take that tech tile, no advancement occurs.
 As a free action, you can move a Gaiaformer from a Gaiaformer 
space on your faction board to your Gaia area to gain one Q.I.C. 
Gaiaformers in your Gaia area are not available until the next Gaia 
phase. In the next Gaia phase, move any Gaiaformer in your Gaia 
area back to its Gaiaformer space. 
Planetary Institute: You can now advance in the “Navigation” 
	
Firaks	
Planet Type: Titanium
Planetary Institute: As an action, you can “downgrade” a 
research lab into a trading station and immediately advance one 
level in a research area of your choice. Advancing in a research 
area is explained on page 15. This counts as an “Upgrade to a 
Trading Station” action. You can later upgrade the trading station 
back into a research lab using the normal rules (including gaining 
a new tech tile).
	
Bescods	
Planet Type: Titanium
Ability: The positions of your planetary institute and academies 
are swapped on your faction board, as is the income you gain 
for trading stations and research labs. As with the other factions, 
upgrading to an academy or a research lab allows you to gain a 
tech tile.
Once per round, as an action, you can advance your lowest-level 
token in a research area (without paying knowledge). If multiple 
of your tokens are tied for the lowest level, choose which of 
the tied tokens to advance. To advance to level 5 this way, you 
must still flip a federation token as normal. Remember, only one 
player can reach level 5 of each research area.
Planetary Institute: The power value of your structures on gray 
planets (your home type) is increased by one (in addition to any 
other effects that increase their power value).
	
Nevlas	
Planet Type: Ice
Ability: As a free action, you can move one power token from 
area III of your power cycle to your Gaia area to gain one 
knowledge (these power tokens follow the normal Gaia phase 
rules). This does not count as spending power.
Planetary Institute: You can spend power tokens in area III of 
your power cycle as if they were each two power. Otherwise, 
they count as one power token (when starting a Gaia Project, 
building satellites, etc.). When paying for a power action with an 
odd power cost (1, 3, 5, etc.), the unspent power is lost.
	
Itars	
Planet Type: Ice
Ability: Each time you discard a power token from area II of 
your power cycle to move another power token to area III, place 
the discarded power token in your Gaia area instead of returning 
it to the supply.
Planetary Institute: During the Gaia phase, you can discard 
4 power tokens from your Gaia area to immediately gain a tech 
tile (standard or advanced). The rules for Gaining a Tech Tile are 
explained on page 13. You may do this as many times as you can 
afford to.

 Appendix II: Research Board 
From left the right, the research board includes the following research areas:
Terraforming, Navigation, Artificial Intelligence, Gaia Project, Economy, Science.
The different levels grant you the effects described below. Only the level your player token is on counts; 
Previous levels do not have any effect. Bonuses identified by a star and a white outline are one-time bonuses.
	
Terraforming
Level 0: Each terraforming step costs you three ore.
Level 1: Each terraforming step costs you three ore. 
Immediately gain two ore.
Level 2: Each terraforming step costs you two ore.
Level 3: Each terraforming step costs you one ore.
Level 4: Each terraforming step costs you one ore. Immediately 
gain two ore.
Level 5: Each terraforming step costs you one ore. Immediately 
gain the federation token placed here. Gaining this 
federation token counts as “Forming an Federation.” 
Remember that you must have a previously acquired 
federation token in order to advance to level 5 of this 
research area and claim the federation token there.
	
Navigation
Level 0: Your basic range is one. 
Level 1: Your basic range is one. Immediately gain one Q.I.C.
Level 2: Your basic range is two.
Level 3: Your basic range is two. Immediately gain one Q.I.C.
Level 4: Your basic range is three.
Level 5: Your basic range is four. Immediately place the 
Lost Planet token on an accessible space that does 
not contain a planet, satellite, or space station. The 
accessibility of a space follows the same rules as the 
“Build a Mine” action. This counts as a “Build a Mine” 
action, meaning you can gain VP and your opponents 
can gain power. Do not place a mine on the Lost Planet 
token. You are considered to have colonized the planet; 
place one of your satellites on the Lost Planet token as a 
reminder. The Lost Planet counts as its own planet type, 
and as a planet with a mine. You cannot upgrade this 
mine.
	
Artificial Intelligence
Level 1: Immediately gain one Q.I.C.
Level 2: Immediately gain one Q.I.C.
Level 3: Immediately gain two Q.I.C.
Level 4: Immediately gain two Q.I.C.
Level 5: Immediately gain four Q.I.C.
	
Gaia Project
Level 0: This level has no effect. You cannot start a Gaia Project.
Level 1: To start a Gaia project, you must move six power 
Level 2: To start a Gaia project, you must move six power tokens 
to your Gaia area. Immediately gain three power tokens. 
Level 3: To start a Gaia project, you must move four power 
Level 4: To start a Gaia project, you must move three power 
Level 5: To start a Gaia project, you must move three power 
tokens to your Gaia area. Immediately gain 4 VP and 
1 additional VP for each Gaia Planet with one of your 
structures on it (you do not gain VP for Gaiaformers on 
Gaia Planets).
	
Economy
Level 1: During each income phase, gain two credits and charge 
one power.
Level 2: During each income phase, gain one ore, two credits, 
and charge two power.
Level 3: During each income phase, gain one ore, three credits, 
and charge three power.
Level 4: During each income phase, gain two ore, four credits, 
and charge four power.
Level 5: Immediately gain three ore, six credits, and charge six 
power. Remember that you no longer receive the income 
from level 4.
	
Science 
Level 1: During each income phase, gain one knowledge.
Level 2: During each income phase, gain two knowledge.
Level 3: During each income phase, gain three knowledge.
Level 4: During each income phase, gain four knowledge.
Level 5: Immediately gain nine knowledge. Remember that you 
no longer receive the income from level 4.

 Appendix III: Power and Q.I.C. Action Spaces 
Action spaces on the research board are available to all players, but each of these actions can be taken only once per round. 
To take one of these actions, you must spend the amount of power or Q.I.C. shown above the action.
1 Actions: Gain two or three knowledge, two ore, seven credits, 
and two power tokens
When you take this action, immediately gain the resources 
shown.
2 Actions: Take one or two free terraforming steps
When you take this action, immediately take a “Build a Mine” 
action. You get the shown number of free terraforming steps 
to make a planet habitable. If you take the two-step action, but 
need only one step, the second step is lost. You can pay ore for 
additional terraforming steps, but you cannot combine this action 
with another action.
3 Actions: Gain a tech tile
When you take this action, immediately gain a tech tile of 
your choice (standard or advanced), advancing in a research area 
as normal (see Gaining a Tech Tile on page 13).
4 Action: Score a federation token again
When you take this action, immediately gain all resources and 
VP shown on one of your federation tokens (i.e., you gain the 
VP and resources of one of your federation tokens an additional 
time). You do not gain a new federation token, and you do not 
flip one of your federation tokens back to its green side. This 
means that you can neither get another advanced tech tile nor 
advance to another level 5 in any research area with the same 
federation token. If you do not have a federation token, you 
cannot take this action.
5 Action: Gain VP for planet types
When you take this action, immediately gain 3 VP and 1 
additional VP for each different planet type you have colonized 
(you do not gain VP for Gaiaformers on Gaia or Transdim 
Planets). Gaia Planets and the Lost Planet counts as their own 
planet types.
 Appendix IV: Round Boosters 
There are ten different round boosters in the game. Each booster grants you additional income, and some 
boosters have additional effects. Round boosters are only in effect while you have that booster.
1 During the income phase, gain one ore and one knowledge.
2 During the income phase, gain two credits and one Q.I.C.
3 During the income phase, gain two power tokens and one 
ore.
4 During the income phase, gain two credits. As a special 
action, you may take a “Build a Mine” action with one 
free terraforming step. You can pay ore for additional 
terraforming steps, but you cannot combine this action with 
another action.
5 During the income phase, charge two power. As a special 
action, you can take a “Build a Mine” action or “Start a 
Gaia Project” with your basic range increased by three. The 
normal rules for the actions apply. This action cannot be 
combined with another action.
6 During the income phase, gain one ore. When you return 
this round booster by taking the “Pass” action, gain 1 VP for 
each of your mines on the board (including the Lost Planet).
 
7 During the income phase, gain one knowledge. When you 
return this round booster by taking the “Pass” action, gain 3 
VP for each of your research labs on the board.
8 During the income phase, gain one ore. When you return 
this round booster by taking the “Pass” action, gain 2 VP for 
each of your trading stations on the board.
9 During the income phase, charge four power. When you 
return this round booster by taking the “Pass” action, gain 
4 VP for each of your planetary institutes and academies on 
the board.
10 During the income phase, gain four credits. When you return 
this round booster by taking the “Pass” action, gain 1 VP for 
each Gaia Planet you have colonized (you do not gain VP for 
Gaiaformers on Gaia or Transdim Planets).

 Appendix V: Round Scoring Tiles 
Each round scoring tile on the score board is in effect for one round. The central part of each tile shows 
you how to score additional VP during that round. The numbers on a tile’s upper part (to the left and right 
of the green icon) are needed only in the Automa solo game and are explained in the Automa rulebook.
 Appendix VI: Tech Tiles 
Most tech tiles allow you to gain resources or VP:
You gain the resources or VP shown:
How frequently you receive the shown resources or income can be tied to one of these conditions:
Examples:
When you take the “Pass” action, gain 3 VP 
per federation token you own.
Each time you advance in a research area, 
gain 2 additional VP.
When you gain this tech tile, immediately 
gain 1 ore for each sector in which you have 
colonized at least one planet.
During each income phase, gain 1 knowledge 
and 1 credit.
When you take the “Pass” action, gain 1 VP 
for each planet type you have colonized.
 
Each time you build a mine on a 
Gaia Planet, gain 3 additional VP. 
As a special action, gain 1 Q.I.C. and 5 
credits.
The power value of your planetary institute 
and academies becomes four. If you place 
an advanced tech tile on this tile, the power 
value returns to three. This does not affect 
federations that have already been formed.
Gain 2 additional 
VP when you 
build a mine.
Gain 3 or 4 additional 
VP (depending on 
the tile) when you 
upgrade to a trading 
station.
Gain 5 additional VP 
when you upgrade 
to an academy or 
planetary institute.
Gain 3 or 4 additional 
VP (depending on the 
tile) when you build a 
mine on a Gaia Planet.
Gain 5 additional VP when 
you gain a federation token 
(no matter how you gain the 
federation token).
Gain 2 additional VP for each 
terraforming step you take 
(no matter how you take the 
terraforming steps).
Gain 2 additional VP 
when you advance in a 
Ore
Credits
Knowledge
Q.I.C.
Power
VP
When you pass and return 
your round booster.
Immediately when 
you take the tech tile.
Each time the 
condition is met.
Income received in Phase I.
Special action, which you can take once per round.
Per planet type you have 
colonized (including 
Gaia Planets and the Lost 
Planet).
Per federation 
token you 
own.
Per sector in which you 
have colonized one or 
more planets (including 
the Lost Planet).
Per Gaia Planet 
you have 
colonized.