The game consists of three rounds. In each 
round, the players begin by rummaging through the 
Warehouse, trying to grab the best components and 
build the best space ship. Once the ships are under 
way, the players try to avoid snares and obstacles, 
while grasping financial opportunities, each hoping 
to be the first to finish with an undamaged ship.
In Round 1, players build Class I ships and fly 
them on a safe short hop. In Round 2, they 
build larger Class II ships to take on a more 
daring journey. In Round 3, they build 
gigantic Class III ships and set out for the 
farthest, most dangerous corners of the 
Galaxy.
Longer journeys offer greater rewards, 
but also present greater dangers. 
For these contracts, Corp Inc. 
only accepts experienced 
applicants with a strong credit 
rating (and a net worth ensuring that, 
if need be, Corp Inc. can collect any 
debts from the contractor’s estate).
The goal of the game is to have the most cosmic 
credits at the end of Round 3.
Corporation Incorporated is an interplanetary construction ﬁ rm that builds 
sewer systems and low-income housing on the less-developed planets of the Galaxy. 
For years, Corp Inc. has tottered on the brink of bankruptcy: transporting building materials 
to the edge of the Galaxy, where the need for their services is greatest, is a risky business.
The company was saved by a few visionaries on the board of directors. Instead 
of shipping materials to the Periphery, they reasoned, why not build the materials 
into spacecraft and let them ship themselves? Furthermore, why hire pilots if there 
are nut-cases who will do it for free?
That’s where you come in. Just sign the contract, and you gain unrestricted access 
to a Corp Inc. Warehouse. Build your own space ship from the available prefabricated 
components, and ﬂ y it to the Periphery. Of course, you may have to eat a loss, 
but any proﬁ ts you make along the way are yours to keep, and Corporation Incorporated 
will pay you a bonus for quick delivery.
It’s possible that you will end up with an insurmountable debt and ﬁ nish your days 
panhandling on the streets of Deneb III, but if Lady Luck should smile upon you, you just 
might ﬁ nd yourself among the 10 billion richest people in the Galaxy!
hree rounds. In each
ummaging through the
e best components and
nce the ships are under
snares and obstacles,
ortunities, each hoping
n undamaged ship.
ass I ships and fly 
In Round 2, they 
take on a more
3, they build 
et out for the 
orners of the
ewa
wards, 
ngers
rs. 
In
Inc.
c.
c 
redi
di
di
dit
ng
ng t tha
ha
hat, 
ec
ect any 
state).
have the most cosmic
3.

Remember the words of Wild Andy, the famous 
multimillionaire-adventurer: “The best way to learn 
to ﬂ y a space craft is to ﬂ y one.” Of course, Andy 
uttered these words just before crashing his 
rocketplane into Sirius, but we’re willing to give 
him the beneﬁ t of the doubt.
SETUP 
Each player takes a space ship 
board labeled “I”. Place your 
starting component on the 
square with this “I”. It represents 
your pilot cabin. There are four of 
these, each in a different color. 
For fewer than four players, 
leave the extra ones in the box.
Turn the other components face down 
and mix them up in a pile in the center 
of the table where everyone can reach 
them. This pile is the Warehouse.
 Near this pile, place the tiles numbered 
“1” through “4” (“1” through “3” for 
three players or “1” and “2” for two 
players) in a row.
 
 
 For now, you can leave the other game 
pieces in the box.
GRABBING COMPONENTS 
When everyone is ready, the boldest player says, “Go!” 
Everyone grabs a (face-down) component from the pile in the 
middle of the table. You can only take one at a time. Place it on 
your space ship board and turn it face up.
Now you have two possibilities: either add it to your space ship 
or return it face up to the center of the table. Thus, face-up 
components will appear on the table. Players can take these or 
grab a face-down component, hoping for something better.
Players do not take turns. You play as fast as you can grab, 
with the following rules:
 
 You can only grab with one hand. The other hand has to 
stay above your space ship board.
 
 You can’t turn up a face-down component and look at it on 
the table. You have to keep it face down until it is above 
your space ship board.
 
 Until you add the component to your space ship or return it 
to the center of the table, you cannot grab another one.
 
 You can’t move a component once it has been added to your 
space ship, but you can move your newest component around 
while deciding whether to add it and where. Until you grab 
another component, you can change your mind about where 
to put your newest component or whether to keep it at all.
BUILDING SHIPS 
You start with one starting component and add new ones as 
you go. Each new component must be placed on an empty 
square next to one already placed. Components can only be 
placed on the indicated squares.
Each component has a functional part and 1 to 4 connectors. 
Connectors can be simple, double, or universal.
Any connector can join with another of the same type, 
and a universal connector can join with any type. A simple 
connector cannot join with a double connector. Sides with 
no connectors are called smooth sides. Smooth sides cannot 
join with any connectors.
 Each component you place must join with the rest of your space 
ship. If it touches the ship on multiple sides, all connectors 
must legally join. Two smooth sides may sit next to each other 
as long as the piece being added makes a legal connection on 
another side. Your ship must hold together at all times.
Y O U R F I R S T S H I P 
You can play Round 1 without reading all the rules beforehand. Read the section on building 
ships – and build one. Read the section on preparing for launch – and prepare for it. Read the 
section on test flights – and take the test flight. Only then do you need to read the rest of the 
rules so you can play Rounds 2 and 3.
simple
connector
smooth side
universal connector
double
connector
 

COMPONENTS 
The starting component represents your pilot cabin. It has 
4 universal connectors, making it easy to build on to. The 
Warehouse is full of other components you will want on your 
space ship.
Cabins 
You can add additional cabins to your ship, 
allowing you to have a bigger crew. Bigger 
crews are better so you want to have as 
many cabins as possible.
Engines 
g
 Engines have special limitations: the exhaust 
pipe must point to the rear of the space ship 
(toward the player) and no component can 
sit on the square behind the engine. This 
means that the exhaust pipe either opens 
into anempty square or the edge of the 
building zone.
Ships with more engines are faster, so you want as many 
engines as possible.
Cannons 
Cannons can point in any direction, but 
they are most effective when they point 
forward 
(away 
from 
player). 
No component can sit on the square in 
front of the cannon’s barrel. 
Many dangers await you on your journey. You may be in 
combat, or you may need to blow up meteors. That’s why 
you want as many cannons as possible, especially forward-
pointing ones.
Double Engines and Cannons 
 The space ship’s exterior limits the number 
of engines and cannons that can be added, 
high-powered 
components 
have 
been 
developed to increase speed and fire power 
beyond conventional maximums.
Engineers have tinkered with increasing surface area 
to provide more mounting points. However, most 
research in this direction has ceased since the Star 
Ship Möbius exploded and imploded at the same time.
Double engines and cannons follow the same placement rules 
as simple ones do. They have twice the power, but at the 
expense of consuming a lot more energy. These components 
cannot be used without batteries.
Batteries 
Energy for double engines and double cannons 
is stored in size E batteries. (The “E” is for 
“E-normous.”)
 A battery component will have 2 or 3 E-cells. 
Each E-cell stores enough energy to power one 
use of a double engine, a double cannon, or a 
shield (see below). Batteries can be anywhere 
on the ship; they do not have to be next to the 
component they are powering.
With matter-annihilation technology, it was possible 
to store this much energy in a battery no larger than 
a good cigar. Today, of course, matter annihilation 
is illegal thanks to the lobbying efforts of matter 
rights activists. (And narrowly defeated in the 
last legislative session was a bill backed by the 
gentlemen’s clubs lobby to ban the use of good cigars 
in silly comparisons.)
To get the most from your ship, you’ll need double cannons and 
double engines, which means you will want as many batteries 
as possible.
c
e
shie
on t
com
 T
o
b
b
Ene
is 
“E-
A b
Eac
use
y 

Shield Generators 
Shields are there for when things go wrong. 
They can deflect smaller meteors and 
typical hits from enemy cannons. They get 
their power from batteries.
One shield generator can protect the ship 
on two sides: the ones that are glowing green in the picture. 
It works from any place on the ship. All that matters is which 
way it is oriented.
Now you are probably expecting us to say you want as 
many as possible. Of course not. You only need two shield 
generators, 
provided 
they 
are oriented to cover all four 
directions. In fact, if you are 
gutsy (or suicidal) you can fly 
without any shields at all.
One shield covers the left 
side and the front of the ship. 
The other covers the left side 
and the rear. The right side is 
unprotected.
Cargo Holds 
g
 Cargo holds come with 2 or 3 containers. You 
can put them anywhere. They can be used to 
store the goods that you find along the way. Of 
course, goods translate into profits, which is 
what this journey is all about, so you want as 
many cargo holds as possible.
Special Cargo Holds 
p
Hazardous materials can only be transported in 
reinforced containers, which are found in 
special cargo holds. (These holds only have 1 or 
2 containers.) Normal goods can be transported 
in special holds or normal holds, but hazardous 
goods can only be transported in special holds. 
Of course there are thousands of horror stories 
illustrating why hazardous goods should not be 
transported in normal containers. We give only the 
example of James “Skip” Fairweather, who decided 
to transport several tons of plutonium in used fruit 
crates. Upon landing, he lost both arms and one leg 
to a mob of angry environmentalists.
Hazardous goods are the most valuable, so it is important to 
have a lot of special cargo holds.
Structural Modules 
 
 Structural modules don’t seem very important 
because they don’t do anything. However, they 
have a lot of connectors, many of them 
universal. Structural modules can make your 
ship more durable so that it doesn’t fly apart 
the first time it gets hit by something.
Odd Bits with Unknown Purpose 
Don’t worry about these 
other 
components 
right 
now. On your first flight, 
you can treat them just like 
structural modules.
THE WELL-BUILT SHIP 
Above all, your ship must be built according to the rules. In addition, 
it should be solid, bristling with cannons and engines, full of cabins, 
batteries, and holds, and completely protected by shields.
Exposed Connectors 
Connectors that are not connected, i.e., those not adjacent 
to another component, are considered to be exposed.
This ship has 8 exposed connectors
Exposed connectors are allowed, but they increase the risk 
of damage to your ship and in some cases they can slow it 
down. The ends of exposed pipes get warped in transit, so 
Corporation Incorporated pays a bonus for ships that arrive 
with few exposed connectors.
FINISHING YOUR SHIP 
Once you are happy with your ship (or once you run out of good 
places to add on more components) you can finish your ship. 
You do not have to place a component on every square of your 
ship board.
To finish your ship, simply take the number 
tile with the lowest remaining number. If 
everyone else finishes before you, you will be 
left with the highest-numbered tile, but you 
will have as much time to finish your ship as you want. (In the 
full game, there is a time limit, but for your first game, we 
assume that anyone taking an unreasonably long time can be 
persuaded to finish by gently thumping the box lid against his 
head.)
The tiles determine the order in which the space ships will 
launch. It is not enough to build a perfect space ship with lots 
of everything and no exposed connectors. You want to be 
the first.
But, before taking that tile, double-check to be sure your ship 
is built according to the rules. In your first game, we can be 
lenient. If you see a mistake, just remove a component so that 
it no longer violates the rule, and play on. 
con
2 c
spe
in 
good
go
Of course th
th
o
co
wh
ma
ma
Special C
Don’
othe
now.
you c
stru
y

Typical mistakes include:
 
 A simple connector adjacent to a double.
 
 Any type of connector adjacent to a smooth edge.
 
 An engine not pointing toward the rear.
 
 A component placed immediately behind an engine.
 
 A component placed immediately in front of a cannon’s 
barrel.
 
 A component outside the indicated building area.
 
 A component or part of the ship not attached to the 
rest.
SPOT CHECK 
Check everyone else’s ship to be sure they are all built according 
to the rules. Anyone found to have violated a ship building rule 
must return his or her number tile and fix the mistake. Re-
distribute the number tiles among those with legal ships so that 
the highest numbers are left for those who are re-building .
BANK 
Now you can take the sack and dump out all the figures, 
blocks, markers, and dice. This is the bank. You want to keep 
these things accessible but out of the way.
THE FLIGHT BOARD 
Remove all the remaining 
components from the center 
of the table and lay down the 
flight board. In the center of 
the flight board is a price list 
and a graphical summary of 
the rules for Round 1. 
Around 
these 
information 
boxes is a circle of triangular shapes. These are the spaces of 
the game board which will indicate the relative position of your 
ships. Each space represents one day of flight.
Take the two space ship markers in your color. Set one in front 
of you and put the other one on the flight board. The rules 
summary depicts the initial separation between your space 
ships: The player with tile number 1 puts his or her ship on 
the indicated starting space and the player with tile number 
2 puts his or her ship 2 spaces behind it. (That is, with one 
empty space between, as shown in the diagram on the game 
board.) The other players go behind the first two with the same 
amount of separation. You can set the number tiles aside now. 
Your figures on the flight board represent your order of flight, 
which can change during the course of the game. The player 
in front will be referred to as the leader. 
PREPARING YOUR SHIP 
In each cabin, place 2 white 
figures. These are humans in 
white space suits. (The ones in 
the other colors are aliens, but 
you don’t have to worry about 
them right now.)
On each battery component, 
place 2 or 3 green tokens 
(depending on how many E-cells 
are depicted).
ADVENTURE CARDS 
The adventure cards represent various 
dangers and opportunities that you may 
encounter on your journey.
From the deck labeled “I”, take the eight 
cards marked with an asterisk in the lower 
left corner. Shuffle these eight cards and 
set them near the flight board.
COSMIC CREDITS 
And now the best part: take the cosmic credits 
and place them in neat stacks near the bank. 
On your journey, you can look at them from time 
to time and anticipate just how much money 
you are going to make.
Far more important than money, of course, is the thrill 
of adventure. And fame. And glory. And honor... Oh 
who are we kidding? With enough money, you can 
buy adventure, fame, glory, and honor and still have 
enough left over for dinner at a fancy restaurant.
When you earn cosmic credits, you set them in front of you 
face down to keep your total hidden.
P R E P A R I N G F O R L A U N C H 
Pop Quiz: Find 7 
things wrong with 
this ship.

WHAT CAN HAPPEN TO YOU 
Hits to Your Ship 
A box in the corner of the game board depicts the possible 
dangers your ship might face. Each threat comes from 
a certain direction in a specific row or column. This will be 
explained in greater detail later, but here is a summary:
 You can protect your ship from small 
meteors by building it well (they just 
bounce off unless they hit an exposed 
connector) or by using a shield (which 
will cost you 1 battery token).
 You can protect your ship from large 
meteors by shooting them with a 
cannon.
 You can protect your ship from light 
cannon fire with a shield (which will cost 
you 1 battery token).
 Nothing protects your ship from heavy 
cannon fire.
If your ship is hit (because you can’t or won’t protect it) the 
component that was hit must be removed. This might cause 
some other components to become disconnected. Remove them 
as well. If your ship is broken into two pieces, you decide which 
piece you will pilot to your destination and which piece will be lost.
Lost components are placed in your 
discard pile, on the right side of your ship 
board. When you reach your destination, 
you will have to forfeit 1 cosmic credit for 
each lost component. Any playing pieces (crew, battery tokens, 
goods) on lost components are returned to the bank.
Don’t worry about the crew members in those cabins 
that were blasted away. Should the cabin experience 
a loss of pressure, stasis cocoons will drop from 
overhead compartments and wrap them up safely 
until they are rescued. They are the lucky ones, 
really. Think of the thousands of years of interest that 
will have accumulated in their bank accounts by the 
time someone ﬁ nds them.
Gaining and Losing Flight Days 
Some cards have a number in the lower right 
corner. This tells how many days you will lose if 
you use the card. Whenever you lose flight days, 
voluntarily or not, move your marker back that 
many empty spaces.
If Blue loses 3 flight days, he will end up in the space just in 
front of Red.
Similarly, when you gain flight days, move your marker that 
many empty spaces forward. There can never be two 
markers on the same space.
Getting Goods 
When a card enables you 
to load goods onto your 
ship, take the indicated colored blocks from the 
bank and place them in your cargo containers. 
(Each cargo hold has 1 to 3 containers.) Each 
container can only hold 1 block. Excess goods 
have to be dumped into space (returned to the 
bank). The price list will help you decide what to 
keep and what to dump.
Red blocks are the most valuable, but they are 
hazardous materials and must be kept in the 
reinforced containers found in special cargo 
holds. If you don’t have enough reinforced 
containers, you have to discard excess red 
blocks.
As long as you have enough space, you should 
take everything you can get – even if you have 
to put cheap goods in special cargo holds. 
When you load new goods, you can always 
re-arrange or discard any amount of cargo.
Dumping goods into space is a violation 
of anti-littering laws, punishable by ﬁ nes and 
imprisonment. Under no circumstances should you 
ever tell the authorities that we were the ones who 
recommended that you do this.
Loss of Goods or Crew 
 If a card requires you to give up goods, you must 
return the most valuable goods to the bank. If 
you don’t have enough goods to cover the 
indicated loss, you must give up green battery 
tokens to make up the difference. Once you are 
out of goods and battery tokens, they can’t take 
any more from you.
 If a card requires you to give up crew, 
return that many figures to the bank. If 
you don’t have enough, just give up all you 
have. (In the full game, not having enough 
crew to meet the card’s requirement 
would be a bigger problem.)
T H E F L I G H T 
The test flight shows who built the best ship. It consists of 8 adventure cards. (In the 
full game, these cards will be chosen at random, but for your first flight, we use the 
8 with asterisks to ensure that you will meet with every type of event.) The adventure 
cards have various effects.

PARAMETERS OF YOUR SHIP 
Sometimes you have to count up the strength of your engines 
or cannons. 
Double engines and double cannons need power. Each time 
you have to calculate the strength of your engines or cannons, 
you must decide which double engines or cannons you will 
power and spend batteries for them.
Engine Strength 
Each simple engine counts as 1.
Each double engine on which you spend a 
green battery token counts as 2.
Cannon Strength 
Each forward-pointing simple cannon 
counts as 1.
Each forward-pointing double cannon on 
which you spend a green battery token 
counts as 2.
Each cannon pointing to the side or to 
the rear counts at only half value (1/2 
for a simple cannon or 1 for a double 
cannon on which you spend a green 
token).
A D V E N T U R E C A R D S 
OPEN SPACE 
Open Space is like a wide open drag strip.
The leader announces the strength of his or 
her engines. (See Parameters of Your Ship 
above.) The leader must decide whether or 
not to spend battery tokens on any double 
engines. Then the leader moves his or her 
marker ahead a number of spaces equal to 
the engine strength.
In order, each player decides which engines to power, 
announces strength, and moves his or her ship forward that 
many empty spaces. Any player overtaking another will pass 
him or her because occupied spaces are not counted. (See 
What Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing Flight Days, 
above.)
PLANETS 
A Planets card has 2 to 4 rows of goods 
representing planets where you can land to 
pick up goods. Landing on a planet will cost 
you the number of flight days indicated in the 
lower right corner. If you want to land, place 
your marker (the extra one that is sitting in 
front of you) on the planet you choose. Only 
one player’s marker is allowed per row.
The leader chooses first, followed by the other players 
in order. No player is required to land. In fact, if there are 
few planets, the players in the lead may occupy all of them, 
preventing the others from landing at all.
The players who chose to land load the indicated goods on 
their ships. Goods can be re-arranged or discarded at this 
time. (See What Can Happen to You – Gaining Goods, above.) 
It is legal to land just to take the opportunity away from other 
players, even if you can’t take any of the goods (but be sure it 
is worth the loss of flight days).
You are paying for these goods, not stealing them, but 
it is hard to tell the difference. The cost to you is only 
an insigniﬁ cant fraction of a credit. The natives are 
willing to accept any artifacts of civilization in trade – 
glass beads, carbonated beverages, a video chip with 
a copy of the latest installment of their favorite soap 
opera.
Once everyone has decided whether to land, those who 
landed move their markers back that many empty spaces with 
the player who is farthest behind moving first. (See What 
Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing Flight Days, above.)
The leader (initially, the player with tile number 1) turns up the first adventure card. This 
card is dealt with as described below or on the following pages. (Each adventure will come 
up once, so you can read about them one-at-a-time as the cards are turned up.) Next, the 
leader (which may be a different player if the adventure mixed up the order) turns up the 
next card, and so on, until all eight adventures have occurred.
him or her because occupied spaces are not counted. (See
What Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing Flight Days,
above.)

ABANDONED SHIP 
If you find an abandoned ship, you’re in 
gravy! There is some sort of protocol for 
reporting these things, but what the heck. 
Surely some of your crew are sick of you by 
now and have been saving for a ship of their 
own. Fix up the abandoned ship and sell it to 
them for a fair price.
Only one player can use this opportunity. 
The leader decides first. He or she can return the specified 
number of crew figures to the bank and take the indicated 
number of cosmic credits. This also costs a certain number 
of flight days. (See What Can Happen to You – Gaining and 
Losing Flight Days, above.)
If the leader chooses not to take advantage of the opportunity, it 
falls to the next player in line, and so on. Once someone decides 
to fix up the space ship, the remaining players are out of luck.
Sometimes you’ll ﬁ nd a ship that you’ll be tempted 
to keep for yourself. Don’t be greedy. Let the crew 
have it. There’s probably a reason that ship was 
abandoned.
ABANDONED STATION 
When fleeing the tragic disaster that befell 
this space station, the inhabitants probably 
left behind some good loot. It will take a big 
crew to search for it, though. To use this 
opportunity, you must have at least as many 
crew on board as required by the card. 
Only one player can use this opportunity. 
The leader decides first. If the leader has 
enough crew, he or she can dock and get to work. If the leader 
can’t or won’t, the opportunity falls to the next person in line, 
and so on. Once someone decides to dock, the others are out 
of luck.
When you dock with a space station, take the indicated goods 
and place them on your ship. (You can re-arrange or discard 
goods. See What Can Happen to You – Gaining Goods.) Move 
your marker back the indicated number of empty spaces. (See 
What Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing Flight Days.)
Note that on an abandoned space station you lose no crew. 
(The crew symbol does not have a minus sign, as it does on an 
abandoned ship.)
METEORIC SWARM 
A meteoric swarm can really mess with 
your paint job. This card depicts several 
large and/or small meteors and the 
directions they come from. Meteors are 
dealt with one at a time. They affect every 
player simultaneously.
For each meteor, the leader rolls two dice. 
The roll determines which row or column 
the meteor can impact (rows for meteors with left or right 
arrows, columns for meteors with up or down arrows). 
The row and column numbers are given on the edge of your 
ship board. Each player checks to see which component is 
threatened by the meteor. For some die rolls, it could miss 
your ship entirely. If it does not, proceed as follows:
 A small meteor will harmlessly bounce off of a well 
built ship. It is only a problem if it hits an exposed 
connector (pipes pointing out in the direction from 
which the meteor is coming). In this case, you can 
still avoid damage by powering up a shield if you 
have one that protects that side. You must pay 1 
green battery token to do this. If you can’t or won’t 
avoid the impact, the component the meteor hits 
is removed from your ship. (See What Can Happen 
to You – Getting Hit, above.)
 A large meteor is, of course, even more dangerous. 
It will damage even a well built ship and shields 
cannot stop it. Your only hope is to blast it. You 
can only shoot it if you have a cannon pointed at it 
in the same column. If it is a double cannon, you 
will have to pay 1 green battery token to use it. 
Large meteors tend to come from in front of you, 
which is why we recommended you pay special 
attention to cannons pointing forward.
If you don’t shoot a large meteor, the component 
it hits is removed from your ship. (See What Can 
Happen to You – Getting Hit, above.)
ENEMIES (SMUGGLERS, 
SLAVERS, PIRATES) 
Enemies pose a threat to everyone, but 
they attack the players’ ships in order. First, 
they attack the leader. If they win, they 
attack the next player in line, and so on, 
until they have attacked everyone or until 
someone defeats them.
These cards are divided into two parts. In 
the darker top half is shown what happens 
to you if you lose. (If you lose to the smugglers, you must give 
up 2 goods – the most valuable ones.) In the lighter bottom 
half is shown what you get if you win. (If you defeat smugglers, 
you win the indicated goods.)
The strength of the enemy is given by the number next to the 
cannon symbol. (These smugglers have strength 4.)
The leader counts the strength of his or her ship (paying for 
any double cannons used). If this strength is greater than the 
enemy’s, the player wins and claims the reward. This costs 
a certain number of flight days specified in the lower right 
corner. (See What Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing 
Flight Days.) If a player wins, the enemies go away and the 
remaining players are not attacked.

If the player loses (has a lower strength than the enemy), he or 
she pays the penalty specified in the upper half of the card.
In case of a tie (when the player has strength equal to the 
enemy’s) nothing happens to the player. In either of these last 
two cases, the undefeated enemy moves on to attack the 
next player in line, according to the same rules.
Red is the leader. He could have 
a strength of 5 (2 for simple 
cannons, 2 for the double 
cannon pointing forward, 1 for 
the double cannon pointing to 
the side) but this would cost 
2 battery tokens and he only 
has 1. He decides to use it, 
giving him a strength of 4, 
which matches the smugglers. 
The result is a tie and nothing 
happens to red.
Green is next in line. By paying 
2 battery tokens, she has 
strength 4 1/2. This is enough 
to defeat the smugglers 
and take 2 of their goods. 
(She discards the blue block 
because she can’t fit it on her 
ship.) She also moves her ship 
back 1 empty space.
Blue is lucky to have been 
flying last. He can’t make his 
strength go higher than 3, 
so if no one ahead of him had 
defeated the smugglers, he 
would have lost his goods.
COMBAT ZONE 
The true test of any space ship is to fly it 
through a combat zone. The Combat Zone 
card has 3 lines which are evaluated in 
succession. Each line gives a criterion and 
a penalty for the player who is weakest in 
that area. (If multiple players are tied for 
being weakest, the one who is farthest 
ahead pays the penalty.)
The only remaining combat zones are in the 
barbarous regions of the Periphery. War-time 
activities that harm thinking creatures or machines 
have been outlawed by the New New New Geneva 
Convention, so war has lost a lot of its punch. And 
really, it has always been more effective to ﬁ ll the 
enemy’s economy with cheap goods than to ﬁ ll his 
sky with battleships.
First, the player with the fewest crew figures loses 3 flight 
days. (See What Can Happen to You – Gaining and Losing 
Flight Days.)
Next, the player with the weakest engines (see Parameters 
of Your Ship – Engine Strength) loses two crew members. 
Players count up their engine strength in order, starting with 
the leader, deciding whether or not to spend battery tokens 
on double engines.
Yellow has engine strength 
3. He has no double engines, 
so he has no decisions to 
make.
Green can have engine 
strength 1, 3, or 5, depending 
on whether she spends 
0, 1, or 2 battery tokens.
Yellow is ahead, so if they are tied for strength, Yellow 
will have to pay the penalty and green player will not. 
Green only needs to spend 1 battery token.
Finally, the player with the weakest cannons (see Parameters 
of Your Ship – Cannon Strength) is threatened by light cannon 
fire from behind and heavy cannon fire from behind. Again, 
players decide in order, starting with the leader, which double 
cannons they will pay for.
Hits from cannon fire work like hits from meteors (see 
Meteoric Swarm) except they are more difficult to defend 
against. Each hit has a direction. The player rolls two dice to 
determine which row or column the hit is coming from, thus 
determining which component of the ship (if any) is in danger.
 The only way to defend against light cannon fire is 
with a shield that protects against hits from 
that direction. This can be powered at the cost of 
1 green battery token. Otherwise, the component 
is destroyed. (See What Can Happen to You – Hits 
to Your Ship.)
 There is no way to defend against heavy 
cannon fire. Your only hope against it is to roll 
high enough or low enough that it misses your 
ship entirely. Otherwise, the component it hits 
is destroyed. (See What Can Happen to You – 
Hits to Your Ship.)
SPECIAL EVENT: STARDUST 
Lose 1 flight day 
for each exposed 
connector. 
Yellow cards are special events. Their effect 
is written on the card.
The Stardust event says that every player 
loses 1 flight day for every exposed 
connector. (Each exposed connector only 
counts once, regardless of whether it is 
simple, double, or universal.) Starting with 
the last player, each player counts his or 
her exposed connectors and moves his or her marker back 
that many empty spaces. (See What Can Happen to You – 
Gaining and Losing Flight Days.)

REWARDS AND PENALTIES 
The information in the center of the flight board depicts the 
rewards and penalties you receive at the end of your flight. 
You should deal with these in order from left to right: first 
bonuses, then sale of goods, and finally penalties.
Bonuses 
The rules box in the center of the game board depicts the 
bonuses available for Round 1.
 The numbers separated by dashes 
tell how many credits you get based 
on the order in which you land at 
your destination. So, after the last 
adventure card has been dealt with, 
the leader gets 4 cosmic credits, 
the second place finisher gets 3, 
and so on.
 The number in square brackets gives the 
bonus for the player who lands with the best-
looking ship. Count up the number of exposed 
connectors on your ships. (Each exposed 
connector only counts once, regardless of 
whether it is simple, double, or universal.) 
Whoever has the fewest gets the indicated 
bonus. (If there is a tie for the fewest, all 
those players receive the bonus.)
Goods 
Return 
all 
your 
goods 
to 
bank, and take the 
number of cosmic 
credits 
indicated 
by the price list.
Losses 
 Now you have to deliver the components of 
your ship to Corporation Incorporated. For 
each component you lost along the way 
you lose 1 cosmic credit. (When you lost 
components, you placed them in the discard 
pile on your space ship board, so it is easy 
to keep track of how many you lost.)
Fortunately, the Department of Stellar 
Vehicles requires every space ship to be 
insured, so there is a limit to how much 
you can lose. This maximum is given in 
the discard area of your ship board. (For Class I ships, the 
limit is 5 cosmic credits.) Even if you lost more components 
than this, you only have to pay this many cosmic credits. 
Pangalactic Insurance Company will pay the difference to 
Corp Inc. just as soon as they can get a claims adjuster out to 
the edge of the Galaxy.
However, if you lose over twice this many components ... 
well, then you still just pay the maximum. But Corporation 
Incorporated will fire the guy who signed you up for this job. 
How you assuage your guilty conscience is up to you.
It is well known that matter warps space. 
Less well advertised is that documents warp truth. 
A Pangalactic Insurance policy, which takes into 
consideration such factors as time dilation, the 
Fitzgerald contraction, and the Doppler effect, is the 
legal equivalent of a black hole: everyone’s money 
gets sucked in, and none of it ever comes back out.
THE END OF THE ROUND 
Congratulations on completing your first flight. Return all 
tokens, blocks, and figures to the bank. Take all your space 
ship components except your pilot cabin and put them in 
the Warehouse pile in the center of the table. The adventure 
cards can be returned to the box: in the next rounds you will 
be using different cards.
Keep your cosmic credits. You should stack them in a tidy pile 
face down in front of you so that no one else can see them. 
(The other players should be trying to make their own money, 
not staring longingly at yours.)
Now you can read the full rules and either play Rounds 2 and 
3 or start a new game from the beginning.
J O U R N E Y ’ S E N D 
Your trip is over once the last of the eight adventure cards has been dealt with.
f 
r
y y 
t
whether it is simple, double, or universal.)
Whoever has the fewest gets the indicated 
bonus. (If there is a tie for the fewest, all 
those players receive the bonus.)
T
Co
to
sh
th
ca
be
Ke
fac
(Th
no
No
3 o

SET UP 
In each round, use the ship boards with the corresponding 
number. (In Round 3, use board III, not IIIa.)
max -8 
iI
max -11 
iiI
The shape requirements for ships of classes I, II, and 
III were established by the Aldebaran Accord, which 
resolved several decades of conﬂ ict between the 
Union of Trans-Galactic Engineers and the Science 
Fiction Writers Association.
I
 Before you start building your 
ships, get out the flight board and 
set it near the Warehouse. If this is 
the start of Round 2 or Round 3, 
find the appropriate rules card and 
place it on the board over top of the 
rules for Round 1.
ADVENTURE CARDS 
In the full game, you may take advantage of Corporation 
Incorporated’s prognostics division and look at the adventure 
cards while you are building your ship.
Before everyone starts grabbing for components, make three 
piles of adventure cards, chosen at random, and place them 
on the indicated squares on the flight board. Each pile should 
contain the cards depicted in the lower left corner of the rules 
card. Each pile contains 2 cards from the deck corresponding to 
the current round and 1 card from each lower-numbered deck.
Looking at Cards 
If you have added at least one component to your ship, you can 
take a break from building and pick up any one of the three 
piles to look through those cards. When you return them, you 
can resume building or look through another pile. You can look 
at a pile for as long as you like, and you can pick it up as often 
as you like. Be sure to return each pile to the place where you 
picked it up to make it easier for everyone to tell which piles 
they have seen already.
Of course, looking at the cards takes up time that could be 
spent grabbing components, but the information on what you 
might encounter in that part of the Galaxy can be very helpful. 
(For example, if you see a lot of planets, you might want more 
cargo holds.)
Preparing the Adventure Cards 
When everyone is done building, you add a pile of cards that 
no one has seen yet. Make a fourth pile of cards the same 
way you made the other three. Put all four piles together and 
shuffle thoroughly. If the number on the top card does not 
match the number of the round, keep shuffling until it does. 
(This won’t be an issue in Round 1, of course.)
It is theoretically possible to predict everything that 
happens to you, but it is forbidden by the Department 
of Antiperfectionism’s “Preservation of Suspense on 
Space Flights” regulations. 
In Round 1, you will have three piles of two cards each. When 
you mix in the fourth pile, you will have 8 cards, just as you 
did in the test flight. In later rounds, you will have more cards 
because they are longer flights.
THE TIMER 
Saying “Go!” 
In Round 1, the boldest player says “Go!” 
In Rounds 2 and 3, this role falls to the 
player who landed first in the previous 
round. In addition to saying “Go!” this 
player must start the timer and put it in 
the circle on the flight board that 
corresponds to the round number.
Turning Over the Timer 
The timer measures how much time is left for building ships. 
When time runs out, any player may turn the timer over and 
place it on the next circle (from a higher number to a lower). 
Usually, this is done by someone who is progressing well and 
doesn’t want to give the others a chance to catch up.
F U L L R U L E S 
The following text assumes that you have already made your first flight. This section 
gives only the additional rules that are used in the full game. Use these rules for Rounds 
2 and 3 in your first game. In later games, you use these rules in Round 1 as well.

The Last Flip 
start
start
When the time runs out on the timer 
sitting in circle number 1, it can be flipped 
over one last time and set in the circle 
marked “Start”. However, only a player 
who has finished building and taken a 
numbered tile may do this.
The last flip measures how much time the 
rest of the players have to complete their ships. When that 
time runs out, no one can add another component. Everyone 
stops building and takes a numbered tile. (The lowest 
numbered remaining tile goes to whoever grabs it first.)
In Round 1 of a full game, the situation is as follows: the 
boldest player sets the timer on circle 1 while saying “Go!” 
The first player to finish building takes tile number 1. By this 
time, the timer has probably run out, so the player turns it 
over and sets it on the circle labeled “Start”, thus giving the 
other players their final countdown. (If it is still running, of 
course, the player has to wait until it is done.) 
In Round 2, the timer starts on circle 2. When it runs out, 
anyone can turn it over and place it on circle 1. You can’t flip it 
over from circle 2 directly to the “Start” circle, not even if you 
have finished building and taken a numbered tile. You have to 
let it run out in circle 1 first. 
SETTING COMPONENTS ASIDE 
While building, you can have up to two 
components set aside. These go in the 
upper right corner of your ship board 
(i.e., your discard pile). No one can take 
these from you, but you cannot return them to the 
Warehouse. The only thing you can do with them is add them 
to your ship. When you add one of them, you have room to set 
a new component aside, but you can never have more than 
two set aside at one time. If you set aside a component and 
then fail to add it to your ship, you leave it in your discard pile. 
It counts against you at the end of your trip as a component 
lost along the way.
No one cares that the components are still lying there 
at the launch site, nor that this junk is only worth 
a fraction of the penalty Corp Inc. charges you for 
losing it. A contract is a contract.
ALIENS 
Life Support Components 
 So what are those funny components that we 
refused to explain earlier? The orange and purple 
components are life support systems for aliens. 
 In order for the life support system to have any 
effect, it must join with a cabin. This makes the 
cabin inhabitable by aliens of the corresponding 
color. (But you can’t put an alien in your starting 
component, the pilot cabin.) Humans, in white 
space suits, don’t need any special life support 
components, and can go in any cabin.
Placing the Crew 
Crew figures are placed according to the following rules:
 
 The pilot cabin gets 2 humans. (Neither of these is “you”. 
But they will be your close roommates on a long voyage, 
so after a while you might start thinking they are you.)
 
 A cabin that is not joined to a life support system gets 
2 humans.
 
 A cabin joined to a life support system gets 2 humans or 
1 alien of the corresponding color.
 
 A cabin joined to one life support system of each color gets 
either 2 humans or 1 purple alien or 1 orange alien.
 
 Your ship can have no more than 1 alien of each color.
Possibilities for placing crew.
Players decide how to place their crew one at a time, starting 
with the player with tile 1.
Players decide how to place their crew one at a time, starting
with the player with tile 1.

Alien Abilities 
Aliens are crew members and are counted as such in a 
Combat Zone or an Abandoned Station. You can send them 
away on an Abandoned Ship or give them up to Slavers.
The disadvantage of taking an alien on board is that it takes 
up the space of two humans. But, of course, there are some 
advantages.
 Purple aliens are a war-like species. If you have a 
purple alien, you get +2 to cannon strength. (If your 
cannon strength without the alien is 0, you don’t get 
this bonus. It’s not going to fight a space battle with 
its bare teeth.)
 Orange aliens are good mechanics. If you have an 
orange alien, you get +2 to engine strength. (If your 
engine strength without the alien is 0, you don’t get 
this bonus. It’s not going to get out and push.)
Hits on Life Support Systems 
If your ship loses a life support system and this leaves an alien 
in a cabin that can no longer support it, return the alien to the 
bank. (It leaves in an emergency escape pod, of course.)
SHIP BUILDING MISTAKES 
If you find that you have added a piece illegally, there is nothing 
you can do (unless you just put it there and have not picked 
up a new one). The problem will be dealt with during the spot 
check, before launch.
Spot Check 
The penalty for an illegal ship is much harsher in the full 
game. During the spot check, make sure that your ship is built 
according to the rules. If your ship is in violation, you have to 
remove one or more components so that the result conforms 
to the rules. This does not count as extra building (you keep 
your number tile) but you can’t add any new components. The 
removed pieces are placed in the pile of components lost 
along the way. You will have to pay a penalty for them when 
you reach your destination.
This ship has a mistake. To fix it, the player must remove 
either the cabin or the battery. He wants to put an alien in the 
cabin, so he removes the battery. When he does so, he also 
loses one of the engines. Both components are placed in his 
discard pile on his ship board.
Flaws Discovered During Flight 
If someone discovers that your ship is illegal in flight (any time 
after the first adventure card has been revealed) you must 
immediately correct the mistake as described above and pay 
1 cosmic credit to the bank for violating the laws of physics.
ADVANCED ENEMIES 
In the full game, you will also encounter Pirates and Slavers. 
When you defeat them you don’t gain goods; you gain cold, 
hard cosmic credits. Move your ship back the indicated 
number of empty spaces and take the credits from the bank. 
If you don’t want to lose flight days, you can choose not to take 
the credits (or goods in the case of Smugglers) and leave your 
ship where it is. Either way, no other player may collect the 
reward once the enemy has been defeated.
If the Slavers defeat you, they force you to 
give up some of your crew. You choose 
which humans or aliens to surrender in 
exchange for your own freedom.
 If the Pirates defeat you, your ship gets shot 
at. (The card indicates the size and direction 
of the cannon fire.) Keep track of all the 
players who were defeated and then have 
the first defeated player roll two dice to 
determine the row or column of each shot. 
This roll applies to all defeated players. 
Light cannon fire can only be stopped by a 
shield oriented in the correct direction and 
powered by a battery. Heavy cannon fire 
cannot be stopped. (See Combat Zone.)
METEORIC SWARM 
In later rounds, meteors can come at your 
ship from the left or right. Large meteors 
coming from in front of you can only be 
blown up by a forward-pointing cannon in 
column 
from 
which 
they 
are 
approaching, but large meteors from the 
side can be blown up by a cannon pointing 
toward that side in the same row or in an 
adjacent row. (The ship accelerates or 
decelerates just enough to shoot the meteor.) This doesn’t 
apply to small meteors, which are too small to be hit by 
cannon fire.
Most space craft are protected from meteors by 
autotargeting gun turrets, self-guided missiles, or 
disintegration ﬁ elds. Yours is protected by cannons 
made from sewer drills.

SPECIAL EVENTS 
 Each occupied 
cabin joined to another 
occupied cabin loses 
1 crew member. 
An Epidemic can strike in Round 2 or 3. This 
adventure card makes you remove 1 crew 
member (human or alien) from every 
occupied cabin that is joined to another 
occupied cabin. The safe thing to do is to 
build your ship so that no two cabins are 
joined. If you do have connected cabins, you 
can try to empty one of them before the 
epidemic strikes. (It is very helpful to know if 
Epidemic is among the adventure cards for that round.)
 The player with the 
fewest crew members 
loses 1 ship component 
at random. (Roll for it. 
If 3 rolls fail to select a 
component on the ship, 
the saboteur gives up.) 
Sabotage can occur in Round 3. This 
adventure card blows up a random 
component on the ship with the smallest 
crew. (If multiple ships are tied for smallest 
crew, the one in front is sabotaged.) To 
select the component, the affected player 
rolls 2 dice to determine the column and 2 
dice to determine the row. If there is no 
component at those coordinates, roll again 
for new coordinates. If there is no component there, roll 
again. If three sets of coordinates are rolled without hitting a 
component, the saboteurs give up and nothing happens.
If the saboteurs blow up a component, it is set aside as lost in 
flight, as are any others that fall off as a result of this loss. A 
hit to the center of the ship can be devastating.
GIVING UP 
In the full game, you might have to give up before you reach 
your destination. Sometimes you might even choose to give 
up. Fortunately, you can always find a Corp Inc. warehouse 
nearby.
If you give up:
 
 Remove your marker from the game board. You are just a 
spectator for the rest of the round and none of the cards 
can affect you.
 
 You don’t get any bonuses for the order in which you 
finished (because you didn’t finish, obviously). When giving 
bonuses for the ship with the fewest exposed connectors, 
your ship does not count.
 
 You do get to sell your goods, but only at half the total 
price. Add up the total full sale price of all your goods and 
take half that many credits. (Round up.)
 
 You have to pay the penalty for the components you 
lost along the way. (Anything you haven’t lost yet can be 
returned to Corp Inc. without penalty, so only pay for 
those in your discard pile. Don’t forget that there is a limit 
to how big your penalty can be.)
If you are the only one left after everyone else has given 
up, you can keep going and try to go through the remaining 
adventures by yourself. In this case, ignore the Combat Zone 
and Sabotage adventures (which penalize the player with the 
fewest engines, cannons, or crew members).
Losing All Humans 
You have to give up if an adventure card leaves you without any 
humans on board. (Aliens can’t run the ship by themselves.) 
This could be due to taking a hit that destroys your last occupied 
cabin, to losing crew after encountering a Combat Zone or 
Slavers, or to voluntarily sending your last crew member off 
on an Abandoned Ship. If this happens in a Combat Zone, you 
cannot withdraw your ship from the race until all effects of 
the card have been dealt with.
Open Space without Engines 
Thanks to inertia, your ship can finish the journey even 
without engines as long as you don’t encounter Open 
Space. When confronted by an Open Space card, you have 
to give up if your engine strength is zero (which could be 
due to having no engines or to having only double engines 
and no battery power left). Don’t forget that the orange 
alien does not add to your engine strength when you have 
none to begin with.
Getting Lapped 
If the leader laps you (i.e., you are more than 1 full circle 
behind) you must give up.
Choosing to Give Up 
Sometimes, it might be better to give up and cut your losses. 
You can decide to give up, but you must do so before the next 
adventure card is revealed. (If you decide to give up after 
seeing an adventure card, you must suffer through that 
adventure first.)
rice. Add up the total full sale price of all your goods and
take half that many credits. (Round up.)

SHORTER GAME 
With experienced players, a full game usually takes about an 
hour. For a shorter game, you can just play one or two rounds. 
It is up to you whether to leave out the shorter rounds or the 
longer rounds.
ROUND 3A 
Experienced players can make the game longer and more 
challenging by playing an extra round. The extra round is 
played according to the Round 3 rules using ships of Class 
IIIa. (You may have noted that this board has no discard area. 
You can just keep your discarded components beside your 
board. These ships are uninsurable, so you must pay for every 
component you lose. There is no maximum penalty.)
You can also leave out Round 3 and just play 3a.
MORE FORESIGHT 
If you have good memories and like planning ahead, use the 
following rules:
Don’t mix up the three stacks of adventure cards. Don’t 
change their order when you look at them during building. 
Don’t shuffle them together once everyone is done building. 
Instead, just stack them neatly on top of each other and put 
the fourth stack (with cards no one has seen) on the bottom. 
Now you know what will happen and when (except for the last 
set of cards).
TEAM PLAY 
After playing several games, you will find yourself becoming 
much swifter at grabbing tiles and building your ship. This can 
cause problems when introducing new players to the game. 
The final timer will run out before they are done building and 
they will have worse ships than they would have if they were 
just playing against each other. It’s not much fun to fly through 
space in a half-built ship. Team play can help fix this problem.
This variant is for four people. The most experienced player 
should be partnered with the least experienced player, and the 
remaining two players form the other team. Partners should 
sit across from each other. The game is played according to 
the usual rules with two exceptions:
1. Partners keep their cosmic credits together in one pile.
2. After building, you fly your partner’s ship.
The beginner will see what it is like to fly a well built ship and 
you can nostalgicly re-live your first space flights, when it was 
a great accomplishment just to get to the finish. Your partner 
will get better quickly. The desire to build you a good ship 
can be better motivation than the struggle to keep up with 
experienced players in a standard game.
Team Play for 
Experienced Players 
Team play can be fun for experienced players. It adds new 
tactical elements, such as deciding whether it is better to use 
an opportunity yourself or to leave it for your partner.
You can just play as described above or you can use this 
shared ship building rule: When the timer is moved from one 
numbered circle to another, the player who does so calls out 
“switch”. Each player must move to the opposite side of the 
table and build on the ship his or her partner was working 
on. There is no switch when the timer is moved from circle 
1 to the “Start” circle, so you will not switch during building in 
Round 1. You will switch once in Round 2 and twice in Round 
3. After building, you switch one more time to go fly your 
partner’s ship, as you do in standard team play (so you will still 
get your exercise even in Round 1).
You will have to find your bearings quickly to be able to figure 
out what your partner was working on and what the ship needs 
for completion. The resulting ship will truly be a team effort.
Your goal was to make money, and you did. 
So what if some other jokers made more? 
Of course, the player who has the most credits is a bit more 
of a winner than everyone else.
V A R I A N T S 
T H E W I N N E R S 
The game ends after Round 3, once all the rewards have been collected and all the 
penalties paid. Add up all your cosmic credits. If that number is 1 or more, you win!

What if I don’t have enough credits to pay 
my penalty at the end of a round?
Just return all your credits to the bank. You will start the next 
round (if there is one) with zero.
Yes, we did say you would be up to your ears in 
debt. That was just to scare you. The truth is that 
the science of bankruptcy is advancing faster than 
subquantum physics. Because of the number of ways 
to hide money in accounts belonging to your children, 
your spouses, and your clones, there is no way you 
can ever be in debt.
What if I am the first to finish building, but 
I don’t want to start out in front?
When you are done building, you can take any of the remaining 
numbers. If the first player to finish does not take tile number 
1, it will be there for someone else to take.
Can I decide not to use a simple engine or 
simple cannon?
No. Simple motors, simple cannons, and bonuses for aliens 
are always added in. The only thing you can decide is whether 
to use a double engine or double cannon (and pay 1 battery 
token for it). (Similarly, you decide whether to use shields.)
Can I shoot a big meteor with a cannon in 
the middle of my ship?
Yes. Your cannon must be pointed in the right direction and 
be in the same column as the meteor (against a big meteor 
coming from ahead) or in the same row or one of the two 
adjacent rows (against a big meteor coming from the side). 
Of course, the square in front of the cannon’s barrel must be 
empty; otherwise it is an illegal ship.
What if I have exposed connectors inside 
my ship? 
If your ship has a hole in the middle, connectors adjacent to 
the hole still count as exposed connectors. They are protected 
from meteors, however, because the meteor will strike the 
first component in the given row or column.
Can I decide which block, figure, or token 
to give up? 
Yes. When forced to discard goods, you must discard the 
most expensive ones first, but when choosing between two of 
the same color, you decide. When giving up crew, you decide 
whether to give up aliens or humans and which cabins they 
will come from. Similarly, you decide which batteries to use. It 
is recommended to first use up the parts of the ship you are 
most likely to lose.
Can I re-arrange goods, crew, and batteries 
at any time? 
No. The only things you can re-arrange are goods, and these 
can only be re-arranged when you gain new ones.
What if the bank runs out of goods? 
If the bank runs out of goods of the type you are supposed 
to load, you are out of luck. You don’t get them. On planets, 
players should load goods in order, starting with the leader. 
(If one player discards goods during loading, the discarded 
goods will be available for the players who load after.)
What if the bank runs out of crew figures 
or battery tokens?
In this case, look under the table. There should be enough 
crew figures to fill every cabin and enough battery tokens to 
fill every battery. (If you find there are not enough aliens to go 
around, that might be because you forgot that your ship can 
only have one alien of each type.)
Can I tell you how much I like this game? 
Yes. 
The 
best 
place 
for 
this 
is 
website 
http://www.GalaxyTrucker.com. You can also go there to find 
other questions, answers, ideas, and expansions.
F A Q 
A Game by Vlaada Chvatil
Game & box cover art: Radim “Finder” Pech
Rulebook Illustrations: Tomáš Kučerovský
Typesetting and graphic design: Filip Murmak
Translation: Jason Holt
Main playtester: Petr Murmak
Playtesters: Monča, Rumun, Ese, Yuyka, Peťa, Karel, 
Me2d, Gekon, Vazoun, Citron, Wild and many others 
from Brno Boardgames Club, Jirka, Petr, Martina and 
many others from Paluba Club, karel_danek, Ládínek, 
Květa, Marcela, Evička, Lenka, Rychlík, Plema, Marťušák, 
Opičák, Trpaslík, Davee, George, Herby, dilli, Patrik and 
many others from all the Bohemia, Moravia and Slovakia. 
Thanks.
© Czech Games Editon, October 2007.
http://www.CzechGames.com