Contents
• 186 conspirator cards, consisting of six sets of cards in six colors with 31 
cards in each set. Each set has the same conspirator cards.
The images of the people on the card backs have no game meaning.
Who will wear the crown?
Kardinal
Kardinal
 Alone: 5, 
together with Juliet: 15
• 36 Goal cards, 6 cards per discipline (alchemy, fencing, agriculture, 
commerce, religion, and music) with the respective values of 1, 2, 3, 3, 4, 5
• 1 Crown Card
• 6 reference sheets
E
ach player has the same set of conspirators in this competition to score points by 
winning goal cards. The players can employ Alchemists, Fencing Masters, Kings, 
Queens and others for their raw power. They can also employ others such as Beggars, 
Wizards, Witches, Traitors, and even the 3 Musketeers for their power and special 
abilities to influence the outcome of the various goal card competitions.
Kings have the most power, but no special abilities! So, players should carefully
choose when to employ their most powerful conspirators. The game is played over six
rounds for several goal cards in each round. Each goal card has a certain value, but 
players can double their scores by winning goal cards in all 6 areas. Planning is crucial. 
The highest sum of goal cards wins.
Crown
Crown
 You may have 1 extra card in hand as 
long as you have the crown. 
Value at game end: 3 influence.

Playing the game
The game is played over 6 rounds. At the beginning of each round turn over the 
top goal card in each stack: 1 for each player (e. g. 4 cards for 4 players). Leave 
room under each goal card for players to place conspirator cards. The players 
choose a starting player and they start the game:
with value 10 or higher. Two or more 
Juliet
Juliet
1414
Doppelgänger
Doppelgänger
Takes the value of the card 
below it in the column.
X
with Value 10 or higher. Two or more 
Small Giant
Small Giant
The value of the Small 
Giant is increased by 3 for each other 
conspirator in this column.
Example of a 4-player game after a few rounds 
columns with goals and conspirators cards
Player supply deck, 
player hand, and 
player discard pile 
for two players.
Places,
which must be
filled with
conspirators
to “complete” the above goal cards and
end the round (see below).
Player supply deck, 
player hand, and 
player discard pile for 
two players.
Alchemist
Alchemist
 Alone: 5, 
together with Juliet: 15
Removes the conspirator that
revealed the Assassin.
91 291 2
Traitor
Traitor
Swap the goal card in
the column with that in another.
1010
Storm
Storm
Column is closed and
considered fulfilled.
Beggar
Beggar
 Lowest sum wins the
goal card in this column.
Removes the conspirator that
revealed the Assassin.
91 291 2
3 Musketeers
3 Musketeers
Remove the talents of
all conspirators in this column. 
1111
Preparation
Each player takes a set of 31 conspirator cards in one color. Each player shuffles 
their set of cards and places them face down as a supply deck in their play area 
(the area before them on the table). Each player draws 3 cards from their stack 
as their starting hand, which they keep secret from the other players. Next, 
shuffle the 36 goal cards and create a row of face down piles of 6 cards in the 
middle of the table equal to the number of players (e.g. with 3 players: 3 stacks of 
6 cards, with 5 players, 5 stacks of 6 cards). Place the Crown near the goal cards.
Place the remaining goal cards back in the box – they will not be used in this 
game.
Playing a round
On a player’s turn, they must place one conspirator card from their hand face-down at 
the bottom empty space in the column of their choice. If there is a face down card 
above the card they place, the player turns the previously placed card face-up, 
regardless of its color. If the card turned over has an effect, it is executed immediately. 
If it has a talent, it is executed at the end of the round in initiative order. These effects 
and talents are explained in detail on the separate overview of the conspirators.

Example 1: Assignment of the 
Goal cards: 
Red’s sum is 14 because the 
Fencing Master matches the 
goal type, but Blue and White 
tie with the highest sum (16). 
As Blue’s card is closer to the 
goal card than White’s, Blue 
wins the goal card.
1616
1616
Example 2: Assignment of the 
Goal cards: 
The White wizard uses his 
special ability to remove the 
Blue king and, thus, Red 
wins the goal card with the 8 
point Cardinal over White‘s 
7 point Wizard.
King
King
2020
with value 10 or higher. Two or more 
Afterwards, the player draws 1 card from their supply deck. If their supply deck is 
exhausted, they shuffle their discards and place them face down as their supply deck.
Then the next player in clockwise order takes their turn. The game continues in this 
way until the end of the round.
End of a round
A round ends when all goal cards have been completed. A goal card is complete,
when there are at least as many conspirator cards in its column as the value shown on
the goal card (see examples below). Players may place conspirator cards below already
completed goal cards, so it is possible that it can take a long time for all goal cards to
be completed. As soon as all goal cards are complete the round ends. Turn over all 
face-down cards. Actions that would have been triggered upon turning cards over are 
not done. Then, in initiative order, all cards with initiative resolve their effects, one 
column at a time.
Now the goal cards are distributed. Each column is considered separately. The players 
sum the values of their conspirator cards in the column and the player with the largest 
sum in a column wins the goal card for that column. If players tie with the largest sum, 
the player among them with a card closest to the goal card wins the card.
The players take the goal cards they won and place them face down in their play areas. 
After the goal cards are distributed, the players take their used influence cards and 
place them in their discard piles. Then, the players turn over the appropriate number of
goal cards for the next round. The new round begins with the player to the left of the 
player who played last in the just-completed round.
Squire
Squire
talent: Wins the goal card
when together with the Prince.

Variant for 2 players
The game can also be played as a duel. The 2-player variant is the same as the 
basic version with an exception. The game is played with three sets of goal cards 
instead of two. At the beginning of each round, turn over three goal cards and 
play according to the basic rules.
Author: Lutz Stepponat
Editor: Martin Jörg
Developer: Marcus Lange
Illustration: Julien Delval
Graphic Design and Layout: Christof Tisch
Proffreading: Christof Tisch und Marcus Lange
Printed in Germany
Scoring example
End of the game
The game ends after all goal cards have been distributed at the end of the 6th 
round.
The players count the points on the goal cards they have won in the game. There 
are two possibilities:
– The players sum the points on all goal cards they won (see example Sarah).
– If a player has goal cards from every discipline, they sum the points on 6 cards, 
one from each discipline, and double that sum. Then, from this doubled sum, 
subtract 1 point for each remaining goal card they have won (see examples for 
Isabelle and Leonardo). The owners of the Crown and Gold cards each score 3 
additional points.
The player with the most points wins the game.
Leonardo
Isabelle
Sarah
= 13 X 2 = 36
= 15 x 2 = 30
- 1 = 29
= 20