RULES 
From the heart of the Orient, comes Gang of Four™ - a fun and exciting
card game that conveys all the mystery, intrigue and power of ancient
China. Descended from Choh Dai Di, the most infamous of backstreet Hong
Kong gambling games, Gang of Four is the most popular card game to
emerge from Asia in decades.
Conceived in China during the upheaval of the Cultural Revolution,
Gang of Four embodies a never-ending struggle for power - where the
weak perish and the strong dominate. Good players, like good politicians,
must show cunning, flexibility and ruthlessness.
Filled with an endless variety of strategies and tactics, Gang of Four is
fun, entertaining and full of surprises, yet is simple to learn and play.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of the game is to dispose of all the cards in your hand before
any of your fellow players get rid of theirs. After one player has no more
cards, the hand is finished and points are assessed by counting the
number of cards in the remaining players’ hands. Play continues until one
or more players reaches a total of 100 points and the game is over. The
player with the lowest total number of points is the winner.
CONTENTS
64 card deck
1 rules booklet
1 score pad 
The deck is composed of 64 cards as follows:
Sixty cards ranked 1-10 (two of each in the three colors, Green, 
Yellow and Red)
One multi-colored 1
Two Phoenix (one Green, one Yellow)
One Red Dragon
PLAYING THE GAME
Four players
Deal the entire deck to the four players (16 cards per person). It is
recommended that you sort your hand by rank (1-10, Phoenix, Dragon)
and color (green, yellow, red) within each rank before starting to play.
Three players
To play with three players, deal 16 cards to each player, plus a separate
set of cards to be set aside as a “dummy” hand that does not get played.
Once each hand is over, shuffle the dummy hand back into the deck and
re-deal. At the beginning of the game, if none of the players holds the
multi-colored 1, the player to the right of the dealer plays first.
All other rules remain the same as in the four player game, although
strategies may differ because not all cards will be in play.
Beginning Play
At the beginning of play, the player with the multi-colored 1 starts by
playing a combination of one to five cards, which must include the multi-
colored one. (This is only true for the first hand of the game. In succeeding
hands the winner of the previous hand always plays first.)
Each player then in turn, plays a combination of cards made of the same
number of cards as the opening combination in a higher rank, or passes.
The allowable combinations of cards played 
in Gang of Four are:
E SINGLE CARDS
(Yellow 3; or Red Dragon)
E PAIRS
(Red 1, Red 1; or Green Phoenix, Yellow Phoenix)
E THREE OF A KIND (Green 2, Yellow 2, Red 2; or Yellow 4, Red 4, Red 4)
E FIVE CARD COMBINATIONS 
(straights, flushes, fullhouses, and straight flushes)
• Straight
(5 cards in sequential order – such as 1,2,3,4,5, except 
a Phoenix or Dragon – of any color combination)
• Flush 
(cards of any rank – except a Phoenix or Dragon – 
all of the same color)
• Full House
(a pair, plus three of a kind)
• Straight Flush
(5 cards in sequential order – except a Phoenix 
or Dragon – all of the same color)
E FOUR OF A KIND (Green 10, Green 10, Yellow 10, Red 10) – 
the Gang of Four
A combination is of a higher rank if:
The numerical value of the cards played is higher (Green 10 > 
Red 8); 
Or the numerical value is equal, but the color value is higher
(Red 3 > Yellow 3 > Green 3); 
Or it is a five card combination of a stronger type 
(Straight Flush > Full House > Flush > Straight);
Or it is a Gang of Four, which is always wild, and beats any ranked 
card or combination of any cards at any time. 
Only a higher ranking Gang of Four, or a Gang of Five, Six or Seven (the
seven 1s) can be played on a Gang of Four.
A card cannot be played on exactly the same card (same rank and color),

or a combination played on exactly the same combination (a Green and
Yellow 2 on a Green and Yellow 2).
A player may choose to pass, even if he has cards that could be played.
All play is optional, making the timing and withholding of cards
strategically important.
This cycle of play continues until all players have passed. The played
cards are then set aside and the winner of the cycle (i.e. the last player
to have played a combination on top of the others) then opens a new
cycle by playing a new combination of cards of his choice. 
The process repeats itself until a player lays down his last card. Play
immediately stops and the remaining cards of the other players are then
counted. Points are assessed based on the number of cards remaining
in each player’s hand. If a player is left holding a large number of cards
additional penalties are given according to the Scoring Table.
Scoring Table
1 — 7 cards
– one point per card
8 — 10 cards
– double the points per card (2x)
11 — 13 cards
– triple the points per card (3x) 
14 — 15 cards
– quadruple the points per card (4x)
16 cards
– quintuple the points per card (80 points)
For example: if Player One is left holding 5 cards his score would be 5
(1x5). If Player Two were holding 9 cards his score would be 18 (2x9).
If Player Three were holding 15 cards, his score would be 60 (4x15). 
Use the Score Pad to record the number of points for each hand. You’ll
also find a copy of the Scoring Table at the bottom of the score pad. As
you can see, the key to success in Gang of Four is to avoid big penalties,
while at the same time, trying to catch your opponents with a large
number of cards.
Once the scores are recorded, the cards are shuffled and new hands
dealt and played until a player reaches 100 points. At that time, the player
with the lowest score is designated as the winner.
See the Details of Play section for additional important rules.
DETAILS OF PLAY
Exchange of cards — 
The strong get stronger, the weak weaker
At the beginning of each hand (except the first one) and before the
new hand is begun, the loser of the previous hand (player stuck with the
most cards) must give the highest card in his hand to the winner (player
who was first to dispose of all his cards). After receiving this card, the
winner then gives any card of his choice back to the loser. The exchanged
cards are both shown to everyone. 
In the case of a tie for most cards left, the player with the highest total
score in the game is required to give up his best card. If both players have
the same score, then the player closest to the winner in a counter-
clockwise circle is chosen.
Last card
When a player is down to his last remaining card, he must declare “Last
Card!”. If a player fails to do so, he is not allowed to win; that is, the hand
continues among the other players until an alternate winner is decided.
The player who failed to declare his last card adds one point to his score
total for that hand.
If a player goes out by playing a combination other than a single card (i.e.
a pair or a flush), no “Last Card” declaration is required. However, another
player can always ask any other player how many cards they have remaining.
Also, the player sitting immediately before the “Last Card” player must
play his highest-ranking single card first, if single cards are being played.
Likewise, that player must open new cycles in the hand with combinations
other than single cards (i.e. pair, three of a kind, etc…) if he can do so.
This is to ensure that an attempt is made to block the player who has
declared “Last Card” from winning the hand. These rules do not apply to
the other players unless the player immediately after them also declares
a “Last Card!”
Order of play
Unlike most western card games, the direction of play in Gang of Four
changes after each hand. The play of the hand is counter-clockwise (to
the right) in the opening hand, then alternates between clockwise and
counter-clockwise for each successive hand as indicated on the score pad.
This insures that no player is forced to consistently play after the strongest
(or weakest) player.
Learning the game - New players 
When you are first learning the game, or when introducing Gang
of Four to new players, place the two summary cards on the table
to help familiarize yourselves with the allowable combinations
and ranking of cards. 
Likewise, we suggest you visit our web site at : www.gangoffour.com
to play an on-line tutorial and browse through our tips and strategy
section to improve your game. You can even play against other
players online with the Days of Wonder Online Access Number
located on the back of these rules.

Dragon
The Dragon is the highest-ranking single card of the game,
and can only be played as a single card, not as part of a
combination of multiple cards (such as a straight or flush).
Phoenix
The two Phoenix cards are the second highest-ranking
single cards after the Dragon, with the Yellow Phoenix ranking
higher than the Green Phoenix. These cards can be played
together as the highest-ranking pair or as a pair within a full
house, but not in any other five-card combinations such as a
straight, flush, or straight flush.
Multi-colored 1
The multi-colored 1 is the highest-ranking of all 1s and can
be played on top of any other 1. Because the card includes all
colors, a player can declare this card to be whatever color he
chooses when played as part of a flush.
CHINESE STYLE OF PLAY
Choosing a dealer
In China, it is tradition that the eldest player is designated to deal the
first hand. After the first hand, the winner of the previous hand always
deals the next one.
Dealing the cards
The dealer shuffles the deck and the player to the dealer’s right cuts.
The dealer then cuts again to look at a card to determine which player
the deal will begin with. Counting himself as number one, and proceeding
counter-clockwise around the table, the dealer counts until he reaches
the number on the card. He then begins to deal with that person.
Knock/Pass
To prevent the game from dragging, it is important to remember to
pass (or “knock”) if you decline to play, since the player to your right must
wait for your response before he can play. In China, the game is fast and
furious, making “knocking” key.
Discard Pile
Unlike in Western games, discarded cards are not picked up. No one
wins and keeps discarded cards or tricks; the object of the game is to
dump the hand as fast as possible. Therefore, all cards played are left
face up in a pile in the middle of the table. Obviously, no touching or
peeking of the discards on the table is allowed!
GANG OF FOUR ONLINE
If you love to play Gang of Four, but sometimes find yourself without
playing partners, you can join other players in Gang of Four Online. At
the back of this rules booklet is a Days of Wonder Online Access Number
that includes your personal access code to sign up for online play. To use
it, simply visit www.gangoffour.com, and click on the New Player Signup
button on the home page. Then just follow the instructions to learn how
to play online.
The gangoffour.com website is filled with Gang of Four information:
online tutorials; tips and strategy hints: more on the game’s history; and
a Gang of Four forum where you can keep up with the latest game
information, rules variations, and more. 
You can also learn about other Days of Wonder games or visit us at
www.daysofwonder.com.
APPENDIX I : CARD RANK ORDER
Cards are ranked by number, color and combinations.
1. Card Number – Rank Order
2. Card Color – Rank Order
GREEN < YELLOW < RED
3. Five Card Combinations – Rank Order
Straight < Flush < Full House < Straight Flush
4. Gang of Four is the only wild card combination
Any combination < Gang of Four 
APPENDIX II : KEY RULES
1. The number of cards played must match the number of cards of the
combination in play.
2. Only a Gang of Four (or Gang of Five or Six) can be played over another
combination (single, pair, etc…).
3. When ranking cards, the number takes precedence over color.
4. The Dragon is the highest single card and must be played alone.
5. The Multi-colored 1 is the strongest 1 and can be played as the color of your
choice in a Flush.
E

GANG OF SEVEN
GANG OF SIX
GANG OF FIVE
GANG OF FOUR
Kleurenreeks
Escalera de color
Scala Reale 
Kleur
Color
Colore 
Reeks
Escalera
Scala 
Trits
Trío
Tris 
Combinatie van 5 kaarten • Combinaciones de 5 cartas
Combinazioni di 5 carte 
COMBINATIES VAN KAARTEN • COMBINACIONES
DE CARTAS • COMBINAZIONI DI CARTE 
GANG OF...
Paar
Pareja
Coppia 
Losse kaart
Suelta
Singola 
GANG OF SEVEN
GANG OF SIX
GANG OF FIVE
GANG OF FOUR
Straight Flush
Suite à la couleur
Straight
Full House
Einzelkarte
Flush
Couleur
Flush
Straight
Suite
Straße
Three of a Kind
Brelans
Drilling
Five Cards combinations • Combinaisons de 5 cartes
Kombinationen aus genau fünf Karten
CARD COMBINATIONS • COMBINAISONS DE CARTES
KARTENKOMBINATIONEN
GANG OF...
Pairs
Paires
Pärchen
Single Cards
Cartes Seules
Einzelkarte

© 2005 Days of Wonder 334 State Street, Suite 203, 
Los Altos, CA 94022
Days of Wonder, Gang of Four and the Gang of Four logo are trademarks of Days of Wonder, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
Days of Wonder, Gang of Four et le logo de Gang of Four sont des marques déposée par Days of Wonder, Inc. Tous droits réservés. 
Days of Wonder, “Gang of Four“ und das “Gang of Four”-Logo sind Markenzeichen von Days of Wonder, Inc. Alle Rechte vorbehalten.
De merknamen Days of Wonder, Gang of Four en het logo Gang of Four zijn het eigendom van Days of Wonder, Inc. Alle rechten
voorbehouden.
Days of Wonder, Gang of Four y el logotipo de Gang of Four son marcas registradas de Days of Wonder, Inc. Todos los derechos
reservados.
Days of Wonder, Gang of Four e il logo di Gang of Four sono marchi registrati dalla Days of Wonder Inc. Tutti i diritti riservati.
US Patent N° 5106100
CREDITS
Game design • Auteur • Autor • Spelontwerper
• Diseño de juego • Un gioco di
Lee F. Yih
info@gangoffour.com www.daysofwonder.com
English
2-7
Français
8-13
Deutsch
14-19
Nederlands 20-25
Español
26-31
Italiano
32-37