Rules of play
TM

Component List
• 32 Plastic Figures, including:
• 4 COG Soldiers
• 6 Drones
• 6 Wretches
• 6 Tickers
• 3 Boomers
• 3 Theron Guards
• 3 Kantus
• 1 Berserker
• 168 Bridge-sized Cards, including:
• 35 Locust AI Cards
• 27 Mission Cards (7 Missions, 3–7 cards each)
• 54 Order Cards
• 4 COG Character Cards
• 10 Enemy Cards
• 29 Special Weapon Cards
• 9 Random Weapon Cards
• 38 Mini Cards, including:
• 34 Location Cards
• 4 Reference Cards
• 7 Sheets of Punchboard, including:
• 17 Double-sided Map Tiles 
(1 large, 4 medium, 12 small)
• 8 Emergence Hole/Sealed Tokens 
• 23 Wound/Dropped Weapon Markers
• 12 Grenade Tokens
• 36 Ammo Tokens
• 2 Door Tokens 
• 2 Locked Tokens
• 1 Line-of-sight Ruler
• 1 Mission Reference Sheet
• 5 Attack Dice
• 4 Defense Dice
• 2 Clear Plastic Door Stands
Introduction
For a time, the humans of Sera knew the illusion of peace 
– until Emergence Day. The Locust horde arrived without 
warning; countless soldiers and creatures spilled forth from 
their underground hollows.
The Coalition of Ordered Governments (COG) struggled to 
fend off the subterranean threat, but their defenses were 
quickly crushed. With billions dead, humans turned their 
weapons of mass destruction on their own cities to deny the 
enemy control. 
Now the long struggle against overwhelming odds 
approaches one final, desperate stand.
Gameplay Overview
In Gears of War: The Board Game, each player controls a 
COG soldier fighting to save humanity from the Locust 
horde. At the start of the game, players collectively 
choose a mission to undertake. Each mission includes 
different objectives that players must fulfill in order to 
win the game. 
Gears of War: The Board Game is a cooperative game, 
meaning all players will win or lose the game together. 
Only by working as a team can players overcome 
the Locust horde (controlled by a deck of artificial 
intelligence cards) and win the game!

CO Character Cards
These cards list the 
starting weapons, 
ammunition, grenades, 
defense value, and special 
abilities of each COG. 
Enemy Cards
These cards list the 
defense, health, attack, 
and special abilities of 
each type of Locust.
Special Weapon Cards
These double-sided cards 
are never shuffled into 
the weapon deck. Players 
only receive these cards 
during setup (as indicated 
on their COG Character 
cards), by picking up 
dropped weapons, or by 
special Location 
and Mission cards.
Random Weapon Cards 
These cards are shuffled 
to create a deck of 
powerful weapons 
that COGs may receive 
throughout the game 
from specific equipment 
areas on the map.
Attack/Defense Dice
These dice are used to resolve 
combat. The black dice determine 
how many wounds the attack deals 
and trigger abilities. The red dice 
represent how many wounds the defender can prevent.
Component Breakdown
CO Fi ures
These red figures represent the 
player-controlled characters in 
Gears of War: The Board Game. 
They are placed on the map to 
mark the current location of 
each player’s character.
Locust Fi ures
These gray figures represent the 
enemies in Gears of War: The Board 
Game. They are placed on the map 
to mark the current location of 
each member of the Locust Horde.
Locust AI Cards
These artificial intelligence 
(AI) cards control the actions 
of the Locust figures. 
During each player’s Locust 
Activation step, the player 
draws one of these cards and 
resolves it (see page 10). 
Mission Cards
These cards show the setup 
instructions, special rules, 
and objectives for each 
mission. The number of cards 
for each mission varies based 
on the complexity and game 
length of that mission.
Order Cards
These cards are the main 
way players can act during 
their turn. They often allow 
the player to move and/or 
attack with his figure, and 
can also be discarded for a 
variety of effects. The number 
of Order cards in a player’s 
hand also tracks the amount 
of health his COG has (see “Heal Step” on page 9).

Grenade Tokens
These tokens are placed on each 
player’s Bolo Grenade card. 
They track how many grenades 
he has at his disposal.
Ammo Tokens
These tokens are placed on each 
Weapon card held by a player to 
track how many times he can unload 
the clip of each of his weapons.
Door Tokens 
These tokens must be inserted 
into the included plastic stands 
before playing the game. 
The tokens mark the exits of 
the map and indicate where 
players can go to explore the 
next level. 
Locked Tokens
These tokens are placed on top of 
Location decks, as instructed on the 
Mission Setup card. While on top of 
a deck, they mark which levels of 
the map may not be explored. 
Line-of-sight Ruler
This long cardboard ruler is used to determine which figures 
can attack each other.
Mission Reference Sheet
This sheet is used to organize 
all necessary mission 
components, including the 
Location cards, Enemy cards, 
Weapon deck, AI deck, and 
Order deck.
Location Cards
These cards are shuffled into 
decks according to the Mission 
Setup card. When a player 
explores an area, he draws 
these cards to create the map. 
These cards also list the special 
abilities of their corresponding 
map tile (if any).
Reference Cards
These small cards serve as 
reminders of useful information 
concerning turn order and 
frequently referenced rules.
Map Tiles
These tiles are used 
to create the map 
(game board) on 
which the 
main activity 
of the game 
takes place.
Emergence Hole/Sealed Tokens
These tokens are used to create 
additional emergence holes on the 
game board, or are placed facedown 
to seal existing emergence holes.
Wound/Dropped Weapon Markers
These markers are placed under 
Locust figures that are wounded. 
When a Locust figure is 
killed, he leaves a wound 
marker behind, which 
may contain a weapon 
for players to pick up.

card) along with the numbered “General” AI 
cards listed on the Mission Setup card. 
Place this deck in the appropriate space to the 
right of the Mission Reference Sheet. 
 
For example, the AI deck for the “Emergence” 
mission will include 18 cards (four “Wretch” AI 
cards, four “Drone” AI cards, four “Boomer” AI 
cards, and six “General” AI cards).
6.	 Set Up Location Decks: Create decks of Location 
cards as specified on the back of the Mission Setup 
card. Shuffle these decks separately and place the 
level 2 and 3 decks on the appropriate spaces on 
the Mission Reference Sheet. If the Mission Setup 
card has a Locked icon on the level, place a lock 
token on top of this deck. 
 
Place the level 1 deck to the side (it will be used in 
step 7). Then return the Mission Setup card to the 
game box along with all unused Location cards (after 
taking note of any special rules listed on the front).
7.	 Set Up First Level of the Map: Players set up 
the first level of the map by performing the 
I.	 Draw one card from the level 1 Location deck.
II.	 Find the map tile matching this card and place it 
on the table. If other map tiles are already in play, 
place it so that its entrance matches the map exit.
III.	 Spawn Locust figures as listed at the bottom of 
the Location card at each emergence hole on the 
map tile based on the number of players.
If there are more cards in the Location deck, repeat 
steps I through III. If this was the last Location card 
in the deck, place a door token on the exit of this 
tile. See “Map Setup Example” on page 7.
8.	 Place COG Figures on the Map: Each player places 
his COG on an entrance area (the open map edge 
with an arrow) of the first map tile placed in step 7. 
Starting with the first player, each player has the 
option of moving his figure into a cover space in his 
area (limit one figure per cover space – see page 14). 
9.	 Draw Order Cards: Lastly, each player draws Order 
cards equal to his maximum hand size (usually six). 
Each player draws six Order cards except for the 
player controlling Marcus Fenix, who draws one 
additional card.
After completing setup, the first player resolves his first 
turn of the game by following the steps listed in “Playing 
the Game” on page 9.
Setup
Before playing the game, players must perform the 
1.	 Choose First Player and COG Characters: 
Randomly choose one player to be the first player. 
Starting with this player, each player chooses a 
COG Character card.
2.	 Receive Starting Weapons, Grenades, and Ammo: 
Each player receives the Special Weapon cards 
listed on his COG Character card. He then receives 
the number of Ammo tokens (equal to the number 
of bullet icons) and Grenade tokens shown on his 
Character card and places them on the appropriate 
Weapon cards.
3.	 Set Up Order and Weapon Decks: Shuffle the Order 
cards and Random Weapon cards separately to form 
two decks. Then place them in the indicated spaces 
on the right side of the Mission Reference Sheet. 
 
Do not shuffle the double-sided Special Weapon 
cards into the Weapon deck.
4.	 Choose a Mission: Players collectively choose one 
of the seven missions provided in this game. The 
“Emergence” mission is recommend if playing 
Gears of War: The Board Game for the first time. 
 
Each mission consists of multiple stages, each 
represented by a Mission card. The number of 
stages varies from mission to mission. 
 
Take all Mission cards belonging to this mission and 
create a Mission deck, with the Mission Setup card 
on top followed by the stage 1 Mission card, then 
stage 2 Mission card, etc. Place this deck on the 
Mission Deck space of the Mission Reference Sheet.
5.	 Set Up Locust Cards and Figures: Perform the 
I.	 Find the Enemy cards listed on the Mission 
Setup card and place them on the appropriate 
spaces to the left of the Mission Reference 
Sheet (“A,” “B,” or “C”). 
II.	 Place all matching Locust figures and wound 
markers faceup to the left of the matching Enemy 
card (wound markers are explained on page 19). 
III.	Create the AI deck. Shuffle the Locust AI cards 
for each type of enemy included in the mission 
(there are four AI cards matching each Enemy 

Map Tile Breakdown
1.	 Entrance: One side of each map tile is 
that tile’s entrance. If a tile is not 
the first tile placed during setup, the 
entrance should match up to the exit of 
the previously placed tile. The entrance 
is marked with an arrow.
2.	 Area: Each map tile is split into multiple 
areas. Areas are used for movement and 
determining weapon range. They are 
separated from each other by walls, 
elevation, cover, and/or jagged lines. 
Any number of figures (both COG and 
Locust) can exist in an area at any time.
3.	 Cover Space: These circular spaces 
represent locations within an area that 
provide some protection from enemy fire 
(such as a partial wall, furniture, 
rubble, etc.). Only a single figure may be 
in each cover space at a given time. 
 
Cover is extremely important in Gears 
of War: The Board Game, as it provides 
additional defense dice that can help a 
COG or Locust figure survive an attack.
4.	 Cover Arrow: Figures that are in cover use 
the center of this arrow to trace line-
of-sight (see page 21) and determine which 
figures they can see.
5.	 Wall: These solid black lines separate areas 
and cannot be moved through or shot through.
6.	 Elevation Change: These blue lines 
separate areas and cannot be moved 
through. However, they do not block line-
of-sight for attacking.
7.	 Emergence Hole: Each map tile has at least 
one area containing an emergence hole. 
Emergence holes mark the area where Locust 
figures are placed during setup and where 
Locust figures are spawned by AI cards.
8.	 Tile Identifier: Each map tile has a 
number and letter (A on one side, and B 
on the other). This identifier matches 
a Location card and is used to set up 
the map.
9.	 Equipment: Some tiles have one area with 
the equipment icon (
), meaning that 
weapons, ammo, or other special equipment 
is present in the area. COGs can activate 
this equipment (as printed on the matching 
Location card) if in the area during their 
Order step (see page 10).
10.	Exit: The small opening on the edge of the 
map not marked with an entrance arrow is 
the exit. Each map tile’s exit either has 
a door token placed atop it or links to 
the entrance of the next map tile.

1.	Players draw the top card of the level 1 
Location deck.
2.	They then find the map tile with the 
corresponding tile identifier (in this 
case, tile 2A).
3.	Since they are playing a four-player game, 
players refer to the “4” section on the 
bottom of the Location card. This tells 
them to place 1 Locust “A,” 1 Locust “B,” 
and 1 Locust “C” figure on each emergence 
hole of this map tile. The Mission 
Reference Sheet has the “Wretch” Enemy card 
in space “A,” the “Drone” Enemy card in 
space “B,” and the “Boomer” in space “C.” 
They place 1 Wretch, 1 Drone and 1 Boomer 
figure on tile 2A’s emergence hole. Locust 
figures then enter cover (see page 14). 
 
Map Setup Example
Since Location card 2A has an equipment 
ability on it, they keep the card in play.
4.	Players then draw the next card from 
the level 1 Location deck and find the 
corresponding tile (16A). They place map 
tile 16A’s entrance so that it touches map 
tile 2A’s exit, with the outer edge of the 
tile flush with the edge of tile 2A.
5.	Players then place Locust figures in both 
areas on this tile containing an emergence 
hole (as in step 3). The Locust figures 
automatically enter cover if able.
Players continue drawing Location cards, 
placing map tiles, and spawning figures until 
the level 1 Location deck is empty. They then 
place a door on the final map tile’s exit. 

This diagram shows the setup for a four-player 
game using the Mission “Emergence.” Note that 
your map may look different, as it is set up 
randomly every game.
1.	 Map
2.	 Door Token
3.	 Location Card (only kept if it lists an 
equipment ability)
4.	 Wound/Dropped Weapon Marker Piles
5.	 Unused Locust Figures (in this case, the 
only unused figure is one Wretch)
6.	 Enemy Cards
7.	 Mission Reference Sheet
Setup Diagram
8.	 Stage 2 and 3 Location Decks
9.	 Weapon Deck
10.	AI Deck
11.	Order Deck
12.	Ammo and Grenade Token Pool
13.	COG Figures (on start space)
14.	First Player’s Starting Weapon Cards 
(with starting ammo and grenade tokens)
15.	First Player’s Character Card
16.	Locust Figures (spawned on the map)
17.	First Player’s Hand of Order Cards

Order Card Breakdown
1.	Reaction Ability Icon: Order cards can be 
discarded as reactions to certain events. 
This icon displays whether this card can 
be used to dodge, follow, or guard. See 
full details on page 24.
2.	Card Name: These names differentiate the 
types of Order cards from each other. 
The name has no gameplay effect. 
3.	Actions: Order cards are usually played 
during the COG Order step to resolve the 
bulleted abilities (actions) listed here. 
When a player uses this card, he may 
use any/all of the actions listed here. 
He must completely resolve each chosen 
action, and he can only perform actions in 
the order listed on the card. 
4.	Player Restriction: Some cards list “2+” 
in the corner to signify that their actions 
are more useful when playing with 2 or more 
players. If a player draws one of these 
cards while playing a solo game, he may 
return it to the game box and draw a new 
Order card. See “Solo Rules” on page 30.
After a player draws the last card of the Order deck, he 
shuffles the discard pile to form a new Order deck.
Example: It is the start of Dominic Santiago’s Heal step. 
Since he has five Order cards in his hand, he only draws 1 
Order card. If the player was controlling Marcus Fenix, he 
would instead draw 2 cards (since Marcus’ hand limit is 7). 
He then proceeds to his COG Order step.
Playing the Game
The game is played over a number of turns until either 
the players have completed all mission objectives or all 
COG soldiers are bleeding out (see “Winning the Game” 
on page 11). 
The first player begins the game as the active player 
(the active player is the one currently resolving his turn). 
During the active player’s turn, he performs the following 
steps in order:
1.	 Heal Step: The active player draws up to two Order 
cards without exceeding his hand limit (normally 
six cards). See full details below. 
2.	 COG Order Step: The active player chooses 
one Order card from his hand and discards it to 
perform one of the following:
• Resolve the actions printed on the card.
• Move up to two areas.
• Perform one attack.
During this step, the player may also discard 
additional cards from his hand to take special 
actions, including reviving a COG soldier, 
activating equipment, and picking up dropped 
weapons. See full details on page 10.
3.	 Locust Activation Step: The active player draws the 
top card of the Locust AI deck and resolves it (see full 
details on page 10). This card usually allows certain 
Locust figures to move, attack, and/or spawn. 
 
After resolving this step, the player to the left of the 
active player becomes the new active player and 
performs his turn (starting with his Heal step).
Turn Details
This section lists detailed instructions for each step of a 
player’s turn.
1.	 Heal Step
During this step, the active player may draw up to two 
Order cards. A player cannot ever exceed his hand limit 
(normally six cards). 
This step is important because a COG soldier’s health is 
equal to the number of cards in his hand. When a COG 
player with zero cards in hand is wounded, his figure is 
laid down to show it is bleeding out (see page 21).

3.	 Locust Activation Step
The active player draws the top card of the Locust AI deck 
and resolves it. Most of these cards have a requirement 
on them, meaning that if a certain condition is true, 
Locust figures will perform one type of action, and if 
false, Locust figures perform a different action.
Many Locust AI cards allow Locust figures to move (see 
page 15) and/or attack (see page 16).
If the AI card uses the word “you,” it refers to the active 
player. Other cards refer to the closest COG, meaning the 
COG figure that is the least amount of movement away 
from the Locust figure being activated. If multiple Locust 
figures are being activated, the active player decides the 
order in which they act (see “Locust Decisions” below).
After resolving the card, discard it faceup next to the 
Locust AI deck.
Important: Many AI cards instruct the player to draw a 
new AI card if certain criteria are fulfilled. This will usually 
happen if there are no figures in play of the listed type.
2.	 COG Order Step
During this step, the active player must play 1 Order card 
from his hand, discarding it to perform one of the following:
• Resolve the action(s) listed on the card. The first 
bullet point on the Order card must be resolved 
before the second, and so forth. All of the actions 
on the Order card do not need to be resolved, but 
any actions taken must be performed in order.
• Move up to two areas, ignoring all actions printed 
on the card.
• Perform one attack, ignoring all actions printed on 
the card.
Playing an Order card during this step is mandatory. 
Note: Order cards that allow the active player to choose a 
COG figure in his area may be used on his own figure. 
Special Actions
Before or after resolving each action on his Order card, 
the player may discard a card from his hand to perform 
one of the following special actions:
• Revive a COG figure in his area that is bleeding out 
(see page 21).
• Pick up a dropped weapon marker in his area (see 
page 20).
• Activate his area’s equipment (if an equipment icon 
is present). He then follows the equipment ability 
listed on his map tile’s Location card.
The active player may resolve each of these special 
actions once per turn, discarding one card for each one 
he resolves. 
Example: During Dominic Santiago’s COG Order step, he first 
decided to discard one Order card from his hand to revive 
Marcus Fenix, who is bleeding out in his area. He then plays 
one Order card from his hand and performs the first action 
on it (which allows him to move 2 areas). After moving his 
figure both areas, he decides to discard another Order card 
from his hand to activate his areas equipment, which gives 
him some ammo tokens. Finally, he resolves the last action 
on his Order card, which allows him to attack. After resolving 
the attack, he proceeds to his Locust Activation step.
Players may not perform special actions in the middle of 
resolving an Action. For example, if an Order card’s action 
allowed a COG to move two areas, he could not move one 
area, revive a COG, and then move the second area.
Locust Decisions
Since all Locust movement and attacks are 
dictated by AI cards, there is occasionally 
more than one valid action. For example, an AI 
card may instruct a Drone to attack the closest 
COG when two COG figures are equidistant. 
Whenever this occurs, the active player chooses 
which of the valid targets is attacked.
These same rules are followed when moving 
Locust figures. The active player may choose 
which area the figure moves into as long as 
he follows the instructions on the AI card. 
When multiple Locusts are moving and/or 
attacking, each figure’s entire activation is 
resolved one at a time (as chosen by the active 
player). Locust figures cannot attack COGs who 
are bleeding out.

possibly attack. If there are zero Wretches 
on the map, new Wretches would spawn as 
specified in the otherwise ability.
3.	Otherwise Ability: If the restricted 
ability cannot be resolved, the player 
instead resolves this ability. The 
otherwise ability sometimes list criteria 
under which this card is discarded without 
effect and a new card is drawn.
4.	Card Number: This unique number is used to 
identifying different AI cards.
1.	Card Trait: The top of the card lists 
whether this card is an “Event,” “For Each” 
figure of one type, or “Group” instructions 
for all Locusts of the listed type to 
fulfill. To the right of the trait is the 
type of Locust figure affected by this card.
2.	Restricted Ability: This ability is resolved 
if the listed criterion can be fulfilled. 
 
For example, with card #11 pictured above, 
if there is at least one Wretch figure 
on the map, all Wretches would move and 
There are three main traits for Locust AI cards:
• Event: These cards cause broad effects that are 
not conditional and are always resolved in their 
entirety.
• For Each: Cards with this trait are resolved once 
for each figure of the listed type in play. If there 
are multiple figures of the listed type on the map, 
the active player chooses one of them, resolves the 
effects of this card for the chosen figure, and then 
chooses another, resolving its effect. He repeats this 
until all figures of the listed type have been activated. 
 
For example, if there are two Drones in play, 
one of them may be able to fulfill the restricted 
ability, while the other one is only able to fulfill the 
otherwise ability. See full example on page 12.
• Group: Cards with this trait are resolved once, and 
often have conditions that apply to the state of the 
game. If multiple figures are able to move and/
or attack, the active player resolves them one at a 
time, choosing the order. 
After a player resolves the last card in the AI deck, he 
shuffles the discard pile to form a new AI deck. 
Locust AI Card Breakdown
Winning the Game
To win the game, players must complete all of their 
Mission cards’ objectives. Players begin the game with the 
stage 1 Mission card faceup, following any “Special Rules” 
listed on the front of the card. 
Once the “Flip When” objective is fulfilled, they read the 
story on the back of this card and resolve any effects. If 
it reads “Proceed to the next stage,” the card is discarded 
and the “Special Rules” printed on the next Mission card 
are resolved. This card remains in play until its objective 
is fulfilled.
The objective on the final Mission card lists what players 
need to do to win the game.
Players lose the game if every COG figure is bleeding out.

Resolving a Locust AI Card Example
1.	 After resolving his Order card, the 
active player needs to resolve his Locust 
Activation step. He draws the top card of 
the Locust AI deck. 
 
He draws AI card #17. There are no Boomers 
in play, so he discards the card and 
draws a new AI card (as instructed in the 
otherwise ability).
2.	 He draws AI card #13. This card specifies 
each Drone with line-of-sight to a COG 
figure attacks the nearest COG. If the 
Drone does not have line-of-sight, it moves 
three areas toward the closest COG.
3.	 He starts by activating the left-most 
Drone. Since there are no COGs in its 
line-of-sight (see page 20), it cannot 
attack and instead moves three areas 
towards the nearest COG.
4.	 After the Drone finishes moving, 
it automatically enters a cover space 
in its area.
5.	 The active player then activates the 
second Drone. There are two COGs in 
the Drone’s line-of-sight. The AI card 
specifies that the Drone should attack 
the closest COG figure, but since both 
COGs are within the same range, the active 
player chooses Marcus Fenix (who is in 
cover) as the target of the attack. 
 
After resolving this attack, all Drones 
have been activated. The active player 
ends his turn, and the player to his left 
becomes the new active player and begins 
his turn.

1.	 Players are currently at stage 1 of the 
“Emergence” Mission deck. This card’s 
objective reads “Flip When: All emergence 
holes have been sealed.”
2.	 Marcus Fenix has just used a Bolo 
Grenade to seal the final emergence 
hole on the map. 
3.	 Since the active player has completed the 
Mission card’s objective, he immediately 
flips the card over and resolves the 
ability on the back.
4.	 This card spawns 3 Boomers, 3 Drones, and 2 
Wretches at the map exit. The active player 
places the figures and then moves the Drones 
and Wretches as instructed on the card. 
5.	 He then proceeds to the next stage of the 
Mission by discarding the stage 1 card. 
The stage 2 Mission card is now on the 
top of the deck. If the players fulfill 
the objective on this card, they flip 
it over and resolve its ability (which, 
incidentally, wins them the game). 
 
Marcus Fenix then resumes his turn.
Completing a Mission Objective

Gameplay Specifics
This section lists all game rules not yet described, 
including movement, spawning, attacking, and more.
COG Movement
Many Order cards allow a COG figure to move a certain 
number of areas. To move one area, the player simply 
places his figure in any area adjacent to his current area. 
Areas are considered adjacent when they share a cracked 
dirt border. Figures cannot move through walls (solid 
black lines) or elevation changes (striped blue lines – see 
page 6). See the “COG Movement Example” below.
Figure cannot move through doors, however players 
can remove doors by exploring (see page 22). Figures 
cannot move off the map.
Figures can move into and through areas containing other 
figures (even enemy figures) without ill effect.
Taking Cover
Many areas of the map have cover spaces on them (see 
the “Map Tile Breakdown” diagram on page 6). After a 
COG figure finishes moving for the turn, the player may 
place his figure into a cover space in his area. Moving into 
cover is free and does not reduce the number of areas 
the figure is able to move. Moving out of cover is also free, 
and happens at the start of a figure’s movement.
Players should usually move their figure into a cover 
space whenever able in order to gain the defensive bonus 
(either +1 or +2 defense dice – see diagram on page 15). 
The figure does not gain this bonus if the attacker is in his 
area. Cover provides the same defensive bonus to Locust 
figures and COG figures. 
Most Enemy cards have the “Take Cover” icon on them. 
This means that figures of this type automatically move 
into cover in their area after moving or spawning (even 
after spawning during setup).
Only one figure may be in each cover space – if a figure 
is already in the space, other figures cannot enter it.
Being in cover does not restrict the player from 
performing special actions (such as activating equipment).
Figures can only enter cover when moving or spawning. For 
example, when a figure in cover is killed, other figures in the 
area may not immediately move into that cover space.
COG Movement Example
1.	 The active player is resolving an Order 
card that allows him to move up to 3 areas.
2.	 He decides to move 2 areas, right through 
an area containing 1 Locust figure. Note 
that he cannot enter the other COG’s area 
because he cannot move through a wall.
3.	 After moving, he decides to enter cover 
in his area and moves his figure onto 
the cover space. This does not require 
additional movement.

Locust Movement
Locust figures are usually moved by AI cards. The active 
player moves Locust figures according to the instructions 
on the AI card. Locust figures always move the shortest 
distance toward their destination, following the same 
rules for movement that apply to COG figures.
After concluding the Locust figure’s movement, the active 
player must move it into an empty cover space in its area 
(if its Enemy card has the take cover icon – see page 16). 
If multiple cover spaces are available, he must move 
the Locust figure into the cover space that provides the 
largest defense bonus if it were attacked by the closest 
COG figure (ignoring any COG figures in its area). 
Figures can move into and through areas containing other 
figures (even enemy figures) without ill effect.
Cover Defense Bonus
Defending figures that are in cover receive a bonus 
depending upon which side of cover the attacking 
figure is on. This is done by visualizing a straight 
border (shown below as a red line) that passes 
though the center of the white cover arrow (
).
If the attacker must trace line-of-sight (see 
page 21) through this border, the defender is 
considered to be in full cover and rolls two 
additional defense dice (which can prevent 
wounds – see page 16).
If the attacker can trace line-of-sight without 
passing through this border, the defender is 
considered to be in partial cover and rolls 
one additional defense dice.
If the attacker is in the defender’s area, 
the defender does not receive any defense 
dice from cover.
If the defender’s cover space has multiple 
cover arrows, he uses the arrow that provides 
the most cover.
Identifying Locusts
Each Mission Setup card specifies up to three 
types of Locust figures that are used during this 
mission. The card specifies what Locust types “A,” 
“B,” and “C” represent in this mission. During 
setup, the matching Enemy cards are placed on the 
Mission Reference Sheet to remember this.
Whenever a card refers to an “A,” “B,” or “C” Locust, 
players simply refer to the Mission Reference 
Sheet to find the type of figure this indicates.
In the above example, if an AI card spawned 1 
Locust A at an emergence hole, players would 
spawn one Wretch figure at the emergence hole.
Locust Spawning
Some Locust AI cards instruct the player to spawn a 
number of figures of a specific type in areas containing 
emergence holes. When spawning a figure, the player 
simply takes one figure of the correct type that is not 
currently on the map and places it in the specified area. 
If the figure’s Enemy card has the take cover ability, it is 
placed in an empty cover space in its area (see “Enemy 
Card Breakdown” on page 16).
If multiple spawning multiple Locust figures, the active 
player chooses the order in which they are spawned.
If there are not enough Locust figures of a specified type, 
players must instead spawn the most powerful figure 
type available (i.e., Spawn a “C” figure if able, otherwise 
“B” followed by “A”). If all “A”, “B” and “C” figures are in play, 
then no Locust figure is spawned. 
Locust are also spawned at emergence holes when 
setting up and exploring the map (see page 22).
Locust figures are sometimes spawned at the map exit. 
This is defined as any exit area that has a door token on it.
.
+1
Partial Cover
+2
Full Cover 
Attacker

Enemy Card Breakdown
1.	Name: This is used to identify the type 
of figure. This name matches the trait of 
four AI cards.
2.	Defense: This value is the base number 
of defense dice this type of figure rolls 
when defending.
3.	Health: This value lists the number of 
wounds that must be dealt in order to 
kill an unwounded figure of this type.
4.	Triggered Ability: This ability is used 
each time this Locust type rolls an omen 
) when attacking. 
5.	Constant Ability: This ability is always 
active, and includes restrictions or 
benefits that this type of figure must 
follow whenever applicable.
6.	Chainsaw Immunity Icon: The presence of 
this icon indicates that the figure is so 
large or heavily armored that it is immune 
to the Lancer weapon’s constant ability. 
7.	Attack: This value is the base number 
of attack dice this type of figure rolls 
when attacking.
8.	Cover Icon: The presence of this icon 
indicates that this type of figure moves 
into cover spaces after moving or spawning 
(see page 14).
Attacking
Many Order cards and Locust AI cards enable a figure 
to attack an enemy figure. When resolving an attack, 
perform the following steps:
1.	 Declare Defender: The attacker declares which 
figure he is attacking. A figure can only be attacked 
if it is within line-of-sight (see page 20). If a Locust 
figure is the attacker, the active player chooses 
the defender (following the instructions on the AI 
card and obeying any special rules on the Enemy 
Reference card).
2.	 Determine Attack Dice: The attacking COG player 
chooses one of his Weapon cards and takes a number 
of black attack dice equal to his weapon’s attack 
value (choosing either a normal or overkill attack – 
see page 17). If a Locust figure is the attacker, use the 
number of attack dice listed on its Enemy card.
3.	 Determine Defense Dice: Take a number of red 
defense dice equal to the target figure’s defense 
value (listed in the lower-left hand corner of the 
COG Character card or Enemy card). Take additional 
dice as listed below: 
• +1 red defense die if the defender is in cover 
and if the attacker is not in its area (+2 dice 
instead if in full cover – see page 15). 
• +1 red defense die for each area out of range 
(listed on the chosen Weapon card – see page 
17). Most Locust attacks have infinite range 
unless specifically listed on the Locust AI card. 
4.	 Roll Dice: The active player rolls all attack and 
defense dice. He then resolves triggered abilities 
(printed on the attacker’s Weapon card or Enemy 
card) for each omen (
) rolled (see “Weapon 
Special Abilities” on page 17). 
 
If playing with more than one player, the defending 
COG player may choose to roll his defense dice while 
the active player simultaneously rolls the attack dice.
5.	 Deal Wounds: Total the number of wounds (
) 
rolled on the black dice and the number of shields 
) rolled on the red dice. Any omens (
) rolled 
do not count as wounds (unless used to trigger an 
ability that deals wounds – see example on page 18). 
 
If more wounds than shields were rolled, the 
defender is dealt wounds equal to the difference 
(see “Dealing Wounds” on page 19). 
 
After resolving this step, the attack is over, regardless 
of whether the defender was killed or not.

Weapon Card Breakdown
1.	Name: This name is used to identify the 
type of weapon.
2.	Normal Attack Value: This value is the 
number of attack dice rolled when not 
expending ammo to attack with this weapon.
3.	Overkill Attack Value: This value is 
the number of attack dice rolled when 
performing an overkill attack with this 
weapon (expending one ammo token).
4.	Range: This value is the maximum number of 
areas away from the defending figure that 
this weapon can attack without providing 
the defender additional defense dice.
5.	Constant Ability: This ability is always 
active and includes restrictions or 
benefits that a character carrying this 
weapon must always follow.
6.	Triggered Ability: This ability comes 
into effect each time a player using this 
weapon rolls an omen (
) while attacking.
Ammo
Ammo tokens indicate full clips 
of ammunition. Most weapons 
can be fired normally without 
expending an entire clip of 
ammunition. Weapons can also 
perform an overkill attack that 
requires the player to discard 
an Ammo token. Overkill attacks 
are more powerful, but expend 
ammunition quickly. Some 
weapons (such as the Boomshot 
and Torque Bow) can only make 
overkill attacks.
Each Weapon card lists two attack values below the image 
of the weapon. The number on the left (before the slash) is 
the number of black attack dice rolled for a normal attack. 
The number on the right (after the slash and next to the 
ammo icon) is the number of black attack dice rolled for an 
overkill attack. Weapons that have a normal attack value of 
zero can only make overkill attacks.
A Weapon card with no ammo tokens on it cannot be used 
to attack with either a normal or an overkill attack (unless 
the Weapon card’s ability states otherwise). Additional 
ammo tokens can be acquired from some Order cards, 
equipment (see “Special Actions” on page 10), and 
dropped weapons (see page 20).
Each player is limited to carrying four weapons (see page 
20) and each weapon can have any number of ammo tokens.
Weapon Special Abilities
There are two types of abilities found on Weapon cards: 
Constant abilities and triggered abilities.
Constant abilities are listed in italicized text and are always 
in effect. These abilities provide special options such as the 
Lancer’s ability to perform a special attack, or restrictions 
such as the limited range of the Gnasher Shotgun. 
Triggered abilities are special bonuses that may only be 
used when an omen die result is rolled (
). For example, 
when attacking with a Boomshot, all other figures in the 
target’s area are dealt 1 wound for each omen rolled. 
Triggered abilities may be used once for each omen rolled 
unless stated otherwise (see “Example of an Attack” on 
page 18).
If a triggered ability deals wounds to the target, this 
is added to any wounds rolled on the dice (and can be 
canceled by shields rolled on defense dice).
As long as a player has a Weapon card, he must always 
follow its constant ability. It sometimes restricts the 
player’s movement or attack capabilities. 
A player may discard one of his Weapon cards at any time 
(removing it from the game and returning it to the game 
box). Players may not give Weapon cards to other players.

 - 3
 = 1 Wound
1.	 The active player just finished moving and 
has chosen not to enter cover. The second 
action on his Order card allows him to 
perform one attack.
2.	 He chooses the Drone figure as his target.
3.	 He chooses his Lancer Assault Rifle as 
the weapon for this attack. He decides to 
discard one ammo token from this weapon to 
make an overkill attack. This allows him 
to roll four black attack dice as printed 
on the Weapon card. 
4.	 He determines the Drone’s defense dice by 
first looking at the Drone’s Enemy card, 
which lists a defense value of “1”. 
5.	 He adds one defense die to this because the 
Drone is in partial cover (in a cover space, 
but not behind the “full cover” border).
6.	 He adds one additional defense die because 
his enemy is three range away and his 
weapon’s range is “2” (for a total of 
three defense dice).
Example of an Attack
7.	 He rolls the four attack dice and three 
defense dice. The results are one omen 
symbol, three wounds, and three shields. 
8.	 The omen symbol activates his weapon’s 
triggered ability to deal +1 wound.
9.	 He subtracts the total number of shields 
rolled (3) from the total number of 
wounds rolled (4). Since he rolled more 
wounds, the Drone is dealt wounds equal to 
the difference (1 wound).
10.	The Drone has not been previously wounded 
and has a health value of “3” (as printed 
on its Enemy card). 
11.	Since 1 wound is less than the Drone’s 
health, he places a Drone wound marker 
under the figure. 
 
Important Note 
Since all Drone wound markers display 1 
health, the health of a wounded Drone 
does not necessarily reflect the exact 
number of wounds it was dealt.
Partial Cover
Full Cover

marker in its area. This is done by flipping its wound 
marker facedown, or if unwounded, drawing a 
new marker from the pile of unused wound markers. 
This marker is either discarded or becomes a dropped 
weapon marker as described on page 20. 
Some Locust figures do not have wound markers (such 
as Tickers) because they only have one health. A single 
wound kills this figure type, and these figures never 
drop weapons.
If a wounded Locust is dealt wounds less than the health 
listed on his wound marker, it is not killed (nor wounded 
a second time). It simply retains its wound marker until 
dealt enough damage to kill it.
Some abilities use the phrase “deal 1 wound to each 
figure in the area.” In this circumstance, each COG in the 
area is dealt 1 wound (must discard 1 Order card), and 
each Locust in the area is dealt a single wound. 
If a Locust figure is healed, its wound marker is discarded 
to the pile of unused wound markers.
Reminder: the health value listed on wound markers does 
not necessarily reflect the exact number of wounds dealt 
to the figure (see the “Important Note” on page 18).
Bolo Grenades
Bolo Grenades are weapons that follow a few special rules.
In order to attack with a Bolo Grenade, the player needs to 
discard one of his grenade tokens. Bolo Grenades never 
use ammo tokens (nor do they benefit from any Order 
cards that require ammo tokens).
When attacking with a Bolo Grenade, the attacker targets 
an area instead of a figure. The attacker rolls his attack 
dice once, and this effect is applied to all figures in the 
area as detailed below.
After the attack dice are rolled, each figure in the area 
rolls its defense dice and then takes wounds separately. 
This includes any COG figures in the area. Cover does not 
provide defense dice against Bolo Grenades, although the 
dodge reaction ability (see page 24) can be used before 
rolling attack dice.
Grenades may not be used on targets outside of their 
maximum range of two, nor can they be used to guard 
(see page 24).
Sealing Emergence Holes
The Bolo Grenade Weapon card’s triggered 
ability makes it possible to seal emergence 
holes. When this happens, the player simply 
places a sealed token on top of the emergence hole printed 
on the map tile. If the emergence hole is not printed on the 
map, discard the emergence hole token from the map. 
This area is no longer considered to have an emergence 
hole in it. When Locust figures spawn at the nearest 
emergence hole, sealed emergence holes are ignored, 
and the Locusts spawn at the next nearest hole.
Dealing Wounds
Wounding Locust Figures
Each Locust figure can only exist in one of two states: 
healthy (no wound marker under its base) or wounded 
(a single wound marker under its base). 
If a Locust figure is dealt a number of wounds that is less 
than its current health value (as indicated on its Enemy 
card), it is wounded. Place a wound marker (of the same 
Locust type) under its base. The value on the marker is 
now that Locust figure’s health.
If a Locust figure is dealt a number of wounds that equals 
or exceeds its current health value (as indicated on its 
Enemy card or on its wound marker), it is killed. Remove 
the figure from the map and place a dropped weapon 
Wounding The Berserker
The Berserker’s wound marker has two different 
health values on it. The first time it is wounded 
without being killed, the wound marker is placed 
with its higher value faceup (5). The next time 
it is wounded without being killed, this token 
is flipped over so that the lower value is faceup 
(3). The Berserker never drops weapons.
If it is dealt less than 3 wounds while heavily 
wounded, there is no effect.
As per the constant ability on its Enemy card, 
an unwounded Berserker can only be wounded or 
killed if attacked with the Hammer of Dawn 
Weapon card.

Wounding COG Figures
When a COG player is dealt wounds, he must discard one 
Order card of his choice from his hand for each wound 
dealt. This means that cards in a player’s hand not only 
provide actions that the player can perform, but they are 
also considered a player’s health.
If the player is dealt a wound, but he cannot discard an 
Order card, he is considered bleeding out (see page 21). 
A player can have zero cards in his hand and not be 
bleeding out until he is dealt one more wound. 
Line-of-Sight and Range
Locust and COG figures may only attack enemies to 
which they can trace line-of-sight (LOS). Figures have 
LOS (line-of-sight) to each other if the player can draw a 
straight line from one figure’s area to the other figure’s 
area without tracing through a black wall. Players can use 
the line-of-sight ruler to confirm LOS.
If a figure is not in cover, it is considered to be anywhere 
in its area for the sake of line-of-sight. This means that 
two figures not in cover have LOS to each other if a line 
can be drawn from any part of the area to any part of the 
other area without passing through a wall. 
If an attacking or defending figure is in cover, 
it has LOS if a line can be drawn from at least 
one of its cover space’s arrows (displayed on 
the right) to the other figure’s area or cover space arrow. 
Cover does not block LOS, but it may provide a defense 
bonus if the defender is in a cover space (see page 15) 
and restrict drawing line-of-sight (see “Line-of-Sight 
Example” on page 21).
Measuring Range
Range is measured by counting how many areas the 
figure would need to move from its current area into 
the target area. Elevation borders are treated as normal 
movement borders when measuring range and LOS. For 
example, two figures in the same space are 0 range away 
from each other. Likewise, two figures in adjacent spaces 
are 1 range away from each other. 
When a COG figure attacks a Locust that is outside the 
COG’s maximum range (listed on the Weapon card), the 
defender receives 1 extra defense die for each area 
outside of range. 
Example: Marcus Fenix is attacking with his Lancer (range 2) 
against a Drone that is 5 areas away. The Drone rolls 3 extra 
defense dice (in addition to the 1 defense on its enemy card). 
Remember that the attack would only happen if the figures 
were in LOS of each other (see above). 
Dropped Weapon 
Markers
When a Locust figure is killed, its wound 
marker is turned facedown and becomes a dropped 
weapon marker. If the back of the marker has a 
red “X,” discard it (red “X” up) next to the 
pile of unused wound markers. As soon as a pile 
of wound markers runs out, its discard pile is 
randomized and turned health value side up to 
create a new pile of wound markers.
When a COG figure is in the same space as a 
wound marker that displays a dropped weapon, 
he may pick it up immediately before or after 
resolving an action from his Order card. To 
do so, he simply discards one Order card from 
his hand, discards the token (weapon side up) 
next to the pile of unused wound markers and 
performs one of the following:
• Pick Up Weapon: Search the Special Weapon 
cards for the weapon pictured on this 
marker. The player then places this card 
next to his other weapons and places two 
ammo tokens on it. If there are no more 
copies of this weapon available, the 
player instead receives the top card from 
the Random Weapon deck.
• Pick Up Ammo: If the player already 
has a Weapon card matching this token, 
he instead gains two ammo tokens for 
this weapon. This applies to whenever a 
character would receive a second Weapon 
card of the same name as one he is 
carrying.
Important Weapon Restriction: Each player is 
limited to one Bolo Grenade card and three 
other Weapon cards. 
Players may optionally discard Weapon cards 
(excluding Bolo Grenades) at any time. Discarded 
Weapon cards are returned to the game box.
Discard
Dropped Weapon

1.	 In the above example, Marcus Fenix is 
determining which Locust figures he can 
attack. 
2.	 He traces line-of-sight from his cover 
space to Drone #2’s cover space. He has 
line-of-sight, and it would gain partial 
cover if he attacked this figure (see 
page 15).
3.	 He also has line-of-sight to Drone #3, but 
it would gain the full cover bonus if he 
attacked it. 
Line-of-Sight Example
4.	 He does not have line-of-sight to Drone #4, 
because a wall is in the way (red line). 
5.	 He has line-of-sight (yellow line) to Drone 
#5, because it is not in cover and he can 
trace a line to the edge of its area.
6.	 If Augustus Cole was attacking, he could 
attack any four of the Drones. He can even 
see Drone #4 because he can trace a line 
from the edge of his area to the Drone’s 
cover space without passing through a wall 
(blue line).
Bleeding Out
When a player has zero Order cards in his hand and his 
figure is dealt a wound, the figure is now bleeding out. The 
figure is laid on its side to mark this, and it is moved out of 
cover. At the start of his turn, he may move (crawl) up to 
one area, but must then skip the Heal and COG Order step 
of his turn. He must then resolve his Locust Activation 
step as normal (regardless of whether he crawled or not). 
If all COG figures are bleeding out, the mission is failed 
and everyone loses the game.
AI cards ignore COGs that are bleeding out. Locusts 
cannot attack bleeding out figures. A bleeding out active 
player still makes all choices on the card, and if the AI 
card refers to “you,” the card instead targets any other 
COG of the active player’s choice.
Important: A player cannot draw Order cards for any 
reason while his figure is bleeding out.
Reviving a COG
A COG may revive a bleeding out figure in his same area 
before or after performing an action. To do so, he simply 
discards one Order card of his choice from his hand and 
stands the figure up.
The now-standing figure is no longer bleeding out. He is 
able to heal and resolve Orders on his turn as normal, and 
can now be the target of Locust attacks. He will have zero 
Order cards in his hand until his next Heal step unless a 
card or ability allows him to draw more Order cards.
X

He then places the Location card next to the map 
tile. The card contains important information 
concerning enemy spawning and any equipment on 
the map tile.
3.	 Set Up Locust Figures: Next, the player spawns 
Locust figures on the newly placed map tile. In 
order to do this, he simply looks at the Location 
card and references the number of players at the 
bottom. He then spawns the listed figures at each 
emergence hole on this map tile. After spawning 
Locust figures, the Location card is discarded 
unless it has an equipment ability listed on it. 
 
Example: If playing a three-player game and the card 
reads “3: AAB,” the active player would place two 
Locust “A” and one Locust “B” (as identified by the 
Enemy cards next to the Mission Reference Sheet) 
in each emergence hole area on this tile. These 
figures will then enter cover if able (see “Enemy Card 
Breakdown” on page 16). 
4.	 Repeat: If there are still cards remaining in the 
Location deck, the player repeats steps 1 through 
3 (drawing the next Location card, placing its map 
tile, and then setting up its Locust figures).
5.	 Place Door: After all cards have been drawn from 
this deck, the player places a door token atop the 
final map tile’s exit.
Exploring the Map
At the start of the game, the first level of the map is set up 
(see example on page 7).
Some missions contain more than one level of map divided 
by a door. A COG player may explore an unlocked door in 
his area at any point during his Order step. This does not 
cost any additional movement points or Order cards.
To do so, the player removes the door token from the map 
and sets up the next level of the map by performing the 
1.	 Draw Location Card: The active player draws the 
top card of the lowest-numbered Location deck 
containing cards.
2.	 Place Map Tile: He finds the map tile matching the 
identifier on the drawn Location card and places it 
adjacent to the current room’s exit. The arrow on 
the new tile’s entrance must point away from the 
figure moving through the door. 
 
The edge of the new map tile should line up with 
the edge of the connecting map tile (see diagram 
on page 7). 
 

Exploring interrupts the active player’s turn. Once the 
steps of exploring are resolved, the player continues his 
turn, including using any unspent movement.
See “Map Setup Example” on page 7 for an example of 
exploring a level of the map.
Special Rule: In the rare circumstance that a map tile 
cannot be placed because a different map tile is in the 
way, players will need to repeat setup of this new level of 
the map. Simply remove the map tiles for this level and 
shuffle their Location cards back into this level’s deck. 
Finally, players attempt to set up this level again following 
the steps of exploring.
Locked Doors
Sometimes, the Mission Setup card will 
note that specific Location decks are locked. 
After building the Location decks, players 
place a lock token on top of each locked 
deck. Players may not explore if the 
next Location deck is locked.
Locked tokens are discarded by certain equipment 
(found on Location cards) and Mission card abilities. Once 
discarded, the player may explore this level following the 
normal rules for exploring.
Defining Levels 
and Stages
At the start of the game, Location cards are 
shuffled in up to three decks as described on 
the back of the Mission Setup card. Each of 
these decks is known as a level, and players 
can explore these later levels by exploring 
doors (see page 22).
Stages, on the other hand, refer to Mission 
cards. Players must complete the stage 1 
Mission card’s objective before proceeding to 
the stage 2 Mission card (and so forth). If 
players complete the objective of the final 
stage’s Mission card, they win the game.

Example: During the active player’s Locust Activation step, 
he draws an AI card that makes each Drone attack the 
nearest COG. Before rolling dice for the first attack, the 
defending player decides to discard an Order card with the 
dodge icon. He rolls two additional dice when defending 
against this attack. After resolving the attack, another Drone 
attacks him. Even though he has another dodge card in his 
hand, he chooses not to discard it, and therefore does not 
receive the additional defense for the second attack.
Follow 
When a COG figure is moving out of another COG’s area, 
he may discard a card with this icon to move his figure 
along with the moving COG figure. After the active player 
finishes moving, each COG who discarded a card with the 
follow icon places his figure into the active player’s area. 
A COG may follow COG figures that start in his area or 
pass through his area. If a COG is able to move multiple 
times during his turn, any figures following him move for 
the entirety of his movement and end up in his final area. 
Following COGs may take cover in their area (assuming there 
is cover available after the active player decides to take cover).
Example: During the active player’s Order step, he plays a 
card that allows him to move three areas. After declaring his 
intention to move, two other COGs in his area decide that they 
wish to follow him. They each discard an Order card with the 
follow icon. After the active player finishes moving his figure, 
each following figure is moved into his area.
Reaction Abilities
Each Order card has a reaction ability icon in its upper- 
left corner. A player may discard an Order card from his 
hand to use the reaction ability associated with the card’s 
icon (see below). Using reaction abilities make a player 
vulnerable (since a player’s hand size is also his health 
– see “Bleeding Out” on page 21) in return for a powerful 
immediate effect. 
When using a reaction ability, all actions on the Order 
card are ignored.
Guard 
A player may discard a card with this icon at any time 
during the Locust Activation step to attack one enemy 
immediately before it moves or attacks. He may even 
interrupt a Locust figure’s movement (for example, attack 
the figure after it moves out of cover, but before it moves 
toward him). He may not attack a Locust that is neither 
moving nor attacking. For example, he cannot target a 
Locust that is spawning, unless it later moves or attacks.
This attack follows all normal rules used for a COG 
attack. The player may use any weapon including his 
Lancer’s constant ability, but excluding Bolo Grenades. 
Immediately after resolving this attack, the active player 
continues resolving the Locust AI card.
Players are collectively limited to using one guard 
reaction ability during each Locust Activation step 
(regardless of the number of players). If multiple players 
wish to use this reaction ability, the active player decides 
which player guards.
Example: During the active player’s Locust Activation step, 
he draws an AI card that makes each Drone move two areas 
toward the nearest COG and then attack him. The active player 
moves a Drone one area toward the nearest COG (Marcus 
Fenix), who decides to interrupt this movement by discarding 
an Order card with the guard icon. He resolves an attack 
against the Drone, but fails to kill it. Since Marcus Fenix used 
the guard reaction ability, no other COGs may use the guard 
reaction ability during this Locust Activation step. The Drone is 
then moved another area and attacks Marcus Fenix.
Dodge 
+2
When a COG is attacked, he may discard a card with this 
icon to roll two additional defense dice. This must be 
done before any attack dice are rolled, and these dice are 
added to all other defense dice being rolled (from his COG 
Character card, cover, and other effects).
A player may only use one dodge reaction ability for 
each attack. 
Lancer Chainsaw
The Lancer Assault Rifle’s constant ability 
allows the COG to perform a special kind of 
attack against a Locust figure in his area. This 
ability may be used whenever the COG is able to 
attack (even from a guard reaction ability) and 
does not require spending an ammo token.
Instead of following the steps for an attack, 
the player simply rolls four black attack dice, 
and ignores all wounds rolled. If at least one 
omen is rolled, the Locust is killed.
If the COG figure is in a cover space, it is 
moved out of cover to perform this attack.
Abilities that allow the player to roll 
additional attack dice do not work in 
conjunction with this ability unless specified 
(such as Marcus Fenix’s ability).
Some Enemy cards have the chainsaw immunity icon 
), meaning that this type of Locust may not 
be targeted by the Lancer’s constant ability.

Component Limitations
In the rare circumstance that the game requires players 
to use more components than provided in the box, players 
should follow these rules:
• Tokens: If the player needs additional tokens 
(or has lost a token), he may use a suitable 
replacement (such as a coin) for any token except 
wound markers. 
 
If there are not enough wound markers available, 
first shuffle all discarded wound markers to form 
a new pool of available tokens. If there are still 
none available, the player must use a facedown 
wound marker from the map (that matches the 
Locust type).
• Figures: If the player is instructed to spawn a 
Locust figure, but all of that figure type is already 
on the map, a different Locust figure is spawned 
instead. The active player must instead spawn the 
most powerful figure type available (i.e., spawn a 
“C” figure if able, otherwise “B” followed by “A”). 
If all “A,” “B,” and “C” figures are in play then no 
Locust figure is spawned. 
 
There is no limit to the number of figures allowed 
in an area. If there is not enough physical space, 
place any extra figures off the map next to the area.
• Cards: When a card deck runs out, its discard pile 
is shuffled to form a new deck.
• Dice: There is no limit to the number of dice a 
player can roll. If additional dice are needed, simply 
roll as many as possible, record the result on a 
scrap of paper, and then roll the additional dice.
Table Secrecy
Although Gears of War: The Board Game is a 
cooperative game, it is important that all 
players at the table get opportunities to make 
important decisions. For this reason, players 
may not look at the Order cards in other 
players’ hands.
All players are free to discuss strategy as well 
as their hand of Order cards as they see fit.
Players are not allowed to look the bottom of 
wound tokens or look at cards in a deck or discard 
pile. The only exception is the Mission Deck, 
which players may look through at any time. 
Players may read the front and back of any Mission 
card at any time (as long as they do not change 
the order of cards in the deck).

China Shop
This mission starts with the COG soldiers on the run from 
the deadly Berserker. This impervious enemy is blind and 
relies on its senses of smell and hearing to detect and 
eliminate its foes.
Tip: Throw grenades to attract the Berserker away from 
your teammates and toward the doors.
• Spawning Locust C: Since there is only one 
Berserker figure, additional Locust “C” figures 
cannot spawn. If a Location or AI card would spawn 
a Locust “C”, instead spawn one Drone. If all Drones 
are in play, instead spawn one Wretch.
• Berserker Attacks: AI cards sometimes require the 
Berserker to attack each figure in its area. Such 
attacks are resolved like area attacks. The attack 
dice are rolled once and each defending figure rolls 
its own defense dice. These attacks affect both 
Locust and COG figures.
• Berserker Constant Ability: The Berserker’s 
constant ability moves it one space toward a 
COG each time the COG attacks (even when using 
a Lancer Assault Rifle’s constant ability). This 
happens immediately after resolving the attack, 
and can even happen multiple times per turn. This 
ability does not cause the Berserker to attack.
• Berserker Health Levels: The Berserker is the 
only enemy that can be wounded twice (see page 
17). The Berserker may only be attacked with the 
Hammer of Dawn (found on map tile 17A) unless it 
has already been wounded. 
Missions Specifics
This section provides an overview of each mission 
included in this game. In addition to the overview, we 
provide tips, tricks, and rule clarifications.
Emergence
Map Size: Small
This mission sends COG players into the heart of danger 
to close an emergence hole in the middle of COG territory. 
Players must work together to close this hole and keep 
the Locust horde at bay. 
This mission is recommend when playing Gears of War: 
The Board Game for the first time.
• Spawning Locust Figures: During setup, Locust 
figures are spawned before any emergence holes 
are sealed from the Mission card’s special ability.
• Grenades and Sealing: The stage 1 objective 
requires players to use a Bolo Grenade to seal the 
final emergence hole. If a player runs out of grenade 
tokens, he can use map tile 12A’s equipment. 
 
The stage 1 Mission card states that when activating 
this equipment, the Location card is not discarded. It 
may be activated again on a future turn. 
• Stage 2 Spawning: During stage 2, Locust figures 
cannot be spawned. If an AI card would spawn 
Locust figures, it is discarded (without resolving the 
card) and a new AI card is drawn. 

Roadblocks
Stranded in the town of Landown, the COGs must make 
their way through dark tunnels and bombed out streets to 
clear the way for the COG offensive. 
Tips: Interrupt Ticker movement with a guard reaction 
ability in order to destroy it while in another Ticker’s area. 
Remember to resolve each Locust move and attack before 
activating the next figure. The active player should use 
this to his advantage by choosing to activate further-away 
enemies first. 
• Setup: Take the Level 1 Location deck and place it 
next to the Mission deck. Each time a COG explores 
during stage 1, he draws a single card from this 
deck and explores it as normal.
• Stage 1 Spawning: When exploring, do not spawn 
figures based on the Location card. Instead, each 
player spawns 1 Ticker on any empty area of the 
new map tile. An area is considered empty if there 
are no figures in it. If there are no empty areas on 
the map tile, the player may spawn his Ticker in 
any area of the map tile.
• Chain Reactions: When a Ticker is killed (except after 
attacking or being killed by a Bolo Grenade), it deals 1 
wound to each figure in its area (including Locusts). 
 
Example: There are three Tickers in Marcus Fenix’s 
area and he kills one of them. It deals him 1 wound 
and deals 1 wound to each other Ticker in his area. 
Since this wound kills the other two Tickers, they also 
deal Marcus 1 wound each (for a total of 3 wounds 
dealt to Marcus).
Belly of the Beast
This mission sends the COG soldiers deep into the 
mines, searching for the ideal location to place the sonic 
resonator. This subsonic device will hopefully return a 
detailed map of the Locust hollows so that the COG can 
destroy them once and for all with the Lightmass bomb.
• Setup: This mission is unique in that there are two 
exits to the map. After setting up the first level, 
the first map tile that was placed is rotated so that 
its entrance lines up with the second map tile’s 
entrance (see example below). 
• Two Doors: During setup, two doors are placed on 
the map. The second door is placed on the exit of 
the first map tile and leads to the third level of the 
map (see example below). If an AI card spawns 
figures at the map exit, these figures are spawned 
at the map exit nearest to the active player.
COG Setup AREA
To Level 2
To Level 3

Hive
Map Size: Large
In this mission, the COG soldiers must breach Nexus, the 
Locust underground stronghold. The hope is to turn the 
offensive on the Locust and to finally confront Myrrah, 
queen of the Locust horde. Plans quickly fall apart when 
she escapes, leaving General Skorge to deal with the COGs.
Tip: If a Locust figure drops a weapon, try to pick it up as 
soon as possible. This prevents a Kantus from reviving this 
figure and provides players with much-needed ammunition.
• Kantus Resurrection: AI card #33 allows a Kantus 
figure to flip over a dropped weapon marker and 
spawn a Locust figure on top of it. If all of the 
matching figures are already in play, no figure 
is spawned. Then discard the dropped weapon 
marker from the map.
• Kantus Healing: AI card #32 moves a Kantus figure 
toward a wounded Locust figure and then heals 
it. To do so, simply discard the wounded figure’s 
wound marker to the pile of unused tokens. A 
Kantus figure cannot heal itself.
• Removing Figures from the Map: When the final 
stage removes figures from the map, discard all 
of the figures’ wound markers (excluding dropped 
weapons).
Scattered
Map Size: Large
This mission splits up COG players into two teams deep 
within the Locust hollows. One team must remotely open 
the locked door in order to bring the COGs together for 
the thrilling finale.
This scenario may only be played with two or more players.
• Map Setup: Before playing, set up level 1 and level 
2 as two separate (non-connected) maps. Players 
must then agree upon which COG characters will 
start on each map. These figures are placed on the 
entrance area of their map. 
 
If playing with three players, one COG will be on 
one map and two COGs will be on the other map. 
• Setup Spawning: When spawning Locust figures 
during setup, use the number at the bottom based 
upon the number of COG figures on that map. For 
example, if playing a four-player game, the “2” 
section of Location cards would be used for setup.
• Order Cards: Some order cards provide bonuses to 
other COG players (such as “Teamwork” and “Dig 
In”). These cards affect all COG players, regardless 
of which map they are on. 
• AI Cards: During stages 1 and 2, when a player 
resolves an AI card, it only affects figures on his 
map. For example if a player draws Drone AI 
card #13 and there are no Drones on his map, he 
discards this card and draws a new AI card. 
• Removing Figures from the Map: When the final 
stage removes figures from the map, discard all of the 
figures’ wound markers (excluding dropped weapons).

Horde Mode
Map Size: Variable
This mission pits players against increasingly difficult 
waves of enemies. Players need to kill all enemies in all 
six stages to win the game.
This mission is recommended for experienced players. 
The different difficulty settings provide a large amount of 
replayability (see “Rule Clarifications” on the right). 
Tip: If you are badly wounded, it is sometimes worthwhile 
to not kill the last enemy of a stage to provide time for 
your team to regain health.
• Difficulty Settings: During setup, players choose 
which difficulty setting they wish to use for this 
session. This choice will determine how dense 
the map is and how many new weapons will be 
available. Regardless of their choice, the map 
always consists of a single level (there is no 
exploring in this mission).
• Ammo and Grenade Pickups: Ammo and Grenade 
Location cards are not discarded after use. Instead, 
the Location card is turned facedown and may 
not be used until turned faceup by completing the 
stage’s objective.
• Waves: At the end of each stage of this mission, 
players are required to change the Enemy cards 
and AI deck as specified on the Mission card. This 
follows the same rules that players would perform 
during setup (remove all cards from the AI deck 
that do not match the “A”, “B”, or “C” Enemy cards).
• Spawning: Most Mission cards instruct the players to 
spawn Locust figures “as evenly as possible.” Players 
may spawn these figures however they wish, as long 
as they do not place a second Locust figure into the 
same area unless each emergence hole area has at 
least one Locust figure. Likewise, they cannot place 
a third figure in an area unless each emergence 
hole area has at least two Locust figures.

Credits
Game Design: Corey Konieczka
Editing & Proofreading: Kyle Ackerman, Chuck Terhark, 
and Steve Kimball
Graphic Design: Edge Studio, Adam Taubenheim, and 
Christopher Hosch
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Kyle J. Hough
Map Art: Ben Zweifel
Figure Sculpting: Benjamin Maillet
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Jaffer Batica, Bryan Bornmueller, Freekjan 
Brink, Scott Clifton, Emile de Maat, Anthony Doepner, 
Marieke Franssen, Christopher Hosch, Kyle J. Hough, 
Steven Kimball, Rob Kouba, Andrew Liberko, Jay Little, 
Lukas Litzsinger, Francesco Moggia, Richard Nauertz, 
Adam Sadler, Brady Sadler, Brian Schomburg, Arjan 
Snippe, Erik Snippe, Charlie Stephenson, Damon Stone, 
Jeremy Stomberg, Adam Taubenheim, Wilco van de Camp, 
Jason Walden, Peter Wocken
Special thanks to the employees at Epic Games for their 
input: Cliff Bleszinski, Kendall Boyd, Dana Cowley, Jeremy 
Ernst, James Golding, Chris Mielke, Chris Perna, Lee 
Perry, Rod Fergusson, Martin Sweitzer, and Matt Tonks.
© 2006-2011, Epic Games, Inc. All rights reserved. Epic, Epic Games, 
the Epic Games logo, Gears of War, Gears of War 2, Marcus Fenix and 
the Crimson Omen logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of 
Epic Games, Inc. in the United States of America and elsewhere. Board 
game mechanics and rules © 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. No 
part of this product may be reproduced without specific permission. 
Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are 
trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is 
located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 
55113, USA, and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. 
Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children 
under 36 months due to small parts. Actual components may vary 
from those shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT 
INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 12 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Visit Us on the Web 
WWW.FANTASYFLIGHTGAMES.COM
Optional Rules
This section contains variations of the rules that provide 
different gameplay experiences. Before each game, the 
players must decide if they would like to use one of the 
following variants, or a combination of both.
Solo Rules
When playing Gears of War: The Board Game alone (as the 
only player), the player controls a single COG figure. 
Some Order cards are more useful if playing with two or 
more players. If a player draws one of these Order cards 
(marked with a “2+” in the lower-right corner) when using 
this option, he may remove this card from the game at 
any time during his Order step to draw a new Order card.
The “Scattered” mission may not be played when using 
this optional rule.
When playing solo, the follow reaction ability 
 allows 
the player to discard this card and move his figure one 
additional area at any point during his Order step. He may 
only use one follow reaction ability per turn.
Insane Difficulty
This option makes the game faster and more challenging. 
When using this option, apply the following rules changes.
• When a COG is dealt wounds, the player must 
discard Order cards from his hand at random.
• Locust figures can attack COG figures that are 
bleeding out as long as they are in the same area. 
No dice are rolled, and the player is executed 
(eliminated from the game). The player no longer 
receives a turn, but an AI card is still resolved when 
his turn would have occurred. All players can still 
win the game if the other surviving players manage 
to fulfill the mission’s objective.

Index
Ammo............................................................................................. 17
Attack, Example of...................................................................... 18
Attacking.................................................................................16–19
Bleeding Out................................................................................. 21
Bolo Grenades.............................................................................. 19
COG Movement............................................................................. 14
COG Movement Example........................................................... 14
COG Order Step............................................................................ 10
Completing a Mission Objective.............................................. 13
Component Breakdown................................................................3
Component Limitations............................................................. 25
Component List...............................................................................2
Cover Defense Bonus................................................................. 15
Credits............................................................................................ 30
Dealing Wounds........................................................................... 19
Defining Levels and Stages...................................................... 23
Dodge ............................................................................................. 24
Dropped Weapon Markers........................................................ 20
Enemy Card Breakdown............................................................ 16
Exploring the Map....................................................................... 22
Follow ............................................................................................ 24
Gameplay Overview.......................................................................2
Gameplay Specifics.................................................................... 14
Glossary of Terms....................................................................... 32
Guard ............................................................................................. 24
Heal Step..........................................................................................9
Insane Difficulty........................................................................... 30
Introduction......................................................................................2
Lancer Chainsaw Ability........................................................... 24
Line-of-Sight (LOS) and Range............................................... 20
Line-of-Sight Example............................................................... 21
Locked Doors................................................................................ 23
Locust Activation Step........................................................10–11
Locust AI Card Breakdown....................................................... 11
Locust Decisions......................................................................... 10
Locusts, Identifying..................................................................... 15
Locust Movement........................................................................ 15
Locust Spawning......................................................................... 15
Map Setup Example......................................................................7
Map Tile Breakdown......................................................................6
Measuring Range........................................................................ 20
Missions Specifics...............................................................26–29
Optional Rules.............................................................................. 30
Order Card Breakdown.................................................................9
Order Step..................................................................................... 10
Playing the Game...........................................................................9
Reaction Abilities......................................................................... 24
Resolving a Locust AI Card Example..................................... 12
Reviving a COG............................................................................. 21
Rules Reference.......................................................................... 32
Sealing Emergence Holes........................................................ 19
Setup..................................................................................................5
Setup Diagram................................................................................8
Solo Rules..................................................................................... 30
Special Actions in the Order Step.......................................... 10
Table Secrecy............................................................................... 25
Taking Cover................................................................................. 14
Turn Details......................................................................................9
Weapon Card Breakdown......................................................... 17
Weapon Special Abilities........................................................... 17
Winning the Game....................................................................... 11
Wounding COG Figures.............................................................. 20
Wounding Locust Figures......................................................... 19
Wounding the Berserker........................................................... 19

Glossary of Terms
• Area: A section of a map tile that can hold any 
number of figures and is used to determine 
movement and range. Areas are divided from one 
another by black walls, blue elevation lines, cover, 
and jagged area dividers. 
• COG: A player-controlled human soldier. Each COG 
soldier in Gears of War: The Board Game has a COG 
Character card and a matching red plastic figure.
• Cover: A space within an area that can hold a 
single figure. Cover provides additional defense to 
the figure inside it (see page 15).
• Level: A section of the map and matching deck of 
Location cards.
• Line-of-Sight (LOS): Figures can only attack each 
other if they have line-of-sight to each other. 
Line-of-sight is established if a player can trace 
a straight line from one figure’s area to the other 
figure’s area without passing through a wall.
• Locust: The alien forces vying to conquer the world 
of Sera. The Locusts in Gears of War: The Board 
Game are opposing the players. Each Locust has 
an Enemy card, four AI cards, and a number of 
gray plastic figures.
• Map Exit: An area on the map that contains a door 
token.
• Objective: Each Mission card has an objective 
which players must complete in order to flip over 
the card and proceed to the next stage.
• Stage: A section of the current mission. Each 
Mission deck has a number of stages, each with its 
own objective.
For more reference, see the Index on page 31.
Rules Reference
Setup
1.	 Choose First Player and COG Characters
2.	 Receive Starting Weapons, Grenades, and Ammo
3.	 Set Up Weapon and Order Decks
4.	 Choose a Mission
5.	 Set Up Locust Cards and Figures
6.	 Set Up Location Decks
7.	 Set Up First Level of the Map
8.	 Place COG Figures on the Map
9.	 Draw Order Cards
Attacking
1.	 Declare Defender (must be within LOS)
2.	 Determine Attack Dice
3.	 Determine Defense Dice 
4.	 Roll Dice
5.	 Deal Wounds
Exploring the Map
1.	 Draw Location Card
2.	 Place Map Tile
3.	 Set Up Locust Figures
4.	 Repeat Steps 1–3 (unless Location deck is empty)
5.	 Place Door Token on Map Exit
Locust Figure Reference
Drone
Wretch
Theron 
Guard
Boomer
Ticker
Kantus
Berserker