by Dave Chalker
Your robots were out for a peaceful swim (they’re 
waterproof) until a ravenous shark showed up and 
began to chow down on their arms and legs! Even­
tually the shark will be full and leave one of you 
alone if you can stay afloat long enough. Remem­
ber: you don’t have to swim faster than the shark, 
you just have to swim faster than your friends!
Time: 10-20 Minutes
Players: 4-6 (see Variants for special rules for 2 and 
3 players)
COMPONENTS
6 robots of different colors
42 cards, numbered 1-7 in 6 different colors
1 shark
SETUP
Each player takes a robot and all the cards that 
match that robot’s color. In a five player game, re­
move the “7” from each player’s hand: it will not be 
used in the game. In a four player game, remove the 
“6” and “7” from each player’s hand: they will not be 
used in the game.
Take all the robots and place them in a line in the 
center of the table, in a random order, lying down 
as if they were swimming in the same direction. 
Place the shark at the end of the line at the feet of 
the last robot.
Play begins. Be sure to note the exception for the 
first round under the Get Bit phase.
PLAY
Game play is done in three phases: Choose Cards, 
Move Robots, and Get Bit.
Choose Cards
To begin the round, each player chooses a card from 
his hand and puts it face down on the table in front 
of himself. If any cards have been previously played, 
the newly played card goes above those cards.
When all players have selected their cards, all the 
cards are turned face up.
Move Robots
The player who played the lowest untied number 
moves his robot to the front of the line. Then the 
player who played the next lowest untied number 
moves his robot to the front of the line, and so on 
until everyone who played untied numbers has 
moved. Anyone who plays the same number as any 
other player does not move.
Get Bit
The Get Bit phase is skipped during the first round 
of play.
After all robots have moved (or not, if tied), the 
robot in the back of the line gets bitten by the shark. 
His player removes one of the robot’s limbs (a com­
plete arm or leg), and moves his robot to the front 
of the line. That player then picks up all his cards on 
the table and puts them back in his hand. If a robot 
is out of all four of his limbs, that player and his 
robot are eliminated from the game.
Any player who has only two card in his hand picks 
up all his cards on the table and puts them back in 
his hand. Otherwise, the cards played this round 
are moved into that player’s stack of played cards. 
These cards remain face-up so they can be inspect­
ed by other players.
The next turn begins back with the Choose Cards 
phase.

EXAMPLE:
John, Anne, Beth, and Ted have their robots in the 
following order at the start of the round:
John chooses to play his “4” card, Anne chooses to 
play her “1” card, Beth chooses to play her “4” card, 
and Ted chooses to play his “5” card.
Once all the cards are chosen, they are turned face 
up. Since Anne played the lowest untied number, 
she moves to the front first. Then since Ted played 
the next lowest untied number, he moves to the 
front next. John and Beth do not move, since they 
tied each other.
Since Beth is now in the back after movement, the 
shark bites her robot. She removes one of its limbs, 
moves it to the front, and picks up all of her played 
cards.
Ted is down to one card in his hand, so he also 
picks up all his played cards. All other players leave 
their played cards on the table. The next round then 
begins with all players choosing cards.
GAME END
Repeat these phases until there are only two robots 
left. As soon as this happens, the shark eats the ro­
bot in the back, and the player whose robot is in the 
front wins the game!
VARIANTS
2 Players
Each player takes two robots, and removes the “6” 
and “7” cards from the hands as if it were a four-
player game. Players play for two different colors of 
robots. Game play progresses as normal until a ro­
bot is eliminated. The player whose robot 
is eliminated loses the game, and the other 
player wins.
3 Players
Each player takes two robots. Players play for two 
different colors of robots. Game play progresses 
as normal until a robot is eliminated. The player 
whose robot is eliminated loses the game, and the 
front most robot that has not been eliminated wins 
the game.
Memory Game
Game play proceeds as described above, 
but instead of keeping the cards played 
open, during the Get Bit phase, all cards 
previously played are turned face down.
Longer Games
Instead of removing a whole arm or leg when a 
robot is bit, remove only half an arm or leg 
each time.
Get Bit! was Designed by Dave Chalker, with il­
lustration and layout by Gavin Schmitt. Creat-a-
Men (the robots) were developed by Ken Lilly at 
www.creatusmaximus.com
All Mayday Games products are compiant with 
applicable provisions of CPSIA regarding specific 
pohibitions and restrictions on lead paint, lead 
content, phthalates, and with the California Air 
Resources Board’s ruling on formaldehyde emis­
sions. Additionally, our products are engineered 
to prevent breakage by forces exerted during nor­
mal use and abuse by children under 3.
Made in China
All Rights Reserved and © Mayday Games
www.maydaygames.com