The statues of the Ancients have always watched over the little folk. At 
least until today: The wolf-warriors of the North have landed to destroy 
these magic totems and capture the spirits that inhabit them. The sole 
survivor, a little ghost mouse, climbs onto his top to save the world from the 
nightmarish monster and its servants. It’s up to you to take this adventure 
full of twists and magic for a spin!
Contents
1 top to launch by hand
1 ripcord top and its launcher
6 white tips and their caps
6 stickers
1 training area in the bottom of the 
box, with the map of the 8 worlds
8 worlds on 
4 double-sided boards
1 AVENTURE booklet 
with 16 missions 
illustrated in comic 
book style
1 QUESTS booklet 
with 25 missions and 
15 SOLO missions 
(page 9)
4 Relaunch potions 
with 1 empty side 
and 1 full side
Training 
Before starting the missions, it is important to 
practice launching the top and moving it. Choose 
a top from the 2 varieties provided, and launch it 
on the map of worlds presented on the inside of 
the box. Take the box into your hands, and tilt it to 
move the top; get it on the course and follow it. As 
soon as you have succeeded at following the course 
4 times in a single launch of the top: you are ready 
to begin the missions!
Game Concept
Ghost Adventure is a cooperative game that you play standing around a table, 
without chairs. Players take turns completing missions together. Each mission 
involves a different route that you must complete with a top, traversing several 
boards. The boards represent 8 worlds and provide numerous targets to reach. At 
the beginning of each mission 1 , the players jointly identify the targets 2 and 
divvy up the boards 3 indicated for this mission. The first player launches the 
top on the stone circle 4 on the first board, and moves the top by titling the 
board 5 to direct it toward its target 6 .Once it has reached its target, the player 
guides the top toward the exit 7 where it can pass from its current board to the 
board held by the next player. This dynamic inter-player relay continues until the 
mission is complete, but beware the traps!
Make clever use of the different action buttons to help you in your mission: Jump 
to a higher level 8 , teleport to another world 9 or refill the top’s relaunch 
potions 10 .

Prepare the Mission
1 Have on the table, accessible to all:
. 	 The booklet for the chosen game mode, open to the page with the 
mission you are playing.
. 	 The boards for the mission.
. 	 Both types of top (each player can choose which one to use when it is 
their turn to launch a top).
. 	 The 4 Relaunch potions: 3 full side up, 1 empty side up.
NOTE : For Solo mode, leave the potions in the box.
2 Each mission is presented on a scroll. 
On it, you will find the following information:
1 The difficulty level and mission number: 
There are 4 difficulty levels:
 Beginner 
 Seasoned 
 Expert 
 Master
2 The worlds with which you will play.
3 The targets that you must touch on each world, respecting the left-to-right 
order in which they are depicted. The mission is a success when you reach the 
final target (depicted in a gold circle).
IMPORTANT : Divvy up the targets to be reached and their corresponding boards 
between the players. The first player is the one who was the most successful in 
the training phase. More advanced missions will require each player to use multiple 
boards.
Choose a Game Mode
Once everyone has trained successfully, you have access to 3 game modes, 
presented in the 2 booklets. Begin by choosing a game mode: Adventure, 
Quests, or Solo. These rules apply to all 3 modes.
• ADVENTURE (1 – 4 PLAYERS)
Adventure mode plunges the players into an illustrated story. It comprises 
16 missions, which quickly increase in difficulty. To enjoy the story, you 
must play the missions in order.
Note: To play solo, place the boards on the edge of the table so 
you can easily grab them yourself during the mission.
• QUESTS (1 – 4 PLAYERS)
Quests mode offers 25 missions of increasing difficulty.
Tip: This mode allows you to train more deeply if Adventure mode 
is too difficult.
• SOLO (1 PLAYER)
Solo mode (page 9 of the booklet) offers 15 missions to be 
played by a solitary player in 1 launch of the top.
The swamp of Mab 
the fairy
The forest of the 
ermines
The dragon’s lair
The ice floe of 
the wolves
The mouse village
The beaver fort
 
The field of the rabbits
The nightmare
the worlds

Relaunching the Top
Checkpoints
The stone circle in each world serves as a launching 
area, an entry area (see Passing From Board to 
Board), but also a checkpoint. After touching a 
target, passing through a stone circle allows 
you to save your progress. You can go directly 
to the checkpoint on your current world, or 
wait to reach the checkpoint in the entry area 
of the next world. If the top stops spinning 
after you have reached a target, but before you 
reach a checkpoint, you must touch that target 
again.
Carrying out the Mission
 
To carry out a mission, you must make the top touch the targets in order, by making 
it move from world to world.
 1 Launch the top
Launch the top on the stone circle on the board for the mission’s first world. As long 
as you do not move the top outside the stone circle, you have 3 tries to get a start 
that you think is strong enough. Once you do (or are on your third try), direct the 
top outside the stone circle by tilting your board.
TIP : The player who launches the top does not have to be the same one who is 
holding the board. For optimal performance, reserve launching the top for the 
players who most successfully completed the training phase..
2 Move the top on the board
Take the board with 2 hands, and tilt it lightly downhill in the desired direction 
to move the top that direction. Each board has 1 or 2 levels of relief (depth). 
The top is always allowed to descend 1 or 2 levels, but it is not allowed to 
ascend without using a Jump action button (see Other Board Elements). If the 
top ascends to a higher level without touching a Jump action button, or if it falls 
off the board to the ground, you have lost control: You must spend a potion to 
relaunch the top.
TIP: Adjust the tilt of the board for quicker or slower movement in order to 
avoid obstacles, losing control, and touching the edges of the paths, which 
would slow the top’s spin.
 
 3 Touching a target
To properly touch a target, move the top onto it, and delay there very briefly 
before continuing the mission. The target remains acquired as long as the top does 
not stop spinning. This makes it very important to reach a checkpoint.
If the top stops spinning, suffers a loss of control, or encounters an 
obstacle (see Other Board Elements), the active player must flip over a 
Relaunch potion, from its full side to its empty side, in order to relaunch the 
top on the stone circle of the current board.
If all of the Relaunch potions are already empty, the mission is 
a bust, and you must restart the entire mission.
Level 1
Level 2

Designer: Wlad Watine (rules, mission 
paths) 
Illustrators: Jules Dubost (boards, cover, 
map of the world), Yann Valeani (comic 
book, cover) 
Comic Book Writers: 
Germain Winzenschtark, Igor Polouchine
Publisher: Buzzy Games, 69 rue Charlot 
75003 Paris - FRANCE
©2020 Buzzy games, SPINBOARD is a registered 
trademark.
Packaging and Modeling: 
Origames
Artistic Direction: 
Igor Polouchine
English Translation: Nathan Morse
Finishing the Adventure
 
If you complete the last mission of one of the game modes, bravo! You 
become Grand Master of the Spirits. Don’t hesitate to record your exploits 
and send your video to contact@buzzygames.net.
Other Board Elements
Obstacles
If your top is trapped in an obstacle, you must relaunch it on the 
stone circle of the current board. The obstacles:
• Toxic purple pools.
• Holes (unless the top comes out of them without any action on 
your part).
Action Buttons
The boards have three types of action buttons. They are activated when the 
top moves onto them.
POTION BUTTON
Flip over one Relaunch 
potion, from its empty 
side to its full side.
Note: The Potion button can only be activated once per board during any 
given mission.
JUMP BUTTON 
Make your top jump 1 or 2 levels higher 
in the same world. When the top passes 
over a Jump button, give the board a little 
jerk with your hands to make it jump in the arrow’s 
direction.
Tips for optimal jump accuracy: 
• Turn the board so the arrow points toward you.
• Make sure the top has plenty of speed.
TELEPORT BUTTON
Jump from one world to another, without needing to leave through 
the exit, and without needing to arrive on the stone circle.
When the top passes over a Teleport button, 
you can make it jump directly to any place 
you like on another board: Just as for a 
normal jump, give the board a little jerk.
When you are playing at Master 
level sometimes you must use 
the Teleport button to jump to 
the world on the other side of 
the same board. Get the top high 
enough in the air to allow you to 
turn the board over and catch it.
Certain Master-level missions indicate a “sight” on the target to 
be reached. To hit such a target, the players must teleport directly 
onto the target!
4 Passing from board to board
Once you have reached a board’s target, direct the top toward the board’s exit 1 
to make it drop onto the stone circle 2 on the next board. The top is not allowed 
to leave or enter at any other point on the board, except by using a Teleport action 
button (see Other Board Elements).
IMPORTANT : The player with the destination board should make it as easy as 
possible to deliver the top by aligning the target stone circle below the exit of 
the active player’s board.
TIP: Keep in mind that the targets reached on a board are automatically saved 
when the top reaches the stone circle of the following board.
5 End of the Mission
The mission is completed if you succeed in touching all of the targets. You can 
move on to the next mission.
If you must relaunch the top but have no more Relaunch potions, you have lost, 
and you must restart the mission.
TM
Credits
RULES VIDEO
www.buzzygames.net
3 mn
mn

Affixing the Stickers 
There are 2 different stickers (A and B). It is important to position them well to 
keep the tops well balanced. There are 4 extra stickers in case you don’t get it 
right on the first try.
Instructions for the Tops
To avoid damaging the top’s tip 
when it falls, we strongly recommend 
playing over softer surfaces: thick 
tablecloth on the table, rug or carpet 
on the floor, etc.
If the tip of the top still gets 
damaged, you can replace it:
Remove the cap and damaged 
spindle, then:
1 Slide the new spindle in.
2 Replace the cap in the top 
hole until it clips onto the 
spindle.
(We have provided 6 replacement 
tips in case of damage.)
In case the top becomes 
damaged
Grab the top with a white 
gear, its launcher, and the 
ripcord.
Put the top inside the 
launcher,with its tip pointed 
up.
How do I launch the ripcord top?
Flip the launcher right 
side up slightly above the 
launch zone (the top must 
stand freely in the launcher), 
and yank the ripcord.
Insert the ripcord without 
touching the top with your 
fingers, so you don’t block its 
rotation.
1cm
Locate the hole and note 
the entry direction for the 
ripcord.
You must insert the 
ripcord perfectly 
aligned with the 
gear, so let the top 
hang free in the 
launcher so the teeth 
can connect.
Do not touch the board 
with the tip of the top.

Examples of 
Targets per 
Difficulty 
Level
MASTER
Jump + obstacle 
+ narrow passage
EXPERT
Jump 
+ obstacle
SEASONED
Jump 
or obstacle
BEGINNER
Stone 
Circle
• Entry area
• Launch zone
• Checkpoint
Exit
to another world
Action Buttons
Anatomy of a World
Jump to higher levels
Refill a potion
Teleport to another world
Types of 
Obstacles
Toxic pool
Hole
Narrow 
passage