Rules

Ghost Stories 
A game by Antoine Bauza for 1 to 4 players, aged 12 and up.
Many fell, putting an end to the reign of terror of Wu-Feng, Lord of the Nine 
Hells. The funerary urn housing his ashes was buried in the cemetery of a 
village in the Middle Empire. Years have elapsed, and the cursed legacy has 
been forgotten by the living. 
Hidden away in hell, Wu-Feng has forgotten nothing. His incessant search 
allowed him to locate the receptacle. The shadow of his former incarnation 
already extends to the villagers, who are unaware of the threat. 
Fortunately, the Fat-Si (Taoist priests) keep watch, guarding the border be-
tween the dead and the living. Armed with their courage, their faith, and 
their powers, they are dedicated to send the reincarnation of Wu-Feng back 
to Hell.
Preamble 
Ghost Stories is a cooperative game. Players play as a team against the 
game. Either they share a common victory, or they all suffer the same 
defeat. For your first reading of the rules, keep the play aids nearby: they 
will help you to understand the game mechanisms.
The rules presented here are for a 4-player game. Games with 1, 2, or 3 
players require some adjustments, which are covered in the appendix.
Ghost Stories provides 4 levels of difficulty, namely Initiation, Normal, 
Nightmare, and Hell. The rules below deal with the Initiation level. Once 
you’ve conquered the Initiation level, Ghost Stories allows you to increase 
the difficulty for a new challenge. You will find the appropriate adjust-
ments for playing the other difficulty levels in the appendix.
G
I
C
B
D
A
E
I
H
F

Tao Tokens (E)
In order to fight the ghosts, the Taoists will rely on mystical components, such as 
sticky rice (yellow), silver bells (green), incense sticks (red), Taoist mirrors (blue), 
and coins (black), all represented by Tao tokens. These tokens exist in 5 colors, 
each corresponding to one type of ghost.
Tao Dice and Curse Die (F)
The Taoists use the 3 Tao dice to exorcise the ghosts. An extra Tao die (grey) is as-
sociated with a specific power of the green Taoist.. Occasionally, the players must 
roll another die, the Curse Die, and suffer its negative effects (see appendix on 
page 10)
Ghosts (G)
The ghosts are characterized by Color (1), Resis-
tance (2), Abilities (3), and sometimes a Reward 
(4). These concepts are detailed later in the rules 
and in one of the play aids.
The ghosts’ abilities are grouped according to 
their moment of activation :
- the abilities in the left stone must be applied 
when the ghost enters the game.
- the abilities in the central stone must be applied 
each turn (Yin phase).
- the abilities in the right stone must be applied 
when the ghost is exorcised (see Curse and Re-
ward).
If a ghost has several abilities, they are applied 
from left to right.
Example: (a) Haunt one tile upon arrival, (b) 
haunt one tile each turn, (c) haunt one tile 
when exorcised.
When a ghost is discarded, its abilities are no longer applicable.
Example: Bruce exorcised Severed Heads, so the group recovers the Tao die that 
the ghost had captured.
Wu-Feng incarnations (H)
Wu-Feng appears during the game as an incarnation (there can 
be more than one in upper difficulty levels). Ten incarnations are 
possible. They are depicted on the red back cards, being also rec-
ognized by the Wu-Feng symbol below the resistance. Each incar-
nation is characterized by its own capacities, as explained later.
Contents
4 game boards
9 Village tiles
3 Tao dice
1 special Tao die
1 Curse die
55 Ghost cards (blue cards)
10 Incarnation of Wu-Feng 
	
cards (red back cards) (I)
20 Tao tokens
20 Qi tokens
4 Taoist figurines
Elements of the game
Village Tiles (A)
The village that must be defended by the Taoists is made up of 9 locations, rep-
resented by the Village tiles. These sites can provide aid to the players, but may 
also be haunted by the ghosts. The front of each tile represents the place with 
its owner (called an active site); the back represents the place without its owner 
(called a haunted site). The Village tiles are detailed in one of the play aids.
Game Boards (B)
Each of the 4 game boards shows 3 rectangular spaces to harbor the ghosts that 
are attacking the village, 6 circular icons or stones (2 in front of each of the 3 
ghost spaces) for the Haunting figurines, 3 for the Buddha figurines, as well as 
a symbol in the lower-left corner that depicts the corresponding Taoist’s power. 
These boards are double-sided, each side providing a different power to broaden 
game pleasure.
Qi Points (C)
The Qi (pronounced “Chee”) points represent the vital energy of the Taoists. They 
may be lost (under the assault of the Ghosts, and in few other cases) and regained 
(through rewards and a specific Village tile). A Taoist may possess more Qi points 
than at the begining of the game, limited to the number of Qi tokens in the sup-
ply.
Yin-Yang Power (D)
Each Taoist has one Yin-Yang token that can be spent to perform a special action. 
This token can be regained during the gameplay thanks to given ghosts.
4 Yin-Yang tokens
8 Haunting figurines
2 Buddha figurines
1 Inactive Taos marker
1 Enfeeblement Mantra token (a scroll)
4 Inactive Power tokens
3 Neutral Power tokens
1 rulebook
2 play aids
1 sheet to record the results 
	
of your games

A. Presence of ghost(s) with the Haunter ability
For each haunting ghost present on his board, the player must 
update the position of the associated Haunting figurine. Three 
positions are possible: one on the card and two on the board. 
On the card: if the haunting figurine stands on the card, the player 
moves it onto the corresponding haunting icon on the board. Noth-
ing else happens.
On the board: If the figurine is already on the first haunting icon of the 
board, it is then moved onto the haunted tile icon at the edge of the 
board, and the corresponding tile becomes haunted. The haunting figu-
rine is immediately placed back onto the haunting icon of the card. 
Therefore, unless prevented by the Taoists, a haunting ghost haunts a 
tile every two turns.
To haunt a tile: when a ghost has reached the icon at the edge of the 
board, as explained above, the player must turn face down the first 
village tile in front of the ghost. If the first tile in front of the ghost is already 
haunted (face-down), then the next one on the same line gets turned face down. 
B. Presence of ghost(s) with the Tormentor ability
For each of the tormentors (ghosts with a curse die on the cen-
tral stone) present on his board, the active player must roll the 
Curse Die and apply the effect:
(a) : No effect.
(b) : The first active village tile in front of the ghost becomes haunted.
(c) : The player must bring a ghost into play according to the placement rules.
(d) : The player must discard all his Tao tokens.
(e) : The Taoist loses one Qi token.
Buddha and Haunting Figurines (i)
The Haunting figurines represent the Ghosts’ menace to the village, and the Bud-
dha figurines represent the mystical traps that the Taoists can set.
Setup (Initiation level, 4-player game) 
Randomly arrange the 9 Village tiles to form a 3 x 3 square. At the beginning of the 
game, no locations are haunted, so the villagers are visible.
Place the 4 game boards along the sides of the square of Village tiles so that each 
one faces a player. Randomly assign each player a color, and for each player, ran-
domly determine which side of his board to use.
Each player takes 4 Qi tokens, the Yin-Yang token in his color, a Tao token in his 
color, a black Tao token, and places the Taoist figurine of his color on the central 
tile of the village.
Place the 2 Buddha figurines on the “Buddhist Temple” Village tile.
The remaining material (Tao tokens, Qi tokens, figurines) constitutes the supply.
One of the players prepares the Ghost deck:
- Take one among the 10 Wu-Feng cards at random, without looking at the cards.
- Shuffle the Ghost cards.
- To finalize the deck, take 10 Ghost cards, place the randomly selected WU-Feng 
card on them, and cover with the rest of the Ghost cards 
Therefore, the deck is sequentially constituted as follows: 45 Ghost cards, 1 Wu-
Feng incarnation card, and 10 Ghost cards.
Goal of the Game
In order to claim victory over the ghosts and save the village, the players must 
exorcise the incarnation of Wu-Feng.
Playing the Game
A player starts, the one who has seen most recently a kung-fu movie. The players 
play in turn, clockwise. Each player’s turn consists of 2 phases (Yin and Yang). The 
diagram on the last page of these rules illustrates a player’s turn.
Yin Phase (Ghosts) 
Step 1. Ghosts’ actions
At the beginning of his turn, the active player announces the ghosts present on his 
board. All their central stone abilities are now applied in the Yin phase.
d
e

3) Place a Buddha (optional) 
Note: The active player may use his Yin-Yang power before or after any step of 
his Yang phase.
1) Move
The player may move his Taoist figurine from its current tile to an adjacent one. 
Diagonal movement is allowed. Movement is not obligatory.
2) Request help from a villager OR attempt an exorcism
The Taoist may perform only one of the 2 following actions:
2.a) Request help from a villager
On the tile where it stands, the Taoist may request help from the corresponding 
villager. The actions are detailed in the play aid.
2.b) Attempt an exorcism
On the tile where it stands, the Taoist may exorcise a ghost situated on a adjacent 
space only.. Therefore, no exorcism is possible from the central tile, and two exor-
cisms are possible from a corner tile. To attempt an exorcism, the player rolls the 3 
Tao dice. To succeed, he must obtain a number of the right colored side (the color 
of the ghost) at least equal to the ghost resistance. Note: white faces may replace 
any color, up to the player. If the player succeeds, the ghost is exorcised (returns to 
hell), and the ghost card is discarded. If the player fails, nothing happens.
Example: The yellow Taoist, played by Bruce, is combatting against Bleeding 
Eyes (Red, resistance 2). In order to beat it and send it back to hell, he needs to 
obtain 2 red (or white) sides out of the 3 Tao dice.
If the player does not succeed with only the dice, he may spend Tao tokens of the 
corresponding color to match the ghost resistance and beat it.
Example: Bruce rolls the Tao dice, and gets one red side only. If he has a red 
token, he may spend it to send Bleeding eyes to hell.
Exorcising 2 Ghosts
A Taoist standing on one of the four corner tiles may target two adjacent spaces, 
If all 3 ghost spaces on his board are occupied at the begining of his turn, the player 
loses 1 Qi token and does not perform Step 3. (he does not draw a new ghost from 
the deck and directly starts the Yang phase).
Step 3. Arrival of a ghost
If the player’s board is not overrun by 3 ghosts, the player draws the first ghost 
card from the deck, and brings it into play according to the following rules:
Ghost placement rules
A Red, Green , Blue, or Yellow ghost must be placed on the board of the corre-
sponding color, if possible. If all three spaces on that specific board are already 
occupied, then the active player chooses any other location. A Black ghost must 
be placed on the active player’s board, if possible. Again, if the three spaces are 
already occupied, the active player chooses any other location. The abilities indi-
cated in the left stone are applied as soon as the location is chosen.
It might happen that the 12 spaces are already occupied by ghosts when the 
player must draw a new one. In such situation, instead of adding the ghost, 
the active Taoist loses 1 Qi token.
Example: Bruce draws Severed Heads (ILLU), and as the ghost is black, he 
places it on his board, which brings the total number of ghosts on his board 
to 3. He doesn’t lose any Qi token, because Qi loss due to board overrun hap-
pens in the active player Step 2, but he places one of the 3 Tao dice on Severed 
Heads, as indicated. However, he must also draw another ghost, but since all 
12 spaces are now occupied, he loses one Qi token instead of adding another 
ghost. 
Yang Phase (Taoist) 
After the Yin phase is done, the player plays the role of his Taoist, according to the 
following sequence:
1) Move (optional) 
2) Request help from a villager OR attempt an exorcism 

Sharing Tao tokens
During an exorcism, the active player may use Tao tokens of one or more Taoists at 
the condition that they stand on the same village tile as him. In no other case are 
players allowed to either give or exchange Tao tokens.
Example: Bruce moves his red Taoist to the same tile as the yellow Taoist. The 
space in front of this tile is occupied by a Hopping Vampire (Yellow, resistance 
3). Bruce rolls the 3 Tao dice, and gets one green side, one yellow side, and 
one red side. Bruce has no yellow Tao token, but Sam, the yellow Taoist, has 2 
of them. The players choose to spend them in order to get a total of 3 yellow 
points and send the Ghost to the discard pile.
Curse and rewards (right stone)
Certain ghosts curse and/or reward the Taoist who has just exorcised them. These 
curses and rewards are indicated on the right stone of the ghost card. The most 
frequent curse is to have to roll the curse die and apply its effects. The potential 
rewards are as follows: Gain Tao tokens (the player chooses the color from those 
available in the supply), gain a Qi token, or recover the Yin-Yang token (if the 
player had already spent it). Curses are always applied before rewards.
Example: Bruce has just succeeded in exorcising a Dark Wraith (Black, 
resistance 3). He has the choice between gaining 1 Qi token or taking his Yin-
Yang back. He chooses to take back his Yin-Yang, rather than to gain Qi.
3) Place a Buddha
A player who obtained a Buddha figurine during a previous turn (via the Buddhist 
Temple village tile) may place it at the end of his turn, if his Taoist faces an empty 
ghost space. Place the Buddha figurine on the Buddha symbol. It may be possible 
hence have the opportunity to exorcise two ghosts . For that, the player must de-
feat the two ghosts with one dice roll. As usual, the player may use Tao tokens to 
complete. When dice and Tao tokens combination allows the player to exorcise 
either of the two ghosts, the player may choose which of the two ghost cards is 
discarded.
Example: The yellow Taoist is currently on a corner tile. The two adjacent 
spaces are occupied by Bleeding Eyes (Red, resistance 2) and Perfidious Nymph 
(Blue, resistance 1). The player rolls the 3 Tao Dice and gets 1 red side, 1 white 
side, and 1 yellow side. The yellow side is useless. He spends a Red Tao token, 
which is added to the red side, and exorcises Bleeding Eyes. He uses the white 
side as blue to exorcise the Perfidious Nymph.
Special note: A player is never obliged to spend Tao tokens, but if the dice are 
sufficient to exorcise a ghost, the player must exorcise it.
Example: Bruce is on a corner tile. The adjacent spaces are occupied by a 
Zombie (Yellow, resistance 2) and a Coffin Breaker (Yellow, resistance 1). 
Bruce wants to exorcise the Coffin Breaker because it nullifies the power of 
the board on which it stands. He rolls the 3 dice and gets 2 yellow sides and 
1 white. Therefore, he exorcises the Coffin Breaker and the Zombie too. In 
addition, because of the Zombie’s ability, triggered upon exorcism, he must 
roll a Curse die.

Death of a Taoist
A Taoist who has no more Qi is dead. All his belongings are lost (his Tao tokens, his 
Buddha figurines, his Yin-Yang, his power tokens). The corresponding figurine is 
placed lying on the Cemetery tile. The ghosts on his board remain in play.
A player whose Taoist is dead continues to play and deliberate with the other Tao-
ists (although he cannot act directly, they still can consult his spirit, benefiting 
from the wisdom of the departed). He can win the game, even if dead. He may 
even come back to life, with the aid of the Cemetery tile (and the other Taoists!). 
His board becomes possessed (see neutral board below) and the ghosts occupying 
it continue to act, despite the Taoist’s death. The steps 1 & 2 of the Yin phase must 
be played. The other players will have to suffer the effects and consequences of 
the ghosts on this board.
Example: 2 village tiles are already haunted. During the next Yin phase, one 
more tile will be haunted by a ghost with the Haunter ability. Sam only has 
one Qi left, but in order to save the village, he decides to sacrifice his Taoist by 
requesting help from the sorcerer and send the ghost to hell.
The incarnations of Wu-Feng
An incarnation of Wu-Feng comes into play al-
most at the end of the deck. The card is placed 
on a player’s board as for a common ghost (the 
“Nameless” and “Hope killer” incarnations are 
considered as black ghosts). Exorcising this in-
carnation is the only way for the players to win 
the game. Each incarnation has not only an abil-
ity, but also conditions that must be met to win. 
Incarnations are not affected by the Sorcerer’s 
hut and by buddhas. An incarnation that comes 
into play on a space occupied by a Buddha is not 
eliminated, but the Buddha, however, is placed 
back onto the “Buddhist Temple” tile. 
Any exorcised incarnation affords 1 Qi token and 
1 Yin-Yang token to the group. The players decide to whom they assign these re-
wards. A dead Taoist cannot receive a Qi token or a Ying-Yang token. In both the 
Initiation and normal levels, such reward only impacts on the final score, since the 
game ends up immediately when the unique incarnation is exorcised. In the night-
mare and hell levels, such reward is extremely profitable for the group to go on.
to place two Buddha’s in the same turn, when the Taoist stands on a corner tile and 
the two corresponding ghost spaces are free.
As soon as a ghost is placed onto a space protected by a Buddha (it van be brought 
here through the „pavilion of the heavenly winds“ tile), it is immediately trans-
ferred to hell (the discard pile). This ghost has no time to apply any of its potential 
abilities, neither those on the left stone nor those on the right stone (curses and 
rewards). The Buddha figurine is then placed back on the Buddhist Temple tile. 
Yin-Yang 
Each Taoist has one particularly valuable asset: the Yin-Yang. Using his Yin-Yang 
allows the Taoist to get help from any villager without having to be on that vil-
lager’s tile, OR it allows the Taoist to turn a haunted tile back to its active side, 
bringing the villager back. Using the Yin-Yang is in addition to the normal action 
of the player.
When a player uses his Yin-Yang, he puts the token in the supply.
The Taoists may have the opportunity to get their Yin-Yang back by exorcising 
certain ghosts. The active player may use his Yin-Yang before or after any step of 
the Yang phase (before doing anything, after moving, etc.), but not in the middle 
of an action.
Taoists may use their Ying-Yang twice in the same turn in certain circumstances: 
indeed, the player may lose his Ying-Yang, regain it thanks to a reward, and use it 
again immediately.
Example: Sam is face-to-face with a Dark Wraith (Black, resistance 3). He has 
no black Tao tokens and absolutely wants to exorcise this ghost. He decides 
to use his Yin-Yang. He uses it to appeal to the Circle of Prayer tile, and places 
a black Tao token on it. He continues his turn and attempts to exorcise the 
Phantom. He rolls the 3 Tao Dice and gets one black side, one white side, and 
one green side. With the black token on the Circle of Prayer weakening black 
ghosts, the white side and the black side, the exorcism is successful.

- 4 points per haunted village tile 
+2 points for exorcising the first incarnation in the nightmare and hell modes
 +4 points for exorcising the second incarnation in the nightmare and hell modes
+6 points for the third incarnation in the nightmare and helle levels (3/4 players)
The Taoist Powers
Each game board provides two different powers. For a game, the 
player will have one of the two powers only, because he will use 
either the front or the back of his board (selected randomly). The 
8 powers are described below: It may happen that a Taoist loses his 
power because of a ghost ability. He can recover it as soon as the 
responsible ghost is removed from his board.
Yellow Taoist
1. Enfeeblement Mantra
The yellow Taoist can bewitch Ghosts to hamper them.
Before his move, he places or moves the Enfeeblement Mantra token 
onto any ghost in play. A ghost under the effect of the Enfeeblement 
Mantra shows a resistance reduced by 1 (a ghost with a resitance of 3 
has a resistance of 2), regardless of which Taoist is performing the exorcism. When 
the ghost subjected to the Enfeeblement Mantra is removed from the game, the 
yellow Taoist recovers the token and may use it again from the next turn on. If the 
monk loses his power, remove the Enfeeblement Mantra token from the game.
Particular case: when fighting against multicolored incarnations, the color of the 
Mantra may be chosen after the dice roll.
2. Bottomless Pockets
The yellow Taoist is never short of mystical components.
Before his move, he may take a Tao token of any color among those 
available in the supply.
Red Taoist
1. Dance of the Twin Winds 
The red Taoist has the ability to guide his fellow monks.
Before his move, he may also play one other Taoist figurine according 
to the move rules.
End of the Game
The players collectively win if they manage to exorcise the incarnation of Wu-
Feng. 
Otherwise, there are 3 situations that result in the players’ defeat:
1. All Taoists are dead (no more Qi tokens). With no one left to face the threat, the 
village becomes lifeless under the assault of the Ghosts...
2. A 3rd location in the village becomes haunted. The ghosts have retrieved Wu-
Feng’s funerary urn. The world of the living does not exist any more...
3. The last ghost card of the deck is put in play while the incarnation of Wu-Feng 
has not been exorcised yet. The players lose immediately. The village will never 
again see the daylight...
Remark: Even if the last incarnation is sent to hell, the players still have to suffer 
any associated curse. They only win if the application of this curse does not induce 
their defeat.
Example: The Taoists exorcise the “Death Army” incarnation of Wu-Feng. 
There are 2 village tiles already cursed before they have to roll the Curse die. 
Unfortunately, the die provokes the haunting of a village tile situated in front 
of the incarnation. The players lose the game at the last moment...
Remarks: Do not despair if your first few games result in defeat. Ghost Stories 
requires some learning, and you may need several tries before you win for the 
first time. Actually, the “Hell” level of play will challenge even experienced play-
ers, but it remains possible for them to win. Just be sure to apply all the rules, use 
all the powers and Yin-Yang in your possession, and above all, cooperate with each 
other. You can do it!
If the Initiation mode is still too tough, you may start with 5 Qi token. 
Score
In order to evaluate your performance and to help you progress, you will find a 
score sheet in the box to keep track of your games.
To calculate your score, use the following values:
+10 points in case of victory (in Initiation, normal, or nightmare mode)
+20 points for a victory in Hell level.
+1 point per remaining Qi 
+1 point for any ghost card still in the deck if you win, but 
-1 point per card if you have lost the game. 
- 3 points per dead Taoist 

2. Dance of the Peaks
The red Taoist has the ability to fly.
During his move, he may reach any village tile, not only adjacent 
ones.
Blue Taoist
1. Second Wind
The blue Taoist can slow down the time flow .
From his current village tile, he may request twice the villager’s 
help OR attempt two exorcisms. These two exorcisms are inde-
pendent:, which means that all dice must roll twice. The player is not allowed to 
allocate any die result of the first roll to the second exorcism attempt. 
2. Heavenly Gust
The blue Taoist can act in a heartbeat.
He may request villager’s help AND attempt an exorcism in the 
same turn, in any order.
Green Taoist
1. Strength of the Mountain
The green Taoist has an exceptional power.
He may roll a fourth Tao die when performing an exorcism. In 
addition, he never rolls the Curse die.
2. Gods‘ favourite
The ancestral deities accompany the green Taoist.
He may roll a second time any Tao die involved in a support ac-
tion or an exorcism (he may keep some of the Tao dice and roll 
the others). Likewise, he may also roll the Curse die a second time. However, only 
the second result is taken into account.
Rules for 1, 2, or 3 Players
Setup
For 2 or 3 players
Set up the village tiles and game boards as for 4 players. Game boards that are not 
assigned to players- called neutral game boards- receive 3 Qi token each.
In addition to the Yin-Yang, Taoïst colored Tao token and black Tao token, give each 
player a Power token. Neutral boards are not assigned any Tao and Ying-Yang tokens.
Note: in a 2-player game, the two players must face each other. Therefore, they 
each have a neutral board on their left and on their right. 
Preparation of the deck:
At 3 players, remove randomly 5 ghost cards from the deck.
At 2 players, remove 10 ghost cards. Do not look at the discarded cards.
Add the incarnation(s) of Wu-Feng to the deck AFTER having removed these extra 
cards.
For solo game.
Remove 15 ghost cards before adding the incarnation(s) of Wu-Feng to the deck. 
Take one blue, one green, one yellow, and one red Tao token (1 black more in initi-
ation mode). Take 3 neutral power tokens. Make sure the red board has the “Dance 
of the peaks” power visible (to enable flying). No aid can be requested from the 
cemetery tile, and the action of the „pavilion of the heavenly winds“ allows the 
player to move his own Taoist.
Neutral power tokens
A neutral power token allows the active player to use during his 
Yang phase the power of a non-possessed (see below) neutral 
board. Such action is supplementary to his own power.
A player may use several neutral power tokens in the same turn, 
but not for the same power. After use, a neutral power token is 
placed on the central tile (whether this tile is haunted or not does not affect the 
neutral power tokens). When a Taoist ends his turn on the central tile, he may take 
all or part of the neutral power tokens on this tile. It is not allowed to give neutral 
power tokens to another player. If a Taoist dies (0 Qi), his neutral power tokens 
are placed on the central tile, where they can be taken by other players, as seen 
above.
Example. Sam is playing alone, practicing exorcism rituals. He controls the red 
Taoist and has 3 neutral power tokens. He may use all three in the same turn, 
one for the power of the yellow game board, one for the power of the blue 
board, and one for the power of the green board.
Neutral Boards
Boards without player are called “neutral boards”. Their playturn is specific in that 
only the two first steps of their Yin phase are carried out and no Yang phase. 
Neutral boards start the game with 3 Qi tokens. They may lose them but never get 
them back.
Important: the phase 3 of the Yin phase (adding of a new ghost) is never per-
formed for a neutral board.

Discard ghost cards as explained above, if you there are less than 4 players. Then, 
insert randomly chosen Wu-Feng incarnation cards in the deck as follows, starting 
from the end of the deck. 
For 3 or 4 players: 10 ghosts, 1 incarnation, 10 ghosts, 1 incarnation, 10 ghosts, 1 
incarnation, 10 ghosts, 1 incarnation, the rest of the ghost deck.
For 1 or 2 players: 10 ghosts, 1 incarnation, 10 ghosts, 1 incarnation, 10 ghosts, 1 
incarnation, , the rest of the ghost deck.
Hell mode
Approved by Wu-Feng himself!
The hell mode is similar to the Nightmare mode, except that the Taoists start the 
game without their Yin-Yang.
Appendix: abilities of the incarnations
Howling Nightmare
The Taoists can only exorcise this incarnation if the ghost place fac-
ing him on the opposite board is not occupied by a Ghost.
Uncatchable
This incarnation must be placed on a location occupied by a Buddha 
figurine in order for the players to exorcise it. This can be achieved 
by moving this incarnation onto a Buddha, or by bringing it into play 
on a Buddha. The incarnation then can be exorcised according to the rules. The 
Buddha is replaced on the Buddha temple tile.
Note: This incarnation is the only one to be affected by Buddhas.
Death Army
This incarnation is a tormentor ghost. In addition, after its success-
ful exorcism, the player must roll the curse die before the incarna-
tion is discarded. 
Step 1. Ghosts’ Actions
Presence of ghost(s) with the Haunter ability
For each of such ghosts on the neutral board, adjust the position of the Haunting 
figurine according to the normal rules. 
Presence of ghost(s) with the Tormentor ability
For each Tormentor on the neutral board, a player must roll the Curse die and 
apply its effect for the neutral board (the green Taoist’s power is ineffective for 
this die roll). Remark: if the curse die indicates „loss of Tao tokens“, you are lucky 
as this has no effect on a neutral board. 
If the neutral board is filled with ghosts at the start of this step, the board loses 
one Qi. Otherwise, nothing happens. 
Possessed board (board with 0 Qi)
A neutral board that has lost all Qi tokens 
is called „a possessed board“, Its specific 
power cannot be used anymore through 
neutral power tokens. 
Any further loss of Qi points (i.e. board 
overrun or tormentor) must be endured by a player of your choice (the green 
Taoist’s power is ineffective if Qi loss is due to the curse die).
Higher Difficulty levels: Normal, Nightmare, and Hell
The preceding rules let you discover Ghost Stories at the Initiation level of play.
After you have triumphed over this mode, Ghost Stories provides 3 additional 
levels of play , which allow you to engage in new challenges by increasing the dif-
ficulty.
Normal mode
The true adventure begins... 
The Normal mode differs from Initiation on two points:
- The Taoists start the game with 3 Qi tokens, not 4.
- Taoists begin the game with their colored Tao token but without the black Tao token.
Nightmare mode
Have you progressed? You are so daring !
The nightmare mode uses the rules of the normal mode, but you must win against 
an increased number of Wu-Feng incarnations 
- For 3 or 4 players:, 4 Wu-Feng incarnations are used
- for 1 or 2 players, 3 Wu-Feng incarnations are used
Mode
Qi tokens
Incarnations
Other
Initiation
1 Tao token black / Taoïst
Normal
Nightmare
4 (3)
Hell
4 (3)
no Ying-Yang

Forgotten Ones
Upon its arrival in the game and until its destruction, this incarna-
tion prevents all Taoists from using their powers, including the neu-
tral power tokens.
Bonecracke
This incarnation obliges all players to discard a Tao token when it 
comes into play, as well as at the begining of each Yin phase of the 
player who harbors this incarnation on his board. The same applies 
when it is a neutral board. .If a player has no Tao to discard, nothing 
happens for him.
Dark Mistress
Upon its arrival in the game and until its destruction, this incarna-
tion prevents the Taoists from using Tao tokens (put the Inactive 
Tao marker on the board).
Creeping Horror
This incarnation captures a Tao die upon its arrival and keeps it until 
its destruction (keep the die on the card).
Vampire Lord
The vampire lord is simply a Haunter with a resistance of 4.
Hope Killer
This incarnation has a resistance of 8 (2 blue + 2 red + 2 green + 
2 yellow). In addition, the player must roll the curse die when this 
incarnation is exorcised..
Nameless
Resistance: 1 blue + 1 green + 1 yellow + 1 red + 1 black
Upon its arrival in the game, this incarnation discards the Tao token 
on the “Circle of Prayer” village tile. In addition, the white side of 
the Tao dice no longer count for any color . They are simply ignored.
Ghost Stories is a game from Repos Production Tel.+32477.25.45.18 • 
Rue Lambert Vandervelde 7 • 1170 Watermael-Boitsfort - Belgium • www.rprod.com
Designer : Antoine Bauza
Illustrations : Pierô
Development : Les Belges à Sombreros aka Cédrick Caumont & Thomas Provoost
Translation : Nathan Morse, Revision: Eric Franklin, Pascal Cadot
Acknowledgments
The author would like to thank the brave Taoists who faced innumerable playtests 
at his side, especially Bruno Goube, Mickaël Bertrand, Florian Grenier, and Fran-
coise Sengissen. 
Les Belges à Sombreros want to thank Christophe «A la Guèèrrre!» Arnoulth, Na-
than Morse, Eric Franklin, Eric Martin, Anthony Rubbo, Brian Yu, Mary and Frank 
Branham.
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2008-2009. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED FOR ALL COUNTRIES.
This material may only be used for private entertainment.
1.	
Ghoul
2.	
Walking Corpse
3.	
Coffin Breaker
4.	
Coffin Breaker
5.	
Restless Dead
6.	
Zombie
7.	
Zombie
8.	
Hopping Vampire
9.	
Hopping Vampire
10.	 Yellow Plague
11.	 Lich
12.	 Drowned Maiden
13.	 Hound of Death
14.	 Perfidious Nymph
15.	 Perfidious Nymph
16.	 Sticky Feet
17.	 Abysmal
18.	 Abysmal
19.	 Ooze Devil
20.	 Ooze Devil
21.	 Liquid Horror
22.	 Fury of Depth
23.	 Creeping One
24.	 Fungus Thing
25.	 Fallen Monk
26.	 Fallen Monk
27.	 Restless Spirit
28.	 Rotten Soul
29.	 Rotten Soul
30.	 Wicked one
31.	 Wicked one
32.	 Green Abomination
33.	 Great Putrid
34.	 Skinner
35.	 Reaper
36.	 Sharp-Nailed 
Mistress
37.	 Sharp-Nailed 
Mistress
38.	 Bleeding Eyes
39.	 Blood Drinker
40.	 Blood Drinker
41.	 Scarlet Evildoer
42.	 Scarlet Evildoer
43.	 Flesh Devourer
44.	 Raging One
45.	 Gloomy Minion
46.	 Repellent Beauty
47.	 Severed Heads
48.	 Severed Heads
49.	 Gravewalker
50.	 Black Widow
51.	 Black Widow
52.	 Dark Wraith
53.	 Dark Wraith
54.	 Shapeless Evil
55.	 Soul Eater
56.	 Howling Nightmare
57.	 Uncatchable
58.	 Hope Killer
59.	 Death Army
60.	 Forgotten Ones
61.	 Bonecracker
62.	 Dark Mistress
63.	 Creeping Horror
64.	 Vampire Lord
65.	 Nameless

Turn sequence
Yin Phase (Ghosts) 
1. Ghosts’ actions
2. Board overrun? lose 1 Qi token 
or:
3. Arrival of a ghost
Yang Phase (Taoist)
1. Move (optional) 
2. Request help from a villager OR 
attempt an exorcism 
3. Place a Buddha (optional) 
Yin
Yang
3 ?
2.a) Request help from a villager
Step 3. Arrival of a ghost
2.b) Attempt an exorcism
Yes
1.B. Ghost(s) with the Tormentor ability
1.A. Ghost(s) with the Haunter ability
1) Move (optional) 
3) Place a Buddha (optional), take power tokens
No
d
e
Lose 1 QI
(Never performed for a neutral board!)
No step 3
On the card or on the board
OR