4 8
Italiano
Italiano
Kris Burm
O
V
D
È
Y
S
H
Ü
C
Illustrations ........................................2-3 
Overview.................................................5 
Contents..................................................5
Basic Rules..............................................6
Standard Rules........................................8
Tournament Rules...................................9
Concept & Possibilities.........................10
Information about the GIPF project: 
games, potentials, digital versions 
and more.
Warning! Choking hazard. Not suitable for 
children under age of 3 due to small parts. 
Author: Kris Burm
3D: Andreas Resch 
Design: Kris Burm, 
HUCH! & friends
© 2016 Rio Grande Games
© 2016 HUCH! & friends
Distributor:
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 1033
Placitas, NM 87043, USA
www.riograndegames.com
Editor: Simon Hopp
Made in Germany 
Manufacturer: 
Hutter Trade GmbH + Co KG
Bgm.-Landmann-Platz 1-5, 
89312 Günzburg, GERMANY

2a
2a
4a
4b
4c
4d
5a
5b

C O N T E N T S
1 game board 
18 white basic pieces 
18 black basic pieces 
1 bag
1 rulebook 
The rules are separated into 4 parts:
Basic rules
How to play a basic game of GIPF.
Standard rules
Concerns the standard version and introduces “GIPF”, 
i.e. 2 pieces stacked one upon another.
Tournament rules
The version for advanced players. 
The real game.
Concept and possibilities
Contains information about the project in which GIPF 
is the central game.
The first and central game of 
the GIPF project 
Let’s begin with a comforting notion: GIPF is not hard to learn. 
The length of these rules is not meant to overwhelm you; it is the result of 
our attempt to be as complete as possible, so that every player – even those 
unfamiliar with strategy games – will find an answer to every possible question. 
Do take some time to review these rules. You will discover 
 a pure and challenging game, offering plenty of variation 
and inexhaustible possibilities. 
❶
❷
❸
❹
Tip: To make the pieces easier to 
pick up, use them with the furrow 
upwards (as you can see in this 
illustration).
O
V
D
È
Y
S
H
Ü
C

A G A M E B O A R D
The board shows a pattern of lines. Each line 
is characterized by 2 black dots and a various 
number of intersections with other lines. These 
intersections are called spots.
1/	There are 24 dots at the edges of the pattern on the 
board. Dots are not part of the play area; they are 
used to position a piece before bringing it into play.
2/	In total, the play area (i.e. the central part of the 
board) features 37 spots. Only the pieces covering 
a spot are part of the game.
3/	The thick lines indicate the directions in which 
pieces may be moved.
B S T A R T I N G T H E G A M E
1/	The players draw lots for their color. White begins.
2/	The basic version is played with only 15 pieces per 
player. The remaining 3 pieces can be used to equate 
the strength of the players: the less experienced player 
gets an advantage of 1, 2 or 3 pieces.
3/	The board must be placed between the players in 
such a way that the dot marked “E1” points at the 
player with the white pieces.
4/	The players start the game with 3 pieces each on the 
board. They are placed on the angular dots—with 
the colors alternating—and then moved to the first 
spot towards the center. They are now in play. (See 
illustration 1: Starting Position.)
5/	At the beginning, each player has 12 pieces that 
are not in play yet. Pieces that are not in play are 
hereafter referred to as the reserve.
C G O A L
If a player has no more pieces in his reserve, he 
cannot make any more moves. The goal is to 
capture opponent’s pieces, so that eventually he 
has no pieces left to bring into play.
D A T U R N
The players take turns. Each turn a player must add 
one piece to the game and this must be done in 2 steps: 
first, he takes a piece from his reserve and places it on 
any of the 24 dots (step 1) and then he moves it onto a 
spot in the play area (step 2).
Particulars:
1/	A piece must always first be placed on a dot, 
regardless of the move that will be made. This is 
step 1. A piece is not in play as long as it is covering 
a dot, meaning that the turn is not yet completed.
2/	There are two possibilities for step 2:
	
- A piece can be pushed from a dot to a free spot in 
the play area. As soon as a piece is pushed in the 
direction of a spot, the move must be executed.
	
- A piece can also be pushed from a dot to a spot 
that is already occupied by another piece. In this 
case, the occupied spot must first be cleared: the 
piece occupying it (regardless of its color) must 
be moved to the next spot on the line; if that spot 
is also occupied, then this piece also moves over 
one spot, etc. Finally, the new piece is pushed onto 
the cleared spot. (See illustrations 2a and 2b, 
respectively, for step 1 and step 2.) Note that all 
the pieces are moved in one and the same direction. 
It is advisable not to “push” a row of pieces; always 
move pieces one by one, starting with furthest 
piece in the row. Once a player has touched a piece 
in the play area, the move must be executed.
3/	A piece can move only one spot at a time, never 
two or more.
4/	It is not allowed to push a piece out of the play area, 
i.e. onto the dot at the opposite far end of a line. 
(See illustration 3.)
E T A K I N G P I E C E S
As soon as 4 pieces of the same color are lined up next 
to each other, they must be taken from the board by 
the player with that color. In addition to removing the 
4 pieces, the pieces that form a direct extension of 
these 4 pieces must also be removed. The pieces of the 
player’s own color are returned to his reserve and the 
pieces of the other color are captured, thus lost for the 
opponent. (See illustrations 4a, 4b, 4c and 4d: Black 
takes 4, 5, 6 and 7 pieces from the board, capturing 
0, 1, 1 and 2 white ones respectively.)
Basic rules
❶
Particulars:
1/	Since it is imperative to bring a piece into play each 
turn, a player must try to keep his reserve “alive”. 
To do so, he can capture his own pieces: he may 
return pieces from the board to his reserve, 
provided that he manages to get at least 4 pieces 
of his color in a row.
2/	When 4 pieces of one color are lined up and more 
pieces extend this row, these pieces must also be 
taken from the board, regardless of their color. 
(Note that a vacant spot interrupts a row! See 
again illustrations 4a and 4b.)
3/	As soon as 4 pieces of the same color are lined 
up, it is compulsory to take them from the board 
(included the pieces extending the row). It is of no 
importance which player causes the situation; the 
pieces must always be taken by the player playing 
with the color of the 4 pieces in a row. (See 
illustrations 5a and 5b, i.e. step 1 and step 2: 
White forces Black to return 5 pieces to his reserve.)
4/	It may occur that more than one row of 4 (or more) 
pieces of the same color are lined up at the same 
time. If these rows don’t intersect each other, all 
must be captured; if they do intersect, the player 
playing with that color may choose which row he 
will take. (See illustration 6: Black may choose 
between taking the row with 4 pieces or the one 
with 5 pieces.)
5/	When a situation occurs in which both players 
must take pieces, the player who caused the 
situation goes first. (See illustration 7: White has 
made the move indicated by the arrow and may 
first take pieces; White takes 4 white pieces and 
1 black piece, and then Black must take 4 black 
pieces. If Black would have made that move – 
with a black piece, of course – he would not only 
capture 4 black pieces but 2 white ones as well.)
Removing pieces from the board does not count as 
a turn! (See again illustrations 5a and 5b: White 
forces Black to take pieces; Black takes the pieces 
and then has to make a move.)
F E N D O F T H E G A M E
The game ends when one of the players cannot 
bring a piece into play. Thus, if a player has no pieces 
left in his reserve, the other player is the winner.
Remarks:
1/	Don’t misinterpret the aim of the game; the only 
way to win is by capturing the opponent’s pieces, 
not by returning own pieces repeatedly from the 
board to the reserve!
2/	A tie is not possible. The first player to run out of 
pieces loses the game, even if the other player, too, 
would run out of pieces in his next turn.
3/	A player should always be able to see how many 
pieces the opponent has left in his reserve. Leave 
them clearly visible next to the board.
G S T R A T E G Y
When you learn how to play a new strategy game, 
it often happens that you feel lost in the many 
possibilities. Don’t let this discourage you. Give 
yourself a fair chance and after a few games you 
will notice that your play improves rapidly. Below 
you’ll find a few tips to get you started. We advise 
reading them after having played a first game.
1/	The most important rule for beginners is this: 
a turn always starts by putting a piece on a dot! 
By executing your moves in the dictated 2 steps, 
you will come to recognize the possible movements 
of the pieces even sooner. (This is obligatory 
during tournaments, too.)
2/	There is no side of the board that you can consider 
as your side. Make use of the possibility to attack 
your opponent from all sides—and, of course, be 
conscious (and cautious!) of the fact that your 
opponent will do the same.
3/	Playing GIPF starts with the notion that pieces in 
the play area are more dangerous and effective than 
pieces in reserve. Always try to keep as many pieces 
on the board as possible.
4/	Use the possibility of forcing your opponent to 
capture his own pieces (of course without losing a 
piece yourself). That way you weaken his position in 

the play area, which often creates better possibilities 
for attacking his remaining pieces.
5/	Keep in mind that taking pieces from the board 
implies that a number of occupied spots will no 
longer be occupied. This often causes new (and 
dangerous) openings.
6/	Only at the ending stage of the game does it 
become important to keep a close eye on the 
opponent’s reserve. You will notice that the 
difference between winning and losing often 
depends on having just one more piece in reserve 
than your opponent.
An easy win is not really enjoyable, nor is losing all 
the time. When the difference between two players 
is so vast that it affects the joy of playing, make use 
of the possibility to adjust the number of pieces per 
player according to their strength. (See B. Starting 
the Game, point 2.)
Standard rules
This version is played according to exactly the same 
rules as the basic version, but with the addition of 
GIPF-pieces. A GIPF-piece consists of 2 basic pieces 
stacked one on top of another.
GIPF means “potential”. On the one hand, just as 
in the basic game, a player must comply with the 
rule to bring a piece into play each turn. On the 
other hand, he must also take care that his potential 
(i.e. his GIPF) stays in play. So, a player must 
always have at least one GIPF-piece on the board. 
A GIPF-piece consists of 2 basic pieces, but on the 
board it counts as only 1 piece.
A B E G I N
Both players take 18 basic pieces. The start position 
remains the same but now they start with 
3 GIPF-pieces on the board each. (See illustration 
1: GIPF-pieces instead of basic pieces.)
B G I P F
1/	The difference between a basic piece and a GIPF-
piece is that it is not obligatory to capture a GIPF-
piece (neither your own, nor your opponent’s). In 
other words: when a GIPF-piece (regardless of its 
color) is part of a row that must be taken from 
the board, then a player is free to choose between 
taking it and leaving it on its spot. In most cases 
the choice will amount to taking a GIPF-piece 
only when it belongs to the opponent. But be 
careful: situations will certainly occur in which it 
may be better to deviate from this strategy. (See 
illustration 8: White takes 3 white basic pieces 
and 1 black basic piece; most likely White will 
also take the black GIPF-piece, but leave the 
2 white GIPF-pieces on the board.)
2/	When two rows of at least 4 pieces of the same 
color intersect each other and the spot of 
intersection is occupied by a GIPF-piece, then the 
player may choose whether he will take one or two 
rows from the board. Either he captures only one 
row, including the GIPF-piece on the intersection 
spot (which means there is no second row to be 
taken any more), or he takes one row and leaves 
the GIPF-piece on its spot, thus having to capture 
the second row as well (with or without the GIPF-
piece). (See again illustration 6: as it is, Black has 
to remove only one row. In case the intersection 
spot would be occupied by a GIPF-piece, Black 
would first have to take one row, with or 
without the GIPF-piece; if he decides not to take 
the GIPF-piece, he has to take the second row as 
well—again with or without the GIPF-piece.)
❷
When a player captures a GIPF-piece of his own 
color, it must be returned to the reserve as two 
separate basic pieces. They may not be brought 
into play again as a GIPF-piece.
C E N D O F A G A M E
Now there are two ways of winning: a player must 
succeed in removing the opponent’s GIPF from 
the board (i.e. all of his GIPF-pieces) or he must 
exhaust the opponent’s reserve. In other words: 
the one who has either lost his last GIPF-piece, or 
has no basic piece left to bring into play, loses the 
game.
Tournament rules
The standard game in itself is a complex and difficult 
game to master; it offers so many possibilities that 
not everyone will want even more possibilities. 
Therefore we advise players to look at this variant 
as an option, as an extra challenge; by no means is 
it meant as an obligatory GIPF-exercise.
The Tournament rules only change the beginning 
of the game:
1/	The game starts with an empty board (i.e. there is 
no starting position now). The players each start 
with 18 basic pieces in their reserve.
2/	Both players are obliged to use their first turn to 
bring a GIPF-piece into play. This must be done as 
a standard move: put the GIPF-piece on any of the 
dots and next move it onto a spot in the play area.
3/	The game is played without a fixed number of 
GIPF-pieces per player. The players are completely 
free to also use their second, third, fourth etc. turn 
to bring more GIPF-pieces into play.
4/	Once a player has decided that he has enough 
GIPF-pieces in the play area, he may start playing 
with single pieces. But, as soon as he has brought 
his first single piece into play, he can bring no more 
GIPF-pieces into play during the rest of the game. 
The opponent may still bring GIPF-pieces in play, 
until he also has played his first single basic piece. 
(During this start-up phase, the players take turns 
without interruption, as usual.)
The further game is played according to exactly 
the same rules as the standard game, and to win 
a player pursues the same goals.
❸

1 1
1 0
GIPF is a separate game and should, at first, always 
be seen as such. In addition, it is also the name of a 
project of which the game GIPF is the center. This 
project consists of a series of games and a number 
of extra pieces that are all compatible with GIPF, 
which allows you to combine games and to decide for 
yourself what, exactly, you would like to play.
A C O N C E P T
GIPF is the central game project GIPF. It is played 
solely with basic pieces, but you can add extra pieces 
to it, which means you can expand it. These extra 
pieces are called potentials. A potential is a piece 
that can be grafted onto the basic pieces you use to 
play GIPF. A basic piece “loaded” with such potential 
will allow you to make a move which cannot be made 
with a normal basic piece. Each game of the project 
introduces its own new potential into GIPF.
Potentials can be used either as a number of special 
moves you may make while playing GIPF, or as a 
means to connect one or more games to GIPF. In 
the first case, you may make use of the extra strength 
of a potential at any moment while playing GIPF. In 
the latter case you must win the like-named game to 
obtain the right to use a potential. For example: to be 
allowed to use a ZÈRTZ-potential, you first have to 
win a game of ZÈRTZ. This means that you and your 
opponent interrupt the running game of GIPF to play 
a game of ZÈRTZ; the result will determine whether 
or not you may use the ZÈRTZ-potential when the 
game of GIPF is resumed.
The essence of this system is that you and your 
opponent have a number of pieces on the board that are 
loaded with particular possibilities. These possibilities 
are about special moves, but you are not sure that 
you will be allowed to execute them. In other words: 
you play with pieces that might enable you to make a 
special move, which literally means that only the 
potential of such a move is available—not the move itself.
B P O S S I B I L I T I E S
Maybe you will be tempted to conclude that the 
GIPF project is too complicated and too far-fetched a 
construction. That’s why we stress that the possibility 
to combine games is nothing but an option. Forget all 
about it if it doesn’t appeal to you. Each game of the 
project stands on its own in terms of rules, concept 
and quality. It is exactly this ability of GIPF and all 
other GIPF-related games to be playable as separate 
contests of skill and as a complex composition of 
different strategic elements, that makes them a unique 
series. So, whether you are an occasional player or a 
fanatic gamer, you are completely free to decide for 
yourself that you’ll play the games separately or in 
connection with each other. 
If you would like to make use of the possibility 
to combine them, you will discover a completely 
new way of playing. No other game offers so much 
variation. Each time, you and your opponent will be 
able to compose which version of GIPF you are going 
to play. You can choose the number of basic pieces 
to start with and whether or not you are going to use 
potentials; if so, you can decide to both play with 
the same potentials or maybe you will each choose 
your favorite ones. You can then decide whether you 
connect the use of the potentials to playing other 
games or not, et cetera. You can play for one or two 
hours, or you can take off into an entire evening of 
GIPF; you can play a straight-forward version or 
decide to go for a complex cluster of games; you 
can even make it an adventurous trip, spread over 
several game sessions. In short, the project is a menu 
with components, by means of which you have the 
opportunity to choose à la carte which game of GIPF 
you would like to play at any moment.
GIPF can be combined with every existing two- 
person game, depending on how much time you have 
and what you feel like playing. If you have a game of 
GIPF and at least one set of potentials, you can start 
combining the games you already have somewhere on 
a shelf, no matter what: Dominos, Ludo, or even just 
a deck of cards or an ordinary die. All you have to do 
is connect the use of a certain potential to a certain 
game, or cards or dice or whatever, and start playing. 
❹Concept and possibilities