STOP! If you would prefer to watch a video 
explanation of the rules, please visit 
www.cephalofair.com/gaming-rules-overview

1 Rule Book
18 Character Miniatures
47 Monster Stat Sheets
24 Battle Goal Cards
50 Money Tokens
1 Scenario Book
17 Character Boards
6 Monster Stat Sleeves
24 Personal Quest Cards
46 Damage Tokens
1 Town Records Book
504 Character Ability Cards
150 Event Cards
9 Random Scenario Cards
10 Scenario Aid Tokens
1 Map Board
457 Attack Modifier Cards
253 Item Cards
40 Random Dungeon Cards
4 HP/XP Dials
12 Objective Tokens
4 Player Reference Cards
30 2-Sided Map Tiles
240 Monster Standees
6 Wood Element Discs
32 Summon Tokens
17 Character Pads
1 Party Pad
3 Sealed Envelopes
155 2-Sided Overlay Tiles
232 Monster Ability Cards
35 Character Tuck Boxes
24 Plastic Stands
1 Element Infusion Board
1 Round Tracker
60 Status Tokens
85 Character Tokens
4 Sticker Sheets
Components
Gloomhaven is a cooperative game of battling monsters and advancing a player’s own individual goals. The 
game is meant to be played as part of a campaign, where a group of players will use the accompanying Scenario 
Book to string together a series of adventures, unlocking new content for the game as they progress. Any 
revealed scenario, however, can also function as a highly variable stand-alone experience.
This rule book is split into two parts: The first part will teach you how to play through an individual scenario, 
interacting with monsters and the environment using character ability cards. The second will teach you how to 
use the Scenario Book to link a series of adventures together to create a story of your own choosing, advancing 
your character’s abilities and unlocking new content to further enhance your experience.
Mindthief
MindthiefSpellweaver
SpellweaverCragheart
Cragheart Tinkerer
Tinkerer Scoundrel
Gain 7 or fewer 
points during the 
Layabout
M-1
Player Reference
POISON - Extra damaged when 
attacked and prevents healing. 
Remove when healed.
WOUND - Suﬀ er damage at start of 
turn. Remove when healed.
IMMOBILIZE - Cannot move. Remove 
at end of next turn.
DISARM - Cannot attack. Remove at 
end of next turn.
STUN - Cannot do anything but rest. 
MUDDLE - Disadvantage on attacks. 
CURSE - Gain CURSE attack modiﬁ er 
Player Reference
POISON - Extra damaged when 
attacked and prevents healing. 
Remove when healed.
WOUND - Suﬀ er damage at start of 
turn. Remove when healed.
IMMOBILIZE - Cannot move. Remove 
at end of next turn.
DISARM - Cannot attack. Remove at 
end of next turn.
STUN - Cannot do anything but rest. 
MUDDLE - Disadvantage on attacks. 
CURSE - Gain CURSE attack modiﬁ er 
Retaliate 2
Range - 1
- 1
Even as a child, you could 
feel the call of Xorn. Once 
worshiped as a god, his ﬂ ock 
has long since been destroyed 
and disbanded. But you can 
hear him calling. You will 
travel to Gloomhaven as he 
commands. You will ﬁ nd his 
remains and set him free. 
The plague will once again be 
embraced.
Complete three “Crypt” 
scenarios. Then unlock 
“Noxious Cellar” (Scenario 52) 
and follow it to a conclusion.
Open Box
Seeker of Xorn
10 gold
Mangy
Tile: H1b
Major: MUDDLE 
 all characters permanently.
Minor: MUDDLE 
 all characters.
Sewer
Remove two cards
Add two cards
Add two cards
Add one WOUND card
Add one IMMOBILIZE 
 
Add one Heal 
 2 card
Add one ADD TARGET 
 
Ignore negative scenario 
eﬀ ects
Add three MUDDLE 
Quatryl Tinkerer
STOP! If you would prefer to watch a video 
explanation of the rules, please visit 
www.cephalofair.com/gaming-rules-overview
20x
10x
40x
28x
12x
6x
20x
Dungeon
Summons
When attacked, 
the attacker gains 
Disadvantage on the 
attack.
Leather Armor
During your movement, 
add +2 Move to a
single movement.
Boots of Striding
Swordedge Armor
x4
On the next three sources of 
damage from attacks targeting you, 
gain Shield 1, Retaliate 1.
Boots of Levitation
Gain Flying .
228x
25x
Standard
Conﬁ dent that the wolves pose no signiﬁ cant 
threat, you stand your ground and prepare 
for battle. The pack comes — ragged and 
hungry, slowly emerging from the dark — 
and surrounds your party.
There are more of them than you expected, 
but not enough to take you down. You suﬀ er 
a bite or two, but are able to ﬁ ght them oﬀ .
All start scenario with 3 damage.
You pick up and run as fast as you can 
through the underbrush and away from the 
ominous sounds. They seem to be receding 
as you stumble headlong into some sort of 
thicket ﬁ lled with sticky spines.
You pull yourself out, but not before your 
skin is pierced in numerous places and 
becomes inﬂ amed. Best to avoid this plant in 
the future.
All start scenario with POISON .
PAY 10 COLLECTIVE GOLD: You hand 
over the gold and take hold of the piece of 
garbage. Amidst troubling brown smears you 
see a lot of meaningless scratches likely made 
by rats and bugs. Oh well. Sometimes the 
long shot doesn’t pay oﬀ .
OTHERWISE: “Bah! You don’t have enough. 
Come back when you do!”
You laugh and gesture the Vermling away. 
You can recognize a low-life swindler when 
you see one. And that piece of garbage was 
just...foul. 
As the daylight fades, you ﬁ nd 
yourselves wandering through a 
half-crowded market street, browsing 
wares.
“Hey! Over here!” You turn in the direction 
of the voice to see a ﬁ lthy Vermling gesturing 
from a dark alley. “Yeah, you grim-looking 
chaps. I have something you might be 
interested in.”
The Vermling holds out a piece of metal covered 
in sludge. “Found this in the sewer. Writing on it 
I don’t understand, but I know it’s valuable. You 
can have it for ten gold!”
Option A: Pay for the thing. You never know.
Option B: Refuse to pay. Never trust a Vermling.
69x
81x
Road
City
Trackers
34x
13x
Standard
8x

Play Overview pp.4–12
1.	 Character Mats p.6
2.	 Character Ability Cards p.7
3.	 Item Cards p.8
4.	 Monster Statistic Cards p.9
5.	 Monster Ability Cards p.10
6.	 Battle Goal Cards p.10
7.	 Attack Modifier Cards p.11 
Scenario Setup pp.12–16
1.	 Scenario Page pp.12–13­
2.	 Overlay Tiles pp.14–15
3.	 Scenario Level p.15
4.	 Game Variant: Open Information and 
Solo Play p.16 
Round Overview pp.16–31
1.	 Card Selection pp.16–17
a.	 Resting p.17
2.	 Determining Initiative p.18
3.	 Character Turn pp.18–28
a.	 Move p.19
i.	 Revealing a Room p.19
b.	 Attack pp.19–22
i.	 Advantage and 
Disadvantage pp.20–21
ii.	 Area Effects p.21
iii.	 Attack Effects p.22
c.	 Conditions pp.22–23
d.	 Elemental Infusions pp.23–24
e.	 Active Bonuses pp.25–26
i.	 Shield p.25
ii.	 Retaliate p.26
f.	 Heal p.26
g.	 Summon p.26
h.	 Recover and Refresh p.27
i.	
Loot p.27
i.	 End of Turn Looting p.27
j.	 Gaining Experience pp.27–28
k.	 Character Damage p.28
l.	 Exhaustion p.28
m.	 Items p.28
4.	 Monster Turn pp.29–32
a.	 Order of Action p.29
b.	 Monster Focus pp.29–30
c.	 Monster Movement pp.30–31
i.	 Monster Interaction with Traps 
and Hazardous Terrain p.31
d.	 Monster Attacks p.31
e.	 Other Monster Abilities pp.31–32
f.	 Ambiguity p.32
g.	 Bosses p.32
5.	 End of Round p.32
a.	 Round Tracker p.33 
Finishing a Scenario p.33
Special Scenario Rules p.34
Campaign Overview pp.34–40
1.	 Campaign Board p.35
2.	 Party Sheet p.36
3.	 Character Sheet p.37
4.	 Personal Quest Cards p.38
5.	 Random Item Design Cards p.38
6.	 Random Side Scenario Cards p.38
7.	 City and Road Event Cards p.39
8.	 Sealed Boxes and Envelopes p.40
9.	 Town Records p.40
10.	Achievements p.40 
Playing a Campaign pp.41–47
1.	 Traveling and Road Events pp.41–42
a.	 Completing Road Events pp.41–42
b.	 Reputation p.42
2.	 Visiting Gloomhaven pp.42–48
a.	 Creating New Characters p.42
b.	 Completing City Events p.43
c.	 Buying and Selling Items p.43
d.	 Leveling Up pp.44–45
i.	 Additional Perks p.44
ii.	 Building a Hand 
of Cards p.45
iii.	 Scenario Scaling p.45
e.	 Donating to the Sanctuary p.45
f.	 Enhancing Ability Cards pp.45–47
g.	 Announcing Retirement p.48
h.	 Gloomhaven Prosperity p.48
3.	 Scenario Completion p.49
Special Conditions for Opening Envelopes p.49
Game Variant: Reduced Randomness p.49
Game Variant: Permanent Death p.50
Game Variant: Random Dungeon Deck pp.50–51
Credits p.51
Quick Guide p.52 (back cover)
Table of Contents

Play Overview
The following section will teach you the mechanics for playing through an individual scenario, using the first 
one in the Scenario Book, Black Barrow, as an example. 
During your movement, 
add +2 Move to a
single movement.
When attacked, 
the attacker gains 
Disadvantage on the 
attack.
During your turn, perform 
a “Heal 3, Self” action.
During your turn,
Recover up to two of 
your discarded cards.

THE PLAY AREA INCLUDES: 
A modular board of map tiles  , constructed 
in a specific configuration using the Scenario 
Book as a reference (see Scenario Setup on 
pp. 12–13 for details). The map tiles should be 
laid out with doors   connecting them. The 
configuration of overlay tiles and monsters for the 
first room  should also be set up along with the 
character figures. 
A character mat for each player  and the 
corresponding hand of ability cards for that 
character’s class  , health and experience 
trackers  , character tokens  , a facedown battle 
goal card  , and any equipped item cards  . 
All monster statistic cards  , with their 
corresponding standees, and monster ability 
cards  set to one side in individual shuffled decks. 
Shuffled decks of attack modifier cards for each 
player  and one for the monsters  . A standard 
attack modifier deck consists of twenty cards as 
shown at the top of the page, not the character-
specific modifier cards found in the character boxes. 
A deck, however, may be modified by level-up 
bonuses, items, scenario effects, and the effects of 
the CURSE and BLESS conditions. 
Piles of damage tokens  , money tokens  , and 
condition tokens  . 
The elemental infusion table  with all six elements 
set in the “Inert” column.
Standard Attack Modifier Deck
6x
5x
5x
During your attack, gain 
Advantage on the entire 
During your turn, gain 
INVISIBLE -.
During your attack, add 
+1 Attack to your entire 

Character Mats
When a player begins their journey with the game, he or she will select one of the available character classes 
to play. Only one copy of each character class can be played in any given scenario. Each class has a unique set 
of abilities, so this is an important decision to make. When the box is first opened, the Brute  , Tinkerer   , 
Spellweaver  , Scoundrel  , Cragheart  , and Mindthief   are available. 
Once a character class has been chosen, the player takes the corresponding character mat, character tokens, 
and that character’s starting hand of Level 1 ability cards from the larger tuck box containing the character’s 
symbol, as well as the miniature contained in the smaller character tuck box.
A CHARACTER MAT INCLUDES: 
A portrait  , icon  , and 
name  of the class. 
Indicators of the maximum 
hit points at each level  of 
the class. Players should 
use tracking dials   to 
track their hit points  and 
experience  during a 
The maximum number of 
ability cards the class can 
take into battle  . 
A short reference  for the 
round structure. 
Designations along the 
border  for where to place 
discarded, lost, and active 
cards. 
The reference number of 
the event cards  added 
to each deck when the 
character class is unlocked 
(not present on the six 
starting classes) and of event 
cards  added the first time 
the character class retires 
(see Announcing Retirement 
on p. 48 for details). These 
reference numbers apply 
to both city and road event 
decks.
H 
umans are by far the most dominant of the races, 
spreading across the continent like locusts, erecting 
extravagant cities and disturbing slumbering forces they 
can never hope to understand. The human society is one 
of rules and regulations, but also one of great diversity. 
Due to their intense curiosity and relentless nature, 
humans can find themselves walking almost any path 
imaginable – from the obscenely wealthy noble to the 
unappreciated tavern cook; from the blacksmith forging 
rugged weaponry to the corrupted pursuant of dark 
magics.
It is natural, then, that while many humans work to build 
up complex and constricting bureaucratic societies, 
there are others who reject such societies or even work 
to tear them down. Scoundrels are among this second 
type, wholly unscrupulous and self-serving. Scoundrels 
operate under the assumption that everything in the 
world is theirs to take and they will do whatever is 
necessary to do the taking. Such an attitude manifests 
itself in combat through a vicious opportunism unseen 
in any other culture.
— / 45

Character Ability Cards
Playing ability cards is what allows a character to perform actions in a scenario. Each round players choose 
two ability cards and use the top action of one card and the bottom action of the other card, resulting in two 
actions for each player on his or her turn. All ability cards are specific to a character class and are acquired 
when starting a new character or by leveling up.
AN ABILITY CARD INCLUDES:
The name of the ability  . 
An initiative number  . The initiative number of the 
leading card played determines a player’s order in the 
initiative of a given round (see Determining Initiative 
on p. 18 for more details). 
The level of the class card  . A character starting 
at Level 1 can only use their Level 1 cards (or, 
alternately,   cards), but a character gains more 
powerful cards as they level up to add to their pool of 
available ability cards. 
A top action  and bottom action  . When the 
two ability cards are played on a player’s turn, one is 
used for the top action and the other for the bottom 
action. Note that a single action can contain several 
separate abilities  . (See Character Turn on pp. 
18–28 for more details on character actions.)
Target all enemies moved through
PIERCE 2
Trample

Item Cards
Item cards are acquired by spending gold in between scenarios or looting specific treasure tiles. All item cards 
a character equips will be placed below his or her character mat and can be used during a battle to augment 
his or her abilities. Item cards are not class-specific, so any character can use any item. However, characters 
are limited in the number of items they can equip (bring into a scenario). Each character can equip only 
one  item, one  item, one   item, up to two  items OR one  item, and up to a number of  equal to 
half their level, rounded up. Characters cannot own more than one copy of any item card.
AN ITEM CARD INCLUDES:
The name of the item  and the amount of gold a character 
must pay to acquire the item from the shop  . 
What happens to the card after it is used  .
o	 This symbol   means the item is spent after use, 
which is denoted by rotating the card to its side. Spent 
cards can be refreshed when a character performs 
a long rest (see Resting on p. 17 for more details). 
Sometimes an item is used multiple times before it is 
spent or consumed. This is depicted by use slots  on 
the card and can be tracked using a character token.
o	 This symbol  (not pictured) means the item is 
consumed after use, which is shown by flipping the 
card facedown. Consumed cards can only be refreshed 
during a scenario by specific abilities. All items 
are refreshed between scenarios. No item can be 
permanently consumed.
o	 If a card depicts neither of these symbols, there are 
no restrictions on the number of times it can be used 
during a scenario, other than what is written in the text 
of the card. 
When the item can be used and the bonus gained by the 
character when the item card is used  . 
The equip slot (Head, Body, Legs, One Hand, Two Hands, Small 
Item) the item occupies  . 
Some equipped items add a number of   cards to the 
equipping character’s attack modifier deck at the start of a 
scenario. If this is the case, the number of modifier cards is 
specified on the item  . 
A count of how many of this item are in the game  and 
where this card lies within that count  . 
Reference number for the item  , which is on the back of the 
On the next two sources
of damage from attacks 
targeting you, gain Shield 1.
Hide Armor
x2
Small Item
Two Hands
One Hand
Legs
Body
Head

Monster Statistic Cards
Monster statistic cards give easy access to the base statistics of a given 
monster type for both its normal and elite variants. A monster’s base 
statistics will vary depending on the scenario level (see Scenario Level 
on p. 15 for details). Each edge of the cards, on both sides, reflects the 
statistics for a given scenario level. Rotate or flip the card to show the 
required level.
A MONSTER STATISTIC CARD INCLUDES:
The monster’s name  and level of the statistic set  corresponding to the scenario level. 
Sections for normal  and elite  versions of this monster. 
A monster’s hit point value  , which is the amount of damage that needs to be inflicted on the 
monster before it dies. 
A monster’s movement value  , the base number of hexes a monster can move with a Move action. 
A monster’s attack value  , the base amount of damage the monster does with an Attack action. 
A monster’s range value  , which is the base number of hexes away from the monster’s own hex that 
the monster can reach with an attack or a heal. A “–” as the range value signifies the monster’s normal 
Attack action can only target adjacent hexes (i.e., a melee attack). 
Any special traits this monster type possesses  . These traits are permanent and persist from round to 
round. These traits may include Flying, which is symbolized by     next to the monster’s name (see 
Move on p. 19 for details). 
A monster stat sleeve 
should be used to track 
damage and condition 
tokens and to hide the 
unneeded information 
for other unused levels.
Shield 3
Spirit
Livin
Living Spirit
Level 1 Monster
Level 2 Monster

Monster Ability Cards
Each round, after players have selected their own ability cards, one card is played for each monster type 
currently on the board from their respective decks of monster ability cards. These cards determine which 
abilities each monster of that type—both normal and elite—will perform during the round on its turn.
A MONSTER ABILITY CARD INCLUDES:
The name of the monster type  . Sometimes, 
multiple monster types use the same, more 
generic ability deck. For instance, Bandit Guards, 
City Guards, and Inox Guards all use the same 
“Guard” deck. 
An initiative number  . This number will 
determine when every monster of that type will 
act in a given round (see Determining Initiative on 
p. 18 for details). 
A list of abilities  . A monster will perform each 
of these abilities in the order listed (if possible) and 
then end its turn (see Monster Turn on pp. 29–32 
A shuffle symbol  . If this symbol appears on a 
card, shuffle the corresponding monster’s ability 
discard pile back into the draw deck at the end of 
the round.
Battle Goal Cards
At the beginning of every scenario, each 
character receives two battle goal cards in 
secret and chooses one to keep, discarding 
the other. If the scenario is successfully 
completed and the character meets the criteria 
of the chosen card  , he or she will earn a 
number of checkmarks as specified on the 
bottom of the card  . Checkmarks are used 
to enhance a player’s attack modifier deck 
(see Additional Perks on p. 44 for details). If 
the scenario resulted in failure, the character 
receives nothing from his or her battle goal card, 
regardless of whether the goal was achieved. 
Players can keep track of their battle goal 
progress using notes if necessary. Players should 
keep their battle goals secret from one another 
until the scenario is over.
Have ﬁ ve or more 
total cards in your 
hand and discard 
at the end of the 
Streamliner
- 2

Attack Modifier Cards
AN ATTACK MODIFIER CARD INCLUDES:
Any time an Attack ability is performed, a separate attack modifier card is drawn for 
each individual target of the attack. Players draw from the personal attack modifier 
deck for their chosen character and monsters draw from a collective monster deck. 
The modifier listed on the card is then applied to the attack, possibly reducing or 
increasing its numerical value.
The value of the modifier for the attack  . A “Null” symbol   means that no damage is done by the attack. A 
“2x” symbol   means the attack value is doubled.
Conditions, elemental infusions, or other special effects of the attack  . If the attack modifier of the card 
is +0, the special effect is shown in the center circle of the card  . Otherwise, it is shown to the left of the 
modifier value  . When these special effects are activated, they function exactly as if they had been written 
on the action card being used for the attack.
A rolling modifier symbol   indicates that an additional modifier card should be drawn. 
Modifier cards are then drawn until a rolling modifier is not revealed, at which point all the 
drawn modifiers are added together.
A special BLESS  or CURSE  border. If a BLESS or CURSE card is 
drawn, it should be removed from the player’s deck instead of being 
placed into the discard. Curse cards also have either a  or an  to 
denote whether they can be placed in the monster attack modifier 
deck  , or a character's attack modifier deck  .
A shuffle symbol  . At the end of the round in which a “Null”   or “2x”   card is drawn 
from a deck, players will shuffle all the played modifier cards back into that particular draw deck. 
This shuffling also happens if a modifier card must be drawn and there are none left in the draw 
pile.
Add “PUSH 2” and the earth element effects to your attack, 
then increase your attack value by 2.
=
A type icon  . All standard attack modifier decks have a 1, 2, 3, 4, or M icon  for easy sorting, such that all 
cards with a given icon form the standard 20-card deck. All cards a character class adds to their modifier decks 
through perks (see Leveling Up on pp. 44–45 for details) have the symbol of that character class  . Cards 
added to a modifier deck by a scenario or item effect have a  icon  . These cards should be removed at the 
end of a scenario.

Scenario Page
A SCENARIO PAGE INCLUDES:
The name  , reference 
number  , and grid 
location   of the scenario 
with completion check box. 
Any achievements  required 
to play the scenario in a 
campaign. 
The victory conditions  . 
When playing the scenario 
as part of a campaign, the 
page provides introductory 
text   , additional story 
points  that are read when 
entering the corresponding 
hex on the board  , and 
concluding text  to be read 
when the victory condition is 
met. 
The name, reference 
number, and grid location 
of any new scenario 
locations  unlocked by 
completing the scenario 
within a campaign. 
Any other rewards  earned 
by completing the scenario 
when in a campaign. 
When setting up a new scenario, the first step is to look in the scenario book to set up the map tiles and 
prepare all the monster types you will be fighting. Then read the introduction text and apply any negative 
scenario effects from the “Special Rules” section. Next, two battle goals should be dealt to each player, one of 
which will be discarded. Players can then decide which items they would like to equip from the collection of 
items they own (adding in -1 cards to their attack modifier decks when applicable). Next, players should decide 
which ability cards they would like to put in their hand, choosing from the pool of those available to them. A 
player must select a number of cards equal to his or her character’s hand size. When first starting the game, a 
player’s hand should only consist of the set of Level 1  ability cards for the character’s class. Once a player 
has become familiar with the class, he or she can begin substituting out Level 1 cards for the more complex 
cards with  as the level. Once the character begins to level up, he or she will also get access to higher level 
cards to add to his or her hand by pulling others out. After players select their hand, any effects of a preceding 
road event or city event are applied (see Traveling and Road Events on p. 41 for details).
Scenario Setup
L1a
G1b
I1b
Maps :
Treasure 
Tile (x1)
Bandit
Table (x2)
Bandit
Damage
Trap (x2)
Living
Bones
Links: Barrow Lair – #2
Black Barrow
First Steps
Party Achievement :
Barrow Lair 2 (G-11)
New Location :
With the last bandit dead, you take a moment 
to catch your breath and steel yourself against 
the visions of living remains ripping at your 
flesh. Your target is not among the dead, and 
you shudder to think what horrors still await 
you in the catacombs below. 2
Conclusion :
Kicking through the door, you find yourself 
face-to-face with the reason these bandits 
chose this particular hole to nest in: animate 
bones—unholy abominations of necromantic 
power.
Nothing more to do but lay them to rest 
along with the remainder of this troublesome 
rabble.
The hill is easy enough to find—a short 
journey past the New Market Gate and you see 
it jutting out on the edge of the Corpsewood, 
looking like a rat under a rug. Moving closer 
you see the mound is formed from a black 
earth. Its small, overgrown entrance presents 
a worn set of stone stairs leading down into 
the darkness. 
As you descend, you gratefully notice light 
emanating from below. Unfortunately, the 
light is accompanied by the unmistakable 
stench of death. You contemplate what kind 
of thieves would make their camp in such a 
horrid place as you reach the bottom of the 
steps. Here you find your answer—a rough 
group of cutthroats who don’t seem to have 
taken very kindly to your sudden appearance. 
One in the back matches the description of 
your quarry.
“Take care of these unfortunates,” he says, 
backing out of the room. You can vaguely 
make out his silhouette as he retreats down a 
hallway and through a door to his left.
“Well, it’s not every day we get people stupid 
enough to hand-deliver their valuables to us,” 
grins one of the larger bandits, unsheathing a 
rusty blade. “We’ll be killing you now.” 
Joke’s on them. If you had any valuables, you 
probably wouldn’t be down here in the first 
place.
Introduction :
Kill all enemies
Goal : 
None
Requirements : 
# 1
G-10
s
t
u
v
r

Any locations the scenario links to (  ; see Traveling and Road Events on pp. 41–42 for details). 
The configuration of map tiles  and door tiles  to be placed during setup. The specific map tiles 
needed for each scenario are also given  . Each scenario map is broken up into separate rooms by 
door overlay tiles. A room may contain more than one map tile if those tiles are connected by other 
overlay tiles. 
Indications used to populate the 
scenario map  based on the 
monster key  . These indications 
may be in one of two different 
orientations depending on the 
overall orientation of the map. 
Monster placement is indicated 
in a symbol’s upper left for two 
characters, upper right for three 
characters and bottom for four 
characters. BLACK means the 
monster is not present, WHITE 
means a normal monster is present, 
and GOLD means an elite monster 
is present. Normal monsters should 
be placed on the map with their 
corresponding standees in white 
bases, and elite monsters should be 
placed in gold bases.
Example:   /   indicates which type of monster 
is placed on this hex, and in this case no monster is 
placed in for two characters, a normal monster is 
placed for three characters, and an elite monster is 
placed for four characters.
Note that only monsters in the starting room are placed at the beginning of a scenario. Monster 
standees each have a number to determine the order in which they act during the turn (see Order of 
Action on p. 29 for details). The standee numbers should be randomized when placed.
The available starting character locations, depicted by     . Players can choose to place their 
figures on any empty  hex at the start of the scenario. 
The type of traps used in this scenario  and the reward for looting any treasure tiles on the board  . 
The numbers for the treasures are referenced in the back of the Scenario Book, so that rewards are kept 
secret. 
Locations of money tokens  and overlay tiles  to be placed on the map when the room tile is 
revealed.
No Monster
Normal Monster
Elite Monster
r
s
u
v
t

TYPES OF OVERLAY TILES:
Doors . A door acts as a separation between two rooms. When a character 
moves onto a closed door tile, they immediately flip over the door tile to the open 
side, revealing the adjacent room tile. Immediately place overlay tiles, monsters, 
and money tokens as indicated in the scenario description for the revealed room. 
While closed doors do not hinder character movement at all, they act as a wall 
for any monsters or character-summoned figures, and figures cannot be forced 
through a closed door. Open doors do not hinder any movement and cannot be 
closed. Door art varies by environment type, but they all function exactly the same. 
Corridors . A corridor is placed on the connection of two map tiles to cover the 
walls and create a single room out of multiple map tiles. Corridors act like normal 
empty hexes. 
Traps . A trap is sprung when a figure enters its hex with normal or forced 
movement. Flying  and Jump  movements are unaffected by traps. When a 
trap is sprung, it inflicts some negative effect on the figure who sprung it and then 
it is removed from the board. A trap can also be disarmed through specific actions 
to remove it from the board without suffering its negative effects. Trap effects are 
varied and are specified in the Scenario Book. If part of a trap’s effect is listed as 
“damage,” the trap will inflict 2+L damage on the affected figure, where L is the 
scenario level. Characters and monsters can also create traps on the board, with 
the effects specified by the ability that creates the trap. Whenever a trap is placed 
on the board, tokens for the damage and effects the trap applies should be placed 
on top of the trap tile for easy reference. 
Hazardous terrain . If a figure enters a hex with hazardous terrain via normal 
or forced movement, each hex will inflict half the damage of a trap (rounded 
down). Flying  and Jump  movements are unaffected by hazardous terrain. 
Unlike traps, hazardous terrain does not get removed after its effect is applied, but 
instead remains on the board indefinitely. Starting a turn on or exiting these hexes 
does not cause additional damage. 
Difficult terrain . It takes a figure two normal movement points to enter a hex 
with difficult terrain. Flying  , Jump  , and forced movements are unaffected by 
difficult terrain. 
Obstacles . Obstacles have varying artwork, but they all have the same function: 
figures cannot move through obstacles with a normal movement, but can move 
through them with a Flying  or Jump  movement. Obstacles do not hinder 
ranged attacks. It is possible for certain character abilities to create or move 
obstacles. When doing so, players can never completely cut off one area of the 
scenario map from another, such that the area cannot be moved into without going 
through the obstacles. 
Overlay Tiles
A scenario is constructed from a set of map tiles as instructed in the Scenario Book. Additionally, there will be 
special overlay tiles to fill out the encounter.

Treasure . Treasure tiles can be looted by a player (see Loot on p. 27 for details) 
for a variety of effects. There are two types of treasure tiles: “goal” tiles and 
numbered tiles. Goal tiles are important for the completion of a scenario, and 
the rules for looting them will be specified by the scenario. “Goal” tiles are reset 
every time a scenario is played. Numbered tiles can provide a number of different 
benefits. When one is looted, the looting player should immediately reference 
the number of the tile with the treasure index in the back of the scenario book 
to discover what was looted. If a specific item name is listed, find this item in 
the deck of unique items and immediately add it to your pool of items. If an item 
design is listed, find all copies of that item and add them to the city’s available 
supply. Numbered treasure tiles can only be looted once. After they have been 
looted, they should be crossed off in the Scenario Book as a reminder.
Monster base statistics, trap damage, the amount of gold received from money tokens, and the amount of 
bonus experience for completing a scenario are all dependent on the level of the scenario being played. The 
scenario level is chosen by the players before the scenario begins and is based on the average level of the 
party and how difficult the players want the scenario to be.
Scenario Level
Gold 
conversion
Trap
damage
Easy
-1
Normal
+0
Hard
+1
Very Hard
+2
Difficulty
Level modification
A scenario’s level can be set to any number from 0 to 
7, but cannot be changed once the scenario begins. 
The recommended scenario level is equal to the 
average level of the characters in the party, divided by 
2 and rounded up; this would be considered “Normal” 
difficulty. If players desire an “Easy” experience, they 
can reduce the recommended scenario level by 1. If a 
more difficult experience is desired, the scenario level 
can be raised by 1 for “Hard” or 2 for “Very Hard.”
Example: If a party contains a Level 6 character, two Level 4 characters, and a Level 3 character, the average 
would be 4.25; divided by 2 and rounded up is 3, so a normal scenario difficulty level would be 3. The choice of 
scenario level is completely up to the players. Higher scenario levels will result in more difficult monsters, but will 
also yield more gold and experience.

Round Overview
A scenario consists of a series of rounds that are played until players either meet the victory conditions of the 
scenario or fail the scenario. A round consists of the following steps:
1.	 Card selection: Each player will either select two cards from his or her hand to play or declare he or she 
is performing a long rest action for the round. 
2.	 Determining initiative: Players reveal their cards for the round, and an ability card for each monster 
type currently in play is also revealed. An initiative order is then determined based on the initiative 
values of these revealed cards. 
3.	 Character and monster turns: Starting with the lowest initiative, players and monsters will act out their 
turns, performing the actions on their cards, possibly modified by character item cards. 
4.	 Cleanup: Some cleanup may be required at the end of the round (see End of Round on p. 32 for details).
Card Selection
At the beginning of a round, each player will secretly select two cards from his or her hand to play facedown in 
front of them. Of the two cards, one should be selected as the leading card, which will determine the player’s 
order in the initiative for the round (see Determining Initiative on p. 18 for details).
Game Variant: Open Information and Solo Play
A single player can play the game as 
a solo experience by controlling two 
or more characters at once. Part of 
the game’s difficulty, however, comes 
from not knowing exactly what the 
other characters will be doing on their 
turn. Because a solo player has precise 
information about what each character 
is doing and can coordinate more 
effectively, the game becomes easier. 
To compensate for this, solo players 
should increase the monster level and 
trap damage by 1 for any given scenario 
without increasing gold conversion and 
bonus experience. 
Additionally, if they wish, a group of players may also play with fully open information by increasing the 
difficulty in the same way as for solo play. Playing with open information means that players can share the 
exact contents of their hands and discuss specific details about what they plan on doing. This is not the 
recommended way to play the game, but it may be desirable for certain groups.
Gold 
conversion
Trap
damage

During a player’s turn, the two played cards will be used to perform actions and then are 
either discarded, lost, or activated, depending on the actions that were taken. Played 
cards are normally placed in a player’s discard pile unless otherwise noted. Discarded 
cards can be returned to a player’s hand through resting (see below). If the performed 
action from a card contains a  symbol in the lower right of the action field, the card 
is instead placed in a player’s lost pile. Lost cards can only be returned to a player’s hand 
during a scenario by using a special recover action. Whether the corresponding card is 
lost or discarded, some actions may contain an active effect (denoted by the symbols at 
right). Instead of being placed in the discard or lost pile, the card is placed in the active 
area in front of the player to keep track of the effect. Once the effect wears off, the card 
is then transferred to the appropriate pile (see Active Bonuses on pp. 25–26 for details).
Players must either play two cards from their hand or declare a long rest action at the 
beginning of every round. If a player only has one card or no cards in their hand, the 
long rest action is their only option. If this option is also not available at the beginning 
of a round because a player has only one card or no cards in their discard pile as well, 
that player is considered exhausted and can no longer participate in the scenario (see 
Exhaustion on p. 28 for details).
RESTING
Short rest: During the cleanup step of a round, a player can perform a short rest. This allows that player 
to immediately shuffle his or her discard pile and randomly place one of the cards in the lost pile, then 
return the rest of the discarded cards to his or her hand. If the player would like to instead keep the 
card that was randomly lost, he or she can choose to suffer 1 damage and randomly lose a different 
discarded card, but this can only be done once per rest. 
Long rest: A long rest is declared during the card selection step of a round and constitutes the player’s 
entire turn for the round. Resting players are considered to have an initiative value of 99. On the 
player’s turn, at the end of the initiative order, he or she must choose to lose one of his or her discarded 
cards, then return the rest of the discarded cards to his or her hand. The resting character also 
performs a “Heal  2, Self” action and refreshes all of his or her spent item cards.
Players should not show other players the cards in their hands nor give specific information about any 
numerical value or title on any of their cards. They are, however, allowed to make general statements about 
their actions for the round and discuss strategy.
Examples of appropriate communication: “I’m attacking this guard near the middle of the round.”; 
“I’m planning on moving here and healing you pretty early in the round, hopefully before the monsters 
attack.” 
Examples of inappropriate communication: “You’ll need lower than an initiative 17 to go before me.”; 
“I should be doing 4 points of damage to the bandit, so you don’t have to worry about him.”; “I’m going 
to use Impaling Eruption and wipe out everyone.” 
Resting is the main way players can return discarded cards back into their hand of available cards. A player has 
two options when resting: a short rest or a long rest. In both cases, the rest action can only be taken if a player 
has two or more cards in his or her discard pile, and a rest action always results in losing one of the discarded 
cards.
Persistent 
Round Bonus
Active Effects

Character Turn
On a character’s turn, he or she will perform the top action of one of the two ability cards played and the 
bottom action of the other. The leading card designation used to determine initiative is no longer significant. 
Either card can be played first for its top or bottom action. When playing a card’s action, the abilities of the 
action must be done in the order written and can’t be interrupted by the action on the other card. As soon 
as the action of a card is completed, it is immediately placed in the appropriate area (discard pile, lost pile, or 
active area) before anything else happens. Players are typically free to choose not to perform any part of the 
action on their card, however, they must perform any part that will cause a negative effect (e.g., reduce hit 
points, lose cards, or cause a negative condition) on themselves or their allies. 
An ally is any figure that fights with a character. This term includes summoned 
figures, but does not include the character itself. Abilities cannot affect allies 
unless the card or rules specify otherwise.
Players can also use any card they play as an “Attack 2” action 
on the top half or a “Move 2” action on the bottom. If a card is 
used this way, it is always discarded, regardless of what is printed 
on the card. On their turn, before, during, or after performing 
their two actions, players can use any number of items they have 
equipped.
Determining Initiative
After players have either selected their two action cards or declared a long rest, the players reveal a monster 
ability card for each type of monster that has at least one figure currently on the map. In addition, each player 
not taking a long rest reveals his or her selected cards for the round, placing their leading card on top so that 
its initiative value is visible.
Initiative order is determined by comparing the initiative values on all played monster ability cards and all of 
the players’ leading cards. Whoever has the lowest initiative value takes their turn first, then the next highest, 
and so on until every figure on the board has acted. When a monster type takes an action, each monster 
of that type will perform the actions listed on their played ability card, starting with elites and then normal 
monsters in ascending standee order. 
If there is ever a tie in initiative between players, consult the non-leading card of each player to break the tie. 
(If there is still a tie, players should decide among themselves who goes first.) If there is a tie between a player 
and a monster type, the player goes first. If there is a tie between two monster types, the players decide which 
goes first.
Example: At the start of the round, the Brute 
decides that he wishes to play the two cards 
shown. He also decides he wants to go late in the 
round, so he choses the “61” as his leading card. If 
he had wanted to go early, he could have chosen 
the “15” as the leading card. The Scoundrel reveals 
a leading card with “86” initiative, and the played 
Living Bones and Bandit Archer monster ability 
cards have “45” and “32” initiative respectively. 
The Bandit Archers activate first, then all of the 
Living Bones, then the Brute, and finally the 
Scoundrel.
STUN -
Shield Bash
STUN -
Shield Bash
The next time you suﬀ er damage this 
round, suﬀ er no damage instead.
Add +X Attack 
where X is double
the Shield value of the target.
Trickster’s Reversal
PUSH 2
Target one adjacent enemy
Overwhelming Assault
On your next four attacks targeting enemies 
adjacent to none of their allies, add +2 Attack .
Add +2 Attack 
 and gain 
 when the 
target is adjacent to any of your allies.
Single Out
Range - 1
Initiative Icon

MOVE
ATTACK
A “Move X” ability allows a character to move up to X number of hexes on the map. Figures 
(characters and monsters) can move through allies, but cannot move through enemies or 
obstacles. Traps and other terrain effects of hexes must be resolved when a figure enters them 
with normal movement. A figure cannot end its movement in the same hex as another figure. 
Figures can never move through walls.
Some Move abilities are specified as a “Jump.” Move X (Jump) allows the character to ignore 
all figures and terrain effects during their movement. However, the last hex of a jump is still 
considered a normal movement, and so must obey the normal movement rules above.
Some figures may also have the “Flying” special trait. This allows figures to completely ignore 
any figures and terrain tiles during any part of their movement, including the last hex, except 
that they still must end their movement in an unoccupied hex (no figures present). This includes 
forced movement like PUSH or PULL. If a figure loses its Flying trait while occupying an obstacle 
hex, it takes damage as if it had sprung a damage trap and then moves immediately to the 
nearest empty hex (no figures, tokens, or overlay tiles of any kind present except corridors, 
pressure plates, and open doors).
Ranged attacks are accompanied by a “Range Y” value, which means any enemy within Y 
hexes can be targeted by the attack. Any ranged attack targeting an adjacent enemy gains 
Disadvantage against that target (see Advantage and Disadvantage on pp. 20–21 for details). 
Melee attacks have no accompanying range value and are considered to have a default 
range of 1 hex, which means they typically target adjacent enemies.
Line-of-sight: All ranged and melee attacks can only be performed against enemies within 
line-of-sight, which means that a line can be drawn from any corner of the attacker’s hex to any 
corner of the defender’s hex without touching any part of a wall (the line edge of a map tile 
or the entire area of any partial hex along the edge of a map tile, unless covered by an overlay 
tile). Only walls block line-of-sight. In addition, any ability which specifies a range can only be 
performed on a figure within line-of-sight. If a non-attack ability does not specify a range, 
then line-of-sight is not required. Also note that two hexes separated by a wall line are not 
considered adjacent, and range cannot be counted through walls. 
REVEALING A ROOM
During any part of a character’s movement, if they enter a tile with a closed door, flip the door tile to the 
opened side and immediately reveal the adjacent room on the other side of the door. The Scenario Book will 
then specify what monsters, money tokens, and special overlay tiles should be placed in the revealed room, 
based on the number of characters (including exhausted characters). Note that, as in scenario setup, the 
standee numbers of the monsters in the new room should be randomized when placed. It is possible to run out 
of specific types of monster standees when revealing a room. If this happens, place only the standees that are 
available, starting with the monsters closest to the revealing character.
Once everything is placed in the new room, any present monster types without an action card should have one 
drawn for them now. Once the revealing character’s turn ends, the initiative values of all monsters in the new 
room are reviewed, and any monster type that has a lower initiative value than the revealing character (i.e., 
they should have acted earlier in the round) must immediately act out their turn (in normal initiative order in 
case of multiple monster types in this situation). This ensures that all monsters revealed in the new room will 
always take a turn in the round in which they are revealed.
An “Attack X” ability allows a character to do a base X amount of damage to an enemy within 
their range. Figures cannot attack their allies. There are two types of attacks: ranged and melee.

ADVANTAGE AND DISADVANTAGE
Some attacks may have either Advantage or Disadvantage.
An attacker with Advantage will draw two modifier cards from their 
deck and use whichever one is better  . If one rolling modifier card 
was drawn, its effect is added to the other card played  . If two rolling 
modifier cards were drawn, continue to draw cards until a rolling modifier 
is not drawn and then add together all drawn effects  . 
An attacker with Disadvantage will draw two modifier cards from 
their deck and use whichever one is worse  . Rolling modifiers are 
disregarded in the case of Disadvantage  . If two rolling modifier cards 
were drawn, continue to draw cards until a rolling modifier is not played 
and then only apply the effect of the last card drawn  . 
When attacking, the base attack value written on the card can be modified by three types of values in the 
following order. Repeat these steps for each individual enemy targeted by the attack: 
An attacker’s attack modifiers are applied first. These modifiers include bonuses and penalties from 
active ability cards, items, and other sources (e.g., +1 Attack from POISON). 
Next, an attack modifier card is drawn from the attacker’s attack modifier deck and applied. 
Lastly, the defender’s defensive bonuses are applied. This reduces the incoming attack value for each 
individual enemy targeted based on each defender’s own shield modifier or other defensive bonuses. 
If there are multiple modifiers in any single step of this process, the player chooses the order in which 
they are applied. Also note that because the bonuses are applied per target, it is possible for the same 
attack action to ultimately deal different damage to each enemy it targets. 
Example: The Scoundrel performs an “Attack 3” ability on an adjacent elite Bandit Guard. The Scoundrel adds a 
+2 attack modifier because of specific conditions set by the card and also is allowed to double the attack because 
of an active card in front of her. She chooses to add the +2, then doubles the result, resulting in an “Attack 10.” 
She then plays an attack modifier card to reveal a “-1,” so the attack is reduced to 9. Finally, the Bandit Guard 
has a shield value of 1, so the attack value is reduced to 8 and the bandit suffers 8 damage.
Any damage suffered by a monster should be tracked on the stat sleeve in the section corresponding to the 
number on the specific monster’s standee. When a monster is brought to zero or fewer hit points by an attack 
or any source of damage, that monster immediately dies and is removed from the board. Any additional effects 
of an attack are not applied once a monster dies.
When a monster dies, a money token is also placed on the hex where it died if the monster was not 
summoned or spawned.
2/2
During your attack, gain 
Advantage on the entire 
Eagle-Eye Goggles
Example of an ability 
giving Advantage

AREA EFFECTS
Some attacks and other abilities allow figures to target multiple hexes or multiple targets at the same time. In 
these cases, the area of effect for the ability is shown on the ability card. Note that any rotational orientation 
of the depicted diagram is valid. Also note that each target constitutes a separate attack (drawing its own 
attack modifier card), but all attacks together make up a single attack action. 
Some attacks are accompanied by a “Target X” value, which means the character can target X 
number of different enemies within the attack’s range with the attack.
If there is ambiguity about which card drawn is better or worse, use whichever card was drawn first. Ambiguity 
can occur when comparing one or more added effects provided by attack modifier cards (e.g., elemental 
infusions, negative conditions, etc.) All added effects should be considered to have a positive but undefined 
numerical value.
Instances of Advantage and Disadvantage are mostly gained by specific character or monster abilities. However, 
any ranged attack targeting an adjacent enemy also gains Disadvantage for that target. Instances of Advantage 
or Disadvantage don’t stack, and if an attack has instances of both Advantage and Disadvantage, they cancel 
out each other and the attack is performed normally.
Attack 4
Gain for each
enemy targeted.
Example: This attack indicates that the 
figure can perform a ranged “Attack 4” on 
a cluster of three hexes as long as at least 
one of those hexes is within Range 3.
Example: This attack indicates that the 
figure can perform a melee “Attack 3” on 
the cluster of three hexes. 
Grey indicates the hex on which the figure is currently located. An area 
attack which includes a grey hex is always considered a melee attack. 
Red indicates the hexes with enemies affected by the ability. 
For a ranged area attack, only one of the red hexes needs to be within the range specified, and it does not 
need to contain an enemy. However, for both ranged and melee area attacks, you can only attack enemies 
in hexes you have line of sight to.
For any attack that targets multiple enemies, an attack modifier card is drawn for each target. It is not possible 
to target the same enemy with multiple attacks from the same ability. Note: Abilities can never target allies 
(positive abilities meant for allies will use the term “affect” instead of “target”). An ally can be within the 
affected area of an attack, but they will not be targeted by it. 
Note also that as long as an attack does not specify range, it is considered melee, such that it is possible to 
attack a non-adjacent target with a melee attack if hex configuration allows.

ATTACK EFFECTS
Attack abilities will often have effects that increase their power. If an attack effect is listed on an ability card 
after an attack, the target (or targets) of the attack is subject to the additional effect as well, after damage 
from the attack is resolved. Attack effects are applied regardless of whether the corresponding attack does 
damage. These effects (except experience gains) are optional and can be skipped. Some character actions can 
also apply these effects without an attack, and in such cases the target of the effect is written on the ability 
PUSH X – The target is forced to move X hexes in a direction specified by the attacker, but each 
hex moved must place the target farther away from the attacker than it was previously. If there 
are no viable hexes into which to push the target, the push ends. The target can be pushed 
through its allies, but not its enemies. 
PULL X – The target is forced to move X hexes in a direction specified by the attacker, but each hex 
moved must place the target closer to the attacker than it was previously. If there are no viable 
hexes into which to pull the target, the pull ends. The target can be pulled through its allies, but 
not its enemies. Both push and pull effects are considered movements, however, they are not 
affected by difficult terrain. 
PIERCE X – Up to X points of the target’s Shield are ignored for the attack. Unlike other effects, 
PIERCE is applied while calculating the accompanying attack damage instead of afterwards. 
Example: an Attack 3 PIERCE 2 ability used on a monster with Shield 3 would ignore two of 
the monster’s Shield points and inflict 2 damage (modified by an attack modifier card).
ADD TARGET – If a figure triggers this effect with an attack action, the figure may add an 
additional target within range to their attack. All added effects and conditions of the attack action 
are applied to the target, as well, except for effects that would result in additional targets outside 
of the original added target (e.g., area attacks). 
POISON – If a figure is poisoned, all enemies add +1 Attack to all of their attacks targeting the 
figure. If a Heal ability is used on a poisoned figure, the POISON token is removed, and the Heal 
has no other effect. 
WOUND – If a figure is wounded, it suffers one point of damage at the start of each of its turns. If 
a Heal ability is used on a wounded figure, the WOUND token is removed and the Heal continues 
normally. If a figure is both poisoned and wounded, a Heal ability would remove both conditions 
but have no other effect. 
IMMOBILIZE – If a figure is immobilized, it cannot perform any move abilities on its turn. At the 
end of its next turn, the IMMOBILIZE token is removed. 
CONDITIONS
Certain abilities may apply conditions to their targets. When a condition is applied to a figure (except CURSE 
and BLESS), the respective token is placed on the stat sleeve in the section corresponding the number on the 
specific monster’s standee to signify the effect. The condition remains on the figure until the requirements for 
removing the specific effect are met. Only one of each condition type may be applied to any single figure at a 
time, however conditions can be reapplied to refresh their duration.
The following are negative conditions. If an ability has the name of one of these conditions contained within it, 
then the condition is applied to all targets of the ability, after the main effect of the ability is applied. Conditions 
are applied regardless of whether the corresponding attack does damage.

CURSE – If a figure is cursed, it must shuffle a CURSE card into its remaining 
attack modifier deck. When this card is revealed through one of the figure’s 
attacks, it is removed from the deck instead of being placed into the attack 
modifier discard pile. Note that there are two separate curse decks: 10 cards 
with a  in the lower left corner and 10 cards with an  .   cards can only 
be placed in the monster attack deck (when a monster is cursed), and  cards can only be placed 
in a character's attack deck (when a character or character summon is cursed). Thus, a maximum 
of only 10 curse cards can be placed into any one deck. 
INVISIBLE – If a figure is invisible, it cannot be focused on or targeted by an enemy. Invisibility does 
not affect a figure’s interactions with his or her allies. At the end of its next turn, the INVISIBLE 
token is removed. Monsters treat invisible characters exactly as if they were obstacles. 
STRENGTHEN – If a figure is strengthened, it gains Advantage on all of its attacks. At the end of its 
next turn, the STRENGTHEN token is removed. 
DISARM – If a figure is disarmed, it cannot perform any attack abilities on its turn. At the end of its 
next turn, the DISARM token is removed. 
STUN – If a figure is stunned, it cannot perform any abilities or use items on its turn except to 
perform a long rest (in the case of characters). At the end of its next turn, the STUN token is 
removed. Players must still play two cards or rest on their turn, and if a player plays two cards 
while stunned, the actions played are not used, and the cards are simply discarded. 
MUDDLE – If a figure is muddled, it gains Disadvantage on all of its attacks. At the end of its next 
turn, the MUDDLE token is removed. 
BLESS – If a figure is blessed, it must shuffle a BLESS card into its remaining 
attack modifier deck. When this card is revealed through one of the figure’s 
attacks, it is removed from the deck instead of being placed into the attack 
modifier discard pile.
ELEMENTAL INFUSIONS
Some abilities have an elemental affinity associated with them (either Fire, Ice, Air, Earth, Light, or Dark). If 
any of these symbols is visible by itself in an action’s description  , it means that by performing any part 
of the action, the figure must infuse the battlefield with that element. This is represented by moving the 
corresponding element’s token to the “Strong” column of the elemental infusion table at the end of the turn in 
which the ability was used.
The following are positive conditions. Figures can apply positive conditions to themselves or allies through 
specific actions. Positive conditions cannot be prematurely removed.
Move 3
Target 3
Gain for each enemy targeted.
Fire Orbs

At the end of every round, however, all elemental infusions 
will wane, moving one step to the left in the table, from 
“Strong” to “Waning” or from “Waning” to “Inert.”
Elemental infusions can be used to augment the effects of 
certain abilities. This augment is represented by an elemental 
symbol covered with a red    , followed by a colon and 
how the ability is augmented if the element is consumed. If an 
ability is used that consumes an element and the corresponding 
element token is in the Strong or Waning column, that element 
token may be used to augment the ability by moving the token to 
the Inert column. A single icon cannot be used to consume more 
than one infusion, and it is not possible to create an element 
and consume it on the same turn, but it may be consumed by 
anyone with a later turn in the initiative order of the same round. 
If an ability contains multiple separate augments, the player may 
choose which augments to use in any order. If a single augment 
lists multiple element uses, all elements must be used to activate 
the augment.
Just like characters, monsters also have the ability to create 
and consume elements. Monsters always consume elements if 
they can, and every activated monster of that type will gain the 
benefit of the consumed element, not just the first monster to 
consume it. 
This multi-colored circle represents any single one of the six elements. If this symbol is present 
on a monster’s ability card, the players choose which element is created or consumed.
Attack 2
Range 2
Range 2
Flame Strike
Fire
Earth
Ice
Light
Air
Dark
Elemental Infusion Table

Example: The Spellweaver plays her Frost Armor 
ability, which negates the next two sources of 
damage against her. She places a character token 
on the first circle of the card  . Then each time 
afterward that she normally would suffer 1 or 
more points of damage, the bonus is applied, 
the damage is negated, and the token is moved 
forward one space. Once the token moves twice, 
the card is moved to the player’s lost pile and the 
bonus is no longer active.
ACTIVE BONUSES
Some abilities can give a character, or his or her allies, bonuses on other abilities, either persistently until 
certain conditions are fulfilled or for the rest of the round. These abilities are denoted with symbols, and the 
cards with these effects are played into the active area in front of the player to keep track of these bonuses.
Persistent bonuses can be identified by the symbol   displayed on the card. These ability effects will be 
active from the time the card is played until the conditions specified on the card are met. These conditions 
usually track the number of times a particular game event has occurred, such as making or defending against an 
attack. Place a token on the first marked position of the card’s action and advance it one space each time the 
effect is triggered, left to right, top to bottom. When the ability has been used once for each space on the card, 
remove the card from play by placing it in the lost pile. Players must use the benefits of a persistent bonus 
when possible, even if no benefit is gained. If there are no conditions specified or positions marked, the card 
may remain in the player’s active area for the rest of the scenario and can be removed from play at any time by 
placing it in the lost pile.
Round bonuses will have this symbol   on the card. The effect of the ability will be active from the time 
the card is played until the end of the round, at which point the card will be placed in the player’s discard or 
lost pile (depending on whether the action also contains an  symbol).
Even though a bonus card is placed in the active area, it is still considered discarded or lost, depending on 
whether the action also contains an   symbol. At any time, these cards can be moved to the appropriate pile, 
however, doing so immediately removes any bonuses that were being applied by the card.
SHIELD
A “Shield X” bonus ability gives the recipient a defender’s bonus that reduces any incoming 
attack value by X. Multiple shield bonuses stack with one another and can be applied in any 
order. A shield bonus only applies to damage caused by an attack.
On the next two sources of damage
to you, suﬀ er no damage instead.
Attack 2
+1 Attack ,
Frost Armor
Examples of Character Tokens

RETALIATE
HEAL
SUMMON
Some abilities summon other ally figures to the board. Summoned 
figures (summons) are placed in an empty hex adjacent to the 
figure performing the summon. If there are no available hexes, the 
summon ability cannot be used. Summons are represented by a 
colored summon token. There are eight different colors of summon 
tokens so that multiple summons can be tracked at the same time, 
and players can assign any color they like to a specific summon, 
placing tracker tokens on their summon ability cards for easy 
reference. 
Summons have basic statistics for hit points, attack value, move 
value, and range value along with any special traits written on the 
ability card. A summon is considered a persistent bonus (the card 
is placed in the active area) until either the summon loses all its hit 
points, its corresponding ability card is removed from the active 
area, or the summoner becomes exhausted, at which point the 
summon is removed from the board. 
A summon’s turn in the initiative order is always directly before the 
character who summoned it, and is separate from that character’s 
turn. Summons are not controlled by the summoning player, but 
instead obey automated monster rules, permanently following the 
ability card “Move+0, Attack+0” (see Monster Turn on pp. 29–32 
for details) and using the player’s attack modifier deck to perform 
its attacks. 
A player can have multiple different summon abilities in play 
at once, in which case they act in the order in which they were 
summoned. Summoned figures never take a turn in the round they 
are summoned. Summon kills are credited to the owner of the 
summon.
A “Retaliate X” bonus ability causes the recipient to inflict X points of damage on figures who 
attack it from an adjacent hex for each attack made. A retaliate bonus can also be accompanied 
by a “Range Y” value, which means that the retaliate damage is applied to any attacker within Y 
hexes. A retaliate takes effect after the attack that initiated it. If the retaliating figure is killed or 
exhausted by the attack, then the retaliate does not activate. Multiple retaliate bonuses stack 
with one another, and retaliate itself is not an attack or even a targeted effect.
A “Heal X” ability allows a figure to return X hit points to either themselves or one ally within the 
ability’s range. Heals are always accompanied by one of two labels: 
•	 “Range Y” means that any ally within Y hexes, or the figure performing the heal, can be 
affected by the heal. Like all ranged abilities, the recipient must be in line-of-sight. 
•	 “Self” mean the figure can only affect him or herself with the heal.
Move 4
: -
: 1
: 2
: 6
Summon Rat Swarm
Gnawing Horde
Summons tokens
Summons 
tracker
: -
: 1
: 2
: 6
Summon Ra

RECOVER AND REFRESH
Certain abilities allow a player to recover discarded or lost ability cards. This means that the player can look 
through his or her discard or lost pile (or discarded or lost cards in his or her active area), select up to a number 
of cards specified in the ability, and immediately return them to his or her hand. Some cards, however, cannot 
be recovered or refreshed once lost. This is denoted by the   symbol. This symbol applies to the card no 
matter how the card was lost or consumed.
Refresh abilities allow players to regain the use of spent or consumed item cards. 
In the case of both recover and refresh, the type of card gained (discarded or lost for ability cards, spent or 
consumed for item cards) is specified in the ability.
LOOT
A “Loot X” ability allows a character to pick up every money token and treasure tile within 
range X. This action is unaffected by the positions of monsters or obstacles, but note this 
is considered a ranged ability for the purposes of line-of-sight. Money tokens are kept in a 
player’s personal supply and are not shared with the other players. If a treasure tile is looted, 
immediately refer to the reference number in the treasure index in the back of the scenario 
book to determine what is found (see Treasure on p. 15 for details). If a character loots an 
item he or she already owns a copy of, the new item is immediately sold to the city’s available 
supply (see Buying and Selling Items on p. 43 for details).
Some actions also have an experience value attached to them, 
denoted by  . When that action is taken, the character gains 
the number of experience specified. An ability card cannot be 
played for the experience alone—a character must use one 
or more of the accompanying abilities to earn the experience. 
In addition, sometimes the action specifies that experience is 
only earned under certain conditions, such as consuming an 
elemental infusion or if the attacked target is adjacent to an 
attacker’s allies  . Some persistent bonuses will also give 
a character experience, denoted by  , when that charge 
of the bonus is expended   (i.e., when the character token 
moves off that slot). Characters do not automatically gain 
experience from killing monsters. Only using specific actions 
awards experience.
END-OF-TURN LOOTING
In addition to specific loot abilities, a character must also loot any money tokens or treasure tiles present in 
the hex he or she occupies at the end of the character’s turn. Character summons do not perform end-of-turn 
looting.
GAINING EXPERIENCE
On your next four attacks targeting enemies 
adjacent to none of their allies, add +2 Attack .
Add +2 Attack 
 and gain 
 when the 
target is adjacent to any of your allies.
Single Out
Recover Ability Card
Refresh Item
Cannot be recovered or 
refreshed once lost or 
consumed

ITEMS
Characters can use items at any time, within the constraints of what is written on the item card, including 
in the middle of a card ability. However, if an item affects an attack (e.g. adds a bonus, an effect, advantage, 
or disadvantage), it has to be used before an attack modifier is drawn. If an effect is added to an attack, it 
functions exactly as if it had been written on the action card being used for the attack. There is no limit to the 
number of items a character can use on their turn or even during a specific ability. Any instance of applying 
the effects of an item card to a situation is considered a use. Like persistent abilities, an item with multiple use 
circles must be used when the situation applies.
Experience is tracked on the right side of a player’s tracking dial 
by rotating the wheel to the appropriate number  .
CHARACTER DAMAGE
Whenever any damage is dealt to a character, the player has 
two options:
Suffer the damage and move his or her hit point total on the tracking wheel down the appropriate 
number, or… 
Choose one card to lose from his or her hand or two cards to lose from his or her discard pile to 
negate the damage (any additional effects of the attack are still applied). Note that before a character 
acts in a round, the two cards chosen at the beginning of the round are neither in the player’s hand or 
lost or discard pile, and so cannot be lost to negate damage. 
EXHAUSTION
A character can become exhausted in one of two ways:
If a character ever drops below one hit point on the hit point tracker, or… 
If, at the beginning of a round, a player cannot play two cards from his or her hand (because they have 
one card or no cards in his or her hand) and also cannot rest (because they have one card or no cards 
in their discard pile). Exhaustion due to insufficient cards does not affect a character’s current hit point 
total. 
In either case, all ability cards are placed in the characters lost pile, the character’s figure is removed from 
the map, and the character can no longer participate in the scenario in any way. There is no coming back 
from being exhausted during a scenario, and thus it should be avoided at all costs. If all characters become 
exhausted during a scenario, the scenario is lost.
Whenever a character is healed, move his or her hit point total on 
the tracking wheel up the appropriate number  . The tracking 
wheel cannot go above the character's maximum hit point value 
indicated on the player’s character mat  .

Monsters’ decisions are controlled by a system of action cards that automate what the monsters will do on 
their turn in the initiative order. They are not controlled by a separate player. All monsters will perform the 
actions listed on their ability card for the round in the order written. They will not move or attack unless these 
actions are listed on their card.
Note that each type of monster can come in two ranks: normal and elite. Normal monsters are designated 
with a white stand and elite monsters are designated with a gold stand. When an elite monster acts, use the 
statistics in the “Elite” section of the monster statistic card.
ORDER OF ACTION 
All monsters of the same type take individual turns at the same initiative value listed on their monster ability 
card. All elites of a type activate first, then the normal monsters of that type activate. If more than one elite 
or normal monster of a given type is present on the board, then the monsters activate in ascending numerical 
order according to the numbers on their tokens  . 
Example: With the setup to the left, the elite monster to 
the right  will activate first, then the other elite  . 
Next the normal monster on the top will activate  , 
then the lower monster  . Even though  is lower in 
numerical order than  and  ,  and  are elite, so 
they activate first.
MONSTER FOCUS 
Before performing any action on their ability card, each individual monster will focus on a specific enemy­—
either a character or character summon. 
A monster will focus on the enemy figure it can perform its current attack against using the least 
amount of movement. It finds the shortest possible path to get in range and line-of-sight to use its 
attack, and the figure that can be attacked at the end of that path is the focus. This enemy figure is 
considered the “closest.” It doesn’t matter if the monster can’t get within range to attack with its 
current movement, as long as there is a path to eventually get within range. If a monster does not have 
an attack listed on its ability card for the round, it finds a focus as if it had a melee attack. In the case 
where the monster can move the same number of spaces to get within range (and line-of-sight) of 
multiple enemy figures (e.g., because it starts its turn within range of multiple enemies), proximity from 
the monster’s current position (i.e. number of hexes they are away, not counting through walls) is then 
checked as a tie-breaker for determining “closest.” 
In addition to determining order of action, the number 
on the monster standee  corresponds to a section of 
the monster stat sleeve  that can be used to track 
damage and condition tokens.
Monster Turn

If more than one enemy ties for being the closest, the second priority is to focus on the enemy who 
is earlier in the initiative order (summons are focused on before the character who summoned them 
in this regard, even on the round they are summoned, and a character who is performing a long rest 
would be focused on last). 
MONSTER MOVEMENT 
A monster can move on its turn if “Move±X” is part of its ability card. It can move up to a number of hexes 
equal to its base move value (found on its monster statistic card) modified by X (either positive or negative).
If a monster has a move but no attack afterward as part of its ability card, it will use its movement to get 
as close as possible to its focused target (determined as if it had a melee attack), moving along the shortest 
possible path to enter a hex adjacent to its focused enemy.
If a monster has an attack ability after its movement, it will move the least number of hexes possible in such 
a way as to attack its focused enemy with maximum effect. If it is a single-target melee attack, it will simply 
move toward the nearest hex adjacent to its focus to attack. If it is a multi-target attack, it will move toward a 
position where its attack will hit its focused enemy and as many other enemies as possible.
If the monster is performing a ranged attack, it will only move toward a hex where it is within range to perform 
its best possible attack. A monster will also move away from its focused enemy until it can perform the ranged 
attack without Disadvantage. When forced to choose, a monster will prioritize losing Disadvantage on its 
focused enemy over maximizing its attack on secondary targets. Even if a monster cannot move into attack 
range, it will still use its movement to get as close as possible to its focus.
Having abilities other than “Attack” on its ability card does not affect a monster’s movement in any way. It will 
simply move according to the above rules and then use its other abilities as best as it can.
Example: Monster  can perform a “Move 3” ability. It first 
focuses on the Brute  , since he is the closest enemy. If the 
monster had a ranged attack, it would remain in its current hex 
and attack the Brute. If it had a single-target melee attack, it would 
move 1 hex  to be adjacent to the Brute and attack. If it could 
attack two targets with a melee attack, it would move 
2 hexes  to be adjacent to both the Brute and the Tinkerer. If it 
could melee attack three or more targets, it would move 
3 hexes  to be adjacent to all three characters.
Example: Even though the Brute  is physically 
closer to Monster  , the monster is performing a 
melee attack and can get in range of the Tinkerer in 
fewer steps (2 instead of 4), so the monster focuses 
on the Tinkerer  .
In the case where there are no valid targets on 
which to focus, because there are no valid hexes a 
monster can attack from (i.e., they are all blocked, 
occupied, or there is no open path to reach them), 
regardless of the number of hexes it could move, a 
monster will not move or attack on its turn, but it 
will perform any of the other actions on its ability 
card that it is able.

MONSTER INTERACTION WITH TRAPS AND HAZARDOUS TERRAIN
Monsters without the Flying trait consider negative hexes (traps or hazardous terrain) to be obstacles when 
determining focus and movement unless movement through one of these hexes is the only way they can focus 
on a target. In this case, they will use the path moving through the smallest number of negative hexes possible 
to find a focus and suffer any consequences.
Example: Even though the Tinkerer   is closer, 
Monster  will focus on the Brute  with its 
melee attack because it considers traps to be 
obstacles. Only if the Brute were not there and the 
only enemy the monster could focus on was the 
Tinkerer would it do so and cross the traps to get 
to him.
MONSTER ATTACKS
A monster will attack on its turn if “Attack±X” is part of its ability card. Any damage dealt is calculated from its 
base attack value (found on its monster statistic card) modified by X (either positive or negative). Monsters will 
always attack their focused enemies (see Monster Focus on pp. 29–30 for details) but if the monster can attack 
multiple targets, it will attack its focused enemy and as many other enemies as possible to maximum effect. If a 
monster has multiple attacks, it will choose the focus of its other attacks following normal focus rules, excluding 
figures it is already attacking. Any attack that does not specify a range on the monster ability card should use 
the base range of the monster written on its stat card.
Monster attacks function exactly like character attacks, and are modified by the attacker’s attack bonuses, then 
attack modifier cards, then the defense bonuses of their target. They may be performed with Advantage or 
Disadvantage as discussed on pp. 20–21.
OTHER MONSTER ABILITIES
Healing: Monster healing functions exactly like character healing as discussed on p. 26. With a “Heal X” ability, 
the monster will heal themselves or an ally within the specified range, whichever has lost the most hit points.
Summons: Monster summon abilities place new monsters on the board that behave exactly like the normal 
monsters, acting according to played monster ability cards of their type. Summoned monsters are placed in an 
empty hex adjacent to the summoning monster and also as close to an enemy as possible. If there are no empty 
adjacent hexes or there are no available standees of the summoned monster type, the summon fails. Summoned 
monsters never act on the round they are summoned, nor do they drop money tokens when killed.
Example: Archer  will focus on the Brute  , since she 
can get in range to attack him with the least number of 
moves. If the archer has a Range 3 attack and Move 2, 
she will move to hex  and attack her focus. If she only 
has Move 1, however, she will stay where she is and not 
attack. She will not move into the trap  , even though 
it would put her in range to attack the Brute, because 
there is still another viable path to get within range of 
the Brute, even if she can’t use it this turn. She also will 
not move to hex  , as it would get her no closer to 
being in range of the Brute.

Bonus abilities: Ability card bonuses are activated through actions only when the monster activates and are 
only active until the end of the round in which the card was drawn.
Looting: Monsters do not perform end-of-turn looting, but some monsters do have loot actions. In these cases, 
a monster will pick up all money tokens within the specified range. These money tokens are lost and are not 
dropped again when the looting monster is killed. Monsters are unable to loot treasure tiles.
AMBIGUITY
If the rules ever make any monster action ambiguous because there are multiple viable hexes to which the 
monster could move, multiple equally viable targets to heal or attack, or multiple hexes a monster could push 
or pull a character into, the players must decide which option the monster will take.
BOSSES
End of Round
Once all figures have taken a turn, the round ends and some cleanup steps may be necessary:
If a standard “2x”    or “Null”    attack modifier card was drawn from a specific modifier deck 
during the round, shuffle all the discards of that deck back into its draw deck. 
If a monster ability card with a shuffle symbol   was drawn at the start of the round, shuffle all 
discards for the corresponding monster type back into its deck. 
If there are any elemental infusion tokens in the Strong column, move them to the Waning column. If 
there are any elemental infusion tokens in the Waning column, move them to Inert. 
Place all active round bonus ability cards in the appropriate discard or lost pile (depending on whether 
an action with a [lost card] symbol was used). 
Players may also perform a short rest (see Resting on p. 17 for details) if they are able.
Players will occasionally encounter bosses in their 
adventures. All bosses have their own stat card but act 
using a universal “Boss” ability card deck  . Note that 
bosses are not considered normal or elite monsters. 
Bosses perform special actions on their turn that are 
summarized on their stat card. Explanations for more 
complicated abilities can be found in the Scenario Book. 
Bosses’ stats are often based on the number of characters, 
which is signified by the letter “C” on the boss stat card. 
Lastly, bosses are immune to certain negative conditions. 
The conditions to which they are immune are listed on 
their stat card  .

ROUND TRACKER
Some scenarios may require players to keep track of what 
round it is. A round track can be found at the top of the 
elemental infusion table for this purpose. At the end of 
every round, simply move the tracker token   forward 
one space. Note that it is not necessary to keep track of 
the rounds for most scenarios.
Finishing a Scenario
A scenario can end in one of two ways: success or failure. Once 
a scenario’s success or failure conditions are triggered, the 
remainder of the round is played out, and then the scenario ends.
Success or failure, players tally the experience their individual 
characters earned during the scenario and tally the money tokens 
their characters looted during the scenario and convert them 
into gold. Each money token looted is worth an amount of gold 
based on the scenario level and specified on the chart on p. 15. 
Anything not looted during the scenario is not collected. Players 
also recover all lost and discarded ability cards, refresh all spent 
and exhausted item cards, and return their hit point dials to their 
maximum hit point value so that they can start fresh in a future scenario. Players should also go through their 
attack modifier deck and remove any BLESS cards, CURSE cards, and any other negative cards added through 
scenario and item effects. This should also be done with the monster attack modifier deck. All battle goals are 
shuffled back into the battle goal deck, regardless of whether they were completed.
If players successfully complete the scenario, they receive checkmarks for their characters’ completed battle 
goal cards at this time. Checkmarks are recorded on the player’s character sheet and completing a set of three 
immediately earns a character an additional perk (see Additional Perks on p. 44 for details). Even if a character 
is exhausted, as long as the scenario was successfully completed, that character can still complete his or her 
battle goal, earn scenario rewards, and keep all the money and experience he or she collected before becoming 
exhausted. There is no penalty for becoming exhausted. Players also receive bonus experience for successfully 
completing the scenario. This bonus is equal to four plus twice the scenario level (see Scenario Level on p. 15 
If players are playing in a campaign, successfully completing a scenario 
will also allow them to read the conclusion flavor text of the scenario 
and gain the benefits listed at the end (see Scenario Completion on 
p. 49 for details). In a campaign the money and experience collected 
during a scenario will be very important to improve a character’s skills 
and abilities and should be tracked on the player’s character sheet  . 
If the scenario was not part of a campaign, money and experience can 
be used as metric for gauging how well each character did.
Character Sheet
Have ﬁ ve or more 
total cards in your 
hand and discard 
at the end of the 
Streamliner
Battle Goal Card

Campaign Overview
There are two ways to play Gloomhaven: campaign mode and casual mode.
In campaign mode, players will form an official party of characters and undertake a number of consecutive scenarios 
over multiple play sessions. This allows players to follow a story thread as they make decisions and explore a path 
of their own choosing. A scenario can only be played in campaign mode if all the prerequisite global and party 
achievements listed as required in the Scenario Book are active for the party. In addition, once a scenario has been 
completed in campaign mode, it cannot be undertaken again in campaign mode by any party.
In casual mode, players can play any revealed scenario on the world map regardless of achievements or whether it has 
been completed in campaign mode. Players can still gain experience and money, loot treasure tiles, complete battle 
goals, and make progress toward completing their personal quests, but any story text or rewards listed at the end of 
the scenario are disregarded. A party in campaign mode can switch to casual mode to go through a scenario they have 
already completed, but it is strongly recommended that a party not undertake a scenario in casual mode that they 
haven’t yet experienced in campaign mode.
The rules that follow will deal specifically with playing the game in campaign mode.
Special Scenario Rules
Many scenarios will feature extra rules. The following are clarifications for common special scenario rules:
•	 Spawning: When a monster is spawned, it is set up on the map at its spawning location or the nearest 
empty hex to that location. If a monster is spawned at the end of a round, it will begin to activate on the 
following round. If a monster is spawned during a round, it activates as if it had just been revealed (see 
Revealing a Room on p. 19 for details). 
•	 Locked doors: Some doors are classified as “locked,” which means they cannot be opened by a character 
moving onto them. Instead, they act as walls until the conditions to open them specified in the scenario 
book are met. 
•	 Pressure plates: Pressure plates function similarly to corridors, in that they have no effect on a figure’s 
movement. Instead, if a pressure plate is occupied by a character at the end of a turn, it may trigger a 
special effect specified in the scenario book, such as opening a door or spawning a monster. 
•	 Destroying obstacles: When an obstacle is specified as having hit points in the scenario book, it can be 
attacked and will be destroyed and removed from the board when it drops below 1 hit point. Obstacles 
with hit points can only be destroyed through damage and not through other character abilities. These 
obstacles are considered enemies for all ability purposes and have an initiative of 99 for the purpose of 
summon focusing, but they are immune to all negative conditions. 
•	 Objective and scenario aid tokens: Objective tokens  are used in many scenarios 
to represent allied figures or loot locations. In the case of allied figures, the numbers 
on the tokens should be randomized when placed, with the numbers determining 
the figures’ activation order. Scenario aid tokens  can be placed on the map tiles to act as a reminder for 
special cases, such as where enemies spawn or when to read numbered sections from the scenario book. 
•	 Named monsters: Often times the goal of a scenario is to kill a specific monster, either a boss or a unique 
variant of a regular monster, as specified in the scenario rules. These monsters are not considered normal 
or elite and thus are not affected by character abilities that target only normal or elite monsters. 
•	 Equations: Some scenario properties such as hit points for obstacles or named monsters are determined by 
equations that depend on the scenario level and the number of characters. In such instances, “L” is used to 
denote the scenario level, and “C” is used to denote the number of characters.

The campaign board is used to track the global progress of the game world. The locations, achievements, and 
prosperity tracked on the board apply globally to all parties playing in the world.
THE BOARD INCLUDES:
A map of Gloomhaven  and the surrounding area  . Numbered circles on the map  represent 
scenarios that can be unlocked through the course of playing the campaign. When a scenario is 
unlocked, its corresponding sticker  is placed over the numbered circle (see Scenario Completion 
on p. 49 for details). When an unlocked scenario is completed in campaign mode, the blank spot on its 
sticker  is marked to signify this. 
A reference grid for the map  so that scenario locations can more easily be found. 
A space for tracking global achievements  . When a global achievement is unlocked, its corresponding 
sticker  should be placed in one of the sticker slots in this space (see Achievements on p. 40 for 
A prosperity track  . When the prosperity of Gloomhaven increases, a square on the prosperity track 
should be marked for every point of increase, moving from left to right (see Gloomhaven Prosperity on 
p. 48 for details). At certain thresholds, this will increase the prosperity level of Gloomhaven.
Campaign Board
Location sticker

Party Sheet
A party is formed when a new group of players gets together to play the game. They will document the 
formation of the party by starting a new entry in the party sheet notepad. Party achievements, reputation, and 
location will be tracked on this notepad.
A party can persist from scenario to scenario and play session to play session, as long as the players want. The 
makeup of the party will change over time, especially as characters retire and new characters are created. 
Changes to the party makeup are fine, not only for characters, but players as well. New parties can also be 
formed at any time, though new characters should be made for a new party.
A PARTY SHEET INCLUDES:
A space to name the party  . Every 
good party should have a name. Be 
creative. 
A space to track the current scenario 
location of the party  . This is mainly 
relevant for linked scenarios (see 
Traveling and Road Events on pp. 41–42 
A space for notes  . If there is anything 
else a party would like to track, they can 
do so here. 
A space to track party achievements   . 
Whenever a party earns a party 
achievement, it should be noted here 
(see Achievements on p. 40 for details). 
A reputation track  . A party will gain 
and lose reputation over time for a 
number of reasons, and this is tracked 
by penciling in or erasing sections of 
the reputation track on the notepad 
(see Reputation on p. 42 for details). 
To the right of the track, the item price 
discounts and penalties for high and low 
reputation  are visible.

Character Sheet
When a new character is created, the player should start a new entry in the character’s corresponding 
character sheet notepad. As players play through a campaign, they will need to keep notes on what experience, 
gold, items, perks, and available ability cards they have in their deck by using this character sheet.
A CHARACTER SHEET INCLUDES:
A space to name the character  . 
Every character should have a name. Be 
creative. 
A space to mark the current level of 
the character  . As characters gain 
experience, they will increase in level (see 
Leveling Up on pp. 44–45 for details). The 
total amount of experience needed is 
written below each level  . 
Spaces to keep detailed notes on the 
amount of experience  and gold  a 
character has. 
A space to track all the items a character 
has in their possession  . 
A perk list specific to the character 
class   . Whenever a character gains a 
perk (see Additional Perks on p. 44 for 
details), they mark the one on the list 
they want. 
A space for additional notes  . If 
players would like to track progress on 
other aspects of their character, they can 
do so here. This space also includes a 
track for checkmarks  attained through 
battle goals.

Personal Quest Cards
When a character is created, he or she is dealt two random personal quest cards and chooses one to keep, 
returning the other to the personal quest deck. A character’s personal quest is their primary reason for 
participating in a party.
A PERSONAL QUEST CARD INCLUDES:
A thematic description of the quest  . 
The specific requirements for completing the 
quest and the rewards for doing so  . When a 
personal quest is completed, the character will 
retire (see Announcing Retirement on p. 48 for 
Random Item Design Cards
Whenever a “Random Item Design” is listed as the reward 
when looting a treasure tile, the looting player should draw 
a card from the random item design deck. These cards look 
very similar to normal item cards, but have a blue back, 
shown at the right. When a card is drawn, the player should 
find the one additional copy of the drawn item with the 
same reference number in the deck of unavailable items and 
add both cards to the city’s available supply of items. It is 
possible to deplete the random item design deck. In this case, 
additional random item design rewards have no effect.
Random Side Scenario Cards
Whenever a “Random Side Scenario” is listed as the reward 
when looting a treasure tile, the looting players should draw 
a card from the random side scenario deck. The drawn 
scenario is then immediately unlocked and its corresponding 
sticker is placed on the campaign map. The drawn scenario 
card is then removed from the game. It is possible to deplete 
the random side scenario deck. In this case, additional 
random side scenario rewards have no effect.
Even as a child, you could 
feel the call of Xorn. Once 
worshiped as a god, his ﬂ ock 
has long since been destroyed 
and disbanded. But you can 
hear him calling. You will 
travel to Gloomhaven as he 
commands. You will ﬁ nd his 
remains and set him free. 
The plague will once again be 
embraced.
Complete three “Crypt” 
scenarios. Then unlock 
“Noxious Cellar” (Scenario 52) 
and follow it to a conclusion.
Open Box
Seeker of Xorn
Boots of Levitation
Gain Flying .
F-8

City and Road Event Cards
A thematic introduction to the event   . 
This should be read first. 
A decision point  . The party as a 
whole must choose between two options 
depending on their preference. Only after 
a collective decision has been reached 
should the card be flipped over and the 
proper outcome on the back resolved. 
The number of the event  . This number 
will be referenced in the game when 
instructing players to add specific events to 
their respective decks. 
Descriptions of both choices  . 
Depending on which option the 
party chose, players should read the 
corresponding choice and ignore the other. 
The outcome of a choice  , which 
consists of a block of thematic text 
followed by the specific game play effects 
on the game in bold. A choice can contain 
multiple separate outcomes, some 
dependent on specific conditions (see 
Completing Road Events on pp. 41–42 for 
Icons directing players to either remove 
the event card from the game  or return 
it to the bottom of the corresponding 
event deck  after the outcome is 
City Event Card
Road Event Card
Players will have many opportunities to encounter city and road events throughout a campaign. When players 
encounter an event, they draw the top card off the corresponding deck and read the front side  . Note that 
event cards have content on both sides, and the back  should not be read until the front is resolved. City 
events and road events have different art and content, but they work the same way.
AN EVENT CARD CONTAINS: 
resolved. 
When the game box is opened and the campaign begins, a shuffled city event deck and road event deck should 
both be created using city and road events 01 through 30. Players will be directed to add or remove certain 
events from these decks over the course of the campaign. When a card is added to an event deck, the event 
deck should then be shuffled. Note that adding a card is different from returning a played card to an event 
deck, in which case it is placed on the bottom of the deck and the deck is not shuffled.
After resting for the evening, 
you start out your day noticing a 
great number of prominent, command-
ing posters around the city.
Reading one, you learn that the Sanctuary of 
the Great Oak is laying down the foundation for 
a new building on the east side of Gloomhaven. 
Everyone is encouraged to come and help. This 
could be an important community event.
Option A: Go help lay the foundation.
Option B: Take the opportunity to steal some 
valuables in the area while people are distracted.
Amidst a great deal of revelry, you put all 
you have into laying the foundation of the 
sanctuary. Surely much good will be done 
here healing the sick and wounded. After all 
your exhaustive eﬀ orts, though, you might 
end up being their ﬁ rst patients. 
Lose 1 .
Gain 1 reputation.
Gain 1 prosperity.
You head to the prosperous east side of town, 
not to help lay down the foundation, but to 
steal some goods from shopkeepers too silly 
to lock up their wares during the festivities. 
You make oﬀ with a good deal of money and 
the distracted guards are none the wiser. 
Gain 5 gold each.
Reputation < -4: Gain 5 additional 
gold each.
Conﬁ dent that the wolves pose no signiﬁ cant 
threat, you stand your ground and prepare 
for battle. The pack comes — ragged and 
hungry, slowly emerging from the dark — 
and surrounds your party.
There are more of them than you expected, 
but not enough to take you down. You suﬀ er 
a bite or two, but are able to ﬁ ght them oﬀ .
All start scenario with 3 damage.
You pick up and run as fast as you can 
through the underbrush and away from the 
ominous sounds. They seem to be receding 
as you stumble headlong into some sort of 
thicket ﬁ lled with sticky spines.
You pull yourself out, but not before your 
skin is pierced in numerous places and 
becomes inﬂ amed. Best to avoid this plant in 
the future.
All start scenario with POISON .

Sealed Boxes and Envelopes
The game box includes a number of sealed boxes and envelopes, each designated with a symbol or letter. At 
certain times, the game will direct players to open one of these. If it contains materials for a new character 
class, that character class is now available for anyone starting a new character. If the envelope contains other 
contents, the contents will direct the players how to use them.
Players will be directed to open boxes or envelopes when they complete personal quests or meet specific 
conditions. These conditions are listed on p. 49.
Town Records
Achievements
The achievement system is the main way that players will keep track of major changes in the world and 
what scenarios a particular party has access to while playing in campaign mode. There are two types of 
achievements: global achievements and party achievements.
Global achievements affect the entire game world, regardless of what party is playing in it. Global 
achievements are tracked with stickers along the top of the world map  . Some global achievements have a 
specific type (listed after the achievement in the format of “Type: Achievement,” e.g., “City Rule: Militaristic”). 
Only one global achievement of each type can be active at a time. If a global achievement is gained and there is 
already an active achievement of the same type, the previous achievement is overwritten and the new sticker is 
placed on top of the previous one. Multiple instances of a single global achievement are possible, so long they 
don’t have a specific type.
Party achievements are tied to a specific party and are mainly used 
to keep track of what scenarios are available to play in campaign 
mode for that party.
The game box also includes a small sealed book titled “Town Records.” Players are 
directed to open this book once the first character retires, at which point they can 
begin reading the book from front to back. At certain points in the book, players will 
be directed to stop reading until certain conditions are met.

Playing a Campaign
Traveling and Road Events
If players return to Gloomhaven, once they are finished with their business in town (see Visiting Gloomhaven 
on pp. 42–48 for details), then the party will still need to travel to a new scenario and complete a road event 
unless the new scenario is linked to Gloomhaven or it is being played in casual mode. This link will also be 
listed in the scenario’s entry in the scenario book.
Example: After completing the Black Barrow scenario, the party unlocks the Barrow Lair scenario. These two 
scenarios are linked, so they could travel to the Barrow Lair without completing a road event. Instead, they 
decide to go back to Gloomhaven to spend the money they gathered. Now when they travel to the Barrow 
Lair, they must complete a road event because the Barrow Lair is not linked to Gloomhaven.
COMPLETING ROAD EVENTS
To complete a road event, players draw a single card from the road event deck and read the introductory text 
on the front. After this text, two options are given, and players must agree on a single choice before turning 
over the card and reading the matching outcome. Once the outcome has been read, the choice cannot be 
changed, and players must gain or lose whatever the outcome directs.
Depending on the makeup and reputation of the party, a single choice (A or B) can have several different 
outcomes. A choice should be read top to bottom, resolving all outcomes that apply to the party.
After every scenario, whether it was a success or failure, players have the choice to either return to 
Gloomhaven or to immediately travel to a new scenario.
In the case that players immediately travel to a new scenario, they must complete a road event before starting 
the new scenario unless they are playing the same scenario, the new scenario is linked to the previous 
scenario, or they are playing in casual mode. In a scenario’s entry in the Scenario Book, the scenarios that are 
linked to that entry are listed on the upper right side of the page  . If the two scenarios are linked, players 
can immediately start the new scenario without completing a road event.
An outcome can be preceded by one of the following conditions:
A class icon. As long as one of the listed class icons matches the class 
icon of a current member of the party, the outcome is applied. 
A range of reputation. If the party’s reputation is within the designated 
range, the outcome is applied. 
A collective gold amount. If the party collectively has equal to or more 
than the gold amount, that amount is lost, and the outcome is applied. 
The word “otherwise.” If none of the preceding outcomes were applied, 
apply this outcome instead. 
If the outcome does not have a condition, the outcome is applied.
 : You quickly identify the source of 
the problem — some frayed wiring in the 
kitchen — and have it replaced in no time. 
REPUTATION > -5: You get into the game, 
but after a few rounds, your enthusiasm 
wanes as the man displays a streak of luck 
l b d
b d
PAY 10 COLLECTIVE GOLD: You hand 
over the gold and take hold of the piece of 
garbage. Amidst troubling brown smears you 
l k l
OTHERWISE: You fumble about 
magnanimously for a while before concluding 
that you have no idea what you’re doing. The 
k d
Links: Barrow Lair – #2
Black Barrow
# 1
G-10

“Collective” rewards or penalties are distributed among the party, and rewards or penalties specified as 
“each” are applied to each character in the party individually. If a player is directed to lose anything (money, 
checkmarks, etc.), but they cannot do so because they do not have a sufficient amount of that thing to lose, 
they lose what they are able to lose and continue resolving the event. A character can never lose a checkmark 
that would cause him or her to lose a perk, have negative money, or be brought below the minimum 
experience required for his or her current level, and the town can never be brought below the minimum 
prosperity for its current level.
Visiting Gloomhaven
Whenever a party returns to Gloomhaven, they can perform a variety of activities: creating new characters, 
completing city events, buying and selling items, leveling up their character, donating to the sanctuary, 
enhancing ability cards, and announcing retirement. A new visit to Gloomhaven can be triggered after every 
scenario played in campaign mode.
CREATING NEW CHARACTERS
The first step in any character’s story is creation. Players will create new characters when they first start playing 
the game, when they retire an old character and wish to continue playing, or pretty much whenever they want 
to try something new. When the box is first opened, the following six classes are available to play: Brute   , 
Tinkerer   , Spellweaver   , Scoundrel   , Cragheart   , and Mindthief   .
When a player creates a new character, he or she gains access to that character’s character mat and deck of 
Level 1 and “X” ability cards. The player should create a new entry in the class’s corresponding character sheet 
notepad, and also draw two random personal quest cards, choosing to keep one and shuffling the other back 
into the deck. 
A player can start a character at any level equal to or lower than the prosperity level of the city (see 
Gloomhaven Prosperity on p. 48 for details). If a player starts a character above Level 1, they should go through 
all the steps outlined on p. 44 for each level increase in sequence, up to and including their chosen starting 
level. In addition, a newly created character receives an amount of gold equal to 15x(L+1), where L is their 
starting level. A character starts with an amount of experience equal to the minimum required for their level 
(the number listed below that level on the character sheet).
REPUTATION
Reputation is tied to a specific party and is tracked on the party sheet. Any time a new party is formed, that 
party starts at 0 reputation. Through event consequences or by completing certain scenarios, the party will 
gain or lose reputation. A party can have a maximum reputation of 20 and a minimum reputation of -20.
A party’s reputation has a number of implications:
Many events have consequences that are only applied if the party meets specific reputation 
requirements. 
When buying items, players modify the cost based on their reputation. They receive a reduction in 
cost at a higher reputation and an increase in cost at a lower reputation. These cost modifications are 
written next to the reputation track on the party sheet. 
Certain sealed envelopes are opened when a party reaches specific positive and negative values of 
reputation.

COMPLETING CITY EVENTS
Once per visit to Gloomhaven, a party may complete a city event. City events are functionally the same as road 
events, but are drawn from the city event deck and generally have better outcomes than road events.
When in Gloomhaven, characters have the opportunity to 
buy item cards by spending the gold they’ve collected from 
scenarios. In addition, players can also sell back any item 
for half the price listed on the item card (rounded down). 
When an item is sold, it goes back into the city’s available 
supply, and the character receives the calculated amount of 
gold. Players can own as many items as they can afford, but 
are limited in how many they can equip (see Item Cards on 
p. 8 for details). Players cannot trade money or items.
When the game box is opened and the campaign begins, the city’s available supply should consist of all copies 
of Item 001 through Item 014. Over the course of the campaign, many more items will be added to the city’s 
available supply based on the following conditions:
Any time an item design is gained from a scenario or event, every copy 
of that item card is added to the city’s available supply. 
As the city gains prosperity levels (see Gloomhaven Prosperity on p. 48 
for details), new items will be made available in the supply. The list of 
what items are made available at each prosperity level can be found to 
the right. 
Lastly, when a character retires, all of their item cards go back into the 
shop’s supply. 
Within any one party, the number of items available for purchase is limited by how many copies of the item’s 
card there are. No character may own duplicates of the same item. If a different party plays the game with 
different characters, items possessed by unused characters are considered to be in the city’s available supply 
and can be purchased. Players should always keep track of what items they own on their character sheets in 
case the cards get moved around by other groups.
BUYING AND SELLING ITEMS
2/4
Minor Healing Potion
During your turn, perform 
a “Heal 3, Self” action.
001–014
015–021
022–028
029–035
036–042
043–049
050–056
057–063
064–070
Prosp.
Item Cards

 
Example: The Brute marks the “Replace one  card with 
one  card,” so he removes a   card from his attack 
modifier deck and adds a   card (taken from his Brute 
modifier deck) in its place.
ADDITIONAL PERKS
Lastly, leveling up also increases a character’s hit point total  , as indicated on their character mat.
Leveling up never changes a character’s maximum hand size. This is fixed for each class.
Any time a character successfully completes a battle goal card 
at the end of a scenario, they receive a number of checkmarks, 
which are tracked in the specified area of the notes section of 
their character sheet. For every three checkmarks a character 
earns, he or she immediately gains an additional perk on their 
character sheet and applies its effects to their attack modifier 
deck. Any checkmarks from a battle goal that are left over after 
achieving a perk are applied toward the next perk. A character 
can achieve a total of six additional perks in this way.
LEVELING UP
When a character gains the amount of experience listed on the table to the 
right, they must level up. Leveling up only occurs in town.
When a character reaches a new level, add one new card to their active card 
pool. The card selected must be from the character’s class and have a card 
level equal to or less than the character’s new level.
Additionally, when leveling up, the player can mark one of the perk boxes 
on the right side of their character sheet. This signifies an evolution of the 
character’s attack modifier deck. Apply the bonuses of the marked perk box to 
the character’s modifier deck using the class’s accompanying deck of available 
modifier cards. If a perk has multiple check boxes next to it, this means that the 
perk can be gained multiple times for the cost of one perk each. 
Gain 7 or fewer 
points during the 
Layabout
Brute Deck Icon
Experience
ǱShuffleǱǱǱǱǱǱattackǱandǱmonsterǱdecksǱwhereǱapplicable.

BUILDING A HAND OF CARDS
When playing a class for the first time, it is recommended that players use a hand comprised entirely of 
Level 1 cards (denoted by a  below the title). However, each character also has immediate access to 
three  cards. These are typically more complex and situational than Level 1 cards. Once a player is familiar 
with the basic abilities of the class, they should consider incorporating one or more  cards into their hand, 
removing an equal number of Level 1 cards to observe the hand limit.
As characters level up, higher level ability cards will also become available. Even 
though players have access to more cards, the maximum number of cards they 
can take into battle (hand limit) remains the same. Therefore, at the beginning of 
a scenario, players must select a number of cards from the character’s available 
card pool equal to the character’s hand limit. These cards will form the player’s 
hand, and only cards in the player’s hand may be used during a scenario.
SCENARIO SCALING
As characters level up, the recommended scenario level will also increase, as discussed on p. 15. This will 
increase monster levels, trap damage, gold gained from money tokens, and scenario completion experience.
Character Hand Limit
DONATING TO THE SANCTUARY
Once per visit to Gloomhaven, each player can donate 10 gold to the Sanctuary of the Great Oak, a temple and 
hospital in the city. Doing so allows the donating player to add two BLESS    attack modifier cards to their 
attack modifier deck for the next scenario.
Once players have completed “The Power of Enhancement” global achievement, they can spend gold while 
visiting Gloomhaven to increase the power of their ability cards. To do this, a player places the desired sticker 
from the enhancement sticker sheets onto a designated spot  of an ability card in their character’s active 
card pool. This sticker denotes a permanent enhancement to the ability.
ENHANCING ABILITY CARDS
Ability cards can be enhanced in a variety of ways, with each costing a specific amount of gold. This cost must 
be paid by the character whose ability card is being enhanced.
PIERCE 2

The base cost associated with any enhancement depends on the sticker and what ability the sticker is 
enhancing. Double the base cost of an enhancement (other than an attack hex) if it is applied to an ability that 
targets multiple figures. Additional costs are added based on the level of the ability card and the number of 
previously placed enhancement stickers on the same action.
The total number of enhanced cards in a class’s ability deck must be equal to or less than the prosperity level 
of the town. Once placed, enhancement stickers should never be removed. Enhancements persist through all 
instances of a specific character class, even after retirement.
Can be placed on any ability line or summon 
base stat line with a numerical value. That 
value is increased by 1.
Can be placed on any main ability line that 
targets enemies. The specified condition is 
applied to all targets of the ability.
Can be placed on any main ability line that 
affects allies or yourself. A “Move” ability 
does not count as affecting yourself. The 
specified condition is applied to all targets 
of the ability.
Can be placed on any “Move” ability line. 
The movement is now considered a jump.
Can be placed on any main ability line. The 
element is created when the ability is used. 
In the case of a  the player chooses the 
element as normal.
Can be placed to increase the graphical 
depiction of an area attack. The new hex 
becomes an additional target of the attack.
Each kind of enhancement sticker has a different function and has restrictions on where it can be placed. “Main 
line ability” refers to an ability written in large font (as opposed to modifiers written in a smaller font under the 
main line):

Base 
 
Enhancement Cost
(For summons)
Double base cost for any ability with multiple targets.
Base Other Effects Cost
Level of Ability Card
Number of Previous
Enhancements
IMMOBILIZE
150g
CURSE
STRENGTHEN
BLESS
Specific
element
Any element
150g
HP
Attack Hex
200g divided by the number of hexes 
currently targeted with the attack
+ 0g
+ 75g
+ 150g
+ 225g
+ 0g
+ 25g
+ 50g
+ 75g
+ 100g
+ 125g
+ 150g
+ 175g
+ 200g
Shield
PULL
Retaliate
Target
Example: The Brute wishes to enhance the top action of his ability card 
with a +1 on the attack  . The base cost of this is 50 gold, but it is 
doubled because the attack targets multiple enemies. In addition, this is a 
level 3 ability card  , so another 50 gold is added, for a total of 150 gold. 
Afterwards, the Brute now wants to add an attack hex to the action  . 
This would normally cost 66 gold (200 gold divided by three existing hexes, 
rounded down), but again, 50 gold is added because the card is level 3, 
and now an additional 75 gold is added because the action was previously 
enhanced once, for a total 191 gold.
MUDDLE -
Brute Force

ANNOUNCING RETIREMENT
If a character currently fulfills the conditions of his or her personal quest and is visiting Gloomhaven, the 
character must announce retirement. The character may perform any other town activities beforehand, 
but he or she cannot play any new scenarios using a character with a fulfilled personal quest. The character 
has accomplished his or her dreams and has no more motivation to go exploring monster-filled ruins. All the 
materials for the character are returned to the box, any items the character owned are returned to the city’s 
available supply, and all money the character owned is gone. Additionally, the city gains 1 prosperity.
Fulfilling personal quests will always unlock new content for the game. They will allow the player to open a 
sealed box or envelope, which will usually unlock a new character class. Any time players are directed to open 
a box or envelope and it has already been opened because of some previous condition, a new random item 
design and random side scenario are unlocked instead (see p. 38 for details). When a personal quest is fulfilled, 
the personal quest card is removed from the game.
Each time an individual player retires a character, that player also gains one extra perk to apply to all future 
characters they create. This effect is cumulative, so when a player retires their second character, his or her next 
character would gain two additional perks. Though this effect is applied to players, if one player is controlling 
multiple characters at once in a campaign (e.g., solo play), he or she considers each character lineage they 
control a different player for this bonus.
When a specific character class retires for the first time, new city and road events are usually added to the 
events decks. The reference number for these is written on the back side of the class’s character mat in the 
bottom right (rightmost number). In addition, whenever a new character class is unlocked through retirement 
or other means, new city and road events are also added to the decks. This reference number is on the back 
side of the unlocked class’s character mat in the bottom right (leftmost number). Each reference number 
applies to both the city and road event decks.
When a player’s character retires, they can choose a new character to play, drawing two new personal quest 
cards, keeping one and discarding the other. Players are free to use the same class for their new character, but 
fulfilling personal quests usually unlocks a new class, encouraging players to explore new play styles over the 
course of the campaign. New characters may start at any level equal to or less than the current prosperity level 
of the town.
It is possible to run out of available personal quest cards. If there are no personal quest cards left when a player 
creates a new character, then that character does not receive a personal quest. A character without a personal 
quest can never retire, though the player is still free to switch characters whenever he or she wishes.
GLOOMHAVEN PROSPERITY
As the characters grow in power, the town of Gloomhaven grows in prosperity. Gloomhaven prosperity can 
be gained either through certain events or by completing certain scenarios. The prosperity points are tracked 
along the bottom of the map board  , and the town will attain new levels when reaching the designated 
thresholds.
When the city reaches a new level of prosperity, players gain two benefits:
New items become available for purchase, according to the chart on p. 43. 
New characters may begin at any level equal to or less than the prosperity level of the town. Likewise, 
any character with a level lower than the prosperity level may immediately advance their level to match. 
In either case, follow the level-up steps on p. 44, adjusting the character’s experience value to the 
minimum value required for the new level.

Scenario Completion
Special Conditions for Opening Envelopes
Gain 5 “Ancient Technology” global achievements – open envelope 
Have a party gain both “The Drake’s Command” and “The Drake’s Treasure” party achievements 
– add City Event 75 and Road Event 66 to the decks, and gain “The Drake Aided” global achievement 
Donate a total of 100 gold to the Sanctuary of the Great Oak – open envelope 
When a new scenario is unlocked, find its corresponding number on the world map using its grid location and 
place the sticker matching the scenario on top of it  . Note that the scenario numbers in circles within the 
story text do not unlock scenarios. These are simply references to what the story text is referring to. If an item 
is gained as a reward, players should find one copy of that item from the deck of unavailable items and give it 
to one of the present characters. If an item design is gained as a reward, players should find all copies of that 
item from the deck of unavailable items and add them to the city’s available supply of items.
When a scenario is successfully completed as part of the 
campaign, a number of rewards are gained by the party. 
These are listed at the end of the scenario’s entry in 
the Scenario Book. Rewards can include global or party 
achievements, extra gold or experience for each party 
member, prosperity increases, unlocked scenarios, items, 
or item designs. As discussed on p. 42, if a scenario reward 
directs a party to lose something, they can’t lose more than 
what they have.
Have a party reputation of 10 or higher – open box 
Have a party reputation of 20 – add City Event 76 and Road Event 67 to the deck 
Have a party reputation of -10 or lower – open box 
Have a party reputation of -20 – add City Event 77 and Road Event 68 to the deck 
 
Retire a character – open the Town Records Book
Game Variant: Reduced Randomness
If players desire to reduce the variance in damage caused by the “2x”   and “Null”   attack modifier 
effects, they can instead treat BLESS    and the standard “2x” cards as a +2   modifier and 
CURSE    and the standard “Null” cards as a -2    modifier. Players should still shuffle the 
corresponding attack modifier deck at the end of a round after one of these cards is drawn.
15 gold each
+1 prosperity
Rewards :
Jekserah’s Plans
Party Achievement :
Gloomhaven Warehouse 8 (C-18),
Diamond Mine 9 (L-2)
New Locations :

Game Variant: Permanent Death
If players desire an extra threat of danger, they can decide to play Gloomhaven with permanent death. Any 
character will permanently die when they drop below one hit point (instead of being exhausted). Characters 
can still become exhausted as normal if they are unable to rest or play cards, except that their figure remains 
on the map and can still be targeted by monster attacks. The character cannot act at all and is considered to 
have an initiative of 99 for the purposes of monster focus. After a scenario is failed, any character who is still 
alive at the end of the round survives and can continue playing.
When a character dies, all the materials for the character are returned to the box, any items the character 
owned are returned to the city’s available supply, all money the character owned is gone, their personal quest 
is shuffled back into the personal quest deck, and their character sheet is removed from the game. The player 
whose character died must then create a new character (see Creating New Characters on p. 42 for details) to 
continue playing. 
Game Variant: Random Dungeon Deck
Instead of playing through a scenario from the Scenario Book, players always have the option to play through a 
random dungeon instead. Random dungeons will not progress the campaign in any way, but they can be used 
to gain additional experience, money, checkmarks, and personal quest progress for characters.
Each random dungeon consists of three randomly generated rooms and the goal is always to clear all rooms of 
monsters. The three rooms will be set up one at a time, with the next room only being revealed once the door 
to it has been opened. Each room is set up using a room card and a monster card, each drawn randomly from 
the tops of their shuffled decks.
•	 A noun title  . When combined with the adjective title on the 
monster card, this provides the full title of the room. 
•	 A graphical depiction of the map tile(s) used in the setup of the 
room along with twelve numerical designations of where various 
elements of the monster card are placed during setup  . The 
room setup will also depict any obstacle overlay tiles to be placed. 
It is possible to run out of specific overlay tiles when setting up the 
second or third room. In these cases, use a comparable overlay tile 
of the same type. 
•	 Designations for where players enter  or exit  the room and 
what types the entrance(s) and exit(s) are (see below for details). 
Entrances and exits always correspond to the nearest half-hex of 
the tile with a puzzle connection. If this is the first room of the 
dungeon, players can place their figure on any empty hex within 
two hexes of the entrance. If the first room has multiple entrances, 
players can collectively choose on which entrance to start. 
A ROOM CARD INCLUDES:
Tile: H1b
Major: MUDDLE 
 all characters permanently.
Minor: MUDDLE 
 all characters.
Sewer

•	 The entrance type available for the room on the back of the card  . There are two types of entrances and 
exits: A and B. If players exit a room from an A exit, they must enter the next room from an A entrance and 
vice versa with B. If the entrance of the top room in the deck does not match the exit the players used in 
the previous room, the top card is discarded until a matching entrance type is found. 
 
If a room has two exits, players may use whichever one they wish, though the one they don’t use is closed 
off. If a room has two entrances, players must use the entrance that corresponds to the previous room’s 
exit.
•	 Penalties for revealing the room  . Whenever a new room is revealed and set up, a penalty may activate 
depending on the room and the difficulty decided on by the players. The suggested difficulty is to use 
no penalties in the first room, the minor penalty of the second room when it is revealed, and the major 
penalty of the third room when it is revealed. Players can decrease or increase the number and severity of 
the penalties as they like, up to a point where major penalties are activated for each of the three rooms 
when they are revealed. If the character who opened the door is referenced in the penalty of the first 
room, players can decide who the penalty targets. If the previous room is referenced in the penalty of the 
first room, nothing happens. 
•	 The specific map tile(s) used to create the room  .
 
Credits
A MONSTER CARD INCLUDES:
•	 An adjective title  . When combined with the noun title on the 
room card, this provides the full title of the room. 
•	 Designations for the twelve numbered spaces on the room 
card  . Each monster has designations for a two, three, and four 
character game, as in the normal setup for a scenario. 
•	 Descriptions for any treasure tile contents  . Though treasure 
tiles in a random dungeon will never contain elements important 
to the campaign, they can contain a number of useful benefits for 
the players. 
•	 Designations of trap types  . Note that the red damage 
symbol   indicates the trap is a damage trap.
GAME DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT: Isaac Childres 
GRAPHIC DESIGN: Josh McDowell, Isaac Childres
ART: Alexandr Elichev, Álvaro Nebot, Josh McDowell
SCULPTING: James Van Schaik
EDITING: Jim Spivey, Mathew G. Somers, Marcel Cwertetschka
STORY AND WORLD-BUILDING: Isaac Childres
SPECIAL THANKS:
Kristyn Childres, Katie, Finn, Ada, and Cora McDowell, Charilaos 
Bacharis, Clinton Bradford, Brandon Butcher, Travis Chance, 
Joseph Childres, Rob Daviau, Paul Grogan, Brendon Hall, 
Richard Ham, Kasper Hansen, Walker Hardin, Chuck Hennemann, 
Scott Horton, Brian Hunter, David Isakov, Alexander Klatte, Carl 
Klutzke, Brian Lee, Nick Little, Kevin Manning, Jan Meyberg, 
Timo Multamäki, Ray Phay, Joan Prats, Andrew Ritchey, Adam 
Sadler, Brady Sadler, Eric Sanson, Scott Starkey, JC Trombley, Arne 
Vikhagen, Michael Wilkins, Stefan Zappe
KICKSTARTER CONTRIBUTORS:
I would like to sincerely thank all the backers of the Gloomhaven 
Kickstarter project. It was a long journey, and I only made it 
through with your help. I could not have asked for a more 
supportive group of people.
I would also like to specifically thank the backers who created 
official scenarios during the campaign: Marcel Cwertetschka, 
Tim and Kim De Smet, Jared Gillespie, David Isakov, 
Jeremy Kaemmer, Mathew G. Somers 
a lost 
Drowned

L
- Scenario Level
- Monster Level
G
- Gold Conversion
T
- Trap Damage
XP - Bonus Experience
No Monster
Easy
-1
Normal
+0
Hard
+1
Very Hard
+2
Difficulty
Normal Monster
Elite Monster
L
G
T
XP
Fire
Air
Ice
Remove
from Game
Initiative
p.18
p.12
Earth
XP
Use Slot
Use Slot: 
Gain XP
Light
Any
Element
Return
to Deck
Cannot 
Average level ∕ 2, rounded up
p.26
Retaliate
p.26
Target
Loot
Shield
Shuffle
p.32
Player 
Hex
Lost or 
Consumed
p.8,17
Persistent
Round
-1 Attack
Modifier
Refresh 
Spend
Hex
Dark
Use
Element
BLESS
CURSE
IMMOBILIZE
Head
Body
Legs
One Hand Two Hands Small Item
PULL
INVISIBILITY
STRENGTHEN
General Icons
Element Icons (p.24)
Equip Slots (p.8)
Enhancing
Conditions and Effects (pp.22­–23)
Monster Key (p.13)
Scenario Level (p.15)
Cards
Battle
Goal
p.10
Road
Event
Character
p.7
p.51
City
Event
You decide to unwind at the 
Sleeping Lion, but just as you 
are starting to relax, a bear of a man 
crashes into your table, scattering your 
drinks across the ﬂ oor.
Towering over him is a massive Inox. “What 
did you say about my horns?” the Inox shouts.
The man stands up and brushes shards of glass 
from his tunic. “I said the sight of them makes 
me want to vomit!”
The Inox roars and charges headlong into 
the man, crashing through more tables in the 
process. At this, the entire tavern erupts into 
violence. After all, when a man is deep into his 
drink, the last thing you want to do is knock that 
drink over.
Option A: Join the fray! These insults will not go 
unanswered!
Option B: Do your best to stop the ﬁ ghting. This 
is a respectable establishment.
Room 
p.50
Personal
Quest
p.10
pp.45–47
Fly
Modifier
p.11
Second Printing