Citizens of Rome! Caesar demands ACTION!
64 AD: Rome is in turmoil – the city has been devastated by fire. Emperor 
Nero is racing back from Antium to start rebuilding Structures lost to the flames. 
Caesar expects your aid in his historic effort to restore Glory To Rome.
Contents
208 playing cards 
	
159 Order cards (of 44 different available types) 
	
36 Sites (building types are built at particular Sites) 
	
6 Jacks (handy for doing the job you need done) 
	
1 Leader Card with white card stand 
	
6 Merchant Bonus cards 
5 Player Camps 
1 oversized ‘Rome Demands…’ card
Objective
In Glory To Rome you play a young Patrician hoping to gain Influence and for-
tune by helping to rebuild Rome after the great fire of 64 AD. 
The object of the game is to gain wealth and power (Victory Points) by both 
completing Structures for Emperor Nero and selling the building materials for 
your personal gain!
A STRATEGY CARDGAME BY CARL CHUDYK
for 2-5 players, ages 12 and up
About Us
Carl Chudyk graduated from MIT in ‘97 with a B.S. in Math.Entering the real 
world at the height of the dotcom rush, he promptly moved to California with 
the rest of his generation. As the bubble burst, Carl returned to Massachu-
setts and spent the next three years practicing game design during days 
as a foot messenger for RS Express, a downtown courier service in Boston. 
During this time he frequently attended the MIT Strategic Games Society to 
play favorite games and test new ones. Since Glory to Rome, Carl has gone 
on to publish other games including Innovation from Asmadi games.
Cambridge Games Factory began in 2004 as a late night conversation at 
the MIT Strategic Games Society about the challenges for new designers to 
get proto-types into print. A year later, we published our first four Games: 
Glory to Rome, Ice Pirates of Harbour Grace, Splat! and Sneeze. 
We’re delighted by the superb feedback and reviews that Glory To Rome 
has been receiving, especially since this helps build interest in our games 
without a huge marketing budget. As our company develops we’re looking to 
work with new designers to get their first games published, so expect to see 
some new faces with our next set of releases. If you’d like to be one of them, 
why not shoot us an email at ideas@cambridgegames.com 
Glory to rome black box edition
Design	
Carl Chudyk, Ed Carter 
Development	
Eric Nielsen, Rob Seater 
Artwork and Graphic Design	
Heiko Günther 
CAMBRIDGE GAMES FACTORY
www.cambridgegames.com
Managing Director	
Ed Carter 
Games Development Director	
Rob Seater 
Creative Director	
Heiko Günther
YES! We’d love to see your game idea! 

R ubble
Br i c k
l at r in e
palisade
s tatue
sc h ool
s c h ool
architect 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in f lu e n ce
s toc k p ile
vau lt
c l i e n t el e
Merc ha nt
b onu s
+3 victory points for
the player with the most
Stone in his Vault at
the end of the game.
The Cards
Order (159 cards, 44 different types)
The main deck of cards in Glory To Rome are ‘Order’ cards. These cards 
begin in your hand as instructions from Nero to help rebuild Rome, but can 
become Clients, Materials, Structures or Money as the game progresses
Sites (36 Cards, 6 types)
Show a Material and its associated 
value. You need a new Site to start a 
new Foundation—when they run out 
Rome is fully restored!
Leader (1 Card) 
Signifies whose turn it is. On your turn 
you either direct play by leading a 
Role or Think and draw more cards.
Jacks (6 Cards, 2 types) 
Fictional Roman citizens of all trades. 
Jacks may be used to lead as or 
follow any Role.
Merchant Bonus (6 Cards, 6 types) 
One card for each Material worth 
3 victory points. Awarded during 
scoring to the player with most Mate-
rials of that type in their Vault at the 
end of the game. 
Role
A type of Client or 
action
Material
A type of building Material
Function
The special ability you gain 
if you complete this Structure
Foundation name
The Structure you start to 
build if you play this card 
as a Foundation
Value
How many Materials 
it takes to complete 
this Structure and how 
much this Material is 
worth if you sell it
Your Camp
During the game you hire Clients and gather Materials to help rebuild Rome 
(or your personal fortune). Your Camp card organizes your Clients and Mate-
rials, and also tracks your growing Influence.
Clientele (limited by Influence)
Clients go here – the loyal 
citizens of Rome who have 
agreed to work for you.
Stockpile (no limit)
Keep Materials here until you 
are ready to use or sell them.
Vault (limited by Influence)
Hidden stash of personal profit 
from filched materials.
Influence (starts at 2)
Your social standing in Rome. Limits 
both Clientele and Vault and counts 
as Victory Points for scoring.

Before We Begin... 
Glory To Rome takes a little getting used to. The core game manages 5 dif-
ferent card states (role, person, material, money, building) with six different 
action types and a role based phase order which will probably trip you 
up for your first few rounds. On top of that you have forty different building 
powers which have a huge Influence on the game. While no single card is a 
‘Must Build’, many combinations are extremely powerful.
From your very first turns you will be presented with deep strategic choices 
influencing the entire character of the game, but until you have a good 
understanding of the core game mechanics and some insight into how the 
various building powers are capable of changing them, you’re really not at 
all equipped to make these decisions.
Teaching New Players
‘Let’s just start’ does NOT work well for this game! Start by explaining the 
game concepts including the cards, the sections of the Camp as well as the 
Site / Foundation / Materials / Influence cycle of building buildings.
It can also help to play your first few turns face up so that new players can 
see the full game mechanics. Try to play all six Roles early in the game so 
they see what each action does.
Learning From The Rules
Training Game: If you’re learning the game from the rules, then the first time 
you play we recommend that you play without the building powers to get 
the hang of the core game mechanism and then switch to the full version of 
the game the next time you play.
We’ve added blue reminders to let you know where to play differently for 
the beginners version of Glory To Rome. For the full game, ignore anything 
written in blue (except this).
Set-Up
Place a Camp card face up in front of each player. Place the large ‘Rome 
Demands’ card in the middle of the playing surface.
Starting Hands
Shuffle the Order cards and deal each player five cards face down. Place 
the Jack cards in the middle of the playing surface in a pile.
Starting Sites
Create a stack of each Site card equal to the number of players in the game 
– these should be arranged so that you can easily see how many are left. 
Leave the unselected Sites in stacks beside these, upside-down. The upside-
down Sites are Out of Town Sites.
Determining Starting Player
Deal one Order card face up into the Pool for each player. The player who-
se card comes first in the alphabet starts – deal extra cards into the Pool in 
order to break ties. Place the Leader card face-up in front of the player who 
is starting. 
Starting Pool
Place all the face up Order cards in the middle of the playing surface besi-
de the pile of Jacks – they are the starting Pool. Place the remaining Order 
cards face down beside the Pool to form the draw pile. 
Training Game: To speed up the training game, use at most three of each 
Site card and remove half the draw pile from play.
D OC K
LABORER action, you
material from your hand.
Maximum clientele +2
I N S U L A
Each of your clients
may perform its action 
 twice when you 
 lead or follow its role.
C IRCU S 
MA X IMU S
client from your hand. 
 Maximum clientele x2 
AQUEDUCT
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TACOMB is built
 
 
 
 
CON CR ET E
R UBBLE
WOOD
B RI C K
S TON E
CON C RETE
WOO D
BRI C K
S TONE
CON C RETE
R UBBL E
WO OD
BR IC K
S TONE
MARBLE
MARBLE
S TO N E
WOOD
CON CR ET E
R UB BL E
LEADER
LEAD
a role from your hand
or
THINK
and draw new cards
Draw Pile
Sites
Player 1 
Player
Player 3
Player 2

Game Play
On each turn the player with the Leader card (‘The Leader‘) decides what 
type of turn (Role) it is going to be, and then each other player decides whe-
ther to participate (Follow) or draw cards (Think).
Here’s how to play each turn:
1	The Leader may either: 
 
•‘Think‘ and draw additional cards (see below). 
	
 In this case her turn ends immediately. 
 
•‘Lead’ by playing an Order card from her hand on top of her 
	
 Camp. This determines the Role for all players for this turn.
2	If the Leader ‘leads’ then in clockwise order around the table each other 
player may either: 
 
•‘Think’ and draw more cards (see below). 
 
•‘Follow’ by playing an Order card of the same Role as the Leader.
3	After all players decide whether to follow or think, the Leader may per-
form one action for leading, plus an additional action for each Client she 
has of her chosen Role.
4	In clockwise order, each other player now gets to perform one action if 
he chose to follow, plus an additional action for each Client he has of the 
chosen Role. Players who thought instead of following do still get to take 
actions for their Clients!
5	Once all players have finished, move all Order cards played as Roles off 
the Camps into the Pool.
The Leader now passes the Leader card to the player on her left and that 
player becomes Leader for the next turn.
Jacks
Jacks are wild cards. On your turn as Leader you may lead one as any Role 
except Thinker by playing it onto your Camp and announcing which Role the 
Jack is. You may also follow any Role with a Jack just as if it were a card of 
the type led.
At the end of each turn, any Jacks played return to the Jacks pile beside the 
Pool. Jacks cannot be taken or played as Materials or Clients.
Petitioning
You may also lead or follow by 
playing any two Order cards of the 
same Role (color) as a Jack. You 
may play two cards of the Role you 
wish to play (e.g. playing two yellow 
cards as a Laborer) however you 
may not play two Jacks as a Jack. 
Thinking
When you pass, you immediately 
perform one Thinker action. You 
may choose ONE of the following 
actions: 
• Take one Jack (if available).
• Draw as many Order cards from 
the draw pile as you need to fill 
to your hand refill size (normally 
five).
• Draw one additional Order card 
(if you are at or above your hand 
refill size).
If you choose to draw Order cards 
then you must draw to hand refill 
size. You may not fill your hand 
partially. 
If on your turn as Leader you choose 
to Think instead of leading a Role 
card from your hand then the other 
players do not get to follow. When 
you are finished the turn ends and 
you pass the Leader card to the 
player on your left.
sample turn 
STEP 1
Player 1 is Leader and plays a yellow card 
to lead Laborer
STEP 2
Player 2 plays a Jack to follow Laborer.
Player 3 chooses not to follow, and instead 
Thinks, immediately drawing Order cards to 
bring her hand up to 5.
Player 4 also decides not to follow but al-
ready has 5 cards. He draws 1 more Order 
card, bringing his hand up to 6.
STEP 3
Player 1 has a Laborer in his Clientele. He 
performs 2 Laborer actions - one for lea-
ding and one for his Client.
STEP 4
Player 2 performs 1 Laborer action for fol-
lowing - he doesn‘t have a Laborer Client.
Player 3 has 2 Laborers in her Clientele. 
She didn‘t follow but may perform 2 Laborer 
actions for her Clients.
Player 4 didn‘t follow and doesn‘t have a 
Laborer Client, so he gets no actions.
STEP 5
The yellow card Player 1 used to lead is 
placed in the Pool and Player 2‘s Jack is 
placed on the pile next to the Draw Pile.
This turn is completed. Player 2 now beco-
mes Leader for the next turn.

sc hool
ma r k e t
Lead or 
crafts
Lay a fo
 from yo
or fill a
from yo
arch
Lay a
 from y
or fill
 from 
mer
Put 
 from
 into
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
influe n ce
s toc kpile
cli ente le
sc ho o l
s tat u e
Upon comple
you may perfor
THINKER action
each Influenc
s c h
ma rket
imperium romanu
 
 
 
republica rom
 
 
 
 
i nf
limits cli
s to c k p i l e
c li e n t e le
R U B
Before performin
one card to Pool
l atr i n e
pa l i sa d e
market
Hiring Clients
You execute a Patron action by taking a card from the Pool and tucking it 
underneath the left edge of your Camp so only the Role name is showing. It 
is now a Client in your Clientele. 
Your total number of Clients is limited by your current Influence – you start 
the game with two Influence.
Clients
Each of your Clients may perform its action in any turn when its Role is led – 
even if you decide to Think rather than follow. 
Example: If you have two Laborer Clients and another player leads with a 
Laborer card, you may either follow with a Laborer card and perform three 
Laborer actions or execute one Thinker action immediately and still perform 
two Laborer actions later in the turn. 
A new Client does not perform its action during the turn that it is hired – you 
must wait until the next turn in which its Role is led. 
Patron: Hire Client
Move one card from the 
POOL into your CLIENTELE
Gathering Materials
You execute a Laborer Role by taking a card from the Pool (if available) and 
tucking it underneath your Camp on its bottom edge so that only the Material 
name is showing. The card is now a Material in your Stockpile. 
Players perform the Laborer action in turn clockwise around the table; if there 
are not enough cards in the Pool then players later in the turn order may be 
unable to take a card. Note that the cards players use to lead as or follow 
the Laborer Role are not yet in the Pool and may not be taken.
LABOREr: Gather Material 
Move one card from the 
POOL into your STOCKPILE

R ubble
R ub b l e
Wo o d
Wood
Wo o d
Wo od
Foundation +2 materi
Co n cre t e
Foundation +2 materia
Co n cre te
Client from the deck.
ba r
mar k e t
s c ho o l
sc h o o l
Maximum Clientele +2
i n s u l a
s c ri ptori u m
scriptoriu m
pa l isad e
Building Structures
You perform Architect and Craftsman actions in order to build Structures and 
restore glory to Rome. 
It usually takes several rounds to complete a Structure. You may work on 
several different Structures at once, even on the same turn, however you do 
not gain the benefit of a Structure (increased Influence and its function) until 
it is completed.
Laying a Foundation
Perform one Architect or Craftsman action to place an Order card from your 
hand in front of you; it is the Foundation of the Structure you are starting. 
Take a Site card of the matching Material and tuck it underneath the bottom 
of the Foundation so that the diagonal construction stripes are showing. 
You may not lay an Order card as a Foundation if either: 
1.	There is no Site of matching Material left. 
2.	You already have a Foundation or Structure of the same name in play.
You may lay a Foundation with the same name as an opponent’s Foundati-
on or Structure.
Out of Town Sites
The upside-down Sites are outside Rome. To lay a Foundation on an Out of 
Town Site, you must perform two consecutive Architect or Craftsman actions 
on the same turn. Without a Client of the matching Role, it is normally not 
possible to build outside of town.
Architect: Lay Foundation 
HAND onto a new SITE to 
start a new STRUCTURE
CRAFTSMAN: Lay Foundation 
HAND onto a new SITE to 
start a new STRUCTURE
Your Hand
Sites

s c hoo l
sc h o o l
m a r k et
Client from the deck.
ba r
sc hool
sc ho ol
tow er
C O N C R E
tow e r
architect 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
s to c kpi le
vau lt
c li e n t e le
Br i c k
s c ho o l
Adding Materials to a Building
To add Material into a Structure, it must already have a Site and Foundation 
– although these may be provided by laying a Foundation on the same turn 
(see above). The Material used to build the Structure must match the Mate-
rial shown on the Foundation card (i.e. the Foundation and Material cards 
must be the same color). 
To perform an Architect action, take a matching Material from your Stockpile 
and tuck it underneath the bottom of the bottom card underneath the Found-
ation so that the Material type is showing.
To perform a Craftsman action, take a matching Material from your hand 
and tuck it underneath the bottom of the bottom card underneath the Found-
ation so that the Material type is showing.
Completing a Structure
Completing a Structure requires a Foundation, a Site and one, two, or three 
additional Material cards depending upon the Value on the Foundation 
card (see below). 
When you complete a Structure, take its Site card and tuck it underneath the 
top edge of your Camp so that the gold coins are showing. The Materials 
stay with the completed Structure.
Benefits of Completing a Structure
Your Influence increases by the value (number of gold coins) of the comple-
ted Site. This allows you to hire more Clients and store more Materials in 
your Vault. In addition, you gain the benefit of the Structure’s Function (see 
Appendix).
Both of these effects happen immediately – you may benefit from them on 
the turn the Structure is completed!
Training Game: Ignore the special Function available for completing the 
Structure – you still gain the additional Influence.
Architect: Build Structure 
STOCKPILE into STRUCTURE
CRAFTSMAN: Build Structure 
HAND into STRUCTURE
Your Hand

NARY role, put the material you demand from your HAND on this mat.
f this material from the POOL and each of your neighbors‘ HANDs into 
material from this mat back into your HAND.
l atr i ne
Be
you may disca
bar
 from y
s to c k pi le
ins u l a
s to c kpile
pali sade
pal i sad e
Immune t
LEGIO
Demanding Materials
You perform a Legionary action as follows:
1.	 Turn over an Order card (not a Jack) in your hand, and then place your 
	
entire hand on the oversized ‘Rome Demands‘ Card so that this Material 
	
is showing. 
2.	 Say ‘Rome demands {name of Material}.’ 
3.	 If there are card(s) of the same color in the Pool then you may 
	
immediately take one and place it in your STOCKPILE. 
4.	 If your neighbors (the players sitting left and right of you) have one or 
	
more cards of the color you are demanding in their hand then they must 
	
give one to you – again you place it into your STOCKPILE. 
5.	 If either neighbor does not have a matching card she says ‘Glory to 
	
Rome!’, and you get nothing from that player. 
6.	 Once you have completed the action pick up your hand and turn over the 
	
Order card you revealed so that it is no longer showing -- the card you 
	
use to demand Materials never leaves your hand. 
In a two-player game, your opponent is your only neighbor. 
Legionary Clients
If you perform more than one Legionary action in the same turn you must 
reveal all Materials you are demanding at once. You may ask for any com-
bination of Materials in your hand, including multiples of the same Material 
if you have duplicate cards. If a neighbor has part of what you are deman-
ding, he gives up as much as he has.
If you have fewer Order cards left in your hand than the Legionary actions 
you have available the extra actions are lost. 
A player must say how many cards he has if asked.
LEgionary: Demand Material 
Move one card from each of 
your neighbor‘s HANDS and 
POOL into your STOCKPILE
‘Rome demands 
Rubble!‘
Selling Materials
You perform a Merchant action by taking one Material card from your Stockpile 
and tucking it face-down underneath the right edge of your Camp – into your 
Vault. The Values of cards in your Vault count as Victory Points at the end of the 
game. 
The number of cards in your Vault is public information, as is the identity of a 
card in your Vault on the turn that you put it in; however, after the turn that it is 
put in no player may inspect the identity of a card in your Vault – not even you!
Space in your Vault is limited by your current Influence. You start the game with 
two Influence.
Merchant Bonuses
At the end of the game all players uncover their Vaults and the three-point bo-
nus card is awarded for each Material to the player with most of that Material 
in his Vault. If there is a tie for a Material, that bonus card is not granted.
MERCHANT: Sell Material 
STOCKPILE into your VAULT
Left neighbor‘s hand
Right neighbor‘s 
hand: No Rubble 
(‘Glory to Rome!‘)

B r i c k
R ub b le
er
our 
ize
ard
ACK
HAND
 
 
 
 
influen ce
Me rc h ant
b o n us
+3 victory points for
the player with the most
Stone in hi
MARBLE Structures
provide their functions
as soon as you
lay their Foundations.
gat e
sc r ip tori um
LEGIONARY action, you 
may additionally tear down 
one matching incomplete 
building with no material 
of each opponent. Place 
Foundation in your Stockpile 
and Site in your Influence.
do mu s 
au r e a
Ending the Game
The game ends when any of the following occur: 
• The draw deck runs out (you may count it). 
• A player lays a Foundation which claims the last Site card (see above) 
	
that is not Out of Town. This Structure can never be finished. 
• A Catacomb is completed (see Appendix : Catacomb, p.20). 
• Any player has a completed Forum Romanum Structure and at least one 
	
of each Client type in Clientele and one Material of each type in Stockpile 
	
(see Appendix : Forum Romanum, p.22). 
• All other players agree to ‘surrender’ to a player for any reason 
	
(e.g. bribery, intimidation, etc.).
The game ends immediately – players do not continue with the current turn 
and do not perform any more actions. 
Training Game: Since building functions are not in effect, the Catacomb and 
Forum Romanum end conditions do not apply.
Scoring and Winning
In the event of a Forum Romanum or ‘surrender’ victory that player wins –
there is no need to score Victory Points.
You score Victory Points as follows: 
• 1 Victory Point for each Influence 
• The combined Value of cards in your Vault 
• 3 Victory Points for each Merchant Bonus card
If you have completed Structures whose Functions grant Victory Points (e.g. 
Statue, Wall) determine the amounts granted and add them to your Victory 
Point score.
The player with the most Victory Points wins. If there is a tie, the tying player 
with the most cards in his hand wins.
5 Influence
	
+	
+	
=	
	Influence	 Vault	 	 Bonus 		 Final 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 Score
8 Vault
3 Bonus 
(most Stone 
in Vault)
Appendix i – Building Functions
Training Game: Since building functions aren’t used you can ignore the rest of the 
rulebook (except the Thank You at the end!)
Academy
You may execute one Thinker action after any turn in which you execute at least one 
Craftsman action – even if it’s only with a Client. You gain the benefit of the Function 
of the Academy on the same turn as the Academy is completed.
You have an Academy and two Craftsman Clients. You have no cards in your hand. 
The player to your right leads as Craftsman. You pass and execute a Thinker action, 
drawing five new Order cards. The player to your right executes his Craftsman action. 
You execute your two Clients’ Craftsman actions by playing two cards as new Found-
ations. You activate your Academy and draw two more Order cards, ending your turn 
with five cards.
Amphitheatre
When you complete an Amphitheatre, you may immediately execute one Craftsman 
action for every point of Influence you have, including the Influence you get from 
finishing the Amphitheatre.
You complete an Amphitheatre as your first Structure. You now have four Influence. 
You now have a one-time option to execute up to four Craftsman actions. You decide 
to execute two by playing the Foundation for a Shrine from your hand, and then put 
one Brick Material into it from your hand.
Aqueduct
Your maximum Clientele is doubled. This includes the maximum Clientele increase you 
get from the two Influence you gain from finishing the Aqueduct.
You have an Insula (+2 Clientele). You complete an Aqueduct as your second Struc-
ture. Your maximum Clientele is now five Influence, plus two from the Function of the 
Insula, doubled by the Function of the Aqueduct, for a total of fourteen.
Every time you perform the Patron action you may choose to take an additional card 
from your hand as a Client into your Clientele. You do not need to take a Client from 
the Pool in order to take this additional Client from your hand.
You own an Aqueduct and have a Patron Client. There is one Merchant in the Pool. 
You lead as a Patron. The other players do not follow. You take the Merchant Client 
from the Pool into your Clientele and a Legionary Client from your hand into your 
Clientele as your first Patron action. You take another Legionary Client from your hand 
into your Clientele as your second Patron action.

Archway
When executing an Architect action you may take cards from the Pool (instead of your 
Stockpile) as Materials to place into Structure Foundations. If you execute more than 
one action in a turn you may take from either or both places as you see fit. You cannot 
use cards from the Pool as Structure Foundations.
You own an Archway and have an Architect Client. You have the Foundation for a 
Gate. You have a Brick in your Stockpile and there is also a Brick in the Pool. You lead 
as an Architect and the other players all follow. You take the Brick from the Pool and 
place it underneath your Gate Foundation. Next you take the Brick from your Stockpile 
and place it underneath the Foundation as well, completing the Gate.
Atrium
When executing a Merchant action, you may take an Order card from the deck 
instead of your Stockpile and place it in your Vault without looking at it. If you execute 
more than one action in a turn you may take from either or both as you sees fit.
You own an Atrium and have a Merchant Client. You have Stone in your Stockpile. The 
player to your right leads as Merchant. You follow with a Jack. She takes a Concrete 
from her Stockpile and puts it into her Vault. You decide to take the Stone from your 
Stockpile and an unknown card from the deck and place them in your Vault.
Bar
Each time you execute a Patron action, you may choose to take an additional card 
from the draw deck as a Client into your Clientele. You do not need to take a Client 
from the Pool in order to draw his additional Client from the deck, but once you draw 
from the deck you may not go back and take a Client from the Pool for that action. 
The size of your Clientele is still limited by your Influence.
You own a Bar. The player to your left owns a Bar and has a Patron Client. There are 
three Craftsmen and a Legionary in the Pool. The player to your right leads as Patron, 
you follow, and the player to your left follows. The player to your right takes a Crafts-
man Client from the Pool. You perform your Patron action, taking a Legionary from the 
Pool as a Client, and drawing an Architect from the deck as a Client. The player to 
your left decides not to take a Craftsman from the Pool on his first action, drawing just 
from the deck. It is a Legionary. On his second action he again decides to take only 
from the deck. He gets a Merchant. He is now at his Clientele limit, as his Influence is 
three. 
Basilica
Each time you execute a Merchant action, you may choose to take an additional card 
from your hand as a Material into your Vault. You do not need to move a Material 
from your Stockpile into your Vault in order to filch the additional Material from your 
hand. Do not reveal the identity of the additional filched card to your opponents.
You own a Basilica. You have a Merchant Client. You have a Brick in your Stockpile. 
You have two Concrete and a Jack in your hand. You lead the Jack as the Merchant 
Role, and the other players follow. As your first action, you move the Brick from the 
Stockpile into your Vault and a Concrete from your hand into your Vault. As your se-
cond action, you move the second Concrete from your hand into your Vault.
Bath
When you gain a new Client, you may immediately execute an action of the new 
Client’s Role. This action must be completed before a new Client is hired, although 
two actions may be combined to start an out of town Site. If the Client’s action 
completes a building then this additional Influence is available for subsequent Patron 
actions on the same turn.
You own a Bath. In the Pool are a Laborer, an Architect, a Merchant, and a Patron. 
The player to your right leads as Patron. You and the player to your left follow. The 
player to your right takes an Architect Client. You take the Patron as a Client and gain 
an extra Patron action. You execute the Patron action to take the Laborer as another 
Client, gaining an extra Laborer action which you execute to take the Stone (Mer-
chant) from the Pool into your Stockpile. The player to your left doesn’t get a Client 
– the Pool is empty!
Bath combined with Garden
If you own a Bath and complete a Garden then each new Client you hire may execute 
its action immediately. This can take a while. 
Bridge
When executing a Legionary action you may demand Materials even from opponents 
that own Palisades. In a four- or five-player game, you demand Materials from every 
opponent, not just your neighbors. As well as giving you a matching Material from 
their hands, your opponents must give you a matching Material from their Stockpile.
Players who own Walls are still protected from you.
You own a Bridge. There are four players in the game. The player to your left owns a 
Palisade. The player to your right owns a Wall. You lead as Legionary and the other 
players do not follow. 

You reveal a Forum Romanum from your hand and demand Marble. You get one 
Marble from the Pool, one Marble each from the hand of the player to your left and 
the player across from you, and one Marble each from the Stockpiles of these players, 
for a total of five Marble into your Stockpile. You retrieve your Forum Romanum back 
into your hand.
Catacomb
Upon completion of a Catacomb the game ends and the winner is determined. You 
do not continue with the turn.
You have a Catacomb Foundation in play with two Stone in it. You have two Craftsmen 
Clients. The player to your right leads as Craftsman. You do not follow, and draw up to 
your hand refill size. The player to your left follows. The Leader lays a new Founda-
tion. You now get to execute two Craftsman actions. With the first action you choose 
to complete the Catacomb with a Stone from your hand. You gain three Influence for 
completing the Catacomb and then the game ends immediately. You may not execute 
your second Craftsman action and the player to your left does not execute his Crafts-
man action.
Circus ( Imperium version only)
You may play two cards of the same Role as a Jack. (Neither of these cards can 
themselves be Jacks.)
You have in your hand a Merchant card and two Laborer cards. You own a Circus. You 
lead the two Laborer cards, saying ‘I am leading as a Patron’ and place them on your 
Camp. The other players follow the Patron Role. 
Circus Maximus
Whenever you lead or follow a Role, you may gain an additional action from each of 
your Clients of that Role.
You own a Circus Maximus. The player to your left owns a Circus Maximus. You each 
have two Merchant Clients. You lead as a Merchant. The player to your left does not 
follow. The player to your right does not follow. You perform one Merchant action, plus 
two Merchant actions due to your Clients, plus two additional Merchant actions due to 
your Clients matching your lead in the presence of a Circus Maximus, for a total of five 
Merchant actions. The player to your left performs two Merchant actions due to his 
Clients. He does not gain any additional actions from his Circus Maximus as he did 
not follow your lead of the Merchant Role.
Colosseum ( Imperium version only)
When executing a Legionary action, in addition to your regular action you may take 
matching Client cards from your opponents’ Clienteles, throw them to the lions in the 
arena and then place the cards into your Vault as Materials. If you do not have room 
in your Vault, you may not take the cards -- so your opponents’ Clients survive. If you 
have room for some but not all, you choose which Clients are slain. If Legionary Clients 
are slain they do not provide actions for their owner to execute this turn. Palisades and 
Walls protect against an opponent’s Colosseum. A Bridge expands the reach of a 
Colosseum.
You are one of three players. The only Structure you own is a Colosseum. You have in 
your hand two Legionaries, a Merchant, and a Patron. There are two Marble in the 
Pool. You have a Legionary Client and three Architect Clients. The player to your right 
has a Legionary Client and a Merchant Client. The player to your left has a Legionary 
Client and an Architect Client. 
The player to your right leads as Legionary. You follow. The player to your left passes 
and draws a Jack. The Leader demands a pair of Marble by revealing two Marble 
cards in his hand. You give him the one Marble you have in your hand, which he puts 
in his Stockpile, along with two Marble he takes from the Pool. You reveal a Brick 
(Legionary) and a Stone (Merchant) in your hand and demand these. The player to 
your left surrenders a Stone which you place in your Stockpile. You take the Legionary 
Client and Merchant Client from the player on your right and take the Legionary Client 
from the player on your left and place them into your Vault as a filched Stone and two 
filched Brick. The player on your left does not execute a Legionary action as his Legio-
nary Client has already been slain in your Colosseum.
Crane (
You may use any card from your hand to lead or follow Architect, as if it were a gray 
card.
You own a Crane. The player to your right leads a Jack and declares it to be an Ar-
chitect. You play a Laborer and declare it to also be an Architect. Resolve the Roles as 
if both had been actual gray cards.
Dock
Each time you execute a Laborer action you may choose to take an additional card 
from your hand and place it into your Stockpile as a Material. You do not need to take 
a Material from the Pool in order to take this additional Material from your hand.
You own a Dock and have a Laborer Client. There are two Wood in the Pool. 

The player to your right leads as Laborer, and you follow. The player to your right 
takes one of the Wood into his Stockpile. You take the Wood from the Pool and a Brick 
from your hand into your Stockpile as your first action. As your second action, you put 
another Brick from your hand into your Stockpile.
Domus Aurea (
When executing a Legionary action, in addition to your regular action you can also 
choose an incomplete building from each of your victims. The chosen building must 
match the demanded color and must have no Material under it. Take the Foundation 
card and put it into your Stockpile. Take the Site card and add it to your Influence.
You own a Domus Aurea. You have followed a Legionary action with a Legionary card. 
You reveal a red card from hand and demand Brick. One of your victims has an incom-
plete School with no material under it. In addition to all other Legionary effects against 
that player, you tear down your victim’s School. You put the School card itself into your 
stockpile, as a Brick material. You put the Foundation card into your Influence, adding 
2 Influence to your score.
Forum ( Imperium version only)
You win immediately whenever you have a Client of each type in your Clientele.
You and the player to your left both have a Client of each type and a Forum Found-
ation with two Marble in it. You lead as Craftsman and the other players follow. You 
move Marble from your hand into the Forum, completing it. You win. She doesn’t.
Forum Romanum (
You immediately win the game if you have one Client of each type Clientele and one 
Material of each type in your Stockpile.
You and the player to your left both have a Client of each type, a Material of each 
type, and a Forum Romanum Foundation with two Marble in it. You lead as Craftsman 
and the other players follow. You move Marble from your hand into the Forum Roma-
num, completing it. You win. She doesn’t.
Forum (Romanum) combined with Ludus Magna
If you have completed both a Forum (Romanum) and a Ludus Magna, then each Mer-
chant Client may be counted as any one Role towards the Forum (Romanum) victory 
condition.
Forum (Romanum) combined with Stairway
If making a Forum (Romanum) public triggers the Forum (Romanum) victory for two or 
more players simultaneously, the winner of the game is the player among those with 
the highest score as determined normally. 
Forum (Romanum) combined with Storeroom
If you have completed both a Forum (Romanum) and a Storeroom then any Client may 
count as a Laborer towards the Forum (Romanum) victory condition instead of its usual 
Role. Clients may not count as both at once.
Foundry
When you complete a Foundry, at this time once only, you may perform one Laborer 
action for each point of Influence you have, including the Influence you gain from 
finishing the Foundry.
In the Pool are a Wood, two Brick, and two Marble. You lead as a Craftsman, and the 
other players follow. You complete a Foundry as your first Structure. You now have four 
Influence. You now have the one-time option to perform the Laborer action up to four 
times. You take the two Brick and two Marble from the Pool into your Stockpile.
Fountain
When executing a Craftsman action, you may take a card from the draw deck instead 
of from your hand. Upon inspecting the drawn card, you may either lay it as a Founda-
tion, spend a second action to lay it as a Foundation on an out of town Site, place the 
card as a Material into one of his existing Foundations, or take the card into his hand. 
The function of the Fountain is available as soon as it is completed.
You have two Craftsman Clients. You have a Fountain. You lead as Craftsman. The 
other players follow. With your first action you use the Fountain’s Function to draw a 
card from the draw deck, a Palisade. You place the Palisade on an available Wood 
Site. With your second action, you draw another Palisade card, which you place into 
your Palisade Foundation as Wood, completing it. With your third action, you draw yet 
another Palisade, which you place into your hand. 
Garden
When you complete a Garden, you may immediately execute one Patron action for 
each point of Influence you have, including the Influence you get from finishing the 
Garden. 
The new Clients do not provide you with additional actions this turn (unlike Structure 
Functions, Clients do not provide benefits the turn they are gained).

You have no Clients. In the Pool are two Legionaries, a Craftsman and two Patrons. 
You lead as Craftsman, and the other players follow. You complete a Garden as your 
first Structure. You now have five Influence and have room for five Clients. You have 
the one-time option to execute up to five Patron actions. You decide to execute four 
Patron actions. You take a Patron, a Craftsman, and two Legionaries from the Pool as 
Clients. You decide against filling the last spot in your Clientele with another Patron.
Gate
You gain the Functions of your Marble Structures as soon as their Foundations are 
laid. You do not gain the Influence from your Marble Structures until they are comple-
ted.
You own a Temple Foundation with no Materials in it. You finish a Gate. You immedia-
tely gain the Temple’s Function (+4 Hand Size). Your hand refill size is nine cards.
Gate combined with Road
If you add Marble to a Stone Structure then it is immediately considered as either 
Stone or Marble. ‘Upon Completion’ Functions still only trigger once when the building 
is completed.
Insula
Your maximum Clientele is increased by two. This is in addition to the maximum Clien-
tele increase you gain from the Influence you earn for finishing the Insula.
You complete an Insula as your first Structure. You now have three Influence / Victory 
Points and room for five Clients but only room for three cards in your Vault.
Latrine
You may discard an Order card from your hand into the Pool before executing a 
Thinker action.
You own a Latrine and have four Legionary cards in your hand. The player to your 
right leads as Architect. You pass. You discard one card into the Pool and then draw 
two cards from the draw pile to reach your hand refill size of five cards.
Ludus Magna
Each Merchant Client in your Clientele counts as any type of Client. As with all Structu-
res, the Function of a Ludus Magna takes effect immediately.
You have a Craftsman Client and a Merchant Client in your Clientele. You have a 
Ludus Magna Foundation with two Marble Materials in it. You lead as a Craftsman. 
The other players follow. You get two Craftsman actions to execute. With the first 
action, you place a Marble from your hand into the Ludus Magna Foundation, comple-
ting the Structure. Your Merchant Client becomes every Client type including Crafts-
man and grants you an additional Craftsman action this turn. With your two remaining 
Craftsman actions you play an Insula Foundation from your hand and then place a 
Rubble Material into it from your hand, completing the Insula.
Market
Your maximum Vault size is increased by two. This bonus is in addition to the maxi-
mum size increase he gets due to the one Influence he gains from the Market.
You complete a Market as your first Structure. You now have three Influence / Victory 
Points, room enough for three Clients, and room for five cards in your Vault.
Palace
You may lead or follow with any cards of the same Role including Jacks and execute 
one action for each card played.
You own a Palace. You have three Merchants, a Laborer, and a Jack in your hand. You 
have a Merchant Client. You lead the three Merchants and the Jack as a Merchant. 
The other players follow. You execute five Merchant actions and move five Materials 
from your Stockpile into your Vault.
Palisade
You don’t lose cards to players executing Legionary actions. You may still choose to 
give up cards if you wish. If you forget you have a Palisade and give up your cards, 
you cannot get them back.
You own a Palisade and have in your hand a Legionary and a Patron. There are two 
Marble in the Pool. The player to your right leads as Legionary. You follow. He de-
mands Marble, revealing Marble (Patron) in his hand. He takes Marble from the Pool 
and from the player on his right and places it in his Stockpile. He does not get your 
Marble because of your Palisade. You execute your Legionary action and demand 
Marble, showing your Marble (Patron). You get Marble from the Pool, from him, and 
from the player on your left.
Prison
When you complete a Prison, you may immediately choose a completed Structure 
owned by an opponent and place it on top of your Prison. You now gain the benefit 
of the Function of that stolen Structure as if you had just completed it, and the original 
owner loses the benefit of the Function. In exchange, you must give three Influence to 

the original owner of the stolen Structure by giving up the Site card upon which the 
Prison was built. The original owner’s Structures, hand, Clients, and Materials in his 
Vault are not affected even if the configuration is impossible without the Function of 
the stolen Structure. 
You may steal a Structure which was previously stolen by another player’s Prison. You 
may not steal a Structure with the same name as a Structure Foundation you already 
have in play. You may not lay a Structure Foundation with the same name as a Struc-
ture you have stolen with a Prison. Any ‘Upon completion’ effects in the Function of a 
Structure trigger for the new owner when the Structure is stolen. 
You complete a Prison and steal a Tower from an opponent, giving him three Influ-
ence in exchange. You may now use Rubble in any Structure. Your opponent has a 
Marble and a Rubble in a Temple Foundation. These remain, but his Temple can now 
only be finished with one Marble Material.
Road
You may use any Material towards the completion of Stone Structures.
You may use this Function on the same turn as the Road is completed.
You have a Road Foundation with no Material in it and a Catacomb Foundation with 
one Stone Material towards its completion. You have an Architect Client and a Rubble 
and two Wood in your Stockpile. An opponent leads as Architect and you follow 
with an Architect card from your hand. On your turn to execute you get two Architect 
actions – with the first action you move the Rubble card from your Stockpile into the 
Road, completing it and activating its Function. With the second action you move a 
Wood card from your Stockpile into the Catacomb. The Catacomb now needs only 
one more Material of any type to be complete.
School
When you complete a School, you may immediately perform one Thinker action for 
each point of Influence you have, including the Influence you get from finishing the 
School.
You have two cards in hand. You complete a School as your first Structure. You now 
have four Influence. You now have the one-time option to perform the Thinker action 
up to four times. With your first action you refill your hand up to five from the draw 
deck. With your second action you take a Jack. With your third action you take another 
Jack. With your fourth action you draw an Order card from the deck. You end your turn 
with eight cards in hand.
Scriptorium
You may complete any of your Structures by using a Craftsman or Architect action to 
add a Marble Material to it. The Function of a Scriptorium can be used on the turn in 
which it is completed.
You have two Craftsman Clients and a Wood, a Stone, and two Marble in your hand. 
You have a Scriptorium with two Stone in it, a Wall with no Materials in it and a Temp-
le with one Marble in it. You lead as a Craftsman. The other players follow. You get 
three Craftsman actions. With the first action, you complete the Scriptorium with Stone 
from your hand, activating its Function. With your second action, you add a Marble 
to the Wall, completing it. With your third action, you add a second Marble to the 
Temple, completing it.
Senate ( Imperium version only)
At the end of each turn, you may take into your hand any Jacks played by opponents. 
You may choose to take none, some, or all of these Jacks. The Function of a Senate is 
available on the turn in which it is built. If there is more than one Senate in play, their 
owners activate their Functions in the order in which they played in the current turn.
You own a Senate. The player to your left also owns a Senate. You lead as a Patron 
with a Jack. The player to your left follows with a Jack. The player to your right follows 
with a Jack. At the end of the turn, you take the two Jacks played by both your oppo-
nents into your hand. The player to your left takes the Jack you played into his hand.
Sewer
At the end of each turn, you may place Order cards you played to lead or follow into 
your Stockpile.
You own a Sewer. The player to your right leads as Merchant. You follow with a 
Merchant card from your hand. At the end of the turn, his Merchant card goes into the 
Pool as usual, but yours goes into your Stockpile as a Stone.
Shrine
Your hand refill size is increased by two.
You complete a Shrine as your first Structure. Your hand refill size is now seven.
Stairway
Each time you execute an Architect action you may also choose to move an approp-
riate Material into any opponent’s completed Structure in order to immediately grant 
that Structure’s function to all players. Leave the added Material card sticking out at 

an angle from beneath the Structure to indicate it is public. Players that already own 
a Structure of the public Structure’s name do not get a second copy of its Function. 
Any ‘Upon completion’ effects in the Function of the public Structure do not trigger 
again. You may perform the additional action even if you choose not to use your 
Architect action.
You have a Stairway Foundation with two Marble in it. An opponent has an Archway 
and a Shrine. You have one Architect Client. You have a Marble and a Brick in your 
Stockpile. You lead as Architect and the other players follow. You place the Marble 
from your Stockpile into your Stairway, completing it, immediately allowing you an 
additional action which you use to place the Brick from your Stockpile into your op-
ponents Archway, making the Function available to everyone. You do not to use your 
second Architect action but still use the Archway’s Function to move the Brick from the 
Pool into the opponent’s Shrine. Your hand refill size is now seven. 
Statue
You may select any Site when playing a Statue Foundation. The Statue can be com-
pleted with Material matching the Site or the Foundation (Marble). Only a number of 
Material cards matching the Value of the Site are needed to complete the Statue. The 
Influence you gain from completing the Statue likewise is determined by the Value of 
the Site. At the end of the game, if your Statue has been completed, you gain three 
extra Victory Points in addition to the Victory Points you get due to your increase in 
Influence.
You have no cards in your Vault. You complete a Statue on a Brick Site as your first 
Structure, using a Brick and a Marble Material. You now have seven Victory Points 
(four Influence plus three Victory Points from the Statue).
Storeroom
Each Client in your Clientele may act as a Laborer Client at any time instead of itself.
In the Pool are a Stone and four Brick. You have a Storeroom. You have a Laborer, 
Craftsman, and Patron in your Clientele. You lead as Laborer and the other players 
do not follow. You treat your Craftsman and Patron Clients as Laborers and take four 
Laborer actions. You take the Stone and three of the Bricks into your Stockpile.
Temple
Your hand refill size is increased by four.
You complete a Temple as your first Structure, increasing your hand refill size to nine.
Tower
You may use Rubble towards the completion of any Foundation. You may lay a Foun-
dation on an out of town Site by using one Craftsman or Architect action instead of 
the usual two actions needed. The Function of the Tower is available during the turn in 
which it is built.
You have a Tower Foundation with a Concrete Material in it. You have two Architect 
Clients. There are no Stone Sites remaining. You have a Concrete and a Rubble in 
your Stockpile. You lead as an Architect. With your first Architect action you move a 
Concrete card from your Stockpile into the Tower, completing it and activating its Func-
tion. With the second action you start a Sewer on an out of town Stone Site. With the 
third action you move the Rubble card from your Stockpile into the Sewer. The Sewer 
still requires two more Stone or Rubble to be complete.
Tribunal (
Whenever you Think, you may draw an additional Jack after taking the normal Think 
action.
You own a Tribunal. You have 2 cards in hand and Think. You opt to draw 3 cards from 
the deck then 1 Jack. Instead, you could have drawn 2 Jacks.
Villa
If you have a Villa Foundation you complete it whenever you use an Architect action to 
put a Material into the Villa.
You have a Villa Foundation with no Materials in it and no completed Structures. You 
have a Stone in your Stockpile. You lead as an Architect. The other players follow. You 
take Stone from your Stockpile and put it into your Villa, completing it. You gain three 
Influence (reaching five) and now have five Victory Points, room for up to five Clients, 
and room for up to five cards in your Vault.
Vomitorium
You may discard all the cards from your hand before you execute a Thinker action.
You own a Vomitorium and have three Patrons and a Jack in your hand. The player to 
your right leads as an Architect. You pass. You discard all three of your Patron cards 
into the Pool. You discard your Jack to the pile of Jacks beside the Pool. You then 
draw five cards from the draw pile to reach your hand refill size of five.

Wall
You gain a Victory Point at the end of the game for each two Materials in your 
Stockpile, rounded down. This is in addition to the two Victory Points you gain from 
increased Influence due to finishing the Wall.
At the end of the game the only Structures you have built are a Wall and an Insula. 
You have five Materials in your Stockpile. You do not have any cards in your Vault. 
Your Victory Point total is seven - five from Influence plus the two point Wall bonus.
You are not required to lose cards to opponents performing the Legionary action. You 
may still choose to give up cards if you wish. If you forget you have a Wall and give 
up cards, you cannot get them back. This Function of the Wall is the same as that of 
the Palisade, except that an opponent’s Bridge does not circumvent your Wall.
You own a Wall. Your opponent owns a Bridge. You have two Stone and a Brick in 
your hand and a Stone in your Stockpile. The Pool is empty. Your opponent leads 
as Legionary. You follow. He demands Stone. You say ‘Glory to Rome.’ You demand 
Stone. You take the Stone from his hand into your Stockpile.
APPENDIX II – republic vs imperium version
This box contains two versions of Glory to Rome, the Republic and the Imperium 
version. Do not mix cards from both versions, but instead use either one or the other. 
Republic version cards are marked with a 
, Imperium version cards with a . The 
overview on the back side of the ‘Rome Demands’ card shows you in detail which 
cards are used for which version. 
All rules explained so far apply to the Republic version. When playing the Imperium 
version, the following two exceptions apply: 
• Your starting hand consists of only 4 cards but 1 additional Jack 
• You need 3 cards for a petition
BEWARE: The Imperium version is cut-throat in a number of ways that some enjoy 
but others do not. Especially for beginners, the more forgiving and friendly Republic 
version is recommended.
Thank you, kickstarterS!
This edition has been made possible purely through your support via 
kickstarter.com. Thank you all, especially:
Leader Jonathan Saplan
Patrons Tony Boydell (Game Designer & GTR Fan-boy), Robert Schwieger, 
Zebediah Doyle, Marena Tiano (gamegrl2), Joseph Cochran, Mathieu 
Perreault-Dorion, Alex Barbieri, Patrick O‘Brien, Dave Aber, James M. Yager
Merchants (Honorary Patrons) Kevin S. O‘Brien, Kareem Koh, Jason Davis, 
‘Roma locuta est, causa finita est. Vivat Papa!’, Meeples Café (Malaysia), 
jool board game club, Jocke Tang, Johan Herrnsdorf, Kalle Wong, Stoffe
Merchants Alex Grant, Gene Platt, Kakob Frederiksen, Thibaut Palfer-Sollier, 
David Hoffman, Thought Hammer, Lex Luter, kornhill-boardgame.org, 
康怡版圖遊戲及戰棋小組, Walter Kurtz, Andrew Schensted, Jonathan 
Crandall, Patrick Nickel, Kai Schwanke, Simon Schumburg, Toshiyuki 
Hashitani, Sean Fausett, Area 42 Games, RFM, José Luiz Amado, Roy Quek, 
Brian Lewis, Glen Oberhauser, boardgamelifestyle.com, Bart Brunscheen, 
Lyman ‘MrFixx’ Moquin, Starlit Citadel, CoolStuffInc.com, Stuart Dickson
Architects Ivan K. Myers Jr., Joseph M. Louis, Evan Pulgino, Yingying Ruan, 
Caleb & Gabriel Lim, Shreyank D. Purohit, Gerald Squelart, Steve Undy, Carl 
Patten, Lyle Williams, Jonathan Kang, Christopher Montgomery, Joseph 
Cannon, Steve St. Clair, Bjørnar Løseth, Yosuke H.O., Dan Adamski, Simon 
Melkman, Tyler Bindon, William Staab, Michael D. Marsala, Thomas 
Hanselman, Colleen Hile & Paul Lazoen, Yeh Fang, Mike Aubuchon, Randall 
Fischer, Dr. Craig, Cynan de Leon, Caroline Savage, Minh Nguyen, Lynda, 
Michael, Lexi & Jordan Shea, John Kelley, Anthony ‘Manthaknee’ Shemaria
Thank You, playtesters!
Find the right door at MIT late Friday night and you’re likely to find us play-
ing Glory To Rome. If you’re ever in the Boston area we’d love to see you 
there! Thanks to everyone who helped us play-test, especially:
MIT Strategic Games Soc. (web.mit.edu/sgs/www/home.html)
Dangerplanet Games Club (dangerplanetgames.com)
Dan, Dan, Jenn, Fred, John, John, Eric, Erek, Noel, Chris, Kris, Pat, Kevin, 
Anne, Peter, Peter, Jeremy, Dave, Charles, Jenya and Erik Peter

appendix iii – UNOFFICIAL geek expansion
Use any cards from this expansion you like, leaving out the ones you don‘t. 
Each of these cards works equally well with the Republic (
) and the Imperium ( ) 
version.
Domus
As soon as you complete the Domus, you may immediately perform one Patron action. 
If the new Client matches the current role, it may perform its action.
Romulus has 3 Craftsman actions. He uses one to begin a Domus from his hand and a 
second to complete it. He then uses the Domus power to recruit an additional Crafts-
man from the pool. He now has 2 Craftsman actions remaining – one leftover from his 
original 3 and one from the new Client.
Castra
If you lose one or more cards from your hand to enemy legionaries, then you may 
Think once at the end of that round. That Think action happens after all legionaries 
have resolved.
Remus has a Castra in play. He leads Legionary, and both of his neighbors follow. 
After all the Legionary actions are resolved, Remus has lost 1 card to each of his 
neighbors. He then performs a Think action to draw more cards.
Castra Praetoria
As soon as you complete the Castra Praetoria, you may add any or all of the Material 
under it as Clients to your Clientele. Normally, this will mean that two Brick Material 
become two Legionary Clients. 
Once you have the Castra Praetoria in play, it allows you to show incomplete buildings 
when demanding with a Legionary action as well as (or instead of) showing cards 
from hand. You may only show each of your incomplete buildings once during a Legio-
nary round, and those buildings remain where they are.
Romulus has a Scriptorium in play and completes a Castra Praetoria by adding a 
single Marble to it. He immediately adds the Marble Material to his Clientele as a 
Patron Client.
Remus has a completed Castra Praetoria in play, along with an incomplete Scriptorium 
and an incomplete Bath. He has 2 Legionary Clients and leads a Legionary role, thus 
taking 3 Legionary actions. He reveals reveal a Stone and a Rubble from his hand. He 
chooses to reveal the Scriptorium as his third card to demand an additional Stone. The 
cards he revealed from hand remain in his hand, and the Scriptorium remains in play.
Watermill
If you lead or follow Laborer, then you may trigger any or all of your Architect Clients 
at the end of your turn.
Remus has 2 Architect Clients and 1 Laborer Client. He leads as Laborer using a Jack. 
After other players have followed or thought, he executes his 2 Laborer actions. Then 
he performs 2 Architect actions. Then the next player may take Laborer actions.
Solarium
Whenever you complete a building using an Architect action, you may immediately 
take one Material from under that building and move it into your Stockpile. If you com-
plete the Solarium with an Architect action, then you may use its own power to move 
one of the Materials under Solarium to your Stockpile.
Romulus has an incomplete Solarium with no Materials under it. He also has a com-
plete Scriptorium, an incomplete Villa, and 1 Architect Client. He has 1 Stone and 1 
Marble in his Stockpile. Remus, to his right, leads as Architect and Romulus follows 
using a Jack. Romulus uses his first Architect action to complete the Scriptorium using 
the Marble from his Stockpile (Scriptorium‘s power). He moves that Marble back into 
his Stockpile. He then uses his second action to move the Stone from his Stockpile to 
complete the Villa (taking advantage of Villa‘s power) and moves that Stone back into 
his Stockpile.
Aerarium
Whenever you check your Influence (except during scoring at the end of the game), 
you instead use the highest Influence among all players. As soon as you complete the 
Aerarium, you may give its 2-Influence Site to any player (even yourself) to immediately 
trigger an ‘upon completion’ power on one of that player‘s completed buildings.
Remus has a completed Aerarium in play, along with an incomplete School and a 
complete Garden. He completes his Aerarium with a Craftsman action, and immedi-
ately gives the 2 Influence to himself in order to re-trigger the Garden‘s power. After 
using the Garden power, he uses an additional Craftsman action to complete the 
School. He has a total of 9 Influence, but one of his opponents has 12 Influence. So, 
the School‘s power allows him to perform 12 Thinker actions, rather than just 9. If the 
game ended right now, he would only have 9 points (not 12).
Aerarium and Prison
If you use Aerarium to re-trigger a completed Prison, you must give away any set of 
Site cards from your Influence that sum to 3 or more total Influence. You cannot give 
away the 2 Influence you began the game with.

Remus completes a Prison and steals a building from Romulus. Romulus later comple-
tes an Aerarium and gives away its Influence to Remus in order to re-trigger the Prison 
power to steal a building from Hannibal. He gives Hannibal the 3-Influence Site card 
that he received when previously affected by Prison.
Romulus has a School in play (Brick) and 4 total Influence. Romulus completes a 
Prison and gives its 3 Influence to Remus to steal one of Remus‘ buildings. Romulus 
later completes an Aerarium and gives the Influence to himself to re-trigger the Prison. 
He gives away the 2-Influence Site from the Aerarium plus the 2-Influence Site from the 
school to Remus to steal a building.
Bacchanalia
When you complete Bacchanalia, add its 3-Influence Site to your Influence and then 
tally your Influence. Flip over that many cards from the top of the deck. One at a time, 
you may do any subset of the following actions (in any order): 
• add one of the cards to your Stockpile 
• add one of the cards to your Clientele 
• add one of the cards to your Vault 
• start one of the cards as a new building on an in-town Site 
• add one of the cards to a building in progress, as Material 
Afterwards, any remaining revealed cards are added to your hand. 
If you have more Influence than the total number of cards remaining in the deck, then 
the game ends immediately and you do not perform any of the bonus effects from 
Bacchanalia. You may not choose to reveal fewer cards than your Influence total.
For example, Hannibal has 2 Influence and completes a Bacchanalia. He reveals 5 
cards from the deck – Scriptorium, Plebian Council, Sewer, Castra, Road. He starts 
the road as a new building, and then completes it by using the Castra as Material. 
He puts the Scriptorium into his Clientele as a Merchant Client and the Sewer into his 
Vault. He declines to put the Plebian Council into his Stockpile, so it instead goes to 
his hand.
Watch Post
You can use a Craftsman action to tear down one of your complete buildings instead 
of the normal Craftsman effect. When you do so, immediately return the building foun-
dation to your hand and put any Materials from the building into your Stockpile.
Romulus has a completed Watch Post and is about to take 5 Craftsman actions. His 
starts and then completes a Domus from hand using his first two actions. He third 
action is to tear it down with his third action, returning the Domus card to his hand 
and puts the one Wood Material from under it into his Stockpile. His fourth action is to 
begin it (again) as a new building. He then completes it (again) with his fifth action, 
repeating its ‘upon completion’ effect.
Triclinium
If you are leading or following, then whenever one of your Clients acts you may put it 
into your Vault after that action completes.
Remus has a Bath and a Triclinium in play. Romulus leads as Patron, and Remus choo-
ses to think. Remus may trigger his Patron Clients, but he may not activate the Triclini-
um since he did not lead or follow. On Remus‘s next turn, he leads Patron. This time, 
he may activate Triclinium. He uses a Patron Client to recruit a Legionary Client. He 
decides to leave the Patron Client where it is. Because of the bath, the new Legionary 
Client immediately activates. After it resolves, he puts the Legionary Client into his 
Vault. He then uses another Patron action to recruit a Craftsman Client from the pool. 
That Craftsman immediately takes its action by starting a new building. That building 
uses the last in-town Site in the game, so the game ends. Remus does not have the 
option to put the Craftsman into his Vault, since the game has ended.
Plebian Council
Once this building is complete, you immediately win the game if both of its conditions 
are met: 
1	 The total number of Laborer Clients held by all players is strictly higher than the 
	
total number of Legionary Clients held by all players. 
2	 You personally have strictly more Laborer Clients than any other single player.
Romulus completes a Plebian Council. He already has a Storeroom and 5 Legionary 
Clients. Remus has 1 Laborer Client and 1 Legionary Client. Hannibal has 5 Laborer 
Clients. Romulus‘s Legionary Clients count as both Laborers and legionaries (because 
of the storeroom), so there are a total of 11 Laborers and only a total of 6 legionari-
es in play. Romulus has 5 Laborer Clients, but he is tied with Hannibal so nothing 
happens. Later in the same turn, Romulus completes a Domus and recruits a Mer-
chant. That Merchant also counts as a Laborer (thanks to Storeroom), so he now has 6 
Laborers to Hannibal‘s 5. He immediately wins the game.
This is an unofficial expansion suggested by members of the BoardGameGeek com-
munity - we did sort of playtest it, but it‘s not an official part of the game.
Thibaut Palfer-Sollier (tublefou) – 6 cards | Anthony Boydell (tonyboydell) – 4 cards | 
Chris (darthnice) - 3 cards | Simon (earlyworm) – 3 cards | Randall Bart (Barticus88) – 
2 cards | Dany Majard (sevem) – 2 cards | Daniel Hammond (dlhammond) | Hanibal 
Sonderegger (hanibalicious) | KAndrw (KAndrw) | Mont A.(Typhon) | Scott Seifert 
(golden_cow2) | spacedogg (spacedogg) | Tim Seitz (out4blood) | Tiwaz Tyrsfist 
(TiwazTyrsfist) | A special mention to Thibaut, Tony, Chris and Simon – between them 
they influenced EVERY card in the set!
©2011 Cambridge Games Factory