In 1498, a member of Vasco da Gama’s Portuguese expedition reached Calicut, India. At the time, this was a 
remarkable feat, for this marked the first time that a ship had circumnavigated Africa. This led local leaders 
to put Portuguese merchants in charge of the spice trade. Warehouses and manufacturing plants were built, 
ensuring a rapid growth for these businesses. This improved Portugal’s situation, for previously, Arab traders 
had been in charge of the spice trade; Portugal had to settle for less interesting Indian goods. In 1510, the 
governor of Portuguese India, Alfonso de Albuquerque, set sail for Goa with 1000 men. These troops were 
enough to take over this rich city located on an island off the west coast of India. Portugal was thus able to 
secure itself a seaport from which it could control maritime commerce on the west coast of India. After some 
time, Portugal’s control even reached the port of Diu. It did not take long for Portugal to arm the coast with 
many small fortifications.
However, Portugal’s grasp on the region was not very strong. After all, they were but a small group of 
merchants facing fierce competition from powerful Muslim princes who benefited from 
 advantageous commercial agreements with many local leaders.
It was from their position on the Indian west coast that the Portuguese turned their commercial interests 
towards the east coast of India and beyond. Three years later, in 1513, they had already conquered Malacca 
on the Malaysian peninsula. Not only did this give them control over the main sea route towards Maluku, 
also known as the Spice Islands, but it also allowed them to reach numerous commercial agreements with 
the sultans to eventually obtain a monopoly on the clove trade and build warehouses on the various islands. 
In Goa, you personify a Portuguese spice merchant who travels between Portugal and India. Each player 
will attempt to expand and grow his business in fields such as building ships, harvesting spices, collecting 
taxes, mounting expeditions, as well as founding and developing new colonies. Your ultimate goal is to 
have the most victory points at the end of the game.

Game setup
Components
·58 game tiles (29 with back A, 
29 with back B)
·1 flag tile
·18 Colony tiles (5 Quilon, 4 Cochin, 
5 Madras, and 4 Calicut)
·18 Colonist cards (12x1, 6x3) 
·17 Ship cards (12x1, 5x3)
·10 Extra action cards
·45 Ducat cards (15x1, 12x2, 10x5, 8x10)
·30 Expedition cards
·4 personal boards (in the player colors: 
red, blue, green, and yellow)	
·4 Development boards (in the player 
colors: red, blue, green, and yellow)
·20 Auction tokens (numbered 1 to 5 in 
each of the player colors: red, blue, 
green, and yellow)
·20 Progress markers (gray)
·50 spice sacks (called spice)
·8 green Bonanza tiles (with back A/B)
·4 Round and 4 Action indicators	
·1 game board
·1 sheet of stickers
1 - Board and tiles
Place the board in the middle of the 
table. Sort the tiles according to their 
back (A or B). Shuffle the 29 A-tiles 
and reveal 4 tiles that you return 
to the box. Make sure that you do 
not remove more than 2 Plantation 
tiles this way. If necessary, return 
the tile(s) with the others and reveal 
another one (that is not a planta-
tion). Randomly place the remaining 
25 tiles in the play area, face up in a 
5x5 grid. The B-tiles will be used dur-
ing phase B of the game. Leave them 
next to the board for now.
4 - Ducats
Place the ducats on the appropriate 
spaces of the board. This is the bank. 
Players can make change with ducats 
at anytime during the game.
2 - Spices
Place the spice sacks next to the 
board as the spice supply. Use the 
stickers to identify the spice sacks. 
A and B tiles 
discard piles
Variants :
Two variants can be found on page 10 and 11. 
They are recommended for players who 
already know the game. The Quick Starter 
variant makes for a faster early game, while the 
Bonanza variant makes the four corner spaces 
of the board more interesting.
ginger
pepper
cinnamon
nutmeg
clove
10 - Round and Action indicators (optional)
The game includes 4 Round and 4 Action indicators. These are used to keep track of the actions and rounds throughout the 
game. Place the 4 Round indicators next to the board, from A-1 to A-4. Put the Action indicators nearby. The first player will 
use these to keep track of the rounds and actions throughout the game.
11 - Bonanza Variant (page 11)
If you are playing the Bonanza Variant, shuffle the 
8 Bonanza tiles. Draw 4 tiles and place 1, face down, 
under each tile in the 4 corners of the play area.

5 - Ships, Colonists and 
 Extra action cards
Put the Extra action, Colonist, and Ship cards on 
the appropriate spaces of the board. Players can 
make change with the Colonist and the Ship cards 
at any time during the game. For example, if a 
player who only has a 3-Ship card in his hand pays 
2 ships, he will receive a 1-Ship card as change.
3 - Colonies
Sort the Colony tiles according to their name and 
place them, face up, on the appropriate spaces of 
the game board.
Expedition cards 
discard pile
6 - Expedition cards
Shuffle the Expedition cards and put them, face down, 
on the appropriate space of the board. 
7 - Boards and Auction tokens
Each player chooses a color and takes the personal board, 
the Development board and the Auction tokens in this 
color. Put the Auction tokens on your personal board. Each 
player always has one more Auction token than there are 
players. With 4 players, use all 5 tokens; with 3 players, 
use Auction tokens 1 to 4; and with 2 players, use Auction 
tokens 1 to 3. Unused tokens are returned to the box.
8 - Progress markers 
and starting resources
Each player takes 5 Progress markers. They put one 
marker in the first box (top row) of each column on their 
Development board. Each player takes enough cards to 
have a total of 4 ships and 2 colonists.
9 - First player and starting ducats
The youngest player reveals the first Expedition card from the pile, followed by the other players in clockwise order. The first player to 
reveal a card with an elephant is the first player. The revealed Expedition cards are discarded onto the appropriate space of the board. 
The first player takes the flag and 5 ducats. Each other player takes 10 ducats. Players keep their ducats hidden throughout the 
game. The oldest player is in charge of the bank. (In the player setup illustrated above, Red is not the first player.)
Ducats, spice sacks as well as Colonist and Ship cards are not 
limited. If you run out, use pieces of your choice as replacement.

Overview and playing the game: 
A game of Goa is divided in two phases: phase A followed by phase B. Each phase is subsequently divided into 4 rounds. 
After phase A, remove all tiles from the playing area. Then, randomly place 25 B-tiles in the playing area, as with the 
initial setup for phase A (do not forget to remove 4 tiles, ensuring that no more than 2 Plantation tiles are removed this 
way). Players then continue with phase B, after which the game ends. At the end of the game, players proceed with the final 
scoring. The player with the most points is declared the winner.
Each round is played in this order:
The player with the flag is the first player. He places the flag on the board and puts his number 
1 Auction token on the flag. The following player, in clockwise order, puts his number 2 Auction 
token on a tile in the playing area. This tile must be adjacent (either orthogonally or diagonally) 
to the flag. The next player then puts his number 3 Auction token on any empty tile (no tokens 
on it) that is adjacent (again, orthogonally or diagonally) to the number 2 token. Players continue 
this way until everyone has placed 1 Auction token; then, the first player places a second token 
(his highest Auction token) on any empty tile adjacent to the last player’s token. Auction tokens 
cannot be placed one on top of another. Auction tokens form a line that varies in length according 
to the number of players. There is always one more token than there are players (1-2-3-4-5 with 
4 players, 1-2-3-4 with 3 players, and 1-2-3 with 2 players). 
Details on placing the Auction tokens
The first player places the flag (with his number 1 token on it) on any empty 
square in the play area OR on any space on the edge of the play area. Either 
way, the flag must be orthogonally adjacent to a tile (orthogonally adjacent only, 
diagonally adjacent is not allowed when placing the flag). The next player can 
then put his number 2 Auction token on any tile adjacent to the number 1 token 
(here, both diagonally and orthagonally adjacent work).
If a player cannot place his Auction token because there are no available tiles adjacent to the 
last Auction token placed (either orthogonally or diagonally), this player is allowed to place 
his token on any empty tile (no tokens on it) in the play area. The following players will place 
their token adjacent to this new starting point. In this way, it is possible for the line to break 
one or more times if the following players are unable to place their tokens.
	
	
	
	
 
Starting with the flag, each tile with an Auction token on it is now auctioned off in order (1, 2, 3...). The first player to bid is 
always the one next to the auctioneer, in clockwise order. This player must bid at least 1 or pass. On their turn, each subsequent 
player in clockwise order can either pass or increase the bid by at least 1. On the auctioneer’s turn, three situations are possible:
1. No one bid on the tile (the bid is 0). In this case, the auctioneer takes the tile for free.
2. The auctioneer passes. In which case, the player with the high bid pays the auctioneer his bid and takes the 
auctioned tile.
3. The auctioneer buys the tile he is auctioning. In this case, the auctioneer pays the bank an amount equal to one 
less than the high bid and takes the tile he was auctioning. (For example, if the high bid was 5 and the auctioneer 
buys his tile, he would only need to pay 4 ducats to the bank.)
Note: The player who obtains the flag also takes an Extra action card.
To complete the auction, the auctioneer takes his Auction token and puts it back on his personal board.
Then, the next player in clockwise order becomes the auctioneer and auctions the tile under his number 2 token. This auc-
tion is played exactly like the one for the flag: every player in clockwise order bids or passes, and finally, the auctioneer can 
either buy his tile (paying to the bank, at a discount of 1 ducat) or pass (and receiving payment from the high bidder). The 
winner of the auction takes the tile and the auctioneer puts his token back on his board. Players continue auctioning tiles 
this way, following the order of the Auction tokens, until every tile under a token has been auctioned.
 
The various tiles are detailed on page 9.

Each player has 3 actions. Starting with the first player (the one with the flag), each player takes their first action in clock-
wise order. Once everyone has performed their first action, the players take their second action (again, starting with the first 
player). After their second action, players then play their third action, starting again with the first player and proceeding in 
clockwise order.
Tracking the actions : After each of his actions, the first player puts the corresponding white Action indicator (1, 2 or 3, and Extra Actions) on the 
current Round tile. At the end of Round 4, flip the four tiles and proceed with Phase B.
Players can choose among the following actions:
1.	 Progress on their Development board
2.	 Build ships
3.	 Harvest
4.	 Taxes
5.	 Expedition
6.	 Found a colony
1.	 Progress on their Development board
	
When a player chooses the Progress action, he moves one of his Progress markers down on 
his Development board. Moving a marker down one space costs ships and spices. The num-
ber of ships and kinds of spice sacks required are shown between each row on the Develop-
ment board. This is why 1 to 4 spices are depicted between each row. To move a marker down 
one row, you must pay the depicted spices, and you must provide one ship for each spice 
paid this way. Take the required spices from your plantations and/or colonies as well as the 
required number of ships from your play area, and put everything back into the appropriate 
supply. Note: You can only progress once per action (one row in one column).
Example: Red wants to moves his Progress marker down one row in the Taxes column. To move from the 2nd to the 
3rd row, he must pay 1 pepper, 1 nutmeg and 2 ships, which he returns to the supply to move his marker to the 3rd row.
Progressing on your Development board has 2 benefits:
• At the end of the game, you score points according to the position of your Progress markers, more progress means more points.
• Moving your Progress markers down increases the resources you receive or can use with the other actions. Progressing also 
allows you to obtain Extra action and Expedition cards (see page 10).
	
2. Build ships
When a player chooses the Build ships action, he takes the number of ships indicated by his 
Progress marker in the Ships column of his Development board. 
Example: This player’s marker is in the second row of the Ships column. He will get 2 ships from the supply when he 
does the Build ships action.
3. Harvest
When a player chooses the Harvest action, he takes spice sacks from the supply which he places 
on his plantations and colonies. The number of spice sacks a player can take is indicated by his 
Progress marker in the Harvest column of his board. If a player can take more spice sacks than he 
is able to place on his plantations/colonies, he takes what he can and leaves the rest in the supply. 
Example: This player can take 4 spice sacks from the supply. For example:
4. Taxes
When a player chooses the Taxes action, he takes the number of ducats indicated by his Progress 
marker in the Taxes column.
Example: This player takes 6 ducats from the bank.
5. Expedition
The Expedition action allows a player to draw Expedition cards from the supply. Each row of the 
Expedition column shows two numbers. The number on the left is the maximum number of cards a 
player can draw whereas the one on the right is the player’s hand limit, i.e., the maximum number of 
Expedition cards a player can have in his hand at any time when doing the Expedition action.	
Example 1: The player has 1 Expedition card in his hand and his marker is in the 4th row of the Expedition column. 
He draws 2 Expedition cards, which he adds to his hand. Since his hand limit is 4, he keeps all 3 cards because he is 
under his hand limit.
Example 2: The same player takes the Expedition action again (his marker is still in the 4th row). Since drawing 
2 cards would put him over his hand limit of 4 cards, he must immediately play (if he can) or discard one card if he 
wants to be able to draw 2 cards. He could also decide to draw only one card. 

With the Build ships, Harvest, Taxes and Expedition actions, a player simply takes the ships, spice sacks, ducats or 
Expedition cards from the supply and adds them to his hand or personal board. Colonies are founded differently 
(see action 6, below). Furthermore, there are no actions that allow a player to take Colonist cards. Players can obtain 
Colonist cards when they buy Colonists tiles during the tile auctions and, if they are lucky, with Expedition cards.
Why are there colonists in the last column of the Development board? This column indicates how many colonists a player 
automatically recruits with the Found a colony action.
6. Found a colony
When a player chooses the Found a colony action, he attemps to found one colony.
To found a colony, a player needs to recruit a minimum number of colonists: 
6 colonists for Quilon, 8 colonists for Cochin, 10 colonists for Madras, and 12 colonists for Calicut.
Founding a colony...
• You must first name one of the 4 colonies. You cannot choose a colony that you have already 
founded. For example, if you’ve already founded Madras, you cannot choose that colony again.
• After, you must attempt to recruit enough colonists. Colonists are recruited in 3 ways :
1. The colonists that you have on your Development board.
2. The colonists that come to you: reveal 2 Expedition cards and add the colonists depicted in 
the bottom left-hand corner of these 2 cards.
3. If these two methods provide the necessary colonists, you did it. Otherwise, you must pro-
vide the missing colonists with Colonist cards from your hand.
Example: This player wants to found Madras (a). His Development board provides him with 4 colonists (b). 
He draws 2 Expedition cards and gets 1 and 3 colonists (c). This gives him a total of 8 colonists. The colony he 
named, Madras, requires 10 colonists. Since he does not have enough, he plays 2 colonists from his hand to complete 
the requirement (d). He now has the required 10 colonists to found the colony of Madras, which he puts on his board.
When you found a colony, place the Colony tile on the matching space of your personal board. 
There are 5 different tiles for both Quilon and Madras; each tile presents a combination of differ-
ent spices. If you found Quilon or Madras, choose the tile you want among the remaining ones. 
The Cochin and Calicut colonies are all identical.
After founding a colony, fill it with the appropriate spices from the supply. Quilon and Madras 
both give you a choice between 2 spices whereas Cochin and Calicut allow you to choose among 
the 5 kinds of spice sacks.
 
It is possible to fail when attempting to found a colony. This can happen when a player does not 
recruit enough colonists, even with cards from his hand. It is also possible for a player to have 
enough colonists and decide that he does not want to use the required colonists. In both cases, 
the colony is not founded and the player takes 1 Colonist card from the supply instead. The 
player discards the Expedition cards revealed to found the colony.
Reminder: A player who does not succeed in his attempt to found a colony takes 1 Colonist card.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
1 spice:
ginger or 
cinnamon 
1 spice
of your 
choice
2 spices:
pepper and/or 
nutmeg
2 spices of 
your choice

End of a round
Once the players have played their 3 actions, they can, or must, play Extra action cards, depending on the number of Extra 
action cards they have in their hand. Starting with the first player and going in clockwise order, each player can:
1. On his turn, play 1 Extra action card to do one additional action.
2. Pass, meaning that he will not be able to play any more Extra action cards this round.
3. Keep, at most, 1 Extra action card in his hand. Thus, if a player has more than 1 Extra action card, he must play enough of 
his Extra action cards to keep, at most, 1 Extra action card at the end of the round. 
Played Extra action cards are returned to the board.
The player actions end when all players have passed in player order. This ends the round.
End of the game
The game ends after the 4th round of phase B. Players then continue with the final scoring. The player with the most victory 
points at the end of the game wins the game. In case of a tie, the tied player with the most ducats wins.
Final scoring
Victory points (VP) for the position of the Progress markers	
· 1st  row	 0 VP	
· 2nd  row	 1 VP	
· 3rd row	 3 VP	
· 4th row	 6 VP
· 5th row	 10 VP
Victory points for the number of colonies founded during the game
· 1 colony    1 VP	
· 2 colonies 3 VP	
· 3 colonies 6 VP	
· 4 colonies 10 VP
Victory points for Expedition cards (Expedition cards are detailed on page 8)	
· 1 symbol	
· 2 identical symbols	
· 3 identical symbols	
· 4 identical symbols	
10 VP	
· 5 identical symbols	
15 VP	
Victory points for the player with the most ducats
· The player with the most ducats scores 3 victory points. 
In case of a tie for the most ducats, the tied players 
score 3 VP each.
Victory points for single plantations	
 
· per plantation  1 VP
 (3 VP with the Foreman tile)
Victory points for a Duty tile	
 
· When fulfilled 5 VP
Victory points for a Mission tile	
· Per tile, 2 or 3 VP
Scoring example for Red:
Red scores the following :
• Ships	
• Harvest	
10 VP
• Taxes	
• Expedition	
• Found a colony	
	
 = 31 VP
Red founded 2 colonies:	
Red scored the following VP:
• 1 Elephant symbol	
• 2 Palm tree symbols	
	
= 4 VP
Let’s assume that:
Red has the most money:	
Red has 1 single plantation:	
Red does not have a Duty tile:	
0 VP
Red does not have a Mission tile:	
0 VP
Red’s final score is:	
42 VP

The Expedition cards
There are three sections on each Expedition card. The top part of the card is used 
during the game. The bottom left-hand corner shows 1, 2 or 3 colonists, which are used 
when founding a new colony. Finally, the bottom right-hand corner shows an island and 
a symbol that is used for the final scoring. Players can play Expedition cards during the 
game (putting the cards in the discard pile), or they may keep them for the final scoring 
at the end of the game. Keep your hand limit in mind! Of course, players can do both.
There are three ways to obtain Expedition cards:
1. You choose the Expedition action and you draw the number of Expedition cards 
indicated on your Development board.
2. You obtain an Expedition tile that gives you Expedition card(s).
3. You are the first player to move his marker in the second row from the last in 
a column (on your Development board). In this case, you draw 1 Expedition card. 
The same applies when you are the first player to reach the last row in a column; 
you draw 1 Expedition card (see page 10). These bonuses are given for each column.
Using Expedition cards during the game:
You can play 1 Expedition card per action: before, during or after your action (the same applies during extra actions). 
When can Expedition cards be played? First, we must understand that there are two kinds of Expedition cards:
• Expedition cards that give a bonus: You can play these cards during your action. You play them before, during or after your 
chosen action.
• Expedition cards that modify a specific action (with an A in the top corners): You can play these cards when you choose 
the specific action.
As such, Expedition cards have two different uses throughout the game:
Important: Using an Expedition card is not an action! Expedition cards may be discarded at any time. 
If the Expedition draw pile ever runs out, simply shuffle the discard pile to create a new draw pile. 
Expedition cards and the final scoring:
At the end of the game, players score points for the Expedition cards they still have in their hand. The number of points 
players score varies according to the number of identical symbols they have in their hand.
Each of the following 6 symbols appears 5 times on the Expedition cards:
Expedition cards that give a bonus:
Take 2 ships.
Take 2 colonists.
Take 5 ducats.
Take 2 spices of your choice and put them on 
appropriate empty fields of your plantations 
and/or colonies.
Sell up to 4 spices and receive 3 ducats per spice 
sack sold (up to a maximum of 12 ducats).
Pay ducats to move one Progress marker down 
one row in the column of your choice. The 
number of ducats you need to pay is shown on 
the card. With this card, only one marker can 
move down one row!
Expedition cards that modify an action:
Harvest: Instead of spices, you can take a com-
bination of colonists, ships, and/or spices.
Found a colony: Reveal one more Expedition 
card (3 instead of 2) when you found a colony. 
Can be played after having revealed the 2 cards.
Progress: You only pay ships to move your 
Progress marker down on your board. You do 
not pay any spices.
Progress: You only pay spices to move your 
Progress marker down on your board. You do 
not pay any ships.
colonists
(when founding colonies)
action 
(during the game)
symbol 
(for scoring)
	
elephant	
tiger	
fish	
palm tree	
shell	
statue 	

Description of the tiles:
The tiles and their uses (when they can be used and whether they are distributed during phase A or B):
Flag 	
The owner of the flag places it face up in his play area and the winner of the flag auction 
takes an Extra action card. The flag shows who the first player is.
Plantation (A+B)	
When you build a plantation, put it face up in one of the upper spaces of your personal 
board. Plantations have 1 to 3 spice fields. After building a plantation, fill the field(s) with 
the appropriate spice sack(s). If you already own 4 plantations on your personal board, you 
must first discard 1 plantation, and any spice sacks still on it, before placing the 5th one. If 
the discarded plantation only has one spice field (i.e. a single plantation), keep the planta-
tion face down in your play area. These single plantations are worth 1 VP at the end of the 
game, whether they are face up on your personal board or face down in your play area.
Crop rotation	
Works exactly like a single Plantation tile, but you may put the spice of your choice on it. 
At the end of the game, this tile does not score any points (it is worth 0 VP).
Foreman (A)	
At the end of the game, your single Plantation tiles are worth 3 VP instead of 1.
Mission (B)	
Acquired Mission tiles are placed, face down, in your play area. At the end of the game, 
these tiles are worth 2 or 3 victory points.
Swap (B)	
When you buy the Swap tile, place it face up in your play area. During one of your later 
action turns, you may take 1 tile of your choice from the board and put it face up in your 
play area. Put the Swap tile, face up, in the space previously occupied by the tile you just 
took. You may use the tile that you obtained with the Swap tile as soon as you acquire it 
or later in the game. The Swap tile can be auctioned again, as per the normal rules. 
Bonanza variant: If the Swap tile is used in one of the corners, you also take the Bonanza tile.
When a player acquires one of these 7 tiles, he immediately takes the appropriate resources. 
After being used, the tile is discarded on the appropriate space of the board (A or B).
For the following tiles, players must put them face up in their play area. They can use them before, during or after their 
action. The 5 red tiles can be played during a future action, but only once per round. After using it, the player must flip it 
and may no longer use it for the rest of the round. At the beginning of the following round, players flip their red tiles face 
up and can use them again.
Ships (A+B)	
Take 4 ships.
Colonists (A+B)	
Take 4 colonists.
Ships/Colonists 
(A+B)	
	
Favor (B)	
Look through the 8 tiles that were 
returned to the box during setup for 
phases A and B. Take the tile of your 
choice among them. You may use it 
immediately if the tile allows it.
Settlement (A+B)	
Take 1 ship, 1 Extra action card, 
and 1 colonist.
Extra actions (A+B)	 Take 2 Extra action cards.
Expeditions (A+B)	
Draw 2 or 3 Expedition cards, 
even if this puts you over your 
hand limit. 
If you do the Expedition action 
later in the game, you may need to 
discard Expedition cards from your 
hand to reach your hand limit.
Take 3 colonists or 3 ships; 
you may not combine the two.
single 
plantation

The following 5 tiles may only be used once during the game. Once used, the tile is discarded onto the appropriate 
discard pile (A or B). The Duty tile behaves a little differently: it is not discarded after being used.
Ship (A)	
Take 1 ship.
Colonist (A)	
Take 1 colonist.
Ducats (A)	
Take 3 ducats from the bank.
Spice (A)	
Take 1 spice of your choice from 
the supply and put it on an appro-
priate field of your personal board.
You must have a corresponding 
empty field on one of your colonies 
or plantations to take the spice.
Expedition (B)	
Draw 1 Expedition card.
Espionage (B)	
Choose an opponent and do one of these actions, using the position of this player’s 
Progress marker in the appropriate column: Build ships, Harvest, Taxes or 
Found a colony. The Espionage tile cannot be used to obtain Expedition cards.
Extra harvest (B)	
Fill up to 3 of your plantations and/or colonies with the appropriate spices.
Resupply (B)	
Reveal 2 Expedition cards and add the colonists shown on these cards. Then, take 
this sum in spices, colonists or ships. You choose the resource type after seeing the 
result. You can only choose one type of resource. Discard the Expedition cards after.
Vice-king (B)	
Without paying any resources, move your least advanced Progress marker (the one 
closest to the top) down on your Development board. If you have more than one 
marker in this row, move one of these markers, your choice.
Duty (A+B)	
You can score 5 victory points by returning to the supply 6 spice sacks placed on 
your colonies/plantations. Immediately after, flip this tile face down until the final 
scoring. At the end of the game, reveal this tile to add 5 points to your score.
Important: Playing a tile is not an action!
There are 2 special cases that can occur when moving Progress markers:
In any column, the first player to reach the last row or the row before last draws 
1 Expedition card which he adds to his hand, even if this puts him over his hand 
limit. If he does the Expedition action later in the game, he may need to discard 
Expedition cards from his hand to reach his hand limit. Two Expedition cards per 
column can be obtained this way (one for the last row, one for the row before last).
Example: Red was the first to reach the row before last in the Ships column and draws 1 Expedition card. 
Blue is the first to reach the last row in the Harvest column and he draws 1 Expedition card. 
When a player has moved all of his markers in, at least, the 2nd row of his 
Development board, he takes 1 Extra action card. The same thing occurs when all of 
his markers are at least in the 3rd, in the 4th, and in the 5th row.
Example: Red chooses the Progress action and moves his marker down in the Harvest column, resulting 
in his 5 markers being on the 2nd row or lower. He immediately takes an Extra action card.
Variant - Quick starter:
After the initial setup but before starting the game, each player in player order (starting with the first player) moves down 2 of 
his Progress markers into the 2nd row of his Development board OR takes 10 ducats from the bank.

Variant - Bonanza:
As mentioned in the setup: at the beginning of each phase (A and B), shuffle the 8 Bonanza tiles (back illustrated to 
the right) and put one, face down, under each of the 4 tiles located in the corners (see pages 2-3). When a player 
buys the tile above, he also immediately receives the bonus of the Bonanza tile.
Example of a complete round
Yellow receives the flag during the initial setup. The player order is: Yellow, Red, Green 
and Blue. Yellow starts by putting the flag outside the play area, where illustrated, and 
puts her number 1 token on it. Red follows and puts his number 2 token on the tile that is 
diagonally adjacent. As illustrated, Green follows with his number 3 token, Blue with his 4, 
and Yellow ends the placement round with her number 5 Auction token.
Once all Auction tokens have been placed, the flag is auctioned. Red, the player after the auc-
tioneer, says “4”; Green passes and Blue bids 6. Yellow, who has the last word, passes and takes 
the 6 ducats from Blue. Had she decided to keep the flag, she would have had to pay only 5 
ducats (1 ducat less than the highest bid). The other 4 tiles are auctioneed in the same way. Once the auctions are done, 
the players have the following:
Blue bought :
• the flag (and received an 
Extra action card)
• the red Colonist tile 
Yellow bought :
• the Clove plantation, which she 
put on her board with 2 cloves 
on it
Red bought :
• the Colonists tile that he 
immediately traded (and 
discarded) for Colonists cards
Green bought :
• the Ginger plantation, which he 
put on his board with 1 ginger 
on it
1st player action (Blue starts since he has the flag)
Blue: Found a colony
Before his action: Blue owns the red Colonist tile. It allows him to take 1 colonist per round 
(not per action!). He uses it now and does the Found a colony action.
This gives him a total of 5 colonists, less than the 6 required to found Quilon. Blue fails his attempt to found Quilon. 
He keeps his 3 colonists and takes 1 colonist since he failed his attempt to found a colony.
Yellow: Progress in the Found a colony column 
To move her marker down 1 row in the Found a colony column, 
Yellow must pay 1 clove and 1 ship.
Red: Found a colony
Red plays one of his 3-Colonists card, giving him a total of 8 colonists. He succeeds in founding 
Cochin; he places a Cochin tile (all Cochin tiles are identical) on his board. He can then put a spice 
of his choice on Cochin: he decides to put 1 cinnamon on it.
I blue
II yellow
III red
IV green
1. He names Quilon
  (6 colonists required).
2. He has 0 Colonists on his 
Development board.
3. He reveals these 2 Expedition 	
 cards. 
4. He has 3 colonists in his hand.
1. He names Cochin
  (8 colonists required).
2. He has 0 Colonists on his 	
	
 Development board.
3. He reveals these 2 Expedition 	
 cards. 
4. He has 6 colonists in his hand.
from the supply

Green: Expedition
He can draw 1 Expedition card and has a hand limit of 1. 
2nd player action
Blue: Found a colony
He names Quilon again. This time, he is succesful. He chooses the Quilon tile that provides 
pepper or nutmeg and puts 1 nutmeg on it. 
Yellow: Found a colony
She names Quilon and founds it with success. She takes the Quilon tile that gives ginger or 
cinnamon and puts 1 ginger on it.
Red: Expedition
He can draw 1 Expedition card and has a hand limit of 1.
Green: Progress in the Ships column
To move his marker down to the next row, Green must pay 1 ginger and 1 ship.
3rd player action
Blue: Taxes
He takes 4 ducats from the bank.
Yellow: Progress in the Found a colony column
To move her marker down to the next row, Yellow must pay 1 clove, 1 ginger and 2 ships.
Red: Progress in the Harvest column
Red pays 1 cinnamon and 1 ship to progress in this column. He also plays an 
Expedition card. He takes 2 ships from the supply and discards the Expedition card.
Green: Progress in the Ships column
To move his marker down to the next row, Green must pay 1 ginger, 1 cinnamon and 2 ships. He plays an Expedition card 
that allows him to move his marker without paying any spices. He only pays 2 ships to move down his marker.
Players have now finished their 3 actions. Blue has 1 Extra action card, but decides not to use it this turn (each player can 
keep a maximum of 1 Extra action card per round).
The round is over. The next round begins with the placing of the Auction tokens. Since Blue owns the flag, he starts by put-
ting it on the board and placing his  
 on it.
He draws 
this card.
He draws 
this card.
Goa - A New Expedition
© 2012 Z-Man Games Inc.
Designer: Rüdiger Dorn
Illustrations: Oliver Freudenreich 
English version: Z-Man Games
The designer wishes to say “Thank you very 
much!” to Alex Bove who was essential in making 
GOA an even better game. 
Special thanks: Bradley Eng-Kohn 
Questions and comments: 
Z-Man Games 
3250, F.X. Tessier 
Vaudreuil-Dorion, Québec 
J7V 5V5, Canada
csr@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com
Used under permission by Hans im Glück.
MADE IN GERMANY 
=
=