Goblins Drool, Fairies Rule! 
is a card game of rhyme and reason for 1 to 4 players. 
For a long, long time, goblins and fairies have lived in a 
magical world right beneath our noses. If you look hard 
enough, you can find rings of mushrooms, called “fairy 
rings,” which act as doors between their world and ours. 
Today, a gang of mischievous goblins escaped from the fairy 
ring, and it is up to the players to send them back before 
they cause trouble! But an ancient spell of rhymes which 
transforms goblins into fairies and fairies into goblins 
makes this a trickier task than you might think...

The Cards
This game consists of 
20 unique cards. Each 
card has two sides, one 
representing a goblin, 
the other representing 
a fairy. When a card 
is goblin-side-up, it is 
called a “Goblin.” When 
a card is fairy-side-up, it 
is called a “Fairy.” Cards 
with stars around the 
edges are called “Star 
Cards.”
Each side of a card has 
one of 4 Symbols. The Symbols are “Sun,” “Moon,” “Mushroom,” 
and “Frog.” If a card has a Sun Symbol, then the opposite side is 
always a Moon Symbol. If a card has a Mushroom Symbol, then the 
opposite side is always a Frog Symbol. 
The names of the Fairies and Goblins are divided into 5 different 
rhyming groups. All names end in one of these five sounds: 
“oop,” “elly,” “ock,” “our,” or “ew.” No two cards share the same 
combination of Goblin and Fairy rhyming groups. No card has the 
same rhyming group on both sides.

Setting Up The Game
Players sit in a circle and take turns going in clockwise order. All 
players can see each other’s cards on the table at all times, so there is 
no secrecy. However, it is against the rules to look at the face-down 
side of any card once the game has started.
When dealing, all cards in the deck should be goblin-side-up. At 
the beginning of the game, each player is dealt one random Goblin 
Star Card. Any un-dealt Goblin Star Cards are then set aside, out 
of the game. The remaining cards are shuffled, and each player is 
dealt 3 more Goblin Cards from the deck, starting with the player 
to the dealer’s left. 
2-player game set-up

Once each player has 4 Goblins, deal 4 Fairies from the deck to 
the “Fairy Ring,” in the middle of the play space. All remaining 
cards are set aside, out of the game. Then determine which player 
goes first. You can do this by playing rock-paper-scissors, letting the 
youngest player go first, or by seeing who can say “Goblins Drool, 
Fairies Rule” the fastest! 
The goal of the game is to be the first player with NO Goblins 
when your turn is over, or be the first player to have 6 Fairies 
when your turn is over.
Step 1) Add - On your turn, 
you must add 1 of your cards 
to the Fairy Ring. You can add 
any 1 of your cards, either a 
Goblin or a Fairy.
Step 2) Flip - If the names of 
any cards in the Fairy Ring 
rhyme with the name of the 
card you added, flip them over: 
Goblins become Fairies and 
Fairies become Goblins. Read 
the names of the rhyming cards 
out loud as you flip them. The 
added card does not flip over.

Step 3) Take - After the 
rhyming cards have been 
flipped over, you must take 
all cards from the Fairy Ring 
which match the Symbol 
of the card you added. 
(Example: all other Sun 
Symbol cards when you added 
a Sun Symbol card.) You do not 
take back the card you added.
Star Cards are special. When you add a Star Card to the Fairy Ring, 
ALL other cards in the Ring are flipped over, regardless of whether 
or not they rhyme with the added card. Then take all cards with a 
Symbol that matches the card you added, as usual.
After a player has finished taking cards from the Fairy Ring, the 
next player starts their turn, going in clockwise order. The game 
continues until one player achieves either of the two win conditions.

Winning
Win Condition #1: At the end of your turn, if you have NO 
Goblins, you win! It is okay if you have Fairies when your turn is 
over. As long as you have no Goblins, you win! 
Win Condition #2: At the end of your turn, if you have 6 Fairies, 
you win! It does not matter how many Goblins you have when your 
turn is over. As long as you have 6 Fairies, you win! 
Fairy Solitaire
The rules above are for games with 2 to 4 players. Goblins Drool, 
Fairies Rule! can be played by a single player, much like Solitaire. 
The rules for a 1-Player game stay mostly the same, with a few 
changes: 
Set-up
At the beginning of the game, deal yourself one random Goblin Star 
Card. Any un-dealt Goblin Star Cards are then set aside, out of the 
game. Shuffle the remaining cards, and then deal yourself 4 more 
Goblins from the deck. You start with a total of 5 Goblins. 
Next, deal 5 Fairies from the deck to the Fairy Ring in the middle 
of the play space. All remaining cards are set aside, out of the game. 

The game is played the same as before, with the only difference 
being that you are the only player. You must add 1 of your cards to 
the Fairy Ring on each turn, and then flip and take cards as usual. 
You win by having NO Goblins when your turn is over. It is okay 
if you have Fairies when your turn is over. As long as you have no 
Goblins, you win! 
Special Challenge #1: Each time you play, see if you can win in 
fewer turns than the time before. 
Special Challenge #2: You can increase the challenge by adding 
more Fairies and Goblins. Can you win if you start with 6 Goblins 
in front of you and 6 Fairies in the Fairy Ring? How about 7 
Goblins and 7 Fairies? 
Special Challenge #3: Can you achieve a flawless victory? To do 
this, you need to keep playing until you have no Goblins in front of 
you, AND there are no Goblins in the Fairy Ring when your turn is 
over. In other words, every card needs to be flipped over to the Fairy 
side. This is quite tricky… but you can do it! 
If you give up, then the Goblins will run amok and cause you 
endless amounts of mischief… You have been warned! 

 
Are you Team Goblin? If so, we have just the game variant for you! 
A gang of gruesome goblins is sneaking out of the goblin cave and 
tricking fairies into taking their place… Help them succeed in this 
mischievous plot!
Set-up
Setting up is similar to the 
normal version of the game, 
except this time, the Goblins 
are replaced by Fairies and 
the Fairies are replaced by 
Goblins. Each player is dealt 
one random Fairy Star Card. 
Any un-dealt Fairy Star Cards 
are then set aside, out of the 
game. The remaining cards 
are shuffled, and each player 
is dealt 3 more Fairy Cards 
from the deck, starting with 
the player to the dealer’s left. 

Once each player has 4 Fairies, deal 4 Goblins from the deck to 
the “Goblin Cave,” in the middle of the play space. All remaining 
cards are set aside, out of the game. Then determine which player 
goes first. 
The game is played the same as before, but the goals have changed: 
Win Condition #1: At the end of your turn, if you have NO 
Fairies, you win! It is okay if you have Goblins when your turn is 
over. As long as you have no Fairies, you win! 
Win Condition #2: At the end of your turn, if you have 6 Goblins, 
you win! It does not matter how many Fairies you have when your 
turn is over. As long as you have 6 Goblins, you win! 

The Poem
You can add more rhyming to your game by reciting this poem each 
time a player takes their turn. It can be sung to the same melody as 
Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star, and the Alphabet Song. This poem 
was composed for us by Richard Sandberg. Thank you, Richard! 
Fairy, Fairy, place your card
In the center to discard
Flip the cards that match your rhyme
Look for frogs, ’shrooms, moons and shines
Take the cards whose symbols match
Win the game when Goblins catch!

Rhyming Guide
Here are all of the Goblin and Fairy names, split up into the 5 
rhyming groups (fairies in italics):
Dusty Dour, Nappy Hour, Needs a Shower, Cringe and Cower, 
Petal Flower, Sweet and Sour, Dewdrop Shower, Pixie Power
Chicken Pock, Cobweb Shock, Cuckoo Clock, Old Man Sock, 
Candy Rock, Poppy Smock, Hickory Dock, Goldie Lock
Gobble T. Goop, Dastardly Droop, Salamander Snoop, Goblin Soup, 
Lemon Loop, Rainbow Swoop, Hula Hoop, Vanilla Scoop
Earwax Stew, Spidery Glue, Full Moon Moo, O.P. You, 
Baby Blue, Willow Sue, Morning Dew, Penny Clue
Nervous Nelly, Vermin Vermicelli, He So Smelly, Big Big Belly, 
Kokopelli, Snowflake Shelly, Lucky O’Kelly, P.B. and Jelly

Winning Tips
Hold on to your Star Cards until you are in a pinch. They will flip all of the 
other cards in the Fairy Ring over, regardless of the rhymes. When none of 
your other cards gives you a good outcome, or you seem to be in a stalemate 
with your opponents, tossing in a Star Card can change the game for you. 
If you cannot get rid of any of your Goblins without taking even more 
Goblins, consider getting rid of a Fairy instead. It will not get you closer to 
winning, but it might keep you from getting even further away. Adding a new 
Fairy to the Ring might also help slow your opponents down if it turns into a 
Goblin that one of them has to take. 
Always pay attention to how many Goblins each of the other players has. 
When a player has only 1 or 2 Goblins left, they are close to winning. You can 
try to slow that player down by adding to the Ring a Goblin which shares a 
symbol with one of his Goblins. If it doesn’t get flipped or taken by another 
player, they will have to take it. 
When flipped, a Fairy of one symbol will turn into a Goblin of the 
opposite symbol. For example, a Moon Fairy will become a Sun Goblin. 
Remember this to set your opponents up with tricky traps! 
If you find yourself in a loop where you are getting rid of and then taking 
back the same Goblins on every other turn, it might be time to take drastic 
measures! Adding a new Fairy or Goblin to the Ring which forces you to 
take back even MORE Goblins could be the solution. This can set you back 
a turn or two, but changing up the Ring might just set you on the right path 
to eventually winning. 

Credits
Game Design, Art Direction
David Luis Sanhueza
Illustrations
Mike Maihack
Graphic Design
Cody Jones
David Luis Sanhueza
Springboard Team
Cherilyn Joy Lee Kirkman
David MacKenzie
Dan Yarrington
Rules Editing
Todd and Corrie Walden
Playtesters
Nader Akoury
Ross Cangelosi
Steve Copeland
John Forte
Allison Hjelstrom
Greg Hjelstrom
Kevin Hjelstrom
Primo Hunter
Cherilyn Joy Lee Kirkman
David Kondor
David MacKenzie
John Mallory
Randy Martinez
Teresa Morrow
Renato Orellano
Brant Polkowski
Matt Reynolds
Anthony Schneiderman
Kurtis Smith
Carol Sullivan
Paul Sullivan
Chris Walla
Kevin Wu
Dan Yarrington
Sara Yarrington

Special Thanks to our Kickstarter backers, and everyone else 
who helped make this game possible!
Spyke Alexander
Mike Amerson
Johan Andersson
Anonymous
Octavio Arango
Carolyn Atkins
Doug Bass
Mark Bisignano
David J Blair
Richard Bliss
Jeff Brown
Matthew Brown
Cabbit
D.J. Cole
Nick Coombe
Liam Coutts
Geoffrey Davis
Theresa DeMouy
Ahmad Y. Doleh
Garth Elliott
Marcus Ervin
Dan Famini
David Flores
Jason Fordham
Frances
Serge Gagnon
Geoffjhs
Kevin Gillette
Marilyn Glancy
Christin Green
Greypilgrim
Gordon Griffith
Pankaj Gupta
Neal Haggard
Thomas Happ
Peter Harper
Thomas Harvey
Haris Hawkes
Kamilah Hawkes
Mark Hawkes
Jeff Hildebrand
Mister Hope
Simon Hunt
Nancy Hutchins
Paco Garcia Jaen
Natalie Jaran
J. Herschel Jeffrey
Harry Jeffrey
Jessey
Valerie Kono
Curt Kremer
Debbie Krous
Jana Lass
Nate Lawrence
Laycelin
Joseph Louis

Luffy
James M
Muneera Mak
Matias
Tony Mattheis
Michael Mifsud
Ronny Mo
Steven Moy
Munchezuma
Cathy & Gregg Nagelhout
Mark Nunnikhoven
Drea O’Dare
Karl Okerholm
John Olson
Geoff Paulsen
Debra Peacock
Andreas Pelikan
Mary Pendergast
Evan Rattner
Robertone
Kenneth Rosenberg
Margaret St. John
Richard Sandberg
Hugo Sanhueza
Pete Schuermann & Nancy Theken
Paul Scott
Carrie Seidman
Aleena Justine Smith
Bob Sullivan
Carol and Paul Sullivan
Charles Sumner
Claes Svensson
Cow Tan
Lukas The Dead
John M. Trivilino
Dante Tumminello
Logan O. Uber
uwEE
Daniel Vance
Floris van der Zwan
Jeannie Voirin-Gerde
Matthew Wasiak
Simon Waugh
Sandra Wheeler
Sara Yarrington
Skyler York
 
 

Did you ever wonder where 
all the stories happened?
A cooperative storytelling 
adventure game for the entire family!

All contents of this game are copyright 2012 by GAME-O-GAMI. 
Goblins Drool, Fairies Rule! is a trademark of GAME-O-GAMI.