WHO WILL BE CROWNED
KING OF THE MONSTERS?
2 TO 4 PLAYERS AGES 10+ 45 MINUTES
	 CONTENTS: 
	 4	KAIJU MINIATURES
	 1	MINIATURE STAND
	120	KAIJU CARDS
	 13	GAME BOARD TILES
	 1	DAMAGE TRACK MAT
	 4	KAIJU MATS
	 6 EVENT CARDS
	 13	BUILDING MINIATURES
	 74	TOKENS
	 1	OXYGEN DESTROYER MARKER
	 5	TRACKING CUBES
	
	INSTRUCTIONS

V
Objective
You are Earth’s most fearsome Kaiju—Godzilla, Mothra, King Ghidorah, and Megalon—
battling for dominance as the most terrifying monster in Japan. Destroy buildings and 
vehicles to gain Energy, then use that Energy to unleash devastating attacks on your 
opponents. Throw trains, tanks, battleships, and other Kaiju, as you fight for the King of 
Monsters crown. Once humans deploy the Oxygen Destroyer, it is time to leave Tokyo, 
and the most dominant Kaiju claims victory! 
1.
Place the center hex tile in the middle of the play 
area. Randomly select and arrange tiles into the 
shape determined by the number of players, as 
shown below. 
Place the Damage Track within reach of all players. Place the Oxygen Destroyer 
marker on the Start space. 
3.
Choose two Event cards and place 
them in the spots above and below 
the Damage Track. If this is your 
first game, we suggest using 
the Armored Assault and Rush 
Hour Event cards. Follow the 
Setup instructions for both Events. 
Board Setup
2-PLAYER
3-PLAYER
4-PLAYER
END
START
Event Card 1
Event Card 2
King ghidorah
GODZILLA
4P
3P
2P
4.
Center 
Hex Tile
Radar Dish
Power Plant
Military Bunker
Tower
Small
Building
2.
Insert the correct tiles into the bases of each Large Building. Place all 
buildings on their letter-designated spots on the board.
Oxygen Destroyer Marker
Damage Track
Setup
目
的
目的
セ
セットアップ
P3
P4
P3

t
p
Player Setup
YOU’RE READY TO PLAY THE GAME! 
2.
Place your Kaiju Mat in front of you and set an Energy Tracking Cube on the “2” 
space of your Energy Track. 
3.
Shuffle your Kaiju deck, then place it face down to the left of your Kaiju Mat. Draw 
a hand of five cards. Randomly choose a player to take the King of Monsters 
token. They will play first this Round. 
1.
Each player chooses a Kaiju and places 
its corresponding figure on the starting 
location closest to them. If this is 
your first game, we suggest using 
Godzilla and Megalon. If the starting 
location contains a Large Building, rotate 
that tile so the Large Building is no longer 
in the starting location before placing your 
Kaiju.
Kaiju Deck
Kaiju Mat
King of Monsters
Token
セ
Energy Tracking
Cube

h
a
e
The game is played in Rounds. A Round consists of four phases: 
1. Oxygen Destroyer PHase
(Ignore on the first round) 
Move the Oxygen Destroyer marker 1 circle space on the Damage Track. 
2. ActioN Phase
Starting with the player holding King of Monsters token, players take turns performing 
one of three actions:
•	Play a Kaiju card from your hand
•	Play your Kaiju’s Discard Action 
•	Pass
Play continues with players taking additional turns until all players pass consecutively (this 
means that all players pass in a row). A player who passed on a previous turn may play 
a card on subsequent turns, extending the Action Phase.
3. REFRESH PHASE
Once all players have passed consecutively, players may discard any number 
of cards from their hands and then draw cards until they have 5 cards in hand. 
Players activate any end-of-turn effects they have in play (Kaiju abilities, Enhancements, 
building effects—all explained later).
4. EVENT PHASE
After the Refresh Phase, activate and resolve the Event cards in their assigned order, 
moving or placing Vehicles if necessary. For more information on how Events work, see 
page 11. Also, check to see if the game has ended (see page 12). 
The humans have devised a weapon to drive the Kaiju away by removing oxygen from 
the air. Once the Oxygen Destroyer has been moved into place, the game ends. 
Skip this Phase on the first Round. Starting on Round 2, advance the Oxygen Destroyer 
marker one circle space along the Damage Track.
 
Phases
Oxygen Destroyer Phase
段階
酸素破壊段階

RANGE 3 
Destroy a building in a space 
between you and the target. 
MEGA HEAT RAY
Once played, resolve 
all the card’s effects 
before placing it in 
your discard pile. 
 
Play then proceeds 
to the player on your 
left. 
CARD
TITLE
CARD
EFFECTS
ENERGY
COST
DOMINANCE 
VALUE
 MOVE
 ATTACK
 DEFEND
To play a card, pay its Energy cost, shown in the top-right corner of the card. Reduce 
your Energy by moving your Energy Tracking Cube down your Energy Track by the cost 
amount. If you don’t have the Energy to pay for the card, you cannot play it. 
Action Phase
MOVE When you play a card with this symbol, you may move up to the 
number of spaces shown. You may move through, and end your movement in, 
spaces with water, Vehicles, Small Buildings, or other Kaiju. You may move 
through a space with a Large Building, but you cannot end your move there. 
ATTACK This shows the card’s Attack Value. For more information on how 
this works, see Attacking Other Kaiju (page 06).
DEFEND Play Defense cards to block damage when an opponent attacks you. The number 
indicates how much damage you prevent. For more information on how this works, see 
Attacking Other Kaiju (page 06).
MOMENTUM A card with Momentum allows you to play an additional card or take your Kaiju’s 
Discard Action after its use. You may play more than one Momentum card on your turn until you decide 
to stop or take an action without Momentum. 
Range A card with Range can be used to attack a Kaiju in a space up to the distance specified. 
Range attacks only deal damage. Vehicles or buildings cannot be targeted by a Range attack. 
ENHANCEMENT Cards with Enhancement are placed in the play area below your Kaiju Mat 
when played. Enhancement benefits remain in effect until the card is removed.
Many cards include symbols or attributes indicating their power: 
Playing Kaiju Cards

VEHICLES 
When you throw a Vehicle, choose a space within the maximum distance for the 
Vehicle to land and destroy both the thrown Vehicle as well as any ONE Small 
or Large Building, or Vehicle in the space where it lands, removing them from the 
board. Or, if another Kaiju is within the maximum distance, you may throw the 
Vehicle into the Kaiju, dealing 1 damage to them and destroying the thrown Vehicle. 
If there are multiple Kaiju in the space, choose which one takes damage.
When playing a Kaiju card to attack you must be in the same space as your 
intended target—either another Kaiju or a Vehicle—unless that card has a Range 
listed. After choosing a target, decide whether to throw or damage it. Vehicles 
can only be thrown. Ranged attacks only deal damage and cannot target 
Vehicles or buildings. 
THROWING 
When using attacks to throw, the Attack Value shown on the card is the maximum 
distance you can throw the target. Targets must be thrown in any straight line 
from the position of your Kaiju. 
 
Godzilla can use Tail Slide with Attack Value of 3 to throw a Tank into the 
Tower 2 spaces away, or at Mothra, at the maximum distance of 3 spaces 
away. 
Read more about destroying buildings and Vehicles on pages 08 and 
09.
TAIL SLIDE
using A kaiju card to attack

KAIJU 
When throwing another Kaiju, maximum distance is determined by the card’s 
Attack Value. Choose a direction and move the target Kaiju in a straight line up 
to the maximum distance, or until it hits a Large Building or another Kaiju. Destroy 
up to ONE Small Building or Vehicle in each space through which a Kaiju is 
thrown. 
 
If the thrown Kaiju ends in a space with a Large Building, that building must be 
destroyed, even if there is a Vehicle in that space. If a Kaiju lands in a space with 
another Kaiju, BOTH receive 1 damage. If there are multiple Kaiju in that space, 
choose one as the target. 
King Ghidorah uses Go For the Throat to throw 
Megalon 4 spaces into Godzilla (destroying a Tank 
and a Small Building along the way). Megalon and 
Godzilla both receive 1 damage.
GO FOR THE THROAT
BARRAGE: Look at target’s 
hand. You may take a card 
from it as an additional Trophy. 

When you destroy a building or Vehicle, you gain the benefits shown on the underside of 
that building or Vehicle. Most buildings are worth at least 2 Energy. All Vehicles are worth 1 
Energy, except for Trains and UFOs, which are both worth 3.
 
LARGE BUILDINGS (below) earn you greater rewards when destroyed and 
are removed from play for the rest of the game. 
TOWER Gain 4 Energy.
POWER PLANT Gain 2 Energy. Draw a card.
MILITARY BUNKER Gain 2 Energy. Place a card 
from your discard pile on top of your deck. 
RADAR DISH Gain 2 Energy. Look at the top card of any 
opponent’s Kaiju deck, and then place it back on top.
SMALL BUILDINGS (left) that get destroyed go on 
the Damage Track. If there aren’t any Small Buildings currently 
on the Damage Track, place one in the space marked for your 
number of players (2P, 3P or, 4P). Otherwise, place it in the next 
available square space, progressing toward the Oxygen Destroyer 
marker.
VEHICLES AND 
LIGHTNING GENERATORS 
Destroying buildings and vehicles
Small
Buildings
Train
UFO
Lightning
Generator
Battleship
Jet
Tank
(left) are moved off the board when destroyed. 
Destroyed Vehicles and Lightning Generators do not 
go on the Damage Track. They may re-enter play 
during the Event Phase.

When you choose to use a card’s Attack Value for damage, or an effect allows you to 
damage a Kaiju, your opponent can choose to defend with a card in their hand: 
•	 If your Attack Value is equal to or lower than the Defense Value, your attack 
is blocked, and nothing further happens. 
•	 If your Attack Value is greater than the opposing Defense Value, you win the 
chance to take a Trophy! Subtract the Defense Value (if any) from the Attack Value 
on the Power Card and take an equal number of cards from the target’s Kaiju deck. 
•	 Look at the Dominance Value on the card or cards drawn. Take the 
card with the highest Dominance Value and place it face down in your 
Trophy pile. If multiple cards have the highest Value, only ONE is taken. 
•	 Place the remaining cards in the opponent’s discard pile. 
•	 You may never take a card with 0 Dominance Value as a Trophy. If ALL 
the cards you draw after an attack have 0 Dominance, your opponent is 
considered to have withstood the attack! 
Megalon plays Undermine to move into Godzilla’s space, and applies the 
card’s Attack Value of 4 to damage. 
Godzilla plays Scaled Hide, which has a Defense Value of 2. Megalon 
deals 2 total damage to Godzilla, so he gets to take 2 cards from the top 
of Godzilla’s Kaiju deck and keep one as a Trophy.
Dealing Damage
•	 If the attack card lists other effects in addition to dealing damage, resolve 
those effects after dealing damage. 
•	 If the defense card lists other effects in addition to reducing damage, 
resolve those effects after all effects on the attack card have been resolved.
UNDERMINE 
Place yourself in the same 
space as another Kaiju within 3 
spaces of your current position 
before resolving this attack.
Gain 1 Energy for each 
point of damage this card 
doesn’t block. 
SCALED HIDE

Discard Action
Passing
Cards with Range allow you to target a Kaiju up to a certain number of spaces 
away, in a straight line. 
Ranged attacks are made for damage ONLY, and cannot be used against buildings 
or Vehicles, nor can they be used to throw Vehicles or Kaiju. 
Any Small or Large Buildings, Vehicles, or other Kaiju between you and your target 
do not obstruct Ranged attacks. 
Each Kaiju has two Discard Actions shown on its Kaiju Mat. To take one of these 
actions, discard a Kaiju card, ignoring its stated effects, and apply one of the 
effects described on your Kaiju Mat. 
Instead of playing a Kaiju card or taking a Discard Action, you may choose to 
pass. Even if you pass on one turn, you may play cards or take a Discard Action 
on your next turn. However, if all players pass consecutively, you must move to the 
Refresh Phase. 
Ranged Attacks
King of Monsters
The King of Monsters token denotes the first player to act in each 
Round, but it also provides two additional benefits. If you have the 
token at the start of a Round, you will draw 1 extra Kaiju card (not 
including the first hand drawn at the start of the game). Additionally, 
if you have the token at the end of the game, you gain 2 extra 
Whenever you damage the current King of Monsters, whether or not 
you gain a Trophy, you always take the King of Monsters token.
+1
Godzilla has Mega Heat Ray 
(Range 3). He can attack King 
Ghidorah or Megalon, but not 
Mothra, she is not in a straight 
line away from him. 

Activate both Event cards in their assigned order. The first Event card must be completely 
resolved before the second Event card is activated.
 
An Event may require Vehicles to move on the board, according to their position and/
or proximity to the nearest Kaiju. If there are ever two or more Kaiju equidistant from a 
Vehicle, the Vehicle will move toward the King of Monsters—whether or not the King of 
Monsters is involved in the tie. If after the nearest Kaiju is determined, a Vehicle could 
finish its move in more than one possible space, the player who is last in the current turn 
order decides which space the Vehicle moves to. 
Event cards may require players to place new Vehicles on the board. Consult each Event 
card for specific instructions. 
Refresh Phase
Event Phase
Players may choose to discard or keep any number of cards remaining in their 
hands, before drawing up to a hand of five cards. The player with the King of 
Monsters token draws up to a hand of six cards. If you reach the bottom of your 
Kaiju deck, shuffle your discard pile and place it face-down as your new deck. 
 
Activate any special Kaiju abilities or Enhancements. 
休憩段階
イベント段階
The Armored Assault Event card 
resolves. Each Tank moves toward the 
nearest Kaiju, deducting 1 Energy 
from any Kaiju in the same or an 
adjacent space. 
Because the Tank in space A is equally 
distant from Godzilla and King 
Ghidorah, it must move toward the 
King of Monsters (Megalon)—either to 
space B or C. The player to the right 
of the King of Monsters in the turn 
order—Godzilla—decides to move it to 
space C. The Tank deducts 1 Energy 
from Megalon. 
+1
Move each Tank 1 space 
Players lose 1 Energy for 
each Tank occupying the 
same, or an adjacent space 
as their Kaiju.
If the number of Tanks on 
the board is equal to or 
fewer than the number 
of players, each player 
places a Tank on the 
装
甲
攻

D 
 
F 
 
G 
If the game ends, each player counts the total Dominance Value on the cards in 
their Trophy pile. The player who holds the King of Monsters token gains 2 extra 
The player with the highest total Dominance Value wins the game. If there is a tie, 
the player with the most Energy wins. If multiple players are tied for Energy, the tied 
player holding the King of Monsters token wins. If a tied player does not have the 
King of Monsters token, the tied player to the LEFT of the player with the King of 
Monsters token wins.
ゲ
ム
終
了
す
る
Check to see if the game has ended 
If the Oxygen Destroyer marker and the Small Building tokens have passed each other on 
the Damage Track, the game ends. If the Oxygen Destroyer marker has not passed—or is 
only ADJACENT to—a Small Building token, a new Round begins, and play proceeds to 
the Oxygen Destroyer Phase.
During this 3-player game the Damage Track is checked at the end of the Event 
Phase. The Oxygen Destroyer marker has not passed a Small Building token, so the 
game continues. The marker will pass three Small Building tokens at the start of the 
next Round, but the game won’t conclude until the end of that Round’s Event Phase. 
END
START
Event Card 1
Event Card 2
King ghidorah
GODZILLA
4P
3P
2P
End of Game
ゲーム終了する

RUSH HOUR
The Trains move between Rounds, so you can plan 
around them. Trains are worth 3 Energy, making them 
excellent Vehicles to throw at buildings and Kaiju.
The player who is last in the 
turn order moves each Train 
1 space along its track. If 
fewer than 2 Trains remain 
on the board, each player 
places a Train on a track 
space that does not contain 
a Train, following setup 
ゲームのルール
There may never be multiple 
Trains on the same track. 
Trains are worth 3 Energy 
when destroyed.
Rules
ラ
シ
ュ
ワ
V 
Move each Jet 3 spaces in 
the direction it is facing and 
then reverse its direction. If 1 
or more Jets enter a Kaiju’s 
space, that player discards 
an Enhancement card from 
play and loses 1 Energy. If 1 
or fewer Jets remain on the 
board, each player except 
the King of Monsters places 
a Jet on a space that does 
not contain a Jet. 
空
爆
Move each Tank 1 space 
Players lose 1 Energy for 
each Tank occupying the 
same, or an adjacent space 
as their Kaiju.
If the number of Tanks on 
the board is equal to or 
fewer than the number 
of players, each player 
places a Tank on the 
装
甲
攻
Move each UFO 2 spaces 
If a UFO starts in or enters 
a space with a Kaiju, that 
player discards a card 
from their hand. If no 
UFOs remain on the board 
in a 2-player game, or 
if 1 or fewer remain on 
the board in a 3-4 player 
game, place 1 UFO on the 
center hex tile. 
X
星
人
の
侵
略
Each Battleship attacks all 
Kaiju within 2 spaces of it 
in a straight line. If a Kaiju 
is attacked by 1 or more 
Battleships, that player 
returns the top Trophy 
in their Trophy pile to its 
owner, who places it on 
their discard pile. If the 
number of Battleships on 
the board is fewer than the 
number of players, each 
player except the King of 
Monsters places a Battleship 
on a water space.
艦
砲
射
If fewer than 2 Lightning 
Generators remain on the 
board, each player except 
the King of Monsters places 
a Lightning Generator on the 
ゲームのルール
When you throw, move, or 
place a Kaiju into a Lightning 
Generator space, deal 1 
unblockable damage to that 
Kaiju, destroy the Lightning 
Generator, and gain 2 Energy.
Rules
稲
妻
ジ
ェ
ネ
レ
タ
イ
ベ
ン
AIR STRIKES
The direction the Jets are facing is consequential and 
losing an Enhancement can make your path to victory 
difficult. Stay out of the line of fire when you have 
Enhancements in play.
ARMORED ASSAULT
Multiple Tanks can hit you simultaneously, so be aware 
of their location at the end of a Round. You can throw 
opponents into the midst of a group of Tanks at the end 
of a Round to hinder them for the next Round.
XILiEN INVASION
The UFO causes you to discard after you’ve drawn your 
new hand for the Round. It’s difficult to stay clear of the 
UFOs, so it’s best to destroy them as quickly as you can. 
Discarding a card can put you at a disadvantage in the 
next Round.
NAVAL BOMBARDMENT
Battleships are one of the easier Vehicles to avoid, but 
one of the most dangerous as well. Losing the top card 
of your Trophy pile can put you behind in a game. Stay 
out of their line of fire.
LIGHTNING GENERATORS 
Although Lightning Generators only deal 1 damage 
when you throw a Kaiju into them, that damage is 
unblockable so try to avoid them. Opponents can move, 
throw, or place a Kaiju in their space to set them off, so 
Mothra can use them against other Kaiju. 

K 
When you play cards with 
the , move the marker up the 
Head Meter on King Ghidorah’s 
Kaiju Mat. When the Meter 
has reached 3 and you use an 
ability with Barrage, execute 
the extra Barrage ability, which 
is otherwise ignored. Barrage 
effects are extremely powerful, 
allowing you to take multiple 
Trophy cards.
In addition, the higher the 
Head Meter, the better your 
Unstoppable and Soar cards 
become, granting you superior 
defenses and the ability to sift 
through your deck for what you 
need to achieve victory. 
 
Godzilla’s special ability 
allows you to throw Kaiju and 
Vehicles 1 extra space. This 
means any time you take the 
Discard Action to throw a Kaiju 
1 space, you would throw that 
Kaiju 2 spaces. It also applies 
anytime you use an attack card 
to throw. Utilize this ability 
to throw farther and reach 
Large Buildings to gain special 
abilities. 
One of Godzilla’s key cards is 
Power Up, an Enhancement that 
increases the effectiveness of 
Ranged attacks. Use Power Up to deal massive damage AND take multiple Trophies 
with Godzilla’s strongest attacks. In addition, you can retrieve Power Up from your 
discard pile with Dorsal Plates and Victory Pose. Getting as much use out of Powered-
Up Heat Rays and Mega Heat Rays is your key to victory.
Godzilla
King Ghidorah
怪
獣
キングギドラ
ゴジラ

Mothra is a unique Kaiju—she 
is a friend of the humans. Her 
special ability ensures you 
aren’t targeted by Jets, Tanks, 
or Battleships, but you also can’t 
destroy buildings or Vehicles for 
Energy. However, you can gain 
the benefits of a Large or Small 
Building adjacent to you each 
Round. 
Mothra’s Discard Action is also 
different from the other Kaiju, 
allowing you to move up to 2 
spaces in a straight line instead 
of just 1 space, or gain 1 Energy.
When playing Mothra, it is important to utilize your Energy-gaining cards to their full 
potential, and to disrupt your opponents’ plans as much as possible. All of Mothra’s 
attacks are Ranged, so even though you can’t throw your opponents, you can force them 
to play more cards to reach you with their melee attacks.
Megalon is an incredibly 
mobile Kaiju and specializes 
in combo attacks. Some of 
your attack cards, like Cyclone 
Attack and Piercing Drill, have 
Momentum, allowing you to 
link together several small 
attacks at once. 
Megalon’s special ability 
allows you to put a card from 
the Discard pile on top of 
your deck before you draw a 
new hand each Round. This 
extremely versatile ability 
allows you to complete combo 
attacks more consistently, or 
to make sure you have a key 
defense or movement card you 
need for your next turn. 
K 
怪
獣
モスラ
メガロ

1. Oxygen Destroyer PHase
(Ignore on the first round) 
Move the Oxygen Destroyer marker 1 circle space on the Damage Track. 
2. ActioN Phase
Starting with the player holding the King of Monsters token, players take turns performing 
one of three actions:
•	Play a Kaiju card from your hand
•	Play your Kaiju’s Discard Action 
•	Pass
Play continues with players taking additional turns until all players pass consecutively 
(this means that all players pass in a row). A player who passed on a previous turn may 
play a card on subsequent turns, extending the Action Phase.
3. REFRESH PHASE
Once all players have passed consecutively, players may discard any number 
of cards from their hands and then draw cards until they have 5 cards in hand. 
Players activate any end-of-turn effects they have in play (Kaiju abilities, Enhancements, 
building effects).
4. EVENT PHASE
After the Refresh Phase, activate and resolve the Event cards in their assigned order, 
moving and placing Vehicles if necessary. For more information on how Events work, see 
page 11. Also, check to see if the game has ended (see page 12). 
 
End of Game Scoring
If the game ends, each player counts the total Dominance Value on the cards in 
their Trophy pile. The player who holds the King of Monsters token gains 2 extra 
The player with the highest total Dominance Value wins the game. If there is a tie, 
the player with the most Energy wins. If multiple players are tied for Energy, the 
tied player holding the King of Monsters token wins. If a tied player does not have 
the King of Monster token, the tied player to the LEFT of the player with King of 
Monsters token wins.
© 2020 FUNKO, LLC. ALL TRADEMARKS AND REGISTERED 
TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF FUNKO, LLC OR ARE THE 
PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
TM & © TOHO CO., LTD.
G
Y
/OriginalFunko
@OriginalFunko
@OriginalFunko
ゲ
ム
レ
イ
要
約
This game was designed by the 
city-stomping squad at Prospero Hall. 
For more about our games go to 
prosperohall.com
WOe01