2-6 PLAYERS
AGES 8+
30-60 MIN.
Introduction 
Hidden deep within the solid rock interior of 
an unexplored mountain lie enormous gold nug-
gets, which have remained untouched for thou-
sands of years.
You and a group of adventurous friends have 
decided to hike the treacherous mountain. Upon 
discovering stones adorned with sparkling gold 
particles, you all return with pickaxes, lanterns, 
and other equipment to excavate an underground 
mine. While digging, your pickaxe strikes one of 
the shiny, shimmery nuggets! As soon as you rec-
ognize what you have discovered, you realize you 
could soon be rich beyond your wildest dreams 
— that is, if your friends (or enemies) don’t get to 
the gold first.
To seal your prosperous fate, you are deter-
mined to gather enough gold nuggets to purchase 
the mine and stake a claim — then all of the gold 
it contains will be yours. But watch out for the 
other miners: they’re just as greedy as you, and 
they’ll stop at nothing to beat you to it!
Set Up
1. Place the Mine Entrance tile face up in 
the center of the table.
2. Shuffle the remaining tiles thoroughly.
3. Stack 20 tiles face down for use during the 
Development Mining phase.
4. Place the remaining tiles face down, in one 
or more stacks, so all players can access them 
easily.
5. Assign a Miner to each player.
6. Deal 3 Gold Challenge tokens and 3 
Bat Challenge tokens to each player.
7. Each player rolls the dice to determine the 
starting player—the highest number wins.
1 Mine Entrance tile
 
28 Gold Chamber tiles
67 Mine Tunnel tiles 
 4 Cavern tiles
(Mine Entrance back)
4 with Secret 
Passage entrance
11 with Secret 
Passage entrance
Tile back
Game Summary
I. Development Mining
Place 20 tiles to begin mine
II. Production Mining
Repeat for each turn:
A. Miner Movement
may do one of the following:
1. Place tile & move 1
2. Roll & move
3. Traverse Secret Passage
B. Miner Action
may do either/both of the 
following:
1. Collect Gold Nugget
2. Initiate Challenge
28 Gold Nuggets
6 Miners
Contents
Objects of the Game
1. Get rich! 
Collect the required number of Gold Nuggets 
and exit the mine before any other player. Gold 
Nuggets are found in Gold Chambers, which are 
discovered by excavating mine tunnels.
2. Be greedy! 
Prevent other players from getting rich instead.
Required number of Gold Nuggets:
• 2 Players: 10 Gold Nuggets
• 3 to 4 Players: 7 Gold Nuggets
• 5 to 6 Players: 5 Gold Nuggets
(front) 
(example)
(example)
100 Game Tiles, consisting of:
2 dice
 18 Gold Challenge 
tokens
18 Bat Challenge 
tokens
(Red, Green, 
Blue, Yellow, 
Black,White)
Game Play
The game consists of two phases: Development Mining and Produc-
tion Mining. 
During Development Mining, the initial tunnels of the mine are exca-
vated. Beginning with the starting player and proceeding in a clock-
wise direction, players take turns playing the 20 Development Mining 
tiles (one tile per player, per turn). Tiles must be played following nor-
mal tile-placement rules (see Placing Tiles). If a tile cannot be played, 
it is placed randomly within any stack and another tile is drawn.
Once all 20 of the Development Mining tiles have been played, the 
Miners are ready to descend into the mine to search for gold during 
the Production Mining phase. 
At the beginning of the Production Mining phase, each player places 
his Miner at the base of the ladder on the Mine Entrance tile, takes a 
turn (see Turns), and play continues in a clockwise direction until one 
of the Miners becomes filthy rich (see Winning the Game).

• Allow passage on at least one tunnel if placed adja-
cent to the Mine Entrance tile (i.e. the tunnel(s) may not 
be completely blocked or create a loop). Otherwise, the 
Mine Entrance tile has no connection restrictions.
Turns 
A turn consists of two 
phases: 
1. Miner Movement
Perform one of the 
following:
• Excavate & move 
one space
Draw a tile, place it, and 
optionally move along a 
tunnel for a distance of one 
complete tile (see Placing 
Tiles and Movement)
• Roll & move
Roll a single die and move 
along a tunnel up to the 
number of tiles indicated by 
the die (see Movement)—a 
player may choose to stop 
movement early, if desired
• Traverse a 
Secret Passage
Roll both dice and go 
through a Secret Passage 
on the current tile and 
path if doubles or a sum 
of seven is rolled, or move 
along a tunnel up to the 
lower number rolled (see 
Secret Passages)
• Opt out of tile place-
ment and/or movement 
altogether
2. Miner Action
After Miner Movement is 
complete, perform either 
or both of the following, if 
desired: 
• collect a Gold 
Nugget 
(see Collecting Gold) 
• initiate a 
Challenge 
(see Challenges)
Placing Tiles
• Be placed on a grid formation adjacent to one or 
more existing tiles—not corner to corner or straddling 
two tiles.
To constitute a valid tile placement, each tile must:
Excavation in the mine is performed by placing tiles that represent mine tunnels. To place a tile, a 
player must draw it from a stack and place it appropriately. 
If a tile can be played, it must be played, even if the player is not satisfied with the available options. 
If a tile cannot be played, it is placed randomly within any tile stack and another tile is drawn. 
If a Gold Chamber tile is played, a Gold Nugget must 
immediately be placed on the center of the tile. 
Cavern tiles have no connection 
restrictions, but allow full passage to any 
connecting tunnels.
When placing a tile, 
other players may 
see it and provide 
suggestions.
• Be placed so that all tunnels on adjacent tiles con-
nect exactly—sides that do not contain tunnels (unex-
cavated mine walls) may also be placed adjacent to one 
another. 

Secret Passages
A series of natural, water-
carved crevices exist within 
the mine area and serve as Se-
cret Passages that link multiple tunnels 
together. Entrances to this series of pas-
sages exist on 15 tiles and are represent-
ed by a large crevice and accompanying 
puddle of water. The Secret Passages are 
usually flooded, but occasionally the wa-
ter level drops low enough for a Miner to 
traverse them safely.
If a Miner is at a Secret Passage entrance 
at the beginning of his turn, he may at-
tempt to traverse the Secret Passage as 
part of the Miner Movement phase. 
Before doing so, he must roll both 
dice to determine if safe passage is 
possible. 
If two of any number (doubles) or a 
sum of seven is rolled, the water level 
is low enough and the Miner may 
move to any other existing Secret 
Passage entrance. 
Otherwise, the Miner may choose to 
move up to the lower number rolled 
in the usual manner (see Movement) 
or refrain from movement altogether.
Movement
To move a Miner, a player must select a tun-
nel to follow from the current position on the 
current tile, move the Miner along the same 
tunnel to an adjacent tile, and continue for the 
number of moves allowed for the turn. 
• Miners cannot jump to a disconnected 
tunnel, even if it lies on the same tile. 
• Miners may pass each other at any time.
• Miners may pass through the Mine Entrance 
tile at any time (exiting the mine only occurs at 
the end of the game—see Winning the Game). 
• Miners may also pass through Cavern tiles, 
assuming that there exists an adjacent path on 
which to continue movement.
Collecting Gold
Gold Nuggets are placed 
on the center of all Gold Cham-
ber tiles immediately after they are 
played (see Placing Tiles). 
In order to collect a Gold Nugget 
from a Gold Chamber tile, a player’s 
Miner must be on the Gold Chamber 
tile at the end of the Miner Move-
ment phase of a turn (see Turns). A 
player can then collect the Gold Nug-
get by removing it from the tile and 
placing it in front of himself. 
Once a Gold Nugget is collected from 
a Gold Chamber tile, no more Gold 
Nuggets may be placed on the tile, 
except as the result of a Gold Chal-
lenge (see Challenges). 
Challenges
Since the prospect of collecting enormous Gold Nuggets is so 
appealing to the Miners, they are willing to go to any length 
to fulfill their greed. Challenges offer a means of seeking re-
venge or gaining advantage over other Miners. 
One way a Miner can impair other Miners’ progress and en-
hance his own is by attempting to steal a Gold Nugget for 
himself; this is called a Gold Challenge. Another way is 
to attempt to direct bats toward another Miner in order to 
chase him away from his current position; this is called a Bat 
Challenge.
Each player begins the game with three Gold 
Challenge tokens and three Bat Challenge to-
kens, which may be used during the Miner Ac-
tion phase of any turn (see Turns). Only one 
Challenge may be issued per turn. Both types of 
Challenges involve two players. 
A Challenge consists of the following steps:
• The current player (the Challenger) declares which of the 
other players is being challenged (the Defender)
• The Challenger discards either a Gold Challenge token or 
a Bat Challenge token, depending on the type of Challenge 
being issued
• The Challenger and Defender each retrieve a die and roll 
three times in a row
• Whichever player rolls a higher number for at least two of 
the dice rolls wins the Challenge—ties go to the Challenger
• The outcome of the dice roll determines what happens 
next (see Gold Challenges and Bat Challenges).
Gold Challenges
A Miner issuing a Gold Challenge (the Challenger) attempts 
to forcefully steal gold from another Miner (the Defender). In 
doing so, the Defender fights back and a conflict occurs. The 
winner of the Challenge manages to dislodge a Gold Nug-
get from the other Miner’s possession. In the dark mine, the 
Challenger has the advantage due to the element of surprise.
The winner of the Challenge may take one Gold Nugget from 
the loser and place it on any Gold Chamber tile that does not 
contain a Gold Nugget and is not currently occupied by the 
participants of the Challenge. The Gold Nugget can then be 
retrieved by any Miner, in the usual manner (see Collecting 
Gold). If the winner is the Challenger, he gains a head start by 
rolling a single die once more and moving up to the number 
rolled (see Movement). He may also collect a Gold Nugget at 
that time, if reached.
Invalid movement
valid movement

Challenge 
reference
Gold Challenge
Bat Challenge
Purpose
Steal a Gold Nugget from another player
Force another player to move
Requirements
At least 1 Gold Nugget & 1 Gold 
Challenge token
At least 1 Bat Challenge token
Initiated From
Same tile and path as Defender
Anywhere in Mine
Initiated During
Miner Action phase of turn (after Miner Movement is complete)
Initiated By
Declaring target (the Defender) and discarding a token
Resolved By
Rolling 3 times in a row; higher roll 2 out of 3 times wins (ties go to Challenger)
Winner Action
Take 1 Gold Nugget from loser and 
place on any empty Gold Chamber not 
occupied by Challenge participants
Roll 1 die and move loser up to 
number rolled in any direction, 
following normal movement rules
Challenger Bonus
(if Winner)
Roll 1 die, move up to number rolled, 
retrieve Gold Nugget (if reached)
No bonus
Mud Puddles
Twelve Mine Tunnel tiles include 
a Mud Puddle at one or more loca-
tions on the tile. Mud Puddles hinder 
movement by causing Miners to get stuck in 
the mud until their next turn. During the Miner 
Movement phase of a turn or during movement 
resulting from losing a Bat Challenge, a Miner 
must stop movement immediately when he 
encounters a Mud Puddle on his current path. 
On his next turn, the Miner may proceed with 
movement as usual.
Five Tile Strategy
2 to 4 players; requires Mud Puddles rule
During game setup, deal one Cavern tile, two 
random Mine Tunnels with a Secret Passage, and 
two random Mine Tunnels with Mud Puddles to 
each player. These tiles are laid face up in front 
of each player. A player may choose to play one 
of these tiles during any turn instead of drawing 
from a stack.
Alliances
4 or 6 players
Before the game begins, players divide into 
teams of two, with each pair forming an alliance.  
Players on the same team sit opposite each 
other.  Each team works together to collect the 
required number of Gold Nuggets between the 
two team members (4 players: 12 Gold Nuggets 
per team; 6 players: 8 Gold Nuggets per team).  
Once the required number of Gold Nuggets 
is collected, both players must reach the Mine 
Entrance together to make their escape and win 
the game.  Partners on the same tile and path 
may hand off Gold Nuggets to each other dur-
ing the Miner Action phase of a turn, which 
may be important for Gold Challenges. Team 
members may not Challenge each other.
Game Design Chris James
Graphic Design & Illustration Andy Kurzen 
Special thanks to our key playtesters: Melanie James, R. Swann, S. Swann, Andy Kurzen, Dave Omer, Amber Omer, Benjamin 
Howe, Shalla DeSpain, AJ DeSpain, Emily James, Rodney James, Ben Pearson, Ashlee Pearson, Marlene Wellard, Alan Wellard, Melvin Tays, 
Charri Tays, M. Daniel Tays, Floyd James, Mary James, Randon Walters, Callie Walters, Kevin Johnston, Sean Tunell, Erin Tunell, Trevor James
If a Gold Nugget has been 
placed on a Gold Cham-
ber tile that is occupied by 
another Miner, the Gold 
Nugget must still be re-
trieved during the normal 
course of that player’s turn 
(see Turns and Collecting 
Gold).
Gold Challenges can only 
occur when the Challenger 
and the Defender current-
ly occupy the same path on 
the same tile. Also, a Gold 
Challenge may only be is-
sued if a Miner has at least 
one Gold Nugget in his 
possession.
Bat Challenges
Bats are abundant throughout the mine and are 
lurking in the shadows on every tile. A Miner is-
suing a Bat Challenge (the Challenger) attempts to 
disturb a group of bats and direct them towards 
another Miner (the Defender). The flustered bats 
will always attack either the Defender, towards 
whom they were directed, or the Challenger, who 
disturbed their sleep. The loser of the Challenge is 
the recipient of the attack, and must retreat from 
his current position in the mine. The Challenger 
has the advantage because he expects a possible at-
tack and can take action to ward off the bats.
The winner of the Challenge rolls one die and 
moves the loser’s Miner up to the number rolled 
in any direction, following normal movement rules 
(see Movement).
Since bats have access to every tunnel, including 
those that are only accessible via Secret Passages, 
Bat Challenges can be issued against any Miner 
from anywhere in the mine.
Stratus Games LLC
7014 E. Golf Links Rd. #265 
Tucson, AZ 85730 
info@StratusGames.com 
TM
Winning the Game
Once a Miner collects at least the required num-
ber of Gold Nuggets, he must make his way back 
out of the mine so he can purchase the mine and 
stake a claim. A Miner exits the mine by reach-
ing the ladder on the Mine Entrance tile. The first 
player to exit the mine with at least the required 
number of Gold Nuggets wins the game!
Optional Rules
Once you have learned the basics of the game, 
you may want to explore new variations. Several 
rule variations have been included in this section. 
Or, create your own unique rules to your heart’s 
content. The possibilities are endless!
If you have a creative idea that you would like to 
share with other Gold Mine™ fans, or you’re ready 
to explore new variations, be sure to visit 
www.StratusGames.com. 
© 2010 Stratus Games LLC - All Rights Reserved