For 2 players
 8 years old - Adult
 10 to 30 minutes
 http://gounki.org
Starting position
White victory
After they put a double circle beyond
the opposite side of the board
for a simple piece
Gounki
A game by Christophe Malavasi
Objective
Using strategy and careful thinking, be the first to get through your opponent’s
lines and place one of your pieces beyond the other side of the board.
Material
 An 8x8 board
 16 white pieces (8 circles and 8 squares)
 16 black pieces (8 circles and 8 squares)
Preparation
Each player chooses one colour and places his pieces as illustrated: squares on
dark spaces and circles on light ones.
The player with the colour white begins.
Game description
During each turn, players choose a piece and play it according to the rules
specific to that piece.
He has the choice to move or to deploy that piece (i.e. separate it into several
pieces if it was a compound piece). During that move, he may have the
opportunity to stack his own pieces or to capture one of his opponent's pieces.
In any case :
 you cannot move backward, toward your own side,
 you cannot jump over other pieces.
The winner is the first player who places a piece beyond the opposite side of the
board.
Movements
Simple pieces
Simple circles move one step diagonally, always forward.
Simple squares move one step on the side or forward.
Stacks
During a movement, the player may choose to stack his pieces to form a
compound piece. For instance:
 Stacking a square with a square gives a double square ;
 Stacking a double circle with a square gives the compound
piece circle-circle-square.
Pieces are composed of a maximum of 3 simple pieces.
The stacking order of squares and circles has no impact on the compound piece’s
movement possibilities.
 These three compound pieces are equivalent.

of double pieces
of triple pieces
Movements of compound pieces
Important: during a movement, a compound piece is always taken as a whole,
like one "big piece". To separate that piece again into 2 or 3 simple pieces, you
must deploy it (see below).
A double circle moves like a simple circle in 1 or 2 steps.
A double square moves like a simple square in 1 or 2 steps.
A square-circle moves either like a square, or like a circle.
A triple circle moves like a simple circle in 1, 2 or 3 steps.
A triple square moves like a simple square in 1, 2 or 3 steps.
A square-square-circle moves either as a double square, or as a simple circle.
A circle-circle-square moves either as a double circle, or as a simple square.
During a movement, a compound piece cannot :
 be split into several pieces,
 change direction,
 jump over other pieces.
Deployments
To split a compound piece into 2 or 3 simple pieces, you must deploy it.
To do so, the player takes the compound piece in his hand. He places his hand above a neighbouring space, drops a
simple piece on that space, then continues this way until all the simple pieces of the compound piece have been
placed (or deployed).
Some possible deployments before…
… and after : deployment results.
Rules concerning the order of deployments and the choice of destination spaces are the following:
 If a compound piece includes both circles and squares, you deploy all circles first, or all squares first. One
cannot, for instance, deploy in the order 1-circle, 2-square, 3-circle again.
 The destination space of a simple piece is always chosen according to its normal possible movements:
forward diagonal for a circle, on the side or forward for a square.
 If one deploys 2 or 3 circles, he has to deploy them in the same direction: one cannot slalom during
deployments. In the same idea, 2 or 3 squares are always deployed in the same direction.

Example 1: Regardless of the real order in which the simple pieces of a circle-circle-square are stacked, the player
may deploy:
 Either a square (one step forward or on the side), then two circles (two steps one after the other in the same
diagonal)
 Or two circles (two steps one after the other in the same diagonal), then one square (one step forward or on
the side).
Remember: keep in mind that these 3 compound pieces are equivalent: 
Figures below illustrate the different ways to deploy a circle-circle-square, starting with the circles (left figure), or
with the square (right figure).
Possible deployments for a circle-circle-square,
starting with the circles.
Possible deployments for a circle-circle-square,
starting with the square.
Example 2: the figures below illustrate the different ways to deploy a square-square-circle,
starting with the squares (left figure), or with the circles (right figure).
Possible deployments of a square-square-circle
starting with the squares
Possible deployments of a square-square-circle
starting with the circle
The deployment of a square-circle works like the deployment of a square-square-circle with only one square (or
like the deployment of a circle-circle-square with only one circle).
Triple square and triple circle deployments follow the same principle.
Important: During a deployment, one cannot:
 Deploy over a space occupied by an opponent’s piece,
 Stop the deployment before the piece has been completely deployed.
Note: a winning deployment ends the instant a piece has been placed beyond the opposite side of the board.

Deploy over your own pieces
You can deploy a compound piece over your own pieces, as long as no piece made up of more than 3 simple pieces
has been formed after the deployment is complete.
Examples of deployments over other pieces, before…
… and after: result of deployments.
Rebounds
Composed pieces can bounce against the sides of the
game board during their movements or deployments.
This is not considered as a change of direction.
Rebound principle: if a piece cannot continue its
movement because it meets the side of the board, it
bounces like a tennis ball against a wall.
Some possible movements with rebounds
Some possible deployments with rebounds, before…
… and after: deployment results.
Captures
When a player moves one of his pieces onto a space which is already occupied by an opponent’s piece (simple or
compound), that opponent’s piece is captured and removed from the game.
You can capture a piece during a movement, but not during a deployment.
If a player captures all his opponent’s pieces, he wins the game, but this rarely happens. Be careful, "gluttony is a
deadly sin!"

Some strategic advice for beginners
By Matthieu Walraet
Before you start to read about strategy, my advice is for you to play a few games to make sure you really
understand the rules. That’s already done? Great, let's begin!
The fundamental aspect in Gounki is that it is a race. The goal is to be the first to place a piece beyond the other
side of the board. Most of the time, you've got to choose position over capture, and play moves that make you
quicker than your opponent.
In the beginning
A good way to start a game is to build triple-mixed-pieces: circle-circle-square or square-square-circle. These
are the most powerful pieces of the game because of their speed and flexibility.
The circle-circle-square is a very offensive piece. It can go sideways or forward, and can change its target side in
only one move, thus exploiting possible weaknesses without giving the opponent time to organize his defence.
The square-square-circle is mostly defensive in the beginning of the game: when deployed, it can turn into a wall
of mutually-defended pieces. On the other hand, because it includes two squares, it can mostly lead straight attacks,
which is not very efficient in the beginning when most of the defensive pieces are still in the game.
Triple circles and triple squares are the quickest pieces but they have a lower number of possible movements or
deployments, which makes them easier to block for the opponent. I wouldn’t advise building them at the beginning
of a game.
In this example, white has taken a very good start.
He has built two circle-circle-squares and has moved
one of them forward to control the center. Furthermore,
he kept a solid square structure for his defence.
Black has chosen to build two different triple pieces,
which gives him more possibilities. Unfortunately his
defence has big holes! He will have to keep his
square-square-circle backward to fill in the gaps.
Capture vs. Speed
Because Gounki is a race, don’t waste time in capturing pieces if this does not help you cross the board before your
opponent does!
Here, it’s white turn to play.
He could capture the circle in h5 with g5, then g4
with g2 (with a rebound),
But he prefers deploying g2 in g3, f4 and e5.
Thus, he builds in e5 a double circle that threatens c7
and g7 at the same time.
After that, he can win in 3 moves.

Another example: white could make an exchange by
capturing d5 with e5. Black would then recapture
with b7.
Those pieces are identical, aren’t they?
Actually, that exchange would be bad for white,
because the action takes place in the second half of the
board. White needs 4 moves to build a circle-circle-
square and put it in d5, while 3 moves do the job for
black.
If he makes that exchange, white loses one move,
which is the advantage he gained when playing first at
the beginning of the game.
Rather, he should move c1 onto c2.
Now, if black makes the exchange, this is good for
white.
End of the game: some skillful moves
Fork
Beware of a circle-circle-square
quietly sleeping on a black space
in its 3rd line…
Threatened by the black triple circle, white has
moved is circle-circle-square from e4 to d4.
Oh no! Now black can win the game thanks to a
fork.
Indeed, black moves d6 to f4.
Doing so, he threatens both positions d2 and h2.
If white defends on one side, black takes the other
one.
Most of the time, one should not make forks just to
capture opponent pieces (again, capturing is not the
main issue), but to win the game or to gain decisive
advantage.
The circle-circle-square is very good for making
forks, especially when placed on a black space. Indeed,
the starting position defends white spaces very well,
but not black spaces at all.
Winning deployment
Black to play:
he can win with his piece in b4.
Solution: The black bouncing deployment (b4 * a3,
b2, a2) creates a fork for the occupation of the a1
position.

Sacrifice
Often, one triple piece is not enough to go though the
opponent’s defence.
Here, the black defence is just solid enough to prevent
white from going through with only one circle-circle-
square. White has thus called for some reinforcement.
Be careful, this is a little complicated!
White to play. He has to be quick because the black
piece in g4 can win in two moves with the g4 * f3, e2,
e1 deployment. The only solution for white is to be
quicker.
The sacrifice works for white: he captures b7 with b5,
even if black can recapture with b8. Then white moves
his second triple piece from a5 to a6 and wins on the
next turn by deploying a6 on the a7 and b8 cases. He
wins when he goes off of the board in the c column
when he deploys a6 * a7, b8, out.
Handicap
The player with the least experience takes white, which is an advantage.
Nevertheless, if the black player wins too often, you can decide to give him a handicap to balance your games.
For instance:
 Black has to reach the other side of the board only in the C, D, E or F columns, or
 White can play two or three times in a row during the first turn.
Your turn to play!
Written and illustrated by
Christophe Malavasi
Romain Vassallo
 Emilie Vitte
Matthieu Walraet
All rights reserved