Grand AUSTRIA Hotel
A game by Simone Luciani and Virginio Gigli
At the beginning of the 20th century, Vienna was one of the major centers of Europe. Artists, politicians, nobles, 
citizens, and tourists populated the streets of the city, and the emperor ruled them all.
You are in the thick of the Viennese Modern Age, trying your luck as a hotelier. For that, you must expand your little 
hotel and prepare new rooms. In the meantime, your guests require culinary excellence. Make sure each and every 
guest receives a proper dish and drink. You may need to hire additional staff.
Despite all that, do not forget to render homage to the emperor, or you will fall into disgrace pretty soon. Face the 
challenge and turn your little hostel into the Grand Austria Hotel!
I kiss your hand, madam. Good day, milord. My name is Leopold and, if you 
allow me, I will be your guide in our Grand Hotel.
Components
4 Hotel boards 
(two-sided)
Game board
Action board
9 Turn Order 
tiles
Additional actions
+1 die on the chosen action 
(only once per turn)
move up to 3 dishes and drinks 
from your kitchen onto your guest cards
place a wooden disk on a Politics card, 
if you meet the condition
use a Staff card with a 
once-per-round effect
move 1 guest with completed order 
to a free room
48 Staff cards
56 Guest cards
12 Politics cards
4 Overview cards
84 Room tiles in 3 colors 
120 Dishes and 
drinks (30 wooden 
cubes in each of 4 
colors: black=coffee, 
white=cake, red=wine, 	
light brown=strudel)
12 Emperor tiles
14 Dice
24 Wooden disks (in 
the 4 player colors: 
orange, light blue, 
purple, gray)
1 Round marker
1 Dustbin
4 Victory Point 
markers
front side: free room
back side: occupied

In order to make your hotel successful, you will 
have to attract many guests and meet their needs 
and wishes. Once you fulfill a guest’s requests, 
they will stay at your hotel and bring you rewards. 
The guests are quite picky, though, when it comes 
to taking a room: Nobles (blue cards) only take 
blue rooms, Artists (yellow cards) only take yellow 
rooms, and Citizens (red cards) only take red 
rooms. Only Tourists (green cards) are pleased 
with any room they can get.
Making a guest happy is not only worth Victory 
Points, but it also provides an additional action as 
a reward.
Staff Cards
Staff can be useful for your hotel. Each helper has 
a different effect: Some only provide a one-time 
benefit on hire, while others have permanent 
effects. Some provide additional Victory Points at 
the end of the game. Also, there are staff that you 
can only use once per round.
Staff can be quite helpful, but 
a skillful hotelier can manage 
on their own, if he is really 
clever.
Hotel Board
Your Hotel board features a little Café which can host 3 guests. Your Kitchen is where you prepare the dishes they 
order, and your Office is where you play your actions and maintain your money and staff.
The Hotel boards are printed on both sides. One side features the same hotel so that all players have the same 
conditions, but the other sides differ from each other and are more difficult 
to play.
Allow me: Please start with the front side. 
It will make life easier for yourself.
At the start of the game, 3 guest rooms are already available for use. 
Overall, you can use up to 20 rooms in your hotel.
The rooms are organized in 10 groups. Using all the rooms in a group 
provides valuable benefits.
Sure, who would not like a 
bonus? A good hotelier, though, 
only prepares as many rooms as 
is needed.
Name
Victory Points
Order
Reward
Category 
(table cloth 
color)
Name
Cost
Time
Effect
Guests are always the most important! 
This is how we roll in our hotel. If 
the guest is happy, they take a room. 
This is the only way to use our hotel 
to capacity and gain additional actions.
Guest Cards
Kitchen
Café
group

Setup
 Place the game board in the middle of the table. It features spaces for the Guest cards, 
the Emperor track, 3 spaces for the Emperor tiles, and 3 spaces for the Politics cards.
 Place the action board with the 6 Action spaces next to it.
 Place the dustbin and the victory point markers next to it.
 Sort the 4 different dishes and drinks and place them next to the game board.
 Shuffle the Guest cards and place them face down in a stack next to the board. 
Draw 5 cards from the top of the stack and place one each face up on the 5 Guest spaces.
Emperor Track
There are 13 spaces on the Emperor track, each of which features a Victory Point value below it. You cannot move 
past space 13. Instead, you receive 1 Victory Point for each space you would move beyond space 13.
Victory Point Track
For each Victory Point you receive, advance your wooden disk on the Victory Point track by 1 space. Each space 
can have more than one player’s wooden disk. If you move past space 75, take a Victory Point marker with 75 
facing up. If you move past space 75 again, turn the Victory Point marker to the other side. At the end of the game, 
add the number on your Victory Point marker to your position on the Victory Point track.

 Shuffle the Staff cards and place them face down in a stack next to the game board.
On your first play, you should only use the recommended sets (see page 11). 
Sort out the appropriate cards, before you shuffle the rest.
 Choose a Politics card from each of the A, B and C cards, and place them face up on the 
designated spaces of the game board.
 Choose one Emperor tile from each of the A, B, and C tiles, and place them face up on the 
designated spaces of the game board.
 Sort the Room tiles by color and place them in stacks next to the game board.
 Place the following number of dice on the first Action space: 10 dice in a 2-player game, 12 dice in 
a 3-player game, and 14 dice in a 4-player game. Put the remaining dice back into the game box.
 Take the Turn Order tiles with the correct number of players on their backs, and place the rest back 
into the game box.
 Take an Overview card, a Hotel board, and the 6 wooden disks in a color of your choice. 
Put the remaining Overview cards, Hotel boards, and wooden disks back into the game box.
 Place one of your wooden disks on space “0” of the Emperor track and another one on space “0” 
of the Victory Point track. 
 Place one of your wooden disks on space “10” of the Money track of your Hotel board, 
i.e. you start the game with 10 krones. Place the remaining wooden disks next to your Hotel board. 
You may need those wooden disks later to engage in politics, marking the 
corresponding cards with them.
 Take a coffee, wine, cake, and strudel from the supply and place them in the Kitchen on your 
Hotel board.
 Draw 6 Staff cards and keep them hidden from the other players.
As I said before: play the introductory variant and use the recommended 
sets, if you please.
 Put the round marker on space “1” of the Round track.
apothecaRy
capt. goldhaken
danceR
landgRave

Preparations
Decide collectively which side of the Hotel boards you would 
like to use. For your first play, we recommend you use the 
front sides.
Randomly determine a start player. This player 
receives Turn Order tile “1”. The next player in 
clockwise order receives Turn Order tile “2”, 
and so on.
Beginning with the last player (who has 
the highest Turn Order tile) and in counter-
clockwise order, each player chooses a guest 
from the face-up ones on the game board and 
places it in their Café at no cost. After each 
choice, slide the remaining guests to the right 
and place a new one from the draw pile on the empty space 
at left. After that, each player should have a guest in their 
Café.
Then, players prepare up to 3 rooms by taking Room tiles 
from the game board and placing them on same-colored 
spaces of their Hotel board. You must start with the bottom 
left room of your Hotel board. Subsequent Room tiles must 
be placed adjacent to already placed ones. You pay the cost 
printed on your Hotel board by moving the wooden disk on 
your Money track down.
Now you are ready to go!
Little piece of advice: definitely prepare 3 rooms. If you are 
Scottish or simply like saving money, you can prepare 3 free 
rooms.
Objective
The game is played over 7 rounds. At the end of rounds 3, 5, and 7, there is an Emperor Scoring. After round 7, 
there is also the Final Scoring. The player who then has the most Victory Points wins.
You know, there are several ways to get Victory Points: guests provide some, 
you get some in the Emperor Scorings, and for occupied rooms. With the 
right staff, there are even more ways to get points.
Course of Play
At the start of each round, the start player (who has Turn Order tile “1”) takes and rolls all the dice, sorting them 
by the rolled number and placing them on the corresponding Action spaces.
Then the start player takes a turn or passes (see “Passing”).
On your turn, you take the following actions:
1. Take a guest from the game board. (optional)
2. Take a die and carry out the corresponding action. (mandatory)
You can also take additional actions (see “Additional Actions”). 
Decorator
Florist
Interior 
Architect
Page-boy
Female 
Floor
Housekeeper

1) Take a Guest from the Game Board
On your turn, you can take one of the 5 face-up guests on the game board and place it in your Café. Pay the cost 
associated with the guest you took (printed on the game board), moving the wooden disk on your Money track 
down accordingly. Then place the guest on a free space in your Café. If all spaces are occupied, you cannot take 
a guest.
Slide all remaining guests on the 
game board to the right and place a 
new guest from the draw pile on the 
empty space at left.
Can I tell you a secret? The truth is the hotels choose their guests. A 
successful hotelier only takes guests that help the hotel prosper. So 
choose wisely, but try to get a new guest each turn, if possible. Be careful 
though: a guest does not leave your Café unless you complete their order!
2) Take a Die and Carry Out the Action
Choose an Action space with at least one die left and carry out the action. The number of dice on the Action space 
determines how much you get from the action. Then remove a die from the Action space and place it on the 
lowest visible number on your Turn Order tile.
The actions in detail:
For each die on this Action space, you can take 1 strudel or 1 cake. You cannot take more 
cake than strudel, but other than that you can take any combination of cake and strudel. 
Example: There are 3 dice showing “1”. Taking the action, you can choose 3 strudel, 
or 2 strudel and 1 cake. 
For each die on this Action space, you can take 1 wine or 1 coffee. You cannot 
take more coffee than wine, but other than that you can take any combination 
of coffee and wine.
If you understand action “1”, you also understand this 
one — you are not dumb, after all.
For each die on this Action space, you can prepare a room. Take a Room tile 
of your choice from the supply and place it on your Hotel board, according 
to the following rules: 
 Each Room tile must be adjacent to an already placed tile.
 The front of the Room tile has to be visible.
 You must pay the cost according to the row of the Room space.
 The color of the Room tile must match the color of the Room space.
If you place a Room tile on a space in the top right part of your Hotel board, 
you immediately receive the printed number of Victory Points.
apothecaRy
capt. goldhaken
danceR
landgRave

For each die on this Action space, you can advance 1 space on the Emperor 
track or your Money track. You can split the total between the two tracks.
Example: There are 2 dice showing “4”. You can either advance 2 spaces on 
the Emperor track, or 2 spaces on your Money track, or 1 space on each.
You can play exactly one Staff card. For each die on this Action space, the cost 
is reduced by 1. Pay the remaining cost by moving down on your Money track 
accordingly. If the cost drops below 0, you do not get any money out of this.
Example: There are 4 dice showing “5”. You play a Staff card costing 6, paying 
2 krones. Alternatively, you could play any Staff card costing up to 4 for free.
Pay 1 krone and choose any of the 5 other actions (1-5). Take the action 
based on the number of dice showing “6”, not the chosen number!
Example: There are 4 dice showing “6”, but only 1 die showing “2”. You pay 
1 krone and take 2 wine and 2 coffee. 
Whenever you receive dishes and drinks, you can place them immediately on a guest’s order. Place the rest in 
the Kitchen of your Hotel board.
By the way, this is a general rule, regardless of how you get those dishes 
and drinks.
Additional Actions
On your turn, you can also take the following additional actions:
 Once per turn, you can pay 1 krone to add 1 to the number of dice on the chosen Action space.
 You can pay 1 krone to move up to 3 dishes and drinks from your Kitchen to the orders on your Guest 
cards.
 You can place a wooden disk on a Politics card (see “Politics Cards”).
 You can use a Staff card you played with a “once per round” effect. If you do, turn it to the other side.
 You can move a guest whose order you completed to a free room. You immediately receive the 
printed number of Victory Points and the reward that guest provides. (See page 16 for an explanation 
of the used symbols.) Guests can only move into an unoccupied room of the same color. Turn the 
room to the other side and place the guest on the discard pile. When you turn over the last room in 
a group, you immediately and only once receive a bonus (see “Occupancy Bonus”).
If you have no free room of matching color, you cannot take this action. Guests for which you have 
no room stay in your Café and block space.
Except for the first one, you can take the additional actions any number of times during your turn.
It would not be fair if rich people could simply buy everything they want!

After you finish your turn, the player with the lowest number visible on their Turn Order tile goes next. 
Consequently, the player to the right of the start player takes two consecutive turns.
Example of a turn:
 
It is Doris’ turn. Since she has 3 guests already, she cannot attract a 
new guest into her Café. She chooses action 2 (there are 3 dice showing 
“2”) and pays an additional krone to receive 2 wine and 2 coffee. She 
places those on her Baroness, thus completing her order. She receives 
5 Victory Points and moves the Baroness to an empty blue room, 
turning that room to the other side. She receives the depicted reward 
(drawing 3 Staff cards and playing one of them) and places the 
Baroness on the discard pile. She also receives an occupancy bonus of 
2 Victory Points for occupying the last room in this group.
cRameRsopholus
BaRoness
cRameRsopholus
BaRoness
Passing
Instead of taking a turn, you can simply pass. This happens quite frequently when there are only a few dice left on 
Action spaces you do not want to use. When you pass, you must wait until every other player has either passed or 
taken two actions (and, thus, covered both numbers on their Turn Order tile).
When that happens, the player with the lowest number still showing on their Turn Order tile takes the remaining 
dice from all the Action spaces, removes one, and rolls the rest again, sorting them by number and placing them 
back accordingly. Then that player can take a turn or pass again.
Play continues in this fashion until all players have covered both numbers on their Turn Order tiles or there are no 
dice left on any Action space.
Example: It is Andrea’s turn. She desperately 
needs new rooms to move their guests into. 
Unfortunately, all dice from Action space 3 are 
gone. So she passes to wait for the re-roll. After 
every other player has taken 2 actions, she takes 
the remaining dice, removes one, and rolls again. She is 
lucky enough to roll “3” twice. She can now take that action 
and prepare 2 rooms.

Occupancy Bonus
When all the rooms in a group are occupied, you receive a bonus based on the 
size of the group and the type of the rooms in it. According to the table on your 
Hotel board, you receive additional advancements on the Emperor track for yellow 
rooms, Victory Points for blue rooms, and krones for red rooms. The bigger the 
group, the greater the bonus you receive.
You can trigger the bonus when receiving a reward from a guest that lets you turn 
a Room tile. Each group provides its bonus only once, in the moment you turn the 
last Room tile in that group.
Example: Benedict moves a noble to his last free blue room, thus occupying the last 
room in a blue group. He immediately receives an occupancy bonus for that group: 
since it has 2 rooms, he can advance 5 spaces on the Victory Point track.
Politics Cards
Each Politics card shows a requirement. As soon as you meet the requirement of a Politics card 
on your turn, you can place a wooden disk on the highest available space, receiving the printed 
number of Victory Points for that. You can only place one wooden disk per Politics card.
If you have no clue what to aim for in this game, you 
should take a look at the Politics cards. They usually provide 
some idea of what to play towards. If you have better plans, 
though, you can ignore them altogether.
There are 12 Politics cards, but only 3 are used in each game. If you meet the requirements of a card on your turn, 
you can place a wooden disk on the card and you immediately receive the printed number of Victory Points. You 
can only place one wooden disk on each card. 
Here is an explanation of the cards: 
You have 20 krones.
You are on space 10 of the 
Emperor track or higher.
You have played 
at least 6 Staff cards.
You have at least 12 Room tiles 
on your Hotel board.
ALL
All rooms in at least 2 rows 
of your Hotel board 
All rooms in at least 2 columns 
of your Hotel board 
All rooms in at least 6 groups 
of rooms on your Hotel board 
All rooms of one color 
on your Hotel board 
You have at least 3 occupied 
rooms of each color.
You have at least 4 red and 
3 yellow occupied rooms.
You have at least 4 yellow and 
3 blue occupied rooms.
You have at least 4 blue and 
3 red occupied rooms.

End of a Round
At the end of the 3rd, 5th, and 7th round, there is an Emperor Scoring (see “Emperor Scoring”). After the 7th round 
and its Emperor Scoring, there is a Final Scoring.
At the end of each round, you can turn your Staff cards face up again. Then pass your Turn Order tile to the next 
player in clockwise order. The new start player takes all the dice and moves the Round marker one space forward.
Emperor Scoring
Each player receives Victory Points for their wooden disk on the Emperor track, according to the value printed 
below the space that the wooden disk occupies.
Then each player must move their wooden disk a number of spaces back on the track: 3 spaces after the first, 
5 spaces after the second, and 7 spaces after the third Emperor Scoring. If your wooden disk ends up in the yellow 
area (so at least on space “3”), you receive the bonus on the Emperor tile. If your wooden disk ends up on “0”, 
you suffer the penalty of the Emperor tile. If your 
wooden disk ends up on “1” or “2”, you neither get 
a bonus nor suffer a penalty.
Emperor Tiles
There are 12 Emperor tiles, but only 3 are used in each game. The penalty part usually shows 2 options. If one of 
them is not possible, you must choose the other. Here is an explanation of the tiles:
Bonus: You receive 3 krones.
Penalty: You lose either 3 krones or 5 Victory 
Points.
Bonus: You receive any 2 dishes and/or 
drinks.
Penalty: You must return all dishes and 
drinks from your Kitchen to the general 
supply.
Bonus: Draw 3 Staff cards. You can choose 
one and play it for 3 fewer krones. Return 
the unused cards to the bottom of the Staff 
card pile.
Penalty: You must either return 2 Staff cards 
from your hand to the bottom of the Staff 
card pile or lose 5 Victory Points.
Bonus: Prepare a room of your choice 
without paying any cost. Other rules 
regarding the preparation of a room remain 
intact.
Penalty: You either lose 5 Victory Points or 
must remove an unoccupied room from the 
highest possible row of your Hotel board.
Bonus: You receive 1 strudel, 1 cake, 1 wine, 
and 1 coffee.
Penalty: You must return all dishes and 
drinks from your guests and Kitchen to 
the general supply.
Bonus: You receive 5 krones.
Penalty: You lose either 5 krones 
or 7 Victory Points.

Game End and Final Scoring
After the 7th round, there is a Final Scoring:
 You receive Victory Points for your Staff cards that provide them.
 You receive Victory Points for your occupied rooms: 1 Victory Point for each room in the first row of your 
Hotel board, 2 Victory Points each in the second row, 3 Victory Points each in the third row, and 4 Victory 
Points each in the top row.
 You receive 1 Victory Point for each krone and leftover dish and drink in your Kitchen.
 You lose 5 Victory Points for each guest in your Café.
The player with the most Victory Points wins. In case of a tie, the player who has more dishes, drinks, and krones 
left wins.
Introductory Variant
In order to familiarize yourselves with the game, we recommend you each 
start the game with an equal set of Staff cards. Before your first play, sort 
the Staff cards and give each player a set. The start player receives set A, 
the next player set B, and so on.
Then shuffle the remaining Staff cards to form the draw pile.
Variant for Experienced Players
At the start of the game, each player receives 6 Staff cards, chooses 1, and takes it into their hand. Then give the 
rest to the player to your left. Again, choose 1 card and pass the rest to the left. Repeat this process until you have 
chosen and taken 6 Staff cards into your hand.
Barkeeper
Stableman
Butler
Porter
Confectioner
Hotel 
Manager
Bonus: Draw 3 Staff cards. You can play one 
of them at no cost. Return the other two to 
the bottom of the Staff card pile.
Penalty: You must either return 3 Staff cards 
from your hand to the bottom of the Staff 
card pile or lose 7 Victory Points.
Bonus: You can place a Room tile of any 
color in the first or second row of your 
Hotel board. Immediately turn that room 
to the other side, marking it occupied. You 
must place the room adjacent to another.
Penalty: You either lose 7 Victory Points or 
must remove 2 occupied rooms from the 
highest possible row(s) of your Hotel board.
Bonus: You receive 8 Victory Points.
Penalty: You lose 8 Victory Points.
Bonus: You can place a Room tile of any 
color on your Hotel board. Immediately 
turn that room to the other side, marking 
it occupied. You must place the room 
adjacent to another.
Penalty: You must remove 2 occupied 
rooms from your Hotel board. These 
must be the occupied room in the highest 
possible row and the next possible room 
below it, if any.
Bonus: You receive 2 Victory Points per Staff 
card you played.
Penalty: You lose 2 Victory Points per Staff 
card you played.
Bonus: You can play a Staff card from your 
hand at no cost.
Penalty: You must either discard a Staff card 
you played with a “game end” effect or lose 
10 Victory Points.

Staff Cards 
You have a question for the Staff? I am gladly at your service. I would 
like to explain each and every Staff member in detail: I will also tell you 
when each Staff member activates and how much you have to pay for their 
services. The numbers in parentheses are the card reference numbers.
Some activate only once, namely when you hire them, i.e. when you play the 
Staff card.
Others activate once per round. You decide when that is, but once they 
have done their jobs, they take a nap for the rest of the round (meaning you 
should turn them face down). You can use them again next round.
There are also quite busy Staff who work permanently. Their effects last 
for the rest of the game.
Finally, there are Staff that only come into effect at the end of the game 
providing Victory Points.
Assistant Manager (32) (4 krones, game end): You receive 2 VP per Staff card you played, 
including the Assistant Manager, of course.
Barista (43) (3 krones, one-time): You receive 4 coffee.
Barkeeper (3) (4 krones, once per round): You receive 1 wine.
Booking Manager (27) (4 krones, game end): You receive 3 VP per occupied red room.
Bootblack (15) (4 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “4”, you advance 1 space on the 
Emperor track and on your money track for each die, instead of choosing one of the two options.
Breakfast Server (1) (4 krones, once per round): You receive 1 strudel.
Butler (9) (5 krones, permanent): You can prepare blue rooms at no cost.
Chambermaid (31) (4 krones, game end): You receive 1 VP per occupied room in your hotel.
Chauffeur (10) (5 krones, permanent): You can prepare red rooms at no cost.
Checker (18) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “5”, 
you also receive a discount of 2 krones. 
As usual: if the discount exceeds the cost, you do not receive any money.
Chef (21) (3 krones, one-time): You receive 1 strudel, 1 cake, 1 wine, and 1 coffee.
Chief Waiter (24) (1 krone, permanent): You can move dishes and drinks from your Kitchen 
to your guests at no cost.
Concierge (28) (4 krones, game end): You receive 3 VP per occupied blue room.
Confectioner (39) (3 krones, one-time): You receive 4 cakes.
Conference Manager (26) (5 krones, permanent): You do not suffer the penalty for being on “0” on the Emperor 
track, if you pay 1 krone.
Custodian (23) (5 krones, permanent): Each time a guest moves into a room, you also receive 1 krone.
Decorator (14) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “1” or “2”, you can also prepare 1 room.
Delivery Boy (25) (6 krones, permanent): You can take guests from the game board at no cost.
Detective (20) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “5”, you can also advance 2 spaces on 
the Emperor track.
Executive Housekeeper (12) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “3” or “4”, you also 
receive 2 VP.
Female Floor Housekeeper (46) (2 krones, game end): You receive 5 VP for each fully occupied floor in your 
hotel.
Florist (11) (5 krones, permanent): You can prepare yellow rooms at no cost.
Gardener (42) (3 krones, permanent): Each time you receive the Emperor bonus, you also receive 5 VP.
Groom (5) (4 krones, permanent): Each time you complete a red guest’s order, you also receive 
2 krones.
Hotel Manager (48) (4 krones, game end): You receive 4 VP for each set of 3 occupied rooms of different colors. 
Each room can only be part of one set. 
Example: At the end of the game, you have 3 red, 4 blue, and 6 yellow rooms, which are all occupied. You receive 
3x4=12 VP.

Interior Architect (19) (3 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “3”, you also receive 5 VP.
Kitchen Hand (17) (3 krones, permanent): You can take a die showing “6” at no cost. 
You get also the reward for the number of dice in Action space “6” plus one.
Larder Cook (44) (2 krones, one-time): You receive 4 strudels.
Laundress (16) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “4”, you also receive 4 VP.
Liftboy (47) (4 krones, game end): You receive 5 VP for each fully occupied column in your hotel.
Male Floor Housekeeper (33) (5 krones, permanent): Each time you complete a guest’s order, that consists of 4 dishes 
and drinks, you also receive 4 VP. You only receive those points when the guest moves to a room. 
You also receive the guest’s printed VP.
Marketing Director (40) (2 krones, game end): You receive 5 VP for each Politics card on which 
you placed a wooden disk.
Masseuse (7) (1 krone, permanent): Each time you complete a yellow guest’s order, 
you also receive 1 krone. You only receive that krone when the guest moves to a room. 
Operator (41) (3 krones, game end): You receive VP for your position on the Emperor track. 
You receive twice the depicted value in VP.
So you can get at most 12 VP from this, since your wooden disk can be at 
most on space 6 after the final Emperor scoring.
Page-boy (35) (2 Krones; one-time): You can turn 2 rooms of any color to the other side, marking 
them occupied.
Pool Attendant (45) (1 krone, one-time): Advance 3 spaces on the Emperor track. 
Porter (38) (5 krones, one-time): Complete a guest’s order by taking the dishes and drinks from the 
general supply.
Reception Clerk (30) (4 krones, game end): You receive 3 VP per occupied yellow room.
Receptionist (34) (5 krones, game end): You receive 1 VP per room in your hotel, 
regardless of whether or not the room is occupied, or merely prepared.
Restaurant Manager (13) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “1” or “2”, 
you also receive 1 additional dish and drink, respectively.
The normal rules apply: you cannot take more cake than strudel, or more 
coffee than wine.
Room Service (37) (3 krones, game end): You receive 2 VP for each fully occupied group of rooms 
in your hotel.
The rooms must be occupied, it does not suffice to merely prepare them.
Secretary (29) (5 krones, game end): You can copy another player’s Staff card.
Of course, you should copy a card providing VP—nothing else makes sense.
Sommelier (36) (2 krones, one-time): You receive 4 wine.
Sous-Chef (4) (6 krones, once per round): You receive 1 coffee.
Stableman (6) (1 krone, permanent): Each time you complete a blue guest’s order, you can also 
advance 1 space on the Emperor track.
Staff Manager (22) (3 krones, permanent): Each time you take a die showing “3”, 
you can also play a Staff card from your hand.
Tour Guide (8) (2 krones, permanent): Each time you complete a green guest’s order, 
you also receive 2 VP. You only receive those points when the guest moves to a room. 
You also receive the guest’s printed VP.
Waitress (2) (6 krones, once per round): You receive 1 cake.

Guest Cards
Guests are usually open books to us experts, so I should not need to 
explain them all, just a few of them:
Sculptor (49): You can prepare a room in the first or second row of your Hotel board at no cost.
If you cannot do so: tough luck! 
Knight of the empire (65): The only guest with no reward. 
What a greedy odd fellow. At least he is worth an easy 3 VP.
E. Gizia (97): You receive another turn, but do not remove a die when you take this action.
Thanks
The designers would like to thank all the play-testers for their time, suggestions, and enthusiasm, in particular:
Luporuciccio e Simona Boa, Marco Pranzo, Bruno Andreucci, Luca Leoni, Samantha Milani, Daniele Tascini, 
Antonio Tinto, Gabriele Ausiello, Carlo Lavezzi, Simone Scalabroni, Claudia Dini, Davide Pellacani, 
Davide Malvestuto, Luca und Livia Ercolini, Filippo Di Cataldo, Riccardo Rabissoni, Francesca Vilmercati, 
Jamil Zabarah, Giorgia Pandolfo, Daniel Marinangeli, and Gessica Sgrulloni.
A special thanks to Flaminia Brasini for her collaboration in all phases of the long development of the game.
The publisher would like to thank Grzegorz Kobiela for the English translation.
MAYFAIR GAMES
www.mayfairgames.com
Mayfair Games, Inc
8060 St. Louis Ave.
Skokie, IL 60076
© 2015 - 2016 Lookout GmbH
Hiddigwarder Straße 37,
D- 27804 Berne, Germany. 
rules version 2.2

Overview of Symbols
Advance the depicted 
number of spaces on the 
Emperor track.
Take a dish or drink of the 
depicted color. Place it on 
a guest’s order or in your 
Kitchen.
Take a dish or drink of your 
choice. Place it on a guest’s 
order or in your Kitchen.
You receive 2 Victory Points.
choice, according to the 
placement rules. You must 
pay the cost.
choice, according to the 
placement rules. You must 
pay the cost minus 1 krone.
choice at no cost, according 
to the placement rules.
You receive 1 krone.
You can play a Staff card at 
no cost.
You can play a Staff card, 
paying 3 krones less than 
printed on the card.
Take a Staff card from the 
draw pile and put it into your 
hand.
Take 3 Staff cards from the 
draw pile and play one of 
them immediately, paying 
3 krones less than printed on 
the card. Return the other 
2 cards to the bottom of the 
draw pile.
You can turn a room of the 
depicted color to the other 
side, marking it occupied. 
Gray color means you can 
turn any room, regardless of 
color.
Complete the order on a 
Guest card of the depicted 
color. Take the required 
dishes and drinks from the 
general supply, placing them 
on the Guest card. Gray color 
means you can complete any 
guest’s order, regardless of 
color.
Prepare a room of the 
depicted color at no cost.
Take a face-up Guest card 
from the game board and 
place it in your Café at no 
cost, unless you have no 
space in your Café.
one-time
once per round
permanent
game end