54 worker tiles
 18 each of: 
• cowboy 
 
• crafsman 
 
 • engineer
18 hazard tiles
 6 each of: 
 
• ﬂood 
 
• drought 
 
 • rockfall
22 teepee tiles
 11 each of: 
 
• blue teepee tile 
 
• green teepee tile
A boardgame by Alexander Pfister
for 2 to 4 players, aged 12 and up
Development: Viktor Kobilke
America in the 19th century: You are a rancher and repeatedly herd your cattle 
from Texas to Kansas City, where you send them oﬀ by train. Tis earns you 
money and victory points. Needless to say: Each time you arrive in Kansas City, 
you want to have your most valuable cattle in tow. Tis will not only require
that you keep your herd in good shape, but also that you eﬀectively utilize the 
various buildings along the trail. Success will require that you hire capable staﬀ:
Cowboys to improve your herd, crafsmen to build your very own buildings and
engineers to manage the important railroad line.
If you cleverly manage your herd and navigate the opportunities and pitfalls of this 
great western trail, you surely will gain the most victory points and win the game.
COMPONENTS
Illustrations: Andreas Resch
1 game board
Note: Te backs of the tiles above are marked with either 1, 2 or 3.
Tis is to ensure that the tiles enter the game in a reasonably balanced way.
4 player boards
4 player count tiles
 1 per player, double sided
front: 3 players
back: 4 players 
4 engines
56 player discs
 14 per player
4 certiﬁcate markers
4 cattlemen
- 2 -

=
36 market cattle cards
 • 7 Holstein (yellow) • 7 Brown Swiss (red) • 7 Ayrshire (blue) • 9 West Highland (brown) 
• 6 Texas Longhorn (purple)
56 player cattle cards
 14 per player: 
• 5 Jersey (gray) 
 • 3 Dutch Belt (green) 
• 3 Black Angus (black) 
• 3 Guernsey (white)
4 starting objective cards
24 objective cards
5 station master tiles
1 job market token
55 coins
7 neutral building tiles
47 building tiles
40 private building tiles
 10 per player, double sided
92 cattle cards
1 scoring note pad
front
front
Each private building tile is marked with a number (1 to 10) and letter a or b, depending on its side.
a-side
b-side
• 35 with a 
value of 
1 Dollar
• 20 with a 
value of 
5 Dollars
Each neutral building tile is marked with a capital letter (A to G).
- 3 -

Railroad track
Job market
Station master spaces
Neutral spaces
Indian trade section
Hazard
section
(drought)
Hazard section
(ﬂood)
Hazard
section
(rockfall)
Foresight 
Kansas City
Cattle market
Now ﬁll the 6 foresight spaces 
in Kansas City with tiles from 
the Kansas City supply:
SETUP
8.
Place the 
game board 
in the middle 
of the table.
1.
Take the 7 neutral building tiles and place one face up onto each of the 7 neutral 
spaces on the game board:
If this is your ﬁrst game, place each tile onto the space marked with its matching
letter (A to G).
In subsequent games, shuﬄe the tiles and distribute them at random.
3.
Shuﬄe the 5 station master tiles and place one at 
random face up onto each of the 5 station master 
spaces.
2.
Take the 54 worker tiles, the 22 teepee tiles 
and the 18 hazard tiles and turn them face 
down. Sort them into piles according to the 
numbers on their back (1, 2 and 3). Ten 
shuﬄe each of these piles separately and place 
them as three face-down piles by the upper 
lef of the game board (next to Kansas City).
Tese piles are called the Kansas City supply.
5.
From the Kansas City supply, start revealing tiles with a on their back and place them 
one afer the other onto the game board.
Where a revealed tile is placed depends on its type:
6.
Start revealing tiles with a on their back (which include only 
worker tiles). Put these worker tiles one afer the other in the job 
market as follows:
7.
Place the job 
market token 
onto the top 
dashed round 
space in the
job market.
4.
Shuﬄe the 36 market cattle cards and 
place them as a face-down market cattle 
stack beneath the lower lef of the game 
board.
Depending on your player count, draw a 
number of cattle cards from this stack:
• In a 2-player game: Draw 7 cards.
• In a 3-player game: Draw 10 cards.
• In a 4-player game: Draw 13 cards.
Sort the drawn cards by color and 
place them face up beneath the game 
board in the cattle market, forming an 
overlapping row in which the lef side 
of each card is visible. For clarity, the 
cards of this row should be arranged in 
the following order from lef to right: 
yellow, red, blue, brown, purple (not all 
colors may be present though).
9.
Shuﬄe the 24 objective 
cards and place them as 
a face-down stack to the 
right of the game board. 
Ten reveal 4 cards from 
this stack and display them 
face up in a column below 
the stack.
Tis display is called the 
general objective display.
10.
Place the coins within 
reach of all players as a 
general supply. Tis supply 
is called the bank.
11.
• If it is a teepee tile (green or blue), place it 
in the Indian trade section onto the empty 
space with the lowest money value above it 
(starting at -3).
• If it is a hazard tile, place it in its
corresponding hazard section (ﬂood, 
drought or rockfall)
onto the empty space
with the lowest number
(1 to 4).
If there is no empty space
lef, ﬂip the tile face down
and return it to the Kansas
City supply.
Keep revealing tiles with a until you have placed a total of 7 tiles onto the game board.
Start in the top row and place the
ﬁrst revealed tile onto the space
directly beneath the player count sign
of your actual player count.
Place the next tile onto the space to the 
right of that tile and continue like this 
rightwards.
Afer you have placed a tile onto the 
rightmost space of the top row, continue 
along the second row, where you place 
the next tile yet again onto the space 
in line with your player count sign.
Ten continue like this rightwards
until you place a tile onto the space to 
the lef of the job market token. Tis 
is the last tile. So depending on your 
player count, there now are between
3 and 7 worker tiles in the job market.
3-player game example:
sight spaces marked 1.
sight spaces marked 2.
sight spaces marked 3.
- 4 -

Personal objective area
Room for the 
personal
discard pile
Personal
draw stack
for the
Breeding values
Roo
R
person
discard pile
d
R
city, which may also be worth victory points. Aferwards, your cattleman continues its 
movement again in the lower right corner of the game board and throughout the game 
your cattleman will reach Kansas City about 5 to 7 times.
All victory points are awarded at the end of the game. Ten you add up the victory point 
symbols on the various components in front of you as well as the ones marked with your 
color on the game board. Te player with the most victory points wins the game.
Ten each player receives the 10 private building tiles of her color.
Tese building tiles are double sided and each is marked with a number
(between 1 and 10) and with the letter 'a' on one side and the letter 'b' on the other.
In your ﬁrst couple of games, each player turns her private building tiles to their 
a-side and displays them in an ascending order above her player board.
13.
14.
Ten each player receives the following items of her color:
14 player discs - which she places onto her player board to cover up each of the colored 
disc spaces. (Only the 2 gray spaces in the upper lef remain empty.)
1 engine - which she places onto the starting space 
 
 
 
 
(the red building) of the railroad track on the game board.
1 certiﬁcate marker - which she places onto the 
 
 
 
 
top space of her certiﬁcate track (next to the 0).
1 cattleman - which she places next to her player board for now.
If you know the game a little better, you may try the following: Choose a player who 
determines the side of each of her building tiles at random (for example by tossing 
them in the air) and then displays them in ascending order above her player board. 
Aferwards all other players copy her display by turning their tiles to the same sides.
Shuﬄe the 4 starting objective cards 
and deal each player one random 
card, which she places face up below 
her player board. Tis is the ﬁrst
card of her personal objective area.
Return any spare starting objective 
cards to the box.
16.
Ten each player receives the 14 player cattle cards that 
are marked with a star of her color.
Tese 14 cards make up her herd deck.
She shuﬄes her herd deck and places it as her face-down 
personal draw stack to the lef of her player board.
15.
Finally, determine a starting player. Tis player 
receives 6 dollars from the bank as starting capital, 
which she places in front of her. Te next player in 
clockwise direction receives 7 dollars, the third player 
(if any) receives 8 dollars and the fourth player (if any) 
receives 9 dollars as starting capital. 
17.
Ten she draws 4 cards from this personal draw stack and 
adds them to her hand.
On your turn, you move your cattleman along a trail that winds and forks from the lower 
right corner of the game board to Kansas City in the upper lef. Along your path, you 
perform actions that provide you with various ways to earn victory points, for example: 
Placing private building tiles, buying cattle from the cattle market, upgrading train stations 
and removing hazards.
Each time your cattleman reaches Kansas City, you must send cattle oﬀ by train to another 
What is your herd deck?
Your herd deck represents your herd, 
which you lead along the trail. Each cattle 
card of that herd represents one animal of 
a speciﬁc cattle type, clearly denoted by 
the card's color and breeding value.
Each player starts with an identical herd 
deck of rather low breeding values.
However, during the game, you can 
improve your deck by adding market cattle 
cards with higher breeding values as well 
as objective cards to it.
Your herd deck is made up of the following parts:
• Your face-down personal draw stack to the lef of your player board.
• Your hand cards that you draw from that draw stack according to your 
hand limit (you start with a hand limit of 4 cards).
• Your face-up personal discard pile, onto which you place any cards that you 
discard from your hand as well as any cards you acquire during the game.
Important: When you must draw a card from your personal draw stack but 
have no cards lef in that stack, then (and only then) pick up your personal 
discard pile, shuﬄe it thoroughly and place it as your new face-down 
personal draw stack to the lef of your player board. Ten continue to draw 
cards from it as usual.
What is the purpose of the cattle cards?
On the locations of the trail, there are 
several actions that require speciﬁc cattle 
cards to be discarded from your hand in 
order to gain rewards.
Also, each time you reach Kansas City, 
you want to have many diﬀerent types of 
cattle with high breeding values in your 
hand: Te more varied and valuable they 
are, the more money and victory points 
are in store for you. (For details see pages 
8 and 9.)
Each player chooses a player color.
She receives the player board of that color (identiﬁable 
by the 14 round colored spaces) and places it in front of 
her.
12.
If you are playing with 3 or 4 players, each player 
also receives the player count tile of her color.
She turns it to the side of the appropriate
player count and uses it to cover up Phase A
of her player board.
Tus, for the remainder of the game, the side of each building tile is identical for all 
players. No one may deliberately ﬂip a building tile to its other side.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
- 5 -

In this case,
BLUE has a
step limit of 3,
On your turn, you must carry out all of the following phases in this order:
Phase A) Move your cattleman to another location along the trail
Phase B) Use the action(s) of your reached location 
Phase C) Draw up to your hand limit
Ten it is the next player's turn.
Phase A) Move your cattleman to another location along the trail
What is considered a location?
Te main location of the trail is Kansas City. Furthermore, any tile that is placed on a space of the trail is considered 
a location (building tiles, hazard tiles and teepee tiles). 
Spaces without any tile are considered an unimpeded part of the trail and are NOT locations!
Beginning with the starting player (the one with a starting capital of only 6 Dollars), players consecutively take turns in a clockwise direction.
In this phase, you must move your cattleman from its current location along 
the trail to another location.
For this, bear the following rules in mind:
• Te movement of your cattleman is measured in steps: Each location 
along your path takes 1 step (remember, empty spaces along the trail 
are not considered locations).
Example: To move to this neutral building 
tile, Mary’s blue cattleman could either 
move 2 steps by passing over the red
private building tile or 3 steps by passing 
over the 2 ﬂood hazard tiles.
while RED has 
a step limit of 5.
• You must move your cattleman at least 1 step and are not 
allowed to move it more steps than the current step limit 
your player board indicates. (Depending on your player 
count, you start with a step limit of 3 or 4, which later in the 
game can be increased.)
(How to clear these spaces of their 
discs will be explained later.)
• You must always move your cattleman forward along the intended direction of the trail (as indicated by the arrows).
• If the trail forks, choose one of the available paths to continue along.
• Te location on which your cattleman ends its movement (either because you want it to or because your step limit is exhausted), is the location you use in phase B.
• You are not allowed to pass over Kansas City. So when your cattleman reaches Kansas City, it must end its movement there.
• Te cattlemen of the other players do not interfere in any way with your own cattleman. Several cattleman can be on the same location.
Attention: Several locations show a green or black hand (or both). If your cattleman
moves to or passes over such a location, you must immediately pay a fee:
If it is a hazard or teepee tile, you must pay the fee to the bank.
If it is a private building tile of another player, you must pay the fee to that player.
Te fee depends on the player count and the color of the hand(s): 
Example: In a 4-player game, Mary has 2 Dollars lef. If she moved her cattleman along 
the upper path (red arrows), she would need to pay those 2 Dollars to Mike, since his private 
building tile would be the ﬁrst location on Mary’s way and has a black hand. Ten, when 
moving on to Peter’s private building tile with the green hand, Mary would not have any 
money lef to pay. Tis would be no problem for her, as she just could move on anyway.
However, Mary instead opts for the lower path (blue arrows): Tere she must pay 1 Dollar to 
the bank for the ﬁrst ﬂood hazard tile with the green hand and her last Dollar for the second 
ﬂood hazard tile with the black hand. Aferwards she just keeps moving on as usual. She opt-
ed for the lower path because she would have lost her 2 Dollars either way. But on the lower 
path at least she avoided paying those directly to an opponent.
In a 2-player game:
In a 3-player game:
costs 1 Dollar
In a 4-player game: 
costs 1 Dollar
Very important: If you cannot pay for some or all of the hands along your path, you are still 
allowed to move. Tis means that if your cattleman moves to or passes over a location whose 
fee you cannot pay, pay as much as you can and continue as usual.
You never have to pay fees retroactively, even if you receive money while still at a location 
whose fee you could not pay before.
Tis only applies to fees levied by hands. All other costs and requirements in the game must 
always be paid/met in full.
PLAYING THE GAME
- 6 -
On your very ﬁrst turn of the game, place your 
cattleman onto any neutral building tile and continue 
directly with phase B.
You may start on the same building tile as other players.
Note: Te 3 boxes at the top of each player board give an overview of the 3 phases.

Phase B) Use the action(s) of your reached location
Afer moving your cattleman, use the location on which it ended its movement.
However, your options on the location diﬀer depending on whether it is:
a) A neutral building tile or a private building tile of your own color
b) A private building tile of another player, a hazard tile or a teepee tile
c) Kansas City
a) On a neutral building tile or a private building tile of your own color, you have two options:
Either 
use the local action(s) of that tile
or use one single auxiliary action
Use the local action(s)
Most building tiles show two diﬀerent local actions on their bottom half.
Tese actions are separated from one another by full-length dividers.
(Only a few building tiles show just one or more than two local actions.)
• You may now perform each of that tile’s local actions once.
• You may perform these local actions in any order.
• You do not have to perform all of the available local actions. But if an action shows a cost or requirement, you have 
to pay/meet it completely in order to gain that action’s reward.
• A few tiles show two actions (separated by a white slash) within the same local action. 
 
 
You are only allowed to perform one of those actions.
• Some spaces of the trail have risk actions attached. If a building tile is placed on such a space, the risk action 
becomes part of that tile's local actions and thus can be performed by its owner each time she reaches that 
location.
Te individual local actions are explained in detail on pages 11 to 14.
2 local actions
3 local actions
1 local action
risk action
Use one single auxiliary action
If you do not perform any of the local actions of the reached tile, then and only then
may you perform one single auxiliary action instead.
Your auxiliary actions can be found on the lef side of your player board in the auxiliary action section.
At the beginning of the game, only 2 of them are available. Each of the other auxiliary actions becomes
available afer you have cleared at least one of its two disc spaces (again, you will learn
soon enough how to do that). Te individual auxiliary actions are explained in detail on page 13.
Example: Mary 
has ended her 
movement on a 
private building tile 
of her color.
She may now per-
form each of that 
tile's local actions 
once (in any order):
1 She may discard one "Guernsey" cattle 
card from her hand to her personal dis-
card pile to gain 4 Dollars from the bank.
She may buy cattle from the cattle market.
She may use the attached risk action to 
discard one cattle card from her hand to 
her personal discard pile and move her 
certiﬁcate marker one space forward on 
her certiﬁcate track.
If she cannot or does not want to perform 
one or more of those actions, she simply for-
feits them. But only if she forfeits all of them 
is she allowed to perform one single auxilia-
ry action instead.
b) On a building tile of another player, a hazard tile or a teepee tile, you have only one option:
Perform one single auxiliary action (see above).
 Note: Tis means, of course, that you usually will try to reach a neutral building tile or
 a building tile of your own color, because only there can you perform local actions.
c) When you reach Kansas City, you must carry out all of the 5 Kansas City subphases in succession.
Example: If Mary had ended the 
movement of her cattleman on any of
these tiles,
she would only be allowed to perform 
one single auxiliary action.
To make sure that you do not forget any subphase, move your cattleman along the numbered 
spots and perform the corresponding subphase before moving on to the next spot.
Te 5 Kansas City subphases are:
Foresight 1: 
spot 1 and
Foresight 2: 
spot 2 and
Foresight 3: 
spot 3 and
Income:
Reveal your entire hand, calculate 
your income and gain that amount 
from the
bank. Ten
discard
your hand
to your personal discard pile.
Delivery:
Move one of your player discs 
from your player board onto a 
city crest 
and pay 
any trans-
port costs 
arising.
- 7 -

If it is a worker tile, place it onto the next free 
space of the job market. To determine that next 
free space, apply the following rules:
• Te tile must always be placed in the row 
where the job market token is located.
• Te spaces of that row must always be ﬁlled 
from lef to right.
• If you are playing with fewer than 4 players, 
also consider the following:
In a 3-player game, each row only comprises 
3 spaces (starting beneath the 3-player count 
sign) and the entire lef column is lef empty.
In a 2-player game, each row only comprises 
2 spaces (starting beneath the 2-player count 
sign) and both lef columns are lef empty.
• Te last space to be ﬁlled in each row is always 
the one with the job market token. And as you 
place a worker tile onto that space, move the 
job market token along the arrow to the 
dashed round space of the next row.
If it is a teepee tile (green or blue), place 
it in the Indian trade section onto the 
empty space with the lowest money 
value above it. If no empty space is lef 
there, take the teepee tile out of the 
game by returning it to the box. 
If it is a hazard tile, place it in the 
corresponding hazard section (ﬂood, drought 
or rockfall) onto the empty space with the 
lowest number (1 to 4). If no empty space is 
lef there, take the hazard tile out of the game 
by returning it to the box.
Each of the 3 tiles that you choose in subphases , and must immediately be moved to its corresponding section:
Usually, when the job market token is moved to the next row, nothing in particular happens. 
However, the job market token triggers a special situation when it is moved along a colored 
arrow:
If the job market token is moved along a yellow arrow, you must immediately 
ﬁll up the cattle market. When this happens, draw from the market cattle
stack as many cards as it takes to bring the cards in the cattle market up to their initial number:
In a 2-player game: Fill the cattle market up to its total of 7 cards.
In a 3-player game: Fill the cattle market up to its total of 10 cards.
In a 4-player game: Fill the cattle market up to its total of 13 cards.
As in the setup, sort all cattle cards by color and place them face up in an overlapping row in 
which the lef side of each card is visible. For clarity, the cards of this row should be arranged in 
the usual order from lef to right: yellow, red, blue, brown, purple.
• If you must ﬁll up the cattle market but the number of cattle cards in the market is already 
equal to (or higher than) the total for your player count, don't add any cards to it.
• If the market cattle stack is empty, no more cards are added to the cattle market.
If the job market token is moved from the bottom row along the red arrow, 
the game end is triggered (see page 15).
Income:
Reveal your entire hand to the other players and calculate its total breeding value:
To do this, sum the breeding values of each diﬀerent type of cattle that you have in 
hand. Tis means each type is counted only once, no matter how many cards
of that type you have.
(Ignore any victory points on your cattle cards and any objective cards for now.)
Ten, if possible and if you like, you can increase that total breeding value by 
adding certiﬁcates to it. Tere are 2 types of certiﬁcate in the game: Temporary 
certiﬁcates and permanent certiﬁcates.
Temporary certiﬁcates are those on your certiﬁcate track: Te number next to
the current position of your certiﬁcate marker tells you how many temporary
certiﬁcates you have available. Of those, you can use as many now as you want
by moving your certiﬁcate marker backwards accordingly.
Permanent certiﬁcates are those on the upper half of any station master tiles
in front of you: Each of those increases your total breeding value
automatically by 1 for the rest of the game. (On how to receive station
master tiles see section "Upgrading train stations" on page 12).
Once your total breeding value is set (including any certiﬁcates), take that many 
Dollars from the bank. Place this amount a little set oﬀ from the rest of your money 
so that you are able to track that total breeding value in subphase 5.
Ten discard all cards from your hand to your personal discard pile.
Example:
Mary has 4 cards in her hand.
Because of her 2 "Dutch Belt" cards, she 
only has 3 diﬀerent types of cattle:
• "Dutch Belt" 
 (breeding value: 2)
• "Brown Swiss" (breeding value: 3)
• "Holstein" 
 (breeding value: 3)
Her total breeding value is therefore 8. 
Mary's certiﬁcate marker indicates that she has 3 temporary 
certiﬁcates available. She decides to use 2 of those temporary 
certiﬁcates by moving her certiﬁcate marker backwards 
accordingly. She adds these 2 certiﬁcates to her current total 
breeding value of 8 and thus increases it to a total of 10.
If she owned one station master tile with a
permanent certiﬁcate, her initial total breeding
value would have been 9 instead of 8.
As Mary has settled on a total breeding value of 10, she takes 10 Dollars 
from the bank and places them in front of her.
Ten she discards all of her four hand cards to her personal discard pile.
- 8 -
3-player game example:

City values
City spaces for player discs
City crests
Delivery:
Te cattle for which you just received your income must now be delivered to a city along the railroad. Te crest of each 
city shows a city value that corresponds to that cattle's total breeding value: Te higher the total breeding value, the 
farther up the railroad you can deliver.
To do this, decide on a city whose city value is equal to or lower than your cattle's total breeding value. Bear in mind, however, that 
you are not allowed to choose any city to which you have delivered before (that already has one of your discs on its city space). Te only 
exceptions to this rule are:
 
 
• the local town, Kansas City and
 
 
• the terminal town, San Francisco.
 
 
You may deliver to either of these cities even if you already have one or more of your discs there.
Once you have decided on a city, place one of your player discs onto its city space 
(if other discs are already there, put it on top of those). Take that player disc from 
any of the disc spaces of your player board but keep in mind that there are 2 types 
of disc space: Tose with white corners and those with dark corners.
A disc from a disc space
with white corners
can be placed onto
any city space.
A disc from a disc 
 
 
 
 
 
 
space with dark corners,
however, can only be placed onto a city space that also has dark corners.
By clearing a disc space of its disc this way, you unlock its ability. Note, that 
some of the disc spaces with dark corners have additional requirements
or give rewards for clearing them. For details, see the box on the right.
By clearing any of the disc 
spaces in the auxiliary 
action section, you 
broaden your options 
when performing auxiliary 
actions (see page 13).
By clearing either of these spaces, 
you increase your step limit. If you 
take the disc from this space,
immediately gain 3 Dollars from 
the bank. Te 3 victory points for clearing this space are 
awarded at the end of the game.
By clearing either of these spaces, you increase your hand limit.
However, if you take a disc from either one of these spaces, you must im-
mediately pay 5 Dollars to the bank. If you can't, you must choose another 
space to clear.
By clearing these spaces, you increase your temporary certiﬁcate limit (you 
start with a limit of 3). However, if you clear the 6-certiﬁcate space before the 
4-certiﬁcate space, your temporary certiﬁcate limit remains 3 until you also have 
cleared the 4-certiﬁcate space.
By placing your disc onto a city space, you may gain or 
lose victory points at the end of the game and may trigger 
delivery actions which you must perform immediately.
Attention: Te action in any of the green arrows is not 
triggered until both adjacent crests have one of your discs
on them. Te same is true for victory points in green 
arrows: Only if both adjacent crests have one of your discs 
on them, have you unlocked the victory points between 
them.
If you place your disc in the Kansas City crest, immediately gain 6 Dollars from the bank. At the 
end of the game, you lose 6 victory points for that disc. 
Tis delivery action is triggered when you place your disc onto one of its adjacent city crests while 
the other adjacent crest already has one of your discs on it. Now you must immediately choose 
one objective card from the general objective display, place it face up onto your personal discard 
pile and replenish the display if necessary. (For details see the section "Action: Gain one objective 
card from the general objective display" on page 12). If the placing of your disc triggers this action in 
both adjacent green arrows, you must perform the action twice. (Te general objective display is 
replenished before the second.)
Finally, check whether you need to 
pay any transport costs for your deliv-
ery. Tis depends on the position of 
your engine on the railroad track:
With her total breeding 
value of 10, Mary could 
deliver up to Albuquerque. 
If she chooses to do so, 
she places one of her discs 
from her player board onto 
If the nose of your engine is beneath or farther up the 
railroad track than the city crest onto which you just placed 
your disc, you have no transport costs.
If your engine is farther down the track than that city crest, 
you must pay transport costs as follows: Pay 1 Dollar to the 
bank for each cross that is located between the nose of your 
engine and the city value of that crest.
Note: Since you gain your income beforehand, you are 
always able to pay any transport costs arising.
(On how engines are moved, see page 12.)
Albuquerque's city space. She does not trigger an action or unlock victory points with this, as none of the adjacent cities 
has her discs on it yet. Finally, she has to pay transport costs of 3 Dollars, as there are 3 crosses between the nose of her 
engine and Albuquerque.
Instead of Albuquerque, she could have chosen Santa Fe, Wichita or Kansas City for her delivery (not Colorado Springs 
or Topeka as she had delivered to them before). However, onto any of these city spaces she could have only placed a disc 
from a disc space with white corners. While Wichita and Kansas City would not have raised any transport costs, the 
transport cost for delivering to Santa Fe would have been 2 Dollars.
Afer ﬁnishing the Delivery subphase, carry out these 2 ﬁnal steps:
1) Move your cattleman to the start of the trail, 
by placing it onto the horseman space in the 
lower right corner of the game board. Te 
next time it is your turn, the movement of 
your cattleman starts from there.
2) Reﬁll each of the 3 empty foresight spaces in Kansas 
City with tiles drawn from the Kansas City supply. 
Make sure that on each space you place a face-up tile 
whose number on the back matches the number of 
that space.
- 9 -

Requirement
Reward
Phase C) Draw up to your hand limit
Each player starts with a hand limit of 4 and can increase it up to 6. If you have 
fewer cards in your hand now than the current hand limit your player board 
indicates, bring their number up to that limit by drawing as many cards from your 
personal draw stack as you lack. (If necessary, shuﬄe your personal discard pile 
and use it to replace your run-out draw stack as described at the bottom of page 5).
Note: If you just went through the subphases of Kansas City, you must replenish 
your entire hand, of course.
Ten it is the next player's turn.
Example: Mary has a hand limit of 5 cards (because she already 
cleared one of the relevant disc spaces on her player board). In phase 
B she discarded 2 cards from her hand in order to perform a local 
action. As that lef her with 3 cards in her hand, she must now draw 
2 cards to bring her hand back up to 5. As she has 2 cards lef in her 
personal draw stack, she draws these 2 cards. Note, that even though 
her personal draw stack is empty now, she does not yet create a new 
one from her personal discard pile. She will do that right before she 
has to draw the next card.
Te main source of actions in the game are the local actions of the neutral building tiles and of your private building tiles, though there are a few other 
situations in which actions might be triggered (delivery actions, single auxiliary actions, etc).
However, irrespective of the situation in which actions are performed, the actions themselves are always represented by the same icons. So wherever the 
same icon appears, it refers to the same action.
We start with a few general notes and explanations. Right afer that, the local actions of the neutral building tiles will be explained in detail (in alphabetical 
order of the tiles). Tese explanations will then serve as a frame of reference for the local actions of the private building tiles and for the objective cards.
Quite a few actions consist of a speciﬁc requirement and a speciﬁc reward. Only if you meet the requirement are you allowed to gain the 
reward. Requirements are usually associated with red (red arrows or red numbers), while rewards are usually associated with green and 
white (green arrows and/or white numbers).
Important: You are allowed to forfeit a reward completely or in part even though you meet the requirement. However, if you receive an 
amount of Dollars as a reward, you must take that entire amount.
Requirement:
Te most frequent requirement is discarding cards. Wherever an action shows one or more cards with a red arrow, you must discard 
the exact depicted card(s) from your hand to your face-up personal discard pile in order to gain the reward shown next to it. (As 
mentioned before, you can perform the action only once, no matter how ofen you can meet the requirement.)
Reward:
marker one space forward.
Gain 4 Dollars.
marker one space forward 
AND gain 2 Dollars.
General notes
Discard exactly one cattle card of 
any type.
Discard exactly one gray 
cattle card ("Jersey").
Discard exactly one black cattle card 
("Black Angus").
Discard exactly two cattle cards of 
the same type.
The Actions
- 10 -
For the remainder of this rules explanation keep the following terminology in mind:
• Whenever we speak of DISCARDING A CARD, it always implies that you must place 
the card from your hand face up onto your personal discard pile.
• Whenever we speak of GAINING A SPECIFIC AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, it always 
implies that you must take that exact amount from the bank.
• Whenever we speak of PAYING A SPECIFIC AMOUNT OF DOLLARS, it always implies 
that you must return that exact amount to the bank.
With this action icon, 
you can move your 
certiﬁcate marker one 
space forward.
Attention: If a speciﬁc cattle card is meant, it is represented by its color and breeding value.
Discard exactly one gray cattle card ("Jersey").
Move your engine 
one space forward.
=
• Whenever we speak of MOVING YOUR 
CERTIFICATE MARKER FORWARD, 
it always implies that your certiﬁcate 
marker is moved forward on your 
certiﬁcate track. You can move it as 
many spaces forward as the particular 
action icon indicates. However, you 
can never move your certiﬁcate marker 
beyond your temporary certiﬁcate limit 
(which is 3 at the beginning of the game).
• Whenever we speak of MOVING YOUR ENGINE A NUMBER OF SPACES, it always 
implies that your engine is moved along the spaces of the railroad track (see page 12 for 
details).
With this action icon, 
you can move your 
certiﬁcate marker up to 
2 spaces forward.
Here are a few examples of discarding actions:

building 
Cowboy row
Crafsman row
Engineer row
Immediate actions
Te local actions of the neutral building tiles
Action: Place one of your private building tiles onto a building space on the trail
When you perform this action, choose one of the private building tiles above your player board and either:
• place it onto any empty building space on the trail OR
• use it to replace one of your private building tiles that is already placed on a building space on the trail.
Remember: Te side of each building tile is identical for all players. You are not allowed to ﬂip it to its other side.
Before choosing a building tile for this action, you must make sure: 
a) that you have enough crafsman for it AND
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) that you can pay that building tile's cost.
Example: In phase B, Mary uses the neutral building tile "A".
With the ﬁrst hiring action, she hires an engineer. Since she is not allowed to hire the engineer from the row with 
the job market token, she pays 7 Dollars for the engineer in the previous row. She then places him onto the lefmost 
space of her engineer row, triggering an immediate action. She decides to use that immediate action and discards a 
"Jersey" cattle card to gain 2 Dollars accordingly.
With the second hiring action of neutral building tile "A", she hires a cowboy from the row that depicts a hiring cost 
of 6 Dollars. Since the icon of the second hiring action increases the cost by 2 Dollars, she must pay a 
 
total of 8 Dollars to the bank. Ten she places the cowboy onto the lefmost space of her cowboy row.
Unfortunately, she has no "Guernsey" cattle card in her hand and must therefore forfeit this building's discarding action. 
one "Dutch 
Belt" cattle 
2 Dollars. 
Place one 
of your 
private 
building 
tiles onto 
a building 
space on 
Note: Te neutral building tile "B" is the only one that allows you to place your own building tiles on the game board. Te only other way to do it
are the immediate actions of your crafsman row. Tose have the additional advantage that you must only pay 1 Dollar per crafsman rather than 2.
Example: 
To place this building tile onto an empty space on 
the trail, Mary needs to have at least 2 crafsmen 
in her crafsman row and must pay 4 Dollars.
If she replaces this building tile
on the trail with this one,
she needs to have at least
3 crafsman in her crafsman 
row and must pay 6 Dollars.
In its upper lef corner, each private building tile shows how many crafsman
you need for it. If the number of crafsman in the crafsman row of your worker
section equals or exceeds that number, you can place the tile onto any empty
building space on the trail, provided you immediately pay its cost:
 
 
For each crafsman needed for that building tile,
 
 
you must pay 2 Dollars.
Alternatively, you can use this action to replace one of your private building tiles on the 
trail with a higher-valued private building tile from above your player board. For this, 
you only need to have the diﬀerence of crafsman between the 2 building tiles and also 
only must pay the diﬀerence. Ten put the new building tile in place of the old one and 
remove that old building tile entirely from the game by returning it to the box.
- 11 -
= Te hiring cost is not modiﬁed.
= Costs 2 Dollars more.
= Costs 1 Dollar less.
Action: Hire one worker
When you perform this action, choose exactly one worker tile from the job market, pay that worker's 
hiring cost and place him in the worker section of your player board.
Bear the following rules in mind:
• You are not allowed to hire a worker from the row where the job market token is currently located. 
Tose workers are unavailable until the job market token has moved on.
• Te hiring cost of any of the other workers in the job market is the cost depicted on the right side of his row. 
 However, this hiring cost is modiﬁed by the value shown on the action icon itself:
Afer you have paid the hiring cost, place the worker in your worker section,
onto the lefmost free space in the row of his worker type. Note that each player already starts 
the game with one worker of each of the 3 types (cowboy, crafsman, engineer) which means 
that the ﬁrst space of each row is already occupied.
If the space on which you place the hired worker depicts an immediate action, you must 
choose to either perform that action immediately or forfeit it. (Te icons of these actions should 
be self-explanatory once you have read the rules.)
• If a row is already full, you are not allowed to hire another worker of that type.
• At the end of the game, each worker that is placed on the ﬁfh or sixth space of any row is 
worth 4 victory points.
one "Guernsey" 
cattle card and 
gain 2 Dollars. 
Perform the action 
"Hire one worker" 
once more.
Perform the 
action "Hire one
worker". 

Station space
Upgrade cost
Station master tile
Train station
Turnout space
Spaces
of the railroad 
track
Immediate actions on station master tiles:
Perform either the action "Remove a hazard" free of charge (see next page) 
OR the action "Trade with the Indians" (see below).
If you stop the movement of your engine on a turnout space of a 
train station, you must immediately decide whether or not you 
want to upgrade that train station.
Attention: You can only upgrade a train station if you have not 
upgraded that train station before (which you'll recognize because 
you'll already have one of your discs on it). It does not matter if 
any of your opponents already have a disc on it.
To upgrade the train station, pay the upgrade cost depicted 
right next to it. Ten place one of your player discs onto its 
station space (if other discs are already there, put it on top of 
Action: Trade with the Indians
When you perform this action, remove one 
teepee tile of your choice from the Indian trade 
section and place it face up in front of you. Depending 
on the money value shown above the teepee tile, you 
immediately either gain money or must pay money.
• If the Indian trade section is empty, you cannot get a 
teepee tile. 
For example, if you take this tile, 
you must pay 2 Dollars.
those). Take that player disc from any of the disc spaces of your player board but bear in 
mind that the station spaces also either have white corners or black corners. As with the 
city spaces during delivery, a disc from a disc space with white corners can be placed onto 
any station space. A disc from a disc space with dark corners can only be placed onto a 
station space that also has dark corners. (For further details on clearing your disc spaces 
see the golden box on page 9.)
Afer you have placed your disc onto the train station, 
check whether there is a station master tile placed 
right next to it. If so, you may now acquire that station 
master tile by appointing one of your hired workers as 
the station master. To do this, choose from your worker 
section any of your hired workers that is placed on the 
rightmost space of its respective row. Remove that 
worker tile from your player board, put it in place of the 
station master tile and ﬁnally place that station master 
tile face up next to your player board.
• Only at the moment in which you upgrade a train station do you get the chance to acquire 
its station master tile. If you forfeit that chance, you have no way of getting it later.
• If you remove a worker from your worker section and thus uncover its immediate action 
again, you can perform that action the next time you place another hired worker onto that 
space.
• Once a worker tile is placed on a station master space, it remains there for the rest of the 
game.
Each station master tile comprises two parts:
Te upper half either depicts an immediate action or a permanent certiﬁ-
cate. If you receive a tile with an immediate action, either perform that action 
right away or forfeit it. For the use of permanent certiﬁcates see page 8.
Te lower half depicts a unique way of gaining additional victory points at 
the end of the game (see page 16).
Te last space of the railroad track (space 39) is special. If your engine 
reaches this space, its movement ends there (and you may upgrade 
the train station as usual). Ten you must move your engine back-
wards. You must move your engine at least one space backwards and 
may move it to any free space along the track (even a turnout space). Afer you have done 
so, immediately gain 3 Dollars. If you did move it to a turnout space, you can immediately 
upgrade its train station as usual (and even use the money which you just received).
- 12 -
Upgrading train stations
Action: Gain one objective card from the general objective display
When you perform this action, either choose one objective card from the general objective display 
to the right of the game board or draw the top card of the objective stack. Place this card face up 
onto your personal discard pile. If you take a card from the objective display, ﬁll its vacant place 
immediately with a new face-up card drawn from the objective stack. (See page 15 for the purpose of 
objective cards.)
Action: Move your engine forward on the railroad track
If you move your engine via this action icon, you can move it 
up to as many spaces forward as you have engineers in your 
engineer row.
When moving your engine, bear the following rules in mind:
• Except for the starting space, no space of the railroad track can accommodate more than one engine at a time. Tis means that when 
moving your engine, you must ignore any space entirely that is occupied by another engine (as if that space was not there).
• Along the track, there are several turnout spaces, each of which belongs to a train station. Each turnout space counts as one additional 
space between the two spaces it emerges from. So coming from a space with a switch, you can either move your engine to the next 
numbered space or move it to the train station's turnout space (if it is not blocked by another engine).
• You may always choose to move your engine fewer spaces forward than allowed. However, once you decide to stop on a space, you 
instantly forfeit any excess movement you might have lef from that action. So if you move to a turnout space to upgrade its train 
station (see below), that action is concluded, even if you moved fewer spaces to get there than you could have.
Example: Since Mary has 3 engineers in her 
engineer row, she may move her engine now 
up to 3 spaces forward. Tus, she moves her 
engine from space 1 to space 5 (because space 
3 is occupied by the red engine and is therefore 
ignored entirely).
Instead of space 5, she could just as well have 
moved her engine to the turnout space branching 
oﬀ space 4.
If you take this tile, 
you gain 6 Dollars.
EITHER perform the action "Trade with the
Indians" OR pay 2 Dollars to move your engine
up to 2 spaces forward.
Perform one single or one double auxiliary action.
EITHER move your certiﬁcate marker 
one space forward OR gain one objective 
card from the general objective display.
Move your engine up to as many
spaces forward as you have engineers.

one "Black 
Angus" cattle 
2 Dollars. 
the action 
"Buy cattle 
from the 
cattle mar-
ket".
engine up 
to as many 
forward as 
you have 
engineers.
one single 
or one 
Action: Remove a hazard
When you perform this action, remove one hazard tile of your choice from any 
hazard section and place it face up in front of you.
 
If the icon shows a cost, you must immediately pay that many Dollars 
 
 
(otherwise you are not allowed to take a hazard tile).
 
If the icon shows no cost, take the hazard tile free of charge.
• Each hazard tile has either 2, 3 or 4 victory points printed 
 
 
 
on it. As usual, you gain those at the end of the game.
• If all 3 hazard sections are empty, you cannot get a hazard tile. 
 
Action: Buy cattle from the cattle market
 
When you perform this action, you can acquire new
 
cattle cards from the cattle market and place them
face up onto your personal discard pile. However, the number and types of cattle cards that you may acquire in the course of this action is not ﬁxed.
Instead, your options depend on how many cowboys you have in your cowboy row as well as how much money you spend.
If you have just one cowboy in your cowboy row, you only have the option of:
If you have 2 cowboys, you have more options:
Tis means that the more cowboys you have, the better are your options. How you split your cowboys among
these options is up to you, as long as you make sure that each of your cowboys is only put to use once during this action.
EITHER buying one cattle card with 
a breeding value of 3 for 6 Dollars
OR buying one "West Highland" 
cattle card for 12 Dollars.
OR you could buy one 
cattle card with a breeding 
value of 3 for 3 Dollars
OR one "Texas 
Longhorn" cattle 
card for 12 Dollars.
You could, for example, buy 2 cattle 
cards: For instance, 2 cattle cards with a 
breeding value of 3 for 6 Dollars each.
Discard exactly 2 cattle cards of the 
same type and gain 4 Dollars.
the action
"Remove a
hazard". 
• Any of the cowboys that you do not put to use buying a cattle card during this action may instead 
 
be used to draw 2 cards from the market cattle stack and add them face up to the cattle market.
• Tis option means: If you put 3 Cowboys to use and pay 5 Dollars, you get exactly 2 cattle cards with a breeding value of 3 each.
• Tis option means: If you put 5 Cowboys to use and pay 8 Dollars, you get exactly 2 "West Highland" cattle cards.
• You can only buy cattle cards that are currently available in the cattle market.
• You can always choose to buy fewer cattle cards than you are allowed. 
• Any cattle card that you acquire during this action must be placed face up onto your personal discard pile.
- 13 -
Action: Perform one single or one double auxiliary action
Te auxiliary action section of your player board shows
5 diﬀerent auxiliary actions.
When you are required
to move your engine
backwards, this is done similarly 
to forward movement: If a space is 
occupied by another engine, you 
ignore that space (thus moving 
farther backwards). You can move 
backwards to a turnout space and if 
you stop there, may upgrade its train 
station as usual.
• However, as this is a requirement, 
you can never deliberately move 
fewer spaces backwards than 
required.
• If your engine is on the starting 
space of the railroad track, you 
cannot use an action that requires 
you to move your engine backwards.
• Note that the engine is never turned 
around. While moving backwards, 
its nose must still keep facing 
Single auxiliary action
Gain 1 Dollar.
Double auxiliary action
Draw 1 card from your personal 
draw stack. Ten discard 1 card.
Draw 2 cards from your 
personal draw stack. Ten 
discard 2 cards.
Pay 1 Dollar and move your 
engine one space backwards. 
Ten move your certiﬁcate 
marker one space forward.
Pay 2 Dollars and move your 
engine 2 spaces backwards.
Ten move your certiﬁcate 
marker up to 2 spaces forward.
Pay 1 Dollar and move your 
engine one space forward.
Pay 2 Dollars and move your 
engine 2 spaces forward.
Move your engine one space 
backwards. Ten remove one of 
your hand cards entirely from 
the game (and thus your deck) 
by returning it to the box. 
Move your engine 2 spaces 
backwards. Ten remove 2 of 
your hand cards entirely from 
the game (and thus your deck) 
by returning them to the box. 
If you use this icon to perform one single auxiliary 
action on a location (instead of its local actions), you 
can never double it (even if both disc spaces of the 
particular action are cleared).
Each auxiliary action has 2 disc spaces 
next to it. As long as both disc spaces 
of an auxiliary action are occupied by a 
disc, the particular action is locked and 
cannot be used. Only if at least one of its 
disc spaces has been cleared is the action 
unlocked and available.
Whenever you use this action icon, choose one 
of your available auxiliary actions and perform it. 
If only one of that action's disc spaces is cleared, 
you can use the particular action once (sin-
gle auxiliary action). If both disc spaces of that action are 
cleared, you may use it as a double auxiliary action. Tis 
means that its requirement (if it has one) and its reward are 
both doubled.
+

Te local actions of your private building tiles
 Perform an extraordinary delivery: First, move your engine one or more spaces backwards. 
Ten choose a city crest whose city value is equal to or lower than the number of spaces that 
you just moved your engine backwards (occupied spaces and turnout spaces, however, do 
not count towards this number). As usual, you may not choose any city crest that already 
has one of your discs on it (except Kansas City or San Francisco). Ten, following the usual 
rules, place one of your player discs from your player board onto the chosen city crest. If this 
triggers any delivery actions, perform these as usual. You do not have to pay any transport 
costs, however. If your engine has landed on a turnout space, you may now upgrade its train 
station following the usual rules. Ten this local action ends.
- 14 -
A building tile is in the woods if 
at least one of its edges touches 
any of the woods on the game 
board. (If private building tile 
"1a" is located in the woods itself, 
it counts in like manner.)
Action: Move your cattleman 
forward along the trail
Tis action allows you to move your 
cattleman forward to another location along 
If you do, you must move it at least 1 step and 
may not move it more steps than the number 
in the icon states.
Gain 2 Dollars for each of your private building tiles 
that is located in the woods.
Discard 
exactly one 
"Guernsey" 
cattle card 
and gain
4 Dollars.
Perform the action "Buy cattle 
from the cattle market".
Move your cattle-
man up to 2 steps 
forward along the 
trail.
On the newly 
reached location, 
perform phase B 
again.
Perform the action 
"Remove a hazard". 
For example, 
these 3 blue 
building tiles
are in the
woods.
Tis one
is not.
On the location where 
you stop, you must 
then perform once 
more all of phase B.
Note that you do not replenish your hand 
cards before performing phase B again.
Tis is only done at the end of your turn.
engine up to
4 spaces
Discard exactly 2 cattle cards of 
the same type and gain 3 Dollars.
Perform the action "Hire one worker". 
(His hiring cost is reduced by 1.)
engine up to as 
many spaces 
forward as you 
have engineers.
Discard exactly one "Holstein" 
cattle card and gain 10 Dollars.
one 
single or 
one 
For each pair consisting of 1 green and 
1 blue teepee tile that you have collected, 
move your certiﬁcate marker up to
2 spaces forward AND gain 2 Dollars. 
(You do not dispose of your teepee tiles.)
EITHER perform the 
action "Trade with the 
Indians" OR perform 
one single or one double 
auxiliary action.
engine up 
to 2 spaces 
cattleman
1 step forward 
On the newly 
reached 
location, 
perform phase 
Move your engine up to
3 spaces forward.
marker as far 
forward as possible 
(i.e. until you reach 
your temporary 
certiﬁcate limit).
up to 5 steps forward 
location, perform phase 
one objective card 
and move your 
certiﬁcate
marker up to
2 spaces forward.
engine one 
space back-
wards and 
gain
3 Dollars.
one "Jersey" 
cattle card and 
move your 
engine one space 
Discard 
exactly
one "Dutch 
Belt" cattle 
3 Dollars.
one single 
or one 
1 step forward along 
location, perform 
phase B again.
Move your engine up to as many 
spaces forward as you have 
building tiles in the woods.
Discard one cattle 
card of any type, 
gain 3 Dollars AND 
gain one objective 
card from the general 
objective display. 
Add this objective 
card directly to your 
hand.
Draw up to as
many cards
from your 
personal draw 
stack as you have 
cowboys in your 
cowboy row. Ten 
discard as many 
cards as you drew.
cattleman 
up to
3 steps forward 
along the 
trail. On the 
newly reached 
location, 
perform phase 
Discard exactly one "Black Angus" 
cattle card and move your certiﬁcate 
marker up to 2 spaces forward.
Gain as many 
Dollars as you 
have engineers 
in your engineer 
row.
Copy the local actions of one adjacent 
building tile. It does not matter if that 
building tile is neutral or if it belongs to 
you or even another player. Adjacent 
means in this context that there may 
not be any other location nor any 
empty space in between.
According to 
the usual rules, 
upgrade one train 
station anywhere 
on the railroad 
track behind your 
engine.
Gain 4 Dollars.
up to 4 steps forward 
location, perform 
phase B again.

Immediate 
action
Tasks
During the game, you can gain objective 
cards via certain actions. Tey are then 
usually put onto your personal discard pile 
and thus enter your hand at some point later.
During your own turn, if you happen to have one or 
more objective cards in your hand, you can play any 
of them, either: • before performing phase A or
• before or afer performing any 
one action in phase B.
Tis means that you are neither allowed to play 
objective cards in the middle of an action nor afer 
you have started to carry out phase C.
When you play an objective card, place it face up in 
your personal objective area (beneath your player board).
Ten perform the immediate action depicted in the upper lef corner
of the card or forfeit it.
Te following immediate actions can be found on objective cards:
Te objective cards
Note: You are not compelled to play your objective cards. If you want, you can keep some or all of them in 
your deck by the usual means (for example, by discarding them via this icon ). For each objective card that 
is still in your deck at the end of the game, you may then decide if you want to score it or not. For the cards 
placed in your personal objective area, you do not have that choice. Tose must be scored.
Move your cattleman up to 3 steps forward along the trail, 
ignoring any green and black hands. However, you are not 
allowed to use the location on which you stop. So if you 
move your cattleman before phase A, you then start the 
Draw up to 3 cards from your personal draw stack. Ten 
discard as many cards as you drew.
Move your engine up to 2 or 3 spaces forward.
Perform one single or one double auxiliary action.
Each objective card depicts a combination of tasks to be fulﬁlled at the end of the game. If all of the tasks 
of an objective card are fulﬁlled by then, you gain the victory points printed on it.
If its tasks are not fulﬁlled completely, you lose the negative victory point value printed on it. 
(Only your starting objective card has no negative victory point value).
Important: Each single fulﬁlled task can only count towards one objective card. So if several 
objective cards show the same tasks, each of these tasks must be fulﬁlled individually.
Te following tasks can be found on objective cards:
usual movement of phase A from that location. If you move your 
cattleman afer using a location in phase B, you directly carry out 
phase C once your cattleman reaches the new location. You are not 
allowed to move to Kansas City via this immediate action.
• Have 1 building tile on the game board.
• Have 1 green teepee tile in front of you.
• Have 1 blue teepee tile in front of you.
• Have 1 hazard tile in front of you (of any kind).
• Have 1 of your discs on a train station.
Example: To have all tasks of these cards 
fulﬁlled at the end, Mary needs to have by then:
• at least 3 of her private building tiles on the 
game board,
• at least 3 hazard tiles in front of her,
• at least 1 blue teepee tile in front of her and
• at least 2 discs on San Francisco's city space.
If she manages to have all of these things, she will gain 18 victory points. If, for example, she was one disc 
short on San Francisco's city space, she would only gain 10 victory points (because one of the objective cards 
with the San Francisco task would count as minus 3 victory points).
• Have 1 cattle card with a 
breeding value of 3 in your 
deck.
• Have 1 "West Highland" cattle 
card in your deck.
• Have 1 "Texas Longhorn" cattle 
card in your deck.
• Have 1 of your discs on the city 
space of San Francisco.
Te game end is triggered when a player places a worker tile onto the last space of the 
job market while carrying out subphase 2 or 3 in Kansas City. As this makes the job 
market token move along the red arrow out of the job market, the active player imme-
diately takes the job market token and places it in front of her. If this happens during 
subphase 2, she then carries out subphase 3 but may not choose another worker tile 
(as there is no space lef in the job market). If there are only worker tiles lef, she skips 
phase 3 entirely. Aferwards, she carries out subphases 4 and 5 as usual and also reﬁlls 
any empty foresight spaces at the end of her turn. Tis was her last turn.
Ten, each of the other players has one ﬁnal turn, in which she moves her cattleman as usual and uses the reached location. Players that 
move to Kansas City during their ﬁnal turn also carry out the 5 subphases as usual. However, they may not choose any worker tiles from 
the foresight spaces when performing subphases 2 and 3 (skipping those entirely if there are only worker tiles lef). Still, at the end of their 
turn, they must reﬁll any empty foresight spaces.
Afer the last player has ﬁnished her ﬁnal turn, the game ends. Now, attend to the ﬁnal scoring.
END OF THE GAME
- 15 -

Te player gains 1 victory point for every 5 Dollars that she owns.
Gain 1 victory point 
for each worker in your 
worker section (including 
the ones printed on the 
player board).
every 2 objective cards 
in your objective area 
(whether you fulﬁlled 
them or not).
every 2 hazard tiles in 
front of you (of any kind).
each pair consisting of
1 green teepee tile and
1 blue teepee tile in front 
of you.
every 2 certiﬁcates you 
have (no matter if they are 
permanent or temporary). 
printed on each of her private building tiles
which is placed on the game board.
Example: Mary has unlocked the 6 victory 
points of Sacramento and the 4 victory points 
between Sacramento and San Diego. Since she 
has no disc on El Paso's city space, she has not 
unlocked the 8 victory points.
printed right next to each train station that has 
her disc on it.
printed on each of the collected hazard tiles in 
front of her.
From her deck (personal draw stack, hand cards 
and personal discard pile), the player seeks out 
all cattle cards that have victory points on them. 
Ten she gains the sum of those victory points.
Te player must seek out all objective cards that she still has in her deck. For 
each of those, she must decide whether she wants to remove it from the game 
or add it to her personal objective area now (without using its immediate 
action). Aferwards, she checks each objective card in her personal objective 
area to see if she has fulﬁlled each of its tasks individually. For all cards that 
are entirely fulﬁlled, she sums the positive victory points printed on them. 
For all cards that she has not fulﬁlled completely, she subtracts the negative 
points printed on them. Ten she gains the result as her victory points (this 
can also be a negative result). See page 15 for details.
Te player gains the sum 
of victory points generated 
by the individual tasks
of the station master tiles 
that she has in front of her. 
(Tese individual tasks are 
totally independent of the 
tasks on objective cards.)
Te player gains 4 victory 
points for each worker 
that is placed on the ﬁfh 
or sixth 
space of 
any row 
in her 
worker 
section.
Te player gains 
3 victory points 
if she managed 
to clear this disc 
Te player gains the sum 
of the victory points 
that she has unlocked 
with her discs on the 
city crests. Any negative 
victory points must be 
subtracted of course. 
(Tus even negative sums 
are possible.)
See page 9 for details.
space during the game.
Te player gains 2 victory points if she has the job market 
token in front of her.
Te individual tasks of
the station master tiles
Whoever has the most victory points in total wins the game.
In the case of a tie, the victory is shared.
General notes and special cases:
• Money is considered unlimited. If the bank should run out, use something else as a 
substitute.
• If the objective stack should run out, the vacant spaces in the general objective 
display are not reﬁlled anymore. If the general objective display is empty, no new 
objective cards can be gained.
• You are allowed to look through the cards of your personal discard pile at any time. 
You are not allowed to look at the cards of your personal draw stack.
• As you can remove cards from the game via an auxiliary action, you are able to slim 
your deck down. Tere is no limit to how small your deck can become. If you should 
reach the point when you don't have enough cards in your deck to replenish your 
hand to its limit, you simply have to get by on fewer cards (which is not advisable).
• If you must place a disc onto a city space during delivery or onto a train station 
while upgrading it, some special cases can occur: If you are supposed to place a disc 
onto a space with white corners but only happen to have discs on disc spaces with 
dark corners lef, you are allowed to place a disc from a disc space with dark corners 
onto a space with white corners. If you are supposed to place a disc but are unable to 
(because you have none lef or cannot pay for them), remove one of your discs from 
a train station of your choice and place that one instead.
THE FINAL SCORING
Take the scoring note pad and go through its 11 categories.
In each category, write down the victory points for each player as follows:
Author: Alexander Pﬁster
Illustrations and Graphics: Andreas Resch
Development, rule book and layout: Viktor Kobilke
Rule book revision: Neil Crowley
Copyright: © 2016 eggertspiele GmbH & Co. KG, Friedhofstr. 17
21073 Hamburg, Germany. All rights reserved.
www.eggertspiele.de
Distribution: Pegasus Spiele GmbH, Am Straßbach 3
61169 Friedberg, Germany
www.pegasus.de
Credits
- 16 -
We wish to thank all testplayers, especially Michael Gantner, Gerhard Heinzle,
Wolfgang Lehner, Andreas Pelikan, Stefan Widerin, Matthias Nagy, and the Molter-family.