RULEBOOK

Based on Original Material by
Kevin Clark
Duncan Huffman
Douglas Seacat
Jason Soles
Game Design
Michael Faciane
Chief Creative Officer
Project Director
Bryan Cutler
Project Manager
Game Development Manager
Studio Director
Ron Kruzie
Sculpting
Sean Bullough
Ben Misenar
Art Direction
Kris Aubin
Box Illustration
Imaginary Friends Studios
Board Art
Javier Rodriguez
Concept Art
Chris Walton
Graphic Design
Kim Goddard
Josh Manderville
Stuart Spengler
Introduction
Editing
Darla Kennerud
Brian Campbell
Proofreading
Darla Kennerud
Production Director
Mark Christensen
President
Sherry Yeary
Licensing & Contract Manager
Brent Waldher
Marketing Coordinator
William Shick
Playtest Coordinator
David Carl
Playtesters
Greg Anecito
Kris Aubin
David Carl
Kevin Clark
Jack Coleman
Matt DiPietro
Marky Erhardt
Michael Faciane
Alfonso Falco
Duncan Huffman
Adam Johnson
Adam Poirier
Douglas Seacat
William Shick
Stuart Spengler
Jason Soles
Jacob Stanley
Marc Verebely
Brent Waldher
Chris Walton
CREDITS
CONTENTS
• 1 game board
• 2 pillars
• 1 spiked Grinder Ball
• 10 steamjacks (5 red and 5 blue)
• 32 detachable arms
(16 red and 16 blue)
• 24 specialty dice
(10 white, 10 red, and 4 blue)
• 8 double-sided effect tokens
• 1 mark token
• 2 goal tokens
• 1 rulebook
• 2 reference sheets
©2001–2009 Privateer Press, Inc., All Rights Reserved. Privateer Press, Grind, WARMACHINE®, HORDES, Bodgers, Infernal Contraption, Infernal Contraption 2: Sabotage!, 
Scrappers, Monsterpocalypse® and their logos and slogans are trademarks of Privateer Press, Inc. 13434 NE 16th St. Bellevue, WA 98005. This game is a work of 
fiction. Any resemblance to actual people, places, or events is purely coincidental. No part of this game may be stored in any retrieval system or transmitted in any 
form without written permission from Privateer Press. Duplicating any portion of the materials herein, unless specifically addressed within the work or by written 
permission from Privateer Press, is strictly prohibited. We reserve the right to throw transgressors to the steamjacks.
Permission to electronically store and print this document for personal, non commercial use is hereby granted.
TM

Suspended just above a lake of seething magma, this flame-
scorched arena is ground zero for the most brutal sport ever 
created—Grind! Here 10-ton, ash-spewing, steam-powered robots 
called steamjacks fight to move a giant, spiked ball into the other 
team’s goal. Using every weapon in their arsenal, these steamjacks 
slam, smash, and crush their way through the opposition as they 
tirelessly slug it out for the title. 
The Destructodome is the battlefield for two rival teams of armored 
metal warriors: the Iron Storm and the Steel Fury. With their eyes on 
the prize, these two teams will stop at nothing to own the blistering 
field, so pack your playbook with cunning maneuvers, loadout your 
team with devastating weaponry, and get ready to stake your claim 
to glory. For the next hour, you’ll be calling all the shots as you vie for 
total domination of this metal-on-metal contest.
Your strategy must be merciless. Your resolve, indestructible. 
In Grind, only victory can quench the burning fury within these 
unstoppable machines.
The Grinder is about to drop. Stoke your fire and brace for battle!
WELCOME TO THE DESTRUCTODOME!

Goal Pits
Each goal zone has a goal pit in the middle. When the 
Grinder is moved into your opponent’s goal pit, you score a 
goal. The Grinder does not have to end its movement on the 
goal pit to score.
Goal pits have curved backboards that hinder the Grinder’s 
movement. The Grinder cannot move into or be placed in the 
goal pit from an adjacent space behind the backboard.
While the Grinder is in the catch, only a steamjack in an 
adjacent space can target it; those 2 or more spaces away 
cannot target it. After the Grinder moves from it, the catch 
becomes a normal space on the playing field until someone 
scores a goal (or time runs out) and the field is reset.
The Gutter & Walls
The outermost spaces on the playing field form the gutter. 
The gutter affects the way the Grinder moves along the edge 
of the field, but it does not affect steamjack movement.
Walls surround the entire field, along the outside edges, to 
keep the steamjack action contained. Steamjacks can—and 
do!—crash into walls, but they cannot break through them.
Scoreboard
Each player’s side of the game board has a scoreboard for 
keeping track of his goals. Begin the game with your goal 
token on 0, and move it to the next number whenever you 
score a goal.
Game Clock, Dice Pool & Dice Well
A game clock, dice pool, and dice well on each player’s side 
of the game board hold his dice during the game. The game 
clock uses dice to mark the remaining turns in the period; 
as the clock runs down, each turn one of those dice moves 
to the dice pool. A player can use any dice in his dice pool 
to enhance his team’s attacks and so on. Depending on their 
color, some of those dice will go to his dice well for the rest 
of the turn, and some of them will go to his opponent’s dice 
pool, giving that player the chance to use them.
Arena Setup
Before the game, place a pillar in each goal zone between 
the goal pit and the catch, as shown in the arena diagram 
above. (That space shows a steam vent.) Each pillar is 3 
spaces from the catch and 3 spaces from a goal pit.
The Grinder cannot move into the goal pit from the spaces with Xs.
GUTTER
WALL
PILLAR
PILLAR
STEAM VENTS
CATCH
NEUTRAL
ZONE
GOAL ZONE
GOAL ZONE
THE DESTRUCTODOME ARENA
All the metal-on-metal carnage takes place in the enormous Destructodome arena. A battered steel grid 
within the arena designates the playing field where the hulking teams of steamjacks face off. Dividing 
the playing field are three zones: the neutral zone in the middle and a goal zone at each end.
Pillars
Spiked pillars on the playing field protect the 
goal pits. Steamjacks and the Grinder cannot 
move through pillars.
The Catch
The catch is in the center of the playing field. 
When you set up the game, place the Grinder 
in the catch.
BACKBOARD
G
U
T
T
E
R

DICE
Instead of pips or numbers, Grind dice use explosion 
symbols and blank faces. A blank face represents a miss; one 
explosion symbol is called a strike; two explosion symbols 
count as 2 strikes, also known as a super strike. When you 
roll the dice, add up the number of explosion symbols you 
see. For example, the dice below add up to 3 strikes.
STEAMJACKS & THE GRINDER
Steamjacks are 10-ton machines of destruction that combine 
steam-powered strength and an arsenal of specialized 
weaponry with ruthless efficiency. Whether the small, fast 
Runners or the larger, heavier Crushers, steamjacks can 
execute tactical plays, redline their boilers, and smash their 
way to the goal pit.
Steamjack Stats
• SPEED—This is the number of spaces the steamjack can move 
when it advances.
• BOILER—This is the maximum number of action dice you can 
roll for a steamjack when it redlines (see “Redlining,” p. 8).
• ARMOR—This is the number of strikes a player must roll on 
an attack to hit the steamjack. Though it is not a steamjack, the 
Grinder has an Armor stat, which is 0.
• CONTROL—This number affects a steamjack’s control over the 
Grinder (see “Grinder Control,” p. 11). A steamjack’s Control 
stat is equal to the number of control arms it has.
Runner
Runners are the undisputed speed demons of Grind. 
Constructed for quickness and maximum control, these light 
steamjacks dodge around the heavies to move the Grinder 
downfield and into the goal pit.
0 strikes + 1 strike + 2 strikes
= 3 strikes
Grind uses three types of dice. Each type is a different color 
and offers different chances of rolling a strike.
Action Dice (white)
Each action die has 3 misses, 2 strikes, and 1 super strike.
Action dice allow your steamjack to make attacks and 
perform other actions. Each time you make an attack, you 
must use at least 1 action die in the attack roll.
You begin each turn with 10 action dice in your dice pool. 
After you spend or roll action dice, place them in your 
opponent’s dice pool.
Boost Dice (blue)
Each boost die has 2 misses, 3 strikes, and 1 super strike. 
You use boost dice with specific abilities and circumstances, 
such as when a steamjack has a knack for a particular kind of 
attack. Some game effects allow you to roll extra boost dice. 
You can never roll more than 4 boost dice at a time. If a game 
effect results in a situation where you would roll more than 4 
boost dice, you roll only 4 of them.
Both players share the boost dice, so keep them nearby and 
easy to reach.
Power Dice (red)
Each power die has 1 miss, 4 strikes, and 1 super strike.
You can add any power dice from your dice pool to your 
rolls to increase your chance of success greatly. After you 
roll power dice, place them in your dice well for the rest of 
the turn.
You begin each game with 5 power dice on the clock and 
move 1 power die from your game clock to your dice well 
at the beginning of each of your turns. The number of 
power dice on your game clock shows the number of turns 
you have left in the period.
Runner Stats
Speed: 6 Boiler: 3 Armor: 2 Control: X
Crusher
The hulking Crushers are made to annihilate the opposing 
defense and ram the Grinder straight down the opponent’s 
goal pit. With heavy armor and superior strength offsetting 
their slower speed, Crushers can take a beating and dish it 
right back out.
Crusher Stats
Speed: 4 Boiler: 2 Armor: 4 Control: X
Blue Crusher
Blue Runner
Red Crusher
Red Runner

The Grinder
At the center of the game, the 
Grinder is a huge ball of hurt—
reinforced metal fragments wrapped 
in layers of steel bands and covered 
in spikes can make any steamjack in 
its way feel the pain.
Steamjack Arms
Arm Types
Steamjack arms come in three types: melee, control, and 
ranged. A steamjack’s arms can be both of the same type or 
any combination of these types.
• A MELEE ARM can make attacks against targets within the 
steamjack’s reach (see “Steamjack Reach & Blocking,” p. 8).
• A CONTROL ARM handles the Grinder and protects it from 
opposing steamjacks. A steamjack has a Control stat equal to 
the number of control arms it has. A control arm also functions 
as a melee arm, so it can make attacks against targets within the 
• A RANGED ARM can make ranged attacks.
Attack Stats
Each arm has an Attack stat represented by two numbers. 
The first number is the most action dice you can roll when 
attacking with the arm. You do not have to roll all of these 
dice if you don’t want to, but you do have to roll at least 1.
Steamjacks can be outfitted with a variety of vicious 
weaponized arms to dominate the opposition, each one with 
different abilities and strengths. How you equip your team 
can drastically change the way it functions during the game.
The larger arms are for Crushers and the smaller ones are for 
Runners. Although some might look better on one side of a 
steamjack than the other, any arm will fit on either the right 
or left side. 
	
ATTACK	
TYPE	
ABILITIES
Fist 	
Grip: If this steamjack has two Fists, it can make a 	
	
	
	
	
body slam or throw power attack with this arm.
Interceptor 	
Goal Tending: When this steamjack is adjacent to 	
	
	
	
	
its goal pit, each space adjacent to this steamjack is 	
	
	
	
	
considered within its reach.
	
	
	
	
Enhanced Stop: When making a stop attempt with 	
	
	
	
	
this steamjack, roll 2 additional boost dice.
Magno-Grip 	
Enhanced Grinder Hold: While within this 	 	
	
	
	
	
steamjack’s reach, the Grinder gains +1 Armor 	
	
	
	
	
against opposing steamjacks’ attacks. When making a 	
	
	
	
	
stop attempt with this steamjack, roll 1 additional 	
	
	
	
	
boost die.
Scrambler	
Shock: The hit target cannot be moved away from the 	
	
	
	
	
attacker. A hit steamjack is rattled. 
Gyro Shot 	
Grappler	
Pull: This arm’s attack hits only when the attack roll 	
	
	
	
	
has at least 2 strikes above the target’s Armor. Instead
	
	
	
	
of moving the hit target, place it in a space within this
	
	
	
	
steamjack’s reach that is not within an opposing 	
	
	
	
	
steamjack’s reach.
RUNNER ARMS
CRUSHER ARMS
SCRAMBLER
GYRO SHOT
INTERCEPTOR
MAGNO-GRIP
GRAPPLER
PULVERIZER
HEAVY GRAPPLER
HEAVY GYRO SHOT
WRECK-O-MATIC
FISTS
HEAVY FISTS
	
ATTACK	
TYPE	
ABILITIES
Heavy Fist 	
Enhanced Grip: This steamjack can make a body 	
	
	
	
	
slam or throw power attack with this arm. 
	
	
	
	
Two-Hand Bonus: If this steamjack has two Heavy 	
	
	
	
	
Fists, roll 1 additional boost die when making a 	
	
	
	
	
body slam or throw power attack with it.
Pulverizer	
H3	
Wreck-o-Matic	
Hard Hit: If you roll 1 or more super strikes in the 	
	
	
	
	
attack, the hit steamjack is knocked down. 
Heavy Grappler 	
H3	
Pull: This arm’s attack hits only when the attack roll 
	
	
	
	
has at least 2 strikes above the target’s Armor. Instead 	
	
	
	
	
of moving the hit target, place it in a space within this 	
	
	
	
	
steamjack’s reach that is not within an opposing 	
	
	
	
	
Heavy Gyro Shot	

The second number is noted by a star H. This is the number 
of boost dice you must roll when attacking with the arm. You 
cannot choose to roll fewer boost dice than listed.
Example: The Fist arm has an Attack stat of 3/H1. When you attack 
with this arm, you can roll between 1 and 3 action dice and you must roll 
1 boost die.
Arm Abilities
There’s more to a steamjack arm than its Attack stat. Most arms 
also have abilities that enable the steamjacks to play by their 
own rules at least part of the time. The mechanical lifeblood 
of any Grind team, arm abilities can take the strengths of your 
steamjacks right into the face of the opposition.
Each arm ability affects the game in a different way, so pay 
as much attention to the ones your opponent is using as to 
your own!
PLAYING THE GAME 
Before the smashing and bashing can begin, each player gets 
his team ready to take down his opponent in the arena.
Team Construction
Each player chooses a team of five customizable 
steamjacks—the blue Iron Storm or the red Steel Fury—
and equips them with arms of that team’s color. Some 
arm abilities work together especially well and others fuel 
particular tactics, so plan your team’s strategy and weaponry 
together for the most brutal beatdowns.
Setting the Field
At the start of the game, each player makes an initiative 
roll with 5 action dice. The player who rolls the most strikes 
chooses who will be the first player of the first period. The 
player who is not chosen will be the first player of the second 
period. If both players roll the same number of strikes, reroll.
A game of Grind consists of two periods. These have five 
rounds of play, each with one turn taken by each player. 
At the start of each period, the players place 5 power dice 
on their clocks and set the field. The field will also be reset 
whenever a goal is scored.
To set the field, the first player of that period places the 
Grinder in the catch and his five steamjacks in his goal zone. 
The second player then places his five steamjacks in his goal 
zone. The steamjacks can be anywhere in their goal zones 
except in the goal pits.
The first player then begins the first period with the first 
turn. Play continues with turns alternating between each 
player for five rounds.
After five rounds, the first period of the game ends. Players 
place 5 power dice on their clocks and set the field for the 
second period. Remove all effect tokens.

The red Runner’s movement is hindered by a pillar it must move around.
Steamjack Activations
On your turn, you must activate each of your steamjacks on 
the playing field once, even if you choose not to do anything 
with it.
During a steamjack’s activation it can advance and/or make 
one attack. You can do this in whatever order you like: a 
steamjack can advance and then attack, attack and then 
advance, or just do one or the other. You can also choose not to 
advance or attack with it.
When you have resolved all your steamjacks’ activations your 
turn ends.
Ending Your Turn
When your turn ends, move all action dice still in your dice pool 
to your opponent’s dice pool. Leave any power dice remaining 
in your dice pool alone. It is then your opponent’s turn.
Scoring
When the Grinder moves into your opponent’s goal pit, you 
score a goal! The Grinder does not continue past the goal pit 
even if it has additional movement. Also, it doesn’t matter which 
team caused the Grinder to go into the goal pit; you score goals 
made in your opponent’s goal pit, and he scores goals made in 
yours. Don’t forget to move your goal token to the next number 
on your scoreboard whenever you score a goal.
The turn immediately ends when a goal is scored.
Reset the field and remove all effect tokens before the next 
player’s turn begins. The next player places the Grinder and 
his steamjacks first. After the field is reset, continue play.
Winning the Game
The team with the most goals at the end of the game wins!
Overtime: Sudden Death
If both teams have an equal number of goals after both 
periods are complete, the game goes into Sudden Death.
There is no clock in Sudden Death. Players begin with 5 
power dice in their dice pools.
Each player makes an initiative roll with 5 action dice. The 
player who rolls the most strikes chooses who will be the 
first player in Sudden Death, then players reset the field and 
the first player begins the first turn.
The first team to score a goal during Sudden Death wins!
MOVING ON
THE PLAYING FIELD
The most common type of movement in Grind is advancing. 
Each steamjack has a Speed stat indicating how many spaces it 
can move when it advances. An advancing steamjack can make 
straight moves (ahead, behind, left, or right) and diagonal 
moves (ahead to the left or right and behind to the left or right).
When counting spaces diagonally on the playing field, count 
the first diagonal as 1 space and each additional diagonal as 
2 spaces.
At the beginning of the period, you have 5 power dice on your game clock.
On your first turn of the period, you move 1 power die from your game clock to your 
dice pool. You then have 1 power die available for use during the turn.
During your first turn, you can use the 1 power die in your dice pool
and then place it in your dice well.
On your second turn of the period, move 1 power die from your game
clock and the power die in your dice well to your dice pool. You then have
2 power dice available for use during the turn.
Using 1 diagonal, the Runner can move 4 spaces to the space marked on the left.
Using 1 diagonal, the Runner can move 3 spaces to the space marked at the top.
Using 2 diagonals, the Runner can move 5 spaces to the space marked on the right.
Using 3 diagonals, the Runner can move 5 spaces to the space marked at the bottom.
Steamjacks, the Grinder, the goal pits, the pillars, and the 
walls surrounding the playing field are obstructions. A 
steamjack cannot move through an obstruction or into a 
space occupied by an obstruction.
Game Clock
At the beginning of each period, place 5 power dice on your 
game clock. At the start of your first turn, move 1 power die 
from your game clock to your dice pool. That power die can 
be used that turn; if you use it, move it to your dice well. The 
number of power dice left on the game clock shows how 
many turns you have left during the period.
At the start of your second through fifth turns of a period, 
move 1 more power die from your game clock to your dice 
pool; also move any power dice in your dice well to your dice 
pool. With each turn of a period, you will get more power dice 
to use to enhance your steamjacks as the action heats up.

Toward & Away
Some game effects require the Grinder or a steamjack to 
move toward or away from a specific space. For these effects, 
it is not just where the movement ends that matters; you 
must check each individual space in the path against the 
movement requirements.
When moving toward a space, each space the Grinder or 
steamjack enters must decrease the number of spaces between 
the Grinder or steamjack and that space.
When moving away from a space, each space the Grinder or 
steamjack enters must increase the number of spaces between 
the Grinder or steamjack and that space.
Adjacent
The term adjacent describes something in a space next to or 
immediately diagonal to a figure or space.
Runners can advance up to 6 spaces.
Crushers can advance up to 4 spaces.
The shaded spaces show how to count two of the possible paths the Grinder
can take toward the marked space.
An arrow on each steamjack icon indicates its facing. 
These Crushers are facing away from each other.
As the path is chosen toward the marked space, only one straight direction and one 
diagonal direction is available. Once the straight direction 
 is taken, the other 
three— , 
, and —are no longer available. Once the diagonal direction 
 is taken, 
the other three—
, 
, and 
—are no longer available.
The blue Runner is adjacent to the blue Crusher.
The blue Crusher is adjacent to both the blue Runner and the red Runner.
The red Runner is adjacent to the blue Crusher.
The red Crusher is not adjacent to any other steamjack.
Steamjack Facing
A steamjack faces one of the four sides of the space it 
occupies. The front of the steamjack indicates which side it is 
facing. Steamjacks cannot face diagonally. In these diagrams 
an arrow on the steamjack icons indicates their facing.
Facing is important for reach and blocking, but it does not 
affect movement.
You can change a steamjack’s facing anytime during its 
activation, as many times as you wish. Once its activation is 
over, a steamjack’s facing cannot change until its next activation 
unless it is hit by an attack (see “Basic Attacks,” p. 9). 
BLUE RUNNER
The path a Grinder or steamjack takes when moving toward 
or away from a space can include only one straight direction 
(ahead, left, or right) and only one diagonal direction 
(ahead to the left or ahead to the right). The chosen straight 
direction and diagonal direction can be in any combination, 
or the path can use just one of them.

Steamjack Reach & Blocking
The 3 spaces in front of a steamjack—the one it faces and the 
ones on either side of that space—are within its reach. Many 
weapons and abilities depend on a target being within a 
A steamjack blocks every opposing steamjack within its 
reach, which means none of those steamjacks can begin 
or continue its advance unless it makes a successful block 
break (see below).
Redlining
At the end of your steamjack’s advance, you can redline it to 
give it one last burst of speed. Be careful, though: steamjacks 
can overheat. An overheating steamjack is rattled (see 
“Rattled” below).
RESOLVING A REDLINE:
1. After advancing the active steamjack, declare the redline.
2. Advance the active steamjack up to 2 additional spaces.
3. Roll at least 1 action die from your dice pool. You can roll a 
number of action dice up to the active steamjack’s Boiler stat (3 
for a Runner and 2 for a Crusher). Power dice can be added to 
the redline roll.
4. If the number of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than 
the number of spaces the active steamjack advanced while 
redlining, continue its activation as normal.
5. If the number of strikes rolled is less than the number of spaces 
the active steamjack advanced while redlining, its activation 
immediately ends. Place a rattled effect token on the steamjack. 
It is rattled until the end of its next activation.
Example: You advance your Crusher 4 spaces, just out of reach of the 
Grinder. Since your Crusher has only melee arms, you decide to redline 
it so you can get in a crucial attack on the Grinder. You declare the 
redline and advance your Crusher 1 space. The Crusher has a Boiler stat 
of 2, so you can roll up to 2 action dice for your redline roll. You choose 
to roll 1 action die and roll a strike. You rolled at least as many strikes 
as your Crusher advanced while redlining, so your Crusher does not 
overheat and can now attack the Grinder.
Rattled
When an attack or effect causes a steamjack 
to become rattled, place a rattled effect token 
on its base.
A rattled steamjack does not block opposing 
steamjacks. You cannot roll any boost dice or power dice for 
a rattled steamjack.
Immediately after a rattled steamjack completes its 
activation, remove the rattled effect token from its base—it is 
no longer rattled.
The shaded spaces are within the blue Crusher’s reach.
The red Crusher and blue Crusher are within each 
other’s reach, so they are blocking each other.
The red Runner is within the blue Runner’s reach. The 
blue Runner is blocking the red Runner.
The red Runner does not have another steamjack within 
its reach. No steamjack blocks the red Runner.
Block Breaks
A blocked steamjack can attempt to break a specific block 
only once per activation, but it can do this for as many blocks 
as it has action dice to spend. (Put spent action dice in your 
opponent’s dice pool.)
The blue Runner must make block breaks when advancing from the numbered spaces. 
The number indicates the number of strikes needed to make a successful block break.
RESOLVING A BLOCK BREAK:
1. Before your active steamjack leaves a space in range of an 
opposing steamjack, declare the block break.
2. Roll at least 1 action die from your dice pool. You can roll a 
number of action dice up to the active steamjack’s Armor stat. 
Power dice can be added to the block break roll.
3. If the number of strikes rolled is less than the number of 
opposing steamjacks blocking the advancing steamjack, the 
block break fails and the steamjack’s advance immediately ends.
4. If the number of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than 
the number of opposing steamjacks blocking the advancing 
steamjack, the block break succeeds and the steamjack can 
continue its advance.

Knocked Down
When an attack or effect causes a steamjack 
to be knocked down, place a knocked down 
effect token on its base.
A knocked down steamjack does not have 
reach and does not block line of sight. It can still be the 
target of attacks and is still an obstacle
on the field, though.
When you activate a knocked down steamjack, you must 
forfeit either its advance or its attack. The steamjack then 
stands up, and you can change its facing to any direction. 
Remove the knocked down effect token from its base and 
continue its activation normally.
GENERAL ATTACK RULES
You and your opponent could play bumper-’jacks all 
day, but the metal really starts to fly when the bashing 
begins! To make most attacks, decide which of the active 
steamjack’s arms you will use and choose a target within its 
line of sight, then roll to see if the attack hits.
Targeting
When your steamjack makes an attack, select an opposing 
steamjack or the Grinder as the target. The target must meet 
all the targeting requirements for the particular attack and 
you must be able to resolve the attack legally, or you can’t 
make the attack.*
Melee or control arms can be used to target the Grinder or an 
opposing steamjack within the attacking steamjack’s reach.
Ranged arms can target the Grinder or an opposing 
steamjack 2 or 3 spaces away, as long as the attacking 
steamjack has line of sight to the target. Count the spaces 
toward the target from the attacker.
Line of Sight
Line of sight is a line that can be traced from a steamjack’s 
space to another space. To trace line of sight from a 
steamjack’s space, draw a straight line from the center of 
the side it faces to the center of any side of the other space. 
If this line passes through any part of a space occupied by 
the Grinder, a pillar, or a steamjack, your steamjack does not 
have line of sight. Otherwise, you have line of sight for a 
ranged attack against a target in the other space. A steamjack 
that has been knocked down does not block line of sight.
BASIC ATTACKS
Attack opposing steamjacks to muck up their plans, push 
them out of your way, or send them crashing into an 
obstacle. Attack the Grinder to move it to your opponent’s 
goal pit—or into one of his steamjacks.
Charge Boost
If a steamjack begins its activation with at least 1 space 
between it and the target of its first basic melee attack that 
activation, it gains a charge boost on that attack. When your 
steamjack has a charge boost, it gains 1 extra boost die.
A steamjack cannot gain a charge boost if it pushed the 
Grinder that activation (see “Pushing the Grinder,” p. 12). 
It’s focused on maneuvering the Grinder down the playing 
field, not on delivering extra force to an attack.
Attacking Steamjacks
You can attack your opponent’s steamjacks to smash them 
around and clear the way to the goal pit. 
RESOLVING A BASIC ATTACK
AGAINST A STEAMJACK:
1. Declare the attack, the target steamjack, and the arm your 
2. Determine the dice you will roll for the attack, including at 
least 1 action die from your dice pool. You can roll a number of 
action dice up to the first number in the attacking arm’s Attack 
stat. You must also roll boost dice equal to the second number 
in the arm’s Attack stat. The steamjack can receive additional 
boost dice from abilities or other effects. You can also add any 
number of power dice from your dice pool to the attack roll.
3. Roll your dice for the attack. If the number of strikes rolled 
is less than the target steamjack’s Armor, the attack misses. 
If the number of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than the 
steamjack’s Armor, the attack hits.
4. If the attack hit, subtract the target steamjack’s Armor stat 
from the number of strikes you rolled. You can move the hit 
steamjack up to that many spaces away from the attacker (see 
“Toward & Away,” p. 7).
5. If the attack hit, you can change the target steamjack’s facing.
Example: The Runner arm Fist has an attack stat of 3/H1. When 
making a basic attack with this arm, you can roll between 1 and 3 action 
dice. You must also roll 1 boost die. In contrast, the Crusher arm Heavy 
Fist has an attack stat of 4/H2. When making a basic attack with this 
arm, you can roll between 1 and 4 action dice and must roll 2 boost dice. 
You can add power dice to either attack.
* There’s no room in the screaming metal world of Grind for do-overs, so you can make attacks only if their effects are legal. For example, just as you can’t pick up
the Grinder to move it if there’s no new space for it to be moved to, you can’t target it with an arm that has the Pull ability if there’s nowhere for it to go.
The blue Runner does not have line of sight to the red Crusher. The 
blue Runner has line of sight to the Grinder and the red Runner.
The blue Runner can use its melee arm to target an opposing steamjack or 
the Grinder occupying a dark space. If the blue Runner is not blocked, it can 
target an opposing steamjack or the Grinder occupying a light space.

Clipping
A steamjack hit by a basic attack from a steamjack that 
occupies the space directly behind it is knocked down.
Grinder Momentum
The harder the Grinder is hit, the more momentum it gains. 
A high momentum increases the Grinder’s chances of 
rumbling past opposing steamjacks or even knocking them 
down (see “Collisions,” p. 11). A low momentum makes 
the Grinder easier to intercept with a stop attempt (see 
“Stopping the Grinder,” p. 11). 
To determine the Grinder’s momentum, count the number 
of spaces from the Grinder’s beginning space to the marked 
space. If that number is less than the number of strikes rolled 
above the Grinder’s Armor to move it, the difference is the 
Grinder’s momentum. If the number of spaces to the marked 
space is greater than or equal to the number of strikes rolled 
above its Armor, the Grinder’s momentum is 0.
The Grinder’s momentum remains constant for the duration 
of its movement.
Examples: You declare an attack against the Grinder while it is in the open 
and mark a space 4 spaces away from the Grinder. You roll 7 strikes on the 
attack roll, so the Grinder has a momentum of 3 (7 strikes – 4 spaces). Most 
steamjacks would have a difficult time stopping the Grinder.
You declare an attack against the Grinder while an opposing Runner 
with Control 2 has the Grinder in its reach. You mark a space 4 spaces 
away from the Grinder. You roll 7 strikes on the attack roll, so the 
Grinder has a momentum of just 1 (7 strikes – 2 Armor – 4 spaces). 
Most steamjacks would have little trouble stopping the Grinder.
Grinder Movement in the Gutter
When the Grinder enters the gutter as a result of an attack, 
it completes its movement within the gutter. Its path to the 
gutter determines whether the attacking player can choose 
which direction it rolls.
If the Grinder’s path to the gutter contained at least one 
diagonal but it does not enter the gutter in a corner, it 
continues to move away from the attacker for the rest of its 
movement. It does not stop when it reaches the marked space.
If the Grinder’s entire path is perpendicular to the gutter or 
it enters the gutter in the corner, the attacking player chooses 
the direction it continues to move in the gutter.
The red Crusher hits the blue Runner with an attack that rolls 5 strikes (3 above the 
blue Runner’s Armor). The red Crusher’s controller moves the blue Runner 3 spaces 
away from the red Crusher, then changes the blue Runner’s facing.
A red Runner is directly behind a blue Crusher. If the red Runner hits the blue 
Crusher with a basic attack, the blue Crusher is knocked down.
Attacking the Grinder
Attacking the Grinder is one of the best ways to move it. 
When you do this, you will choose the space you want it to 
move to and then try to smash it hard enough to get it there.
RESOLVING A BASIC ATTACK
AGAINST THE GRINDER:
1. Declare the attack, the Grinder as its target, and the arm your 
2. Choose a space in the attacker’s line of sight that you would 
like to move the Grinder to with the attack. When choosing this 
space ignore obstructions other than the attacking steamjack. The 
Grinder must be able to move toward the chosen space and away 
from the attacker using no more than one straight direction and 
one diagonal direction. These must be the same directions you 
used to determine that the Grinder is in range of the attack. (If 
you used only a straight direction or only a diagonal direction to 
confirm range, you can make your choice for the other one now.) 
Place the mark token on the chosen space.
3. Determine the dice you will roll for the attack, including at 
least 1 action die from your dice pool. You must also roll boost 
dice equal to the second number in the arm’s Attack stat. The 
Grinder can receive additional boost dice from abilities or other 
effects. You can also add any number of power dice from your 
dice pool to the attack roll.
4. Roll your dice for the attack. If the number of strikes rolled is 
less than the Grinder’s Armor, the attack misses. If the number 
of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than the Grinder’s Armor, 
the attack hits.
5. If the attack hits, subtract the Grinder’s Armor stat from the 
number of strikes you rolled. You can move the Grinder up to 
that number of spaces toward the marked space (see “Toward 
and Away,” p. 7). The Grinder’s movement ends if it moves 
into the marked space.
6. Remove the mark token from the playing field.
A player declares the red Crusher’s attack against the Grinder and marks a space 
5 spaces away. The red Crusher hits the Grinder with an attack that rolls 4 strikes. 
(The Grinder has an Armor rating of 0 because it is not being held by an opposing 
steamjack.) The player moves the Grinder 4 spaces toward the marked space.
MARK

Collisions
Some attacks create collisions when an obstacle hinders the 
movement of the Grinder or a steamjack. When this happens, 
place the moving Grinder or steamjack in the last space of its 
path it could occupy before the collision occurred.
When a moving steamjack collides with a wall, a pillar, or 
the Grinder, that steamjack is knocked down (see “Knocked 
Down,” p. 9).
When the moving Grinder collides with a steamjack and 
the Grinder’s momentum is equal to or greater than the 
steamjack’s Armor, that steamjack is knocked down.
Holding the Grinder
When the Grinder is targeted by an opposing steamjack, 
you can choose one of your steamjacks that has reach on the 
Grinder to hold it. The Armor stat of the Grinder increases 
by an amount equal to the holding steamjack’s Control stat 
(the number of control arms it has plus any additional Armor 
granted by abilities). 
GRINDER CONTROL
A steamjack equipped with a control arm has several ways to 
manipulate the Grinder.
Stopping the Grinder
During your opponent’s turn, you can attempt to stop the 
Grinder when it begins to move from a space within reach of 
one or more of your steamjacks equipped with a control arm.
To try to stop the Grinder, roll against its momentum.
RESOLVING A STOP ATTEMPT:
1. Before the Grinder moves from a space within your steamjack’s 
reach, declare the stop attempt. If the Grinder has no 
momentum, it is automatically stopped (skip to step 4).
2. Roll a number of boost dice equal to the total Control of your 
steamjacks that have the Grinder within reach. You can add 
power dice from your dice pool to the stop roll if you wish.
3. If the number of strikes rolled is less than the Grinder’s 
momentum, the Grinder continues its movement as normal. 
If the number of strikes rolled is equal to or higher than 
the Grinder’s momentum, the Grinder is stopped and its 
movement ends.
4. You can move the stopped Grinder 1 space in any direction. 
This space does not have any reach requirements.
The Grinder continues its movement away from the attacker and then follows the gutter.
The player who attacked the Grinder chooses the direction of its remaining movement.
The red Crusher hits the blue Runner with an attack that rolls 5 strikes (3 above the 
blue Runner’s Armor 2 stat). The blue Runner is moved 3 spaces away from the red 
Crusher. The Runner’s movement is hindered by a pillar, so a collision occurs, and the 
Runner is knocked down in the previous space.
The red Crusher targets the Grinder with an attack and marks the space occupied by 
the blue Runner. The red Crusher hits the Grinder with an attack that rolls 6 strikes. 
The Grinder’s movement is hindered by the blue Runner, so it collides with the blue 
Runner. Since the Grinder’s momentum is 2 (equal to the blue Runner’s Armor), the 
blue Runner is knocked down.
The blue Crusher targets the Grinder with an attack and marks the goal pit. The goal 
pit is 8 spaces from the Grinder. The blue Crusher hits the Grinder with an attack that 
rolls 10 strikes. The Grinder has a momentum of 2. To stop the Grinder successfully, 
the red player must roll at least 2 strikes in the stop attempt.
The space with 
 is within the reach of two red Runners and a red Crusher with a 
total of 4 Control all together. Before the Grinder moves from that space, the red player 
can make a stop attempt using 4 boost dice. 
The space with 
 is within reach of a red Runner which is equipped with an 
Interceptor control arm. This arm has the Enhanced Stop ability, which adds 2 boost 
dice to the stop roll. Before the Grinder moves from that space, the red player can make 
a stop attempt using 3 boost dice (1 for the control arm + 2 for Enhanced Stop).
The Grinder is within the reach of the blue 
Runner, the blue Crusher, and the red 
Crusher. The red Crusher has one control 
arm, the Fist. When a blue steamjack targets 
the Grinder, the red Crusher can be chosen 
to hold the Grinder, granting it +1 Armor 
against the attack. The blue Crusher has no 
control arms, but the blue Runner has one 
control arm, the Magno-Grip, which has the 
Enhanced Grinder Hold ability granting 
+1 Armor to the Grinder when it is within 
reach. When a red steamjack targets the 
Grinder, the blue Runner can be chosen 
to hold the Grinder, granting it +2 Armor 
against the attack.
GOAL PIT

POWER ATTACKS
When a steamjack makes a power attack, the attack roll must 
contain at least 1 power die.
Combo
Your steamjack uses both its arms to deliver a devastating 
combination!
When a steamjack performs a combo power attack, it can 
make any basic attack with each of its arms. You must 
add a least 1 power die to the first attack roll. (The two 
attacks do not have to be against the same target, and the 
two arms do not have to be the same type. You can make 
a combo power attack made up of a melee attack and a 
ranged attack, for example.)
RESOLVING A COMBO POWER ATTACK:
1. Declare the combo power attack and which arm is used for 
which attack.
2. Resolve the first attack (see “Basic Attacks,” p. 9).
3. If the arm chosen for the second attack cannot legally make 
an attack, the combo attack ends. Otherwise, resolve the 
second attack. 
Pushing the Grinder
During its advance, a steamjack equipped with a control 
arm can push the Grinder. The Grinder must be within 
that steamjack’s reach and not within reach of any 
opposing steamjacks.
While pushing the Grinder, a steamjack cannot advance into 
or out of a space within an opposing steamjack’s reach.
RESOLVING A PUSH ON THE GRINDER:
1. Declare the push on the Grinder and remove it from the 
playing field.
2. Complete the pushing steamjack’s advance.
3. Place the Grinder in an unoccupied space adjacent to the 
pushing steamjack and not within reach of an opposing 
steamjack.
4. Change the pushing steamjack’s facing so the Grinder is within 
its reach.
As the blue Runner equipped with a control arm advances, its controller removes the 
Grinder from the board. After the blue Runner completes its advance, its controller 
must place the Grinder within its reach but not within reach of an opposing steamjack.
The red Crusher’s controller declares the combo power attack during its 
activation. For his first attack, he chooses to use the red Crusher’s Fist and targets 
an opposing steamjack within the red Crusher’s reach. The first attack hits, and 
the red Crusher’s controller moves the opposing steamjack away from his red 
Crusher. Then, he can legally make a second attack with the red Crusher’s Gyro 
Shot against the Grinder, so he does.
Throw
Your steamjack picks up another steamjack or the Grinder and 
throws it through the air.
A steamjack must have an arm that allows a throw in order 
to make a throw power attack. The target steamjack or 
Grinder must be within the attacker’s reach and have an 
equal or lesser Armor stat. (Momentum and stopping rules 
still apply as normal.)
RESOLVING A THROW POWER ATTACK:
1. Declare the throw power attack, its target, and the arm your 
2. Determine the direction of the throw by choosing a space 
within 5 spaces of the attacker and in its line of sight, ignoring 
obstructions other than the attacker. The chosen space must 
be farther from the attacker than the target is. Place the mark 
token on the chosen space.
3. Determine the dice you will roll for the attack, including at 
least 1 power die from your dice pool. You can add any number 
of power dice from your dice pool to the attack roll.
4. Roll dice for the attack. If the number of strikes rolled is less 
than the target’s Armor, the attack misses. If the number of 
strikes rolled is equal to or greater than the target’s Armor, the 
attack hits.
5. If the attack hits, subtract the target’s Armor from the number 
of strikes you rolled. That is the number of spaces you can 
move the target. During this movement, the target can move 
through spaces occupied by obstructions, but it cannot end 
its movement in an occupied space. If the marked space is 
occupied by an obstruction, the thrown steamjack or Grinder 
can collide with that obstruction. (The rules for momentum and 
stopping the Grinder still apply as normal.)
6. If the attack hit, you can change the target steamjack’s facing.
The red player declares a throw power attack by the red Crusher against the Grinder, 
marking a space 5 spaces away from the Grinder. The hit Grinder can move through 
the spaces occupied by blue Crushers.
MARK
You cannot place the Grinder in the goal pit as part of a push 
when the pushing steamjack ends its advance in one of the 
three spaces behind the backboard.

Body Slam
Your steamjack picks up another steamjack and slams it into the 
arena floor.
A steamjack must have an arm that allows a body slam 
in order to make a body slam power attack. The target 
steamjack must be adjacent to the attacker.
RESOLVING A BODY SLAM POWER ATTACK:
1. Declare the body slam power attack, its target, and the arm 
your steamjack is using.
2. Determine the dice you will roll for the attack, including at least 
1 power die from your dice pool. You can add any number of 
power dice from your dice pool to the attack roll.
3. Roll dice for the attack. If the number of strikes rolled is 
less than the target steamjack’s Armor, the attack misses. If 
the number of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than the 
steamjack’s Armor, the attack hits.
4. If the attack hits, place the target steamjack in a new, 
unoccupied space adjacent to the attacker.
5. The hit steamjack is knocked down.
CALLING PLAYS
Once on each of your turns, you can call a play to give your 
team an edge. You cannot call any play other than Hit & Rip 
during a steamjack’s activation. To call a play, state the play 
you are calling, follow its requirements, and then apply its 
effects. If you cannot meet all its requirements, you cannot 
call the play.
CLEAR PATH
Choose one of your Runners. When you advance that 
Runner, it is not blocked by your opponent’s steamjacks that 
are in your Crushers’ reach. 
HAIL MARY
Choose one of your steamjacks that can make a throw power 
attack. If the chosen steamjack makes a throw power attack 
against the Grinder during its activation, you can mark a 
space up to 7 spaces away from the attacker instead of 5. The 
marked space must be within reach of a friendly steamjack.
HIT & RIP
Unlike other plays, Hit & Rip must be called during a 
steamjack’s activation. To call this play you must have just 
hit an opposing steamjack that had reach on the Grinder 
with a basic attack and the Grinder must be within range of 
that attack.
After resolving the first attack but before moving the dice 
used for it, use the same dice to make an attack of the same 
type against the Grinder.
HUSTLE BACK
Make a Hustle Back roll with 2 boost dice. You can add 
power dice from your dice pool to the roll. Choose a number 
of your steamjacks up to the number of strikes rolled. You 
cannot choose steamjacks that are rattled or knocked down.
Advance each chosen steamjack a number of spaces up 
to its Speed in the direction of your goal zone. As with a 
normal advance, you can change the facing of each of those 
steamjacks if you wish. This advance does not count against 
the steamjack’s activation. 
ISOLATION
Choose one of your Runners. When you advance that 
Runner, you can roll 2 extra boost dice when redlining. The 
Runner must begin its activation at least 4 spaces away from 
any of your other steamjacks. 
PROTECT
For the rest of the turn, you can add 2 boost dice to attack 
rolls against opposing steamjacks in your goal zone or within 
2 spaces of it.
SLINGSHOT
For the rest of the turn, your Crushers that can make throw 
power attacks can target your own Runners with them.
 
The red player declares a body slam 
power attack by the red Crusher 
against the blue Crusher.
The body slam power attack hits, 
and the red player places the blue 
Crusher in an empty space adjacent 
to the red Crusher. The blue Crusher 
is knocked down.
RESOLVING A STEAMROLL POWER ATTACK:
1. Declare the steamroll power attack.
2. Determine the dice you will roll for the attack, including at 
least 1 power die and 1 action die from your dice pool. You can 
roll a number of action dice up to the active steamjack’s Armor. 
You can add any number of power dice from your dice pool to 
the attack roll.
3. Roll dice for the attack. For each affected steamjack, if the 
number of strikes rolled is less than its Armor, the attack 
misses. If the number of strikes rolled is equal to or greater than 
its Armor, the attack hits.
4. One at a time, in any order you choose, you can move each hit 
steamjack 1 space in any direction.
5. You can change the facing of each hit steamjack.
The red player declares the steamroll 
power attack by the red Crusher. All 
the opposing blue steamjacks are 
affected by the attack.
The attack roll has 3 strikes. That is 
enough to hit the blue Runners but 
not the blue Crushers, which have an 
Armor of 4. The red player chooses 
to move each of the hit Runners 1 
space and changes their facing.
RUNNERS
Steamroll
Your steamjack overpowers all nearby opposing steamjacks.
To make a steamroll power attack, the attacking steamjack 
must be adjacent to two or more opposing steamjacks. The 
steamroll effcts all opposing steamjacks adjacent to the attacker.
You do not choose an arm of the active steamjack for this attack.
You now have the tools to conquer the Destructodome.

www.privateerpress.com
TM