Core Rulebook
R
Season 4
Version 4 .1 - updated 1st March 2019
®

Contents
Guild Ball was designed and created by
Mat Hart & Richard Loxam
Published by
Steamforged Games Ltd.
Development Team
David Carl, Alex Hall, Mat Hart, Bryce Johnston, 
Steve Margetson, Jamie Perkins
Lawyer’s Guild
Owen Bell, Richard Ford, Andrew Massoura, 
Tim Wyatt
Steamforged Team
Charles Agel, Christine Agel, Tim Akker, 
Mike Appleton, Michael Archer, Edward Ball, 
Sean Dooley, Matt Elliott, David Fear, 
Helen Finney, John Ford, Tristan Freer, 
Jamie Giblin, Rachel Hall, John Hockey, 
Charlotte Holland, Rich Jennings, Ronan Kelly, 
Adam King, Andrew Lyon, Louis Moore, 
Sam Page, Aitch Parker, Luke Pitter, Greg Plail, 
David Pownall, Firoz Rana, Gareth Reid, 
Tom Rochford, Danni Simmonds, Zach Stein, 
Jak Thraves, Matt Warren, Paul Waters
Lead Writer
Sherwin Matthews
Illustrations
Doug Telford & Marc Molnar
Sculpting
Russ Charles, Ben Charles, Tom Lishman
Studio Painter
Angel Giraldez, Studio Giraldez
Graphic Design & Layout
Tom Hutchings, Abigail Thornton
Editing
Darla Kennerud
And special thanks to…
Andrea, Tom, Katherine, 
and Jake Claire, Steve, Lorraine, and Blue
...& all of the amazing Pundits and the 
rest of the Guild Ball community around 
the world.
Playtesting
Joey Addison
Zi Baxter
Dorian Bernet
Benedikt Bliestle
Owen Carmichael
Dominik de Cassan
Henry Clark
Stephen Easton
Jason Enos
William Fitzmaurice
Tobias Ford
Matt Graham
Jesse Heis
Alexander Horn
Robert Hurlbut
Alasdair Johnstone
Daniel Knauss
Martin Koch
John Layfield
Derek Ledbetter
James Long
Phil Manwaring
Fraser McFetridge
Richard McHale
Anna Morley
Amanda Morris
Brandon Morris
Christoph Mueckenheim
Michael Myers
Tom Pickard
Jens Remane
Daniel Schmidtke
Werner Schosser
Hayden Sheehan
Tim Wischniowski
Copyright © 2015-2018 Steamforged Games Ltd. All rights reserved. 
No part of this book shall be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, 
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information 
retrieval system without written permission of the publisher.
Although every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher and 
author assume no responsibility for errors or omissions. Neither is any liability assumed for 
damages resulting from the use of this information contained herein.
Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Stats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Character Traits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Base Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Melee Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Model Type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Game Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Preparing for a Game . . . . . . . . . 6
How to Win . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Pre-Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Picking a Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Setting Up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Kick Off . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Pre-Game Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Playing the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Game Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Conventions of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Distance Measuring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Line of Sight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Tokens and Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Normal Turn Sequence . . . . . . 11
Recovery Levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Advancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Repositioning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Target Number Tests . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
TN Modifiers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
The Ball Marker . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Possession of the Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Snap To . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Kicking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Passing the Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Shooting at Goal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Kicking Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Goal Kicks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Scattering the Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Interception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Throw-Ins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Making an Attack . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Engaging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Attack Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Common Attack 
Bonuses and Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Playbook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Parting Blow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Character Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Common Character Play 
Bonuses and Penalties . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Area of Effect (AOE) Character Plays . . 21
Ongoing Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Heroic and Legendary Plays . . . . . . 22
Momentum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Gaining Momentum . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Using Momentum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Terrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Types of Terrain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Comprehensive 
Timing Sequences . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28

Core Rules
Welcome to Guild Ball, the dynamic and fast-paced 
game of mob football. Set against the backdrop of 
the Empire of the Free Cities, a cutthroat land ruled 
by powerful mercantile guilds, Guild Ball is a game 
of high stakes and careful strategy which rewards 
those ready to take a risk. But be wary. There are 
always other new coaches, young bloods just like 
you, ready to take to the ﬁ eld and show no mercy.
Already your players are expectantly looking to you 
for guidance. Only you can rise to the challenge 
and take your team to victory. Are you going to 
take home the title for your guild this year? Are 
you ready to hear your name echoing through the 
stands, shouted in the roar of a thousand voices? 
Time to lace up your boots and ﬁ nd out!
Download Guild Ball Manager 
from the App Store or Google Play

Models
All models in Guild Ball have a profi le card. An example of a model’s profi le card is shown 
here, along with an explanation of the skills and stats that appear on it. During a turn, a 
model may gain or suff er modifi ers to its stats. Apply these modifi ers immediately and 
cumulatively.
Stats
i Movement [MOV]
Shown as two distances, e.g., 6"/8" MOV.
The fi rst distance is the base move and is the 
distance a model may travel during a jog.
The second distance is the max move and 
is the distance a model may travel during 
a sprint or charge.
ii Tactical Ability [TAC]
Shown as a single number, e.g., 4 TAC.
This is the number of dice a model generates 
and adds to the dice pool when attacking.
iii Ball Skills and 
Kicking Ability [KICK]
Shown as a number and a distance, e.g., 
3/8" KICK.
The number is the base kick stat and is the 
number of dice a model generates and adds 
to the dice pool when performing a kick.
The distance is the kick distance that a 
model may kick the ball.
iv Defensive Ability [DEF]
Shown as a single number, e.g., 4+ DEF.
This is the target number that an attacking 
model rolls against when targeting a 
model. The + indicates that each die rolled 
must meet or exceed the number listed.
v Armour Value [ARM]
Shown as a single number, e.g., 1 ARM.
This is the number of hits deducted from 
a successful attack made against a model.
vi Influence [INF]
Shown as two numbers, e.g., 2/4 INF.
The fi rst number is the base INF and is the 
amount of infl uence a model generates 
each turn during the Maintenance Phase.
The second number is the max INF and 
is the maximum amount of infl uence a 
model may be allocated.
Infl uence is spent by a model during its 
activation to perform actions.
vii Character Traits
Models have a number of special abilities 
they may use during the game, collectively 
called character traits.
Passive character traits simply have 
an eff ect at all times when the defi ned 
requirements are satisfi ed.
Active character traits are actions and 
are marked with the 
 icon next to their 
names. Active character traits are eff ects 
that a player may choose whether to use 
during the model’s activation or when the 
defi ned requirements are satisfi ed. 
3/8"
4+
2/4
Melee Zone 1"
Super Shot
This model gains +1/+2" KICK.
Dirty Knives
2/
Target enemy model suffers –1 DEF, 1 DMG, 
and the poison condition.
Valentian, Human, Female, 
Striker, 
Squaddie
™ & © Steamforged Games LTD 2018
Character Traits
Above and Beyond
Each time this model scores a goal, it gains +1/+0 INF 
for the remainder of the game.
Charmed [Male]
This model gains +1 DEF against attacks and character 
plays made against it by the named model type.
 Unpredictable Movement
Once per turn when an enemy model ends an advance 
within this model’s melee zone, this model may 
immediately make a 2" dodge.
®
S4
Size 30 mm
vii
viii
ix
xii
ii iii iv
xi
v vi
Piper
Thresher

viii Health Points [HP]
A model’s health points, or HP, represents 
the total health of the model. This is shown 
on its card as a number of cells also known 
collectively as the health bar. Damage is 
referred to in the rules as a number, e.g., 
2 DMG. Damage is marked on the health 
bar from right to left, and current health is 
read from left to right. When one or more 
cells of a model’s health bar are marked, 
it is damaged. Once a model’s current 
health reaches 0 HP, it suff ers the taken 
out condition.
The health bar also shows the model’s 
recovery level, marked by a in one of 
the cells. This stat is used when the model 
recovers from being taken out and is 
returned to play. 
ix Plays
Models have a number of special skills, 
collectively called plays, they may use 
during the game. There are three types 
of plays: character plays, heroic plays, 
and legendary plays. Character plays are 
common, while heroic and legendary 
plays are rarer.
x Base Size
Guild Ball uses circular bases with 
diameters of 30 mm, 40 mm, and 50 mm.
xi Melee Zone
Every model has a melee zone. A model’s 
melee zone extends from the edge of its 
base out to the distance specifi ed by the 
number listed, e.g., 1". A model is never 
within its own melee zone.
xii Model Type
Every model has a number of types 
that defi ne aspects of the character it 
represents, such as nationality, playing 
position, and, if applicable, team position.
Some plays and character traits speciﬁ cally 
aff ect certain model types, so pay attention 
to them!
Farris
Veteran Hearne
Lucky
Ikaros
Game Plans
Game Plans represent your team’s Captain adapting to the changing fl ow of the game. 
Game Plans are dealt out at the start of the game, and are used in deciding who has 
initiative from Turn 2 onwards. Each Game Plan has the following parts:
a Name
b Text Effect
This may either be instantly resolved, 
or have an eff ect for the duration of the 
whole turn.
c Initiative Value 
This number is added to the momentum 
points (MP) left from last turn for each 
player. The Player with the highest total 
score decides who has initiative for the 
next turn.
d Influence Value 
This number is either added to or 
subtracted from the team’s infl uence pool 
for the turn.
Dig Deep
The friendly team gains [2] MP each 
time the enemy team scores a goal.
+2
+1
d
b

Preparing for a Game
How to Win
In a typical game of Guild Ball, the fi rst 
player to reach 12 victory points (VP) 
immediately wins the game. In the unlikely 
event of both players reaching 12 VP 
simultaneously, the game continues until 
one player has more VP than the other, at 
which point that player immediately wins 
the game. 
Goals! – A player gains 4 VP each time 
their team scores a goal.
Bodycount – A player gains 2 VP each 
time an enemy non-Mascot model suff ers 
the taken out condition. A player gains 
1 VP each time an enemy Mascot model 
suff ers the taken out condition.
Game Length
A game takes an average of around two 
hours to play. You may, of course, adjust the 
target VP win condition to play a longer or 
shorter game if you wish.
Game Size
Duration
Pitch Size
Team Size
VP Total
Introductory Game
30 mins
2' x 2'
2 Squaddie
6 VP
Quick Game
60 mins
3' x 3'
4 Squaddie
1 Mascot
8 VP
Typical Game
90—120 mins
3' x 3'
4 Squaddie
1 Mascot
12 VP
Pre-Game
Guild Ball is played between two teams of equal sizes. Players agree to a game size (based 
on the win condition and expected duration) before picking a guild to represent. They 
then select models from an extensive roster to make up their team for the game.
Picking a Team
In a typical game each team has six guild 
models, including a Captain and a Mascot. 
The most important member of a team is 
the Captain, who determines the team’s 
guild. A team may have only one model 
with the Captain type. A team may also 
have only one model with the Mascot type. 
The Mascot and all other models selected 
must be guild models; that is, they must 
be able to play for the same guild as the 
Captain. Each named character is unique 
and may be taken only once per team.
To pick a team:
1. Pick a model with the Captain type.
2. Pick a model with the Mascot type 
that may play for the same guild as 
the Captain model. Skip this step if 
playing an Introductory Game. 
3. Fill out the team roster with Squaddie 
models that may play for the same 
guild as the Captain model.
Squeak
Peck
Princess

Setting Up
In a typical game of Guild Ball, players play across a 3’ x 3’ playing surface that represents 
the pitch.
There may be any number of pieces of terrain on the pitch. Players must agree on the 
position and type of each piece before starting the game.
Prior to setting up teams, each player is dealt seven game plans from a shared 
deck. These cards are kept secret. After review, each player must discard two 
cards, leaving them with fi ve game plans in hand. Discarded game plan cards 
aren’t revealed.
For the fi rst few games we recommend 
that you don’t use any terrain pieces, in 
order to get used to the basic rules. Once 
you’ve mastered the basic rules, these 
elements add new twists to keep you on 
your toes in each and every match!
Players each make a starting roll of 1D6. 
Reroll any tied results. The player with 
the higher roll chooses which player will 
be the kicking player for the fi rst turn and 
which one will be the receiving player. 
Each goal is represented by a goalpost. 
Goalposts are always positioned in the 
centre of the deployment zone, with the 
front edge on the goal line. The kicking 
player decides which table edge to use for 
deployment and positions their goalpost.
The kicking player deploys their entire 
team completely within 10" of their 
chosen table edge. They declare one 
model as the kicker, and the kicker is given 
possession of the ball.
The receiving player uses the opposite 
table edge, positions their goalpost, and 
deploys their entire team, all in the same 
manner as the kicking player.
Kick Off
After 
both 
players 
have 
deployed 
their teams, the kicker may make a jog 
followed by a pass. These are the only 
two actions the kicker may perform 
during the kick off .
The kick off pass doesn’t cost influence 
and may not target a friendly model; 
it may only target a target spot on 
the pitch. See page 16 for how to kick 
to a target spot on the pitch.
After resolving the kick off , if the ball 
leaves the pitch or fi nishes within the 
kicking player’s half of the pitch, then the 
receiving player may give possession of 
the ball to any model on their team. After 
the kick off scatter is resolved, the ball 
may not snap to the kicker.
After the kick off has been resolved, the 
receiving player automatically has the 
initiative for the fi rst turn and so will be 
the fi rst player to activate a model.
Deployment Zone
Deployment Zone
Goal Line
Goal Line
Goal
Goal
10"
10"
Furnace
Crucible

Pre-Game Sequence
The specifi c sequence for a new game is:
1. Defi ne and agree on terrain.
2. Deal seven game plans to each player, 
face down.
3. Each player discards two game plans 
face down and retains fi ve cards. These 
are typically kept secret but may be 
revealed if desired.
4. Each player makes a starting roll of 
1D6. The player with the higher roll 
chooses whether to be the kicking 
player or the receiving player.
5. The kicking player chooses a table 
edge and positions their goalpost.
6. The kicking player completely deploys 
their team.
7. The kicking player gives possession 
of the ball to one of their models, 
designated as the kicker.
8. The receiving player takes the opposite 
table edge and deploys their goalpost 
and team.
9. The kicker performs a kick off . 
Determine the fi nal landing spot of the 
kick off and apply the results. Note that 
the kicker may still be allocated infl uence 
and activate as normal in the fi rst turn.
10. The receiving player automatically has 
the initiative for the fi rst turn. The 
kicking player's team gains 1 MP, and 
then the game begins.
11. The 
game 
continues 
from 
the 
Maintenance Phase of the Normal 
Turn Sequence.

Playing the Game
Game Terminology
Guild Ball uses a number of key phrases and terminology to define aspects of the game.
Definitions
A model, marker, or template is within a 
given distance when any part of the base 
or template is within that given distance, 
including touching.
model, 
marker, 
or 
template 
is 
completely within a given distance when 
the entire base or template is within that 
given distance, including touching.
A model, marker, or template is in base 
contact with a model, marker, or terrain 
piece if any part of the base or template is 
touching the model, marker, or terrain piece. 
A model enters when an advance, reposition, 
or placement of that model causes it to 
become within an aura, an ongoing effect 
AOE, terrain, or another effect.
Towards means that a model or marker 
may only move in such a way that the 
distance between the model or marker 
and the target is always decreasing.
Directly towards means that a model or 
marker must move along the line between 
the centre points of the model or marker 
and the target. Additionally, the distance 
between the model or marker and the 
target must always be decreasing.
Away means that a model or marker may 
move in any direction, but only in such a way 
that the distance between the origin and 
the model or marker is always increasing.
Directly away means that a model or 
marker must move along the line between 
the centre points of the model or marker 
and the target. Additionally, the distance 
between the model or marker and the 
target must always be increasing.
If a model is required to move towards, directly 
towards, away from, or directly away from a 
target/origin and becomes unable to do so 
(e.g., due to a blocking model, an obstruction, 
or a barrier), it immediately stops movement.
When a model or marker is placed, it hasn’t 
made an advance or reposition and isn’t 
considered to have moved. A model or marker 
may not be placed on a barrier or an obstruction, 
or with its base overlapping another model 
or marker’s base or the edge of the pitch.
Player refers to a person playing the game.
Controlling player refers to the person in 
control of the active model or goal kick.
A model’s activation occurs when that 
model is selected during the Activation 
Phase. A model’s activation consists of a 
single standard advance action and as many 
other actions as the model has resources to 
perform. A model may perform actions in 
any order, and, unless stated otherwise, an 
action may be repeated.
During a model’s activation, it’s the active 
model unless another model is performing an 
action. In all other instances where a model 
becomes the active model, it isn’t considered 
to be that model’s activation. There may be 
only one active model at a time.
An action is a movement, a kick, an attack, a 
character play, a heroic play, a legendary play, an 
active character trait, or any other ability that 
states ‘action’ in its description. A model may 
not interrupt an action with another action 
unless the description of the responding action 
includes the appropriate specific timing trigger.
When an action is described as once per 
turn, it may be used only once each turn 
regardless of whether it’s successful. Each 
individual model’s once-per-turn actions 
may be used once per turn per player.
A dice pool is a number of standard six-
sided dice (D6), collected together and 
used to determine the success of an action. 
A dice pool may never be reduced to zero.
An origin is a model that’s initiating an action.
Target model or marker is the model or marker 
targeted by an action. A model must have line 
of sight in order to target another model or 
marker with an action unless otherwise stated.
An enemy model or marker is a model or 
marker that belongs to the team opposing 
the active model.
A friendly model or marker is a model or 
marker that belongs to the same team as the 
active model. A model is friendly to itself.
A guild model is a friendly model whose 
guild is the same as the active model’s. 
An aura is an effect which is constantly 
active throughout its duration. Models 
within an aura are immediately affected 
by it. An aura extends from the edge of the 
model’s base out to the distance specified 
by the number listed. A model is affected 
by its own aura unless otherwise stated.
A pulse is an effect which affects only 
models within its range at the time it is 
triggered. A pulse has no duration. A pulse 
extends from the edge of the model’s 
base out to the distance specified by the 
number listed. A model is affected by its 
own pulse unless otherwise stated.
The halfway line describes the line across 
the middle of the pitch which runs parallel 
to each player’s table edge.
The goal line describes the line 6" from, and 
parallel to, each player’s respective table edge.
A goalpost is a specific piece of terrain 
represented by a 50 mm base or equivalent-
sized object. A goalpost is a barrier.
The ball is represented by a ball marker, 
which is a 30 mm base.
A target spot is any point on the pitch 
where the ball may be legally placed.
The ball path is a straight line, 30 mm 
wide, that the ball travels along.

Tokens and Markers
Tokens
Tokens don’t have a physical presence on 
the pitch. They’re simply put next to the 
relevant models to show which eff ects are 
in play on which model. 
Markers
Some plays and character traits require a 
marker to represent them on the pitch. 
Additionally, the ball is represented by a 
ball marker.
The location of a marker on the pitch is 
typically represented by a 30 mm, 40 mm, 
or 50 mm base. A model may move over a 
marker without impediment but may not end 
its movement overlapping a marker’s base.
Conventions of Play
Players are obliged to allow their opponent 
full access to all game information (e.g., 
specifi c model details, stats, and current 
eff ects) at any time. This doesn’t include 
unrevealed game plans.
Eff ects should always be marked with a 
suitable token next to the relevant model.
Bonuses and penalties from the same 
named sources aren’t cumulative. Eff ects 
and abilities of the same name aren’t 
cumulative. 
Rules as written in the rulebook are 
the default. However, rules written on 
a model’s card supersede rules written 
in the rulebook. Rules confl icts and 
timing are resolved as described in 
'Comprehensive Timing Sequences' on 
page 26.
Eff ects and abilities that trigger at the 
same timing step may be resolved in any 
order the controlling player chooses.
The rule of least disturbance generally 
applies only when attempting to place 
the ball. It means players must place the 
ball (or model, if relevant) as close to the 
correct location as is possible without 
moving or disturbing any other models, 
markers, or terrain pieces on the pitch.
When a reroll is required, all bonuses and 
penalties which applied to the original roll 
also apply to the reroll. Unless specifi ed, a 
reroll may not be rerolled.
Distance Measuring
All distances are expressed in inches, e.g., 6".
Distances are always measured from the 
nearest point on the edge of a marker or 
model’s base.
Distances are always measured on a 
horizontal plane.
Players may choose to measure any ranges 
or distances at any time.
Line of Sight
A model has LOS to a target spot, 
another model, or a goalpost as long as an 
unobstructed straight line may be drawn 
from any point on the model’s base to the 
target spot or to any point on the other 
model’s or goalpost’s base.
A line is considered obstructed if it passes 
through terrain that blocks LOS or if it 
passes over the base of a model.
Locus

Normal Turn Sequence
1 . Initiative Phase
Both players look at their chosen game 
plans and secretly select one to play.
Players 
reveal 
their 
chosen 
cards 
simultaneously and compare the initiative 
values of those cards. Each player 
additionally adds +1 to their initiative 
value for each of their unspent MP from 
the previous turn.
The player with the highest net initiative 
decides which team has the initiative. In 
the event of a tie, both players roll 1D6. 
The player who rolls higher decides which 
team has the initiative. In the event of a 
tie, reroll until one player rolls higher.
Then, starting with the player whose team 
has initiative this turn, resolve any eff ects 
of the chosen game plans. 
MP is then reset to 0 for each player. 
After this, the player who doesn’t have 
initiative gains 1 MP .
2 . Maintenance Phase
The player with the initiative completes 
their Maintenance Phase fi rst, and 
then the other player completes their 
Maintenance Phase. 
The player returns to play any friendly 
models which are suff ering the taken out 
condition.
Then generate the team’s infl uence pool. 
Apply any infl uence modifi er listed on 
that player’s chosen game plan to the 
infl uence pool before allocating infl uence.
Finally, the player allocates their infl uence 
pool amongst friendly models.
3 . Activation Phase
Starting with the player who has the 
initiative, alternate selecting a friendly model 
currently on the pitch to take its activation.
Each model must take an activation once 
per turn.
A model may choose to end its activation 
at any time. A model isn’t required to use 
all of its infl uence.
4 . End Phase
Once all models on both teams have 
completed all possible activations, the 
current turn ends. Players then remove 
all current ongoing eff ects and sustain 
eff ects, but not conditions. One model at a 
time, resolve all damage from conditions, 
and discard all infl uence on each model. 
Don’t reset MP at this point.
Both current game plans are removed 
from the pitch and discarded. If a player 
no longer has any game plan cards in their 
hand, they pick up all their discarded 
game plans to form a new hand.
Recovery Levels 
Models have a recovery level marked on 
their health bars.
During the Maintenance Phase, each 
model currently suff ering the taken out 
condition is returned to play. A model 
that returns to play removes the taken out 
condition.
A model that returns to play retains its 
current HP, then recovers HP up to its 
recovery level.
A returned model is placed in base contact 
with an edge of the pitch that’s within the 
friendly deployment zone and may then 
make a jog.
Sakana
Salt

Conditions & Condition Damage
During a game of Guild Ball, models may suff er conditions. Conditions remain on a 
model until removed.
Conditions may cause damage during the End Phase. The amount of damage a model suff ers 
from each condition is shown by the number next to the name of the condition. Any damage 
infl icted by a condition or by a trait or play which includes the phrase ‘condition damage’ is 
condition damage. Condition damage ignores eff ects that increase or decrease damage dealt. 
Bleed [3]
Remove the bleed condition after it infl icts 
damage in the End Phase.
Burning [1]
A model suff ering the burning condition 
suff ers –2"/–2" MOV.
Knocked Down [0]
A model suff ering the knocked down 
condition:
Doesn’t block LOS.
May not engage or attack an enemy model.
May not have possession of the ball or 
be the target of a pass.
May not use character plays.
May not advance or be moved by any 
means other than making a dodge or 
suff ering a push.
Suff ers –1 DEF.
If a model in possession of the ball suff ers the 
knocked down condition, scatter the ball using 
the circular scatter rules, with the template 
centred on the knocked down model.
A model suff ering the knocked down 
condition may forfeit its standard advance in 
order to remove the condition (i.e., stand up).
Poison [2]
Snared [0]
A model suff ering the snared condition 
suff ers –1 DEF and –2"/–2" MOV.
Taken Out [0]
When a model is reduced to 0 HP, it 
suff ers the taken out condition and is 
removed from the pitch. Remove all other 
conditions and eff ects from the model.
If a model in possession of the ball suff ers 
the taken out condition, before removing 
the taken out model from the pitch, 
scatter the ball using the circular scatter 
rules with the template centred on the 
taken out model.
A model that’s suff ering the taken out 
condition may not be allocated infl uence, 
may not suff er any other conditions, and 
may not become active for any reason.
An active model that causes an enemy 
model to suff er the taken out condition as 
a result of an action has infl icted the taken 
out condition on that model.
Influence
Every model on the pitch provides a measure of infl uence over the game. This is 
represented by the model’s INF stat.
Infl uence is a resource that a model may use in order to perform actions during each 
activation. Learning to use infl uence wisely is crucial to winning games.
Generating Influence
During the Maintenance Phase, an 
infl uence pool is generated for each team 
using the combined total of base INF from 
each of the team’s models. Note that all 
models generate infl uence, even models 
from your team which aren’t currently on 
the pitch. 
Each team may add 1 infl uence to the 
infl uence pool for each goal they have 
scored during this game that was worth 
4 VP or more. Each team’s infl uence pool 
may also gain or lose infl uence each turn 
as a result of game plan cards.
Allocating Influence
When it’s a player’s turn to allocate 
infl uence during the Maintenance Phase, 
the player allocates their team’s infl uence 
pool to their models on the pitch. A player 
may allocate infl uence to a model up to 
that model’s max INF.
A model may be allocated additional 
infl uence during the course of a turn but 
may not exceed its max INF. 
When a model is removed from the pitch 
it retains any unspent infl uence until the 
End Phase of the turn.
Using Influence
Most actions require spending infl uence. 
During its activation, a model may 
perform these actions as long as it has 
suﬃ cient infl uence to do so.
A model may perform actions in any 
order. Unless stated otherwise, an action 
may be repeated.
Common uses of infl uence include 
movement, attacks, kicks, and character plays.
Benediction

Actions
An action is a movement, a kick, an attack, a play, an active character trait, or any other 
ability that states ‘action’ in its description. A model may not interrupt an action with 
another action unless a specifi c timing trigger is stated.
Movement
When a model moves, it does so in a straight 
line. It may stop to change the direction of 
movement at any point without penalty.
When a model or marker is moving, 
distance is measured from the nearest 
point on the edge of the model or marker’s 
base in the direction it’s moving.
A model blocks movement. A model’s base 
may not pass over another model’s base 
during movement.
Possession of the ball has no impact on 
the distance travelled.
If any part of a model’s base leaves the 
pitch, immediately take the model off 
the pitch. A controlling player may not 
voluntarily move a friendly model to 
cause it to leave the pitch. After the model 
is taken off the pitch, it suff ers the taken 
out condition. A model removed in this 
way retains its current HP.
A model that moves 0" doesn’t count as 
moving. 
Advancing
During an advance, a model may gain or 
suff er modifi ers to its MOV. Apply these 
modifi ers immediately and cumulatively. 
If a model’s MOV is reduced during an 
advance and the distance it has already 
moved is greater than its reduced MOV 
stat, the advance ends immediately.
An advance may be one of the following:
Jog: Costs 0 infl uence. The model may 
move up to its base move.
Sprint: Costs 1 infl uence. The model may 
move up to its max move.
Charge: Costs 2 infl uence. The model 
may make a charge if it’s able to do so.
Standard Advance
During its activation a model may make 
a single standard advance. Once per 
activation, a model may choose to forfeit 
its standard advance; if it does so, it 
doesn’t count as moving. 
Additional Advance
A model may also be aff ected by plays 
or character traits which could cause it 
to perform an additional advance. An 
additional advance will be specifi ed as a jog, 
sprint, or charge but doesn’t cost infl uence. A 
model may make any number of additional 
advance movements during a turn. Any 
additional advance a model makes isn’t a 
standard advance and may not be forfeited.
Charging
To perform a charge, the active model selects 
a target enemy model that’s in its LOS and 
pays any applicable costs (usually 2 infl uence).
A model may not declare a charge if it’s 
currently engaged by an enemy model. 
A model may not target an enemy model 
that it’s currently engaging with a charge.
A charging model may advance up to its 
max move. If able, it must end the advance 
engaging the target enemy model. A 
model may not change direction during 
a charge. The active model then makes 
an attack (without spending infl uence) 
against the target enemy model. This 
attack gains +4 TAC.
While making a charge, if the active 
model doesn’t end its advance engaging 
the target enemy model, the charge has 
been unsuccessful, and the active model’s 
activation immediately ends.
Repositioning
Repositioning refers to any movement 
that isn’t an advance. A reposition may 
be caused by either a friendly model or an 
enemy model.
A dodge is a specifi c type of reposition 
movement and is shown as a distance, 
e.g., 2" dodge. Models may move up to the 
distance shown.
A push is another specifi c type of 
reposition movement and is also shown 
as a distance, e.g., 2" push. A model may 
be moved up to the distance shown. A 
model may not change direction during 
a push. A model being moved by a push 
stops if it contacts another model’s base, 
an obstruction, or a barrier.
Dodge and push movement receives no 
penalties or bonuses from terrain unless 
otherwise noted.
Brisket has a base move of 6". She jogs 
forward 4" before changing direction and 
using her remaining 2" of movement.
Brainpan & Memory

Target Number Tests
Many actions a model may make are 
resolved using a target number (TN) test.
Models use their stats and apply all 
relevant modifi ers to gather a number of 
six-sided dice (D6) in order to generate a 
dice pool.
Each relevant action confers a base 
number of dice to the dice pool. Action-
specifi c modifi ers are then applied. All 
other applicable modifi ers are then 
applied from character traits, plays, and 
other in-game eff ects and abilities. This 
will provide a total dice pool for the action.
The target number is shown as a number, 
e.g., 3+.
When making a TN test, each individual 
die rolled in the dice pool that equals or 
exceeds the target number generates a 
successful hit. Any die that rolls less than 
the target number is unsuccessful.
Some actions will have modifi ers that 
aff ect the number of successful hits after 
the dice pool has been rolled.
A TN test is successful if it generates 
at least 1 net hit. In many TN tests, 
additional hits improve the overall result.
TN Modifiers
When making a TN test, various factors 
may aff ect the target number or the dice 
pool. These will be explained by the 
relevant rules for that action.
Modifi ers may not reduce the target 
number to less than 2+ TN or increase the 
target number to greater than 6+ TN.
Instead, for each point a modifi er 
would take the target number to 
below 2+ TN, the dice pool gains an 
additional one die.
For each point a modifi er would take 
the target number to above 6+ TN, the 
dice pool loses one die.
Modifi ers may not reduce the total dice 
pool to less than one D6.
Scum
Pintpot

The Ball Marker
The ball is represented by a ball marker which is a 30 mm base.
A ball that isn’t in a model’s possession is a free ball.
Possession of the Ball
When a model is in possession of the 
ball, put the ball in base contact with 
that model to ensure that the model in 
possession of it is clearly identifi ed. While 
a model is in possession of the ball, the ball 
has no location on the pitch. The model in 
possession is considered to be the current 
location of the ball. While a model is in 
possession, the exact physical position of 
the ball is irrelevant; the position of the 
ball may be freely altered as required.
When a model in possession is moved, it 
retains possession of the ball throughout 
the movement.
During its activation, an active model in 
possession of the ball and not engaged 
may give up possession at any point. 
Giving up possession isn’t an action. To 
give up possession, the model places the 
ball within 1"; the ball then becomes a free 
ball. A model that has given up possession 
in this way may not Snap To the ball 
during the same activation.
If a model in possession of the ball suff ers 
the knocked down condition, scatter the 
ball using the circular scatter rules with 
the template centred on the knocked 
down model.
Snap To
A model which starts its activation or 
moves within 1" of a free ball may choose 
to take possession of the ball; the ball will 
immediately snap to that model.
If the ball is placed within 1" of a 
model, that model may choose to take 
possession; the ball will immediately snap 
to that model. If each team has one or 
more models within 1" of the ball when 
it’s placed, each model may roll 1D6 and 
add their base KICK to attempt to gain 
possession. The model with the highest 
result gains possession. When two or 
more models have the highest result, 
reroll for those models until one model 
gains possession. The ball may not snap to 
until after a scatter is resolved.
Multiple Balls
Some model and Guild abilities allow an 
additional ball to be put into play. These 
balls are treated exactly like the normal 
ball, except where their own special 
rules take precedence. A model may 
have possession of multiple balls. When 
a model in possession of multiple balls 
makes a kick action, their player must 
declare which ball they’re kicking. When a 
model in possession of multiple balls loses 
possession of the ball to an enemy model, 
the opposing player must declare which 
ball their model is taking possession of. 
Additional balls do not prevent generation 
of MP if positioned or possessed behind a 
Player’s goal line. If a model in possession 
of multiple balls suff ers the knocked down 
or taken out conditions, scatter both balls 
individually. When a ball is removed from 
the pitch for any reason, that ball is the 
one that is returned via a goal kick or 
throw in.
 Kicking
To spread the play across the pitch, models 
usually move the ball around using the 
kick action. A kick action is either a pass 
or a Shot.
During its activation, a model in 
possession of the ball may make a kick 
at the cost of 1 infl uence. The kicking 
model’s controlling player generates a dice 
pool using the kicking model’s current 
KICK. Apply any relevant bonuses and 
penalties to the dice pool before rolling 
the dice. A kick must target a target spot, 
friendly model, or enemy goalpost but 
doesn’t require LOS.
When making a kick, the ball path must 
be drawn from the kicking model directly 
towards the target spot, friendly model, or 
enemy goalpost.
Passing the Ball
A model may pass the ball to another 
friendly model or a target spot.
Shooting at Goal
To score a goal, a model must target the 
enemy goalpost with a kick action called 
a Shot. A goal may only be scored from 
a successful Shot — a ball that scatters 
into the goalpost won’t count. In order to 
make a Shot, a model must spend 1 MP in 
addition to the infl uence cost for making 
a kick.
During an activation, if a friendly model 
scores a goal, the activation immediately ends.
Tap In
If the target spot, friendly model, or target 
goalpost is within half of the kicking 
model’s kick range (rounded down), the 
kick suff ers –1 TN.
Veteran Harmony

Goal Kicks
After a goal, the ball is returned to play. 
Typically, the friendly crowd behind the 
goalpost kick the ball back into play for 
their team via a goal kick.
A goal kick happens after a goal is scored, 
immediately after any end of activation 
abilities are resolved. The player who just 
conceded the goal resolves the goal kick.
There’s no need to reset model positions. 
To resolve a goal kick, simply position the 
ball within 10" of the friendly goalpost 
and use the kick scatter rules to determine 
the ball’s fi nal landing spot.
A goal kick may never be intercepted. During 
a goal kick, the ball path may be drawn 
through terrain pieces. If the ball would end 
on top of a barrier or an obstruction, use the 
rule of least disturbance to place the ball along 
the ball path in contact with the terrain piece.
 Kicking Sequence
1. The active model declares a pass to a 
target spot, a pass to another friendly 
model, or a Shot at a goalpost and 
pays any applicable costs. If making a 
pass to a target spot, the active model 
positions the ball anywhere within its 
kick range.
2. Generate a dice pool using the kicking 
model’s base KICK.
Each enemy model engaging the 
kicking model causes the kick to 
suff er –1 dice pool.
Each enemy model not engaging 
the kicking model and with any part 
of its base on the ball path between 
the kicking model and the target of 
the kick is an intervening model. 
Each intervening model causes the 
kick to suff er –1 dice pool.
3. A kick is resolved as a 4+ TN test.
If the target spot, friendly model, 
or enemy goalpost isn’t in LOS of 
the kicking model, the kick suff ers 
a +1 TN modifi er.
If the target is a friendly model, the kick 
suff ers +1 TN for each enemy model 
engaging the target friendly model.
4. Upon a successful kick:
If the target is a friendly model, it 
immediately gains possession of 
the ball.
If the target is a goalpost, a goal is 
scored.
If the target is a target spot, 
immediately scatter using the 
kick scatter rules. The player may 
choose to reroll the entire kick 
scatter once but must accept the 
rerolled result.
Upon an unsuccessful kick:
If the target is a friendly model or a 
goalpost, scatter the ball from that 
model or goalpost using the kick 
scatter rules.
If the target is a target spot, 
immediately scatter using the kick 
scatter rules.
Snakeskin

v
Kick Scatter
When the ball is kicked, a kick scatter may 
be used to determine the fi nal landing spot.
Hold the kick scatter template over the target 
spot, target friendly model, or target enemy 
goalpost with the centre line pointing in the 
direction the ball was originally travelling. 
Roll 1D6 to determine the direction in 
which the ball scatters. Roll another 1D6 
to determine the distance the ball scatters. 
The ball’s fi nal landing spot is determined 
by measuring the scatter distance in the 
scatter direction from the target spot, target 
friendly model, or target enemy goalpost.
Once you’ve determined the fi nal landing spot, 
the ball path is centred on the line between the 
kicking model and the fi nal landing spot. If the 
ball scattered from a target model or goalpost, 
measure the scatter distance from the edge 
of the model or goalpost’s base.
If there are barriers or obstructions along 
the ball path, the ball is aff ected as explained 
in 'Terrain' on page 24. Otherwise, place 
the ball on the fi nal landing spot. 
Interception
When resolving a kick scatter, the closest 
model on the ball path between the 
kicking model and the fi nal landing spot 
may choose to take possession of the ball. 
If it doesn’t, the next-closest model on the 
ball path may choose to take possession. 
Repeat this process until there are no 
more models on the ball path. A circular 
scatter may not be intercepted.
Throw-Ins
If the ball leaves the pitch during a game 
for any reason, the game continues as the 
enthusiastic crowd quickly throws or boots 
the ball back into play.
If any part of the ball marker’s base leaves 
the pitch, immediately take the ball off the 
pitch. Place the ball on the centre spot of 
the pitch and resolve a circular scatter to 
determine its fi nal landing spot.
The ball may not be intercepted during a 
throw-in.
Scattering the Ball
Occasionally models will lose control of the ball or miss that crucial Shot or pass. 
Regardless of how it happens, a scatter will determine where the ball ends up.
Scatters require a template to resolve. There are two types of scatter template used in 
Guild Ball: a circular scatter and a kick scatter.
Circular Scatter
A circular scatter occurs whenever 
the ball bounces freely, such as when a 
model in possession of the ball suff ers the 
knocked down condition.
To determine the ball’s fi nal landing spot, 
hold the circular scatter template over 
the current location of the ball with the 
#1 pointing towards the active model’s 
goalpost. Then resolve a scatter roll.
Roll 1D6 to determine the direction in 
which the ball scatters. Roll another 1D6 
to determine the distance the ball scatters. 
The ball’s fi nal landing spot is determined 
by measuring the scatter distance in the 
scatter direction from the current location 
of the ball. Once you’ve determined the 
fi nal landing spot, the ball path is centred 
on the line between the original location of 
the ball and the fi nal landing spot. If the ball 
scattered from a model, measure the scatter 
distance from the edge of the model’s base.
If there are barriers or obstructions along 
the ball path, the ball is aff ected as explained 
in 'Terrain' on page 24. Otherwise, place 
the ball on the fi nal landing spot. 
Boiler slams into Shark and knocks 
him down. Shark loses possession 
of the ball and it scatters using 
the circular scatter rules.
Hold the circular scatter 
template centred over Shark’s 
model with the #1 pointing 
towards the active model’s goal 
– in this case Boiler’s goal.
Rolling 1D6 to determine the 
scatter direction results in a 2. 
Rolling 1D6 to determine the 
scatter distance results in 5".
Measure 5" from Shark’s base, 
and then place the ball with the 
closest edge exactly 5" away from 
Shark in the scatter direction. 
Ox has tried to pass the ball to a teammate but has 
missed. The ball scatters using the kick scatter template.
To determine the ﬁ nal landing spot, Ox positions the kick 
scatter template on the target friendly model with the 
centre line pointing in the direction of the original kick.
Ox determines the ball path to the ﬁ nal landing 
spot and groans as he notes that Jac is cunningly 
in the right place to intercept the miskick.
Ball Path
Ball Path
Ba

Making an Attack
During its activation, a model may make 
an attack against an enemy model at a 
cost of 1 infl uence.
A model may only make an attack against 
an enemy model that it’s engaging.
Engaging
When a model has an enemy model within its 
melee zone and LOS, it’s engaging that model.
When a model is within an enemy model’s 
melee zone and LOS, it’s engaged by that model.
A model may engage or be engaged by any 
number of enemy models.
Attack Sequence
1. The controlling player declares that 
the active model will make an attack 
against a target enemy model and pays 
any relevant costs (usually 1 infl uence).
2. Generate a dice pool using the active 
model’s current TAC; apply any 
3. An attack is resolved as a TN test of 
[target model’s current DEF].
4. Determine the net hits for the attack by 
deducting the target model’s current 
ARM from the number of successes on 
the TN test, to a minimum of 0. Then 
apply any net hit modifi ers. An attack 
is successful (and the target model is 
hit) if it generates at least 1 net hit.
5. The controlling player applies the net 
hits to the active model’s playbook to 
determine the result(s) of the attack.
For a more detailed attack sequence, see 
'Comprehensive Timing Sequences' on 
page 26.
Common Attack Bonuses and Penalties
Charging
When making a charge, the active model 
gains +4 TAC for the attack made as part 
of the charge.
Ganging Up
When making an attack, the active model 
gains +1 TAC for each friendly model, 
other than itself, engaging the target 
enemy model.
Crowding Out
When making an attack, the active model 
suff ers –1 TAC for each enemy model, 
other than the target enemy model, 
engaging the active model.
Cover
When attacking a model that is benefi tting 
from cover, the attacking model suff ers –1 
TAC for the duration of the attack.
Shark is engaging Boiler and Veteran Gutter 
with his 2" melee zone but isn’t engaging 
Brisket because he doesn’t have LOS to her.
Shark isn’t engaged by Boiler’s 1" melee zone 
but is engaged by Veteran Gutter’s 2" melee zone.

Common Results and Effects
Playbook Damage (DMG) – A playbook 
damage result reduces the current HP on the 
target enemy model by the number shown. After 
applying damage modifiers to each individual 
playbook damage result, combine all DMG results 
from an attack into a single instance of damage.
Push – The target model suff ers 1" of 
push movement for each arrow shown on the 
playbook result. Combine all push results from 
the same attack into a single push movement.
Dodge – The active model may make 1" of 
dodge movement for each arrow shown on the 
playbook result. Combine all dodge results from 
the same attack into a single dodge movement.
KD Knocked down – The target model 
suff ers the knocked down condition. If the 
target model is already suff ering the knocked 
down condition, this eff ect is invalid and 
therefore may not be chosen unless as part 
of a result with additional valid eff ects.
Tackle – If the target enemy model 
currently has possession of the ball, 
the active model immediately gains 
possession. If the target model doesn’t 
currently have possession of the ball, this 
eff ect is invalid and therefore may not 
be chosen unless as part of a result with 
additional valid eff ects.
Character play – Shown as 
either ‘
’ or ‘
’, these are play icons. 
Each time the active model selects a play 
icon playbook result, it may trigger a single 
character play without spending infl uence. 
Each character play will indicate if it may 
be triggered by play icons by showing 
either ‘
’ or ‘
’ in the CST column. A 
single character play can be triggered by 
each result with a corresponding play icon 
without spending infl uence.
Playbook
A model that makes a successful attack 
applies the net hits to its unique playbook 
to determine the result or results. 
Honour’s playbook is shown to the left.
A playbook is always read from left to 
right. The potential results are arranged 
in columns.
Selecting Results
A single net hit from an attack allows the 
model to access the fi rst column on the 
left of its playbook. Each additional net hit 
allows the model to access an additional 
column, proceeding from the left. The 
model selects a single result from any of 
the results in the available columns; apply 
all the eff ects of the selected result if able. 
Some individual playbook results deliver 
more than one eff ect. You may select a 
result with some invalid eff ects, provided 
at least one eff ect is valid. The controlling 
player must resolve all valid eff ects 
generated but may do so in any order.
Momentous results are highlighted with 
a colour fi ll on the playbook, such as the 
tackle T
listed in the fi rst column of 
Honour's playbook. Momentous results 
generate 1 MP for the active model’s team 
in addition to the eff ects of the selected 
result. If an ability allows a model to ignore 
or invalidate all eff ects of a momentous 
playbook result, then no MP is generated.
Wrapping
Occasionally an attack is wildly successful 
and may wrap around the playbook to 
generate multiple results.
If an attack generates more net hits than 
there are columns on the active model’s 
playbook, the model will select more than 
a single result. In this instance, the active 
model counts up to the last column and 
selects a single result. The active model 
then continues counting columns from 
the left, selecting an additional result each 
time it reaches the last column or runs out 
of net hits.
The controlling player must resolve all 
results generated but may do so in any order.
All results generated from a single attack 
are considered to be simultaneous 
events but are individually subject to any 
applicable modifi ers.
4/6"
3+
Melee Zone 1
Quick Time
4"
KD
Parting Blow
When performing an advance, if an active 
model leaves the melee zone or LOS of 
an enemy model that’s engaging it, that 
enemy model may immediately declare a 
parting blow against the active model. A 
model may suff er multiple parting blows if 
leaving multiple melee zones and/or LOS.
A parting blow is an attack which doesn’t 
cost infl uence and is triggered and 
resolved immediately at the point the 
active model leaves the melee zone or 
LOS of the enemy model.
A parting blow attack gains +2 TAC.
A model making a parting blow doesn’t receive 
the ganging up or crowding out modifi ers.
A parting blow may not generate MP from 
momentous playbook results. Damage, knocked 
down, and tackle are the only valid results for a 
parting blow. A parting blow may not trigger a 
playbook character play result. Models may not 
be repositioned or placed during a parting blow. 
After a parting blow is resolved, the active 
model may continue its advance if able to do so.
6 /8
3+
Ch r
er Pl ys
KD

Plays
Models have a number of special abilities and skills, collectively called plays, they may 
use during the game.
There are three types of play a model may have access to: character plays, heroic plays 
and legendary plays.
Character plays are the most common 
type of plays, and most models have 
multiple character plays to choose from.
Character plays are used by spending 
infl uence or triggering them with play 
icons generated from an attack.
All character plays have the following:
[Name] This is the character play’s name.
[Description] This describes the character 
play and its eff ect. If the character play has 
a pulse, an aura, or an AOE eff ect, that’s 
also described here.
Cost [CST] Shown as the amount of 
infl uence it costs to use the character 
play and/or the corresponding play icons 
required to trigger the character play as a 
playbook result.
Range [RNG] Shown as one of three 
values:
[n"] The maximum range of the character 
play.
[S] Denotes that the character play's range 
is Self and it may only be used on the 
model which triggered it.
[P] Denotes that the character play may 
only be triggered as a playbook result 
using play icons. This character play may 
target only the original attack target.
Sustain [SUS] A tick in this column shows 
that the character play has eff ects which 
last until the end of the current turn.
[OPT] A tick in this column shows that 
the character play may be used only once 
per turn.
Character Plays Using Influence
During its activation a model may spend 
infl uence to use a character play.
A model using a character play may target 
any valid model within range and LOS.
A character play is resolved as a TN test 
of [target model’s current DEF]. Use 
the character play’s cost in infl uence to 
generate the dice pool.
The controlling player may choose to 
automatically hit friendly models with 
character plays with no TN test required.
Character Plays from Attacks
Additionally, it’s possible for a character 
play to be triggered as a playbook result.
When a model selects a play icon playbook 
result during an attack, it may use that 
result to trigger a single character play 
without spending infl uence. Character 
plays which may be triggered by play icons 
include those icons in their CST.
A model triggering a character play may 
target any valid model within range and LOS.
A character play triggered from the 
playbook is automatically successful with 
no TN test required.
Sequence of a Character Play
1. The active model declares a character 
play against a target model within range 
and LOS and pays the relevant cost.
2. If required, determine the success of 
the character play with a TN test:
a) Generate a dice pool using the cost 
of the character play; apply any 
b) Resolve the character play as a TN 
test of [target model’s current DEF].
c) If the TN test is successful, the 
target is hit. Apply the eff ects of the 
character play.
3. If a TN test isn’t required, then 
the character play is automatically 
successful and the target is hit.
Brisket has just attacked Shark. She generated 
3 net hits on her attack, which gives her 
access to her 3rd playbook column. She 
decides to use the play icon on her 3rd 
playbook column to trigger her Dirty Knives 
character play on Angel, who is nearby. Brisket 
checks that Angel is within the 6" range of 
her character play and conﬁ rms LOS.
Angel is a valid target and so immediately 
suﬀ ers the eﬀ ect of the character play as Brisket 
launches a wicked-looking knife at her.
3/8"
4+
2/4
Melee Zone 1"
Super Shot
This model gains +1/+2" KICK.
Dirty Knives
2/
Target enemy model suffers –1 DEF, 1 DMG, 
and the poison condition.
Wrecker
Flask
g

Sequence of an 
AOE Character Play
1. The active model declares an AOE 
character play and pays the applicable cost.
2. Position a 3" AOE template with any 
part of the template within the range 
of the character play. This template 
may overlap models’ bases, terrain, 
other AOEs, or markers.
3. If the character play includes eff ects 
for models hit by the play, perform 
the following steps for each model 
currently within the AOE, in an 
order chosen by the active model’s 
controlling player:
a) Generate a dice pool using the CST 
of the character play; apply any 
b) A character play is resolved as a 
TN test of [model’s current DEF]. 
The active model may choose to 
automatically 
succeed 
against 
friendly models.
c) If the TN test is successful, the 
model is hit. Apply the eff ect of the 
character play immediately.
d) If the TN test is unsuccessful, that 
model has managed to duck out of 
the way and is unaff ected.
4. If the AOE character play has an 
ongoing eff ect, mark the AOE zone 
with a 3" AOE template.
Ongoing Effects
Some AOEs leave a residual ongoing 
eff ect on the pitch (a patch of rough 
terrain, for example). Mark the zone of 
any ongoing eff ect on the pitch with 
a suitable template. An AOE template 
may overlap models’ bases, terrain, other 
AOEs, or markers.
Common Character Play Bonuses and Penalties
Crowding Out
When making a character play, the active model suff ers –1 dice pool for each enemy 
model, other than the target enemy model, engaging the active model.
Area of Effect (AOE) Character Plays
Some character plays aff ect a defi ned 
area on the pitch rather than a particular 
target; these are called AOE (area of eff ect) 
character plays.
To measure the AOE of an AOE character 
play, use a circular template that’s 3" in 
diameter. (In rules these are simply called 
3" AOE templates.) An AOE template 
may overlap models’ bases, terrain, other 
AOEs, or markers.
All models (friendly and enemy) within 
the AOE of an AOE character play may 
be aff ected by it, but they aren’t targeted 
by it.
An AOE character play triggered from the 
playbook is automatically successful with 
no TN test required.
Mercury smiles as he uses a Fire Blast; he spends 
2 inﬂ uence, the cost of the character play.
Looking around, he sees that Ox, Veteran Gutter, 
and Brisket are clumped together perfectly and 
chooses to position any part of the 3" AOE template 
within the 6" range of the character play.
If he were triggering this character play from a 
playbook result (following an attack), all three 
of the Butchers would be automatically hit 
and suﬀ er the eﬀ ects of the character play!
However, Mercury has paid inﬂ uence to 
use this character play and so must test 
to see who is aﬀ ected and who isn’t.
For each model within the template, Mercury gathers 
a dice pool based on the inﬂ uence cost of the character 
play, in this instance 2. He may choose to spend 
MP on Bonus Time to add an additional die to the 
pool, but he must do so individually for each model.
Each model this is hit suﬀ ers 2 damage and the 
burning condition. After resolving the character 
play against all three Butchers, Mercury leaves 
the 3" template in place, as Fire Blast has an 
ongoing eﬀ ect until the end of the turn. 
Mercury’s Fire Blast leaves an AOE on the 
pitch until the End Phase of the current turn. 
Models entering or ending their activations 
within the AOE suﬀ er the ongoing eﬀ ect of 
the play, in this case the burning condition.
Both Ox and Veteran Gutter move out of the 
ongoing eﬀ ect AOE and so don’t suﬀ er the 
burning condition. Smoke charges Brisket 
and suﬀ ers the burning condition when 
she enters the AOE. She then inﬂ icts the 
knocked down condition on Brisket, who is 
therefore unable to leave the AOE during 
her activation. As a result, Brisket suﬀ ers the 
burning condition at the end of her activation.
y
y
m

Heroic and Legendary Plays
Heroic and legendary plays are special skills that only especially talented models have.
Heroic Plays
Heroic plays cost 1 MP to use. Heroic plays may be used only once per turn.
Eff ects caused by a heroic play last until the end of the current turn unless noted 
otherwise.
Legendary Plays
Legendary plays have no infl uence or MP cost. Because they’re such exceptional skills, 
they may be used only once per game. 
Eff ects caused by a legendary play last until the end of the current turn unless noted 
otherwise.
Momentum
A Guild Ball team’s actions and play may generate impetus and drive. The growing 
excitement, the roar of the crowd, the quickening pace — this is all called momentum, a 
resource which allows players to capitalise on the building pressure in the game by giving 
access to special actions not usually available.
Momentum may never be reduced to less than 0.
Gaining Momentum
Guild Ball rewards positive proactive play by generating momentum. Examples include 
a team playing to its strengths, scoring a goal, passing the ball, or even taking out enemy 
players.
A team won’t generate momentum while a friendly model in possession of the ball 
is within the area behind their own goal line. Additionally, a team won’t generate 
momentum while a free ball is within the area behind their own goal line as a result of 
a kick, a goal kick, or placement by that team’s controlling player.
Score a Goal
When a model scores a goal, the friendly 
team gains 1 MP. 
When resolving a Shot, if two or more 6s 
are rolled in the TN test, then the goal 
scored is a Screamer! The friendly team 
gains 2 MP instead.
Pass the Ball
When a model makes a successful pass 
which targets a friendly model, the 
friendly team gains 1 MP.
Take Down
When a model infl icts the taken out 
condition on an enemy model as part of 
an action, the friendly team gains 1 MP.
Playbook
When a model selects a momentous result 
during an attack, the friendly team gains 
1 MP.
Bonesaw
1 MP.

Rest
During its activation, a model may spend 
1 MP to recover 4 HP or remove all 
conditions it’s suff ering. A model may use 
Rest only once per turn.
Encourage
During its activation, a model may spend 
2 MP to target another friendly model 
within 8". The target friendly model 
recovers 4 HP or removes all conditions 
it’s suff ering. A model may benefi t from 
Encourage only once per turn.
Bonus Time
When resolving a TN test, a model may 
spend 1 MP to add one die to the dice pool 
before rolling. This may be done only once 
per TN test and only after all other modifi ers 
to the dice pool have been applied.
Bonus Time isn’t an action.
Gliding
Once per turn an active model may 
spend 1 MP to move across rough terrain 
without penalty for the remainder of the 
current turn.
Gliding isn’t an action.
Using Momentum
Using momentum gives a team far more tactical options.
A model may use any number of momentous abilities as long as it has the MP to do so. 
All momentous abilities are actions unless otherwise stated.
Scoring a Goal
A model that wants to make a Shot on 
goal must spend 1 MP in addition to any 
infl uence cost (usually 1 infl uence).
Pass & Move
After a successful pass to another model, 
either the passing model or the receiving 
model may spend 1 MP to make a 4" dodge.
Snap Shot
After a successful pass, the receiving 
model may spend 2 MP to make an out-
of-activation Shot without spending 
infl uence. A model may not make a Snap 
Shot if the kicker or receiver of the pass 
uses Pass & Move.
A Snap Shot requires 2 net hits to score a 
goal rather than the usual 1 net hit and is 
subject to all of the normal kick bonuses 
and penalties.
It’s possible to score a Screamer! with a 
Snap Shot.
Run the Length!
After scoring a goal, at the end of the 
current activation, the scoring model may 
spend 1 MP to make a 4" dodge.
Counter-Attack
After an attack or charge is declared, the 
target model may respond by spending 1 
MP to declare a Counter-Attack. After the 
active model resolves its attack, the target 
model may then make an attack against 
the origin model, if able. A model may 
declare a Counter-Attack only once per 
turn against each enemy model.
A Counter-Attack doesn’t generate MP 
from momentous playbook results.
A model may not declare a Counter-Attack 
against a Counter-Attack or parting blow.
Defensive Stance
After a charge is declared the target model 
may choose to spend 1 MP to respond. 
The target model gains +1 DEF for the 
duration of the charge.
Defensive Stance isn’t an action.
Cast

 Terrain
Terrain plays a big role during the course of a game of Guild Ball, aﬀ ecting things that range 
from how the ball reacts to how models traverse the pitch.
Amount and Placement
There are no set rules for how much 
terrain to use, as Guild Ball may be played 
anywhere, from a purpose-built pitch or 
a town square to an old battleground or 
crumbling ruins — even in a pig fi eld! Just 
be sure to agree with your opponent to 
defi ne the terrain before starting the game.
If you would like to see guidelines on the 
amount of terrain to use during a game, 
go to www.steamforged.com and take a 
look at the Regional Cup Organised Play 
Document. This document also suggests 
appropriate game sizes for each type of 
terrain feature.
Definitions of Terrain
It’s possible to use many and varied types of terrain in a game of Guild Ball. For each 
piece of terrain, agree with your opponent what type it is.
Terrain pieces are usually quite obvious, but some could be defi ned in multiple ways. It’s vital 
that both players discuss and agree what each piece of terrain is before any game begins.
Some model abilities cause an area of the pitch to be treated like a certain type of terrain. 
This eff ect is in addition to any eff ects from already existing terrain.
Open Ground
Describes mostly even, clear ground free 
of any hazards such as grassy fi elds, streets, 
roads, tracks, desert, tundra, and so on.
Open ground is the default for the pitch, 
so you don’t need to declare this!
There are no special rules for open ground.
Rough Terrain
Rough terrain would be something like 
thick mud or bogs, puddles, streams, 
ploughed fi elds, or areas with trip hazards 
such as broken masonry.
A model that moves within rough terrain 
at any point during an advance suff ers 
–2"/–2" MOV. This penalty is incurred 
only once per advance for the duration of 
that advance.
Fast Terrain
Fast terrain refers to slippery areas of the 
pitch such as ice patches, slick mud, wet 
cobblestones, or wet wooden decking.
A model that moves within fast terrain at 
any point during an advance gains +2"/+2" 
MOV. This bonus may be gained only 
once per advance for the duration of that 
advance.
Truﬄ es
Buckwheat
ﬄ

Types of Terrain
Cover
When attacking a model that is benefi tting 
from cover, the attacking model suff ers –1 
TAC for the duration of the attack.
Obstruction
An obstruction is a small- or medium-
height terrain feature such as a crate, 
statue, platform, wagon, boulder, or bale 
of hay.
A model in an obstruction or within 1" of the 
edge of an obstruction benefi ts from cover.
A model may move over an obstruction. 
Models may not end their movement 
on top of an obstruction or be placed on 
one. Models may not advance over an 
obstruction during a sprint or charge.
While a player is in control of another 
player’s model, that model may not move 
over obstructions.
When a ball makes contact with an 
obstruction during a scatter, use the rule 
of least disturbance to place the ball in 
base contact with the obstruction along 
the ball path.
A marker may not be placed on an 
obstruction.
Barrier
A barrier is an impassable terrain feature, 
usually due to height. This category of 
terrain includes things such as cliff s, 
buildings, and boulders.
A model within 1" of the edge of a barrier 
benefi ts from cover.
A barrier blocks LOS. A model or marker may 
not move into or be placed onto a barrier.
The ball may not be placed on a barrier. If 
the fi nal landing spot is within a barrier or 
the ball contacts a barrier during a scatter, 
use the rule of least disturbance to place 
the ball in base contact with the barrier 
along the ball path.
Forest
A forest is often represented by a number 
of trees on a base.
A forest is rough terrain. A model within a 
forest benefi ts from cover.
A model making a kick while within a 
forest, or one making a kick to a target 
spot or target model that’s within a 
forest, suff ers –1 dice pool. This penalty is 
incurred only once per kick.
A model may draw LOS into or out of a 
forest but not through a forest.

Sequence of a 
Jog or Sprint
A player states intention to jog 
or sprint and calculates bonuses, 
penalties, and restrictions
2 . During Advance
Eﬀ ects, abilities, bonuses, and 
penalties that trigger while advancing.
3 . End Advance
when an advance ends.
 Comprehensive Timing Sequences
The timing sequences are a series of steps 
that allow a player to pinpoint exactly 
when an ability or eff ect triggers during 
the game. These steps are designed to 
assist in the accurate resolution of timing 
questions that may arise when multiple 
abilities or eff ects trigger. Whilst some 
simplifi ed timing sequences appear earlier 
in this rulebook, the sequences listed here 
are more detailed versions.
When an ability or eff ect references a 
timing step resolving from that point 
onwards, don’t resolve any precursor steps.
For example, Compound’s character trait, 
Noxious Death, states:
‘When this model suﬀ ers the taken out 
condition during the Activation Phase, 
enemy models within this pulse suﬀ er 3 
DMG and the poison condition.'
Noxious Death identifi es the step ‘suff er 
the taken out condition’, indicating that 
Noxious Death triggers at step 2 in the 
‘Sequence of Taking a Model Out’.
an Activation
2 . During Activation
A model may make actions.
3 . End of 
Activation
when an activation ends.
1 .1 Resolution
Resolve any effects that triggered 
at the start of the model’s 
activation, in any order the 
controlling player chooses.
1 . Start of 
Activation
Check for any eﬀ ects that trigger at 
the start of the model’s activation.
a Charge
4 . Make Attack
Refer to step 2, ‘Attack process’, 
of ‘Sequence of an Attack’.
A player states intention to 
charge and calculates bonuses, 
penalties, and restrictions.
1 .1 Response
Opponent’s opportunity 
to declare reactions.
2 . During Advance
Eﬀ ects, abilities, bonuses, and 
penalties that trigger while advancing.
2 .1 Response
Is the charging model 
engaging the target model?
3 . End Advance
when an advance ends.
Taking a Model Out
4 . Generate 
Momentum and VP
Gain any MP for inﬂ icting the 
taken out condition. Gain any VP 
for inﬂ icting the taken out condition.
3 . Remove Model 
from the Pitch
2 . Suffer the 
Taken Out Condition
Eﬀ ects and abilities that trigger when a 
model suﬀ ers the taken out condition.
1 . A model Has Been 
Reduced to 0 HP
when a model is reduced to 0 HP.
Tater
Mist

an Attack
A player states their intention 
to attack with a model.
3 . Check for Taken Out
Has a model been reduced to 0 HP?
4 . After the Attack 
is Resolved
when an attack ends.
1 .1 Response
Opponent’s opportunity 
to declare reactions.
2 .1 Generate Dice Pool
The dice pool may not 
be reduced to 0.
2 .2 Bonus Time
Player may use Bonus Time.
2 .3 Roll dice
2 .4 Calculate 
damage modifiers
2 .5 Select and apply 
playbook results
2 .3 .1 Net Hits
2 .5 .1 Apply any 
additional effects 
of the attack
2 . Attack Process
Sequence of a 
Character Play
A player states their intention to use 
a character play with a model.
3 . Check for Taken Out
Has a model been reduced to 0 HP?
4 . After the 
Character Play 
is Resolved
Resolve eﬀ ects and abilities that 
trigger when a character play ends.
2 .1 Generate Dice Pool
The dice pool may not 
be reduced to 0.
2 .2 Bonus Time
Player may use Bonus Time.
2 .3 Roll dice
2 .4 Calculate 
damage modifiers
2 .5 Apply results of the 
character play
2 .3 .1 Determine 
hit or miss
2 . Attack Process

Index
Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 13
Activation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 11
Activation Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Active Character Traits . . . . . . . . 4
Active Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Additional Advance . . . . . . . . . . 13
Advancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Allocating Influence . . . . . . . . . . 12
ARM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Armour Value [ARM] . . . . . . . . . . 4
Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Attack Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Aura . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Away . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 15
Ball Path . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9, 15
Ball Skills and 
Kicking Ability [KICK] . . . . . . . . . 4
Base Contact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Base Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Bleed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Bodycount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Burning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
C
Captain . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Character Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Character Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 20
Character Plays from Attacks . . 20
Character Plays Using Influence . 20
Character Traits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Charge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 13
Charging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13, 18
Circular Scatter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Common Attack 
Bonuses and Penalties . . . . . . . . 18
Completely Within . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Comprehensive 
Timing Sequences . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Condition Damage . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Conditions & 
Condition Damage . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Controlling Player . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Conventions of Play . . . . . . . . . . 10
Cost [CST] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Cover . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Crowding Out . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D
Damaged . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Defensive Ability [DEF] . . . . . . . . 4
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Deployment Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Dice Pool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Directly Away . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Directly Towards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Distance Measuring . . . . . . . . . . 10
Dodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13, 19
E
End Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Enemy Model or Marker . . . . . . . 9
Engaged . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Engaging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Enters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
F
Final Landing Spot . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Free Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Friendly Model or Marker . . . . . . 9
Game Length . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Game Plans . . . . . . . . . . 5, 7, 11, 12
Game Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Ganging Up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Generating Influence . . . . . . . . . 12
Goal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Goal Kicks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Goal Line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7, 9
Goalpost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7, 9
Goals! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Guild Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
H
Halfway Line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Health Points [HP] . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Heroic Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
How to Win . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
I
Influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Influence [INF] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Influence Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Initiative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Initiative Phase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Initiative Value . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Interception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Intervening Model . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Jog . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4, 13
K
Kicking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Kicking Player . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Kicking Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Kick Off . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Kick Scatter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Knocked Down . . . . . . . . . . . 12, 19
L
Least Disturbance . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Line of Sight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
LOS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Maintenance Phase . . . . . . . . . . 11
Making an Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Mascot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Melee Zone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 18
Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Model Type . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Movement [MOV] . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
N
Normal Turn Sequence . . . . . . . 11
Origin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
P
Parting Blow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Passing the Ball . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Passive Character Traits . . . . . . . 4
Picking a Team . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Pitch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Placed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Playbook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Playbook Damage (DMG) . . . . . 19
Player . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Playing the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Plays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5, 20
Poison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Possession of the Ball . . . . . . . . . 15
Pre-Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Pre-Game Sequence . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Preparing for a Game . . . . . . . . . . 6
Profile Card . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Pulse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Push . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13, 19

R
Receiving Player. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Recovery Levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Repositioning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Reroll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Rules Confl icts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Scattering the Ball . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Selecting Results . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Sequence of a Character 
Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20, 27
Sequence of a Charge . . . . . . . . .26
Sequence of a Jog or Sprint . . . .26
Sequence of an Activation . . . . .26
Sequence of an Attack . . . . . . . .27
Taking a Model Out . . . . . . . . . .26
Setting Up . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Shooting at Goal . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Snap To . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Snared . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Sprint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4, 13
Standard Advance . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Starting Roll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Stats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Tackle. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Tactical Ability [TAC] . . . . . . . . . . 4
Taken Out. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Tap In. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Target Model or Marker . . . . . . . . 9
Target Number Tests . . . . . . . . .14
Target Spot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Team Size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Throw-Ins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
TN Modifi ers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
TN Test . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Tokens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Tokens and Markers . . . . . . . . . .10
Towards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
U
Using Infl uence . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Victory Points (VP) . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
W
Within . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Wrapping. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Harry ‘the Hat’
Ulfr