RULES
OF THE
GAME

Gumshoe second edition rules
Copyright ©1986 by Sleuth Publications, Ltd.
All rights reserved.
PDF by Robert Wahlstedt 2020

THE PLAY OF THE GAME
1.01	 GAME COMPONENTS
Case and Clue Book:  This book contains the Daily Introductions to 
the cases, the daily Clue Point Pages and the corresponding Clues.
Map of San Francisco:  1933 map of San Francisco to be used by 
player for reference. Blocks are labeled with street numbers. 
Example: 420 Hayes street will be on block labeled 400. The insert 
in the lower right provides an expanded view of the lower Market 
street area. See Index to Streets and Alleys on page 42 of Bay Coun­
ties Telephone Directory.
Map of Bay Area:  Reference map for player. If you wish to travel out 
of San Francisco look for the desired destination on the Clue Point 
Page for the appropriate day. See Index on page 41 of Bay Counties 
Telephone Directory.
Bay Counties Telephone Directory:  An alphabetical listing of people 
and businesses by city. May be used by player at any time.
Classified Telephone Directory:  Listing of people and businesses by 
category. May be used by player any time.
Fingerprint File:  A set of 14 cards arranged by fingerprint classi­
fication (see section 2.01) containing all fingerprints used in 
GUMSHOE along with their four-digit fingerprint numbers. The 
classification abbreviation appears in the upper right in the form 
“L3” or “W4,” indicating a Loop with ridge count of 3 or a Whorl 
with a ridge count of 4 respectively.
Mug Shot Cards:  The Mug Shot Cards (27) contain the photos, 
fingerprints and criminal records of characters you may encounter 
during the game.
Autopsy Reports:  Bound booklet of autopsy reports of selected 
victims (14). Each report contains a date and a time at which the 
doctor performing the post-mortem completed the report. Each 
report is available to you as soon as it is completed, i.e. anytime 
after you have reached on your Time Sheet the time recorded on 
the autopsy.
Laboratory Reports:  Criminal laboratory reports (9). Used in same 
manner as Autopsy Reports.
Newspapers:  The Call-Bulletin is a morning paper. The day’s paper 

is waiting for you at the office each morning. There is a sep­arate 
paper for each of the nine days of the game.
Time Pad:  Used to keep track of the time as you go about your 
day’s investigations.
Report Book:  Questions and answers pertaining to the cases. At the 
end of each day, the Old Man gives you a series of questions he 
wants answered. Of course, you cannot answer all the questions the 
first time. You will have to play the game over many times, but that’s 
the fun.
Rules:  An attempt to explain how to play the game, as well as 
several important corrections and additions.
1.02	 GAME SET UP
At the start of each game place the maps, directories, fingerprint 
file and mug shot cards so all players have access to them. Give 
each player a sheet from the time pad. We suggest that you begin 
by reading Clue 117. There is a Daily Introduction (Daily) which 
should be read at the start of each day. Open the Clue Book to the 
first day, July 3, 1934. One of the players should read the Daily aloud 
to the others. After this has been read, the players may look at the 
Call Bulletin, a morning newspaper, for that day. Thus, on the first 
day everyone should look at the July 3, 1934 newspaper.
During this phase of the game players can and should discuss 
the case. Plan your day! Work with your fellow operatives. Once you 
leave the office you will only be able to communicate with other 
operatives when you are in the same place at the same time.
1.03	 CLUE
To find a clue, turn to the Clue Point Page for the appropriate day. 
You will find a listing of names, addresses and locations. Each of 
these listings is followed by a clue number. This number refers you 
to the appropriate clue in the Clue Section.
Turn to the clue and read it. At the end of each clue you will find 
a Time given. All clues will have a time associated with them. The 
player who chooses and reads that clue should advance his time 
sheet by the time shown. Occasionally a clue will be followed by 
additional information in the form of a Clock, an If Situation, or a 
Fingerprint clue. These are explained below.

1.04	 SAMPLE GAME
We will go through a sample game with three players, Players A, 
B and C. Player A reads the Daily Introduction aloud to the other 
two. After the Daily Introduction is read and the players discuss 
their plans they are now ready to start their investigation. Players 
A and B decide that they will go to 850 Oak street to interview a 
suspect. Player C decides to go to Oakland and check some court 
records. Player A looks up 850 Oak street on the Clue Point page 
which refers player to Clue 85.
Clue 85 is read by Players A and B. At the end of Clue 85, we see 
Time: 30 minutes. Players A and B mark off 30 minutes on each of 
their Time Sheets.
Player A now decides to go to the Police Station to see Lt. Joe 
DaCosta. Player A will look up City Hall on the Clue Point page 
and go to the clue number indicated. Player B decides to go to the 
Bellevue Hotel where a client is staying. The clue for this location 
might be listed under Bellevue Hotel or it might be listed under its 
address, 505 Geary.
In the meantime, Player C has looked up Oakland on the Clue 
Point Page. (See section 1.07.) After looking up the clue, Player C 
will know how long it takes him to get to Oakland and will adjust his 
Time Sheet accordingly. He will now look up his Oakland destina­
tion and read the designated clue, again adjusting his Time Sheet.
Play continues in the above manner until a player reaches 9 p.m. 
At that point that player stops and waits for all other players to finish 
their day at which time players may read and discuss the Old Man’s 
questions in the Report Book. (See section 1.10.) Play resumes with 
the next day’s Daily Introduction and a new Clue Point Page.
1.05	 TIME CLOCK
Whenever you see the clock 
face you will adjust your time 
sheet to correspond to it.

1.06	 HAZARDS
During the game you may become involved in dangerous situa­
tions which may lead to injury or even death. Such situations could 
come about due to carelessness, or simply leading with your chin 
when you should have perhaps been picking up other warnings. For 
example:
I enter the room where I think the killer is trapped.
It is dark and quiet, too quiet for my liking. I grope for 
the light switch on the wall to my left and flip it. The lights 
come on, but a second later my lights are put out.
When the lights come back on they are bright and unfo­
cused. In fact, everything is blurred. I wonder how long I’ve 
been out. My eyes are starting to focus, but the light remains 
bright.
“How do you feel?” A face comes into view, a face of a 
man who is shining a light into my right eye. “Is your head 
still sore?”
“It feels like it was used as a football in the Army-Navy 
game.”
“You’ve had quite a nasty blow. A little higher and a little 
harder and you might have been killed, but, as it is, you’ll 
have a headache for a few days, nothing more.”
“How long have I been here?”
“You were brought in yesterday afternoon.”
“Yesterday afternoon! When can I get out of here?”
“I would like to keep you tonight.”
“Look, Doc . . .”
“Doctor Foster.”
“Look, Doc, I have to get out of here. I feel fine,” I lie.
“It’s up to you, but come and see me if you’re having any 
problems.”
My vision is normal as I walk out of San Francisco 
General, but my head feels like a bruised cantaloupe.
Time: 3:00 p.m., July 5
The player will adjust his time pad to coincide with the stated 
time and date. In a multiplayer game, if one player gets a day ahead, 
he should wait until at least one of the other players catches up to 
him in time.

1.07	 TRAVELING THE BAY
During the game you may have occasion to travel outside of San 
Francisco and throughout the Bay Area. Look up the destination 
city on that day’s Clue Point Page. In most cases you will be referred 
to Clue 100 where you will find a chart listing normal traveling times 
between twenty-eight Bay Area cities. In some cases, however, you 
will be referred to another clue which might describe a delay due to 
car trouble, a traffic accident or perhaps an encounter with an un­
savory character, a potential client or the police. In either case, you 
will now know how long it takes to get to and from your destination. 
Adjust your Time Sheet accordingly. Once in another city, you look 
up clues in the normal manner.
1.08	 IF SITUATIONS
After some clues you will be presented with If Situations. For 
example:
I enter the Frisco Cafe and find myself an empty table 
near the back. I order a cup of coffee and a stale doughnut 
from a bubble-gum chewing waitress. I am in the process of 
dunking the doughnut into my coffee when James comes in 
with a woman. And what a woman! I mean no disrespect to 
my mother, but James’s companion is that type of woman 
who attracts men’s eyes like a magnet pulls nails. She’s the 
type of woman who reminds you less of your mother and 
more of the type that mother didn’t want you to bring home.
They sit at an empty table by the front window and both 
order coffee, no stale doughnuts. They ignore the coffee 
and the gum-popping waitress as they engage in deep con­
versation. As I watch them I see the woman’s attitude go 
from intense concentration to anger. Before her anger can 
boil over they are joined by another man.
He immediately rejects the waitress’s offer for coffee, or 
anything else, and jumps into the argument. The woman 
is on the verge of tears as she reaches into her purse and 
pulls out a large envelope. She throws it onto the center of 
the table. James grabs it, looks inside, smiles. He places the 
envelope into his inside jacket pocket, pats it, and rises from 
his chair. At a nod from James, the other man rises also. 
Without a word to or from the woman, they make their way 

to the door. They stop there for a moment and exchange a 
few words as they move out the door. James heads up Sixth 
toward Market while the other man heads toward Mission.
The woman removes a handkerchief from her purse and 
daintly pats her eyes.
Time: 45 minutes
If you want to follow James go to Clue 208
If you want to follow the other man go to Clue 289
If you want to watch the woman go to Clue 123
The first thing you do after reading any clue is to adjust your 
Time Sheet by the time listed, in this case 45 minutes.
Let’s examine each option. If you want to follow James you turn 
to Clue 208. Clue 289 will allow you to follow the unknown man. If 
you wish to stay in the Frisco Cafe to watch the woman, or to have 
another cup of coffee, go to Clue 123.
1.09	 FINGERPRINTS
Identification by fingerprint has been an important tool in the 
difficult task of criminal investigation and the art of detection for 
many years. There are several situations in your life as an operative 
which could benefit from a familiarity and facility with fingerprint 
classification. After some clues you will be presented with the option 
to Fingerprint a location or object. If the opportunity to fingerprint 
does exist, the option will be presented in the form:
Fingerprint: Clue 339
When you turn to Clue 339 you will find one or more fingerprints 
and the time taken to find them. It is then up to you to classify the 
prints. (See section 2.01.) Once you have classified a fingerprint 
it should become an easy task to match it to one of the prints on 
the appropriate Fingerprint File card. That is, if you determine the 
print to be of the Loop type with a ridge count of four, you should 
take Fingerprint card number “05” for Classification “L4.” When 
you have matched the print you will have the fingerprint number. 
Fingerprint numbers are the four-digit numbers which appear 
under each print on the Fingerprint File cards.
Occasionally the authorities are presented with un­identified 
corpses, John and Jane Does. In some of these cases it might be pos­
sible to identify the dead person by matching his or her fingerprints 
to those on record. The procedure for arriving at the fingerprint 

number would be exactly the same as in the case of any unidenti­
fied print. After classifying the print, you should match it to one 
on the appropriate Fingerprint File card. All fingerprints used in 
GUMSHOE will have a fingerprint number associated with them.
There are several ways to proceed once you have determined the 
number of a given fingerprint. Some of these involve going to addi­
tional clues on future turns. The Department of Motor Vehicles has 
fingerprint records for those people with driver’s licenses. Look up 
the fingerprint number of the print you are trying to identify. Listed 
after the number will be the available name and address informa­
tion. (Note: While all fingerprints used in GUMSHOE have finger­
print numbers, not all the characters encountered have finger­print 
records. Thus there will be numerous people encountered who may 
have driver’s licenses, but if their prints are not used, they will not 
be included in the DMV records.)
If you believe the print you are trying to identify may belong to 
someone involved in federal crimes, you may be able to discover 
pertinent identification information at the Bureau of Investigation. 
This information is also listed by fingerprint number.
In addition to these two locations, available from the Clue Point 
Pages, you might also be able to match a fingerprint with one from 
a Mug Shot Card. The prints on mug shot cards are not listed with 
their fingerprint numbers.
In some cases you will be able to determine the fingerprint 
number of a particular print, but that number will not be listed in 
either the DMV Fingerprint Division or the Bureau of Investigation 
nor will the fingerprints match those on available mug shot cards. 
However, you should be able to make logical deductions based on 
the locations of the prints themselves. For example, if you find three 
fingerprints in an apartment, but only one of them is found in every 
room, you might make the logical deduction that that print belongs 
to the person living there.
1.10	 END OF PLAY
Following a case to its conclusion is one of the principal objec­
tives of an operative playing the game. Deciding when a case has 
been solved is one of the critical choices a detective must make. 
Isolating the central elements in an investigation, tracing leads, 
finding missing facts, and reaching conclusions which add up to a 
solution are the stuff of investigation.
The decision of when a case has been solved is left up to the 
players themselves, but the Old Man’s Questions have served as a 

guiding hand, or perhaps an encouraging boot, to many ops over 
the years. The Old Man’s Questions, which are located in the Report 
Book, are available at the end of each day. Each evening a new dated 
list of questions will be added to those previously asked. Players may 
refer to the previous questions at any time, but they should not look 
ahead to future questions.
It is possible, but very unlikely, that any one op might know 
the answers to all the questions when they are first asked. A team 
of detectives working together, able to follow a number of leads, 
cover a number of different locations and compare notes, may be 
able to answer quite a few of the questions. The Old Man, since 
he has to coordinate the workings of the San Francisco office of 
the Continental Detective Agency as a whole, is not concerned with 
only one active case at a time. His questions, therefore, may refer to 
several cases under investigation by the Agency.
The players will be faced with difficult choices during play as 
they may find new cases piling up on their plates. How they choose 
to solve them is up to them. If they prefer, they may try to nail down 
each case in turn. Alternatively, they may want to look at these nine 
days in July as a whole.
The answers to the Old Man’s Questions are given at the back 
of the Report Book. Answers to all the questions can be found in the 
materials provided with GUMSHOE if the players apply their own 
logic with good detective techniques.
2.01	 FINGERPRINT CLASSIFICATION
Human fingerprints may be broadly classified into several general 
patterns by their appearance. Of all fingerprints normally encoun­
tered, approximately sixty-five percent will have a “Loop” pattern, 
thirty percent will be “Whorls,” and the remaining five percent will 
be “Arches.” Many classification systems have been developed which 
can be of use to the advanced student of Dactyloscopy, but these 
simple categories are immediately recognizable and adequate for 
rapid field purposes.
Fingerprints used in this file will be listed according to type, 
Arches first, then Loops, then Twin Loops, then Whorls. The two 
largest categories, Loops and Whorls, will be broken down further 
by ridge count. Thus, L3 would mean a Loop pattern with a ridge 
count of three, likewise W4 would indicate a Whorl pattern with a 
ridge count of four. Operatives who become adept at this classifi­
cation process will narrow the choices down considerably, saving 
much time.

ARCHES
The Arch pattern is the least complicated of all the types. Ridges 
enter from one side and exit on the other. Figure 1 shows samples 
of the Arch pattern. Note the “tenting” effect in Figure 1b. Since the 
Arch configuration represents only five percent of all fingerprints, 
it can be quickly identified once it is recognized.
Figure 1
LOOPS
The basic Loop fingerprint must have at least one ridge which 
enters and exits from the same side of the pattern. In Figure 2a, 
ridges x and y satisfy this requirement. Note that the inner loop in 
Figure 2b enters and exits on the same stem.
Figure 2
TWIN LOOPS
Some ridges cannot decide whether to be Loops or Whorls, as 
shown in Figure 2c. We classify these as “Twin Loops.” Operatives 
should recognize this pattern easily. Twin Loops will be found at the 
end of the Loop section immediately preceding the Whorls.
Counting Ridges within the “Loop” pattern
Once a print is identified as the basic “Loop” type it will be nec­
essary to locate the “Delta” and the “Core” inside the “pattern area.” 

In Figure 3a the ridges drawn in broken line are called “type lines” 
and they define the boundaries of the “pattern area” (shaded).
Figure 3
At the approximate point (circled in Figure 3a) where these 
bound­ary ridges begin to diverge will be found the “Delta” (see 
Figure 3b). The “Delta” can be anything from a mere dot to a large 
section or combination of ridge structures. Figure 4 shows various 
delta con­figurations likely to be encountered. Notice in Figure 4b 
the delta ridge is attached to the upper type line. In this case the 
“Delta” (circled) will be at an approximate midway point between 
the two boundary lines x and y.
Figure 4
Now locate the “Core.” As the name implies the “Core” will be at 
the center of the pattern. Figure 5 shows several methods of deter­
mining where the “Core” lies. In Figure 5a the “Core” is located on 
the innermost loop on the shoulder opposite the “Delta.” When a 
single rod exists of sufficient height to reach the shoulder (dotted 
line) of the innermost loop, the tip of that rod will be the “Core” 
(see Figure 5b). When two such rods are present, mentally connect 
them, as in the dotted line of Figure 5c, and the situation in 5a will 
now apply. This principle works with any even number of lines, sim­
ply connect the inner two in your mind and the side opposite the 
“Delta” will be the “Core.” If there are an odd number of ridges as 
seen in Figure 5d, the tip of the center one will always be the “Core.”

Figure 5
d
Once you have located the “Delta” and the “Core” it will now 
be an easy matter to count the ridges between them. Figure 6 shows 
examples of several likely patterns with ridge counts indicated.
Figure 6
a  L1
b  L2
c  L3
d  L4
WHORLS
In this pattern there will exist at least one ridge which makes a 
complete recurvature around the “Core” or center of the finger­
print. Whorls can be spirals or concentric circles as seen in Figure 7.
Figure 7
Counting ridges within the Whorl pattern
To get a ridge count with this type of print simply find the 
uppermost delta, then locate the ridge immediately below it and 

follow it along until you are in proximity to the other delta. Now 
count the ridges as shown in Figure 8a. Figure 9 shows examples of 
“Whorls” with appropriate ridge counts given.
Figure 8
Figure 9
a W0
b W3
GENERAL VISUAL IDENTIFICATION
Once the operative has achieved ridge count from a latent print 
at the crime scene it should be quite easy to visually identify the 
suspect print from among the twenty or so which fit the category. 
Figure 10 shows some obvious characteristics to look for.
It is also a good idea to arrange the mugshot cards according to 
type and ridge count.
Figure 10
Gaps in ridges, dots and 
dashes enclosures and 
bifurcating ridges.
Radial (slanting toward 
thumb) or Ulnar (slanting 
toward little finger) Loops.
Warts or blisters.
Scars and cuts.
Mutilation
3.01	 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS
We confess, we’ve bungled a thing or two in putting this baby 
to bed. We’re not getting out the crying towel over it, and we hope 
you won’t either. We’ve caught a couple of our screw-ups but we’ve 
surely missed just as many more. You should take a gander at the 

following and remember to check back with these corrections when 
the time comes.
Autopsy Reports
July 7, 1934: Aloysius Wade
Time: 11:15 p.m. (The autopsy report is available to the 
player the morning of July 8.)
July 9, 1934: Jackson de Young
Remarks: Time of death estimated to be approximately
2:30—3:30 p.m., July 9.

Sleuth Publications, Ltd.
689 Florida Street
San Francisco, CA 94110