Hacienda by Wolfgang Kramer 
Text translated by R Dewsbery 
Illustrations added by P Finch 
 
A game for 2-5 Ranchers from 10 years old. Game length 60-90 mins. 
 
Game Contents 
1 game board: It shows markets, 
pampas (plains), terrain (land) and four 
water fields. You use animal tokens to 
play on the pampas, and the hex tiles 
are played on the land spaces. Markets 
are not occupied by player pieces. The 
victory point track encircles the board. 
There are two sides to the board - one 
side has a symmetrical layout with 10 
markets, the reverse has an 
asymmetrical layout with 11 markets. 
 
80 land cards (14 each of mountain, forest, meadow, rock and moorland. 10 pampas) 
 
 
72 animal cards (18 each of cattle, horse, pig and sheep ) 
 
 
18 water tiles (in 4 different shapes) 
 
 
 
 
 
9 neutral Haciendas 
 
8 Harvest chips 
 
 
80 hexagonal land tiles (in 5 player colours) 
 
 
 
 
 
150 round animal markers in 5 colours (30 
per colour, printed both sides) 
 
 
 
 
5 Haciendas in the 5 player colours 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 rule summaries 
1 rulebook 
 
72 cards for game money (in 
pesos): 20x1, 16x2, 12x5, 
10x10, 8x20, 6x50 

Aim of the Game 
The players are ranchers in Argentina. They acquire land and animals, build haciendas, 
harvest and sell herds of cattle at the market. The winner is the player with the most points 
at the end of the game. Players score by connecting their pieces to markets and to water, by 
having long chains, building haciendas and making money. 
Note – all examples in the text refer to a game played on the symmetrical board. 
 
Preparation 
Open the game board and place it face-up in the centre of the table. For the first game, we 
recommend that you use the symmetrical side. Each player takes 1 Hacienda and 30 animal 
tiles of one colour, 20 pesos starting capital and 1 rule summary card. The Hacienda is 
placed on the starting space of the victory point track. The animal tiles show different 
animals front and back. 
 
The 80 land cards are shuffled. Each player draws a hand of 8 land cards. The remaining 
cards are placed in a face-down pile beside the board. The top 4 cards are turned face-up 
and placed beside the board. 
 
The 72 animal cards are shuffled. Depending upon the number of players in the game, some 
of the cards are placed back in the box without further inspection. 
 
Each player draws a starting hand of 4 animal cards. 4 further cards are turned face-up and 
placed beside the board. The remaining animal cards are divided into two equal stacks. One 
stack is placed next to the face-down land cards, and the second is temporarily set aside (see 
Scoring, below). 
 
All of the hexagonal land tiles are placed in a supply beside the board. 
 
Four size-1 water tiles are put on the 4 water fields on the game board. All the other water 
tiles are placed within easy reach. The neutral Haciendas and the harvest tokens are placed 
beside the game board. Appoint one player as a banker. 
 
Preparation table 
No of players 
Animal cards removed 
Haciendas available 
Harvest tokens 
All 
Water tiles on the board 
4 size-1 on the water spaces 
Water tiles next to the board 
all of the rest 
Land and animal cards available 
4 face-up of each 
 
Each player starts with a Hacienda (on the scoring track), 30 animal tokens, 8 land cards, 4 
animal cards, 20 pesos, 1 rules summary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Red plays a mountain card, and puts 
a red land tile on any empty 
mountain space on the game board. 
 
 
Red plays a pampas card, and puts 1 
of his land tiles on a pampas space 
adjacent to an existing red land tile. 
Structure of play 
Choose a staring player, play clockwise around the table. The player whose turn it is 
performs three actions in any order: buy an item (Hacienda, land card, animal card or water 
tile); play a card (land or animal); play a harvest token. 
1 - Buy an Item 
The bank will sell the following: 
1 land card from the face-down deck 
1 face-up land card 
2 pesos 
3 pesos 
 
 
1 animal card from the face-down deck 
1 face-up animal card 
2 pesos 
3 pesos 
 
 
1 Hacienda 
1 water tile 
 
 
 
Buy a card (it is possible to buy several cards in a turn, each card purchase is one action) - 
The player pays the amount to the bank and takes the card into his hand. It is also possible 
to play either a land or an animal card immediately - but this is a further action! (See playing 
cards, below). If a face-up card was purchased, a new card is drawn immediately from the 
face-down stack, which the player can then buy in a subsequent action by paying the 
required amount (3 pesos) to the bank. 
 
Buy a Hacienda (once per turn only) - The player pays 12 pesos to the bank, takes 1 
Hacienda from the remaining supply, and immediately places it on any of his own tiles - a 
land chain or a herd - that hasn't already got a Hacienda upon it. A Hacienda will score as 
many points during scoring as the size of the land chain or herd that it stands upon. 
 
Buy a water tile (once per turn only) - All water tiles, no matter what size, cost 12 pesos to 
buy. The player pays the amount to the bank, takes 1 water tile of his choice from the 
remaining supply, and immediately places it on a free pampas space, if it is a 1 space tile, or 
on free pampas spaces if it is a larger water tile. Being adjacent to a water tile scores one 
point for each land or animal tile during scoring. 
2 - Play a Card 
 
Land Cards 
A player who plays a land card takes a hexagonal 
land tile of their colour and places it on any empty 
land space on the board of the same type as the 
card played. Note: the land tiles are printed with 
a different player colour on each side. 
 
If the played land card shows a pampas field, the 
player places a hexagonal tile on any free pampas 
space which is adjacent to one of his existing land 
tiles. 
 
It may become impossible to play certain land 

The blue pig herd is adjacent to 
the blue horse herd and the red pig 
herd. 
Blue takes three actions to play 3 
pig cards. The first pig is played 
adjacent to his own land tile (having 
previously played a chain of three). 
With the second pig he connects the 
herd to a market. Blue receives 5 
pesos (3 land tiles + 2 animal tiles = 
5). Blue then places a third pig 
adjacent to the second, which is 
adjacent to a different side of the 
market. This earns 6 pesos (3 land 
tiles + 3 animal tiles = 6). 
cards when there are no more free spaces on the board of that type. When this 
happens, the land card is treated like a pampas card. Eg. If a mountain card is 
played and there are no empty mountain spaces, the player places a land tile on any 
empty pampas space adjacent to one of his existing land tiles. 
 
All cards are put aside once played. 
 
Land chain: Several adjacent land tiles of the same colour on the board represent a 
chain. If the chain is al least 3 spaces long it will score victory points during scoring. 
There are no points for single tiles or for chains of two. 
 
Tip: Try to form land chains with 3 or more tiles. 
 
 
Animal Cards 
 
When an animal card is played, the player takes a 
corresponding animal tile of his colour and places it 
on the board on an empty pampas space which is 
adjacent to one of the player's land tiles or one of 
the player's animal tiles which shows the same 
animal. A herd consists of one or more adjacent 
tiles showing the same type of animal. A herd can 
affect other herds. All animal cards are put aside 
once played. Herds belonging to different players 
may be adjacent 
 
Note: The animal tiles show different animals to the front and back. 
 
Tip: Pay attention when placing animals on the board that enough pampas fields 
remain free on which you can later place a water tile. 
 
Market 
 
If a herd reaches a herd the side of a market, the 
player immediately receives money from the bank. 
If during the turn a herd reaches several sides of a 
market place, it will receive money several times. 
For each side of a marketplace, the player receives 
money once. The amount which the player 
receives is worked out according to the following 
formula: Number of animal tiles in the herd + 
number of land tiles = 1 peso each. For "number 
of land tiles" count all land tiles which are 
connected to the herd (see also Scoring 
Example). 
 
Notes 
• Each side of a marketplace can be used only once. 

• If a player increases a herd without reaching a new market, he receives no extra 
money. 
• A player who reaches a market with a herd - even if the herd consists of just one 
animal tile - is considered to have connected that market. This will score points 
during scoring. 
 
Tip: Try to reach as many markets as possible with your animal tiles. 
3 - Play a Harvest Token (once per round) 
A player can earn money in 2 ways. Either they bring a herd to a market (see above) 
or they play a harvest token. The player takes 1 harvest token from the supply and 
places it on any of his own land chains that does not already have a harvest token. 
 
The player then receives money according to the following formula: Number of land tiles in 
the chain x 3 pesos. Example: 7 land panels x 3 pesos = 21 pesos. 
 
If all the harvest tokens are on the board, a player can still harvest. He takes a chip from 
any chain belonging to another player and places it on one of his own chains. Land chains 
which become "free" in this way can be harvested again later if the owner chooses the 
harvest action, by taking the token from an opponent's chain. 
 
Scoring 
When the last card of the first animal card stack is purchased or turned face-up, the second 
stack which was set aside earlier is brought into play and placed next to the board in the 
place of the depleted stack. At the end of this round, once the last player has finished his 
actions, an intermediate scoring takes place. 
 
When the second stack of animal cards is exhausted, the round is likewise played to the end 
and the game finishes with a final scoring round. 
 
Scoring is carried out in exactly the same way whether it is an intermediate scoring round or 
the end of the game. 
 
First points are awarded for the markets, then for the land chains, then Haciendas, for water 
tiles and finally for money on hand. 
 
The points are tracked using the Hacienda for each player on the victory point track. 
 
The rules summary cards should be referred to. 
 
The more markets a player is connected to, the more points the player will score. It is 
unimportant how many herds are adjacent to the market, or how many sides of the market 
are occupied. Players score points according to the following table: 
 
Markets 
Points 
Example: A player whose herds connect to 7 different markets receives 28 points. 

Note: you don't have to connect two or more markets together, just have herds connected 
to a market to score for it. 
 
Points for land chains are determined for each player. All chains containing 3 or more land 
tiles are counted. Individual land tiles and doubles are not scored! The points are calculated 
according to the following formula: Number of land tiles times 2 points. 
 
Example: A player possesses one 7-space chain and two 3-space chains. In addition he 
has a 2-space chain and 3 individual land tiles. The player scores 7 + 3 + 3 = 13 x 2 = 26 
points. For the 2-space chain and the singles he does not receive any points. 
 
Points for Haciendas. All land tiles in a chain, or all animal tiles in a herd, which has a 
Hacienda upon it are scored. Note: by connecting two of your own land chains it is possible 
that several Haciendas can stand on a single land chain; this chain scores only once. 
Example: A player possesses 2 Haciendas; one stands on a 7-space land chain, and the 
other one stands on a herd which consists of 6 sheep. The player receives 7 + 6 = 13 
points. 
 
Points for water tiles. Each water tile on the board is scored one at a time. For each land 
and/or animal tile which borders a water panel tile, the owner scores 1 point, whether the 
water tile was on the board at the start of the game or has been added later. It doesn't 
matter which player placed the water tile. 
Suggestion - After a water tile has been scored for, turn it face-down. Then, when 
intermediate scoring is complete turn all of the water tiles face-up. This will ensure that no 
water tile is missed. 
 
Money on hand. Each player counts their money. For every 10 pesos a player has, he 
receives 1 point. Example: a player holds 28 pesos. He receives 2 points for this. 
 
Scoring example 
Red's scoring in detail 
 
Markets: Red has connected to 5 markets. The only 
market it did not reach was the one at the top in the 
middle. That results in 15 points. 
 
Land chains: Red has a 4-space chain at the top 
right, and at the bottom left a chain of 3. Those total 
7 land tiles, resulting in 14 points. The 2-space chain 
in the upper left is not scored. 
 
Haciendas: Red has a Hacienda has on its 6-space 
pig herd. That results in 6 points. 
 
Water tiles: The single space water tile on the left 
scores 4 points, the two-space tile beneath scores 6 
points. The three-space tile in the middle scores 1 point and the single water tile in the 

upper right scores 6. The animals which are adjacent to two different water tiles add to the 
score for both water tiles (eg. the pig tokens on the left hand side of the picture, which 
added 1 point each to both the upper and lower water tiles. Accordingly those pigs have 
added 4 points to red's score). 
 
Money: We assume that red has 12 pesos. That results in 1 point. 
 
Player 
Red 
Blue 
Connected markets 
15 points 
10 points 
Land chains 
7 (3 + 4) 
14 points 
10 (7 + 3) 
20 points 
Haciendas 
6 points 
7 + 4 
11 points 
Water tiles 
4 + 6 + 1 + 6 
17 points 
7 + 4 
11 points 
Money 
1 point 
8 pesos 
0 points 
Total 
 
53 points 
 
52 points 
 
Example - a further example of the market, Red has placed the pig tile 
(marked with an arrow) adjacent to a market. It is connected to all the 
other pigs in the herd. Red receives 1 peso for each red pig in the herd, and 
1 peso for each red land tile connected to the herd. There are 6 pig tokens, 
and 5 land tokens connected to the market. Red receives 11 pesos. 
 
 
 
 
Game End 
The game ends after the final scoring. The player with the most victory points wins. Cash in 
hand breaks any ties. 
 
There is a program at www.hans-im-glueck.de which can be used to generate your own 
boards for Hacienda. Explore further tactical possibilities. 
 
Note - the animal chips are not meant to be limited. If a player runs out of tiles of a certain 
animal, he/she may replace other tiles on the board until there are really no animals left (ie. 
all 15 have been placed). Example: you run out of sheep; you can replace an earlier 
horse/sheep tile that was played with the horse-side face-up, with a horse/pig tile and then 
re-use the recovered tile as a sheep.