Players assume the role of influential denizens of the Free and 
Hanseatic City of Hamburg around the year 1890, each with 
the goal of becoming the Mayor the city. To do this, you will 
need to help Hamburg flourish and grow, and by this grow 
your influence and status.
You must use your cards to prepare sites then construct 
buildings on them, expand the city’s zoo and gardens, and 
and repair the city wall. The buildings you construct will help 
you earn money and victory points, or could give you special 
abilities.
The player with the most victory points at the end of the game 
will be the new Mayor of the city and the winner of the game.
A game for 1 - 5 players, ages 14 and up.
Game Description

• 1 Game Board
• 1 “Planten un Blomen”
 Display board
• 1 Coat of Arms & 1 Stefan Feld figure
• 280 Playing cards
• 75 Workers
• 30 “1 mark” coins
• 10 “3 marks” coins
• 10 Intrigue tokens
• 50 Wall Segments
• 6 Dice
• 4 Time tokens
• 40 Activation markers
• 8 Clerics*
• 8 “Hans Hummel” 
• 1 Rules booklet
• 1 Addendum containing card & tiles explanations
Before your first game, place 
each statue in a stand.
15 workers each of the colors purple, orange, grey, pink, and brown.
Disasters (Reverse): Flood, Fire, Decay, Unrest, and Disease.
Front:
Assemble before your first game.
Of the same five colors as the cards plus one black die
There are 12 cards of each of the following categories: Art 
Government 
, Bank 
, Church 
, Circus 
, Civic 
Emigration 
, Entertainment 
, Craft 
, Harbor 
, Medicine
Industry 
, Military 
, Mysticism 
f
, Police 
, Secret Society 
Theater 
, Commerce 
, Underworld 
, University 
 and 
20 cards each of Zoo 
 and Park 
.
The front and back sides of the cards have special icons related to the colors 
of the cards intended for players with difficulties discerning colors. You will 
find the same icons on the game board, the display board, and the player 
boards.
Front:
Reverse:
Game components
grey
brown
orange
pink
purple

• 1 Player board
• 1 “100/200” Tile
• 1 City tower*
• 2 Player Pawns*
• 5 Mayor tiles
• 12 Cleric Tiles
• 10 Special Intrigue tokens
• 6 Ships*
• 10 Stock exchange tiles
• 1 Stock 
exchange 
price tracker*
• 2 “Hans Hummel” 
• 3 “Lemonjette” 
• 2 Summary cards: Showing game phases, standard actions, and final scoring.
• 5 Majority Tokens
• 15 Disaster level markers
Player Components (one set each in player colors red, green, yellow, blue, and white)
Expansion 6: The Cleric Tiles
Expansion 3: Special Intrigue
Expansion 2: Hans Hummel and the Zitronenjette
Before your first game, 
place each statue in a 
stand.
City Hall Square, Zoo, Buildings, Victory Points, and City Wall
3 each of: Flood, Fire, Decay, Unrest, and Disease
Before your first 
game, place each ship 
in a stand. Ships come 
in the same five colors 
as the cards, plus one 
black ship.
This chapter shows both the material of the DELUXE-Version* as well as the 
CLASSIC-Version. From here on, only the material of the DELUXE-Version* is used 
in the illustrations. The DELUXE material can also be purchased separately. Further 
information on pages 22-23.

A) The game board:
1) Place the game board in the center of the playing area. It is subdivided into the following five areas.
The City Hall and City Hall Square and the Binnenalster
 Refer to the table below for which statues will be needed based on player count, 
and place them next to the board in descending order of victory points (points).
Place the statue with the most points on the 
octagonal space to the left of the 
City Hall Square.
 Place the six dice on the Binnenalster 
to the right of the City Hall. 
8 points
6 points
3 points
2 players
3 players
4 players
5 players
St. Michael’s Church
5) Place the 8 clerics on the space to the right of St. Michael’s Church. 
6) Stack the 4 Time tokens in ascending order (1 o’clock on top, 4 o’clock at the bottom) on 
the designated space of the church spire.
The Speicherstadt (Warehouse district)
7) Sort the workers by color and place them on the five matching houses in the top row 
of the Speicherstadt.
8) Put the coins on the large building below the houses (30 x 1 mark, 10 x 3 marks). 
9) Put the ten intrigue tokens on the burning house, black side up. 
 Stack the 50 wall segments on the construction site below the burning house.
The Harbor
1 We recommend playing your first game of Hamburg without “The Ships” 
(Expansion 4). Leave this area blank, and the ships remain in the game box. 
If you want to use the ships, please continue reading on page 17.
The Stock Exchange
1 We recommend playing your first game of Hamburg without 
“The Stock exchange” (Expansion 5). Leave this area blank, and the stock exchange tiles and 
stock exchange price tracker remain in the game box. If you want to use the stock exchange, 
please continue reading on page 18.
B) The “Planten un Blomen” Card Display:
 Put the display board next to the game board.
 Sort the cards by the color on their back border, shuffle the stacks separately, and place them 
facedown on the designated spaces as draw decks.
 Draw the top card from each draw pile, shuffle these cards, and place them next to the display board 
as a discard pile.
 Put the 40 activation markers on the display board as a common supply.
St. Michael’s Church
The Stock Exchange
Game setup (base game) – Example for 4 players

C) Setup of player components:
Choose a player color. Take the player board of this color 
plus the following components: 
17) One “100/200” tile; place it on the “100” space of the victory 
points track, “100” side up.
19) One Game Phases and 1 “Standard actions” summary card; 
attach them to the bottom edge of your player board. They are 
double-sided, on the back of the Standard Actions card you can find 
the final scoring.
20) Fifteen disaster level markers; place three of each next to each 
other on the cutout spaces of your board of the same color and move 
them to the left. 
21) One city tower; place it at the center of the wall on the player 
board.
22) Two pawns; place one on the starting space of the same color of the 
City Hall Square, the other one on space “5” of the victory points track.
Return any player components of unused players color(s) to the game box.
24) Finally, each player receives: 
• Five majority tokens; place them on the matching oval spaces on 
your player board, colored side down.
• Five marks, keeping them next to your board. 
• One worker of each color. Put the workers on the matching 
colored houses of your board.
Note: If you are playing with “The Mayors” 
(Expansion 1), take workers and money 
 according to the mayor tiles, not as specified 
above. 
Now, you can start the game.
The player who knows the meaning of “Hummel, Hummel – Mors, Mors” takes the 
Coat of Arms (or choose to use the Stefan Feld figure) and starts the game. 
If nobody knows, choose a first by player by any means.
The player holding the Coat of Arms/the Stefan Feld figure is the first player. 
When during the game the players are to perform various actions in turn order, the first player always starts, 
with other players following in clockwise order.
The City Hall
The Binnenalster
The Speicherstadt
The Harbor

The game is played over eight seasons. At the end of the eighth season the final scoring takes place.
Each season consists of 4 phases:
General Rule: In case any rules on cards or tiles are different from or contradict the rules in this rulebook, the rules on cards or 
tiles have priority. You may find further explanations in the Addendum. 
Note: You may activate specific buildings from your own display during each of these four phases. You can read further details on how to 
do this on page 14 “Activation of buildings.”
Example: Patricia has 1 card left from the previous round and draws 
4 cards. She chooses to take 2 purple, 1 grey, and 1 pink.
Example: 
Beate rolls the six 
dice and places 
them on the 
corresponding 
spaces of the 
Binnenalster.
1. Replenish your hand to five cards,
2. Possibly gain income from any “Park” cards.
1. Roll all six dice and place them on the
 Binnenalster,
2. Deploy a cleric to the church,
3. Increase disaster level for dice showing 
“5” and “6.”
4. Players choose (if possible) to advance one 
space on the City Hall Square.
• This phase is played over 4 rounds.
• During each round, the players play one card from their 
hand and use it to perform one of six standard actions.
1. Check for all five majorities,
2. Move the cleric for the round down to the floor of the 
 church.
3. Remove all activation markers from cards 
 on your own display.
4. Pass the Coat of Arms to the the next player on the left.
Playing the Game
In turn order, players draw cards from whichever draw pile they 
choose until they have 5 cards in their hand.
Drawn cards should be placed facedown in front of the player 
without looking at them, and only added to the player’s hand once all 
cards are drawn.
Your hand limit at the end of replenishing your hand is 5 cards.
Note: After the first season you will usually have cards left over in 
your hand from the previous seasons, meaning that you might draw 
fewer than 5 cards, since you only draw up to your hand limit.
After taking the cards into your hand, you gain the rewards of any 
Park cards you have played in a previous round. 
Note: Cards that you add to your hand due to a Park card effect do 
not count towards your hand limit.
If a draw pile is exhausted, no more cards of this color can be drawn 
for the rest of the game. 
1st step: Roll the six dice
The first player rolls the six dice, placing each on the matching 
space on the Binnenalster section of the game board. 
This die roll will be used by all players. 
Perform the following steps simultaneously or in current player 
order where it applies.
Perform the following steps in this order:

2nd step: Deploy a cleric to the church
Place one cleric on the church window showing the same number 
as the result of the black die.
Each church window is associated with 4 of the domains (except 
black, which only has 2). During final scoring, each building to the 
right of a player’s board and each “Zoo” or “Park” card to the left 
of a player’s board yields 1 additional point for each cleric on the 
floor below that domain.
Example: 
Frank must move 
a pink and a grey 
disaster level token on 
his player board to the 
right.
Example: Patricia takes an intrigue token and flips it. It shows a brown 
 disaster, so she must move the rightmost brown disaster level token on her 
player board to the right.
Example: According to the die results the cost is 1 + 2 + 1 = 4. Alex pays 4 
marks to the Speicherstadt, then moves his red pawn on the City Hall Square 1 
space forward.
3rd step: Increase disasters
Each die result of a “5” or “6” increases the disaster track for the 
corresponding color. To do this, move the square marker of the 
same color to the left of the empty space one space to the right on 
every player’s board. Each disaster has three levels, and triggers 
when the empty space is on the farthest left.
Intrigue: If the result of the black die is a “5” or “6,” each player 
randomly takes an intrigue token from the burning house before 
evaluating other disasters. The reverse side of these tokens display 
one of the 5 other disaster colors on the player board. Each player 
must increase by one level the disaster depicted on their intrigue 
token.
Discard all intrigue tokens in a face up pile next to the game board. 
Once all markers have been taken from the game board, shuffle all 
of the used ones and place them facedown on the burning house.
Notes:
• Refer to page 15 for the effects of the disasters.
• If you are playing with “The Ships” expansion, activate the ships 
at this point (see page 17.)
4th step: Advance one space on the City Hall Square
Each player may choose if they would like to advance one space
on the City Hall track; the cost to do so depends on the die results.
The sum of the pips showing on all “1” and “2” results is added 
together to determine the cost in marks each player must pay to 
advance their pawn one space towards the City Hall.
Advancing your pawn is always optional. In player order, each 
player may decide to pay the cost and advance their pawn one space.
If no “1” or “2” results are rolled, then advancing is not 
possible this round.
The closer to the City Hall the player’s pawn moves, the more 
points they will earn at the end of the game. Once a player’s pawn 
reaches the last space (which is worth 18 points), they do not 
advance any more, and instead earn 4 points immediately each 
time they would have advanced their pawn.

Anatomy and explanation of the cards
In this game both sides of the cards are relevant. The reverse side of all cards show construction sites, differing only by their frame colors. 
The front sides show different buildings, parks, or zoo animals.
The colors of the cards
There are five different colors (grey, brown, orange, pink, purple). 
The same color is featured on both sides of a card. To help players 
with difficulty discerning colors, each color is represented by a speci-
fic symbol. You will find these symbols on other components as well.
grey
brown
orange
pink
purple
Ability
Each building in your own display grants a special ability or benefit 
when activated. These are represented by icons at the bottom of the 
card.
Card number
Each of the 280 cards is numbered. In the addendum you will find 
references to these numbers for a more extensive description of the 
card abilities.
Cost
The left side of the card above the banner shows the cost in marks 
to construct the card as a building (on a already built site on the 
right side of your tableau), or as park or zoo on the left side of your 
tableau.
Victory points
The right edge of the card above the banner shows the victory points 
the player will gain if the card is still in the player’s display at the end 
of the game.
Activation icon
On the left side of the banner is found one of seven activation icons 
that indicate when the card may be activated. Detailed explanations of 
these icons may be found on page 14.
Category
Each card correlates to one of 22 categories, represented by a central 
icon above the other icons. These are: Art 
, Government 
Bank 
, Church 
, Circus 
, Civic 
, Emigration 
 Entertainment 
, Craft 
, Harbor 
, Medicine
, Industry 
Military 
, Mysticism 
, Police 
, Secret Society 
Theater 
, Commerce 
, Underworld 
, University 
(12 cards each) and Zoo 
 and Park 
 (20 cards each).
Building/Zoo/Park (Front)
Card Color
Ability
Card number
Cost
Victory points
Activation icon
Category
Construction site (Back)

This is the core of each season. This phase consists of 4 action rounds.
General rules for this phase:
• The active player plays one card from their hand and uses it to perform one of the six standard actions.
• During this phase, each player performs four actions in total. These can be four different actions 
 or the same action(s) multiple times.
• Additionally, the active player may activate any buildings from their display showing the “III” icon. 
 After completing the action on the card, the activation icon is covered with an activation marker.
• This phase ends after 4 rounds.
Important: Each time the first player takes their turn, they must remove the top time token from the stack 
on the church spire and place it on the discard space below. This way all players can easily see which 
round is currently being played. When the last time token is removed, the 4th round in this phase ends.
A player must perform one of the following standard actions for each played card:
 Take three workers
 Take money
 Decrease one disaster AND gain 1 point
 Construct one wall segment
 Play one construction site on their display (back of the card)
 Construct one building (front of the card)
Specific rules for Zoo and Park cards
Zoo and Park cards are not buildings, do not require construction sites to build, and are placed on the left side of the player board. 
However, they may still be used as construction sites and placed construction site side up on the right side if the player chooses.
Note: Since Zoo and Park cards are not buildings, they are not included when “buildings” are referenced in this rules or the addendum.
Benefit of “Zoo” cards:
Zoo cards have a better 
cost/points ratio. They do not 
require a site to be placed in your 
display, and they have their own 
majority token.
Benefit of “Park” cards:
The “Park” cards do not require a site to be 
placed in your display.
Park cards may be activated once at the 
end of Phase I of each season, granting 
points, money, workers, or cards of a certain 
color. An activated card is marked with an 
activation marker.
Spcae for Zoo animals & Parks
Space for buildings

Example: When Ulrich wants to build his next wall segment, he has to build 
it on either the brown space (left, for 2 marks) or the orange one (right, for 1 
mark).
cost
The standard actions in detail
Place the card face up in the discard pile, take three workers of 
the same color as the played card, and place the workers on the 
appropriate space of your player board. 
Note: Workers are not limited; in case there are no more workers 
of a certain color use any suitable substitute.
Place the card face up on the discard pile and take as many marks
from the Speicherstadt as the result of the die of the same color 
as the played card.
Put the money next to your player board. 
Note: Coins are not limited; if needed use any suitable substitute.
Example: Beate plays a purple card, takes three purple workers, and places 
them on the purple houses of her player board.
Example: Frank plays a grey card, takes 5 marks from the Speicherstadt, and 
places the money next to his player board.
Place the card face up on the discard pile, then move the disaster 
marker (of the same color as the played card) to the right of the 
empty space one space to the left (if possible), thus decreasing the 
disaster level.
Important: Each time you decrease a disaster either by this 
 standard action or by activating a building, you gain 1 point 
 immediately, and move your pawn on the victory points track 1 
space forward. If you are unable to decrease the disaster level, you 
do not gain the point.
Each player owns a part of Hamburg’s city wall on their player 
board, one half to the left and one half to the right of their city 
tower. 
Each half consist of five segments, and each segment has a color 
designated.
Players are attempting to build these 10 wall segments, starting 
with the two on the right and left of the city tower. 
Further wall segments are constructed out from the previously 
constructed ones (or the tower), so there is always a maximum of 
two segments to choose from.
Example: Patricia plays a brown card, places it on the discard pile, and moves 
the disaster marker to the right of the empty space one space to the left. 
She gains 1 point, and moves her pawn 1 space forward on the victory point 
track.
 Take three workers
 Take money
 Decrease one disaster AND gain 1 point
 Construct one wall segment
 
 
 
 

To perform this standard action, choose one of the eligible 
segments and discard a card of the same color face up to the 
discard pile, paying the cost in marks as shown on the segment. 
Finally, place a wall piece on the segment. 
If you have built the third segment of the left or right half of your 
city wall, you will gain 3 points for each of these segments at the 
end of the game. 
As soon as a player builds the last segment of one half, take the 
current (highest valued) statue from the game board and place it on 
the designated place of the player board.
Then, place the next “Hans Hummel” statue on its octagonal 
space on the game board. At the end of the game, each statue on a 
player’s board is worth its printed points.
Note: The octagonal space with the female silhoutte is used only if 
you play with expansion 2 “Hans Hummel and the Lemonjette.”
Example: Alex plays a brown card and places a wall segment on the brown 
segment of his city wall. He must pay 3 marks to build this segment.
Example: Frank builds his fifth wall segment on the right side of his player 
board and therefore gains the current statue from the game board. The free 
space on the game board now is filled with the next most valuable statue.
Example: Ulrich adds a pink card to his display as a construction site and 
returns one of his pink workers to the Speicherstadt.
Example: In the next round, Beate plays a purple building on her previously 
added site. She pays 9 marks, returning the coins to the Speicherstadt and 
takes an activation marker from the supply.
Add one card from your hand to your display on the right side of 
your player board, construction site (back) side up.
When you do so, you must return one worker of that site’s color
to the common supply in the Speicherstadt. 
To construct a building, the player must have an empty construction 
site of any color; each site may accommodate only one building. The 
player plays one building card (front) side up onto the empty site, 
leaving the site color visible, and pays the cost of the card.
When you do so, you must pay the costs shown on the played card. 
Put the money in the Speicherstadt. 
Each site can accomodate one building. The building may be of a 
different color than the site it is built on.
If the ability may only be activated once per season, 
take an activation marker and from the supply and place it next to the 
 Play one construction site 
 Construct a Building
 
 

Perform the following steps in this order, noting that some buildings may be activated during this phase (
or 
).
1) Check for majorities
First, check which player may flip one or more of their majority tokens to its active (colored) side. There are five categories for which 
players may gain a majority, and the same rules apply for all categories:
Note: These two rules may be altered by certain cards.
• A player may flip their marker only if they alone have the 
exclusive majority by having more in a category than all other 
players. If more than than one player are tied then no players gain 
the majority. Flipped markers earn the players points at the end of 
the game.
• Once flipped, that majority token remains with its colored side up 
for the rest of the game, even if that player in the future loses the 
majority. If another player gains the exclusive majority in a future 
round, they will flip their majority marker. This means that at the 
end of the game, several players may have markers of the same 
types with their active side up on their player boards.
Check the following one after the other:
City Hall Square: The player furthest 
ahead on the City Hall Square solely
may flip their “City Hall Square” 
majority token to its colored side.
Buildings: The player with the most 
constructed buildings in their display to 
the right of their player board may flip 
the “Buildings” majority token to its 
The city wall: The player who has built 
the most segments of the wall may flip 
their “City Wall” majority token to its 
Victory Points: A player solely in the 
lead on the victory point track may flip 
their “Victory points” majority token 
“Zoo” Cards: The player with the most 
“Zoo” cards to the left of their player 
board may flip the “Zoo” majority 
token to its colored side. 
Example: Alex’s red pawn 
is farther ahead than any 
other player on the City 
Hall Square. He flips 
his “City Hall Square” 
majority token to its 
Example: Both Alex and 
Ulrich have two buildings 
in their display, Beate 
has three. Beate flips her 
“Buildings” majority token 
Alex
Alex
Ulrich
Ulrich
Beate
Beate
Example: Both Beate 
and Alex have built two 
segments, while Frank 
(white) has built three. 
Frank flips his “City 
Wall” majority token to its 
Example: Beate’s blue 
pawn is in first position on 
the victory points track; 
she flips her “Victory 
points” majority token to 
its colored side.
Example: Alex has one zoo 
card in his display, Beate 
has two, and Ulrich has 
four zoo cards. Ulrich flips 
his “Zoo” majority token 

2) Move the cleric to the floor of the church
3) Remove activation markers
4) New first player
Move the cleric for this season from the church window to the space 
below that window on the floor of the church.
All players remove any activation markers from their buildings, 
returning them to their personal supply next to their player board. 
These buildings can be activated again in the next season.
The player currently holding the first player marker passes it to their 
left neighbor. The next season starts.
= 2 SP
= 2 SP
= 0 
= 9 
= 2 
After the eighth season is complete (when all clerics are on the floor of the chuch), the game ends and the players proceed to final scoring. 
Each player gains additional points for the following:
Each card (building/zoo/park) in a player’s display is worth its printed points.
Each building in a player’s display with a “Laurel Wreath” yields points according to its ability.
Each active majority token is worth 4 points.
Each player who has built the third wall segment on either side of their city wall gains 3 points per side. Each “Hans 
Hummel” statue is worth its printed points.
Each cleric on the floor of the church grants 1 point for each building/zoo/park belonging to that category in a player’s display.
Finally, players gain points according to their pawn’s position on the City Hall Square.
The players move their pawn on the victory points track to mark the points they have gained. If a player passes the “100” space they take 
the “100/200” tile of their player color and put it in front of them, “100” side up. In case a player should manage to gain more than 200 
points, they flip this tile to its “200” side.
The player with the most victory points is the winner of the game and is the new Supreme Mayor of the Free and Hanseatic City of 
Hamburg. In case of a tie, the tied player with the most money is the winner. If the tie persists, the tied players share the victory. Congra-
tulate the winners!
Example of final scoring:
Patricia has already earned 61 points during the game. During final scoring she adds 
the following: 
1) She has four buildings, 1 zoo, and 1 park in her display, 
worth 2 + 1 + 3 + 3 + 0 + 0 = 9 points.
2) Her two buildings with a “Laurel Wreath” give her 2 points each = 4 points.
3) Patricia has flipped both her “City Hall Square” and “Victory points” majority 
tokens to their active side, and gains 4 points for each = 8 points.
4) She has built one of her third city wall segments = 3 points.
5) There are three clerics on the pink space in front of the church. Patricia’s three pink 
buildings are worth an extra 9 points. For the one cleric on the black space she earns 2 
points for her zoo and park.
6) Her pawn on the City Hall Square is on the fifth space = 7 points.
Patricia gains 42 points during final scoring. 
Adding to her score before, her total is 103 points.
End of the game and final scoring 

The current player may activate any cards from their own display. Cards may be activated during each of the four phases and during final 
scoring, with the printed activation icon on each card indicating during which phase it can be activated, and doing so may change the 
standard game rules. 
Note: You cannot activate a “Zoo” card.
These buildings are used for final scoring if they are in the 
player’s display at the end of the game.
These buildings are considered active for the whole game and 
always enhance the action depicted to the left of the colon. You 
do not put an activation marker on the card.
You can activate such a building once per season during the 
indicated Phase. The activation costs money or requires specific 
conditions. Place an activation marker on the card after performing 
the action.
Note concerning Phase III: 
You may activate a building before or after your standard action, 
and you may activate some cards before your action, and others 
after your action. You may even activate a building that you have 
just played during this turn.
When adding this card to your display during Phase III, it is 
 activated once (only) immediately. You cannot activate it again at 
any later point.
Laurel Wreath:
Any number of times in certain phase:
Once in certain phase:
Instant:
All cards are explained in detail in the addendum. You can search for each card under their unique number (printed in the left hand corner).
Example: If you build this building, you immediately gain 1 pink worker and 
3 marks.
Example: In each season during Phase III take 2 marks.
Example: Whenever the player builds an orange building, they only have to 
pay half of its cost (rounded up).
Example: At the end of the game during final scoring you will get 1 point per 2 
workers on your player board.
Activating Cards

You must return one segment from your city wall to the Speicher-
stadt (if you have built at least one already). It must be from an 
end, such that you do not create a gap in the wall. 
If you remove the 5th segment from one of the two sides, you do 
not have to return the statute you had gained for it; however, you 
do not gain another one if you rebuild the segment.
Decay:
Fire:
Unrest:
Disease:
Flood:
You must discard one building of your choice from your display. 
The card is placed on the discard pile, but the construction site is 
not discarded.
You must return all your money to the Speicherstadt.
You must return all workers from your player board to the 
You must discard one site of your choice from your display to the 
discard pile.
If there is constructed building on that site, return it to your hand.
The effect of one of the five disasters occurs immediately if a player has to move the third disaster level marker of a specific color on 
their player board to the right so that the warning triangle is now visible. The effect depends on the type of disaster:
After resolving the effect of a disaster, move all three level markers for this disaster to the left, covering over the warning triangle again. 
In this case you do not earn any points for decreasing the disaster level.
Note: It may happen that a player is hit by several disasters at the same time. In that case the player choose the order in which they occur.
Example: Patricia has to return a wall segment. She chooses the one on the 
far left side, since she wants to keep the 3 points for the final scoring from her 
right side wall.
Example: Ulrich has to 
discard a building due to a 
fire, and may choose between 
his two buildings. He keeps 
the site it was built on.
Example: Beate loses one site due to the 
Flood. She only has one site built which 
has a building on it. Therefore she puts 
the site on the discard pile and take its 
building back into her hand.
The effects of disasters

Example: Frank has 
completed the left side 
of his wall and may now 
choose 1 statute. He takes 
the Lemonjette and gets 9 
marks immediately from the 
Example: Patricia plays with the Mayor Carl Friederich Petersen (side 01) and 
gets 10 marks and 2 workers of each color at the start of the game.
Example: In phase I, Patricia will draw up to 7 cards, instead of 5.
This expansion provides different starting conditions for the players and grants each player a special ability. The changes to the standard 
game play are detailed below.
The five mayor tiles will be shuffled unseen and each player draws 
one random tile; remove any remaining tiles from the game.
The mayor tiles are double-sided, with a unique combination of 
workers and money plus a special ability on each side. Each player 
decides which side of their drawn tile to use and places it next to 
the bottom edge of their player board, chosen side up.
Then, each player takes their individual combination of workers 
and money from the Speicherstadt.
The players may use their special ability anytime during the game 
as desired.
The abilities have impacts on hand limit, standard actions, 
activations, avoiding disasters, etc.
The overview and explanation of all mayor tiles can be found 
in the addendum.
When playing with this expansion, “Hans Hummel” will grant additional victory points, and “Lemonjette” provides money. 
The rules for statues as explained above remain unchanged. However, 
there are two statues on the game board now.
Whenever a player is eligible to take a statue they choose one of the 
two, placing it on their player board. Unlike gaining extra points at 
the end of the game from Hans Hummel statues, the players receive 
money from the Lemonjette stautuettes immediately.
Refer to the table on the right to determine which 
“Hans Hummel” statues will be used, depending on player count. 
Place the new statues of Hans Hummel next to the others, victory 
points descending. 
All three “Lemonjette” statues will be used always. 
Place the 10-point statue on the octagonal space to the left of the 
City Hall Square and the 12 marks “Lemonjette” statue next to it.
Expansion 2: Hans Hummel and the Zitronenjette
10 points
8 points
6 points
3 points
2 players
3 players
4 players
5 players

Example: Ulrich plays a pink card and builds one wall segment of his city 
wall. There are two active ships, and he decides for the brown one, which 
allows him to activate one building with an ‟instant” icon. He returns one 
pink worker to the Speicherstadt. 
The grey die shows a “3,” 
and the brown one a “4.” 
Both the grey and the 
brown ship are moved to 
their berth at the dock and 
are active now. 
Example: You must increase the disaster level of 
both Flood and Decay.
Example: You have to increase the disaster level of 
Unrest, but also gain 1 point.
This expansion makes it more attractive to build the city wall. When a player builds a wall segment, they may immediately perform the 
action of an active ship.
Each ship corresponds to the color of a die. A ship in the roadstead 
(between the bollards) is not active, but may be activated in 
Phase II after the “Increase disasters” step if the die of its color on 
the Binnenalster shows a “3” or “4.”
To indicate that the ship is active move it to its berth at the dock.
If a player performs the standard action “Construct one wall 
segment,” after completing the action they may use the effect of an 
activated ship of any color, even one that is different than the color 
of the played card. If multiple ships are active, the player may 
choose which one to use. To use its effect, the player must return
1 worker of the played card’s color from their player board to the 
Note: You may not use an activated ship if you built a wall segment 
due to the activation of a building.
In Phase IV return all active ships from their berth on the docks to 
their bollard no matter if they had been used or not.
Place the six ships on their matching colored spaces in the harbor 
between the wooden bollards (anchored in the roadstead).
The overview and explanation of all ships can be found in the Addendum.
When playing with this expansion, the effects of black disasters may be worse, but could provide a small benefit as well.
Five of the new markers demand an increase of two disaster levels 
of different colors. The other five new markers are similar to the 
basic ones, but additionally grant a bonus like extra cards, points, 
workers, or money.
The overview and explanation of the new markers can be found in the addendum.
Mix the additional intrigue tokens with those of the base game and 
place all of them black side up on the burning house.
Expansion 3: Special Intrigue
not active
active

The overview and explanation of all stock exchange tiles can be found in the addendum.
With this expansion, the players gain benefits and in some cases penalties when performing their standard actions. 
Each stock exchange tile references a standard action which may 
be used in Phase III. When choosing this action, the player must
apply the effect of the stock exchange tile.
The effects on the left edge of the green side and on the right edge 
of the red side have an impact on the action shown on that tile. 
When the marker is on the left (green) side, the player’s action 
is increased by the amount indicated in the arrow pointing at the 
marker. When the marker is on the right (red) side, the action 
strength is decreased by the indicated amount.
After a player has completed a standard action that is indicated on 
the stock exchange tile, they move the tracker to the next space 
clockwise. 
Note: The effect applies only when a player chooses the depicted 
action and not when performing that action due to the activation of 
a building.
When moving the marker from “3” to “4,” flip the stock exchange 
tile to its red side.
When the marker is moved from “6” to “1,” remove the current 
stock exchange tile from the game; the green tile now visible is the 
new active tile.
This means that a stock exchange tile may be active for longer 
than one season.
Mix the 10 stock exchange tiles and stack them on the space in 
front of the stock exchange, green side up. 
Place the price tracker on space “1” at the bottom left.
Example: Beate performs the standard action “Take 3 workers.” Because the 
price tracker is on the 3rd space she gains 2 additional workers, thus taking 5. 
Then, she moves the price tracker to space “4” and flips the stock exchange 
tile to its red side.
From space 6 to 1:
Left edge:
 Right edge:

Example: In Phase II Patricia decides to advance one space on the City Hall 
Square. Because the purple cleric tiles is active and she needs to pay 2 fewer 
marks. Normally she would pay 1 + 2 + 2 = 5 marks due to the die results, but 
only pays 3 instead. Then, she advances her pawn 1 space.
When playing with this expansion, the clerics grant not only points during final scoring, but provide some benefits or drawbacks during the 
game as well. Attention: It is not recommended to play with both “The stock exchange” and “The cleric-tiles”.
As usual in Phase II, place one cleric on the church window 
showing the same number as the result of the black die. 
Only this tile with the cleric on it is active during this season. 
An active cleric tile has an impact on the action of a specific phase.
Note: The effect applies only when a player performs the shown 
standard action and not when performing that action due to the 
activation of a building.
In Phase IV the cleric for this season is moved from the church 
window on the floor of the church as usual. Additionally, 
immediately flip the cleric tile.
This means that during the course of the game a tile may be active 
multiple times, but with different effects.
The overview and explanation of all cleric tiles can be found in the addendum.
All cleric tiles are double-sided, with one negative and one 
 positive side. The first player randomly takes six tiles and drops 
them onto the table. 
These tiles are placed randomly in the six windows of the church, 
1 tile per window, with the current side up. The tiles should cover 
the “+1 point” printed on the windows. Put the rest of the cleric 
tiles back into the game box.
Expansion 6: The Cleric-Tiles
Before the final scoring takes place, all six cleric tiles will be removed from the curch windows, so that the scoring of the clerics can take 
place.
End of game & final scoring

Solo rules
You play against an auTOMatic opponent (called TOM), who is controlled by dice. The usual rules apply with the following changes.
The solo game is played over eight seasons as well, and each season is played as follows:
Both the player and TOM start with five marks and one worker 
in each color.
Do not assign the Coat of Arms.
Set up the four statues of Hans Hummel as in a 2-player-game:
10 points
Base game
With Expansion 2
Unlike you, TOM does not receive any cards.
1st step: Roll the six dice
3rd step: Increase disasters
2nd step: Deploy a cleric to the church
4th step: Advance one space on the City Hall Square
You roll all six dice and place them on the matching spaces of the 
Binnenalster on the game board.
Increase and resolve disasters as usual both for yourself and 
for TOM. If TOM needs to discard a building, he takes the one 
with the lowest cost. In case of multiple choices he removes the 
leftmost of these from his display.
Deploy the cleric to the church as usual. TOM gains as many 
marks as the result of the black die.
TOM always advances one space on the city hall square if he has 
sufficient money to do so.
You may decide whether or not to advance as usual.
TOM always takes the first turn. His standard actions are determined by the dice. You resolve the actions according to the colored dice 
(except the black one) in ascending order of the results from 1 to 6. In case of a tie proceed in clockwise direction of the tied dice on the 
Binnenalster, starting from the purple die.
 1’s:
TOM gains 1 point for each die result of “1.”
 2’s:
TOM gains 2 workers of the same color as the die for each die 
result of “2.”

Calculate final scores as usual. Did you manage to perform better than TOM?
You resolve all immediate and permanent effects from TOM’s cards in favor of him. TOM activates all his buildings that he can activate 
with workers, going from left to right in his display, but only those for which he can return the required worker. If he needs to make a 
decision, choose the one which is not advantageous for him.
Then, you perform your turn as usual, playing four cards one after the other, performing one standard action with each card.
End of game & final scoring
 3’s:
For each die result of “3” TOM may construct a wall segment if 
the color is matching and he can pay for it.
If TOM cannot build, he gains 1 worker of that color instead.
 4’s:
For each die result of “4” TOM decreases the disaster level of 
that color and gains 1 point for each level decreased.
If TOM has no disasters of that color, he returns one worker of 
that color and adds a site of that color (from the draw pile) to his 
display.
If this is not possible as well, he gains 4 marks for each unused 
result of “4.”
 5’s:
For each die result of “5” TOM constructs a building by drawing 
the top card of that color from the draw pile. If he has no empty 
site or not enough money, he plays the drawn card as a site instead. 
If this is not possible as well (because he has no worker of that 
color) the card will be discarded and he gains 5 marks for each 
unused result of “5.”
Note: If the drawn card is a zoo or park and he can build it, it will 
be placed on the left side of his player board (without a site beneath 
it).
 6’s:
For each die result of “6” TOM constructs a building/zoo/park 
(see above). If he cannot do so (see above), he constructs a wall 
segment (see above). If this is not possible as well, he gains 6 
marks for each unused result of “6.”
There are no changes to this phase. Do not change the first player.

sfcc.queen-games.com

© Copyright 2021 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.
Index
Game components 
 page 2-3
Game setup 
 page 4-5
 page 6
 page 6-7
Anatomy and explanation of the cards 
 page 8-9
 page 9-11
 page 12-13
End of the game and final scoring 
 page 13
Activating Cards 
 page 14
The effects of disasters 
 page 15
 page 16
Expansion 2: Hans Hummel & the Zitronenjette 
 page 16
Expansion 3: Special Disasters
 page 17
 page 17
 page 18
Expansion 6: The Cleric-Tiles 
 page 19
Solo rules 
 page 20-21

Index
Addendum
Basic terms on cards 
 Page 2
Card icons 
 Page 2
Summary of cards: Nos. 001-030 
 Page 3
Summary of cards: Nos. 031-059 
 Page 4
Summary of cards: Nos. 060-084 
 Page 5
Summary of cards: Nos. 085-110 
 Page 6
Summary of cards: Nos. 111-137 
 Page 7
Summary of cards: Nos. 138-161 
 Page 8
Summary of cards: Nos. 162-188 
 Page 9
Summary of cards: Nos. 189-215 
 Page 10
Summary of cards: Nos. 216-234 
 Page 11
Summary of cards: Nos. 235-280 
 Page 12
Summary of the cleric tiles
Page 13
Summary of stock exchange tiles
Pages 14-15
Summary of Special Disasters
Page 15
Summary of the mayor tiles
Page 16
Summary of ships
Page 16

2×
Basic terms & card icons
General rule: All instructions on cards refer to the player's own display (player board and the cards to the left and to the right of it) or own hand cards. Some exemptions 
refer explicitly to the display or hand cards of other players.
Basic terms on cards
The icons
Draw 1 or 2 cards: You draw always the top card of the draw pile of your choice. When 
drawing more than 1 card, you may draw from different piles.
Town Hall Square: This is the area in front of the Town Hall, where each player's pawn 
advances to the Town Hall.
Building: Generally, this is the front side of a card, except the "ZOO" and "PARK" cards.
Construction site: This is the back side of all cards.
Select 1 "[Category]" card: Take the discard pile, look through it and take a specific 
card. Shuffle the pile and put it back.
Take 1 "ZOO" or "PARK" card: Take the specified draw pile, look through it, and take 
a specific card. Shuffle the pile and put it back.
Gain x points: Advance x spaces on the victory points track.
Take/gain x marks: Take x marks from the Speicherstadt and add the money to your 
personal supply next to your player board.
Return 1 "[color]" worker: Remove the worker of that color from your personal supply 
and put it back on the Speicherstadt. 
Discard: You have to place a card from your hand or your display on the discard pile.
the requirement on the left, the 
consequence on the right 
your own hand of cards
other players' hand of cards
(2) marks
black disaster token
buildings of different 
categories
twice the cost
decrease disaster 
"PARK" card in your 
own display
Activate a building 
once more
activate building by 
returning a worker
activate card with 
immediate effect
activate the immediate 
effect 2x
activate building
cost reduced by 2
decrease specific 
(pink) disaster level
not pay any money = for 
free
fourth disaster 
level increase
disaster
advance on the Town 
Hall Square
go back on the Town 
Hall Square
any number of points on the Town Hall Square
place a worker on the corresponding 
space in the church
move cleric in the church
completed 3rd wall segment and statue
die of any color showing a 
specific result (“1”)
die of any color with any 
result
Die of a certain color (“brown”) 
and result (“5” or “6”)
colored majority token
wall segment
statue
standard action 
standard action : take 3 
workers
standard action : gain x 
standard action : decrease 1 
disaster & gain 1 point
standard action : build 1 
wall segment
standard action : play 1 
construction site 
standard action : construct 
1 building
half the cost (rounded up)
increase disaster 
increased disaster 
discard pile
Select a (“CIVIC”) card 
from the discard pile
any draw pile
The card in hand becomes 
the color of your choice
any building card
specific building card 
("UNIVERSITY")
building with immediate 
effect
any construction site
(orange) construction site
specific category 
("entertainment")
any worker
(gray) worker
complete set of workers
draw/gain/take/purchase
discard/return/pay
activate
in/on your own display/
player board
flip
shuffle
play/construct/build
the player themself
all other players
perform/activate once more
perform/activate exactly 
1x / 2x
perform/activate any 
number of times (as many 
time as possible)
perform/activate up to (5x) 
all other players perform/
activate
matching/identical color
in different colors
ignore the color
Gain (2) points
twice the number of points
Purchase: You always pay with marks from your personal supply, returning them to the 
Wall segment: This is 1 colored space of the city wall on your player board on which you 
build a segment.
3rd wall segment: This is the special segment in the center of both halves of the wall, 
marked with "3 points"
Colored (flipped) majority token: A majority token flipped to its colored side on a 
player's board yields 4 points during final scoring.
For free: You do not to have pay money or return a worker when performing a standard 
action . 
Increase a disaster level by 1: Move the disaster marker to the left of the empty space to 
the right.
Decrease a disaster level by 1: Move the disaster marker to the right of the empty space 
to the left.

Cards 001 - 030
001 Category: 
Draw 1 card: Perform a standard action with that card.
002 Category: 
If no die result is "1" or "2": Pay 4 marks and advance 1 space on 
the town hall track.
003 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 marks per Civic building.
004 Category: 
Return any number of buildings to your hand.
The construction sites under the buildings remain in your display. As this 
increases your number of hand cards can draw fewer cards.
005 Category: 
Select 1 Civic card: Construct it as a building for free on an empty 
The pile is always the discard pile. If you don't find the card you're looking 
for in the discard pile, you don't get a card but still have to shuffle it.
006 Category: 
007 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Draw 1 card and perform a standard 
008 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Draw 1 card and perform a standard action 
with that card.
009 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Draw 1 card and perform a standard 
010 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Draw 1 card and perform a standard action 
with that card. 
011 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Civic building. 
012 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 1 point for every 3 wall sections.
Only for wall segments built on your own player board.
013 Category: 
Each other player mast discard 1 card from their hand.
014 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 marks per Government building.
015 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 marks per pink site.
016 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 marks per purple site.
017 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 marks per gray site.
018 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 marks per orange site.
019 Category: 
Select 1 Government card: Construct it as a building for free on 
020 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 points for each 3 purple sites.
021 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 points for each 3 orange sites.
022 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 points for each 3 gray sites.
023 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 points for each 3 pink sites.
024 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Government 
025 Category: 
Gain 2 marks for each of your buildings.
026 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 marks per University building.
027 Category: 
Purchase up to any 5 workers: Pay 1 mark per worker.
028 Category: 
Draw 4 Cards to your hand, then discard any 4 cards.
You may discard cards that you have just draw using this ability.
029 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring for each completed 
3rd wall section and for each statue.
030 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring for each active 
majority marker.

031 Category: 
Select 1 University card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
032 Category: 
Draw 2 cards: Play them as sites for free.
033 Category: 
Draw 1 additional card to your hand.
034 Category: 
When choosing the standard action "Take workers": Take any 1 
worker in addition.
035 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per University 
036 Category: 
When you play a card with a flash icon, activate this card twice.
You may activate the card you just played. You don't have to pay for the 
second activation.
037 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Select 1 Zoo card from the pink draw deck 
and add it to your hand. Shuffle the deck. 
038 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Select 1 Zoo card from the orange draw 
deck and add it to your hand. Shuffle the deck.
039 Category: 
.Return 1 gray worker: Select 1 Zoo card from 
the gray draw deck and add it to your hand. Shuffle the deck.
The pile is always the pile you have drawn the "ZOO" card from. If you don't 
find a "ZOO" card in the pile, you don't get a card but still have to shuffle it.
040 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Select 1 Zoo card from the purple draw 
deck and add it to your hand. Shuffle the deck.
041 Category: 
Return any 1 worker: Select 1 Park card from the draw deck of the 
worker’s color and add it to your hand. Shuffle the deck.
If you don't find a "PARK" card in the pile, you don't get a card but still have 
042 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 marks per Medicine building.
043 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker plus any 1 worker: Gain 3 marks and 1 
point.
044 Category: 
Select 1 Medicine card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
045 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 mark for each building belonging to 
different types.
046 Category: 
Activate majority marker even if only tied with other players.
047 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Medicine 
048 Category: 
Gain any 1 worker.
049 Category: 
If the gray die result is "5" or "6": Gain 1 gray worker.
050 Category: 
If the orange die result is "5" or "6": Gain 1 orange worker.
051 Category: 
If the brown die result is "5" or "6": Gain 1 brown worker.
052 Category: 
If the purple die result is "5" or "6": Gain 1 purple worker.
053 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 marks per Entertainment 
054 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Activate any “III” building a second time.
055 Category: 
Select 1 Entertainment card: Construct it as a building for free on 
056 Category: 
Gain 1 point for each different die result.
057 Category: 
Gain 2 marks for each different die result.
058 Category: 
Gain 1 pink worker for each different die result.
059 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Entertainment 
Cards 031 - 059

060 Category: 
Immediately activate all buildings with a worker cost without 
having to spend the worker.
This applies to all cards where you would have to return 1 worker.
061 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Art building.
062 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Build 1 wall section without playing a 
063 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Build 1 wall section without playing a 
064 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Build 1 wall section without playing a 
065 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Build 1 wall section without playing a card. 
Pay twice the cost.
066 Category: 
This building counts as an Entertainment, Theater, Circus as well 
as Art.
If other cards give additional points or marks for certain categories, you 
may activate this card more than once.
067 Category: 
Select 1 Art card: Construct it as a building for free on an empty 
068 Category: 
Advance 1 space on the town hall track without paying any coins.
069 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point per Art building.
070 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Play a site”: Reduce 1 
disaster level of that site’s color.
071 Category: 
Gain 1 point during final scoring for each building of a different 
type.
Example: You have 3 "CIVIC" buildings, 2 "POLICE" buildings and 1 
"EMIGRANT" building, you would gain 3 points for 3 different categories.
ZOO" and "PARK" do not qualify for this, because they are not buildings.
072 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Art building. 
073 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 marks per Theater building.
074 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 mark per orange site.
075 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 1 mark per brown site.
076 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 1 mark per purple site.
077 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 mark per gray site.
078 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point per orange site.
079 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 1 point per brown site.
080 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 1 point per purple site.
081 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 point per gray site.
082 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point per Theater building.
083 Category: 
Select 1 Theater card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
The pile is always the discard pile. If you don’t find the card you’re 
looking for in the discard pile, you don’t get a card but still have to 
shuffle it.
084 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Theater building.
Cards 060 - 084

085 Category: 
All other players must deactivate 1 active majority marker of their 
choice.
This must be done at once when this card is played. The b/w of the token 
is visible again. The affected players may flip the token again to its 
colored side during one of the following Phases IV, if they still (or again) 
meet the condition.
086 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Circus building.
087 Category: 
Gain marks equal to the single most common die face (not usable 
in case of a tie). Example: The number "3" has been rolled most often, you 
gain 3 marks. Both numbers "4" and "6" have been rolled most often equally, 
you do not gain any marks.
088 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point and 5 marks for every set of 
You gain the rewards only if you still have workers of all 5 colors after
returning the orange worker.
089 Category: 
Gain 2 points per active majority marker.
090 Category: 
Select 1 Circus card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
091 Category: 
If another player builds a wall section: Gain 1 worker of that 
color. You may claim this worker as long as the other player has not 
yet finished their turn. You may use this card more than once during the 
same round of the same season and if several other players build a wall 
segment.
092 Category: 
If the sum of all rolled dice is 23 or less, gain 5 marks.
093 Category: 
If the sum of all rolled dice is 19 or greater, gain 2 points.
094 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Circus building.
095 Category: 
If you activate a majority marker: Gain one worker of each color.
If the available workers in the Speicherstadt are not of all five colors at this 
point, you gain as many as possible (1 each of a different color).
096 Category: 
One statue scores twice the indicated points during final scoring.
097 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 marks per Commerce building.
098 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 3 marks.
099 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 3 marks.
100 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 3 marks.
101 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 3 marks.
102 Category: 
Gain 2 marks.
103 Category: 
Give 1 mark to each other player (as much as possible): Gain 1 
point from each of these players.
When using the ability of this card, you must give each other player 1 
mark if you own that many. These players lose 1 point each, and you 
gain these points. The other players cannot deny this. If you do not own 
as many marks as there are other players, you choose which players get 
1 mark each from you and lose 1 point to you.
104 Category: 
Select 1 Commerce card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
105 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 point for each completed 3rd wall 
section and for each statue.
106 Category: 
Return any 1 worker: Gain as many marks as the result of the 
same-colored die.
107 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Commerce 
108 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Build a wall section”: 
Return the required card and build for no coins.
109 Category: 
Return up to 5 workers of different colors: Gain 1 point and 1 
mark for each worker.
Of course, you gain points and marks only for the workers you have 
actually returned.
110 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 marks per Industry building.
Cards 085 - 110

111 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Convert the colors of any number of 
112 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Convert the colors of any number of 
113 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Convert the colors of any number of 
114 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Convert the colors of any number of 
115 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain any 2 workers.
116 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain any 2 workers. 
117 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain any 2 workers. 
118 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain any 2 workers. 
119 Category: 
Select 1 Industry card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
120 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Industry 
121 Category: 
Gain 6 marks.
122 Category: 
Whenever you gain money from a Park card: You gain 1 mark 
extra for each card.
123 Category: 
Gain as many marks as the number of points shown on your 
current space the town hall track.
124 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Bank building.
125 Category: 
When you advance 1 space on the town hall track: Pay 2 fewer 
marks than required by the die roll (may be reduced to zero).
You will never gain any marks from this card.
126 Category: 
Select 1 Bank card: Construct it as a building for free on an empty 
127 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point and 2 marks.
128 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 point and 2 marks.
129 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 1 point and 2 marks.
130 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 1 point and 2 marks.
131 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Bank building.
132 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Construct a building”: Pay 3 
marks fewer (may be reduced to zero).
You will never gain any marks from this card.
133 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 marks per Craft building.
134 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 marks per active majority marker.
135 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 marks per active majority marker.
136 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per active majority marker.
137 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 2 marks per active majority marker.
Cards 111 - 137

138 Category: 
extra for the pink die.
You gain the additional marks only if you choose the pink die.
139 Category: 
extra for the gray die.
You gain the additional marks only if you choose the gray die.
140 Category: 
extra for the brown die.
You gain the additional marks only if you choose the brown die.
141 Category: 
extra for the purple die.
You gain the additional marks only if you choose the purple die.
142 Category: 
Gain 1 pink, gray, brown, and purple worker.
143 Category: 
Select 1 Craft card: Construct it as a building for free on an empty 
144 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Craft building.
145 Category: 
Build 1 wall section for free without playing a card.
146 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 2 marks per Military building.
147 Category: 
Reduce up to 2 disaster levels of any color.
148 Category: 
Select 1 Military card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
149 Category: 
Reduce up to 3 disaster levels of any one color.
150 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Build a wall section”: 
Reduce 1 disaster level of that color.
The color of the reduced disaster must be the same as the built wall 
segment. You gain 1 point for reducing a disaster level as usual.
151 Category: 
Return 1 worker to prevent the increase of one disaster level of 
the same color.
This applies to the effects of the black disaster tokens too. If you're 
playing with the "Special Disasters", you may return 2 workers of 
matching colors to prevent both indicated disasters. You still gain the 
reward shown on some of these tokens, but only after resolving the 
disaster itself. This means, you cannot use the gained worker to prevent 
the disaster from that token.
152 Category: 
For each building you may reduce any 1 disaster level.
153 Category: 
Reduce up to 4 disaster levels of any one color.
154 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Military building.
155 Category: 
Gain 1 point during final scoring for each increased disaster level.
Example: During final scoring, you gain 2 points for the 2 pink disasters 
moved to the right plus 1 point each for the single brown, orange, and purple 
disaster moved to the right – a total of 5 points.
156 Category: 
Reduce any 1 disaster level.
157 Category: 
Return 1 worker of your choice: Reduce up to 2 disaster levels of 
that color.
The color of the worker and disaster must be the same. You gain 1 point 
for each reduced level.
158 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Police building.
159 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Reduce 1 orange disaster level.
160 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Reduce 1 pink disaster level.
161 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Reduce 1 brown disaster level.
Cards 138 - 161

162 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Reduce 1 purple disaster level.
163 Category: 
Select 1 Police card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
164 Category: 
Gain 1 mark for each die result of "6".
165 Category: 
A disaster is triggered only if you would need to increase it for the 
4th time.
If this card in your display, a disaster on you board is not triggered 
when all 3 disaster levels of one color have been moved to the right. It is 
triggered only when this disaster has to be increased one more time.
166 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Construct a building”: 
Reduce 1 disaster level of that color.
167 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Police building.
168 Category: 
When choosing the standard action “Reduce disaster”: Reduce 2 
disaster levels of that color.
Gain 2 points if you reduce 2 levels. This ability does not apply when 
reducing disasters by a means other than the standard action.
169 Category: 
Draw 1 random card from each other player.
170 Category: 
Return 1 purple worker: Gain 2 marks per Underworld building.
171 Category: 
Gain 3 marks from each other player (as far as possible).
172 Category: 
Gain 2 workers of their choice from each other player (as far as 
possible).
173 Category: 
Each other player must tear down 1 wall section. Majorities and 
statues are not affected by this.
174 Category: 
Select 1 Underworld card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
The pile is always the discard pile. If you don’t find the card you’re 
looking for in the discard pile, you don’t get a card but still have to 
shuffle it.
175 Category: 
Each other player must go back 1 space on the town hall track.
176 Category: 
Each other player must discard 1 building of their choice.
177 Category: 
Each other player must discard 1 site of their choice. Return any 
constructed building on it to your hand.
178 Category: 
Reduce any 1 disaster level. Each other player must increase the 
disaster level of that color.
If you play this card but cannot reduce any disaster level, no other 
player must increase a disaster level.
179 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Underworld 
180 Category: 
Gain 2 marks each time another player constructs a building.
181 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker:
Gain 2 marks per Secret Society building.
182 Category: 
When you build 1 orange building: Pay half the costs (rounded up).
183 Category: 
When you build 1 purple building: Pay half the costs (rounded up).
184 Category: 
When you build 1 pink building: Pay half the costs (rounded up).
185 Category: 
When you build 1 brown building: Pay half the costs (rounded up).
186 Category: 
Select 1 Secret Society card: Construct it as a building for free on 
187 Category: 
When you draw 1 black disaster token: Gain 1 point.
188 Category: 
When you draw 1 black disaster token: Gain 2 marks.
Cards 162 - 188

189 Category: 
You may place any 1 of your workers as a cleric on the space of 
the worker’s color in the church.
In Phase IV this worker is placed on the corresponding space on the 
floor of the church, below the window that matches its color. During 
final scoring it counts as an additional cleric for each player.
Example: A grey worker may be placed on the window about the grey space 
below the church.
190 Category: 
Return any 1 worker: Construct 1 building of that worker’s color 
for free UNDER a Zoo card of that color. That card’s action is still 
available, but not its points. You don't pay any construction costs. You 
may use the ability of the card under the "ZOO" card as usual. However, 
this card yields no points during final scoring.
191 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Secret Society 
192 Category: 
On your sites you may construct any 2 buildings.
193 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker:
Draw 2 cards to your hand and discard any 2 cards.
194 Category: 
Gain 2 marks for each different color of your sites (max. 10 
marks).
195 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 marks per Harbor building.
196 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Draw any 1 card to your hand.
197 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Draw any 1 card to your hand.
198 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Draw any 1 card to your hand.
199 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Draw any 1 card to your hand.
200 Category: 
Select 1 Harbor card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
201 Category: 
Draw 3 Cards to your hand.
202 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Draw the top card from the discard pile 
card and perform a standard action with that card.
203 Category: 
Gain 5 points during final scoring if you own sites of all 5 colors.
These sites must still be in your display during final scoring.
204 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Harbor building.
205 Category: 
Gain 1 point during final scoring for every 2 workers.
These workers must be on your player board during final scoring.
206 Category: 
Gain 1 pink worker and 3 marks.
207 Category: 
Gain 1 gray worker and 3 marks.
208 Category: 
Gain 1 orange worker and 3 marks.
209 Category: 
Gain 1 brown worker and 3 marks.
210 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Church building.
211 Category: 
Select 1 Church card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
212 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Gain 1 worker of the die's color for each 
die result of "1". Pick any 1 worker if the black die result is "1".
213 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 1 point for each die result of "1".
214 Category: 
When you advance 1 space on the town hall track, reduce any 1 
disaster level.
215 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Church building.
Cards 189 - 215

216 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain any 2 workers and 3 points.
217 Category: 
Gain 2 marks for each disaster level increased at least once (all 
colors).
218 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain 2 marks per Emigration building.
219 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Draw any 1 card, return 1 worker of that 
220 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Draw any 1 card, return 1 worker of that 
221 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Draw any 1 card, return 1 worker of that 
222 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Draw any 1 card, return 1 worker of that 
223 Category: 
Select 1 Emigration card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
224 Category: 
When you choose a standard action: Return 1 gray worker and 
convert the color of the used card to any other color.
This has the following effects on the particular standard actions:
1) Take x money: Announce the color and take as much money as the 
result of the same colored die.
2) Take 3 workers: Announce the color and take 3 workers of that color.
3) Build 1 wall segment: Announce the color and build 1 wall segment 
on a matching wall segment. Pay the costs as usual.
4) Decrease 1 disaster level: Announce the color and decrease 1 disaster 
of that color by 1 level. You gain 1 point as usual.
5) Play 1 site: Announce the color and return a worker of the same color 
to play the site. From now on though, the site is treated like the printed 
color, not the announced one.
6) Construct 1 building: There is no effect from this card in this case.
225 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Emigration 
226 Category: 
When you advance 1 space on the town hall track: Gain 1 point.
227 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Gain 1 mark for each different color of 
workers in your personal supply.
All workers on your player board are your personal supply.
228 Category: 
Activate 1 building of another player showing a flash icon.
Treat this building as if you had just played it yourself. The building 
remains in the other player's display.
229 Category: 
Return 1 brown worker: Gain 2 marks per Mysticism building.
230 Category: 
Return 1 orange worker: Gain as many marks as shown on the 
black die.
231 Category: 
When you draw a black disaster token: Increase 1 disaster level of 
your choice instead of the disaster shown.
If you're playing with the "Special Disasters," you may ignore both 
disaster level with this card and increase any 2 (the same or different) 
disasters instead. You still gain the reward shown on some of these 
tokens, even if you increase a disaster level of your choice.
232 Category: 
When you build 1 wall section: Pay coins equal to the black die 
result instead of the printed cost.
Example: The black die result is "1." You want to build a wall segment with 
costs of 3 marks. Using this card, you pay 1 mark only.
233 Category: 
Gain a number of points equal to the black die result.
234 Category: 
Return 1 pink worker: Draw a number of cards from the discard 
pile equal to the black die result. Discard the same number of 
cards.
Example: The black die result is "4." You draw the top 4 cards from the 
discard pile to your hand, and then you discard any 4 cards of your choice. 
Return then to the discard in the order of your choosing.
Cards 216 - 234

235 Category: 
Return 1 gray worker: Move the cleric of the current round in the 
church 1 space to the right or to the left.
236 Category: 
Draw 1 black disaster token: Each other player must increase 1 
disaster level of the shown color.
237 Category: 
If other dice have the same result as the black die: Gain 1 worker 
each of these colors.
Example: The black die result is "4," and the brown and the purple die has the 
same result. You gain 1 brown and 1 purple worker.
238 Category: 
Select 1 Mysticism card: Construct it as a building for free on an 
239 Category: 
Gain 2 additional points during final scoring per Mysticism 
240 Category: 
If another player wants to advance 1 space on the town hall track, 
they must add the result of the black die to costs.
Example: The result of 3 dice is "1" + "2" + "1" = 4 and the result of the 
black die is "5." Each other player would have to pay 9 marks if they want to 
advance 1 space on the town hall square. This card is used in Phase II and 
applies only to the other players if they want to advance 1 space. The player 
who plays this card is not affected.
This applies when a player advances on the town hall track for any reason 
in Phase II, unless they may ignore the result of the black die (mayor tile).
241 - 260 Category: 
No further effects. These cards yield the printed points during 
final scoring.
261 Category: 
262 Category: 
Gain 1 gray worker.
263 Category: 
Draw 1 additional gray card.
264 Category: 
265 Category: 
266 Category: 
Gain 1 orange worker.
267 Category: 
Draw 1 additional orange card.
268 Category: 
269 Category: 
270 Category: 
Gain 1 brown worker.
271 Category: 
Draw 1 additional brown card.
272 Category: 
273 Category: 
274 Category: 
Gain 1 purple worker.
275 Category: 
Draw 1 additional purple card.
276 Category: 
277 Category: 
278 Category: 
Gain 1 pink worker.
279 Category: 
Draw 1 additional pink card.
280 Category: 
Cards 235 - 280

Summary of the cleric tiles
If advancing is impossible due to lacking "1" or "2" die results, it 
is still impossible.
Any special effects of other cards are applied after this as usual.
This does not depend on die results. This means, all results "3" 
and "4" are ignored.
+2 marks
-2 marks
purple dice = +2 
“Take money” 
purple dice = -2 
workers" standard 
action:
+1 worker of any 
Gray, brown dice = 
+2 marks
"Construct one 
wall segment" 
The costs are 
decreased by 2 
marks (min. 0)
"Deploy a cleric 
to the church": 
All players must 
discard all their 
cards in hand. 
Then, they draw exactly 1 card 
of each of the 5 colors.
they draw 3 cards from one 
deck and 2 cards from another 
one.
In Phase II "City 
Hall Square": The 
costs are decreased 
by 2 marks (min. 0)
In Phase II "Activate 
ships": In this 
season all ships are 
activated
"Construct one 
building" standard 
action: The costs 
are decreased by 2 
marks (min. 0)
Standard action 
workerss":
purple cards => 
+1 worker of that 
During this season, 
all players have +1 
action (the number 
of cards remains 
unchanged)
In this season 
all orange, pink, 
purple disasters are 
ignored.
“Take three 
workers” standard 
action:
-1 worker of any 
“Take money” 
Gray, brown dice = 
-2 marks
“Construct one 
wall segment” 
The costs are 
increased by 2 
"Deploy a cleric 
to the church": 
All players must 
discard all their 
cards in hand. Then 
In Phase II "City 
Hall Square": The 
costs are increased 
by 2 marks 
"Activate ships": 
In this season no 
ships are activated.
“Construct one 
building” standard 
action: The costs 
are increased by 2 
Standard action 
workers":
Gray, brown cards 
=> 1 worker of that 
During this season, 
all players have -1 
action (the number 
of cards remains 
unchanged)
In this season 
all brown, gray, 
black disasters are 
ignored.

Summary of stock exchange tiles
B01 - Front side (green):
"Take money" Standard action: You 
take a number of marks extra equal 
to the current stock exchange value.
B03 - Front side (green):
You take a number of workers extra
value.
Steps: 0 - 1 - 2 (from bottom to top)
B05 - Front side (green):
action: You gain a number of points
Steps: 1 - 1 - 2 (from bottom to top)
B07 - Front side (green):
action: You gain an additional 
number of points equal to the current 
stock exchange value. 
Steps: 0 - 1 - 2 (from bottom to top)
B09 - Front side (green):
action: You gain a number of points
Steps: 1 - 1 - 2 (from bottom to top)
B11 - Front side (green):
action: You have a discount equal to 
the current stock exchange value.
B13 - Front side (green):
You take 1 additional worker in the 
color indicated by the stock exchange 
marker.
Steps: Purple - pink/gray - orange/
brown (from bottom to top)
B02 - Back side (red):
"Take money" Standard action: You 
take money minus the current stock 
exchange value. 
Steps: 1 - 2 - 2 (from top to bottom)
B04 - Back side (red):
You take workers and must pay a 
number of marks equal to the current 
stock exchange value once. 
B06 - Back side (red):
action: You lose a number of points
B08 - Back side (red):
marks equal to the current stock 
exchange value immediately. 
B10 - Back side (red):
action: You must return 1 worker in the 
color indicated by the stock exchange 
marker in addition.
Steps: Gray - purple/ brown - pink/
orange (from top to bottom)
B12 - Back side (red):
marks in addition as indicated by the 
current stock exchange value. 
B14 - Back side (red):
action: You must return a number of 
additional workers, in the building‘s 
color, as indicated by the current stock 
exchange value. 
Steps: 0 - 1 - 2 (from top to bottom)

B15 - Front side (green)
“Take money” Standard action: Take 
an additional number of workers in the 
color of the die used to take money. 
B17 - Front side (green)
action: You gain a number of marks
B19 - Front side (green)
action: You do not pay for the wall 
segments you build in wall segments of 
the color of the current stock exchange 
value. 
Steps: Orange - gray/purple - pink/
brown (from bottom to top)
B16 - Back side (red):
action: You must pay an additional 
number of marks equal to the current 
stock exchange value.
B18 - Back side (red):
marks equal to the current stock 
exchange value immediately.
B20 - Back side (red):
action: The wall segments you build 
in wall segments of the color of the 
current stock exchange value cost 1 
additional mark.
Steps: Brown - purple/pink - orange/
gray (from top to bottom)
Summary of Special Disasters
Orange + 
draw any 1 card
Orange + pink
Pink + 
gain 1 point
Pink + purple
Purple + 
gain any 1 
worker.
Purple + gray
Gray + 
2 marks
Gray + brown
Brown + orange
Brown + 
decrease 1 disaster 
level once other than 
brown (do not gain 1 
point)
Double disasters
You must increase both disasters
Little Gifts
First, you must increase the shown disaster. After this, you receive the bonus.

Start: 10 marks + 2 x 5 workers
Ability: Your hand limit is 7.
For all rules that applies for your hand limit, 
you read the “5 hand limit” as “7 hand limit.”
Start: 10 marks + 0 x 5 workers
Ability: Each time you increase a 
disaster level you gain 1 worker of the 
disaster's color.
Start: 10 marks + 1 x 5 workers
Ability: You ignore taking a black 
disaster token as well as the costs of the 
black die when advancing on the Town 
Hall Square.
Start: 7 marks + 1 x 5 workers
Ability: Each time you construct a 
building with 0 cost, you gain 1 point 
and 2 marks immediately.
Start: 10 marks + 1 x 5 workers
Ability: Each wall segment you build 
costs exactly 2 marks.
Start: 5 marks + 0 x 5 workers
Ability: Each time you decrease a 
disaster level you gain 2 points (instead 
of 1 point).
Start: 5 marks + 2 x 5 workers
Ability: Once during each season you 
may activate a "building (III)" twice, 
even during the same turn. (You must pay 
any cost twice. Place a second activation 
marker on the card after second activation.)
Start: 10 marks + 2 x 5 workers
Ability: You gain 5 marks once for each 
majority. Take the money immediately 
when flipping the token.
If you need to flip a majority token on its 
grey side again, due to a card effect, you 
will gain another 5 marks if you manage to 
flip the token later again.
Start: 5 marks + 1 x 5 workers
Ability: Each time you play a 
construction site, you gain 1 point 
immediately.
Start: 5 marks + 1 x 5 workers
Ability: Each time you perform the 
"Take money" standard action, you take 
+2 marks.
Summary of the mayor tiles
Summary of ships
Orange ship:
Take 3 workers of the same color (your choice).
Gray ship:
Draw the top card card from the draw pile of the 
same color as the wall segment you had just built 
(color of the wall segment), and perform a basic 
Pink ship:
Pay 3 marks and advance 1 space on the Town Hall 
Square.
This way it is possible to advance more than once on the 
Town Hall Square during the same season.
Brown ship:
Activate 1 of your buildings showing a flash icon 
immediately.
Purple ship:
Gain 4 marks.
Black ship:
Decrease 1 disaster level of 
your choice and gain 1 point 
as usual.
© Copyright 2021 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.
Carl Friederich Petersen
Gustav Heinrich Kirchenpauer
Hermann Anthony C. Weber
Johannes Versmann
Johann Georg Mönckeberg