Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 HAMMER OF THE SCOTS
Pub: 	
©2002 Columbia Games
Page 1: 	 Rules summary front	
Page 2: 	 Rules summary back
Page 3: 	 Scenarios
Page 4: 	 Background Material
v1
Apr 2010
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 

Setup
One player plays the Scots (blue blocks), the other player 
plays the English (red blocks). 
The object is to control a majority of Scottish nobles 
at the end of the game. The two scenarios, Braveheart 
(1297–1305) and The Bruce (1306–1314) can be played 
as separate games, or as a campaign game extending over 
both periods.
Setup the board according to the scenario instructions. 
Both players start the first year with 5 cards each. 
Armies
Block Characteristics
When the blocks are standing upright, blocks face their 
owning player and their characteristics are hidden from 
your opponent.
The Strength of a block is the number of symbols on the 
top edge when the block is standing upright. Strength 
(1-4) determines how many d6 are thrown for a block 
in combat. For each hit taken in combat, the block’s 
strength is reduced by 1 by rotating the block.
The Movement of a block is shown on its bottom left-hand 
corner.
The Combat Rating of a block is a letter and number on 
its bottom right-hand corner. The letter determines when 
a block attacks (all A blocks attack first, then all B blocks, 
then all C blocks). The number indicates the maximum 
roll on a d6 that will score a hit.
Block Types
The Scots have two Leaders: Wallace and the King. The 
English have one Leader: Edward, who represents Edward 
I until 1307 and then Edward II.
There are 14 Nobles, each identified by their heraldic 
arms. Nobles are either loyal to the Bruce faction or the 
Comyn faction.
Each noble (except Moray) has 2 blocks. Only 1 block 
is play at a time: Red when supporting the English, and 
Blue when supporting the Scots. 
English infantry are named after their counties. The 
English also have one Welsh (red dragon) and Ulster 
(green cross) infantry.
Scottish Infantry are namd after prominent clans.
Other block types are Archers, Light Cavalry and Knights. 
The French knights enter the game only under special rules.
The Norse block represents possible intervention by 
Norway, which at this time controlled much of the area 
north of Ross, including the Orkney and Shetland Islands; 
or by the warlike clans of Norse origin from the Outer 
Hebrides. The block has special movement abilities.
Sequence of Play
Each Year consists of 1-5 Game Turns. Each Game Turn 
has 4 Phases:
1. Card Phase
Each player plays 1 card facedown. They are revealed 
simultaneously and the higher card has the first move. 
Ties go to the English player. 
2. Move Phase
Depending on the card played, 1, 2, or 3 Group Moves 
may be made. 
Blocks may move up to 3 areas per Move Phase 
depending on their move rate, but must stop upon 
crossing a red border or entering an enemy-occupied area. 
3. Battle Phase
Battles occur when enemy blocks are located in the same 
area, and are fought one by one in a sequence determined 
by the first player. 
After all battles are fought, repeat steps 1 to 3 until a 
Year ends.
After each Year ends, the Winter Turn is played. 
Nobles return home (perhaps to switch sides), and armies 
move into winter quarters. 
Both players receive replacements, and 5 new cards to 
start the new year.
Card Phase 
At the beginning of each year, all cards are shuffled and 
5 are dealt out facedown to each player. Players may then 
examine their cards before the year begins.
Both players start a Game Turn by playing one card 
facedown. 
The cards are then revealed and the higher card 
determines Player 1 for that Game Turn (English win ties).
Players may choose to pass but effects cannot be saved 
for future use.
Move Cards allow 1, 2, or 3 group moves according to the 
card value.
Event cards allow a special action as noted on the card. 
They are always resolved first (the player of the card is 
Player 1).
If both players play an Event card, both events are 
resolved (English player first) and then the year ends.
Initiative
Card values determine play order each Game Turn. 
The higher card (English win ties) is Player 1 and must 
play first.
Move Phase
Players are never compelled to move. They must play a 
card, but can do nothing. Moves cannot be saved.
Blocks may pass freely through friendly blocks, but 
must stop and fight a battle when they enter any area 
containing one or more enemy blocks.
Blocks only move once per Game Turn, except to Retreat 
or Regroup.
All blocks (even one) located in one area are a group. 
Players may move as many groups as the number on the 
card they play. A player can move any number of the blocks 
in a group to one or more areas within their move rating.
Border Limits
Per Movement Phase, a maximum of 6 blocks can cross a 
black border, and a maximum of 2 can cross a red border. 
Border limits are applied separately to each player. Once a 
border maximum is met, it is closed to movement by that 
player this Game Turn.
Blocks crossing a red border must stop. 
Border limits are applied to each player—ie, both players 
can move 2 blocks across the same red border.
The Anglo-Scottish Border is a heavy red or black broken 
line. Blocks entering England must stop. Blocks entering 
Scotland must stop only if they cross the red broken 
border into Teviot.
Each point of movement allows only 1 block (not group) to 
cross the Anglo-Scottish border. Blocks attacking across 
the Anglo-Scottish border into the same area fight as 1 
group (no reserves).
Area Control
Areas can either be friendly, neutral, or enemy controlled. 
Changes to area control are effective immediately.
Friendly: areas occupied by your blocks.
Enemy: areas occupied by enemy blocks.
Neutral: vacant areas occupied by neither player.
Pinning
All attacking blocks (including Reserves) prevent an equal 
number of defending blocks from moving.
The Defender chooses which blocks are pinned. The 
‘unpinned’ blocks may move normally and attack, except 
they cannot cross any border used by the enemy to start 
the battle.
Norse Movement
The Norse block moves separately from other blocks. It 
requires 1 movement point to move all by itself, and can 
move from a coastal area to any other Scottish coastal 
area and/or attack.
The block may Retreat or Regroup to any friendly (but not 
neutral) Scottish coastal area. It cannot enter England.
Battle Phase 
Battles are fought one by one after all movement is 
completed; each must be completed before the next. 
Player 1 determines which battle is fought first before 
examining any enemy blocks. Reveal blocks by tipping 
them forward to maintain current Strength. 
After that battle is completed, return all blocks upright, 
and Player 1 then selects the next battle. He need not 
commit to any specific sequence of battles in advance.
Celtic Unity
Each time Ulster and Welsh (infantry and archers) blocks 
are in battle, roll a die before combat to test the loyalty 
of each block.
1-4: No effect
5-6: Block goes into the Draw Pool
Combat Rounds
Battles are fought for a maximum of 3 combat rounds. 
The attacker must retreat if a battle is not concluded by 
the end of the third round.
Because both players move before combat, a player can 
be a Defender in some battles, and an Attacker in others.
Combat Turns
Each block has 1 Combat Turn per Combat Round. In 
its Combat Turn, a block may either Fire, Retreat, or Pass.
The sequence of Combat Turns depends on combat 
ratings. All A blocks go before all B blocks, which 
go before all C blocks. Defending A blocks go before 
Attacking A blocks, and so on.
After all blocks have taken 1 Combat Turn, 1 Combat 
Round has been fought. Repeat for a second or third 
round as necessary.
Combat Reserves
A player may attack via different borders, or attack using 
2 or 3 group moves. One group crossing the same border 
must be declared the Main Attack. All other friendly 
blocks are placed in Reserve.
Main Attack blocks must start the turn in the same area 
and cross the same border into battle. All other blocks 
are in Reserve. Main Attack blocks cannot be voluntarily 
placed in the Reserve. 
Blocks moved by Player 2 to reinforce a battle started by 
Player 1 are Reserves.
Reserve blocks may not fire, retreat, or take hits in 
Combat Round 1. They are revealed at the beginning 
of Round 2, even if all other friendly blocks have been 
eliminated, and thereafter take normal Combat Turns.
Battlefield Control changes if the Attacker wins in Round 
1 before Defending reserves arrive. The Attacker is now 
the Defender for further combat.

Combat Resolution
Each block in its combat turn rolls as many dice as its 
current Strength. A hit is scored for each die roll equal to 
or lower than the block’s Combat Rating.
Nobles fire at B3 defending their Home Area, even if they 
move there this Game Turn or defected during battle.
To reflect the dynamics of battles involving Scottish 
schiltroms, all Scottish infantry fire at +1 in battles when 
the English side has no archers. 
Each hit is applied to the strongest enemy block. When 
2 or more blocks share the highest Strength, the owner 
chooses which to reduce.
Combat is not simultaneous. All hits are applied 
immediately.
Retreats
Each block may Retreat (instead of attacking) on its 
normal Combat Turn. They need not all retreat to the 
same area.
Before retreating, blocks are flipped back upright (facing 
their owner) to hide from the enemy which are retreating.
 	Blocks retreat to adjacent Friendly or Neutral areas.
	 Border Limits for retreat apply to each Combat Round 	
	
and the attacker’s mandatory retreat after 3 rounds.
	 Blocks may not retreat through borders used by the 		
	
enemy player to enter the battle. When both players 	
	
use the same border, only the last player entering may 	
	
retreat via this border during this battle.
	 Blocks may never retreat to an area where there is 	 	
	
another unfought battle.
	 Blocks that cannot retreat when required are 	
	
	
eliminated.
	 The English player may never retreat into Scotland. 		
	
The Scottish player may never retreat into England.
	 The Norse block may Retreat to any Friendly (not 	
	
	
Neutral) coastal area. It cannot enter England.
Regrouping
When a battle ends the victor may Regroup. All victorious 
blocks (including any in Reserve) may move to any 
adjacent Friendly or Neutral area. Blocks cannot Regroup 
to an unfought battle.
The Norse block can Regroup to any Friendly (not 
Neutral) coastal area. It cannot enter England.
Border Limits apply for Regroups. Only Scottish blocks 
may Regroup into Scotland, and only English blocks may 
Regroup into England.
Capturing Nobles
When an noble is eliminated in combat, it immediately 
switches to the enemy side (exchange block color) at 
Strength 1 and is placed in Reserve. Captured nobles fight 
for their new side beginning in the next combat round. 
The Scots noble Moray never changes allegiance. If 
eliminated in battle his block is removed from the game.
Eliminated Blocks
Eliminated blocks are placed in a player’s Draw Pool and 
may return to the game during an English Feudal Levy or 
Scots Winter Build.
When eliminated in Battle, blocks with a black cross are 
permanently eliminated. 
All blocks eliminated as a consequence of the Pillage 
card, Border Raids, or Winter Attrition are disbanded to 
the Draw Pool.
Border Raids
The Scottish player may invade England. This costs 1 
movement point per block to cross the Border. 
If a Scots force occupies England, the English player 
must eliminate 1 non-Noble block at the end of every 
Game Turn. 
If the English player has only noble blocks on the board, 
then no blocks are eliminated.
Scottish blocks cannot winter in England.
Wintering
A game Year ends if both players play an Event card at 
the same time, or after all 5 cards have been played. 
Cards are never carried forward into the next year.
When a Year ends, there is a special Winter Turn. Play 
the Winter actions in the following order:
1. Nobles Go Home
All nobles, English nobles first, must return to their 
Home Areas. If that area is enemy-occupied, the noble 
defects at current strength.
Moray may decline to return home and remain where 
located or disband.
The Bruce and Comyn blocks may return to either of their 
Home Areas. If both Home Areas are enemy-occupied, 
the enemy player decides the wintering Home Area.
2. Scottish King 
The Scottish King may withdraw to any Friendly or 
Neutral area with a cathedral, remain where located, or 
disband.
3. English Disbanding
English blocks are never forced to remain in Scotland. 
They may disband.
Archers, Knights, and Hobelars must disband.
English infantry blocks (including the Welsh and Ulster 
infantry) may remain in Scotland only if located in an 
area with sufficient Castle Limits. The English may not 
disband a Noble to make room for an infantry block.
4. Edward Wintering
If located in Scotland, Edward I may winter there or 
Disband.
	 Neither king may winter in England.
	 Edward I cannot spend 2 consecutive winters in 	
	
	
Scotland.
	 Edward I cannot winter in Scotland in 1306.
	 Edward II may not winter in Scotland.
If Edward I winters in Scotland, all red blocks (except 
Nobles) may winter with him regardless of Castle Limits.
If Edward winters, there is no Feudal Levy this winter 
and England begins the next year empty. 
5. Scottish Disbanding
The Wallace block may move to Selkirk (unless occupied 
by a ‘wintering’ Edward I) where he regains two RPs.
The Scots player now disbands all blocks that exceed an 
area’s Castle Limit. The Scots player may choose which 
block(s) to disband. 
With the exception of Moray, a Noble cannot disband.
6. Winter Builds
Each friendly area generates Replacement Points (RPs) 
equal to its Castle Rating. 
Areas with a Cathedral generate an extra RP for the 
Scottish player. 
Players now simultaneously use their RPs to strengthen 
their army. 
Scottish Builds: Each RP is used to:
	 Build one step on one existing block in the same area, 
	
or
	 Draw one block and deploy in the same area at 	
	
	
strength 1.
RPs can be used in any combination. Multiple steps 
may be added to one block. Players may Build steps on 
blocks just drawn. 
RPs cannot be saved and are wasted if unusable.
When drawing blocks, Castle Limits must be obeyed.
If the Norse or French block is drawn for an inland 
area like Badenoch or Lanark, deploy it in any friendly, 
adjacent coastal area. Castle Limits do not apply in this 
special case and the new home for the Norse or French 
may still receive replacement steps if it could do so prior 
to the redeployment. 
French Knights: Once the Scottish player controls 8 or 
more nobles, the French knight is added to the Scottish 
Draw Pool and deployed like any other block if drawn. 
The block remains in play until eliminated in battle.
English Builds: The English player may use RPs 
generated by areas under his control to strengthen 
infantry (only) or nobles under his control. The English 
player cannot use RPs to deploy blocks from the English 
Draw Pool.
7. English Feudal Levy
The English player receives new blocks by a Feudal Levy, 
except when the English King has wintered in Scotland.
	 Shuffle all blocks (face-down) in the Draw Pool.
	 Draw one half (round up).
	 Deploy blocks at full strength in the England area.
8. New Cards
Shuffle and deal out 5 new cards to each player. 
The next year is now played.
Kings
English Kings
The Edward block represents Edward I until killed in 
combat, or until the end of 1306, when it then becomes 
Edward II. The switch to Edward II has two game effects:
	 Edward II cannot winter in Scotland.
	 If Edward II is eliminated in combat, the Scots win a 	
	
Sudden Death Victory.
Scottish Kings
The Scots do not have a King block at the start of play. 
Once per game the Scots may crown a king. There are 
three candidates for the throne: Bruce, Comyn, and 
Balliol.
To crown either Bruce or Comyn:
	 Wallace must be dead.
	 The candidate must be located in Fife.
	 The Scottish player must play any Event card, 	
	
	
announcing Coronation instead of the normal event.
The King block is then placed in Fife at full strength. 
The candidate block remains in play, representing 
another family member under normal noble rules.
If Bruce becomes king, all Comyn nobles except Moray 
immediately defect to the English. 
If Comyn becomes king, all Bruce nobles immediately 
defect to the English. 
Any resulting battle is fought immediately with the 
defecting noble(s) being the attacker.
King Balliol, exiled in France, can return to the throne 
starting in 1301, provided no other king has been 
crowned.
	 The French knight must be on the map.
	 The Scottish player must play any Event card, 	
	
	
announcing Return of the King instead of the normal 	
	
event.
Wallace may be dead or alive. The king block is then 
deployed at full strength with the French knight. All 
Bruce nobles immediately defect to the English.
Victory
The object of the game is to control a majority of Nobles 
at the end of the scenario. 
If both players control 7 nobles (Moray in play) the 
English win if Wallace is dead or in the Draw Pool.
Otherwise, the Scots win.
Sudden Death Victory
An instant victory occurs when:
 	A player controls all nobles in play at the end of a 	 	
	
Game Turn. Moray must be dead or in the Draw Pool 	
	
for the English to win in this manner.
	 The English player wins immediately if the Scottish 		
	
King is eliminated in battle.
	 The Scottish player wins immediately if Edward II 	 	
	
is eliminated in battle.

Scenario 1: Braveheart
The Scottish nobility was reduced after the battle of 
Dunbar to abject servitude and humiliation. But in the 
ashes of defeat two courageous young men rose to 
continue the fight against tremendous odds.
William Wallace had turned brigand in 1294. His 
murderous guerrilla war against the English culminated 
in the sack of Lanark in 1297. Suddenly, the invincible 
English looked invincible no longer. Meanwhile, Andrew 
de Moray, a young knight from one of Scotland’s major 
land-owning families in the north, launched a bloody 
uprising in the Highlands. 
Scotland, already smoldering with discontent and 
sporadic resistance by the fall of 1296, flamed into open 
rebellion by the spring of 1297. It took Longshanks 
seven years to put out the fire lit by these two heroes.
Duration
1297 through 1305, unless one side achieves a Sudden 
Death victory.
English Deployment
Place all red blocks in the English Draw Pool, except 
deploy at full strength on the mapboard:
Nobles: All nobles (except Bruce, Moray, and Galloway) 
in home areas. Comyn is deployed in Badenoch.
Lothian: Cumbria Infantry.
Mentieth: Northumber Infantry.
England: Feudal Levy of 4 blocks. 
Edward I starts play in the English Draw Pool. 
Historically, he was fighting in Flanders in 1297.
Scottish Deployment
Remove the King and French Knights and set aside. 
Place all other blue blocks in the Scottish Draw Pool, 
except deploy at full strength on the mapboard:
Annan: Bruce.
Galloway: Galloway.
Fife: Wallace, Douglas, & Barclay.
Moray: Moray, Fraser.
Strathspey: Grant.
Scenario 2: The Bruce
After John Comyn’s negotiated surrender to Longshanks 
in February 1304, an uneasy peace returned to Scotland. 
Robert Bruce had not supported Comyn’s rebellion and 
resented Edward’s betrayal of his promise to deliver him 
the Scottish throne. Bruce conspired with sympathetic 
nobles and the leadership of the Scottish church to seize 
the throne and inspire his countrymen to revolt, a task 
made easy when news spread of Wallace’s brutal 
execution in August 1305.
Bruce and John Comyn met alone in a Dumfries church. 
They engaged in violent argument over the wisdom of 
Bruce’s plans; it ended with Bruce’s knife in Comyn’s 
heart.
With the absolution of the Scottish clergy, Bruce was 
crowned at Scone on March 10, 1306, the 10th 
anniversary of the outbreak of the rebellion. Faced with 
civil war against Comyn loyalists and imminent attack 
from England, Bruce desperately assembled an army and 
prepared for the worst.
Duration
1306 through 1314, unless one side achieves a Sudden 
Death victory.
English Deployment
Place all red blocks in the English Draw Pool, except 
deploy at full strength on the mapboard:
Nobles: all Comyn nobles (except Moray) in their home 
areas. Comyn is deployed in Badenoch.
Moray: Cumbria Infantry.
Mentieth: Mentieth, Northumber Infantry.
Lothian: Durham Infantry.
Lanark: Stewart, Westmor Infantry.
England: Feudal Levy (50% blocks).
Edward I dies at the end of 1306 and the king block 
then becomes Edward II. Edward I cannot winter in 
Scotland in 1306.
Scottish Deployment
Remove Wallace and Moray and set aside—both are 
dead. Place all other blue blocks in the Scottish Draw 
Pool, except deploy at full strength on the mapboard:
Nobles: all Bruce faction nobles (except Mentieth and 
Stewart) in their home areas. Bruce is deployed in Carrick.
Fife: King, Douglas, Barclay.
Lennox: Campbell.
Carrick: Lindsay.

Background Material
Hammer of the Scots
Edward I directed that his tomb in Westminster Abbey be 
inscribed with the epitaph Scottorurm Malleus—
‘Hammer of the Scots’. Edward certainly intended to 
hammer the Scots into submission, but his blows served 
instead to forge a proud nation.
How the War Started
The Scottish Wars of Independence were actually 
triggered by events in Europe. In 1294, France managed 
through duplicity to seize control of the Duchy of 
Gascony, a major province nominally a part of France but 
retained by Edward I. War ensued, and the Scottish 
nobles, chafing under the humiliating rule of Edward I 
through his puppet—King John Balliol of Scotland—
eagerly agreed to make common cause with the French.
Edward I, caught off guard by this uncharacteristic 
display of Scottish defiance, delayed his invasion of 
Flanders and moved to settle the rebellion north of the 
Tweed. But King Philip failed to live up to his side of the 
agreement—which called for an invasion of England 
should Edward move against Scotland—and the struggle 
did not last long. After a brutal siege and massacre of 
half the population of Berwick—Scotland’s largest town 
at the time—Edward moved north to Dunbar. An attempt 
to break the siege of Dunbar ended with disaster when 
the smaller English force routed the Scots.
With the imprisonment of most of the Scottish nobility—
including King John Balliol—and the complete annexation 
of Scotland by the English crown, Edward thought the 
affair over. He haughtily remarked upon leaving Scotland 
in 1296 that it was “good to be rid of shit.” 
He would not be rid of the Scots for long.
The Black Douglas
One of the most romanticized figures of the war was 
James ‘The Black’ Douglas, a ferocious warrior, daring 
guerrilla, and brilliant field commander who terrorized 
the enemy.
The stuff of Douglas’ character was inherited from his 
father, the crusty Sir William Douglas. William was 
contemptuous of King John Balliol’s supplication to the 
English crown and one of the few Scots never to bow to 
Edward. An early comrade of Wallace, William Douglas 
was captured after the debacle at Irvine and died in the 
Tower of London in 1299.
His son was to avenge his death in spades. One of the 
Bruce’s most trusted lieutenants, James Douglas proved 
his worth not only on the battlefield but during sieges as 
well. Douglas was adept at finding means of entry into 
even the best defended castles and fortresses, and was 
legendary for savage reprisals on garrison troops who fell 
into his hands.
On his deathbed Bruce asked Douglas to carry his heart 
into battle in the Holy Land where it could witness the 
defeat of the enemies of God. Accordingly, Douglas and 
a large company of Scottish knights set sail for Castile in 
1330 where King Alfonso XI was conducting a campaign 
against the Moors of Grenada. Douglas, bearing Bruce’s 
heart, was given command of an army at Tebas de Ardales 
on March 25. There, he and most of his men were slain 
after being cut-off from the main body of troops. The 
Moors finally accomplished what the English could not.
Schiltroms
The schiltrom was a formation that grouped footmen 
into a large hollow square (or oval) and armed them with 
long spears to resist the deadly charge of heavy horse. 
Reinforcements were often harbored in the middle of 
the formation so that men could be rushed to crumbling 
defensive lines when needed.
Invented by Wallace at Falkirk as a defensive tactic, 
Bruce improved them by employing battle-hardened 
veterans capable of moving and attacking in formation, 
an idea later refined by Swiss Pikemen to devastating 
effect. Although always vulnerable to massed ranged fire 
(whether from arrows or cannon), the schiltrom was a 
revolutionary tactic that reduced the power of knights on 
the battlefield.
The Longbow
The war was a proving ground for the English longbow, a 
weapon soon to terrorize the French during the 100 Years 
War. The longbow had a range of 350-400 yards, but the 
necessary draw weight of 100-175 pounds required great 
strength and extensive training. Edward I was the first to 
appreciate the potential for this terrible weapon and its 
ability to revolutionize the medieval battlefield.
Scottish archers were few and far between—the 
shortbowmen and slingers of Etterick Forest were no 
match for English longbowmen.
Edward the Longshanks
Edward I was one of the leading monarchs of the 
Middle Ages. He was a noted pioneer of legal reforms; 
a great architect of administrative justice; an innovator 
of financial administration; and one of the founders of 
parliamentary government. European Kings and Popes 
held him in the highest esteem, and few monarchs ever 
dominated the English nobility like Edward.
The Song of Lewes, however, compares Edward to a 
brave lion—proud and fierce—but also unreliable and 
deceitful. In his later years, Edward’s commitment 
to justice evolved into cruelty and judicial murder. 
He saw the Scottish war as a rebellion, not a war 
between nations, and therefore believed that chivalry 
did not apply. Gruesome executions and lawlessness 
characterized the war.
Edward’s conduct was animated by a fierce 
determination to preserve, protect, and enhance his 
rights as King. Yet he was more a savvy opportunist than 
a Machiavellian strategist. It is doubtful that he had 
any grand designs on Scotland prior to the death of his 
cousin and ally King Alexander III of Scotland in 1286. 
But when he was asked by the leading men of Scotland 
to adjudicate the dispute between Bruce and Balliol 
for the vacant throne (known to historians as ‘the Great 
Cause’), he did not hesitate to assert a long-standing but 
dormant claim to sovereignty over Scotland.
A battle-hardened veteran of the Montfortian rebellions 
of 1263-1267, Pope Urban IV’s crusade in 1270, and 
the Welsh wars of 1277, 1282-1283, and 1294-1295, 
Edward was a capable military commander and a brilliant 
mobilizer of men, equipment, and victuals. Scottish 
victories came only when Edward I was absent from 
Scotland or dead.
The Scottish Nobility
The elimination of a Scottish noble block in combat does 
not necessarily imply the death of that noble. Nobles 
were often captured in battle and held hostage to ensure 
the loyalty of retainers and heirs. Other times, after a 
brief imprisonment, captured nobles would be pardoned 
and allowed to go free upon a pledge of loyalty to their 
captors. The death of a noble on the battlefield meant a 
new feudal lord of the household, and newly empowered 
lords often had different ideas about the rebellion than 
their predecessors.
Beneath the real-politick, however, was a smoldering 
hatred for the English that could never be extinguished. 
Observed the English Lanercost Chronicle, a history of 
the war written at the time:
“In all these aforesaid campaigns the Scots were so 
divided among themselves that sometimes the father 
was on the Scottish side and the son on the English, and 
vice versa; also one brother might be with the Scots and 
another with the English; yea, even the same individual 
be first with one party and then with the other. But all 
those who were with the English were merely feigning, 
either because it was the stronger party, or in order 
to save the lands they possessed in England; for their 
hearts were always with their own people, although their 
persons might not be so.”
The English Levy
By feudal custom, the English king would often petition 
his major nobles to raise an army, sometimes to fight 
in France, sometimes in Scotland, sometimes both. 
Economic and political realities, plus the demands of 
fighting in France (which was by far the more important 
of the two areas to the English king) meant that a major 
campaign into Scotland could not occur every year.
In game terms, the English player will only be able to 
mount a major campaign into Scotland with a high 
movement hand. With a good movement hand, it 
is possible to get as far north as Moray in one year. 
However, wintering an army with Edward I at Mentieth 
or Fife is often the only practical way to campaign in the 
northern highlands.
Comyn & Bruce
The bitter struggle between the Bruce and Comyn 
factions for control of Scotland defined the conflict. 
Robert the Bruce was determined to win the Scottish 
throne that was—in his mind—wrongfully denied 
his family after King Alexander III’s death in 1286. 
Bruce’s changing allegiances during the first conflict 
(1297-1304) suggest that his main priority was 
possession of the crown, not national independence.
The Comyns, on the other hand, were the most powerful 
members of the Scottish ‘war party’ and strong 
supporters of the exiled King John Balliol. This made 
them not only natural enemies of the Bruce but also 
implacable foes of the English. They led the rebellion 
against England after Wallace’s defeat at Falkirk in 
1298, and made reluctant peace with Edward in 1304 
after the English king agreed they could keep their lands. 
Only when John ‘The Red’ Comyn, the Lord of Badenoch, 
was murdered by Bruce in a Dumfries church in 1306 
did the Comyns finally turn away from the cause of 
freedom and make firm alliance with the English.
The Auld Alliance
The Anglo-French conflict constrained Edward’s ability 
to prosecute the war in Scotland. French King Philip’s 
savage naval raids against English seaports in 1295 
caused hysteria throughout the realm and ensured 
that England would concentrate her primary attention 
southward. The disastrous Flemish campaign in 1297, 
reinforced anxiety over affairs across the channel.
By 1302, rumors reached England that the French were 
planning to send the Count of Artois at the head of a 
large force of knights to return the exiled King John 
Balliol to the Scottish throne. Alarmed that the Balliol 
dynasty might be reestablished at his expense, Robert 
the Bruce defected from the rebellion and made common 
cause with Edward I, who promised that, should he ever 
reestablish English authority in Scotland, Bruce would 
be King.
On July 11, 1302, however, the threat of a French 
invasion of Scotland was squashed forever. 13,000 men 
of Flanders adopted the schiltrom tactics pioneered by 
Wallace at Falkirk and slaughtered 7,500 French horse 
at the battle of Courtrai. When news of the disaster 
reached Scotland, the heart went out of the rebellion and 
Edward confidently turned his full attention to finishing 
off Comyn and his allies. By 1304, the war—so nearly 
won by the rebellious Scots two years earlier—had 
ended. Another, however, was about to begin.
Declaration of Arbroath, April 6, 1320
Yet if he [Robert the Bruce, King of Scotland] should 
give up what he has begun, and agree to make us or our 
kingdom subject to the King of England or the English, 
we should exert ourselves at once to drive him out as 
our enemy and a subverter of his own rights and ours, 
and make some other man who was well able to defend 
us our King; for, as long as but a hundred of us remain 
alive, never will we on any conditions be brought under 
English rule. It is in truth not for glory, nor for riches, 
nor honors that we are fighting, but for freedom—for that 
alone, which no honest man gives up but with life itself.