INTRODUCTION	
GAME COMPONENTS 	
	
2.1 Inventory	
	
2.2 The Playing Pieces 	
GLOSSARY OF GAME TERMS	
SETTING UP THE GAME 	
SEQUENCE OF PLAY	
REINFORCEMENTS 	
THE STRATEGY PHASE 	
STRATEGY CARDS 	
STACKING AND SUBORDINATION 	
MOVEMENT	
NAVAL MOVEMENT 	
LAND INTERCEPTION 	
AVOIDING LAND BATTLES AND PURSUIT 	
LAND BATTLES 	
RETREATS 	
WITHDRAWALS 	
ELEPHANTS 	
CONSULS AND CONSULAR ARMIES 	
POLITICAL CONTROL 	
SIEGES AND SUBJUGATION 	
ATTRITION 	
VICTORY CHECK PHASE 	
SUDDEN DEATH 	
SPECIAL ABILITIES 	
STRATEGY CARD LIST 	
OPTIONAL RULES 	
SOURCES 	
Original Hannibal game design
Mark Simonitch
Hamilcar game design
Jaro Andruszkiewicz, Mark Simonitch 
Creative Director
Jaro Andruszkiewicz
Artwork
Piotr Słaby, Rafał Szymański, Paweł Kaczmarczyk, Bartłomiej Jędrzejewski
Graphic design
Piotr Słaby, Krzysztof Klemiński
Rules translation and editing
Waldek Gumienny, Wojciech Sieroń, Jeremy Harrison, Piotr Górny, 
Russ Williams, José Garrido, Maximilien Da Cunha, Flavio Mortarino, Rodolphe 
Duhil, Piotr Zawada, Lance Moody, Michał Sieroń, Mitchell Land, 
Brian Mola, Kevin Duke, Andy Latto
Scenarios and Tutorials
Pieter van der Knapp, Waldek Gumienny, Wojciech Sieroń
Player Aid
Peter Gifford, Wojciech Sieroń
Hannibal & Hamilcar miniatures
Pride Hui; Hexy Studio: Tomasz Bar, Grzegorz Korniluk, Przemysław Pulit; 
Strato Minis Studio: Krzysztof Raczyński
Kickstarter & Production
Michał Ozon
Hamilcar inspired by an original work by
Alan R. Arvold
Scenarios and cards inspired by work of
Charles Féaux de la Croix, Roberto Ullfig, Charles Bahl, 
Andy Daglish, John Rodriguez
Historical flavour thanks to
Dariusz Góralski, Jarosław Sobczak, Jonathan Nikitas, Piotr Górny, 
Pieter van der Knaap, Mikołaj Lenczewski, Grzegorz Bakera, Tomasz Sordyl
Vassal testing module
Maciej Ciężadło
Kickstarter video
Marek Walczyk
Photography
Ewa Zawisza 
International Edition
Elena Nuñez, Alberto Bermejo, Olivier Chanry, Frank Heeren, Lorenzo Tucci
Thanks for your support
Charles Vasey, Jason Matthews, Martin Wallace, Ed Beach, Ty Bomba, 
Ryan Kieffer, Kevin Zucker, Andy Latto, John Krantz & ConsimWorld Community, 
BoardGameGeek.com Community, Kickstarter.com Community, 
Backerkit.com Community
Jaro’s very special thanks
Ewa, Ernest & Tytus

Introduction
Game Components
HANNIBAL & HAMILCAR is a two-player game based on the First and Second Punic Wars 
between Carthage and Rome. One player is the Romans and the other is the Carthaginians. 
These rules use a numbering system that allows players to easily reference a certain rule. 
Throughout the rules, you will often see numbers inside parentheses, like “(18.1)”, 
which means that the rule has an explanation that you can find by looking up the reference number. 
Sometimes, however, the numbers inside parentheses only refer to a section “(18.)”. 
In that case, the reference is to a whole section.
2.1. Inventory
A complete game includes:
22” × 33” (840 × 560 mm) double-sided 
mounted board, with the HANNIBAL map 
on one side and the HAMILCAR map on 
the other.
Rulebook
Playbook 
Scenario book
Player Aid charts
Reference map / 2007 edition tables
plastic Roman General figures
plastic Carthaginian General figures
classic Hannibal Strategy cards
additional Hannibal Strategy cards
multi-use Strategy cards
Hamilcar Strategy cards
Land Battle cards
Naval Tactics cards
Roman General cards
Carthaginian General cards
Political Control markers
Combat Units
General markers
Walled City markers
Large Walled City markers
Tribe markers
Siege markers
Siege Train markers
Roman Ships counters
Carthaginian Ships counters
Naval Supremacy marker
Corvus marker
Proconsul marker
Dictator marker
Turn / Truce marker
Supply markers
Archimedes Engines marker
Citadel marker
Forgotten Tactics marker
six-sided classic die 
six-sided Naval die
six-sided Siege dice (white and red)
six-sided Retreat dice (1 × 20 mm and 
1 × 25 mm)
plastic storage tray for miniatures 
(with closing lid)
zip bags

2.2. The Playing Pieces 
2.2.1. COMBAT UNITS (CU): Round playing pieces that have a picture of 
a Roman, Carthaginian, or Elephant printed on them. They represent a num-
ber of Combat Units of that type equal to the printed value. Throughout the 
rest of these rules, the term “Combat Unit” will be abbreviated as “CU” and 
pluralized as “CUs.” 
2.2.1.1. CU markers have various denominations (1, 2, 5, 10), and players 
can always “make change” among pieces of a given type as needed. 
2.2.1.2. Except for Siege Trains and Elephants, the number of CU markers 
supplied with the game is not an intentional limit. Players may create more 
if needed.
2.2.2. GENERALS: Each miniature figure represents a single General. You 
may use a General’s marker instead of the miniature.
2.2.3. POLITICAL CONTROL MARKERS: The circular playing pieces 
with a Roman symbol on one side and a Carthaginian symbol on the other 
side are used to show who has Political Control of a space. Throughout the 
rest of these rules, the term “Political Control marker” will be abbreviated as 
“PC” and pluralized as “PCs.” All the square playing pieces are Walled Cities, 
and the remaining oval pieces are Tribes. Walled Cities and Tribes act like 
PCs in all respects, except that both are more difficult to convert or remove 
(20.), and Walled Cities have special characteristics that are described where 
appropriate throughout the rules.
2.2.4. TURN MARKER: 
The Turn marker indicates the 
current turn on the Turn track 
on the board.
2.2.5. DICE:
Carthaginian CU
Elephant CU
CU Value
CU Value
Roman CU
Carthaginian PC
Roman PC
Carthaginian Walled City
Roman Walled City
Large
Walled City
Friendly Tribe
Neutral
Tribe
Strategy Rating
Battle Rating
Design Note:
The Walled Cities counters bear no names 
but one is unique as it represents 
the only non-port Walled City 
on the map: Capua.
Retreat Die 
(large)
Retreat Die 
(small)
Red Siege 
White 
Siege Die
Naval
Classic

3.1. Province
A group of spaces located within a Province boundary line. There are 22 
Provinces in the game (23 if you use the Mauretania option - 26.3), but only 
18 of them count for victory purposes (19.1). Political control of provinces is 
marked on the Provincial Display (eastern edge of the board).
3.2. Regions
Africa: All spaces in the four Provinces of Numidia Maior, Numidia Mi-
nor, Libya, and Carthago.
Iberia: All spaces in the four Provinces of Baetica, Celtiberia, Orospeda, 
and Idubeda.
Italia: All spaces in Gallia Cisalpina, Etruria, Samnium, Latium, Campa-
nia, Apulia, and Lucania.
Sicilia: All spaces in Sicilia and Syracusae.
Corsica & Sardinia: All spaces in Corsica and Sardinia.
Whenever we want to refer to a Province while describing an Event on 
Cards, we use its name in CAPITAL letters . When we refer to a Region, we use 
its name in bold. Provinces bear Latin names, hence Numidia Maior and not 
Major etc. The same logic is applied to the city names. Roma is the location 
on the map, Rome is often used when we mean the Roman player. Carthago 
is the location on the map, Carthage is the Carthaginian (city) state.
Control of the provinces is marked on the Provincial Display on the edge 
of the board. Simply place a PC marker of the controlling player in the space 
corresponding with the controlled province.
3.3. Army
An Army consists of a General and one or more friendly CUs stacked 
together in one space. 
The composition of an Army is public knowledge and may be inspected 
at any time by any player.
3.4. Force: A stack of CUs in a space. 
If the stack also contains a General then the Force is also an Army.
3.5. Consular Army: An Army commanded by a Consul (18.1). 
3.6. Consul: A Roman General is called either a Consul or a Proconsul. 
Consuls outrank Proconsuls (18.).
3.7. Operation Number (OP): The number between 1 and 3 on the 
upper left-hand corner of each Strategy Card, abbreviated as “OP” for the 
remainder of the rules and pluralized as “OPs.”
3.8. Political Control (PC): A player controls a space if he has a PC in 
it. A player controls a Province if he controls an absolute majority (more than 
half) of the spaces in the Province. A space containing a PC remains under 
the control of the owning player, even if an enemy General or CUs are also 
present.
3.9. Half. Whenever game rules refer to ‘half’ (half the number of PCs, half 
the number of cards, etc.) you always round fractions down.
3.10. Die. Whenever game rules refer to ‘die’, use the Classic Die. 
Provincial Display
Glossary Of Game Terms
The following are important game terms and abbreviations 
you should be familiar with before reading the rules:

Setting Up The Game
Sequence Of Play
HANNIBAL & HAMILCAR contain several different scenarios. 
The Hannibal scenarios depict the Second Punic War while Hamilcar depicts the First Punic War. 
It is suggested that new players start with the Hannibal scenarios. Once players are comfortable 
with Hannibal they can move on to the slightly more complex Hamilcar scenario.
See scenario rules for details.
HANNIBAL & HAMILCAR are played in turns, 
each of which must be played in the following order:
5.1. Reinforcement Phase (Skip this phase on first Turn). Players con-
duct the Reinforcement Phase in the following order:
5.1.1. The Carthaginian player places his reinforcements (6.1).
5.1.2. If the Carthaginian player has any displaced Generals (10.10), he 
may return them all to the map (6.1.1).
5.1.3. The Roman player places his Reinforcements (6.2).
5.1.4. The Roman player designates a Proconsul, removes his old Consuls, 
and randomly selects and places two new Consuls (6.4).
5.2. Deal Strategy Cards 
Deal each player the number of Strategy Cards listed on the Turn track.
5.3. Strategy Phase 
The players resolve this phase by playing their Strategy Cards one at 
a time, alternating back and forth between them (i.e., one player plays a card, 
then his opponent plays one). Check the Scenario to find out who goes first. 
The Strategy Phase ends when both players have exhausted their hands. 
5.4. Winter Attrition Phase 
Both players conduct Winter Attrition against their CUs stationed in hos-
tile spaces (21.1).
5.5. Political Isolation Removal Phase 
Both players (first the Roman, then the Carthaginian) remove all their 
non-Walled, non-Tribe PCs that are Isolated (19.4).
5.6. Victory Check Phase 
Both players calculate their Political Points (23.1). If one player has less 
Political Points than the other player, that player will lose a number of PCs 
(23.2).
5.7. End of Turn 
After completing the Victory Check, begin another game turn. Play con-
tinues until one side wins a Sudden Death Victory (24.) or all turns have 
been played.

Reinforcements
6.1. Carthaginian Reinforcements 
Refer to the scenario information to determine Carthaginian reinforcements.
6.1.1. Displaced Carthaginian Generals 
If there are any displaced (10.10) Carthaginian Generals, return them 
all to the game after placing all Carthaginian reinforcements. They may be 
placed in any space containing one or more Carthaginian CUs that are not 
currently under Siege.
6.2. Roman Reinforcements 
Refer to the scenario information to determine Roman reinforcements.
6.3. Restrictions on Placement 
Reinforcements may not be placed inside a besieged Walled City (see 
20.3 for the definition of “besieged”). In the event that an enemy Force oc-
cupies an unbesieged friendly Walled City space, reinforcements may still be 
placed inside the Walled City provided the total CUs in the Walled City do 
not exceed the maximum amount of CUs allowed within it (10.7). An ene-
my General without CUs does not restrict the placement of reinforcements 
and becomes displaced (10.10) if reinforcements are placed in that space. If 
Roma is besieged and all Roman Generals are inside Roma, then the Roman 
player does not receive any reinforcements. Carthaginian reinforcements are 
designated by specific areas. If Rome controls the area, those reinforcements 
are not placed. 
6.4. Electing Consuls and Proconsuls 
Rome was a republic ruled by the Senate. Wishing to avoid the pitfalls of 
kings and dictators, the Senate was very careful not to give too much power 
to military leaders. As such, during a war they would elect two Consuls each 
year to lead the Army or Armies. At the end of each year, two new Consuls 
would be elected, but in some cases a Consul would be allowed to remain 
with his Army if the situation required it (or if he was doing well), in which 
case the Senate made him a Proconsul. 
PROCEDURE:
During the Reinforcement Phase of each turn (except the first), the Ro-
man player must follow the procedures below for his Generals:
6.4.1. Designate one of the Roman Generals currently on the map as 
a Proconsul. (This is optional but recommended. The Roman player is not 
required to designate a Proconsul, but it allows him to have an extra General 
in play if he does.) 
6.4.2. Remove the other Roman General miniatures from the map and 
remove their General cards.
6.4.3. Randomly draw two Roman General cards to determine Consuls 
for the turn (those removed in step 2 are eligible to be drawn again). 
6.4.4. Place two new Roman Generals (Consuls) on the map.
6.5. Consul Placement 
Consuls may be placed together or in separate stacks, but must be placed 
in a space containing at least five Roman CUs (if there is only one such 
space, then both Consuls must be placed together). A Consul may be placed 
with a Proconsul, in which case the Proconsul becomes a subordinate (9.2). 
Roman Consuls may be placed inside a besieged Roma (Roman CUs may 
not) if there is no other legal space for them to be placed.
6.6. The Proconsul 
A Proconsul remains on the map with his current Army. You are only 
allowed one Proconsul in play at a time. Each Reinforcement Phase, you 
may elect to keep your Proconsul or dismiss him in favor of designating one 
of your departing Consuls as a Proconsul instead. Indicate which General is 
your Proconsul by placing the Proconsul marker on his card.
PROCONSUL
PROCONSUL
Proconsul Marker

6.7. Scipio Africanus
Scipio Africanus arrives as a reinforce-
ment in the Hannibal scenario on Turn 6 
(211-210 B.C.) as a second Proconsul. He 
brings five CUs (these are in addition to 
the five CUs the Roman player normally 
receives) with him. Scipio and his 5 CUs 
must be placed as a group; they may not 
be split up. The Roman player can place 
Scipio’s Army in any space in Italia that 
contains a friendly PC and no enemy CUs, 
or in any port space in Iberia that con-
tains a  friendly PC and no enemy CUs. 
Scipio’s Army arrives after the normal five 
CUs have been placed and before the two 
new Consuls have been elected. He may 
not be placed inside a Walled City. If there 
are no such spaces on the map on Turn 6, 
Scipio Africanus and his Army never enter 
the game. 
Once on the map, Scipio acts as 
a  permanent Proconsul for the Roman 
player, allowing him to have two Procon-
suls in play.
The Strategy Phase
7.1. Receiving Strategy Cards 
Each player is dealt a number of cards from the Strategy Deck during 
each turn as listed on the Turn track or in the scenario rules.
7.2. Two Options for Each Card 
Each card played allows the player to use either the Operation Points 
(OPs) on the card (8.2) or enact the Event on the card to occur (8.3). If you 
wish to do neither, you may discard the card for no effect. 
7.3. Who Goes First 
Each scenario details which player goes first.
7.3.1. Preempting Who Goes First 
In order to determine who goes first, the deciding player needs to ask the 
opponent if he is going to preempt.
7.3.2. How to Preempt
In order to preempt the player must immediately play a Major or Minor 
Campaign Card (either as an Event or OP Card). The deciding player will 
then go second for the rest of the Turn,
If there is no Preempt, the deciding player declares who goes first.
Carthaginian player (a deciding player) asks the Roman player if he is will-
ing to Preempt. The Roman player has a Major Campaing card in hand but 
decides not to Preempt. Carthaginian player then decides that the Roman 
player will go first. The Roman player may now play any card as his first card 
play, including the Major Campaign card. 
The deciding player first asks the opposing player if he is going to preempt 
by playing a Campaign Card. If not, then the deciding player declares who 
will play first. 
7.4. Ending the Strategy Phase 
The players alternate playing Strategy Cards until all cards in each player’s 
hand have been played. At this point, the Strategy Phase ends. It is possible 
that one player may use all of his Strategy Cards while his opponent still has 
several left in his hand. In this case, the player who still has Strategy Cards 
plays them one at a time until he has played all of them.
May roll two Siege dice
and use both results if Besieging 
with a Forced March Card.
p. c. Scipio
Africanus

Strategy Cards
8.1. Description 
Each Strategy Card has two primary 
elements: a number between 1 and 3 in 
the upper left corner (called the Oper-
ation Points or OPs) and an Event. The 
type of circle around the number shows 
who may use the Event (8.3). The OPs 
number is used to activate Generals or 
place PCs. The Event is only available if 
the OP is not used. 
A ship symbol in the upper left cor-
ner (on 3-OP Strategy Cards) indicates 
the card can be used for Naval Move-
ment (11.). 
An Infantry unit in the upper right corner indicates that 1 CU can be mo-
bilized. 
 means that there is a detailed description of the card in section 
25 of the rulebook.
An elephant/ship icon in the bottom left corner indicates whether the card 
is used solely in Hannibal 
 or Hamilcar 
 scenarios.
8.2. Using the Operation Points (OPs) 
The OPs on the card allows you to do one of the following:
a) MOVE A GENERAL: (with or without CUs) whose Strategy Rating is 
less than or equal to the OPs number (10.). 
A 1-OP Strategy Card can only move a General with a Strategy Rating of 1. 
A 2-OP Strategy Card can move a General with a Strategy Rating of 1 or 2. 
A 3-OP Strategy Card can move any General. 
b) PLACE PCs: Place a quantity of PCs on the map equal to the OPs 
number. One PC can be placed in each space that does not contain a Tribe 
or Walled City or an enemy CU. You can also convert a PC marker in a space 
containing an enemy PC marker (by flipping it over) if you have a CU in that 
space (19.2).
If you play a 3-OP Strategy Card you could place three of your PCs, flip 
three enemy PCs, or a combination of both. 
Carthage wants to control the province of Idubeda. This requires control 
of at least 4 spaces within this province. Bilbilis is already controlled, so Car-
thage just needs 3 more spaces.
Place two CUs with any friendly 
General located in a friendly
controlled province of Iberia.
Iberian Recruits
OPS Value = 1
OPS Value = 3
Minor (5CU) Naval Move 
allowed (one ship)
OPS Value = 3
Major (10CU) Naval Move 
allowed (two ships)
Place the Siege Train marker
with any Carthaginian General.
If the Siege Train is present at the Siege,
it cancels the 
 special effect.
If the besieged city has no 
– use Red Siege Dice instead of White.
Siege Train
MoVe UP To Three GeneralS
Each General can move
up to four spaces with
up to ten CUs.
Major Campaign

By playing a 3 OP card, the Carthaginian player may flip both Roman PCs 
in Dertosa and Tarraco and then place the remaining PC in either Numantia or 
Osca (a total of 3 PCs can be placed).
c) RAISE TROOPS: This is only allowed with a  3-OP Strategy Card. 
Playing a 3-OP Strategy Card in this way allows the player to place one 
CU with any one General who is located in a  friendly controlled space 
in a friendly controlled Province. You may not raise troops in a besieged 
Walled City (20.4).
8.3. Events 
The OPs on each Strategy Card are 
color-coded to show who can enact the 
Event to happen. Events playable only 
by the Romans have a red background; 
Carthaginian Events have a blue back-
ground. Events that can be played by 
either player have a half-red, half-blue 
background. Regardless of the colors 
depicted, either player can use the OPs 
of any card.
8.4. Counter Events 
Counter Events can be played in the 
middle of a card play or Battle. Counter 
Event Cards are marked with a crossed-
swords icon and purple frames.
Playing a  Counter Event does not 
count as your normal play; you must still play a Strategy Card (if you have 
one) for your next normal play. Playing a Counter Event reduces your remain-
ing number of normal plays.
Note that some Events may be used as a Counter Event or as your card 
play during your turn (e.g. #7 Hostile Tribes) if the conditions on the card 
are met.
8.5. “Remove if Played” Cards 
When an Event happens that states “REMOVE IF PLAYED” the card 
must be removed from the game after it is played as an Event. Return such 
cards to the box so that they are not reshuffled with the regular deck.
A “REMOVE IF PLAYED” card is not removed if used only for the OPs. 
8.6. Discarding 
You may discard a Strategy Card rather than play it. In this case, no action 
occurs, and it now becomes your opponent’s turn to play a Strategy Card. 
Discards must be played face-up for your opponent to see and are then 
placed into the discard pile. The discard pile may be examined by any player 
at any time.
8.7. Reshuffling 
If there are not enough Strategy Cards in the Strategy Deck to deal a full 
hand to each player for the upcoming turn, reshuffle the entire Strategy Deck 
and the discard pile (excluding cards that have been permanently removed 
from play) before any cards are dealt. 
8.7.1 The deck is also reshuffled when the Truce card (event #64) is played 
or discarded (it does not matter if the Event is used or not). In this case, the 
deck is reshuffled at the end of the turn.
Counter Event Card
Play whenever an opposing Force 
occupies (or enters) a space
in hostile Province.
The Force immediately undergoes 
Attrition on the column.
May be played
as an Event or Counter Event.
Hostile Tribes

9.1. Stacking CUs 
There is no limit to the number of CUs that can be stacked in a space.
9.2. Stacking Generals 
There can be more than one General in a space, but only one can be the 
commanding General. All other Generals in the same space are considered 
subordinates. Keep the commanding General on the map, and place the 
subordinates on the commanding General’s card. 
Mago and Gisgo are subordinates to Hannibal at the start of the Hannibal 
scenario. 
When a  commanding General moves, the subordinate Generals freely 
move with him. A subordinate on a commander’s card does not affect the 
commander in any way. While a General is acting as a subordinate, his Spe-
cial Abilities (24.) may not be used. 
9.3. Rank 
Hannibal and Hamilcar Barca outrank all other Carthaginian Generals. 
Consuls outrank Proconsuls. 
If two or more Generals of the same rank exist in an Army, the controlling 
player may change who is the commander before he activates the Army. 
However, if one General “outranks” another, then the ranking General must 
be the commander. 
 
If two Consuls are in the same space, a Change of Command Die Roll 
may be required to determine who is in command (18.2). See Combining 
Armies (10.8) for more details on how rank affects Armies with multiple 
commanders.
10.1. Who May Move
Generals may move with or without CUs. CUs cannot move unless accom-
panied by a General. A General can be moved when a Strategy Card is played 
with OPs equal to or greater than his Strategy Rating. A General and the CUs 
stacked with him are collectively called an “Army”. Only one Army can be 
moved by play of a Strategy Card, unless a Campaign Card is played (10.11). 
10.2. Movement Procedure 
You can move a  General up to four spaces (six spaces with a  Force 
March card or Nero Special Ability). A General can move with up to 10 
CUs. As you move a General, you can pick up and drop off CUs and Gen-
erals of equal or lesser rank along the way, as long as there are never more 
than ten CUs moving with the General at any time. You may move a Gen-
eral into any space that is adjacent (i.e., connected by a line) to the space 
that the General occupies. The sequence below must be followed when 
moving an Army: 
10.2.1 Select the General you wish to activate. If there are two or more 
Generals with an Army, you may designate which is the commanding Gener-
al (under the restrictions of 9.3). Then select up to ten CUs and any number 
of subordinates to accompany the commanding General. 
10.2.2 Play a Strategy Card that can move the commanding General (8.2). 
10.2.3 Move the Army. As the Army enters each space, it may trigger 
a Reaction Phase (10.3) for the non-active player, which is conducted before 
proceeding to step 4. 
Stacking And Subordination
Movement

10.2.4. If the non-active player was successful with an Interception (12.), 
the active Army has the option to back up one space and end its move (12.5). 
10.2.5. If there is only one enemy CU in a space and the active army 
consists of at least 5 CUs, the active Army may conduct an Overrun at this 
time (10.5). 
10.2.6. Repeat steps 3 - 5 until the activated Army has completed its move. 
10.2.7. The Army may now conduct one of the following: either a Siege 
or Subjugation attempt (20.) or a Land Battle (14.). However, an Army may 
never conduct a Land Battle and then a Siege or Subjugation on the play of 
a single Strategy Card.
10.3. Reaction Phase 
Each space an Army enters may trigger a possible reaction by the non-ac-
tive player. This is called the Reaction Phase and follows this sequence:
10.3.1. If the space contains a Walled City, the non-active player declares 
his CUs inside or outside the city and moves them above or below the Walled 
City marker as appropriate. (10.7) 
10.3.2. The non-active player declares all his Land Interception (12.) 
and Avoid Land Battle (13.) attempts. All must be declared before any are 
carried out, and the non-active player is required to attempt all those he 
designates. 
10.3.3. If an Avoid Land Battle is declared, the non-active player must roll 
for its success and, if successful, move the Army out of the space. 
10.3.4. If any Interceptions are declared, the non-active player must con-
duct them now (in any order he wishes). An Army Intercepting into a space 
may not enter a Walled City, since non-active CUs can only enter Walled 
Cities during Step 1 above.
10.4. Enemy Occupied Spaces 
10.4.1. When you move an Army into a space containing one or more en-
emy CUs, and those enemy CUs do not, cannot, or fail to Avoid Land Battle 
(13.), your Army must stop, end its movement, and Battle the enemy Force 
(Exception: 10.5). 
10.4.2. A General without an Army may not move into a space containing 
an enemy CU or stop in a space containing an enemy General without an 
Army (he may pass through such a space).
10.5. Overruns 
If your Army has at least five CUs and it enters a space containing a sin-
gle enemy CU without a General, the enemy CU is automatically eliminated 
with no loss to you. This is not considered a Land Battle, so you do not deal 
out Battle Cards (14.). Your Army can continue its movement with no loss to 
its normal movement points. There is no restriction on the number of times 
your Army may do this in a single turn; it is only limited by the General’s 
movement points. But this only happens when at least five CUs enter a space 
with only one enemy CU. Two or more CUs cannot be overrun.
10.6. Mountain Passes and Straits 
Movement across Mountain Passes (Alps and non-Alps types) and across 
Straits costs two (instead of one) from your General’s movement points.
10.6.1. MOUNTAIN PASS ATTRITION: Each time an Army crosses a Moun-
tain Pass, it must roll for Attrition (21.1) immediately after crossing the Pass. 
10.6.1.1. If the Mountain Pass was a non-Alps Pass, modify your die roll by -2. 
10.6.1.2. If the Mountain Pass was an Alps Pass, your die roll is not modified.
10.6.2. STRAITS: Land Movement across the Strait of Messana is allowed only 
if the moving player controls the city from which the movement is originating. 
In previous editions the control 
of both Messana and Regium 
was required to move across this strait.
Both players can use Naval Movement between these Ports. Movement 
across the Strait of Sardinia is allowed, regardless of control.
10.6.3. OTHER EFFECTS: Interception (12.), Avoid Land Battle (13.), 
Withdrawals (16.) and Retreats (15.) are prohibited across Mountain Passes 
(both types) and Straits. 
10.7. Walled Cities and Movement 
Players should consider a Walled City as a space within a space. Generals 
and CUs can be inside or outside of the city. The number of CUs that can fit 
inside a city is limited; Roma and Carthago can hold five CUs while all other 
Walled Cities can hold two CUs. CUs and Generals may be split: Some may 
be declared inside, some outside. To indicate which CUs are inside a Walled 
City, place them beneath the Walled City marker. Those on top of the marker 
are considered outside the city. Generals inside a city can be placed to the 
side of the Walled City marker. CUs that remain outside of the city stop 
enemy movement; CUs inside the city do not. You may move your CUs and 
Generals from inside a Walled City to outside of a Walled City (and vice ver-
sa) in the following situations: 
ACTIVE PLAYER: Through normal movement (the play of a  Strategy 
Card) during your player turn. Movement into a city is usually the last act of 
a moving Army (10.2). 
NON-ACTIVE PLAYER: If an enemy Army enters a non-besieged Walled 
City space and the non-active player has CUs or Generals there, he may 
declare the CUs and/or Generals “inside” or “outside.” His decision may 
change each time an enemy Army enters the space.
10.8. Combining Armies 
An activated General may pick up another General of equal or lesser rank 
(with or without CUs) and keep moving. The General being picked up must 

become a subordinate for that move. A General that outranks the activated 
General may not be picked up. If a General ends its move in a space con-
taining another General and the new General outranks the activated General, 
then the activated General becomes a  subordinate. If a  General ends its 
move in a space containing another General of equal rank, then the activated 
General becomes the commanding General and the other General becomes 
a subordinate. A General that ends his turn as the commanding General in 
an Army remains so until a future activation changes the command.
10.9. Dividing Armies 
An Army may drop off subordinate Generals (with or without CUs) at any 
time. A subordinate in the commanding General’s card may be activated and 
moved off with as many CUs from the commanding General’s Army as the 
controlling player wishes (Exception: 18.1). Place the subordinate onto the 
map and use the space occupied by the commander as his starting space. 
The subordinate becomes the commanding General of this new Army and 
may bring along other subordinates that do not outrank him. A subordinate 
that detaches and moves off counts as moving one General (i.e., activating 
a subordinate does not allow the commanding General to move).
In the Hannibal scenario, Hannibal, with Gisgo and Mago as subordinates, 
started in Saguntum and moved through Dertosa, Tarraco, Emporiae to Narbo. 
The Carthaginian player dropped off Gisgo and Mago (with CUs) in Dertosa and 
Tarraco. These subordinates could have also have been dropped off without CUs.
10.10. Displaced Generals 
A General becomes displaced if an enemy Army enters the General’s space 
and the General is not accompanied by friendly CUs. A General also becomes 
displaced if all CUs accompanying the General are eliminated due to Retreat 
Die roll casualties, Retreat losses, or the Naval Movement Table. A General is 
not displaced if all CUs under his command are removed due to the Attrition 
Table, the Storms at Sea (Event #60), or the Land Battle Casualties die roll.
A displaced general is removed from the map and does not return 
to play until the next Reinforcement Phase (5.)
EXCEPTIONS: 
In the Hannibal scenarios, if Scipio Africanus is displaced, he 
is eliminated and returned to the box. 
If Hannibal is displaced, he is eliminated and the Carthagin-
ian player must remove five non-Walled City, non-Tribe Car-
thaginian PCs from any spaces on the map. This is in addition 
to any PCs losses resulting from the Land Battle that led to 
Hannibal’s death. 
10.11. Campaign Event Limitations 
a) When a Campaign Event is played, more than one Army can be acti-
vated. 
b) Each commanding General must complete all movement and Land 
Battles before another General can be activated. 
c) A CU or subordinate moved by one General during a Campaign can be 
moved by another General during the same Campaign as long as no CU or 
General moves more than four spaces (Exception: Nero 10.12). 
d) Once an Army participates in a Land Battle, Siege/Subjugation, backs 
up one space to avoid being Intercepted (12.5), or fails its Pursuit die roll 
(13.4), all CUs and Generals in the Army are considered to have spent all 
their movement capability and may not be moved by another General during 
that Campaign. 
e) A Campaign Event cannot activate a single General multiple times.
f) SIEGES AND SUBJUGATION: A Campaign Event cannot be used to 
conduct more than one siege or subjugation against the same Walled City 
or Tribe, but it can be used to Battle the defenders from the space and then 
used again to conduct a siege or subjugation against the space, as long as 
a different General performed each action.
Naval Movement
11.1. Procedure 
A General (with or without CUs) may move from a Port space to any oth-
er Port space using Naval Movement. CUs without a General may not use 
Naval Movement. Naval Movement is possible when a 3-OP Strategy Card or 
a Campaign Event is played. (Cards enabling Naval Movement have a ship 
icon in the upper left corner.)
A Naval Movement expends three movement points. 

You can move one space to a Port and then use Naval Movement; or you 
can start at a Port, use Naval Movement, and then move one space inland.
 
11.2. Enemy Controlled Ports 
Control of a Port is not necessary 
for embarkation or debarkation. Naval 
Movement is allowed into and out of 
any Port space, including a Port that 
contains an enemy PC or CUs. (An 
Army’s movement must nonetheless 
stop if it enters a  space with enemy 
CUs (10.4).)
11.3. Naval Movement 
and Walled Cities 
Naval 
Movement 
directly 
into 
a  Walled City (as opposed to simply 
landing outside the city) is allowed if 
the Walled City is friendly controlled 
and not currently besieged (see 20.3 
for the definition of “besieged”). Naval 
Movement is prohibited into and out of besieged Walled Cities. Note that 
this does not prevent Naval Movement into and out of a space containing 
a besieged Walled City (in this case, the troops are embarking or debarking 
outside the city walls).
11.4. Naval Movement Limit 
A Major or Minor Campaign Event allows an Army with up to ten CUs 
to use Naval Movement (only one of the two or three Armies that may move 
with a Campaign Event can use Naval Movement). A 3-OP Strategy Card 
allows one Army with up to five CUs to use Naval Movement.
11.5. Roman Naval 
Supremacy 
In the Hannibal scenarios 
the Roman player enjoys naval 
supremacy, so any Carthaginian 
Sea Movement runs the risk of 
being sunk. Each time a Carthag-
inian General or Army moves by 
sea, the Roman player rolls the 
Naval Movement Die on the Na-
val Movement Table. 
Macedonian Alliance is in effect, Syracusae is allied with Carthage, and 
this is a Year of Carthaginian Naval Victory. Mago and 1 CU move from Ro-
man controlled Utica to Roman controlled Aleria.
Add all the blue dots first:
l for Port value at the start of the move (Utica)
l for a General moving with 1 CU
l for Mago moving
l l l for each Event in effect (1 dot each)
A total of 6 dots.
Now the diamonds:
u for Port value at the end of the move (Aleria)
u diamond for Roman control of Aleria
u diamond for Roman control of Utica
A total of 3 diamonds.
Now roll the Naval Die and add the die roll to your dots or diamonds.
NOTE: The Naval Die has the following values:
11.6. Naval Movement Table Results
Sunk: The CUs are eliminated and the General is displaced. CUs lost at 
sea do not count towards Political Consequences (14.13).
Return: The moving Army must return to the Port of embarkation and his 
remaining movement points are lost.
Success: No effect; the Naval Movement is successful.
Draw one Strategy Card from
your opponent’s hand and add it
to your own.
Messenger
Intercepted
Naval Movement Card
If
If
If any of:
you’ve got more dots than diamonds, and the result is:
 is rolled,
is rolled then, you arrived
at 6 dots and 7 diamonds, so the result is:
is rolled, then you arrived
at 6 dots and 6 diamonds, so the result is:

12.1. In General 
Land Interception is a special kind of movement that allows a non-active 
Army to advance one space during an opposing General’s move and inter-
rupt the movement of the enemy Army. Interception forces the moving Army 
to fight a Land Battle (14.) or back up one space (12.5). If the non-active 
Army contains more than 10 CUs, only a maximum of 10 CUs are allowed 
to attempt Land Interception.
12.2. When Can a Land Interception Occur? 
Any Army controlled by the non-active player may attempt an Intercep-
tion whenever an enemy Army or General enters a space (via land or Na-
val Movement) adjacent to the Army and the space does not contain any 
non-moving enemy CUs. An Army may attempt Interception each time the 
above condition occurs (e.g., if an enemy Army tried to move around your 
Army you could attempt to Intercept in each adjacent space which did not 
already contain an enemy CU). 
Scipio Africanus moves to attack Gisgo. When Scipio enters Space A, both 
Hannibal and Gisgo can attempt to Intercept. When Scipio moves into Gisgo’s 
space, Gisgo cannot Intercept, but Hannibal and Mago can.
12.3. Land Interception Restrictions 
You may not Intercept into a space that contains one or more non-moving 
enemy CUs. 
You may not Intercept across any Mountain Pass (neither Alp or non-Alp) 
or Strait. 
Interceptions may only occur against the active player’s movement. You 
cannot Intercept an attempt to Avoid Land Battle (13.1), Withdrawal (16.), or 
Retreat (15.), nor may you Intercept an Interception. 
12.4. Land Interception Attempt Die Roll 
To Intercept, declare which General and how many CUs are attempting, 
then roll the die. Modify the die roll by +1 if the space your Army is Intercept-
ing into contains an enemy PC and no friendly CUs. If the modified die roll 
is less than or equal to your commanding General’s Battle Rating, the Inter-
ception attempt is successful and you must move the General and all CUs 
you declared that are participating, into the space. In a Land Battle caused 
by a successful Interception, the Intercepting player receives one extra Battle 
Card to simulate the effects of surprise. One is the maximum benefit, even if 
two or more Armies Intercept successfully. 
The original active player is still the attacker and will still play the first 
Battle Card in the Land Battle, not the Intercepting non-active player.
12.5. Backing Up One Space 
An Army which is Intercepted is never required to Battle; it may instead 
back up to the space it most recently occupied and end its movement. If 
an Army has to back up across a Pass, it must roll for Attrition again. If an 
Army has to back up from a Naval Movement, then it returns to its Port of 
embarkation. If it were a Naval Movement by a player without Naval Su-
premacy (11.5), that player would have to roll again on his Naval Movement 
Modifiers Table. If the result is a “Return” then that player may not back 
up and must land in the Port space, be Intercepted, and Battle. If an Army 
backs up into an enemy Walled City or Tribe space, it may still conduct 
a Siege or Subjugation on that space. 
12.6. Multiple Land Interceptions 
You may conduct more than one Interception attempt into the same 
space if you have more than one Army adjacent to the space your opponent 
is about to enter. In this case, you must declare all Interception attempts 
before any are resolved, and your opponent may wait until all are resolved be-
fore he decides to Battle or back up. If more than one Interception succeeds, 
Land Interception 
H. Gisgo
H. Gisgo
Hannibal
Hannibal
Mago
Mago
A

then the successful Armies are combined in the space under the command 
of one General and the moving player must now decide to Battle with his 
moving Army or back up one space (12.5). The Intercepting commander with 
the highest rank is the commander of the combined Army; if there are two 
or more Generals with the highest rank, then the Intercepting player may 
choose which of these General is the commander.
12.7. Subordinates and Land Interceptions 
You may dispatch a portion of your Army (under a subordinate or the com-
mander) for an Interception. You must declare which General and how many 
CUs will make the attempt. No matter how many subordinates an Army has, 
only one Interception can start from each space (i.e., you may not make two 
or more Interception attempts from the same space in hopes that at least one 
will make it). If a subordinate Intercepts, he becomes the commander of the 
Intercepting Force and the commanding General must be left behind with at 
least 1 CU (but Consuls may not be left with fewer than 5 CUs (18.1)).
12.8. Land Interceptions and Walled Cities 
An Army inside a  Walled City may Intercept an Army in an adjacent 
space if there are no enemy CUs outside the Walled City. Conversely, if you 
Intercept an Army that enters a Walled City space by land movement, a Land 
Battle occurs, unless all CUs retreat into the Walled City. An Army backing 
up one space may never leave behind CUs outside the Walled City. Although 
Walled Cities are considered a space within a space, an Army inside a Walled 
City may not Intercept an enemy Army that enters the Walled City space. 
Armies inside a Walled City may not Intercept an enemy Army that just left 
the Walled City space.
12.9. Land Interceptions and Overruns 
Overruns occur after Interceptions, so an Intercepting Army may prevent 
an Overrun. 
12.10. Failed Land Interceptions and Avoid Land Battle 
If an Army fails an Interception attempt, it is prohibited from attempting 
an Avoid Land Battle (13.) against that same Army during the current card 
play. The Army that failed the Interception may still attempt other Intercep-
tions without restrictions, and may even attempt to Avoid Land Battle against 
other Armies if the card in play is a Campaign Event.
Avoiding Land Battles And Pursuit
13.1. Avoid Land Battle 
This option is available to the non-active player only. If an enemy Army 
enters a space containing one of your Armies, or one or more of your Generals 
without CUs, you may attempt to Avoid Land Battle. To determine if the attempt 
succeeds, roll the die. If the die roll is less than or equal to your commanding 
General’s Battle Rating, the Avoid Land Battle succeeds. A successful Avoid 
Land Battle allows you to move your Army or Generals out of the space and 
into any adjacent space (see restrictions below). If the die roll was greater than 
the commanding General’s Battle Rating, then the Army remains in the space 
and a Land Battle is resolved, with the Army that failed to Avoid Battle receiving 
one less Battle Card (representing the loss of morale by the failed Avoidance). 
Generals without CUs who fail to Avoid Land Battle are displaced (10.10).
13.2. Restrictions on Avoid Land Battle 
No more than 10 CUs may Avoid Land Battle. An Army that contains 
more than 10 CUs must leave behind all CUs in excess of ten. CUs and 
Generals that failed an Interception attempt may not attempt to Avoid Land 
Battle against the same Army in the current round (12.10). An Army or Gen-
eral Avoiding Land Battle follows these restrictions:
a. may leave CUs and/or Generals behind (as long as 18.1 is not violated),
b. may not cross a Mountain Pass (either type) or Strait,
c. may not enter a space containing an enemy CU or PC,
d. may not enter the space from which the enemy Army is advancing, 
e. may not enter a non-friendly Tribe space.
13.3. Subordinates and Avoid Land Battle 
You may Avoid Land Battle with a subordinate. In this case, the com-
manding General must be left behind with at least one CU (or 5 CUs if leav-
ing behind a Consul (18.1)). Only one Avoid Land Battle attempt is allowed 
per Reaction Phase, so Generals may not split up and Avoid Land Battle 
into different spaces, nor may you Avoid Land Battle with one General after 
failing with another.

13.4. Pursuit 
After a successful Avoid Land Battle, the active player may attempt to con-
tinue moving (either to pursue or to move off in a different direction). To deter-
mine if the attempt is successful, roll the die. If the die roll is less than or equal 
to your General’s Battle Rating, your Army can continue movement. If your 
General has already moved the four-space limit (or six spaces if moving with 
a Force March card), or the die roll is greater than his Land Battle Rating, then 
your Army must stop in its current space. If your Army pursues the Army that 
Avoided Battle, then your opponent can try to Avoid Land Battle again, and 
you may attempt to pursue again. This can continue until your opponent fails 
his Avoid Land Battle die roll or your General has moved his limit.
13.5. Walled Cities and Avoid Land Battle 
An Army located on a Walled City space but currently outside the city 
has two options. The controlling player may declare the Army inside the city 
when the enemy Army appears or he may declare the Army outside the city 
and attempt an Avoid Land Battle. The first case would not slow the move-
ment of the enemy Army, but the second case might (if the Avoid Land Battle 
succeeds and the pursuit does not). If the Avoid Land Battle is successful, the 
Army located on the Walled City space may then freely enter the Walled City 
if it is empty of enemy forces. The active player would need to make a suc-
cessful pursuit roll to keep moving.
13.6. Sieges/Subjugation and Pursuit 
An Army that fails its pursuit die roll but ends its move on a Walled City 
or Tribe space may still conduct a siege or subjugation against the space (20.).
14.1. Battle Cards (BC) 
Land Battles are resolved using 
Battle Cards. Throughout the rest of 
these rules, the term “Battle Card” will 
be abbreviated as “BC” and pluralized 
as “BCs.” 
Battle Card Distribution
– 12 Frontal Assault
– 9 Flank Left
– 9 Flank Right
– 8 Probe
– 6 Double Envelopment
– 4 Reserve
Players are dealt a number of BCs as described below: 
– BCs equal to the commanding General’s Battle Rating (if a General is 
present)
– one (1) BC for each CU present in the Land Battle 
– one (1) BC if the Land Battle was caused by a successful Interception (12.4)
– one (1) less BC for the non-active Army if it unsuccessfully attempted to 
Avoid Land Battle (13.1)
– a variable number of BCs for Allies (14.2), if a General is present (14.3) 
– one (1) BC if the Land Battle space contains a friendly Tribe (20.8)
– the Roman player receives 2 BCs for any Land Battle in Latium (14.4)
20 CARD LIMIT: Regardless of other factors, a player’s maximum BC hand 
size (before consideration of any possible reduction for an Elephant charge) is 
20 cards. Any additional BCs beyond 20 are not drawn. 
Land Battles
Land Battles are initiated when a player moves an Army into a space containing enemy CUs 
and those enemy CUs do not, cannot or fail to Avoid Land Battle. 
A Land Battle forces the moving Army to stop and end its movement.
Double
Envelopment
Player matching this card
takes Initiative.
Roll Retreat Die. Remove number
of Loser’s Combat Units equal
to number of 
. Remove all if .
Battle Card

After every Land Battle ends, all BCs are shuffled back together into a single 
deck, from which subsequent Land Battles will be drawn.
14.2. Allies 
14.2.1. Players receive additional BCs for having Allies. A player gains Allies 
by having Political Control of Provinces (determined at the moment of the 
Land Battle). 
14.2.2. Each Province is worth one BC, except Numidia Maior and Numid-
ia Minor, which are worth two each. Allies have limited availability.
14.2.3. AVAILABLE ALLIES
14.2.3.1. Allies in Africa, Iberia, and Italia are available in any Province with-
in their region. Note that Africa, Iberia and Italia are color coded on the map.
14.2.3.2. Allies on Sicily are available in both provinces on the island (Sicilia 
and Syracusae).
14.2.3.3. Allies in the independent provinces (Baleares, Corsica/Sardinia, 
Gallia Transalpina, Massilia, Liguria and, if in play, Mauretania) are not avail-
able outside of their own provinces.
EXAMPLE 1:
Carthage controls three Provinces in Iberia while Rome controls one. No 
matter where the Land Battle takes place in Iberia, the Carthaginian Player will 
receive three BCs for Allies while the Roman Player will receive one. 
EXAMPLE 2:
The Land Battle is in Africa. Carthage controls Carthago and Libya, while 
Rome controls Numidia Maior. In this case, both players would receive two BCs 
for Allies. 
EXAMPLE 3:
The Land Battle is in Sicilia, which is outside of Italia. Whoever controls 
Sicilia would receive one BC for Allies and whoever controls Syracusae would 
receive one BC. No other Allies are possible. 
EXAMPLE 4:
The Land Battle is in Corsica/Sardinia. Whoever controls Corsica/Sardinia 
would receive one BC. No other Allies are possible.
14.3. Restrictions on Allies 
14.3.1. GENERALS: You may only receive bonus cards for Allies if you have 
a General in the Land Battle. If multiple Land Battles occur in the same Prov-
ince or country during the play of a Campaign Event, all Land Battles receive 
the bonus for Allies, as long as they have Generals present. 
14.3.2. ITALIAN ALLIES: The Roman player may never receive more than 
two BCs for Allies in Italia. 
In the Hannibal scenario, the Carthaginian player controls Gallia Cisalpina 
and Lucania. The Roman player controls Campania, Samnium, and Etruria. 
Neither side controls Apulia. Both sides would receive two extra BCs for Allies. 
14.4. Militia
Rome receives two extra BCs for any Land Battle that occurs in Latium (this 
is in addition to any BCs for Italian Allies). This militia is available even if there 
is no General present in Roma.
14.5. Sequence of Land Battle Resolution 
The active player begins as the attacker and the non-active player as the 
defender. Each Land Battle is conducted separately, so the identity of the at-
tacker and defender can change from Land Battle to Land Battle (and indeed, 
from round to round during a Land Battle). Prepare for Land Battle using this 
sequence: 
14.5.1. Change of Command Die Roll (18.2).
14.5.2. Attacker plays Land Battle-related Strategy Cards.
14.5.3. Defender plays Land Battle-related Strategy Cards.
14.5.4. Elephant charge declaration (17.) and charge die roll, unless Ele-
phant Fright (Event #42) is immediately played before the die roll (Hamilcar: 
Deduct 2 from the die roll if Forgotten Tactics is in effect).
14.5.5. Deal BCs, display cards revealed by Spy in Enemy Camp (Event 
#20), and begin Land Battle.
Some Strategy Cards are played during Land Battle. Reference the Strategy 
Card for exact details on when it should be played. 
14.6. Battle Round 
A Land Battle is fought in Battle Rounds. In each Battle Round, first the 
attacker plays a BC and then the defender must play a BC that matches the at-
tacker’s BC (14.7). If the defender is unable or unwilling to match the attacker’s 
BC, he loses the Land Battle. If the defender’s BC matches the attacker’s BC, 
another Battle Round must be played. The players continue playing out Battle 
Rounds until one wins. 
14.7. Matching the Attacker’s Battle Card 
The defender matches the attacker’s BC by playing one of exactly the same 
type. Thus a Frontal Attack card is matched by another Frontal Attack card, 
a Probe card is matched by a Probe card, etc. 
LAND BATTLE TIP: If you are the attacker, usually the best card to play is 
the type that is predominant in your hand. With only 48 cards in the Battle 
Card Deck, if you have many of one type, your opponent is likely to have only 
a few. Examine the number and type of cards in the Battle Card Deck (14.1).
14.8. Counterattacks 
14.8.1. After each Battle Round, the defender may attempt to counterattack 
if his Force has a General. If successful, he becomes the attacker in the next 
Battle Round, and the former attacker becomes the defender. 

To attempt a counterattack, the defender rolls the die. 
If the die roll is less than or equal to his commanding General’s Battle Rat-
ing, he has seized the initiative and becomes the attacker. 
If the die roll is greater than his General’s Battle Rating, he fails and remains 
the defender in the next Battle Round. 
14.8.2. DOUBLE ENVELOPMENT EXCEPTION: If the attacker plays 
a Double Envelopment and the defender matches it, then the defender can 
automatically (though it is not mandatory) gain the initiative and become the 
attacker. 
The Double Envelopment tactic was a difficult and dangerous tactic to 
attempt. 
Note that this is the only way for a Force without a General to become the 
attacker.
14.9. Reserve Cards 
There are four Reserve cards in the Battle Card Deck. These cards are wild 
cards that may be used as any of the other five types of cards (Frontal Assault, 
Flank Left, Flank Right, Probe, or Double Envelopment). Reserve cards can be 
used by the attacker or by the defender (to match a card). When the attacker 
plays a Reserve card, he must state which type of card it is representing and it 
takes on all characteristics of that card (e.g., a Reserve card used as a Double 
Envelopment will result in an automatic loss of initiative if matched).
14.10. How to Win a Land Battle 
14.10.1. The attacker wins if the defender cannot or will not match the BC. 
14.10.2. The defender wins if the attacker has no BCs remaining at the 
beginning of a Battle Round (even if the defender also has no BCs remaining). 
This is one reason the defender might wish not to roll for counterattacks!
14.11. Land Battle Casualties 
14.11.1. After the winner has been determined, the winning player rolls on 
the Attrition Table to determine the number of CUs that must be removed by 
both sides for Land Battle Casualties. 
14.11.2. The number of cards played by the player who played the most BCs 
determines the column to use on the table for both players. The last round in 
a Land Battle in which the defender could not match the attacker is counted 
as a full round. 
14.11.3. Players cross-reference the column with the die roll to determine 
the number of CUs eliminated from both sides. 
Note: Because the number of rounds played affects the number of casual-
ties, in some situations a defender may choose not to match the attacker’s card, 
and thus lose early. This is a legitimate tactic. 
The Land Battle lasted four rounds and a 5 is rolled for Land Battle Casu-
alties. The result is both players lose 1 CU. 
14.11.4. CALCULATING ROUNDS: Failed Withdrawal attempts (16.) do 
not count as a round. It is recommended that players keep the BCs they play in 
separate piles so that the number of rounds may be easily determined.
14.12. Retreat Losses after a Battle
In addition to Land Battle Casualties, the loser of the Land Battle will 
lose a number of CUs as determined by the Retreat Die. After each Land 
Battle, the winner, regardless of the amount of CUs lost due to Attrition, 
must roll the Retreat Die and consult his last played Battle Card to deter-
mine the loser’s additional CU losses. The smaller die is used if the loser’s 
Army began the Land Battle with four or less CUs. The larger die is used 
if the loser’s Army began the Land Battle with five or more CUs. Losses 
must be taken in CUs (they cannot be absorbed with Allies or militia – 
these are BCs).
The Battle has lasted four rounds, so first the players roll on the Attrition 
Table (using the Classic Die) in the fourth column to determine the losses, which 
are then applied to both Armies. A 3 is rolled, and each player removes 1 CU. 
The Loser’s Army was 5 CUs strong at its start, so a large Retreat Die is rolled:
The battle has been decided 
with a play of Flank Right.
It should be quite easy to de-
termine the Loser’s losses.
14.12.1. ELEPHANT LOSS-
ES: If there are Elephant CUs in 
the defeated Army, the first CU 
removed must always be an El-
ephant CU. All other losses may 
come from non-Elephant CUs. 
Note that a player could lose two 
Elephant CUs in a Land Battle if 
he lost the first with a die roll of 
6 in Land Battle Casualties and 
then lost the second due to Re-
treat Die roll.
14.12.2. ALL CARDS EX-
HAUSTED: When the attacker 
loses by running out of cards, the victorious defender consults his last played 
BC to determine the loser’s CU losses.
Roll Retreat Die.
Remove number of Loser’s Combat 
Units equal to number of 
Flank
Right

14.13. Political Consequences 
The loser must now remove a number of his own non-Walled City, non-
Tribe PCs from the map equal to half the number (round fractions down) of 
CUs he lost in the Land Battle (this includes Land Battle Casualties, Retreat 
Die roll losses, and CUs lost during the Retreat). The PCs to remove may 
come from anywhere on the map he wishes. 
If the loser of the Land Battle lost three CUs, then one PC has to be re-
moved. If the loser lost one CU, no PCs have to be removed. These PCs will 
most likely be chosen in the least critical areas. These areas would proba-
bly be receiving little attention and wealth from the controlling country and 
would be the first to rebel. 
14.14. Sue for Peace 
If, as a result of a Land Battle, the loser is unable to remove enough PCs to 
satisfy the Political Consequences of defeat, the player must instantly sue for 
peace, thereby losing the game (23.3).
15.1. Retreat Procedure 
After Land Battle Casualties and Retreat Die roll losses have been re-
moved, the loser of a Land Battle must Retreat his Force and suffer the Polit-
ical Consequences of the defeat. 
15.1.1. The loser of the Land Battle must Retreat to a space that is both 
friendly controlled (contains a friendly PC) and clear of enemy CUs, or to 
a space that contains more friendly CUs than the Retreating Force. 
15.1.2. If you have more than one space to which you may Retreat with 
your Force, you must pick the closest one (if two or more are at equal dis-
tance, the Retreating player may choose). 
15.1.3. RETREAT PATHS WHICH CAUSE FEWER CU LOSSES: A player 
may, at his option, choose a Retreat path or destination that is not the closest 
if it will cause fewer CU losses (see 15.3) than the shortest path and does not 
violate rule 15.2. 
15.1.4. You may not leave behind any CUs or Generals as you Retreat. 
15.1.5. After applying any Retreat Penalties (15.3) any friendly CUs en-
countered along the Retreat path (if they do not outnumber the Retreating 
CUs) are swept up in the Retreat and become part of the Retreating Force. 
15.1.6. The 10 CUs movement limit does not apply during Retreats; any size 
Force (commanded by a General or not) defeated in a Land Battle must Retreat. 
15.1.7. A Force can Retreat up to four spaces. 
15.1.8. A Retreat must end on a friendly controlled space that is clear of 
enemy CUs or a larger friendly Force.
15.2. Restrictions on Retreats 
a. The Retreat may not cross a Mountain Pass (either type) or Strait. 
b. The Retreat may not use Naval Movement. If the losing Army debarked 
in the Land Battle space that round, it is eliminated. If the Land Battle space 
contains a  Walled City friendly to the Retreating Army, it is assumed the 
Army debarked in the city and marched out. The Army may therefore Retreat 
into the Walled City. Any CUs which cannot fit inside the Walled City are 
eliminated. 
c. If the original attacker Retreats, he must always Retreat first into the 
space from which he entered the Land Battle.
d. If the original defender Retreats, he is prohibited from entering the 
space from which the attacker entered the Land Battle during the full length 
of his Retreat.
e. The Retreating Force may never reenter the Land Battle space during 
its Retreat.
15.3. Retreat Penalties 
15.3.1. A Retreating Force must lose one additional CU for each space it 
enters that contains an enemy PC or non-friendly Tribe. 
15.3.2. A Force Retreating into a space containing enemy CUs will lose an 
additional CU for each enemy CU in the space. 
15.3.3. A Retreating Force may not remain in a space with enemy CUs. 
15.3.4. Enemy Generals without CUs have no effect on Retreats and can-
not block Retreat paths (they are displaced if an enemy Retreating Force 
enters the space). 
15.3.5. A Force that cannot Retreat, has no place to Retreat, or must Re-
treat more than four spaces is eliminated. 
Retreats

15.4. Retreats into Walled Cities 
A Retreating Force is never allowed to Retreat into a besieged Walled City 
except the Force (if any) that sorties from the city (20.6). A Retreating Force 
may Retreat into a friendly controlled non-besieged city if the Land Battle oc-
curred in the Walled City space. If there are more CUs in the Retreating Force 
than the city can hold, then the Retreating Force may split up into two Forces; 
one into the city and the other into a legal Retreat space. The commanding 
General and subordinates may accompany either Force or be split up in any 
fashion (as long as 18.1 is not violated). This is the only way a Retreating 
Force may be split up.
16.1. In General 
16.1.1. Withdrawals are a way for the current attacker (not necessarily the 
original attacker) to break off from a Land Battle. To Withdraw, the attacker 
must forfeit his chance to play a BC and roll less than or equal to his com-
manding General’s Battle Rating (only Armies can attempt to withdraw). 
16.1.2. The defender can cancel the Withdrawal by rolling less than or equal 
to his commanding General’s Battle Rating (the defender is not required to roll). 
16.1.3. If the attacker’s Withdrawal die roll is unsuccessful, or if the de-
fender canceled the Withdrawal, the defender immediately decides whether 
to take the initiative and become the attacker, or to remain the defender.
16.1.4. There is no limit to the number of times you may attempt to With-
draw in a single Land Battle.
16.2. A Successful Withdrawal 
16.2.1. A successful Withdrawal ends the Land Battle and Forces the With-
drawing player to move his entire Army (all CUs) to an adjacent space (Excep-
tion: units that sortie from a besieged Walled City may Withdraw back into it). 
16.2.2. Land Battle Casualties are resolved normally, but the Retreat Die 
roll is not used.
16.2.3. There are no Political Consequences (14.13), if a player successful-
ly Withdraws from Land Battle.
16.3. Restrictions on Withdrawals 
a. A Withdrawing Army may not split up. 
b. An Army may not Withdraw across a Mountain Pass (either type), Strait, 
or by Naval Movement. 
c. You may not Withdraw into a space containing an enemy PC or enemy CU. 
d. You may not Withdraw into the space from which the enemy Army 
entered the Land Battle space. If the original attacker Withdraws, then he 
must Withdraw to the space from which he advanced (even if it contains 
enemy PC). 
e. You may not Withdraw into a space containing a non-friendly Tribe.
Withdrawals
Elephants
The Carthaginians used elephants as a shock weapon in Land Battles. 
The sight of elephants charging was often enough to make many troops break and run. 
Some Roman Generals learned how to defend against elephants 
and even turn them against their owners.

17.1. Receiving Elephants 
There are four Carthaginian counters (a total of four CUs) that depict Ele-
phants. Depending on the scenario, some begin the game on the map and the 
others may arrive in Carthago with the play of African Reinforcements (Event 
#12). No more than four Elephant counters may be in play at any one time.
 
17.2. Properties 
CUs with Elephants have all the same properties as regular CUs (they 
may use Naval Movement) except that they provide a special attack capability 
to the Carthaginian player (17.3). When removing CUs lost because of Land 
Battle Casualties (14.11) or Attrition (21.), the Carthaginian player may pick 
any CUs he wishes, unless dictated to remove an Elephant CU by an 
 re-
sult on the Attrition Table. When removing CUs due to Retreat, the first CU 
selected must be an Elephant CU (14.12.1). 
17.3. Elephants in Combat 
CUs with Elephants give the Carthaginian player an opportunity to sub-
tract BCs from the Roman at the start of a Land Battle. If the Carthaginian 
player has CUs with Elephants present in a Land Battle, he may declare an 
Elephant Charge before the Carthaginian player looks at his BCs. 
17.3.1. The Elephant Charge is successful if the Carthaginian player makes 
a die roll greater than the Battle Rating of the Roman General in command 
of the opposing Army. 
17.3.2. If the die roll is less than or equal to the Roman General’s Battle 
Rating, the Elephants have no effect (although the CUs can still be used in 
the Land Battle). 
17.3.3. If there is no Roman General present, the Elephant Charge is un-
successful on a die roll of 1 (or less).
17.4. Successful Elephant Charges 
If the charge is successful, the Roman Battle Card hand is reduced by the 
number of Elephant CUs involved in the Charge.
17.5. Rampaging Elephants 
If a 1 is rolled, then the Carthaginian hand size is immediately reduced 
by one BC (no matter how many Elephant CUs were involved in the charge). 
Rampaging Elephants would not be as detrimental to the Carthaginian Army, 
which was more familiar with Elephants.
18.1. Consular Armies 
A  Roman Army containing one or both Consuls is called a  Consular 
Army. The Roman player may never take any voluntary action that would 
leave a Consul or a Consular Army with fewer than five CUs. This means 
that a Consular Army may not exit a space and leave any CUs behind unless 
it brings at least five CUs with it. It also means that once both Consuls are 
together, they may not split up until the Consular Army contains at least 10 
CUs. There is no penalty if a Consular Army falls below five CUs due to At-
trition, Land Battle, or Retreat (e.g., the Army may still move, attack, conduct 
sieges, etc.); and if it does, it may not drop off or leave behind CUs until it 
contains more than five CUs.
18.2. Change of Command Die Roll 
18.2.1. If both Consuls are in the same Consular Army, the Roman player 
may choose either one to move (command) the Army; the other becomes 
a subordinate. 
18.2.2. If this Army containing both Consuls enters Battle as the attacker, 
the Carthaginian player may make a Change of Command Die Roll to see if 
the acting commander changes. 
18.2.3. If a Carthaginian Army attacks this Army, the Carthaginian player 
must make a Change of Command Die Roll. 
18.2.4. PROCEDURE: Roll a die. If the die roll is 1-3, there is no change; if 
the die roll is 4-6, the commander and subordinate Consuls exchange positions. 
Consuls And Consular Armies
Historically, the two Roman Consuls had no authority over each other. 
Each was given command of approximately equal forces and this caused considerable coordination 
problems when they needed to combine. It was not uncommon for Consuls to share command 
of the combined Army by allowing one to command one day and the other the next day.

The Consuls Marcellus and Varro are stacked together. The Roman player 
designates Marcellus as the commander and activates the Army. The Army 
moves to give Battle. Before BCs are dealt, the Carthaginian player chooses to 
roll a Change of Command Die Roll and rolls a 5. This results in the Consuls 
exchanging positions, and so Varro commands the Army for the Land Battle.
18.3. Proconsuls and Consuls 
A  Consul outranks a  Proconsul and whenever the Proconsul ends its 
move with a Consul he becomes a subordinate. However, an Army led by 
a Proconsul is allowed to be larger than the Consular Armies and may pass 
through a Consular Army containing five or more CUs without restrictions. 
If an Army led by a Proconsul enters a space containing a Consular Army 
with fewer than five CUs, it must either stop and end its movement or drop 
off enough CUs so the Consular Army has five CUs. A Proconsul that starts 
the turn stacked with a Consular Army may be activated and sent off with up 
to 10 CUs or be left behind with any number of CUs (as long as rule 18.1 is 
not violated).
Political Control
19.1. Political Control 
19.1.1. Players gain control of a space and control of a Province through 
placement of PCs. A player controls a space if he has a PC in it. 
19.1.2. A player controls a Province if he controls the majority of the spac-
es in that Province (controlling more PCs than the opponent in a Province is 
not by itself sufficient for Political Control). 
EXAMPLE: A player would need to control four spaces in Libya in order 
to control the Province.
19.1.3. A space containing a PC remains under the control of the owning 
player even if an enemy General or CUs are also present.
19.1.4. Political control of a province is marked by placing a PC marker in 
the corresponding space of the Provincial Display.
19.2. Placing and Converting PC Markers 
Strategy Cards can be played to place PCs on the map. The number of 
PCs that can be placed is equal to the OPs number. 
19.2.1. You can place PCs in any space that does not contain a PC or an 
enemy CU. 
19.2.2. You can also “convert” a PC in a space containing an enemy PC 
(by flipping it over) if you have a CU in that space.
19.3. Characteristics of PC Markers 
a. PCs do not stop or slow movement of units. 
b. Interception attempts into a space containing an enemy PC and no 
friendly CUs are more difficult (12.4). 
c. You may not Avoid Land Battle into a space containing an enemy PC (13.2) 
d. A Retreat must end in a space containing a friendly PC without enemy CUs 
(15.1), or into a space with more friendly CUs than the retreating force (15.1). 
e. An Army that Retreats through an enemy PC must remove an addition-
al CU (15.3). 
f. An Army may not Withdraw from a Land Battle into a space that con-
tains an enemy PC (16.3). 
g. CUs on enemy PCs at the end of the turn suffer Winter Attrition (21.1).
19.4. Removing Isolated PC Markers 
During the Political Isolation Removal Phase, each player (starting with 
Rome in the Hannibal scenario and Carthage in the Hamilcar scenario) must 
remove all his non-Walled, non-Tribe PCs that are isolated. 
19.4.1. A PC marker is isolated if it cannot trace a path to: a friendly CU, 
or a friendly controlled Tribe, or a friendly controlled Port, or a friendly con-
trolled Walled City (besieged or not). 
19.4.2. The path cannot: cross a  Mountain Pass (either type), or enter 
a space containing an enemy PC marker or a neutral Tribe, unless a friendly 
CU is also in the space, or a space with enemy CUs, unless a friendly PC is 
also in the space.
19.4.3. The path may lead through one or more vacant spaces.
EXAMPLE: Roman PCs A and B are iso-
lated because they cannot trace a path to 
D across a Mountain Pass or into a space 
containing an enemy PC or a neutral Tribe. 
The Roman PC in C is not isolated because 
it can trace a path to the CU in E. All Car-
thaginian PCs can trace a path to a friendly 
controlled Port. The Roman CU has no ef-
fect on the Carthaginian PC in E.

Sieges And Subjugation
Walled Cities and Tribes are PCs that are difficult to convert. The only 
way to convert a Walled City is to conduct a successful Siege against it or to 
play an Event card that affects it. The only way to convert (remove) a Tribe is 
to Subjugate it. 
20.1. Siege and Subjugation Procedure 
20.1.1. A siege or subjugation is a multi-turn process wherein an Army at-
tempts to accumulate 3 Siege Points against the Walled City or Tribe. Record 
accumulated siege points with the Siege/Subjugation markers. 
20.1.2. Any activated General that ends his move in an 
enemy Walled City or Tribe space containing at least three 
friendly CUs (already there or brought along) and has not 
battled may conduct one siege or subjugation attempt (one 
die roll) against that space. 
20.1.3. A siege point is gained when an activated Army 
rolls the Siege Die and matches the result shown below.
The Priority Effects are quite rare. In fact, one 
can only get them when besieging Rome or Syr-
acusae OR if Marcellus is involved. The two main 
effects are getting the Siege Point or losing a CU 
and these are straightforward. The effects are cu-
mulative, so 
 results in a loss of CU and gain 
of a Siege Point. 
Priority 
Effects 
take precedence, so 
if the besieged city 
has a 
 and the re-
sult is 
 , then it is translated into 
If Marcellus besieges with a Campaign Card 
and rolls a Red dice, then the result of 
 trans-
lates into 
If the Carthaginians use their Siege Train, any 
Special Effects are cancelled, so a roll of 
 is 
treated as 
20.1.4. A non-activated Force on top of a Walled City or Tribe is consid-
ered maintaining the siege but may not make a siege or subjugation die roll. 
20.1.5. No Walled City or Tribe may be subjected to more than one siege 
or subjugation attempt per Strategy Card played (e.g., a Major Campaign may 
not be used to direct three siege attempts against the same city). Exception: 
Special Ability of Scipio Africanus.
20.2. Subordinates and Sieges/Subjugation 
Subordinates may detach with three CUs from a besieging Army and make 
a siege attempt without activating the commanding General by simply an-
nouncing that the subordinate is conducting the siege or subjugation. A subor-
dinate conducting a siege or subjugation is considered temporarily in command 
and may use his special ability. If this occurs during the play of a Campaign 
Event, only three CUs (or five CUs for a Consul) plus the activated subordinate 
are considered to have been moved. The remaining units and Generals in the 
space are available for further Operations on the Campaign Event.
Siege Die color
required
Number of CUs Allowed 
Inside the City
Siege Point
If besieging with Campaign Card 
and White Siege die – change
the die to Red. If besieging with
Campaign Card and Red Siege die
– may use 
 Special Siege Effect.
M. Claudius
Marcellus
Place the Siege Train marker
with any Carthaginian General.
If the Siege Train is present at the Siege,
it cancels the 
 special effect.
If the besieged city has no 
– use Red Siege Dice instead of White.
Siege Train

20.3. Siege Status 
A Walled City is not considered Besieged until it is marked with one or 
more siege points, regardless of the number of siege attempts that have been 
made against it or the number of enemy CUs in the same space.
20.4. Restrictions on Besieged Forces 
A besieged city may not receive reinforcements and a besieged General 
may not raise troops (8.2). A besieged Army or General may not leave the 
city via Naval Movement, nor may an Army or General disembark directly 
into a besieged city (it may land outside the city walls). A besieged Army may 
sortie and initiate a Land Battle against the besieging Army. If it does, the 
Land Battle and BC bonuses are resolved normally.
20.5. Lifting a Siege or Ending Subjugation 
A siege is lifted or subjugation ended instantly when there are no longer 
any enemy CUs in the space containing the Walled City or Tribe. If this 
happens, remove any accumulated siege or subjugation points. Reducing 
the besieging Army to below three CUs does not lift the siege or end sub-
jugation.
20.6. Relief Armies and Besieged Forces 
If you send an Army to attack an enemy Army that is besieging one of 
your Walled Cities, you may count the CUs inside the Walled City during the 
Land Battle. When besieged CUs are added to an attack or a besieged Army 
attacks on its own, it is called a “sortie.” Land Battle losses can come from 
either the relief Army or the CUs that sortie, at the controlling player’s option. 
If there is a General inside the city when a sortie occurs and that General 
is the same rank as the commanding General of the relief Army, the player 
may choose which General is considered in command for the Land Battle. 
Otherwise the commander with the higher rank is considered in command 
for the Land Battle. If no sortie occurs, the General inside the city is not used 
in the Land Battle. Only the CUs and Generals that sortie may Retreat back 
into the Walled City. 
20.7. Completing a Siege or Subjugation 
When you accumulate three siege points, flip the Walled City marker to 
your color and remove the siege points. Any enemy CUs inside the Walled 
City are eliminated, and any Generals inside are displaced.
When you accumulate three siege points against a Tribe, remove the Tribe 
marker and replace it with a friendly PC. Once a Tribe has been subjugated, 
it cannot reenter play. If your opponent regains control of the space, he may 
only place a friendly PC there. 
20.8. Tribes Friendly to Carthage 
Depending on the scenario, some Tribes begin the game friendly to Car-
thage. The Carthaginian player may consider these Tribes as friendly PCs in 
all respects (including Province control, a legal Retreat space, and for iso-
lating Roman PCs). These Tribe markers serve as a space to which other 
Carthaginian PCs may trace in order to prevent Political Isolation (19.4), and 
provide the Carthaginian player with an extra BC if a Land Battle (with or 
without a Carthaginian General) occurs in the Tribe’s space.
Attrition
21.1. When Attrition Occurs
21.1.1. WINTER ATTRITION: During the Winter Attrition Phase, all CUs 
(with or without Generals) in spaces containing an enemy PC or a non-friend-
ly Tribe suffer Attrition. DESIGN NOTE: Players conducting sieges against 
a city should be aware that their CUs are in a space with an enemy PC and 
will suffer Winter Attrition if still there at the end of the turn. 
21.1.2. MOUNTAIN PASS ATTRITION: Any time an Army crosses 
a Mountain Pass (either type), that Army suffers Attrition. See the Attrition 
Table for die roll modifiers. 
21.1.3. EVENTS: When triggered by an Event Card (e.g., Hostile Tribe, Mer-
cenaries Desert, Epidemic, Storms at Sea, and Pestilence).
21.2. Procedure 
The owning player makes a die roll for each applicable occurrence and 
consults the Attrition Table. The owning player cross-references the size of his 
Force in the space with the die roll to determine the number of CUs elimi-
nated. Generals are never affected by Attrition (even if Attrition eliminates the 
last CU accompanying that General).
21.3. Hostile Tribes 
If attacked by Hostile Tribes (Events #7, #8), the size of your Army does 
not matter. Use the column on the Attrition Table marked “Hostile Tribes.”

Victory Check Phase
Sudden Victory
22.1. Procedure 
During the Victory Check Phase, players count the number of politically 
significant Provinces they control. All are politically significant except Gallia 
Transalpina, Massilia, Liguria, Baleares, and Mauretania (optional province). 
You earn one Political Point for each politically significant Province that you 
control. There are 18 possible Political Points. 
22.2. Year End Political Consequences 
After calculating Political Points, the totals are compared. If one side has 
fewer points than the other, then the player in the minority must remove 
a number of his own non-Walled, non-Tribe PCs from the map equal to the 
difference in Political Points.
The Roman player has nine Political Points, and the Carthaginian player 
has seven, therefore the Carthaginian player must remove two of his PCs from 
the map. 
22.3. Sue for Peace 
If a player does not have enough PCs to remove due to Political Conse-
quences, his country sues for peace, immediately losing the game. 
22.4. End of Game 
During the Victory Check phase of the last turn, the player whose Political 
Point total is greater wins. In the Event of a tie, the winner depends on the 
scenario. If there is a tie in the Hannibal scenario, the Carthaginian player 
wins. If there is a tie in the Hamilcar scenario, the Roman player wins.
Each player can win a Sudden Death Victory that ends the game immediately. 
23.1. The Roman player wins a Sudden Death Victory if he controls Carthago. 
23.2.1. The Carthaginian player wins a Sudden Death Victory if he controls Roma. 
23.2.2. The Carthaginian player wins a Sudden Death Victory if he controls all Provinces in Italia except Latium during a Victory Check phase (23.). 
23.3. Either player wins a Sudden Death Victory if his opponent sues for peace (14.14 or 22.3).

Special Abilities
Strategy Card Notes
24.1. Hannibal Scenario Generals
Hanno: Hanno may not leave Africa, but may sail from one African Port 
to another. To use his special ability, Hanno must have CUs and must not 
have engaged in a land battle that turn. Hanno may conduct one or more 
Overruns and still be able to use his special ability in his final space. 
Q. Fabius Maximus: Fabius may not leave Italia, but may sail from one 
Italian Port to another. 
If there is not at least one stack of five CUs in Italia, Fabius is immediately 
placed with any friendly CUs in Italia (he does not have to placed with the 
largest stack). If there are no CUs in Italia, Fabius is immediately placed in 
Roma (even if it is besieged). 
M. Claudius Marcellus: His ability does not apply to subjugation. 
P.C. Scipio Africanus: His ability does not apply to subjugation.
C. Claudius Nero: Nero can move up to six spaces during Campaign 
Events. Nero can use his special ability with Naval Movement allowing his 
Army to move three spaces before or after Naval Movement (split in any fash-
ion). Alternatively, Nero can move twice by sea in the same turn, using three 
movement points for each move. 
C. Flaminius: His special ability does not apply to preventing a With-
drawal. 
T. Sempronius Longus: His special ability does not apply to preventing 
a Withdrawal. 
A. Paullus: His special ability does not apply to preventing a Withdrawal.
5 • Native Guide: Only Generals with Strategy Ratings of 1 or 2 may use 
this Event. This modifier is cumulative with other modifiers for the mountains. 
So a move across a non-Alps pass would have a -5 net modifier. If the Army 
crosses two separate Mountain Passes, the modifier may be used for both.
7-8 • Hostile Tribes: This card may be played against a stationary Force 
or a Force that enters the appropriate space for any reason (via Movement, 
Avoid Land Battle, Retreat, or Interception).
9B • Philip V of Macedon makes peace with Rome: Start the game with 
this card put aside. Add it to the discard deck after the #9A is played as an 
Event. After card #9B is played as an event, the Carthaginian player loses 
a Strategy Card (drawn randomly from his hand) and Philip is considered 
to have declared peace. The modifier is lost and that Event card is removed 
from the Strategy Deck. Remove the PC from the appropriate space on the 
Carthaginian Naval Movement Modifiers chart on the board.
20 • Spy in Enemy Camp: The revealed enemy BCs must be displayed face-
up and remain open to view throughout the Land Battle. If Ally Deserts (card 
#59) is played in combination with the Spy in Enemy Camp Event, the player 
may select one of the visible BCs or randomly draw one of the unrevealed BCs.
Each General has a special ability, as indicated on his General Card. A General’s special ability can 
only be used when he is a commanding General. Most special abilities are self-explanatory, 
but the following Generals require further clarifications:
This is a list of explanatory notes on how some of the Strategy Cards can or cannot be used.

28 • Hannibal Charms Italy: Hannibal can remove the PC from the space 
he begins, as long as he spends one of his movement points. This benefit 
may be used in spaces where Hannibal overruns Roman CUs or where the 
Roman Army Avoids Battle. 
30 • Carthaginian Siege Train: The Siege Train has all the characteris-
tics of a Carthaginian CU except it has no effect in a normal Land Battle. 
The Siege Train may not cross an Alps Mountain Pass or use Naval Move-
ment. If caught alone in a space by enemy CUs or forced to Retreat, it is 
removed from play. The Carthaginian player may play this Event as many 
times as he likes, but he may only ever have one Siege Train in a given Army 
at a time. This unit does not take up space in the Army, so a Carthaginian 
Army can move with the Siege Train plus ten CUs. If the Event is played 
when all 4 Siege Trains are already in play, then a Siege Train can be moved 
to a different Army. 
32 • Numidian Allies Desert: If the player had control of both Numidia 
Maior and Minor, he would lose all four BC bonuses. 
41 • Bad Weather: Can be played even if no combat occurs. If played 
during a Naval Movement, the naval portion of the move is canceled. The 
embarking Army must return to its Port of embarkation and remain there for 
the remainder of the round. This card can only be played against Movement, 
not against Interception, Retreats, Avoid Land Battle, etc. The card must be 
played before the player conducts any Naval Movement die rolls or Mountain 
Pass Attrition. If played against an Army crossing a Mountain Pass (either 
type) or Strait, the target Army may not cross the Mountain Pass (either type) 
or Strait if it needs to use its 3rd or 4th movement point to do so.
BAD WEATHER AND CAMPAIGN CARDS: If played during an oppo-
nent’s Campaign Event, it can be used to truncate the move of only one Army 
and must be declared before another Army moves as part of that Campaign. 
Also, the Event affects the movement of the General and not the CUs (i.e., if 
the CUs are moved by two different Generals, they can still be moved a total 
of four spaces). 
44-48 • Allied Auxiliaries: These CUs must be placed with a General in 
Italia and cannot be placed in Rome if there is no General there.
51-52 • Pestilence and Epidemic: The player playing the card chooses 
which Army rolls for attrition.
55 • Messenger Intercepted: Check the optional rules for a variant use 
of this card. 
57 • Hanno Counsels Carthage: Carthaginian reinforcements may be 
placed outside of Africa. Normal reinforcement rules pertain. The card af-
fects movement.
58 • Cato Counsels Rome: Roman reinforcements are allowed to be 
placed with an existing Army in Africa. Normal reinforcement rules pertain. 
The card affects movement.
59 • Ally Deserts: This card can be played before any BCs have been 
played (both players may observe which card is selected), or held in the hand 
to be played in any round of the Land Battle. 
60 • Storms at Sea: If all CUs die, the General returns to the port of em-
barkation.
63 • Forced March 3 
Hannibal scenarios: A player may use the Forced March 3 card to make 
a Naval Movement in addition to moving that Force three spaces on land. 
This card can be used to move a General by sea twice, each Naval Movement 
costing the Army three movement spaces. That General could then pick up 
and drop off CUs along the way. 
Hamilcar scenario: A player may use the Forced March 3 card to move 
a total of 6 spaces, only 3 of which may be used for Naval Movement (!). Pul-
cher may still only move up to 4 spaces using Naval Movement, he can use 
the remainder of the Move on land.
64 • Truce: No Interceptions are allowed during a Truce. No siege at-
tempts are allowed either, but players may keep their Armies outside the 
city walls to retain their accumulated siege points (maintaining the siege). 
A Truce has no effect on subjugation of neutral Tribes. 
No matter how the Truce card is played (whether for the Truce event or 
only for OPs) or discarded, the Strategy Card deck is reshuffled at the end of 
the turn (the reshuffling does not break the Truce). 
Naval Movement is not affected by the player holding Naval Supremacy 
during a Truce; however, Naval Movement can still be affected by Storms at 
Sea (Event #60). 
If you have friendly CUs on enemy PCs when a Truce starts, your CUs 
may remain there. Enemy PCs underneath your CUs may not be converted 
and CUs on top of enemy PCs at the end of the turn still suffer Attrition. 
CARDS WHICH DO NOT BREAK THE TRUCE: Counter Event cards 
(Storms at Sea, Bad Weather, etc.) do not end a Truce, nor is a Truce broken 
when an Event is played that does not occur (e.g. Allied Auxiliaries when 
there are no Generals in Italia to take the CUs). Events that move an Army 
also do not break the Truce. 
Truce in Hamilcar scenario: The Truce card is not included in the scenar-
io, however in case players want to experiment and add it to the deck, the 
remaining Truce-breaking Event cards have been marked accordingly.
66 & 83 • Imperium cards
Hannibal scenarios: One Army with up to five CUs may use Naval Move-
ment when activated with this card. The card is not a Campaign Card, how-
ever, so Nero may not use his special ability.
Hamilcar scenario: Both activated Generals may use Naval Movement as 
per the Scenario rules.
76 • Triumph: May not be used to remove Carthaginian PCs.
77 • Elephant Fright: Check the optional rules for a variant use of this 
card.
78 • Spoils of War: Only non-Walled enemy PCs not stacked with enemy 
CUs may be removed.
79 • Punic Faith: The cancelled event OPs are not counted towards the 
War Chest.

80 • Dictator: The Dictator outranks 
all other Roman Generals. The Dictator 
may not be kept as the Proconsul. He is 
removed from the map at the end of the 
turn. The Dictator is not a Consul and his 
Army does not have the same minimum 
size restrictions as a Consular Army. The Dictator can pick up CUs from 
Consular Armies even if that drops the Consular Army below five CUs. He 
outranks all Consuls and will always command an Army in a Land Battle 
(no Change of Command die rolls). The maximum size Army that the Dic-
tator may move is still ten CUs. Indicate the Dictator by placing the Dictator 
marker on his card. 
84 • Good Omen: You may see the die roll before playing the card.
86 • Surprise Raids: The removed PCs must both be adjacent to the same 
space containing your CU(s). Only non-Walled enemy PCs not stacked with 
enemy CUs may be removed.
88 • Ambush: Increasing your General’s Battle Rating means you are also 
getting another Battle Card (or Naval Tactic card in Hamilcar scenario).
90 • Flamen Martialis: 2 PC removal is a one time action, only required 
for the first activation of the affected General.
93 • Siege Engineers: This event is active throughout the entire Siege 
unless the Siege is not maintained. Place a Siege Train marker as a reminder.
94 • Hiero Allies with Rome: It is of course enough for the Roman Army 
to be in the Syracusae space, outside the Walls. Any Carthaginian units inside 
are eliminated.
95 • Socii Navales: You may place two Ready Warships and then use the 
OPs for a one-space Naval Movement. Use of the OPs is not mandatory.
101 • Cruel Sea: For each Ship sunk due to the Event, remove 1 CU and 
1 Supply Train from the transported Army.
103 • Naval Training Program: The OPs can be split freely between Ship-
building (3 OPs per Warship) and Ship Refit (1 OP to Refit a Spent Warship)
107 • Corvus: Can be played anytime during the Player’s Round in the 
Naval Battle.
109 • Raid on Port and 110 • Mare Nostrum: This includes Walled Cities.
REINFORCEMENT CARDS AND BESIEGED WALLED CITIES: All 
Events that bring reinforcements onto the map (Allied Auxiliaries, etc) 
are under the same restriction as reinforcements in regards to besieged 
Walled Cities.
Optional Rules
26.1. Additional Strategy Cards (Hannibal Scenarios)
If you want to enrich the game experience, add cards no. 65-74 to the 
Strategy Card deck. If you want even more flavour, also add cards cards no. 
75-91 to the Strategy Card deck. Check the Optional Card’s Distribution 
chart in the Scenario book for more details.
It can be agreed between players that the above additional cards (those 
which don’t have an elephant icon in the left bottom corner) are ‘Remove 
After Play’ cards and get removed when played for an Event.
26.1.1. Messenger Intercepted: Variant
When you play this card (#55) as an Event and take one of your oppo-
nent’s cards, your opponent has the option to require you to play another 
card immediately.
26.1.2. Elephant Fright: Variant
Card #77 may be used to replace card #42. This is how the card was sup-
posed to be in the never published Hannibal II.
26.2. Additional Generals (Hannibal scenarios)
26.2.1. Bomilcar is a Carthaginian General arriving as a reinforcement in 
Turn 4. Bomilcar arrives without any troops and may be placed anywhere on 
the map with a Carthaginian CU.
26.2.2. To add more historical flavour, observe the following (thanks to 
Andy Daglish): 
a) Killed in Action: Permanently eliminate from the game any Consuls or 
Proconsuls if their entire army has been eliminated in battle.
In case you’d like to add some realism to the game or try some optional rules, here is a collection 
for your consideration. These may also be used to even out differences in play skill, with the more 
advanced or skilled player playing with a handicap.
DICTATOR
DICTATOR
Dictator marker

b) Consular Election: 
No Consul may be drawn in consecutive Reinforcement phases, except 
Fabius.
c) The Fates:
	
l Gracchus is permanently removed from the consular pool 
at the start of turn 5.
	
l P. Scipio is permanently removed from the consular pool 
at the start of turn 6.
	
l Marcellus is permanently removed from the consular pool 
at the start of turn 7.
	
l Flaccus is permanently removed from the consular pool 
at the start of turn 8.
	
l Fabius is permanently removed from the consular pool 
at the start of turn 9.
26.3. Mauretania (Hannibal scenarios)
Place neutral Tribe markers in the appropriate spaces.
Mauretania is a hostile province. 
Mauretania is a separate region. 
Mauretania is not a Politically Significant Province.
26.3.1 Pillars of Hercules
Crossing cost of Gades - Abyla strait is only 1 movement point if Gades 
is friendly.
26.3.2 Port of Siga
Only up to 5 CUs may sea-move in or out.
26.4. Flexible PC Placement and Removal 
An Army containing 3 or more CUs may remove an enemy PC marker 
and place a friendly PC marker during the course of movement. It costs an 
Army 1 additional movement point to remove an enemy PC marker and 1 
additional movement point to place a friendly PC marker. Thus to convert an 
enemy PC marker into a friendly PC marker costs 2 additional MPs.
26.5. Alternative Reinforcements (Hannibal scenarios)
26.5.1. Carthaginian Reinforcements
The Carthaginian player receives up to 4 CUs per turn—one for each of 
the four Carthaginian Walled Cities (except Saguntum) that start the game 
Carthaginian controlled and are still under his control (a Walled City un-
der siege still generates a Reinforcement). The Reinforcement CUs may be 
placed as follows:
l One must be placed in Carthago or with any General in Africa.
l Two must be placed in Carthago Nova or with any General in Iberia.
l One may be placed with any Carthaginian General.
26.5.2. Roman Reinforcements
The Roman player receives up to 5 CUs per turn—one for each of the 
five Roman Walled Cities in Italia that start the game Roman controlled 
and are still under his control (a Walled City under siege still generates 
a Reinforcement). The Reinforcement CUs may be placed in any Roman 
controlled, unbesieged, Walled City in Italia, or with any Roman General in 
Italia. The CUs may all be placed in one space or split up in any fashion. 
Up to two CUs (maximum) may be placed with any Roman General out-
side of Italia.
26.6. Alternate Siege Rules (Charles’ Variant)
26.6.1. All cities (except Rome, Carthage, Syracuse, Carthago Nova, and 
Gades) fall once TWO (not three) Siege Points are accumulated by the be-
sieging Force.
26.6.2. Roll the White Siege die if:
– 1 or more unbesieged enemy CUs are located in a space adjacent to the 
besieged city and/or
– 1 or more enemy CUs are located within the city.
26.6.3. Once a  siege is successfully completed, the victorious besieger 
may choose to either:
– LOOT THE FALLEN CITY: Add 2 CUs to the force which conquered 
the city.
– SHOW CLEMENCY: The 2 closest enemy PCs not occupied by enemy 
CUs (distance calculated in movement points) are flipped. If several 
PCs are equally close, the conqueror of the city may choose which PCs 
are flipped.
26.7. Vanilla Hannibal
In order to play a ‘vanilla’ Hannibal as it was published in two earlier 
editions, please adopt the following:
– Keep Mauretania out of play.
– Remove Bomilcar, Gracchus, Livius, Flaccus, Valerius and Crassus Gen-
erals from the game.

Note from the Publisher
PHALANX is a dream come true company by three individuals. 
Created in 2009, awarded with Polish Game of the Year Title 
and Golden Geek Award Nomination, we are now proud to deliver you a new edition of one of our 
most beloved games. It is an honour for us. 
Thank you for your continuous support!
Jaro, Waldek, and Michal 
You can reach us at:
 www.facebook.com/games.phalanx
 twitter.com/PhalanxGames
 www.instagram.com/phalanxgames
 boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/227460
Sources
27.1. Primary sources
Livy
Polybius
Appian
27.2. Secondary sources
Bagnall, Nigel (1990). The Punic Wars. ISBN 0-312-34214-4.
Goldsworthy, Adrian (2003). The Fall of Carthage: The Punic Wars 265-
146BC. ISBN 978-0304366422.
Lazenby, John Francis (1978). Hannibal’s War. ISBN 978-0-8061-3004-0.
Lazenby, John Francis (1996). The First Punic War. ISBN 978-0804726740.
Lancel, Serge (1995). Hannibal (in French).
Polybius, Histories, Evelyn S. Shuckburgh (translator); London, New York. 
Macmillan (1889); Reprint Bloomington (1962).
Palmer, Robert E. A. (1997). Rome and Carthage at Peace. Stuttgart.
Barceló, Pedro A. (1988). Karthago und die iberische Halbinsel vor den 
Barkiden: Studien zur karthagischen Präsenz im westlichen Mittelmeerraum 
von der Gründung von Ebusus bis zum Übergang Hamilkars nach Hispanien 
(in German). Bonn. ISBN 3-7749-2354-X.
Ameling, Walter (1993). Karthago: Studien zu Militär, Staat und Ge-
sellschaft (in German). Munich. ISBN 3-406-37490-5.
Zlattner, Max (1997). Hannibals Geheimdienst im Zweiten Punischen 
Krieg (in German). Konstanz. ISBN 3-87940-546-8.
Mahaney, W.C, 2008. “Hannibal’s Odyssey, Environmental Background to 
the Alpine Invasion of Italia,” Gorgias Press, Piscataway, N.J, 221 pp.
Dodge, Theodore Ayrault (1891). Hannibal. Reprinted by Da Capo Press, 
Cambridge, Mass. ISBN 0-306-81362-9

PHALANX CO. LTD
Craven House,
40-44 Uxbridge Road, 
London, W5 2BS
United Kingdom
w w w . p h a l a n x g a m e s . c o . u k
Miniatures storage guide.