A Strategy Game for 3-5 clever merchants ages 12 and up by Andreas Steding
Game Overview 
The German Hanseatic League [Latin: Hansa Teutonica] is the name 
for a medieval association of merchants in northern Germany. Cities 
that joined the Hanseatic League of Merchants and Cities were known 
as Hanseatic cities.
This association was loosely organized and never depended on any 
contracts. Therefore, it’s difﬁcult to determine exactly all of the 
 cities that belonged to the Hanseatic League, especially since it’s also 
 important to know when they belonged. Overall, at any one time, there 
were approximately 200 locations that directly or indirectly belonged 
to the Hanseatic League of Cities.
You are trying to increase your reputation as merchants in 
the Hanseatic era. There are various methods you can use to 
accomplish this. Establishing trading posts in as many cities 
as possible is one tactic, or building a network of linked 
cities with tradesmen. Improving your merchant abilities 
can be equally effective as well. 
During your turn, you perform 2-5 actions. You can move 
your traders and merchants on the game map or use them 
to displace opposing tradesmen. If you manage to occupy 
all of the connections between 2 cities, you can set up 
a trade route and establish a trading post. In some cities, 
instead of establishing a trading post, you may choose to 
develop one of your abilities. This allows you to perform 
more powerful actions as the game progresses.
In the end, the player who has scored the most prestige 
points wins.
3 Game Boards
The Hanseatic League Game Board 
(front 4-5 players, 
back 3 players)
The Eastern Hanseatic League 
Game Board 
(3-5 players)
Brittania Game Board 
(front 4-5 players, 
back 3 players)
135 Traders 
(wooden cubes, 
27 per player color)
5 Writing Desks – Player Boards 
(in 5 player colors)
9 Mission cards
Components
6 Emperor‘s Favour tiles
15 Bonus Markers – 3 in gold (+2 blank Bonus Markers)
Move 
3 Tradesmen
+4 Actions
3x 
Exchange
Trading Posts
+3 Actions
4x 
Additional
Trading Post
Develop 1 Ability
For experienced merchants:
additional material for 
The Hanseatic League
20 Merchants 
(wooden disks, 
4 per player color)
1 black wooden cube
(for the Completed 
Cities track)
1 Scorepad

The Gameboard
The game board shows cities that are part of the Hanseatic League, 
each with 1 to 4 trading posts (square 
 or round 
 in 4 colors). 
Connecting the cities are trade routes with 2 to 4 connection 
points. Certain abilities can be developed (as shown by pictograms 
in a scroll) by creating a trade route next to each of 5 cities (Gro-
ningen, Stade, Lübeck, Göttingen and Halle). In addition, one city 
(Coellen) provides the opportunity to win special prestige points, 
and 2 cities with red banners (Stendal, Arnheim) are necessary to 
complete the East-West Connection. Next to 3 trade routes on the 
map, there are also 3 taverns (Taberna on the game board) where 
the ﬁrst 3 (gold) bonus markers are placed at the beginning of 
the game.
The game board also has a Prestige Point track for scoring and a 
Completed Cities track (to mark cities that have had all of their trad-
ing posts ﬁlled with tradesmen).
The Player’s Writing Desk - Player Boards
Your writing desk is divided into several areas (see illustration on 
the right side below):
The silver plate in the middle at the top of the desk is used to 
store bonus markers that you must place at the end of your turn.
The 5 actions you have available are shown on the bottom in the 
form of small pictograms.
The 5 ability spaces make up the largest part of your writing desk. 
These abilities provide different action options that can also be 
developed.
At the start of the game, you only have the lowest value of each 
ability available – the leftmost empty space. To develop abilities, 
you must complete trade routes for cities with the corresponding 
pictogram.
The following 5 abilities are available (with their respective values 
in brackets):
City Keys
(Prestige Points Network: 1, 2, 2, 3, 4): At the end of the game, each 
trading post in your largest network earns you prestige points 
corresponding to the highest number showing (for details see 
section F Prestige Points for Network on page 7).
Actions [Actiones on your writing desk]
(2, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5): This ability determines how many actions you 
have available each turn.
Privilege [Privilegium on your writing desk]
(primum/lowest - white, minus/low - orange, maius/high - pink, 
maximum/highest - black):
Developing this ability will expose additional colors that indicate 
which trading posts you can ﬁll with your tradesmen. The trading 
post values increase from white to black (Important in case of ties 
– for details see Action E) Create 1 Trade Route on page 4). 
Book of Knowledge [Liber Sophiae on your writing desk]
(2, 3, 4, 5): This value indicates the number of tradesmen you 
can move with action D) Move your Tradesmen on the game board (for 
details see page 4).
Bank
(3, 4, 7, C): This indicates how many of your tradesmen you can 
hire from the general stock to transfer them to your personal sup-
ply for the action A) Income (for details see page 4). “C” comes from 
the Latin cuncti and means “all.” If you have uncovered the C, you 
can use action A) to hire all of your tradesmen in the general stock 
and transfer them to your personal supply.
Prestige Point track
City with Special 
Prestige Points
City with an Ability 
Development
Taverns (the 3 start 
bonus markers – gold – 
are placed here)
Eastern Terminus 
for the East-West 
Connection
Western Terminus 
for the East-West 
Connection
Trade Route
Connection Point
City with 
3 Trading Posts
Completed Cities track with the 
Number of Players scroll next to it

City Keys
Actions
Privilege
Book of Knowledge
Pictograms for the 5 Actions
Storage for new bonus markers that must 
be placed at the end of your turn
Bank
Game Setup
Take the game board of your choice and place it in the middle 
of the playing area. (For your ﬁrst game we recommend using The 
Hanseatic League.)
Take the 3 start bonus markers 
(gold) and randomly place one on 
each of the 3 Taverns so that the 
small arrow on the front of the 
markers clearly points to the as-
signed trade route. 
Shufﬂe the remaining bonus markers and place them facedown 
next to the game board as a supply.
Place the black wooden cube on ﬁeld 0 of the Completed Cities 
track.
Then, everyone chooses a color and takes the corresponding 
 writing desk and tradesmen:
• 1 Writing Desk
• 27 Traders (wooden cubes)
• 4 Merchants (wooden discs)
Note: In the rules, traders and merchants are referred to collectively as 
tradesmen. Whenever tradesmen are mentioned, it is understood to include 
both traders and merchants. In places where this is not the case, the speciﬁc 
terms trader and merchant will be used instead.
Place 3 merchants on the round spaces for the Book of Knowledge 
ability and 15 traders on the square spaces for the other 4 abilities 
on your writing desk, leaving the white-shaded, left-most spaces of 
each ability empty. The numerical values showing in these spaces 
are the respective start values for each ability. (All values are iden-
tical on all of the writing desks).
Place 1 of your traders on the 0 space of the Prestige Points track. 
Determine a start player and then each player distributes their 
remaining tradesmen as follows:
First, everyone places their single remaining merchant in their 
personal supply. Then in clockwise order, the start player takes 5 
traders and places them in their personal supply and each succes-
sive player does the same but takes 1 more than the player before 
them (the second player takes 6 traders, the third takes 7 traders, 
etc.). Place any remaining traders in the general stock where they 
are easily available (see also table below). You must hire tradesmen 
from the general stock to transfer them to your personal supply 
before you can use them for other actions.
 
 Personal General
 Supply Stock
Start Player 5 + 1 6 
 
Player 2 6 + 1 5 
Player 3 7 + 1 4 
Player 4 8 + 1 3 
Player 5 9 + 1 2 

Game Play
Players take turns in clockwise order until 1 of the 3 end game 
conditions has been triggered (see End of Game on page 7). On 
your turn, you have the following 5 actions to choose from:
B) Place 1 tradesman
C) Displace 1 of your opponent’s tradesmen and replace it with 1 
of your own
D) Move your tradesmen on the board
E) Create 1 trade route
At the start of the game you may only take 2 actions per turn. 
By developing the Actions ability, you can increase this up to 5 
 actions per turn. 
During your turn, you can carry out your actions in any order 
and may repeat the same action as desired. However, you must 
always completely ﬁnish each action before selecting another (or 
selecting it again). 
Details for each action:
With this action, depending on your development level of your 
Bank ability, you can hire up to 3, 5, 7 or all of your tradesmen in 
the general stock to transfer them to your personal supply (all if 
you have uncovered the C). 
Details: If there are not enough tradesmen in the general stock you 
only transfer those available. You can only use tradesmen in your 
personal supply for action B) Place 1 tradesman. 
B) Place 1 tradesman
With this action you can place 1 tradesman from your personal 
supply in a free connection point on a trade route (a connection 
point not already occupied by you or an opponent). 
Details: It doesn’t matter if your or your opponents’ tradesmen 
occupy any other connection points on this trade route.
If you repeat this action during your turn, you can choose any 
valid trade route connection point for each placement.
C) Displace 1 of your opponents’ tradesmen and replace it with 
one of your own
With this action you may displace one of your opponents’ trades-
men from a connection point on a trade route and replace it with 
1 of your own tradesmen from your personal supply. If you dis-
place a trader, you must also return 1 additional tradesman from 
your personal supply back to the general stock as a cost. If you 
displace a merchant, you must return 2 tradesmen. 
If you do not have enough tradesmen in your personal supply, 
you may not perform this action.
Your opponent must immediately place their displaced trader 
plus 1 additional tradesman from the general stock, or their dis-
placed merchant plus 2 additional tradesmen from the general 
stock, on any free connection points on adjacent trade routes of 
their choice.
Details: The opponent may place these tradesmen on 1 or more 
adjacent trade routes. If all of the connection points are occupied 
on all of the directly adjacent trade routes, they may then choose 
trade routes adjacent to those trade routes (and so on). 
If your opponent no longer has any tradesmen in the general 
stock, they may use tradesmen from their personal supply in-
stead. If the opponent’s personal supply is also empty, they may 
choose to use any of their tradesmen that have already been 
placed on trade routes. However, the opponent may not place 
any of these tradesmen into their personal supply. They must 
immediately place the tradesmen on a trade route before the 
active player’s next action. An opponent may decline taking any 
additional tradesmen from the general stock or personal supply. 
The red player displaces 1 of the blue player’s traders on the trade route 
between Dortmund and Paderborn. To do so, red must transfer 1 of their 
tradesmen from their personal supply to the general stock. In addition, blue 
receives 1 tradesman from the general stock and then places both this and 
the displaced tradesman on an adjacent trade route - in this example on 2 
different adjacent trade routes.
D) Move your tradesmen on the board
With this action, depending on the development level of your 
Book of Knowledge ability, you can move 2 to 5 of your own trades-
men from connection points on 1 or more trade routes and place 
them on free connection points on 1 or more trade routes. 
Details: This also allows you to swap the positions of one of your 
traders with one of your merchants. (For example, with 2 of your 
moves you could have a trader on one connection point swap 
places with a merchant on another connection point.) When mov-
ing, you may not displace any of your opponents’ tradesmen.
E) Create 1 trade route
You can only perform this action if all the connection points on 
a trade route between 2 cities are occupied by your own trades-
men. Occupying all of the connections on a trade route doesn’t 
automatically create a trade route – you must explicitly perform 
this action to create it.
When you perform this action, carry out the following steps in or-
der – steps 1) and 2) must always be done (as far as possible) and 
then 1 of the 3 alternatives in step 3 may also be done, if possible:
1) 
Score Prestige Points
3b) Develop Ability
3c) Score Special Prestige Points

1) Score Prestige Points 
First determine who, if anyone, controls each of the two cities on 
either end of the trade route being created. The player who has 
the most trading posts in each city controls the city and imme-
diately gains 1 prestige point. In the event of a tie, the tied player 
who occupies the higher valued trading post – furthest to the 
right – controls the city. If one player controls both cities, they 
immediately gain 2 prestige points (1 for each city). Track prestige 
points by advancing a player’s trader on the Prestige Points track 
the appropriate number of spaces. If anyone now has 20 or more 
prestige points, the game ends immediately after this action. 
Details: Scoring prestige points is independent of whether or not 
you claim a trading post in either of the two cities (as described 
in step 3a). You can also create a trade route to gain additional 
prestige points (and possibly surprise your opponents with an 
accelerated end of game), or to take a bonus marker (see step 2) 
Take Bonus Marker).
The red player has created the trade route between Dortmund and Paderborn. 
First, he checks whether and who controls the two cities on each end. At 
this point, Dortmund has 1 trading post established by red who now gains 1 
prestige point.
Red also established 1 trading post in Paderborn, but the blue player has 
 established 1 as well. Since the blue player established the higher valued 
 trading post further to the right, blue now gains 1 prestige point for controlling 
this city.
If there is a bonus marker next to the newly created trade route, 
take it and place it faceup next to the left side of your writing 
desk. You can use this bonus marker once at any time during any 
of your turns after completing this action - that is, on this or a 
later turn. Using a bonus marker does not cost you an action. 
 After you have used the one-time bonus marker, place it face-
down to the right of your writing desk. At the end of the game, 
all of your collected bonus markers (faceup and facedown) will be 
counted for prestige points.
Then, immediately take 1 new bonus marker from the supply and 
place it facedown on the silver plate on your writing desk. How-
ever, if there aren’t any more bonus markers in the supply, the 
game ends immediately after this action. If not, you must place 
this bonus marker on the game board at the end of your turn. 
You can place the bonus marker next to any trade route you like. 
The following 3 restrictions apply:
• There can’t be any tradesmen on this trade route.
• At least 1 trading post space must be empty in 1 of the 2 cities 
at either end of the trade route.
Further details for bonus markers can be found on pages 8 and 9.
The red player now takes the bonus marker +3 actions that is next to the 
trade route. After completing their action (Create 1 trade route), red may use 
this bonus marker during any one of their turns, including this one. Also, to 
complete this action, red must now take 1 bonus marker from the supply and 
place it facedown on their silver plate. Then, at the end of this turn – and 
after the use of the bonus marker for +3 actions if red decides to use it 
during this turn – red must place this new bonus marker on the game board, 
observing the 3 restrictions. 
 
In step 3, you can only choose 1 of the following 3 options (3a, 3b, 
or 3c) or you may choose to skip step 3 altogether.
Remove all of your tradesmen on this trade route and return all 
but 1 to the general stock.
Use the remaining tradesman to establish the leftmost vacant 
trading post space in one of the two cities on either end of the 
trade route.
Details: This means you cannot skip over a vacant trading post 
space, and must establish your trading post in the lowest vacant 
space. The value of spaces begins with white – the lowest – to 
orange to pink to black. You must qualify to establish a trading 
post in spaces higher than a white one by developing your Privilege 
ability.
In addition, a trader must always be placed on a square trading 
post space and a merchant on a round trading post space. You 
may only place a tradesman in a trading post that was on the 
trade route – it cannot be one taken from the general stock or 
your personal supply.
The red player now wants to establish another trading post in Dortmund. First 
they return 2 of their 3 tradesmen from the trade route back to the general 
stock and then they place the remaining tradesman, in this case a trader, 
on the orange space. Red is allowed to do this because they have already 
 developed their Privilege ability up to pink – high. Although red could 
 theoretically establish a trading post on the far right due to their privilege; 
they can’t do this because you are not allowed to skip a vacant trading post 
space. Therefore red must establish their trader in the orange space instead.

Further Details: On the Hanseatic game board, you immediately gain 
1 prestige point when you establish the ﬁrst trading post on each 
of 6 cities on the 3-player side (Groningen, Stade, Lübeck, Coellen, 
Warburg and Halle) or on each of 4 cities on the 4 to 5-player 
side (Groningen, Lübeck, Coellen and Halle) – illustrated by an 
icon of a 1 in a gold circle. If this causes anyone to have 20 or 
more prestige points, the game ends immediately after this action.
If you establish a trading post in the last vacant space in a city, 
immediately advance the black wooden marker on the Completed 
Cities track 1 space. If the 10th city is fully occupied, the game ends 
immediately after this action. If all of the trading post spaces in 
a city have been established, no further tradesmen can be placed 
in this city (exception: bonus marker Additional Trading Post; see 
page 8).
A trade route may still be created even if the cities on both ends 
have already been completed. For example, a player may want to 
earn prestige points for the cities on either end. 
East-West Connection
Immediately after you establish a trading post that creates a con-
tinuous chain of your trading posts from Stendal to Arnheim (in-
dicated by red banners), you have created an East-West Connection 
and immediately gain prestige points as follows:
If you are the ﬁrst player to create the connection, you gain 7 
prestige points, 4 prestige points if you are second, and 2 prestige 
points if you are third. If anyone now has 20 or more prestige 
points, the game ends immediately after completing this action.
The length of this route, the positions of your trading posts in 
the cities, and whether you control the cities are all irrelevant for 
creating the East-West Connection.
Two examples of possible East-West Connections; yellow shows the shortest 
possible East-West Connection.
3b) Develop 1 Ability 
If one of the two adjacent cities has a pictogram of one of the 5 
abilities (City Keys / Actions / Privilege / Book of Knowledge / Bank), 
you can develop the corresponding ability instead of occupying a 
trading post. First return all of the tradesmen on the trade route 
back to the general stock. Then, from your writing desk, remove 
the left-most trader (City Keys / Actions / Privilege / Bank) or mer-
chant (Book of Knowledge) from the corresponding ability and place 
it in your personal supply.
Details: From now on you can use the improved value of this abili-
ty. For example, if you have just revealed the ﬁrst 3, the ﬁrst 4, or 
the 5 for the Actions ability, you gain one additional action that is 
immediately available this turn (even if this happens when using a 
bonus marker for +3 or +4 actions).
3c) Special Prestige Points
If you create a trade route between the cities of Coellen and 
Warburg, instead of establishing a trading post, you may place a 
merchant on 1 of the 4 spaces for special prestige points (7, 8, 9, 11).
Details: This space must be empty and the merchant must come 
from the trade route; return any remaining tradesmen to the 
general stock.
However, you are free to choose any vacant space, in other words, 
you can skip empty spaces. You must still have the appropriate 
privilege color exposed on your writing desk (the color of the ﬁg-
ure carrying the barrel with the number). This merchant remains 
in this space until the end of the game when these special prestige 
points are ﬁnally scored.
The red player has created a trade route between Coellen and Warburg. He 
has already developed his Privilege ability to level orange – low.
Red decides to move his merchant from the trade route to the orange space 
for 8 special prestige points.
Alternatively, red could have used a trader from the trade route to establish 
the orange trading post space in Warburg or the white trading post space in 
Coellen (for which red would have gained 1 additional prestige point). The 
 remaining 3 tradesmen from the trade route are returned to the general stock.

End of Game
The end of a Hansa Teutonica game can be triggered in 3 ways that 
all occur during action E) Create 1 trade route. If the game end is 
triggered, the active player completes this action, but any remain-
ing actions are lost and the game ends immediately - there are no 
more turns for any player. The 3 ways to trigger the end of the 
game are:
• When anyone has scored 20 or more prestige points on the 
Prestige Points track – and it doesn’t have to be that player’s turn. 
• When the active player needs to draw a bonus marker (to place 
it on the game board at the end of their turn) but the bonus 
marker supply has been used up. Note: The player won’t have 
the chance to use the bonus marker they’ve just taken from the 
game board!
• When the active player establishes a trading post that completes 
the tenth city, in other words, when the Completed Cities marker 
has reached the last space (10). 
Note: During the game you only gain prestige points when per-
forming the following steps of action E) Create 1 trade route: 
• control over the cities on each end of the trade route 
• establishing certain trading posts 
• completing an East-West Connection
All other prestige points are only scored after the end of the 
game has been triggered.
Tally your Prestige Points
There are two ways to tally your prestige points:
You can use either the Prestige Points track on the game board OR 
the scorepad (which is useful for keeping statistics).
The following 6 categories all provide prestige points – add all 
these points together to determine the winner of a game:
A) Prestige Points from the Prestige Points track
These are the prestige points gained for certain actions during 
the game.
B) Prestige Points for fully developed abilities
For each ability that you have fully developed (there are no 
tradesmen left – all spaces are empty), gain 4 prestige points. 
(Exception: No prestige points are gained for fully developing the 
City Keys ability.)
C) Prestige Points for total bonus markers collected
For your total collected bonus markers (whether used during the 
game or not) you gain prestige points as follows:
Number of Bonus Markers
Prestige Points
2 or 3
4 or 5
6 or 7
8 or 9
10 or more
D) Special Prestige Points for Coellen
If you occupied 1 or more spaces in Coellen with a merchant, you 
now gain these special prestige points as indicated. 
E) Prestige Points for Cities
Now all of the cities are scored. You gain 2 prestige points for each 
city you control – those where you have the most trading posts. 
(Trading posts you’ve established using the bonus marker Additional 
Trading Post – to the left of the lowest trading post – count towards 
your total.) If there is a tie for most trading posts in a city, the 
tied player with the highest valued trading post – furthest right – 
gains the 2 points for the city. (This means only 1 player per city 
will gain 2 points.)
F) Prestige Points for Network
Finally, identify your largest network of connected trading posts. 
A network is comprised of all adjacent cities in which you have at 
least 1 trading post. Choose a city where you have at least 1 trading 
post to begin counting your trading posts for your network. Use 
an adjacent trade route to trace to the next adjacent city where 
you have at least 1 trading post and add your trading posts there 
to your network count. Repeat the previous step to continue trac-
ing to additional adjacent cities where you have at least 1 trading 
post. (Of course, the trading posts in any valid city can only be 
added to your network count once.) 
Finally, multiply the total number of trading posts in your net-
work by the largest number you have uncovered in your City Keys 
ability. Add these prestige points to your total.
The red player has built a network of 7 cities with a total of 9 trading posts. 
(The trading post in Kampen is not included because it is not adjacent to any 
other city in this network.) Because he has developed his City Keys ability 
to 3, he receives 3 prestige points per trading post in this network for a total 
of 27 PP.
The player who now has the most prestige points wins the game. 
If there is a tie, the tied player who has developed their Actions 
ability the least wins. If there is still a tie, the player who scored 
the most points for their network wins. If there is still a tie, the 
tied players share the victory.

Here is an explanation of all of the bonus markers:
Exchange Trading Posts
This bonus marker allows you to exchange the posi-
tions of 2 tradesmen in adjacent established trading 
posts in a city. You must own one of the two trading 
posts exchanged. The shape and color required for 
the 2 adjacent spaces are irrelevant. This means that a trader and 
a merchant can exchange trading posts and that you can occupy 
a trading post for which you have not yet developed the privilege. 
The red player uses an Exchange 
Trading Posts bonus marker to 
 exchange trading posts with the blue 
player in Perleberg. They can do this 
even though their Privilege ability 
hasn’t been developed to black and 
they are placing a trader in a space 
that normally requires a merchant. 
Develop 1 Ability
This bonus marker allows you to develop 1 ability 
of your choice by removing the leftmost trader or 
merchant from this ability and placing it in your 
personal supply – as in action E) Create 1 trade route – 
step 3b) Develop 1 Ability.
The red player decides to use the bonus marker Develop 1 Ability to 
 develop their Book of Knowledge ability. They take the leftmost merchant 
and place it in their personal stock. If they now choose action D) Move your 
Tradesmen on the board, they will now be able to move 3 tradesmen 
instead of 2. 
Additional Trading Post
When taking the action E) Create 1 trade route – step 3a) 
Establish Trading Post, you can use this bonus marker 
to change the rules for occupying a trading post as 
follows:
Place 1 of your tradesmen from the trade route to the left of the 
trading post spaces to create an additional trading post in 1 of the 
2 cities at either end of the trade route. The only requirement is 
that the left most (lowest) space must already have a trading post 
established by any player (including yourself).
For the rest of the game, each additional trading post counts like 
any other for evaluations. Their value is lower than that of any 
trading post to their right. If more additional trading posts are es-
tablished in this city, they will always be placed to the left of any 
previously established additional trading posts.
You may not apply the Exchange Trading Posts bonus marker to any 
of these additional trading posts.
The red player has created a trade 
route between Bremen and Han-
nover. In step 3a) of this action, 
they decide to establish a trading 
post in Hannover. Since all of the 
trading post spaces there are 
 already occupied, they use the 
 bonus marker Additional Trad-
ing Post to allow them to place 
one of their tradesmen from the trade route to the left of those already present 
in the city. Now the red player has established a trading post in this city.
+3 / +4 Actions
These bonus markers grant you 3 or 
4 additional actions regardless of how 
many you can perform based on your 
Actions ability.
Bonus Markers
At the beginning of your turn, there will always be 3 bonus 
markers on the game board. When you create a trade route that 
has a bonus marker next to it, take it and place it faceup to the 
left of your writing desk (see also page 5 E) Create a trade route - 
step 2) Take Bonus Marker.) Then, immediately draw a new bonus 
marker and place it facedown (with the side showing bread and 
meat visible) on the silver plate on your writing desk. (This serves 
as a reminder so that you don’t forget to place the new bonus 
marker(s) at the end of your turn.) If you can’t draw a new bonus 
marker because the supply is empty, the game ends immediately 
after this action. (This also means that you won’t be able to use 
the bonus marker you’ve just taken from the game board!)
At the end of your turn, place 1 new bonus marker for each one 
you have taken this turn on your silver plate. (This placement 
happens after the play of any +3 or +4 Actions bonus markers.) 
You can place them on any trading route with the following 3 
restrictions: 
• There can’t be any tradesmen on the trade route.
• At least 1 trading post space must be empty in 1 of the 2 cities 
at either end of the trade route.
The small dark gray arrow on each bonus marker 
serves as an aid to clearly assign a bonus marker 
to a trade route.
You can use bonus markers at any time during your turn, but not 
in the same action in which you took it. Using a bonus marker 
does not cost an action. After using it once, ﬂip the bonus marker 
over and place it to the right of your player board. It remains 
there until the end of the game, at which time all of your collect-
ed bonus markers are counted for prestige points regardless of 
whether they are faceup or facedown.

Move 3 Tradesmen
Using this bonus marker, you can remove a total 
of up to 3 of your opponents’ tradesmen of your 
choice from occupied connection points on 1 or 
more trade routes to then re-place them them on 
free connection points on 1 or more trade routes. The 3 tradesmen 
may belong to 1, 2 or 3 different players.
You can use this to change the positions of tradesmen. (A mer-
chant could be moved to a new connection point and then a 
trader taken from another connection could be placed in the 
merchant’s former position.) 
In the process of moving a tradesman, you can’t displace another 
tradesman. 
Important Rules to Remember
• Creating a trade route is a separate action.
• For action E) 1 Create 1 trade route, the tradesmen from the trade 
route must be returned to the general stock; if you establish a 
trading post in one of the cities on either end of the trade route, 
the tradesman used must be one from this trade route.
• When creating a trade route, players may gain prestige points for 
controlling a city on either end of the trade route.
• At the end of your turn, any new bonus markers (on your silver 
plate) must be placed on the game board.
• After a trade route has been created and a trading post has been 
established, you must check whether either of the cities has been 
ﬁlled and update the Completed Cities track accordingly.
• When an ability is developed, the tradesman from the ability is 
placed in your personal supply.
• For action C) Displace 1 of your opponent’s tradesmen and replace it with 
one of your own, the player who displaces an opponent’s tradesman 
must move 1 (for a trader) or 2 (for a merchant) of their trades-
men from their personal supply to the general stock. The oppo-
nent who has been displaced gets the same number of tradesmen 
from the general stock and places them on the game board.
• Merchants are almost always treated like traders, except in the 
following 3 situations:
- when displacing, they cost/transfer more tradesmen,
- trading post spaces require speciﬁc tradesmen: square spaces 
require traders and round spaces require merchants,
- You can only use merchants for the special prestige points in 
Coellen.
Tips for Good Play
• In the ﬁrst couple of games, we recommend playing with 3 or 
4 players in order not to exceed the speciﬁed playing time. Ex-
perienced players can ﬁnish a game in about 90 minutes even 
with 5 players.
• We recommend players count their individual actions out loud 
to avoid confusion.
• This game offers many different ways to score prestige points. 
After you play your ﬁrst game you’ll gain a stronger under-
standing for the diverse ways they can be used. 
Note: The game contains 2 blank Bonus Markers. You can use 
them for your own ideas.

Additional Material for The Hanseatic League Game Board for Experienced Merchants
Once you have gained some experience with Hansa Teutonica, you can add the following two additional elements – 
Mission Cards and Emperor’s Favour – either individually or together using The Hanseatic League game board. 
Mission Cards
In the Hanseatic League of Cities, some cities enjoyed a greater reputation 
than others among the merchants striving for power and political inﬂuence. 
That is why merchants compete to establish the most trading posts in a man-
ageable number of cities in order to gain the most prestige for themselves.
During Game Setup, shufﬂe the 9 Mission cards and deal each player 
1 card facedown. Keep this card secret from your opponents until 
the end of the game. Return any remaining cards to the box, you 
won’t need them for this game.
At the end of the game, you gain 1 prestige point for each city 
listed on your Mission card in which you have established at least 
1 trading post (i.e., a maximum of 3 prestige points). If you also 
manage to establish the most trading posts in all 3 cities on your 
Mission card (or if there is a tie, the highest valued one, furthest 
to the right), you will receive an additional bonus of 5 prestige 
points. In total, your Mission card can earn you a total of 8 pres-
tige points at the end of the game.
There are 3 cities named on each card. The names of the ﬁrst 
two cities appear on 2 other cards 1 (opponents could also have 
them on their card). The third city is only represented on this 
card 2 . The coin icons on the small illustration below show the 
location of the 3 cities on the game map 3 .
Emperor’s Favour
Merchants in the Hanseatic League steadily gained power and political inﬂu-
ence through brisk trade and expansion. They purchased special permits and 
privileges directly from the emperor for large sums of money and were legally 
subordinate to him alone. This meant Hansa members were free from paying 
taxes to regional princes and dukes.
During Game Setup, mix the Emperor’s Favour tiles together facedown. 
Randomly select a number of tiles equal to the player number 
and place them faceup next to the game board. These create the 
display of tiles you can buy this game. Return all remaining tiles 
back to the box, you won’t need them for this game.
At the beginning of your turn, you may choose to forego all of 
your actions for that turn in order to acquire 1 Emperor’s Favour 
tile by ﬂipping 2 of your unused bonus tokens over and placing 
them both to the right of your writing desk (they will still count 
at the end of the game when calculating the prestige points for 
bonus tokens). You may only acquire 1 Emperor’s Favor tile per turn.
Place the acquired Emperor’s Favour tile faceup in front of you. 
Four of these tiles grant you permanent advantages during the 
game and two earn you additional prestige points at the end of 
the game:
During the game 
 
Whenever you are displaced, you can place your dis-
placed tradesmen on free connection points of trade 
routes of your choice instead of on adjacent trade 
routes.
From now on, you have 1 additional action available 
each turn. (This makes it possible to perform more 
than 5 actions per turn.)
 
Whenever another player carries out the Income 
 action, you may take 1 tradesman from the general 
stock and place it in your personal supply.
Whenever one of your traders is displaced, you 
 receive 2 tradesmen from the general stock instead 
of 1.
At the end of the game 
At the end of the game, you gain 2 additional pres-
tige points for each city in which you have estab-
lished the most trading posts (i.e. a total of 4 instead 
of 2).
At the end of the game, you gain 7 prestige points 
instead of 4 for each fully developed ability.

Alternative Game Boards
As an alternative to playing with The Hanseatic League, you can also use either of the other two game boards included:
The Eastern Hanseatic League or Britannia
Both of these game boards include new elements and therefore play differently. 
The Eastern Hanseatic League
The Hanseatic League expands into the eastern regions of Europe. New 
 connections must be made; now maritime routes requiring merchants play 
an important role. Cities that don’t belong to the Hanseatic League want to 
 create their own networks. You must meet these new challenges to conﬁrm 
your reputation as a accomplished merchant.
Game Setup for The Eastern Hanseatice League is the same as for The 
Hanseatic League, and is suitable for 3-5 players. To establish an East-
West Connection on this map, you must create a continuous chain 
of trading posts from Lübeck to Danzig (as indicated by the red 
banners). You can gain special prestige points in Königsberg.
All rules for The Hanseatic League apply unchanged.
The Eastern Hanseatic League has the following new elements:
The City of Waren
This city provides a choice of 2 abilities to 
develop. If you create 1 of the 3 trade routes 
for Waren, you can either develop 1 of the 2 
abilities (Actions or Bank) or you can establish 
1 trading post according to the rules for (yellow and) green cities 
(see next paragraph). 
(Yellow and) Green Cities
The cities of Belgard, Waren, and Dresden are 
not Hanseatic cities and are identiﬁed by a 
green (Belgard) or yellow and green (Waren, 
Dresden) banner. You cannot establish a trad-
ing post in these cities as usual; you can only establish a trading 
post there if you either:
• use the permanent bonus marker Establish a Trading Post in a 
(Yellow and) Green City when creating a maritime trade route (see 
explanation below),
• use the bonus marker Additional Trading Post when creating a trade 
route adjacent to a (yellow and) green city. With this you can 
place 1 tradesman from the trade route to establish a trading 
post in a (yellow and) green city. If there are already 1 or more 
tradesmen in this city, you must add your additional tradesman 
to the left of all other tradesmen there to establish your trading 
post.
As soon as you have placed 1 tradesman in a (yellow and) green 
city to establish a trading post, it counts as fully occupied. Advance 
the Completed Cities marker on its track 1 space.
Treat the (yellow and) green cities like any other Hanseatic city 
when awarding prestige points (when creating a trade route and 
at the end of the game when evaluating categories E) and F)).
Maritime Trade Routes
Maritime trade routes have two special features:
1. You need 1 or 2 merchants to create a maritime sea route. (These 
connection points are depicted as a boat instead of a house and 
only have circles for merchants and no squares for traders.)
2. After creating a maritime trade route, you immediately gain 
use of a permanent bonus marker (see below).
You cannot place a bonus marker on maritime trade routes as 
there is already a permanent bonus marker there.
Note: In addition, maritime trade routes are the shortest route for 
 creating the East-West Connection between the cities of Lübeck and 
Danzig. 
Permanent Bonus Markers
One permanent bonus marker is assigned to each of the 4 mari-
time trade routes. Whenever you create one of these maritime 
trade routes, you can use the permanent bonus marker for the 
corresponding route immediately at the end of this action and 
only then.
Note: Since you can’t take permanent bonus markers, you won’t 
receive any prestige points for them at the end of the game.
Explanations of the 4 permanent bonus markers:
 Move any 2 tradesmen of your choice:
 If you create this maritime trade route, you may 
move 2 tradesmen of your choice on trade routes 
(your own and/or opponents’). Exchanging places 
with the two tradesmen is permitted.
Develop the Privilege ability:
If you create this maritime trade route, you may de-
velop your Privilege ability following the usual rules.
Establish a Trading Post in a (yellow and) green City:
 If you create this maritime trading route, you may 
establish a trading post by placing 1 tradesman from 
your personal supply in a (yellow and) green city of 
your choice. Important: You must always place your 
tradesman to the right of any other tradesmen that 
may already be in the city.
Place 2 Tradesmen:
 If you create this maritime trade route, you can use 
2 tradesmen from this trade route to place on free 
connection points on the board – instead of return-
ing them to the general stock. 

Britannia
English City
Welsh City
Scottish City
Game Setup for Britannia is the same as for 
The Hanseatic League. The 3-player game 
map only includes England and Wales. 
The 4 to 5-player map on the other side 
adds Scotland. Trade routes are highlight-
ed in white for England, brown for Wales, 
and blue for Scotland. The city names are 
also highlighted with brown in Wales and 
blue in Scotland. The division into these 3 
countries is important to game play, as is 
shown below. 
To establish an East-West Connection on this 
map, you must create a continuous chain 
of trading posts from Oxford to York (as 
indicated by the red banners and red 
score shield). You can gain special prestige points in Plymouth.
All rules for The Hanseatic League apply unchanged. with the follow-
ing exceptions:
• The game ends immediately at the end of action E) Create 1 Trade 
Route once you have established trading posts in all spaces in an 
8th city (instead of 10th).
• The placement of new bonus markers is subject to 2 additional 
restrictions, however, the basic rule remains unchanged. 
 - You may not place bonus markers on maritime trade routes 
with a permanent bonus marker.
 - Likewise, you may not place bonus markers on trade routes 
in Wales (highlighted in brown) and Scotland (highlighted in 
blue).
The Britannia game board has the following new elements:
The countries of England, Wales, and Scotland
Within England, you can perform the actions B) Place 1 tradesman 
and C) Displace 1 of your opponent’s tradesmen and replace it with 1 of your 
own according to the usual rules. However, in Wales and Scotland, 
you need permission to perform these 2 actions:
Cardiff (Wales)
If you have the highest-valued trading 
post in Cardiff – furthest to the right – 
you have permission to perform 1 of the 
following 2 actions once per turn in Wales:
Carlisle (Scotland – only for 4-5 players)
If you have the highest-valued trading 
post in Carlisle – furthest to the right – 
you have permission to perform 1 of the 
following 2 actions once per turn in Scotland: 
London (England)
If you have the highest-valued trad-
ing post in London – furthest to the 
right – you can perform 1 of the fol-
lowing 2 actions once per turn in Wales or (when playing with 
4-5) in Scotland:
Note: You can develop your Privilege ability in London – that’s 
why the city banner has 2 colors on the 3-player map and 
3 colors in the 4 to 5-player map. 
Remarks:
Each of the 3 cities gives you permission to perform 1 of the 2 
actions once per turn. Therefore, if you have the highest-valued 
trading post in Cardiff and London, you have permission to per-
form this action outside England twice on your turn – (either 
twice in Wales or once in Wales and once in Scotland).
You can always perform these actions in England regardless of 
permissions in Wales and/or Scotland.
Tradesmen displaced in action C) Displace 1 of your opponent’s trades-
men and replace it with 1 of your own may only be re-placed on con-
nection points of adjacent trade routes of the country of origin 
or England.
You do not need any special permission for action D) Move your 
tradesmen on the board, but you must observe the following guidelines: 
• You can only move tradesmen in England to free connection 
points in England.
• You can only move tradesmen in Wales to free connection points 
in Wales or England.
• You can only move tradesmen in Scotland to free connection 
points in Scotland or England.
You do not need special permission for the action E) Create 1 Trade 
Route in either Wales or Scotland. For this action, it doesn’t matter 
what color the trade route is (that is, which country it’s assigned 
to) or in where each of the two cites on each end of the trade 
route are located. For example, you could create a trade route 
between Conway and Chester, or between Chester and Carlisle, 
or between Chester and Hereford, to establish a trading post in 
Chester or to develop the Actions ability.
Limitations for the bonus marker Move 3 Tradesmen:
If you use this bonus marker, you may only displace tradesmen 
within one country (e.g. a tradesman from England must still be 
in England after the action is completed). An exchange of posi-
tions (within the same country) is still permitted.
Maritime Trade Routes
Maritime trade routes have 2 special features:
1. You need 1 or 2 merchants to create a maritime sea route. (These 
connection points are depicted as a boat instead of a house and 
only have circles for merchants and no squares for traders.)
2. After creating a maritime trade route, you immediately gain 
use of a permanent bonus marker on 2 of the maritime trade 
routes on the 4 to 5-player map and on 3 of the maritime 
trade routes on the 3-player map (see below). 

Permanent Bonus Markers
One permanent bonus marker is assigned to the 2 maritime trade 
routes in southeast England (on both maps) as well as the mar-
itime trade route between the Isle of Man and Carlisle on the 
3-player map. Whenever you create one of these maritime trade 
routes, you can use the permanent bonus marker for the corre-
sponding route immediately at the end of this action and only 
then. 
Note 1: You cannot place a bonus marker on these routes - there is 
already a permanent bonus marker there. 
Note 2: Since you can’t take permanent bonus markers, you won’t 
receive any prestige points for them at the end of the game.
Explanations of the 2 types of permanent bonus markers:
Move any 2 tradesmen of your choice
 If you create this maritime trade route, you may 
move 2 tradesmen of your choice on the game board 
(your own and/or opponents’). You can only move a 
tradesman within one country (for example, a trader 
in England must still be in England after the move). 
Exchanging places with the two tradesmen is per-
mitted.
Place 2 Tradesmen
You may take 2 of your tradesmen from the gener-
al stock and place them on free connection points 
in Wales and/or Scotland. (If there are none in the 
general stock, you can take them from your personal 
supply. If there are none in your personal supply, you 
can take them from the game board).
Scoring additional points for Wales and Scotland
Whoever controls the most cities in Wales at the end of the game 
gains 7 prestige points, second place gains 4, and third place gains 
2 (as shown on the brown score shield).
You control a city if you have established the most trading posts 
there (if there is a tie, as usual, the highest valued one wins – 
 furthest to the right).
If there is a tie for most cities controlled, the tied players count 
their trading posts in Wales. The tied player with the most trading 
posts wins the tie. If there is still a tie, divide the prestige points 
for this position and the next lower position by the number of 
players in the tie. Round the result down, if necessary.
Example: 2 players each control 2 cities and have the same number of trading 
posts in Wales. Both players gain (7 + 4) / 2 = 5 prestige points. The player 
that controls the next most cities gain only 2 prestige points for third place.
After players who controlled cities in Wales have received their 
awards, any players who didn’t control a city in Wales may qualify 
for any remaining prestige points. Compare the number of trad-
ing posts each of these players have in Wales. The player who has 
the most trading posts gains the higher number of prestige points 
remaining, etc.
Players without any trading posts in Wales can’t earn prestige 
points there.
If you use the scorepad, add these points to the row for Prestige 
Points for Cities.
Perform an additional scoring for Scotland in the same way when 
playing on the 4 to 5-player board (as shown on the blue score 
shield).
The Isle of Man belongs to both Wales and 
Scotland (refer to the banner colors) and there-
fore counts for scoring both countries.
Credits
Game Designer: Andreas Steding
Illustrations: Dennis Lohausen
Graphic Design: Jens Wiese
Realization: Klaus Ottmaier 
English Translation: Ralph H Anderson
Pegasus Spiele GmbH, Am Straßbach 3, 61169 Fridberg, Germany. 
© 2020 Pegasus Spiele GmbH. All rights reserved.
Reprinting and publishing of game rules, game components or 
illustrations without the permission of Pegasus Spiele is prohibited.
You will ﬁnd a short rules summary 
on the next page.

Rules Summary
Game Setup
Choose a game board.
Take the 3 start bonus markers (marked with gold) and randomly 
place one on each of the 3 Taverns pointing to their assigned 
trade route.
Place the black wooden cube on ﬁeld 0 of the Completed Cities track.
Then, everyone chooses a color and takes the corresponding writ-
ing desk and places 15 traders and 3 merchants in their respective 
spaces.
Place your remaining tradesmen (traders and merchants) in your 
personal supply and the general stock as follows:
 
 Personal General
 Supply Stock
Start Player 5 + 1 6 
 
Player 2 6 + 1 5 
Player 3 7 + 1 4 
Player 4 8 + 1 3 
Player 5 9 + 1 2 
Game Play
With this action, depending on your develop-
ment of this ability, you can hire up to 3, 5, 7 
or all of your tradesmen in the general stock to transfer them 
to your personal supply (all if you have uncovered the C). 
B) Place 1 tradesman 
With this action you can place 1 tradesman 
from your personal supply in a free connec-
tion point on a trade route (a connection point not already 
occupied by you or an opponent).
C) Displace 1 of your opponents’ tradesmen and replace it with 1 
of your own 
With this action you may displace one of your 
oppo nents’ tradesmen from a connection point 
on a trade route and replace it with 1 of your own tradesmen 
from your personal supply. If you displace a trader, you must 
also return 1 additional tradesman from your personal supply 
back to the general stock as a cost. If you displace a merchant, 
you must return 2 tradesmen.
Your opponent must immediately place their displaced trader 
plus 1 additional tradesman from the general stock, or their 
displaced merchant plus 2 additional tradesmen from the gen-
eral stock, on any free connection points on adjacent trade 
routes of their choice. 
D) Move your tradesmen on the board 
With this action, depending on the develop-
ment level of your Book of Knowledge ability, you 
can move 2 to 5 of your own tradesmen from connection 
points on 1 or more trade routes and place them on free con-
nection points on 1 or more trade routes. 
E) Create 1 trade route 
You can only perform this action if all the 
 connection points on a trade route between 2 
cities are occupied by your own tradesmen.
When you perform this action, carry out the following steps in 
order – steps 1) and 2) must always be done (as far as possible) 
and then 1 of the 3 alternatives in step 3 may also be done, 
if possible: 
1) Score Prestige Points 
The player who has the most trading posts in each of the 
2 cities at either end of the trade route controls the city 
and immediately gains 1 prestige point. (In the event of a 
tie, the tied player who occupies the higher valued trading 
post – furthest to the right – controls the city). 
If there is a bonus marker next to the newly created trade 
route, take it and place it faceup next to the left side of 
your writing desk. You can use this bonus marker once at 
any time during any of your turns after completing this 
action. Using a bonus marker does not cost you an action. 
Immediately take 1 new bonus marker from the supply. You 
must place this bonus marker on the game board at the end 
of your turn. The following 3 restrictions apply: 
• There can’t be any tradesmen on this trade route.
• At least 1 trading post space must be empty in 1 of the 2 
cities at either end of the trade route. 
Use 1 tradesman from this route to establish a trading post 
in the leftmost empty trading post space in one of the two 
cities on either end of the trade route. 
East-West Connection
If this trading post creates a continuous chain of your trad-
ing posts from Stendal to Arnheim / from Lübeck to Dan-
zing / from Oxford to York (with red banners), you have 
established an East-West Connection and immediately gain 
prestige points as follows: 7 prestige points if you are the 
ﬁrst to establish the connection, 4 points if you are second, 
and 2 points if you are third. 
3b) Develop Ability 
If one of the two adjacent cities has a pictogram of one of 
the 5 abilities, you can develop the corresponding ability. 
3c) Special Prestige Points
You can place a merchant in 1 of the 4 spaces for special end 
game prestige points in Coellen on The Hanseatic League 
map, on Königsberg on The Eastern Hanseatic League map, 
and on Plymouth on the Britannia map.
End of Game
The game’s end can be triggered in 3 ways. The active player 
completes their action, but any remaining actions are lost and the 
game ends immediately - there are no more turns for any player. 
• A player scores 20 or more prestige points. 
• The active player cannot take a replacement bonus marker 
 because the supply is empty.
• The active player establishes a trading post that completes the 
tenth city on the Completed Cities track (or the 8th city on the 
Britannia map). 
See the scorepad for summary of prestige points gained at 
the end of the game.