goal of the game
The tortoise accepted the hare’s demand for a rematch, and the news 
spread throughout the country. The great race was about to commence, 
and all the participants were finally ready for this big showdown. Who, 
among the hare, the tortoise, the wolf, the lamb, and the fox, will be 
celebrated as the fastest runner in the woods? Bet on a good animal, 
and don’t forget: Nothing is served by running; you must leave on time!
 contents
• 11 Track tiles (including 2 tiles depicting a stream).
• 5 stickers to place on the 5 corresponding wooden pawns: the hare (brown), 
the tortoise (green), the wolf (black), the fox (orange), and the lamb (blue).
• 91 cards, comprising 81 Racing cards (18 Hare, 17 Tortoise, 16 Wolf, 
15 Fox, 15 Lamb), 5 Starting Bet cards , and 5 Player Aid cards .
• 1 starting line .
• 1 podium and 1 finish line to assemble .
• 1 First Player token .
• 5 Turbo tokens ( +2 ) used in the variant (see the end of the rulebook).
 setup
• First bet: shuffle the 5 Starting Bet cards. Give each player 1 Starting 
Bet card . Keep your Starting Bet card facedown in front of you during 
the entire game. In a 2player game, give each player 2 Starting Bet cards, 
instead of just 1. Put the leftover cards back in the box without anyone 
looking at the fronts of the cards.
• Build the track: Place the starting line on the table, then shuffle the Track 
tiles. Beginning from the starting line, place the Track tiles one by one, at 
random, so that they create a continuous path. When you place a tile, you 
can choose which side of the tile to use, and which way to turn it.
the rules of the game

 
The Track tiles depicting a stream are the same on both sides. As soon 
as you have placed the last Track tile, place the finish line and the 
podium at the end of the track (see the diagram below).
• Second bet: Shuffle the Racing cards , and deal 7 to each player. 
Each player chooses one card, and places it facedown beside her Star-
ting Bet card. You may choose the same animal as the one on your 
Starting Bet card, if you like. You can look at the fronts of your own 
two cards at any time during the game, but you should never let the 
other players see them.
Now you each have 6 cards in your hand, and 2 Bet cards placed 
facedown in front of you (3 Bet cards in front of you if there are only 
2 players). The rest of the Racing cards form the deck; place the deck 
where everyone can reach it.
• Give each player a Player Aid card .
• Place the Animal pawns on the starting line. The first player to say 
what time it is gets to go first. Give her the Start Player pawn .
now the race can begin!!!
We propose a starting variant at the end of this rulebook. However, before using 
it, we advise you to read all the rules first, so you have an idea of how to play.
Yo
in
th
th
A 
W
in 
On
de
em
If,
• T
(n
If 
yo
ca
Discard

on 
er. 
ar-
ur 
wn 
ed 
nly 
ck 
ay 
ng 
y.
playing the game
You will take turns in clockwise order, placing Racing cards faceup
in front of you. When there is a certain number of cards on the table, 
this triggers the racing phase, and you will move the animals along 
the track.
A Player’s Turn
When it is your turn, you must place 1 to 4 cards from your hand faceup
in front of you. These cards must depict the same animal.
Once you have placed your cards, you refill your hand with cards from the 
deck, so you end your turn with 6 cards in your hand. If the deck becomes 
empty, shuffle the discard in order to form a new deck.
If, at the end of your turn, one of these two conditions has been met:
• The players have placed precisely 8 cards (no more, no fewer),
• The players have placed precisely 4 cards in total of the same animal 
(no more, no fewer),
…this triggers the racing phase!
If you did not trigger the racing phase, the next player clockwise (to 
your left) takes his turn.
Note: You are totally allowed to play cards depicting an animal that is 
already on the podium.
Note: You are never allowed to exceed the total of 8 cards, or the total of 4 
cards of the same animal. When it is your turn, you cannot place a 9th card, or 
a 5th Tortoise card, for example.

The racing phase
During this phase, the Animal pawns will advance (or not), depending 
on the cards the players placed during their turns. They will move 
according to each animal’s mode of travel, and always in the 
following order:
 
 
Note: The wolf’s howl scares the other animals even if he is already on the podium.
If 1 to 4 Hare cards were played, the hare advances 2 Track 
tiles.
... unless 4 Hare cards were played when the hare is already 
in first place (even just tied for first). In this case, he does not 
advance, because he takes a nap instead. However, ignore 
this rule if he’s still on the starting line.
If 0 to 3 Tortoise cards were played, the tortoise advances 
1 Track tile.
: 1
If 4 Tortoise cards were played, the tortoise advances 2 
Track tiles.
• 2 : 1
If 1 to 2 Wolf cards were played, the wolf advances 1 
Track tile.
4 : X - 1
If 3 to 4 Wolf cards were played, the wolf advances as many 
Track tiles as the number of Wolf cards played (X), minus 1.
Among the Wolf cards, there are 3 cards with a Howl 
symbol. If you place at least one of these cards faceup on 
your turn, then only the wolf will move during the next 
racing phase: The other animals are terrified by his howl, 
and can only think about finding a place to hide!
+

Example of a Racing Phase
4 Hare cards played = the racing phase has been triggered.
ng 
ve 
ack 
ady 
not 
nore 
ces 
s 2 
s 1 
any 
s 1.
owl 
on 
ext 
wl, 
4 : X
The fox advances as many Track tiles as the number of 
Fox cards played (X).
4 : X + 1
The lamb advances as many Track tiles as the number 
of Lamb cards played (X) plus 1.
However, the lamb can’t resist drinking fresh water, and must 
stop moving as soon as it reaches a Track tile depicting a 
stream.
0 : 1
: 1
2 : 3
but
thus
4 : 0
+

• It
is t
ani
Exa
too
he d
car
• If
sam
adv
star
• It
ma
• T
• S
you
freq
or p
clev
Pla
thre
Pla
pla
thre
Once you have taken care of all the movement, discard the played cards. 
Then pass the First Player token to the next player clockwise (to the left). 
That player starts a new turn.
end of the game
As soon as an animal crosses the finish line, immediately put its pawn 
on the highest rank still available on the podium.
The game is over as soon as 3 animals are present on the podium. Then 
everyone reveals their Bet cards.
Depending on their place on the podium, the animals give victory 
points as follows to the players who bet on them:
	
Each player adds up her points. Whoever has the highest score wins. 
If it is a tie, the animal that is higher on the podium is the tiebreaker. 
If it is still a tie, play again!
Example of Final Scoring
1st place : 5 points
2nd place : 3 points
3rd place : 2 points
1st place : 
2nd place : 
3rd place : 
Fred :
Sam :
Stephanie :
= 3 + 5 = 8 points
= 2 + 2 = 4 points
= 5 + 0 = 5 points

Li’l Tips and Tricks to Remember
• It’s possible that you end up having several turns before the racing phase 
is triggered. If this is the case, you can place Racing cards for a different 
animal each time, if you wish.
Example : On his first turn, Fred placed a Hare card. The other players 
took their turns without triggering the racing phase. On Fred’s next turn, 
he decides to place 2 Tortoise cards. The next player places 2 more Tortoise 
cards, which triggers the racing phase. Fred does not get a third turn.
• If the hare is first on the track, but there are other animals are on the 
same Track tile as him, the hare is still considered to be in first place. In 
these situations, if 4 Hare cards are played, the hare takes a nap instead of 
advancing during that racing phase. However, ignore this rule if he’s still on the 
starting line.
• It is possible to play Racing cards depicting an animal that has already 
made it to the podium. This allows you to refresh your hand.
• The effect of the wolf’s howl still applies even if the wolf is on the podium.
• Sometimes, you will feel like you are stuck, and can’t advance the animals 
you bet on. In order to prevent this, you must keep cycling your hand as 
frequently as possible, taking advantage of every opportunity to not help 
the other animals, such as playing their cards when the wolf has howled, 
or playing cards for the lamb who is right in front of the stream. Playing 
cleverly like this will help you get rid of troublesome cards, and replace 
them with more interesting ones.
Championship Mode
Play a series of three games (rounds) in a row, and add up the scores over the 
three games! At the end of the 1st and 2nd rounds, the player with the First 
Player token passes it clockwise to her left neighbor, who will be the first 
player in the new round. The player with the highest score at the end of the 
three rounds is declared the winner. If it is a tie, play again!
ds. 
ft). 
wn 
en 
ry 
ns. 
er. 
ts

Variant for Apprentice Hares and Tortoises
Setup
• Use only 13 Racing cards for each animal (leave out the Wolf cards with a Howl 
symbol). Shuffle them together to form the draw deck for the game.
• Build the track as specified in the normal rules.
• Place the Turbo tokens randomly on the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th, and 10th Track tiles.
• Deal each player 5 Racing cards from the deck, as well as a Starting Bet card (2 
Starting Bet cards in a 2 player game). Look at your cards, then place them face-
down in front of you.
• Place the Animal pawns on the starting line. The first player to say what time it is 
gets to go first. Give her the First Player token.
How to Play
The way you play a game turn, and the conditions for triggering the racing phase are the 
same as in the normal game. As soon as the racing phase is triggered (8 Racing cards 
total, or 4 identical Racing cards), move the Animal pawns:
Starting with the first player, then going clockwise, each player moves the animal of her 
choice, from among those whose Racing cards have been played during the turn. This is 
done until all the animals have moved.
An Animal pawn moves as many Track tiles as the number of cards of that animal 
that were played. All the animals move the same way, without any special rules.
Example:
Whenever as an Animal pawn finishes its movement on a tile with a Turbo token 
(+2 ) depicting the animal, this animal advances 2 extra Track tiles.
Once all the movement is done, discard the played cards. Then pass the First Player 
pawn to the next player clockwise (to the left). That player starts a new turn.
End of the game
If, at the end of a movement phase, one or more animals have crossed the finish 
line, put them on the podium in the order they finished, and the game is over. If 
there are still places empty on the podium, fill them with the animals on the track 
that are closest to the finish line. Ties are possible.
Count up the points the same way as in the normal game.
=