JOHAN BENVENUTO
FROM THE GAME DESIGNER: Thanks to the Libellud team for their outstanding work, especially Anouk, 
Valentin and Matthis, who saw the potential in this game. To Maëva, let me congratulate you again for 
your superb illustrations! The game would not be what it is without you. Thanks also to CAL members (an 
association of game designers from Lyon) for their recommendations during the tests. Don’t change a thing!
2024 CREDITS: Game Designer: Johan Benvenuto • Artwork: Maëva Da Silva • Project Manager: Anouk Girard-Dagnas • 
Development: Matthis Gaciarz, Valentin Gaudicheau, Oleksandr Nevskiy • Art Director: Maëva Da Silva • Layout and Functional 
Design: Thomas Dutertre • Graphic Design: Simon Hay • Production Manager: Stéphane Robert
The team is thankful to Mathieu, Marion, Quentin, Camille, Alexandra, Delphine, Lucas, Joéva, Maximilien, Paul, Dorine, 
Ophélie, Laurent, Clément, and all the others who helped develop this game.
Distribuit în România de: ADC Blackﬁre Entertainment SRL, Str. Daniel Danielopolu, nr. 4-6, 014134 Bucuresti, ROMÂNI 
contact@blackﬁre.ro www.asmodee.ro
GAME RULES
WATCH THE 
RULES VIDEO!

Johan
Maëva
NOTE: We recommend you play several games before using the Nature’s Spirit cards. 
Keep the corresponding cards and cubes in the box (see Nature’s Spirit Cards, p.10).
NOTE: For your ﬁrst few games, we recommend 
using Side A of the Personal boards.
SETUP
Place the Central board with 
the 2-4 Players side faceup.
Shufﬂe the Animal cards and place 5 cards faceup next to the Central board. 
Place the rest of the cards nearby as the draw pile, and place the Animal cubes
within reach of all players.
Each player takes a Personal board, and the players collectively 
decide which side of the board to use. All players must play with 
the same side faceup. Each player also takes a Reminder card, 
displaying the side matching the Personal boards.
I
The player to have last seen a 
magniﬁcent landscape is the ﬁrst 
player. Point the Central Board's 
arrow toward them.
In Harmonies, build Landscapes by 
placing colored tokens and create 
Habitats for your Animals. To earn 
the most points and win the game, 
incorporate 
the 
Habitats 
in 
your 
Landscapes wisely and have as many 
Animals as you can settle there.
GOAL
OF THE GAME
CONTENTS
1 Pouch
1 Central board
4 Personal boards
4 Reminder cards
120 Tokens
66 Animal cubes
4 Nature's Spirit cubes 
32 Animal cards
10 Nature’s Spirit cards 
1 Scoresheet pad
1 Rulebook
23 gray tokens
23 blue tokens
21 brown tokens
19 green tokens
19 yellow tokens
15 red tokens
D
G
E
H
F
I
J
C
Fill each of the 5 spaces 
of the Central board 
with 3 tokens you 
draw randomly 
from the Pouch.
Put all the tokens in 
the Pouch, then place 
the Pouch next to the 
Central board.
E
J
D
C
H
F
G

This action is optional. You can perform it anytime 
during your turn, but only once per turn. 
Starting with the ﬁrst player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player takes a turn by performing the following actions in the order of their choosing:
At the end of your turn, draw 3 tokens from the Pouch and reﬁll the Central 
board. Reﬁll the row of Animal cards if needed, 
so that there are 5 faceup cards.
You must perform this action exactly once during your turn.
Take 3 tokens from any one of the Central board spaces.
You must place these 3 tokens on your Personal board 
however you see ﬁt, following the rules below. After placing 
a token, you may perform optional actions before placing 
the next token.
Pauline takes 1 gray token, 1 brown 
token and 1 yellow token. She then 
places them on her 
Personal board.
Place the Animal cubes here until you can move them onto your Personal board.
Points
The pattern your tokens must form on your Personal board to create the Habitat.
A reminder of the token color on which the Animal cube must be placed.
The space on which the Animal cube must be placed within the Habitat.
GAME TURN
With this action you will place the various features that will form your Landscape.
Animals are represented by Animal cards. Each Animal card indicates the Habitat pattern 
you must form within your Landscape to be able to place your Animal.
These Animals can now be placed onto your Landscape 
(see Place 1 Animal Cube, p. 6).
1 Choose 1 Animal card from among the 5 faceup 
cards in the center of the table. Place that card above 
your Personal board. You may have up to 4 cards 
simultaneously above your Personal board.
2 Take as many Animal cubes from the reserve as 
there are spaces to be ﬁlled on your Animal card, and 
place 1 cube on each of these spaces.
NOTE: For your ﬁrst games, we recommend that you avoid having multiple Animal 
cards above your Personal board whose cubes are placed on the same color. The 
colored stripe on the side of the card is a reminder of that color, so try to choose 
Animals whose stripes are different colors.
HOW TO PLACE A TOKEN
ANIMAL CARD DESCRIPTION
• It can always be placed on an empty space.
• IIt can be placed on top of 1 or 2 previously placed tokens to 
create Trees, Buildings, or Mountains (as shown in the illustration 
to the right). No other stacking is allowed.
• It cannot be placed underneath previously placed tokens.
• It cannot be placed on a space occupied by an Animal cube 
(see Place 1 Animal Cube, p.6).
Buildings
Mountains
Fields
Trees
WATER

Pauline takes 3 tokens (2 gray and 1 red). She places 
1 1 , which allows her to place a Fennec Fox 2 .
Pauline places a second token 3 which allows her 
to place 2 additional Fennec Foxes 4 and 5 . The 
Fennec Fox card is now completed. She places it to the 
side of her Personal board 6 .
Pauline places the ﬁnal token she took this 
turn 7 , which allows her to place a Shrew 8 . The 
placement of the token and Shrew do not require 
the removal of the Fennec Fox 9 , as it was placed 
before the additional token was added. 
NOTE: A single token can be used as part of 
multiple Habitats.
NOTE: The placement of an Animal cube is 
ﬁnal, even if the pattern initially forming the 
Habitat is no longer on your Personal board. This 
can happen, for example, if a red token is placed 
on a grey token.
The Animals can settle in your Landscape once you have recreated their required Habitats.
The game ends in one of two ways:
END OF GAME
The Pouch is empty when you need to 
reﬁll the Central board. 
At the end of your turn, there are 2 or less 
unoccupied spaces on your Personal board.
If necessary, end the current round so that all players have played an equal number of turns. 
At the end of the game, tally the points for the Landscapes you created and the Animals you placed 
(see Tallying Points, pp. 8-9). 
The player with the most points wins the game!
In case of a tie, the player who has placed the most Animal cubes wins.
In the event of another tie, players share the victory.
This action is optional. You may perform it multiple times 
on your turn, at any time.
Placement requirements:
• The Habitat pattern must be created exactly on your 
Personal board as depicted on the card. However, it can be 
oriented in any direction (see Orientations p.7).
• The height of the Trees and Mountains must exactly 
match what is shown on the card.
• The token on which the Animal cube is to be placed 
within the Habitat must be unoccupied.
• Buildings can be of any type (i.e., the bottom token can be 
either red, brown or gray).
If these requirements are fulﬁlled, take the bottom-
most cube from the Animal card and place it on the 
corresponding token within the Habitat on your Personal 
board.
Once the ﬁnal cube on an Animal card has been placed, 
put that card next to your Personal board. It is considered 
complete and no longer counts against your 4-card limit.
At the end of the game, each Animal card earns you victory 
points (see Tallying points, pp. 8-9).
Orientations
Combinations

A Building is made of 1 red token, 
placed on top of 1 brown, gray, 
or red token.
You score 5 points for each Building, but 
only if surrounded by at least 3 tokens 
of different colors (out of the 6 available, 
including red). Only consider the top 
token on each adjacent space.
If this criteria is not met, a Building is 
worth 0 points.
A Mountain is a stack made of 1, 2, or 3 
gray tokens.
The height of each Mountain determines 
the number of points you score. 
However, a Mountain is worth 0 points 
if it is not adjacent to another Mountain.
A Field is formed by at least 2 yellow 
tokens in a contiguous group.
You score 5 points for each Field formed 
by 2 or more contiguous yellow tokens. 
To maximize your scoring, you should 
create small groups separated from 
each other. For example, if your Field 
is formed by 4 or more contiguous 
tokens, it only counts as a single Field 
and is only worth 5 points.
A Tree is formed by 1 green token, 
placed on top of 0, 1, or 2 brown tokens 
to create Trees of size 1, 2, or 3.
A River is a string of consecutive blue tokens.
If using Side B of the Personal board, the blue tokens are 
scored differently. Each space or group of spaces separated 
from each other by blue tokens forms an Island.
The height of each Tree determines the 
number of points you score.
The length of the River determines the number of points you 
earn. Count the number of tokens from one end of the river 
to the other by the shortest path (ends included).
You only score your best river. If the river's path contains 
more than 6 consecutive tokens, score 4 points for each 
token beyond the 6th.
You score 5 points for each island.
Total Animals = 63
Total Landscapes = 53
At the end of the game, Pauline scores 53 points for the Landscapes she 
created and 63 points for the Animals she placed, for a total of 116 points.
TALLYING POINTS
NOTE: You always have at least 1 island, even if you 
don’t create any separation using blue tokens.
BUILDINGS
MOUNTAINS
FIELDS
TREES
WATER - SIDE A: THE RIVER
WATER - SIDE B: THE ISLANDS
ANIMAL CARDS
For 
each 
Animal 
card, 
whether 
completed or not, you score the number 
of points indicated in the topmost space 
without an Animal cube.
A card with all cubes still on it is worth 
0 points. There is no penalty for not 
removing all cubes from an Animal card, 
other than it being worth fewer points.
Johan has created 
4 islands.
Therefore, he scores 
20 points.
Not part of the 
shortest path.
1216
53 63
Joh
2-
3+
3+

Shufﬂe the Nature’s Spirit cards and 
deal 2 to each player, facedown. On 
your ﬁrst turn, you look at these 2 
cards, then choose 1 and place it 
faceup above your Personal board, 
returning the other to the box. Then 
place a Nature’s Spirit cube on the 
chosen card. Nature’s Spirit cubes 
follow the same placement rules as 
the Animal cubes.
Nature’s Spirit cards are treated just 
like Animal cards: you will score points 
if you place the Nature’s Spirit cube 
on your Personal board, and you are 
not penalized if you don’t. However, 
the points scored by a Nature’s Spirit 
card are not tallied until the end 
of the game, and are based on the 
Landscapes you created.
Refer to the rule indicated on the 
card to determine its value in points. 
Some 
of 
these 
Nature’s 
Spirits 
cards will reward you for Landscape 
combinations you might not have 
looked for otherwise!
Your Nature’s Spirit card counts 
towards your 4-card limit until it is 
completed by placing its Nature’s 
Spirit cube on your Personal board.
Pauline has this Nature’s Spirit card and managed 
to place the cube on her Personal board. At the 
end of the game, this card earns her 2 points for 
each group of 1 or 2 yellow tokens and 10 points 
for each group of 3 or more yellow tokens, giving 
her 2 + 2 + 10 = 14 additional points.
Example: Pauline scored 130 points ( 5
) while using 
side A of the Personal board ( +1
) with the Lion’s Spirit 
( +1
). Thus, she earned 
, Not bad!
You can play solo to discover the game, practice, or simply try 
to beat your highest score! To play alone, 
the following changes are necessary:
Place the Central board with the Solo side faceup, which 
only has 3 spaces. Place only 3 Animal cards faceup near the 
Central board.
For example, with this Nature’s Spirit, you 
score 4 points for each Mountain of height 2 
and 4 points for each Mountain of height 3 
on your Personal board (isolated Mountains 
included). This is in addition to the normal 
points scored for Mountains.
For example, with this Nature’s Spirit, you score 2 
points for each group of 1 or 2 yellow tokens and 10 
points for each group of 3 or more yellow tokens 
on your Personal board, in addition to the normal 
points scored for Fields.
NOTE: Points from a Nature’s Spirit card are scored just like Animal cards, 
and are in addition to all other points scored elsewhere.
After you have played several games, you can use Nature’s Spirit cards to enjoy a richer game experience!
Set up
Setup
Game turn
End of game
Game turn
The number of Landscapes 
on your Personal board. 
The groups of connected Landscapes on 
your Personal board. An isolated Landscape is 
considered a group of size 1.
Some Nature’s Spirit cards earn you points based on: 
SOLO MODE
At the end of each turn:
 • Return the remaining 6 tokens to the box (they are discarded 
and are not returned to the Pouch), then reﬁll each of the 
3 spaces with 3 tokens.
• If you did not take an Animal card on this turn, you may discard 
1 Animal card from the center of the table and replace it with the 
top card from the draw pile.
All other rules remain unchanged.
When playing solo mode, your goal is to earn as many suns 
 
as possible, representing your level of success during the game. 
The number of 
 obtained depends primarily on your score, 
but is also inﬂuenced by the side of the Personal board used, as 
well as the Nature’s Spirit you chose at the start of the game. Try 
to beat your high score in each conﬁguration.
score
face
NATURE’S SPIRIT
x
NATURE'S SPIRIT CARDS
53 77

Actions are performed in any order.
Optional actions may be performed between the placement of 2 tokens.
Once per turn.
• Can be placed on an empty space.
• Never underneath previously placed token(s).
• Never underneath or on top of an Animal cube.
• Can be stacked only if you comply with the stacking 
rules, as shown to the right.
• There are no tokens left in the Pouch to reﬁll the Central board.
• At least one player has 2 or fewer empty spaces on their Personal board.
Play until all players have had an equal number of turns.
Once per turn.
• Immediately take enough cubes to cover each spot on 
the right side of the card.
• May have a maximum of 4 cards above your Personal 
board at any time.
• Recommendation: Avoid having several cards above 
your Personal board of the same color at the same 
time.
Unlimited.
• Habitat pattern may be in any orientation. 
• Must comply with the Tree and Mountain height 
requirements shown in the pattern.
• No more than 1 cube per space.
• A token may be part of several (identical or different) 
Habitats.
• Each cube placement is ﬁnal, even if the Habitat used for 
its placement is no longer on your Personal board.
GAME TURN
PLAYER AID
END OF GAME
End of game turn:
• Reﬁll the Central board.
• Reﬁll the row of Animal cards so there are 5 cards faceup, if needed.