Rulebook

Game by Reinhard STAUPE
Illustrated by Ian PAROVEL
Translated by Nicole CECOTKA
Overview and Goal of the Game:
¡Bienvenidos a La Habana! Welcome to Havana! You are here to help construct Cuba’s 
capital, to make it into the dazzling city it is today. Use your action cards to collect 
construction materials, rubble, pesos and workers. Use these resources to build the 
most beautiful buildings and gain prestige. Watch out for thieves who may try to get in 
your way!
To win, you must be the first player to earn the minimum amount of prestige points 
(PP): 25 PP for 2 players, 20 PP for 3 players and 15 PP for 4 players. 
Components:
80 wooden bricks: Bricks refer to both building materials (different coloured bricks) 
and rubble (grey bricks). 
In the box, there are four sets of 10 bricks, each represented by a different colour, and 
40 grey rubble bricks. 
- 89 cards : 4 sets of 13 action cards (1 set per player), 36 structure cards and 1 supply 
reminder card.
- 15 workers tokens
- 60 peso coins.
- 1 burlap bag.

Structure cards
To simplify, the term “structure” refers to these cards, and they can represent a buil­
ding, a road, a statue, etc.
Supply reminder card
Front - Plan
Back - Structure built 
Resources needed to build it.
PP earned from building 
this structure.

SET UP:
Each person has 13 action cards with identical backs + 1 peso + 1 grey rubble brick. 
The rest of the bricks, construction materials and pieces of rubble, are mixed up in the 
bag. 
Make a pile of pesos on one side of the table and a pile of workers on the other. Make 
sure all players can easily access them. 
Shuffle the structure cards and make a pile with the front side facing up, then make 2 
rows of 6 structure cards, also front face up. 
Note: When the cards are all laid out, make sure that there is at least one structure 
worth 1, 2 or 3 PP at one of the four ends.
Finally, place the supply reminder card at the center of the table placing 3 pesos + 3 
bricks taken randomly from the bag on top of it. 
Players may start the game.

Turn summary:
In the first round, each person takes 2 action cards from their hand and places them 
face down in front of them. Once everyone has chosen and placed down their 2 action 
cards, they can be revealed.
From now on, each turn will be broken down as follows until the end of the game: 
Phase 1: Initiative --> Phase 2: Buildings and actions --> 
Phase 3: Supply --> Phase 4: Replacement.
Phase 1: initiative
In La Habana, the play order varies each turn. Players go in order, from lowest to 
highest initiative.
During this turn, your initiative is determined by the numbers indicated on the action 
cards you play. Place the card with the smallest number on the left to form the 
smallest possible number when combining the numbers on the two cards.
Raphael plays the following cards: [6 and 5]. He 
places the lower number (5) on the left to get 56.
Yolaine plays the following cards: [2 and 4]. She 
places the lowest number (2) on the left to get 24.
Ian plays the following cards: [7 and 5]. He places the 
lowest number (5) on the left to get 57.
So Yolaine will go first for this turn since she had the lowest initiative number (24), then 
Raphael (56) and lastly Ian (57).

If multiple people have the same initiative, the person with the least PP will start, 
followed by the lowest number of construction materials, the lowest number of pesos, 
the lower number of workers, and lastly the lowest number of rubble pieces. If all these 
are the same, the youngest player goes first. 
Therefore, the cards chosen allow you to perform 2 different actions on your turn and 
they also determine your initiative. Will you play your cards for their action and/or their 
initiative? 
Phase 2: Construction and Actions
After using the initiative to determine the order of play for that round, 
play your 2 action cards in the order of your choice. The complete 
description for the 13 different actions is found at the end of this rulebook. 
After having performed your two actions, you can build as many structures as you 
want. To do this, you must pay the construction cost indicated on the card and place it 
in front of you, back side up, and you gain its PP. 
You can only construct the structures at the end of each row! When a structure is 
built, it frees up the next building which can be built right away. However, you do not 
need to only build the structures at the end of the same row. As long as the structure 
you want is at either end of a row you can build it, regardless of which end or row it is in.

After any construction, if there are only 2 structures left in the row, draw 4 new 
structures from the deck and place them face up between the two remaining structures 
which become the new ends for this row. 
The construction materials and rubble used to construct the structures are 
discarded back into the game’s box while the pesos and workers are returned to the 
reserve.
Like in real life, materials are used up for the structures they were used to construct, 
while money and workers can be used again for later construction. 
« 5 for 1 » rule:
On your turn, during the construction of a structure you can spend:
-5 pesos instead of 1 worker (but never 1 worker for 5 pesos!)
-5 rubble pieces instead of 1 construction material (but never 1 construction material 
for 5 rubble pieces!)
These conversions can be done multiple times during your turn. 
Once you have finished your turn (completed your 2 actions and eventually constructed 
something), the next player in the initiative order will go. 
Once everyone has completed their turn, move on to the supply phase. 

Phase 3: Supply
Regardless of whether pesos and/or bricks have been taken on this turn, always place 
down 3 pesos + 3 bricks randomly taken from the bag at the center of the table 
during this phase. 
Phase 4: Replacement
For the next phase in the game, you must keep 1 of the action cards from this round, 
meaning you will perform this action again, and replace the other card with 1 new 
action card that you will play. 
Keeping with the initiative order for this round, each person must choose 1 action 
card in their hand, place it face down in front of them and discard the old action card 
(the one that will not be played again) in their personal discard pile, also face down. 

It means that the other players know one action you will perform on the next turn and 
also have an idea of your next initiative!
Once everyone has played 1 of their action cards, simultaneously reveal and use the 
new chosen action cards. 
Note: after revealing your new action card, if you only have 2 action cards in your hand, 
take all the cards from your discard pile back into your hand. 
Then go back to Phase 1 to determine the initiative order for the new round. 
Ending the Game:
The game ends immediately as soon as someone reaches a minimum of:
-25 PP for 2 players,
-20 PP for 3 players,
-15 PP for 4 players.
Hence the importance of having action cards with lower numbers towards the end of the 
game to gain advantage of the initiative order to be able to pull the rug out from under 
your opponent’s feet and play before them. 
Note: In the rare case that all the structures are built or all the bricks are used 
(discarded in the game box), the game ends immediately. In this case, the player with the 
most PP wins. 

Description of Action Cards:
0- No effect. But allows players to play earlier in the game 
by lowering your score during the initiative calculation.
1 - You are protected from all other players. 
No one can steal or take your resources.
2 - Take 1 peso from the reserve. 
2 - Discard 1 action card from your hand and 
take 1 action card from your discard pile. 
Show this card to the other players. 
3 - You are allowed to get rid of 1 structure of 
your choice at the end of a row and put it in the game box. 
This action can be done once per round maximum, 
regardless of how many players chose this action this round. 
3 - Take all the rubble pieces 
in the center of the table.
4 - If you are the first player to perform 
this action for this turn, take 2 workers 
from the reserve. If not, take only 1 worker.

4 -Take 1 worker from the reserve. This card is mandatory to 
construct structures that have this symbol next to their construction costs.
However, contrary to spent resources (bricks, pesos and workers), 
this card is not a resource and is not discarded after use. 
Like in the real world, knowledge cannot be spent. 
 
 5 - Steal 2 pesos from another player going after you. 
If this player has at least 6 pesos, steal 3 pesos instead.
6 - Steal 1 brick from another player going after you. 
If this player has at least 4 construction materials, 
steal 2 bricks instead. 
7 - If you are the first player to perform this 
action for this turn, pick 2 bricks at random or choose 1 in the bag. 
If not, pick 1 brick randomly from the bag. 
8- Take half of the pesos from the center of the table. 
Round up the number. 
9- Take half of the construction materials and half of the rubble, 
rounding up for both, from the center of the table.

Published par IGIARI
14 Allée des Goémons
56340 CARNAC
© 2024 IGIARI
All rights reserved
www.igiari.com