The players live on this well-known island in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.
The main island is well-populated and everyone follows his own business.
Fishermen fish, surfers surf, dancers dance, and the fruits grow… 
Also the surrounding islands look very beautiful from the main island
and offer many interesting places to visit.
As chieftains, the players have been granted land by the island‘s king. Now they must 
prove their value by making their own realms prosper. They build huts and temples, plant 
fruits, catch fish, support the arts of dancers and surfers, seek out kahunas and acquire 
tikis. The player who finds the best combinations will be declared the most valuable 
chieftain and win the game.
for 2 - 5 players, aged 13 and up,
60 - 90 minutes
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 1
11/15/11 12:06 PM

Game setup
Contents:
	 1	 board frame and scoring 
track in 6 puzzle pieces
	 10	 large rectangular places
	 5	 round indicators
	 1	 bag
	 25	 price tokens (values 2-6)
	 10	 islands
	126	 place tiles
	 31	 wooden shells
	
	 20 small (value 1) and 
11 large (value 5)
	 35	 wooden feet
	
	 30 small (value 1) and 
5 large (value 5)
	 22	 wooden fruits
	
	 20 small (value 1) and 
2 large (value 5)
	 5	 50/100 scoring tiles
And, in the 5 player colors:
	 5	 player boards
	 5	 player screens
	 5	 fishing boats
	 5	 chieftains
	 10	 sub-chiefs 
1. The players assemble the 
6 puzzle sections to create the 
board frame. Then shuffle the 
10 large rectangular places 
face-down and put them face-up 
within the frame, beginning on 
the lower left, moving to the right 
and then doing the same for each 
row above, in order, aligning all 
with the beach. See figure to the 
right for a possible configuration.
7. The players choose a player to 
be banker. He puts all price tokens 
in the bag and mixes them well. 
Then he lays the price tokens out as 
described on the next page.
5. Now, each player puts 
his 2nd sub-chief into the 
bag. Next, a player draws a 
random sub-chief from the 
bag and places it on space 
1 of the player sequence 
track. He continues to draw 
from the bag, placing the 
drawn sub-chiefs in order on 
the player sequence track. 
This indicates the player 
order for the round. It will 
be adjusted when necessary 
to show player order 
throughout the game.
6. The players choose one player to be the supply manager for the shells, 
feet, and fruits. He places these near him and will be responsible for 
distributing them throughout the game. 
Then, he distributes the starting resources to the players. 
To do so, he turns over the top-most round indicator and 
distributes the items shown to the right: 13 7
	
	
	
	
	
	
 shells feet
In addition, he gives 2 green fruits to the player whose 
sub-chief is on space 2 of the player order track, 3 fruits to the player 
on space 3, 4 fruits to the player on space 4, and 5 fruits to the player on 
space 5. The player on space 1 gets no fruits!
2nd player:	
 fruits	
	
3rd player:
4th player:	
	
	
	
5th player:
The players put and keep their resources behind their screens.
Afterwards, the supply manager turns the round indicator 
to its front side. Note: the front does not match the back!
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 2
11/15/11 12:06 PM

2. Now put the 126 place tiles on the places. Most 
place tiles have different front and rear sides. The 
fronts have a I in the upper left corners, the rear sides 
have a II in the upper left corners.
front side	
	
	
back side
(side I)	 	
	
	
(side II)
Stack the place tiles face-up (side I) on the places 
matching the illustrations on the place tiles.
5 shell huts
5 foot huts
5 spear huts
5 trade huts
5 long huts
5 irrigation
10 hula dancers
16 fruits (4 each breadfruit, 
taro, coconut, and banana)
8 boats
10 surfers
25 kahunas
15 tikis
Shuffle the God tiles and place 
them in two equal stacks.
The place tiles are described in detail in the supplement.
3. Each player selects a color and takes a screen, player board, 1 fishing 
boat, the chieftain, and 2 sub-chiefs in his color. The player places the screen 
and the player board in the area near him (his play area/realm)
He puts the fishing boat on the water side of his player board.
He puts a sub-chief on space 0 of the scoring track.
He puts the chieftain on the beach.
He puts the 2nd sub-chief in his play area.
4. The players shuffle the islands and put 
them as a face-down stack near the beach 
as shown. Then they draw 4 islands and put 
them face up next to the 4 docks. 
The players sort the round indicators by the 
value shown on the turtle shell and stack 
them face up on the space provided on the 
beach, in order, with the 17 on the bottom 
and the 9 on top.
n 
Lay out the kahunas 
and the tikis in 2 
roughly equal stacks,
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 3
11/15/11 12:07 PM

Lay out the price tokens (These determine how much the place tiles cost.)
•	Each place has 1, 2, or 3 purchase circles on which the banker puts the price tokens. One circle in each place is 
pre-printed with a number between 5 and 12. In addition, each place has 0-2 un-printed circles.
•	Beginning at the lower left of the board, the banker puts price tokens on each empty circle on the 10 places. 
 
The banker does the following, for each place:
•	The banker draws 1 price token from the bag for each un-printed purchase circle and puts this with the 
numbered side up on the un-printed purchase circles. When putting the tokens on the un-printed circles, the 
banker takes no special note of the different colored tokens (orange/red with spears). Places with only one 
purchase circle do not have un-printed purchase circles and, thus, the banker will put no tokens there.
Example of a place with 3 purchase circles: 
the banker draws 2 price token from the bags and 
puts them on the un-printed circles with the numbered 
side up. The order is unimportant.
•	Next, he draws 1 additional price token from the bag for the pre-printed purchase circle.
•	Next, he adds the numbers on all the price tokens he has drawn for this place.
•	If the total of the price tokens is equal to or lower than the number on the pre-printed purchase 
circle, then he puts the drawn price token on it.
The sum of the three price tokens (3+5+3=11) is 
smaller than the pre-printed number on the price 
circle (12). He puts the token on the 12.
•	If the sum of the price tokens is higher than the pre-printed number, he puts the drawn price token, with the 
fish side up, on the cove. The pre-printed purchase circle remains uncovered in this round.
•	Even if the number on the pre-printed purchase circle is equal to the price token(s) the banker put on the un-
printed circle(s), he still draws a price token and places it fish side up on the cove.
Example: the sum of the three 
price tokens (3+5+6=14)
is larger than the number 
pre-printed on the price circle 
(12). The banker puts the last drawn price token fish side 
up on the cove. The pre-printed circle remains empty.
Example for a place with 2 purchase circles: the sum of 
the price tokens (4+5=9) is larger than the number pre-
printed on the price circle (6). The banker puts the last 
drawn price token fish side up on the beach. The pre-
printed circle remains empty.
Example for a place with 1 purchase circle: this place has 
no un-printed purchase circles and the banker drew only one 
price token. If the price token drawn is less than or equal 
to 5, the banker places the price token on the pre-printed 
purchase circle. If the number on the price token is 6, 
the banker puts it fish side up on the cove and the pre-
printed circle remains empty.
1 purchase circle
2 purchase circles
3 purchase circles
un-printed
pre-printed
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 4
11/15/11 12:07 PM

•	After all places have been filled with tokens in 
this way, the player draws more price tokens from 
the bag: 1 fewer than the number of players in 
the game. He puts the price token with the lowest 
number on the circle under the 2 on the beach. He 
puts the next higher price token on the circle under 
the 3, and so on. If 2 tokens have the same number, 
the one (if any) with the spear is consider higher. 
Thus, there is a price token under each sub-chief, 
except on the 1.
Now the preparation is complete and the game can begin.
Overview
The players develop their realms in the course of the game. They establish up to 5 villages, build boats in 
order to trade, train kahunas, and honor the Gods. Although the players score points during the game, the 
winner is not known until the final scoring. 
The game is played over 5 rounds. Each round consists of the following 2 phases:
	
I.	 The turn of the chieftains
	 II.	 End of the round
After the 5th round, the final scoring occurs and the winner is determined!
I. The turn of the chieftains
The players move their chieftains from place to place in order to buy place tiles. They can also move their 
chieftains to the beach in order to fish, to visit islands, or end their turns.
The player whose sub-chief is on space 1 of the player sequence track, begins. The other players follow in 
order based on their positions on the player sequence tracks: 2, 3, and so on. 
Note: thus, Hawaii is not played in clockwise order!
When all players have moved their chieftains once, the players move them again 
beginning with the player whose sub-chief is on space 1 of the player sequence track. 
This continues until no player can or wants to move his chieftain. Then the phase of 
the chieftains ends and the round end phase begins.
How do players move their chieftains?
The player can move his chieftain from the beach to a place, from a place to another place, from a place to 
the beach, or not move his chieftain, leaving him where he is. When moving their chieftains, the players 
follow these rules:
•	The chieftains begin each round on the beach.
•	1 step from the beach to a neighboring place costs 1 foot.
•	1 step from a place to a neighboring place also costs 1 foot. The chieftain can cross several places in his 
move before stopping. Each step (from place to place) also costs 1 foot. If the chieftain does not move, but 
remains where he is, that also costs 1 foot.
•	If the chieftain moves from any place to the beach, that does not cost 
anything! Likewise, it costs nothing to move the chieftain from one 
space on the beach to a different space on the beach or for him to leave 
his chieftain on the same space on the beach.
Example for 4 players
(with fewer than 5 players, 
remaining price tokens stay 
in the bag)
remains 
empty
Only the two lower places are 
neighboring to the beach.
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 5

The places a player may move his chieftain
•	On each of the 10 places with 1 or more place tiles and 1-3 price tokens at the start of the round. 
Note: it is possible for places with 1 purchase circle to have no price tokens at the start of the round.
•	A player can move his chieftain only to a place which has at least 1 place tile and at least 1 price token. If 
both are not on a place, the player may not move his chieftain there, but may move across the place.
•	A player can leave his chieftain on a place where he already stands only if there is at least 1 price token still 
there. 
•	When a player moves his chieftain to a place (or leaves it in a place where it was), he must buy a place tile 
from that place.
•	A chieftain of another player does not prevent a chieftain from crossing a place or moving to a place as long 
as there is at least 1 price token in the place the chieftain stops.
The purchase of place tiles
•	A player who moves his chieftain to a place must choose one of the place tiles there to buy. If only 1 type is 
there, he must buy this one. If there are 2 types there, he can choose freely from those 2. He may buy only 1 
place tile per turn.
•	Then he must pay for the chosen tile. To do so, he selects one of the price tokens in that place and puts it 
face-up in his play area. He next pays the amount shown on the selected price token in shells by moving the 
shown number of shells from his play area to the general supply. The price token remains in his play area 
and will play a further role at the end of the round. 
•	Finally, he takes the tile he has chosen and puts it in his play area. Where he puts it is described in the rules 
in the supplement.
Red chooses to build 1 exchange hut. He takes the last price token from this 
place, pays the 3 shells shown on it, and puts the price token in his play area. 
Next, he takes the exchange hut and adds it (according to the rules) to his 
realm.
The red chieftain may cross the place with the long hut to 
the place with the spear and the exchange huts since there 
is still a price token there.
x
The red chieftain may not move to the 
place with the long hut since no more 
price tokens are there.
2 steps cost 
2 feet
diagonal moves 
are allowed
the move back to the 
beach costs nothing
remaining in a 
place costs 1 foot
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 6

•	The player can choose to pay either the amount shown on the price token or double that amount. If he pays 
the amount shown, he puts the place tile in his realm with side I showing. If he pays the double amount, 
he puts the place tile in his realm with side II showing. As the kahuna and tikis have no side I or II, if the 
player pays the amount shown, he takes and puts 1 tile; if he pays double, he takes and puts 2 tiles.
•	The player places the price token in his play area face-up whether he pays the amount shown or double.
Other rules for buying and putting place tiles
•	The player must be able to immediately and legally put the chosen place tile into his realm. If he cannot do 
that, he cannot choose to buy it. The rules are given in the descriptions in the supplement.
•	Once a player has put a place tile in his realm, he may not later move it or turn it over to its other side (e.g. 
from side I to side II).
•	Each row represents a village. During the final scoring, only villages that are long enough to reach the 
player’s row of tikis will score points for the player.
•	Note: for more information on all the place tiles and the rules for buying and putting them, please refer to 
their desciptions in the rule supplement. 
The beach and what a chieftain can do there
The beach has 3 spaces, which the chieftain can visit (one in each turn):
1. The fishing cove, where the chieftain can fish.
2. The docks, from which the chieftain can visit the 4 islands.
3. The player sequence track (5 spaces) and the round indicators.
Note: for everything that a chieftain does at the fishing cove or at the docks, 
the player must pay with feet 
instead of shells 
. 
In general: the place tiles are paid with shells. 
The chieftain movement is paid with feet. 
Fish and island visits are paid with feet.
The use of fruits is explained in the rule supplement.
Red pays 3 shells and 
puts the exchange hut with 
side I showing in his realm.
Red pays 6 shells and
puts the exchange hut with 
side II showing in his realm.
fishing cove
docks
player 
sequence 
track
round 
indicator
x
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 7

1. The fishing cove
•	If the player wants to fish, he moves his chieftain to the fishing cove and takes 1 or more of the fish tokens 
that are there (remember, these have the numbers face-down). He puts the fish tokens with the fish side up in 
his play area. Like the price tokens, the fish tokens play a role at the end of the round.
•	For each fish token the player takes, he pays 1 foot, regardless of the quantity of fish or the number on the 
underside of the token. Also, the player must use one of his unused boat spaces for each token he takes. 
Afterwards he turns the used boat(s) as shown below to indicate they cannot be used again this round.
 
Example: Red moves his chieftain to the fishing cove and takes 
the token with the 3 fish on it, puts it in his play area, pays 1 
foot to the general supply, and turns his boat to show it is used. 
He cannot use it again in this round. (On his boat, he has 2 
empty spaces and could have taken a second fish token (with 1 
fish), but would have had to pay 1 foot for the second token.)
2. The docks for the 4 islands (island visit)
•	If the player wants to visit an island, he moves his chieftain to the island dock of his choice. Then, the 
player immediately moves his sub-chief on the scoring track to record the points indicated.
•	Then the player takes what is shown on the island (place tiles or points).
•	Next, the player must pay for the island visit with feet. The cost (in feet) is shown on the chosen dock. 
Additionally, he needs 1 or more boats to accommodate the feet shown. If a player has too few feet or not 
enough space on his available boats, he cannot move his chieftain to this dock!
 
 
•	The player returns the visited island face-up under the island stack.
•	If the player cannot put the place tile that is shown into his realm, or if there are no more place tiles of the 
kind shown available, he scores only the points on the dock for the island visit.
Example: Red moves his chieftain to the 2nd dock. He 
immediately scores 3 points, which he records by moving his 
sub-chief on the scoring track.
A hula dancer is shown on the island. Red 
takes a hula dancer token and places it in his 
realm as shown.
Red pays 4 feet from his play area to the general 
supply. Then he turns his boats as shown. The boats 
have spaces for 5 feet, but the player launches with 
just 4 feet (wasting 1 space). The player cannot use 
them again in this round.
When face-up islands appear in the island stack, 
shuffle the entire stack face-down to create a new 
island stack. (See also page 10)
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 8

3. The player sequence track and the round indicators
•	When a player cannot or chooses not to buy anything else, he places his chieftain under the player sequence 
track on the empty space (no other chieftain) of his choice. He takes the price token there (except with 
space 1, where there is none) and puts it in his play area with any others he collected this round. Thus, he 
ends his participation in the round and can no longer move or use his chieftain this round. All other players 
who have not yet placed their chieftains under the player sequence track continue to take their turns as they 
have during the round. When all the chieftains are there, the phase of the chieftains of this round ends.
•	The round indicator remains in place, as it is needed for the second phase of the round.
Example: Red places his chieftain under space 2 of the player 
sequence track. He takes the price token there and puts it in his 
play area with any others he collected this round. In the next 
round, the player will be second in player sequence.
II. End of the round
At the end of each round players score points, recording them by moving their sub-chiefs on the scoring 
track. Then, all players take new shells, feet, and fruits.
•	For the end of the round scoring, each player adds the numbers on all his price and fish tokens. All players 
compare their sums with the large number (required to keep people in the player’s realm happy) on the 
round indicator. If a player’s sum is smaller than the large number, the player does not score any points. If 
the player’s sum is equal to or larger than the large number, the player scores points as described below.
•	The player with the highest sum scores the points shown on the round indicator under the 1. The player 
with the second highest sum scores the points under the 2. All players who do not have the highest or 
second highest sum, but have a sum at least as high as the large number, score the points shown under the 
 . If several players tie for the highest sum, each scores the points shown under the 1. All other players 
whose sum is at least as high as the large number, score the points shown under the . If there is just one 
player with the highest sum (he scores the points under the 1) and several with the second highest sum, 
those with the second highest sums all score the number under the 2. 
Examples of the points scored at 
the end the 1st round:
	
	
	
 = 14		
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 = 9	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 = 10
	
	
 = 8	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 = 9
Red, Green and Blue had sums of their price 
and fish tokens equal to or greater than the large 
number (9). 
These players score points as show below:
Red has the highest sum with 14 and scores 8 
points as the first player. 
Green is second with 11 and scores 5 points.
Blue scores 2 points.
Yellow has a sum less than 9 and scores no points. 
All players had sums of their price and fish tokens 
equal to or greater than the large number (9). 
All players score points as show below:
Red and Green tie for the most with sums of 11 and 
each scores 8 points.
Because there was a tie for first, the second player 
points are bypassed, so no player scores 5 points.
Blue and Yellow each score 2 points for having 
sums equal to or greater than 9, but not finishing 
first or second. It matters not that Blue has a higher 
sum than Yellow.
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 9

•	After the scoring, the supply manager distributes new shells, feet, and fruits to the players. 
•	How many each player gets is shown on the round indicator. 
The round indicator depicts a man carrying a shell and a foot, each with a number. That is how many shells 
and feet the supply manager gives to each player. In addition, he gives players extra shells and/or feet when 
they have special place tiles that award them extras at the end of the round.
•	The supply manager gives fruits to players who have place tiles that award them fruits at the end of the 
round, giving them the number shown on those tiles. Players without such place tiles will receive no fruits 
at the end of the round.
	
	
Red	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Blue
Both players receive the basic supply 
 	
of 10 shells and 6 feet.
Players with place tiles showing shells, feet, or fruits, receive these at the end of each round (exception: fifth 
round) in addition to the basic allotment of resources.
Players should note that the basic allotment of resources decreases from round to round!
•	Afterwards, the supply manager puts the top-most round indicator back into the box.
•	The banker arranges the sub-chiefs above the player sequence track exactly according to the order of the 
chieftains who are under it. They indicate the player sequence for the next round. Then each player places 
his chieftain back on the beach.
•	The banker puts all price and fish tokens back into the bag. Then he puts them out again in the same manner 
as described on page 4.
•	Players move any islands remaining next to the docks to the left and draw new islands from the stack to 
fill any empty spaces. If no islands were visited in the 
previous round, the current set of islands remains in 
place. 
As before, if face-up islands appear, shuffle the islands 
in the stack and place them face-down as a new stack.
The next round begins with the turn of the chieftains. The player whose sub-chief is on space 1 of the player 
sequence track begins and the others follow in player sequence order. 
At the end the fifth round, players execute the scoring, skip the preparation for the next round and move 
directly to the final scoring. 
Before describing the final scoring, we offer a complete first round from the perspective of the Red player. 
We recommend players first read the rule supplement.
Example: move the island at the third dock onto 
the second dock. Then, the players put islands 
from the stack onto the now-empty third and 
fourth docks.
Red receives 2 additional shells, as he has a 
shell hut and the God Kane.
Blue receives, in addition, 2 fruits, as 
he has a fruit tile with 2 fruits.
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 10

Example of a first round:
Red moves his chieftain from the 
beach to the place with the long hut. 
He pays 1 foot for the move. 
Then he takes the price token 
and places it in his play area. He 
pays the double amount , 
 
of 4 shells. Then he takes the long hut 
and puts it with side II showing into 
his realm.
Green, Blue and Yellow take their turns based on their positions on the player sequence track. Then, it is 
again Red‘s turn. 
(In this example, we describe the turns of the red player only.)
Red moves from the long hut to the shell and foot huts. The move costs 1 foot. He 
wants a shell hut. He takes the price token with the 3 and pays the 3 shells. He puts 
the shell hut into his realm.
From there, Red moves to the place of the Gods. The move costs 2 feet. He 
decides to take the God KANE and puts it into its realm. He takes the price 
token with the 5 and pays the 5 shells. He takes the Kane tile and puts it in his 
realm.
Red moves back to the beach. He puts his chieftain under space 2 of the player 
sequence track. He pays nothing for the move. He takes the price token with the 3. He 
pays nothing to take the price token. He, thus, ends this phase of the round for himself. 
In the next round, Red will be second in player sequence order.
End of the round phase: Red sums his price tokens and has a sum of 13. 
Thus, he scores points at the end of the round; the number will depend on the price and 
fish tokens sums of the other players. 
He keeps his remaining shells and feet for the next rounds behind his screen.
At the end of the 5th round, the player who places his chieftain in the first position on the player-sequence 
track is awarded a bonus of 2 VP when calculating the end-of-round scoring.
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 11

The final scoring (after the 5th round):
Please have the rule supplement nearby.
The following place tiles are scored: the kahunas, the Gods KANAOLA and LAKA, the irrigation systems, 
the hula dancers, and the long huts side II. A kahuna, an irrigation system, a hula dancer and a long hut side 
II only score points in the village in which they are located. The two Gods score points regardless of which 
village they are in. For a village and the place tiles or kahuna in a village to score, the village must be long 
enough to reach at least one tiki that the player has put along the top of his realm. Otherwise the player 
removes the entire village from the final scoring! After all players have scored their villages, the player with 
the highest score wins. If players tie with the highest score, the player among them with the highest total of 
remaining shells, feet, and fruits wins. If there is still a tie, the tied players rejoice in their shared victory.
If a player passes the 50, he puts his 50/100 tile in his play area with the 50 side up; and 100 side next time.
Example 1:
Before the final scoring: the foot hut in the 
4th village is removed, because the village 
does not reach at least 1 tiki. The 10 kahuna 
points expire. Also, the 1st village is removed 
from the final scoring, at which point the 5 
kahuna points expire.
For the final scoring: the kahunas on the 
2nd and 3rd villages, the Gods LAKA and KANALOA, the 
hula dancer and the irrigation system. The player scores the 
following points:
Kahunas for the 2nd and 3rd villages: 15 points
KANALOA I: scores 2 points for each boat and for each 
surfer for a total of 8 points.
LAKA II: scores 2 points for each fruit on the fruit tiles (not for the wooden fruits!) for a total of 8 points. 
Hula dancer I: 7 space tiles in her village for 7 points.
Irrigation system: there are 3 fruit tiles in the village for a total of 6 points.
Thus, the player has a total of 44 points, which he 
records on the scoring track.
Example 2:
Before the final scoring, the 3rd village is removed 
as it does not reach at least 1 tiki. Thus the 10 
kahuna points and KANALOA are not scored in 
the final scoring.
Kahunas for the 1st and 2nd villages: 10 points.
LAKA I: for 4 fruit tiles it scores 4 points.
Hula dancer II in 1st village: 10 points.
Hula dancer I in 2nd village: 8 points.
Irrigation system in 2nd village: 10 points.
The player scores a total of 42 points, which he records on the scoring track.
© 2011 Hans im Glück Verlags-GmbH 
If you have comments, questions, or suggestions, 
please write us at RioGames@aol.com or at
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 1033, Placitas, NM 87043, USA
Please visit our website at www.riograndegames.com.
For many test rounds and suggestions, the author and publisher thank Gregor Abraham, Matt Anderson, Dave Andrews, Clark 
Barthel, Beau Beckett, Stefan Brück, Dominic Crapuchettes, Bradley Daigle, Jim Daigle, Margie Daigle, Brian Farrelly, Mark 
Goadrich, Matthew Hammond, Terri Hammond, Tom Hilgert, Dieter Hornung, Joe Huber, Andrew Juell, Bill Kull, James Kyle, 
Sandra Lamartine, Martin Leathwood, Larry Levy, Justin Love, Tim Moore, Brett Myers, Joe Rushanan, Hamdi Saether, 
Jared Scarborough, Karl-Heinz Schmiel, Piet Skjaeveland, Scott Slomiany, Jeph Stahl, Jason Stone, Dwight Sullivan, Mik Svellov, 
Michael Tsuk, Hannes Wildner, the members of the Board Game Design Workshop and the Roundhouse Gamers.
hawaiiRulesENG.indd 12
11/15/11 12:09 PM

1 extra shell (foot) means that the player gets an extra shell (foot) during resource distribution (in addition to 
the basic amount). All such shells and feet are added to the basic distribution.
Fruit 1 – 4 (round end):
Side I: The player receives 1 fruit when the supply manager distributes 
resources at the end of the round.
Side II: 2 fruits instead.
Since there is no basic distribution of fruits, only those players who have fruit 
tiles will receive fruits. What do the players use fruits for?
Fruits are the “3rd currency” on HAWAII. And they are the best currency. That 
is because fruits can be used instead of both shells and feet. For example, when a player buys a place tile and 
the price token shows 4 shells, he can pay 4 fruits instead of 4 shells. When a player moves his chieftain 2 
spaces, for example, he can pay 2 fruits instead of 2 feet.
A player may not, however, mix commodities when paying. For example, paying with 2 shells and 2 fruits. 
The exchange hut offers an exception to this rule (see below).
A player may never put a second place tile of the same kind in a village, even if it is the opposite side (side 
I vs side II). However, a player may put 4 different fruit tiles in a village.
What the place tiles offer the players and when
The place tiles:
where to put them and 
what they bring.
Put all rectangular 
place tiles within the 
angle of the realm.
Put fishing boats to the left of 
the realm.
Put kahunas on spaces 1-5 
(see above), beginning with the 1 
and without gaps to the 5.
Put tikis on spaces 1-6 (see 
above), beginning with the 1 
and without gaps to the 6.
A row of place tiles is called a 
village.
Here new villages can be 
started.
A player may only start a new 
village with one of these 5 place 
tiles (all picture a hut of some 
kind). A player can also add them 
to an existing village. A player 
must begin building villages at 
the top of his realm and work his 
way downward without gaps. A 
village need not be completed to 
start a new one.
Shell huts (round end):
Side I: the player receives 1 extra shell 
when the supply manager distributes 
the shells at the end of the round.
Side II: 2 extra shells instead.
Feet huts (round end):
Side I: the player receives 1 extra foot 
when the supply manager distributes 
the feet at the end of the round.
Side II: 2 extra feet instead.
hawaiiSuppENG.indd 1

Long hut (final scoring):
Side I: it serves only to bring this 
village closer to the tikis (see 
tikis).
Side II: in addition, scores 5 
points in the final scoring.
Exchange hut (turn of the chieftains):
Side I: when paying, the player can 
exchange one commodity: feet, shells, 
or fruits instead of one of the others.
Side II: like side I, but he can 
exchange two resources. A player can 
use each exchange hut once per turn 
and cannot split its benefits.
Spear hut (turn of the chieftains):
Side I: whenever a player acquires a 
price token with crossed spears, he 
immediately scores 1 point, recording 
it by moving his sub-chief forward 1 
space on the scoring track. That is also 
valid for price tokens on the player 
sequence track.
Side II: like Side I, but he scores 2 points.
Players cannot use spear and exchange huts in the 
turn they are bought. Their effects are additive.
Irrigation system (final scoring and end 
of the round):
Side I: the side I counts only for the 
final scoring. The player scores 1-10 
points for 1-4 fruit tiles in the same 
village.
Side II: in addition, the player receives 
1 extra shell, 1 extra foot or 1 extra 
fruit from the supply manager at the 
end of each round (the player chooses).
Surfer (round end):
Side I: at the end of each round, the surfer 
reduces the large number on the round 
indicator for this player by 2.
Side II: like Side I, but the reduction is by 4.
Surfer effects are also additive.
Hula dancer (final scoring):
Side I: during the final scoring, the hula 
dancer scores 1 point for each place tile in 
the village she is in (and only there!). She 
includes herself and the start hut.
Side II: like Side I, but 2 points each.
Tiki (final scoring):
The tikis are important for the final scoring. 
The player only scores villages which extend 
to the row of tikis. That is, there must be at 
least 1 tiki above one place tile of the village.
To make this clear when scoring villages, the players 
remove all place tiles of villages that do not reach at 
least 1 tiki before scoring the villages.
Kahuna (final scoring):
The kahunas (expert) score the points shown 
during the final scoring (naturally only if the 
village is scored, see tikis).
Special feature with the tikis and kahunas: when the 
player puts a tiki on a space, which shows 1 or more 
feet, he receives these immediately from the supply 
manager.
The same is true for kahunas, except there are shells 
instead of feet. The player must first pay for the 
kahuna; he cannot use these shells to help with the 
payment. Kahunas can be placed in front of villages 
not yet started.
Fishing boat (turn of the chieftains):
The fishing boat is included in the 
starting equipment. It has only side 
I and can take 2 feet.
Boat (turn of the chieftains):
Side I: this boat has room for 3 
feet.
Side II: this boat has room for 3 
feet. It also has a pre-printed foot, 
which counts as a foot from the 
player’s supply. The player can pay up to 3 more 
feet or fruits and launch this boat. If the player pays 
with fruits, this is not considered as mixing different 
currencies. To activate this boat, the player must 
spend at least one fruit or foot.
Please remember: if a chieftain goes fishing, or visits 
an island, the player must pay with feet (not for the 
move, but for fishing or the island visit).
The player must have room on his available boat or 
boats for the feet he pays. This can be on one or more 
than one boat. To show that a boat has been used, the 
player turns it to a vertical position. The player puts 
the feet used back into the general supply.
hawaiiSuppENG.indd 2

The Gods (also they are place tiles):
In each village, a player may place only 1 God (to that extent they are treated like same tiles).
A player may have each God only once in his entire realm.
KU (turn of the chieftains and round end):
Side I: it scores 1 point for the player each time the player takes a price token with 
a spear (like the spear hut). In addition, the player receives 1 extra foot at the end of 
the round from the supply manager.
Side II: like Side I, but with 2 points.
KANE (turn of the chieftains and round end):
Side I: at the end of the round, the player receives to 1 extra shell from the supply 
manager (as with the shell hut).
Side II: like Side I, but with 2 shells.
Also, for both sides: immediately after buying KANE (and only then), the player can pay any 2 resources 
(also mixed) into the general supply, and take 1 tiki and put it in the appropriate place in his realm.
PELE (turn of the chieftains):
Side I: the player need pay only a maximum of 2 feet for moving his chieftain, 
regardless of the distance. Of course, the player pays only 1 foot for a move of 1.
Side II: like Side I, but pays a maximum of 1 foot.
LONO (round end):
Side I: when the player’s sum equals or exceeds the large number on the round 
indicator, he scores 2 extra points, regardless of his scoring position.
Side II: like Side I, but +4 points.
LAKA (final scoring):
Side I: during the final scoring, the player scores 1 point for each fruit shown on all 
his fruit tiles. This means all fruits in the player’s realm, not just in the village with 
LAKA.
Side II: like Side I, but with 2 points.
KANALOA (final scoring):
Side I: during the final scoring, the player scores 2 points for each boat and each 
surfer (regardless of whether they are on side I or II). All boats and surfers in the 
player’s entire realm score (only if they are still in the final scoring).
Side II: like Side I, but with 4 points.
hawaiiSuppENG.indd 3

The player scores 5 points in 
addition to the points at the dock.
This island is available twice.
The player takes a foot hut from its 
place and puts it with side II in his 
realm. He pays nothing for it and 
also takes no price token.
The player takes a hula dancer 
from her place and puts her with 
side II in his realm. He pays 
nothing for her and also takes no 
The player takes a surfer from his 
place and puts him with side II in 
his realm. He pays nothing for it 
and also takes no price token.
The player immediately receives 4 
fruits from the supply manager.
The player takes 2 kahunas from 
their place and puts them both on 
empty spaces in his realm. He pays 
nothing for it and also takes no 
The player takes a shell hut from 
its place and puts it with side II in 
his realm. He pays nothing for it 
and also takes no price token.
The player takes any one fruit tile 
from its place and puts it with side 
II in his realm. He pays nothing for 
it and also takes no price token.
The player takes 2 tikis from the 
supply and puts both on empty 
spaces in his realm.He pays 
nothing for it and also takes no 
When a player cannot put a place 
tile legally in his realm, he scores 
only the points on the dock. If a 
player can accommodate only 1 
tiki or 1 kahuna in his realm, then 
he puts this one and leaves the 
other one in its place.
When a place has nothing left, the 
player cannot take anything.
The 10 islands
hawaiiSuppENG.indd 4