10+
1–6
60'
RULES
RULES
This booklet will teach you all the rules to play the core game. 
We suggest you play your first few races following these rules before trying 
the Advanced Play and Championship Rules found in the other booklet.
Read this booklet First!
Read this booklet First!

H
eat waves shimmer from the racetrack, obscuring the first corner. You adjust your goggles 
as the sun glints off the chrome of race cars slowly being pushed into position around you. 
The murmur of the crowd, the snap of flags in the wind, the gentle rumble of your engine. A blue 
summer sky, calm and tranquil in your pole position.
The countdown begins and sudden deep roars cut through the air as all the cars leap away from 
their starting lines; the Grand Prix is underway. Dust and wind rush past your helmet as you enter 
the first corner. Pushing your engine to the limit, you almost spin out. But tightening your grip on 
the steering wheel you slide through the corner apex still in first. You got this!
PUT YOUR
PUT YOUR PEDAL
PEDAL
To tHE
To tHE METAL!!!
METAL!!!
THERE’S NO PRIZE FOR 
THERE’S NO PRIZE FOR 
CROSSING THE FINISH LINE 
CROSSING THE FINISH LINE 
IN A PRISTINE CAR SO…
IN A PRISTINE CAR SO…
Here are the components you will need to play your first few 
games. You can leave the rest in the box for now. They will be 
described in the other booklet. 
Components
Components
 6 player mats 
in player colors
 6 Gear pawns 
in player colors
 This Rules booklet
 2 double-sided game boards with 4 different race tracks 
(USA, France, Great Britain and Italy)
 6 race cars in player colors
 72 Speed cards (12 per player)
 18 Starting 
Upgrade cards 
(3 per player)
 37 Stress cards
x37
 48 Heat cards
x48

In “Heat: Pedal to the Metal™” everyone races a car around the 
track for a given number of laps to determine the best driver. 
 At the start of each round you can shift gears, which dictates 
how many cards you play that round. You control your car’s 
speed by adding the value of these cards to move that many 
spaces on the race track, jockeying for position.
If you’re playing this racing game, you love speed so you’ll be 
playing your high-value cards early and often. However, racing 
requires skill as you maneuver around the track, so be careful 
not to exceed the suggested speed of each corner or your car 
will start to overheat; push too hard and you risk spinning out. 
Manage your speed and take care of your engine if you want a 
shot at the podium!
Object of the Game
Object of the Game
● Place the game board 
 in the middle of the table (for your first game use 
the USA track, and consider only racing 1 lap as a learning experience instead 
of the regular 2 laps as printed on the board).
● Each player chooses a color and takes the car, player mat, Gear pawn and 
12 Speed cards in their color. Each player also takes the 3 Starting Upgrade 
cards in their color.
● Check the game board 
 to discover how many Heat and Stress cards 
each player must add to their car (typically it will be 6 Heat & 3 Stress cards 
so that example is used below). 
● Place your player mat in front of you 
. Shuffle your 12 speed cards, 
3 Starting Upgrade cards and 3 Stress cards together and place this draw 
deck facedown on your player mat’s left spot 
. Place the 6 Heat cards 
faceup on the Engine spot in the middle of the player mat 
 and your Gear 
pawn in first gear 
● Place the remaining Stress cards faceup close to the board as a reserve 
● Randomly place all participating race cars on the starting grid to determine 
player order for the first round. Place them one at a time, filling the spots in 
ascending order 
● Draw 7 cards from your draw deck into your hand. These are the cards avai-
lable to you in the first round of the game. You are ready to begin! 
 Setting up the game
Setting up the game 
Hall of Fame
Laps per race
Corners per lap
Spaces per lap
If you are an experienced driver 
and playing with rookies, consider 
removing 1 or 2 Heat from your 
own car to level the playing field.

“Heat: Pedal to the Metal™” is played over several rounds. Each 
round all players ALWAYS complete 4 steps: 
➊ - adjust their gear, 
➋ - play cards, 
➌ - move their car, 
➒ - draw back up to seven cards. 
 
These mandatory steps are highlighted thanks to the following 
icon 
. The remaining steps (4-8) are all situational and only 
sometimes apply to your turn.
All players complete steps 1 and 2 at the same time (do them 
in order, but without waiting for each other). Then proceed to 
steps 3-9 once everyone has finished these two actions. Repeat 
this sequence until all cars have finished the race (check the 
number of laps on the board for the track you are using).
Reveal 
& Move
Shift Gears 
➊
Play Cards
➋
Adrenaline
➍
React
➎
Slipstream
➏
Check Corner
➐
Discard
➑
Replenish
Hand
Playing a round
Playing a round
1. Shift Gears 
First check which gear your car is in 
from the previous round, and decide if 
you want to leave it there or shift it one 
gear up or down from that position.
Note: You can choose to shift your gear up/down two positions, 
but doing so will require your car to take one Heat, which you 
can read more about on p. 7: Heat Cards.
2. Play Cards 
Your current gear determines exac-
tly how many cards you play from your 
hand. 1st gear means you must play 
1 card, 2nd gear is 2 cards, and so on. Keep 
the 1-4 played cards facedown in your own Play Area.
Once everyone has finished steps 1 & 2, move on to step 3: 
Reveal & Move.
In steps 3 through 9, players move their car and finish their 
turn, one player at a time. Start with the frontmost car, closest 
to the Race Line, and proceed back through the positions one 
car at a time.
Speed Limit
Spot
Race Line
Legends Line 
(only used in 
advanced play)
Corner Line
Space
Number of 
Spaces to next 
corner

3. Reveal & Move 
Flip the cards in your play area so that 
their values are visible, then add all values 
together to determine your speed. Move your 
car forward by exactly that many Spaces on the track. Always 
put your car on the Spot closest to the Race Line if available.
 Cars never prevent you from passing through them, 
even when it looks like the race track is blocked. 
However, if you would end your move in a Space where 
there are cars on all Spots, then you are blocked and 
must put your car in the first Space with a free Spot 
(as close to the Race Line as possible) behind the cars 
that blocked you.
 If there are 2 cars next to each other, the car closest 
to the Race Line is considered ahead for all purposes.
Stress 
 ➤ 
All players start with three Stress cards 
shuffled into their draw deck, and you will 
eventually draw these into your hand. Stress 
cards represent lapses of concentration as you 
race around the track. 
Each time you play a Stress card 
 to get it out of your hand, 
you will apply an unknown speed between 1 and 4. 
Determine the speed by flipping the top card of your draw 
deck:
 If it is a Speed card 
 add it to your played cards 
for the round. 
 If it is not a Speed card, immediately put it in the dis-
card pile and keep flipping until you find a Speed card. 
Do this for each Stress card you played. This randomisation is 
finished before moving on to the Adrenaline Step.
 
4. Adrenaline 
Only applies if you are the last car to move 
this round (or two last cars in a race with 5 
cars or more).
Adrenaline can help the last player to move each round. If 
you have adrenaline, you may add 1 extra speed (move your 
car 1 extra Space) before or after your boost (see below). You 
also gain access to 1 extra Cooldown. You can use both these 
advantages during your React step.
Note: Adrenaline cannot be saved for future rounds.
5. React
Only applies if you have access to symbols 
from cards played (Garage Module), 
Adrenaline or your current gear.
In this step you get to activate symbols you have access to 
in ANY order you want. In general you have access to symbols 
from your current gear or thanks to Adrenaline, but in the 
Garage Module you can also access symbols from cards played. 
The symbols you gain access to in the core game are Cooldown 
& Boost.
For each played Stress card, cards are flipped from 
the top of the active player’s deck and discarded 
until a Speed card shows up. This card is then put 
on top of the Stress card it replaces.
In this example, the active player discards 2 Heat 
cards, a Stress card and a Starting Upgrade card 
and ends up with a Speed of 8.
The active player reveals these cards.
Speed 
card

Cooldown 
 
Cooldown is an important aspect of the game because it 
allows you to take a Heat card from your hand and put it back 
in your Engine (so you can use the Heat card again). The number 
in the Cooldown symbol indicates how many Heat you can move 
in this way. You gain access to Cooldown in a few ways but the 
most common is from driving in 1st gear (Cooldown 3) and 2nd 
gear (Cooldown 1).
Boost 
 ➤ 
You may boost once per turn to increase your speed. If you 
decide to Boost, pay 1 Heat (p. 7: Heat Cards) to flip the top card 
of your draw deck until you draw a Speed card 
 (discard 
all other cards as you do when playing Stress cards). Move your 
car accordingly.
Note: Boost increases your Speed value for the purpose of the 
Check Corner step.
6. Slipstream 
Only applies if you end your move next to 
or behind another car.
Slipstreaming is optional and available if 
you land next to another car, or in a Space behind a car or cars. 
If you choose to Slipstream, you move 2 Spaces forward. 
Note: Slipstreaming does NOT increase your Speed value for 
the purpose of the Check Corner step.
7. Check Corner 
Only applies if you crossed through a 
corner this round. 
If you drive through a corner in your turn 
(crossed a Corner Line) you must now check if your total Speed 
for the round exceeds the Speed Limit of that corner.
 If your total Speed for the round is equal to or lower 
than the Speed Limit, nothing happens.
 If your Speed is higher than the Speed Limit, you pay 
Heat equal to the difference between your Speed and 
the Speed Limit (p. 7: Heat Cards).
Note: If you drive through several corners on the same turn, 
you must pay for each of them separately, starting with the first 
Corner Line you crossed.
Spin out
If you do not have enough Heat to pay for your excess Speed, 
you pay all the Heat you have and immediately spin out:
 Move the car back to the first available Space before 
the corner that caused the spin out.
 Take 1 extra Stress card into your hand if you are in 
1st/2nd gear, or 2 extra Stress cards if you are in 3rd/4th 
gear.
 Move your Gear pawn to 1st gear.
8. Discard
This is an optional step.
You may discard cards from your hand 
if you do not want to save them for future 
rounds. Do so by placing them face up 
into your discard pile. However, nobody 
can browse through the discard piles; 
only the top card is public knowledge.
 Note: You can never choose to discard 
Stress or Heat cards (even the Upgrade 
ones). 
9. Replenish
Hand 
Remember, this is one of the required steps 
of your turn.
Take all cards from your Play Area and put them onto your 
discard pile.
Draw back up to 7 cards, then the next player can proceed 
with steps 3-9.
Running out of cards
At any point, if you must draw or flip cards and there are no 
cards left in your draw deck, immediately shuffle your discard 
pile and place it face down as your new draw deck. Then draw 
or flip the cards you were missing.
If this happens during your turn (before this final redrawing 
step), do not shuffle the cards in your Play Area back in the deck, 
as they have not been discarded yet.
Card cannot 
be discarded

 As you race around the track you should use 
Heat to drive faster on straights and in corners. 
As a consequence, Heat cards will move from 
your Engine to your discard pile. Later on they 
will be shuffled into your draw deck and reach 
your hand. The only way to get Heat cards out 
of your hand and back into the Engine is to cool 
down, typically by shifting to lower gears. This cycle means the 
same Heat card could be used several times during a race, 
depending on how fast you use it, draw it and cool it down again.
Heat cards can never be discarded or played from your hand. 
They effectively reduce your hand size by filling it up with 
useless cards. 
Paying Heat 
Every time you are asked to pay 1 Heat, you must take 1 Heat 
card from your Engine and move it to your discard pile. If you 
do not have a Heat card available, you cannot choose to Boost. 
If you went through a corner exceeding the Speed Limit and do 
not have enough Heat to pay, you spin out (see p. 6).
Shifting up/down 
2 positions
If you want to move your Gear pawn an extra 
step up or down (e.g. between gears 1&3 or 2&4) 
during step 1: Shift Gears, you have to pay 1 Heat 
immediately. As everyone shifts gears at the 
same time, just announce you are doing it, pay 
the Heat and move your Gear pawn accordingly.
Cluttered Hand
In rare circumstances you can get stuck with so many Heat 
cards in your hand that you don’t have enough playable cards 
for the gear you’re in. If this happens, use as many playable 
cards as possible and cover the difference with Heat cards. 
In this case, your car does not move this turn. Instead move 
your Gear pawn to 1st gear, place the cards that are in your Play 
Area in your Discard pile, and skip straight to step 9 (Replenish 
Hand).
You win the race (and the game) by being the first player to 
cross the finish line after the number of laps indicated on the 
board. If two or more cars finish in the same round, the winner 
is the player whose car is furthest ahead (the spot closest to 
the Race Line is the tiebreaker if two cars end up side by side). 
When you have crossed the Finish Line on the last lap:
 Slipstreaming is not allowed (you cannot slipstream 
across the Finish Line either).
 Disregard any speed limits in corners after the Finish 
Line, simply move as far as you can.
At the end of the round, remove all the cars that crossed the 
Finish Line from the track and place them in order on the Hall 
of Fame Space on the board. Continue playing until all cars 
make it to the Finish (give Adrenaline to the last car or last two 
cars based on the number of cars that started the race, not the 
remaining cars in play).
How to Win
How to Win
You are now ready to play. 
We suggest you play a few games before reading about the 
Garage & Legends Modules in the other booklet.
Just draw 7 cards into your hand, if you haven’t already, and 
start playing the first round (begin at step 1: Shift Gears).
Start your engines!
Start your engines!
HEAT Cards
HEAT Cards

Designed and developed by Sidekick Studio
Authors - Asger Harding Granerud and Daniel Skjold Pedersen
Illustrations and Graphic Design - Vincent Dutrait
Graphic Design and Layout - Cyrille Daujean
Editor - Jesse Rasmussen
The authors want to send a very special thank you to their amazing families for always being supportive of their crazy endeavours.
They also want to send a heartfelt thank you to the many friends and playtesters who have helped them over the years: Adam K. Wegge, Allan Kirkeby, Amalie Bülow Nielsen, 
Anders Hebert, Andreas Skjold Liberoth, Andreas Skov Esbech, Bastian Borup, Bo Frederiksen, Daniel Engsvang, Daniel Greve, Danny Halstad, Dennis Friis Skram, 
Eivind Petersen, Jacob Engelbrecht-Gollander, Jacques Dahl, Jakob Lind Olsen, Jeppe Skafte Johansen, Joachim Christoffersen, Johan Friis Skram, Jon Høj, Julie Nielsen, 
Kasper Mackeprang, Keith Edwards, Kristian Hedeboe Hebert, Kristoffer Enggaard, Lars Wagner Hansen, Lasse Poulsen, Lau Korsgaard, Lise Thygesen, Mads Fløe, 
Mads Laurits Hansen, Martin Holst, Mathias Eilenberg, Morten Blaabjerg, Morten Lund, Morten Rodam, Nichole Chambless, Nick Pilegaard, Ole Palnatoke Andersen, 
Per Larsen, Rasmus Faber, Rasmus Schou Christensen, René Christensen, René Ørsig Hansen, Steffen Bunch Morsing, Søren Hebbelstrup, Thore Nellemann, 
Tine Ann Christensen, Tobias Prentow, Troels Panduro, Ulrik Morten Madsen, Valdemar Dahlgaard, everyone at our Superhero Meetups, the Bastard Café, Giants Club 
and Nordic Game Artisans.
The illustrator wants to send many thanks to Peter Hutton for his encouragement and attention. His work has been a source of inspiration and has opened new horizons to 
enrich the universe of “Heat: Pedal to the Metal™”.
Days of Wonder and the Days of Wonder logo are registered trademarks of Days of Wonder, Inc. and copyrights © 2022 Days of Wonder, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Credits
Credits
Days of Wonder Online
Days of Wonder Online
Register your board game
www.daysofwonder.com
www.daysofwonder.com
We invite you to join our online community of players 
at Days of Wonder Online, where we host a number 
of online versions of our games. 
Head to our website and add your Days of Wonder Online 
number to your existing account or create a new one 
and follow the instructions. You can also learn about 
other Days of Wonder games, so visit us at: