1 - General Overview
2 - Components
1 main board
Delight in God’s heavenly garden of beer!
A. Schmidt / M. Kiesling
A game for 2 to 4 players 
aged 14 and up.
36 scoring discs
4 player boards
20 privilege cards
100 resource tiles
20 of each colour, with the fertility 
numbers 1 to 5 distributed equally
27 “1 ducat” coins
10 “10 ducat” cards
14 “5 ducat” cards
4 player figures
1 of each player colour
As the head of an ancient monastery, you strive to provide the people with 
heaven’s best ale! 
Over several rounds, you compete with your opponents for resource tiles 
and monk tiles to improve your cloister’s garden. You must balance buying 
new tiles and taking the scoring discs that let you reap the rewards of 
those tiles. This is no easy task, as you all compete for the same tiles and 
the same, very limited, scoring discs. The player who plans her cloister’s 
garden most carefully, developing the most synergies among her resource, 
monk and shed tiles, has a good chance of winning. But winning is only 
possible if you manage to balance your resources and the progress of your 
brewmaster so that by the end of the game you have filled lots of barrels 
with high-quality beer.
12 large barrels
12 small barrels
4 brewmasters
1 of each player colour
20 resource markers
4 of each resource colour
wood
yeast
hops
water
barley
II
24 monk tiles
6 of each type
with 12 different goals
with the same 12 goals 
as the large ones
4 sets containing 5 cards
I II
49 shed tiles
double sided with 5 types
Andreas Schmidt and Michael Kiesling have been de-
signing board games together since 2014, and have more 
than 30 years of board game design experience between 
them. Based in Bremen, they are proud to present their 
first collaboration to the public.
12x
12x

brewmaster starting spot
tile 
scoring 
spots
production track
resource 
marker 
starting 
spots
3 - Setup
I. Main setup
1.	 Place the main board on the table within every player’s reach.
2.	 Place the ducats and scoring discs next to the main board as reserves.
3.	 Separate the resource tiles and place them face down into two piles: one 
pile containing all the tiles that have a “I” on their back, the second pile 
containing all the tiles that have a “II” on their back. Then place 1 resource 
tile with a “I” on its back face up on to each of the 15 resource spaces (
) 
on the main board. 
4.	 Place the shed tiles next to the main board. As the shed tiles are double 
sided and come in different types, divide them for convenience by their 5 
types into 5 approximately equally large piles before placing them next to 
the board.
5.	 Separate the 24 monk tiles according to their back (I and II). Shuffle the 
12 I-monk tiles. Then place a stack of 4 of them face down on to each of the 
spaces in the centre of the main board showing a 
•	 In a 2-player game, return all the II-monk tiles to the game box, they 
are not needed. 
•	 In a 3-player game, shuffle the 12 II-monk tiles and then place a stack of 
4 of them face down on to the leftmost space showing a 
. Return the 
remaining II-monk tiles unseen to the game box, they are not needed.
•	 In a 4-player game, shuffle the 12 II-monk tiles and place a stack of 4 
of them face down on to each of the spaces showing a 
6.	 Take the leftmost stack of monk tiles and place 1 of them face up on to each 
of the 4 monk spaces (
) on the main board.
7.	 Place 1 scoring disc (
) from the reserve on to each of the 6 scoring disc 
III. Starting player
Determine a starting player by using your favourite 
house rule. The starting player then places her 	
player figure on the “First player starting space” in 
the starting area.
Then, going counterclockwise, each other player 
places her player figure on to one of the remaining 
starting spaces and takes that space’s immediate 
reward. 
Starting area
Immediate reward: Take 2 
ducats from the reserve.
Immediate reward: 
Move your brewmaster 
1 step forward on the 
production track of 
your player board.
First player starting space.
Immediate reward: 
Move 1 resource 
marker 2 steps 
forward on your 
production track.
Example of a 3-player main board setup
sunny side of 
your garden
sunny 
shady 
production 
shady side of 
your garden
spaces (
) on the main board.
8.	 Take the 12 small barrels and place 1 face up on to 
each barrel spot on the main board. Then place each of 
the large barrels on top of its matching small barrel. 
II. Player setup
Each of you choose a player colour and do the following:
A.	 Take the 1 player board, 5 privilege cards and 1 player figure of your 
player colour and place them in front of you.
B.	 Take 25 ducats from the reserve. How much money a player has is public 
knowledge.
C.	 Take the brewmaster of your colour and place it on the brewmaster starting 
spot on your player board.
D.	 Take 1 of each of the 5 resource markers and 
place them on their starting spots on your 
II I
IIIIII
shed spot

4 - Gameplay
Resource spaces
The game is played over a certain number of rounds: 
•	 3 rounds in a 2-player game, 
•	 4 rounds in a 3-player game, 
•	 6 rounds in a 4-player game.
The starting player begins. Play then continues to her left with the players tak-
ing their turns in a clockwise direction. 
If you move your player figure to a resource space, you must buy at least 1 
of the resource tiles on it. (From the second round a space may contain more 
than one tile.) You may buy as many resource tiles from that space as you can 
afford.
Resource tiles may never be placed on shed spots: 
Attention: If the placement of a resource tile leads to the enclosure of a shed spot (be-
cause there is a tile in each of the six spots adjacent to it), carry out the shed tile proce-
dure described on page 6 immediately. 
fertility 
number
The cost of each resource tile depends on its fertility number and on which side 
of your player board you place it.
•	 If you are going to place it on the shady side of your player board, pay as 
many ducats to the reserve as the fertility number on the resource tile indi-
cates. Then place it in any empty shady spot.
•	 If you are going to place the resource tile on the sunny side of your player 
board, pay twice as many ducats to the reserve as the fertility number on the 
resource tile indicates. Then place the resource tile in any empty sunny spot.
Example
Peter moves his 
player figure to a 
resource space that 
contains one yellow 
resource tile with a 
Peter buys the green tile (with a fertility number 
of 5) for 5 ducats and places it in a shady spot 
on his player board. Then he buys the yellow 
resource tile (with a fertility number of 3) for 6 
ducats and places it in a sunny spot. 
Moving to the starting area
If you enter the starting area with your player figure, 
place it on any of the empty spaces of the starting area. 
A starting space is empty if no other player figure is 
placed there. If this space has an immediate reward, 
take it now (see the box in the bottom right of page 2).
On your turn, move your player figure forward 
(clockwise) on the common track of the main board 
any number of spaces, but not further than the 
starting area (see the box on the right). Then you 
must take the action of the space you have moved 
to. Then it is the next player’s turn.
resource 
monk 
scoring 
disc 
barrel 
There are four types of action space:
Stop
Start
common 
track
Further rules:
•	 You may never move your player figure backwards nor stay with it where you are.
•	 You may move to an action space occupied by other player figures. 
•	 You may never move to any space whose action you are not able to perform. This means you may not move to a resource or monk space where 
there isn’t any tile, nor may you move to a scoring disc space where there isn’t any scoring disc. Similarly, you may not move to a barrel space if 
you have not achieved any barrel’s goal (see page 6).
Important: If all the other players have already moved to the 
starting area and the “First player starting space” is still 
empty, the last player to enter the starting area must place her 
figure on the “First player starting space”.
Once you have placed your figure in the starting area, you are 
out of this round. For the rest of this round your turn is skipped, 
while the remaining players continue with their turns as usual.
Once all the players’ figures are in the starting area, the round 
ends. Then prepare the next round. If it was the last round for 
your player count, carry out the final scoring. (See page 7 for 
both cases.)
Each type of space allows a specific action, which will be explained below.
fertility number of 3 and one green resource tile 
with a fertility number of 5.

You must activate the tiles you place on your player board in order to reap their rewards. This is most commonly done by moving to a scoring disc 
space and taking a tile scoring action.
If you move your player figure to a scoring disc space on the common track, take 1 scoring disc from that space, place it on an empty 
tile-scoring spot of your player board and perform that spot’s specific tile scoring action. The space from which you take the disc (A, B, C or 
A/B/C) determines which scoring spot you may place it on.
Scoring disc spaces
Monk cost 
number
Monk spaces
A monk tile may never be placed in a 
shed spot: 
The cost of the monk tile depends on the monk cost number and 
on which side of your player board you place it.
•	 If you are going to place it on the shady side of your player 
board, pay as many ducats to the reserve as the monk cost 
number on the monk space indicates. Then place it in any 
empty shady spot.
•	 If you are going to place it on the sunny side of your player 
board, pay twice as many ducats to the reserve as the monk 
cost number on the monk space indicates. Then place it in 
any empty sunny spot.
Attention: If the placement of a monk tile leads 
to the enclosure of a shed spot (because there is 
a tile in each of the six spots adjacent to it), car-
ry out the shed tile procedure described on page 6 
Peter moves his player 
figure to scoring disc 
space A, takes its scoring 
disc and places it on his 
x-tile scoring spot. He 
chooses to score fertility 
number 3 and this acti-
vates each of his resource 
tiles that has a fertility 
number of 3 (highlighted 
by a red border). 
If you move your player figure to a monk space, you must buy at least 1 of the monk tiles there. (From the second round a monk 
space may contain more than one monk tile.) You may buy as many monk tiles from that space as you can afford.
When you activate a resource 
tile on your garden’s shady 
side, take as many ducats from 
the reserve as the tile’s fertility 
number.
If you take a scoring disc from disc scoring 
space A, place it on the x-tile scoring spot 
of your player board (provided it is still 
empty). Now nominate one fertility num-
ber (1 to 5) and activate all resource tiles 
on your player board that show that exact 
fertility number. Each resource tile you 
activate this way grants you an activation 
reward (see the box on the right).
When you activate a resource tile on your 
garden’s sunny side, move your resource 
marker of that tile’s colour as many steps 
forward on your production track as that 
tile’s fertility number.
Activation rewards of resource tiles
Each resource tile that is activated grants you a reward that depends on which 
side of your garden you placed it on:
3 + 3 = 
6 steps

If you take a scoring disc from a 
scoring disc space A/B/C, place it on 
any empty tile scoring spot on your 
player board: 
If you place it on the x-tile scor-
ing spot, carry out the scoring 
procedure described for scoring 
disc space A. 
If you place it on a monk tile 
scoring spot, carry out the 
scoring procedure described for 
scoring disc space B. 
Peter places a scoring disc on 
the tile scoring spot of this 
monk 
. Thus each of his 
monks of this type is triggered 
and activates each tile directly 
adjacent to it (highlighted by 
a red border). The blue re-
source tile is activated twice.
2x
This triggers all monk tiles on your player 
board of that spot’s type of monk. Each monk 
tile triggered this way activates each resource 
tile directly adjacent to it (granting its usual 
activation reward - see the white box on page 
4). 
If you take a scoring disc from disc scoring 
space B, place it on one of the empty monk 
tile scoring spots on your player board. 
Further rules
A triggered monk also activates any monk tiles adjacent to 
it. When a monk tile is activated this way, it grants you the 
reward described in the box to the right.
Note: To make sure that things don’t get mixed up, if you 
have several monks of the triggered type you should trigger 
them one after the other, by collecting all activation rewards 
granted by one of them before triggering the next monk of 
that type.
Peter moves to scoring disc space C 
and decides to place the scoring disc 
on his yellow resource tile scor-
ing spot. This activates all yellow 
resource tiles on his player board 
(highlighted by a red border). Note 
that he isn’t allowed to place the 
scoring disc on the green resource tile 
scoring spot, as it is already occupied 
by a scoring disc.
If you take a scoring disc from scor-
ing disc space C, place it on one of 
the empty resource tile scoring 
spots on your player board. This 
activates all resource tiles on your 
player board that match that spot’s 
type of resource (granting its usual 
activation reward - see the white 
box on page 4).
When Peter triggers the 
-monk, the adja-
cent 
-monk is activated. This allows him 
to move his brewmaster 1 step forward on 
the production track of his player board.
Activation rewards of monk tiles
For each of your activated (rather than triggered) monk tiles, move 
your brewmaster one step forward on your production track. (Regard-
less of whether the monk tile was placed in a sunny or shady spot.)
You may never move on to an empty scor-
ing disc space, nor may you move on to a 
scoring disc space whose tile scoring spots 
you can’t use. (You can’t use a tile scoring 
spot if it is already occupied by a disc or if 
it scores a type of tile that is not present 
on your player board.)
In the final round of 2- and 3-player games, 
there may be more than one scoring disc on 
a scoring disc space (see page 7). However, 
a player who moves there can still only take 
1 scoring disc.
If a resource marker reaches the 
production spot numbered 20, 
it moves no further. For each 
subsequent step you would take, 
instead take 1 ducat from the 
reserve.
After you have placed a scoring disc on a 
tile scoring spot and have carried out the 
scoring procedure, check if you have com-
pleted a privilege pair (see page 6).
If you place it on a resource tile scoring spot, car-
ry out the scoring procedure described for scoring 
disc space C.

reward table
shed fertility sum range
Barrel spaces
When you move your player figure on to one of the two barrel spaces on the common track, take from the centre of 
the board all remaining barrels whose goals you have achieved.
Each goal has a large and a small barrel. If the large barrel of your goal is still available, take it, and not the small 
one. If only the small barrel is available take that, provided you don’t already have its large counterpart. You can’t 
take other players’ barrels. See page 8 for a list of the goals and an extended example.
shed spot
Enclosing a shed spot
Each time you completely enclose one of the 7 shed spots on your player board 
(because there is now a tile on each of the 6 adjacent spots), carry out the 
following procedure: 
•	 Sum the fertility numbers of all resource tiles that are directly adjacent to 
the enclosed shed spot. The result is your shed fertility sum. (Note that 
monk tiles have no fertility value, so they don’t add to the shed fertility sum.)
•	 Move your brewmaster as many steps forward on 
your production track as is indicated in the reward 
table (0 to 6 steps).
•	 Next, take from the reserve the shed tile shown in 
the reward table and place it on the enclosed shed 
spot. Each shed tile activates a number of adja-
cent tiles immediately. Each resource and monk 
tile activated this way grants its usual activation 
reward (see the white boxes on pages 4 and 5):
At the end of the 
game each large 
barrel is worth 	
4 victory points.
At the end of the 
game each small 
barrel is worth 	
2 victory points.
Completing a privilege pair
Whenever you complete a privilege pair on 
your player board (because both of its tile 
scoring spots now contain a scoring disc), 
you may place one of your privilege cards 
next to it and resolve its reward (see page 
8). If you choose not to place a card at this 
time, you may not place one there later.
At any point in your turn, 
you may return to the game 
box any of your privilege 
cards (that you have not yet 
placed next to a privilege 
pair) to immediately take 3 
ducats from the reserve.
The back is used as 
a reminder of this 
option.
Activates 
no tile.
Activates 
1 adjacent 
tile of your 
choice.
Activates 2 adjacent tiles of your 
choice. The two tiles must lie at op-
posite edges of this shed tile (marked 
by arrows of the same colour).
Activates 3 adjacent tiles of your 
choice. They may not lie next to one 
another (marked by arrows of the same 
colour).
Activates 4 
adjacent tiles of 
your choice.
The 12 barrels in the centre of the main board display goals that you 
may achieve. If you have achieved one or more of these goals, you claim 
the corresponding barrels when you move to a barrel space. Barrels grant 
additional victory points at the end of the game.
You have two more tools to achieve your aim of brewing the best beer: the 7 shed spots and the 5 privilege pairs on your player board.
This sum determines your reward, as shown on the reward table:
Peter must activate 
two tiles that are at 
opposite edges of this 
= 15
Peter places a sixth tile beside 
a shed spot. 
With his shed fertility sum of 15, 
he receives the following rewards: 
He adds up the fertility 
numbers of the resource tiles 
adjacent to this shed spot:
Peter moves his brewmaster 1 step forward on his produc-
tion track. Then he takes a 
-shed tile from the reserve 
and places it on the shed spot.
Example
shed tile, so he decides to 
activate the yellow resource 
with fertility number 4 and 
the white resource with 
fertility number 3.
The 10 tile scoring spots on your player board make up 5 privilege pairs.
barrels
barrel spaces
“Emergency coin” rule
24+
12-17
18-23
8-11
0-7

II
last round of a 
2-player game
last round of a 3-player game
2:1
x4
3:1 | x4
2:1
3:1 | x4
5:1
x2
4:1 | x3
=
3:1 | x3
3:1
3:1 | x3
3:1
:
5 - End of the game
Preparing the next round
The player who placed her player figure in the “First player starting space” of the starting area begins 
the new round with her turn. Play then continues clockwise as usual.
At the end of each round, once each player has placed her figure in the starting area, proceed with the following steps:
1. Take the next pile 
of monk tiles from 
the centre of the 
main board and add 
1 monk tile from it 
face up to each of the 
4 monk spaces on the 
main board. 
2. Add 1 resource tile from the 
reserve face up to each resource 
space on the main board. 
As long as there are resource tiles 
with I on the back, use these to refill 
the resource spaces. Once you run 
out of resource tiles with I, begin 
placing resource tiles with II on their 
back.
3. Refill the scoring disc spaces so that 
each contains exactly 1 scoring disc.
Attention: Carry out the steps in the 
box on the right if the upcoming round 
is the final round of a 2- or 3-player 
game. The final round of the game is the 
one for which you took the last pile of 
monk tiles.
4. Place a second scoring 
disc on disc scoring spaces 
B and C.
In 3-player games only, 
place a second disc on the 
“first” A/B/C scoring disc 
space.
Finally, calculate your victory points as follows:
For example: 
Your brewmaster has unlocked an exchange rate of 
2:1.
Continue applying your exchange rate until none of your resource 
markers can be moved forward without decreasing the value of an-
other marker to below that spot.
The player with the most victory points wins the game. If tied all the 
players with the most victory points share the victory.
2. Add to that result 4 points for each large 
barrel and 2 points for each small barrel 
you have collected. If you have placed your 
barrel privilege card next to one of your com-
pleted privilege pairs, add 1 victory point to 
your score for each barrel you have collected.
3. Finally, if your player figure is on the “First player 
starting space”, add 1 victory point to your result.
1. Check which of your 5 resource markers is furthest behind on your 
production track and which spot it is on. Multiply the number in this 
spot by the victory point value your brewmaster unlocked. (If any of 
your resource markers has not reached a brown production spot (numbered 
“1” to “20”), your result will be 0, as you will have to multiply your victory 
point value by 0.) 
Next, even out the positions of your resource markers on your 
production track:
B. Then, for every 10 ducats you return to the 
reserve, move any one of your resource markers 
1 step forward on your production track.
A. First, apply your unlocked resource exchange rate to move your 
resource markers closer together: The rate determines how many 
total steps you have to move any of your resource markers backwards 
in order to move your least advanced resource marker 1 step forward. 
The game ends after the last round, as soon as the last player has moved her player figure to a space of the starting area and has taken its immediate 
reward (if any). Now you each work out your victory points as follows:
Check which production spot 
your brewmaster is on and 
which resource exchange 
rate and victory point value
it has unlocked.
If it has not even 
reached the upper 
part of your produc-
tion track, the re-
source exchange rate 
is 5:1 and the victory 
point value is 2.
For example, if your brewmaster is 
on any of these spots, it has un-
locked the rate 3:1 and the value 4.
If it has only advanced to any of 
these spots, it has only unlocked 
the rate 4:1 and the value 3.
OR 2 other resource markers 1 step 
backwards each. 
Thus, to move your least advanced re-
source marker 1 step forward, you must 
either move one other resource marker 
2 steps backwards
After applying the resource exchange rate, the brown 
resource marker has reached the production spot num-
bered “9” and is thus the marker that is the furthest 
behind on Peter’s production track.
Peter’s brewmaster unlocked the victory point value 4. 
Thus his production score is: 9 x 4 = 36 victory points. 
In a 2- or 3-player game:

CREDITS
Game design: Andreas Schmidt and Michael Kiesling
Illustrations and graphics: Fiore GmbH
Development: Viktor Kobilke, Philippe Schmit
Rule book and rule book layout: Philippe Schmit 
Rule book revision: Neil Crowley, Viktor Kobilke
Copyright: © 2017 Plan B Games Inc.
19 rue de la Coopérative,
Rigaud, QC J0P 1P0, Canada
All rights reserved. 
www.planbgames.com
Plan B Games Europe GmbH, 
Sinstorfer Weg 70, 21077 Hamburg, Germany
www.eggertspiele.de
eggertspiele is a brand of Plan B Games Europe GmbH.
placed at least 3 
privilege cards 
next to completed 
privilege pairs.
placed at least 
4 different shed 
types on your player 
board.
placed at least 
3 shed tiles of the 
same type on your 
One or more of your 
resource markers 
must have reached at 
least the production 
spot numbered “20”.
You must have placed a 
monk tile or a resource 
tile in each of the 15 
sunny spots on your 
You must have placed a 
monk tile or a resource 
tile in each of the 15 
shady spots on your 
You must have placed 
at least 6 resource tiles 
with a fertility number 
of 1 on your player 
board.
You must have placed 
at least 6 resource 
tiles with a fertility 
number of 5 on your 
All of your resource 
markers must have 
reached at least the 
brown production 
spot numbered “1”.
Your brewmaster 
figure must have 
reached at least the 
brown production 
spot numbered “1”.
You must have a 
scoring disc on 
each of the 4 monk 
tile scoring spots.
You must have a 
scoring disc on each 
of the 5 resource 
tile scoring spots.
The barrels and their goals
Example of how to acquire barrels
The barrel privilege card: At the end 
of the game, receive 1 additional 
victory point for each barrel (small 
or large) that you own. 
Take 12 ducats from the reserve 
Move your brewmaster 5 steps 
forward on the production track 
Count how many scoring discs you 
have on your tile scoring spots. Then 
move the resource marker that is 
furthest behind on your production 
track that many steps forward. (If 
more than one resource marker are 
furthest behind, choose one of them 
to move the entire amount forward.)
Choose a resource colour. Count how 
many resource tiles of that colour 
you have placed on your player 
board (ignoring fertility numbers). 
Move your resource marker of that 
colour that many steps forward on 
your production track.
The privilege cards
Peter moves his player fig-
ure to a barrel space. He has 
achieved 3 of the goals on the 
barrels in the centre of the 
main board: He may now take 
the following 2 large 
barrels and this small 
barrel as they are 	
still available: