™
AGE 15+
Rulebook

Contents
Overview 
 Object of the Game 
 Play of the Game 
 Card Types, Mana Cards, and Abominations 7
 Zones 
Deck Rules and Strategy 
Setup and Start 
Turn Sequence 
 Ready Phase 
 Main Phase 
 Enemies’ Turns 
Abilities 
 General Rules 
 Simultaneous Abilities 
 Main Abilities of Minions and Abominations 17
 Effects and Abominations 
 Dooms, Subtypes, and Abominations 
 Damage to Abominations 
 0-Strength Minions 
 Abilities and Destroyed Minions 
 One-Minion Abominations in Combat 
Glossary 
World Concepts 
Questions? 

Overview
The world teeters on the edge of apocalypse. The bulwarks of reality 
falter and fail, and sinister gods of primeval malice loom, ready to 
consume the earth. In the end, only one unholy mastermind will stand 
triumphant amid the falling ashes of existence.
Endbringers gather here. They might be crazed servants of insane 
gods, masters of forbidden science, or sorcerers of unspeakable 
knowledge. What they have in common is their goal—to end 
the world.
To wage their battle against each other, endbringers merge natural 
and unnatural creatures into mighty hybrids called abominations, 
which reap souls for their masters. Endbringers also use their 
knowledge and power to cast unholy spells, activate arcane relics, 
and even summon evil gods.
The endbringer who amasses enough souls ﬁrst wins—and the 
whole world loses.
Object of the Game
Gain 20 souls or more to destroy the world and win the game.
Play of the Game
Two or more players play using their own decks and a number of 
soul counters. From turn to turn, you build abominations, which steal 
your enemies’ souls. You can also use fates, relics, and unholy gods 
to defeat your enemies. Players gain a soul on each of their turns, so 
the end of the world is inevitable. The only question is which player 
will end it.

Strength
Minion Card
Fate, Relic, or God Card
Conditional Ability
Name, Type, and Subtype
Name
Type
Subtype (Fates)
Collector Number and Rarity Symbol
strength: Minions have strength. An abomination’s strength is its 
minions’ strength total.
text box: Fate, relic, and god cards each have one text box. A minion 
card has two: the main text box above its name and a conditional-
ability text box below the art. An ability in a minion’s main text box 
usually applies to the abomination the minion is in. Sometimes the text 
box contains ﬂ avor text. Text in parentheses and italics is reminder text, 
which doesn’t change how the card works. It just reminds you of how 
effects work.

name: Names don’t affect game play.
type and subtype: The four card types are minion, fate, relic, and god. 
Minion and fate cards also have subtypes. Some effects apply only to 
cards that have certain subtypes. Combat minions and combat fates are 
cards you can play during combat.
cost: Each card has a cost—the number of mana cards you need to 
tap to play it. At least one of the mana cards you tap must match the 
doom of the card you’re playing.
doom: Each card belongs to one of four dooms: corruption (gray), 
deceit (blue), destruction (red), or greed (green).
triggers: Triggers are triangular, colored areas in four of the 
corners around the name and art of a minion card. Triggers activate 
conditional abilities.
conditional ability: When you play one minion (from your hand) on 
another, the top one’s conditional ability happens if the color of its 
conditional-ability text box matches the trigger color of the minion 
under it. See page 21.
expansion symbol: The expansion symbol is a way to identify which 
set or expansion a card is from. The expansion symbol for the base 
set is I.
collector number: The collector number indicates a card’s number out 
of the total number of cards in the set.
rarity symbol: There are three rarities: common (●), uncommon 
(✦), and rare (★).

The Four Dooms
The dooms are the fundamental forces of evil. Every sort of 
evil in the world is some expression or combination of these 
dooms. Each doom has its own style and minions.
 
Corruption
Corruption is the power of madness, deformity, and 
knowledge not meant for mortals to know. Corruption minions 
include mutants and ancient, evil Mesoamerican entities 
called aztecals. Greed is corruption’s primary enemy.
 
Deceit
Deceit is the power of lies, trickery, and shadow. Its minions 
include shapeshifters, mutants, and haunted objects called 
animates. The primary enemy of deceit is destruction.
 
Destruction
Destruction is physical power that sunders and crushes. 
Among destruction minions are beasts and aztecals. 
Destruction’s primary enemy is deceit.
 
Greed
Greed is the power of wealth, temporal power, and unholy 
desire. Greed minions include undead and animates. Greed’s 
primary enemy is corruption.

Card Types, Mana Cards, 
and Abominations
There are four card types: minion, fate, relic, and god. A mana card 
is a card of any type in the mana zone. An abomination is a minion or 
stack of minions in play.
Minions 
You play a minion either as a new abomination or on an existing 
abomination. Minions stay in play until destroyed. Combat minions 
are minions you can play during combat, though you can play them 
outside of combat as normal minions, too.
Fates 
Fates include invocations, curses, tactics, and mishaps—either 
something an endbringer does or something that just happens. When 
you play a fate, its effect happens, and then it goes to your graveyard. 
Combat fates are the only fates you can play during combat, though 
you can play them outside of combat, too.
Relics 
Relics are magical or technological devices that can help you or hurt 
your enemies. When you play one, it stays in play and affects the 
game until destroyed.
Gods 
Gods are baleful deities endbringers summon to help them destroy 
the world. When you play a god, it usually has a one-time effect 
(within these marks: « ») and a continual effect. It stays in play until 
destroyed. If you play another god, sacriﬁce the old one.

Mana Cards 
You can play any card into your mana zone, where it becomes a mana 
card. You can then tap it to pay for other cards. It stays in the mana 
zone (which isn’t in play) until destroyed.
An abomination is a single unit composed of minions that can attack 
your enemies to reap souls. It can also block attackers.
Zones
There are 6 zones: deck, hand, mana zone, play zone, graveyard, 
and the “removed from game” zone.
Play Zone
Mana Zone
Deck
Graveyard
(right one tapped)
Relic
God
Mana Cards (4 tapped, 3 untapped)
Hand
“Removed from Game” Zone

Deck 
Each player has a deck of at least forty cards. You can have no more
than three copies of a card in your deck. Shufﬂe your deck and 
put it face down at the start of the game. If you run out of cards,
keep playing. You can’t draw any more cards, but otherwise you 
play normally.
Hand 
Each player starts with a four-card hand. You draw two at start 
of your turn, except the ﬁrst player draws one on their ﬁrst turn. 
There’s no hand-size limit.
Mana Zone 
Each turn, you may put one card from your hand into your mana 
zone, where it becomes a mana card. It isn’t in play. You tap mana 
cards to pay costs.
Play Zone 
You may play cards from your hand into the play zone by tapping 
mana cards to pay for them. See page 11 for card-playing rules.
Cards count as minions, relics, and gods only while in the play zone. 
In other zones, they’re minion cards, relic cards, and god cards.
Graveyard 
Your graveyard is a face-up pile near your deck. Cards go there when 
destroyed or discarded. You can look at the cards in any player’s 
graveyard anytime.
“Removed from Game” Zone 
Some effects remove cards from the game, either permanently 
or temporarily. Set such cards aside or put them where directed. 
They don’t go to your graveyard.

Deck Rules and Strategy
Your deck must have at least forty cards, with no more than three 
copies of any card. A deck usually includes cards of two dooms, with 
minions whose conditional abilities match those dooms. With three or 
four dooms in a deck, you can pick the best cards of each doom, but 
it’s harder to make conditional abilities work. With only one doom in 
a deck, you always have mana cards of the doom you need, but you 
have few conditional abilities and fewer cards in general to choose 
from.
Setup and Start
Players shufﬂe their decks and put them face down.
Put the soul counters where everyone can get to them. Each player 
takes 5 souls.
Decide who takes the ﬁrst turn.
Each player draws four cards.
Turn Sequence
 Ready Phase (in order)
 Gain 1 soul.
 Untap.
 Draw two.
 Main Phase (any order)
 Add one mana card (once per turn).
 Play cards (repeat as you like).
 Attack (repeat as you like).

Ready Phase 
Follow these steps in order at the start of your turn.
Gain 1 Soul 
Add 1 soul to your pile. If you have 20 souls, you win.
Untap 
Untap your tapped cards. An untapped abomination has its top 
minion’s main text box at the top. An untapped mana card is face up 
but inverted, so the name of the card is at the bottom.
Draw Two
Draw two cards. If you’re the ﬁrst player taking your ﬁrst turn, 
draw one instead. If you run out of cards, keep playing.
Main Phase 
Do these steps in any order.
Add One Mana Card 
You may put a card from your hand into your mana zone, where it 
counts as a mana card. Place it face up and inverted. You tap mana 
cards to pay costs.
Early in the game, you’ll usually want to put your highest-cost cards 
in the mana zone because you wouldn’t be able to use them right 
away. Later in the game, use low-cost cards for mana cards.
Play Cards 
You may play one or more cards from your hand if you can tap enough 
of the right kind of mana cards.

Tapping mana cards: To play a card, ﬁ rst tap a number of untapped 
mana cards equal to the card’s cost. At least one of those mana cards 
must be the same doom as the card played. For example, to play a 
corruption card that costs 3, tap one corruption card and two cards of 
any doom.
Playing minions: Put a minion into the play zone either on its 
own as a new abomination or on top of an existing abomination. 
A one-minion abomination can’t attack or block. When you play a 
minion on an abomination, the strength and main text box of each 
bottom minion must show through one of the four clear sides of the 
top one. (You can’t play a sixth minion on a size 5 abomination.) 
An abomination that gets a new minion can’t attack that turn, but 
it can block during enemies’ turns. Often it’s best to attack with an 
abomination ﬁ rst, if you can, and then play a minion on it. A minion 
might have a conditional ability, which works when you play it on 
a minion of the correct doom. See page 21 for rules on conditional 
abilities. Combat minions are minions you can play during combat. 
You can still play them whenever you can play normal minions.
Playing fates: When you play a fate, its effect happens, and then 
it goes to your graveyard. If a fate’s ability has the word “target,” 
Play mana cards inverted, like this.
When you use a mana card to 
pay for a card, turn it sideways 
like this (tap it).

you must choose a target to play that fate. Fate effects are 
one-time effects, which either end at end of turn or last indeﬁnitely. 
If a fate changes a card’s numbers or abilities, or if it overrides 
normal rules, then its effect ends at end of turn. If a fate changes the 
position of any cards, affects soul counters, or otherwise changes 
the state of game components, then its effect lasts indeﬁnitely. For 
example, a fate that gives an abomination Rager +2 lasts until end of 
turn, but one that puts a minion into its owner’s hand lasts indeﬁnitely. 
The minion doesn’t come back out of the hand at end of turn, but the 
player can still play it as they would any other card. A good guideline 
is that any effect you would have to remember goes away at end of 
turn, while any effect you don’t have to remember lasts indeﬁnitely. 
Combat fates are the only fates you can play during combat. You can 
still play them whenever you can play normal fates.
Playing relics: Put relics into the play zone by themselves 
(not on anything). They stay in play indeﬁnitely. Relics usually have 
continual effects.
Playing gods: Put gods into the play zone by themselves (not on 
anything). If you already have a god in play, sacriﬁce it when you play 
the new one. A god usually has a one-time effect when you play it, 
plus a continual effect.

Attack 
You can send one or more abominations to attack an enemy and try 
to reap souls. You can attack as many times as you like (until all 
your abominations are tapped). You attack one enemy each time you 
attack (and can attack the same enemy more than once).

The only cards you can play during an attack are combat fates and 
combat minions. You can’t add mana cards during attacks.
Declare attackers: When you attack, choose one or more of your 
untapped abominations and an enemy for them to attack. Tap those 
abominations. Abominations you played or added to this turn can’t 
attack. When you attack with multiple abominations, sometimes it’s 
best to send them all at once. That way each blocker can block only 
one attacker. Other times it’s best to send attackers one at a time. 
That can limit the defender’s blocking options.
Play combat fates and combat minions: The aggressor may 
now play combat fates and combat minions (but no other fates or 
minions). Once the aggresssor has played as many combat fates and 
minions as desired, the defender may play combat fates and minions. 
Other players can’t play combat fates and minions.
Assign blockers: Each untapped abomination the enemy controls 
can block one attacker, preventing that attacker from reaping souls. 
Only one abomination can block each attacker. When an abomination 
blocks, the blocker and attacker ﬁght. Other enemies’ abominations 
can’t block for the defender. If you attack the same enemy more 
than once in a turn, a blocker that survives one attack can block 
again (unless it’s been reduced to one minion). Once an attacker 
become blocked, it’s blocked until end of combat even if its blocker 
is removed from combat.
Play more combat fates and combat minions: The aggressor and 
then the defender may again play combat fates and combat minions, 
as before.

Reap souls: Each attacker that wasn’t blocked reaps a number 
of souls equal to its size (not its strength) from the enemy. 
For example, a three-minion abomination reaps 3 souls. The 
aggressor gets those souls. If the enemy has fewer souls than the 
abomination’s size, the abomination reaps only what the enemy has.
Why We Reap 
Each soul counter represents a number of mortals known as 
“true believers,” as well as their soul energy. True believers 
have strong enough faith that endbringers can use it to 
bring about apocalypse. When an abomination kills another 
endbringer’s true believers, it channels the soul energy to its 
master. When an endbringer has enough of this power, they 
destroy the world.
Have abominations ﬁght: Each blocked attacker deals damage to 
its blocker, and each blocker deals damage to its attacker. Neither 
reaps souls. An abomination deals damage equal to its strength 
(the total of its minions’ strengths). If an abomination takes damage at 
least as great as its total strength, it’s destroyed. All its minions go 
to the graveyard. If an abomination takes less damage than its strength, 
some or all of its minions survive. Apply the damage to the top minion 
ﬁrst. If the damage is less than the top minion’s strength, nothing 
happens. If the damage equals the top minion’s strength, the top 
minion is destroyed but the rest survive. If the damage is greater 
than the top minion’s strength, the leftover damage spills to the next 
minion down, possibly destroying it as well. Damage continues down 
through the abomination this way until what’s left can’t destroy the 
minion it’s reached. See p. 18 for more on damage to abominations.

Once you have no more cards you want to play and no more attacks 
you want to make, your turn ends. The player on your left now takes 
a turn.
Enemies’ Turns 
On enemies’ turns, the only thing you can do is respond when 
attacked. You can have your untapped abominations block (unless 
they’re one-minion abominations), and you can play combat fates 
and combat minions.
Abilities 
This section covers general ability concepts. Refer to the glossary for 
rules on how speciﬁc abilities work and what speciﬁc terms mean.
General Rules 
When an ability conﬂicts with the rules or when two abilities conﬂict 
with each other, follow these general rules: (1) Cards trump rules. If 
a card directly contradicts the rules of the game, the card takes 
precedence. (2) “Can’t” trumps “can.” If one card or effect says 
something can happen and another says it can’t, the “can’t” wins. 
(3) Do as much as you can. If an ability has you do something you can 
only partly complete, do what you can. For example, if an ability has 
you discard two and you have only one card in your hand, discard 
just that card.
Simultaneous Abilities 
Sometimes two abilities happen at the same time, such as when two 
abilities happen at end of turn. If playing a card triggers an ability, 
complete the card’s abilities (if any) before the triggered ability 

happens. In other such cases, abilities controlled by the player whose 
turn it is happen ﬁrst, followed by abilities controlled by the player to 
the left, and so on around the play area. If one player controls two or 
more simultaneous abilities, that player decides their order.
Main Abilities of Minions and 
The ability in a minion’s main text box usually applies to the abomination 
it’s in. For example, if a minion has Ripper, its abomination has Ripper. 
Some abilities apply only to individual minions. For example, if a 
minion has Regenerator, it can regenerate only itself. The glossary 
speciﬁes which abilities apply only to individual minions.
Effects and Abominations 
Whatever affects an abomination affects the top minion unless 
otherwise speciﬁed. For example, if an abomination gets 
–1 strength, the top minion is the one that suffers the loss. 
See p. 19 for information on 0-strength minions.
Dooms, Subtypes, and Abominations 
Some abilities refer to an abomination’s doom or subtype. 
An abomination’s dooms are the dooms of all its minions. Its subtype 
is that of its top minion.

This abomination’s strength is 
12. Its top minion has strength
6. It takes 5 damage, which 
isn’t enough to destroy any 
minions.

6 strength
1 strength
This abomination’s strength 
is 5. It takes 5 damage and 
is destroyed.
This abomination’s strength 
is 6. It takes 5 damage, which 
is enough to destroy the top
two minions but not the 
bottom minion.
1 strength
Damage to Abominations
Damage dealt to abominations starts at the top and goes down one 
minion at a time. 
Abilities that deal damage target abominations, not individual minions. 
(Individual minions are susceptible only to abilities that destroy, exile, 
or sever them.) If an ability deals damage to an abomination, treat 
the damage like combat damage. Apply it to the top minion ﬁrst, and 
spill extra damage over to lower minions. If damage dealt to a minion 
isn’t enough to destroy the minion, ignore the damage. You can’t deal 
some damage to a minion from one source and then ﬁnish that minion 
off with damage from another source.

0-Strength Minions 
Some abilities reduce strength. That might cause a minion to wind 
up with 0 or less strength. If a minion has strength below 0, it’s no 
different than 0.
A 0-strength minion is destroyed if it takes 0 damage. For example, 
if the minion above a 0-strength minion is destroyed with 0 damage 
left over, the 0-strength minion takes 0 damage and is destroyed. 
An abomination that has Ripper can assign 0 damage to destroy any 
0-strength minions.
Abilities and Destroyed Minions 
Sometimes losing minions to damage can change the way the 
abomination interacts with other cards. For example, if you have 
an abomination that gives a bonus to Undead abominations, then an 
abomination that has an Undead minion only on top loses
that bonus when that minion is destroyed. On the other hand, 
if only the second minion from the top is Undead, then the 
abomination gets the bonus when the top minion is destroyed.
Such changes apply only after all destroyed minions are removed. 
For example, the Survivor ability lets the top minion of an abomination 
shrug off some damage. Once the top minion is destroyed, Survivor 
doesn’t apply to the next minion right away. That ability won’t matter 
again until the next time the abomination takes damage.
One-Minion Abominations in Combat 
If an ability reduces an abomination in combat to one minion, 
immediately remove that abomination from combat. For example, 
if a combat fate damages an attacker, reducing the attacker to one 
minion, the attacker neither reaps souls nor exchanges damage.

Glossary
+: A sign that comes before or after a number. When it comes before a 
number, it indicates that the number adds to some other value and that 
similar bonuses add together. For example, an abomination that has 
Reaper +1 and Reaper +2 reaps 3 extra souls whenever it attacks and isn’t 
blocked. When a + comes after a number, it indicates that the number can 
be higher. For example, “Exile target strength 4+ minion” means “Exile 
target minion of strength 4 or greater.”
–: A sign that comes before or after a number. When it comes before a 
number, it indicates that the number subtracts from some other value 
and that similar penalties add together. When a – comes after a number, 
it indicates that the number can be lower. For example, “Destroy target 
strength 2– minion” means “Destroy target minion of strength 2 or less.”
« »: Symbols that bracket the text of a one-time effect, as in “«Draw 1.»”
: The symbol for tap abilities. You may tap the abomination to use its tap 
ability if the following conditions are met: (1) the abomination’s size is at 
least the given tap number, (2) the abomination is untapped, and (3) it’s a 
time when you could play combat fates (such as when you’re attacked).
abomination: A minion or stack of minions in play. A one-minion abomination 
can’t attack or block.
aggressor: A player whose abominations are attacking.
attack: Tap one or more of your untapped abominations to attempt to reap 
an enemy’s souls on your turn. One-minion abominations and abominations 
to which minions have been added this turn can’t attack.
block: Use one of your untapped abominations to stop an enemy’s abomination 
from reaping your souls. Your blocker and the attacker ﬁght. One-minion 
abominations can’t block.
combat damage: Damage that attackers and blockers deal to each other as 
a normal part of combat.

combat fate: A fate you can play during combat. You can play most combat 
fates either when you’re attacking or when you’re being attacked. You can 
play them outside of combat as well.
combat minion: A minion you can play during combat. You can play combat 
minions outside of combat as well, as normal minions.
conditional ability: An ability on some minions that takes effect when you 
play such a minion (from your hand) onto another minion of the correct 
doom. If the conditional-ability text box of the minion you’re playing 
matches the trigger color of the minion under it, the ability happens. 
Most conditional abilities are one-time effects (enclosed in these 
symbols: « »), which are optional and happen only if the minion is played 
from your hand. If a conditional ability has a continual effect, though, 
it happens regardless of where the minion came from.
continual effect: An effect that lasts as long as the card causing it is in 
play. For example, if a relic gives your abominations Rager +2, they have 
Rager +2 until that relic is destroyed. The opposite of a continual effect 
is a one-time effect.
cost: The number of mana cards you tap to play a card. At least one of those 
mana cards must match the card’s doom. If a card’s cost is 0 or less, tap 
no mana cards to play it.
damage: A force that destroys minions. Damage equal to a minion’s 
strength destroys it. Excess damage might destroy the minions below it. 
When the top minion is destroyed, apply the remaining damage to the next 
minion down.
deck: At least forty cards. You can have no more than three copies of any 
card in your deck.
destroy: Put into the graveyard.
discard: Put a card from your hand into your graveyard. You choose which 
cards to discard unless the effect says otherwise.

doom: One of four fundamental forces of evil—corruption, deceit, 
destruction, and greed. Each card belongs to a doom. Some cards work 
best in decks that combine certain dooms, such as a corruption minion 
whose conditional ability works only if it’s played on a destruction minion. 
Each effect has the doom of the card that generated it. A conditional effect 
has the doom of the trigger that created it.
enemy: Opponent. Also, a descriptor of something belonging to an opponent, 
as in “enemy abomination.”
Evader: An abomination with the Evader ability. It can’t be blocked by 
abominations of the given doom. For example, a Greed Evader can’t be 
blocked by abominations that have greed minions.
exhume: Take one or more cards from a graveyard and put them into their 
owner’s hand.
exile: Return one or more cards to their owners’ hands.
Fanatic: An abomination with the Fanatic ability. It can attack even if you’ve 
played a minion on it this turn. (It still can’t attack if tapped.)
fate: A type of card that has a one-time effect and goes into your graveyard 
when you play it.
Follower: A minion with the Follower ability. After “Follower” is an ability 
that’s active only while you control a god.
Guardian: An abomination with the Guardian ability. It can’t attack.
god: A type of card, put into the play zone, that usually has both a 
one-time effect and a continual effect. It stays in play indeﬁnitely. If you 
play another god, sacriﬁce the old one.
graveyard: A face-up discard pile near your deck. You can look at the cards 
in any player’s graveyard anytime.
hand: The cards you hold before you play them. There’s no hand-size limit.

Host: A minion with the Host ability. You can play it only as a new abomination. 
(You can’t play it on an existing abomination.)
Hunter: An abomination with the Hunter ability. When a Hunter attacks, you 
may choose an enemy abomination, untap that abomination (if tapped), 
and force it to block the Hunter if able.
main ability: The ability in a minion’s main text box. It usually applies to the 
abomination the minion is in. Main abilities are usually continual effects, 
but sometimes they’re one-time effects that take place under speciﬁc 
circumstances.
mana: Doom energy that’s generated when you tap mana cards to pay costs.
You generate one mana for each tapped card. If you gain mana from 
other effects, you can spend it as if you had tapped mana cards to generate 
it. You lose the mana in your pool if an attack starts or a turn ends.
mana card: A card in the mana zone. You can add up to one card to your 
mana zone during each of your turns. You tap mana cards to pay costs.
mana zone: Where you put cards you want to generate mana. Cards in the 
mana zone are mana cards. Put them there untapped.
Martyr: A minion with the Martyr ability. When destroyed, it becomes a mana 
card instead of going to the graveyard.
minion: The type of card abominations are composed of. If an abomination 
has only one minion, it can’t attack or block. A minion is only a minion when 
it’s in the play zone; in other zones, it’s a minion card.
Nemesis: An abomination with the Nemesis ability. It and its minions can’t be 
targeted by abilities of the given doom. For example, a Corruption Nemesis 
can’t be targeted by abilities on corruption cards. Abilities that aren’t 
targeted affect the abomination normally.
one-minion abomination: An abomination consisting of only one minion. 
It can’t attack or block.

one-time effect: An effect that either ends at end of turn or lasts 
indeﬁnitely. If the effect changes card stats or overrides game rules, it 
lasts only until end of turn. If the effect moves cards or soul counters, 
as does exiling a minion, the move lasts indeﬁnitely. The opposite of a 
one-time effect is a continual effect.
Parasite: An abomination with the Parasite ability. You can’t play other 
minions on top of it.
play zone: The area where you play minions, relics, and gods. Cards count as 
minions, relics, and gods only while in the play zone. In other zones, they’re 
minion cards, relic cards, and god cards.
pool: The imaginary place that holds mana after you generate it but before 
you spend it.
put into play: Put a minion into the play zone on an abomination or alone. 
When an effect tells you to do this, you have the same choices as when you 
play a minion from your hand normally, but summon effects don’t happen.
Rager (+X): An abomination with the Rager ability. It gets +X strength while 
attacking.
reap: Take souls from an enemy. When one of your abominations attacks an 
enemy and isn’t blocked, it reaps a number of souls equal to its size (the 
number of minions in it). You get those souls.
Reaper (+X): An abomination with the Reaper ability. It reaps +X extra 
souls when it reaps.
Regenerator: A minion with the Regenerator ability. It goes to its owner’s 
hand when it would be destroyed.
relic: A type of card, put into the play zone, that usually has a continual 
effect. It stays in play indeﬁnitely.
retrieve: Search your deck for a card, show that card to all players, and put 
it into your hand. Then shufﬂe your deck.

Ripper: An abomination with the Ripper ability. When it deals damage, you 
may distribute that damage however you like among the blocker’s minions 
(not necessarily from the top down).
sacriﬁce: Destroy one of your cards. You can’t prevent this destruction, such 
as with a Regenerator.
sever: Remove a minion from an abomination and put it in the play zone as a 
new, untapped abomination.
size: The number of minions in an abomination. If an attacking abomination 
isn’t blocked, it reaps a number of souls equal to its size.
Soulbound: A minion with the Soulbound ability. When it would be destroyed 
by combat damage, you may instead stitch it onto another of your 
abominations that has a top minion of the given doom.
souls: Points that players ﬁght over. When you have 20 souls or more, you win.
stitch: Move minions, by either putting them on an existing abomination 
or bringing them together to create a new one. Your minions can’t be 
stitched onto enemy abominations. If minions are stitched “together,” they 
start a new, untapped abomination. Stitching minions onto an abomination 
prevents that abomination from attacking that turn. Stitching doesn’t 
activate conditional abilities. If a stitched abomination ends up with more 
than 5 minions, sever the extra top minions.
strength: For a minion, the strength number on the card; for an abomination, 
the total of its minions’ strengths. When an abomination blocks or is 
blocked, it deals damage equal to its strength to the other abomination. If 
a minion takes damage at least as great as its strength, it’s destroyed.
strength +/–X: An effect that gives a strength bonus or penalty to an 
abomination or minion. Changes to an abomination’s strength affect the 
top minion. If a different minion becomes the top minion, the bonus or 
penalty applies to the new top minion. If a minion has strength below 0, 
it’s no different than 0.

subtype: A designator under a minion’s main text box (such as Beast or 
Undead) or under a fate’s name (such as Curse or Mishap). An abomination’s 
subtype is its top minion’s subtype.
summon effect: A conditional ability that’s a one-time effect. (Most are.)
Survivor (+X): An abomination with the Survivor ability. When it blocks 
or is blocked, it ignores the ﬁrst X damage dealt to its top minion.
tap: Turn sideways. You tap mana cards and abominations to show you’ve 
used them. You untap your tapped cards during the ready phase. Playing 
a minion on an abomination doesn’t affect whether or not the abomination 
is tapped.
target: Something you choose to take an effect. For example, “destroy target 
minion” means “destroy a minion of your choice.” If you can’t choose a 
target as speciﬁed, the effect doesn’t happen. You must have a legal target 
to play a fate that has a targeted effect. You can, however, play a minion 
on an abomination even if the minion’s conditional ability doesn’t have a 
legal target.
trigger: A triangular, colored area in one of four corners around the name and 
art of a minion card. Triggers activate conditional abilities.
turn: A sequence of phases from the ready phase to end of turn. Players take 
turns clockwise around the play area.
type: One of 4 card types: minion (including combat minions), fate (including 
combat fates), relic, and god.
unblocked: The status of an attacker the defender has decided 
not to block.
untap: Turn back to the normal orientation. You untap your tapped cards 
during the ready phase.
up to: From 0 to the given number, including 0 and the number.

X: Variable amount. When you see X in a cost, either you get to choose the 
number or it’s determined by its card’s ability. For example, the card Melt 
has a cost of X+2 and deals X damage to an abomination. If you pay 5 for 
Melt, it deals 3 damage.
zone: One of six locations: deck, hand, mana zone, play zone, graveyard, 
and the “removed from game” zone.
World Concepts
These are words from the worlds of the Hecatomb™ trading card game. 
These deﬁnitions don’t apply to game play.
abomination: Two or more minions fused into one. Abominations are linked 
spiritually to the endbringers that forge them. Abominations kill other 
endbringers’ true believers and channel that soul energy to their masters.
animates: Haunted objects that move with evil determination. They might be 
walking marionettes or rampaging bulldozers. Animates align themselves 
with deceit and greed.
apocalypse: The end of the world, and the goal of the endbringers.
aztecals: A race of minions native to Mesoamerica. Aztecals align themselves 
with corruption and destruction.
beasts: Unusual animals and bestial monsters, mostly aligned with destruction 
and greed.
corruption: The doom of decay, mutation, and perversion. Corrupt minions 
include mutants and aztecals.
cultists: Mortals in the service of endbringers. 
deceit: The doom of lies, madness, and illusion. Deceitful minions include 
shapeshifters, animates, and mutants.
demons: Evil creatures from the plane of existence commonly known as Hell. 
They align themselves with all four dooms.

destruction: The doom of hatred, violence, and ruin. Destructive minions 
include beasts and aztecals.
doom: One of four fundamental forces of evil: corruption, deceit, destruction, 
and greed. Every sort of evil known to humanity is some combination or 
concentration of these four forces. For example, slavery is an expression of 
greed because it is an evil form of ownership.
endbringer: A mastermind of apocalypse, destroying worlds to amass 
legendary power. Endbringers struggle against each other, ﬁghting over the 
energy released by the destruction of true believers and worlds.
fate: Mortals trust fate; endbringers warp it. Endbringers throw spells, wield 
weird-science weapons, and instigate mishaps in order to give themselves 
and their abominations an edge.
god: One of several supreme supernatural entities. The gods worshiped, 
manipulated, and summoned by endbringers are all evil. A god usually 
aligns itself with a single doom.
greed: The doom of needing, grasping, and hoarding. Greedy creatures include 
animates, beasts, and the undead.
mana: An insubstantial, supernatural energy. Mana is aligned with the four 
dooms. Endbringers use their occult knowledge to channel mana and use 
the mana to control minions, attune relics, and alter fate itself.
minion: A natural or supernatural creature. Since the endbringers did not 
create these creatures, they cannot establish spiritual links to them. 
So endbringers merge minions into new creatures, called abominations, 
and create the spiritual link to them required for reaping.
mutant: A creature that has been turned from one thing into another, 
especially from a good thing into an evil thing. Mutants most commonly 
align themselves with corruption and deceit.

outsider: A creature from beyond the boundaries of reality. Some endbringers 
think outsiders are here to destroy this universe just as the endbringers 
seek to destroy the latest world.
reap: Channel soul energy. When an abomination kills true believers devoted 
to a rival endbringer, the abomination reaps the true believers’ soul energy 
for its master.
relic: A powerful item, usually with strange powers. Some items are mythic, 
such as the Signet of Loki. Others are the products of disordered science, 
such as the Skykiller.
shapeshifter: A creature that can change form, such as a werewolf 
or kitsune.
true believer: A mortal whose faith is so strong that an endbringer can use 
that faith to bring about apocalypse. Endbringers race to amass the most 
true believers, and those who get impatient send their abominations to reap 
other endbringers’ true believers.
undead: Remnants of dead mortals given the semblance of life. Undead mostly 
align themselves with greed.
victory: Destruction of the world. When an endbringer ﬁnally has enough 
soul power, they use it to destroy the current world. In so doing, the 
endbringer absorbs great power. Then the endbringer transfers to another 
world and begins recruiting true believers anew.
world: One of uncounted parallel earths. Endbringers have various theories 
about how many worlds there are, how many have been destroyed, 
and how many are left.

Questions?

U.S., Canada, Asia Paciﬁc, and Latin America
www.wizards.com/customerservice
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
P.O. Box 707
Renton WA 98057-0707
U.S.A.
Tel: 1-800-324-6496 (within the U.S.)
 
1-206-624-0933 (outside the U.S.)
U.K., Eire, and South Africa
Hasbro UK Ltd.
Caswell Way
Newport, Gwent NP9 0YH
UK
Tel: + 800 22 427276
Email: wizards@hasbro.co.uk
All Other European Countries
Wizards of the Coast p/a Hasbro Belgium NV/SA
’t Hofveld 6D
1702 Groot-Bijgaarden
BELGIUM
Tel: +32.70.233.277
Email: custserv@hasbro.co.uk
Keep these addresses for your records.
HecatombTCG.com

Credits
Original Game Concept: Paul Barclay, Brandon Bozzi, Mike Elliott, 
Aaron Forsythe, and Robert Gutschera
Game Design and Development: Mike Elliott (design lead), Henry Stern 
(development lead), Devin Low, Brian Tinsman, Mike Turian, 
and Jonathan Tweet
Base Set Design and Development: Brian Tinsman (design lead), 
Henry Stern (development lead), Bruce Cordell, Mike Elliott, Ryan Miller, 
Matt Place, Mike Turian, and Jonathan Tweet, with additional playtesting
by Nate Neiss, Cormac Russell, and Steve Warner
Rules Writing: Jonathan Tweet (lead), John Carter, Jessica Kristine, 
and Henry Stern
Editing: Jessica Kristine
R&D Leads: Andrew Finch (director) and Ryan Miller
Card Naming and Flavor Text: Brian Tinsman and Bruce Cordell
Story and World Development: Jonathan Tweet (lead), Bruce Cordell, 
and Brian Tinsman
Art Direction: Shauna Wolf Narciso and Dawn Murin
Graphic Design: Scott Okumura and Mia Brooks
Typesetting: Lisa Hanson
Brand Management: Wendy Wallace, Kyle Murray, and Justin Ziran
Production Management: Jane Flohrschutz and Stephanie Sharp
Production Development: Del Stephens and Ian Wilkinson
Thanks to all our project team members and the many others too numerous 
to mention who have contributed to this product.

Strength
Minion Card
Fate, Relic, or God Card
Conditional Ability
Name, Type and Subtype
Name
Type
Subtype (Fates)
©2005 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., P.O. Box 707, Renton WA 98057-0707, U.S.A. MADE IN THE U.S.A. 
All trademarks, including Wizards of the Coast, Hecatomb, their logos, and characters’ distinctive likenesses are 
property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. in the U.S.A. and other countries. Illustrations by Christopher Shy and 
Ben Templesmith. U.S. Pat. No. RE 37,957. Other patents pending. 
30095502000001 EN