CONCEPT AND GOAL OF THE GAME
After becoming shipwrecked, your group of castaways finds themselves 
on a desert island. At first, the surroundings seem like paradise, but life 
soon proves difficult. Water and food are scarce. It’s doubtful whether 
everyone can survive this diet. There is only one solution: Construct a 
large raft together. But don’t waste any time, because the clouds on the 
horizon suggest the arrival of a dangerous hurricane! 
At the end of the game, the players who manage to leave the island in 
time will win (assuming anyone survives that long!).

Example of a 5-player setup:
A
B
H
G
C
Choose the first 
player for the next turn.
Alarm clock
Allows you to steal a 
random card from each 
of 3 different players.
Sleeping pills
Wreckage Cards
CONTENTS AND SETUP
Put the 6 wooden balls in the bag. A 
Create a stack of the 12 Raft cards, and place it near the gameboard. B
Shuffle the 54 Wreckage cards, then deal: C 
• 4 random cards to each player in a 
	 3- to 8-player game.
• 3 random cards to each player in a 
	 9- to 12-player game.
Place the rest of the Wreckage cards face down 
in the card holder. D
Remove the Hurricane card 
(with an hourglass crossed 

D
F
E
12 Castaway Status cards
1 First Player card
Card holder
Weather cards
Hurricane 
card
out) and another 5 random cards from the 12-card
Weather deck. Shuffle these 6 cards, then 
place them under the rest of the Weather card 
deck, which goes on the board face-down. E
Place the Wood disc 
 on space 0 of the Raft 
track. F
Place the Water 
 and Food 
 markers 
on the survival track, according to the number 
of players: G
Number of 
players
Food
Water
Number of 
players
Food
Water
Place the 12 Castaway Status 
cards in a stack beside 
the board. H

First Player
card
Weather card
PLAYING THE GAME
The first player is the one who most resembles a castaway; 
this player takes the First Player card. Then the players 
will take turns in clockwise order.
During each phase of the round, you are allowed to 
discuss, negotiate, threaten…of course, with no obligation 
to stay true to your word… but at your own risk!
Summary of a round:
1. Change the first player
2. Reveal the Weather card
3. Each player takes one action
4. Check for survival
5. Check for game end
DETAILS OF A ROUND OF PLAY 
1. Change the first player 
(Skip this phase in the first round.)
Each time the first player’s turn comes around, this player passes 
the First Player card to the right. If the First Player is ever eliminated, 
the First Player card passes to the player on the right.
2. Reveal the Weather card
With each new round, the first player reveals 
the topmost Weather card from the deck, so the 
“precipitation” side is face up. 
3. Each player takes one action
In turn order, starting with the first player, each player chooses 
the action they wish to perform, among four possible actions (see 
Action Details, p. 6):
• Catch fish
• Collect water
• Gather wood to build the raft
• Search the wreckage

1 Water ration.
Water bottle
Water cards
Equivalent to 1 Water 
ration but makes you 
sick for one turn.
Filthy water
4. Check for survival
Once every player has performed one action, each survivor (player 
still in the game, including the sick) must receive 1 ration of water 
and 1 ration of food. 
A. Consuming Water (Droplet marker): 
If there are at least as many rations of water as there are survivors, 
subtract 1 ration on the survival track for each survivor.
Example: 
At the end of the 
round, there are 
6 players, and 
the water marker 
(Droplet) indicates 
8 rations; so 
there is enough 
for everyone. The marker moves to 2, and the players move on to 
Consuming Food. 
If there are fewer water rations than survivors, the 
players can use Water cards to move the marker 
up one or more rations. If this is still not enough, 
a vote is held to determine who will be deprived 
of water (see Voting, p. 10). After the vote, only a 
number of players equal to the number of available 
water rations will be allowed to remain. The others 
tragically die of thirst, and leave the game.
Example: At the end of the round, there are 6 surviving players, but 
there are only 4 water rations, so the players are short 2 rations. One 
player plays a Water card, so now they are only short 1 water ration. 
The players must vote to eliminate 1 player and move the water 
marker to 0 before moving on to Consuming Food.

1 food ration.
Sandwich
Food cards
3 food rations.
Can of sardines
Equivalent to 1 food 
ration but makes you 
sick for one turn.
Rotten fish
B. Consuming Food (Fish marker): 
Once the water rations have been “distributed”, the players are ready 
to consume food.
If there are at least as many rations of food as there are survivors, 
subtract 1 ration for each survivor, and the round ends.
If there are fewer food rations than survivors, the 
players can use Food cards to move the marker up 
one or more rations. If this is still not enough, a vote 
is held to determine who will be deprived of food 
(see Voting, p. 10). After the vote, only a number 
of players equal to the number of available food 
rations will be allowed to remain. The others 
tragically die of hunger, and leave the game.
Note: If a ration counter (food or water) is already at 0 at the start of this 
phase, there is no vote for that resource. Instead, the castaways that 
can spend a card depicting this resource survive, and the others die… 
unless another castaway is kind enough to help them, or they choose 
to use the gun…
5. Check for game end
After any votes, and adjusting the markers according to the number 
of rations consumed, check to see if the game ends (see End of the 
Game, p. 12). If not, the surviving players begin a new round with 
the First Player card passing to the right. 
ACTION DETAILS
1. Catch Fish
When you choose this action, draw a ball from the bag. The number 
of fish on the ball (1
,2
,3
) indicates how many fish you 
caught. Advance the Food marker (Fish
) that many spaces 
on the survival track on the board. Then return the ball to the bag.
 

Example: On his 
turn, Nate decides 
to go fishing, so he 
draws a ball from the 
bag; the ball depicts 
2 fish.
So, he advances the 
Fish marker 2 spaces 
on the survival track.
2. Collect water
When you choose this action, look at the number in the water 
droplet on the Weather card for this turn (it will range from 0 to 3) 
and advance the Water marker (Droplet
) that many spaces on the 
survival track on the board. Note that you cannot collect any water 
on an extremely sunny day (when the droplet depicts 0 
0 ): so be 
careful and plan for it!
Example: On her turn, Mary decides to search 
for water, so she looks at the number depicted 
on the Weather card for the turn. It shows a 2, 
so she advances the Droplet 2 spaces on the 
survival track.
Note: For both Fishing and Collecting Water, the limit 
of your reserves is 36: The survivors cannot collect any 
more than that. 
3. Collect wood to build the raft
To collect wood, you go to the forest, which is infested with snakes! 
You will safely find the first bit of wood at the edge of the forest;
when you choose to take this action, you automatically advance 
the Wood disc 1 step on the Raft track.

Status card, 
“Sick” side
Example: Adrian decides to go search 
for wood, so he starts by advancing the 
Wood disc 1 step on the Raft track.
Next, decide whether to explore 
deeper into the forest, taking your 
chances with the snakes. Announce 
how many more pieces of wood you wish to collect (from 1 to 5) 
and draw that many balls, all at once, from the bag. If all of the balls 
are white, you advance the Wood disc a number of spaces equal to 
the number of balls you drew. 
Example (continued): Adrian wants to press onward for 2 more 
wood, so he draws 2 balls. Because they are both white, he 
advances the Wood disc 2 steps on the Raft track.
If you draw the black ball, you have been bitten by a snake, and you 
become sick for one round (see Sick, p. 12). You do not advance the 
Wood disc (beyond the 1 free wood for taking the action).
Example: Ben also decides to collect wood. He starts by 
advancing the Wood disc 1 space on the Raft track, then 
he decides to draw 3 balls. Unfortunately, he draws the 
black ball 
. He does not advance the Wood disc any 
further, and he takes a Castaway Status card and places 
it in front of him, Snake side up (see Sick, p. 12).

1 Water ration.
Water bottle
resource cards
In case of food or water 
shortage, no shipwrecked 
player dies from thirst or 
hunger, but the counters 
are reset to zero. This 
card cannot be used to 
leave the island.
Fruit basket
Voodoo doll
Bring a player of your 
choice back to life at the 
beginning of a turn.
single-use cards
Anti-venom
Cures a snakebite. 
You do not get sick 
but lose all wood.
Raft card
Types of cards:
Whether you are bitten by a snake or succeed in 
collecting more wood, return the balls to the bag.
The Wood disc will circulate around the Raft track 
(from 0 to 6). As soon as it reaches the 6th space, 
add a Raft card to the Raft card space, and move the 
disc back to space 0. Each Raft card allows one surviving player to 
escape the island (see End of Game, p. 12). 
4. Search the wreckage
You draw the topmost 
Wreckage card from the ship’s 
hold, and add it to your hand of 
cards, without letting anyone else 
see it.
PLAYING A CARD
You can play the Wreckage cards in your hand at any time (unless they 
say otherwise). After you use a card, discard it immediately, unless it 
has a permanent effect.
Resource cards: water, food. You can play these 
for the good of the community to increase the stock 
on the survival track, or you can keep them for 
yourself, in case there is a shortage. You may give 
them to other players, too.
Special, single-use cards: anti-venom, voodoo 
doll, etc. These cards allow you to perform a 
specific action, and are discarded after use 
(unless the card says otherwise).

Gun
Permanent use. But card 
retrieved if its owner is eliminated.
Allows you to shoot 
down a player of your 
choice if you have a bullet.
Gun and 
Bullet cards
Bullet
Must be associated 
with Gun. Bullet is 
lost after use.
Key to a luxury car
This object is useless.
But feel free to show off!
useless cards
Quoridor 
boardgame
This object is useless 
 (but at least you will 
have a pleasant way 
of killing time).
Examples of cards 
with a permanent effect
Each turn, allows 
you to recover twice 
as much water. 
Flask
Permanent use. Card 
discarded if its owner is eliminated
Crystal ball
Allows you to vote 
last during each vote. 
Permanent use. Card 
discarded if its owner is eliminated.
Permanent cards: axe, flask, fishing rod, crystal 
ball, etc. When you wish to use one of these 
cards, place it face up in front of you. Then it 
can be used each round. If you are eliminated, 
the permanent cards that you have used are 
discarded (except for the gun).
You can use the Gun card with a Bullet card to 
shoot another player. Discard the Bullet card after 
using it, but keep the Gun card. If several players 
are armed, the first player to announce they are 
using a gun acts before any other player. If a 
gun is used to eliminate another player, the gun 
holder receives the victim’s hand of cards. The 
victim is out of the game. The Gun card is the 
only permanent card you can take from a dead person; discard any other 
permanent cards.
Useless cards: old undies, car keys, etc. These 
cards have no effect. But they can be exchanged 
with another player to trick them, for example.
VOTING
Votes are necessary in the event of a water or food shortage 
(or if the players must leave the island, but do not have enough seats 
on the raft). The first player of the round counts to 3, and everyone 
simultaneously votes against another player by pointing at that player. 
Whichever player has the most votes against him is eliminated. You 
are welcome to debate before voting in order to agree on a strategy. 
The first player decides when to end the debate.
A player eliminated by a vote due to a shortage can save their 
skin by playing a card of the missing resource. In this case, the 
castaway survives, and there is no need to re-vote. They could also 
shoot another player (if they have a gun and a bullet) to reduce the 
amount of castaways that need food and water.

Status card, 
“Dead” side
If several players receive the most 
votes, the player with the First 
Player card chooses which 
player is eliminated. The First 
player always gets to choose, 
even if he himself is one of the 
players tied for elimination
Example: In a vote between 7 
castaways, Ben and David each receive 
3 votes against them. Nate has the First 
Player card, and he decides to eliminate Ben, 
who had voted against him. Revenge is a dish best served cold!
Each vote must designate only one player. If you need to eliminate 
more than one player, then hold a series of separate votes. 
DYING OF THIRST OR HUNGER
After a shortage, the castaways designated by the votes die of thirst or 
hunger, unless they can discard a Water or Food card, respectively. A 
castaway who is saved from a vote this way cannot be eliminated for 
that resource during that same round. On the other hand, they can be 
designated for the other resource.
Example: Nate is designated by a vote following a water shortage. 
Fortunately, he has a Water Bottle card that provides him a personal 
water ration. Unfortunately, there is also a shortage of food, and the 
other castaways designate Nate for this as well. Because 
he does not have a food ration squirreled away, he dies of 
hunger and leaves the game. 
A castaway can also be saved by another player, who offers 
him a ration of Water or Food (whichever is appropriate).
A castaway who dies of thirst or hunger leaves the game: 
they receive a Castaway status card with the Dead side up. 
If they had played a Gun card, add that to their hand. Shuffle their 
hand cards and deal them to his left and right neighbor, alternating 
between them. Other permanent cards remaining in front of the 
eliminated player are discarded.

SICK
You can become sick because of a snake bite (“Gather wood” action) 
or by using the Filthy Water or Rotten Fish card. When sick, take a 
Castaway Status card, and place it Snake side up in front of you. While 
you are sick, you cannot vote at the end of this round (but of course 
you can be eliminated), and you can neither take an action nor play any 
cards in the next round. Return the Castaway Status card before Phase 
4 (Check for survival) of the next round, so you will be able to participate 
in the vote at the end of that round. 
Exception: If you are designated by a vote to be eliminated, you can 
still play a Water or Food card to survive.
Example: Ben goes searching for wood, but as luck would have it, he is 
bitten by a snake. The round ends and the survival check begins. There 
is enough water for everyone, but not enough food. A vote is required. 
Ben cannot vote, because he is sick. Everyone else votes against him… 
but fortunately, he has a Sandwich card, and saves himself. A new round 
begins, but Ben is sick and cannot take his action. Before the survival 
check, Ben discards his Castaway Status card, and can vote.
END OF THE GAME
The game can end 3 ways:
Leaving the island
At the end of any round, the surviving players can board the raft. In 
order to embark, the following conditions must be met: 
• The water and food rations must have been distributed already.
• There must be at least as many Raft cards built as there are 
survivors. 
• There must be at least 
1 ration of water and 
food remaining for 
each survivor (for 
the Trip).

Example: There are 4 players remaining at the end of the round, 
and the survival track indicates 8 water and 9 food. The players 
distribute the food, reducing the supplies to 4 water and 5 food. 
There are 4 Raft cards on the Raft card space on the board. The 
4 players have everything they need to embark and win the game 
(it is entirely possible for every player to survive and win).
Arrival of the hurricane
As soon as the Hurricane Weather card (with the hourglass 
crossed out) is revealed, the raft must leave the island at 
the end of the round; otherwise, all players lose! In order to 
embark, the same conditions to leave the island must be met 
(see p. 12); however, you are allowed to (and must) vote and 
make sacrifices in order to meet them:
•	The water and food rations must have been distributed already. 
•	There must be at least as many Raft cards as survivors; 
otherwise, hold votes to sacrifice enough players to make room.
•	There must be at least 1 additional ration of water and food 
for each survivor (for the trip); otherwise, hold votes to eliminate 
enough players until you have sufficient supplies for the voyage.
Note: You cannot use the Fruit Basket card as supplemental 
rations to embark.
Players eliminated in votes now must surrender their hand cards 
just like with normal votes.
The players who succeed in boarding the raft win the game.
Note: You are allowed to board the raft while sick (for example, you 
might need to eat some Rotten Fish or drink some Filthy Water in 
order to board).
Total failure
The game can also end if everyone dies of thirst or hunger at the 
end of a round. In this case, everyone loses!

TOURNAMENT MODE
Decide on a number of games to play, then decide whether you must 
play in cooperative or solitary mode:
Cooperative castaways: 
Only the castaways aboard the raft score points, and each one 
scores as many points as the number of players on the raft. At the 
end of the tournament, the player with the most total points wins.
Solitary castaway: 
The goal is to survive with as few companions left as possible, or 
even better, to board the raft alone. Boarding the raft alone earns 
you a number of points equal to the number of players that started 
the game. Each additional survivor means each survivor earns 1 
point fewer. So the more survivors, the fewer points. 
Example: In an 8-player game, a sole survivor would earn 8 points, 
2 survivors would earn 7 points each, etc.
VARIANT: VOICE OF THE DEAD
In this variant, the spirits of the dead from the isle are consulted for the 
big decisions. Eliminated players still take part in all votes, but obviously 
cannot be eliminated a second time.

Concept by: Laurence & Philippe Gamelin
Illustrations by: Jonathan Aucomte
WARNING ! Not suitable for children under 3 years, because small 
parts could be swallowed. Keep this information and address for 
future reference. 03-2017
GIGAMIC
ZAL Les Garennes 
F62930 Wimereux - FRANCE
www.gigamic.com
® & © 2017 Gigamic

SUMMARY
1- Change the first player
Pass the First Player card to the right.
2- Reveal the Weather card
The first player reveals the topmost Weather card from the deck.
3- Each player takes one action
Each player chooses one of these 4 actions to perform: 
Fish:
Draw a ball from the bag, and advance the Food marker
 a 
number of spaces on the survival track equal to the number of fish 
on the ball (1 to 3). Return the ball to the bag.
Collect water:
Advance the Water marker 
 the number of spaces on the 
survival track indicated in the droplet on the Weather card for the 
round (0 to 3).
Collect wood to build the raft:
Advance the Wood disc 
 1 step, then, if you wish, announce a 
number of balls to draw from the bag (1 to 5) and draw them. If the 
black ball is not among them, advance the Wood disc that many more 
steps. Whenever the disc reaches step 6, add a Seat on the Raft 
card to the board, and move the disc to 0. Return the balls to the bag.
Search the wreckage:
Draw a Wreckage card and add it to your hand.
4- Check for survival
Consume Water
Move the Water marker 
 down a number of spaces equal to the 
number of survivors. For each water you are short, have a vote to 
choose whom to eliminate.
Consume Food
Move the Food marker 
 down a number of spaces equal to 
the number of survivors. For each food you are short, have a vote 
to choose whom to eliminate.
5- Check for game end
• All survivors can leave the island because there are 1 Raft, 
1 Water, and 1 Food for each survivor.
• The Hurricane has arrived. Hold votes until there are 1 Raft, 
1 Water, and 1 Food for each survivor.
• Everyone has died.