In the center of the Finnish capital Helsinki is the famous Senate Square 
with its Government Palace, University, Cathedral, and the Sederholm 
House.
It is your task to shape the market on the Senate Square, trying to 
connect as many pavilions with each other as possible. The cards from 
the display provide you with pavilion tiles that you will use to shape 
your own Senate Square. By constructing on certain spaces you will gain 
coats of arms tiles that you may exchange for special actions. Players 
must carefully plan how to place their tiles and choose which actions to 
take to win the game.
• 1 Senate board
• 1 Action board with scoring track
• 50 Pavilion tiles (double-sided)
– with 2-5 roofs, 10 each in five colors
• 12 Wild pavilion tiles 
– with one roof each
• 100 Pavilion cards
• 1 Player Board
• 8 Coats of arms
• 1 Statue
• 1 Player token
• 1 Scoring marker
• 4 Bonus cards
• 16 Visitors
• 30 Superstructures
5 Covering tiles
1 Starting token
• 1 Rules booklet
Consisting of two parts to be 
assembled before playing the 
game.
3x 2:
3x 3:
3x 4:
1x 5:
18 cards each in five colors plus 10 wild cards
Consisting of three parts to be 
assembled before playing the game.
Components
Game Concept and Object of the Game
Individual player components
(in four player colors red, green, blue and yellow):
Components for the expansion "Dry roads"
Shared components
low):)
A game by 
Daniel Skjold Pedersen 
& Asger Harding Granerud for 
2-4 players of 10 years and up.

1) Place the senate board in the center of the playing area. 
Shuffle all pavilion cards and stack them face down as a draw 
pile on the corresponding space. Next to the deck is a space for 
the discard pile. Draw eight cards from the draw pile and place 
them face up on the eight display slots between the buildings.
2) Sort the pavilion tiles by color first, then by their shape. Put 
them within reach of all players next to the senate board as a 
common supply. Put the the superstructures next to these tiles.
4) Each player chooses a player color and takes the 
following components in their color:
• 1 Player board, showing the same buildings on its four edges 
as the senate board. Each player places their board in front of 
them in the same orientation as the senate board in the center.
• 8 Coats of arms, placing them on the designated roofs (color 
dots) of their player board.
• 1 Statue, placing it on the center roof of their player board.
1 Scoring marker, which they place on the "0" space of the 
• 1 Player token
5) Give the starting token to the youngest player, who places 
their player token on any senate space of the senate board. 
Other players follow in a clockwise direction, placing their 
player token on every other senate space (also clockwise). 
Setup – example for a game with four players
Draw pile
Senate space
Discard pile
Column
Row
Building grid
Consisting of 49 roofs:
7 rows and 7 columns
Meadow
Storage space for over-
built coats of arms
 In a game with three players:
Before shuffling the cards, remove 
two "1" and one "5" cards of each
color plus four wild cards. Return 
these cards to the game box; you 
will not need them for this game.
 In a game with two players:
Before shuffling the cards, remove two 
each of "1," "2," "3," and "4" cards 
of each color, as well as any one "5" 
card plus six wild cards. Return these 
cards to the game box, you will not 
need them for this game.

3) Place the action board next to the senate board.
For your first game session we recommend cover-
ing the bottom row of the action board with the 
5 covering tiles. These actions are not available 
during this game session. 
After having played a few games you won't need 
the covering tiles anymore and will have more 
 actions to choose from.
Keep the wild pavilion tiles below the action 
board.
6) Finally, each player draws two pavilion cards 
to their hand, then the game can start! Return any 
unused components to the game box.
Sequence of play
1) Move your player token
2) Draw cards or build a pavilion
Helsinki is played over a series of rounds, with each round beginning with 
the playing holding the start token. The other players follow in clockwise 
direction.
When you are the active player you must first 
Then you must decide to either:
It then becomes the next player’s turn. 
The game ends after the round in which the final card from the draw pile has 
been revealed or drawn. If necessary, after the last card is revealed, shuffle the 
discard pile and use it as a new draw pile for the final round. Once this final 
round is finished, proceed to final scoring. 
You must move your player token 1-3 spaces clockwise – you are not 
allowed to stay in the same space. More than one player token may occupy a 
senate space.
Then you must decide one of two possible actions:
Each senate space is adjacent to two pavilion cards, one to the right and one to 
the left. Add the two cards adjacent to the senate space where your player token 
is, to your hand, then refill the two empty spaces with two cards from the draw 
pile. Each player's hand limit is seven cards. If a player has more than seven 
cards after drawing cards, they have to discard down to seven immediately and 
place any excess cards of their choice on the (face up) discard pile. 
2a) Draw cards
Green pavilion tile (3 roofs)
Green pavilion card
Each pavilion tile has 3 features:
• Shape | • Color | • Number of roofs
Important: The colors of the pavilion cards are not 
player colors! Each player may choose from all colors to 
build pavilions on their player board.
Superstructures
Indicates how many 
superstructures will be 
put on this pavilion tile, 
once it is built. 
Color frame
Indicates the color of 
the card.
Card number
Indicates how many 
cards you need to build 
this pavilion tile.
Pavilion tile
This pavilion tile can be 
built with this card.
1) Move your player token
2) Draw cards or build a pavilion

Example: If you want to build a pavilion shown on a blue "5" card, you have 
to play any four additional blue cards.
=
To build a pavilion tile, you must have a card in hand that shows 
the shape you want to build on the card, and the tile must still be 
available in the supply. 
If this card shows any superstructure icons (1 or 2), take that 
many superstructures from supply. They will be used after the 
tile has been placed on the game board (see next page "The 
superstructures").
You must also play a number of cards of the same color as 
indicated by the number at the top of the card. The card that shows 
the desired tile counts towards the total number of cards played.
The “1” card is played on its own if you want to build the shown 
pavilion. The “2”, “3”, “4” and “5” cards must always be played 
with any required additional cards of the same color.
After adding the pavilion to their player board, the player puts 
their played cards on the discard pile.
1. Playing cards
Note: A card showing a pavilion tile that is no longer available 
from the common supply cannot be used to build that pavilion. It 
can only be played as a required additional card of that color. 
The wild cards
The wild cards do not have a number in their top corners 
and thus cannot be played on their own. However, they are a 
substitute for any color and can be played to reach the required 
number of cards of a specific color. Any number of wild cards 
can be played in a group to reach the required number of cards. 
Players want to completely fill rows and columns on their player boards, and to do that you will need to build pavilion tiles. To build a 
pavilion, you play a specific number of cards from your hand, then place the tile on your board with the orientation depending on your 
position on the senate board.
2b) Building a pavilion

Example: A player pushes the green "4" tile toward the center of their board 
from the left side (yellow).
Example: A player plays three 
blue cards. The "3" card shows 
a superstructure, so they take 
both the tile shown on the 
card and the superstructure 
from the common supply. After 
having added the tile to their 
player board, the player puts 
the superstructure on a roof of 
that tile. 
Once you have taken a pavilion tile, you must add it to your player board.
The following placement rules apply:
1) You have to push the tile toward the center of your player 
board from that side corresponding to the side of the senate board 
where your own player token currently is.
2) You must push the tile toward the center of your board until it 
hits the statue or another tile (edge to edge, not corner to corner). 
Each player's very first tile must hit the statue.
3) Before you start pushing your tile, you may rotate and flip it 
in any direction you like. 
4) Each tile must fit the grid completely, no parts may be outside 
the grid.
= 1 card
2. Adding the pavilion tile
Bonuses
If the pavilion tile you just built touches another pavilion tile 
on your board of the same color (edge to edge, not corner to 
corner) you draw one card from the draw pile as a bonus.
The superstructures
If you gained any superstructures this turn, they must 
immediately be placed on any roof(s) of the pavilion tile you just 
built.
Each roof can hold only one superstructure. At the end of the 
game, superstructure will grant points if built in complete rows 
and columns.
The coats of arms
On certain spaces of each player board there are coats of arms. 
Whenever a player places a pavilion tile over a coat of arms, 
they store it on the meadow of their player board. Any coats of 
arms from a player's meadow may be used during this or any 
later turn to perform actions shown on the action board.
Senate board
Player board

The action board and its actions
The action board depicts 15 different actions which players may use during their turn in 
addition to the actions described above. When using such an action, the player must place a 
coat of arms from their meadow onto the action they want to use and then perform it. More 
than one action may be performed this way during a player's turn. However, each player can 
only use actions that are not yet covered by their own coat of arms, meaning they may only 
perform each actions once a game. 
These actions expand or modify the basic rules explained above, or allow completely new options. Some actions affect the movement of 
the player's token, others relate to the wild tiles or how to play cards. 
The following 15 actions are available:
You may advance your 
player token 1-6 spaces on 
the senate board, instead of 
1-3 spaces.
You gain two wild pavilion 
tiles and must add them 
to your player board 
 immediately. They may be 
You may push a pavilion tile 
onto your board from any 
side, no matter where your 
player token currently is. 
You may draw one card from 
the draw pile in addition to 
the two cards adjacent to 
your player token. Add all 
You take one superstructure 
more than shown on 
your played card. If no 
superstructure is shown, you 
You may advance your 
player token 1-5 spaces on 
the senate board, instead of 
1-3 spaces.
You gain one wild pavilion 
tile and must add it to your 
player board immediately. 
They may be placed in any 
You may build a second 
pavilion tile during this turn. 
You have to play cards for it 
as usual.
You need one fewer card to 
build a pavilion tile.
You may move a built 
 superstructure to any other 
roof, it does not have to stay 
on the same tile. 
You may move your player 
token on the senate board 
1 space counter-clockwise, 
 instead of 1-3 spaces forward.
Ignore your hand limit for 
one round: you may keep 
more than 7 cards until the 
end of the next round. Then, 
During your turn, you may 
draw cards and build a 
pavilion tile.
You may play any one card 
as a wild card.
You gain two points. 
Advance two spaces on the 
placed in any space that touches (edge to 
edge) another pavilion tile or wild pavilion 
tile.
cards to your hand (check for hand limit).
still take one. 
space that touches (edge to edge) another 
pavilion tile or wild pavilion tile.
you have to discard down to seven again. 
Example: If you want to build a pavilion tile shown 
on a purple “4” card, you have to play only three 
purple cards.
Example: If you want to build a blue “4” pavilion 
tile, you need only three blue cards and one card of 
any other color. 

The game ends after the round in which the final card from the draw pile has been revealed or drawn. If necessary, after the last card is 
revealed, shuffle the discard pile and use it as a new draw pile for the final round.
Once this final round is finished, proceed to final scoring for each player. Advance your scoring marker on the scoring track 
accordingly.
The player with the most points on the scoring track is the winner of the game!
In case of a tie for the most points the involved player who is behind in player order is the winner.
Pavilion tiles:
• 
2 points for each complete row.
• 
2 points for each complete column.
Superstructures:
Evaluate the superstructures in the following order:
1) 3 points for each superstructure at the intersection of a 
complete row and a complete column. Remove the superstructure 
from the board, it will not give any further points.
2) 1 point for each superstructure in a complete row or column.
Note: Superstructures in incomplete rows or columns do not give 
any points.
Note: The center space with the statue counts as 
a built space.
End of the game & final scoring
C
Example of final scoring
Pavilion tiles:
2 complete rows = 4 points
3 complete columns = 6 points
Superstructures:
1) 3 superstructures in an intersection 
(of a complete row and column) = 9 points
2) 1 superstructure in one complete row = 1 point
2 superstructures in a complete column = 2 points
 0 points for the superstructure in the incomplete row/column.
Grand total 22 points.
C
Rows
1 Point
3 points
3 points
1 Point
Columns

1) Depending on player count put the following bonus cards as a 
display on the table.
For a greater variety you may cover any 5 actions on the action 
board with the covering tiles. These actions are not available 
during this game session. 
This way each session of Helsinki will be different.
2) Each player takes four visitors and places them on the 
crosswalks on their player board. These visitors stay put for the 
whole game. 
Bonus card 3
Bonus card 5
Bonus card 7
Bonus card 9
2 players
3 players
4 players
Players are trying to build their pavilion tiles in a way that all their 
four visitors waiting on the crosswalks are connected with each 
other via the pavilion tiles. 
As soon as a player has achieved this goal, they take the available 
bonus card with the most points and score these points on the 
The bonus points are 9 – 7 – 5 – 3 points. The sooner a player can 
claim a bonus card, the more points they earn.
All other rules and ways of scoring remain unchanged.
Changes in setup:
Changes in Setup:
Changes in game play:
Expansion: Dry roads
Variant: New challenges
© Copyright 2022 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.