BOX CONTENTS
SETUP
ARMY CREATION
ACTION!
p.3
p.5
p.5
p.6
p.6
p.7
p.7
p.8
p.9
p.10
p.10
p.11
p.13
p.13
p.14
p.15
p.16
TERRAIN AND
TERRAIN OVERLAYS
RECRUITMENT OPTIONS
SPECIAL ABILITIES
Heroes of Normandie, Heroes System (tactical scale) is a game system 
designed by Yann & Clem. 
Graphics & illustrations: Yann, Clem, Alex, & Olivier
Rules: Clem & Fred Rereading: Axel and the community (Thank you!)
Scenarios: Yann, Clem, Fred, & Laurent
Translation: Nathan Morse Editing: Jeff Quick
Thanks: Fred de l’Oeuf Cube, Eric de Starplayer, Charles Borral, 
Mekon, G. Uitz, la mère à JC, Esquinox, Expectral, johan hermans, 
Omphalos, Pierre Rousseil, Neil (meeples miniatures), Gabriel Stetchi, 
MOSHIN’ JOSH, Mark Mackin, Jeremiah Terry, our wives for their 
patience, our kids for their lack of patience... and a huge thanks to 
all the people who supported us during this amazing Kickstarter 
campaign! A huge thanks to the community too!
Version 1.2b, August 2014
Heroes system tactical scale™, Heroes of Normandie™, all images and illustrations, and the 
Devil Pig Games™ logo are properties of Devil Pig Games Ltd.
No commercial use is allowed without Devil Pig Games authorization. 
© Devil Pig Games 2014
p.19
Character Traits
MULTIPLAYER RULES

BOX CONTENTS
6 Terrain boards
3 Buildings
4 One-space Defensive positions
1 Two-space Defensive positions
6 Bonus tactics
9 Objective markers
1 German officer recruitment tile (Major Hans Gruber)
2 German recruitment tiles (Panzer Lehr)
11 Infantry unit counters (PZGR-Lehr-Regiment 901)
10 Infantry unit counters (PZGR-Lehr-Regiment 902)
2 Vehicle counters (PZGR-Lehr-Regiment 902)
23 German recruitment options (gear, supports, orders and character traits)
3 German hero recruitement options
3 German hero counters (2 units and 1 vehicle)
3 German common infantry unit counters
4 German common vehicles counters
14 German wood tokens
2 German dice
76 German Action cards
1 US officer recruitment tile (Cdt. John Marvin)
2 US recruitment tiles (4th Infantry Division)
11 Infantry unit counters (8th Infantry Regiment)
10 Infantry unit counters (22nd Infantry Regiment)
2 Vehicle counters (22nd Infantry Regiment)
23 US recruitment options (gear, supports, orders, and character traits)
3 US hero recruitment options
3 US hero counters (2 units and 1 vehicle)
2 US common infantry unit counters
4 US common vehicle counters
14 US wood tokens
2 US dice
76 US Action cards
1 Turn counter
1 Initiative marker
1 End marker
3 Event markers
92 Tokens (Equipment, Suppressed, Destruction, etc.)

Infantry
These counters represent the soldiers and certain infantry units with special 
equipment such as machine guns, anti-tank weapons, artillery, etc. These 
counters have two sides that hold all the information you need to use them 
without having to consult the rules all the time.
The back of a counter often depicts the same unit as the front, with reduced 
traits (for when the unit has suffered a hit). Sometimes the defense value is 
higher to reflect the difficulty of hitting reduced numbers, but more often it’s 
lower, due to reduced unit efficiency.
In some cases, such as machine guns, the two sides of a counter have the 
same number of men in different firing positions.
Light Vehicles
These counters are larger than infantry. They represent vehicles used 
for transport, reconnaissance, or support. They have two sides, one 
representing the vehicle in good order, the other representing the wreck of 
the destroyed vehicle. 
Once destroyed, a light vehicle becomes an obstacle acting as a terrain overlay.
Light vehicle wrecks can be removed from the terrain during the game, 
according to certain rules.
Heavy Vehicles
These counters are larger than infantry. They represent tanks and heavily 
equipped vehicles.
They are centerpieces on the battlefield, but beware: They are vulnerable if 
not supported by infantry.
Once destroyed, a heavy vehicle becomes an obstacle acting as a terrain overlay.
Heavy vehicle wrecks can be removed from the field during the game, 
according to certain rules.
Recruitment Tile and Recruitment Options
We tried to capture the organization of each army, but obviously, we made a 
few compromises to avoid bogging down the rules and the game.
The recruitment tile is the nucleus of your army. All your units revolve 
around it. Each recruitment tile represents the heart of a platoon, or even 
a single officer.
A recruitment tile can give an extra order star or a special ability, found at 
the upper-left corner of the tile.
Note: Recruitment tiles have a cost in army points, indicated on the tile.
Recruitment Options
To this recruitment tile, you add recruitment 
options. These options are infantry, vehicles 
and/or additional equipment.
Note: Recruitment options have a cost in army 
points, indicated on the option selected.
Heroes
Heroes of Normandie would not be what it is 
without its heroes!
Heroes are not recruitment options and 
therefore do not need to be associated 
with recruitment tiles. But some cannot 
be 
enlisted 
without 
the 
proper 
recruitment tile.
Terrain
Terrain represents the battlefield.
It is composed of terrain boards which you can 
arrange to create a large number of different 
combinations. 
Elements printed on them, like groves and forests, 
have a tactical impact on the game.
Terrain Overlays
These tiles can be arranged on the terrain boards to 
create different battlefields. These decorative tiles 
can be buildings, thickets, defensive positions, etc.
Cards
Action cards allow you to spice 
up the game and make it more 
dynamic.
Each player has a deck of cards, 
according to the faction he leads.
Markers
Markers are detailed and explained in their respective chapters.
Division Insignia
This unit belongs 
to the 4th Infantry 
division.
Unit name
If written in red, it means 
the unit suffered damage.
This token can move up 
to 4 spaces.
Combat bonus 
against infantry
This token adds 2 to 
its dice result against 
units with yellow 
defense.
Defense
Here, a yellow defense 
(infantry).
A result of 6 or more is 
needed to cause a hit to 
this token.
Combat bonus against 
light vehicles
This token adds 1 to its 
dice result against units 
with purple defense.
Combat bonus against 
heavy vehicles
This unit cannot damage 
units with a gray 
defense.
Special Abilities
Here: Order x2, 
Assault, and 
Limited Range
(4 spaces)
Hit
This icon means that 
the unit can take a hit 
before being eliminated.
Outline
Yellow is for officers,
Red for heavy weapons, and 
any dark colour for heroes.
Front 
Side 
Side 
Back 
Primary weapon (red)
and its special abilities.
Secondary weapon (yellow)
and its special abilities.
Front
Order or additional
Special Ability
Granted only if the slot is filled 
with a Recruitment option.
Cost (expressed in army points)
Some scenarios allow you to build
your army by spending army points.
Breaking points
Amount of units to eliminate in 
order to gain the victory points 
listed on the back of the tile.
Division insignia and 
specific badge 
Recruitment tile 
name

Scenarios
Choose a scenario. We recommend you start with the first scenario, 
because the scenarios progress in complexity.
Select the units as explained in the scenario’s “Composition of the 
Armies” chapter, and set up the terrain as shown in the battle plan.
You can also generate a scenario using the Player Generated Clashes 
(see Scenario booklet, p.14-15).
You must assemble your forces using a certain number of army points, 
as determined by you and your opponent.
Cards 
Before you start playing, create your deck of cards. Choose at least 
40 cards for your deck from the 76 available, or follow the instructions 
given by the scenario.
You can only use the cards of your faction.
You cannot choose command cards (Artillery 
or Aviation) if you do not have recruitment 
options that permit you to do so.
These cards do not count against the 40 cards 
that you must select.
At the beginning of the game, each player draws the first 4 cards from 
his deck.
Deployment
First, determine initiative (defined by the scenario or any other 
technique you like). Then, deploy your troops in the zones defined 
by the scenario. The player with initiative deploys all his troops first. 
Deploy infantry units so that the side with their name in white is face-
up. If the name is printed in white on both sides, you can choose which 
side is face-up.
It is not advisable to deploy your vehicles wreck-side-up!
Now, the game can commence....
Victory Conditions
A game plays out over no more than 8 rounds, or to a number of rounds 
determined by the scenario.
If you reach the scenario’s victory condition, or a player no longer has 
any order tokens to place on units, the game ends at the end of the 
current round.
(It goes without saying that if a player no longer has any units or orders, 
he has lost the game!)
To win, you must meet the requirements presented in the scenario. 
To win a free scenario, you must earn a certain number of victory points 
(determined at the outset).
These victory points are earned by controlling objectives (primary or 
secondary, see Scenario booklet, p.2), and by inflicting damage to your 
opponent (see Breaking Point).
Breaking Point
When a unit is eliminated, place the token below its corresponding 
recruitment tile or recruitment option tile. When the recruitment tile 
reaches its breaking point, turn the tile or option over. Your opponent 
earns the points indicated immediately.
The breaking point of a tile or of a recruitment option is represented by 
red squares. When the number of units destroyed equals the number of 
red squares, you have reached the breaking point of the tile.
If a destroyed unit belongs to
both a tile and a recruitment option,
you must assign the loss to the option.
If the option or tile provided a special bonus, it is lost. Units and 
recruitment options like equipment, character traits, and orders are 
not lost when you reach the breaking point of a recruitment tile.
SETUP
ARMY CREATION
Allocating Losses
Creating Armies
Once you define the number of army points, it’s time to assemble 
your forces.
Buy Recruitment Tiles
You must first buy as many recruitment tiles as you want, within the 
limits of your available points.
Everything revolves around these recruitment tiles.
You must have at least one recruitment tile to assemble your army on 
the battlefield.
Do not spend all your points on these tiles. You will need some 
points left over to flesh out your recruitment options.
Buy Recruitment Options
To purchase a recruitment option, it must be the right size to fit into 
the opening in the recruitment tile, and the colored bands on each side 
must correspond to at least one of those surrounding the opening. 

A game round is divided into 3 phases:
1) Orders Phase
2) Activation Phase
3) Supply Phase
During this phase, players alternate placing an Order 
token of their choice on a owned unit of their choice, 
until all Order tokens have been placed.
The player with the initiative starts.
One Order token per unit, no more!
Units having thus “received” an order may then act during the 
Activation Phase.
The loss of an Order, Special Order, and Bluff token is resolved 
without having to reveal it to the opponent.
Order Tokens
To determine the number of Order tokens (numbered 1 
to 10) you are entitled to, count the number of stars on your recruitment 
tiles (regardless of color), on certain units (generally officers or heroes), 
and on certain options.
For example, if you have 5 stars on your recruitment tiles, option, and 
heroes, you take the Order tokens numbered from 1 to 5. Five units will 
be able to act during the Activation phase.
You can never have more than 10 Order tokens!
When you lose a unit that was providing one or more Order tokens, you 
must accordingly reduce the number of tokens that you collect at the 
end of the Supply Phase.
Bluff Tokens
In addition to your Order tokens, you also have a 
Bluff token you can use to misdirect your opponent. 
This token, whose back looks just like an Order token, 
is placed at the same time as your real Orders. A Bluff token does 
not activate a unit. Its sole purpose is to confuse your opponent by 
suggesting that the unit could be activated!
This token is considered an Order token, but doesn’t 
prevent a unit’s move during the Supply Phase.
Special Order Tokens
Special Orders can be obtained using the High 
Command action card or the Battle Plan recruitment 
option.
Remember that because this recruitment option is an order,
you must have recruited an Officer to be able to buy it.
You can never have more than two special orders.
Special Orders can be played before any other order placed on your 
units. They can be played as an “Order 0” and thus act before your 
“Order 1”.
They cannot, however, interrupt an activation in progress. If both 
players want to use a special order at the same time, the player who 
has initiative goes first.
ACTION!
Several types of recruitment options are available: support, equipment, 
character traits, and orders.
You can find a more detailed description 
at the end of this booklet.
 
Support 
These are infantry, artillery, or vehicles.
This is specific equipment that can be used by the units on the 
recruitment tile.
Each unit from a recruitment tile has access to any 
equipment assigned to the same recruitment tile.
It is not necessary to assign it to a particular unit.
If an equipment option is assigned to an 
Officer recruitment tile ( ), then it will be 
available to all units in your army.
Heroes have access to all equipment present in the army to 
which they belong.
Take the number of corresponding tokens indicated on the tile and 
place them on the option tile.
Character Traits
Character traits represent the specialties of certain soldiers 
or elite troops.
Orders represent planning and strategy put in place by 
high command.
These are bonuses that benefit your entire army and 
can only be obtained if you have purchased an Officer 
tile ( ) for your army.
Heroes
Hero options do not require space on a recruitment tile. They can be 
purchased in addition to all the recruitment options.
Some heroes wear a generic insignia ( 
), and can therefore 
support any recruitment tile of the corresponding army.
Others wear a specific insignia and can be incorporated in your army 
only if one of your recruitment tiles has the same insignia.
Once you spend all your army points,
take the corresponding units, and place the tokens
for recruitment options on those options.

The player with initiative starts.
First, the player reveals his Order number 1 and activates that unit.
The unit can take one of two actions:
⁃ Move/Assault
⁃ Fire
Once the unit has acted, the second player reveals his Order 1 and 
activates his unit. Continue, following ascending numerical order.
Once one player has no more orders to reveal, his opponent activates 
all remaining units in ascending order.
Leave the Order tokens beside the units, to differentiate those that 
have been activated during this phase from the others.
Activated Marker
Certain cards, such as Opportunity Fire, activate units who 
have no Order or who have not yet acted.
In this situation, place an Activated marker on the unit in 
question, when indicated by the card.
An unit that receives such a marker loses any order token that was 
assigned to it without revealing it. It can no longer perform an action 
that round (except defending itself during an assault).
It also will not be able to move during the Supply Phase.
Certain terrains and terrain overlays affect movement. They are 
described in detail in Terrain and Terrain Overlays, p.11.
Movement of Infantry Units
When a unit performs a move action, it can travel a number of 
spaces equal to or less than its Movement value (even 0).
⁃ Diagonal moves are allowed.
⁃ An infantry unit cannot pass through vehicles and enemy infantry. 
- Infantry units can pass through friendly infantry units. However, they 
cannot share the same space at the end of the move.
Zone of Control
⁃ Each infantry unit 
exerts a zone of control (ZoC) over the 8 
spaces adjacent to it.
If one of the spaces is separated from the unit by a symbol 
, then it is 
not part of the unit’s ZoC.
⁃ An infantry unit may not move from one square in an enemy unit’s 
ZoC to another square in that enemy unit’s ZoC.
 The Zone of Control of a unit in a building does not extend 
outside the building.
ZoC can prevent entering/leaving a building. For more details, see 
Buildings, p.12.
Movement of Vehicles
Each vehicle is represented by a counter large enough to occupy a little 
more than one or two spaces.
To move a vehicle occupying two spaces, count the number of spaces 
from the front of the vehicle.
If you want to move backward, count the number of spaces from the 
back of the vehicle.
During its move, a vehicle can rotate 45°. Vehicles can also rotate while 
stationary. It costs 1 movement point for each 45°.
If a vehicle ends its move diagonally, it is considered to occupy ONLY 
two spaces. This might result in some pieces overlapping.
It is possible for a vehicle to pass or end its move diagonally 
even if either of the two spaces on either side are inaccessible.
A vehicle is allowed to pass through a space containing an infantry unit 
(friendly or enemy). 
If the vehicle ends its move in a space occupied by an infantry unit, 
displace that unit into an adjacent free space, chosen by its owner.
If the infantry unit has no free space to which it can move (buildings, 
other units, ZoC, forbidden space, leaving the board, etc), or it has 
0 movement value ( 
), it is immediately eliminated and removed 
from the game.
Vehicles and Zones of Control
Neither light nor heavy vehicles 
exert ZoC. Therefore, enemy 
units can move freely through spaces adjacent to a vehicle. Unlike 
infantry, vehicles are not affected by ZoC exerted by infantry units.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-space vehicle
2-space vehicle

Only units with the Assault 
special 
ability 
can 
engage 
in melee against an enemy 
infantry unit or vehicle.
An assault can only be launched from 
a free space or a space belonging to a friendly vehicle with 
the Transport special ability (see p.18). It must be adjacent to the 
defender.
The attacker must follow the movement rules explained in the previous 
chapter, and must have enough movement points to move INTO its 
target space.
Assault must be announced before the assaulting unit begins 
moving and must be resolved, whatever happens.
Enemy ZoC doesn’t prevent a unit from moving into a space 
occupied by an enemy to assault it (move #2 in the picture below).
To symbolize the assault in progress, place the attacking counter 
overlapping its target.
In this example, the German unit A prohibits movement in its ZoC. 
The American unit enters the ZoC of the German units B and C with 
movement #1. The American unit can lead an assault on the German 
unit C, even if it’s moving into the ZoC of the German unit B, because 
this movement is an assault.
Resolution of an Assault
The attacker rolls 2 dice, keeps the higher roll, and adds the combat 
bonus corresponding to the type of enemy unit (against infantry , 
light vehicles 
, or heavy vehicles 
). 
He also adds any bonuses available (special ability cards, recruitment 
options, etc.) and subtracts any penalties.
A cross indicates that assault is not possible against a 
target of this type without special equipment.
The defender rolls 1 die (or 2 if the unit has the Assault special ability, 
keeping the higher roll), and adds its corresponding combat bonus, 
the defense bonus provided by the terrain element it’s in (except if 
the attacker and the defender are in the same defensive position or 
building), as well as any other bonuses available (special ability, cards, 
recruitment options, etc.). Then subtract any penalties.
If the defending unit is a heavy vehicle 
, you must use the 
secondary weapon (yellow outline) combat bonus.
The player with ​the higher result wins the assault.
Attacker Wins
- If the defending unit has the symbol 
, it is eliminated and the 
unit is removed from the game.
- If the symbol 
is present on a defending infantry unit, it takes a 
hit. Turn the counter over.
- Besides taking this hit, the infantry unit must immediately 
retreat into one of the three spaces away from the attacker.
This retreat is a movement.
If the unit cannot perform it, the unit is eliminated.
If none of these three spaces are accessible, then the defending infantry 
unit is eliminated and the unit is removed from the game.
Once the defender’s retreat is complete, the attacking unit must move 
into the defender’s former space, if it’s accessible. 
- If the defending unit is a light vehicle 
, it is destroyed. Turn it over 
to its wreck side. It becomes a terrain overlay.
- If the defending unit is a heavy vehicle 
, you must determine 
the damage location. (See Damage on Heavy Vehicles, p.9.)
A vehicle never retreats due to losing an assault.
Defender Wins
The attacker takes a hit.
- If the attacking unit has the symbol 
, it is eliminated. Remove 
the unit from the game.
- If the symbol 
is present on the attacking unit, it takes a hit. Turn 
the counter over.
Moreover, the attacking unit is pushed back to the last space it held 
before the assault.
The defender does not move and remains in its space. 
Tie
The attacker and the defender remain on their respective spaces from 
before the assault. No damage is applied.
Assault and Units with Firing Arc (see Firing Arc, p.9)
If a unit is assaulted from a space outside its firing arc, 
immediately assign it a Suppressed token and resolve the 
assault.
=10
+2
The unit cannot retreat
if it has to move through 
an enemy ZoC
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B

Range
Most weapons in Heroes of Normandie have unlimited range. 
However, beyond 7 spaces, shots suffer a −2 penalty to their 
final result.
When counting the number of spaces to your target, use 
diagonals, and ALWAYS take the shortest path. Count the target 
unit’s space, but do not count the firing unit’s space.
Firing Arc
Unless specified, units have a firing arc of 360°.
Weapons with a limited firing arc have a graphical 
representation of it.
Units with a limited firing arc must be positioned to 
have the front of the counter aligned with the edge 
of the space it occupies.
Shot Resolution
To resolve shots, roll a die.
To that result, add the combat bonus corresponding to the type of 
enemy unit (against infantry 
, 
light 
vehicles 
, or heavy 
vehicles 
).
Add any bonuses available (special ability cards, recruitment options, 
etc.). Subtract any penalties.
When the result is greater than or equal to the defense value of the 
unit in question, the latter takes a hit, as shown below.
- If the target has the symbol 
, it is eliminated. Remove the unit 
from the game.
- If the 
symbol is present on a targeted infantry unit, it takes a 
hit. Turn the counter over.
- If the target unit is a light vehicle 
, it is destroyed. Turn it over to 
its wrecked side. It becomes a terrain overlay.
- If the target unit is a heavy vehicle 
, you must determine the 
damage location.
If the result is at least double the value of the targeted 
unit’s defense value (plus any bonuses), the targeted unit is 
immediately eliminated from the game.
This rule also applies to heavy vehicles.
This is called a kill shot!
Damage on Heavy Vehicles
When a heavy vehicle is hit by a shot, or by losing an assault, the 
attacker rolls a die to determine where it was hit. Places the Damage 
marker in the corresponding location on the vehicle.
1 — Crew: You can fire with only one weapon each round.
2 — Track: The vehicle can no longer move. If it was in motion, 
it stops immediately.
3–4 — Hull: Place two Suppressed markers on 
the vehicle in addition to the Damage marker. If 
the vehicle was in motion, it stops immediately.
5 — Primary Weapon: The main weapon (red) 
of the vehicle is destroyed.
6+ — Destruction: The vehicle is destroyed. Turn it over to 
its wrecked side.
If a vehicle receives two Damage markers of the same 
type, it is destroyed. Turn the vehicle over to its 
wrecked side.
During the Activation Phase, a unit that does not move can fire.
In order to fire, make sure the attacking unit has an appropriate combat 
bonus against the target 
.
If there is an X in the location of the appropriate combat bonus, the unit 
in question cannot fire on this target. 
Most infantry units without special equipment cannot target a 
heavy vehicle.
Vehicles with several weapons can use all of their weapons during the 
same firing action and can choose a different target for each weapon. 
The shots are not made simultaneously. Heavy vehicles such as tanks 
often have at least a cannon and a machine gun. 
Note: If the vehicle is moving, verify that the weapons 
have the Fire on the Move special ability (p.17),
which is often the case with machine guns, but not with cannons!
Line of Sight
To fire on an enemy target, there must be a line of sight (LoS), which is 
to say that there can be no Obstacle blocking the LoS (See Obstacles, 
p.11).
To verify that the shot is possible, trace a line between the center of the 
attacking unit space and the center of the target space.
Some terrain and terrain overlays block line of sight, such as 
buildings. This symbol indicates which ones block LoS.
All infantry units block LoS unless the target
 
or the unit firing is a vehicle. Vehicles block LoS.
Whenever a two-space vehicle targets a unit, it can choose the center 
of either of its spaces as the starting point of its LoS.
Whenever a two-space vehicle is the target, the attacker may aim at 
the center of either of the two spaces.
Heavy vehicles have different defenses, depending on the angle of 
the shot. Attackers may choose either space to take advantage of a 
lower defense.
=6
vs
vs

During this phase, units that have not received an order and have no 
Activated marker can move (see Movement, p.7).
A unit that has received a Bluff token can move during this 
phase, because these tokens are not considered Orders.
A unit moving in the Supply Phase may use certain special abilities (like 
Ambush, p.16 and Tripod, p.18).
The Immutable Rule of the Supply Phase:
No firing or assault can happen 
during this phase!
The Supply Phase only allows units 
that have not yet acted to move. 
Execution of the Supply Phase
Resolve all effects linked to the beginning of the Supply Phase in 
this order: special abilities, action cards, recruitment options, scenario.
Discard the Bluff tokens placed on each player’s units.
Move any of your units that received neither Order nor Activated 
markers this round. The player with initiative plays first, and can move 
some or all of these units. Then his opponent does the same. 
Discard one and only one Suppressed marker per unit.
Resolve all effects linked to the end of the Supply Phase in this 
order: special abilities, action cards, recruitment options, scenario.
Discard as many cards as you wish. Then draw up to four cards in 
your hand (or more if some bonus permits).
Check the victory conditions.
Take the number of Order tokens to which you are entitled. Make 
sure it equals the number of stars you currently have (especially if you 
suffered losses). If you no longer have any units or orders, you lose the 
game!
Move the initiative marker one notch on the turn counter, and turn it 
over to determine the new initiative.
Then start a new round!
Action Card
Action cards must be used during the phases indicated in their 
description.
Playable Anytime
You can play as many cards as you want 
during a round, and even during a single 
action.
Everything you need to know
is printed on the card.
Each card has a certain number of 
copies. You can not incorporate
more than this number in your deck.
If the card contradicts a rule, the card overrides the rule (except for the 
Immutable Rule of the Supply Phase).
If two players want to play cards simultaneously, the player 
with initiative prevails.
Then the second player can decide whether to play his card or 
play another one.
Don’t hesitate to play cards.
You will draw new ones at the end of the Supply Phase.
If more than one card is played on the same action, resolve 
them starting with the last card played. Then go up the order 
of playing cards until the first card played. If a card has no valid 
target, its effect does not apply.
 Cards bearing one of the following symbols:
may only be included in your deck if you take 
the corresponding recruitment options.
These cards do not count toward the minimum 
of 40 cards required to build your deck.
AAA and Aviation Cards
When an Aviation card is played, make an anti-aircraft 
defense check before applying card effects:
Your opponent rolls a die. If the result is equal to or 
higher than the number in the anti-aircraft defense 
icon, discard the card and do not apply its effects. 
For every unit on the board with the Anti-Aircraft Artillery special 
ability (AAA), add 1 to the result of the die roll.
Initiative
markers
German event,
US event,
Scenario end,
Common event,

The symbols below indicate the effects of different terrain and terrain 
overlays.
These effects are applied to all spaces indicated by the colored contour 
of the terrain or the entire terrain overlay tile.
Structure
This overlay is a structure. To destroy it, you must inflict the number of 
demolition points printed in the symbol (see Demolition, p.17).
Once you reach this number, turn the terrain overlay over to its ruin 
side or remove it from the game.
Units within a structure are suppressed upon the structure’s destruction. 
Each unit in the building receives a Suppressed marker. The player 
with initiative must redeploy all of his units that were in the 
structure on the structure’s ruins. Once he has finished, his 
opponent does the same. 
 
When a heavy vehicle drives over a wreck, it inflicts 1 demolition point.
Defense
This element provides a bonus to the defense value of every infantry 
unit on one of its spaces. The value of this bonus is printed in the 
symbol.
Obstacles
This element totally blocks 
LoS or obscures 
LoS 
that crosses it.
For each space crossed by the Obscured LoS, subtract the value in 
the symbol from the final dice result. These penalties are cumulative if 
the Obscured LoS passes through multiple spaces (of one or several 
elements).
The target space does not count.
If the element is situated between two spaces,
this penalty does not apply to units in adjacent 
spaces on either side of the element.
Difficult Passage
When a unit enters this element, it must stop moving immediately. A 
unit within a Difficult Passage zone can move only one square when it 
moves. Its movement ends immediately after.
Impassable
No unit can enter this element.
Impassable to infantry, 
light vehicles, and 
heavy vehicles.
Impassable to Heavy and Light Vehicles
This element is impassable to heavy and light vehicles.
No Passage
It is impossible to pass between two spaces connected by this 
symbol. This also blocks LoS.
Only during the Activation Phase, an infantry unit that has not 
already been activated (by an Order token or by an Activated 
marker) and is on a terrain element or terrain overlay that has this 
symbol can fire at any time during the movement of an targeted 
enemy unit that crosses its Clear or Obscured LoS (after any use 
of the Fire on the Move Special Ability by the opponent). The firing rules 
are applied as explained on p.9.
If the unit fires, it loses any Order token it had and receives an Activated 
marker.
The targeted unit does not end its movement, even if hit or Supressed.
Water
This element is forbidden to units with no Amphibious special ability 
(See p.16). Units with this special ability can move normally (see 
Movement, p.7).
Examples
Thicket 
A small group of trees of various sizes.
- Does not hinder movement.
- The entire overlay slightly (not only the visual) 
obscures LoS.
- Provides a defense bonus to infantry units.
Hedgerow
The Norman hedgerows were a nightmare 
for the Allies.
Each embankment could hide a machine 
gun nest, artillery, or a squad of soldiers. 
Vehicles could not traverse them without 
preparation, and crossing them could be an 
ordeal even for an infantryman.
- Hedgerow spaces are impassable to light and heavy vehicles.
- Infantry must stop as soon as they enter. If they move within 
the grove, they must stop moving immediately after one 
space.
- Groves completely block LoS. 
- Infantry units get a defensive bonus if they are 
positioned in a grove space.
Forests 
From the heart to its edge, a forest is always a great 
place to hide.
- When firing on a unit in a forest, each forest space 
obscures LoS. The deeper the target is in the woods, 
the harder it is to hit.
- An infantry unit in a forest space gets a bonus to its 
defense value.
- Spaces in the heart of a forest are generally 
impassable to vehicles.
Defensive Positions
Sandbags, foxholes, and more, defensive positions take 
many forms and styles.
- Some obscure LoS. In this case, the entire layout 
obscures LoS.
- A unit inside a defensive position benefits 
from extra protection unless the firing or 
assaulting unit is also in the position.
- They allow infantry units to perform 
Opportunity fire during the Activation phase.
- You can throw a grenade inside a defensive position from a 
space adjacent to it. The blast is contained by the position and 
all units within the defensive position are hit. Units outside are 
not affected by the blast.
Units inside don’t benefit from the position defense bonus.
TERRAIN AND
TERRAIN OVERLAYS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clear Line of Sight
LoS that crosses no spaces with these symbols:
Obscured Line of Sight
LoS that crosses spaces with these symbols:
Blocked Line of Sight
LoS that crosses a space with this symbol:

Buildings
House, farm, barn, or shed, buildings can be of any 
type.
A unit can only enter from a spaces pointing in with a 
blue arrow.
Ignore half-spaces for movement.
A unit’s ZoC on one of these outside spaces prevents another 
unit from entering or leaving a building.
To fire out of a building, a unit must be in a space bearing marks that 
indicate an opening. 
These marks block LoS.
To fire on a unit inside a building, that unit must be on a space directly 
adjacent to an opening.
A unit inside a building benefits from extra protection unless the 
firing or assaulting unit is also in the building, or if a grenade is 
launched into it.
A unit launching a grenade into a building must be in a square adjacent 
to an opening indicated by red bands and pointed to by arrows.
All units inside a room are affected. They do not benefit from the 
defense bonus normally provided by the building.
The explosion is contained by the walls of the building, and therefore 
does not affect units in other rooms or outside.
You don’t need to use the blast template.
A unit with a blast pattern weapon cannot directly target an intersection 
inside a building.
A blast pattern that explodes outside a building can affect the building, 
but not the units inside directly (see Structure, p.11).
When throwing a grenade out of a building, the first intersection is 
situated on the half-space in front of the opening. 
(See german soldier A in the example below).
Some buildings completely block LoS. 
In this case, you have to take the visual of the building into 
account, not the entire overlay.
If two buildings are adjacent, only infantry units can pass 
between them.
If two buildings are diagonally adjacent, vehicles can pass or 
stop between them.
 
 
 
 
 

This section contains recruitment options that are not units.
General Rules
- Only units related to the same recruitment tile as the option can use 
a piece of equipment or benefit from the effects of a character trait.
- A recruitment option put on an Officer Recruitment Tile allows the 
entire army to benefit from the option.
- Equipment recruitment options must be discarded after use.
- Heroes can access all equipment present in the army they belong to.
- Unless otherwise stated on the counter, equipment that allows a shot 
(grenades, anti-tank weapons, etc.) is used instead of the unit’s shot 
(see Fire rules, p.9) and can be combined with Special Abilities such as 
Fire on the Move.
The same unit cannot take both a shot and use equipment that allows 
a shot.
- Equipment that provides a bonus, such as Ammo, is used as part of 
the action, but must be announced before rolling the dice. This bonus is 
added to the unit combat bonus.
Additional Shielding
This option gives you 3 extra Additional Shielding.
They can be used only by heavy vehicles.
Each token gives a +1 bonus to defense.
You must announce its use BEFORE the attacker’s die roll.
You can use as many as you want in a single attack.
Discard each token after use, regardless of success!
Ammo
This option gives you 3 Ammo tokens.
Each token gives a +1 bonus on shots against infantry.
You cannot use Ammo with explosive weapons.
You must announce its use BEFORE your die roll.
You can use as many as you want in a single attack.
Ammo Belt
This option gives you 3 Ammo Belt tokens.
Only units with the Burst special ability can benefit 
from this equipment.
Each token gives a +2 bonus on shots against infantry, 
or +1 against light vehicles.
You can use as many tokens as you want in a single attack, 
but you must announce their use BEFORE rolling the die.
APC Shells
This option gives you 3 APC shell tokens.
Armor-piercing shells can be used only by heavy vehicles.
Each token gives a +1 bonus against vehicles.
You can use only one APC shell per attack, and you 
must announce its use BEFORE rolling the die.
Culling Hedgerow Cutter
This option gives you 2 Passage tokens.
During movement of a heavy vehicle, you can 
traverse a hedgerow. Place a Passage token on 
the space traversed by the vehicle.
Once you no longer have any Passage tokens, the 
Culling Hedgerow Cutter is destroyed.
Demolition Charge
This option gives you 3 demolition charge tokens.
This equipment allows damage to or destruction 
of structures (see Destruction, p.17).
You must be adjacent to your target at the end of your 
movement to use it.
This movement can be done during the Activation or 
Supply Phases.
The explosion occures at the beginning of the 
Supply Phase and has no area effect.
 
 
 
 
 
RECRUITMENT OPTIONS
Fuel
This option gives you 3 Fuel tokens.
Each token spent increases the speed of a light or 
heavy vehicle by 1 space for this turn.
You cannot use more than one at a time.
Gear
This option gives you 3 or 5 tokens of your choice. You 
must select them from among those provided with the 
Equipment option (colored stripes must correspond to those 
surrounding the Gear recruitment option).
Goliath
This option gives you 1 Goliath. Goliaths are units.
Deploy your Goliath at the same time as your army.
All characteristics of the Goliath are printed on the 
counter.
The Goliath can be targeted.
During its movement, it can enter a space occupied by 
any enemy unit (infantry or vehicle).
You can detonate it at any moment during its movement.
Any unit in the same space as the Goliath when it explodes can be 
damaged.
If the target is a heavy vehicle, use its lateral defense value.
If the Goliath explodes in a structure, the structure can take damage 
(see Destruction special ability, p.17).
If the Goliath explodes, it is destroyed. Remove it from the board.
Grenade 
This option gives you 3 Grenade tokens.
The combat bonuses for grenades are printed on their 
respective tokens.
You can use a grenade at a maximum distance of 2 
intersections.
You can launch them over terrain elements, as the 
distance allows.
Place the corresponding blast pattern on the targeted 
intersection. There is never dispersion.
All units and structures present in the blast pattern, 
even partially, are affected by the shot.
Resolve each individually.
You can launch a grenade into a building if you’re on the space adjacent 
to an opening (see Buildings, p.12).
HE Shells
This option gives you 3 HE shell tokens. 
HE shells can only be used by a heavy vehicle’s primary 
weapon.
Instead of your normal shot, you can place a red blast 
pattern on an intersection.
You must have a Clear LoS.
=6
=3
=4

Horn of Plenty
Deploy the Horn of Plenty as a unit with 
the Scout 3 spaces special ability (see 
p.18).
It transforms blue blast patterns (see 
Indirect Fire special ability, p.17) into 
green blast patterns for all mortars 
that are up to 2 spaces from the Horn 
of Plenty.
Panzerfaust
This option gives you 3 Panzerfaust tokens.
The maximum range of a Panzerfaust is 
4 spaces.
There must be a line of sight between 
the shooter and the target.
Position
This option gives you 1 Position.
One unit that has not been activated may, 
instead of moving during the Supply 
Phase, place an advanced position on its 
space.
An advanced position cannot be placed 
in a building, a ruin, a bunker, a water 
space, or any space inaccessible to an 
infantry unit.
Rifle Grenade 
This option gives you 3 rifle grenade tokens.
The combat bonuses for rifle grenades are printed on their 
respective tokens.
A rifle grenade permits you to use a grenade at a maximum 
distance of 7 intersections.
The rifle grenade has the Indirect Fire special 
ability (see Indirect Fire, p.17).
All units present (even partially) on one of 
the 4 spaces under the blast template are 
affected by the attack.
Resolve each individually.
You can launch a grenade into a building if you’re on the space adjacent 
to an opening (see Buildings, p.12).
Sticky Bomb/Magnetic Mine
This option gives you 3 Magnetic Bomb 
tokens or 3 Sticky Bomb tokens.
If one of your infantry units is adjacent 
to an enemy vehicle at the end of the 
infantry’s movement, the unit can 
place a bomb/mine on the vehicle. 
This movement can be done during 
the Activation or Supply Phases.
If the vehicle moves, it takes the 
token with it.
The bomb/mine explodes at the end of the Supply Phase.
This explosion has no area effect.
For a heavy vehicle, use the side defense value.
You can place several tokens simultaneously. Resolve each individually. 
The Character Traits
Ace Driver
This character trait permits you to reduce the penalty related 
to the Fire on the Move special ability by 1 point.
Only vehicles can benefit from this option.
Bloodthirsty
A bloodthirsty unit inflicts 2 hits instead of one 
when it attacks during an assault.
Courageous
Courageous units can remove 2 Suppressed 
markers instead of one during the Supply Phase.
Ferocious
During an assault, ferocious units drive the defenders 
back, regardless of who wins combat. Obviously, the 
attacking unit must not have been destroyed during 
the attack.
This Character trait cannot be used when 
assaulting vehicles.
Hardboiled
This character trait gives you 3 Hardboiled tokens. Discard a 
Hardboiled token to remove a Suppressed marker from one of 
your units.
You can play several Hardboiled tokens at the same time.
Hardened
This character trait gives you an additional 
Order token. Each turn, you must assign it to 
one of the recruitment tile units.
You cannot possess more than 10 
orders.
Heroic
This character trait gives you 3 Heroic tokens.
Each token permits you to reactivate a unit you 
just activated.
For the second action, the unit does not need an 
additional Order. You cannot activate the unit a third 
time. Special Orders cannot be played between 
these two activations.
Intrepid
Intrepid units always have initiative.
If two intrepid units have the same Order number, the 
player with initiative acts first.
Nazi Basterds
This character trait grants you an additional 
30 points to build your army.
To compensate, your opponent has a bonus of +1 against 
your units during assaults.
Sharpshooters
Units with this trait get the −2 penalty for long-range shots 
beyond 9 squares instead of 7.
Sharpshooter units that have the Limited Range special 
ability (see p.17) increase this range by 2 spaces.
Tankbuster
This character trait gives infantry a +2 bonus on assault 
against heavy vehicles (even if the unit has X against 
gray defense).
Tricky
This character trait gives you 2 Ruse tokens.
These tokens have a concealed face on one side, and an 
empty face on the other. They are used to deceive the 
enemy.
As long as they have not been identified (see Ambush 
special ability, p.16), you can play them like any other unit 
in your army. You can even assign Order markers to them. 
Other than moving, they do nothing.

Triggerhappy
This character trait gives you 3 Suppressed tokens.
As soon as you fire, you can put one of these 
Suppressed markers on the target unit. Obviously, 
the attacking unit must be able to fire on 
the target. 
Veteran
This character trait gives you 3 Veteran tokens.
Each token permits you to reroll any dice (one or more) whose 
results you are not happy with. You must keep the new result.
You can use a Veteran token on a roll you just rerolled.
Airstrike
You can add as many Aviation cards to your 
deck as the number indicated on the option. 
Artillery
You can add as many Artillery cards to your deck as the 
number indicated on the option. 
Battle Plan
This option allows you to obtain a Special Order token (see 
Orders Phase/Special Orders) for the entire game.
You cannot have more than 2 Special order tokens.
Bluff
This order grants you 1 extra Bluff token.
Concealed
This order grants you two Concealed tokens.
These tokens function like the Ambush 
special ability (p.16).
During the Supply Phase, you can assign 
a Concealed token to any infantry unit 
that meets the activation conditions for 
ambush (see Ambush special ability). 
Replace the unit with the Concealed 
token, and place the unit next to the recruitment 
tile. Place marker A or B on it, corresponding to the 
Concealed token. 
Once the unit is discovered, you can take the marker and 
use it again in the next Supply Phase.
Directive
This order grants you 1 or 3 Directive tokens of your 
choice from the 4 available.
At the end of the Orders Phase, place the selected 
token on one of your officers (who has the Special Order 
ability).
All units up to 3 spaces from this officer receive the 
bonus.
You can only place 1 directive per turn.
Fire at Will! 
gives a +1 bonus to firing against infantry units.
Charge! 
gives a +1 bonus to melee attack.
Double Time! 
gives a +2 bonus to movement.
Hold Your Ground! 
gives a +1 bonus to defense for infantry units. 
Discard the directive at the end of the Supply Phase.
Guardian
The defense bonus granted by terrain element
is increased by 1 point. 
Improvisation
You can draw 1 card more than the maximum number 
allowed, but you must then discard 1.
Infiltration 
This order gives the Scout 6 spaces special ability (p.18) to 
all units of the tile in addition to the benefits of the Concealed 
directive.
The american option can only be assigned to the Miller’s 
Rangers Recruitment tile (Kickstarter exclusive).

Initiative
You can use this order to maintain initiative. When it’s time 
to turn over the initiative marker, during the Supply Phase, 
announce this order instead, and turn the order to its 
“used” side to keep initiative. On the following turn, your 
opponent takes initiative as usual.
MG Nest
At the end of the Supply Phase, you can put the MG 
nest anywhere on the board except for the enemy’s 
deployment zone.
Planning
This order grants you 1 additional Order 
token.
You cannot have more than 10 Order 
tokens. 
Smoke
This order gives you 3 smoke bomb patterns.
To use a smoke bomb, place an Order on it. You can use 
several smoke bombs by placing an order on each one.
When its activation turn comes, you can put the smoke 
bomb pattern on any intersection on the terrain.
Roll a die to determine dispersal (see Indirect Fire, p.17).
The dispersal of smoke is only 1 space.
Once dispersal is determined, place the pattern on its −4 side.
At the end of the Supply Phase, remove any smoke bomb 
patterns that were already on their −2 side. Then flip any 
others to the −2 side.
All shots crossing, entering, or leaving a smoke bomb are 
affected by the penalty mentioned above.
Face -4
Face -2
The Immutable Rule of Special Abilities:
You can’t turn over a unit more than once per movement 
through use of special abilities (or of action cards like speed 
setup).
AAA (Anti-Aircraft Artillery)
When an Aviation card is played, add 1 to the AAA roll for each 
unit of the opposing camp with this special ability.
Ambush
To activate this special ability, you must turn over your unit 
during a movement, at the beginning or end of the movement. 
This movement can be null (zero spaces).
A unit with this ability can be deployed with whichever side up 
that you like.
Once concealed, your unit cannot be targeted by shots, and ignores 
blast pattern.
To spot an ambushed unit, you need a Clear LoS.
If the unit is inside a terrain element or a terrain overlay, you also have 
to be at 2 spaces or fewer from it.
Then turn over the counter. This counts as 0 movement that can not 
be modified by any bonus. Conditions to flip over an ambushed unit 
counter are checked each space covered by this ambushed unit or by 
an enemy infantry or light vehicle unit. 
A unit can be turned over or spotted only once per movement.
Heavy vehicles cannot identify concealed units.
Two concealed units can identify each another simultaneously.
Concealed units don’t block LoS.
Concealed units can be assaulted.
Concealed units spotted while moving keep the movement 
value of the concealed side.
Only the owner of an ambushed unit can consult it.
A concealed unit that fires loses the benefits of this special 
ability, and you must turn the counter over.
Amphibious
This unit can cross areas that have this icon: 
.
Artillery Spotter
If your artillery spotter has a Clear LoS on the indirect fire blast 
pattern, you can reduce the dispersal distance by 1 intersection.
This unit specializes in hand-to-hand combat.
It can initiate melee combat and roll 2 dice 
when attacking or defending.
If a value is printed in the symbol, add it to the result of your roll. 
Autonomous
This unit does not require an Order marker to 
act. You can choose to activate it at any time 
during the Activation Phase. However, it may 
not interrupt a current activation.
SPECIAL ABILITIES

You cannot fire into a building.
You cannot fire from inside a building.
Units and structures present in the blast pattern, even partially, are 
affected by the shot.
Resolve each shot individually.
- Units within a building are not affected by an explosion on the outside.
- Concealed units are never affected by blast patterns.
- Blast patterns are not subject to the penalty for long-range fire.
- If a heavy vehicle is hit by a blast pattern, use its side defense value.
Limited Range
This unit cannot shoot a target 
located beyond the number of spaces/
intersections indicated.
If the symbol is 
, this special ability affects its normal 
shots.
If the symbol is 
, this special ability affects shots that use 
intersections. In addition, the shot may be indirect.
Machine Gunner
This unit that can divide its attack bonus among multiple targets, 
as long as it allocates at least a +1 bonus to each target (it 
therefore must perform a roll for each target).
The player must announce this before taking his first shot, and 
can only apply it to units within 2 spaces of each other and of the 
same type (either infantry, light vehicle, or heavy vehicle).
The firing unit must have a Clear or Obscured LoS to each target.
To activate this special ability, you must turn over 
your unit while moving, at the beginning or end of the 
movement. This movement can be 0 spaces.
Only during the Activation Phase, a unit that has not 
already been activated (by an Order token or by an Activated marker) 
and has Opportunity Fire activated can fire at any time during the 
movement of an enemy unit that crosses its Clear or Obstructed 
LoS. (See Firing rules, p.9.)
If the unit fires, it loses any Order token it had and receives an Activated 
marker. Do not flip the counter.
The targeted unit does not stop its movement, even if it is hit or 
Suppressed.
A unit with this ability can be deployed whichever side up you like.
Order(s)
This special ability provides one or more additional 
Order tokens.
The quantity depends on the number of stars on the 
symbol. If the unit is hit or eliminated, adjust your number of Order 
tokens at the end of the next Supply Phase.
Barrage Order
To order a barrage, you must assign an Order marker to a unit 
that has this special ability.
Moreover, the unit must take no action (neither movement nor firing). 
All heavy weapons units (red border) with the same name (e.g., 
.30 cal, mortar), not yet activated, and located within 3 spaces of that 
unit can all fire at the same time when that Order’s turn comes up.
Resolve each shot separately.
Place an Activated marker on the units that have fired. 
Remove any Order markers they might have had.
The unit with the special ability keeps its Order token, and thus cannot 
move during the Supply Phase.
Destruction
Units with this special ability can 
destroy structures.
Every time they fire at a structure directly or at a unit within the structure, 
they roll a number of dice equal to the value indicated in the symbol.
For each result equal to or greater than 4, place a Destruction 
marker on the structure. If the number of markers reaches the 
value of the structure, it is destroyed.
Remove the wreckage from the game or flip over the terrain 
overlay.
Dual Weapon
When shooting, roll two dice and keep the higher result.
Firing on the Move
This unit can fire while moving.
Firing on the Move is made before the exiting 
of the unit on a space.
The penalty specified in the symbol is subtracted from the 
unit combat bonus, not from the final result.
Frightening Shot
After missing a shot with no result (no hits, 
suppression, or localized damage), you can place a 
Suppressed marker on your target.
Hawkeye
This unit’s shots are not subject to long-range fire penalty.
Howitzer
Instead of taking a normal shot, the unit can use 
the Howitzer special ability. 
These units must target an intersection. They 
have no range limit and no range penalty.
You must use the blast pattern whose color corresponds to the symbol.
You must have a Clear LoS to fire.
You cannot fire into a building.
Units and structures present in the blast pattern, even partially, are 
affected by the shot.
Resolve each shot individually.
- Units within a building are not affected by an explosion on the outside.
- Concealed units are never affected by blast patterns.
- Blast patterns are not subject to the penalty for long-range fire.
- If a heavy vehicle is hit by a blast pattern, use its side defense value.
Indirect Fire
Instead of taking a normal shot, the unit can 
use the Indirect Fire special ability. 
All weapons with this special ability can make 
Howitzer or Indirect Fire special abilities. 
These weapons must target an intersection. They have no range limit 
and no range penalty.
You must use the blast pattern whose color corresponds to the icon 
present on the firing unit.
Indirect Fire is made ​when the explosive weapon does not have a Clear 
LoS on the target intersection.
Due to not having a Clear LoS, Indirect Fire may scatter from the desired 
intersection!
Refer to dispersal diagrams indicated on the blast pattern, roll a die. 
On a roll of 1 to 4, the shot scatters a number of intersections determined 
by the number printed in the symbol, in the direction the number 
indicates on the template. On a roll of 5 or 6, the shot is successful and 
does not scatter from the target intersection.
Dispersal rolls are not affected by Suppressed markers.
If you have a Clear LoS, do not roll the die to determine dispersal. 
Instead, place the blast pattern directly on the targeted intersection.
+2

Perforating 
Add 1 to the die roll when you determine the type of damage 
inflicted on a heavy vehicle. 
Personal Order
The unit provides one additional Order token.
However, you must assign an order to each unit that has this 
special ability each turn.
Positive Waves
When your unit is affected, your opponent must roll 2 dice for 
the location of the damage and you choose the result.
Scout
A unit that has this special ability can deploy outside 
the deployment zone a maximum number of spaces 
equal to the number printed on the icon.
It must not be in a space adjacent to an objective (main, 
secondary, or bonus) or in the area of the objective itself 
(e.g., if it’s a building).
A unit with this ability can be deployed on whichever side up you like.
A vehicle with the Transport special ability and wanting to use its Scout 
special ability can only be loaded with troops that also have the Scout 
special ability.
Sniper
Instead of taking a normal shot, this unit can use the Sniper 
special ability.
The player rolls a die on the table below.
The roll is affected by Suppression and Obstacles.
The Sniper special ability can only target infantry units.
1: No effect.
2–3: Place a Suppressed marker on the target unit.
4–5: Inflict a hit on the target unit.
6+: Inflict a hit on the target unit, and place a Suppressed 
marker on it if it has not been eliminated.
Substitute
If a heavy weapons unit (red border) suffers one or more hits, 
you can assign the hits to a unit that has the Substitute special 
ability, if it is 2 spaces or closer to the affected unit.
This special ability doesn’t work if the heavy weapon is killed during 
an assault.
 
Suppressive Fire
Instead of taking a normal shot, this unit can perform 
suppressive fire. (Apply normal Firing rules, p.9.)
Double all bonuses (All of them!) and then roll the die. 
Calculate the defender’s defense value as usual.
If the result is equal to or greater than the defense value, the target 
takes no damage, but instead receives a Suppressed marker.
If the result is twice the defense value (or greater), the target receives 
two Suppressed markers.
There is no maximum number of Suppressed markers a unit can receive.
Supressed Marker Penalties
Each marker imposes a −2 penalty ANY TIME the unit rolls a dice.
This penalty is not subtracted from the unit combat bonus but 
from the final result!
Each marker also imposes a −2 penalty to the movement value.
If this value drops to zero, the unit is immobilized.
A unit that is suppressed while moving (with an Opportunity 
Fire for example) can finish its movement before applying the 
Suppression movemement penalty.
Suppressed units don’t exert ZoC. Enemy units can 
move freely through spaces adjacent to suppressed 
units.
Terrifying
When this unit wins an assault, in addition to damage, it places 
two Suppressed markers on the victim, assuming it was not 
eliminated during the assault.
If it loses the fight, it still puts one Suppressed marker on his opponent.
Transport
The vehicle can carry infantry units. Use the 
following rule to determine how many units may be 
transported.
Units on a side with the symbol 
, Heroes, and Officers count as 1.
All other units count as 2.
Vehicles cannot carry more than one Gun (an infantry 
counter large enough to occupy a little more than one 
space).
During the Activation or Supply Phases, an infantry unit may 
enter or exit a vehicle at the beginning or the end of the infantry’s 
movement, from or to any adjacent space.
The vehicle is considered a free space when it comes to 
conducting an assault. It is possible to lead an assault from a 
vehicle with the Transport special ability, as well as retreat in a 
vehicle if the Assault is lost, whether the unit is the attacker or 
defender.
A unit on a vehicle can receive an Order marker. They can therefore exit 
the vehicle or shoot from the vehicle.
Heavy weapon units (red border) cannot shoot from a vehicle, 
unless they have the Firing on the Move special ability.
The Firing on the Move penalty is not applied.
A unit inside a vehicle cannot be targeted and is not hit by 
blast patterns. 
If the vehicle is destroyed, the troops inside take no damage, but must 
be redeployed on empty spaces adjacent to the wreck.
Units cannot be redeployed on spaces occupied by other units. 
They can not be redeployed in a space within an enemy ZoC.
The units’ owner chooses where to redeploy them.
Units with the Special ability containing this symbol: must 
be redeployed on their non-activated Special Ability side 
(unslashed). This counts as 0 movement that can not be 
modified by any bonus.
Place a Suppressed marker on each unit.
Any unit for which there is no available space died in the explosion.
Tripod
To activate this special ability, you must turn over 
your unit at the beginning or end of the movement.
This movement can be 0 spaces.
Once turned over, the characteristics of your unit change.
A unit with this ability can be deployed whichever side up you wish.
=3
Defending units are not easy to dislodge, 
but remember that if they receive a Suppressed marker 
from being fired upon before the assault, 
they suffer a −2 penalty!
You can also use the Machine Gun special ability combined with 
Suppressive Fire to suppress several targets.
Double the combat bonus before splitting it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

MULTIPLAYERS RULES 3–4 PLAYERS
For multiplayer games with 3 players, you need an army box 
(sold separately). Two army boxes are required for 4 players.
Alliance
When playing multiplayer games, two or more players on the same side 
form an Alliance. Alliances can be formed between different armies (for 
example, British and American troops.) Alliances share the regular pool 
of Order Tokens and Action Cards.
Victory Conditions
Use the normal victory conditions for a scenario. The defeat of one 
player from an Alliance does not end the game, or mean game loss for 
the Alliance in question.
Army Creation
After defining the number of army points per Alliance, each player must 
purchase at least one recruitment tile providing one or more units. The 
number of army points available per player is the number of Army point 
of the Alliance divided by the number of players in that Alliance. For 
example, in a 2-vs-1 game with 500 army points per side, the Alliance 
players purchase armies worth 250 points each while the single player 
builds an army with 500 points.
Recruitment of a High Command Tile
An Alliance has the option of buying a single High Command recruitment 
tile (recruitment tiles having only location for orders and no unit).
All players in an Alliance share the total costs of the high command 
tile and selected options. The shared cost does not need to be equally 
distributed.
Options on a purchased high command tile can be used by all players 
of that Alliance.
For recruitment options involving markers or tokens (e.g., Battle Plan 
or Hidden), use markers corresponding to the armies of the Alliance 
above. This does not increase the number of markers. The token or 
marker is not permanently assigned to the option and may be used by 
either Alliance player if necessary, or following an external effect such 
as an Action card.
For example, an Alliance of British and Americans acquired the Planning 
recruitment option. One Order token is awarded to the Alliance, not 
to each player. Each player places one of their Order tokens on the 
recruitment option. Each round, the Order token is assigned to one 
player in the Alliance. The chosen player takes his Order token from the 
recruitment option and returns it to the recruitment option at the end 
of the Supply Phase.
Recruitment options related to High Command recruitment tiles must 
follow the colored bands present on the sides of the opening of the 
option. For example, there can’t be any US recruitment option on a 
Commonwealth high command recruitment tile, even if a player of the 
alliance has US units.
Each Alliance prepares a single deck of 50 cards instead of 40.
Players belonging to an Alliance must choose which nation’s deck to 
use. One player of the Alliance must belong to this army.
If a High Command is recruited, then the deck must be from the same 
army as the High Command.
Initiative and Order of Play
Place the Initiative marker on the face corresponding to the Alliance 
which goes first.
During game setup and at the beginning of each Orders Phase, players 
of each Alliance must decide the order in which they will play within 
the turn.
Deployment
Each player deploys his army based on initiative and order of play 
within the Alliance.
The first player of the Alliance with initiative must deploy troops. Next, 
the first player from the opposite Alliance deploys. Then the second 
player of the Alliance with initiative deploys, and so on.
Players activate their units in the order defined and alternate with 
the opponent(s).
A unit can’t assault or fire on an allied unit’s spaces.
Units of a player can pass through squares occupied by infantry units 
belonging to an allied player, respecting the rules of Movement.
Players can move all their non-activated units within the defined order.
The number of Action Cards drawn during the Supply Phase is based on 
the number of players in the Alliance:
- 1 player: 6 cards
- 2 players: 3 cards each
- 3 players: 2 cards each
Allied players can show their Action cards to each other.
They can exchange Action cards only during the Supply Phase. Action 
cards are drawn and assigned for the next round.
Allied players can play cards against an opponent (Mine Action card, 
etc.). 
They cannot play cards granting a bonus in any form to units belonging 
to their teammate(s) (Battle Rage, Burst into Action, Panzerfaust, etc.).
Precision Special Ability
A special ability that affects other units (e.g., Barrage Order) can also be 
applied to Allied units if the Allied player who owns those units agrees.
Similarly, any Special Ability that requires the presence or LoS of other 
units (Substitute, Artillery Spotter, etc.) may be used on an allied unit, 
with the agreement of the unit’s owner.
2-vs-1 and 3-vs-1 games
The number of Order tokens, Special Order tokens, and Bluff tokens 
is limited respectively to 10, 2, and 2 per Alliance. This means 
that each Alliance has only one Bluff token (without a suitable 
recruitment option). The single player follows the same limits as during 
a normal game.
As appropriate, the single player activates two units alternatively with 
his opponents. For example, if he has initiative, he activates his Order 
1. The first opponent activates his own Order 1. Then the single player 
activates his Order 2, his second opponent activates his Order 1, and 
so on. 
Glossary
Unit: infantry, light vehicle, or heavy vehicle counter
ZoC: Zone of Control
LoS: Line of Sight
Blocked LoS: Line of Sight that crosses a space with this symbol: 
Clear LoS: Line of Sight that crosses no spaces with these 
symbols:
Obscured LoS: Line of Sight that crosses spaces with these 
symbols:

AAA (P.10 and p.16)
add 1 to the AAA roll for 
each unit.
Assault (p.8 and p.16)
Unit can engage in melee 
and roll 2 dice when 
attacking or defending.
Autonomous (p.16)
This unit does not require 
an Order marker to act.
Perforating (p.18)
Add 1 to the die roll when 
you need to determine 
damage location.
Amphibious (p.16)
You can cross areas that 
have the water icon.
Orders Phase
One star = 1 Order token
Movement/Assault
or
Neither firing nor any assault can happen during this phase!
GAME PHASES
Frightening Shot (p.17)
After missing a shot, place 
a Suppressed marker on 
your target.
GAME AID
Destruction (p.17)
Roll a number of dice equal 
to the value.
on 4+ , place a marker.
Machine Gunner (p.17)
Unit can divide its attack 
bonus across multiple 
targets.
Limited Range (p.17)
Shots cannot be made 
beyond the number of 
spaces/interspaces.
Hawkeye (p.17)
This unit’s shots are not 
subject to the penalty for 
long-range fire.
Personal Order (p.18)
The unit provides one 
additional Order token, but 
must be assigned one.
Order(s) (p.17)
This special ability 
provides one or more 
additional Order tokens.
Positive Waves (p.18)
Your opponent rolls 2 dice 
for the damage location. 
You choose which to use.
Howitzer 
(p.17)
Use a blast 
pattern.
Artillery Spotter (p.16)
Reduce dispersal distance 
by 1 interspace.
Ambush (p.16)
Once concealed, your unit 
cannot be targeted.
Indirect 
Fire (p.17)
Use a blast 
pattern.
Firing on the Move (p.17)
The unit can fire while 
moving.
Suppressive Fire (p.18) 
Double your combat bonus 
to suppress your target.
(p.11 and p.17)
Unit can fire at any time during 
the movement of an enemy unit.
Barrage Order (p.17)
You may shoot multiple 
units of the same type with 
the same order.
Terrifying (p.18)
Assault: 2 Suppressed 
tokens when victorious, 1 
when defeated.
Sniper (p.18)
1: No effect
2–3: Suppressed
4–5: One hit.
6: One hit + Suppressed
Scout (p.18)
Unit can deploy outside 
the deployment zone.
Substitute (p.18)
Assign damage on heavy 
weapon to this unit
(max : 2 spaces).
Tripod (p.18)
Flip the counter to deploy/
pack the weapon.
Transport (p.18)
The vehicle has the ability 
to carry infantry units.
Structures (p.11)
To destroy a structure, you must inflict the number of 
demolition points printed within the symbol.
Defenses (p.11)
This element provides a bonus to the defense value of 
each infantry unit on one of its spaces.
Obstacles (p.11)
This element totally blocks LoS or interferes with 
LoS that cross it (Obscured LoS).
Difficult Passage (p.11)
Once a unit enters this element, it must stop its movement 
immediately.
Impassable (p.11)
No unit can enter this element.
Impassable to... and to... (p.11)
This element is impassable to unit types corresponding to the 
icon color.
No Passage (p.11)
It is impossible to pass between two spaces connected by this 
symbol. It also blocks LoS.
Opportunity Fire (p.11)
This element gives the Opportunity Fire special ability.
Water (p.11)
This element is impassable to units with no Amphibious special 
ability. 
Impassable to... (p.11)
This element is impassable to Infantry, Heavy, or 
Light vehicles.
Long Range
Beyond 7 spaces, shots suffer a −2 penalty to their combat value.
Suppressed marker
Each marker imposes a −2 penalty to ALL of a unit’s die 
rolls.
Each marker also imposes a −2 penalty to a unit’s movement 
value.
If this value drops to 0, the unit is immobilized (not if 
suppressed during a movement).
Suppressed units don’t exert a zone of control.
Dual Weapon (p.17)
Fire: Roll two dice and 
keep the higher result.
Move Sequence
Announce movement
Fire on the Move
Move 0 or 1 spaces
Ambush verification
Repeat move sequence.
Shot Resolution
Announce shot type (regular or Suppressive)
Initial attack bonus
Fire on the Move penalty
Equipment bonus
Split attack bonus (if Machine Gunner)
Double attack bonus (if Suppressive Fire)
Roll die (2 dice if Dual Weapon)
Roll result = die roll + modified attack bonus 
– penalties (Suppressed marker, Range, 
Obstacle)
Clear Line of Sight
Line of Sight that crosses no spaces with these symbols:
Obscured Line of Sight
Line of Sight that crosses spaces with these symbols:
Blocked Line of Sight
Line of Sight that crosses a space with this symbol: