Rulebook

The ice is breaking up! Grab all the fish you can before they slip 
away. If you don’t, another penguin will. It’s every penguin family 
for itself.
Your penguins must race across the rapidly dwindling ice floe to 
collect the juiciest fish and block off their rivals. But your penguins 
better stay alert! If a penguin gets stuck on an ice floe, he’s done.
Seemingly simple, your goal will be thwarted by devious penguins 
and an ever-shrinking game board. What strategy will you construct 
to bypass the competition?
Components
4 Ocean Boards
60 Ice floe tiles
16 Penguins (4 per color)
These 60 hexagonal tiles each depict an ice floe with 1–3 fish on the 
front side and empty water on the back side.
30 One-fish tiles
20 Two-fish tiles
10 Three-fish tiles
Face-down tiles
Each player controls 1–4 penguin figures and uses them to collect fish.
Setup
1.	Assemble the 4 ocean boards as illustrated on the picture below. 
The fish icons on the boards must be facing the same direction. 
2.	Shuffle all 60 ice floe tiles face-down. Then, fill the ocean boards 
by randomly placing all the ice floe tiles face up on the ocean 
boards to create the game board. If all players agree, they may 
switch tiles around (if necessary) to evenly distribute the two 
and three-fish floes.
3.	Each player chooses a penguin color and takes the appropriate 
number of penguins of that color, depending on the number of 
players: 
	 • 2 Players: Each player uses 4 Penguins. 
	 • 3 Players: Each player uses 3 Penguins. 
	 • 4 Players: Each player uses 2 Penguins.
Players place their penguins on the game board, starting 
with the youngest player and proceeding clockwise around 
the play area. Each player takes a turn placing one penguin 
on an unoccupied ice floe tile containing only one fish until players 
have placed all their penguins. 
overview
In Hey, that’s my fish!, 2–4 players move their penguins on the ice 
floe tiles, collecting fish. The player who has collected the most 
fish at the end of the game wins.
Ready to play!

Collecting an ice floe tile
Playing the game
The game is played over several turns, beginning with 
the youngest player and proceeding clockwise.
Each player’s turn consists of two steps:
1.	Move one penguin
2.	Collect one ice floe tile
1. Move one penguin
Move any one of your penguins as far as you want in a straight line. 
The penguin may move in any one of the six directions of 
the hexagon, but it may not change direction during the move. 
The penguin can only move onto an unoccupied ice floe tile. 
It cannot move onto or through floes occupied by another 
penguin (even one of its own color) or spaces without ice 
floes (see Penguin Movement below).
2. Collect one ice floe tile
Take the floe tile the penguin started its move from and add it to 
your collection (placing the tile face up in a pile in front of you.
Note: Push on one of the edges of an ice floe tile to take it easily.
End of the game 
The end of the game is triggered when all penguins have been 
removed from the game board. Any uncollected ice floe tiles are 
returned to the box.
The player with the most fish wins the game. If there is a tie, the 
tied player with the most collected ice floes wins. If the game is 
still tied, all tied players share the victory.
Penguin Movement
Penguins must move in a straight line.
After moving, a player collects the ice floe tile.
Penguins can’t change direction during a move.
Penguins block other penguins.
Empty spaces are not crossable. 
Then, it is the next player’s turn in clockwise order.
A player must move one of their penguins each turn. If a player is 
unable to move any of their penguins, they do not take any more 
turns. Their penguins are removed from the game board and the 
ice floe tiles they were occupying are added to their collection.
Play continues in this manner until no penguins have any more 
legal moves and all penguins have been removed from the board. 

All rights reserved. 
© 2023 Plan B Games Inc. 
19 rue de la Coopérative 
Rigaud, QC J0P 1P0 
Canada
info@planbgames.com 
www.planbgames.com
Game Design: Günter Cornett & Alvydas Jakeliunas 
Producer: Sophie Gravel
Editing: Pierre-Olivier Gravel
Illustration: Chris Quilliams
Graphic Design: Émeline D’Aoust, Martin Roy
 & Adrian Harper
Development by:
No part of this product may be reproduced without 
specific permission. 
Retain this information for your record. 
Made in China.
Credits