Rules
montage regles_US.indd 1

Rules
gles US.indd 1
29/03/13 12:06
Contents:
 1 Rule book
 1 Wolf puppet
 7 pieces of cardboard Furniture
 7 wood Kid figures
 49 cardboard Pebble/Kid tokens
“There was once upon a time an old goat who had 
seven little kids, and loved them with all the love of 
a mother for her children. One day she wanted to go 
into the forest and fetch some food. So she called all 
seven to her and said, «Dear children, I have to go 
into the forest, be on your guard against the wolf; if 
he comes in, he will devour you all---skin, hair, and 
all. The wretch often disguises himself, but you will 
know him at once by his rough voice and his black 
feet.» The kids said, «Dear mother, we will take good 
care of ourselves; you may go away without any 
anxiety.» Then the old one bleated, and went on her 
way with an easy mind.
It was not long before someone knocked at the 
house-door…”
Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm – Household Tales, Vol. 1 - 1812
Setup
Scatter the pieces of furniture across the game area. 
Make sure there is sufficient space between each piece.
One player is chosen to play the role of the wolf.
That player takes the Wolf puppet, which he/she will put 
onto one of his/her fingers. The other players take on the 
role of the Kids. These players each take one Kid figure. 
Any unused figures are returned to the box.
Keep the tokens handy to the side of the game area so as 
to be easily reached without disturbing the game play. This 
area is called the reserve.
The game can now begin!
x1
x1
x7
x7
x49
montage regles_US.indd 2

Playing the Game:
 Turn begins, the Kids go hide
The Wolf turns around and closes his/her eyes, slowly 
and clearly counting to 10. 
At the same time the Kids go hide. Each Kid (player) 
hides their figure (standing or lying down) on the play 
area behind or under a piece of furniture. Several Kids 
can use the same hiding place. Players should make 
sure that the Wolf can’t see their figures.
Example: a Kid can hide their figure in the cupboard 
or the stove, behind the door or the clock, under the 
tub or the bed...
 The Wolf starts to look for the Kids
The Wolf ends the count, turns around and lets out a 
mighty growl (GRRRRR!).
The Kids who haven’t had enough time to hide are 
immediately captured.
The Wolf cannot move from his seat, or try to look 
inside or around the back of the furniture.
The Wolf sniffs the game area using the puppet, then 
lifts up 2 pieces of furniture, one at a time. All of the 
Kids that are found are captured by the Wolf. 
For every Kid captured, the Wolf wins 1 Kid token 
which the Wolf will place in front of himself/herself.
Example 1: the Wolf lifts a piece of furniture - 
nothing is there – the Kids are giggling nearby.
Example 2: the Wolf lifts another piece of furniture 
and captures 2 surprised Kids (Kid tokens).
montage regles_US.indd 3

 The Kids escape the Wolf
Every undiscovered Kid then reveals their 
hiding place and wins 1 Pebble token – bleating 
in joy (MAAAAA!).
Also, if a Kid escapes and was hidden in: 
 The tub: the Kid(s) win(s) another Pebble token.
 The clock: the Kid(s) forces the Wolf to discard 
1 of his/her Kid tokens (if the Wolf has any), which 
is returned to the reserve.
The Kid(s) place the Pebble tokens they won in front of them.
Example 1: two Kids come out of the stove and 
win 1 Pebble token each.
Example 2: one Kid comes out from under the tub 
and wins 2 Pebble tokens.
Example 3: one Kid comes out of the clock and wins 
1 Pebble token while the Wolf loses one Kid token.
 
 End of the turn: 
The Kids take their figures back, the furniture is replaced 
in the play area and a new turn can begin.
 End of Game: 
If, after having lifted a piece of furniture, 
the Wolf has 7 or more Kid tokens, the game 
immediately ends and the Wolf wins.
If, at the end of a turn a Kid has 
7 or more Pebble tokens, the game 
comes to an end. The Kid(s) with 
most Pebble tokens wins.
montage regles_US.indd 4