Homesteaders - English - 1
Component list
The Homestead Act of 1862 allowed Americans to claim undeveloped land by living on and 
farming it for five years. Also in the 1860s, the Transcontinental Railroad was built across 
North America, linking rail networks between the East and West coasts. The development of 
the railroads accelerated the spread of homesteaders colonizing the West and led to the rapid 
cultivation of new land. 
In Homesteaders, players are settlers in the Old West, claiming land to develop into a town. The player 
who contributes the most to building that town into a city will have the city named after him and be de-
clared the winner.
1 Auction board
53 Building tiles
36 Debt chits
51 Victory Point chits
14 Steel
27 Rail line chits
25 Workers
12 Gold
63 Silver coins
14 Wood
10 Copper
36 Trade chits
14 Food
10 Livestock
4 Market Reference tiles
30 Auction tiles
4 Player screens
1 Start Player marker
8 Player markers

Homesteaders - English - 2
Set the Auction board, Resources, Workers, Silver, Trade, Debt, 
Rail Line, and Point chits within reach of all players.
Setup
Give each player a player screen, a Homestead tile and match-
ing player markers, 1 Worker, and 6 Silver. Each player places 
1 player marker at the start of the Railroad Development track; 
the other marker is used to bid in the auctions. Put unused player 
material back in the box.
Sort the auction tiles into three piles: ‘Auction 1’, ‘2’ and ‘Auc-
tion 3’.Order the ‘Auction 1’ by round number and place them 
in apile, FACE UP, on the Auction 1 space. Players may look 
through this pile. 
Sort out the ten ‘Auction 2’ tiles: Shuffle the two City tiles 
and place them FACE DOWN on the bottom of this pile. Shuffle 
the four Town auction tiles and place them FACE DOWN above 
the City tiles. Shuffle the four Settlement auction tiles and place 
them FACE DOWN on top of the Town tiles. Place this auction 
tile pile on the Auction 2 space. Players may not look at the face 
down tiles.
For a 4 player game, create a third auction tile pile from the 
‘Auction 3’ tiles in the same manner as for the Auction 2
space. Place this pile on the Auction 3 space. 
For a 2 or 3 player game, remove these tiles from the game.
Sort the buildings and place all of the ‘Settlement’ and ‘Settle-
ment/Town’ buildings near the board in the Building Supply. 
Sort the buildings by colour (green/blue/red). Place the ‘Town’ 
and ‘City’ buildings in piles aside to be used later. Players may 
look through these buildings at any time.
For a 2 player game, include only one of each building in the 
game, except include two of Farm, Market, and Foundry.
Randomly choose a player to be the 
starting player and give them the Start 
Player marker.
Hidden Items:
 (keep behind the screen)
resources, silver, trade chits, 
debt chits and victory point chits
Public items:
workers, buildings, 
rail line chits

Homesteaders - English - 3
Game rounds
Buildings
Homesteaders is an auction and resource management game in which players bid on land and develop buildings. The game will be played in 
10 rounds. Each round features an income phase, where players acquire resources, and an auction phase, in which players bid for available land 
and then spend their resources to develop a building on that land. At the end of the game there is a Final Income and Scoring round.
Players build a city over three stages:
• The Settlement (round 1-4) 
• The Town (round 5-8) 
• The City (round 9-10) 
The stages dictate which buildings are available to be built.
Buildings have the following properties:
Name:
Describes the building. Most buildings 
are unique, but there are several 
copies of some. Players may not build 
multiple buildings with the same 
name.
Type:
Residential (green), Industrial (blue), 
Commercial (red), or Special (yellow). 
You need to win an auction of this type 
in order to construct the building.
stage:
Settlement, Settlement/Town, Town, 
or City. This determines availability 
of the building.
point value:
Victory Points the building is worth at 
the end of the game.
costs:
The resources required to build the 
building.
Ability/Bonus/
Additional Score:
Some buildings provide a one time bo-
nus when built, such as a free Worker, 
a Rail Line, a Trade chit, paying off a 
Debt chit, or advancement on the Rail-
road Development Track. Other build-
ings provide special abilities, such as 
new ways to use a Trade chit. And some 
buildings provide additional score at the 
end of the game based on how many of 
a particular item you have, such as one 
point per Rail Line, or per commercial 
building.
Automatic Income:
Income provided by the building au-
tomatically during the Income phase. 
No worker is required to collect this 
income.
Worker Income:
Income provided by the building as long 
as there is a worker present during the 
Income phase.

Homesteaders - English - 4
round phases
The phases of each round are as follows:
1) Setup
2) Income
a. Allocate Workers
b. Collect Income
c. Pay Workers
3) Auction
a.	Bidding
b. Building
1) setup
At the beginning of each round, players retrieve their bid markers from 
the auction board, and the top tile of each of the face down auction piles 
is revealed for this round. Remove old auction tiles from the game.
If it is Round 5, then the Settlement stage is over and the Town stage 
begins. Remove all unbuilt Settlement buildings from the game and 
add all of the Town buildings to the Building Supply.Settlement/Town 
buildings are available in both the Settlement and Town stages. 
Note that player owned buildings are not removed, only buildings that 
have not yet been built.
If it is Round 9, then the Town stage is over and the City stage begins. Re-
move remaining unbuilt buildings from the game and add all of the City 
buildings to the Building Supply.
2) Income
a. Allocate Workers
Each player simultaneously allocates their Workers among the available 
worker slots on their buildings. If a player does not have enough spaces 
for all of their Workers, then the extras are left idle on their Homestead 
tile. Players may reallocate all of their Workers every turn.
Note that some buildings have double worker slots. These require 2 
Workers in order to produce the listed resources. For example, two 
Workers on a river port produce one gold, but one Worker alone pro-
duces nothing.
If a player wishes to see how another player will allocate workers first, 
players should allocate workers in player order beginning with the Start 
Player.
b. Collect Income
Each player collects all Automatic income from their buildings and Rail 
Lines and any Worker income from occupied worker slots. Rail Lines 
produce an Automatic income of 1 Silver. It is recommended that each 
player place their income in plain sight for all to see before placing it 
behind their screens, so that each player may see what their opponents 
are receiving.
c. Pay Workers
Each player must pay 1 Silver to the bank for each Worker on their tiles. 
A player must pay for all of their Workers, even if some of them are idle.
Players may use the Marketplace, spend Gold, or take Debt if they wish 
in order to pay their workers. (See Trade and the Marketplace, Spending 
Gold, and Debt, below.).
3) auction
a. Bidding
Beginning with the Start Player and continuing clockwise around 
the table, players take turns making bids on the available auctions or 
passing.
Players bid by placing their bid token on any available auction,on the 
space corresponding to their bid. The minimum bid is 3, and all bids 
must be higher than any opponent’s previous bid on that auction. Note 
that the available bid values are: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 16, and 21. A player 
may make any bid regardless of cash on hand. If a player is outbid then 
on their next turn they will either make a new valid bid or pass. If on 
a player’s turn they are currently winning an auction, then they do 
nothing.
Players must either make a valid bid or pass. If a player has been 
overbid, then they may rebid in the same auction or on another one, 
or pass. When each player has either passed, or has the high bid on an 
auction, the Bidding phase ends.
When a player passes in the auction, they advance their marker on 
the Railroad Development Track and immediately take the item 
corresponding to that space or any previous space on the track. 
For example, a player advancing to the third space of the Railroad 
Development Track may take a Trade chit, a Rail Line, or a Worker. 
Once a player passes their turn is skipped for the rest of the auction.
Because there are more players than auction cards, at least one person 
will pass each round. It is possible for more than one player to pass 
during a round if 2 players pass before making any bids. In this case, 
each of those 2 or more players advances on the Railroad Development 
Track. Auction tiles which received no bids are discarded and are not 
awarded to anyone.

Homesteaders - English - 5
2 Player game bidding
Before the start player places their bid token for the round, they 
also place the neutral bid token on any auction item. The level at 
which the neutral bid token is placed is determined below. You 
may want to use a second token to keep track of the neutral bid 
level. You can do this on auction space 3 to make it less confusing. 
Note: The start player is allowed to place the neutral bid token on 
an item and then overbid it, if desired. They usually will want to 
place it on the other
item however.
The neutral bid token level begins the game at ‘5’. (On turn 1, 
the start player will place the neutral token on ‘5’ on one item, 
and then will make their own bid. Usually a player will chose to 
bid on the other item, but they may choose to overbid the neutral 
token if desired.
If both players win an auction item in a round, then the neutral 
bid level increases by 1 for the next round. So for example, if both 
players win an item in round 1, then you increase the neutral bid 
level to 6. Exception: If the neutral bid token is at ‘9’, it cannot be 
further increased.
Whenever a player passes decrease the neutral bid token by one 
level. The minimum the neutral bid level can reach is 3.
If neither player wins auction space #1, then the start player token 
passes to the other player. If one of the players wins auction space 
#1, they receive the start player marker as normal.
If the start player begins the round by passing instead of bidding, 
they still place the neutral bid token on an auction space of their 
choice. (If the bid level was at ‘6’, they would pass, place the neu-
tral bid token on an item of their choice at a bid of 6, and then 
reduce the bid level for the future).
B. Building 
Beginning with the player who won Auction 1, and then followed by the 
winners of Auction 2 and Auction 3, players must pay for the Auction, 
and then they may build a building of the type listed on the auction tile. 
The auction tile is then discarded. Players MAY NOT hold the auction 
tile for future use. The winner of Auction 1 also receives the Start Player 
marker. When paying for an auction bid, just as with paying Workers, a 
player may use the Marketplace, spend Gold or take Debt.
Some auction tiles do not allow building, and instead award Workers 
and/or advancements on the Railroad Development Track. In this case 
the player immediately receives these items and then discards the auc-
tion tile without building a building.
Some auction tiles award bonus opportunities in addition to a building 
such as a Worker, or the ability to exchange resources for Victory Points 
or a Rail Line. These additional items may be taken/paid for AFTER 
building, and only ONCE. Bonuses acquired for building a building 
(such as a Trade chit from a Ranch) may be used in paying for the ad-
ditional items on the auction tile.
To build a building, the player chooses a building from the Building 
Supply whose type matches their auction tile and pays the cost of that 
building in resources. The player may buy the necessary resources at 
the Marketplace.
Example: Players 
, 
, 
 and 
 are bidding on 
Auction items 1, 2 and 3.
2.	
 bids 3 on item 3. (A player is allowed to switch to a dif-
ferent item, if they are overbid.) 
 bids 4 on item 3. 
 is 
still the high bidder on their item, so they do nothing. 
 is 
the high bidder on their item, so they do nothing.
3.		
 bids 5 on item 3. (A player is allowed to overbid on the 
item they are currently bidding on.) 
 chooses to pass. 
 
mmediately advances on the Railroad Development Track 
and takes an appropriate reward (either the reward for the 
new space they advanced to, or a previous space.)
All players are now either the high bidder on an item, or have 
passed, so the Auction ends. 
 wins item 1 for a bid of 7, 
 
wins item 2 for a bid of 3, and 
 wins item 3 for a bid of 5.
1.		
 bids 5 on item 1 
 bids 6 on item 1. (
 does not 
immediately rebid, but must wait for their turn. 
 bids 3 
on item 2. 
 bids 7 on item 1.

Homesteaders - English - 6
FINAL SCORING ROUNd
After the 10th round there is a Final Income and Scoring round in 
which players repeat the Income phase one final time, and then use the 
Marketplace as much as they like in order to pay off Debt and convert 
their Trade chits, Silver, and resources into Victory Points.
Each player calculates their score by adding up the following:
•	 Victory Point chits collected during the game,
•	 Point values of their buildings,
•	 Point values of all bonuses on their buildings.
•	 2 Victory Points for each Gold, Livestock, and Copper resource. 
Wood, Food, and Steel are worth nothing.
Debt chits can be paid off for 5 Silver. Players lose points as a penalty 
for unpaid debt. The number of Victory Points lost increases the more 
debt the player has: -1 point for the first Debt chit, -2 Victory Points for 
the second, -3 Victory Points for the third, etc…
Five unpaid Debt chits would be worth a total of -15 Victory Points.
The player with the most Victory Points will have the city named after 
them, and be declared the winner!
In case of a tie, the winner is the tied player with the most Silver. If this 
is also tied, then all tied players win!
Trade and the Marketplace
Trade chits are acquired from some buildings, mostly commercial 
buildings, and represent the ability to make business transactions. A 
player may use Trade chits and the Marketplace at ANY time. The 
Marketplace can be used to do any of the following:
•	 Recruit a worker: The Cost to recruit a new Worker is 1 Trade chit 
and 1 Food.
•	 Buy Resource: A player may spend a Trade chit to buy a resource 
of their choice at the going rates.
•	 Sell Resource: A player may spend a Trade chit to sell a resource of 
their choice for the going rates. Players receive 1 Point for selling via 
the Marketplace.
Going rates of the goods are as follows:
Some buildings give players additional options for using Trade chits.
Spending Gold
A Gold may be used as if it were 5 Silver for any purpose, but no 
change is given.
Examples:
• Pay 7 workers with 1 Gold and 2 Silver, or with 2 Gold.
• Pay for an auction cost of 9, using a Gold and 4 Silver,or 2 Gold.
• Pay off one debt chip with a Gold. 
Debt
A player may take any amount of Debt at any time. For each Debt chit 
a player takes, they receive 2 Silver.
Debt may be paid off during Scoring for 5 Silver each. Players may 
use the Marketplace or spend Gold at this time. Each unpaid Debt chit 
carries a penalty during Final Scoring.
RAILROAD DEVELOPMENT TRACK
Players advance on the Railroad Development Track during the 
game. Each time a player advances they receive the bonus depicted on 
that space or any previous space on the track.
The Railroad Development Track has 5 spaces with the following 
bonuses:
1.	 Trade chit
2.	 Rail Line
3.	 Worker
4.	 Any Resource (Wood/Food/Steel/Gold/Livestock/Copper)
5.	 3 Victory Points
If a player is already at space 5 on the track, then further advances 
give them another bonus of their choice.
Example: A player advancing to the third space of the Railroad Development 
Track may take a Trade chit, a Rail Line, or a Worker.
Wood
Food
Steel
Gold
Copper
Livestock
1 silver
2 silver
3 silver
4 silver
1 gold resource
1 gold resource

Homesteaders - English - 7
SPECIFIc buildings
Boarding House 
When this building is acquired, the owner 
discards 1 Debt chit. If they have no Debt 
chits, they should take one (gaining 2 Silver) 
so they can discard it.)
Rodeo
This building provides an income of 1 Silver 
per Worker that you own, up to a maximum 
of 5 Silver. For example, if you have 3 Work-
ers, it provides 3 Silver, if you have 7 Workers, 
it provides 5 Silver. The income is based on 
how many Workers you currently have, not 
how many you had when the Rodeo was built.
forge
Each time you build a building after the 
Forge, you gain 1 Victory Point. (You don’t 
score 1 Victory Point for the forge). If you 
build 2 buildings during one turn (using a 
Train Station), you score 1 Victory Point for 
each.
General Store
Each time you sell a resource you receive 1 
additional Silver. For example, if you sell a 
Wood, you gain 2 Silver and 1 Victory Point 
instead of 1 Silver and 1 Victory Point. If you 
sell a Copper, you get 1 Gold, 1 Silver, and 1 
Victory Point, instead of 1 Gold and 1 Victory 
Point. This ability applies each time you make 
a sale, even if you sell multiple resources in 
one turn. This does not give a discount to 
purchased resources.
Lawyer 
You may outbid someone with the same bid 
that they made, instead of a higher one. For 
example, if an opponent had bid on the ‘5’ 
space on a certain auction, you could replace 
their bid token with your own, instead of hav-
ing to make a bid of ‘6’ or higher.
River Port 
You may use Gold as if it were Copper or 
Livestock when paying for buildings, or for 
the abilities on phase 9 and 10 Auction tiles 
that allow you to pay a Livestock or Copper 
for 4 Victory Points. You may not sell Gold 
(using the sale action) as if it were Copper/
Livestock. You may use this ability any num-
ber of times.
Train Station 
When you build the Train Station, you may 
immediately build one additional building 
of any type.
Bank
You may exchange 1 Trade chit for 1 Silver 
at any time. You may not exchange a Silver 
for a Trade chit. The Bank income is “Dis-
card 1 Debt chit”.
Market 
You may exchange a Trade chit and a Wood 
for a Food, or a Trade chit and a Food for a 
Steel. You may use these abilities any num-
ber of times, at any time.

Homesteaders - English - 8
faq
Colophon
Q: I’m broke! What should I do?
A: Take debt, and purchase buildings that generate income.
Q: If a building produces some income, plus more from a 
Worker slot, do I get the normal income if I don’t put a worker 
on the worker slot?
A: Yes. For example, you still get the 2 Silver from your Homestead, 
even if you don’t use either of its Worker lots.
Q: When can I use Trade chits?
A: Any time at all. This includes Final scoring, and while you are try-
ing to pay for an Auction or building, or if you want to hire a Worker 
during Worker Allocation and use him that turn.
Q: How many Trade chits can I use per turn?
A: Any number. You can use the Marketplace as often as you like, 
whenever you like.
 
Q: When can I move my Workers around to new buildings?
A: You can move all your Workers wherever you want to during 
Worker Allocation.
Q: Do I have to pay all my Workers?
A: Yes, all Workers must be paid each turn, even if they are idle, and 
even if you have to take debt to pay them.
Q: If I win an auction, can I save the land for later?
A: No, you must develop a building on it immediately if at all.
Q: I need more Workers, how do I get them?
A: Some Auction tiles provide Workers, advances on the Railroad 
Development Track can give you Workers once you reach space 3, 
and you can recruit Workers at any time using a Trade chit and a 
Food. (Remember, you can use another Trade chit to buy the food if 
you need).
Q: Does the Start Player marker rotate clockwise?
A: No, whoever wins the Auction on space #1 becomes the new Start 
Player. If no player bids on this auction, then the winner of Auction 
#2 gets it (if none there, #3). If no player bids on any auction then the 
Start Player marker does not move (this should not occur).
Q: What happens if I get to the end of the Railroad Develop-
ment Track?
A: Each advance on the Railroad Development Track after the 5th 
is treated the same as the 5th advance. You may choose whichever 
reward you wish.
Q: If I win an auction that advances me on the Railroad Devel-
opment Track, can I use the bonus I get from that to help pay 
for the auction?
A: No, you must pay for the auction before getting what it gives you.
Q: Can I use the Trade chit I get from building a Ranch to help 
pay for the Ranch building, or for the Auction card that gave 
me the land?
A: No, you have to pay for the building before getting any bonuses, or 
using any abilities that it gives you, and you cannot pay for the build-
ing until after you’ve paid for the auction.
Q: My Auction tile allows me to pay a resource to get a bonus 
(Victory Points/Rail Line). Can I use a bonus or ability I get 
from the building I build to help pay for this?
A: YES. You pay the resource for these bonuses on action cards after 
building the building.
PLaytesters
The designer would like to thank the playtesters of Homesteaders, 
without whom development into the game it is today would not have 
been possible. In particular, thanks to Mark Haggerty, Emily Miller, 
Kirk Monsen, Justin Newstrom, Julie Strasser, Jim Campbell, Steve 
Dupree, Natalie Dupree, Jay Lorch, Melissa Odell, Tom Powers, 
Jonathan Tanner, Jenny Wadkins, Dave Wadkins, Peter Drayton, Julie 
Dubois, Dave Howell, Shane McDaniel, Eric Yarnell, and Chad Urso 
McDaniel for playing early and multiple incarnations.
Special thanks to Sean McCarthy and Ben Penner for their input and 
enthusiasm toward the Homesteaders, and contributing significantly 
to the playtesting process.
CREDITS
Game Design: Alex Rockwell
Game Development: Seth Jaffee
Graphic Design and Illustrations: 
Hans Janssen en Ariel Seoane
Graphic Design & Layout rules booklet: Rafaël Theunis
Published by Quined Games B.V., 
www.quined.com, info@quined.nl 
Facebook: Quined Games, Twitter: Quinedman