IF WISHES WERE FISHES!
Peter Sarrett and Michael Adams
MContentsM
• 74 cards
70 fish cards (10 each of 7 kinds), 4 market full cards
MPreparationM
• Each player takes all the fish of one color and six worms; place the remainer back in the box. Each player 
places one of his fish on the zero space of the scoring track [1].
• Place the five buyers randomly among the markets, with no
more than one buyer at any market[2].
• Shuffle the fish cards and deal four cards face up in a
single row (the “ocean”). Place the remainder of the deck
face down next to the last card dealt [3].
• Stack the market full cards in limit (number on the
left) order: the 4 on top and the 7 on the bottom [4].
The players choose a starting player.
MPlaying the gameM
Play proceeds in clockwise order. On his turn, a player must perform one of the following three options:
• Take a fish card from the ocean and put it in one of his boats.
• Take a fish card from the ocean, use the wish, and throw the fish card back onto the discard pile.
• Sell a single fish from one of his boats.
• Taking a Fish card from the Ocean
The card farthest from the deck is in the shallowest water; the
card closest to the deck is in the deepest. Whenever a player
takes a fish from the ocean, he must first put a worm on any fish
in shallower waters than the fish he’s taking. To take the fish in
the third place, for example, a player would have to put a worm
onto each of the other two shallower face-up cards. 
A player cannot take a face-down card from the deck.
The new card is always added in the deepest water. The
remaining cards are pushed into the shallowest water possible
and then the new card is added in the space next to the deck.
When a player takes a fish, he also takes all worms that have
been dropped on that fish. He keeps these worms even if he
throws the fish back. 
taking a fish
add a new fish
[1]
[2]
• 30 worms
• game board
• 75 wooden fish (15 each in five player colors)
[3]
[4]
• 5 buyers (one “3”,two “2”s and two “1”s)
FishesRules.qxd:FishesRulesLayout1.qxd 3/26/07 12:02 PM Page 1

• Putting a fish card in a boat
Each player begins the game with two imaginary boats, which are in his
play area along with his supply of worms. When a player keeps a fish, he
adds the card to an empty boat. No boat can ever hold more than one
card. If all of a player’s boats are full he may not put another fish in a
boat.
• Throwing a fish card back
Instead of keeping a fish, a player can throw it back into the ocean (discard pile). 
As a reward for doing so, the fish grants the player the wish shown at the top of
the card. The effect of this wish is carried out immediately. (See »Wishes«.)
• Selling a single fish
If a player does not want to take any fish from the ocean, he may instead sell a single fish from one of his boats. This is
the player’s entire turn. If the card being sold is a double fish, it is sold as just one fish. Double fish cards only become
double fish when sold via a wish.
Selling Fish
Players earn money by selling fish to markets and having a
majority of fish in a market when it fills up. Each market only
buys one kind of fish, as shown on that market space. Normally,
a market pays two dollars per fish sold. If there are buyers at the
market, the price paid for each fish is increased by the value of
the buyer. A market with a “1” and a “3” buyer, for example,
would pay six dollars per fish. A player scores his sale by
advancing his marker along the scoring track. He then places the
sold fish card on the discard stack.
For each fish sold, the player adds a fish of his color to the
corresponding market. If a player oversells to a market (see
below), he places any extra fish on the garbage heap (behind the
fence on one side of the board) instead of the market. The
player is paid for all fish sold, including those placed on the garbage heap.
Filling Markets
Each market can only hold a certain number of fish before it becomes full. The
maximum number of fish a market can hold is shown on the topmost market limit
card in the stack. A market becomes full as soon as it contains that number of fish, and
may never contain more fish than its capacity. If a single sale to the market would
bring that market over its capacity, any extra fish are placed on the garbage heap
instead of the market.
When a market fills up, bonuses are awarded. The player with the most fish in the
market earns the higher of the two values shown on the topmost market limit card.
The player with the second-most fish earns the lower of the two values. In the case of
a tie for first, add both values together and award each tied player half (rounded
down), and nobody scores for being second. 
In a tie for second, all tied players score the full second-place points.
Once points have been awarded, place the topmost “market limit” card on top of
the just-filled market. Any fish sold to a full market are sold for full price, but are
placed on the garbage heap.
Ending the game
The game ends when either of two conditions is met:
• All market limit cards are on markets OR
• Ten or more fish are on the garbage heap. If this happens, the
garbage heap is evaluated as described above for a full market,
but the top two players lose the dollars shown on the topmost
“market limit” card instead of gaining them.
each player 
has two
imaginary boats
The red player sells a monk fish
from one of his boats. He places
1 wooden fish on the monk fish
market and marks the 4 dollars
(2 basic and a +2 for grey
buyer) on the scoring track.
The angel fish market is full. The red
player earns 8 dollars for his majority,
the green and the blue players each
score 4 dollars for being second.
If the 7 fish market limit card is on top,
blue loses 10 dollars, red loses 5 dollars.
FishesRules.qxd:FishesRulesLayout1.qxd 3/26/07 12:02 PM Page 2

Regardless of how the game ends, the player with the most worms scores an eight dollar
bonus. The player with the second-most worms scores a four dollar bonus. In the case of
a tie for most worms, all tied players score six dollars and nobody scores for second
place. In the case of a tie for second-most worms, all tied players score four dollars.
The player with the most dollars wins.
MWishesM
A player must perform all aspects of a wish, if possible. If a player cannot perform one part of a wish, he must still
perform the other. Only fish in the current player’s boats may be sold.
MOVE BUYER 1:
Move one 1-point buyer 1–3
markets clockwise, then sell all of
one kind of fish.
MOVE BUYER 2:
Move one 2-point buyer 1–3
markets clockwise, then sell all of
one kind of fish.
MOVE BUYER 3:
Move the 3-point buyer 1–3 markets
clockwise, then sell a single fish card.
If you sell a double fish card, you get
double payment.
SPREAD ALL BUYERS:
From each market with more than
one buyer, remove all buyers except
the one with the highest value at
that market. Place the removed
buyers on any empty markets. When
you are finished, no market may
have more than one buyer.
SELL ALL OF ONE KIND OF FISH:
Sell all cards of a single type.
Seven type of fishes:
SPOILAGE:
Move any one fish from an open
(unscored) market to the garbage
heap, or from the garbage heap back
to its owner’s supply, then sell any
one fish card, if possible.
WORM BONUS:
Score one dollar for every worm
you hold, then give a worm to each
other player. Any worms on that
card count toward the bonus.
BOAT:
Turn this card face-down and keep it
in front of you for the rest of the
game. This card represents an extra
boat, allowing you to hold an extra
fish card. There is no limit to how
many boats a player may have.
SELL ALL OF ONE KIND OF FISH
AS ANOTHER KIND: 
Sell all of one kind of fish as if they
were the other fish shown on the
card. This wish effectively changes
these fish into the depicted fish type
– they are sold to the corresponding
market and the player is paid by the
buyers (if any) at that market.
DOUBLE FISH
If this card is sold via a wish, it counts as 2
fish. If sold instead of drawing a card, it
counts as 1 fish.
worm bonus at the end
example shows the
angel fish wish
example shows the
double angel fish
Angelfish
Kingfish
Starfish
Monkfish
Catfish
Clownfish
Swordfish
FishesRules.qxd:FishesRulesLayout1.qxd 3/26/07 12:03 PM Page 3