Game Design by Steve Jackson • Developed by J. David George
Illustrated by Lar deSouza and Dan Smith
President/Editor-in-Chief: Steve Jackson • Chief Executive Officer: Philip Reed 
Chief Operating Officer: Susan Bueno • Chief Creative Officer: Sam Mitschke 
Executive Editor: Miranda Horner • Copy Editor: Monica Stephens 
Production Manager: Sabrina Gonzalez • Production Artist: Gabby Ruenes
Art Director: Shelli Galey • Project Manager: Darryll Silva 
Prepress Checker: Miranda Horner • Quality Control: Bridget Westerman 
Operations Manager: Randy Scheunemann • Marketing Director: Rhea Friesen 
Director of Sales: Ross Jepson
Acknowledgements
Special thanks go to David Martin (who first suggested doing a game about the Illuminati), Elisabeth Zakes (for playtesting above 
and beyond the call of duty), and Draper and Susan Kauffman (for the play-by-mail version that illuminated the Post Office). Others 
who playtested or commented include Mike Arms, Norman Banduch, Lynn Bell, Brad Bentz, Kenneth R. Brown, Eric Carver, 
Martin de Castongrene, David and Kris Cobb, James Crouchet, Pat Cuney, Kathleen Donelson, David Dunham, Jim Gould, 
Kelly Grimes, Beverly Hale, Scott Haring, Tracy Harms, Tim Kask, Rob Kirk, David Ladyman, Creede and Sharleen Lambard, 
Mara Lee, Robert Lovelace, William Christopher Seth Affleck-Asch-Lowe, Billy Moore, Ray Morgan, Robert Niles, Jim Norman, 
Will Norris, Clay Phennicie, Jay Rudin, Dave Seagraves, Jerry and Vicki Self, Chris Smith, Monica Stephens, Kirk Tate, 
Jim Tomlinson, Allen Varney, and Chris Zakes.
Illuminati, the pyramid logo, and the names of all other products published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated, or used under license. Illuminati is copyright © 1982-2018 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Rules version 4.0 (2018). 
All rights reserved. Fnord. 
illuminati.com
T H E G A M E O F C O N S P I R A C Y
Components
This game includes eight Illuminati cards; 85 cards 
representing other Groups; 17 Special cards; 160 money 
tokens, representing megabucks (MB); two dice; eight 
reference sheets and dossiers, one for each Illuminati 
group; and this rulebook. 
Object of the Game
The object of Illuminati is to take control of the world. 
You start with a single Illuminati card, representing 
your own secret conspiracy. During the game, you take 
over other Groups (represented by cards). These Groups 
are added to your Power Structure and do your bidding 
– unless a foe takes them from you. You may win either 
by controlling enough Groups, or by fulfilling the special 
goal of your own Illuminati. See the Reference Sheets.
Online Resources
Visit illuminati.com for lots more hints for 
taking over the world!
• Articles about strategy, variants, and 
background.
• PDFs of the game components, in case you lose 
something.
• Tournament rules.
• 50 Awful Things About the Illuminati.
• The Fnorder – If you have an iPhone, you can 
get incomprehensible secret messages from the 
Illuminati. And it’s free!
• Frequently Asked Questions About the Real 
Illuminati.
And much more!

Getting Started
Illuminati is best for four to six players. You can play 
with three or even two, but this limits the possibilities 
for diplomacy and negotiation. A seven- or eight-player 
game really takes too long.
Remove the eight Illuminati cards from the deck; they 
have dark backs to make them easy to find. Place them 
face-down on the table. Each player draws an Illuminati 
card, places it face-up, and draws its indicated Income 
from the bank, placing it on the card. Leftover Illuminati 
cards are not used.
Shuffle the remaining cards (including Specials) and 
place them face-down in the center of the table.
Turn four cards face-up in the center of the table. (If 
any Special cards are turned over, bury them in the deck 
and turn over new ones until you have four Groups.) 
These are the original “uncontrolled Groups.”
Each player rolls two dice; the player with the highest 
roll plays first. Follow the Sequence of Play, below. Start 
by collecting more income for your Illuminati Group, 
turning over one card, and then (probably) trying to 
take over an uncontrolled Group with your Illuminati. 
And the race for world control is on!
Sequence of Play
Play proceeds in turns. On his turn, a player does the 
following:
1. Collect Income. For each Group that has an Income, 
draw that income from the bank. Put the money directly 
on that card (the Group treasury). Hint: The game will 
go faster if players count up their Income before their 
turn starts, and have it ready beside each Group card. 
Money should not be placed on the card until that 
player’s turn actually begins.
Players may stack their money so only the top token 
can be seen, or spread them out to flaunt their wealth.
2. Draw a card. If the card is a Group, it is placed face-
up in the center of the table, with the other uncontrolled 
Groups.
If it is a Special card, the player keeps it. They may 
place it face-down or face-up (whichever they choose) 
in front of them. However, they must display the card; 
it can’t be hidden in a pocket. The other players do not 
have the right to know what the card says, but they do 
have the right to know how many Specials each player 
has.
3. Take two “actions,” as explained below.
4. Take any “free actions.” Free actions (also explained 
below) do not count against the two actions a player is 
allowed during each turn. Free actions may be taken 
before, between, or after a player’s regular two actions.
5. Transfer money. Part or all of the contents of two 
treasuries may be moved to the treasuries of adjacent 
Groups. See p. 6.
6. Use Illuminati ability. If you are the Gnomes of 
Zurich, this is the time when you may redistribute 
money between treasuries. If you are the Bermuda 
Triangle, this is the time when you may reorganize your 
Power Structure.
7. Add targets. At the end of each turn, if the 
uncontrolled area has fewer than three Groups, draw 
cards until there are three uncontrolled Groups. If a 
Special is drawn, discard it.
Play continues counter-clockwise until a player (or 
coalition of players) wins by achieving their Goals – see 
the reference card. As play develops, a game might look 
something like this:
The Discordian Society
+4 on any attempt to control Weird groups; immune to 
any attacks from Conservative or Straight groups.
8/8
Pentagon
Psychiatrists
attempt to neutralize 
any group.
The Society of Assassins
+4 on any attempt to neutralize any group.
8/8
Cosplayers
Tabloids
+3 on any 
attempt to control 
Convenience 
Stores.
Robot Sea Monsters
3/1
Madison 
Avenue
+3 on any attempt to 
control any Media 
group.
Flat Earthers
Video Games
4/2
FBI
An extra +5 on any 
attempt to destroy a 
Violent or Criminal 
group. +10 if it’s both.
Triliberal Commission
5/3
See above
Criminal
IRS
Owning player may tax each opponent 2 MB on 
his own income phase. Tax may come from any 
group. If a player has no money, he owes no tax.
B
The Network
Turns over two cards at beginning of turn.
7/7
Moral 
Minority
Republicans
Conservative group.
0/2
Evil Geniuses for a 
Better Tomorrow
+4 on any attempt to 
control, neutralize, or 
destroy the Orbital 
Mind Control Lasers.
Nuclear Power 
Companies
4/3
-1
Post Office
TV Preachers
+3 on any attempt 
to control the 
Moral Minority.
Tobacco 
& Liquor 
Companies
4/3
Big Media
Media group.
Preppers
Gives +2 Resistance 
to all owner’s 
other groups.
E
A
Eco-Guerrillas
Morticians
3*
Gun Lobby
Normal resistance 3; against any 
Liberal group, resistance 10.
C
Figure 1. The game table. A – The deck of face-down 
cards; B – Uncontrolled Groups; C – Pile of destroyed 
Groups; D – Power Structures of the four players in the 
game, each built around an Illuminati card; E – The bank.

The Groups
The basic elements of Illuminati are the Group cards, 
ranging from the Illuminati themselves to the Flat 
Earthers and the Boy Sprouts. (Any resemblance to real 
organizations is purely satirical in nature.) Each Group 
has certain characteristics. See Figure 3 below.
Alignment
There are nine different political alignments. It is 
generally easier for a Group to control or neutralize 
Groups with similar alignments, and to destroy those of 
opposite alignments. Some cards have one alignment, 
some have several, and a few have none. Meanings of 
the alignments, for the purposes of this game, are:
Liberal – Politically “left,” whatever that means; its 
opposite is Conservative.
Conservative – Usually mad at the Liberals; its opposite 
is Liberal.
Peaceful – Philosophically opposed to the use of force; 
its opposite is Violent.
Violent – Armed and/or dangerous; not necessarily 
vicious; its opposite is Peaceful.
Straight – Emphatically middle-of-the-road; its 
opposite is Weird.
Weird – Peculiar, offbeat, notably different from the 
neighbors; its opposite is Straight.
Criminal – Extorting money from citizens through 
force or threat, and/or breaking the law as a profession; 
there is no opposite.
Fanatic – Adhering to a limited system of beliefs 
in defiance of all others; any two Fanatic Groups are 
considered “opposite” to each other.
Media – Politically significant groups in the business 
of selling news, entertainment, opinion, and lies. Media 
groups have no “opposite,” not even each other.
Power
The Power number is a measure of the Group’s ability 
to dominate other Groups. The higher the number, the 
greater the Power. If a Group has two numbers (for 
example: 7/4), the first number is its regular Power 
and the second represents the portion of that Power 
which can be used to assist another Group in an attack 
(transferable power).
A card with no Power cannot attack. A few Groups 
have transferable power only (Power 0/1, for instance). 
This means they cannot attack, but can help another 
Group attack.
Resistance
This is a measure of a Group’s ability to resist 
domination. The lower its Resistance, the easier it is to 
take over . . . and the harder it is to protect when you 
control it.
The Illuminati Groups have no Resistance number, 
because they cannot be attacked directly.
Illuminati card
Democrats
Liberal group.
Congressional 
Wives
Cycle Gangs
+2 on any attempt to 
destroy any group.
Airlines
Bermuda gets 
+2 income if it 
controls this group.
Antiwar 
Activists
Figure 2. A typical Power Structure. The center 
of any Power Structure is the Illuminati card. 
Each player starts with one of the eight Illuminati 
cards; each has its own special abilities. In this 
example, the Illuminati control three Groups 
directly: the Democrats, the Congressional Wives, 
and the CIA. The CIA controls two Groups: the 
Airlines and the Cycle Gangs. The Democrats 
control one Group: the Antiwar Activists.
Criminal
The Mafia
+3 on any attempt 
to control any 
Criminal group. 
+6 for direct control.
Figure 3. The Mafia card. Each card, except for 
Illuminati, has an arrow pointing inward (1). When 
a card becomes part of a Power Structure, this arrow 
is placed next to an outgoing arrow of the Group 
that controls it. A group may also have one to three 
arrows pointing outward (2). These arrows show 
the potential to control other Groups. The Mafia, 
with three arrows pointing outward, is a very useful 
group. If a Group has no arrows pointing outward, it 
will have no Power at all.
The Group’s name (3) is at the top of the card. If 
it has a special ability, it will be shown just below 
(4). Its political alignments are at the lower right (5). 
Its characteristics – Power, Resistance, and Income – 
are shown in red (6).

Giving away a Special card or money – this may be 
done at any time, not just during your turn. Money may 
be transferred only between Illuminati treasuries when 
it goes to another player.
Using a Special card – follow the instructions on the 
card. (Exception: Using the Bribery card is a regular 
action.)
Each action must be completed before beginning 
another. A player may elect to take no actions (not even 
free actions, free money transfers, or Illuminati abilities) 
and collect 5 MB for their Illuminati treasury instead.
Actions cannot be saved for later turns.
Attacks
The most important actions in Illuminati are attacks. 
In an attack, a Group uses its Power, and probably its 
money, in an attempt to either control, neutralize, or 
destroy another Group.
Illuminati cards themselves can attack, but cannot be 
attacked. No Group, except the UFOs, can attack more 
than once per turn.
Attack to Control
This attack may be made against any other Group in 
play except another Illuminati or a Group you already 
control. The attacking Group must have at least one 
outward-pointing arrow free. If a Group has no open 
outward-pointing arrow (either because all are being 
used or some are blocked), it cannot attempt to control 
another Group.
To attack, the player announces which Group is 
attacking, which one is being attacked, and the type of 
attack. (Example: “The International Drug Smugglers, 
assisted by the CIA, will attempt to control the Boy 
Sprouts.”)
The success of the attack is determined by rolling two 
dice. For a successful attack, subtract the defending 
Group’s Resistance from the attacking Group’s Power. 
Example: If a Power of 6 attacks a Resistance of 2, it 
can succeed only on a roll of 4 or less. If a Power of 10 
attacked that same Resistance of 2, it would succeed on 
an 8 or less, giving it a much better chance.
Automatic Failure. A roll of 11 or 12 results in 
automatic failure of the attack, no matter how much 
Power was involved.
Aiding Attacks. All Illuminati, and some other Groups, 
have transferable power. If a Group has two Power 
numbers separated by a slash (like 5/2), the second 
number is its transferable power. If a Group does not 
attack during a turn, it may use its transferable power 
to aid an attack made by any other Group in its Power 
Structure.
Any number of Groups may aid one attack by adding 
transferable power. However, no Group may participate 
in more than one attack per turn. (Exception: The 
Special Ability of the UFOs lets them participate in two 
attacks per turn.) Example: A Group with a power of 6, 
aided by another Group with a transferable power of 4, 
Income
Money is measured in Megabucks (MB). At the 
beginning of your turn, each Group you control collects 
the amount listed on its card. This income is placed 
directly on that card, becoming part of the Group’s 
treasury. If a card has no Income, it gets no money. 
Uncontrolled Groups never get Income.
Two cards have a special Income. The IRS gets its 
Income by taxing each of the other players 2 MB on the 
owning player’s turn. The Post Office costs 1 MB per 
turn to control (paid by their master or their Illuminati).
Special Abilities
All Illuminati, and some other Groups, have “special 
abilities” shown on their cards. 
“Any attempt” abilities give an extra power to the 
holder of the card. Any attempt by that player to do that 
thing, regardless of which Group tries it, will receive the 
indicated bonus. For instance, if you control the Cycle 
Gangs, any attempt you make to destroy another Group 
with any of your Groups will get a +2 bonus. This ability 
comes to you as soon as you take over the Cycle Gangs, 
and is lost as soon as you lose them. A Group may give 
a bonus on “any attempt to control,” even if it has no 
outgoing arrows.
For other special abilities like that of the IRS, follow 
the instructions on the card.
Actions and Free Actions
There are three types of regular actions: an attack, a 
money transfer, and moving a Group. A player gets two 
regular actions per turn.
Some things may be done during the “action” part of 
a turn without counting as actions. These free actions 
include:
Dropping a Group – removing a Group from your 
Power Structure and returning it to the uncontrolled 
area. (Its puppets must also become uncontrolled.)
Aiding an attack – using transferable power to assist 
another Group. This counts as part of the attack being 
aided.

is attacking a Group with a resistance of 3. The attacker 
has a total power of 10 (6 plus 4), and will have to roll a 
7 or less (10 minus 3) to succeed.
When an attack is announced, all transferable power 
to be used in that attack must be announced before any 
money is spent (see below) to support the attack. No 
transferable power may be added in the middle of the 
attack.
Alignment of the Group(s) transferring power does 
not matter.
Power Structure Position. If a Group is already 
controlled by an opponent, it may be harder to control. 
The closer it is to the Illuminati who control it, the more 
of a bonus it gets to Resistance (or to Power if someone 
tries to destroy it). If it is adjacent, it gets a +10! If it is 
one Group away, it gets a +5. If it is two Groups away, 
it gets a +2.
Attacking money may be spent from both the attacking 
Group’s treasury and the Illuminati treasury. Other 
Groups in the Power Structure cannot spend money 
to aid the attack. Example: In the instance above, the 
attacker was afraid he might not roll a 7 or less. So he 
spent 3 MB. Now he needs to roll a 10 or less, which is 
much easier.
Once the roll needed to succeed has reached 10, 
additional spending will not improve the attacker’s 
odds; an 11 or 12 always fails. But additional money 
or power can still be useful. For instance, if an attacker 
uses enough money and power to exceed the target’s 
Resistance by 20, the defender would have to spend 20 
MB to get the attacking roll back down to zero again!
Spending Money to Defend. If the defending Group 
is controlled by another player, the defender may 
counter an attack by spending some of his own money. 
Resistance to that attack will increase by two for each 
MB spent from the defending Group’s treasury, and by 
one for each MB spent from his Illuminati treasury. 
Other Groups cannot participate. All money spent goes 
immediately to the bank. Example: In the instance 
above, the defender has 3 MB on the defending Group. 
He spends it all. It counts double, so instead of a 10, the 
attacker now needs to roll a 4. The attacker may then 
commit more money to offset the defender’s spending.
Continued Spending. The attacker and defender can 
each go back and forth, putting in more money, as long 
as they are able. When no player is willing to spend 
more money to affect the attack, the dice are rolled 
to determine the result. Remember: a roll of 11 or 12 
results in automatic failure, no matter how much power 
or money is used in the attack.
Results of the Attack. If the attack fails, the defending 
Group remains where it was.
If an Attack to Control is successful, the target Group 
is captured and added to the attacking player’s Power 
Structure. It is placed next to its captor, with its inward-
pointing arrow next to an outward-pointing arrow of 
the capturing Group, which becomes its new “master.” 
The controlled Group is now called a “puppet.” Puppets 
may then capture puppets of their own, and so on!
It does not matter if a card is upside-down or sideways, 
as long as the arrows line up properly.
If the captured Group already had puppets of its own, 
they are also captured. When placed in the attacker’s 
Power Structure, they should keep the same position, 
relative to their own master, that they had originally. 
If that is not possible because of overlaps with cards 
the attacker already has, he may rearrange any new 
cards that overlap, as long as they are still controlled 
by the same Group. New Groups that still cannot fit are 
dropped and become uncontrolled.
Half of the money remaining in the captured Groups’ 
treasuries (round down) goes with them to the new 
owner; the rest is returned to the bank.
+2
+2
Figure 4. Resistance bonuses for location in 
power structure. Note that Groups more than 
3 away from the Illuminati get no bonus at all.
Alignments. The alignments of the attacking and 
defending Groups are also important. Identical 
alignments make control easier; opposed alignments 
make it harder. If the Groups have any identical 
alignments, add 4 to the attacker’s effective Power for 
each identical alignment. If they have any opposite 
alignments, subtract 4 for each. Example: A Weird, 
Liberal Group is trying to control a Straight, Conservative 
Group. Two sets of opposite alignments subtract 8 
from the attacking power on this attack. (Exceptions: A 
Fanatic group is opposite to all other Fanatics. Criminal 
has no opposite. Media has no opposite, and Media gets 
a +4 either to control OR to destroy other Media.)
Special Powers. Some Groups’ special powers (shown 
on the card) will help them attack or defend against 
certain opponents.
Spending Money to Attack. The attacker may also 
improve his chances by using some of his money in the 
attack. Each MB spent (returned to the bank) adds one 
point of Power to that attack. However, all transferable 
power to be used must be added and announced before 
any money is spent.

The Group that attacked may immediately transfer 
any or all of its treasury to the Group it just captured. 
This is not a separate action, but is considered part of 
the attack. Such a transfer is often a good idea, either to 
protect the new Group from attack or to let it mount an 
attack of its own.
If a player’s first action is an attack, and it fails, the 
player may attack the same Group again as their second 
action. However, no individual Group (except the UFOs) 
may attack twice in a turn.
A newly controlled Group may attack (or aid an 
attack, or use its special ability) on the same turn in 
which it was acquired.
Attack to Neutralize
This is identical to an “Attack to Control” except:
1. The target must be a Group that is already controlled 
by another player.
2. The attacker gains an additional +6 bonus.
3. The attacker does not need an open control arrow.
4. If the attack succeeds, the target Group and any 
subordinates are placed in the uncontrolled area. All 
their money is returned to the bank.
Attack to Destroy
This is identical to an “Attack to Control” except:
1. Instead of rolling “Power minus Resistance,” the 
attacker rolls “Power minus Power.” In other words, the 
defending Group defends with its Power rather than its 
Resistance. (Its closeness to its Illuminati, as shown on 
p. 5, still counts for defense.)
A Group with no Power cannot be destroyed except 
by the Special card Whispering Campaign. The factors 
that keep powerless Groups from organizing enough 
to control other Groups also make them too diffuse to 
wipe out.
2. Groups with different philosophies destroy each 
other more easily. An Attack to Destroy gets a +4 bonus 
for every opposite alignment, and a -4 for every identical 
alignment. (Exceptions: A Fanatic group is opposite to 
all other Fanatics. Media has no opposite, and Media 
gets a +4 either to control OR to destroy other Media.)
3. A Group does not need an open control arrow in 
order to attempt destruction.
4. If the attack succeeds, the target Group goes to the 
“dead pile.” Its subordinate Groups are not destroyed, 
but become uncontrolled. It can be revived only by the 
Special card Media Blitz.
5. You may try to destroy a Group 
you already control. 
In this case, the 
target’s closeness 
to its Illuminati 
does not protect it. 
But no Group may 
attack itself, or 
aid an attempt 
to destroy itself!
Interference
A player may interfere in an attack, either by helping 
the attacker or by opposing him. To do so, he announces 
who he will help, and then contributes money from his 
Illuminati treasury only. This money goes to the bank. It 
affects the needed die roll by 1 for each MB spent.
An attacker may prevent Interference by declaring 
an attack “Privileged.” To do this, the attacker must 
discard any one Special card and call “Privilege!” when 
first declaring the attack. No one can interfere either for 
or against a Privileged Attack.
The Bavarian Illuminati has the Special Ability to 
declare one attack per turn Privileged, at the cost of 5 
MB payable from their Illuminati treasury. If that player 
wishes to use their Special Ability, they must declare the 
Privilege and pay the 5 MB when they first announce 
the attack.
Privilege may be abolished by use of the Special card 
Deep Agent, or by discarding any two Special cards (see 
p. 7). If the Privilege is abolished, it cannot be reinstated 
on that attack.
Calling Off an Attack
After a player announces an attack, they can change 
their mind and call it off – until they put some money 
down. Once the attacker actually takes money from the 
treasury and puts it in the bank, the attack is committed. 
It must be played out, and it does count as an action.
If the attacker spends no money, the attack is 
committed when another player spends money (either 
for or against the attack) or when the attacker rolls the 
dice.
Transferring Money
A Group may, as an action, transfer any of its money to 
an adjacent Group – either its master or a puppet. Each 
player may make two money transfers as part of their 
turn (Sequence of Play, p. 2). But if necessary, he can 
also make a transfer as a regular action. By successive 
transfers, the same money may be moved two or more 
Groups in one turn.
Moving a Group
A player may, as an action, reorganize their Power 
Structure by moving a Group to a vacant outgoing 
control arrow. The new control arrow may be on the 
Group’s master, or any other Group the player controls. 
If the moving Group has any puppets, then they (and 
their own puppets, and so on) are also moved.
Cards may not overlap. If moving a Group would 
cause some of its puppets (or theirs) to overlap, any of 
them may also be moved to different control arrows, 
as long as they are still controlled by the same master. 
Any puppet that cannot be prevented from overlapping 
is lost. It, and its own puppets, are returned to the 
uncontrolled area.

Gifts and Trades 
Groups, special cards, and money may be transferred 
between players: traded, sold (that is, traded for 
money), or given away. Cash or special cards may be 
transferred any time (except when a privileged attack 
is under way). This does not count as an action. When 
cash is transferred, it must come from an Illuminati 
card and go to another one. Other Groups cannot give 
their money to another player, or receive money from 
another player.
Transferring Groups
Groups may only be transferred if it is the turn of one 
of the players involved. On your turn, you may give a 
Group away (even if you get nothing in return), sell or 
trade it, or trade something (cash, cards, or Groups) 
to get a Group or Groups in return. Each Group 
exchanged counts as an action for the player whose turn 
it is, whichever way the Group moves. So if you trade 
a Group for a Group on your turn, that counts as two 
actions – one to move the first Group, one to move the 
second one!
You may only give a Group away with the permission 
of the player who receives it!
When a Group is transferred to another player, 
its puppets (if any) must go with it, along with all 
treasuries involved. The player receiving the Group 
must immediately fit it, and its puppets, into their power 
structure, exactly as for moved or captured Groups – see 
above. If overlaps cannot be avoided, the player must 
eliminate them by choosing one or more overlapping 
card, new or old, to become uncontrolled.
Throwing the Game
No player may simply “throw” the game to another by 
giving them enough Groups, money, etc., to let them win. 
A trade that lets both players win is perfectly legal. It is 
also legal to trade with another player at the beginning 
of your turn and then surprise everyone, including the 
person you traded with, by revealing a special card or 
pulling off an unexpected attack.
This prohibition requires a certain amount of 
interpretation and honor among players. The intent is 
just to keep any one player from, for whatever reason, 
giving away the game in one fell swoop. A losing player 
cannot necessarily just decide who will win. (On the 
other hand, by attacking someone, they may very well 
decide who loses.)
When Is a Deal Binding?
When two players agree to a deal, it is binding if they 
make the exchange immediately. A deal is not binding if 
it involves an exchange of one thing now for something 
in the future. Example: If you say “I’ll give you 10 MB 
for the Boy Sprouts, right now,” and the other player 
gives you the Boy Sprouts, you have to pay. But if you 
say “If you give me the Boy Sprouts, I’ll pay you 10 MB 
next turn,” and they give you the Group, you don’t have 
to pay next turn, unless you feel like it!
Threats and 
Negotiations
Any agreement between 
players, secret or otherwise, 
is permitted as long as it 
does not actually 
violate the rules of 
the game. For some 
suggestions, see the 
Strategy section on 
the next page.
In particular, it is 
perfectly legal to try 
to change an opponent’s 
mind, by promises or threats, 
about a planned action.
Special Cards
Each of these cards gives an advantage to the player 
who draws it. They may be kept face-down or shown, 
as the player wishes – but he must keep them spread so 
other players can see how many specials he has. Special 
cards may be traded, sold, or given away at any time; 
this is a free action.
Each Special may be used only once. Some may be 
used at any time; others have restrictions, stated on the 
card. Playing a Special is not an action unless the card 
says it is. After a card is used, it is discarded.
Any special card may also be discarded to make an 
attack “privileged” – see p. 6. Any two special cards may 
be discarded together, by the same person, to abolish 
someone else’s privilege. If Secrets Man Was Not Meant 
To Know is used to cancel one of those cards, the other 
one is lost unless the player can replace it! (Remember 
that no one may exchange or give away Specials after 
privilege has been declared. And once an attack loses its 
privilege, it may not get it back.)
If two specials are played and one contradicts the 
other (for example, Assassination and Murphy’s Law), 
the last card played is the one that governs.
Eliminating a Player
A player is eliminated if, at any time after his third 
turn, he controls no Groups except his Illuminati. His 
money goes to the bank. Exception: If the Servants of 
Cthulhu destroy their own last Group, and in doing so, 
achieve their Special Goal (eight Groups destroyed), 
they are not destroyed themselves . . . they win!
Leaving the Game
If a player drops out, his 
Groups go uncontrolled and 
their treasuries go to the 
bank. His Illuminati card is 
taken out of play.

Winning the Game
The game ends when, at the end of a turn (their own 
or someone else’s), a player meets one of their Goals. If 
two or more players both meet their Goals at the same 
time, they share the victory, dividing the world between 
them.
The Basic Goal is the same for all players: to control 
a certain number of Groups. This number depends on 
the number of players at the beginning of the game. If 
a player leaves or is eliminated, the number of Groups 
required to win (see reference card) does not change.
The Special Goal is different for each player, 
representing a specific objective of that particular 
Illuminati. You win if you have met your Special Goal 
at the end of any turn.
All the Goals are listed on the reference cards.
STRATEGY
Conspiring for a shared victory may seem easier than 
grabbing the whole pie. But be careful who you trust.
When someone leaves the room, plot against him. 
There is almost always a way you can make your 
positions a little bit better and his a little bit worse.
Negotiate with everyone. Your foes are less likely to 
attack you if they think you might make a deal that will 
help them win.
To avoid being attacked, you should look strong 
enough to defend yourself, but not so strong that you 
are a threat.
Watch the other players constantly; keep track of how 
close they are to their Goals. If they have Special cards, 
they are more likely to be able to win in a single turn. 
Don’t count on other players to warn you of danger; 
they may have made a private deal!
The Power Structure
There are many ways to assemble a Power Structure 
from the Groups you control. The example given earlier 
in the rules (Figure 2, p. 3) is good because it leaves 
several control arrows open. Figure 5, to the right, 
shows another legal Power Structure, using exactly the 
same Groups. This one, however, is a bad one – or at 
least, less desirable. The Groups get in each other’s way!
Although the Illuminati have one unused control 
arrow, that arrow is blocked – the Antiwar Activists are 
in the way. The Congressional Wives have one open 
control arrow and can take over another Group. The 
Democrats have two open arrows, but only the end 
one can be used – the one on the side is blocked by the 
Congressional Wives!
Also, take care that your Power Structure is balanced. 
If all your Groups branch from a single Illuminati arrow, 
you are in great danger of being eliminated in a single 
attack after the third turn.
Negotiations
Deals can be made either openly or secretly. Some 
examples:
1. The player who controls the IRS agrees to forego 
another’s taxes in exchange for a promise not to attack 
him.
2. One player sees that another will achieve her Goal 
at the end of the turn if he does not interfere. He might 
agree not to interfere in exchange for a gift that will 
satisfy his own Goals, thereby sharing the victory.
3. A player threatens to destroy one of your Groups. 
You think he can. You might try bribing him (in this 
case, bribery is treated as a gift) to get him to attack 
someone else instead.
4. Two players agree to cooperate throughout the 
game so that they both achieve their Goals at the same 
time – of course, one may stab the other in the back!
5. A player offers to pay anybody who will attack his 
particular foe.
6. Two or more players form a coalition to bring down 
a rival who is getting close to victory.
The possibilities are limited only by your own duplicity. 
Remember, though, that money may be exchanged only 
between Illuminati treasuries.
Capturing Several Groups 
at Once
Protecting those Groups that control many puppets 
is vitally important – you stand to lose greatly if one 
is taken from you. Equally true: A game can be won 
by a well-timed strike at a Group that controls several 
puppets and fits well into your power structure.
Democrats
Liberal group.
Congressional 
Wives
Cycle Gangs
+2 on any attempt to 
destroy any group.
Antiwar 
Activists
Moral 
Minority
Figure 5. The player in this example will need 
to reorganize his Power Structure – possibly 
wasting valuable time – before long. The player in 
Figure 2 (p. 3) is free to expand. Careful attention 
is necessary when adding or moving groups.