3 - 8 p l a y e r s | A g e s 1 2 + 
R U L E S O F P L AY 
T H E V I S U A L 
C H A R A D E S G A M E

CONTENTS
61 transparent cards
65 Enigma cards
35 tokens
Win the most points by guessing and getting the other 
players to guess enigmas with the help of the transparent 
cards.
SET UP 
 1 Arrange all of the transparent cards in a large 		
 circle on the playing surface. 
 2 Put the tokens within easy reach.
 3 Shuffle the Enigma cards and place them in a pile.

The playing area 
is the space inside 
the circle.

HOW TO PLAY
The most creative player goes first. (If you cannot decide, the youngest one 
starts). On your turn, you have to get the other players to guess an enigma. 
To do this, you must:
 1 Draw an Enigma card. Another random player calls out a number between 
 1 and 8 which tells you which enigma on the card has to be guessed. 
	
• If you do not know this enigma you can pick the next one down 
	
 or above (for line 1 choose between 8 or 2 and for line 8, 
	
 between 7 and 1.)
 Note: Younger players can choose any other enigma on the card.
 2 Say the enigma’s clue aloud, shown in bold above the word.
 
 3 Get the other players to guess your enigma using the 
 transparent cards. Look around at the all of the transparent cards, 
 then take as many as you like to create your clue. You may use the cards 
 however you want, according to these guidelines:
	
YOU MAY:
 	
• Use as many cards as you wish.
 	
• Put the cards together, put them on top of each other, 
 	
 combine them, and MOVE them.
 	
• Hide parts of the cards with your fingers.
 	
• Make 3D models of the cards by lifting them up from the table. 
	
YOU MAY NOT:
 	
• Speak, make noises or sing.
 	
• Mime with your hands.
 	
• Make letters or digits with the cards.

Hat!
As soon as you place the first card, the other players can start guessing your enigma. 
The first player who guesses the enigma and the player who placed the transparent 
cards both earn 1 point. (Each should take a token in front of them.) If several 
players give the correct answer at exactly the same time, they each earn 1 point.
Note: There is no time limit. If nobody guesses the enigma after a period of time 	
	
 decided by the players, then the round ends and nobody earns a point.
Use ALL the cards you like in any way you like!
You can 
PUT THEM TOGETHER
You can HIDE some 
parts with your fingers!
You can put them 
ON TOP OF 
EACH OTHER
Also a hat!
Dancer!

a plane flying around... 
A character climbing up 
a building...
King Kong!
 And you can even
do all that 
AT THE SAME TIME!
Above all you can ANIMATE
Jump!

NEXT TURN 
Return all of the used transparent cards back to the circle. Then it is the next player's turn 
(clockwise) to get the players to guess a new enigma.
 
ENDING THE GAME
The game ends when each player has managed to get the other players to correctly guess 
2 enigmas. The player who accumulates the highest number of points is the winner. 
If there is a tie, play one more deciding round!
 
	
	
 “UNLIMITED IMAGINATION” VERSION
Once you have played a few times, get the other players to guess an enigma of your own 
creation instead of from a card. When it is your turn, provide a relevant clue (film, 
character, object...) and you are off to the races! You can also personalize your enigmas 
with common interests (works of art, book titles, video games...) or more personal themes 
such as “William’s favorite toy”, your vacation destination or “mother-in-law”... 
Make sure to pick something that all the players know about!

A WORD FROM GAMEWRIGHT
A great game transcends language and culture. Such is the case with Imagine, 
which came to us from Japan via our French publishing partners, Cocktail Games. 
We’ve played many guessing games, but what stands out about this one is the 
collection of transparent icon cards that, when combined, allow you to convey your 
chosen subject without saying a word! After a couple of rounds, you’ll be amazed at 
your ability to communicate using the universal language of creativity. Take pictures 
of your most inspired visual clues and share them with us via Facebook, Instagram 
or Twitter. We’ll create an album of our favorites! 
Game by Shotaro Nakashima
Licensed with permission from Cocktail Games (www.cocktailgames.com) and Moonster Games Asia.
Games for the Infinitely Imaginative
70 Bridge Street
Newton, MA 02458
Tel: 617-924-6006 
email: jester@gamewright.com
http://www.gamewright.com
©2016 Gamewright, a division of Ceaco, Inc.
All rights reserved.
Follow us!
Facebook.com/gamewright
@gamewright
@gamewright