14+
Ages
3+
Players
CONTAINS:
264 Imagin ® 
cards divided into 
3 categories
64 voting cards
1 Imagin ® pen
1 ? token
1 Game board
8 movers
1 Die
1 cloth eraser
GAME
To Win: Be the first player to reach the Winner’s space!
 
SETUP:
To begin, write the name of each player on one of the blank, numbered spaces on the game board, using the 
dry erase marker. If there are fewer than eight players, fill the empty spaces with the names of people all of 
the players know. (You can use the names of celebrities, fictional characters, - you decide!)
Note: at the end of every game, erase the names on the board so that the ink doesn’t set over time.
Each player should choose a colored mover and the group of number cards that matches that color. Place 
each mover on the START space. 
The numbered cards, 1 through 8, match a name written on the board and will be used to vote.
 
Place the ? token on the number 1 name space. The ? token will let 
 
you know who will be the subject of each card.
 
Each set of question cards — divided by the colors on the back of the
 
cards — should be shuffled individually and placed into three piles, 
 
near the game board. 
 
The youngest player starts and play moves clockwise. 
PLAYING THE GAME:
On each turn, the player rolls the die. 
The die will tell you two things: 
1) The color determines the QUESTION
 
CATEGORY to be played for the turn. 
2) The number on the die determines HOW 
 
MANY SPACES the question is worth.
 
For example, the die shown 
 
means that a gray question 
 
will be read. (This is the 
 
EVERYBODY category.) 
The question will be worth two. Players who 
vote for the majority choice will move two 
spaces on the board. (More about majority 
choices later.)
For each turn, a player will draw a card from 
the appropriate deck and read the Imagin ® 
question. (Category instructions follow.) 
 
After the question is read, players will make 
their choice by voting with a number card. 
These cards are placed face down so the 
voting is secret!
Note: For the categories EVERYBODY and 
VERSUS, the number will match a player’s 
name on the board. For CHOICES, the number 
will match multiple answers offered.
When EVERYONE has voted, including the 
reader, all cards should be turned over. 
EVERYONE who VOTED for the winning name 
gets to move the number of spaces shown on 
the die. 
For example, three players voted for Marcia 
and one player voted for Brian. In this case, 
everyone who voted for Marcia moves the 
number of spaces shown on the die.
If more than one answer gets an equal 
number of majority votes, ALL the players 
who voted for ALL those answers get to move.
If ALL players voted for a different answer, 
NO ONE gets to move forward. 
CHOICES
 
If red is rolled on the die, the
 
reader should choose the top card 
 
from the CHOICES pile. Next, they
should move the ? token to the next 
name, in numerical order, on the board. 
They will insert this name in the blank 
space when reading the card aloud.
Players choose from the multiple-choice 
answers and vote.
For example:
The question reads:
Imagin ® _______
were a TV show. Which would they be?
The next name on the board is Marcia so 
the player reads:
Imagin ® Marcia were a TV show. 
Which would they be?
Sesame Street
Survivor
Law and Order
The Office
Sex in the City 
Mad Men
CARD CATEGORIES
Please remove all components from the package and compare them to the component 
list. If any items are missing, please call 1-800-524-8697. Outside the U.S., please 
consult the listing of your local Mattel offices at the end of these instructions.
Please remove all components from the package and compare them to the component list. If 
any items are missing, please call 1-800-524-8697. Outside the U.S., please consult the listing 
of your local Mattel offices at the end of these instructions.
EVERYBODY
 
If gray is rolled on the die, the reader
 
should choose the top card from the
 
EVERYBODY pile and read aloud.
Players will choose from all the names on 
the game board when voting.
VERSUS
 
If black is rolled on the die, the 
 
reader should choose the top card 
 
from the VERSUS pile. Next, they 
should move the ? token to the next 
name, in numerical order, on the board. 
They will insert this name in the blank 
space when reading the card aloud.
For example:
The question reads:
Imagin ® _______ and I
were both bicycles. Who would have 
training wheels?
The next name on the board is Pat so the 
player reads:
Imagin ® Pat and I were both bicycles. 
Who would have training wheels?
For VERSUS only, in the event the ? mark 
lands on the READER’S name, move to the 
next name on the board.
WINNING:
The first player to get their mover to the final space wins!
 
If two or more players tie, EVERYONE plays a tiebreaker round to determine the winner. 
The game is played as normal until one of the tied players emerges victorious. More than 
one tiebreaker round may be played, if necessary.
© 2010 Mattel, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. Consumer Relations - 
Mattel, Inc. 636 Girard Avenue, East Aurora, NY 14052, U.S.A. 1-800- 
524-8697. Retain this address for future reference: Mattel U.K. Ltd., Vanwall Business Park, 
Maidenhead SL6 4UB. Helpline - 01628 500303. Mattel Europa, B.V., Gondel 1, 1186 MJ Amstelveen, Nederland. 
Mattel Australia Pty Ltd., Richmond, Victoria. 3121. Consumer Advisory Service - 1300 135 312. Mattel East Asia Ltd., Room 1106, South 
Tower, World Finance Centre, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, HK, China. Diimport & Diedarkan Oleh: Mattel SEA Ptd Ltd. (993532-P) Lot 13.5, Menara Lien Hoe, 
Persiaran Tropicana Golf Country Resort, 47410 PJ. Tel: 03-78803817, Fax: 03-78803867.
GRAPHIC DESIGNER: Jane Ruan
PI ENGINEER: 
PROJECT ENGINEER: 
CS VENDOR: 
IASIK
SOFTWARE: 
Illustrator CS3
COLOR PROFILE/LPI: Mag CCNB / 175lpi
CS DATE: 
10/06/10
ITEM NO.: 
T8132-9993 
LANG.: DOM
PART CODE: T8132-0920
ITEM NAME: IMAGINIFF GAME 
TOY YEAR: 
2011 
PKG. SIZE: 
8.5”(W) x 14”(H)
PKG. SPEC.: IS 
VER.: 1st Run
BLANK SIZE: 10”X17” 
SIGN OFF
(GRAPHIC):
DATE:
PROOF APPROVAL
NOTES TO PRINTER:
Proofs accurate for 
process color only. All 
spot colors must follow 
PMS Color Formula 
Guide or color 
swatch speciﬁed.
Dieline
T8132-0920
C10C1006-1-T8132_0920_DOM_IS