For 2-4 Players, Ages 10 Years and Up
GAME STORY
Imhotep was the first and most famous master builder of ancient Egypt. 
He is considered one of the earliest polymaths in the history of humanity. 
For example, he is said to have been responsible for building the very first 
pyramid in Egypt — the Pyramid of Djoser in Saqqara. Can you match 
his accomplishments in creating monuments for the ages? You will need 
ships to transport blocks of stone to various building sites. But you will not 
be the only one making decisions about where to send the ships and their 
cargoes. Your opponents will have their own plans and will try to prevent 
your success. A fierce competition will unfold over the most valuable stone 
shipments. It will take clever tactics and a little luck to achieve success.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Game Story. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Instructions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Publisher’s Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Explanations of the 
A Sides of the Sites. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Variant: The B Sides of the Sites. . . . . . . . 9
Variant: Wrath of the Pharaoh. . . . . . . . 11
At a Glance: Explanations 
of the Market Cards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
692384-02-060716

Ship tokens
GAME OBJECTIVE
Each player assumes the role of an Egyptian master 
builder. You will have 6 rounds to transport your stones 
to the various sites and to erect monuments in such a 
way that you earn the most points. Whenever your turn 
comes up, you will select one of the following 4 action 
options:
•	 Get new stones
•	 Place 1 stone on the ship
•	 Sail 1 ship to a site
•	 Play 1 blue market card
Delivering the stones gets you various points in various 
ways — sometimes more points, sometimes fewer; 
sometimes right away, sometimes at the end of a round, 
and sometimes at the end of the game. Whoever has the 
most points after 6 rounds is the winner.
GAME MATERIALS
120	Wooden blocks (called “stones”) 
	
(30 in each of the 4 game colors: 
	
black, white, brown, and gray)
 5	 Site boards
 1	 Scoring track board
 8	 Ship tokens
 4	 Supply sled tokens
	
(1 in each of the 4 game colors: 
	
black, white, brown, and gray)
 21	Round cards
 34	Market cards
Supply sled tokens
Site boards

Round cards
Market cards
Stone quarry 
(with all players’ stones)
Scoring track board 
(You can earn more than 40 points. In this case, 
just keep moving your stone block around the board 
and remember that you have circled the board once 
already.)
Starting player
(2 stones on his or 
her supply token)
GAME PREPARATION
•	 Place the 5 site boards in the center of the table as 
shown in the illustration. All site boards have an A side 
and a B side. In your first few games, use the A side. 
You can use the B sides in later games as a variant to the 
standard game play. So be sure that the A sides of the 
boards are showing in your first game.
•	 Place the scoring track board to the right of the site 
boards. Use this to keep track of all players’ points. 
•	 Have the 8 ship tokens ready above the boards.
•	 Separate the 21 round cards from the 34 market cards.
•	 Shuffle the 34 market cards and place them face down 
as a draw pile to the right of the “A) Market” board.
•	 There are 7 round cards for two, three, and four 
players.
2 heads on them in a 
two-person game.
3 heads on them in a 
three-person game.
4 heads on them in a 
four-person game.
Pull out the 7 round cards corresponding to your 
number of players. You will not need the other 14 
round cards. Place them back in the box. Since you 
will only be playing for 6 rounds, you must now pick 
one of your 7 round cards at random (without looking 
at it) and place it back in the box as well. Shuffle the 
remaining 6 round cards and place them face down in 
a single stack next to the 8 ship tokens.
•	 Each player chooses a color (black, white, brown, or 
gray) and gets a supply sled token in that color.
•	 With fewer than 4 players, the unused supply sled 
token(s) and stones of the unused color(s) go back in the 
box.
•	 All of the stones go in a pile to the right of the site 
boards, forming the stone quarry.
•	 Each player places 1 stone in his or her color on the 
“0/40” space of the scoring track.
•	 Decide who will be the player to start. The starting 
player gets 2 stones in his or her color from the stone 
quarry and places them on his or her supply sled token. 
The second player (who is the player to the left of the 
starting player) gets 3 stones for his or her supply sled 
token, the third player (the player to the left of the 
second player) gets 4 stones, and the fourth player gets 
5 stones, each in their color.

COURSE OF PLAY
The game is played over 6 rounds.
COURSE OF A ROUND
Each round proceeds as follows:
•	 At the start of the round, turn over the top round 
card. It will indicate which 4 ship tokens are available 
in this round. Arrange these tokens spaced not too 
closely together to the left of the site boards. 
There are ships with various amounts of space for 
stones: 
Two boats have space for 4 stones, three have 
space for 3 stones, two have space for 2 stones, 
and one boat has space for 1 stone.
Example: If you have turned over the round card shown 
above, take one four-stone ship, one three-stone ship, and 
two two-stone ships, and arrange them spaced not too 
closely together to the left of the site boards.
•	 Then turn over the top four market cards from the 
draw pile and place them face up on the market board. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the draw pile is empty, shuffle the discard pile and 
create a new draw pile.
•	 Then all the players take their actions in turns, 
beginning with the starting player.
Each turn goes as follows:
TURN
The player whose turn it is must carry out exactly one of 
the following 4 actions:
Get new stones
Take 3 stones of your color from the stone quarry and 
place them on your supply sled token.
Note: Your supply sled token has enough space for a 
maximum of 5 stones! 
For example, if you only have space for 2 stones and you 
choose this action, you can only take 2 stones from the quarry.
If you already have 5 stones on your supply sled or there 
are no more stones of your color in the quarry, then you 
cannot take any more stones.
Place 1 stone on a ship
Take 1 stone from your supply sled token and place it on 
any empty space on a ship that has not yet sailed to a site.
If you do not have any stones on your supply sled or there is 
no free space on any ship, then you cannot take this action.
Sail 1 ship to a site
Slide 1 ship to a site board.
You must observe 2 conditions, however:
1)	 The ship must already be loaded with at 
least the minimum required number of 
stones. The gray stone symbols at the bow 
of the ship indicate the minimum number 
for that ship. This number varies from ship to ship.
2)	 The site to which the ship is sailing must still have 
an open dock. In other words, no other ship can have 
sailed to it in this round.
The ship’s stones are then unloaded by their owners 
(indicated by color) in order from front to back and 
delivered to the site — beginning with the stone placed 
closest to the front. Ignore any empty spaces on the ship. 
If no ship is loaded with the minimum required number 
of stones, then you cannot take this action.

4.
1.
3.
2.
At each of the 5 sites, there are different rules for what 
the stone’s owner will receive for each stone delivered, 
and when they will receive it. The market and the 
pyramid are assessed immediately. The temple is 
assessed at the end of each round. The burial chamber 
and the obelisks are not assessed until the end of the 
game. Read the exact rules for each site under the 
“Explanations of the A sides of the sites” heading on 
pages 7 and 8 of this manual.
Important: You are also permitted to sail a ship when 
you do not have a stone of your own on it. The only 
requirement is that both of the above conditions must be 
met. After a site has been sailed to, the now-empty ship 
remains at the site’s mooring area until the end of the 
round. This way, you can see that no more ships can sail 
to that site during that same round. No more than one 
ship can sail to any given site per round.
Example: This four-stone ship was sailed to the pyramid. 
Beginning with the stone closest to the front, all the stones 
are now placed on the pyramid. The pyramid yields points 
immediately for each stone delivered, in accordance with 
the number value indicated on the space.
Play 1 blue market card
If you have one of these cards, you can play it and make 
use of its benefit.
The played card is then placed on the discard pile.
You can only play 1 blue market card per turn.
Each player takes action in turns and always performs 
exactly one action per turn.
Each player’s turn will come up several times per round. 
The round does not end until all 4 ships have been sailed 
to the various sites.
Important: Since there are only 4 ships available per 
round, there will always be 1 of the 5 site boards that will 
not be sailed to in each round!
END OF ROUND
When all 4 ships have been sailed to the sites, the round 
ends immediately.
Now the temple is assessed. Each stone visible from above 
yields 1 point. In other words, stones covered by other 
stones no longer yield any points.
Example: The temple is assessed at the end of the round. 
Here, the gray player gets 2 points (for 2 stones visible from 
above). The white, brown, and black players get 1 point 
each (each for 1 stone visible from above).
Prepare FOR THE NEXT ROUND
•	 Return the 4 ships to the pile of other ships.
•	 Gather up any market cards still remaining on the 
market board and place them on the discard pile. 
•	 All stones already placed on site boards and supply sled 
tokens stay in place.
The next round begins.
Turn over the next round card from the pile, get the 4 
ships indicated on the card, and place them to the left of 
the site boards.
Turn over 4 new market cards from the pile and place 
them on the market board.
The starting player for the new round is the player to 
the left of the player who sailed the fourth ship in the 
previous round.
END OF GAME
The game ends after 6 rounds. 
Then the final point assessment, or scoring, takes place.
Final point assessment (scoring)
Start by assessing the stones in the burial chamber. The 
point assessment is explained on page 7 under the “A) 
Burial chamber” heading.
Then it is time to assess the obelisks. Their point 
assessment is explained on page 8 under the “A) 
Obelisks” heading.
The decoration and statue market cards yield points 
in accordance with what is printed on them. The point 
assessment of the cards is explained on page 12. Unused 
blue market cards yield an additional value of 1 point 
each.
The player with the most points is the winner. 
In case of a tie: The player with the greater number of 
stones on his or her supply sled token is the winner. If 
this is also a tie, the tied players share first place.

PUBLISHER’S INFORMATION
Author:
Since childhood, Phil Walker-Harding 
has loved playing and inventing board 
games. He particularly likes games that 
bring together people of different ages 
and personality types. 
Phil is also interested in theology, classic 
Hollywood films, and the myths of 
ancient Egypt. He lives with his wife Meredith in Sydney, 
Australia.
The prototype edition of “Imhotep,” under the name 
“Builders of Egypt,” won second place in the Premio 
Archimede board game designers’ competition in 2010.
Illustration: Miguel Coimbra
Graphics: Michaela Kienle
Editor, Original German Edition: Ralph Querfurth
English Translation: David Gamon
English Text Editing: Ted McGuire
Phil Walker-Harding and KOSMOS thank all the test 
players and rule reviewers.
Special thanks go to Meredith Walker-Harding, Leo 
Colovini, Chris Morphew, Nick Barnett, Kerryn and 
Andrew Young, Josh and Naomi Pryde, Marion Engelke, 
Maria Fischer-Witzmann, Arnd Fischer, Thomas Wessels 
and Markus Potthast.
© 2016 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; Web: kosmos.de
© 2016 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. All 
rights reserved.
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, RI 
02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872; Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK, LP. Goudhurst, 
Kent TN17 2QZ 
Phone: 01580 212000; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne

EXPLANATIONS of THE 
A SIDES OF THE SITES
A)	Market
owner of the stone can 
immediately take any 
1 face-up market card. 
Explanations of the various market cards can be found 
on page 12 of this manual. 
Important: The delivered stones must be returned to the 
quarry after taking the card.
Drawn cards must be placed face up in front of you.
The red cards must be played immediately. These are 
then placed in the discard pile.
The blue market cards can be played exactly once as an 
action in a later turn of the player who draws it. The 
purple statue cards and the green decoration cards will 
earn you points at the end of the game.
Example: This four-stone ship was sailed to the market. 
The white player can first take a card and she selects the 
sail card. Then the brown player chooses the statue card. 
Then the gray player chooses the lever card. By the end, 
all of the stones that were on the ship are returned to the 
quarry.
A)	 Pyramids
For each stone delivered 
here, the owner of the 
stone earns points 
immediately. Place the 
stone on the next free space in the pyramid. Stones are 
placed column by column. Placement of the stones begins 
at the top left until the column is full. Continue to the 
center column, starting again at the top.
When the first level (3x3 stones) is full, continue building 
in the second level, as shown in the illustration.
In the second level, start once again at the top left. The 
second level only includes 2x2 stones, however.
When the second level is full, continue building in the 
third level, which only consists of one single stone.
Each stone that you place yields the number of points 
indicated on the space. The values of the spaces in the 
second and third levels are indicated on the right side of 
the board.
Once the pyramid is completely built, each additional 
stone delivered to the pyramid yields 1 point. Place these 
stones at the right edge of the pyramid board.
Example: The illustration above shows how a completed 
pyramid (consisting of 3 levels) can look at the end.
A)	Temple
owner of the stone 
earns points at the end of the round if the stone is visible 
from above. 
Place the stone on the next free space in the temple. 
Placement of the stones begins from the left, until the 
first level is full. With 3 and 4 players, all 5 spaces of the 
temple are covered. With 2 players, just the first 4 spaces 
are covered.
When the first level is full, continue to the second level, 
beginning again from the left. The stones on the first 
level are covered over in the process, and so on with 
additional levels. There is no height limit.
Example: This three-stone ship was sailed to the temple. 
The first brown stone goes on the last free space on the 
lowest level. The second brown stone goes on the first space 
on the second level. The white stone goes on the second 
space on the second level.
A)	Burial Chamber
owner of the stone 
earns points at the 
end of the game. Stones are placed column by column. 
Placement of the stones begins at the top left until 
the column is full. Then continue to the next column, 
starting again from the top, and so on.

The burial chamber is unrestricted in the rightward 
direction. In other words, there can be as many columns 
as you like, even if you have to go to the end of the board.
At the end of the game, points are earned as follows: Each 
area consisting of one stone or more than one connected 
stones of a single color yields a certain number of points 
depending on the number of stones. Connected stones 
must be touching along at least one side. Stones touching 
only diagonally at corners are not connected. 
Number of stones:
Points: 
In areas with more than 5 connected stones, each 
additional connected stone yields an additional 2 points.
Important: Each player can get points for more than one 
“field” of connected stones. So don’t just add up points 
for the largest field for one player!
Example: This four-stone ship was sailed to the burial 
chamber. The stones are unloaded in order and placed on the 
burial chamber column by column starting from the top left.
Example: In a game with four players, the burial chamber 
could look as shown in the illustration above. The white 
player gets 3 points for her field consisting of 2 stones. Black 
gets 1 point for his 1-stone field. Brown gets 6 points for her 
field of 3 stones and 1 point for her 1-stone field. Gray gets 
15 + 2 = 17 points for his field consisting of 6 stones.
A)	Obelisks
For the stones delivered 
here, the players earn 
points at the end of 
the game. Place each 
stone delivered here on the space matching your color. In 
that way, you will create a stacked tower of your stones. 
Each player will be building his or her own obelisk. Add 
up the points at the end of the game — with the tallest 
obelisk getting the most points, of course.
two-person game:
The player with the tallest obelisk gets 10 points. 
The person with the second-tallest obelisk gets 1 point.
three-person game: 
The player with the tallest obelisk gets 12 points. 
The player with the second-tallest obelisk gets 6 points. 
The player with the third-tallest obelisk gets 1 point.
four-person game: 
The player with the tallest obelisk gets 15 points. 
The player with the second-tallest obelisk gets 10 points. 
The player with the third-tallest obelisk gets 5 points. 
The player with the fourth-tallest obelisk gets 1 point.
Important:
•	 You must have delivered at least 1 stone to the obelisks 
to participate in this point assessment.
•	 In case of a tie, divide the total points among the 
number of players who tied. Every player involved in the 
tie shares in the divided-up point total rounded down 
to the nearest whole number.
Example: This three-stone ship was sailed to the obelisks. 
The stones are placed on the correspondingly-colored spaces 
and stacked into towers. 
Example: In a four-person game, the black player ends up 
with an obelisk that is 3 stones tall. The white player has a 
4-stone tower. The brown player has no stones at all. The 
gray player has 3 stones. That means that the white player 
gets 15 points. The black and gray players share second and 
third places. They both get (10 + 5) / 2 = 7.5 points, which 
when rounded down yields 7 points for each player. Brown 
gets no points, because he did not deliver any stones at all 
to the obelisks.

Variant: 
THE B SIDES OF THE SITES
All site boards have an A side and a B side. You should 
always start playing with just the A sides. Later on, you 
can try the B sides. 
You can also play with a mix of A and B sides. Why not 
try various combinations?
B)	Market
following difference:
At the start of the round, place 2 cards face down on the 
card space at bottom right (instead of 1 face-up card).
For a stone delivered to the market, you can pick up both 
cards and look at them. Then, select 1 card to keep. Place 
the other card face up on the discard pile. 
B)	Pyramids
For a stone delivered to the pyramids, the owner of the 
stone gets to decide which of the 3 pyramids the stone is 
to be delivered to.
Some of the pyramids yield special bonuses:
You get 1 point and can take the top market 
card from the draw pile. 
You get 1 point and can immediately take 3 
stones from the quarry and place them on the 
supply sled token. 
You get 1 point and can place 1 stone from your 
supply sled token on any empty space of a ship 
that has not yet sailed to a site.
Each pyramid is started from the top left. Stones are 
placed column by column. 
Each stone in the second level of a pyramid is worth 
4 points. Once the pyramids are completed, each 
additional stone delivered to the pyramids yields 1 point. 
Place these stones at the right edge of the pyramid board.
Example: This 4-stone ship was sailed to the pyramids. The 
brown player places her first stone on the first space of the 
middle pyramid. Then, the black player places his stone on 
the second space of the middle pyramid. Then, the brown 
player places her second stone on the third space of the 
middle pyramid. Finally, the white player places his stone 
on the first space of the left pyramid. 
B)	Temple
following difference:
At the end of each round, there are various bonuses for 
each stone visible from above — depending on the temple 
space on which the stone is placed:

You get 1 point or, if you prefer, you can take 
2 stones from the quarry and place them on 
your supply sled token.
You get 2 points.
You get the top market card from the draw 
pile.
 
Example: The point assessment for the temple is performed 
at the end of the round. The gray player can decide 
whether to take 1 point or 2 stones from the quarry. The 
brown player gets 2 points. The white player gets to decide 
whether to take 1 point or 2 stones from the quarry. In 
addition, the white player gets to take the top market card 
from the draw pile. The black player gets to decide whether 
to take 1 point or 2 stones from the quarry.
B)	Burial Chamber
At the end of the game, the players earn points for having 
the greatest number of stones in the 3 rows of the burial 
chamber.
Each row is assessed individually.
Important:
•	 You must have at least 1 stone in a row in order to be 
involved in the point assessment for that row.
•	 The stones of any one color do not have to be adjacent.
•	 In case of a tie, add up the placement points and divide 
them among the number of tied players. Every player 
involved in the tie shares in the divided-up point total 
rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Example: The burial chamber point assessment is 
performed at the end of the game.
In the top row, the white player has the greatest number of 
stones (3). For that, she gets 8 points. With 1 stone each, the 
brown and gray players share second and third places. For 
that, they each get (4 + 2) / 2 = 3 points.
In the middle row, the black player has the greatest 
number of stones (3), and gets 8 points. White is in second 
place with 1 stone, and gets 4 points. Brown and gray 
have no stones in this row, so they get no points.
In the bottom row, gray has the greatest number (4), and 
gets 8 points. None of the other players are in the row, so 
they get no points.
B)	Obelisks
Each stone delivered here is first placed on a space with the 
corresponding color. 
When the third stone of any given color is delivered, these 
stones immediately have their value assessed. The 3 stones 
are stacked in a single tower on the free space with the 
highest point value. The owner of the stones immediately 
receives these points.
Individual stones that do not make it into an obelisk earn 1 
point each at the end of the game.

Example: This 3-stone ship was sailed to the obelisks. The black player places his stone on one of the empty spaces on the 
board. The white player adds her stone to the other two white stones. Since there are now 3 white stones at the obelisks, these 
stones are stacked into a tower on the next free space (with a point value of 9). The white player immediately gets 9 points. 
Then, gray places his stone on one of the board’s empty gray spaces.
Variant: 
WRATH OF THE PHARAOH
If you want to play with somewhat “harsher” rules, you 
can try the following rule variation:
You are punished if you fail to participate in the building 
of all four monuments.
Any player who has not delivered at least 1 stone to each 
of the four building sites — pyramid, temple, burial 
chamber, and obelisks — by the end of the game must 
have 5 points deducted from his or her score.

AT A GLANCE: 
EXPLANATIONS of THE 
MARKET CARDS
In this section, you will find an overview of all of the 
market cards and a more detailed description of the way 
they work. Wait to read these explanations until a given 
market card comes into play.
Entrance, Sarcophagus, and Paved Path (2 of each)
When you get a market card like this, immediately place 
1 of your stones from the quarry on the corresponding 
site. The stone is placed on the next available space, 
following the normal rules of building on that site. The 
card is then placed on the discard pile.
Pyramid Decoration, Temple Decoration, 
Burial Chamber Decoration, and Obelisk 
Decoration (2 of each)
When you get a market card like this, it remains face up in 
front of you until the end of the game.
At the end of the game, you earn 1 point for every 3 
stones (your own stones plus others’ stones added 
together) found at the corresponding site.
Example: In the burial chamber, there are 13 stones at the 
end of the game. That means that there would be 4 points 
granted for the burial chamber decoration card.
Statue (10x)
When you get a market card like this, it 
remains face up in front of you until the 
end of the game. At the end of the game, 
you count up the number of statue cards you have and 
receive points in accordance with the following table. 
Additional cards past 5 are worth 2 points each.
Example: One player has 3 statue cards at the end of the 
game. For those, she gets 6 points.
Blue Market Cards
You can only use exactly 1 blue market card per turn. 
The use of a blue market card is not in addition to, 
but instead of, the use of one of the three other action 
possibilities: “Get new stones,” “Place 1 stone on a ship,” or 
“Sail 1 ship to a site.” There are four different types of blue 
market cards: 
Lever (2)
Sail 1 ship to a site. Decide for yourself what sequence to 
follow when unloading the stones. 
As always, of course, both conditions for sailing a ship 
must have been met. After play, the card is placed on the 
discard pile. If you have not used the card by the end of 
the game, you will get 1 point for it. 
Hammer (2x)
When you get the market card, it remains 
Take 3 stones from the quarry and place them on your 
supply sled token. Then, place 1 stone from your supply 
sled token on 1 ship. 
Sail (3x)
Place 1 stone on 1 ship and sail this ship to a site. 
As always, of course, both conditions for sailing a ship 
must have been met. 
Chisel (3x)
Place 2 stones on 1 ship or 1 stone on each of 2 ships.