For 2 Players, Ages 10 Years and Up
Game objective
When it is your turn you can choose one of 
the following three actions:
	 • Place one meeple
	 • Unload one boat
	 • Play one action token
Unloading the boats causes you to receive 
monument tokens corresponding to the 
placement of your meeples. In the end, the 
monuments score points and the player with 
the most points wins.
Game Story
The competition of master builders continues! 
In Imhotep: The Duel, you play the roles of 
Nefertiti and Akhenaten — one of the most 
popular royal couples of ancient Egypt. 
Place your meeples tactically to unload the 
most valuable tokens from the six boats. 
Little by little you build your four monuments 
in order to gain as many points as 
possible and win the duel.

Game materials
•	 60	Cargo tokens
	 	
– 12 Obelisk tokens
	 	
– 12 Temple tokens (with 1, 2, 3, 
	 	
 or 4 symbols on them) 
	 	
– 12 Pyramid tokens (6 dark and 6 light) 
	 	
– 12 Tomb tokens (with the numbers 1–12) 
	 	
– 12 Action tokens (3 for each of the 
	 	
 4 different actions) 
•	 8 Site boards 
	 	
– 2 Obelisk boards
	 	
– 2 Temple boards
	 	
– 2 Pyramid boards
	 	
– 2 Tomb boards
•	 8 Meeples (4 for each player’s 
	 color: black and white) 
1st cargo space
3rd cargo space
2nd cargo space
Reserve 
space
9 Harbor 
 spaces
6 Moorings
•	 1 Harbor board (with 1 reserve space, 
	 9 harbor spaces and 6 moorings)
•	 6 Boat tokens (with 3 cargo spaces)

Game prepAration
a)	Place the harbor board between the two players.
b)	Place the six boat tokens in the six moorings of 
the harbor board. 
c)	Both players choose a color (black or white) and 
receive the four meeples of your color as well as one 
set of site boards (obelisk, temple, pyramid, and 
tomb), which you place in front of you. All site boards 
have an A-side and a B-side. In your first duels, you 
should only use the A-sides. 
d)	Shuffle all cargo tokens face down and build a 
face-down pile of supplies. 
e)	Place three randomly chosen cargo tokens face up 
on the cargo spaces on each of the six boats. Begin on 
the 1st cargo space, then the 2nd, and lastly the 
3rd cargo space. 
f)	Place three randomly chosen cargo tokens face 
down on the reserve space on the harbor board.
The nine spaces on the 
harbor board form a 
three by three grid, 
which has moorings 
for all six boat tokens 
on two sides. Each 
mooring belongs to one 
row or column consist-
ing of three spaces.
f)
c)
d)
c)
a)
e)
b)
In later duels, you may chose to try the B-sides 
as well. You can, of course, mix A-sides and B-sides. 
Make sure that both players use the same side for 
each location board.

Example: It is black’s 
turn and he places 
one of his meeples 
on one of the four 
remaining, empty 
harbor spaces.
Course of Play
The players take turns alternately until the end of the 
game is triggered. The younger player begins. The 
player whose turn it is, must choose exactly one of the 
following three actions: 
Place One Meeple
Take one of your meeples from your repository 
and place it on an unoccupied harbor space. 
(There may only be one meeple per harbor space.)
If all your meeples are already placed on harbor 
spaces, you cannot choose this action.
OR
Unload One Boat
Unload one boat that is moored at the end of a row 
or column that has at least two meeples of any color 
in it (even if none of the meeples belong to you).
If there are not at least two meeples of any color in a 
row or column, you may not choose this action.
Each meeple in the chosen row or column (and only 
in this row or column!) unloads one cargo token 
from the boat.
 
The following rule applies: 
The meeple closest to the boat unloads the cargo 
space farthest away from the harbor (3rd cargo 
space). The owner of this meeple returns the meeple 
to his or her repository and takes the corresponding 
cargo token off the boat.
This process is repeated until each meeple in this row 
or column has unloaded one cargo space. If a harbor 
space in this row or column is unoccupied, it is simply 
ignored. In this way it can happen that one of the 
cargo tokens is not unloaded. This cargo token is 
then returned to the box. Then the boat is loaded 
with three randomly chosen cargo tokens.
If the supply of cargo tokens is empty and the boat 
cannot be loaded, the boat is instead removed from 
the game.
	
 
Example: Black unloads one boat in his turn. He can choose any of 
the rows and columns as all of them contain at least two meeples. 
He may even choose the middle column, despite the fact that there 
are only white meeples there.
Black decides to unload the bottom row. Thus, Black receives the 
tomb token with the number 12 and, White, the temple token with 
one symbol. The dark pyramid token is removed from the game.

Received tokens are instantly placed next to the 
corresponding site boards: 
•	 Obelisk tokens are placed in a column above the 
obelisk board.
•	 Temple tokens are placed face down in a stack on 
the temple board.
•	 Pyramid tokens are placed above the 
correspondingly colored base on the pyramid 
board. There is space for a light and a dark 
pyramid. Each of the two pyramids can be built 
using up to six pyramid tokens (three tokens in 
the bottom row, two in the middle, one on top).
•	 Tomb tokens are placed according to their number.
•	 Action tokens are placed face up next to the 
site boards.
OR
Play One Action Token
If you possess an action token, you may play it and 
make use of its function. The played action token is 
then removed from the game and returned to the box.
You may only use one action token per turn. This is 
then considered your turn.
Overview of Action Tokens:
Take 1 Cargo Token: Choose one cargo 
token on any boat (exception: You may not 
take an action token). Place the chosen 
cargo token immediately next to your corresponding 
site board.
 
Take the uppermost cargo token from the reserve 
space and place it face up on the now empty cargo 
space.
 
Example: White plays the action token “Take 1 Cargo Token” as her 
turn. She may choose any of the cargo tokens on this boat, except 
the action token! She chooses the 4-symbol temple token. The empty 
cargo space is then refilled with the uppermost cargo token from the 
reserve field. 
Place 2–3 Meeples: Carry out the action 
“Place one Meeple” two or three times. The 
rules for this action apply as described on p. 4.
 
Place 1 Meeple and Unload 1–2 boats: First, 
carry out the action “Place one Meeple” and, 
then, carry out the action “Unload one Boat” 
once or twice. The rules for these actions apply as 
described on p. 4.
Swap 2 Cargo Tokens and Unload: Swap 
two cargo tokens on the same boat. Then 
unload a boat according to the rules on p. 4. 
The swapped cargo tokens do not have to be located 
on the boat you unload.
Example: White uses her “Swap 2 Cargo Tokens and Unload” token. 
She swaps two tokens on a boat and then unloads any boat.

End of Game
Players take turns alternately until the second to last 
boat is removed from the game and thus only one 
boat remains in the game. The game ends immediately 
and you determine who scored most points. Remem-
ber to remove boats from the game when their cargo 
spaces cannot be refilled. The last boat cannot be 
unloaded and no player receives its cargo tokens.
End Scoring
You gain points at each site (obelisk, temple, 
pyramids, tomb) in a different manner. 
Scoring using the A-Sides:
•	 Obelisk: Every obelisk token yields one point. If 
one of you has more obelisk tokens than the other, 
she or he receives six additional points.
•	 Temple: Each circle symbol on all of your temple 
tokens yields one point.
•	 Pyramids: Your light and dark pyramids score 
points individually. The more pyramid tokens you 
have used to build your pyramid, the more points 
you will receive. For 1/2/3/4/5/6 pyramid tokens in 
one pyramid, you receive 1/3/6/10/15/21 points.
•	 Tomb: For every 1/2/3/4/5 (or more) connected 
tomb tokens, you receive 1/4/9/16/25 points. 
You can score all groups of tomb tokens. Groups of 
tomb tokens occur when there is at least one empty 
space between the numerically sequential tokens. 
Advice: 
-	 Even a single tomb token is considered a “group.” 
-	 The tomb tokens 12 and 1 are not connected.
•	 Each unused action token yields one point.
•	 Each meeple still on a harbor field yields one point.
The player with the most points wins. If there is a tie, 
the player who did not start the game wins. 
Example: The Black player’s location boards look like this at the end of the game. The two obelisk tokens yield 2 points together. Black does not 
have the majority of obelisk tokens and thus does not receive 6 additional points. The 3 temple tokens have the values 1, 4, and 2, and thus 7 
points in total. The left pyramid consists of 4 pyramid tokens and therefore yields 10 points. The right pyramid consists of 6 pyramid tokens and 
yields 21 points. In the tomb, Black has a group of 6 connected tomb tokens, which yields 25 points. Additionally, Black has a group consisting of 
only 1 tomb token, which yields 1 point. Furthermore, Black has 2 unused action tokens, which yield 1 point each. The meeple on the harbor field 
also yields 1 point. In total, Black scores 69 points.

Variant B-Sides
For a more challenging game, you can turn over 
some or all site boards to their B-sides. The rules of 
the game remain the same — only the scoring for the 
different site boards changes:
•	 Obelisk: Whoever is the first to receive their fifth 
obelisk token places it face down and receives 
12 additional points at the end of the game. If the 
other player also has at least five obelisk tokens in 
the end, he or she receives six points — otherwise 
zero. If one of you has 10 or more obelisk tokens in 
the end, he or she receives 12 + 6 = 18 points.
•	 Temple: Temple tokens are now being stacked face 
up on the corresponding temple space according to 
their face value. You collect sets of temple tokens, 
which can consist of a maximum of four temple 
tokens (with 1, 2, 3, or 4 symbols respectively). 
Each set of 1/2/3/4 different temple tokens yields 
	
 1/4/9/16 points.
•	 Pyramids: Only the smaller pyramid (= the one 
with fewer pyramid tokens) yields points. If both 
pyramids are of equal size, only one will yield 
points. You will receive –6/0/4/10/15/30/45 points 
if your smaller pyramid consists of 0/1/2/3/4/5/6 
pyramid tokens.
•	 Tomb: Each group of connected tomb tokens 
yields four points regardless of their size. 
Therefore it would be ideal to have many single 
token groups with gaps between them. A single 
token is still considered a “group.”
•	 Each unused action token yields one point.
•	 Each meeple still on a harbor field yields one point.
Example: The Black Player’s location boards look like this at the end of the game. His fifth obelisk token is turned face down. Black therefore was 
the first to receive his fifth obelisk token and thus the obelisk yields 12 points. The sixth obelisk token has no value to him. The temple tokens are 
sorted into sets. The complete set (one of each face value) yields 16 points. The set with the temple tokens 1, 2, and 4 yields 9 points and the single 
2-symbol token yields 1 point. The left pyramid consists of no pyramid tokens, the right pyramid consists of 6 pyramid tokens. Because only the 
smaller pyramid, which has no pyramid tokens, scores points, Black receives -6 points. The three connected tokens (3, 4, 5) at the tomb form a 
group, which yields 4 points. The single tomb token (1) is considered a group as well and thus also yields 4 points. Furthermore, Black has 
2 unused action tokens, which yield 1 one point each. The meeple on the harbor field also yields 1 point. In total, Black scores 43 points.

Author:
Since childhood, Phil Walker-Harding 
has loved playing and inventing board 
games. He particularly likes games that 
bring together people of different ages 
and personality types. 
Phil is also interested in theology, 
classic Hollywood films, and the myths 
of ancient Egypt. He lives with his wife Meredith in 
Sydney, Australia.
Imhotep was nominated for the Spiel des Jahres (Game of 
the Year) in 2016.
Illustration: Miguel Coimbra
Graphics: Michaela Kienle
Editor, Original German Edition: Ralph Querfurth, 
Kilian Vosse 
English Text Editing: Ed Gartin, Ted McGuire
Phil Walker-Harding and Kosmos would like to thank 
all the play testers and rule reviewers.
© 2019 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; Web: kosmos.de 
© 2019 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames & 
Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872; 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK, 
LP. Cranbrook, Kent TN17 3HE 
Phone: 01580 713000 ; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
About the author and publisher
694272-02-130219