description
The world in 2030. Along with the United States, Russia and Europe, the 
new great powers China, India and Brazil have appeared on the horizon, in 
order to participate in the global race for power and influence. But ultimately, 
these six states are only puppets in a treacherous game, because their fates are 
controlled by powerful international investors operating in the background. 
Each player takes on the role of such an investor who is on the constant loo-
kout for the maximum return on his investment, and therefore tries to obtain 
a ruthless control of individual great powers. But his control of a state may 
also slip away, so that changes constantly occur, and new strategic constella-
tions and conflicts arise. 
Imperial 2030 for two to six players combines economic calculus and military 
skills to a unique strategy game without any luck of dice or cards.
The Game Board......................................................................................3
GAME MATERIALS.......................................................................................4
SET-UP..............................................................................................................4
Game Play ....................................................................................................6
OBJECT OF THE GAME / END OF THE GAME....................................6
TREASURIES / START OF THE GAME....................................................7
SPACES ON THE RONDEL ........................................................................7
Factory............................................................................................................7
Production......................................................................................................7
Import............................................................................................................8
Maneuver........................................................................................................8
Investor.........................................................................................................11
Taxation........................................................................................................12
Variants of Imperial 2030.................................................................13
FreqUently asked questions (FAQ)...........................................14
Tips on strategy....................................................................................15
About the history of Imperial 2030..........................................15
Short Overview: Differences in comparison to “Imperial“....................16
Contents

The Game Board
There are six Great Powers on the gameboard: Russia, China, India, Brazil, United States and Europe. 
These Great Powers are also referred to as “nations“. The players take the roles of International 
investors who reside in Switzerland and control the government of these nations. Therefore, Switzerland 
is a neutral region that armies cannot enter.
Province “Moscow“
Each nation consists of 4 home 
provinces with one city each. 
One factory can be built in 
these provinces, either as a 
shipyard (12 blue cities) or as 
an armament facility (12 brown 
cities).
Land region 
“Mongolia“
The 27 brown land 
regions are located 
outside the six nations. 
Only armies are allowed 
to enter them.
Scoring Track 
Shows the current 
power points for the 
six nations (0-25). 
Above the current 
power points is the 
Power Factor.
Rondel
The six nations 
choose the 
actions that 
make up their 
turns here.
Treasury of India
Repository for Indian money 
and bonds.
Sea region 
“Tasman Sea“
Only fleets are 
allowed to enter 
the 11 blue sea 
regions.
Tax Chart
Depending on the current tax (1st line) the chart 
shows the resulting bonus for the government (2nd 
line) and increase of power points (3rd line).

1. Initial set-up (see illustration below)
Nation Markers: A nation marker for each nation 
is placed into the middle of the rondel, and a 
second nation marker is placed on the first space 
of the scoring track (“0”). (The third marker is 
only necessary when playing a variant explained 
below) 
Factories: Each nation starts with two factories 
placed onto the square cities on the game board: 
a brown army armament facility on the brown 
squares and a light blue shipyard on the light blue 
squares. The 12 factories that have not yet been 
built are placed next to the game board.
Bonds: The 54 bonds are sorted according 
to their nations in six piles in ascending order 
(lowest value on top). Each pile is placed inside 
its nation’s treasury on the game board.
Bank: The money is sorted and placed next to 
the game board as the bank.
SET-UP
GAME MATERIALS
Printed tiles
•	 1 gameboard
•	 54 bond cards of the six nations, called 
”bonds“ below (in denominations of 2, 4, 6, 9, 
12, 16, 20, 25, 30 million)
•	 90 flags in 6 colors 
(15 per nation)
•	 6 nation flag cards
•	 1 investor card
•	 130 Bank notes (35 x 1 mil., 55 x 2 mil., 
25 x 5 mil., 15 x 10 mil.)
•	 1 instruction booklet
•	 1 quick intro 
Wooden components
•	 48 armies in the six nation colors 
(10 yellow; 6 red; all others 8 each)
•	 48 fleets in the six nation colors 
(6 yellow; 10 red; all others 8 each)
•	 24 factories (12 brown armament facilities 
and 12 light blue shipyards)
•	 18 octagonal markers in the six nation colors 
(one for the rondel, one for the scoring track 
and, as a variant, one for the tax chart)
•	 1 turn maker (wooden pawn)

Set-UP
2. Distributing the bonds 
The starting money and government(s) handed 
out to the players depend on the number of 
players. 
4 to 6 players:
Each player receives 13 million (1 x 5 million, 4 
x 2 million) from the bank.
The six nation flag cards are randomly dealt to the 
players so that each player gets one card.
3 players:
Each player receives 24 million (2 x 5 million, 
7 x 2 million) from the bank.
The nation flag cards of India, Russia, and China 
are randomly dealt to the 3 players. Each player 
then receives the matching nation flag card:
1: United States to India
2: Brazil to Russia
3: Europe to China
2 players:
Each player receives 35 million (3 x 5 million, 10 
x 2 million) from the bank.
The nation flag cards of China and Russia are 
randomly dealt to the 2 players. Each player then 
receives the two matching nation flag cards:
A: Europe and Brazil to China
B: India and United States to Russia 
The initial distribution of the bonds is shown on the 
backs of the nation flag cards. Each player takes 
the bonds shown on the back(s) of their card(s) 
from the bond pile and pays the corresponding 
price into the treasury of that nation. When all 
initial bonds are distributed among the players, 
each player will have 2 million remaining – the 
rest will be in the nations’ treasuries.
Each player keeps the nation flag card(s) that 
he has been dealt. This indicates that he has 
given the highest contribution to the nation and 
therefore forms that government.
With four or five players, not all nation flag cards 
are distributed initially. The remaining card(s) 
is/are given in each case to the player(s) who 
own(s) the “2 million” bond of this nation (since 
they have the highest credit sum). If none of a 
nation’s bonds have been distributed, its nation 
flag card remains in the bank for the moment.
Finally, the investor card goes to the player seated 
to the left of the player who controls Russia. If 
there is none, the investor card goes to the player 
to the left of the player who controls China.
Tip for 2 or 3 players:
When distributing the nation flag cards, there is a 
hint printed on the backside of each card:
3 players: cards with matching numbers
2 players: cards with matching letters
Using this hint, you can distribute the nation flag 
cards to the players without having to refer to 
the rulebook.
Variant for experienced players:
This variant for bond distribution increases 
the strategic possibilities and is therefore 
recommended for experienced players.
Each player gets the following starting money 
from the bank:
•	 With six players, 13 million
•	 With five players, 15 million
•	 With four players, 19 million
•	 With three players, 25 million
•	 With two players, 37 million
Choose a start player. This player has first choice 
for a Russian bond. If he decides to take one, he 
chooses one Russian bond from the bond pile 
and pays its amount into the Russian treasury 
that is on the game board. Then in clockwise 
order, all other players may also decide to select 
one remaining Russian bond and pay its amount 
into the Russian treasury.
After Russia, the same is done for the Chinese 
bonds. The player who is sitting to the left of the 
starting player is the first one allowed to choose 
a Chinese bond. After that, all other players 
in clockwise fashion are allowed to select any 
available Chinese bond (one per player).
Then bonds are given in turn to India, Brazil, the 
United States, and Europe in the same way. The 
price of the bond chosen must be paid into the 
respective treasury.
After every player had the opportunity to select 
bonds from each nation, the game can start.

Game Play 
OBJECT OF THE GAME / END OF THE GAME
The six imperial Great Powers (nations) operate 
on the game board. The players are investors 
who grant bonds to these nations. The player 
who has granted the highest credit amount 
(i.e., total purchase price) to a nation controls 
the government of that nation and decides the 
actions on the game board. This player is referred 
to as, in short, ”the government of the nation“.
Regardless of the number of players, all six Great 
Powers (nations) take part in every game.
Selecting a space on the rondel
A nation’s turn consists of choosing a space 
on the rondel. In a nation‘s first turn, the nation 
marker is placed on any space of the rondel. 
All following turns are chosen on the rondel by 
moving the nation marker clockwise; remaining in 
the same space is not allowed. The nation marker 
may be moved to one of the three spaces ahead 
at no cost; for each additional space past the first 
three the player who leads the government of that 
nation has to pay to the bank:
(1 + Power Factor on scoring track) in million
At the beginning, the Power Factor for each nation 
is zero, therefore each additional space costs 1 
million paid tot he bank. If for example a nation 
has reached 17 power points and the Power 
Factor therefore amounts to 3, each additional 
space costs 4 million etc. 
The maximum move on the rondel is six spaces.
China has 11 power points and is standing on the 
Investor space on the rondel. In order to choose 
Taxation on the next turn, China must move 
forward 4 spaces. The Chinese government 
(player) would have to pay 1+2 = 3 million to the 
bank. In order to move from Investor to Factory, 
the government would have to pay 6 million to 
the bank, etc.
According to their economic power (factories) 
and their military strength (occupied sea and land 
regions), the nations collect power points over 
the course of the game. These points are added 
on the scoring track. As soon as a nation has 
reached 25 power points, the game ends.
A player’s final score is the interest of their 
bonds multiplied by nations’ Power Factors on 
the scoring track, plus cash on hand.
At the end of the game India has 17 power 
points; the scoring track reads Power Factor 
“3”. The Indian bond on 12 million generates 
an interest of 5 million, resulting in the following 
value:
5 million (interest) x 3 (factor) = 15 million (value)
The players add up the values of all their bonds 
and, after that, add all their cash. Each million 
equals one victory point. The player with the most 
victory points wins the game.
In case of a tie, the player who has the higher 
credit sum in the nation with the most power 
points wins. If there is still a tie, the credit sums 
in the nation with the second most power points 
are compared for highest, and so on.

SPACES ON THE RONDEL 
TREASURIES / START OF THE GAME
The function of the spaces on the rondel is 
explained in the following passages.
Factory
The nation is allowed to build one new factory. 
Armament facilities may only be built in brown 
cities whereas shipyards may only be built in light 
blue cities. A factory may be built only in one 
of the nation’s own cities if there are no hostile 
armies (standing upright) in its home province. 
Only one factory may be built in each city.
The nation pays 5 million into the bank and the 
appropriate factory is placed on the game board 
in the chosen city.
Europe has factories in Paris and London. 
Therefore on theFactory space, a factory can be 
built either as a shipyard in Rome (light blue) or 
as an armament facility in Berlin (brown). To do 
that, 5 million must be paid from the treasury to 
the bank. (As an example if there were a hostile 
army in Berlin, only a factory in Rome could be 
built).
 
Production
Each armament facility and shipyard of a nation 
may produce one army or one fleet respectively 
for free. Factories in a home province in which 
hostile armies (standing upright) are present 
cannot produce. Nor can the occupying force 
itself produce in an occupied foreign factory. The 
new armies and fleets are placed on the game 
board in the home province of their factory. It is 
unimportant how many military units are already 
present in that region.
Europe owns factories in London, Paris and 
Rome. There is a hostile Chinese army (standing 
upright) in Paris, and a friendly US army 
(lying down) in London. When on the rondel 
”Production“ 
space, Europe 
can place a 
fleet in London 
and 
Rome, 
but no army in 
Paris.
Separate Funds
The treasury of the six imperial nations and the 
individual cash of the players have to be kept 
strictly separate. The players hold the treasuries 
they control in trust. They are not allowed to 
dispose of the treasuries personally nor lend or 
give away money from the treasury. However, they 
are allowed to give personal cash to the treasury 
at any time in order to support it financially.
Each player may check the contents of all 
treasuries at anytime for control purposes, but 
he may keep his own, personal cash secret from 
the other players.
Players are not allowed to lend or give money 
away to one other. They are also not allowed to 
trade bonds among each other or to relinquish 
them in any other way except as stipulated in 
the rules.
Start of play
Russia begins the game; after that, the nations 
move clockwise according to the order of their 
national treasuries on the edge of the game board 
(1. Russia, 2. China, 3. India, 4. Brazil, 5. United 
States and 6. Europe). 
The turn marker is used in each case to indicate 
each nation‘s turn. In case a nation has not been 
granted a bond, it has no government yet. In this 
case, the turn of this nation is skipped.
At the start of the game, the investor card goes 
to the player seated to the left of the player who 
controls Russia. If there is none, the investor card 
goes to the player to the left of the player who 
controls China.

Import - Maneuver
Import
The nation may buy military units for 1 million 
each from the bank. The number of military units, 
however, is limited to three in total. The military 
units may be placed in all home provinces that 
do not have hostile armies (standing upright). 
Fleets, however, may be placed only in light blue 
cities (harbors). Deploying several military units 
in the same home province at the same time is 
allowed.
China imports one fleet and two armies, paying 
3 million from its treasury into the bank. All three 
military units are placed in Shanghai. It would 
also have been possible to deploy the armies in 
any of the other three Chinese home provinces, 
but not the fleet.
This turn is conducted in three steps. First the fleets 
are moved, then the armies, and finally flags are 
placed in newly occupied regions.
1. Fleets 
All fleets of a nation are allowed to move to an 
adjacent sea region (to cross a blue sea border). 
After their production or their import, fleets stay 
in the harbor. Consequently, their first move is 
always to the sea region that is adjacent to the 
harbor. Once fleets are at sea, they cannot return 
to a land region.
Example for maneuvering fleets:
The fleet from the North Atlantic can either move 
into the Caribbean Sea, the Gulf of Guinea, or 
into the Mediterranean Sea. The fleet lying in 
the harbor of London can only move into the 
North Atlantic. As an alternative, any fleet may 
stay where it is.
If a fleet moves to a sea region in which fleets of 
other nations are present, it turns into a battle if 
at least one side demands it. In a battle the fleets 
are destroyed 1:1 and both removed from the 
game board. If a fleet enters into a region with 
more than one nation’s fleets, the government 
of the maneuvering fleet may choose which of 
the fleets in the region it wants to destroy. If the 
invader wants to stay friendly, however, he has to 
offer the opportunity for a battle to each other fleet 
present in the sea region. Therefore the other 
fleets are asked one after another if they want 
to do battle. If no side declares directly after the 
movement that it wants a battle, all fleets remain 
peacefully lying next to each other in the same 
sea region.
Fleets of the active nation that do not move can 
also battle fleets of other nations that are in the 
same sea region.
Example of a fleet battle:
If the blue fleet moves to the Caribbean Sea, 
Blue can decide whether the fleet should fight. If 
it does so, Blue can also decide whether its fleet 
fights against the green or the red fleet. If Blue 
does not want to do battle, the blue fleet moves 
to the Caribbean Sea and asks if anyone wants 
to fight. If, directly after this move, neither Red 
nor Green want a battle, all three fleets remain 
in the Caribbean Sea.
2. Armies 
All armies of a nation are allowed to move to 
an adjacent land region. Alternatively, they can 
also be transported overseas via their own fleets 
(convoy). In doing so, they may cross one or more 
adjacent sea regions provided the nation already 

has a fleet in that region. Each fleet may convoy 
only one army per turn.
A sea convoy is only possible if an army is in 
a land region that is adjacent to a sea region, 
or at least reaches this region by rail (see next 
paragraph). After the convoy, the army must be 
in a land region again. A fleet that moved during 
the fleet movement phase in the same maneuver 
turn, can still be used to convoy an army.
Example of sea transport (convoy):
One army from Vladivostok may, via fleets, 
land in Indonesia. Alternatively, it also could 
land in the Philippines, Indochina, Shanghai, 
Beijing or Korea. In these cases, however, the 
second army can no longer be convoyed over 
the China Sea since the fleet there has already 
been used for convoy by the first army. But the 
second army could land in Japan, for example, 
since there is another fleet in the Sea of Japan 
that has not yet convoyed any army. (To reach 
Korea, there is no convoy necessary.)
Rail transport: Each nation has an internal 
rail network within its home provinces that 
ends at its own national borders. If hostile 
armies (standing upright) are present in a 
home province, the rail network in this home 
province is suspended. Before or after their 
normal move, armies may be transported by 
rail within the country at will.
Example of a rail transport:
The Indian army from New Delhi could move 
freely by rail to Kolkata and then use its maneuver 
turn to invade either Indochina or Chongquing. 
Another possibility would be to move by rail to 
any coastal province and then use a sea convoy 
by fleet to any region surrounding the Indian 
Ocean. The army from Afghanistan however 
has no such opportunity, since it has no direct 
connection to the fleet. If this army would move 
into India, then it could get to each other Indian 
home province by rail. But its ”Maneuver“ turn 
would then be done, and it could neither leave 
India over a land border nor convoy to another 
land region by means of the fleet in the Indian 
Ocean.

Battles: A battle between armies is conducted in 
the same way as a battle between fleets, i.e., the 
active nation may destroy armies in land regions 
1:1. Armies of foreign nations can call for a battle 
if their land region has been invaded. Fleets and 
armies can battle against each other only if the 
fleet is still in the harbor. In this case, an invading 
army can attack the fleet or the fleet can call for 
a battle.
 
Entering provinces of other Great Powers: 
If an army moves into the home province of 
another Great Power, the government of that 
army has to decide whether the army is hostile or 
friendly. A hostile army, placed standing upright in 
the province, blocks the province (no production, 
no import, no building of factories, no taxation, no 
rail). A friendly army, however, is laid on its side 
and leads to no constraints. 
If a nation has only one factory left that is not 
occupied by hostile armies (standing upright), the 
province of this factory may not be entered by 
hostile armies. Armies of other nations that enter 
this province are laid down on their sides.
Destroying a factory: A foreign factory may be 
destroyed by three armies if no armies or fleets 
of the defender are (any longer) in the home 
province. The foreign factory and the three armies 
are removed from the game board. Exception: If a 
nation has only one factory left that has not been 
occupied by hostile armies (standing upright), this 
factory cannot be destroyed.
Example of the destruction of a factory:
There is one shipyard in Murmansk, and one 
fleet still lies in this harbor. First, a blue army 
may move from Berlin to Murmansk and battle 
the fleet (both the invading army and the fleet 
are removed). The armies from Rome may go to 
Berlin by rail, then they may move to Murmansk 
along with the army from Berlin. Now three blue 
armies are standing in Murmansk and may 
destroy the factory. In this case, both the three 
armies and the light blue shipyard are removed 
from the game board.
3. Flags 
A nation‘s flag is placed in newly occupied land 
or sea regions that don’t contain foreign military 
units. Home provinces of foreign nations cannot 
be assigned flags.
A flag remains in a region until the region is 
occupied exclusively by another nation. As the 
result of a battle, it may happen that an inactive 
nation winds up occupying the region exclusively; 
in this case the previous flag is removed and 
replaced by a flag of that nation.
If a nation has put all 15 flags on the board, it 
cannot acquire any more tax regions. If this nation 
occupies new regions exclusively, flags of other 
nations are removed without being replaced. As 
soon as one of its 15 flags is available again, the 
nation may place it in this empty region.
Special map conditions:
Canals: The Canals of Panama and Suez allow 
passage by fleets. Thus a fleet from the Caribbean 
Sea may move directly into the North Pacific, or 
from the Mediterranean Sea directly into the 
Indian Ocean and vice versa. But if Colombia 
(for Panama) or North-Africa (for Suez) is marked 
with a flag, the owner of that nation controls the 
passage through the canal and may prevent or 
allow a fleet to move through. Armies may be 
convoyed through canals as well, as long as the 
nation controlling the canal with its flag allows it. 
At the beginning of the game there is no flag, and 
therefore no restriction for using the canal.
Example for using a canal:
The Suez Canal is controlled by the United 
States. If they agree, Europe can move its fleet 
from the Mediterranean Sea into the Indian 
Ocean. If in addition the fleet from Rome enters 
the Mediterranean Sea, Europe could then 
convoy its army from Paris via both fleets to 
Mumbai, for example, in order to occupy the 
Indian shipyard. But again, the convoy of the 

Maneuver - Investor
Investor
This turn is conducted in three steps. Steps 
two and three are also executed when the 
“Investor“ space on the rondel is not landed 
on but is only passed over. In this second case, 
the action determined by the space landed on is 
completed first.
1. Paying out interest
When the Investor action results by the nation 
marker landing on the space, each player who 
has granted bonds to the nation gets paid interest 
by the national treasury. If the treasury does not 
have enough money to pay all interest for its 
bonds, the player who leads the government must 
turn down his own interest, completely or partly, 
and, if necessary, must complete the payment of 
interest to others from his personal cash.
2. Activating the Investor
The player who is holding the Investor card 
(Investor) gets paid 2 million from the bank and 
then may invest in any nation. He may only select 
from the bonds that are available in the nation‘s 
bond repository, and may choose whether to take 
one new bond or increase one existing bond of 
the same nation.
A new additional bond is paid in full to the 
appropriate treasury, and the player takes the 
bond card. If an existing bond is increased, the 
card of the lower value bond is returned to the 
nation‘s bond repository and the new higher 
bond is taken out. The player must pay only the 
difference in value between the two bonds into 
the nation‘s treasury.
A player returns the Chinese 4-million bond 
and takes the Chinese 12-million bond from 
the repository. He pays the difference of 8 
million into the Chinese treasury.
3. Investing as Swiss Bank 
Each player who has a Swiss Bank and does not 
hold the investor card at the same time is also 
allowed to invest once. Investing with the Swiss 
Bank is done in the same way as if the player 
holds an Investor card, but without collecting two 
million from the bank.
If several players have a Swiss Bank, investing is 
done in the order of play (clockwise), starting from 
the player currently with the Investor card.
 
army is only possible if the U.S. agrees to that 
particular movement as well.
The earth is a sphere: The sea 
regions are connected with each 
other from East to West. To the right 
is depicted the left area of the game 
board, showing parts of North and 
South Pacific. The arrows indicate that 
the North Pacific is adjacent to the Sea 
of Japan (SJ), as well as to the China 
Sea (CS). Therefore fleets may move 
from the North Pacific directly to one 
of these two sea regions or vice versa, 
and there are no restrictions on the 
convoying of armies along that route 
as well. Respectively the South Pacific 
is adjacent to the China Sea (CS) and 
the Tasman Sea (TS). However, there 
are no such connections on the map 
from North to South. 
Islands: Only the named 5 islands/archipelagos 
of Japan, Philippines, Indonesia, Australia and 
New Zealand are land regions and can be 
occupied with armies. Other islands, such as 
Madagascar, are simply ignored. The only island 
that can be entered from several sea regions is 
Indonesia: the convoy of armies is possible from 
the Indian Ocean, Tasman Sea, or China Sea. 
No entry: The white polar regions on the Northern 
edge of the game board cannot be entered, nor 
can the neutral territory of Switzerland where the 
banks reside. 

Investor - Taxation
At the end of the Investor turn, a check is made to 
see if there will be any changes of government. In 
this context, the sum of all bonds of a player in the 
pertinent nation will determine the government of 
that nation. If, due to the allocation of bonds, a 
new player has achieved the highest credit sum (a 
tie is not sufficient), he takes over the government 
of that nation and is given the nation flag card. If 
several players achieve the same highest credit 
sum, the player first in seating order, counting 
from the player with the investor card, takes over 
the government. 
If a player does not control any government, he 
gets a Swiss Bank instead. Ownership of a Swiss 
Bank continues as long as the player does not 
control a nation. If he takes over a government 
again, he has to return the Swiss Bank. 
The owner of a Swiss Bank may force nations 
on the rondel not to pass over Investor if its 
government intends to do so. However, this can 
only be done if the treasury of that nation has 
sufficient money to pay out all interest. 
Finally, the Investor card moves clockwise to the 
next player.
Taxation
This turn is conducted in four steps. 
1. Tax revenue 
The national taxes come from two sources:
• 2 million per unoccupied factory 
• 1 million per flag.
A factory is unoccupied when there is no hostile 
army in the home province of the factory. The 
maximum possible tax revenue is 23 million (8 
million from 4 factories plus 15 million from 15 
flags). The tax revenue is paid from the bank into 
the national treasury on the game board.
2. Soldiers‘ pay
The treasury has to pay one million in soldiers’ 
pay for each of its armies and fleets to the bank. 
If the treasury is empty, no more payments are 
made.
3. Success bonus
The government (player) receives a success 
bonus from the treasury. The bonus is shown on 
the middle line of the tax chart: 1 million with at 
least a tax revenue of 6 million, 2 million with 
at least a tax revenue of 10 million etc. If the 
soldiers‘ pay was so high that the treasury does 
not have enough money to pay the bonus, the 
bonus is reduced to what is available - perhaps 
to zero.
4. Adding power points
Based on its tax revenue, the nation gains 
additional power points as shown on the last line 
of the taxation chart (i.e., power point gains are 
independent of soldiers’ pay or success bonuses). 
The newly acquired power points are added to 
the previous point standing on the scoring track 
at the upper edge of the game board.
As soon as a nation has reached a total of 25 
power points, the game ends. If it happens that 
in this last turn of the game the Investor space on 
the rondel was passed over, no more investments 
are executed anymore (i.e. omit steps 2 and 3 of 
the Investor turn).

Taxation
The following variants may be used individually 
or in combination.
Variant: Without investor card
This variation results in fewer changes in the 
control of governments.
Remove the investor card from game. Instead of 
using the investor card, each player can invest 
in a nation immediately after that nation takes 
its turn.
For example:
After China takes its turn, its owner can invest 
in China. Then all the other players can invest in 
China, starting with the player to the left of the 
owner of China and continuing clockwise around 
the table. After that India takes its turn.
In addition to this procedure, players owning a 
Swiss Bank can invest once in any nation they 
wish.
On the rondel space Investor, only the interests 
are paid. Passing through that space no longer 
has any special consequence.
If no bonds were chosen for a nation at the 
beginning of the game, bonds can be chosen for 
this nation directly after the previous nation‘s 
turn. The player controlling the government of 
the previous nation is the first to invest.
Variant: Bonus only for tax increases
This variant is like the rules of “Imperial“.
Players only receive a success bonus if they 
happen to increase the tax revenue of the nation 
they are controlling. The current tax revenue is 
recorded with the third octagonal game stone on 
the middle line of the tax chart. For every field that 
this marker moves to the right, the government 
(player) receives a bonus of 1 million from the 
national treasury. On the other hand, if the tax 
decreases and the marker moves to the left, the 
player does not have to pay anything.
In the situation shown above, the tax revenue of 
China increases to 12 million. The yellow marker 
therefore moves 4 fields to the right, landing on 
the “3“ beneath the “12“. The player controlling 
the Chinese government receives a bonus of 4 
million out of the Chinese treasury.
Variants of Imperial 2030
The United States selects the Taxation space on 
the rondel. 
1. The tax revenue of 11 million (3 factories and 5 
flags) is paid from the bank to the treasury.
2. Because the United States owns two fleets and 
one army, its treasury pays 3 million back to the 
bank.
3. As shown on the tax chart (middle line), the 
bonus to the government is 2 million The player 
leading the U.S. government receives 2 million 
out of the national treasury.
4. The tax chart shows ”+4“ points (bottom line). 
Accordingly, 4 points are added on the scoring 
track for the United States.

FreqUently asked questions (FAQ)
Can factories also be destroyed by fleets?
Fleets cannot destroy a factory since they are 
not allowed to return from a sea region to a land 
region.
When can nations use their military units 
to fight?
There are two possibilities:
1. Nations that have chosen the rondel space 
“Maneuver“ are allowed to fight against foreign 
armies and/or fleets.
2. Inactive nations are allowed to fight against 
any foreign army or fleet that has just moved into 
a region in which the inactive nation has military 
units. This also applies if a “friendly“ army moves 
into a home province.
Can armies and fleets fight against each 
other?
This is only possible if the fleet still lies in the 
harbor and the home province of the harbor 
is entered by a foreign army or the army was 
already there.
Can armies also enter islands?
Only the 5 named islands/archipelagos of Japan, 
Philippines, Indonesia, Australia and New Zealand 
count as land regions which can be entered by 
armies. Others, such as Madagascar, are simply 
ignored. Greenland cannot be entered not only 
because it is not named, but also because it is 
located inside the polar regions.
What does it mean if a rail network is 
suspended?
If, for instance, a hostile Chinese army stands 
in Novosibirsk, then it is not possible to get from 
Moscow or Murmansk to Vladivostok by rail. Even 
entering Novosibirsk by rail is not allowed: If, for 
instance, a Russian army moves from Ukraine to 
Moscow, it can no longer use the rail to fight the 
Chinese in Novosibirsk.
Can flags also be put in provinces of other 
Great Powers?
No. But a hostile occupation of a foreign nation‘s 
home province prevents the foreign nation from 
deploying military units there, levying taxes for a 
factory that is located there, using rail there, or 
building a new factory.
When is a flag removed from the game 
board?
Only if the region is occupied by one other Great 
Power exclusively. That means the flag remains 
if there are military units of several nations there, 
or no military units in the region at all.
Can bonds be given back?
Giving back bonds is allowed only if the respective 
nation is given a new, higher bond at the same 
time.
Can the investor invest twice if he owns a 
Swiss Bank?
No. If a player uses the investor card he may not 
use the Swiss Bank to invest for a second time.
What happens when supplies of a nation 
are all used up?
In this case, no more armies or fleets can be 
deployed and/or no more flags can be placed. 
On the other hand, supplies of the bank are 
considered unlimited (cash, Swiss Banks).
Are players allowed to borrow or receive a 
gift of money?
No. Players are not allowed to borrow, lend or 
receive a gift of money from one another or from 
a treasury or the bank. They are only allowed 
to give money to their treasuries, or during the 
Investor turn to grant bonds as has been defined 
in the rules.
Is making agreements allowed?
Yes, this is not prohibited. For instance, nations 
can make arrangements about influence zones or 
non-aggression pacts; however, there is no game 
rule that forces a nation to stick to the agreement. 
But even if agreements are kept, the situation can 
change suddenly by changes of government.
Which straits can be passed over with 
armies?
Armies may move from Rome to Turkey, and from 
Paris to London (where a rail connection exists). 
Other straits cannot be passed, which is marked 
on the game board by a broken orange line.
If you have additional questions, visit us at: 
www.pd-verlag.de/im

Don‘t forget the power points
Only when a nation builds factories, places flags, 
and in the end plays ”taxation“, can it advance 
with its power points. It may not be possible to 
avoid conflicts with other nations, but nations who 
set up troops and wage war all the time, will not 
be successful in collecting many power points.
Be careful when concentrating on one nation
It may be tempting to grant bonds exclusively 
to the nation in which the player has control, in 
order to stabilize the government and to enable 
the nation to build factories and pay interest. 
But this may be a dangerous strategy, if no 
other investors invest there, and no one else is 
interested in seeing the nation flourish. The nation 
will be attacked sooner than expected.
Take care of your money
Of course it is important to develop the nation in 
which the player has control. But nonetheless 
one should not forget the role of being an investor 
desperately in need of money in order to win the 
game. Entering the Investor space on the rondel 
may slow down the nation, but it usually is the 
most efficient way to get money. 
Use the Swiss Bank 
The Swiss Bank is very useful to get hold of many 
smaller bonds with higher interest rates. And if 
the preconditions are fulfilled, it is mostly a good 
thing to force a nation to stop on Investor and 
pay out interest.
The end of the game may come surprisingly 
fast
Nations who are well developed, owning many 
factories and tax regions, can progress on the 
scoring track very quickly. A nation needs only 3 
factories and 12 tax regions to gather 10 power 
points. Therefore it can easily happen that a 
nation that is behind, suddenly rushes ahead and 
ends the game by reaching 25 points.
How many turns does a game of “Imperial 
2030“ usually take?
A typical game of “Imperial 2030“ takes about 
120 individual turns, i.e. 20 turns per nation. The 
game usually ends after the winning nation has 
entered Taxation four times. However, this does 
not necessarily mean that the player controlling 
that nation wins the game.
Tips on strategy
About the history of Imperial 2030
After “Imperial“ had been published in 2006 and 
became a major success, it came to mind to use 
the game system to create another game. The 
topic of internationally operating investors, who, 
seeking the maximum return on investment, 
exploit the nations for their personal profit, gained 
unexpected currency in the course of the financial 
crisis of 2008. The foreseeable rise of the new 
Great Powers China, India and Brazil prompted 
finally the idea to create a sort of Imperial on a 
world map, set in the future. The geographical 
conditions on a world map are very different 
from those in Europe, because neutral territories 
occupy a much larger space. Along with it, the 
rules were changed a bit and simplified where 
adequate. Creating a game playable on a world 
map requires some adjustments. However, 
the design of certain regions should not be 
misunderstood as a political statement. Imperial 
2030 does not propose the independence of 
Alaska or Quebec, and the right of Israel or 
other independent nations to exist shall not be 
questioned.
Imperial 2030 has been tested and fine-tuned 
with many playgroups. Here in Hamburg, most 
notably Stephan Borowski, Lars Brügging, and 
the playgroups of Rieckhof and Jork have to 
be mentioned. Outside Hamburg my special 
thanks go to the Brettspielbären from Berlin, the 
Heidelbergers in Burg Stahleck, the players from 
Spielportugal, Martin Wallace and Mark Bigney. 
Mark, together with Ralph Anderson, was also 
very helpful in translating the necessary text into 
English. Alexander Jung created the stunning 
artwork, and it was always fun to work together 
with him. Many many other people, who cannot 
all be mentioned by name, contributed to the 
creation of Imperial 2030. Last but not least Peter 
Dörsam is not only a tough playtester, but also 
the publisher - without him, Imperial 2030 would 
not have been possible at all.
My big thanks go to everyone who helped to bring 
this game to life!
Hamburg, October 2009
	 Mac Gerdts

Short Overview: 
Differences in comparison to “Imperial“
Players who are already familiar 
with “Imperial“ can find the main 
differences between “Imperial 2030“ 
and “Imperial“ here:
Bonds: Each nation has an additional 
bond of 30 million on offer, with an 
interest of 9 million (=30%).
Canals: Fleets can use the Panama 
and Suez Canal, and even armies 
may be convoyed through them. If 
nations control Colombia or North 
Africa with a flag, they can prevent 
any other nation from using the 
respective canal (page 10).
Taxation: For each amount of tax 
revenue there is a fixed success 
bonus, which is shown on the tax 
chart (page 12). Therefore the bonus 
does not depend on the increase of 
tax revenue, and it is not necessary 
to mark the current revenue with a 
game piece. In addition, the bonus 
is taken out of the treasury, and not 
taken from the bank. If the treasury is 
short of money, the bonus is reduced 
– perhaps to zero. (page 13: As a 
variant, the rules of “Imperial“ may 
still apply)
Game Board: Nations have only 4 
home provinces each, and cannot 
set up more than 4 factories. On the 
other hand, there are many more 
neutral land and sea regions than 
in “Imperial“. Because the earth is a 
sphere, sea regions at the Western 
and eastern edges of the board are 
adjacent to one another. 
Designations: Where “Imperial“ 
uses tax chips, “Imperial 2030“ uses 
small flags to occupy tax regions. 
While the player who leads a nation 
in “Imperial“ owns the “flag“, in 
“Imperial 2030“ this card is called 
the “nation flag card“.
Rondel: When moving forward more 
than 3 spaces, the payment now 
varies with the Power Factor which 
the nation already has reached on 
the scoring track: pay (1 + factor on 
scoring track) in millions.
Swiss Bank: Any player who does 
not own a government, receives a 
Swiss Bank instead. If a nation tries 
to skip Investor when its treasury has 
sufficient cash to pay out all interests, 
the Swiss Bank can force a nation to 
stop on Investor (page 12).
www.pd-verlag.com
Almanac: It is a good tradition for PD-Games to add a historical booklet 
to every published game. The history of the year 2030 is still to come, but 
you can already read some fictional background information about the year 
2030 here: www.pd-verlag.de/im/almanach