DESCRIPTION
Europe in the age of imperialism. International investors try to achieve the greatest 
influence in Europe. With their bonds, they control the politics of the six imperial 
nations: Austria-Hungary, Italy, France, Great Britain, the German Empire, and 
Russia. The nations erect factories, build fleets, and deploy armies. The investors 
watch as their nations expand, wage wars, levy taxes, and collect the proceeds. Since 
the European nations are under the shifting influence of different investors, new 
strategic alliances and conflicts arise between them again and again!
Each player represents an international investor. Only he who succeeds in increasing 
his capital and gaining influence in the most powerful European nations will win 
the imperial competition.
Imperial is a varied strategy game without the luck of dice or cards. Two to six 
players, from about twelve years and up, take on the role of imperial investors. 
The duration of the game is about two to three hours.
Inhalt
GAMEBOARD................................................................................................................3
GAME MATERIALS.......................................................................................................4
SET-UP..........................................................................................................................4
GAME PLAY .................................................................................................................6
OBJECT OF THE GAME / END OF THE GAME...........................................................6
TREASURIES / START OF THE GAME........................................................................7
SPACES ON THE RONDEL ........................................................................................7
Factory...............................................................................................................7
Production........................................................................................................7
Import..................................................................................................................8
Maneuver...........................................................................................................8
Investor............................................................................................................11
Taxation............................................................................................................12
Tips on strategy...................................................................................................13
About the development of Imperial.............................................................13
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)...............................................................14
Variant without Investor card......................................................................15
New edition rule changes................................................................................15
Version 2010, 3. Edition

GAMEBOARD
There are six Great Powers on the gameboard:
Austria-Hungary, Italy, France, Great Britain, the German Empire and Russia. In the rules following, 
they are called ”nations“. Each Great Power has five home provinces. Land areas outside the Great 
Powers are called ”land regions“.
Land region “Norway“ 
The 15 brown land 
regions are located 
outside the six nations. 
Only armies are allowed 
to enter them.
Province “Moscow“
Each nation consists of 5 home 
provinces with one city each. One 
factory can be built in these provinces, 
either as a shipyard (blue city) or as an 
armament facility (brown city).
Rondel
The six nations 
choose the 
actions that 
make up their 
turns here.
Treasury of Italy
Repository for Italian 
money and bonds.
Scoring Track 
Shows the current power points for the 
six nations (0-25). Above the current 
power points is the Power Factor.
Tax Chart
The tax 
revenue of 
the nations 
is marked 
here.
Sea region 
“Western Mediterranean Sea“
Only fleets are allowed to enter 
the blue sea regions.
Switzerland
The only region that may not be entered 
since the investors reside here.

1. General set-up (see illustration below)
Nation Markers: The high nation marker for each 
nation is placed into the middle of the rondel. The 
low nation markers are placed on the first space 
of the scoring track (“0”) and on the lowest space 
of the tax chart (“2-5”).
Factories: Each nation starts with two factories 
that are placed onto the square cities on the 
gameboard: a brown armaments facility on the 
brown squares and a light blue shipyard on the 
light blue squares. The 18 factories that have not 
yet been built are placed next to the gameboard.
Bonds: The 54 bonds are sorted according 
to their nations in six piles in ascending order 
(lowest value on top). Each pile is placed next to 
the appropriate nation’s treasury.
Bank: The money is sorted and placed next to 
the gameboard as the bank.
SET-UP
GAME MATERIALS
Printed tiles
•	 1 gameboard
•	 54 bond cards of the six nations, called 
”bonds“ below (in denominations of 2, 4, 6, 9, 
12, 16, 20, 25, 30 million)
•	 90 flags in 6 colors (15 per nation)
•	 6 nation flag cards
•	 1 investor card
•	 130 Bank notes (35 x 1 mil., 55 x 2 mil., .
25 x 5 mil., 15 x 10 mil.)
•	 1 instruction booklet
•	 1 quick intro 
•	 1 booklet ”Historical Data on the Six Powers“
Wooden components
•	 48 armies in the six nation colors .
(10 yellow; 6 red; all others 8 each)
•	 48 fleets in the six nation colors.
(6 yellow; 10 red; all others 8 each)
•	 30 factories (15 brown armament facilities 
and 15 light blue shipyards)
•	 6 octagonal high markers in the six nation 
colors (for the rondel)
•	 12 octagonal low markers in the six nation 
colors (one for the scoring track and one for 
the tax chart)
•	 1 turn maker (wooden pawn)

Set-UP 
2. Distributing the bonds 
The starting money and government(s) handed 
out to the players depend on the number of 
players. 
4 to 6 players:
Each player receives 13 million (1 x 5 million, 4 
x 2 million) from the bank.
The 6 nation flag cards are shuffled face down 
and dealt to the players in turn; each player gets 
one nation flag card.
3 players:
Each player receives 24 million (2 x 5 million, 
7 x 2 million) from the bank.
The nation flag cards of Austria-Hungary, Italy, 
and France are shuffled face down and dealt to 
the players in turn; each player gets one nation 
flag card. After that, each player gets one more 
nation flag card:
Great Britain to Austria-Hungary
Russia to Italy
Germany to France
2 players:
Each player receives starting money amounting 
to 35 mil. (3 x 5 mil., 10 x 2 mil.) from the bank.
The nation flag cards of Austria-Hungary and Italy 
are shuffled face down and dealt to the players in 
turn; each player gets one nation flag card. After 
that, each player gets two more nation flag cards:
France and Germany to Austria-Hungary
Russia and Great Britain to Italy
The initial distribution of the bonds is shown on the 
backs of the nation flag cards. Each player takes 
the bonds shown on the back(s) of their card(s) 
from the bond pile and pays the corresponding 
price into the treasury of that nation. When all 
initial bonds are distributed among the players, 
each player will have 2 million remaining – the 
rest will be in the nations’ treasuries.
Each player keeps the nation flag card(s) that 
he has been dealt. This indicates that he has 
given the highest contribution to the nation and 
therefore forms that government.
With four or five players, not all nation flag cards 
are distributed initially. The remaining card(s) 
is/are given in each case to the player(s) who 
own(s) the “2 million” bond of this nation (since 
they have the highest credit sum). If none of a 
nation’s bonds have been distributed, its nation 
flag card remains in the bank for the moment.
Variant for experienced players
This variant for bond distribution increases 
the strategic possibilities and is therefore 
recommended for experienced players.
Each player gets the following starting money 
from the bank:
•	 With six players, 15 mil.
•	 With five players, 18 mil.
•	 With four players, 22 mil.
•	 With three players, 28 mil.
•	 With two players, 40 mil. 
Determined by lot, one of the players is the first 
who is allowed to grant a bond of his choice to 
Austria-Hungary. If he decides to do that, he 
chooses one Austro-Hungarian bond from the 
bond pile and pays its amount into the Austro-
Hungarian treasury that is on the gameboard. 
After him, all other players are allowed to grant 
one Austro-Hungarian bond in clockwise rotation, 
and in that case pay its amount into the Austro-
Hungarian treasury on the game board.
After Austria-Hungary, bonds are given to Italy. 
The player who is sitting to the left of the starting 
player is the first one allowed to choose an Italian 
bond. After that, all other players in clockwise 
fashion are allowed to grant any available Italian 
bond (one per player).
Then bonds are given in turn to France, Great 
Britain, Germany, and Russia in the same way. 
The price of the bond chosen must be paid into 
the respective treasury. Finally each player who 
does not form a nation’s government receives a 
Swiss Bank instead.
After every player had the opportunity to grant 
bonds to every nation, the game can start.

GAME PLAY 
OBJECT OF THE GAME / END OF THE GAME
The six imperial Great Powers (nations) operate 
on the gameboard. The players are investors 
who grant bonds to these nations. The player 
who has granted the highest credit amount to 
a nation controls the government of that nation 
and decides the actions on the gameboard. This 
player is referred to as, in short, ”the government 
of the nation“.
Regardless of the number of players, all six Great 
Powers (nations) take part in every game.
Selecting a space on the rondel
The move of a nation consists of choosing a 
space on the rondel. In a nation‘s first turn, the 
game piece is placed on any space of the rondel. 
All following turns are chosen on the rondel by 
moving the game piece clockwise; remaining in 
place is not allowed. The playing piece may be 
moved to one of the three spaces ahead at no 
cost; each additional space costs the player who 
leads the government of that nation 2 million, paid 
to the bank. The maximum move on the rondel 
is six spaces.
Italy is standing on the ”Investor“ space on the 
rondel. In order to choose ”Taxation“ on the 
next turn, Italy must move forward four spaces; 
the Italian government (player with the flag) 
must pay 2 million to the bank accordingly. In 
order to move from ”Investor“ to ”Factory“, the 
government would have to pay 4 million to the 
bank, etc.
According to their economic power (factories) 
and their military strength (occupied sea and land 
regions), the nations collect power points in the 
course of the game. The points are added on the 
scoring track. As soon as a nation has reached 
25 power points, the game ends.
A player’s final score is the interest of their 
bonds multiplied by nations’ Power Factors on 
the scoring track, plus cash on hand.
France has 17 power points; the counting bar 
reads factor “3”. The French bond on 12 mil. 
generates an interest of 5 mil., resulting in the 
following value:
5 mil. x 3 = 15 mil.
The players add up the values of all their bonds 
and, after that, add all their cash. Each million 
equals one victory point. The player with the most 
victory points wins the game.
In case of a tie, the player who has the higher 
credit sum in the nation with the most power 
points wins. If there is still a tie, the credit sums 
in the nation with the second most power points 
are compared, and so on.

The function of the spaces on the rondel is 
explained in the following passages.
Factory
The nation is allowed to build one new factory. 
Armaments facilities may be built only in brown 
cities whereas shipyards may be built only in light 
blue cities. A factory may be built only in one 
of the nation’s own cities if there are no hostile 
armies (standing upright) in its home province. 
Only one factory may be built in each city.
The nation pays 5 mil. into the bank and the 
chosen factory is placed on the gameboard in 
the appropriate city.
Germany has factories in Berlin and Hamburg. 
There is a French army in Cologne. Therefore, 
a factory can be built only in Munich or Danzig. 
That means that on the rondel ”Factory“ space, 
Germany may build either a shipyard in Danzig 
(light blue) or an armaments facility in Munich 
(brown). To do that, 5 million must be paid from 
the treasury to the bank
Production
Each armaments facility and shipyard of a nation 
may produce one army or one fleet respectively 
for free. Factories in a home province in which 
hostile armies (standing upright) are present 
cannot produce. Nor can the occupying force 
itself produce in an occupied foreign factory. 
The new armies and fleets are placed on the 
gameboard in the home province of their factory. 
In this context, it is unimportant how many military 
units are already present in that region.
Germany 
owns 
factories in Berlin, 
Hamburg 
and 
Munich. There is 
a hostile Russian 
army 
(standing 
upright) in Berlin, 
and 
a 
friendly 
French 
army 
(lying) in Munich. 
When 
on 
the 
rondel ”Production“ space, Germany can place 
a fleet in Hamburg and an army in Munich.
Separate capital
The treasury of the six imperial nations and the 
individual cash of the players have to be kept 
strictly separate. The players hold the treasuries 
they control in trust. They are not allowed to 
dispose of the treasuries personally nor lend or 
give away money from the treasury. However, 
they are allowed to give personal cash to 
the treasury at any time in order to support it 
financially.
Each player may check the contents of all 
treasuries anytime for control purposes, but he 
may keep his own, personal cash secret from 
the other players.
Players are not allowed to lend or give money 
away to one other. They are also not allowed to 
trade bonds among each other or to relinquish 
them in any other way.
Start of play
Austria-Hungary begins the game; after that, 
the nations move clockwise according to the 
order of their national deposits on the edge of 
the gameboard (1. Austria-Hungary, 2. Italy, 
3.  France, 4. Great Britain, 5. the German 
Empire and 6. Russia). The turn marker is used 
in each case to identify which nation‘s turn it is.
In case a nation has not been granted a bond, it 
has no government yet. In this case, the move 
of this nation is skipped.
At the start of the game, the investor card goes 
to the player seated to the left of the player who 
controls Austria-Hungary. If there is none, the 
investor card goes to the player to the left of the 
player who controls Italy. 
TREASURIES / START OF THE GAME
SPACES ON THE RONDEL 

Import
The nation may buy military units for 1 million 
each from the bank. The number of military units, 
however, is limited to three in total. The military 
units may be placed in all home provinces that 
do not have hostile armies (standing upright); 
fleets, however, may be placed only in light blue 
seaports. Deploying several military units in the 
same home province at the same time is allowed.
Austria-Hungary imports two fleets and one 
army, paying 3 million from its treasury into the 
bank. All three military units are established 
in Triest. It would also have been possible to 
deploy the army in one of the other four Austro-
Hungarian home provinces.
Maneuver 
This turn is conducted in three steps. First the fleets 
are moved, then the armies, and finally flags are 
placed in newly occupied regions.
1. Fleets 
All fleets of a nation are allowed to move to an 
adjacent sea region (to cross a blue sea border). 
After their production or their import, fleets lie 
in the harbor; consequently, their first move is 
always to the sea region that is adjacent to the 
harbor (this region is additionally marked by an 
anchor). Once fleets are at sea, they cannot 
return to land.
The fleet from the English Channel can either 
move into the North Atlantic, the Bay of Biscay, 
or into the North Sea. The fleet lying in the 
harbor of London can only move into the English 
Channel (anchor) and the fleet lying in the harbor 
of Dublin can only move into the North Atlantic. 
As an alternative, any fleet may stay where it is.
If a fleet moves to a sea region in which fleets 
of other nations are present, it turns into a 
battle if at least one side wants it. In a battle the 
fleets are matched 1:1 and removed from the 
gameboard. The government of the invading fleet 
may choose, if need be, which of the fleets in the 
region it wants to match. If fleets already in the 
sea region want a battle, it has to be declared 
directly after the other fleets have moved in. If 
none of the parties wants a conflict, they keep 
peacefully lying next to each other in the same 
sea region. Fleets of the active nation that do not 
move can also battle fleets of other nations that 
are in the same sea region.
Example of a fleet battle:
If the purple fleet moves to the left Sea, Purple 
can decide whether the fleet should fight. If it 
does so, Purple can also decide whether the 
purple fleet fights against the green or the yellow 
fleet. If Purple does not want to do battle, the 
purple fleet moves to the left Sea and Purple 
asks the other governments if they want to 
fight. The order in which the other governments 
are asked is decided upon by the purple fleet. 
If no one wants to fight, all three fleets remain 
peacefully side by side in the Ionian Sea.
IMPORT - MANeuver

2. Armies 
All armies of a nation are allowed to move to 
an adjacent land region (except for Switzerland). 
Alternatively, they can also be transported 
overseas via their own fleets (convoy). In doing 
so, they may cross one or more adjacent sea 
regions provided the nation already has a fleet 
in that region. Each fleet may transport only one 
army per turn.
A sea transport is only possible if an army is in 
a land region that is adjacent to a sea region, 
or reaches this region by railroad (see next 
paragraph). After doing the convoy, the army is 
in a land region again.
Example of sea transport (see picture above):
There are two yellow armies In Triest. Via 
ship, one of the armies can land in Algeria. In 
this case, however, the second army cannot 
be transported any more over the western 
Mediterranean Sea since the ship in the western 
Mediterranean Sea has already been used by 
the first army. But the second army can land in 
Tunis, for example, since there is another ship in 
the Ionian Sea that has not yet transported any 
army; and Tunis is also adjacent to the Ionian 
Sea. 
 Railroad transport: Each nation has a railroad 
network that exists between the home provinces 
and ends at its own national borders. If hostile 
armies (standing upright) are present in a home 
province, the railroad network in this home 
province is suspended. Before or after they 
move, armies may be transported by railroad 
within the country at will.
Example of a railroad transport:
The Dutch army (see illustration to the right) 
cannot get to Denmark, Sweden or Norway. A 
direct sea transport is not possible since there 
is no German fleet in the adjacent sea regions. 
The army can move to Hamburg; then it can 
get to each other German home 
province. But its ”Maneuver“ 
turn is done, and it can neither 
leave Germany over a land 
border nor move to another land 
region by means of the fleet in 
the Baltic Sea.
The German army in Cologne 
can get to Hamburg by railroad 
and then take its ”Maneuver“ 
turn, either directly to Denmark 
or by means of the fleet in the 
Baltic Sea to Denmark, Sweden 
or Norway.
MANeuver

Battles: The battle between 
armies is conducted in the 
same way as the battle 
between fleets, i.e., the 
active nation may match 
armies in land regions 
1:1. Armies 
of 
foreign 
nations can call for a battle 
if their land region has 
been invaded. Fleets and 
armies can battle against 
each other only if the fleet 
is still in the harbor. In this 
case, an invading army can 
attack the fleet or the fleet 
can call for a battle.
Entering provinces of other Great Powers: 
If an army moves into the home province of 
another Great Power, the government of that 
army has to decide if the intentions are hostile 
or friendly. A hostile army, placed standing 
upright in the province, blocks the province (no 
production, no import, no building of factories, no 
taxation). A friendly army, however, is laid on its 
side; it leads to no constraints. During the next 
maneuver turn of the nation, the status of the 
armies can be changed, even without moving 
them into another province. Also in the case of 
such a status change, armies of other nations in 
the province can call for a match.
If a nation has only one factory left that is not 
occupied by hostile armies (standing upright), the 
province of this factory may not be entered by 
hostile armies. Armies of other nations that enter 
this province are laid on their sides.
Destruction: A foreign factory may be destroyed 
by three armies if no armies (fleets) of the 
defender are (any longer) in the home province. 
The foreign factories and the three armies are 
removed from the gameboard. Exception: If a 
nation has only one factory left that has not been 
occupied by hostile armies (standing upright), this 
factory cannot be destroyed.
Example of the destruction of a factory:
There is one shipyard in Venice, and one fleet 
still lies in the harbor of Venice. First, a yellow 
army may move from Vienna to Venice and 
battle the fleet. The armies from Budapest may 
go to Vienna by railroad, then they may move to 
Venice along with the army from Vienna. Now 
three yellow armies are standing in Venice and 
may destroy the factory. In this case, the three 
armies and the light blue shipyard are removed 
from the gameboard.
3. Flags 
A nation‘s flag is placed in newly occupied land 
or sea regions that don’t contain foreign military 
units. Home provinces of foreign nations cannot 
be assigned flags.
A flag remains in a region until the region is 
occupied exclusively by another nation. As the 
result of a battle, it may happen that an inactive 
nation winds up occupying the region exclusively; 
in this case the previous flag is removed and 
replaced by a flag of that nation.
MANeuver

3. Investing as Swiss Bank 
Each player who has a Swiss Bank and does not 
hold the investor card at the same time is also 
allowed to invest once. Investing with the Swiss 
Bank is done in the same way as if the player 
holds an Investor card, but without collecting two 
million from the bank.
If several players have a Swiss Bank, investing 
is done in the order of play (clockwise), starting 
from the player currently with the Investor card.
 
At the end of the Investor turn, a check is made to 
see if there will be any changes of government. In 
this context, the sum of all bonds of a player in the 
pertinent nation will determine the government 
of that nation. If, due to the allocation of bonds, 
a new player has achieved the highest credit 
sum (a tie is not sufficient), he takes over the 
government of that nation and is given the nation 
flag card. If several players achieve the same 
highest credit sum, the player first in seating 
order, counting from the player with the investor 
card, takes over the government. 
If a player does not control any government, 
he gets a Swiss Bank instead. Ownership of a 
Swiss Bank continues as long as the player does 
not control a nation. 
If he takes over a 
government again, he 
has to return the Swiss 
Bank. 
The owner of a Swiss 
Bank may force nations 
on the rondel not to 
pass over Investor if 
its government intends 
to do so. However, this can only be done if the 
treasury of that nation has sufficient money to 
pay out all interest. 
Finally, the Investor card moves clockwise to the 
next player.
INVESTOR
+
Swiss Bank
Investor
This turn is conducted in three steps. Steps two 
and three are executed when the „Investor“ 
space on the rondel is not landed on but is 
only passed through. In this case, the action 
determined by the space landed on is completed 
first.
1. Paying out interest
Each player who granted bonds to a nation gets 
its interest paid by the treasury. If the treasury 
does not have enough money to pay all interest 
of its bonds, the player who leads the government 
must turn down his own interest, completely 
or partly, and, if necessary, must take on the 
payment of interest to others from his personal 
cash.
2. Activating the Investor
The player who is holding the Investor card 
(Investor) gets paid 2 million from the bank and 
then may invest in any nation. He may only select 
from the bonds that are available in the nation‘s 
bond repository, and may choose whether to take 
a new bond or increase an existing bond of the 
same nation.
An additional bond is paid in total to the 
appropriate treasury, and the player takes the 
bond card. This way, he may own even several 
bonds of the same nation. If an existing bond is 
increased, the card of the bond is sorted into the 
pile of the nation‘s bond cards, the new bond 
card is taken from the repository, and only the 
difference between the two bonds is paid into 
the treasury.
A player takes the Italian 12-million bond and 
puts the Italian 4-million bond back into the pile. 
He pays the difference of 8 million into the Italian 
treasury.
Kingdom
of Italy
4,000,000
, Four Imperial Million .
2,000,000 (50%) 
Kingdom
of Italy
12,000,000
, Twelve Imperial Million .
5,000,000 (42%) 
⇔

This turn is conducted in three steps. 
1. Tax revenue / Success bonus
The national taxes are comprised of two 
components:
•	 2 mil. per unoccupied factory 
•	 1 mil. per flag.
A factory is unoccupied when 
there is no hostile army in the 
home province of the factory. The 
maximum possible tax revenue is 
25 mil. (10 mil. from 5 factories 
plus 15. mil. from 15 flags).
The taxation is completed, then 
recorded on the tax chart by 
means of the game piece. If the 
taxes are 5 mil. or less, the game 
piece is put on the lowest space 
of the tax chart (“2-5”); if the tax 
is 15 mil. or more, the game piece 
is put on the highest space of the 
tax chart (“15+”).
For any increase on the tax chart, 
compared to the previous level, 
the government (player) is paid a 
success bonus from the bank. The 
bonus is 1 mil. for each additional 
space. If the taxes are constant or 
decreasing, no bonus is paid out; 
however, the owner of the flag does 
not have to pay anything.
2. Adding power points
According to its tax revenue, the 
nation 
gains 
additional 
power 
points as shown on the right side 
of the taxation chart. The newly 
acquired power points are added to 
the previous point standing on the 
scoring track at the bottom edge of 
the gameboard.
As soon as a nation has reached a 
total of 25 power points, the game ends. If during 
the move to the „Taxation“ space the Investor 
space has been passed through, part 2 and 3 of 
the Investor move are not conducted any more. 
3. Collecting money
When landing on the ”Taxation“ space on the 
rondel, the nation has to pay 1 mil. soldiers’ pay to 
each of its armies and fleets. One million for each 
army and fleet of the nation is subtracted from the 
tax revenue. Only the remaining amount is paid 
from the bank into the treasury on the gameboard. 
If the amount is negative, no payment is made.
The German game pieces stand at 6 (mil.) on 
the tax chart and at 1 on the scoring track. The 
illustration shows the German situation:
The German Empire selects the ”Taxation“ space 
on the rondel.
1. The tax revenue is 7 mil. (2 factories and 3 
flags). So the tax marker moves up from 6 (mil.) 
to 7 (mil.). Since the tax marker has moved up 
one space, the German government (the player 
with the German nation flag card) gets 1 mil. 
paid from the bank as a success bonus.
2. The tax chart shows ”+2“ points. Accordingly, 2 
points are added on the scoring track, and the 
German marker is moved from ”1“ to ”3“.
3. The German Empire has two armies and one 
fleet. So 4 mil. (7 mil. tax revenue minus 3 mil. 
soldiers‘ pay) is paid from the bank into the 
German treasury.

Don‘t forget the power points
Only when a nation builds factories, places flags, 
and in the end plays ”taxation“, can it advance 
with its power points. It may not be possible to 
avoid conflicts with other nations, but nations who 
set up troops and wage war all the time, will not 
be successful in collecting many power points.
Be careful when concentrating on one nation
It may be tempting to grant bonds exclusively 
to the nation in which the player has control, in 
order to stabilize the government and to enable 
the nation to build factories and pay interest. 
But this may be a dangerous strategy, if no 
other investors invest there, and no one else is 
interested in seeing the nation flourish. The nation 
will be attacked sooner than expected.
Take care of your money
Of course it is important to develop the nation in 
which the player has control. But nonetheless 
one should not forget the role of being an investor 
desperately in need of money in order to win the 
game. Entering the Investor space on the rondel 
may slow down the nation, but it usually is the 
most efficient way to get money. 
Use the Swiss Bank 
The Swiss Bank is very useful to get hold of many 
smaller bonds with higher interest rates. And if 
the preconditions are fulfilled, it is mostly a good 
thing to force a nation to stop on Investor and 
pay out interest.
The end of the game may come surprisingly 
fast
Nations who are well developed, owning many 
factories and tax regions, can progress on the 
scoring track very quickly. A nation needs only 
4 factories and 7 tax regions to gather 10 power 
points. Therefore it can easily happen that a 
nation that is behind, suddenly rushes ahead and 
ends the game by reaching 25 points.
How many turns does a game of “Imperial“ 
usually take?
A typical game of “Imperial“ takes about 120 
individual turns, i.e. 20 turns per nation. The 
game usually ends after the winning nation has 
entered Taxation four times. However, this does 
not necessarily mean that the player controlling 
that nation wins the game.
Tips on strategy
About the development of Imperial
Dating back to the eighties, Imperial could be 
played only in private circles, because only a few 
handmade copies existed.
The old version developed in terms of the 
playtime, complexity and game flow, in order to 
suit the requirements for publishing. This was a 
challenge which could only be met by devoting 
considerable time and energy to many test 
rounds. All the time new ideas that emerged had 
to be discussed and tested intensely, and many 
were often rejected. But the basic structure of 
Imperial remained unchanged:
The six imperial powers in Europe before WWI 
who compete with their economies and armies 
are controlled by the changing influence of 
different players.
Most test rounds took place in the cultural center 
”Rieckhof“ in Hamburg. Also the ”Hamburg 
Meeting of Game Designers“, which takes place 
on a regular basis, was very important for us. Even 
in the United States and in Australia test rounds 
were conducted; therefore, very special thanks 
go to Peter Hawes and Ralph Anderson who 
contributed wholeheartedly to the development 
of the game and had many constructive ideas.
Without Peter Eggert, who was rapidly infected 
with enthusiasm, without Peter Dörsam, who 
contributed to the success with his deep game 
analysis and his publication house PD-Verlag , 
without Matthias Catrein, who showed the best 
of his graphic talents, and last but not least, 
without the many other players and helpers who 
all cannot be mentioned here, the publication of 
Imperial would not have been possible. I thank 
my wife Kathia, who was pregnant at the time, for 
her everlasting patience and assistance.
May your imperial investor‘s intrigues be 
successful!
Hamburg, September 2006 Mac Gerdts
Thanks to Carlton Dempfle for the translation of 
the booklet ”Historical Data on the Six Powers“ 
into English. 

Can factories also be destroyed by fleets?
Fleets cannot destroy a factory since they are 
not allowed to return from a sea region to a land 
region.
When can nations use their military units 
to fight?
There are two possibilities:
1. Nations that have chosen the rondel space 
„Maneuver“ are allowed to fight against foreign 
armies and/or fleets anytime.
2. Inactive nations are allowed to fight against 
any foreign army or fleet that has just moved into 
a region in which the inactive nation has military 
units. This also applies if a „friendly“ army moves 
into a home province or if an army changes its 
status from „friendly“ to „hostile“.
Can armies and fleets fight against each 
other?
This is only possible if the fleet still lies in the 
harbor and the home province of the harbor is 
entered by an army or the army is already there.
Can armies also enter islands?
No. The islands on the gameboard (such as 
Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica, Crete) are not named 
and do not count as independent regions. Only 
the province of „Dublin“ (Ireland) can be entered 
by armies.
What straits can be crossed by armies?
Armies can move from Bulgaria to Turkey. 
However, it is not possible to move armies from 
Sweden to Denmark nor from Spain to Morocco. 
To do so, armies need a fleet convoy.
What does it mean if a railroad network is 
suspended?
If, for instance, a hostile Russian army stands in 
Berlin, then it is not possible to get from Hamburg, 
Cologne or Munich to Danzig by railroad.
Can bonds be given back?
The giving back of bonds is allowed only if the 
respective nation is given a new, higher bond at 
the same time.
Are players allowed to borrow or receive a 
gift of money?
No. Players are not allowed to borrow, lend or 
receive a gift of money from one another or from 
a treasury or the bank. They are only allowed 
to give money to the treasuries, or during the 
Investor turn to grant bonds that have been 
defined exactly.
Is making agreements allowed?
Yes, this is not prohibited. For instance, nations 
can make arrangements about influence zones or 
non-aggression pacts; however, there is no game 
rule that forces a player to stick to the agreement. 
But even if agreements are kept, the situation 
can change suddenly by changes of government.
Can the investor invest twice if he does not 
lead any government?
No. It is not possible to use the investor card and 
at the same time invest for a second time because 
the investor player leads no government.
Can flags also be put in provinces of other 
Great Powers?
No. A hostile occupation of a foreign nation‘s 
home province prevents the foreign nation from 
deploying military units there, levying taxes for 
a factory that is located there, or building a new 
factory.
When is a flag removed from the 
gameboard?
Only if the region is occupied by one other Great 
Power exclusively. That means the flag remains 
if there are military units of several nations there 
or no military units in the region any more.
What happens when supplies of a nation 
are all used up?
In this case, no more armies or fleets can be 
deployed.
Is there a railroad connection from Great 
Britain to Ireland?
No. Armies cannot move to the province of 
„Dublin“ by railroad.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

 www.pd-games.com
Imperial 2030: In 2030 the old powers USA, Europe, 
and Russia compete with the 
rising world powers China, 
India, and Brazil. This is a new 
imperial challenge with more 
neutral regions to control and 
some rules tweaks. 
Antike: Ancient nations compete in developing their 
civilizations. Enlarge your 
kingdom, sail the seas, build 
new temples and advance 
your technology in order to 
gain the favor of well known 
ancient personages.
Navegador: In the Golden Age of Exploration players 
take part to build the Portuguese Colonial Empire, 
stretching from Brazil to Nagasaki. Explore the seas, 
found colonies, and build shipyards, factories, and 
churches to get the win. 
PD-Games has the following strategy games on offer (2010):
Hamburgum: Hamburg in the 17th century. Mighty 
walls protect the city against the devastations of the 
30 Years’ War. As a merchant you will become rich, 
but ultimately you have to give donations to build the 
6 great churches of Hamburg.
Antverpia: An 
expansion 
to Hamburgum, played on 
historical maps of Hamburg 
and Antwerp.
The Princes of Machu Picchu: Only 
a small number of princes managed 
to flee from the Spaniards to the 
mountains of Machu Picchu. Here they 
need all their priests and virgins to gain 
the help of the Sun God Tayta Inti. 
This variation results in fewer changes in the 
ownership of governments.
Remove investor card from game. Instead of 
using the investor card, each player can invest 
in a nation immediately after that nation takes 
its turn.
For example:
After Italy takes its turn, its owner can invest in 
Italy. Then all the other players can invest in Italy, 
starting with the player to the left of the owner of 
Italy and going clockwise around the table. After 
that France takes its turn.
Variant without Investor card
In addition to this procedure, players not owning 
governments can invest in any nation they wish, 
at any time.
On the rondel playing field “Investor,“ only the 
interests are paid. Passing through that field no 
longer has any special consequence.
If in the beginning no bond has been given yet 
by a nation, bonds can be granted to this nation 
directly after the previous nation‘s turn. The 
government of the previous nation is the first to 
invest.
Swiss Bank
This new edition introduces the Swiss Bank. 
Players who do not control any government get 
a Swiss Bank instead. In addition to additional 
chances to invest (as before), this also gives the 
right to prevent other nations from passing over 
the Investor space on the rondel if the nation’s 
treasury contains sufficient cash for all payouts.
Bonds
Each nation has an additional bond of 30 million 
(interest 9 million) available. Now it takes longer 
for all bonds of a nation to be sold out. 
Flags
Tax regions are marked with a flag (there are 15 
flags per nation instead of 10 chips).
Starting distribution of bonds
Each player starts with two bonds of 9 and 2 
million, and 2 million cash as additional starting 
money. Now it takes longer for a change of 
government to be possible. The special rule of 
the second edition (which required paying an 
additional 1 million when taking over the last 
government before it had taxed) is no longer 
applied. The variant for experienced players 
remains unchanged.
New edition rule changes

règles française, 
regole italiano,
reglas español ...
www.pd-games.com/imperial
The markers representing the nations are moved clockwise around 
the rondel. (Moving 1-3 fields costs nothing; for each additional 
field, the government [player] pays 2 million to the bank, 
moving a maximum of 6 fields). 
Factory
Nation→Bank
A factory may be built for 5 million. 
(brown city = armaments facility; light blue city = shipyard)
Production
Each unoccupied factory produces an army or a fleet, respectively. 
Placement: In the province of the factory (the fleet in the harbor).
Import
Nation→Bank
The nation may buy a maximum of 3 new military units for 1 million 
each. Placement: Anywhere within the home provinces. 
Maneuver
1. Fleets are allowed to move to an adjacent sea region. Battles: 1:1
2. Armies may move to an adjacent land region or, via fleets, to 
another land region (1 army per fleet); additionally, before or 
after each such movement, armies can travel by railroad between 
home provinces. 3 armies may destroyed a factory. Battles: 1:1
3. Flags are placed in newly occupied sea & land regions containing 
no foreign military units (not in any home provinces).
Investor
Nation→Player
Bank→Player
Player→Nation
Parts 2 & 3 are also executed when passing through the investor field.
1. The interest is paid out to the players holding the nation‘s bonds. 
The government must ensure that all interest is paid. 
2. The player with the Investor card gets 2 million from the bank 
and may take out 1 bond or increase 1 existing bond (pay money 
to the nation). After that, the Investor card moves clockwise to 
the next player.
3. Other players who own a Swiss Bank may invest as well.
Bank→Player
Bank→Nation
1. The tax (2 million per unoccupied factory & 1 million per flag) is 
recorded on the tax chart; if the chart position has increased, the 
government (player) gets the increase as a dividend from the bank. 
2. Add the power points (on the right side of the tax chart) on the 
scoring track.
3. Collect the tax minus soldiers’ pay (1 million per army/fleet).
End of game: 
As soon as a nation accumulates 25 power points.
Victory points: interest of bonds x factor of the nations (0-5) + individual cash.