Imperium
Horizons
A Game by 
Nigel Buckle and D vid Turczi
Illustrated by 
Mihajlo ‘the Mico’ Dimitrievski
Rulebook

Game Design: Nigel Buckle and Dávid Turczi
Game Development: Neo Teng Whay and Anthony Howgego
Rules editing: Dávid Turczi and Simon Strange 
Testing engineer: Mark Hutchinson
Lead testers: Mark Hutchinson, Noralie Lubbers, Joshua Potter, Jace Ravensburg, 
Simon Strange, Neo Teng Whay
Additional testing: Laurens van der Beek, Rafael Bertolini, Fiona Buckle, Martin 
Butcher, Chuck Case, Rob Frasca, Kacper Frydrykiewicz, Duy Huynh, Frank de Jong, 
Calpurnio Pison, Moritz Schönherr, Luis Serrano, Marco Teti, Pieter Jan Tiersma, Lars 
Toft, Ádám Turczi, István Turczi, Andrew Wilkins, Timothy Wilkins, Trix Wilkins, 
Abigail Wilkins, Bryson Yuzyk, Carl Zee
Blind testing: Ammon Anderson, Hendri Adriaens, Daren Baldock, 
Bonnie Beyea, Devlin Hutchins
Historical and Cultural Consultants: Zain Alam, Christienne L. Hinz 
Ph.D., Jason Perez, Liam Stevens, Jonathan Truitt Ph.D., Philip Wood, Zsombor Zeöld
First published in Great Britain in 2024 by OSPREY GAMES
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Kemp House, Chawley Park, Cumnor Hill, Oxford OX2 9PH, UK
29 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, Ireland
1385 Broadway, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10018, USA
OSPREY GAMES is a trademark of Osprey Publishing Ltd
© Nigel Buckle and Dávid Turczi, 2024. This edition © 2024 Osprey Publishing Ltd
All rights reserved.
www.ospreygames.co.uk
For more information or replacement parts, email info@ospreygames.co.uk
24  25  26  27 28   10  9  8  7  6  5  4  3  2  1

Contents
Introduction........... 4
Using this Rulebook. 5
FOR OWNERS OF IMPERIUM: CLASSICS 
AND IMPERIUM: LEGENDS........................5
REPLACEMENT CARDS..............................5
Core Concepts......... 6
CONCEPT 1: DECK CYCLING.....................6
CONCEPT 2: RESOURCES.........................6
CONCEPT 3: ACTIONS AND EXHAUSTS....6
CONCEPT 4: GAINING NEW CARDS.........6
CONCEPT 5: FAME AND GLORY................6
Components.............. 7
CARD ELEMENT BREAKDOWN..................9
Setup....................... 10
PLAYER SETUP........................................ 10
COMMONS SETUP................................... 12
Flow of Play........... 14
THE ‘ACTIVATE’ TURN............................. 14
TAKING ACTIONS.............................. 14
RESOLVING AND 
INTERPRETING CARD TEXT.............. 14
USING EXHAUST ABILITIES.............. 15
THE ‘INNOVATE’ TURN............................ 15
THE ‘REVOLT’ TURN................................ 15
CLEAN-UP............................................... 15
RESHUFFLING YOUR DRAW DECK.......... 16
SOLSTICE................................................ 16
Game End................. 17
SCORING................................................. 17
COLLAPSE............................................... 17
THE FAME DECK...................................... 17
Example Turn.......... 18
Optional Rules & 
Gameplay Variants. 24
PRACTICE MODE (SOLO)........................24
LOWERED AGGRESSION VARIANT..........24
QUICK SETUP VARIANT..........................24
PRECIOUS CARDS VARIANT...................24
SHORT VARIANT......................................25
TRADE ROUTES EXPANSION...................26
Solo Ruleset.......... 28
SETUP......................................................29
HOW TO PLAY.........................................29
CHANGES TO GAMEPLAY 
DURING SOLO PLAY................................30
GAME END...............................................32
DIFFICULTY LEVELS................................32
CAMPAIGN MODE....................................33
EXAMPLE BOT TURN...............................34
Keywords................36
CARD-SPECIFIC NOTES......................... 40
Nation 
Descriptions........... 41
Rules to remember. 49
Campaign Logs........ 50
Solo Mode Trade 
Route Tables.......... 52

Introduction
Formidable adversaries are arrayed against you.
Opportunities waiting to be uncovered.
Your people stand ready. History beckons.
Welcome to Imperium: Horizons. In your hands lies the destiny of one of the 
most storied peoples of history. As new opportunities open up, you must explore 
new lands, preside over dramatic scientific and cultural advances, and lead your 
people to become a cultural force. Expand too rapidly and unrest will bring your 
civilisation to its knees; build up too slowly and you might find yourself a mere 
footnote in the annals of history.
historical note
Imperium is a game that is based heavily in the history of peoples 
from all across the world in the time period 3000 BCE – 1000 
CE. Historical accuracy has been a core value throughout 
development of this game, but the very mechanic of deck-building 
is inherently abstract, and the notion of a linear and inexorable 
rise of nations into empires is a knowing misrepresentation of 
actual events. 
The original Imperium (Classics and Legends) games 
used identical Barbarian/Empire State cards for all nations. 
In Horizons, we introduce a number of new nations who, for a 
variety of thematic and historical reasons, fit even less into that 
overly simplistic paradigm than the ones before. However, in 
order to maintain mechanical and rules compatibility between all 
versions of the game, we have continued to use the original blue 
and red symbols, even when the words ‘Empire’ and ‘Barbarian’ 
would not correspond to the historical context depicted.
It is our hope that all versions of Imperium help to spark 
interest in the ancient world, and the peoples who lived in it. 
It is mechanically useful for a card game to make sweeping 
generalisations with words like ‘Barbarian’, ‘Civilised’, ‘Nation’ 
or ‘Advance’ – but real history is much more nuanced and 
complicated, and our game terms are most certainly never 
meant to pass judgement on others. Where possible we have 
used names, places, people, and thematic elements lifted directly 
from historical records – but every deck in this game falls well 
short of capturing the richness and complexity of real people 
and real history. So, if the themes and references in Imperium 
interest you, we highly encourage you to pursue that interest in 
other forms outside of the game!
Theme & Mechanics
Playing Imperium is meant to parallel the way in which leaders – despite being 
powerful and in charge – are constantly forced to deal with shifting challenges 
and opportunities. You can’t simply harvest when it’s convenient – you need 
to wait for the proper season. You can’t simply invent something on demand – 
you must wait until your thinkers have the idea. You can’t meet new people or 
explore new lands until those opportunities arise – and you might be competing 
with other nations for them. These themes are represented both by the effects 
of the cards and by where they are played.
In Imperium, the cards available to you in your nation’s deck represent your 
current civilisation state. Your nation’s higher-powered cards, which you slowly 
unlock through the game, represent your potential in the future.
The internal disorder in your civilisation and opposition to the current 
leadership are represented by Unrest 
 cards that have no function and clog 
up your deck during the game. One way they are added to your deck is through 
adding new cards from the Market, as change and new ideas always result 
in some resistance which you must deal with. In other cases, Unrest might 
represent general malcontents or troublemakers sent by your opponent. 
The cards in your Play area in front of you are the focus of your current 
leaders or government. The most prominent part of your Play area is usually 
the Regions 
 in which your civilisation has settled. When a Region goes 
from your deck to your Play area, it becomes something that is in active use, as 
opposed to Regions still in your deck or hand, which are yours to claim but you 
have yet to develop. 
Abandoning or Recalling a region doesn’t remove it from your civilisation – it 
just means that it is no longer available to tax or improve. When you play the 
Glory card, which requires you to Abandon three Regions in play, it represents 
your government focusing on some new (glorious) activity – such as building 
statues or hosting celebrations – as opposed to productive governance. Hence 
your regional infrastructure suffers from lack of attention and Resources.
Regions can also have cards Garrisoned in them by tucking cards 
underneath. That doesn’t constitute a military defence – it represents your 
civilisation pushing something (a problem, or something you can’t yet use) out 
into the provinces and leaving it to be addressed later (if at all). History is 
like a permanent Garrison under your Power card. With very few exceptions, 
cards in History can never be used again, though they are still counted during 
Scoring. Most civilisations place cards into History to thin their decks, and cards 
with powerful effects are often limited to a single use by putting themselves in 
History once they’ve been played – thematically representing a great leader 
who achieved a lot in one lifetime but, compared to the length of a civilisation, 
vanished rather quickly. 
Of course, it is very possible to play Imperium without considering how the 
mechanical actions of the game might be interpreted as a historical sandbox. But 
we think it’s a good deal more fun that way. And if you notice the parallels between 
theme and effects on cards, you might find it easier to conceptualise a strategy too. 

Using this Rulebook
Imperium is a game meant to be played many times. It has a large number of 
possible game combinations available in each box (especially Horizons) and it 
can be daunting to learn the rules while also choosing between so many options 
and reading so many exceptions to the rules.
The best way to learn to play is to select a simpler civilisation deck which 
interests you (see their Complexity rating: the lower, the simpler). With that 
deck selected, go through the Player setup sequence, and then do the Commons 
setup. Next read the How to Play section – including Clean-up and Scoring 
– and finally the Core Concepts section. You might need to refer back to the 
Clean-up and Reshuffling sections a few times, and certain unique civilisation 
elements might seem confusing at first, but it’s always better to press on through 
to get a sense of the game start-to-finish. If you teach the game to new players, 
we suggest you let them read the Core Concepts first (or walk them through the 
concepts yourself), and then guide them through a few turns with open hands, to 
understand their options.You might also enjoy playing along with the Example 
Turn, to get a sense of the strategic considerations.
Once you understand the basics, the Keywords section is designed to be the 
chapter of this book that you turn to for specific rules questions and clarifications. 
Words that are underlined, bold, and in italics are always Keywords, and we 
encourage you to look them up when encountering them for the first time. Even 
something as simple as Look (see page 38) or Take (see page 40) can have 
rule clarifications attached. All players should be able to refer to the Keywords 
section during play.
If you’re learning the game solo, we recommend you try the Practice Mode 
variant to start (see page 24). This is a solo game variant with a streamlined 
opponent. The full Solo Mode (see page 28) has opponent-specific rules that add 
a lot of flavour and unique challenges once you understand the mechanics. The 
Practice Mode can also be used later, to familiarise yourself with a civilisation 
you have never played before.
The Classics and Legends boxes each come with a set of Commons cards. 
Horizons has its own set of new Commons cards, some of which have 
 icons. The 
 icon indicates which cards should be removed for a Lowered 
Aggression game (see page 24). Keeping them in play preserves the distribution 
of cards found in Classics and Legends. The 
 cards are “trade friendly” 
alternative cards, allowing players to create different sorts of games. When 
using the Commons cards from Horizons, include either the cards marked 
 
or the cards marked 
 but not both! For your first game you should use 
as the 
 cards rely on new rules and concepts introduced as part of the Trade 
Routes expansion.
The Trade Routes expansion, included in Horizons (see page 26), introduces 
even more ways for players to interact and gain Resources. Some of the 
new civilisations require that Trade Routes be used, but any civilisation 
(even those from Classics & Legends) may use Trade Routes. We think you’ll 
eventually want to use the expansion more often than not.
Rules pertaining only to the Trade Routes expansion are 
highlighted with a blue background throughout these rules.
Rules pertaining to the solo mode are highlighted with a pink 
background throughout these rules.
For owners of imperium: 
Classics and Legends
Welcome back. Imperium: Horizons is the same Imperium game 
you learned before. The rulebook has been rewritten for clarity, 
so you might want to give it a read, but our intention is that no 
rules have fundamentally changed – there is nothing you have to 
unlearn. We have however added some REMINDERS for those 
rules that players tend to miss or forget.
A new Resource, Goods 
, has been added; the restrictions 
on when you can Develop your 
 cards have been adjusted 
to fit the new civilisations; a new keyword ‘End of Solstice’ 
appears on a few cards; and for solo players a new keyword 
‘Resolve’ appears on some Bot State cards, but we are confident 
you will pick these up in no time. Once you have had a chance 
to familiarise yourself with the new Commons deck, check out 
the new Trade Routes expansion included in this box, which 
will introduce a lot of new mechanisms and is compatible with 
everything that came before. 
You can use all Classics and Legends civilisations with the 
Horizons Commons deck. You can use all Horizons civilisations 
with the Classics and Legends Commons decks, but some may 
require the Trade Routes expansion (see page 26).
If you should find minor contradictions between this rulebook 
and (especially earlier printings of) the Classics/Legends 
rulebook, this rulebook reflects our current intentions and should 
be used going forward.
Replacement cards
Important! Before you play for the first time, identify all the 49 replacement 
cards included in Horizons. Their card numbers start with 1 or 2 (since they’re 
meant to replace cards in Classics and Legends) and are identical to the 
reference number of the card they are meant to replace (even if the card’s 
name might have changed) except with an extra ‘X’ in their code. For example, 
2REG3X/14 Peak is meant to replace 2REG3/14 Mountain in the Legends 
box, while 1CAR2X/23 City of Carthage is meant to replace the card of the 
same name in the Carthaginians deck in the Classics box.
•	 If you do not own Classics and/or Legends, keep these cards in the 
box, as you do not need them (for now).
•	 If you do own Classics and/or Legends, replace the matching cards 
with these, permanently. (You can throw away the originals if you 
want; you will never need them again.)
Most of these cards serve to integrate new icons and strategies introduced in 
Horizons to the Commons decks of Classics and Legends, while some cards are 
meant to adjust the balance of certain nations or strategies both in isolation and 
when mixed with Horizons.

Core ConceptS
Imperium is a complex game, but it is built up from a collection of less complex 
core concepts. Understanding these core concepts will not only help you learn 
and teach the game, but it also will provide you with a solid foundation for 
understanding how the more complex civilisations break or adjust these 
expectations. Take all text on cards literally, and don’t assume things not 
mentioned on the cards (or explicitly mentioned in these rules). When in doubt, 
refer to the keywords section.
Concept One: 
Deck Cycling
Imperium is a deck-building game, which means that each nation begins with 
the same, roughly ten cards every game. Over time you add or remove cards 
from your deck, reshuffling your Discard pile when your deck is empty so that 
you can always Draw a new hand of cards at the end of each turn.
Imperium gives most civilisations a deck of Nation cards, the bottom card 
of which is their Accession 
 card. Usually when you are about to reshuffle your 
Discard pile to form a new deck, you put the top card of your Nation deck into 
your Discard pile first – effectively increasing your deck size by one each time 
you shuffle (see ‘Reshuffling Your Draw Deck’, page 16).
Contrasting with the Nation deck is your stack of Development 
Once your Nation deck is empty and you need to reshuffle again, you have 
the opportunity to Pay the Development cost on any of the cards in your 
Development area, and add it to your Discard pile. These are often big point 
cards or strategy-defining advantages, so adding the right Development card to 
your deck at the right moment (and being able to Pay its Development cost!) is 
a big deal, strategically.
Most civilisations are desperate to get some or all of their and 
so cycling through your deck as fast as possible is often an important focus 
of the game. However, each civilisation in Imperium is unique, and all of the 
guidelines here are bent and/or broken in at least a few cases.
Concept Two: 
Resources
game 
has 
four 
Resources: 
Materials 
Population 
Progress 
, and Goods 
. In most cases, Region 
 cards are the source 
of Resources, either directly or through card effects as with the card Prosperity. 
The various icons on 
 cards thematically representing the properties of lands 
you hold are frequently tied to Resource generation effects.
Resources may be located in the Supply shared by all players, a player’s 
Resource pool, or on cards in the players’ areas. Resources may be moved 
around in a number of ways through the keywords Gain (see page 38), Place 
(see page 39), and Pay (see page 39). Resources on cards (whether yours or 
the Market’s) are not available to be paid or moved, and do not count as yours 
during Scoring (unless explicitly noted otherwise).
Resource tokens are not meant to be limited. You may use the higher 
denomination tokens (5s and 10s) to make change any time as convenient. 
When resolving the Pay keyword, some Resources may be converted for others 
(see page 36). This is however not true for the Move keyword, or any other time 
that is not explicitly permitted by an effect.
Concept Three: 
Actions and Exhausts
During most of your turns, you will take a number of Actions and Exhaust abilities 
depending on the number of 
 tokens you have. This will normally be 3 
 
tokens and 5 
 tokens but can vary. 
Your 3 
 tokens are used to track Actions as you take them. The most common 
Action is simply playing a card from your hand. Putting a 
 into play, using an Attack 
card (see page 36), and Returning an Unrest 
 card are all examples of Actions.
 tokens are used to track Exhaust effects that trigger only once per turn, found on 
cards that stay in play in front of you (see In-play cards on page 38). Exhaust effects often 
generate Resources, interact with icons, or Draw cards. Some civilisations change the 
default number of 
 tokens you use during play.
 tokens are also used to mark if you add a new card to your deck during a reshuffle 
– this prevents players from repeating the effect and thus adding multiple cards to their 
deck in a single turn. But remember that it also ties up one of your 
 tokens, thus 
reducing your available 
 tokens for the rest of your turn. At the end of your turn you 
remove all 
 tokens before Drawing a new hand of cards – so there is always a full set 
of 
 tokens available during your end-of-turn Draw/Reshuffle, when it is most common 
to add a new Nation or Development card to your deck. (See ‘Reshuffling Your Draw 
Deck’ on page 16.)
Concept Four: 
Gaining new cards
In Imperium, new cards almost always go directly into your hand. It is very common 
to spend an Action adding a new card into your hand, and then spend your next Action 
playing that card! There are four ways to gain cards.
The most common method is using the Acquire effect (see page 36) to gain a card 
from the face-up Market row of five cards. Some Acquire effects specify that only certain 
suits may be Acquired, and others might allow you to Acquire any of the five cards. In all 
cases, when you Acquire a Market card you also Take any 
 underneath it and any 
Resource tokens on it. All Market cards except 
 cards will have a 
 underneath 
them. Cards Acquired from the Market are immediately replaced, such that there are 
always five available. 
The second most common (and more powerful) method to gain cards is via a 
Break through effect. This can be used in two distinct ways:
Gain a card and any Resources from the Market row (just like Acquire), but any 
 is put back on the Unrest pile instead of taking it into your hand.
Dig into one of the face-down Small decks and take the first card of the appropriate 
suit you find.
Take and Find (see page 38) are effects which directly move cards into your hand (or 
elsewhere, as specified).
Concept Five: 
Fame and Glory
Many cards give victory points, but the largest gains come from cards in the 
Fame deck 
. Deciding how often you want to access that deck for points is a core 
decision for all players of Imperium. Some 
 cards are worth ten victory points or more, 
but taking them often comes at a heavy cost, which can set you back several turns.
The most common way to gain 
 cards is with the card Glory, which requires that 
you Abandon (place in your Discard pile, see page 36) three 
 cards in play. Those lost 
regions require Actions to be put in play again, thicken your deck and make it take longer 
to cycle in new Nation/Development cards, and do not provide you Resources while they 
are out of play. Weighing up when to play Glory is then a tough choice to make.

261 Tokens
Additional cards
Commons cards
14 new civilisation decks
14 Trade route 
expansion cards
POLYNESIANS
trigger
Effect
Return this card to the unrest pile.
 and trigger it.
Explorers
 . Put this card on the bottom of the bot deck.
Waka 
Hourua
 . Reshuffle bot discard and this card (Waka Hourua) into the bot 
deck. Flip this state card.
Waka Taua
Abandon a 
 ; if unable, acquire a 
 ; if still unable, gain 1 
 . Exile a card from the market. Gain 1 
 and 1 
Spend 1 
 and put this card into history; if unable, gain 2 
Discard the top 2 cards of the bot deck. Return a 
 from bot discard. Put this 
card into history.
Other
Spend 1 
 and put this card into history; if unable, discard 
the top 2 cards of the bot deck and gain 1 
When 
 is gained, do not flip this state card.
S
Martians
3MRT1A/29
Setup: gain 25 
Passive: when you gain 
 from a 
market acquisition, you MAY discard a 
card to gain 1 fewer 
. You MAY ignore 
 gain effects from other sources.
3GUP1A/24
Exhaust: take a 
 from your discard pile OR trade.
Polynesians
3POL1A/29
Passive: when a card would be put into your 
history, instead discard it and take a 
Exhaust: if 
, pay 2 
gain 1 mana.
per 10 
3WAG1A/23
Solstice: gain 2 
. For each 
have in play, gain 1 additional 
7 cards
3ABB1A/23
Exhaust: If 
, spend 
an action to aquire a 
, spend an action to acquire 
 in 
play
 
 
Merchant Empire
3MERC1B/4
Exhaust: choose: trade OR pay 3 
acquire a 
 OR if there is no card 
garrisoned here, pay 5 
 and garrison 
 from your hand here to take 
the top 
Utopians
2UTO1BX/21
Passive: when you reshuffle your discard 
pile into a new draw deck, take a 
Solstice: you MAY return a 
. If you 
do, each other player gains 2 
Jungle
1REG2X/14
Notorious
1FAM3X/9
Free play. You MAY draw a card.
Steal 1 
 from each other player. 
Anyone unable to pay takes a 
 
City of Carthage
1CAR2X/23
 
 to draw a card per 
 
you have in play (max 3).
EMPIRE
4 State cards
32 Bot State cards
2 Quick Reference cards
49 Updated cards for replacing cards in Classics and Legends
1 Market board in three parts
4 Player organisers in two parts
4 King of Kings tokens
1 Solstice token
20 Cultist tokens
21 Exhaustion tokens
18 Action tokens 
6 Slot markers
9 Fame cards 
, including King of Kings 
18 Civilised 
 cards (3 
, 3 
25 Uncivilised 
 cards (4 
, 3 
14 Region 
 cards (1 
13 Tributary 
 cards (2 
, 1 
12 Unrest 
23 Abbasids cards 
23 Aksumites cards 
29 Cultists cards
24 Gupta cards 
25 Inuit cards
24 Japan cards
27 Magyars cards
29 Martians cards
28 Mayans cards
29 Polynesians cards
24 Sassanids cards 
24 Taino cards
27 Tang cards 
23 Wagadou cards 
1 Fame card 
 (Welcoming)
4 Merchant/Merchant Empire 
9 Trade Route 
48 Materials tokens
48 Population tokens
48 Progress tokens
36 Goods tokens
1 Six-sided die
 
 
 
 
 
Components

Chaos
3CUL25/30
-3 
Pay 1 
 to return 
this card to the chaos pile.
IMPORTANT: If the chaos pile is empty 
when Collapse is triggered, the Cultist player 
AUTOMATICALLY WINS.
3+
 
 
Harbour City
3CIV8/18
 to draw a card per 
 you have 
in play (max 3).
 
Rarotonga
3POL7/29
Solstice: gain 1 
Development cost: Discard 2 mana
River Raiders
3UNC14/25
Draw a card. Steal 1 
 from each other 
player. Anyone unable to pay takes a 
 
and gains 1 
.You MAY garrison this 
card under a 
 you have in play 
1: Classics
2: Legends
3: Horizons
3CIV1/18
CIV: Civilised cards
FAM: Fame cards
MERC: Merchant cards
REG: Region cards
TRI: Tributary cards
TRO: Trade route cards
UNC: Uncivilised cards
UNR: Unrest cards
ABB: Abbasids
AKS: Aksumites
ART: Arthurians
ATL: Atlanteans
CAR: Carthaginians
CEL: Celts
CUL: Cultists
EGY: Egyptians
GRE: Greeks
GUP: Guptas
INU: Inuits
JPN: Japan
MAC: Macedonians
MAG: Magyar
MAU: Mauryans
MAY: Mayans
MIN: Minoans
MRT: Martians
OLM: Olmecs
PER: Persians
POL: Polynesians
QIN: Qin
ROM: Romans
SAS: Sassanids
SCY: Scythians
TAI: Taino
TAN: Tang
UTO: Utopians
VIK: Vikings
WAG: Wagadou
#/#: card reference

Card Element Breakdown
Card name: the name of the card.
Suit icon: most cards have a suit icon. These are essential when you gain 
new cards from the Market and are frequently referenced by other cards.
Banner: the colour of the banner behind the card’s name matches the 
card’s suit. These are particularly important during setup. Cards without 
a suit have a grey banner. Cards with multiple suits use the banner colour 
appropriate for setup.
Header icon: 
 cards remain in play. 
 cards affect other 
players. Power cards have an 
 and a 
 side.
State symbol(s): many cards have a state symbol such as 
. The 
Polynesians and Cultists have their own unique symbols. You cannot play 
a card that has a state symbol unless your current State card matches (at 
least one of) the symbol(s) shown on the card. Some cards show two state 
symbols, meaning your current State cards must match at least one of 
the symbols shown.
Card type icon: some cards have card type icons that have no innate 
effect but may be referenced by other cards. For example, the card River 
Raiders, grants 2 VP for each 
 icon in your possession at the game’s end.
Effect text: details what the card does and when it is activated. See page 
14 for how to read this text.
 cards have a Development cost, usually a 
quantity of 
, and/or 
 tokens that you have to spend to Develop it.
Nation colour: the colour of this corner indicates that the card is part of 
a specific Nation’s deck. Cards without a coloured corner are part of the 
“Commons” cards used in every game. (This is useful for sorting your 
cards after each game.)
Starting location: the symbol on the nation colour indicates where the 
card starts during setup:
Player count: cards with a 3+ aren’t used in a solo or two-player game. 
Cards with a 4 aren’t used in a solo, two-, or three-player game.
Expansion: cards with a 
 are only used when playing with the 
Trade Routes expansion (see page 26). Cards with a 
 symbol 
cannot be used in the same Commons deck (see step 3 of the Commons 
setup on page 13).
Card number: a number reference for the card. If the first digit of the 
reference is a 1, the card is from the Classics box. If it’s a 2, it is from the 
Legends box. Cards from the Horizons box begin with a 3.
Victory points: how many victory points the card is worth at the end 
of the game, if any. Cards with a 
VP icon are worth X points. Cards 
with a 
VP icon are worth a variable number of victory points, as 
specified on the card. Cards with a 
 icon are worth negative X points.
Note that if this is your first-time learning Imperium, don’t be 
intimidated by references to more complicated civilisations, or 
civilisations that are not even in this box! Just ignore them, along 
with any mention of the Trade Routes expansion, as it is intended 
for experienced players.
Card Type Icons
 City
 Fertile
 Hunt
 Knight
 Mask
 Merchant
 Miracle
 Ocean
 Production
 River
 Scroll
Starting Locations
 	 
	
In play: in your Player area
	 	
Nation: in the Nation deck
	 
	
Accession: at the bottom of the Nation deck
	 
	
Development: in the Development area
	 
	
Supply: in the Unrest pile
	 
	
Chaos: a deck of special havoc for 
the Cultist player
Suit Icons
 Region: areas under your nation’s control.
 Uncivilised: traditional cultural 
technologies and customs.
 Civilised: highly structured or centralised 
technologies and customs.
 Tributary: peoples who have pledged loyalty 
to your nation.
 Fame: memorable deeds of your nation. 
 Unrest: internal strife and disorder in your nation.
 Gadget: dangerous items of curious origins, brought 
by the Martian civilisation.
 Power: the fundamental rules of the nation you are 
playing. Side A is Advanced, side B is Basic.
 Trade Routes: hubs of commerce allowing trade 
between nations.

Magyars
3MAG1B/27
Saint Stephen I
3MAG3/27
4 VP
Cannot be played unless Arpad is in your history.
Put up to 3 cards from your hand and/or discard 
pile into your history. Take the top 
 x5
 
in play
Conversion to Christianity
3MAG2/27
Free play. Choose up to 3 times: 
return a 
 OR take a 
Accession Card
draw deck
chaos pile
nation-specific cards
state card
merchant power card
power card
discard pile
player organiser
play area
development area
Resource pool
Nation Deck
Player Setup
Each player takes the following steps:
Choose a nation and take all the associated cards, as indicated by the 
colour in the bottom left corner. Before choosing a nation, you should look 
at the ‘Nations’ chapter for an overview of the different decks.
If you are not playing with Trade Routes, you may not choose 
one of the 6 nations with the 
 icon.
Take a Player organiser, slot the pieces together and lay them 
in front of you.
Place your single 
 card in front of you, underneath your Player 
organiser. You can place it either side up, but you cannot change this later 
in the game. This is your Power card. For new players, we recommend 
playing with the B side up (B for Basic, A for Advanced).
Place any other 
 cards below your Power card, if you have any. 
Only the Arthurians, the Cultists, the Polynesians, and the Utopians 
have additional 
If you’re playing as the Arthurians, place King Arthur’s Court 
face up below your Power card.
If you’re playing as the Cultists, put Research the Ceremony on 
top of Ceremonial Gathering and place them below your Power 
card. The top card in this pile is your ceremony card.
If you’re playing as the Polynesians, place Mana face up below 
your Power card.
If you’re playing as the Utopians, put Visions of Shangri-La on 
top of Gates of Shangri-La and place them below your Power 
card. The top card in this pile is your journey card.
Setup

Place a State card with the 
 side up underneath your Player organiser.
If you’re playing as the Atlanteans, instead place your State 
card with the 
If you’re playing as the Cultists, place your State card with 
 side up, on top of your custom State card that has the 
Corrupted 
If you’re playing as the Inuit, use their custom State card with 
the Summer 
If you’re playing as the Martians, use their custom State card 
with the Alien 
If you’re playing as the Polynesians, use their custom State card 
with the Isle-bound 
If you’re playing as the Taino, use their custom Free Tribes 
 
State card (it’s identical on both sides).
If you’re playing with the Inuit, the Martians, the Polynesians, 
or the Taino, return your regular (Barbarian/Empire) State 
card to the box.
Take 3 
 tokens, and 5 
 tokens (unless your 
 card indicates 
otherwise). Place these tokens on your State card.
If you’re playing as the Cultists, Inuit, Polynesians, Taino, 
or Utopians, use a base of 3 
 tokens instead of 5 
, as 
indicated on their 
playing 
Trade 
Routes, 
give 
each 
an 
additional 
 token. 
If playing with Trade Routes, take a Merchants 
 card (they are 
identical) and place it face-up (with the Merchants side showing) 
below your State card.
Place all the 
 cards face up above the Player organiser. This is 
your Development area. For most nations, the 
 cards are your 
Development cards.
For the Arthurians, these are your Quest cards. When quest 
cards are in the Development area, they are considered to be 
impending quests for your Quest area.
The Cultists, Vikings and Utopians do not have any 
Development cards.
Place the 
 card face up above your Player organiser. For most nations, 
 card is your Accession card.
The Atlanteans, the Cultists, the Inuit, and the Utopians don’t 
have a 
Shuffle the cards into a face-down deck and place it perpendicular 
across the top of the 
 card. This is your Nation deck.
The Atlanteans, the Cultists, the Inuit, and the Utopians do not 
have a Nation deck.
Take a King of Kings token, 3 
, 2 
, and 1 
. The 
tokens form your initial Resource pool (
 tokens may also be added 
here). The King of Kings token should be placed next to your Resource 
pool with the lighter side facing up.
If there is a Martian player, give them an additional 20 or 25 
, as indicated on their 
If playing with Trade Routes, give each player 1 
 
instead of the 1 
Put aside any 
 cards. They will be used in step 6 of the Commons setup. 
Only include 3+ and 4 cards if playing with that many players or 
more, otherwise return them to the box. All 
 cards are 
The Arthurians, Celts, Cultists, Guptas, Inuit, Magyars, 
Martians, Mayans, Olmecs, Polynesians, Qin, Tang, Utopians, 
and Vikings have 
Shuffle all remaining cards (the cards from your civilisation which have 
no icons in the lower left corner) into a face-down deck and place it below 
your Player organiser. This is your Draw deck.
If you’re playing as the Cultists, place all Chaos cards below your 
Draw deck to form the Chaos pile. Only include 3+ and 4 
cards if playing with that many players or more, otherwise return 
them to the box.
Leave a space next to your Draw deck for a face-up Discard pile, and 
a larger area to the right for your Play area where your In-play cards 
will be placed.
Draw (see page 37) five cards from your Draw deck to form 
your starting hand.

3UNR5/12
3UNR3/12
King of Kings
3FAM10A/10
When you would gain this card, 
instead resolve it. Then flip this card.
THIS TRIGGERS GAME END.
, gain 6 
, gain 3 
 and develop for free.
 
Mangrove
3REG2/14
Trade Caravans
3UNC4/25
Exhaust: choose: move 2 of your 
2 different cards in the market to gain 
 OR if 
, pay 2 
 and discard 
a card to acquire a card in the market 
 on it.
Market Stalls
3CIV12/18
Exhaust: each other player 
MAY draw a card.
 to gain 2 
 
 to gain 2 
3 VP if 
in play
Volcano
3REG1/14
Carolingian Kingdom
3TRI8/13
You MAY free play a 
. You MAY 
garrison this card in a 
 to trigger that 
card’s play effect.

Commons Setup
Place the remaining 
 tokens on the table, 
easily accessible to all players. This is the Supply.
Place the Market board in the middle of the table, easily accessible 
to all players. For a normal game, place it so that the side without 
icons is showing.
If you are playing with Trade Routes, place the Market board so 
that the side with the 
 icon is showing.
Select a set of Commons cards (all cards without a Nation colour). You 
may use the cards from Classics, Legends, or Horizons.
If you are playing with Trade Routes, you must use the cards 
with the 
 icon in the Horizons Commons deck. To do so, you 
must remove all cards with the 
 icon from the deck.
Sort all the Commons cards by the colour of their banner. In most cases a 
card’s banner colour corresponds to the suit icon at the bottom: 
. Some cards use multiple suit icons, and 
during the game they count as cards of both suits. During setup however, 
the banner colour takes precedence.
If using nations and commons cards from different boxes, 
check if any of the 
 cards have the same name as one of 
the players’ chosen nations. For each card that does, replace it 
with a random 
 card from a different set of commons cards. 
If the new card shows a 3+ or a 4 and you’re playing with 
fewer than the indicated number of players, or if it has the same 
name as one of the players’ chosen nations, draw a different 
replacement card instead.
If you are playing with three players, remove all 4 Commons cards from 
the game. If you are playing with two players, remove all 3+ and 4 
Commons cards with from the game.
Place all the 
 cards face up, below the 
 icon on the Market board. 
This is the Unrest pile. Include any 
 cards put aside by the players 
during step 10 of their player setup. These can be in any order. Leave 
space to the right of the Unrest pile for the Exile pile.
Place the 
 card King of Kings with the 
 side showing, above the 
 icon on the Market board.
Shuffle the remaining Fame 
 cards into a face-down deck and place it on 
top of the King of Kings card, perpendicular to it. This is the Fame deck.
If playing with Trade Routes, shuffle the Welcoming 
into the Fame deck. (The Trade Routes expansion increases the 
size of the Fame deck by one card!)
Remove cards from the top of the Fame 
 deck and return them to the 
box unseen until the 
 deck has the indicated number of face-down cards 
(excluding King of Kings), appropriate for the player count, as listed below.
If playing without Trade Routes:
2 players – 6 cards | 3 players – 7 cards | 4 players – 8 cards
If playing with Trade Routes, increase the final deck size by 1. 
When creating the 
 deck, 
 deck, and 
 deck 
(steps 10–12), the number of cards in each depends on the 
number of players:
2 players – 6 cards | 3 players – 7 cards | 4 players – 8 cards
Region deck. Set aside the other 
Uncivilised deck. Set aside the other 
Civilised deck. Set aside the other 
 cards. Place one 
 card face up on the bottom of 
each of the Small decks (Region, Uncivilised, and Civilised, created 
in steps 10–12). Then, if playing with 3 players, remove one of the 
remaining 
 cards (without looking at it) from the game. If playing 
with 2 players, remove two. Set aside the remaining 
for now.
Shuffle all the remaining 
, and all the 
 cards to form the 
Main deck. Place the Main deck face down to the left of the 
 Civilised 
deck, above the 
 
 
 
 on the Market board. Placing the deck 
horizontally helps to make it distinct from the other decks.
If playing with Trade Routes, shuffle the remaining 
into the Main Deck.
Draw one card from each of the Region, Uncivilised, and Civilised 
decks and place each card face up, below the Market board opposite its 
respective deck. Draw two cards from the Main deck and place them 
face up side-by-side below the Market board opposite the deck. Together, 
these five cards form the Market.
Place a 
 card from the Unrest pile underneath each card in the Market 
that is not a 
17.	
Add a 
 token on each card in the Market with a white banner.
18.	
Decide which player will go first. Play passes to the left. Place the 
Solstice token as if it were a player between the last player and the 
first. The position of the Solstice token acts as a reminder that everyone 
simultaneously resolves their Solstice effects (see page 16) after the last 
player’s turn, but before the first player begins a new round.

ACTIVATE
INNOVATE
REVOLT
OR
OR
Flow of Play
The game is played over an indeterminate number of rounds. Each round starts 
with the player to the left of the Solstice token taking the first turn. Turn order 
proceeds to the left. Play continues until either Scoring or Collapse is triggered, 
which signals the end of the game (see page 17).
In each turn, you will declare what type of turn you are taking:
Once you have finished resolving one of the above turns, you will Clean-up 
(see next page).
After you have cleaned up, the player to your left takes their turn. If the 
Solstice token is between you and the player to your left, all players resolve all 
their Solstice effects before beginning the next round. Solstice is always the last 
thing to happen each round (see page 16).
The ‘Activate’ turn
When you take an Activate turn, you can take Actions (see page 36) and use 
Exhaust abilities (see page 37) in any order and in any combination. When you 
cannot or no longer want to take Actions or use Exhaust abilities, you will move 
on to Clean-up. Players typically Activate on most turns of the game, unless 
very specific circumstances make it beneficial to Innovate or Revolt.
Taking Actions
To take an Action, first set aside a 
 token from your State card. If you have 
no 
 tokens on your State card, you may not take an Action. (For the main 
exception, see Free play on page 38.)
The most common type of Action is to play a card from your hand into your 
Play area and resolve its effects according to the card text. Any other effect that 
costs an Action will be explicitly noted.
If a card has a State symbol such as 
, you can only play it from 
your hand if your State card shows the same symbol.
A few cards in the Cultists’ deck show two State symbols; 
your State card needs to show one of them to be allowed to 
play such a card.
Cards where the first line of text starts with Exhaust, Passive (see page 39), or 
Solstice have no immediate effects when played. These are all 
 cards have a Commerce effect, which resolves when you 
play the card (see page 37).
When a card is played, resolve all effects as much as possible (see below for 
guidance), including resolving any responding triggered effects such as Passive 
abilities or deck reshuffling (see ‘Reshuffling Your Draw Deck’ on page 16). 
Afterwards, place the card in your Discard pile unless the card indicates that 
it should be placed elsewhere. If a card has a 
 it remains in your play area 
after you play it.
 cards have the special 
 icon instead of 
. Like 
cards with 
 remain in your play area after being played. 
However, they are NOT 
 cards, and are not affected by things 
which specify 
Many cards have keywords. These are explained in detail in the Keywords 
section (see page 36) and are denoted in-text as bold, italics, and underlined.
Resolving and Interpreting Card Text
When resolving card text (whether from a played card, Passive effect, Solstice 
effect, or Exhaust effect) there are a few important principles which should help 
you make sense of even the most complex cards.
Each sentence should be resolved individually, starting with the 
first sentence.
Each sentence should be resolved as much as possible. Text immediately 
following MAY is always optional, everything else is always mandatory.
If no part of a card’s text can be resolved, you cannot play that card.
If a card does not explicitly state where it should go after resolving, it goes 
to your Discard pile. This does not apply to 
This also does not apply to 
Anything that comes before “to” is a cost. As in “Do X to gain Y” (X is the 
cost, Y is the result). You may Pay (see page 39) a cost, even if the text’s 
effect cannot be resolved or the resolution is uncertain.
Anything involving “Pay” or “Move Resources” is a cost, even if not 
followed by a “to”.
If some or all of the mandatory costs on a card cannot be resolved, you 
cannot play that card or trigger that effect.
Always fully resolve the cost(s) before beginning to resolve the 
rest of the effect.
If you Pay a cost (optional or not), you must resolve the result (as 
much as possible).
Some Resources can be substituted for others. See the 
keywords section, page 39, for rules on substitutions.

Using Exhaust Abilities
You can only use an Exhaust ability on your own Activate turn, unless the 
card specifies otherwise. You can never use Exhausts during Solstice, or during 
Revolt or Innovate turns.
To use an Exhaust ability, choose a card with the Exhaust keyword that does 
not have a 
 token on it. This can be an In-play (see page 38) card, or it can 
be your Power card. Move a 
 token from your State card onto that card. If 
you have no 
 tokens on your State card, you may not use an Exhaust ability. 
If a card already has a 
 token on it, you may not use the Exhaust ability 
shown on that card.
You may use an Exhaust ability on an In-play card with a state symbol such 
as 
, regardless of which symbol is showing on your State card.
Once you have placed your 
 token, fully resolve the effect indicated after 
the Exhaust keyword. Some Exhaust abilities specify a cost. If you cannot Pay 
the specified cost, you may not use that Exhaust ability. 
If an Exhaust ability responds to an effect you or another player resolves 
(such as “when an opponent Takes 
 …”), the Exhaust ability happens as 
soon as the triggering effect is finished. If that effect is triggered by a card with 
multiple sentences, the response ability happens after the sentence with the 
triggering effect is finished, but before the next sentence begins.
The ‘Innovate’ turn
An Innovate turn allows you to Break through (see page 36) for a card, at the 
expense of not doing anything else. During an Innovate turn you take no Actions 
and may not use any Exhaust abilities. Instead, do the following:
Place all the cards in your hand into your Discard pile.
 (see page 36).
Note that you may not use the Innovate turn to Break 
Move on to Clean-up.
Note that cards with Passive abilities will still trigger on an Innovate turn.
The ‘Revolt’ turn
A Revolt turn allows you to permanently remove a number of 
 cards from 
your deck without spending Resources, at the expense of not doing anything 
else. During a Revolt turn you may take no Actions and use no Exhaust abilities. 
Instead, do the following:
Return (see page 39) any number of 
 cards from your hand to their 
proper pile(s). This will normally be the Unrest pile.
Move on to Clean-up.
Note that cards with Passive abilities will still trigger on a Revolt turn.
Clean-Up
At the end of your turn, complete the Clean-up steps in order. Once you’ve 
completed step 1, the next player can start their turn while you complete the 
rest of your Clean-up.
Add 1 
 from the Supply to any card in the Market. This represents the 
natural development of ideas and general progression of time.
If you’re playing as the Carthaginians, Cultists Power B, 
Guptas, Qin, Tang or the Wagadou, add the token(s) indicated 
on your Power card, instead of 1 
Remove all of your 
 tokens from all cards in your Play 
area, your Nation deck, your Development area, and your Power card. 
Then reset your State card to have 3 
 tokens and 5 
If you’re playing as the Cultists, Inuit, Polynesians, Taino, or 
the Utopians, only place 3 
 tokens.
If you’re playing with the Trade Routes expansion, place an 
additional 
 token (6 or 4, depending on the nation).
You may Discard (see page 37) any number of cards from your hand into 
your Discard pile.
Draw (see page 37) cards from your Draw deck up to your hand size. 
Your default hand size is five, but it can be modified by effects in the 
game. If you already hold cards equal to or exceeding your hand size, 
don’t Draw any cards. However, you are never forced to Discard down to 
your hand size.
As cycling through your deck is your main way of gaining access 
to your nation’s    , 
 cards, it’s often a good idea to 
Discard most or all leftover cards at the end of your turn.

Reshuffling your Draw Deck
If you need to Draw a card and your Draw deck is empty, shuffle your Discard 
pile to make a new Draw deck. Resolve this immediately when triggered, 
even on another player’s turn. Before you reshuffle, determine whether 
you should add a new card from your Nation deck or Development area to 
your Discard pile.
In order to add new cards to your deck when reshuffling, you must have a 
 
token available and at least one card in your Nation deck or Development area. 
 token is used to mark that you have added a card via reshuffle this turn.
If you already have a 
 token on your Nation deck or Development area, 
or if you have no 
 tokens left on your State card (because you have already 
used them all during your turn), you may not add a card during reshuffle, and 
should begin at step 3 below.
Note that you will always have unused 
 tokens if the reshuffle happens 
during Clean-up, as the second step of Clean-up is to return all your 
to your State card. This is when most reshuffles happen.
If you have at least one card (including your 
 card) in your 
Nation deck: Place the top card of your Nation deck in your Discard pile, 
then move a 
 token from your State card onto your Nation deck (or 
into your Development area, if your Nation deck is now empty). 
If you placed your 
 card into your Discard pile: Flip your 
State card to its other side. Move on to step 3.
If you have no cards in your Nation deck (not even your 
 card) 
but at least one card in your Development area: You may Pay the 
Development cost shown on any one of your face-up Development cards 
to Develop it (see page 37). Place that card in your Discard pile. If you 
do, move a 
 token from your State card into your Development area. 
If you cannot Pay the Development cost of any remaining card, you 
cannot Develop.
Shuffle your Discard pile to form a new Draw deck. 
Resolve any “when you reshuffle” effects now – see the Cultist and the 
Utopian Power cards
Draw cards until you reach your hand limit as normal.
Some cards instruct you to “Draw the top card of the deck if able”. These 
effects never trigger a reshuffle. If your Draw deck is empty when you use an “if 
able” effect or it becomes empty during an “if able” effect, do not Draw further 
cards and do not reshuffle your deck.
Some civilisations never have a Nation deck (so they never resolve step 1), 
or never have a Development area (so they never resolve step 2), or never have 
either (so they always go to step 3)!
Solstice
When all players have finished a turn, Solstice begins. The Solstice token sits 
between the last player and the first player to remind you of this.
During Solstice, each player must resolve all Solstice effects in their Play 
area, their Power card, and possibly their State card. These effects can be 
resolved simultaneously by all players. 
Note that in those extremely rare situations when the order of resolution 
does matter (usually this is possible when the game is nearing a Collapse), the 
players resolve their Solstice effects in turn order.
Solstice effects must be resolved as much as possible unless the card 
specifies that it is optional.
If you have multiple effects which need to resolve simultaneously, you choose 
the order in which to activate or resolve them. This will most frequently happen 
with Solstice effects but can happen at other times as well.
If a card has a Solstice effect which allows or forces “each other player” to do 
something, each player resolves that effect independently, as part of their own 
Solstice phase, in the order of their choice relative to their own effects.
If you have a card marked ‘End of Solstice’, that effect must be resolved last, 
after all your other Solstice effects.
Once all players have resolved all their Solstice effects, the next round of 
player turns begins.
REMINDER: All players should perform their Solstice effects 
simultaneously.
REMINDER: You may never spend Actions or use Exhaust effects 
during Solstice.

Game End
The game ends when either Scoring or Collapse is triggered.
Scoring is triggered if one of the following conditions is met:
There are no more cards in the Main deck
A player Develops the last card in their Development area or meets the 
Scoring condition of their Nation
The King of Kings 
 card is flipped face down (see below)
A player uses a card effect that “TRIGGERS GAME END”
Collapse is triggered immediately if there are ever no cards left in the Unrest 
pile, even if Scoring has already been triggered!
Scoring
When Scoring is triggered, complete the current round and Solstice as normal. 
Then play one final round, including resolving the Solstice.
All players add up their victory points.
Leave cards where they were when the game ended as you score, as 
some 
VP cards and 
VP cards score differently depending on their location.
Score every card in your Hand, Play area, Draw deck, Discard pile and 
History (see page 38)/Legends (see page 46)/Flooded (see page 42) pile, as 
well as for your Power card. Do not score for un-played cards still in your Nation 
deck or your Development area.
If you have multiple cards that score for having certain card types or 
Resources, they can all score on the same cards or Resources.
 scores or subtracts victory points 
equal to the number indicated.
VP scores the number of victory points 
indicated if the condition specified has been met. Otherwise, it 
scores no points. 
VP scores a variable number of victory points, 
as specified on the card. You can never score more than 10 
points from a 
VP card. Resources on cards do not count 
towards 
VP cards such as Moneylenders or Mercenaries.
After checking your cards, count the number of 
 tokens in your Resource 
pool. Every 
 in your Resource pool is worth 1 victory point. 
cards are not scored.
The player with the most victory points wins.
In the case of a tie, the tied players share the victory.
REMINDER: 
VP cards are limited to a maximum of 10 victory points 
each, even your 
Collapse
When Collapse is triggered, the game ends immediately, without completing 
the current Action. In the rare case of Collapse triggering during an effect where 
multiple players receive Unrest, and there is not enough Unrest to be given out, 
the player who triggered the effect (active player, or the card’s owner during 
Solstice) decides who gets them.
Count the number of 
 in your Hand, Play area, Draw deck, Discard pile, 
and History. The player with the fewest 
 wins. (Cards still in your Nation 
deck, or the Cultist’s Chaos pile do not count.)
Exception: if a Cultist player has an empty Chaos pile at the 
time Collapse is triggered, they win immediately.
In the case of a tie, the tied players calculate their scores as per normal Scoring. 
The highest score wins.
The fame deck
When an effect (such as Glory) allows you to manipulate the 
 deck, King of Kings always remains on the bottom. So 
long as there are any cards above King of Kings, Look, Gain, 
and Draw effects refer only to those face-down cards and 
not King of Kings.
When returning a card to the 
 deck after completing one of 
these actions, return it to the top of the deck without shuffling.
If King of Kings is the only 
 card left, then any effect which 
would Draw or Gain a 
 card resolves King of Kings instead. 
You can never resolve King of Kings until this point.
King of Kings is always placed Side A up during setup. The 
first time it is resolved during a game, it is flipped to the B side. 
No player may resolve King of Kings more than once per game. 
The player who resolved the A side cannot resolve the B side. 
To track this, any player who resolves King of Kings should flip 
their King of Kings token as a reminder.

Advance
3JPN20/24
Choose: pay 3 
 
OR pay 5 
 to break through 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market
Cards in play
Player area
cards in hand
Example Turn
You are playing as Japan in a three-player game against a Taino and a Magyar player. At the moment, you are a Barbarian state. It 
is the start of your third turn, and you are the last player in the round (before Solstice). You have three Actions to plan out, so let’s 
examine your five cards in hand. 
Glory is a very strong card, but it requires you to have three Regions in play, and you have only one. You do have a second region 
in your hand – Kansai – which you can plan to play this turn. Still, it’s unlikely that you’ll be able to use Glory soon. 
Prince Shotoku Taishi is a uniquely powerful card which is placed into History after just one use, so let’s make the most of him: he 
can Find one of two very strong cards from your Nation deck as well as Return Unrest or allow you to Free play a late-game, Empire-
only card. Looking at the Metropolis in the Market, a plan involving this second option forms… 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Advance
3JPN20/24
Choose: pay 3 
 
OR pay 5 
 to break through 
 
 
pay
You select an ‘Activate’ turn, so that you can play cards and use Exhaust 
effects normally.
You Exhaust Appeal to China and choose to add 1 
onto Metropolis.
Then you use a 
 token to play Advance, Paying 3 
 to Acquire 
the Metropolis, along with all three tokens currently on it and the 
Unrest underneath it. (In the future you could spend this 
 as 2 
 
through substitutions (see page 39) – so in effect the net cost of this 
Action was only 1 
!)
	
A new card is placed in the Market – Mercenaries – and a new Unrest 
is placed underneath it. This leaves only 1 Unrest in the Unrest pile, 
so the game is in danger of Collapse!
	
Finally, you add Advance to the discard pile.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You decide to use a 
 token to play one of your Unrest cards, in 
order to keep away from Collapse. You can Pay 3 
, or 1 
discard 2 cards to Pay for its Return. You choose to Discard Glory and 
the other Unrest card.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Now you are ready for your big move! You use your third 
 token to 
play Prince Shotoku Taishi and choose the second option.
You Free play the Metropolis (ignoring its 
 symbol), then find 
Kanji out of your Nation deck adding it to your hand and shuffling the 
rest of your Nation deck - except your 
 card - afterwards. You place 
Prince Shotoku Taishi in your History.
As you played Metropolis, a 
 card, you can also Exhaust Shinto to 
 and Draw 2 cards. You Draw Clans and another Unrest.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pay
With so many cards left, it seems reasonable to Exhaust your 
 
card’s ability to Pay 2 
 and Discard Kanji in order to gain another 
Action to use this turn!
You could play another Unrest, Discarding your final two cards 
to Pay for it, to be on the safe side far from Collapse. Or you 
could play Clans, allowing you to grab another 
. But instead 
you opt to use your bonus 
 to play the Region Kansai, gaining 
 and getting you closer to the 3-Region threshold necessary for 
a future play of Glory. You have the option to Garrison (see page 38) 
Clans or an Unrest, but you choose not to.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nara
3JPN14/24
 
b
C
d
Your turn is over, so let’s begin Clean-up. First you add a 
into the Market – you decide it should go on the Lagoon, which you 
hope to grab next turn via Clans. Then you remove all your 
from Shinto, Appeal to China, and your Power card. 5 
 tokens and 
 tokens are returned to your State card, and the extra 
is returned to the Supply.
Next, you need to decide which cards to Discard before Drawing back 
up to your hand size of 5. There are 3 cards still left in your deck, so 
you opt to Discard Unrest a and keep only Clans in your hand. This 
means you need to Draw 4 new cards, but after Drawing the last three 
of your Draw deck you need to reshuffle your Discard pile: you place a 
 token on your Nation deck and flip the top card (Nara) into your 
Discard pile b . Then you shuffle the Discard pile and create a new 
Draw deck C from which you take your final card d .
Since you were the last player of this round, all players now move on 
to the Solstice. Your new Metropolis gives the option to gain 1 
, 1 
, or Draw 1 card. You should probably choose to gain 
, since 
you have only 2 remaining and you are likely to want to spend them 
both in the near future to Exhaust your Power card’s ability again!

Optional Rules & Gameplay Variants
Practice mode (solo)
If you are learning the game, or you wish to familiarise yourself 
with a new Nation, Practice mode is the streamlined way to do 
that. It is a type of Solo mode (see page 28), but with no Bot to 
play against. This allows you to concentrate on understanding 
your own play, and not have to worry about possible distractions 
(like running the solo opponent). New players should try a 
 Nation first – in Horizons the Magyars and the 
Japanese are the most suitable for this.
Perform your Player setup (see page 10) and the 2-player 
Commons setup (see page 13) normally.
Exile (see page 37) the top 15 cards of the Main deck.
Put 12 
 tokens next to the Market.
Take your turn normally.
During Clean-up, first add a 
 from the pool created in 
step 3 on a card in the Market. Then, you may choose to 
Exile a card from the Market. (This simulates the ‘Market 
churn’ of a second player.)
Perform any Solstice effects (see page 16).
Repeat steps 4–6 until you have played 12 turns (when 
the special pool of progress tokens runs out), or you trigger 
game end through any normal card effect, such as Collapse.
If you score at least 50 victory points, you understand the rules 
and basic strategies enough to play “for real”. If you score at least 
90 victory points, you did something really well. If you want, you 
can challenge yourself to score even more.
Lowered Aggression Variant
If you want a less aggressive game but do not want to include the added complexity 
of the Trade Routes, we recommend this alteration to the Commons setup:
After step 5 (removing cards for lower player counts) add a new step:
5a. Find all the remaining Commons cards with a 
 icon in the bottom corner 
and put them aside for now. Proceed with the remaining cards to step 6 
(placing the Unrest pile).
After step 15, once the Market is set up, shuffle the cards you put aside into the 
Main deck. This way, Attack cards (see page 36) only enter the Market from 
the Main deck, delaying their appearance in the game.
This variant can be combined with the short variant below. This variant can 
also be applied to Imperium Classics/Legends, by setting aside all Commons 
 cards in a similar fashion.
Quick Setup Variant
For experienced players only. Instead of separating Market cards by suit, 
simply shuffle all Market cards together, create Small decks of the appropriate 
size, and deal an initial Market line-up. This variant can make it very 
difficult to find the specific suits that some civilisations rely upon in the early 
game (mostly 
).
Precious Cards Variant
During your Clean-up, you may not Discard any cards from your hand (see 
page 37). This variant changes the dynamics of Unrest management and card 
draw in interesting ways and makes increased hand size less beneficial.

Short Variant
If you want to reduce the playing time of Imperium, then the following variant 
will cut the duration of the game by about 15 minutes per player. This is not 
suitable for the Utopians nor the Cultists and there are special rules for the 
Atlanteans, Arthurians, Inuit, Martians, and the Polynesians.
Setup Changes
After setting up the Market, Exile the top 10 cards of the Main deck.
Put the top 2 cards from your Nation deck into your Discard pile 
(except for Atlanteans and Inuit, see below).
Nation specific 
setup changes
Atlanteans: choose a 
 
 to Develop (you do not have to 
Pay the Development cost), then choose one of your 
to remove from the game.
Arthurians: choose an impending Quest (not the 
Graal 
 ), Garrison it under King Arthur’s Court, and add 
the top card to your starting deck. This is in addition to the 
2 cards from your Nation deck added to your Discard pile 
detailed above.
Inuit: remove all your starting Resources 
( 
 ). Choose a Winter ( 
 card and a 
Summer ( 
 card and put both in your Discard pile.
Martians: remove 4 of your starting 
Polynesians: gain one of the cards added to your Discard pile 
as mana (choose randomly).
Solo Bot Setup Changes
Remove the bottom card of the Dynasty deck (see Solo 
mode setup, page 29). This is the card with the lowest 
victory point value.
Put the top card of the Dynasty deck into the Bot 
Discard pile.
If playing against the Arthurians, put a random 
(not the Graal) into the Bot Discard pile.
Gameplay Changes
When you add your Accession 
 card to your Discard pile, look through 
your Development 
 cards and choose one to remove from the game. 
(Skip this if playing with the Arthurians or the Polynesians.)
When Scoring is triggered, play the current round, including Solstice, 
then end the game (do not play another round).

per 10 
3WAG1A/23
Solstice: gain 2 
. For each 
have in play, gain 1 additional 
1 VP per 3 
 in play, 
except 
Tang
3TAN1A/27
Exhaust: discard 2 cards to gain 1 
End of solstice: if the game end has not 
been triggered, take a 
 in 
your history
Sassanids
3SAS1A/24
Exhaust: when triggering the 
profit of a 
, exhaust this card to 
break through for a 
3GUP1A/24
Exhaust: take a 
 from your discard pile OR trade.
7 cards
3ABB1A/23
Exhaust: If 
, spend 
an action to aquire a 
, spend an action to acquire 
Aksumites
3AKS1A/23
Exhaust: when you acquire or break 
through for a card in the market with at 
least 2 resources, exhaust this card 
3 VP if in 
Eastern Silk Road
3TAN4/27
Commerce: draw a card and acquire 
 (including from exiled cards).
Profit (3 
): Break through 
 x1
Catamarans
3UNC11/25
Exhaust: treat 1 
 as 4 
 for 
the rest of the turn.
Trade Routes Expansion 
 
Imperium: Horizons contains an optional expansion, Trade Routes. We 
recommend learning and playing the game without Trade Routes first, 
especially if you’re not already familiar with Imperium: Classics/Legends. 
Games with Trade Routes will tend to be longer, more complicated games with 
higher average scores and more explosive combos.
The Trade Routes expansion makes use of the new Resource, Goods 
, as 
well as new ways to spend your 
 tokens during your turn – and an extra 
 token to spend! You use Trade (see page 39) abilities to manipulate 
Commerce (see page 37) abilities to exchange 
 for other benefits, and Profit 
(see page 39) abilities to Profit from other players trading with you. New Trade 
Route 
 cards in the Market can be Acquired or Broken through for in new 
ways. All players begin with a powerful Merchants 
 card, which gives access 
to many of these interactions.
The Trade Routes expansion may be used with any set of Commons cards. 
But remember that the 
 cards are designed around Trade Route interactions, 
and thus can only be played when Trade Routes are being used. To play with the 
Trade Routes expansion, include the following five elements into your regular 
game setup (they are in blue Trade Routes text boxes in the setup sections of 
this rulebook):
Give each player a Merchants 
 card, which begins Merchants side 
face up in the Player area.
Give each player an additional 
 token, and 1 
 instead of the 
Add the Welcoming Trade Route to the Fame deck before selecting the 
correct number of cards. Note that games with Trade Routes have one 
more Fame card.
Remove all cards with the 
 icon from the Commons cards used.
 cards (remember to remove any 3+ or 4 cards if 
necessary) and add them to the Main deck and Small decks as described 
in Commons setup step 13 (see page 13).
REMEMBER: When using Trade Routes, all players gain an extra 
 token! 
All existing civilisations (from Classics, Legends, and of course Horizons) 
support playing with the Trade Routes expansion, including playing solo. Some 
Horizons civilisations with 
 on their Power Card are designed around Trade 
Route interactions, and thus can only be played if the Trade Routes expansion 
is used. These are:
•	 Abbasids
•	 Aksumites
•	 Guptas
•	 Sassanids
•	 Tang
•	 Wagadou

The Merchants 
 card is the primary source of the Trade keyword (see 
below). This card may be upgraded to its Merchant Empire side, to provide 
 icons, a way to Trade for Market cards, and another method of access to 
 deck.
Note that while the Merchants card can Exhaust to Acquire Trade Routes, the 
Merchant Empire card cannot!
Trade Routes
Some 
 cards are shuffled into the Main deck during setup, and others 
are placed face up under the 
 decks. Some civs even have 
their own 
Trade Routes cards may be Acquired from the Market with your Merchants 
 card, or with other cards which specify that you may Acquire or Break 
through for 
. As with all non 
 cards, Acquiring a 
 requires you to Take 
 into your hand.
 card from your hand, you may immediately resolve its 
Commerce effect. Doing so does not require a 
 the way activating Commerce 
effects via the Trade keyword does.
Trade & Commerce
When you activate the Trade keyword (usually through placing a 
 on your 
 card) you may do one of the following:
•	 Pay 1 
•	 Move 1 of your 
 to a 
 card in your Play area with fewer than 3 
 on it already, and resolve its Commerce effect.
•	 Add 1 
 from the Supply on a 
 card in an opponent’s play area 
with fewer than 3 
 on it already, perform its Commerce effect for 
yourself, then gain 1 
Profit
When a 
 card has 3 
 on it, no player may Trade with it until the Goods 
are removed. This is done through the Profit effect, which can be triggered by 
the owner of the card as an Action during their Activate turn. When they do, 
they spend a 
 token and move the 3 
 on the card into their Resource pool, 
resolve the Profit effect’s text, and then place the 
 card into their Discard 
pile unless otherwise specified.
Note that it is not mandatory to trigger Profit when a 
 card is full with 3 
 tokens; you may keep it in play holding onto the Goods if you don’t have 
the Action to spare, but it will be effectively useless.

3UNR3/12
 
River Delta
3REG4/14
You MAY pay 2 
 to trade. 
Warfare
3UNC5/25
Pay 3 
. Each other player takes a 
Choose: break through for a 
 and gain 
 OR break through for a 
 and each 
other player abandons a 
3 cards in 
Scribes
3CIV5/18
Free play. Choose: put a card from your 
hand into your history OR exile 2 cards 
from your history to gain 1 action.
 
Khmer Empire
3TRI9/13
. You MAY 
free play a 
. You MAY return a 
1 VP per 2 
Inuit
3INU1A/25
Passive: when you gain 3 or fewer 
gain 1 additional 
End of solstice: flip your state card.
INUIT
trigger
Effect
Return this card to the unrest pile.
 and trigger it.
 . Reveal the top 2 cards of the bot deck, discard any 
 cards, and 
return the rest to the top of the bot deck in the same order.
 . Exile a card from the market. If this card has 
 , discard the top 
card of the bot deck and gain 1 
Reveal the top of the main deck. If a 
 is revealed, resolve it; if the card is not 
 , put it into history.
Discard the top card of the bot deck. Gain 1 
 the bot has in play. 
Spend 2 
 (including from exile). You MAY draw a card.
Other
 from bot discard; if unable, resolve a 
 from bot discard; if still 
unable, gain 1 
 . Put this card into history.
S
During bot clean-up, place 1 
 marker on slots 4 and higher (5 and 
higher if Sovereign+) instead of cards, then flip this state card.
In solo mode, you play your own civilization against an opponent, called the 
Bot. The Bot’s turn is substantially different than your own, as it moves through 
a series of cards and responses dictated by its oversized State card. It also has 
new keywords, and some keywords work differently for the Bot.
If this is your first time playing the game, you need to read the multiplayer rules 
first. If you don’t want to bother with running the Bot on your first play, check 
out the ‘Practice Mode (Solo)’ under Gameplay variants on page 24.
Solo mode Ruleset
Player and Commons setup is identical to the multiplayer rules. 
Use the 2-player setup for the Commons decks. The Bot does 
not use 
 tokens, 
 tokens, or a (regular sized) State card.

Setup
Place Slot markers 1–5 below the cards in the Market, so that each card 
has one marker below it. The markers should be placed in ascending 
order, from left to right. Slot marker 6 can be returned to the box unless 
playing in Supreme Ruler mode (see page 33).
Choose a nation for the Bot and take all the associated cards, as indicated 
by the colour in the bottom left corner, placing them in a Bot area next 
to your Play area. Place the Solstice token inbetween your Player area 
and the Bot area.
Add any 
 cards to the Commons cards. Return any 3+ and 4 
cards to the box.
Place the Bot’s 
 card in its play area. The only function of the Bot’s 
 card is to store the Bot’s History. All symbols and text on the Bot’s 
Power card (including Scoring) are ignored. 
Note that the Bot always has a History, even if the corresponding 
nation has special rules about it, such as the Atlanteans, Inuit, 
Polynesians, and Vikings.
Create the Bot’s Dynasty deck:
a) Sort the 
 cards in victory point order and place them in a 
face-down pile near the 
 card, with the higher value cards 
at the top. Treat all 
VP cards as having a value of 5 and treat 
all 
VP cards as being worth the highest value. If multiple 
cards have the same value, determine their order randomly. 
b) Place the 
 card face up on top of the stack of 
c) Shuffle the cards and place them in a face-down stack on 
Shuffle the remaining cards (i.e., the Bot’s unmarked starting cards) and 
place one card face down below each Slot marker. The rest forms the Bot 
deck. Place the Bot deck next to the 
Find the oversized Bot State card corresponding to the nation you’re 
playing against. Place it next to the Bot’s deck with the S side face up.
Depending on Bot difficulty level, it either will or will not get starting 
Resources. Check difficulty levels on page 32 for what these are.
If playing with the Trade Routes expansion, place the Merchants 
 card besides their State card to indicate its Merchant state. 
You will also need the Trade Routes table (see back page). All 
symbols and text on the Bot’s Merchant Power card (including 
Scoring) are ignored. 
If you are playing against the Arthurians, Atlanteans, Cultists, 
Inuit, Martians, Mayans, Polynesians, Utopians, or Vikings 
refer to their nation description for specific changes to 
their Bot setup.
How to Play
As with a multiplayer game, the solo game is played in a variable number of 
rounds. In each round you take your turn normally, the Bot takes a turn, then 
the round ends and you resolve Solstice (the Bot ignores the Solstice effects). 
Bot turns
First, roll the die and place it on top of the face-down Bot card in the 
corresponding Slot. You won’t resolve that card this turn. If you roll a number 
that does not correspond to a Slot, set the die aside. 
Then resolve the remaining face-down Bot cards, moving from the lowest- to 
the highest-numbered Slot.
Resolving Bot Cards
To resolve a card, flip it face up and consult the table on the Bot’s State card. 
Do not resolve any of the text on the card itself.
When resolving a card, complete the topmost effect in the table that matches 
the card. A card matches if the name, type, or suit is the same as the trigger 
listed in the table. 
Note 
every 
table 
starts 
row 
resolve 
usually by Returning it, but some civilisations perform additional effects 
while Returning it.
•	 All the contents of the row are considered part of the same effect.
•	 Any part of the effect written in bold refers to you. All other text refers 
to the Bot.
•	 If no part of the effect can be resolved, find the next matching trigger 
instead. If some or all of the effect can be resolved, resolve as much of 
the effect as possible. If any part (even if just putting the resolved card 
into History) is resolved, the effect is considered resolved.
•	 Unless the effect specifies otherwise, place the card in the Bot’s 
Discard pile once an effect has been completed.
•	 You will only ever resolve one effect for a card, even if it matches 
multiple triggers.
•	 The Bot can resolve 
 cards regardless of their current State 
card. Simply follow the chart and use the relevant text.
•	 The Bot never spends 
 in place of 
Bots and Trading
If playing with the Trade Routes expansion, once all the cards 
in the card Slots have been resolved, the Bot resolves the first 
applicable effect shown on the bottom of the Trade Routes table. 
There are two separate lists depending on whether the Bot 
currently has Merchants or Merchant Empire face up. 
•	 When instructed to “resolve Profits, where able”, resolve 
the effect shown on the right column of the Trade Routes 
table for every 
 the Bot has in play that has 3 
on it. The Bot gains those 
 tokens and the card is put into 
the Bot’s History. If multiple cards meet this requirement, 
resolve the one that was played most recently first.
•	 If instructed to Trade, see the Trade keyword’s resolution 
for the Bot on page 31.
•	 You may Trade with 
 cards the Bot has in play normally. 
You use the Commerce effect printed on the card (as if it was 
in play by a human opponent), instead of the effects in the 
Bot’s Trade Routes table.

Bot Clean-Up
Once all effects have been resolved, add a 
 to the market card above 
the unresolved card. If you rolled a 6, do not add a token.
If you’re playing against the Carthaginian Bot, 
add 2 
If you’re playing against the Gupta Bot, add 1 
If you’re playing against the Qin or Tang Bots 
add 1 
If you’re playing against the Wagadou Bot, add 1 
Move the unresolved card to Slot 1, keeping it face down. 
Fill the remaining Slots with cards from the Bot deck, face down. 
If you’re playing against the Inuit, refer to their nation 
description for special Clean-up rules.
If the Bot deck is empty and you would normally add a card from the 
Bot deck to a Slot, move the top card from the Dynasty deck into the 
Bot Discard pile and then shuffle the Bot Discard pile to form a new 
Bot deck. Then continue adding cards to Slots as normal. This might 
happen multiple times on a turn (typically if both the Bot deck and the 
Bot Discard pile are empty).
If you’re playing against the Cultists or Utopians, there are 
special rules for resolving their reshuffles. See pages 42 and 
48 for details.
When the 
 is added to the Bot Discard pile, flip its State card to the 
other side (except where noted otherwise – Arthurians, Polynesians, 
Taino, Vikings). From this point forward, use the table on the other side 
of the State card.
Changes to Gameplay 
during Solo Play
All rules in the multiplayer game for taking your turn, end of round, and 
resolving cards apply, except for the changes listed in this section. 
New keywords
Add 1 Resource to the market card in 
 slot
Take the indicated Resource from the Supply and place it on the card in the 
Market in the Slot corresponding to the rolled number. If the slot does not exist, 
no Resource is placed.
Play
The Bot only has 
	
in play. 
When instructed to play such a card, put it in the Bot’s Play area and do not 
Discard it at the end of the action’s resolution. The text effect of the card is still 
ignored for the Bot’s purposes.
Resolve
When resolving a card, complete the topmost effect in the table on the Bot 
State card with a matching trigger, the same way as if the card were revealed in 
the Bot’s card row. Discard the card at the end of the resolution if it does not 
instruct you otherwise (by putting the card into play or into History).
If an effect instructs you to resolve the top card of the Bot deck or the Dynasty 
deck and the deck in question is empty, do not reshuffle the deck (since the Bot 
never reshuffles outside of its Clean-up). Instead, the Bot gains 2 
 (similarly 
to how it would as a result of a “failed” Break through).
Trigger 
When triggering a 
, the bot resolves the Commerce effect in 
the second column of the Trade Routes table (see back page) 
rather than the effect printed on the Trade Route card. The 
 
remains in play afterwards.
Changes to Card Effects
If the Bot is forced or permitted to Draw a card by your effects, take the top 
card from the Bot deck if able and place it into the Bot Discard pile. However, 
unless indicated otherwise by its Bot State card, it is only during its Clean-up 
step that the Bot reshuffles its deck or adds cards to its deck or its Discard pile 
from the Dynasty deck.
The Bot ignores any of your effects that would make it Discard a card, 
even if the card to be Discarded was given to the Bot as an earlier part of 
that same effect.
The Bot ignores any of your effects that would allow it to Return 
If any of your effects Gain the Bot Resources, they are Gained normally. If 
Resources would be placed on the Bot’s 
 cards in play, they are immediately 
put in the Bot’s Resource pool instead. 
Any effect the Bot resolves that Gives (see page 38) you 
, Steals (see 
page 39) from you, causes you to Discard cards, or forces you to Abandon (see 
page 36) or Recall (see page 39) anything, is considered a 
, regardless of 
any icons on the card. If you have an ability that allows you to cancel or ignore 
, you can use it to stop the negative effect.
If the Bot’s effect requires the top card of its Bot deck to be Discarded when 
the deck is empty, that part of the action cannot be resolved, since as mentioned 
above, the Bot only reshuffles during Clean-up.

Changes to 
Keywords for Bots
Abandon 
If the Bot Abandons a 
 card, put one of its 
 cards in play into the Bot 
Discard pile. If there are multiple 
 in play, the Bot Abandons the one that 
was played most recently.
Acquire and Break through
When the Bot Acquires or Breaks through for a card, it will always choose the 
card in the Market that is worth the most points. In the case of a tie, it chooses 
the card with the most total tokens (
). If there is still a 
tie, it chooses the card in the lowest-numbered Slot. 
If the Bot Breaks through and there are no eligible cards in the Market, it 
takes the top card from the appropriate deck. If it Breaks through for a 
or a suit for which the appropriate deck is empty, reveal cards from the Main 
deck as normal. If there is no card of the appropriate suit in the Main deck, the 
Bot instead gains 2 
Gaining Cards
When the Bot gains cards (including through Acquire, Break through, Taking 
, or as a result of your Attack), add them to the top of the Bot deck 
in the order they were gained, with the card gained first at the bottom. If the 
Bot Acquires a card and Takes a 
 card as a result, it gains the card first and 
 card second.
Exile
If the Bot Exiles a card from the Market, it places the card from the lowest-
numbered Slot in the Market into the Exile pile.
The Bot will never Exile a card with one or more tokens on it. If all cards in 
the Market have tokens on them, it does not Exile a card.
Recall 
If the Bot Recalls a 
 card, put one of its 
 cards in play on top of the 
Bot deck. If there are multiple 
 in play, the Bot Recalls the one that was 
played most recently.
Swap (Martian Bot only)
When the Martian Bot Swaps (see page 39) a Gadget with a 
matching suited card from the Market, use the tie-breaking 
rules from above (‘Acquire and Break through’) to choose 
between multiple possible options. The Bot does not Gain 
Resources nor Take a 
 from the Market during the Swap. 
The gained card is placed in the Bot’s Discard pile (as explicitly 
mentioned in the row’s instructions).
Trade
The Bot selects a 
 to Trade with. It ignores any 
already has 3 
 on it. If multiple 
 cards are in play (yours or 
its own) and available to trade with, it uses the following priority 
list to choose:
It selects the 
 with more tokens on it.
It selects its own 
 over yours.
It selects the 
 listed earliest on the Trade Routes table 
(see back page).
If it selects one of your 
 cards, add 1 
 onto the card from 
the Supply, the Bot gains 1 
 and triggers the card.
If it selects one of its own 
 cards, add 1 
 onto the card from 
the Supply, and the Bot triggers the card.
If no 
 is available to Trade with, it spends 1 
, if 
able, to Gain 1 
If no 
 is available to Trade with, and it has no 
nothing happens.
REMINDER: When the Bot triggers a 
, it uses the effect in the 
Trade Routes table’s middle column, ignoring the card’s text.
Changes to Specific Cards
King of Kings
If the Bot would gain the King of Kings card (regardless of which side is 
showing), and is a 
 state, it instead gains 6 
If the Bot is a 
 state, it instead gains 3 
 and Draws the top card from 
the Dynasty deck, placing it on top of the Bot deck. This triggers the end of the 
game. If the Bot would gain a 
 card after it has already triggered the King 
of Kings, nothing happens.
Victory Points
Whenever determining the victory point value of a card from the Bot’s 
perspective (which card to Acquire, sorting the Dynasty deck, and final Scoring):
•	 Cards with fixed 
 values are worth the indicated value 
(including possibly negative values).
•	 Treat all 
VP cards as worth 5 victory points.
•	 Treat all 
VP cards as being worth the higher value. For example, a 
card noting “8 VP if in History, 3 VP otherwise” scores 8 victory points 
for the Bot, regardless of where it is found, while a card noting “-4 VP 
unless in History” scores 0 victory points regardless.
•	 For cards in the Market, treat each 
 on cards as adding one victory 
point to the card’s value.

Game End
The game ends when either Scoring or Collapse is triggered.
You trigger Scoring via the same mechanisms as in the multiplayer game. In 
addition, Scoring is triggered if one of the following criteria is met:
There are no more cards in the Bot’s Dynasty deck.
There are no more cards in the Main deck.
The Bot would gain King of Kings 
The Cultist Bot successfully triggers the Clean-up step of its 
 State card.
The Utopian Bot successfully triggers the Shangri-La line of 
its journey table.
Note that other end game conditions that certain civilisations may have when 
played by a human player (for example the Polynesians gaining the last 
Development before their 
 card is gained, the Arthurians playing the Graal, 
etc.) are not used when those civilisations are played by a Bot.
Collapse is triggered if there are ever no cards left in the Unrest pile.
Scoring
When Scoring is triggered, complete the current round as normal. Then play 
one final round, including resolving Solstice effects.
Add up your victory points in the same way as in the multiplayer game. 
Then calculate the Bot’s victory points:
Every 
 is worth 1 victory point for the Bot.
Every 10 
 in any combination is worth 1 victory point for the 
Bot. Each 
 counts as 5 
 for the purposes of this counting. 
Tokens left on the Bot’s 
 cards are not included in this count.
Score every card in the Bot’s hand, Play area, Bot deck, Discard pile, and 
History (see the previous page for counting victory points). Do not score 
for cards in the Bot’s Dynasty deck. Do not score the Bot’s 
 Card(s).
The Cultist Bot scores +1 victory point for each 
instead of -2 each.
If you scored more points than the Bot, you win.
If you scored equal to or less than the Bot, the Bot wins
Collapse
If the game end is triggered by Collapse, you lose – even if the Bot has 
more 
 cards than you.
If you are playing as the Cultists, and the Chaos pile is empty 
when Collapse is triggered, you win as usual.
Difficulty levels
Each Bot can be played against on five separate difficulty levels, listed 
below from easiest to hardest. Each difficulty level changes some of the rules 
described in this rulebook. We recommend you start with Chieftain level for 
your first game. 
Chieftain
During the Bot’s setup, do not place the Slot 5 or Slot 6 markers. If the die roll 
is 5 or 6, set the die aside. 
On Chieftain difficulty, the Bot resolves 3 or 4 effects on each turn.
If playing against the Cultist, the Bot scores 0 victory 
points for each 
Warlord
The same as Chieftain level, but at the end of the Bot’s turn, after refilling the 
Slots, place the top card of the Bot deck in the Bot Discard pile. 
On Warlord difficulty, the Bot resolves 3 or 4 effects each turn.
Imperator
No change to the normal Bot rules.
On Imperator difficulty, the Bot resolves 4 or 5 effects each turn.
Sovereign
The same as Imperator level, but during setup give the Bot 3 
, 2 
, and 1 
If playing with the Trade Routes expansion, give the Bot 1 
 
instead of the 
The Bot scores 1 victory point for every 5 
 in any combination, 
rather than for every 10.
The Bot scores 1 victory point for every 
If playing against the Inuit, do not place a 
 token under the 
number 4 Slot marker at the end of Summer 
 turns.
On Sovereign difficulty, the Bot resolves 4 or 5 effects each turn.

Overlord
The same as Sovereign level, but during Bot setup, add Slot marker 6 to the 
right of Slot marker 5. During setup and during the Bot’s turn, place a card face 
down below this Slot marker. If you roll a 6 at the start of Bot’s turn, place the 
die on the card in Slot 6 as normal, but do not add any tokens to the Market 
during the Bot’s Clean-up (see page 30).
If playing against the Cultist, the Bot scores +2 victory 
points for each 
On Overlord difficulty, the Bot resolves 5 effects each turn.
Campaign Mode
Campaign mode allows you to play a series of linked solo games against Bots 
that increase in difficulty. Your objective in campaign mode is to win five games 
before you lose four games.
To start a campaign, choose a nation; you will play as this nation in every 
game in the campaign.
Write your name and the name of your nation on an empty campaign 
log (see page 50).
Play your first game against a Bot on Chieftain difficulty. 
You may not choose to play against a nation you have already won against. 
However, you can play multiple campaign games against the same nation until 
you win against it.
If you win a campaign game
Record the date and your score in the campaign log. Then, do one of the following:
Select one non-
 Commons card in your History, Deck, 
Discard pile, or Hand that you gained during this game. Write 
the name of the card in the campaign log and add it to your 
starting deck for the rest of the campaign.
Select one card in your Starting deck. Write the name of the card 
in brackets in the campaign log and return it to the box. It will 
not be used for the rest of the campaign.
Regardless of your choice, on your next campaign game, play against the Bot at 
a difficulty level that is one higher than in the game you just played.
If you win against a Bot on Overlord difficulty (your fifth win), you win 
the campaign.
If you lose a campaign game
Record the date and your score in the campaign log and increase your number 
of losses by one. On the next campaign game you play, start with twice as many 
Resources as normal (6 
, 4 
, and 2 
If playing with the Trade Routes expansion, you will start with 2 
 instead of 2 
If you win the next game, go back to your normal Resources.
If you lose the next game, do not double this bonus.
If you ever reach 4 losses, you lose the campaign.
Adjusting Campaign difficulty
If you wish for a more challenging campaign, try starting on a difficulty higher 
than Chieftain.
Supreme Ruler Mode
If you are regularly winning campaigns and wish for a more challenging mode, 
try Supreme Ruler Mode. 
Instead of playing against Bots of increasing difficulty, all bots are at the 
Supreme Ruler difficulty level.
Supreme Ruler level works in the same way as Overlord level, but every 
time the Bot Returns a 
 it also gains a 
When setting up the game add 2 more 
 to the Commons deck (i.e., 10 
Commons 
 cards instead of 8 for the first game of the campaign).
If you win, set aside a 
 card from the Commons deck for the remainder of 
the campaign. If you win against the Bot on the Supreme Ruler difficulty five 
times, you win a grand campaign! 
If you lose, return one set-aside 
 card to the Commons deck if able, then 
follow the normal procedure for losing a game.
This difficulty level was considered too hard to be included in 
the standard rules.

Caracol
3MAY21/28
Exhaust: choose: draw a 
 from your 
discard pile OR gain 1 
3MAY20/28
1 VP if in 
Stone Mask
3MAY12/28
Draw up to 3 cards if able. Then return 
a card to the top of your deck.
Example Bot Turn
You are playing against the Mayan Bot on Imperator difficulty. Its play is 
controlled by the row of cards and its State card, which gives specific detailed 
instructions for resolving each of the 5 face-down cards dealt to the Bot.
At the start of the Bot’s turn, you roll for the Bot: the result is a 2, so you 
place the Bot’s die on the card in Slot 2 – that card will be ignored during 
resolution. Had you rolled a 6, then all five cards would have been resolved, as 
no card would have been covered by the die.
Slot #1 is revealed first: it’s Caracol. The first 
row it matches is the 
 row, so the 
Bot gains 1 
 token, and Caracol is placed 
in the Bot’s Discard pile. Slot #2 is covered 
by the die, so it is not revealed.
Slot #3 is next: it is an Unrest 
card. This is the first row on 
every Bot State card, and you’re 
instructed to simply Return it to 
the Unrest pile. Easy.
Slot #4 is revealed to be a Stone Mask. This 
has its own line near the top of the Bot State 
card, instructing you to Discard the top card 
of the Bot deck. However, it just so happens 
that the Bot deck is empty at present, and 
thus no part of the instructions on this row 
can be performed.
It is fine to only resolve part of a line, but 
if the entire line cannot be resolved you 
must move down the list to find the next row 
which is valid for the card. In this case it is 
the very next row, because Stone Mask is 
also a 
The first sentence of these new instructions tells you to Discard the top 2 
cards of the Bot deck – which is still impossible.
The next sentence says to Return a 
 from the Discard pile, if able – but 
there is no 
 in the Discard pile! 
The third sentence says the Bot gains 1 
, and at least that can be done – 
so there is no need to move to another row, as you were able to resolve at least 
part of the instructions. The Bot gains 1 
 and the Stone Mask is placed in 
the Bot’s Discard pile.

3UNR5/12
Chultuns
3MAY26/28
Exhaust: discard a 
3UNR7/12
 
Elders
3UNC3/25
Choose: acquire a 
 OR break through 
 and all other players gain 1 
 
Scrubland
3REG8/14
Solstice: draw a card, if able. Place a 
card on the top of your deck.
2 VP if 
in history
 
Golden Mask
3UNC24/25
Choose: draw a card from your discard 
pile OR gain 1 
 OR trade.
Slot #5 is revealed to be Chultuns. This card triggers 
 row near the bottom of the Bot State card. 
This requires a 
 to be returned from the Discard 
pile – which is certainly possible. The Stone Mask 
that was Discarded earlier is now returned to the 
top of the Bot deck – the deck was empty, and now 
contains exactly 1 card: the Stone Mask.
Now the Bot must Acquire a 
To do this, you must look at all matching card types 
(in this case all cards) in the Market and calculate 
their victory point value for the Bot. So, looking at 
the Market the options are (once their 
are included in the count):
When there is a tie, the first tiebreaker is to favour the card(s) with the most 
tokens (of any type) on them. In this case that means that Elders is the 
preferred choice, so the Bot Acquires Elders. You move the 
 token to the 
Bot’s Resource pool, then place Elders on top of the Bot deck. The Bot also 
Takes the Unrest that was beneath it in the Market – placing that Unrest on 
top of Elders. 
Having finished the Acquire instruction, the final instruction for this line is 
“Put this card into History.” So Chultuns is placed into the Bot’s History, and 
a new card is dealt to the Market to replace Elders.
0 victory points
1 victory point
Now that all of the Bot’s cards have been resolved, it is time to move on to the 
Bot’s Clean-up.
•	 A 
 token is added onto Scrubland in the Market above Slot #2, as 
this is the unresolved card. 
•	 The card in the #2 Slot is slid into the #1 Slot. 
•	 The empty Slots are filled with new cards from the Bot deck. Although 
they are dealt face-down, you can know that the #2 Slot will get 
Unrest, the #3 Slot will get Elders, and the #4 Slot will get the Stone 
Mask card. 
•	 The Bot deck is now empty again, so at this point you add the top card 
of the Bot’s Dynasty deck to the Discard pile, shuffle, and form a new 
Bot deck to Draw from. The identity of that #5 card will be unknown 
to you until the Bot’s next turn!

Keywords
ALL PLAYERS / 
ALL OTHER PLAYERS
Cards that refer to “all players” or “each player” 
include you as well.
Cards that refer to “all other players” or “each other 
player” do not include you.
ABANDON
 cards in play can be Abandoned.
Note that while 
 cards (which have the 
 
symbol) remain in play like 
 cards, they 
are not 
, and thus cannot be Abandoned.
To Abandon a card, place it in your Discard pile.
If the card has a Garrisoned card underneath it, 
that card is also Abandoned. If the card has Resource 
tokens on it, move those Resource tokens to your 
Resource pool before Abandoning the card. If a card 
with a 
 token is Abandoned, do not move the 
 
token back to your State card. 
Some cards let you Abandon a Garrisoned card. 
In that case simply place the card in question into 
your Discard pile, without Abandoning the card it 
was Garrisoned under.
REMINDER: Only 
 cards may be Recalled or 
Abandoned. NOT 
 cards!
ACQUIRE 
Select a card from the Market of the indicated suit. 
Gain any Resource tokens from that card and add 
them to your Resource pool. Add the card to your 
hand. If there is a 
 card underneath it, add that 
card to your hand as well.
After Acquiring the card, draw the top card from 
the appropriate deck (or the Main deck, if you took a 
card from the first two slots or if the appropriate Small 
deck is empty) to replace it. Unless it’s a 
place a 
 card from the Unrest pile underneath it.
If a card allows you to Acquire multiple cards, 
fully resolve the Acquire effect, including replacing 
the card in the Market, for each card you Acquire. 
You may Acquire newly drawn cards if they are of 
the indicated suit.
Note that face-up 
 cards above the Market 
board are not in the Market. They are moved 
into the Market (in lieu of drawing a new 
card) when the last card of their respective 
Small deck is taken from the Market.
Some cards will allow you to include cards in the 
Exile pile when selecting a card to Acquire. If you 
Acquire any card except a 
 from the Exile pile 
this way, you must Take a 
 from the Unrest pile. 
Some cards will limit your options to only cards in the 
Exile pile (e.g. “Acquire an Exiled … ”).
REMINDER: If you Acquire a card from Exile, you 
also Take a 
 card (unless it was a 
).
ACTION (GAINING AND SPENDING)
When a card effect lets you Gain an Action, place 
 token from the Supply on your State card, 
even if that would take you above 3 
your State card. (During Clean-up, you always reset 
to 3 
 tokens.)
When a card effect requires you to Spend a 
number of Actions, remove that many 
from your State card. If you do not have enough 
tokens, you cannot resolve that card effect.
ADD A RESOURCE
Add a resource from the Supply to the target 
area or card.
ATTACK 
When you play a card with a 
 symbol, it will 
have a detrimental effect on all other players. If you 
are unable to resolve this effect in full, resolve it as 
much as possible.
Some cards protect players against 
They let their owner choose to ignore some or all of 
the effects of a 
 card that targets them.
You can only play 
 cards if your State card 
shows the 
You can have a 
 card in your Play area and 
use its Exhaust ability, even if your State card shows 
another symbol, such as 
You can Acquire and Break through for 
even if your State card shows another state symbol.
When a card refers to “if 
”, that effect can 
only be resolved (or that option can only be chosen) 
if your State card shows the 
BREAK THROUGH 
If more than one suit is listed, first declare the suit you 
will Break through for. Then do one of the following:
Option 1: Select any face-up card of that suit from 
the Market and add it to your hand. If you choose 
this option, first gain all Resource tokens from that 
card into your Resource pool. Next take the card into 
your hand and put any 
 card underneath it back 
in the Unrest pile. Then Draw the top card from 
the appropriate deck (or the Main deck, if you took 
a card from the first two slots or if the appropriate 
Small deck is depleted) to replace the card you 
have taken. Place a 
underneath it unless it’s a 
Note that face-up 
 cards above the Market 
board are not in the Market.
Option 2: If Breaking through for a 
take the top face-down card of the respective Small 
deck and add it to your hand.
Option 3: If Breaking through for a suit when the 
respective Small deck contains no face-down cards, 
or for a 
 (which do not have their own deck), 
reveal cards one by one from the top of the Main 
deck until you find a card of your declared suit. Take 
that card and add it to your hand, then shuffle all the 
other revealed cards into the Main deck. If you do 
not find a card of the declared suit, gain 2 

Option 4: If Breaking through for a 
one or more 
 cards are visible above the 
Market board (i.e. they are not covered by 
their appropriate decks), take one of these 
cards and add it to your hand. If no such 
cards are available, search the Main deck as 
described in Option 3.
Cards that trigger when you Acquire them do not 
trigger when you Break through, even if you choose 
Option 1 from above.
Some cards will allow you to include cards in the 
Exile pile in Option 1. Some cards will limit your 
options to only cards in the Exile pile (e.g., “Break 
through for an Exiled … ”).
REMINDER: If you Break through for a 
, you may NOT do so from the Main deck 
until the corresponding Small deck has run out.
CHOOSE
Resolve one of the options following this keyword. 
The options are all listed as part of a single sentence, 
separated by capital OR. Any full sentence following 
the list of options is resolved regardless of your choice.
commerce
All 
 cards have a Commerce effect, which 
can be triggered in one of two ways:
 card from your 
hand, trigger the card’s Commerce 
effect immediately.
When you trigger a Trade ability, you 
may trigger the Commerce effect of a 
 card that is in play with fewer than 
 tokens on it instead of Paying 1 
To trigger a Commerce effect of your own 
 
card, move one of your own 
 to that card.
To trigger a Commerce effect on an 
opponent’s 
 card, add 1 
 from the 
Supply to the opponent’s card, and gain one 
 for yourself.
DEVELOP
Pay the Development cost shown on a chosen 
 
card in your Development area and put it in your 
Discard pile. There is no order to the cards in your 
Development area; you may Look through the cards 
there and select any of them.
When this keyword appears as a card effect, you 
may resolve it even if there is a 
 token in your 
Development area, and resolving it does not require 
you to place a 
 token in your Development area.
The Arthurians, Cultists, Utopians, and 
Vikings have no Development area and thus 
may never Develop.
DISCARD
Place the card in your Discard pile.
DRAW CARD(S)
Draw the indicated number of cards from your Draw 
deck. If you need to Draw more cards than you have 
left in your Draw deck, Draw as many as you can, 
then reshuffle your Draw deck (see page 16) and 
continue Drawing cards.
If the Draw ability specifies a location other than 
your Draw deck, all Drawn cards come from that 
location instead. Cards Drawn from face-down decks 
always come from the top, but when Drawing cards 
from a face-up pile (Exiled cards, Discard, etc), you 
can select which of the cards to Draw.
DRAW CARD(S) IF ABLE
When an effect specifies that a player Draws cards 
“if able”, that means that the effect does not trigger a 
reshuffle. When the Draw deck runs out, you simply 
stop Drawing cards and move on to the next effect. If 
your Draw deck is empty, you do not Draw any cards.
EMPIRE 
You can only play 
 cards if your State card 
shows the 
You can have a 
 card in your Play area and use 
its Exhaust ability, even if your State card is showing 
another symbol, such as 
You can Acquire and Break through for 
even if your State card is showing another symbol.
When a card refers to “if 
”, that effect can 
only be resolved (or that option can only be chosen) 
if your State card shows the 
EXHAUST
You can only use an Exhaust ability on your own 
turn, unless the card specifies otherwise. You can 
never use Exhaust abilities during Solstice or during 
Revolt or Innovate turns. Putting a card into play 
does not trigger its Exhaust ability.
Note that when playing with the Trade Routes 
expansion all players receive an additional 
 token on their State card during setup.
To use an Exhaust ability, move a 
 token from 
your State card onto the card with the Exhaust 
keyword. If you have no 
 tokens on your State 
card, you may not use an Exhaust ability.
If a card already has a 
 token on it, you may 
not use the Exhaust ability shown on that card.
Fully resolve the effect indicated after the Exhaust 
keyword. Some Exhaust abilities specify a cost. If 
you cannot Pay the specified cost, you may not use 
the Exhaust ability. 
You may use an Exhaust ability on a card 
already in your play area with a state symbol such 
as 
, regardless of which symbol shows on 
If an Exhaust ability responds to an effect you or 
another player resolves (such as “when gaining 
 
from a 
” or “when an opponent Takes a 
”) 
the Exhaust ability happens as soon as the triggering 
effect is finished. If the current effect is on a card with 
multiple sentences, the Exhaust ability is resolved 
after the current sentence is finished but before the 
next sentence begins.
EXILE
Choose an eligible card from those specified by the 
effect and place it in the Exile pile, next to the 
 
symbol on the Market Board.
If you Exile a card from the Market, return any 
 cards underneath it to the Unrest pile. Then 
draw a new card from the appropriate Small deck (or 
the Main deck, if the appropriate deck is depleted) 
to replace it. Place a 
underneath it, unless it’s a 
You may never Exile a card with one or more tokens 
on it but such a card may be Swapped into Exile. 
Some 
let 
Acquire 
Break 
through for cards in the Exile pile. To do so, 
take a card of your choice of the specified type 
from the Exile pile. If you Acquire a non-
 
card in this way, also Take a 
 card from the 
Unrest pile.

FIND
Search 
following 
areas 
for 
card(s) 
specified in this order:
Your hand
Your Discard pile
Your Draw deck
Your Nation deck (excluding your 
 card). 
Some cards may explicitly instruct you to only search 
in some of these areas, or to include 
 cards in play 
or cards in your History.
If you do not Find the specified card, nothing 
happens. If you Find the specified card, stop 
searching and reveal it. The original card will tell you 
where you should place it.
If the card indicates a choice (for example, “Find 
”), you may search all four of the areas listed 
above and choose one eligible card to reveal. Return 
the other cards to the places where you found them.
Whenever you finish searching your Draw deck 
or your Nation deck, you must shuffle it. When 
shuffling your Nation deck, leave the 
 card at the 
bottom of the deck.
FREE PLAY
Do not remove a 
 token from your State card 
to play this card. You can play this card even if you 
have no 
 tokens left on your State card. You 
cannot Free play the same card more than once 
in the same turn.
Cards without the Free play keyword may be 
Free played via effects on other cards only once in a 
turn, but may be played normally (for an Action cost) 
any number of times.
Note that Free play does not make the effect of 
the card free, it merely removes the Action cost. For 
example, if an effect allows you to Free play a 
you still have to Pay 1 
 or 3 
, or Discard 2 
cards to Return said 
REMINDER: You cannot Free play the same card 
more than once in the same turn.
GAINING 
 FROM 
 IN PLAY
On your turn, you can Exhaust a card with this text 
when a 
 card in play is used to Gain 
This may be through its own or another card’s effect 
(even if the 
 is not relevant to that effect).
This is most likely to trigger when you use 
Prosperity, Nomads or similar cards that generate 
 from 
 cards which may have the indicated 
icon. However, it can also be triggered from cards with 
the indicated icon in play (e.g. Port, Bohio, Qarmaq), 
or cards Recalling/Abandoning the indicated icon 
as a cost (e.g. Boats, Water Mill, Altar) in order to 
Gain 
, even if the 
 comes from the Market 
(Trading Ships, Dredging the Tigris).
When using the Trade Routes expansion, 
it may be triggered if Trading with or 
Profiting from a 
 that has the indicated 
icon like Nile Corridor or using Trading Post 
to Trade with any 
 as long as these Gain 
you a 
 in any way.
GARRISON
Take a card from your hand and place it in your play 
area face up underneath the card with the Garrison 
keyword. The card underneath is now considered 
Garrisoned. Some effects might let you Garrison 
a card underneath a third unrelated card that is 
already in play. 
A card can have multiple cards Garrisoned 
underneath it. Some effects might specify the type of 
card that can be Garrisoned.
A Garrisoned card is not considered to be in your 
Play area, though it is still scored at the end of the 
game. You cannot Discard or play a Garrisoned card, 
and you cannot use its Exhaust or Solstice abilities. 
If a Garrisoned card is underneath a card that is 
Abandoned, Recalled, Exiled, put into History, 
Sunk, put into Legends, etc, do the same to the 
Garrisoned card. However, if the Garrisoned card 
itself is specifically targeted by such an effect, the 
card under which it was Garrisoned remains in play.
Garrisoned cards are public information. 
Some cards explicitly note that they cannot be 
Garrisoned under 
 cards, or at all.
GIVE A CARD
Choose a card in your hand and Give it to an opponent. 
The opponent puts the given card into their hand.
HISTORY
All cards underneath your Power card are considered 
your History. When an effect instructs you to place 
a card into your History, place a card (from your 
hand, unless indicated otherwise) underneath 
your Power card.
Cards in your History are out of play, and they 
cannot be interacted with unless a card effect specifies 
otherwise. They still score victory points. 
You may always look at the cards in your History, 
but other players may not.
The Inuit and the Vikings do not have a History 
(representing that these civilisations do not 
rely on written records), while the Atlanteans 
and the Polynesians have other keywords 
acting similarly (but not interchangeably) to 
History (see their nation-specific notes for 
details). If a card would be placed in their 
History, it is Discarded instead.
IN-PLAY CARDS 
 card, it stays in your Play 
area until it is removed by another effect. If a 
 
card is removed from play (Abandoned, Recalled, 
Exiled, put into History) while it has Resources on 
it, move those Resources to your Resource pool. If 
 card is removed from play while it has a 
 
token on it, you do not move the 
 token back to 
All 
 cards have a Signpost icon 
indicate that they stay in play like regular 
 
cards. However, effects referencing, counting, 
Abandoning, or Recalling 
 cards do not 
affect 
 cards. The only way 
leave play is by resolving their Profit effect.
LOOK
Pick up and examine the indicated card(s) 
without showing other players. Unless instructed 
otherwise, return the card(s) you Looked at to their 
original location. 
If you are instructed to Look at multiple cards and 
there are fewer eligible cards available to Look at 
than specified, Look at as many as possible.
If you Look at multiple cards, return them to their 
original deck in any order. 
If you Look at 
 cards, ignore King of Kings 
unless it’s the only card in the Fame deck. 
If you Look at cards in your Nation deck, 
ignore your 
 card unless it’s the only card in 
your Nation deck.
MOVE A RESOURCE
Move the indicated Resource from the owner’s 
Resource Pool to the target area or card. Resources 
on cards (whether yours or the Market’s) are not 
available to be Moved or used to Pay with. Note that 
unlike when Paying, you cannot substitute Resources 
for the purpose of Moving them.
NATION DECK
Your Nation deck is built up of your cards in a face-
down deck placed perpendicularly on top of your 
 
card. If a card effect lets you manipulate cards in your 
Nation deck in any way, your 
 card always remains 
on the bottom. Never place a  card underneath your 
 card or shuffle your 
 card into your Nation deck.
PASSIVE
As long as a card is in your Play area, its Passive 
ability is in effect.
The Passive ability of a 
 card is in effect for the 
entire game, including Innovate turns, Revolt turns 
and Solstice resolutions, and may affect final Scoring.

PAY 
Return the indicated number of tokens of the 
specified type to the Supply. If you are unable to do 
so, you may not take that Action or use that Exhaust 
ability. If the Action or ability has multiple options, 
you must Choose another option instead. Resources 
on cards are not available to be Paid.
When Paying 
, you may spend any amount of 
 as if it were 1 
 each.
When Paying 
 , you may spend any amount of 
 as if it were 2 
 each. No change is 
given when you do so.
You cannot spend 
 as if it were 
vice versa.
You cannot convert Resources into each other, 
unless explicitly permitted by an effect.
PLACE CARDS ON YOUR DECK
Place the card face down (from your hand, unless 
indicated otherwise) on the top of your Draw deck.
profit
If you have a 
 card in your play area with 
 tokens on it, you may spend an Action 
on your turn to resolve the card’s Profit effect. 
Move all the 
 tokens on the card into 
your Resource pool and place the card into 
your Discard pile (or elsewhere if the effect 
explicitly instructs you to).
 
RECALL
 cards can be Recalled. 
Note that while 
 cards remain in play like 
 cards, they cannot be Recalled.
When a 
 card is Recalled, return it to your hand.
If the card has one or more Garrisoned cards, 
the Garrisoned cards are also returned to your hand. 
If the card has Resource tokens on it, move those 
Resources to your Resource pool. 
If a card with a 
 token is Recalled, you do 
not move the 
 token back to your State card. 
However, if you replay the same card later on the 
same turn, you may use another 
 token to resolve 
the Exhaust effect again (since the card does not 
“remember” being Exhausted before being Recalled).
REMINDER: Only 
 cards may be Recalled or 
Abandoned, not 
 cards!
REMOVE A RESOURCE
Remove the indicated Resource and return it 
to the Supply. Note that, unlike when Paying 
you cannot substitute Resources for the purpose 
of Removing them.
RETURN A 
 card from your hand to the Unrest pile. 
This is most often done by playing the 
that you wish to Return from your hand. This requires 
spending an Action, along with Paying Resource 
tokens or Discarding cards, as detailed on the card.
Some card effects on other cards allow you to 
“Return a 
 card” from your hand or Discard pile. 
To do so, take the 
 card (from the appropriate 
place) and add it to the Unrest pile. The text on the 
Unrest card is ignored in this case. 
Some cards allow you to “Free play a 
 card”. 
In this case you can play a 
 from your hand 
without spending a 
. However, you must still Pay 
the cost of Returning the card by Paying Resource 
tokens or Discarding cards.
RETURN A 
 token from one of the cards in your Play 
area and Return it to your State card. You may 
use this 
 token to activate any Exhaust ability 
on the same turn.
SOLSTICE
For detailed rules about the Solstice and how to 
resolve Solstice effects, see page 16.
STEAL RESOURCES
Take the indicated number of tokens of the specified 
type from the specified players’ Resource pools. 
If you are unable to resolve this effect in full, 
resolve it as much as possible. You may never 
substitute Resources when Stealing. Players who 
cannot give the full amount, are considered ‘unable 
to Pay’, but must Pay as much as they are able.
SWAP
Some card effects let you Swap cards between the 
Market and elsewhere. 
To do so, take the card from the Market, setting 
aside any tokens on it and returning any 
 beneath. 
Then place the card being Swapped into that Market 
Slot, returning the set aside tokens to the new card 
and placing a new 
underneath it unless it’s a 
 card. Finally, put the 
card which started in the Market to wherever the 
Swapped card came from (Hand, a deck, etc.).
If a card lets you Swap a card in your hand with a 
matching-suited card in the Market, the Market card 
you choose must have a suit icon ( 
 ) which is also on the Swapping card. If no 
such Market card exists, you may not Swap.
TAKE
Take the specified card and add it to your hand.
 cards are Taken from the Unrest pile and 
added to your hand.
trade
When you activate the ability to Trade do 
exactly one of the following:
Pay 1 
Move 1 of your 
 to a 
in your Play area with fewer than 
 on it already and perform its 
Commerce ability.
Add 1 
 from the Supply onto 
an opponent’s 
 card with fewer 
than 3 
 on it already, perform its 
Commerce ability for yourself, and 
 from the Supply.
When playing without the Trade Routes 
expansion, you might still find a few cards 
that give you the option to Trade. Simply 
ignore this option.
TREAT AS
When a card effect instructs you to Treat icon X As 
icon(s) Y, you temporarily Treat X As Y until the end 
of the current turn. Treat As effects always expire 
before Solstice or Scoring.

Card-specific Notes
ACCLAIMED (2FAM8/9)
When you Break through for a 
VP card, follow the normal rules for Breaking 
through, but you may either choose a card from the Market or to reveal cards 
from the Main deck.
KING OF KINGS 
(1FAM9/9, 2FAM9/9, AND 3FAM10/10)
If an effect allows you to manipulate the order of cards in the 
 deck, King of 
Kings always remains on the bottom. So long as there are any face-down cards 
in the 
 deck, any effect which allows players to Look, Gain, or Draw cards 
refers only to those face-down cards and not King of Kings.
If King of Kings is the only 
 card in the deck when an effect instructs you 
to Draw or Gain a 
 card, resolve King of Kings instead.
King of Kings is always placed Side A up during setup. The first time each 
game that King of Kings is resolved, flip it to side B. Each player can resolve 
King of Kings (either side) only once in total per game. When they do so, they 
should flip their King of Kings token to remind them that they are unable 
to do so again.
Arthurians, Vikings, Utopians and Cultists (except if in 
 
state) can gain progress from resolving King of Kings if their State card 
matches the relevant icon, but they ignore the Develop keyword as they 
have no Development area. A Cultist in 
 state receives no 
benefit from King of Kings.
REMINDER: Each player may trigger King of Kings only once in a game.
MIYABI (3JPN6/24), 
SUMERIANS (1TRI7/11)
These effects return 
 cards at the end of the game, when Scoring is triggered. 
They may return 
 from any area which is scored – including your Hand, 
Play area, Discard pile, Draw deck, History, or nation-specific alternative.
If the game ends in a Collapse (and thus not a Scoring), these effects do not 
trigger. If a tie during a Collapse results in Scoring between tied players, then 
those players may still trigger these effects if they have them, but returning 
those 
 does not prevent Collapse (nor break their original 
 tie).
If playing against the Cultists, they may be used to return Chaos during 
Scoring, but not to prevent a Chaos victory for the Cultist player.
SACRED PASS (1REG14/14)
You may not use this card to add the 
 card to your deck.
SUPREME (3FAM1/10 AND 3FAM2/10)
This card has no effect when played, but it can still be played as an Action 
to just to Discard it. It can also be Discarded as a cost on Actions, Exhaust 
effects, Solstice effects, etc. Only Discarding it during Clean-up is forbidden.

Nation Descriptions
You don’t have to read this section to learn how to play, but 
reading your nation’s entry will give you a sense of the key 
cards in your deck.
When you play with a nation for the first time, take a moment before completing 
the player setup to look through its pool of cards. Each nation is unique, so it is 
worth familiarising yourself with the cards that will come up from your Nation 
deck, and the Development cards that will become available once you become 
an Empire. You will always have multiple routes to victory, but an awareness 
of your nation’s strengths and weaknesses will help you form a strategy and 
identify cards in the Market that will help your game plan. 
Each nation has a complexity rating, ranging from relatively straightforward 
(one star) to very unique and challenging (five stars). This is an indicator of how 
easy it is to discover “how this deck should be played”, and can be used as a 
guide to the recommended order of trying them out for a new player. 
Nations marked with 
 require the Trade Routes expansion to be played. 
While some of them might be of lower complexity, they assume familiarity with 
the Trade Routes expansion, and thus are meant for advanced players.
Each nation also has an aggression rating from Peaceful to Ruthless. Higher 
aggression means more innate 
 cards, thus playing against them often results 
in a feeling of being disrupted. If your playgroup doesn’t enjoy the occasional 
negative interaction, we recommend playing with peaceful, or mostly peaceful 
civilisations. This is reflected in our Bot designs: more aggressive nations’ bots 
tend to disrupt your plans more.
Your Power card has one of the strongest Acquiring methods in the game, 
and you should be looking to maximise it as much as possible. You have 2 
 
cards in your Nation deck, so you might try to flip your Merchants card early. 
This will allow you to Acquire even more cards and to unlock the full power of 
Turkish Mercenaries. You would love a few 
 cards to fuel the Great 
Mosque of Damascus. Exile cards liberally to ensure that the Market always 
has cards for you to Acquire on your turn.
 Aksumites 
As historically appropriate, your Salt Mines are worth more than gold: Your 
Conquer and Advance cards are so cheap to use that you want to use them 
as often as possible. Beware of the deck bloat: instead of looking for cards to 
play, try to focus on cards that earn you maximum VP in the endgame. You 
can History away cards you can’t use early game using Ge’ez Script and cycle 
quickly through your Development cards. Enjoy staying 
 for a while to make 
use of the majority of your direct Acquisition abilities, or rush to become a 
 
to start minting your own Coinage as soon as able.
 Arthurians
The Arthurians never even try to become an Empire, instead pursuing quests 
and chasing after the legendary Graal. Your knights 
 are vital, granting 
powerful boons as they are Garrisoned. Send them on quests for Myrddin 
Wyllt or take a darker path and use Morigena’s powers. Looming over you is 
the Battle of Camlann, Gwaith Camlan, which will see your knights 
 fall and 
your kingdom suffer mounting Unrest.
Arthurian Special Rules
As the Arthurians, you never become a 
. Your 
 is your nadir card. When it 
would be added to your Discard pile from your Nation deck, (generally during 
reshuffle) instead immediately place it into your Play area. Do not flip your 
State card when doing so.
In addition, you do not have a Development area and cannot use Develop 
effects. Instead, your 
 cards are impending quests. By using the Solstice 
effect on King Arthur’s Court, one impending quest is Garrisoned and thus 
becomes the active quest. You may only have one active quest at a time. By 
using Morigena or Myrddin Wyllt, you may Gain the active quest into either 
your hand or your Discard pile. Graal may only become the active quest if there 
are no other impending quests. Removing Graal does not trigger game end. 
Instead, it triggers game end when the quest is accomplished and played.
At the end of the game your impending quests and a possible Garrisoned 
active quest are not considered owned by you for scoring purposes (i.e. they 
function like cards still in the Nation deck or Development area of other nations).
Arthurian Bot
When setting up the Arthurian Bot, replace step 5 with 
the following: 
5a. Place the 
 card Graal face up.
5b. Shuffle the remaining 
on top of the Graal card. These are the impending quests.
5c. Place the 
 card face up next to the impending quests.
5d. Shuffle the  cards and place them in a face-down stack on 
 card. This is the Dynasty deck.
5e. Remove King Arthur’s Court from the game.

 Atlanteans
As the Atlanteans, you begin as an Empire, which means you can use the 
powerful 
 cards from the start of the game. However, it also means you have 
to ensure a constant Supply of 
 to develop further. 
Atlantis is under the constant threat of Floods and Unrest, and you’ll need 
to choose between managing your own regions, terrorising the high seas with 
your mighty Fleet, or prioritising finding new 
 cards lest you risk your nation 
sinking entirely. But with the rising waters come rewards, which if used wisely 
will see your nation become the true stuff of Myths and Legends.
Atlantean Special Rules
As the Atlanteans, you begin with your State card on 
, and never flip. You 
do not have a Nation deck (and thus no 
 or cards), and thus can begin 
developing the very first time you reshuffle.
Atlanteans do not have a History – whenever an effect would put a card into 
History, you Discard it instead. Instead, you have a Flooded pile under your 
Power card. Cards are added to the Flooded pile through the Sink keyword. 
Cards in your Flooded pile still score victory points, but they are not “in 
History” for the purposes of 
VP effects. Flooded cards cannot be interacted 
with unless a card effect specifies otherwise. You may always Look at the cards 
in your Flooded pile, but other players may not.
If a player other than the Atlanteans triggers the Sink keyword, the specified 
cards are simply Discarded.
atlantean Bot
When setting up the Atlantean Bot, replace step 5 
with the following:
5a. Set aside all 
 cards that are 
5b. Sort the remaining 
 cards in victory point order and 
place them in a face-down pile, with the higher value cards 
at the top. Treat all 
VP cards as having a value of 5. 
If multiple cards have the same value, determine their 
order randomly.
5c. Shuffle the set-aside 
on top of the pile. This is the Dynasty deck.
 Carthaginians
As the Carthaginians, your main concern is control of the Market and the 
amassing of 
. Use your unique power alongside your Caravans and Trading 
Ships to manipulate the Market in your favour. Once an Empire, continue your 
expansion with your famous Elephants led by Hannibal, or dominate trade using 
a Monopoly to export Unrest and other unwanted cards to your opponents. Try 
to gain access to oceans, as your ships and your own City of Carthage will both 
benefit from them.
Carthaginians Special Rules
During Clean-up, add 
 onto a card in the Market, instead of 
The number of 
 added depends on the Power Card side used.
 Celts
As the Celts, you will want to adopt an aggressive playstyle, concentrating 
on Acquiring 
 cards and spreading Unrest through your powerful 
Druids. Without the Prosperity available to other nations, you will need to 
collect 
 using Cattle Raids and grow your 
 with your Druids and the 
Cauldron of Cerridwen.
Spreading Unrest to your opponents can help you win a forced Collapse, but 
don’t overlook the more subtle advantages of simply clogging your opponent’s 
hand, or forcing them to spend Actions and Resources getting rid of it. As the 
Celts, you want games to go long enough to develop all five of your 
while slowing your opponents down enough to prevent them from doing the same.
Celts Special Rules
While the effect on the A side of their 
 card negatively affects other players, 
it is not a 
 card, therefore cannot be defended against.
 Cultists 
Playing as the Cultists is an experience like no other, with your ceremony cards 
taking you on a dark journey to reaching a Corrupted 
 state. Once 
you gain access to new powerful cards and abilities, including the ability to 
instantly end the game by summoning an eldritch horror 
. But beware: 
should you choose to sacrifice everything to do so, this will stop many of your 
ways of Acquiring. Your game will always centre on managing Unrest: get too 
many and you risk getting bogged down, get too few and your opponents can 
brush the threat of your Chaos victory aside. You can Break Through for cards 
from Exile using Frozen Waste, and Cursed Library can remove Resources 
from the Market to facilitate unexpected Exile opportunities. Your 
are very situationally powerful, so make sure to have them in play when they 
are useful, and remove them when they become a liability.

Cultists Special Rules
Cultists use only 3 
The Cultists have a second double-sided State card, with unique symbols. 
Some of your initial cards have the 
 state symbol. You may only play those 
cards once you have the 
 State card, and not before. Furthermore, your 
 
State card means that you can no longer play any 
 cards, though you 
may continue to use such cards already in your play area.
Additionally, the Cultists have a special, stronger form of 
 called Chaos 
that they prefer handing out to other players (especially via their ability once 
they reach 
 state). If Collapse is triggered and the Chaos pile is empty, you 
win immediately. 
Cultists use two double-sided ceremony cards, which begin stacked, with 
Research the Ceremony on top. Only the top (visible) ceremony card is 
considered to be in play. Your ceremony card functions like an additional Power 
card with a potent Exhaust or Passive ability, as well as a Solstice effect that 
will let you progress on to the next step of the ceremony. Your ceremony card 
cannot leave play except through its Solstice effect. When a new ceremony 
card enters play during Solstice, the newly revealed card’s Solstice effect 
is also resolved.
The last two stages of the ceremony show one and two 
 icons respectively: 
this matters for the Scoring of the B side of the Power card (where it scores you 
additional points), or in case of a Collapse where you did not win via Chaos 
(where it counts against you)!
To trigger the Solstice effect of the final ceremony stage, you need 13 different 
icons on cards Garrisoned under your ceremony card. Possible icons are:
You may use the icon tokens provided with the game to keep track of icons you’ve 
already Acquired and/or Garrisoned in whatever way is convenient for you.
Note that 
, and State symbols like 
 are not 
“icons” for the purpose of this victory condition.
cultist Bot
When setting up the Cultist Bot, you don’t construct a Dynasty 
deck in step 5. Remove the Ceremony cards (Research the 
Ceremony, Ceremonial Gathering) from the game.
During step 7 of Bot setup, place the 
 State card on the 
bottom and the 
 card (with the S side face up) on top of it. 
 Egyptians
As the Egyptians, you are empire builders. With so many opportunities for 
Development, you’ll want to carefully consider the best order in which to 
expand your deck. With your infrastructure located around Egypt’s famous 
river, the frequent Flood of the Nile can bring new opportunities for growth, and 
you’ll want to keep an eye out for key 
 cards in the Market. You become an 
Empire sooner than anyone else in written history, but this also means you’ll 
often have to find solutions to your problems from within your deck.
Egyptians Special Rules
Egyptians use their Embalming card to help keep their deck trim and 
uncluttered. Passive abilities are always in effect, so Embalming may be used 
whenever you Pay 
 during an Action, Exhaust ability, Solstice effect, or 
while developing! It is not triggered if the 
 cost is entirely paid by spending 
 Greeks
As the Greeks, your main advantages are your cities and technology, and you 
will want to lean into those strengths. In the early game, your Settlers and Greek 
Mercenaries are powerful cards of expansion, while as an Empire, Science will 
enable you to continue to Advance and the Olympic Games will keep your 
nation manageable. Your Lighthouse will let you manipulate Exiled cards, so it 
may be worth bearing in mind which cards you Exile during the game.
The Guptas’ true strength is in the immense flexibility of their Goods-based 
economy. Use Ayurveda to balance your Resources, and make sure to Acquire 
 cards. You can shift smoothly between wealth and strong Market control. 
Sri Gupta and your development Chandragupta I both give you a Break 
through for 
, giving you the option to flip to your Merchant Empire as fast 
as you can, rather than linger as Merchants waiting to Acquire more 
might appear in the Market. You might want to do this for an earlier 
seeing as Glory is your Accession card.
Guptas Special Rules
During Clean-up, you add 1 
 onto a card in the Market, instead of adding 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Inuit 
At the end of your Summer turns (during which you may play 
 cards), 
your hand size is decreased by 2, meaning that at the start of Winter turns you 
usually have only 3 cards to play. While you have many ways to gain new cards, 
only Advance can earn you new 
 cards during Winter for the upcoming 
Summer. Challenges like this will frequently require you to retain a few cards in 
your hand turn-to-turn, unlike most other civilisations. As a trade-off for these 
challenges, you have access to your (rather cheap) Development cards from the 
beginning of the game. 
Will you be remembered as a fearsome Harpoon-wielder on the hunt for 
fame, or will you use Oral History and Bone Carving to turn the lack of written 
history into a great advantage?
Inuit Special Rules
The Inuit use only 3 
As the Inuit, your unique State card flips at the end of each round. You do not 
have a Nation deck (so no 
 or cards), and thus can begin developing the 
very first time you reshuffle.
The Inuit do not have a History – whenever an effect would put a card 
into History, you simply Discard it. In Winter you also take a 
 when 
Discarding in this way.
Nunavut has two 
 symbols, and counts as 2 
 cards for the purposes of 
card effects such as Qarmaq, Iglu, the Khmer Empire 
 card (Horizons), and 
the Macedonians 
 card (Legends).
inuit Bot
When setting up the Inuit Bot, replace step 5 with the following:
5a. Collect the 
 cards, setting Imaq and Nunavik aside.
5b. Place Kayaks face down, then alternate placing 
 cards on top in ascending victory point order, with a 
3-point 
 card on top.
5c. Place Nunavik and Imaq on top of this deck (with Nunavik 
on top). This is the Dynasty deck.
When playing against the Inuit Bot, at the end of its Summer 
 turns, place a 
 token in Slots 4 and higher (5 and higher 
if Sovereign+) . Do not place cards into these Slots. Flip the Bot 
State card to its Winter 
 side. At the end of its Winter 
 
turns, remove the 
 tokens from Slots 4 & 5, and flip the Bot 
State card to its Summer 
 side.
Japan is perfect if you can be patient, as your cards require a touch of finesse 
to create opportunities to thrive on. You’ll want to move smoothly into 
, so 
beware early Glory plays, or increasing your deck size too much in the early 
game – if your Clans follow the teachings of Shinto, your deck can speed up while 
you can build up your 
 Play area. Combine this with the subtle benefits of 
Kanji in keeping your deck-cycling speed at a perfect hum. Once you reach 
you will learn to live with Shinto and Tendai Buddhism in peace side-by-side, 
especially when combined with Jingu-Ji and the fabled Tea Ceremony.
 Macedonians
The Macedonians, more than any other nation, are focused on expansion. 
Grabbing and keeping 
 cards in play is likely to be a central element of your 
victory plan. Macedonians can continue to Conquer even after they become an 
Empire, thanks to Alexander and his Companion Cavalry. Of course you want 
to play Glory early and often, which creates a natural synergy with the powerful 
Macedonian Phalanxes. But don’t forget to also acquire a few key cards from 
the Market, which you can garrison under your excess regions to keep your 
deck small and focused, while still amassing enough victory points to win.
 Magyars
As the Magyars, your strongest cards are your uniquely powerful leaders: 
Emese, Álmos, Árpád. While their strict historical sequence gives you guidance, 
you’re bound by a Blood Oath that makes both gaining and managing Unrest 
cards very desirable. Be on the lookout for 
 regions, and manipulate your 
Nation deck to make best use of your long 
 period, as once you hit 
you’ll be forced to settle down, and your Glory becomes useless to you.
Magyars Special Rules
While the effect on the A side of their 
 card negatively affects other players, 
it is not a 
 card, therefore cannot be defended against.

 Martians
As the Martians, you have plenty of powerful options, but your foreign attitude 
to Earth will pose many challenges on your quest to permanently settle on this 
planet and blend into the local populace. Your 
 cards are worth negative 
victory points, but can be incredibly powerful when used at the right time. Your 
Nation deck is quite large, but burning through it will cause the calamitous 
Reactor Explosion, and you won’t survive that radiation for long! Eliminating 
all your 
 can allow you to Go Native, which fixes many of your problems, 
but makes many of your starting cards unplayable. The B side of your 
is meant for Martian players who want to eschew the goal of Going Native and 
instead preserve their Martian ways, despite the challenges that presents. It’s 
not easy being green!
Martians Special Rules
Your 
 (Reactor Explosion) is your nadir card. When it would be added to 
your Discard pile from your Nation deck, (generally during reshuffle) instead 
immediately place it into your Play area. Do not flip your State card when doing 
so. Reactor Explosion can be removed along with the rest of your Nation deck 
at the End of Solstice if you have no 
 tokens, as printed on your Alien State 
card. Once in play, the only other way to remove Reactor Explosion from play 
is with an effect that puts it into History.
The Martians use a special State card, with Alien on the starting 
 side and 
Gone Native on the 
 side. Alien Martians score only 1VP for every 3 
 
tokens, instead of for every 1. In addition, you must Take 
 for every 
 
token you spend. While some cards in the Martian deck allow you to convert 
 into 
, this does not count as spending for this purpose.
Martian 
 cards are your greatest tool. They gain 
 as a mandatory effect, 
and penalise you during Scoring if not Exiled, put into History, or Swapped 
into the Market via Sharing Our Secrets. These tools are so removed from 
Earth-based technologies that they seem to be dangerous (but enticing!) magic.
Note that the default Trade Action to gain 1 
 involves Paying 
 and thus Martians are penalised for that.
martian Bot
When setting up the Martian Bot, include Cryostasis 
 in the 
Dynasty deck, as if it was a card, instead of the Bot deck as 
part of step 5.
 Mauryans
As the Mauryans, you will want to open with aggressive tactics as you expand 
your nation with 
 cards, using the mighty Indian Elephants you have 
at your disposal. (And yes, it’s deliberate that only one has the 
 symbol!) As 
you become an Empire, you’ll need to choose whether to keep expanding and 
seeking Glory with control of the great Grand Trunk Road, or to follow Ashoka 
instead and take a peaceful path to victory.
Mauryans Special Rules
Grand Trunk Road has two 
 symbols, and counts as 2 
 cards for the 
purposes of card effects such as Glory, the Khmer Empire 
 card (Horizons), 
the Macedonians 
 card (Legends), or the Mauryans’ own 
 Mayans
As their culture is related to the Olmecs’, it is no surprise that the Mayans use 
Exhaust abilities extensively, in combination with managing Mask 
As great city builders, you have a Nation deck full of 
 cards, and cards like 
Halach Uinic or the Mayan Traders reward you for gaining more of them. This 
will naturally keep your deck small, and cycling quickly. Once you make it to 
, the unique Popol Vuh will turn the temptation of Unrest into an avenue 
, but to get there, you’ll have to manage your Headpieces well.
mayan Bot
When setting up the Mayan Bot, set aside all 3 copies of 
Headpiece, and do not include them in the Dynasty deck’s 
creation. Put them near the Dynasty deck, as the Bot’s effects 
will refer to these cards explicitly.
 Minoans
As the Minoans, you will probably focus on 
, as you will need it to Develop. 
Carefully manage your supply of 
 to create beautiful Pottery but beware 
of its 
 symbol – if you Abandon it after you become an Empire, you won’t 
be able to play it again. Keep your nation running efficiently with a discerning 
eye for important cards, and use your Writing Systems to consign unimportant 
cards to History. Your biggest advantage is how fast you get to your Empire, so 
especially be on the lookout for powerful 
 cards, or cards that allow you to 
Acquire for free even during 

 Olmecs
As the Olmecs, your game will look different from that of many of the other 
players. You won’t find any Prosperity, Conquer, Advance, or Glory cards in 
your deck; instead, you’ll need to rely on your Stone Masks. Masks 
 are 
a tricky resource – they let you Draw more cards and power your 
but they score you points only when they are in your History. Managing them 
carefully will be key to your success. With your 
 cards like Ball Games 
and Lodestone Compass you’ll be able to Acquire new cards as often as you 
want, but if you succumb to the siren call of the deck bloat, you might never 
make it to Empire!
 Persians
As the Persians, you will want to subjugate other nations to your will and use 
them to your advantage. Conquer as many 
 cards as you can and expand 
your territories. Once an Empire, you have several strategies you could 
pursue. You can start striking your opponents with your mighty Battering Ram 
and spreading Unrest with your Persian Gold. Alternatively you could take 
advantage of your Satrap card for additional Actions, but you’ll probably want 
your Windmills developed to ensure a steady supply of materials.
 Polynesians 
The Polynesians and their incredible feats of exploration across the Pacific 
Ocean are very much based in history. The unique way in which their society 
expanded, spreading over unfathomable distances with only the stars and 
currents to guide them, translates to a very different gameplay experience. 
As Polynesians, your challenge is in controlling your own state, between Isle-
bound (filling up the islands you already populate) and Voyaging (sailing the 
open waters), and collecting enough Mana to power your strongest moves, such 
as Explorers and the Development costs of the islands you need to discover. 
Gaining Mana is sometimes a cost (you have to give up a card from your hand, 
after all), sometimes a benefit (you need to get a lot of Mana to be able to 
explore and Develop often).
Polynesians Special Rules
Polynesians use only 3 
Polynesians use a special State card, with unique symbols. It does not flip when 
gaining the 
Polynesians have a special always-in-play card, Mana, which Garrisons cards 
to fuel strong effects. Many cards gain Mana from your hand or Discard pile. (If 
not specified, the Mana is gained from hand.) Some effects require you to discard 
cards that were Garrisoned as Mana (this is referred to as ‘spending Mana’).
The Polynesians do not have a History – whenever an effect would put a 
card into History, you simply Discard it and Take a 
. Instead, you have 
a Legends pile under your Power card. Cards in your Legends pile still score 
victory points, but they are not “in History” for the purposes of 
VP effects. 
Cards in your Legends pile cannot be interacted with unless a card effect 
specifies otherwise. You may always Look at the cards in your Legends pile, 
but other players may not.
Whakapapa’s Passive ability allows you to Pay 3 
 to Return a 
 whenever 
one or more cards are put into Legends. As a Passive, this can be used anytime, 
including during Solstice effects such as Rapa Nui (Easter Island).
If a player other than the Polynesians attempts to put a card into Legends, the 
specified card is simply be Discarded.
polynesian Bot
When setting up the Polynesian Bot, replace step 5 
with the following:
5a. Place the 
 card Aotearoa face down.
5b. Shuffle the remaining 
on top of the Aotearoa card. This is the Discovery deck.
5c. Place the 
 card face up next to the Discovery deck.
5d. Shuffle the   cards and place them in a face-down stack on 
 card. This is the Dynasty deck.
5e. Remove the Mana and Overpopulation cards from the game.
 Qin
Playing as the Qin is a game of challenging decisions. Powerful leaders must 
rule with the Mandate of Heaven, but is that leadership worth the burden it 
brings? How will you choose between the competing systems of Confucianism 
and Legalism? And as an Empire, will you invest the time needed to construct 
Long Walls or focus on other goals? With 
 being a key to your plans, you 
have many ways to build a lasting legacy.
Qin Special Rules

 Romans
As the Romans, your path to dominance will likely be through rapid expansion. 
Conquer 
 cards and use them to declare your Glory and earn 
. With your 
mighty Legion, your conquest can continue well into your Accession to Empire. 
Do not overlook the City of Rome though; you’ll want this in play and then 
upgraded to Rome the Eternal City, and Acquiring a few more cities along the 
way can help your deck cycling or population growth too.
 Sassanids 
When playing this spiritual and thematic descendant of the Persian civilisation, 
you will have a host of powerful Attack cards at all stages of the game. Your first 
main challenge will be to manage your Knights 
, cards capable of exploiting 
the strongest of your 
 cards repeatedly while providing you with access 
 cards. Your second challenge will be the religion of Zoroastrianism, to 
keep feeding the holy fire of Atar and the purifying waters of Aban. It might be 
difficult at times, but if you can keep them going, you will be rewarded plenty. 
And finally, thanks to Huzistan and the Shah, you have some special tricks 
related to the 
 deck too.
 Scythians
As the Scythians, you will want to focus on expanding your territory and 
grabbing 
 cards that you can exploit for their 
. As Nomads (one 
 
and one not…), you’ll be making use of Tents for shelter and Mounted Archers 
for protection, but your true Glory won’t be recognised until you become an 
Empire. Your deck is one of the thinnest, and extremely fast when raiding and 
using your Tamga, but has a low innate Scoring potential, so be on the lookout 
for good 
VP cards to capitalise on your 
 Taino 
As the Taino, you will be the master of food production: use your Bohio to 
collect from all manners of regions, maximise production using Soil Rotation, 
and feed your people with Fishing. You will be Acquiring cards using 
(similar to other Central American civilisations), like Batey and Canoes. Your 
first challenge will be to manage allocating your Resources onto your cards, 
and your second will be to have enough 
 that playing Migration and Sol de 
Jayuya several times becomes possible. 
Taino Special Rules
Taino use only 3 
Unlike all other civilisations, the Taino consider all Resource tokens on their 
cards as Resources in their pool during Scoring. This means that placing (for 
example) 
 tokens on Zemi does not reduce the points you score for cards 
like Moneylenders.
Your State card shows Free Tribes on both sides, so there is no need to flip it 
when you place your 
 card in your Discard pile.
 Tang 
As the Tang, you will be leading your people through some interesting times: 
while you start with no Unrest, you Take one 
 each Solstice! Like the Qin 
many centuries before the Tang, you will have to manage the double-edged 
Mandate of Heaven, the ebb and flow of the population in and out of the Market, 
and deal with the philosophies of Taoism and Confucianism. Meanwhile, you 
will have access to the largest cities of the world of their time – Chang’an and 
Luoyang – to aid you.
Tang Special Rules

 Utopians 
The Utopians are unlike any other nation – everything about them is different. 
You uniquely have to manage the Scrolls 
, you have no Nation deck and 
no Development cards, and you won’t want to go through your deck quickly. 
Instead, you will be realising your Visions of Shangri-La and spending your 
Resources to Advance towards the fabled city of Shangri-La itself. Study your 
cards – and your opponents – carefully, as you’ll need to decide which will 
serve you and which will hinder you on your path to Utopia. Will you sacrifice 
everything for a speedy journey, or will you learn all forms of warfare known to 
man, only to find your inner peace in your Monastery?
Utopian Special Rules
Utopians use only 3 
Utopians use two double-sided journey cards, which begin stacked, with Visions 
of Shangri-La on top. Only the top (visible) journey card is considered to be in 
play. Your journey card functions like an additional Power card with a potent 
Exhaust or Passive ability, as well as a Solstice effect that will let you progress 
on to the next step of your journey. Your journey card cannot leave play except 
for through its Solstice effect. When a new journey card enters play during 
Solstice, the newly revealed card’s Solstice effect is also resolved.
utopian Bot
When setting up the Utopian Bot, do not construct a Dynasty 
deck. Instead, put Visions of Shangri-La on top of Gates 
of Shangri-La, both face up. The top card in this pile is the 
Bot’s journey card. 
During step 7 of Bot setup, find the Utopian Journey table, and 
place it next to the State card.
 Vikings
The Vikings never become an Empire and have no History, which confers its 
own advantages and challenges. Your Nation deck will keep providing you with 
cards at no cost, but you won’t be able to control the order in which they enter 
your deck. Use Gothja and other cards to help you adapt, and make full use 
of your ability to keep playing cards that would normally go into your History. 
To keep your deck under control, remember to Garrison cards using your 
 
cards and your Sagas.
Vikings Special Rules
As the Vikings, you never become an Empire. You do not have a Development 
area and cannot use Develop effects. Your 
 is your zenith card. When this card 
is added to your Discard pile from your Nation deck, (generally during reshuffle), 
it triggers the end of the game. Do not flip your State card when doing so.
Vikings do not have a History – whenever an effect would put a card into 
History, you simply Discard it.
viking Bot
When setting up the Viking Bot, skip step 5a. The 
 card is the 
bottom of the Viking Dynasty deck.
As the Wagadou, you will be presiding over the richest gold mines of the known 
world, potentially having access to 100 or more 
 during the course of a game. 
The price of these riches are the infertile lands on the southern edge of the 
Sahara, which is why to raise your head in Pride (your version of Glory), you’ll 
need to get your hand on more fertile lands besides a steady stream of 
possibly via your trade cities of Koumbi Saleh and Aoudaghost. Your other 
challenge will be to Pay the cost of the Pact with Bida, until you can reach 
and your Adoption of Islam allows you to move past it.
Wagadou Special Rules

Rules to Remember
You may spend 1 
 to Pay for 1 
 or 2 
 of cost.
A card may not be Free played more than once in a turn. 
Each player may trigger King of Kings only once in a game.
You may never spend Actions or use Exhaust effects during Solstice.
VP cards are limited to a maximum of 10 victory points each. 
Even your 
All players should perform their Solstice effects simultaneously.
If you Break through for 
 you may NOT do so from the 
Main deck until the corresponding Small deck has run out.
The Market always contains 5 cards. Slots are filled from Small decks 
when possible – then filled from the Main deck. Always refill empty 
Slots immediately.
When filling from the Main deck, it is entirely acceptable to place any 
suit in any Slot.
If you Acquire a card from Exile, you still Take a 
 
unless it was a 
When an icon is Treated as (see page 39) another icon via any effect, 
the original icon is no longer present.
At the end of your turn, do not forget to add 1 
 from the Supply (not 
one of your own!) on a Market card.
You may spend 
 to Pay for 1 
 or 2 
 of cost. 
 cards may be Recalled or Abandoned, not 
When using Trade Routes, all players gain an extra 
 token.
When activating the Trade keyword, you can Pay 1 

Campaign Logs

Solo Mode Trade route Tables
trade Route
Commerce Effect
Profit Effect
Welcoming
(Fame 
Resolve the top card of the dynasty deck. The owner of this 
 
MAY draw a card.
Resolve the top card of the main deck. If it is a 0 VP card, gain 1 
Andes Highway
Gain 2 
 and 1 
Put the top card of the discard pile onto the top of the bot deck. Gain the top 
 
Baltic Amber Road
 from discard; if unable, gain 2 
 and discard it.
Cornwall Tin Road
 ; if unable, discard the top two cards of the bot deck.
Discard the top card of the dynasty deck.
Eastern Silk Road 
(Tang)
Discard the top card of the bot deck. Acquire a 
Hopewell Exchange 
System
Discard the top card of the bot deck. Discard the top card of the 
dynasty deck.
Gain 3 
 and 2 
Lapis Lazuli Trade
 ; if unable, gain 4 
Maritime Spice Road 
(Abbasid/Aksumite)
 (including from exile); if unable, gain 1 
Philippines Jade Trade
Acquire a card in slot #1 or slot #2 of the market.
 and resolve it.
Swahili Coast
Discard the top card of the bot deck and gain 1 
The Nile Corridor
Trans-Saharan Trade 
(Wagadou)
Acquire a card in the market with 
 on it; if unable, gain 3 
 
and add 1 
 to the market card in the 
 slot.
 the bot has in play.
Western Silk Road 
(Abbasid/Sassanid)
 from discard. Gain 1 
Resolve the top card of the bot deck. Discard the top card of the bot deck.
merchant empire
End of Turn effect 
(resolve first applicable)
 , if able.
 , if able.
Pay 5 
 to gain the top 
 card and 
flip to Merchant Empire.
Resolve all profits, where able.
Resolve all profits, where able. 
Pay 3 
if able.
Trade, if able.
Trade, if able.
Bot’s 
 Trade Priority
 with most 
 (but fewer than 3).
Own 
Where tied, first available 
 on the Trade Route 
chart above.