In this game, each player takes on the role of a Chinese prince, seeking to
maximize the prosperity and prestige of his province in the ancient China
of approximately 1,000 A.D. To assist in these endeavors, the princes
must call upon the diverse talents of their courtiers, from scholars and
monks to warriors and craftsmen. These loyal subjects will lend their
expertise to the struggle to shield their rulers from the often disastrous
consequences of the myriad untoward events that plague the populace
from month to month. Be it drought, contagion or Mongol invasion,
only foresight and planning will spare the princes and their subjects from
these fates.
The better a player can manage his province and withstand the seemingly
unending onslaught of hazardous events, the more honor and victory
points he will have to show for it in the end.
THE GOAL
CONTENTS
“He who has no vision for the small things also blinds himself to the greater design.”
(Confucius, 551 – 479 B.C.)
 1 Game Board
60 Cards (per player: 11 Person Cards and 1 Game 
 Overview)
90 Person Tiles (10 each: Craftsmen, Court Ladies,
 Pyrotechnists, Tax Collectors, Warriors, Monks,
 Healers, Farmers, Scholars)
66 Palace Floors
36 “Yuan” Coins (21 silver of value 1,
 and 15 gold of value 3)
24 Rice Tiles 
12 Fireworks Tiles
12 Event Tiles (2 each: Peace, Drought, Contagion,
 Mongol Invasion, Imperial Tribute, Dragon Festival)
 8 Privilege Tiles (5 small, 3 large)
 7 Action Cards
 5 Dragons (1 per player)
 5 Stands (1 per dragon)
 5 Scoring Markers (8-sided markers, 1 per player)
 5 Person Markers (round markers, 1 per player)
If you are reading these rules for the first time, we recommend that you disregard the
bold text in the boxes on the right-hand side of each page. This text is meant to serve as
a quick refresher to help you remember these rules in later games.
Stefan Feld
GOAL
Players take on the role of
Chinese provincial princes
They call upon the assistance
of their court personalities to
see them through the often
troublesome events that befall
their provinces
The player who best survives
these difficult times will have
the most victory points to show
for it in the end

PREPARATION
Before your first game, carefully punch out all of the tiles from their frames, and place the
dragons in their stands.
Place the game board in the middle of the table. Set up the rest of the
pieces as shown in the diagram to the right:
- The Person Tiles: First, sort these tiles by their color. Then sort them
again according to their level of “experience”. Of the 9 types of person tiles,
6 are divided by experience. For the tiles divided in this way, there will be
6 younger, less experienced persons (their tiles have fewer symbols and
higher values), and 4 older, more experienced persons (with more symbols
and a lower value). Place the older persons in the first row, which contains
2 sections, each with space for 3 tile types. Then place the matching
younger persons below them in the second row. The craftsmen
(beige), court ladies (ochre) and tax collectors (yellow) only come
in the younger version; sort these into piles by type and place
them in the three middle spaces of the second row.
Note: Only in a 5-player game will you place all 10 person tiles of 
each type on the display. When playing with fewer, return 2 tiles of
each type per missing player to the box (1 younger and 1 older for the
tiles divided into those groups; and 2 younger for the others – craftsmen,
court ladies and tax collectors). This means that, when playing with 4,
there will be 8 tiles of each type in the game; with 3, there will be 6 of
each; and with 2, there will be 4 of each.
- The Event Tiles: Locate the 2 peace tiles, and place them
face up in the first 2 spaces of the event row at the bottom of
the board (containing 12 light-colored spaces). Shuffle the
remaining 10 tiles face down and draw 1 at a time randomly,
placing them face up as you go from left to right in the other 10
spaces in the event row. With the exception of the 2 peace tiles, there
may never be 2 identical event tiles next to each other, so if you draw 2
of a kind in a row, slide the second one over to the next free space.
- The 7 Action Cards: Thoroughly shuffle the 7 action cards and place
them in a face down pile in the middle space on the board.
Each player takes the following pieces, in the color of his choice:
- 1 person marker (round), placing it on the 0 space of the person track
(the inner track in the middle of the board);
- 1 scoring marker (8-sided), placing it on the 0 space of the scoring track
around the outside of the board;
- 1 dragon (in a stand), placing it in his playing area;
- 11 person cards (of the player’s chosen color), forming the player’s hand
of cards;
- 1 game overview, placing it handy near his playing area. The front side
shows an overview of the game’s phases, and the back side displays the
actions and events in brief.
Additionally, each player takes 4 palace floors and builds 2 palaces with
2 stories each in his playing area, and takes 6 yuan (3 silver and 1 gold).
(Each player should place his money next to his palaces for all to see. Players may exchange
1 gold coin with 3 silver coins from the supply at any time during the game.)
Sort the remaining coins, along with all of the other pieces (palace floors,
rice tiles, fireworks tiles, privilege tiles) into a general supply above the
board (see the above diagram to the right). 
PREPARATION
Place the person tiles on the
board (sorted by younger and
older), along with the event tiles
(2 peace tiles first, then randomly),
and the action cards (in a face
down pile)
Each player takes:
· 1 person marker (person track)
· 1 scoring marker (scoring track)
· 1 dragon
· 11 person cards
· 1 game overview
· 4 palace floors (2 2-story palaces)
· 6 yuan
Place the remaining pieces
(money, rice sacks, fireworks,
privileges, palace floors) handy
above the board 
The person tiles (1st row, tiles with more symbols;
 2nd row, tiles with fewer)
The discard pile for person cards
The 7 action cards
The 12 event tiles (2 peace tiles, then random)
The scoring markers
The person markers

PLAYING THE GAME
Before the game begins,
each player must summon his first 2 subjects to court. The oldest player
starts. He takes 2 different person tiles of his choosing from the second row
(i.e., the younger persons). In clockwise order, the other players then
choose their first 2 persons, following the same restrictions. Additionally,
no player may take the exact same combination of 2 persons as any other
player before him.
 Example: As the start player, Anna takes a tax collector and a scholar. Next,
 Benno takes a tax collector and a farmer. When he finishes, Clara takes a scholar
 and a farmer. Therefore, the remaining players may not take a combination of tax
 collector/scholar, tax collector/farmer or farmer/scholar…
Now, and throughout the game, every player must place each person tile
he takes below any 1 of his palaces. A palace with 1 story may only
contain 1 person tile; a palace with 2 stories may hold up to 2 person
tiles; and a palace with 3 stories may hold up to 3 person tiles. A palace
may never have more than 3 stories.
Every time that a player takes a new person tile and places it below 1 of
his palaces, he must also immediately move his person marker forward on
the person track the full number of spaces shown on the newly assigned
person tile (values 1 to 6). If his marker lands on the same space as that
of another player, he simply places it on top of that player’s marker.
 Example: In the above example, Anna moves her person marker to space 7.
 Benno must then move his marker to the same place, so he places his on top of
 Anna’s. Clara goes next, moving her marker to space 8.
The game consists of exactly 12 rounds, symbolizing the 12 months in the
Year of the Dragon. Each round consists of the following 4 phases, in order:
Shuffle the 7 action cards at the start of this phase. Then place them, still
face down, in the large center space on the board in as many groups as
there are players (e.g., if there are 2 players, they are divided into 2 groups;
if there are 3 players, 3 groups, etc.). The cards should be divided as evenly
as possible. Afterward, turn the cards face up, making sure they are visible
to all.
Example for a display
in a 4-player game
After the display is complete, the player whose person marker is farthest
ahead on the person track selects 1 group, places his dragon on it, and
carries out exactly 1 of the actions in the chosen group. Next, the player
whose marker is second farthest on the person track does the same, and
so on. This means that player turn order is not determined by the way the
players are seated but rather is governed throughout the game by the players’
positions on the person track.
Before the game begins, each
player takes 2 person tiles and
places them in his palaces (only
younger, never 2 of the same, no
identical combinations between
players)
A palace may only contain 1
person per floor
No palace may have more than
3 floors
Players must always move their
person markers forward the
number of spaces on their new
person tiles
PLAYING THE GAME
Each round consists of 4 phases,
in order:
Lay out action cards in 2 to
5 groups:
2 Players:
3 Players:
4 Players:
5 Players:
The player whose marker is
farthest on the person track is
first to take 1 action 

In player order, all of the other players take turns choosing a group of
cards (a player may select a group that was already chosen by a previous
player), placing their dragons on them, and carrying out the action
shown on any 1 card in the chosen group (including an action taken by
a previous player).
When all players have taken an action in order of the person track, they
take back their dragons, and place all of the action cards in a face down
pile again in the middle space on the board.
Note: If a player chooses a group of cards already chosen by at least 1
other player that round (meaning, there is at least 1 dragon on it), he
must pay 3 yuan (by returning the appropriate coins to the general
supply), or else he may not take any action from that group or place his
dragon on it.
 Example: Doro would like to take an action from a group of cards that already
 has 2 dragons on it. She pays 3 yuan to the supply and performs an action of her
 choice from that group.
Instead of placing his dragon on 1 of the groups of cards and carrying out
an action from it, a player may skip the first phase completely and bring
his personal supply of money up to 3 yuan. In other words, he does not
necessarily take 3 yuan, but only as many coins as necessary to give him a
total of 3 yuan!
 Example: Emil does not want to take any action, preferring to stock up on money.
 He has 1 yuan already, so he takes 2 more from the general supply. This concludes
 Phase 1 for Emil.
The Individual Actions in Detail:
Taxes
When a player chooses this action, he takes 1 yuan from the supply for
each of the 2 coins shown on the card as well as 1 additional yuan for each
coin shown on any tax collectors (yellow) he has in his palaces.
Note: We do not intend the game to run short of pieces, except for the person tiles.
All other tiles (such as money, privileges, palace floors, rice, fireworks, etc.) should be
considered unlimited, so temporarily substitute any suitable markers for any that run
short. 
 Example: Clara chooses the action “Taxes.” She has no tax collectors in her palaces.
 Accordingly, she takes 2 yuan from the general supply. Next, Doro, who has 2 tax
 collectors, chooses the same action, so she pays 3 yuan to the general supply (because
 Clara already has her dragon on this group), and then takes 8 back from the supply
 (2 + 3 + 3).
Build
When a player chooses this action, he takes 1 palace floor from the
general supply for the hammer shown on the action card as well as 1
additional palace floor for each hammer shown on any craftsmen (beige)
in his palaces.
The player may build these new palace floors as he chooses: he can either
add floors to his existing palaces (bearing in mind that no palace can have
more than 3 floors), or he can build new palaces from 1 to 3 stories high.
A player may own as many palaces as he likes.
If multiple person markers share a space,
players take turns in top-to-bottom order,
according to the markers.
In this example, players take turns as
follows: yellow first, green second, blue
third, purple fourth, red fifth
All other players carry out 1
action each in order of their
person markers on the person
track 
If a player selects a group of
cards previously chosen by
another player, he must pay
3 yuan
Instead of taking an action, a
player can replenish his money
up to 3 yuan
The Actions
 
 Taxes:
 Take 1 yuan from the 
 supply for each coin symbol
(on the card and the player’s tax
collectors)
 Build:
 Take 1 palace floor from 
 the supply for each hammer
(on the card and the player’s
craftsmen), then build the new
floors; no palace higher than 3
floors 

Note: A player may only build the newly acquired floors. Already placed
palace floors may not be rearranged.
 Example: Emil chooses the action “Build.” He has 2 craftsmen in his palaces:
 Emil takes 3 palace floors from the supply. He uses 2 to transform an existing
 1-story palace into a 3-story palace, and with the third, he starts a new 1-story
 palace.
Harvest
When a player chooses this action, he takes 1 rice tile from the general
supply for the rice sack shown on the action card as well as 1 additional
rice tile for each rice sack shown on any farmers (green) in his palaces
(placing them next to his palaces in plain view).
The use of these tiles will be explained later, under the section for the “Drought” event.
 Example: Anna takes the action “Harvest.” She has 1 younger farmer (1 rice sack)
 and 1 older farmer (2 rice sacks) in her palaces. Therefore, she takes a total of 4 rice
 tiles from the supply (1 + 1 + 2).
Fireworks Display
When a player chooses this action, he takes 1 fireworks tile from the
supply for the rocket shown on the card as well as 1 additional fireworks
tile for each rocket shown on any pyrotechnists (purple) in his palaces
(placing them next to his palaces in plain view).
The use of these tiles will be explained later, under the section for the “Dragon Festival”
event.
Military Parade
When a player chooses this action, he moves his person marker 1 space
forward on the person track for the helmet shown on the action card as well
as 1 space for each helmet shown on any warriors (red) in his palaces.
 Example: Benno takes the action “Military Parade.” He has 2 older warriors
 (2 helmets apiece) in his palaces, so he moves his person marker forward 5 spaces
 (1 + 2 +2). 
Research
When a player chooses this action, he moves his scoring marker 1 space
forward on the scoring track for the book shown on the action card as
well as 1 space for each additional book shown on the scholars (white) in
his palaces.
 Example: Doro takes the action “Research.” She has 1 younger scholar (2 books)
 and 1 older scholar (3 books) in her palaces, so she moves her scoring marker forward
 6 points (1 + 2 + 3).
Privilege
When a player chooses this action, he pays either 2 yuan to obtain a small
privilege or 6 yuan for a large privilege (paying the money to the general
supply). He places this privilege tile next to his palaces.
A player may only purchase 1 privilege per action, even if he has the money
for more. A player may accumulate as many privileges as he likes. At the
end of each round, players score 1 victory point for each dragon shown on
their privilege tiles.
Note: Dragons are synonymous with victory points. Therefore, dragons appear on privileges,
scholars’ texts and the fans of the court ladies.
 Harvest:
 Take 1 rice tile from the 
 supply for each rice sack
(on the card and the player’s farmers)
 Fireworks Display:
 Take 1 fireworks tile from 
 the supply for each rocket
(on the card and the player’s
pyrotechnists)
 Military Parade:
 Move 1 space on the person 
 track for each helmet (on
the card and the player’s warriors)
 Research:
 Move 1 space on the scoring 
 track for each book (on the
card and the player’s scholars)
 Privilege:
 Pay 2, or 6, yuan to the 
 supply and take a small,
or large, privilege tile from the
supply accordingly
 
 = small (2 yuan)
 = large (6 yuan)

After everyone has taken an action or replenished his supply of yuan to
3, each player, in the order shown on the person track (which may have
changed through the action “Military Parade”), plays 1 person card from
his hand onto the common discard pile on the board. The player then
takes the matching person tile from the board and places it below any 1
of his palaces. If all of his palaces are full, he may replace 1 of his existing
person tiles. The displaced courtier is then “released from royal service”.
All persons released in this manner are removed from the game (which
means they are not placed in their pile on the board again!).
Afterward, the player moves his person marker forward on the person
track the number of spaces equal to the value on the new person tile.
Note:
Person markers are never moved backward when a person gets released (due to
replacement or an event).
Acquiring new persons does not entitle a player to immediately take new rice tiles,
fireworks tiles, money, victory points, etc. Rather, the person tiles generate resources
only through corresponding actions chosen by the player in later action phases.
When a player plays a card with a question mark, he may choose any person tile
from the display.
As long as a player has room in his palaces, he must summon new persons to his
court. If all of his palaces are full, and he does not want to replace any of his existing
courtiers, he can instead release the new person forthwith by removing the tile from
the game when he acquires it.
However, in this case, he does not move his marker on the person track.
When a player plays a card showing a courtier whose tile is no longer available on
the board, he gets nothing (he does not get a “substitute” person).
In the 12th round, players skip the second phase because they will not have any
person cards in their hands at that point.
After each player plays a person card, a monthly event takes place. In the
first 2 rounds, the event is always “Peace”. In subsequent rounds, each
month’s event is dictated by the next event tile in the event row, going from
left to right in order. After that round’s event, turn the corresponding event
tile face down.
The Individual Events:
Peace: 
Nothing happens.
Imperial Tribute:
Each player must pay 4 yuan in tribute to the emperor (placing the coins
into the general supply). If a player does not have enough money, he must
release 1 person of his choosing from any 1 of his palaces for each missing
yuan.
Note: Players may not voluntarily release a person from their court in an effort to
hold onto their money. Moreover, the coins pictured on the players’ tax collectors do
not count for anything when paying tribute.
 Example: Clara only has 2 yuan. She must pay these in tribute, and for the missing
 2 yuan, she must release 2 persons from her palaces.
In the order shown on the person
track, each player:
· plays 1 person card from his
 hand,
· takes the matching person tile,
· places it in 1 of his palaces,
· moves his person marker forward
If all of a player’s palaces are full,
he can replace an existing person
tile in a palace of his choosing 
 
 = any person tile
 
There are 6 different event types:
peace, imperial tribute, drought,
Mongol invasion, dragon festival
and contagion
Peace:
Nothing happens
Imperial Tribute:
Each player pays
4 yuan 
For each yuan a player
is short, release 1 person

Drought:
Each player must return 1 rice tile to the supply for each palace in which
he has at least 1 person. If a player does not have enough rice tiles, he must
release 1 person from each palace that he cannot supply (in which case the
affected player chooses which palace(s) will go unsupplied). 
Note: Players may not voluntarily release a person in an effort to hold onto rice tiles.
Moreover, the rice pictured on the farmers does not count for anything during a drought.
 Example: Anna has 3 inhabited palaces and 1 empty palace along with 4 rice tiles.
 Anna returns 3 rice tiles to the supply and thereby withstands the drought.
 Benno also has 3 inhabited palaces, but he has no rice tiles. Benno must release 1
 person from each of his 3 palaces.
Dragon Festival:
The player or players with the most fireworks tiles get 6 victory points,
and the players with the second most get 3 victory points. Afterward,
the scoring players must return half of their fireworks tiles to the supply
(rounding up where necessary). 
Note: If multiple players tie for first, they all get the full 6 points, and the players in
second place still get their points. Players who have no fireworks tiles cannot score any
points. The rockets pictured on the pyrotechnists do not count for anything during
dragon festival scoring.
 Example: Clara and Emil each have 3 fireworks tiles. Anna has 2, and Benno 1.
 Clara and Emil each get 6 points (and turn in 2 fireworks tiles), whereas Anna gets
 3 points (and turns in 1 tile). Benno gets nothing (and turns in nothing).
Mongol Invasion:
Each player moves his scoring marker forward on the scoring track as
many spaces as the total number of helmets on all warriors in his palaces.
Additionally, the player or players with the fewest helmets must each
release 1 person from any 1 of their palaces. (This can even be a warrior who
was just counted.)
Note: If all players have an equal number of helmets (including, for example, none),
then each must release 1 person from service.
 Example: Anna and Benno each have warriors in their palaces showing a total of 3
 helmets, whereas Clara has 2, and Doro and Emil have 1 helmet each. Anna and
 Benno move 3 spaces forward on the scoring track, Clara moves 2, and Doro and
 Emil move 1. Afterward, Doro and Emil must each release 1 person from among
 their palaces.
Contagion:
Each player must release 3 persons of their choosing from their palaces.
A player can protect his province from the spread of disease through the
services of his healers (blue) in that, for each mortar pictured on a player’s
healers, he releases 1 fewer person.
 Example: Clara has 2 younger healers (each with 1 mortar) in her palaces.
 Consequently, she loses 1 person instead of 3. (This may include a healer who just
 protected her.)
General Rule: If multiple players are required to release courtiers from service at once,
the dismissals occur in the player order shown on the person track.
Drought:
Each player must turn
in 1 rice tile for each
inhabited palace
Release 1 person from
each unsupplied palace
Dragon Festival:
Players get 6, or 3,
victory points for
the most, or the
second most, fireworks tiles
Scoring players then turn in half
of their tiles to the supply
Mongol Invasion:
Each player scores
points equal to
their helmets
The player(s) with the fewest must
each release a single person
Contagion:
Each player
must release
3 persons
1 fewer per mortar

GAME END
The game ends after scoring is complete at the end of the 12th round.
Then, each player earns additional victory points in a final scoring as
follows:
- for each person: each person tile in a player’s palaces is worth 2 victory
 points;
- for each monk (brown): to calculate the points produced by each monk,
 multiply the number of Buddhas on the monk by the number of floors
 in the palace the monk inhabits;
- for the player’s remaining money: first, each player sells back to the
 supply all of his rice and fireworks tiles for 2 yuan each. Afterward, each
 player earns 1 victory point for every 3 yuan he possesses.
 Example: At the end of the game, Benno has 7 courtiers in his palaces (including 1
 younger monk in a 2-story palace and 1 older monk in a 3-story palace), 1 rice tile,
 2 fireworks tiles and 4 yuan. Benno scores a total of 25 additional victory points:
 - 14 points for the 7 persons;
 - 8 points for the 2 monks: 2 (1 x 2) + 6 (2 x 3) = 8;
 - 3 points for his 10 yuan (10 divided by 3) (with 10 yuan representing the 4 he
 already had plus the 6 he gained from the sale of his 1 rice and 2 fireworks tiles).
The winner and most successful ruler is the player whose marker is farthest
on the scoring track at game’s end. In the case of a tie, the winner is the
player (among those who are tied) whose marker is farthest ahead on the
person track.
© 2007 Stefan Feld
© 2007 Ravensburger Spieleverlag
Decay
After an event occurs, each player must check to see if he has any
uninhabited palaces. If so, each such palace must be reduced by 1 floor
(returning lost palace floors to the supply). Note that this can lead to the
complete disappearance of an unpopulated, one-story palace.
Note: Because of this rule, there is no point in a player choosing the “Build” action to
create a one-story palace without assigning a person to it in the very next person phase!
After the current event is finished, and any palaces have fallen into decay,
each player moves his scoring marker forward on the scoring track, earning
1 point apiece for:
- each of his palaces (regardless of whether they are inhabited or how many
 floors they have),
- each dragon on the fans of his court ladies, and
- each dragon on his privileges.
 Example: Anna has 3 palaces containing, among other courtiers, 2 court ladies, and
 1 large privilege: she moves her scoring marker forward 7 spaces (3 + 2 + 2).
The round is finished, and a new one can begin …
226659
Decay:
After each event, all uninhabited
palaces lose 1 floor
Each player scores victory points
for: 
· palaces (1 point each) 
· court ladies (1 point each)
· privileges (1 point per dragon)
GAME END
The game ends after the scoring
phase of the 12th round
Each player gets additional
victory points for
· person tiles (2 points each)
· monks (Buddhas x floors)
· coins (3 yuan = 1 point)
The player with the most
victory points wins
 
If you have any comments, suggestions,
or questions, please email us at
RioGames@aol.com
or write us at
Rio Grande Games,
PO Box 45715,
Rio Rancho, NM 87174, USA.
Also, please visit our web site at
www.riograndegames.com.
English translation by
Christine Biancheria.