Grégory Grard & Matthieu Verdier
 Maud Briand & David Sitbon
Rulebook

The voyage of the Beagle (1831-1836).
HMS Beagle being hailed by native Fuegians, by Conrad Martens (1833).
The Voyage of HMS Beagle
The voyage lasted almost ﬁve years, until October, 1836: Cape Verde 
Islands, South American coast, Galapagos Islands (where Darwin 
observed 13 diﬀerent species of “mockingbirds” that would prove 
essential to elaborate his future theory), Tahiti, New Zealand, Australia, 
Tasmania, Cocos Island, Maldives, Mauritius, Saint Helena, Ascension 
Island, Le Cap, Brazil, back to Cape Verde, Azores, and back home.
Happy to see these landscapes that he dreamed of, and free to go wherever 
he wanted (most of the time, he would explore the land), Darwin 
noted all of his geological and zoological observations in a notebook, 
gathered living organisms or fossils, and methodically maintained a rich 
collection of specimen, most of them unknown to science at that time.
About Charles Darwin
Charles Darwin (1809-1882) was an English 
naturalist. The ﬁfth of six children, he grew 
up up in a wealthy and educated family. 
 
His grandfather Erasmus Darwin was a 
famous poet, botanist and zoologist. 
Darwin went to the University of Edinburgh Medical School in 
1825. He soon showed interest in natural history, particularly about 
marine invertebrates. Two years later, he joined the Christ’s College of 
Cambridge. His years at Cambridge developed his interest in the living 
world, fueled by his botany teacher, John Stevens Henslow (1795-1861).
Charles Darwin in 1816, 
aged 7.
Plans of H.M.S Beagle.
Darwin expressed his gratitude to John Henslow by sen-
ding detailed letters that precisely described his unpre-
cedented observations, along with wise comments. 
Henslow published several of these letters without 
telling Darwin; when Darwin came back, he dis-
covered that he was considered as one of the hopes 
of the young generation by many British scientists.

Becoming Part of the Scientiﬁc 
Establishment; First Writings
In 1838, Darwin became Secretary of the 
Geological Society. One year later, aged 30, 
he became a member of the Royal Society – 
always reluctant to become a teacher because of 
his diﬃcult college years though. 
The next year, he married his cousin Emma Wedgwood and published 
Journal of Researches, his notes about his expedition on the Beagle – the 
book would become famous under the name The Voyage of the Beagle. 
Patagonian Pampas Cat (Felis pajeros), 
illustration from Darwin’s Voyage of the 
Beagle, 1939.
On the Origin of Species
In 1842, Darwin decided to settle in a small 
town in Kent. Despite frequent nausea, vertigos, 
insomnia and weaknesses (whose cause was 
never identiﬁed), he led a quiet and country-
style life there, methodically studying what 
he brought back from the Beagle expedition. 
Every day, he kept noting his observations, 
pursuing a habit that was born on the Beagle 
and that he would keep until his death in 
1882. In Summer 1858, an event caused his 
theory of natural selection to gain momentum: as Darwin was working 
on it, Alfred Wallace, also a naturalist, sent him an essay that described the 
same idea, prompting immediate joint publication of both their theories. 
Darwin’s book, On the Origin of Species, was an immediate success. 
Darwin 
started 
to 
elaborate 
his 
natural 
selection 
theory 
by 
observing the beak of 
several birds from the 
Galapagos Islands. 
Six editions would be released 
until 1872, each time with 
important 
modiﬁcations. 
Darwin 
amended 
entire 
paragraphs to answer the 
critics with detailed arguments, 
to 
correct 
some 
mistakes, 
and to sharpen his theory. 
In the end, the sixth edition 
had 150 pages more than 
the ﬁrst edition, and ﬁfteen 
chapters instead of fourteen. 
Follow the trail of Darwin 
and embark on the Beagle!
The year is 1856. To complete the writing of On the 
Origin of Species, Darwin needs you! Twenty years 
after his expedition around the world, he wants to gather new 
information about animal life, particularly on continents where 
he barely set foot, such as North America, Asia and part of Africa.
Now too old and too busy writing and taking care 
of his family, he entrusts you with this mission – 
after all, you were recommended by his colleagues 
from the Royal Society of London! Who else than 
young naturalists eager for discovery could help the 
renowned scholar to complete the writing of his most famous work?
Tangara darwini, illustration 
from Darwin’s Voyage of the 
Beagle, 1939.
Charles Darwin, end of 1830s, 
by George Richmond.

1 Place the board, Journey side up, at the center of the table, then 
place the Beagle on its starting space
.
2 Give a Naturalist’s notebook to each player, henceforth called 
a “naturalist” in the rulebook. The last naturalist who traveled by ship 
takes the Darwin token: they will start the game. If no naturalist has 
ever traveled by ship, choose your favorite way to determine who will 
play ﬁrst.
3 Place the Guide, Publication and Compass tokens on the dedi-
cated spaces of the Journey board.
4 A. Take 12 tiles from the box for each naturalist in play, then 
form several face down piles, that you place next to the Journey board. 
B. Take another 9 tiles from the box and place them face up on each 
of the 9 spaces of the Journey board (for example, take 24 + 9 = 33 tiles 
in a game with 2 naturalists). 
5 A. Deal a Theory tile to each naturalist. They must place it face up 
on their topmost Theory space, at the top right of their notebook. 
B. Then, form two face-down Theory draw piles and place them on the 
dedicated spaces of the Journey board. Then, draw 3 of them and place 
them face up on their dedicated spaces.
6 Each naturalist takes a Guide token and places it on the dedicated 
space.
Theme and goal of the game
1 score pad
1 1 cloth bag
1 rulebook
1 appendix booklet
Players are junior naturalists just arrived aboard the Beagle to help Charles Darwin ﬁnish his 
book On the Origin of Species. During this journey, you will study animals, carry out cartographic 
surveys, publish your ﬁndings and develop theories. Your goal is to score more Victory Points 
(VP) than your opponents to determine who contributed the most to the Origin of Species!
Before your ﬁrst game:
Shuﬄe the 64 Animal tiles and the 5 Character tiles together, 
then store them in the dedicated area of the box.
Components
Setup
1 Journey board
64 Animal tiles
16 Publication 
10 Guide
1 Darwin
token
1 Beagle
ﬁgure
15 Compass 
5 Character tiles
28 Theory tiles
5 Naturalist’s notebooks
• “appendix” side 
• “journey” side
Designers’ note:
Not as well-known as birds, mammals and 
reptiles, arthropods
 arthropods regroup 
insects, crustaceans, chelicerates (spiders 
and scorpions) and myriapods (centipedes). 
They represent half of all known species! 
To simplify and diversify, we added an 
annelid (Giant Gippsland earthworm) to 
the Arthropod category although it does 
not belong to it.

1 Class of the animal 
Arthropod
 Mammal 
Bird 
, Reptile 
4 Emblematic animal icon. 
3 Bonus when you study the animal 
(either an immediate or an endgame bonus).
3 Bonus when you take 
inspiration from the 
character.
1 Character icon.
2 Character’s name, occupation, 
 date of birth, date of death. 
2 Name (English and Latin), 
size and ecosystem of the animal.
America Africa Asia Oceania
How to play
What’s on an Animal tile?
What’s on a Character tile?
Starting with the naturalist controlling the Darwin token, 
naturalists take turns in clockwise order. On their turn, a 
naturalist performs these two steps in order: 
1 Study an Animal or Take inspiration 
from a Character.
2 Voyage of the Beagle.
The game ends after each naturalist has placed exactly 12 
tiles (Animal or Character) on their notebook.
1 Study an Animal or Take 
inspiration from a Character 
Choose one of the 3 tiles facing the Beagle and place it onto 
your Naturalist’s notebook. It may be either an animal to 
study or a character from the Beagle’s previous journey who 
will inspire you.
Example : the Beagle is facing a Coral Snake, an Armadillo 
girdled lizard and a Japanese crane 1 . Anna decides to study 
the Japanese crane and places it on her notebook. 2 

Example : Anna studies a Keel-billed toucan, which comes with a 
Compass token. She immediately takes the token and places it at 
the bottom of her notebook.
Discover: these animals are an important discovery for the 
scientiﬁc community: they will be worth 
 or 
 VP at 
the end of the game.
Example : Anna studies a Japanese 
crane, which will earn her 
 at the 
end of the game if it is still visible.
Example : Louison studies a Black Mamba and therefore 
immediately hires a guide, which she places on her notebook. 
She may use them later in the game to perform a special action 
(Sail or Probe).
Example : Louison studies a Saltwater 
crocodile, which will earn her 1 VP for 
each compass she has at the end of the 
game if it is still visible.
Chart: these animals are worth VP at the end of the game 
depending on the number of Compasses you have.
Survey: immediately take a Compass token and place it in 
the Survey area at the bottom of your notebook You may not 
have more than 5 of these tokens: should you be to take a 6th one, 
you may study the animal, but you do not take the compass.
Hire a guide: immediately take a Guide token and place 
it on an empty Guide space of your notebook. You may not 
have more than 2 of these tokens: should you be to hire a 3rd 
guide, you may study the animal, but you do not hire the guide.
Emblematic: immediately take the Darwin token from whoever 
controls it and place it next to your notebook. If you were the one 
controlling it, nothing happens. At the end of the game, the naturalist 
controlling the Darwin token scores 
.
Example : Louison studies a Moose, 
which has a
icon. Since Anna 
controls the Darwin token, Louison takes 
it from her and places it next to her 
own notebook. It will earn her 
 
if she still controls it at the end of the game.
Study an animal
Take the animal and place it on the space in your notebook matching 
their ecosystem and their class, then resolve their immediate bonus, if any: 

A
B
Example : Anna takes inspiration from Conrad 
Martens. She places the tile on her notebook, then 
resolves its bonus: it counts as 1 Chart and allows 
her to hire a Guide.
2 Voyage of the Beagle
After placing a tile (Animal or Character) on your notebook, resolve these steps in order:
A) Move the Beagle as many spaces forward 
 (following the 
arrows) as the distance between Beagle and the tile you just selected 
(i.e. 1, 2 or 3 spaces).
B) Draw a new tile and place it face up on the empty space of the 
Journey board.
If the tile is a Character tile, place it on an 
available space on the left side of your 
notebook, then gain its bonus. 
You may not be inspired by more than 3 characters. 
Characters’ bonuses are detailed on page 12 of this rulebook.
Take inspiration from a character

Special actions
Use a Guide
Exemple : 
at the beginning of her turn, 
Louison uses a Guide to 
Probe 
1 : she discards 
the 3 tiles facing the Beagle, 
returns them to the bottom of 
any draw pile 2 and reveals 
3 new tiles 
3 . Then, she 
plays her turn as usual: she 
studies an Emu, then moves 
the Beagle one space forward 
following the arrows 
4 .
At the beginning of your turn, before selecting an Animal or 
Character tile, you may use a single one of your Guides (by 
returning the token to the Journey board) to perform one of the 
following special actions: 
Sail : move the Beagle one space back or forward. 
Then, play your turn as usual.
Probe : discard the 3 tiles facing the Beagle 
and place them face down in any order at the 
bottom of any draw pile: replace them with 
3 tiles from any draw pile. Then, play your turn 
as usual.
Example : at the beginning of her turn, Louison uses a Guide 
to Sail 1 , because she wishes to study an Elephant, worth 
 at the end of the game 2 . She moves the Beagle one 
space back 3 and plays her turn: she studies the Elephant , 
and then moves the Beagle two spaces forward following the 
arrows 4 .

Write a Publication
Develop a Theory 
Example : Anna studies 
an Imperial eagle and 
must stack it on top of 
the Japanese crane she 
studied earlier, because 
both animals share the 
same class and the same 
ecosystem 1 . Then, she 
takes a Theory tile, that 
she places on the right 
side of her notebook 2 
Each time you cover all 4 spaces of a given ecosystem or class (i.e. 
by completing a column or a row on your notebook), you write a 
publication! Take any publication token on the Journey board 
and place it on the dedicated space at the top left of your notebook. 
Should you write more publications later in the game, simply stack 
the tokens.
IMPORTANT : if you cover the 4 spaces of an ecosystem or a class 
that you already completed before, you cannot write a Publication 
again that way.
When you study an animal from a class and an ecosystem you 
already studied, place the tile on top of the previous one, then 
resolve its immediate bonus, if any. The covered tile remains 
there but any VP value or 
 icon on it will now be 
ignored. If you cover another icon ( 
 ), nothing 
happens: you do not have to return these elements.
Then, take a Theory tile among the 3 on display, or from the top 
of any draw pile. Place this Theory on the next available space of 
your notebook: its VP will be checked at the end of the game. You 
may own both copies of the same Theory if you wish to.
Then, if you took a Theory from the row, reveal a new one from 
any draw pile to complete the row. 
Important : you may not have more than 6 Theories. If you take 
a 7th one, return one of your choice (possibly the one you just took) 
to the bottom of any draw pile. Should you need to draw a Theory 
and the row is empty, nothing happens.
Important : you may cover the same animal space of your 
notebook several times.
Exemple : Louison studies a Giraﬀe, which causes her to have 
covered all the Mammals spaces of her notebook 1 : she takes 
a Publication token and places it at the top left of her note-
book 2 

 
Score VP in the following categories:
 Discoveries : add up VP from your visible discovered animals 
(VP from covered animals are ignored). If you have been inspired 
by Robert McCormick, add his 
 to this category.
Add up these 5 categories: the naturalist with the most VP wins the game. If there is a tie, the naturalist with the most VP in the Theory 
category wins the game. If there is still a tie, the tied naturalists share the victory.
 Publications : score 
 for each Publication you wrote.
 Theories : check your Theories and score their VP 
(see next page).
 Token Darwin: if you control it, had 
to this category. 
Example : Anna scores: 
 4 VP for Discoveries:
 for the Great white pelican, 
 for the Ostrich. 
 12VP for Chart: she has 4 visible
 icons (Okapi, Armadillo girdled 
lizard, Tsetse ﬂy and Conrad Martens) and 3 
 in the Survey area of her notebook.
 
 10VP for Publications (she wrote two).
 
 12VP for Theories : 
 per animal from Africa (6VP), 
 
per visible Emblematic animal 
 (4VP because she developed this Theory twice), 
and 
 per Reptile (2VP).
 
 because she controls the Darwin token.
End of the game
When the last tile from the draw pile is placed onto the Journey board, the game ends. 
This happens once each naturalist has placed exactly 12 tiles (Animal and/or Character) on 
their notebook.
When you win the game, check whether you completed one of the achievements below. If you did, write down your name in the empty box!
Darwinism - Scored 50 VP or more.
Mentor - Took inspiration from 3 Characters.
Expert - 
 Wrote 3 Publications.
Theorist - 
 Developed 6 Theories.
Cartographer - 
 Collected 5 Compasses .
Observer - Scored 20 VP or more in the Discoveries category. 
Natural selection - Studied 3 animals from the same class and ecosystem.
Cultural exchange - 
Ended the game with 2 Guides.
Emblematic - 
Had 4 visible Emblematic animals.
Diversiﬁcation - Had 
visible.
 
Achievements
Anna’s score is 40 VP! 
 Chart : multiply the number of Compasses 
 
you own by the number of visible
 icons you own. 

Theories
Characters
Chapter 1 – Variation under domestication.
 Score 1 VP for each Bird you studied, including those you covered.
Chapter 2 – Variation under nature.
Score 1 VP for each Mammal you studied, including 
Chapter 3 – Struggle for existence.
 Score 1 VP for each Reptile you studied, including 
Chapter 4 – Natural selection.
 Score 1 VP for each Arthropod you studied, including 
Chapter 5 – Laws of variation.
 Score 1 VP for each animal from America you studied, including 
Chapter 6 – Diﬃculties on theory.
 Score 1 VP for each animal from Africa you studied, including 
Chapter 7 – Miscellaneous objections to the theory of natural selection. 
Score 1 VP for each animal from Asia you studied, including 
Chapter 8 – Instinct. 
 Score 1 VP for each animal from Oceania you studied, including 
Chapter 9 – Hybridism.
Score 1 VP for each animal you studied in the top-left quarter 
of your Naturalist’s notebook, including those you covered.
Chapter 10 – On the imperfection of the geological record.
Score 1 VP for each animal you studied in the top-right quarter 
of your Naturalist’s notebook, including those you covered.
Chapter 11 – On the geological successions of organic beings.
Score 1 VP for each animal you studied in the bottom-left 
quarter of your Naturalist’s notebook, including those you covered.
Chapter 12 – Geographical distribution. 
Score 1 VP for each animal you studied in the bottom-right 
quarter of your Naturalist’s notebook, including those you covered.
Chapter 13 – Mutual aﬃnities of organic beings.
Score 1 VP for each of your Theories.
Chapter 14 – Morphology and embryology.
Score 2 VP for each visible Guide icon on your tiles.
Chapter 15 - Recapitulation.
Score 2 VP for each of your Publications.
Chapter 16 - Conclusion.
Score 1 VP for each visible Emblematic animal you studied.
Charles Darwin (1809-1882)
Naturalist. Boarding the Beagle at just 22, he travelled for 5 years around the world on 
the now famous ship, developing the theory of natural selection, which he published in 
1858 under the name On the Origin of Species.
Take 1 Theory tile among the 3 on display or from the top of any 
draw pile, then Hire a Guide.
Robert FitzRoy (1805-1865)
Ship captain. He was in charge of the H.M.S Beagle’s expedition dedicated to the 
hydrographic exploration of Southern American coasts (1831-1836). He then became 
governor of New Zealand (1843-1845).
Hire 2 Guides.
John Henslow (1795-1861)
 
Botanist. He was Charles Darwin’s teacher at the University of Cambridge and 
referenced him for the H.M.S. Beagle’s expedition. He published Darwin’s letters, 
contributing to his fame.
Survey and Hire a Guide.
Conrad Martens (1801-1878) 
Painter. Robert FitzRoy, whom he met in 1833 in Montevideo, hired him to replace the 
artist voyaging on the H.M.S. Beagle, who had fallen ill. When the Beagle stopped over 
in Australia, Martens decided to stay and live there, which he did until the end of his life.
Chart and Hire a Guide.
Robert Mc Cormick (1800-1890) 
Doctor. A surgeon working for the English Navy, he oﬃcially travelled aboard the Beagle 
as a naturalist. During his career he took part in other expeditions, including one aiming 
to ﬁnd the South pole.
Score 4 VP at the end of the game. Hire a Guide.
IMPORTANT : you may never have more than 2 Guide tokens. Should you be 
to hire a 3rd guide, you may take inspiration from the character, but you do not 
hire the guide. This rule also applies for your 6th compass if you take inspiration 
from John Henslow or for your 7th Theory if you take inspiration from Charles 
Darwin.