Colofon
Game design: Jeroen Doumen, Joris Wiersinga
Concept creation: Tamara Jannink
Graphic design: Ynze Moedt, Jeroen Kesselaar
www.moedtontwerpers.nl
Rule translations: Birgit Hugk, Torsten Hintz
Published by: Splotter Spellen, Langestraat 22, Leiden, 
The Netherlands, info@splotter.nl, http://www.splotter.nl
Playtesting: Hartmut Benz, Ileana Buhan, Beata Czenko, Marcin 
Czenko, Jeroen Doumen, Bianca van Duijl, Ferdy Hanssen, Alan 
How, Tamara Jannink, Ragnar Krempel, Maria Lijding, Raluca 
Marin-Perianu, Ynze Moedt, Mihai Marin-Perianu, Michel 
Rosien, Pieter Simoons, Lodewijk Smit, Henriëtte Verburg, Joris 
Wiersinga, Anna Zych, Arthur Zonnenberg. Thank you! Apologies 
if you are not on the list!
Comments & Questions A special thank you to all those people 
who bought our game and then wrote questions and comments on 
the web which have helped us improve the rules for this edition. 
Apologies if you are not on the list!
Doug Adams, Phil Alberg, Josh Bluestein, Dan Blum, David Boh-
nenberger, Malcolm Booker, A Brian, Lajos Brons, Eric Brosius, 
Mark Casiglio, Slim Chabbouch, Brad Cooley, Bruce Coram, Steve 
Cox, Derk, Dietevil, Jean-Roger Duvauchelle, Dave Eisen, Eric, 
Kenrick Fearn, Adriaan de Goeij, S. Graber, Darrell Hanning, 
Ron K, Enes Kadioglu, Daniel Karp, Steve Kearon, Chris Kolenda, 
Chad Krizan, Johan L, J C Lawrence, Joe Lee, Daniel Lokemoen, 
Lolo Mac, John McCoy, Mikko, Joshua Miller, Msaari, Ray 
Mulford, Ben Nevis, Nicolas, Richard Pardoe, Andrew Rintoul, 
Bill Romaniecki, Jennifer Schlickbernd, Colleen Simmons, Ben 
Spicher, John Weber, Andrew Young, Michelle Z.
Contents
Game board.
5 Player aids.
30 Player markers: 
6 wooden disks in each colour. 
48 Ships: 
6 sets of 8 ships.
23 City markers: 
12 city size 1, 8 city size 2, 3 city 
size 3 markers.
24 Company deeds.
214 Goods markers: 
54 rice, 44 spices, 40 rubber, 40 
siap faji and 36 oil.
15 City cards.
Money: 
40 coins each of 1 and 5 rupiah 
and banknotes of 10,50,100 and 
500 rupiah (respectively 40,30,30 
and 20 of each).
Game rulebook.
Deed of company 
that has operated
Deed of company 
that has not yet 
operated
Goods in the field
Goods delivered 
to city

Introducing the game
Judging by the smirk on the face of the Sultan of Solo, the busi-
nessman from North Sumatra has just made a mistake. And a 
costly one at that, too. He has paid way too much for merging his 
rubber company with the Sultan’s extensive rubber plantations: 
there are no ships in the area to transport the rubber to the boo-
ming cities of Java. And the Sultan is now dripping in cash—he 
can bribe city authorities so that his ships will gain preferential ac-
cess to those ports where they are competing. Or he might invest 
in building an oil imperium.
Indonesia is a game about getting rich. Whoever has the most 
money at the end of the game, wins.
In order to earn money players will start companies and operate 
them. There are two kinds of companies: production companies, 
and shipping companies. The shipping companies move goods 
produced by production companies to cities. This earns the ow-
ners of both companies some money, depending on which goods 
are sold and how far they have to be transported.
Give each player a player aid and 100 rupiah. Sort the city building 
cards into three piles (a, b and c). Deal each player one card of 
each pile. Hand each player a set of wooden player markers of one 
color. Each player places a marker on the first slot of each of the 
R&D tracks. Randomly select the player order and indicate this
on the order of play track. Sort the company deeds into three
 
The game is played during three game eras, named a, b and c. The 
game will end (during phase 1) as soon as era c comes to an end. 
In each era, a number of years will be played. Each year consists of 
seven phases, as shown on the player aid. Some phases consist of 
multiple rounds. Each phase is described in detail below. 
1. NEW ERA
A new era starts if, at the beginning of the “new era” phase, there 
are no companies of the previous era left to acquire, or if all the 
companies that are left are of one type (e.g., all spice companies). 
Note that companies that can no longer start because there is no 
valid starting area left for them are discarded automatically, which 
may cause a new era to start earlier.
When an era starts (this always happens in the first game year), 
two things happen: players place new cities, and new companies 
become available. 
Players place cities in order of play, using the city building card 
for that era (marked a, b, or c, respectively). The card indicates 
three provinces. A player must build a city in any of the provinces 
indicated. All new cities start as size 1 cities (green).
A city may be built in any empty land area that borders on the 
coast. Areas under cultivation (that is, containing goods) may not 
be used. In addition, each province may only contain one city. If 
this means a player cannot build a city on one of the three indica-
ted provinces, he must discard his city card and pass.
But wait— what’s that young fellow over there up to? Buying all 
the shipping lines? That might change the outlook... considerably 
in fact... let’s see...
Indonesia is a game in which 2-5 players build up an economy. 
As the game unfolds, the basic agricultural economy develops 
into early industry—the players getting rich in the meantime by 
producing and transporting goods, and by acquiring and merging 
companies at the right time, and for the right price. The game 
takes three to four hours to complete.
Successful companies grow, as do cities that are supplied by 
enough materials. In addition, players can invest in research, and 
they can speed up the development of the economy so that new ty-
pes of products become available. As the economy grows, players 
will develop strategic positions that they need to consolidate or 
defend. This they do by merging their own companies, or those of 
other players, into business imperiums that may stretch across the 
entire archipelago.
sets (a, b and c) and place the first set (the a’s) on their respective 
provinces (you can use the coordinate system to find locations 
easily). Agree if money will be open or closed. We prefer to play 
with players not revealing the amount of money they have but 
tastes differ. If you forget to agree, the amount of money players 
have will be secret. The game is now ready to start.
He also has to pass if there are no more size 1 city stones.
After each player has built cities, discard all remaining unacquired 
companies from the previous era and place the next set of com-
pany deeds on the map.
Game overview
Preparation
Playing the game
The Kalimantan Selatan Oil Company cannot start as there is no viable 
starting area. The deed is discarded instead.

Phase 2-3
2. BID FOR TURN ORDER
This phase determines the order of play for the following phases. 
During this phase, use the order of play determined in the pre-
vious year and indicated on the order of play track. Each player, 
starting with the first one in order of play, bids an amount of cash 
once. A bid of 0 is allowed. This cash is placed in the “Bank” box 
on his player aid.
Whoever has the highest bid gets to be first in the order of play, 
whoever has the second highest result plays second, etcetera. In 
case of a tie between two players, their order with respect to each 
other remains unchanged.
If players have invested in the “Turn Order Bid” on the R&D track, 
their bid is multiplied by the corresponding amount—so a bid of 
5 would be worth 25 for a player who has invested once in this 
ability. Players MUST use this ability if they have it.
The money transferred to the “Bank” box cannot be used for any 
reason for the remainder of the game, but does count for victory.
3. MERGERS
In this phase, players may announce mergers, and then bid for 
control of the new companies. Only players who have resear-
ched at least one step on the Mergers R&D track may announce 
mergers—skip this phase in the beginning of the game, when no 
player has conducted this research yet. However, every player with 
a free slot and both of the owners of the companies that are being 
merged may always join in the bidding, even if they have perfor-
med no Mergers R&D. 
Players may announce only one merger per round. The Mergers 
phase continues until no player wants to announce more mergers, 
so players can announce as many mergers as they want.
Announcing mergers
In turn order, each player who has researched at least one “Mer-
ger” step may announce a merger. Each merger is resolved before 
the next is announced.
A merger always involves two companies—it is not possible to 
merge 3 or more companies in one step. However, a merger may 
involve up to five company deeds (this will happen if the mer-
ging companies are themselves the result of earlier mergers). The 
number of company deeds that may be involved in the merger is 
limited by the position on the Merger R&D track of the announ-
cing player: merger 2 allows mergers resulting in companies of 
at most 2 company deeds, merger 3 allows mergers resulting in 
companies of 3 deeds, etc.
Each company deed can only be involved in a merger once per 
year—once it is merged, the resulting company cannot be merged 
again until the next Merger phase.
Mergers are always between two companies of the same type (rice 
with rice, shipping with shipping, etc.) with the exception of siap 
faji mergers (see below).
A player may announce a merger of two companies regardless of 
who owns these companies: he may own both, neither, or one of 
them. However, he may only announce a merger if he is allowed to 
hold the resulting company. In practice, this means he has to own 
one of the merging companies, or have a free slot.
Bidding
The announcing player must place the first bid. This bid must 
either be equal to the nominal value of the merged companies, or 
be a valid raised bid. The nominal value is calculated by counting 
the number of goods each company has on the board and multi-
plying this by the value of each good (10 for ships, 20 for rice, 25 
for spices, 30 for rubber, 35 for siap faji, 40 for oil). The minimum 
bid is equal to the nominal value, even if the announcing player 
owns one or both companies himself. A player may not bid more 
than he has on hand. Bidding then proceeds in order of play. Every 
player who can own the resulting company may bid (i.e. the play-
ers with a free slot, and the owners of the merging companies).
Merging the two rice companies would require a bid of at least 5 rice x 20 rupiah= 100 rupiah. Bidding would go up in multiples of 5. 
Merging the shipping companies requires 6x10=60 rupiah. Bidding goes up in multiples of 6.

Phase 3-4 
Merger R&D does NOT influence who may bid. Players may 
either pass or bid. Once they pass, they cannot rejoin bidding for 
this merger. Bids must be raised in increments equal to multiples 
of the number of goods the companies have on the board—e.g., 
when merging rice companies with 3 and 5 goods on the board, 
the minimum bid of 8x20=160 can be raised in multiples of 8 to 
168, 176, 184, etc.
Resolving the merger
When all players have passed, the resulting company is given to 
the player who has made the highest bid. This player divides the 
total sum amongst the former owners according to the number 
of goods/ships the original companies had on the board—so if 
224 was the winning bid on the 3 and 5 company above, it would 
be divided 84/140. Note that the acquiring player must be able to 
pay the total sum bid, even if he owns one or more of the original 
companies.
The company deeds of the original company are placed together 
and given to the new owner. In case of a merger between shipping 
companies, the type of ships is adjusted on the board so that it is 
easy to recognize that they now belong to one company (see sug-
gestions on ship types). In case of a merger between production 
companies, no adjustments on the map are needed.
After the merger has been completed, the merger phase continues 
with the next player. Play continues in order of play until no player 
wants to announce another merger. Note that for announcing 
mergers, it is allowed to pass and then rejoin, as mergers an-
nounced by other players often enable a player to free up slots and 
announce mergers himself, resulting in a furious wave of merger 
activity.
Suggestions on ship types
As shipping companies grow large, it is often best to use both ty-
pes of ships from a single color. In some cases, one color may not 
be enough. If this occurs, use two colors for the big company, and 
the other color for the other companies.
Note that no ships are ever taken off the board - even if the resulting 
company has multiple ships in the same area, these just remain.
One ship of each company should be positioned on the Company 
hull track (below the R&D track), so everyone can see at a glance 
what the hull capacity of that particular company is.
Siap faji mergers
Siap faji mergers take place between a rice and a spice company. 
The resulting company produces microwave meals, called “siap 
faji”. This is the only instance where two companies producing dif-
ferent goods can be merged.
Siap faji mergers are resolved in the same way as normal mergers, 
with the following exceptions:
- a siap faji company cannot be formed in era a - only in era b or c.
- the nominal value bid is equal to the total number of goods 
(rice+spice) x 25.
- the total bid is divided amongst the owners of the original com-
panies in the same way as with a normal merger - so if one player 
owned 4 rice and the other 3 spices, the first would get 4/7, the 
second 3/7 of the total price.
- after the merger is completed, the new owner must give up half of the 
goods (land areas) owned by the old companies (rounded up). Empty 
these areas of any goods. You can only give up areas at the border of 
your company’s estate—that is, you may not break contiguous zones 
of spice/rice by taking goods from the middle. Replace the rice/spice 
goods in the remaining areas with siap faji goods. So in the example 
above, the resulting company would consist of 3 siap faji goods. 
- If you have sufficient research, it is allowed to merge a “3”-size 
spice company with a 1-size rice company. The number of deeds 
or goods in the merging companies need not be balanced in any 
way.
- Once a siap faji company has been formed, it can only merge 
with another siap faji company. Mergers between a siap faji com-
pany and a rice or spice company are not possible.
4. Acquisitions
In this phase, players may start new companies, provided they 
have free slots for these companies. Players get multiple chances 
but may acquire only one company per round.
Following the order of play, each player may start one available 
company of the current era. He takes the corresponding company 
deed and places it in front of him. Starting a company costs no 
money. Note that a player may never have more companies than 
he has slots, as indicated on the R&D track. A merged company 
that consists of multiple company deeds takes up only one slot.
If the acquired company is a production company, the player must 
place one goods counter in the appropriate province. He may place 
this counter on any empty land area. However, a goods counter 
cannot be placed immediately next to a goods counter of the same 
type. If no such area is available, the company cannot be started 
and is taken out of the game.
If a player acquires a shipping company, he places a ship in one of 
the sea areas bordering on the province indicated. Existing ships 
do not hinder placement in any way.
Normally, a player 
could start the Bali 
Rice Company 
in either of the 
areas in Bali (A 
or B). However, A 
borders on another 
rice company and 
thus cannot be 
used.

Phase 4-5-6
Instead of starting a company, a player may also pass. Once a 
player has passed, he can no longer acquire companies during the 
present acquisition phase.
The acquisition phase goes on until all players have passed or until 
there are no more companies left. A player may acquire multiple 
companies in one acquisition phase, provided he has enough slots.
5. Research & Development
In this phase, players may each research one out of 6 available 
upgrade types. The player researches an upgrade by placing his 
marker one step forward on the corresponding R&D track. The 
following upgrades are available:
Slots indicates the number of companies a player may own at 
any one time. Merged companies consisting of multiple company 
deeds take up only one slot.
Mergers indicates the maximum number of company deeds 
that may be involved in a merger announced by a player. With 
mergers 1, a player cannot announce any mergers. With mergers 2 
researched, a player may announce mergers of 2 single companies. 
With mergers 3, a player may announce a merger of a previously 
merged company (consisting of 2 company deeds) and a third, 
unmerged one, resulting in a company consisting of 3 company 
deeds. Note that the merger R&D determines only which mer-
gers a player may announce. Players may bid for and own large, 
merged companies regardless of their R&D position on this track.
Hull Player indicates the number of goods each ship belonging 
to a company of that player may transport for each production 
company during the operations phase. Each player should place 
one ship of each of his shipping companies directly beneath his 
own marker on the Hull Company track, so that everyone can see 
at a glance what the capacity of each shipping company is.
Expansion indicates the maximum amount of expansion a pro-
duction or shipping company may have during the operations 
phase.
Turn Order Bid indicates the amount by which the player’s order 
of play bid should be multiplied in order to determine the se-
quence of play during the Bid for Turn Order phase.
A player may advance the hull size on another player’s R&D track 
instead of advancing his own capabilities. It may sometimes be 
useful to do this if the other player owns a strategic shipping line 
in order to transport and sell more of your own goods. It is not al-
lowed to increase any other upgrade types from another player.
6. Operations
In the operations phase, multiple rounds occur. Rounds are played 
in turn order. In each round, each player operates one of his com-
panies and places it upside down to indicate that the company has 
operated. The phase ends when all companies have operated once.
Merged companies operate as one entity.
A player may freely choose which company to operate. He must 
however operate one company each round as long has he has any 
companies left, even if the company cannot do anything sensible 
(or has to do something detrimental to the player).
in era c
in era b
in era a
The maximum number 
of ships a company can 
have is indicated on the 
deed
Operating shipping companies
For shipping companies, the operatons 
phase consists of one choice: it may choose 
to expand.
A shipping company may expand until it 
has a number of ships equal to the number 
listed on the deed for the appropriate era 
(a/b/c). Remember that a new era can only 
start in phase 1 at the beginning of a year.
New ships may only be placed in any sea 
area where the company already has a ship, 
or adjacent to any such area. If a player 
has expansion “2”, it is allowed to place the 
second ship in an area that has just been
“opened up” by the first ship. The number of ships a player may 
add in a round is indicated by the position he has on the Expansion 
track in the R&D table. So if the owner has expansion 2, he may 
add at most 2 ships per company, provided this does not bring the 
company over its limit.
Merged shipping lines add the numbers on their respective deeds. 
So if Lampung (2/3/4) merged with Halmahera (3/4/5), the resul-
ting company would be able to float (5/7/9) ships. These ships can 
be placed adjacent to any of the companies’ existing ships - the 
location of the original deeds does no longer matter.
Operating production companies
Production companies operate by doing three things in order: sell 
goods; receive income; and expand. In this paragraph, mention will 
often be made of production areas. A production area consist of a 
number of adjacent areas producing the same good. A production 
area always belongs to one company.
Goods are sold to cities. A size 1 city will buy one of each type of 
good that is produced on the board at that time—so 1 rice, 
1 spice, 1 rubber, etc. Goods that are not produced anywhere on the 
board are not required. A size 2 city will buy 2 of each good, a size 
3 city will buy 3 of each. The goods are not physically moved on the 
board. Instead, place an upside-down counter of the same good (sho-
wing that good in transit) next to the city it is sold to. In this way, it is 
easy to see whether a city will accept any more goods of that type.
A company can only sell goods to a city iif there is a chain of ships 
of one shipping company connecting the producing area with the 
city. So there has to be a ship in one of the sea areas adjacent to the 
city area. If this area is not adjacent to at least one of the production 
areas, it needs to be connected to another ship that is. Goods can be 
freely moved from an area to a neighboring area within a production 
zone, so it is not necessary for each area to be next to a ship. It is not 
possible to move goods to a city over land, not even if the producing 
area is right next to a city.
If a company has multiple production zones (this can only happen as 
the result of a merger) each production zone has to be treated separa-
tely, and needs its own shipping. In other words, goods cannot move 
freely between areas of a company that are not adjoining.
For each good that is sold, the production company needs a chain 
of ships owned by one company. A merged company counts as one 
company in this respect. 

Phase 6-7
He may use chains of different companies for different goods, but 
he cannot let goods “switch company” in the middle of a chain.
Each ship can transport only one good for each production 
company, unless the owner of the ships has developed a larger hull 
size—for each additional step on the hull R&D track, the ship can 
be used once more by each production company. Whereas the 
demand of each city is limited during the entire phase, all ships 
can be used anew by the next production company. 
The owner of the production company gets a fixed fee depending 
on the type of goods sold: 20 for rice, 25 for spice, and so on (see 
the table on the player aid). Out of this money, he has to pay 5 for 
each ship he uses to the owner of the respective shipping compa-
nies. If he uses a ship of hull 2 twice, he has to pay twice as well. 
The easiest way to keep track of this is to place 5 rupiah coins from 
the game on the different ships used and to give these coins to the 
owners afterwards, subtracting the sum from the amount earned 
by the production company.
Production companies have to sell as many of their goods as they 
can, even if this means they have a negative income due to trans-
port costs on one or more of their goods.
If a company has sold all its goods, that is, as many goods as it 
currently has on the board, it must expand for free. The player 
expands 1 or more areas, depending on his R&D expansion track 
status. These areas must be adjacent to one of the production 
zones of the company. A company can only expand into empty 
territory: a city or another company blocks the way. It is also not 
allowed to expand over sea areas, unless the two land areas are 
connected by an arrow.
Finally, it is not allowed to expand in such a way that production 
zones of two companies producing the same product would merge 
(so you can always distinguish companies). If there is no room to 
expand, a company cannot do so. 
Merged companies can only expand once, i.e., if a player has 
expansion 2 he can place 2 extra goods in total. He may choose to 
place these anywhere in the area of the company, so the two newly 
produced goods can be in vastly different places on the map.
If a company has not sold all of its goods, it may invest to expand. 
It can buy expansions (with the placement subject to the above 
rules) up to the number indicated on its R&D expansion track. 
The price per area is equal to that of the type of good the company 
is producing (e.g. 20 for each rice expansion, etc.). The money is 
paid into the general cash reserve.
After the company has operated, turn it upside down. The next 
player then operates one of his companies. As soon as all compa-
nies have operated, the next phase starts.
Last earnings double	
Because all money earned in the final operations phase is doubled, 
players should keep their earned money separate in the last era. 
If the game continues to another round, move it to cash at the 
beginning of the next year. If the game ends, double the money 
collected during the year, add the sum to cash, and count who has 
won... If you operate a company with negative profit (that is, it has 
to pay more for shipping than it earns), you must pay from this 
stack, not from your overall money. If there is no money in this 
phase’s stack yet, write down the money you have to pay and take 
it out of the stack later in the phase (this happens rarely), or, if you 
make no money at all, double the negative value at the end of the 
phase and pay that amount (this has never happened as far as we 
know, but it could...)
7. City growth
In this phase, cities grow if they have received every good that is 
produced on the board up to the full potential of the city: a size 1 
city needs one of every good on the board to become a size 2 city. 
A size 2 city needs 2 of every good to become a size 3 city. Discard 
all delivered goods, regardless of whether the city grew larger.
Replace the city with a stone of the appropriate color. (size 1 is 
colored green, size 2 is yellow, and size 3 red). If there are no more 
tokens available, it is not possible to upgrade a city.
The spice company can transport 1 spice using player A’s 
shipping line, as player A has a hull size of only 1. The spice 
company can deliver either to Halmahera, paying 10 to A, 
or to Kalimantan paying 5. In addition, it can sell 1 good to 
Sulawesi by using player B’s shipping line. Although player B 
has a hull of 2, he can transport no more goods, as he is not 
connected to any other cities, and changing shipping compa-
nies on the way is not allowed. As the spice company must 
sell as much as it can, it will sell 1 good through B to Sulawesi 
and 1 more through A to either of the other cities. If player A 
would have upgraded his hull to 2, the spice company would 
sell 2 spices through A’s line to Kalimantan and Halmahera for 
a total shipping cost of 15, and 1 through B to Sulawesi (for 5).
Land areas connected across seas are indicated by arrows
NOT
CONNECTED

Phase 7
If there are multiple cities that can be upgraded, but not enough 
tokens, the player who is first in order of play chooses which cities 
to upgrade.
Note that a city needs only those goods that are being produced on 
the board. In the first years, there is never any rubber, siap faji or 
oil, and it can even happen that there are no spices. 
The game ends in the “New Era” phase if the “c” era ends: that is, if 
there is only one type of c era company left to acquire, or if all c 
era companies have been acquired in the last year. 
If the game is played by two players, give each player two city buil-
ding cards of each era at the start of the game. Whenever new 
What is the situation around Bali and Jawa Timur?
There are three different seas as shown on the picture - one sea 
north of Jawa Timur (number 1), one sea south of Jawa Timur 
(number 2), and one sea surrounding Bali (number 3). Sea 1 is not 
adjacent to sea 2, though both are adjacent to sea 3. The western 
area on Bali (area A) is adjacent to all three seas.
Maluku
Maluku covers all of the white islands and island clusters in the 
general region of the name Maluku on the map. One of the B city 
building cards which has Maluku shaded is missing shading from 
the topmost island cluster, but this is a misprint.
Symbols
The symbols indicate a region’s “potential” by era, with the eras se-
parated by ‘/’. The symbol indicates either a production company, a 
shipping line, or a city. The hut is the mark for a city.
In this case, the city needs only rice to grow! In some games, a 
similar situation occurs towards the end: if all rice and spice com-
panies merge into siap faji companies, cities no longer require rice 
or spice to grow.
Any cash earned in the last operations phase is doubled, the player 
with the most money (including money in the bank) wins. In case 
of a tie, the player who is first on the order of play wins.
cities are built in a New era phase, both players build two new 
cities each, alternating between the players.
So let’s look at Java Barat:
In Era A, Java Barat will be on one or more of the city cards and 
there will be a rich production company available.
In Era B, Java Barat will again be on one or more city cards and 
there will be a shipping company available.
In Era C, Java Barat will be on one or more city cards, but no 
production/shipping companies in that region.
The dashes just indicate that nothing is available in that era. For 
example, Sumatra Barat:
In Era A, Sumatra Barat has no city cards or companies.
In Era B, Sumatra Barat appears on one or more city cards and a 
rubber production company is available.
In Era C, Sumatra Barat has no city cards or companies.
The marks help one realize where developments (cities or compa-
nies) will be available in future eras and are helpful for planning 
expansions.
Victory conditions
Two-player game
Map Issues 
A

Strategic Hints 
In the first year, make sure you get a nice company, and try to find 
some friends in order to have a good first year. Plan your R&D 
carefully. Starting with increasing slots is often a good strategy, or 
at least a safe one.
As the game progresses, make sure to have open slots for the more 
lucrative types of companies when they come up: rubber in the 
b era, and oil in the c era. It is often the case that only one or two 
rubber (and oil) companies can start really well—and it is often 
the owner of the shipping lines who decides which one!
Shipping companies are a good stealthy way to make money. 
They do not seem to earn much but can be very lucrative towards 
the end of the game –especially if you count the fact that you do 
not have to pay your own shipping fees. Even more importantly, 
owning the right shipping company often gives you the option to 
determine which areas are going to develop, and which aren’t. Ho-
wever, to make your company really useful you will have to merge 
it into a shipping emporium of 3 or more companies...
The game revolves around mergers. Although it is of course 
important to own the right companies and operate them well, 
Indonesia fortunes are made or broken during the merger phase. 
Make sure you always have enough cash to defend your own 
crown jewels, and to prevent “raids” on poor players. 
Mergers can be done for many reasons: to get someone else’s 
company, to sell your own company and raise cash, to get a free 
slot, to take advantage of an order of play position, to speed up the 
game, to influence the direction of shipping lines, to increase or 
decrease the hull size of a particular shipping route, etc... as you 
gain experience you may discover even more different reasons to 
initiate mergers...
One subtle thing to keep in mind is the order of play: think about 
when you would like to be the first to move, and plan ahead. Or-
der of play can be very crucial, especially in the later phases!
Have fun playing Indonesia,
The Splotter Team