for 1-4 players, aged 8 years and up
Standard Game for 2-4 Players
1. Lay out the board.
2. Put the tiles in the bag and shuffle them.
3. Each player displays one score board in front 
 of him and places one peg of each colour 
 in the hole to the right of the colour symbols 
 (value 0).
4. Each player places one rack in front of him 
(behind his score board), draws 6 tiles from 
the bag and places them on his rack so that 
only he can see them.
The Board
With 2 players only use the white spaces; with 3
players also use the light grey spaces; with 4 
players use the whole board.
Overview
Each player has six tiles with colour symbols on 
his rack. In clockwise order, players play one of 
their tiles onto the board with the objective of 
establishing lines of matching symbols emerging 
from the placed tile. This allows the players to 
advance the respective colour markers on their 
score boards. Players must attempt to advance 
all six of their colour markers, not leaving any 
one of them behind. When the board is filled, 
each player’s lowest positioned marker defines 
his result. The player with the highest result wins.
Play
The youngest player begins, then play progresses 
clockwise. On your turn do the following:
Play One Tile Choose one tile from your rack and 
place it on any two connected empty spaces on 
the board. In the first round, each player must 
play adjacent to a different one of the 6 symbols 
already printed on the board.
Score your Tile Start with one of the two sym-
bols on the tile you played. There are five lines 
emerging from this symbol, as indicated below. 
In each line count the number of identical sym-
bols (printed on the board or on other tiles), but 
stop counting as soon as you come to an empty 
space or a different symbol. (Do not count the 
symbol on the tile you just played!) The total 
count makes your score in this symbol and you 
advance your respective colour counter on your 
score board accordingly. Then score the second 
symbol on the tile you played in a similar manner.
Refresh your Hand Draw one tile from the bag to 
refresh your rack to 6 tiles.
Swapping your Tiles If your rack does not con-
tain any of the colour(s) currently in lowest 
position on your score board, then, before you 
refresh your hand, you may show your tiles to 
the other players, put all tiles from your rack 
aside, refresh your rack with 6 new tiles from 
the bag and thereafter return your old tiles to 
the bag.
Game Materials
1 game board
120 tiles
1 bag
4 racks
4 score boards
24 colour pegs
These rules
1 point for blue
2 points for blue
1 point for red and 
2 points for blue
4 points for blue
2 points for red and 
4 points for blue
12 points for green
for 3 players
for 4 players
score board
printed 
symbol 
on board
bag with tiles
tile rack
pegs
for 1 & 2 players
newly placed tiles
newly placed tiles

Bonus Play
Your counters cannot advance beyond the final 
spaces (value 18) on the score board. For each 
of your counters that reaches the final space, 
call out “Ingenious” and you get an instant 
bonus play of one tile. Before refreshing, choose 
another tile from your rack, place it on the board 
and score it. Only after you have completed all 
your bonus plays, refresh your rack to 6 tiles.
Game End
The game ends when no further tiles can be played. 
Then determine the lowest colour position of each 
player. This colour is the player’s score. The player 
with the best score wins. In the case of a tie, use 
the next lowest colour as a tiebreaker, and so on.
 Example
4-Player Partnership Game
As a game variant, players sitting opposite 
each other may form a partnership. All stan-
dard game rules apply, but each partnership 
uses a double-length score board by placing 
two regular score boards together. Both 
partners apply their individual scores to their
joint score board. When no further tile can 
be placed on the board, the partnership with 
the better score wins – in other words, the part-
nership with the lowest counter loses.
No communication is allowed between the part-
ners during play. Alternatively, players may 
agree open communication.
Bonus Play 
When a counter reaches the final space 
(value 18) on the first score board, the cur-
rent scoring of this colour symbol stops 
there, but the counter is immediately moved 
onto the start space (value 0) of the second
score board. The player receives the usual 
free bonus play for the “Ingenious” before 
refreshing. If a counter later reaches the final
space on the second score board, another free 
bonus play is awarded for the “Ingenious”.
Solitaire Game for 1 Player
All standard game rules apply, with the fol-
lowing exceptions: Use a double-length 
score board by placing two regular score 
boards together (as in the illustration below). 
When a counter reaches the final space 
(value 18) on the first score board, the current 
scoring of this colour symbol stops there, but
the counter is immediately moved onto the 
start space (value 0) of the second score 
board. Free bonus plays are not awarded in 
the solitaire game.
No rack is used. Draw one tile from the bag, 
place it on the board and score it. Then draw 
the next tile and proceed accordingly.
Only use the white spaces of the board. Try to
reach a high score by the end of the game, 
when no further tile can be placed.
Player A wins with a score of 10. Player B is 2nd with 
9. Player C also has a score of 9 but his tiebreakers 
12 and 13 are not as good as B’s 12 and 14.
When scoring 2 in green and 4 in yellow, both corresponding counters move to the start 
space (value 0) on the second score board, each triggering a free bonus play.
Example
player A
player B
player C
In the very rare case that one player succeeds in 
advancing all 6 counters to the end of his score 
board, he wins instantly.
Graphic design by Kinetics & Binney Hare Graphic Design. The game is a joint production of Sophisticated Games 
Ltd and Kosmos Verlag. Produced for Sophisticated games by Robert Hyde and for Kosmos by Sandra 
Dochtermann. 
© 2010 Sophisticated Games Ltd. Ingenious is a trademark of Sophisticated Games Ltd., all rights reserved. No part of this 
product may be reproduced without speciﬁ c permission. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight 
Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can 
be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due 
to small parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China.
Reiner Knizia expresses his thanks to all play testers, in particular Iain Adams, Chris Bowyer, David Farquhar, 
Martin Higham, Ross Inglis, Kevin Jacklin and Chris Lawson.
FANTASY
FLIGHT
GAMES
TM