A C A R N I V A L O F S P I E S I N V E N I C E
L E O C O L O V I N I 
 
A L E X R A N D O L P H

CONSPIRACY 
IN VENICE
C
ARNIVAL IN VENICE. The night is ﬁ lled with cheerful 
jubilation, wild rejoicing, singing, laughter, and well-
disguised, costumed characters scurrying through narrow 
alleyways.
Intermingled with the crowd in this festive atmosphere are four special 
characters, true masters of deception. They are capable of disguising 
themselves to become unrecognizable, as they sneak through the night 
on their secret missions.
These four masters of disguise (and one of them is YOU!) are:
Lord Fiddlebottom was already in the Secret Service back 
when the Service was not at all secret. A digniﬁ ed character, he 
is a man of inestimable wealth who hobnobs with all European 
nobility. He arrived in Venice on board his luxury yacht, Mata 
Hari II. However, the long years of leading a questionable 
double-life are beginning to take their effect. This can be seen 
by, among other things, the constant twitch of his right eye.
Colonel Bubble has been Lord Fiddlebottom’s right 
hand for years. He was recruited immediately upon 
leaving the army, where he had achieved great 
recognition for founding the Royal Balloon Brigade. 
People say he is unshakable and, even when faced 
with the greatest danger, he is so cool he is visibly 
freezing. In agent circles, he is known for his quick 
wit and for the peculiar habit of tugging on his left 
earlobe.
Agent X is extremely cunning, exceedingly furtive and 
exquisitely wicked. Nobody knows the details of his dark 
past, but, at the moment, he is said to be visiting Venice. He 
is a consummate professional, insusceptible to inﬂ uence, and 
absolutely ruthless.
His appearance is so bland that his contour melts if he stands 
in front of a colorless wall. He would be a perfect agent were 
it not for his compulsive frowning.
Madame Zsa Zsa claims to have been 
a celebrated dancer in her younger years. In reality, 
however, she performed as a contortionist, which 
may explain her twisted personality. She is also said 
to have been part of some questionable business 
deals in which the local authorities looked the other 
way. In some circles, she is well known a spy and, 
currently, cooperating with the notorious Agent X. 
She considers herself so vastly superior she often 
condescendingly turns up her nose at other people.
And then there is a ﬁ fth character of “the game,” the 
nosy Ambassador. He is constantly friendly, agreeably 
ineffectual, and ever-present at parties. He loves to catch 
bits and pieces of conversation, which he carefully jots 
down and stores in the safe at the embassy — right next 
to the super-secret mega-list (a microﬁ lm copy of which he 
inexplicably always carries around in his vest pocket).
OVERVIEW OF THE GAME
INKOGNITO can be played by 3-5 players.
The goal of each agent is to complete a mission, together with his or her 
partner. At the beginning of the game, players don’t know which mission 
they must fulﬁ ll.
In the standard 4-player game, each player guides one of four secret 
agents. The four characters are allied in pairs: Lord Fiddlebottom 
and Colonel Bubble are always partnered against Agent X and 
Madame Zsa Zsa.
Each of the four agents is represented by one of four different ﬁ gures, with 
different builds: tall, short, fat, thin. Only one of them represents the actual 
character controlled by a player. The other three ﬁ gures represent spies 
which are friendly to him and that are trying to confuse the opposition.
In their turn, each player shakes the Phantom of Prophecy randomizer 
to determine his three available actions. For example, moving on a land 
route or a sea route. The player moves his ﬁ gures, trying to reach spaces 
already occupied by the other players’ ﬁ gures or the Ambassador. 
When ﬁ gures are in the same space, the current player gets the right 
to “ask questions,” and inspect some of the cards of that player. By 
deduction and a logical process of elimination, he can draw conclusions 
as to the identity and intentions of the other players.
The ﬁ rst goal of every agent is to discover which of the other players 
is their partner. This partner has the other half of the “code” indicating 
their secret mission. 
After discovering (or thinking they have discovered) the real identity of the 
other players, an agent must trade his secret mission card with their ally. 
This will reveal the ﬁ nal mission and what must be done to complete it.
If either agent in a team completes the mission, both he and his partner 
win the game.
There is another character with an important role in the game; the 
Ambassador. He can be used to get clearer information about the other 
characters. Everyone wants to meet him, because he is well-informed 
and can be useful to accomplish your purposes, but he can also help 
your rivals, so do everything you can to keep him far from them.

This new version of INKOGNITO includes two different variants:
 
A 3-players variant, where one of the players is alone, without an 
ally.
 
A 5-players variant, where the ﬁ fth player controls the 
Ambassador. His ﬁ nal goal is to discover the truth about the four 
characters.
Players need intuition, cunning and quick thinking to solve the intrigue 
and complete their mission to win the game. No one is safe in 
INKOGNITO… are you ready to accept the challenge?
GAME COMPONENTS
1 Rules booklet
1 game board
16 ﬁ gures in 4 different colors
1 Ambassador (black) ﬁ gure
1 Phantom of Prophecy randomizer
4 Passports 
1 Notepad
32 cards (4 color sets of 8 cards each). Each set is composed of:
 
4 Identity cards (Lord Fiddlebottom, Colonel Bubble, Agent X,
 
 Madame Zsa Zsa)
 
4 Build cards (tall, short, fat, thin)
12 Secret cards composed of:
 
4 Identity cards (as above)
 
4 Build cards (as above)
 
4 Mission cards (A, B, C, D)
GAME BOARD
The game board represents a map of Venice, with its islands and its 
channels. Highlighted on the map are important game elements:
Orange Circles
Normal spaces used by ﬁ gures during the game.
Blue Circles
Starting spaces of the Blue player ﬁ gures.
Green Circles
Starting spaces of the Green player ﬁ gures.
Red Circles
Starting spaces of the Red player ﬁ gures.
Yellow Circles
Starting spaces of the Yellow player ﬁ gures.
Embassy Circle
Starting space of the Ambassador.
Orange Lines
These lines represent the land movement routes.
Blue Lines
These dashed lines represent the water movement routes.
Numbered Circles
These special spaces represent the ﬁ nal destinations players have 
to reach to complete a mission.
These special spaces represent the ﬁ nal destinations players have 
to reach to complete a mission.

CHARACTER FIGURES
In INKOGNITO every secret agent 
has four possible physical builds, 
represented by four different ﬁ gures 
in the same color.
AMBASSADOR FIGURE
This special character knows something about everybody 
and he shares this information to anyone who asks him for 
a “private meeting.” In the 5-players game variant (see 
page 10), he assumes a more active role 
and is controlled by one of the players.
PHANTOM OF PROPHECY
RANDOMIZER
This special randomizer indicates the moves available 
to the players. Every colored ball provides a different 
movement action to the player in his turn.
PASSPORTS
These special screens allow the players to keep all their information 
secret during the investigation: their cards and the note sheet with the 
info gathered during the game. They also show the missions that the 
players must achieve in order to win.
NOTEPAD
During the game, players ask many questions to 
gather information about the other characters. The 
note sheets (in the notepad) help players take note 
of the answers.
IDENTITY AND BUILD CARDS
These cards (4 color sets of 8 cards each) are 
used by players to answer the questions of the 
other players about identity and physical build of their character.
SECRET CARDS
These cards are randomly distributed to every player to determine 
their real identity, build, and mission. Players keep them behind their 
passports, hidden from the other players.
p g
a

ASSEMBLING THE FIGURES
Before playing the game for the ﬁ rst time, assemble the playing ﬁ gures 
and the Phantom of the Prophecy.
1. THE COLORED PLAYING FIGURES
Press the front and back half of each playing piece of the same size and 
color together, after placing them over the knob on the stand (see Fig. 1). 
Then afﬁ x the mask and hat.
2. THE AMBASSADOR FIGURE
Simply press the front and back halves of the ﬁ gure together (see Fig. 2).
3. THE PHANTOM OF PROPHECY
Press part A and part B together (see Fig. 3) and push it into part C. 
Drop the ten colored balls into the opening in part A and then press the 
mask into position over the hole.
SETUP
The following rules are used in a normal 4-player game. 
See page 10 for the changes to setup when playing with 3 players or 
playing with 5 players.
Place the Phantom of Prophecy in the lagoon area in the upper left-hand 
corner of the game board.
Place the Ambassador on the black circle marked with the Ambassador 
ﬁ gure. This is the Embassy.
Each player chooses a color and takes a complete set of components of 
this color: 4 ﬁ gures, 8 colored cards and 1 passport.
Four of the colored cards are identity cards — one for each of the 
different characters in the game.
The other four cards are build cards corresponding to the ﬁ gures — 
one for each of the four build types a character can have: tall, short, fat, 
thin.
Place the ﬁ gures on the four spaces of your color.
Take a note sheet and write the names and colors of the other players on 
the leftmost column, in the ﬁ rst three rows. The fourth row is used to note 
of the information you show to the other players.
Bend the passport, and place it in front of you to form a screen behind 
which you can ﬁ ll out your note sheet. On the interior part of every 
passport is the list of secret missions.
During the course of the game, players will discover which mission they 
need to fulﬁ ll.
Divide the 12 grey secret cards in three groups (identity, build, and 
mission). One player takes the four identity cards, shufﬂ es them, and 
deals one to each player (including himself) facedown, unseen.
The next player deals the four build cards to everyone, and the third 
player deals the mission cards. Each player then looks at the cards 
received, which reveals the following information:
 
1 identity card, telling him which of the 4 agents he represents.
 
1 build card, from which he learns the true build of his agent 
(the other ﬁ gures of your color represent friendly spies pretending 
to be the agent).
 
1 mission card, which, when joined with the mission card of the 
currently unknown partner, indicates how to win the game.
Do not let any other player see these cards, even unintentionally. All of 
this information has to be kept secret until you give it out when meeting 
other characters.

MOVEMENT EXAMPLE
Leo is the green player. He shakes the Phantom of Prophecy and 
rolls an orange, blue, and white ball.
He uses the orange ball to move one of his ﬁ gures closer to 
the Embassy (1).
He uses the blue ball to move another ﬁ gure across the 
channel to space #4 (2).
Finally, he uses the white ball as a land movement to 
continue moving this ﬁ gure to the blue space, so that he can 
ask questions to the blue player (3).
HOW 
TO PLAY
Randomly determine the starting player. After the ﬁ rst player takes his 
turn, the player to his left goes next, and so on.
During his turn, each player completes the following steps in sequence:
 
1. Movement
 
2. Meeting Characters and Asking Questions
1. MOVEMENT
On your turn, shake the Phantom of Prophecy vigorously, then set it 
down ﬁ rmly on the table. The three colored balls that appear below the 
mask determine your available three movement actions.
You may move one of your own ﬁ gures one space on a land 
route (orange lines).
You may move one of your own ﬁ gures one space on a 
water route (light blue dashed lines).
You may move one of your own ﬁ gures one space on land 
You may move one opponent’s ﬁ gure one space on land 
You may move the Ambassador ﬁ gure one space on land
Note: It is not mandatory to use all three possible movement actions.
Once the movement is complete, proceed to Meeting Characters and 
Asking Questions (see page 7).
MOVING YOUR OWN FIGURES
The orange, light blue, and white balls may be 
assigned to move your own ﬁ gures any way you wish.
For example, you may use all of them on one of your ﬁ gures, moving it 
three times; or move three different ﬁ gures once; or move one ﬁ gure two 
times and another ﬁ gure only one time.
The following movements are allowed when moving your ﬁ gures:
 
You may move your ﬁ gures onto a space occupied by another 
player’s ﬁ gures.
 
You may move one of your ﬁ gures onto the space occupied by the 
Ambassador ﬁ gure.
 
You may move your ﬁ gures through other ﬁ gures without stopping 
on their space.
You must also observe the following restrictions:
 
You are not allowed to end your move on the space occupied by 
another of your own ﬁ gures.
 
You are not allowed to end your move with more than one of 
your ﬁ gures occupying the same space of more than one of an 
opponent’s ﬁ gures. You are allowed to meet ﬁ gures of several 
players, but not more than one ﬁ gure of the same player.

MOVEMENT EXAMPLE
Michael is the red player. He shakes the Phantom of Prophecy and 
rolls a black, purple, and orange ball.
He uses the orange ball to move one of his ﬁ gures on land 
(1).
He uses the purple ball to force the yellow ﬁ gure to move 
onto the same space (2), so he can ask questions to the 
yellow player.
Finally, he uses the black ball to move the Ambassador (3).
MOVING OTHER FIGURES
When you get a black colored ball, you can move the 
Ambassador ﬁ gure one space, on land or water. You can move it 
to a space occupied by one of your ﬁ gures, to ask him questions, 
but you cannot move the Ambassador to a space occupied by the 
ﬁ gure of another player.
When you get a purple colored ball, you can move an 
opponent’s ﬁ gure one space, on land or water. You can move the 
opponent’s ﬁ gure onto the space of one of your own ﬁ gures (to 
obtain information on that player), but you cannot move the 
opponent’s ﬁ gure onto a space occupied by a ﬁ gure of another 
player or the Ambassador.
MEETING CHARACTERS AND ASKING QUESTIONS
You must reach spaces that are occupied by other agents, or by the 
Ambassador, to collect information. 
There are two ways to meet another ﬁ gure:
a. 
Move one of your ﬁ gures to the space occupied by the other 
ﬁ gure.
b. 
Move the other ﬁ gure to a space occupied by one of your ﬁ gures. 
This is possible, if you rolled a black or purple ball with the 
Phantom of Prophecy.
When you meet another ﬁ gure, you may ask questions and then 
send the ﬁ gure you met to another space (see Expulsion, below) of your 
choice.
Instead of asking a question, you may move 
your own ﬁ gure one more space (either on land or 
water). 
However, when doing so, you may not move to a space occupied by 
another ﬁ gure. 
This is especially useful toward the end of the game, when you might 
ﬁ nd that you don’t need additional information.
ASKING QUESTIONS TO OTHER AGENTS
If you end a movement on a space with another player’s ﬁ gure, you are 
entitled to see three of that player’s cards. 
Choose one of the following options when asking a question:
1. 
You may ask the other player about his identity. He has to show 
you (hidden from the other players) two of his identity cards and 
one of his build cards.
At least one of these three cards must be true.
2. 
You may ask the other player about his build type. He has to 
show you (hidden from the other players) two of his build cards 
and one of his identity cards.
At least one of these three cards must be true.
Remember: On your turn, your different ﬁ gures are allowed to meet 
ﬁ gures of several players, but not more than one ﬁ gure of the same 
player.

ASKING QUESTIONS TO THE AMBASSADOR
If you end a movement on a space with the Ambassador, 
you may request to see either two identity cards or 
two build cards of any player of your choice.
One of the cards must be true.
KEEPING RECORDS
When you receive information from your opponents, you will need to 
write it down on your note sheet to remember it later in the game.
Every time you see another player’s cards, you can record the 
information on your note sheet, in the appropriate row for that player.
After a series of questions, with the help of these notes, you will start to 
ﬁ gure out the real identity and build of the other players.
In addition, we suggest you write down (using a different symbol and 
writing on the fourth row your sheet) which of your own cards you have 
shown to the other players, so you avoid showing the same cards twice 
and paying the penalty for such a mistake.
Michael is Lord Fiddlebottom. He moves one of his ﬁ gures onto 
a space occupied by one of Leo’s ﬁ gures, and asks him about 
his build type.
Leo shows Michael his “Short” and “Tall” build cards and the 
identity card “Colonel Bubble”. Michael writes down on his 
note sheet the cards that Leo has shown him, and Leo writes 
down on his note sheet which cards he has shown Michael.
In the next round, one of Michael’s ﬁ gures meets the 
Ambassador. Using the Ambassador’s ability, Michael asks Leo 
about his identity. 
Leo shows him “Lord Fiddlebottom” and “Agent X.” But Michael 
is Lord Fiddlebottom! Since one of the two cards must be true, 
Michael can now ﬁ gure out that Leo is Agent X.
At the same time, Michael can now deduce that Leo, as Agent X, 
must be either “Short” or “Tall,” since at least one card from the 
ﬁ rst questioning must be true. Michael can note these deductions 
on his sheet and continue in his hunt for information.
SHOWING THE SAME CARDS TWICE
It is important to remember that you are not allowed to show the 
same set of three cards to the same player more than once.
If you mistakenly show the same three card set to the same player a 
second time and he points this out to you, you must now show him one 
card less, and at least one of the cards must be true.
If you show the same three card set to the same player for a third time, 
as a penalty you must show him one true card.
If a player disputes or argues that he has already shown you the same 
cards for a second (or third) time, you have to prove the contrary by 
using your notes. (Don’t cheat!)
If you cannot do that, you must be satisﬁ ed with the cards shown.
In addition, when you show your cards to another player whose ﬁ gure is 
questioning the Ambassador, you are not allowed to show a pair 
of cards that are the same as those you have shown to that 
player before, or that are part of a combination of three 
cards you have shown to that player before.
If you mistakenly do this, as a penalty, you must show him just one true card.
In previous questioning, Leo had already shown Michael the 
cards “Short,” “Tall,” and “Colonel Bubble.” Now, Michael meets 
the Ambassador and asks Leo (again) about his build type.
Leo again shows the build cards “Short” and “Tall”. Michael 
points out that Leo since Leo had already has shown him these 
two cards as part of a set, Leo must now show Michael the one 
true build card.
EXPULSION
After you have met the ﬁ gure of another player and questioned him, you must 
send this ﬁ gure to any unnumbered and unoccupied space on the board.
After you have met the Ambassador, you must send him to the Embassy 
space, if unoccupied, or to any unoccupied colored space.
COMPLETING YOUR MISSION
To win the game, you will need to identify your partner, uncover your 
mission, and complete it.
SEARCHING FOR YOUR PARTNER
In INKOGNITO it is very important to hide your identity from other 
players, but it is even more important, and in fact, necessary to win, to 
ﬁ nd out who your partner is and to reveal yourself to him.

During the game, after you have received answers to your questions and 
you have drawn your conclusions, you will begin to ﬁ gure out who the 
other players are. Eventually you will ﬁ nd out which one is your partner.
To reveal your true character to him, there are two basic methods. First, 
you could show him the unusual trait of the character you are playing 
(e.g., twitch your right eye if you are Lord Fiddlebottom). Second, if you 
are absolutely positive about his identity, the next chance you have to 
show him cards, reveal one or more of your grey secret cards instead of 
colored cards.
If you are sure about who is your partner, it is especially important to 
show him your mission card to reveal your common mission and try to 
accomplish it. Try to meet one of his ﬁ gures as soon as possible, so you 
can see his half of the combination and know your mission as well. But 
— be sure you are not mistaken about who is your real partner!
Note: If you show a mission card, it does not fulﬁ ll the requirement to 
show one true card. At least one more card must also be true.
CONFOUNDING YOUR OPPONENTS
While you are searching for your partner, you can try to confuse your 
opponents at the same time.
For example, you can use the traits and mannerisms of the four 
characters to send real or fake messages to the other players. It is only 
mandatory to be honest when showing cards — at least one card must 
always be true. Other than that, you may cause confusion as much as 
you want with words and mannerisms. You are a secret agent, almost 
everything is allowed!
You can also trick an opponent by showing him your secret mission 
card, so he falsely believes you are his partner. And certainly, many 
more nasty tricks will occur to you in the merciless battle of agents!
Another way to set obstacles for your opponents is by moving their 
ﬁ gures using the purple ball and the Expulsion rule — you can draw 
them closer to your ﬁ gures or move them away from the Ambassador. 
Try to make completing the mission easier for your team and more 
difﬁ cult for your opponents. Mixing these actions with the Phantom of 
Prophecy outcomes will provide you with a lot of strategies to achieve 
your goals and slow down your enemies.
DECODING THE MISSION
As soon as you have seen your partner’s mission card, you can decode 
the common secret mission. Look at the list of missions in your passport 
and ﬁ nd the line that shows both your codeword and your partner’s 
codeword in the right sequence. Now you know what you have to do 
to win!
NOTES ON COMPLETING THE MISSIONS
You may only complete a mission in your turn.
When a mission indicates the name of a speciﬁ c 
character, the ﬁ gure with the correct build of that character must be 
involved. This applies both if the named character is the one to be 
moved (for example, “Move Lord Fiddlebottom to space 5”), or if the 
named character is the target of the mission (for example, “Land any 
piece on Agent X”).
When a mission indicates “any piece” (for example “Land any piece on 
the Ambassador”), you may use any of the eight game pieces in your 
team of agents to complete the mission.
You are Lord Fiddlebottom and have the “B” mission card. Your 
partner, Colonel Bubble, has the “D” card. Cross-referencing 
this information on the passport, your common mission is:
“To Colonel Bubble: They know you are Zero-Zero-One. A 
balloon will pick you up at 11 p.m. at the old Arsenal. (Colonel 
Bubble must get to space #1.)”
For the mission to be fulﬁ lled, the actual ﬁ gure of Colonel Bubble 
(with the proper build) must be standing on the space marked #1.
You can also conclude that Madame Zsa Zsa and Agent 
X either have the mission A-C or mission C-A. That means 
you must rigorously prevent any opponent’s ﬁ gure from 
approaching Colonel Bubble.
WINNING THE GAME
The team that is the ﬁ rst to fulﬁ ll its common mission wins. This happens 
when the appropriate condition on the passport is met during the turn of 
one of the two partners.
Victory is announced by saying “Mission Accomplished!” with a 
grandiose handshake between the two partners.
However, at this point it must be determined if you are right about who 
are partners and what mission is required. If you are wrong, then the 
opposing team win!
But, what happens, for example, if you (as Lord Fiddlebottom) want to 
shake hands with a player and that player refuses? If that player is your 
actual partner (Colonel Bubble), then it is hard luck — the opposing 
team wins. If the refusing player is not your real partner (e.g., Agent X), 
then your actual partner is unlucky as well. In this case, the other team 
(Agent X and Madame Zsa Zsa) wins.

VARIANT FOR 5 PLAYERS
The Ambassador is concerned about what all the spies in Venice are up 
to. Are their preparing some criminal misdeed? 
He decides he must unmask them and reveal their identity to the police 
before they may complete their nefarious purpose… All the while 
pretending he is helping them!
In this new edition of INKOGNITO, one of the main innovations is the 
5-player variant, presented here.
RULES
The game is similar to the 4-player game with the important difference 
that the Ambassador is played by the 5th player.
THE GAME TURN
The Ambassador player does not use the Phantom of Prophecy. During 
his turn, the Ambassador player may move his ﬁ gure once or twice, 
using any land or sea route.
When the Ambassador moves into the space with another player’s 
ﬁ gure, he may ask the player to see two identity cards or two build 
cards. One of the two cards must be true. Then, he sends the other 
player’s ﬁ gure to any unnumbered and unoccupied space on the board.
During the other players’ turn, the black ball has the normal effect. The 
other players may move the Ambassador ﬁ gure one space on land or 
water.
When an agent player uses the Ambassador ﬁ gure to ask information 
from another agent player, that player must pass the chosen cards to the 
Ambassador’s player ﬁ rst. The Ambassador player looks at the cards, 
and then passes them to the player that asked the question. In this way, 
the Ambassador collects information about the other players every time 
his ﬁ gure is used, not only during his own turn.
WINNING THE GAME
The goal of the Ambassador player is to know all the identities and build 
types of the other four players before any team completes its mission.
When he is sure he has all of the information, he declares “I know who 
you are…” and records the identities and builds of each player on his 
note sheet. The game continues normally and, when one of the two spy 
teams declares “Mission Accomplished!” the Ambassador player shows 
his note sheet. If he correctly announces the identities and the build 
types of the four players, he wins the game; otherwise follow the usual 
4-player rules to determine who has won the game.
In a 5-players’game, if your mission requires you to “Move the 
Ambassador to” a location, the mission becomes “Move one of your 
agents to…” that location. You may fulﬁ ll the mission using either ﬁ gure 
with the correct build from your team.
VARIANT FOR
3 PLAYERS
The police have put out a press release stating they are holding a spy 
under arrest. According to police, the agent is being interrogated at a 
secret place, and it is still too early to say anything about his identity.
With the shocking news the Ambassador declares, “I will leave no stone 
unturned till we have found the source of the leak...”
INKOGNITO is designed for 4 players, but the 3-player variant is 
devilishly fun, too. One of the agents’ partner has been arrested. If it is 
your partner, you cannot achieve your mission, so you must ﬂ ee the city 
before it’s too late! Otherwise, you must complete your mission before 
the police get on your tracks, too…
RULES
The ﬁ gures, cards, and passport of one color are removed from the game.
To begin, the cards are distributed as in the 4-player game. However, 
one set of cards is put aside. The game proceeds as usual, until one 
player either discovers that one of the other players is his partner or that 
he is on his own.
If you have a partner, you complete the game as in the 4-player version, 
with the following exception:
 
If your mission refers to the missing character, read the information 
as if it indicates the active player instead.
The mission for the Madame Zsa Zsa and Agent X team is to 
move one of their ﬁ gures onto a space with Colonel Bubble 
(mission C-A).
However, Colonel Bubble is not in play, so they must move one 
of their ﬁ gures to the space with Lord Fiddlebottom.
If you are playing without a partner, then your mission is to 
leave Venice by the quickest route, reaching the space marked 
with a small running ﬁ gure on your passport.
 
Lord Fiddlebottom must get to space #5.
 
Colonel Bubble must get to space #1.
 
Madame Zsa Zsa must get to space #4.
 
Agent X must get to space #6.

CREDITS
Design & Development: Leo Colovini and Alex Randolph
Art: Studio Tapiro
Art Direction: Fabio Maiorana
Graphic Design & Layout: Peter Gifford (UniversalHead.com)
Editing and Supervision: Roberto Di Meglio and Fabrizio Rolla
English Editing: Jim Long
Production: Roberto Di Meglio
Special thanks to Roberto Grasso and Leonardo Rina for their support 
and worthy suggestions in the development of this new edition.
A game created, produced, and distributed worldwide by
Ares Games Srl
Via dei Metalmeccanici 16, 55041,
Capezzano Pianore (Lu), Italy.
Tel. +39 0584 968696, Fax +39 0584 325968.
Retain this information for your records.
Licensed by Studiogiochi. © 2013 Ares Games Srl. 
Inkognito™ is a trademark of Ares Games Srl.
All Rights Reserved. Made in China.
www.aresgames.eu