Third Edition
By Carl Chudyk
RULEBOOK

Innovation Base: Edition III
2-4 players
30-60 mins
Ages 13+
Innovation is a game of civilization building through technologies, 
ideas, and ingenuity. Starting in the Stone Age, you will choose the 
innovations that define your people’s destiny through history... 
from the humble beginnings of The Wheel and Clothing, 
to Gunpowder, Democracy, and Combustion, all the way 
to Satellites and The Internet. Each of these will give your 
civilization a specific ability. Some will allow you to advance 
through the ages faster, others will help build your infrastructure, 
and yet more will give you the ability to attack your rivals. 
Each of these innovations is depicted in the game by a card, 
and all 105 are unique. There are no maps or pieces to move 
around, as the cards provide all of the action and scorekeeping 
in the game. A card’s primary use is as an innovation, played 
face-up in front of you to be used for effect, but cards can also 
wind up face-down in your score pile or as achievements, 
representing your civilization’s power, influence, and legacy.
Learning Innovation
The game of Innovation takes many plays to master. Its basic 
mechanics aren’t too hard to explain, but the 105 unique cards 
and their different effects can be overwhelming to new players. 
Before teaching the game to others, it is often helpful to play 
through a few turns on your own. For a first play, it is best to do 
2-3 players, and to focus more on what’s going on on your own 
cards rather than trying to read every card that opponents play. 
There’s a ton to explore, and the time you devote to the game 
will be rewarded in future plays! For some tips on how to teach 
Innovation to others, see p20.
Your Goal
There are two primary ways to win. The first, less frequent, way 
is to have the most points when time passes beyond age 10. 
You will acquire points during the game by using the effects of 
your cards. The second way to win is through achievements. If 
you have enough points, you can spend an action to claim an 
achievement. And if you have enough achievements, you win 
immediately! 
2 Players/4 Player Teams : 6 achievements to win
3 Players : 5 achievements to win
4 Players: 4 achievements to win

Your Civilization
As you play, you will accumulate cards of five different colors in 
an area in front of you called your board. Your most important 
cards are the top cards of each color, as they can be activated for 
their effects through the Dogma action. Cards that you cover up 
over time are still useful, because some effects will allow you to 
splay a color in a direction. Splaying will reveal additional icons 
from your covered up cards.
Your board consists of all the 
cards you have put into play. 
Visible icons will help you 
share in other players’ actions, 
demand from opponents, 
and also defend against 
their demands. 
In this example, blue is 
splayed right, and purple is 
splayed left.
Your score pile contains face-down 
cards. Each card is worth its value 
(the age number) in points.
Achievements are one way 
to win in Innovation. Once 
claimed, they can never be 
taken away from you.
Anatomy of a Card
INVENTION
You may splay right any one color of 
your cards currently splayed left. If you 
do, draw and score a .
If you have five colors splayed, each 
in any direction, claim the Wonder 
achievement.
PHILOSOPHY
You may splay left any one color of 
your cards.
You may score a card from your 
hand. 
ACTIONS: You must take two actions on your turn, in any order. You 
may perform the same action twice.
MELD
Play a card from your 
hand to your board, on 
stack of matching color. 
Continue any splay if 
present.
DRAW
Take a card of value 
equal to your highest 
top card from the supply 
piles. If empty, draw from 
the next available higher 
pile.
ACHIEVE
To claim, must have 
score of at least 5x the 
age number in points, 
and a top card of equal 
or higher value. Points 
are kept, not spent.
DOGMA
Pick a top card on your board. Execute each effect on it, in order.
• I Demand effects are executed by each player with fewer of the featured 
icon than you, going clockwise. Read the effect out loud to them.
• Non-demand effects are executed by opponents before you, if they have 
at least as many or more of the featured icon, going clockwise.
• If any opponent shared a non-demand effect, take a single free Draw 
action at the conclusion of your Dogma action.
SCORE
ACHIEVEMENTS
I DEMAND you transfer a card 
from your hand to my score pile! If 
you do, draw a !
You may splay your red or purple 
cards to the right.
EMANCIPATION
CARD TITLE 
Each of the 105 innovations 
are unique.
VALUE 
Matches the age of the 
supply pile it came from.
ICONS
Each card has four potential 
icon locations. Icons help 
you defend against demands, 
and share in other players’ 
dogma effects.
CARD IMAGE
One of the four icons on 
each card is an image 
depicting the innovation. 
It does not provide any 
benefit.
DOGMA EFFECTS 
Each card you play 
grants you abilities 
called ​dogma effects. 
Some are demands 
that attack other 
players. Others help 
you advance your 
civilization.

Split the cards into their ten supply piles, arranged like a clock 
as shown below. Randomly and without looking, set aside one 
card each from ages 1-9 in the center as normal Achievements. 
The five Special Achievements are placed nearby.
Supply Pile Setup
Starting Play
Your Turn
Each player draws two age 1 cards, and all players simultaneously 
choose one to be the first card on their board. The other card 
becomes their initial hand. The player with the card in play 
closest to A alphabetically goes first. The first player (or the 
first two in a four player game) will take only one action instead 
of two on their initial turn. Subsequent turns are normal.
On each turn, you must take two actions. There are four 
types of action you can choose.
 • Draw: Add a card to your hand from the supply 
piles. Cards in your hand can later be melded, or 
sometimes used to fuel dogma effects.
 • Meld: Take a card from your hand and put it onto 
your board. 
 • Dogma: The core action of Innovation. It allows 
you to activate one of the top cards on your board for 
its game effect. These effects do many useful things, 
including placing cards in your score pile. 
 • Achieve: Allows you to claim an achievement, if you 
have enough points to do so. Achievements are the 
primary way to win!
Your two actions each turn can be any combination in any 
order of these four actions, including the same one repeated 
twice.
MEDIEVAL
POSTMODERN
INFORMATION
ENLIGHTENMENT
ROMANCE
MODERN
EXPLORATION
POSTMODERN
MONUMENT
if you tuck six or score six cards during a 
single turn.
May also be claimed via Masonry, from 
Age 1: Prehistory.
Note: Transfered cards from other players do not 
count toward this achievement, nor does exchanging 
cards from your hand and score pile.
EMPIRE
if you have three or more icons of all six 
types:
May also be claimed via Construction, 
from Age 2: Classical.
WORLD
if you have twelve or more on your board.
May also be claimed via Translation, 
from Age 3: Medieval.
WONDER
if you have five colors on your board, and 
each is splayed either up or right.
May also be claimed via Invention, from 
Age 4: Renaissance.
UNIVERSE
if you have five top cards, and each is of value 
8 or higher. 
May also be claimed via Astronomy, 
from Age 5: Exploration.
Special Achievements
MODERN
ROMANCE
ENLIGHTENMENT
EXPLORATION
MEDIEVAL

Draw
Meld
You must satisfy two conditions to take an Achieve action and 
claim a normal achievement. First, your score (the total value 
of all the cards in your score pile) must be at least five times the
Achieve
To take a Draw action, find the highest value (a card’s value is 
its age number) top card you have on your board. Take the top 
card from that age’s supply pile and add it to your hand. 
Empty Supply Piles: If a supply pile is empty and you need to draw 
from it, instead draw from the next higher non-empty pile. This 
happens both for Draw actions, and for any other effects that cause 
you to draw cards. For example, if you need to draw a 4, and the 4, 5, 
and 6 piles are empty, you would draw a 7. If you ever are required 
to draw a card of age higher than 10, the game ends immediately.
Choose a card from your hand and place it on your board, on 
top of any other cards of its color if present. If that color of your 
cards is already splayed, the new card continues that splay in 
the same direction. You can choose any card from your hand, 
even if its value is much higher or lower than your existing top 
card of that color.
age number of the achievement. Second, you must have a top 
card of equal or higher value to the achievement you want 
to claim. If you meet both these requirements, claim the 
achievement, placing it under your reference card on the 
right side. Claiming an achievement does not spend any points, 
they are merely a threshold required to take it. Once you have an 
achievement, it cannot be taken away.
Dogma
When you take a Dogma action, choose one of your top cards 
to activate. This represents your civilization focusing on one of 
the innovations you have discovered. The Dogma action is the 
central mechanic of the game. 
Each dogma effect is preceded by a small version of one of the 
six possible icons, indicating which is its featured icon. At the 
start of a Dogma action, each player counts how many of the 
featured icon they have on their board. Each player that has 
at least as many as you is ​eligible to share​ in the use of your 
innovation. They are also immune to its demand effects, if it 
has any.
Many cards have multiple effects. You will use all of them 
with a single Dogma action. Do not recount icons after each 
of the effects, it only matters how many icons were present 
at the start of the action. Always complete an effect entirely 
before proceeding to the next effect.

Dogma (continued)
Before you execute an effect, each other player who is eligible to 
share must also use it. Starting to your left and going clockwise, 
each of them follows the effect’s instructions. Then you perform 
them. If the card has additional effects, repeat this process, 
including sharing, for each effect.
After your Dogma action is completed, if any player shared any 
of your effects, you take one free Draw action. This only occurs 
if an opponent’s use of the shared effect caused something in the 
game to change. A change is one or more cards being drawn, 
revealed, melded, tucked, splayed, scored, exchanged, or moved.
Some effects are demand effects. They are in darker boxes and all 
start with “I demand.” These effects are attacks, and you read them 
aloud to make it clear what your opponents must do. In clockwise 
order, each opponent follows the instructions. Opponents who 
have at least as many of the featured icon as you ignore demand 
effects.
If you can only perform part of an effect, do as much as you 
can and ignore the rest. A demand requiring your three highest 
cards would take your entire hand if you only have two cards, for 
example. An effect that exchanges your hand and score pile still 
takes place if one of the two is empty. You are allowed to use the 
Dogma action on a card that will cause nothing at all to happen.
Dogma Example
In this example, I have Writing and Code of Laws (which I’ve 
already used to splay my purple cards left!) I want to take a 
Dogma action in order to use Writing ( : Draw a 2). 
Since my opponent has at least as many of the featured icon 
 as me, they are eligible to share. They draw a 2, and then I 
draw a 2. After the Dogma action is complete, since any opponent 
shared in my effects, I get a free Draw action. My highest top 
card is a 1, so I draw a 1.
INVENTION
You may splay right any one color of 
your cards currently splayed left. If you 
do, draw and score a .
If you have five colors splayed, each 
in any direction, claim the Wonder 
achievement.
CODE OF LAWS
You may tuck a card from your 
hand of the same color as any card 
on your board. If you do, you may 
splay that color of your cards left.

Keywords (continued) 
Remove: The Fission card, if successful, forces the removal of 
all score, hand, and board cards from the game (set aside in the 
box). Civilization begins anew with the few cards remaining in 
the supply.
Return: A returned card is placed at the bottom of its supply 
pile, face down. If multiple cards are returned at once, choose 
the order. If the pile was empty, it now exists again.
Score: To score a card, place it in your score pile, face-down. 
Your score is the total value of all the cards in your score pile.
Splay: See page 15.
Top: The top card of each color is the completely visible card.
Tuck: To tuck a card, place it on the bottom of the matching 
color pile, continuing a splay if possible. If no cards of its color 
are on your board, it forms a new pile.
Value: The value of a card is its age number. If a card refers to 
the value of something you don’t have, like your top purple card 
if you have none, treat the value as 0. 
Win and Game Ending Effects: Several cards can end the game 
early. Some allow you to win given a certain condition, which if 
satisfied ends the game immediately. Others let “the single player 
with the most X” win. These also end the game immediately, but 
only if there is no tie for X. If there is a tie, the effect is ignored 
entirely.
Bottom: The bottom card of your stack of a color. If you have 
only one, it is both the bottom and top card of that color.
Card Image: The image in a hexagon on a card, depicting the 
innovation. These icons have no effect on the game other than 
to vary which splay direction utilizes the card best.
Draw and X: Many dogma effects instruct you to draw and 
tuck, draw and meld, or draw and score a card of a specific 
value. For any of these, draw a card and then immediately do 
the second part with that card. Remember that if a supply pile 
is empty, draw from the next higher available pile instead.
Exchange: Swap cards from the two locations given, even if 
one half of the exchange is empty. Exchanging cards does not 
count as scoring them for the purposes of Monument.
Execute for yourself only: Do not share such effects, regardless 
of icon count. The effects can still impact other players (ex: 
Rocketry), just not by sharing.
Fun: Mandatory! You must have it, or else.
Highest / Lowest: Refers to the value (age number) of the 
cards in question. In the case of a tie, you can pick which of 
your cards are affected.
Non-demand effect: Any dogma effect that does not begin 
with “I Demand.”
Keywords

In this example, I have Oars and want to use its Demand 
effect. Since I have three of its featured icon compared 
to my opponent’s one, I read aloud the effect. Sadly, they 
have no matching cards in their hand, so nothing happens. 
However, Oars’ second effect (a non-demand dogma effect) 
reads “If no cards were transferred due to this demand, 
draw a 1,” and so I am able to salvage a card draw out of the 
situation. This non-demand effect would be shared by any 
eligible players.
PHILOSOPHY
You may splay left any one color of 
your cards.
You may score a card from your 
hand. 
ENGINEERING
I DEMAND you transfer all top 
cards with a from your board to 
my score pile!
You may splay your red cards left.
Many dogma effects will instruct you to splay a color in a direction. 
At any given time, a color is either unsplayed, splayed left, splayed 
right, or splayed up. 
To splay a color, take the top card and slide it in the direction 
indicated, revealing one icon if splaying left, two icons if splaying 
right, and three icons if splaying up. If there are more than two 
cards, repeat the process so that all cards in the color are splayed. 
If the color was already splayed, unsplay it before splaying it in the 
new direction. If a color contains zero or one cards, it is always 
considered unsplayed -- so if a splayed color is reduced to zero 
or one cards, it does not remember that it was previously splayed.
Below are examples of purple splayed left (two cards), blue 
splayed right (three cards), and red splayed up (three cards).
Splaying
Demand Example
METALWORKING
Draw and reveal a . If it has a ,
score it and repeat this dogma effect. 
Otherwise, keep it. 
Splayed left
Splayed right
Splayed up
CITY STATES
I DEMAND you transfer a top card 
with a from your board to my 
board if you have at least four 
on your board! If you do, draw 
a !
You may tuck up to three cards from 
your hand. If you do, draw and 
score a for every different value 
of card you tucked.
LIGHTING
If any cards were transferred due to 
the demand, score the lowest top card 
with a from your board. 
THE PIRATE CODE
I DEMAND you transfer two cards of 
value or less from your score pile to 
my score pile!
I DEMAND you draw a , then 
transfer the highest card in your 
hand to my hand!
ARCHERY

Score, Achievements, and Special Achievements
Over the course of the game, you will accumulate cards in 
your score pile through dogma effects. Each card in your score 
pile is worth points equal to its value (the age number). When 
you slide them under your reference card, the number will be 
visible in the top left. Your score is the total value of all these 
cards.
Nine normal achievements are available to start the game, one 
of each from ages 1 through 9. You can claim an achievement 
with the Achieve action, if you have enough points and a top 
card of the achievement’s value or higher. Once gone, they are 
not replenished. You do not have to claim them in order, and on 
occasion it is strategically better to take a higher achievement 
first. 
The five special achievements are always available to be 
claimed. If you meet the conditions for one of them, take it 
immediately. Like normal achievements, once claimed they 
can never be stolen. In the rare case that two players simultaneously 
become eligible to claim a special achievement at exactly the 
same time, the tie is broken in turn order going clockwise, with 
the current player winning ties.
Winning and Game End
Team Rules for Four Players
To win, you need to claim a number of achievements depending 
on how many players are in the game. For a two player or team 
game, 6 achievements. For three players, 5 achievements, and 
for four players, 4 achievements. These can be a mixture of 
regular and special achievements.
If nobody has won yet and a card higher than age 10 must be 
drawn (if the 10 pile runs out, or through some dogma effects), 
the game ends immediately. In this case, each player’s current 
score is more important than achievements, as time has passed 
by their relevance. The player with the highest current score 
wins. If tied, most achievements wins. If still tied, the game is 
a draw.
With four players, you can play in teams. This creates a more 
stable four player game, if that is what you are looking for! In a 
team game, demand effects are not executed by your teammate, 
and if you share a non-demand effect with your teammate only, 
you do not get a free Draw action. Any dogma effect that refers 
to ‘opponent’ does not affect your teammate. To win, your team 
must get 6 achievements combined (you claim achievements 
without your partner’s score), or have the highest combined 
score if a player draws an 11 or higher.

Strategy 
Innovation plays differently nearly every time you take it out 
of the box. While long term planning is possible, it is often 
much more important to seize the best tactical option at any 
given moment. Splaying and thus amassing icons is important, 
as is spending time to accumulate some points. The first few 
times you play, it is probably easier to focus more on the cards 
that you have rather than trying to understand every possible 
action each player could take. 
Tips: icons (which appear in ages 1-3) are very powerful 
early, but can quickly be a liability later if not covered, due to cards 
like Gunpowder and Engineering. icons begin appearing in 
age 4. You most likely want them. Being completely shut out of the 
new technologies can be very painful, as the cards that use 	
 can yield many points in the mid-game.
Achieving is almost always the correct action, if you can do so. 
You might not have those points by your next turn, or someone 
else could take it first!
Age 9 and 10 cards are very powerful, and can end the game 
immediately. If you’re trying to win by achievements, you 
want to finish up before the game reaches this stage. Anything 
is possible in the late game, and your lead can quickly evaporate! 
If you’re behind, getting to 9s and 10s may be your last, best hope 
for victory. Remember that if you are behind on achievements, 
ending the game by drawing an 11 is an alternative.
FAQs
(2) Road Building: You may choose to meld only one card, even if 
you have two or more in your hand.
(3) Machinery: Multiple exchanges do happen with this card, even 
if you do not want to trade with specific players. 
(4) Anatomy: The victim does not have to choose a card that will 
result in returning a top card, unless that is all they have in their 
score pile.
(5) Measurement: If no pile can be splayed due to being single-card 
piles, you can still choose one of them and draw a 1.
(5) The Pirate Code: Arrrrrrr! Now give me your points. 
(6) Democracy: Potentially, every player can draw an 8, assuming 
each returns more cards than the last.
(7) Publication: The splay direction of the rearranged pile is retained.
(9) Fission: As explained above in the Remove: definition, Fission 
can remove all cards currently in play (hands, score piles, boards) 
from the game. Only achievements remain, and civilization must 
rebuild potentially from Prehistory. 
Do as much as you can: If you can’t do everything a dogma effect 
instructs you to do, then do all the things you are able to and ignore 
the rest.

Teaching Innovation
Teaching the game to new players can be daunting! What do 
you explain? When do you explain it? Here’s the path that we 
use when we demo and explain Innovation:
STAGING
Set up the piles, achievements, and create boards for two 
players with some age 1 cards. Good cards to use include 
Writing, The Wheel, and Archery. Make sure all five colors 
are out.
OVERVIEW
Explain that all the cards are innovations from throughout ten 
ages of history, from The Wheel all the way to The Internet. 
Achievements from the ages are how you win, and you can 
claim them by scoring points, which some card effects allow.
GAMEPLAY
Go over each of the four actions. Draw, Meld, Dogma, Achieve 
is a good order. While explaining Draw, mention how empty 
piles work. With Meld, demonstrate that cards meld over cards 
of the same color, and that they’ll create stacks. Explain that 
Dogma is how you use your cards’ powers, and then show how 
sharing works, and how a demand effect would work. Finally, 
when going over the Achieve action, be sure to mention that 
points aren’t spent, they’re a threshold.
KEYWORDS
Splay is the most important concept to go over here. Show 
that covered up cards are useful by splaying icons. 
Tuck, Return, and Score are other keywords to cover briefly, 
but for the most part, explain individual dogma effects during 
the game, not before it.
DURING THE GAME
Deal out two cards to each player, have them meld one, and 
start playing! Innovation is largely a “learn as you go” game. If 
you present it as such, people usually have more fun. Don’t tell 
players what to do, let them make some mistakes!
SMALL GAMES
A 4 player game of Innovation is not ideal for teaching. 2 or 
3 player games are better, because players have less downtime 
between turns and there is less going on to keep track of.
Teaching Innovation

Game Design: Carl Chudyk
Game Development: Chris Cieslik
Graphic Design: Alanna Cervenak
Card Back Art: Cara Judd
Editing: Alys Dutton
Playtesting: Jessica Maryott, Brian Tobia, Matt Murphy, John Brodin, 
Kevin Lundberg, Doug Orleans, Ted Vessenes, Rebecca Vessenes, Eric 
Reuss, The MIT SGS, and the attendees of KurisuCon. 
Also, thanks to all the BGG-ers that helped proofread the rules, 
reference cards, and to all the pre-release orderers, who provided 
much useful feedback on the first printing of the game.
Please feel free to contact us at AsmadiGames@gmail.com with any 
rules questions, or post to the BoardGameGeek forums, which we 
frequent. 
Also, you should play Win, Lose, or Banana at 
WinLoseOrBanana.com
In the hushed whispers of the night, a name cries 
out to you. Jinro. Experience his journey.
Search for: Jinro The Next Windmaster in the iOS 
App Store.
100% FREE, 110% ACTION PACKED, 200% TRIANGLE.
Information
There are lots of pieces of information in Innovation flying 
around, and theoretically you could try and keep track of every 
last one of them. We don’t usually do this because we don’t find 
it very fun! Here are some hard rules about information:
• You may never look at the identity of normal achievement 
cards, even if you have achieved them.
• You can always look at the cards in your hand, score pile, 
and board (even if covered up).
• You can always count and see the value of cards in each 
supply pile, each hand, and each score pile.
With your group, you should decide whether the following 
should be public information:
• The identity of cards partially covered up on an opponent’s 
• The quantity of cards in an unsplayed color on an opponent’s 
Here, we play that neither is open information. But there is no 
wrong answer -- if you want to be able to check the status of 
every card in play, that’s your choice!
Credits

©Asmadi Games, 2016
www.asmadigames.com