INTERNATIONAL CHECKERS – GAME RULES 
 
Also known as International Draughts, this version of checkers lets your single checkers jump (over enemy) 
forward and backward and the King can jump any distance along a diagonal. 
For more information, visit: http://www.itsyourturn.com/t_helptopic2130.html 
 
Checker Movement 
If no jump is available, a regular checker can only 
move one space diagonally forward to an 
unoccupied square. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
King Movement 
If no jump is available, the King can move any 
distance, forward or backward, along an 
unobstructed diagonal. It must land in an 
unoccupied square. In this picture, the red King 
can move to any square with a yellow dot. 
 
 
 
Capturing or Jumping 
A piece can capture opposing pieces by jumping over them. After completing a jump, a piece might have 
another jump available. It must make that jump too, and continue to jump until there are no more jumps 
available. 
If a jump is available at the start of your turn, you must take it. 
All pieces that are jumped over (captured) are not removed from the board until the turn is over. Also, you 
can’t jump over the same piece more than once in a turn. 
In international checkers, you can never jump over your own pieces. 
Checkers and Kings jump differently, as described below. 
 
 

Jumping with a Checker 
A regular checker can capture an opponent's 
checker or King by jumping over it. A checker 
can jump on a forward or backward diagonal. 
The opponent's piece must be on an adjacent 
diagonal square, and your checker must land in 
the empty square just beyond the opponent's 
piece. 
Here is a red checker jumping forward: 
 
 
Here is a red checker jumping backward: 
 
 
This red checker is making multiple jumps: 
 
 
 
A checker does not become a King if, while 
making multiple jumps, it lands momentarily on 
the opponent's end of the board and then jumps 
back to the middle of the board. To become a 
King, a checker must be on the opponent's end of 
the board when the turn is over. 
Jumping with a King 
The King can capture an opponent's checker or 
King by jumping over it. The King can jump any 
distance along a diagonal as long as the following 
conditions are met: 
The piece that will be captured 
must be on the same diagonal as 
the King. 
The King can’t jump over a piece 
of its own color. 
The King can only jump over one 
piece at a time. 
There must be at least one empty 
square just beyond the piece that 
will be captured. 
The King does not have to land in the first empty 
space beyond the piece it has jumped over. The 
King can choose what space it will land in, unless 
multiple jumps are available. In that case, the 
King must land in a space from which it can make 
the next jump. 
Here is an example of a King making a jump: 
 
 
Multiple jumps 
with the King 
can be 
complicated. When the King makes its first jump 
in a turn, it must land on a square that will 
allow it to make another jump, if another jump 
is possible. After landing, the King can turn and 
jump on a different diagonal, or it can jump on 
the same diagonal. The King must make its 
multiple jumps in a way that gives it the most 
jumps