Isis & Osiris 
 
Goldsieber, 2001 
designed by Michael Schacht 
for 2-4 players from 7 years 
 
Game material 
1 gameboard 
22 Isis tiles (2 x +1, 6 x +2, 2 x +3, 1 x +4, 
 2 x -1, 6 x -2, 2 x -3, 1 x -4) 
32 game stones (8 each in the 4 player colors) 
4 scoring stones (in the 4 player colors) 
4 +/- 20 markers 
1 rules booklet 
 
Before the first game, the Isis & Osiris tiles and the +/- 20 
markers must be carefully punched out of the frames. 
 
Set-up 
Place the gameboard in the middle of the table in easy 
reach of all players. It shows the 6x6 playing area in the 
middle, along with two scoring strips at the sides, blue 
for positive points and red for penalty points. 
The +/- 20 markers are placed next to the scoring strips. 
Each player chooses a color and places the 
corresponding scoring stone in front of himself. 
The 22 Isis & Osiris tiles are mixed together face-down. 
The tiles show either blue, positive points, or red, 
negative points, on the front. The back of the tiles 
shows an eye. 
Each player now gets game stones in his color and 
face-down tiles in accordance with the number of 
players: 
2 players: 8 game stones and 11 tiles 
3 players: 6 game stones and 7 tiles 
4 players: 5 game stones and 5 tiles 
Note: Players may not look at their tiles but must set them in 
front of themselves as a face-down reserve. 
The remaining tiles and unused game stones are removed 
from the game and put back in the box. Players may not 
look at the front of these tiles. 
 
Goal of the game 
At the end of the game, each game stone has a value 
based on the neighboring Isis & Osiris tiles. Each player 
tries to score the best result through skillful placement of his 
game stones and tiles. 
 
Course of the game 
The players decide who will begin. The active player must 
execute one of the two following actions: 
 
1. Place one of his game stones on an any free space on 
the board. 
2. Take a face-down tile from his reserve and turn it face-
up so that all players can see its value. Then he turns it 
face-down again and places it on any free space on the 
board. Note: the eye on the back of the tiles must 
always point in the same direction! 
 
The next player in clockwise order then takes his turn. 
 
Game stones and tiles may only be placed on free spaces. 
That is, only on spaces which are not already occupied by 
another game stone or tile. 
 
Once a player has turned over a tile, he must play it. He 
cannot decide to play a game stone instead. When a player 
has no more tiles, he must place a game stone on his turn. 
Of course, if he has no more game stones, he must place a 
tile. 
 
End of the game 
The game ends as soon as a player places a game stone or 
tile in the last free space on the board. All unplayed tiles 
and game stones still in front of the players are returned to 
the box. 
 
Scoring 
Now all the tiles are turned over so that everyone one can 
see their values. One by one, the game stones of each 
color are scored. Add the values of all tiles that are 
immediately adjacent (horizontally or vertically, not 
diagonally) to each game stone. The net value of a game 
stone can be negative. 
 
Each player adds the values of all of his game stones and 
marks the sum with his scoring stone on the corresponding 
scoring strip. Positive points are recorded on the blue 
scoring strip, negative points on the red scoring strip. If a 
player's score exceeds more than 20 points plus or minus, 
he takes one of the +/- 20 markers and places it with the 
appropriate side face-up in front of himself. Thereafter, he 
only marks the points in excess of 20 on the appropriate 
scoring strip. [Trans. note: presumably, if your score later 
goes below 20 points plus or minus, you give back the +/- 
20 marker - PC] 
 
Once they have been scored, game stones are removed 
from the board in order to make further scoring easier to 
see. 
 
Example: 
The green player scores with stone A: 
-1 -2 = -3 points 
 
and with stone B: 
+4 -1 -2 = +1 points. 
 
Altogether the player has thus scored 
-3 (stone A) +1 (stone B) = -2 points 
 
The violet player scores 
+1 +2 = +3 points. 
 
The player with the most points wins. If all players have a 
negative score, the player with the lowest negative score 
wins. 
 

 
 
 
 
Game variant 
All the normal rules still apply. 
During set-up, only the game stones are distributed 
according to the number of players. The Isis & Osiris tiles 
are mixed up face-down and placed as a group in a 
common reserve next to the gameboard. 
 
If a player wants to play an lsis & Osiris tile, he takes it from 
the common face-down reserve. He turns it face-up in front 
him of so that all players can see the value. He then turns it 
face-down again and places it on an any free space. 
 
When the common reserve of Isis & Osiris tiles is depleted, 
players may only play their game stones.