The Esoteric Order of Gamers
orderofgamers.com
High quality materials for the dedicated devotee of immersive, thematic tabletop games.
Game rules summaries, foamcore box plans, articles, interviews, reviews, videos, 
tutorials, forums – and lots more.
 @EOGamers 
 gplus.to/EOGamers 
 facebook.com/EOGamers 
 EsotericOrderGamers 
 instagram.com/orderofgamers 
Hello fellow gamer! 
 DOES THIS MAKE 
 YOUR GAMING 
 MORE FUN? 
I’ve been supplying tabletop 
gamers with free, professional 
quality rules summaries like this 
one for more than a decade.
Can you spare a few $ a month 
from your gaming budget to 
support my continuing work?
Sign up with Patreon for 
bonus rewards:
patreon.com/esotericorder
Thankyou! Universal Head

Game: 	
ISLA DORADA
Publisher: 	
Fantasy Flight Games (2010)
Page 1: 	
Rules summary front
Page 2: 	
Rules summary back 
Page 3: 	
Play reference sheet 
v1.1
Oct 2018
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for additional reference. 
Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher and copyright holder, and does not 
benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the original game is copyrighted by the publisher and 
used without permission. This PDF may not be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
Created by 
Peter Gifford 
(Universal Head) for:
In need of exceptional 
quality graphic design for 
your next project? 
www.universalhead.com

Setup
Place the board on the table, and the 16 exploration 
markers in the numbered spaces at the top of the 
board, with the red markers on spaces 4 and 9.
Place the expedition figure on base camp where the 
crashed blimp is located. Each player takes 10 gold. 
The youngest player takes the leader token.
Goal Cards
Separate the goal cards by type (starting treasure 
cards, standard treasure cards, curse cards, and 
destiny cards), then shuffle each deck.
Place the deck of standard treasure cards facedown 
next to the board to create the treasure deck.
Deal each player 3 starting treasure cards, 2 destiny 
cards, and 1 curse card. Each player must keep their 
curse card secretly in their hand.
Each player selects 1 destiny card to keep in their 
hand, and discards the other without revealing it.
Each player selects 2 starting treasure cards to 
keep in their hand, and discards the other without 
revealing it.
Return the remaining and discarded starting treasure 
cards to the box without being revealed.
Place the remaining curse cards in a facedown deck 
next to the board.
Place the destiny cards discarded by players at the 
bottom of the destiny deck, then place this deck 
facedown next to the board.
Adventure Cards
Shuffle the adventure cards and deal 6 cards to each 
player. The remaining adventure cards are placed in 
a facedown deck near the board. Reveal the top 4 
cards of this deck and place them faceup in a row 
next to the deck.
If any player has a card in their starting hand with 
a bolt symbol in the upper-right corner, they must 
discard it and take a new one; repeat this process if 
they draws another card with a bolt symbol. Similarly, 
discard any faceup card with a bolt symbol and 
replace it with a new card. Shuffle all the discarded 
cards back into the deck.
Starting the Game
The first round now begins; the game lasts at least 
16 rounds.
The number of cards in a player’s hand and their 
amount of gold has are public knowledge, but goal 
and adventure cards must be kept hidden.
A Game Round
1. Bidding
Players use adventure cards to bid for the right to 
move the expedition. Kamels allow a player to bid on 
movement over sand paths, Gonogos on movement 
over jungle paths, and so on.
The player with the leader token places the expedition 
figure at the beginning of the path they want it to 
take, then announces their bid and destination; they 
can bid any number they can pay, including 0.
Going clockwise, each player must either pass or 
make a higher bid. When a player makes a higher bid 
for a different path, they move the expedition figure 
to indicate which path they want it to take.
Bidding continues until all other players have passed 
after a bid. The highest bidder becomes the new 
expedition leader, takes the leader token and must 
discard a number of adventure cards equal to their 
bid. The bid must be paid entirely by the highest 
bidder. 
A player who has passed can later re-enter the 
bidding. A player can make a higher bid for the 
same path the expedition is already on. A player 
who has bid on a path can later bid on a different 
one. A player cannot bid more than they can pay in 
cards, but they do not have to show their cards when 
bidding. Players cannot trade or donate cards.
A player who bids 4 or more can play an Ovetos to 
end the bidding round immediately. 
A player who is bidding can also play a Juju card on 
any other player, who cannot then take part in the 
bidding for the rest of this round.
Yaks can be spent for travel on a mountain path.
Kamels can be spent for travel on a sand path.
Gonogos can be spent for travel on a jungle path.
Kayaks can be spent for travel on a water path (river, 
lake, or sea). Each has a value of 2 (ie, a bid of 4 on 
a water path is paid for with only 2 Kayak cards).
River movement is only downstream in the direction 
indicated, but the expedition does not have to stop 
at the first site if the river continues beyond. It must 
stop, however, if it reaches a lake or sea entrance.
Drako and Zeppelins can be spent for air travel to 
any site on the board. They can also be used as joker 
cards to combine with other adventure cards when 
paying for travel on any path (including water paths).
A Drako has a value of 2 and costs 1 gold to play; a 
Zeppelin has a value of 5 and costs 3 gold to play.
Air travel is only possible with these cards. Announce 
the destination and leave the expedition figure on 
the starting site. Players cannot make a first bid of 0 
for air travel. 
A Shaman can be played with any number of 
identical animal cards (Yak, Kamel, or Gonogo) to 
change them into a different type of animal. 
2. Moving
Move the expedition figure and the lowest available 
exploration marker to the destination site. 
Except for river movement and air travel, the 
expedition always moves to the first neighboring site 
that it reaches and stops.
The destination location has now been explored. 
If the expedition returns to a site that has already 
been explored, place a second (or third, etc) marker 
on the same site.
Do not place a marker if the expedition moves to the 
base camp site.
Mar Maldita
To track sea travel for the Mar Maldita destiny card, 
the expedition leader places a sea travel token on a 
sea path each time the expedition travels by sea. 
Once both tokens have been placed, there is no need 
for more.
Sangaia
During movement, any player can play a Sangaia 
card. Instead of stopping at the destination site, the 
expedition leader moves the expedition figure again 
on a different path of the same type (water paths are 
all considered to be the same type). The card cannot 
be played if there is no other path of the same type. 
Do not place a marker on the site where the 
expedition did not stop.
If the expedition traveled by air, the expedition leader 
must move the expedition figure to any neighboring 
site of the original destination.
3. Being Cursed
If a player has a curse card for the site where the 
expedition now stands, they must play it, faceup with 
their gold and found treasures. 
4. Finding Treasures
If a player holds a treasure card for the site where 
the expedition now stands, they play it faceup next 
to their gold. 
These cards must be visible to all players. If a player 
holds 2 or more treasure cards of the same site, they 
can play all of them at once.
Bonus (+3) A player who plays a treasure card can 
play a Bonus card at the same time if it features an 
identical treasure symbol. Place played Bonus cards 
faceup next to that player’s gold and treasure cards.
Bongo A player can discard a Bongo card in order to 
play exactly 1 treasure card of a neighboring site.
Neighboring sites include any land, river, or lake 
paths that are directly connected to the site where 
the expedition now stands (not sites connected by 
sea paths).

5. Receiving Cable News
If the exploration marker placed on a site is red—
which happens during round 4 and round 9—the 
players receive a cable newsflash of other treasures 
that are on the island.
During round 4, each player receives 2 cards 
from the treasure deck, keeping one in hand and 
discarding the other.
During round 9, each player receives 3 cards from 
the treasure deck, keeping 2 in hand and discarding 
the other.
Shuffle discarded cards and place them on the 
bottom of the treasure deck.
If a player receives a treasure card for a site where 
the expedition has already stopped, or the site where 
the expedition is currently located, they cannot play 
that treasure card until the expedition moves to the 
site again on a later turn.
6. Drawing Adventure Cards
Starting with the expedition leader and going 
clockwise, each player draws 1 adventure card at 
no cost. 
A player may then buy 1 (and only 1) additional card 
for a price of 1 gold.
When drawing, a player can take one of the 4 faceup 
cards or the top card of the adventure deck. 
When a faceup card is taken, replace it immediately 
with the top card of the deck.
If the adventure card deck is exhausted, shuffle the 
discard pile to create a new deck.
After all players have drawn adventure cards, any 
player with more than 10 adventure cards in hand 
must discard cards of their choice to reduce their 
hand size to 10. Then begin the next round.
End of the Game
After the final exploration marker is placed on the 
board, the game ends when the round is completed.
Players reveal their destiny cards and score:
1 point for each remaining gold;
Points for treasure they have found (played faceup 
treasure cards and Bonus cards);
Points for their destiny card; and
Negative points for any curse cards they played.
The player with the highest total wins.
Bolt Symbol Adventure Cards
Cards with a bolt symbol are special and are not 
added to a player’s hand. When a player draws one of 
these cards, faceup or facedown, they immediately 
discard it and perform its specific effect:
Makaks
Draw a random adventure card from the hand of 
another player of your choice, then add it to your 
hand.
Bigfoot
The first player who draws a Bigfoot card places the 
Bigfoot figure on any jungle, mountain, or sand path 
on the board. This path is now blocked and cannot 
be used by the expedition as long as Bigfoot stands 
there.
If the Bigfoot figure is already on the board, you must 
move Bigfoot to a new path. Bigfoot can be moved to 
block any land path.
Leviathan
Leviathan cards work like Bigfoot cards. Place the 
Leviathan figure on any water path. The Leviathan 
blocks the path exactly like Bigfoot, and can be 
moved to block any water path.
Antik
Draw 2 cards from the treasure deck; add 1 to 
your hand and place the other at the bottom of the 
treasure deck.
Istwa
Draw a destiny card from the deck, then either 
discard it or discard your current destiny card and 
keep the new one. Place the discarded destiny card 
on the bottom of the destiny deck.
Marabout
Draw a treasure card at random from another player’s 
hand (not from treasure cards already faceup on the 
table), then add that card to your hand.
Diawas
Immediately shuffle together the adventure card 
deck, the faceup adventure cards, and the discard 
pile (including the Diawas card). Then reveal 4 new 
faceup cards and choose 1 new adventure card from 
either the faceup cards or the deck.
Panda
Choose any 2 players (including yourself). Each 
player chooses and discards 3 adventure cards.
Samedi
Choose 2 players. Each player draws 1 curse card 
and adds it to their hand.
If a player draws a curse card for a site where the 
expedition has already stopped, or the site where the 
expedition is currently located, they will only have 
to play this card if the expedition moves to this site 
during a later round.
Alternative Cooperative Bidding
Players use adventure cards to bid for the right to 
move the expedition.
The player with the leader token places the 
expedition figure at the beginning of the path 
they want it to take, then announces their bid and 
destination; they can bid any number they can pay, 
including 0.
Going clockwise, each player must either pass, add 
to an existing bid, or make a new bid and propose a 
new destination.
If a player adds to an existing bid, they state how 
much more they are willing to pay to strengthen the 
original bid and the total value of the new bid. 2 or 
more players can add to the same bid.
A player can propose a new destination and bid at 
least 1, even when their bid is lower than the highest 
bid made so far, hoping that other players will add 
to it.
If, at any time during the bidding round, 2 or more 
players are committed to the same shared bid, 
then none of these players can bid on any other 
destination.
Move the expedition figure to the path with the 
current highest bid.
Bidding continues until all other players have passed 
after a bid.
The new destination is determined by the highest 
current bid.
A player who bids 4 or more, or who adds to an 
existing bid for a total of 4 or more, can play an 
Ovetos to end the bidding round immediately. 
A player who is bidding can also play a Juju card 
on any other player, who cannot then take part in 
the bidding for the rest of the round. If the targeted 
player was part of a shared bid with other players, 
the amount they already committed to the bid is still 
valid, but they cannot add to it.
A player who has passed can later re-enter the 
bidding. A player who has bid on a path can later bid 
on a different one, but only if they were alone in their 
previous bid. A player cannot bid more than they can 
pay in cards, but they do not have to show their cards 
when bidding.
v1

1. Bidding
The player with the leader token places the expedition 
figure at the start of their chosen path, then announces 
their bid in adventure cards (any number they can pay, 
including 0) and destination.
Going clockwise, each player must either pass or make 
a higher bid. A player bidding higher for a different path 
moves the figure to the start of the new path.
Bidding continues until all other players have passed. 
The highest bidder becomes the new expedition leader, 
takes the leader token and discards adventure cards 
equal to their bid. 
A player who bids 4 or more can play an Ovetos to end 
the bidding round immediately. 
A bidding player can also play a Juju card on any other 
player, who cannot then take part in the bidding for the 
rest of this round.
Yaks can be spent for travel on a mountain path.
Kamels can be spent for travel on a sand path.
Gonogos can be spent for travel on a jungle path.
Kayaks have a value of 2 and can be spent for travel on 
a water path (river, lake, or sea).
River movement is only downstream in the direction 
indicated, but the expedition does not have to stop at 
the first site if the river continues beyond. It must stop, 
however, if it reaches a lake or sea entrance.
Drako and Zeppelins can be spent for air travel to any 
site on the board. They can also be used as joker cards 
to combine with other adventure cards when paying for 
travel on any path.
Drako has a value of 2 and costs 1 gold to play. 
Zeppelin has a value of 5 and costs 3 gold to play.
Air travel is only possible with these cards. Announce 
the destination and leave the expedition figure on the 
starting site. Players cannot make a first bid of 0 for 
air travel. 
A Shaman can be played with any number of identical 
animal cards (Yak, Kamel, or Gonogo) to change them 
into a different type of animal. 
2. Moving
Move the expedition figure and the lowest available 
exploration marker to the destination site.
Any player can play a Sangaia: instead of stopping at 
the site, the expedition leader moves the figure again 
on a different path of the same type. If the travel was 
by air, move the figure to any neighboring site of the 
original destination.
3. Being Cursed
If a player has a curse card for the site where the 
expedition now stands, they must play it, faceup with 
their gold and found treasures. 
4. Finding Treasures
A player who holds 1 or more treasure cards for the site 
where the expedition now stands, plays them faceup 
next to their gold. 
If you play a treasure card you may also play a Bonus 
card with an identical treasure symbol. 
You may discard a Bongo card in order to play 1 
treasure card of a neighboring site (any land, river, or 
lake paths that are directly connected to the current 
site, and not connected by a sea path).
5. Receiving Cable News
If the placed exploration marker is red:
During round 4, each player receives 2 cards from the 
treasure deck, keeping 1 and discarding the other.
During round 9, each player receives 3 cards from the 
treasure deck, keeping 2 and discarding the other.
Shuffle discarded cards and place them on the bottom 
of the treasure deck.
6. Drawing Adventure Cards
Starting with the expedition leader and going clockwise, 
each player draws 1 adventure card at no cost. 
A player may then buy 1 additional card for 1 gold; take 
one of the 4 faceup cards (replace it immediately) or 
the top card of the adventure deck. 
If the adventure card deck is exhausted, shuffle the 
discard pile to create a new deck.
After all cards have been drawn, any player with more 
than 10 adventure cards in hand must choose and 
discard cards back to 10.