2. Draw Tiles and Set Prices
Each player draws 3 landscape tiles from 
the bag and places them face up in front of 
their player screen. Behind your screens, 
simultaneously assign your discard marker to 
one of the tiles you drew (which will go back 
into the bag later), and assign at least 1 coin 
from your supply to each of the other two 
tiles. If you have gold left, you should keep 
it in your hand to hide the amount from the 
other players.
Once all of you have finished assigning gold 
and marker to the tiles, remove your player 
screens and place them aside.
Setup
I	
Place the game board in the middle of 
the table. Use the front side in a 2 to 
4-player game (as indicated) and the 
back side in a 5-player game.
III	 Place the round marker on the 
first space of the round track.
VI	 Put the landscape tiles into the bag and shuffle them 
thoroughly.
IV	 Place the coins in a supply next to 
the game board, easily accessible to 
all players.
V	 Each player chooses a color and takes: a player 
screen, a landscape tile with a castle, a score token, 
and a discard marker in the chosen color. (Put the 
components in the colors that are not in play back into 
the game box.)
	
Place your score token on space “0” of 
the scoring track on the game board. 
	
Place your landscape tile with your castle face up in 
front of you. This is the first tile in your clan’s territory.
	
If you are the youngest player, take the starting player 
marker and place it in front of yourself. You get to go 
first.
II	 Shuffle the scoring tiles and place a random 
scoring tile face up on each of the spaces 
marked “A” to “D”. Put the remaining 
scoring tiles back into the game box – you 
will not need them.
A
A
blue player screen
blue starting castle tile
discard marker
Course of Play
The game is played over 
6 rounds (5 rounds in 
a 5-player game). Each 
round goes through the 
following six phases:
1.	 Income
2.	 Draw Tiles and Set Prices
3.	 Discard a Tile
4.	 Buy a Tile
5.	 Build
6.	 End of Round and Scoring
After the final round, 
there is a final scoring.
1. Income
Each player receives income: You receive 5 gold for your castle. You receive 1 additional gold for 
each tile with barrels of whisky connected to your castle via roads. 
Beginning in round 3, you receive additional gold for each player whose token is ahead of yours 
on the scoring track (i.e. who has more victory points than you). The amount of gold you receive 
per player increases from round to round and is displayed next to the round track.
You can make change from gold at any time, if need be.
Example: tile income
Total income: 13 gold
This tile earns no 
gold as the road 
is not connected 
to the castle.
Example: In round 5, the round track shows 3 gold. 
Two players have more victory points than blue –
blue receives an additional 2x3 gold.
+3 +3
Example: The tile in the middle has been 
marked with the discard marker. In the next 
phase, it will go back into the bag.
6. End of Round and Scoring
All players receive victory points according to the scoring tiles of the current round. Which of the 
four scoring tiles apply in which round is indicated on the scoring track by letters A to D. For each 
victory point you receive, advance your token on the scoring track by one space.
Each scoring tile will only be used three times per game. See the last page of this rule book for an 
explanation of what each of them does.
After scoring, pass the Starting Player tile to the next player in clockwise order. The new starting 
player moves the round token one space forward. After the final round, there is a final scoring.
4. Buy a Tile
Beginning with the Starting Player, each player in clockwise order can buy exactly one tile from 
another player. To do so, pay an amount of gold from your remaining supply equal to the assigned 
amount at the tile you want to buy. As the selling player, you not only receive the proceeds from 
the sale, but you also immediately take back the gold you assigned to that tile. As the buying 
player, place the tile you purchased beside your screen – in phase 5, you will add it to your clan 
territory.
If you cannot or do not want to buy a tile, you must pass. After all players have either bought a 
tile or passed, you receive the remaining tiles in front of you, but you lose all of the gold you 
assigned to those tiles. Put the lost gold into the general supply.
3. Discard a Tile
Each player puts the tile marked with their discard marker back into the bag. Then shuffle the 
contents of the bag thoroughly.
legal tile 
placement
completed 
area
illegal 
tile placement
5. Build
All players must add all of the tiles they 
received during this round to their clan 
territory, according to the following place­
ment rules: Each tile you add must share 
an edge with another tile in your display 
(this can be a tile you just placed, too). If 
two tiles share an edge, the terrain on that 
edge must be the same (pasture, mountain, 
water). Important: Roads DO NOT need to 
be continued.
Some scoring tiles award victory points for 
completed areas. An area is considered 
completed if it is fully enclosed by areas 
of a different terrain type. Again, roads do 
not count.
-2-
-3-
- 4-
number of players
+1
+1
+5
If you cannot place a tile according to the placement rules the 
tile goes back into the bag (you do not get back any money).
Use the pictured 
scoring tiles for 
your first game.

A Tile Placement Game
for 2 to 5 Players 
by Andreas Pelikan & 
Alexander Pfister
Welcome to the Isle of Skye
Five clans are fighting for dominance over the island. Only the chieftain who best develops their clan 
territory and trades most cleverly will become king of the Isle of Skye. Next time everything will be 
different though, so play again and have revenge!
Components (Carefully punch out the cardboard pieces before your first play!)
Objective
Over 6 rounds (5 in a 5-player game), collect the most victory points and become the king 
of the Isle of Skye.
Scoring Tile Summary
2 VPs for each square of 
4 landscape tiles. Landscape tiles 
can be part of multiple squares.
1 VP for each completed area 
in the clan territory.
1 VP for each sheep in the clan territory.
3 VPs for each completed area 
of at least 3 landscape tiles in 
the clan territory.
1/3/6 VPs for each mountain area in the 
clan territory with 1/2/3 brochs.
A single mountain area with more than 
3 brochs is still only worth 6 VPs.
5 VPs for each set of broch, farm, and 
lighthouse in the clan territory. Each 
building can only be part of one set.
5 VPs for the player with the most tiles 
with barrels of whisky in their clan 
territory, and 2 VPs for the player with the 
second most tiles with barrels of whisky.
5 VPs, and the 2 VPs are not awarded. If it is a tie for 
the 2nd place, each tied player receives 2 VPs. You 
must have at least 1 barrel of whisky in your clan 
territory to receive any VPs for this scoring tile.
5 VPs for the player with the most ships 
in their clan territory, and 2 VPs for the 
player with the second most ships.
5 VPs, and the 2 VPs are not awarded. If it is a tie 
for the 2nd place, each tied player receives 2 VPs. 
You must have at least 1 ship in your clan territory 
to receive any VPs for this scoring tile.
1 VP for each sheep and each cattle that 
is orthogonally or diagonally adjacent to 
a farm in the clan territory. Also, 1 victory 
point for each sheep and each cattle that is 
on a farm tile.
5 VPs for the player with the most gold, 
and 2 VPs for the player with the second 
most gold.
5 VPs, and the 2 VPs are not awarded. If it is a tie 
for the 2nd place, each tied player receives 2 VPs. 
You must have at least 1 gold to receive any VPs 
for this scoring tile.
2 VPs for each cattle that is 
connected to the castle via roads.
3 VPs for each water area in the clan 
territory with at least 1 ship and 
at least 1 adjacent lighthouse.
1 VP for each tile in the clan territory 
that is connected to the castle via roads.
3 VPs for each vertical line of at least 
3 contiguous landscape tiles in the clan 
territory.
2 VPs for each landscape tile in your 
largest completed water area.
2 VPs for each completed mountain area 
in the clan territory.
End of the Game and Final Scoring
After the final round, you receive victory points (VPs) for tiles with a scroll you placed in your clan 
territory. There are the following tiles with a scroll:
for every 2 sheep 
per cattle
1 VP for every 2 tiles 
with barrels of whisky
per broch 
(round tower)
for every 2 ships 
per farm
You do not receive 0.5 VPs for these scrolls. 
Example: You receive 2 VPs for 5 objects of 
the same type. 
per lighthouse
If a scroll is in a completed area, you receive 
double the victory points for it.
Finally, you receive victory points for gold you 
have: 5 gold are worth 1 victory point.
1 double-sided game board
16 scoring tiles
73 landscape tiles
(green backs)
5 scoring tokens
(1 in each player color)
1 rule book
1 round token
1 starting player 
marker
1 cloth bag
6 player screens
(must be assembled before play; 
1 spare player screen)
5 landscape tiles with a castle
(differently colored backs)
6 discard markers
(1 spare)
- 5-
- 6-
-1-
gold coins
22 x
20 x
18 x
13 x
These icons on the 
game board are to
remind you of the 
final scoring values.
The player with the most victory points wins. 
In case of a tie, leftover gold breaks the tie.
MAYFAIR GAMES
mayfairgames.com
Mayfair Games, Inc
8060 St. Louis Ave.
Skokie, IL 60076
© 2015 Lookout GmbH
Hiddigwarder Straße 37,
D- 27804 Berne, 
Germany. 
 Copyright © 2015 Lookout Spiele and Mayfair Games. Inc. 
“Isle of Skye”, and all other product titles and marks listed herein, 
are trademarks of Lookout Spiele Mayfair Games, Inc.
All rights reserved.
If you have any damaged or missing parts, please contact us at
custserv@mayfairgames.com – Mayfair Games, Inc.; Skokie, IL
You can also call us at 1-847-677-6655.
MAYFAIRGAMES.COM
TM