Utility cards
• When a player plays a utility card, he
places it face-up in his play area. Utility
cards are not discarded at the end of
the player’s turn, but remain in the
player’s play area. When a player has a utility card 
in his play area, he may use the function of the card 
anytime during his turns, even on the turn when he
plays the card. 
Important: each use of a utility card costs the player 
1 action marker!
• A player may use each of his utility cards only once per
turn. When a player uses a utility card, he turns it up-
side-down to show it has been used. 
• A player may never have more than 3 utility cards in
his play area. If a player wants to play a 4th utility card,
he must first discard one of the utility cards in his play
area. He may even discard a card he has already used in
this turn. 
• A player may have more than one of the same utility
card in his play area, which will give him the ability to
use that function more than once (but, just once per
card) in a turn. 
• At the end of his turn, the player turns his used utility
cards back, so they available for his next turn.
People
When a player plays a people card, he
executes the action described in the text on
the card and discards the card.
Animals
When a player plays an animal card, he
executes the action described in the text on
the card and discards the card. In all cases,
his opponent may play a guard card in
reaction to the animal card. The playing of a guard card
costs no action markers and negates the action of the
animal card for both players. The guard card and the
animal card are then discarded. 
G A M E E N D
When a player has 60 or more gold at the end of his turn,
the game is nearly over. His opponent takes one last turn
(5 action markers). After that, if the opponent has the
same amount or more gold than the player who triggered
the end of the game, he is the winner. Otherwise, the
player who triggered the end of the game is the winner. 
I M P O R T A N T R U L E S
• Do not forget: if a player has 2 or more action markers
left (unused) at the end of his turn, he takes 1 gold
from the bank!
• The players can have as many cards in their hands as
they want.
• If a player does not have enough room on his market
stands for wares he receives as a result of the effects of
people and animal cards, he can choose which to take
and which to leave in the supply.
• The players’ gold is open to each other. If a player has
no gold and wants to take an action that costs gold, he
may not take the action. 
• In order to better differentiate the utility cards from
the person and animals cards, the utility cards have a
different border and a darker background for the text
field.
• If the card supply is exhausted, shuffle the discard stack
and place it face-down as the new card supply. 
The author: 
Rüdiger Dorn, born in 1969, lives with his wife Maja and
three children in Nürnberg. He is a teacher who has
designed several children, family, and adult games. He
is especially fond of games that offer players new
possibilities, like Jambo. 
Development: 
TM-Spiele
Illustration:
Michael Menzel
Production: 
Pohl & Rick
English translation & editing
Anna & Jay Tummelson
The author and publisher 
thank all the test players 
and rule readers for their 
comments and suggestions. 
© 2004 KOSMOS Verlag
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
www.riograndegames.com
e-mail: RioGames@aol.com
Art.-Nr: 690038 
All Rights Reserved
Made in Germany
G O A L
The winner is the player with
the most gold at the end of the
game.
C O N T E N T S
112 cards:
Good business for two clever merchants, 12 years and up
O V E R V I E W
“Jambo” means “Hello” in Swahili. With this greeting, happy merchants welcomed their customers in Central Africa before
colonization. The players are traders in those days, competing to be the first to earn 60 gold by selling tea, hide, fruits, salt,
silk, and trinkets. The game is played with cards, which represent goods, people (which can help you or hinder your
opponent), and animals (which add a bit of spice to the game). Players take turns with up to 5 actions per turn until one
player reaches the goal and wins the game.
5 action markers 
2 large market stands
5 small market stands
40 ware cards
22 utility cards
29 people
cards
14 animal
cards
36 wares:
52 gold pieces:
trinkets
23 small 
with value 1 
29 large 
with value 5
hides
tea
silk
fruit
salt
6/3
RIO
GRANDE
GAMES
RIO
GRANDE
GAMES
ad_engrules5.qxd.1 17.09.2004 9:30 Uhr Seite 1

P R E P A R A T I O N
• Before the first game, carefully
remove the wares, gold, and action
markers from their frames.
• The players sit opposite each other at
the table. 
• Each player takes 1 large market
stand (green or red) and places it in
his play area (the area before him on
the table). Each can place up to six
wares on his large market stand.
• Shuffle the remaining cards and place
them face-down on the table between
the players as the card supply. Each
player draws 5 cards from the card
supply as his starting hand. 
• Place the wares as a supply next to
the card supply. 
• Place the gold as the bank next to
the wares. Each player takes his
starting capital of 20 gold (3 large 5
gold pieces and 5 small 1 gold
pieces) from the bank, placing his
gold in his play area.
• Place the 5 action markers in the
middle of the table.
• The players choose a starting player,
who begins the game. 
P L A Y I N G T H E G A M E
Note for the first game: Jambo lives on the clever play
of valuable cards at the right times. Players should use
their first games to learn the cards and how they can be
used and save serious strategy play for later games.
Play overview
Each player owns a large market stand, on which he
displays his wares. During the game, the players can
acquire small market stands to enable them to show and
sell more wares. By playing ware cards, players can buy
wares from the supply to place on their market stands.
Similarly, players can use the ware cards to sell wares on
their market stands to earn money on their investment.
The price a player must pay to buy or receives when he
sells is shown on the ware cards. Players can play people
and animal cards to help themselves or hinder their
opponents. Players also can place utility cards in their
play areas to give them special abilities during their turns. 
Generally: 
a player’s turn is divided into 2 phases that must always
be played in the following order:
1. draw cards
2. play cards
A player may use 5 action markers in his turn. For each
action a player takes, his opponent counts it by
taking 1 action marker from the middle of the
table. After the player’s turn, his opponent puts
the markers back in the middle of the table.
Important bonus: if a player has 2 or more action
markers left (untaken by his opponent) at the end of his
turn, he takes 1 gold from the bank. 
Phase 1: draw cards
• The player draws the top-most card from the card
supply, looks at it secretly, and chooses to either add it
to his hand or discard it face-up on the discard stack.
This costs 1 action marker.
• If the player adds the card to his hand, he is done with
phase 1 and moves immediately to phase 2. In phase 2,
the player may draw no more cards from the card
supply, except when using an action whose text allows
it.
• If the player discards the card, he can draw another
card or move to phase 2. 
• Each card draw costs the player 1 action marker. 
• In this way, the player may draw and look at up to 5
cards, but may only keep 1. Also, he may only choose to
keep the last card he draws. Thus, for example, he
cannot draw 3 cards and choose to take the first card
he drew. 
• It is possible for a player to spend all 5 actions markers
drawing cards in phase 1. In this case, the player has no
phase 2.
• The player may also choose to bypass phase 1, drawing
no cards and go directly to phase 2. In this case, he can
spend all 5 action markers on phase 2 actions. 
Note: in most cases, players will spend 1 or 2 action
markers drawing cards in phase 1, so they can add 1
card to their hands.
Phase 2: play cards
Generally: playing 1 card costs 1 action! 
Any exceptions are noted in the text of the cards.
There are 5 kinds of cards that are used in different ways:
• small market stand
• ware cards
• utility cards
• people cards
• animal cards
The cards in detail:
Small market stand
• In addition to the large market stand that each player
starts the game with, the players may build small
market stands during the game by playing small market
stand cards from their hands. They place the small
market stands next to their large market stands and
they remain there for the rest of the game. The small
market stand has room for 3 wares. 
• The first player who builds a small market stand pays 6
gold to the bank to build it. All further small market
stands (for either player) cost the player building it
only 3 gold, paid to the bank.
• A player may build several small market stands during
the game. A player’s small market stand limit is the 5
small market stands in the game.
Ware cards
The ware cards are used for
either buying or selling wares,
and are discarded after use.
Most ware cards show 3 wares,
but a few show 6 wares.
When buying, the player pays the bank the
amount of gold shown on the lower left of the card,
and takes all the wares shown on the card from
the supply. He then places these wares on empty places
on his market stands.
• If a player does not have enough empty places on his
market stands for the wares shown on the ware card, he
may not play it.
• If a player does not have enough gold to pay for the
wares, he may not play it.
• A player may also not play a ware card if all the wares
shown on the card are not available in the supply. He
must always buy all the wares shown on the ware card
he plays! 
• The large market stands have space for 6 wares. The
players pay nothing to use five of these spaces. However,
when a player fills a sixth space with a ware, he must
pay 2 gold to the bank. He pays this anytime he fills a
sixth space on his large market stand, regardless of
which space on the market stand it is. 
Note: most of the time it is advantageous to build a
small market stand. In this way, you can avoid the
cost of using the 6th space on your large market stand
and offer more wares for sale. 
When selling, the player takes from the bank the
amount of gold shown on the lower right of the
card, and places the wares shown on the card
back in the supply. 
• A player may not play a ware card to sell wares unless
he has all the wares shown on the card on his market
stands.
space for up to three utility cards
space for up to three utility cards
action markers
supply for gold pieces
supply for wares
large 
market stand
space for
discards
face-down 
card supply
large 
market stand
6/3
G A M E S E T U P :
ad_engrules5.qxd.1 17.09.2004 9:31 Uhr Seite 4