Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 JUDGE DREDD
Pub: 	
Games Workshop (1982)
Page 1: 	 Rules summary	
	
v2
Nov 2008
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
For best results, print on card, laminate and trim to size.

Setup
Shuffle the Turn Start Card and a number of Judge 
Cards equal to the number of players less one. Deal 
one face up to each player.
The player with the Turn Start Card (the First Player) 
places his playing piece in the Starting Sector of his 
choice. 
The player to his left places his piece in an 
unoccupied Starting Sector and so on.
Starting Sectors are:
1.	Grand Hall of Justice	
2. Academy of Law	
3.	City Hall	
4.	Justice Department
5.	West 17 Test Labs
6.	Spaceport
The First Player sets up 6 Crimes:
1.	Turn the top card of the Sector Pack over to find 
the Sector from which a Crime has been reported.
2.	Place the top card of the Perp Deck face down on 
the designated Sector.
3.	Place the top card of the Crime Pack face up on 
top of that Perp Card.
The First Player then deals 6 Action Cards face down 
to each player.
Game Turn
1. Movement 
All players move and may play Action Cards.
2. Arrest 
All players may play Action Cards and those that are 
able must attempt an Arrest.
3. End of Turn
The First Player passes the Turn Start Card to the 
player on the left. 
This new First Player replenishes the Crimes back to 
6, and issues players with new Action Cards.
Movement
Players may move their playing piece up to 2 adjacent 
Sectors in any direction. 
Sectors either side of a river are only adjacent if 
connected by a bridge. 
More than one Judge can occupy the same Sector.
When a Judge enters a Sector entering a Crime, the 
Perp Card is turned face up.
A player may not move out of a Sector in which there 
is a Crime unless there is another Judge in the Sector 
able to make an arrest, or he is Barneyed.
Arrest
The First Player attempts an Arrest first if able, then 
the next player left around the table, etc. A Judge 
may attempt only one Arrest each Arrest Round.
To make an arrest, the Judge’s total Combat Factor 
must be higher than that of the Perp being arrested. 
Action Cards may be played (before any die rolls) that 
give additional die rolls/additions/subtractions.
Combat Values:
Judge: 5 + 1d6
Perp: Card value + Crime value + 1d6
Any player in any order may play additional Action 
Cards on the Judge.
If the Perp’s total is higher than the Judge’s, the 
Arrest fails and the Judge is placed in the Intensive 
Care Unit in the Justice Dept Hospital Sector.
If the totals are equal, there is a stand-off and the 
Judge must attempt to arrest the Perp again next 
Arrest Round unless the Perp is no longer there or the 
Judge is somehow able to leave the Sector.
If there are 2 or more Crimes in the Sector, the Judge 
may choose which one to try and arrest.
If there are 2 or more Judges in the Sector, the Perp’s 
total applies to all Judges. The Judge who beats the 
Perp by the highest margin wins—if there is a tie, the 
one who was there first wins.
Intensive Care Unit
Any Judge in Intensive Care is not in the Justice Dept 
Hospital Sector proper and cannot arrest Perps there. 
If starting his move there he can only move to the 
Hospital Sector that round. 
No Action Cards apart from a Robodoc may be played 
on a player in Intensive Care, though he may play 
Cards on others.
Action Cards
Action Cards may be played by any player, on any 
player (even himself) at any time during a Game Turn. 
A player may never hold more than 6 Action Cards.
Unless stated otherwise, only the Combat option takes 
effect if a card is played during the Arrest Round. 
If both apply, the person playing the card decides 
which. Cards played are then immediately discarded.
New Action Cards
Each player is issued with one new Action Card at the 
end of the turn, except as follows:
Players in the West 17 Test Lab, City Hall, Academy 
of Law or Justice Department Armoury receive up 
to two cards. A player in the Grand Hall of Justice 
Sector may receive up to six cards.
Winning
When the last Perp in the Perp Pack is used, the 
game ends after one complete round of Game Turns—
as soon as the Turn Start Card would be passed to the 
player who had it when the last Perp card was used.
Each player totals the Combat values of their Arrests 
(Perps and Crimes); the highest total wins. 
If a tie, the Judges conduct an Arrest attempt in the 
Academy of Law , fighting each other. The victor wins 
the game.