You’re invited to a party in the jungle! Tonight, the whole jungle gang 
is planning to plunge into the river. Can you remember where they are all 
hiding as they float down the river? Your adventure begins at the campfire 
and leads you over a wobbly bridge, past glowing fireflies, across a mossy 
log, and next to the edge of a thunderous waterfall. The first player to reach 
the Toad King wins the adventure. 
	
In this wildly fun adventure, you have to remember which animals are 
swimming in the river and which ones are hiding under the bridges. Whoever 
slides the right animal tile into the correct river channel will be a step ahead 
of the others on the expedition to reach the Toad King!
For 2–4 Players
Ages 5 and up
30 Animal 
Tiles
5 Friend Disks
4 Player Figures
4 Player Markers
1 Die with Stickers
Jungle Game Board
Campfire
River Game 
Board
 S
lid
ey 
Mem
ory
 Ga
me
The 
Slip
per
y
1 of the 4 River Channels
8 Open Water 
Sections
Toad King

Goal of the Game
Beginning at the campfire, you will move your player figures along the path 
through the jungle. The path will lead you over the river three times in all: 
first, you step across the suspension bridge, then walk over the log bridge, 
and finally tip-toe across the waterfall stones. The first player to reach the 
Toad King wins the game!
When Playing for the First Time
Carefully remove all of the animal tiles and friend disks from the die-cut 
cardboard sheets and dispose of the two middle strips of the jungle game 
board that are marked with the white garbage can: 
Apply one of the stickers to each side of the die. 
Make sure that the river game board is lying flat in the blue plastic box 
insert. If not, gently push it down again.
Game Setup
Remove all of the contents from the game box except for the river game 
board and the blue plastic box insert. Put the jungle game board into the 
box insert so that the Toad King is positioned above the crown embossed in 
the box insert. Now put the game box in the middle of the table. Each player 
receives a player figure and a player marker of the same color. Then, each 
player selects one of the five friend disks. Now put your player figure onto 
one of the four starting spots around the campfire. Put your player marker 
and friend disk in front of you on the table. Shuffle the 30 
animal tiles and put them into two piles next to the game 
box with the green leafy sides facing up. 
Draw eight tiles from either pile, face down. From 
these eight tiles, lay two 
tiles in front of each river 
channel at the side of the 
suspension bridge. Then 
turn over all eight tiles so 
that everyone can see them. 
One after the other, slide each tile 
into its respective river channel with the animal 
side facing up so that four tiles are completely 
underneath the suspension bridge and four tiles are 
showing in the first section of open water.

Beginner version: Play without the friend disks. Leave them in 
the game box.
Let the Game Begin
The game is played in a clockwise direction. The youngest player goes first. 
On your turn, carry out the following 3 actions, in order:
1. Roll the die
2. Slide the animal tile
3. Count the animals and move your 
player figure
1. Roll the die
Roll the die once. Then the following happens:
• If the die shows a monkey, anteater, elephant, toucan, or tiger, you 
have to find that animal in the eight open water sections. (However, it is 
possible that the animal will not be seen at all in the river.) Proceed to 
actions 2 and 3.
• If the die shows the snake, move the leading player figure back one 
space. If more than one player figure is on the leading space, move all 
of the figures on the leading space back one space. Then roll the die 
again. If the snake is rolled again, move the leading player figure(s) 
back another space. Then, the next player takes his or her turn.
Important! The snake is in play only from the 
seventh space onwards. This space is marked with 
the snake. The player figures are never moved 
further back than to this space. If no player figure 
has reached the seventh space yet, the snake has 
no effect and the player rolls the die again.
2. Slide the animal tile
Take the top tile from one of the two piles. 
• Turn it over and slide the animal into one 
of the four river channels under the 

suspension bridge so that the tile is completely covered by the bridge. By 
sliding the animal tile under the bridge, another animal tile will be pushed 
out from under it and appear in the first open water section, and during the 
course of the game, a tile may be pushed out from under the log 
bridge and appear in the second open water section downstream. 
3. Count the animals and move your player figure
Count how many times the animal on the die appears on tiles 
showing in the eight open water sections.
• Move your player figure the corresponding number of spaces
forward. If the animal does not appear on any of the eight water sections,
unfortunately you cannot move your player figure forward.
Note: The animal doesn’t have to appear in the same river that you have 
selected. All eight water sections are always evaluated! 
Example: The red player rolled the tiger. He turns over a 
monkey tile and slides it into one of the four rivers until 
the monkey is completely under the suspension 
bridge. Now a total of two tigers appear among the 
eight water sections. The player moves his player 
figure two spaces ahead. 
• If an animal tile is pushed out at the waterfall
side, then turn it over so that the animal is face
down and put it at the bottom of one of the two
piles of tiles.
• Then, it’s the next player’s turn.
Friend Disks
Each player has a friend disk showing his best friend. Your best friend can help you 
advance more quickly. 
During Action 3 on your turn, if your player figure happens to be on a space 
directly next to a tile showing your best friend animal in the river, you get to 
move your player figure one extra space forward.
Important: The best friend rule applies both at the beginning and at the end 
of moving your player figure, but only at these times.

Your player figure must be on the suspension bridge, log bridge, or on the stones 
of the waterfall. Your best friend can’t help you on the six stones spots in the 
jungle. If your player figure is on the log bridge and your best friends are next to 
you on both sides, you get to move your player figure two extra spaces ahead.
Example 1: Anna’s best friend is the tiger. She rolls a monkey, turns over an 
elephant tile, and slides it under the suspension bridge. A total 
of two monkeys now appear in the eight open water 
sections. Anna’s player figure is at the beginning of the 
waterfall directly next to a tiger. She therefore 
immediately moves her player figure one space. Then 
she moves her player figure another two spaces 
forward on account of the two monkeys that appear 
on the water sections. Anna’s player figure is now on 
the last waterfall stone and once again next to a 
tiger. She gets to move her player figure one more 
space forward. She is the first to arrive at the Toad King 
and wins the game!
Example 2: Ben’s best friend is the monkey. He rolls a toucan, 
turns over a tiger tile, and slides it under the suspension 
bridge. A total of three toucans now appear among the eight 
water sections. Ben’s player figure is at the beginning of the 
log bridge and two monkeys are directly next to it. He 
immediately moves his player figure two spaces forward. 
Next to the first space that Ben’s player figure passes 
is another monkey on one of the 
water sections. However, as Ben’s 
player figure only moves past 
this monkey, but does not stop 
next to it, it doesn’t count. Then 
Ben moves his player figure three 
spaces ahead on account of the three 
toucans discovered on the water sections.
End of Game
The game is over as soon as a player reaches the Toad King on 
the last space of the game board, winning the exciting race 
through the jungle!

Authors: Stefan Dorra and Manfred Reindl
Illustration: Andreas Besser
Graphic Design: Ligne, Katja Witt
3D Design: Andreas Resch
Editor: Vincent Gatzsch
Additional Art: Dan Freitas
English Edition Editing: Camille Duhamel, 
Ted McGuire
© 2016 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany. Phone: +49 711 2191-0; Web: kosmos.de
© 2017 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC. All rights 
reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872; Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK, LP. Goudhurst, Kent TN17 2QZ 
Phone: 01580 212000; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
 WARNING:
CHOKING HAZARD — Small 
parts. Not for children under 3 yrs.
Looking for more great games?
For 2–4 Players 
Ages 6 and up 
thamesandkosmos.com
Slide the Monsters 
through the Maze 
and into the 
Monster Trap!