The Jungle Game aka Animal Chess and Dou Shou Qi 
Text from: Board and Table Games from Many Civilisations by R.C. Bell. 
No information is yet available about the history of this curious game. It may be a 
development of Chinese chess comparable to Draughts in Europe. 
The board is shown below. The pieces of one side are blue, and the other red. Each 
player has eight animals. In the list below the numbers represent their respective 
strengths. 
Piece 
 
Power 
Elephant 
Lion 
 
Tiger 
 
Panther 
 
Dog 
 
Wolf 
 
Cat 
 
Rat 
 
Trapped 
The blue squares in the middle of the board represent water. At the beginning of the game 
the pieces are placed on the appropriately marked squares. Blue moves ﬁrst. 

Rules 
1. Each turn consists of moving one piece one square orthogonally in any direction. Only 
one piece may occupy any square. 
2. An animal may eat any animal smaller than itself by moving on to its square. (The 
method of capture in chess.) The only exception to this rule is that the rat can kill the 
elephant since it can run into the elephant's ears and so gnaw into its brain. If similar 
animals meet, the animal moving on to a square eats the animal already there. 
3. Three pieces have special powers. 
(a) When the rat reaches the river it can enter it and move on the water squares as if it 
were on dry land. If it is in the river no other animal can attack it since they cannot move 
on to a water square. The rat, however, is unable to attack the elephant from a water 
square. If both rats meet in the river, the moving piece eats the stationary one. 
(b) When a lion or a tiger reaches a square on the edge of the river, at the next move it can 
jump over the water in any orthogonal direction, landing on the nearest land square. It 
destroys any smaller animal that may occupy that square: if, however, there is a rat in the 
river in the line of the jump, it blocks the way and the lion or tiger is prevented from 
leaping over the water. 
4. Each side has three trap-squares and the player's own pieces may move on and oﬀ 
them without restriction, but if an enemy animal piece occupies a trap-square, it loses all 
its power and becomes weaker than any defending piece. On entry or as soon as it 
moves out of the trap it regains its full strength. [sic] [Confusing considering that an 
enemy animal piece loses its power when landing on a trap.] Animals of either side may 
enter and leave traps at will. 
5- A player may not move any of his animals on to his own den. 
6. When any animal enters the enemy's den the game is won. 
Next page: printable game board. 

Printable counter. Stick to card and cut out.