The Game of Power, Intrigue, Money, and Revolution.
Content
Introduction 
Overview 
Game Materials 
Setup 
Choose the First Presidente 
The Political Game 
The Constitution of the Republic 4
The Division of Power 
El Presidente is Killed 
El Presidente Resigns 
Electoral Procedure 
Phases of the Political Game 5
Phase 3: Accept 
Development Aid 
Returning from Exile 
Phase 6: Assassination Attempts 6
Consequences of an 
Assassination 
Examples of Assassination 
Attempts 
El Presidente’s Cousin and the 
Ofﬁ ces of Dead or Exiled Players 7
Phase 8: Coup d’État! 
Phase 9: Coup Consequences 
Rules of the coup d’état 
Initial Deployments 
Coup Phases 
Overview of the Coup d’État 
Rebels & Loyalists 
Units of Dead or Exiled Players 
Transferring Units 
Paratroopers & Marines 
New Units 
Police Reaction 
The Battle During a Coup 
Declaration of Attacks 
Shelling by Gunboat & Air Raid 10
Exchanges of Gunﬁ re 
Dice & Battle Results 
Retreat 
Embassies 
“Coup d’état! Coup d’état!” 
End Game 
Example of a Coup d’État 
12-13
Game tips 
JUNTA for two players 
JUNTA for three players 
Additional Rules 
Introduction
Welcome to the beautiful island nation of La República 
de las Bananas, or as we’ll call it, Banana Republic, 
where the peaceful nighttime chirping of crickets is 
only interrupted by periodic exchanges of gunﬁ re. 
The island’s farmers are poor, its intellectuals oppressed, 
and there’s barely a middle class. The damp, humid air 
is ﬁ lled with mosquitos, and it stinks of revolution and 
coups d’état.
The government is subsidized by one of the global 
superpowers, which doesn’t ask any questions. 
A clique of super-rich families rules here—though 
only to line their pockets and ﬁ ll their Swiss bank 
accounts from copious ﬂ ows of development aid. 
Power, intrigue, money, and revolution are simply 
their means to this goal.
Each player controls one of these families.
Overview
JUNTA is normally intended for four to seven players. 
However, we have included additional rules for games 
of two or three players. A full complement of seven 
players is ideal.
The game consists of two parts. The ﬁ rst is a political-
satirical card game in which the players attempt to 
inﬂ uence the course of events in their favor with the 
help of elections, assassinations, and unforeseen events.
The second component of the game comes into play 
when a coup d’état is proclaimed. Then JUNTA becomes 
a strategic board game in which markers are moved 
around, representing the chaotic battles during the 
coup. After the coup is resolved, JUNTA becomes a card 
game again...until the next coup.
When El Presidente can no longer draw sufﬁ cient funds 
from the deck of Development Aid, the game ends. The 
winner is the player with the most money in his Swiss 
bank account at that point.

Geheime 
Parteispende
Ziehe den obersten Schein vom 
Geldstapel und lege ihn zu deinem 
Bargeld.
Bestechung
Erste 
Armeebrigade
• Darf während einer beliebigen 
Putsch bewegungs phase auf ein 
Viertel gespielt werden.
• Dort kannst du versuchen, für je 1 
Million Pesos Einheiten der Ersten 
Armeebrigade zu bestechen. Würﬂ e: 
Bei einer 3-6 gelingt das jeweils, 
und du bekommst die Kontrolle 
über die Einheit.
Attentäter
Amateur-
Attenta..äter
• Darf nur während der Attentäter-
Phase gespielt werden. 
• Kostet 1 Million Pesos.
• Wenn du den Aufenthaltsort des 
Opfers richtig erraten hast, würﬂ e 
mit einem Würfel. Nur 
bei einer 4, 5 
oder 6 ge-
lingt das 
Attentat.
Einﬂ usskarte
Christ-
demokraten
10 Stimmen, wenn auch 
die Einﬂ usskarte Die 
Kirche vor dir liegt. 
Die Stimmen dürfen 
nicht aufgeteilt 
werden.
Stimmkarte
Die 
Mittelschicht
Die Stimmen dürfen nicht aufgeteilt 
werden. Nur einmal verwendbar. 
Ereignis
Misstrauensvotum
Darf nur in der Ämtervergabephase 
gespielt werden. Es ﬁ ndet sofort eine 
Abstimmung statt. Wenn zwei Drittel 
der Stimmen gegen den aktuellen 
 Präsidenten sind, gibt es eine 
Neuwahl 
 – ansonsten bleibt der alte
 Präsident einstweilen im 
Amt.
 Assassins enable an 
assassination attempt in 
Phase 6.
 Bribes enable the 
control of Units or hinder an 
assassination. In order to play 
these cards, one needs cash 
in hand. Money spent on 
Bribes is placed face-up at the 
bottom of the Development Aid deck on 
the game board.
 Events often allow something to 
 happen that’s not otherwise 
allowed under the rules.
 Influence cards give one’s 
faction votes for elections. Some 
of them also help the family in 
conducting assassinations or bribes. 
Once played, an inﬂ uence card 
remains in play until the jefe of the 
family is killed or a circumstance 
explicitly requires the player to discard it. Each 
counts as one card in the player’s hand, and 
they cannot be exchanged.
 Secret Party Donation cards are 
discarded in exchange for the top 
bill in the Development Aid deck.
 Votes can be played during an 
election. After the conclusion of 
the election, they are discarded.
Players may exchange cards in their hands with each 
other, except during the Assassination Attempts 
and Coup Consequences phases. If a player is the 
target of an assassination attempt or is facing a 
ﬁ ring squad, he may not play any cards unless the 
card in question explicitly permits it. All cards are only 
used once and then discarded—with the exception 
of Inﬂ uence cards and any other cards which state 
otherwise.
When a player places a card face-up in front of him, 
it counts as having been played. If the requirements 
of the card can’t be met at that moment, then it’s 
discarded without effect.
Development Aid
The deck of Development Aid consists of 96 
banknotes of 1, 2, and 3 million Pesos, which are 
placed on the space marked on the game board.
In general, only the current Presidente may draw 
from this deck. Otherwise, some Politics cards do 
allow access to the funds. no one is ever allowed to 
count the number of notes remaining in this deck.
Players keep their own banknotes face-down in front of 
them. No other player may count or look at them. They 
can be discarded or given away or made part of a deal 
between players—except when the possessor is 
the target of an assassination attempt or in front 
of a ﬁ ring squad.
Game Materials
The Board
The map of the island is 
only required during 
a Coup d’État. The 
neighborhoods, army 
bases, police precincts, 
embassies, and the 
ﬁ ve Important Power 
Centers are clearly 
demarcated locations.
At the top of the board 
is a row of squares listing 
the phases of the political 
(card) game, indicating 
which phase is currently in 
play.
The Deck of Politics Cards
Radio Transmitter Train Station
Political Phases
Presidential Palace
Parliament
Central Bank
Cards
Banknotes

 
Pra..äsident
• Kontrolliert die Palastgarde.
• Zieht die Entwicklungshilfegelder ein.
• Vergibt die Ämter.
• Schlägt einen 
Haushalt vor.
Swiss Bank Account
The banknotes that the player has deposited in his 
Swiss bank account (see Phase 7: Banking) are placed 
face-down under the Swiss Bank Account card. Only the 
player himself may count them—the other players may 
only estimate their number by sight.
The Development Aid deck and one’s Swiss Bank 
Account may never be used to make change. Excess 
money spent is lost. Money played is always placed face 
up at the bottom of the Development Aid deck.
Setup
Players pick which 
family they wish to play, 
represented by the coats of 
arms bearing a sports car, 
sunglasses, a martini glass, 
quill pens, a pocket watch, 
or cigars, and take:
- The ﬁ ve location cards 
with the appropriate coat 
of arms on the back
- Three control markers with 
coat of arms
- One Swiss Bank Account card
Next, the yellow game markers 
are placed around the game 
board. The marker Political 
Phase is placed on the ﬁ rst 
space of the row of Political 
Phases at the top of the board, 
and the marker Coup Phase on the ﬁ rst space of 
the row of Coup Phases. The No Pretext marker is 
placed on the Coup Pretext? space. The Bank 
Shootout marker is placed on the Bank Secure 
space, and the Bank is Open marker is placed 
on the Bank Open? space. The markers Coup 
Pretext, Siesta, and Bank Holiday are only required later 
in the game.
The banknotes are shufﬂ ed and put face-down on 
the appropriate space on the board. This is the pile of 
Development Aid for the coming year.
The Politics cards are shufﬂ ed. Each player takes ﬁ ve, not 
showing them. The rest are placed face-down on the 
corresponding space on the board.
The markers for units are distributed as follows:
Each of the three army brigades’ six units are 
placed in their bases on the board;
One Police marker is placed in each of the 
four police precincts;
The four Palace Guard markers are placed 
in Presidential Palace;
The three Air Raid markers and the 
Paratroopers piece are placed in the marked 
spaces next to the city map;
The Marines marker is placed on the space at 
bottom right in the harbor;
And the Gunboat is placed on the 
Harbor space.
Choose the First Presidente
A Presidente is elected at the beginning of 
the game, as well as every time a Presidente 
dies, resigns, or is deposed. The Parliament 
(i.e., all the players) elects El Presidente.
At the beginning of the game, the owner 
of the game may nominate one or more 
candidates for Presidente—including himself. 
After that, the right of nomination passes in 
a clockwise direction.
Every nomination must be followed by at 
least one vote, in which the players use 
their Inﬂ uence and Vote cards. Each player may vote or 
abstain. It is also possible to give the votes represented 
by different cards to different candidates. However, the 
votes of any one Inﬂ uence or Vote card may be given to 
one and only one candidate and may not be split.
All the votes for the nominated candidates are assigned. 
Anyone may decline to stand as a candidate for the 
ofﬁ ce of Presidente; votes assigned to this player are 
lost.
Thereafter, like any good parliament, discussions and 
deals ensue.
Finally, there is a second round of votes, in which the 
players may add further votes to those already played 
through unused Inﬂ uence and Vote cards.
Who ever can collect the most votes in the two rounds 
of voting becomes the new Presidente and receives the 
Presidente card.
In the case of a tie, all players discard 
all of their Politics cards, and everyone 
receives ﬁ ve new cards. The owner of 
the game receives the top banknote 
from the Development Aid deck, and a 
new round of voting ensues. This goes 
on until the ﬁ rst Presidente is elected, 
or the game ends for lack of further 
banknotes.
For technical reasons, this game is subject to 
more counters than is really necessary!

The Political Game
The Constitution of the Republic
The island is ruled by the parliament and El Presidente. 
El Presidente is elected for life, determines the members 
of his cabinet anew in every round, and receives the 
Development Aid and distributes it. El Presidente may 
lose his ofﬁ ce only through his death, resignation, a 
coup d’état, or being voted out with the Vote of No-
Conﬁ dence card. The parliament is controlled by the 
leading families of the island (the rest of the players), 
who can use particular cards to aggrandize their power 
in parliament.
The Division of Power
El Presidente
- Controls the Palace Guard;
- Receives the Development 
Aid funds
- Proposes a budget
In addition, he assigns the six other 
government ofﬁ ces of the junta:
Ministro of Internal Security
- Controls the Police
- Can occupy the Parliament with the Police in order to 
force through a defeated budget
- Can conduct an assassination every Assassination 
Attempts phase
- Can have those returning from exile shot.
General of the First Army Brigade
- Controls the First Army Brigade
General of the Second Army Brigade
- Controls the Second Army Brigade
General of the Third Army Brigade
- Controls the Third Army Brigade
Almirante of the Navy
- Controls the Marines and conducts bombardments 
with the Gunboat
- Comandante of the Air Force
- Controls the Paratroopers and 
conducts Air Raids
El Presidente is Killed
If a Presidente is killed during the Assassination phase, 
the players immediately elect a new Presidente. This 
proceeds exactly like the ﬁ rst presidential election, 
with the following exceptions: Everyone can cast the 
additional vote of his Ofﬁ ce(s). Each Ofﬁ ce has one vote. 
One player, in a 4–7-player game, can hold at most two 
Ofﬁ ces, and thus gets at most two votes. Players who 
are dead at the moment may not vote. The player to the 
dead president’s left begins the voting.
In the case of a tie, all Vote cards are discarded, and the 
voting begins again. This goes on until there is a new 
The ofﬁ ces held by the former Presidente are taken over 
by his cousin (see El Presidente’s Cousin and the Ofﬁ ces 
of Dead or Exiled Players); this means they do nothing 
until the next Ofﬁ ce Assignment phase.
El Presidente Resigns
A Presidente may resign his ofﬁ ce at 
any time, other than during a Coup d’État. A new 
presidential election immediately ensues.
It proceeds exactly like the ﬁ rst presidential 
election, with the following exceptions: 
Everyone can cast the additional vote of his Ofﬁ ce(s). 
Each Ofﬁ ce has one vote. One player, in a 4–7-player 
game, can hold at most two Ofﬁ ces, and thus gets at 
most two votes. Players who are dead at the moment 
may not vote. The outgoing Presidente may use his 
Presidential Vote, begins the voting, and may be re-
elected.
In the case of a tie, all Vote cards are discarded, and the 
voting begins again. This goes on until there is a new 
The former Presidente gives all of his cash to the new 
The former Presidente receives 
all the ofﬁ ces of the new 
Electoral Procedure
A vote for some other 
reason (e.g., on adoption 
of the budget) functions 
exactly like the ﬁ rst 
presidential election, with the 
following exceptions: Everyone 
may additionally cast the vote 
of his ofﬁ ce(s). There 
are two rounds of 
elections in which El Presidente begins 
the voting. In the case of a tie, El Presidente 
decides which side wins.

 
Minister fu..är 
Innere Sicherheit
• Kontrolliert die Polizei. 
• Darf das Parlament 
mit der Polizei 
besetzen, um einen 
abgelehnten Haus-
halt durchzusetzen.
• Darf mit seiner 
Geheimpolizei 
ein Attentat 
während der 
Attentatsphase 
durchführen.
• Darf Rückkehrer aus 
dem Exil erschießen.
Phases of the Political Game
Each turn has the following phases:
1. Each player draws two Politics cards. The markers on 
the two rows of Phases are reset.
2. El Presidente assigns ofﬁ ces.
3. El Presidente draws eight banknotes from 
the Development Aid deck.
4. El Presidente proposes a budget, and the 
Parliament votes on its adoption.
5. Every player chooses a secret Location for 
this turn.
6. Assassination attempts are declared and 
resolved.
7. If the bank is open, money can be transferred 
or withdrawn.
8. A coup d’état can be proclaimed. Play 
switches to the Coup d’État rules (see p. 8).
9. A coup creates Coup Consequences.
At the beginning of a round, every player draws two 
Politics cards. If there are not enough in the deck, the 
cards previously discarded are collected, shufﬂ ed, and 
made into a new deck. Cards are drawn so that only 
the drawing player sees them. Each player can have at 
most six cards in his hand. Anyone with more must 
immediately play, discard, or give away the additional 
cards until he’s got the maximum six. Inﬂ uence cards 
that are in play count toward the six-card limit.
Players in exile draw no cards.
In this phase, all the markers on the board are replaced 
in their original positions: The No Pretext marker is put 
on the Coup Pretext space, the marker Bank Is Open on 
the Bank Open? space, the Political Phase on the ﬁ rst 
space of the Political Phases row, and the Coup Phase on 
the ﬁ rst space of the Coup Phases row.
If there has been a coup, all unit 
markers return to their initial 
positions.
In this phase, El Presidente 
distributes the other ofﬁ ces 
among the families by giving 
the appropriate players the 
corresponding card.
The following limitations apply:
- El Presidente may hold no other ofﬁ ce.
- Every family must receive at least one ofﬁ ce.
- Each family may hold at most two ofﬁ ces.
- No family may receive two Army Brigade generalships.
El Presidente can hold to agreements made in advance, 
but he is not obliged to. He can assign some or all ofﬁ ces 
exactly as they were in the previous round. Ofﬁ ces may 
only be reassigned in this phase of the game (with the 
exception of the ofﬁ ce of El Presidente), even if a new 
Presidente has come to power in the interim.
Example: In a game with four players, everyone except 
El Presidente receives two Ofﬁ ces—one as a general and 
exactly one further Ofﬁ ce.
Phase 3: Accept Development Aid
El Presidente draws eight banknotes face-
down from the Development Aid deck. He may 
not show them to any other player.
After El Presidente has taken the 
Development Aid, he must recommend a 
budget to the Parliament. He declares how 
he intends to distribute the Development 
Aid among the players. He is not required 
to tell the truth with regard to the total 
amount he has to distribute. He may distribute 
less money than he has drawn, or indeed not distribute 
any, keeping the entire amount for himself. He may 
also promise more money than he has drawn, if he 
has enough pesos in cash to cover the difference. El 
Presidente may not propose a budget that which 
requires the players to make change for the banknotes 
they receive. He may make change for banknotes using 
his own cash.
Example: If El Presidente has drawn eight three-million-
peso notes, he can propose giving the Ministro of Internal 
Security 15 million, and the General of the First Army 
Brigade another 6 million. He keeps 3 million for himself. 
He may only propose giving the Almirante of the Navy 
one million, as he only has a single 1,000,000-peso note 
in his cash reserve.
As soon as the budget is proposed, Parliament—i.e., 
the players—votes on it. If the budget is adopted, El 
Presidente distributes the moneys. El Presidente may 
distributed more than his budget proposes—but no 
less.
If the players reject the budget, the marker Coup Pretext 
replaces No Pretext for the rest of the turn.
The Ministro for Internal Security may force 
through a rejected budget by moving all the 
Police units to the Parliament space. El 
Presidente then distributes his budget as 
proposed. The bank then closes for an 
extended siesta; for the rest of the 
turn, the Siesta marker is placed on 
the Bank Open? space.
If the Ministro chooses not to 
use force, the bank closes for an 
extended holiday. The Bank Is Open 
marker is replaced by the Bank Holiday 
marker for the rest of the turn.
In addition, El Presidente retains all the Development 
Aid notes for himself.

All players then choose a location where they may 
be found for the duration of the turn. Five different 
locations are available: Bank, Headquarters, Home, 
With the Mistress, and Nightclub. All players have cards 
representing these locations, and they place the chosen 
location face-down in front of them. The other four 
cards are set aside, also face-down.
The player’s whereabouts have nothing to do with 
events on the map. It is determined solely by the chosen 
card.
Instead of choosing a location, a player may choose to 
go into Exile. He then places one of his Location cards 
face up on the space of whatever Embassy he likes (see 
Exile).
Tip: Anyone who wants to put money into his Swiss 
Bank Accout must choose Bank as his location. A player 
who wants to start a coup should choose Headquarters, 
provided there’s already a Coup Pretext or he has an 
appropriate Politics card.
In the Choose Location phase, a player may go into 
Exile by choosing to place a Location card face-up on 
an Embassy of his choosing. If El Presidente wishes 
to go into Exile, he must ﬁ rst resign his ofﬁ ce, so 
that new elections take place.
With the exception of El Presidente, any 
player can go into Exile during a Coup, if he 
controls at least one unit in an Embassy.
A player in Exile is outside the real game. He can’t 
be assassinated or hauled before a ﬁ ring squad, 
he can’t make Swiss Bank Account deposits or 
withdrawals, and he can neither draw nor play 
Politics cards. He can, however, discard Politics 
cards or swap them with other players. He may not 
vote in Parliament, he may not commission any 
assassinations, and during a Coup, his units do not 
move. El Presidente’s Cousin (i.e., the player who’s 
Presidente) takes (at most) one ofﬁ ce from a player 
in Exile.
Returning from Exile
A player in Exile may return at any time to the Banana 
Republic. The Ministro for Internal Security may 
opt to have the returning exile assassinated 
immediately and with automatic success. The 
Ministro may choose not to conduct an assassination. 
Politics cards that thwart assassination attempts can be 
used here.
In the following cases, nothing happens to the returning 
player:
- The old Presidente is dead (and no new Presidente 
has been elected), or the ofﬁ ce of Ministro for Internal 
Security isn’t held by a player.
- During a Coup, a player who has at least one unit in 
the appropriate Embassy may offer the exile a safe-
conduct. The returning player immediately assumes his 
former Ofﬁ ces and the associated Units.
A player in Exile can win the game, if the game ends and 
he has the most money in his Swiss Bank Account.
Phase 6: Assassination Attempts
First, the Ministro of Internal Security announces his 
assassination attempts, and the rest of the players 
follow in a clockwise order, so that everyone has the 
opportunity to proclaim an assassination attempt.
The Ministro controls the Secret Police and therefore 
receives a free assassination attempt every round. Other 
attempts (including additional attempts by the 
Ministro) are only allowed with the appropriate 
Politics cards.
An assassination attempt is announced by the 
player’s naming the nature of the assassination 
attempt (in general, by playing the appropriate 
card) and the potential victim, guessing 
his Location. Location cards are revealed 
once all assassination attempts have been 
declared.
Each player may make as many attempts 
as he has Assassins. He may direct 
multiple attempts at a single player, 
or attempt to assassinate a number of 
different players. He can direct multiple 
attempts at one or several Locations.
Assassination attempts are resolved in 
the order in which they were declared. 
The assassination attempts of players 
who are killed before they are carried 
out are still carried out.
The Secret Police (controlled by 
the Ministro of Internal Security) 
may attempt an assassination in the Bank 
at most every other turn. The Bank Shootout 
marker is replaced by Bank Is Secure until the 
end of the Assassination Attempts phase of 
the following turn. While the Bank Is Secure 
marker is in play, the Secret Police may not 
conduct an assassination in the Bank, even if a 
new player has become Ministro of Internal Security in 
the meantime. Other attempts are not affected by this.

Consequences of an Assassination
An assassinated player immediately discards his hand of 
cards (including Inﬂ uence in play face-up) and gives all 
his cash to the architect of the successful assassination. 
If a player is killed by the assassins of a player who’s 
already been killed, his money goes face-up under the 
Development Aid deck.
The murdered player remains dead until the end of 
the current turn. He can’t take any actions until the 
beginning of the next turn, when his family names a 
new jefe.
If El Presidente is killed, new elections take place as soon 
as all the assassination attempts have been resolved.
If any player is assassinated, this counts as a Pretext for 
a Coup. (The Coup Pretext marker is put down.)
Swiss Bank Accounts are never inﬂ uenced by the death 
of a player.
Hint: Because all bank transactions are resolved right 
after this phase, it’s always a risk to be in the Bank!
Examples of Assassination Attempts
Andy, Bill, and Daniel declare attempts in this 
order.
- Andy and Daniel both declare attempts on Bill in 
the same place. Because Bill is actually there, he 
is dead and his cash goes to Andy who declared 
his attempt ﬁ rst.
- Andy declares an attempt on Bill, and vice 
versa. Both succeed. Both players are therefore 
dead, and put their cash in hand under the 
Development Aid deck.
- Andy kills Bill, and Bill kills Daniel. Bill’s money 
goes to Andy, and Daniel puts his money face-up 
under the Development Aid deck.
- Andy kills Bill, and Daniel kills Andy. Bill’s money 
goes to Andy, and then goes to Daniel, along 
with all of Andy’s money.
El Presidente’s Cousin and the Offices of Dead or 
Exiled Players
If anyone is killed in the Assassination phase or is in 
Exile, El Presidente’s Cousin (i.e., the player who is 
currently Presidente) may take over at most one of his 
Ofﬁ ces. El Presidente then exercises the vote of that 
Ofﬁ ce and controls the Units which belong to it. An 
Ofﬁ ce may only pass from El Presidente’s Cousin in the 
Ofﬁ ce Assignment phase.
If there are several unoccupied Ofﬁ ces, El Presidente 
may ﬁ ll one (and only one) of them with his Cousin. 
Other unoccupied Ofﬁ ces do not surrender their votes 
and their Units remain strictly passive in any possible 
Coup. If the Ministro of Internal Security is dead or in 
Exile, his special abilities may not be used in any case.
In this phase, any players who have chosen the Bank 
as their Location and who are not dead, may deposit or 
withdraw money if the Bank is open.
The Bank is not open if, earlier in the same turn, a 
budget has been rejected or a Politics card dictates it.
If the Bank is closed for a Siesta because of the Police’s 
forcing through a budget, bank transactions can be 
conducted again:
- at the end of a round after a Coup, or
- if all players decide not to instigate a Coup.
If the Bank Holiday marker is in play, no bank 
transactions of any sort may be conducted that turn.
The players deposit money in their Swiss Bank Accounts 
by putting banknotes from their cash in hand under 
their Swiss Bank Account card. They withdraw money 
by taking money from there and putting back it in their 
cash.
Money in a Swiss Bank Account may only remain in the 
account or be withdrawn. In particular, it may not be 
used for Bribes, Assassinations, or deals between players 
without its having been withdrawn in advance.
Tip: Money in a Swiss Bank Account is very safe. 
Ultimately, you can only win the game with the money in 
your Swiss Bank Account. You should only withdraw it for 
a very good reason, but it is allowed.
Phase 8: Coup d’État!
At the beginning of every turn, the No Pretext marker 
is placed on the Coup Pretext? space. During the turn, it 
can be replaced by the Coup Pretext marker if:
- El Presidente’s budget is rejected
- the Ministro of Internal Security occupies Parliament 
with the Police
- someone is assassinated, or
- a Politics card with a coup pretext is played.
When the Coup Pretext marker is in play, any player, 
with the exception of El Presidente, may instigate a 
Coup.
s his hand of 
nd gives all
sassination.
er who’s
under the
end of 
ntil the 
names a 
lace as soon 
resolved.
Pretext for
wn.)
y the death
lved right
e Bank!
this
on Bill in 
here, he 
declared 
ce
erefore 
the 
money 
y face-up
s money
long
Dead or 
r i i
In this phase, any players who have chosen the Ba
as their Location and who are not dead, may depo
withdraw money if the Bank is open.
The Bank is not open if, earlier in the same turn, a
budget has been rejected or a Politics card dictate
If the Bank is closed for a Siesta because of the Po
forcing through a budget, bank transactions can 
conducted again:
- at the end of a round after a Coup, or
- if all players decide not to instigate a Coup.
If the Bank Holiday marker is in play, no bank
transactions of any sort may be conducted that t
The players deposit money in their Swiss Bank Ac
by putting banknotes from their cash in hand un
their Swiss Bank Account card. They withdraw mo
by taking money from there and putting back it i
cash.
Money in a Swiss Bank Account may only remain
account or be withdrawn. In particular, it may not
used for Bribes, Assassinations, or deals between 
without its having been withdrawn in advance.
Tip: Money in a Swiss Bank Account is very safe. 
Ultimately, you can only win the game with the m
your Swiss Bank Account. You should only withdra
a very good reason, but it is allowed.

Anyone who has chosen Headquarters as his Location 
may instigate a Coup without a pretext.
A Coup may be started by:
- a Politics card that brings new Units into play 
(Students, Agitators, Demonstrators, Strikers, Bank 
Guards, Private Security Force, Christian Militia, or the 
Helicopter)
- a player’s moving the Units of his Ofﬁ ce (thereby 
becoming the ﬁ rst move in the Rebellion phase)
- the announcement by the Almirante of the Navy or 
the Comandante of the Air Force that they are ﬁ ring 
on Presidential Palace with the Gun Boat or an Air Raid 
(these shots are resolved later in the Shooting phase).
If multiple players want to instigate a Coup 
simultaneously, the player closest to El Presidente in a 
clockwise direction starts the Coup.
Whoever starts the Coup receives the Rebel Leader card.
As soon as the Coup starts, the Political Game is put 
aside, and the game continues as under Rules of the 
Coup d’État, below.
Phase 9: Coup Consequences
If there is a Coup attempt and El 
Presidente’s side emerges victorious, 
El Presidente may sentence any of 
the Rebels who are not in Exile to a 
ﬁ ring squad.
If the Rebels have won the day, 
the Rebel players immediately set 
up a junta to determine the new 
Presidente. Players loyal to the 
old regime who voted for the 
Rebels (see box) do not belong 
to this junta. Every member of 
the junta has exactly one vote. 
Votes from Ofﬁ ces, Vote cards, 
and Inﬂ uence cards do not 
apply here. If there is a tie, the 
Rebel Leader decides which 
of the candidates with the 
most votes becomes the new 
The new Presidente may sentence one 
player not in exile (including another member of the 
junta) to the ﬁ ring squad.
The player who is shot surrenders his cash to El 
If the Bank is having a Siesta, it is now reopened, and 
players whose Location is the Bank may conduct their 
bank transactions.
The turn is now over. All dead players are now 
considered alive again—they’ve been replaced by a new 
jefe in their family.
If the Rebels win, there are:
- El Presidente
- players loyal to the regime (i.e., to El Presidente) 
who chose El Presidente’s side (see Choosing 
Sides)
- Rebels who voted for El Presidente
- Rebels who voted for the Rebels
Rules of the coup d’'e-tat
If there is insufﬁ cient consensus reached through 
democratic processes, Plan B comes into play: Take to the 
streets and express your dissatisfaction with ﬁ repower! 
Nothing shows El Presidente your unhappiness with his 
policies like a bombardment of his Palace.
The Coup d’État is a sub-game within JUNTA, and here 
the Unit markers and city map come into play.
After the Coup, the Political Game—speciﬁ cally Phase 
9—resumes.
Initial Deployments
The military Units always start in the 
same spaces. The Police either start in 
the Police Precincts or all together in 
Parliament in the event the Ministro has 
forced the budget through.
Units destroyed in a Coup are available once 
again for the next Coup.
El 
rious,
y of 
to a
set 
w
nce one 
t
P
fo
fo
U
ag
 
Rebellen-
fu..ährer
Diese Karte geht an den Spieler, der in 
einem Spielzug den Putsch startet.

 
Minister fu..är 
Innere Sicherheit
• Kontrolliert die Polizei. 
• Darf das Parlament mit der 
Polizei besetzen, um 
einen abgelehnten 
Haushalt durchzu-
setzen.
• Darf mit seiner 
Geheimpolizei 
ein Attentat 
während der 
Attentatsphase 
durchführen.
• Darf Rückkehrer aus 
dem Exil erschießen.
Coup Phases
A Coup proceeds as follows:
- Rebellion Phase
- Coup Phase 1
- Coup Phase 2
- Coup Phase 3
- Coup Phase 4
- Coup Phase 5
- Coup Phase 6
Each phase is divided into two parts:
- Movement
- Battle
Battle is divided into:
- Declaration of attacks
- Shelling by Gunboat and Air Raid
- Three exchanges of ﬁ re
Overview of the Coup d’État
At the beginning of a coup, the Rebel Leader moves 
his Units ﬁ rst, then each player may move his Units, 
proceeding in a clockwise direction. Any player who 
moves his Unit or attacks with them in the Rebellion 
Phase is considered a Rebel. Consequently, El Presidente 
may neither move nor shoot back with his Units in the 
ﬁ rst round.
After the ﬁ rst (Rebellion) phase, there are six further, 
complete Coup phases.
Each Coup phase (including the ﬁ rst, Rebellion phase) 
is divided into Movement and Battle segments. In the 
Movement segment, each player moves his Units in the 
order described above. Suitable Politics cards may be 
played at this point as well. After all of the Units have 
been moved, Battle begins. In the Battle segment, no 
further cards may be played.
At the end of the sixth Coup phase, it’s decided 
whether the Rebels or the troops loyal to El 
Presidente have won. The side which holds 
more Important Power Centers 
wins.
At the end of each Coup phase, 
the Coup Phase marker is moved 
one space further. After the 
Coup, it’s placed back on the 
ﬁ rst space, and Phase 9 of the 
Political Game follows.
If, during a Coup, all of the players are agreed on the 
outcome of the Coup, the Coup d’État can be broken off 
and Phase 9 of the Political Game played immediately.
Rebels & Loyalists
A player can become a Rebel in 
one of two ways:
- If he moves his Units in the 
Rebellion phase or opens ﬁ re.
- If at any point in the Coup, he ﬁ res 
on the Palace Guard (regardless of 
who controls them).
A player who’s become a Rebel 
turns over his Ofﬁ ce cards so that 
the Revolution side is showing.
If a player wishes to remain loyal to the regime, he may 
not move or shoot back in the Rebellion phase.
Once a player is a Rebel, he remains a Rebel for the 
remainder of the Coup.
El Presidente can never be a rebel.
Units of Dead or Exiled Players
Because dead and exiled players may not control their 
Units, those Units are completely ignored during a Coup. 
They don’t move, don’t shoot, cannot be shot, and do 
not count towards the control of buildings.
Exceptions are those Units potentially controlled by El 
Presidente’s Cousin and the Units of players who return 
from Exile during the Coup.
In the Rebellion phase, the Rebel Leader moves his 
Units ﬁ rst. Then all the other Rebels move their Units, 
proceeding in a clockwise direction. (Those wanting to 
stay loyal to the regime have to sit this out!)
In the next Coup phase, the player to the left of the 
Rebel Leader moves his Units ﬁ rst, and the others follow 
in a clockwise direction. In each of the six Coup phases, 
there is, therefore, a new starting player—the one to the 
left of the preceding round’s starting player. Units loyal 
to the regime may move and ﬁ ght as well as Rebel Units 
in all six regular phases of the Coup.
During the Movement segment, any of a player’s 
Units in a single space may be moved into a 
adjacent space. Units may also be left behind in 
the old space.
A player may only move the Units in one 
space per Coup phase, regardless of how 
many stacks of units he controls.
Exceptions: If El Presidente’s Cousin is holding 
an Ofﬁ ce, El Presidente may make an additional 
movement with these Units during the turn of the 
player whose Ofﬁ ce El Presidente’s Cousin has taken.
The Helicopter (which only comes into play through a 
special Event card) may move up to two spaces per phase. 
It can thus move with a Unit into a space then continue 
on to a farther space itself, or it can move onto the space 
of one of its own units and travel together with it into a 
second space.
No player must move.
w of the Coup d’État
eginning of a coup, the Rebel Leader moves
s ﬁ rst, then each player may move his Units, 
ng in a clockwise direction. Any player who
is Unit or attacks with them in the Rebellion 
considered a Rebel. Consequently, El Presidente
ther move nor shoot back with his Units in the 
nd.
e ﬁ rst (Rebellion) phase, there are six further,
e Coup phases.
up phase (including the ﬁ rst, Rebellion phase) 
d into Movement and Battle segments. In the
ent segment, each player moves his Units in the
scribed above. Suitable Politics cards may be 
t this point as well. After all of the Units have
oved, Battle begins. In the Battle segment, no 
cards may be played.
nd of the sixth Coup phase, it’s decided
the Rebels or the troops loyal to El
te have won. The side which holds
portant Power Centers 
nd of each Coup phase,
p Phase marker is moved 
ce further. After the
s placed back on the
ce, and Phase 9 of the
Game follows.
g a Coup, all of the players are agreed on the 
e of the Coup, the Coup d’État can be broken off 
se 9 of the Political Game played immediately.
Presidente’s Cousin and the Units o
from Exile during the Coup.
In the Rebellion phase, the Rebel Le
Units ﬁ rst. Then all the other Rebe
proceeding in a clockwise direction
stay loyal to the regime have to sit
In the next Coup phase, the player 
Rebel Leader moves his Units ﬁ rst, 
in a clockwise direction. In each of 
there is, therefore, a new starting p
left of the preceding round’s starti
to the regime may move and ﬁ ght
in all six regular phases of the C
During the Movement segm
Units in a single space may 
adjacent space. Units may 
the old space.
A player may only move
space per Coup phase, r
many stacks of units he 
Exceptions: If El Presidente
an Ofﬁ ce, El Presidente may
movement with these Units 
player whose Ofﬁ ce El Presiden
The Helicopter (which only comes in
special Event card) may move up to
It can thus move with a Unit into a
on to a farther space itself, or it can
of one of its own units and travel to
second space.
o player must move.

Transferring Units
During the Movement segment, a player may transfer 
his Units at will to other players or exchange Units with 
them. This is indicated by placing the Control 
markers of the controlling family on the 
Unit(s) acquired. Such a change in control 
never means that the Unit may move twice 
in one turn. The control of Units can never 
be shared.
Paratroopers & Marines
The Comandante of the Air Force 
controls the Paratroopers Unit. During the 
Movement segment, the Comandante may 
place the Paratroopers on any space on the 
map he chooses. This does not count as a 
movement.
The Almirante of the Navy controls the Marines Unit. 
This Unit maybe be placed in any area bordering the 
Harbor (i.e., the Waterfront or the Puerto del Sur 
neighborhood) or on the First Army Brigade’s 
Base. This does not count as a movement.
Both Units may then move normally in the 
course of the Coup. A new landing is only 
possible in the next Coup.
New Units
New Units may come into play during Movement 
segments through the playing of Politics cards. The 
cards determine the number, kind, and starting 
location of the new Units. New Units may be moved 
immediately, if the player deploying them has not 
already used his movement.
Police Reaction
If a Rebel player brings a suitable Politics card of 
Agitators, Students, Strikers, or Demonstrators into play 
during the Rebellion phase, the Ministro for Internal 
Security may move some or all of his Police Units to 
some or all of the spaces with these new Units. This 
does not count as movement, and the distance 
between the Units is irrelevant. It is also irrelevant 
whether the Ministro is a Rebel or loyal to the regime.
The Ministro does not have the option to deploy Police 
against Units brought into play from the ﬁ rst regular 
Coup phase on.
The Battle During a Coup
A battle can take place in any space where Units of two 
or more players are located.
Battles are conducted space by space. Only when a 
battle in a particular space is decided do you move on to 
another.
As soon as all spaces where ﬁ ghting takes place have 
been declared, the Rebel Leader determines the order 
in which the battles take place. (If he is in Exile, El 
Presidente decides.)
Declaration of Attacks
Normally, it’s clear where battle will occur. El Presidente 
ﬁ rst declares in which spaces his Units will ﬁ ght, and 
declarations then proceed in clockwise fashion.
If no players with a Unit in a space declare an attack, no 
battle takes place in that space.
As soon as one of the players declares an attack in a 
space, all the other players on that space may decide 
whom they will shoot at, even if they’d previously 
decided against ﬁ ghting.
Shelling by Gunboat & Air Raid
The Gunboat, controlled by the Almirante 
of the Navy, and the Air Force, under the 
control of the Comandante of the Air Force may 
declare bombardments. They themselves may never 
be ﬁ red upon.
The Gunboat may ﬁ re once in each Coup phase. The 
Comandante can declare an Air Raid in three different 
Coup phases in a given Coup. After a successful Air 
Raid, an Air Raid marker is ﬂ ipped over.
Exchanges of Gunfire
The battle in a given ﬁ eld is broken down 
into three exchanges of gunﬁ re. During an 
exchange of gunﬁ re, each unit in the area may 
attack once. All attacks take place simultaneously.
Example: Andy’s Units kill some of Bill’s Units with an 
attack—Bill’s dead Units may shoot back once before 
they’re removed.
A player is not required to shoot back at a Unit attacking 
him. (In the Rebellion phase, a player who wants to 
remain loyal to the regime must refrain from shooting 
back.)
All the players involved in a battle in the same space 
may decide anew in each exchange of gunﬁ re how 
many and which of his Units will attack which player.
If there are two or more players with surviving Units 
after three exchanges of gunﬁ re, retreats may be in 
order (see Retreat).

111111
Dice & Battle Results
Each Unit marker has a number in parentheses after 
its name. This represents the number of attacks this 
Unit has. Those Units marked with a (1) are considered 
armed—roll one die for each such Unit.
Unarmed Units have a (1⁄2) by their names. Roll one die 
for every two of such Units under your control in a given 
space (rounding down).
The Palace Guard are marked with (1*)—you may roll 
one die for each of them unless they are in Presidential 
Palace, in which case you may roll two.
For the Gunboat, labelled (3), three dice are thrown, 
though only once per battle. An Air Raid (6) is conducted 
with six dice.
Every roll of 6 slays one opposing Unit of the opposing 
player’s choice in the space, which is then removed from 
the city map.
Retreat
The player or players which have lost the fewest Units 
in a given ﬁ eld do not withdraw and, if they are agreed, 
can prevent some or all of the other players from 
withdrawing. Otherwise, all the other players must 
withdraw their Units. They may move them into any free 
adjacent space or into a space with Units whose players 
all agree to permit it.
The order of turns of several retreats taking place 
simultaneously is determined by the order of turns in 
the particular phase.
Units which must retreat but cannot due to the lack of 
an available space are removed from the city map.
Embassies
No combat is allowed on Embassy spaces. As many 
players as care to may place Units on these spaces.
A player who has at least one Unit in an Embassy may 
go into Exile (see above, Exile and Returning from Exile).
Beginning with the Rebel Leader and proceeding 
clockwise, all players must decide by the end of the sixth 
Coup phase whether they are for El Presidente or the 
Rebels.
A player can decide for the Rebels even if he was 
previously loyal to the regime, and vice versa.
“Coup d’état! Coup d’état!”
The Rebels control a space if all the units on the space 
belong to players who have chosen to side with the 
Rebels, regardless of whether the players were loyal to 
the regime at one time.
If there is no Unit in a space, or at least one loyal Unit, 
the space is counted as controlled by El Presidente.
The side which controls three of the ﬁ ve Important 
Power Centers:
- Central Bank
- Parliament
- Presidential Palace
- Radio Transmitter
- Train Station
is the victor in the Coup.
As soon as one side emerges victorious, the Coup 
d’État is over, and the game returns to Phase 9, Coup 
Consequences, in the Political Game.
End Game
The game ends as soon as soon as El Presidente cannot 
withdraw eight face-down bank notes from in the 
Accept Development Aid phase.
The player with the most money in his Swiss Bank 
Account wins.
Cash in hand is irrelevant at this point—if two players 
have the same amount in their secret account, it’s 
a tie. A player can win JUNTA while in exile or even 
when dead. If all the players die simultaneously in 
assassinations, everyone loses.

Example of a Coup d’État
This example was chosen so that as many different 
possible situations arise. Coups are usually much 
simpler.
Initial Positions
This is the last Coup phase in a bitterly fought battle. 
There are four players: El Presidente (diamond markers), 
the Ministro of Internal Security & General of the First 
Army Brigade (pocketwatch, hereafter just Ministro), the 
Comandante of the Air Force & General of the Second 
Army Brigade (glasses, hereafter just Comandante), and 
the Almirante of the Navy & General of the Third Army 
Brigade (cigar, hereafter just Almirante).
Three Units of the Palace Guard are occupying the 
Presidential Palace. Three Units of Students loyal to El 
Presidente are in the University.
Two Units of Police are in the Villas. Six Units of the First 
Army Brigade hold the Train Station. The Helicopter is 
controlled by the player with the glasses marker and is 
in the Third Police Precinct. The Marketplace is occupied 
by four Units of the Second Army Brigade, four Strikers 
controlled by the player with the cigar marker, and three 
Units of the Third Army Brigade.
Movement Segment
The order of turns in this phase is: Ministro, 
Comandante, Almirante, and then El Presidente.
The Ministro moves both Police Units into the 
Presidential Palace.
The Comandante lands the as-yet-undeployed 
Paratroopers on the Radio Transmitter. He then moves 
the Helicopter to the Marketplace (neither of these 
counts as a movement). Finally, he moves the Helicopter 
another space, together with two Units of the Second 
Army Brigade, into the Parliament building. He transfers 
control of the remaining two Second Brigade Units in 
the Marketplace to the Almirante.
The Almirante moves all his units from the 
Marketplace—the units of the Second and Third Army 
Brigades and the Strikers—into the Presidential Palace.
El Presidente moves his Students into the Presidential 
Palace at the same time.
The situation at this point is depicted in the illustrations.
The Battle During the Coup
The sole battle takes place in Presidential Palace. The 
Comandante of the Air Force and the Almirante of the 
Navy declare both of their special attacks. These attacks 
occur ﬁ rst. Both decide to attack El Presidente.
The Comandante rolls his six dice, 3, 3, 3, 4, 5, 6 (one hit), 
and the Almirante his three, 1, 2, 3 (no hits). El Presidente 
decides to remove one Students marker.
Before the ﬁ rst exchange of gunﬁ re, El Presidente and 
the Ministro decide to attack the Units belonging to 
the Almirante, while the Almirante’s Units attack El 
Presidente’s.
The first exchange of gunfire:
The Ministro’s two Police Units roll a 2 and a 6, and the 
Almirante removes one of his Strikers.
El Presidente attacks with seven dice (three units of the 
Palace Guard in Presidential Palace @ 2 dice each, and 
two Units of Students with one combined die), rolling 2, 
2, 4, 4, 5, 5, 6. The Almirante decides to remove one more 
of his Strikers.
The Units of the Almirante attack El Presidente’s 
Units with six dice (ﬁ ve for the armed units of the 
Army Brigade, and one for the three unarmed Strikers 
units [3/2, rounded down = 1]), rolling 1, 2, 4, 5, 5, 6. El 
Before Movement Segment

Presidente decides to lose one Unit of Students—in the 
end, they’re his weakest Units.
The third Unit of Strikers may not roll, because only two 
complete unarmed Units get to roll a die. The two killed 
Strikers may still attack, because all attacks are resolved 
simultaneously.
The second exchange of gunfire:
The Palace Guard and the Police shoot at the Units of 
the Almirante, who decides to shoot at El Presidente’s 
Units again. The three Units of the Palace Guard roll 1, 
2, 3, 3, 3, 5, resulting in no hits. The two Police roll 5 and 
6, resulting in one hit. The Almirante gives up one more 
Strikers.
The Almirante rolls 1, 3, 4, 6, 6, hitting twice, and El 
Presidente loses his last Unit of Students and one of the 
Palace Guard. The sole Students Unit may not attack, 
because it was unarmed. El Presidente may not remove 
any Police because they are not his Units.
The third exchange of gunfire:
The three players choose the same targets as in the 
last two exchanges. The Almirante has 1, 2, 3, 5, and 5, 6 
rolled against him, so that, for example, one Unit of the 
Second Army Brigade is killed. The Almirante rolls 2, 3, 4, 
5, 6, and El Presidente loses another Unit of the Palace 
Guard.
Retreats
The Ministro has lost no Units, El Presidente and the 
Almirante have lost ﬁ ve and four Units respectively. 
The Ministro decides that the Units of El Presidente 
and those of the Almirante must withdraw. Now the 
Ministro controls the Presidential Palace.
El Presidente holds the Central Bank, the Ministro holds 
the Presidential Palace and the Train Station, and the 
Comandante of the Air Force & General of the Second 
Army Brigade controls the Radio Transmitter and the 
Parliament.
If the Comandante of the Air Force & General of the 
Second Army Brigade declares for the Rebels, the 
Ministro may decide which side wins...
After Movement Segment 
(Before the Battle)

Game tips
Any player who declares an action must follow through 
on it, if it’s allowed by the rules. Of course, potential 
actions can be negotiated or threatened (You know, I 
could have you assassinated right now...).
Players may leave the room to make secret agreements, 
but they shouldn’t take too long in doing so.
Lies and betrayals are permitted in this game, but only 
insofar as they stay within the rules. One must always 
immediately follow through on any permissible deal; on 
the other hand, promises about the future may be kept 
or broken.
JUNTA for two players
In the two-player version of JUNTA, in addition to the 
two actual players, three straw men play as well. The 
rules are the same as the normal JUNTA rules, with the 
following changes.
Politics Cards
At the beginning of the game, each player receives four 
Politics cards face-down. Both real players may look at 
the cards belonging to the straw men and place their 
Inﬂ uence cards face up.
The real players may deal with each other as usual. They 
can only make deals with the straw men when they 
belong to the same faction, as decided in Phase 4: The 
Budget. The real players can then secretly look again at 
a straw man’s cards and trade one card of theirs for one 
of the straw man’s. One may only deal with one straw 
man at a time, and only one straw man (at most) per 
round. Straw men do not make deals with each other. 
Nevertheless, it is possible that a straw man’s card may 
ﬁ nd its way to another straw man’s hand by way of a 
real player’s hand.
Choosing the First Presidente
At the beginning of the game, the game’s owner decides 
who is Presidente ﬁ rst. Later in the game, the player 
with the most votes in his faction determines who wins 
any given election.
Only real players may become Presidente.
If a straw man has two many cards after the drawing of 
Politics cards, the real player in his faction determines 
which cards he discards.
Real players may examine the concealed cards of the 
straw men of their faction and play their Inﬂ uence 
cards.
El Presidente receives the ofﬁ ce of Almirante of the Navy 
automatically. The other real player receives the ofﬁ ces 
of Comandante of the Air Force and General of one of 
the army brigades.
The three remaining ofﬁ ces are assigned by El 
Presidente to the three straw men.
El Presidente proposes a budget. El Presidente can 
promise straw men money to buy their loyalty. El 
Presidente must roll a certain number or lower, 
determined by the promised sum and the total number 
of votes held by the straw man, as shown on the 
following table.
Inﬂ uence Cards Votes
Votes held: 
 0–5 
6–10 
11 or more
Sum promised: 1 Million 
 
Sum promised: 2 Million 
 
Sum promised: 3 Million 
 
Sum promised: 4 Million 
Sum promised: 5 Million 
 
Five votes are added to those of the Ministro’s Inﬂ uence 
cards.
Example: El Presidente promises four million pesos in his 
budget to a straw-man Ministro for Internal Security, who 
is supported by an Inﬂ uence card (The Church, 10 Votes). 
He adds his ﬁ ve additional votes for a total of 15 votes. If 
El Presidente rolls a 1 or 2, he has successfully bought the 
Ministro’s loyalty.
All the straw men not bought off by El Presidente join 
the opposition’s faction (an X in the above table means 
an automatic failure). The straw men remain loyal to 
their faction until the next Budget Phase begins.
Then the budget is voted on—all the players in El 
Presidente’s faction automatically vote for the budget.
The real player chooses the Location of each of the straw 
men in his faction.
Only real players may go into Exile. El Presidente’s 
Cousin does not take over any Ofﬁ ces.

Pdf`rtr!Sohdkd
Phase 6: Assassination Attempts
The real player to whose faction the Ministro of 
Internal Security belongs may conduct assassinations 
through Secret Police as above. One may not attempt to 
assassinate members of one’s own faction.
El Presidente’s Cousin does not take over any Ofﬁ ces.
The real player of a faction that carries out a successful 
assassination receives the cash on hand of the victim.
Phase 7: Bank Transactions
First, the real players conclude their bank transactions.
The money belonging to the straw men is then given 
to the real player running their faction. It goes into his 
Swiss Bank Account if the relevant straw man is in the 
Bank and the Bank is open. Otherwise, the straw men’s 
money is added to the cash of the player leading their 
faction.
Otherwise, straw men do nothing with their money.
Except in the Budget phase, straw men cannot receive 
money.
Coup d’État
Each real player draws for the straw men of his faction. 
Here too, only real players may go into Exile.
JUNTA for three players
The rules for two players apply, with the following 
changes:
- The election of the ﬁ rst Presidente takes place using 
the rules for 4–7 players. Straw men do not vote.
- The third real player automatically receives the ofﬁ ce 
of Ministro of Internal Security.
- None of the real players of either faction may betray 
the Locations of their straw men in advance.
- The cash of El Presidente’s straw men is not given to El 
Presidente in the Banking Phase, but rather at the end 
of the turn. In exchange, he may use the money of the 
straw men of his faction in playing Politics cards.
Additional Rules
Here are a couple ideas for additional rules. They only 
apply if all players agree on them in advance.
Faster Game
These three options speed up the game:
- In each Phase of the game, every player has a time 
limit (e.g., thirty seconds) to make his decisions. If 
someone can’t decide on moves within the time limit, 
he loses his turn.
- A Coup may only be started by a player who is in his 
Headquarters. In addition, there must be a current 
Coup Pretext.
- After every Coup, four banknotes from the 
Development Aid deck are drawn and turned face-up 
under the deck.
Longer Game
- Discarded or spent banknotes are not placed face-up 
at the bottom of the Development Aid deck, but rather 
face-down and can thereby be drawn again.
- The number of notes that can be replaced in that 
fashion can be limited (to, e.g., ten), so that the game 
doesn’t go on forever.
Credits
Game Design: 
Vincent Tsao with Ben Grossman and Eric Goldberg
Illustrations: 
Claus Stephan & Martin Hoffmann
Card Illustrationen: 
James Dunn
Editing: 
Steven Marsh with Nikola Vrtis and Christian Stenner
English translation: 
Bill Walsh
Copyediting: 
Jan Christoph Steines
Box Design:
Hans-Georg Schneider
Interior Graphic Design: 
Christian Hanisch
Test Players: 
Steve Boegman, Jerry Bowes, Jim Burnett, Carey Gister, 
Doug Kaufman, Tom Loback, Andrew McGee, B.C. 
Milligan, Stefan Patejak, Nick Quane, Carl Skutsch, 
Stephen Tihor, Tim Paterson
Special Thanks to: 
Rachel Gibson, Jay Facciolo and Jon Rettich 
Copyright © 2010 Pegasus Spiele, Straßheimer Str. 2, 
61169 Friedberg. All rights reserved.
www.pegasus.de