Game Concept
Some years have passed since the island República de las Bananas was convulsed by unrest and coup attempts. T e military has 
become much less inﬂ uential, and private militia now do the dirty work of rival families. T e members of the junta live quietly in 
gaudy estates funded by their Swiss bank accounts.
You belong to the junta and command a private militia. Rob your adversaries and sandbag the Presidente in order to become 
president yourself. Rip oﬀ as much foreign aid as you can, hire more militiamen and expand your estate. If you can do that faster 
than your rivals, you win the game.
Game Materials 
A satirical dice game for 3–5 conspirators ages 10 and up
by Sebastian Resl and Christoph Reiser
Space for Promises
Space for Screen
Spaces for Building Tiles
Main House
Space for used Militias
Number for Militia Orders
Before Your 1st Game
B efore your ﬁ rst game, put together the Screens. Fold the 
roof, the sides, and the two ﬂ aps together in the indicated 
places. Put the tabs in the roof slots, as depicted. After the 
game, you can leave the Screens assembled. T ey’re designed 
to stack inside each other and there’s room for them in the 
box.
Additional Tip for the Building Tiles: Some tiles, like 
the Helicopter Pad or Swimming Pool, aren’t actually 
buildings, per se, but are nevertheless generally regarded by 
the members of the junta as buildings. T e Main House 
already present on the Estate at the beginning of the game 
also counts as a building.
cto
U Play immediately after 
someone has rolled dice. 
 
t Either one or all 
of the dice must 
be re-rolled.
Diversionary 
Tactic
of 
ach
ilit
n h
h
r 
h
e-
ac
a
 
-
c
 
t 2 Million Pesos
of
eac
se
Mil
ey
be
n 
f
c
ig
g
 
f p
ch 
pe
iti
r o
a
45 Game Cards
25 Building Tiles
5 Summary Cards 
(in 5 player colors)
20 Militia Dice 
(in 5 player colors)
1 Pair Presidential Sunglasses
5 Screens
nb
fo
om
sed
 
of p
ch
pe
lit
er o
5 Estates (in 5 player colors)

Game Set Up
Every player receives 1 Screen. Pick a color, and take your 
Estate, Summary Card, and 1 Militia Die in your color. T e 
rest of the dice and all the Building Tiles are placed in the 
middle of the table as Supplies. 
Shuﬄ e all 45 Game Cards face down as the Deck next to the 
Supplies. In the course of the game, place cards that have been 
played and discarded as a face up Discard Pile next to the 
Deck. When the Deck is all used up, shuﬄ e the Discard Pile 
and use it as a new Deck.
Roll to see who can be your ﬁ rst Presidente. T e victor takes the 
Presidential Sunglasses. T e Sunglasses gives you an obvious 
indication who the current Presidente is during the game. All 
the players who are not Presidente, are called Golpistas in these 
instructions. 
In some places in the instructions, you 
will ﬁ nd a box with the Presidential 
Sunglasses. T ey contain special rules that 
apply to the Presidente. 
Sungl
apply to the
Two Versions
T ere are two diﬀ erent ways to play Junta: Viva el Presidente! 
First, we will explain the rules for the Basic Game. After that 
follow the rules for the Expert Game.
If this is your ﬁ rst time playing Junta: Viva el Presidente!, you 
should play the Basic Game in order to get a feel for the game. 
Next time you get together to play, you can try the Expert 
Game. It’s nastier and sneakier than the Basic Game. And that’s 
what you’re here for, right?
Course of Play
One game takes place over several rounds. 
Every round is divided into six Phases, 
which follow each other. T ere are no turns, 
but you can usually act in every Phase. 
T e Phases are:
1) Draw Cards
2) Make Promises
3) Command Militias
4) Combat
5) Spend Money
6) Check Number of Cards
1) Draw Cards
T e Presidente begins. He takes as many cards from the Deck 
equal to the total number of players plus 2. If you’re playing 
with 4 players, for example, the Presidente draws 6 (=4+2) 
cards in this phase.
T en the Golpistas each take 1 card, proceeding in a clockwise 
direction. Exception: In the ﬁ rst round of the game, each 
Golpista takes 1 additional card, for a total of 2 cards.
Tip: You must always keep the cards in your hand hidden. 
You may not talk about what cards you have or which you 
lost in Combat. However, you may not keep the number of 
cards you have secret.
2) Make Promises
T e Presidente picks out at least 1 of the cards in his hand for 
each Golpista. He places those cards as Promises face down 
on the Space for Promises of the appropriate Estate. T e 
Golpistas may look at the Promises and put them back down, 
but they may not put them in their hands.
Tip: Immediately following the Promises is the moment 
when the Burglars card may be played.
Example: Lars (blue) is Presidente. He decides to promise 
Andy (red) and Susanne (yellow) each 1 card from his hand. 
He even gives Matt (black) 2 cards from his hand. Andy, 
Susanne, and Matt look at their Promises and put them 
back down on the Spaces for Promises.
Play
Play
l rounds. 
hases,
re no turns, 
Phase.
Cards
Example: Lars (b
Andy (red) and Su
He even gives M
Susanne, and Ma
back down on the

3) Command Militias
Each die represents 1 Militia. You begin the game with 1 
Militia, and during the course of the game, you can obtain 
more Militia dice.
In this Phase, all Golpistas give their Militias orders for attacks 
or defensive measures. To do this, place your Screen on the 
marking of the street on your Estate. T en, hidden behind 
the screen, turn the Militia Dice to the following numbers 
accordingly:
• Attack someone: In order to attack the 
Presidente or another Golpista with a Militia, 
turn the number of their respective Estate up.
• Defend yourself: To defend yourself, turn the 
die so the number of your own Estate is visible.
• Defend the Presidente: You can assist the 
Presidente in his own defense. For that, turn 
the die or dice to the number 6. T e number 
6 always refers to the defense of the Presidente, 
independent of who happens to be Presidente at 
the moment.
If you have two or more Militias, you may command them 
independent of each other. T at is, you decide individually 
what each Militia does, turning up whatever numbers you care 
to on them, except that you may not simultaneously attack and 
defend the Presidente.
The Presidente’s Militias receive 
no orders: they must defend the 
Presidente. T e Presidente may not 
attack any other players.
T
n
Pre
attack any
Tip: Immediately after setting all the Militia Dice is the 
moment at which the Spy card may be played.
As soon as all the Golpistas have given commands to their 
Militias, and no one wants to play a Spy, everyone removes his 
screen at the Presidente’s command, so that all players have a 
clear view of all the Militias.
Example: Andy (red) has set 2 Militias to 
, so that they 
attack Lars (blue), who is Presidente at the moment. His 
next Militia shows a 
, so that it attacks Matt (black). 
Andy’s fourth Militia shows a 
, so that it defends him.
Susanne (yellow) attacks Matt with 2 Militias 
 
 and 
defends herself with her other 
. 
Matt helps Presidente Lars in his defense with a 
. 
His other two Militias 
 
 attack Susanne.
4) Combat
Attack orders lead to Combat. Combat is resolved in a 
prescribed order. If someone attacks the Presidente, that 
battle is always resolved ﬁ rst. T en, proceeding in a clockwise 
fashion, all Golpistas resolve the battles in which they are the 
Defender, that is, in which they’re being attacked. If more 
than one Golpista attacks the same player, these attacks happen 
together and are resolved in the same battle.
Example: Lars is the sitting Presidente. First, the battle is 
conducted in which Lars is attacked. To his left sits Andy, 
but no one is attacking Andy in this round. Continuing 
clockwise, Susanne is next, and Matt’s attack on her is 
resolved next. Finally comes the Andy and Susanne’s attack 
on Matt, who’s sitting to Susanne’s left.
If no one attacks the Presidente, all 
the players immediately receive their 
Promises—before the battles between 
the Golpistas are carried out.
I
Pr
the Golp

In general, all combat goes identically. A battle is divided into 4 
Combat Steps which transpire in the following order:
A) Defender’s Cards
B) Attacker’s Cards
C) Roll for Militias
D) Plunder
Tip: Be careful during this Phase to keep the Militia Dice 
that have already been rolled separate from those which 
haven’t been rolled. A good way to do this is, after removing 
the Screen, place the Militias up front next to your Die 
Banner. After rolling a die, move it back to the round space 
at bottom left where your character is depicted.
A) Defender’s Cards
T e defending player may play as many cards as they like from 
their hand, as long as they are played, per the card text, “before 
battle.” If an attacker loses all attacking Militia Dice, they’re 
out of the battle. If there are no more attackers, the combat 
ends immediately.
Any player who’s defending the 
Presidente with at least 1 Militia count 
equally as defenders (of the Presidente) 
and may play cards in that battle. 
A
P
and may 
B) Attacker’s Cards
All attacking players in a given battle may play whatever cards 
in their hand they like, as long as they do so “before battle,” 
as the cards say. Independently, the defender takes part in the 
battle in any case.
If a player who is defending the 
Presidente loses all his defending 
Militia Dice, he is no longer involved in 
the battle. T e cards that player played remain 
in eﬀ ect, but he may play no further cards during that 
battle.
I
P
the battle
C) Roll for Militias
All players now roll their the Militia Dice involved in the battle 
simultaneously. You may not role a Militia which has received 
other orders. It is possible that the defender will have no Militia 
assigned to defend them. In this case, only the attackers roll.
Tip: Immediately after rolling the dice is the moment at 
which a player involved in a battle may play the Diversionary 
Tactic card.
Each attacker reports their Personal Combat Value, which is 
the sum of all the dice they’ve rolled. T e sum of these combat 
values from all attackers becomes the total Attack Value. 
T e defender then adds all the results of their rolls, adding to 
it, however, the number of buildings they have. T e sum is 
the Defense Value. Every building (including the Main House) 
raises the Defense Value by 1.
The Presidente may not roll his 
Militias! Instead, each presidential 
Militia is treated as if it had rolled a 1. 
So, his Defense Value equals the number of his 
buildings plus the number of his Militias. Added to 
that are the Personal Combat Values of the players who have 
chosen to defend the Presidente.
T
So, his D
If the Attack Value is less than or equal to the Defense Value, 
the attack was unsuccessful. If the Attack Value was higher, 
the attackers may proceed to Plunder.
D) Plunder
If the attack was successful, every attacking player may Plunder 
by taking one card from the defender’s hand at random. T e 
attacker who had the highest Personal Combat Value may 
draw ﬁ rst. (In the case of a tie, the players roll dice to see who 
goes ﬁ rst.) T e rest of the attackers follow in the order of their 
Personal Combat Value. If more players Plunder than the 
defender has cards, some of the attackers will go home empty-
handed.
If an attack on the Presidente was 
successful, the attackers ﬁ rst Plunder 
by taking a card from the Presidente’s 
hand. All (!) players then turn their Promises 
face up on the Discard Pile. No one receives them.
After all combat has been resolved, the attacker who 
attacked the Presidente with the highest Personal Combat 
Value receives the Presidential Sunglasses and becomes 
the new Presidente.
If an attack on the Presidente was not successful, all the 
players who did not attack the Presidente, immediately 
receive their Promises. It makes no diﬀ erence whether they 
have helped defend the Presidente or not. On the other 
hand, the attackers must put their Promises face up on the 
Discard Pile.
by t
hand. All

Combat Example 1: Two of Andy’s Militias 
(red) attack Presidente Lars (blue) who 
possesses 1 building and 2 Militias. Matt 
(black) sends one Militia to Lars’s defense. 
First, Lars and Matt are allowed to play 
cards, because they are the defenders. Lars 
chooses not to play any cards. Matt plays a 
Gunboat which raises the Combat Value for 
Presidente Lars by 3.
T en Andy can play cards. He plays Assassination on Matt’s 
Militia, destroying it (it’s placed back in the Supplies). After 
the assassination, Matt has no Militia left in the ﬁ ght, and 
bows out of the combat. T e Gunboat he played continues 
to be in play for Lars however.
Now Andy rolls his two attacking Militia, rolling a 6 (4+2). 
As Presidente, Lars may not roll his Militias. His Defense 
Value is 1 for one building, plus 2 for his two Militias, and 
plus 3 for the Gunboat card, totaling 6. T at’s a tie, so the 
attack is unsuccessful.
Andy’s attack has been thwarted, he may not Plunder. 
Susanne and Matt may now take their Promises and add 
them to their hand. Andy must discard his Promise.
Combat Example 2: Two of Matt’s Militias 
(black) attack Susanne (yellow), who possesses 
3 buildings and has deployed 1 Militia for 
defense. Neither care to play cards, and they 
role their Militias. Susanne throws a 4, Matt 
a 6 and a 3. Matt’s Attack value is 9, Susanne’s 
Defense Value is 7.
Matt’s attack is successful and he Plunders one 
card from Susanne’s hand.
Combat Example 3: Andy attacks Matt with 1 Militia. Susanne 
sends 2 Militia to Matt’s estate. Matt has deployed no Militias for 
his defense. No one wants to play a card, so Andy and Susanne 
roll their Militias. Andy rolls a 5, Susanne 2 and 3. T ey each 
have a Personal Combat Value of 5. T eir combined Attack Value 
is 10. Matt’s defense is 2, courtesy of his two buildings.
T e attackers win, 10-2. Andy and Susanne Plunder. T ey have 
the identical Personal Combat Value, so they each roll a die to 
see who goes ﬁ rst. Andy rolls a 2, Susanne a 4. Susanne 
may draw a card from Matt’s hand. Because Matt 
only had one card in his hand, Andy goes home 
empty-handed.
oll a die to 
anne 
 
 
X

5) Spend Money
If someone ends up with no Militias, they now receive 1 new 
Militia free. T en you may spend the (hopefully) huge fortunes 
you’ve amassed. T e Presidente may go ﬁ rst, and the Golpistas 
follow in clockwise fashion. You may buy the following:
• 4 Million Pesos: 1 Building 
 Take one building from the Supplies and put in on the 
appropriate space on your Estate. Each building raises your 
Defense Value by 1 and is worth 1 Victory Point.
• 2 Million Pesos: 1 Militia 
 Take 1 Militia die of your color from the Supplies. Each 
player may possess at most 4 Militias.
• 1 Million Pesos: 1 Card 
 Take the top card from the Deck and put it in your hand. 
If the new card delivers Foreign Aid, you may immediately 
spend this money, if you choose. Each player may buy at 
most 1 card per round.
You pay for your purchases by taking cards from your hand 
with the appropriate value and putting them on the Discard 
Pile. If you don’t have the exact sum, you get no change. You 
may, however, make more than one purchase.
Tip: In this Phase, you may play the cards Party Donation 
and PR Campaign.
6) Check Number of Cards
In this Phase, you may possess at most 4 cards. If you have 
more than 4 cards in your hand, you must discard as many 
cards as it takes to get you down to 4, placing the surplus cards 
on the Discard Pile. T e limit only applies in this Phase. Before 
this Phase, you may exceed it as much as you like.
Tip: Estates, buildings, Militias, and the number of cards 
in your hand must be visible to all players at all times. You 
may only place your Militias behind the screen when you 
give them orders.
End of the Game
As soon as at least 1 player has 5 or more Victory Points at the 
end of a Spend Money Phase, the game ends. Every building 
(including the Main House) counts as 1 Victory Point. In 
addition, the Yacht and Super Car each give 1 Victory Point 
to the player who has them in their hand. T e player with the 
most Victory Points wins. In case of a tie, the tied player with 
the most money in hand wins.
Tip: You must complete the Spend Money Phase. T e game 
does not end beforehand if someone has 5 Victory Points, 
if there are players that have not had their turn. When the 
game ends, the Check Number of Cards Phase does not 
occur, so that no one must discard cards with Foreign Aid, 
which could help break a tie and get them the win.
Example of Phase 5, Spend Money: Susanne has 2 Foreign Aid cards totaling 5 million Pesos. She 
buys 1 building and 1 card, paying for the two together by placing the 5 million pesos on the Discard 
Pile. Her new card is a Foreign Aid card worth 3 million pesos. Susanne plays the card immediately, 
buying 1 Militia, which only costs 2 million, so Susanne has paid 1 million too much. She may buy no 
more cards and receives no change.
Tip: In this Phase, you may play the cards Party Do
and PR Campaign.
Example of Phase 5, Spend
buys 1 building and 1 card, 
Pile. Her new card is a Forei
 
t 3 Million Pesos
 
t 2 Million Pesos
 
t 3 Million Pesos

Expert Game
So you’ve played the Basic Game and now want to take it to 
another level? You want it nastier and more scheming? T en 
you absolutely have to play the Expert Game! To do so, change 
the rules as follows:
End of Game
T e game ends when someone has 6 or more Victory Points. 
T e Presidential Sunglasses are now also worth 1 Victory 
Point. You’ve got more to gain by attacking the Presidente.
Destroyed Militias
If someone rolls a 1 in Combat, after the battle he may destroy 
1 opposing Militia that was involved in the battle. It has no 
inﬂ uence on the outcome of the Combat. Destroyed Militias 
are placed back in the Supplies.
Tip: T is rule ensures a ﬂ uctuation in numbers of Militia. 
T is will give you more options during Spend Money in the 
somewhat longer game up to 6 Victory Points.
Promises
When the Presidente makes his Promises in Phase 2, he may 
not only promise cards but Militias too:
• As before, he must promise each Golpista at 
least 1 card, but may additionally promise one 
or more Militia Die.
• He may promise more than one Golpista 
Militias.
• He may promise all his Militias.
• He may freely choose which number is 
facing up on the promised Militia Dice; 
it may not, however, be the number of 
the Presidente’s Estate and also not 6. T e 
Golpistas may not change the number.
(It’s best if the Presidente places the promised 
Militia(s) directly on the promised card(s) so 
that all players may see them easily.)
As before, the Presidente may not order any Militias in Phase 3 
and may not initiate attacks against Golpistas.
What consequences does this have? At ﬁ rst, a potential battle 
against the Presidente will go as usual. Unpromised Militias, as 
in the Basic game, add 1 to the Presidente’s defense. Promised 
Militias are ignored.
Example: Lars (blue) is Presidente. In addition to cards, 
he promises Matt (black) 1 Militia with the number 4. If 
Matt receives the Promises he must attack Andy with this 
additional Militia, even if he has not turned any of his 
Militias to the number 4.
In addition, Lars promises 2 of his Militias to Susanne. One 
serves in Susanne’s defense, and with the other, she too must 
attack Andy.
Anyone not receiving his Promises after a battle must give the 
promised Militia back to the Presidente immediately. On 
the other hand, if you receive the Promises, you may add the 
promised Militia to your own Militias which have not yet been 
resolved. Whatever number the Presidente has placed face up 
determines whether the Militias contribute to your defense or 
assist in attacks on other players. Be careful about the following:
• You must deploy the Militia received from the Presidente. 
You may not refuse it.
• T ese Militia are thereafter considered Presidential Militias.
• You roll the dice for them, if necessary, not the Presidente.
• T e Presidente himself does not take part in any Combat in 
which his on-loan Militias are engaged. Consequently, the 
Presidente may not play any cards in such Combat.
• If an attack succeeds with the help of a Presidential Militia, 
the Presidente may not Plunder the defeated player, only the 
attacking player—even if Presidential Militias alone were 
involved in the Combat.
• After all battles have been carried out, the Presidente receives 
his loaned-out Militias back again—as long as they weren’t 
destroyed in battle.
La

 
You destroy 1 Militia taking part in the battle 
against you. Do not return this Militia to the 
Estate of its boss, put it in the Supplies!
 
t Ignore the Presidente’s 
Militias in this Combat.
Bribery
Bribery
In the Basic Game, the Presidente’s Militias are 
not added to his Defense Value. In the Expert 
Game, the Militias loaned out by the Presidente 
are also ignored—they may not be rolled.
U Play immediately after 
someone has rolled dice. 
 
t Either one or all 
of the dice must 
be re-rolled.
Diversionary 
Tactic 
Diversionary Tactic
You can use this on your roll or another player’s 
roll, as long as you are both involved in the same 
battle. If several players are attacking together, 
you may declare the roll of only one of these 
players invalid. T e invalid roll must be re-rolled.
You may choose if exactly 1 or all dice are to 
be re-rolled. You can’t declare 2 out of 3 dice 
invalid, though, for example.
 
As attacker, you raise your Personal Combat 
Value by 3. As defender, you raise your Defense 
Value by 3. As supporter of the Presidente, you 
raise the Presidente’s Defense Value by 3.
 
t All defending Militias 
in this Combat 
have the Value 2.
(Don’t roll them.)
Peasant 
Uprising
Peasant Uprising
In this Combat, all defending players’ Militia 
receive the value of 2. If the Presidente is 
attacked, this counts for the Presidente’s Militias 
as well (they become stronger than usual!) as well 
as the Militias of the Golpistas who support the 
Presidente. In the Expert game, this card also 
aﬀ ects Presidential Militias on loan for defense.
Spy
U Play immediately 
after all players have 
commanded their Militias. 
 
t Look at the Militias of all 
other players before you 
command yours. The other 
players may not change 
their Militias’ orders.
Spy
Be careful not to miss the point when all the 
Golpistas have set their dice. As soon as the 
Presidente gives the command to raise the 
Screens, it’s too late for the Spy.
Students 
Circulate 
Petition
 
t No effect 
Students Circulate Petition
T is card has no eﬀ ect. You may not play 
it. It can, however, change hands through a 
Presidential Promise or a successful attack on its 
possessor.
T is card is worth 1 Victory Point, but does not 
raise one’s Defense Value (as a building does). 
You may never play this card. It can, however, 
change hands through a Presidential Promise or 
a successful attack on its possessor.
U Play before Combat 
as attacker. 
 
t Ignore all buildings of the 
defender in this battle.
Surprise 
Attack
Surprise Attack
In this Combat, the defender’s buildings are not 
added to their Defense Value.
Yacht
Yacht
See Supercar.
Game Designers: Sebastian Resl & Christoph Reiser
License: White Castle – Agency for Inventors 
(www.whitecastle.at)
Illustration: Claus Stephan & Martin Hoﬀ mann
Graphic Design: Claus Stephan, Martin Hoﬀ mann, 
Hans-Georg Schneider
Realization: T ygra Board Game Agency
Translation: Bill Walsh
Published by Z-Man Games, Inc. 
64 Prince Road, Mahopac, NY 1054
1under license of Pegasus Spiele GmbH
Copyright (c) 2010 Pegasus Spiele GmbH. 
All rights reserved.
For any comments, questions, 
suggestions, please contact 
zman@zmangames.com 
www.zmangames.com
Card Effects
On most cards, it is written exactly at what moment they can be played. You need Foreign Aid to Spend Money. Cards that may be 
played before combat, can be played only as described above in Combat Steps A and B. Anyone not directly involved in Combat as 
an attacker or defender may not play any cards.
Explanation of Certain Cards
Credits