A GAME BY 
GÜNTER CORNETT 
FOR 2 PLAYERS, 
AGES 10 YEARS AND UP

Game Overview
Two Kahuna — ancient sorcerers of the Pacific — 
want to find out who is more powerful. To this end, 
they compete to bring as many of the twelve islands 
as possible under their control. Both players build 
bridges between the islands of the South Seas. When 
a player has established a majority of the possible 
bridges to an island, as a sign of power, the player 
places a Kahuna token on the island. 
Goal of the Game
Three scoring rounds are played. When scoring takes 
place, you receive points if you have claimed more 
islands with Kahuna tokens 
than your opponent. And if 
you have more points than 
your opponent at the end of 
the game, you gain control of 
the island kingdom and win 
the game. 
Game Components
• 1 Game board depicting 
12 islands interconnected 
by dotted lines 
• 50 Kahuna bridges 
(25 black and 
25 white) 
• 20 Kahuna tokens 
(10 black and 
10 white)
• 24 Island cards 
(2 per island)
Preparation
• Place the game board between the two players. 
Each player receives 25 bridges and 10 tokens of 
one color, which are placed in front of each player.
• One player shuffles all of the island cards and gives 
each player three face-down cards, which the 
players draw into their hand. To get a better overall 
view, the cards should be held in such a way that 
their orientation matches that of the game board 
(the turtle and dolphin symbols on the board and 
on the cards help with alignment). 
• Place three more cards face up beside the game 
board.
• Organize the remaining island cards face down into 
a draw pile next to the three face-up cards. 
• The player who more desperately needs a vacation 
begins. Afterward, the players alternate turns.

Gameplay
General rule: On your turn, you play any number of 
your island cards. You may also abstain by not playing 
any cards. Afterward, you draw one card. However, 
your hand may not contain more than five cards at 
any given time. 
 Playing Island Cards
• When you play a card, place a Kahuna bridge on 
a free connecting line that starts from the island 
indicated on the card (marked in red) and leads to 
any neighboring island.
• If you play multiple island cards, play the cards one 
at a time (except during the removal of Kahuna 
bridges, as explained in step 3).
• If you want, you can abstain from playing a card.
• All played cards are placed on a discard pile.
• If your hand contains five island cards and you 
cannot or do not want to play any island card(s), you 
must place one or more of your cards face down 
under the discard pile in order to draw a new card.
 Controlling Islands: Placing Kahuna Tokens 
• If you have placed your own Kahuna bridges on 
more than half of an island's connecting lines, you 
have gained control over it. Place one of your Kahuna 
tokens on this island. 
 Note: The number of lines below the names of the 
islands on the cards indicates how many connecting 
lines (3, 4, 5, or 6) lead off the respective island.
• Remove all of your opponent's Kahuna bridges 
connected to this island and return them to their 
owner. 
Important: The removal of Kahuna bridges may 
cause a player to lose control of neighboring islands, 
with the result that he or she must remove Kahuna 
tokens from these islands.
 Removing Kahuna Bridges 
• You can also remove one of your opponent's 
Kahuna bridges by playing two suitable island 
cards at the same time. To do this, you must play 
two cards that each show one of the two islands 
connected by the opponent's bridge. The two cards 
can show the same island or both islands. 
Example: The connection between HUNA and 
ELAI can be severed by means of one of the 
following three pairs of cards: "HUNA - ELAI“, 
"HUNA - HUNA" or "ELAI - ELAI".
• If you can also play another suitable island card 
(in the example, this card would be HUNA or 
ELAI) that allows you to place one of your own 
Kahuna bridges on the connecting line you just 
removed your opponent's Kahuna bridge from, 
the implications can be far-reaching (see also the 
detailed example on page 5 of these game rules).
 Drawing an Island Card
• At the end of your turn, draw one card. Regardless 
of whether you have played no cards, one card, or 
multiple cards, you may only draw one card.
• Either take one of the three face-up cards and 
immediately replace that card with one from the 
face-down draw pile or draw the top island card 
from the face-down draw pile.
• You may abstain from drawing a card, unless your 
opponent has abstained from drawing a card on his 
turn immediately before.
• If your hand already contains five cards, you are 
not allowed to draw another card. If your opponent 
has abstained from drawing a card on his turn 
immediately before and your hand contains five 
cards, you have to play or discard at least one card 
so you can draw a card at the end of your turn. 
• Once you have drawn a card, your turn ends.

Interim Scoring
• There are two interim scorings. Once the face-
down draw pile is depleted and the last of the 
three face-up island cards has been drawn, the 
players briefly interrupt the game. 
• Each player counts the islands he or she has 
marked with his or her Kahuna tokens.
• If there is a tie, none of the players receives a 
point.
• In the first interim scoring, the player who has 
more Kahuna tokens on the game board receives 
one point. 
• In the second interim scoring, the player who has 
more Kahuna tokens on the game board receives 
two points.
• Each player should make a mental note of his or 
her score or write it down on a piece of paper.
• Afterward, shuffle the island cards of the discard 
pile, create a new draw pile and once again place 
three cards face up. 
• Both players keep the cards they already have in 
their hands. 
• The turn of the player who triggered the interim 
scoring ends and the other player takes his or her 
turn.
Final Scoring and End of the Game
When the draw pile is depleted for the third time 
and the last of the three face-up island cards has 
been drawn, each player takes one more turn. This 
is the last time they can play their cards.
Afterward, the final scoring takes place. The rules 
for the final scoring are different than the rules for 
interim scoring. 
• Once more, each player counts the Kahuna tokens 
he or she has on the game board. The player 
with more tokens receives points equal to the 
difference between the players' token counts.
• The player with the higher point total from the 
two interim scorings plus the final scoring wins 
the game. In case of a tie, the winner is the player 
with the higher point total in the final scoring. If, 
after the three scorings, both players have zero 
points, the player who has more bridges on the 
game board wins. If there is still a tie, there is no 
winner.
Premature End of the Game 
If, during the second or third scoring round, one of 
the players no longer has any Kahuna bridges on 
the game board, the game ends prematurely. In this 
case, the other player wins.

Starting situation:
White's turn
New situation:
Black's turn
Situation after these turns:
White's turn (continued):
Next, White places a bridge between ALOA and 
BARI 5 . Now he has control over ALOA and 
places a Kahuna token there 6 . He removes the 
black bridge between ALOA and HUNA 7 , as 
a result of which Black also loses control over 
HUNA and must remove his Kahuna token from 
this island 8 .
Detailed 
example, 
illustrating how 
control over 
the islands can 
change within 
two game 
rounds:
White's turn: 
The white player 
places a bridge 
between BARI 
and DUDA 1 , 
gains control 
over BARI and 
places a Kahuna 
token on the 
island 2 . White 
removes the 
black bridge 
between BARI 
and ALOA 3 . 
As a result, 
Black loses 
control over 
ALOA and must 
remove his 
Kahuna token 
there 4 . 

Black's turn:
First, Black plays two HUNA cards and therefore may 
remove the white bridge between HUNA and ELAI 9 .
Then, Black plays an ELAI card, places a bridge between 
HUNA and ELAI 10, and thus gains control over HUNA 
and ELAI. He places Kahuna tokens on each of the two 
islands 11 and removes the white bridges between HUNA 
and DUDA, DUDA and ELAI, and ELAI and BARI 12. 
Furthermore, White removes his Kahuna token from DUDA 
13, since he has lost control there as well.
Variant 1
If you want to play the game with fewer surprise 
effects and proceed more strategically, you can 
change the rules as follows: 
• A player may only place a Kahuna bridge on a free 
connecting line between two islands if none of 
these two islands is under the opponent's control 
(none of them is marked with one of his or her 
Kahuna tokens). If a player can remove a Kahuna 
bridge by playing two suitable island cards, he 
or she may place one of his or her own Kahuna 
bridges on the connecting line that has thereby 
become available, without playing an additional 
card. Here, too, he or she may only place the bridge 
if none of the two islands is under the opponent's 
control. 
Variant 2
If you want a game that relies more on tactics and 
less on luck, you can use the following variant:
• If a player draws a card face up, he or she must 
place it face up in front of himself. He or she may 
play it like the cards in his or her hand, and it also 
counts as a card in his or her hand. 
Handicap Play
When an experienced player plays with a beginner 
or when it becomes apparent that the players have 
different playing abilities, they can also play with a 
handicap. In this case, after dealing the cards the 
less experienced player may place one, two, or three 
bridges of his or her color on any connecting line of 
his or her choice, depending on the agreement. 
The Game Designer
Günter Cornett was born in 1960 
in Flensburg, Germany, and lives in 
Berlin. Among other things, he has 
been a professional driver, garden 
worker, and game salesman. He works as a game 
reviewer and in multimedia. He dedicates his 
free time to kayaking, the Internet, and “Bambus 
Spieleverlag," his own independent game publishing 
house, which originally published several hundred 
copies of this fascinating two-player game with a 
different graphic design and under a different name. 
The game designer and publisher thank the many 
game testers and people who reviewed the game 
rules.
Art: Claus Stephan
Graphic Design: Pohl & Rick
Editorial Team: TM-Spiele, Michael Baskal, Ralph Querfurth
English Translation: Gavin Allister
English Text Editing: Ted McGuire
Additional Design: Dan Freitas
© 1998, 2012 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG 
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
© 2014 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of Thames & Kosmos, LLC.
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872 	
Email: support@thamesandkosmos.com
Customer Service UK: 01580 212000 	
www.thamesandkosmos.co.uk
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
691806-02-121114