Object of the game: To reach your opponent's “home row” with one of your colored dragon towers. Achieving 
this in the Single Round (Base Game) wins the game. When playing match games, your tower gets promoted to 
a “Sumo” dragon tower and is worth one point to its owner. In later rounds the “Sumo” can became a “Double” 
worth 3 points or “Triple Sumo” worth 7 points. A “Triple Sumo” that gets promoted again scores 15 total points.
 The game is offered in the following matchups:
 Single Round (Base Game): where the ﬁrst player to score 1 point is the winner.
 Standard Match: where the ﬁrst player to score a total of 3 points is the winner.
 Long Match: where the ﬁrst player to score a total of 7 points is the winner.
 Marathon Match: where the ﬁrst player to score a total of 15 points is the winner.
 1. Setup:
 Each player places each tower on their “home row”, matching the tower’s color to their speciﬁc square color.
 2. Playing the game
 During each round, the players take turns moving a dragon tower, each attempting to be the ﬁrst to place a 
 dragon tower on a square within their opponent’s “home row” (rear row). The dragon towers are moved 
 according to these 2 rules:
 Rule 1: For the ﬁrst move only in any round, the player can select any of their eight dragon towers to move.
 Rule 2: For all subsequent moves in that round, each player must move the dragon tower that matches the 
 color of the square on which their opponent’s previous piece has been placed. IE: Player one moves his
 yellow tower to a purple square. Player two must then move their purple tower to a valid square.
 3. Valid Movement:
 Rule 1: Towers must be moved in a straight line, vertically or diagonally forwards. Sideway or backward 
 moves are NEVER allowed (except backward moves made as a result of a “Sumo push”).
 Rule 2: Towers can be moved any number of squares, but may not pass through any square that already 
 contains a tower (player or opponent). 
 Rule 3: A tower can only move to an empty square (two towers can’t occupy the same space).
 Rule 4: A tower can move diagonally between two towers which touch corner-to-corner.
 Rule 5: A tower must be moved at least one square, assuming that it is possible to do so.
 Rule 6: If unable to move the required tower in any direction forward that player loses their turn, allowing 
 their opponent to immediately move again.
 Rule 7: The round ends once a player moves a tower to any square within their opponent’s “home row”.
 Rule 8: In rare circumstances, there are occasions where players can ﬁnd themselves in “deadlock 
 situations”. These circumstance occur when both players have towers which are completely blocked and 
 are unable to be moved OR have two towers that repeat moves indeﬁnitely. In either of these situations, the 
 player who made that ﬁnal move (creating this occurrence) is considered to have lost the round.
 4. Continued Setup for Match Play: 
 If playing more than one round, players do not immediately reset the board. The order of the “home row” will 
 be partially determined by the ﬁnished order of the pieces from the previous game. The initial order, in which 
 they are placed, is determined by the winner of the previous round-choosing to ﬁll from the left or from the right.
 
Kamisado

Kamisado
 4. Continued Setup for Match Play (Continued): 
 • Rules governing ﬁlling from left or right :
 Rule 1: The player who won the previous round (the “Defender”) chooses in which direction to ﬁll.
 Rule 2: The player who lost the previous round (the “Challenger”) must ﬁll in the same way.
 Rule 3: If ﬁlling from the left, ﬁll from brown to orange square; ﬁlling from the right, orange to brown square. 
 Rule 4: Using the ﬁnal order of the towers, from the previous game, you begin ﬁlling your “home row”. The 
 piece that is closest to “home row” and nearest to the corner the “Defender” selected is placed into this corner 
 space. The next order of pieces are also determined by row ﬁrst, then the column that is closest to the corner 
 space selected. IE: You choose left to right (start on brown) and your closest two towers are on row 2, one on
 blue and the other on orange. The one on blue is ﬁrst since it’s closest to the brown corner starting space.
 5. Movement as “Sumo” dragon towers:
 When a round ends, the piece that landed on their opponents “home row” receives one of the clear plastic 
 “Dragon’s Teeth” for the top of that tower. Now referred to as a “Sumo” piece, it possesses the ability of the 
 “Sumo Push” with the following qualities according to the number of “teeth” it holds:
 •1 “Dragon’s Teeth”: 
 Movement is limited to a maximum of 5 spaces 
 Can push a regular tower
 Landing on the “home row” gains you 3 points, and a second “Dragon Teeth”. 
 •2 “Dragon’s Teeth”: 
 Movement is limited to a maximum of 3 spaces 
 Can push up to 2 towers at once (up to any combination of “Sumo” or regular tower pieces- 2 total)
 Landing on the “home row” gains you 7 points, and a third “Dragon Teeth” 
 •3 “Dragon’s Teeth”: 
 Movement is now limited to 1 space 
 Can push up to 3 towers at once (any combination of “Double Sumo”, “Sumo” or regular pieces- 3 total)
 Landing on the “home row” gains you 15 points. 
 
 Speciﬁc Rules Regarding the “Sumo Push”:
 1. The opponent’s tower must be on the square immediately in front of the Sumo tower
 2. The opponent had to end their previous move on a square color that matches the color of the Sumo tower 
 3. You only push the opponents piece(s) backwards one space in a vertical direction (never diagonally)
 4. A “Sumo Push” is an option that the player is not obliged to use, assuming there are alternative diagonally 
 forward moves (which bypass the piece) which could be pushed.
 5. Immediately after the Sumo push, the opponent loses their turn, and the original player (making the Sumo 
 push) moves again using the dragon tower whose color matches the square which the opponents piece was
 pushed onto. IE: if you pushed your opponents pieces backwards onto the red square, move your red tower. 
 6. There must be an empty square behind the pushed piece (for this piece to be pushed onto) since the color
 of this square determines what color tower will be moved next. 
 7. “Sumo’s” cannot push a piece if it’s on their opponents home row (cannot push a piece off the board).
 8. A player can only perform a “Sumo Push” on their opponent’s pieces (never their own pieces).