TL 86912
Rüdiger Dorn
An addictive tile-based game 
for 2 to 4 treasure hunters 
ages 8+ 

any moons have come and gone since your boats departed on the journey to 
Karuba. Once you arrive on the island, each player will lead an expedition team 
of four adventurers. Now you just have to navigate your way through the dense 
jungle to make it to the temples. „Just“ may be something of an understatement; 
the ancient jungle trails have to be found and uncovered first! Hurry up and be the 
first to reach the temples to collect the most valuable treasures. Many paths have 
dead ends and you need to be patient to find the right/best way (through the jung-
le). Look! A gold nugget! You can pick it up and collect it, same applies to the shiny 
crystals along the paths.
A I M O F T H E G A M E
The expedition team with the most valuable treasures wins.
 
G A M E C O N T E N T S
4 islands
144 jungle tiles
16 adventurers 
16 temples
16 temple treasures
64 crystals 
16 gold nuggets 
M
(36 tiles each, numbered from 1 to 36 in red, gray, green and light brown)
 (4 each in brown, 
blue, purple and yellow)
 (4 each in brown, blue, purple 
and yellow)
(worth 2, 3, 4 or 5 points and colored brown, blue, purple and yellow)
(worth 1 point)
(worth 2 points)

…
 P R E PA R AT I O N
Players take an island each and place it in front of them. 
In addition, every player will receive the following: 
◆	4 adventurers in the four different colors
◆	4 temples in the four different colors
◆	36 jungle tiles with identical color on 
the back (the colors are not important).
In front of each temple there should be as many temple treasures as there are players. 
Depending on the number of players take treasures with the following values: 
2 players: 5, 3
3 players: 5, 3, 2
4 players: 5, 4, 3, 2
Create a face up stack for each treasure color (4 stacks in total), and place the stacks 
in the middle of the table, sorted in descending order of value. Place the other temple 
treasures back in the box.
For a three-player game, take the three temple treasures with the values 5, 3 and 2 in the 
colors brown, blue, yellow and violet. Create four stacks, each with the treasure worth 
2 points at the bottom and the treasure worth 5 at the top of the stack.
Place the crystals and gold nuggets somewhere, 
easy to reach, in the middle of the table.
A D V E N T U R E R A N D T E M P L E
Before each game, players cooperatively decide where to place their adventurers and 
temples. 
Each island should have all the adventurers and temples placed in exactly the same 
positions; in other words all of the islands must look the same before the game.
Place the adventurers on the numbers on the beach and place the temples on the 
numbers in the jungle.
Each player chooses an adventurer and places it on any number on the beach. Next, 
place the temple of the same color on a number in the jungle, (a minimum of 3 num-
bers distance between an adventurer and temple of the same color). All of the other 
players then place their adventurers and temples of the same color on these numbers 
as well. (All adventurers and temples are set up in this way, so that in a three-player 
game, one player determines the position of two adventurers and two temples, 
whereas in a two-player game both players decide twice.)

Henriette chooses the blue adventurer and places it at 20 degrees on the beach. She places 
the blue temple at 100 degrees in the jungle. Miriam, Christina and Luis also place their blue 
adventurers on their islands at 20 degrees on the beach and the blue temple at 100 degrees 
in the jungle.
Miriam places the yellow adventurer at 90 
degrees on the beach and the yellow temple at 
10 degrees in the jungle. Her teammates do 
the same.
Christina places the purple adventurer at 110 
degrees on the beach and the purple temple 
at 60 degrees in the jungle. Her teammates 
do the same.
Luis is left with the brown adventurer, and he 
places it at 60 degrees on the beach. He pla-
ces the brown temple at 70 degrees in the jungle. 
His teammates do the same.
H O W T O P L AY
Each player plays only on their own island card while racing to beat the other players 
in the hunt for the most valuable temple treasures. Use the tiles to build paths along 
which the adventurers move to get to the temple of the same color. On their way, the 
adventurers can collect crystals and gold nuggets, which also count as treasures at the 
end of the game.
The expedition leader reveals the topmost tile of their stack and calls out the number 
on this tile in a clear voice. All the other players look for this tile in their stockpile at 
the same time. You now have two options of what to do with this tile (Options A & B 
described below). Once each player has performed option A or B, then the expedition 
leader uncovers another tile, etc.
Draw straws to determine 
which player will be lea-
der of the expedition. 
This player shuffles 
their 36 jungle tiles 
well, and places 
them in a face 
down stack in front of their island. 
The other players sort their 36 tiles ac-
cording to the numbers and place them 
face up around their island.
Here is what the islands could look like

A . L AY T I L E O N T H E I S L A N D
◆ You may only lay tiles on free fields. 
◆ The tile must be placed so that the number is in the upper left hand 
corner of the tile.
◆ Tiles do not have to be placed next to other tiles, but placed be laid on any field in 
the island grid.
◆ You may create paths where tiles without paths border each other and thereby lead 
to a dead end. (See image)
◆ If a tile with a crystal or gold nugget is uncovered, everyone takes the appropriate 
item from the middle of the table and places it on this tile. At the end of the game 
you will receive points for crystals and gold nuggets collected by your adventurers 
during the play.
Tip: Always make sure that an adventurer or temple is not accidentally blocked and thus 
stranded in a dead end.
B . D I S C A R D T I L E A N D M O V E A D V E N T U R E R
If you discard a tile, you can move an adventurer. This is how your adventurers 
collect gold and crystals, and how they reach the temple of the same color. 
◆ For each discarded tile, you may move an adventurer as many steps, in any direction, 
as there are paths leading to the edge of the discarded tile (you may move 2, 3 or 4 
steps, depending on the discarded tile). 
◆ A step is always one tile forwards. 
◆ Adventurers may only move along the paths. 
◆ Only one adventurer may occupy each tile, and leaping over them is not allowed. 
◆ At intersections adventurers may turn in any direction. 
◆ Movement points may not be distributed amongst several adventurers.
◆ Movement points may be forfeited.
This tile has 3 paths leading to the edge of the tile. A player who discards it can 
move an adventurer of their choice a maximum of 3 steps along their path.
Not allowed: 
Tiles where the 
numbers are not in the 
upper left hand corner 
Allowed: 
Single tiles on 
the board that 
don‘t connect to 
another path
Allowed: 
Tiles with paths 
bordering tiles that 
create a 
dead end
Not allowed: 
Tiles placed outside or 
not entirely on the grid

+
+
C O L L E C T G O L D N U G G E T S A N D C R Y S TA L S 
In order to collect gold nuggets or crystals, an adventurer must finish their 
turn on the tile in question, and forfeit any additional movement points. 
Take the treasure off the tile and place it on the picture of the adventurer to the left of the 
island map. Crystals and gold nuggets remain there until the end of the game and are 
counted as victory points in the final scoring. You do not have to collect gold nuggets and 
crystals and may pass by them.
R E A C H I N G A T E M P L E
Once an adventurer moves to a temple (i.e. to the degree where the 
temple is), the corresponding player takes the most valuable treasure of 
this temple color remaining from the middle of the table, and places it in front of them. 
The adventurer will then stay put at the temple until the end of the game.
If several players reach a temple of the same color in the same turn, each of them receives 
the same number of victory points: One player takes the most valuable treasure of this 
temple from the stack. The others take the less valuable treasures from the same stack, 
and make up the difference with crystals from the crystal stockpile. 
Luis has reached the brown temple with his brown adventurer and taken the brown treasure worth 
5 points. Miriam and Christina both reach the brown temple with their brown adventurers in a 
later round. Miriam takes the treasure worth four points. Christina receives the treasure worth 3 
points and takes an additional crystal from the stockpile. This means that Miriam and Christina 
both receive 4 victory points for reaching the brown temple.
E N D O F T H E G A M E
The game ends when 
◆ the last of the 36 jungle tiles is uncovered by the expedition leader, or 
◆ all 4 adventurers of one player have reached their temples,
whichever occurs first.
 
Gold nuggets and crystals still on the tiles of your islands are not scored as victory points.
The player with the highest number of points wins. In the event of a tie, the winner will be 
the one of the tied players who has the most jungle tiles on their island. If there is still a 
tie, these players are joint winners.
Temple treasures 
(printed value)
crystals 
(1 point each) 
gold nuggets 
(2 points each)
The winner is the player with the most points as scored below:
Author:
Illustrator:
Editor:
Rüdiger Dorn
Claus Stephan 
Jürgen Valentiner-Branth
© HABA-Spiele Bad Rodach 2015, Art.-Nr. 300932

FAQ
What happens when two or more players cannot decide what to do with their tiles, as 
their decision depends on what their co-players do? 
In this case, the player currently holding the most points decides first. If two or more 
players are tied for the lead, the oldest decides first. 
 
G O A L
Move your adventurers to the temples of the according color and collect gold, crystals 
and temple treasures. 
P R E PA R AT I O N
◆ Each player takes the following: 
	 1 island, 4 adventurers, 4 temples, 36 jungle tiles with identical color on the back
◆	Place temple treasures in 4 stacks in the middle of the table, most valuable treasures 
on top, others in descending order depending on number of players (2 players 5/3, 
3 players 5/3/2, 4 and 5 players 5/4/3/2)
◆ Set the scene: Each player places an adventurer on a number on the beach and the 
temple of the same color on a number in the jungle.
 Game set up is identical on each island before the start of the game.
◆ Expedition leader: Places shuffled jungle tiles covered as a stack in front of them
◆ Other players: Sort their jungle tiles by number & place face up around their island.
H O W T O P L AY
◆ Expedition leader turns a jungle tile face up and calls out the number on it
◆ All of the players look for the same jungle tile
	
◆ Option A: Lay jungle tile on the island
 
◆ Option B: Discard jungle tile and move adventurer (one step for every path leading 
to the edge of the jungle tile)
◆ Your turn ends on a jungle tile with gold/crystal: Collect gold/crystal 
◆ Your turn ends on a temple: Take the most valuable of the remaining temple trea- 
	 sures in the temple’s color 
 
E N D O F T H E G A M E
◆	Last jungle tile turned face up by the expedition leader 
or
◆ A player has moved all adventurers to their temples 
Most points (temple treasures + 2 points per gold + 1 point per crystal) = Winner
 Q U I C K R E F E R E N C E G U I D E
WARNING:
CHOKING HAZARD - 
Small parts. Not for children under 3 years.
!