RULEBOOK

A Game by Jacques Bariot and Guillaume Montiage, 
illustrated by Pierre Santamaria, Pascal Quidault, Emile Denis and Dimitri Bielak,
For 2 to 5 players, ages 14+. Game duration: 90 minutes
In the mythical age of ancient Egypt, powerful gods deploy their forces into battles for dominance of the land! Deep in the vast desert, and in the shadows 
of enormous temples, they use their many powers to build their armies, summon mythological creatures, and fight to gain control over Kemet! The goal of 
these battles is to crush all rival gods, and through the resulting fame, win the eternal devotion of the people of Egypt!
Each player takes control of an Egyptian divinity: Anubis, Bastet, Horus, Ouadjet, or Sobek, as they struggle for power using their armies. 
The player with the most Fame Points (FP) at the end of the game is the winner (see «3.3 - End of game» for end game conditions).
GOAL OF THE GAME
1- COMPONENTS
The game board allows for 2 to 5 players to play using these base 
game rules and will accommodate up to 6 players with a future 
expansion.
Use one of the following configurations based on player count:
The game board consists of the following zone types:
Components:
• 1 game board
• 64 Power tiles in 4 colors 
(16 Ruby, 16 Sapphire, 16 Diamond, and 16 Onyx)
• 10 Creature miniatures
• 6 Mercenary miniatures
• 38 Divine Intervention cards
• 2 Special battle cards
• 1 Score & Turn Order track
• 80 Fame Point tokens
• 20 Veteran tokens
• 5 Statue tokens
• 2 Storm overlays
• 5 Silver and 5 Gold Action tokens
• 5 Player aids 
Components for each player (in 5 colors):
• 12 Unit miniatures
• 5 Action tokens
• 1 Individual board
• 1 Prayer marker
• 1 Order marker
• 8 Battle cards
• 3 Pyramids in 3 parts each
• 4 Pyramid tops in 4 colors 
(Ruby, Sapphire, Diamond, and Onyx)
• 4 ‘‘Buy a Power tile’’ tokens in 4 colors
2 players
4 players
3 players
5 players
Temples:
Zones containing 1 of the 3 buildings shown below.
Note: Do not use the grey portions of the game board or 
those covered by storms in each diagram when playing 
with the configuration corresponding to the player count.

+ + 22
Harbor:
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Level 4
‘‘Buy a Power tile’’ tokens:
Every zone is outlined by either a white line, the Nile, or the edge 
of the game board, except for Districts, which are outlined by Walls. 
The zone containing a sandstorm is not used in the base game and 
is not considered to be in play.
Some zones may contain a Harbor or an Obelisk, which affect 
movement. 
1.3 Power tiles
1.4 Divine Intervention cards (DI)
1.5 Battle cards
1.6 Pyramids level
1.2 Individual boards
Note: Each time a player raises a Pyramid of a new color 
in their City, they place a «Buy a Power Tile token» of the 
corresponding color on 1 of these empty spaces.
(see the corresponding Action 3.4.2).
Note : A Pyramid in your supply is considered to be level 0.
Trading Harbor
(blue).
Military Harbor
(red).
Districts: 
Each City consist of 3 
Districts.
Sanctuary of All Gods:
The zone containing this 
building.
Deserts: 
Land zones that do not contain a City, The Sanctuary of All 
Gods, or a Temple.
Obelisk :
Move
Ruby
Sapphire Diamond
Onyx
Buy a 
Power tile
Recruit
Pray
Card effect 
(see Player aid)
Day Phase
Night Phase
Battle
an Action
Creature
Icon that shows when the Power tile is active:
Prayer Point track
Raise a 
Pyramid
Divine Will
Level: Shows its level, color (Ruby, 
Sapphire, Diamond, Onyx) 
and cost (1 to 4 Prayer Points) 
Icon that shows 
when the Divine 
Intervention (DI) card 
may be played
Defense value
Damage value
Unblockable damage value
Strength value
Card color
Tile effect (see Player aid)
Cost in Prayer Points, if 
any, required to play the 
DI card
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3

2- SETUP
Power tile colors and number based on player count:
• 2 players => 2 colors, 26 Power tiles *
• 3 players => 3 colors, 48 Power tiles
• 4 players => 3 colors, 48 Power tiles
• 5 players => 4 colors, 64 Power tiles
* In 2 player games remove the following:
• The «Act Of God» Power tiles.
• 1 copy of each Power tile with a duplicate, so there is only 1 of each 
Power tile.
Return all unused Power tiles to the box.
2.1 Common Setup
1. Place the board in the center of the play area. Then use the 
configuration that corresponds to the player count.
2. Randomly select the colors of the Power tiles to use, based on 
the player count (see the table below).
3. Place all of the Power tiles in the selected colors faceup at the 
top of the board separated by color in ascending order by level.
4. Place the 2 Special Battle cards at the top of the board, near the 
Power tiles, if they are being used.
5. Place each Creature miniature on its corresponding Power tile.
6. Place the Divine FP tokens (grey square) on the Domination 
and Sphinx Power tile, if they are being used.
7. Place 1 Temple FP token (white rounded) on each Temple used 
in the game based on the player count.
8. Place the remaining FP tokens, the Gold and Silver Action 
tokens, and the Veteran tokens in the general supply.
9. Each player takes 1 copy of the Divine Intervention (DI) card 
named Diversion. Return all unused DI card named Diversion to 
the box. 
10. Shuffle all other DI cards, and place them facedown next to the 
board to create the DI deck.
Note: the FP won (or lost) by the players are placed (or 
removed) on the score and turn order board in front of the 
corresponding Divinity.

Start of game turn order
Randomly select and place each player’s Order marker on the Turn 
Order track from left to right. The player whose Order marker is 
on the left will be the 1st player, with turn order proceeding from 
left to right. 
Troop placement
Each player chooses 2 Districts in their City and places 5 Units 
in them both, and then places their remaining 2 Units in their 
supply.
Pyramid Setup
In turn order, each player places a total of 3 levels of Pyramids 
from their supply into Districts in their City. No more than 2 
levels can be added to a single District at this time. 
After placing their initial Pyramids, the player places a Buy a 
Power Tile token in each corresponding color on an empty Buy a 
Power Tile Action space on their Individual board.
Acquiring a Level 1 Power Tile
Then, in reverse turn order, each player chooses a level 1 Power 
tile corresponding to the color of 1 of their Pyramids and places it 
in front of them.
2.2 Individual Setup
1. Each player chooses a City which will be their City and determine 
their player color for the whole game. Each player places their 
Statue tokens in front of their City.
2. Each player takes the following components matching the color 
of their chosen City’s statue:
• 1 Individual board depicting their Divinity and their Pyramid,
• The «Buy a Power Tile» tokens corresponding to the colors of 
Power tiles selected in step 2 of 2.1,
• 1 Order marker,
• 1 Prayer marker that they place on the «7» space of the Prayer 
Point track on their Individual board,
• 5 Action tokens in their color,
• 12 Unit miniatures (each miniature constitutes 1 Unit),
• 8 Battle cards
3. Each player draws 2 DI cards.
4. Each player takes 9 Pyramid parts*, 3 of each level, and the tops 
corresponding to the colors of Power tiles selected in step 2 of 
2.1: Ruby, Sapphire, Diamond, or Onyx.
* In 2 player games, both players take 6 Pyramid parts, consisting 
of 2 of each level.
2.3 Before starting to play

3.4.1 Pray
3.4.2 Buy a Power tile
3.1 Introduction
3.4 Actions
3.2 Day Phase
A game of Kemet: Blood and Sand is played over a series of Rounds. 
Each Round consists of one Day Phase, followed by one Night 
Phase.
Day Phase (player actions)
In turn order, each player takes their turn as the active player and 
plays and resolves 1 of their 5 Action tokens. This continues until 
each player has placed and resolved all 5 of their Action tokens, at 
which point the Day Phase is over.
Night Phase (resolution)
The Night Phase is divided into 9 steps which are resolved in order.
During these steps, Night Phase powers activate, Divine Intervention 
(DI) cards are allocated, and Fame Points (FP) and Prayer Points (PP) 
are awarded.
Permanent FP and Temporary FP
Throughout the game, players gain FP. 
Permanent FP are square tokens and cannot be lost. They are gained 
in battles, from buying specific Power tiles, or during the Night 
Phase by controlling at least 2 Temples or The Sanctuary of All Gods. 
Temporary FP are round tokens and may be lost. They are awarded 
for control of each Temple (white) and each level 4 Pyramid (beige).
Order of Rules Precedence
If two rules contradict each other, the rule with the highest priority 
(highest number) takes precedence:
4) DI card > 3) Power tile > 2) expansion > 1) game rules.
In turn order, each player must place 1 Action token on an empty 
Action space of their Individual board. Action token placement is 
subject to the Equilibrium rule (described below), and a selected 
action’s effects are resolved immediately. This continues until 
each player has placed and resolved their 5 Action tokens, at which 
point the Day Phase is over.
Available actions on Individual boards are detailed on the next page.
A player can play a DI card with a Day Phase icon any time during 
their turn except during a Battle.
Note: This means this player already had the required 
amount of FP to win after having played their previous 
action, each opponent being able to play 1 action to 
respond.
Gain 2 Prayer Points (PP).
Temple FP
Divine FP
Battle FP
Pyramid FP
Equilibrium rule
At the end of the Day Phase, each player must have at least 1 Action 
token on each of the 3 levels of the pyramid on their Individual 
board.
Playing Silver and Gold Action tokens
These Action tokens are played at the same time as another Action 
token in the player’s color to receive a bonus action. The player 
chooses in which order to resolve their actions, but each action 
must be completely resolved before moving onto the next one. 
Silver Action token: 
A player can play this Action token on an empty Action space on their 
Individual board.
Gold Action token: 
A player can play this Action token on the Gold Action space at the 
top of the pyramid on their Individual Board. They may buy multiple 
Power tiles using a Gold Action token, but can only play 1 Gold Action 
token during the same round.
All of the actions that can be taken during a game of Kemet: Blood and 
Sand are covered in the following section.
Note: If you buy a Power tile and you do not have the 
corresponding color token on your Individual board, you 
must place your Action token on any available «Buy 
a Power Tile token» space on your Individual board 
(including an «empty» box).
A Buy a Power Tile action allows a player to buy a Power tile of 
the same color as a Pyramid they control. A player can only buy 1 
Power tile of a specific color during the same Day Phase.
3- GAMEPLAY
If a player has at least 9 FP (sum of their Temporary FP and 
Permanent FP) on their turn before playing an Action token, and 
no other player has more FP than them, they immediately win the 
game.
3.3 End of game

or
if
3.4.3 Raise a Pyramid
3.4.4 Recruit
A Raise A Pyramid action allows a player to raise the level of 1 of 
their existing Pyramids or raise a new Pyramid and add it to a district 
in their city without one. In the case of a new Pyramid, the player 
also places a Buy a Power Tile token in the corresponding color on 
an empty Buy a Power Tile Action space on their Individual board.
For a player to raise the level of 1 of their existing Pyramids by any 
number of levels, they must spend Prayer points equal to the sum 
of the level or levels they wish to raise the Pyramid.
A player wishing to raise a new Pyramid must pay for the level 
or levels that they wish to raise it by, and place it in one of their 
districts without a Pyramid.
Examples:
Examples:
• To raise a level 2 Pyramid to level 3, spend 3 PP.
• To raise a level 1 Pyramid to level 3, spend 5 PP
(2 PP to raise it to level 2, and 3 PP more to raise it to level 3).
Pyramid effects
• Each Pyramid allows its controller to buy Power tiles that match its 
color and are of the same or lower level.
• Each level 4 Pyramid gives 1 Pyramid FP to the player that controls 
its District.
• Each Pyramid allows Units in its District to be teleported to any 
zone containing an Obelisk by spending 2 Prayer Points.
Important!
If a Pyramid’s District is controlled by an opponent, the original 
player loses these benefits to the controlling player.
Buy Conditions
To buy a Power tile, a player must control a Pyramid of the same 
color which is at least the same level as the Power tile they 
want to buy. A player cannot buy a Power tile that has the same 
artwork as one they already own.
There are 2 ways a player can do this:
1. A player can buy a Power tile in the color of a Pyramid they 
control in their City by placing an Action token on an available 
Buy a Power Tile Action space on their Individual board 
matching the color of the Power tile they wish to buy and 
paying PP equal to the level of that Power tile.
2. A player can buy a Power tile in the color of a Pyramid they 
control in an opponent’s City by placing an Action token on 
any available Buy a Power tile action space on their Individual 
board regardless of color (including an «empty» box), and 
paying PP equal to the level of that Power tile.
Cost
When a player buys a Power tile, they must spend as many PP as 
the level indicated on the Power tile. The player owns the Power 
tile for the rest of the game, and it cannot be lost. The player 
places the Power tile in front of them so everyone can see it.
To buy the Power tile Spying (Sapphire Power level 3), a player must 
control a Sapphire Pyramid of level 3 or 4 and pay its 3 PP cost.
Effects
Power tile effects become active when the Buy a Power Tile 
Action ends. However, some of them will only trigger during a 
specific Phase, denoted on each Power tile (eg. Battle Powers, 
Night Phase Powers).
Creatures
Immediately after a player acquires a Creature tile, or any time 
during their turn a Creature is in their supply, that player may 
place it into one of their Districts where they have a Troop (see 
4 - Glossary). Otherwise, the Creature is placed on its Power tile 
in their supply.
Before playing an Action token, a player may exchange a Creature 
from their supply with one in their Districts. If a Creature is no 
longer tied to a Troop, it must go back to the player’s supply.
A Creature is not a Unit but must be tied to a Troop:
• It does not count against the Troop limit (5 Units max), but 
you cannot have more than one Creature in each Troop.
• In Battle, only the Creature’s bonuses are added to the tied 
Troop, it does not add an additional +1 Strength (as it is not a 
Unit in the Troop).
• If a Creature is no longer tied to a Troop, it must go back to 
the player’s supply.
A player must spend X PP to recruit X Units, taking the recruited 
Units from their supply and placing them in 1, 2, or 3 Districts of 
their City.
Players can only recruit into the Districts of their own City. Even 
if a player controls a District in an opponent’s City, they cannot 
recruit in it.
If a player recruits into one of their Districts controlled by an opponent, 
it immediately triggers a Battle in which the player is the attacker.
If a player recruits into multiple Districts controlled by an opponent, 
the player chooses in which order to resolve these Battles.
(2 + 3 )
lvl. 1
 lvl. 2
lvl. 2 + lvl. 3
 lvl. 4

+
A player moves 1 of their Troops up to its Movement value. A 
Troop’s Movement value is always calculated at the beginning of 
a Move action. 
The Movement value for a Troop is a combination of 1 Land move 
and 1 Teleportation.
A player can play a DI card with a Move icon during their Move 
action.
During a Move action a player may:
• Use each kind of move (Land move and Teleportation).
• Move only a part of their Troop and leave some Units behind.
• Add Units to their Troop that are in spaces their Troop passes 
through.
Teleportation
A player can spend 2 PP to teleport one of their Troops from a 
District with a Pyramid (in their City or an opponent’s) to a space 
containing an Obelisk.
During the same Move action, a Troop can never teleport more than 
once.
Note: When a player teleports a Troop, its Movement value 
is not used.
Land Move
A player must spend 1 Land move to move 1 of their Troops to a 
directly adjacent zone or between 2 Harbors over the Nile.
 
Harbors:
 
Harbors allow players to spend 1 Land move to move from 1 
Harbor to another Harbor with the following restrictions:
• Military Harbor (red): A player can move a Troop from a Military 
Harbor to any Trading Harbor or the Military Harbor in front of 
their City.
• Trading Harbor (blue): A player can move a Troop from a Trading 
Harbor into any other Trading Harbor or the Military Harbor in 
front of their City.
Walls:
All City Districts are surrounded by Walls. A player’s Troop can 
only enter a District in an opponent’s City if it starts a Move 
action in a zone adjacent to that District and its Walls. 
A player can only move into one opponent’s District during a 
single Move action.
Triggering a Battle:
Whenever a player’s Troop enters a space containing an opponent’s 
Troop their Move action ends, and a Battle is immediately triggered.
Note: At the end of a move, and any Battle that may 
have occurred, if a player controls a new Temple or level 
4 Pyramid, they take the corresponding Temporary FP, 
wherever it is. 
To control a Temple or an opponent’s Pyramid, the player 
must have a Troop in the same zone.
If a player ever moves out of an opponent’s District with 
a level 4 Pyramid, leaving it empty after controlling it, 
they must return the Temporary FP to that player.
If a player ever moves out of a Temple zone, leaving it 
empty after controlling it, they must return the Temporary 
FP to the supply.
Claire would like to move her Troop from her City to the Nile east 
bank from a distance of 3 zones.
She has 2 options:
A. She may teleport her Troop by spending 2 PP to place her Troop 
directly in the Temple zone.
B. She may only do so using Land moves if her Troop is able to 
make 3 Land moves.
A way to do this is to have the «Priest of Mafdet» Power tile and 
the «Deep Desert Snake» Creature tied to this Troop, which would 
allow it to make 3 land moves.
(2 )

3.5 Battle
The attacker is the player whose action triggers the Battle, and 
their opponent is the defender. The Battle only involves these 
two players therefore no other player will be able to play DI cards 
during this Battle.
When effects would resolve at the same time, the attacker’s effects 
are resolved first followed by those of the defender.
Resolve the following steps in order, even if a player no longer has 
a Troop in the battle:
3.5.1 War Council
3.5.2 Confrontation
3.5.5 Rewards
3.5.6 Loser’s Aftermath
3.5.7 Winner’s Aftermath
The attacker and defender each choose 2 Battle cards from their 
hand:
• The first Battle card is discarded facedown on the table and will 
never be revealed.
• The second Battle card will be played during the Battle and kept 
in hand.
The attacker and defender may add DI cards with a Battle icon to 
their in-hand Battle card by hiding them under it. This is the only 
time you can play DI cards during the Battle. A player can only play 
DI cards with a cost that they have enough PP to pay.
A player may tell their opponent they have played DI cards, but 
need not be truthful. Players also do not need to admit to playing 
DI cards, even if asked.
When each player has finished selecting their cards, they 
simultaneously reveal them and spend the required PP.
The player who has the most Strength is the winner.
In the case of a tie, the defender is the winner.
The Strength of each player in the Battle is the sum of:
• The number of Units they have in the Battle.
• The Strength value of their played Battle card.
• The Strength bonus provided by their Power tiles.
• The Strength bonus provided by a Creature tied to their Troop 
in Battle.
• The Strength bonus provided by the DI cards they played. 
• A +1 Strength bonus if the Battle occurs in a District of their City.
Each Battle card has a Damage value, Unblockable damage value, and/
or a Defense value. These values can be modified by DI cards, Creatures 
in this Battle, and Powers.
1) Each player in the Battle loses as many Units from their Troop 
equal to the total Unblockable damage value their opponent has.
2) Each player in the Battle then loses as many Units from their 
Troop equal to the total Damage value their opponent has, 
minus their own Defense value. 
If the winner loses their Troop, they are still considered to be the 
winner, even if the loser still has a Troop in the zone where the 
Battle occurred.
1) If the attacker is the winner and they still have a Troop in the zone 
where the Battle occurred, they gain 1 Battle FP.
2) If the defender is the winner, they gain 1 Veteran token.
3) Each player involved who did not gain any FP during this Reward 
step now gains 1 Veteran token also. This means if the defender is 
the winner, they gain a second veteran token.
The loser chooses to recall their Troop or retreat. 
If the winner no longer has a Troop remaining in the zone, the loser 
cannot retreat.
Recall
A player may recall their Troop, returning all of their remaining 
Units in the zone to their supply. The player gains PP equal to the 
number of Units returned to their supply in this way minus 1.
Retreat
If the winner has a Troop remaining in the zone, the loser may 
choose to retreat. If the loser retreats, the winner chooses an 
adjacent free zone where they move the losing Troop. This is not a 
Move action. They cannot choose a District from a City that is not 
the loser’s City. If no zone is available, the loser cannot retreat and 
must recall their Troop.
The winner now decides if they wish to recall their Troop or have 
it stay in the zone. If the winner chooses to recall their Troop, they 
follow the same rules for the loser recalling their Troop.
+ + 21

3.6 Night Phase
Jacques moves his Troop to a Temple controlled by Guillaume’s 
Troop.
• Jacques is the attacker.
Troop: 5 Units.
Powers:
 * Charge! (+1 Strength when attacking),
 * Blade of Neith (+1 Strength in Battle).
He has 7 Strength (5+1+1).
• Guillaume is the defender.
Troop: 4 Units.
Powers:
 * Creature: Ancestral Elephant (+1 Strength to its tied Troop).
He has 5 Strength (4+1).
Both players secretly choose 2 Battle cards: the first Battle card is 
discarded facedown and the other is kept in hand to be played in 
the Battle.
• Jacques keeps his Battle card: 3 Strength, and 2 Damage. He does 
not play any DI cards.
• Guillaume keeps his Battle card: 2 Strength, and 2 Defense. He 
adds 2 DI cards which he hides under his Battle card: Bronze 
Wall, and War Fury.
Both players simultaneously show their cards and declare their 
total Strength value:
• Jacques’ Strength: 10 (7+3 from his Battle card),
• Guillaume’s Strength: 9 (5+2 from his Battle card +2 from his DI 
card, for which he has to spend 1 PP). 
Jacques is the winner. 
Casualties:
• Jacques inflicts 2 Damage to Guillaume’s Troop, who has 4 
Defense (his Combat card + Ancestral Elephant + Bronze Wall DI 
card). 
• Guillaume does not lose any Units nor does he inflict any 
Damage.
• As Jacques is the winner, and was the attacker, and still has a 
Troop on the space, he gains 1 Battle FP.
• Guillaume gains 1 Veteran token as he is the loser.
Each player discards the Battle card they played and resolved 
faceup. The Battle cards discarded during the War Council step 
are left facedown and not revealed.
If a player has discarded all their Battle cards, they immediately 
take all of their Battle cards back to their hand. DI cards played 
during the Battle are discarded faceup near the DI deck.
Resolve the following steps in order:
Offering
The player that controls The Sanctuary of All Gods may remove 2 
Units from that Troop to gain 1 Divine FP.
Delta Temple control
The player that controls the Delta Temple may remove 1 Unit from 
that Troop to gain 5 PP.
Temple control
Each player that controls at least 2 Temples gains 1 Divine FP.
Adoration
Each player gains the number of PP shown on the Temples they 
control (other than the Delta Temple)
Prayers
Each player gains 2 PP and can discard X Veteran tokens to earn 
X PP.
Divine Intervention 
In turn order, each player draws 1 DI card and may discard 
Veteran tokens to draw 1 DI card for each.
Conscription
In turn order, each player may discard X Veteran tokens to place X 
Units in free Districts of their City. 
The player then discards any remaining Veteran tokens they have.
Awakening
Each player takes back their Action tokens and places them into 
their supply.
Destiny
Move the Order markers below their current space on the Turn 
Order track. 
Starting with the player that has the fewest FP, then in ascending 
FP order, each player chooses their position on the Turn Order 
track by placing their Order marker on an empty space. 
In case of a tie for FP, the tied player whose Order marker was 
leftmost on the Order track during the previous round chooses 
first and so on.
3.5.8 Battle Ending
+ + 21
• Guillaume chooses to recall his Troop: he recalls 4 Units, gains 3 
PP and puts his Creature in his supply.
• Jacques could also recall his Troop, but he prefers to leave it in 
the zone where the battle occurred.
• Played cards are put in their respective discard piles.

4.1 Index
Power tiles
Power tiles are divided into 4 families corresponding to the 4 
different Pyramid colors. Each family is split into 4 levels, with 4 
tiles from each level, meaning 16 Power tiles within each family 
(Ruby: Strength and Movement, Sapphire: Defense and Recruitment, 
Diamond: Prayer Points and DI cards, Onyx: Strength and Defense).
Prayer Points (PP) and Prayer Points track
The Prayer Points icon is an ankh , and are the central resource of 
the game you spend to trigger different actions.
For each PP you gain, move your Prayer token 1 space to the right on 
your PP track.
For each PP you spend, move your Prayer token 1 space to the left on 
your PP track.
You can never have more than 11 PP.
Controlling a zone
A player controls a zone other than a District in their City if only 
they have a Troop in it. A player controls a District of their City if 
there is no opposing Troop in it. Immediately when a player has no 
Troop in an opponent’s District with a level 4 Pyramid or a Temple, 
they give back the corresponding Temporary FP.
Free zone
A zone is considered free for a player if no opposing Troop is in it, 
allowing the player to place a troop in this zone without triggering 
a Battle. As a reminder, the player must still conform to the Troop 
limit rule and any other restrictions.
Units and Troops
All Units belonging to a player in a zone form a Troop. A Troop can 
contain 5 Units at most. This is known as the Troop limit. A Creature 
tied to a Troop does not count towards this limit.
Important!
When moving, a Troop may temporarily exceed the Troop limit (5 
Units) provided the Troop limit is complied with at the end of the 
Move action for each Troop on the board. 
Likewise, more than one Creature may temporarily be in the same 
zone provided the Creature limit (1 Creature per Troop) is followed at 
the end of the Move action.
When Units are removed from the board, for any reason, they go 
back to their owner’s supply.
Cards
Hand size is unlimited. The number of each kind of card that a player 
has in their hand is public knowledge, but the cards themselves are 
kept secret. 
Revealed Battle card discard piles and DI cards discard pile are public 
to all players.
Whenever the DI deck is empty, shuffle the DI discard pile to create 
a new DI deck.
To play a DI card, pay its cost in PP during the Phase corresponding 
to its icon.
Battle (page 9)
3.5 Battle
Day Phase (page 6)
3.2 Day Phase
Damage (page 9)
Defense (page 9)
District (page 8, 9, 11)
Free Zone (page 11)
Land move (page 8)
Night Phase (page 10)
3.6 Night Phase
Military Harbor (page 8)
Round (page 5)
3.1 Introduction
Strength (page 9)
Teleportation (page 8)
Trading harbor (page 8)
Troop (page 11)
Unblockable damage (page 9)
Winner (page 9)
Zone (page 2, 3)
4- GLOSSARY

TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDITS
Designer : 
Jacques Bariot and Guillaume Montiage
Illustrator : 
Pierre Santamaria, Pascal Quidault, Emile Denis and Dimitri Bielak
Game development : 
David Bertolo
Graphic design : 
Anthony Questel, Chris Byer, Camille Durand - Kriegel and Denis 
Hervouet
Special thanks :
We would like to thank all those who have been involved in making 
this project a success.
First of all, those who took their time to test the game, criticize it, make 
it evolve, and thus improve it. Among these people, too numerous 
to mention here, we would like to thank our most faithful team of 
Players: Claire, Stella, Etienne, Pierre, Fred, Olivier, Ian, and Will.
Then, a big thank you to the «Matagang» of the Matagot editions, for its 
involvement: to Magali, Antoine, Anthony, Pierre, Denis, Camille, Valeria, 
Marie, Clara, Sabrina, Chris&Chris, Raphaël Biolluz, and Zongxiu, of 
course, but more specifically to Arnaud and David for all the work done.
But also, a big thank you to the whole community present on 
BoardGameGeek, Tric Trac, Kickstater, Facebook and Instagram 
for all your feedback, your support and your precious help in the 
realization of this project.
Finally, a big thank you to all the players who chose to trust this project 
via crowdfunding, and who made us experience so many strong emotions.
There is no doubt that the result will be exceptional...
Guillaume and Jacques
1 - COMPONENTS (Page 2)
1.2 Individual boards (Page 3)
1.3 Power tiles
1.4 Divine intervention cards
1.5 Battle cards
1.6 Pyramids level
2 - SETUP (Page 4)
2.1 Common Setup
2.2 Individual Setup (Page 5)
2.3 Before starting to play
3 - GAMEPLAY (Page 6)
3.1 - Introduction
3.2 - Day Phase
3.3 - End of game
3.4 - Actions
3.5 - Battle (Page 9)
3.6 - Night Phase (Page 10)
4 - GLOSSARY (Page 11)