Front
Back
Kirsten Hiese
Welcome to the elephant festival in the Indian province of Kerala!
Colorfully decorated elephants parade around everywhere. The 
celebration is alive with color and music. As part of the festival, you 
want to make the most beautiful festival platform, displaying as many 
elephant symbols as possible. Round by round, you will expand your 
festival platform with tiles, placing one new tile per turn and moving 
one of your two elephant figures onto it from an adjacent tile. Your 
two elephant figures dictate where you can place a new tile. A tile can 
also be placed on top of another tile. Watch out for your rival platform 
builders. They can foil your plans by grabbing highly sought after tiles 
before you can get them.
Each player builds their own festival platform with colored tiles.
At the end of the game, you want to have only one continuous area of 
each color; otherwise, you will lose points. (Note: For your own color, 
you can have two areas.) Also each missing color subtracts points.
You will gain points for each elephant symbol on your festival platform. 
Some tiles have more than one symbol on them. The game ends when 
the bag of tiles is empty. The player with the most points wins.
For 2-5 players, ages 8 and up 
100 Game tiles (20 in each of the 5 colors)
	
	
 	
	
	
	
 Back
 1 Fabric bag	 	
 	 1 Scoring pad
10 Elephant figures (2 in each of the 5 colors) 
In addition you will need a pen or pencil, which is not included.	
-	 Each player gets 2 elephant figures and a start tile of the same 
color. With fewer than 5 players, place the unused elephant figures 
and unused start tiles back into the box.
-	 Each player places his or her start tile with the elephant symbol 
face up in front of them. Your start tile is the beginning of your 
festival platform.
-	 Each player puts his or her two elephant figures on his or her 
start tile.
-	 Depending on the number of players, you may have to remove a 
certain number of the 100 game tiles and place them back in 
the box:
-	 For 2 players, remove 20 random tiles. The tiles that are removed 
should not be the same color as either of the players’ colors!
-	 For 3 players, remove 10 random tiles. The tiles that are removed 
should not be the same color as any of the players’ colors!
-	 For 4 players, remove 4 random tiles. The tiles that are removed 
should not be the same color as any of the players’ colors!
-	 For 5 players, do not remove any tiles. You will play with all 100 
tiles.
-	 Place all of the tiles in play into the fabric bag. Place the bag in the 
center of the table.
-	 Set one score card from the scoring pad aside. You will not need it 
until the end of the game.
GAME OVERVIEW
GAME OBJECTIVE
GAME MATERIALS
GAME PREPARATION
5 Start tiles (1 in each of the 5 colors)
Example with 3 players: Blue, black, and red
10 random tiles that are not blue, black, or red are removed 
accordingly.
These 10 
tiles are 
removed
Example: Setup for five players
1/
/2
Front

The game is played over several rounds. The youngest player starts and is 
given the bag of tiles.
First, he or she draws the same number of tiles from the bag as the 
number of players. For example, if there are five players, the starting 
player draws five tiles from the bag. Lay the tiles that were drawn face 
up in the center of the table.
The first player must select one tile and place it orthogonally adjacent 
to his or her start tile, aligned with one of the start tile’s four sides. 
“Orthogonally adjacent” means lined up next to each other vertically or 
horizontally, not diagonally.
The player then moves one of their elephant figures from his or her 
start tile to the new tile. This ends the player’s turn. 
Now the player to the left of the starting player chooses from the 
remaining tiles. This player places the chosen tile adjacent to his or her 
start tile and moves one of his or her elephant figures onto the tile. 
This continues until the last player of the round takes the last tile and 
adds it to his or her platform. At this point, the round ends. 
The next round starts when the starting player passes the bag of tiles to 
the player to his or her left.
Next Rounds
The rounds continue in the same manner, with the player that has the bag 
of tiles pulling out as many tiles as players then placing them face up in the 
center of the table. The players then each choose a tile, place it adjacent to 
another tile, and move one of their elephants.
Passing
Two times during the game you have the ability to pass (in other words, 
to skip your turn). If you pass, you do not take any tiles from the 
center of the table. You lay one of your elephant figures on its 
side. If you have placed both of your elephant figures on their 
sides, you may not pass. When players pass, the unchosen tiles 
remain in the center of the table until the end of the round. Then 
at the end of the round the extra tiles are placed back in the box.
Important: You can still move an elephant figure from tile to tile as 
usual after it has been placed on its side. Laying the figures on their 
sides just helps keep track of the number of passes taken. 
GAME PLAY
OTHER RULES
Example: You are playing with four other players and have pulled 
these tiles out of the bag.
Example: The blue player chooses the black tile with three elephant 
symbols and places it next to her start tile. She then moves one of her 
elephant figures onto that tile.
Placement Rules
When it is your turn, choose 1 tile from the center of the 
table. You must place this tile orthogonally adjacent to one 
of the two tiles with your elephant figures on them. Then 
move the elephant figure onto the newly placed tile!
Example: Later in the game, the blue player has taken the 
green tile with two elephant symbols. She places the tile 
next to the black tile which has one of her blue elephant 
figures on it. She then move the elephant figure from the 
black tile to the new green tile.
Example: Later in the game, the blue player has chosen the green tile 
with three elephant symbols on it. She places it on top of the black tile 
with two elephant symbols. Then she moves her elephant onto the 
newly placed tile.
Note: Only 1 elephant figure can be on a tile at a time. The only 
exception is at the start of the game, when two elephants are on your 
start tile. Placing tiles on top of other tiles may enable you to reconnect 2 
separate areas, creating a single larger area of the same color.
Overlaying 
You can place a tile on top of an already-placed tile. You can do this 
multiple times. However, the tile must be placed adjacent to an elephant 
figure and the elephant figure must be placed onto the new tile.
Newly placed tile

The Tiles
Tile with 1, 2, or 3 elephant symbols
Tiles with elephant symbols get the same number of points as the 
number of elephants depicted on them; i.e. 1, 2, or 3 points.
Special tile with colored edge
These tiles have a second color along one edge. At the end of 
the game, if this edge is adjacent to a tile of the second color, 
you receive 5 points. There is no penalty if the colored edge 
is placed next to a non-matching color or no tile is adjacent to the 
edge. However, the tile still counts as a tile of the primary color and you 
may lose points if you have two separate areas of the same color.
Example: The blue tile with the black edge 
is adjacent to a black tile. So, the player 
would be awarded 5 points at the end of 
the game.
Example: The blue player has placed a special move-elephant-
figure tile on the lower right of her festival platform. The blue player 
then placed her elephant figure onto this tile. She then moves her 
second elephant figure from the green tile to the purple tile.
Note: The elephant 
figure depicted on this 
tile does not count as an 
elephant symbol and is 
therefore not worth any 
points at the end of the 
game.
Special tile: move elephant figure
If you add a move-elephant-figure tile to your festival platform 
and move your elephant figure onto it, you may immediately 
move either of your elephant figures to any tile.
Example: The blue player has placed a special move-tile tile at the 
bottom left of her festival platform and placed an elephant figure onto 
it. The blue player then moves the purple tile to another location. The 
blue player cannot move the tiles crossed out with black X’s because 
they are either a) surrounded by other tiles and would create a hole, b) 
an elephant figure is on the tile, or c) removing the tile would split the 
platform into two parts. The purple tile is placed such that it does not 
result in a split platform, hole, or diagonal-only connection.
Special tile: move tile
When the move-tile tile is added to your festival platform and 
you move an elephant figure onto it, you may immediately 
move a tile (or a whole stack of tiles) to another open spot 
on your platform. However, there must be no elephant figure on the tile 
or stack of tiles. You cannot move a tile or stack of tiles that is surrounded 
by tiles on all four sides. When moving a stack of tiles, the whole stack 
must be moved (you cannot move only the top tile) and the stack cannot 
be rearranged. You cannot place the moved tile(s) on top of another tile; 
only on an open spot, as defined by the regular tile placement rules. Also 
you cannot split your platform into two parts by moving the tile(s). There 
must be no hole or diagonal-only connection between tiles after moving.

The game ends when the bag is empty and you have finished the final 
round. Then, scoring begins. To simplify scoring, you can write your 
points in one of the columns on the score card and total them up.
Example: At the end of the game, the blue player has three red areas. 
So, she has to remove two of the red areas. The blue player decides, of 
course, to remove the areas that cost her the least points. So the blue 
player removes the three tiles in the extra areas and turns them over. 
Each tile scores -2 points. The blue player also has two areas of blue 
tiles. That is okay because that is the same color as the player’s color.
Scoring
Each player will score his or her own festival platform. First, remove your 
two elephant figures from the festival platform. Keep standing elephant 
figures standing and lying elephant figures on their sides. Check if you 
have one continuous area of each color. (For a special tile with a 
colored edge, use the primary color to determine the continuous areas, 
not the secondary color.) If you have more than one area of a certain 
color, choose one of the areas. Remove and turn over all the tiles and 
stacks of tiles from all other areas of that color. You decide which areas 
you want to count and which are removed. For each tile that you remove 
from your festival platform and flip over, you receive -2 points. For each 
tile in a stack that is removed, you receive -2 points. Place the tiles that 
you remove back into the box. It does not matter if your festival platform 
has been divided up into several parts by the removal of tiles at this 
point. All parts of your festival platform will still be counted.
Check that your festival platform has at least one tile of each color. For 
each missing color, you receive -5 points. For each elephant figure 
you did not lay on its side, you receive +1 point. For each special tile 
with a colored edge that is next to a tile of the correct color, you receive 
+5 points. For each color, count how many elephant symbols are on 
the tiles of your festival platform. For each elephant symbol, you receive 
+1 point. The elephant symbols on tiles that were built over in a stack 
do not count. Whoever has the most points wins the game. In the case 
of a tie, both players share the victory.
Exception: For your player color (the color of your elephant 
figures) you may have two areas of the same color! 
Note: Sometimes you cannot avoid having multiple areas of a 
color during the game. Don’t worry. This doesn’t necessarily mean 
you will lose.
END OF GAME
The Author: Kirsten Hiese was born in 1965 and is a professional 
florist. In 2004, she created her first children’s game. Since then she 
has published 16 games by various publishers. She lives with her 
husband and her three children in Porta Westfalica, Germany. Kerala 
is her first game with Kosmos Verlag.
Illustration and Graphics: Antje and Claus Stephan
Editing: Ralph Querfurth
English Edition Editing: Camille Duhamel, Ted McGuire
Kirsten Hiese and Kosmos thank all the test players and rule readers.
Example (cont.): At the end of the game the 
blue player gets the following points: -6 points 
for the red tiles that were removed. She has all 
five colors on her platform, so she does not lose 
points for that. She has one elephant figure 
still standing, so she receives +1 point. She has 
two tiles with a colored edge that are adjoined 
to the appropriate colors, so she receives +10 
points. In addition, she gets +6 points for the 
elephant symbols on the blue tiles, +11 points 
for the purple tiles, +3 points for the black tiles, 
+8 for the green tiles, and +4 for the elephant 
symbols on the red tiles. In total the blue 
player receives 37 points.
1/
-6
 -
 Blue   Purple   Red     Green Black
 Player Player Player Player Player
© 2016 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany.
Phone: +49 711 2191-0; Web: kosmos.de
© 2016 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, 
RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
Distributed in North America by Thames & 
Kosmos, LLC. Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872 
Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & 
Kosmos UK, LP. Goudhurst, Kent TN17 2QZ 
Phone: 01580 212000 
Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
692469-02-181116