Table of Contents
GAME INSTRUCTIONS
How the Game Works 
Let’s Hop Right In 
 Getting Started 
 
Card Information 
 
Setting Up The First Round 
Playing The Game 
Ending The Game 
Booster Decks 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
DISCLAIMER
All characters and events in this game – even those based on real people or characters as 
parody – are entirely fictional. Any resemblance to actual living persons is purely coincidental 
or is strictly for the purpose of satire. No actual bunnies were harmed in the making of this 
game or will be harmed by playing it.
All players in the game are referred to in the male gender. We are in no way negating or 
ignoring the vital importance of women in gaming and frankly, in our lives as both the mothers 
who bore us and the wives that support us. Absolutely no offense is meant or should be 
implied on any level of our menial XY existence, it was simply easier to compose the rules 
using only one gender reference. So please ladies, don’t get angry or hit us.

Hello and welcome to the wonderful world of Killer Bunnies®! On behalf of Creative Team 
Alpha and Playroom Entertainment, we would like to thank you for your purchase and assure 
you that no actual bunnies were harmed in any way during the creation or production of this 
game. The Quest for the Magic Carrot is the first of three Killer Bunnies® adventures and this is 
edition Zeta One of the rules.
How The Game Works
The basic strategy of the game is to keep as many bunnies alive as possible while eliminating 
your opponents’ bunnies. Of course all the other players are trying to do the same thing, which 
can get dreadfully vengeful, horribly nasty, hilariously messy, and just plain fun! While folks are 
trying to eliminate each other’s bunnies, each player is also trying to collect as many Carrots as 
possible. At the end of the game, one of the Carrots is revealed to be the Magic (or winning) 
Carrot and each game, the Magic Carrot will be different. Logically, the more Carrots that a 
player collects, the better his chances will be of winning the game. Collecting as many Carrots 
as possible is another basic strategy of the game.

CARROT CARD
CABBAGE CARD
WATER CARD
Let’s Hop Right In
GETTING STARTED
STEP #1: The game comes with three decks of cards. Unwrap the small cards first and take a 
look at them. You will see that there are three different kinds of small cards: Carrot Cards, 
Cabbage Cards and Water Cards. Shuffle each deck separately and place them on your table. 
We will return to these small cards in STEP #3.
STEP #2: Next, unwrap the large cards. The backs of these cards are Blue, Yellow, Orange or Gray.
Shuffle all of the Blue and Yellow cards together. You will probably want this initial shuffle to be 
a really good one to make sure that you have a proper mix of the cards. The Blue and Yellow 
cards together will form the Draw Pile and should be placed face down on your table where 
everyone can reach it.
STEP #3: The Orange cards are the Carrots that each player will try to collect in order to win 
the game. These 12 cards should be placed face up on your table and close to the decks of 
small cards.
The Gray card is the Kaballa’s Market Starter Card. The Kaballa’s Market Starter Card lists the 
prices of Cabbage Cards, Water Cards and Carrots that players may purchase during the 
game. (For more details on Kaballa’s Market, please see the Bunny Bits.)
(Gray Card)
LARGE CARROT CARD
(Orange Cards)
SINSTER BUNNY
(Blue & Yellow Cards) 

CABBAGE CARDS
WATER CARDS
DRAW PILE
(Blue and Yellow Cards)
CARROT CARDS
KABALLA’S MARKET
DICE
The game also comes with six fancy dodecahedral dice. (Please, don’t be too impressed, we 
had to look up the word dodecahedral to write this book!) These 12-sided dice are used with 
many of the cards during the game. For now though, just lay them out near the Draw Pile.
 
 Hey! What happened to the small Carrot Cards? You may have noticed that the 
 
 small Carrot Cards are not in the picture above. Here’s why: the small Carrot Cards 
 
 will not be used until the end of the game. So for now, we suggest that you set them 
off the table and in a place where no one is likely to look at them or knock them over. We will 
talk about these small Carrot Cards again a bit later.
STEP #4: Deal each player seven cards from the Draw Pile. Throughout the game each player 
will always have seven cards.
There are five types of Killer Bunnies® cards; RUN, SPECIAL, VERY SPECIAL, PLAY 
IMMEDIATELY and KABALLA DOLLA. Most cards have the type title printed in the top window 
of the card and a matching color bullet in the top left corner. KABALLA DOLLA cards have big 
numbers in the center of the cards. Take a minute to make sure you know the type of each of 
your seven cards.
May be used once by a player 
to take two Water Cards 
SPECIAL 
May be used once by a player to re-use 
any of his weapons a second time 
during the same turn of play before it is 
discarded. May be used at any time! 
One of your bunnies dies at the 
hands of an overzealous human 
with a power hedge clipper. 
PLAY IMMEDIATELY 

CARD INFORMATION
KABALLA DOLLA cards: The cards with the big numbers in the center 
are KABALLA DOLLA cards. We like to call them the ‘Bunny Money’. 
When you draw a KABALLA DOLLA card you must place it face up in 
front of you and draw another card. KABALLA DOLLA cards cannot be 
kept in your hand. If any player has one, or several KABALLA DOLLA 
cards in their hand right now, then place these cards down on the table 
and draw cards. If you get more KABALLA DOLLA cards, then keep 
placing them down and drawing cards.
 
 Hey! What do I do if I draw a KABALLA DOLLA card during the game? If you 
 
 draw a KABALLA DOLLA card during the game, then you must immediately place it 
 
 down on the table and draw another card.
All of the Bunny Money that you have collected is yours to keep or spend at Kaballa’s Market. 
We’ll tell you why buying Cabbage Cards and Water Cards is helpful a bit later. You already 
know why buying Carrots is a good idea, you’ll need Carrots to win the game!
PLAY IMMEDIATELY cards: When a player draws a PLAY IMMEDIATELY 
card he must announce it by stopping the game and playing the card 
immediately. All PLAY IMMEDIATELY cards in this Starter Deck are 
Terrible Misfortune cards, which means that if the player who drew the 
card has a bunny in play it will have to die (discarded). However, at the 
start of the game there are no bunnies in play. All PLAY IMMEDIATELY 
cards held by players before the game starts are discarded and cards are 
drawn. Since our first game has not started yet, you might want to take a minute 
to discard all of your PLAY IMMEDIATELY cards now. If you discarded one, then you will need 
to draw a replacement card.
 
 Check! Each player should be holding seven cards. The types of these cards 
 
 should be only RUN, SPECIAL or VERY SPECIAL. We will explain the differences 
 
 between these types of cards a bit later. But for now, let’s get set up for the first 
round of play.
(For more details on Card Information, please see the Bunny Bits.)
SETTING UP THE FIRST ROUND
During the game, players will be asked to choose which cards they will play two rounds in 
advance. This requires a bit of planning. But don’t worry, we’re going to walk you through it.
The first card that you will want to play is a bunny card. You can recognize a ‘bunny card’ by the 
names of the bunnies: Congenial, Gleeful, Lumbering, Sinister and Timid. There are twenty-five 
bunnies (five different colors and five different kinds), so hopefully everyone should have a 
bunny at the start of the game.
One of your bunnies is smothered 
in barbecue sauce, bound to a 
PLAY IMMEDIATELY 

TOP RUN CARD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAVED MONEY 
(Some players may have 
money and some may not) 
 
 Hey! What if I was unlucky and didn’t get a bunny card? Well, let’s just say (for 
 
 the first time you play the game) that if you did not get a bunny card in your first draw 
 
 of seven cards, then you may quietly sift through the Draw Pile and exchange one of 
your cards for a bunny card. Later, we’ll give you a few suggestions for starting the game 
without a bunny. (For more details on starting a game without a bunny, please see the Bunny Bits.)
Now that everyone has a bunny (wink, wink), place it face down on the table in front of you. This 
will be the first card that you will play. It is called the TOP RUN card.
Next you will have to pick the second card that you will play. You may choose any card in your 
hand. Here are a few good choices:
1) Choose A Carrot: These cards allow a player to take one (or two) Carrots from the market. 
Remember that the more Carrots you have at the end of the game, the better your chances 
will be to win.
2) Weapon: These cards allow you to attempt to kill an opponent’s bunny right away.
3) Feed The Bunny: These cards also allow you to attempt to kill an opponent’s bunny, but 
more slowly. The opponent may, however, be able to buy Cabbage and Water to save his 
bunny.
Many of the cards are very unique. Read carefully to see what each card will do.
 
 Hey! What’s that rectangular box on the left side of every 
 
 card mean? Why is it Pink on some cards? When the 
 
 rectangular box on a card is Pink it means that you must 
have a bunny in play first before you can use the card. It is the reason 
that everyone wanted to play a bunny card first so that everyone would 
have the freedom to play any other card from their hand second.
After you have chosen your second card to play, place it face down on the table below the first 
one. This will be your BOTTOM RUN card.
player to choose a Carro
f

TOP RUN CARD 
BOTTOM RUN CARD 
SAVED MONEY 
(Some players may have 
money and some may not) 
 
Check! Each player should have two cards placed face down on the table that they
 
will use during the first and second rounds of play. All KABALLA DOLLA cards are 
 
on the table face up and all PLAY IMMEDIATELY cards have been discarded. Finally, 
each player should have five cards in their hand. These five cards may be RUN, SPECIAL and 
VERY SPECIAL only. Take a look at the picture to see an example of a table with four players.
Once you have placed your cards down in the TOP and BOTTOM RUN positions you may not 
change them. If you forget which cards you put down you are allowed to take a quick peek!

must roll higher than 2 to survive.
May be used once by a player to counteract
any weapon, abduction or Roaming Red Run
card or to eliminate a Defector, all Barriers,
The Mystery Urn, Rainbo, Low Jack Kojak,
or Identity Crisis. May also be used to
prevent the draw of the Winning Zodiac 
sign. May be used at any time!
May be given to any player forcing
him to direct his next weapon
onto one of his own bunnies.
must feed the amounts shown by
the end of its next turn or die.
May be placed under any bunny.
Lucky Clover Triple lowers
the level of any weapon by three.
must roll higher than 2 to survive.
May be used once by a player to counteract
any weapon, abduction or Roaming Red Run
card or to eliminate a Defector, all Barriers,
The Mystery Urn, Rainbo, Low Jack Kojak,
or Identity Crisis. May also be used to
prevent the draw of the Winning Zodiac 
sign. May be used at any time!
May be given to any player forcing
him to direct his next weapon
onto one of his own bunnies.
must feed the amounts shown by
the end of its next turn or die.
May be placed under any bunny.
Lucky Clover Triple lowers
the level of any weapon by three.
Playing The Game
Determine with a roll of the dice which player will go first. The first player will follow these four 
steps (FLIP, SLIDE, DRAW, REPLACE):
1) Flip over the TOP RUN card.
2) Slide the BOTTOM RUN card up to the TOP RUN card position.
3) Draw a replacement card from the Draw Pile.
4) Replace the BOTTOM RUN card with a card from your hand.

Each player will take a turn clockwise around the table going through the four steps (FLIP, 
SLIDE, DRAW, REPLACE). At the end of a few rounds the table may look something like this:
As you can see, all of the bunnies that are ‘in play’ form what we will call The Bunny Circle.
During the first round of play almost everyone plays a bunny, if they have one. However, as the 
game continues, each player will choose his own unique strategy.
(For more choices instead of flipping over your TOP RUN card, please see “A Turn, A Round” 
in the Bunny Bits.)
The game continues with each player playing one card each round. Folks will blissfully collect 
Carrots, and vengefully kill bunnies over and over again using Weapon cards, Feed The Bunny 
cards, etc. The Bunny Bits gives you more information about these (and other) cards. Just 
don’t forget to laugh, growl, carry on, and exhibit both hilarity and general mayhem. Also, it 
may not be a bad idea to have a pretty decent sense of humor.
 
 Hey! When do I use the fancy dice? Take a look on any 
 
 of the cards and you’ll notice eight small squares on the right 
 
 border. When these squares are filled in, the colors of the 
squares indicate which dice you will need in order to play the card.
SPECIAL
Presto
THE BUNNY CIRCLE

Ending The Game
 
 Hey! When is the game over? The game is over when the last Carrot is chosen 
 
 or purchased from the market. If a player used his TOP RUN card to finish the 
 
 game, then he does not draw a replacement card.
If a player does not have at least one bunny in The Bunny Circle at the end of the game, then 
he cannot win the game.
If a player does not have at least one bunny in The Bunny Circle at the end of the game, then 
he cannot win the game. This fact is so important, that we printed it twice!
The need to keep at least one bunny ‘alive’ in The Bunny Circle is part of the basic strategy of 
Killer Bunnies®. It is why players try to eliminate their opponent’s bunnies before the end of the 
game. If a player has no bunnies in The Bunny Circle when the game ends, then he must give 
all of his Carrots away to the player that has at least one bunny in The Bunny Circle and the 
most KABALLA DOLLA saved.
To determine the winner, retrieve the small deck of Carrot Cards that you put aside at the start 
of the game. The last card in the deck (the bottom card) is the Magic Carrot for this particular 
game and the player holding the Carrot with the matching picture is the winner. Just for fun, go 
through the small deck of Carrot Cards one card at a time from the top to the bottom. This 
builds the suspense. Try it. It’s fun!
And Then ...
We hope that you will enjoy your game of Killer Bunnies® and the Quest for the Magic Carrot. 
You may have noticed another booklet included in your game called Bunny Bits. This book 
gives you vital information about playing the game and more specific details about the cards. 
Please take the time to read it now. Thank you so much for playing our game.

Booster Decks
Killer Bunnies® is a non-collectable expandable card game. Each booster deck adds 55 cards to 
your existing deck and each changes the game dynamic in different and unique ways. We have 
to warn you though, as the game expands, it will become more complex and hence, more fun! 
ONE BOOSTER DECK AT A TIME
When adding new cards to your Killer Bunnies® game, try adding only one booster deck at a 
time. Each booster deck contains 55 cards, unique rules and game mechanics that are easier 
to understand in smaller doses. We highly recommend playing a few games with each new 
booster color before adding the next deck.
ADDING BOOSTER DECKS IN ORDER 
All Booster Decks are compatible with the Blue Starter Deck. However, Killer Bunnies plays 
best when the Booster Decks are added in sequential order.
The Killer Bunnies Deck order is:
If you do play with non-sequential Booster Decks and a card is drawn during play that refers to 
another card that does not exist in your Killer Bunnies deck, then a player may discard it and 
draw a new card.
01: QUEST Blue Starter Deck
02: QUEST Yellow Booster Deck
03: QUEST Red Booster Deck
04: QUEST Violet Booster Deck
05: QUEST Orange Booster Deck
06: QUEST Green Booster Deck
07: QUEST Twilight White Booster Deck
08: QUEST Stainless Steel Booster Deck
09: QUEST Perfectly Pink Booster Deck
10: QUEST Wacky Khaki Booster Deck
11: QUEST Ominous Onxy Booster Deck
12: QUEST Chocolate Booster Deck
13: CONQUEST Blue Starter Deck
14: CONQUEST Yellow Booster Deck
15: CONQUEST Red Booster Deck
16: CONQUEST Violet Booster Deck
17: QUEST Fantastic Booster Deck
18: QUEST Caramel Swirl Booster Deck
© 2017 Ultra PRO International LLC. Killer Bunnies® is a trademark of 
Jeﬀrey Neil Bellinger, used under license. All rights reserved.
AW20314