A game for 2 - 4 players aged 8 years and ups
For your first game, we recommend our suggested setup on page 8 of these rules.

 Spielablauf
 
 
A game by Donald X. Vaccarino
for 2 - 4 players aged 8 years and up
By skillful building of settlements players create their 
own kingdoms, aiming to earn the most gold at the end 
of the game. 
The 3 Kingdom Builder cards specify the conditions 
which must be met in order to earn the desired gold. 
• 8 different game board sections
• 28 location tiles
• 160 settlements - 40 of each player color
• 4 gold markers 
 
 • 1 start player tile
1 of each player color
• 25 terrain cards
• 10 different Kingdom Builder cards
Only 3 of these cards are used in a game of Kingdom 
Builder. They specify the conditions for earning gold.
• 8 summary cards of location tiles - pictograms of extra 
actions
• 1 rules booklet
Front: Landscape composed of 
100 terrain hexes.
Grass
Castle
2x oracle
2x harbor
5x Grass
There is a detailed description of the Kingdom Builder cards on 
page 5 of these rules (see Kingdom Builder cards).
5x Flower field 5x Forest
5x Canyon 
5x Desert
4x paddock
4x barn
4x oasis
4x farm
4x tavern
4x tower
Mountain
Water
8 different locations
Canyon
Desert
Flower field
Forest
Back: Gold score track for final 
evaluation.
There are 9 different terrain types on each front side:
5 terrain types suitable for building
4 terrain types not suitable for building
Game components
Object of the game

 
 
2. Summary of location tiles
5. Kingdom Builder cards 
4. Terrain cards
1. Game board pieces
1. Select any 4 of the 8 game board sections and assemble them to a 
rectangular game board as shown in the example below.
2. Place four summaries of location tiles 
next to the game board 
pieces matching the 
location hexes.
3. Place 2 corresponding 
location tiles on each 
location hex. 
4. Shuffle all terrain cards and 
keep them within easy reach as 
face down draw pile.
5. Shuffle the Kingdom Builder 
cards, then randomly draw 
3 cards and place them next to 
the game board, face up. 
Distribution of game components
Give each player in their player color:
All 40 settlements,
this is their personal supply.
Additionally, each player draws one terrain card from the draw pile 
and keeps it hidden from the other players on their hand.
Give the start player tile to the oldest player; they will perform the 
first turn of the game.
1 gold marker
Turn one of the unused game board sections over to its back side and place it next to the game board. 
Then, each player places their gold marker on the black space of the gold score track. 
Put any game components not used in this game back into the game box.
Players take their turns in clockwise direction, beginning with the start player. The game lasts for several rounds.
Each player performs their turn the following way:
The active player plays their terrain card face up in front 
of themselves and subsequently builds their settlements.
3. Location tiles
Setup
Sequence of play

 
 
Whenever a player builds a settlement next to a location 
hex, they seize immediately one of these location tiles, 
if available. Then, they place this tile in front of them-
selves, picture side face up and can use this extra action 
from their next turn on.
A player may seize only one location tile from a given 
location.
The player keeps a location tile as long as at least one 
of their settlements is adjacent to the corresponding 
 location. If they move their last settlement away from 
such a location by using an extra action, they must 
 discard this location tile and remove it from the game.
At the end of the game, players will earn 3 gold for each 
castle hex if they have built at least one of their own 
settlements next to it.
Mandatory action
During their turn, the player must build 3 settlements 
from their personal supply on unoccupied hexes of the 
same terrain type as their played card, strictly obeying 
the building rules (see page 4). 
Extra action
In the course of the game players will collect location 
tiles.
Location tiles grant extra actions and players can per-
form each extra action once during their turn.
A player may perform each single extra action before or 
after their mandatory action.
The extra actions allow building additional settlements 
or even moving existing settlements.
This illustration shows an example of a mandatory action.
If there is no more location tile on a location, the player does not 
receive any location tile.
Players earn 3 gold only, 
even if they have built more 
than one settlements next to 
a castle hex. 
Picture side
Terrain card
Player’s 
supply
= 3 gold
In order to indicate that they have performed an extra action the 
player turns their corresponding location tile over to its picture 
side. After they have finished their turn, they flip the tiles back to 
their pictogram side.
Please note: The mandatory action must be performed and the 
3 settlements must be built successively one after the other.
Note: Shuffle the discard pile and 
use it as new draw pile once the 
draw pile is exhausted.
Please note: A player may only have 2 identical location tiles 
if they have build a settlement next to both identical location 
hexes of that game board section.
Pictogram side
After a player has performed their mandatory action and 
does not want to perform any extra actions or cannot do 
so, they put their terrain card on the discard pile and 
draw a new card from the draw pile, keeping it hidden on 
their hand. 
Player’s supply
Location hex and location tile
Castle hex

 
 
Note: A terrain space is the 
equivalent of exactly one hex of a 
game board section.
1.
Exactly one settlement may be built on any one eligible 
terrain space.
2.
Settlements may be built only on hexes of these terrain 
types: Grass, canyon, desert, flower field, and forest.
3.
Always, a player must build each new settlement adjacent 
to at least one of their own existing settlements, if 
 possible.
If this is not possible, the player must (if mandatory 
action) or may (if extra action) choose a new unoccupied 
hex where they can build their settlement. There are 
several options, depending on the kind of the player’s 
action:
a) If this is the player’s mandatory action or an extra 
oracle or barn action they must choose a hex of the 
same terrain type as their played terrain card.
b) If this is the player’s extra oasis, farm or harbor 
action, they must choose a hex of that terrain type as 
required by this location tile.
c) If this is the player’s extra tower action the player may 
choose any suitable hex at the edge of the game board.
The game ends when one player has built the last settle-
ment from their personal supply. However, the current 
game round is still completed; the player on the right of 
the start player is the last player to perform their turn.
Now each player calculates the amount of gold they have 
earned and records their total on the gold score track.
• The 3 Kingdom Builder cards are evaluated one after 
the other for each player, beginning with the start player.
• Then, each player calculates the amount of gold earned 
by their settlements next to castle hexes (3 gold per castle 
hex) and adds it to their score.
The player who has earned the most gold is the winner 
of the game. In case of a tie for the most gold, the tied 
players share the victory.
Grass
Canyon
Desert
Mandatory 
action
This illustration is an example of 2 building options for the new 
settlement.
This illustration is an example of a mandatory action where the 
player cannot build next to their own settlement.
Flower field
Forest
Copyright 2011 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved
Exception: If the rare case should occur that there is no eligible 
hex at the beginning of a player’s turn or during their turn, i. e. 
there is no hex matching the type of their played terrain card on 
which they could build a settlement, the player draws a new ter-
rain card immediately. The useless terrain card is removed from 
the game. If necessary, the player repeats drawing a new card 
until they draw a suitable card. 
Building rules – These rules apply to each single settlement (of three) built as mandatory action and as extra action
End of the game and final scoring

 
4x
10x
Note: If there is the same number of a player’s 
fewest settlements in more than one sector, they 
earn gold for one sector only. In order to qualify 
as a “Farmer” a player must have built at least 
1 settlement in each sector.
The fewest settlements of 
Orange are in the sector 
bottom right. They earn 12 
gold (4x3).
Separate Evaluation for each player:
Note: If several players tie for the most 
settlements all tied players earn 12 gold. 
Likewise, tied players for the second most 
settlements earn 6 gold each.
Note: If a player has built the same 
 maximum number of settlements on more 
than one horizontal lines they earn gold for 
one line only.
Note: Settlement area = cluster of adjacent 
settlements belonging to one player.
Note: Settlement area = cluster of adjacent 
settlements belonging to one player.
Note – Extra harbor action: 
The „Fishermen“ card does not generate 
gold for settlements on water hexes.
6 gold
12 gold
8x
8x
2x
12 gold
6 gold
3 gold
Kingdom Builder cards

 
Extra action: Build one additional settlement from your personal supply.
Extra action: Move one of your existing settlements.
Extra location tile actions – Apply building rules as usual
Oracle
Build one settlement on a hex of the same terrain type as 
your played terrain card. Build adjacent if possible. 
Farm
Build one settlement on a grass hex. Build adjacent if possible.
Skip this action if there is not a single unoccupied grass hex on the 
game board.
Oasis
Build one settlement on a desert hex. Build adjacent if possible. 
Skip this action if there is not a single unoccupied desert hex on the 
game board.
Tavern
Build one settlement at one end of a line of at least 3 of your 
own settlements. The orientation of the line does not matter 
(horizontally or diagonally). The chosen hex must be suitable 
for building.
Tower
Build one settlement at the edge of the game board. Choose any 
of the 5 suitable terrain type hexes. Build adjacent if possible. 
Barn
Move any one of your existing settlements to a hex of the 
same terrain type as your played terrain card. Build adjacent 
if possible. 
Paddock
Move any one of your existing settlements two hexes in a straight line in any 
 direction (horizontally or diagonally) to an eligible hex. You may jump across 
any terrain type hex, even water, mountain, castle and location, and/or your own 
and other players’ settlements. The target hex must not necessarily be adjacent to 
one of your own settlements (building rule no. 3 does not apply in this case).
Harbor
Move any one of your existing settlements to a water hex. 
Build adjacent if possible. This is the only way to build settle-
ments on water hexes.

 
 
1.Combine the the 4 board sections that feature the tavern , the 
paddock , the oasis and the farm to form a rectangular 
game board, as shown below.
2.Place each location tile summary next 
to the game board 
section that features the 
corresponding locations.
3.Place 2 corresponding location 
tiles on each location hex.
4.Shuffle all terrain cards and 
keep them within easy reach as a 
face-down draw pile.
5.Place the 3 Kingdom Builder cards 
Fishermen, 
Knights, and 
Merchants next to 
the game board, 
face up.
All other steps of the game set-up remain unchanged.
1.You should build your first settlement next to a loca-
tion hex. 
This way you will gain a location tile that you can use 
starting with your next turn, which will give you more 
options for placing settlements on the game board.
For each terrain card, you have a choice of several 
 location hexes for your first settlements.
2.You should try to build your first 3 settlements adja-
cent to as few different terrain types as possible.
By building this way, you lessen the chance of being 
forced to build next to your own settlements, thereby 
allowing you to build in other sectors of the game 
board more quickly.
Some hints for your first settlements
Example: For his 2nd turn, Mats has a Canyon terrain card. Since 
the settlements he built on his 1st turn are not adjacent to a canyon, 
he may now start building in any canyon location. 
He builds a settlement next to the Oasis location hex.
Example: Mats has the flower field terrain card and with the suggested 
set-up, he can choose from 5 different location hexes for his first 
settlements.
© Copyright 2012 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved
Suggested set-up for your first game
Example: Mats 
has built his first 3 
settlements adja-
cent to only one 
other terrain type 
(Forest).