TM

Game Overview
In Kingdoms, players try to collect the most gold 
by establishing castles in the richest regions of 
the realm while avoiding hazards like dragons, 
swamps, and trolls.
Object of the Game
The object of Kingdoms is to collect the most gold 
over three rounds by placing castles on the board in 
the same rows or columns as valuable resource tiles.
After three rounds, the player with the most gold wins!
Components
Each copy of Kingdoms contains the following:
• 40 Plastic Castles, including:
• 16 Rank 1 Castles (4 per color)
• 12 Rank 2 Castles (3 per color)
• 8 Rank 3 Castles (2 per color)
• 4 Rank 4 Castles (1 per color)
• 1 Game Board
• 64 Cardboard Tokens, including:
• 19 Copper Coins with a value of 1
• 12 Copper Coins with a value of 5
• 20 Silver Coins with a value of 10
• 8 Gold Coins with a value of 50
• 4 Gold Coins with a value of 100
• 1 Epoch Counter
• 23 Cardboard Tiles, including:
• 12 Resource Tiles
• 6 Hazard Tiles
• 2 Mountain Tiles
• 1 Dragon Tile
• 1 Gold Mine Tile
• 1 Wizard Tile
• This Rulebook
Component Overview
This section describes the components of Kingdoms.
Plastic Castles
Each castle has a rank of 
1 to 4, indicated by the 
number of towers on the 
castle. The higher a castle’s 
rank, the more influential it 
is in a kingdom.
Game Board
The central portion 
of the game board 
is divided into five 
rows and six columns. 
When playing castles 
and tiles, they are 
placed into a space that is part of a row and a 
column. The board also displays the epoch track 
and has areas for a tile supply and a gold bank.
Resource Tiles
These 12 tiles represent 
farms, villages, cities, 
and other resources of a 
player’s kingdom. Each 
resource tile shows a 
value between “+1” and 
“+6” which indicates the 
amount of gold that tile 
is worth.
Hazard Tiles
These six tiles represent 
dangerous monsters 
and locations that rob a 
kingdom of its wealth. 
Each hazard tile shows a 
value between “-1” and 
“-6” which indicates the 
amount of gold that tile 
is worth.
Mountain Tiles
These two tiles represent 
impassable obstacles.
Dragon Tile
This tile represents a fierce dragon 
that disrupts all commerce in the 
kingdom, leaving the worst elements 
in the land free to wreak havoc.
Gold Mine Tile
The gold mine tile represents a 
valuable resource that is desired by 
every kingdom.
Wizard Tile
This tile represents a powerful 
wizard. Castles are greatly enhanced 
when in his presence.
Epoch Counter
The game is divided into three rounds 
known as epochs. Players use the 
epoch counter to keep track of the 
current epoch.
Gold Coins
These coins are used to 
track how much gold each 
player has.
TM

Setup
1.	 Each player chooses a color and takes all the 
rank 2, 3, and 4 castles of his color and a number 
of rank 1 castles determined by the number of 
players (see below). 
Number of Castles per Player
2.	 Sort the gold coins by denominations and place 
them in the gold bank area of the game board.
3.	 Give 50 gold to each player.
4.	 Shuffle all the tiles facedown and place them in 
the tile supply area of the game board.
5.	 Each player draws one tile and secretly looks at 
it, then places it facedown in front of him. This 
tile is known as that player’s starting tile.
6.	 Place the epoch counter on space “1” of the 
epoch track.
Play
Randomly choose one player to take the first turn. 
When that player’s turn is over, the player to his left 
takes his turn. Play proceeds clockwise in this manner.
On a player’s turn, he must take one of three actions:
1.	 Place One Castle: Place one friendly castle onto 
an empty space on the board; or
2.	 Draw and Place One Tile: Randomly draw one 
of the facedown tiles from the tile supply area, 
look at it, then place it faceup onto any empty 
space on the board; or
3.	 Place Starting Tile: Take the starting tile drawn 
at the beginning of the epoch and place it faceup 
onto any empty space on the board.
Players may only pass if they are unable to take any 
of these three actions.
Note: Once a castle or tile has been placed onto the 
board, it cannot be moved or replaced for the rest of 
the epoch.
Scoring
The epoch ends when there are no more empty 
spaces on the board. Each player then scores each 
row of the board, starting with the top row. Then he 
scores each column of the board, starting with the 
column on the left.
To score a row, add the values of all resource tiles, 
then subtract the values of all hazard tiles. Then 
multiply this total value by the total ranks of the 
player’s castles in that row. Special tiles may affect 
scoring (see below). The final score for the row 
determines the amount of gold the player collects 
from (or pays to) the bank.
Follow the same procedure for the columns. Note that 
each tile and castle will score twice at the end of every 
epoch: once for its row, and once for its column.
Some tiles have special functions during scoring:
• Mountain Tile: The mountain tile divides its 
row and column into two parts, each of which is 
scored separately.
• Gold Mine Tile: The gold mine tile doubles 
the value of all other tiles in its row and column, 
regardless of whether those tiles have a positive value 
(resource tiles) or a negative value (hazard tiles).
• Wizard Tile: The wizard tile increases the rank 
of each castle that is orthogonally adjacent to the 
wizard tile by one.
• Dragon Tile: The dragon tile cancels all resource 
tiles in its row and column when that row and 
column are scored. Only the hazard tiles in that 
row or column (if any) have any value.
The Second & Third Epochs
After scoring an epoch, follow these steps to prepare 
for the next epoch:
1.	 Remove all castles from the board. Return all 
rank 1 castles to their respective players for use 
in the next epoch. Return all other castles to the 
game box.
2.	 Remove all the tiles from the board, shuffle 
them, and place them in the tile supply area of 
the game board.
3.	 Each player draws one tile and secretly looks at 
it, then places it facedown in front of him.
4.	 Place the epoch counter on the next space of the 
epoch track.
The player with the most gold after the first epoch 
takes the first turn during the second epoch. The 
player with the most gold after the second epoch 
takes the first turn during the third epoch.
Game End
The game ends after the third epoch. The player 
with the most gold wins!
Game Variants
Use these variants to change the game experience.
Down to the Last Castle
This variant is played using the standard rules, but 
with the following changes:
Do not use the epoch counter. The number of epochs 
is unknown at the start of the game.
All players begin the game with all of the castles of 
their color, regardless of the number of players.
At the end of each epoch, remove all castles from 
the board (including rank 1 castles) and place them 
in the game box.
The game ends at the end of the epoch in which 
at least one player has placed his last castle. The 
epoch continues until every space on the board is 
full or no player can perform actions. The board 
is then scored as normal, and the player with the 
most gold wins.
When using this variant, it is possible that every 
space on the board may not be filled during the last 
epoch. If this happens, the empty spaces have a 
value of “0” when scoring. If players are unable to 
play during this epoch, they must pass until either 
no other players can play or the board is full.
No Luck
To eliminate the element of luck from the game, 
place all of the tiles faceup at the beginning of the 
epoch and do not draw a starting tile. Play continues 
as normal, but players may choose which tile to 
draw and place.
Score as You Go
Instead of scoring the entire board at the end of the 
epoch, score each row (and column) immediately as 
it becomes filled.
Example of Scoring
On the following page is a sample game board at 
the end of an epoch. The base value for the columns 
and rows of the sample game are listed, along with 
explanations of how the more complicated rows 
and columns are calculated.
Number of 
Players
Rank 1 
Castles
Rank 2, 3, & 4 
Castles

Row 1
The Town has a value of “+3,” while the Troll has 
a value of “-6.” Therefore, the base value of this 
row is “-3.”
This base value is multiplied by the total ranks of 
the castles that the players have placed in the row. 
The red and blue players have each placed a single 
rank 1 castle in the row, so each must pay three gold 
to the bank.
The yellow player has placed a rank 4 castle and 
a rank 1 castle in this row. The rank 1 castle is 
adjacent to the Wizard, so that castle increases to 
rank 2. The yellow player now has a total of 6 ranks 
in the row, so he must pay 18 gold to the bank.
Row 4
A mountain splits this row into two parts.
On the left side, the Dragon cancels the Village, 
so the yellow player’s rank 2 castle does not 
score anything. 
On the right side, the Knight has a value of “+5,” 
which is multiplied by the blue player’s rank 1 
castle for a total of 5. The blue player collects five 
gold from the bank.
Column 2
The Windmill has a value of “+4,” but it is canceled 
by the Dragon; only the Dire Wolves have any effect, 
so the base value of this column is “-3.” This value 
is doubled by the Gold Mine, so the red player has to 
pay six gold to the bank for his rank 1 castle.
Column 4
The Mountain divides the yellow player’s castle 
from the rest of the column. The yellow player 
scores no gold.
On the other side of the Mountain, the Village has 
a value of “+1,” while the Raider’s value is “-5.” 
Therefore, the base value of the column is “-4,” and 
the blue player has to pay four gold to the bank for 
his rank 1 castle.
Column 6
The values of the Knight and the Farm are “+5” and 
“+2” respectively, so the base value of this column 
is “7.” The Wizard increases the rank of the two 
adjacent rank 1 castles in this row by one. The yellow 
and blue players now each effectively have a rank 2 
castle and they each collect 14 gold from the bank.
The rest of the rows and columns are scored in the 
same manner. The following table shows the results 
after the first epoch.
Scores After the First Epoch
Credits
Game Design: Reiner Knizia
Producer: Christopher Hosch
Editing & Proofreading: Steven Kimball
Graphic Design: Kevin Childress with Michael Silsby
Cover Art: Anders Finer
Token Art: Peter Tikos
Board Art: Henning Ludvigsen
3D Castle Design: Ben Zweifel and Jason Beaudoin
Playtesting: Gabriela Dressel, Barbara and Dieter 
Hornung, Markus Michalka, Karl-Heinz Schmiel, 
Daniel Steel, and Franz Vohwinkel
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
© 2011 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved. No part of this prod-
uct may be reproduced without specific permission. Kingdoms, Fantasy Flight 
Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy 
Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County 
Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can be reached by 
telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suit-
able for children under 36 months due to small parts. Actual components may 
vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT 
INTENDED FOR USE OF PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Player
Total
Yellow
Red
-5
Blue
Example of scoring
Example of scoring
	
	
	
-4/0	
-6/4	
	
-4/0	
-6/4	
-3
10/0
-1
0/5
-3
10/0
-1
0/5
Base
Values
Base
Values