A game by Andrea Chiarvesio and Luca Iennaco
2–5 players / Age 10+ 
In the fantasy realm of Kingsburg, King Tritus has chosen his most trusted and talented governors (that’s you!) to oversee his newly acquired territories, at the very edge of his 
realm. To be successful, you will need to call upon the help of the King’s trusted advisors. Some of them might not be nice people, but they have skills and resources that could be 
very helpful to you. You must construct buildings, strengthen your defenses, and train your army to defend your territory from the frightening enemies that mass on the border. After 
five years, the King will reward the most successful governor with a position among his most trusted advisors!
Setup
Place the game board in the center of the play area. Place the season 
marker on the Aid from the King space (#1) of the Calendar Track 
and the year marker on the first space of the Year Track (with the 
Roman numeral “I”). Place the white dice and the “+2” tokens on their 
matching space on the game board. Place the King’s Envoy marker on 
the #5 space of the Calendar Track.
Put the goods cubes on their corresponding areas of the game board to 
act as the supply. During the game, if you gain or use goods, take them 
(or return them) to this supply. Your goods should always be visible to 
the other players at all times during the game.
Choose your color and take all the pieces that match your color (three 
dice, three disc tokens, and 17 building tokens) and a province sheet. If 
there are pieces left over, return them to the box.
Place your province sheet faceup in front of you, along with your dice 
and building tokens. Place one disc token of your color on the “0” 
space of the Soldiers Chart and one on the “0” space of the Scoring 
Track. Place one of each player’s disc tokens on the Turn Order Chart 
in a random order.
1 Game Board:
5 Province Sheets:
21 Six-sided Dice:
6 x 
1 King’s Envoy Marker:
20 “+2” Tokens:
25 x 
gold
wood
stone
85 Building Tokens:
1 Season Marker:
1 Year Marker:
25 Enemies Cards (5 types with 5 cards each):
This Rulebook.
What’s Inside:
Season Token
Year
Token
 “King’s Envoy” Token
Enemies Cards
Year
Track
Calendar
Track
Goods
Supply
Turn
Order
Chart
Soldiers Chart
Scoring Track
(numbered 0 to 59)
20 x 
15 x 
15 Disc Tokens:
60 Goods Cubes:

Divide the Enemies Cards into five small stacks, by the number on the 
backs. Shuffle each stack separately and randomly select one card from 
each stack without looking at them. Make one pile of five cards in 
numerical order (with the “I” card on top and the “V” card at the bottom) 
and place them facedown on the #8 space of the Calendar Track. This pile 
is the “Enemies Deck.” Put the remaining 20 cards back in the box without 
looking at them. These cards will not be used this game.
Example: Ann, Brian, Cindy, and David are ready to play a game of Kingsburg. The 
random turn order is: Cindy, Ann, David, and then Brian. The Enemies Cards have been 
sorted by the symbols on the back, and one card was randomly drawn from each stack 
to form the Enemies Deck, which is now on calendar space #8. Each player takes the 
province sheet, dice, and tokens of his or her color and is ready to begin the first year!
 
 Goal
Each player strives to be the governor with the most Victory Points (VP) 
at the end of the fifth year. Players can gain points by influencing the 
King’s advisors, constructing valuable buildings, and winning battles 
against the invading enemies.
 
How to Play
The game is played over five years. Each year is divided into eight 
phases, which always occur in the same order. The phases are shown on 
the Calendar Track. 
At the end of each phase, the calendar marker is moved to the next 
space, showing which phase is next.
The eight phases are divided into four seasons. Each season has a 
special event, followed by the regular season phase.
Here are the phases in detail:
Phase 1: Aid from the King
The King needs all of his governors to improve their provinces, so he 
will assist any governor that falls behind the rest. The player with the 
fewest constructed buildings (if there is a tie for fewest, the tied player 
with the least number of goods) rolls an additional white die during the 
spring season (spring only, not summer, autumn, or winter). If there is 
a tie for both fewest buildings and least goods, the King aids all tied 
players. In that case, each tied player receives any one good (of his or 
her choice), but no one rolls the extra white die.
! During the very first phase of the first year no player has built or owns anything, so 
 all players are tied: every player chooses and receives a single good (and no one 
 will roll the white die).
 
 
After determining which player (or players) needs the King’s help (and 
assigning the white die or goods), proceed to the next phase.
 
 
Example: In the first year, everyone chooses one good: Ann chooses a wood, Brian a stone, 
and Cindy and David both choose a gold.
 
Example: It’s the beginning of the third year. Ann owns six buildings and has no goods 
left, Brian has five buildings and two goods, Cindy has five buildings but no goods, and 
David owns six buildings and one good. Cindy has the least, so she takes a white die from 
the supply and will roll it with her other dice that spring. At the end of the spring season, 
she will return the die to the supply.
 
 
Phase 2: Spring – First Productive Season
All productive seasons (spring, summer, and autumn) are broken down 
into four steps, carried out by all players in this order: 
a) Roll Dice and Adjust the Turn Order Chart
b) Influence the King’s Advisors
c) Receive Help from the Advisors
d) Construct Buildings
 ! There is a special rule for the “b) Influence the King’s Advisors” step used only in a two-	
 player game: see page 7.
a) Roll Dice and Adjust the Turn Order Chart
All players roll all their dice simultaneously. After you roll, you may use 
the benefits of the Statue and/or Chapel if you own one and choose to 
use it. These rerolls are used in the order shown on the current Turn 
Order Chart.
Then, the positions of all the player tokens on the Turn Order Chart are 
adjusted for the season: each player adds up the value of all his or her 
dice (including any white dice rolled for this season). The player with the 
lowest total will be the new first player, with the other players acting in 
order of dice totals (so the player who rolled the highest total for this 
season will occupy the last position of the Turn Order Chart). If there is 
a tie for dice totals, then the tied player whose token was in the higher 
position during the previous season (or the random placement at the 
beginning of the game) keeps the higher position.
After the turn order has been determined, proceed to the next step.
Example: 
 Ann rolls 1,3,5 (total = 9) 
 
 Brian 4,4,5 (total = 13) 
 
 Cindy 2,2,6 (total = 10) 
 
 David 2,3,5 (total = 10) 
 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Continues… 

 
Continued 
 
The Turn Order Chart is now 
arranged: Ann goes first (lowest 
total), then Cindy (same dice 
total as David, but her token 
was in a higher position than 
David’s), and David, with Brian 
last (highest total). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Influence the King’s Advisors
In turn order, players now have the opportunity to influence one advisor 
or pass. After the last player in turn order has influenced an advisor or 
passed, the first player has an opportunity to influence a second advisor, 
and so on. Continue taking turns to influence advisors until you pass. 
Once you pass, you are done with this step, and your turn during this 
step will be skipped for the rest of the season.
To influence an advisor, you must spend one or more of your dice. The 
total of the dice you spend must be exactly equal to the advisor value. 
You cannot partially spend dice! The full value of all dice must be used. 
When you influence an advisor, place your die or dice on that advisor’s 
square on the board. 
! A single “+2” token can be added to a die (or dice) to increase the sum by exactly 
 two points. You can hold an unlimited number of “+2” tokens, but you can only add 
 one token per season to a die or dice group.
 
You cannot influence an advisor if that advisor has already been 
influenced during the current season (by another player or by yourself). 
In other words, each space in the King’s Court can have only one die (or 
dice group owned by a single player) on it. The only exception to this 
rule occurs when a player uses the King’s Envoy (see page 5).
! You cannot influence an advisor using only a white die or dice and/or “+2” tokens; in 
 other words, to influence an advisor, you must use at least one of your colored dice. You 
 may use two white dice in the same dice group, but only if that group includes at least 
 one colored die.
 
If you have no colored dice left, or if you cannot legally place the dice 
you have left, you must pass.
When all players have passed, proceed to the next step.
 
Example: 
 
Ann, noticing that no other player 
rolled a “1,” places her two dice (5, 
3) on the Treasurer (#8) space.
 
It’s now Cindy’s turn. She cannot 
play (2,6) on the Treasurer (occupied 
by Ann’s dice) as she was planning, 
so she plays two dice (2, 2) on the 
Merchant (#4) space.
 
David notices that Ann already used 
her “3” die, so he places his two 
other dice (2,5) on the Astronomer 
(#7) space.
 
It’s now Brian’s turn. He could place 
all his dice on the Champion (#13) 
space, but that advisor would give 
him three stone, and he already has 
one. He cannot play two dice (4,4) on 
the Treasurer because of Ann’s dice, 
so he chooses to place two dice (4,5) 
on the Master Hunter (#9).
 
Now it’s Ann’s turn again. Since she 
only has her “1” die left, she places it 
on the Jester (#1). 
 
Cindy also has only a single die left 
(a “6”), which she can put on the 
Alchemist (#6).
 
David is next with his last die 
(a “3”), which he places on the 
Architect (#3). 
Brian’s only remaining die is a “4,” 
which he can’t place because Cindy 
has already used the Merchant, so he 
passes his turn. 
 
No player has any useable dice left, 
so this step is over.
 
c) Receive Help from the Advisors
Each advisor, in ascending order from #1 to #18, helps the player who 
influenced him or her by placing a die (or dice) on that advisor’s space. 
If there are no dice on an advisor’s space, just skip that advisor. 

Some advisors offer a choice of help (indicated by a slash between the 
two choices). If you influence one of these advisors, then you must 
choose which one (and only one) gift to receive.
 
JESTER: Gain 1 VP (advance your token one space on the 
Scoring Track).
SQUIRE: Take 1 gold from the supply.
ARCHITECT: Take 1 wood from the supply.
MERCHANT: Take 1 wood OR 1 gold from the supply.
SERGEANT: Recruit 1 soldier (advance your token one 
space on the Soldiers Chart).
ALCHEMIST: You can trade 1 single good of your choice 
(put it back into the supply) for the other 2 goods, i.e., 
give back 1 stone to take 1 gold and 1 wood.
ASTRONOMER: Take 1 good of your choice AND 1 “+2” 
token from the supply.
TREASURER: Take 2 gold from the supply.
MASTER HUNTER: Take 1 wood and 1 gold OR 1 wood 
and 1 stone from the supply.
GENERAL: Recruit 2 soldiers (advance your token two 
spaces on the Soldiers Chart) and secretly look at the 
topmost card in the Enemies Deck (then put it back on 
top of the deck facedown).
SWORDSMITH: Take 1 stone and 1 wood OR 1 stone and 
1 gold from the supply. 
DUCHESS: Take 2 goods of your choice AND 1 “+2” 
token from the supply.
CHAMPION: Take 3 stone from the supply.
SMUGGLER: Pay 1 VP (adjust the Scoring Track by moving 
your token back one space) to take 3 goods of your 
choice from the supply.
INVENTOR: Take 1 gold, 1 wood, and 1 stone from the 
supply. 
WIZARD: Take 4 gold from the supply.
QUEEN: Take 2 goods of your choice from the supply 
AND secretly look at the topmost card in the Enemies 
Deck (then put it back on top of the deck facedown) 
AND gain 3 VP (advance your token three spaces on the 
Scoring Track).
KING: Take 1 gold, 1 wood, and 1 stone from the supply 
AND Recruit 1 soldier (advance your token one space on 
the Soldiers Chart).
When all of the advisors have given their gifts, take your dice off the 
game board and return them to your supply. Any “+2” tokens or white 
dice used are returned to the general supply. Then, proceed to the next 
step. 
! The supply is assumed to be unlimited. If at any time the supply should run out of any 
 goods or tokens, simply keep track of the extra goods and tokens possessed by the
 players using any method you choose.
Example: The Jester awards one Victory Point to Ann: Ann moves her token ahead on the 
Scoring Track one space. There are no dice on the Squire, so he is ignored. The Architect 
donates one wood to David, who takes it from the supply. 
The Merchant lets Cindy choose whether she wants one gold or one wood. She already has 
a gold, so she goes for the wood. After ignoring the Sergeant (no dice on him), it’s time to 
resolve the Alchemist. Cindy gives the wood she just acquired (from the Merchant) back to 
the supply and takes one gold and one stone.
The Astronomer gives one “+2” token to David (he takes it from the supply) and one good 
of his choice.
Her dice on the Treasurer allow Ann to take two gold from the supply; then Brian chooses 
one wood and one gold from the Master Hunter (he could have taken one wood and one 
stone instead).
Since none of the remaining advisors have any dice on them, everyone takes back their dice 
and the current step is over. 

d) Construct Buildings
In turn order, each player has an opportunity to construct one building 
(Exception: the King’s Envoy can allow you to perform a double build, 
see “Phase 5: The King’s Envoy”). The cost to construct each building 
is shown on your province sheet. To construct a building, you must 
pay this cost back to the supply. You can only construct one building 
each season: first pay the building costs for the building you wish to 
construct, then place one of your building tokens on that building (you 
may find it convenient to cover the building costs with your token). If 
you construct a building that is worth Victory Points, move your token 
the appropriate number of spaces up the Scoring Track.
! You must construct the buildings in each row from left to right. In other words, you 
 can only construct a building if you already own all of the buildings in the same row 
 to the left of the one you want to build. Of course, you can always begin a new row by 
 constructing the building in the leftmost column. You can only have one of each 
 building at a time.
 
Example: You can only build the Church if you have already built the Statue and the 
Chapel.
 
 
 
 
Example: Ann has two gold and one wood. She uses the two gold to build the Statue. 
She takes one of her round building tokens and places it in the corresponding space. The 
Statue is worth three VP, so she moves her token up on the Scoring Track three spaces. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brian wants to build the Inn, and he pays one gold and one wood. He places a building 
token on his province sheet, but gains no VP (the Inn is not worth any VP).
Cindy has two gold and one stone. Her choice is the Guard Tower, so she pays one gold 
and one stone and scores one VP.
David spends two wood to build the Palisade, but gains no VP.
 
As long as you own a building, you can also use the special powers 
granted by that building. Each building’s power is described in that 
building’s space. Please note that you receive all the benefits of all 
buildings you have constructed, even if you construct new buildings in 
the same row. Some buildings, such as the Inn, have special powers that 
are used at the end of the productive season. See page 8 for additional 
notes about these powers. 
 
Your buildings can be destroyed during the winter season (see “Phase 
8: Winter – The Battle”). If this happens, you must remove the building 
token from your province sheet, and you immediately lose the VP you 
received from that building (and must move your token on the Scoring 
Track to reflect the loss). After every player has had the chance to 
construct a single building or pass, proceed to the next phase.
Phase 3: The King’s Reward
The King is pleased with his “best” governor (according to his 
judgment): the player with the most buildings is rewarded with one 
bonus VP. If there is a tie (for number of buildings), all tied players are 
awarded one VP. After the Scoring Track is adjusted, proceed to the next 
phase.
Phase 4: Summer – Second Productive Season
Summer is resolved in exactly the same way as “Phase 2: Spring” (Roll 
Dice and Adjust the Turn Order Chart, Influence the King’s Advisors, 
Receive Help from the Advisors, and Construct Buildings). Then proceed 
to the next phase.
Phase 5: The King’s Envoy
Each summer, the King sends his most trusted Envoy to assist the 
governor that (in his judgment) has developed the least. The player with 
the fewest buildings (in case of a tie, the tied player with the fewest 
goods) is awarded the King’s Envoy marker. If there is a tie for buildings 
and goods, then no player receives the marker.
The King’s Envoy can be used during any productive season to perform 
one of these two actions:
Influence an advisor that has already been influenced (by yourself or 
another player). You must still use your influence dice to influence 
the advisor, following the normal rules (see page 3). For that season 
only, the advisor will give gifts twice.
Perform a double build during Step d of a productive season. You 
must still pay the full building costs for both buildings and follow all 
of the normal building rules (see Phase 2, Step d).
You may only use the benefit of the King’s Envoy once before you must 
return him to the matching calendar space. If you do not use the King’s 
Envoy before the beginning of Phase 5 of the following year, the marker 
goes back to the supply and may be assigned again (even to the same 
player who possessed it the previous year).
After assigning (or not) the King’s Envoy marker, proceed to the next 
phase. 
Example: It’s year two, in the “King’s Envoy” phase. Ann owns five buildings and no 
goods, Brian has four buildings and two goods, Cindy owns four buildings and one good, 
and David has four buildings and no goods. David is assigned the King’s Envoy marker. If 
Cindy, for instance, had no goods also, the King’s Envoy would not have been assigned for 
the current year.
Example: It’s the “Construct Buildings” step and David holds the King’s Envoy marker, 
one gold, and three wood. According to the rules, he is allowed to perform one single 
building action, but he calls on the King’s Envoy for aid (and puts the marker back on the 
corresponding space on the game board) to perform two building actions instead of one. 
He builds both the Barricade and the Blacksmith in the same season.

Example: It’s the “Influence the King’s Advisors” step and David holds the King’s Envoy 
marker. He has one die left (a “3”), but there is already one of Brian’s dice on the Architect. 
David calls for the aid of the King’s Envoy and places his die together with Brian’s on the 
Architect space. This season only, the Architect will help both Brian and David.
Phase 6: Autumn – Third Productive Season
Autumn is resolved in exactly the same way as “Phase 2: Spring” (Roll 
Dice and Adjust the Turn Order Chart, Influence the King’s Advisors, 
Receive Help from the Advisors, and Construct Buildings). Then proceed 
to the next phase.
Phase 7: Recruit Soldiers
In turn order, each player now has an opportunity to hire soldiers. You 
may hire any number of soldiers at a cost of two goods (the same or 
different) per soldier. Move your token up one space on the Soldiers 
Chart for each soldier you hire.
After all players have a chance to recruit soldiers, the phase ends. 
Phase 8: Winter – The Battle
Winter is not a “productive season.” In winter you must instead face 
an invading army of enemies. Turn over the top card from the Enemies 
Deck (on calendar space #8). This is the enemy that is invading the 
realm this year.
The strength of the invading 
enemy is equal to the number 
in the top left corner.
In the red box there is a 
list of the penalties (loss of 
goods, buildings, and/or VP) 
you will suffer if the enemy 
defeats your soldiers.
In the blue box are the 
rewards (goods and/or VP) 
you will earn if you are 
victorious against the enemy.
The back side of each Enemy 
Card also lists the possible 
strength of all enemies in 
each year, so you can predict 
how strong the enemies 
might be each year.
Each governor must fight the enemy himself, with the help of additional 
soldiers sent by King Tritus.
The first player on the Turn Order Chart must roll one die. The value 
of this die is the number of soldiers sent by the King to each governor. 
Every player advances his or her token on the Soldiers Chart a number 
of spaces equal to the value rolled on that die.
Example: Ann has built the Statue, Palisade, and Barricade. Her token on the Soldiers 
Chart is on the #0 space. She has no goods. Brian owns the Inn and the Guard Tower. He 
holds one wood and one stone. His token is on the #1 space of the Soldiers Chart. Cindy 
has the Guard Tower, the Blacksmith, and the Barricade. She has no goods and no soldiers. 
David has built the Inn, the Barricade, and the Crane. He owns one wood and has no 
soldiers (his token is on the #0 space of the Soldiers Chart).
The top card of the Enemies Deck is revealed. It’s an army of Goblins (strength = 3).
The first player rolls one die to determine the number of troops sent by the King. He rolls a 
“1,” so very few troops will come to help the players. Every token on the Soldiers Chart is 
moved up one space (Brian’s token goes to #2, all the others move from #0 to #1).
To determine the result of your battle, compare your combat value to the 
current enemy strength. To determine your combat value, add (and/or 
subtract) any bonuses (or penalties) from buildings you have constructed 
to your score on the Soldiers Chart.
higher than the enemy strength, you have won 
the battle and you receive the rewards listed on the Enemy Card;
equal to the enemy strength, you have barely 
managed to resist to the enemies, so no rewards or losses are given 
or suffered;
 lower than the enemy strength, you have been 
defeated and must suffer the losses listed on the Enemy Card (gold, 
wood, stone, good of your choice, building, and VP) – see details 
below.
The player (or players) whose total combat value (King’s Die + buildings 
+ soldiers) is the highest receives one bonus VP, but only if he or she was 
also victorious in the battle.

! The Soldier Chart is numbered from 1 to 9, but a player’s total combat value can be 
 higher than 9. So, for instance, if a player’s total combat value (after bonuses and 
 penalties due to his or her buildings) is 10 and another player’s total combat value is 
 11, only the latter will be awarded the additional VP. 
If you lose the battle, you must suffer the penalties listed in the red box 
on the Enemy Card:
a) Lose Goods
Any goods you lose because of the battle must be returned to the 
supply. If you don’t have enough goods to pay, you simply lose what you 
have and suffer no additional loss of goods.
b) Building Destroyed
If one of your buildings is destroyed when you lose a battle, you must 
determine which building is destroyed. The destroyed building will 
always be in the rightmost column where you have at least one building. 
If you have more than one building in your rightmost column, the 
building closest to the top is the one that the enemies destroy. You must 
remove the corresponding building token and adjust the Scoring Track 
accordingly (from that point on, you won’t benefit from the destroyed 
building’s powers, unless you eventually rebuild the building). Destroyed 
buildings can be rebuilt in a future productive season as normal (paying 
the building cost, etc.). 
c) Victory Point Losses
If you lose Victory Points when you are defeated in battle, you must 
move your token on the Scoring Track down the number of spaces 
shown.
After the battles have been resolved for all players, return the Enemy 
Card to the box (even if all players lose the battle, the King’s army will 
eventually chase the enemies away for you).
Finally, all the soldiers go home (move all the tokens on the Soldiers 
Chart back to the “0” space). The phase and the year come to an end.
Let’s continue the previous example and determine the individual battle results:
Ann has a total combat value of 3 (1 soldier, +1 due to the Palisade, +1 due to the 
Barricade since the players are facing an army of Goblins), so it’s a draw. No gains, no 
losses. Brian’s combat value is also 3 (2 soldiers +1 Guard Tower), which is another draw.
Cindy has a total combat value of 4 (1 soldier + 1 for each of her buildings: Guard Tower, 
Blacksmith, and Barricade). She wins her battle and receives the reward shown in the blue 
box of the Goblins card: one stone good.
David’s total combat value, on the other hand, is only 2 (1 soldier +1 because of his 
Barricade). He loses the battle and must suffer the losses shown in the red box of the 
Goblins card! David should lose one gold, but he has none, so he doesn’t lose any goods. 
The Goblins also destroy one of his buildings. In the second column, he has one building 
(Crane) and in the first column he has two (Inn and Barricade). Since buildings are 
 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 Continues… 
Continued
destroyed in the rightmost column first, his Crane is destroyed. If he had built a Market, 
then the Market would have been destroyed instead (since it is in the same column as the 
Crane, but in a higher row). 
 
 
 
 
 
The victorious player with the highest total strength is Cindy (She is actually the only one 
to win her battle!), so she also receives one additional VP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All the tokens on the Soldiers Chart are moved back to the starting position (space #0).
The current year is now over, so the year marker is moved to the next year, the calendar 
marker is returned to the first space (Aid from the King), and a new year begins! 
 
 
End of the Year
After the winter season (Phase 8) is finished, the current year comes to 
an end. Move the marker on the Year Track down one space. If it is the 
end of the fifth year (year “V”), the game ends. Otherwise, a new year 
begins with Phase 1 again. Proceed through all eight phases every year.
 
Winning the Game
At the end of the fifth year, the player who has the most Victory Points 
is the winner!
 
If there is a tie for Victory Points, the winner is the tied player with the 
most goods left. If there is still a tie, then the tied player with the most 
buildings wins. If buildings are also tied, then all tied players share the 
victory!
 
Special Rule for Two-Player Games
In two-player games, the following rule is also used:
 
At the very beginning of each productive season (Phases 2, 4, and 6), roll 
three dice (of any color not being used by the two players). Use these 
three dice to “influence” the advisor matching the total rolled. Then, roll 
two more dice (of another unused color) and place them on an advisor’s 
space in the same way. If the total of both rolls is the same (and the 

advisor is already marked with the set of three dice), then instead place 
the two dice individually on the advisors matching the numbers rolled 
(if both dice are the same, place one aside for that season). The two (or 
three) advisors marked in this way have already been “influenced” for 
this season (and the players can only influence these advisors by using 
the King’s Envoy).
At the end of the productive season, remove these dice so they can be 
used again for the next season.
 Additional Notes About Buildings 
Statue and Chapel - You can activate both the Statue and the 
Chapel effects in the same season, but only once for each effect. For 
example, if you roll your three colored dice plus one white die and 
your result is 2,2,2,2, you can reroll one die thanks to the Statue effect 
(the Chapel won’t help you because the total of all dice rolled is 8). 
The reroll result is a “1.” Now your total is 7, so you can reroll all dice 
(including the one just rerolled), but if the new total happens to be 
equal to or less than 7, or if you again roll four identical numbers, you 
can’t reroll any more dice this season. Flip the building token on the 
Statue and/or Chapel to show that you have used it already for the 
current season.
Church - +0 in battle (becomes +1 only when fighting Demons).
Cathedral - You get one extra VP for every two goods you own at the 
end of the game (any combination of goods).
Inn - At the end of every summer season, remember to give a “+2” 
token to every player that owns an Inn (before starting Phase 5). The 
token awarded by the Inn can be used immediately to pay for the 
benefit of a Town Hall owned by the same player.
Market - Example of how the Market works: you can use a group of 
dice whose combined total is 9 to influence advisor #8 or #10 (or you 
can choose not to use your Market and influence #9 instead). Put the 
dice on the space matching the advisor you want to influence without 
changing the value of your dice. Remember that you can only use your 
Market once per season. Flip the building token on your Market space 
as a reminder that you have used that ability this season.
Farms - Important: you can’t use the additional white die provided 
by the Farms by itself to influence an advisor. A white die must always 
be combined with colored dice. Also, remember to subtract one from 
your combat value during the winter battle if you have built the Farms.
Merchants’ Guild - If you forget to take the free gold provided by 
the Merchants’ Guild before rolling the dice, you won’t receive any free 
gold that season…too bad!
Barracks - You can use the ability to recruit soldiers for one good 
each multiple times. For example, you can pay a total of three goods 
to recruit three soldiers (and move your token on the Soldiers Chart 
forward three spaces).
Palisade - +1 in battle (becomes +2 only when fighting Zombies).
 
Stables - When you influence the General (#10), you get three 
soldiers instead of two. When you influence the Sergeant (#5) or the 
King (#18), you get two soldiers instead of one. 
Stone Wall - If your total combat value is equal to the enemy 
strength, you win the battle.
Fortress - If, for example, you win a battle against an enemy whose 
reward is one gold, you receive one gold and one Victory Point.
Barricade - +0 in battle (becomes +1 only when fighting Goblins).
Crane - Example of how the Crane works: if you have a Crane, 
building the Farms will only cost you one gold (instead of two), three 
wood, and one stone.
Town Hall - You can only use the Town Hall to purchase a VP once 
each season. So, you cannot pay a “+2” token and one good to get 
two VP, nor can you pay two tokens or two goods. In other words, you 
can only purchase one VP from the Town Hall each season.
Embassy - You also receive the bonus VP provided by the Embassy at 
the end of each productive season at the end of the season you build 
the Embassy.
CREDITS
A Game By: Andrea Chiarvesio and Luca Iennaco
Illustrations and Graphic Design: Mad4Gamestyle
Production: Silvio Negri-Clementi with Federico Faenza
English Edition Editor: Mark O’Connor
English Edition Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Kingsburg is distributed in the English language outside the 
European Union by Fantasy Flight Games. 
 
Stratelibri is the book and game division for Counter srl. Stratelibri 
is a TM 2002–2008 Counter srl. All rights are reserved. Kingsburg is a 
© & TM 2007–2008 Counter srl – Italy. 
 
Any reproduction of this material, in whole or in part, is strictly 
forbidden without permission. All the characters and events 
depicted in this game are fictional. Any resemblance to actual 
persons (living or dead) is purely coincidental.