Konane 
Play a game ofkonane (ko-nah-nay) in the cool shade near
Keone 'ele Cove, as the early Hawaiians did. 
This game ofskill and strategy can be learned in minutes, 
but may take a lifetime to master. 
Papamu 
. -·...·. 
.. ·...·....·.
.. .. . ... . 
.. : ....... ·. .... ·.
·. .. .·...........·.. 
.•·.·.. -.. ·.··.-·.. ·.
.·. . ....... . ... .. .
·. . . . . . .. ........
. . . . . .
:·. . .... ·. -·...
... . .. . . 
·.-:. : : ..
... 
The Hawaiians gouged small puka (depressions) in huge flat lava 
stones to create a game board called papamu. Black lava pieces, 
light-colored coral, or seashells were used for game pieces. 
Around the island ofHawai'i, papamii ofmany different shapes, 
sizes and weight can be found. Fishermen have come across large 
rocks along the seashore, both in and out ofwater, with 
impressions numbering up to and beyond 100. 
The image at the left is ofa papamii carved into an extensive 
petroglyph field at Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical Park, 
three miles north ofKona. A ½ mile trail from the Visitor Center 
will take you to this impressive petroglyph field. 
Kiipuna (elders) tell us that the papamii served many purposes. In 
addition to the game ofkonane, it may have been used as: 
calendars or abacus, for strategic war planning, divination, 
medical instruction and diagnosis, charting and teaching 
constellations and navigation. 
It was said that King Kamehameha was an excellent player, 
sometimes beating his opponent in one move. Early visitors 
to Hawai'i wrote ofthe popularity ofthis game and noted 
that Kamehameha would sit long hours over the game. His 
skill was so great that his chiefs and queens were no match 
for him. 

Prepare to Engage 
Fill all the holes alternately with light and dark pebbles. To check readiness for play, look across the 
papamu from one comer to the opposite. Each diagonal row should be the same color. 
How to Play 
Sit across from each other. One player puts a pebble in each hand, one dark and one light, then puts 
both hands behind their back. Present closed hands to your opponent, who selects a hand, thereby 
selecting the color of pebble they will be playing with. Place the two pieces on the papamii. The player 
with the dark pebbles goes first. 
"Black" removes a black stone from anywhere on the board. "White" removes a white stone from 
anywhere on the board. 
"Black" jumps one ofthe light pieces and removes it. "White" jumps one ofthe dark pieces and 
removes it; players continue to take turns. 
In any move, a player moves only one pebble, jumping any direction but diagonally. You cannot move 
in more than one direction in a tum; you may choose to make multiple jumps but you don't have to. 
As the game continues, there will be fewer pebbles on the board, thus fewer chances to jump. The 
player who makes the last jump wins. 
More than 100 years ago, the 
fame and skill oftl,e 
Hawaiian konane players 
reached the ears ofthe world. 
Tl,e king ofEngland sent /1is 
champion draughts players 
around the world challenging 
all comers to a game of 
c/1eckers. King Kamehameha 
sent his "queens" team to 
meet the challenge, and they 
beat the best oftl,e British 
Empire at their own game. 
Pu'ubonua o Honaunau National Historical Park was established 
in 1961. The Royal Grounds were home to generations ofa/i·; 
(chiefs.) The grounds include thatched hale (houses,) a royal fishpond, 
Keone'ele Cove, and the Hale o Keawe heiau (pace of worship.) The 
Great Wall encloses the pu 'uhonua (a place ofrefuge) where those 
who had broken kapu (laws) could be forgiven.