Your pirate crew is sailing the 
seven seas looking for adventure 
when the tentacles of the terrible 
Kraken Tootone suddenly burst 
from beneath the waves to attack 
your ship! Quick! All hands on 
deck! Grab your sabers, pistols, 
and cannons! Join forces and 
coordinate your actions to save 
your ship!

BUBBLE space
Cannon zone
Pistol zone
Saber zone
Boat area*
 *Note that your “Boat area” covers 2 rows of BUBBLES 
at the same time. This is useful when pushing a Tentacle, 
repairing the Rails, or moving.
2/2
1/2
GAME SET UP
1 × Place the Ship board in the middle of the table.
2 × Place the 8 Ship’s Rails on the board around the edges of the 
Ship.
3 × Place the 8 Tentacle figurines in the ocean, as shown in the 
illustration (take care to separate the two colors). 
4 × Place the 4 Hole tokens face-down in the middle of the Ship.
5 × Place the Kraken tracking board next to the Ship board and the 
4 Kraken dice on the indicated spaces; the Kraken figurine is 
placed on the starting spot. You will use the 2 remaining dice as 
soon as the game starts. 
6 × Place the 3 Kraken attack tokens at the end of the Kraken 
tracking board, on the boat spot.
7 × Each player chooses a Pirate and places their pawn on one of the 
4 Boat's areas. Any number of Pirates can be placed in the same 
area.
8 × Each player takes the 10 Action cards for their chosen Pirate and 
a Player Aid card placed with "1/2" side face up.
9 × Shuffle your 10 Action cards: place 2 face-up in front of you and 
put the 8 others next to them face-down, forming your draw 
pile.
1 Ship board
1 Kraken tracking board
1 Kraken figurine
8 Tentacle figurines
(4 purple and 4 red)
40 Action cards
4 Player Aid cards
6 Kraken dice
(3 purple and 3 red)
4 Pirate pawns
8 Ship’s Rails
4 Hole tokens
3 Kraken Attack tokens
4 Whirlpool tokens 
(used for the experienced 
player variant see p.12)
GAME MATERIALS

1111
OBJECT OF THE GAME
GAMEPLAY
MOVE THE TENTACLES
Kraken attack is a cooperative game. Working as a team, chase 
away the fearsome Kraken Tootone before he sinks your 
Ship. If you succeed in placing 3 Kraken attack tokens on the 
Kraken, you win. However, if the Kraken smashes 4 holes in 
your Ship, you lose!
The player who does the best octopus imitation goes first. In order, each 
player takes their turn clockwise around the table.
MOVE THE TENTACLES
To move the Tentacles, 
roll all of the available 
dice. (At the beginning of 
the game, only 2 dice are 
available).
The red dice move 
red Tentacles, and the 
purple dice move purple 
Tentacles.
The symbols on the faces of the dice match the symbols drawn on 
the sides of the Ship board in the BUBBLES spaces. They show which 
Tentacle to move. For example the "Star" face on the red die moves the 
red Tentacle in the "Star" row. Each Tentacle only moves in its own row 
in a straight line toward the Ship.
The blank face doesn't move any Tentacle and the Eye of the 
kraken is explained later.
Once the dice are rolled, move the corresponding Tentacles one space closer 
to the Ship. The same Tentacle can move more than one space in a turn (if 
you roll the same BUBBLE symbol on multiple dice of the same color).
If a Tentacle that is already in the Saber zone is activated... 
disaster! It attacks the Ship!
There are 2 possibilities:
There is a Ship’s Rail: 
The Tentacle destroys 
the rail! Remove the 
corresponding rail from the 
board and move the Tentacle back to its 
BUBBLES space on the Ship board.
There is no Ship’s Rail: The Tentacle 
smashes a hole in the Ship! Place a Hole 
token face-up on the Boat Area and 
move the Tentacle back to its 
BUBBLES space on the 
Ship board.
Several Hole tokens can be placed on the same Boat Area.
PLAY AN ACTION CARD
Once the dice have been rolled and the Tentacles have been moved, it’s 
your turn to attack!
You’ll need to choose one of the face-up Action cards in front of you to 
help push back the Tentacles.
On each of the Action cards, you’ll find several symbols which are 
explained in the table below. These symbols represent different actions, 
and you can choose to do them in whichever order you want. You don’t 
have to do all of the actions on your card. ↝
Once you have played your Action card, place it back at the bottom of 
your draw pile, and then draw another so that you always have 2 Action 
cards face-up in front of you.
To be able to push back a 
Tentacle, your Pirate must 
be on the side of the Boat 
area and covering the same 
row as the Tentacle. Plus, 
you have to use the correct 
action depending on how 
far the Tentacle is from 
the Ship (cannon, pistol or 
saber zone).
If there is a Funny Face on the chosen Action card, your 
Pirate makes a super silly face at the Kraken! This makes 
it very angry! After completing all the actions on your 
card, you must move the Kraken one spot forward on the 
Kraken Track. If it arrives on a spot with a die on it, pick 
up that die and add it to the other available dice for the rest of the game.
When the Kraken gets to the final spot on its Track, it’s really mad! The 
next Funny Face causes the Kraken to appear on the Ship board! Choose 
one of the Tentacles on the Ship board and replace it with the Kraken.
 THE KRAKEN IS ON THE SHIP BOARD!
Turn your Aid card over to side "2/2" and continue to play as explained in 
the rules above.
The Kraken takes on the color and the BUBBLES symbol of the Tentacle it 
replaced and moves like it.
Funny Faces on Action cards continue to cause the Kraken to move. 
The Kraken moves when its BUBBLES symbol (or an "Eye of the 
Kraken") appears on its color dice as well as when a player plays an 
Action card with a Funny Face on it.
Just like the Tentacles, if the Kraken is in the Saber zone when its symbol 
appears on a die, it destroys a Ship’s Rail or smashes a Hole in the Ship if 
there is no rail. It then returns to the BUBBLES space in its row. You can 
push the Kraken back just like a Tentacle: by using your actions!
If you succeed in pushing the Kraken back, place a Kraken attack token on 
its figurine and then place the Kraken on the BUBBLES space of its row. 
REMINDER 
REMINDER To win the game, you have to place 3 Kraken 
attack tokens on the Kraken figurine.
PLAY AN ACTION CARD
SPECIAL ACTION
FUNNY FACE
TIP : Move the Tentacles grouped by color, beginning with 
any “Eye of the Kraken” symbols rolled. Blank faces do not 
move the Tentacles.
Symbol
Action
Effect
Move
Move your Pirate to one of the 
adjacent areas on the Ship. You 
cannot move diagonally.
Fire a Cannon
Push a Tentacle in the Cannon 
zone of one of your rows back to its 
Push a Tentacle in the Pistol zone 
of one of your rows back to its 
Fire your Pistol
Attack with 
your Saber
Push a Tentacle in the Saber zone 
of one of your rows back to its 
Repair the Ship
Rebuild a destroyed Ship’s Rail on the 
Boat area with your character. Remem-
ber that it’s impossible to repair a Hole!
WILD
Perform any of the actions listed 
above.
BE CAREFUL! For each “Eye of the Kraken” 
rolled, move ALL
ALL the Tentacles of the corresponding 
color one space toward the Ship.
If the 4th hole token is 
placed on the Ship, all 
of the players lose!
A player’s turn is composed of 2 phases in the following order:
ASTRID
Astrid is quick and 
resourceful. She can perform 
one of the actions on her 
Action card twice (except for the 
Funny Face special action). 
BILLY
Billy is a Cannon specialist. 
When he pushes a Tentacle 
or the Kraken back by firing 
a Cannon, he can also push 
back all of the other Tentacles in 
the Cannon zone on the same side 
of the board. 
SAMUEL
Samuel knows how to 
hide from the Kraken 
better than anyone. He 
can ignore any “Eye of the 
Kraken” symbols that he gets 
when he rolls the dice.
ELENA
Elena is a great shot with 
a Pistol. When she uses 
the Fire your PISTOL 
action, she can push back any 
Tentacle or the kraken in a Pistol 
zone regardless of where 
she is on the Ship.
Each Pirate has a special ability. 
These abilities can help you defeat 
the Kraken!
P
I
R
A
T
E
S
!

The game can end in one of the following two ways:
× A Pirate places the 3rd Kraken attack token on the Kraken figurine. The Kraken has 
learned its lesson and returns to the depths of the ocean. You win the game immediately!
× The fourth Hole token is placed on the Ship. Disaster! Your Ship sinks, and you find 
yourselves stranded on a deserted island! You lose the game immediately.
 VARIANTS
VARIANTS
Here are a few suggested variants to change the game for different 
kinds of players, depending on the game experience you want.
 FOR VERY YOUNG PLAYERS
To help very young players learn the game, you can:
× Play without the Pirates’ special powers (this is the most 
complicated part of the game and playing a few times without them is 
a good way to learn and master the game).
×Play without the Kraken attack tokens (pushing the Kraken back 
one time is enough to win).
 FOR MORE EXPERIENCED PLAYERS
After you have beaten the Kraken a 
few times, you can try out a higher 
level of difficulty by using the Whirl-
pool tokens. To add a little bit more 
difficulty, place 1 Whirlpool token 
wherever you like on one of the ocean 
spaces on the Ship board (except for 
the BUBBLES spaces). 
To add a lot more difficulty, place all 
4 tokens on the board!
The Whirlpools help the Tentacles and Kraken by pushing them 
toward the Ship faster!
When a Tentacle or the Kraken runs into a Whirlpool while 
advancing, it jumps over the Whirlpool to the next space in the 
same lane. If the Whirlpool is on a SABER space, the Tentacle 
destroys the Ship’s Rail or smashes a hole in the Ship (if there is no 
rail), then returns to the BUBBLES space of its lane.
 FOR SOLO PLAYERS
FOR SOLO PLAYERS
No brave companions around right now to join your crew? 
No problem! You can play Kraken Attack solo! 
Choose two Pirates and place their pawns on the Boat area. Shuffle 
their Action cards together to form a single draw pile face-down 
and place 2 cards face-up. 
Each turn, you benefit from the special ability of the 
Pirate whose card picture is on top of the draw pile. 
The rest of the rules remain unchanged. 
END OF THE GAME
Esteban and Antoine would like to thank their family for swelling 
the ranks of the playtesters for this gaming odyssey. The characters 
appearing in Kraken attack are purely fictional. No Kraken was harmed 
during the development of this game.
The whole team at LOKI would like to thank the Ludres school and the 
primary section of the Franco-Hellenic high school of Athens for their active 
participation in the playtesting process and for their feedback on the game.
A WORD FROM THE AUTHORS AND THE TEAM
A WORD FROM THE AUTHORS AND THE TEAM
Designers: Esteban & Antoine Bauza
Project Lead: Aurélie Raphaël
Illustrator: Betowers
Graphic Designer: Allison Machepy
Copy Editors: Alain Wernert, 
Mathilde Audinet
3D Designer: Dominique Breton 
& PLES
Translator: Timothy Marcroft, 
Stephan Brissaud & Dr Vargo
CREDITS
©2020 IELLO USA LLC - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
IELLO USA LLC - 5550 Painted Mirage Rd. 
Suite 320 - Las Vegas, Nevada 89149 USA
Phone: 702-818-1789. https://iellousa.com