®
BASIC
GAME
RULES
INTRODUCTION:
KREMLIN is a game of political satire for 3-6 players based loosely
on the Soviet Politburo. Each player represents a faction within the
Communist Party maneuvering for control of the government. While
the machinations of the "Evil Empire" have been exaggerated for the
sake of humorous play, the game is not without educational value
insofar as it provides a long-term view of the Soviet government that
does not wander far off the historical track.
CONTENTS:
one playing board
one Basic Game rules folder
one Advanced Game rules folder
26 Politician cards
34 Intrigue cards (used only in the Advanced Game)
one Influence Points Pad
one sheet of die-cut playing pieces
one 20-sided die
THE GAMEBOARD:
The gameboard has 13 slots for the placement of various Politicians
in descending order of rank and importance from top to bottom and
left to right. Only the top eight slots represent voting members of the
Politburo and are listed in the order of their Rank and voting order:
Top Slot
1st Level Slots
2nd Level Slots
1. Party Chief
2. KGB Head
3. Foreign Minister
4. Defense Minister
5. Ideology Chief
6. Industry Minister
7. Economy Minister
8. Sport Minister
Voting
Order
1st Alternate
for Spy
Investigation
Funeral
Commission
Powers
Replacement
Powers
The Politburo is composed of three levels; the Party Chief slot with
a Purge Number of 18, three 1st Level slots (KGB, Foreign Minister,
Defense Minister) with a Purge Number of 14, and four 2nd Level
slots (Ideology Chief, Industry, Economy and Sport Ministers) with
a Purge Number of 10. Below the Politburo are five slots represent-
ing Candidates for promotion to the Politburo with a Purge Number
of 6. The area at the bottom is reserved for the People—a collective
breeding ground of Party members waiting for promotion.
The bottom of each Politburo slot is color-coded to match the sequence
of play printed on the board. The color of the banner beneath each
Politburo slot identifies the phase(s) in which that member can be
active. The color-coded alpha-numeric code on the left side of each
Politburo banner lists the alternate powers of that Politburo slot; e.g.,
the code "3A" on the Foreign Minister banner means that he is the
first alternate (A) to perform the Spy Investigation duties in Phase 3.
The color-coded information to the right of each slot summarizes what
that Politician may do in that phase. All information on the board
printed on a white background refers only to Advanced Game rules
and should be ignored during the Basic Game.
ID letter-
Name—
Strength -
Weakness
Cyrillic Name-
THE POLITICIANS:
Each Politician card (except for "Nestor Aparatschik" who starts each
game as the sick Party Chief and cannot be controlled by any player)
contains the Politician's name, a letter in the upper left hand corner
for easy identification and a number from 50 to 80 in the upper right
hand corner representing the starting age of that Politician. The
Strength (+) and Weakness ( —) information beneath each Politician's
name is not used in the Basic Game. The humorous summary printed
on the back of each Politician's card is for flavor only and unneces-
sary for play of the game.
THE MARKERS:
Each player represents one of the factions listed at the lower
right corner of the board which are vying for power. The
strength of each faction is measured in terms of written
and/or declared Influence Points (hereafter referred to as IP).
Declared IP are represented by the colored number markers bearing
the symbol of that faction. Other game markers are shown below:
Age Stress Points (SP)
Cure 
Triple Suspicion
(used only in the
REVOLUTION variant)
Sick
Suspicion Double Suspicion
(used only in the
REVOLUTION variant)
HOW TO WIN:
The first player controlling one or more Politicians who wave a total
of three times from the rostrum at the October Parade wins. If no
player has won at the end of ten turns (years), the player controlling
the Party Chief at the end of the fifth phase of turn 11 wins. The game
can also be won by controlling the highest active Politician if there
are insufficient Politicians left to fill the Politburo (see 6.4) at the end
of any Replacement Phase.
PREPARE TO PLAY:
Give each player an Influence Point sheet, a pen, and all the Influence
markers of one faction. Place the "Nestor Aparatschik" Politician card
in the Party Chief slot with a Red Cross 
marker. Shuffle the 25
remaining Politicians and deal 12 of them face up in random order
into the remaining Politburo and Candidate slots of the board. The
four oldest of the 13 remaining Politicians are displayed in the People
box and the remainder are kept offboard beneath the People box dis-
played in order of their age. Each player then secretly records on his
Influence Sheet (in the Influence Points column) the number of IP
he has allocated to ten of the 26 listed Politicians. None can be allocated
to "Nestor". He must write a "10" in the row of the Politician he most
wants to control, a "9" in the row of another, an "8" in the row of
a third, and so on until he has written each of the numbers from 1
to 10 once each and has thereby secretly committed all of his IP to
ten of the 26 Politicians.
Age
Illustration
Ill
5. FUNERAL COMMISSION
+ 1 SP if nominee fails
Failure = 3 nay votes:
If fail: nominate rebel
If fail again: Minister accedes.
6B. May promote one level to 2nd level
or Candidate: + I SP.

Once everyone has finished recording his IP, players are free to declare
as many or as few of their written IP as they wish in an attempt to
control the actions of their Politicians by placing the numbered IP
markers of their faction on their declared Politicians. For reasons which
will become obvious as you learn the game, it is unwise to declare
many IP at the outset and foolish to declare IP on any Politician not
currently in one of the eight Politburo slots.
DECLARING INFLUENCE:
Players may declare all or part of their IP at any time and in any
order by placing appropriately numbered IP markers of their faction
on the Politician(s) of their choice. Players may never declare more
IP on a Politician than they have previously recorded for that Politician
on their Influence Sheet. The player currently displaying the most
declared IP on a Politician controls him and decides what actions he
will take. Should two or more players both have the most declared
IP on a Politician, control of that Politician belongs to the player who
placed his current declared total first. Should such placement be simul-
taneous, then the player rolling highest on a tie resolution dice roll
is given control and his marker is placed on top of the loser's to mark
his status as the holder of undisputed control.
Although IP can be declared at any time, they cannot be used to rescind
any action once dice have been rolled to resolve it or another action
has taken place (such as the vote of the next ranking Politburo member
being cast or the next action of that or subsequent phases). If changed
control of a Politician occurs after a Purge attempt, Spy Investigation,
or Funeral Commission nomination is announced, those actions are
considered to have never been declared provided the new controller
makes such a declaration before any dice are cast or the next vote is
taken. Proper game etiquette in these procedures is to allow a sufficient
pause (say five seconds) between each declared action or vote and
the following vote or dice roll to allow other players the opportunity
to assume control of the Politburo member taking the action.
EXAMPLE: The KGB Head, currently controlled by Blue, is under Investiga-
tion. Red is currently in control of Foreign Minister Palavrian with four declared
IP and votes guilty. However, Blue has five IP recorded on his Influence Sheet
for Palavrian and declares them all now in an effort to control the Foreign
Minister for this vote. If he is successful he may change Palavrian's vote to
"Innocent". However, once the next Politburo member (the Defense Minister)
announces his vote, Palavrian's current vote stands—it may not be changed.
INACTIVE POLITICIANS:
Politicians in the Sanatorium are inactive. They may neither vote nor
take actions. Any action initiative which would otherwise be available
to them passes to the next active Politician according to the color-coded
order of succession beneath each Politburo slot for that phase. A
Politician without declared IP is not considered inactive.
EXAMPLE: The KGB Head is at the Sanatorium. The option to initiate a Purge
in Phase 2 passes to the Ideology Chief (2A). Should he too be at the Sanatorium
(or his position be vacant), the option would pass to the Party Chief (2B), and
then to the Industry Minister (2C) if necessary. If all four Politicians are inactive
(or their slots vacant), the Purge Phase ends with no action taken.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY:
The game is played in ten yearly turns (although it can end earlier),
each of which is composed of eight separate phases resolved in the
following order:
1. THE CURE PHASE: A Politician with one Red
Cross 
marker on his card is considered Sick;
if he has two Red Cross markers 
he is con-
sidered III. All Politburo members in poor health
in voting order succession are asked if they will voluntarily go to or
return from the Sanatorium. Those who opt for the Sanatorium remain
in their Politburo slot but are marked with a Cure marker. Politicians
with no declared IP never go to the Sanatorium. A Politician who opts
to go to the Sanatorium must remain there throughout the year and
may remove his Cure marker only during the Cure Phase of the
following year. A Politician at the Sanatorium who is no longer in poor
health must remove the Cure marker during the next Cure Phase.
1.1 AGING: Aging does not occur automatically with the passage of
each Game Year. Instead, during this phase, the Party Chief auto-
matically ages one year regardless of his health and whether or not
he has gone to the Sanatorium. All other Politburo members—including
the Party Chief—age one year for each Red Cross (•) on their card
if they have not gone to the Sanatorium. In addition, Politicians age
one year if marked with a "?" marker—regardless of whether or not
they go to the Sanatorium. Aging is indicated by the application of
Stress Points (hereafter referred to as SP) in the form of number markers
placed over the Politician's printed age to reflect his new age. Only
the eight current Politburo members are subject to aging.
1.2 SANATORIUM EFFECTS: The health of Politicians
who go to the Sanatorium is more likely to improve than
those who remain at work. However, those who go to the
Sanatorium are more vulnerable to Purges and Investiga-
tions and may not vote while there. Politicians in the Sanatorium retain
their Politburo posts and can be promoted, demoted, or shifted within
the same level in abstentia, but are considered inactive.
1.3 JUNIOR MEMBERS: Politicians at the Candidate and People levels
neither age nor get sick. However, it is possible for Politburo members
with poor health or who have aged to be removed from the Politburo.
Those Politicians retain their current age and health status (as opposed
to their printed age) at the lower levels. Sick/Ill Politicians at the lower
levels may not go to the Sanatorium, but are not required to make
a Health dice roll during the Health Phase (see 4).
2. THE PURGE PHASE: The Head of the KGB may attempt to Purge
by naming any Politician in the Politburo or Candidate levels and rolling
the die. If he rolls greater than or equal to (>) the Purge Number
for that level, the Purge is successful, the victim is sent to Siberia,
and the KGB Head ages one SP. He may attempt another Purge or
end the phase as he chooses. If he rolls less than (<) the required
Purge Number, the victim is unaffected, the KGB Head ages three
SP, and the Purge Phase ends. The purging player must add +3 to
his dice roll if the victim is at the Sanatorium.
2.1 ORDER OF SUCCESSION: If the KGB Head declines to conduct
a Purge, the phase ends. However, if he is inactive (i.e., at the
Sanatorium) or the position is vacant, the option to conduct a Purge
passes to the Ideology Chief (2A). Should he be inactive, it would pass
to the Party Chief (2B), and then to the Industry Minister (2C). As
soon as the first active Politician with the Purge power declines the
opportunity, the Purge Phase is over.
2.2 SIBERIA: Whenever a Politician is sent to Siberia he retains any
accumulated SP and health problems. No Cures are conducted in
Siberia. However, all "?" and IP markers are removed. All players
with declared IP on that Politician must subtract them from the total
they allocated to that Politician and mark their Influence Sheet
accordingly. Politicians sent to Siberia should be displayed offboard
to the right of Siberia.
3. SPY INVESTIGATION PHASE: The Defense Minister
may call a Trial to resolve one Spy Investigation case per
year against any Politburo member already under a "?"
marker. A Trial is resolved by vote of all active Politburo
members. Votes are declared individually in voting order. The victim
is considered guilty until proven innocent. Two "Innocent" votes are
required for acquittal regardless of the number of Politburo members
voting. As the accused retains his vote (unless inactive), it is advanta-
geous to accuse an inactive Politician who cannot vote in his own
defense. A Politician with no declared IP on him does not vote except
in his own defense. If the accusation is successful, the victim is sent
to Siberia (see 2.2). If the accusation fails, the "?" marker is removed
from the accused, and the Defense Minister ages three SP.
3.1 CONDEMNATION: Instead of bringing a suspect to Trial, the
Defense Minister (or any Politburo member acting in his stead if inactive
or vacant) may condemn any one Candidate without recourse to vote
but in so doing receives two SP. The condemned Candidate is sent
to Siberia with all of the consequences of rule 2.2. He need not have
been under a "?" marker previously.
3.2 INVESTIGATIONS: Whether or not a Trial is resolved, the Defense
Minister may then investigate as many Politburo members as he wishes
by placing a "?" marker on those Politicians and aging himself one
SP for each investigation. He cannot investigate any Politician just
acquitted by Trial during that same turn.
3.3 CLOSING INVESTIGATIONS: The current Defense Minister (or
another Politburo member acting in his stead if the Defense Minister
is inactive or vacant) can close Investigations by removing "?" markers
at a cost of one SP each.
3.4 ORDER OF SUCCESSION: If the Defense Minister declines to
take any action, the phase ends. However, if the Defense Minister

is inactive or vacant, the option passes to the Foreign Minister (3A).
Should he be inactive or vacant, it would pass to the KGB Head (3B),
followed by the Party Chief (3C), and the Industry Minister (3D).
Should any active Politician with the power to take an action decline
the opportunity, the phase ends.
4. HEALTH PHASE: All members of the Politburo
must make a die roll on the Health Table. Those
who have remained at work use the "At Work"
Table; those who have gone to the Sanatorium use
the "Taking Cure at Sanatorium" Table. The die roll is cross-
referenced with the individual's current age to determine the result.
Any Politician who receives his third Red Cross ( • • • ) dies and is
buried with due honors and ceremony within the Kremlin Wall.
5. FUNERAL COMMISSION PHASE: This phase is resolved only if
the post of Party Chief is vacant. If so, the Foreign Minister must
nominate a successor other than himself from the ranks of the 1st Level.
The nominee may be inactive. Should there be no other Politician
on the 1st Level, he may nominate one from the 2nd Level. Should
no other Politburo member be available, he automatically raises him-
self to Party Chief. The Foreign Minister's nominee must be confirmed
by vote of the active Politburo. The Foreign Minister cannot vote against
his own nominee, nor can the nominee vote against himself. Three
negative votes (regardless of the number voting) defeats the nomina-
tion and ages the Foreign Minister one SP. If his first nominee fails,
the Foreign Minister must nominate another Politburo member from
among those who voted "no" for the first nominee. If this nominee
also fails, the Foreign Minister ages another SP and automatically
becomes Party Chief himself. If the Foreign Minister has no declared
IP, he automatically nominates the oldest eligible Politician.
5.1 ORDER OF SUCCESSION: A Politician may not decline the
opportunity to nominate a successor. However, if the Foreign Minister
is vacant or inactive, the nomination passes to the Ideology Chief (5A),
followed by the KGB Head (5B), Industry Minister (5C), Economy
Minister (5D), Sport Minister (5E), and Defense Minister (5F).
6. REPLACEMENT PHASE: The Party Chief may now freely shift
Politicians (both active and inactive) to new Politburo slots of his choice
within their current Level at no cost to himself.
6.1 PROMOTIONS/DEMOTIONS: The Party Chief, having finished
all shifts within current Politburo levels he cares to declare, may now
promote and demote as many or as few active or inactive Politicians
as he wishes but he ages one SP for each promotion or demotion he
declares. His promotions/demotions are limited to one step (i.e., he
may not promote a Candidate to a 1st Level post nor could he drop
a 2nd Level Minister beneath the rank of Candidate). The Party Chief
cannot demote himself.
EXAMPLE: The Party Chief wishes to demote a 2nd Level Politician to
Candidate but because there are currently no vacancies at the Candidate Level,
he must also either promote a Candidate to 2nd Level or demote a Candidate
to the People in order to open a vacancy at the Candidate Level into which
to demote the 2nd Level Minister.
6.11 PROGRESS BY AGE: After having promoted and demoted all
the Politicians he cares to, the Party Chief announces he is finished.
Each still-vacant 1st Level post is then filled in order of succession
by promoting the oldest member of the 2nd Level. If there are no
2nd Level Politicians, the oldest candidate is promoted to the vacancy.
If there are no Candidates, the oldest Politician from the People ascends
all the way to the 1st Level vacancy. No SP are inflicted for automatic
progression by age.
6.2 1ST LEVEL PROMOTIONS: The KGB Head (6A) may now
promote as many Candidates as he wishes to vacancies in the 2nd
Level Politburo and as many Politicians as he wishes from the People
to vacancies in the Candidates. Each promotion ages the KGB Head
one SP. He may not demote Politicians nor may he shift their positions
within their current level. He may promote each Politician only one
level during this phase. If inactive or unwilling to sponsor more pro-
motions, the opportunity to sponsor any remaining promotions passes
to the Foreign Minister (6B) and then to the Defense Minister (6C).
6.21 PROGRESS BY AGE: After having promoted all the Politicians
they care to, the 1st Level Politburo members announce they are
finished. Each still-vacant 2nd Level post is then filled in order of
succession by promoting the oldest Candidate. If there are no
Candidates, the oldest Politician from the People ascends to the 2nd
Level vacancy. No SP are inflicted for automatic progressions.
6.3 2ND LEVEL PROMOTIONS: The Ideology Chief (6D) may now
promote as many Politicians as he wishes to any vacancies in the
Candidates at the cost of aging one SP for each promotion he sponsors.
If inactive or not caring to sponsor any more promotions, the oppor-
tunity to sponsor any remaining promotions passes to the Industry (6E),
Economy (6F), and Sport Ministers (6G) in turn.
6.31 PROGRESS BY AGE: After having promoted all the Politicians
they care to, the 2nd Level Ministers announce they are finished. Each
still-vacant Candidate slot is then filled automatically by raising the
oldest Politician from the People.
6.4 GAME END: If due to a lack of eight living Politicians outside
Siberia, it is impossible to fill the eight Politburo posts by the end
of Phase 6, the game ends with the player controlling the highest rank-
ing active Politburo member the winner.
6.5 RULE OF THE OLD: When determining Progress by Age, a
Politician's age is the total of his printed age plus any SP he has
accumulated represented by the age markers covering his printed age.
If two or more Politicians have the same age, the one with the highest
printed age progresses.
Although a Politburo member may promote a Politician only one level
per Phase, that Politician may be promoted several times during that
phase by different Politburo members and/or be progressed several
levels at once by default due to the Progress by Age rule.
7. REHABILITATION PHASE: Each Politburo member in voting order
is given the opportunity to rehabilitate as many occupants of Siberia
as he wishes. Each Politician he releases from Siberia causes the
sponsoring Politburo member to age five SP. Released Politicians are
returned to the People complete with any aging or health problems
they took to Siberia. All undeclared IP on that returning Politician
remain unaltered.
8. PARADE PHASE: Unless in the Sanatorium taking the
Cure, the Party Chief must "stand on the rostrum at the
October Parade". If he is healthy he automatically "waves"
throughout the Parade. However if he is Sick (+), he ages
one SP and must roll greater than or equal to (>=) 7 in order to "wave"
throughout the Parade. If he is I11 (++), he ages two SP and must
roll greater than or equal to (>) 14 in order to "wave" throughout
the Parade. If he "waves" throughout the Parade, the controlling player
places his faction marker in that year of the Tally Track. The first
player to have three of his faction markers in the Tally Track wins
the game. If no one waves, place a Sick (+) marker in that year to
mark the passage of a turn without a wave.
RETIREMENT:
Any Politician who reaches the age of 96 retires from public life at
the end of the current phase and is removed from play. Having reached
the age of 96 that Politician may initiate no actions that will age him
further before he is removed.
STOP!
You have read all that is necessary to play the Basic Game.
Play it before proceeding to the Advanced Game rules.
THE SWISS VERSION
The original version of the game which won accolades in Europe
has an entirely different feel although it has almost the same rules
as the Basic Game with the following modifications:
HOW TO WIN: The game ends when one Party Chief waves three
times regardless of who controlled him during those waves. The
winner is the player who controls the Party Chief at game end.
However, if one or more other players have the same number or
more IP recorded for that Politician they win and the player actually
controlling the Party Chief loses.
AGING: Aging during the Cure Phase for any reason or combina-
tion of reasons is limited to a maximum of one SP per turn.
SIBERIA: Politicians sent to Siberia do not lose their declared IP.
Please try both versions and inform us of your preferences.