Löwenherz 
A game for 2-4 players by Klaus Teuber. Condensed rules for 3-4 players by Eric Postpischil, https://edp.org. 
Introduction 
Players are princes who gain power by controlling territory. Points come from: 
Gaining territory (especially towns), mines (when mining cards come up), and parchment cards. 
A space is one square on the board. 
A region is an area enclosed by walls (including walls printed at the board edge) containing exactly 1 castle. 
An enclosed area without a castle is a neutral zone, not a region. 
Tip: Enclose a large area. Size, towns, and hills increase power points. 
Setup 
Lay out the board frame. 
Put the first-player castle (black) in front of a player (recommended: youngest player). Player order is clockwise. 
Put each player’s power marker on the lion at the start of the power track. 
Give each player a summary card, a set of 3 decision cards, 3 castles and 12 knights of a color. 
Sort money by value and put on the red spaces on the board frame. Give 12 ducats to each player (2 each of 1, 2, 3). 
Money is kept private. 
Shuffle the 13 politics cards. Place facedown in piles of 6 and 7 cards on the purple spaces on the board frame. 
Basic Setup 
Arrange the 6 map tiles in alphabetical order (A-C in top row) with their letters at their top lefts. 
Place 3 castles and 3 knights of each color (for all 4 colors) as shown on the layout sheet for the basic game. 
Place the boundary walls as shown on the layout sheet. 
Remove A action cards from game and set up the remaining action cards: 
Shuffle each letter group. Stack facedown in order, B on top, on a blue space on board frame. 
Variable Setup 
Arrange the 6 map tiles in random positions and orientations. 
Repeat 3 times: In player order, each player puts a castle and a knight on 2 adjacent free plain spaces. 
Knights and castles may not be put on towns or hills. 
Knights may not be placed on wooded spaces during setup. 
Castles of the same prince (player) must have 6 spaces between them (exclusive) on an orthogonal path. 
With 3 players: In player order, each places a castle and a knight of the fourth color according to the above rules. 
Set up the action cards: 
Shuffle each letter group. Stack facedown in order, A on top, on a blue space on board frame. 
Play 
Play turns until the The King is dead! action card is revealed, which ends the game immediately. 
Reveal Action Card 
Turn over the top action card, putting it on the adjacent discard space. 
If the card shows a silver mine (there are 3, 1 each in groups B, C, and D): 
Each player advances their power marker 1 space for each hill space they have enclosed in their regions. 
Turn over the next action card, repeating if necessary. 
If the card shows 3 actions: 
In a 3/4 player game, the first player puts 2/1 of their decision cards on the table. 
In player order, each other player puts 1 decision card on the table. 
Resolve the actions in order from top to bottom, as described below. 
If multiple players choose any action except Money Bag, resolve who performs it by a Power Trial or Duel. 
Power Trial or Duel 
If exactly 2 players choose an action, they attempt to negotiate by offering each other ducats. 
If they agree, one pays the other and performs the action. 
If the players cannot agree or more than 2 players chose an action, they duel. 
To duel: 
Players secretly select any number (may be 0) of money cards (including treasure cards) from their hands and 
reveal them simultaneously. 
The winner pays the bank and takes the action. The other players keep their money. 
If there is a tie, the tied players duel again. If there is a second tie, nobody pays and nobody performs the action. 

Löwenherz
Take Actions 
Money Bag Action 
Take ducats as shown. If 2 or more players chose this, divide the ducats between them, discarding fractions. 
Boundary Walls Action 
Take as many boundary walls as shown. Put them on the board following these rules: 
Each wall goes on the line segment between two spaces. 
A wall may not go between a knight and a knight or castle of the same prince (color). 
A wall may not be placed inside a region. 
When a wall creates one or more regions, score them immediately. 
Score 3/5/7/9/12 points for a region of 1-4 / 5-10 / 11-20 / 21-30 / more spaces plus 5 per contained town. 
When a player has 3 regions, they may not place any more walls but may nonetheless select the wall action. 
Single Sword and Shield Action 
Either place a knight (if you have any left in stock) or expand a region. 
Place a knight: 
Place a knight in a blank (for free) or wooded (for 5 ducats) space that is empty (has no pieces). 
The knight must be orthogonally adjacent to one of your own knights or castles. 
Expand a region: 
Move and/or add border walls to add one or two spaces to one of your regions. 
Score 1 power point for each space taken over plus 5 power points for each town gained. 
The first space must be orthogonally adjacent to your region. 
The second space must be orthogonally adjacent to the region as expanded by the first space. 
You may not expand into spaces with other player’s pieces or into your own regions. 
You may expand into another player’s region only if your region has more knights than the other region. 
The other player loses 1 power point for each space lost into the expanding region. 
If the extension cuts another player’s region, creating 1 or more neutral zones from spaces that were in their 
region, deduct 3/5/7/9/12 points for each neutral zone of 1-4 / 5-10 / 11-20 / 21-30 / more spaces. 
Deduct 5 power points for each town lost, whether by direct expansion or by severing the region. 
Two Swords and Two Shields Action 
Either place 2 knights or place 1 knight and expand 1 region, in either order. (Do not perform 2 expand actions.) 
Crown and Scepter Action 
Look through either pile of politics cards and take 1 card from it, keeping it concealed. 
Alliances Card—Play an alliance card when playing a decision card and create an alliance immediately: 
Choose two orthogonally neighboring regions, one of yours and one of another player. 
Mark the alliance by rotating a shared wall 90º around its center. 
If either space bordering the wall is taken over, the alliance continues for the regions of those 2 spaces. 
Neither region in an alliance may expand into the other. 
Either player in an alliance may end it at any time by paying 10 ducats to the bank. 
Renegades Card—Play a renegade card when playing a decision card and carry it out immediately: 
Return a knight from another player’s region orthogonally bordering one of your regions to their stock. 
If you remove a knight from a wooded space, pay 5 ducats to the bank. 
You may not remove a knight that disconnects the other player’s knight(s) from their castle. 
Place a knight from your stock into your region, conforming to the usual rules and payment for placing a knight. 
Adding a knight is required; if you cannot place a knight, you may not play a renegade card. 
Treasure Card—Use a treasury card as monetary value when paying in duels or for knight fees. 
No change is given for treasury cards, but they can pay multiple fees incurred when placing two knights. 
Parchment Card—Parchment cards show power points that are scored at the end of the game. 
Bureaucracy 
All players retrieve their decision cards. 
Move the first-player castle to the player on the left and start the next turn. 
Game End 
Give each player 1 power point for each hill space in their regions. 
Score points for parchment cards. 
The player with the most power points is the new king and wins the game. 
Ties are broken by ducats, including treasure cards.
	
	
Version 1.1, January 12, 2025