RULE BOOKLET
AN INTRODUCTION
Each player is an Italian prince and begins the game with two
cities. The first building in each city is the castle. Each castle is
home to 3,000 people at the beginning of the game. These
people are represented by 3 small figures called citizens. 
During the game, each player’s goal is to increase the
population of his starting cities and to establish and expand
new cities. The basis for expansion is population: each new city
building must be occupied by a citizen figure representing
1,000 people.
A player’s first task is to obtain food for his people. As the
population of a player’s cities grows, so must the food supply.
Food is produced by castles and farm houses when they are
built adjacent to farm land. But the growth of a city has other
limits. A city’s population may not exceed 5,000 (5 citizen
figures) until it has a market place. A city’s population may not
exceed 8,000 (8 citizen figures) until it has a fountain or a
public bath, which must be built next to a lake. With both a
market place and a water supply, a city’s population may grow
without limit. With their basic needs met, people feel secure
and look beyond their basic needs for the services the city can
provide.
As the cities grow and seek to provide the services their people
want, the players build new buildings like statues (for culture),
schools (for education), and public baths (for health). Once
each year, the people express their feelings for which of the three
services is most important to them. If they choose culture, the
buildings with the white arches are the most important, if they
choose education, the buildings with the black arches are the
most important, and if they choose health, the buildings with
the blue arches are the most important.
For example, if the people choose culture, the people in each city
compare the culture of their city (the number of white arches
on the buildings in the city) with that of all neighboring cities.
When they find a neighboring city with greater culture, 1,000
people (1 citizen figure) move to that city. It is possible for a
city to lose several citizen figures if several neighboring cities
offer better services. If, due to such defections, a city does not
have enough citizen figures to support the buildings (one figure
per building), the excess buildings must be demolished. When,
for example, a farm house is demolished, the city loses the food
production that the farm house provided. This loss of food can
result in further defections if the people do not have enough to
eat. Thus, in a single year, a city that has not kept pace with
its neighbors can suffer a catastrophe that can end its expansion
for the rest of the game.
This competition among the cities keeps players on their toes
throughout the game. Early in the game, when cities are
somewhat isolated, players have time to plan and build their
cities with an eye toward the future. But, when cities grow to
less than three hexagonal spaces apart, the competition begins
and players must build to satisfy the people’s immediate needs
or their citizens will vote with their feet for the city that offers
the services they desire. Thus, a wise player will be ever
watchful of the growth of neighboring cities. When cities
become neighbors, it is an opportunity for both cities to attract
citizens from the other.
In the end, the player who can best manage the growth of his
cities, giving his people the food they always need and the health,
education, and culture they sometimes desire, will be the winner.
Contents
1 board
141 building tokens
22 terrain tiles
130 citizen figures (dark gray)
20 citizen figures (4 per player color) 
32 gold coins
65 food tokens (30 large and 35 small)
74 cards
27 voice of the people cards
15 actions cards
32 politics cards
5 summary cards
1 starting player token
The author:
Gerd Fenchel, born in 1968, is a technical engineer and
lives in the Black Forest. He worked on the game for more
than 5 years. La Città is Gerd Fenchel’s second published
game.
Development: TM-Spiele
Graphics: Claus Stephan (Grafikstudio Krüger)
DTP: Pohl & Rick
Photo: Dirk Hoffmann (Fotostudio Bauer)
English translation/editing: Jay Tummelson
The author and publisher thank all those who helped with
the testing and reading of the rules. The author gives
special thanks to Gernot Köpke, Enrico Marchio, Markus
Caspari, Anna, and Christofero.
Note: The Latin expression on the starting player token
and the sides of the box means, “The master was richly
honored and rewarded”.
Art.-Nr.: 68 25 14
© 2000 KOSMOS Verlag
Rio Grande Games
PO Box 45715
Rio Rancho, NM 87174
RioGames@aol.com
www.riograndegames.com
MADE IN GERMANY
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preparation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
– Initial board setup for beginners for 5 players . . . . . 3
– Setup for experienced players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Playing the game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
The goal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
1 change the starting player . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2 layout the voice of the people cards . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
3 quarry earnings (in gold coins) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4 population growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
5 five political rounds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
overview
A Action cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
How to build a building. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Important building rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Tips for building. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
B Politics cards. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Politics cards for building buildings . . . . . . . 5
Politics cards with other actions . . . . . . . . . . 5
6 tally the voice of the people . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
7 citizen relocation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
8 feeding the citizens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
End of a game year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
End of the game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
example development of a city. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Strategy tips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Initial setups for beginners
The game for 2 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The game for 3 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The game for 4 players . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Contents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
The game for 2 players
With two players, the players may
only build on the light green
hexagons. The brownish and yellow-
green hexagons are not in the game.
INITIAL SETUPS FOR BEGINNERS
The game for 3 players
With three players, the players may
only build on the light green and
brownish hexagons. The yellow-
green hexagons are not in the game.
For example, a quarry built on space 1
provides 1 gold coin, on space 2 a
quarry provides nothing, and quarries
on the 3 spaces provide 2 gold coins
each.
The game for 4 players 
With four players, the players use the
entire board, just as in the game with
five players.
For example, a farm house built on
space 1 provides 4 food tokens, and a
farm house built on space 2 provides
only 2 food tokens.
3 3
a renaissance game of city building
Gerd Fenchel
®
RIO
GRANDE
GAMES
RULE BOOKLET

PREPARATION
Before the first game, carefully remove all tiles and tokens
from their frames.
Place the board in the middle of the table.
Note: the board has several large triangular land areas,
separated by the hexagonal paths on which the players will start
and expand their cities. The large land areas have different
terrain characteristics, randomly determined at the start of each
game, except for the areas at the edges of the board. Each
terrain type offers neighboring buildings different resources.
The area in front of each player is his play area.
Sort the hexagonal building tokens.
Some building tokens are the same on both sides and some
have different buildings on each side. Stack the tokens by
type next to the board in easy reach of all players. Where
tokens have differing sides, create two stacks, one for each
side. The arches on the tokens indicate that the building
provides services in health, education, or culture.
• farm house/quarry (40)
Create twin stacks, one with the farm house face up and
the other with the quarry face up.
FARM HOUSE QUARRY
• market place (16)
Create a single stack.
• palace/hospital (20)
Create twin stacks, one with the palace face up and one
with the hospital face up.
PALACE HOSPITAL
• statue/cathedral (15)
Create twin stacks, one with the statue face up and one
with the cathedral face up.
STATUE CATHEDRAL
• school/university (15)
Create twin stacks, one with the school face up and the
other with the university face up.
SCHOOL UNIVERSITY
• fountain/public bath (15)
Create twin stacks, one with the fountain face up and the
other with the public bath face up.
FOUNTAIN PUBLIC BATH
Place all the terrain tiles in a single face-up stack.
There are three different types of terrain tiles with the
following characteristics:
• farm land (14)
Farm lands provide food, which citizens need to live. 
Each farm land terrain tile has 1, 2, or 3 food symbols 
(wheat).
Note: a farm land terrain tile with 1 food symbol can provide
one unit of food, a farm land terrain tile with 2 food symbols
can provide 2 units of food, and a farmland terrain tile with 3
food symbols can provide 3 units of food. A player can only
harvest the food and feed his people if he has built a castle or
farm house next to the farm land.
• mountain range (3)
The mountain ranges provide 
marble to be used in building. 
When a player builds a quarry
next to a mountain range, he 
can earn gold.
• lake (5)
Water is necessary to the health of 
a city’s population. When a player 
builds a fountain or public bath 
next to a lake, the population 
limit of 8 citizen figures for the
city is eliminated.
Each player chooses a color, takes 4 castles in that
color, and places them in his play area
Here are the castles in the five colors.
Note: the castle is always the building that a player uses to start
a city. When a player starts a new city, he places 3 citizen figures
on the castle.
Place the small gray citizen figures next to the board
as the general citizen supply. 
All players use the same gray citizen figures in their cities.
The color of the castle determines which player owns the
city. When a citizen changes cities, it changes alliances.
Each player takes the 4 small citizen figures in his 
color. The use of these figures is explained later.
Sort the cards into three stacks: 
BACK FRONT
• 15 actions cards
FRONT
BACK
• 32 politics cards
FRONT
BACK
• 27 voice of the
people cards
Each player takes the 3 action cards in his color
(frame on-the back) and places them face up on the
table in his play area. 
The 3 player action cards are the same for each player,
except for the color of the frame on their backs. Place the
unused player action cards back in the box. 
Prepare the 32 politics cards.
Shuffle the politics cards thoroughly and place 7 face up in
the spaces provided at the edge of the board. Place the
remaining politics cards face down in a stack next to the 7
face up cards in the space provided (see figure below). Used
cards are discarded in the space next to the face down stack.
feeding the citizens
player counts his food units and the citizen figures in all
his cities.
If the player has at least as many food units as citizen
figures, all are fed and his turn in this phase ends.
Note: a player shares all his food among all his cities. 
Thus, the city where food is produced is not important in
terms of where the citizens who use it live.
If a player has more citizen figures than food units, he
must remove the excess citizen figures from his cities
and return them to the common supply. They have
wondered off searching for food and do not relocate to
other cities.
Note: after the players have removed their excess citizen
figures, they may have to demolish unsupported buildings.
This is done as explained above in “Demolishing
unsupported buildings”. The colored citizen figures are not
counted as citizen figures. Please note that colored citizen
figures may indicate the presence of a rich harvest and
make the appropriate food unit adjustments.
Penalty for having unfed citizens
Normally, a player plays 1 action or politics card in each of
the 5 political rounds.
If a player has lost citizen figures because he could not
feed them, he will only play 4 action or political cards
in the next game year.
On his first turn in the political rounds in the next game
year, the player turns one of his action cards face down,
but takes no action. This is his penalty for not feeding
all his people in the previous year. Thus, he will have,
at most, only 2 action cards to play in this game year.
End of a game year
The game year has now ended. Place the 4 face up “voice of
the people” cards face up on the voice of the people discard
pile. Players may want to place the groups of 4 at right
angles to each other to help them count game years. 
The players place the politics cards they played face up on
the politics discard pile.
Players take their 3 action cards and place them face up in
their play areas. They are available to be used in the next
game year.. 
Players who used their colored citizen figures during the
game year, return them to their play areas. They are
available to be used in the next game year.
The next game year begins.
Special rule for the 6th game year
In the last (6th) game year, players may not use the “rich
harvest” politics card to help feed their citizens.
END OF THE GAME
The game ends after 6 game years.
Note: at the end of the game, there are 3 face down, unused
“voice of the people” cards. Players can use the voice of the
people cards to help them count game years by placing groups
from successive years at right angles to each other. Of course,
when there are only three left, the game is in its sixth and last
year.
Scoring: 
Each citizen figure is worth 1 victory point.
Each city that has at least one arch of each of the 3
services (culture, education, and health), is worth 3
victory points.
Note: As a hospital has arches for both education and
health, it can be especially important to a city.
Each player who lost one or more citizen figures in the
last round because he could not feed them, loses 5
victory points.
The winner is the player with the most victory points. If two
or more players tie with the most victory points, the player
among them who has the most gold, is the winner..
example: development of a city
Starting a city
What a beautiful place for a castle!
It sits between two farm lands,
which will enable it to produce 4
food units each year! That is
enough to feed 4 citizens!
In addition, there is a lake (for
water) and a mountain range (for a
quarry and the gold it earns)
nearby.
First game year
In phase 4, a new citizen figure is
added to the castle, giving the city 4
citizen figures. Of the 4, one must
stay in the castle, but the other 3
may move out to occupy new
buildings as they are built.
First political round
You play an action card to build a
farm house next to the castle and
two farm lands. You move a citizen
figure from your castle to the farm
house. This gives you an additional
4 food units per year. Now you can
feed 8 citizens!
Second political round
You play a second action card to
build a quarry next to the farm
house and a mountain range. You
move a citizen figure from your
castle to the quarry. In subsequent
years, the quarry will earn you 1
gold coin each year. 
Third political round
You play your third action card
(your last) to build a market place
next to your castle. You place a
citizen figure from the common
supply (not your castle) on the
market place. Now your city can
accommodate up to 8 citizen
figures instead of only 5.
Fourth political round
You take the face up politics card
“public bath”, play it, and pay 1
gold to build a public bath next to
your castle, market place, and a
lake.
Now 
your 
city 
can
accommodate an unlimited number
of citizen figures, as it has a market
place and a public bath.
Fifth political round
In your fifth political round, you can build no more buildings as you have
no available citizen figures. Also, you have played all three action cards and
have no gold to play a building politics card. As all 7 face up politics cards
require you to spend gold, you take the topmost face down politics card
and place it face down as your action (as you have no action you can legally
take).
What happens next?
The rest of this year is uneventful as you have plenty of food and no
neighbors. In phase 3 of the next game year, you earn 1 gold coin for your
quarry and in phase 4, you add one citizen figure to your castle.
Strategy tips
Placing a castle next to two rich farm land tiles gives you
plenty of food to feed your people. Starting a castle next to
a single poor farm land tile can doom your city to failure. 
With an optimal castle placement, you can leave room to
build an adjacent farm house (as in the above example) to
give you twice the food from your rich farm lands.
Try to build your quarries in the first two rounds. This will
maximize your gold earnings. Building quarries in later
rounds gives too little gold for the effort.
Try to start your cities near lakes. Cities without access to
water may not grow beyond 8 citizen figures and, thus, 8
buildings.
The 3 bonus points you receive for having all 3 services in
a city can be the difference between winning and losing. Try
to get this bonus in each of your cities.
A city may attract a citizen figure on its player’s turn, but
have no room for it and then lose a citizen figure on another
player’s turn; thus, the city has a net loss of a citizen figure.
HEALTH
EDUCATION
CULTURE

PLAYING THE GAME
The goal
The winner is the player with the most victory points
(citizen figures and cities with 3 colors of arches) at the end
of the game (after 6 game years).
Each year is played in 8 phases:
the sequence of the phases in a game year
1 change the starting player
2 lay out the voice of the people cards
3 quarry earnings (in gold coins)
4 population growth
5 five political rounds: players take turns in clockwise 
order playing 1 political or action card and 
executing the action on the card 
6 tally the voice of the people
7 citizen relocation
8 feeding the citizens
1 change the starting player
The starting player for the first year is chosen in the setup.
After the first year, the starting player gives the starting
player token to the player on his left who becomes the new
starting player.
2 lay out the voice of the people cards
The starting player draws four new voice of the people cards
from the stack. He draws the 4 topmost cards, places 1 face
up on the dark circle, and the other 3 face down on the
other circles. 
Note: the four cards are the voice of the people for this year.
There are nine cards each of the three services: health,
education, and culture. The cards indicate which of the three
services the people desire: health (buildings with blue arches),
culture (buildings with white arches) or education (buildings
with black arches). 
3 quarry earnings (in gold coins) 
player takes their earnings for the quarries they have built
next to mountain ranges. For each quarry a player has that
is next to a mountain range, he takes 1 gold coin. If a quarry
is next to 2 mountain ranges, the player takes 2 gold coins
for that quarry
4 population growth
player adds 1 citizen figure to each of his cities. He places
the new citizen figure for each city on the castle in that city. 
If a city already has 5 citizen figures, a player may not
add a citizen figure to the city unless it has a market
place. Only cities with market places may have more
than 5 citizen figures.
If a city already has 8 citizen figures (and, therefore, a
market place), a player may not add a citizen figure to
the city unless it has a fountain or a public bath. Only
cities with a fountain or a public bath (and a market
place) may have more than 8 citizen figures. There are
no further limits to adding citizen figures. 
Note: when counting citizen figures in a city, count all citizen
figures in the castle and all connected buildings. 
5 five political rounds
Overview
There are 5 consecutive political rounds. In each round, the
players take turns playing cards, one at a time, in clockwise
order, starting with the starting player. On a player’s turn,
he plays one card and executes the action shown on it. A
political round is over when all players have played one
card. The next political round follows immediately.
Note: players may expand their cities in the political
rounds.The expansion of a city is about food, gold, and the
services a city offers its citizens. The services offered by a city are
measured by the arches present on many of the building tokens.
The arches come in 3 colors: white for culture, black for
education, and blue for health. The more arches that a city has
of a given color, the more it will appeal to people looking for
those kinds of services in a city: culture, education, or health.
In each political round, the player may play one of the two
different kinds of cards:
• Action cards
Each player has 3 action cards of his own that he may
play in the 5 political rounds. To play an action card, he
announces the action, executes the action, and places the
card face down on the table.
Note: at the end of each year, the players take back any
action cards they have played by placing them face up in
their play areas. Thus, a player has his 3 action cards
available for each set of political rounds. 
• Politics cards
Instead of playing an action card, a player may take one
of the face up politics cards and play it immediately.
When playing a politics card, a player takes one of the
7 face up politics cards, places it face up on the table,
executes the action shown on the card, and then turns
the card face down. At the end of the 5 political rounds,
players place all politics cards played in the politics card
discard pile.
A player is not required to play a minimum number of
action cards in a set of political rounds. So, for example, a
player may play no action cards and 5 politics cards if he
chooses.
Action cards
When a player wants to play one of his action cards, he
selects which of the possible actions he wants to execute,
announces that to the other players, and then places the
card face down to show it has been used.
Possible actions on the action cards:
• Take 2 gold coins.
Or
• Start a new city.
The player takes one of his castle tokens and places it
on an empty hexagonal space on the board. 
Note: players place their castles so there are at least 3 empty
hexagons between the castle, along a path, and all other
cities (whether the city belongs to the player or to an
opponent). 
The player moves one spare citizen figure from one of
his castles to the new castle. He then puts two citizen
figures on the new castle from the general citizen supply.
If the new castle is next to one or more farm lands, he
takes the appropriate number of food tokens from the
supply to represent this added food production.
Note: a player may only start 1 new city each game year.
Or
• Build a small building.
Small, in this case, means a building that has no more
than one arch. The possible small buildings are:
– Farm house (no arch)
A farm house (like a castle) produces food when built
next to farm land terrain. Thus, a farm house is best 
built next to farm land as that gives a player the 
greatest value for the building.
– Quarry (no arch)
A quarry produces 1 gold coin each game year when
built next to a mountain range. If a quarry is next to
two mountain ranges, it produces 2 gold coins.
– School (black arch)
A school gives a city one service point in education.
– Statue (white arch)
A statue gives a city one service point in culture.
– Market place (no arch)
A market place enables a city to grow beyond 5 citizen
figures (to a maximum of 8 without a fountain or 
public bath). Each city may have just one market 
place.
– Fountain (blue arch)
A fountain gives a city one service point in health. A
fountain may only be built on a space that is next
to lake terran. To use the ability of a fountain to
allow a city to grow beyond 8 citizen figures, the city
must also have a market place.
How to build a building
Building a new building is very simple: the player plays the
card that allows the building to be built, takes the building
token from the supply, and places it on an empty hexagon
next to the castle or any other building in the city.
The player then takes a spare citizen figure from the
castle in this city and moves it to the new building. To
be spare, the citizen figure must not be the last citizen
figure in the castle.
When there are no more building tokens of the type
wanted, the building cannot be built. If the building
being built is one of those with a different building on
its back side and there are still tokens in the building’s
twin stack, the player may use one of these by flipping
it over. 
Important building rules
Available citizens: A player may only build a new
building in a city if he has a spare citizen figure in the
city’s castle to place on the building. That is, a player
can only add a building to a city when he has at least
two citizen figures in his castle.
Exception: when building a market place, the player takes
a citizen figure from the general supply and places it on
the market place. He does not move a citizen figure from
elsewhere in the city as with other new buildings.
Building place: A new building must be placed on an
empty space next to a building already in the city.
Limitation: A player may not build a building that
connects one city to another, even if both cities are his.
There must always be at least one empty space, along a
path, separating two cities.
Fountains and public baths must be built next to lake
terrain! To emphasize this, the tokens are marked with
blue waves.
A player may not voluntarily demolish a building in
one of his cities for any reason. However, a player may
be forced to demolish a building if he does not have the
population to support it.
Tips for building:
The costs
Small buildings do not cost anything! A player need only play
an action card to build a small building. When a player wants
to build using a politics card, he must pay gold based on the
value of the building (the more valuable the building, the more
gold it costs). When the card, “master builder” is played, the
player must pay to build even small buildings.
Adjacent terrain
Many buildings have value or increased value when they are
built next to specific terrain. So, for example, building a farm
house next to two farm lands with 2 and 3 food symbols is
much more valuable than building it next to a farm land with
1 food symbol and a lake. 
Defection
As long as adjacent cities are separated by greater than two
empty hexagons, along the path, the people in those cities are
content and will not defect. However, when cities are separated
by less than three empty spaces, they become neighbors and the
people living in the cities will compare services (health,
education, or culture) in the two and may choose to defect to
the other city. 
Politics cards
Instead of playing an action card in a political round, a
player may take one of the face up politics cards and play it,
but he must play it immediately.
Note: some politics cards require gold payments to be played. A
player taking such a card must have the gold to play the card
and must pay it immediately. A player may not take a politics
card and save it for later when he has the gold or desire to play
it.
When a player takes a politics card, he must play it
immediately. To play the card, the player places it face
up and executes the instructions on the card. Then he
places the card face down.
The players place the action and political cards they play
face down to track the number of political rounds they
have played. When a player has 5 face down cards, he
has played 5 political rounds. 
There will always be 7 face up political cards for a player
to choose from: when a player takes a face up politics
card, he draws the topmost card from the politics stack
and places it face up in the empty space. 
When the politics card stack is exhausted, shuffle the
politics cards in the discard pile and turn them face down
to create a new politics card stack.
If a player is unable or unwilling to use any of the face up
politics cards and has used all his action cards in this set of
political rounds, he draws the topmost card from the face
down politics stack and places it face down in his play area
as his turn in that political round.
There are two kinds of politics cards:
• politics cards for building buildings and
• politics cards with other actions.
Politics cards for building buildings
Players use politics cards to build the more valuable
buildings. Such buildings are built using the same rules as
for the small buildings, but offer more service points and
also cost more gold coins.
Note: The higher-valued buildings are only built using certain
politics cards. They are not built as small buildings are with
action cards. As with the small buildings, when building tokens
of one type are exhausted, no more buildings of that type may
be built (unless, of course, one becomes available when a player
must demolish a building). 
Palace:
A palace costs 1 gold coin to build and
provides 2 service points of culture.
Cathedral:
A cathedral costs 3 gold coins to build and provides 
3 service points of culture.
University:
A university costs 3 gold coins to build
and provides 3 service points of education.
Hospital:
A hospital costs 1 gold coin to build and provides 1
service point of health and 1 service point of education.
Note: although the hospital provides a service point of health,
it does not need to be placed next to a lake. With two services
(arches), building a hospital makes it easier to have all three
services in a city.
A hospital does not substitute for the requirement to have a
fountain or public bath to grow a city beyond 8 citizen
figures.
Public bath:
A public bath costs 1 gold coin to build and provides 
2 service points of health. A public bath must be built
next to lake terrain.
Politics cards with other actions
Master builder
When this card is played, the player pays the indicated
amount of gold to build one building of his choice:
For 1 gold, any small building (farm house, quarry, school,
statue, market place, and fountain).
For 2 gold, any medium building (palace, hospital, and
public bath). 
For 4 gold, any large building (cathedral and university).
Bread and games
A player can use this card to increase the value of one of
his cities in one of the services. He places one of his
colored citizen figures on one arch on a building in this
city, This adds 1 service point of the kind represented by
that arch. 
For 0 gold, place one of your colored citizen figures on one
arch in one building in one of your cities.
For 2 gold, place two of your colored citizen figures on one
arch in one building in one of your cities.
For 5 gold, place three of your colored citizen figures on
one arch in one building in one of your cities.
Each colored citizen figure counts as 1 service point of the
kind represented by the arch.

Prepare the 27 voice of the people cards
Shuffle the voice of the people cards thoroughly and place
them face down on the board next the the four brown
circles. There are 3 extra cards so that players cannot count
cards for the last year.
Place the food tokens and the gold coins next to the 
board.
• Gold coins
Each player takes 1 gold coin at
the beginning of the game. Players 
may earn gold coins during the 
game with the help of quarries and 
the use of action cards. 
• Food tokens
A player’s food tokens represent the amount of food his
cities can produce in a year. They are not a food supply. 
Players take food tokens when they build castles
and farm houses next to farm land.
small token ‘1 food unit
large token ‘5 food units
Each player takes a summary card.
Place the starting player token 
next to the board.
Initial board setup for beginners 
for 5 players
We recommend players use the initial board setup for their
first game. The initial board setups for 2, 3, and 4 players
are shown on the last page of these rules.
I
Place the terrain tiles on the board as shown in the
figure. 
II Each player takes two of his castle tokens and places
them on the board as shown in the initial setup figure.
After that, each player takes six citizens and places three
on each of his castles on the board.
III Take food tokens
Note: castles produce food when placed next to farm land. 
When a castle is next to farm land, it produces as many
units of food as there are food symbols on the farm land. 
There are farm lands with 1, 2, and 3 food symbols.
Each symbol allows a neighboring castle (or farm house) to
produce one food unit. If a castle is next to two farm lands, 
the castle produces food from both farm lands.
Each player counts the food symbols on the farm lands
next to his castles, takes a corresponding number of
food tokens from the supply, and places them on the
table in his play area.
A player’s food tokens are not a food supply or means
of payment. They only represent the number of
citizens the player can support in his cities. 
example:
The blue player’s castle is
next to two terrain areas
with farm land
(3 food symbols and 
1 food symbol). 
‘ The blue player takes 
4 small food tokens. 
IV Choose a starting player using any method you prefer:.
perhaps the player who most recently visited Italy. He
takes the starting player token and begins the first year.
Setup for experienced players
I
One player shuffles the terrain tiles face down and then
places the tiles face down on all the empty triangular
spaces on the board. After all have been placed face
down, he turns them all face up.
The different colored paths have special meaning when
playing with fewer than four players. For details on this,
please see page 8.
II Choose a starting player. The starting player begins the
game with the initial placing of castles. He takes one of
his castles, places it on the hexagon of his choice (on one
of the paths on the board), and places 3 citizen figures
on it. If it is next to farm land, he takes food tokens
equal in number to the number of food symbols on the
farm land areas. 
III Then the player to his right takes a turn, and then the
player to his right, and so on (in counter-clockwise
order around the table). Each player places a castle, puts
3 citizens on it, and takes food tokens, if appropriate.
Note: players place their castles so there are at least 3 empty
hexagons between the castle, along a path, and all other
castles (whether the castle belongs to the player or to an
opponent). 
IV When all players have placed their first castle on the
board, the last player places a second castle on the
board, puts 3 citizens on it, and takes any appropriate
food tokens. He is followed by the player to his left,
then the player to his left, and so on around the table (in
clockwise order). 
V The initial placing of castles is complete when all
players have placed two castles. The player to the left of
the player who placed the last castle becomes the new
starting player and starts the first year. 
When a player places one of his colored citizen figures on a
small building, he increases its service value from 1 to 2. For
example, if he places one of his colored citizen figures on a
school, he increases its education service value from 1 to 2.
Similarly, if a player places a colored citizen figure on a
Palace, he increases its cultural service value from 2 to 3.
As a hospital has 2 different colored arches, a player must be
careful to place his colored citizen figure on the arch he
wants to add value to. He cannot choose later.
If a player places 2 or more colored citizen figures on a
building, he adds 1 service point for each figure. If a player
plays another “bread and games” card, he may add colored
citizen figures to this building or to another building in the
same city or to a building in one of his other cities.
Note: The colored citizen figures are not citizens. They need
not be fed and do not count as population. Each player has just
4 colored citizen markers and is limited to these 4 each year for
use with “bread and games” and “rich harvest”. The impact
lasts for just the current year. After the year is over and scored,
the player must return his colored citizen figures to his supply.
Golden times
A player uses this card to add citizens to one of his cities: 
For 0 gold, place one citizen in one of your cities.
For 2 gold, place two citizens in one of your cities.
For 5 gold, place three citizens in one of your cities.
Note: with more citizens, a player may add more buildings to
a city, but he must also have enough food to feed them or they
will leave. A player may not add citizens to 2 cities when he
plays this card.
Rich harvest
A player uses this card to double the food production
of one of his farm houses for one game year.
The player places one of his colored citizen figures
on the farm house (not castle) of his choice: usually,
the one that produces the most food. For example, a player
who uses this card to add a colored citizen figure to a farm
house that produces 4 food in a year, will get an additional
harvest of 4 food in the “feeding the people” phase. A
player may not play 2 “rich harvest” cards on the same farm
house in a game year.
Note: each player has just 4 colored citizen markers and is
limited to these 4 each year for use with “bread and games” and
“rich harvest”. The impact lasts for just the current year. After
the year is over and scored, the player must return his colored
citizen figures to his supply.
Polling the people
A player uses this card to learn more about the
desires of the people for the current game year.
The player looks (without showing or telling other
players) at two of the face-down “voice of the
people” cards. After looking, he replaces the cards 
where they were face down.
For 2 gold, a player may look at all 3 face down “voice of
the people” cards. The player must decide before looking at
any cards, whether to pay to look at all 3 or not.
Note: by using this card, a player knows 3 or 4 of the 4 “voice
of the people” cards and can use this knowledge to add
buildings with the desired services to his cities.
End of a player’s turn in a political round
When a player, on his turn, has played a political or action
card, his turn ends. The player to his left now takes his turn.
and so on around the table.
End of a political round
When all players have played a card, the round ends and
another begins. When all players have played 5 cards, the
phase ends.
6 tally the voice of the people
Turn over the 3 face down “voice of the people” cards. The
4 cards together express the wishes of the people for this
game year. This can be for any of the three services:
education, culture, or health.
If there are more cards of one of the services than either
of the other two, that service is the voice of the people
for this year..
If two services tie with 2 cards each, either of the two
may be used by players as the voice of the people for this
year.
In the next phase, some citizens may choose to relocate to
neighboring cities if those cities offer better services
matching the service chosen as the voice of the people.
citizen relocation
player checks all his cities, one at a time in the order he
chooses, for relocating citizens.
There is no citizen relocation between the cities of a
player.
Citizens will not relocate if the distance between two
cities, along the path, is greater than 2 hexagons. Cities
greater than 2 hexagons apart are not neighbors.
When the distance between two cities, along the path,
is 1 or 2 hexagons, relocation is possible between cities
of opposing players.
When a player finds one of his cities that has one or more
neighbors, he checks to see if his city has more service points
than each neighboring city in the service chosen as the “voice
of the people” this year.
If the player’s city has more service points, he gets one
citizen figure from the opposing city, which he places on
the castle of his city.
If a player’s city has more service points then several
neighboring cities, the city gets 1 citizen figure from
each.
Note: if the player’s city has no room for the new citizen
figures because it has reached a limit, the citizen figures are
immediately placed in the common supply.
When a city loses a citizen figure, the owner of the city
decides which citizen figure to give up. If the city has
extra citizen figures on the castle, the decision is easy
and the player gives up one of these. If the city has no
extra citizen figures on the castle, the player chooses
which building to take the citizen figure from. 
Two services tie for voice of the people
When two services tie with 2 cards each for the “voice of the
people”, both services may attract relocating citizens.
On a player’s turn, he decides for each of his cities
separately, which of the two services applies. This service
(education, culture, or health) applies in all neighboring
cities to this city for this player’s turn.
For example, a player with 3 cities in a year when culture
and health are chosen, can choose culture for 2 of his cities
and health for the third.
On each player’s turn, he decides for each of his cities which
of the 2 services will be used. 
example: The voice of the people is culture and health. On her
turn, Anna chooses health for her city next to Bob’s as her city
is stronger in health than Bob’s. Bob gives her a citizen from his
city and she places it on her castle. Then, on Bob’s turn, he
chooses culture for his city next to Anna’s, as his city is stronger
in culture than hers. Anna gives him a citizen from her city
and he places it on his castle. Thus, in this case, the result is
null.
Note: It is possible for a player to have a city that attracts a
citizen figure from one neighbor and loses a citizen figure to
another neighbor.
Demolishing unsupported buildings
After all players have taken their turns at relocating citizens,
players look for buildings without a citizen figure. All such
buildings are removed (unless there are spare citizen figures
on the city’s castle) and returned to the supply stacks.
Demolished buildings must come from the edges of the
cities. A player may not demolish a building within the city
and, thus, separate the city into two or more parts. A castle
must be the last building demolished in a city.
If a city has only a castle and the last citizen figure has
been removed from the castle, the castle is demolished
and the castle token returned to the “owning” player..
When a player demolishes a farm house or a castle, he
must return a number of food tokens equal to the
amount of food that building could produce in a year.
Before demolishing buildings, a player may move the
citizen figures within a city to other buildings. This allows
him to “save” more valuable buildings and to make sure the
demolished buildings are at the edges of the city. Players
may never move buildings within or among cities.
WASTELAND*
WASTELAND*
* THE WASTELAND AT THE EDGE OF THE BOARD PROVIDES NO RESOURCES
= BORDERS WHERE RESOURCES CHANGE OR END (SEE PAGE 8)