FÜR 3 – 5 SPIELER
EIN SPIEL VON 
THOMAS SPITZER
A game by 
Andreas Odendahl and Michael Keller
for 1-4 players

1.0 INTRODUCTION
In La Granja, 1‐4 players control small farms by the
Alpich pond near the village of Esporles on Majorca.
During the course of the game, the players try to
expand their farms steadily into the mighty country
estate La Granja. They also seek to deliver goods to
the village. Here, speed is everything. 
La Granja is a fascinating game that requires careful
planning. Successful players must learn to cope
with the imponderability of the dice and cards as
well.
2.0 COMPONENTS 
AND IMPORTANT TERMS
Each copy of La Granja contains:
✿1 game board
✿4 player tableaus
✿66 farm cards
✿9 revenue dice
✿100 player markers (wooden octahedrons; 
25 each in the 4 player colors)
✿4 wooden discs 
(1 each in the 4 player colors)
✿16 donkey markers (4 markers each per player)
✿38 silver “coins” (values 1 and 3)
✿66 victory point markers (values 1, 3, 5, 10)
✿4 game order markers (with numbers 1 to 4)
✿24 roof markers
✿24 craft markers
✿3 building order markers (with numbers 1 to 3)
✿4 play caids
✿2 rules booklets (English and German)
✿2 glossaries (English and German)
2.1 The Game Board
The center of La Granja´s game board depicts the
market place of the village Esporles. It consists of
hexagonal market spaces. Each space has a 
number (value) between 2 and 6. Market spaces
featuring an “X” cannot be entered in a 2‐ or 
3‐player game, see 4.0.
Six craft buildings are located at the edge of the
market. Four different symbol rows (one per 
player) are assigned to each craft building. Farm
goods or trading goods shown by smybols in the
rows have to be delivered to the craft buildings in
question by the players. There are also spaces for
matching craft markers next to the symbol rows.
At the left side of the game board the so called 
revenue spaces (with dice numbers from 1 to 6) are
located.
Below and to the right are the spaces for the roof
markers (game turns 2 to 6), above of these are the
four spaces for the roof makers that are available in
the current turn.
CONTENTS
1.0 Introduction
2.0 Components and important Terms
3.0 Aim of the Game
4.0 Prepare for Play
5.0 Sequence of Play
6.0 Farm Phase
7.0 Revenue Phase
8.0 Transportation Phase
9.0 Scoring Phase
10.0 End of the Game
11.0 The Solitaire Game

The right side of the game board is home of the 
siesta track. It shows how “rested” the players are
in a game turn.
2.2 The Farm Cards
La Granja contains 66 so called farm cards. During
the game, the players take cards to their hands
and then play them by tucking them under one of
the four sides of their farm.
After playing a card, only its respective side is 
“Active” and influences the game. The information
on the other three sides of the card is irrelevant
during the further course of the game.
A card played to the left of the farm is a field. A
specific harvest good grows on a field – either
olives, grain, or grapes.
A card played to one of the
three notches at the top of
the farm is a market barrow.
A card played to the right of the farm is a farm
extension.
A card played to one of the three notches at
the bottom of the farm is a helper with special
abilities.
2.3 The Revenue Dice
There are nine dice in
the game. Depending
on the number of play‐
ers, a certain number of
dice is used and assig‐
ned to the revenue spa‐
ces of the game board.
market place with market spaces
6 revenue dice spaces
craft building with
symbol rows
Blocked in a 
2‐ or 3‐player game 
craft marker
siesta track
craft building
spaces for 
roof markers
market barrow
helper
field
farm 
extension

2.4 The Player Boards
Each player has one tableau which represents his
farm. At his farm there are six spaces for acquired
craft markers, several dens (for harvest goods and
upgraded goods) and the costs for an upgrade, 
buying and selling price for resources, a central space
for trade commodities, a pig stall with two spaces, a
table for farm goods and the costs for farm 
extensions (increasing per card), a farm house with
five spaces for purchased roof markers, a space for
played donkey markers and one space each for the
two chosen revenue dice.
Attention: While the space for trade commodities,
the dens for harvest goods and for upgraded goods
may theoretically hold any number of player markers,
the pig stall has only room for a maximum of two
pigs (therefore there are two octagonal spaces).
Farm cards may be placed at the respective spots of
all four sides of the farm; they represent various
things according to their position. At the top and 
at the bottom of the farm only three cards each may
be placed – one card into each “notch”. To the left
and to the right of the farm cards are placed 
“overlapping”. There is no limit to the number of
cards here.
space for donkey markers
space for craft
markers
table for farm 
goods and costs of
farm extensions
upgrading costs
meat den 
(upgraded goods)
revenue dice
buying price of 
a harvest good
selling price for a
harvest good
den for the 
upgraded 
goods food 
and wine
space for craft
markers
farm house – space for five roof markers
space for trade 
commodities and 
overview of their usage
fields
space 
for farm 
extensions
pig stall with
room for two 
pigs 
(three incl. 
farm extension)
space for a maximum of
three market barrows
space for a maximum 
of three helpers
den for the harvest goods
grape, grain, olive

2.5 The Game Markers
2.5.1 Silver “Coins”
Silver is the currency in La Granja. The game 
contains “coins” with a value of 1 and 3. A player
may change three “1” coins against a single “3”
coin from the “bank” (or vice versa) during the 
game. If the rules booklet mentions “1 silver” it
means one silver coin of value 1. 
2.5.2 Victory Point Markers
When a player has earned victory points, he 
immediately takes that number of victory point
markers from the pool. There are markers with 
value 1, 3, 5, and 10 victory points. A player may
“take change” for their markers at any time 
(e.g., taking a single marker of value 3 for three
markers of value 1). The players may keep the
number of their victory points secret. If the rules
booklet mentions “1 victory point”, it means one
victory point marker of value 1.
2.5.3 Craft Markers
Each craft building in the village has its own 
specific craft marker. Each player may get 
one marker at each craft building. The front side 
of the marker shows its “instant function”, see 8.3.1.
2.5.4 Roof Markers
Each player may purchase one roof marker per 
game turn. A roof marker is always advantageous.
In addition starting with the second purchased 
roof marker, a player earns victory points.
2.5.5 Donkey Markers
Each player has an identical set of four donkey
markers. In each game turn each player chooses
one donkey marker. This marker shows the 
number of deliveries (depicted by donkeys) and
sometimes the number of steps a player advances
on the siesta track of the game board (depicted by
hats).

2.5.6 Building Order Markers
La Granja contains three building order markers.
They are placed on three of the six craft buildings
of the village at the start of the game and “bar
access” to these initially.
2.5.7 Game Order Markers
These markers record the player order.
2.6 The Play Aids
The play aids summarize the sequence of one 
game turn in a compact way. Additionally it lists
how you may win victory points.
2.7 The Wooden Components
2.7.1 Player Markers/Octahedrons
Each player receives 25
player markers in his 
color. Depending on 
their placement on the
farm or the game board 
a player marker repre‐
sents various things that
a player owns or has
used.
Example: If a player marker is on the trade 
commodity space, it is a trade commodity; if it is
on an olive field, it is an olive field; if it is on the 
village´s market, it is a market stand etc.
The 25 markers are the maximum a player can 
have!
If a player has all 25 players in use (this will only
happen very rarely), he may first remove any one
player marker from his farm or the game board
before he may use it anew.
2.7.2 The Discs
The discs are first placed on the “0” space of the
siesta track of the game board. From this starting
point the discs will advance during a game turn.
2.8 Explanation of Terms
The following terms have a special meaning in 
La Granja:
✿Harvest goods: There are three kinds of harvest
goods ‐ olives, grain, and grapes. They grow on
fields, may be put into dens and may be upgraded.
All harvest goods received by a player that do not
grow on his fields have to be placed in his dens.
This marker 
indicates that the 
player has one olive.

✿Resources: Olives, grain, grapes and pigs (the
traditional porc negre) are the resources in the 
game. They may be bought, sold, or upgraded.
✿Upgrade (upgraded goods): Grapes are upgraded
to wine, pigs to cured meat, and olives and grain
are upgraded to food. An upgrade may cost silver.
✿Revenue: A player gets revenue via a die. Revenue
may be one or more resources, silver, a delivery,
one or two free upgrades, one or two steps on the
siesta track, and the drawing or playing of a card. 
✿Color Labeling: The four phases of a game turn
and its various steps are labeled by color.
Farm Phase – blue
Revenue Phase – green
Transportation Phase – grey
Scoring Phase – red
✿Trade commodity: Trade commodities may be
exchanged for advantages in resources and actions.
✿Farm: A player´s tableau (plus attached farm
cards) represent his farm.
✿Farm goods: An overriding term that includes
the following:
silver
victory points
harvest goods 
(olive, grain, grape)
upgraded goods 
(food, vine, cured meat)
pigs
At the top right corner of a player´s farm there is
an overview of the costs for farm extensions and
all available farm goods.
✿Delivery: A donkey symbol represents one 
delivery. A delivery is either sent to a craft building
in the village or to one of the market barrows at a
player´s own farm.
3.0 AIM OF THE GAME
In six game turns the players try to expand their
farm and deliver goods to the village of Esporles.
This will earn them victory points.
The players have two options to get victory points:
1. As soon as a player has supplied a craft buil‐
ding completely, he gets victory points and a
craft marker with a special effect.
2. When a player places farm cards at the top of
his farm as market barrows, he supplies 
them with goods and sends them – filled
completely – to the market. He gets victory
points and a trade commodity as a reward.
It is important to observe the actions of the other
players, to act quickly and to adjust to the vagaries
of the dice and the cards.
The player who has earned the most victory points
at the end of the game is the winner and new 
owner of the La Granja estate!
4.0 PREPARE FOR PLAY
The game board is placed in the center of the table.
Each player receives a farm, 25 player markers of
one color, one set of donkey markers (four markers;
with one, two, three, and four donkey symbols), 
1 victory point, and 1 silver.
The victory point marker and the silver are placed
next to their farm; moreover, the players put one
of their player markers at the trade commodity
space of their farm. The rest of the player compo‐
nents are his pool.
One player shuffles all 66 farm cards and deals
each player four concealed cards. The other cards
are placed, with the flipside up, on the table. They
form the draw deck.
Trade
Commodity

Attention: The instance the draw deck is empty, all
discarded cards are shuffled and form the new
draw deck.
One player sorts all roof markers on the game board
und places them according to their game turn 
number (on their flipside) on the spaces on the game
board. The roof markers with the numbers 2 to 6 are,
flipside up, stacked while the markers for turn 1 are
placed, frontside up, above them.
Attention: If there are fewer than four players, only
one randomly selected roof marker per player is 
placed concealed – the others are put back into the
box without looking at them.
The players put one craft marker per player on the 
respective craft buildings plus 1 victory point each on
the light gray spaces adjacent to the buildings (the
ones with the four spaces for player markers).
Now one player rolls a die. The number rolled deter‐
mines on which building building order marker 1 is
placed. Afterwards the die is rolled two more times.
The numbers rolled determine which buildings are
occupied by building order markers 2 and 3. If a buil‐
ding already has a marker, the die is rolled again until
a building without marker has been determined. It is
best to put the markers in the center of the symbol
rows. In addition, 1 victory point each is put next to
the three building order markers.
Now the start player is determined randomly. He
receives game order marker 1. In clockwise order
the other players get game turn order markers
with ascending numbers.
If there are fewer than four players, the markers
which are not used are put back into the game
box.
According to the number of players the revenue
dice are set aside. Per player, two dice are used
plus one additional die:
2 players
5 dice
3 players
7 dice
4 players
9 dice
According to the game turn order each player 
places one of his player markers on the central
market spaces of the game board (with the 
numbers 2, 3, 4, 5). The first player places his 
marker on the market space with the lowest 
number, the other players follow in ascending 
order. In a 3‐player game spaces 2, 3, 4; in a 2‐player
game spaces 2 and 3 are occupied.
In reversed game turn order each player puts his
disc on the space at the bottom of the siesta track.
They are stacked there – the disc of the starting
player is at the top.
Victory points and silver are placed nearby and
form the pool.
Attention: In 
2‐ and 3‐player
games most of
the outer mar‐
ket spaces may
not be entered.
These spaces
have an “X” in
their center.
Determines where 
building order 
markers are placed.
The farm of a player at
the start of the game
No access in 2‐ and 
3‐player games.

5.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
La Granja is played over six game turns. One game
turn consists of these four phases:
Farm Phase (see 6.0)
Revenue Phase (see 7.0)
Transportation Phase (see 8.0)
Scoring Phase (see 9.0)
Attention: La Granja does not contain a game turn
record marker. Using the flipsides of the roof 
markers and the empty roof marker spaces on the
game board the players may easily determine the
current game turn.
5.1 ”Anytime”‐Actions
La Granja is a very flexible game – most of the 
time the player whose turn it is (and only then!)
may do several different things in the order of his
choosing. This is especially important for some
actions that may be conducted anytime during
the game independent of the phases of a game
turn. These actions include using the own trade
commodities, buying and selling of resources and
upgrading resources.
5.1.1 Using Trade Commodities 
From time to time during the game a player receives
trade commodities (most of the time via comple‐
tely supplied market barrow‐farm cards). Each 
trade commodity is represented by a player 
marker on the central space of the farm. 
A player may return a trade commodity to his pool
to conduct one of the following actions:
✿Take 4 silver
The player takes 4 silver from the pool.
✿Take two different harvest goods
The player takes two different harvest goods
and places two of his player markers on the 
corresponding dens of his farm.
The player owns one
trade commodity.

✿Draw one card or play one card
The player either tucks one of his cards from
his hand under his farm (taking the costs for
farm extensions into account, see 6.0) or he
draws the top card from the draw deck to his
hand.
✿Take one pig
The player takes one pig and places one of his
player markers on a pig stall space.
✿Upgrade two resources free of charge
The player may upgrade any two of his resources
free of charge and transfer them from their dens
or fields into the respective dens for upgraded
goods. To do so, he moves a marker from a den
or field in the direction of the arrow into the 
corresponding den of the upgraded good. The
costs shown on the arrow are not paid.
Alternatively, the player may transport trade 
commodities to one of the craft buildings of the
village in the transportation phase, see 8.3.1.
5.1.2 Buying and Selling of Resources 
When a player buys resources, he places one player
marker per purchased resource in the respective
den or stall.
When he sells resources, he removes the respec‐
tive player markers from his dens or stalls. Harvest
goods cannot be sold from fields!
Exception: Card 35 Agricultural Worker.
Attention: Upgraded goods may not be directly
bought or sold. A player may buy an upgraded
good indirectly by first purchasing the resource at
buying price, then upgrading it afterwards.
5.1.3 Upgrading Resources
A player may upgrade harvest goods and pigs – 
henceforth they are upgraded goods. To do so, the
player marker is moved from its resource space to its
space as upgraded good.
The costs for upgrades are listed on the farm bet‐
ween the dens and fields of the harvest goods and
the pig stall and the dens for upgraded goods.
5.1.4 Harvest Goods on Fields
Harvest goods are never moved between a field
and a den. They stay on the fields until one of the 
following is happening to them:
✿Upgrade (see 5.1.3)
✿Used as payment for the costs of a farm extension
(see 6.0)
✿Delivery (see 8.3)
6.0 FARM PHASE 
The farm phase consists of four steps. One step is
always conducted completely by all players before
the next step is started. After a few game turns
the first three steps may be conducted simul‐
taneously. Otherwise, the farm phase is played in
game turn order.
1. Play a farm card and draw
new card(s) 
Each player may play one
card and draw one or more
new cards at the end of this
step.
Purchasing olives or grain costs 3 silver. 
Selling these two resources earns the
player 1 silver each.
Upgrading 
the grape from
the field or
from the den 
into wine costs
3 silver each.
The corres‐
ponding player
marker is 
moved to the
wine den.

Exception: In the first game turn all players play
two cards!
Depending on the function of the selected farm
card the player wants to use, he places the card at
one of the four sides of his farm:
✿A card that is placed at the left side of the farm
is a field. One harvest good is growing on a field
– either olives, grain, or grapes (see step 3 of
the farm phase). Only the information at the left
edge of the card remains visible when a player
tucks the card under his farm . A player may ha‐
ve any number of fields. A field always enters
the game “empty” (i.e., without any harvest
goods)!
✿A card that is placed at one of the three slots at
the top of the farm is a market barrow. Only the
information at the top of the card remains 
visible! Specific goods are displayed by their 
corresponding symbols. They have to be trans‐
ported to the barrow by the player. Only when
the market barrow has been fully supplied, it is
sent to the market of the village and earns the
player a trade commodity and victory points 
according to line 2 below the symbols (see 8.0).
✿A card that is placed at the right side of the farm
is a farm extension. Only the information at the
right edge of the card remains visible when a
player tucks the card under his farm. A farm 
extension offers various benefits.
✿A card that is placed at one of the three slots at
the bottom of the farm is a special helper with
special abilities. Only the information at the bot‐
tom of the card remains visible! The helpers and
their functions are listed in detail in the glossary.
Placing a card as a market barrow, helper or field 
is always free of charge. If a player already has
three market barrows (or three helpers) at his
farm and would like to place another one, he 
first has to discard an old one without drawing a
replacement to make room for the new market
barrow (or helper). A player may have any number
of fields.
Placing a card as a farm extension causes expenses.
Farm extensions are paid for by farm goods.
Each played farm extension‐card costs more than
the previous one. The costs of the first card are one
farm good, for the second two farm goods, for the
third three farm goods etc.
Note: Starting with the second farm extension card,
different farm goods have to be used as pay‐ment.
In theory, a player may place any number of farm 
extensions if he is able to pay their costs.
In the top right corner of his farm a player finds an
overview of the farm goods and their costs.
At the end of this step each player draws as many
cards until his hand limit is reached. At the start,
each player has a hand limit of three cards. This is
indicated on the player´s farm.
Each farm extension of a player plus a few helpers
increase the hand limit.
Attention: The hand limit is only in effect at this 
time; during a game turn a player may have more
cards in his hand than his limit would allow. Some‐
times a player has to discard surplus cards of his
choice at this moment.
2. Take income 
Each player takes his income
from the pool.
At the start of the game no
player has any regular inco‐
Farm extension
costs and an
overview of all
farm goods.
This player has a 
hand limit of 4 
cards.

me. Blue craft markers at a farm (three of 
them, see 8.3.1) and farm extensions with a blue
part produce income for a player. Income may 
be silver, harvest goods, pigs, or trade commo‐
dities.
3. Growth on fields and pig
offspring 
Each player receives new
harvest goods on fields and
offspring for his pigs.
One harvest good is placed on each empty field of
a player. He takes one of his player markers and
places it on the field.
If a player has at least two pigs, he gets one pig as
Note: To receive this additional pig, a player must
have the necessary space in his den(s). If he does
not have the space, he does not get offspring (a
player may not sell the newborn pig immediately!).
The farm has space for two pigs, the appropriate
farm extensions have space for one pig each. Even
with several pigs a player only gets one pig as
4. Purchase roof markers 
Each player may purchase
one of the roof markers of
the current turn (frontside
up) now. This is always done
in player turn order.
Attention: In the first game turn the players
purchase roof makers in reverse turn order!
A roof marker depicts its costs in silver. Note: The
price corresponds to the current game turn, 
starting with 1 silver in turn 1 and up to 6 silver in
the last, sixth, game turn.
Purchased markers are placed at the leftmost 
empty roof marker space on the farm (this space
does not have to correspond to the current game
turn!). A player immediately receives the victory
points shown on the space which will be covered
by the just purchased marker. 
Each roof marker has a special function. This 
function may be used once per game by the owner
when it is his turn. All roof markers are colored 
according to the phase(s) when they may be used.
After they have been used they are turned to their
flipside.
This player has an 
income of 4 silver
and 1 trade 
commodity. He 
places the silver into
his pool next to the
farm and one player
marker as a trade 
commodity onto the
central spot for 
trade commodities
at his farm.
New harvest 
goods are growing
on these two 
empty fields.
The player 
receives one
pig as
The player
purchases 
another roof 
marker in turn 2.
He pays 2 silver
and receives 1 
victory point.

Note: Each player may buy one roof marker per
turn. A farm only has five spaces, therefore a 
player may only buy a maximum of five markers
(however, see farm card Storage Builder). 
A purchased roof marker may not be discarded.
Roof markers have the following functions:
✿Take one olive (take one grape)
The player takes one olive/grape
and places his player marker in the
corresponding den at his farm.
✿Take one grain or one olive
The player takes one grain or one olive and
places his player marker in the correspon‐
ding den at his farm.
✿Take any harvest good
The player takes any harvest good (olive,
grain, grape) and places his player marker in
the corresponding den at his farm.
✿Take two different harvest goods
The player takes two different harvest
goods and places two of his player markers
in the corresponding dens at his farm.
✿Take one pig
The player takes one pig and places his
player marker in one of his pig dens. If the
player has no empty space for the pig, he
has to sell it immediately.
✿Upgrade one resource free of charge
The player may upgrade any one of his 
resources free of charge and move it from
its field or den to the corresponding den
for upgraded goods.
✿Carry out one delivery
The player may carry out one delivery (see
8.3). 
✿Play one card or draw one card
The player places one of his cards from his
hand to his farm (keeping the costs for
farm extensions in mind, see 6.0!) or takes
the top card from the draw deck to his
hand.
✿Receive 1 victory point
The player receives 1 victory point from the
pool.
✿Receive 2 silver
The player receives 2 silver from the pool.
✿Flip over one roof marker
The player flips back one already used roof
marker to its frontside. He may use it again.
✿Advance one or two steps on the siesta
track
The player may advance
one or two steps on the sie‐
sta track (see 8.2). He advan‐
ces his marker disc accordingly
by one or two spaces on the track. 
7.0 REVENUE PHASE 
7.1 Take Revenue Dice
The start player takes a
number of dice according to
the number of players (see
4.0), rolls them und places
them to the left of the corres‐
ponding revenue spaces.
In game turn or‐
der each player
takes one die
and places it on
the left die space
of his farm. 
Afterwards the
player immedi‐
ately conducts
the respective
action!
When each play‐
er has taken one

die and conducted an
action, each player,
again in game turn 
order, takes a second
die, places it on the
right die space of his
farm and conducts
the respective action.
Finally, one die will remain next to a revenue 
space. All players now conduct the action of that
die in game turn order.
7.2 The Revenue Spaces
✿Die number 1: Take one pig
The player takes one pig and places one
of his markers on a pig den space. If a
player does not have an empty pig den
space, he has to immediately sell the pig.
✿Die number 2: Play a card, draw a card
or take a harvest good
The player may choose between the follo‐
wing options:
1. He tucks one of his cards from his hand
under his farm (taking into account the
costs for farm extensions!) or he 
takes the top card from the draw deck
to his hand.
2. He takes any harvest good (olive, grain,
grape) and places one of his player 
markers on the respective den of his farm.
✿Die number 3: Take two different 
harvest goods
The player takes two different harvest
goods and places two of his player mar‐
kers on the respective dens of his farm.
✿Die number 4: Take 4 silver
The player takes 4 silver from the pool.
✿Die number 5: Upgrade two resources
free of charge, upgrade one resource free
of charge and advance one step on the 
siesta track, or advance two steps on the
siesta track
The player may choose between the follo‐
wing options:
1. He may upgrade any two of his resour‐
ces free of charge and move them
from their respective fields or
dens to their new dens for 
upgraded goods.
2. He may upgrade any one
of his resources free
of charge and move it
from its respective field
or den to its den for up‐
graded goods. In addition
he may advance one step on
the siesta track.
3. He may advance two steps on
the siesta track.
✿Die number 6: Carry out one delivery or
take 2 silver
The player either carries out one delivery
(see 8.3) or takes 2 silver from the pool.
8.0 TRANSPORTATION 
PHASE
The transportation phase consists of four steps.
Step 1 is done simultaneously, all other steps are
conducted in game turn order. One step is comple‐
tely finished before the next step is started.
8.1 Choose Donkey Marker 
Each player secretly chooses
one of his available donkey
markers and places it, flip ‐
side up, in front of him.
In the first game turn the
players have all four donkey
markers available. In the second turn the previously
chosen marker is unavailable; in the third turn 
the markers selected in turns 1 and 2 are unavai ‐
lable.
At the start of the transportation phase of the
fourth game turn, the players may choose
from all four donkey markers again. After‐
wards, game turns 5 and 6 are handled like
turn 2 and 3.
When all players have chosen a 
donkey marker, all players turn
over their markers simultan‐
eously.

8.2 Advance on the Siesta Track and
Determine the New Game Turn Order 
In game turn order the play‐
ers now advance, according
to their chosen donkey mar‐
ker, 0, 1, 2, or 3 steps on the
siesta track. If a player ends
at a space that is already oc‐
cupied by a disc of another player, he puts his disc
on top of any disc(s) already there.
Note: One of the craft markers increases the 
number of steps (see 8.3.1).
If a player has reached the topmost space of the
siesta track he cannot advance anymore.
Now the new game turn order is determined 
according to the siesta track. The player who has 
advanced farthest on the siesta track is the new
start player and gets game order marker 1. The
player who is second receives game order marker
2 etc. If two or more players occupy the same space
on the track, the player whose disc is farther at the
top will act earlier and gets the game turn marker
with the lower number. The new turn order is 
immediately in effect. The discs stay on their 
positions for the time being.
8.3 Carry out Deliveries 
In new game turn order the
players carry out their deli‐
veries.
Each donkey symbol on a
donkey marker represents
one delivery.
The number of donkey symbols on a marker is the
maximum number of deliveries a player may carry
out.
Note: One of the craft markers 
increases the number of deliveries
(see 8.3.1).
One delivery either is transported
to one of the craft buildings or to a market barrow
tucked under the top of the farm. If a player has
more than one delivery he may send them to craft
buildings and market barrows (in any order) in one
step.
Each player does all his deliveries that are allowed
by the donkey marker. Only afterwards the next
player does his deliveries.
When a player has carried out all deliveries, he 
places his donkey marker, flipside up, in the top
left corner of his farm. This marker is not available
for the time being (see 8.1).
8.3.1 Deliveries to Craft Buildings in the
Village
Each player may carry out deliveries to all six craft
buildings. However, at the start of the game three
of the six buildings are “blocked” and have a 
marker to denote this (see 8.3.2). Blocked buildings
may not be delivered.
Each craft building has one symbol row for each
player. Symbol rows are separated by lines. A player
chooses an empty row when he carries out his first
delivery. He is now assigned to that row. The 
symbols show which farm goods have to be trans‐
ported to a building.
A player may deliver farm goods to various craft
buildings in one transportation phase.
To carry out a delivery, the player takes the farm
good in question or the trade commodity from his
farm and places one of his player markers onto the
symbol in “his” row at the craft building. Farm
goods may be delivered in any order to a building;
a player does not have to deliver them in the order
shown in his row. Buildings may get deliveries over
several turns.
When a player has carried out all deliveries to a
craft building (i.e., there are his player markers in
each space of his row), he immediately transfers
one of these markers to one of the spaces at the
building highlighted in light‐gray. Additional 
The player may 
advance two 
steps on the 
siesta track.

deliveries by this player to this building are not
possible. His other player markers are put back
from the symbol spaces to his pool.
If the player is the first one to transfer his player
marker in this way, he immediately takes the 
victory point from the gray spot.
Each player who may transfer his
player marker in this way, also ta‐
kes one of the craft markers
from the building, places it, front‐
side up, on the corresponding space
of his farm and receives a number of
victory points according to the current
game turn (therefore, the first player
receives an additional victory point). Each
player keeps his craft markers until the end of the
game.
The player may immediately use the function of
the marker once! Note: As a reminder, the frontside
of the markers is somewhat lighter than the flipside.
At the end of the game turn all markers are turned
to their flipside.
Four of the six markers allow the owner to use the
marker´s function once in the respective phase
starting in the next game turn.
The color of the marker corresponds with the 
color of the phase(s) in which the marker may be
used:
✿Blue: The markers increase the income.
✿Gray/Green: May be used in the Revenue or
Transportation Phase.
✿Gray: Special function the Transportation Phase.
The craft markers have the following functions:
✿Merchant House
The merchant house brings the player 3 
additional silver in step 3 of the farm phase
(and immediately, when the marker is taken).
✿Wainwright
The wainwright allows an additional step
on the siesta track in step 2 of the trans‐
portation phase and an additional deli‐
very in step 3 of the transportation phase (not in
step 4 – extra deliveries!).
When the marker is taken, the player immediately
carries out a delivery and takes as many victory
points (once) as his disc on the siesta track shows.
✿Deli
The deli earns the player one trade com‐
modity in step 3 of the farm phase (and
immediately, when the marker is taken).
✿Greengrocer
The greengrocer allows the player to take
any resource in step 3 of the farm phase
(and immediately, when the marker is 
taken).
The following two markers may be always used by
the owner (including several times!) starting in the
next game turn, when the respective conditions
are fulfilled:
✿Village Store
The village store allows the player always
to take 2 victory points, when he receives
any craft marker (and immediately, when
the marker is taken).
The player delivers
one wine to the 
merchant house.
The player has
completely 
supplied the 
village store and
receives its craft
marker and 
victory points.

Normally the village store is used in step 4 of the
transportation phase – however, it may be used in
the revenue phase if a player gets a craft marker after
a delivery following the use of a die with number 6.
✿Butcher
The butcher always earns 1 additional 
victory point for a player when he is 
scoring a market barrow (i.e., he has 
completely filled it and “sent it to the village”).
When he takes the marker, he may immediately 
take as many victory points as he currently has
market barrows at his farm.
Normally the butcher is used in step 3 of the trans‐
portation phase – however, he may be used in the
revenue phase if a player has scored a market 
barrow after a delivery following the use of a die
with number 6.
8.3.2 Blocked Craft Buildings
At the start of the game three craft buildings are
"blocked" (i.e., access to them is barred) and 
occupied by building order markers. At first, these
buildings may not receive any deliveries.
As soon as the first craft building has been comple‐
tely supplied by a player (and one of his player
markers has been moved to the light gray space),
building order marker 1 is removed and put back
into the game box. Starting immediately, this buil‐
ding may be supplied by all players (even in the sa‐
me game turn).
The player who has triggered this effect takes the
victory point from the symbol rows as a reward.
Building order marker 2 is removed in the same
way when the second craft building has been com‐
pletely supplied by a player; building order marker
3 when the third craft building has been completely
supplied by a player. These buildings may also be
supplied immediately afterwards. Each time the
triggering player receives a victory point.
8.3.3 Deliveries to Market Barrows
A player may supply one or more of his own market
barrows.
The symbols on a market barrow (farm card) 
determine which farm goods have to be delivered
to the barrow. The farm goods may be carried to
the market barrows in any order and over several
game turns.
First the player removes the farm good from his
farm or field and places a player marker on the
corresponding symbol of the market barrow.
When a player has supplied a market barrow 
In the second game turn the player carries out all 
three deliveries of upgraded goods to the wainwright
first. He places one of his player markers onto one of
the gray spaces and takes the other two markers
back into his pool. He was first, therefore he does not
only receive the craft marker but also a total of 4 
victory points = 1 victory point (victory point marker
from the gray space) plus 1 victory point (victory
point marker from the no longer “blocked” building ‐
see 8.3.2) plus 2 victory points (second game turn). 
He immediately uses the craft marker for the first 
time, carries out a delivery and takes as many victory
points as his disc on the siesta track shows.
This craft building 
is the first to be 
completely supplied by
a player. The building
order marker will be
removed.

completely (i.e., there is a player marker on each
symbol space), he takes the number of victory
points shown on the card (2 to 6) and places a
player marker as a trade good onto the central
space of his farm. Afterwards the card is removed
from the farm and placed onto the stack of discar‐
ded farm cards (front side up). The markers are
put back into the pool.
Afterwards he places one of his player markers on
an empty space of the market space whose number
corresponds with the victory point number of the
market barrow. Now the player removes all markers
of other players on market spaces that are adjacent
to the newly placed marker and have a lower
number. He gets 1 victory point per removed 
Removed markers are put back into the pool of the
owning player.
Attention: In the rare case that all market spaces
corresponding to the number of the market barrow
are already occupied, the player removes another
player´s marker from its space directly when 
inserting the marker on the market. Afterwards all
adjacent markers of lower value are again removed!
He receives 1 victory point per removed marker.
8.4 Purchasing and conducting Extra
Deliveries 
Each player may now ‐ in 
game turn order ‐ purchase
extra deliveries (costing 1 
silver each). No player has to
buy extra deliveries.
Attention: The number of
extra deliveries is the number of extra delivery
symbols on the farm 
tableau (far right) plus the gray rows of farm 
extensions. Each of these extra deliveries allows
the player to carry out one delivery to a craft 
building or a market barrow, see 8.3.
At the start of the game each player may purchase
one extra delivery. Certain farm extensions allow
additional extra deliveries.
A player purchases all extra deliveries that he 
intends to carry out at once. Afterwards he carries
all of them out. A player does not have to buy all 
extra deliveries that are available to him!
9.0 SCORING PHASE 
The players remove markers from used helpers.
Afterwards they conduct
four steps. In the last game
turn the last two steps are 
omitted.
1. Each player receives 1
victory point per player
marker of his own that is on the market
The player may carry 
out two deliveries. 
He takes the olive from
the field and one grain
from his den and delivers
both to the market 
barrow. The market 
barrow is now completely
supplied – the player 
receives 4 victory points
and a trade commodity
as reward.
After supplying the 
market barrow, the
player places a player
marker on space “4”. 
He removes the 
opposing player´s 
marker from space “3”.
The marker on space
“5” is “safe” and stays.
The player gets 1 victory
point for the removed
The player may
purchase up to two 
extra deliveries. He 
decides to buy one,
pay 1 silver and 
delivers another
farm good to one of
the craft buildings.

(a player does not get victory points for his
player markers on craft buildings).
2. Each player receives 0, 1, 2 or 3 victory points
according to his position on the siesta track.
3. The marker discs of the
players on the siesta
track are put back. The
discs are placed back
to space "0" as a stack.
According to the 
current turn order the disc of the start player
is at the top (the player with game order 
marker 1), below is the disc of the second
player etc., at the bottom is the last player.
4. The start player flips
over the roof markers
for the next game turn.
All players turn, if ne‐
cessary, their craft
markers on their farms
to the flipside.
10.0 END OF THE GAME
La Granja ends after six game turns.
At the end of the sixth game turn all players may
conduct these two steps:
1. They exchange their player markers on the
farm according to the normal sales prices 
(resources) or conversion prices (trade 
commodities) into silver.
2. 2. Afterwards they exchange their silver into
victory points at a rate of 5:1 (5 silver for 1 
victory point).
The player with the most victory points is the 
winner. If there is a tie, among the tied players the
player with the most silver remaining is the 
winner. If there is still a tie, there are several 
winners.
11.0 THE SOLITAIRE GAME
La Granja may be played solitaire, especially to
learn key mechanics. All rules are in effect with the
following exceptions.
Set Up
1. The components of one player plus the 
player marker in a second color are needed
(for the “neutral player”).
2. Five dice are used.
3. Game order markers 2 and 3 are in use. 
These are shuffled (hidden), afterwards the
player draws one marker and places a player
marker on the space in the center of the 
market that corresponds to the number of
the game order marker. The marker of the
neutral player is put on the other hexagonal
space in the center of the market.
4. The player places two roof markers.
Game play
1. Revenue phase: If the player is the start player
(he has game order marker 2), he chooses
one die. Afterwards one die is discarded – in
the first, second, and third game turn the die
with the lowest number, in the fourth, fifth,
and sixth game turn the die with the highest
number. Now the player selects a second die.
As explained above, a second die is discarded
next. Finally, the last remaining die is used. If
the player is not the start player, one die
each is discarded before the player selects a
die according to the above rule. If the player
removes a marker of the neutral player from
the market, he receives 1 victory point per
2. Transportation phase: If he is the start player,
he carries out his complete transportation
phase. Afterwards one card is drawn from
the draw deck. Now the neutral player places
a marker on a sapce of the market corres‐
The player receives 2 victory
points on the siesta track and 
4 victory points for his markers
on the market. The two 
markers at the craft buildings
do not bring any victory points.

ponding to the victory point value of the
drawn card (market barrow section). These
rules are in effect:
a) The neutral player removes as many
markers of the player as possible.
b) If there are several spaces that comply
with this guideline, he places his mar‐
ker in such a way that it is as difficult
as possible to remove them (i.e., as far
apart as possible from other markers
or next to spaces being adjacent to
high numbered ones).
c) If there is no marker of the player on
the market (or no one that may be 
removed), the neutral player places his
marker so that it is most difficult to 
remove this marker (see above).
If the player is not the start player, a card is
drawn from the draw deck and the neutral
player places one of his markers on a space
of the market corresponding to the victory
point value of the drawn card (market barrow
section) before the player carries out his
transportation phase.
3. Scoring phase: If the player reaches at least
the third space of the siesta track, he is the
start player in the next game turn. Otherwise
he plays second.
End Notes
Michael Keller´s “Dice for the Galaxy” formed
the basis for the design of La Granja. The dice
distribution mechanic originates in the unpu‐
blished design “Arriba” by Matthias “Matze”
Cramer and was the inspiration for the dice
distribution system of this game. In “Glory for
Rome” (2005) Carl Chudyk demonstrated an
outstanding way to use cards; hopefully we
came up with a nice variation.
The central element in the center of the table
was inspired by the temple in “Luna” (H@ll
Games, 2010) by Stefan Feld.
The authors would especially like to thank
Stefan Feld, H@ll Games, Uwe Rosenberg
and last but not least their significant others
Linda and Claudia for their support.
Testers
Claudia Odendahl, Thorsten Hanson, Robert
Bachmann, Ralph Bruhn, Gesa Bruhn, Uwe 
Rosenberg, Horst Sarchow, Thorsten Tolzmann,
Karsten Esser, Grzegorz Kobiela, Silke Hüsges,
Christian Stöhr, Julius Kündiger, Tobias Miliz,
Uta Dohlenburg, Till Ullrich, Matthias Cramer,
Susanne Cramer, Stefan Molz, Johanna Engels,
Herbert Harengel, Henning Schröder, Stefan
Heine, Tim Melkert, Johanna Moratz, Jens
Grotholtmann, Jonas Blohm, Mathias Saurer,
Selim Hamdani, Michael Keller, Andre Ruch,
Marcel Ruch, Thomas Schmitz, Daniel Bader,
Roan Weber, Marc Schmitz, Peter Raschdorf,
Nicole Vogt, André Schröder, Monika Harke,
Rainer Harke, Jan Degler, Marlies Strassburger,
Rolf Raupach, Dirk Schröder, Carsten 
Büttemeier, Dagmar Bock, Dirk Bock, Jörg
Schröder, Martina Weidner, Katharina Bock,
Markus „Kusi“ Haldemann, Richard Büchi,
Alexander Blaser, Dario Manzone, Markus
Krug, Steffen Rieger, Eva Hein, Stefan Trümpler,
Stefan Peterhoff, Kerstin Wollschläger, 
Kathrin Gerber, David Gerber, Hardy Krüger,
Sven Graumann, Ilja Mett, Thyra Puls, Elmar
Grubert, Kaspar Wyss, Manta and the testers
at Bödefeld and Majorca.
Authors:
Andreas Odendahl, Michael Keller
Development: Henning Kröpke, Uli Blennemann
Graphics:
Harald Lieske
Layout:
Lin Lütke‐Glanemann