LABORIGINES
authors
TOMÁŠ UHLÍŘ and JAKUB UHLÍŘ
Laborigines are very strange and unhappy beings. Born as by-products of mysterious scientiﬁ c
experiments, their life in the laboratory is very hard and packed with threats at every turn. Despite that
they like to have fun and dream about escaping the laboratory. Be the one lucky survivor who ﬁ nds his 
way to the world outside. An original game for players of all ages that challenges both the imagination and
memory and contains tactical elements as well.

Game contents
MOA
Moa is a mysterious creature roaming the lab with malicious
intentions towards the laborigines.
PLASTICINE AND STANDS
Prior to starting the game, each player models his/her
laborigine from plasticine and places it on a stand.
TRAPS
Two-sided tiles with trap symbols represent the traps set
for laborigines in the lab. Th e tiles create a diﬀ erent pattern
each game, making each game a unique experience. It is
advantageous to try to memorize the position of each trap as
the game progresses. Each type of trap exists in two versions;
the ﬁ rst type has the trap on both sides of the tile, while the
second type is safe on one side.
DICE
Two ordinary dice.
ENERGY TOKENS
Each laborigine starts the game with 20 energy tokens of 
his/her color. During the course of the game, each player can
obtain energy token of other colors as well, which can be both
an advantage and a setback.
LIGHTNING, DISEASES, FLAG
Each laborigine can bear multiple marks depicting the number
of lightning strikes he has sustained, disease he suﬀ ers from or
an immunity represented by the ﬂ ag. Th e eﬀ ects of lightning
strikes are permanent, but diseases can be rid of by transferring
them to a healthy laborigine.
DISEASE CARDS
Laborigines can contract diseases during the course of the
game. All infected laborigines suﬀ er from the same disease, 
and its type is determined by the active disease card.
GAME RULES
RULES OVERVIEW WITH ACID MARKER

Preparing, playing and winning the game 
Arrange the game tokens according to the following picture:
• Place the traps randomly on the board making up a circle
(see picture).
• Place Moa on a random, unoccupied tile.
• Shuﬄ e the disease cards and place them in the middle of 
the board face down. 
• Each player starts with a stand, plasticine, and 20 energy 
tokens of an uniform color.
• Each player shapes his/her laborigine from the plasticine
and places it on a random tile.
Th e players agree or vote on which laborigine is the nicest.
Th is laborigine obtains the immunity ﬂ ag and starts the game.
If a consensus cannot be reached, the laborigine shaped by the
heaviest player is proclaimed the nicest.
PREPARATION

SPENDING ENERGY
While Spending energy, the energy tokens never directly leave
the game, but are spent this way: Th e ﬁ rst spent token is placed
on the tile occupied by the laborigine, second token leaves the
game, third is once again placed on the currently occupied tile, 
the fourth leaves the game, and so on... until the total number
of spent tokens is reached.
TRANSFERRING ENERGY
Under certain conditions, a laborigine transfers a portion of his
stored energy to another laborigine. Th e color of transferred
tokens is chosen by the player currently on the move.
PLAYING THE GAME
Preparing, playing and winning the game 
Th e players take turns in clockwise order, moving their laborigines around the board. Each laborigine survives as long as he has at
least one energy token of any color. Laborigines lose and gain energy in various situations, but always by one of the following ways:
• energy transfer between laborigines
• spending energy while traversing the board

IMMUNITY
Immunity is represented by the ﬂ ag and is beneﬁ tial because 
it protects its owner from losing energy. A laborigine does not 
lose any energy while carrying the immunity ﬂ ag (nor even 
by transferring, with the exception of the inferiority complex 
disease where it is explicitly stated). Immunity does not protect 
against anything else (diseases or lightning strikes). Th ere is 
only a single immunity ﬂ ag in the whole game; therefore when 
someone gains immunity, the previous owner loses it. Th e 
immunity ﬂ ag might not even be owned by any laborigine at 
any given time. But this state is generally only temporary.
LABORIGINE WITHOUT ENERGY IS OUT
A laborigine who loses his last energy token immediately 
leaves the game, even if not currently on move or did not ﬁ nish 
his move yet. All the energy tokens of his color are removed 
from the game together with him (including tokens owned 
by other players). Once ﬁ rst laborigine leaves the game, the 
immunity ﬂ ag is also removed from the game and can be no 
longer obtained.
WINNING THE GAME
Th e last surviving laborigine wins the game. He is clearly 
destined to successfully escape the dangers of the laboratory 
and to ﬁ nd his new purpose and life in the outside world.
Each player‘s turn has the following phases:
 1) Dice roll
 2) Disease manifestations
 3) Movement
 4) Triggering traps
• Roll 2 dice.
• Decide which dice shall be used to move your laborigine
and which to move the Moa.
• If you rolled 1 on at least one dice, you obtain the 
immunity ﬂ ag.
PHASE 1: DICE ROLL
Preparing, playing and winning 
the game 

During the third and fourth phase, you can contract a disease.
If you are already infected from previous turns, its (mostly 
negative) eﬀ ects will aﬀ ect you in this phase (excluding
mutations).
LEPROSY
Spend one energy token.
INFERIORITY COMPLEX
If you rolled 1 on at least one dice, spend 2 energy tokens.
Th e immunity ﬂ ag does not protect you from this disease!
LIMPING
If you assigned a dice with even number to move the laborigine, 
spend 2 energy tokens.
IMMUNITY LOSS
Th is disease prevents you from ever having the immunity ﬂ ag
as long as you are infected. If you own the ﬂ ag at the moment
you contract the disease, remove the immunity ﬂ ag temporarily 
from the game (other players can still obtain it). Should you
obtain the ﬂ ag while suﬀ ering from immunity loss, you remove
the ﬂ ag temporarily from the game instead.
HYPERACTIVITY
Th e dice number you assigned for moving your laborigine is 
multiplied by 2 for the rest of your turn.
Mutations
Mutations are diseases that do not have immediate eﬀ ects, but 
aﬀ ects the laborigine at the moment he is to gain or lose energy. 
Malign and benign mutations aﬀ ect spending energy, energy 
storage disorder aﬀ ects every means of gaining energy.
BENIGN MUTATION
Whenever spending energy, you spend one token less. Does not 
aﬀ ect other means of losing energy. (see Energy – summary)
MALIGN MUTATION
Whenever spending energy, you spend one token more. Does 
not aﬀ ect other means of losing energy.
(see Energy – summary)
ENERGY STORAGE DISORDER
You cannot gain energy in any way. Should you gain some 
energy tokens, they remain on their point of origin instead.
PHASE 2: DISEASE MANIFESTATIONS

Th is phase includes the following actions in this
particular order:
3a. Moa movement
3b. Laborigine movement
Th e movement of the pieces is governed by similar, but not
identical rules. Th e movement distance is governed by the
dice you have assigned to each particular piece (Moa and
laborigine) during the phase 1. Moa always moves clockwise, 
while the direction of laborigine movement is determined
by the player.
Each tile may be occupied by only one piece.Th at‘s why when
a piece arrives on an occupied tile, it must repeat its movement
(moves again in the same direction across the same number
of tiles). Prior to moving again, the encounter is resolved. Th is
process may repeat multiple times, until the piece arrives at an
empty tile.
ENCOUNTERS
Moa is stronger than laborigines and that determines the 
way its encounters are resolved regardless oﬀ who is moving. 
During this encounter, the laborigine spends 2 energy tokens, 
or loses the immunity ﬂ ag instead (if he owns it).
Th e conﬂ ict of two laborigines is won by the attacking 
(moving) laborigine. 2 energy tokens of the victor‘s choice are 
transferred to the victor from the defeated laborigine. If the 
defeated laborigine owns the immunity ﬂ ag, it is transferred
instead of the energy tokens (this is the preferred option in 
the previous case as well).
PHASE 3: MOVEMENT

Aft er an encounter of two laborigines, a disease may be also
transferred. If one laborigine is infected at the time of the
encounter and the other is not, the disease is trasferred.
Th e originally diseased laborigine is cured and the other one
contracts the disease. If both laborigines have the disease, 
nothing happens.
PHASE 4. TRIGGERING TRAPS
Th e laborigine ﬁ rst takes all energy from the tile he arrived
to. Th en the tile is ﬂ ipped and the eﬀ ect of the revealed trap is
applied. Th e color of the revealed tile immediately indicates the
nature of its eﬀ ect: negative (yellow), neutral (green), or even
positive (white).
FOOTPRINT
Continue moving. More precisely, return to the
phase 3b (laborigine movement). You move in
the same direction. Note: Aft er the 3b phase is
ﬁ nished including possible encounter resolution, 
a normal phase 4 begins by triggering a new 
trap.
Example (phase 3b): Th e red player assigns the dice with 2 to his 
laborigine, chosing to move clockwise. He moves two tiles ﬁ rst (1.) 
encountering the diseased blue laborigine. Blue transfers the energy 
and disease to red (2.). Red continues by moving another two tiles (3.), 
encountering the green laborigine with the ﬂ ag. Th e ﬂ ag is transferred 
from green to red instead of energy and green contracts the disease from 
red (4.) Finally, red moves yet another two tiles, ending his movement.
MANIPULATION
By manipulation, any player can determine the direction
of laborigine movement. If he wants to do so, he must state
it before the Phase 3b begins. He then discards three energy 
tokens from his stockpile and determines the movement of 
the laborigine currently on turn. Th e color of the discarded
tokens must match the color of the moving laborigine.
If more than one player wants to manipulate, than the nearest
player to the current player has the priority (in the clockwise
direction).

DISEASE
You have contracted a disease. Take a disease 
marker (if you don‘t have it yet). Draw a new 
card form the disease pack and place it on 
the top of the disease discard pack, face up. 
From now on, all diseased laborigines suﬀ er 
from this particular disease. Th e disease 
does not take eﬀ ect immediately (except 
mutations), but in the disease manifestation 
phase of each infected laborigine (phase 2). 
Aft er all the disease cards are used, they are 
shuﬄ ed and reused.
CHARITY
Give the laborigine with the smallest 
energy stockpile 3 energy tokens from 
your stockpile. If it is your laborigine, 
nothing happens. Should there be multiple 
laborigines with the least amount of energy 
tokens, and yours is not among them, spend
3 energy tokens instead.
RADIATION
Spend the number of energy tokens equal to
the number of revealed green tiles, regardless
of whether they are occupied or not.
LIGHTNING
Proceed with the actions bellow in the speciﬁ ed order:
1) Take a lightning marker and stick it into
your laborigine.
2) Each laborigine including yours spends the
amount of energy tokens equivalent to the
number of lightnings he carries.
Th e lightnings aﬀ ect every laborigine, not only 
the one currently on move. Th ere is no way to
get rid of the lightning markers.
ACID
During his next move, the laborigine spends one
energy token on each tile he crosses (starting
with the tile he originally occupied). No energy 
is spent on the tile where the laborigine ends
his movement. Th e acid can be very dangerous.
Perhaps that is the reason why some players
tend to forget about its eﬀ ect. To prevent this
oversight, each player who turns the acid tile
takes the acid marker and places it beside his
laborigine.

SMALL EXPLOSION
Spend four energy tokens.
HUGE EXPLOSION
Spend eight energy tokens.
CURE
Your laborigine obtains one energy token of 
your choice from the rest of the laborigines. 
Each of them transfers one energy token to 
him.
IMMUNITY FLAG
You obtain the immunity ﬂ ag.
DANGER
Nothing happens. It is only a warning that 
the other side of the tile contains a huge 
explosion.
GREEN TILE
Really, absolutely nothing happens. Th is is 
actually quite good!
Variations
If you are already familiar with the basic rules of Laborigines, 
you can try one of the following variations:
• Team play variation for 4-6 players. When 6 players 
want to participate, it is necessary to use this variation.
• Th e twins (pairs) variation for 2-3 players.
For a shorter game you can also start with less than 20 energy 
tokens. Th is could however result in some players leaving the
game very quickly.
TEAM PLAY VARIATION
Number of players: 4-6
Th e players form teams consisting of two players each. Each
team receives plasticine of one color. Th us, each team will
be represented by two laborigines of the same color. Each
member of a team controls their own laborigine. Each team
member obtains 5 energy tokens of a neutral color (any color
not taking part in the game), and 15 energy tokens of his/her
color.
If one laborigine from a pair is knocked out of the game, the
remaining member is signiﬁ cantly weakened as the standard
rule about removing all energy tokens from the expired
laborigine‘s color still apply. Th e game ends when only 
laborigines of one color are left in the game.

Summaries
Variations
TWINS VARIATION
Number of players: 2-3
Moa does not participate in this variation.
Each player forms and controls two laborigines. Both 
laborigines share a stock of 20 energy tokens. When any of 
the twin laborigines spends of transfers energy, the laborigine 
removes the tokens from his shared stockpile.
Aft er rolling the dice, the player assigns each dice to one of 
his/her laborigines, moving one aft er the other. Th e player can 
determine the order in which he moves his/her laborigines. 
However, one of the twin laborigines must move clockwise, 
and the other anti-clockwise.
When a player rolls 1 on one of the dice, he must chose which 
one of his laborigines will carry the ﬂ ag.
Aft er losing all energy tokens, both laborigines leave the game 
simultaneously.
Th e following section does not contain any new information.
It merely summarizes all the previously explained rules:
THE FLAG IS OBTAINED WHEN
• number one is rolled on at least one dice.
• a laborigine carrying the ﬂ ag is encountered.
• the tile with the ﬂ ag is turned.
THE FLAG IS LOST WHEN
• one laborigine wins control of the ﬂ ag when another 
laborigine already has it.
• another laborigine encounters your ﬂ ag-carrying laborigine.
• Moa encounters your laborigine.
• ﬁ rst laborigine is knocked out of the game (the ﬂ ag is
 removed permanently for the duration of the game).
IMMUNITY FLAG - SUMMARY

Energy loss
SITUATIONS REQUIRING
SPENDING ENERGY
• Encountering Moa. (2 tokens are spent)
• Personally activating certain traps (small or big explosion, 
radiation, lightning), or suﬀ ering from global trap eﬀ ects 
(lightning).
• Suﬀ ering from certain diseases.
• Being burned by acid. (1 token is spent on each crossed
tile)
TRANSFERRING ENERGY TO 
ANOTHER LABORIGINE
• When encountered by another laborigine. (2 tokens are
transferred)
• Trap eﬀ ects (charity, cure)
ENERGY – SUMMARY
OTHER LABORIGINE LEAVES THE GAME
• When a laborigine is knocked out of the game, all the
energy of his color is removed from the game as well -
including tokens owned by other players and tokens on
board.
Energy gain
• Encountering another laborigine. (2 tokens are
transferred)
• Stopping on a tile containing energy tokens. In such cases, 
they are collected by the newly arriving laborigine even
before turning the tile.
• Trap eﬀ ects (charity, cure)
Summaries