R U L E S O F P L AY
2 N D E D I T I O N , 2 0 1 1
© 2011 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
1.	Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 2
2. How to Win. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 2
3. Setup. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 2
4. Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 3
5. Sequence of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 7
6. Card Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 7
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
7. US Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 8
8. Jihadist Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 10
9. Jihadist Activities (1-Player). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 12
Glossary and Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 14
Scenarios. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 	 16

1.0 INTRODUCTION
LABYRINTH is a 1-2 player card-driven boardgame simulating at 
the strategic level the ongoing bid by Islamic extremists to impose 
their brand of religious rule on the Muslim world. 
•	 In a 1-player game (9.0), the player portrays the United States 
(US) and its allies battling the extremist jihad (“struggle”, i.e., 
holy war). 
•	 In a 2-player game, the second player takes on the role of the 
Jihadist. 
The US side seeks to improve governance in Muslim countries so 
that Jihadism is cut off at its roots, or at least to eliminate the extrem-
ist fighters that pose the immediate threat. The Jihadist side seeks 
to reestablish the Islamic Caliphate of old or to damage the US so 
severely that it withdraws from the Muslim world. 
In pursuit of these goals in the game, players use strategy cards to 
undertake operations or cause events to happen. A hand of cards 
in LABYRINTH simulates roughly a year.
Specific game terms found in the glossary on pages 14-15 are 
shown in bold the first few times they appear in this rule book. Note 
that the game uses the term “Jihadists” to refer to violent Islamic 
extremist militants (as Westerners and the militants themselves 
commonly do) and not to the world’s many millions of peaceful, 
devout Muslims.
The rules are organized into numbered sections. For a 2-player game, 
read rules sections 2 through 8. For a 1-player game, also read rules 
section 9, “Jihadist Activities”, which modifies the preceding rules 
to enable solitaire play.
NOTE: The outside of the Player Aid Cards summarize rules used 
in 2-player games, including US and Jihadist Operations (rules 7 
and 8) and How to Win (rule 2). The inside of the Player Aid Cards 
are used only in 1-player games.
2.0 HOW TO WIN
2.1 Three Ways to Win
Each side can win in three different ways:
2.1.1 US Victory
•	 The US wins the instant that Muslim countries with a total of at 
least 12 Resources have Good Governance (4.2.1), OR
•	 at least 15 (of 18) Muslim countries have Fair or Good 
Governance, OR
•	 there are no Jihadist cells in any countries on the map.
2.1.2 Jihadist Victory
•	 The Jihadists win the instant Islamist Rule governs countries 
totaling at least six Resources that include at least two adjacent 
countries, OR
•	 US Prestige is “1” and at least 15 Muslim countries have Poor 
or Islamist Rule Governance, OR
•	 a weapon of mass destruction (WMD) Plot (8.5.5-6) is resolved 
in the United States without being countered (such as by an Alert, 
7.5). 
2.2 Oil Price Spike
In the unlikely event that play of an Oil Price Spike event causes 
both sides to achieve their victory conditions simultaneously, the 
side that played the event wins.
2.3 End of Game Victory
Labyrinth can be played in three different lengths of game. If none 
of the conditions of 2.1 have occurred by the selected game-end 
reshuffle of the card deck (1st, 2nd, or 3rd -see 3.3, 5.1, & 5.3.1), 
the US wins if more than twice as many Resources are under Good 
Governance as are under Islamist Rule; otherwise, the Jihadists 
win. For this game-end calculation only, count any Regime Change 
placed this turn (green marker, 4.8.2) as Islamist Rule.
3.0 SETUP
3.1 In General
Choose a scenario from the back of this rule book. Players should 
choose sides and sit side by side, facing the map along its south 
edge, with the US player on the left and Jihadist on the right. The 
US player takes the “US Operations” player aid sheet and the tan die, 
the Jihadist the “Jihadist Operations” sheet and three black dice. 
NOTE: You may wish to set up and work through the extended ex-
amples in the Playbook before you begin your first game.
3.2 Set Up
Set up markers, troops, and sleeper cells as listed in the scenario. 
(Many countries start unmarked until tested during play, 4.9.4.)
•	 Arrange remaining troops (tan cubes) and cells (black cylinders) 
on the Troops and Funding tracks, respectively, filling five per 
box from right to left (4.7.3-4).
•	 Place three WMD Plot markers in each of the two WMD Plot 
holding boxes (4.7.8.1).
•	 Place the “Card” marker on the Action Phase track at Jihadist 
Card 1 (4.7.5). Set both Reserves to “0” (6.3.3).
•	 Place the numbered Plot markers face down in the Available Plots 
box (4.7.8). Place spare Regime Change, Aid/Besieged Regime, 
cadre, event, and 1st Plot markers aside.
•	 Remove any cards that are specified by the scenario, then shuffle 
the remainder to create a face-down Draw Deck. Place it near the 
map with room for a Discard Pile next to it.
•	 Deal players the numbers of cards indicated by the Troops and 
Funding tracks, respectively (5.2.8), and begin play with the 
Jihadist Action Phase (see Sequence of Play, 5.0).
NOTE: By mutual agreement players may use spare markers to 
alter beginning Muslim or non-Muslim governance or posture as 
they deem historical.
3.3 Select Length of Play
Players select one of the three game lengths below. Selection is 
entirely up to the players:
•	 STANDARD: Place the “Deck” marker on the Reshuffle track at 
1 Deck—end play (2.3) when a card is to be drawn but the deck 
is exhausted.
•	 TOURNAMENT FINAL: Place the “Deck” marker at 2 Decks—
end play upon the 2nd reshuffle (5.3.1).
•	 CAMPAIGN: Place the “Deck” marker at 3 Decks—end play 
upon the 3rd reshuffle.

4.0 COMPONENTS
A complete set of LABYRINTH includes:
•	 One 22” by 34” mounted map
•	 One sheet of 156 counters
•	 This Rule book
•	 A Playbook
•	 A US foldout player aid sheet
•	 A Jihadist foldout player aid sheet
•	 120 cards
•	 15 tan wooden cubes (to keep record of troops)
•	 15 black wooden cylinders (to keep track of terrorist cells)
•	 Four 6-sided dice (1 tan, three black)
4.1 THE MAP
4.1.1 Countries and Connection Lines. The map shows most 
of the Muslim world, plus several other regions where extremists 
might operate. Each space on the map represents a country or block 
of countries. Spaces differ, depending on the country’s dominant 
religion. Country spaces connected by lines are adjacent. Adjacency 
affects cell Travel (8.3), US War of Ideas (7.2), Jihadist Victory 
(2.1), and some events (see also 4.5). 
4.1.2 Religion. All countries are marked for their degree and nature 
of Muslim affiliation. Sunni and Shia-Mix countries together are 
called “Muslim” in the game (4.2). Non-Muslim countries are those 
in which Muslims are in the minority (4.3). Shia-dominated Iran is 
a separate type of country (in game terms, neither “Shia-Mix” nor 
“Muslim”, 4.4). 
	
Sunni	
Shia-Mix	
Iran	
Non-Muslim
	 (Muslim country)	
(Muslim country)	
(special case)
DESIGN NOTE: “Shia-Mix” countries include several ruled by 
Sunnis or other non-Shia but with substantial or particularly active 
Shia populations.
4.2 Muslim Countries
4.2.1 Governance. Muslim countries are marked for the quality of 
their Governance which is established at set-up and can change dur-
ing the course of the game. Governance in game terms is depicted 
by a descending scale (in terms of effectiveness and accountability) 
of four ratings: Good (best), Fair, Poor, and Islamist Rule (worst). 
Good, Fair, and Poor Governance have associated values (1, 2, and 
3, respectively) that affect a variety of game functions, particularly 
operations in the country.
Governance markers
 
4.2.2 Denote a country’s Governance with the appropriate marker, 
flipping or replacing the marker as Governance improves or wors-
ens. 
EXAMPLE: If the Governance of Saudi Arabia improves one 
level from Poor to Fair, replace the country’s “Poor-3” marker 
with a “Fair-2” in the same Alignment box. If it improves again, 
flip “Fair-2” to “Good-1.”
4.2.3 Alignment. A three-space track in each Muslim country space 
depicts the country’s Alignment with respect to the US-either Ally, 
Neutral, or Adversary. 
NOTE: Only Muslim countries are rated for Alignment. Thus, in 
game terms, a Non-Muslim country is never an “Ally”. Non-Muslim 
countries instead are rated for their “Posture” (4.3.2)
4.2.4 Place a country’s Governance marker in the appropriate box 
of the country’s Alignment track. 
EXAMPLE: Saudi Arabia sets up as a US Ally with Poor Gov-
ernance (“Poor Ally”).
 
NOTE: The first time a country’s Governance is tested, its Alignment 
typically is Neutral (4.9.4)
4.2.5 Resources. Each Muslim country shows 
a Resource value of 1, 2, or 3. Governance 
over Resources in part determines victory. 
Resources also affect a few events.
4.2.6 Oil. Some Muslim countries show an Oil Exporter 
symbol next to their Resource value. Each of these coun-
tries’ Resource value is one higher for each Oil Price 
Spike event in play.
4.3 Non-Muslim Countries
4.3.1 Governance. Non-Muslim countries show permanent Gover-
nance of either Good-1 or Fair-2.
NOTE: Governance in Non-Muslim countries never changes but 
still affects play.
4.3.2 Posture. Non-Muslim countries (except 
the United States and Iran) have marker 
boxes for Posture, representing their reigning 
political preference for the use of either “Hard 
power” or “Soft power” in the struggle against extremism. Scenarios 
explain how to mark each Non-Muslim country’s Posture with the 
Religion 
(4.1.2)
Oil Exporter 
(4.2.6)
Alignment
Track (4.2.3)
Resources
(4.2.5)
Area for 
cells, troops, 
and markers

appropriate marker. The United States also has a Posture—mark it 
on the GWOT Relations Track (4.7.2). 
4.3.3 Israel. Israel’s posture is always “Hard”, as indicated by its 
map space Posture box.
4.3.4 Recruitment. A few non-Muslim countries show Recruit 
Numbers that set the ability of Jihadists to add people to their cause 
in that country (8.2.4). (EXAMPLE: Philippines has a Recruit 
Number of “REC 3”.) 
4.4 Iran
IRAN is a special type of country (in game terms, neither “Muslim” 
nor “non-Muslim”). It has unchanging Governance like a non-Mus-
lim country but no Posture.
4.5 Schengen Countries 
A country connected to a Schengen symbol is adjacent 
to all Schengen countries, and all Schengen countries are 
adjacent to one another. (Thus, when a cell moves to a 
Schengen connection symbol, the Jihadist side may place 
that cell into any of the seven “SCHENGEN” country spaces that 
make up the Schengen area.)
4.6 Cells and Troops
4.6.1 Each of the 15 black cylinders in the game represents a cell 
of Jihadist plotters or fighters. Each of the 15 tan cubes represents 
a major unit of Western troops.
 
4.6.2 Cells and troops set up on respective tracks that serve as holding 
boxes for the cylinders and cubes when not in a country (4.7.3-4). 
Each country space has an area for any cells or troops there. 
4.6.3 The cylinders and cubes in the game are a limit on cells and 
troops that can be in play. 
EXAMPLE: The Jihadist may not place any cells via events or re-
cruiting if 15 are already in countries, leaving none on the Funding 
Track (4.7.4.).
4.6.4 Sleeper and Active Cells. Cells are either Sleeper or Active. 
(Place Sleeper cells crescent side down, Active cells crescent side 
up.) Cells are Sleeper or Active according to the following:
•	 Cells placed from the Funding Track (4.7.4) onto the map begin 
as Sleepers. 
•	 Sleeper cells used for Jihad (8.4) or Plot (8.5.1), that are 
Disrupted (7.4), or that are in a country at the moment of a 
Regime Change Deployment there (7.3.4) go Active. 
•	 Active cells that Travel (either between or within countries, 8.3.1) 
become Sleepers.
4.7 TRACKS AND BOXES
Several tracks and holding boxes regulate play. The tracks do limit 
game values. (EXAMPLE: Jihadist Funding never falls below 1 or 
exceeds 9; World Posture never exceeds Soft 3 or Hard 3.) Tracks 
and boxes and their uses include:
4.7.1 US Prestige Track. As Prestige changes, move 
the “US Prestige” marker between 1 and 12 to indicate 
corresponding Low, Medium, High, or Very High 
Prestige. Prestige can change for a variety of reasons 
(see Playbook for a summary). If a Prestige Roll is required, first 
roll to determine whether it will shift up or down (see the “Prestige” 
table on the Player Aid Card). Then roll two dice and shift Prestige 
by the lower roll.
DESIGN NOTE: Prestige represents the world’s (especially Mus-
lims’) overall affinity toward the United States, which affects US 
War of Ideas operations (4.9.2, 7.2.1) and some events. 
4.7.2 US GWOT (Global War on Terror) Relations Track. 
Determine World Posture by separately counting non-US Soft 
and Hard Posture markers on the map (always count Israel as 
holding a Hard marker) and subtracting the lower from the higher 
total for the value, with the higher total determining the side of 
the scale used. As Postures change, move (and flip) the “World 
Hard/Soft” marker along the Soft 3 to Hard 3 Posture scale and 
the “US Hard/Soft” marker between Soft and Hard. 
EXAMPLE: Three non-US countries at Soft and five at Hard would 
yield a World Posture of Hard 2. 
NOTE: Because US Posture is marked on the GWOT Relations 
track, the US space unlike other non-Muslim countries does not 
have a Posture box. 
4.7.2.1 GWOT Relations Penalty. If World and US Postures are 
different (one Hard, one Soft), the GWOT Relations Penalty equals 
the World Posture value (either “1”, “2”, or “3”); if Postures are the 
same (both Hard or both Soft) or World Posture is “0”, the Penalty 
is 0.
DESIGN NOTE: GWOT Relations represent non-Muslim unity or 
discord over tactics against extremism, affecting US War of Ideas 
operations (4.9.2 & 7.2), Prestige (5.2.5), and some events. 
4.7.3 Troops Track. Place any troops not in countries onto the 
Troops Track, five cubes per box, filling boxes from the right toward 
the left. Whenever troops Deploy from the track to countries, draw 
cubes from the left toward the right. Place and move the “Troops” 
marker into the right-most box with fewer than five troop cubes. 
Cells
Troops

EXAMPLE: If seven of the 15 troop cubes were deployed in various 
countries, the eight remaining troop cubes would be on the Troops 
track—five cubes in the “Overstretch” box and three cubes in the 
“War” box. The “Troops” marker would be in the “War” box with 
the three cubes, indicating that the US was at War rather than at 
Low Intensity or Overstretch.
DESIGN NOTE: The level of troop commitment influences other 
resources available for the struggle with extremism. In the game, 
that level influences US hand draw size (5.2.8) and some events.
4.7.4 Jihadist Funding Track. When cells are Recruited or placed 
by event into a country, draw them from the Funding Track, starting 
from the left and working toward the right. When cells are removed 
from countries, place them onto the Funding track, five cubes per 
box, filling boxes from the right toward the left.
4.7.4.1 Funding. As Funding changes, move the “Jihadist Funding” 
marker between 1 and 9 to indicate corresponding Tight, Moderate, 
or Ample Funding. 
DESIGN NOTE: Funding represents the rate of financial contri-
butions to extremist organizations from religious donors and other 
sources. It affects Jihadist recruitment and hand draw size. 
4.7.4.2 Available Cells. Only cells in a box below or to the left of the 
“Jihadist Funding” marker are Available to be Recruited (8.2.1). 
EXAMPLE: Funding is currently 6, and only three of 15 cells are 
active in various countries. The “Ample” box holds five unrecruited 
cells, the “Moderate” box another five, and the “Tight” box the re-
maining two. The seven cells in the “Tight” and “Moderate” boxes 
are Available and could be Recruited; the five in the “Ample” box 
are not. The first cells to be Recruited or placed into countries by 
events would come from the “Tight” box.
Unless otherwise specified, Funding affects cell placement only for 
Recruit operations. Event-driven placement occurs so long as cells 
remain on the Funding Track. Also, drops in Funding do not affect 
cells already present in countries.
4.7.5 Play Sequence Tracks. Move the “Card” marker along the 
Action Phases track as players play cards (5.2.2, 6.0). After each US 
Action Phase is completed and any Plots resolved, return the “Card” 
marker to the Jihadist “Card 1” space. Move the “Deck” marker one 
box to the right as each Reshuffle occurs (5.3.1).
4.7.6 Victory Tracks. Move the “Good Resources”, “Islamist 
Resources”, “Fair/Good”, and “Poor/Islamist” markers along the 
Victory track to record the respective Resource totals under Good 
Governance and Islamist Rule (2.1, 4.2.1, 4.2.5) and the numbers 
of countries at either Fair or Good and at either Poor or Islamist 
Rule.
4.7.7 Event Box. Place markers for Lingering events in effect (6.2.7) 
in the Event Box. 
Event Markers
PLAY NOTE: Many events affect a single country only, and play-
ers may wish for convenience to place such event markers in that 
country’s space instead of the Event Box. Similarly, some event 
markers have marker holding boxes near the multiple countries 
they affect.
4.7.7.1 Lapsing Event Boxes. When a LAPSING event occurs 
(6.2.7), place its card in a Lapsing Event box (if more than two 
LAPSING events are in play, double up or use their markers).
4.7.7.2 1st Plot Box. When the Jihadist side conducts its first Plot 
operation of a turn (8.5.3), place the card used into the 1st Plot box 
(as a reminder that subsequent cards for Plot operations trigger US 
events normally, 6.3.2 ). 
4.7.7.3 If a LAPSING or 1st Plot card is removed from a box 
before the end of a Turn (Example: Oil Price Spike or a mid-Turn 
reshuffle), replace it with the event’s marker or the “1st Plot” marker, 
respectively.
4.7.8 Available Plots. Place Available Plot markers (4.8.1, 7.5.3, 
8.5.2, 8.5.4) in the Available Plots box-any Plot markers in this box 
are Available to be placed into countries via Plot operations (8.5.2) 
or events. 
4.7.8.1 WMD Plot Boxes. Keep WMD Plot markers that are not yet 
Available (8.5.5) in the “Loose Nuke, HEU, & Kazakh Strain” and 
“Pakistan Arsenal” holding boxes, three markers per box.
•	 WMD Events: When an event makes a WMD Plot marker 
Available, place a marker from the “Loose Nuke, HEU, & Kazakh 
Strain” box into the Available Plots box, face down. 
•	 Pakistan: When PAKISTAN first comes under Islamist Rule 
(8.4.5), place the three WMD Plot markers from the “Pakistan 
Arsenal” box into the Available Plots box, face down.
NOTE: WMD Plot markers never return to the WMD or Available 
Plots boxes—once used in a Plot (8.5), they are removed from 
play.
4.7.9 Reserves Tracks. Each side records 
Reserves (6.3.3) on a Reserves Track. At the 
end of each turn, reset all Reserves to “0”. 
Blocked
Event
Effect
counts as 
two troops

4.8 OTHER MARKERS
4.8.1 Plot Markers. Six non-WMD Plot markers are numbered 
either “1”, “2”, or “3”. Keep them face down in the Available Plots 
box (4.7.8)—only the Jihadist side may inspect them (8.5.4). They 
may be reused. Higher value plots require higher-value operations 
cards to place.
	
4.8.2 Regime Change Markers. Keep Regime Change markers near 
the map. When a Regime Change operation occurs (7.3.4), place a 
green Regime Change marker on top of the troop cubes to indicate 
that they may not Deploy out of the country (7.3.1). After dealing 
new card hands (5.2.8), flip any green Regime Change markers to 
tan (5.2.9). Any country containing a Regime Change marker is a 
“Regime Change country” (7.3.4.1).
Clarification: “Withdrawal” (7.3.5) is another means by which the 
restriction on troop deployment from a Regime Change country is 
lifted.
NOTE: Via 2.3, green Regime Change markers prevent an easy 
last-turn reversal of Islamist victory. If the current turn is unlikely 
to be the last (3.3) and you wish to avoid the step of flipping the 
marker (5.2.9), place it tan side up. 
4.8.3 Aid/Besieged Regime Markers. Keep 
Aid/Besieged Regime markers near the map. 
Use them to mark countries strengthened by 
War of Ideas (7.2.2.1) or weakened by Jihad 
(8.4.3.1). They affect War of Ideas Table rolls (7.2.3) and Major 
Jihad success (8.4.3.2), respectively.
4.8.4 Cadre Markers. Keep cadre markers near the 
map. Whenever the last cell in a country without a 
cadre is removed by Disrupt (7.4) or event (not Jihad 
or Travel, 8.3-8.4), place a cadre there. Cadres enable 
Recruiting (8.2.2). Whenever a cell is placed from the Funding track 
into a country with a cadre, remove the cadre. The Jihadist player 
may remove any cadres during any Jihadist Action Phase.
4.9 TABLES
4.9.1 The outside of the player aid sheet has several die-roll tables 
used in the game: the “Governance”, “Posture”, “Prestige”, and 
“War of Ideas” tables.
4.9.2 War of Ideas Table. When the US side conducts a War of Ideas 
operation in a Muslim country (7.2.1), it must roll a 5 or more to 
succeed. Refer to the War of Ideas Table (on both Player Aid Cards) 
for modifiers to the roll. (War of Ideas in non-Muslim countries 
instead uses the Posture table, 4.9.3 & 7.2.3). 
4.9.3 Country Tables. Whenever rolling a country’s Governance 
(4.2.1-2) or Posture (4.3.2) or US Prestige (4.7.1), refer to the cor-
respondingly named table (found on both Player Aid Cards).
EXAMPLE: Event text “Roll US Posture” causes a roll on the Pos-
ture table. Modify the die roll by +1 if rolling for US’s Posture.
4.9.4 Initial Tests. Roll for Governance (if a Muslim country) 
or Posture (if a non-Muslim country) whenever a country whose 
Governance or Posture is not yet marked (an “unmarked” country) 
is selected as:
•	 the locale or target of an operation (including a failed Travel 
operation, 8.3.2), or
•	 has a cell or plot placed in it by an event, or
•	 is subject to “test” by event text.
An Initial Test of Governance always results in an Alignment of Neu-
tral. (A Regime Change Governance roll results in an Ally, 7.3.4.)
Important: Event instructions to “test” a country have no effect if 
the country is already marked with a Governance level or Posture. 
Also, note that “test” (roll only if unmarked) is different than “se-
lect” (player’s choice and a marked or unmarked country may be 
selected).
4.9.5 Mandatory Follow Through. The side triggering a test must 
carry out the action regardless of the outcome of the test. If the US 
side attempts a War of Ideas operation in a Muslim country with a 
card of insufficient value for the Governance resulting from a test 
(7.1, 7.2.1), the War of Ideas operation automatically fails.
EXAMPLE: The Jihadist side attempts to Travel (8.3) a cell from 
Iraq to Sudan when Sudan is unmarked. The triggered Initial Test 
roll of “5” marks Sudan as a Fair Neutral. The Jihadist side must 
roll Travel: a roll of “2” or less would place the cell in Sudan; a roll 
of “3” or higher would remove it to the Funding Track.
4.9.6 Jihadist Activities. A separate Jihadist Activities sheet (on the 
inside of both Player Aid Cards) is used only in a 1-player game, to 
help determine how and where Jihadists operate (9.4). 
4.10 CARDS
4.10.1 Each of the game’s 120 cards has an operations value; a sym-
bol if its event is associated with a side; an event name; flavor text; 
game text (often with a precondition, 6.2.6); and an event number. 
Some cards show that they are used only in scenarios that begin in 
certain years. Some show that the events have markers for linger-
ing or lapsing effects (6.2.7) or that the event occurs only once and 
then is removed (6.2.9). The US Election card is an automatically 
triggered event (6.3.1).
4.10.2 Flavor Text. Flavor text has no impact on play (it merely 
provides historical description). 
4.10.3 Event Number. Cards are numbered from 1-120 for identi-
fication purposes only. 
Plot number
Alert to remove
takes a 3-card 
(7.5.1)
green
tan
Scenarios used
Jihadist-associated (4.10.4)
Operations value (6.3)
Flavor text (4.10.2)
One-time
event (6.2.9)
Lingering
event (6.2.7) 
Game text (6.2.6)
Event number (4.10.3)

4.10.4 Association. All card events are associated with either the 
US or Jihadist sides or are Unassociated (6.2.5).
5.0 SEQUENCE OF PLAY
5.1 IN GENERAL
LABYRINTH continues until the instant that one side achieves one of 
its victory conditions (2.1) or the instant of the Reshuffle (1st, 2nd, 
or 3rd) that corresponds to the selected length of play (3.3). 
5.2 TURNS
5.2.1 In General. Play proceeds through a series of Turns compris-
ing alternating Action Phases. A Turn ends and a new Turn begins 
when each side has expended the cards it was dealt, or when the 
Jihadists have expended their cards and the US player then opts to 
hold a card (5.2.4). Each Turn follows this sequence:
5.2.2 Action Phases. In the first Action Phase, the Jihadist side plays 
two cards in succession from its hand. Then the US side does the 
same during its Action Phase, then the Jihadists, and so on. Place 
played cards in the Discard Pile. (EXCEPTION: LAPSING or 1st 
Plot, 4.7.7.1-2; REMOVE, 6.2.9.) A side with no cards remaining 
during its Action Phase does nothing (the Jihadist side may remove 
cadres, 4.8.4). In its action phase, the US side may discard or hold 
the last card remaining in its hand (5.2.4). 
NOTE: The card text “last Action Phase” during the US phase 
refers to the preceding Jihadist phase, and vice versa, even if in 
the previous Turn.
5.2.2.1 As each card is played, it must be used to carry out either its 
event (6.2) or operations (6.3).
5.2.2.2 Mark the play of cards on the Action Phase track. 
5.2.3 Unblocked Plots. At the end of each US Action Phase (whether 
or not the US played any cards), resolve all Plots in any countries 
(8.5.6).
5.2.4 Final US Card. In any US Action Phase that the US side is 
holding only one card, it may play it, discard it (without effect), or 
hold it. If the Jihadist side has expended its cards and the US side 
holds its final card, resolve any plots and end the turn.
5.2.5 Expenditures & Diplomacy. At the end of each turn, drop 
Funding by one (shift the “Jihadist Funding” marker one box 
leftward on the Funding Track). Drop Prestige by one (shift the 
“Prestige” marker leftward) if any country is under Islamist Rule. 
Then, if Net World Posture is “3” and the same as US Posture, add 
+1 Prestige (rightward). 
NOTE: Remember that a marker on a track may never fall below 
the lowest value on the track or exceed the highest value on the 
track. For example, if US Prestige is at “1” and is subject to a –1, 
it would remain “1”. Prestige of “1” subject to –1 and then +1 for 
Diplomacy would result in Prestige of “2”.
5.2.6 Event Lapse and 1st Plot Reset. After Diplomacy (5.2.5), 
place any cards in the Lapsing and 1st Plot boxes (4.7.7.1-2) onto 
the Discard Pile and set any markers there aside. All Lapsing event 
effects end at this moment.
5.2.7 Reserves. Then, set all Reserves to “0” (6.3.3.1).
5.2.8 Deal. Next, deal the Jihadist and the US sides alternate cards, 
up to the numbers indicated by the Funding and Troops tracks, and 
begin a new Turn. (Deal the indicated number of cards to the US 
player regardless of whether the player is holding a final card per 
5.2.4. There is no maximum hand size.) 	
	
5.2.9 Flip Regime Change. Finally, flip any green Regime Change 
markers to their tan side (4.8.2).
5.3 DRAW AND DISCARD PILES
5.3.1 Whenever a card is to be drawn but the Draw Deck is ex-
hausted, reshuffle the cards in the Discard Pile and Lapsing and 1st 
Plot boxes (4.7.7.1-2) to create a new Draw Deck and advance the 
“Deck” marker one box to the right. If it is the game-end reshuffle 
(3.3, 5.1), the game immediately ends: determine victory (2.3). 
5.3.2 Discarded and removed cards, cards in boxes, and the num-
bers of cards in each side’s hand and in the Draw Deck are open 
to inspection.
6.0 CARD PLAY
6.1 IN GENERAL
Cards may be played in one of two ways: as events or operations.
6.2 PLAYING CARDS AS EVENTS
6.2.1 When a side elects to play a card for the event, the operations 
value of the card is ignored (unless otherwise specified by the event 
itself), and the side immediately implements the event according to 
the game text on the card. 
6.2.2 Whenever event text conflicts with game rules, the event 
governs: follow the event text instead of any conflicting rules while 
implementing the event and, if lingering (6.2.7), as long as the event 
remains in effect (not blocked or lapsed).
EXAMPLE: Play of the UN Nation Building event could allow a 
War of Ideas roll in a Regime Change country, even if troops did 
not exceed cells by five, because the card text “Play if a country is 
marked with Regime Change…roll a War of Ideas…” trumps the 
restrictions in rule 7.2.1.
6.2.3 Conflicts. Should one event’s text conflict with another, the 
last-played event supersedes for as long as it remains in effect. 
6.2.4 When an event occurs, implement whatever aspects apply, 
including MARK (6.2.7) and REMOVE (6.2.9), even if other 
aspects do not.
EXAMPLE: US play of the Ansar Al-Islam card for operations trig-
gers the event (6.3.2), but there are no cells on the Funding Track. 
No cell is placed (4.6.2 & 4.7.4), but the card is removed from the 
game (6.2.9).
6.2.5 Associated. A card with an event associated with a side may 
be played for its event only by that side (either side may play the 
card for operations, 6.3.1-2.). 
6.2.6 Playable. Many cards have events with preconditions for play 
(in gray text): if the preconditions are not met, these cards cannot 
be played as events (only for operations). Similarly, blocked events 
are not playable (6.2.8). 
US-associated
 Jihadist-associated
 	 	
 Unassociated

6.2.7 Lingering and Lapsing.
•	 Lingering: A card that says MARK has an event with lingering 
effects. When playing such an event, place its marker into the 
Event Box or at the appropriate country space as a reminder 
(4.7.7).
•	 Lapsing: An event that says LAPSING has effects that linger only 
for the remainder of the Turn. When playing the event, place the 
card in a LAPSING card holding box as a reminder (4.7.7.1). 
6.2.8 Blocking. Certain events block other events: a card with a 
blocked event can be played only for operations; the effects of a 
lingering event (6.2.7) end (flip or remove its marker) if a new event 
is played that blocks it.
NOTE: The markers of lingering events that block other events list 
the blocked events in brackets (see illustration 4.7.7).
6.2.9 One-Time Events. The event of a card that says REMOVE can 
occur only once per game. When played as an event (only—NOT 
when the card is used for operations or discarded!), permanently 
remove it from play.
6.3 PLAYING CARDS FOR OPERATIONS
6.3.1 A side can play a card for its operations value regardless of 
the event or association on it. The player selects a type of operation 
and uses the value of the card to implement it (7.0 or 8.0). EXCEP-
TION: Play of US Election always triggers the event; the playing 
side chooses whether the operations or the event occur first. 
6.3.2 Triggering the Other Side’s Events. Play of a card for opera-
tions that has an event associated with the opposing side immediately 
causes the event to occur. EXCEPTION: The first Jihadist card used 
for Plot operations each turn does not trigger any US event, 8.5.3.
6.3.2.1 The side playing the triggering card chooses whether the 
event or the operation(s) occurs first. If—at the moment that the 
event is to occur—the event is blocked or has a precondition that is 
not met (6.2.6), the event does not occur. 
6.3.2.2 Implement the event as if the side that it is associated with 
played it, with the associated player making any decisions involved. 
MARK (6.2.7) or REMOVE (6.2.9) normally. 
6.3.2.3 Use of a card with a friendly or unassociated event for 
operations—or discard of any card—does not trigger the event 
(EXCEPTION: US Election).
6.3.3 Reserves. Both sides may play 1- or 2-value cards for Reserves 
operations. A Reserves operation adds the card’s value to that side’s 
Reserves Track, to a maximum of “2”. If the card has a playable 
event associated with the opposing side, the event immediately 
occurs (6.3.2). 
6.3.3.1 A side may expend all its Reserves (back to “0”) to add that 
value (1 or 2) to a card it plays that turn for other operations (only, 
not for events such as Back Channel), to a maximum card value of 
“3”. EXCEPTION: The US may not use Reserves for Reassess-
ment (7.6).
EXAMPLE: The US side has two Reserves and wishes to Alert a 
Plot, which requires a 3-value card play (7.5.1). By expending all 
Reserves, the US may play a 1- or 2-value card as though it were a 
3-value card (Reserves bring a card’s value up to a maximum of 3) 
to perform the Alert Operation.
6.3.3.2 Reserves not expended by the end of the turn are lost 
(5.2.7). 
7.0 US OPERATIONS
Each US card play for operations conducts a single operation 
(EXCEPTION: Reassessment, 7.6.2). The US player aid sheet sum-
marizes this section.
7.1 IN GENERAL
7.1.1 Operations Value Requirement. The operations value re-
quired depends on Governance in the target country: 
•	 Good: 1 or higher (i.e., any card—1, 2, or 3)
•	 Fair: 2 or higher (i.e., a 2- or 3-value card)
•	 Poor: 3 only
•	 Islamist Rule: Regime Change only (using a 3-card, 7.1.3 & 
7.3.4).
EXCEPTION: Alert always costs a 3-value card (7.5.1)
EXAMPLE: The US player wishes to conduct War of Ideas in the 
Gulf States to improve Governance there. Governance there cur-
rently is “Fair-2”, so the US player will have to play either a 2- or 
3-value card to carry out the operation.
7.1.2 US Options. Beyond Reserves (6.3.3), the US operations 
options are:
•	 War of Ideas to improve alignment or governance or alter posture 
to boost world relations and prestige.
•	 Deploy troops to a country, possibly to change a regime (or bring 
them home to the Troops track).
•	 Disrupt Jihadist cells or cadre (and raise US prestige).
•	 Alert to thwart or mitigate a terrorist plot.
•	 Reassessment of US Posture.
7.1.3 US Operations in an Islamist Country: The only US opera-
tion allowed in an Islamist Rule country is a special form of Deploy 
called Regime Change (7.3.4).
7.2 WAR OF IDEAS
Unlike other US operations, War of Ideas requires a die roll for 
success. War of Ideas operations targeting Muslim countries (7.2.1) 
use the War of Ideas table (4.9.2) and die roll modifiers found there, 
while those targeting non-Muslim countries (7.2.3) use the Posture 
table (4.9.3).
7.2.1 War of Ideas in a Muslim Country
7.2.1.1 A War of Ideas operation in a Muslim country allows the 
US side to roll once on the War of Ideas Table to improve a Neutral 
or untested country’s Alignment or an Ally country’s Governance. 
The target Muslim country may not be an Adversary. A successful 
roll shifts a Neutral country to Ally (4.2.3) or improves an Ally 
country’s Governance by one level—from Poor to Fair or from Fair 
to Good (4.2.1-2). 
NOTE: A shift to Good removes any Regime Change, Besieged 
Regime, or Aid markers. 
7.2.1.2 Procedure: Roll one 6-sided die. A modified roll of “5” or 
more is needed to succeed. Modifiers depend on whether attempting 
a shift from Fair to Good, Prestige, GWOT Relations, Aid markers, 
and any adjacent Good Ally. (See 4.9.2 and the War of Ideas Table 
on both Player Aid Cards. Note that negative modifiers may make 
success impossible.) 
7.2.1.3 Regime Change. War of Ideas may occur in a country marked 
with Regime Change (7.3.4, 7.3.4.1) only if the number of troops 
there exceeds the number of cells by at least five. 

7.2.2 Aid Markers
7.2.2.1 The First Aid Marker. When making a War of 
Ideas die roll in a Muslim Country, if the success die roll 
fails by one pip (examples: a roll of “4” when 5+ was 
needed for success, or a roll of “6” when a theoretical 
7+ was needed) in a country without Aid, then place an Aid marker 
there. (Events also may place the first Aid marker in a country.)
7.2.2.2 Additional Aid Markers. War of Ideas can place only the 
first Aid marker in a country—only events can add additional Aid. 
Aid markers accumulate until removed.
7.2.2.3 Removal of Aid Markers. A shift to Good Governance or 
Islamist Rule removes all Aid from a country. A successful Jihad or 
Plot resolution roll removes one Aid (8.4.1-2, 8.5.6).
7.2.3 War of Ideas in a Non-Muslim Country
A War of Ideas operation in a Non-Muslim country other than the 
United States or Israel allows the US side to roll once on the Posture 
table to determine (or change) the country’s Posture (4.3.2, 4.9.3-4). 
(Make one roll, whether or not Posture has already been marked.) A 
roll of 1-4 results in Soft Posture, 5-6 in Hard. If a target country’s 
Posture after a War of Ideas operation is the same as that of the US, 
add +1 to Prestige.
7.3 DEPLOY
7.3.1 A Deploy operation allows the US side to move any number 
of troops from any one location (including the Troops Track) to 
another. 
EXCEPTION: Troops may not Deploy from a Regime Change 
country (7.3.4.1) if it would leave fewer than five more troops there 
than cells (see also Withdraw, 7.3.5). 
DESIGN NOTE: Troops in Regime Change countries are participat-
ing in reconstruction and securing the new government against en-
emies beyond the Jihadists, such as secular insurgents or bandits.
7.3.2 The Governance of the destination country determines the 
minimum operations value needed. Use any card to Deploy to the 
Troops Track (i.e., treat the Troops Track as “Good-1”). 
7.3.3 A destination country at the moment of the Deploy operation 
must be an Ally and thus must be a Muslim country (Exception: 
Regime Change, 7.3.4).
7.3.4 Regime Change. Regime Change is a special type of Deploy 
operation. It requires the US to be at Hard Posture and have at least 
six troops able to Deploy (from a single location and not committed 
to other Regime Change countries per 7.3.1). The destination must 
be a country under Islamist Rule (unlike normal Deploy per 7.3.3, 
the country need not be an Ally). Play a 3-value card (may include 
Reserves, 6.3.3.1) and:
•	 Deploy at least six troops into the country.
•	 Place a green Regime Change marker on them (4.8.2).
•	 Roll its Governance on the Country Tests table. 
•	 Shift its Alignment to Ally.
•	 Shift any Sleeper cells there to Active (4.7.4.1).
•	 Roll Prestige
NOTE: The Regime Change marker on the 
troops acts as a reminder that some or all 
may not Deploy out (7.3.1) unless With-
drawing (7.3.5). 
7.3.4.1 Regime Change Countries. Any country with a Regime 
Change marker is a “Regime Change country.” Only Poor or Fair 
countries can be Regime Change countries. Immediately remove any 
Regime Change marker from a country whose Governance shifts to 
either Good or Islamist Rule.
7.3.5 Withdraw. Withdraw is a second special type of Deploy opera-
tion. It requires the US to be at Soft Posture and to have troops in a 
Regime Change country (7.3.4.1). Play a 3-value card (may include 
Reserves, 6.3.3.1) and:
•	 Deploy any number troops out of the Regime Change country 
(regardless of cells present).
•	 Remove any Aid markers there.
•	 Place a Besieged Regime marker there (if there is not one 
already).
•	 Roll Prestige.
NOTE: The Regime Change marker remains.
7.4 DISRUPT
Disrupt operations allow the US side to:
•	 Remove Active cells.
•	 Make Sleeper cells Active.
•	 Remove cadre.
7.4.1 A Disrupt operation requires a target country that has at least 
one cell or cadre in it and:
•	 Is an Ally, or
•	 Has at least two troops in it, or
•	 Is non-Muslim (not IRAN).
7.4.2 A Disrupt operation in a country with at least two troops or 
whose Posture is Hard affects two cells selected by the US side. 
Otherwise, it affects one US-selected cell. Disrupt of an Active 
cell removes it to the Funding Track. Disrupt of a Sleeper cell shifts 
it to Active. Alternatively, if there are no cells present, Disrupt 
removes a cadre. 
NOTE: A single Disrupt of two cells—one Active, one Sleeper—
would remove the first and make the second Active. A single Disrupt 
operation could NOT first make Active and then remove a single 
Sleeper cell, nor could it remove both cells and cadre.
7.4.3 If a Disrupt operation removes the last cell in a country, place 
a cadre marker (4.8.4). 
7.4.4 If a Disrupt operation occurs in a country with at least two 
troops, raise Prestige by +1 (even if it only shifted cells to Active 
or removed a cadre).
7.5 ALERT
7.5.1 An Alert operation requires a 3-value card, regardless of Gov-
ernance (may include Reserves, 6.3.3.1).
7.5.2 An Alert operation allows the US side to select, reveal, and 
block (remove) one Plot marker from any country (including an 
Adversary or IRAN). 
7.5.3 The US player may inspect the Plot marker only after selecting 
it (8.5.4). If a WMD Plot, remove it from the game (8.5.5); otherwise, 
return it face down to the Available Plots box.
NOTE: All unblocked Plots are resolved at the end of each US Action 
Phase (5.2.3), so there is a limited window for Alert.

7.6 REASSESSMENT
7.6.1 A Reassessment operation allows the US side to change US 
Posture from Hard to Soft or Soft to Hard.
7.6.2 Unlike other US operations, a Reassessment requires play 
of two cards, each of 3 value (no Reserves, 6.3.3.1), taking up an 
entire US Action Phase.
7.6.3 The US player decides what order the Posture switch and any 
triggered Jihadist events occur (6.3.2). The posture switch must be 
carried out. 
NOTE: Certain events or resolution of a plot in the United States 
(8.5.6) also can change US Posture.
Clarification: The Posture switch must be carried out.
8.0 JIHADIST OPERATIONS
The Jihadist player aid sheet summarizes this section.
8.1 IN GENERAL
8.1.1 Operations Value. Unlike US operations, Jihadist operations 
can use any card, regardless of a target country’s Governance. 
However, almost all Jihadist operations require die rolls. Card value 
determines the number of dice rolled (8.1.2). Governance determines 
the success range of rolls:
•	 Good: 1 (1 only)
•	 Fair: 2 or less (1 or 2)
•	 Poor: 3 or less (1, 2, or 3)
•	 Islamist Rule: Automatic (all rolls succeed).
EXCEPTIONS: Recruiting in Regime Change countries (8.2.3) and 
Travel to adjacent or within the same countries (8.3.1) is automatic.
8.1.2 Procedure: For each card played for operations, select and 
announce one type of operation and where the operation(s) will oc-
cur. (Multiple locales may be involved.) Then roll a number of dice 
equal to the card’s value to determine how many of the operations 
succeed. (If more than one country is involved, specify before roll-
ing which dice are being rolled for which locales. All rolls from a 
given card are considered simultaneous.) 
EXAMPLE: The Jihadist side plays a 3-value card for operations 
and announces that the operations type will be Recruit and that two 
attempts will occur in AFGHANISTAN and one in Central Asia, 
both currently at Fair Ally. The player rolls two dice and one die, 
respectively, and places a cell for each roll of 1 or 2. If the player 
rolled three successes but only two cells were Available (4.7.4.2 & 
8.2.1), the player would then select how to distribute the two cells 
between the two countries.
The Jihadist side then plays a 
second 3-value card and an-
nounces it will be for Travel. 
The player specifies that one 
cell in AFGHANISTAN will 
attempt Travel to the United 
States and a second in AF-
GHANISTAN plus a third in 
PAKISTAN will attempt Travel 
to Iraq, currently a Poor Ad-
versary. The player then makes 
three separate rolls, the Travel to the US succeeding only on a 1, 
those to Iraq on 1-3. 
8.1.3 Jihadist Options
Beyond Reserves (6.3.3), the Jihadist operations options are:
•	 Recruit to raise new cells in countries.
•	 Travel cells between countries, or within a country to go to ground 
(sleep).
•	 Jihad (guerrilla warfare) to strike at Governance and foment 
Islamist revolution.
•	 Plot terror attacks to increase funding, harm US prestige, provoke 
security reactions that worsen Governance, cancel aid programs, 
alter a country’s Posture to disorder the West’s relations, or dev-
astate the US Homeland.
8.2 RECRUIT
8.2.1 For each successful roll, a Recruit operation places one Avail-
able Sleeper cell into a country. (“Available” means that the cell must 
be taken from a box on the Funding Track below or to the left of the 
Funding marker, 4.7.4.2.) A failed Recruit roll has no effect.
8.2.2 The country must already have a cell or cadre present. If a cadre 
is present, it is removed as soon as the first cell is placed (4.8.4).
8.2.3 Regime Change Recruiting. Recruit rolls in Regime Change 
countries (7.3.4.1) automatically succeed.
8.2.4 Recruit Numbers. A few non-Muslim countries have printed 
“REC” die-roll numbers (4.3.4). Recruit operations there ignore 
Governance and instead must roll less than or equal to the printed 
“REC” number to succeed.
EXAMPLE: Recruit operations in the PHILIPPINES succeed on 
rolls of 3 or less, not 2 or less.
8.3 TRAVEL
8.3.1 Each point of card value used for Travel enables a cell to move 
from country to country and, if Active, shifts it to Sleeper. Non-adja-
cent Travel must roll the destination country’s Governance number 
or less to succeed. Travel between adjacent countries or within a 
country (in order to recover Sleep status) automatically succeeds. 
8.3.2 Failed Travel Rolls. A failed Travel roll removes the cell to 
the Funding Track (do not place a cadre, 4.8.4). 
8.3.3 Designate all origin and destination countries for a card play be-
fore rolling. A cell may only Travel once on play of a given card.
Note that a Travel attempt to an unmarked country would result in 
a Test of the country’s Governance or Posture before executing the 
Travel (4.9.4).
8.4 JIHAD
A Jihad operation targets Governance and Aid. The target countries 
must be Muslim (not IRAN) and not under Islamist Rule. At least 
one cell must be present in each target country for each roll made 
there. Any Sleeper cell used to support this roll shifts to Active. 
8.4.1 Minor Jihad. Each successful roll worsens Governance in 
that roll’s target country by one level toward Poor (Good to Fair, 
Fair to Poor) and removes one Aid marker. Note that, unless condi-
tions for Major Jihad are met (8.4.2), a Jihad operation cannot shift 
a country to Islamist Rule.
8.4.2 Major Jihad. If the number of cells in the country exceeds 
the number of troops by five or more at the operation’s outset and 
the Jihadist side chooses in advance to shift all Sleeper cells there to 
Active, then two successful rolls on a single card worsen Governance 
from Poor to Islamist Rule (see 8.4.4). Each successful roll removes 
one Aid. Note that, with the exception of Besieged Regime (8.4.3.2), 

a 2- or 3-value card is needed to get to Islamist Rule.
8.4.3 Failed Jihad. Each failed Jihad roll removes a cell to the 
Funding Track (do not place a cadre, 4.8.4). 
8.4.3.1 Major Jihad Failure. Whenever the Jihadists roll three dice 
for Jihad in a country already at Poor and fail to shift it to Islamist Rule, 
place a “Besieged Regime” marker in the country (if one is not already 
there) and shift the country’s Alignment one box toward Ally.
8.4.3.2 Besieged Regime. A country with a Besieged Re-
gime marker requires only one successful Jihad roll (rather 
than two) to shift it from Poor Governance to Islamist Rule. 
A country may have at most one Besieged Regime marker. 
Remove the marker if Governance shifts to Good or Islamist Rule.
8.4.4 Islamist Revolution. Whenever Governance shifts to Islamist 
Rule, mark Alignment as Adversary (regardless of any failure roll) 
and remove any Regime Change, Besieged Regime, or Aid markers. 
Increase Funding by that country’s Resources. If troops are present, 
set Prestige to “1”. (The troops remain.)
8.4.5 Pakistani Arsenal. The first time PAKISTAN shifts to Islamist 
Rule, place the three WMD Plot markers from the Pakistani Arsenal 
Box into the Available Plots box (4.7.8.1). They are Available for 
later Plots.
JIHAD EXAMPLE A: There are two cells in a country at Good, and all 
other cells are in non-Muslim or Islamist Rule countries. The Jihadists 
play a 3-card for Jihad, but can only use 2 of the 3 operations value. 
Both cells go Active. The rolls are a “1” and a “4”. The die roll of 
“1” is a success and worsens Governance to Fair, while the die roll 
of “4” is a failure and causes one cell to be removed.
JIHAD EXAMPLE B: Jihadists have six Sleeper cells in a Neutral 
country under Fair-2 Governance and use three operations for 
Major Jihad there, rolling “1”, “2”, and “3”. The cells shift to Ac-
tive. The first success (the “1”) shifts Governance to Poor. Because 
there is only one additional success (the “2”), there is no further 
shift from Poor to Islamist Rule (8.4.2), even though there were five 
more cells than troops. The single failure (the “3”) removes one cell 
(8.4.3). The “3” fails because the simultaneous rolls were against 
“Fair-2” (8.1.2). No Besieged Regime marker is placed, nor does 
Alignment shift to Ally, because the target was not at Poor at the 
commencement of the operation (8.4.3.1). Note that a single 3-card 
play can be both a Minor and Major Jihad at the same time if played 
on a Fair country and all three rolls succeed.
JIHAD EXAMPLE C: The Jihadist side plays a 3-card and announc-
es Major Jihad in PAKISTAN, a Poor Ally where there currently are 
seven cells, two troops, and an Aid marker. After shifting all seven 
cells to Active, the Jihadist player picks up and rolls three dice, 
obtaining rolls of “2”, “3”, and “4”. The “4”—a failure—causes 
removal of a cell from PAKISTAN, leaving six cells there, while the 
“2” and “3”—the two successful rolls needed for Islamist Revolu-
tion—worsen Pakistan’s Governance from Poor to Islamist Rule. The 
player shifts PAKISTAN from Poor Ally to Islamist Rule Adversary, 
removes the Aid, shifts Funding up by two (+2), and places the three 
WMD Plot markers from the Pakistani Arsenal box into the Event 
Box for later Jihadist use. US Prestige drops to “1”; the two troops 
remain in Islamist Rule PAKISTAN.
8.5 PLOT
8.5.1 In General. A Plot operation may target any coun-
try (including IRAN) not under Islamist Rule. At least 
one cell must be present in each target country for each 
roll made there, and any Sleeper cell used to allow a roll 
shifts to Active. At least one Plot roll must be made for a card to be 
used as a Plot operation to avoid a US-associated event (8.5.3).
8.5.2 Procedure. Roll the appropriate number of dice (8.1.1). Each 
successful roll places into the target country an Available Plot 
marker with a number equal to or less than the card value used, or 
an available WMD marker, face down (8.5.4). A failed Plot roll has 
no further effect.
NOTE: The Plot markers in the game limit the number and types of 
Plots that can be placed at a time (4.8.1). “Available Plots” are those 
markers currently in the Available Plots box (4.7.8 & 8.5.5.). 
8.5.3 First Plot. The first use each turn of a card for Plot operations 
ignores rather than triggers any US-associated event (6.3.2). (Place 
the card in the 1st Plot box as a reminder, 4.7.7.2.).
Tip: Always place the first card you execute a Plot Operation with 
in the 1st Plot box on the map as a reminder that the Jihadists have 
conducted their 1st Plot Operation.
NOTE: This allows the Jihadist player the ability to ignore one US-
associated event in his hand each turn. The card does not have to be 
the first card he plays, just the first Plot operation he conducts. Also 
note that the Jihadist side could not avoid a US-associated event with 
a 1st Plot if only Islamist Rule countries had cells (8.5.1).
8.5.4 Hidden Plots. Keep placed Plot markers face down (showing 
just “Terror Plot”, 4.8.1)—only the Jihadist side may inspect them. 
Reveal their values (or WMD) to the US only as they are blocked 
by Alert or resolved. 
8.5.5 WMD Plots. Any WMD Plot markers in the Available Plots 
box may be placed upon any successful Plot operation roll (8.5.2). 
When a WMD Plot is either blocked (7.5.2-3) or resolved, remove 
the WMD Plot marker from the game.
8.5.6 Unblocked Plots. At the end of each US Action Phase, the 
Jihadist player must reveal and resolve any Plot markers that remain 
in any countries. He chooses the order. Resolution is as follows:
VICTORY
•	 If a WMD Plot in the US, the Jihadists win.
FUNDING
•	 For any Plot in a Muslim country or IRAN, add +1 to Funding 
if Governance is worse than Good; or +2 if the country is at 
Good.
•	 For a non-WMD Plot in a non-Muslim country outside the US, 
increase Funding by the Plot number or, if at Good, by twice that 
number.
•	 For a WMD Plot in a non-Muslim country, or any Plot in the US, 
set Funding to “9”.
POSTURE
•	 If the plot is in a non-Muslim country (including the US), roll the 
country’s Posture. If WMD in a 2-player game, the Jihadist side 
may reroll this result once.
•	 If in the Schengen area, the Jihadist side selects two other Schen-
gen countries and rolls their Postures.

PRESTIGE
•	 If the target country has troops, lower Prestige by one (–1) or set 
Prestige to “1” if the Plot is WMD.
•	 If in the US, make a Prestige roll. 
GOVERNANCE AND AID
•	 If the plot is in a Muslim country, roll a number of dice equal to 
the Plot number (3 dice if WMD) as if attempting a Jihadist opera-
tion in the country (8.1). Each success removes one Aid marker 
and worsens Governance by one level, but not to Islamist Rule. 
Failure has no effect. 
MARKER
•	 Return the Plot marker to the Available Plots box (or remove it 
from the game if WMD).
NOTE: Both Player Aid Cards summarize how to resolve Unblocked 
Plots.
STOP!! 
You have read all the 2-player rules.
The remaining rules apply only to solitaire.
9.0 JIHADIST ACTIVITIES
(1-PLAYER)
This section contains rules for playing the game solitaire and modi-
fies previous sections. When in conflict, the rules in this section take 
precedence for solitaire play. To play the game solitaire, the player 
takes the US side. This rules section and the Jihadist Activities chart 
govern the Jihadists.
9.1 HOW TO WIN
Elimination of the last cell does not cause a US win (continue play). 
Islamist Rule over 6 or more Resources results in a Jihadist win, 
regardless of adjacency (modifies 2.1). If the game ends via Reshuffle 
(3.3), the US loses a 1-deck game if fewer than 6 Resources are 
Good, loses a 2-deck game if fewer than 9, and a 3-deck game if 
fewer than 12 (modifies 2.3; other conditions still apply).
9.2 SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
Deal the Jihadists’ cards (5.2.8) as a face-down pile, playing, remov-
ing, or adding cards from or to the top. Inspect them (5.3.2) only 
to implement the Intel Community or FSB events. After resolving 
FSB, shuffle the Jihadist hand. 
EXAMPLE: Event instructions to take a “random” Jihadist card 
would take the top Jihadist card.
OPTIONAL 
For less variability in difficulty, divide the deck at set up and after 
each Reshuffle into three face-down, shuffled “mini-decks”:
•	 Unassociated events, 
•	 Jihadist-associated events, 
•	 US-associated events. 
Deal and shuffle the entire Jihadist hand, then deal the US hand. 
For each deal or event-driven draw from the deck, draw one 
card from each mini-deck that still has cards, in the above order, 
returning to Unassociated after US-associated. Exhaustion of all 
three mini-decks triggers Reshuffle (5.3.1).
9.3 OPERATIONS
9.3.1 Choosing Cells. For operations or events from Jihadist card 
play, choose any Active cells within a country before Sleeper cells. 
EXCEPTION: Choose Sadr last.
9.3.2 Placing Plots. Plot success or event places a random Plot 
marker from Available Plots (modifies 8.5.2—note that card value 
does not restrict Plot value; Danish Cartoons and Zarqawi still place 
a specific numbered Plot if indicated).
9.3.3 Acquiring WMD. Each WMD Plot marker added to the Event 
Box replaces one of the lowest available numbered Plot markers. 
(Set replaced Plot markers aside so that there are always exactly 6 
Plot markers in play.) When a WMD Plot marker is used, return the 
highest set-aside numbered Plot marker to the Event Box (modifies 
4.7.8.1).
9.4 JIHADIST CARD PLAY 
Implement each Jihadist card play (6.0) as follows. 
NOTE: The Jihadist Activities charts on the inside of both Player 
Aid Cards summarize this section.
9.4.1 Event or OPS? 
First, follow the “Event or OPS?” flow chart to determine whether 
the card’s event occurs and what, if any, operations the Jihadist side 
will perform:
•	 If the card is a playable (6.2.6) Jihadist or Unassociated event, 
play the event (even if it provides no effect or to US advantage). 
EXCEPTION: When there are no cells on the Funding track, 
an event that would Recruit or place a cell instead triggers 
Radicalization (9.4.3).
•	 If the card drawn is a playable US event, Plot; no event occurs.
•	 If the Jihadists played an Unassociated event or the event is not 
playable, roll Major Jihad if a successful Major Jihad (one that 
could result in Islamist Rule, 8.4.2) is possible. 
•	 If Major Jihad success is not possible, roll Minor Jihad if possible 
in a Good or Fair country.
•	 If Jihad is not possible in a Good or Fair country, Recruit if 
any cells are Available (4.7.4.2) and the GTMO event is not in 
effect.
•	 If no cells are Available or GTMO is in effect, Travel.
For any unusable operations value left over, see Radicalization 
(9.4.3).
Note that Jihadist card play never triggers US events (6.3.2; ignore 
“1st Plot”, 4.7.7.2) nor uses Reserves (6.3.3) and, for playable 
Unassociated events, yields the event before the operations.
9.4.2 Where? 
Second, use the appropriate “Where?” flow chart or Random Country 
die roll tables (9.5) to determine where Jihadist operations or events 
occur. Within each green flow chart box, apply the “Priorities” listed 
in the appropriate white box, as needed, to select a country. To the 
degree possible with cells present in a given country, and unless 
otherwise noted (such as Travel, 9.4.2.6-6.1; Radicalization, 9.4.3), 
conduct Jihadist operations from a given card within a selected 
country before moving on to another.
9.4.2.1 For event-driven activities, use Jihadist Activities charts as 
follows:
•	 For Plot placement, use “Plot”. If Radicalization results, use the 
card’s value for Radicalization (9.4.3) and ignore the event. (For 

Zarqawi cell and plot placement follow cell placement, below.)
•	 For Governance or Alignment shifts, use “Minor Jihad”. For Iran 
and Jaysh Al-Mahdi, roll on the “Shia-Mix” table (9.5), test the 
resulting country if Unmarked, then find the closest applicable 
country at Good then Fair.
•	 For cell placement, select randomly among potential countries 
(9.5). For Lebanon War, roll on the “Shia-Mix” table. For Jihadist 
Videos and Madrassas Recruitment (including the subsequent 
card), roll on the “Global” table (9.5) and find the closest 
applicable country.
•	 For Schengen Visas Travel, begin at the indicated “To” box to 
select destinations, rolling on the “Schengen” table if there are 
several possibilities. For Clean Operatives, the 2 cells’ destina-
tion is the UNITED STATES. For either event, use “From” for 
origin.
Note that a handful of events have additional solitaire implementa-
tion instructions (9.6).
9.4.2.2 Roll for or place Plots as much as possible in the United 
States, then:
•	 If Prestige is above Low, first in the PHILIPPINES if Abu Sayyaf 
is in effect and the PHILIPPINES hosts at least as many cells as 
troops, then in countries with troops.
•	 Then, if the GWOT Penalty is 0 (4.7.2.1), in countries with the 
same Posture as the US.
•	 Then in countries with Aid markers.
•	 Then, if Funding is less than 9, in any non-Muslim, and then 
Muslim countries or IRAN.
•	 Then use any remaining operations for Radicalization (9.4.3).
Within the sequence above, give priority to Fair countries over Good 
then Poor if conducting Plot operations; Good over Fair then Poor 
if placing plots via event.
9.4.2.3 If Major Jihad is possible in more than one country, select 
PAKISTAN, then the country with the highest Resources.
9.4.2.4 Roll Minor Jihad or shift Governance or Alignment first in 
countries at Good, then Fair. Then, if shifting Alignment, do so in a 
country at Poor. Within this sequence, target PAKISTAN first, then 
countries with Aid, then Besieged Regimes, then the highest Re-
sources. Use any remaining operations for Radicalization (9.4.3).
9.4.2.5 In descending order of priority, Recruit in:
•	 A Regime Change country where troops outnumber cells by five 
or more, 
•	 An Islamist Rule country with fewer cells than twice the operations 
value of the card, 
•	 A non-Islamist Rule and non-Regime Change country with 
the highest required roll for Recruit success (whether due to 
Governance, 8.1.1, or Recruit Number). 
Within this sequence, select a Besieged Regime, if any, then the 
country with the highest sum of troops plus cells, then (if the choice 
is only among Muslim countries) the country with the highest Re-
sources. Roll one Recruit operation at a time. If there is no suitable 
location, or if Available cells on the Funding Track run out while 
operations value remains, conduct Radicalization (9.4.3). 
NOTE: For cell placement by event, Jihadist Videos, and Madras-
sas, use 9.5 to select randomly rather than using this sequence 
(9.4.2.1).
9.4.2.6 For Travel, first select all destinations, in descending order, 
for one cell each (maximum per category or flowchart box): 
•	 A non-Islamist Rule country with Besieged Regime, then Regime 
Change, then Aid, if any.
•	 A Poor country where Major Jihad would be possible if two (or 
fewer) cells were added.
•	 A Good or Fair Muslim country with at least one cell adjacent.
•	 An unmarked non-Muslim country if US Posture is Hard, or a 
Soft non-Muslim country if US Posture is Soft. 
If operations remain, select a destination randomly (9.5) for Travel 
with that number of cells. Within the bulleted categories above, select 
PAKISTAN first, then (if all possibilities are Muslim), from among 
those with the highest Resources. If the Biometrics event is in play 
and no cells are adjacent to the selected destination, use the card’s 
operations value for Radicalization instead (9.4.3). 
9.4.2.6.1 Next, separately select the origin for each destination, in 
descending order:
•	 An Islamist Rule country with more cells than the card’s operations 
value.
•	 Regime Change country with more than 5 cells.
•	 An adjacent country.
•	 Randomly among countries with cells, including the destination 
country itself (resulting, if selected, in any Active cell used be-
coming a Sleeper, 4.6.4).
Within the bulleted categories above, first select countries with at 
least one Active cell not yet committed to Travel. If possible, avoid 
selecting any separate destination country as an origin on the same 
card play. If the last cell in an Islamist Rule or Regime Change coun-
try travels, it travels within the country (becomes or stays a Sleeper, 
4.6.4) rather than to the destination selected per 9.4.2.6.
9.4.2.6.2 Finally, conduct all Travel (one attempt per cell).
9.4.3 Radicalization
When the flowcharts set up a situation where the Jihadists cannot 
use any operations value received from a card, instead:
•	 If the Funding track has a cell, the 1st operations value remaining 
automatically places one cell into a random country.
•	 The next operations value Travels one cell (determine destination 
and origin using the flowcharts, 9.4.2.6, starting at the second “To” 
box); the Travel automatically succeeds (ignore Biometrics). 
•	 If Funding is less than 9, the next operations value automatically 
places a Plot (9.3.2) into a random non-Islamist Rule country with 
a cell.
•	 Each operations value that remains automatically worsens the 
Governance of a randomly selected Good or Fair Muslim country 
by one level.
EXAMPLE: The Jihadist card is a 3-value playable US event, but 
there is only one cell on the map. Conduct one Plot operation with 
the cell (9.4.1), then place one cell from the track (regardless of 
Funding) into a randomly-selected country (9.5), then automatically 
Travel with one cell.
9.5 RANDOM COUNTRY
Whenever the “Where?” flow charts (9.4.2), scenario set up, Jihadist 
event, or other instructions yield multiple, equal-priority country 
options on the map, or specify “random” or “randomly”, select 
randomly, as follows:

•	 If there are 6 or fewer options and neither Schengen nor Shia-Mix 
is specified, assign each candidate country a die roll number (or 
equal die-roll range) and roll a die.
•	 If more than 6 options, roll one tan and one black die on the 
“Global” table. If non-Muslim or Muslim is specified, roll the 
tan die until an appropriate column (blue or green, respectively) 
results (reroll a result of “IRAN”, if appropriate). 
•	 If Schengen is specified (such as for extra Posture rolls after a 
Plot in the Schengen area, 8.5.6), roll one die on the “Schengen” 
table (note the table for convenience omits EASTERN EUROPE, 
even though it counts as a Schengen country.)
•	 If Shia-Mix is specified, sum together a roll of three dice on the 
“Shia-Mix” table.
9.5.1 Closest Country
If a Random Country table roll results in an ineligible locale, find 
the closest eligible countries to it (counting by adjacent countries) 
and select among them by die roll (per 9.5, first bullet).
EXAMPLE: The Jihadists are to use two operations to Plot. No cells 
are in the United States, and Abu Sayyaf is not in effect. Prestige is 
High, there are US troops and two cells each in AFGHANISTAN and 
Gulf States, and both countries are at Fair. Because the Jihadist Ac-
tivities “Where?” chart gives both countries an equal priority as the 
locale of the Plot operations, the player designates AFGHANISTAN 
“1-3” and Gulf States “4-6” and rolls a die to determine where the 
two operations occur.
9.6 INDIVIDUAL EVENT INSTRUCTIONS 
•	 Ex-KGB: Target Caucasus if that would shift the World Posture 
marker (4.7.2), otherwise target CENTRAL ASIA.
•	 Leak: Randomly select among Enhanced Measures, Renditions, 
and Wiretapping markers in the Event Box.
•	 Oil Price Spike: Draw from the Discard Pile randomly among the 
highest-value Jihadist-associated event cards. If none is available, 
use Oil Price Spike for operations (only).
PLAY NOTE: Keeping discarded Jihadist-associated 3-cards in a 
separate stack eases implementation of Oil Price Spike.
9.7 JIHADIST IDEOLOGY
The above rules provide a level of play suitable for learning the 
game. Once familiar—or if you prefer to dive straight into a greater 
challenge—take on one of these ascending levels of US difficulty, 
representing the receptivity of Muslims to Jihadism: 
•	 Coherent: Each Plot success places two Available Plot markers 
(modifies 8.5.2).
•	 Attractive: Each Recruit success places two available cells 
(modifies 8.2.1).
•	 Potent: The above, plus just three more cells than troops allows 
Major Jihad (modifies 8.4.2).
•	 Infectious: The above, plus the US must play all its cards 
(modifies 5.2.4).
•	 Virulent: The above, plus failed Jihad rolls do not remove cells 
(modifies 8.4.3).
GLOSSARY AND INDEX
Adjacent: Countries geographically, culturally, or politically 
close enough to permit ready movement between them by any-
one. (4.1.1, 4.5)
Action Phase: Alternating game segment in which a side (typi-
cally) plays two cards. (5.2.2) 
Active: A cell gone operational or flushed from hiding. (4.6.4)
Adversary: An anti-US Muslim country. (4.2.3)
Aid: The gradual effect on governance of outside material and 
advisory assistance. (4.8.3, 7.2.2)
Alert: A US operation that prepares a country’s security forces 
and first responders to thwart or mitigate the effects of an im-
minent terror plot. (7.5)
Alignment: A rough characterization of how closely a country’s 
government is apt to work with the US in the struggle against 
jihadism. (4.2.3)
Ally: A Muslim country actively working with the US in the 
struggle with Islamic extremists. (4.2.3)
Available: A cell for which Jihadist Funding suffices to be Re-
cruitable or a Plot marker (possibly WMD) that is eligible to be 
placed in a country upon a successful Plot roll. (4.7.4.2, 4.7.8)
Besieged Regime: A country weakened by jihad operations. 
(4.8.3, 8.4.3.2)
Block: Prevent play or end the effects of an event via another 
event or a Plot via an Alert. (6.2.8, 7.5.2)
Cadre: A Jihadist network’s vestigial (and embryonic) core. 
(4.8.4)
Cell: The standard Jihadist unit: a small group of operatives 
working covertly. Cells in the game also represent units of 
Jihadist guerrillas. (4.6)
Deploy: A US operation that sends or repositions troops over-
seas. (7.3)
Diplomacy: Gradual global change in perceptions of US policy 
from overall agreement or disagreement over anti-extremist 
tactics. (5.2.5)
Disrupt: A US operation that uncovers, disperses, detains, or 
kills a cell’s operatives. (7.4)
Event: Use of a strategy card for the special happening that it 
depicts instead of for the standard menu of operations. (6.2)
Expenditures: The tendency of Jihadist financial contributions 
to trail off in the absence of successful terrorist plots. (5.2.5)
Funding: A rough characterization of the flow of finances to 
extremists from wealthy donors, radical imams, Jihadist busi-
nesses, and such. (4.7.4.1)
Governance: A rough characterization of the representativeness 
and efficiency of a government as Good, Fair, Poor, or Islamist 
Rule. (4.2.1)
GWOT: Global War on Terror, a US term for the struggle against 
Islamist extremism. (4.7.2)

GWOT Relations: A rough characterization of consensus or split 
between the US and its non-Muslim partners regarding tactics in 
the struggle against extremism. (4.7.2)
Hard: A non-Muslim country’s preference for “hard power”, such 
as military force. (4.3.2)
Ideology: The Jihadists’ system of ideas about how humanity 
should live. In the game, the general appeal of these ideas to 
Muslims. (9.7)
Iran: In the game, a country type unto itself: a Shia-run power 
(in contrast to Shia-Mix). (4.4)
Islamist Rule (IR): Governance by the vision of the Jihadist 
extremists, a historical example being Afghanistan under the 
Taliban. (4.2.1)
Jihad: Struggle or war in the cause of Allah, in the game repre-
senting either guerrilla attacks against or infiltration of a country’s 
government to weaken it (Minor Jihad) or the attempt to replace 
it with Islamist rule (Major Jihad). (8.4)
Lapsing: Event effects lasting a Turn. (6.2.7)
Lingering: Events effects that remain. (6.2.7)
Low Intensity: Deployment of modest numbers of US and allied 
troops overseas, yielding savings that can be used elsewhere in the 
struggle against extremists (in the game, more cards). (4.7.3)
Muslim: Countries with Muslim majorities, either Sunni or Shia-
Mix (in the game, excepting Iran). (4.1.2, 4.2)
Neutral: A Muslim country neither aiding nor opposing the US 
in the fight against Jihadists. (4.2.3)
Non-Muslim: Countries with Muslim minorities only. (4.1.2, 
4.3)
Operations (OPS): Use of the capabilities represented by a card 
(“value”) for one from a menu of activities. (6.3, 7.0, 8.0)
Overstretch: US and allied deployment beyond the maximum 
politically sustainable number of troops in warzones, weakening 
other activities in the struggle with extremists. (4.7.3)
Playable: An event whose preconditions are met and which is 
not Blocked. (6.2.6)
Plot: A Jihadist operation to launch a major terrorist attack in order 
to attract funding, degrade US Prestige, deter aid workers, goad a 
government into overreaction, or shift its Posture. (4.8.1, 8.5)
Posture: A non-Muslim country’s reigning preference for “hard 
power” or “soft power”. (4.3.2)
Prestige: A rough characterization of the standing of US policy 
in the eyes of world and especially Muslim populations and 
leaders. (4.7.1)
Radicalization: In a 1-player game, special Jihadist activity 
with unused operations, representing frustrations on the part of 
individual Muslims turning them to Jihadism. (9.4.3)
Reassessment: A US operation that switches US Posture, rep-
resenting a concerted national dialogue to shift approach in the 
“war on terror”. (7.6)
Recruit: A Jihadist operation to add cells to a country. (8.2)
Recruit Number: A die-roll number printed in a few countries 
and used instead of Governance to determine success at recruit-
ing. (4.3.4, 8.2.4)
Regime Change (RC): A special US Deploy operation that 
changes a country’s Alignment and (typically) Governance by 
military force, making it a “Regime Change country” until its 
Governance becomes Good or Islamist Rule. (7.3.4)
Reserves: An operation to invest effort toward another, near-future 
operation. (6.3.3)
Resources: A rough characterization of the material, human, 
military, cultural, and other assets of a Muslim country. (4.2.5)
Schengen: An area of countries with open borders to one another 
and thus all adjacent in the game. Also, successful Plots in one of 
them may affect the Posture of others. (Some Schengen countries 
in the game joined the area after 2001.) (4.5)
Shia-Mix: A Muslim country (typically) governed by Sunnis but 
with a substantial population of the Shia sect. (The game treats 
Shia-ruled Iran as a distinct type.) (4.1.2)
Sleeper: A cell laying low to avoid disruption. (4.6.4)
Soft: A non-Muslim country’s preference for “soft power”, such 
as diplomacy. (4.3.2)
Sunni: A Muslim country with a large and (typically) ruling 
majority of the Sunni sect. (Syria—a Sunni majority ruled by 
Alawis, a Shia subsect—is an exception; the game treats it as 
Sunni.) (4.1.2)
Test: The procedure used to find an Unmarked country’s Gover-
nance or Posture toward the GWOT. (4.9.4)
Turn: A segment of play in which both sides expend the cards they 
were dealt (though the US side may hold its last card). (5.2)
Travel: A Jihadist operation to relocate a cell to another country 
or lay low within a country. (8.3)
Troops: US or other Western armed forces. (4.6)
Unassociated: An event neither exclusively US nor Jihadist, 
playable by either side. (4.10.4)
Unmarked: In the game, a country whose Governance or Posture 
has not yet been Tested in the struggle with extremism. (4.9.4)
War: US and allied deployment of close to the maximum sustain-
able number of troops overseas to battle extremism. (4.7.3)
War of Ideas (WoI): A US operation aimed through diplomacy, 
public affairs, aid, advisors, and the like to influence Governance, 
Alignment, Posture, or US Prestige. (7.2)
Withdrawal: A special US Deploy operation: precipitate US 
removal of troops from a country in the aftermath of Regime 
Change. (7.3.5)
WMD Plot: A plot involving a weapon of mass destruction (in the 
game, either nuclear fission or biological) able to cause thousands 
of casualties in a single terrorist attack. (4.7.8.1, 8.5.5)
World Posture: The degree to which the non-Muslim world 
favors US exercise of either Hard or Soft power against extrem-
ism. (4.7.2)

GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
Let’s Roll!
(Post-9/11: 2001-?)
It is September 12th, 2001. Al-Qaeda has 
pulled off a devastating “martyrdom opera-
tion” in the United States that it hopes will 
light the fires of Islamist revolution. The 
US—caught off guard—has awaken and is 
about to respond…
•	 Prestige: 7
•	 GWOT: US Hard; World Hard 1
•	 Troops: Low Intensity
•	 Funding: 9
•	 Islamist Rule Resources: 1
•	 Fair/Good Countries: 3
•	 Poor/Islamist Rule Countries: 4
•	 Syria: Fair Adversary
•	 Iraq: Poor Adversary
•	 Saudi Arabia: Poor Ally, 2 Troops
•	 Gulf States: Fair Ally, 2 Troops
•	 Pakistan: Fair Neutral
•	 Afghanistan: Islamist Rule Adversary, 4 
Cells
You Can Call Me Al
(Alternative History)
2001: After months of ballot recounts in 
Florida, Democrats retain the White House. 
US diplomatic machinery is focused on 
global environmentalism and pursuit of US 
“humanitarian interests.” It is September 
12th, and the Towers have fallen…
Set up per 2001 scenario, except:
GWOT: US Soft
Remove Card: Axis of Evil.
Anaconda
(Post-Operation Enduring 
Freedom: 2002-?)
It is early 2002. The United States has carried 
out a swift military operation to remove the 
Taliban regime of Afghanistan and scatter al-
Qaeda. Jihadist losses have been heavy, but 
al-Qaeda’s leadership has escaped…
•	 Prestige: 8
•	 GWOT: US Hard; World ??
•	 Troops: War
•	 Funding: 6
•	 Islamist Rule Resources: 0
•	 Fair/Good Countries: 2
•	 Poor/Islamist Rule Countries: 6
•	 Syria: Fair Adversary
•	 Iraq: Poor Adversary
•	 Saudi Arabia: Poor Ally, 2 Troops
•	 Gulf States: Fair Ally, 2 Troops
•	 Pakistan: Poor Ally, 1 cell, FATA
•	 Afghanistan: Poor Ally, 6 troops, 1 cell, 
Regime Change (tan)
•	 Central Asia: Poor Ally
•	 United States: Patriot Act
•	 Jihadist: Place a cell each in three non-US 
countries, then test any unmarked.
Remove Cards: Patriot Act, Tora Bora.
Mission Accomplished?
(Post-Operation Iraqi Freedom: 
2003-?)
It is mid-2003. The United States has gambled 
on pre-emptive war in Iraq in hopes of forg-
ing democracy in the heart of the Muslim 
world. But US overstretch, European doubts, 
and Iraqi resistance offer the Jihadists an 
opening…
•	 Prestige: 3
•	 GWOT: US Hard; World ??
•	 Troops: Overstretch 
•	 Funding: 5
•	 Islamist Rule Resources: 0
•	 Fair/Good Countries: 5
•	 Poor/Islamist Rule Countries: 4
•	 Event Box: Enhanced Measures, Renditions, 
Wiretapping
•	 Syria: Fair Adversary, 1 cell
•	 Iraq: Poor Ally, 6 troops, 3 cells, Regime 
Change (tan)
•	 Iran: 1 cell
•	 Saudi Arabia: Poor Ally, 1 cell
•	 Gulf States: Fair Ally, 2 troops
•	 Pakistan: Fair Ally, 1 cell, FATA
•	 Afghanistan: Poor Ally, 5 troops, 1 cell, 
Regime Change (tan)
•	 Central Asia: Fair Neutral
•	 Indonesia/Malaysia: Fair Neutral, 1 cell
•	 Philippines: Soft, 2 troops, 1 cell, Abu 
Sayyaf
•	 United Kingdom: Hard
•	 United States: Patriot Act, NEST
•	 Jihadist: Roll Posture for each Schengen 
country, then, if a 2-player game, reroll 1 
of them.
Remove Cards: Patriot Act, Tora Bora, 
NEST, Abu Sayyaf, KSM, Iraqi WMD.
NOTE: This scenario can be more challeng-
ing for the US side and with 2 players is best 
for 2- or 3-deck play.
SCENARIOS
Note: All cells set up as Sleepers.