A game by Matthias Cramer for 2 - 5 players aged 12 years and up
The players want to proceed from simply being a Lord 
to the most powerful ally of the king. They may achieve 
this by developing their own knighthood as well as by 
clever deployment of individual knights in the counties 
of England, at their own castle and to conflicts with 
France. In parliament, they try to push laws from which 
they will benefit themselves most. The player with the 
most power points at the end of the game is the winner.
In the year of 1413 - the new King of England, Henry V of 
Lancaster, pursues ambitious plans: the unification of Eng-
land and the conquest of the French Crown!
Each player is the leader of their own aspiring noble family. 
Who will become a true supporter of the young King and 
thus the most powerful Lord of their time?
Object of the game

 Sequence of play
Randomly determine a start player, give them the start 
player marker. The players take their turns in clockwise 
direction.
The game is played over five game rounds. 
Each round consists of 3 Phases:
 1: Place knights
 2: Parliament
 3: Rewards
 Phase 1: Place knights
The active player takes one of their own knights from 
their court and places him on a knight’s space. Then, 
the next player does likewise, etc., until the players have 
placed all their knights. If a player has no more knights 
at their court, their turn is skipped. If only one player 
remains with knights at their court, they place them 
successively one after another.
There are possible 3 locations for placing knights:
• County
• Castle
• Conflict
County
In counties, a knight can be placed on an empty or an 
occupied space. In both cases, the knight himself must 
match or exceed the demanded minimum strength.
Additionally, the player may place as many squires as 
they wish along with their knight.
Each squire adds 1 strength point, which does not count 
against the demanded minimum strength.
In case the space is occupied by another player’s knight, 
that knight can be expelled if the strength of the active 
player’s knight or the combined strength of the knight 
and his squires exceeds the former occupant’s strength. 
A player can never expel their own knight. 
The expelled knight goes back to the court of his owner 
and is placed again on the board in turn order; put any 
accompanying squires back to the general supply.
Please note: There are special rules for a 2-player-game, please see page 7. 
Please note: A knight and his squires must be placed at the same 
time, later reinforcements are not allowed.
Please note: The knights gain various kinds of rewards for their 
players, either immediately or later during phase 3.
Knight’s spaces in Castle
Noble-
man tile
Minimum strength
Example: Empty knight’s 
Blue places a knight with 
strength 2 at Stafford.
Example: Occupied knight’s 
The blue knight (2) is 
expelled by Yellow’s knight 
with strength 1, supported 
by two squires (3:2). Blue 
takes his knight back to 
his court.
Knight’s space in County
Knight’s spaces in Conflict

Castle
The player places their knight on an empty knight’s 
space in their own castle. Each space can hold only one 
knight.
Conflict
A player may engage in as many conflicts as they wish. 
The player selects a conflict and places their knight on 
the topmost empty knight’s space. Each player may oc-
cupy only one of the three spaces of each single conflict. 
A player already engaged in a certain conflict may rein-
force their strength by stacking their knights.
Immediate reward:
The first 6 knights earn the “king’s favor” for their 
players. The player selects one favor tile from the open 
display and receives the shown reward. Next, reverse 
the tile; it cannot be selected during this round again.
Please see the extra sheet for a detailed summary of 
rewards.
 Phase 2: Parliament
After the last knight has been placed, the English Parlia-
ment is gathering. The players must vote on the 3 new 
laws, one after the other. They begin with the law of 
space 1, bottom row left.
Voting procedure
All players vote simultaneously and secretly. They 
decide for or against the law and place the appropriate 
voting tile face down in front of themselves.
Next, all players may enforce their decision secretly by 
using as many voting markers as they like.
After all players have taken their enforcements in their 
hand, they simultaneously put the markers on the table 
and reveal their voting tiles.
Voting result
The players now tally all votes for and against the law. 
Each voting tile and each voting marker counts as 1 vote.
The majority wins. In case of a draw, the law is appro-
ved.
Put all used voting markers back to the general supply.
Please note: Knights may be stacked upon each other only at a 
conflict. No squires are used in a conflict
Voting tile: Yes, I approve 
the new law.
Voting tile: No, I reject 
the new law. 
Current laws
Draw pile
Laws to be voted on
1st	 	
 2nd	
 3rd 
Vote
Example:
Green places a knight with strength 
1. He must place him on the empty 
space below the blue knight. Then, 
he chooses a favor tile and receives 
the reward immediately, a nobleman 
tile in this case. 
If Green wants to reinforce his knight 
later, he stacks the new knight on top 
of his existing one. Neither blue nor 
green knights may be placed on the 
lowest space.
Extension tile
Knight’s 
There are spaces for 3 knights on each conflict card.

The new law is approved
Remove the former law (top left, upper row) from the 
Parliament display. Then, slide both other laws one 
position from left to right and place the new law on the 
empty space to the right.
The new law is rejected
Remove the rejected law from the game and leave the 
former laws unchanged.
Use the same procedure for voting on the 2nd and 3rd new law.
Players still holding voting markers after the completion 
of all three votes return them to the general supply.
Implementation of the 3 applicable laws
After all voting has been done, there are always three 
applicable laws. They are applied from left to right and 
the players gain rewards.
Please see page 8 for a 
detailed summary of laws.
Precondition for 
a reward
The reward
The voting result is 3:3. That is sufficient for the new law to be 
approved. The former law, top left, is removed from the game. 
The new law is placed on the rightmost space.
The voting result is 2:3. The new law is rejected and removed 
from the game.
 Phase 3: Rewards
Counties, castles and conflicts are evaluated in this order.
Counties
All 9 counties yield their rewards from A to I, in this 
order. The concerned player always must choose one of 
three options:
• Take one nobleman tile from that county.
• Take the other shown reward of that county. 
• Pay 3 gold (into the general supply) and take both – 
first the nobleman tile, then the other reward shown.
After the player has collected their reward, they take 
their knight back to their court. If the knight was sup-
ported by squires, put them back to the general supply.
Special in Surrey (I): Determine the start player
In Surrey, the player additionally determines the start 
player, besides collecting their reward. They may deter-
mine any player, including themselves. The start player 
takes the start player marker (or retains it) and the new 
(or former) player order is effective immediately. If no 
knight was placed in Surrey, the current start player 
retains the marker.
Please see extra sheet for a detailed summary of rewards.
Example: Yellow scores Stafford and pays 3 gold in order to receive 
both rewards.
1. She places the nobleman tile on the first empty seat at her company 
at table.
2. She upgrades one of her knights, who is not part of her reserve, by 
one level of strength.
Example: Red scores Surrey and assigns the new start player. As his 
reward, he chooses 2 squires and 2 gold.
Squires go back to the 
general supply.
The knight goes back to his court. 

Castles
First, the start player scores their complete castle, follo-
wed by the other players in clockwise direction.
Each player receives the shown rewards for
• Knights placed in their castle
• Existing extensions
• Company at table
The player decides about the order to evaluate their 
knights and extensions any way they like.
After scoring a knight, the player takes the knight back 
to their court, scored extension tiles remain at the castle.
Next, the player scores their company at table. For each 
present nobleman, including themselves, the player 
receives 1 voting marker. Voting markers are placed 
on the player’s castle tableau visible for all players. The 
players do not receive voting markers in the fifth, final 
game round.
Conflicts
Finally, the conflicts in France are resolved one after the 
other and the players gain power points.
Resolving a conflict is done in 2 steps:
1. Winner of conflict: England or France
Add the strength of all knights involved in this conflict. 
If their combined strength is equal to or exceeds the 
strength of France, the winner is England. If their com-
bined strength is less than the strength of France, the 
winner is France.
2. Each player’s contribution: Determine a player ranking 
by totaling the strength of each player’s knights invol-
ved in this conflict. In case of a draw, that player who 
entered the conflict later ranks higher, i. e. the player 
whose knights are at a lower position of the 3 knight’s 
spaces.
Assigning power points:
• England wins the conflict: The three power point 
scores are awarded to the players. The highest-ranking 
player receives the highest score, the second highest-
ranking player receives the next score and the lowest 
ranking player receives the lowest score. Remove the 
conflict card and the players take their knights back to 
their courts.
Please note: If there are any conflict cards in the lower row these 
should be scored first, followed by the conflict cards in the upper row. 
Please note: If no player occupies rank 2 or 3, nobody gains the 
corresponding power points.
Blue: Knight with strength 2
Green: Knight with strength 1
Red: Knight with strength 2
Conflict card
Power points for 
rank 1, 2 & 3
Strength of France
Front
Back
Example:
Blue scores a knight and an extension tile in his castle:
He recruits two squires for his knight.
He recruits a new knight with strength 1 because of his extension 
tile, but must return 3 squires to the general supply. 
Example: Blue scores the company of table, which earns him 5 vo-
ting markers: 4 for the nobleman tiles, 1 for the Lord of the Castle 
(himself). 
Example 1:
The winner of this conflict is England (5:5).
The raking of the involved players is as follows:
Rank 1: Red, total strength 2
Rank 2: Blue, total strength 2
Rank 3: Green, total strength 1
Red gains 4 power points, Blue gains 2 and Green gains 1 power 
point. 
} Red ranks first, because he 
entered the conflict later. 
Please note: The nobleman tiles are worth additional power 
points during final scoring.
Extensi-
on tile
Knight

 End of the game and final scoring
• France wins the conflict: Even if France wins the con-
flict, the players score power points. The highest score 
is not awarded; the second score is awarded for rank 1 
and the lowest score for rank 2. All knights remain on 
their spaces. 
This conflict lingers on and there will be a second 
battle. Move the conflict card and the associated 
knights down to the lower row, without changing the 
order of the knights.
• England wins the second battle: 
The same rules apply as for the first battle.
• France wins the second battle: 
Again, power points are awarded as for the first battle, 
but the involved knights are being captured. The 
players may ransom their knights by paying 1 gold per 
strength level; this is done in given player order. If a 
player pays for their knights, they return home to their 
court, otherwise they are placed on the corresponding 
reserve area of the game board. Remove the conflict 
card from the game.
Please note: If no knights were deployed to a conflict, this conflict 
is lost for England and the card is moved down to the lower row.
Please note: Knights in the reserve area do not belong to the 
knighthood.
Parliament:
Reveal 3 new laws from the top of the draw pile, one after 
the other, and place them on the 3 spaces for new laws, 
from left to right.
A final scoring takes place after the fifth game round. 
Power points are awarded as follows:
• 8 power points for the player with the highest strength 
total of their knighthood. The runner-up gains 4 power 
points. In case of a draw the player with more squires 
wins the power points.
• 8 power points for the player with the most extension 
tiles in their castle. The runner-up gains 4 power points. 
In case of a draw the player with more gold wins the 
power points.
• Power points are awarded to all players with more than 
1 nobleman tile attending their company of table.
The game ends now. The player with the most power 
points is the winner of the game.
In case of a draw, the concerned players share the victory.
Preparing the next game round:
Prepare the next game round after scoring of all conflicts is complete.
Conflict:
Reveal two new conflict cards and place them in the 
upper row. All face down tiles “king’s favor” are flipped 
face open.
Noblemen
Power points
Example 2:
The winner of this conflict is France (3:5). No player gains 4 power 
points. The raking of the involved players is as follows:
Rank 1: Blue, total strength 2 = 2 power points
Rank 2: Green, total strength 1 = 1 power point
All knights continue their engagement in this conflict and a second 
battle will follow.
Blue: Knight with strength 2
Green: Knight with strength 1
Hint: If a there is still a draw for the first position after considering 
the number of squires, divide the 12 power points (8 + 4) by the 
number of tied players and award them accordingly.
If 1 player holds the first position and several players tie for second 
position, divide the 4 power points by the number of tied players 
and award them accordingly. Any indivisible points are lost. 

 Rules for a 2-player-game
Both players have an ally. The allies have a small castle 
of their own, which cannot be extended. Each pla-
yer takes the decisions for their ally and places their 
They do not receive power points, voting markers, 
gold, or squires. Special rules concerning other rewards 
are explained below. The players may not use their gold 
or their squires for their ally’s knights. 
Setup
Leave the screens in the box, they are not used. A 
player’s gold and squires are visible for their opponent. 
Place 2 nobleman tiles in each county.
Each player selects the color of their ally and receives 
additionally:
• 2 ally boards (1 x front “castle”/ 1 x back court)
• 7 knights of their ally. Place 1 knight with strength 2 at 
the court, the 6 remaining knights go to the reserve.
 
Spielablauf
 Phase 1: Place knights
The active player places either one of their own knights 
or one of their ally’s knight.
The players may deploy their ally’s knights to all counties, all 
conflicts and to the ally’s own castle.
County: The ally’s knights cannot be supported by 
squires. A player may not expel any knights of their 
own or of their ally.
Castle: A player may not place their own knights in the 
castle of their ally and vice versa.
Use the rules for 4 players, with following amendments:
Conflict: A player may place their own knights and those 
of their ally on the same conflict card, but they may not 
share the same knight’s space.
If an ally gains the king’s favor, the reward is handled as 
follows:
• Gold/squires: The reward is obsolete.
• Upgrade: Upgrade the level of one ally’s knight by 1.
• Nobleman tile: Any nobleman tile of the player’s choice 
is removed from the game. 
 Phase 2: Parliament
Allies are not allowed to vote. Regarding the laws, 
the ally’s knights are not considered the player’s own 
knights. Allies do not receive any rewards from laws.
 Phase 3: Rewards
County: An ally may make use of the following rewards:
• A new knight with strength 1 for themselves
• Upgrade one of their own knights
• Nobleman tile – remove from the game
• Passage to France
Any other rewards are obsolete.
Special Surrey: If an ally is placed in Surrey, the allied pla-
yer determines the start player.
The ally’s castle: No squires must be expended for new 
knights and upgrades.
Conflict: When checking the contribution of each player, 
the allies are considered players of their own. Accor-
ding to their strength, each player and ally has their 
own rank. Forfeit any power points for an ally. An ally’s 
captured knights cannot be ransomed, place them in the 
reserve.
End of the game for 2 players
The allies are not considered during the final scoring.
Only the 8 power points for the first position are award­
ed when evaluating the strength of the knighthood and 
the amount of extensions. 
© Copyright 2011 Queen Games, D-53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved. 
Example: Blue has selected Yellow as his ally.
The ally’s castle:
• A new knight with 
strength 1 
• Upgrade of a knight’s 
level
The ally’s court:

 Summary of laws
The player employing the 
most squires recruits a new 
knight with strength 1 from 
the reserve for their own 
supply. In case of a tie, all 
tied players are granted this 
reward.
The player owning the 
most gold may upgrade 
one of their own deployed 
knights. In case of a tie, 
all tied players are granted 
this reward.
All players gain 3 
power points for every 
2 counties occupied by 
their own knight.
Players may buy 1 voting marker for 1 gold each. 
In player order and beginning with the start player, 
each player decides how many voting markers they 
want to buy.
Players may take 1 extension tile and place it at 
their castle for every 2 conflicts they are involved in 
with their own knights.
Players receive 1 squire, 1 voting marker, and 1 
gold from the general supply for every 2 conflicts 
to which they have deployed at least 1 of their own 
Players may expend 1 squire and 1 gold for 3 power 
points each. In player order, beginning with the 
start player, each player decides how many gold/
squires they want to expend.
Players recruit 1 squire from the general supply for 
each of their own deployed knights with strength 2.
Players gain 5 power points for every 3 extension 
tiles in their castle.
All players who have deployed their knight with 
strength 3 may swap him against their knight with 
strength 4, if still available from the reserve.
Players who have no deployed knight with strength 
2 may upgrade 1 of their knights.
Players gain 8 power points for every 3 counties in 
which they have deployed at least 1 of their own 
Players gain 3 power points for each conflict to 
which they have deployed at least 1 of their own 
Players recruit 1 new knight from the reserve to 
their court for every 3 nobleman tiles at their 
company at table.
Players who currently have deployed all their 3 
knights with strength 1 gain 5 power points.
Players may buy 1 power 
point for 1 gold each. In pla-
yer order and beginning with 
the start player, each player 
decides how many power 
points they want to buy.
Players may expend 1 squire 
for 1 power point each. In 
player order, beginning with 
the start player, each player 
decides how many squires they 
want to expend.
Players who currently 
have deployed knights 
of all four strength 
levels gain 6 power 
points.