GAME IDEA
The players play as risk-taking gamblers trying their luck in the 
glitzy world of Las Vegas.
Six casinos can be visited, each of them showing a diﬀ erent number 
and each with a diﬀ erent amount of money available to be won 
overall. Round after round the same questions are asked: Where 
should I place most of my dice in order to gain a majority there? 
Where will my opponents be placing their dice? And where can I 
maybe grab a tidy sum from a competitor and roll it into my own 
pockets? 
But be careful, that kind of battle over the biggest bucks has gone 
bad more than once – leaving someone else laughing at the end!
The winner is the player with the most money after four 
rounds.
GAME COMPONENTS
 40 dice (8 in each player colour)
 6 casinos (with die values 1-6)
 54 banknotes (5 each of $60,000, $70,000, 
 $80,000 and $90,000; 6 each of $10,000, 
 $40,000 and $50,000; 8 each of $20,000 
 and $30,000)
 1 start player card 
Before playing for the ﬁ rst time, carefully remove the 
six casinos from their cardboard frames.
Rüdiger Dorn
 
Gamble Up To The Last Roll!
If you are reading these rules for the ﬁ rst time, ignore the text in the sidebars. They serve as a short 
summary of the rules to make it easy to quickly refresh your memory and get back into the game.
GAME IDEA
Players play as gamblers 
trying their luck in Las Vegas
Round after round, they place 
their dice onto the casinos in 
order to have the most lying 
there 
The player with the most 
money is the winner

Golden Nugget
Caesar´s Palace
The Mirage
Sahara
Luxor
Circus Circus
?
?
 GAME SETUP 
Place the 6 casinos next to each other in the middle of the table in 
die value order (see ﬁ gure).
Shuﬄ e the 54 banknotes and place them in a face-down pile next 
to the casinos. Afterwards, place banknotes above the casinos. Keep 
adding banknotes to a casino until the total value is at least $50,000. 
Should multiple banknotes have been added to a casino, then 
arrange the notes such that all of their values are visible (see ﬁ gure).
Give each player the 8 dice in the 
colour of his choice.
Give the oldest player 
the start player card.
GAMEPLAY
The game is played out over four rounds, each of which is made up of 
each player getting around four or ﬁ ve dice rolling turns. 
The oldest player begins (start player card), after which play 
continues in clockwise direction. 
On your turn, roll all of the dice you have left (all 8 to start the round, 
fewer and fewer as the round goes on). Then, you must choose 
exactly one of the numbers rolled and add all of those dice to the 
matching-numbered casino. It doesn’t matter if you or another player 
has already added dice to the casino or not. 
It is then the next player’s turn to roll and place, etc. until all players 
have placed all of their dice. 
 Example: Benno rolls (midway through a round) four 3s and a 5. He chooses the 
 four 3s and adds all of them to the „Mirage“ casino (he could not have chosen to 
 add only one, two or three of the 3s!). 
 On his next turn, Benno will simply roll and then add his last die to the 
 appropriate casino. 
GAME SETUP 
• Lay out casinos
• Shuﬄ e banknotes, then add 
min. $50,000 to each casino
• Give each player 8 dice of 
one colour
GAMEPLAY
On your turn, roll all of 
your dice – and then add all 
dice of one number to the 
corresponding casino 

If you are out of dice, then you pass for the rest of the round. (So it 
is possible that only one player has any dice left and thus gets to take 
multiple turns in a row toward the end of a round.)
Once the last player has added his ﬁ nal dice to a casino, then the 
casinos pay out:
First, check each casino to see if two or more players have the same 
number of dice there. Wherever this is the case, each of the aﬀ ected 
players return all of their aﬀ ected dice back to their supplies.
 Example 1: Anna added 5 dice to the “Caesars Palace“ casino; Benno and Carla 
 added 3 each and Denny added 1. Benno and Carla both take their 3 dice back.
 Example 2: Anna and Carla both added 2 dice to the “Golden Nugget“ casino 
 while Benno and Denny each added 1: All players take their dice back.
Afterward it is time to distribute the banknotes from the ﬁ rst casino. 
The player who added the most dice to the casino takes all of his dice 
back from this casino (returning them to his supply) and receives 
the highest-value banknote from it. Any remaining banknotes are 
distributed to the remaining players in order of descending number 
of dice. Should there not be enough banknotes for everyone, then 
the remaining players miss out. They take their dice back and receive 
nothing. 
Should there be any banknotes left on the casino after distribution, 
then take the leftover notes and place them, face down, beneath the 
pile. 
Pay out the other ﬁ ve casinos in the same manner. Any money that 
players have won gets placed in front of them, face down.
 Example 1: Anna receives the $80,000 note and Denny the $30,000 note. 
 The $10,000 note is returned to the bottom of the pile.
 Example 2: Benno receives one of the $40,000 notes. The other is returned to 
 the bottom of the pile.
 Example 3: Carla receives the $70,000 note and Benno the $20,000 note. 
 Denny gets nothing.
The Next Round
Resupply the six casinos with banknotes so that they once again have 
at least $50,000 on them (see game setup). 
The player to the left of the previous start player receives the start 
Players who have run out of 
dice pass on their turns
Important!
Players with equal numbers of 
dice in a casino get nothing!
The player with the most dice 
receives the highest-value 
banknote, etc.
Resupply each casino with 
at least $50,000 for the next 
round

player card and starts the next round ...
GAME END
The game ends after four rounds and the players count their money. 
The player with the most is the winner. In the event of a tie, then the 
winner is the player with the most banknotes. If there is still a tie 
then there are multiple winners.
Variant (2 to 4 players)
All previous rules are in eﬀ ect with the following exceptions:
At the start of each round, players receive, in addition to the 8 dice 
in their colour, additional dice in a neutral, unused, colour 
(we recommend white): 
- with 2 players, each player receives 4 white dice (= 12 total)
- with 3 or 4 players each player receives 2 white dice (= 10 total) 
(In a three player game, the two leftover white dice get rolled by 
the start player at the start of the round and placed accordingly.)
On your turn, you must roll your neutral dice along with those of your 
own colour and then place them just as you would your own. 
 Example: Carla rolls two 1s of her own colour as well as one white 1; she also 
 rolls a 5 of her own and a neutral 6. She can now choose to place either all three 
 1s, her own 5, or the neutral 6. 
At the end of a round, the neutral dice are scored as if they belonged 
to an additional (imaginary) player. Any money that this ‚player‘ wins 
gets added to the bottom of the pile.
 Example 1: The $80,000 note goes to white (and is thus added to the bottom of 
 the pile); Benno receives the $30,000 note.
 Example 2: Carla receives the $70,000 note and white receives the $40,000 note 
 (added to the bottom of the pile); Anna receives nothing.
For questions, comments or criticicms please call or write us at:
alea
Postfach 1150 
83233 Bernau, Germany
Fon: 08051 - 970720 | Fax: 08051 - 970722
E-Mail: info@aleaspiele.de | www.aleaspiele.de
Pass start player card to the 
left
GAME END
The game is over after four 
rounds
The player with the most 
money is the winner
VARIANT 
Each player receives 
additional neutral dice:
4 (with 2 players) or 
2 (with 3 or 4 players) 
Place neutral dice as you 
would place your own dice
© 2011 Rüdiger Dorn
© 2012 Ravensburger Spieleverlag
230512