A strategy game for 2 players by
Emanuel Lasker
INTRODUCTION
World Chess Champion Emanuel Lasker developed
Laska (a.k.a. Lasca), a variant of the Checkers
Family, in 1911. The game board and play resembles
that of Checkers, but captured pieces remain on the
board and can possibly be freed later in the game.
MATERIAL
- board (7x7)
- 11 white discs with a spot on one side (soldiers)
- 11 black discs with a spot on one side (soldiers)
- carrying case
SETUP
Each player starts the game on the 7x7 board with
eleven soldiers as show in the image (with the spots
not showing):
Play takes place only on alternating squares, so that
only 25 of the 49 squares are actually used. The
nestorgames edition shows only the usable spaces,
for clarity.
HOW TO PLAY
White starts. On a turn, a player moves one soldier or
stack of soldiers she controls (topmost soldier is of her
colour) diagonally forward one space. Stacks cannot
be split as a result of a move.
If a capture is available (by jumping over, as in
checkers), then the player must make that capture,
trapping the captured piece (just the topmost one, in
case of a stack) underneath the capturing one; if the
newly captured piece had previously had one or more
pieces underneath it, then those pieces are now free
to move in future turns.
 
Example: the black soldier captures the white soldier
by jumping over it and trapping it underneath.
 
Example: a stack owned by Black jumps over a stack
owned by White, capturing its topmost soldier and
liberating a black soldier.
If a soldier or stack reaches the opponent's back row,
it's topmost piece is flipped and promoted to an officer
(spot visible). Officers (and stacks with officers on top)
can move one space diagonally in all directions and
make several captures on the same turn, but not
jumping over the same space more than once.
Remember that captures are compulsory.
The game continues until either a player can't move or
a player has no pieces remaining on the board. In
both cases, this player loses the game.
Art and rulebook © Néstor Romeral Andrés 2018