Règles du jeu
A crime was just committed! 
The victim is unable to 
speak. But they can draw… 
and help the Inspectors 
guess who, in the vast crowd, 
is the culprit! Be careful: 
this shifty character will 
do anything and everything 
to cover their tracks. Will 
you be able to stop them 
before the last message?
The Victim has 4 rounds to help the Detectives 
determine the identity of the Criminal based 
on their clues. If they find the Criminal, the 
Detectives and the Victim win the game. But it 
won’t be easy, since the Criminal can erase part 
of their drawings!
If the Criminal is not identified 
by the end of the 4th round, the 
Criminal wins the game.
If the Detectives find the Criminal too easily, 
you can complicate their investigations a bit 
by adding these obstacles in order:
Level 1: The Victim can no longer use text for 
clues. Only drawings are allowed.
Level 2: The Criminal erases one additional 
space per round.
Level 3: Find the Weapon – The Criminal 
chooses an object instead of a character!
TOO EASY?
1 screen
4 erasable boards 
2 dry erase markers
1 transparent 
token
1 sand timer
12 double-sided sheets 
representing 6 crime scenes
3 folded sheets 
representing 
6 crime scenes
D I A M O N D
2- The Criminal covers their tracks
The Criminal takes the board from the Victim and erases a number of spaces (anywhere on the 
board), according to the current round: 
• 1st round: the Criminal erases 5 spaces.
• 2nd round: the Criminal erases 4 spaces.
• 3rd round: the Criminal erases 3 spaces.
• 4th round: the Criminal erases 2 spaces.
The Criminal has covered their tracks. 
In the 2nd round of the game, they can erase up to 4 spaces on the clue board.
Continue to 3- The Detectives choose a suspect.
3- The Detectives choose a suspect 
The Criminal now gives the partially-erased board to the Detectives. They add this board to any 
boards they received in previous rounds, then look at them closely. The Victim must also be able 
to see the boards given to the Detectives, so they know which clues remain and can prepare for 
the next round.
Working together, the Detectives choose one—and only one—character in the illustration 
that they suspect the Criminal has chosen. 
The Criminal confirms whether or not the Detectives have identified the correct character, 
but does not provide any other information.
In the 3rd round, the Detectives have 3 clue boards. 
Will they finally be able to find the right culprit?
If the Detectives did not identify the Criminal, begin a new round, starting with 1- The Victim 
leaves clues and a new board. After completing the 4th round or when the Detectives find 
the Criminal, continue to the End of the Game.
END OF THE GAME
• If the Detectives find the Criminal (at the end 
of any round), they and the Victim win.
• If the Detectives choose the wrong character 
during the 4th and final round, the Criminal 
wins the game. 
CREDITS
Designers: Juhwa Lee and Giung Kim 
Illustrators: Stéphane Escapa, 
Vincent Dutrait, Gus Morais and Nathan Hackett	
Project Manager: Florent Baudry 	
Editor: Xavier Taverne
Proofing: William Niebling and Stephan Brissaud 
Translation: Danni Loe
Graphic Designer: Cindy Roth
Game Agency: Forgenext
OVERVIEW AND GOAL
A GAME BY JUHWA LEE 
& GIUNG KIM
CONTENTS
LAST MESSAGE © 2021 IELLO. IELLO, LAST MESSAGE, and their logos are 
trademarks of IELLO USA LLC under permission from SARL IELLO. 
All rights reserved.
Contact for North America: IELLO USA LLC, 81 David Love Pl. Suite 107, 
Santa Barbara, CA 93117 USA. Phone: 702-818-1789. info@iellogames.com.
Contact for Europe: IELLO - 9 avenue des Érables - Lot 341 
54180 Heillecourt France. www.iello.com
UK Importer: Coiledspring Games Ltd.Unit 3, Hampton Hill Business Park
Hampton Hill, TW12 1NP, United Kingdom
Made in Jiaxing, China by Whatz Games 
Jeu en anglais. Importé au Canada par IELLO USA LLC.
www.iellousa.com
Follow us on 

There are 6 different crime 
scenes. For each one, there is an 
illustration folded in half for the 
Victim and Criminal to share and 
the same illustration divided into 
4 sheets for the Detectives. 
CRIME SCENES
The Victim should draw and/or 
write on as many different spaces 
of the board as possible, 
even placing elements across 
multiple spaces.
DWARF
GAMEPLAY
Last Message plays over 4 rounds. Each round has 3 steps:
1 - The Victim leaves clues.
2 - The Criminal covers their tracks.
3 - The Detectives choose a suspect.
1 - The Victim leaves clues
The Victim looks closely at the crime scene illustration and the elements around the character 
the Criminal chose. Then, the Criminal flips over the sand timer. The Victim has 30 seconds to 
draw clues on one of the boards (without going outside of the 9 squares) which will help the 
Detectives find the Criminal in the crowd.
• Clues can be text and/or drawings.
• The Victim cannot draw or write the same element of the crime scene multiple times 
in different spaces. But they can draw and write the same element. They can also 
redraw or rewrite the same element during a future round. 
Example: The Victim cannot draw the same chimney multiple times, but if there 
are multiple chimneys in the same area of the scene, they can draw each of these 
chimneys once.
When time runs out, the Criminal tells the Victim to stop.
In 30 seconds, the Victim was able to add a wide variety of clues about the Criminal’s identity.
Continue to 2- The Criminal covers their tracks.
SETUP
Choose one player to be the Victim 
and another to be the Criminal. 
Both of them sit on the same side of the table, 
behind the screen. 
All the other players are Detectives and 
sit on the other side of the table.
The Criminal takes the sand 
timer and the other 
marker, and gets 
ready to foil the 
investigation!
The Criminal puts the illustration for the chosen crime scene 
in front of both themself and the Victim (so that the Detectives 
cannot see it). They then choose any character and place the 
transparent token on top of it. This character represents the 
Criminal that the Detectives need to identify with the Victim’s help.
Choose 1 of the 6 crime scenes in the box and put 
all 4 of the sheets that make up that illustration 
in front of the Detectives.
ADVICE
The Victim takes the 4 erasable 
boards and one of the markers.