When night begins to fall on the sleepy, rural 
town of Woodinvale, the shadows and fog rolling 
in bring with them more than just a chill shiver. 
A living nightmare erupts as the once peaceful 
community is overrun with the restless dead...
scratching and clawing their way to the surface 
with an insatiable hunger for human flesh. Now 
only a handful of unlikely Heroes are left, banding 
together to fight for their very lives. On a night 
that never ends, the only thing worse than death... 
is becoming infected.
Game Overview
Last Night on Earth, The Zombie Game is a 
fast-paced game of brain-eating Zombies, small 
town Heroes, and horror movie action. Players 
take on the role of either the Heroes or Zombies. 
To survive, Hero players must use their cunning 
and ingenuity (as well as a bit of luck) to make it 
through the night. Only by working together can 
the Heroes hope to fend off the hordes of Zombies 
and find some way to stop them or escape.
While some players fight for survival, others 
have already fallen to the rotting plague and now 
hunger to feed their hatred of the living. As a 
Zombie player, you get control of the unending 
waves of Zombies spreading over the town like a 
sickness. You also have the ability to sow dissent 
amongst the Heroes as fear and primal instinct for 
self preservation take over. Heroes that fall will 
often rise again to join your Zombie ranks and 
terrorize their former friends.
With a cast of horror movie archetype Heroes 
and hordes of blood-thirsty Zombies, each Scenario 
is designed to play out like the plot of a movie; 
desperate Heroes racing against time to accomplish 
their goals... sometimes it’s as simple as just trying 
to live through the night.
So put down that popcorn, grab your shotgun, 
and hide your brain; the Zombies are coming and 
this could be your Last Night on Earth.
Gameplay Breakdown
Each Game Round is split into two Turns, the 
Zombie Turn and the Hero Turn. During the 
Zombie Turn, the Zombie player(s) get to move 
and attack with their Zombies as well as possibly 
spawn new Zombies. During the Hero Turn, each 
Hero gets to take a Move Action (move, or Search 
if in a building) and attack, in any order they 
wish. The game ends when either the objectives of 
the Scenario are completed or when the Sun Track 
Marker reaches the end of the track.
Mature Themes
Last Night on Earth, The Zombie Game 
contains graphic horror-movie imagery and some 
mild adult themes (though it is most often presented 
in a tongue-in-cheek fashion). For this reason, 
the game is aimed at an audience aged 12 to 100 
(sorry, if you’re over 100 you’re probably already a 
Zombie; in which case you would certainly have an 
unfair advantage). You have been warned!
Game Contents
1 Full Color Rulebook
1 Town Center Game Board
6 L-Shaped Outer Boards
8 Unique Hero Figures (Grey)
14 Zombie Figures (7 Green, 7 Brown)
40 Card Hero Deck (Basic Game)
40 Card Zombie Deck (Basic Game)
20 Advanced Cards for the Hero Deck 
20 Advanced Cards for the Zombie Deck
6 Reference Cards
8 Large Hero Character Sheets
5 Large Scenario Cards
2 Full Color sheets of Die-Cut Counters
16 Dice
1 CD Soundtrack of Original Music
By 
LAST NIGHT ON EARTH
The Zombie Game

Players
Last Night on Earth, The Zombie Game can 
be played by 2-6 players (there are always at least 
1 Hero Player and 1 Zombie Player). The total 
number of players determines how many will play 
as Heroes and how many will play as Zombies. 
Consult the chart below.
Wound Markers
Several red Wound Markers are 
included to keep track of damage 
that characters take during the game. 
These markers are placed on the Hero 
Character Sheets to show when they 
have been wounded.
Sun Track Marker
The Sun Track Marker is placed 
on the Sun Track at the start of the 
game and moved down the track one 
space each turn to keep count of how 
many turns have been played (and how 
many turns are left).
New Spawning Pit
Occasionally the Zombies will 
gain additional Spawning Pits which 
are used to bring new Zombies onto 
the board. This is usually caused by a 
card effect. 
Taken Over
Sometimes a build-
ing will be overrun with 
Zombies to the point 
that the Heroes can’t 
enter it anymore. This 
is usually caused by a 
card effect. When this 
happens, a Taken Over 
Marker is placed on the 
building.
Lights Out
When the Zombies 
cut the power (usually by 
tripping over something or 
chewing through the lines), 
you know you’re in trou-
ble. Lights Out Markers 
are placed on buildings to 
indicate this as directed by 
certain card effects. 
Note that there are always 4 Hero Characters, 
regardless of how many players are playing as the 
Heroes.
1 Hero player with all four 
Heroes
2 Hero players with two 
Heroes each
2 Players
3 Players
4 Players
5 Players
6 Players
2 Zombie players 
2 Hero players with two 
Heroes each
4 Hero players with one Hero 
each
2 Zombie players 
4 Hero players with one Hero 
each
Game Components
Dice
The game comes with 16 standard six-sided dice 
that should be divided amongst the players. Often 
cards will refer to the terms D6 and D3. D6 is just 
another name for a six-sided die. D3 means to roll a 
six-sided die and consult the following chart:
D6	Roll	
Result
 1 – 2 	
 3 – 4	
 5 – 6	

Gas Marker (Advanced Game Only)
Gas Markers are only used in the 
Advanced Game and are covered in more 
depth later.
Old Betsy (Advanced Game Only)
Old Betsy, the farm dog, is 
only used in the Advanced Game 
and is covered in more depth on the 
Old Betsy Hero Card.
The Truck (Advanced Game Only)
The Truck Marker is only used for the Escape 
in the Truck Scenario in the Advanced Game.
Zombie Hero Marker (Advanced Game Only)
In the Advanced Game, sometimes 
when a Hero is killed they may be turned 
into a Zombie. When this happens, a 
Zombie Hero marker is placed under the 
figure and moved with them as a reminder 
that the former Hero is now a brain-
hungry Zombie.
Assorted Counters 
(Advanced Game Only)
Several additional 
counters have been 
provided. These are not 
needed for the main game 
but can be used for house 
rules, homemade Scenarios, 
and new Official Scenarios to come.
Playing Pieces
There are 8 unique Hero figures 
(Grey), each matching one of the 
Hero Character Sheets. There are also 
14 Zombies (7 Green, 
7 Brown). If there 
is only one Zombie 
Player, these Zombies are combined 
to form a single Zombie Pool. If 
there are two Zombie Players, each 
player gets their own Zombie Pool 
of 7 Zombies each (one player gets 
Green, one gets Brown).
Last Night on Earth Soundtrack
Last Night on Earth, The Zombie Game 
comes with it’s own CD Soundtrack of original 
music to listen to while you play the game. It is 
not necessary and does not affect the game play in 
any way, but you may find that it enhances the 
experience.
Card Types
There are two decks of cards, Hero Cards and 
Zombie Cards. In the Basic Game, these decks 
are 40 cards each. There is also an extra set of 20 
Advanced Cards for both the Hero Deck and the 
Zombie Deck. For now, set these extra cards aside 
(they will be used later, in the Advanced Game).
Hero Cards
Hero Cards represent Items and Weapons that 
Heroes can find throughout the game as well as 
Events used to surprise your opponents. 
Items (Green bordered, or Grey bordered 
for Weapons) are cards that are played face-up on 
the Hero who found them. These are discussed in 
greater detail later on.
Events (Gold bordered) are taken into the 
player’s hand and kept secret from the Zombies. 
They can be strategically played on any Hero to 
give them an edge or save them from a grizzly fate.
Zombie Cards
Zombie Cards work a little bit differently 
than the Hero Cards. The Zombie Player(s) have 

a hand of cards at their disposal to use against the 
Heroes as they see fit. They also get to draw back 
up at the start of each new Zombie Turn. There is 
really only one kind of Zombie Card and that is the 
Zombie Event (Wood bordered). These represent 
a host of different abilities that the Zombies can 
use to attack, torment, and generally terrorize the 
Heroes. 
Play Immediately
Some cards are listed as Play Immediately. As 
it sounds, these cards must be played as soon as they 
are drawn. If more than one Play Immediately card 
is drawn at the same time, you may choose in which 
order to resolve them (as long as they are all resolved 
before moving on to the next step in the current 
turn).
Remains in Play
Some cards are listed as Remains in Play. 
Again, as it sounds, this means that the card stays in 
play, face up on the table, and continues to affect 
the game until something causes it to be discarded.
Hero Character Sheets
Each of the different Heroes is represented by a 
Hero Character Sheet that lists their unique abilities 
and information.
Scenario Cards
There are five different Scenarios, each 
represented by a large Scenario Card that lists all of 
its important information and objectives.

There are two types of game boards, the Town 
Center and the L-shaped Outer Boards.
The Town Center
The Town Center board is always placed in 
the center of the table and has larger spaces to allow 
for faster movement across the middle of the board. 
These spaces work exactly like other smaller spaces, 
there are just fewer of them.
On the reverse side of the Town Center board is 
the Manor House. The Manor House is only used 
in the Advanced Game Scenario Defend the Manor 
House as detailed later.
Outer Boards
There are 6 L-shaped Outer Boards. These 
boards represent the surrounding buildings and 
various areas of the town. At the start of each 
game, 4 of the Outer Boards are chosen at random 
and placed around the Town Center to form the 
complete, square game board.
Spaces
The Board is divided into a number of spaces 
that the Heroes and Zombies move through. Every 
space is either an Outdoor Space or a Building Space 
(those within building walls).
There is no limit to the number of models 
that can be in a space at once (Heroes and/or 
Zombies).
As mentioned earlier, the spaces on the Town 
Center Board are significantly larger than those on 
the Outer Boards. These spaces are treated exactly 
the same. The larger spaces in the center just allow 
models to move across the game 
board much faster.
Walls
Walls run along the 
edge of certain spaces 
to show the border of a 
building. Walls block 
Hero movement as well as 
Line of Sight for Ranged 
Attacks (more on that later).
Doors
Doors are marked 
by a break in the 
Wall and allow 
a Hero to move 
through that Wall 
in a given space. 
Heroes may not move 
diagonally through a 
Door.
Zombie Spawning Pits
The red X’s on the L-shaped Outer Boards 
represent Zombie Spawning Pits. These spaces 
are where the Zombies enter the 
board and are usually exactly 
where the Heroes don’t 
want to hang out (unless 
of course they are thinking 
of becoming a Zombie). 
Each Outer Board has one 
Zombie Spawning Pit on it. 
Special Areas and 
Buildings
Some buildings and areas of the board have 
special rules associated with them. These rules are 
listed on the board. 
Pick Up:
Although Heroes can Search in any building 
to draw a Hero Card, some buildings have the 
additional ability to instead pull a specific card out 
of the Hero Discard Pile. These buildings are noted 
as having a Pick Up:.
For example, the Police Station building says 
‘Pick Up: Pump Shotgun’. This means that a 
Hero Searching in the building may either draw a 
card off of the top of the Hero Deck as normal, or 
they may search the Hero Discard pile and just take 
a Pump Shotgun card (if there is one).
Game Boards
The most important note about the Pick 
Up: ability is that to be able to use it, the listed 
card must already be in the Hero Discard Pile 
(you do NOT get to pull it out of the deck).

For your first game, it is recommended 
that you play the Basic Game. The Basic Game 
focuses more on the core rules of the game and is a 
good introduction for new players or a fast paced 
alternative for more experienced players.
Set aside the two sets of Advanced Cards (20 
Hero Cards and 20 Zombie Cards marked with the 
Advanced symbol) or remove them from the decks 
if they have previously been integrated. These will 
be used later in the Advanced Game.
Scenario
In the Basic Game, there is only one Scenario 
- Die Zombies, Die!. Set aside the other Scenario 
Cards and place the Die Zombies, Die! Scenario 
face up on the table near the Hero Players, where 
everyone can see it.
In this Scenario, the Heroes have 15 Turns 
to kill 15 Zombies. The Zombie Players win 
if the Heroes fail to kill enough Zombies, or by 
killing 2 of the Heroes. This Scenario Card has all 
of the objectives on it as well as a set of numbers. 
You can use the circular red marker with the 
hole punched in the center to keep track of killed 
Draw and Place the Hero Characters
The Hero players then randomly draw four of 
the Hero Character Sheets to form their Hero team. 
Place these character sheets on the table face up so 
that every one can see them and take the selected 
Heroes’ playing pieces out of the box.
Each of the Hero playing pieces is now placed 
on the board in their Start: location, listed on their 
Hero Character Sheet. The model may be placed 
in any space of the listed Building (Hero Player’s 
choice).
If a Hero’s Start: building is not present on the 
board, the model is placed in the center space of the 
Town Center Board and, as a bonus, they start with 
a free Hero Card drawn from the top of the Hero 
Deck. If it is an Item it is placed near the Hero’s 
Character Sheet, if it is an Event it is taken into the 
Player’s hand as normal.
Create Zombie Pool
If there is only one Zombie Player, take all 14 
of the Zombies (Green and Brown) and set them in 
a group off to the side. This is the Zombie Pool. 
You can go through any number of Zombies 
during the game, but you can never have more than 
14 Zombies on the board at once.
The Basic Game
Setting Up
Create the Game Board
Place the Town Center board on a large table 
and randomly (face down) choose four of the six 
L-shaped Outer Boards to be placed around the town 
center. Once placed, flip these boards over to create 
the full game board as shown in the diagram on the 
following page. Place the Sun Track near the board 
where everyone can see it.
Shuffle and Place the Card Decks
Shuffle up the Zombie Card and Hero Card 
decks and place them near their respective players. 
It is very important to thoroughly shuffle each 
deck of cards before every game.
When Zombies are removed from the board, 
they are placed back into the Zombie Pool.
If there are two Zombie Players, each of them 
has a separate Zombie Pool of 7 Zombies each. 
One player takes all of the Green Zombies, the 
other, all of the Brown Zombies. Players may 
never use Zombies from the other player’s pool 
(only their own color of Zombie).

Place Starting Zombies
The Zombie Player starts the game with 2 D6 
Zombies on the board (or 1 D6 each if there are 
two Zombie Players). Place the rolled number of 
Zombies on the board from your Zombie Pool. 
Zombies are placed on the board at the Zombie 
Spawning Pits (the big red X’s on the L-shaped 
Outer Boards).
When placing Zombies, you must divide them 
as evenly as possible amongst all of the Zombie 
Spawning Pits. No Spawning Pit may have 2 
Zombies until every pit has at least 1, etc. If there 
are two Zombie Players, they are only limited in 
this way by their own color of Zombie (that is, the 
two players may double up Zombies on a Spawning 
Pit before each pit has a Zombie on it).
Prepare Counters 
and Dice
Place all of the 
Wound Markers 
and other counters 
in a pile near the board 
that everyone can reach. 
Also, distribute the dice 
between the players.
You are now ready to begin 
the game.

Each Game Round is split into two Turns, the 
Zombie Turn and the Hero Turn. During the 
Zombie Turn, the Zombie player(s) get to move 
and attack with their Zombies as well as possibly 
spawn new Zombies. During the Hero Turn, each 
Hero gets to take their actions, in any character 
order they wish. The game ends when either the 
objectives of the Scenario are completed or when the 
Sun Track Marker reaches the end of the track (the 
sun on the horizon).
At the start of each following Zombie Turn 
the Sun Track Marker is moved one space forward 
on the track (counting down). If this moves 
the marker off of the last space of the track (the 
number 1), the game immediately ends. This 
usually represents the sun setting and the Zombies 
coming out in full force to overrun the town 
(though in some Scenarios it represents the Heroes 
surviving till sunrise).
2) Draw New Zombie Cards
The Zombie player has a hand of Four Zombie 
Cards (Two cards each if there are two Zombie 
players). At the beginning of each Zombie Turn, 
the Zombie player(s) draw up new Zombie cards 
until they have a full hand. These cards are secret 
from the Hero players but if there are more than 
one Zombie player they may show each other their 
cards and discuss strategy.
Before drawing up, each Zombie player may 
discard up to one card from their hand if they wish.
3) Roll To Spawn New Zombies
To see if new Zombies spawn this turn, roll 2 
D6 and add them together.
The Game Round
The Zombie Turn
Each Zombie Turn has six steps that must be 
completed in order.
1)	 Move the Sun Track Marker
2)	 Draw New Zombie Cards
3)	 Roll to Spawn New Zombies
4)	 Move Zombies
5)	 Fight
6)	 Place Newly Spawned Zombies
1) Move the Sun Track Marker
In the first turn of the game, instead of moving 
the Sun Track Marker, the Zombie player(s) place 
the marker on the track at the number equal to the 
Turns: listed on the Scenario Card.
Game Round
	
I ) Zombie Turn
	
II ) Hero Turn
For example, the Scenario Die Zombies, 
Die! is listed as Turns: 15 so the Sun Track 
Marker is placed on the track at number 15.
If you roll higher than the number of 
Zombies you have on the board, then you get to 
spawn additional Zombies at the end of your turn.
If there are two Zombie players, each of them 
instead only rolls 1 D6 , needing to roll over the 
number of Zombies that they personally control on 
the board.
Note that this roll is always made after all Play 
Immediately Zombie Cards are played, as they may 
affect the number of Zombies on the board.

4) Move Zombies
After re-filling your hand of Zombie Cards 
and rolling to spawn new Zombies, it’s time to do 
what Zombies do best... mill about and try to eat 
some brains.
You may move each of your Zombies one 
space on the board in any direction (forward, back, 
sideways, or diagonally). Unlike Heroes, Zombies 
may even move through Walls (crawling through 
windows or up through floor boards).
Zombie Hunger - The only 
restriction to Zombie movement is that 
Zombies have an unquenchable appetite 
for human flesh. As such, a Zombie may 
never move out of a space with a Hero, and 
if adjacent to a Hero, the Zombie must 
move into the Hero’s space (if there is more 
than one adjacent Hero, the Zombie player 
may choose).
 Sometimes a card will allow a Zombie to move 
more than one space (such as the card Shamble). 
Zombies moving more than one space are still 
restricted by Zombie Hunger above (if during 
their move they become adjacent to a Hero, any 
additional movement must take them into the space 
with that Hero, etc).
Once all Zombies have been moved, it’s time to 
fight.
5) Fight
Any Hero in a space with one or more Zombies 
must now fight. (See the section Fights below for 
specific details on how combat is resolved).
If there are more than one Hero in the same 
space with a single Zombie, the Heroes may choose 
which one of them has to fight. 
In the case that there are more than one Hero 
and more than one Zombie in the same space, they 
are paired off as evenly as possible. If uneven, it 
is the Hero’s choice as to who has to fight more 
The Hero player(s) may always choose in what 
order fights take place. 
6) Place Newly Spawned Zombies
Once all fights have been resolved, it is time to 
place newly spawned Zombies (if you did not roll 
high enough at the start of the 
turn to get more Zombies, skip 
this step).
Roll a D6 (or a D3 
if there are two Zombie 
players). You may 
now place up to that 
many Zombies from 
your Zombie Pool 
onto the board at 
the Zombie Spawning 
Pits. Remember, as with 
the initial set up of the 
game, when placing new 
Zombies, you must divide 
them as evenly as possible 
amongst all of the Zombie 
Spawning Pits on the board.
In Figure A above, the Hero has 2 Zombies 
in his space and so must fight each of them. In 
Figure B, there are 2 Zombies and 2 Heroes 
in the same space. Each Hero must fight one 
Zombie. In Figure C, there are 3 Zombies and 
2 Heroes. Each Hero must fight one Zombie, 
and one of the Heroes must fight a second 
Zombie (the Heroes may choose who has to 
fight the second Zombie).

During the Hero Turn, each of the Heroes may 
take their turn in any order they wish. However, 
only one Hero may take their turn at a time and 
must finish before the next Hero begins. During 
their turn, each Hero individually completes all of 
the following steps in order.
1)	 Move Action
2)	 Exchange Items
3)	 Ranged Attack
4)	 Fight Zombies
1) Move Action (Move or Search)
The Hero’s Move Action allows them to either 
Move around the board, or Search if they are 
already in a building.
Move -
To Move, the Hero player rolls a D6 and may 
then Move the Hero a number of spaces up to the 
number rolled (you do not have to move the full 
amount).
Search -
Instead of moving, a Hero that is already in 
a Building Space may use their Move Action to 
Search. Searching allows the Hero to draw a Hero 
Card from the top of the deck. If the card is an 
Event, the player keeps it secret and may play it 
whenever it is appropriate. If the card is an Item, 
it is placed on the table face up next to the character 
sheet of the Hero who found it.
Note that Events are not associated with any 
one Hero, but instead are held by the player to be 
used whenever is appropriate (some cards are listed as 
Play Immediately. These cards often have an effect 
that is used for the Hero currently taking their 
turn).
2) Exchange Items 
After a Hero has completed his Move Action, 
he may exchange any number of items with other 
Heroes in the same space.
This is a back and forth exchange, so all Heroes 
in the space may both give and receive Items with 
the Hero who is currently taking his turn.
3) Ranged Attack
If the Hero has one or more Items with a 
Range: listed on it, they may now use one of them 
to make a Ranged Attack.
Choose a target within a number of spaces equal 
to or less than the Range: of the Item being used 
and follow the instructions on the Item card to 
see if the attack is successful. (Range may always 
be counted using the shortest possible number of 
spaces).
The Hero must be able to see the enemy or 
space that they are going to target with their attack. 
Other models do not block sight, but Walls do, 
even if there is a door (as shown in the diagram on 
Page 13). A Hero may however see through any 
Wall that they are touching (it is assumed that 
there are windows or such that the Hero can attack 
through if close enough to the Wall).
A Hero may always make a Ranged Attack at a 
target in the same space.
The Hero Turn
A Hero may always roll to see how far they 
could Move before deciding whether to Search or 
Move.
Heroes have no facing and may move in any 
direction or combination of directions (forward, 
back, sideways, or diagonally). Only two things 
stop a Hero’s movement, Zombies and Walls.
If a Hero enters a space with one or more 
Zombies in it, the Hero’s move immediately ends. 
That Hero will most likely be fighting this turn.
A Hero who starts in a space with one or more 
Zombies may move away.
Also, unlike Zombies, Heroes may not move 
through Walls, they must go around them. Heroes 
can however move through a Wall using a Door 
(the openings cut into the Walls).
Heroes may NOT Move diagonally through a 
Door, they must go straight through.

A Hero may make a Ranged Attack with 
an Item that they got this turn, either through 
Searching or an Exchange (though no Item may be 
used by more than one Hero in the same turn).
Items are found in the Hero Card deck and 
represent different weapons and gear that a Hero can 
use to fight Zombies.
When a Hero finds an Item (usually through 
Searching), it is placed on the table face-up next to 
the Hero’s character sheet. Any player may examine 
any Item on the table at any time (they are fully 
public).
A Hero may only make one Ranged Attack 
per turn, regardless of the number of Items with 
Range: that they possess.
When a Ranged Attack is successful, the Item 
will say whether the target is Hit or Killed. These 
are defined as follows:
Hit - The Target Takes one Wound
(Enough to remove a normal 
Zombie from the board).
Killed - Fills up all remaining Health
boxes of the Target with
Wound markers.
(This only matters if the 
Target has more than one 
Health box).
4) Fight Zombies
At the end of a Hero’s turn, they must fight 
EVERY Zombie in their space.
(See the section Fights below for specific details 
on how combat is resolved).
Note that unlike in the Zombie turn, each 
Hero ending in the space will have to fight all of 
the Zombies there (after all, the Hero chose not 
to move somewhere else).
Items
A Hero may only carry up to 4 Items at a 
time. Only 2 of these Items may be Weapons 
(Hand Weapon and/or Ranged Weapon).
If a Hero ever has more Items than they can 
carry (or more than two Weapons), they must 
immediately discard Items down to their limit. If 
there is more than one Hero in the same space, they 
may exchange Items before discarding.

A Hero may see out of any wall they are 
touching. Only walls not touched block line of 
sight. Note that doors block line of sight just like 
any other wall.
A Hero at the exterior corner of a building is 
not touching either wall, so may not see through 
either.
The Hero in this building can see Zombie 1 
through wall A, Zombie 3 through wall B, and 
Zombie 2 through either wall A or B. The Hero 
cannot see Zombie 4 as he is not touching wall C 
(even though there is a door).
This Hero touching wall A, can see into the 
building as well as off to either side.
Line of Sight for Ranged Attacks

The term ‘fight’ is only used to refer to 
hand-to-hand combat with an enemy (not Ranged 
Attacks).
Who has to Fight?
As noted above, when a Hero and Zombie end 
in the same space, they will need to fight. This 
happens both in the Zombie Turn and the Hero 
Turn (so it is possible that a model will have to 
fight twice before they get to move again).
Zombie Fight: Cards
Some Zombie Cards are listed as Fight: in 
their game text. These cards are used by a Zombie 
during a fight to give them some sort of bonus. 
Zombies are however a fairly mindless bunch and 
have trouble holding more than one thought in their 
head at a time. Because of this:
Fights
Unless stated otherwise, cards and abilities 
may always be used after the Fight Dice have been 
rolled to change the outcome.
A Zombie may NOT use more than one 
Fight: card per fight.
During the Hero Turn, a Hero that ends in 
a space with one or more Zombies has to fight 
EVERY Zombie in their space. This can be very 
dangerous, so Heroes may want to try and avoid 
moving into a space with more than one Zombie.
During the Zombie Turn, it works a little bit 
differently. Heroes and Zombies in a single space 
are paired off as evenly as possible. If there is an 
uneven amount, the Hero Players choose which 
Heroes in the space will have to fight the extra 
Zombie(s).
The Fight
To fight, both players roll a number of dice 
for their model involved as listed below. These are 
called Fight Dice. When rolling Fight Dice the 
players use their highest dice roll to determine who 
wins.
- Heroes roll 2 Fight Dice
- Zombies roll 1 Fight Dice
- Zombies win on a tie.
Using Cards and Abilities
Many cards and character abilities can be used 
during a fight to add more Fight Dice, re-roll, etc.

Anytime a Hero takes a Wound, place one 
Wound Marker on one of their empty Health 
boxes. When the last Health box is filled, the Hero 
is killed and removed from the board.
Any Items the Hero had are immediately 
discarded. Any Event cards the player has in hand 
are unaffected.
Sometimes a Hero will be able to Heal a 
Wound. When this happens, just remove a 
Wound Marker from the Hero Character Sheet. 
If the Hero is allowed to Fully Heal, remove ALL 
Wound Markers from the Hero Character Sheet.
Wounding and Healing Heroes
Hero Combat Bonus: Cards
Many Hero Cards (usually weapons) have a 
Combat Bonus: as part of their game text. These 
cards may be used by the Hero during a fight for 
the listed Combat Bonus: effect.
Unless stated otherwise, a Combat Bonus: may 
only be used once per fight (you may however use 
more than one Combat Bonus:).
Resolving the Fight
A Fight is only resolved after all players have 
decided not to use any more cards or abilities.
Once both players have chosen their highest 
Fight Dice roll and are done using cards and 
abilities, the fight is resolved as follows:
- If the Zombie wins (has a higher roll or is 
tied for highest), the Hero takes one Wound.
- If the Hero has a higher roll, the Zombie 
is Fended Off. The fight ends and both the Hero 
and Zombie remain in the space, unaffected.
- If the Hero has a higher roll and has rolled 
doubles on ANY of their Fight Dice (two 5’s 
Say in the Example above, Billy had a Baseball 
Bat allowing him to roll an extra Fight Dice using 
its Combat Bonus:. Seeing that he is already 
winning, Billy decides he wants to go for the kill. 
Rolling the extra Fight dice he rolls another 3. 
Success! The Zombie will now take a Wound and 
be removed as Billy has won the Fight using his roll 
of 5 and also having rolled the double 3’s.
Example Fight - Billy is fighting a single 
Zombie and rolls a 3 and a 5 on his two Fight 
Dice. The Zombie rolls a 4 on its single Fight 
Dice. Billy chooses the higher roll of 5 against 
the Zombie’s roll of 4. Unless any other cards 
or abilities are used, the Zombie will be Fended 
Off and both models will remain in the space, 
unharmed.
for instance), the Zombie takes one Wound 
(removing it from the board).
Zombies are not hard to Fend Off as the 
Heroes usually get more dice, giving them a better 
chance to roll higher. But, it can be a challenge 
to kill a Zombie without the use of a weapon or 
ability.

Event Cards (whether Hero or Zombie), should 
be fairly clear as to when they should be played. 
Cards listed as Play Immediately should be played as 
soon as they are drawn. Some other cards say ‘play 
at the start of a turn’. 
‘Start of the Turn’
The start of the turn is defined as:
Any point up until the first 
model moves in the Move Zombies 
Phase or takes a Hero Move 
Action’.
Thus, in the Zombie Turn, moving 
the Sun Track Marker, Drawing New 
Zombie Cards and Rolling to Spawn 
New Zombies (Steps 1, 2 and 3) are all 
part of the ‘start of the turn’. The 
start of the turn does not end until 
the first Zombie is moved in the 
Move Zombies Phase (Step 4).
In the Hero Turn, the 
‘start of the turn’ ends 
as soon as the first 
Hero takes a Move 
Action (either moves or declares 
that he is Searching).
Many times a card will allow you to cancel 
another card or ability. When a card is canceled, it 
is immediately discarded without further effect. 
Playing Event Cards and Timing
Canceling Cards and Fights
If a Remains in Play card is canceled, any 
markers on the board placed by that card are also 
removed.
As noted above, a card may not be canceled after 
it has already caused dice to be rolled (or re-rolled).
 If a card is used to cancel a fight, that fight 
immediately ends without being resolved (no one 
wins or loses the fight).
Using Cards and Abilities
Unless stated specifically otherwise, cards may 
be used or played after the fact to alter the results of 
a roll or fight (etc.). 
For example, if a Hero rolls and is currently 
losing a Fight, he may then use a Hand Weapon’s 
Combat Bonus: or play a card to cancel that 
fight or to roll extra Fight Dice, etc.
A fight is only resolved after all players 
have decided not to use any more cards or 
abilities.
The only exception 
to this is that a card 
may NOT be canceled 
after it has already 
caused dice to be rolled (or 
re-rolled).
Some cards and abilities say that 
they may be played at any time, 
‘except during a fight’. This means 
you may not play the card from when 
the Fight Dice are rolled to when the 
fight is resolved. You may play the 
card between fighting two different 

Many times players will need to roll for a 
Random Building. To do this, roll a dice and look 
at the arrows arrayed around the edges of the Town 
Center Board. This roll determines which L-shaped 
Outer Board the Random Building is on (Note that 
a roll of 1 is Hero’s Choice which means that the 
Heroes may choose any building available and a roll 
of 6 is Zombie’s Choice).
Once you have determined which Outer Board 
the building is on, roll another dice. In the corner 
of each building, there is a set of numbers (Ex. 1-2 
or 4-5-6 etc). The building that corresponds to the 
second dice roll is your Random Building. With 
Hero’s Choice or Zombie’s Choice, you may only 
choose a building with a set of numbers.
If the Random Building rolled cannot be used 
for any reason, roll another building on the same 
Outer Board. If none of the buildings on that 
Outer Board may be used, roll again entirely.
If the Zombie Deck runs out of cards, 
immediately re-shuffle the discard pile back into the 
deck.
However, if the Hero Deck runs out of cards, 
the Heroes are out of luck. The deck is not re-
shuffled and the Heroes must make do with what 
they have. This is of course unless a Zombie Card 
caused the last Hero Card to be discarded – in which 
case, as stated above, the Heroes automatically lose.
Rolling a Random Building
Winning the Game
When one side completes their Objectives as 
listed on the Scenario Card (Heroes or Zombies), 
they win and the game immediately ends. (It is now 
time to shake hands, do a little jig, say “G.G.”, 
shout “In your Face!”, or whatever else you deem 
appropriate).
In addition to the normal Objectives, in any 
Scenario (unless specifically stated otherwise) the 
Zombies automatically win the game if:
-	
They kill Four (4) Heroes (This includes 
turning Heroes into Zombies in the Advanced 
Game)
-	
A Zombie Card discards the last Hero Card 
from the deck (or would discard the last card, 
even if there are none left). 
Running Out of Cards
You are now ready to play your first 
game using the Basic Game Rules.

In the Advanced Game there are a few changes 
and additions to the Rules and the Game Setup.
Dynamite
Dynamite is a very effective item with a 
Ranged Attack that can blow up whole hordes of 
Zombies at a time. The only downside is that you 
must have something to light it with.
Gasoline
Gasoline is used for a variety of things from 
refueling a Chainsaw to gassing up an old truck. 
Gasoline also allows the player to place a Gas 
Marker on the board which can be used to cause a 
big explosion. Gas Markers use the following rules:
The Advanced Game
During Game Setup
Advanced Cards
 	
Before the game begins, shuffle the two sets 
of extra Advanced Cards into both the Hero Deck 
and the Zombie Deck (each deck gets an extra 20 
cards bringing them up to 60 cards each). Advanced 
Cards are marked with a symbol in the bottom right 
corner.
Random Scenario
Unlike the Basic Game, in the Advanced Game, 
there are several possible Scenarios to play. 
Once it has been established which players will 
be Heroes and which will be Zombies (but before 
the game begins), one of the Hero players should 
randomly draw a Scenario card to use for the game 
(or if everyone agrees, you may just choose one).
Each Scenario has a different theme, Objectives, 
special rules, and Turn Limit. The Scenario can 
dramatically change the feel and pace of the game.
Constructing the Hero Team
 	
Hero Players may, if they like, choose their 
Hero Characters to fit their play style (instead of 
selecting them randomly).
Explosives
In the Advanced Game Heroes have a new type 
of item called Explosives. These are Dynamite 
and Gasoline. These can be very powerful, 
but usually require other cards to make them 
work (often a Fire card like Lighter or 
Torch). Some Scenarios also utilize these 
Explosives.
Gas Markers
A Gas Marker may be ignited as a Ranged 
Attack using a Ranged Weapon (roll to Hit 
as though it were a Zombie) or by throwing 
(Discarding) any Item with Keyword Fire at it 
using - Range: 2 Spaces, Hits on 3+. 
Any Zombies or Heroes in the space are 
immediately Killed; any in adjacent spaces 
are Killed on the roll of 3+. Remove the Gas 
Marker from the board.
The top portion of the Sun Track is 
shaded black (down to just below the 
number 14). This is known 
as The Black Zone. If any 
Hero is killed early in the game, 
while the Sun Track Marker 
is still on a turn number within 
The Black Zone, the killed Hero is 
automatically turned into a Zombie 
Hero (as detailed below in the Section 
- Zombie Heroes).
The Sun Track - Black Zone

When a player’s last Hero character is killed 
(the player has no characters left to control), 
the Zombie Player takes control of that Hero’s 
Character Sheet and the character is automatically 
turned into a Zombie Hero (as detailed below in the 
Section - Zombie Heroes). 
The Hero Player whose character was just 
killed now gets to draw a new Hero to control 
from the remaining unused Hero Character Sheets. 
Immediately place the figure for the new Hero on 
the board (as detailed below in the Section - Placing 
New Heroes During the Game).
This situation most commonly occurs when 
there are 4 Hero Players (each playing as a single 
character). If your only Hero is killed, you are not 
out of the game. Instead, that Hero is turned into 
a Zombie Hero and taken over by your opponent. 
Then you get to draw a new Hero character to join 
back into the game.
Instead, the Hero may either start in a Random 
Building, or they may start in the center square at 
the Center of Town (or anywhere in the Manor 
House if that side of the board is being used). If 
the Hero starts in the Center of Town (or Manor 
House) they get to draw a bonus free Hero Card to 
start with.
Death of Your Last Hero
Occasionally a Hero Player will get to draw a 
new Hero Character to enter play during the game 
in progress (this usually happens when a player’s last 
Hero Character dies or if a Hero is killed early in 
the game).
A new Hero comes into play with anything 
they would normally start the game with (based on 
abilities or Scenario special rules).
Placing New Heroes During the Game
The Hero is NOT placed in their Start: 
location.
The Hero Player whose character was just 
killed now gets to draw a new Hero to control 
from the remaining unused Hero Character Sheets. 
Immediately place the figure for the new Hero on 
the board (as detailed below in the Section - Placing 
New Heroes During the Game).
Zombie Heroes
Sometimes when a Hero is killed, they will be 
turned into a Zombie Hero controlled by one of 
the Zombie Players. Place a Zombie Hero Marker 
under the playing piece to remind everyone that the 
model is now a filthy Zombie.
The Zombie Player who killed the Hero 
gains control of the newly formed Zombie Hero 
(Zombie Heroes DO count when determining how 
many Zombies you have on the board).
Zombie Heroes work just like normal Zombies 
with the following exceptions:
-	 Zombie Heroes move D3 spaces instead 
of just one.
-	 Zombie Heroes have multiple Health 
boxes (equal to what the Hero had when they 
were alive). Anytime a Zombie Hero takes a 
Hit, they place one Wound marker in one of 
their empty Health boxes. Just like a living 
Hero, when the last Health box is filled, the 
Zombie Hero is killed and removed from the 
game (Zombie Heroes are never placed in the 
Zombie Pool). 
-	 Note that Zombie Heroes do NOT 
retain any of the Hero’s special abilities and 
are never considered to be a Hero in any way.
If a card used on a Zombie Hero says that the 
Zombie is ‘Killed’, automatically fill all of their 
remaining Health boxes with Wound Markers.

The Manor House side of the Town Center 
Board is currently only used for the Defend the 
Manor House Scenario. If this Scenario is being 
played, place the Manor House side face up during 
the Game Setup.
The Manor House counts as a normal Building 
in every way, with the following exceptions:
- Heroes may NOT Search in the Manor 
House
-	 The Manor House may never be chosen 
when rolling a Random Building.
-	 Like the Center of Town, Heroes that 
do not have their Start: location on the board 
may start anywhere in the Manor House and do 
get a bonus free Hero Card.
Corner Walls
Some of the walls in the Manor House extend 
out beyind the normal corners. These extra bits of 
wall are called Corner Walls. 
There is also a plus-
shaped Corner Wall 
in the center of 
the Manor 
House.
Corner 
Walls 
prevent 
Heroes 
from 
moving 
diagonally 
around a 
corner (or 
across the center 
in the case of the 
plus-shaped Corner 
Wall). They do NOT have 
any affect on line of sight for Ranged Attacks.
Die Zombies, Die!
In Die Zombies, Die!, the 
Heroes need to keep track of how 
many Zombies they have killed 
during the course of the game. To 
do this, you can use the circular red 
track marker provided.
The Manor House
Other Scenario Notes
Save the 
Townsfolk
In Save the 
Townsfolk, 
the Heroes 
need to collect 
Townsfolk Event 
cards. When 
found, a Townsfolk 
card is placed face 
up on the table where 
everyone can see it. 
These Townsfolk are not 
associated with any one 
Hero, but are collected by 
the team as a whole.
While on the table, a Townsfolk may 
NOT be canceled.
Also, while on the table, Townsfolk 
may be played and discarded for their 
card effects as though they were in a 
Hero player’s hand of Event cards. 
This, of course, means that it no longer 
counts toward winning the game (but 
sometimes you don’t have any other 
choice). If a Townsfolk is played for 
its card effects, then it may be canceled at 
that time.
Burn ‘em Out
In Burn ‘em Out, the Heroes need to find 
Explosives to blow up Zombie Spawning Pits. 
When using an Explosive to blow up a spawning 
pit, the Hero does not require any other cards (such 
as a Fire card to ignite it, etc).

Sheriff Anderson, Small Town Law Man
In the sleepy town of Woodinvale, 
Sheriff Jack Anderson patrols the quiet 
streets, haunted by his memories of the 
past. Born and raised in the forested 
countryside, he is one of only a 
handful of people who knows the dark 
history of the area. Since his wife died 
eight years ago, he has raised his only son, Billy, alone. 
Now he silently waits for the inevitable, hoping and 
praying that he is ready for an event that never comes to 
pass... at least not again.
Billy, The Sheriff’s Son
An angst-ridden teen, Billy blames 
his father for just about everything 
that has gone wrong in his life 
– especially the fact that his mother is 
gone. He takes great pleasure at getting 
into trouble, using it as a tool to attack 
his father, the town Sheriff. A star 
on the high school track team, Billy is the fastest runner 
in his class; a sight which always gets a smile from his 
girlfriend in the bleachers, Sally. 
Johnny, The High School Quarterback
With a flash of his smile, Johnny 
Miller can have nearly anyone eating 
out of his hand. The Quarterback of 
the high school football team, Johnny 
is one of the most popular kids in 
school. Though he was held back a 
year by Principal Gomez for failing 
nearly every class, he sees it as a golden opportunity 
to keep playing football in the hopes of getting a 
scholarship. 
Father Joseph, Man of the Cloth
A devout man of God, Father 
Joseph McGuiness relies on his faith 
to get him through the daily struggles 
of life. He has watched over the town 
for more than twenty-five years as a 
spiritual figurehead and deems it his 
personal mission to protect the people 
from the evils of the world. Though he is privy to many 
of the people’s well kept secrets, he was never told of 
the town’s past. It is a topic avoided by all who lived 
through it and left unknown to all of those who came 
after.
Becky, The Nurse
A nurse at the new Widowcrest 
hospital facility, Rebecca King walks 
the quiet halls alone on the graveyard 
shift. In the dead of night she often 
hears the screams of the mad echoing 
down from the barred windows of the 
old Widowcrest Asylum on the hill. 
Having recently moved to Woodinvale to take a position 
at the hospital, Becky hardly knows anyone and often 
wonders if she will regret moving away from her family 
and friends to this small, secluded town.
Sally, The High School Sweetheart
A troubled teen, Sally has had 
dark dreams of late. Living with her 
deadbeat, alcoholic step-father and 
her older, step-brother Jeb, Sally has 
always had to take care of herself. 
After her mother died when she was 
very young, Sally has only a silver 
pendant to remember her by. Sally dreams of getting out 
of the small town after high school and actually doing 
something with her life.
Jenny, The Farmer’s Daughter
Born on the farm, Jenny Sty was 
raised to bail hay, feed the animals, 
and plow the fields. Though naive 
to the social circles of high school, 
she has been known to beat up guys 
with roaming hands or wise-cracking 
mouths. More at ease around animals 
than people, Jenny has never understood her father’s 
gentle but sad demeanor and finds comfort in the simple 
truth of hard work on the farm.
Jake Cartwright, The Drifter
Always in the wrong place at the 
wrong time, Jake Cartwright drifted 
into town this morning. A stranger to 
all, Jake lives on the road, traveling... 
always on the move. With a scruffy 
face and well-worn clothes, he has 
learned over the years to make-do 
with what is on hand. This is not the first time Jake 
Cartwright has passed through Woodinvale. He brings 
with him memories of the past and a dread omen for the 
future. He is a sight Sheriff Anderson remembers from 
his youth, and hoped never to see again.
H e r o P r o f i l e s

Q. - When a Random Building result is 
Hero’s Choice for a New Spawning Pit, who 
decides which space of the building the pit is 
actually placed in?
A. - The Zombie Players. Though the Hero 
Players get to choose the building, the Zombie 
Players always place the marker on the board.
Q. - In a game with two Zombie players, can 
I use cards that say “your Zombies” on the other 
Zombie Player’s models?
A. - No. When it says “your Zombies” it 
means only YOUR Zombies.
Other cards that are not specific may be used on 
either Zombie player (or even possibly a mix if you 
are choosing individual Zombie models).
Q. - If I spawned new Zombies this turn and 
then I play “There’s Too Many”, do the additional 
Zombies still have to be evenly distributed amongst 
the Spawning Pits?
A. - Zombies only have to be evenly distributed 
within each action of placing new Zombies. 
Spawning new Zombies at the end of the turn is 
one action, and placing new Zombies with a card 
is another action, so they may double up before 
necessarily putting a Zombie on each pit.
Q. - Can a Ranged Weapon be fired by more 
than one Hero in a single turn? (Example – Billy 
has a Meat Cleaver, and a Revolver which he fires at a 
Zombie. Then Sally moves into Billy’s space and hands 
him a weapon. Billy already has two weapons so he 
has to drop one or give it to another Hero in his space. 
He hands the Revolver to Sally. Now that Sally has 
finished moving, she may fire a Ranged Weapon. Can 
Sally fire the Revolver at a Zombie?)
A. - No. A Weapon card may never be used 
by more than one Hero in the same turn (Ranged 
Weapons or Hand Weapons).
Q. - What happens if a Zombie Card discards 
the top Hero Card from the deck, but there aren’t 
any left? 
A. - The Heroes automatically lose. Just as if 
the Zombie Card had discarded the last Hero Card 
in the deck.
Note that if a Hero draws the last Hero Card 
from the deck, the Heroes do not automatically 
lose.
Q. - If you have four items including Gasoline 
or Old Betsy, and you gain a fifth item, can you 
immediately use the Gasoline or Old Betsy to avoid 
having to discard an item?
A. - Yes. You could also immediately hand 
off an item to any other Hero in your space.
Q. - If I have a Hero Card that says, 
“Immediately cancel any Zombie Card.”, what can 
I use that on?
A. - This can be used to cancel any Zombie 
Card, being played or that Remains in Play.
Q. - If my deck is getting low, can I count the 
number of cards left before it runs out?
A. - No. Players may not count the number 
of cards left in any deck or discard pile (Hero or 
Zombie).
Look for up-to-date FAQ, additional 
material, and support on the Website at: 
 www.flyingfrog.net
FAQ

Game Design - Jason C. Hill
Graphic Design and Layout - Jack Scott Hill
Music Composition - Mary Beth Magallanes
Photography - Jack Scott Hill
Post Production Artwork - Jack Scott Hill
Game Board Illustration - Matthew Morgaine
Rules - Jason C. Hill
Miniature Concept Artwork - James Ma
Miniature Sculpts - Gael Goumon
Playtesters –
James Boer, Mark Brown, Jennifer 
Coonradt, Tom ‘Coony’ Coonradt, John 
Corpening, Gina Corpening, Matthew 
Dudley, Chris Kemnow, Lora Nelson, 
Christopher Shull, Aila Slisco, and countless 
others.
Cast
Heroes:
Johnny – Casey Chambers
Jenny – Christina Lyon
Billy – Christopher Graddon
Sally – Michelle Sanchez
Sheriff Anderson – Chris Brockett
Becky, The Nurse – Alysia Rae
Jake Cartwright,
 The Drifter – Matthew Morgaine
Father Joseph – Michael Medved
Townsfolk:
Jeb, The Grease Monkey – 
 Mark Brown
Doc Brody – Jack W. Hill Jr.
Farmer Sty – Lance Dudley
Principal Gomez – 
 Philip G. Magallanes
Deputy Taylor – 
 David Berger
Mr. Hyde, The Shop Teacher - 
 Christopher J. Blohm
Zombies:
Mark Brown
Jennifer Coonradt
Tom ‘Coony’ Coonradt
John Corpening
Matthew Dudley
Chris Kemnow
Gordon Ludlow
Mary Beth Magallanes
Lora Nelson
Aaron Sutherland
James Youngman
Jocelyn Anderson
Anna Anderson
Gabriel Anderson
Special Thanks -
Jack and Rosa Hill, 
Christopher Frye, Patrick 
Meehan, Scott Dodson, Josh 
Lytle, Dan Tibbles, Sunshine 
Jenny, Richard Coonradt, 
Tom ‘Coony’ Coonradt, 
The Corpening Family, John 
Doll, Matthew Dudley, Lora 
Nelson, Mark ‘The Zombie’ 
Brown, Chris ‘Li Mei Chen’ 
Kemnow, Brian ‘Wake me 
for Adventure’ Underhill, and 
everyone else whose support, 
advice, and inspiration has 
helped Flying Frog take flight 
after so many years.
Credits
Last Night on Earth, The 
Zombie Game TM, Copyright 
1999-2007 Flying Frog Productions, 
LLC. All Right Reserved. 
First Printing 2007. Shot on 
location in Washington State. 
Manufactured in China. The Martians are 
Coming.
Contact Info / Web Info
WWW.FLYINGFROG.NET

Cancel - When a card is Canceled, it is immediately 
discarded without further affect. If a Remains in Play card 
is canceled, any markers on the board placed by that card are 
also removed.
‘Except during a Fight’ - May be used between Fights.
Fended Off - If a Hero beats a Zombie in a Fight, but 
does not roll doubles. The Zombie is left in the space.
Fight - A single hand-to-hand combat between a Hero and 
a Zombie.
Hero Card - Combat Bonus: - A Hero Card’s special 
ability for use during a Fight.
Hit - A single Wound caused to a target (usually from a 
Ranged Attack).
Killed - Placing a Wound Marker in all remaining Health 
boxes of a target. This will remove a normal Zombie from 
the board.
Pick Up: - The ability in certain Buildings to take a 
specific Item from the Discard Pile rather than draw from 
the top of the Hero Deck.
Scenario Search Items - Specific Cards or Card 
Keywords needed to win a Scenario.
Start of the Turn - Any time until the first model moves 
in the Zombie Move Phase or takes a Hero Move Action.
Sundown / Morning - This refers to the Sun Track 
Marker moving off of the last space of the track (the number 
1), and onto the image of the sun on the horizon.
The Black Zone - The area toward the top of the Sun 
Track (from turn 14 and higher).
Wound - A marker placed in a Hero’s Health box to show 
damage. One Wound is enough to remove a normal Zombie 
from the board.
Zombie Hunger - The need for Zombies to move into 
an adjacent Hero’s Space or to not move away if already with 
a Hero.
Zombie Fight: Card - A Zombie Card used to gain a 
bonus during a Fight. Zombies are limited to one per Fight.
Glossary
Advanced Card
Animal
Explosive
Fire
Gun
First Aid
Icon Legend
A Gas Marker may be 
ignited as a Ranged Attack 
using a Ranged Weapon (roll to 
Hit as though it were a Zombie) 
or by throwing (Discarding) any 
Item with Keyword Fire at it using - Range: 
2 Spaces, Hits on 3+. 
Any Zombies or Heroes in the space are 
immediately Killed; any in adjacent spaces 
are Killed on the roll of 3+. Remove the Gas 
Marker from the board.
Gas Marker