About the game
Le Havre is a French city, containing France’s second largest harbor (after Marseilles). The city is notable not only for its size but 
also for its unusual name. The Dutch word “Havre”, meaning “Harbor”, was adopted into French in the 12th century, but these days 
it is considered archaic and “le port” is used instead.
The principle of the game is simple. A player’s turn consists of two parts: First, distribute newly supplied goods onto the Offer spaces; 
then take an action. As an action, players may choose either to take all goods of one type from an Offer space or to use one of the 
available buildings. Building actions allow players to upgrade goods, sell them or use them to build their own buildings and ships. 
Buildings are both an investment opportunity and a revenue stream, as players must pay an entry fee to use buildings that they do not 
own. Ships, on the other hand, are primarily used to provide the food that is needed to feed the workers. 
After every seven turns, the round ends: a Harvest increases players’ grain and cattle reserves, and players must feed their workers. 
After a fixed number of rounds, each player may carry out one final action, and then the game ends. Players add the value 
of their buildings and ships to their cash reserves. The player who has amassed the largest fortune is the winner.
Components
 1 Rules booklet
 1 Rules appendix: Buildings overview
 3 Game boards 
 5 Person discs (1 in each player color)
 5 Ship markers (1 in each player color)
• 6 counter sheets, containing: 
7 large, round supply tiles, each showing 2 game tokens
16 large, round Food production tokens (4x “2/5”, 3x “3/4”, 3x “5/6”, 2x “7/8”, 2x “9/10”, 1x “11/12”, 1x “13/14”)
1 large, round starting player tile
A total of 420 tokens:
48 “1 Franc” coins (Francs are not counted as goods)
30 “5 Franc” coins (You can make change for Francs at any time)
60 “Cattle” tokens (0 Food) with “Meat” (3 Food) on the reverse (You can never make change from food)
60 “Grain” tokens (0 Food) with “Bread” (2 Food) on the reverse
30 “Iron” tokens with “Steel” on the reverse (Steel can also be used as iron)
42 “Clay” tokens with “Brick” on the reverse (Brick can also be used as clay)
48 “Wood” tokens (1 Energy) with “Charcoal” (3 Energy) on the reverse (You can never make change from energy)
42 “Fish” tokens (1 Food) with “Smoked Fish” (2 Food) on the reverse
30 “Coal” tokens (3 Energy) with “Coke” (10 Energy) on the reverse
30 “Hide” tokens with “Leather” on the reverse
• 110 cards: 
5 “Game turn” overview cards in the players’ colors with “Buttery” on the reverse (A Buttery is a food storeroom)
33 Standard building cards (including the Starting buildings: one Construction Firm and two Building Firms)
36 Special building cards
20 Round cards with “Ship” on the reverse (there are 7 Wooden ships, 6 Iron ships, 4 Steel ships and 3 Luxury liners)
11 “Loan” cards
5 “Round overview” cards – 1 each for the 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 player games.
Setup and explanation of components
Le Havre can be played in either a full or a shortened version. Rule changes for the shortened version are described at the 
end of this section. The following table shows how many rounds are played, depending on the number of players:
Number of Players 	
	
	
	
	
	
 5*
Number of Rounds (full version) 	
 	
	
	
Duration in minutes (full version) 	
	
	
	
Number of Rounds (shortened version) 		
	
	
Duration in minutes (shortened version) 		
	
	
*We only recommend the 5-player game for experienced “Le Havre” players.

Game setup changes for the shortened version of the game: 
• Place 3 Francs, 3 fish, 3 wood, 2 clay, 1 iron, 1 grain and 1 cattle on 
the 7 Offer spaces (see text on the ‘Special buildings’ space on the 
game board)
• At the start of the game, each player receives 5 Francs, 2 fish, 
2 wood, 2 clay, 2 iron, 1 cattle, 2 coal and 2 hides.
• Use the small light-colored ticks and not the 
large dark ones to sort the Standard buildings.
• Special buildings are not used.
• In the solo shortened game, players start with a 2-value Wooden 
ship card. An additional 2-value Wooden ship card is placed on 
the Wooden ships space on the game board.
Building cost
Entry fee
Sort order number
Value
Action
3. SUPPLY TILES:
Shuffle the 7 Supply tiles and place them 
face down on the round spaces on the 
game boards. Place players’ Ship markers 
beside the first game board, near the first 
Supply tile. 
4. GOODS AND FOOD TOKENS:
Place the tokens with goods and food on 
their Supply spaces. There is no need to 
place every token on these spaces; the 
majority can be left in the game box and 
added as needed.
There is a Supply and a corresponding Offer 
space for six types of goods as well as for 
the 1 Franc coins, but there are only Supply 
spaces for the 5 Franc coins as well as for 
coal and hides. Francs are the currency in 
this game. 
5. UPGRADING GOODS:
Each goods token has two sides: one 
standard side and one ‘upgraded’ side – 
these can be distinguished by their borders. 
Only standard goods enter the game 
through the Offer spaces – these can be 
upgraded using Building actions.
7. STARTING MONEY:
Each player starts the full 
game with 5 Francs and 1 coal.
2. PLAYING PIECES:
Each player takes 1 Person disc, 1 Ship 
marker and 1 Game turn overview card in 
his or her color. (Players may choose to turn 
the Game turn overview card over to show 
the Buttery).
9. BUILDING CARDS:
There are two types of building cards: 
Standard building cards and Special building 
cards (shown by the anchor). As well as an 
indication of how the building is used, each 
building card has two or three lines of symbols. 
8. SPECIAL BUILDINGS:
Shuffle the special building cards 
and place 6 cards face-down on 
the “Special buildings” space. 
The remaining Special building 
cards are not required and are 
returned to the box.
1. GAME BOARDS:
Place the 3 game boards beside one another 
in the center of the playing area. They are 
numbered in the top left-hand corner. The 
board with the Treasury 
 is to the left, 
the board with the three Building Proposals 
 is in the center and the board with the 
Ship spaces 
 is to the right. 
6. STARTING OFFERS:
Before the game begins, place 2 Francs, 
2 fish, 2 wood and 1 clay on the appropriate 
Offer spaces for the full game. 
(See text on the Offer spaces.)

Type of 
building
14. SHIP CARDS: 
After each Round card has been used, turn it over. This introduces a new ship into the game. The Ship cards, 
which range from Wooden ships to Luxury liners, are read in the same way as the Standard building cards: the 
first line gives the build costs; the second shows the value (with the cost to buy shown below), the type of ship 
and the ship symbol.
15. LOAN CARDS: 
Place the “Loan” cards beside the board at the start 
of the game. It is possible that they may never be used 
during the game. 
16. ROUND OVERVIEW: 
In each game, only one Round overview card is used, 
which corresponds to the number of players. One 
side gives the overview for the full version and the 
reverse for the shortened version.
12. BUILDING PROPOSALS: 
Shuffle the remaining standard building cards and divide 
them into 3 equally-sized piles. Turn each pile over and 
sort the cards by their Sort order number (top right) 
with the lowest-numbered card at the top. Fan the cards 
out from the Building Proposals spaces (Board 2), so that 
the bottom line of each card is visible.
 
The top cards are the buildings that can be built or 
purchased next. Fanning the standard building cards 
allows players to see when which building will be 
available for building or purchase (and what the costs 
are) right from the start of the game. 
10. THE TOWN’S STARTING BUILDINGS:
The green Construction Firm card and the 
two Building Firm cards are removed from 
the pile of building cards and placed beside 
the game boards. These buildings were 
constructed before the start of the game 
and belong to the town.
11. SORTING THE STANDARD BUILDINGS:
The table on the back of each Standard building card shows whether the card is used in the game. The darker 
ticks are for the full game; the smaller, light-colored ticks are for the shortened game. Any card that does not 
have a tick beside the appropriate number of players is removed from the game. Exception: If a card has the 
text ‘Start’ instead of a tick, it is placed with the 3 starting buildings. 
 
Example: Three players are playing the Full version. The Dock is removed, the Sawmill remains in the game. 
(The reverse sides of these two cards are shown).
13. ROUND CARDS: 
Turn the Round cards to the “Harvest” 
(or “No Harvest”) side, sort them by Round 
number for the appropriate number of 
players, and place them face-up on the 
Round card space on game board 3, with 
the card for Round 1 on top of the pile. 
The table on the Round cards shows the 
card’s Round number for different numbers 
of players; cards without a Round number 
in the appropriate row are removed from 
the game). 
Many Round cards have two Round numbers: 
these cards are used in the shortened 
version of the game, which 
uses the smaller, light-colored circle.
17. FOOD PRODUCTION TOKENS: 
Place the Food production 
tokens beside the board
• In the 2-player shortened game, each player starts 
with a 2-value Wooden ship card.
• Sort the Round cards by the numbers in the small 
light-colored circles, not by the large darker ones
• Use the “Shortened Version” side of the Round 
overview cards
• When turning over a Round card, do not check 
against the top number (grey background) but against 
the lower number (pale background) 
(see Tips for smoother game play, page 11)

A Round card is resolved after 
every 7 game turns – players will 
have different numbers of turns 
in each round.
 
The Starting player tile has no 
ongoing function in this game 
and does not change during 
the course of the game. Its only 
purpose is to help with the 
overview of the game. 
 
 
Players’ ship markers are placed 
on the Supply tiles
Two tokens are placed in the 
Offer area
All players with one or 
more Loan cards pay 
exactly 1 Franc once 
during each round. 
Playing the game
During the Round stage, players play a fixed number of rounds (depending 
on the number of players). A round consists of 7 individual player turns and, 
following those, the resolution of the applicable Round card. 
In the Final stage of the game, each player carries out one final action. 
Afterwards, the players count their wealth. The player with the largest 
fortune wins.
Round stage
The Starting Player is the player who lives closest to water. This player 
takes the Starting player tile. After his turn, players take turns in clockwise 
order around the table.
A Player’s turn
A player’s turn consists of two Mandatory actions as well as optional 
Additional actions. Players must carry out first a Supply action and then 
a Main action. Additional actions are Buying and Selling, which may be 
carried out at any time during the player’s turn.
Supply action
During each player’s first action, new goods arrive in the harbor 
and are placed on the corresponding Offer space.
• The player taking the turn places his Ship marker on the next free Supply 
tile (in the direction of the arrow). In the first round, the Supply tiles 
are face-down until they are occupied; once they are occupied, they 
are turned over and remain face up until the end of the game, without 
changing their position. 
• Two different tokens are shown on each Supply tile (Goods or Francs). 
The player takes 1 token from each of these Supply spaces and places 
them with the standard side up on the appropriate Offer spaces. The 
border on the goods token shows which is the standard side.
• The turn in which a ship is placed on the seventh Supply tile is the last in 
a round. At the end of this turn, the current Round card is resolved (see 
“End of a Round” page 7) and turned over. After this, the first turn of the 
following round begins with the next player’s Supply action on the first 
Supply tile.
• Interest for Loan cards: 
The word “Interest” is written on one of the seven Supply tiles. 
Whenever any player places a ship on this tile, all players who have 
taken out a loan must immediately pay exactly 1 Franc in interest, 
irrespective of the number of loans they have. A player who cannot pay 
this Franc must either sell a building or ship or take another loan card 
(see “Loan cards” page 10) and must then pay the 1 Franc.

Main Action
The Main action is mandatory, and follows the Supply action. The player 
whose turn it is chooses one of the two Main actions: Take goods from an 
Offer space or Use a building action. 
Main Action A: Take goods from an Offer space
• The player takes all tokens (Goods or Francs) from one 
of the seven Offer spaces. 
• There is no limit to the size of a personal supply. All goods and Francs 
are placed face up and may not be concealed from the other players. 
Main Action B – The Building Action
• Entering a Building: 
 Most of the building cards allow visitors to take an action, (e.g. to build 
additional buildings) or to convert standard goods to upgraded goods. To 
use a building’s action, a player must enter the building; that is, move 
her Person disc to an unoccupied building.
 A player may enter buildings that are owned by the town or 
by any player. 
Buildings are explained on page 6 and in the Buildings overview.
•	 Entry Fee:
 There is often a fee to use another player’s building; this is shown at the 
top right of the Building card (between the building costs and the Sort 
order number). It must be paid to the owner of the building, either in 
food or in Francs, before the building can be entered and used. 
If food and money costs are separated with a /, a player only pays 
one of the two costs. 
A player may never enter a building if she is unable to pay the entry fee. 
A player entering a building must carry out the building’s action. 
Note: In this game, Food can always be replaced 1:1 with Francs. 
Francs can, however, never be replaced with food.
Additional actions; Buying and Selling
• Buying
 In addition to the Supply and Main actions, a player can buy one 
or more Building and/or Ship cards at any time during his own turn 
(even before taking the Supply action or Main action). 
(See also: Rule clarifications, page 9) 
 Buildings: At any time, all buildings that are owned by the town and 
the buildings on the top of the three Building Proposal piles are 
available for purchase. In most cases, the purchase price is the building’s 
value; if this is not the case, the purchase price is indicated separately (as 
‘Cost’) beneath the value. A player may buy more than one building from 
the same building pile in sequence. 
 
Although money does not count 
as goods, 1 Franc coins may be 
earned from the Offer spaces (as 
can fish, wood, clay, iron, grain 
and cattle). Coal and hides, 
however, are only available 
through building actions.
Buildings are only used when 
they are entered. A player may 
not re-use a building that already 
contains his Person disc. 
Buildings whose cards are still in 
the Building Proposals area may 
not be entered. These buildings 
have not been built yet.
Entry fees must be paid when a 
player takes a building action. If 
the building belongs to the town, 
it is paid to the “Treasury” (the 
Supply). Players do not pay entry 
fees to enter their own buildings.
Example: John uses the Shipping 
Line, which requires 2 food as 
the entry fee. Instead of the 
2 food, he may pay either 
2 Francs or 1 Franc and 1 food. 
If he owns the Shipping Line, 
he does not pay an entry fee.
Buildings and Ships can not only 
be built, they may also 
be bought.
The bank has a base value of 
16 Francs. Its purchase price, 
however, is 40 Francs.

Ships: Only the topmost face-up card on each ship pile may be 
purchased. The cost of each ship is higher than its value and – as on 
the building cards – is indicated below the value. 
Note: Ships can be purchased even if no-one has built a wharf yet: 
wharves are only required to build ships. 
• Selling
 Buildings and Ships may also be sold to the town. These actions may 
even be taken during another player’s turn, but not while she is taking 
an action. Buildings and ships are sold for half of their value.
 When a player sells a building, it is placed with the other buildings that 
belong to the town. When a player sells a ship, it is placed on top of the 
pile of Ship cards of that type. 
 
• Notes: 
- Person discs on buildings are always returned to the player when the 
building is bought or sold. (The people are sent home) 
 
 
- Buildings may not be sold and then bought again in the same game turn. 
- Buildings and ships may not be sold to other players.
Buildings 
Constructing new buildings 
New buildings can be built using the “Construction Firm” and the two 
“Building Firms”. At the start of the game, these buildings are owned by the 
town. A player who enters one of these buildings can build any of the top 
buildings in the Building Proposals area by paying the building costs of 
the new building.
The required building materials are shown at 
the top of the building card (and are repeated 
at the bottom of the card as well).
Note: Brick can always be used instead of clay and steel can always 
be used instead of iron. 
Further explanations of the building cards are included in the Buildings 
overview, which contains a full listing of all building cards.
Building Ships
Ships reduce the amount of food that their owner must pay at the end of 
each round. 
At the end of each round, when the Round card is turned over, a new Ship 
card is introduced into the game (see “End of a Round, “New Ship card”, 
page 8). These ships may be built at one of the Wharves (one ship per visit).
 
This Wooden ship has a value of 
2 Francs. Its purchase price is 
14 Francs. (Luxury liners, on the 
other hand, cannot be purchased 
at all but must be built)
Players may sell at any time, for 
half of the value. The value may 
be different from the purchase 
price. It is always shown to the 
left of the card’s name.
Buying and selling buildings 
allows players to “free” them of 
occupying Person discs and then 
enter them.
This rule is particularly relevant 
to the “Black market” Building 
card (see Building overview).
The Starting buildings allow new 
buildings to be built. 
Note: They do not allow ships to 
be built, only buildings.
Ships help players to meet 
their food requirements. In a 
3-5 player game, there are two 
Wharves; in a 1 or 2 player 
game, there is only one.

To build a Ship, a player pays any required entry fee to the owner of the 
Wharf and then pays the building resources and 3 energy that are required 
to build the ship (see Ships on the reverse side of the Round cards). Players 
generate energy from wood (which may be upgraded to charcoal) or coal 
(coke).
Special Case:
The first player to build a non-Wooden ship at a particular Wharf (an Iron or 
Steel ship or a Luxury liner) must modernize the Wharf by placing 1 brick 
on it. The brick remains on the Wharf for the remainder of the game to show 
that the Wharf has been modernized for all players. Only a player who is 
building a ship may modernize a Wharf. A player need not own a Wharf to 
modernize it.
Ships are very important! 
In this game, long-term planning to meet food requirements is immensely 
important. A player who does not take much grain or cattle at the start of 
the game should build or even buy a ship early in the game – otherwise, it is 
possible that she will spend much of the game just trying to get food. In the 
long term, building ships is important for every player. The game essentially 
cannot be won without ships. 
End of a Round
Harvest
In the Harvest, players receive grain and cattle. A player with at least 
1 grain receives 1 additional grain. A player with at least 2 cattle receives 
1 additional cattle. In rounds where “no Harvest” is shown, neither grain 
nor cattle is distributed.
Feeding phase
Each player must pay the amount of food shown on the Cooking pot 
symbol on the Round card. Ships help with this requirement: Each ship 
that a player owns reduces the amount of food that he must pay by the 
amount shown in the table on the ship card. A player who does not have 
enough food must choose either to sell buildings or to take a Loan card 
(or cards) – (see “Loan cards“, page 10).
Ships are built at the Wharves.
The first player to build a non-
Wooden ship at a particular 
Wharf must first modernize it by 
paying 1 Brick.
 
Players receive grain and cattle. 
A player may never receive more 
than 1 grain and 1 cattle during 
a Harvest.
Players pay food. Ships reduce 
the food requirement by the 
amount indicated.
After every seventh game turn, the top Round card 
from the pile is resolved. 
 Refer to the line on the card that corresponds to the current number 
of players. 
 The second number in the row gives the current round number. Use 
the number in the brown circle for the full game and the number in 
the lighter-colored circle for the shortened game. 
 The third number, in the cooking pot symbol, dictates the amount of 
food that each player must pay during the Feeding phase. 
 The fourth item in the line may show a building symbol (see “The 
town constructs buildings”)
 In the far right column is a Starting player number which is only 
relevant at the start of a round (see first point under “Tips for 
smoother game play“, page 11)

- Remember: Each Franc counts as 1 Food. Players can pay all or part of 
their food requirement in Francs. 
- When players build ships, they receive Food production tokens that 
indicate the amount of food they receive each round from their 
Ship cards. 
- Even if a player’s ships provide more food than must be paid, or if a 
player cannot pay the right amount of food (e.g. by paying with a “meat” 
token), she may not take the excess food. 
The town constructs buildings
The 
 and 
 symbols on some Round cards indicate that a building or 
special building card must be added to the town’s buildings. 
- Standard building card 
: If a normal building is required, take the 
card with the lowest sort order number (top right corner) from the 
Building Proposals.
- Special building card 
: If a Special building card is required, the top 
card from the face-down Special buildings pile is turned face up (see 
the “Marketplace” Standard building in the Buildings overview).
New Ship card 
Finally, the Round card is turned over to show the ship on its reverse. 
Place it on the pile of Ship cards of that type (see Game Board 3).
Next round 
The next player in turn begins the next round (see also the first point in 
“Tips for smoother game play”, page 11).
Round overview card
The Round Overview card gives an overview of all the Round cards.
• The first row on the card shows the Round number in a brown circle.
• The second number – below the Round number and in a cooking pot 
 – shows the amount of food that each player must consume at the end 
 of the round.
• The third line indicates whether a Standard or Special building is to be 
 built at the end of the round, or whether the Harvest does not occur.
• The fourth and fifth lines show which Ship card will be introduced to 
 the game when the Round card is turned over: for example, “2” and 
 “Wood” means a Wooden ship with a value of 2 Francs.
The town constructs 
a building
The Round card becomes a Ship 
card.
The padlock indicates that this 
card does not offer a building 
action.
Special buildings 
are indicated by 
the anchor.
 
The plus sign indicates that the 
building has additional value at 
the end of the game.

Final Stage
The Round stage ends when the last Round card is resolved. 
The Final stage begins. 
Final action
Each player has exactly one more turn and carries out a Final action – 
a Main action (see page 5). Supply and Buying actions may not be taken, 
and Interest is no longer paid. Players may still repay loans and sell 
buildings and ships.
The Starting player begins, then each other player takes a turn.
Note: In the Final stage only, Person discs may be moved to buildings 
which are already occupied by one or more other Person discs. Each 
player, therefore, has the chance to visit one building of his choice during 
the Final action. The only building that may not be entered is the one that 
the Person disc is already on.
Game end and Winner 
The game ends immediately after the final actions. The richest player is the 
winner. A player’s wealth is calculated by adding:
• The indicated values of her buildings and ships 
(the number to the left of the card name)
• The additional value of buildings with a plus symbol 
 (e.g. the Bank), 
which depend on the other buildings that she owns. (see text and 
illustration on the cards) 
• Her cash. 
• Deduct 7 Francs for each loan that has not been repaid.
Goods in a player’s supply have no value (exception: the Storehouse). 
If there is a tie, there are several winners.
 
Important tips (Read before your first play!)
Rule clarifications
• Difference between construction and buying 
All buildings and ships may be either built (constructed) or bought as a 
player chooses; they are usually built. This difference is very important:
Building is always a Main action, and requires building 
resources. It is taken in a Construction building such as the 
Construction Firm or one of the Building Firms. 
Buying is always an Additional action and requires money. 
In both cases, the player who builds or buys the building takes 
the card and places it in front of her.
• Only buildings in the Building Proposals can be built
 The topmost buildings in the Building Proposals piles can either be 
bought or built. Buildings that belong to the town cannot be built but can 
only be bought (The buildings have already been constructed). 
 
At the end of the game, each 
player may carry out exactly one 
Main action. In this stage only, 
Person discs may be moved to 
a Building card that is already 
occupied
The Bridge over the Seine is a 
popular Final action, because it 
allows players to convert leftover 
goods to Francs. 
The player with the highest total 
wealth, comprising building 
values, ship values and cash, is 
the winner.
Example: Larry buys a 
Marketplace for 6 Francs 
with an additional action and 
immediately uses it with his main 
action.
The starting buildings can also 
be bought.

• No Token limit
 The supply of game tokens (goods and Francs) is unlimited. If the supply 
of one type of good runs out, there are 5x multipliers on the back of 
the “2 Food production” tokens. If a token is placed on one of these, it 
counts as 5 tokens.
• Building Proposals emptied
 If any of the three Building Proposals is emptied of cards, it remains 
empty for the rest of the game.
• Change money, but no change for food or energy
 In this game, players can exchange five 1 Franc coins for a 5 Franc coin 
(or vice versa) at any time, and can receive change if they pay more 
money than is required. A player who pays an entry fee with food or pays 
food during the Feeding phase does not receive change if he overpays. 
The same applies when a player pays too much energy for a building 
action; the excess energy is not returned. 
• Always round to the player’s disadvantage
 On many building cards, players may earn half goods or half Francs, 
or be required to pay half energy. Always round to the player’s 
disadvantage: If a player should receive half of something, round down. 
If a player should pay half of something, round up.
Loan cards
• Taking out a loan:
 A player may only take out one or more loans if she is unable to pay 
the interest on existing loans (see Supply action, page 4) or cannot pay 
the required food during the feeding phase (see End of a round, page 7). 
The player then uses all of her food and money, and only if she still 
cannot pay the required amount can a new loan be taken out. A player 
taking a loan must take a Loan card and place it face-up on the table in 
front of her. 
A player receives 4 Francs for each loan taken. Players are never 
obliged to sell buildings.
• Repaying a loan 
A loan may be repaid at any time during the game (even immediately 
before interest is paid). This costs 5 Francs. At the end of the game, 
players deduct 7 Francs for each outstanding loan in their possession 
(See Game End and Winner, page 9). 
The Buildings
• There are five types of building card: Craftsman’s buildings 
, 
Economic buildings 
, Industrial buildings 
 
and Public buildings 
. ). The Marketplace, Clay Mound and 
Black Market count as Non-buildings (no icon). 
• Most of the buildings allow visitors to take an action. Others (for 
example, the Bank) do not allow actions and are only important for 
their owner. These cards have a padlock in the top row.
• At the beginning of a game, only the Craftsman’s buildings are important 
(see “Marketplace” and “Town Square” in the Buildings overview). The 
difference between the various types of buildings is relevant in the later 
This picture shows 25 Francs.
There is never a need to round 
when selling buildings or ships. 
The value is always an even 
number.
Players may never choose of 
their own accord to take out 
a loan, in order to invest in a 
building or a ship or to pay an 
entry fee.
If there are not enough Loan 
cards in the game, they may be 
turned over: the reverse of the 
Loan cards shows “3 loans”.
Tip: It is very possible for a 
player to win this game even 
if she has had to take several 
loans. (One possibility is by 
owning the Local Court, see the 
Buildings overview). 
 

game for the Town Hall and Bank (Standard buildings), as well as for the 
Guild House and Business Park (Special buildings). The value of these 
buildings is tied to the types of building that the player owns. 
The plus symbol is shown on all cards whose value is tied to other cards 
or to resources. (see illustration of the “Bank” card on page 10). 
• Note: Cards showing a Hammer or Fisherman symbol give 
bonuses to the owner of the Clay Mound, the Colliery, 
the Fishery and the Town Square (see Buildings overview).
• A / between requirements means that either one or the other 
is required. 
Otherwise, use “and, optionally or”: there are several building cards 
which allow several actions (e.g. the Marketplace and the Business 
Office).
• An Arrow allows goods to be upgraded from one type to another. When 
taking the action, the upgrade may be carried out as many times as the 
player wishes, unless there is a restriction. Restrictions are shown as a 
number above the arrow, showing how many times the Upgrade may be 
performed (e.g. “6x”). A condition is sometimes shown over the arrow, 
indicating that energy must be added either for each upgrade or for the 
entire upgrade at once (e.g. Bakehouse and Brickworks).
Tips for smoother game play
• Who takes the first move in a round?
 Whenever a Round card is turned to the ship side, the number at the right 
of the new Round card shows which player will take the first move in 
the new round: “1” is the Starting player, “2” is the next player, etc. This 
ensures that players remember to turn over the resolved Round card. In 
the shortened version of the game, use the lower number in the light-
colored box.
•	 The Buttery
 (A Buttery is a food storeroom) 
The Buttery on the reverse of the Game turn overview cards helps 
players to keep an overview of how much food they need for the end of 
the round. Players can place Food tokens in the Buttery to pay at the end 
of the round, or can place Food Production tokens here to remind them of 
the food that their ships provide. (see Feeding Phase, page 7) 
• Announce the Harvest
 At the end of a round, a player should announce “Harvest” so that 
all players are reminded to take any grain and cattle that they have 
produced.
• Buildings can also be sold 
It’s easy to forget that buildings can be sold at any time. An 
inexperienced player might notice that he is unable to pay the entry fee 
for a building, and look for a different action. He might, however, be able 
to raise the entry fee by selling a building. Towards the end of a game, it 
can be very worthwhile to rid yourself of cheaper buildings or Wooden 
ships.
Example: Eleanor has at least 
1 hammer, so she receives 4 coal 
instead of 3 in the Colliery.
The Smokehouse is an exception 
to the usual way of showing 
energy requirements. The energy 
for this is shown before the 
conversion. 

• Turn buildings upside down
 We suggest that players turn their building cards away from themselves, 
so that other players can read them more easily.. 
• After the Main Action, it is the next player’s turn
 A Player need not wait for the previous player to announce that she has 
finished her turn before taking his turn. Rarely, a player might choose to 
sell or buy a building after taking her Main action. If she wants to do this, 
she can always ask the next player to wait a moment.
• Round number 
 The number of Round cards that are sorted out and placed in a pile 
during the game setup phase is always equal to the number of rounds that 
are to be played. Players can always tell what Round is being played by 
looking at the current Round card. 
• Final actions
 In general, the order of play of the final actions is not important and 
they can be taken simultaneously. In the rare case that the order of play 
matters for some reason, for example when entry fees are paid or Luxury 
liners are bought, players should follow player order. 
A detailed example of a round of the game, with information 
about all the cards, is in the Buildings Overview.
Ship cards need not be turned, 
as they are only relevant to the 
player who owns them.
Thanks
Le Havre is a game that was developed during December 2007. It was inspired by the games “Caylus” by William Attia and “Agricola”. The game was 
edited by Uwe Rosenberg and Hanno Girke. The author thanks Ralph Bruhn for assistance with collating and structuring the rules and Susanne Rosenberg 
for proofreading. Graphics and Illustrations are by Klemens Franz. The author thanks (in chronological order) all the Playtesters – without their feedback, 
it would have been hard to put the game into its current form: Susanne Rosenberg, Bernd Breitenbach, Christian Hennig, Alexander Nentwig, Nicole 
Griesenbrock, André Kretzschmar, Hagen Dorgathen, Miriam Bode, Ursula Kraft, (10.) Volker Kraft, Katharina Wehr, Peer Wehr, Holger Wiedemann, 
Anja Grieger, Axel Krüger, Ralf Menzel, Andreas Höhne, Jens Schulze, Nicole Weinberger, (20.) Michael Kapik, Ingo Kasprzak, Martin Kischel, Sascha 
Hendriks, Astrid Nolte, Christian Woelfel, Torben Trapp, Eva Samson-Trapp, Axel Trapp, Wilhelm Volle, (30.) Gerda Leutermann, Frauke Häußler, Jutta 
Borgmeier, André Hergemöller, Silke Krimphove, Brigitte Ditt, Wolfgang Ditt, Gabriele Goldschmidt, Michael Dormann, Michael Rensen, (40.) Wolfgang 
Thauer, Christian Becker, Holger Herrmann, Ulf Reintges, Ralph Bruhn, Christian Gentges, Andreas Hemmann, Alfred Schneider, Claudio Maniglio, Diana 
Schmidt, (50.) Harry Kübler, Inga Blecher, Kathrin Ostendorp, Simon Hennig, Gesa Bruhn, Andrea Gesell, Marion Wieners, Jens Sinzel, Elmar Wieners, 
Ole Peters, (60.) Fabian Schriever, Nina Wolf, Katharina Woroniuk, Florian Feldhaus, Frank Hommes, Tobias Lausziat, Felix Gorschlüter, Heike Feister, 
Heiko Schiffer, Carola Krause, (70.) Dirk Krause, Sonja Jöher, Ralf Jöher, Kathrin Seckelmann, Burkhard Hehenkamp, Tabea Luka, Erwin Amann, Anke 
Ferlemann, Harry Obereiner, Anja Müller, (80.) Karsten Höser, Nils Miehe, Birgit Baer, Jürgen Kudritzky, Suse Dahn, Thomas Balcerek, Thorsten Rickmann, 
Alexander Ikenstein, Jan Bullik, Hans-Günter Simon, (90.) Elisabeth Mohing, Corinna Häffs, Michael Häffs, Dorle Burgdorf, Matthias Cramer, Nicole 
Reiske, Carsten Hübner, Thomas Mechtesheimer, Margareta Neuhaus, Sebastian Groh, (100.) Kilian Klug, Miriam Krischke, Susanne Amler, Sonja Baier, 
Joachim Gerß, Andrea Dilcher, Horst Blomberg, Hanno Girke, Jan-Simon Behnke, Mark-Oliver Behnke, (110.) Felix Girke, Thomas Hageleit, Gero Moritz, 
Daniel Saltmann, Bastian Trachte, Gesa Vogelsang, Jessica Jordan, Timo Loist, Jörg Hübner, Melanie Busse, (120.) Michael Brocker, Nico Oster, Frederike 
Diehl, André Diehl, Uwe Mölter, Christoph Kossendey, Martin Pieczkowski, Eleni Mitropoulou, Klaus Zündorf, Sylvia Schweers, (130.) Thomas Kutzas, 
Frank Pohl, Ansgar Schröer, Manfred Wahl, Andrea Kattnig, Klemens Franz, Elke Duffner, Helga Duffner, Joachim Ring, Johannes Schulz-Thierbach, (140.) 
Peter Eggert, Eric Humrich, Ingo Schildmann, Tobias Stapelfeldt, Manfred Wöste, Petra Böhm, Yvonne Lüscher, Dieter Alber, Ihno Kelsch, Ulrike Marisken, 
(150.) Mareike Oertwig, Jürgen Aden, Simone Hüther, Corina Schmeer, Volker Schäfer, Jan Schmeer, Lea Hellbrück together with Ingo Griebsch, Norbert 
Pipenhagen, Joachim Schabrowski, Mechthild Kanz, (160.) Reiner Frensemeyer, Reinhold Kanz, Heike Lopez, Michael Lopez, Sebastian Halbig, Hans Pöter, 
Harald Topf, Joachim Janus, Charly Petri, Jörg Schulte, (170.) Markus Treis, Thomas Kroll, Ralf Rechmann, Sebastian Felgenhauer, Stefan Hagen, Hartmut 
Thordsen, Dominik Krister, Rolf Braun, Timo Schreiter, Thorsten Kempkens, (180.) Georg von der Brüggen, Markus Dichtl, Frank Josephs, Petar Damir 
Nenadic, Ingrid Bohle, Berit Ehlers, Ludwig Voß, Nele Peters, Peter Weyers, Detlef Krägenbrink, (190.) Bodo Therissen, Jörg Pioch, Marc Holzrichter, 
Markus Benning, Markus Dichtl, Nicole Fröhlingsdorf, Matthias Oestreicher, Bettina von Rüden, Frank Bergfeld, Thomas Legler, (200.) Jörg von Rüden, 
Michael Stadler, Ulrich Büscher, Anton Wiens, Uwe Dinglinger, Matthias Michels, Karin Michels, Raimund Dreier, Friedel Hoffmann, Kristiane Hollenberg, 
(210.) Thorsten Kurland, Joan Nguyen, Michael Oberhach, Thorsten Winter, Melissa Rogerson, Daniel Hogetoorn, Sebastian Cappellacci, Martina Möller, 
Anke Schmidt, Knud Gentz, (220.) Frank Mannberger, Michael Heißing, Detlev Runo, Jochen Schwinghammer, Frank Birbacher, Georg Dreifuß, Denis 
Fischer, Nina Gönner, Birgit Stolte, Laszlo Molnar, (230.) Daniel Frieg, Markus Grafen, Stefan Wahoff, Claudia Kaiser, Silke Jörgens, Alexander Finke, Marc 
Hohmann, Torsten Taschner, Dominik Hilbrich, Henrik Nachtrodt, (240.) Jan Mönter, Ronny Vorbrodt, Carsten Grebe, Albert Wolf, Rolf Raupach, Carsten 
Büttemeier, Peter Raschdorf, Julius Kündiger, Thomas Werner, Sabine Beese, (250.) Heike Brandes, Marjan Brinkhaus, Beate Friedrich, Karsten Hartwig, 
Kai Köhn, Stefan Leinhäuser, Stefan Lowke, Markus Schepke, Martin Schmoll, Tim Heinzen, (260.) Ingo Keiner, Marcus Mehlmann Barbara Winner, Roland 
Winner, Knut Happel, Uta Hillen, Horst Sawroch, Frank Gartner, Nicole Biedinger, Dario Bagatto, (270.) Stephan Gehres, Hans-Peter Stoll.
English translation by Melissa Rogerson, who is eternally grateful to her willing proofreaders 
Fraser McHarg, John Kennard, Larry Levy, David Fair and Dale Yu.
© Lookout Games 2008 - 2012
English version : 
© 2013 Z-Man Games, Inc. 
Z-Man Games inc. 
3250 F.X. Tessier,Vaudreuil-Dorion, 
Québec, Canada, J7V 5V5 
Filosofia Éditions inc.
2, rue du Hazard
78000 Versailles, France

A sample first round
David (Red), Fraser (Green) and Dale (Blue) are playing the Full version of the game. Each starts with 5 Francs 
and 1 coal. There are 1 clay, 2 wood, 2 fish and 2 Francs on the offer spaces (see Setup, points 6 and 7).
1. Red turns over the first Supply tile and places his Ship marker on it. The tile shows iron and Francs. 
He places 1 iron from the Supply on the iron Offer space and 1 Franc in the Franc Offer space. 
He takes the 3 Francs from the Franc Offer space for a total of 8 Francs. He could take an Additional action 
and buy a building (e.g. the Marketplace for 6 Francs) but chooses not to. 
2. Green turns over the second Supply tile, which adds wood and fish to the appropriate Offer spaces, and 
places his Ship marker on it. He takes 3 wood. 
3. Blue places his Ship marker on the next Supply tile, which adds fish and grain, and takes 4 fish from 
the Offer space. 
4. Red turns over the fourth Supply tile, which adds wood and cattle. He takes his Ship marker from the first 
Supply tile and places it on the tile he has just turned over. The Offer spaces now contain 1 wood, 1 clay, 
1 iron, 1 grain and 1 cattle. 
Red takes an Additional action: he pays 6 Francs and buys the Marketplace building. Next, he takes his Main 
action: he places his Person token in the Marketplace. As it is his own building, he need not pay an entry fee. 
He takes 1 coal and 1 grain (two different standard goods) from the Supply spaces and looks at the top two 
Special building cards (see Marketplace).
5. Green moves his Ship marker to the fifth Supply tile and adds wood and 1 Franc. He places his person on 
the Building Firm, which does not require an entry fee. He returns 3 wood to the Supply and builds 
the Joinery.
6. The next Supply tile adds fish and clay. The Offer spaces now contain 1 Franc, 1 fish, 2 wood, 2 clay, 1 iron, 
1 grain and 1 cattle. Because the Joinery can be used to earn money and he’s thinking about buying a wooden 
ship for 14 Francs, Blue takes the 2 wood from the Offer space. 
7. Red now takes the seventh turn of the game and supplies wood and clay. There are now 3 clay and 1 of each 
other good on offer. Red thinks, “The more, the better” and takes the 3 clay.
Now the round is finished. The Round card requires each player to pay 2 food. Blue pays 2 of his fish, while 
Red and Green pay 2 Francs each. There is no Harvest during the first round of a 3-player game; if there had 
been one, Red would have received 1 grain. The Round card is turned over and the first Ship card becomes 
available.
8. Green begins the second round by moving his Ship marker from the fifth Supply tile and placing it on the 
first. He adds iron and 1 Franc to the offer spaces. The Supply tiles remain face up for the rest of the game and 
do not change their position during the game. Green can now take his Main action.
Standard buildings
There are 33 Standard buildings. Depending on the 
number of players, not all buildings are used (see “Setup 
and explanation of components” in the rules). 
The 33 Standard buildings include 9 Craftsman’s 
buildings, 6 Economic buildings, 10 Industrial buildings, 
4 Public buildings and 4 Non-buildings. There are a total 
of 6 Fishermen and 8 Hammers on the buildings. 
Abattoir (C, Sort order 09, Value 8, Entry fee: 
2 Francs, Building material: 1 wood, 1 clay and 1 iron). 
The player may upgrade any number of cattle to meat by 
turning over the tokens. In addition, she receives 1 hide 
for every 2 cattle that are slaughtered (rounded down). 
She receives 1 hide for slaughtering 2-3 cattle, 2 for 
slaughtering 4-5 cattle, etc. Hides are only a byproduct 
of slaughtering cattle. They may be upgraded to leather. 
See also “What do I do with leather?” on the last page 
of this appendix.
Arts Center (P, Sort order 11, Value: 10, Entry fee: 
1 food, Building material: 1 wood and 1 clay, 
1 Fisherman). For each other player who is currently 
occupying one of her buildings, the player receives 
4 Francs from the Treasury. Her own person token is 
not counted. First time players should be pointed to 
any opportunities to earn 8 or more Francs during the 
game, to ensure that they don’t miss the opportunity. The 
Arts Center is only included in the game for 4 or more 
players. In games with fewer players it would be too 
weak.
Bakehouse (C, Sort order 05, Value 8, Entry fee: 1 food, 
Building material: 2 clay). The player may upgrade any 
amount of grain to bread, by turning the grain tokens 
over. Each bread baked costs ½ an energy (rounded up). 
For example, 2 energy are required to bake 3 bread. For 
every 2 bread that are baked, he receives a subsidy of 
1 Franc (rounded down). A player could, for example, 
bake up to 20 bread with 1 coke.
Bank (E, Sort order 29, Value 16, Cost 40, Building 
material: 4 brick and 1 steel). The Bank does not allow 
an action. At the end of the game, its value depends on 
the other buildings owned by its owner. Each Industrial 
building increases the value of the Bank by 3 Francs. In 
addition, each Economic building (including the Bank) 
increases the value of the Bank by 2 Francs. Note: The 
Bank is the only building in the game that is built with 
steel. The Bank and the Town Hall are an important 
reason to invest rather than save your money, in this case 
by buying Industrial and Economic buildings.
Black Market (N, Sort order 13, Value 2, Entry fee: 
1 food). The Black Market cannot be built but can only 
be bought. A player who visits the Black Market may 
take 2 of each good (including Francs) whose Offer 
space is empty: that is, 1 Franc coins, fish, wood, clay, 
iron, grain and cattle. 5 Franc coins, coal and hides (as 
well as upgraded goods) cannot be acquired through the 
Black Market. Note: If the Black Market is at the top of 
one of the piles after game setup, we recommend that 
you reshuffle the building cards and lay them out again. 
Otherwise the starting player would have too great an 
advantage during the game. How often the Black Market 
is used depends on when it enters the game. First-time 
players should be alerted at times when they could 
receive 4 or more goods from the black market, so that 
they do not miss the opportunity. 
Brickworks (I, Sort order 14, Value 14, Entry fee: 
1 food, Building material: 2 wood, 1 clay and 1 iron). 
The player may upgrade any number of clay to brick by 
turning over the tokens. Each brick that is produced costs 
½ an energy (rounded up). 1-2 bricks cost 1 energy, 
3-4 bricks cost 2, 5-6 bricks cost 3, etc. For every 
2 bricks that are produced, he receives a subsidy of 
1 Franc (rounded down). So he receives 1 Franc for 
producing 2-3 bricks, 2 for producing 4-5 bricks, etc. 
As well as the Brickworks, the Hardware Store also 
offers an opportunity to obtain brick. 
Building Firms (C, Starting building, two in the game, 
Value 4/6, No entry fee/Entry fee: 1 food, 1 Hammer 
each). The Building Firms are Starting buildings. They 
allow players to build buildings but not ships. Players 
can use a Building Firm to build one of the 3 buildings 
that are at the top of the Building Proposals piles. 
Buildings that are owned by the Town cannot be built 
– they have already been built and can only be bought. 
Building Firms are also explained in the game rules 
under “Constructing new Buildings” in the “Building 
Buildings and Ships” section (Page 6)
Bridge over the Seine (N, Sort order 27, Value 16, 
Entry fee: 2 Francs, Building material: 3 iron). 
The player may sell as many goods as he wishes. He 
receives 1 Franc for each upgraded good and 1 Franc 
for any combination of 3 standard goods (they may 
be the same or different goods). The picture on the 
Building card shows the Pont de Normandie in Le Havre. 
The Bridge over the Seine is often used to sell off any 
remaining goods at the end of the game. 
I
Buildings Overview
 

Business Office (E, Sort order 21, Value 12, Entry fee: 
1 Franc, Building material: 4 wood and 1 clay, 
1 Hammer and 1 Fisherman). The player can exchange 
any 4 goods of her choice (whether upgraded or not) 
for 1 steel. Francs never count as goods. In addition or 
alternatively, she may exchange 1 good for her choice of 
1 charcoal, 1 leather or 1 brick. 
The 4 goods may be the same or different goods. It only 
takes 2 trips to the Business Office for a player to collect 
enough steel for a valuable Steel ship.
Charcoal Kiln (C, Sort order 07, Value 8, No entry fee, 
Building material: 1 clay). The player may upgrade any 
amount of wood to charcoal by turning the tokens over.
Players who take this action need not convert all of their 
wood. No energy is required to create charcoal. The 
process of creating charcoal creates its own energy. 
Church (P, Sort order 30, Value 26, may not be bought, 
No entry fee, Building material: 5 wood and 3 brick plus 
1 iron). A player may only enter the Church if he has at 
least 5 loaves of bread and 2 fish (no smoked fish). He 
receives an additional 5 bread and 3 fish. It’s a miracle! 
The building card shows Le Havre’s Church of St Joseph. 
The action represents the Biblical story of the Feeding of 
the Multitude.
Clay Mound (N, Sort order 10, Value 2, Entry fee: 
1 food). The Clay Mound cannot be built but can only be 
bought. A player who enters the Clay Mound receives 
3 clay from the supply, plus an additional 1 clay for each 
hammer shown on his building cards. 
Cokery (I, Sort order 25, Value 18, Entry fee: 1 Franc, 
Building material: 2 brick and 2 iron). The player may 
upgrade any amount of coal to coke by turning the 
tokens over. For every coke that is produced, the player 
receives a subsidy of 1 Franc. Coke supplies 10 energy. 
Coke is mostly required to move ships or to produce 
steel. No energy is required to produce coke. The process 
of creating coke creates its own energy. 
Colliery (I, Sort order 16, Value 10, Entry fee: 2 food, 
Building material: 1 wood and 3 clay). The player 
receives 3 coal from the supply. A player with at least 
one Hammer on her building cards receives 1 additional 
coal. Players do not receive additional coal for having 
more than one hammer. Tip: The Colliery is the reason 
why each player should have at least 1 Hammer (e.g. by 
buying one of the Building Firms or the Construction 
Firm). As well as the Colliery, the Marketplace also 
offers an opportunity to acquire coal. Players can also 
receive energy through the Charcoal Burner’s and the 
Cokery. 
Construction Firm (I, Starting building, Value 8, Entry 
fee: 2 food, 1 Hammer). The Construction Firm is a 
Starting Building. It allows players to build up to two 
buildings from the top of the Building Proposals piles, 
one after another. It does not allow players to build ships. 
A player can take both buildings from the same pile. 
A player may even use the Construction Firm to build 
one building, then use an additional action to buy the 
next building, and then build the third in the pile with 
the Construction Firm. Buildings that are owned by the 
Town cannot be built – they have already been built 
and can only be bought. The Construction Firm is also 
explained in the game rules under “Constructing new 
Buildings” in the “Building Buildings and Ships” section 
(Page 6)
Dock (I, Sort order 26, Value 10, Cost 24, Building 
material: 1 wood, 2 brick and 2 iron). The Dock does 
not allow an action. At the end of the game, its value 
depends on the number of ships owned by its owner. 
Each Ship card, regardless of type, increases the value of 
the Dock by 4 Francs. The Dock is only included in the 
game for 4 or more players. In games with fewer players 
it would be too strong.
Fishery (C, Sort order 03, Value 10, No entry fee, 
Building material: 1 wood and 1 clay, 1 Fisherman). 
The player receives 3 fish from the supply. In addition, 
she receives 1 additional fish for each Fisherman that is 
shown on her building cards. The Fishery itself shows a 
fisherman. 
1 Franc each. The earnings are shown on the Shipping 
Line card as well as on each goods token (bottom right). 
A player who ships goods with more than one ship at 
once may pay all the energy costs together; they need not 
be paid separately for each ship. Typically, players will 
use 1 coke, with an energy value of 10, to provide energy 
for 3 ships. Leather, cattle and bread are shipped most 
frequently, but also coke and brick. Each good can be 
carried on each type of ship. A player may ship several 
of the same good or different goods on a single ship.
Smokehouse (C, Sort order 08, Value 6, Entry fee: 
2 food or 1 Franc, Building material: 2 wood and 
1 clay, 1 Fisherman). The player can upgrade up to 
6 fish to smoked fish by turning the tokens over. This 
costs 1 energy regardless of how many fish are upgraded. 
For every 2 fish that are smoked, the player receives 
a subsidy of 1 Franc (rounded down). So the player 
receives 1 Franc for smoking 2-3 fish, 2 for smoking 
4-5 fish, etc. 
Steel Mill (I, Sort order 23, Value 22, Entry fee: 
2 Franc, Building material: 4 brick and 2 iron). 
The player may upgrade any number of iron to steel by 
turning over the tokens. This costs 5 energy for each 
iron. If a player upgrades more than one iron at once, 
she can pay the energy costs together; they need not be 
paid separately for each upgrade. Typically, the energy 
costs are paid with coke. The Business Office also offers 
players an opportunity to get steel. 
Storehouse (E, Sort order 24, Value: 4, Cost 10 Francs, 
Building material: 2 wood and 2 brick, 1 Hammer). 
The Storehouse does not allow an action. At the end 
of the game, the value of the Storehouse depends on 
the number of goods tokens its owner possesses: each 
standard or upgraded goods token increases the value 
of the Storehouse by ½ a Franc (round the total down if 
necessary). The Storehouse is only included in the game 
for 4 or more players. In games with fewer players it 
would be too strong.
Tannery (C, Sort order 20, Value 12, No entry fee, 
Building material: 1 wood and 1 brick). The player can 
upgrade up to 4 hides to leather by turning the tokens 
over. For every hide that is tanned, the player receives a 
subsidy of 1 Franc. The 36 Special buildings include 4 
that allow players to sell leather for a good profit. See 
also “What do I do with leather?” on the last page of 
this appendix. 
Town Hall (P, Sort order 28, Value 6, Cost 30, Building 
material: 4 wood and 3 brick). The Town Hall does not 
allow an action. At the end of the game, the value of 
the Town Hall depends on the other buildings owned 
by its owner. Each Public building, including the Town 
Hall itself, increases the value of the Town Hall by 4 
Francs. In addition, each Craftsman’s building increases 
the value of the Town Hall by 2 Francs. The Town Hall 
and the Bank are an important reason to invest rather 
than save your money, in this case by buying Public and 
Craftsman’s buildings. 
Wharf (I, two in the game, Sort order 12/17, Value 14, 
Entry fee: 2 food, Building material: 2 wood, 2 clay 
and 2 iron, may be modernized). The player pays the 
building costs (including 3 energy) for his choice of Ship 
card. Players can only build 1 ship at a time at a Wharf. 
Players can only build ships that have become available, 
and can only build the topmost ship on each pile. The 
first player to build a ship that is not a Wooden ship at 
a particular Wharf must first modernize it by placing 
1 brick on the Wharf. The brick remains on the Wharf 
until the end of the game. A player can only modernize 
a Wharf if he is also building a ship. Players do not need 
to pay additional brick to build additional Iron or Steel 
ships or Luxury liners at a modernized Wharf. The Wharf 
is discussed in detail in the game rules (see “Building 
Ships” in the “Building Buildings and Ships” section, 
page 6). All ships of the same sort supply the same 
amount of food. The only point on which they differ is 
their value: each ship of a given type is more valuable 
than the last. The exception is the Luxury liners: the first 
has a value of 38, the last only 30. 
Grocery Market (E, Sort order 19, Value 10, Entry fee: 
1 Franc, Building material: 1 wood and 1 brick). The 
player receives 1 cattle, 1 meat, 1 fish, 1 smoked fish, 
1 grain and 1 bread from the supply. The goods from the 
Grocery Market are worth a total of 8 food. Some can be 
upgraded. 
Hardware Store (C, Sort order 06, Value 8, Entry fee: 
1 food, Building material: 3 wood and 1 clay, 1 Hammer 
and 1 Fisherman). The player receives 1 wood, 1 brick 
and 1 iron from the supply. A single brick is required 
to modernize a Wharf and to build the Tannery and the 
Grocery Market. As well as the Hardware Store, the 
Brickworks gives players the opportunity to obtain brick.
Ironworks (I, Sort order 22, Value 12, Entry fee: 
3 food or 1 Franc, Building material: 1 wood and 
2 brick, 1 Hammer). The player receives 3 iron from the 
supply. A player may pay 6 energy to take 1 additional 
iron. 6 energy is very expensive for the fourth iron, but 
sometimes a player urgently needs it to build an Iron 
ship.
Joinery (C, Sort order 04, Value 8, Entry fee: 1 food, 
Building material: 3 wood, 1 Hammer). The player pays 
1-3 wood to the supply and takes 5-7 Francs from the 
Treasury. Tip: The Joinery is often used early in the game 
to finance purchase of a Wooden ship. 
Local Court (P, Sort order 15, Value 16, No entry fee, 
Building material: 3 wood and 2 clay) The player may 
return 1 or 2 Loan cards without paying anything for 
them. A player with exactly 1 loan may return it. 
A player with exactly 2 loans returns one and receives 
2 Francs from the Treasury. A player with 3 or more 
loans returns 2 of them (or may choose to only return 
1 and to take the 2 Francs instead). Even a player with 
5 or more loans can still hope to win the game with the 
help of the Local Court. This card is only included in the 
game for 3 or more players (in the shortened version, 
only for 5 players); with fewer players, each player will 
ship enough goods to easily repay any loans.
Marketplace (N, Sort order 01, Value 6, Entry fee: 
2 food or 1 Franc, Building material: 2 wood). The 
player selects 2 different standard goods and takes them 
from their Supply spaces (not from the Offer space!) 
Standard goods are identified by the border of the tokens. 
The player may choose from fish, wood, clay, iron, grain 
and cattle, as well as hides and coal. She may select one 
additional standard good for each Craftsman’s building 
that she owns. A player may never take more than one 
of the same type of good, so may take at most 8 goods. 
After this, the player may look at the two top cards in 
the Special buildings pile and return them to the deck 
in any order. At the end of the game, the Special 
buildings space is never empty. This allows for the 
Marketplace: the visitor must be able to influence the 
order of the buildings right to the end of the game. The 
next player can start his or her turn while the player is 
looking at the Special buildings. 
Sawmill (I, Sort order 02, Value 14, No entry fee, 
Building material: 1 clay and 1 iron). The Sawmill 
is similar to the Building Firm. The Sawmill allows 
players to build buildings but not ships. The card name 
is on a green background, like the Building Firm and 
Construction Firm. Players can use the Sawmill to build 
one of the 3 buildings that are at the top of the Building 
Proposals piles, as long as it is built with at least 1 wood. 
The advantage of the Sawmill is that the player pays 1 
fewer wood than is required. Buildings that are owned by 
the Town cannot be built – they have already been built 
and can only be bought. Tip: The Sawmill is often sold 
early in the game to finance purchase of a Wooden ship. 
This also applies to the Fishery and the Charcoal Kiln.
Shipping Line (E, Sort order 18, Value 10, Entry fee: 
2 food, Building material: 2 wood and 3 brick, 
1 Fisherman). The player pays 3 energy for each of his 
ships that he wants to use to ship goods. Wooden ships 
can ship 2 goods, Iron ships 3 and Steel ships 4. Luxury 
liners cannot be used to ship goods. Each shipped meat, 
smoked fish, charcoal, hide, brick and iron earns the 
player 2 Francs; each cattle, bread and coal earns 
3 Francs, each leather 4 Francs, each coke 5 Francs and 
each steel 8 Francs. Other goods can be shipped for 
II
 

Special Buildings
Up to 5 Special buildings can be bought in each game. 
Because of the function of the “Marketplace” Standard 
building, 6 Special buildings are laid out for each game. 
As with all the other buildings that are owned by the 
town, face-up Special buildings can be bought by players 
but they cannot be built (Similar to the Clay Mound and 
Black Market; an exception is the Football Stadium).
The 36 Special buildings include 6 Craftsman’s 
buildings, 14 Economic buildings, 6 Industrial buildings, 
4 Public buildings, 5 Non-buildings and a Ship. There 
are a total of 13 Fishermen and 9 Hammers on the cards.
Baguette Shop (E, Value 4, Entry fee: 1 food): 
The player can exchange 1 meat and 1 bread up to 
4 times. For each pair of tokens, he receives 6 Francs 
Bakery (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The player can 
exchange up to 6 bread for 3 Francs each. 
Brick Manufacturer (I, Value 8, Entry fee: 2 food, 
1 Hammer): The player returns 3 brick, shows that she 
or he has at least 10 Francs cash, and receives 14 Francs 
Business Park (N, Value 10, Cost 12, 1 Hammer): The 
Business Park does not allow an action. At the end of the 
game, its value depends on the other buildings owned by 
its owner. Each Industrial building increases the value of 
the Business Park by 2 Francs. 
Clothing Industry (I, Value 8, Entry fee: 2 food or 
1 Franc): The player may exchange any number of pairs 
of 1 hide and 1 leather tokens. For each pair of tokens, 
she receives 7 Francs from the Treasury. 
Coal Trader (E, Value 4, Entry fee: 1 food): The player 
can exchange 1 food for 1 charcoal from the supply. In 
addition, or instead, for two food, he can take 1 coal. The 
food can be added together. For example, a player could 
pay 2 meat with a total value of 6 food and take 3 coal. 
Even at the coal trader: Players can pay Francs instead 
of food. 
Diner (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food, 1 Fisherman): 
The player can exchange 1 wood, 1 smoked fish and 
1 bread up to 3 times. For each set of tokens, she receives 
8 Francs from the Treasury. 
Farm (E, Value 8, Entry fee: 1 Franc, 1 Fisherman): 
The player receives 2 fish, 2 grain, 2 wood, 1 hide and 
1 cattle from the supply. 
Feedlot (E, Value 6, Cost 8): The Feedlot does not 
allow an action. In each Harvest, the owner of the 
Feedlot receives 2 cattle instead of 1 if he already has 
2 to 6 cattle. If he has 7 or more cattle, he receives only 
1 additional cattle, as usual. 
Fish Market (E, Value 4, Entry fee: 1 food, 
1 Fisherman): The player can exchange up to 7 fish
for 2 Francs each. Smoked fish cannot be sold here. 
Fish Restaurant (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food, 
1 Fisherman): The player can exchange any number
of smoked fish for 3 Francs each. 
Fishpond and Wood (N, Value 4, Entry fee: 1 food, 
1 Fisherman): The player receives 3 fish and 3 wood 
from the supply. 
Luxury Yacht (S, Value 20, 1 Fisherman): As her Main 
action, the player enters a Wharf and pays the entry fee if 
required. She swaps one of her Iron ships for the Luxury 
Yacht for no additional cost. The exchanged Iron ship is 
removed from the game. The Luxury Yacht counts as an 
Iron ship. In contrast to an Iron ship, however, it does not 
travel for the Shipping Line and it does not provide any 
food at the end of a round. The Luxury Yacht does not 
allow an action.
Masons’ Guild (C, Value 8, Cost 10, 1 Hammer): The 
Masons‘ Guild does not allow an action. Each building 
costs its owner 1 clay or 1 brick less. Buildings that are 
not built with clay or brick are not discounted.
Pâtisserie (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The player 
can exchange 1 bread and 1 grain up to three times. 
For each pair of tokens, he receives 5 Francs from the 
Treasury.
 
Plant Nursery (C, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food, 
1 Hammer): The player receives 4 wood from 
the supply and 3 Francs from the Treasury. 
Schnaps Distillery (C, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The 
player can exchange up to 4 grain for 2 Francs each. 
Smelter (I, Value 10, Entry fee: 2 Francs): The player 
receives 1 coal, 1 coke and 1 iron from the supply. 
Steakhouse (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The player 
can exchange 1 meat and 1 charcoal token up to 4 times. 
For each pair of tokens, she receives 6 Francs from the 
Treasury. 
Steelworks (I, Value 8, Entry fee: 2 food or 1 Franc, 
1 Hammer): The player pays 15 energy to exchange a 
maximum of 1 iron for 2 steel. 
Tavern (E, Value 4, No entry fee, 1 Fisherman): The 
player can exchange 1 wood and 1 grain token up to 
4 times. For each pair of tokens, she receives 3 Francs 
Town Square (N, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 Franc): For each 
Craftsman’s building that he owns, the player can take 
one upgraded good from the supply. Upgraded goods 
are shown by the patterned border around the token. The 
player can only take different goods, and may not take 
steel, Francs or standard goods. 
Wind Farm (N, Value 8, Cost 12): The Wind Farm 
does not allow an action. Whenever the owner of the 
Wind Farm needs to consume energy as part of a main 
action, he receives a discount of 3 energy. The player is 
not paid the difference if the building uses fewer than 
3 energy (for example, the Smokehouse, Bakehouse or 
Brickworks.). 
Zoo (P, Value 8, Entry fee: 1 Franc, 1 Fisherman): The 
player receives money for live animals: one third of a 
Franc for each cattle and one third of a Franc for each 
fish. The total amount is rounded down. The player keeps 
the animals.
Football Stadium (P, Value 24, Building material: 
1 wood, 2 brick, 2 iron, Sort order 31): The Football 
Stadium does not allow an action. Not only can the 
Football Stadium not be bought, it can only be built 
when a Building Proposals space has been emptied. 
The Football Stadium card is then placed on the empty 
space until it is built. 
Forest Hut (E, Value 4, Entry fee: 1 food, 1 Fisherman): 
The player may exchange 1 wood and 1 meat up to 
4 times. For each pair of tokens, he receives 5 Francs 
Furniture Factory (I, Value 8, Entry fee: 2 food, 
1 Hammer): The player can exchange any number of 
pairs of leather and wood tokens. For each pair of tokens, 
she receives 6 Francs from the Treasury. 
Furriery (C, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The player can 
exchange any number of hides for bread. In addition or 
instead, she can exchange up to 2 leather for 5 Francs 
each. 
Guildhouse (E, Value 4, Cost 8, 1 Fisherman and 
1 Hammer): The Guildhouse does not allow an action. 
At the end of the game, its value depends on the other 
buildings owned by its owner. Each Economic building 
(including the Guildhouse itself) increases the value of 
the Guildhouse by 2 Francs. 
Harbor Watch (P, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The 
Player pays 1 Franc to another player of his choice. This 
player must take back her Person marker and place it in 
her supply. The player who entered the Harbor Watch 
then moves his Person marker to the building that his 
opponent has just left and pays the appropriate entry fee, 
if he does not own the building. Players cannot be kicked 
out of buildings that do not allow an action on entry. 
These buildings will only appear in an expansion to the 
base game. 
Haulage Firm (E, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): 
The player must pay 3 Francs to the Treasury, and take 
the goods from two adjacent Offer spaces. He may not 
take Francs. Neighboring fields are cattle and grain, 
grain and iron, iron and clay, clay and wood, and wood 
and fish. 
Hunting Lodge (C, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food, 
2 Fishermen and 1 Hammer): The player receives 
2 hides and 3 meat from the Supply. 
Iron Mine and Coal Seam (N, Value 6, Entry fee: 
1 food, 1 Hammer): The player receives 2 iron and 
1 coal from the supply. 
Kiln (C, Value 6, Entry fee: 1 food): The player 
exchanges 1 clay and 1 energy for 3 bricks. 
Labor Exchange (P, Value 6, No entry fee, 
1 Fisherman): The player receives 1 fish from the 
supply for each Fisherman that she owns. In addition, 
she receives 1 coal for each Hammer that she owns. 
Leather Industry (I, Value 8, Entry fee: 2 food): The 
player returns 3 leather, shows that he has 14 Francs in 
cash, and receives 16 Francs from the Treasury. 
III
 

 How do I get money?
Money (identified by the coin symbol) is used to buy buildings and ships, to 
repay loans, as a substitute for food and, last but not least, to win the game. 
The currency is called Francs.
• The “Francs” Offer space supplies Francs.
• In the Joinery, 1-3 wood can be sold for 5-7 Francs.
• Subsidies (½ Franc per good) are paid in the Smokehouse, Bakery and 
Brickworks, as well as in the Tannery and Cokery (1 Franc per good)
• The Shipping Line allows players to ship goods – the quantity depends on 
the ships that the player owns.
• Goods can be sold using the Bridge over the Seine (only recommended 
towards the end of the game)
• The Zoo and Plant Nursery Special buildings supply money; goods can be 
sold in a further 15 of the 36 Special buildings.
• Buildings and Ships can be sold for half their value at any time.
Note: A player can only take out a loan if she or he does not have enough 
food during a Feeding phase or if she or he cannot pay required Interest costs.
 How do I get food? 
Food (identified by the cooking pot symbol) is used to feed the workers and 
to pay entry costs.
•	Note: food can always be replaced by money.
•	Fish (1 food each) are found on the “Fish” Offer space.
•	The Fishery supplies fish (1 food each) and the Black Market may supply 
2 fish.
•	Fish are upgraded to smoked fish (2 food each) in the Smokehouse.
•	Grain is upgraded to bread (2 food each) in the Bakehouse.
•	Cattle are upgraded to meat (3 food each) when they are sent to the Abat-
toir.
Note: Grain and cattle are not worth any food until they are upgraded.
•	The Grocery Market contains 8 food as well as 1 grain and 1 cattle.
•	The Church contains 13 food (towards the end of the game).
•	The Special Buildings include the Hunting Lodge (9 food), Furriery 
 (convert hides to 2 food each) and Town Square (up to 7 food).
 How do I get energy? 
Energy (identified by the light bulb symbol) is used for processing many 
upgrades.
•	There is wood (1 energy) on the “Wood” Offer space.Wood is upgraded to 
charcoal (3 energy) at the Charcoal Kiln.
•	There are 3-4 coal (3 energy each) in the Colliery.
•	Coal is upgraded to coke (10 energy) in the Cokery.
•	Any 1 good may be exchanged for 1 charcoal (3 energy) in the Business 
Office.
•	Players can often receive 2 wood from the Black Market.
•	The Special buildings include the Smelter, which provides 1 coke and 
1 coal for a total of 13 energy, the Town Square, which contains 1 coke 
and 1 charcoal for a total of 13 energy, the Coal Trader, where players can 
exchange food for energy, the Labor Exchange, where players receive 
1 coal for each hammer, and the Wind Farm, which saves 3 energy on 
each action.
 How do I get brick?
Brick is required to upgrade the wharves and to build many of the buildings.
•	There is 1 brick in the Hardware Store.
•	Clay is fired to brick in the Brickworks (requires ½ energy per brick)
•	The Special buildings include the Kiln, which upgrades 1 clay and 
1 energy to 3 bricks. Players can also receive 1 brick in the Town Square.
•	The owner of the Masons‘ Guild saves 1 brick each time he builds. If clay 
is required for building, players can substitute brick for clay.
•	Any 1 good may be exchanged for 1 brick in the Business Office.
 How do I get iron? 
Iron is required for building Iron ships and some buildings. Iron can be 
upgraded to steel.
•	There is iron on the “Iron” Offer space.
•	There are 3-4 iron in the Ironworks.
•	1 iron can be taken from the Marketplace.
•	There is 1 iron in the Hardware Store.
•	There are 2 iron in the Black Market, if the “Iron” Offer space is empty.
•	The Special buildings include the Iron Mine and Coal Seam, 
which supplies 2 iron, and the Smelter, which supplies 1.
 How do I get steel? 
Steel is required for building Steel ships and Luxury liners, as well as to 
build the Bank. Players can use the Shipping Line to ship steel for 8 Francs.
•	Iron is upgraded to steel in the Steel Mill (requires 5 energy 
for each steel).
•	The Special buildings include the Steelworks, which upgrades 1 iron 
and 15 energy to 2 steel.
•	Any 4 goods may be exchanged for 1 steel in the Business Office.
•	Players can substitute steel for iron if iron is required for building.
 What can I do with leather?
Players produce hides when they slaughter their cattle. Hides are upgraded to 
leather in the Tannery.
Leather can be sold for profit (4 Frances for each leather) using the Shipping 
Line.
Leather is produced in the Tannery. It can be sold for profit (4 Francs for each 
leather) using the Shipping Line. There are also four Special buildings that 
allow leather to be sold (Clothing Industry, Furriery, Leather Industry and 
Furniture Factory). Even converting hides to leather is profitable (1 Franc 
for each leather). Even if the leather is only sold through the Bridge over the 
Seine, it can still be worthwhile to use the Tannery.
 Which building actions should I use towards the end of the game?
Remember: Buildings may not be bought during the Final Stage.
•	The Bridge over the Seine, to sell any goods that are no longer required.
•	The Steelworks, to produce steel for Steel ships and Luxury Liners.
•	The Wharf, to build Steel ships and Luxury Liners.
•	The Shipping Line, to ship goods 
•	The Craftsman’s buildings, to build the valuable Town Hall, 
Bank and Church.
•	The Joinery, to earn another 7 Francs.
•	Other Special buildings that allow for money to be earned.
IV