PREPARATIONS FOR PLAY
LAUNCH THE LEADERS APP
You‘ll need to launch the free LEADERS app on your smart 
device (tablet) in order to start a game. One of the players 
logs in to their “combined games” account.
NUMBER OF PLAYERS
Up to six players can take part in a game of LEADERS. Enter 
the number of players by tapping the corresponding number. 
The app automatically adjusts available resources (cost of 
units, research bonuses, etc.) to the defined number of 
players.
SELECT SCENARIO
LEADERS allows you to select different game scenarios. Simply 
tap the arrows on the left and right edges of the screen to 
scroll through the various scenarios. The basic rules are the 
same for each scenario, but there are a few differences. 
These are described in detail in the full rules: 
PLAYER INFORMATION
In turn, the players now complete the following steps:
Player information: The player enters his/her player name 
and selects his/her chosen color. In some scenarios players 
must also select one of the three power blocs (capitalist – 
neutral – communist). When all information has been entered 
the “CONTINUE” button 
 appears. Tap this to proceed to 
“Select nation”.
Select nation: Tap the arrows on the left and right edges of 
the screen to scroll through the different nations and select 
one. The nations differ from one another in three aspects:
•	 Power bloc:	
The power blocs are relevant in some scenarios. Please 
consult the full rules for detailed information about the 
power blocs: www.leaders-game.com/rules
•	 Home area: 	
Each nation has its own home area. This is only relevant 
in scenarios where the starting area is the home area (see 
“Occupy starting areas”).
•	 Special skill: 	
Each nation has a special skill. This is explained in detail 
on the reverse of the respective nation card.
BEFORE THE FIRST GAME
INSTALL THE LEADERS-APP
Before starting your first game you need to download 
the free LEADERS app and install it on your smart 
device (tablet):
1.	Open the following address in the web 
	
browser of your smart device (tablet): 
	 www.leaders-game.com/app
2.	Follow the installation instructions 
	
on the smart device (tablet).
3.	Done!
You can now launch the LEADERS app.
REGISTER ACCOUNT
To play “LEADERS a combined game” you‘ll need to 
create a free “combined game” account. You can do 
this via the LEADERS app:
1.	Open the LEADERS app on your smart device (tablet).
2.	Tap the “CREATE ACCOUNT” button.
3.	Enter your e-mail address and create a password.
4.	Now tap the “REGISTER” button to complete the 
	
process.
5.	Done!
You can now start your first game of LEADERS!
When developing “LEADERS a combined game” we deliberately focused on enabling players to get into the game as quickly 
and easily as possible without having to read a full set of rules beforehand. More in-depth questions will naturally crop up as 
you play. Please visit our website for a full set of rules with answers to all your queries: 
KEY TO SYMBOLS
The following rules apply for all steps and points 
throughout the game: 
means that you don‘t use the smart device 
(tablet) for this step.
	
means that you use the smart device (tablet) 
for this step.
	
“Public” means that all players need to see 
these entries and processes. 
“Covert” means that only the active player 
should see what is displayed on the smart 
device (tablet).
INTRODUCTION
A COMBINED GAME

OCCUPY STARTING AREAS
The app now indicates how the starting areas are to be 
occupied. One of the following options will be specified, 
depending on the chosen game scenario:
•	Starting area freely selectable: The starting area may be 
chosen at will.
•	Starting area is home area: The starting area is the home 
area indicated on the nation card.
•	Starting area pre-defined: The app defines which player 
occupies which starting area (proceed to “Compensating for 
the starter‘s advantage”).
For “Starting area freely selectable” and “Starting area is 
home area”: Each player in turn places one infantry unit on 
the board in the player order indicated by the app.
Each player starts by placing one infantry unit in the starting 
area pre-defined by the scenario. All players keep a running 
total of their production points using their colored wooden 
marker on the indicator at the bottom of the game board. 
For each area occupied the marker is moved forward by the 
corresponding number of points (see illustration on the left).
Each subsequent infantry unit must be placed in a vacant area 
adjacent to one of a player‘s own areas. If this is impossible 
(because all adjacent areas are already occupied by units 
belonging to other players), the player must select a new 
unoccupied area of their choice on the game board and 
continue the process from there.
 
•	 Areas linked by a dotted line across a sea area also count as 
directly adjacent.
•	 Sea areas (white circle with anchor symbol) may not be 
occupied at this stage.
If a player occupies an entire continent, he/she receives the 
corresponding continent bonus. His/her marker on the indicator 
at the bottom of the game board additionally moves forward 
the number of production points indicated for that continent.
The preparations are complete when all areas on the game 
board are occupied. 
The nation card for the player‘s chosen nation. This 
is placed in the designated space on the player board.
Base camp
Decorations
Military research
All wooden markers of the 
player‘s chosen color. These 
reserves are placed on the left 
next to the player board. 
All playing pieces (in most cases 30 infantry units, 10 tank 
units and 10 aircraft units) of the player‘s chosen color. These 
reserves are placed on the right next to the player board. 
PLAYER BOARD
x30
x10
x10
PLAYING PIECES Each player receives the following playing pieces and equipment:
A player board – This is placed in front of the player. The right-hand side shows the base camp. 
On the left are the indicator fields for decorations and military research. There is a space for the 
nation card in the center. Battle dice and their corresponding units are shown at top left.
x5
Marker moves forward on indicator by 
corresponding number of production points 
Starting area according to 
scenario (e.g.: Western 
Europe)
Production points 
of respective area
The next infantry unit can be placed in Central 
Europe or the British Isles, because these areas 
border Western Europe and are still vacant. 
North Africa also borders Western Europe, but 
it is already occupied by another player.
Sea areas may 
not be occupied.
Total production points for all areas occupied 
by a player, incl. continent bonuses.
Continent bonus

COMPENSATING FOR THE STARTER‘S ADVANTAGE
To compensate for the first player having the starter‘s advantage, 
the other players now receive the following number of infantry 
units and place these in their base camps (right-hand side of 
the player board):
Player 1:	 1 infantry unit
Player 2:	 2 infantry units
Player 3:	 3 infantry units 
Player 4:	 4 infantry units
Player 5:	 5 infantry units
Player 6:	 6 infantry units
SCENARIO-SPECIFIC PREPARATIONS
If scenario-specific preparations are necessary, these will now 
be indicated by the app. Otherwise this point is automatically 
skipped and the first round commences immediately.
Place markers: In some scenarios, the scenario markers 
must now be placed in the respective areas. The app tells 
you exactly which scenario marker must be placed in which 
area.
Special rules: Special rules apply in some scenarios. These 
are displayed by the app, along with a full explanation. Simply 
tap the arrows on the left and right edges of the screen to 
scroll through the special rules.
For detailed information on scenario-specific preparations 
please consult the full rules: www.leaders-game.com/rules
The player then taps the 
 symbol at bottom right to 
continue.
PLAYING A ROUND
A round consists of each player in sequence completing one 
turn as the active player. Each turn consists of 6 phases 
which must be carried out in the following order:
1.	 Withdraw units
2.	Enter production points
3.	Events
4.	Headquarters
5.	Command units
6.	Battle
The next player then begins his/her turn, starting with phase 
1: Withdraw units. A round is complete when each player 
has completed one turn. Players always take their turns in 
the sequence indicated by the app. 
COMPLETING A TURN
WITHDRAW UNITS 
The active player removes any excess units from the game 
board and returns them to his/her base camp. Only one unit 
may remain in each of his/her occupied areas. The player 
decides which unit (infantry, tank or aircraft) remains in each 
area. Note: No units may be withdrawn from sea areas (white 
circle with anchor symbol).
START OF THE PUBLIC PHASE 
ENTER PRODUCTION POINTS
The active player enters the production points total for all 
his/her occupied areas - as shown by their wooden marker 
on the indicator at the bottom of the game board - into the 
smart device (tablet) and then taps the “Continue” symbol 
 
at bottom right.
EVENTS
The active player is now shown information about any public 
events such as reserves of fresh troops, decorations awarded, 
military research and sabotage. Every event shown must be 
viewed by scrolling with the arrows on the left and right of 
the screen and action taken according to the instructions 
given by the smart device (tablet). Once this has been done, 
continue by tapping the symbol 
 at bottom right.
END OF THE PUBLIC PHASE 
START OF THE COVERT PHASE
The device now displays covert events for the information 
of the active player only, such as espionage, research, new 
diplomats and spies etc. Again, the player must view all the 
events before tapping 
 at bottom right to continue.
If diplomatic requests have been received from other players, 
the active player is required to respond to them at this point 
(accept/reject). Then tap the symbol 
 at bottom right to 
continue.
HEADQUARTERS
In this phase the player can spend production points on 
fresh troops, research, diplomacy, espionage, etc. Any 
unspent production points are automatically saved and 
remain available for use in the next round.
Recruit new infantry units, tank units 
and aircraft units!
Carry out research in different fields 
to earn additional bonuses!
Appoint diplomats to forge powerful 
alliances with other players!
Recruit secret agents to spy on 
or sabotage your enemies!
Complete missions to earn 
valuable decorations!
Detailed information about research, diplomacy, espionage, 
etc. can be found in the full rules: 
After taking all the desired action, the player taps on the 
symbol 
 at bottom right to continue.
ENDE DER NICHT ÖFFENTLICHEN PHASE
1 unit remains
1 unit remains
Excess units are returned 
to base camp
Kosten
costs
Research
Diplomacy
Espionage
Missions
Military
Production time required 
in number of rounds
Costs
Available diplomats
Available production points
Available spies

COMMAND UNITS
Place units: The active player places the desired number of 
units from his/her base camp in all areas from which he or 
she wishes to launch an attack.
•	 The number of units placed in an area (including the unit 
already in place) must not exceed that area‘s production 
points.
•	 Units may not be placed in a sea area (white circle with 
anchor symbol) direct from base camp.
Note: Players may only attack areas adjacent to their own. 
Move: The active player moves the units he/she has just 
deployed into the adjacent areas he/she wishes to attack.
•	 An area‘s production points are of no consequence when 
moving units to attack.
•	 Units from several different areas can be moved into an 
area that is adjacent to all of them.
•	 All troop movements must be carried out during this 
phase.
•	 At least one unit must always remain in the original area.
•	 Empty areas may be occupied without engaging in battle. 
•	 Sea areas can only be reached via areas with an anchor 
symbol and white dotted line. The move ends immediately 
for units moved into a sea area (white circle with anchor 
symbol). Note: A sea area may contain a maximum of 5 
units per player.
Defense: All players under attack can now command units 
from their base camp into their areas under attack on the 
game board. 
•	 The number of own units placed in an area (including the 
one already there) must not exceed that area‘s production 
points.
BATTLE 
Battles are fought in all areas containing units belonging to 
more than one player (with the exception of sea areas: here 
the active player can decide whether to engage in battle or not. 
Naturally this only applies to units that were already in the 
sea area before the “Move” phase; the move ends immedia-
tely for any new units in the sea area, as explained above.)
Each player throws one white dice for each infantry unit, 
one grey dice for each tank unit and one black dice for each 
aircraft unit; a maximum of three dice may be thrown.
For each hit symbol thrown, one of the opponent‘s unit in 
the battle area is lost. A double hit means two units are 
lost. Each player chooses his/her own losses by removing 
either an infantry unit, a tank unit or an aircraft unit for each 
hit symbol and returning it to his/her reserves (on the right next 
to the player board). Each battle continues until one or both 
sides are destroyed or one player decides to execute a retreat. 
Note: If both sides are destroyed, the area remains unoccupied.
Important – Don‘t forget to update the production points 
indicator (marker at the bottom of the game board) immedi-
ately every time areas are won or lost!
Retreat: If a player decides to execute a retreat, half of 
their units (rounded up) in the respective area are lost. The 
remaining units are returned to base camp and may not be 
deployed again until the player‘s next turn.
END OF THE TURN
Once the active player has completed all his/her battles their 
turn is over and the smart device (tablet) is passed on to the 
next player, who now begins his/her turn starting with phase 1: 
Withdraw units. This player now becomes the active player.
SPECIAL THANKS TO FERDI KÖTHER FOR HIS ASSISTANCE IN COMPILING THE RULES. ENGLISH TRANSLATION BY ANGELA PARKER. WE‘D ALSO LIKE TO THANK ALL OUR SUPPORTERS: 
G. Kurzmann, M. Wallner, D. Lekanjic, T. Lamplmair, M. Holzer, D. Pilgerstorfer, J. Gstöttner, E. Nöbauer, T. Strunz, G. Brunner, A. Kisch, E. Lamplmair, A. Daw, P. Blaimschein, D. Roloph, J. Smith, M. Bale, H. Müller, S. Hofer, M. Lang, F. Kern, 
L. Kern, B. Olsen, M. Palliardi, I. Heinzle, T. Kapeller, S. Jordan, M. Kaiser, E. Kreuzer, R. Fichtl, F. Primetshofer, L. Hawn, M. Klier, HG, D. Seidl, J. Dvorak, Dooky, S. Hintinger, H. Gallistl, J.Harmon, M. Gutenbrunner, P. Klötzner, R. Weibold, 
P. Naderer, T. Schmidt, S. Schmidt, S. Callahan, S. Winkler, A. Brown, M. Josko, P. Flechsel, G. Preinfalk, S. Kingsbury, L. Buttler, S.Green, M. Neuroldt, P. Schmidleithner, J. Körner, E. Kronbauer, B. Burton, M. Andrew, S. Pfeifer, P. Lehner, 
N. Lehner, D. Craw, A. Broderick, J. Stelzer, S. Huber, D. Hahn, N. Schaubner, T. Furtner, M. Byrolt, F. Gonzales, M. Wine, W. Prenneis, S. Gutenfortner, M. Dunn, W. Kronbichler, F. Gross, R. Steiner, W. Enzenhofer, R. Schmidt, T. Hemetsberger, 
K. Fleischmann, J. Winters, G. Kurz, M. Ramharter, F. Eisner, L. Plank, R. Stary, R. Becker, J. Riedel, M. Seiler, G. Holle, D. Mayland, A. Jovac, F. Matuschek, D. Todorovic, N. Nazario, Karl57, T. Hartl, Nico, M. Ludwig, E. Thalhammer, G. Makulan, 
F. Aigner, S. Oberwartinger, D. Schuster, W. Frey, H. Baas, K. Haunschmidt, P. Landberger, W. Reich, L. Leitner, D. Koc, M&R Angerer, E. Robolan, C. Svenson, R. Vaughn, R. Maxwell, C. Haas, W. Haider, E. Brandstätter, T. Einleger, K. Wurm, 
R. Kern, T. Kander, J. Janssens, D. Erhart, H. Mayr, J. Evans, U. Haslinger, W. Reisinger, G. Pokorny, A. Nicholls, D. Hintringer, D. Bylound, S. Sartain, E. Hartig, P. Krancia, K. Gerstbauer, U. Stollinger, G. Lengauer, O. Hafner, J. Boronico, 
M. Waldhör, K. Haslinger, J. Altmann, I. Vranjic, S. Evans, M. Huber, P. Kramml, A. Frazer, B. Dumfart, M. Reimler, O. Stark, W. Pilgerstorfer
one
double 
no
END OF THE GAME AND PATHS TO VICTORY
As soon as a player fulfills the conditions for victory 
specified in the scenario, he/she has won the game. 
That means that all players do not necessarily need to 
have completed the same number of turns. There are 
three possible paths to victory:
•	Military: A player wins when his/her total on the 
indicator when the production points are entered 
reaches the number specified by the scenario.
 
•	 Research: A player wins when he/she has completed all 
their research strands (military, technological, economic).
•	Missions: A player wins when he/she has completed 
enough successful missions to be awarded the rank 
of “LEADER”.
Units are moved into 
an adjacent area 
At least 1 unit 
must stay behind
1 existing unit
Units available 
at base camp
Max. 4 units 
in this area 
3 new units 
can be placed
Units available 
at base camp
Max. 6 own units 
in this area
1 existing unit
5 new units 
can be placed
2 units are lost 
– returned to reserves
1 unit returns 
to base camp