Legend of the Burning Sands 
Rulebook, Online Version 
Black Hand, Black Heart (Episode 3) 
 
Turn Sequence 
 
Dawn Phase 
Straighten bowed cards. 
 
Day Phase: Do any or all of the following: 
Perform any Day or Open actions. 
Bring a Hero or Holding into play. 
Attach a Follower or Item to a Hero. 
Move cards among Heroes. 
Once per turn, create an Attack Phase. 
 
The Attack Phase 
Declare an attack against other players. 
The Attacker, then the Defender, assigns Ground units. 
The Attacker, then the Defender, assigns Flying units. 
For each battle, beginning with the Defender, each player can: 
Perform one Battle or Open action. 
Bow a unit to engage the enemy. 
Bow a unit to return it Home. 
Repeat Step 4 until both players pass consecutively. 
 
Night Phase: Do any or all of the following: 
Perform any Night or Open actions. 
Pay 3 Water to return a dead Khadi Hero to play, bowed. 
Once per turn, create a Raid Phase. 
 
The Raid Phase 
Declare a raid against other players. 
The Raider assigns units with a face-down card on each. 
The Defender assigns units with a face-up card on each. 
Compare Fate values; the highest wins. Put one Water token from the raided City Section on each 
successful Hero. 
 
End Phase 
Draw four cards, then discard to your maximum hand size. 
 
What is Legend of the Burning Sands? 
 
Legend of the Burning Sands is a trading card game, a cross between traditional card games and collectible cards. The 
first episode of Burning Sands introduced over 150 different cards to collect and trade with your friends. New cards are 
available about every other month in the Rolling Thunder release system. Each new episode introduces two new Factions 
in the struggle to control the Jewel of the Desert and advances the ongoing storyline. 
 
You begin with the sixty cards that came with this rulebook, and you can buy more in Caravan Packs from your 
adventure game bazaar. Some cards are hard to find (those are the most fun to discover!), but on the whole, you can 
collect Legend of the Burning Sands much easier than many trading card games. You do not have to buy new cards right 
away; you can play using just the cards that came in your box! 
 
Your local adventure game bazaar often holds game demonstrations and tournaments in which desert warriors can pit 
their skills against each other. Check in to see what events will be in your area! 
 
The back of your box depicts your Stronghold. Your deck includes a card with the same art and abilities, so you can use 
the card in the game. 
 
As each Episode is released, we add rules to the game and expand the options available for play. Legend of the Burning 
Sands is much more than a game-it is a complex story with many interesting characters that will grow and change as time 
passes. When you and your friends sit down to play Burning Sands, you're telling a story-a special, unique story that you 
create as you play. 
 
What's New 

 
More complete rules for allies and battles 
Council actions introduced 
2-Copper costs to overlay Experienced Heroes 
 
 
How Do You Play? 
Very easily. You get together with one or more friends, each with a deck of Burning Sands cards. Keep some tokens 
handy-glass beads, spare change, etc.-to represent Water and other elements of the game. During play, you can't change 
the cards in your deck, but between matches, you can trade and barter your cards with your opponents. 
 
Preparing your Deck 
You need to have at least fifty-five cards in your deck, plus your Stronghold and City Section cards, which we'll explain 
soon. Part of the fun of a trading card game is deciding what cards to include. Cards work together in interesting ways, 
and you can increase the chance of drawing a given card by increasing the number of copies of it that you include in your 
deck. In Legend of the Burning Sands, you can have up to three copies of any card in your deck, even of cards marked 
Unique. 
 
If you're playing your first game of Burning Sands, don't worry about deck-building. After playing a few games, you'll 
see how the cards interact, and that's when you'll really enjoy constructing your deck. 
 
You should read each of your cards carefully before you begin play, so you'll be sure that you understand the various 
forces and abilities you'll have at your disposal during the game. Also remember that you can request a pause to review 
the rules or read cards in play at any time, but once the game begins, you cannot look through your deck unless allowed 
to do so by a special card effect. 
 
The following pages contain brief descriptions of each card type you'll find in the game! 
 
Stronghold 
On the back of your deck box is a depiction of your Stronghold. It includes your Stronghold's name and determines your 
Faction, such as Senpet, Moto, or Assassins. The three numbers in the middle of the card are your Stronghold's City 
Points, Copper Production, and Influence. 
 
Use your City Points before play begins to purchase and place on the table City Sections. 
 
Copper Production is the amount of Copper your Stronghold produces when bowed. 
 
The number on the right is the amount of Influence your Stronghold can produce when bowed (turned at a 90û angle). 
 
Also on your Stronghold card are its special ability and Fate value. The ability may be in effect all the time, like that of the 
Moto Oasis, or it may require you to bow your Stronghold, like that of the Empire of the Senpet. 
 
Your Stronghold starts the game in play. It is not a Holding (as described later), and it cannot be destroyed. More than 
one player can represent the same Faction-there are often as many internal struggles as external! 
 
City Section 
These are the sections of the City of a Thousand Stories controlled by your Faction. They contain your initial reserves of 
Water. A City Section's name is at the top of its card. It has three numbers printed on it: its Base Strength, its Water 
Capacity, and the number of City Points you must allocate to begin the game with that City Section in play. The text box 
describes abilities or restrictions associated with the City Section. 
 
Each City Section costs City Points. Select which City Sections you will control by allocating some or all of your 
Stronghold's City Points. For example, if your Stronghold has 20 City Points, you could start the game with four City 
Sections costing 5 City Points each (5 + 5 + 5 + 5 = 18). After you select your City Sections, leftover City Points are lost. 
This is the only time you can select City Sections. 
 
The Base Strength of the City Section is how much damage it can take before it is destroyed. 
 
The City Section's Water Capacity is the number of Water tokens that begin play on the card. This is also the maximum 
number of Water tokens that the card can hold, unless text on the card indicates otherwise. 
 
Hero 
Heroes are the city inhabitants who will make a lasting mark on its destiny. Flanking the Hero's name, in the upper left 
hand corner is a globe representing the Sun. The value in the Sun is the Hero's Strength. The upper right hand corner 

contains a globe representing the Moon; its value is the Hero's Ka, or her inner force of will. If a Hero's Ka is ever reduced 
to 0, the Hero dies. 
 
Just below your Hero's picture are three values. The left value is your Hero's Water cost, and the center value is her 
Copper cost. These values determine how much of each resource you have to pay to bring that Hero into play. The value 
on the right is her Influence. 
 
The text box contains a description of the Hero's traits and abilities, possibly including her affiliation with any of the 
Factions. If you bring into play a Hero aligned to another Faction, you must pay 2 extra Copper more than her printed 
cost. You do not incur this extra cost when bringing into play Heroes from your Faction or Unaligned Heroes. 
 
The number at the bottom of the card is the Hero's Fate value. 
 
A Hero plus any cards attached to that Hero are often referred to as a unit. 
 
Action 
Action cards usually represent something you order one of your Heroes to do, like challenging someone to a knife fight or 
haggling with a merchant. You do not attach Action cards to Heroes. The name is at the top of the card. 
 
Action cards have three important numbers. The center left number is the Water cost of the card, and the center right 
number is the Copper cost of the card. As with all cards, both of these costs must be paid before the card can be brought 
into play. The bottom number is the card's Fate value. Between these numbers is the text box, which tells you the type of 
action the card creates (i.e., in what situation it can be played) and its effects. 
 
Actions (both on Action cards and as abilities on other cards) come in five varieties: Open, Battle, Day, Night, and 
Reaction. The "Actions" section fully explains their differences. In short: 
 
Day actions are played during the Day Phase. 
 
Night actions are played during the Night Phase. 
 
Battle actions are played during Battles. 
 
Open actions are played whenever you can play Day, Night, or Battle actions. 
 
Reactions tell you when they can be played. 
 
Holding 
Holdings are your resource cards. Many of them generate the Copper necessary to hire Heroes and buy Items. Some also 
perform special abilities when activated. A non-Fortification Holding enters play bowed and cannot generate any effects 
until it straightens. 
 
A Holding's name is at the top of the card. Much like other cards, Holdings have both a Water cost and a Copper cost, 
both of which must be paid to bring it into play. 
 
The text box contains a description of the Holding's function and operation, such as whether it produces Water, Copper, 
both, or a special ability. The Holding's Fate value is at the bottom of the card. 
 
Some Holdings have the Fortification trait. Unlike other Holdings, which come into play in your Home and do not attach 
to other cards, you attach a Fortification to one of your City Sections. Most Fortifications make City Sections harder to 
destroy, but some have more exotic abilities. When a non-Fortification Holding is brought into play, the Holding enters 
the game bowed. 
 
Follower 
Followers are characters who have a lesser role to play in the ongoing story than the Heroes. To the left and right of the 
card name, are Sun and Moon values. The top left number is the Followers' Strength. Top right is the Followers' Ka. 
 
Just below the Followers' picture are three values. The left value is the Followers' Water cost, and the center value is the 
Copper cost. The right value is their Influence, or political clout. 
 
Under these values is the Followers' text box, which contains any special information about the card. The number at the 
bottom of the Follower card is the Followers' fate value. 
 
You can only bring Followers into play by attaching them to unbowed Heroes you control. Followers with a "+" in front of 
their Strength or Ka value add that value directly to their Hero. For example, a Follower card with 0S/+1K inc reases its 

Hero's Ka by 1. A Hero also gains any Followers' benefits (as described in the Followers' text box), as long as the 
Followers remain attached. 
 
Followers with an Influence value (something other than "-") always add it to that of their Hero; Followers don't have 
Influence independent of the Hero to which they're attached. 
 
Item 
Items are objects you give to your Heroes to make them faster or stronger or give them magical abilities. Like Followers, 
you can only attach Items to unbowed Heroes you control. 
 
The name, as always, is at the top of the card. An Item gives a Strength bonus) and/or a Ka bonus directly to its Hero. 
 
Of course, you have to buy your Items. Like other cards, an Item has a Water cost and a Copper cost when you bring it 
into play. 
 
The text box lists the special abilities (if any) that the Item grants to its Hero. Any other important traits the Item has are 
listed here in boldface. For instance, the card may be a Weapon or a piece of Armor. No Hero can have more than one 
Weapon and one piece of Armor at a time. 
 
The bottom number is the card's Fate value. 
 
Spell 
Spells are magical effects generated by Heroes with the Sahir trait. 
 
The card's name is at the top. The values in the center of the card are the Spell's Water cost and Copper cost. 
 
The text box contains any further information about the Spell. It tells you the requirements for bringing the Spell into 
play, the Spell's action type (Day, Night, Battle, Open, or Reaction), the Spell's effects, and any other important 
information. 
 
Spells, like other cards, also have a Fate Value. 
 
To bring a Spell card into play, you must bow one of your Heroes with the Sahir trait, who casts the spell. You must also 
pay any Copper or Water costs associated with the Spell at this time. 
 
Jinn Spells summon Jinn Heroes into play. Like other Heroes, Jinn have Strength and Ka, but they have 0 Influence. When 
a Sahir casts a Jinn Spell, just place the Jinn in play and treat it like any other Hero. 
 
Some Spells, such as Curses, produce effects and are then discarded (placed in your Saved pile) or Buried (see "Saved and 
Buried Piles"). Others (like Jinn Spells) stick around. If a Spell does not indicate otherwise, it is discarded after use. 
 
Story 
A Story card represents one of the thousand tales that make up the legacy of the city. You can follow the fates of your 
favorite characters through Story cards. You cannot have more than one of each Story card in play. The name of the Story 
is at the top of the card, the information about the Story is in the text box, and the Story's Fate value is at the bottom of the 
card. 
 
The requirements you must meet to bring a Story card into play are described in the text box following the "Tale 
Reaction:" indicator. As soon as these conditions have been met, you can play the Story card from your hand into your 
Home and its effects become available to you. Stories are worth Story Points; if you get cards with a total of 5 Story Points 
into play, you immediately win the game. This is called a Story Victory. 
 
While in play, the Story card manifests an effect noted in the text box following the "Reward:" indicator. This is the benefit 
you receive for telling a Story through your masterful play. 
 
Commands of the Sultan 
These are the commands of the Sultan: 
 
If a card or Stronghold contradicts these rules, that card or Stronghold takes precedence. 
If you are removed from the game, all of your cards are removed with you, regardless of which player currently 
controls them. 
If two or more players wish to take an action at the same time or control cards that affect the game at the same 
time, resolve the actions or effects in the order of play, beginning with the Blessed player. 
If a card doesn't have a stat (e.g., Strength, Ka, or Influence), it's considered to have a 0 in that stat. 
 

 
Bowing Cards 
When a card is bowed, you tilt it 90¡ to indicate that it has used its action for the turn. The reverse of bowing is 
straightening, meaning the card is returned to its normal, upright position. A card that is not bowed is unbowed. Some 
cards have effects that manifest without requiring them to bow. 
 
Once a card is bowed, it cannot be used for any other action until it straightens. It cannot attack, defend, raid, or use any 
action in its text box. 
 
Example: One of Abdul's Heroes is in a battle. After several battle actions, Abdul comes to the conclusion that his Hero is 
in trouble and decides to save that Hero. His Assassin Stronghold ability reads "Battle: Bow to send any Assassin Hero 
you control in a Battle Home, bowed." Abdul bows his Stronghold to send the Hero Home to safety. Now that the 
Stronghold is bowed, Abdul cannot send any other Heroes Home from that battle, because the Stronghold has used its 
ability for this turn. 
 
If a bowed card is attached to a Hero, that Hero can take actions as usual. If a Hero is bowed, none of his unit can attack 
or defend during an attack or raid, although other cards in the unit can bow to use any special abilities they possess. 
 
How To Win 
Legend of the Burning Sands has several paths to victory. You can eliminate your rivals by destroying their City Sections 
or by outlasting them as available Water dwindles (a Military Victory), or you can win by creating a powerful legend 
through Story cards (a Story Victory). Some Story cards create and define other paths to victory (Alternate Victories), 
which are only available to you once you have such cards in play. The game ends the instant any player achieves victory. 
 
You lose and are removed from the game if you end your turn with no Water tokens in your control. 
 
Game Setup 
Each player chooses his Stronghold and City Section cards, and prepares one deck of fifty-five or more cards, not 
counting Stronghold and City Section cards. You cannot include more than three copies of any one card in your deck. 
 
Shuffle your deck and give your opponents the opportunity to cut your deck. Place your Stronghold into play in front of 
you. The area of the table around it is your Home, where you will bring your other cards into play. 
 
Place your deck face-down to your right. Place your City Sections in a horizontal row to the left of your deck; this 
represents your scope of control in the Jewel of the Desert. 
 
Draw four cards, plus one card for each City Section card you control, to form your hand. Do not reveal these cards to the 
other players. 
 
Saved and Buried Piles 
Cards are removed from play into one of two discard piles. Unless otherwise stated, cards that you discard or play from 
your hand are always placed in the Saved pile. This pile is immediately reshuffled to replace your deck whenever your 
deck runs out of cards. 
 
Cards that are "destroyed" or removed from play are sent to the Buried pile. These cards are not reshuffled. 
 
Determining Who Starts 
Cut your deck and compare the Fate value of the exposed card with those of other players. The player with the highest 
Fate value has the "Caliph's Blessing" for the first turn. This player-the Blessed player-goes first. Resolve ties with another 
cut. Replace the cuts and square up your decks. After the first player takes an action, play continues clockwise. 
 
Bringing Cards into Play 
Before you can use any card, you must bring it into play. To bring a card into play, you must pay all costs and meet all 
conditions required to play the card, as described on the card and in these rules. Cards in your deck, in one of your 
discard piles, and in your hand are not considered "in play," and they have no effect in the game. The player who brings a 
card into play "controls" it, unless a card effect specifically transfers control to another player. 
 
If a card has the Unique trait, only one copy of that card can be in play at any time. You cannot bring a Unique card into 
play if there is a Unique card with the same name already in play. If a Unique card was in play but has been destroyed, 
another copy of the card can be brought into play. 
 
Many of the cards you play in Legend of the Burning Sands have Copper or Water costs. If you are unable to meet the 
Water requirements of a card after producing Copper to bring it into play or vice versa, the Copper or Water you paid is 
lost and the card does not enter play. 
 

Paying Copper Costs 
To produce Copper, you can bow any Copper-producing card, including your Stronghold, at any time. You cannot bow a 
card to produce Copper unless you are paying a cost. You can bow multiple cards to generate enough Copper to meet the 
Copper cost of one card, but you cannot pay for two or more cards with the Copper produced by one card. For instance, 
the Copper Mine, which bows to produce 2 Copper, cannot pay for a Follower costing 1 Copper and an Item costing 1 
Copper. Only one card can be brought into play at a time. Excess Copper is taxed by the Sultan and lost. If you try to put 
into play a card that you cannot afford, the card goes back into your hand and any Copper produced in the effort is lost to 
the Sultan's coffers. 
 
Paying Water Costs 
Some cards require that you pay Water tokens to bring them into play. Pay the Water tokens from any of your City 
Sections; you cannot use Water tokens attached to any other cards as payment. All tokens used to pay a Water cost leave 
the game; they do not attach to the paid-for card. 
 
Attaching and Moving Cards 
When you attach a card to a Hero, place the card beneath the Hero. This card is under the command of or in the 
possession of the Hero. Newly attached cards are not bowed when they enter play and are ready for use as soon as they 
are attached. A Hero and all of his Followers are a unit. 
 
To move Follower, Item, or Spell cards among Heroes, you must bow all of the exchanging Heroes. Once the Heroes are 
bowed, you can exchange any number of cards between them as one Day action. You cannot transfer cards to a Hero that 
was already bowed. Whether you are transferring cards this way or with a card effect, the Hero to which you wish to 
transfer cards must be legally able to attach them. 
 
Once attached to a Hero, cards and tokens remain there and cannot be removed unless a card or rules effect allows or 
causes them to be removed. 
 
Traits and Abilities 
Many Heroes have traits and abilities, which specify their Faction allegiances (if any), indicate whether they are Sahir or 
Jinn, and occasionally produce interesting game effects. A trait is anything in a Hero's text box that is not italicized and is 
not prefaced by "Open:", "Battle:", "Day:", "Night:", or "Reaction:". Traits include Faction identifiers and titles, whether the 
Hero is a Warrior or Sahir, and bonuses. 
 
Any card with, say, "Foo" (or plural "Foos," or possessive "Foo's") in the title or in the bold-faced section of the trait area is 
considered a "Foo" card and is affected by things that refer to "Foo" cards. Any action by a "Foo" card is considered a "Foo" 
action. "Foo" cards with Faction allegiances are "Faction Foo" cards. 
 
Reserved game terms (including, but not limited to, "ally," "Attacker," "Faction," and "Stronghold") do not count as traits 
when they appear in a card's title, trait text, or italicized text. Any italicized text that appears on a card is considered 
flavor text and has no bearing on the card or the game whatsoever. 
 
An ability is anything in a Hero's card text box that is prefaced by "Open:", "Battle:", "Day:", "Night:", or "Reaction:". An 
ability on a Hero with the Sahir trait is an innate ability. 
 
Example: A hypothetical card called Monstrous Lost Giant reads: "Moto Giant ¥ Sahir ¥ Duelist ¥ Lost Giant cannot 
defend." Below the traits it reads: "Day: Bow the Lost Giant to destroy a bowed Scarab Hero." 
 
This Hero is considered a Monstrous, Lost, Giant, Moto, Sahir, and Duelist card. (Moto, Giant, Sahir, and Duelist are 
traits.) 
 
The card is not considered a "defend," "bow," "destroy," or "Scarab" card, because these terms are not bold-faced. These 
terms are, however, traits. 
 
The section that begins with "Day: Bow the Lost Giant..." is an ability. It is also an innate ability, because the Giant is a 
Sahir. 
 
Sequence of Play 
1. Dawn Phase 
 
Beginning with the Blessed player, all players straighten their cards. Cards with the trait "can/may remain bowed" do not 
have to straighten if the controlling player wishes them to remain bowed. 
 
2. Day Phase 
 

Starting with the Blessed player and continuing clockwise, each player takes an action from the list below (in no 
particular order) or passes. Take turns doing things from the list until all players pass consecutively, at which point the 
Day Phase ends. 
 
¥ Play a Day or Open action from your hand or from a card in play. 
 
¥ Bring a Hero or Holding into play from your hand by paying its Water and Copper costs. A non-Fortification Holding 
enters play bowed and cannot generate any effects until it straightens. 
 
¥ Attach a Follower or an Item from your hand to an unbowed Hero you control. 
 
¥ Move an attached card from one Hero to another. 
 
¥ Once per turn, attack other players. (See "Attack Phase" and "Attack Phase Segments" below.) 
 
You must give all of your opponents, in turn, a chance to play a Reaction to each of your actions before playing a Reaction 
of your own. 
 
Attack Phase 
 
You can only attack once per turn, but you can attack more than one opponent. You are never required to attack. 
 
Attack Phase Segments 
 
The Attack Phase is divided into four Segments: 
 
I. Declaration Segment 
 
II. Ground Maneuvers Segment 
 
III. Flying Maneuvers Segment 
 
IV. Battle Action Segment 
 
I. Declaration Segment 
 
First, you declare your attack against one or more players' City Sections. (You do not attack Heroes and Holdings; only 
card effects allow you to affect Heroes and Holdings.) Your attack declaration reflects your intention to crush your 
enemies. 
 
You are the Attacker and the other players are the Defenders. You do not need to declare an attack against all the 
opposing players-only those you wish to designate as Defenders. You can attack as many of each Defender's City Sections 
as you want. 
 
Requirements for Attack 
By declaring an attack against one or more players, you are thereby obligated to send at least one unit against each 
Defender in either the Ground or Flying Maneuvers Segments. If you cannot legally send a unit, you cannot declare an 
Attack. 
 
Offensive and Defensive Allies 
During the Declaration Segment, the Attacker and then the Defender can ask any or all of the other players to become 
allies. A player does not have to become an ally if asked. Allies can commit as many units as they wish. The Attacker and 
Defenders can ask the same player for assistance. 
 
A player cannot join as an ally unless invited, and a player cannot be both an offensive and defensive ally in the same 
Attack Phase. One Defender can ally with another. Potential allies do not have to state their intentions until they send 
units: you can remain silent or lie about your intentions. 
 
A player can demand one Water token from each player with whom she is allying in return for a promise to commit at 
least one unit to that player's battle. A player who accepts a Water token must send at least one unit to assist her ally. All 
offensive and defensive allies return home bowed after battle. 
 
In battles involving allies, each army can only play one action at a time. When one army plays an action, it can be from the 
ally or the Attacker/Defender, but not both. Then the opposing army gets to play an action. 
 

The Attacker/Defender decides which cards in his or her army to sacrifice to absorb damage, but the ally decides whether 
or not he or she discards to help absorb damage. All actions, including engagements, on the cards in the battle must be 
played by the controlling player. Thus, allies can only engage their own units. 
 
II. Ground Maneuvers Segment 
 
There are two basic types of units: Ground and Flying. A unit is Ground unless its members have the Flying trait. A Hero 
and all attached Followers must have the Flying trait to make up a Flying unit. 
 
The Attacker chooses the units to perform Ground attacks and names the City Section each unit attacks. Multiple units 
can attack and defend a City Section. 
 
Once the Attacker assigns Ground units, other players can declare themselves offensive allies, if invited to do so by the 
Attacker in the Declaration Segment. Starting with the player on the Attacker's left, each player chooses to either send 
units or pass. 
 
Every offensive ally assigns one or more Ground units to attack, declaring which City Section each unit is attacking. An 
ally can assign Flying units now or wait to do so during the Flying Maneuvers Segment. If an ally who accepted a Water 
token does not declare a Ground unit now, she must declare a Flying unit during the Flying Maneuvers Segment. 
 
Example: During the Day Phase, Jabaar declares an attack against Aziz. Jabaar and Aziz both ask Habib for assistance. 
Habib demands a Water token from Aziz, who pays it. Jabaar assigns Khitai and Janan Barakah to attack Aziz's Secret 
Wall. Jabar then assigns Argoun to attack Aziz's Jewel of the Desert. Jabaar has finished assigning his Ground units. 
Jabaar has no allies to assist him, but if he did, they would assign their units now. 
 
Once all Ground attacks have been declared, the Defender brings Ground units into the battles to defend his City 
Sections. The Defender must indicate which City Section each unit will defend. He can assign units to City Sections 
whether they are being attacked or not, to be prepared for surprises. 
 
Any player wishing to ally with the Defender then follows the same procedure, assigning one or more units to defend 
City Sections belonging to the Defender. Flying units can also assign now. 
 
Example: Aziz does not assign any Ground units to defend his Secret Wall, but he does send Bonepicker to defend Jewel 
of the Desert against Jabaar's Argoun. Habib, who must assign at least one unit to the defense because he accepted Aziz's 
Water token, sends his Eye of Night to defend Aziz's Secret Wall. 
 
III. Flying Maneuvers Segment 
 
The Flying Maneuvers Segment immediately follows the Ground Maneuvers Segment and is conducted in exactly the 
same way. Only Flying units can be assigned to attack or defend in this Segment. This is the last chance for a player to 
declare an alliance with either side, by assigning a Flying unit to attack or defend a City Section. 
 
Example: Abdul assigns his Jinn of Desire to attack the Secret Wall. On the defending side, Aziz has no flying units to 
assign, so assignment is passed to Habib. Habib sends his al-Hazaad to defend at the Secret Wall. 
 
IV. Battle Action Segment 
 
Once units commit to combat, the battles begin. The units of the Attacker and his allies are the attacking army. The units 
of the Defender and his allies are the defending army. The Attacker must assign at least one unit to one City Section. The 
Defender does not have to defend. Once a unit commits to a battle, it cannot move to another battle without using a card 
effect. 
 
A battle takes place at each of the Defender's City Sections whether any units are assigned to it or not; some cards allow 
actions to affect battles without declared Attackers or Defenders. Each battle resolves with a different Battle Action 
Segment; the Attacker determines the order in which the battles resolve. 
 
Beginning with the Defender, each player can take one of three actions in the Battle Action Segment: 
 
1.) Play a Battle or Open action. If you do not have a unit in the battle, you cannot take any Open or Battle actions, 
including playing an Omen. The only exceptions to this rule are cards that allow you to bring a unit into the battle, such 
as Flying Carpet. (This rule only applies to Battle and Open actions; if the trigger event for a Reaction occurs, you can play 
the Reaction no matter where your units are.) Omens take effect when played. Any Omen that is replaced by another 
Omen is destroyed. Battle Omens are destroyed at the end of battle. 
 

2.) As a Battle action, bow cards in a unit you control at that battle to engage the opposing army. (See "Engaging the 
Enemy" below.) 
 
3.) Bow an unbowed Hero you control, including Followers and Items, to return that unit Home. 
 
A player can pass for his turn without taking an action. If all players pass consecutively, the battle ends (see "End of 
Battle"). 
 
Engaging the Enemy 
To destroy an opposing army or City Section in a battle, your Heroes must engage. To engage, you select a Hero that you 
control in the battle to charge the opposing army. As a Battle action, announce to your opponent that this Hero is 
engaging, and bow the Hero. The Strength of the engaging Hero is the amount of damage that the opposing army must 
absorb. (See "Absorbing Damage in Battle" below.) 
 
A Hero and his Followers can engage as a unit, forcing the opposing army to absorb damage equal to the total Strength of 
the cards bowed. Although Followers can engage simultaneously with their attached Hero, they do not have to. They can 
engage individually or with other Followers in their unit. 
 
Absorbing Damage in a Battle 
When your opponent engages cards to inflict damage, you must absorb that damage by destroying cards in your army, 
Water tokens on the City Section under attack, or the City Section itself. A destroyed card absorbs damage equal to its 
Strength. Each Water token you destroy absorbs 1 point of damage. Destroying the City Section absorbs all the damage. 
 
Example: Your army consists of a 1-Strength Hero, a 2-Strength Hero, and a 3-Strength Hero. Saladin, your mortal enemy, 
engages a 4-Strength Hero. Your army must absorb 4 or more points of damage. To absorb the damage, you can sacrifice 
your 1- and 3-Strength Heroes, your 2- and 3-Strength Heroes, 4 Water tokens from the City Section under attack, the City 
Section itself, or any combination of cards and Water tokens so that the total damage absorbed is equal to or greater than 
the damage inflicted. 
 
All the Water tokens attached to a City Section must be destroyed before the City Section is destroyed. Any cards or 
tokens attached to a destroyed City Section are Buried. 
 
Any card with Strength greater than the initial engaging damage are immune to the attack. You need not destroy such a 
card, even if you cannot absorb all of the engaged damage. In addition, Followers that are immune to the engaging 
damage provide the same immunity to their Hero. This immunity is purely optional, so if you'd like to sacrifice one of 
these cards, you can. 
 
Example: This time, you attack Saladin with a 2-Strength Hero and a 5-Strength Hero. Saladin defends with a 4-Strength 
Hero and engages that Hero as his first action. If you decide to absorb the damage with your Heroes, you need only lose 
your 2-Strength Hero, although you could sacrifice your 5-Strength Hero to save your 2-Strength Hero. 
 
Sometimes you might not want to lose all of your Heroes to one engaging card. You can reduce your losses by sacrificing 
one or more Heroes and discarding cards from your hand, using their Fate values to absorb the damage. You must 
sacrifice one Hero for each card you discard in this manner. 
 
Example: You attack Saladin again, this time with three 2-Strength Heroes. He defends with a 5-Strength Hero and 
engages that Hero as his first action. Normally, you would lose all three of your Heroes to absorb the damage, but you 
decide to absorb some damage with a card from your hand. You give up one of your 2-Strength Heroes and discard a 3-
Fate-value card into your Saved pile to absorb the remaining damage: 2 Strength plus 3 Fate equals 5 points absorbed. 
 
End of Battle 
A battle ends after all players with units in the battle pass consecutively or after the City Section is destroyed. When battle 
ends, attacking and allying units return Home bowed. Defending units return Home in their current orientation (bowed 
or unbowed). After all battles at the Defender's City Sections resolve, the attack ends. 
 
3. Night Phase 
 
Players perform unscrupulous deeds during the Night Phase. Beginning with the Blessed player and going clockwise, 
each player takes an action from the list below (in any order) or passes. Take turns performing things from this list until 
all players pass consecutively, at which point the Night Phase ends. 
 
Perform a Night or Open action. 
Once per turn, declare a Raid (see "Raiding" and "Raiding Steps" below). 
Pay 3 Water to return a Hero with the Khadi trait to play, bowed, from your Buried pile. 
 

 
Raiding 
Water is life. It controls the cards you bring into play and your defensive capacity. There comes a time in every game 
when you simply don't have enough Water to satisfy your needs. Since your opponent has Water, why not sneak in at 
night and take some from him? Your Heroes carry Water tokens away from a successful raid. Raiding only happens in the 
Night Phase. You do not have to raid. 
 
Raiding Steps 
 
There are four steps to Raiding: 
 
I. Declaring a Raid Phase 
 
II. Assigning Raiding Units 
 
III. Assigning Defending Units 
 
IV. Resolving the Raid 
 
I. Declaring a Raid Phase 
 
First, you declare your intention to raid an opposing player or players. You can raid more than one player at a time. 
 
II. Assigning Raiding Units 
 
Next, you assign one unbowed Hero to each City Section you want to Raid. You do not have to raid all of a player's City 
Sections. You cannot raid a City Section that has already been targeted for a raid this turn. When you assign a raiding 
unit, you must place one card from your hand face-down on it. The focus value of that card is your raiding Fate value. 
 
III. Assigning Defending Units 
 
After the raiding units have been assigned, each player being raided can assign one unbowed Hero to defend each of the 
City Sections being raided. As the Defender assigns each defending unit, he must place one card from his hand face-up on 
it. The Fate value of the card is the defending Fate value. 
 
IV. Resolving the Raid 
 
In the last step, reveal the raiding Fate value and compare it to the defending Fate value. If the raiding Fate value is higher 
than the defending Fate value-or higher than the City Section's Base Strength if there is no defending unit-the raid 
succeeds. The Raider takes one Water token from the raided City Section and places it on the raiding Hero. In an 
unsuccessful raid, no Water tokens are taken. 
 
Discard the Fate value cards and return all raiding units Home bowed, regardless of success. Defending units return 
Home without bowing. 
 
4. End Phase 
 
Any players without Water tokens attached to any of their cards are eliminated from the game. If more than one player 
does not have any Water tokens, start eliminating Waterless players beginning with the Blessed player and going 
clockwise. 
 
Your maximum hand size is four cards plus one card for each City Section you control. Draw four cards, then discard to 
your maximum hand size. 
 
Redistribute any Water tokens from your Heroes to your City Sections as you see fit. Any Water tokens that you cannot 
place on City Sections are lost at the end of this Phase. The Blessed player passes the Caliph's Blessing to the player on his 
left, who becomes the Blessed player for the next turn. 
 
Actions 
There are five types of actions: Battle, Day, Night, Open, and Reaction. Actions take the form of either text following 
action indicators, such as "Battle:", or Action cards. Play Action cards from your hand. 
 
All actions except Reactions must resolve before another action can be played. For instance, you cannot use an Open 
action to raise the Ka of a Hero on his way into a duel caused by an earlier action. 
 

If two players' actions have timing conflicts, the Blessed player's action takes precedence. Each other player then acts in 
turn order. During the Battle Action Segment, the Defender goes first. 
 
Some action subtypes, such as Omens and Council actions, have special rules for play and costs. 
 
Battle Actions 
You can only use these actions (those prefaced by the keyword Battle) during the Battle Action Segment of the Attack 
Phase. While the battle at a City Section resolves, all Open actions (see below) and Battle actions must either: 
 
come from a card or token at the battle; 
move a card or token into the battle; or 
target or affect one of the following: a card in the battle, a token in the battle, a player with units in the battle, 
the Defender, the Attacker, or the City Section under attack. 
 
 
Day Actions 
You can only use Day actions (those prefaced by the keyword Day) during the Day Phase. 
 
Night Actions 
You can only use Night actions (those prefaced by the keyword Night) during the Night Phase. 
 
Open Actions 
Any player can use Open actions (those prefaced by the keyword Open) during the Day Phase, the Night Phase, or a 
Battle Action Segment, as long as that player can legally take an action. 
 
Reactions 
Reactions (actions prefaced by the keyword Reaction) interrupt other actions. They are not restricted to an action phase 
like other actions; instead, a Reaction has an action to which it "reacts." It must be played immediately in response to a 
declared action and cannot be played after the action resolves or another action has been declared. 
 
To play a Reaction that affects another action, announce that you are doing so immediately after the player using that 
action announces it. After you play an action, including a Reaction, all players can play Reactions in turn, beginning with 
the person on your left. All players can produce Reactions in turn until everybody passes consecutively. 
 
If a Reaction redirects, nullifies, or alters the attributes of the target of an interrupted action so that the target no longer 
meets the requirements of the interrupted action, the interrupted action has no effect. Playing a Reaction is not considered 
an "action" for determining the order of playing actions. 
 
Example: Aziz, during a battle, targets Habib's al-Hazaad and announces that he's using this innate ability on his Takiyah: 
"Open: Bow Takiyah to attach a -1S/-1K token to another Hero until the end of the turn." Each player can then react to the 
action. Jabaar passes, but Habib plays Alim's Charm of Protection, which reads: "Reaction: Play immediately after a Spell 
or innate ability has been cast that targets one of your Heroes. The spell or innate ability is negated." Abdul can then react, 
but he passes. Aziz and Jabaar also pass consecutively, so the reaction phase for the Spell ends. The Spell is negated. 
Aziz's action has been resolved, and it's the next player's (Jabaar's) turn to play an action. 
 
Omens 
Some actions have the Omen trait. An Omen is played like a normal action, but if another Omen is already in play, the 
previous Omen is destroyed, even if it is a Battle Omen. Omens take effect immediately. You cannot play an Omen at a 
battle in which you have no units unless that Omen moves a unit into the battle. A Battle Omen is destroyed at the end of 
the battle in which it's played. 
 
Council Actions 
To bring a Council action into play, you must fulfill its Influence requirement by bowing Hero and Stronghold cards you 
have in play so that their combined Influence meets or exceeds the requirement. 
 
Bonuses and Tokens 
Many cards in Legend of the Burning Sands allow you to give bonuses to other cards. These bonuses are often in the form 
#S/#K, where the #s are the changes to a Hero's Strength and Ka. For instance, a -1S/+1K token would give the targeted 
Hero -1 Strength and +1 Ka. If a negative modifier to a card drops the value below 0, the value is considered to be 0 
instead. All bonuses and penalties accumulate and are recalcuated as needed. 
 
Some bonuses come in the form of tokens. A card can have many kinds of tokens on it at once. You cannot move tokens 
between cards or destroy tokens without special card effects that allow you to do so. Unless text restricts a token's 
placement, you can place any token on any Hero. Cards that are discarded or destroyed lose all attached tokens. If an 
effect mentions neither a token nor the word "permanent," it expires at the end of your turn. 

 
Permanent Changes 
Some cards make "permanent" changes to other cards. A permanent change to a card is not a token. It stays with the card 
until the end of the game, even if the card is discarded or destroyed. A permanent change to a card does not affect other 
copies of the same card. If the text of an effect neither mentions a token nor contains the word "permanent," it expires at 
the end of the turn. 
 
Challenges and Duels 
Some cards permit one Hero to challenge another. When you play a card that creates a challenge, select an unbowed Hero 
you control and a Hero controlled by another player. The other player can decide to refuse the challenge; if he does, 
nothing happens. If the challenge is accepted, a duel ensues. 
 
Once a challenge is thrown down, it is too late to use any actions (other than appropriate Reactions) to increase or 
decrease a Hero's stats. Like any other action, the challenge must be completely resolved before any other actions can be 
taken. 
 
Once the challenge has been issued and accepted, a duel begins. This is the only point at which Reactions referring to a 
Hero who "is entering a duel" can be produced. 
 
Both players announce their Heroes' Ka values. A Hero's Ka is the value in the upper right corner of the card, plus any 
effects in play, plus Ka bonuses added by any attached cards with "+X" bonuses. If a card becomes involved in a duel for 
which it has no printed stat, it is considered to have a 0 in that stat. 
 
Thrusting 
The challenged Hero begins the duel by thrusting. To thrust, place a card from your hand face-down. You do not have to 
thrust in a duel. If a player does not thrust, he passes and his opponent can thrust. 
 
Parrying 
When a thrust is played, the opposing player must parry by drawing and playing face-up the top card from his deck or 
playing a card from his hand face-up. Parries played from your deck are Buried, unlike parries from your hand or thrusts, 
which are Saved after use. Although you can parry from your deck, you cannot thrust from it. 
 
Resolving a Round of Dueling 
After the parry card is played, reveal the thrust card. Compare the Fate value of the parry card to that of the thrust card. If 
the parry value is different than the thrust value, the Defender subtracts the difference from his Hero's Ka. (If the parry 
value is greater than the thrust value, the Defender over-extended his defense). The loss of Ka lasts until the end of the 
duel. If the parry value equals the thrust value, the defending Hero takes no damage. 
 
After a parry card is played and both cards are discarded or Buried, the Defender now becomes the Attacker and can play 
a thrust card or pass. The Attacker becomes the Defender, and so on. When a Hero is reduced to 0 Ka, that Hero loses the 
duel. 
 
If neither Hero has lost the duel by the time both players have consecutively passed their opportunity to play a thrust 
card, compare the Heroes' Kas. The Hero with the higher Ka wins the duel. In the case of a tie, both Heroes suffer the 
loser's fate. Unless otherwise noted on the card, the loser of a duel is destroyed and the winner is unaffected. Ka lost in a 
duel is restored after duel resolution. 
 
Example: Round 1 
 
Rashat, with 4 Ka, challenges Nemet, with 3 Ka. Nemet begins the duel by playing a 
 
2-Fate-value thrust card face-down. Rashat parries blindly from his deck and pulls a 
 
2-Fate-value card. When Nemet reveals her card, Rashat takes no damage, but his parry card is Buried. 
 
Rashat now plays his thrust card, with a Fate value of 3, face-down. Nemet defends by playing a 4-Fate-value parry card 
from her hand. Because her parry card's Fate value is 1 greater than the thrust card, she loses 1 Ka. 
 
Example: Round 2 
 
Rashat now has 4 Ka, Nemet 2. Nemet plays a 5-Fate-value thrust card face-down. Rashat takes a gamble and parries with 
the top card from his deck instead of using one from his hand. He pulls a 1-Fate-value card and takes 4 points of damage. 
He loses and is destroyed because now has 0 Ka. The duel ends and Nemet's Ka returns to its usual value of 3. 
 
Destroyed Cards 

Destroyed cards go to their owner's Buried pile. If a Hero is destroyed, so are his entire unit and his tokens. Effects that 
would have been produced by a Hero had he survived do not take effect. 
 
Any Omen that is replaced by another Omen is destroyed. Battle Omens are destroyed after battle. 
 
Influence 
Your Stronghold and Heroes all have Influence values. Influence is the political and charismatic sway an entity has over 
the people of the city. 
 
Special Card Traits 
Many cards list traits that indicate their advantages and restrictions in comparison to other cards. These usually appear in 
the first line of the text box. 
 
Archery (+X) 
Some Heroes and Followers have the Archery trait. When these cards engage, their controller can choose the card in the 
opposing army to absorb the damage. Only one card can be targeted in this fashion per use of the Archery talent, and any 
extra damage is lost. Multiple Archery cards in a unit can bow together for this effect. You cannot target a Hero with 
attached Followers until you destroy all of the Followers. If a player does not use the Archery trait to engage the opposing 
army, the opposing player absorbs the damage as he wishes, as usual. You cannot use Archery to target a City Section or 
the Water tokens on a City Section. 
 
Sometimes the term "Archery" on a card is followed by a modifier (e.g., +1, +2, -1). This modifier adjusts the card's 
Strength when it uses Archery. 
 
Berserk 
Some Heroes and Followers have the Berserk trait. When a Hero or unit with the Berserk trait engages the opposing 
army, the opposing player cannot use cards from her hand to absorb damage; she must absorb all damage with the cards 
and tokens in the battle. 
 
Carry +X 
A Hero normally carries one Water token away from a successful raid. This trait increases the number of Water tokens 
carried away from a successful raid by X. 
 
Duelist 
A Hero with the Duelist trait can increase his parry value by 1 after the thrust card is revealed. 
 
Experienced Heroes 
The storyline of Legend of the Burning Sands progresses over time, and this is reflected in changes in the expansion sets. 
The Experienced trait represents the changes that some Heroes undergo during the story. 
 
If you have an earlier version of an Experienced Hero in play and the Experienced version in your hand, you can lay the 
Experienced version on top of the earlier version during the Day Phase without paying Water costs, for 2 Copper. The 
Experienced version keeps all of the attached cards, tokens, and abilities of the card it overlays, but the stats and traits of 
the Experienced version override the stats and traits of the inexperienced version. You cannot "underlay" an earlier 
version of a Hero under an Experienced version of the same card. 
 
Flying 
If a Hero and all attached Followers have the Flying trait, the unit can commit during the Flying Maneuvers Segment of 
the Attack Phase. If a Follower or the Hero does not have the Flying trait, the unit is considered Ground and must commit 
during the Ground Maneuvers Segment of the Attack Phase. 
 
Khadi 
The controller of a destroyed Hero with the Khadi trait can return that Hero to play in the End Phase by paying 3 Water. 
The Khadi Hero is bowed. 
 
Raid +X, -X 
This trait changes the Fate value you play in a raid by X. 
 
Sahir 
Sahir are Heroes sklled in the mystical arts. You must bow a Sahir you control to cast a Spell. The abilities of Sahir are 
called innate abilities. 
 
Tactician 
A Hero with the Tactician trait allows her controlling player to play a card from his hand as a Battle action once per battle. 
The player adds the card's Fate value to the Hero's Strength until the turn ends. 

 
Targeting and Redirection 
When an action specifies a target, or when you must choose among cards, tokens, players, or City Sections, you are 
"targeting" the card, token, player, or City Section with the action. When you target something, first choose the target of 
the action, then perform the action. You can target your own bowed cards with actions. 
 
An action that requires a target is the only type of action that can be redirected (e.g., with the Tale of the Stolen Heart). If 
the action designates the thing it affects without allowing a choice on the part of the player taking the action, the action 
cannot be redirected. For example, a card that targets "your deck" or "the Stronghold of the player on your right" falls 
under this rule. It is possible to redirect an action more than once. Should an action be redirected, the new target is 
considered to be the target of that action. No action can be redirected to something it couldn't target in the first place. 
 
Undead 
Undead Heroes and Followers are Non-Human. Undead Heroes cannot raid. 
 
Glossary 
 
Advisor 
 
A special kind of Holding that represents a member of your Faction with special abilities. An Advisor is not a Hero. 
 
army 
 
All the units involved in the attack or defense of a City Section. 
 
attach 
 
Put a Follower, Item, or Fortification into play from a your hand. 
 
battle 
 
The combat between attacking and defending armies. 
 
Blessed player 
 
The player currently controlling the Caliph's Blessing. 
 
bow 
 
Turn a card to indicate that it is in use and cannot perform another action. 
 
Buried pile 
 
Cards that are destroyed or killed, placed face-up. 
 
Caliph's Blessing 
 
The possession of the player who takes the first action in each Phase of a turn. 
 
City Section 
 
A card that represents your spheres of influence and resources in the city. You are eliminated from the game if you lose 
all of your City Sections. 
 
committal 
 
The process of bringing units into an attack. Only units led by unbowed Heroes can be committed to an attack or defense. 
 
destroyed 
 
Sent to the Buried discard pile from play. A destroyed Hero has all of his attached cards and tokens destroyed. When a 
City Section is destroyed, it no longer exists and cannot be attacked again. 
 
discarded 
 

Placed in the Saved discard pile face-up, to the right of your deck. 
 
discarded from play 
 
Removed from play and put in the owner's Saved discard pile. A card discarded from play is treated as if it had never 
been in play. 
 
deck 
 
All the cards you use to play, except your Stronghold and City Sections. 
 
Duelist 
 
A trait allowing its Hero to increase his parry Fate value by +1 immediately after a thrust is revealed in a duel. 
 
face-down 
 
The status of all cards in a player's deck and hand and facing the table. 
 
Fate value 
 
The number at the bottom of all of your cards. 
 
Flying 
 
A trait that, if possessed by a Hero and all attached Follower cards, allows the unit to commit during the Flying 
Maneuvers Segment of the Attack Phase. 
 
Fortification 
 
A card that attaches to a City Section when brought into play. 
 
Ground 
 
The default combat trait for Heroes and Followers. A unit is considered Ground and assigns during the Ground 
Maneuvers Segment unless the Hero and all attached Followers are Flying. 
 
hand 
 
The cards drawn from the deck but not yet put into play. Cards in a player's hand are considered "face-down." 
 
Hero 
 
A leader hired by your Faction to further your goals in the city. 
 
Home 
 
The area of the table where the Stronghold and Holdings are kept. 
 
Influence 
 
A value that represents the political influence a character has in the City of One Thousand Stories. 
 
innate ability 
 
A Day, Night, Open, Battle, or Reaction effect that a sahir can produce without using a Spell card. 
 
in turn 
 
The way players normally play, usually decided by seating position and the standard clockwise progression of the game. 
 
Jinn 
 
A creature of "smokeless fire" that is usually summoned into play by a Hero with the Sahir trait. Jinn are Non-Human. 
 

Ka 
 
The inner strength and instincts of a Hero. A Hero is killed if his Ka drops to 0. This value is used for duels between 
Heroes. 
 
Khadi 
 
One of the heartless sorcerers who serves the Caliph. 
 
Military Victory 
 
Winning the game by eliminating all other players. 
 
Omen 
 
A card that affects the entire play environment while it is in play. Only one Omen can be in play at a time. 
 
opposing units 
 
The units in the army you are fighting against in a battle. 
 
parry card 
 
A card placed face-up in a duel, after a thrust. 
 
raid 
 
Steal Water tokens from another player. 
 
Sahir 
 
A spellcaster. 
 
Saved pile 
 
Cards that are used or discarded, placed face-up. 
 
Story Victory 
 
Winning the game by bringing at least 5 points of Story cards into play. 
 
Straighten 
 
Turn a card to indicate that it is no longer bowed and is ready to perform an action. 
 
Stronghold 
 
The representation of your Faction on the back of your box and on a card. 
 
Tactician 
 
A Hero who, as a Battle action, allows you to discard a card from your hand to raise her Strength by the card's Fate value. 
You can do this once per battle. 
 
thrust card 
 
A card placed face-down in a duel. 
 
turn 
 
An entire sequence of events from the beginning of the Dawn Phase to the end of the End Phase. 
 
Undead Hero 
 
The body of a human or inhuman creature re-animated after death. 

 
Unique card 
 
A card of which only one copy can be in play at any given time. You can have up to three copies of a Unique card in your 
deck. 
 
unit 
 
A Hero and all attached cards. 
 
"your" 
 
Controlled by you. Cards that started out in your deck and have since been kidnapped by other players no longer qualify 
as "your" cards, even though you still own them and get them back at the end of the game. 
 
Errata 
 
These errors were not caught in time to alter the cards: 
 
al-Hazaad 
 
Should read "Carpets can be attached..." 
 
Fields of Rolling Grain 
 
Should read "...without bowing." 
 
Khadi Justice 
 
Should read "...if a Khadi is in play." 
 
Moto Oasis 
 
Should read "...of any Advanced City in play." 
 
Nizam 
 
Should read "Nizam cannot cast spells..." 
 
Takiyah 
 
This card is not an Omen. 
 
 
Credits 
Original Concept David Seay, Ryan S. Dancey, John Zinser 
 
Initial Design & Story Concepts Greg Stolze, Ross Isaacs, Steve Swarner 
 
Lead Designer Raymond Lau 
 
Art Direction KC Lancaster 
 
Story Design and Flavor Text Patrick Kapera, 
 
Jim Pinto, Ree Soesbee, John Wick 
 
Design Team David Williams, 
 
DJ Trindle, Erik Yaple, Robin Lake 
 
Additional Design Luke Peterschmidt, Ryan S. Dancey, Scott Magner 
 
Conceptual Graphic Design Cris Dornaus, Paul Allen Timm, Steven Hough 
 

Editing D.J. Trindle, Jessica Beaven 
 
VP NBD&L Rich Fukutaki 
 
Brand Management Luke Peterschmidt, Ryan S. Dancey 
 
AEG Project Administrator Maureen Yates 
 
Creative Director Al Skaar 
 
Packaging Design Blake Beasley 
 
Card Typesetting/Layout Paul Allen Timm 
 
Card Art: Anson Maddocks, Anthony Grabski, April Lee, Ben Peck, Bryon Wackwitz, CH Burnett, Chris Arneson, Craig 
Maher, David Monette, Diana Vick, Eric Anderson, Eric Polak, Frank Gemeck Jr., Heather Bruton, Jim Pavelec, Randy 
Asplund-Faith, Rob Alexander, Susan Van Camp, Theodore Black, Theresa Brandon, Thomas Gianni, Tim Gerstmar, 
Tommy Pons 
 
Playtesters: Justin Berman, Jarrett Chaiken, Asif Chaudry, Eric Devlin, Colin Edwards, Curtis Enoksen, Marty Fenelon, 
Ben Handy, Peter Hartman, Jennifer Hastings, Allison Heimbach, Sean Harvey, Mark Jerome, Bob Jordan, Joe Keyser, 
Robert Kramer, Mike Maners, Ian McGuigan, Andy Morris, Neal Steed, Joe Keyser, Robert Owens, Jon Palmer, Al Parks, 
Serge Pierro, Dion Rigdon, Michael Schilder, Paul Stachel, Micah Swafford, Matt Turnquist, Elliot Wong, Joe Zakszewski 
 
"Emerald Empire," Legend of the Burning Sands, the Legend of the Burning Sands logo, "Shadow of the Tyrant," the 
"Shadow of the Tyrant" logo, and all related marks, names, and characters are (tm) and (c) 1995-1998 by Five Rings 
Publishing Group. All rights reserved. Card illustrations are (c) 1998 by the credited artists. Game design by Alderac 
Entertainment Group. Produced by Five Rings Publishing Group, a division of Wizards of the Coast. 
 
© 2001 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved.