TM

An Empire in Turmoil...
“There! Do you see that?” Doji Kuwanan’s armor, 
lacquered in the blue and silver colors of the Crane 
Clan, clinked as he pointed to the thin column of dust 
rising along the horizon where plains met sky. 
His patrol partner, Takeaki, shielded his eyes from the 
bright glare of the sun and squinted. “A merchant’s 
cart? The spring rains are late this year,” he said, kicking 
up dust of his own under his armored zori sandals.
Around them, birdsong mixed with the chants and 
drumming of the peasants as they rhythmically tilled the 
soil and spread seeds atop the furrowed earth. A cool 
breeze brought the earthy smell of fertilizer to the pair of 
samurai warriors and sent ripples across the plains.
Kuwanan shook his head. “There’s too much dust for 
a single cart. And no caravan’s due for weeks yet.” He 
hurried atop the nearby arched bridge to get a better 
look. A blur of dark brown silhouettes emerged from 
behind a gently sloping hill, speeding toward them.
“Quiet!” Kuwanan bellowed at the farmers, who ceased 
their dance of sowing and planting in an instant. The 
distant thunder of galloping hooves soon overtook the 
sound of chattering birds, and Takeaki muttered a curse.
“Someone’s coming! Get back to the village!” Kuwanan 
shouted, and the peasants scrambled up to the road. 
He and Takeaki strung their bows and took up defensive 
positions atop the bridge. “If the Lion are finally 
mounting an attack, let them try to take this village from 
us!” He nocked an arrow and prepared to take aim.
Game Overview
Legend of the Five Rings: The Card Game is a two-
player game in which each player takes the role of one 
of the seven Great Clans of Rokugan. In the game, 
players vie for political and military dominance while 
simultaneously observing the strict codes of conduct 
that preserve their honor. Each player commands their 
forces from two different decks: a dynasty deck that 
fills their provinces with characters and holdings, and a 
conflict deck consisting of tactics, maneuvers, and tricks 
that can be used to turn the tide of a conflict.
During a game, players engage in conflicts against their 
opponent’s provinces in an attempt to break them. 
The first player to break the province that holds their 
opponent’s stronghold wins the game. However, the 
players must also monitor their honor as they contest 
one another, for it is possible for a player to win by 
achieving a high degree of honor, or to run out of honor 
and shamefully lose the game.
Dynasty Card Back
Conflict Card Back

Using this Book
This Learn to Play book is written as an introduction to 
Legend of the Five Rings: The Card Game. It should 
be used as a guide for new players while learning and 
playing the first game. The first part of this book takes 
players through an entire game round, teaching the 
rules and introducing the strategy of the game along 
the way.
After players have learned the basics of the game, they 
will be ready to enrich their experience by building their 
own original decks. The rules for doing so are included 
on page 18.
The latter part of this book contains an introduction to 
the Rokugan setting and the seven Great Clans featured 
in this core set. Finally, three appendices are included as 
a reference for a number of advanced topics, frequently 
asked questions, and card anatomies.
A comprehensive Rules Reference can be found 
online at www.fantasyflightgames.com/L5R. That 
document addresses more advanced topics such as 
the interpretation of card text, the resolution of timing 
conflicts, and a detailed phase sequence timing chart. 
It is recommended that new players become familiar 
with the game using the Learn to Play book and only 
look up details in the Rules Reference as they occur 
during play.
A Living Card Game
Legend of the Five Rings: The Card 
Game is a two-player game that can be 
played using just the contents of this 
core set.
In addition, Legend of the Five Rings: 
The Card Game is a Living Card Game® 
(LCG®). Its experience can be customized 
and enhanced through the purchase of 
regularly released 60-card expansions 
called Dynasty Packs. Unlike collectible 
card games, all LCG expansions 
have a fixed distribution: there is no 
randomization to their contents.

Dial Assembly
Assemble each honor dial by using the 
plastic dial connectors to attach the 
dial to the faceplate, as shown in the 
diagram below.
 ©2017 FFG 220A
1
Imperial Favor
ILLUS. DARREN TAN
Reaction: After you lose a  conflict – put this 
character into play from your hand.
“When a samurai has said he will perform an action, it is as 
good as done.” – Akodo’s Leadership
Vengeful Oathkeeper
 ©2017 FFG 219B
Air – The attacking player takes 
1 honor token from his or her 
opponent, or gains 2 honor.
Earth – The attacking player draws 
1 card from his or her conflict deck 
and discards 1 card at random from 
his or her opponent’s hand.
Fire – The attacking player chooses 
a character in play and honors or 
dishonors that character.
Water – The attacking player either 
chooses a character and readies it, or 
chooses a character with no fate on it 
and bows it.
Void – The attacking player may 
choose a character and remove 
1 fate from it.

Military

Political
Conflict Ring Effects
 ©2017 FFG 214A
Keeper of Air
Increase your deckbuilding influence value by 3.
Reaction: After you win an  conflict as the 
defending player – gain 1 fate.
Keeper. Air.
Components
The components in the game are presented here for 
identification purposes. A complete card anatomy 
can be found in “Appendix III: Card Anatomy” on 
page 32.
7 Stronghold Cards
117 Dynasty Cards 
98 Conflict Cards
17 Province Cards
20 Status Tokens 
40 Fate Tokens
50 Honor Tokens
5 Ring Tokens 
1 First Player Token
2 Honor Dials
1 Imperial Favor 
 Card (double-sided)
5 Role Cards 
2 Reference Cards 

Ready and Bowed
Cards enter play in a ready position (upright, so that 
the card’s text may be read from left to right). At the 
end of a conflict, or in order to use certain card abilities, 
cards will bow, which is indicated by rotating a card 90 
degrees (sideways). A bowed card indicates that a card 
has been used, and a card is not able to bow again until 
it is readied by a game step or card ability.
Fate
Fate is the game’s primary resource, 
representing the karma and destiny a 
clan has accrued. The primary use of 
fate is to spend it to play cards.
In addition, after a character is played, its controller 
may place any additional number of fate tokens from 
their fate pool on that character. Each fate token on a 
character allows that character to remain in play for an 
additional game round.
During the fate phase (see”Phase 4: Fate” on page 
16) each character that has no fate tokens on it is 
discarded. One fate token is then removed from each 
remaining character.
In Player Order
The phrase “in player order” is used to dictate the 
order in which players resolve or execute a game step. 
When players are instructed to do something in player 
order, the first player does so first, followed by the 
other player.
Triggered Card Abilities
Many card abilities (such as actions, interrupts, and 
reactions) are triggered voluntarily by the players 
throughout the game. Unless an ability specifies 
otherwise, it may be used once each round. For more on 
card abilities, see page 29.
Key Concepts
This section introduces a number of foundational 
concepts to keep in mind while learning and playing 
The Jade Rule
If the text on a card directly contradicts the text of the 
rules, the text on the card takes precedence.
Winning and Defeat
There are three ways by which a player can win the 
game: break the province which holds their opponent’s 
stronghold, accumulate 25 honor, or have their 
opponent run out of honor.
Provinces and Strongholds
A player’s province cards represent a variety of 
circumstances and occurrences in the lands under the 
control of the Great Clans of Rokugan.
During the game, players declare attacks against one 
another’s provinces, and successful attacks can result in 
a province breaking.
If three of a player’s four non-stronghold provinces are 
broken, attacks may be declared against that player’s 
stronghold province. As soon as a player’s stronghold 
province is broken, that player loses the game.
Honor and Dishonor 
Honor represents both the behavior of 
a player’s clan, as well as the outward 
perception of that behavior. Players begin 
the game with the amount of honor 
designated by their stronghold card. 
Various effects in the game cause honor to be gained, 
exchanged between players, or lost. If a player has 25 
or more honor in their pool, that player immediately 
wins. If a player has no honor in their pool, that player 
immediately loses.
Ready
Bowed
Strategy: Break Their Provinces!
Within the core set, breaking an opponent’s 
provinces is the most common victory 
condition, and new players are advised to 
concentrate primarily on this method of 
winning while learning the basics of the game.

 ©2017 FFG 220A
1
Imperial Favor
Game Setup
To set up the game, perform the following steps, 
in order:
1. Select Decks
For the first game, each player selects one set of starter 
decks described below. Each card’s collector number, 
which is used in the decklists below, is located in the 
lower right corner of the card.
◊Crane Clan starter decks: This deck uses Shizuka 
Toshi (2) as its stronghold, and the provinces The 
Art of Peace (9), Entrenched Position (17), Night 
Raid (21), Rally to the Cause (23), and Shameful 
Display (24). 
 
The Crane dynasty deck uses all of the Crane 
dynasty cards (40–53), one copy each of the neutral 
cards Otomo Courtier (122), Miya Mystic (125), 
Favorable Ground (128), Imperial Storehouse (129), 
and two copies each of the neutral cards Seppun 
Guardsman (123) and Wandering Ronin (127). 
 
The Crane conflict deck uses all of the Crane conflict 
cards (139–148), and one copy each of the neutral 
cards (200–213).
◊Lion Clan starter decks: This deck uses Yōjin no 
Shiro (4) as its stronghold, and the provinces The 
Art of War (11), Ancestral Lands (15), Manicured 
Garden (19), Meditations on the Tao (20), and 
Pilgrimage (22). 
 
The Lion dynasty deck uses all of the Lion dynasty 
cards (67–80), one copy each of the neutral cards 
Seppun Guardsman (123), Wandering Ronin (127), 
Favorable Ground (128), Imperial Storehouse (129), 
and two copies each of the neutral cards Otomo 
Courtier (122) and Miya Mystic (125). 
 
The Lion conflict deck uses all of the Lion conflict 
cards (160–169), and one copy each of the neutral 
cards (200–213).
2. Create Token Pool and Ring Pool
Place all fate tokens, honor tokens, status tokens, and 
the Imperial Favor card in a pile within reach of each 
player. This area is known as the general token pool. 
Place the rings in a pile within reach of each player. This 
area is known as the unclaimed ring pool.
3. Determine First Player
Randomly select a player to be the first 
player. Place the first player token in 
front of this player. The other player 
gains 1 fate from the general token 
pool and adds it to their fate pool.
4. Shuffle Dynasty and Conflict 
Decks
Each player shuffles both their dynasty and conflict 
decks separately until the decks are sufficiently 
randomized and presents them to the opponent 
for a final cut. Each player then places their dynasty 
deck to the left of their play area and their conflict 
deck to the right.
5. Place Provinces and Stronghold
Each player secretly selects one of their provinces, 
places it facedown above their dynasty deck, and places 
their stronghold card on top of it. Each player then 
places their other four provinces facedown between 
their dynasty and conflict decks, in any order. Each 
player places one honor dial near their conflict deck.
6. Fill Provinces
Each player places one card from the 
top of their dynasty deck facedown 
onto each of their empty non-
stronghold provinces. Players will have 
the opportunity to play these cards from 
their provinces during the game round.
First Player 
Token
Dynasty Deck 
Cardback

 
Suggested Play Area (Crane Player, mid-game)
Non-Stronghold 
Provinces
Dynasty 
Deck
Conflict 
Deck
Dynasty 
Discard
Conflict 
Discard
Stronghold
Home Area
Fate Pool
Honor Pool and Honor Dial
Opponent’s Play Area
First Player 
Token
After placing these cards during setup, each player 
has one opportunity to look at their facedown cards, 
choose which ones they wish to keep, and replace the 
rest (known as a mulligan). Set aside the cards to be 
replaced and deal a new facedown card into each empty 
province. Then shuffle the replaced cards back into the 
dynasty deck.
Note: After this point, players are not permitted to look 
at facedown cards in their provinces.
7. Draw Starting Hand
Each player draws four cards from their 
conflict deck to form their starting hand. 
These cards are typically used during 
the conflict phase to help players 
win conflicts.
After drawing these cards, each player has one 
opportunity to look at the cards in their hand, choose 
which ones they wish to keep, and replace the rest 
(known as a mulligan). Set aside the cards to be 
replaced and draw an equivalent number of new cards 
from the conflict deck. Then shuffle the cards set aside 
back into the conflict deck.
8. Gain Starting Honor
Each player gains honor tokens equal to the honor value 
indicated in the lower left corner of their stronghold.
The game is now ready to begin.
Honor Value 
on Stronghold
Conflict Deck 
Cardback

Phase Sequence
Legend of the Five Rings: The Card Game is played 
over a series of rounds. During a round, players bring 
new characters into play from their provinces, decide 
how honorably they will act in the coming conflicts, 
declare military and political conflicts against one 
another’s provinces, check the fate of their characters, 
and regroup in preparation for the next round. Each 
round is divided into the following five phases:
1.	 Dynasty
2.	 Draw
3.	 Conflict
4.	 Fate
5.	 Regroup
Each phase is described in detail, below.
Phase 1: Dynasty
The dynasty phase represents the clans’ attempts to 
marshal their forces and allocate resources from 
their provinces. 
The dynasty phase consists of three steps:
Step 1. Reveal Facedown Cards in Provinces
Each player, in player order, turns all facedown dynasty 
cards in their provinces faceup. This process starts from 
a player’s leftmost province that has a facedown card on 
it and proceeds to the right. Note: Character cards in 
provinces are not yet in play, and players will not be able 
to use those characters until they are played during step 
3, below.
Step 2. Collect Fate
Each player collects fate equal to the fate value on their 
stronghold card. Other cards may also modify the amount 
of fate a player collects each turn.
Step 3. Play Characters from Provinces
In player order, players alternate opportunities to do 
one of the following: play a character card from their 
provinces, trigger an appropriate card ability (see page 
30), or pass. Note: At this time, a player cannot play 
attachment or character cards from their hand.
The first player to pass gains 1 fate. This player forfeits 
the opportunity to play characters from provinces or 
trigger actions for the remainder of the phase. The 
remaining player continues to play characters and 
trigger actions alone until they also pass. Once both 
players have passed, play proceeds to the draw phase.
Playing a Character from a Province
In order to play a character from a province, a player 
must first pay that card’s cost (indicated in the upper 
left corner of the card) by spending that much fate from 
their fate pool to the general token pool. Next, move 
that card from the province into that player’s home area 
– the part of the play area in front of their provinces. All 
characters enter play in a ready position.
After a character is played, its controller has the option 
of placing any number of fate tokens from their pool on 
that character. Placing fate on a character will keep that 
character in play for additional game rounds.
Card cost
Additional fate 
may be placed on 
a character after 
paying its cost.
Strategy: Placing Additional Fate
Placing additional fate on a character is an 
investment in that character’s future impact 
upon the game. The best way to leverage this 
impact is to invest in your most powerful and 
important characters. Placing three fate on a 
character with a cost of one grants you three 
additional turns of one-cost impact, while 
placing the same three fate on a character with 
a cost of four grants you three additional turns 
of four-cost impact. Being able to maximize 
the impact of each additional fate that is spent 
is an important strategic concept in the game.
Also keep in mind: any fate a player does not 
spend remains in that player’s pool from round 
to round. So, if you have extra fate that you 
don’t have an immediate use for, hold on to it, 
as it could prove useful later in the game.
Once the option to place fate tokens on a character has 
been completed or passed, the province from which 
the character was played is refilled by taking a card 
from the dynasty deck and, without looking at the card, 
placing it facedown on the province.

ILLUS. CHARLES URBACH
HOLDING
Imperial Storehouse
Imperial.
Action: Sacrifice this holding – draw 
1 card.
Holdings
Holdings are a cardtype that represents the lands, 
structures, fortifications, and other locations that may be 
found in a player’s provinces.
Holding cards in a player’s provinces are not played. 
A holding modifies the defense strength of a province 
when it is attacked, and is active as long as it remains 
faceup in the province.
Phase 2: Draw
The draw phase represents the plotting and scheming of 
the Clans as they prepare for the conflicts ahead.
In this phase, each player determines how honorably 
they intend to act during the upcoming phases of the 
round: essentially, they are bidding their honor in order 
to draw more cards from their conflict deck. These 
cards, kept in a player’s hand, represent secret agendas, 
surprising tactics, tricks, schemes, and 
hidden information.
The draw phase consists of 4 steps:
1.	 Each player secretly selects a number between 1 and 
5 on their honor dial.
2.	 Each player reveals their selection.
3.	 The player who selected the higher number gives 
their opponent an amount of honor equal to the 
difference between the two selected numbers. If 
both players selected the same number, no honor 
is given.
4.	 Each player draws a number of cards from their 
conflict deck equal to the number they selected on 
their honor dial.
Once the above steps are complete, proceed to the 
conflict phase.
For example: Kristina, playing the Crane, secretly 
selects the number 2 on her honor dial. Tom, playing 
the Lion, also secretly selects a number on his dial. Once 
both players are ready, they simultaneously reveal their 
dials. Kristina reveals her bid of 2, and Tom reveals a 
bid of 5. Tom’s bid is 3 higher than Kristina’s, so he must 
give her 3 honor from his pool. Kristina then draws 2 
cards from her conflict deck (equal to her bid), and Tom 
draws 5 cards from his conflict deck (equal to his bid).
Draw and Refill
During a game, players are frequently instructed 
to “draw cards” and to “refill” provinces. Cards 
are always drawn from a player’s conflict deck and 
added to that players hand. Provinces are always 
refilled facedown from a player’s dynasty deck.
Running Out of Cards
If a player attempts to refill a card onto a province from 
their dynasty deck or draw a card from their conflict 
deck and no cards remain in the deck, that player loses 
5 honor, then shuffles the corresponding discard pile 
and places it facedown to form a new dynasty or conflict 
deck. That player then continues to refill the province or 
draw a conflict card.
The Imperial Storehouse holding increases the 
defense strength of the Pilgrimage province from 
5 to 6. 

Each conflict is identified in two ways: by element and 
by type.
Element
There are five different elements in Legend of the Five 
Rings: The Card Game - Air, Earth, Fire, Water, and 
Void. If the attacker wins the conflict they will gain a 
reward, known as a ring effect, based on the conflict’s 
element. Each element provides a different ring effect, 
which will be described later.
Type
There are two types of conflicts: military and political. 
A conflict’s type determines whether characters use 
their military or political skill value when resolving 
that conflict (see image, below).
Each player is permitted to declare one conflict of each 
type during the conflict phase.
Conflict Opportunities
Starting with the first player and alternating back and 
forth, each player has the opportunity to declare a 
conflict against one of their opponent’s provinces. Each 
player is permitted two such opportunities during this 
phase, in the order listed below:
1.	 The first player has the first opportunity to declare 
and resolve a conflict.
2.	 The second player has the next opportunity to 
declare and resolve a conflict.
3.	 The first player has another opportunity to declare 
and resolve a conflict.
4.	 The second player has another opportunity to 
declare and resolve a conflict.
A player always has the option to pass on declaring a 
conflict during a conflict oppportunity, but doing so 
relinquishes that conflict opportunity this phase.
Phase 3: Conflict
The conflict phase represents a series of military and 
political confrontations between the two clans. A military 
conflict represents a military battle or a physical fight. A 
political conflict could represent a trial, an argument or 
debate, or a contest of court intrigue and scheming.
In this phase, each player will have a chance to initiate 
conflicts against their opponent. After these conflicts 
have resolved, the players will compare glory in an 
attempt to earn the Imperial Favor.
Military Skill (top) and 
Political Skill (bottom).
Strategy: Honor Bids
There are several things to consider when 
determining how best to bid. 
First, are you happy with the cards in your 
hand? Do they seem that they will be useful 
in the upcoming round? If you like your hand, 
you might consider bidding low to preserve or 
acquire more honor. If you feel that you need 
more options, you might consider bidding 
high to draw more cards. 
Second, consider how much honor you and 
your opponent each have, and be wary of 
high bids that could push your opponent too 
close to winning the game. 
Third, try to anticipate your opponent’s most 
likely bid, and think about whether you’d 
like to match that bid (to prevent honor 
from changing hands) or bid differently (to 
create more of an imbalance between you 
and your opponent in terms of honor or card 
advantage). 
Finally, think about whether you (and your 
opponent) are in a position from which you 
could leverage more cards to influence the 
direction of the game. 
After considering all of the factors, make your 
bid with confidence and see what happens 
— you can never know for sure what the 
opponent is going to do, and trying to best 
navigate this decision is one of the unique 
strategic moments of the game.

When a conflict is declared, if the province that is being 
attacked is facedown, turn the province card faceup. 
This may trigger effects that have an impact on the 
conflict and could influence the result of 
the conflict.
Step 2. Declare Defenders
The defending player now has the option to declare 
characters as defenders.
This player declares which ready characters 
(under the defending player’s control) are 
being committed as defenders and slides them 
forward, separate from their non-committed 
characters. The defending player may declare no 
characters if that player so desires.
Note: A character with a dash (–) for a skill value cannot 
participate in a conflict of that type.
Attack and Defense (Terminology)
When a player declares a conflict against an opponent’s 
province, that player is the attacking player and the 
characters that are committed to the conflict on that 
player’s side are participating as attacking characters 
(also referred to as attackers). 
The opponent whose province is being attacked is the 
defending player and the characters that are committed 
to the conflict on that player’s side are participating as 
defending characters (also referred to as defenders).
Declaring and Resolving a Conflict
To declare and resolve a conflict, perform the following 
steps, in order:
1.	 Conflict Declaration – The attacking player 
determines which characters are attacking, where 
they are attacking, and how they are attacking.
2.	 Declare Defenders – The defending player 
determines which characters are defending.
3.	 Conflict Actions – The players alternate using card 
abilities in an attempt to gain the upper hand in the 
conflict.
4.	 Conflict Resolution – A conflict result is determined, 
and the consequences of that result are applied to 
Each of these steps is described in detail below.
Step 1. Conflict Declaration
In order to declare a conflict, the attacking player must:
Declare the type and element of the conflict to 
be initiated. (For example: “I declare a political 
Fire conflict.”)
Take the unclaimed ring token of the declared 
element and place it on an opponent’s province 
with the declared type faceup. This indicates 
which province is being attacked. A player is 
not permitted to declare an element type if that 
ring is not in the unclaimed ring pool. A player 
cannot declare a conflict against an opponent’s 
stronghold province unless three or more of that 
opponent’s other provinces are broken.
Declare which ready characters (under the 
attacking player’s control) are being committed 
as attackers and slide them forward, separate 
from their non-committed characters. At least 
one character must be declared at this time in 
order to initiate a conflict.
The above items are considered to be performed 
simultaneously. If any of the above cannot be 
completed, the conflict cannot be initiated.
Slide a character forward from your home 
area to indicate it is being declared as an 
attacker or defender.

Philosophy.
Action: Choose a  character you control – 
honor that character.
There is a proper technique for all things.
Way of the Crane
Step 4. Conflict Resolution
During this step, players determine the result of 
the conflict.
The conflict type indicates which skill value is used to 
determine the result. During a military conflict, use 
military skill; during a political conflict, use political skill.
Each player determines the total skill value (matching 
the conflict type) of their participating ready characters, 
factoring all relevant modifiers. The player with the 
higher total wins the conflict.
Note: A bowed character does not count its skill toward 
the resolution of that conflict.
In case of a tie, the conflict is won by the attacking 
player. If a conflict is tied with both players counting 
0 skill, the conflict resolves with no winner.
If there were no defending characters in the conflict 
(ready or bowed) at the time skill is counted and 
the attacking player wins the conflict, the conflict is 
considered unopposed. If a conflict resolves unopposed, 
the defending player loses 1 honor.
If the attacking player wins, check to see if the province 
breaks (see next page) and resolve the ring effect (see 
next page).
If the defending player wins the conflict, the province 
does not break and there is no ring effect — that 
player has prevented the attacking player from making 
headway and has defended their land.
The player who won the conflict now claims the 
contested ring and adds it to their claimed ring pool. 
If no player won the conflict, the ring is returned to the 
unclaimed ring pool.
Step 3. Conflict Actions
During this step, the players take turns using action 
abilities to influence the conflict and gain the 
upper hand.
The defending player has the first opportunity to act, 
and the opportunities alternate back and forth between 
the players until both players pass consecutively.
With an action opportunity, a player may do one of 
the following:
Activate an action ability on one of their cards. 
An action may be triggered from a character or 
attachment in play, from an unbroken faceup 
province, or from a holding or stronghold. A 
player may also play an event card with an 
action ability from their hand by paying the 
card’s fate cost.
Play an attachment card from their hand by 
paying its cost and attaching it to (i.e., placing it 
partially underlapping) a character in play. Once 
in play, an attachment modifies the character’s 
stats and may provide additional abilities for 
the character.
Play a character from their hand by paying its 
cost. The character’s controller may place it in 
the conflict participating on their side, or in their 
home area. The controller may choose to place 
any amount of fate from their fate pool on that 
character at this time.
Pass. If a player passes and the opponent then 
takes another action (other than “pass”), the 
passing player is able to re-enter the sequence.
After using one of the above action opportunities, a 
player should announce the total relevant skill present 
on both sides of the conflict that would be counted if 
the conflict were to resolve with no further actions (see 
step 4, below).
Once both players pass consecutively, proceed to the 
next step.
The card Way of the Crane is an example of 
an action ability, which can be identified by 
the boldface “Action:” timing trigger.
Strategy: Conflict Actions
There are a number of different ways action 
abilities may be used to influence a conflict. 
Some might involve raising or lowering a 
participating character’s relevant skill value. 
Bowing a character means that its skill will 
not be counted toward the resolution of the 
conflict. Moving a character home removes 
that character from the conflict entirely. 
Honoring or dishonoring a character (see 
“Personal Honor” on page 30) will modify 
its skill based on the character’s glory value. 
Finally, there are other, more specialized 
action abilities in the game that can influence 
the outcome of a conflict in a variety of ways. 
The back and forth exchange of action abilities 
is a source of tension and an opportunity for 
tactical skill to influence the game.

Ring Effects
Each time the attacker wins a conflict (regardless as to 
whether or not the province was broken), that player 
may choose to resolve the ring effect of the conflict’s 
element. The ring effects are as follows:
 Air: The attacking player takes 1 honor token from 
their opponent, or gains 2 honor.
 Earth: The attacking player draws 1 card from their 
conflict deck and discards 1 card at random from their 
opponent’s hand.
 Fire: The attacking player chooses a character in play 
and honors or dishonors that character. (See page 30.)
 Water: The attacking player either chooses a 
character and readies it, or chooses a character with no 
fate on it and bows it.
 Void: The attacking player chooses a character and 
removes 1 fate from that character.
End of Conflict
Once all effects of winning a conflict have resolved, 
each character in the conflict bows and returns 
home. The conflict is now over. Proceed to the next 
player’s next conflict opportunity, if any remain (see 
page 10).
After both players have either declared or passed 
on each of their conflict opportunities for the phase, 
proceed to the Imperial Favor contest on page 16.
For an example of a conflict, see page 14.
Breaking Provinces
If the attacking player wins a conflict, check to see if the 
defending province is broken. If the attacking player 
won the conflict by an amount of skill equal to or greater 
than the province’s strength (located in the upper left 
corner of the card), the province is broken. Note: If the 
attack is resolving against a player’s stronghold province, 
the stronghold adds its bonus strength value to the 
strength value of the defending province.
Turn a province 180 degrees to indicate that it is broken. 
Card abilities on broken provinces cannot be used, and 
further conflicts cannot be declared against broken 
provinces. A broken province remains broken for the 
duration of the game.
If the attacking player wins a conflict that breaks a 
province, that player may discard the dynasty card in 
that province. The defending player then refills the 
province with a facedown card from the top of their 
dynasty deck.
A player is still able to play cards from a broken 
province, and to replace new facedown cards from their 
dynasty deck onto that province.
Unbroken
Broken
Strategy: Attack and Defense
There are four conflict opportunities each 
conflict phase: two attacking, and two 
defending. Decide which conflicts are most 
important for you to win, and prioritize 
accordingly. Sometimes it’s better to concede 
a conflict you don’t care much about losing 
in exchange for greater chances of winning in 
other, more important engagements.
The order in which you initiate your conflicts is 
also important. Is your first conflict a probing 
attack, aimed at gathering information and 
forcing the opponent to squander resources? 
Or is it a heavy strike you need to succeed at 
in order to take control of the round?
When choosing a ring, consider the ring 
effect you would like to achieve as well 
as the possibility of denying an effect to 
your opponent. Sometimes, preventing an 
opponent’s optimal play is the best move you 
can make.
Finally, keep all possible outcomes in mind: 
What would happen if the attacking player 
wins? If the defending player wins? Can 
the defending player lose, but prevent the 
province from breaking? Commit your forces 
and resources in a manner that makes your 
desired outcome the most likely result!

 
Conflict Example
ILLUS. CHRIS OSTROWSKI
Action: During a conflict, bow this stronghold – 
each attacking character you control gets +1 
until the end of the conflict.
Castle.
 Yōjin no Shiro
ILLUS. JESSICA COX
Shugenja. Water.
Action: During a conflict, bow this character. 
Choose a character in one of your discard piles – 
put that character into play in the conflict. If that 
character is still in play at the end of the conflict, 
return it to the bottom of its deck.
Kitsu Spiritcaller
ILLUS. MARIO WIBISONO
Reaction: After 1 or more fate is placed on this 
character – gain 1 honor.
She was destined to follow the path of her ancestors, the 
path of the true Go sage.
Ikoma Prodigy
Bushi. Courtier.
a character with equal or lower  skill than this 
character – bow that character.
“Let me put it another way.”
Lion's Pride Brawler
ILLUS. STANISLAV DIKOLENKO

This province gets +5 strength during  conflicts.
“It would take an entire Moto horde 
to break through here.”
Entrenched Position
Kristina, playing the Crane, declares a conflict against Tom, who is playing the Lion. She slides her 
honored Asahina Storyteller forward from her home area and declares it as an attacker (1). She selects 
the Ring of Air from the unclaimed ring pool and places it on one of Tom’s provinces with the ring’s 
political side faceup (2). This establishes which province is being attacked, and that a political conflict 
is being declared. Tom now flips the province over, revealing that it is the card Entrenched Position (3). 
Tom then declares Matsu Beiona as a defender by sliding it forward from his home area (4).
Kristina’s Play Area
Tom’s Play Area

 
Conflict Example (continued)
ILLUS. SHEN FEI
Action: During a  conflict, select one – choose 
and honor a participating character you control, 
or your opponent chooses and dishonors a 
participating character he or she controls. 
(Max 1 per conflict.)
Court Games
ILLUS. ANNA CHRISTENSON
Action: During a conflict, choose an opponent’s 
character with lower  skill than a participating 
Courtier character you control – move the 
chosen character home.
Outwit
Once both players have declared their participating characters, the defending player has the first 
opportunity to take an action. Tom uses this opportunity to play the event card Court Games (5), and 
chooses to dishonor Kristina’s Asahina Storyteller. This removes the honored status token from the 
storyteller (6) and reduces her political skill from six to four. The total political skill on Kristina’s side is 
now four, while Tom’s side remains at two.
It is now Kristina’s turn to take an action, and she plays the event card Outwit, targeting Matsu Beiona 
(7). This event sends Matsu Beiona home, removing her from the conflict (8). The total political skill on 
Kristina’s side remains at four, and Tom’s is now zero.
It is now Tom’s turn to take an action. He passes as he does not have any way of changing the outcome 
of the conflict. Kristina also passes as she does not have any other means to increase her skill. Kristina 
wins the conflict unopposed by a count of four to zero. Tom loses one honor because the conflict was 
unopposed. Entrenched Position has a strength of 5, and Kristina only won the conflict by 4, so the 
province does not break. Kristina resolves the Air ring effect, and chooses to take 1 honor from Tom. 
Kristina claims the Ring of Air and places it next to her stronghold. Finally, the Asahina Storyteller 
returns home and bows (9). The conflict is now over.

Phase 4: Fate
The fate phase represents the moment at which the 
forces of karma and destiny make themselves known, 
and the various personalities in play move one step 
closer to their ultimate fate.
At the start of the fate phase, each character that has 
no fate tokens on it is discarded (this occurs in player 
order). When a character is discarded, place it in the 
discard pile that is associated with the deck from which 
the card originated. Note: When a character leaves play, 
all attachments on that character are discarded. 
Then, each player (in player order) removes one fate 
token from each remaining character they control. 
Finally, place one fate from the general token pool on 
each unclaimed ring. Note: When a player selects a ring 
with fate on it as the contested ring in a conflict, the 
attacking player takes all the fate from the ring and adds 
it to their fate pool.
After completing the above process, proceed to the 
regroup phase.
Imperial Favor Contest
At the end of the conflict phase, 
each player counts their total 
amount of glory (the number on 
the right-hand side of the card, 
above the text box) on ready 
characters they control and adds 
this number to the number of 
rings in their claimed ring pool. 
The player with the highest total 
claims the Imperial Favor card 
and sets it to one side or the 
other (military or political) next 
to their stronghold. This player is said to “have the 
Imperial Favor,” and the side to which the card is set 
will influence the following game round by providing 
its controller with a +1 skill bonus during conflicts of 
that type. If players have the same total, the Imperial 
Favor remains in its current state (either unclaimed, or 
under the possession of the player who currently has it, 
remaining set to its current side).
After the Imperial Favor contest is complete, proceed to 
the fate phase.
Glory Value

What’s Next?
You now have the rules needed to play your first game. 
After playing the game, you can learn more about Kakita 
Asami in the short story, “A Season of War” on page 
19. An introduction to the Great Clans of Rokugan 
follows on page 22. 
You can now play a few more practice games with the 
starter decks, or, if you are ready, you can dive into 
custom deckbuilding on page 18 and construct your 
own decks. Finally, some more advanced concepts are 
introduced in the appendices on page 29.
Phase 5: Regroup
The regroup phase represents a chance for the leaders 
of the clans to take stock of their current position and 
prepare for the following game round.
The regroup phase consists of four steps:
Step 1. Ready Each Card in Play
Each player readies each of their bowed cards.
Step 2. Discard Unwanted Cards from Provinces
In player order, each player may discard any number of 
faceup cards from any of their unbroken provinces. Each 
player must discard all faceup cards from their broken 
provinces. Replace these discarded cards with facedown 
cards from the dynasty deck.
Step 3. Return All Rings to the Unclaimed Ring Pool
All rings are returned simultaneously.
Step 4. Pass the First Player Token
The player with the first player token passes it to their 
opponent. That player is the first player for the next 
round of the game.
The end of the regroup phase marks the end of the 
game round. Proceed to the dynasty phase of the next 
game round. Continue to play through game rounds 
until one player has won the game.
Strategy: Discarding Cards
This step is an opportunity for you to replace 
any dynasty cards you don’t feel are going to 
help you in the upcoming rounds. Discarding 
a card in this manner provides an opportunity 
to replace it with a new card from your 
dynasty deck, so if there is a specific card or 
type of card you need, take advantage of this 
free attempt to find it. Of course, if you like 
each of the dynasty cards in your provinces, 
you shouldn’t discard any of them!

Influence
Each stronghold provides its controller 
with a number of influence that can be 
used during deckbuilding. This influence 
may be used to include out-of-clan cards 
from a single clan in that player’s conflict 
Many conflict cards have an influence 
cost, shown at the bottom of the card. 
Each bamboo stalk on a card indicates 
one point of influence cost. The combined 
influence value of out-of-clan cards in a 
player’s deck cannot exceed the influence 
value on that player’s stronghold.
If a conflict card with a clan symbol does 
not have an influence value, it cannot be 
used as an out-of-clan card in another 
deck. Neutral cards that do not have 
influence can be included in any deck.
Deck Customization Rules
These deck customization rules are for sanctioned 
tournament play. Additional copies of this core set 
and other expansions provide for additional 
customization options. The basic guidelines for a player’s 
customized decks are:
• 1 Stronghold
• 5 Provinces
• 1 Dynasty Deck (40-45 cards)
• 1 Conflict Deck (40-45 cards)
• 1 Role Card (optional)
The following restrictions must be observed:
◊	A player must choose exactly 1 stronghold. Any card 
with an affiliation that matches a player’s stronghold 
is said to be in-clan.
◊	A player may use 1 role card. A role card is placed 
next to a player’s stronghold card during setup, and 
modifies that player’s options while building and 
playing the deck.
◊	A player’s dynasty deck must contain a minimum of 
40 and a maximum of 45 cards. Each of these cards 
must be in-clan or be neutral. (A neutral card has no 
clan affiliation symbol in the upper right of the card.)
◊	A player’s conflict deck must contain a minimum of 
40 and a maximum of 45 cards. Each of these cards 
must be in-clan, be neutral, or be purchased from a 
single other clan by using influence (see “Influence” 
sidebar, on left).
◊	A player cannot include more than 10 character 
cards in a conflict deck.
◊	No more than 3 copies of a single card, by title, can 
be included in any combination in a player’s dynasty 
and conflict decks.
◊A player’s set of provinces must include exactly 5 
provinces, consisting of exactly 1 province associated 
with each ring. (Each province has a ring symbol 
in the lower right corner of the card to indicate its 
association.) Each province must be in-clan or be 
neutral. No more than one copy of each province, by 
title, may be included in a player’s province set. 
Out-of-Box Play 
When building decks for one player from a single core set, 
the minimum dynasty and conflict deck size is 30 cards. 
To build decks for two players from a single core set, 
divide the neutral cards evenly between the players (as in 
the tutorial game) and use all of the cards and influence 
points available for the desired clan pairings.
Deckbuilding
The Legend of the Five Rings: The Card Game core set 
is designed to provide a complete game experience and 
offers significant replayability. After playing a few times 
with the starter decks, players may wish to explore their 
own strategies by creating their own original decks.
Why Build Custom Decks?
Deckbuilding is a process by which a player may 
customize their decks with original strategies and ideas. 
This allows a player to experience the game in new 
ways; instead of adapting to the strategy of a starter 
deck, each player may construct decks that function as 
they desire. When players construct original decks, they 
don’t just participate in the game: they actively shape 
how it is played. 
17 FFG
An influence cost of 2.

Asami sipped her tea and smiled softly. “Perhaps your 
shugenja misread the omens. The Crane Clan is the 
rightful owner of the plains.” Even if the Lion shugenja 
were true mediums between this world and their 
ancestors, supernatural “evidence” wasn’t admissible as 
proof in any legal proceedings.
The Ikoma historian rose and gestured toward the 
horizon, his eyes narrowing in indignation. “Your warriors 
have occupied these lands for but two turns of the 
seasons. Before that, the Lion were its protectors.”
Asami looked to her own stoic guardian, who kept a close 
watch on the Matsu. She began tactfully: “For three short 
generations, yes, the Lion were its protectors. But our 
elders can remember the days when the Crane tended the 
beasts of those pastures and reaped the harvest of those 
fields—as we did for centuries untold.”
The Crane needed those lands now more than it had 
ever needed them before. After the tsunami, their rice 
paddies in the coastal provinces had been devastated, 
and their priests did not know when the Earth spirits 
would return to the fields and bless their crops once 
more. For the same reasons, her clan could not afford a 
war, especially while fighting intensified at Toshi Ranbo.
“The Crane stole those lands from the Lion!” The Ikoma 
snapped his fan shut and pointed it at Asami. “It was not 
through strength of blade and honor that the day was 
won, but through foul trickery. The Crane did not have 
enough numbers to prevail, and yet somehow they did. 
The Lion remember. Our ancestors do not lie.”
A Season of War
Kakita Asami of the Crane Clan delicately refilled four 
teacups: one for each of her Lion Clan hosts, one for her 
bodyguard, and finally one for herself. How she longed 
to be a student again, when mastering proper tea-
pouring techniques was the greatest of her worries, not 
whether she could prevent a war between her people 
and the Lion Clan.
She stifled a wistful sigh and settled back into a seated 
kneeling position on the tatami mat floor. The meeting 
room was small and plain by Crane standards, but then 
again, she was in a castle in the heart of Lion lands.
“Our priests have heard the laments of our honored 
ancestors. They demand the Crane return the Osari 
Plains to their rightful owners,” warned Ikoma Eiji, a Lion 
Clan historian and her diplomatic counterpart.
His attendant, the warrior Matsu Beiona, paced one side 
of the room, her mouth hardened into a frown. Beneath 
that mask of self-control, rage and frustration seethed. 
It wouldn’t take much to incite her into an outburst, but 
that wouldn’t serve Asami’s purposes here. Her father 
had bidden that she provide a diplomatic back channel 
in case tempers flared too hot during the more public 
rounds of negotiation at the Imperial Capital.
And if tempers flared here, too—well, that’s why Kaezin-
san had been appointed her personal bodyguard, her 
yōjimbō.

Asami’s heart tightened in her chest. He could be, but she 
couldn’t know for sure. She hadn’t seen him in months, 
and his letters had ceased since the death of his father. 
Had she really been so obvious with her affections in 
public? Did the historian know about them?
No. Impossible. Surely Kuwanan was posted elsewhere, 
safely serving in a court on his sister’s behalf.
The screen behind them slid open, and a servant 
entered to proffer a scroll to his master. “An urgent 
letter, my lord.” 
The Ikoma took the scroll and dismissed the messenger. 
The room grew silent as he read.
“Lady Asami, it appears that our conversation is over. 
It is just as I feared—a band of honorless ronin have 
slaughtered the Crane forces at Shirei Mura.”
Asami took a deep breath. She had known this 
accusation was coming, but the foresight did not soften 
the sting of his words. 
The historian stopped in front of a scroll bearing a quote 
from Akodo’s Leadership, the definitive treatise on the 
art of war by the Kami himself. “Without honor, there is 
no victory. Without fear, there is no defeat,” it read. He 
stroked his goatee as if in thought.
Asami recalled a different line from Akodo’s Leadership, 
and she considered offering its wisdom to her host: On 
the battlefield, all actions are honorable.
But he continued before she could speak. “At the dawn 
of the Empire, the first Hantei charged Lord Akodo 
himself with maintaining these lands on his behalf. The 
very Heavens ordained that they belong beneath the 
Lion’s banner.”
Asami closed her eyes, and prayed to Lady Doji that her 
next words would bear the weight of her determination 
and the levity of her foremother’s grace. “We cannot 
forever dwell in the past; it is in the present that we must 
live. If the Heavens had truly decreed that the Lion be its 
safekeepers, your forces would not have lost to our own.”
Uncomfortable silence pressed between them. Beyond 
the open screen doors and the veranda that circled the 
inner courtyard, cherry blossoms swirled in the breeze. 
The petals reminded her of a blizzard, of the long nights 
spent at home with stories, songs, and the smiles of her 
childhood sweetheart. But winter was already past, and 
spring would soon be over as well. Summer, the season 
of war, grew near.
The Ikoma began his counterattack. “The fact remains 
that the Lion are best equipped to ensure the plains’ 
continued protection. Your coastal holdings have fallen 
prey to pirate incursions on too many occasions. It 
would be a shame if a similar roving band of miscreants 
were to attack the Osari villages. Do we not want 
the same thing: to safeguard the Emperor’s lands as 
effectively as possible?”
Asami had to consider her words carefully, lest she 
insinuate that the answer was “no.” “We will protect 
these lands well.”
“Then let us try out the courtier’s theory!” the Matsu 
shouted. “Our honor demands we reclaim these lands 
by force! We waste our time bickering here. Let us test 
our mettle on the battlefield! My ancestors scream for 
justice. The Crane will scatter before our mighty roar!”
“Please calm your companion,” Asami said evenly, 
ignoring the bushi’s outburst. For a moment, she 
thought she saw the historian smirk.
Ikoma Eiji asked, “Are you afraid of Beiona-san making 
good on her threats? Isn’t Doji Kuwanan-sama posted 
along the front now, guarding the village of Shirei?”

“Kaezin-san,” she said, standing at last, her yōjimbō 
rising beside her. “Let us return home.”
Matsu Beiona’s hand moved to rest on the hilt of her 
katana. Kaezin took a step in front of Asami, and she 
saw him discreetly unlock his sword, ready to strike at 
any moment.
Ikoma Eiji set down his brush and sighed. “The 
negotiations in Otosan Uchi have not yet finished, and 
our lord would have you remain our honored guest until 
everything is sorted out.”
The historian said one thing, but Asami understood the 
message that lay beneath: she, Kaezin, and their retinue 
were hostages. In case it finally came to war.
“Lady Asami, you are welcome to add a few lines if 
you please,” he said, gesturing to the parchment. “The 
Crane Clan delegation to the capital will be glad to see 
your calligraphy and know that you remain safe during 
your time with us.”
In her writing to him, Kakita Yuri would know with 
certainty that she had failed him—both as a diplomat 
and as a daughter.
The final cherry blossom broke away from the branch 
and drifted to the ground.
Kuwanan’s body unmoving in the mud, blood and 
dirt dulling the brilliance of his blue-silver armor. A 
hideous ronin brandishing Kuwanan’s ancestral katana 
in a mockery of the Kakita family technique. 
She banished the image from her mind, but her heart 
still beat loudly in her ears and her cheeks scalded red. 
Asami instinctively raised her fan to cover her mouth and 
lowered it again, in one smooth motion, as though she 
hadn’t tried to hide her reaction.
“This is terrible news,” she managed. Ikoma Eiji took 
a seat again, opened his calligraphy set, and began to 
compose a letter.
The Crane Clan forces would not have fallen—not to 
some “band of ronin,” as the Lion had claimed. Even 
if there had been ronin at the vanguard, the Lion had 
assuredly paid them off, and some bannerless Lion Clan 
ashigaru had no doubt supported the warriors as well.
Honor demanded that Asami believe his words, or at 
least act as though she did, but the hope in her heart 
refused. Doji Kuwanan could not be dead. If the Crane 
Clan Champion lost both her brother and her father in 
the same season, could she still pursue peace? Or would 
she be forced to avenge her kin?
With their diplomatic leverage gone, all she could do 
now was pray the Crane retook the village in time. If 
the Lion “overcame” the ronin first, the Crane would be 
dealt a serious blow to their case. Once again the Lion 
were attempting to provoke the Crane, and whoever 
struck first would lose the sympathy of the Emperor.

Stubbornness has ever been a trait of the Crab. The Kami 
Hida placed the seat of his clan in the great mountains 
of the south, claiming that anyone incapable of surviving 
in such a place was unworthy of following him. At the 
clan’s founding, three men stepped forward to prove 
themselves and were sent to slay a terrifying demon. 
Working together, they prevailed and were accepted 
as the founders of the great families within the Crab. 
The stations of their descendants still reflect the roles of 
their forebears within that legendary battle: the Hiruma, 
whose founder tracked the movements of the beast, 
now provide the scouts; the Kuni, whose founder studied 
the demon’s weaknesses, train priests and scholars; and 
the Kaiu, whose founder forged the blade that slew the 
demon, have for generations been craftspeople and 
builders, lending their name to the vast wall they built. 
Only one family has joined the ranks since then, and 
under unusual circumstances. The Yasuki family, chafing 
under the demands of the haughty Crane Clan, broke its 
ties with the Crane and offered fealty to the Crab, who 
eagerly accepted. Unlike the other families, who train 
for battle against the Shadowlands, the Yasuki train as 
courtiers in negotiation and commerce, an indispensable 
asset to the otherwise-militant Crab.
To those who look upon the Crab kindly, their strength 
is impressive and their determination honorable. But to 
those who do not—those who benefit from the protection 
of the Wall without knowing the sacrifices it requires—the 
Crab are impolite brutes, too pigheaded to comprehend 
the intricacies of court decorum. Regardless of how 
others might view them, the Crab cannot mire themselves 
in bickering and intrigue. They present their back to the 
court only so they may more fully face the true enemy in 
the Shadowlands beyond.
The Great Clans
For over one thousand years, the seven Great Clans 
of Rokugan have served the Chrysanthemum Throne 
according to their unique strengths and weaknesses. 
This section provides a thematic introduction to each of 
these clans. 
The Crab Clan 
At the southern border of Rokugan 
stands a grim miracle: the Kaiu 
Wall, stretching like a great 
puckered scar along the landscape, its slate-grey blocks 
fitted together seamlessly into a structure thirty feet 
thick and a hundred feet tall. To the south loom the 
blighted Shadowlands, the domain of the corrupted 
armies of Jigoku, and to the north lie the lands of the 
Crab Clan, the Wall’s crafters and defenders.
After the Seven Thunders repelled Fu Leng’s dark 
army from Rokugan, the first Emperor commanded 
that a great wall be built to protect the Empire from 
the evils of the Shadowlands. For centuries, the Crab 
Clan has carried out that command with dedication. 
Superstitious peasants whisper that the mortar of the Wall 
is strengthened with the blood of Crab warriors; although 
the Crab would never stoop to practicing blood magic—
even to protect their beloved Empire—it is an accurate 
metaphor for their suffering. While others sing the praises 
of the Thousand Years of Peace, this is at best a false 
pleasantry to the Crab, who lose troops daily to both the 
attacks on the Wall and the corruptive power of the Taint. 
Even when faced with such hardship, the Crab Clan has 
never wavered, standing steadfast in its duty to protect 
the border of the Empire.
Strategy: Crab Clan
Rugged, stoic, and tenacious defenders of 
the Empire, the Crab stand in ever-vigilant 
watch against the threat of a Shadowlands 
invasion. This clan is at their best when they 
are defending against attacks and reacting 
to an opponent’s aggression, and they prefer 
to go second in the round. Seek to weather 
your opponent’s best attacks, and retaliate 
when your foe is at their most vulnerable. 
As builders who excel at living off the land, 
holdings are important to the Crab to help 
protect their provinces and strengthen their 
characters, so be sure to include a few extra 
holdings in your dynasty deck.

oppose them, thereby subtly ensnaring their enemies 
in intricate webs of favors and debts from which there is 
no easy escape. The Kakita—a family named after Doji’s 
husband, the first Emerald Champion—craft music, 
poetry, paintings, and sculptures of such breathtaking 
beauty that the endeavors of others are, at best, pale 
imitations. Yet the blur of the sword is the ultimate 
expression of Kakita achievement, the iaijutsu dueling 
strike of the katana blending art and mastery in a single 
blink of the eye. The shugenja of the Asahina family are 
the pacifist heart of the Crane, mediators and healers 
who eschew violence and spurn the battlefield. And if 
violence is inevitable, their delicate tsangusuri talismans 
protect those who march to war in their stead. In times 
of conflict, the Daidoji family stands ready, a keen but 
discreet weapon brandished in the clan’s defense. 
Besides filling the ranks of the so-called “Iron Crane,” 
which forms the bulk of the Crane’s standing armies, 
the Daidoji also clandestinely serve as the masters 
of cunning maneuvers and deceptive tactics. These 
covert scouts harry opponents of much greater strength 
and numbers, wearing them down, confounding and 
demoralizing them, finally striking only when swift and 
decisive victory is assured.
To the rest of the Empire, the Crane are a study in 
contrasts. They are both respected and hated for 
their achievements, both admired and envied for their 
elegance and grace. They are the makers of beauty and 
the beauty itself, devotees of peace and civility who 
nonetheless wield lethal blades. But if samurai of the 
other Great Clans agree on anything, it is this: from the 
Crane’s impeccable garments, which set the standards 
for style in the Empire, to the sprawling beauty and 
wonder of their Fantastic Gardens, to their seemingly 
limitless talent for artistic accomplishment and political 
dominance in Rokugan’s courts, the Crane don’t simply 
define what it means to be a civilized Empire—they are 
the very civilized essence of Rokugan. 
The Crane Clan 
At the dawn of the Empire, after 
the Kami had fallen from the 
Celestial Heavens, they found 
themselves plunged into a mortal world rife with cruelty 
and war. The Kami Doji—sister of Hantei, the first 
Emperor—resolved to bring order to this savage realm. 
The embodiment of elegance and grace, Doji walked 
among the primitive peoples, calming them in the way 
fair weather calms a storm-tossed sea. From her, they 
learned writing so they could record their achievements, 
politics to govern their affairs, economics and commerce 
to manage their wealth, and art and culture to lift them 
from their lives of misery. Those she touched the most 
became her devoted followers, the first samurai of the 
Crane Clan. Since that time, the Crane have become 
both the poets and the poetry of the Empire, at once 
the swordsmiths and the duelists wielding the smith’s 
blades. In every aspect of their lives, the Crane strive for 
mastery in all things, an ideal that the other clans can 
only hope to emulate.
The Doji, the ruling family of the Crane, are perfection 
made flesh, the pinnacle of grace and beauty. With 
serene smiles, they offer gifts to those who would 
Strategy: Crane Clan
The Crane are known throughout the Emerald 
Empire as a political powerhouse, with wise 
and honorable courtiers guiding the clan 
and protecting themselves against external 
threats. Leverage this political might to 
devastate your opponents during conflicts. 
Keep your characters honored to increase 
their skill, and control the board by keeping 
your opponent’s characters away. The Crane 
have only a few characters that excel in 
military conflicts, so investing fate in them 
to help defend those conflicts can mean the 
difference between victory and defeat.

The Dragon Clan 
In an empire that usually prizes 
conformity and respect for tradition, 
the Dragon Clan is an enigma. 
Inspired by their mysterious founder, the Kami Togashi, 
the Dragon place more emphasis than most of their fellow 
samurai on the individual search for enlightenment and 
expertise. In the centuries since the Kami fell to earth, 
Togashi’s followers have acquired a reputation for strange 
behavior. Isolated by the mountains of their northern home 
and entrusted with watching over the Empire, the Dragon 
rarely participate as actively in the politics of the Empire as 
other clans do—and when they do intervene, it is often for 
reasons others can only guess at. The secret of the Dragon 
is that they are guided by their founder’s foresight, but even 
they do not always know what Togashi saw in his visions.
The Dragon are not without their traditions, but even 
those break the mold formed by a thousand years of 
Rokugani history. It is said that Dragon shugenja and 
courtiers are warriors, their warriors are monks, and their 
monks are inexplicable. Although the Mirumoto family 
produces some of the best swordsmen in Rokugan, its 
members practice a difficult style known as niten, or 
“Two Heavens,” wielding their katana and wakizashi 
simultaneously. The Agasha shugenja family studies 
alchemy, which teaches them both to shift between the 
Elements in their prayers and to create such wonders 
as specially treated sword blades and the powder for 
fireworks. These two families often work together, so 
that Dragon bushi have a deeper understanding of the 
elemental kami than most of their peers, and Dragon 
shugenja are a surprisingly common sight on the 
battlefield. The courtiers of the Kitsuki family also study 
the art of the sword, and their investigative prowess 
is unmatched; their training teaches them to piece 
together tiny clues to form a larger picture in a fashion 
few outsiders can understand. Finally, the monks of 
the Togashi Tattooed Order, who are called ise zumi, 
channel power through mystic tattoos. They follow 
individual paths even more than their clanmates do, 
whether that involves seeking enlightenment through 
hermitage in the mountains or wandering the Empire in 
search of new experiences.
This individualistic bent means that friendships and 
enmities with the Dragon often operate on a personal 
level rather than a clan-wide one. Their enigmatic and 
isolated ways have earned them very few true enemies, 
and even fewer close allies. Due to the great distance 
between them, the Dragon have little contact with the 
Crab. They maintain cordial relationships with their 
neighbors the Phoenix, with whom they share an interest 
in religion and mysticism, and the Unicorn, whose 
foreign habits are likewise an odd match with the rest 
of Rokugan. The Dragon have more difficulty with the 
Lion, who view individualism with a skeptical eye, and the 
Crane, whose Kakita duelists have rivaled the Mirumoto’s 
since the earliest days of the Empire. Perhaps their 
most interesting relationship is with the Scorpion: the 
Dragon seem to understand the Clan of Secrets better 
than anyone else—much to the frustration of Scorpion 
saboteurs unmasked by Kitsuki investigators.
Few can truly say they understand the Dragon. Some 
insist their beloved paradoxes and puzzles are 
no more than a game, triviality masquerading as depth. 
To this accusation, the Dragon quote a common saying 
of the ise zumi:
“What is wisdom?” one asked.
“What is not wisdom?” the other answered.
Strategy: Dragon Clan
The Dragon are a mysterious and 
individualistic clan, and they have secluded 
themselves in the northern mountains of 
Rokugan to focus on self-improvement and 
the pursuit of enlightenment. The use of 
attachments is one of this clan’s greatest 
strengths, and it is wise to invest extra fate 
on a key Dragon personality with a plan 
to attach multiple cards to that character: 
in this manner, both your character and 
its attachments benefit from the fate. The 
concept of balance is also important to this 
clan, and they are well suited for both military 
and political conflicts. Take advantage of this 
flexibility and strike wherever your opponent 
has left an opening.

to victory, for samurai learn best from their ancestors’ 
triumphs. The Kitsu family links the Realm of Mortals 
with the Realm of Sacred Ancestors, their sōdan-senzo 
acting as spirit mediums for their honored dead. These 
powerful shugenja summon the experience and wisdom 
of their ancient heroes to serve them in the heat of 
battle, guiding the Lion Clan’s armies to victory against 
all odds. Through strategy, ferocity, sagacity, and legacy, 
these families of the Lion Clan maintain the disciplined 
war machine of the samurai way of life. 
As generals of the Emperor’s own army, the Lion view 
the other Great Clans only in terms of their value in 
protecting Rokugan and in upholding the revered tenets 
of Bushidō. The Crab Clan’s fortitude and courage have 
always earned Lion respect, yet the Lion also know 
that strategy and discipline serve in places where mere 
strength cannot. The Lion’s rivalry with the Crane stems 
from the simple question of what serves the Emperor 
best: the pampered discourse of Crane courtiers or the 
ready steel of Lion swords? The Lion pay no heed to 
the Dragon, viewing them as reclusive and hidden, and 
therefore useless members of the Empire. Peace means 
death to the samurai way of life, so the Lion cannot 
abide Phoenix pacifism. The Scorpion must never be 
trusted, no matter how sweetly their masks may smile, 
as their sting is never far behind. The Unicorn’s lack of 
discipline renders them little more than barbarians, and 
Bushidō has no place for such wildness according to 
the Lion.
Above all, the Lion live, breathe, and die for the 
Emperor and Rokugan. Should the interests of the 
Emperor and the welfare of the Empire diverge, 
toward what deadly paths or dishonorable fates 
would the Lion march?
The Lion Clan 
Every samurai who lives in 
Rokugan measures courage, honor, 
and duty by the standard set by 
the Lion Clan. The Lion’s military is unrivaled, as there 
are no sharper tacticians and no larger armies in all of 
Rokugan. This proud military heritage has earned the 
Lion Clan a place as the Right Hand of the Emperor, 
sworn to protect him by serving as his personal guard 
and his standing army. In light of this duty, fear means 
nothing to Lion samurai. The threat of death only serves 
to embolden them and bolster their courage, for there 
can be no greater end than to perish in honorable 
combat. As veterans of countless wars, the Lion Clan 
knows that those who attack first shall be victorious. 
Since the dawn of the Empire, the four families of the 
Lion Clan have embodied the Seven Tenets of Bushidō. 
The Akodo family bears the name of the Lion Clan’s 
founding Kami: Akodo One-Eye, the god of war and the 
greatest commander to ever live. According to all the 
tales, for a thousand years no Akodo general has ever 
lost a battle, bestowing the family with a reputation for 
invincible generals and brilliant tacticians. The Matsu 
family are the teeth of the Lion, sharpened every day 
by arduous training. Each warrior is raised from the 
womb for war, to wield the katana with fearsome skill 
and to die for the glory of Rokugan. Having served as 
the historians of Rokugan since its inception, the Ikoma 
family makes warriors into legends. History is the key 
Strategy: Lion Clan
The Lion are a proud, aggressive, and violent 
clan that leverages its strong military skill 
in order to win conflicts. The Lion have the 
largest standing army in Rokugan, and Lion 
decks frequently aim to swarm the play area 
with characters, strengthening their presence 
through numbers. Having more characters 
allows the Lion to maximize their stronghold 
ability and ensures that they can always 
participate in military conflicts. However, Lion 
characters with political skill are harder to 
come by, so it is often worth the extra fate to 
keep a character with a decent political skill 
value in play.

Leading the Phoenix is the Isawa family, beloved of 
the kami and the foremost of Rokugan’s scholars and 
shugenja. Many of the Empire’s shugenja traditions 
originate with the Isawa family, and more children of the 
Isawa are born with the ability to hear the kami than any 
other family in the Empire. Serving these priests are the 
Shiba, the Phoenix’s lone warrior family and foremost 
of the Empire’s yōjimbō. Sworn to protect the clan’s 
shugenja, these warriors study theology and philosophy 
to better understand and guard their charges from 
threats both mundane and supernatural. Leading them 
is the Phoenix Clan Champion, an exemplary Shiba 
chosen not through birthright, but by the ancestral 
sword of the Phoenix itself, Ofushikai. Yet even the clan 
champion bends a knee to the five Elemental Masters, 
an arrangement unique to the Phoenix Clan. If the Isawa 
are the mind and the Shiba are the arm, then the Asako 
are the Phoenix’s heart. Their compassionate rhetoric 
can lower any guard, and it is said an Asako healer can 
overcome any malady. The primary scholars of the Tao, 
the Asako have a small order of monks to maintain their 
libraries and keep the Tao’s greatest secrets hidden until 
the world is ready for its truth. 
As the scent of incense wafts unseen to all corners of 
a shrine, so do the spirit realms overlap invisibly with 
our own. The Phoenix mediate between both worlds, 
appealing to the very soul of the lands. Mountains 
collapse at their whispered requests, dry rivers are 
convinced to flow again, plagues are banished, restless 
ghosts are returned to slumber, and crops flourish 
in previously barren wastelands. Nevertheless, the 
Phoenix understand that even the purest wish can 
have unintended and destructive consequences if the 
elements are brought out of balance. Although others 
consider the Phoenix too hesitant in their entreaties to 
the kami, few are foolhardy enough to test the Phoenix’s 
dedication to peace and harmony.
The Phoenix Clan 
The Phoenix is a symbol of 
contradictions: explosive power 
and great restraint, vast intelligence 
and deep humility, immolating self-sacrifice and glorious 
rebirth. These entwined virtues illuminate the path of 
Rokugan’s most mystical Great Clan, the keepers of the 
Tao of Shinsei and caretakers of the Empire’s soul.
The Phoenix’s flame burned brightest in Shiba, the 
wisest and most humble of the fallen Kami. While his 
siblings sought to secure their legacy and civilize the 
lands, Shiba sought knowledge and harmony. In the 
fledgling Empire’s darkest hour, Shiba and the Little 
Teacher, Shinsei, entreated the priest Isawa and his tribe 
to join them in fighting the forces of the Shadowlands. 
While Isawa saw their wisdom, he would not surrender 
his tribe to the rule of the Kami. When he refused, Shiba 
bent his knee, swearing fealty and pledging that if the 
tribe joined the Empire, Shiba’s line would forever serve 
Isawa’s. With this humble gesture, Shiba established the 
Phoenix’s deferential traditions and founded a clan in 
which warriors and priests could exist side by side.
The Phoenix Clan follows Shiba’s example to this day. 
Guided by the wisdom of the Council of Elemental 
Masters, the clan’s members tend to the spirits of 
the land and serve their lords as priests and spiritual 
advisors. The Phoenix maintain shrines throughout the 
Empire, teach the mysteries of the Tao, and preserve the 
harmony between mortals and gods. 
Strategy: Phoenix Clan
The Phoenix are the masters of magic in 
Rokugan, but they are also staunch pacifists 
with little interest in warfare. Use the clan’s 
shugenja to leverage powerful effects against 
your opponent from the safety of your home 
area. The clan’s mastery of the elemental rings 
will help to deny your opponent the effects 
they aim to use against you while ensuring 
you’ll be able to use the rings you need to win. 
This clan’s distaste for violence can also be used 
as a calming influence upon your opponent, 
making overt aggression and military conflicts 
much less effective against you.

all, the sinister ninja of whispered legend. The Soshi, 
a family of shugenja, have mastered the subtle art of 
calling upon the kami silently. Some claim the Soshi 
wield the shadows themselves as a weapon or a shield. 
Finally, the Yogo, a family of shugenja descended from 
the Phoenix Clan, protect the Empire from Fu Leng’s 
influence and punish those who delve into forbidden 
magics. Long ago, the Dark Kami himself cursed those 
carrying the Yogo bloodline to inevitably betray the one 
they love most. From then on, the Yogo could serve only 
the Scorpion, whom they would never love.
The Scorpion have both united the other clans against 
them in righteous anger and kept the other clans 
divided so that no one coalition can overpower the 
Emperor. This has earned them no few enemies over 
the centuries. The Lion and Crab are the most common 
victims of the Scorpion’s treachery. The Crane and 
Phoenix pride themselves on refusing to stoop so low as 
the Scorpion, even though they often find themselves 
on the same side as the Scorpion clan in the courts. The 
Unicorn confound the Scorpion with their unpredictable 
ways, but the Clan of the Wind has brought the 
Scorpion many new tricks and useful techniques from 
the lands beyond the Burning Sands. Not least of these 
is the opium that enriches Ryoko Owari, the greatest 
and most prosperous city in all the Empire. 
Yet, in spite of—and perhaps because of—the clan’s 
fearsome reputation, there is none more loyal than a 
Scorpion. In a clan of deceivers and manipulators, trust 
is a hard-earned treasure to be cherished and guarded. 
Betrayal is punished with swift retribution, the souls of 
the treacherous forever bound into the horrific limbo of 
the place known as Traitor’s Grove. Such fierce loyalty 
is a small consolation, at least, given the dangerous but 
vital role the Scorpion have played in the Empire from 
the moment their Kami spoke his fateful words: “I will be 
your villain, Hantei.”
The Scorpion Clan 
With six terrible words, the 
Kami Bayushi set his followers 
in the newly founded Scorpion 
Clan on a dark and dangerous path. Enemies loomed 
beyond Rokugan’s borders, but they also lurked within 
them. Bayushi swore to protect the Empire by any 
means necessary. Where the Code of Bushidō tied 
the Emperor’s Left and Right Hands—the courtiers of 
the Crane and the mighty legions of the Lion—the 
Emperor’s Underhand could still reach. To combat the 
liars, the thieves, and the traitors within the Great Clans, 
Bayushi’s followers would have to lie, steal, and cheat in 
turn. The weapons of the Scorpion became blackmail, 
poison, and sabotage. The Scorpion dirtied their hands 
so that others’ could remain pure.
Each Scorpion family specializes in a different sort of 
deception, wearing masks as an overt promise of their 
duplicity. The ruling family of the Scorpion, the Bayushi, 
are the charming smile wielding a poisoned blade. 
Whether amid the clash of battle or the subtle schemes 
of court, they specialize in getting close to their foes 
before striking a killing blow like their namesake, the 
scorpion. The Shosuro, meanwhile, seem but a family 
of talented artists and actors, and little more. Yet this, 
like so many things about the Scorpion, is a lie, because 
from their ranks come the clan’s spies and saboteurs, 
their poisoners and assassins, and most ominous of 
Strategy: Scorpion Clan
The Scorpion are seen as the underhanded 
villains of Rokugan by the other Great Clans, 
but in truth (or is it “truth”?) they just want to 
protect the Empire by any means necessary. 
While playing this clan, you’ll want to make 
high honor bids in order to draw extra cards 
during the draw phase and surprise your 
opponents with potent tricks and traps. Take 
care to not bid yourself into an honor loss, 
though! Dishonor is also a powerful tool when 
turned against your foes to keep their stats 
low and their hopes of beating you in conflicts 
even lower.

Of all those that left countless generations ago, only 
a few families have returned. The brave Shinjo family 
leads the clan, claiming descendancy from the Kami 
herself. The Utaku follow, fierce battle maidens and 
youths trained in acrobatic styles of horsemanship and 
war. The diplomatic Ide have quickly relearned the 
dangers of the Emperor’s court, while the samurai of the 
Iuchi family defend the clan with strange and powerful 
foreign magics. Lastly, the exotic, brooding Moto horde 
joined the Ki-Rin Clan during its journeys and had never 
set foot in Rokugan until the clan returned in the ninth 
century. All of the families care for the clan’s large herds 
of horses, which are the finest in the world.
The Unicorn Clan may seem at first to be a series of 
yins and yangs: the patient Ide countering the reckless 
Utaku; the airy, mystic Iuchi contrasting with the dark, 
dour Moto. Though these disparate winds might blow in 
different directions, they all swirl around the clan’s heart, 
the compassionate and courageous Shinjo family.
Yet the Unicorn Clan’s homecoming was not without 
difficulties. Even with proof of their heritage, the Unicorn 
were greeted as barbarian invaders, not returning 
heroes. They charged past the defenses of the Crab 
and then overcame the resistance mounted by the Lion, 
leaving both clans scattered in the wake of Unicorn 
cavalry. Reintegrating into Imperial society has been 
a challenge—and a deadly one at that. Still, there are 
lights in the darkness. An ancient treaty with the Crane 
was honored, providing the Unicorn a strong ally within 
the Empire. The Phoenix watch Unicorn magic with 
equal parts interest and concern. The Dragon perceive 
the wisdom of Shinjo’s children, and the Scorpion see 
the advantage in a pliable ally. Yet, all of Rokugan 
marvels at the speed and might of their magnificent 
steeds. Perhaps they are, finally, where they belong.
The Unicorn Clan 
A thousand years ago, the Ki-Rin 
Clan rode out of Rokugan, seeking 
to discover enemies hiding beyond 
the Emerald Empire’s borders. 
Their journey was arduous, and they found many 
strange and powerful threats. In defeating each one, 
the clan learned, changing its fighting styles, magical 
practices, and even philosophy. To survive, it was forced 
to adapt—and overcome. After eight centuries of 
wandering, the Clan of the Wind returned to the Empire 
as the Unicorn Clan. Their hordes entered Rokugan 
through the Shadowlands, punching a hole through 
Crab defenses and making their way past the Kaiu Wall 
into the heart of the Empire itself.
They wear fur, speak foreign tongues, and wield strange 
weapons. Although they still revere the Kami Shinjo, 
they have drifted far from the traditions and ways of 
the Emerald Empire. Whereas other clans beseech 
the elemental kami for their blessings, the Unicorn 
command the kami in a form of sorcery known as 
meishōdō, or “name magic.” Shugenja of other clans 
see these practices as barbaric at best or heretical 
at worst.
Strategy: Unicorn Clan
The Unicorn are an aggressive, practical, 
and nomadic clan that has mastered the 
arts of mobility and warfare. Use the clan’s 
powerful cavalry characters to outmaneuver 
your opponent during the conflict phase so 
that your enemies are never sure what will 
happen next. Use your movement effects to 
bring characters into and out of conflicts to 
keep your opponent on edge. The Unicorn 
are strongest when they are the first to act, so 
if you have the opportunity to go first as the 
Unicorn, take it. Finally, the Unicorn are much 
more comfortable attacking than defending, 
so be sure to play aggressively and get to 
your opponent before they get to you! 

A round sequence overview, indicating each of these 
action windows, is presented on the following page 
under “Action Opportunities.” Most interrupts and 
reactions may be triggered by a player any time the 
condition described in the ability’s text is met. Some 
interrupt or reaction abilities may be prefaced by 
the word Forced. The initiation of such an ability is 
mandatory any time the specified triggering condition 
occurs. (Note: Forced abilities are still constrained by 
the general once-per-round limit that applies to all 
triggered abilities.)
Each triggered ability consists of one or more of the 
following elements:
◊Triggering condition — This describes the time at 
which an ability may be triggered.
◊Cost — This describes anything the card’s controller 
must do in order to use the ability.
◊Targeting requirements —This describes which 
game elements the triggered ability can affect. The 
word “choose” indicates that one or more targets 
must be selected in order to use the ability.
◊Effect — This describes what the ability does to 
the game state each time the ability is used. An 
ability’s effect is always separated from its triggering 
condition and/or cost and/or targeting requirements 
by a dash (–).
Dueling
Some card abilities may cause two characters to duel. 
To resolve a duel, perform the following steps:
1.	 Identify the characters involved, and the type of skill 
being used. This will be indicated by the card that 
started the duel.
2.	 Each player secretly bids an amount of honor on 
their dial.
3.	 Reveal the dials.
4.	 The player with the higher bid must give an amount 
of honor equal to the difference between the two 
bids to the player with the lower bid. If the bids are 
tied, no honor changes hands.
5.	 Each player adds their bid to the relevant skill of the 
character they control in the duel.
6.	 The character with the higher skill wins the duel. (If 
the skill values are the same, neither player wins the 
duel, and neither loses.) Follow the instructions on 
the card to apply the consequences of the duel to 
Appendix I: 
Advanced Concepts
This section covers some of the more advanced 
concepts that players may come across during play. 
For a comprehensive guide to all aspects of the 
game, see the online Rules Reference guide at www.
fantasyflightgames.com/L5R. 
Card Ability Interpretation
Some of the most exciting elements of Legend of 
the Five Rings: The Card Game are the unique card 
abilities. The following is a primer on the basics of how 
to use and understand these abilities.
A card ability is the special game text that a card 
contributes to the game. A basic approach to card 
abilities can get you pretty far: do what the card says! 
Further details, as you will find below and in the Rules 
Reference, can help you in sorting out any thorny 
particulars that might arise.
There are a variety of different types of card abilities 
in the game, and each type interacts with the game in 
a slightly different manner. These types are: constant 
abilities, triggered abilities (actions, interrupts, reactions, 
and forced abilities), and keywords.
Constant Abilities
A constant ability is any non-keyword ability that is 
not prefaced by a bold-face timing indicator. Constant 
abilities are active so long as the card on which they are 
printed is in play.
Keywords
A keyword is a card ability that conveys specific rules 
to its card. The keywords in the game are listed on 
page 36.
Triggered Abilities
A triggered ability is an ability that is initiated by a 
player at a specified point in the game. The player 
controlling a card has the option of triggering its ability 
or not. (Forced abilities are an exception to this, as 
forced abilities are initiated automatically by the game.)
Each instance of a triggered ability (per copy of a card in 
play) may be triggered once during each game round, 
unless otherwise indicated by the ability itself. 
There are 3 basic types of triggered abilities: Actions, 
Interrupts, and Reactions. Actions may be triggered 
by a player during any of the game’s action windows. 

 Action Opportunities
This section indicates when players are permitted to use 
action abilities during each of the game’s phases.
Dynasty Phase
A player may use action abilities any time it is their turn 
to act during the back-and-forth alternation of playing 
cards from their provinces.
Once a player has passed an opportunity to act during 
this sequence, that player may no longer play cards or 
use action abilities during that phase.
Draw Phase
player may use action abilities after each player has drawn 
cards equal to their honor bid. During this window, action 
Conflict Phase
player may use action abilities after the phase begins, 
before the first conflict opportunity. During this window, 
action opportunities alternate between players in player 
order until both players have consecutively passed. After 
each conflict resolves, play returns to this action window 
before the next conflict may be initiated.
During the resolution of a conflict, there is a special 
action window after defenders are declared, in which 
action opportunities alternate between players starting 
with the defending player until both players have 
consecutively passed.
Fate Phase
player may use action abilities after the “place fate 
on unclaimed rings” step. During this window, action 
Regroup Phase
player may use action abilities after the phase begins, 
before cards are readied. During this window, action 
Personal Honor
During the course of play, certain effects may cause a 
character to become either honored or dishonored. This 
represents the perceptions that Rokugani society has 
about that character and the actions they have taken.
Characters can exist in one of the following three states:
	Honored
	Ordinary
	Dishonored
A character that is honored receives an honored status 
token, and adds its glory value to both its military and 
political skill so long as it possesses that token. When an 
honored character leaves play its controller gains 
1 honor.
A character that is dishonored receives a dishonored 
status token, and subtracts its glory value from both its 
military and political skill so long as it possesses that 
token. When a dishonored character leaves play its 
controller loses 1 honor. 
When an honored character becomes dishonored, it 
loses its honored status, discards the status token, and 
returns to ordinary status (i.e., it has no status token). 
Likewise, when a dishonored character becomes 
honored, it loses its dishonored status, discards the 
status token, and returns to ordinary status.
A character with an honored status token cannot 
become honored, and a character with a dishonored 
status token cannot become dishonored.
Other Terminology
A few other terms players might encounter while 
learning the game are descrbed here.
Friendly - The word “friendly” is used in the cost of 
some abilities as a reminder that costs can only be paid 
with cards controlled by the player triggering the ability.
Sacrifice – If a player is instructed to sacrifice a card, the 
player must select a card they control that meets the 
specified criteria and discard it.
Trait – A card’s traits are presented in bold italics at the 
top of its text box. A trait is a flavorful descriptor that 
carries no rules of its own, but may be referenced by 
card abilities.

◊Why does the ring effect occur when my opponent 
wins a conflict that breaks my province Pilgrimage (22)?
Ability text on broken provinces is not active. During 
conflict resolution, players check to see if the province 
breaks before ring effects resolve. Therefore, if the 
province is broken, the ability on Pilgrimage that would 
have prevented the ring effect is inactive at the time the 
ring effect resolves.
◊If I use the card Contingency Plan (205) to change 
the value of an honor bid, do I adjust the setting on 
my dial?
No. This card only adjusts the value of your bid for the 
resolution of that bid. The setting on your dial remains 
where you set it until your next bid.
◊Can I use the effect of the Water ring to ready one of 
my characters that is participating in the conflict?
At the time the ring effects resolves, the characters 
participating in the conflict have not yet been bowed 
and returned home. So, if the character is ready, it will 
not be an eligible target to ready again. If a participating 
character in the conflict is bowed, you may use the 
Water ring effect to ready it, but this won’t accomplish 
much, as the character will soon bow again when it 
returns home.
◊If I break my own province by using the ability on 
Endless Plains (14), does the conflict end?
No. Continue to resolve the conflict through each of 
the conflict resolution steps. The conflict may affect 
the game in other ways (such as the ring effect or an 
unopposed result), and actions or reactions may still be 
played in reference to the conflict or its result. However, 
during the step to check if the defending province 
breaks, nothing occurs, as the province has already 
been broken.
Appendix II: Frequently Asked Questions

ILLUS. ALBERT TAVIRA
Action: Reveal the top 4 cards of each player’s 
conflict deck. Choose 1 revealed card owned 
by each player and add it to its owner’s hand. 
Shuffle.
He had refused twice, but could not bring 
himself to refuse a third time.
The Perfect Gift
Event
ILLUS. DARREN TAN
Reaction: After you lose a  conflict – put this 
character into play from your hand.
“When a samurai has said he will perform an action, it is as 
good as done.” – Akodo’s Leadership
Vengeful Oathkeeper
Character
Appendix III: 
Card Anatomy
This section presents a detailed anatomy 
of each cardtype.
Card Anatomy Key
1.	 Title: The name of the card.
2.	 Cost: The fate cost to play the card.
3.	 Cardtype: Indicates how a card is played 
or used during the game.
4.	 Clan Symbol: The card’s clan affiliation.
5.	 Military Skill: The character’s military skill 
6.	 Bonus Military Skill: The bonus value this 
military skill.
7.	 Political Skill: The character’s political skill 
8.	 Bonus Political Skill: The bonus value this 
political skill.
9.	 Glory: The card’s glory value.
10.	Element: This indicates the province’s 
elemental affiliation.
11.	Strength: The province’s strength value.
12.	Bonus Strength: The bonus strength 
provided to a province if this holding or 
stronghold is in it.
13.	Starting Honor: The amount of honor 
this stronghold provides at the start of the 
game.
14.	Fate Value: The amount of fate this 
stronghold provides each dynasty phase.
15.	Influence Value: The amount of influence 
this stronghold provides for deckbuilding.
16.	Traits: Descriptive attributes that may be 
referenced by card abilities.
17.	Ability: The card’s special means of 
interacting with the game.
18.	Influence Cost: The influence cost 
required to include this card in a conflict 
19.	Product Set Information: Indicates this 
card’s product of origin.

ILLUS. MATT ZEILINGER
ATTACHMENT
Condition.
Action: Play this attachment from your 
conflict discard pile.
“Oh blessed ancestors, hear my prayer! May the 
strength of your honor guide my steps and lead 
me to righteousness!”
Guidance of the Ancestors
Attachment
ILLUS. CONCEPTOPOLIS
HOLDING
Academy.
Action: During the conflict phase – 
reveal the top card of your conflict deck. 
Until the end of the phase, you may play 
that card as if it were in your hand.
Artisan Academy
Holding
Province

 ©2017 FFG 216A
Keeper of Fire
Increase your deckbuilding influence value by 3.
Reaction: After you win a  conflict as the 
defending player – gain 1 fate.
Keeper. Fire.
Role
Stronghold
Card Anatomy Key
1.	 Title: The name of the card.
2.	 Cost: The fate cost to play the card.
3.	 Cardtype: Indicates how a card is played 
or used during the game.
4.	 Clan Symbol: The card’s clan affiliation.
5.	 Military Skill: The character’s military skill 
6.	 Bonus Military Skill: The bonus value this 
military skill.
7.	 Political Skill: The character’s political skill 
8.	 Bonus Political Skill: The bonus value this 
political skill.
9.	 Glory: The card’s glory value.
10.	Element: This indicates the province’s 
elemental affiliation.
11.	Strength: The province’s strength value.
12.	Bonus Strength: The bonus strength 
provided to a province if this holding or 
stronghold is in it.
13.	Starting Honor: The amount of honor 
this stronghold provides at the start of the 
game.
14.	Fate Value: The amount of fate this 
stronghold provides each dynasty phase.
15.	Influence Value: The amount of influence 
this stronghold provides for deckbuilding.
16.	Traits: Descriptive attributes that may be 
referenced by card abilities.
17.	Ability: The card’s special means of 
interacting with the game.
18.	Influence Cost: The influence cost 
required to include this card in a conflict 
19.	Product Set Information: Indicates this 
card’s product of origin.

© 2017 Fantasy Flight Games. Legend of the Five Rings and Fantasy Flight Supply are TMs of 
Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games, the FFG logo, Living Card Game, LCG, and the 
LCG logo are ® Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1995 West County 
Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 651-639-1905. Actual components may vary from 
those shown. Made in China. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Playtesters: Aaron Wong, Aaron J. Wong (The Daimyō), 
Aidan Cox, Alan Bahr, Alex Konecky, Alex Wehbe, 
Alex Whitney, Andrew Summerhill, Andrew Young, 
Andrey Oveshnikov, Anette Hall, Antti “WWDrakey” 
Korventausta, Arthur Campbell, Az Johnston, Bastien 
Poujol, Ben Crowell, Ben Cumming, Ben Matthews, 
Benjamin Higgins, Benoit Sigal, Blake Wyatt, Bob 
Martin, Bob Stephens, Brad “Kolat Informant” Reeves, 
Brad Rollins, Bradley Bowling, Brandon Doughty, 
Brandon Zimmer, Brian Frost, Brodie Bensend, Callum 
Overfield, Carl Anderton, Carl DeBeer, Chris Goglia, 
Chris Hayes, Chris Hutcherson, CJ Heintz, Cory 
Hockman, Dan King, Daniel Landrum, Darren Hazelden, 
Darin Walsh, Dave Goss, Dave Hancock, David Pallett, 
David Reed, Derek Marantz, Devin Bell, Dmitriy Zoubko, 
Donovan Sparks, Doug Keester, Eric Hoath, Erich Ridlon, 
Erin Bahr, François “Silme” Martinez, Gaby Juif, Geoff 
Bergh, Gene Saunders, Grant Huddleston, Hwan-yi 
Choo, Jake “The Snake” Ryan, Iiro “Ire” Jalonen, James 
Taylor, James Waumsley, Jason Aubry, Jason Collins, 
Jason Erb, Jason M Wallace, Jason Riedinger, Jay 
Morgan, JD Wilkins, Jeff Lindsay, Jeff Woosley, Jeremy 
Zwirn, Jesse Anderson, Jesse Mariona, Jim Freeman, 
Joe Meredith, John Briggs, John Rogers, Jordan Dixon, 
Josh Wood, Joshua Bergmann, Joshua Bow, Jukka 
Raninen, Julien Buton, Julien Escalier, Justin Parker, 
Kelly Hoesing, Kevin Foster, Lachlan “Raith” Conley, 
Larik “mplain” Borts, LeAnn LaFollette, Liisa Ronkainen-
Lindroos, Mark Baker, Mark Delaney, Mark McLaughlin, 
Matrim Charlebois, Matt Demand, Matt Nott, Matthew 
Ley, Matthew Tyler, Matthew White, Max Way, Maxim 
Lazarev, Michael Hong, Michael Johnesee, Michael 
Lawrence, Michael Southern, Mike Brost Jr., Mike Cook, 
Monjoni Osso, Muxi “Lucas” Li, Nat Trahan, Nathalie 
Benies, Nathan Quinn, Nick Howard, Noah Smith, Paul 
Evans, Paul Moore, Paul Steiner, Peter Hilbelink, Rachel 
Backa, Randall Jurgens, Reginald “The Angry Crab” 
Garth, Rhett Jenkins, Ross Graham, Ryan Billington, Sam 
Suied, Samuel Benies, Shawn Sanders, Stéphane Alimi, 
Stetson Zirkelbach, Steve Mumford, Steven LaFollette, 
Stuart Siddons, Team Marike’s House, Thomas Pecqueur, 
Tobin “For JK” Lopes, Tom Capor, Tom MacKenzie, Tom 
Melucci, Tonya Segee, and Viktor “Cypher” Nelipovich
Special thanks to our beta testers!
Credits
Fantasy Flight Games
Game Design and Development: Brad Andres, 
Erik Dahlman, and Nate French
Additional Development: Daniel Lovat Clark, 
Chris Gerber, Caleb Grace, Lukas Litzsinger, 
Matthew Newman, Daniel Schaefer, Damon Stone, 
and Matthew Watson
Technical Editing: Kevin Hynes and Kevin Tomczyk
Proofreading: Christine Crabb
Graphic Design: Mercedes Opheim and Michael Silsby
Graphic Design Manager: Brian Schomburg
Cover Art: Darren Tan
Art Direction: Andy Christensen
Managing Art Director: Melissa Shetler
Fiction: Katrina Ostrander
Writing and Additional Setting Development: 
Marie Brennan, Robert Denton III, D.G. Laderoute, 
Annie VanderMeer Mitsoda, Mari Murdock, 
and Ree Soesbee
Senior Project Manager: John Franz-Wichlacz
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Creative Director: Andrew Navaro
Asmodee North America
Production Management: Jason Beaudoin and 
Megan Duehn
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Original L5R Property and Game Created by 
Ryan Dancey, Matt Staroscik, D.J. Trindle, Matt Wilson, 
Dave Williams, John Wick, and John Zinser.

Symbols and Icons
The following is a reference of the symbols and icons in 
Conflict Types
Military	
	
Politics	

Clan Symbols
Crab 	
	
Crane	

Dragon 	
	
Lion	

Phoenix 	 	
Scorpion	

Unicorn 	

Ring Symbols (with Ring Effects)
 Air: The attacking player takes 1 honor token from 
their opponent, or gains 2 honor.
 Earth: The attacking player draws 1 card from their 
conflict deck and discards 1 card at random from their 
opponent’s hand.
 Fire: The attacking player chooses a character in 
play and chooses to honor or dishonor that character.
 Water: The attacking player either chooses a 
character and readies it, or chooses a character with no 
fate on it and bows it.
 Void: The attacking player chooses a character and 
removes 1 fate from that character.
Phase Sequence
1.	 Dynasty phase (gain fate, play characters from 
provinces)
2.	 Draw phase (bid honor, draw cards)
3.	 Conflict phase (declare conflicts, contest Imperial 
Favor)
4.	 Fate phase (discard characters, remove fate, add 
fate to unclaimed rings)
5.	 Regroup phase (ready cards, discard cards from 
provinces, pass first player token)
Keywords
A keyword is an attribute that conveys specific rules to 
its card. The following serves as a quick reminder of 
how each keyword functions. For complete rules on a 
keyword, see the Rules Reference.
Ancestral: When the card to which an Ancestral 
attachment is attached would leave play, the Ancestral 
attachment returns to its owner’s hand instead of being 
discarded.
Courtesy: When this card leaves play, its controller 
gains one fate.
Covert: When this character is declared as an attacker, 
you may choose a character that does not have covert. 
That character cannot be declared as a defender for this 
conflict during the “declare defenders” step.
Limited: A player may not play more than one limited 
card each round from their provinces and/or their hand.
No Attachments: This card cannot have attachments 
attached to it.
Pride: When this character wins a conflict, honor it. 
When this character loses a conflict, dishonor it.
Restricted: A character can never have more than two 
restricted attachments attached to it.
Sincerity: When this card leaves play, its controller 
draws one card from their conflict deck.