Gabriele Mari Gianluca Santopietro
— r e v i s e d e d i t i o n —
L e t t e r s f r o m
L e t t e r s f r o m
™
Rulebook

- 2 -
London, 1888. 
As soon as you get off the coach, 
you realize this is the wrong stop. 
A few minutes ago you were in 
the posh city center, but now 
crowded and smelly alleys 
branch off around you. Hawkers, 
shouting merchants, and dirty 
children covered in rags who 
run through the crowd and 
pull your jacket, begging for 
money... all you see is poverty 
and dreariness. Some people call 
this district hell. Some others–less 
lucky-call it home. 
Here, for a penny or less, 
you can see street acrobats and 
freak shows, or you can get 
drunk in one of the pubs. 
Prostitutes, those lonely wretched 
souls, haunt every street corner. 
These are his hunting grounds. 
Welcome to Whitechapel. 
Welcome to Jack the Ripper’s streets.
game design
Gabriele Mari and Gianluca Santopietro
Rules
Gabriele Mari, Gianluca Santopietro, 
and e-Nigma.it
historical research
Gabriele Mari with Giacomo Santopietro
development
e-Nigma.it
Editing
Gabriele Mari
art direction
Gianluca Santopietro
Artwork
Gianluca Santopietro
graphic design
Demis Savini for e-Nigma.it
photos
Alessandro Lonzi and Rob Robinson
Playtesting
Andrea Chiarvesio, GiocaTorino crew, 
Francesco Villani, Michele Patuelli, 
Monica Socci, Alessandro Zandoli, Simona 
Alessandri, Giacomo Giannotti, Thomas 
Franco, Massimiliano Rossi, Roberto 
Argalia, Devil Pierantoni, Roberto Benelli, 
Katjuscia Ceccarelli, the players of Essen 
Spiel 2009 and 2010, the players of La 
Ludoteca dei Cacciatori di Teste, the players 
of Lucca Games 2010 led by Giada Ghetti, 
Mario Cortese, Loris Casagrandi and 
his crew, the players of BoardGameGeek 
particularly Don C. Donelson, Chris 
Norwood, Andrew Stanley-Jones, Peter 
Dalemans, Rob Robinson. All players of 
Play 2012.
collaborators
Monica Socci and Francesco Villani
production
Giacomo Santopietro for Sir Chester 
Cobblepot, Silvio Negri-Clementi for Giochi 
Uniti srl.
FANTASY FLIGHT GAMES TEAM
Mark O’Connor and Steven Kimball
© 2012 Tiopi srl. Letters from Whitechapel and Sir Chester 
Cobblepot are trademarks owned by Tiopi srl. All rights reserved. 
Letters from Whitechapel is distributed worldwide in the English 
language by Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games and the 
FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights 
reserved to their respective owners. Fantasy Flight Games is located 
at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 
55113, USA, and can be reached by telephone at 651-639-1905. 
Retain this information for your records. Warning! Not suitable for 
children under 3 years due to small parts. Choking hazard. Actual 
components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
SirChesterCobblepot.com
GiochiUniti.it
FantasyFlightGames.com

- 3 -
Letters from Whitechapel™ is a game of deduction and bluffing set 
in 1888, in the London of Jack the Ripper. It is a game for two to six 
players, age 14 or older.
9 Goal of the Game 9
Five important detectives are on the trail of Jack the Ripper, the 
most infamous serial killer of all time. They must chase the mysterious 
murderer through the tangled streets and alleys of the Whitechapel 
district. One player plays Jack the Ripper, and his goal is to take five 
victims before being caught. The rest of the players are police detectives 
who must cooperate to catch Jack the Ripper before the end of the game.
9 Contents of the Box 9
This box contains:
–	This rulebook;
–	1 Game board representing the Whitechapel district in 1888;
–	6 Reference sheets
–	4 Jack’s Letter sheets (Dear Boss, Saucy Jacky, From Hell, and 
Goulston Street);
–	1 Die-cut punchboard containing:
-	 5 Head of the Investigation tiles (1 each of blue, yellow, brown, 
red, and green);
-	 5 Special Movement tokens (3 Coach and 2 Alley);
–	7 Black wooden Police Patrol tokens (2 false tokens, and 1 each of 
blue, yellow, brown, red, and green);
–	8 White wooden Woman tokens, 5 marked with red and 3 unmarked;
–	1 Red wooden Time of the Crime token;
–	5 White wooden Wretched pawns;
–	5 Wooden Policeman pawns (1 each of blue, yellow, brown, red, and 
green);
–	2 Black wooden Jack pawns;
–	1 Jack the Ripper screen;
–	1 Pad of Jack the Ripper move track sheets;
–	3 Transparent blue plastic False Clue markers;
–	19 Transparent yellow plastic Clue markers; and
–	5 Transparent red plastic Crime Scene markers.
the designers
Gabriele Mari, on the right 
in the picture, and Gianluca 
Santopietro, at his left.
Born in 1973 in Ravenna (Italy), 
Gabriele Mari, in addition to 
being an educator for people 
with autism and psychological 
disease, is a game designer and 
a copywriter. Other games by 
him are Garibaldi™ La Trafila, 
and Mister X™ Flucht Durch 
Europa. 
Born in 1962 in Ravenna 
(Italy), Gianluca Santopietro 
is a game designer, graphic 
designer, art director, developer, 
and playtester. His first game 
published was Sì, Oscuro 
Padrino™, followed by 
MotoGrandPrix™, Prodigy™ 
GameCards, and Collapsible 
D™ The Final Minutes of the 
Titanic.
They worked together on Letters 
from Whitechapel™ and also on 
Ravenna™ Fatto d’Arme.
™

- 4 -
new components
In this revised edition of 
Letters from Whitechapel™, 
many components have been 
improved from the previous 
edition based on the comments 
and reviews of players from all 
over the world.
Jack the Ripper screen: Its 
usability is improved. The map 
is bigger, and the chart of the 
Special Movement tokens is now 
shown on it, so players don’t 
have to look at the rulebook 
during the game. The new 
physical design allows the screen 
to stand up by itself and better 
protect the secret information of 
Jack from the other players.
Wooden tokens: Through 
repeated use of the Women, 
Patrol, and Time of the Crime 
tokens, these components can 
become marked. Now they are 
made of wood to make it harder 
for them to become damaged and 
marked.
Markers: Some of the plastic 
discs now are different colors to 
help them stand out more on the 
game board. The Clue markers 
are now yellow and the False 
Clue markers are blue.
Letters: The Letters’ effects 
are now described in detail on the 
Letters, so players don’t have to 
refer to the rulebook during the 
game to use them.
Rulebook: The rules of 
the game are unchanged, but 
the official errata have been 
integrated into the rulebook. 
Game Com
Jack the Ripper screen
 Wooden tokens
(one for each 
Policeman and for 
Jack the Ripper)
Back
Front 
in five colors (one 
for each Policeman)
Referenc
Game
Tiles
C
Woman
(8)
Patrol
(7)
Time of the 
Crime (1)
Jack the Ripp
T
Pad o

- 5 -
mponents
h 
M
π
Letters
Jack
(2)
Policeman
(1 for each player color)
Dear Boss 
From Hell
Saucy Jacky
Goulston 
Street
ce sheets
e board
Transparent plastic markers
Coach
(3)
Alley
(2)
per move track sheet
Tokens
Wooden pawns
Clues
(19)
of 30 sheets
False 
Clues (3)
Crime 
Scene (5)
Wretched
(5)

- 6 -
Place the game board 
representing Whitechapel at the 
time of Jack the Ripper at the center of 
the table. It is marked with 195 
numbered circles linked together by 
dotted lines.
During play, Jack the Ripper, 
the Policemen, and the 
Wretched are moved along the dotted 
lines that represent Whitechapel streets.
Jack the Ripper moves stealthily 
between numbered circles.
Policemen move on their patrols 
between Crossings (without worrying 
about whether the Crossings have 
colored borders or not).
The Wretched wander alone between 
numbered circles.
One player becomes Jack the 
Ripper (the most experienced 
player is a good choice). The other 
players become the detectives. The 
detectives always work together. They 
distribute the five Policeman pawns 
among themselves in any way they 
agree on.
Jack takes a fresh move 
track sheet from the pad 
and places it in his Jack the Ripper 
screen. He will also need a pencil (not 
included).
Jack places a black Jack 
pawn on the first Night 
space of the game board’s Night track.
Jack chooses numbered circle 90 
as his Hideout.
Jack secretly chooses his 
Hideout. He may chose any 
numbered circle on the game board except 
a red numbered circle. When he has chosen 
his Hideout, Jack writes its number on his 
move track sheet in the prominent oval at 
the top. Jack’s goal will be to return to his 
Hideout after each murder without being 
arrested by the police detectives.
Preparing the Game
Historical Notes: narrates 
what happened in 1888
Policeman pawn
Red numbered circle: Jack 
will place the Wretched here
Head of the Investigation: 
randomly determined by 
the revealed tile
Jack’s screen with 
a move track sheet 
inserted correctly
Move track: a black Jack 
pawn tracks Jack’s moves
The Head of the Investigation 
decides how to place the 
Policemen on the game board
Numbered circle
Crossing
Time of the Crime token
Woman token unmarked
« 

- 7 -
Jack collects the Crime 
Scene markers, the Clue 
markers, the Woman tokens, the Coach 
and Alley Special Movement tokens, 
and the Time of the Crime token. If the 
optional rules (see page 22) are being 
used, Jack also collects the Jack’s 
Letter sheets and the False Clue 
markers.
The six Reference sheets 
are distributed to the 
police detective players in the same 
way the pawns were divided, and one 
is given to the Jack player as well.
One of the police 
detective players shuffles 
the Head of the Investigation tiles 
and piles them facedown, in a random 
order, on the provided space of the 
game board.
The police detective 
players collect the 
Wretched pawns and the Police Patrol 
tokens. The game begins!
5 Crime Scene 
markers
19 Clue markers
Wretched pawn
Patrol token marked (green)
Patrol token unmarked
Night track: a Jack pawn 
tracks the Nights played
Special Movement chart 
(Coach and Alley)
Hideout: where Jack writes the 
number of his secret destination
Reproduction 
of the game board
Woman token 
marked
Crossing (yellow bordered)
Hideout (chosen by Jack for this game)
5 Special Movement tokens
3 Coach and 2 Alley

- 8 -
9 How to Play 9
A game of Letters from Whitechapel™ is divided into four Nights:
First Night (August 31st, 1888)
Second Night (September 8th, 1888)
Third Night (September 30th, 1888) the “double event”
Fourth Night (November 9th, 1888)
Each Night is divided into two parts. Each part is composed of a 
number of different phases. Each phase names either Jack the Ripper or 
the Police as responsible for carrying out its particular activities.
First Part: HELL
Jack the Ripper: Preparing the Scene
Jack the Ripper: The Targets are Identified
Police: Patrolling the Streets
Jack the Ripper: The Victims are Chosen
Jack the Ripper: Blood on the Streets
Police: Suspense Grows
Jack the Ripper: Ready to Kill
Jack the Ripper: A Corpse on the Sidewalk
Police: Alarm Whistles
Second Part: HUNTING
Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night
Police: Hunting the Monster
Police: Clues and Suspicion
DECEMBER 1887
Monday the 26th. The dead 
body of the wretched called Fairy 
Fay is said to have been found 
in the Commercial Road Alley 
[65]. However, there were no 
recorded murders in Whitechapel 
on or around Christmas of that 
year. Many contemporary 
authors agree that Fairy Fay 
was fabricated by the press of the 
time.
Œ
≠

- 9 -
Playing the Game
9 First Part: Hell 9
Darkness falls on the notorious alleys of Whitechapel and fear 
becomes palpable for those who wander in the night. Every shadow could 
be Jack’s own.
1. 
Jack the Ripper: Preparing the Scene
Jack collects Special Movement tokens (Coach and Alley):
Night
Special Movement tokens
August 31st, 1888
3 Coach tokens and 2 Alley tokens
September 8th, 1888
2 Coach tokens and 2 Alley tokens
September 30th, 1888
2 Coach tokens and 1 Alley token
November 9th, 1888
1 Coach token and 1 Alley token
2. 
Jack the Ripper: The Targets are Identified
Jack collects Woman tokens according to which night it is:
Night
Woman tokens
August 31st, 1888
8 Women, 5 of which are marked
September 8th, 1888
7 Women, 4 of which are marked
September 30th, 1888
6 Women, 3 of which are marked
November 9th, 1888
4 Women, 1 of which is marked
Jack places the Woman tokens facedown on red numbered circles of the 
game board. He may arrange them any way he wishes.
The Woman tokens marked with red on their faces represent Jack the 
Ripper’s possible targets. The Woman tokens with only white on their faces are 
fake targets, used to confuse the police detectives, according to Jack’s strategy.
Remember, the red-marked faces remain hidden as Jack places them. Jack is 
the only one who knows the actual targets!
Note: On the second and subsequent Nights of the game, Jack cannot place 
Woman tokens on the red numbered circles occupied by red Crime Scene 
markers.
APRIL 1888
Tuesday the 3rd. Emma Smith 
was viciously assaulted at the 
junction of Osborn Street and 
Brick Lane [84] in the early 
hours of the day. She survived 
the attack and managed to return 
to her lodging house at 18 George 
Street in Spitalfields. She was 
taken to the London Hospital, 
where she fell into a coma and 
died the next day at 9:00 a.m. She 
had claimed to have been attacked 
by three men.
Saturday the 7th. The inquest 
of Emma Smith’s death was 
conducted by the coroner for 
East Middlesex, Wynne 
Edwin Baxter, and attended 
by the local inspector of the 
Metropolitan Police Service, 
H Division Whitechapel, 
Edmund Reid [green Head of the 
Investigation].
I

- 10 -
Jack places Woman tokens facedown on red numbered circles. He is the 
only one who knows which ones are marked. His next victim is among 
them!
3. 
Police: Patrolling the Streets
The detectives turn over the top tile of the Head of the Investigation pile. The 
player controlling the Policeman of the corresponding color is the Head of the 
Investigation for the current Night.
The Head of the Investigation leads the investigation. On the first Night, he 
places the seven Police Patrol tokens on the yellow-bordered Crossings in any 
arrangement he wishes.
Some of the tokens have faces marked with the five colors of the Policeman 
pawns. Two tokens (the completely black ones) are fake Patrols, used to 
confuse Jack, according to the Head of the Investigation’s strategy.
Remember, the marked faces of the Police Patrol tokens remain hidden as 
they are placed. The Head of the Investigation is the only one who knows the 
actual positions of the Policemen!
The Head of the Investigation places the Police Patrol tokens on the 
game board. Jack must guess where the Policemen are and try not to get 
caught!
AUGUST 1888
Tuesday the 7th. Martha 
Tabram was murdered around 
2:30 a.m. Her body was found near 
George Yard Buildings, in George 
Yard. She had died as a result of 
multiple stab wounds.
Friday the 31st. Mary Ann 
Nichols was murdered. Her body 
was found around 3:45 a.m. lying 
outside the entrance of a stable 
in Buck’s Row (later renamed 
Durward Street)[21], not far 
from the London Hospital. 
Investigations were attended by 
the Bethnal Green Division of 
the Metropolitan Police. The 
possibility that this might be the 
work of a serial killer caught the 
attention of some Scotland Yard 
detectives, including Frederick 
Abberline [red Head of the 
Investigation].


- 11 -
From the second Night on, the Head of the Investigation places the Police 
Patrol tokens as he wishes among seven locations according to the following 
restrictions:
– 	 Five of the tokens must be placed on the positions that were occupied 
by the Policeman pawns at the end of the previous Night. The tokens 
do not need to match the colors of the pawns that previously occupied the 
positions, and they can also be fake patrols.
– 	 Two tokens must be placed on yellow-bordered Crossings that were not 
occupied by Policeman pawns at the end of the previous night.
On the second Night, the new Head of the Investigation places the Police 
Patrol tokens. He must place a token where each Policeman pawn was 
left from the Night before, but he may also place tokens on two yellow-
bordered Crossings, and may mix up the placement of real and fake Patrols 
to improve the detective’s strategy, hoping to confuse Jack and control the 
game board. The Police are getting ready to hunt Jack once again!
Optional Rule: From the second Night onward, after the Police Patrol tokens 
have been placed, Jack can use one Jack’s Letter each Night (see “Jack’s Letters,” 
page 22).
4. 
Jack the Ripper: The Victims are Chosen
All of the Woman tokens are turned faceup. Those marked with red are 
replaced with Wretched pawns. Those not marked are simply removed from 
the game board. The Time of the Crime token is placed on the yellow Roman 
numeral I of the move track.
September 1888
Saturday the 8th. Annie 
Chapman’s body was found 
at about 6:00 a.m., lying on the 
ground near a doorway in the 
backyard on 29 Hanbury Street, 
Spitalfields [3]. The autopsy 
revealed that portions of her 
internal organs were missing. 
The pathologist, George Baxter 
Phillips, believed the murderer 
must have possessed notable 
anatomical knowledge to have 
removed them with such precision.
Monday the 10th. John 
“Leather Apron” Pizer, a renowned 
Whitechapel bootmaker with a 
reputation for terrorizing local 
streetwalkers, was arrested for 
the murder of two prostitutes. 
He was cleared of suspicion 
when it turned out he had an 
alibi. One Mrs. Long, a witness, 
described the murderer as over 
forty, a little taller than Annie 
Chapman, of dark complexion, 
and well-dressed with a dark hat 
and a cloak. The Whitechapel 
Vigilance Committee, under 
the chairmanship of George 
Lusk [yellow Head of the 
Investigation], was founded, 
and it offered a reward for the 
apprehension of the killer. The 
Committee employed two private 
detectives to investigate the case.

- 12 -
As the tokens are revealed, Jack’s strategy becomes clear. 
5. 
Jack the Ripper: Blood on the Streets
Now, Jack must decide whether to kill a target or wait a little bit longer. 
Waiting gives Jack more time to escape, but also gives the Head of the 
Investigation the opportunity to move the Wretched pawns in ways that might 
inconvenience Jack. (But if the Time of the Crime token is on the Roman 
numeral “V,” Jack can no longer wait and must choose to kill.)
If Jack decides to kill, he chooses one of the Wretched pawns on the game 
board and replaces it with a Crime Scene marker. Return the Wretched pawn 
and one red-marked Woman token to the game box. 
If Jack decides to wait, the Night continues with phase 6, “Police: Suspense 
Grows.”
Jack chooses his victim and converts the Wretched pawn into a Crime 
Scene marker. A corpse lies butchered on the street!
Note: On the third Night, September 30th, there are two murders. See “The 
Third Night: The Double Event,” page 21, for the relevant rules.
If Jack decides to kill, the Night then continues with phase 8, “Jack the 
Ripper: A Corpse on the Sidewalk.”
September 1888
Thursday the 27th. The Central 
News Agency received the 
“Dear Boss” letter in which its 
author, Jack the Ripper, claimed 
responsibility for the murders.
Sunday the 30th. The body 
of prostitute Elizabeth Stride 
was discovered at about 1:00 a.m. 
in Dutfield’s Yard [158], inside 
the gateway of 40 Berner Street 
(since renamed Henriques 
Street). She had been killed just 
minutes before. Some suspect 
the murderer was disturbed by 
someone entering the yard.
Later that same night, at 1:45 
a.m., Catherine Eddowes’ body 
was found at the southwest 
corner of Mitre Square [149], 
about 12 minutes’ walk from 
Berner Street. At 3:00 a.m., a 
blood-stained fragment of 
Eddowes’ apron was found near 
the doorway to 108–119 Goulston 
Street [A5/b8]. Chalk writing was 
on the wall near the doorway. At 
5:00 a.m., Commissioner Warren 
[blue Head of the Investigation] 
attended the scene and ordered 
the words erased.


- 13 -
6. 
Police: Suspense Grows
First, the Time of the Crime token is moved on to the next yellow Roman 
numeral in ascending order. Then, the Head of the Investigation must move 
each of the Wretched pawns on the game board. Each one must move along 
dotted lines to an adjacent, unoccupied numbered circle.
The Time of the Crime token is advanced to the next ascending 
Roman numeral, and the Wretched pawns are moved by the Head of the 
Investigation.
The Wretched pawn on numbered circle 65 must move. The Head of the 
Investigation must chose a destination from among numbered circles 63, 
66, 51, 67, 84, 83, and 82. He chooses 82 and moves the Wretched pawn 
there.
A Wretched pawn must obey the following movement restrictions. It cannot:
– 	end its movement adjacent to a Police Patrol token;
– 	cross a Police Patrol token during the Wretched’s movement; or
– 	end its movement in a circle containing a Crime Scene marker.
If a Wretched has no legal moves it remains in its current circle.
7. 
Jack the Ripper: Ready to Kill
Jack chooses a Police Patrol token and reveals it. If it is a fake Patrol (with a 
black face), it is removed from the game board. Otherwise, it remains on the 
OCTOBER 1888
Monday the 1st. A postcard, 
dubbed the “Saucy Jacky” postcard 
and also signed “Jack the Ripper” 
was received by the Central News 
Agency. It claimed responsibility 
for the most recent murders and 
described the murders of the two 
women as the “double event.”
Tuesday the 2nd. An 
unidentified female body was 
found in the basement of New 
Scotland Yard. It was linked to 
the Whitechapel murders files. 
This case became known as the 
Whitehall Mystery.
Monday the 15th. George Lusk 
of the Whitechapel Vigilance 
Committee received the “From 
Hell” letter.
]
N


- 14 -
game board, faceup. Then, the game continues with another iteration of Hell 
phase 5, “Jack the Ripper: Blood on the Streets.”
8. 
Jack the Ripper: A Corpse on the Sidewalk
Using his pencil, Jack records on his sheet, in the space corresponding to the 
Roman numeral currently marked by the Time of the Crime token, and on the 
row corresponding to the current Night, the number from the numbered circle 
that’s marked by the Crime Scene token he just placed on the game board. Jack is 
now located at that numbered circle. For the rest of the Night he will be moving 
between circles, trying to get back to his Hideout without being caught. To 
prepare for the Hunting, Jack places the second Jack pawn on the game board’s 
move track, on the space marked by the Time of the Crime token. That Jack pawn 
is used to keep track of Jack’s moves while he tries to escape.
Jack’s victim is on numbered circle 82. Jack notes “82” on his sheet in 
the space corresponding to the Roman numeral “II,” as marked by the 
Time of the Crime token. He does this on the first line of his sheet because 
this is the first night of the game. 
9. 
Police: Alarm Whistles
The detectives reveal all the Police Patrol tokens that have not yet been 
revealed. They replace the color-marked tokens with the corresponding 
Policeman pawns and remove the fake tokens from the game board. They also 
remove from the game board any Wretched pawns still in play.
NOVEMBER 1888
Friday the 9th. Mary Jane 
Kelly was murdered in the 
single room where she lived at 13 
Miller’s Court, behind 26 Dorset 
Street, Spitalfields [27]. Kelly’s 
body was discovered shortly after 
10:45 a.m., lying on the bed.
Sunday the 18th. Charles 
Warren resigned as Commissioner 
of the Metropolitan Police. 
James Monro was appointed as 
his replacement.

- 15 -
The Policeman pawns enter the game, replacing the color-coded Police 
Patrol tokens. Unmarked Police Patrol tokens are simply removed from the 
game board. Now the police must be quick to stop the monster!
The Hunting begins!
9 Second Part: Hunting 9
Jack the Ripper is somewhere on the streets, and must be caught before 
he disappears again!
1. 
Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night
Jack moves from his current numbered circle to an adjacent numbered circle, 
following the dotted lines. He may not move over a Crossing occupied by a 
Policeman pawn. Jack plots his move secretly, noting his destination circle on 
his sheet in the next available space to the right of his current location, in the 
row representing the current Night. 
Once his destination has been secretly noted, Jack moves his Jack pawn one 
space rightward on the game board’s move track. His pawn’s location should 
always correspond on the track to the Roman or Arabic numeral of the move he 
just made.
Jack makes his move from numbered circle 127 (his previous location) to 
numbered circle 103. He writes the new number on his sheet in the next 
available space. Then he moves the Jack pawn one space rightward on the 
track on the game board. Jack skulks down Whitechapel streets, hidden in 
the shadows...
Note: Jack cannot choose a destination that would force him to move over a 
Crossing occupied by a Policeman pawn. If, for this reason, Jack cannot make a 
legal move, he loses the game!
DECEMBER 1888
Thursday the 20th. A 
Patrolling constable found 
prostitute Rose Mylett dead in 
Clarke’s Yard, off Poplar High 
Street [147].
e
π
M

- 16 -
If he wishes, Jack can replace his normal movement with a Special Movement. 
To do so, he must expend a Coach or Alley token. See “Special Movements,” 
page 19, for more information. If Jack moves onto his Hideout, he may declare 
that his escape was successful, and the current Night’s Hunting ends. See “The 
End of the Hunting,” page 18, for more information. If Jack runs out of moves 
(that is, if he fills in the “15” square on his sheet) without reaching his Hideout 
and declaring his escape, he loses the game. See “The End of the Game,” page 
22, for more information. 
2. 
Police: Hunting the Monster
After consulting together, the detectives move their Policeman pawns. Each 
player moves the pawn(s) whose Policemen he controls, starting with the Head 
of the Investigation and proceeding clockwise around the table. If a player 
controls multiple pawns, he chooses the order in which he moves them.
The Policeman pawns are moved along the dotted lines. When moving, a 
policeman can move up to a distance of two (0, 1, or 2) Crossings. Policeman 
pawns ignore numbered circles when moving.
The yellow Policeman pawn moves two Crossings. If Jack traveled down 
that street, he surely left a clue!
When moving, a Policeman pawn can move over other Policeman pawns, but 
cannot end its move in the same Crossing as another Policeman pawn.
3. 
Police: Clues and Suspicion
Optional Rule: If the False Clue optional rule is being used, Jack can collect 
and use False Clue markers in this phase. See “False Clues,” page 23.
Starting with the Head of the Investigation and proceeding clockwise around 
the table, each detective states, for each Policeman pawn he controls, that the 
Policeman is either looking for clues or executing an arrest. 
Both types of actions can be undertaken in the numbered circles adjacent to 
that Policeman pawn (i.e., in the numbered circles directly connected by dotted 
lines to the Crossing where the Policeman pawn is located). There cannot be an 
intervening Crossing on the dotted line connecting the Crossing the Policeman 
pawn is on and the circle he wants to search for clues or make an arrest in.
JULY 1889
Wednesday the 17th. Alice 
McKenzie was murdered in 
Castle Alley. Her wounds were 
not as deep as those of previous 
victims, however.
Œ

- 17 -
Numbered circles 99, 100, and 120 are adjacent to the yellow 
Policeman pawn. Circle 83 is not adjacent, because the route to 83 is 
interrupted by a Crossing.
Each Policeman pawn can execute only one action. That is, it can either 
look for clues or execute an arrest, but not both. (However, if a player controls 
several Policeman pawns, he can choose a different action for each one.)
Looking for Clues
To look for clues, the detective announces the number of an 
adjacent numbered circle he wishes to inspect. Jack checks to see 
if that number appears anywhere on his sheet in the current 
Night’s row. If it does, he places a Clue marker on that numbered circle, and 
that Policeman’s action ends. If it does not appear, the detective announces the 
number of another adjacent numbered circle. This process repeats until either a 
Clue marker is placed or no more adjacent numbered circles remain to be 
inspected.
The yellow Policeman decides to look for clues. He announces “99!” That 
number does not appear in the current Night’s row, so Jack replies negatively. 
The yellow Policeman calls “100!” That number does appear in the current 
Night’s row, so Jack places a Clue token on the corresponding numbered 
circle. Jack’s been there tonight... but how long ago? Even through numbered 
circle 120 is also adjacent to the yellow Policeman’s location, the yellow 
Policeman cannot investigate it now because finding a clue ends his action.
AUGUST 1889
Tuesday the 10th. An 
unidentified woman’s body was 
found under a railway arch in 
Pinchin Street, just as with the 
Whitehall Mystery.
JUNE 1890
Saturday the 21st. James 
Monro was replaced as 
Commissioner by Sir Edward 
Bradford.
›
‹

- 18 -
Optional Rules: If the False Clue rule is being used, Jack receives a False Clue 
marker every time he reveals five Clue markers in the same Night. See “False 
Clues,” page 23, for more information.
Executing an Arrest
To execute an arrest, the detective announces the number of one 
(and only one!) numbered circle that is adjacent to his Policeman 
pawn. If the announced number is Jack’s current location (that is, 
the most recent number Jack recorded on his sheet), Jack is arrested and loses 
the game. If the announced number is not Jack’s current location, no further 
information is given and that Policeman’s action ends.
The yellow Policeman decides to execute an arrest. He chooses circle 99 
which is adjacent. Jack checks his current location and replies negatively. 
If Jack isn’t there, where is he?
If Jack has neither been caught nor reached his Hideout after all Policemen 
have taken actions, play proceeds with another iteration of Hunting phase 1, 
“Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night.”
The End of the Hunting
If Jack is on the numbered circle he chose as his Hideout, he may declare his 
escape, and the Hunting – and with it, the Night – ends. 
Remove all Clue markers from the game board. Leave the Policeman pawns 
and Crime Scene markers in place. Remove the Special Movement tokens and 
the Jack pawn from the move track. If the False Clue optional rules are being 
used, discard any unused False Clue markers. 
The next Night then begins with Hell phase 1, “Jack the Ripper: Preparing 
the Scene.” Jack moves his Jack pawn to the next Night on the Night track. 
Remember: If Jack fails to reach his Hideout and declare his escape by the 
end of the last possible move on his move track sheet (square “15”), he loses 
the game.
February 1891
Friday the 13th. Frances Coles 
was murdered under a railway 
arch in Royal Mint Street. A 
man named James Sandler, 
who had been seen with Coles 
earlier, was arrested by the police 
and charged with her murder. A 
high-profile investigation by 
Donald Swanson [brown Head 
of the Investigation] and Henry 
Moore into Sandler’s history 
and his whereabouts at the time of 
the previous Whitechapel murders 
suggests that the police suspected 
him of being Jack the Ripper.
‚

- 19 -
9 Special Movements 9
Instead of carrying out a normal movement, Jack can decide to use one of his 
Special Movement tokens. When used, a Special Movement token is placed on 
the space(s) of the move track corresponding to the turn that move was made. 
That token cannot be used again that Night. If Jack uses a Special Movement 
token, he must apply its effects. He cannot use a Special Movement token and 
then make a normal movement, instead.
Important: Jack cannot declare his escape if he just used a Special Movement 
to move onto his Hideout. The last move that takes Jack into his Hideout must 
always be a normal move.
There are two kinds of Special Movements:
Coach: Jack can use a Coach to move to two adjacent 
numbered circles in succession on the game board at once like 
a double move. Moreover, with the Coach, Jack can move 
through Crossings containing Policeman pawns. The two 
numbered circles involved in a Coach move must be different from each other and 
from the circle he started the move from. Both of the circles he moved to must be 
recorded in separate places on Jack’s sheet in the proper order. Jack’s pawn on the 
move track is moved twice, and the Coach token is placed so it covers both of 
those spaces on the move track. Jack can use three Coaches on the first Night, two 
on each of the second and third Nights, and one on the fourth Night.
Jack is on numbered circle 103 and decides to use a Coach. Jack secretly 
chooses and records the two numbered circles involved in the movement: 
first 69, then 56. Now Jack is on numbered circle 56, but one of his Special 
Movements for the Night has been expended. He places a Coach token to 
cover two spaces on the move track, as a reminder for the detectives. He 
moves his Jack pawn two spaces on the move track. Hooves clatter on the 
cobblestones: few people can afford a coach in London...
MARCH 1891
Tuesday the 3rd. James Sadler 
was released for lack of evidence.
1896
In 1896, the Whitechapel 
murders were closed.
The murderer or murderers 
were never identified.
The cases remain unsolved.
ù
103 69

- 20 -
Alley: Jack can use an Alley to cross a block of houses, moving 
from one numbered circle on that block’s perimeter to any 
other numbered circle on that perimeter. A block of houses is 
an area of the game board that’s completely bounded, but not interrupted, by 
dotted lines. 
When Jack uses an Alley, he places that token on the corresponding space of 
the move track. Jack can use two Alleys on each of the first and second Nights 
and one Alley on each of the third and fourth Nights.
Jack is on numbered circle 56 and decides to use an Alley. His legal 
destinations on the block of houses to his south are 57, 73, 72, 71, 70, and 
69. He chooses numbered circle 72 as his destination, and he records that 
number in the next square of his sheet. He places the Alley token on the 
move track as a reminder for the detectives, then he moves his Jack pawn 
one space forward, as usual. The labyrinthine back alleys of Whitechapel 
can greatly complicate matters for the police detectives...
≥

- 21 -
9 The Third Night: The Double Event 9
On the third Night, September 30th, Jack the Ripper must kill two of the 
Wretched. 
Normal procedures are followed with the exception that Jack chooses two 
victims instead of one during phase 5, “Jack the Ripper: Blood on the Streets.”
Jack chooses two Wretched pawns and replaces each one with a Crime Scene 
marker. Then he notes the number of those two numbered circles on his sheet 
in two consecutive cells: the one indicated by the Time of the Crime token and 
the one to its right. He may record them in either order, as he prefers.
Note: Because the second Crime Scene of the third Night counts as Jack’s first 
move that Night, the detectives act first, with play starting from Hunting phase 2, 
“Police: Hunting the Monster.” The Hunting then proceeds as normal.
Jack starts his escape from the location corresponding to the second 
(rightmost) number he recorded. Jack places his Jack pawn on the space to the 
right of the Time of the Crime token on the Move track, as Jack’s “movement” 
from the first crime scene to the second uses up his first move of the night. The 
detectives know both crime scenes, but not their order, so they cannot be sure 
exactly where Jack is at the beginning of the third Night’s Hunting.
On the third Night, Jack chooses two victims, placing Crime Scene 
markers on each of the numbered circles 3 and 27. He secretly records on 
his sheet “27” and then “3.” His second (rightmost) victim is the one on 
numbered circle 3, the location from which he’ll begin his escape... But the 
detectives don’t know which one is the correct one! 
≤
…

- 22 -
The End of the Game
Jack the Ripper wins the game if he kills five victims without being caught, 
returning safely to his Hideout at the end of all four Nights. The police 
detectives win the game if they catch Jack, or prevent him from reaching his 
Hideout within the permitted number of moves.
You are now ready to play!
Optional Rules
9 To Help Jack the Ripper 9
Jack’s Letters
On each of the second, third, and fourth Nights, Jack the Ripper can use one 
Jack’s Letter to change the position of the Police Patrols. A Letter can only 
be used after the Police Patrol tokens have been placed. Once a given Letter 
is used and its effect applied, that Letter is removed from the game. Another 
Letter cannot be used until the next Night. Three of the Letters (Dear Boss, 
Saucy Jack, and From Hell) are played during the Hell phase 3, “Police: 
Patrolling the Streets.” The remaining Letter (Goulston Street) is played during 
Hunting phase 1, “Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night.”
These are the effects of each Letter:
“Dear Boss”
Jack moves a Police Patrol token (without looking at whether it 
is marked) from the A/a or C/b section of the game board to any 
unoccupied yellow-bordered Crossing.
“Saucy Jacky”
Jack chooses two Police Patrol tokens from the B/a or B/b 
sections of the game board. The Head of the Investigation moves 
both of them to any other unoccupied yellow-bordered Crossings.
“From Hell”
Jack moves a Police Patrol token (without looking at whether it 
is marked) from the A/b or C/a section of the game board to any 
unoccupied yellow-bordered Crossing.
“Goulston Street”
This Letter represent graffiti rather than an actual letter. It is played 
during the Hunting, immediately after Jack has moved in phase 
1, “Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night,” but before any of the 
Policemen move in phase 2, “Police: Hunting the Monster.” When 
Jack uses this Letter, Jack chooses either the red, green, or blue 
Policeman pawns. Then, the Head of the Investigation selects either the chosen 
pawn (which represents the Metropolitan police) or the brown pawn (which 
represents the City of London police) and must immediately move that pawn to 
Goulston Street, which is indicated by the red-bordered Crossing at A5/b8.
suggestions 
and tips
• Choose the most expert 
player of the group for the 
role of Jack.
• Jack the Ripper should use 
the Coach and Alley tokens 
wisely, in order to have 
them when he really needs 
them.
• Jack the Ripper should not 
overestimate the number 
of moves he has left for 
the Night. The detectives 
might force him into a fatal 
detour with an unexpected 
move at any time.
• The detectives should 
not necessarily focus on 
catching Jack on the first 
Night at all costs. Early in 
the game, it is much more 
important to narrow down 
the areas where Jack’s 
Hideout might be.
• The detectives will have to 
discuss their tactics in front 
of Jack, but they should 
wait for Jack to move 
before they start to talk 
to avoid giving away too 
much about their plans.
• Jack the Ripper should 
try to avoid giving away 
his location by the way he 
looks at the game board.
i
k
f

- 23 -
False Clues
For every five yellow Clue markers he reveals to the Police during a 
given Night, Jack gains a blue False Clue marker.
Jack can place one of these False Clue markers on any numbered 
circle at the beginning of phase 3, “Police: Clues and Suspicion.” When placed 
in this way, a False Clue token blocks that numbered circle for the rest of the 
Night, meaning that a Policeman pawn cannot look for clues or execute an 
arrest there.
9 To Help the Police 9
Rushing
During Hunting, phase 3, “Police: Clues and Suspicion” each detective, 
starting with the Head of the Investigation and proceeding clockwise, has a 
third option to choose from for his action: rushing.
Rushing: A detective chooses a Policeman pawn that can still act and moves it 
to an adjacent Crossing (ignoring numbered circles).
Area Arrests
During phase 3, “Police: Clues and Suspicion,” when executing an arrest, the 
detective announces all of the numbered circles adjacent to his Policeman pawn’s 
location. If any of these numbered circles correspond to Jack’s current location, 
Jack is arrested and loses the game. Otherwise, no information is given.
Catch Me, If You Can
During part 6 of the Game Preparation, when Jack secretly chooses one of 
the numbered circles on the game board as his Hideout, he cannot choose red 
numbered circles or numbered circles adjacent to them. He then writes the 
number on the move track sheet as usual.
I Know Your Address
During Hell, phase 3, “Police: Patrolling the Streets,” if the revealed Head of 
the Investigation tile is Swanson (brown Head of the Investigation) or Abberline 
(red Head of the Investigation), the Head of the Investigation detective can 
immediately execute an arrest, declaring the number of any circle on the 
game board. If that numbered circle was choosen by Jack as his Hideout, the 
detectives win the game. This ability can be used only once during the game.
whitechapel ™ 
hideout generator
Available on App Store 
Whitechapel™ Hideout 
Generator, usable on all the 
Apple portable devices (iPod 
Touch, iPhone, and iPad).
This interesting accessory 
allows experienced Jacks new 
thrilling challenges.
The Hideout Generator allows 
Jack to randomly choose his 
Hideout, selecting between 
various difficulty settings: 
Easy, Normal, Medium, 
and Hard. The App also 
implements the Optional Rule 
“Catch Me, If You Can.” Are 
you able to overcome the new 
challenges?
Ã

- 24 -
9 Summary of Gameplay 9
The game is divided into four Nights. 
Each Night is divided into two parts. 
Each part has a number of different phases.
First Part: HELL
Jack the Ripper: Preparing the Scene. Jack collects the Special 
Movement tokens.
Jack the Ripper: The Targets are Identified. Jack places Woman 
tokens facedown on red numbered circles. Jack cannot place tokens on 
circles occupied by Crime Scene markers.
Police: Patrolling the Streets. The detectives reveal a Head of the 
Investigation tile. That player will be the Head of the Investigation for 
the current Night. He places seven Police Patrol tokens on the game 
board.
Jack the Ripper: The Victims are Chosen. The Woman tokens are 
revealed. Those marked with red are replaced with Wretched pawns. 
The Time of the Crime token is placed on the yellow Roman numeral I 
on the move track.
Jack the Ripper: Blood on the Streets. Jack chooses between killing 
a victim (and jumping to phase 8) or waiting (continue to phase 6).
Police: Suspense Grows. The Time of the Crime token is moved to the 
next Roman numeral in ascending order. The Head of the Investigation 
moves each Wretched pawn.
Jack the Ripper: Ready to Kill. Jack chooses and reveals a Police 
Patrol token. The game continues with another iteration of phase 5.
Jack the Ripper: A Corpse on the Sidewalk. Jack records on his sheet 
the number of the circle marked with the most recent Crime Scene 
marker.
Police: Alarm Whistles. The detectives reveal the remaining Police 
Patrol tokens, replace the marked ones with the corresponding 
Policeman pawns, and remove from the game board the remaining 
Wretched pawns. The Hunting begins!
Second Part: HUNTING
Jack the Ripper: Escape in the Night. Jack moves from his current 
location to an adjacent numbered circle, following dotted lines, 
recording his new location, and advancing his pawn on the move track.
Police: Hunting the Monster. Each detective moves his own 
Policeman pawn(s), starting with the Head of the Investigation and 
proceeding clockwise.
Police: Clues and Suspicion. Starting with the Head of Investigation 
and proceeding clockwise, each Policeman pawn takes an action, either 
looking for clues or executing an arrest.
special thanks 
by the designers
To Alessandro Drei for 
his immense help, to Loris 
Casagrandi, Rob Robinson, 
and Don C. Donelson for their 
precious suggestions, to Rosalia 
Alvisi and Linda Cavina for the 
advertising they have done and 
they still do, to Massimiliano 
Calimera and all the journalists 
of Gioconomicon for their 
true and honest service, to 
Alessandro Lonzi and Marina 
Morbidoni for their great 
photo shoots, and to Andrea 
“Jack” Dominici and Chiara 
“Sventurata” Pappi for their 
great performance in those 
pictures, to R.R. “Zombiegod” 
for those great inspiring 
pictures, and lastly to Roberto 
Di Meglio for his trust in us.
Z