@
On April 30, 1803, the United States of America purchased the Louisiana Territory from 
Napoleon for $15 million. Th omas Jeff erson decided to send two adventurers - Meriwether 
Lewis and William Clark - to explore this huge terra incognita. Th e Lewis & Clark 
Expedition (lasting from 1804 to 1806) was the fi rst American expedition to cross what 
is now the western portion of the United States.
%+#-4#04'#5
Let’s go back to 1803 and imagine that President Jeff erson did not send one but many 
expeditions to explore the Wild West. You and the other players will each lead one of 
these parties. Your aim will be to cross the North American continent and, of course, 
to reach the Pacifi c as soon as possible. History will only remember the fi rst to arrive. 
Lewis & Clark is a race game driven by resource and hand management. What needs 
to be managed are your resources, your Corps of Discovery, and especially the trappers 
and Native Americans met during the journey. Good management will result in good 
progress across the West! 
When you’re fi rst learning the game, we strongly advise you to play it with only 2 to 
4 players, since the 5-player game is more suited for experienced players. We do not 
recommend playing the 5-player game with players who have never played Lewis & 
Clark before.
7-30$'012$#5%+#1
40',21
After playing Lewis and Clark a few times, you might want to make things a little 
diff erent with the Route Change tokens.
And, if you want to play alone, we have a solo variant for you (see page 15).
!-+.-,#,21
1 Game board
5 Expedition boards
5 Camp tokens of diff erent colours
12 double-sided Boat tiles
5 Scout fi gures of diff erent colours
84 Character cards (30 Starting Characters 
with the player’s coloured symbol at the 
bottom right + 54 numbered Encountered 
Characters)
100 Resource hexagons
8 Resource Multiplication markers
10 Route Change tokens
18 Indian fi gures
8 Resource Badge tokens (for solo play)
Set Up
Object
Game Turn
Action
Recruitment
Encampment
Game End 
Starting Characters’ Actions description 
Description of the Village Actions
Note about the Characters
Starting Characters
The Encountered Characters
Solo Variant
Summary
Th e Character Cards - Th e Expedition Mini-Boards
Important Note About the Actions
New Character on the Journal of Encounters 
Th e Camp
Th e Route
Scouts’ Movement
Th e History Behind the Game
............... 2-3
................................................................................................................ 4
.......................................................................................................... 4
............................................................................................................. 4-5
........................................... 5
............................. 5
.............................................................................. 6
............................................................................................................ 6
................................................. 7-8
 .............................................................................. 8
................................................................... 8
................................................................ 9
................................................ 10
........................................................................... 10
....................................................................................... 11
.................................................................. 12-14
..................................................................................................... 15
............................................................................................................ 15

@
A1
B1
A2
A3
A4
B2
D1
D2
D1
A1
B1
B2
A3
Unfold the game board and place it in the 
centre of the table.
Place the resource hexagons on the 
appropriate Stocks of the game board: 
It represents the territory that you will have to cross, and also an 
Indian Village where you will be able to get help for your journey.
During your journey, you will need diff erent kinds of resources. 
Some of them can be obtained directly by using an action (this 
costs nothing) ; these are the Primary Resources.
Other resources need a «transformation» ; you will have to give 
some resources or Indians to get them.
Resources will not run out during the game. Multiplication 
Markers allow you to compensate for a potential shortage of 
resource hexagons. 
Primary Resources
20 Wood
20 Fur
15 Food
15 Equipment
Transformed Resources
15 Dugout Canoes
15 Horses
Each group of resources is a Stock.
Based on the number of players, take the 
appropriate number of Indian fi gures and 
place them next to the game board to form 
the Stock. Remaining Indians are put back 
into the box.
Th e Indians will allow you to perform actions in the Village 
or with your Characters. Th ey can also increase the power of 
your actions. More Indians are available when you use the 
“Interpreter” Starting Character. Use good management as they 
could slow you down.
Number of 
Indians used
Number of 
Players
8 Resource Multiplication Markers
Place them next to the game board. If a Stock is 
depleted, a player may take a marker, and 
put an appropriate hexagon on it, making it 
worth three of that resource.
Place 1 Indian fi gure from the stock on the 
Newcomer area 
of the game board.
Place the 12 Boat tiles on the
game board (on the Gulf of Mexico) in two 
stacks of 6 tiles:
By adding these Boats to your Expedition, you will increase your 
storage or passenger capacity.
Each player chooses a colour and takes the 
6 Starting Character cards of this colour in 
his hand.
Th ese 6 cards represent historical members of the Expedition. 
Th ey form your starting hand. At the beginning of the game, 
all the players have identical hands, apart from the names of 
their explorers.
If there are fewer than 5 players, the unused Starting 
Character cards are placed back in the box.
1#23.

I
@?
@@
D2
A2
A4
I
Shuffl e the 54 Encountered Character cards 
to form the draw deck, and place it face down 
on the game board, on top of the Journal of 
Encounters .
Draw 5 cards from this deck and 
arrange them on the Journal of 
Encounters by their Strength 
(number at the card’s top left-hand 
corner) 
. Th e lowest Strength 
card is placed at the bottom of the 
Journal, close to the Gulf of Mexico, 
and the highest Strength at the top. 
If two cards have the same Strength, 
place them in the order drawn.
Each player takes an Expedition mini-board 
of the colour she chose and places it in front 
of her. She takes an Indian fi gure from the 
stock and places it on the fourth Boat 
of her Expedition.
VARIANT: Take 4 primary resources of each kind from 
the Stocks. Randomly, give 3 of them to each player 
who immediately places them on the fi rst Boat of his 
Expedition. Place the remaining resources back into 
the Stocks.
Each player takes 1 Fur, 1 Food, and 1 
Equipment from the Stocks and places them 
on the fi rst boat 
of his Expedition.
Th is way, the players start with diff erent resources each game.
She places the Camp token 
of her colour next 
to the river, pointing at the starting space (St Louis). 
Th e Scouts and Camps of the unused colours are placed 
back in the box.
Th e starting player is chosen randomly. Th e 
game starts with this player’s turn.
Each player places the Scout fi gure 
of her colour on the Route starting 
space (St Louis). 
2&##6.#"'2'-,+','
 -0"1
Your Expedition is represented by your individual 
board. It is composed of Boats on which :
- you will store the resources you get (hexagonal spots); 
or
- you will place the Indians who join you (circular 
spots). 
Some of these Boats are «easy to handle»: they will 
not slow you down during your Encampment phase. 
Others (with a Time symbol above them ) will 
slow your Encampment if their spaces are occupied 
during this phase.
At any time during your Expedition, you may 
reorganize your resources and Indians in any way you 
like, enabling more of them to be on Boats that cost 
less Time.
Character’s action
Character’s name
Card number or player’s 
coloured symbol
Character recruitment cost 
(in Equipment)
- this is also the Character’s 
Strength -
Th e Characters may either: perform actions; acquire or transform 
resources; or move your expedition forward on the route.
84 Character cards composed of:
- 30 Starting Character cards (5 crews of 6 Characters), 
with the players’ colours on the back.
Character’s Strength
Provided resource
Recruitment 
Discount
C a m p 
Ti m e 
reminder
2&#!&0!2#0!0"1
- 54 Encountered Character cards, numbered from 1 
to 54, whom the players will be able to recruit.
A large number of strategies are possible in Lewis & Clark, 
thanks to the card combinations that can be made from your 
hand.

- (#!2
During the game, you will mainly perform actions by using Character cards from your 
hand, but also by sending Indians of your Expedition to the Village. Th ese actions will 
allow your Scout to move forward on the route. Character cards can either perform 
actions (for which they’ll need to be given Strength), or provide Strength to another 
Character card.
Frequently, you will have to stop and Camp in order to retrieve the Character cards 
that you have previously played. During this phase, your Scout will have to move 
back on the route if your Boats are heavily loaded with resources or if you transport a 
lot of Indians. How long it takes for your Expedition to set up Camp will be crucial. 
Afterwards, your Camp token will join your Scout.
When a player brings his Camp on or beyond the Fort Clatsop space, the game 
immediately ends. Th is player wins the game, because he is the fi rst one to reach the 
Pacifi c.
%+#230,
On your turn, you must perform an Action.
In addition to this compulsory Action, you can set up Camp.
You can also Recruit a new Character. 
Th ose two phases are optional: each of them can be done any time during the player’s 
turn, before or after the compulsory Action, but never simultaneously.
!2'-,(COMPULSORY PHASE)
On your turn, you must perform an Action. Th ere are two types of Action: the 
Character cards’ Actions and the Indian Village Actions on the game board.
To perform an Action, Strength, represented by this symbol , must be given to 
the Action by Indian fi gures, or from another card, or both! Character cards have a 
Strength from 1 to 3 and the Indian fi gures have a Strength of 1 each. Th e Action may 
be performed this turn as many times as the number of Strength points given to it.
A - Th e Action is performed 
once using a Character card 
with a Strength of 1.
B - Th e Action is performed 
twice using 2 Indians.
C - Th e Action is performed 
3 times using a Character 
card with a Strength 1 + 2 
Indians
Th e Character cards played remain in front of you and constitute your Playing 
Area.
Character cards actions
In order to activate the Action of a Character card from your hand, you must play 
it in front of you. It must be given Strength (its own card Strength is NOT used!) 
from either: 
(A) another Character card from your hand: choose a card and place it face-down 
underneath the card to activate it; or
(B) Indian fi gures taken from your Expedition: take 1, 2 or 3 Indian fi gures from 
your Expedition mini-board and place them on the card to activate; or
(C) a combination of a Character card from your hand and 1 or 2 Indian fi gures: 
choose a card and place it face-down underneath the card and place 1 or 2 Indian 
fi gures on it to activate, with a maximum total Strength of 3.
In all three cases, the Action is performed as many times as the Strength that 
activates it.
Be careful! In cases A and C, the Action 
of the face-down card is temporarily 
unavailable (until the next Encampment).
It is often useful to perform an Action more than once. Having Character cards with a Strength 
of 2 or 3 in hand is a big advantage, since Actions can now be done without Indians.
In cases B and C, the Indians played still 
belong to your Expedition.

Indian Village Actions
Th e Village Actions (shown by icons in bubbles) can only be activated by Indians 
placed on the Action area. 
On an empty circle, place just one Indian fi gure taken from your Expedition.
On a semicircle, place simultaneously 1, 2 or 3 Indian fi gures taken from your 
Expedition, regardless of whether or not the area is already occupied.
In both cases, perform the Action as many times as the number of Indians you have 
placed. Th ese Indian fi gures do not belong to you anymore. 
Unlike the Character card Actions, these Actions are available for all the players.
Philippe places an Indian and performs the 
«Hunting» Action once (empty circle).
Karine places 2 Indians and performs the 
«Canoe manufacturing» Action twice, even 
if 3 Indians are already present (semicircle).
Th e Village Actions can be hotly contested! Anticipating when the other players will try to grab 
them is a key part of your strategy.
Important Note About the Actions
(Characters and Village)
It is always permissible to use only a part of the Strength (or none of the Strength) that 
has been given to an Action. For example: an Action that has been given a Strength 
of 3 could be performed twice, or once, or not at all, rather than three times.
It is also permissible to take only some (or none) of the benefi ts gained from an Action, 
rather than all of them.
Pay the cost in Equipment and Fur corresponding to the Character you want to recruit: 
as many Fur as indicated by his position on the Journal of Encounters
and as many Equipment as the Strength of the Character. 
You can partially or completely pay the required Equipment by discarding one (and 
only one) card from your hand. Th en you save as many Equipment as indicated by 
the Recruitment Discount on the back of the discarded card. Th e discarded card 
is placed face-up into a discard deck beside the game board. Immediately add the 
recruited Character to your hand.
Th en add a new Character card to the Journal of Encounters.
During the adventure, you will meet Characters who will be able to join your Corps 
of Discovery. Th ey are present on the Journal of Encounters. You can only recruit one 
Character each round, either before or after your compulsory Action.
At the beginning of his turn, Cédrick wants to recruit Black Cat. His cost is 4 Fur and 
3 Equipment. Cédrick gives 4 Fur, and then puts 2 Equipment into the Stock and discards 
Hugh McNeal, who has a Strength of 1 (which counts as 1 Equipment). He adds Black 
Cat to his hand.
ALL THE ENCOUNTERED CHARACTER CARDS ARE DESCRIBED IN THE LAST PAGES OF THIS 
RULEBOOK.
Advice to beginners
During your fi rst games, we advise you not to discard your Interpreter and Commander (see 
Starting Character Actions description). Without these two cards, and without having recruited 
the necessary Characters, you would not be able to win the game!
Add a new card to the Journal 
of Encounters
As soon as a spot becomes empty on 
the Journal of Encounters, move all the 
Encountered Character cards downwards. 
Draw a new Character card and place it on 
the fi rst spot, close to the draw deck. Do not 
re-arrange the cards by Strength!
0#!03'2+#,2 (OPTIONAL PHASE)

#,!+.+#,2(OPTIONAL PHASE)
to three resources. It costs 
one Time if it contains at 
least one resource.
to fi ve resources. It costs 
one Time per resource.
Th is Boat can hold an 
unlimited number of 
Indians, but it costs one 
Time per Indian present. 
Th is Boat can hold only 
one Indian, and costs no 
Time.
to three  resources, and 
costs no Time.
TIME COSTS OF THE EXPEDITION BOATS
When you set up Camp,
1- Place all the Indians played on your Character cards back on the Boats of your 
You can set up Camp any time during your round, before or after your compulsory 
Action. Your Camp and your Scout might end up at the same spot during this time.
2- Calculate how much Time you spend in Camp. It is equal to the sum of :
the Character cards still in your hand at this moment, and
the possible Time costs of the Boats of your Expedition (based on transported 
resources and Indians, see below).
3- Move your Scout backwards by the same number of spaces as the Time your 
Expedition spends in Camp, observing the Scouts’ movement rules (see page 8).
4- Bring your Camp up to your Scout if the Scout is further ahead and point your 
Camp token at the space where the Scout is. Do not move your Camp if your Scout 
is situated further behind than your Camp.
5- Take all the cards from your Playing Area back into your hand.
IF YOUR SCOUT HAS TO MOVE BACKWARDS MORE THAN 5 SPACES DOWNRIVER FROM SAINT LOUIS, 
ITS MOVEMENT STOPS ON THE FIRST RIVER SPACE, EVEN IF OTHER SCOUTS ARE ALREADY THERE.
Th is phase allows you to take back into your hand the cards you have played into 
your Playing Area. Nevertheless, it can take time and delay your progress. Th is time is 
symbolized by the «Time» icon 
present on the cards and on the Boats.
Your Characters that haven’t been used since the 
last Encampment slow you down: they want to 
talk with you about their terms of employment.
Unloading Boats, only to later re-embark, 
takes valuable time away from your journey. 
Th erefore, you must carefully manage your 
resources in order not to fall back.
Karine (Blue) must Camp. She takes her two Indian fi gures (present on her cards in her 
Playing Area) and puts them on her Boats. She then calculates her Time spent in Camp.
In the situation shown on below, Karine’s Time spent in Camp equals 5:
1 for the Character card left in her hand A
+1 for the 3 resources present on her Boat B
+2 for the 2 resources present on her Boat C
+1 for the Indian present on her Boat D. Which makes a total of 5 Time points.
Karine therefore must move her Scout 5 spaces backwards on the River. Th en she moves 
her Camp token next to her Scout and takes back her cards into her hand.
Th e Camp
A Camp never moves backwards on the Route. At the end of your Encampment 
phase, several Camps can be pointing at the same space. A Scout can be on a space 
pointed at by one or more Camps.
%+##,"
When a player brings his Camp token on or beyond the Fort Clatsop space, the game 
ends immediately. Th is player wins the game. 
During your fi rst games, you might think that the start player is at a small disadvantage 
at the beginning of the game. However, the “sudden death” ending at Fort Clatsop 
balances things out.
At any time during your Expedition, you may reorganize your resources and Indians 
in any way you like, enabling more of them to be on Boats that cost less Time.
IF YOU CANNOT PERFORM ANY ACTION (CHARACTER OR VILLAGE) AT THE START OF YOUR TURN, 
THEN YOU MUST FIRST SET UP CAMP BEFORE TAKING YOUR COMPULSORY ACTION FOR THAT TURN.

1202',%!&0!2#01`!2'-,1"#1!0'.2'-,
Th e Lumberjack, the Hunter, the Blacksmith and the Fur Trader allow you to collect 
resources (see above). When you play one of these Characters, add up the number of 
relevant resource badges visible in the top corner of each card in your Playing Area 
(including the cards used to perform the Action) and also those in your left-hand and 
right-hand neighbours’ Playing Areas (or your only neighbour if playing a 2-player 
game).
Primary Resources Collection
Multiply the number of badges you’ve just counted by the value of the Strength given 
to your Action. Take as many resources as you want from the corresponding Stock, up 
to the total number of badges you’ve worked out. Place them on your Boats’ free spaces.
During a collection, previously held resources cannot be discarded from your Boats 
unless your Boats are already full. In this case, you can return to the Stocks the excess 
resources of your choice.
Th e resources can be reorganized as often as you want, but you can never have more 
resources than you can store (even temporarily).
THE RESOURCE BADGES
WOOD
FOOD
EQUIPMENT
FUR
Karine (Blue) plays her Lumberjack, and gives him a total Strength of 2 from a Character card 
placed underneath. Th ere are now 5 visible Wood badges in her own and her two neighbours’ 
Playing Areas, Julien’s (Orange) and Cédrick’s (Green). Karine can therefore take 2x5 = 10 Wood 
from the Stock. She decides to keep only 7 which she places on her Boats. Th e remaining resources 
go back to the Stock.
Karine (Blue)
Julien (Orange)
Cédrick (Green)
Blacksmith 
Equipment
Hunter
 Food
Lumberjack
Wood
Fur trader
Fur
1- Julien plays his Interpreter with a 
Character card that has a Strength of 
1. He gathers on the Powwow area 
all the Indians present on the board 
(including the one present in the 
Newcomer area). Th ere is a total of 
4 Indians.
3- Th en he discards the bottom card of the Journal of Encounters and draws 
a new one that he places on the Journal, next to the draw deck.
4- Finally, he takes an Indian fi gure from the Stock and adds 
it to the Newcomer area.
Th e Interpreter Action is a key Action in this game. Th is is the only way to add Indians to 
your Expedition. It also:
- makes available all the Village Actions once again,
- reveals new cards in the Journal, which gives more options for recruiting.
2- Julien decides to add all of them 
to his Expedition. 
Th e Interpreter allows you to welcome new Indians into your 
1- Gather on the Powwow area (in the centre of the Village) all 
the Indians in the Village (including the Indian present on the 
Newcomer area).
2- Th en take as many Indians as you want from the Powwow area. 
Place the Indian(s) you have taken in the Boats of your Expedition. 
3- Discard the Character card situated on the last page (at the bottom) of the Journal 
of Encounters, and put it face-up in the discard deck. Now add the top card from the 
draw deck to the Journal (see «Add a new card to the Journal of Encounters» page 5).
4- Finally, place an Indian fi gure, taken from the Stock, on the Newcomer area. Ignore 
this step if the Indian stock is empty.
If you activate the Interpreter action with a Strength of 2 or 3, repeat the process 
respectively 2 or 3 times, refi lling the Journal and the Newcomer area each time. Th is 
will allow you to obtain 1 or 2 additional Indians.
Take Indians on board

Karine (Blue) plays her Commander with a Character card (Strength of 
1) and two Indians (like all Characters’ Actions, the Commander’s own 
card Strength is not used for his own action!). Th is gives her Commander 
a Strength of 3, allowing her to perform the Action as many as 3 times. 
She chooses to pay two Food and one Horse, which allows her to move her 
Scout forward 4 (2+2) spaces on the River and 2 spaces on the Mountain. 
Julien’s Scout (Orange) occupies the last space of this movement. Karine 
therefore moves her Scout one additional space in the Mountains! 
Philippe (yellow) plays his Commander with a Character card (Strength 
of 2). Th is allows him to perform the Action twice. He pays 2 Horses to 
move his Scout forward 2+2= 4 spaces on the Mountain. Since there are 
only 3 spaces left that Horses can handle in front of his Scout (2 Mountain 
and 1 Mountain-River spaces), he moves his Scout forward only 3 spaces. 
One movement space is lost.
Scouts’ Movement
A Scout movement can never end on the same space as an opponent’s Scout because 
on the Route, only one Scout is permitted per space (except in Saint Louis, which is 
the starting space, and the fi rst space of river). If this happens, the Scout moves forward 
to the next available space (possibly moving backward during the Encampment phase). 
Players may pass through an occupied space, however.
Remember: when your Scout moves forward several times during the same Action 
(thanks to a card activated 2 or 3 times), do not take the positions of opposing Scouts 
into account while you’re moving, but only the position of a Scout on the fi nal space 
of your movement.
As two Scouts cannot stay on the same space, it is possible to end movement on a Mountain 
space after playing a card that allows you to move only on the River (and the other way around)!
Th e Commander allows you to move your Scout forward on the Route. 
For each Strength that activates this card, choose one of the following 
options:
• Pay one Food from your Boats and move your Scout forward 
2 River spaces. 
• OR pay one Canoe from your Boats and move your Scout forward 
4 River spaces. 
• OR pay one Horse from your Boats and move your Scout forward 
2 Mountain spaces.
Th ere are 2 «Mountain-River» spaces, before and after the fi rst Mountain area. In 
these spaces, you can move your Scout forward with any of the three resources. A 
part of the move may be lost, however, if the land type changes to something that the 
resource normally can’t handle (e.g., after moving through a Mountain-River with a 
Horse, movement would stop if a River space came next).
Move Forward on the Route
Th e Route
Th e Route is composed of several parts :
- three River parts (in blue),
- two Mountain parts (in grey),
- two «Mountain-River» spaces, both of which are River and Mountain at the same 
time.
VARIANT: After you’ve played a few games, we suggest designing your own Route! You 
can add some Route Change tokens to some of the Route spaces on the board. Th is way, a 
diff erent distribution of River and Mountain spaces will allow you to try some new strategies.

"#1!0'.2'-,-$2&#4'**%#!2'-,1
In the Village, there are eight diff erent areas, corresponding to eight Actions which 
can be performed by all the players :
fi ve areas with only one spot (one circle) for the Hunting, Craftsmanship, Gift, 
Farewell and Shamanism Actions
one area with two spots (two circles) for the Expedition Upgrade Action
and two unlimited areas for the Canoe Manufacturing and Horse Trade Actions. 
Village Actions are, overall, less valuable than those of the Encountered Characters; but they 
save you from having to commit a Character from your hand, and give you the opportunity to 
get resources that you might not obtain otherwise. Th ey also allow you to reduce the number 
of Indians in your Expedition.
Take 1 Food AND 
1 Fur from the Stock 
and place them on 
your Boats.
Take 1 Equipment 
AND 1 Wood from the 
Stock and place them 
on your Boats.
Take 2 Fur OR 2 Wood 
from the Stock and place 
them on your Boats.
Hunting
Gift
Craftsmanship
Discard 0 to 3 Character cards from your hand (place them 
face-up in the discard deck).
Th en discard all the Character cards from the Journal of 
Encounters. Th e discarded cards are placed face up in the 
discard deck beyond the game board. Refi ll the Journal by 
drawing 5 new cards and placing them in the order drawn.
Farewell
Karine places an Indian in the Farewell area. She discards 2 cards from her hand. She empties the 
Journal of Encounters and draws 5 new cards that she places on the Journal.
Th is action can be useful in order to :
- lighten your hand and get rid of cards which have become useless
- reveal new Character cards on the Journal, and then recruit one.
Pay 3 diff erent resources to take a Horse from the Stock. Each 
of the three resources must be diff erent from the other two!
Horse Trade
Julien plays an Indian on this spot. He pays one Wood, one Food and 
one Equipment from his Boats and takes one Horse which he places on 
his Boats.
Pay 2 Wood to take a Canoe from the Stock.
Canoe Manufacturing
Julien plays 2 Indians on this spot. He pays 4 Wood from his Boats and 
receives 2 Canoes that he places back on his Boats.
Shamanism
Pay one Food to activate a face-up Character Action that 
is already on the table (one in your Playing Area or one in 
any other player’s Area). You may do this Action only once, 
regardless of what Strength had been used to originally 
activate it.
If you copy an Action of one of your opponents, treat that card 
as if it were in your Playing Area, NOT that of your opponent, 
when calculating the rewards resulting from that Action.
Julien places an Indian fi gure on the Shaman. He pays one Food and triggers the Action of Karine’s 
Interpreter (only once). He gets several Indian fi gures, including the one he placed on the Shaman.
On her turn, Karine takes advantage of the Shaman circle being empty by placing an Indian there. 
She pays one Food to copy the Action of her Commander, which she had previously played into her 
Playing Area. She pays one Canoe and moves her Scout forward 4 spaces on the River. 
Th is Action allows you to play the Action of another player’s Character or to repeat an Action 
that you already played. 
Th is Action will be more useful if you perform it early in the game. Depending on your strategy 
(resource or Indian), you will choose either one or the other type of Boat. 
Furthermore, this Action provides you 2 resources or an Indian.
Expedition Upgrade
Pay 3 Wood and you have the choice to take :
either one Boat tile (which can carry 
resources) and 2 primary resources of your 
choice from the Stocks,
or one Boat tile (which can carry Indians) 
and 1 Indian from the Stock. If there is no 
Indian left in the Stock, take the tile alone.
Add this Boat to your Expedition, along with the Indian or the resources, by placing 
the tile next to your Expedition.
Choose carefully which side of the Boat tile will be facing up! Once those tiles are 
placed next to your Expedition, they cannot be turned over again.
Philippe places an Indian in one of the two circles of the Expedition Upgrade. He pays 3 Wood from 
his Expedition. Th en he takes a Boat tile and places it next to his Expedition, with the «3 Indians» 
face up. He places in it one Indian taken from the Stock. So, he has replaced the Indian used to 
perform this Action with a new one and has reduced the cost to transport Indians.
Th is Boat can contain 
up to five  resources 
and costs one Time 
during Encampment 
if it contains at least 
one resource.
Th is Boat can transport 
up to three Indians, 
and costs one Time 
during Encampment 
if it transports at least 
one Indian.
Th is Boat can contain 
up to two resources and 
costs no Time during 
Encampment.
Th is Boat can transport 
one Indian and costs 
no 
Time 
during 
Encampment.
Th e Character cards with a permanent eff ect, indicated by this symbol , 
cannot be copied.

@?
2&#&'12-07 #&',"2&#%+#
When Th omas Jeff erson became the third president of the United States in 
1800, the nation occupied a roughly square-shaped area that stretched 
about 1000 miles (1600 km), from the Atlantic Ocean in the east to 
the Mississippi River in the west, and from the Great Lakes in the 
north to the Gulf of Mexico in the south. Roads and paths across the 
country were poor. Rivers, therefore, were the preferred trade routes. 
In 1803, with the stroke of a pen, Jeff erson doubled the size of the 
United States by purchasing the Louisiana Territory from France, at a 
price of $15 million. France had bought the territory from Spain only 
three years earlier. Th e United States now had access to the strategic port 
of New Orleans, and to the Wild West, beyond the Mississippi. Hitherto, 
this immense country had been known only to its Native inhabitants, and 
to fur traders. Th ese rough and burly fellows, working for the North West Company or 
its rival, the Hudson’s Bay Company, traded in beaver pelts and many of the fur traders 
married Indian women. 
Jeff erson assigned the exploration of this Terra Incognita to Meriwether 
Lewis, aged 29, his personal secretary since 1801. His goal was to fi nd 
a waterway connecting the east and west of the territory. Lewis showed 
his genius in choosing as a companion for this fantastic adventure his 
friend William Clark, a man four years his senior, who would share 
responsibilities. While Lewis was a slightly-built intellectual and 
an introverted dreamer, Clark counterbalanced him by being very 
much the opposite: a very strong man, tutored at home, pragmatic, 
warmhearted, of very sound judgment, and having the common touch.
In December 1803, Lewis and Clark joined a small contingent at 
Camp Dubois near St. Louis, arriving in a keelboat specially built for 
the expedition. Th e two captains camped during the winter at the mouth 
of the Wood River and recruited young volunteers, including soldiers from 
American forts. In the spring, the expedition had 33 men: the Corps of Discovery was born. 
On May 14, 1804, the small exploration fl eet, consisting of the keelboat and two canoes, 
began the long climb up the Missouri. Th e expedition carried a large quantity of cheap 
trinkets to be given as presents to the Indians: 2800 hooks, about 150 small mirrors, 
22 rolls of canvas, 130 rolls of tobacco, hundreds of strings of beads, brass buttons, knives, 
hatchets, scissors, 400 pins and bracelets, 4600 needles, medals bearing the likeness of 
Jeff erson, gunpowder and weapons. 
During the long, hot summer of 1804, the expedition continued upriver, 
facing hordes of mosquitoes, treacherous currents, and dangerous logs fl oating 
in their path. Occasionally, the explorers had to walk on the shoreline, 
pulling the boats upriver by means of ropes. Some of the crew were sent 
out to hunt for food. On a good day, the expedition might advance 15 
miles (20 km). Th e group encountered many Indian nations, such as 
the Missouri, the Sioux, the Omaha and the Lakota. Captains Lewis 
and Clark off ered their gifts, met their leaders, and encouraged peace 
between them and their new «Father», President Jeff erson. 
On August 20, Sergeant Charles Floyd died, probably of appendicitis. 
A river was named in his honour. Amazingly, this was the only death 
in the Corps of Discovery during the two and a half year expedition. 
In October, they reached the villages of the Mandan and Hidatsa 
in North Dakota. Th ey had traveled 1600 miles (2,500 km) in 
164 days. In four weeks, they had built Fort Mandan, and lived there 
fi ve months that winter, hunting and learning about their future route 
from Indian and Canadian trappers living nearby. 
Th ey also hired Toussaint Charbonneau and his pregnant Shoshone 
wife, Sacagawea, or «Th e Bird Woman». Th is teenager had been 
kidnapped at age 12 by the Minitari, and Charbonneau won her 
in a dice-game! She was the only woman in the expedition. In spite 
of her pregnancy, Clark had the wisdom to see that Sacagawea would 
help the expedition cross the Rockies by being able to secure horses from 
the Shoshone.
On April 7, 1805, a small group of men returned to St. Louis on the 
keelboat, bearing a report for Jeff erson. Th e rest of the expedition 
(32 people) continued up the Missouri.
Th e Great Falls Portage, lasting from June 13 to July 25, was 
an epic American journey, bypassing the Great Falls of the 
Missouri in present day Montana. Th rough mountains, for 
a distance of 18 miles (25 km), all equipment and boats 
had to be carried by hand, or in makeshift wagons, while 
avoiding grizzlies, rattlesnakes, and prickly pears.
In July, they reached the territory of the Shoshone. On August 
17, Sacagawea, who had been recognizing landmarks from 
her childhood, found her tribe. Miraculously, its current 
leader was her own brother. Th ey readily provided the 
Corps with horses and a mule, without which the expedition 
couldn’t continue. A Shoshone, Old Toby, agreed to be their 
guide through the Rockies. 
In September, on the crest of the Bitterroot Range in Idaho, the 
Lolo Trail proved to be a hell of snow and mud lasting 11 days, 
with nothing to eat and where haggard horses stumbled and rolled into 
ravines. Descending the western slopes of the mountains, they reached a village of the Nez 
Perce. Th e Indians off ered them salmon and roots, but the unusual diet made them sick. 
Arriving at the Clearwater River, they gave the Nez Perce their horses and built canoes 
with which they followed the rapid course of the Snake River, and then the Columbia. Not 
far downriver, the Corps was forced again to portage to avoid rapids. Soon they realized 
they were in an estuary. In mid-November, 1805, they reached the Pacifi c. Th e Corps had 
traveled for 554 days and 4,132 miles (6,700 km).
,-2# -322&#!&0!2#01
TO PAY A RESOURCE: take a resource from your Boats and put it in the Stock. 
TO TAKE A RESOURCE: take a resource from the Stock and put it on your Boats.
TO COLLECT: count the number of visible badges of this resource on the top 
corners of the cards in your Playing Area and in your 2 neighbours’ Playing 
Areas (or 1 neighbour in a 2-player game). Take as many resources from the 
Stock as the result and then put the collected resources on your Boats.
A PLAYING AREA: all the cards a player has played and placed in front of her, 
face up and face down.
ACTIVE CHARACTER: Character card that is in your Playing Area, face up, 
whose Action is being or has been activated.
All the cards show historical characters who played a part in the success of the Lewis 
& Clark Expedition. Each card’s eff ect is related to the historical role of its character. 
You can fi nd below the full list of the 84 Characters as well as their description. 
Remember: A Character’s Action can be activated (simultaneously) as many times as 
the Strength that has been given to it.
GLOSSARY

@@
1202',%!&0!2#01
Th e Hunters
Collect Food (see page 7).
Th e Lumberjacks
Collect Wood (see page 7).
Th e Commanders
Move your Scout forward by paying Food, Canoe or 
Horse (see page 8).
Th e Interpreters
Take Indians from the Village and add them to your 
Expedition (see page 7).
Silas Goodrich (Yellow)
He is transferred from his army unit to Lewis and 
Clark’s command in 1804. He is the principal 
fi sherman for the corps, and provides other food 
when necessary.
John Colter (Green)
William Werner (Purple)
Th omas P. Howard (Yellow)
He is a steady member of the expedition, despite 
having been court-martialed for scaling the Fort 
Mandan stockade wall when returning from a 
visit to the Mandan Indian village.
Patrick Gass (Green)
He is elected Sergeant after Floyd’s death. As a 
carpenter, he heads the construction of the Corps’ 
winter quarters, hews dugout canoes, and builds 
wagons to portage the canoes.
Hugh Hall (Purple)
He has a penchant for whiskey, which together 
with other army infractions result in court 
martial penalties that are not of suffi cient severity 
to dismiss him from the party.
John Ordway (Yellow)
Sergeant of the U.S. Army, he is the right-hand 
man of the captains. In charge of guard duties 
and issuing provisions, he keeps the most detailed 
journal of the Expedition.
Nathaniel Pryor (Green)
Described by the captains as «a man of character 
and ability», he is one of the «Nine Young Men 
from Kentucky». He supervises the carpentry at 
Camp Dubois. 
Charles Floyd (Purple)
Quartermaster, he dies in August 1804 because 
of a fatal appendicitis. He is buried on a bluff 
overlooking the Missouri River in Iowa. He is he 
only person to die on the expedition.
Robert Frazer (Yellow)
He joins the Corps of Discovery belatedly, after 
Moses Reed’s desertion. He keeps a diary and a 
valuable map. 
George Gibson (Green)
He enlists as one of the “Nine Young Men from 
Kentucky” in 1803 and is a fi ne hunter and 
horseman and also plays the fi ddle. He has some 
skills in sign language.
J. Baptiste Lepage (Purple)
He is a French-Canadian fur trader who is living 
among Minitari and Mandan Indians when 
the expedition arrives here in 1804. He replaces 
discharged Private John Newman. 
He is one of the best hunters in the group, and is 
routinely sent out alone to scout the surrounding 
countryside for game. He is considered to be one 
of the fi rst mountain men.
He serves as a cook and was probably born 
in Kentucky. Before the expedition, he was 
disciplined for fi ghting with John Potts and is 
court-martialed in 1804 for mutiny.
Lewis’ black Newfoundland dog, he is the only 
animal to complete the entire trip. He hunts for 
food and provides warnings.
Clark’s manservant, he plays a key role in 
diplomatic relations. Because of his appearance, 
the Indians suspect he has magical powers. He 
saves Lewis from a grizzly bear.
Seaman (Blue)
York (Orange) 
Almost killed by a Tillamook Indian during a 
romantic assignation. On the return trip, he 
surprises a grizzly and has to scurry up a willow 
tree and wait for the bear to leave.
He serves as a cook and creates maps. He goes out 
with several elk-hunting parties to “cure” meat 
in the fi eld--a nearly essential skill in a damp 
climate.
Hugh McNeal (Blue)
John B. Th ompson (Orange) 
Captain of the U.S. Army and personal secretary 
to the President, he is chosen by President Jeff erson 
to command the Expedition.
Lieutenant during the Northwest Indian War, 
he is recruited by his friend Lewis when he is 33 
to share command of the newly formed Corps of 
Discovery.
Meriwether Lewis (Blue)
William Clark (Orange) 
Th anks to his French father and his Omaha 
mother he speaks 3 languages and is skilled in 
sign language. He is an expert riverman. He 
entertains the explorers with his fi ddle-playing. 
Recruited as an enlisted member of the Corps, he 
is an experienced boatman and Indian trader. 
He speaks English, French and several Indian 
languages.
Pierre Cruzatte (Blue)
François Labiche (Orange) 
He has a powerful physique and serves the 
expedition as blacksmith and gunsmith. He is 
able to repair equipment and make tools for 
trading with the Indians.
He serves as a tailor and keeps a journal. He is 
almost killed on the Jeff erson River.
Alexander H. Willard (Blue)
Joseph Whitehouse (Orange) 
John Shields (Yellow)
He is from Virginia and the oldest man of the 
party, enlisting in 1803 at the age of 34. A 
talented man, he is head blacksmith, gunsmith, 
boat builder and general repairman.
William Bratton (Green)
Skilled blacksmith from Kentucky, he is over six 
feet tall and square-built. He has been suff ering 
an extreme pain in his lower back for months and 
is cured in an Indian sweat lodge.
John Potts (Purple)
German immigrant and miller by trade, he is a 
trusted member of the party. He nearly drowns, 
almost bleeds to death when he cuts his leg, and 
is attacked by a grizzly bear.
He is a great hunter and woodsman. Crossing 
a bluff , he slips and starts to fall down its edge. 
Lewis runs and tells him to dig his knife in and 
climb up. He does so, and escapes death.
Th ey are brothers, two of the «Nine Young Men 
from Kentucky». Healthy and lucky, they are two 
of the top hunters of the expedition.
Richard Windsor (Blue)
Joseph & Ruben Field (Orange) 
George Shannon (Yellow)
18 years old, one of the “Nine Young Men from 
Kentucky”. He is a good singer, hunter and 
horseman. He gets lost occasionally, but always 
manages to fi nd his way back.
Peter Weiser (Green)
He serves as quartermaster, cook, and hunter. He 
is one of the Corps’ best shots .While the expedition 
is at Fort Clatsop, he is part of the salt-making 
detail on the Oregon coast.
John Collins (Purple)
Appointed cook for Sgt. Pryor’s mess, his main 
contribution is as one of the expedition’s best 
hunters. He captures specimens to scientifi cally 
document the Western wildlife.
Th e Blacksmiths
Collect Equipment (see page 7).
Th e Fur traders
Collect Fur (see page 7).

@A
Hay
Arikara chief, independent, friendly, he refuses to 
stop trading with the Teton Sioux
Little Raven
Mandan second chief of Matootonha village, met 
during the stay at Fort Mandan.
Ebenezer Tuttle
Private, recruited for the first part of the 
expedition up to Fort Mandan. He is sent back 
to Saint Louis with Pierre Chouteau’s party of 
fur traders.
Buff alo Medicine
Teton Sioux third chief, involved in a power 
struggle. He meets the Expedition on the Bad 
River in September,1804. 
René Jessaume
He lived with his Indian wife and children in 
the Mandan chief’s village. He helps the captains 
by providing them with information about the 
various chiefs and tribal politics.
Choose one of the four primary resources. Take as many 
resources of this type as there are face-up Characters in 
your Playing Area (Little Raven included). 
Activating this card with a Strength greater than 1 is 
useless (but not forbidden!).
Pay 1 Wood and take 1 Canoe.
Pay 1 Food and take 1 Canoe.
Pay 3 Furs and take 1 Horse.
Big Horse
Missouri chief interested in trade, especially for 
whiskey. Lewis and Clark meet him on the way 
back from buff alo hunts in August, 1804.
Put 2 Indians from your Boats to the Powwow area 
and take 1 Horse.
Moses B. Reed
Joseph Barter
John Robertson
J. Baptiste Deschamps
Private, discharged from the Corps for having 
deserted and stolen weapons.
Also known as La Liberté, a private in the U.S. 
Army before being assigned duties as a boatman. 
However, he deserts soon afterwards.
As a French boatman, he is appointed foreman 
of the French boatmen in the red pirogue. He is 
among the men who, in April, 1805, navigate 
the keelboat downriver to St. Louis.
Pay 2 Wood and move your Scout 2 spaces forward 
Pay 1 Canoe and move your Scout 5 spaces forward 
Pay 2 Equipment and move your Scout 3 spaces forward 
on the River.
Pay 1 Food and 1 Canoe and move your Scout 6 spaces 
forward on the River.
Initially a corporal, Clark demotes him for having 
«no authority» over his men and failing to stop 
a fi ght at Camp Dubois. He’s probably the fi rst 
man to leave the expedition. 
Charles Mackenzie
Fur trader, he works for the North West Company. 
Along with Larocque, he is a frequent visitor to 
Fort Mandan during the winter of 1804-1805.
Cuscalar
A Clatsop chief, he expects to trade goods with 
the expedition during the winter at Fort Clatsop. 
He gives presents and off ers women to Lewis and 
Clark.
John Dame
Aged 19, fair-haired and blue-eyed, he joins the 
Corps for the 1rst part of the journey and comes 
back to Saint Louis in the spring of 1805. He 
has shot a white pelican.
John Newman
Recruited at Fort Massac, he is expelled from 
the expedition following his court-martial for 
«having uttered repeated expressions of a highly 
criminal and mutinous nature.»
Pay 1 Fur and 1 Horse and move your Scout 3 spaces 
forward in the Mountains.
For each Strength that activates this card, pay 1 Horse 
and take into your hand a Character card you choose 
from the Journal of Encounters. Th en refi ll the Journal 
in the order drawn.
Pay 2 Wood and move your Scout 1 space forward in 
the Mountains.
Pay 1 Food and move your Scout 1 space forward on 
the River or in the Mountains.
Toussaint Charbonneau
F. Antoine Larocque
French-Canadian fur trader and explorer, he is 
employed by the North West Company. He wants 
to join the expedition but Lewis refuses because 
of his relations with Britain.
Joseph Gravelines
He is a French-Canadian who has been living 
with the Arikara for 13 years. He is hired to 
conduct the keelboat as its pilot. Later he will 
conduct some of the Arikara chiefs to Washington.
Pay 1 resource of your choice and perform the Action at 
the Village place of your choice, provided that there is a 
least one Indian in the chosen place. If you activate this 
Character several times, you can perform the Actions 
of various places or the Action of a place several times. 
However, you are not allowed to use or to take into 
account the resources and Indians you get as a result of 
the fi rst (or second) activation for the next activation. 
Th is Character has no eff ect when you activate him. But, 
if F. Antoine Larocque is face-up your Playing Area 
when your Scout moves (due to another Character), 
you “jump” the spaces where other Scouts are. Eg.: if 
there are 2 opposing Scouts in your way when you are 
moving 4 spaces, you actually end up moving six spaces, 
since you don’t count the spaces they’re on!
Th is Character has no eff ect when you activate him. But, 
if Joseph Gravelines is face-up in your Playing Area 
when you recruit a new Character, you are given a 2 
Furs discount on his price.
French-Canadian fur trader, violent and 
cowardly, he is known as the husband of 
Sacagawea. He serves as an interpreter. Lewis 
calls him «a man of no peculiar merit».
John Boley
He is one of the expedition’s reliable journeymen. 
He is recruited for the fi rst part of the expedition 
to Fort Mandan, and is assigned to the return 
party.
Th is Character has no eff ect when you activate him. If 
John Boley is face-up in your Playing Area when you 
set up Camp, decrease your Camp Time by 1. Th is card 
has no eff ect if your Camp Time is zero. A Camp Time 
can never be negative!
2&##,!-3,2#0#"
!&0!2#01
Take as many diff erent primary resources as there are 
face-up Characters in your Playing Area (including 
Hay), so up to 4 resources (each one diff erent from 
the others). 
Activating this card with a Strength greater than 1 is 
useless (but not forbidden!).

@B
Yellept
P. Antoine Tabeau
French-Canadian fur-trader and explorer; 
provides useful information about Arikara 
Indian tribes.
Walla Walla chief, he warmly welcomes the Corps 
of Discovery, and trades goods. Yellept gives Clark 
an elegant white horse. In return, Clark gives 
Yellept his sword.
John Hay
As a merchant, fur trader, and Cahokia’s post-
master, he provides information. Since he speaks 
French and English, he helps as an interpreter.
He is the principal chief of the lower Mandan 
village, nicknamed this way because of his size 
and complexion. He meets President Jeff erson in 
Washington after the expedition
Big White
Dickson & Hancock
Fur trappers, they meet the expedition in 
September,1806, during its return to Washington. 
Th ey invite John Colter to join them as a trapper. 
Black Moccasin
Pay 1 Wood and 1 Food and take 2 Canoes.
Pay 1 resource of any kind and take 2 primary resources 
of your choice. If you activate this Character several 
times, you are not allowed to use the resources you get 
as a result of the fi rst (or second) activation to trigger 
the next Action. You must use resources that had been 
previously held.
of the two resources: Fur or Wood, and collect it. (By 
activating this card three times, you can, for instance, 
collect Fur twice and Wood once.)
For each Strength that activates this card, choose one of 
the two resources: Equipment or Wood. Th en collect 
instance, collect Equipment twice and Wood once.)
of the two resources: Food or Fur. Th en collect it. (By 
activating this card three times, you can, for instance, 
collect Food twice and Fur once.)
of the two resources: Equipment or Food. Th en collect 
instance, collect Equipment twice and Food once.)
Minitari chief, he captured Sacagawea from the 
Shoshone a few years earlier.
Th ree Eagles
Flathead chief, he meets the party in September, 
1805, and welcomes, feeds, and swaps horses with 
the Corps of Discovery.
Pay 2 Equipment and take 1 Horse.
Black Buff alo
Teton Sioux chief, he has good character, although 
angry and fi erce. He asks Lewis and Clark for 
goods and tobacco. 
Hawk’s Feather
Man Crow
Arikara chief, agrees to attempt peace with the 
Mandan.
Arikara chief, challenger to Crow at Rest’s civil 
authority
Cutssahnem
Richard Warfi ngton
Half Man
Wanapam chief, he gives Lewis a map «of the 
rivers and Tribes above on the great river and its 
waters on which he puts great numbers of villages 
of his nation and friends.»
As an effi cient corporal, he leads the crew manning 
the white pirogue as it ascends the Missouri River 
and leads the return trip from Mandan villages.
Yankton Sioux chief, he warns the Expedition 
about powerful and hostile tribes.
many spaces forward on the River as there are Indians 
in your Boats. Do not take into account the Indians 
placed on the cards of your Playing Area.
Pay 1 Food and move your Scout 3 spaces forward on 
the River.
Pay 3 Wood and move your Scout 4 spaces forward 
Pay 3 resources of any kind and move your Scout 5 
spaces forward on the River. All the resources must be 
diff erent from each other.
Pay 1 Food and move your Scout as many spaces 
forward on the River as there are visible Food badges 
on the cards of your Playing Area and your 2 neighbors’ 
Playing Areas (or your only neighbor in a 2-player 
game). In a solo game, take into account the Food 
badges of your Playing Area and those of the occupied 
Village places. 
Pay 1 resource of any kind and move your Scout as 
many spaces forward on the River as there are Scouts 
located on or farther ahead of your Camp (your own 
Scout included). In a solo game, Alexander Mackenzie 
is considered as a Scout.
James Mackay
Fur trader, explorer, Scotsman, «perhaps the most 
widely travelled of the many traders met», he is 
the creator of the most complete Missouri River 
map used by Lewis & Clark.
Weuche
Yankton Nakota fi rst chief, he speaks of his people’s 
need for trading partners they could depend on, 
and of his people’s poverty. He wants guns and 
ammunition to fully cooperate.
Pay 1 Horse and move your Scout forward 3 spaces, 
either on the River or in the Mountains; not both! If 
activated more than once, each multiple of 3 can be 
either River or Mountains. 
Pay 2 Equipment and move your Scout as many spaces 
forward in the Mountains as there are visible Equipment 
badges on the cards of your Playing Area and your 
2 neighbors’ Playing Areas (or your neighbor in a 
2-player game). In a solo game, count the Equipment 
badges in your Playing Area and those in the occupied 
Village places.
Nicholas Jarrot
French citizen, he serves as an interpreter for 
Lewis when he meets the Spanish Governor. He 
off ers his land to build Camp Dubois and sells 
gear and supplies for the journey .
Th e Partisan
Teton Sioux chief, he is mercurial, and struggles 
for power with Black Buff alo. He meets Lewis 
and Clark in a tense situation on the Missouri 
in September 1804.
Pierre Dorion
Married to a Yankton woman, he joins the 
expedition as an interpreter. In April 1805, he 
is sent back to St.Louis with chiefs of the Yankton, 
Omaha, Oto & Missouri tribes.
Th is Character has no eff ect when you activate him. But 
if Nicholas Jarrot is face-up in your Playing Area when 
you move your Scout forward on the River (thanks to 
another Character), add 2 spaces to one movement on 
the River (the Strength given to the other Character 
doesn’t matter). 
Pay 1 Food and activate one face-up Character, of 
your Playing Area or any players’ Playing Area, once, 
regardless of the Strength originally used to activate 
that Character (same Action as Shamanism). Eg: If you 
give the Partisan 2 Strength, you can copy two face-up 
Characters’ Actions, or copy the Action of one face-up 
Character twice. You are not allowed to use or to take 
into account the resources and Indians you get as a 
result of the fi rst (or second) activation for the next 
activation. 
Pay 3 Furs and move your Scout forward 2 spaces in 
the Mountains.

@C
Twisted Hair
Black Cat
Grand Chief of the Mandan villages, he possesses 
«integrity, fi rmness and intelligence». He supplies 
the Americans with food during the winter at 
Fort Mandan.
Nez Perce chief, a «cheerful man with apparent 
sincerity», helps build dugout canoes
Régis Loisel
French-Canadian fur trader and explorer at La 
Charette, on the Missouri River.
Hugh Heney
Canadian fur trader, a «very sensible, intelligent 
man», he knows the Teton Sioux like no other 
white man. Heney sends some snakebite medicine 
to Lewis & Clark.
Cameahwait
Shoshone chief, he is Sacagawea’s brother. He 
provides Lewis and Clark hospitality and horses 
to repay them for reuniting him with his long-
lost sister.
Pay 1 Canoe and take 2 Canoes. If you activate this 
Character several times, you are not allowed to use 
the resources you get as a result of the fi rst (or second) 
activation to trigger the next Action. You must use 
Canoes that had been previously held.
Take 2 primary resources of your choice. Th ey can be 
diff erent or identical.
For each Strength that activates this card, choose one of 
the three resources: Equipment, Food or Wood. Th en 
collect it. (By activating this card three times, you can, 
for instance, collect Equipment once, Food once and 
Wood once.)
of the three resources: Fur, Food or Wood. Th en collect 
instance, collect Fur once, Food once and Wood once.)
Comcomly
Broken Arm
Nez Perce chief. Honest and generous, he gives 
the Corps horses and desires to make peace with 
the Shoshone.
Chinook chief, most powerful leader at the mouth 
of the Columbia, he is described as «a shrewd old 
savage with but one eye». He is friendly to the 
white explorers.
Pay 1 Equipment, 1 Food, 1 Fur and 1 Wood and move 
your Scout 7 spaces forward on the River.
Pay 1 Equipment and take 1 Horse.
Daniel Boone
Legendary pioneer, he is the fi rst White colonist 
of Kentucky. He has blazed his Wilderness Road 
through the Appalachian Mountains. He might 
have met the Expedition.
Coboway
He is the only Clatsop leader to make recorded 
contact with the Expedition. He exchanges some 
goods, including a sea otter pelt, for fi sh hooks 
and a small bag of Shoshone tobacco. 
Watkuweis
Old Toby
Little Th ief
Shoshone guide, he is sent by Cameahwait to 
lead the Expedition across the Rockies. He guides 
Clark’s exploration of the Salmon River.
As the Otoe’s leading chief, he is a shrewd trader 
and a clever diplomat. In March 1805, he meets 
with President Jeff erson, who promises trade goods 
and tells him he hopes for peace.
She is a Nez Perce woman who lived a long time 
with white traders, who treated her well. Seeing 
her tribe plotting to kill the Corps, she asks them 
to do «no hurt» to the explorers.
many spaces forward on the River as there are Indians 
in the Village (on the game board).
Pay 1 Equipment, 1 Food, 1 Fur and 1 Wood and move 
your Scout 4 spaces forward in the Mountains.
Pay 1 resource of your choice and move your Scout as 
many spaces forward on the River as there are face-up 
Characters in your Playing Area (Watkuweis included). 
Pay 1 Canoe and 1 Horse and move your Scout 6 spaces 
forward, either on the River or in the Mountains; not 
both! If activated more than once, each multiple of 6 
can be either River or Mountains.
Put 1 Indian from your Boats to the Powwow area and 
move your Scout 1 space forward on the River per pair 
of resources of any kind you have on your Boats. Th e 
resources do not have to be identical. Do not pay your 
resources.
Crow at Rest
Grand Arikara chief, he is interested in trading 
buff alo skin. He assures the Corps that the Arikara 
would let them travel on in safety and that peace 
with the Mandan is desirable.
Pay 2 Furs and 2 Equipment and move your Scout 
3 spaces forward in the Mountains.
One Eye
Cut Nose
One Eye, a.k.a. Le Borgne, was the most notorious 
chief on the upper Missouri. Having an infamous 
reputation, he is described as cruel, lecherous, and 
ill-tempered.
Nez Perce chief, he provides three guides to the 
expedition to cross the mountains.
Sacagawea
Tetoharsky
Nez Perce Chief, he helps the Corps cross the 
Snake River. He acts as an advance man and 
translator and helps secure friendly relations with 
the Indians of the upper Columbia.
George Drouillard
Th e son of a French-Canadian and a Shawnee 
mother, he is known as a skillful scout, woodsman, 
and interpreter. He often conducts special missions 
for Lewis and Clark.
many spaces forward in the Mountains as there are 
of Scouts located on or farther ahead of your Camp 
(your own Scout included). In a solo game, Alexander 
Mackenzie is considered as a Scout.
Th is Character has no eff ect when you activate him. But 
if Cut Nose is an Active Character of your Playing Area 
when you move your Scout forward in the Mountains 
(thanks to another Character), add 1 space to one 
movement in the Mountains (the Strength given to 
the other Character doesn’t matter). 
Perform one of the Village Actions, whether the Action 
location is occupied by Indians or not.
You are not allowed to use or to take into account the 
resources and Indians you get as a result of the fi rst (or 
second) activation for the next activation (For instance, 
by activating it twice, you cannot collect 2 Wood using 
the Crafts and then make a Canoe with these 2 Wood).
Put 1 Indian from your Boats to the Powwow area. Th en 
move your Scout 1 space forward in the Mountains per 
group of 3 resources of any kind you have on your 
Boats. Th e resources do not have to be identical. Do 
not pay your resources.
Put 1 Indian from your Boats to the Powwow area and 
pay 1 resource of any kind. Th en move your Scout 2 
spaces forward in the Mountains.
Shoshone Indian, she joins the expedition with 
her husband Toussaint Charbonneau and gives 
birth during the journey. She is the guide and the 
interpreter of the party.
Pay 1 Canoe and take 1 Horse or pay 1 Horse and 
take 1 Canoe.

@D
Visit our web site www.ludonaute.fr. and fi nd videos, F.A.Q. ...
!),-5*#"%#+#,21
I would like to thank my wife Karine for her support during this adventure of a fi rst published game 
such as Lewis & Clark.
Huge thanks to Cédric and Anne-Cécile Lefebvre for their trust and kindness. Th e development of the 
« Village 1900 » was above all a team work and I couldn’t dream of better teammates.
Hats off to Vincent Dutrait, whose passion for this expedition carried us away.
Th anks also to all the persons who tested this game and took part in his evolution: Ludonaute’s team 
(Philippe, Julien, Sébastien, Guillaume, Pierre...), Niort gaming club members (Patrick, François, 
Sébastien A., Sébastien F., Olivier, Éric...), and all the gamers met on conventions.
And at last, I thank Uwe Rosenberg for having created Le Havre, and Benoît Christen for asking me to 
play the postman in Toulouse.
1-*-40',2
13++07
Set Up
Set-up proceeds in the usual way.
Th en place one of the remaining Scouts - who will be called Alexander Mackenzie - on 
a route space between 0 (easy level) and 7 (expert level) spaces upriver from Saint Louis.
Place the 8 resource badge tokens on the Village locations according to their backs 
(matching the illustrations on the board).
2- Your Opponent : Alexander Mackenzie
After you have fi nished your turn, move the Alexander Mackenzie fi gure one space 
forward on the route. Th is fi gure is treated as a Scout.
You win the game if you manage to settle your Camp in Fort Clatsop (or beyond) 
before the arrival of Alexander Mackenzie at Fort Clatsop.
In the Solo game, you apply the same rules as for the multi-player game except for 
the two following diff erences:
1- Primary Resources Collection
In this variant, each place where an Indian is present in the Indian Village provides 
the resource corresponding to its resource badge. 
During a collection, add up the number of badges of the resource being collected that 
are visible in your Playing Area and on the occupied places of the Village.
Cédrick plays the Hunter with a Character card having a Strength of 3. Th e Hunting and Shamanism 
places are occupied; they provide one Food each that is added to the Food provided by the Food badge 
in the Playing Area. Cédrick can therefore take 3x3 = 9 Food thanks to this Action.
Alexander Mackenzie was a Scottish explorer. In 1789, he set out by canoe on the river 
known as the Dehcho (later renamed the Mackenzie River in his honor) following it to 
its mouth in the hope of fi nding the Northwest Passage to the Pacifi c Ocean. He ended up 
reaching the Arctic Ocean. He set out again in 1792 and crossed over the Coast Mountains. 
Descending the Bella Coola river, he reached the Pacifi c coast on 22 July 1793. Th us he 
completed the fi rst recorded east to west transcontinental crossing of North America north 
of Mexico.
Pay 1 Food and, once only, copy 
the Action of a Character card 
already played.
Pay 3 diff erent resources and take 
1 Horse.
Pay 2 Wood and take 1 Canoe.
Take directly 1 food and 1 fur.
Take directly 2 furs or 2 woods.
Take directly 1 equipement and 
1 wood
Pay 3 wood and add one Boat to 
your Expedition.
Discard cards from your hand and 
renew the Journal of Encounters’ 
cards.
Take the Indians on the game 
board and add them to your 
Discard the last card in the 
journal.
A Scout movement can never end on the same space as an opponent’s Scout.
VILLAGE ACTIONS
STARTING CHARACTERS
Move your Scout forward on the 
River or in the Mountains and 
pay resources. 
Take resources from the Stock, 
up to the total number of 
visible badges of this resource in 
your and your two neighbours’ 
Playing Areas.
PERFORM 1 COMPULSORY ACTION:
GAME TURN
Either a card from your hand, activated with 
Strength from another Character-card played 
face down and/or Indians.
Or an Indian Village Action. Place:
• 1 Indian on an empty circle
• or from 1 to 3 Indians on a 
semicircle, already occupied 
or empty
Two phases are optional. Each of them can 
be done once per turn, before or after the 
compulsory Action:
Recruit a new Character 
Set up Camp
1. Place all your Indians back on your 
Boats.
2. Calculate your Time spent in Camp 
(equal to the sum of Time icons on 
the cards still in your hand and on 
your loaded Boats).
3. Move your Scout backwards by the 
same number of spaces as your Time 
spent in Camp.
4. Bring your Camp up to your Scout.
5. Take all the cards back into your 
hand.
RECRUIT A NEW CHARACTER
SET UP CAMP
Add a Character from the Journal to your 
hand by paying the cost in Fur and Equipment 
(part of the Equipment cost can be saved by 
discarding one card from your hand).

Warning! 
Not 
suitable for children 
under 3 years of age. 
Contains small parts 
that may be inhaled 
or swallowed. 
LEW01
3 770002 176184
Ludonaute
11 A rue des pivettes
13800 Istres France
contact@ludonaute.fr
www.ludonaute.fr
Distributed in North America 
by Asmodee Editions LLC
20 Gateway Drive, Suite 400, 
Plattsburgh, NY 12901 - USA.
www.asmodee.com
contact_us@asmodee.com
Made in China
SKU : LEW01
CÉDRICK CHABOUSSIT
VINCENT DUTRAIT
LUDONAUTE
KARINE CHABOUSSIT
ANDREW MACLEOD
30'/
1-5
14+
Win the race to the West and make history!
Each turn, choose which side of your cards will be played.
Each step of your journey, manage your Expedition’s resources sparingly.
Each game, create a new party of Characters. 
!-+.-,#,21
1 game board
5 individual boards
12 Boat tiles
29 various tokens
5 Scout fi gures
18 Indian fi gures
100 Resource hexagons
84 Character cards
Game rules
2014-1/LEW01/LUD1