A game by Paolo Mori
Logbook

is the name of a utopian pirate colony, the only place in the world where retired pirates can 
finally enjoy their amassed fortunes without fear of being lynched or the saber which will end 
their lives. No one knows if it really exists but it really doesn’t matter, because your only goal 
is to become as rich as possible in order to create it whole cloth, off the coast of Europe, or off 
of Madagascar, or even further away.
Contents
• 1 game board;
• 6 pirate dens 
(one for each player);
• 6 score tokens 
(one for each player);
• 6 crew marker cards;
• 180 character cards 
(30 for each player);
• 1 score track;
• 50 booty tokens 
(4 chests, 6 jewels, 
10 goods, 6 Spanish officers, 
6 sabers, 8 treasure maps, 10 cursed relics);
• 13 doubloons of value 10;
• 15 doubloons of value 5;
• 45 doubloons of value 1; 
Object of the game 
The players take on the role of crew 
members of a pirate ship nearing retirement. 
During the 3 campaigns which compose 
the game, they will try to amass riches by 
looting ships. The richest player at the end 
of the game is the winner. With their help, 
Libertalia will come to life! 
The author would like to thank, 
for their help and the test games:
Sara, Luca Bianchi, Mauro Di Marco, Francesco Sirocchi, 
Simone Berti, Giovanni Taverna, Luca Chiapponi, Oliver Macdonald,
Andrea Chiarvesio, Carlo A. Rossi, Alessandro Zucchini, 
Alfredo Berni, Riccardo Pellitteri, Aigar Alaveer, Chris Stanton.
Asterion Press would like to thank:
Morgan Ghidoni, Davide Carnevali, 
Nereo Sciutto, Stefano Caffagni, 
Teresa Bove, Chiara Soave, 
Gianluca Gianferrari, Andrea Storchi.
A game by Paolo Mori
Artwork by Benjamin Carré 
and Stéphane Gantiez.

Influence
Special action
Name
Rank 
and color
associated 
with the 
player
Day
Dusk
Night
End of 
the 
campaign
A character who is discarded is 
placed face-down in the graveyard 
of its owner’s den.
In this case, 
the blue Parrot 
has the higher rank.
Night Action
Day Action
Dusk Action
End of the 
Campaign Action
Example of Special Actions
The character cards
These cards are central to the game. They 
represent the various members of the play-
er’s crew as well as important individuals 
who remain on land. Not all of them have 
the same influence or the same importance. 
Moreover, each of them has a special ability 
which will have to be used during the game.
Each character card has a name and a rank. 
The rank is written at the top left of the card 
and goes from 1 to 30. The higher the value, 
the more important the rank. The character 
with the highest rank is the Spanish gov-
ernor. The one with the lowest rank is the 
parrot (one of the captain’s mascots).
In the lower left, in the silver mark, is a 
number which corresponds to the charac-
ter’s influence on the other crews. It’s a sim-
ple method to solve ties, as we’ll see later in 
the rules. In short, when two characters of 
the same rank are played at the same time, 
it’s the one with the highest influence (the 
greatest value in its silver mark) who is con-
sidered to be of higher rank.
Special actions
The special actions are always associated 
with the time at which they are used, 
identified by a pictogram. Using a special 
action is mandatory unless otherwise 
written on the card. If the action is 
impossible, it is ignored.
Here’s how each type 
of action is resolved:
	
Day 
This special action is only resolved once per 
game, when the character is played. The 
day actions are resolved in increasing order 
of rank.
	
Dusk
This special action is only resolved once 
per game, when the character is played.
The dusk actions are resolved in decreasing 
order of rank.
	
Night 
This special action is resolved during the 
night phase of each turn as long as the 
character with the action is present in the 
player’s den.
	
End of the campaign 
This special action is resolved only once per 
game, at the end of the campaign in which 
the character was played and only if it is 
still present in the player’s den at the end 
of the campaign.

	
	
Setup
Place the board in the middle of the table.
Each player randomly gets a color by 
drawing a face-down crew marker card 
and gets the den, the crew marker card, the 
score token, and the 30 cards of that color. 
The players place their den in front of them 
and their cards next to it.
Place the score track to the side. Each player 
places their score token on the “0” space.
Each player gets 10 doubloons (1 of value 
5 and 5 of value 1). The remaining doubloons 
are set aside and form the bank.
Place all booty tokens in a bag and shuffle 
them thoroughly.
Draw 1 booty token per player per day 
of the campaign and place them on the 
various spaces under the ship which 
will be looted by the players (example: 
24 booty tokens for a 4 player game).
During a 4 player game, each space under 
the ship must contain 4 booty tokens.
The youngest player shuffles their character 
cards and draws 9. They read the number 
(the rank) and name out loud so that each 
player chooses the same cards as them.
Each player takes these 9 cards in their hand.
Player’s Cemetary (discarded characters are placed here)
Player’s Hand
Player’s Den
•At the start of the first campaign, all the 
players will have in hand the same 9 characters.
•The other characters are set aside for the 
moment and will only be used during the 
other campaigns which make up 
the game. In order to avoid confu-
sion, each player places their 
crew marker card face up on 
their unused cards.
Important

x6
Game overview
The game takes place over 3 campaigns. 
During each campaign the players will re-
solve 6 days of looting (from the sunrise 
phase through the night phase) and 1 day of 
rest during which their riches will be totaled.
During the 6 first days of a campaign, each 
player will secretly play a character card 
from their hand onto the ship in order to 
try and get shares of the booty.
During the day of rest, the riches of each 
player are totaled, noted on the score track 
and the next campaign is prepared for. 
When all three campaigns have been played, 
the richest player is crowned the winner.
First campaign
The first six days of looting
Phase 1: sunrise
Each player secretly chooses a character 
card from their hand and places it face-
down on the table in front of them. When 
all the players have done so, the cards thus 
played are revealed. The youngest player 
places all the characters in increasing order 
of rank on the spaces on the ship which 
are set aside for that purpose. If multiple 
players have played the same character, 
the influence of the characters (the value in 
the silver mark) allows players to sort them 
in order of rank: whoever has the greatest 
value in their silver mark is of higher rank.
Phase 2: day
In increasing order of rank (so from left 
to right), each player will resolve the “day” 
special action of the character they’ve played.
Phase 3: dusk
It’s time to share the booty!
In decreasing order of rank (so from right 
to left), each player will choose a booty 
token from the space under the ship corres-
ponding to the day played.
Example: during the 3rd day, the players will 
loot the third space to the left under the ship. 
The “dusk” special actions (which generally 
affect the sharing of the booty) are resolved 
at the same time and in the same order. 
If a player chooses a Spanish officer or a 
saber tile, the player must immediately 
resolve their effect (see inset). 
Otherwise, the player places the chosen 
booty token face-down in their den. The 
player’s character is then placed in the 
player’s den, face-up.
The booty tokens that remain (eventually) 
at the end of this phase are left on the board 
until the end of the current campaign.
Phase 4: NIGHT
Players all resolve this phase simulta-
neously. All characters present in their dens 
use their “night” special actions.
Scoring Phase: the day of rest
All players resolve this phase simultane-
ously. All characters present in their den use 
their “end of the campaign” special actions.
The fortune of each player is equal to 
the number of doubloons in their den, to 
which are added the following sums:
	
• Chests are worth 5 doubloons.
	
• Jewels are worth 3 doubloons.
	
• Goods are worth 1 doubloon.
	
• Each set of 3 treasure maps is worth 
12 doubloons. Sets of 1 or 2 treasure maps 
are worthless as they are incomplete.
	
• Each cur­sed relic makes you lose 
3 doubloons.
	
• Sabers and Spanish officers 
are worth nothing.
The players then move their score token 
a number of spaces equal to their total 
fortune (in doubloons) on the score track. 
Their final score will be the sum of all dou-
bloons won during the three campaigns.
SaBER: 
this is a good chance for you to split 
the booty to settle your accounts. You 
must choose a character in the den from 
a player directly to your right or left and 
discard it. The character mysteriously dies 
during the division of the booty, however 
if neither of your adjacent neighbors have 
characters in their dens, nothing happens. 
The saber is then placed in your den, 
face-down.
Spanish officer:
you’ve been lucky enough to 
take a Spanish officer prisoner, 
but he didn’t surrender without a 
fight. Your character is discarded 
instead of being added to your den. The 
Spanish officer is then placed face-down 
in your den.

Preparation for the 
next campaign
 The characters in the graveyard or in 
the players’ dens are removed from the 
game (they will not be used for the rest 
of the game).
 All booty­ tokens are ret­urned to the bag.
 All the doubloons are returned to the bank.
 Players should have in hand only the 
3 character cards which they haven’t 
played during the previous campaign 
(some characters played may modify 
the number of cards kept).
 Each player gets 10 doubloons (1 of 
value 5 and 5 of value 1). The remai-
ning doubloons are set aside and form 
the bank.
 The youngest player shuffles the 
remainder of their deck of cards and 
draws 6. They read the number (the 
rank) and name out loud so that every 
other player can select the same cards 
as they did.
 Each player takes these 6 cards and 
adds them to their hand.
 Each player will thus have 6 cards which 
will be identical to those of the other 
players, plus the 3 cards which have been 
kept from the previous campaign.
End of the game
The game takes place over 3 campaigns. 
The player whose score token has 
reached the highest value on the score 
track at the end of the third campaign 
is crowned the winner.
A few clarifications
• Booty tokens can remain face-down 
until a game action requires that they 
be looked at. In short, the players must 
always reveal the relevant booty tokens 
when resolving an action.
• Each time a player loses doubloons, 
the loss is rounded down to the nea-
rest smaller whole number. If a player 
doesn’t have enough doubloons to cover 
the entire loss, then all of that player’s 
fortune is lost (or nothing if a player pos-
sesses no doubloons) and the remainder 
of the action is resolved normally.
• If there’s a need to determine in what 
order a night action is resolved, the 
decreasing order of the characters’ ranks 
is used.
• When a booty token must be discarded, 
it is immediately returned to the bag.

Follow our army of ants on our blog: 
marabunta-games.com