Objective of the Game
There was a rich earth spreading over a recessed mountain .
The architects were bunished from the city where they lived; so they search
 of the place of living.
That place is the new place they was looking for.
They divided into several teams, and decided to build up their new town.
You are the leader of a team of architects.
Let's dispatch workers to the town, collect resources and money, 
build buildings and develop this little town.
In this game, you can acquire resources such as trees, stones, ﬁsh, wheat 
from the surrounding areas by putting workers (workers) on the board.
You can build buildings based on their resources.
By building a building, you can also gain the eﬀect of the building when put 
a worker around it.
The victory points necessary to win the game are obtained by the building 
eﬀect, building construction, and achieving the goal to be dealt at the 
beginning of the game.
Through 4 rounds, the player who gathered the most victory points will be 
the winner.

Components
■Rule Book
■Tile List
■Main Board　×１
■Tiles
　　・Building Tiles　×29　　　　　 
・Goal Tiles　×15　　
　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　・Start Player Marker　×１
■Wooden Pieces
　・Workers　×17　　　　　　　　
　
　・Houses　×26　　　　　　 
・Resources　×60
■Paper Tokens
　・Coins　×24 
　　　　　　　 
・Victory Point Tokens　×４
　・Player Markers　×４ 
 
 
・Round Marker　×１
1 by each color　　※Other illust on the other side
1 Coin ×16
３Coin ×８
Wheat Field Tiles ×５
Other Building Tiles×24
80 40
※Face: 40 points / Tail: 80 points
Blue×５　Red×５　Yellow×４　Black×３
Blue×７　Red×７　Yellow×６　Black×６
Victory Point Truck
Building
Area
Truck
Wood×15　Stone×15　Fish×15　Wheat×15

■ Preparation of the game ............................................ p4
Distribute the following according to the number of players
2 players: workers × 5, houses × 7, goal tile × 5, 3 coins
3 players: workers × 4, houses × 6, goal tile × 4, 3 coins
4 players: workers × 3, houses × 6, goal tile × 3, 3 coins
Arrange the wheat ﬁeld tiles and 12 randomly selected other building tiles into 
the supply.
■ Flow of the Round
Start his or her turn from the start player clockwise.
When all the players' workers are gone, the round ends.
● Turn .......................................................................... p6
Select one of the following and execute
· Place a worker and get the eﬀect of surrounding area.
※ Rent (1 coin) is required for using buildings of other players
· Build a building.
※ The workers is put on the building area on the board; and a house is put on the 
building tiles
● End of the Round ...................................................... p9
· Execute the eﬀects of buildings with eﬀect at the end of the round.
· Food (wheat or ﬁsh) equivalent to the number of workers will be paid.
※ -3 VP per deﬁcit
· Return all workers to hands
● What you can do anytime ......................................... p10
· Achievement of Goal Tile
At the time of achieving the goal tile, declare achievement and reveal the tiles. 
You get victory points at the end of the game.
· Resource substitution
You can use 3 coins as a substitute for any resources.
■ End of Game ............................................................ p11
After the fourth round, the game is ﬁnished.
Go forward the victory point track for the following victory points.
· Victory points of the buildings that his or her built
· Victory points of goal tiles achieved
· 1 victory point per 3 money
The player who had the highest victory point becomes the winner.
　
Game Summary
In this game you will aim to get the most victory points through 4 rounds.
First, a summary of the rules is shown below. 
For details, please refer to each page.

Preparation of the Game (1)
■ Preparation of Workers
The number of workers to be used changes according to the number of players.
There are 5 blue and red workers, 4 yellow workers and 3 black workers. 
Please distribute the same number of workers by color for each player.
2 players: 5 workers (blue, red)
3 players: 4 workers (blue, red, yellow)
4 players: 3 workers (blue, red, yellow, black)
■ Preparation of Houses
The number of workers to be used changes according to the number of players.
There are 7 blue and red houeses, 6 yellow and black houses.
Please distribute the same number of houses by for each player.
2 players: 7 houses (blue, red)
3 players: 6 houses (blue, red, yellow)
4 players: 6 houses (blue, red, yellow, black)
■ Preparation of Goal Tiles
The number of goal tiles to be used changes according to the number of players.
Please shuﬄe and distribute the tiles to use randomly.
Only you can see your goal tiles.
Please discard the goal tile that can not be achieved and draw a new tile. (See p10)
2 players: 5 goal tiles
3 players: 4 goal tiles
4 players: 3 goal tiles
■ Preparation of Building Tiles
Pile 5 wheat ﬁled tiles in one place.
Shuﬄe the other building tiles and select 12 randomly and arrange them on the desk.
* In the ﬁrst game, we recommend using the following 12 buildings.
(Bakery, grocery store, trading shop, stone shop, granary, gold mine, well, workshop, 
factory, church, statue of a hero, castle)
■ Other Components
· Deal 3 coins for each player.
· Resources, victory point tokens, remaining coins are all used.
· Please put player markers are the same color as workers and houses at the 0 position 
of the victory point track on the board.
· Place the round marker at position 1 on the round track.
· Pass the start player marker to the player who won the rock-paper-scissors.
That player will be the start player for the ﬁrst round.

■Set Up
After you are ready in the previous page, we will set up the ﬁeld.
Players sit around tables and arrange the components as shown below.　
Preparation of the Game (2)
Place the round 
marker in Round 1.
Place building tiles to 
be used face up.
(Called a Supply)
The pieces delivered to each player 
are put together at the player's hand.
※ The board is printed in double sided. 
In the ﬁrst game, we recommend to use 
the side with the title logo in the upper right.
The rest of the coins, 
resources, victory point chips 
etc are put together in one 
place. (Called a Stock)
Place player markers which equal to 
the number of players, on the 0 of 
victory point track.
Please move the marker clockwise 
when winning points are acquired.

Turn Actions (1)
In each round, we will turn clockwise in order from "start player" with start 
player marker. Please decide start player for the ﬁrst round with rock-
scissors-paper etc.
In turn, The player choose one of two actions "place a worker" and 
"construct a building" and execute it. 
Both actions use one worker. If all the players have run out of workers, the 
round ends.
In other words, it will take 5 turns for 2 players in 1 round, 4 turns for 3 
players, 3 turns for 4 players.。
■Place a Worker
In the placement of workers, you can place a worker on an empty grassy 
ﬁeld on the board (a terrain is not drawn, a building tile or a worker is not 
placed) and you can get the eﬀect of 8 squares around.
Three types of terrain, "Forest", "Mountain" and "Lake" are drawn on the 
board, and you can acquire the resources of "wood" "stone" "ﬁsh" respectively.
Resources are acquired from the stock and placed at hand.
Also, if there is a "building" around the worker you placed, you can activate 
the building. Activate the building and you can get the eﬀect drawn on the 
lower part of the building tile.
Fish from Lake
Stone fromMountain
Wood from Forest
Get
Activate the wheat ﬁeld 
and get wheat.
Even if the picture of terrain is 
connected to the neibor squares, 
each square will be treated as 
one terrain. In this case, you 
can get ﬁsh from each square.

Turn Actions (2)
=Wood
=Stone
=Fish
=Wheat
=Coin
=Victory Point
=Any Resource
If the arrow is drawn the eﬀect of a normal building tile represents the eﬀect 
of converting what is drawn on the left side to that on the right side.
If the arrow is not drawn, it represents the eﬀect of simply acquiring 
something drawn. The meaning of the eﬀect icon is as follows.
Note that, in order to activate a building owned by another player (house 
of another player is on), you must pay 1 coin
as a rent to the owning player.
The eﬀects of surrounding squares can be handled by the player in the any order.
Also, you do not have to use buildings you do not want to use (or can not use).
※ In the example of the above ﬁgure, you can use the wheat acquired in the wheat 
ﬁeld at the bakery by activating the baker after activating the wheat ﬁeld.
　　　　
When coins runs out, 
you can not use the 
buildings of other players!
Let's use buildings of other 
players more and more!
パン屋
You can convert wheat into 4 coins by 
paying a rent 1 coin to a red player.
Conversion is only once in one activation 
and you can not obtain 8 coins even if 
you have 2 wheat.

Turn Actions (3)
ボード上の
好きな場所に配置
When construct the building, 
place the worker on the building 
area.
You can place a worker on either 
of two building areas.
Construct building can be done 
even if workers are already in place.
Place the house representing 
the owner on the upper left of 
the building tile that was built.
■Construct a Building
In the construction of the building, a worker is placed at the building area and a 
building tile selected from the supply is placed in a empty grass ﬁeld on the board 
(the terrain is not drawn, and the building tile and the worker is not placed).
By constructing a building, you can gain the eﬀect of the building when you place a 
worker at surround squares, and you can acquire victory points at the end of the game.
When building a building, it is necessary to pay the building cost drawn on the upper 
left of the building tile as a cost. (Return to the stock)
Place the house on the tile to show the owner to the building that you built.
Please refer to the tile list for details of building tiles.
It is the cost to build 
this building.
You will pay the stock 
when building.
This is the victory point of the 
building tile.
The owner can acquire it at 
the end of the game.
It is the eﬀect of this building.
When a worker is placed, this 
building can be used if there 
is this building in 8 
surrounding squares.
In this wheat ﬁeld tile you can 
aquire one wheat.

This is a large penalty 
for victory points 
due to lack of food!
End of the Round
When all the players' workers at hand are gone, the round is ﬁnished.
You perform the following at the end of the round.
　
■Execute the Eﬀects of Buildings
There are several buildings (residence and cathedrals) that give special eﬀects 
to the owner at the end of the round, instead of having the eﬀect of placing 
the workers.
Please execute those eﬀects at this time. (See tile list for details)
■Food Supply
At the end of the round, all players need to supply food to workers.
Each player must pay the same number of food (ﬁsh or wheat) as the 
number of workers. (Return to the stock)
※ You can pay ﬁsh and wheat with any combination you like.
3 victory points will be deducted for each food that can not be paid.
※ Victory points can become negative.
■Return All Workers　　　　
Return all the workers placed on the board and on the building area to hand.
※ Leave building tiles and houses on the board as they are.
■Preparation of Next Round
Move the round marker at the next round position and hand the start player 
marker to the next start player.
As the round changes, the start player will also changes in a clockwise.
Note that, at the fourth round of three players game, the player with the 
fewest victory points becomes the start player .
3 Foods for 3 Workers.
(4 Players)
5 Foods for 5 Workers.
(2 Players)
-3
-3VP for each missing food.

What you can do anytime
The following actions can be done at any time during the game, if necessary.
■Achievement of Goal Tile
A goal tile is a tile that gives several victory points at the end of the game by 
achieving the stated goal, and 3 to 5 tiles are dealt per player at the start of the game.
However, depending on the combination with randomly selected building tiles, the 
goal may not be achievable at the start of the game. In that case, 
please reveal the tile and discard it, and draw the new tile from the rest of goal tiles.
※ There is no goal tiles that can not be achieved with the set of building tiles for 
the ﬁrst game.
During the game, if you achieve your goal tile, declare that and reveal the tile.
You can obtain victory points at the end of the game with the tiles you have revealed.
There are no disadvantages on tiles that could not achieve.
Please refer to the tile list for details of the goal tiles.
■Resource substitution
At any time during the game you can use 3 coins instead of any resource.
※ Construction of a building, building eﬀect, food supply etc. can all be substituted.
※ However, in case payment does not occur in particular, 3 coins can not be 
exchanged for resource stocks.
This is a goal to be achieved.
When you construct a building containing ﬁsh in 
building eﬀect, the goal will achieved.
At the beginning of the game, if there are no 
buildings containing ﬁsh in the building eﬀect, 
please change the tile as it is not achievable.
This is the victory points obtained by achieving the goal.
If you achieve, this victory points will be added at the end of the game.
Can be substituted at any time

End of the Game
After 4 rounds, the game will end.
In addition to the victory points acquired during the game, players obtaine the 
following victory points.
　
■Victory Points of Goal Tile Achieved
Get the victory points drawn on the goal tile which has been achieved 
and revealed.
　
■Victory Points of Building Tiles
Get the victory points drawn on the upper right of the building tile 
that you own.
　
■1 Victory Point per 3 Coins
At the end of the game, get one victory point for every 3 coins you possess.
After calculating these victory points, the player with the highest victory 
point will be the winner.
If there are two or more players with the highest victory points, 
please share the victory.
This victory points are obtained.
This victory points are obtained.

奥付
・If the victory point goes over 40, place the victory point chip on your hand 
face up to represent 40 victory points, and return the player marker to the 
0 position of the victory point track.
If the victory point goes over 80, face down the chip to represent 80 victory 
points.
If there are not enough victory point chiips, substitute with something.
・When there are no resources or coins in the stock, players can not obtain 
them any more.
・If the victory point becomes negative due to lack of food, since there is no 
negative victory point chip, please move the victory point track in the 
opposite direction to represent minus.
・The player can not construct building if he or she has no houses.
Maximum number of building the player can build is equal to the number of 
houses (2 players : 7 buildings, 3, 4 players : 6 buildings)
・Three 1 (Silver) coins and a 3 (Gold) coins are treated as the same in this 
game. You can exchange them any time.
Other Rules
Credits
Game Design: Shun
Illustration: AYA
Development: Shun & AYA
Special Thanks︓　Test Players & Test Readers of the Rule Book
Published by︓　Studio GG
URL︓　http://studiogg.doorblog.jp/
Mail︓　nan_an_2002@yahoo.co.jp
Twitter: @nannann2002