A game by Aske Christiansen
Illustrated by Apolline Etienne
Four Spirits of Nature - Winter, 
Spring, Summer and Autumn 
- have been called to rescue 
the Sacred Tree of the Forest 
facing the devastating flames 
of Onibi. All of them want to 
become a legend by saving 
their home and, this way, 
receiving the honorable title of 
Grand Protector... If they 
want to win this battle 
against the terrible Onibi, 
they will have to act! Plant 
protective trees, fend off the 
relentless flames, or awaken 
Sanki, the Guardian of the 
Forest... What will be the 
best tactic?
Contents 
Setup 
Goal of the game 
Game turn 
The Guardian Animals' phase 
The Action phase 
End of the Game turn 
End of the Game 
Play as one of these four Spirits of Nature and try to 
become the new Grand Protector of the Forest.

The Guardian Animal cards
The Guardian Animals will provide you 
with elements that will help you to 
attract other Guardian Animals, plant 
Protective Trees, extinguish Fires, 
move forward on the Circle of Spirits, 
and/or collect Sacred Flowers.
Elements 
provided by 
the Guardian 
Animal, useful 
for carrying 
out Actions
There are three types of Guardian Animals: the solitary 
ones represented by a black Z coin, the gregarious ones 
represented by a white Y coin, and the neutral ones 
without a coin.
Cost of the Guardian Animal
Contents
14 starting Guardian Animal cards for each 
of the four Spirits of Nature
23 Fire Varan cards
23 Level 1 Guardian Animal cards
16 Level 2 Guardian Animal cards
12 Level 3 Guardian Animal cards

Your Forest is represented on 
your individual board, beginning 
with your starting Protective Tree 
in the center. During the game, 
you will be able to expand it by 
planting new Protective Trees.
The Circle of Spirits is composed 
of 12 rocks, each offering a Bonus.
39 Protective Tree tiles
Cost of the 
Protective Tree
Elements provided by 
the Protective Tree
1 Circle of Spirits central board 
4 Forest individual boards
4 Spirit of Nature standees
1 Sacred 
Tree standee
4 starting Protective Tree tiles
2 Protective Tree dispensers 
to put together
58 Fire tiles divided into 3 levels
20 Fragment
tiles
12 Victory tiles (3 per Spirit 
of Nature)
1 Guardian 
Animal board
1 Fire 
Varan board
Personal 
draw
Personal 
discard
Starting position of the Spirits of 
Nature standees depending on the 
number of players.

Setup
Place the Circle of Spirits on the table.
Take all components related to the Spirit of Nature you 
play with:
 
1 Forest individual board
 
1 Spirit of Nature standee
 
14 starting Guardian Animal cards
 
3 Victory tiles representing a Fire, a Sacred 
Flower and a Protective Tree respectively.
 
1 starting Protective Tree tile
Place your Forest board in front of you, 
then place your starting Protective Tree 
in the center. Place the three Victory 
tiles to the left of your Forest.
Randomly choose the first Spirit of Nature to 
play and give them the Sacred Tree standee. Then, place their standee 
on the Circle of Spirits on the rock with the white pawn in first position, the second 
Spirit on the rock with the white pawn in second position and so on, depending on 
whether you are 2, 3 or 4 players.
Shuffle and form a stack with your 14 starting Guardian Animal cards and place it, 
face down, to the right of your Forest. It is your personal draw.
Take all the remaining Guardian Animal cards and form 3 stacks, sorted by level. Level 
1 is represented by a white sun, level 2 by a yellow sun and level 3 by a red sun.
Shuffle each stack then place them, face down, on the corresponding space of the 
Guardian Animal board. Reveal the first 4 cards of each stack and form an adjacent 
row with them, they form the reserve of Guardian Animals.
Sort and stack the Fire tiles by value (2, 3 and 4) and place them on the corresponding 
spaces of this board, next to the stacks of Guardian Animal cards.
Place a Fire of value 2 in the center of the Circle of Spirits.
Place the Guardian Animal board next to the Circle of Spirits.

Place the Protective Tree dispensers next to the Circle of Spirits.
Arrange the Protective Tree tiles in ascending order of value in the dispensers, from 
left to right.
With 3 players, remove 1 Protective Tree for values 3/4/5
With 2 players, remove 2 Protective Trees for the values 3/4/5 and 1 Protective Tree 
for the values 6/7/8
Separately stack the Fragment tiles and the Fire Varan cards and place them on the 
corresponding spaces of this board.
The Setup must be done like on the following image.
Place the Fire Varan board next to the Circle of Spirits.

Goal of the game
In Living Forest you play a Spirit of Nature trying to save the Forest and its sacred Tree from 
Onibi's relentless attacks. You have one of three ways to do this:
Each turn, you call Guardian Animals which bring some Elements L, W, P, S and N to 
support you in your actions.
Game turn
Each Game turn includes 3 phases:
 
Guardian Animals
 
Action
 
End of Game turn
The Guardian Animals' phase
During this phase, all the Spirits of Nature play at the same time.
You draw and turn face up, one after the other, the Guardian Animal cards from your personal 
draw stack. You thus form the Guardian Animal Help Line.
You have already made up a team of 14 Guardian Animals, they are here 
with you and they are ready to help at any time.
It is when you want to draw a card, and not when your draw stack turns empty, that you 
make a new one.
If you want to draw a new Guardian Animal card to place in your Help Line, but your draw 
stack runs empty, then shuffle your discard stack to make a new draw stack.
Note: during this phase, you can consult your discard stack at any time.
 
by planting 12 different Protective Trees,
 
by collecting 12 Sacred Flowers to awaken Sanki the great Guardian of the Forest,
 
by extinguishing 12 Fires to permanently repel Onibi.

You can stop drawing cards whenever you want.
However, if you reveal a card showing a third solitary symbol Z, then you must stop drawing 
cards. This card closes your Help Line.
Note: it might be possible that you collect Fire Varan cards during 
the game, Onibi's servants; they work as solitary Guardian Animals 
but do not provide any Elements, only a solitary symbol Z.
The animals come from the four corners of the Forest, some of 
the far icy plains of the North, others from the deep rivers of the 
East, others from the warm tropical coasts of the South... All have 
precious powers but beware, some of them, proud and strong, do 
not like to meet other fellows...
Important: A gregarious symbol Y cancels a solitary 
symbol Z. It will therefore be possible to play more 
than 3 solitary Guardian Animals in the same turn, 
provided that you have already revealed one or more 
gregarious Guardian Animals. Note that only the 
symbol of the solitary Guardian Animal is canceled, 
you will take into account the Elements it brings in 
the next Action phase.
Guardian Animal Help Line

Whenever you want during this phase, you can discard a Fragment tile in order to, at choice:
 
Destroy a Fire Varan card that you have just drawn. You immediately put it back in its 
stack next to the Circle of Spirits.
 
Place a Guardian Animal card that you have just drawn back to your personal discard 
stack, regardless of its type.
Jon draws 5 Guardian Animal cards, the 5th is 
a Fire Varan which shows the third Z of his 
Help Line. During a previous turn, Jon acquired 
2 Fragment tiles, he decides to discard one to 
destroy this card, instantly canceling the Fire 
Varan's Z. He can then reveal more cards. 
The next one is a Y Guardian Animal card, the 
one right after is another Z Guardian Animal 
card. In this case, nothing happens because 
the two symbols cancel each other out. Jon 
decides to continue drawing cards and reveals 
a Z Guardian Animal card again. He discards 
his last Fragment tile which allows him to 
discard this last card into his personal discard 
stack. He decides to stop drawing cards.
After playing a Fragment, you can either stop or continue to draw.
Sanki, after having participated in the 
creation of this magnificent Forest, 
plunged into an eternal sleep in order to 
acquire Great Wisdom. He still wanted 
to leave behind fragments of his Magic 
that will help you, if you manage to get 
them back.
The Fragment tiles
Once all the Spirits of Nature have 
finished drawing their cards, the 
Guardian Animals phase ends and 
you can move on to the Action phase.

The Action phase
During this phase, the Spirits of Nature play in turn, starting with the Spirit of Nature 
possessing the Sacred Tree.
If your Help Line shows strictly 
less than three solitary symbols 
Z (not canceled by gregarious 
symbols Y), you can then perform 
2 different Actions.
The strength of an Action is determined by the number of corresponding Elements visible on 
the Guardian Animal cards in your Help Line and on your Forest individual board.
If your Help Line shows 
three solitary symbols Z 
(not canceled by gregarious 
symbols Y), you can then 
perform only 1 Action.
1 Action 
2 Actions
 Z – Y < 3
 Z – Y = 3
The Element N is not used to perform an action, it is a victory condition.
In his Help Line and on his 
Forest, Jon has a total of
7L
9W
1P
4S
to perform his two Actions.
Once you have performed the Action(s) of your choice, it is up to the next Spirit clockwise 
to take their Action(s), until all Spirits have played.

Jon counts a total of 7 L, he 
can thus take a card with a 
value of 7 (the groundhog) or 
two cards with a value of 4 (the 
cockatoo) and 3 (the hedgehog).
Jon has a total of 9 W and can 
then decide to extinguish two 
Fires of 4 in order to pick two 
tiles or one Fire of 4, one Fire 
of 3 and one Fire of 2 to pick 
three tiles.
The different Actions:
Take a Fragment tile
Take a Fragment tile and place it next to your Forest. It can be played in a 
following Guardian Animal Phase.
Attract one or more Guardian Animals
Add up the amount of L you have and take one or more Guardian Animal cards 
visible in the reserve of Guardian Animals, for a total cost equal to or lower than 
your number of L.
Place the card(s) on top of your personal draw stack, face down.
Extinguish the Fire
Add up the amount of W you have and pick one or more Fire tiles from the Circle 
of Spirits for a total cost equal to or lower than your number of W.
You can choose the Fire tiles you want to extinguish as long as their combined 
value does not exceed your number of W
Place the Fire tiles(s) next to your Forest, on their face without numbers.
Reminder: Having 12 Fires tiles is a way to win the game.
AL
AW
OR
HX

Move forward on the Circle of Spirits
Add up the number of S and move your Spirit of Nature standee clockwise on the 
Circle of Spirits by a number of rocks equal to or lower than your number of S.
If one or more Spirits of Nature are on a rock ahead of you, jump over them 
without counting their rocks and take one of their Victory tiles of your choice, 
whether it originally belongs to them or was taken from another Spirit of Nature.
Trigger the bonus of the arrival rock.
This is an additional Action, it is added and may be different from or identical 
to the other Actions you take in your turn. Note that you have to move forward 
at least one rock to trigger a bonus.
The Circle of Spirits requires courage 
and wisdom to move forward.
AS
Jon has a total of 4 S, moves 
forward 4 unoccupied spaces 
on the Circle of Spirits and 
triggers the bonus Take a 
Fragment tile Action. During 
that move, he jumps over 
Philip and Donna, taking one 
Victory tile of his choice from 
each of them.

Planting a Protective Tree in a strategic space of your Forest will give you bonuses.
A planted Protective Tree instantly and permanently gives you its effect. You 
can therefore take it into account for your second Action and during following 
Game turns.
These Protective Trees, once planted in your Forest, 
permanently provide a certain number of Elements.
If your Help Line allows you to perform 2 Actions, this Protective Tree allows 
you to perform the same Action twice, rather than 2 different Actions.
Note: Having 12 different Protective Tree is a way to win the game.
Together, Protective Trees form an impenetrable barrier, even from Onibi's 
most powerful flames.
Add up the amount of P and take one, and only one, Protective Tree for a total 
cost equal to or lower than your number of P.
Place it on your Forest, on a space adjacent to a Protective Tree already planted. 
Diagonal spaces do not count.
Plant one and only one Protective Tree
AP

Bonus: Complete a row or a column
Completing particular rows or columns in your 
Forest instantly triggers a permanent bonus 
of Element: 1W, 1L, 1 S or 2N depending 
on the row or column. You can take it into 
account for your second Action and in following 
Game turns.
A strong row of Protective Trees will strengthen 
your Forest.
Bonus: Plant a Protective Tree in a corner
Planting a Protective Tree in one of the corners of your Forest triggers an immediate 
bonus Action.
 
Triggers an additional Attract 
one or more Guardian Animals 
Action with a bonus of +3 L.
 
ӵ Triggers an additional 
Extinguish fire Action with 
a bonus of +2 W.
 
ӵ Allows you to pick up 
2 Fragment tiles.
These are additional Actions, they are added and may be different from or identical to the 
other Actions you take in your turn.
Reaching the four furthest points of your Forest shows your 
determination and ability to protect the Sacred Tree. A precious help 
is given to you.
 
ӵ Allows you to pick up 
2 Fragment tiles.

2. Onibi is attacking the Sacred Tree!
Add as many Fires of value 2 to the center of the Circle of Spirits 
as there are Level 1 Guardian Animal cards taken this turn.
Add as many Fires of value 3 to the center of the Circle of Spirits 
as there are Level 2 Guardian Animal cards taken this turn.
Add as many Fires of value 4 to the center of the Circle of 
Spirits as there are Level 3 Guardian Animal cards taken 
this turn.
There can never be more than 7 Fires in the center of the 
Circle of Spirits.
If there are no more Fire 
tiles in the Circle of Spirits 
after Onibi's attack, add a 
Fire tile of value 2, even if 
no Guardian Animals has 
been taken.
End of the Game turn
1. Onibi is attacking you!
If some Fire tiles remain at the center of the 
Circle of Spirits, add up their values. Then, 
each Spirit of Nature adds up their value in W.
If this value in W is strictly lower than the 
strength of the Fire, add as many Fire Varan 
cards to your discard stack as there are Fire 
tiles at the center of the Circle of Spirits.
At the end of the turn there 
are 3 Fire tiles of values 2, 
3 and 4: Onibi's Firepower is 
therefore 9. Jon counts his W 
and he has a total of 8 which 
means he cannot resist the 
flames, he has to add 3 Fire 
Varan cards on top of his 
discard stack.
During this turn four cards 
have been taken (one of 
level 1, one of level 2 and 
2 of level 3). You therefore 
have to add to the center 
of the Circle of Spirits the 
four corresponding Fires, 
one of value 2, one of value 
3 and two of value 4.
Note: If there are not enough Fire Varans 
available compared to the number of Fires 
remaining on the Circle of Spirits, evenly 
distribute them among the Spirits of Nature 
concerned, in turn order. If there are no more 
Fire Varan available, nothing happens.

3. The arrival of new Guardian Animals
Refill the Guardian Animal reserve by revealing as many new 
cards per level as there were cards taken this turn.
The Guardian Animals of the Forest have heard your call, they are 
gathering close to the Circle of Spirits founded millennia ago by 
Sanki. They are standing by to help if you ask.
5. Giving the Sacred Tree
Give the Sacred Tree to the next Spirit of Nature clockwise.
"The power of the Sacred Tree represents balance. It will always 
be shared equitably." - Sanki
4. The Return of Guardian Animals
Move all the Guardian 
Animal cards from 
your Help Line to your 
personal discard stack.
The next game turn can begin.
End of the Game
The game stops at the end of a complete Action phase when one of the Spirit of Nature 
has managed to collect at least either:
The Spirit ending the game wins. If several Spirits of Nature complete one of the three victory 
conditions at the end of a turn, then they add up the values of all three victory conditions. 
The Spirit of Nature with the highest total wins.
 
12 different Protective Trees. Count all the different Trees placed on your 
individual Forest board, including the starting Tree, as well as all the Victory Tree 
tiles if you have any.
 
12 Fires. Count the number of tiles you have won, not their value, as well as 
all the Fire Victory tiles if you have any.
 
12 Sacred Flowers. Count the number of Flowers visible on your Help Line, 
on your Forest individual board and on the Flower Victory tiles if you have any.

Philip ends the game with 12 Protective 
Trees, Donna with 13 Fires and Alice 
with 13 Sacred Flowers. To determine 
the winner you have to add up the 
value of the three victory conditions 
for each one of them. Alice wins with 
23 points against 20 points for Donna 
and 16 points for Philip.
Illustrator
Apolline Etienne
Publisher
Ludonaute
www.ludonaute.fr
contact@ludonaute.fr
Copyright 2021 Ludonaute – All rights reserved
Aske Christiansen
Game Designer
Credits
Watch the Rules in video
Philip
Donna
Alice