Contents
•	 Development board
•	 101 City cards
•	 20 Borough cards
•	 4 Score trackers
•	 48 Coin tokens
•	 12 Loan tokens 
•	 44 Poverty tokens 
 
Overview
In London you will take the role of prominent architects, tasked with rebuilding the city after the 
Great Fire and guiding the development of the city up to the dawn of the 20th century. You must 
balance your vision, your finances, and the needs of the city’s inhabitants if you are to be remembered 
as an icon of London. 
The game has four core elements: buildings, money, land and poverty. Each of these elements 
influences the others, as well as affecting your prestige. On your turn you will develop the city for 
your future benefit; buy land; gather resources; or run your part of the city, taking advantage of the 
area you have developed. Money will affect your ability to do these things, but is not the goal itself. 
Only the architect with the most prestige will be remembered in the end. 
CITY CARDS
These cards represent the guilds, businesses and buildings you will develop in 
your section of the city. Knowing how to make best use of your city cards is key 
to winning the game. Each card has a cost to play, and a benefit to be gained from 
playing it – usually on a later turn than when it is played. London has an unusual 
mechanic for these cards – first you will build your city, playing cards to your 
building area; then you will run your city, activating as many of your previously played as you wish.
Each card has a basic type, denoted by its colour. Brown cards relate to economic activity, blue 
cards reflect science and culture and pink cards relate to politics. There are also a number of grey 
cards, paupers, which will be a continual source of poverty unless you can find work for them. The 
four types of cards are also differentiated by the roundel in the bottom corners of each card. 
City cards have two main benefits to you – the prestige they grant you at the end of the game, 
and/or the effect which happens when you run your city. Some cards may also have an ongoing 
effect, which is active whenever the card is showing. If a card has an ongoing effect, it will be 
described above the card’s artwork, rather than below it.
30 x 1 Poverty
10 x 5 Poverty
4 x 15 Poverty

ACTION CARDS
There are four cards in the city deck which are played directly 
from your hand and do not require you to spend another card 
to play them. These cards contains the word ‘action’ in their 
ongoing ability box and do not have an activated ability box. 
1.	
Card name
2.	
The set to which this card belongs (A, B or C). 
3.	
Some cards have an additional cost, which must be 
paid when they are added to your display.
4.	
The main area of the card is its activated ability – the 
benefit you get when you run your city.
5.	
The left roundel indicates the activation cost, which 
must be paid in order to activate the card. This will 
require you to spend money or discard a card from 
your hand.
6.	
The prestige this card grants at the end of the game.
7.	
The right roundel indicates whether or not the card 
flips face-down after it is activated.
8.	
Some cards have an ongoing ability, which comes 
into effect as soon as you add the card to your display.
CARD SYMBOLS
The city and borough cards contain 
a number of symbols, which are 
detailed here. These either gain or 
lose resources, or are an effect of 
activating your city cards when you 
run your city.
Gain prestige immediately
Gain one poverty
Gain prestige at the end of the game
Alleviate one poverty
Spend money
Spend an additional card to activate
Gain money
Flip this card after activation

BOROUGH CARDS
The larger cards represent an opportunity to purchase land in one 
of 20 boroughs in London. Land is expensive, but highly valuable. 
Every time you buy a piece of land it will immediately grant 
you prestige; alleviate poverty; and open up new opportunities, 
allowing you to draw cards. Some boroughs may also have an ongoing ability, or an effect when you 
run your city.
Each card also has a relationship to the River Thames. Every card is either north or south of the river, 
while some border it. Generally cards in north London are worth more prestige, while cards in south 
London alleviate more poverty.
Every time you buy a new borough card 
it replaces your most recent borough. 
You must overlay the cards so that the 
left-hand edge denoting the location of 
the old borough is still visible. The card 
may still generate prestige through city 
card effects, but only the abilities of 
your top card will ever be in play.
1.	
Borough name
2.	
The location of this borough (north or south). River-adjacent and 
non-river-adjacent boroughs have different versions of this symbol. 
3.	
Some boroughs have an optional ability. Each optional ability 
specifies when it can be used.
4.	
The cost to buy this borough.
5.	
Each borough grants an immediate benefit listed here. This 
borough allows you to draw 2 cards, gain 2 prestige immediately 
and lose 1 poverty.
6.	
Some boroughs have an active ability, which must happen every 
time you run your city. These can be positive or negative – in this 
case you will gain 2 poverty every time you run your city while 
Wandsworth is your topmost borough card.
Non-river-adjacent	 	
River-adjacent

LOANS
If you are ever required to pay a cost you cannot afford, you must 
take a loan, though you may choose to take one at any point. For 
each loan you take, you receive £10 from the supply and a loan token. Every £10 worth of loans 
you have taken will generate poverty every time you run your city. 
To get rid of a £10 loan, you must pay £15 at the start of your turn. Return the loan and the 
money to the supply. At the end of the game you must repay each loan you have taken, if you can. 
You lose seven prestige for each loan you cannot repay.
THE DEVELOPMENT BOARD
The development board contains two rows for discarded city cards. These rows will be empty at the 
start of the game but will fill up as players develop their cities. With two players, only the first three 
spaces of each row are available for use. With three players the first four spaces are available, 
and with four players all five spaces are available for use.
The board also contains a point tracker to measure prestige, and a summary of how poverty will 
affect prestige at the end of the game.
DRAWING AND DISCARDING CARDS 
Whenever you draw one or more city cards you may either take any card on the development board 
or the top card of the city deck. If you are drawing multiple cards, you may choose to draw from a 
combination of the two, and may draw cards one at a time before deciding where to draw from next.
Whenever you discard a card you must place it onto an available space in the top row of the 
development board (some spaces are only available if playing with three or four players). If there are 
no available spaces in the top row, you may place them in the bottom row. 
If you have to discard a card and the entire board is full, remove all cards on the bottom row from 
the game. Move all cards in the top row to the bottom row, and then continue to discard as normal.
1-2
-1
-2
-5
-7
-9
-11
-13
-15
each 
point 
over 10
PRESTIGE 
LOST 
DUE TO 
POVERTY

Setup
Place the board in the middle of the table. Each player chooses a score tracker and places it on the 
‘0’ space on the board. Place the coin, poverty and loan tokens next to the board as a supply. Each 
player takes £5 and places it in front of them as part of their building display. The items in your 
building display are public information and may not be kept secret. This includes coins, loans, 
poverty tokens, boroughs and building stacks – however covered cards or face-down cards within 
those stacks remain hidden until the end of the game.
Separate the building cards into three decks, based on the letter printed above the title of the 
card – A, B or C. Shuffle each deck separately, then place the C deck face-down. Place the B deck 
face-down on top of C, and finally the A deck face-down on top of B, creating the city deck. Deal 
each player 6 cards from the deck.
Find the three starter boroughs with a different-coloured name (City, Westminster, and 
Southwark & Bermondsey) and place them face-up beside the board. Shuffle the rest of the 
borough cards, and place them face-down to form the borough deck. The player who set the game 
up becomes the first player. 

How to Play
The object of the game is to have the most prestige when the city cards run out. During the game 
players will take turns in clockwise order. During your turn you must first draw one city card, then 
you must take one of the following actions: 
1) Develop your city, 2) Buy land, 3) Run your city or 4) Draw three more city cards.
Finally, if you have more than nine cards in your hand you must discard any excess cards at the 
end of your turn.
DEVELOPING YOUR CITY
When you develop your city you play one or more city cards from your hand to the table in front of 
you, one at a time. These cards are added to your building display face-up. 
To add a card to your building display, you must first discard a card of the same colour from 
your hand. You must also pay the additional cost of the card, if it has one. If you cannot afford 
the additional cost, and do not wish to take a loan, you may not play that card. If you have no cards 
in hand that you can legally play you may not take the develop city action.
When you add a card to your building display, you may either place it on top of another face-up 
or face-down city card in the display, or on its own. Each pile of cards is called a stack. A card cannot 
be placed on top of another card that was placed in the same turn.
If a card has an ongoing ability it comes into effect as soon as it is placed in the building display, 
and ceases to be in effect as soon as the card is flipped face-down or is covered by another card. 
This means that an ongoing ability may be used in the same turn that the card is played. Any other 
abilities will only come into play when you run your city on a later turn.
Note: action cards will have a separate ability which does not relate to your building display. 
Those cards can still only be played when you choose the develop action.
EXAMPLE OF DEVELOPMENT
You have these four cards in hand when you choose to develop. With your blue 
cards you could discard Vauxhall Gardens to build a Hospital. As the Hospital 
has an additional cost of £2, you would have to pay that money to the supply. 
You could also discard the Hospital to build the Gardens, saving your money. 
With your brown cards you could discard the Huguenots to play the Vintners, 
or play the Huguenots for its action ability, keeping the Vintners and drawing 
two new cards. Perhaps that will give you more options? Any cards you discard 
will become available for the other players, so choose carefully. 

BUYING LAND
When you buy land you must choose a borough card from the three face-up cards in the middle of 
the table, pay its cost and add it to your building display. If you already own one or more borough 
cards you must place the new one on top of it so that only the title of the previous card is visible. 
Replace the borough card you have just bought with a new one from the deck.
As soon as you have purchased a borough you gain the immediate benefit directly below the 
cost – drawing cards, moving your prestige tracker up a number of spaces and removing the number 
of poverty indicated. If you have fewer poverty tokens than the borough removes, simply remove all 
your current poverty. 
If the borough card has an ongoing ability it is immediately available as soon as it added to 
your display. As soon as another borough is placed on top of it, it is no longer available.
PAUPERS 
There are eleven pauper cards in the deck. These cards cannot be added to a building display or 
discarded to play a card (unless a city or borough card ability explicitly says otherwise). They can 
only be discarded through card abilities, in order to activate cards already in your city (see below), or 
when you end your turn over the hand limit of nine cards.
EXAMPLE OF BUYING LAND
These three boroughs are available when you choose to buy land. You 
cannot afford Hammersmith and do not wish to take a loan, so must 
decide between the others. Would you prefer Lewisham’s effective 
poverty removal or Southwark & Bermondsey’s powerful ability? Either 
way, you will cover up your existing borough, leaving only the left-hand 
column visible. 

RUNNING YOUR CITY
When you run your city, you will activate city cards in your building display, one at a time, in any 
order. Once you have activated as many cards as you wish, you will accumulate poverty. Activating a 
face-up card in your display has three steps:
1.	Pay the activation cost, if there is one. The cost will either be an amount of coin paid to the 
supply or one card of any colour discarded from your hand. If you can’t pay the cost you may 
not activate the card.
2.	Carry out the activation effect in full. In any order, resolve any text effects and symbols. If 
you do not have any poverty at this moment, you do not benefit from any ‘remove poverty’ 
symbols.
3.	If the card has a flip symbol, flip it face-down. The stack of cards remains, but that card can 
no longer be activated.
Only face-up cards may be activated, and each card may only be activated once during the same 
turn. If your topmost borough card has an activation effect it must be activated during this 
action. This can be before or after any of the cards in the building display. A borough card is never 
flipped.
Once you have finished activating cards in your building display, you receive a number of poverty 
tokens from the supply. The player receives one poverty token for each: 
•	 Stack in your building display (whether it was activated or not) 
•	 £10 of loans in your building display
•	 Card in your hand
DRAWING THREE CARDS
When you take this action, you must draw exactly three cards. As always, you may draw in any 
combination from the deck or the development board. If there are fewer than three cards available, 
simply take all the remaining cards.

EXAMPLE OF RUNNING YOUR CITY - PART 1
This is your building display when you decide to run your city. You can 
activate the face-up city cards in any order you wish. Your hospital gives you 
some good flexibility here, allowing you to re-use another city card on a later 
turn. As you already have some money, perhaps prestige is more important. 
To activate the West India Docks you must spend a card. You discard a 
pauper from your hand, then gain £7 before flipping the Docks. Next you 
activate the Town Houses, giving you two immediate prestige (one for each 
face-up blue city card). This card would normally flip, but you choose to use 
your Hospital’s ability, and flip that card instead. You cannot use the Town 
Houses again this turn, but as it is still face-up you may use it again on a later 
turn. Now you activate your Steamboats. Two of your boroughs border the 
river, as indicated on the left-most side of the borough cards, so you gain £4 
and flip the Steamboats. Finally you must take Southwark & Bermondsey’s 
ongoing ability, and add one poverty.
Game End
If the city deck is empty at the end of any player’s turn, each other player takes one final turn. 
Once these turns have been taken, the game ends. To calculate your final score, take the following 
steps in order as a group (if everyone is familiar with the game, this can be done individually):
1.	Take one poverty token for each card left in your hand, and remove those cards from the game.
2.	Count up the total end of game prestige of all the city cards in your display, including cards 
which are face-down or which have been built over. Move your score tracker up a number of 
spaces equal to this value.
3.	Pay back as many loans as possible, paying £15 for each £10 loan repaid.
4.	Move your score tracker up one space for each full £3 remaining in your display.

EXAMPLE OF RUNNING YOUR CITY - PART 2
This is your building display after you have run your city. You are now flush 
with cash, but you cannot repay your loan until the start of your next turn. 
You will gain poverty as follows: one for each stack in your display (four), 
one for the loan token, and one for each card in hand (two), for a total of 
seven. Added to your existing four you now have eleven poverty. This is 
getting really out of hand! Perhaps you should do something about that 
on a later turn…
5.	Move your score tracker down seven spaces for each unpaid loan. 
6.	Compare your total poverty tokens. The player with the fewest poverty tokens returns all of 
them to the supply. All other players return that same number of tokens to the supply.
7.	Check the poverty table on the development board, and move your score tracker down the 
number of spaces indicated.
The player with the most prestige wins. If there is a tie, the tied player with the least poverty 
wins. If there is still a tie, the tied player with the most borough cards wins. If there is still a tie, the 
tied player with the city card worth the most prestige wins. 

First published in Great Britain in 2017 by Osprey Games, an imprint of Osprey Publishing Ltd 
c/o Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 
PO Box 883, Oxford, OX1 9PL, UK
Or
c/o Bloomsbury Publishing Inc. 
1385 Broadway, 5th Floor, New York, NY 10018
Osprey Publishing, part of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
OSPREY and OSPREY GAMES are trademarks of Osprey Publishing, a division of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc.
© 2017 Martin Wallace
This edition © 2017 Osprey Publishing Ltd.
All rights reserved.
www.ospreygames.co.uk
For more information or replacement parts, email info@ospreygames.co.uk
17 18 19 20 21 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Osprey Publishing supports the Woodland Trust, the UK’s leading woodland conservation charity. 
Between 2014 and 2018 our donations are being spent on their Centenary Woods project in the UK.
Gain prestige immediately
Gain one poverty
Gain prestige at the end of the game
Alleviate one poverty
Spend money
Spend an additional card to activate
Gain money
Flip this card after activation
-1
1-2
-2
-5
-7
-9
-11
-13
-15
each 
point 
over 10
Card Symbols
Prestige lost due to Poverty