1 21 double-sided level sheets showing 42 game levels as follows:
2 5 screens (transparent sheets).
3 5 base boards (with a white 
front and colored rear).
4 5 erasable marker pens 
with eraser caps.
5 1 game console 
(box base and plastic insert).
6 1 score track running around the 
game console inside the game box.
7 1 console base (card board to 
be placed on the console).
8 1 sand timer (30 seconds).
9 5 score tokens, to record 
points on the score track.
10 5 character tokens, to 
identify the players.
11 28 Bonus tokens (Pranks and 
Power-Ups): 5 Broom, 8 Banana, 
5 Shield, 5 Mosquito and 5 XP tokens.
12 24 Penalty tokens: 4 Cyclops, 
5 Cramp, 5 Switch, 5 Claw and 
5 Vortex tokens.
 Jungle World (World 1) 
 Ice World (World 2) 
 Desert World (World 3) 
 Temple World (World 4) 
 Magma World (World 5) 
 Mechanical World (World 6) 
 Epic World (World 7) 
 4 levels.
 2 special stages.
Game Components
In the weird and wonderful world of Arkadia, old king Fedoor has no heir. A grand tournament 
is being organized, with the throne going to the kingdom’s ﬁnest adventurer. Competing 
champions will travel through seven amazing worlds inhabited by the Loonies: crazy creatures 
that like nothing better than a good ﬁght… To win the crown, however, champions will also 
have to avoid their rivals’ sneaky tricks!
Laurent Escofﬁer
David Franck

Game Principle
Setup
Each player takes a Character token 1 and 
matching score token 2 , a marker pen 3 and 
a screen 4 . The screen should be placed on a 
base board 5 (with the white side visible). 
Place the console base 6 on the game 
console 7 . Stack the score tokens, beginning 
with the youngest player’s token and ending 
with oldest player’s token. Set up the game 
console in the middle of the play area, the same 
distance from all the players. Place the timer 8 
next to the game console, where it can be seen by 
all players. Randomly stack the Bonus tokens 9 
(face down) and place the pile in the play area. Do 
the same with the Penalty tokens 10 .
The ﬁrst pile is called the Bonus pile, the second 
one is called the Penalty pile.
Choose one of the seven Worlds 11 (World 1 
to 7) and place that World’s ﬁrst level (level 1) on 
the game console.
d 
e 
y 
d 
n 
WORLD 1
level 1
23/06/14
15:23
Each player is a champion attempting to gain as many Experience Points 
as possible while travelling through one of Arkadia’s 7 Worlds. Each World 
(except the seventh one) is divided into 6 levels, with a fearsome Boss 
defending the ﬁnal level.
Each level 1 has missions that the players attempt to accomplish in a limited 
time, by drawing what is required by the Challenge Box 2 on their screens 3
4 . 
When the allotted time has elapsed, each player places their screen over the 
level sheet 5 , checks whether or not their drawings are valid, records any 
Experience Points earned and where appropriate collects Bonus or Penalty 
tokens. But watch out for Traps! 
The player with the most Experience Points when all levels in the World have 
been played is declared the winner.
The seven Worlds are numbered in ascending order of difﬁculty. For your ﬁrst game, we recommend 
beginning with World 1 and playing the other Worlds in order in subsequent games.

Gameplay Phases
Before beginning the game, you must select the play mode: normal or 
arcade (more difﬁcult). The following rules apply to normal mode (for arcade 
mode refer to page 8).
The players observe the chosen level and familiarize themselves with the 
mission.
 Phase 1: level resolution
Each level is resolved in three steps:
Play Pranks (Broom, Banana and Mosquito)
 
Each player may choose to play any or all of their Prank 
tokens, allocating them to one or more opponents. The 
player with the highest score allocates their tokens 
ﬁrst. The other players then do likewise, in descending 
score order.
Mission
During this phase, the effects 
of any Penalty tokens are 
activated automatically. 
Flip the sand timer. All players may begin 
drawing. They have 30 seconds to draw the 
forms required for the mission on their screen.
When the timer ends, all players must stop 
drawing. Scores are then determined.
 Note: players may erase any or all of their drawing provided the allotted 
time has not elapsed.
Scoring
The player with the highest score places their screen on top of the current level 
sheet and checks whether their drawings are valid. Valid drawings are rewarded 
with Experience Points.
The other players then do likewise, in descending score order.
 Note: when scoring the ﬁrst level, the player whose token is on the top of 
the pile scores their level ﬁrst, followed by the other players in order.
 Phase 2: next level
If any Bonus or Penalty tokens were played during the level, place them 
face down under the Bonus and Penalty Piles.
Then remove the current level from the game console and replace it with 
the next level. The new level should be rotated clockwise by a quarter-turn 
relative to the orientation of the previous level.
ORIENTATION OF THE PREVIOUS LEVEL
ORIENTATION OF THE NEXT LEVEL
90°
 Note: each player produces their drawings based on their view of the level, 
with no need to rotate their screen when placing it on the level sheet.
 Phase 3: end of the Game
Play continues in the same way for all levels in the chosen World. When the 
ﬁnal level has been played, including the confrontation with the Boss, the 
player with the most Experience Points is declared the winner.

Drawings
 Drawing types 
Players will produce three different types of drawing in the course of 
their missions:
Lines, for Link and 
Move missions.
Closed contours, 
for Ring missions.
Dots, for Mark 
missions.
 Validity of drawings 
To be valid, a drawing must comply with three rules:
 Drawings must never touch or branch. If they do, the drawing(s) 
concerned are not valid. Only valid drawings are scored.
Invalid drawings
 A player’s drawings are all declared invalid if the screen contains a type 
of drawing not speciﬁed in the Mission Box. That player will not earn any 
Experience Points for the level.
 The maximum number of drawings speciﬁed in the Mission Box must 
not be exceeded. Exceeding this limit invalidates all of a player’s drawings. 
That player will not earn any Experience Points for the level.
Challenge Box
The bottom of each level sheet contains the Challenge Box, which describes 
the objectives for the level: the main mission and any side quests.
MISSION BOX
light background
QUEST BOX
dark background
CHALLENGE BOX
MISSION BOX contents:
1 This number shows how many times a player may perform the mission.
2 The mission icon shows the mission type for the level.
 Note: certain levels require players to perform more than one type 
of mission.
3 The Experience Points block shows the number of Experience Points 
gained each time the mission is performed successfully.
4 The Mission Target and related 5 Mission Item indicate which Items are 
needed in order to accomplish the mission.
QUEST BOX contents:
1 The Quest Target and related 2 Quest Item show which Items to touch 
, 
and which Items (or Traps) must be avoided 
 .
3 The Experience Points block shows the number of Experience Points 
gained or lost whenever a valid drawing touches the relevant Quest Item.
 Note: the Mission Box and Quest Box are totally independent. This 
means that a player can still win or lose quest points even if 
they did not accomplish a mission.

 
 Four mission types
Link: players must draw a line on their screens that will 
link the two Items present in the two Mission Targets 
(
 or 
).
A Link mission is considered to be successfully accomplished if the line 
begins inside the Item located in the ﬁrst Mission Target and ends inside the 
Item located in the second Mission Target.
 On level 2.6, the objective of one of the missions 
is to link all three stalactites ( 3x
) to the 
penguins’ ship.
Move: players must draw a line on their screens. Move mission can 
only be successful if the line begins inside the Mission Item. The line 
may end anywhere on the level without affecting the result.
On level 1.4, the mission objective is to move through 
the level, beginning in the start zone.
Ring: players must draw a ring around each Mission Item on 
their screens.
For a Ring mission to be successful, each closed contour (regardless of 
its shape) must enclose the exact number of Items speciﬁed in the Mission 
Target. Ringed items must not overlap the contour of the ring.
5x
 
On level 2.2, the mission objective is to draw a ring around 
each of the 5 crates of ﬁsh ( 5x
). 
Mark: players must draw a dot on their screens.
For a Mark mission to be successful, each dot must touch 
the required Mission Item.
4x
On level 1.3, the mission objective is to 
draw dots touching the priest and the three 
warriors.
30 Seconds icon: the «30 Seconds» mission icon 
appears on some levels. In such cases, players may 
observe the level for 30 seconds (measured by the 
sand timer). When the allotted time has elapsed, turn 
over the level sheet (players may not look at it again). Start the timer 
again. The players must then draw the requested mission on their 
screens from memory. Replace the level sheet in its original position 
on the game console in order to determine players’ scores.
 Winning and losing Experience Points
 Points earned via the Mission Box
Each successful mission scores the number of Experience Points shown in the 
related block.
The Mission Target will be shown in light green 
 if the required Item only 
appears in the level once. The Mission Target will be shown in dark green 
 
if the Item appears multiple times. 
When a player is able to accomplish a mission more than once (for example: 
), a different Item (shown in a dark green Mission Target 
) must be used 
for each mission.
Example :
Lines 1 and 2 score a 
total of 2 points, not 4, 
because both lines link 
to the same stalactite.
Line 3 scores 2 points.
Two out of the three 
possible Link missions 
were successfully 
accomplished, earning 
the player 4 points.
2x
level 6
 Points earned or lost via the Quest Box
Touching an Item located inside a green Quest Target 
 scores the related 
number of Experience Points. These points may only be earned once per 
Item, even if it is touched more than once by one or more valid drawings. 
Touching a Trap 
 in a red Quest Target causes the player to lose the 
related number of Experience Points each time the Trap is touched by a 
different valid drawing.

If a valid drawing touches a Quest Item associated with a Skull, the 
player scores NO Experience Points for the whole level.
 Calculating the score
A player’s score is calculated by totaling the Experience Points earned 
 
and/or lost 
 via the Mission Box and the Quest Box.
After calculating the number of Experience Points earned, the player moves 
their score token forward the appropriate number of spaces on the score 
track. If a player’s score token would land on a space already occupied by 
another player’s score token, move it to the next free space instead.
A player does not lose points on the score track if they earn a negative 
number of Experience Points on a level. Their score token remains where it is.
 Note: only valid drawings are scored (see page 4 – Validity of drawings).
Example : 
Points earned via
the Mission Box
Points earned via
the Quest Box
Points lost via the 
Quest Box
TOTAL
level 1
The player moves their score token forward 4 spaces on the score track.
Item Notes
 Neutral Items
5x
level 2
Neutral Items
Neutral 
Items 
have 
no 
effect 
on 
Experience Point scores when touched:
1 The level details box.
2 Scenery Items not located in a 
Mission or Quest Target.
3 The Challenge Box.
 Item Outlines
Sometimes, only part of a Mission or Quest Item may appear inside the 
corresponding Target area. Nevertheless, the whole Item is considered 
when performing a mission or quest.
Item outlines
 Note: an Item’s shadow is not part of the Item and should be ignored 
when determining scores.
 Item Families
Some Quest Items have graphic details 
that give them a different visual appearance. 
However, when determining Experience Points, 
all Items belonging to a particular family are 
treated as identical, even if they are not all 
shown in a Quest Target.
k.
when determining
Ite
So
that
How
all 
trea
sho

Bonus and Penalty tokens
On some levels, players can obtain Bonus and Penalty tokens.
 Awarding Bonus and Penalty tokens
During the scoring phase, whenever a Bonus icon 
 is touched by a 
valid drawing, the player wins a Bonus token. Similarly, whenever a Penalty 
icon 
 is touched by a drawing – regardless whether the drawing is 
valid or invalid – the player collects a Penalty token.
When a player is awarded a Bonus or Penalty token, they draw the top 
token from the relevant pile and place it face up in front of them. If a player 
draws two or more identical Penalty tokens, they keep only one and place 
the others face down at the bottom of the Penalty pile.
 Note: collect only one Bonus or Penalty token per icon, even if the icon is 
touched multiple times by one or more drawings.
 Bonus tokens 
There are 5 different types of Bonus, organized in 2 categories: Pranks and 
Power-Ups.
 Pranks
Prank Bonuses are activated during the Play Pranks step (see page 3).
 Banana: a player who has a Banana may toss it onto the screen 
of an opponent of their choice. A player who has a Banana on 
their screen is not allowed to move the Banana or rotate their 
screen. During the current level, the Banana prevents the 
affected player from drawing at its location. 
 Note : bananas must be tossed onto the opponent’s screen, not placed 
on it precisely. If the Banana falls off the screen, the player may 
throw it again. 
 Mosquito: a player who has a Mosquito Bonus 
may give it to an opponent of their choice. 
The player receiving the Mosquito token 
must balance it on the end of their marker 
pen. The token must not fall off while they 
are drawing. If the token falls off, the player 
must balance it on their marker pen again 
before resuming drawing.
Broom: a player who has a Broom Bonus may pass one of 
their Penalty tokens to another player of their choice.
 Note: a Broom cannot be used to brush away a Prank token!
 Power-Ups
Power-Ups are activated during the Scoring step (see page 3).
 Shield: a player who has a Shield may choose to cancel a loss of 
Experience Points caused by a Trap 
. If a player touches more than 
one Trap, they may choose which Trap is ignored (even if the chosen 
Trap is touched by more than one drawing).
 
XP: a player who has an XP Bonus may discard it during the 
Scoring step and move their score token forward two additional 
spaces on the score track.
 Penalty tokens
During the next Mission step (see page 3), the effect of each player’s 
Penalty tokens is activated for the full duration of the timer.
There are 5 different types of Penalty.
 
 Cramp: a player affected by a Cramp must draw with their arm 
held totally straight, without bending their elbow.
 Note: players affected by a Cramp Penalty are not allowed to stand up.
 
 Claw: a player affected by a Claw Penalty must hold their marker 
pen in a pincer grip using their thumb and little ﬁnger only.
IDENTICAL ITEMS
WORLD 3
WORLD 1
WORLD 4
WORLD 6
WORLD 5
WORLD 7

Vortex: a player affected by a Vortex Penalty must ﬂip their 
base board onto its colored side and place their screen on it. 
The base board is returned to its normal (white) side after the 
next scoring step.
 
 Switch: a right-handed player affected by a Switch Penalty must 
draw with their left hand, and vice versa.
 
 Cyclops: a player affected by a Cyclops Penalty must close 
one eye.
 The effects of Penalty tokens and Prank tokens are 
cumulative.
Keys and Cages
Certain levels feature a Key and a Cage. If a valid line drawn by 
a player touches the Key AND the Cage, the player collects 
the number of Experience Points shown inside the Cage 
. 
 Note: there is no need to touch the Experience coins inside the Cage. 
Touching any part of the Cage is enough.
Buttons and Lasers
On levels 6.1, 6.5 and 7.2, certain areas are deﬁned by a barrier and a laser 
of the same color.
A player’s line may not enter such areas unless the Laser and barrier have 
been disabled. To do this, the player’s line must touch the relevant button 
before entering the area.
If a player’s line enters an area while the Laser and barrier are still active, 
the portion of the line beyond that point is erased before scoring the level.
Area
Laser
Button
Area
Button
Laser
Pixies and special stages
Observant players may ﬁnd cheeky Pixies hiding on some levels. 
During the scoring step, if a valid drawing touches a Pixie, the 
player concerned (but not the other players):
 Selects one of the two sides of the Special stage sheet and immediately 
plays that level before the next player determines their score.
 Positions their Character token on the designated spot 1 and ﬂicks it 
forward.
 The player does not score any Experience Points if their token leaves 
the level sheet. If any part of the token remains on the level sheet, the 
player determines their score.
SPECIAL STAGE
stage 1
SPECIAL STAGE
stage 2
MAN-EATING WALL
Stage 1
TREASURE BEACH
Stage 2
 Man-Eating Wall (Stage 1)
The player scores the number of Experience Points shown in the highest-value 
space touched by their Character token. If their Character token touches a space 
containing a man-eating plant 2 , the player does not score any points.
 Treasure Beach (Stage 2)
The player scores the number of Experience Points obtained by adding 
together the values of all the pots touched by their Character token.
Arcade mode
For each new level, before starting the timer, reveal the Penalty token on the 
top of the Penalty pile. This Penalty effect applies to all players. This Penalty 
token is known as the Common Penalty. Its effect applies cumulatively with 
any active individual Penalties. If a player has a Penalty token of the same type 
as the Common Penalty, they should immediately place their token under the 
Penalty pile.