GOAL OF THE GAME
Charles Chevallier and Laurent Escoffier
Naïade
In Looot, you need to gather resources and capture buildings to develop your fjord. Fill your longships and complete your construction sites in 
order to rack up your victory points. Store up the most riches, and you’ll be crowned Jarl of the Vikings!
Fjord: A valley carved by a glacier, which is now filled with seawater.
Jarl: A rank of nobility in medieval Scandinavia.
TERMS

Take as many Landscape boards as there are players and slot them together to make up the gameboard. 
Line up the sides of the boards so that they fit together.
Then place 2 Houses, 2 Watchtowers and 3 Castles on their corresponding spaces on the gameboard.
Place the Trophy board along one edge of the gameboard, and put the 5 Trophies on the Trophy board in ascending order.
Place the Ocean board along one edge of the gameboard. Put the 30 Longships into the bag, mix them and draw out 5. Place them on each 
of the Ocean spaces on the Ocean board, Longship side visible.
Create a reserve to the side of the gameboard for all the Resources (Axes, Wood, Sheep and Gold).
Choose a color and take your corresponding components: 1 Fjord, 13 Vikings and 3 Shields. Place the Shields in the spaces indicated on 
your Fjord.
Shuffle each type of Construction Site tile separately (Ports, Altars and Jarl Palaces) and give each player a random tile of each type. Place 
those tiles on the corresponding spaces on your Fjord, with the Resources and Buildings side visible.
The player who lives furthest north plays first.
4 Landscape boards (back/front)
12 Shields
1 Trophy board
43 Building tiles
(18 Houses, 16 Watchtowers, 9 Castles)
15 Construction Site tiles
(5 Ports, 5 Altars, 5 Jarl Palaces)
90 Resource tiles
(Axes, Wood, Sheep and Gold)
4 Fjord boards
1 Ocean board
1 Bag
(for holding and drawing Longships)
1 Scorepad
-5 /
52 Vikings
(13 of each color)
5 Trophies
30 Longships
(6 Wood, 6 Sheep, 4 Gold, 5 Houses, 5 Watchtowers, 4 Castles)
COMPONENTS
SETUP

CONSTRUCT THE GAMEBOARD
SETUP EXAMPLE FOR 3 PLAYERS

PLAYER TURN
PLACING A Viking (mandatory)
CAPTURING A BUILDING (conditional)
Each Resource type corresponds to a particular type of space. The Resources enable you to fill your Longships and complete your Construction 
Sites (see pages 6 & 7). Wood, Sheep and Gold earn you victory points. Axes allow you to claim a Trophy (see page 7).
Mandatory	
 Place a Viking
Conditional	
 Capture a Building
 Complete a Construction Site
Optional	
 Select a Longship
	
	
 Use a Shield
	
 	
 Claim a Trophy
Important: If you no longer have any empty spaces on your Fjord, you cannot take any more tiles.
The players take turns clockwise until they run out of Vikings.
On your turn, perform one or more of the following actions:
When placing a Viking, you must meet the two following conditions:
	
 You cannot place your Viking on a Resource space that is already 
occupied by another Viking;
	
 Your Viking must be adjacent to either another Viking (of any color) or 
a Longship.
Next, take a corresponding Resource tile from the reserve and place it on an empty 
space on your Fjord. This Resource can no longer be moved.
Then check whether you have captured a Building (see below).
If you have run out of Vikings, play passes to the next player.
Each type of Building has different capture rules (see page 5).
You can capture more than one Building (whether the same or different) when 
you place your Viking.
When you capture a Building, place it on an empty space on your Fjord. This 
Building can no longer be moved.
Note: When you capture a Building, if there are not 
enough tiles in the reserve (or none), you just take 
the remaining tiles. 
Astrid places her Viking on a Battlefield (adjacent to 
another Viking). She gains an Axe, which she places on 
her Fjord. Then Astrid checks whether she has captured a 
Building (see page 5).
Example
Battlefields and Axes
Mountains and Gold
Fields and Sheep
Forests and Wood
Starting values
ResourceS
HOW TO PLAY

There are 3 types of Building: Houses, Watchtowers and Castles.
The Buildings enable you to complete your construction sites (see page 7) and thereby earn victory points.
CAPTURING A Watchtower
When you connect two Watchtowers with Vikings of your color, take 
1 tile for each of those Watchtowers. You can capture a Watchtower 
more than once, but only if you connect it to a different 
Watchtower.
CAPTURING A Castle
When you chain together at least 4 Vikings of your color and at 
least 1 is adjacent to a Castle, you take a tile for that Castle. If you 
create a chain of at least 8 Vikings, you can take a second tile for 
that Castle, and if you create a chain of 12 Vikings, you can take a 
final tile for that Castle. You can only take an additional tile from a 
Castle if you complete a longer chain.
Houses
Watchtowers
Ragnar 
has 
connected 
two 
Watchtowers, so takes 1 tile for 
each of those Watchtowers.
Ragnar has now connected a different 
Watchtower 
1 to the Watchtower he 
previously connected 2 . He takes 1 tile 
for the newly-connected Watchtower 1 
and 1 tile for the Watchtower that he 
had connected previously 2 .
Castles
Starting values
Hilda has made a chain of 
4 Vikings, and 1 of those 
Vikings is adjacent to a 
Castle. She takes 1 Castle 
tile and places it on her 
Fjord.
Later in the game, Hilda 
extends her chain of 4 
Vikings into a chain of 8 
Vikings. This means she 
can take another tile for 
that Castle 1 . 
Since the Viking she has 
placed is also adjacent to 
a second Castle, she can 
also take 2 tiles for that 
Castle 2 : 1 tile for having 
a chain of 4 Vikings, and 
1 tile for a chain of 8 
Vikings. Hilda has gained 
a total of 3 Castle tiles 
with this move.
CAPTURING A House
When you place a Viking adjacent to a House, take 1 tile for that 
House.
Astrid’s Viking is adjacent to two Houses, so Astrid takes 1 tile for each 
House and places them on her Fjord.
BUILDINGS

1 The 3 Resources that must be adjacent to the Longship in order to fill that 
Longship.
2  The Resource or Building that gets a victory point bonus.
3 Its bonus value.
The exact number of Longships of each type is listed on the final page of this rulebook.
USING A Shield (optional)
Longships represent the trading of Resources. They increase the number of victory points you can earn from your Resources and Buildings. 
SELECTING A Longship (OPTIONAL)
Immediately place a second 
Viking, respecting the usual 
placement rules.
Place your Viking on a 
Resource space occupied 
by another Viking.
When you place your 
Viking, gain 2 of that 
Resource instead of 1.
At the end of your turn, you may select (only) 1 Longship.
Place it on an empty space on your Fjord. 
Draw another Longship from the bag and place it on the empty space on 
the Ocean board, with the Longship side visible.
When it is full, each Longship gives you a bonus for a particular type of 
Resource or Building. To fill a Longship, you must: 
	
 Have placed all 3 Resources indicated on that Longship in the 
spaces adjacent to it.
Once you have filled your Longship, turn it over to display the bonus it 
provides.
Important! At the end of the game, each Longship that you have 
not filled loses you 5 victory points.
Tip: You can use Resources to fill multiple Longships, so place them wisely to maximize your bonuses!
When you place a Viking, you may also use one or more of your Shields. 
Each Shield can only be used once, and will give you a particular advantage:
Once you have used a Shield, flip it to show that it has been used. It plays no further part in the game.
Note: You can place your Resources anywhere around the Longship.
Astrid gains a Sheep and places it adjacent to her Longship. Since she 
already has 1 Gold and 1 Wood adjacent to that Longship, she can fill it, 
and so flips that Longship to get its bonus. Each of her Sheep now gives 
her 2 additional victory points.
LongshipS

COMPLETING A CONSTRUCTION SITE (conditional)
CLAIMING A Trophy (optional)
There are 3 types of Construction Site in your Fjord. They give you victory points once completed. 
Port
When you gain Resources or Buildings, you can place them so that they 
complete one of your three Construction Sites.
Your Construction Sites work like Longships. To complete a Construction 
Site, you must: 
	
 Have placed all the Resources and Buildings indicated on that 
Construction Site in the spaces adjacent to it.
Once you have completed a Construction Site, flip it to show the side with 
the image.
Note: You can place your Resources and Buildings anywhere around the 
Construction Site.
At the end of your turn, you may claim a Trophy. 
Be aware that you can only claim one Trophy during the 
game. Each Trophy is unique. 
You’ll want to choose the right moment to claim a Trophy, 
but make sure you don’t wait too long!
To claim a Trophy, you must have at least as many Axes 
as shown on the Trophy. Their positions on your Fjord are 
unimportant.
Place the Trophy you have claimed on the corresponding 
space on your Fjord, with the side showing its victory points 
visible.
Altar
Jarl Palace
The Resources and Buildings 
required to complete that 
Construction Site
Victory points reminder
Number of Axes
Victory points
Olaf has just gained 1 Wood and 1 House. He decides to place them 
around his Construction Site. Since he has placed all the required 
Resources, he has now completed that Construction Site and so 
flips it to the image side.
At the end of his turn, Ragnar has 5 Axes on his Fjord 1 and wishes to take a Trophy. 
Since Astrid has already taken the Trophy for 5 Axes 2 , Ragnar will have to instead 
take the Trophy for 4 Axes, 3 which earns him 10 victory points at the end of the 
game.
Construction SiteS
Construction Site values

ZAL Les Garennes
F62930 WIMEREUX - France
www.gigamic.com
Charles Chevallier 
Laurent Escoffier
Naïade
Keep this information 
and address for future 
reference. 11-2023
® & © Gigamic 2023
WARNING! Not suitable 
for children under 3 years. 
Contains small parts which 
could be swallowed. 
GAME END
LongshipS
Exemple
Castle Longships
Gold Longships
Watchtower Longships
Wood Longships
House Longships
Hilda has 2 Castle bonuses (+3 and +4) and 3 Castles. She starts by 
adding the value of her bonuses to the starting value of the Castles 
(4), giving 11 (starting value of 4 + bonus of 3 + bonus of 4). Then she 
multiplies that value (11) by the number of Castles she has (3). 
This gives Hilda a total of 11 x 3 = 33 victory points for her Castles.
Sheep Longships
Once each player has played all their Vikings, it is time to crown the 
next Jarl.
Using the scorepad, calculate each player’s victory points as follows:
 Add the starting value of your Castles to any Castle bonuses you 
have obtained. Then multiply the result by the number of Castles 
you have.
 Calculate the points you have earned for your Watchtowers, Houses, 
Gold, Sheep and Wood in the same way.
 Add the victory points for your completed Construction Sites.
 Add the victory points for your Trophy, if you have claimed one.
 Finally, subtract 5 victory points for each Longship you did not fill.
The player with the most victory points wins the game and becomes the 
next Jarl of the Vikings. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the highest value Trophy wins.
Otherwise, the victory is shared.
Imported by: Hachette Boardgames USA
2363 James St 537
Syracuse, NY 13206, USA
Imported by: Hachette Boardgames 
UK ltd, Carmelite House, 50 Victoria 
Embankment, London EC4Y 0DZ