Welcome to Friedey’s, the Fast Food Restaurant
of the Damned. Our staff will serve you to the 
best of their ability . . . but they are all brainless
zombies.
Luckily, assembling combo meals isn’t too hard.
Oh . . . you’re applying for a job? Well, it’s sim-
ple. Whoever fills the best orders gets the most
points, and whoever gets the most points gets to be
Lord of the Fries. We’re not sure what that means,
but it sounds impressive.
Here’s your hat. Get to work!
COMPONENTS
This game includes 98 cards, 16 menus, two six-
sided dice (one black, one green), 28 tokens, a 30-
second timer, and these rules. You’ll also need a
way to keep score.
There are also two blank cards. They are not
used in the game; they are provided in case regular
cards get lost or damaged.
If you want extra Menu Cards, you may make
copies with our blessing. 
PLAYERS
Lord of the Fries can be played with three to
eight players. Be aware that with seven or eight
players, things do slow down, and if the cards fall
wrong, some players may not get much action on
any given shift . . . which is why you play more
than one shift.
SETUP
To start with, choose which menu you want to
play. You can work at eight different Friedey’s
restaurants. Each one has a different menu and
uses a different mix of cards. On the back of the
rules, you’ll find the “deck recipe” for each menu.
Note that each menu also adds a special rule.
Each menu actually has two recipes: one for 3-5
players, and one for 6-8 players. A smaller game
uses fewer cards.
Sort the cards by type, build the deck for the
menu you’re using, and put the extra cards and
menus back in the box. The deck recipes are
described two ways: both what cards are in each
deck, and what cards you remove from the full
deck to build the game deck . . . so sort the cards
whichever way works better for you.
We suggest a four- shift (round) game. If you
like, you can change menus after each shift, letting
the winner of the last shift pick the new menu.
Spread the menus around the table so everyone
can get one when he needs it. Choose a dealer for
the first shift, and give him the cards to deal out.
STARTING EACH SHIFT
Deal out all the cards. If they don’t come out
exactly even, that’s all right.
Make sure that everyone has a menu – or, if
there are more than four players, make sure every-
one can see a menu. Each restaurant has a differ-
ent color, to make it easier to be sure everyone has
the same kind of menu.
THE FIRST ORDER
The dealer determines the first order by either
calling it or rolling it, as described below. Do not
use the timer on the first order of the shift, because
everyone is still getting used to the menu and their
cards.
Calling means choosing the next order freely
from anywhere on the menu. If you call the order,
everyone who passes must hand a card to his left.
Rolling means that you roll the dice to deter-
mine the order. The green die determines the
menu section. The black die determines the exact
item in that section. See the box for an example.
If you roll the order, every player who passes
must hand a card to you. (If you pass on this order,
you will hand a card to yourself.) 
Once the Order is Determined . . .
The player on the dealer’s left has the first
chance to either fill the order or pass. If he passes,
the player on his left gets a chance, and so on. Only
if it gets all the way around the table will the deal-
er have a chance to fill his own order.
Passing means declining to fill the order. You
can choose to pass even if you have the right cards
to fill the order. You must give away one card, face
down, when you pass. If the order was called, pass
the card to your left. If it was rolled, pass the card
to the leader (the one who rolled the order).
Filling the Order means playing the required
ingredients from your hand. Put them on the table,
face up. When everyone has seen that you’ve filled
the order, stack the cards, still face up, in front of
you. This is your scoring pile. These cards will count
for points at the end of the shift. You will be the
leader for the next order – see More Orders, below.
SHORT ORDERS
If an order goes all the way around the table
unfilled, then it gets easier to fill because the cus-
tomer is getting desperate for his food. This means
you can make it “short.”
On the second time around the table, you may
omit any one item from the order. For example, if
the order was a Cowabunga (Cow Meat and Bun)
you could fill it with just a Cow Meat, or just a Bun.
You can still play the entire order if you have the
cards and want to get them into your scoring pile.
Each time the order goes around the table, one
more item can be left out. If it goes around so
many times that it can be filled with zero cards, the
customer walks out and the order is discarded. The
player on the leader’s left takes the lead and deter-
mines a new order.
MORE ORDERS
When you fill an order, you become the “leader”
. . . you determine the next order. You may roll or
call, as above. Use the sand timer on every order
after the first. If the leader takes too long to decide
and the timer runs out, the other players may call
out “Now!” (or “Brainnnnsss” . . .) and the leader
must either immediately call an order, or roll.
Remember, we are all fast- food- selling zombies
here, and we don’t think about anything very long.
ENDING THE SHIFT
The shift ends immediately when one player
gets rid of his last card, either by filling an order or
by passing a card away. Be aware that the end is
inevitable if the player on the leader’s left is down
to one card.
The number on each card is its point value. Add
the values of all the cards in your scoring pile, plus
any tokens you have. Then subtract the values of
the cards left in your hand. It’s possible to have a
negative score. Record your score for the shift.
The dealer for the next shift is the player with
the lowest score.
WINNING THE GAME
After four shifts, the game is over, and the play-
er with the highest total score is the winner.
STRATEGY
Early in the shift, you will want to accumulate
cards, which means you will want to roll some
orders so people will hand you cards. Later on, you
will probably want to call orders you can fill, to get
those big sets of cards out of your hand and into
your scoring pile. 
Learn the menus and develop a feel for which
cards go together. Give away the cards you can’t
play. If you have the right cards to make a really
big meal, you’ll be tempted to hold onto them . . .
but unless that order comes up, or you grab the
lead and call that order, you risk getting stuck with
them if you don’t use them on smaller orders. Also,
try to get a feel for the kinds of cards
your neighbor is pass-
ing you. Chances
are, he’ll hand you
more of the same.
OPTIONAL RULES
Graveyard Shift: The last shift of the game is
the Graveyard Shift. The score for this shift counts
double. This gives players a better chance to come
from behind!
Fast Zombies: If you want to play something
really quick while you’re waiting for the rest of the
group to arrive, just treat each shift as a separate
game.
Slooooow Zombies: Don’t use the sand timer.
Any player may take as long as necessary to decide
between calling and rolling, and to decide what to
call.
Example: On the basic Friedey’s menu, a
green 5 and a black 2 means the
order is a “Chickabunga Conga.”
The icons show the ingredients
needed to fill that order: a Bun, Fries, a Drink,
and Bird Meat.
Using the Tokens
Some menus have special rules for scoring
short orders. The tokens are used to track extra
points. Put the unused tokens in the middle of
the table. Take one when you win it, and keep
your tokens with your scoring pile.

THE MENUS
There are eight menus in the Friedey’s family of
fine zombie- staffed restaurants. You can also
make up your own!
The Full Deck: 12 Bun, 8 Sauce, 12 Fries, 12
Drink, 12 Veggie, 8 Cheese, 12 Cow, 8 Fish, 10
Bird, 4 Pie. 
Friedey’s
This is the original menu for Lord of the Fries,
and we suggest you play it first.
The last category on the menu is Special Orders,
which add ingredients to regular orders. You can’t
call Special Orders – you have to roll them.
Note that only a single menu item uses the Pie,
and it’s very hard to make, so there’s a good chance
that whoever has the Pie will get stuck with it.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 8 Bun, 8 Fries, 8 Drink,
5 Cheese, 4 Cow, 4 Fish, 4 Bird, 1 Pie (42 cards).
Veggies, 4 Bun, 4 Fries, 4 Drink, 3 Cheese, 8 Cow,
4 Fish, 6 Bird, 3 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 12 Bun, 12 Fries, 
12 Drink, 8 Cheese, 6 Cow, 6 Fish, 6 Bird, 1 Pie 
(63 cards).
Veggies, 6 Cow, 2 Fish, 4 Bird, 3 Pie.
Friedey’s Holiday Menu
The last category on the menu is Special Orders,
which add ingredients to regular orders. You can’t
call Special Orders – you have to roll them.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 10 Bun, 4 Fries, 8 Drink,
5 Cheese, 4 Cow, 5 Fish, 6 Bird, 1 Pie (43 cards).
Veggies, 2 Bun, 8 Fries, 4 Drink, 3 Cheese, 8 Cow,
3 Fish, 4 Bird, 3 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 12 Bun, 6 Fries, 12
Drink, 7 Cheese, 6 Cow, 8 Fish, 8 Bird, 1 Pie (60
Veggies, 6 Fries, 1 Cheese, 6 Cow, 2 Bird, 3 Pie.
Friedey’s Long Wok (Chinese)
Play is “Family Style.” You can steal one ingre-
dient from any other player’s scoring pile in order
to complete an order, as long as you play at least
two cards yourself.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 8 Bun, 6 Sauce, 6 Veggie,
2 Cheese, 8 Cow, 2 Fish, 8 Bird, 3 Pie (43 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Fries, all Drink, 4
Bun, 2 Sauce, 6 Veggies, 6 Cheese, 4 Cow, 6 Fish, 2
Bird, 1 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 10 Bun, 7 Sauce, 
8 Veggie, 2 Cheese, 10 Cow, 3 Fish, 10 Bird, 4 Pie
(54 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Fries, all Drink, 2
Bun, 1 Sauce, 4 Veggies, 6 Cheese, 2 Cow, 5 Fish.
Ghicciaroni’s (Italian)
At Ghicciaroni’s, a dish is always worth the
same number of points even if it is missing some
ingredients. Track the extra points with tokens.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 6 Bun, 6 Sauce, 6 Veggie,
6 Cheese, 5 Cow, 4 Fish, 6 Bird, 3 Pie 
(42 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Fries, all Drink, 6
Bun, 2 Sauce, 6 Veggies, 2 Cheese, 7 Cow, 4 Fish, 4
Bird, 1 Pie (42 cards).
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 8 Bun, 8 Sauce, 9 Veggie,
8 Cheese, 7 Cow, 6 Fish, 8 Bird, 4 Pie 
(58 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Fries, all Drink, 4
Bun, 3 Veggies, 5 Cow, 2 Fish, 2 Bird.
Love’s Labours Lunch (English)
Each time an order goes around the table
unfilled, it becomes worth five extra points. Track
the extra points with tokens.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 7 Bun, 5 Fries, 7 Drink,
5 Veggies, 6 Cheese, 6 Cow, 4 Fish, 3 Bird, 3 Pie (46
To build this deck, take out all Sauce, 5 Bun, 7
Fries, 5 Drink, 7 Veggies, 2 Cheese, 6 Cow, 4 Fish,
7 Bird, 1 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 10 Bun, 7 Fries, 10
Drink, 7 Veggies, 8 Cheese, 8 Cow, 6 Fish, 5 Bird, 4
Pie (65 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Sauce, 2 Bun, 5
Fries, 2 Drink, 5 Veggies, 4 Cow, 2 Fish, 5 Bird.
Montezuma’s (Mexican Deli)
At Montezuma’s, any kind of Meat card can be
substituted for the right one, but it scores no
points. (Play it to a separate stack in the middle of
the table, face down.)
Note that none of the items on the menu include
the Pie. Whoever gets stuck with the Pie at the end
of the game will lose 6 points.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 4 Bun, 6 Sauce, 5 Drink,
6 Veggie, 6 Cheese, 5 Cow, 4 Fish, 5 Bird, 1 Pie (42
To build this deck, take out all Fries, 8 Bun, 2
sauce, 7 Drink, 6 Veggie, 2 Cheese, 7 Cow, 4 Fish,
5 Bird, 3 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 7 Bun, 8 Sauce, 7 Drink,
10 Veggie, 8 Cheese, 8 Cow, 6 Fish, 9 Bird, 1 Pie (64
To build this deck, take out all Fries, 5 Bun, 5
Drink, 2 Veggie, 4 Cow, 2 Fish, 1 Bird, 3 Pie.
Ratherbee’s Steakhouse
Yes, the “Donner Pass” is nothing. If it’s the
order, the lead passes to the left.
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 9 Bun, 4 Sauce, 3 Fries,
6 Drink, 6 Veggie, 6 Cheese, 5 Cow, 5 Fish, 5 Bird,
3 Pie (52 cards).
To build this deck, take out 3 Bun, 4 Sauce, 9
Fries, 6 Drink, 6 Veggie, 2 Cheese, 7 Cow, 3 Fish, 5
Bird, 1 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 11 Bun, 6 Sauce, 5 Fries,
9 Drink, 8 Veggie, 8 Cheese, 7 Cow, 6 Fish, 7 Bird,
4 Pie (71 cards).
To build this deck, take out 1 Bun, 2 Sauce, 7
Fries, 3 Drink, 4 Veggie, 5 Cow, 2 Fish, 3 Bird.
McPubihan’s
Deal six cards face- up on the table. They are the
“stew pot.” The rest of the deck is dealt normally.
Anyone can use one card from the stew pot to fill
an order, until they’re gone. Cards from the pot
don’t score (stack them face down in the middle of
the table).
3–5 player Deck Recipe: 8 Fries, 8 Drink, 8
Veggie, 6 Cheese, 8 Cow, 6 Fish, 2 Pie (46 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Buns, all Sauce,
all Bird, 4 Fries, 4 Drink, 4 Veggie, 2 Cheese, 4
Cow, 2 Fish, 2 Pie.
6–8 player Deck Recipe: 10 Fries, 12 Drink, 12
Veggie, 8 Cheese, 12 Cow, 8 Fish, 3 Pie (65 cards).
To build this deck, take out all Buns, all Sauce,
all Bird, 2 Fries, 1 Pie.
Friedey’s on the Web
Visit www.sjgames.com/lordofthefries to
see what we might have posted for you in the
way of new and optional stuff. There’s already a
blank menu that you can download if you want
to invent your own restaurant!
And don’t miss the original Cheapass Games
Double- Secret Web Site at www.cheapass.com.
www.sjgames.com/lordofthefries
®
STEVE 
JACKSON
GAMES
Game design by James Ernest • Illustrated by Brian Snoddy
Third edition development by James Ernest, Steve Jackson, Will Schoonover, and Phil Reed
Managing Editor/Print Buyer: Philip Reed • Production Artist: Alex Fernandex
Sales Manager: Ross Jepson • Marketing Director: Paul Chapman
Playtesters: Fox Barrett, Jimmie Bragdon, Jason Cates, Matt Deegler, Richard Dodson, Ross Drews, 
Carissa Gragg, Andrew Hackard, Richard Kerr, Fade Manley, Don Mohr, Randy Scheunemann, 
Thomas Weigel, Loren Wiseman, Shadlyn Wolfe, Duncan Wright, and the Cheapass Games Guinea Pigs.
Lord of the Fries Third Edition (2008) published by Steve Jackson Games.
“Warehouse 23” and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games. 
Friedey’s ( “FRIED- Ease”) and the “F” logo are trademarks of James Ernest and are used under license.
Lord of the Fries is copyright © 1998, 2002, 2008 by James Ernest. All rights reserved. 
Rules version 1.0 (March 2008).