®

Page 2
The time has come for the final confrontation
between the Fellowship and Sauron in
Middle Earth. Will the Hobbit Frodo and his
companions bring the One Ring to Mount
Doom deep in the land of Mordor? Or will
they fall to the forces of the dark lord Sauron
and lose Middle Earth to eternal darkness? 
Only one side can win!
WELCOME
With this copy of LORD OF THE RINGS: THE CON-
FRONTATION Deluxe Edition, you will be able to
relive the epic struggle between the Fellowship and the
minions of Sauron in J.R.R. Tolkien’s classic fantasy tril-
ogy The Lord of the Rings. 
If you are ready to help the Fellowship of the Ring in
their dangerous journey to help Frodo reach Mount
Doom, or if you are ready to control the forces of Sauron
in their hunt for the One Ring, then read on: Adventure
and excitement await. 
COMPONENTS
In addition to this rules book-
let, below is a list of the game
components:
18 Fellowship and
Sauron Combat
Cards: These cards,
nine for each player,
are played when two
characters enter into
battle against one
another. 
8 Special Cards:
These cards represent
special powers that
players may use
when playing
with the Special
Cards variant
rule.
18 Plastic
Character
Stands: The
detailed plastic
stands, nine for each
player, are used to hide
your character tiles
from the other player
while on the game
board.
1 Game Board: The game board is the central area upon
which the action and adventure takes place.
18 Character Tiles: These double-sided cardboard
pieces, nine for each player, represent the characters con-
trolled by the Fellowship player and the Sauron player.
In the classic game, only the side of the tiles showing the
small ring symbol are used. The other side of the charac-
ter tiles (showing a white star) are used in the two vari-
ant games described later.
18 Character Tokens: These small double-sided tokens
matching the character tiles are used in the “Draft” vari-
ant game on page 6.
2 Reference Sheets: These sheets are helpful references
that players may use to familiarize themselves with their,
and their opponent’s, characters and cards.
PLAYING THE CLASSIC GAME
The rules for playing THE CONFRONTATION will be
explained assuming that you are playing the classic
game. Rules for playing either the variant game or the
draft game are found towards the end of this rules 
booklet.
When playing the classic game, make sure that you are
using the side of the character tiles that display the One
Ring symbol (The character on the reverse side of the
tile – showing the Star symbol – is not used in the clas-
sic game).
SETUP
Before playing the game for the first time, carefully
unpack the cards and separate the cardboard counters
from their frames so that they do not tear.
One player controls the nine companions of the
Fellowship and is the Fellowship player. The other
player controls the nine evil characters and is the Sauron
player. Before the game begins, players should familiar-
ize themselves with both their own and their opponent’s
cards and characters. The special abilities of each card
and every character are described in detail on pages 7
through 11.
• The Fellowship player slides the nine Fellowship char-
acter tiles (with the green scroll graphics) into the light
plastic wall pieces so that the picture and text is facing
him (and not his opponent). The Sauron player slides the
WHAT IS NEW IN THE DELUXE
EDITION?
In this edition you will not only be able to
play the original classic game, but also play
an entirely new variant game with new
characters found on the reverse side of the
character tiles. Furthermore, you will also
be able to play a “draft” version of the
game in which players may select charac-
ters from either the original version or the
variant game. Finally, the Deluxe Edition
also includes four new Special Cards in
addition to the four Special Cards found in
the original release. 
In summary these are the new elements of
this edition:
• A variant game using the 18 new charac-
ters found on the reverse side of the classic
character tiles.
• Rules for playing a draft game. The
included character tokens may be used as
visual reminders for which declared mix of
characters your opponent is using in the
draft game.
• Four new Special Cards, for use with
either the classic game, the variant game, or
the draft game.
• Larger character tiles and plastic stands,
sculpted to identify either the Sauron or the
Fellowship player.
• Some new terms in the game rules and
regions are used. For example, the “Moria”
region from the original game is now called
“Caradhras.” 
• Common questions that arose from the
original rules have been addressed in these
rules.
• Brand new artwork on all components.
Ring Symbol 
(Classic Game)
Star Symbol 
(Variant Game)

Page 3
nine Sauron Character tiles (with the red scroll graphic)
into the dark plastic wall pieces. Now both players each
have nine game pieces which we call characters. (Note:
Your opponent should not see which of your characters
goes into which wall piece.) Remember, in the classic
game, the faceout side of the characters should all show
the One Ring symbol. 
• Each player takes his nine Combat Cards into his hand.
The Fellowship player takes the Fellowship cards and
the Sauron player takes the Sauron cards. (The eight
Special Cards are only used with the game variant
described on page 10-11.)
• The board is placed between the two players so that the
corner with the Shire is pointing at the Fellowship play-
er, and the corner with Mordor is pointing towards the
Sauron player. 
• The Fellowship player chooses four of his characters
and places them in the Shire. He then places his remain-
ing five characters in the five regions in front of the
Shire (Arthedain, Cardolan, Enedwaith, Eregion, and
Rhudaur), so that each of those five regions contains one
Fellowship character.
• The Sauron player proceeds likewise: He chooses and
places four of his characters in Mordor, then places his
remaining five characters in the five regions in front of
Mordor (Gondor, Dagorlad, Fangorn, Mirkwood, and
Rohan), so that each of those five regions contains one
Sauron character.
• No characters may be placed on any of the mountain
regions at the beginning of the game.
Note: Each character should be placed so that its hidden
side is facing the opponent. In this way each player only
sees the identities of his own characters.
PLAYING THE GAME
The Sauron player takes the first turn. Play then alter-
nates between the two players for the rest of the game.
MOVEMENT
During a player’s turn, he must move one of his charac-
ters forward using the following rules: 
• A character can only move forward to an adjacent
region. Characters can never move sideways or back-
wards unless otherwise stated on their character text or
allowed by card play or special rules. (Example: Frodo’s
text allows him to retreat sideways if he is attacked.).
• Characters can never move sideways while in the
mountains (not even by the use of cards or special abili-
ties, unless specifically stated).
• Each player may never have more than four characters
each in either the Shire or Mordor.
• Each player can only have one character in each moun-
tain region. 
• Each player can have two characters in all other
regions.
• A player can never move a character into (or through) a
region that already holds the maximum number of his
own characters (not even through the use of cards or
character text, unless specifically stated).
GAME COMPONENTS
GAME BOARD
Sauron Combat Cards
Fellowship Combat Cards
Fellowship Special Cards
Sauron Special Cards
Character Tokens (Draft Game)
Character Stands & Tiles
THE MOUNTAIN
REGIONS
A REGION

Page 4
• A player may, at any time, shuffle his characters in the
same region in order to confuse his opponent. (By shuf-
fling, a player picks up his characters in a region, shuf-
fles them behind his back or under the table, and places
them back into the same region.) This is always helpful
when your opponent knows the identity of one of your
characters in a specific region. Characters from different
regions can never be mixed together in this way. You
may never shuffle characters that are currently revealed.
• Some characters have special movement abilities as
described in their character text. Such special movement
and other special abilities are described in detail for each
character on pages 7 through 10.
• The River Anduin: The Fellowship player can use the
downstream river to move his characters from Mirkwood
to Fangorn, or from Fangorn to Rohan. Any movement
along the river Anduin arrows on the game board is con-
sidered a forward move. Forward movement in the
opposite direction is not allowed (from Rohan to
Fangorn, or Fangorn to Mirkwood). The Sauron player
may never use the river.
• The Tunnel of Moria: The Fellowship player can
move his characters forward through the Tunnel of
Moria (from Eregion into Fangorn), but never in the
opposite direction (from Fangorn to Eregion) even if a
character is retreating. If the Sauron player reveals the
Balrog in the Caradhras region while a character is trav-
eling through the tunnel, that character is instantly
defeated without a battle. The Sauron player cannot use
the Tunnel of Moria for movement or retreats.
BATTLE
If a character is moved into a region occupied by one or
more enemy characters, a battle occurs. The moving
piece is considered to be attacking. The opposing piece
is considered to be attacked. Moving a character into a
region containing one or more opposing characters is
also called an attack.
If there are two or more unrevealed opposing characters
in the contested region, the attacking player randomly
chooses which unrevealed opposing character will be his
opponent for the battle. Alternatively, an attacking player
may always choose to attack a specific enemy character
that is already revealed in the region. 
A battle is resolved in three steps:
1. REVEAL CHARACTERS
Both players reveal their character to their opponent.
2. RESOLVE CHARACTER ABILITIES
The Fellowship player now reads and resolves any text
ability on his character first, followed by the Sauron
player. (Exception: If the Warg is participating in the bat-
tle, then the text of the Fellowship character is ignored.)
Several Fellowship characters (as indicated by their
character text) may retreat at the start of the battle
before the Sauron character’s text is read and resolved
(with the exception of the Warg). After such a character
has been revealed and its text has been read aloud, the
character then has the opportunity to retreat sideways or
backwards into an adjacent region. 
A character can never retreat into a region occupied by
an enemy character or a region with the maximum num-
ber of characters in it. Also, a character can never retreat
sideways in the mountains or backwards through the
Tunnel of Moria or upstream against the Anduin river.
Movement Examples
When moving forward,
unless moving into Mordor, the Shire, or
along the yellow arrows (Fellowship only), a
character must always move into one of the
two adjacent regions before him. 
A character is never allowed to move
or retreat sideways in the mountains. In
the above example, Frodo cannot use his
ability to retreat sideways, because he is in a
battle taking place in a mountain region.
Only the Fellowship player may move
his characters forward from Eregion to
Fangorn using the Tunnel of Moria. No
movement or retreats are allowed in the 
opposite direction (from Fangorn to Eregion). 
A character may
never move or retreat
into a region that already
contains the maximum num-
ber of characters of its
own side. 
Only the Fellowship player
may move his characters for-
ward along the downstream
Anduin river in the direction of the
yellow arrows. Normal movement
in the upstream direction is not
allowed. 

Page 5
If a Fellowship character successfully retreats, any effect
of the Sauron character’s text (except for the Warg) is
ignored.
If neither character in the battle retreats, one or both of
the characters may be defeated based on the characters’
text. If a character is defeated, that character is removed
from the board and set aside, ending the battle.
3. PLAY CARDS
If neither of the characters has retreated or been defeated
after resolving character texts, then each player must
secretly select one of the remaining Combat Cards from
his hand. After both players have selected a card, they
reveal their card choice simultaneously faceup on the
table. Some Combat Cards are considered Text Cards
and have text on them, while other Combat Cards are
considered Strength Cards and are represented by a sin-
gle number.
Text Cards always take effect before Strength Cards. If
both players reveal Text Cards, the Sauron player’s card
is read and resolved first, followed by the Fellowship
player’s Text Card. 
4. COMPARE STRENGTHS
If the battle isn’t over after the Text Cards have been
resolved, then the Strength number of each player’s
Strength Card (if any) is added to the Strength value of
his character. The character with the lowest total strength
is defeated. If the total strength of the two characters is
equal, then both characters are defeated.
When a character is defeated, it is removed from the
game board and placed faceup by its opponent’s side of
the table. A character that has retreated from a battle is
not considered defeated.
After a battle, the used Combat Cards are now discarded
and placed faceup beside the game board. When all nine
Combat Cards have been used (which always happens
simultaneously) both players take all of their Combat
Cards back into their hands.
Note that used Combat Cards are always kept faceup
and are always considered open information. Players
may at any time investigate their opponent’s used
Combat Card pile so that they may know which cards
the opponent has remaining in his hand.
After a battle, if there are still additional enemy charac-
ters in the contested region, another battle begins. The
new battle is resolved as described above. (Note that
there may be up to four opposing characters in the Shire,
up to four opposing characters in Mordor, one opposing
character in the mountains, and up to two opposing char-
acters in all other regions.)
A player’s turn does not end until all battles are resolved
and only Fellowship or Sauron characters (or none at all)
occupy each region.
At the end of a battle – also after a retreat – any revealed
non-defeated characters are concealed and thus hidden
from the opponent once more (unless specified other-
wise, such as by the “Crebain of Dunland” Special
Card).
GAME END
These are the possible ways for the game to end:
• The Fellowship player wins immediately if Frodo
enters Mordor, regardless of whether or not there are
Sauron characters in Mordor (no battle is fought).
• The Sauron player wins immediately if he has either a)
three characters in the Shire, or b) if Frodo (classic ver-
sion) is defeated.
Battle Example
Aragorn has jused used his ability to attack
a Sauron character in Fangorn from
Mirkwood. The Sauron player reveals that
Aragorn has attacked Shelob.
Neither characters’s text abilities defeat
their opponent, so players must now
secretly select a Combat Card, which is
simultaneously revealed. The Fellowship
players reveals his “4” card, while the
Sauron players reveals his “Eye of Sauron”
card. Since the Fellowship player did not
play a Text Card, the “Eye of Sauron” has 
no effect.
The Fellowship player adds the value of his
Strength card to Aragorn’s Strength value,
for a total of 8. Since the Sauron player’s
Combat Card did not have a Strength value,
Shelob’s final Strength value remains 5.
Since Aragorn’s total strength is higher than
Shelob’s, the Sauron character is defeated
and removed from the board.
Strength Card
Text Card

Page 6
• If a player is unable to move a
character forward during his
turn, he loses immediately.
We recommend that you play two
games. Each player should play
the Fellowship player once and the
Sauron player once. The winner of
each of these games receives one
point for each of his characters that
remain on the board at the end of the
game (the loser receives no points).
After two games, the player who has
the highest total number of points is
the overall winner.
THE VARIANT GAME
After you have played the classic game
and become accustomed to the strategies
and nuances of playing LORD OF THE
RINGS: THE CONFRONTATION, you
may wish to play the variant game that
is included in this Deluxe Edition.
The variant game is played exactly like
the classic game, except that the variant
characters, found on the reverse side of
the character tiles, are used.
Before starting the variant game, make
sure that the variant character side is showing
face out in the plastic stand. Every character
belonging to the variant game has the Star sym-
bol instead of the One Ring symbol printed
below the artwork. After you have switched to
the variant characters, you will notice that some of
the tiles represent the same character as the classic
version, while others represent entirely new characters
from The Lord of the Rings trilogy. Although some of
the characters are the same in both version, all 18 vari-
ant characters feature new abilities.
The classic game pitched the versatile, but weaker,
nine members of the Fellowship of the Ring against
the overpowering minions of Sauron. This effective-
ly simulated the desperate nature of the
Fellowship’s journey to Mordor. The variant
game, however, seeks to simulate the greater
struggle between the free people of the west
and the malign intent of Sauron. In the variant
version, the Fellowship player is given more
strength with characters such as Elrond,
Treebeard, and Theoden, while the Sauron
player is now able to harness Sauron’s malign
cunning with such characters as Wormtounge
or the new Witch King.
• In the variant game, the Sauron player wins immedi-
ately if the Witch King enters the Shire, regardless of
whether there are any Fellowship characters in the Shire
(no battle is fought). 
• In the variant game, a defeated Frodo can make Sam
the new “Ringbearer” (by passing the One Ring to Sam).
The Fellowship player must reveal Sam when he is made
the new Ringbearer. If Sam is not on the board when
Frodo is defeated, then the Sauron player immediately
wins the game. 
When Sam is the Ringbearer, the Fellowship player wins
the game immediately if Sam enters Mordor, regardless
of whether or not there are Sauron characters in Mordor
(no battle is fought). If Sam as the Ringbearer is defeat-
ed, the Sauron player immediately wins the game. 
THE DRAFT GAME
If you have played both the classic and variant versions
of THE CONFRONTATION, you may be ready for an
entirely different game experience.
This edition of the game allows you to play a “draft”
game, in which each player may decide whether he
wishes to play with the classic characters, the variant
characters, or any mix thereof.
Before the game begins, each player secretly places his
character tiles into the nine plastic stands each with the
face out side of his choosing. In this way, the player can
have any mix of the nine (classic or variant) characters.
Example: During a draft game, the Sauron player must
make nine decisions on which characters to field. One of
these decisions will be whether use Shelob or Worm-
tounge (who is the variant character on the reverse side
of Shelob).
After both players have chosen their characters and
placed them in their plastic stands, the chosen characters
are then revealed to the opponent. This allows each play-
er to see which characters the opponent is fielding, and
to use the included character tokens as visual reminders
as to which character versions the opponent has chosen. 
Frodo
Classic Version
Frodo
Variant Version

Page 7
OTHER VARIANT: If both players agree, do not reveal the
character choices before the game begins, letting their
identities become apparent as they are revealed through-
out the game.
OTHER RULES
CHOOSING A CHARACTER
When you are asked to choose a character, such as with
the “Crebain of Dunland” or “A King Revealed” Special
Cards, you must choose a character piece on the game
board (hidden or revealed). 
REVEALED CHARACTERS
Characters may use abilities that require them to be
revealed, even if they are already revealed. For example,
if Gandalf (variant version) has already been revealed
with the “Crebain of Dunland” Special Card, you may
still reveal Gandalf to add strength to another Fellowship
character.
THE COMBAT CARDS
The card abilities of the combat Text Cards are described
in detail below. 
THE FELLOWSHIP CARDS
The Fellowship player has five Strength Cards, ranging
in values from 1 through 5. The Fellowship’s Text Cards
are described below: 
Note that if the Sauron player has played his “Eye of
Sauron” card, the effect of a Fellowship Text Card
will be ignored for that battle.
MAGIC
Both sides have one “Magic” Text Card
at their disposal. A player who plays this
card during a battle must immediately
replace it with any one of his discarded
(previously played) cards. If a player
has no previously played cards, this card
has no strength value or effect. If both
players play their “Magic” card simulta-
neously, the Sauron player chooses his replacement card
first.
NOBLE SACRIFICE
If this card is played, both characters
involved in the battle are defeated –
unless the Sauron player has played his
“Retreat” card, in which case neither
character is defeated (but both cards are
still discarded).
ELVEN CLOAK
If the Fellowship player has played this
card and the Sauron player has played
any of his Strength Cards, the strength
value of the Sauron player’s Strength
Card is ignored. If the Sauron player
has played his “Magic” card and
replaced it with a Strength Card, that
Strength Card is likewise ignored. 
RETREAT (BACKWARDS)
The Fellowship player moves his char-
acter backwards to an adjacent region,
as long as this region contains no
Sauron characters and isn’t occupied by
the maximum number of Fellowship
characters (in which case there can be
no retreat, and the battle proceeds).
THE SAURON CARDS
The Sauron player has six Strength Cards, ranging in
values from 1 through 6. The Sauron player’s Text Cards
work as described below:
MAGIC
See the explanation under the
Fellowship’s “Magic” card.
THE EYE OF SAURON
When the Sauron
player plays this card and the
Fellowship player has played a Text
Card, the text on the Fellowship play-
er’s card is ignored. If the Fellowship
player has played a Strength Card, then
“The Eye of Sauron” card has no effect.
RETREAT (SIDEWAYS)
The Sauron player immediately moves
his character sideways into an adjacent
region, as long as this region is not a
mountain region, contains no
Fellowship characters, and isn’t occu-
pied by the maximum number of
Sauron characters. When the Sauron
player uses this card to retreat from a
battle, the Fellowship player’s “Noble Sacrifice” card
has no effect in that battle.
THE CHARACTERS
The abilities of all characters are described below. Note
that the number in parentheses by every character indi-
cates his strength. 
THE FELLOWSHIP CHARACTERS
– CLASSIC VERSION:
FRODO (1):
Frodo can retreat sideways when attacked,
but not if he himself is the attacker. Frodo
can only use his ability to retreat at the
beginning of a battle, and not after cards have already
been played. The retreat does not count as a normal
move. Frodo can never retreat sideways in the moun-
tains.
SAM (2):
If Sam is in the same region as Frodo, and
Frodo is attacked first, the Fellowship player
may reveal Sam and replace Frodo in the
battle. If Sam replaces Frodo in battle with the Orcs
(classic version), the Orcs immediately defeat Sam. Sam
is strength 5 when in the same region as Frodo, but the
Fellowship player must reveal both Frodo and Sam at
the beginning of a battle in order to prove Sam’s
strength. In battle against the Warg, the text on the
Fellowship characters (and therefore also Sam’s special
ability, including his ability to replace Frodo) is ignored.
Since the character limit in mountain regions is
one, Sam can never accompany Frodo
in the mountains.

Page 8
PIPPIN (1):
When Pippin attacks, he can retreat back-
wards to an adjacent region after both char-
acters have been revealed for battle. Pippin
can only use his ability to retreat at the beginning of bat-
tle, and not after cards have already been played. The
retreat does not count as a normal move.
MERRY (2):
Merry defeats the Witch King immediately
before any cards are played. In battles
against all other enemies, the usual rules
apply.
GANDALF (5):
In a battle against Gandalf, should
the battle come to playing cards,
the Sauron player must choose
and play his card first. After the Sauron
player has revealed his card, the
Fellowship player chooses and plays
his card (the Fellowship player must
play a card, even if the Sauron player
played his “Retreat” card). If the
Sauron player plays his “Magic”
card (see above), he must complete-
ly resolve it and reveal his new card
before the Fellowship player must
choose and play a card. 
ARAGORN (4):
Aragorn can move into any
adjacent region – forwards,
sideways, or backwards – if
he attacks at least one enemy character
by doing so. Otherwise, Aragorn can
only move forward into an adjacent
region like the other characters. Aragorn
can attack the Warg using his special abili-
ty, since he uses his ability before he enters
the region with the Warg. Aragorn cannot
attack sideways in the mountains.
LEGOLAS (3):
Legolas defeats the Flying Nazgûl
immediately, before any cards are
played. In battles against all other
enemies, the usual rules apply.
GIMLI (3):
Gimli defeats the Orcs immedi-
ately, before any cards are
played. In battles against all
other enemies, the usual rules apply.
BOROMIR (0):
If Boromir is in a battle, both characters are
defeated immediately. The only exceptions
are the Warg (in which case Boromir’s abili-
ty is ignored for that battle) and when Boromir uses the
Tunnel of Moria while the Balrog occupies Caradhras (in
which case Boromir is defeated without a battle).
THE SAURON CHARACTERS
– CLASSIC VERSION:
BALROG (5):
If the Balrog is in the Caradhras region
when a Fellowship character uses the Tunnel
of Moria (moving from Eregion directly to
Fangorn), the Sauron player may reveal the Balrog to
instantly defeat the Fellowship character without a battle
(even Frodo). The Balrog itself remains unharmed. Even
Boromir cannot harm the Balrog in this situation. A
Fellowship character that is defeated by the Balrog when
traveling through the Tunnel of Moria never reaches
Fangorn, so any Sauron character in Fangorn is not
revealed.
SHELOB (5):
If not in Gondor, and Shelob defeats a
Fellowship character, she is immediately
returned to Gondor. Upon returning, if there
are already two other Sauron characters in Gondor, or if
there are one or more Fellowship characters in Gondor,
she is immediately defeated and removed from the game.
WITCH KING (5):
The Witch King can move sideways into an
adjacent region if he attacks at least one
Fellowship character by doing so. Otherwise
he can only move forward into an adjacent region like
the other characters. He can never attack sideways in the
mountains. If the Witch King encounters Frodo in a side-
ways attack, Frodo may retreat sideways to the region
previously occupied by the Witch King, as long as no
other Sauron character is there.
FLYING NAZGUL (3):
The Flying Nazgûl can move to any region
on the board, as long as that region is occu-
pied by a single Fellowhip character. This
can potentially allow a Flying Nazgûl to attack an adja-
cent mountain region. Otherwise, for moving into any
other region, the Flying Nazgûl is restricted to the nor-
mal movement rules.

Page 9
BLACK RIDER (3):
The Black Rider can move forward any
number of regions if he attacks at least one
Fellowship character by doing so. If the
Black Rider does not want to attack, then he can only
move forward into an adjacent region following the nor-
mal movement rules. The Black Rider may never move
into or through a region already containing the maxi-
mum number of Sauron characters, nor may he move
through a region occupied by one or more 
Fellowship characters.
SARUMAN (4): 
Saruman can decide that no cards shall be
used in a battle in which he participates. If
no characters are defeated (or retreat) before
Combat Cards are played, then the Sauron player may
choose that the battle will be decided by the character’s
Strength values only. All other normal rules for battle
apply. If Aragorn (variant version) decides not to use his
ability, Saruman may then decide that no cards shall be
used instead. 
ORCS (2): 
When the Orcs attack, they immediately
defeat the first Fellowship character attacked
in the region. Gimli immediately defeats the
Orcs and is therefore unharmed in any battle against
them. If the Orcs attack Boromir, both characters are
defeated. If there are additional Fellowship characters in
the region, the Orc’s special ability is ignored for those
subsequent battles. The Orcs have no special ability if
attacked by a Fellowship character. 
If the Orcs attack Frodo first, Frodo may retreat side-
ways before the Orcs can defeat him. In this particular
case, this is still considered the first attack by the Orcs,
and they will have no special ability for the remainder of
the turn (this is also the case if the Fellowship player
uses his “Gwaihir the Windlord” Special Card on the
first character). 
If the Orcs attack Smeagol and there are no other
Fellowship characters in his region, Smeagol may switch
position with an adjacent Fellowship character, before
the Orcs can defeat him. In this particular case, no battle
is considered to have been fought, and the Orcs will
attack the new character as if that was their first attack. 
WARG (2):
In battle against the Warg, the Fellowship
character’s text has no effect. Aragorn can
use his ability since he uses his ability in the
adjacent region, before the battle against the Warg.
Treebeard can use his ability to attack into Fangorn since
he uses his ability before the battle against the Warg.
Treebeard’s Strength value is not increased to 6 in
Fangorn when in battle against the Warg there.
CAVE TROLL (9):
When it comes to playing cards in a battle
with the Cave Troll, the Sauron player’s card
is ignored. The Sauron player must still play
and discard a card, even though that card has no effect in
the battle.
THE FELLOWSHIP CHARACTERS
– VARIANT VERSION:
FRODO (1):
When in battle against Frodo, the Sauron
player’s Text Card is ignored. If Frodo is
defeated, Sam is the new Ringbearer. If the
Warg defeats Frodo, or if Sam has already been defeated,
the Sauron player immediately wins the game (see page
6 for more information about the “Ringbearer” and win-
ning the game with the variant Frodo).
SAM (1):
If attacked, the Strength value on Sam’s
character is equal to that of the Sauron char-
acter. Combat Cards and character special
abilities such as Gandalf’s (variant version) are added to
Sam’s Strength value normally. If Sam is attacked by
the Orcs (variant version), his Strength is 6.
ELROND (3):
When in battle against Elrond, the Sauron
Player’s “Eye of Sauron” and “Magic” cards
are ignored during that battle.
GANDALF (5):
After Combat Cards have been revealed
during a battle taking place in a region adja-
cent to Gandalf’s (even a mountain region)
or in Gandalf’s own region, the Fellowship player may
reveal Gandalf to add 1 to the Strength of the engaged
Fellowship character. Gandalf may use his special ability
even if no cards have been played due to Aragorn’s
(variant) or Saruman’s (classic) ability. Gandalf may not
use his ability if the battle is against the Warg. Gandalf
may not use his ability if he attacks or is attacked him-
self. 
ARAGORN (4):
If attacked, Aragorn may decide that no
Combat Cards shall be used in the battle. 
TREEBEARD (4):
Treebeard’s Strength value is increased to 6
while he is in Fangorn. Treebeard may move
from any region on the board to Fangorn, as
long as Fangorn is occupied by a single Sauron charac-
ter. Otherwise, for moving into any other region,
Treebeard is restricted to the normal movement rules.
FARAMIR (3):
When attacking, Faramir may retreat side-
ways. Faramir can only use his ability to
retreat at the beginning of a battle, and not
after cards have already been
played. The retreat does not
count as a normal move. 
THEODEN (2):
Theoden’s
Strength value
increases to 4
while he is in Rohan or
Gondor, even if he attacks
into Rohan or Gondor. 

Page 10
SMEAGOL (0):
If Smeagol is attacked, and there are no
other Fellowship characters in his region, he
may switch positions with an adjacent
Fellowship character. Smeagol may not make a sideways
switch with an adjacent character in the mountains.
Smeagol can only use his ability at the beginning of a
battle, and not after cards have already been played. The
switch does not count as a normal move. If the Orcs
(classic) attack Smeagol, he may make the switch before
he is defeated.
If Smeagol switches with an adjacent character, the new
character will take his place in the battle. Resolve the
new Fellowship character’s text as if he had been
attacked.
THE SAURON CHARACTERS
– VARIANT VERSION:
URUK-HAI (4):
The Uruk-Hai can reveal themselves to
move forward any number of regions as
long as they end their movement in an
empty region. When doing so, the Uruk-Hai may never
move into or through a region already containing the
maximum number of Sauron characters, nor move
through a region occupied by one or more Fellowship
characters. Otherwise, the Uruk-Hai are restricted to the
normal movement rules.
WITCH KING (2):
The Sauron player wins immediately if the
Witch King enters the Shire (regardless of
whether or not there are any enemy charac-
ters in the region).
SARUMAN (3):
Saruman defeats Gandalf immediately
before any cards are played. After the
Fellowship player reveals his card in a battle
against Saruman, Saruman may force him to reveal a dif-
ferent card. Saruman may not use his ability if Aragorn
(variant) decides that no cards are played, or if the
Fellowship player only has one remaining Combat Card.
If Saruman forces the Fellowship player to reveal a new
card, the Fellowship player’s original card is placed back
into his hand. 
ORCS (3):
When the Orcs attack, their Strength value is
increased to 6. 
WORMTONGUE (-1):
If defeated, Wormtongue may retreat back-
wards into an empty, adjacent region.
Wormtongue may even retreat if he was
defeated by Boromir or the “Noble Sacrifice” card. If
Wormtongue is unable to retreat, he is removed from the
game.
MOUTH OF SAURON (3):
After cards are revealed in battle, the Sauron
player may replace his played card with his
“4” Strength Card (even if the “4” card is in
the discard pile). If the “4” card is taken from the discard
pile, the original card played must be placed among the
discarded cards. If the “4” card is taken from the Sauron
player’s hand, then the original card played is returned to
the Sauron player’s hand. 
The Mouth of Sauron may not use his ability if Aragorn
(variant version) decides that no cards are played. 
THE WATCHER (6):
Once revealed, the Watcher remains
revealed for the remainder of the game and
may not move forward. The Watcher may
retreat sideways with the Sauron player’s “Retreat” card
or be placed back in Mordor with the “Recall to Mordor”
Special Cards (but remains revealed in both instances). 
FLYING NAZGUL (5):
The Flying Nazgul may move forward,
skipping over one region to attack. It may
even skip over a region that contains the
maximum number of Shadow characters or a region
occupied by one or more Fellowship characters.
Otherwise, the Flying Nazgul is restricted to the normal
movement rules.
GOLLUM (1):
When in battle, Gollum may retreat forward.
Gollum can only use his ability to retreat at
the beginning of a battle, and not after cards
have already been played. The retreat does not count as a
normal move. Gollum may not retreat if the Fellowship
character has already retreated.
THE SPECIAL CARDS
Eight Special Cards are included in the game, four for
the Fellowship player and four for the Sauron player.
These represent special powers and abilities that may be
introduced as a variant game experience. Each Special
Card may only be used once per game and should be
returned to the game box after use. 
These are a few options for how the Special Cards can
be used:
• Before the game begins, each player selects two of his
four Spacial Cards to use throughout the game, or
• Before the game begins, the Fellowship player
announces a number between 0 and 4. Each player then
picks that number of his opponent’s Special Cards that
the opponent may use throughout the game.
Alternatively, these cards can be given (in a suitable pro-
portion) to inexperienced players when playing against a
more experienced opponent.
Note that the Special Cards are not subject to the same
rules as a player’s Combat Cards. The Saruman (classic
version) character, for example, may not prevent the
“Gwaihir the Windlord” Special Card from being played
during a battle against him. 
All character and card text, when referring to “cards,”
refers to Combat Cards only and not to these Special
Cards.
FELLOWSHIP SPECIAL CARDS
SHADOWFAX (CLASSIC GAME):
During the Fellowship player’s turn,
before he moves a character, the
Fellowship player can use the
Shadowfax card to move a Fellowship
character forward to an adjacent region
as long as there are no Sauron characters
in that region and that region does not
contain the maximum number of
Fellowship characters. (The character
can move along the Anduin, and through the Tunnel of
Moria – and is defeated normally if the Sauron player
reveals the Balrog in Caradhras.) The Fellowship player
must then move this same character normally during his
turn.
GANDALF THE WHITE
(CLASSIC GAME): 
Sauron player has finished his turn. The
Fellowship player must skip his entire
Fellowship player may bring a defeated
Gandalf back into play (the same ver-
sion – classic or variant), by placing the
Gandalf character in Fangorn. The
Fellowship player may not play this card if Fangorn is
occupied by any Sauron character, or if two other
Fellowship characters are in Fangorn. This card may not
be used unless Gandalf has already been defeated.

Page 11
A KING REVEALED
This card can be played after the Sauron
player has finished his turn. The
Fellowship player must skip his entire
Fellowship player must reveal Aragorn
to choose a Sauron character piece. The
Sauron player must move that character
piece during his next turn (the Sauron
player may therefore not skip his next
turn to play a Special Card). The Fellowship player may
not choose The Watcher if that character has already
been revealed. The Fellowship player may not play “A
King Revealed” if Aragorn has been defeated. 
GWAIHIR THE WINDLORD
This card can be played at the begin-
ning of a battle, before character texts
are resolved. The Fellowship character
gains the ability “Immediately retreat
sideways or backwards” (replacing the
character’s normal text) for the duration
of that battle only. The Fellowship play-
er may not play Gwaihir the Windlord
in a battle against the Warg. 
SAURON SPECIAL CARDS
PALANTIR (CLASSIC GAME)
The Sauron player can play this card at
any point during his turn to reveal all
Fellowship characters in one region,
except in The Shire. The Fellowship
player may not shuffle the characters in
this region until the Sauron player’s turn
is completely over.
RECALL TO MORDOR
(CLASSIC GAME)
Fellowship player has finished his
turn. The Sauron player must skip his
entire turn to use this card. When
played, the Sauron player may take
one of the Sauron characters anywhere
on the board and place it back in
Mordor. The Sauron player may not do
this if Mordor is occupied by any Fellowship characters,
or four Sauron characters.
THE DARK OF MORDOR
During the Sauron player’s turn, before
he moves a character, he can use this
card to move a Sauron character for-
ward to an adjacent region as long as
there are no Fellowship characters in
that region and it does not contain the
maximum number of Sauron characters.
Then, the Sauron player must move a 
different Sauron character as normal. This card may not
be used to move a revealed The Watcher 
character forward.
CREBAIN OF DUNLAND
Fellowship player has finished his turn.
The Sauron player must skip his entire
Sauron player may choose and reveal a
Fellowship character. That character
must remain revealed for the remainder
of the game. If Gandalf is chosen, then
later defeated, but returned to play with
the “Gandalf the White” Special Card, the new Gandalf
is no longer affected by the “Crebain of Dunland”.
THE DESIGNER:
Reiner Knizia was born in Germany. Today the doctor of
mathematics lives in England and dedicates himself
entirely to game design. Reiner Knizia is regarded as one
of the best and most prolific game designers in the world
and has received numerous honors worldwide for his
games.
The Designer would like to thank:
David Farquhar for his contributions to the development
of the game and also all the game testers, especially
Matthew Dodkins, Kevin Jacklin, Chris Lawson, and Les
Murrell.
Game Design: Reiner Knizia
Design of Variant Game Characters and new Special
Cards: Christian T. Petersen and 
Eric M. Lang
Additional Development: John Goodenough
Rules and Development: Christian T. Petersen
Board Artwork: John Howe
Other Artwork: John Gravato, Chris Dien, Sedone,
and Daarken.
Graphics: Brian Schomburg
Translation Work: Anders Petersen
Editing: James Torr and Christian T. Petersen
Executive Developer: Greg Benage
Production Manager: Darrell Hardy
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
© 2002, 2005 Tolkien Enterprises
© 2002, 2005 Sophisticated Games Ltd.
© 2002, 2005 Fantasy Flight Games, 1975 West County
Road B2 Suite 1, Roseville, MN 55113, USA.
Phone: 651-639-1905, Fax: 651-639-1764
Web: www.fantasyflightgames.com
E-mail: ffg@fantasyflightgames.com
All Rights Reserved. Made in China.
The Lord of the Rings and characters and places therein
are trademarks of Tolkien Enterprises, Berkeley CA and
are used, under license, by Sophisticated Games Ltd.
Distributed in the U.K. by Esdevium Games, Unit 2,
Riverwey Industrial Estate, Newman Lane, Alton,
Hampshire GU34 2QL, United Kingdom. 

Page 12
War of the Ring Expansion LTR09
From the land of Mordor, the dark Lord
Sauron seeks to conquer Middle Earth and its
people. To be sure of domination, he lacks
only the One Ring, the master ring.
The War of the Ring board is an epic
board game that allows its players to
immerse themselves in J.R.R. Tolkien’s 
classic story and experience the epic action,
dramatic conflict, the memorable characters
of THE LORD OF THE RINGS.
War of the Ring LTR07
Available December 2005