Rulebook
BOARD GAME
TM
AGE 12+

Table of Contents
Introduction	
How to Win	
	
	
Game Board	
	
Agents	
	
Score Markers	
	
Player Mats	
	
Adventurers	
	
Other Pieces	
	
	
Cards	
	
Start of Round	
	
	
Assign Agent	
	
Complete Quest	
	
End of Round	
Ending the Game	
	
Appendix 1: Buildings	
Appendix 2: Agents	
Appendix 3: Lords of Waterdeep	
Appendix 4: Clarifications	
Glossary	
Storage Diagram	
Rules Reference	
Back Cover
Game Components
© 2012 Wizards of the Coast LLC, P.O. Box 707, Renton, WA 98057-0707. Man-
ufactured by: Hasbro SA, Route de Courroux 6, 2800 Delemont, CH. Repre-
sented by: Hasbro Europe, 2 Roundwood Ave, Stockley Park, Uxbridge, Middle-
ses, UB11 1AZ UK. Please retain for future reference. Dungeons & Dragons, 
D&D, Wizards of the Coast, their respective logos, Lords of Waterdeep, and 
Forgotten Realms are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and 
other countries. All Wizards characters, character names, and the distinctive 
likenesses thereof are property of Wizards of the Coast LLC. MADE IN CHINA.
300-38851000-001-EN
Credits
Design	
Rodney Thompson, Peter Lee
Development	
Joe Huber, Peter Lee, 
	
Mons Johnson
Additional Development	
Mike Turian
Editing	
Jennifer Clarke Wilkes
D&D R&D 
Senior Group Manager	
Mike Mearls
D&D 
Tabletop Games Manager	
Rodney Thompson
D&D Senior Creative Director	 Jon Schindehette
Art Director	
Keven Smith
Graphic Design	
Emi Tanji
Cover Illustration	
Ralph Horsley
Game Board Illustration	
Mike Schley
Card Illustrations	
Eric Belisle, Steven Belledin, 	
	
Zoltan Boros, Noah Bradley, 
	
Eric Deschamps, Wayne 
	
England, Jason Engle, Tony 
	
Foti, Tyler Jacobson, Todd 
	
Harris, Ron Lemen, Howard 
	
Lyon, Warren Mahy, Patrick 
	
McEvoy, Jim Nelson, Ralph 
	
Horsley, William O’Connor, 
	
Adam Paquette, Lucio 
	
Parrillo, David Rapoza, 
	
Richard Sardinha, Andrew 
	
Silver, Anne Stokes, Gabor 
	
Szikszai, Matias Tapia, Kev 
	
Walker, Tyler Walpole, Eva 
	
Widermann, Eric L. 
	
Williams, Matthew D. 
	
Wilson, Sam Wood, 
	
Ben Wootten, James Zhang
Prepress Manager	
Jefferson Dunlap
D&D Brand Team	
Liz Schuh, Kierin Chase, 	
 
	
Laura Tommervik, Shelly 
	
Mazzanoble, Chris Lindsay, 
	
Hilary Ross
Imaging Technician	
Carmen Cheung
Production Manager	
Godot Gutierre
Playtesting	
Mark Anderson, Jennifer 	
	
	
Clarke Wilkes, Mark Globus, 
	
Genevieve Gorman, Joe 
	
Huber, Mons Johnson, Scott 
	
Larabee, Peter Lee, Joe 
	
Ludwig, Nissa Ludwig, 
	
Mike Mearls, Christopher 
	
Perkins, Bill Slavicsek, 
	
Rodney Thompson, Jennifer 
	
Tatroe, Kevin Tatroe, Mike 
	
Turian
Game board
Rulebook
Storage tray
5 player mats
100 Adventurer cubes:
	
25 Clerics (white)
	
25 Fighters (orange)
	
25 Rogues (black)
	
25 Wizards (purple)
33 wooden pieces:
	
5 score markers 
	
25 Agents (5 of each color)
	
1 Ambassador
	
1 Lieutenant
	
1 First Player marker
121 cards:
	
11 Lord of Waterdeep cards
	
50 Intrigue cards
	
60 Quest cards
170 die-cut pieces:
	
24 Building tiles
	
45 Building control markers 
	
(9 of each color)
	
60 Gold tokens
	
	
50 1-Gold tokens
	
	
10 5-Gold tokens
	
36 Victory Point tokens
	
5 100 VP tokens
Introduction
Welcome to Waterdeep, the City of Splendors! 
You are a Lord of Waterdeep, one of the 
secret rulers of this great city. Through your 
Agents, you recruit Adventurers to complete 
Quests and advance your agendas. 
The Lords of Waterdeep all have the safety 
of their city at heart, but each one is also 
laying his or her own plans! Through back-
door dealings, mercenaries, and plain old 
bribery, can you guide the city to become 
the greatest Lord of Waterdeep?
Game Setup Example (5 players)

Ambassador
Lieutenant
100 Victory Points
Rounds track
Scoring track
How to Win
The Lords of Waterdeep™ game is played in eight rounds. 
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the final 
round is the winner.
Before you can start playing, you’ll need to spend a bit of time 
setting up the game.
Game Board
The game board represents the various Wards of the city of 
Waterdeep. 
A track near the bottom edge of the board marks the passage 
of rounds, while another along the outside edge is used to track 
players’ scores.
Unfold and place the game board in the center of the play area 
within easy reach of all players. 
Each player also places 1 more Agent of his or her color near the 
Round 5 space of the rounds track. That Agent will be available 
for use on that round. A sixth (gray) space is included for use in 
future expansions.
Player Mats
Each player takes a player mat that matches his or her Agents’ 
color. This helps keep track of various game resources.
Score Markers
Each player has a circular wooden piece that matches the color of 
his or her Agents. Place these score markers on the scoring track 
in the space labeled “0.”
Agent Pool: Here is where you keep Agents that you have not yet 
assigned (see “Assign Agent” on page 8). At the end of the round, 
all of your assigned Agents return to your pool.
Tavern: This area holds the Adventurers you have hired until you 
use them to complete Quests. You also store Gold in your Tavern.
Completed Quests: Whenever you complete a Quest, you place 
its card in the “Completed Quests” area of your player mat. Rules 
for completing Quests start on page 10.
Counters representing 100 Victory Points (VP) are provided to 
mark when a score marker passes the “0” space in play.
Agents
As a Lord of Waterdeep, you assign your Agents to further your 
interests in the city. There are 5 different colors of these wooden 
pieces, which represent various secret societies. 
Each player chooses a color and takes Agents of that color. These 
form your pool of Agents. Place them on the “Agent Pool” area of 
your player mat. 
The number of Agents in your pool depends on the number of 
players, as shown in the table below.
	 Number Of Players	
Agents per Player
	
	
	
	
In addition, the game contains 2 neutral Agent pieces: the 
Ambassador and the Lieutenant. These Agents do not begin 
play under anyone’s control but can be added to a player’s pool 
through game effects.

Cleric
Rogue
Fighter
Wizard
1 Gold
(Heads)
(Tails)
5 Gold
Victory Point (VP) token
Building stack
Building tiles
First Player marker
Action Space
Cost
Owner benefit
Victory Points
As you complete Quests, you score 
Victory Points (VP). Unpurchased 
Buildings accumulate VP over time, 
represented by die-cut tokens. As well, 
some Buildings and other game effects 
provide VP.
Place 3 Victory Point tokens on each space of the rounds track.
Name: You can look up more detailed information about the 
Building by finding its name in Appendix 1: Buildings beginning 
on page 12.
Cost: The amount of Gold needed to purchase the Building. 
For example, Helmstar Warehouse costs 3 Gold.
Instructions: The resources that Building provides, which might 
be Adventurers, Gold, Victory Points, card draws, or other things. 
For example, Helmstar Warehouse provides 2 Rogues and 2 Gold.
Owner: The player who purchased the Building gains the stated 
benefit when any other player assigns an Agent to that Building (1 
Rogue, in the case of Helmstar Warehouse).
Cards
Cards represent the tasks that Adventurers perform in your ser-
vice, your sneaky manipulations, and secret victory conditions.
Lord Cards
The city of Waterdeep is secretly administered by powerful 
individuals known as the Lords of Waterdeep. Eleven Lord of 
Waterdeep cards (“Lord cards” for short) represent these hidden 
personalities.
Shuffle the Lord cards and deal 1 card face down to each player. 
Keep this card face down—your identity is a secret to your 
opponents.
Return the remaining Lord cards to the box, face down. They 
won’t be used for the rest of the game.
Whenever a player must draw a card from an empty deck, shuffle 
all the cards in the respective discard pile to form a new deck and 
place them face down in the appropriate space of the game board. 
Do not shuffle any completed Quest cards back into the Quest deck.
Quest Cards
As a Lord of Waterdeep, you advance your interests by completing 
Quests, represented by Quest cards. See “Complete Quest” on 
page 10 for more about acquiring and completing Quests.
Shuffle the Quest cards and deal 2 cards face up to each player. 
These cards form each player’s active Quests.
Next, place 1 face-up Quest card in each of the 4 spaces of 
Cliffwatch Inn. The rest of the face-down Quest cards form the 
Quest deck. Place the deck in the labeled space on the game 
board near Cliffwatch Inn.
If there aren’t enough of a particular Adventurer type in the 
supply to hire, you can hire only as many as are available.
Other Pieces
The Lords of Waterdeep game includes several kinds of pieces, 
described below. 
Building Control Markers
Each player has a number of die-cut tokens to indicate ownership 
of Buildings he or she has purchased. These tokens match the 
color of the player’s Agents. 
Gold
Nothing comes cheaply in Waterdeep. Your Agents need plenty 
of cash to grease the wheels. Gold is used to buy Buildings, to 
complete many Quests, and to pay for other game effects.
Gold is represented by die-cut tokens, in denominations of 1 
and 5 Gold. These also form part of the supply, which should be 
within easy reach of all players.
The game board contains 9 basic Buildings, each of which has 
one or more action spaces to which Agents can be assigned. 
See “Assign Agent” on page 8 for more information.
There are also spaces for Building tiles, which players can 
purchase and put into play. 
To start the game, draw 3 Building tiles and place them face up in 
each of the 3 spaces in Builder’s Hall.
The remaining face-down Building tiles form a stack, placed in 
the labeled space on the game board near Builder’s Hall.
Start Play
The player who has most recently been to 
another city goes first. Give that player the 
First Player marker. 
The starting player gets 4 Gold. The player 
to his or her left gets 5 Gold, and so on. 
Each player receives 1 more Gold than the 
player to his or her right until all players 
have received starting Gold.
Each Lord card grants bonus VP for meeting certain conditions, as 
described in its rules text. For example, Khelben Arunsun grants 
bonus VP for completing Arcana Quests and Warfare Quests.
Appendix 3: Lords of Waterdeep on page 20 summarizes the 
various Lords’ abilities.
Reading a Building
Each Building, whether printed on the game board or a tile 
in Builder’s Hall, contains the same kinds of information. 
See “Assign Agent” on page 8 for more information.
Intrigue Cards
Intrigue cards let you secretly manipulate others to advance your 
ends. But be careful—your fellow Lords of Waterdeep are also 
skilled in intrigue!
Shuffle the Intrigue cards and deal 2 cards face down to 
each player. Keep these cards hidden from your opponents. 
See “Play Intrigue Card” on page 9 for more information.
The rest of the face-down Intrigue cards form the Intrigue deck. 
Place the deck in the labeled space on the game board near 
Waterdeep Harbor.
Adventurers
Your Agents hire various Adventurers, whether noble heroes or 
mere mercenaries, to accomplish various tasks. 
There are four kinds of Adventurers, represented by wooden 
cubes: Clerics (white), Fighters (orange), Rogues (black), and 
Wizards (purple). Different Quests require different kinds of 
Adventurers to complete.
Along with Gold (see below), these cubes form the supply. 
Place them to the side of the game board, within easy reach 
of all players.

Cost (in gold)
Action space
Owner benefit
Control marker
Start-of-round
effect
Action space
Intrigue type
Basic Building
Advanced Building
The Lords of Waterdeep game is played in rounds. During each 
round, players take turns in which they assign their Agents to 
various tasks.
The game ends after 8 rounds have passed. The player with the 
most VP at the end of the eighth round is the winner.
Start of Round
The rounds track on the game board starts out with 3 VP tokens 
on each round space, as shown in the setup instructions. The VP 
tokens also serve to mark which round it is. 
At the start of each round, remove the 3 VP tokens from that 
round’s space and place 1 VP token on each face-up Building in 
Builder’s Hall. 
When Purchased/Start of Round: Some Building tiles have 
special instructions to be followed when the Building is pur-
chased and at the start of each round. If any of those Buildings 
are in play, follow the start-of-round instructions for each. 
(See Appendix 1: Buildings on page 12 for descriptions of these 
effects.)
Once all start-of-round effects are complete, players take turns 
in order.
Start of Round 5: Each player takes the extra Agent piece of his 
or her color from the space near the rounds track and adds it to his 
or her pool. The extra Agent is available for the rest of the game.
Each player takes turns, one at a time, starting with the player 
who has the First Player marker and proceeding to that 
player’s left.
During your turn, if you have Agents available to assign, you take 
one or both of the following actions.
	
1. Assign Agent
	
2. Complete Quest
Assign Agent
If you have any Agents in your pool, you assign 1 of them. To assign 
an Agent, place it on any unoccupied action space of a Building, 
whether a basic Building or one that has been put into play. You 
cannot place an Agent on an action space that contains another 
Agent (yours or another player’s) or on Buildings that are not yet 
in play.
When you assign an Agent, follow the instructions for that action 
space. You take that action just once. 
You cannot choose to pass your turn. If you have Agents avail-
able, you must assign 1 of them. (In the unlikely event that you 
cannot take an action on your turn, you must pass.)
If you have no more Agents available to assign, you can no longer 
take turns that round. For the rest of the round, play skips to the 
next player in order who still has available Agents.
Several basic Buildings have special rules, as described here. For 
detailed descriptions of all Buildings’ effects, see Appendix 1: 
Buildings on page 12.
Owner Benefit: Once a new Building is in play, it is available for 
anyone to assign an Agent to, just like any other Building on the 
game board. However, when someone other than the owner 
assigns an Agent to that Building’s action space, the owner gains 
the benefit described in the tile’s “Owner” line.
Cliffwatch Inn
Cliffwatch Inn has three action spaces instead of the usual one. 
You can assign more than 1 of your Agents to Cliffwatch Inn if it 
still has an open action space (but you still can’t assign more than 
1 Agent per turn).
Acquiring Quests: At the start of the game, this Building 
contains 4 face-up Quest cards. Assigning an Agent to Cliffwatch 
Inn is the usual way to get new Quests. However, each action 
space has a different effect.
You can choose any of the available action spaces when you assign 
an Agent to Cliffwatch Inn. 
Whenever you take a face-up Quest card, immediately replace it 
with a new card from the Quest deck.
Waterdeep Harbor
Waterdeep Harbor has three action spaces instead of the usual 
one. You can assign more than 1 of your Agents to Waterdeep 
Harbor if it still has an open action space (but you still can’t assign 
more than 1 Agent per turn).
Assigning an Agent to one of those spaces has two effects.
Builder’s Hall
Builder’s Hall allows you to purchase Building tiles, which add 
new potential actions to the game. 
Whenever you assign an Agent to Builder’s Hall, choose one of 
the face-up Buildings available for purchase and pay its Gold cost. 
You immediately score any VP for that Building and place its tile 
in one of the open spots on the board. Place one of your control 
markers on that tile to show you are the owner. 
After you purchase a Building, immediately draw the top tile of 
the Building stack and place it face-up on the vacated space.
Take 1 face-up Quest 
card from the avail-
able Quests, and 
take 2 Gold from the 
supply and place it 
in your Tavern.
1. Play Intrigue Card: By assigning an Agent to one of the action 
spaces on Waterdeep Harbor, you play a single Intrigue card from 
your hand. If you have no Intrigue cards, you cannot assign an 
Agent to Waterdeep Harbor.
When you play an Intrigue card, you follow its instructions 
immediately. Its effect takes place just once. For example, 
Lack of Faith forces each opponent to remove 1 Cleric ( hH ) 
from his or her Tavern if possible. If an opponent has more than 
1 Cleric, you cannot force that player to remove additional Clerics 
with this card.
An Intrigue card can be an attack, a utility, or a Mandatory Quest. 
Take 1 face-up 
Quest card and 
draw 1 Intrigue 
card.
Discard the face-up 
Quest cards from 
the available Quests. 
Draw and place 4 
new Quest cards 
from the Quest deck, 
and then take 1 of 
the new face-up 
Quest cards.

Intrigue type
Quest type
Reward
Required resources
Attack: Attack cards hinder or penalize opponents, often helping 
you in the process. For example, Lack of Faith is an attack that 
removes another player’s Cleric.
Utility: These cards do something beneficial. For example, Call in 
a Favor lets you take resources of your choice from the supply. 
Mandatory Quest: You can force an opponent to undertake 
a minor but pressing task before finishing other Quests. 
See “Mandatory Quests” on page 11 for more information.
2. Reassign Agent: After all Agents have been assigned in the 
round, each player with an Agent in Waterdeep Harbor reassigns 
that Agent to another action space. In effect, that player takes an 
additional turn with that Agent. 
Players reassign Agents in order, starting with the action space 
numbered “1.” You cannot reassign an Agent to Waterdeep 
Harbor.
Some game effects also allow players to reassign Agents 
during play.
Complete Quest
After assigning an Agent, you may complete one Quest. Each 
Quest card specifies how many and what kind of Adventurers 
are needed to complete it. Often you need to spend Gold as well.
You don’t have to complete a Quest if you don’t want to. 
You cannot complete more than one Quest on your turn.
To complete a Quest, remove the required Adventurers and Gold 
from your Tavern. Return those tokens to the supply. Then collect 
the specified reward.
Regardless of how many Agents you assign or reassign on your 
turn, you can complete only one Quest that turn.
Reward: A completed Quest provides a reward to the player 
who completes it, shown on the “Reward” line. Rewards usually 
include VP and might include other things, such as Adventurers, 
Gold, or cards. If a reward includes Adventurers or Gold, take 
the appropriate pieces from the supply and place them in your 
For example, Spy on the House of Light grants a reward of 6 VP 
and 6 Gold. You immediately collect the Gold and advance your 
score marker 6 spaces along the scoring track as soon as you 
complete the Quest. 
Quests provide a reward just once, when you complete 
them. After you collect the reward, turn the Quest card face down 
and place it on the “Completed Quests” area of your player mat.
Mandatory Quests 
Some Intrigue cards are Mandatory Quests, which you play on 
opponents to hinder their plans.
When you play an Intrigue card with a Mandatory Quest, choose 
an opponent and place the card face up in front of that player. 
That player cannot complete any other Quests until he or she has 
completed the Mandatory Quest.
Plot Quests have ongoing effects in addition to providing rewards. 
For example, Recover the Magister’s Orb has a one-time reward of 
6 VP. However, it also grants an ongoing effect: Once per round, 
you can assign 1 Agent to a space containing an opponent’s Agent.
You can quickly identify a Plot Quest by looking at the name on 
its card. The name of a Plot Quest is a different color from those of 
ordinary Quest cards.
When you complete a Plot Quest, place its card face up near your 
player mat to remind you of the ongoing effect.
End of Round
When all Agents at Waterdeep Harbor have been reassigned, the 
round ends. 
At the end of the round, all players return all their Agents to their 
pools. The player with the First Player marker begins the next 
round.
Ending the Game
The game ends after 8 rounds of play. At the end of the eighth 
round, perform final scoring for each player.
Each player counts up VP and advances his or her scoring marker 
accordingly.
Each Adventurer in your Tavern	
Every 2 Gold in your Tavern 
(rounding down)	
Lord card	
	
As specified by the card
The player with the most VP after final scoring is the winner. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the most Gold wins.
Reading a Quest Card
Quest Type: There are five different types of Quests: Arcana, 
Commerce, Piety, Skullduggery, and Warfare. A Quest’s type 
provides an idea of what sort of Adventurers are most important 
to completing it.
	
Quest Type	
Adventurer
	
Arcana	
Wizard
	
Piety	
Cleric
	
Skullduggery	
Rogue
	
Warfare	
Fighter
	
Commerce	
Any + Gold
Different Lords of Waterdeep score bonus VP for completing 
Quests of particular types. For example, Khelben Arunsun scores 
4 bonus VP for each Arcana Quest and each Warfare Quest that 
player completes.
Requires: Each Quest card requires certain resources (Adven-
turers and Gold) to complete, shown on the “Requires” line by 
symbols.
 hH	 Cleric
 hH	 Fighter
 hH Rogue
 hH Wizard
 gG	
 Gold
For example, Spy on the House of Light requires 3 Fighters 
(hHhHhH), 2 Rogues (hHhH), and 2 Gold ( gG gG ) 
to complete. 
Plot Quests 
A few Quests have the notation “Plot Quest,” which indicates that 
they are especially important to successfully managing Waterdeep. 
For example, Stamp Out Cultists requires 1 Cleric, 1 Fighter, and 
1 Rogue to complete and provides a reward of 2 VP.
When a Mandatory Quest is completed, place the card in the 
Intrigue discard pile. 

Appendix 1: Buildings
This section lists the various Buildings that players can assign 
their Agents to. The game board has nine basic Buildings, and ten 
additional spaces are provided for Buildings that players purchase 
during the game.
Basic Buildings
These Buildings are always available to assign Agents to (as long as 
they have unoccupied action spaces).
Builder’s Hall
The headquarters for the Guild of Stonecut-
ters, Masons, Potters, & Tile-makers is the 
first stop for anyone wishing to add to the 
great city of Waterdeep.
Start of Round: Place 1 VP token from 
the rounds track on each Building tile 
available for purchase.
Action: Choose 1 Building, pay its 
cost in Gold, and put it into play under 
your control. (Place one of your control 
markers on the Building tile to identify 
the owner.) Score any VP for the newly 
purchased Building. Then draw a new 
Building tile and place it face up in the 
vacated space.
Castle Waterdeep
This mighty stronghold on top of Mount 
Waterdeep can be seen from nearly every 
corner of the city.
Action: Take the First Player marker, 
and draw 1 Intrigue card.
Aurora’s Realms Shop
Aurora’s Realms Shops acquire goods from 
every corner of Faerûn. This branch is just 
one of six in the city. 
Action: Take 4 Gold ( gGgGgGgG ) 
from the supply and place it in your 
Blackstaff Tower
Blackstaff Tower is home to the archmage 
Khelben Blackstaff and his apprentices.
Action: Take 1 Wizard ( hH ) from the 
Field of Triumph
Exciting spectacles of martial skill are staged 
in this enormous open-air stadium.
Action: Take 2 Fighters ( hHhH ) from 
the supply and place them in 
The Grinning 
Lion Tavern
This tavern is adorned with battle trophies 
from all ends of Faerûn, but every one is a 
fake.
Action: Take 2 Rogues ( hH hH ) from 
the supply and place them in your 
The Plinth
This needle-like tower is home to those faiths 
without the congregation to support an 
independent temple.
Action: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) from the 
Waterdeep Harbor
Waterdeep gets both its name and its wealth 
from this deep-water basin.
Action: Play 1 Intrigue card from 
your hand.
Reassign Agent: After all Agents have 
been assigned in the round, each player 
with an Agent in Waterdeep Harbor 
reassigns that Agent to another action 
space. Start with the Agent in the ac-
tion space numbered “1,” and proceed 
in numerical order.
Cliffwatch Inn
The proprietor of this rambling tavern 
knows a wealth of tales. The inn’s cellars are 
rumored to connect to the city sewers and 
Undermountain.
Action: Take 1 face-up Quest card from 
Cliffwatch Inn. As well, take 2 Gold 
(gGgG ) from the supply and place it in 
Action: Take 1 face-up Quest card 
from Cliffwatch Inn, and draw 
1 Intrigue card.
Action: Discard all the face-up Quest 
cards from Cliffwatch Inn. Draw new 
Quests from the Quest deck, and 
place them face up in the open spaces. 
Then take 1 face-up Quest card from 
Cliffwatch Inn. 
Advanced Buildings
The 24 Building tiles represent advanced Buildings that players 
can purchase. Up to 3 Building tiles are face-up and available for 
purchase at Builder’s Hall at any time. 
Each Building description includes some background informa-
tion, including the city Ward in which it is traditionally located. 
This location does not restrict where you can place the Building 
tile on the game board.
Owner: When a player other than the owner assigns an Agent to 
this Building, the owner immediately gains the benefit stated on 
the “Owner” line. Place any Adventurers or Gold gained in this 
way in the owner’s Tavern.
Caravan Court
Caravans arrive frequently at this open-air plaza, 
and with them able-bodied warriors looking for 
work.
Place 2 Fighters ( hHhH ) on this space.
Action: Take all Fighters ( hH ) from this 
Owner: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ) from the 

Dragon Tower
The secretive wizard Maaril lives in this 
sinister tower.
Action: Take 1 Wizard ( hH ) from the 
supply and place it in your Tavern, and draw 
1 Intrigue card.
Owner: Draw 1 Intrigue card.
Fetlock Court
Just north of Castle Waterdeep, this courtyard 
is a staging area for the City Guard’s mounted 
patrols as well as an impromptu concert hall for 
practicing bards. 
Action: Take 2 Fighters ( hHhH ) and 
1 Wizard ( hH ) from the supply and place 
them in your Tavern.
Owner: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ) or 1 Wizard 
The Golden Horn
In this gambling hall, the grand prize is a golden 
horn filled with mysterious riches.
Take 4 Gold (gGgGgGgG ) from the supply 
and place it on this space.
Action: Take all Gold (gG ) from this space 
and place it in your Tavern.
Helmstar Warehouse
This seemingly legitimate business is home to 
one of the most successful fences in Waterdeep, 
Chuldan Helmstar.
Action: Take 2 Rogues ( hH hH ) and 2 Gold 
(gGgG ) from the supply and place them in 
Owner: Take 1 Rogue ( hH ) from the supply 
and place it in your Tavern.
House of Wonder
This ornate tower is dedicated to Mystra, the 
goddess of magic.
Action: Spend 2 Gold (gGgG ), and 
then take 2 Adventurers from the supply 
and place them in your Tavern. These 
Adventurers can be only Clerics ( hH ) or 
Wizards ( hH ). 
Jesters’ Court
Once a place where jugglers and comics 
performed, this alley between the Street of Silks 
and the Street of Silver has taken a more 
dangerous turn. 
Place 2 Rogues ( hH hH ) on this space.
Action: Take all Rogues ( hH ) from this 
Owner: Take 1 Rogue ( hH ) from the 
New Olamn
This college is one of the best places to learn the 
bardic arts and is famous throughout the Sword 
Coast.
Action: Take 2 Rogues ( hH hH ) and 1 
Wizard ( hH ) from the supply and place 
them in your Tavern. 
Owner: Take 1 Rogue ( hH ) or 1 Wizard 
Northgate
All trade between Waterdeep and the mining 
town of Mirabar inevitably flows through the 
Northgate. 
Action: Take 1 Adventurer of any type 
( hH
? ) and 2 Gold (gGgG ) from the supply 
and place them in your Tavern.
Heroes’ Garden
You can always find adventurers in this public 
park, retelling the stories of their exploits.
Action: Take 1 face-up Quest card from 
Cliffwatch Inn. You may immediately 
complete that Quest. If you do, you score 4 
bonus VP in addition to the Quest reward. 
(You do not score the bonus VP if you 
complete the Quest later on.)
House of Good Spirits
The rumors of a hidden dragon’s hoard draws 
adventurers to this inn, but they stay for the 
drinks.
Action: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ) and one 
Adventurer of any type ( hH
? ) from the 
supply and place them in your Tavern. 
Owner: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ) from the 
House of Heroes
The largest shrine in Waterdeep is dedicated to 
Tempus, the Lord of Battle.
Action: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) and 2 Fighters 
( hHhH ) from the supply and place them in 
Owner: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) or 1 Fighter 
House of the Moon
This gilded temple attracts pilgrims in search of 
Selûne’s grace and power.
Action: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) from the supply 
and place it in your Tavern, and take 1 face-
up Quest card from Cliffwatch Inn.

The Palace of Waterdeep
This white marble palace stands as a shining 
symbol of the Lords’ Rule and is home to many 
embassies.
Action: Take the Ambassador piece and 
place it with your unused Agents. At the 
start of the next round, before any other 
player takes a turn, assign the Ambassador. 
See “Advanced Buildings” on page 22 for 
further clarifications. 
The Skulkway
Smugglers used this short alleyway to move goods 
under the noses of the City Guard.
Action: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ), 1 Rogue ( hH ), 
and 2 Gold (gGgG ) from the supply and 
place them in your Tavern. 
Owner: Take 1 Fighter ( hH ) or 1 Rogue 
Smuggler’s Dock
This is the private dock of the suspected Lord of 
Waterdeep, Mirt the Moneylender. 
Action: Spend 2 Gold (gGgG ), and 
then take 4 Adventurers from the supply 
and place them in your Tavern. These 
Adventurers can be only Fighters ( hH ) or 
Rogues (hH ). 
Spires of the Morning
Eight golden spires adorn this walled garden 
temple dedicated to the god of the dawn.
Place 1 Cleric ( hH ) on this space.
Action: Take all Clerics ( hH ) from this 
The Stone House
The home of the Carpenters’, Roofers’, and Plaist-
erers’ Guild, which has grown extremely rich from 
nobles’ efforts to upstage their neighbors’ villas.
Action: Take 1 Gold (gG ) from the supply 
for each Building tile in play.
The Three Pearls
This expensive nightclub is named for its original 
purchase price: three black pearls torn from a 
dancer’s outfit.
Action: Return 2 of your Adventurers of any 
type ( hH
? ) to the supply. Then take 3 
Adventurers of any type ( hH
? ) from 
the supply and place them in your Tavern.
The Tower of Luck
Donations to Tymora from those who survived 
the depths of Undermountain quickly paid for the 
construction of this temple. 
Action: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) and 2 Rogues 
( hH hH ) from the supply and place them in 
Owner: Take 1 Cleric ( hH ) or 1 Rogue ( hH ) 
from the supply and place it in your Tavern.
Tower of the Order
This impressive structure is the headquarters of 
the Watchful Order of Magists & Protectors.
Place 1 Wizard ( hH ) on this space.
Action: Take all Wizards ( hH ) from this 
Owner: Draw 1 Intrigue card.
The Waymoot
Simply speak your destination to this sign and the 
way will be shown to you. 
Place 3 VP tokens on this space.
Action: Remove all VP tokens from this 
space and score that many VP, and take 1 
face-up Quest card from Cliffwatch Inn.
The Yawning Portal
This famous inn, featuring the only known public 
entry to Undermountain, attracts adventurers of 
every sort.
Action: Take 2 Adventurers of any type 
( hH
? ) from the supply and place them 
in your Tavern.
Owner: Take 1 Adventurer of any type ( hH
? ) 
from the supply and place it in your Tavern.
The Zoarstar
The Zoarstar houses the Scriveners’, Scribes’, and 
Clerks’ Guild, and is a destination for anyone 
needing contracts or other documents.
Action: Choose a space containing an 
opponent’s Agent. You use that space’s 
action as though you had assigned an 
Agent to it.

Appendix 2: Agents
The Lords of Waterdeep employ Agents of various organizations 
to accomplish their ends. These Agents correspond to player 
colors in the game.
Waterdeep is defended by its own army 
of soldiers, who patrol the city and the 
surrounding countryside. The City Guard 
also provides bodyguards for Piergeiron the 
Paladinson and for visiting dignitaries.
The Harpers were founded ages ago by elven 
leaders, with the counsel of the legendary 
wizard Elminster. This secret society fights 
for individual freedom while balancing 
the needs of civilization and nature. 
Posing as a consortium of merchants and 
nobles, the Knights of the Shield in fact 
deal in information. The organization’s 
influence stretches along the Sword Coast 
and far inland.
Vigilantes who protect the poorest parts of 
Waterdeep, the Red Sashes are masters of 
intrigue. They hide those who need to escape 
and find those who wish to stay hidden.
These devoted champions of the moon goddess, Selûne, tirelessly 
work for freedom and peace, even between longstanding enemies. 
They despise slavery and abhor the undead.

Appendix 3: 
Lords of Waterdeep
The Lords of Waterdeep form a secret council that has ruled the 
city of Waterdeep for centuries. In public, they are always masked 
and cloaked to disguise any details that could identify them. 
They are drawn from all elements of society: merchants, nobles, 
wizards, and common laborers. 
In the Lords of Waterdeep game, these secret masters are repre-
sented by cards. The Lords’ identities are kept hidden until the 
end of the game, when final scoring occurs. Each Lord of Water-
deep has a personal agenda, represented by bonus VP awarded 
for completing specific objectives. 

Glossary
Here’s a short list of words and phrases that have special 
meanings in the Lords of Waterdeep game.
action space: Each Building has one or more action spaces to 
which players assign their Agents. When you assign an Agent to 
an action space, you immediately take the specified action.
Adventurer: You complete Quests by taking the required 
Adventurers from your Tavern. There are four kinds of 
Adventurers, represented by wooden cubes: Clerics, Fighters, 
Rogues, and Wizards.
Agent: You assign your Agents to action spaces of Buildings to use 
their effects. See “Assign Agent” on page 8.
Ambassador: A special Agent that you can use by assigning an 
Agent to the Palace of Waterdeep.
assign: You assign an Agent by placing it on an Building’s action 
space. See “Assign Agent” on page 8.
attack: A kind of Intrigue card that harms other players. 
See “Play Intrigue Card” on page 9.
Building/Building tile: The game board contains nine basic 
Buildings, and players can purchase other Building tiles and put 
them into play. Buildings contain action spaces to which Agents 
are assigned. See “Buildings” on page 6.
card: The Lords of Waterdeep game includes three different types 
of cards: Intrigue, Lord, and Quest. See “Cards” on page 7.
	
Intrigue card: You draw an Intrigue card by assigning an 	
	
	
Agent to Castle Waterdeep. (Other game effects also allow you 	
	
to draw Intrigue cards.) You play an Intrigue card by assigning 	
	
an Agent to Waterdeep Harbor.
	
Lord card: Each player takes the role of a Lord of Waterdeep, 	 	
	
represented by a Lord card. The Lord’s identity remains secret 	
	
until the end of the game. Each Lord card grants bonus VP for 	
	
accomplishing certain tasks.
	
Quest card: These cards represent Quests that players 
	
complete to score VP and earn other rewards. At the start 	
	
	
of the game, there are 4 face-up Quest cards in Cliffwatch Inn, 	
	
which players can take by assigning Agents to that Building. 	 	
	
More Quests enter play as the game progresses.
Gold: You spend Gold to purchase Buildings, complete certain 
Quests, and pay for other game effects.
Lieutenant: A special Agent that you add to your pool by com-
pleting the Recruit Lieutenant Quest.
occupied/unoccupied: A space that has an Agent assigned to 
it is occupied. You cannot normally assign another Agent to an 
occupied space. You must choose an unoccupied space (one that 
contains no other Agents).
pool: The area where you keep your unassigned Agents. At the 
end of the round, all your Agents return to your pool.
Quest: You complete Quests to score Victory Points and to 
earn other rewards during the game. See “Complete Quest” on 
page 10.
	
active Quest: All face-up Quests in front of a player that the 	
	
	
player has not yet completed are active Quests.
	
Mandatory Quest: A kind of Intrigue card that forces another 		
	
player to complete a minor but pressing Quest before any 
	
others. 
	
Plot Quest: A kind of Quest that provides an ongoing benefit 	 	
	
as well as a reward.
reassign: After all Agents have been assigned in a round, any 
Agents that were assigned to Waterdeep Harbor are removed 
and assigned to any unoccupied action spaces. See “Waterdeep 
Harbor” on page 9.
reward: Upon completing a Quest, you earn the reward 
specified on the card. Quest rewards usually include VP and 
can also include other benefits. You earn the reward immediately 
and only once.
round: The game is played over eight rounds. During each round, 
players take turns assigning their Agents to action spaces on the 
game board and completing Quests.
supply: The supply contains Adventurers, Gold, and VP tokens 
available to players.
Tavern: This area holds the Adventurers you have hired until you 
use them to complete Quests. You also store Gold in your Tavern.
turn: During each round, players take turns. Whoever has the 
First Player marker goes first, then the player to his or her left, 
and so on. During your turn, you assign an Agent to an action 
space and may complete a Quest. See “Actions in a Turn” 
on page 8.
utility: A kind of Intrigue card that helps you. See “Play Intrigue 
Card” on page 9.
Victory Points (VP): You score Victory Points primarily by 
completing Quests. Other game effects can also provide VP.
Appendix 4: Clarifications
The following clarifications address certain unusual cases that 
may come up in a game.
Advanced Buildings
Heroes’ Garden: You cannot complete the Quest drawn at this 
Building if you have an uncompleted Mandatory Quest.
The Palace of Waterdeep: If you assign the Ambassador to 
Waterdeep Harbor, you cannot reassign it at the end of the round. 
(This restriction avoids memory issues.)
When you assign an Agent to the Palace of Waterdeep, the Am-
bassador might already be assigned to an action space. If so, you 
take the Ambassador from the assigned action space. This makes 
the action space originally occupied by the Ambassador available 
for assigning an Agent.
If another player assigns an Agent to the Palace of Waterdeep 
after you have taken the Ambassador but before you have had a 
chance to assign it, he or she gains no benefit from that action.
You assign the Ambassador before any other player, even if you 
have the First Player marker. In that event, you assign the Ambas-
sador and then immediately assign another Agent.
If the Palace of Waterdeep leaves play, the Ambassador also leaves 
play. (This can make an action space available for assigning an 
Agent.)
Once placed, the Ambassador counts as an opponent’s Agent for 
all players. You do not gain the owner benefit for assigning the 
Ambassador to a Building you control.
The Zoarstar: When you assign an Agent to an occupied action 
space in Waterdeep Harbor, you reassign your Agent immediately 
after the opponent’s Agent in the shared space is reassigned.
Quests
Recover the Magister’s Orb: When you assign an Agent to an 
occupied action space in Waterdeep Harbor, you reassign your 
Agent immediately after the opponent’s Agent in the shared space 
is reassigned.
Recruit Lieutenant: The Lieutenant counts as one of your 
Agents.
Research Chronomancy: If you complete this Quest after 
reassigning an Agent from Waterdeep Harbor, you immediately 
assign the returned Agent. You cannot assign that Agent to 
Waterdeep Harbor.
Intrigue Cards
Change of Plans: You must discard one of your own uncom-
pleted Quests. Other players who choose to discard uncompleted 
Quests for VP must choose one of their own.
Sample Wares: If a second Sample Wares card is played in the 
same turn, the second Agent cannot be assigned to a Building in 
Builder’s Hall that already has an Agent on it.
If someone purchases a Building that has an Agent assigned to 
it by this card, the purchased Building’s action space remains 
occupied until that Agent is removed. 
Questions? 
U.S., Canada, Asia Pacific, & Latin America 
www.wizards.com/customerservice 
Wizards of the Coast LLC 
P.O. Box 707 
Renton WA 98057-0707 
U.S.A. 
Tel: 1-800-324-6496 (within the U.S.) 
1-425-204-8069 (outside the U.S.) 
 
U.K., Eire, & South Africa 
wizards@hasbro.co.uk 
Wizards of the Coast LLC 
c/o Hasbro UK Ltd. 
P.O. Box 43, Newport NP19 4YD 
UK
Tel: + 44(0)84 57 125 599
All Other European Countries 
custserv@hasbro.be 
Wizards of the Coast 
p/a Hasbro Belgium NV/SA 
Industrialaan 1, 1702 Groot-Bijgaarden 
BELGIUM 
Tel: +32(0)70 233 277 
Please retain these addresses for future reference.
Storage Diagram
Place rulebook on top 
of game board
Place folded game board 
on top of all components
All player mats 
go on top of all 
faction components
Place Quest Cards on top 
of First Player marker
Place Lord cards on top of 
advanced Building tiles 
Place Intrigue cards 
on top of Ambassador and 
Lieutenant markers

Lay out the game board.
Each player chooses a color and takes a number of that 
color’s Agents that depends on the number of players.
	 Number of Players	
Agents per Player
	
	
	
	
Each player also places 1 more Agent of his or her color near 
the Round 5 space of the rounds track.
Each player places his or her score marker on the scoring 
track at the position labeled “0.”
Place the Adventurer cubes and Gold within easy reach of 
all players.
Place the Building stack, Quest deck, and Intrigue deck in 
the appropriate spaces of the gameboard.
Draw 3 Building tiles and place them face up in each of the 
3 spaces in Builder’s Hall.
Each player takes a player mat.
Deal 1 Lord card face down to each player.
Deal 2 Quest cards face up to each player. Then place 1 
face-up Quest card in each of the 4 spaces of Cliffwatch Inn.
Deal 2 Intrigue cards face down to each player.
Place 3 VP tokens on each space of the rounds track.
The player who has most recently been to another city goes 
first. Give that player the First Player marker.
The starting player gets 4 Gold. Each player receives 1 
more Gold than the player to his or her right until all play-
ers have received starting Gold.
At the start of each round, remove the VP tokens from that 
space of the rounds track and add 1 VP token to each face-
up Building in Builders’ Hall. Then resolve any start-of-
round effects on Buildings in play.
(If this is the fifth round of play, each player gains one ad-
ditional Agent, located near the Round 5 space.)
Each player takes turns, one at a time, starting with the 
player who has the First Player marker and proceeding to 
that player’s left.
When all the Agents have been assigned (and possibly 
reassigned from Waterdeep Harbor; see below), the round 
ends. All players’ Agents return to their pools. 
The game ends after 8 rounds of play. At the end of the 
eighth round, perform final scoring for each player.
During your turn, if you have Agents available to assign, 
you take one or both of the following actions.
	
1. Assign Agent
	
2. Complete Quest
Assign Agent: Place 1 Agent from your pool on an unoccu-
pied action space of a Building. You cannot skip your turn if 
you have Agents available to assign.
If you have no Agents left to assign, you cannot take a turn. 
Play proceeds to the next player until all Agents have been 
assigned.
Reassign Agent: After all Agents have been assigned in 
the round, each player with an Agent in Waterdeep Harbor 
reassigns that Agent to another action space. 
Players reassign Agents in order, starting with the action 
space numbered “1.”
Complete Quest: After assigning or reassigning an Agent, 
you may complete one Quest by paying specified numbers 
and types of Adventurers and Gold.
At the end of the game, each player counts up VP and 
advances his or her scoring marker accordingly.
Each Adventurer in your Tavern	
Every 2 Gold in your Tavern 
(rounding down)	
Lord card	
	
As specified by the card
The player with the most VP after final scoring is the winner. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the most Gold wins.
Rules Reference
These instructions summarize the game setup and the sequence of play.