LOST WORLDS
This book represents a character in the LOST
WORLDS combat book games and is playable
with all other LOST WORLDS books. Each book
is unique and has its own special advantages and
weaknesses. You must have two books to play a
game.
COMPONENTS
Booklet: On each page of the book are two parch-
ments. The larger parchment is a picture, and the
smaller a data box.
Character Card: A player picks his combat moves
from this card, while at the top of the card are
listed the character’s body points, special abili-
ties, and basic equipment. The column headed PG
is what page you initially turn to if you pick this
move. The X column is only if you are fighting
multiple opponents (see rules below). MOD is the
number of points you add or subtract from the total
if you end up on a “score” page. An “S” means
there is a special result.
Fantasy Cards: Special cards, randomly selected,
that allow for special situations.
HOW TO PLAY
Each player must have a book and a character card
to play. Pick a book to play. Do the following steps
simultaneously wiith your opponent.
1) Remove the Character Card.(CC)
2) Swap books with opponent. (Keep your CC)
3) Open his book to page/picture #57
Note: You see your opponent at extended range
(XRange) preparing to attack, and below him are
instructions for his next move. Note also that odd
numbered pages are at the top, and even numbered
pages are at the bottom.
4) Read instructions to opponent.
Note: on the first turn you will direct each other
to: “Do only XRange next turn”
5) Choose a move from your CC.
Note: On the first turn you were informed to do
only XRange, so choose any XRange move you
desire.
6) Turn to that page # in the book. (remember
even numbers are at the bottom)
7) Tell your opponent the page number that you
have just turned to (always an even number)
8) Here is the tricky part. Look at the numbers at
the bottom of YOUR page that you just turned to
for your move. Find the number that YOUR OP-
PONENT just told you. To the right of that num-
ber should be an ODD number that tells you what
page to turn to in order to get the result. When
you turn to that page, you should see a picture of
your opponent doing his move, whatever it was,
or of you getting a hit on him.
9) You score a hit if “SCORE” appears in the pic-
ture.
10) Add the # beneath “SCORE” to the damage
modifier (MOD) found on the CC by your move.
11) If the result is greater than zero, that’s how
many points your opponent subtracts from his
body points.
12) If opponent’s body points are now zero or less,
he is unconscious and you have won the game. If
his total is -5 or less, he has died. Otherwise go to
step 13. (If you are both negative, the smaller num-
ber wakes up first and wins. If you are both -5 or
worse, you killed each other, and there is no win-
ner.)
13) Read the instructions below the picture to your
opponent. (i.e. tell opponent: “Do no Red next
turn”)
14) Return to step 5, and choose your next move.
(Keeping in mind your opponent’s instructions)
IMPORTANT!
Do XRange ONLY when instructed.
HEIGHT
Prior to combat compare opponent’s height to your
own. The taller character adds +1 to damage modi-
fiers for Red moves.
CRITICAL HITS
Some solid hits can score critical damage. When
on a Score page with critical hits, and your modi-
fied score is equal to or greater than the number
listed, then include the ‘CRITICAL’ restructions
when reading to your opponent.
VICTORY AND ADVANCEMENT
When you defeat an opponent you score victory
points equal to your opponent’s body points.
When your victory points equal 5 times your own
body points, you may add +1 to your body pts,
and +1 to any ability or modifier. No ability or
modifier can be more than double its starting
amount. Negative modifiers cannot be increased.
Treat scrolls and spells as abilities)
ESCAPE
If your opponent escapes, you earn victory points
equal to 1/2 your opponent’s body points, but your
opponent’s character will gain a victory point.
DUNGEON PARTY RULES
Players may use these rules to run more than one
character at a time. Choose a hero to lead off the
combat. Start playing as if in a standard game.
 During play your opponent must include the Party
Rules symbols when reading to you your “Tell
opponent” restrictions. (P) means “Partner may
step in,” allowing you to change to another char-
acter in your party. Select your next maneuver
from the new character’s card and keep the cur-
rent character’s restrictions. (P*) means “Partner
may attempt to fire or throw, even if precluded by
color restrictions”. Therefor an archer or a spell
user may perform a missile or throw move from
his character card for the coming turn.. Score dam-
age on the party member making the maneuver/
move.More about party rules on the webpage at
www.lostworlds.com
MULTI-PLAYER RULES
One player may fight several players. That is, 1
on 2 or 1 on 3 or even 1 on 4. Remember that all
players must have their opponent’s book, so when
fighting 3 opponents you need to hand out 3 books
of your character, while holding their 3 books, and
adopt the following rules:
1) When given multiple restrictions, do the most
restrictive.
2) Do the same move in each book.
3) When fighting opponents at both close and
XRange, select a maneuver from close range first,
then give the XRange player the “X” column’s
number on your character card.
(To fight 2 on 2 you divide into two separate 1 on
1 combats. At least one side must always be one
character.)
FANTASY CARDS
Represent special abilities and items which a char-
acter acquires during his career. LW characters
have specific weapons that can be enhanced by
Item Cards and most characters start with at least
one basic Ability (Tactics, Luck, Spells, Scrolls).
The Ability is noted on each book’s character card
and is rated in points. These points are spent in
selecting cards. (ie if you have 12 purple magic
points, you may select any number of purple spell
cards whose total is no more than 12). All cards
are selected prior to battle. Random cards come
with each book and more may be purchased in
other Lost Worlds products. You may select abil-
ity and item cards as noted on the cc.
CARD TYPES
TACTIC: Fighting techniques that a character has
learned from a master. Used once per combat.
SPELL: Spells of various colors that magic users
can cast. Reveal one of your choice when directed
by your opponent reading “your “Tell Opponent”
restrictions. Each used once per combat.
LUCK: An inexplicable event that alters conse-
quences. Used once per combat.
SCROLL: Published magic, read by a scholar,
which affects all combatants. Once per combat.
ITEMS: Good stuff, divided into several catego-
ries, which your character may bring into battle.
Their conditions last as long as the item is in use.
Weapons: Use if listed on character card.
General Items: Are limited only by logic. For in-
stance, rings for characters with fingers. Boots for
characters with feet, etc.
Campaign: Represent experience gained in battle.
READING, Tell Opponent “...”
1. If directed to go to another page, or told to re-
veal an ability card, then dissregard the score and
restrictions on the previous page and follow the
directions on the new page or card.
2. If modifier is “S” and you receive no “if on a
score page” instruction, then do not score but read
the pages restrictions to your opponent.
Check our website at www.lostworlds.com
The following characters (and more) can be pur-
chased directly from our website, or you can mail
a check to Flying Buffalo Inc, PO Box 1467,
Scottsdale, AZ 85252 USA. Include $3 for post-
age, $8 for overseas postage:
Centaur with axe $5.95
Cold Drake (dragon) $7.50
Dwarf with warhammer $8.95
Man in chainmail w/sword & shield $5.95
Man with sword and dagger $5.95
Manticore $5.95
Mummy with mace $5.95
Skeleton with sword and shield $5.95
Ultra Sorceress with dagger $8.95
Unicorn $7.50
Woman with Quarterstaff $5.95
Woman in chainmail with axe $8.95
Winged gargoyle with sword $5.95
Wraith $7.50
Game Created by Alfred Leonardi
Designers & Developers: Mary Leonardi, Dennis Greci,
William Fortin.
Copyright Alfred Leonardi 1997