A game for 2–4 players 
Ages 14 and up
50–100 Minutes
On the wave-battered coast of the North Sea, hard-working 
folk make a living by the sweat of their brow. Under constant 
threat of storm and flood, communities rally together to 
build dikes that keep the rising tide at bay. But every citizen 
constructing a dike is one fewer citizen tending flocks and 
maintaining the family farm. The residents are torn between 
selflessness and self-interest, and only those who can strike 
this delicate balance can thrive in the harsh landscape.
&
This seal signifies that Uwe Rosenberg recommends this 
game for fans of his work. Uwe Rosenberg himself studied 
this game and contributed during the development process.
This seal signifies that Uwe Rosenberg recommends this 
game for fans of his work. Uwe Rosenberg himself studied 
this game and contributed during the development process.
C
L
L
C
T
I
N
U
W
 
R
S
N
B
R
G

• 1 Main Board
• 1 Farmyard Board 
Sunny and rainy sides
• 1 Income 
Board
• 2 Sheep Market Boards 
1 doublesided
• 1 Reference 
Sheet
• 16 Facilities	
• 30 Buildings:
	 	
	
12 Action buildings 	
12 Sheep Buildings 	
6 Storm Surge Buildings
• 30 Dike Breach Tokens
• 1 First Player Marker
• 85 Sheep
• 6 3-sheep 
• 36 Flood 
Pieces
• 13 Dike Segments 
(3x 4 spaces long, 
4 x 3 spaces long, 
6 x 2 spaces long)
• 5 Progress 
• 4 Farmer +2 
• 53 Coins 
(27x 1, 
14x 5, 
12x 10)
• 1 Sticker 
Sheet
• 1 Scorepad
• 1 Appendix 
(4 pages with detailed 
explanations of the 
farm expansion tiles 
and progress tokens)
In each player color:
• 1 Dike Point 
• 3 Farmers
• 4 Building 
Markers
• 12 Flood Cards 
(2x 1, 2, 3, 5, 3x 4, 1x 6)
Take the sticker sheet and attach one sticker with a 
2, one with a 3, and one with a 4 to different farmers 
of each color. 
Assemble the 
first player 
marker.
The winner in Lowlands will be the player who scores the most victory points (VP). Housing sheep and building the dike will both 
provide VP, though their values will change over the course of the game. The changing values are shown on the value track on the 
main board. You will also get VP for coins (1 VP per coin), remaining resource cards (1 VP per two cards), and the farm expansions 
you build over the course of the game (VP shown on tile).
• 66 Resource Cards 
(22x wood, clay, stone)
• 3 Resource Markers 
(1x wood, clay, stone)
• 1 Phase Marker
Name
! Farm Expansions
Dike Points
Buildings / Features
Coins
Resource Cards
Total
• 1 Value Marker
• 2 Laborers
• 64 Fences
Goal of the Game
Before Your First Game
Player Components (1 set per player; 4 total)
Components
Shared Components
• 46 Farm Expansion Tiles:

1 	Place the main board in the middle of the 
table.
2 	Shuffle all the flood cards 
together and place them facedown 
on the shown space of the main 
board to create the flood deck. 
Note: For your first game, return 
the flood card showing “6” to the 
box before creating the deck.
3 	Each player chooses a color. Stack the 
dike point markers of the chosen colors 
in a random order on the first space of 
the dike track (0 dike points). Return 
any unused dike point markers to the box.
4 	Randomly place one progress token 
faceup on each of the the first five 
large spaces of the dike track.
5 	Place the value marker on the 
middle space of the value track.
6 	Place the phase marker on the first 
space of the phase track (“Turn of 
the Tide” 
). 
7 	Shuffle the resource cards 
and place them facedown on 
the shown space of the main 
board to create the resource 
deck. Draw four cards and 
place them faceup on different 
spaces of the resource display.
8 	Place the sheep market board that matches 
the number of players (shown by a number 
of dots in the top-right) next to the game 
board.
9 	Place the three resource 
markers on the shown spaces 
on the sheep market board.
10	Place one sheep on each space of 
the sheep market board showing 
a sheep icon. Return the other sheep market 
board to the box.
11	Sort the farm expansion tiles 
(buildings and features) into four 
stacks according to their backs. Shuffle 
each stack separately and place the 
stacks next to the main board. Draw 
three tiles each from the feature, sheep 
building, and action building stacks 
and place them faceup in columns 
below their respective stacks. Draw 
storm surge tiles equal to the number 
of players plus one and place them 
faceup in a column next to the other 
columns. Return the remaining storm 
storm surge tiles to the box; they will 
not be used this game.
12	Place all coins, sheep, 3-sheep tokens, 
flood pieces, dike segments, dike 
breach tokens, and farmer +2 tokens 
near the board as a supply. Set the 
scorepad aside; you will not need it 
until the storm surge phase.
The sheep market board setup for four 
players. The number of player matches 
the number of dots in the top-right 
corner of the board.
Sea Spaces
Flood Spaces
Dike Spaces
Dike Track
Progress Token
Phase 
Track
Phase 
Value Track
Resource display
Resource 
Discard Pile
Resource Deck
Flood Deck
Dike 
Point 
Value Marker
Feature
Action
Storm Surge
Building
Setup (Shared)
Construction Yard 
Track

Each player gathers the following components:
• 1 random farmyard board
Place your farmyard board in front of you with the side of your choice faceup (both sides have the same layout). Then place 
your income board and reference sheet faceup next to your farmyard board, and keep your coins and farmers near your farmyard 
board. Return all unused farmyard boards, income boards, reference sheets, farmers, building markers, fences, and laborers to 
the box.
Place your gathered components on your farmyard and income boards as shown:
Some spaces show one or more terrain types: bushes, trees, or lakes.
The player whose dike point marker is on top of the stack is the first player and takes the first player marker. 
Each other player gains one coin from the supply.
The game is divided into phases that are grouped into three stages.
Each of the three stages consists of six phases resolved in the following order:
 Turn of the Tide , I Work , II Upkeep , I Work , II Upkeep , III High Tide 
The position of the phase marker indicates the current phase. At the end of each phase, move the phase marker up one 
space to the next phase.
After playing through all three stages, you will resolve one final phase: the storm surge phase.
You begin the game with the first 
 Turn of the Tide phase.
• 1 income board • 1 reference sheet
• 3 farmers of your 
chosen color (values 
2, 3, and 4)
• 4 building 
markers of 
your chosen 
color
Gezeiten-
wechsel 
I. Arbeit 
II. Verwaltung
III. Hochwasser 
Sturm-
flut
II
I
III
1. Kartenlimit prüfen: max. 8
2. 3 neue Flutkarten auslegen
3. Flutkarte aufdecken
1. Bauern einsetzen
1. Vermehrung der Schafe
2. Einkommen erhalten
3. Rückkehr der Bauern
4. Schafmarkt zurücksetzen
5. Startspielerwechsel?
6. Flutkarte aufdecken
1. Deich prüfen
 - Deich hält: Taler für alle bis auf den letzten Spieler 
 
 Wertanzeiger nach verschieben
 - Deich bricht: Deichbruchmarken für alle bis auf den 1. Spieler
 
 Wertanzeiger nach verschieben
1. Hofausbauten mit ! auswerten
2. Deich prüfen
 - Deich hält: Deichbruchmarken ohne Wirkung abwerfen
 - Deich bricht: pro Deichbruchmarke 1 Schaf abgeben
3. Siegpunkte auszählen
 - Deichpunkte und Schafe (Wertanzeiger)
 - Hofausbauten
 - 1 Siegpunkt pro 1 Taler
 - 1 Siegpunkt pro 2 Baustoffe
• 2 laborers
• 2 sheep
• 4 resource cards 
comprising your 
hand (hidden from 
other players)
(Basic income 
during upkeep)
4 Building 
Markers
10 Fences
(Resource exchange rate)
1 laborer
(Laborer effects)
Each player 
starts with 
1 laborer 
here
Each player starts 
with 6 fences forming 
a pasture which 
 houses 2 sheep.
• 16 fences
• 4 coins
+
(The 5 
action 
spaces)
Setup (Player)
Gameplay

Starting with the first player and proceeding clockwise, 
players take turns placing one of their unplaced farmers on an 
action space on their own farmyard board and resolving the 
corresponding action. Players continue taking turns in this 
order until all farmers have been placed.
You can place a farmer on one of your action spaces that already 
contains one or more farmers; to do so, pay one coin to the 
supply if there is one farmer already on the space or two coins 
if there are already two farmers. If you cannot pay the cost, you 
cannot place the farmer on that space and take that action.
The following rules apply to all actions:
• Resource Substitution: You can always pay two resources of 
one type instead of paying one resource of another type. The 
Carpenter’s Workshop, Bricklayer’s Workshop, and 
Stonemason’s Workshop buildings do not affect this payment. 
To pay resources, discard them from your hand and place 
them faceup in the resource discard pile.
• Laborers: While assigned to an action, laborers improve that 
action for you. The different effects of laborers on each action 
are explained below each action’s description in this rulebook. 
Whenever you uncover a laborer icon on your income board 
or reach the progress token showing a laborer icon on the 
dike track, you may either assign a laborer on your income 
board to an action on your farmyard board or move one of 
your assigned laborers from one action to another on your 
farmyard board. Up to two laborers can be assigned to each 
action except the "buy or sell sheep" action, which can have 
only one.
• Unused Action Points: After taking an action, if you did not 
spend all your available action points (including any 
additional action points from laborers), you may spend 
unused points to draw resource cards at a cost of one action 
point per card and add them to your hand. Draw these cards 
following the same rules as the “draw resource cards” action. 
You cannot skip an action to save the action points for 
drawing cards.
• Component Limitations: If you would draw a card from 
the resource deck and the deck is empty, shuffle the resource 
discard pile and place it facedown on the main board to create 
a new resource deck. Sheep, coins, and dike breach tokens 
are unlimited; if you run out of any of these components, 
use a substitute. You can use 3-sheep tokens in place of three 
individual sheep.
PHASES
 Turn of the Tide
1. Check hand size: Each player with more than eight resource 
cards in hand chooses and discards cards until he has eight 
cards.
2. Place 3 new flood cards: Draw three flood cards from the 
flood deck and place one facedown on each of the three sea 
spaces on the main board.
3. Reveal new flood card: Flip over the leftmost facedown 
flood card on a sea space. Take the number of flood pieces 
shown on the front of the card and place them from left to 
right on empty flood spaces on the main board as a first 
level. After you finish a level (12 flood pieces), stack further 
flood pieces from left to right on top of the previous level as 
a new level. Over the course of the game the flood will rise 
three levels high.
The back of each flood card shows the range of possible values 
for that card:
 The front of this card will show a value between 1 
and 3.
 The front of this card will show a value between 4 
and 6.
 Work Phase
During the I Work phase, you place your farmers on spaces 
to take actions. When you place a farmer on a space, you gain 
action points equal to the farmer’s action value (2, 3, or 4) 
which you spend to resolve the actions.
The flipped flood 
card shows a 
value of three, so 
three flood pieces 
are placed on 
flood spaces on 
the main board.

ACTION SPACES:
A) BUILD A FARM EXPANSION
	
This action allows you to build exactly one of 
the farm expansion tiles faceup that are next to 
the board: either a building (shown by a brown 
border) or a feature (shown by a green border). 
To build a farm expansion, spend action points 
equal to the farm expansion’s level and pay the resources shown 
on the top-right of the tile.
Take the faceup farm expansion tile from the display and 
place it on an empty space (without sheep or another farm 
expansion) on your farmyard. Some farm expansions can be 
placed only on spaces with specific terrain (bushes, a tree, or 
a lake), which is shown on the left of the resource cost. Farm 
expansions without a terrain requirement can be placed on a 
space with or without specific terrain. Farm expansion can be 
placed inside or outside of a pasture (one or more spaces on 
your farmyard enclosed by fences and/or buildings). However, 
the effects of some farm expansions are active only if the tile is 
located inside or outside of a pasture.
Once built, farm expansions remain on their spaces until the 
end of the game. They cannot be moved, removed, or built over. 
When you build a farm expansion, draw a tile from the stack of 
the same type and place it faceup in the previous tile’s place.
Note: Each player can build only one storm surge building 
during the game. No new storm surge building tiles are drawn!
The icons on the lower half of each tile show the farm 
expansion’s effects. Some farm expansions have multiple effects, 
the colors of the banner behind the tile's name show when the 
effects are active. The back side of the reference sheet explains 
common icons. A detailed explanation of each farm expansion 
can be found in the appendix.
The shield in the top-right corner of a farm 
expansion tile shows the VP value of the tile 
at the end of the game. If the shield contains 
an exclamation mark “!”, the VP value is 0, but the farm 
expansion has an effect which triggers at the beginning of the 
storm surge phase (the last phase of the game).
If a terrain type is shown here, the feature 
must be built on a space with that terrain type.
The name of the farm expansion.
The VP value of the 
farm expansion.
The edges of a feature cannot 
enclose a pasture.
The green banner indicates that this tile's effect 
is always active and involves housing sheep.
The effect of the farm expansion. 
Some farm expansions have 
two effects.
~ Feature Tile Example ~ 
~ Building Tile Example ~
John uses his value-4 farmer to build the 
Pet Shop, a level 2 building. He spends two 
action points, two wood, and one clay and 
places the tile on his farmyard board. Since 
he has two action points remaining, he can 
spend them to draw two resource cards 
after his action is complete.t
The farm expansion’s level; spend 
this number of action points to 
build this farm expansion.
Pay these resources 
to build this farm 
expansion.
	 Brown =
 Orange = 
	
 Gray = 
Wood
Clay
Stone
The color of the 
banner shows when 
the farm expansion’s 
effects take place.
The red banner 
indicates that 
this tile's effect is 
triggered each time 
a certain condition 
is met.
This tile’s effect is active 
during the phase shown here; 
in this case, the I Work 
phase.
This building has 
no VP value, but 
has an effect at the 
beginning of the 
storm surge phase.
The edges of a 
building can help 
enclose pastures.
The white banner indicates that 
this tile's effect is triggered 
immediately.
The blue 
banner 
indicates that 
this tile's effect 
triggers once 
during the 
storm surge 
phase.
This tile’s effect is active 
during the phase shown 
here; in this case, the 
storm surge.

The following rules apply for buildings (not features):
• When you place a building tile on your farmyard, take the 
leftmost building marker from your income board and place 
it on the top-left corner of that tile. You have only four 
building markers, so you can build only four buildings during 
the game.
• The brown edges of buildings can be used to enclose pastures 
(see “Housing Sheep” on page 10).
• When you take a building marker and place it, it may uncover 
an icon on your income board. If you uncover an income 
icon, you will receive additional income starting in the next 
 II Upkeep phase. If you uncover a laborer icon, you may 
either assign a laborer on your income board to an action on 
your farmyard board or move one of your assigned laborers 
from one action to another on your farmyard board.
to this action, you pay one fewer resource of 
your choice to build a farmyard expansion.
Sue builds a second 
building, uncovering a 
new income icon. During 
II Upkeep, she will draw 
two resource cards instead of one.
 Sue places her value-4 
farmer onto her “contribute 
to the dike” action space. 
She spends three action 
points and pays three stone, 
advancing the stone marker 
three spaces and completing 
the dike segment.
The completed dike segment is 
placed on the dike space on the main 
board. Long brown segments are 
placed on the first level, medium 
dark green segments on the second 
level, and light green short segments 
on the third level.
Since Sue paid four resources, she advances her dike point marker 
four spaces on the dike track. The marker reaches a space with a 
progress token, so she chooses one of its effects to resolve: either 
gaining three coins or assigning or moving a laborer.
 Sue has one action point left, so she pays 
one clay to begin constructing the next dike 
segment. The clay marker is placed on the 
first space of the construction yard track, 
and the stone marker is placed back on its 
corresponding starting space.
B) CONTRIBUTE TO THE DIKE
This action allows you to pay resources to 
construct dike segments and advance on the dike 
track. 
To construct a dike segment, spend 1 or more 
action points and pay an equal number of a 
single type of resource (you may save some action points 
for drawing resource cards afterward). For each resource you 
pay, advance the matching resource marker one space on the 
construction yard track. Note: After construction of a dike 
segment has begun with a certain resource, players must 
finish the construction of that segment using the same type of 
resource before starting construction of a new segment.
When a resource marker reaches the last space of the 
construction yard track ( 
 ), the construction of the dike 
segment is complete; take an appropriate dike segment (see 
note below) and place it on the leftmost empty dike space on 
the main board as a first level. After you finish a level of dike 
segments, stack further dike segments from left to right on top 
of the previous level as a new level.
Note: The higher the dike gets, the more dike 
segments are needed to finish a level. The first 
level needs only three brown dike segments, 
which are as wide as four flood tokens. The 
second level needs four dark-green dike segments, which are as 
wide as three flood tokens. The third level needs six light-green 
dike segments, which are as wide as two flood tokens. Since the 
cost to finish each dike segment remains constant throughout 
the game, it becomes increasingly costly to finish dike levels.
For each resource you spend, advance your dike point marker 
one space on the dike track. If your dike point marker ends on 
the same space as another marker, place your marker on top. 
If your dike point marker would advance past the end of the 
track, instead move it to the third space of the track (1 dike 
point) and continue from there, adding 20 to your total dike 
points; count these points when determining which player is 
ahead on the dike track.

After a dike segment is completed, the resource marker stays 
on the last space of the construction yard track until any player 
begins constructing another dike segment with a different 
resource. The next dike segment cannot be constructed from 
the same type of resource as the previous dike segment. After 
any player begins construction with a new resource, place the 
previous resource marker on its corresponding starting space.
You can construct more than one dike segment in the same 
turn: if you complete a dike segment and have action points 
remaining, you may begin constructing the next dike segment 
(with a different type of resource).
to this action, increase by 1 the action value of 
any farmer placed on this action space. If you 
spend the additional action points to construct a dike segment, 
you must still pay the resources as well. This effect applies only 
when you take this action, not while helping (see below).
Asking for Help
After you have completed your action (including drawing any 
resource cards), you must ask an opponent of your choice for 
help. That opponent may construct dike segments (without 
spending action points) and also advances his dike point 
marker one space on the dike track for each resource paid. If 
he chooses to contribute, he may pay up to as many resources 
as you paid to construct dike segments. Laborers have no effect 
when helping. It is possible for a chosen opponent not to pay 
any resources. If your opponent pays one or more resources, 
you advance exactly one additional space on the dike track 
regardless of how many resources your opponent paid. In 
this case, you advance your dike point marker before your 
opponent does.
Players cannot negotiate or discuss when asking for help (e.g. 
you cannot ask who has useable resource cards in his or her 
hand, though the number of cards in each player’s hand should 
always be visible).
In a 2-player game, some additional rules apply when asking 
for help (see "Rule Changes For 2 Players" on page 11).
Progress Tokens
Each time your dike point marker reaches a 
space on the dike track with a progress token 
(whether you are taking an action or helping), 
you immediately resolve the effect shown on that 
token. If a token shows two different effects, you 
choose which to resolve. The progress token stays on the board, 
and other players can resolve the effects when their markers 
reach the space. A detailed description of the progress tokens 
can be found on page A1 of the appendix.
C) BUILD AND/OR MOVE FENCES
This action allows you to build and/or move 
fences on the gaps between spaces on your 
farmyard board to enclose or reorganize your 
pastures (see “Housing Sheep” on page 10). A 
pasture consists of one or more spaces on your farmyard board 
which are completely enclosed by fences and/or buildings.
Move fences: Spend one action point to move one fence on 
your farmyard board to another gap on your farmyard board 
(this does not cost any resources). You can resolve this effect 
this as many times as you can afford.
Build fences: Spend one action point and pay one resource of 
your choice to take the leftmost fence from your income board 
and place it on a gap on your farmyard board. You can resolve 
this effect as many times as you can afford, but you must pay 
the same type of resource for each fence.
Example: John places a farmer with action value 3. 
He spends one action point to move one fence, and 
spends two action points and pays two resources of 
the same type to build two fences. 
If you uncover an income icon, you will receive 
additional income starting in the next II Upkeep phase. If you 
uncover a laborer icon, you may either assign a laborer on your 
income board to an action on your farmyard board or move 
one of your assigned laborers from one action to another on 
your farmyard board.
to this action, increase by one the action value 
of any farmer placed on this action space. If 
you spend the additional action points to 
build a fence, you must still pay the resources as well.
=>
Joe has uncovered two sections on 
income board by building five fences. 
During each II Upkeep phase, he 
will draw one additional card for the 
uncovered resource card icon.
When Joe uncovered the laborer 
icon, he could immediately assign or 
move a laborer.
Since Joe has built all four of his buildings, he also 
gains one coin and draws one additional resource 
card during each 
 II Upkeep phase for those uncovered income icons.
In total, Joe draws three resource cards and gains one 
coin during each II Upkeep .
 Sue asks John 
,for help. Since 
Sue paid four 
resources, John 
may pay up to four 
resources as well. 
He decides to pay 
two clay.
Since John paid resources when asked for 
help, Sue advances her dike point marker 
one additional space on the dike track before 
 John . Then John advances his marker 
two spaces for the two resources he paid.

Note: After you have completed your action, all pastures 
on your farmyard board that house sheep must be 
enclosed by fences and/or buildings (you may open pastures 
while taking this action, but all sheep must be in enclosed 
pastures when you finish your action).
You can build a fence on any gap, even if building it in that gap 
does not currently contribute to enclosing a pasture.
D) BUY OR SELL SHEEP
This action allows you to buy or sell sheep at the 
sheep market. The value of sheep is shown on the 
bottom row of the value track on the main board. 
You cannot buy and sell during the same action.
Buy sheep: Pay one action point and coins equal 
to the current value of sheep to take one sheep from a space on 
the sheep market and house it on your farmyard board. You 
can resolve this effect as many times as you can afford, but you 
can buy sheep from only one row of the sheep market during 
each action. You can buy only as many sheep as are available in 
that row, and you cannot buy more sheep than you can house 
on your farmyard board (see “Housing Sheep” on page 10).
Sell sheep: Spend one action point and place one of your sheep 
on an empty space of the sheep market to gain coins equal to 
the value of sheep. You can resolve this effect as many times as 
you can afford, however you can sell sheep to only one row of 
the sheep market. You cannot sell more sheep than there are 
empty spaces in that row.
Laborer: If one of your laborers is assigned 
to this action, the cost for you to buy sheep is 
decreased by one coin, and you gain one 
additional coin for each sheep you sell. This applies only when 
you take this action, not if you buy or sell sheep in any other 
way. Only one laborer can be assigned to this action.
The value of sheep is shown on the bottom row of 
the value track. In this case, the value is 3 coins.
This value applies for both buying sheep from the 
sheep market and selling sheep to the market.
E) DRAW RESOURCE CARDS 
This action allows you to draw resource cards 
and add them to your hand.
Spend any number of action points to draw an 
equal number of cards from the resource display 
and/or the resource deck and add them to your 
hand. If you want to draw cards from both the display and 
the deck, draw the cards from the display first, then draw the 
remaining cards from the deck. After drawing cards all your 
cards, for each empty spaces of the resource display, draw a 
card from the resource deck and place it faceup on that space.
Laborer: For each laborer you have assigned 
to this action, increase by one the action value 
of any farmer placed on this action space.
Buying sheep: You can buy up to two sheep from 
row 1. You can buy one sheep from rows 2 or 3.
Selling sheep: You can sell up to two sheep to rows 
1 or 3. You can sell up to three sheep to row 2.
This pasture consists of three spaces, and is 
enclosed by fences and a building. You can house 
one sheep on each space inside the pasture.
On the left, a fence has been built to start a new 
pasture, but the spaces are not enclosed and 
cannot house sheep yet.

 High Tide
During this phase, you will check whether the dike breaks or 
holds.
1. Check the dike: Compare the level of the flood pieces with 
the level of the dike segments:
• If the dike level is higher than the flood level, the dike holds. 
• If the flood level is higher than the dike level, the dike 
breaks. 
If the levels are equal, compare the row of flood pieces on the 
highest level with the row of dike segments on the highest level: 
• If the row of dike segments is longer than the row of flood 
pieces, or if the lengths are equal, the dike holds.
• If the row of flood pieces is longer than the row of dike 
segments, the dike breaks.
Resolve the corresponding effect, then return the three flood 
cards on flood spaces to the box.
Dike holds: Each player gains one coin for each 
dike point he has more than the player with the 
fewest dike points; dike points are shown under 
each pair of spaces on the dike track (the player with the fewest 
dike points does not gain any coins). Then move the value 
marker one space to the right on the value track.
The lengths of the rows of flood 
pieces and dike segments are equal, 
so the dike holds. Sue and Joe 
both have two dike points, which is 
one more than John ; Sue and 
 Joe each gain one coin. John has 
contributed the least to the dike and 
gains no coins.
 Upkeep
During the II Upkeep phase, resolve the following steps:
1. Breeding: For every two sheep housed 
on your farmyard board, take one sheep 
from the supply and house it on your 
board if able (see “Housing Sheep” 
below).
2. Income: Starting with the first 
player and proceeding clockwise, 
each player gains any income 
visible on his or her income 
board. Each player will draw at 
least one resource card as income 
(shown by the income icon on 
the top-right of the income 
board); additional income can be 
uncovered by building fences and 
buildings.
3. Retrieve farmers: Remove all your farmers 
from action spaces and keep them near your 
farmyard board.
4. Reset sheep market: Return all sheep on the sheep market to 
the supply, then place one sheep from the supply on each 
space of the sheep market showing a sheep icon.
5. Change first player: The player who is furthest along 
the dike track becomes the first player and takes the 
first player marker. If multiple players are tied for 
furthest, the tied player whose dike point marker is 
on top becomes the first player.
6. Reveal new flood card: Flip over the leftmost 
facedown flood card on a sea space. Take the 
number of flood pieces shown on the front of the 
card and place them from left to right on empty 
flood spaces on the main board as a first level. After 
you finish a level (12 flood pieces), stack further flood pieces 
from left to right on top of the previous level as a new level. 
Over the course of the game the flood will rise three levels 
high.
During the last II Upkeep phase of the game, resolve steps 1, 
2, and 6, skipping 3, 4, and 5.
Housing Sheep
Each space on your farmyard board that is within a 
pasture (enclosed by fences and/or buildings) can 
house one sheep.
Some farm expansions change this rule, and others allow you 
to house sheep on the tile itself. Unless indicated otherwise, 
you cannot house sheep on farm expansion tiles. 
At any time, you can move your sheep between spaces within 
pastures and farm expansions that can house sheep (for 
example, if you want to build a farm expansion on a space 
housing a sheep, you will have to move that sheep). You 
cannot return a sheep from a space to the supply unless an 
action or effect allows you to do so. If you would gain a sheep 
and could not house it, you do not gain that sheep.
=> +
Draw one card 
from the resource 
deck
Draw one card 
from the resource 
deck
or
Gain one coin
Gain one coin

3. Final scoring: Score VP as follows and note them on the 
scorepad:
	
Dike points: For each of your dike points, gain VP equal to 
the current value of dike points; the value of dike points is 
shown on the top row of the value track (if you advanced past 
the last space on the dike track, add 20 to your dike points).
	
Sheep: For each of your sheep, gain VP equal to the current 
value of sheep.
	
Buildings and features: Gain the VP shown on the shield 
icons on your farm expansions ( 
 ).
	
Coins: Gain 1 VP for each of your coins.
	
Resource cards: Gain 1 VP for every two 
resource cards in your hand.
Winning the Game
The game ends at the end of the storm 
surge phase. The player with the most 
VP wins the game! In the case of a tie, 
the tied player who is furthest on the 
dike track wins the game. If there is still 
a tie, the tied player whose dike point 
marker is on top wins the game.
Rule Changes for 2 Players
The game plays the same with two players as it does with three 
or four players, with one exception: 
After completing the “contribute to the dike” action, you may 
pay one coin to ask the market for help instead of asking an 
opponent for help. If you cannot pay the coin, you must ask 
your opponent for help.
If you ask the market for help, one at a time, reveal as many 
resource cards from the top of the resource deck as you paid 
to construct dike segments during your action. For each 
resource card you reveal that could be used to contruct a dike 
segment, advance the matching resource marker one space 
on the construction yard track. If a dike segment is completed 
before you have finished revealing cards, continue revealing 
cards and begin constructing the next dike segment with the 
next different resource card you reveal. Then discard all cards 
revealed this way.
Note: You do not advance an additional space on the dike track 
when asking the market for help.
value
Sheep value
Name
! Farm Expansions
Dike Points
Buildings / Features
Coins
Resource Cards
Total
Dike breaks: Each player gains one dike breach 
token for each dike point he has fewer than the 
player with the most dike points (the player with 
the most dike points does not gain any dike breach tokens). 
Then move the value marker one space to the left on the value 
track. (Pastures begin flooding and farmers cannot house all of 
their sheep, so they begin selling them off. Due to the large supply, 
the value of sheep decreases.)
 Storm Surge
1. Score buildings and features with ! : Resolve the effects of 
each farm expansion showing a “!” icon. Note any VP gained 
this way in the "! farm expansions" section of the scorepad.
2. Check the dike: Check the dike as before, but resolve one of 
the following effects instead of the normal result:
Dike holds: All players discard all dike breach 
tokens to the supply without effect.
Dike breaks: Each player discards one sheep to the supply 
for each of his or her dike breach tokens. If any player does 
not have enough sheep, he pays coins equal to the current 
value of sheep for each sheep he is short. If he does not have 
enough coins, he loses one VP for each coin he is short. Note 
these negative VP in the "Coins" section of the scorepad.
The row of flood pieces is longer 
than the row of dike segments, so 
the dike breaks. Sue has three dike 
points, Joe has two, and John has 
one. John gains two dike breach 
tokens and Joe gains one. Sue has 
contributed the most to the dike, so she 
does not gain any dike breach tokens.
Coins -x

Fields of Arle
“For those who come from the sea, East Frisia is not at the end of 
the world, but rather at its very beginning.” – Ewald Christophers
In the quaint village of Arle, fortune can be had if you’re willing 
to put in a little work. The best flax of all North Germany grows 
in Arle. Demand for this versatile resource can quickly make a 
farmer rich. In Fields of Arle, step into the shoes of a citizen in this 
great village. Manage numerous tasks and prosper. Grow crops, 
breed animals, and build dikes. Improve your craftsmanship and 
construct prestigious buildings. Trade resources with other villages 
to upgrade your goods.
Let Fields of Arle transport you to another time and a beautiful 
land with designer Uwe Rosenberg (Agricola and A Feast for Odin) 
sharing his family’s connection to Arle.
1–2 Players ages 14 and up 
60 minutes per player
Credits
Game Design: Claudia & Ralf Partenheimer
Game Development: Inga Keutmann & Frank Heeren
Editing: Johannes Grimm, Ryan Palfreyman
Layout: Christof Tisch
Graphic Design and Art: Andrea Boekhoff with 
Martin Kleinke
Playtesters: Peter Arndt, Bianca Batsch, Christian 
Blatakes, Gabriele Beck, Olaf Darge, Martina Erlenkötter, 
Frank Felsner, Sarah Franken, Frederik Häfker, Anna-
Lena & Daniel Hast, Klaus Haarmann, Maike Heimbach, 
Jan Henry, Holger Hermann, Stefan Kahlhöfer, Aarni 
Kuoppamäki, Anita Landgraf, Carsten Lauber, Lina Leschner, 
Torsten Mummel, Alexandra Partenheimer, Holger Pfaff, 
Andreas Puff, Rolf Raupach, Martin Schlegel, Wilhelm Volle, 
Ronny Vorbrodt, Stefan Wahoff, and all participants of the 
authors' meetings in Bochum and the Langspiel in Bingen.
Z-Man Games Team
Editing: Alexandar Ortloff, Andrea dell'Agnese & Julia Faeta
Layout: James Meier
Publisher: Steven Kimball
A special thanks go to Uwe Rosenberg for the inspiration 
for this game, the ideas for farm expansions, and his endless 
support. Further thanks go to Frank Heeren and Inga 
Keutmann for helping bring this game to life.
© 2018 Feuerland Verlagsgesellschaft mbH. Z-Man Games and the 
Z-Man Logo are TMs of Z-Man Games. Actual components may vary 
from those shown. Made in Poland. THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. 
NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS AGE 13 OR YOUNGER.
Feuerland Verlagsgesellschaft mbH
Wilhelm-Reuter-Str. 37
65817 Eppstein-Bremthal
PUBLISHED BY
TM
1995 West County Road B2
Roseville, MN 55113 USA
651-639-1905
info@ZManGames