Game Idea
Each player tries to be the first to completely fill their 
garden with clovers. 
But they must check that, at any time, the numbers 
are arranged in ascending order in every row and 
column.
Game Setup
Use one complete set of Clover tiles
(= 1 color numbered from 1 to 20) per player. 
With fewer than 4 players, return unused tiles to the game box.
Shuffle the clovers and place them face-down in the middle of the table.
Note: the clovers’ colors are of no significance once the game starts. 
These colors are only here to help the game setup.
Game End
The winner is the first player to fill in every space of his game board in 
accordance with the Placement rules.
In rare cases, the game ends after a player has revealed the last clover in 
the middle of the table and carried out his turn. In that case, the winner is the 
player wih the fewest empty spaces left on his game board. 
In the case of a tie there are multiple winners.
Variant: TOURNAMENT MODE.
Players may also agree to play as many games as there are players, to allow 
each player to be the start player once.
In this case, players record their points at the end of each game: 
The winner scores 2 points, while the other players lose 1 point for each 
empty space on their boards. 
The player with the most points (or fewest negative poins) when all games are 
completed is the winner. In case of a tie there are multiple winners.
Variant: MICHAEL’S SETUP.
Rules for 2 to 4 players, 8 years and up.
Be the first to complete you garden
in ASCENDING ORDER!
Author: Michael Schacht - Illustrations: Christine Alcouffe
© 2020 TIKI Editions, 10 rue de Penthièvre 75 008 Paris, France. 
Components
4 sets of 20 Clover tiles 4 game boards:
in 4 colors,numbered from 1 to 20 :
 
 Yellow: Red: Purple: Green:
 Back:
 
 to to to to
TIKI Editions : www.tikieditions.com
© 2020 TIKI Editions, 10 rue de Penthièvre 75 008 Paris, France. 
Please note: During this setup phase, once a tile has been placed it may not 
be relocated or exchanged.
If you want to add a bit of risk-taking 
during the setup, use this rule.
Each player draws one clover from 
the middle of the table and place it 
face-up onto any one of the four 
diagonal spaces (marked with golden 
edges). 
Then each player draws another 
clover and places it onto one of the 
remaining 3 diagonal spaces left. 
And so on for a 3rd and and 4th 
clover to fill in the 4 spaces of the 
diagonal.

Example:
The player can only place the just-draw 13 onto space - or exchange it for 
the 10 or 15. He decides his best option is to exchange it for the 10, and place 
the 10 clover face-up in the middle of the table.
He may not place the 13 onto the spaces, as it is larger than 10. It can’t be 
placed onto the spaces, as it is equal to the 13 already on the board. 
It can’t be placed on the spaces, as it is smaller the 15 and 16.
Each player takes a game 
board and orients it so that the 
ladybug is in the lower right 
hand corner. 
Then, each player draws
4 clovers and places them, 
face-up, on the four diagonal 
spaces marqued with golden 
edges. 
Gameplay
The oldest player begins, and then play proceeds in clockwise direction. 
On your turn, you must choose one of the following two options:
A) Take a 
 face-down 
 clover
Take a face-down clover from the 
middle of the table, and place it, 
face-up, onto your game board (see 
«The Placement Rules» on the right).
If you can’t or don’t want to place it, 
leave it, face-up in the middle of the 
table.
B) Take a 
 face-up 
 clover
Do not reveal another clover. 
Instead, take one of the face-up 
clovers from the middle of the table 
and add it to your game board in 
accordance with the Placement 
Rules.
This option is not possible unless 
there is at least one face-up clover in 
the middle of the table.
Placement Rules:
• You may either add your new clover to an empty space on your game board 
or exchange it for a previously-placed clover (and return the exchanged clover 
to the middle of the table, face-up).
• The number on the clover you place on your board must fit, 
in ascending order, with all the other numbers in its row and in its column 
(but numbers in a row or or column don’t need to follow each other like 7,8,9...).
All numbers in a row from left to right as well as in a column from top to bottom 
must be in ascending order
Note: They should keep in 
mind the goal of the game and 
place the clovers so that low 
numbers are in the upper left 
and high numbers are in 
the lower right. The four mar-
ked spaces have no further 
significance during the play.