• 1 Game board
• 1 Horus board 
 
• 1 Scoring board
• 31 Starter Cards
• 24 Horus cards
• 30 Treasure tiles – (10 of each type)
• 14 Temple tiles
• 6 Horus tiles
• 20 Keys
• 22 Scarabs
• 20 Adventurers
• 4 Scoring markers
• 1 First Player marker
• 6 Osiris tiles
• 18 Wild card treasure tiles
• 2 Sarcophagi
4 Player markers
• 1 Die
• 1 Rules booklet
Hunting for precious treasures, 
the adventurers search the legendary 
temple in Luxor.
They strive for the chamber tomb of the Pharaoh. 
Yet, on the way there they can collect many treasures and precious scarabs. The players move their adventurers inside the temple from tile to 
tile by playing their hand cards. The nearer their adventurers get to the chamber tomb and the more treasures they collect on their way the 
more victory points a player gains. After the first two adventurers have entered the chamber tomb with the aid of keys, the game ends. The 
player having collected the most victory points (VP's) is the winner of the game!
Components
Object of the Game
8x Level 1
8x Level 2
8x Level 3
The level is equal to the number of eye icons at the bottom edge of the card.
6x 1
5x +/- 1
4x each of 2, 3, 4, 5
4x die
Of each 
treasure type: 1x 
3x 
1x 
1x 
Vases
Statues
Jewelry
Rear side
Rear sides:
Front sides:
3x Wild card
1x 1 or 2 Eyes
1x 2 or 3 
Eyes
4x Tunnel
4x Scarab
1x Wild card/
Scarab
4x Cobra
6x Falcon
4x Lion
8x
6x
Rear sides
Rear 
side
Front side
Front 
side
1x 1, 2x 2, 2x 3, 1x 4
2 each of 1, 2 or 3 Eyes and keys
Indicating the player's color
5 Adventurers of each player color
1 marker of each player color
(The color of 
the die may 
vary.)

 
Place the game board in the center of the playing area. Place the sarcophagi in the chamber tomb in the center of the game board. 
Place the Horus and scoring boards next to the game board. Mix all scarab tiles face down and keep them above the Horus board 
as general supply, along with the wild card treasure tiles and the keys. Put the die next to the game board.
The first player shuffles the starter cards and deals 
5 cards to each player. The remaining cards form the 
draw pile and are stacked in the center of game board.
Important: The players are not allowed to change the order of their hand 
cards!
Sort the Horus cards by their levels (number of eyes at the bottom edge) and mix 
them separately. Then, stack them face up on the corresponding spaces of the 
Horus board (number of eyes).
Mix the Osiris tiles face down. Place 4 of these tiles on the 
 designated Osiris spaces of the game board, and return the 
2 remaining ones to the game box.
Place the Horus tiles on the corresponding Horus spaces of the 
game board, according to the number of eye icons.
Mix the treasure tiles face down, then place one on each still 
empty space of the game board, randomly drawn and face up.
Sort the temple tiles by their rear sides. 
Mix each type separately, and stack them separately 
face down next to the game board.
Each player chooses a player color, and takes the 5 adventurers, the scoring marker and the player 
marker of their chosen color. All players place two of their adventurers on the starting space (stairs) in 
upright position, and lie down one of their adventurers next to each of the 3 Anubis statues (not in upright 
 position). All players place their scoring marker on the space "0/100" of the scoring track. 
Give the first player marker to the youngest player. Return the unused player 
components to the game box if playing with 2 or 3 players only.
The player marker in front of each player serves as a mere reminder of 
their player color.
Setting Up The Game
General components
Player components
The playing cards
The tiles
Chamber tomb
Key space
Scoring track.
Discard pile
Osiris space
Horus space
Start

 
 
 
 
In Luxor, the players are not allowed to change the order of their 
hand cards during the complete game. A player may play the 
leftmost or rightmost card of their hand only, and is not allowed 
to rearrange their cards thereafter.
Played cards (starter card or Horus card) are placed on the dis-
card pile. When drawing a new card to their hand, a player must 
sort it in the middle of their 4 remaining hand cards. When the 
draw pile is exhausted, shuffle the discard pile and use it as new 
draw pile. At the end of their turn, a player always has 5 hand 
cards.
THE SCORING BOARD: 
The order of scoring the different categories at the end of 
the game is shown in the left column:
1. Position of adventurers | 2. Gained sarcophagi | 3. Keys still owned
4. Number of collected treasure tile sets | 5. Victory points from scarabs
The right column shows the victory points depending on the number of collected 
 
treasure tile sets.
Luxor is played over a series of game rounds. During each 
game round, the first player starts, with the other players fol-
lowing in clockwise direction.
1) Playing a card and moving adventurers
The active player plays their leftmost or rightmost card, and 
moves one of their adventurers from tile to tile towards the 
chamber tomb. The number on the played card is the number 
of tiles the player must move their adventurer.
2) Performing an action
Next, the player performs the action of the tile on which their 
adventurer ended his movement.
3) Drawing a card
Finally, the player draws a new card from the draw pile, and 
must sort it in the middle of their hand. Then, the next player 
takes their turn.
The game ends after the first two adventurers have entered the 
chamber tomb with the aid of keys. The game round is played 
completely, and then the final scoring takes place.
The next two pages show the sequence of play in detail. 
Important: Handling of cards
Sequence of play
New card
These cards can be played
Adventurer VP's
Temple tile icons
Draw pile

 
1) Playing a card and moving adventurers
First, the active player chooses their leftmost or rightmost card, 
then plays it face up on the discard pile in the center of the 
game board.
Starter Cards:
If the card shows a number, the player moves one of their 
 adventurers that number of tiles towards the chamber tomb.
If the card shows the icon 
 the player must move one of 
their adventurers one tile forward or backward.
If the card shows the icon 
 the player rolls the die first. 
Then, must advance one of their adventurers that number of 
tiles towards the chamber tomb as the result of the die roll.
Horus cards:
During the game the players can gain Horus cards (level 1, 2 or 
3), which allow new movement options. Please see page 8 for a 
detailed explanation.
Movement rules:
Choosing an adventurer and moving
The player may choose to move any of their adventurers in 
an upright position. However, adventurers still lying down at 
Anubis statues have not entered the game yet and may not be 
moved. An adventurer always moves from one tile to the next. 
Any empty spaces (spaces without a tile) are skipped. More 
than one adventurer may occupy a tile or a space. 
Starting the movement from an empty space:
In case an adventurer starts his movement from an empty 
space, his first movement is to the next tile, then continuing 
from tile to tile. 
New adventurers entering the game
The first time a player's adventurer passes an Anubis statue, 
they place their adventurer lying down at that statue onto 
the stairs at the start in upright position. That adventurer has 
entered the game now, and can be moved in following game 
rounds.
If the rare case occurs that a player cannot legally move one of their adventurers by playing their leftmost or rightmost card, they play one 
of these two cards without moving an adventurer. Subsequently, they end their turn by drawing a new card from the draw pile.
Example: Looking 
at her hand cards, 
Ani can play either 
the "1" on the left or 
the "3" on the right.
Example: Ani (Red) must move her adventurer from the starting space 3 tiles 
forward.
Move one adventurer 
by 1 to 6 tiles.
Move all adventurers 
by 2 tiles.
Advance last one 
to second last 
one.
Move one adventurer 
and take the treasure 
tile with 1 less adven-
turer than required.
Example: Ani's 
 adventurer starts from 
an empty space. The 
adventurer first moves 
to the nearest tile, then 
proceeds from tile to tile.
Example: Jan (Green) has rolled a "5". His adventurer passes the Anubis statue, 
and he places his adventurer from the statue onto the stairs in upright position.
Example: Ani moves her upright adventurer by 3 tiles. She skips the empty 
space. She is not allowed to move her adventurer lying down at the Anubis 
statue.

 
 
Take 1 
scarab
Take 1 wild card 
treasure tile
Draw 1 Horus 
card
Move from one 
tunnel to the next
Horus tile:
As long as any are available, the player takes either
• a key from the general supply 
or 
• the top card from that stack on the Horus board showing the 
same number of eye icons as shown on the tile. They must sort 
that card in the middle of their hand cards. In this case, the 
player does not draw a new card from the draw pile.
Please see page 8 for a detailed explanation of the Horus cards.
Temple tiles:
The player performs the action of the temple tile. All actions of 
temple tiles are explained in detail on page 7.
Osiris tiles:
The adventurer immediately moves ahead as many tiles as 
shown on the tile. Then, he performs the action of the tile on 
which his movement ends.
Important: Adventurers never stay put on an Osiris tile, but advan-
ce immediately.
Example: Ani's adventurer lands on the Osiris tile with the number 3. She 
advances her adventurer by 3 tiles, then resolves the action of the temple tile by 
drawing a scarab from the general supply.
Example: Ani (Red) decides not to take a key. Instead, she takes the top card 
from the stack of the Horus board showing one eye icon, and puts it in the 
middle of her hand cards.
2) Performing an action
The adventurer performs the action of the tile on which his 
 movement ended. Depending on the tile, the following happens:
Treasure tile:
The player checks if they have at least as many of their own adven-
turers on this tile as the number of depicted adventurer icons.
• If not, nothing happens.
• If the player meets the requirement, they take that tile and 
records the shown number of victory points on the scoring 
track with their scoring marker. The player keeps the tile for 
possible use in a set (composed of vase, jewelry and statue) at the 
end of the game 
Next, the player checks if there is any icon on the now empty space.
If there is an icon, the player reveals the top tile from the 
 corresponding stack of temple tiles, and places it face up on 
that space. The adventurer or adventurers are placed on that 
temple tile without taking the action of the tile.
If there is no icon, all adventurers remain on the empty space.
Example: As there are 2 of Ani's (Red) adventurers on the treasure tile, she 
meets the requirement, and takes that tile. She advances her scoring marker by 
3 spaces. By taking the tile she reveals a temple tile icon (on that space of the 
game board). She draws an appropriate temple tile (cobra), and puts it on this 
space. Finally, she places her adventurers on this new temple tile.
3) Drawing a card
The player draws a new card from the draw pile, and must sort 
it in the middle of their hand immediately.
Whenever the draw pile is exhausted, shuffle the discard pile 
and use it as new draw pile.
Exception: If the 
player had taken 
a Horus card 
during their turn, 
they do not draw 
a new card now.
Note: At the end of their turn, a player always has 5 hand 
cards.
Treasure types: Vase, jewelry & statue
Treasure tile set
VP's when 
collected
Required number of a 
player's own adventu-
rers to collect the tile

 
The game ends after the first two adventurers have entered the chamber 
tomb. The game round is completed as usual. In order to enter the 
 chamber tomb the adventurer's movement must end inside the chamber 
tomb exactly; it is not allowed to forfeit any movement points.
Additionally, the player must discard one key for each of their adven-
turers entering the chamber tomb, and leave it on the key space of 
the game board. A player not owning a key is not allowed to move an 
adventurer inside the chamber tomb.
The first adventurer to enter the chamber tomb claims the sarcophagus 
worth 5 VP's, the second adventurer to get there takes the second one 
worth 3 VP's. It is possible that both these adventurers belong to the 
same player.
Other adventurers may still enter the chamber tomb during the same 
game round, using their key, but they do not gain a sarcophagus.
Each sarcophagus is worth the imprinted number of VP's.
Each key still owned by a player is worth 1 VP.
Keys:
Sarcophagi:
VP's for Adventurers:
Treasure tile sets:
A player gains VP's for complete sets of treasure tile. A set 
consists of one tile each of the three different treasure types: 
Vase, statue, and jewelry. A wild card treasure tile may be 
used as substitute for any type, but a set may not contain 
more than 2 wild card treasure tiles.
Depending on the number of sets they own, a player gains 
VP's as follows:
Number of sets
8+
Victory points
The player scores VP's for each of their adventu-
rers as shown by the scarab on the wall next to the 
adventurer's final location.
Note: An adventurer still at the start (stairs) or at an Anu-
bis statue is worth zero VP's.
At the end of the game the final scoring takes place. All players can gain additional victory points, adding them with 
their scoring marker on the scoring track to any they have collected during the game from treasure tiles:
Exception for ending the game: In the very rare case that no player 
can make a legal move with one of their adventurers during a game 
round, the game ends immediately. Players proceed to final scoring.
End of the game and final scoring
Example: Ani Red) plays a "2" card and moves her adventurer into the 
 chamber tomb, exactly using all movement points. She deposits one of her keys 
onto the key space. Then, she takes the remaining sarcophagus worth 3 VP's.
Example: Ani (Red) gains 31 VP's total 
(0+5+5+8+13) for her adventurers.
Final position 
of adventurer
Scored VP's
Example: Ani (Red) has collected 3 sets, two of which contain wild card tiles. 
According to the chart on the left she gains 12 VP's. Her one remaining wild 
card treasure tile is worthless.

 
Scarabs:
The player reveals their collected scarabs. Each scarab tile is 
worth the imprinted number of VP's.
Summary of temple tiles
Example: Ani (Red) gains 
7 points for her collected 
scarabs.
Example: Jan (Green) plays a "1" card, advancing his adventurer to the tun-
nel. He must move that adventurer to the next tunnel ahead immediately. 
Example: Jan (Green) decides for the level 2 Horus 
card and sorts it in the middle of his hand. At the 
end of his turn, he does not draw a new card from 
the draw pile.
Example: Jan 
(Green) decides to 
take a scarab.
Scarab: The player draws a scarab tile 
form the general supply, secretly looks at 
it, and keeps it face down in front of them. 
Each tile is worth its imprinted number of 
VP's at the end of the game.
Favor of Horus: The player draws the 
top card from one of the two Horus card 
stacks of the Horus board, as shown on 
the tile. The player must sort it in the 
middle of their hand immediately. If both 
eligible stacks are exhausted, the player 
gains nothing.
Tunnel: The player must advance their adventurer to the next tunnel in the direction 
of the chamber tomb. If there is no other tunnel nearer to the chamber tomb, nothing 
happens. The adventurer always advances to the next tunnel, he may not skip any. 
Note: If, by moving through a tunnel, an adventurer passes an Anubis statue where one of that player's adventurers is 
still lying down, that adventurer is placed onto the starting stairs in upright position.
Wild card treasure tiles: The player 
takes a wild card treasure tile from the 
general supply, and keeps it in front of 
them.
Scarab or wild card treasure tile: The 
player takes either a scarab tile or a wild 
card treasure tile.
The player with the most victory points is the winner of the game! In case of a tie for the most VP's, the tied player owning the more 
valuable sarcophagus is the winner. If none of them owns a sarcophagus, these players enjoy a shared victory.
You may now start the game! 
Whenever you encounter the temple tiles 
and the Horus cards 
during the game, the following summaries will help you to understand their meaning:

 
© Copyright 2018 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, 
Germany. All rights reserved.
1 - X: The player chooses any number from the 
scope as shown on the card, and advances one of 
their adventurers that number of tiles.
1 Adventurer less:
The player moves one of their 
adventurers 1, 2 or 3 tiles forward. If 
that adventurers lands on a treasure 
tile, the player may claim it even if the number 
of their adventurers on that tile is one less then 
the number of the required adventurers.
Advance last one to second last 
one:
The player advances their adventurer 
farthest from the chamber tomb to 
their adventurer second farthest from it. Then, 
that adventurer performs the action of the tile 
upon which he landed, if possible.
If more than one of the player's adventurers are 
farthest from the chamber tomb (sharing the 
same tile), the player decides for one of them to 
join the second farthest. 
Advance all adventurers:
The player moves all their adventu-
rers ahead by the number of move-
ments shown on the card. 
They start with the adventurer nearest to the 
chamber tomb, and end with the adventurer 
farthest from the chamber tomb. 
After the player has moved all their adventu-
rers, they decide for one of them to perform the 
action of his current tile.
Example: Jan (Green) has 4 active adventurers, and advances all of them by 2 tiles. The 3 adventurers 
coming from the same space go ahead another 3 tiles immediately due to the Osiris tile. Now, he can 
decide to advance his single adventurer through the tunnel or to take the treasure tile. He takes the 
treasure tile.
Important! Even after using a card "Advance all adventurers", the player can claim 
only a maximum of one scarab OR wild card treasure tile OR treasure tile OR use 
one tunnel OR draw one Horus tile.
Example: Jan (Green) only rolled a "2", so he can more one of his adventurers 
by 1 or 2 tiles. He decides for 2 tiles, so he could play a "1" card next game 
round, and take the treasure tile.
Example: Jan (Green) plays his "1-3 card", and advances one adventurer by 3 
tiles. Then, he takes the treasure tile.
Example: All 5 of Jan's 
(Green) adventurers are 
active. He plays the card 
"Advance last one to second 
last one". He moves one of the 
adventurers still standing on 
the stairs (both are farthest 
away from the chamber 
tomb). That adventurer joins 
his second last one, and he 
takes the treasure tile.
Example: Ani (Red) plays her "1" "1 Adventurer less" card, and moves one of her ad-
venturers to the next tile. She may take that tile, despite having only two adventurers 
on that tile instead of three as required.
1-Die: First, the player rolls the die, then chooses 
a number from 1 up to and including the result of 
the die roll, and advances one of their adventurers 
accordingly. 
The Horus cards provide more options when moving the adventurers.
Summary of Horus cards: