Overview
The players take the roles of influential Portuguese adventurers who risked 
it all in the 17th century to try their luck in Macao, the trading center in 
the far east of the time. By the lucrative trade with Europe, well-planned 
expansion in the city, and skillful filling of important offices and positions 
the players increase their reputation and prestige.
Each of the 12 rounds runs as follows: first, each player must select a new 
card and two of the six dice, which bring him action cubes. Then, the 
players use the available action cubes to “activate” cards, take possession of 
a city quarter, move his ship. and deliver goods to Europe. The player who 
plans well and uses his action cubes effectively will gain prestige for his 
foresight and the success it brings him. 
The winner is the player who has the most prestige points at game end.
Contents
· 1 game board
· 4 die-cut sheets with:
 - 4 player tableaus 
 - 4 wind roses 
 - 24 goods tiles (3 each lacquer ware, rice, 
 tea, jade, silk, paper, porcelain, and spices)
 - 6 joker tiles (“1 of any action cube or 3 
 gold coins”)
 - 36 gold coins 
 - 48 ownership/punish marker (front: 
 shield, back: -3)
· 300 action cubes (50 each of red, blue, 
 green, black, gray, and violet)
· 6 dice (1 in dice colors)
· 4 ships (1 each orange, white, yellow, and brown)
· 10 discs (2 each in the player colors and beige)
· 120 cards:
 - 24 office cards
 - 44 building and 52 person cards
When you read these rules for the first time, we recommend you not bother with the bold text. in the sideboards. 
These serve as short summaries for those who are familiar with the rules.
OVERVIEW
The players take on the roles of 
Portuguese adenturers of the 17th 
century
Over the 12 rounds the players 
prestige points by bringing 
trade goods to Europe, taking 
possession of important quarters 
in the city, building necessary 
and useful buildings, and filling 
respected offices and positions.
The player with the most prestige 
points at game end is the winner
Stefan Feld
An exciting strategy game for 
clever captains and wise governors

Preparation
Before the first game carefully remove all the parts from the four die-cut sheets.
· Place the game board in the middle of the table. It shows the city of Macao, 
divided into 30 quarters and surrounded by a city wall (with 16 spaces). Beyond the 
wall is the ocean with eight European ports (the targets for the trade from Macao) and 
spaces for the ships. On the left is the tribute track (with spaces from 0-12). At the edge 
of each of the long sides are places for the 24 office cards. Around all of this runs the 
scoring track for the player‘s prestige points (with spaces from 0-99), 
Note: the map is not an accurate depiction of the city of Macao in order to have room 
for the various mechanics of the game.
· Each player chooses a color (orange, white, yellow, or brown) and takes the 
following in his chosen color:
 - the tableau, which he places near him on the table (his play area). 
 On the left side is a brief overview of the play of a game round; it also has places 
 for up to five cards and also for goods tiles and ownership/punish markers.
 - the wind rose, which he places next to his tableau. The 7-sided wind rose 
 shows pictures of dice from 1 to 6 and a pointer. 
 - the ship, which he places on one of the ship slips (with anchor).
 - two discs, which he places on the 0 space of the prestige point
 track and on the first space (with a pointer) of the city wall
 (the players stack them in two small stacks).
 - 12 ownership markers, which he places near his 
 tableau with his color side up.
 On the back side of each ownership marker is a 
 punish marker (“- 3”), i.e. if the marker is 
 placed with the “-3“, it is considered a 
 punish marker, which deducts 3 prestige 
 points from the player‘s score.
 - In addition, each player takes 5 gold
 coins, which he places next to his tableau. 
 A player must always place his coins so
 that others can see how much he has.
· Place the remaining gold coins next to
the game board as a bank.
· Sort the 300 action cubes by color and 
place them next to the game board.
· Place the 24 goods tiles randomly (shuffle them and place them as
they are drawn) on the houses of the 24 light city spaces and 
the 6 joker tiles on the houses of the 6 dark city spaces. 
When placing them, make certain that the tax stamps are recognizable.
· Separate the 120 cards into two stacks based on the different graphic 
on their backs: 
 - Shuffle the 24 office cards. Next, place them in sets of two cards each
 face-up next to the long sides of the game board (the board has marks 
 and numbers showing where to place them). 
 In this way the office cards also serve as round counters.
 - Shuffle the 96 building/person cards and place them face-down in a
 stack next to the board next to the first two office cards.
PREPARATION
Lay out the game material 
according to the figure below.
Each player selects a color and 
takes the following in that color: 
- the tableau
- the wind rose
- the ship
- the 2 discs 
- the 12 ownership markers and
- 5 gold coins
 
 
 “white player”
Office cards also serve also as
round counters.

!
Don’t
forget!
· Place the two beige discs to the right and left of number “0” on the 
tribute track on the left side of the board. 
· The players choose one player to be the “dice roller”. He takes the 6 dice 
and places them next to his tableau.
Before beginning the game, the players must do two more things to 
prepare for the game: 
1. From the Building/Person card stack, draw two more cards than the
 number of players (e.g. 5 cards with 3 players) and place them face-up near 
 the game board. Beginning with the player whose disc is at the bottom of 
 the stack of discs on the wall and continuing to other players in the 
 order of the discs from bottom to top, each player takes a card and puts it
 on any empty card space on his tableau. Place the two unchosen cards 
 on a discard pile next to the supply stack. The order of selecting cards is
 intended to balance the disadvantage of having a disc lower down on the stack on
 the wall at the beginning of the game. For number 2 below and during the rest of
 the game, the normal turn sequence is front to back along the wall and top to 
 bottom within a stack. 
2. Now, starting with the player whose disk is on top of the stack of discs
 on the wall and moving downward in the stack, each player takes any 
 one action cube (AC) from the general supply and places it next to the 
 1 die space on his wind rose and then places any two ACs (of the same 
 color, but not necessarily the same as the first cube) from the general 
 supply next to the 2 die space on his windrose. 
 In this way, the other players perform the same actions with ACs from
 the general supply, placing them next to their wind roses.
 Example: the first player places 1 green and 2 red ACs next to his 1 & 2 die spaces. 
 The second player places 1 green and 2 green ACs next to her 1 and 2 die spaces.
 The third player places 1 black and 2 red ACs next to his 1 and 2 die spaces and the 
 fourth player places 1 and 2 blue ACs next to his 1 and 2 die spaces.
Playing the game
The game lasts for exactly 12 rounds, with each round running the same 
way:	
	
 	
1st phase: cards
	
 	
	
2nd phase: dice
	
	
 	
3rd phase: actions
→ 1st phase: cards
1.1) First, the dice roller takes the 2 office cards for this round and places 
them face-up next to the board and then draws from the stack and places 
the four top-most building/person cards (B/P cards) face-up next to the two 
office cards for this round.
1.2) Next, the “tribute value” is calculated: to do this, the players add all 
yellow numbers at the bottom left hand corner of the six face-up cards 
and place the beige disc on the left side of the tribute table on the number 
matching the sum (the result can be also 0). Similarly, the players sum the 
red numbers on the lower right and mark this on the right side of the table 
(also here the result can be 0). The tribute table shows the exchange value: 
the number of gold coins (GC) a player must spend to “buy” how many 
prestige points (PP).
 Example: with the following 6 cards, 
 the tribute shows a player can spend
 3 (gold coins) to buy 6 (prestige 
 points).
Before the game
1) In reverse wall sequence, each 
player chooses a B/P card and 
puts it on his tableau
2) In forward wall sequence, each
places 1 and then 2 AC next to the 
first 2 spaces on his windrose. 
In this example, the following is the player 
sequence:
1. Orange, 2. White, 3. Yellow, 4. Brown
PLAYING THE GAME
The game is played for exactly 12 
rounds; each has the same flow
1st phase: cards
1.1) 4 B/P cards face-up next to 
the current 2 office cards
 
1.2) tribute table values 
determined and marked

1.3) Depending on the number of players, the players now remove 0-2 
of the face-up building/person cards (and discard them): with 4 players, 
remove no cards; with 3 players, remove the last drawn B/P card; and 
with 2 players, remove the last two drawn B/P cards. Office cards are not 
removed.
1.4) Now, the first player on the wall must choose one of the face-up cards 
and place it on his tableau. This card is reserved for this player and to be 
used later (see below, point 3.1). Then, the other players follow in the order 
of their discs on the wall, each taking a card and putting it on his tableau. 
After all players have taken cards, discard the two remaining cards cards.
- The activated idler card changes the preceding rule.
- The players may search through the dicard pile at any time.
Note: In the course of the game, it can occur that a player‘s tableau has five 
cards when he acquires a sixth card. In this case, the player must discard 
any of his now six cards so he has only five cards on his tableau. As a 
consequence of this, he receives a punish marker, i.e. he turns 
one of his ownership markers over so the -3 is showing and 
places in the space provided on his tableau (see left).
→ 2nd phase: dice
2.1) The dice roller now rolls all six dice and arranges them so that all those 
with the same pips showing are together: all 1s, all 2s together etc.
2.2) Subsequently, the players take turns in wall order*. Each chooses any 
two dice (not taking them) and takes the numbers of action cubes of that 
color from the supply and places them next to the number matching the 
pips on the die on his wind rose.
 Example: the player rolls the dice and , among others. Each player who 
 chooses these two dice, takes 2 red AC, placing them next to the picture of the 2 die
 on his wind rose, and 5 green AC, placing them next to the picture of the 5 die.
* Note: the players may choose to execute this phase simultaneously, choosing their 
two dice and taking the AC at the same time. However, if one or more players 
want to see what others choose before making their choices, the phase is played in 
the normal wall order.
2.3) After the players take their AC, each rotates his wind rose one space 
in the clockwise direction. Thus, each of his AC move to a die with 1 
fewer pip. The pile of AC, which the arrow now points to (= the AC of the 
previous die 1), become the player‘s “action cube supply” which he may use 
when executing the following actions. All other AC which are next to the 
dice spaces on his wind rose remain where they are, but are not considered 
part of his action cube supply and may not be used as such.
Note: if, after rotating his wind rose, the arrow points to a space with no 
AC, the player, as consequence of this, receives a punish marker, i.e. he 
turns one of his ownership markers over so the -3 is showing (as above).
Note: in the 3rd phase, such a player may have already activated cards that would 
enable him to place AC in the space next to the arrow on his wind rose. In this case, he 
would then have action cube supply he could use (see below). Of course, even without 
action cube supply, the player could use 3.5 for the “acquisition of prestige”, as this does 
not use his action cube supply. 
1.3) Depending on number of 
players, remove B/P cards 
(0/1/2 cards with 4/3/2 players)
1.4) In wall order each player must 
take one card and place it on his 
tableau 
(exception idler)
When a player adds a 6th card to his 
tableau, he takes a punish marker
2. dice phase
2.1) Roll all 6 dice and sort by 
number of pips showing
2.2) Each player selects 2 of the 6
dice and places AC corresponding 
to the pips next to the his wind 
rose next to the corresponding die
2.3) Next each player rotates his 
wind rose in the clockwise 
direction; arrow points to player’s
“action cube supply”
 
If, after rotating his wind rose, the 
player has 0 AC next to the arrow, the 
player takes a punish marker!
(In this case, the player will have cubes
to use to activate cards and perform 
other actions. As always, the player can 
use the tribute table to buy PP.)

→ 3rd phase: actions
In the actions phase, the players execute actions using their action cube 
supply. Players should try to use all their action cube supply, since the 
player must return any unused action cube supply not used back into the 
general supply at the end of the phase, i.e. players may not keep any AC in 
the space next to the arrow on their wind roses for the next round. 
The player first on the wall begins and uses (if possible) his actions supply 
cubes to execute the following described actions in any combination and 
order. Afterwards, the second player on the wall follows and does the same, 
and so on, until all players have taken their turns executing actions. 
The actions
3.1) Activate cards (based on AC colors available)
In order to use a card on his tableau, a player must activate it by putting 
exactly the combination of AC that are shown at the top of the card from 
his supply of action cube supply back into the general supply. Then, he 
takes the card from his tableau and puts it in his play area; from now on 
the card is activated for the remainder of the game and may be used “free 
of charge” without limit (including in the round it was activated). 
A player may activate as many of his cards in his turn as he wants and has 
AC in his action cube supply to do so. He can activate cards, do other 
actions, and then activate more cards, as he chooses.
3.2) Take possession of one city quarter (based on AC colors available)
The city is divided into 30 quarters. At the beginning of the game, each 
quarter has either a goods tile or a joker tile.
In order to take possession of a quarter, a player must put exactly the AC 
shown in this quarter from his supply of action cube supply back into the 
general supply. Then, he exchanges the tile on the quarter for one of his 
ownership marker. (At game end, each player will score points for his longest 
chain of connected ownership markers in the city; see game end.)
Once a quarter has been taken by a player, that ownership marker remains 
for the rest of the game. That quarter cannot be taken again (even by the 
same player).
The player places the goods tile on the picture of the ship on 
his tableau so that all can see it. This good is now on that 
player‘s ship (regardless of where the ship is!). 
When a player takes a joker tile, he places it next to his
Tableau. He can use it any time in the game (including
immediately after he gets it), to either put any AC from the general supply 
into his supply of action supply cubes or take 3 GC from the bank. After 
using the joker, he discards it next to the game board out of the game.
Remember: each player may only take possession of one city quarter in 
each round. 
Note: the (activated) cards: fountain, juggler, herald, night watchmen, smithy, 
soldier, speculator, and carpenter change the preceding rules. The activated 
juggler, for example, doubles each joker tile so that each can be used to take any 
2 AC, 1 AC and 3 GC, or 6 GC.
3. Actions phase 
Use all AC for actions in wall 
order
3.1) Activate cards:
Pay the exact AC as shown on the 
card to activate it; then move it 
from the player’s tableau to his 
play area
3.2) City quarter:
In order to take possession of one 
city quarter, the player must pay 
the exact AC as shown on the city 
quarter; then, exchange one of his 
ownership markers for the ware 
or joker tile on the city quarter
Place acquired ware tiles on the 
“ship” shown on the player’s 
tableau; place joker tiles in the 
player’s play area 
Joker tiles can be used either as 
any 1 AC or as 3 GC

3.3) Move forward once on the wall (AC colors are unimportant)
The player can move his disc forward along the wall once per round. For 
each one AC (any color) that the player pays from his action cube supply 
to the general supply, he moves his disc forward one space along the wall. 
After moving his disc one space, he can move it further by returning any 
two AC for each one further space he moves his disc along the wall. If a 
player moves his disc to a space with one or more other discs, he puts his 
on top.
- In the very rare case that a player pays enough AC to move his disc to (or beyond) the 
last space on the wall, he places his disc on the bottom! (of the stack, if there are others 
there) of the last wall space. If another player later moves his disc to (or beyond) the 
last wall space, he puts it on the bottom, as well.
- The (activated) cards: fountain, cannoneer, gate, tower, and guard change the 
preceding rules.
 3.4) Ship move (AC colors are unimportant)
On his turn, a player may move his ship as often and as far, with any 
number of direction changes as he wants along the sea and port spaces. For 
each space he moves his ship (each port counts as a space) the player must 
return one AC (of any color) from his action cube supply to the general 
supply. Any number of ships may occupy a sea or port space at the same 
time.
When a player‘s ship is in a port, he may unload any goods tiles he has on 
his ship that match the goods wanted by that port. He places the tile(s) 
on the highest empty spaces available at the port (delivering goods does not 
cost the player AC!). Then, he moves his disc on the prestige point track to 
record the points scored (the numbers on the spaces where he places the 
ware tiles.
- If a player‘s ship is in a port that wants a goods tile he just acquired by taking 
possession of a city quarter, he may immediately deliver the ware to the port as normal 
for no AC cost and score prestige points accordingly.
- The activated cards cooperage, captain, all 8 warehouses, lighthouse, cabin boy, sail 
maker, and helmsman change the preceding rules.
The prestige points earned by the cooperage are NOT doubled by warehouses!
3.5) Acquire prestige points once (paid for by GC, not AC)
Once in each turn a player can acquire prestige points directly by buying 
them with GC. The purchase costs is defined by the current position of the 
discs on the tribute table. The player pays the required gold coins to the 
bank and moves his disc on the prestige track accordingly. 
Note: the activated cards message, diplomat, and envoy change the preceding rule.
3.6) Use cards 
On his turn, a player may use the function of any number of his activated 
cards, and may use them at any time in his turn, and in any order. Of 
course, some functions are only possible at certain times and he may only 
use each card once per turn (unless otherwise specified).
Page 8 shows how the 120 cards are structured and the basic rules for their use.
3.7) Pass
When a player cannot or chooses not to perform further actions in a turn, 
and still has AC in his action cube supply, he must return all these AC to 
the general supply.
3.3) Wall:
Once for 1/3/5/7/… of any 
AC a player may move his disc 
1/2/3/4/… spaces along the wall
3.4) Ship:
For 1/2/3/4/… of any AC a player 
may move his ship 1/2/3/4/… 
spaces 
If a player‘s ship is in a port, from 
and the player has wares on his 
ship that are wanted at the port, 
he can deliver them and score PP 
for the delivery
3.5) Acquire prestige:
Once per turn, a player can but PP 
for GC based on the tribute table
3.6) Use cards:
On his turn, a player may use 
his activated whenever and in 
whatever order he likes (in general, 
each may only be used once per turn)
3.7) Pass:
Whem a player cannot or chooses 
to take no more actions, he 
returns all AC in his action cube 
supply to the general supply

 Example of a turn: a player can first activate one or more cards, then move his ship
 (and use cards related to ship movement), use other cards, take possession of one 
 city quarter (and use related cards), activate more cards, move his ship again, and 
 finally acquire prestige (and use related cards).
 All combinations and sequences are possible, but remember that three actions are 
 allowed only once per turn (per player): move forward on the wall, pay GC to add 
 PP, and take possession of a city quarter.
Rule notes
→ Dice phase:
Beginning with the 8th round, fewer die values are useful (this happens as 
there is no longer time for the wind roses to reach these numbers). Therefore in 
the 8th round all rolled 6’s are turned directly to the 1; in the 9th round, 
all 6’s and 5’s are turned to 1’s, so that in the 12th round, all rolled dice are 
automatically turned to 1’s. To remind players of this, this is again shown 
on the game board near where the players place the office cards.
→ Limitations:
No components (the action cubes, ownership markers, and gold coins) 
should be limited. In the rare case that some of these become exhausted, 
replace the component with a suitable alternate. 
Game end
The game ends after the 12th round. First, for each card a player still has on 
his tableau, he must take a punish marker (the activated card abbot protects a 
player from such punish markers). Then, the players settle their accounts: 
· Punish markers: for each punish marker a player has in his player area, he 
 moves his disc on the prestige track backward 3 spaces. 
· Building/Person cards: all activated cards that are 
 marked “game end”, take effect and the players 
 move their discs on the prestige track according
 to the texts on these cards.
· City scoring: each player scores points for his 
 largest connected string of ownership markers in the 
 city. For each marker in the string, the player scores 
 two prestige points.
 Example: for their largest ownership marker strings: 
 yellow gets 6 PP; white gets 6 PP, brown gets 12 PP, and 
 orange gets 8 PP. (as the white player also has the activated 
 cards smithy and statue, he gets an additional 5 and 3 PP). 
 
The winner is the player who has moved furthest 
along the prestige track - earned the most prestige 
points. If players tie with the most, the player among 
those who is further along the wall is the winner.
The author and publisher thank the many playtesters for their great interest and 
involvement in the development of this game. 
If you have comments, questions, or suggestions, please write us at
Rio Grande Games | PO Box1033 | Placitas, NM 87043 USA
or E-Mail: RioGames@aol.com
Please visit our website at wwwriograndegames.com
 
Toward end, all 6’s become 1’1, 
then all 6’s and 5’s, then all 6’s, 
5’s. and 4’s, etc.
(see edge of game board)
Game materials are unlimited
GAME END
One punish marker per card on the 
tableau. (Exception: Abbot)
· -3 PP per punish marker
· +? PP for “game end” cards
· +2 PP per ownership marker 
 in the player’s longest string
The winner is the player with the 
most prestige points

The cards
All 120 cards are structured as follows:
 1) At the top left, the card displays the exact number and colors of AC a 
player must pay to activate the card. The activation costs vary between 1 
and 4 AC in all possible color combinations.
2) At the top right is a graphic which indicates the kind of card this is: 
office, building, or person.
3) Under these is the name of the card (with a backgroud noting the kind 
of card: office (yellow), building (red-brown), and person (gray). Below this 
is text which describes what the card does.
4) At the bottom of the card are two numbers, left and right, which show 
the exchange rate values for the tribute table. The numbers vary among 
0-0, 1-1 and 2-2 (20 each) and 0-1 and 1-2 (30 each).
5) Between these two numbers is an indication when the card can be used. 
If nothing is written, it is used in the 3rd phase. Otherwise, it will indicate 
when it can be used (1st or 2nd phase, or at game end). 
The 24 office cards are designed such that the activation cost is evenly: 
distributed among the colors red, blue, green, gray, violet, and black with 
four of each color showing 1 to 4 like-colored AC each. 
The 44 building and 52 person cards also have activation costs of 1 to 4 
AC each, but with a variety of like and different colored AC. 
The basic rules for the use of all 120 cards:
· A player may only use activated cards; the cards on a player‘s tableau have 
 not been activated and cannot be used.
· Each card may be used at most once per round to do what is described on 
the card, unless the card specifically says otherwise (like, for example, “in 
each case”, “everyone”, or “every time”).
· With few exceptions, all cards are used in the 3rd phase (“actions”), when 
 the owner of the card is taking his turn. 
 For cards that are not used in the 3rd phase, there is text along the bottom
 of the card describing when it can be used. 
· Once activated, cards may be used immediately, even in the same round as 
 the activation!
· Remember: cards will use the following abbreviations: action cube(s) 
 - AC, gold coin(s) - GC, and prestige point(s) - PP. 
· When a card directs a player to take AC, the player always takes them
 from the general supply and places them in his action cube supply; 
 when a player pays AC, he always takes them from his action cube supply 
 and places them in the general supply. 
· It is important to remember that the rules are intended to be read and 
 followed with reason and normalcy. Players should not look for ways to
 to read the rules so as to make unreasonable actions legal or reasonable 
 actions illegal.
 Thus, for example, if the owner of the card “professor” should forget to take gold when 
 using the 1 die in the 2nd phase, he can still take the gold in the 3rd phase when he
 remembers to do so then! Players should use this reason when applied to other cards.
 Using the same reason, remembering something forgotten from a previous round is 
 too late.
EACH CARD
indicates …
1) its activation cost
(1 to 4 AC)
2) its kind (office, building, 
 or person)
 3) its function 
 4) its tribute value 
 (between 0-0 and 2-2)
 
There are 24 office, 44 building, 
and 52 person cards 
 office building person
Basically:
· only activated cards may be used
· in most case, each card may be 
 used at most once per round
· the cards are usually used in 
 phase 3
· the cards may be used
 immediately after being 
 activated
The abbreviations mean:
AC → Action cube (s)
GC → Gold coin(s)
PP → Prestige point(s)
227412
© 2009 Stefan Feld / Ravensburger Spieleverlag