Mag•Blast is a fast-paced, laser-blasting game of
interstellar warfare. Players use ships, weapons,
technology, and quick thinking to defend their com-
mand ships and blow their opponents to
smithereens. Diplomacy has failed, and any hope for
peace has been crumpled up and thrown in the
wastebasket of the galaxy.The time for talk has
passed – and Mag•Blasts speak louder than words!
In Mag•Blast, you and your opponents take com-
mand of interstellar war fleets, each constructed
and piloted by a different race – some familiar, and
some completely alien.You command your fleet
ships, which are both your offensive and defensive
tools, from the relative safety of a command ship.
Each command ship has a special ability that reflects
the strengths of its race, and each fleet ship has dif-
ferent attributes. Ships are no good without ammu-
nition and maneuvers, however, so you’d better
hope you draw some good cards to supplement
your fleet! If nothing else, you can always scavenge
your own stores for resources in order to build
more ships.As long as you can move your fleet
ships into the line of fire to take the hits for your
command ship, you’ll survive…for one more turn.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The object of the game is to destroy your oppo-
nents’ command ships.When your command ship is
the only one left in the game, you win!
WELCOME TO
In space, everyone

COMPONENTS
10 Command Ship Cards
54 Fleet Ship Cards
12 Scouts
12 Cruisers
10 Destroyers
8 Carriers
6 Dreadnoughts
3 Minesweepers
3 Gunships
101 Action Cards
50 Blasts
18 Laser blasts
22 Beam blasts
10 Mag blasts
22 Miscellaneous
13 Squadrons
8 Direct Hits
8 Direct Hit Effects
CREDITS
Original Game Design: Anders M. Petersen and 
Christian T. Petersen
3rd Edition Development: Robert Vaughn
Cover Art and Card Art: John Kovalic
Graphic Design: Brian Schomburg and Scott Nicely
Production Manager: Darrell Hardy
Executive Developer: Greg Benage
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Mike Zebrowski (lead playtester);
Pete Bodle,Adrianna Busick, Matt Dimmic, Dawn Evans,
Michael Evans, Rob Fosnaugh, Jon McDunn,
Jay Moore, Michael Silbey, Chris Stafford
MAG•BLAST!
can hear you scream! 

COMMAND SHIPS
At the beginning of the game, each player will ran-
domly be dealt a command ship.A command ship
bears the elite generals of a starfaring empire on
the march to war. Each command ship has a hull
strength, four color-coded zones, and a com-
mand ability. If the term “ship” is used in the rules
or on a card, it refers to command ships as well as
to fleet ships.
1. Hull Strength: This is
how much punishment
your command ship can
take. If your command ship
has damage cards beneath
it equal to or greater than
its hull strength, it is
destroyed, you are eliminat-
ed from the game, and your
entire civilization is obliter-
ated. No pressure.
2. Zones: Your command
ship is the center of your
fleet, and is surrounded by four color-coded zones.
Your fleet ships are distributed throughout these
zones, and most can move from one zone to anoth-
er in daring attack runs and defensive maneuvers.
3. Command Ability: When a race crawls into
the stars it brings its particular talents and tenden-
cies, in the form of special abilities, with it.And yes,
a lot of these abilities are like cheating. . .but when
everyone gets to cheat, that’s fair, right?
Activate the Secret Weapon! What? Why Not!?
Some command abilities can be used three times
per game.You may wish to keep track of these abil-
ities’ uses by placing a coin, die, or other counter on
a command ship each time the ability is used.

FLEET SHIPS
Fleet ships represent the mighty vessels of war that
defend your command ship while bringing hot laser-
blasting death to your foes! You begin the game with
four fleet ships, one in each of your command ship’s
zones. Each fleet ship has a speed, hull strength, and
one or more turrets. Some ship types also have
ship abilities. If the term “ship” is used in the rules
or on a card, it applies to fleet ships as well as com-
mand ships.
1. Speed: This is the
number of zones the fleet
ship can move during the
maneuver phase.
2. Hull Strength: This is
how much punishment
your ship can take. Ships
of the same type tend to
have the same hull
strengths, although one
dreadnought might have a
hull strength of 10 while
another has a hull strength
of 12.Any time a fleet ship
has damage cards beneath it equal to or greater
than its hull strength, it is destroyed. Don’t worry,
though, its crew happily gave their lives for the
greater good of the intergalactic empire of whichev-
er race you’re playing.
3.Turrets: Turrets determine which blasts the ship
can fire.
4. Ship Type: This text tells you what class of ship
this is, and in the case of carriers and minesweepers
describes their special abilities.

ACTION CARDS
Action cards can be blasts (which you need to
attack your enemies’ fleets), or reinforcements, or
evasive action maneuvers, or one of many other
special effects. Many of them have resource icons
in the top left corner.
Most action cards may only be played during the
Attack phase of your turn. If the card’s text is pre-
ceded by “ANY TURN:”, however, it may be
played during any step of any player’s turn.
BLASTS
Blasts are played on
enemy ships, representing
shots fired from your fleet
ships. In addition to
resource icons, blasts have
turret requirements
and damage.
1.Turret Requirements:
A blast can only be fired
from a fleet ship that has
a turret of the matching
size and color.
2. Damage: This number indicates how much dam-
age a blast inflicts.
RESOURCE ICONS
Resource icons can be expended in order to con-
struct more ships for your fleet (this is described
later in these rules).The three symbols are:
Star: Represents a ship’s power source.
Circle: Represents the currency need to pay
techs, laborers, and other personnel.
Diamond: Represents the space-age materials
(plastic, duct tape, etc.) needed to build a ship.

GAME SETUP
1. Shuffle the command ship deck, fleet ship deck,
and action card deck, and place them within easy
reach of all players.
2. Each player is randomly dealt a command ship
(labeled 1 in the diagram below), which he places
faceup in front of him.
3. Each player is ran-
domly dealt six fleet
ships facedown. Each
player looks at his
ships, chooses four
of them, and places
them facedown
around his command
ships, one in each
zone.The two
unused fleet ships
are discarded.When
all fleet ships (labeled
2 in the diagram)
have been placed, the
players turn their
fleet ships faceup,
leaving them in the zones in which they were initial-
ly placed.
4. Each player is randomly dealt five action cards.
Players may look at their cards immediately, but
they remain hidden from opponents throughout the
5. Each player adds up the total hull strengths of his
fleet ships.The player with the lowest total strength
fleet takes the first turn.
NOTE: On the first turn of the game, all players
skip phases 1 and 2 as described below, instead
beginning their turns in Phase 3: Reinforce.
GAME SETUP

TURN SEQUENCE
A turn in Mag•Blast is divided into five phases,
each more exciting and zany than the last!
1. Discard
2. Draw
3. Reinforce
4. Maneuver
5.Attack
After you complete all five phases, the player to your
left takes his turn. Play passes clockwise until there’s
only one command ship left flying!
PHASE 1 : DISCARD
During this phase, you may discard as many cards as
you wish from your hand.The more unwanted cards
you discard now, the more new cards you will be
able to draw in the next phase. It is common to dis-
card blasts for which you do not have the right tur-
rets, as well as squadrons if you do not have a carri-
er in your fleet. However, be careful what you
throw away. . .even those cards might be useful later
when you try to reinforce your fleet (see Phase 3:
Reinforce, below).
All players skip this phase on the first turn of the
PHASE 2 : DRAW
During this phase, you may draw cards from the
action deck until you have 5 cards in your hand. If
you already have 5 or more cards in your hand, skip
this step.Although you may not draw if you have
more than 5 cards, there is no maximum hand size;
you may have 6, 10, or 20 action cards in your hand
at any given time. If the action deck runs out of
cards, simply reshuffle the action discard pile to
form a new deck.
All players skip this phase on the first turn of the

PHASE 3 : REINFORCE
No fleet survives on fancy moves and high-tech
weaponry alone. If you want to survive, you’ll have
to be able to replenish your lost ships, and this is
when you do it. During this phase (and only during
this phase), you may exchange resources that are
found on your action cards for the chance to draw
new fleet ship cards from the fleet deck.
RESOURCES
Some action cards (including blasts) have one or
more resource icons printed on them in the top left
corner.There are three different icons, representing
three different resource types: star, circle, and dia-
mond. In order to draw a fleet ship card from the
fleet deck, you must discard from your hand either:
Three resources of one type
(for example, 3 stars or 3 circles)
or
One resource of each type
(1 star, 1 circle, and 1 diamond)
Because a single card can have multiple resources
printed on it, you may be able to draw a new fleet
ship by discarding only 2 cards.

You may draw multiple fleet ship cards in a single
turn if you discard the appropriate number of
resources.
Once you’ve drawn the fleet ship, you may designate
which zone of your fleet you want it to start in, and
place it there immediately. NOTE: You may not
place a new fleet ship in a zone if it would cause
that zone to have more than 3 fleet ships.
PHASE 4 : MANEUVER
The tiniest scout can often maneuver through
defenses that the most powerful dreadnought can-
not penetrate.That is what this phase is all about.
During this phase, each of your ships may move a
number of zones equal to its speed. Moving a single
space consists of the ship relocating from one zone,
say, the yellow zone directly in front of your com-
mand ship, to an adjacent zone, in this case either
the green or the blue zones to the command ship’s
left or right. NOTE: While any number of ships
may be within the same zone during maneuvering,
you may not end this phase with more than three
ships in any one zone.
Keep in mind that your command ship, as the center
of your fleet, never moves.A few strategic notes:
Your flagship can only be attacked directly through
one of your empty fleet zones. It might be wise,
therefore, to make sure that there is at least one
fleet ship guarding every zone, or at least guarding
the zones that your enemies will be most likely to
fire into.
Some of your ships, like your dreadnoughts, have a
speed of zero.This means that you can never move
them from their initial zone.You should therefore
place them carefully, either in a zone where you
would like to concentrate your fire or in a zone
that you think your enemy is likely to attack heavily.

In these diagrams,
John decides he wants
to focus fire on his
enemy’s red zone. He
therefore moves his
scout ship (2), placing
it in the red zone
along with his dread-
nought (3).Then, not
being comfortable with
his yellow zone being
left open, he moves his
destroyer (5) to take
the scout’s place.That
leaves his command
ship (1) open in the
blue zone, but Rob
only has a measly
minesweeper there, so
John’s not too worried.
PHASE 5 : ATTACK
While attacking is the most exciting and rewarding
thing you can do during this phase, there are of
course other options.This is the phase during which
you play many of your action cards (though proba-
bly not the defensive ones; those are mostly played
on opponents’ turns).The most common action
cards are blasts.

FIRING BLASTS
To play a blast card, you must “fire” it from one of
your fleet ships.There are three steps to firing a blast.
1. Choose the firing ship: Choose which of your
fleet ships will fire the blast.The fleet ship must have
a turret icon that matches the turret icon on the
blast card, and it must not have fired already this
turn.
2. Fire the blast: After declaring which ship will
fire, draw a blast card from your hand and place it
on the target ship. Note that you may only target an
enemy ship in the same zone as the firing ship; if
you wish to target an enemy command ship, the
enemy fleet’s corresponding zone must be empty.
Also, because this is a game of “screaming space
battles,” there is one more essential rule for firing
blasts.When you fire a blast, you must make some
sort of sound effect (like “Bzat!” or “KPOWIE!” or
“zzzZZZOT!”). If you forget to make a sound, the
blast misses and is discarded without effect.
3.Apply the damage: If the blast is not canceled
and the attacker made an appropriate sound effect,
slide it under the target ship card with the damage
number in the lower right-hand corner showing.As
soon as a ship has an amount of damage beneath it
equal to or greater than its hull value, it is immedi-
ately destroyed. If a fleet ship is destroyed, it is dis-
carded into the fleet ship discard pile and play con-
tinues. If a command ship is destroyed, its player is
eliminated from the game, and all of his fleet ships
and the cards in his hand are discarded.
BLAM! BLAM! CLICK! CLICK! CLICK!
In order to remember which ships have fired, it can
be helpful to turn your ships 180 degrees (so that
the tops are pointing toward your red zone instead
of your yellow zone) after they let loose a blast.

LAUNCHING SQUADRONS
Squadrons, whether bombers or fighters, are similar
to blasts in some ways:You “launch” them at oppo-
nents’ ships and they do damage if they hit.
However, not only is there no limit to the number
of squadrons you may launch during your turn, but
squadrons also return to your hand at the end of
that turn! Below are the rules for using squadrons.
Carrier: You must have a carrier in your fleet from
which to launch your squadrons.
Target (Fleet Ship): Bombers, like blasts, may
only be targeted at enemy ships in the same zone
from which they were launched. Fighters, on the
other hand, can target fleet ships in any zone.
Target (Command Ship): Fighters can only be
launched at an enemy command ship if that ship’s
fleet has at least one empty zone. Bombers, like
blasts, can only be launched at an enemy command
ship if the corresponding zone into which they are
launched has no enemy ships in it.
Damage: Squadrons that successfully attack their
targets are placed on the enemy ship, doing damage
as listed on the card (2 damage for fighters, 4 for
bombers). However, this damage is temporary.The
squadrons return to your hand at the end of your
turn, and the damage they inflicted is removed.
Therefore, squadron attacks only have a lasting
effect if the damage they inflict is sufficient to
destroy the target during the current turn.
Number of Squadrons: A carrier may launch any
number of squadrons per turn.
ZOOOOOOMMMM . . . RATA-TAT-TAT!!!
Technically, squadrons are action cards, not blasts, so
you don’t need to make sound effects when you play
them. But we recommend doing it anyway!

DEFENDING AGAINST SQUADRONS
Squadrons may be defended against in three ways,
with varying effects:
1.The Temporal Flux action card cancels and dis-
cards one squadron card.
2.The Evasive Action action card cancels the dam-
age of one squadron card, but the card still returns
to the player’s hand at the end of the turn.
3. Defending fleets that have carriers may launch
fighters into any zone to counter enemy squadrons.
If played against a bomber, a defending fighter
squadron cancels the enemy bomber and causes it
to be discarded.The defending fighter then returns
to the player’s hand at the end of the turn. If played
against another fighter, a defending fighter squadron
cancels the enemy fighter, and both cards are imme-
diately discarded.
PLAYING DIRECT HITS
Direct Hits and Direct Hit Effects are action cards
that must be used in conjunction with blasts.They
form part of a chain of cards that can be used to
create devastating effects, like the immediate
destruction of a ship or even its capture! Playing
these cards is simple:
1. Fire a Blast: First, you must successfully hit an
enemy ship with a blast of any type.Your opponent
should always have a chance to consider negating
the blast, either with an action card or with his
command ship’s special ability. If the blast is canceled
in any way, you may not follow it with a Direct Hit.
2. Play a Direct Hit: You must then, before playing
any other cards or taking any other actions, play a
Direct Hit card on the same ship on which you just
fired.Your opponent then has another chance to
stave off disaster by playing defensive action cards

or using special abilities. If the Direct Hit is canceled
in any way, you may not follow it with a Direct Hit
Effect.
Play a Direct Hit Effect or Fire Again:
Immediately after playing the Direct Hit card, you
may then either play a Direct Hit Effect, following
the instructions on the card, or you may fire anoth-
er blast from the same ship at the same target.
TURN END
After you have completed all five phases, declare
that your turn is over.The player to your left now
takes his turn.
ELIMINATION
When a player’s command ship is destroyed, he is
removed from the game. Players that are removed
from the game may still participate by cheering,
heckling, and of course by making sure the players
still in the game are using appropriate sound effects
when they fire blasts.When there is only one com-
mand ship remaining, its player is the winner!
CONTROLLED CARNAGE
The rules above describe the Free-for-All play style:
Attack anyone you want. Controlled Carnage is
good for introductory games with more than three
players, as it limits the initial assault possible against
a single fleet and reduces the number of variables
each player needs to consider. Free-for-All is better
when quick and brutal games are desired.
The rules for playing with Controlled Carnage are
simple:You may only fire blasts and squadrons at
fleets directly to your left and right (in two- and
three-player games, this includes everyone in the
game).You may still play action cards against or for

the benefit of other players, as well as use your
command ship abilities against any player, but to
attack a fleet directly across from you in a four-play-
er game, for instance, you must first work your way
through the fleets between you.
BRUTAL BARRAGE
This play style is excellent for ending a game that
has been reduced from several players to just two
survivors. If the active players decide that it’s time
to start a new game (or if the eliminated players
start complaining that they’re bored), the active
players can agree to start a Brutal Barrage!
In Brutal Barrage, each ship is not limited to firing
one blast per turn. Instead, each turret on each ship
is limited to firing one blast per turn.This means
that destroyers and dreadnoughts can fire two
blasts each during your Attack phase, and it makes
your gunships a thing to be feared!
The Brutal Barrage should start on the player’s turn
with the lowest current hull strength total (sub-
tracting any blasts on his ships from the total).
SCREAMING SKIRMISH
The rules for how quickly a blast sound effect needs
to be made are intentionally vague. If the player
moves to play another card after playing a blast
card, or suggests that he’s done, without having made
a sound, you can pretty much assume that he’s for-
gotten and that the blast misses. For those who
prefer pinpoint accuracy, however, there is the
Screaming Skirmish play style.
In this play style, if a blast touches the table before a
sound effect is made, it misses, lasering off into space
without effect.The truly daring can still toss their
blasts nonchalantly onto their opponents’ ships, but
they’d better be quick with the sound effects!