RULEBOOK & CODEX

Created by Bryan Pope 
©2012 Arcane Wonders
This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part without the express written consent of the author.
Mage Wars® is a registered trademark of Arcane Wonders®. All rights reserved.
The Arena Calls…
A hush falls over the crowd as the two Mages enter the arena. Casting 
a look across the cracked flagstones, you try to estimate his powers 
and guess his secrets as you are announced to the crowd. In a moment, 
the signal will begin, and nothing can stop the battle until one of you 
lies defeated in the dust. Running your fingers across the edge of your 
spellbook, you mentally select your first few spells. But in the back of 
your mind, the doubt is there: do you have the power and the wits to 
defeat the foe before you?
Mage Wars is the customizable strategy game of dueling Mages. Two 
rivals trained in different schools and philosophies of magic have come 
to the arena to determine whose magic will reign supreme…and the 
winner will be the last Mage standing! Armed only with your spellbook, 
you must outwit and outmaneuver your foe while protecting your own 
Mage from destruction. Prepare to enter the Arena!
www.magewars.com

APPRENTICE 
MODE
SETUP
THE GAME 
ROUND
SPELLS
14 ATTACKS 
14 INCANTATIONS 
14 CREATURES 
16 CONJURATIONS 
17 WALLS 
18 ENCHANTMENTS 
20 EQUIPMENT
COMBAT
22 ATTACKS 
29 GUARDING
MAGES
MULTIPLAYER
CODEX

CHAPTER ONE: APPRENTICE MODE
APPRENTICE MODE
Learning Mage Wars
Mage Wars was designed to be as intuitive as possible, and 
play as if magic were real. Spells work the way you think 
they should, and affect the battle in a way that makes sense. 
As a result, you will find that you can learn the rules very 
quickly. 
During your first few games, while you’re familiarizing 
yourself with the rules, you may not want to slow things 
down by looking things up. Rather than pause your game to 
check the rulebook, just do what you think makes sense and 
make a note to check the rules after the game. 
Note: You can look up key words and get quick answers 
in the Codex at the back of these rules. For additional 
information to common questions, a Rules and Codex 
Supplement is available for download at http://www.
arcanewonders.com/resources-and-downloads. 
Video tutorials are also available at http://www.
arcanewonders.com/video-tutorials.
Apprentice Mode
Let’s start off by playing a few games in Apprentice Mode. 
Apprentice Mode games are faster and easier because you 
will play in a smaller arena, and use fewer spells. Setup the 
game as shown on pages 4-5. 
The Arena
In Apprentice Mode, we use 
an arena that is 2 zones by 3 
zones, which is half the size of 
the regular arena. Just use half 
of your game board, and ignore 
the other half. The Mages start in 
opposite corners like normal.
The Mages
In Apprentice Mode, all Mages 
are equal: Each Mage starts with 10 Channeling, 24 Life (this 
is a reduced Life value from what Mages normally have), and 
a basic melee attack of 3 attack dice. They do not have any 
special abilities, so you will not need their Mage Ability card. 
When you setup your Mage status board, you will use these 
values (see page 5).
Spellbooks
You will need to assemble 2 spellbooks. Choose 2 Mages that 
you and a friend wish to play; we recommend the Warlock 
and Beastmaster. On page 3 is a list of spells each Mage 
will use during the game. Find the Mage card, and all of the 
spell cards on the list for each of the chosen Mages. The 
spell cards have been pre-organized so you can find them 
all quickly. Each of the 4 included decks has a mage card on 
top, followed by all the spells for that mage in the exact order 
as listed to the right. The Mage Ability card marks the end 
of that mage’s spells, and is not used in Apprentice Mode. 
Each player chooses a spellbook, and places the spell cards 
for their Mage into their spellbook. You can put them into 
the pockets in whatever manner is easiest for yourself. We 
recommend one spell card per pocket.
The Rules
Remember, the object of Mage Wars is to kill the other 
Mage! Keep your Mage alive at all costs! 
Read through the rules up through page 30. Then, play 
your first game or two in Apprentice Mode. Later, continue 
reading the rules and play the full game! In the full game, you 
will play on a full size game board. The Mages will have 
different attributes and can use special abilities. Also, you 
will build your own custom spellbooks! 
The Magic Rule
Mage Wars is a game of magic and magic spells. Often, these 
spells will violate the normal rules in some way. In all cases, 
if there is a conflict between the text on a spell card and these 
rules, the spell card always takes precedence.
Before you open your packs of spell cards you need to know that they have 
been pre-organized for your convenience. Each pack of cards contains the 
apprentice spellbook for the Mage displayed on the top.
STOP!
The Sidebars
This rulebook has been designed to get you 
started with Mage Wars as quickly as possible. 
You will find many “sidebars” (like this one), 
which provide you with rules for special terms 
and specific situations. The sidebars are 
designed to help you find information quickly 
while you play. Feel free to skip over these as 
you read the rules for the first time, and then 
come back and refer to them as needed later.

CHAPTER ONE: APPRENTICE MODE
1 Bearskin Armor
1 Elemental Cloak
1 Staff of Beasts
3 Bitterwood Fox
1 Emerald Tegu
1 Redclaw, Alpha Male
1 Steelclaw Grizzly
2 Timber Wolf
2 Bear Strength
1 Cheetah Speed
2 Rhino Hide
1 Call of the Wild
2 Charge
1 Rouse the Beast
2 Geyser
1 Jet Stream
1 Regrowth Belt
1 Staff of Asyra
1 Wind Wyvern Hide
2 Asyran Cleric
1 Brogan Bloodstone
2 Highland Unicorn
2 Royal Archer
1 Divine Protection
2 Pacify
1 Rhino Hide
1 Sacred Ground
1 Heal
1 Blinding Flash
2 Pillar of Light
1 Demonhide Armor
1 Lash of Hellfire
1 Leather Gloves
1 Darkpact Slayer
2 Firebrand Imp
1 Flaming Hellion
1 Goran, Werewolf Pet
1 Skeletal Sentry
1 Agony
1 Bear Strength
1 Death Link
1 Enfeeble
1 Ghoul Rot
1 Magebane
1 Vampirism
1 Drain Life
1 Explode
2 Vampiric Strike
1 Fireball
1 Firestorm
2 Flameblast
1 Dragonscale Hauberk
1 Staff of the Arcanum
1 Suppression Cloak
1 Darkfenne Hydra
1 Gorgon Archer
2 Mana Leech
1 Stonegaze Basilisk
1 Essence Drain
1 Force Hold
1 Steal Enchantment
1 Teleport
1 Chain Lightning
1 Electrify
2 Lightning Bolt
APPRENTICE SPELLBOOKS
Beastmasters study Nature 
magic, and overwhelm 
opponents with their 
animal minions. Their 
enchantments transform 
mere forest creatures into 
formidable beasts.
Warlocks dabble in 
Dark magic, summoning 
terrifying demons and 
debilitating their enemies 
with curses. A master of 
fire, he will incinerate those 
who stand in his way.
With their mastery of 
Arcane magic, Wizards 
frustrate their opponents 
by stealing their mana, 
and countering, or 
redirecting their spells.
The Priestess is a master 
of healing, protection, 
and divine powers that 
make her knights, angels, 
and other holy minions, 
virtually undefeatable.
Mage Wars allows you to play one of four Mages, each with their own unique strategies and play style. 
Choose the Mage that suits you best, then find their spells below and put them into a spellbook.

CHAPTER TWO: SETUP
SETUP
ATTACK DICE
SPELL CONDITION MARKERS
MAGE STATUS BOARD
STATUS CUBES 
(RED, BLACK)
MAGE CARD
EFFECT DIE
 COMPONENTS
•	 1 Rulebook
•	 The Arena
•	 2 Spellbooks
•	 336 Spell Cards
•	 4 Mage Cards
•	 4 Mage Ability Cards
•	 2 Mage Status Boards
•	 8 Status Cubes
•	 20 Action Markers
•	 2 Quickcast Markers
•	 9 Attack Dice
•	 1 Effect Die (d12)
•	 1 Initiative Marker
•	 3 Ability Markers
•	 8 Guard Markers
•	 6 Ready Markers
•	 23 Condition Markers
•	 13 Spell Tokens
•	 27 Damage Counters
•	 12 Mana Counters
MAGE ABILITY CARD

CHAPTER TWO: SETUP
The Mage Wars Arena
The game board shows the arena where you 
will battle your rivals for magical supremacy! 
The board is divided into 12 areas called 
“zones,” which control movement and range. 
Zones are adjacent only if they share a 
common edge orthogonally (horizontally or 
vertically). Zones that touch only at a corner 
(diagonally) are not adjacent.
Mage Wars comes with 336 spells to start your spell 
library. These spells can be stored in the Mage Wars 
box. The spells you will play with during a game 
are placed in your spellbook and can be changed 
between games.
Setting Up the Game
Place the game board on the table. Each player 
chooses a Mage and takes the matching Mage Card 
and Ability Card for that Mage (in Apprentice Mode, 
don’t use the Ability Cards). Each player chooses red 
or blue, and takes 10 action markers of that color. 
Additionally, each player takes 3 black status cubes, 1 
red status cube, and 1 black quickcast marker. 
Place your Mage Card in the corner zone closest to 
you (marked with a door on the board). In Apprentice 
Mode, you will play on just half the game board (see 
page 2). Place one of your action markers and your 
quickcast Marker on your Mage Card, with the white 
symbols up, as shown in the diagram to the left.
Place your Mage status board near you. Place a black 
status cube on your Mage’s starting Channeling, 
Mana Supply (all Mages start with 10 mana in their 
supply), and Life value. In Apprentice Mode, all 
Mages have the same attributes (see page 2). Place a 
red status cube on the “0” of your Mage’s Life track. 
This marks how much damage the Mage has taken. 
See example 1.
Choose a spellbook. If this is your first game, you will 
need to assemble your spellbook (see “Apprentice 
Mode” on page 2). Place the dice, condition markers, 
and other game markers in easy reach.
Both players roll the effect die (the d12). The higher 
roller decides who takes the initiative marker: that 
player will act first during the first round of the game!
MAGE ABILITY MARKERS
SPELL TOKENS
GUARD AND READY MARKERS
ARENA
BOARD
336 SPELL CARDS
EXAMPLE 1: APPRENTICE MAGE STATUS BOARD SET UP
ACTION MARKERS
QUICKCAST MARKER
MANA COUNTERS
DAMAGE COUNTERS
INITIATIVE MARKER

THE READY STAGE
Initiative
Reset
Channel
Upkeep
Planning
Deployment
THE ACTION STAGE
Creature Action Phases
Mage Wars is played over a series of rounds, which continue 
until one Mage takes enough damage to be destroyed. The 
last Mage standing wins the game!
Each game round is divided into two stages:
• The Ready Stage
• The Action Stage
The Ready Stage must be completed before the Action 
Stage can begin. During the Action Stage, each creature 
in the arena takes its actions. Once all creatures have acted, 
the game round ends, and a new one begins with a new 
Ready Stage.
This is the “bookkeeping” part of the game round: where 
you channel mana, pay upkeep costs, and pick your spells 
for the round. Both players play simultaneously during the 
Ready Stage.
The Ready Stage is divided into 6 phases. Both players must 
complete each phase before the next one can begin:
Phase 1: INITIATIVE
On the first round of the game, each 
player rolls the effect die to see who 
gets the initiative marker. The high 
roll decides who has the initiative 
for the first round. After each game 
round, during this phase, the player 
with the initiative marker must give it to his opponent. In 
this manner the initiative marker alternates back and forth 
between players. 
The player with the initiative acts first during the Action 
Stage, and goes first whenever you must determine the 
order of events.
Phase 2: RESET
Reset all action markers, quickcast markers, and ready 
markers on your cards by flipping them to their active side.
 
ACTION MARKERS 
& READY MARKERS
Every creature in the arena is marked with an action 
marker (including your Mage). 
The action marker is used to show when that 
creature takes its action during the round:
If the action marker is face up, 
the creature is active. Only 
active creatures get 
to take actions.
If the action marker is 
face down, the creature 
is inactive.
Some abilities and 
effects can be used only once 
each round. These are tracked 
with a ready marker placed on 
the card. If the marker shows 
the “ready” side, that ability is 
available for use. After using 
the ability, flip the marker to the 
“used” side. You won’t be able 
to use that ability again until the 
marker is flipped back to the 
ready side (usually during the 
next Reset Phase).
Your Mage also has a 
quickcast marker. 
You must flip this marker to the 
inactive side when your Mage 
takes their quickcast action.
THE READY STAGE

Phase 3: CHANNEL
Each Mage adds mana equal to his channeling 
to his mana supply. Any objects in the arena 
that channel mana also add mana to their 
supply at this time. 
Your Mage records his mana supply on your 
Mage status board. If other creatures or objects 
channel mana, place mana counters on the 
card to show how much mana is available. There is no limit 
to the amount of mana a Mage or object can have. 
Example: The Beastmaster has Channeling 9, so he gains 9 mana 
each round. In the first round of the game, during the Channeling 
Phase, he adds 9 mana to his starting Mana Supply of 10, for a 
total of 19 mana.
WHAT IS MANA?
Mana is the mystical power that Mages control. 
A spell caster spends mana in order to cast a spell. 
In a way, mana is like electricity, and the Mage is a 
battery that stores it.
Each round, your Mage will generate or “channel” 
some amount of mana. This mana is added to your 
“mana supply.” When your Mage casts a spell, you 
spend mana from your supply.
Mages cannot spend mana they don’t have. If you 
don’t have enough mana, you can’t cast your spell! 
You’ll have to make some tough choices: should you 
save up your mana to summon a large, expensive 
creature? Or parcel it out to power a lot of weaker but 
less expensive spells? The choice is yours!
Phase 4: UPKEEP
Some spells have an upkeep cost. This is a mana cost which 
must be paid each Upkeep Phase, or the spell is destroyed. 
You always choose whether to pay the upkeep cost or allow 
the object to be destroyed.
Also, some spells and conditions take effect during this phase 
(such as Burn or Rot), and creatures with the Regenerate trait 
remove damage (See the Codex, page 40).
You always choose the order in 
which events that affect your 
creatures and objects occur 
during this phase. In the rare 
case that a timing issue occurs, 
the player with the initiative 
decides the order.
Example: You control a Highland 
Unicorn with the Regenerate 2 trait 
that has a Burn marker on it. Since 
the creature has a lot of damage on 
it, the Burn effect could destroy 
it. You can choose to resolve the 
Regenerate trait first or the Burn 
condition first.
WHAT IS A TRAIT?
Spells, creatures, objects, and attacks may all have 
a number of special abilities called traits, printed on 
their card. These traits may allow you to act in ways 
not normally allowed, such as moving farther during 
an action phase.
Traits are listed on the lower half of a spell card or 
inside the attack bar. Some spells and abilities may 
also add traits to an object. For example, you might 
cast an enchantment to give a creature the Fast trait.
Many traits are followed by a value. For example, the 
Highland Unicorn has the Regenerate 2 trait. This 
number shows the strength of the trait. Regenerate 
2 means that the Unicorn will heal 2 damage every 
Upkeep Phase.
Sometimes, this strength value has a plus or minus 
sign. Multiple traits of the same kind with plus or 
minus signs can be combined on the same object. 
So, if a creature with Lightning +1 is enchanted with a 
spell that gives Lightning -2, those two traits combine 
and the creature now has Lightning -1. 
If a trait does not have a plus or minus sign, it does 
not combine with other traits that have the same 
name. Only the trait with the highest value counts. 
If the same unicorn was enchanted with a spell that 
gave it Regenerate 3, it would only heal 3 damage 
every round, not 5.
In these rules, and on the spell cards, traits are always 
capitalized. See the Codex at the end of this rulebook 
for a list of all trait effects.
Phase 5: PLANNING
Each Mage prepares for the round by choosing up to 2 spells 
from his spellbook. Both players simultaneously choose 
their spells. Place your chosen spells face down in front of 
you. Keep your chosen spells secret from your opponent, so 
that he doesn’t know what you are planning!
The spells you prepare are the only spells you will be able 

to cast during this game round. You do not have to cast the 
spells you choose. 
Some objects, such as Familiars or Spawnpoints, have the 
ability to cast spells. You may choose one spell for each of 
these objects at this time. Place these spells face down next 
to the creature or object. 
Spells which are not cast during the round are returned to 
your spellbook at the beginning of the next Planning Phase.
Phase 6: DEPLOYMENT
Spawnpoints are objects which cast spells for you. For 
example, the Beastmaster’s Lair spawnpoint can cast animal 
spells. Starting with the player who has the initiative, you 
may cast the spells you assigned to your spawnpoints (see 
“Spawnpoints” on page 16). Reveal the spell you have 
chosen, pay the mana required, and resolve the spell. If you 
choose not to cast the spell (or if you cannot), it is returned to 
your spellbook at the beginning of the next Planning Phase.
This is where the exciting part of the round takes place. 
Every active creature in the arena gets to take one Action 
Phase to move, attack, or take other actions. Your Mage is a 
creature too and acts during this stage.
The Action Stage is divided into three parts:
Before any creature can take an action, each Mage has an 
opportunity to take a quickcast action, starting with the 
player who holds the initiative marker. The quickcast action 
allows you to cast one quick spell. To do this, you must 
flip over your Mage’s quickcast marker. You do not have to 
use your quickcast action at this time. You may save it to use 
later in the Action Stage.
A quickcast action is a special action 
that only a Mage may take during a 
round, in addition to his regular actions 
during his Action Phase. This action 
can only be used to cast one quick 
spell (a spell with the quick action 
symbol), and cannot be used to take 
any other action.
You can use your quickcast action 
at three times during the Action Stage:
• During the First Quickcast Phase
• Immediately before or after any creature 
you control takes its Action Phase
•	 During the Final Quickcast Phase
When you take your quickcast action, flip your 
quickcast marker face down and play any quick 
spell you have prepared for this round. Using a 
quickcast action and his regular action, your Mage 
can cast two spells in the same round! 
Examples: The Beastmaster could use an 
Action Phase to activate his Timber Wolf to go 
on guard, then afterwards use his quickcast action 
to enchant his Feral Bobcat. The Wizard could use 
his quickcast action to cast his quick attack spell 
“Arcane Zap”, printed on his ability card. This special 
attack counts as a quick spell. Afterwards, he could 
use his normal Action Phase to cast another spell.
Action Phases
The player with the initiative takes the first Action Phase. 
During an Action Phase, you will activate and use one 
creature that you control. Then your opponent takes 
an Action Phase with one of his creatures, then you take 
another, and so on. Continue taking turns back and forth 
between players until all creatures in the arena have had an 
When it is your turn to take an Action Phase, you are the 
acting player, and the creature you activate is the acting 
creature.
When it is your turn to take an Action Phase, you must 
activate one of your active creatures. However, if your 
opponent has more active creatures in the arena than you 
have, you may choose to pass when it is your turn to take 
an Action Phase. You may continue passing as long as you 
have fewer active creatures than your opponent. Once the 
number of active creatures is equal, you must take an Action 
Phase on your turn (you cannot pass).
Example: The Warlock stands alone against a Beastmaster and 
an Emerald Tegu when it is his turn to act. The Warlock may pass 
his turn, forcing the Beastmaster to take an Action Phase instead. 
The Beastmaster activates and uses his Summoned creature, so the 
numbers are now equal and it is the Warlock’s turn again. Now he 
cannot pass.
THE ACTION STAGE

ACTIVE AND 
INACTIVE CREATURES
Any creature that has not yet had an Action Phase 
(with a face up action marker) is active. Any creature 
which has taken its Action Phase (with a face down 
action marker) is inactive. All creatures that are 
Summoned into the arena begin play inactive, and 
start with an action marker with the inactive side up.
Creature Actions
When you choose a creature to take an Action Phase, you 
activate it. You must flip over the creature’s action marker to 
the inactive side, and you must discard any guard marker (if 
it has one). Then your creature may take its actions for the 
round (see “What Can A Creature Do” on page 11).
Important: Even though you flip your creature’s action 
marker over at the beginning of its Action Phase, the phase 
does not end until it has completed all of its actions. 
Note: As soon as you activate a creature and flip its action 
marker, your opponent can reveal any hidden enchantments 
(see “Revealing Enchantments” on page 18). You must give 
your opponent a chance to reveal his enchantments before 
you decide which action you want to take with your 
creature.
When the creature’s actions are complete, resolve any effects 
that occur at the end of its Action Phase. For example, all Stun 
markers on the creature are removed at the end of its Action 
Phase. In some cases you will have to make an “escape roll” 
to see if a spell or condition ends. After resolving any of 
these effects, the creature’s Action Phase is over and it is 
now inactive, and will remain inactive until the next Reset 
Phase (unless a spell or effect reactivates it). In this manner, 
each creature gets to act one time during each Action Stage. 
Exception: If your creature receives a condition during 
its Action Phase due to an enemy damage barrier or 
counterstrike, if that condition has an “end of Action Phase 
effect” it is not resolved until your creature’s next Action 
Phase (see “Counterstrike” and “Damage Barriers” on pages 
27 and 28). 
Remember that before you activate a creature (including 
your Mage), or immediately after you have completed its 
Action Phase, you can use your quickcast action (if your 
quickcast marker is active). 
Hint: You can use your quickcast action to set up powerful 
combo actions! Just before its Action Phase, you can 
increase a creature’s attack or Teleport it to an enemy zone 
for a surprise attack.
When all the creatures in the arena have taken their Action 
Phases (and are now inactive), each player has a final 
opportunity to use his quickcast action for the round (if he 
wants to), starting with the player who has the initiative. 
You may only do this if you have not already used the 
quickcast action earlier in the round. 
During its Action Phase, a creature can move. If it moves, it 
must finish all movement before it takes any other action. A 
creature cannot take any other kind of action before it moves.
When a creature takes a move action it moves one zone 
into any adjacent zone. The zone must be orthogonally 
adjacent (creatures never move diagonally).
After taking a move action, a creature may then take a quick 
action (see “What Can a Creature Do” on page 11). As a 
quick action, a creature can choose to move again to a second 
zone. In this manner, creatures can move 2 zones per round. 
Moving into a second zone completes its Action Phase, and it 
won’t be able to take another action (such as guard or attack). 
Hindering Movement
The presence of enemy creatures can limit your creature’s 
ability to move.
If a creatures moves out of zone with enemy creatures in 
it, or if it moves into a zone with enemy creatures in it, it 
is hindered. A hindered creature can only take one move 
action during its Action Phase (even if it has the Fast trait). 
Some creatures may have a trait or ability which allows 
them to ignore other creatures that hinder movement. For 
example, a creature with the Flying trait can ignore non-
Flying creatures when moving, and a creature with the 
Elusive trait , or who is Teleporting or is Pushed, may always 
ignore enemy creatures when 
MOVEMENT
ACTIVE
INACTIVE

moving. If an enemy creature is Incapacitated or Restrained, 
or if it has the Pest trait, it can be ignored and cannot hinder 
other creatures. Please refer to the Codex for details on each 
of these traits and conditions.
Example: This Timber Wolf has just been activated. Creatures can 
normally move 2 zones (use a move action to move 1 zone, and then 
as their quick action move a second zone). If the Wolf moves to the 
left, then as a quick action it can move a second zone down. However, 
if it moves down first, it must stop moving because the enemy there 
will hinder its movement. Note, it cannot move to the right because 
that direction is blocked by a wall (see “Walls” on page 17.) 
COUNTING DISTANCES
When a creature moves, or when you make an 
attack, you will need to count distance across the 
arena. The distance, or “range,” is always counted 
from one adjacent zone to another (only horizontally 
and vertically, never diagonally).
Example: This Royal Archer has a ranged attack 
with a range of “1-2”. It can only be used to target 
an enemy who is 1 or 2 zones away. The zone the 
archer occupies is “range 0”, the wolf is at “range 1”, 
and the bear is at “range 2”.
A creature moves to a new zone by taking a move 
action, or by being Pushed or Teleported. Whenever it 
moves, it follows the 6 steps below. Some steps might 
not apply. In most cases you will just simply move the 
creature to the new zone.
STEP 1: Declare Move 
Choose which zone the creature will move to. Check 
to see if the move is possible. For example, make 
sure a wall will not block the move (see “Walls” on 
page 17). Make sure the creature is not Restrained 
or Incapacitated. If you change your mind, or find 
you cannot move the creature, you may cancel the 
move action and choose a different action instead. 
However, after this step the move action is committed 
to, and if it is later canceled for any reason, you will 
lose the action.
STEP 2: Pay Costs
You must pay any costs associated with the move. 
For example, a spell might require your creature to 
pay a mana cost in order to move. If you cannot pay 
all of the costs, the move is cancelled, and you have 
lost the action!
STEP 3: Leaving Zone Effects
Any spells, abilities, or effects which trigger when a 
creature leaves a zone occur at this time.
STEP 4: Walls 
The creature encounters any intervening walls. Some 
walls will “attack” a creature when they move through it 
(such as a Wall of Fire). Teleporting creatures bypass 
and ignore walls. See “Walls” on page 17.
STEP 5: Move
The creature must be moved into the new zone. 
STEP 6: Entering Zone Effects
Any spells, abilities, or effects which trigger when 
a creature enters a zone occur at this time. For 
example, some enchantment spells create a “trap” 
which triggers when a creature moves into a zone. 
See “Traps” on page 20.
If a creature becomes unable to move during the move 
action, it stops the move sequence at that point, and 
the rest of the move action is canceled. For example, 
a creature could become Restrained from a “Leaving 
Zone Effect” in Step 3. If this happens, the rest of the 
move action is canceled, and it will not encounter any 
walls, nor actually be moved into the new zone.

WHAT CAN A CREATURE DO DURING ITS ACTION PHASE?
ACTIVATION: First, choose a creature and activate it: Flip over its action marker to the inactive side, and remove its 
guard marker (if any). Now you are ready to act with it! Choose one of the 3 options below. Your creature can either:
	 TAKE A MOVE ACTION FIRST, AND THEN TAKE A QUICK ACTION
	 	First, move the creature one zone to an adjacent zone. Then, you may choose and take a quick action 
(see below). Both the move action and the quick action are optional; you can do one without doing the other. 
However, if you want to move the creature, you must complete the move action before you take a quick action.
	 TAKE A FULL ACTION
	 Do not take a move action. You may choose and take a full action (see below). 
Full actions “take longer to complete” and do not allow you to move first.
	 DO NOTHING
	 Sometimes your creature will have nothing useful to do, or it may be prevented from taking any actions 
(Incapacitated). Even if your creature does nothing, you must still flip its action marker to the inactive side.
QUICK ACTIONS
	 TAKE ANOTHER MOVE ACTION
	 The acting creature moves one additional zone into any 
adjacent zone, following the normal rules for movement. 
The presence of enemy creatures may hinder its 
movement and not allow it to move a second time.
	 MAKE A QUICK ATTACK
	 Your creature can make an attack listed on its card that 
has the quick action icon (see “Attacks” on page 22). 
Example: The Thunderift Falcon has moved into a zone 
with an enemy creature. The Falcon has a quick melee 
attack on its card, so it can attack as a quick action.
	 GUARD
	 The acting creature can choose to defend the zone it is 
in by guarding. Place a guard marker on the creature. 
A creature that is on guard can protect other objects in 
its zone (see “Guarding” on page 29).
	 CAST A QUICK SPELL
	 A creature with the ability to cast spells (such as your Mage 
or a Familiar) may cast a spell that has the quick action 
icon (See “Casting Spells” on page 13). You can only cast 
the spells that you prepared during the Planning Phase. 
Example: The Priestess wants to cast Minor Heal. It is a 
quick spell, so she can cast it with a quick action.
	 TAKE A SPECIAL QUICK ACTION
	 Some creatures have a special action they can take. 
See “Special Actions” to the right.
	 Important: Anytime before or after a friendly 
creature’s Action Phase, your Mage can use 
his special quickcast action. See 
“Quickcast Action” on page 8.
FULL ACTIONS
	 MAKE A FULL ATTACK
	 Your creature can make an attack listed on its card that 
has the full action icon (see “Attacks” on page 22). 
	 Example: The Steelclaw Grizzly has 2 different melee 
attacks printed on its card. It can use its Claws as a quick 
action, but its more powerful Heavy Claw Strike attack 
requires a full action.
	 CAST A FULL SPELL
	 A creature with the ability to cast spells (such as your Mage 
or a Familiar) may cast a spell that has the full action icon 
(See “Casting Spells” on page 13). You can only cast the 
spells that you prepared during the Planning Phase.
	 TAKE A SPECIAL FULL ACTION
	 Some creatures have a special action they can take. 
See “Special Actions” below.
SPECIAL ACTIONS
Some creatures have special abilities 
which are special actions they can take. 
These are described on their card, or may 
appear as an “ability bar” on their card. 
The ability will describe or show the 
action required (quick or full) to use it.
Example: As a quick action, Huginn can 
peek at a target hidden enchantment up 
to 2 zones away.
Some ability bars have 
a mana cost printed on 
them, or a mana cost 
is described in the text for them. This is the cost that must be 
paid to use that ability. Example: The Wizard’s Arcane Zap is 
an ability shown on his ability card, and has a “1” mana cost 
symbol on it. In order to cast it, he must pay 1 mana.

SPELLS
Ultimately, a duel between Mages is a duel of magical spells. 
Your spells define your Mage, and what he can do. In Mage 
Wars, spells are represented by cards.
Let’s Look at a Spell Card
Your spellbook holds a number of spell cards that you 
can use during the game. Each spell card can be used only 
once. After the spell is cast or destroyed, it is placed in your 
discard pile. Normally, you cannot take any spell cards out 
of your discard pile.
Every spell card has information you will need during the 
game:
•	 Spell Name: Name of the Spell.
•	 Spell Type: Identifies the type of spell: Attack, Creature, 
Conjuration, etc.
•	 Subtypes: Some spells or abilities can only affect or 
target particular spell subtypes. 
•	 Casting Line: At the top of the spell card is a “casting 
line”, that shows the information you need to cast the 
spell, including the casting cost, action required, range, 
and target.
•	 Casting Cost: You must spend this amount of mana 
from your mana supply when you cast the spell.
•	 Action Icon: This tells you the type of action required 
to cast the spell. Quick spells are simple and can be cast 
after moving (requiring a quick action), but full spells 
are “complex”, so you cannot move first (requiring a full 
action). The icon shows what kind of action you must 
spend to cast the spell (quick action or full action).
•	 Range: You may only cast a spell at a target that is 
in range. Range is always listed as a minimum and a 
maximum. If the target is too close or too far away, you 
cannot cast the spell.
•	 Target: Every spell must be cast at a legal target. You 
may select the target only if it matches the requirements 
listed on the spell you are casting. Some spells may target 
objects with particular traits or subtypes. For example, 
the Minor Heal spell may only target a Living creature. 
It cannot target a conjuration, or a creature with the 
Nonliving trait.
•	 Effect: This section of the spell card describes what the 
spell does when you cast it. If the spell has any upkeep 
costs, these are described here. Any special traits the 
spell may have are also listed here.
•	 School and Level: This information is used when 
you choose spells to include in your spellbook (see 
“Spellbooks” on page 35).
Your spells are stored in your spellbook until you “prepare 
them” (choose them during the Planning Phase). This helps 
you organize and sort your spells, and allows you to search 
your spells without tipping off your opponent about what 
spells you have available.
Destroyed or discarded spells are placed in your discard pile. 
See “Discarding Spells” on page 13.

SPELL LEVELS
All spells have a spell Level, 
listed in the upper right 
corner of the card below the 
school symbol. Some spells have a variable cost 
that is determined by the Level of the spell’s target.
Example: The Sleep spell has a casting cost which 
depends upon the Level of the creature you are 
putting to sleep. A Level 3 creature costs 6 mana. 
Some spells can only affect targets of a certain 
Level, or have different effects depending on the 
Level of the target.
Note: Your Mage is a Level 6 creature.
Mages (and a few other creatures and objects) have the abil-
ity to cast spells. You can only cast the spells that you pre-
pared to cast during the Planning Phase. 
When you cast a spell, follow these 4 steps in order:
1. Declare Spell
3. Counter Spell
4. Resolve Spell
Step 1: Declare Spell
Announce that you are casting a spell and what the target 
will be. You may only choose a target that matches the target 
requirements listed in the casting line of the spell. Some 
spells will target a zone on the game board. Other spells will 
target a single object, such as a creature or conjuration.
The target of a spell must be in range (see “Counting 
Distances” on page 10). All spells have a range, given in 
zones. The range lists two numbers, such as “0-2.” The first 
number is the minimum distance the caster must be from 
the target, and the second number is the maximum distance. 
For example, if a spell has a range of “0-2,” the target can be 
zero (in the same zone), one, or two zones away from the 
spell caster. If the spell has a range of “1-2,” it can only target 
objects one or two zones away, and cannot target objects 
in the same zone (range “0”), or 3 or more zones away. 
Remember to count range orthogonally, never diagonally.
Note: If there are any walls between your spell caster and the 
target, the walls may block your spell (see “Walls” on page 17).
Some spells require you to make additional choices. Your 
spell may have multiple effects for you to choose from. You 
must announce which choices you are making when you 
cast the spell.
If you change your mind, or find you cannot cast the spell, 
you may cancel the spell action and choose a different 
action instead. However, after this Step the spell action is 
committed to, and if it is later canceled for any reason, you 
will lose the action. 
Step 2: Pay Costs
You must pay all costs for the spell: reduce the mana in 
your Mana Supply equal to the casting cost (or reduce the 
mana on your Familiar or Spawnpoint by removing mana 
markers). Some spells may have additional costs (such as 
taking damage, lowering your Life value, or destroying an 
object in play). These costs must also be paid now.
As soon as you pay the costs required, your spell has been 
cast. If you cannot pay all of the costs, the spell is cancelled 
and discarded, and you have lost the action.
 
Step 3: Counter Spell
Once the spell has been cast, your 
opponent has a chance to “counter” 
it. Normally, there is nothing your 
opponent can do, and the spell 
simply takes effect. However, some 
spells and abilities, such as the 
Nullify enchantment, may allow him 
to counter your spell. When a spell 
is countered it is discarded without 
effect, and you lose the mana spent 
and any action used to cast the spell 
(unless the spell or ability which 
counters says otherwise). 
Step 4: Resolve Spell
At this point, the spell takes effect. The spell type (e.g., 
conjuration) and the text on the spell card determine the 
effects of the spell. If you have cast an attack spell, you must 
now resolve the attack.
When a spell resolves, if you find that the target of the spell 
is no longer a legal target or has moved, even to the same 
zone, then the spell is cancelled.
CASTING SPELLS
DISCARDING SPELLS
Each Mage has his own separate discard pile. 
Any spell or object that is destroyed is always 
placed in its owner’s discard pile (regardless of 
who “controls” it at the time). Many spells, such as 
incantations, are automatically discarded after they 
are resolved.
Important: Any player may freely examine the 
contents of any discard pile at any time.
Cards in your discard pile are “expended”. They 
are outside of your spellbook, and cannot be used 
again. Thus, each spell in your book can be cast 
only once during the game (unless a spell or ability 
allows you to re-use it). 

There are six types of spells; attacks, incantations, creatures, 
conjurations, enchantments, and equipment. How spells 
resolve and behave depends on the type of spell you are casting. 
Attack spells allow your spell caster to attack a target in the 
arena. When the spell resolves, you make the attack on the 
target. Attack spells have an “attack bar” (just like an attack 
bar on a creature card) that has the information you need 
to resolve the attack, including the number of attack dice 
rolled, additional effects table, traits, etc. Once the attack is 
resolved, place the attack spell on your discard pile. Attack 
spells are always ranged attacks. See “Attacks” on page 22. 
Incantation spells have a brief, temporary effect on the 
game. When the spell resolves, follow the instructions on 
the spell card, then place it on your discard pile. 
Creature spells summon a creature into the arena, which 
will fight for you until destroyed. Place the card face up on 
the game board in the target zone. Creature spells usually 
have a range of “0-0”, and are always placed in the same 
zone as the caster. Place an action marker on the creature 
card with the inactive side up (creatures always enter the 
game inactive). 
Note: The game includes 10 action markers per player, but 
there is no limit to how many creatures you can Summon.
Just like your Mage, creature spells have Life and Armor 
attributes, and generally have one or more attacks. If a 
creature receives damage equal to or greater than its Life, 
the creature is destroyed.
Most creatures have one or more special traits printed on 
the card, which gives them special abilities. You can look up 
traits in the Codex located on page 40.
Life and Damage
All creatures and conjurations have a Life value. Life is the 
maximum amount of damage the object can take before 
being destroyed. If the object suffers damage equal 
to or greater than its Life value, it is destroyed. 
Record damage to your Mage using your Mage 
status board, and record damage to other objects 
with damage counters.
Damage and Life are tracked separately for all 
creatures and conjurations, including Mages. Note 
that various spells and abilities can change an object’s Life 
value without changing the amount of damage it has taken.
SPELL TYPES
FAST CREATURES
Some creatures have the Fast trait. These creatures 
may take two move actions before taking a quick 
action. However, Fast creatures may not move 
again as a quick action. Like other creatures, their 
movement can still be hindered by enemy creatures 
(see “Hindering Movement” on page 9).

LIVING AND NONLIVING
All creatures and conjurations are either Living or 
Nonliving. These are “catch-all” traits that describe 
certain characteristics of an object.
Unless the spell card specifies otherwise, all creatures 
have the Living trait, and all conjurations have the 
Nonliving trait.
•	 Living: These creatures and conjurations are 
living things, such as plants or animals. All of the 
rules apply to Living objects normally. For instance, 
Living creatures can be healed or put to sleep.
•	 Nonliving: These creatures and conjurations are 
not alive. They may be a machine or some kind 
of magical construct, or the re-animated skeleton 
of a dead creature. All Nonliving objects have the 
following traits: Poison Immunity and Finite Life, 
in addition to other traits listed on their card. Look 
these traits up in the Codex at the end of the rules. 
FLYING
Creatures with the Flying trait ignore walls and all 
non-Flying enemy creatures when moving. Flying 
and non-Flying creatures do not hinder each other’s 
movement. Likewise, enemy non-Flying creatures 
ignore your Flying creatures when they move. 
Non-Flying creatures cannot make a melee attack 
against a Flying creature unless they have the Reach 
trait. Ranged attacks can target a Flying creature 
normally. Important: Any ranged attack can always 
target a Flying creature in the same zone, even if 
the minimum range for that attack is greater than 0. 
Likewise, a Flying creature can ignore the minimum 
range requirements when attacking a non-Flying 
target in its zone. 
For a Flying creature to make a melee 
attack against a non-Flying creature, it 
must lose the Flying trait until the end 
of that attack action and is affected by 
damage barriers and counterstrikes as 
normal (the flyer must swoop down 
into reach to make the attack).
A creature cannot gain or lose the 
Flying trait in the middle of an attack 
action. For example, if a creature 
gains Flying in the middle of an attack 
action, the entire attack action is 
resolved as if the creature did not have 
Flying, and the Flying trait is gained after that attack 
action is complete.
A Flying creature is affected by guards when it makes 
a melee attack, but only if it is attacking a non-Flying 
object in the guard’s zone. Attacks against other Flying 
objects always ignore guards (see “Guarding” on page 
29).
If a Flying creature guards, it loses, and cannot gain, 
the Flying trait for as long as it has the guard marker.
All creatures always have LoS (Line of Sight) to all 
Flying creatures, and vice versa (see “Line of Sight” 
on page 17).
CORPOREAL & INCORPOREAL
Normal objects, from a Mage’s wand to a Summoned 
angel, have a solid, physical form. We call these 
objects Corporeal. Some objects have no physical 
form, such as a Wall of Fire or a ghostly apparition. 
These objects are said to be Incorporeal.
•	 Corporeal: All objects in the game are 
Corporeal unless they have the Incorporeal 
trait. No special rules are needed for Corporeal 
objects.
•	 Incorporeal: An object that has the Incorporeal 
trait has a few special rules:
•	 All Incorporeal objects also have the 
Uncontainable, Nonliving, and Burnproof 
traits, even if they are not listed on their card.
•	 Incorporeal objects are difficult to damage. 
When you roll attack dice to damage an 
Incorporeal object, you must treat all “2” 
results as “0” results. Only the “1” results are 
counted to determine the amount of damage 
done. Also, the Incorporeal object is not 
affected by any Special Effects or Conditions 
from the attack.
•	 Ethereal Damage: Incorporeal objects are not 
immune to everything, however. Any attack that 
has the Ethereal trait has a “magical” element 
to it and affects creatures on all planes of 
existence. Ethereal attacks affect Incorporeal 
objects as if they were normal Corporeal 
objects. That means that an Ethereal attack 
counts all attack die results as normal, and may 
inflict effects or conditions as normal (except 
Burn, since the Incorporeal object has the 
Burnproof trait).
	
Example: A Whirling Spirit is an Incorporeal 
creature. If the Priestess made a normal 
melee attack and rolled 2 dice, with results of 
the die roll being a 1 and a 2, the spirit would 
only suffer 1 damage (the “2” is treated as 
a “0”). But, if she instead cast a Pillar of 
Light at the Whirling Spirit, the Spirit would 
suffer the full 3 damage from the 2 attack 
dice, and might be 
Dazed or Stunned by 
the additional effects, 
because Pillar of Light 
has the Ethereal trait.
All Incorporeal objects have 
no Armor, and cannot gain 
Armor. They are usually 
easily destroyed by Ethereal 
attacks. Many also have an 
upkeep cost that must be 
paid every round to keep the 
object in the game.

 FAMILIARS
Familiars are objects that have the ability 
to cast spells. Often, these objects can 
channel mana as well. When a Familiar 
gains mana, place the appropriate 
mana counters on the object.
If you control a Familiar during the 
Planning Phase, you may select a 
spell for it to cast during the round. The 
Familiar may have restrictions on the 
types of spells you may choose. Place the spell face 
down near your Familiar, and tell your opponent that 
it is the Familiar’s spell. Only your Familiar may cast 
that spell during the round. 
When your Familiar takes its Action Phase, you may 
have it cast that spell. The type of action the Familiar 
must take depends on the spell it is casting. The 
Familiar must spend any mana that it has towards the 
casting cost first. If it does not have enough mana, you 
must make up the difference from your mana supply.
The Familiar is treated as the spell caster for all 
purposes, such as range, etc. You control all spells 
your Familiar casts.
If your Familiar does not cast its prepared spell, 
the spell returns to your spellbook at the beginning 
of the next Planning Phase. But, if your Familiar is 
destroyed before it casts the spell you assigned to 
it, the spell is also destroyed.
Tip: You should assign a spell to your Familiar, even 
if you may not cast it this round. In this manner, you 
can keep your opponent guessing your true intentions.
A conjuration is a spell that creates an object in the arena 
that remains in play until destroyed. Conjurations have a Life 
value, and can be attacked, damaged, and destroyed, just like 
creatures. They may have Armor to protect them. Unlike 
creatures, conjurations cannot take any actions, and do not 
have an action marker.
Important: Unless the card says otherwise, all conjurations 
have the following traits: Nonliving, Psychic Immunity, and 
Unmovable (you can look these traits up in the Codex).
These traits are not printed on the cards, so as to not repeat 
information that is intuitive and inherent for all Conjurations. 
Some conjurations have the Living trait, which replaces the 
Nonliving trait conjurations normally have.
Most conjurations target a zone, and are attached to that zone. 
When you cast one of these spells, place the conjuration face up 
in the target zone. A zone may never have multiple conjurations 
with the same name attached to it. Normally conjurations 
cannot move. But, if they do move, they cannot move to 
another zone with a conjuration of the same name attached.
A few conjurations target an object instead. These spells 
are attached to the target object, and move with it if it is 
moved. If the target object is destroyed or Teleports away, the 
conjuration is removed and destroyed. An object may never 
have multiple conjurations with the same name attached to it.
Nearly all conjurations have a special ability or effect as long 
as the conjuration is in play. These effects are described on 
the spell card. Unless the card says otherwise, conjurations 
affect the entire game board, regardless of the range.
Example: The Beastmaster has conjured the Tooth and Nail 
conjuration. As long as it remains in play, all animal creatures in the 
arena (friend and foe) gain the Piercing +1 trait for their melee attacks
SPAWNPOINTS
Objects with the Spawnpoint trait have the ability 
to cast spells for you. You select spells for your 
Spawnpoints during the Planning Phase, at the same 
time that you choose spells for your Mage to cast. 
Usually, the Spawnpoint can only cast certain types of 
spells, as listed on the Spawnpoint’s card. Place the 
selected spell face down near the Spawnpoint, and tell 
your opponent that it is the Spawnpoint’s spell. Only 
that Spawnpoint may cast that spell during the round. 
During the Deployment Phase, both players may cast 
these assigned spells, starting with the player who has 
the initiative. If you cast your spell, pay the casting costs 
and resolve the spell. If you do not (or cannot) cast the 
spell, it returns to your spellbook at the beginning of 
the next Planning Phase. If a Spawnpoint is destroyed, 
any spell still assigned to it is also destroyed. 
Most Spawnpoints also have a Channeling attribute, 
which means that they produce their own mana during 
the Channel Phase. Track the Spawnpoint’s mana by 
placing mana counters on it.
Spawnpoints cast spells the same way your Mage 
does, using the target and range shown on the spell. 
Always count range from the Spawnpoint (instead of 
your Mage). The Spawnpoint must spend its own mana 
first (by removing mana counters). If the Spawnpoint 
does not have enough mana to cast the spell, you must 
pay the difference from your Mage’s mana supply. You 
control all spells cast by your Spawnpoints.
Example: The Beastmaster has a Lair, which has a 
Channeling attribute of 2. Each Channeling Phase, 
he places 2 mana counters on the Lair. During the 
Planning Phase, he may choose an additional animal 
creature spell from his spellbook, and declare that 
spell is planned for his Lair. Then, in the Deployment 
Phase, the Lair may cast that creature spell, spending 
any mana counters on the Lair first. If the spell requires 
more mana, the rest comes from the Beastmaster’s 
mana supply.
CONJURATIONS

Walls are special types 
of conjurations, and are 
printed “sideways” on 
the card. Unlike other 
conjurations, walls are 
always placed on the 
border between two 
zones. Walls cover 
the full length of the 
zone border. At least 
one of the two zones 
adjacent to the target zone border must be in range, and 
the zone border in LoS when you cast the wall spell. Only 
one wall can occupy the border between those two zones 
at a time. If you want to place a different wall there, you 
must destroy the old wall first.
Wall cards may have one or more of these three special traits:
• Passage Blocked: If the wall has this symbol, creatures may 
not move through that wall unless they have the 
Climbing or Flying traits (you can look up these 
traits in the Codex). If a creature is Pushed into a 
wall with this trait it is Bashed (See “Pushed” and 
“Bashed’ in the Codex.)
• Passage Attacks: This symbol indicates 
that a creature may move through the wall 
to enter the zone on the other side, but the 
creature automatically suffers an attack from 
the wall. This attack occurs before the creature 
completes its movement action, so if the creature 
is Restrained or Incapacitated during the attack, 
it must remain in its original zone. This is a 
special kind of attack that is neither melee nor 
ranged, cannot be avoided, and does not trigger 
any damage barrier or Counterstrike attacks (see 
“Attacks” on page 22). The attack occurs during 
the Walls Step of the Move Action (see “Move 
Action” on page 10).
If the wall does not have either the Passage 
Attacks or Passage Blocked symbols, creatures 
may move through the wall freely.
• Blocks Line of Sight (LoS): 
This symbol indicates that the wall prevents 
creatures on one side of the wall from seeing 
anything on the other side. Abilities and spells 
cannot target any object or zone that is on the 
other side of a wall that blocks LoS. Walls never 
block LoS to or from any creature with the 
Flying trait.
 Note: The walls around the outside of the arena 
have the Passage Blocked and Blocks LoS traits. They are 
considered high enough to affect Flying creatures too.
• Extendable: All walls have the Extendable trait, which 
allows you to extend them and place 2 walls at one time. As 
you cast a wall, you may choose to pay an additional cost 
equal to the casting cost of the wall plus the wall’s Level. 
 If you do, when the spell resolves, you may get a second 
copy of that same wall from your spellbook and place it as 
a continuation of the first wall, either in a straight line or 
bending around a corner. Only the first wall must be within 
range, and both walls must be within LoS.
 Example: The Wizard casts a Level 2 wall with a mana cost of 7. 
He may extend that wall to cover a second side of the target zone, 
but would have to pay a total of 16 mana (7 per wall plus 2 for the 
spell Level).
Attacking Walls
A creature in either of the zones bordering a wall may 
make a melee attack against that wall. Ranged attacks 
may target a wall if either of the adjacent zones is in range, 
and the wall is in LoS. Walls do not occupy a zone, and are 
not affected by Zone Attacks or spells that target a zone.
WALLS
LINE OF SIGHT
In order to cast a spell or make a ranged attack 
against a target, you must have a clear “line of sight” 
(called “LoS” for short). Normally, a creature has LoS 
to the entire game board, even into zones that are 
out of range. But, some walls block LoS. You cannot 
cast a spell or make a ranged attack through a wall 
that blocks LoS.
When you count range to your target, you must also 
check if you have clear line of sight (LoS). Draw an 
imaginary straight line from the center of the attacker’s 
or caster’s zone to the center of the target’s zone. LoS 
is blocked if the line crosses through a zone border 
that has a wall on it with the blocks LoS trait. Walls do 
not normally block LoS if the line crosses diagonally 
through the corner of a wall border, as long as at least 
one side of that corner does not block LoS. When 
drawing LoS to a wall, draw it to the center of the 
zone border.
Example: The Warlock is preparing to cast a Fireball 
at his enemies, but the Walls of Stone block his line 
of sight. He can only target the creatures in the zones 
marked green. The Walls of Stone block LoS and 
prevent him from seeing (and targeting) any creatures 
in the zones marked red.
Note that he can trace LoS to the Wolf, because 
the line traced from his zone to the Wolf’s zone only 
touches a wall corner, and does not pass through its 
border. However, he has no LoS to the Hydra. Even 
though a traced line only crosses a wall corner, both 
zone borders of that corner have a wall blocking LoS.

Enchantments are different from all other types of spells 
in Mage Wars because they are played face down. Your 
opponent does not know what your enchantment does 
until you reveal it! A face down enchantment is called a 
hidden enchantment. You may examine your own hidden 
enchantments at any time.
Enchantments create an object in the arena that remains in 
play until destroyed. Since enchantments have no Life value, 
they cannot be attacked and cannot take damage.
Enchantments are always attached to their target. Place the 
attached enchantment beneath the target object, but don’t 
cover it completely (so both players can see all attached 
spells). An attached enchantment moves with the target. If 
the target is destroyed, all attached spells are also destroyed. 
Some enchantments target, and are attached to, a zone. 
Simply place the spell face down in the target zone.
There is no limit to the number of different enchantments 
that can be attached to an object, but each object or zone 
cannot have more than one enchantment with the same 
name attached to it at one time. This includes both hidden 
and revealed enchantments. For example, you cannot attach 
two Bear Strength spells to the same creature. It is possible 
that both players may attach an identical enchantment to 
the same target. If an enchantment is revealed on an object 
which already has an identical revealed enchantment 
attached to it, the newly-revealed enchantment is destroyed 
without effect.
Important: Players are not permitted to “shuffle” or mix 
up their enchantments. Your opponent may want to keep 
an eye on which enchantment was cast at a particular time 
by you. Always place newly cast enchantments on top of 
old ones.
Enchantment Mana Costs
All enchantments have two mana 
costs on the card. The first cost, next 
to the closed eye, is the casting cost 
that you must pay when you cast 
the spell and play it face down as a 
hidden enchantment. The casting 
cost is always two mana.
The second cost, next to the open eye, is the reveal cost, which 
you may pay when the spell is revealed. When an enchantment is 
revealed, if the reveal cost is not paid, because you can’t pay it or 
choose not to, the spell is destroyed immediately without effect.
Note: Some enchantments have a trait called Magebind. 
If this enchantment is attached to a Mage, the reveal cost is 
increased by the Magebind trait. For example, the Harmonize 
enchantment has a reveal cost of 2. It also has the Magebind +2 trait. 
If Harmonize is revealed on a Mage, the reveal cost is 4 (instead of 2).
Revealing Enchantments
Important: Hidden Enchantments have no effect as 
long as they are hidden! You may choose to reveal an 
enchantment immediately after any action, step, or phase, 
even if it is your opponent’s turn! This is a “free action” 
that does not require you to activate a creature or flip 
an action marker (See sidebar “When Can You Reveal?”).
When you reveal your enchantment, first you pay the reveal 
cost, before resolving the effect of the enchantment. If the cost 
is not paid, the enchantment is destroyed before it can resolve 
and have any effect. If the cost is paid, flip the enchantment 
over and reveal it to your opponent, then place it partially under 
the object it is attached to. 
When you reveal an enchantment, check to be sure the target 
listed on the enchantment matches the object it is attached to. 
If it does not, destroy the enchantment without effect. In some 
cases, the object may have changed and is no longer a valid target.
Enchantments cannot affect an event that occurred before 
it was revealed. For example, you cannot reveal a Rhino Hide 
enchantment after the enchanted creature takes damage from 
an attack, to reduce the amount of damage it received. 
If both players want to reveal an enchantment at the same time, 
the player with the initiative goes first. He may reveal as many 
enchantments as he wants, one at a time, resolving each one 
before revealing the next. When he is finished, then the other 
player may reveal any enchantments, revealing and resolving 
them one at a time. Then the first player can reveal again, and 
so on. Each enchantment is resolved as soon as it is revealed. 
REVEALING AN ENCHANTMENT
ZONE EXCLUSIVE 
Many conjurations have a trait called Zone 
Exclusive. Each zone can only have one Zone 
Exclusive conjuration at a time (even if those 
conjurations have different names). You may 
not cast a Zone Exclusive spell that targets 
a zone that already has a Zone Exclusive 
conjuration in it.

In a rare case where two enchantments conflict with one 
another the effects are applied in the order they were revealed. 
Example: If one enchantment grants Flying, and one takes away 
Flying, the later effect would overwrite the earlier one. If one enchantment 
gives a creature Life and another enchantment prevents a creature from 
gaining Life, whichever one came first would take precedence. 
DESIGNER’S NOTE: 
THE ENCHANTMENT MATRIX
An enchantment is a spell divided into two parts. 
When you cast the spell, it creates a magical “matrix” 
on the target. At this point, it is not fully formed and 
exists only as magical potential, with no effect on the 
battle. When the spell is revealed later, the caster 
“completes” the spell by adding additional power. It 
is only then that the enchantment takes form and 
can affect the target. Using hidden enchantments, 
a Mage can build a web of diabolical surprises for 
his foe, which is an important part of the tactics in 
Mage Wars®!
WHO CONTROLS 
THAT ENCHANTMENT?
Occasionally, if an object has several hidden 
enchantments on it, it may be difficult to remember 
who controls each enchantment. To help keep the 
enchantments straight, you should always place 
enchantments on the side of the object closest to 
you, or place them so the Mage Wars logo is turned 
towards you. Alternatively, you could use different 
colored card sleeves or small tokens to show 
ownership of hidden enchantments.
Single Use Enchantments
Some enchantments, like Block and Retaliate, can only be 
used once before they are destroyed. The text of these 
enchantments will state that they are destroyed after they are 
used or revealed. 
Mandatory Enchantments
Some enchantments, such as Block and 
Nullify, must be revealed when certain 
conditions are met, as described on the 
spell card. You cannot choose to keep 
one of these mandatory enchantments 
hidden if the trigger condition is met. Most 
mandatory enchantments are also single use enchantments.
Mandatory enchantments have a red reveal cost mana 
symbol on them which helps serve as an additional reminder 
that they must be revealed when a particular event occurs.
Example: The Block enchantment states that you must reveal it 
when the enchanted creature is attacked, during the Avoid Attack 
Step. Your opponent could attack your enchanted creature with a 
weak attack, forcing you to reveal your Block, and clear the way for 
a more powerful attack later.
WHEN CAN YOU REVEAL?
You can reveal an enchantment immediately after 
any step, phase, or action in the game.
•	 At the end of any Phase of the game round. 
	 Example: An Essence Drain can be revealed at 
the end of the Reset Phase, so that it will take 
effect during the Upkeep Phase.
•	 Immediately after a creature is activated, before it 
chooses its actions for the turn.
	 Example: You could reveal Chains of Agony 
when your opponent activates his creature. If the 
creature moves that turn, it will take damage.
•	 Immediately after a creature completes an action, 
such as an attack, moving, or casting a spell.
	 Example: After a creature moves into a zone, but 
before it can make an attack, you could reveal 
Sacred Ground.
•	 At the end of any of the steps for an attack, 
casting a spell, or moving.
	 Example: After the Avoid Attack Step of an attack, 
you could reveal the Rhino Hide enchantment on 
your creature to reduce the amount of damage it 
will take from that attack.
•	 You can reveal an enchantment immediately 
after it is cast, right after the Resolve Spell Step. 
When an enchantment is “resolved” it is placed 
face down as a hidden enchantment. Then, 
immediately after it has resolved, you may choose 
to reveal it at the end of that step. 
•	 You cannot interrupt an event to reveal 
an enchantment.
	 Example: You cannot reveal an enchantment on 
a creature in the middle of rolling dice during an 
attack. You would have to wait until that step or 
action has finished.
Revealing Enchantments Example: The Warlock 
has placed an enchantment on an enemy Wolf. 
When his opponent activates the Wolf, the Warlock 
could reveal the enchantment immediately, before 
the Wolf takes an action. The Warlock decides 
to wait. The Wolf moves into another zone. The 
Warlock could reveal his enchantment after any Step 
of the Wolf’s move action. However, he chooses to 
wait. Now the Wolf takes a quick action to attack the 
Warlock. After the Declare Attack step, he decides 
it is time to reveal his enchantment: it’s Agony! The 
Wolf will roll 2 fewer attack dice when it reaches the 
Roll Dice step of its attack.

Equipment spells give your Mage new or stronger abilities. 
Equipment spells can only be cast on a Mage. 
When you cast an equipment spell, it becomes attached to your 
Mage. It will move with him and is considered a part of him, 
unless destroyed. Place the equipment face-up on your side 
of the table near your Mage status board. Either player may 
examine the equipment attached to a Mage at any time. 
Each equipment spell shows a “location” on your Mage’s body. 
You may only have one equipment spell assigned to each 
location, except for rings, which you may use two of. Some 
TRAPS
Some enchantments have the trap subtype. These 
enchantments always target a zone, and are played 
face down like other enchantments. Normally they can 
only be attached to a zone without enemy creatures in 
it. When an enemy creature enters (moves into) that 
zone, the trap is triggered. Traps are always mandatory 
enchantments, so you must reveal them when they 
trigger. 
Note: A creature being Summoned into a zone does not 
count as “entering the zone” and will not trigger a trap.
To trigger a trap, a creature must move into the zone 
(by taking a move action, being Pushed, or Teleported 
into the zone.) The trap spell is resolved immediately 
after the creature has moved into the zone, and it must 
be resolved before the creature can do anything else. 
Often, the trap will make an attack against the moving 
creature. If the effect of the trap spell prevents the 
creature from acting (by Stunning it, for example), the 
creature’s Action Phase ends immediately. 
You may put any number of traps in the same zone (as 
long as they have different names). All of them might 
get triggered and revealed at the same time. When 
this happens, the controller of the traps determines the 
order of resolution. 
Like other mandatory enchantments, if the trap spell is 
revealed by some effect or ability, at any time other than 
an enemy entering the zone, the trap has no effect and 
is destroyed.
If a mandatory or single use enchantment is revealed at any 
time other than the event for which it is supposed to trigger, 
it has no effect and is immediately destroyed and discarded. 
You cannot hold the revealed spell, to use its effect at a later 
time. For example, if a Block spell is revealed when there is no 
attack, it has no effect and is destroyed and discarded instead.
Note: A mandatory enchantment must be revealed when 
triggered, but you are not required to pay the reveal cost. 
For example, if your Block spell is triggered by a weak attack, 
you could choose not to pay the 2 mana reveal cost to avoid 
the attack. In this case just destroy the enchantment, it has 
no further effect. 
EQUIPMENT LOCATIONS
CLOAK
RING
HELMET
AMULET
CHEST
PIECE
BELT
GLOVES
SHIELD
BOOTS
OR SHIELD
AND 
SHIELD

larger pieces of equipment, like bows, may require two or more 
locations, while others may be “worn” in a location of your 
choice. For example, many wands can be assigned to either the 
“weapon” or “shield” locations. 
Equipment spells have a range of “0-2”. Normally, a Mage will 
be casting equipment only on himself. But, if he wants to cast 
it on a friendly Mage (in a team game), or have a Spawnpoint 
such as Battle Forge cast the equipment on him, then the range 
requirement must be checked. You can cast equipment on 
an enemy Mage too, but you cannot cast equipment on a 
location that is already taken on that Mage. A Mage controls all 
equipment attached to them.
You may not have more than one equipment spell with the 
same name attached to your Mage at any time.
Some equipment spells have an attack bar on them, and give 
your Mage a new attack he can perform. When the Mage 
makes an attack, he can choose to use an attack printed on 
an equipment card, instead of another attack he may have.
Who Controls Equipment?
Usually the controller of a spell is the player who casts it. 
However, equipment is different. The controller of an 
equipment spell is the Mage to whom it is attached. For 
example, if you cast a weapon equipment item on another 
Mage, that Mage controls and can use the weapon. 
Replacing Equipment
If an equipment object of the same name or location 
is cast upon a Mage, if the spell is friendly controlled, 
the new equipment object is placed on the Mage, and 
the duplicate item (the original one which has the same 
name or location) is removed and placed in its owner’s 
spellbook. In this manner, friendly Mages can replace 
equipment on each other with newer or better choices. 
Note that an enemy controlled equipment spell cannot 
replace equipment on a Mage. In such a case the spell is 
canceled and discarded without effect.
SPELLBINDING
Spellbinding is a trait that some objects have 
(usually equipment spells). This trait allows you to 
attach a spell card to the object.
When you cast a spell with the Spellbind trait, 
you may immediately bind a spell to it. You can 
choose any spell from your spellbook that fulfills the 
limitations on the Spellbind object. For example, the 
Mage Wand can only bind an incantation spell, so 
you could not bind an attack spell or enchantment 
to it. Place the bound spell face down under the 
Spellbind object. 
The bound spell can be cast as if it was one of the 
spells you prepared during the Planning Phase. You 
may only cast it once per round. When you cast the 
bound spell, reveal the spell to your opponent, and 
thereafter leave it face up and partially exposed 
from underneath the object it is bound to. You must 
use the appropriate action to cast the spell, pay the 
full mana cost, and check range, target, and LoS, 
just like normal.
If you use a bound incantation or attack spell, it is 
not discarded after casting. The Spellbind object 
retains the bound spell so you can use it over and 
over again in future game rounds. Also, if the spell 
is countered or canceled it is not discarded and 
remains bound.
If the Spellbind object is destroyed, any spell 
bound to it is also destroyed. If an equipment spell 
with Spellbind is returned to your spellbook (if it is 
replaced by another equipment spell, for instance), 
the bound spell also returns to your spellbook.
Some Spellbind objects allow you to change the 
bound spell to a different one. The old spell is 
returned to your spellbook.
Example: You 
can bind any 
incantation spell 
to a Mage Wand. 
You choose to 
bind a Minor Heal. 
As long as the 
wand remains in 
play, you can cast 
the Minor Heal 
spell, up to once 
each round, as if 
you had prepared 
that spell during 
the Planning 
Phase. 

COMBAT
An attack is an attempt to damage an object in the arena. 
You can only attack objects that have a Life value. Other 
objects, such as enchantments and equipment spells, cannot 
be attacked.
The Attack Bar
Every creature or spell that can make an attack has one or 
more attack bars listed on its card. The attack bar shows all 
the information you need to resolve the attack:
•	 Attack Name: This is the name of the attack.
•	 Action Required: This icon shows which type of action 
you must spend to make the attack (quick action or 
full action). 
•	 Attack Type: This icon shows the type of attack, such as 
whether it is a melee or ranged attack. Ranged attacks 
will also show the range (minimum and maximum range). 
•	 Damage Type: Some attacks deal a certain type of 
damage, such as flame, lightning, or wind damage. A damage 
type icon will appear here to show the type of damage. In 
this example, you see a flame damage icon.
•	 Attack Dice: The number in the red square shows how 
many attack dice you roll when making the attack.
•	 Additional Effects Box: Some attacks do more than just 
damage the target. This box shows the chances of inflicting 
additional effects or conditions on the target.
•	 Attack Traits: If the attack has any special traits or effects, 
they are listed here. 
Important: If a creature has more than one attack bar, 
you must choose only one of the attacks to use each 
time you attack. In this core set, Mages have a basic 
quick action melee attack of 3 attack dice (listed on 
their ability card). Your Mage gains other attacks he can 
make by equipping himself with weapons (equipment 
with an attack bar printed on them.) He can also cast 
attack spells. When your Mage attacks, he must choose 
only one of the attacks he has available.
Attacks usually occur when a creature makes an attack using 
one of the attacks printed on its card (an “attack bar”), or 
when a Mage casts an attack spell or attacks with a weapon 
he has equipped himself with. Making an attack is quick and 
easy. Usually you just choose a target, roll attack dice, and 
score damage on the target. However, a specific series of steps 
are provided as a formalized process. Once you’ve made a 
few attacks, these steps will be intuitive and automatic. All 
of these Steps are part of one attack action. A creature may 
use one attack action to make multiple attacks (see Step 5. 
Additional Strikes on page 26, and Sweeping in the codex).
Announce which attack you are using. If your creature has 
more than one attack, represented by more than one “attack 
bar” on its card, you must choose only one attack to use. You 
must choose an attack whose action icon matches the type 
of action you are taking (for example, a full action icon will 
require the creature to use a full action to make that attack). 
Then, announce what target you are attacking. You must 
choose a legal target for your attack:
If you are making a melee attack, the target must be in the 
same zone as the attacker. If there are enemy guards in the 
zone, you must choose one of the guards to attack (see 
“Guarding” on page 29).
If you are making a ranged attack, the target must be in range 
of the attack. A ranged attack ignores guards. All ranged 
attacks have a minimum and a maximum range. The target 
must be in a zone that falls within that range (see “Counting 
Distances” on page 10). Also, a ranged attack must make sure 
STEP 1: DECLARE ATTACK
MAKING AN ATTACK
When you attack, you must follow these 
steps in order:
1. Declare Attack
3. Roll to Miss
4. Avoid Attack
5. Roll Dice
6. Damage and Effects
7. Additional Strikes
8. Damage Barrier
9. Counterstrike
10. Attack Ends

it has a clear LoS (line of sight) - see “Line of Sight” on page 
17. All ranged attacks ignore steps 6 and 7. 
Remember: If a Flying creature attacks a non-Flying object, 
it loses Flying until the end of the attack. See “Flying” on page 
15. 
If the attacker or defender moves during the attack (such as 
by revealing an enchantment that allows him to Teleport) 
that attack is canceled, even if the move was to another 
location that is in range.
If you change your mind, or find you cannot make the attack, 
you may cancel the attack action and choose a different 
action instead. However, after this Step the attack action is 
committed to, and if it is later canceled for any reason, you will 
lose the action.
Example: This Royal Archer has two attacks. Her Longbow 
ranged attack is more powerful, but requires a full action and can 
only target an enemy that is 1 or 2 zones away. If she can only take 
a quick action, or if she wants to target an enemy in her zone (range 
“0”), she must use her weaker Knife melee attack.
You must pay any costs required to make the attack. For 
example, an enchantment may force you to pay mana before 
your creature can attack. 
If you cannot pay all of the costs, the attack is canceled, and 
you have lost the action!
Most attacks are always “on target” and this Step is skipped. 
However, some spells or effects require the attacker to roll the 
d12 effect die to see if they miss their target. For example, if 
the attacker is Dazed, he must roll to see if his attack misses 
(see “Daze” in the Codex). If the attack fails this roll, it has 
“missed” and skips to Step 7: Additional Strikes. See “Daze” 
in the Codex.
The defender may now attempt to avoid an attack by using 
a Defense. 
Important: The defender must decide whether to use a 
Defense (see “Defenses” page 24) before the attacker proceeds 
to the next step and rolls the dice.
If the attack is avoided, skip to Step 7: Additional Strikes. If 
the attack is not avoided then the attack continues with Step 
5: Roll Dice. 
ATTACK SPELLS
When you cast an attack spell, it is both a spell 
and an attack. First, you must follow all steps for 
casting, just like any spell. Then, if the spell is not 
countered, you must resolve the attack, following 
the steps for attacking. 
The target of the attack 
is always the same as 
the target you chose 
when you cast the 
spell.
Attack spells will not 
show a “quick” or “full” 
action icon on the 
attack bar, because 
the quick or full action 
required to make the 
attack occurs when the spell is cast. Also, the 
range of the attack is determined by the range of 
the spell, so no range is shown on the attack bar. 
They also do not have an “attack name” on the 
bar, because the name of the attack is the same 
as the spell. 
STEP 2: PAY COSTS
STEP 3: ROLL TO MISS
STEP 4: AVOID ATTACK

ZONE ATTACKS
Most attacks can only affect a single 
object, but some attacks affect 
everything in an entire zone! These 
are called Zone Attacks and are 
marked with this symbol. The target 
zone must be in range of the attacker.
Zone Attacks always target a zone, never a creature or 
object. Therefore, abilities and traits that allow a target 
to react when it is the target of an attack do not apply 
against a Zone Attack. Zone attacks always have the 
Unavoidable trait, so 
Defenses have no effect 
against them.
During the Roll to Miss 
Step of the attack, the 
zone attack only has 
to roll once to see if it 
“misses’ the zone; it does 
not roll for each individual 
object in that zone. A 
Zone Attack rolls damage 
and 
additional 
effects 
separately against each 
creature and conjuration 
in 
target 
zone, 
whether friend or foe. Roll for each defender, one at 
a time, in any order the attacker chooses. Each attack 
must be completed before the next begins.
Walls are always considered outside of a zone, so 
Zone Attacks never affect them. 
DEFENSES
The gold shield icon represents a Defense attribute. 
The large number at the top of the shield shows how 
effective the Defense is: You must roll this number 
or higher on the effect die to avoid the attack. First, 
announce that you are using your Defense, then roll 
the die: if you are successful, the attack is completely 
avoided (it “misses” the target). No dice are rolled. 
The attack still takes place and costs the attacker 
its action, but it has no effect and no attack dice are 
rolled (skip to Step 7: Additional Strikes).
Important: A creature can never use more than one 
Defense against a single attack (even if it has multiple 
mandatory enchantments that are all revealed when it 
is attacked!). You must choose only one of the available 
Defenses to use each time the creature is attacked. 
The small number at the bottom of the Defense icon 
shows how many times each round you may use that 
Defense. Most Defenses say “1X”, which means that 
it can be used only once each round. Ready markers 
are used to track when the Defense is used. When 
the ready marker is face-up, the Defense is ready to 
be used. 
Some Defenses show an infinity symbol (∞). These 
Defenses can be used every time that creature is 
attacked, but can be used only one time per attack.
Most Defenses are optional. You can choose to use 
them or not. Even with an “infinite” Defense, you can 
always choose to not use the Defense. A mandatory 
Block enchantment must be revealed, but you can 
always choose to not pay its reveal cost.
Some Defenses do not work against a particular 
attack type. If a Defense has a melee icon with a slash 
through it, it cannot be used against melee attacks 
(only ranged). Similarly, a ranged icon with a slash 
means that it cannot be used against ranged attacks. 
You cannot use a Defense against an attack that has 
the Unavoidable trait. 
Some conditions, such as Stun, may prevent a 
creature from using their Defense, while others, like 
Daze, reduce their effectiveness and apply a penalty 
to the Defense roll. 
Some equipment and enchantment spells grant a 
creature a Defense when attached to them.
Example: The Warlock has 2 Defenses available: A 
Force Sword enchantment and Deflection Bracers 
equipment. The Timber Wolf in his zone makes a 
melee attack against him. Since both of his Defenses 
work against melee attacks, he may choose which 
one to use to try and avoid the Wolf’s attack. He 
chooses to use the Bracers and rolls a d12 effect 
die. After using his bracers, he must flip the Ready 
Marker. He won’t be able to use the Bracers again 
until after the next Reset Phase.
Does not work against Melee attacks
Does not work against Ranged attacks
Infinite Defense

Now you roll the attack dice and the effect die to see how 
much damage was done!
Attack Modifiers
Each attack lists the base number of attack dice to roll when 
you make that attack. Normally, you get to roll that many 
dice. But, there are some traits and abilities that modify the 
number of dice you roll. 
For example, the Aegis trait reduces the number of dice the 
attacker rolls. Or, if the defender has the Lightning +2 trait (it 
is weak against lightning damage), you might add dice to the 
attack (see “Damage Types” page 27). 
Some attacks gain a bonus against targets with particular traits 
or subtypes. For example, Samandriel, Angel of Light has +1 
vs. Nonliving or Dark creatures listed on her attack bar. If 
she is attacking a creature with the Nonliving trait, or from 
the Dark school, she adds +1 die to the number of attack dice 
rolled, and also adds +1 to the roll of the effect die.
Important: No matter how many traits or effects apply, the 
attacker always gets to roll at least 1 die, unless the target is 
Immune to the damage type of the attack. 
Add or subtract all of these modifiers from the number of dice 
listed in the attack bar. Roll a number of dice equal to the final, 
modified attack value. If the attack has any possible additional 
effects listed in the attack bar (always shown as an additional 
effect box with a d12 icon), also roll the effect die at the same 
time, and add or subtract any modifiers to that roll.
READING THE ATTACK DICE
There are three possible results when you roll an 
attack die:
•	 No Damage: A blank die face indicates zero 
damage to the target.
•	 Normal Damage: A numbered face without a 
starburst is normal damage. Normal damage is 
reduced by the defender’s Armor.
•	 Critical Damage: A face with the starburst 
indicates critical damage. Critical damage 
ignores the defender’s Armor.
Example: The Beastmaster attacks an enemy 
Imp with 6 attack dice. The Imp has 2 Armor. 
The Beastmaster rolls: The Imp takes a total of 
2 damage from the attack: The 2 critical damage 
ignores its Armor, while the 1 normal damage is 
reduced to less than 1 by the Imp’s Armor (1 – 2 = 
-1), so it takes no normal damage. 
Additional Effects
If 
attack 
can 
cause 
additional effects (shown as 
an additional effects box on 
the attack bar) compare the 
roll of the d12 effect die to the 
additional effect chart in the 
attack bar. 
In the example shown, if a 6 is rolled on the effect die, the target 
would receive the Daze condition. If a 9 is rolled, the target would 
receive the Stun condition. If a 4 is rolled, no additional effects 
happen.
If an object receives a condition, find the matching condition 
marker and place it on the creature. If the effect box shows a 
condition with a number in front of it, such as “2 Burn”, then 
place 2 Burn markers on that defender. Sometimes the effect 
box will list two different effects for the same die result, such 
as “Push & Daze”. In this case the defender is both Pushed 
and receives a Dazed condition. 
See “Effects and Conditions” in the sidebar on the next page.
STEP 5: ROLL DICE
STEP 6: DAMAGE & EFFECTS
With this step an attack has officially “hit” its target. 
An attack does not “hit”, if this step is skipped (for example, 
the attack misses due to a Daze condition, or is avoided by a 
Defense) or if the attack is canceled before this step can occur 
(for example, the target uses Divine Intervention to Teleport 
away!). 
First, add up the value of all normal hits showing on the 
attack dice and subtract the target’s Armor from this total. 
If the result is more than zero, the target receives that much 
normal damage. Next, add up the value of all of the critical 
hits showing on the attack dice. This is critical damage and 
it ignores Armor. The amount of damage dealt is equal to the 
sum of the normal damage and the critical damage.
Mark the damage on the defender. The Mage records his 
damage on the status board, while a creature will use damage 
counters (see “Life and Damage” on page 14).

Some traits, such as Triplestrike, allow the attacker to make 
additional attacks against the same target. Once the first 
strike is finished, you get to make these additional strikes. 
Each additional strike is resolved, one at a time, following 
these 4 steps: Roll to Miss, Avoid Attack, Roll Dice, Damage 
and Effects. 
Note: All of these strikes are still part of the same attack 
action, and the defender will still only get one damage 
barrier attack and one counterstrike!
After the final strike is resolved, proceed to Step 8.
EFFECTS AND CONDITIONS
Spells and attacks can cause a variety of 
effects and conditions in addition to, or instead of, 
doing damage.
An effect is a brief, immediate change in the target’s 
status. No marker is needed to record an effect. For 
example, the target may be Pushed into an adjacent 
zone.
A condition is longer-lasting, and is noted by a marker 
placed on the target. Condition markers are two-sided, 
and you place the side you are using face-up on the 
target object. For example, if the target is on fire, a Burn 
marker is placed on it.
All conditions can be duplicated on the same creature. 
This may increase the effects. For example, a creature 
with two Weak Condition Markers would have -2 to all 
of its non-spell attacks. Some conditions cannot be 
increased in this way. For example, a creature that has 
the Stun condition cannot take any actions until the 
end of its next Action Phase. If it gains a second Stun 
marker, it is still Incapacitated only until the end of its 
next Action Phase.
Most conditions can be removed in a specific way. 
Some conditions are removed automatically, while 
others require an escape roll. Escape rolls are always 
made at the end of the creature’s Action Phase. Roll the 
effect die: if the roll matches the number required on the 
condition marker, it is removed. Otherwise, it remains on 
the creature until the end of its next Action Phase, when 
another escape roll can be attempted.
You can look up individual effects and conditions in the 
Codex.
 
DIRECT DAMAGE
Some effects cause direct damage. This damage 
is placed directly on the target creature. It is not an 
attack, and cannot be prevented or avoided. Armor 
and other traits, effects, and abilities cannot modify 
or reduce direct damage. 
Exception: If an object has Immunity to a damage 
type, it is not affected by direct damage of that type.
REMOVING DAMAGE
Some spells and creature abilities can remove 
damage from a creature or object.
HEALING: Healing can occur from a spell such as 
Minor Heal. Normally, you will roll a number of attack 
dice to determine the amount of damage you can 
remove. Healing ignores the target’s Armor. Critical 
and normal damage numbers on the attack dice are 
all the same when rolling for healing. 
REGENERATION: Regeneration is a type of healing 
which heals (removes) a certain amount of damage 
every round, during the Upkeep Phase. For example, 
a creature with the Regenerate 2 trait will heal two 
damage during the Upkeep Phase each round.
When 
you 
remove 
damage 
from 
your 
Mage, 
simply 
move 
the damage cube on 
your Mage status board 
down 
appropriate 
number of spaces. If you 
remove damage from 
another creature, remove 
damage counters from 
the creature card. You 
can 
never 
remove 
more damage than the 
creature currently has. 
Any excess healing or 
regeneration is lost.
Important: Only Living creatures and conjurations 
can be healed or regenerate. Nonliving objects 
have the Finite Life trait, and cannot remove 
damage in this way.
Some creatures have the ability to heal others as 
an action they can take. They have an ability bar on 
their card showing the healing icon, and the number 
of dice they roll when healing. The ability bar may list 
a range, which is the range the target must be from 
the healer. 
Example: The Asyran Cleric has an ability bar with 
the healing icon. He can target a creature 0-1 zones 
away with healing. He rolls 1 die, and removes that 
much damage from the creature.
STEP 7: ADDITIONAL STRIKES
HEALING 
ICON

DAMAGE MODIFIERS
Some objects have a trait that makes them particularly 
strong against, or vulnerable to, certain damage 
types. For example, a Knight may have the Lightning 
+2 trait, while a Demon might have the Flame -2 trait.
Many attacks show a damage type in the attack bar. 
For instance, the Lightning Bolt spell has the lightning 
icon, so it deals lightning damage.
If a creature has a trait that modifies a type of damage, the 
attacker modifies the number of dice rolled by the value 
of the trait. Also, if the attack has an additional effect, 
you add or subtract the modifier to the effect die roll.
Example: A Knight of Westlock has the Lightning +2 
trait. If you attack him with the Lightning Bolt spell, 
you roll 2 additional attack dice, and add +2 to the 
Effect Die roll to see if the knight is Dazed or Stunned. 
All damage type modifiers are cumulative, and are 
added together during an attack. If the Knight of 
Westlock was enchanted with a spell that granted 
him the Lightning -3 trait, any lightning-based attack 
would instead be reduced by 1 die (2 – 3 = -1).
DAMAGE IMMUNITY
A small number of objects are completely immune to 
a type of damage. For example, the Firebrand Imp 
has the Flame Immunity trait. If a creature is immune 
to the damage type of an attack, it is completely 
unaffected: do not roll any attack dice or the effect die 
against that defender.
 THE DAMAGE TYPES
Damage type icons which will appear in an attack bar:
REMOVAL COSTS
Most condition markers have a 
small number inside a gray circle 
printed on the marker. This is 
the removal cost for that marker. 
Some spells and abilities allow 
you to remove conditions from 
a target by paying their removal 
cost in mana. If a marker has 
no removal cost, you may not 
remove it using such a spell or 
ability. If a target has multiple condition markers and 
you only remove some of them, only the effects of 
the removed markers are negated. 
Note: You cannot simply pay the removal cost to 
remove a condition marker, you must use a spell 
or ability which allows you to remove them in this 
way. For example, the Priestess has a special 
ability which allows her to remove conditions from 
creatures. The other Mages do not have this built-
in ability and would require a spell such as Purify 
to remove certain conditions.
If the attacker hits the defender with a melee attack, and the 
defender has a damage barrier, the defender must make 
an attack with the damage barrier at this time. Note that 
an attack “hits” if it has a “Damage and Effects Step”. If the 
attacker made multiple strikes, at least one must have hit in 
order for the damage barrier to attack. If no attack hits the 
defender, then the damage barrier does not get to attack. 
The damage barrier attack is resolved using only Step 3: Roll 
Dice, and Step 6: Damage and Effects. 
Ranged attacks ignore this step. See “Damage Barriers” sidebar.
If the attacker made a melee attack on the defender, and the 
defender has a quick melee attack with the Counterstrike 
trait, the defender may choose to counterstrike the attacker at 
this time. This is a “free” quick melee attack against the attacker. 
The defender may counterstrike, even if the attacker’s attack 
did not hit (possibly because it missed or was avoided). 
However if the defender is destroyed earlier in the attack, it 
does not get a counterstrike.
The counterstrike attack is resolved like a normal attack, 
starting with Step 1: Declare Attack, except that no 
additional counterstrikes occur. You cannot counterstrike a 
counterstrike!
Ranged attacks skip this step.
Important: If the defender has a guard marker, it removes 
that marker at the end of this step. It does this regardless as to 
Flame: Roaring fire or searing heat, these 
attacks can cause 1 or more Burn conditions. 
Hydro: Powerful waves of water, these 
attacks can Push or Daze.
Light: Bright, holy radiance that blinds, 
these attacks can Daze or Stun, and usually 
have a bonus when attacking Nonliving 
creatures.
Lightning: Bolts of shocking electricity, 
these attacks can Daze or Stun and have 
the Ethereal trait.
Poison: Venom, toxins or diseases. Poison 
spells or attacks can cause conditions like 
Rot, Weak, or Cripple. 
Psychic: Invisible mental or telepathic effect 
or assault. Psychic spells and attacks can 
cause the Stun, Daze, or Sleep condition. 
Wind: Powerful bursts of air, these attacks 
have the Ethereal trait, and may have a 
bonus when attacking Flying creatures.
STEP 8: DAMAGE BARRIER
STEP 9: COUNTERSTRIKE

whether or not the attacker’s attacks hit. See “Counterstrike” 
sidebar on page 28.
DAMAGE BARRIERS
A damage barrier gives a defender a 
“free” automatic attack against every 
creature that hits it with a melee 
attack. This attack occurs during the 
Damage Barrier Step of an attack. 
If at least one melee attack has “hit” 
the defender, then the damage barrier 
must attack. 
A damage barrier can attack each attacker once 
each round. If an attacker makes multiple strikes, 
the damage barrier only gets to attack once after 
all the strikes are complete.
Note: A damage barrier works only against melee 
attacks. A creature that is the target of a ranged 
attack or other non-melee attack does not get to 
use its damage barrier. 
Damage barrier attacks always have the Unavoidable 
trait, and cannot be avoided by a Defense. 
Damage barriers are a special type of attack, and 
are neither melee nor ranged attacks. They only 
have 2 steps to follow when attacking: 1) Roll Dice 
and 2) Damage and Effects. They will not trigger 
another damage barrier attack or a counterstrike.
Damage barriers function automatically and do 
not require an action to be used. The damage 
barrier is making the attack (and is the source 
of the attack.) Traits, spells, and conditions that 
modify that creature’s 
attacks, including Stun, 
Daze, Weak, etc. have 
no effect on damage 
barriers. A damage 
barrier still makes 
its attack even if the 
creature was destroyed 
earlier in the same attack 
action. Traits on the 
defending creature (the 
creature the damage 
barrier is attacking) 
can modify the damage 
barrier attack (such as 
Aegis 1 or Flame +2).
Important: Each object 
can be protected by only 
one damage barrier at 
a time. If a creature has 
somehow acquired multiple damage barriers, only 
the first one counts.
COUNTERSTRIKE
After a creature is melee attacked, it may use 
any of its quick melee 
attacks that have the 
Counterstrike trait to 
make a melee attack 
against the attacker. A 
counterstrike attack is a 
“free” attack, and does 
not require the creature 
to use an action. This 
attack occurs during 
the Counterstrike Step 
of the attack.
The 
defender 
may 
counterstrike, even if 
the attacker’s attack did 
not hit.
A creature may make one counterstrike against 
each creature that attacks it with a melee attack 
(even if the attacker attacks it with more than one 
strike during the attack). Multiple Counterstrike 
traits on the same creature do not allow it to make 
additional counterstrikes.
Counterstrike is always voluntary. You are not 
forced to make the attack if you don’t want to (and 
in some cases it may be a disadvantage to attack!).
The Counterstrike can only be a single quick action 
melee attack. You may not make a full action 
melee attack or a ranged attack with Counterstrike.
Example: A Darkfenne Hydra has an attack with 
the Counterstrike trait. It chooses to guard, which 
gives all its quick melee attacks the Counterstrike 
trait. It also has a Retaliate enchantment on it, which 
also grants its attacks the Counterstrike trait. If the 
Hydra is the target of a melee attack, it still only 
gets to make a single quick melee attack, despite 
having Counterstrike on it three times.
A Counterstrike follows the normal attack process, 
starting with Step 1: Declare Attack, but it always 
skips Step 9 (Counterstrike).
Once any defending counterstrike is complete, the attack is 
over. If the attacker is using an attack with the Sweeping 
trait, or if this is a Zone Attack, make the additional 
attacks now (starting with Step 1: Declare Attack). If not, 
the attacking creature’s Action Phase is over. 
Since this is the end of the attacker’s Action Phase, you will 
now resolve any conditions on it (such as removing a Daze 
or Stun marker). 
Important: Any conditions that the attacker gained as a 
result of the defender’s damage barrier or counterstrike, if 
they have “end of Action Phase” effects, are not resolved 
at the end of this Action Phase. For example, if the defender 
Stunned the attacker with his damage barrier, leave the Stun 
marker on the attacker and do not remove it at the end of 
STEP 10: ATTACK ENDS

this Action Phase. In this manner it will remain in play and 
will have an effect 
on the attacker for his next 
A creature may use a quick action to guard. 
Place a guard marker on the creature. 
Guarding has 2 benefits:
•	 Counterstrike: While a creature is 
guarding, all of its quick action melee 
attacks gain the Counterstrike trait.
•	 Protect the Zone: If there is an enemy guard (a creature 
with a guard marker) in a zone, then you cannot melee 
attack any object in that zone other than enemy guards. 
This condition is checked when the attack is declared.
Important: Only melee attacks must consider guards. 
Attack spells and other ranged attacks ignore guards! Also, 
a creature may always attack itself, or an object attached to 
itself, ignoring all guards.
Guard markers are always removed at the beginning of 
a creature’s Action Phase. 
Using Guards
Guarding allows you to protect important creatures or 
conjurations. For example, having a few guards in the same 
zone as your Mage, allows you to direct enemy melee attacks 
to your guards, instead of your Mage. 
Removing Guards
If a guard is the target of a melee attack, you must remove 
the guard marker when the attack is complete, at the end of 
the Counterstrike Step, even if the attack did not hit. Once 
the attack is resolved, the creature is no longer guarding and 
loses both the Counterstrike trait granted by guarding and 
the ability to protect its zone. 
If your opponent has guards, the easiest way to get past 
them is to attack them with melee attacks. 
You can use weaker creatures to “engage and 
occupy” the guards, then move in and attack 
a vulnerable target with a more powerful 
creature. Choosing which creatures to engage 
and attack guards with is an important part of 
Mage Wars® tactics. 
Example: The Beastmaster is protected by a 
Steelclaw Grizzly that is guarding his zone. The 
Warlock wants to attack the Beastmaster with 
his powerful Darkpact Slayer demon, but he has 
to deal with the guard first. He sends in his pet 
werewolf, Goran, to attack the bear (1). Regardless 
of how that attack goes, the bear will lose its guard 
marker, leaving the Beastmaster open so the demon 
can attack later in the round (2). 
If a guard is not melee attacked, it may retain 
its guard marker until the start of its next 
Note: Attacking a guard has no effect on the guard’s action 
marker. If an active creature is on guard, it will still be active 
after it is attacked. This may allow a creature to attack twice 
in the same round: once with the guard counterstrike, then 
later during its own Action Phase.
IGNORING GUARDS
In some cases guards can be ignored. If an attacking 
creature can ignore a guard, it may choose to melee 
attack a different target in the zone, and it does not 
have to attack the ignored guard. 
Important: If an attacking creature can ignore a 
guard, but chooses to attack it anyway, that guard 
may still counterstrike. Some creatures may choose 
to guard even if they can be ignored, just to be able 
to counterstrike if they are attacked.
Elusive Creatures: Creatures that have the Elusive 
trait may ignore guards when choosing a target for 
a melee attack.
Restrained Guards: A guard that is Restrained 
cannot protect its zone, and can be ignored by any 
attacker.
Incapacitated: Incapacitated creatures cannot guard, 
and lose any guard marker they have.
Pests: Creatures with the Pest trait are too small or 
easily avoided. They cannot block other creatures, 
and can be ignored by any attacker. 
Sweeping Attacks: If a creature makes an attack 
with the Sweeping trait, it must attack enemy guards 
first, before it can attack any other creatures.
Flying Creatures and Guards: Guards affect a 
flying creature when it makes a melee attack, but 
only if it is attacking a non-Flying object in the 
guard’s zone. Melee attacks against other Flying 
objects always ignore guards. If a Flying creature 
guards, it loses, and cannot gain, the Flying trait for 
as long as it has the guard marker.
GUARDING

As heroes are wont to do, Brogan Bloodstone 
bravely attacks his enemy’s strongest asset: the 
Darkfenne Hydra! Brogan has been fortified with 
two enchantments: Bear Strength and Cobra 
Reflexes. The Hydra has also been enchanted with 
a Circle of Lightning. Unfortunately, Brogan has 
a Daze condition marker on him from an earlier 
attack.
Step 1: Declare Attack
Brogan announces he will attack the Hydra with his 
melee attack “Vorpal Blade.” 
Step 2: Pay Costs 
Brogan has no costs to pay.
Step 3: Roll to Miss
Brogan has to see if his Daze condition causes his 
attack to miss. He rolls the effect die. What luck! He 
rolled a 7, so he attacks normally. 
Step 4: Avoid Attack
Thankfully, the Hydra has no Defenses, so nothing 
happens in this step.
Step 5: Roll Dice
Now Brogan gets to roll the dice for his attack. 
Thanks to his powerful Bear Strength enchantment, 
Brogan receives 2 additional dice when he attacks 
and rolls 6 dice total:
Step 6: Damage and Effects
The 3 critical damage ignore Armor and score 3 
damage. The 2 normal damage would normally be 
reduced by the Hydra’s Armor, but Brogan’s attack 
has the Piercing +3 trait, so he ignores 3 points of 
Armor when he attacks! The Hydra takes a total of 
5 damage: truly a mighty blow! Damage counters 
equal to 5 damage are placed on the Hydra.
Step 7: Additional Strikes
The Hydra is no doubt relieved that Brogan only 
gets 1 strike when he attacks. Nothing happens in 
this step.
Step 8: Damage Barrier
Sadly for our hero, the Hydra has a damage barrier! 
It automatically blasts Brogan with a powerful 
lightning attack. Brogan’s Cobra Reflexes is 
useless here, since damage barrier attacks have 
the Unavoidable trait and ignore Defenses. Even 
worse, Brogan is vulnerable to lightning attacks 
(metal Armor is a great conductor!), and has the 
Lightning +2 trait, so the Hydra’s damage barrier 
is more powerful. The Hydra rolls 4 dice (2 dice + 
another 2 dice for the Lightning +2 trait):
The 1 critical damage ignores Brogan’s powerful 
Armor. The 5 normal damage is reduced by 
Brogan’s 4 Armor, and causes 1 more damage. 
Brogan receives 2 damage counters. He’s tough 
though: 2 damage is nowhere near the 11 it will 
take to kill this mighty hero.
The Circle of Lightning also has an additional effect 
roll. Because of Brogan’s Lightning +2 trait also 
adds +2 to the Hydra’s effect die roll. But Brogan 
is truly blessed! The Hydra rolls a 1, and even with 
the modifier, that’s not high enough to Daze or Stun 
Brogan.
Step 9: Counterstrike
But like the serpent it is, the Hydra won’t let Brogan 
off so easy. It has an attack with the Counterstrike 
trait, so it gets to swing back at the brave paladin. 
This time, though, the Cobra Reflexes applies. 
Brogan rolls the effect die to see if his Defense 
avoids the attack:
Brogan rolled a 10. Success! Even though he 
suffers a -2 penalty for his Defenses from the 
Daze condition, the Defense works and completely 
avoids the Hydra’s attack (10-2 = 8!). Sadly, he can 
only use the Cobra Reflexes once each round, so 
he has to flip its ready marker to the “used” side. 
For the rest of the round he will have to rely on his 
Armor and natural toughness to survive!
BROGAN VERSUS THE HYDRA

MAGES
Beastmasters specialize in calling up nature’s 
allies and empowering them to be 
more than mere beasts. Whether 
he wants to empower several large 
beasts or surround his foes with 
swarms of vermin, his enemies will 
know what it is to be hunted. He starts 
with 36 Life, a Channeling rate of 9, and 
a basic melee attack of 3 attack dice.
Quick Summoning
The 
Beastmaster’s 
Quick 
Summoning 
ability allows him to cast a Level 1 animal 
as a quick spell. He can do this just once 
per round. So, small animals like Bitterwood Foxes, 
Thunderift Falcons, and Feral Bobcats can be cast as a quick spell. 
Since it is a quick spell, he can move first before casting the 
spell, allowing him to summon animals on the run! Also, as a 
quick spell, it can be cast using his quickcast action, allowing 
the Beastmaster to potentially summon two 
creatures in a round (one 
with his quickcast action, 
and one with his regular 
action.) Of course, since 
it is a quick spell, it is also 
vulnerable to things which 
affect spells, such as the Jinx 
enchantment.
Welcome to the advanced part of the rulebook. You should 
only read these rules if you have played a few games using the 
Apprentice Mode (see page 2). When you are ready, upgrade 
to using these special rules for Mages and Spellbooks.
There are several differences between Mages in Apprentice 
Mode and in the full game. For example: each of the Mages 
listed below has their own unique attributes that you should 
mark on your status board when you play. Note: They still 
start with 10 mana in their mana supply. They also have their 
own unique abilities listed below. You’ll need to play with 
their Ability Cards. All the information you need about the 
Mages’ abilities and attributes can be found on their Ability 
Card, and explained further below. Also, in the full game, we 
play on the entire arena, not just half.
The Mage Ability Card
Each Mage comes with his own matching Ability Card 
which tells you everything you need to know about your 
Mage:
•	 Class: Beastmaster, Priestess, Warlock, or Wizard, each 
type of Mage has unique abilities and advantages.
•	 Spellpoints: This is how many points you can spend to 
build your Mage’s spellbook. See “Training” on page 35.
•	 Life: The maximum amount of damage your Mage can 
take before being destroyed. Place a black status cube on 
this space of your Mage status board.
•	 Armor: Armor reduces the damage from attacks. Most 
Mages start with no armor.
•	 Channeling: The amount of mana your Mage generates 
each round. Place a black status cube on this space of 
your Mage status board.
•	 Subclass: Each Mage Ability card has a subclass. Future 
expansions of the game will provide new subclass 
ability cards, each with new abilities and attributes.
•	 Type and Subtype: All cards have a type that 
determines how it behaves in the arena. Your Mage is a 
creature, which means he may move around the arena 
and take actions. Note, for all purposes, your Mage is a 
Level 6 creature. 
	
He also has a “subtype”, which is his “race”. For 
example, the Wizard is “human”. 
•	 Training: These are the schools of magic the Mage is 
trained in. See “Training” on page 35.
•	 Abilities: These are special abilities unique to each 
Mage. Read the abilities for your Mage carefully, and be 
sure to take advantage of them during your game! Note 
that some abilities use special markers (Pet, Bloodreaper, 
and Voltaric Shield). 
•	 Attacks: This information is used when your Mage 
makes an attack.

Beastmaster Pet
The Beastmaster has the ability to bond an animal to be his 
personal Pet. When a friendly animal creature is Summoned, 
the Beastmaster can make it his Pet. He does this by placing 
his special “Pet” marker on the animal and paying mana 
equal to the animal’s Level+1. 
This is done immediately at the 
time the animal is Summoned, 
regardless of range or LoS.
For example, if a friendly Timber 
Wolf is Summoned, the Beastmaster 
can choose to make it is his Pet. 
Since the Timber Wolf is a Level 2 
creature, this will cost him 3 mana 
to make it his Pet (Level 2 + 1 = 3 
mana).
Note: The Pet marker can be assigned to any new friendly 
animal when it comes into play, regardless as to how it was 
Summoned. For example, it might have been Summoned by 
the Beastmaster’s Lair.
The Pet marker makes the animal larger and stronger than 
normal, and gives the 
creature these bonuses: It 
gains the Melee +1 trait, 
and also gains Armor +1 
and Life +3. Because the 
Pet is a ferocious protector 
of his master, the Pet also 
gains an additional Melee 
+1 trait when in the same 
zone as his Beastmaster.
The Beastmaster can only 
have one Pet at a time, 
and thus has only one Pet 
marker. The Pet marker 
stays with the animal, 
until 
animal 
is 
destroyed, at which point 
the Pet marker returns to 
the Beastmaster, where it 
can be used to assign to a new animal later.
Note: the Pet marker can only be assigned to a non-Legendary 
animal creature.
Battle Skill
The Beastmaster has some battle 
expertise and is fairly strong. Thus 
he has the “Melee +1” trait. This 
means he adds 1 to the attack dice 
when he makes a melee attack. 
This includes his basic melee 
attack, which means he actually 
rolls 4 dice when he uses his basic 
melee attack.
 
The Priestess is Asyra’s will manifested on 
Etheria. She calls the strongest devotees 
in Westlock to her side, and keeps them 
fighting through Asyra’s blessing. 
Whether by surviving the enemy’s 
most brutal assaults or bringing 
divine vengeance upon her foes, 
the Priestess will bring only victory. 
She starts with 32 Life, a Channeling 
rate of 10, and a basic melee attack of 3 
attack dice.
Divine Reward
Asyra rewards the Priestess each 
round for healing and protecting 
her forces. Once per round, whenever 
the Priestess casts and resolves a Holy incantation spell, or 
reveals a Holy enchantment spell, she gains 1 Life.
This ability is fairly self-explanatory, and generally the 
Priestess will be casting lots of Holy spells, which will help 
heal and protect her forces. Note: She does not gain Life for 
casting creature, conjuration, equipment, or attack spells.
Note: This Life gain is different 
from healing damage. Life is 
the total amount of damage 
you can take before being 
destroyed. So, by gaining Life, 
the Priestess has permanently 
made herself stronger, making 
her harder to destroy. This 
is superior to simply trying to heal herself after suffering 
damage. Healing will remove damage, but it does not restore 
or increase your Life total.
Restore
The Priestess has the ability to restore and renew her 
creatures; quenching fires, removing poisons, or taking 
away the effects of stunning lightning bolts. She can remove 
condition markers from creatures, such as Burn, Daze, Stun, 
Rot, Weak, Cripple, and Sleep.
This ability basically gives the Priestess two repeatable spells 
she can cast:
1) The first is a quick spell (requires 
a quick action to cast it), which 
targets a creature within 1 zone 
of the Priestess and removes one 
condition marker on that creature 
by paying its removal cost.
2) The second is a full spell (requires 
a full action to cast it), which targets 
a creature within 1 zone of the 

Priestess and removes any number of condition markers on 
that creature by paying the sum of all of their removal costs.
Note that neither of these spells counts as 
a Holy spell and will not trigger her Divine 
Reward ability. She can cast these spells 
as if the spell cards for them were always 
in her hand as part of her planned spells 
each round. Unlike a spell card, it is not 
“discarded” after it is cast. She can cast 
them again and again, as often as she is able.
The removal cost for each condition is 
printed on the marker as a small black number inside a gray 
circle. For example: the removal cost for Stun is 4 mana.
Born of pain and determination, the 
Warlock aligned himself with demons. 
A master of fire, he will incinerate those 
who stand against him. Through vile 
blood rituals he will toy with his 
opponents, debilitating them 
with curses, and engaging in 
lethal demonic pacts. Perhaps it 
is his day to die, but the Warlock 
knows well that he will see his 
enemy’s last breath before his 
own escapes his lips. He starts 
with 38 Life, a Channeling rate 
of 9, and a basic melee attack of 
3 attack dice.
Curseweaving
Curseweaving enables the Warlock 
to re-use curse enchantments, after 
the creature they are attached to 
is destroyed. Once per round, if a 
creature that you have a curse on 
is destroyed, you can return that 
curse to your spellbook rather than 
put it in the discard pile.
You can only return one curse per 
round to your spellbook. So, if the 
creature that dies has 3 of your curses 
on it, you must choose only one of them to return to your 
spellbook. Or if several creatures die in the same round, each 
having one or more of your curses on them, you still can only 
salvage just one curse.
Bloodreaper
The Warlock is able to sacrifice some of his Life to form a 
blood pact with one of his Summoned demons.
When a friendly demon creature is Summoned, the Warlock 
can make it his Bloodreaper. He does this by placing his 
special “Bloodreaper” marker on 
the demon, and losing Life equal 
to the demon’s Level+1. This is 
done immediately at the time the 
demon is Summoned, regardless of 
range or LoS.. The Warlock moves 
his Life status marker down on his 
Mage status board to record the 
amount of Life he has lost.
For example, if a friendly Darkpact Slayer is Summoned, the 
Warlock can choose to make it is his Bloodreaper. Since the Darkpact 
Slayer is a Level 3 creature, this will cost him 4 Life to make it his 
Bloodreaper (Level 3 + 1 = 4 Life).
Note: This loss of Life is different from receiving damage. 
Life is the total amount of damage you can take before being 
destroyed. So, by losing Life, the Warlock has permanently 
weakened himself, making himself easier to be destroyed. 
Healing damage will remove damage, but it does not restore 
or increase your Life total.
Note: The Bloodreaper marker can be assigned to any new 
friendly demon when it comes into play, regardless as to 
how it was Summoned. For example, it might have been 
Summoned by the Warlock’s Pentagram.
The Bloodreaper marker turns the demon into a ferocious 
predator. It has a savage lust for blood, and will actively seek 
out any bleeding creature and attack it in a maniacal frenzy. 
The Bloodreaper gains the Bloodthirsty +2 trait. This means 
that anytime it attacks a damaged Living creature, it gains 
2 additional attack dice. This 
occurs once per attack action. 
Furthermore, because of its 
lust for blood, it must choose 
to attack a damaged Living 
creature in its zone, if there is 
one. This gives an opportunity 
for opponents to “lure” the 
Bloodreaper into attacking a 
different target, perhaps one 
who is less important, or that 
has a Defense.
Additionally, this special blood 
pact allows the Warlock to 
benefit from the bloodletting 
by stealing some of the life force 
of the Bloodreaper’s victim. The first time each round that 
the Bloodreaper attacks and damages a Living creature, the 
Warlock may heal up to 2 damage from himself. If he has no 
damage to remove, then he does not gain any benefit from 
that attack.
The Warlock can only have one Bloodreaper at a time and 
thus has only one Bloodreaper marker. The Bloodreaper 
marker stays with the demon until it is destroyed. At this 
point, the Bloodreaper marker returns to the Warlock, 
allowing him to assign it to a new demon later. Note that 
each new Bloodreaper reduces the Warlock’s Life further - 

and while the Warlock has many ways to heal, it is much 
harder for him to gain Life.
Note: The Bloodreaper marker can only be assigned to a 
non-Legendary demon creature.
Battle Skill
The Warlock is a strong frontline fighter. 
Thus he has the “Melee +1” trait. This 
means he adds 1 to the attack dice when 
he makes a melee attack. This includes 
his basic melee attack, which means he 
actually rolls 4 dice when he uses his basic 
melee attack.
Wizards believe that true 
strength in magic comes from 
the mysterious plane of Voltari. 
With their understanding of the 
arcane they can flexibly use 
any of the elements to defeat 
their opponents. Through their 
control of mana, they increase 
their own supply while limiting 
their opponent’s. As a distraction, 
they Summon from a variety of 
fantastic and bizarre creatures, 
and will bind themselves to an 
elemental school. They understand 
that battles are won with tactics, not 
brute force. He starts with 32 Life, 
a Channeling rate of 10, and a basic 
melee attack of 3 attack dice.
Voltaric Shield
The Wizard has a built-in “Mana Shield”, an invisible energy 
field that surrounds and protects him, stopping damage from 
enemy attacks. The shield is either turned “on” or “off”, and 
a shield marker is used to keep track of this (one side says 
“on”, and the other “off”).
The Voltaric Shield can be activated (turned on) by paying 
2 mana during the Upkeep Phase at the beginning of each 
game round. If activated, simply flip the shield marker to 
the “on” side. Now the Wizard has some protection for the 
coming game round.
The Shield prevents up to 3 damage from the very first attack 
which deals damage to the Mage each round. As soon as that 
attack is complete, the shield is “used up” and is flipped to its 
“off” side. The attack has to deal at least one point of damage 
to the Wizard in order to trigger and use the shield, and this 
damage is counted after armor has already taken effect. If 
the attack deals no damage to the Wizard (for example, all 
damage is absorbed by armor, or the attack is blocked by a 
Defense), the shield is not used. If the attack deals only 1 or 2 
damage, all of that damage is prevented, but the shield is still 
used up (the unused points of damage reduction do not carry 
over into a future attack).
Note that Voltaric Shield only protects against attacks, not 
from direct damage. The Wizard can still receive damage 
from effects which deal direct damage, such as the Ghoul 
Rot curse, burn damage 
from a Burn condition, 
or spells like Drain Life.
The shield’s power has 
a very short duration 
- whether the shield is 
used or not that round, 
it is always turned off 
at the end of the round. 
The Mage will have to 
spend 2 mana to reactivate it for the next round.
Arcane Zap
The Wizard is the only Mage in the core set with his own 
built-in magical attack spell, Arcane Zap. This is a very 
simple and useful attack spell, producing a small bolt of 
eldritch power. The Wizard uses it just as if he had chosen 
an attack spell card for his hand during the planning phase 
called “Arcane Zap.” Arcane Zap can be cast just once each 
game round. Unlike a card spell, it is not discarded after it 
is cast. He can use it again every round! Arcane Zap costs 1 
mana each time it is cast. The Wizard subtracts this from his 
mana supply just like casting any spell.
It is a ranged attack, with a range of 0-1 zones. So, the 
Wizard can target any creature or conjuration in his zone, or 
one zone away. 
The attack deals 3 dice of damage. It also has the Ethereal 
trait, which makes it effective against Incorporeal objects like 
the Whirling Spirit or a Fog Bank.
Because it is a quick spell, the Wizard uses a quick action to 
cast it, which means it can be used with his normal action 
or with his Quickcast action. Of course, the fact that Arcane 
Zap is a spell also means that it can be countered or affected 
by spells like Jinx.
See more information on these abilities, including 
strategies and tactics, at WWW.MAGEWARS.COM.

To truly experience Mage Wars, you need to create your 
own unique spellbook. Your custom spellbook is made up 
of the spells you choose, so you can explore many different 
Mage Wars strategies. 
Every player has his own “library” of spells: all of the 
spell cards that you have in your collection. When you 
design your own spellbook, you can use any of the cards 
in your library. You might create many different spellbooks 
in your library, perhaps several different spellbooks for 
each Mage.
Your Mage’s ability card tells you what limitations you must 
follow when you build your spellbook. This information is 
presented at the top of the card and includes:
•	 Maximum Spell Points
•	 Training
Maximum Spell Points
When you build your spellbook, you get to spend your 
Mage’s spell points to purchase the spell cards you want 
to include. You may not spend more Spell Points than the 
Maximum Spell Point total listed on your Ability Card.
Every spell in Mage Wars has a spell Level. This value is 
a rough indicator of how powerful that spell is and how 
difficult it is to cast. Each spell is also part of one or more 
schools of magic. 
The number of spell points you must spend to add a spell to 
your spellbook is determined by the spell Level, and which 
schools of magic your Mage is trained in.
Training
Your Mage is trained in one or more schools of magic. These 
are the spells that are easiest for your Mage to learn. If you 
add a spell from a trained school into your spellbook, you 
must spend spell points equal to the Level of the spell.
If you add a spell from a school your Mage is not trained 
in, you must spend spell points equal to twice the Level of 
the spell.
Some spells belong to more than one school of magic. Spells 
which belong to multiple schools with an “OR” symbol 
joining the schools allow you to choose which school you 
must use for that spell. Their spell Level is the Level listed 
for any of those schools. For example, the Elemental Wand spell 
is a Level 2 spell, and is either Earth, Water, Air, or Fire. So, a 
Warlock can treat it as a Fire spell and add it to his spellbook for 
just 2 spell points, since he is trained in Fire magic.
Some spells belong to several schools and have an “&” symbol 
joining the schools. For these spells, you must pay the cost 
for all the schools. The Level for these spells is the sum of 
all the Levels for each school listed. For example, Adramelech 
is both a Level 2 Fire spell and a Level 4 Dark spell. Therefore, 
Adramelech is a Level 6 spell (2 
Fire + 4 Dark). The Wizard, 
who is trained in Fire magic, 
but not Dark magic, would 
have to pay a total of 10 spell 
points to add this demon 
to his spellbook [(4 X 2) 
Dark + (2) Fire]. The 
Warlock, who trained 
in both Dark and Fire 
schools, would only pay 
6 spell points.
Some 
Mages 
are 
opposed to particular 
schools 
of 
magic. 
These are listed under 
the training section of 
their ability card. For 
example, the Warlock 
must pay three times 
the spell points to 
add a Holy spell to his 
spellbook.
Example: The Beastmaster is trained in Nature Magic. He may 
purchase a Level 3 Nature spell for 3 spell points. He is not trained 
in War magic, so he would have to pay 6 spell points to add a 
Level 3 War spell. Because of the destructive nature of fire, the 
Beastmaster is opposed to the Fire school. He pays 3 times the cost 
for Fire spells (see the training section of his ability card). He must 
pay 9 Spell Points to add a Level 3 Fire Spell.

BUILDING YOUR 
FIRST SPELLBOOK
Here are a few useful spells that you might consider 
including in your first spellbook:
•	 Equipment: Mage Wand, Elemental Wand, 
Moonglow Amulet, a Weapon, some Armor, and 
maybe a spell that gives you a Defense.
•	 Incantations: Dispel, Minor Heal, Dissolve, and 
a few utility spells like Force Push, Teleport, 
Charge, or Knockdown.
•	 Conjurations: A Spawnpoint, Mana Crystals or 
Mana Flowers, and perhaps a couple Walls.
•	 Creatures: Everyone can use a little creature 
support! Try a few low Level creatures and at 
least one larger one.
•	 Attacks: Include a few attack spells. A zone 
attack spell can be very powerful at the right 
moment!
•	 Enchantments: Some augmenting spells (such 
as Rhino Hide or Bear Strength), and some that 
control or hamper enemy creatures.
How Many Copies Of A Spell 
Can I Have In My Spellbook?
Since each spell can be used only once during the game, you 
may want to include additional copies of key spells. You 
may include up to 6 copies of each Level 1 spell in your 
spellbook, and up to 4 copies of all higher-level spells.
Spell Traits That Affect Your Spellbook
Some spell traits affect how you may add those spells to your 
spellbook. These traits are colored grey on the spell cards, to 
help you identify them when building your spellbook. These 
traits normally have no affect during the game, and can be 
ignored during play.
Mage Class Only: Some spells are restricted to a specific 
class of Mage. You may not include these spells in your 
spellbook , nor can you cast or control these spells, unless 
you are playing that type of Mage. For example, the Lair says 
Beastmaster Only, so a Priestess can never include a Lair in 
her spellbook, nor could she take control of it.
School of Magic Only: Some spells can only be cast by a 
Mage that is trained in a specific school of magic. You may 
not include these spells in your spellbook , nor can you cast 
or control these spells, unless the Mage you are playing has 
the proper training. For example, the Temple of Asyra says 
Holy Mage Only, so only Mages trained in Holy magic, like 
the Priestess, can use or control this spell.
Note: If you are restricted from a spell due to a “Mage Class 
Only” or “School of Magic Only” restriction, you cannot 
cast or control that spell during the course of the game. For 
example, a Wizard cannot use a Steal Enchantment spell to 
steal a Death Link enchantment (which is Dark Mage Only.)
Epic Spells: Spells that have the Epic trait are extremely 
difficult to master, even though they may be a low spell 
Level. You may only have 1 copy of each Epic spell in your 
spell book.
Novice Spells: These are relatively simple spells with a low 
mana cost and limited effect, but they can be very useful to 
a Mage. Any Mage may purchase any Novice spell for just 1 
spell point, regardless of school.

Earth School
With the steadfast endurance of stone be 
armed. Command rock and metal to obey. 
Forge power from the very strength of earth. 
Who can move the mountains?
Water School
Train in the infinite malleability of water. 
Water is a crashing wave, a frozen lake, 
and a steaming geyser. It is inevitable in its 
persistence, and unpredictable in its method. 
Who can hold back the flood?
Air School
Reach into the sky and pull down thunder 
and lighting. Summon the forces of the 
gale to sunder the enemy. Air is invisible, 
forceful, and fickle. It strikes with the rage 
of a tornado, then instantly calms into 
a gentle breeze. Who can contain the 
hurricane?
Fire School
A spark, a flame, a firestorm. Fire is 
an insatiable hunger, an all consuming 
force. It is a hunger to be unleashed on 
a docile world. Flames will consume all 
on the path, and eventually the path as 
well. Who can withstand the inferno?
THE SCHOOLS OF MAGIC
There are six primary or “major” schools of magic, and four elemental or “minor” schools:
Dark School
With a word, curses wither enemies to 
dust. Their lifeblood pours forth, and 
with Dark magic one drinks of this river. 
Under the weight of pestilence, pain, and 
death enemies will buckle. Demons from 
deep within Etheria answer the call of the blood rites. 
Ravenous vampires and animated corpses stir from 
their graves. Life enforces no laws here. For the price 
of a mere soul, unbreakable pacts signed in blood grant 
ultimate power. 
Holy School
Darkness recoils from the light of Asyra. 
Disciples of Holy magic wield a cleansing 
light. When turned upon the righteous they 
bolster their strength, steel their resolve, 
and bind their wounds. Turned against the 
impure, it is a pure white light burning away 
all of their iniquity. Valorous soldiers and virtuous angels 
answer the prayers. When standing before this holy 
assembly is there any doubt of Asyra’s grace?
Nature School
The power of Nature is unmatched even 
unto other realms. Become one with its fury 
and mete out its vengeance. Predators of 
the land heed the call. Hunting wolf packs 
and giant bears from the North. Great cats 
and vicious apes from the South. With 
Nature’s blessings, allies become stronger, faster, and 
more ferocious. Nature is true power, raw and unfettered.
Mind School
True power originates within the self. 
Voltari can move objects, but the 
mind can move mountains. Create 
perfect illusions in which to trap foes. 
Forge weapons of pure thought. Turn 
enemies into allies by your force of 
will. When power comes from within, one can never be 
disarmed.
Arcane School
Voltari is magic. A simple truth taking 
lifetimes to master. By watching the 
flows of magic, one can see the Arcane. 
Then bend the tides of mana. A subtle 
magic weaving its way though all others. 
This is the cornerstone upon which all other schools 
build. With this understanding one can sap their mana 
and ignore their spells. Arcane allows you to summon 
strange unearthly beasts forged by arcane manipulation. 
Arcane is the foundation, and when it 
moves all others tremble.
War School
Strife, conflict, struggle: These are the 
forces that fuel War magic. Through 
struggle one becomes inured to its 
hardships, stronger than legions, and 
armed for destruction. Formations of 
soldiers answer the call to arms. Gifts of ancient armors 
and deadly weapons will adorn one trained in War. 
So armed, stride into the crucible of war, confident in 
dominance.
THE PRIMARY SCHOOLS
THE ELEMENTAL SCHOOLS

1 Bearskin Armor
1 Elemental Cloak
1 Regrowth Belt
1 Ring of Beasts
1 Staff of Beasts
1 Lair
3 Mana Flower
1 Mohktari
1 Rajan’s Fury
3 Tanglevine
1 Tooth & Nail
2 Wall of Thorns
3 Bitterwood Fox
1 Cervere, The Forest Shadow
1 Emerald Tegu
2 Feral Bobcat
1 Mountain Gorilla
1 Redclaw, Alpha Male
1 Sosruko, Ferret Companion
1 Steelclaw Grizzly
2 Thunderift Falcon
3 Timber Wolf
2 Bear Strength
1 Block
1 Bull Endurance
1 Cheetah Speed
1 Cobra Reflexes
1 Eagle Wings
1 Mongoose Agility
1 Nullify
1 Retaliate
2 Rhino Hide
1 Battle Fury
2 Call of the Wild
1 Charge
2 Dispel
1 Heal
1 Knockdown
1 Piercing Strike
1 Perfect Strike
1 Rouse the Beast
1 Shift Enchantment
2 Geyser
1 Jet Stream
1 Demonhide Armor
1 Elemental Wand
1 Fireshaper Ring
1 Helm of Fear
1 Lash of Hellfire
1 Leather Gloves
1 Moloch’s Torment
1 Ring of Curses
1 Battleforge
2 Mana Crystal
1 Pentagram
2 Wall of Fire
1 Adramelech, Lord of Fire
2 Dark Pact Slayer
2 Darkfenne Bat
2 Firebrand Imp
2 Flaming Hellion
1 Goran, Werewolf Pet
1 Malacoda
1 Necropian Vampiress
2 Skeletal Sentry
1 Agony
1 Bear Strength
1 Chains of Agony
1 Death Link
2 Enfeeble
1 Force Orb
2 Ghoul Rot
1 Hellfire Trap
1 Magebane
1 Maim Wings
1 Poisoned Blood
1 Vampirism
1 Drain Life
1 Evade
2 Explode
1 Seeking Dispel
1 Teleport
2 Vampiric Strike
2 Fireball
1 Firestorm
2 Flameblast
1 Ring of Fire
1 Arcane Ring
1 Dragonscale Hauberk
1 Elemental Wand
1 Leather Boots
1 Moonglow Amulet
1 Staff of the Arcanum
1 Suppression Cloak
2 Mana Crystal
1 Mana Siphon
2 Poison Gas Cloud
2 Blue Gremlin
1 Darkfenne Hydra
1 Gorgon Archer
1 Huginn, Raven Familiar
2 Mana Leech
1 Moonglow Faerie
1 Stonegaze Basilisk
1 Block
1 Circle of Lightning
2 Decoy
2 Essence Drain
1 Force Hold
1 Force Sword
1 Harmonize
1 Jinx
2 Nullify
1 Reverse Attack
1 Reverse Magic
1 Teleport Trap
1 Banish
2 Dissolve
1 Drain Power
1 Purge Magic
2 Seeking Dispel
1 Steal Enchantment
2 Teleport
1 Chain Lightning
1 Electrify
2 Jet Stream
3 Lightning Bolt
1 Thunderbolt
1 Crown of Protection
1 Dawnbreaker Ring
1 Deflection Bracers
1 Ivarium Longbow
1 Moonglow Amulet
1 Ring of Asyra
1 Staff of Asyra
1 Wind Wyvern Hide
1 Hand of Bim-Shalla
2 Mana Flower
1 Temple of Asyra
3 Asyran Cleric
1 Brogan Bloodstone
1 Gray Angel
1 Highland Unicorn
2 Knight of Westlock
2 Royal Archer
1 Valshalla, Lightning Angel
2 Block
1 Bull Endurance
1 Divine Intervention
2 Divine Protection
1 Hawkeye
1 Nullify
2 Pacify
1 Retaliate
1 Rhino Hide
1 Sacred Ground
2 Dissolve
2 Heal
1 Lay Hands
1 Perfect Strike
1 Purge Magic
1 Purify
1 Resurrection
1 Blinding Flash
2 Pillar of Light
CONJURATIONS
STARTING SPELLBOOKS
After you’ve played a few Apprentice Mode games and you feel ready, we recommend using these new spellbooks. They are 
not recommended for first time players. These spellbooks were designed using the rules for building spellbooks, so they are 
“legal” for any games. You can modify or “tweak” these basic spellbooks, or design your own from scratch, whichever you 
prefer! Note: You can build all four of these spellbooks at once with the spell cards provided in this core set.

Mage Wars was designed for two players, but you can 
easily play with more. Playing with 3-4 players at once 
adds a lot of fun and exciting new tactics to the game. You 
can play as teams, or in a grand free-for-all, the choice is up 
to you! Playing with more players requires a few changes 
to the game:
Additional Core Set: In order to play a four player game 
as intended, you will want to have access to an additional 
game board, status board, spellbooks, and spell cards. This 
will maximize your four player experience. 
Passing Initiative: During the Initiative Phase, pass the 
initiative marker to the player on your left. If this is a team 
game, be sure to be sitting so that the initiative will go 
back and forth between each team (don’t allow teams to 
retain the initiative 2 players in a row).
Turn Order: During the Action Stage, turns pass 
clockwise starting with the player who has the initiative. 
When it is your turn to take an Action Phase, you may pass 
if any of the other players has more active creatures in the 
arena than you.
Team Games: Make sure to sit so that the teams are sitting 
in alternating positions: team A, team B, team A, team B, 
etc. That way each team will have a chance to react, rather 
than an entire team taking their Action Phases back-to-
back. To win a team game, your team must eliminate all of 
the opposing team’s Mages. 
When playing a team game, all players on one side are 
treated as a single player controlling multiple Mages. Be 
sure to share information between players on the same 
team. For example that team can only have one copy of an 
enchantment on the same target (hidden or revealed). Each 
player may have one copy of a Unique spell in play, even if 
playing on the same team.
A single arena board is big enough for a 4 player team 
game, but you can put 2 together if you want more space. 
Teams start in opposite corners from each other (just like 
the 2 player game), with both mages of the same team in 
the same zone together.
It is best if you use unique colors for action markers for each 
player. You can use tokens for the additional colors, or buy 
a set of additional Mage Wars® Action Markers (green 
and yellow). 
Free-For-All Games: During a free-for-all game, the 
winner is the last Mage standing. You are free to negotiate 
and make deals, but there is no rule that prevents you 
from breaking them! Feel free to backstab, double-cross, 
or otherwise manipulate your opponents so you can claim 
supremacy in the arena!
Suggestion: Put 2 arena game boards together side by side 
to create a 6 zone by 4 zone arena. Ignore the wall in the 
middle between the boards.
CHAPTER NINE: MULTIPLAYER
MULTIPLAYER

Activate
When you choose to take an Action Phase with a creature you activate it. Flip 
its action marker over, and remove any guard marker on it. 
Aegis X
All attacks made against this object subtract X attack dice before rolling. Attacks 
cannot be reduced below 1 die. The Aegis trait does not stack. This trait cannot 
reduce an attack below one die.
Arena
The arena is the area the battle is fought in, and consists of all of the zones on 
the game board. If a spell targets the arena it affects all of the zones in the arena 
regardless of range or LoS.
Armor
During an attack, Armor is subtracted from the normal damage rolled 
on the attack dice. It does not reduce critical damage. If an object’s 
Armor icon has a red slash across it, that object cannot have armor at any time.
Armor +/- X 
Modifies an Armor attribute by +/- X. Armor cannot be reduced below 0. 
Attached
A spell or marker can be attached to a zone or object. Normally, it will move 
with that object, although conjurations are destroyed if the object Teleports. 
Only one spell of the same name can be attached to the same zone or object. 
Attack Action
An attack action is a creature’s action (quick or full) used to make an attack. An 
attack action might make multiple separate attacks against the same defender 
(see “Doublestrike” and “Triplestrike” in the Codex) or against different 
defenders (see “Sweeping” and “Zone Attacks” in the Codex). All of these 
multiple attacks are still considered one attack action.
Bashed
When a creature is Pushed into a wall with the Passage Blocked trait it is 
Bashed. It receives an Unavoidable attack of 3 attack dice of damage. The walls 
around the outside of the arena have the Passage Blocked trait. 
Blocks LoS
This Wall blocks Line of Sight. You cannot target an object or a zone 
if the Line of Sight is blocked. See “LoS” on page 17.
Bloodthirsty +X
This creature is a savage predator with a lust for blood. This creature gains +X 
attack dice when it makes a melee attack against a Living creature with 1 or 
more damage. If the attack makes multiple attacks during the same attack 
action, it gains this bonus only for the first attack it can make with this bonus. 
If there is a damaged Living enemy creature in the Bloodthirsty creature’s 
zone during its Action Phase, it must melee attack that creature (if possible). If 
there is more than one choice, or it has also been Taunted, it can choose which 
creature to attack.
Burn
Object is on fire. This is a flame condition. Each Upkeep Phase, 
roll 1 attack die of direct damage for each Burn marker on each 
object. On a roll of “0,” remove that Burn marker. Burn markers 
have a removal cost of 2. 
Burnproof
Cannot have the Burn condition. May be vulnerable to flame damage, but 
cannot “burn”. All Incorporeal objects are Burnproof.
Cancel
If a spell, attack, or effect is canceled, it stops and has no further effect. 
Channeling 
Some objects have a Channeling attribute, which is how much mana they 
collect each round during the Channeling Phase. 
Channeling +/- X 
Modifies a creature’s Channeling attribute by +/- X. Channeling 
cannot be reduced below 0. Modifies only existing Channeling, 
it has no effect an object without a Channeling attribute. 
Charge +X
Creature gains +X attack dice for its very next melee attack, if it makes that 
attack immediately after it takes a move action, and moves at least 1 zone.
Climbing
Creature may take a special full action to climb over any Corporeal wall and 
move into the adjacent zone. If the wall has the Passage Attacks trait, it 
attacks the creature before it moves. 
Condition
Conditions are various states that can occur for objects, and are indicated 
with markers placed on the object. All conditions stack and their effects are 
cumulative. See “Effects & Conditions” on page 26.
Conjuration
All conjurations have these traits; Nonliving, Pyschic Immunity, and 
Unmovable. See “Conjurations” on page 16.
Controller
Each spell or object in the game is controlled by the player who cast it. The 
controller may use and act with that object, and makes all decisions and choices 
for that spell or any abilities that object may have. Exception: Equipment is 
controlled by the Mage it is attached to.
Corporeal
Corporeal objects are normal, physical objects. All creatures and conjurations 
are Corporeal, unless they have the Incorporeal trait. 
Counter
A spell which has been countered does not resolve. It is destroyed and goes 
to the discard pile. All costs and actions spent to cast the spell are lost, unless 
otherwise noted.
Counterstrike
If a creature is the defender of a melee attack, and it has a quick action melee 
attack with the Counterstrike trait, it may use that attack against the attacker 
during the Counterstrike Step of the attack. See “Counterstrike” on page 28. 
Creature
A creature is an object in the game which can take actions and has an action 
marker. All creatures are Living (unless they have the Nonliving trait). See 
“Creatures” on page 14.
Cripple
This is a poison condition. Creature is Restrained. At the end 
of each of its Action Phases, even if it is Incapacitated, the 
Crippled creature may attempt an escape roll for each Cripple 
condition on it: on a roll of 7 or higher, remove Cripple. Cripple 
has a removal cost of 4. Cannot affect conjurations. 
Critical Damage
Critical damage bypasses Armor (Armor does not reduce the damage dealt). 
Critical damage is shown as numbers inside a starburst on the attack dice.
Damage Barrier
A damage barrier surrounds an object and makes an automatic 
attack against each enemy which hits the object with a melee 
attack. See “Damage Barriers” on page 28.
Damage Type
Damage can belong to a certain type - such as flame or lightning. See “Damage 
Types” on page 27.
Damage Type +/- X
Attacks against this object, which match this damage type, modify the number 
CODEX

of attack dice rolled by X, and modify the effect die roll by X. Damage type 
modifiers are cumulative. An attack cannot be reduced below 1 die. See 
“Damage Modifiers” on page 27.
Daze
Creature is disoriented and/or blinded. Whenever this creature 
makes an attack, roll the effect die during the Roll to Miss Step. If 
the result is 7 or higher, the attack continues normally. If the result 
is 6 or less, the attack “misses” its target. If it makes a Zone Attack, only check 
once: the entire attack either fails or succeeds. If a creature has more than one 
Daze on it, roll only one time to see if the creature misses. In addition, the Dazed 
creature suffers a -2 penalty to all Defense rolls for each Daze marker it has. All 
Daze markers are removed at the end of the creature’s Action Phase. Daze has a 
removal cost of 2. Conjurations cannot be Dazed.
Defender
A creature or conjuration which is being attacked. They may not necessarily be 
the target of that attack (see “Zone Attack” in the Codex).
Defense
Some objects have a Defense attribute, which represents an ability to 
avoid an attack. The number on the Defense is what you must roll, 
or higher, on 1d12, to avoid an attack. See “Defenses” on page 24.
Defrost
This is a trait of flame attacks. It will be defined in a future expansion of the game 
in which frost damage is introduced.
Destroyed
A destroyed object is removed from play and is placed in the owner’s discard 
pile. Creatures and conjurations are destroyed when the amount of damage on 
them is equal to or greater than their Life total. Objects can also be destroyed 
when a specific spell or effect destroys them. 
Direct Damage
Damage that is put directly on a creature. The damage is critical (bypasses 
armor). It is not considered an attack, and the creature cannot use a Defense to 
avoid the damage. See “Direct Damage” on page 26.
Discard Pile
Each player has his own discard pile where he places destroyed objects or 
discarded spells after they are cast. See “Discarding Spells” on page 13.
Doublestrike
This attack makes a second attack against the same target as part of the same 
attack action. The additional attack occurs during the Additional Strikes Step. 
Effect Die
The 12-sided die is called the effect die, and it is used to roll for 
additional effects for attacks, as well as escape rolls, or other rolls.
Elusive
This creature is quick and slippery. This creature ignores enemy creatures. 
Enemy creatures cannot hinder its movement. It is not required to attack enemy 
guards when making a melee attack. 
Enemy
An enemy object is one which is currently controlled by your opponent(s). 
Epic
Only 1 copy of this spell can be in a Mage’s spellbook.
Escape Roll
Some conditions or enchantments require an escape roll, using the effect die, to 
see if you can remove them from the creature they are attached to. 
This attack is magically enhanced. It deals full damage to Incorporeal objects 
(count all the numbers on the dice, not just the 1’s). Incorporeal objects can 
receive effects and conditions from this attack.
Extendable
When you cast this wall, you may pay an additional cost equal to the mana cost 
of the wall, plus the wall’s Level, as part of the cost of casting the spell. If you do, 
when this spell resolves, you may take an additional wall of the same name out 
of your spellbook and place it on any zone border connected to the first wall. 
The second wall must be placed within LoS, but does not have to be in range. 
See “Walls” on page 17.
Familiar
This object can cast spells. See “Familiars” on page 16.
Fast
This creature may take 2 move actions before taking a quick action. It may not 
use its quick action to take a 3rd move action. If a Fast creature gains the Slow 
trait, both traits are cancelled out. See “Fast Creatures” on page 14.
Finite Life
This creature cannot heal, regenerate, or gain Life. If the creature gained Life 
before it gained this trait, it keeps that Life but cannot gain additional Life. All 
Nonliving objects have Finite Life.
Flying
See “Flying Creatures” on page 15.
Friendly
A friendly object is one which is currently controlled by the player, or players on 
his team (in a multiplayer game).
Full Action
During their Action Phase, if a creature does not take a move 
action, it can take a full action. Full actions include casting full 
spells, or making full action attacks (which are marked on the 
creature card with a special full action (hourglass) icon). See “Full 
Actions” on page 11. 
Full Spell
A full spell requires a full action to cast it. It has the full action (hourglass) icon 
on its casting line, just to the right of its casting cost. 
Guarding
As a quick action a creature can choose to guard, to protect his 
zone and gain Counterstrike. See “Guarding” on page 29. 
Heal
Healing removes damage from Living creatures and 
conjurations. See “Removing Damage” on page 26. 
Hidden Enchantment
All enchantments are cast face-down and are kept hidden from 
your opponent. Enchantments all have a casting cost of 2 mana, 
printed next to the hidden (closed eye) icon on their spell card. 
When they are revealed (turned face-up), their controller pays 
their reveal cost. See “Enchantments” on page 18.
Hinder
If a creature moves out of a zone with enemy creatures in it, or if it moves into 
a zone with enemy creatures in it, it is hindered. A hindered creature can 
only take one move action during its Action Phase. Incapacitated, Restrained, 
or Pest creatures cannot hinder movement. Flying creatures cannot hinder the 
movement of non-Flying creatures, and visa-versa. Elusive creatures cannot be 
hindered by other creatures.
Hit
An attack is considered to have “hit” its target, if it has a Damage and Effects 
Step. An attack does not hit, if this step is skipped (possibly because the attack 
misses or is avoided) or the attack is canceled before this step can occur.
Ignore
An ignored enemy creature cannot hinder movement of friendly creatures. An 
ignored enemy creature that is guarding does not have to be attacked when 
making a melee attack.
Immunity
This object is immune to all attacks, damage, conditions, and effects of the 
specified damage type, including critical damage and direct damage. It 
cannot be targeted or affected by spells or attacks of the specified type. 
Incapacitated
An Incapacitated creature cannot take any actions, including moving, attacking, 
guarding, or casting spells. It cannot make a counterstrike. It cannot use any 
Defenses, except for mandatory-reveal enchantments that count as a Defense. 
It cannot guard; remove any guard marker on it. A Flying creature loses, and 
cannot gain, the Flying trait as long as it is Incapacitated. Any Damage Barrier on 
an Incapacitated creature continues to function normally.

Other creatures may ignore an Incapacitated creature, and it cannot hinder the 
movement of enemies.
An Incapacitated creature still takes an Action Phase during the round, but
it cannot perform any actions during its Action Phase (normally, the action 
marker is simply flipped over).
Conjurations cannot be Incapacitated.
Mages are affected by Incapacitation differently. A Mage’s mind is so powerful 
that even if he is Incapacitated he can still work his magic! An Incapacitated 
Mage can still use actions to cast quick non-attack spells. He cannot cast 
full spells or attack spells.
An Incapacitated creature cannot take any actions, including moving, attacking, 
guarding, or casting spells. It cannot make a counterstrike. It cannot use any 
Defenses, except for mandatory-reveal enchantments like Block, or Defenses 
which say otherwise like Force Sword. It cannot guard; remove any guard marker 
on it. A Flying creature loses, and cannot gain, the Flying trait as long as it is 
Incapacitated. Any damage barrier on an Incapacitated creature continues to 
function normally.
Other creatures may ignore an Incapacitated creature, and it cannot hinder the 
movement of enemies.
An Incapacitated creature still takes an Action Phase during the round, but
it cannot perform any actions during its Action Phase (normally, the action 
marker is simply flipped over). It normally cannot make an Escape Roll 
(exception: see Cripple).
Conjurations cannot be Incapacitated.
Mages are affected by Incapacitation differently. A Mage’s mind is so powerful 
that even if he is Incapacitated he can still work his magic! An Incapacitated 
Mage can still use actions to cast quick non-attack spells. He cannot cast 
full spells or attack spells.
Incorporeal
An insubstantial or amorphous object that is very resistant to damage. All attack 
dice rolled to damage this object only count the “1’s” on the dice (ignore all 2’s), 
unless the attack has the Ethereal trait. Cannot receive effects or conditions 
from attacks that are not Ethereal. All Incorporeal objects also have the 
Nonliving, Burnproof, and Uncontainable traits. Incorporeal objects do not 
have an Armor attribute, and cannot gain armor. See “Incorporeal” on page 15.
Initiative
Players take turns having the initiative, which is noted with an 
initiative marker. Whoever has the initiative gets to use their 
quickcast action first during a Quickcast Phase, and gets to 
take the first Action Phase during the Action Stage. Also, it is 
used to resolve any timing issues.
Legendary
Only 1 copy of this object can be in play at a time. You may not cast a Legendary 
spell if an object with the same name is already in play, until the first copy is 
destroyed. Legendary objects cannot be brought back into play from the discard 
pile if another copy is already in play.
Level
All spells have a Level, printed as a small number next to the spell school it 
belongs to. The Level represents the approximate power of that spell. The Level 
is sometimes used as a way to determine the cost of a spell, and is also important 
when building a spellbook. See spell Levels under “Training” on page 35.
Life
Creatures and conjurations have a Life attribute. Life is the 
maximum damage they can receive before being destroyed. 
Life +/- X
Object gains or loses X Life. Gaining Life is not healing; and losing Life is not 
taking damage. Adjustments to Life is adjusting the maximum amount of 
damage an object can receive before being destroyed. 
LoS (Line of Sight)
You cannot target an object or zone if Line of Sight is blocked. Some walls have 
the Blocks LoS trait. See “Walls” on page 17. 
Living
Living objects may heal, regenerate, and gain life. All creatures are Living, 
unless they have the Nonliving trait. All conjurations are Nonliving, unless 
they have the Living trait. 
Mage
This creature is a Mage, and represents the player in the game. The Mage can 
channel, cast spells, and has a special quickcast action each round. The Mage 
is a Level 6 creature. If your Mage is destroyed, you lose! 
Magebind +X
If this enchantment is attached to a Mage, the reveal cost is increased by X. This 
adjusted reveal cost is used for all purposes in spells, abilities, or effects which 
refer to the reveal cost of this spell.
Magecast
This spell can only be cast by a Mage. It cannot be cast by other objects which 
can cast spells.
Mage Only
Some spells are restricted to particular Mage classes. For example, a spell may 
have the “Warlock Only” trait. See “Spell Traits That Affect Your Spellbook” 
on page 36.
Mana Drain +X
If this attack damages an enemy creature, that creature’s controller loses X mana 
from his mana supply (if he has any). If the attack makes multiple attacks 
during the same attack action, it gains this bonus only for the first attack it can 
make with this bonus. 
Mana Transfer +X
Exactly as Mana Drain +X, with this change: The controller of this attack gains 
mana equal to the amount of mana lost. 
Melee +X
This creature gains +X attack dice when it makes a melee 
attack. If the attack makes multiple attacks during the same 
attack action, it gains this bonus only for the first attack it can 
make with this bonus. Does not grant a melee attack if this 
creature does not have one. Does not affect ranged attacks, 
damage barriers, or other non-melee attacks.
Melee Attack
This is a close-in attack which can only attack targets in the same zone. It can 
trigger a damage barrier or a counterstrike. When making a melee attack you 
must attack an enemy guard if there is one in your zone. A melee attack will 
remove a guard marker from a guarding creature.
Move Action
During its Action Phase a creature can take a move action, which allows it to 
move one zone to an adjacent zone. Afterwards it may take a quick action. See 
“Movement” beginning on page 9.
Multiple Attacks
Some attack actions consist of multiple separate attacks against the same 
or different targets. Multiple attacks include those with the Doublestrike, 
Triplestrike, or Sweeping traits. 
Nonliving
All Nonliving objects have the Poison Immunity and Finite Life traits. All 
creatures are Living, unless they have the Nonliving trait. All conjurations are 
Nonliving, unless they have the Living trait. Incorporeal objects are always 
Nonliving.
Novice
Basic apprentice spells. All Mages may add Novice spells to their spellbooks 
for 1 Spell Point, even if they are not trained in, or are opposed to, that spell’s 
school of magic. 

Object
Enchantments, equipment, creatures, and conjurations are spells which become 
objects in the game, remaining in play after they are cast. The Mage is also 
considered an object. Incantation and attack spells do not become objects.
Owner
The owner of a spell is the player who started with that spell 
in his spellbook at the beginning of the game. 
Passage Attacks
All Creatures that move through this wall are 
automatically attacked by the wall. The attack occurs 
before the creature moves. See “Walls” on page 17.
Passage Blocked
Creatures may not move through this wall. If a creature is 
Pushed into this wall, it is Bashed. The walls around the 
outside of the arena all have the Passage Blocked trait, 
and affect Flying creatures. See “Walls” on page 17. 
Pest
A small nuisance creature that cannot hinder enemies. Enemy creatures may 
ignore a Pest that is guarding to attack a different target. 
Piercing +X
This attack subtracts X from the target’s armor when determining the amount 
of damage dealt. It cannot reduce the target’s armor below 0.
Poison
Some attacks may have the poison damage type. Note that 
many attacks, while not having the poison damage type, may 
still cause poison conditions. 
Poison Immunity
Nonliving objects have Poison Immunity. See “Immunity” in the Codex.
Psychic Immunity
This object has a very powerful mind, or no mind at all. All conjurations have 
Psychic Immunity. See “Immunity” in the Codex.
Push
Push is an effect caused by some spells and attacks that moves the target into 
an adjacent zone. Unless the effect says otherwise, the Pushed creature must 
move one zone away in the opposite direction from the source of the Push. If 
there is a choice of direction (such as pushing a creature diagonally opposite, or 
if the source of the Push is in the same zone as the target), the source of the Push 
chooses the direction. 
Some spells may Push in a random direction. To determine the direction, choose 
one side of the board to be “North” and roll the Effect Die: a 1-3 Pushes the 
creature North, 4-6 = East, 7-9 = South and 10-12 = West.
A creature may be Pushed through a wall, but only if the wall does not have the 
Passage Blocked trait. The Pushed creature suffers any attack from the wall if the 
wall has the Passage Attacks trait. If a creature is Pushed into a wall with the 
Passage Blocked trait, it is Bashed against the wall and suffers an Unavoidable 
attack of 3 attack dice. Note the walls around the outside of the arena all have 
the Passage Blocked trait. Note that Flying creatures ignore walls, except for 
the ones around the outside of the arena.
Some creatures and all conjurations have the Unmovable trait. They cannot be 
Pushed and ignore all Push effects.
Quick Action
During their Action Phase, creatures can take a move action, 
followed by a quick action. Quick actions include guarding, 
casting a quick spell, taking a second move action, or making 
a quick action attack. See “Quick Actions” on page 11. 
Quickcast Action
Each Mage can take a special additional action each round called 
the quickcast action. This allows him to cast one quick spell, in 
addition to any other actions he may choose to take that round. 
The quickcast action can be used before or after any friendly 
Action Phase, or during a Quickcast Phase, and a quickcast 
marker is used to track using this action. See “Quickcast Action” on page 8.
Quickcast Phase
There is a Quickcast Phase at the beginning and end of each Action Stage. This 
is an opportunity for either player to use their quickcast action to cast one 
quick spell, in order of initiative. See “Quickcast Phase” on page 8.
Quick Spell
A quick spell requires a quick action to cast it. It has the quick action (lightning 
bolt) icon on its casting line, just to the right of its casting cost. 
Rage +X
When wounded, this creature becomes extremely vicious and aggressive. Each 
time it is attacked and damaged by an enemy creature, place a Rage token on 
it. It cannot have more than X Rage tokens on it. It gains the Melee +1 trait for 
each Rage token on it. Each time it heals or regenerates, remove 1 Rage token. If 
it has no damage on it, remove all Rage tokens.
Ranged +X
This creature gains + X attack dice when it makes a ranged attack. If the attack 
makes multiple attacks during the same attack action, it gains this bonus only 
for the first attack it can make with this bonus. Has no effect on Zone Attacks. 
Does not grant a ranged attack if this creature does not have one. 
Ranged Attack
This attack can be used on targets within its minimum and 
maximum range, and within Line of Sight. A ranged attack can 
always be made against a Flying creature in the same zone, even 
below its minimum range. Ranged attacks do not trigger damage 
barriers or counterstrikes. Ranged attacks ignore guards, and do 
not remove guard markers from guarding creatures.
Reach
This melee attack can target and attack Flying creatures in the same zone.
Ready Marker
Ready markers are used to keep track of when abilities are used. 
For example, if a creature has a Defense, it will use a ready 
marker to keep track of when it is used (flip marker to the gray 
“used” side), and when the defense is ready again (flip marker 
to the green “ready” side). Ready markers all reset to their green 
“ready” side during the Reset Phase.
Regenerate X
This object heals (removes) X damage each Upkeep Phase. The Regenerate trait 
does not stack or combine with other Regenerate traits. If an object acquires 
more than one Regenerate trait, use only the highest one. The Finite Life trait 
prevents regeneration.
Removal Cost
Most conditions have a removal cost, printed on the 
condition as a small number in a gray circle. Certain spells or 
abilities may permit you to remove the condition by paying 
this cost in mana. See “Removal Costs” on page 27. 
Restrained
If a creature is Restrained, it cannot take any move actions. It can still be Pushed 
or Teleported. Aside from movement, a Restrained creature may take any quick 
or full actions during its Action Phase. A Restrained creature cannot hinder the 
movement of enemies. A Restrained creature may guard, but attacking creatures 
may ignore it (they do not have to attack it). The only advantage a Restrained 
guard receives is the Counterstrike trait. Flying creatures lose, and cannot 
gain, the Flying trait for as long as they are Restrained. A Restrained creature 
suffers a -2 penalty to all defense rolls.
Uncontainable creatures and all conjurations cannot be Restrained.
Reveal Cost
When you reveal a hidden enchantment, turn it face up. The 
controller pays the reveal mana cost, if any (noted on the open 
eye symbol on the card), or else the enchantment is destroyed. 
See “Revealing Enchantments” on page 18.
Rot
This is a poison condition. This object receives 1 direct 
damage during the Upkeep Phase each round. Rot has a 
removal cost of 2.

Sleep
This is a psychic condition. This creature is in a deep sleep and is 
Incapacitated. If this creature receives any damage (such as an 
attack from a friendly creature), remove Sleep and replace it with 
a Daze marker (which is conveniently printed on the other side 
of the Sleep marker). Sleep has a removal cost of “L”, which is the 
sleeping creature’s Level.
Slow
This creature is very slow. If this creature takes a move action, its Action Phase 
immediately ends. It does not get to take a quick action after moving. If a Slow 
creature gains the Fast trait, both traits are canceled out.
Spawnpoint
This object can cast spells during the Deployment Phase. See “Spawnpoints” 
on page 16.
Spellbind
This object can have a spell bound to it, which you can cast once per round. See 
“Spellbinding” on page 21.
Stun
Creature is Incapacitated. All Stun markers are removed at the 
end of the creature’s Action Phase. Stun has a removal cost of 4. 
Cannot affect conjurations. 
Summon
When a creature comes into play and is placed in the arena it is Summoned. 
Usually this occurs when a creature spell has been cast and successfully resolves. 
Sweeping
This attack has a wide sweeping arc. A Sweeping attack is one attack action, 
which comprises 2 attacks against different targets in the same zone. After the 
first attack, you may start a new attack sequence (beginning with the Declare 
Attack Step) targeting a different object in the same zone. Note: The second 
attack cannot be made against the same target as the first attack. If there is not 
a different valid target for the second attack, then just cancel the second attack.
Taunt
This is a special condition that can be caused by the attack of 
certain creatures (In this set: Sosruko, Ferret Companion). Place 
a Taunt marker on the creature. Taunted creature must make 
a melee attack against Sosruko during its next action phase, if 
able, and if Sosruko is in its zone. If it is required to make an attack on a different 
target from a competing effect (such as Bloodthirsty), the controller may choose 
which target to attack. Remove Taunt at end of its Action Phase or whenever 
Sosruko is activated.
Teleport
Teleporting is an effect that moves a creature directly from one zone to another. 
The Teleported creature bypasses all zones in between its starting and ending 
zone, thus bypassing walls and other objects along the way. It cannot be 
hindered by enemy creatures when Teleporting. Everything that is attached to 
the Teleported creature, except conjurations, including all conditions, damage, 
enchantments, equipment, and mana, always moves with the Teleported creature 
to its new zone. Any attached conjurations do not move with the creature when 
it Teleports, and are destroyed. In this way, a creature can effectively escape from 
conjurations like Tanglevine.
A creature may Teleport into the same zone it started in (effectively Teleporting 
zero zones) to escape from attached conjurations.
Unlike a Push, Teleporting can affect Unmovable creatures. A Teleport follows 
the 6 Steps of a Move Action (see “Move Action” on page 10).
Example: The Wizard is two zones away from a friendly Darkfenne Hydra. 
He wants to teleport the Hydra into the zone with the opposing Mage. He 
casts teleport targeting the Hydra and the zone with the opposing Mage in it. 
The spell Teleport requires this targeting, and so both the zone and the creature 
must be within line of sight and no further than 2 zones away from the Wizard. 
The Wizard pays 12 mana to move the Hydra the 4 zones into the Opposing 
Mages zone.
Token
A token is a small marker used to keep track of something, usually related to 
just one spell.
Tough -X
This creature is tough and resistant to effects from attacks. Whenever the effect 
die is rolled for additional effects from an attack made against this creature, 
modify the roll by X.
Traps
An enchantment subtype that triggers when an enemy enters the zone. See 
“Traps” on page 20.
Triplestrike
This attack makes two additional attacks against the same target as part of the 
same attack action. The additional attacks occur during the Additional Strikes Step. 
Unavoidable
Defenses cannot be used to avoid this attack. See “Defenses” on page 24.
Uncontainable
This creature has a slippery and/or amorphous body, making it difficult to 
hold in place. Some spells, conditions, and effects will not work against an 
Uncontainable creature. All Incorporeal creatures have the Uncontainable trait. 
Unique
Each player may only have 1 copy of this object in play at a time. Similar to 
Legendary, but each player is allowed to have his own copy in play.
Unmovable
Object cannot be Pushed. All conjurations are Unmovable.
Upkeep +X
This object’s controller pays X mana during each Upkeep Phase or this 
object is destroyed.
Vampiric
When this attack causes damage to a Living creature, the attacker heals (removes) 
up to half the damage caused (round up). If the attack does more damage than 
the target’s Life total, the excess damage does not count for healing. If the attack 
makes multiple attacks during the same attack action, it gains this bonus only 
for the first attack it makes. The Vampiric trait does not stack.
Wall
A wall is a subtype of a conjuration spell. It is placed on a zone border (the 
intersection between 2 zones). See “Walls” on page 17.
Weak
This is a poison condition which weakens a creature. 
For each Weak condition on it, the creature loses 1 
attack die from all non-spell attacks it makes. Cannot 
reduce an attack to zero dice. Has no effect on damage 
barriers or attack spells. Weak has a removal cost 
of 2.
A zone is a square region on the arena game board, used to regulate 
movement, the placement of objects, and for counting range. 
Zone Attack or Spell
This attack or spell affects all creatures and conjurations in 
the target zone, without actually targeting them individually. 
Does not affect walls on the zone’s border. Zone attacks 
have the Unavoidable trait and make a separate attack 
against each object in the zone. Is unaffected by the Ranged 
+X trait. See “Zone Attacks” on page 24.
Zone Exclusive
There can be only 1 Zone Exclusive conjuration at a time in each zone. See 
“Zone Exclusive” on page 17.
Zone Border
This is the intersection between two adjacent zones. Walls are always placed 
on zone borders. Object may pass through, but not end their movement on 
a zone border. You do not count zone borders when counting distances for 
movement or range.

Lewis Bronson
Ray D’Arcy
Patrick Connor
CJ DeSilvey
Derek Dix
Ryan Dusek
Alan Gerding
Joshua Githens
Harry Gloss
Steven Hoffman
Joshua Hughes
Adam Humpolick
Matt Humpolick
Cameron Maynard
Colin Meller
Chad Shamrowicz
Chris Steele
Ryan Brock
Colton Bullock
Corey Burt
Justin Burt
Nathan Burt
Richard Daly
Jordan Darrington
Zak Dolan
Cameron Duncan
Steven Fields
Anthony Gill
Chris Gilroy
Ananda Guneratne
Brendan Hill
Derick Janssen
CW Karstens
Christin Kolstad
Allison Land
Rufus Looney
Mat Malecot
Mike McKown
Tammy Niebling
Henry Pfeiffer
Andrew Pope
Cristofer Pope
Phil Riley
Ed Reinhardt
Rebecca Reinhardt 
Jaddua Ross
Joshua Smith
Matt Smolik
Shawn Storie
Martin Villagrana
Brendan Whatley
Son Wynn 
CREDITS
Mage Wars® Created by Bryan Pope
Co-Designer: Benjamin Pope
RULES
Rules Writer: William Niebling
Rules Development Lead: Aaron Brosman, 
Alexander Mont
Rules Development: Marc Aquino, TJ Huzl, 
JohnRoss Pike, Ryan Stapleton
Editor: John Rogers
CREATIVE TEAM
Creative Director: Chris Henson
Art Direction: John Guytan, David Hanold, 
Sean McCoy
Rulebook/Box Art/Mage Art: Craig Spearing
Interior Rules and Component Art: 
Nick Deligaris, Jason Engle, Diego Gisbert, 
John Guytan, Sean McCoy, rk post, 
Maichol Quinto
Card Art: Attributed on each card
STORY
Story World: Dr. Thomas Allen
Story Development: Eric Sexton
Flavor Text: Dr. Thomas Allen, Aaron 
Brosman, John Guytan, Sean McCoy, John 
Rogers, Eric Sexton
ASSISTANT DESIGNERS AND LEAD PLAYTESTERS
Thanks to all of you for your tireless hours of testing, feedback, proofreading, suggestions, and development! 
Also, all of the names listed above are included in this list as well.
Special Thanks: Will Niebling, Aaron Witten
PLAYTESTERS
Special thanks to all of our Playtesters for their suggestions, feedback, and support!
CREDITS
Find us on Facebook or visit us at WWW.MAGEWARS.COM
for more information, including a complete spell list for the core set.

Initiative Phase
Initiative is passed to the other player.
Reset Phase
Flip all action markers, 
quickcast markers, and 
ready markers to the active side (face-up).
Channeling Phase
Each Mage and object that channels 
adds mana equal to their channeling 
to their mana supply. 
Upkeep Phase
Pay any upkeep costs. Some spells or conditions 
take effect during this phase.
Planning Phase
Each Mage chooses up to 2 spells 
from his spellbook. Choose spells 
for Spawnpoints and Familiars too.
Deployment Phase
In initiative order, each player may cast the spells 
chosen for their Spawnpoints.
QUICK ACTIONS
•	Make a Quick Attack
 
•	 Cast a Quick Spell 
•	 Guard 
•	 Take another Move Action
FULL ACTIONS
•	Make a Full Attack
•	 Cast a Full Spell
ATTACK ACTION
1.	 Declare Attack
2.	 Pay Costs
3.	 Roll to Miss
4.	 Avoid Attack
5.	 Roll Dice
6.	 Damage & Effects
7.	 Additional Strikes
8.	 Damage Barrier
9. Counterstrike
10. Attack Ends
Each Mage has an opportunity to take a quickcast 
action, starting with the player with initiative.
Action Phases
Players take turns taking Action Phases with their 
creatures, starting with the player with initiative, 
until all have acted. Each Action Phase starts with 
activating a creature, flipping their action mark-
er, and removing a guard marker if they have one. 
For its Action Phase, a creature may choose from 
these actions:
When all creatures are finished acting, each Mage 
has a final opportunity to use his quickcast action, if 
he has not already used it this round, starting with 
the player who has initiative.
Once per round, each Mage may use his quickcast 
action to cast one quick spell. The action can be 
used during:
•	 Either Quickcast Phase, 
•	 Or, before or after any friendly creature 
action phase.
+
ACTION STAGE
READY STAGE
QUICK ACTION
FULL ACTION
1.	 Declare Move
2.	 Pay Costs
3. Leaving Zone Effects
4. Walls
5. Move
6. Entering Zone Effects
Creature or Conjuration
Creature or Conjuration
©2012 Arcane Wonders. Art by Maichol Quinto. MW1A07
0-2
Lightning Bolt
Lightning Bolt
Lightning
Lightning
ATTACK
ATTACK
d12
6-7 = Daze
8+ = Stun
6-7 = Daze
8+ = Stun
”You see soldiers of Westlock. I see little lightning rods.” 
— Laddinfance, Primus of the White Spires
©2012 Arcane Wonders. Art by Nick Deligaris. MW1C31
0-0
d12 7-10 = Daze
7-10 = Daze
Aegis 1 • Flying 
Light Immunity • Legendary
“I lay near death, a prayer to Asyra upon my lips, when 
the blinding sun came forth to strike down my foes: a vision 
of beauty, power, and light.” — Peasant of Westlock
©2012 Arcane Wonders. Art by Nick Deligaris. MW1C31
0-0
d12 7-10 = Daze
7-10 = Daze
Aegis 1 • Flying 
Light Immunity • Legendary
“I lay near death, a prayer to Asyra upon my lips, when 
the blinding sun came forth to strike down my foes: a vision 
of beauty, power, and light.” — Peasant of Westlock
CAST SPELL ACTION
1. Declare Spell
3. Counter Spell
4. Resolve Spell