MAKE KNIGHT DUNGEONS 
 
TO BE A HERO … 
 
 
Mage Knight Dungeons is a fast paced, fun game of Heroic combat. Your heroes slog 
through deep, dark dungeons and battle terrifying mage spawn monsters in a race against other 
heroes to find hidden treasures filled with magic items and gold. 
 
These prizes are what a hero needs to carve himself a legend: the more gold, the greater the 
legend. If you are ready to turn your warrior into a hero, read on. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
In Mage Knight Dungeons, you take turns moving your Hero through the dungeon to win 
treasure, defeat monsters and other Heroes, and fight to make it out alive. On your opponent’s 
turn, you play the monsters who are trying to eliminate his Hero. Along the way your Hero must 
face the traps that protect the treasure chests, battle monsters and search for the fastest and 
safest way out of the dungeon. 
 
COMPONENTS 
This starter set contains: 
 
 
Mage Knight Heroes 
 
 
Mage Spawn figures 
 
 
treasure chests 
 
 
wandering monster tokens 
 
 
sets of level markers 
 
 
arrow markers 
 
 
30” x 20” dungeon map 
 
 
dice 
 
 
• 
Special Abilities Card 
 
 
• 
This rulebook 
 
THE GOAL: TREASURE! 
 
Your Hero’s goal in Mage Knight Dungeons is to gather treasure and escape from the 
dungeon alive—and to deny his opponent that same glory. Treasure contains gold and gold is the 
only measure of victory. The player with the most gold at the end of the game wins. 
 
SET UP THE BOARD 
 
To play MK Dungeons right out of the box, you and a friend each use one Hero. It’s called 
Lone Wolf Dungeon Crawl. To play with more than one Hero or more than two players, read the 
Advanced Rules. 
 
STEP 1: CHOOSE YOUR HEROES 
 
Each MK Dungeons Starter Set contains 2 Heroes. Each player chooses a Hero. 
 
Starting Player 
 
Each player rolls two dice to determine who plays first. The person with the highest die result 
is called the starting player and plays first. Play proceeds to the left. 
 
MK Dungeons contains two types of warriors: 
 
Heroes and Mage Spawn. You use your Heroes to explore the dungeon and find the 
treasure. Mage Spawn are the monsters you must defeat to carry away the gold. Each warrior is 
composed of three parts: the miniature figure, the base and the combat dial 
 

 
The Base 
 
The figure base provides the following information: 
 
The Figure 
 
Each warrior is a fully painted miniature. 
 
***INSERT IMAGE OF FIGURE. ALL TEXT BELOW POINTS TO THE IMAGE*** 
Faction Symbol 
 
The group to which the warrior belongs. This is the Hero faction symbol. 
 
Collector’s Number 
 
There are 100 different characters in Mage Knight Dungeons. The collector’s number allows 
you to track the figures in your collection. 
 
Set Icon 
 
Center Dot 
 
Used to determine line of fire for any ranged attack. 
 
Front Arc 
Defines the warrior’s facing. All attacks must be made through the front arc. 
 
Combat Dial Stat Slot 
 
Point Value 
 
The number of points the warrior is worth when building an army. 
 
Warrior’s Name 
 
The name of the warrior. 
 
Rear Arc 
 
If an attack passes through the rear arc on a warrior’s base, the attacker receives a bonus to 
his attack. 
***END FIGURE TEXT*** 
 
The Combat Dial 
 
The combat dial is the rotating dial under each figure’s base. Each warrior’s combat dial 
shows a set of numbers that tell you how good that warrior is at doing certain things. When you 
turn the dial clockwise, you reveal a new set of numbers. 
 
Combat Values 
 
Each warrior has five combat values: speed, attack, defense, damage and range. The 
combat value symbol is printed on the base; the value is printed on the combat dial and shows 
through the slot. The combat value for range is printed on the base. 
 
***START TEXT FOR COMBAT DIAL. INSERT IMAGE OF COMBAT DIAL. ALL 
TEXT BELOW POINTS TO THE IMAGE *** 
Special Abilities 
 
Colored squares and circles on a warrior’s combat dial indicate special abilities associated 
with each combat value. Special abilities come and go as your warrior takes damage, is healed or 
gains experience. Descriptions of the special abilities appear on the Mage Knight Dungeons 
Special Ability Card. 
 
If a special ability description ends with the notation “Optional ability,” the player controlling 
the warrior chooses whether or not to use the special ability. 

 
Speed 
Attack 
Defense 
Damage 
Range (Arrows: number of attacks) 
Level Notation 
 
Most Heroes begin the game at Experience Level 1 and can gain up to 4 more levels of 
experience. Use a level counter to show your Hero’s experience level. The sticker on the bottom 
of a Hero’s base shows that Hero’s point value for each level. 
***END TEXT FOR COMBAT DIAL. INSERT IMAGE OF COMBAT DIAL. ALL TEXT 
BELOW POINTS TO THE IMAGE *** 
 
***PLACE IMAGE HERE*** 
Hero Level Counter 
***END IMAGE TEXT*** 
 
***PLACE IMAGE HERE*** 
Hero Base Sticker 
***END IMAGE TEXT*** 
 
STEP 2: LAY OUT THE MAP 
 
Unfold the map and lay it out on the table or floor, or wherever you are playing. Each map 
has 4 entrance/exit points, so up to four players can play on one map. 
 
Dashed lines indicate the edges of the tiles on each map. 
 
Each map is divided into tiles, which represent hallways or chambers. The tiles are divided 
into squares, which determine location and define movement. 
 
Terrain 
 
Some squares contain an illustration or color that identifies that square as special terrain or a 
terrain feature. A figure cannot move through a blocking terrain wall using normal movement or 
any special ability. 
 
***PLACE TERRAIN IMAGES*** 
Square 
Tile divisions 
Entrance 
Water Terrain (Legal) 
Clear Terrain (Legal) 
Hindering Terrain (Legal) 
Crevasse (Illegal) 
Blocking Terrain (Wall) 
***END TERRAIN TEXT*** 
 
STEP 3: PLACE THE TREASURE CHESTS 
 
Before beginning the game, set the trap dials on the treasure chests to the blank position. 
 
The starting player takes one treasure chest, spins the treasure dial and places it in a tile at 
least two tiles from any entrance being used. All treasure chests have a front arc, which 
corresponds to the square directly in front of the chest and one adjacent square on either side of 
that square. The opponent takes the remaining treasure chest, spins the treasure dial and places 
the chest in any other tile at least two tiles from any entrance being used. You can place only one 
treasure chest in each tile. 
 
***INSERT TREASURE PLACEMENT PHOTOS**** 

 
Correct placement 
 
The treasure chests are accessible from at least one front arc square 
 
Incorrect Placement 
 
The front arc is not accessible to any hero 
***END TREASURE PLACEMENT TEXT**** 
 
The Treasure Chest 
 
Each treasure chest consists of two parts: the trap (located in the lid) and the treasure 
(located in the chest). 
 
The Trap 
 
The trap dial is a tumbler containing six positions of information. Five positions are traps, and 
the starting position is blank. The numbers on the dial represent various powers of the trap. 
 
The Treasure 
 
The treasure inside the chest also appears on a tumbler. There are six positions of treasure. 
Treasures give individual figures new powers through magic items, gold, or both. 
 
STEP 4: PLACE WANDERING MONSTER TOKENS 
 
Wandering monster tokens come in two levels: Weak (printed in yellow) and Standard 
(printed in blue). For each color token there are two different tables. Lay the tokens on the table 
so that the Mage Spawn icon shows. Mix them up. 
 
The starting player chooses a wandering monster token and places it in a tile containing a 
treasure chest. The opponent chooses a token and places it according to the following criteria. 
Each player places a maximum of three wandering monster tokens. 
 
 
• A wandering monster token cannot be placed in the same square as a treasure. 
 
• Only one wandering monster token may be placed on each tile. However, if a tile contains a 
treasure chest, two wandering monster tokens can be placed on that tile. 
 
• Wandering monster tokens cannot be placed on an entrance tile or any tile adjacent to an 
entrance tile. 
 
STEP 5: CREATE THE MAGE SPAWN POOL 
 
Place all the Mage Spawn together off to one side of the map. This is the Mage Spawn Pool. 
 
Mage Spawn are the monsters that appear when a Hero encounters a wandering monster 
token or when a trap is sprung. 
 
Some Mage Spawn appear in three versions, weak, standard and tough. Each version is 
indicated in two ways: 
 
***INSERT MAGE SPAWN PHOTOS*** 
Weak yellow highlights 
Standard blue highlights 
Tough red highlights 
***END MAGE SPAWN PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
The highlight color should match the number of stars on the base. If a Mage Spawn has no 
stars on its base, then it is a unique figure. Each version of each Mage Spawn has its own 
collector’s number. 
 
STEP 6: CHOOSE ENTRANCE AND EXIT 
 
The starting player chooses an entrance for his Hero and places a colored arrow on the 
opening to the dungeon at that square. The opposing player chooses an entrance for his Hero 
and uses the arrow of the remaining color to mark the entrance square. Each player’s entrance 
also serves as the opposing player’s exit. 

 
 
Each Hero must begin the game in a different starting tile. 
 
***INSERT ENTRANCE PHOTO*** 
Green’s Entrance. Red’s Exit. 
Red’s Entrance. Green’s Exit. 
***END ENTRANCE PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
STEP 7: START THE GAME 
 
Heroes begin the game off the board. Place your Hero next to his or her entrance to the 
dungeon. It’s time to search for treasure, eliminate Mage Spawn and become a hero! 
 
PLAY THE GAME 
 
During your turn, you can move your Hero through the dungeon to gather treasure, and you 
can move Mage Spawn around to stop your opponent’s Hero from gathering treasure. The 
following rules tell you how to move and fight, and how to gather treasure. 
 
ACTIVATIONS 
 
Each player receives 2 activations per turn. 
 
A Hero, Mage Spawn, or wandering monster token can only be activated once per turn. 
You can perform the following activations in any order. 
 
• Activate A Hero: An activated Hero may move through the dungeon, fight and open treasure 
chests. The Hero’s activation ends immediately after a combat or according to the use of 
a special ability. A Hero may make an attack only once per activation. 
 
• Activate A Mage Spawn Monster: An activated Mage Spawn may fight 
and move 
through the dungeon. The Mage Spawn’s activation ends immediately after a combat or 
according to the use of a special ability. A Mage Spawn may make an attack only once 
per activation. 
 
• Move Wandering Monster Token: Wandering monster tokens have only 4 Speed Points. 
 
• Pass/No Action: A player can declare at anytime that his turn is over, and forfeit any 
remaining activations. 
 
 
If their Hero is eliminated, a player can still activate Mage Spawn and wandering monster 
tokens using their 2 activations per turn. 
 
First Turn Movement 
 
A player must move his Hero into the dungeon on the first turn before activating a wandering 
monster token. 
 
Action Costs 
 
When you activate a Hero or Mage Spawn, they may take a variety of actions. Each action 
costs speed points. A character’s total speed points is equal to the speed value on the figure’s 
combat dial. The cost for various actions appears in the sections describing those actions. 
Unused speed points are lost at the end of activation. They do not carry over to the next turn. 
 
MOVEMENT 
 
It costs 1 speed point to move from square to square. A square with a number printed on it 
costs that many speed points to enter. 
 
To move diagonally, add 1 to the base speed point cost for that square. 
 
A character cannot move into a square marked with an X, unless allowed by a special ability. 
 
To enter the dungeon, you must spend the speed points indicated on the entrance square. 
 
Exiting the dungeon costs 1 speed point. 
 
***INSERT MOVEMENT PHOTO*** 
Lord Oren’s Movement 

 
Yellow Path - 1 (clear) +3 (water) +2 (clear on diagonal) = 6 speed points 
White Path - 4 (water on a diagonal) +3 (water) +1 (clear) = 8 speed points 
***END MOVEMENT PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Free Spin 
 
Whenever a Hero or Mage Spawn ends its movement next to or is placed next to an 
opposing figure, the opposing figure gets a free spin opportunity. The player controlling the figure 
may immediately turn the figure within its square to face the opposing figure. A figure may have 
several free spin opportunities during a single turn. 
 
Breaking Away 
 
Any figure that begins the turn in or moves into the front arc of an opponent must break away 
before it can move to another square. Breaking away means that a character must make an effort 
to get away from an opposing figure. It costs 2 speed points to attempt to break away. A figure 
may attempt to break away any number of times per activation, as long as it has enough speed 
points available to break away and move to another square. 
 
In order to break away, the player rolls a six-sided die. On a result of 1, 2 or 3, the figure does 
not break away and must stay in that square. It can perform other actions if it has the speed 
points available. 
 
On a roll of 4, 5, or 6, the figure breaks away and can move normally, spending its speed 
points as needed. 
 
Only one successful breakaway is needed to move past a figure, even if the character 
breaking away must move past the figure over multiple squares. Only one roll is necessary to 
breakaway from all adjacent figures and move to a new square. 
 
You do not need to break away if you are only spinning and staying in the same square. 
 
A figure can move past an opponent without breaking away as long as it does not enter the 
opponent’s front arc. 
 
If a figure makes a free spin that takes an opposing figure out of its front arc, the opposing 
figure can move normally without needing to make a breakaway roll on its next turn. 
 
***INSERT BREAKING AWAY PHOTO*** 
After a successful break away roll, Lord Oren may continue to move normally (in Yellow) until it 
enters the front arc of a different opposing figure (in white). 
***END BREAKING AWAY PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Passing Through 
 
Warriors can pass through friendly and enemy figures and treasure chests for a cost of 3 
speed points, plus the cost of the destination square. There is no additional cost if the figure 
being moved through is on a hindering or water square. A warrior can only pass through a figure 
if that figure is not in a square adjacent to an opposing figure; there must be an empty square for 
the warrior to move into. No two figures can end their movements in the same square. 
 
Warriors can pass through multiple friendly units if they have sufficient speed points. 
 
Once a figure passes through an opposing figure, the opposing figure gets a free close 
combat attack at the passing figure through that character’s rear arc. The passing figure then gets 
a counterattack through the front arc.(See Close Combat Attacks, p. 11). 
 
No breakaway roll is needed to pass through, and the figure can continue moving even after 
the attack/counterattack, if it has speed points remaining. 
 
***INSERT PASSING THROUGH PHOTO*** 
White (Lord Oren) cannot pass. 
Yellow (Zenephret) can pass at a cost of 4 speed points 
***END PASSING THROUGH PHOTO TEXT*** 
 

 
Moving Mage Spawn 
 
A player may assign one or more activations to Mage Spawn rather than their Heroes. Use 
the standard speed costs and rules for activations, with the following exceptions. 
 
 
• You cannot activate Mage Spawn occupying the same tile or a square adjacent to your 
Hero. 
 
• You cannot move Mage Spawn into a tile with or into a square adjacent to your Hero. 
 
• Mage Spawn will not attack other Mage Spawn. 
 
• Mage Spawn cannot disarm traps, open treasure chests or gather treasure. 
 
WANDERING MONSTER TOKENS 
 
A player may activate one or more wandering monster tokens instead of their Hero. 
Wandering monster tokens have 4 speed points. 
 
If a wandering monster token enters a tile containing any player’s Hero or moves adjacent to 
any Hero, the token immediately ends its activation and is converted into one or more Mage 
Spawn. If a Hero enters a tile containing one or more wandering monster tokens, all the tokens 
convert to Mage Spawn. The Hero can continue moving if he or she has speed points left, but 
only after the Mage Spawn have been placed on the tile. 
 
***INSERT TOKEN CONVERSION PHOTO*** 
An opponent moves a wandering monster token into a tile occupied by Lord Oren and its 
activation ends. 
***END TOKEN CONVERSION PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Converting Tokens to Mage Spawn 
 
To convert wandering monster tokens to Mage Spawn, use the following procedure. 
1. Flip the token over to reveal the Mage Spawn table. The table has three columns. 
 
***INSERT WANDERING MONSTER TOKEN IMAGE*** 
Total die roll result 
(Column 1) 
 
Maximum total point value of the Mage Spawn that will appear 
(Column 3) 
 
Maximum number of Mage Spawn that will appear 
(Column 2) 
***END WANDERING MONSTER TOKEN IMAGE TEXT*** 
 
2. The opponent of the player whose figure caused the conversion rolls 2 six-sided dice, adds the 
results and compares the total to the first column on the table. Read across the appropriate row 
to determine the number and point value of Mage Spawn that will appear. 
 
3.The opponent of the player whose figure caused the conversion places the Mage Spawn 
according to the following rules. 
 
• Choose Mage Spawn from the pool of Mage Spawn created at the beginning of the game. 
 
• The player placing the Mage Spawn chooses the direction it faces when placed. 
 
• Replace the token with the first Mage Spawn. Place the second Mage Spawn in a square 
adjacent to the first Mage Spawn, the third Mage Spawn adjacent to the first or second 
Mage Spawn, and so on. Mage Spawn may be placed in squares diagonal to each other. If 
a Mage Spawn cannot be placed according to these criteria, it cannot be played and must 
be returned to the pool. 
 
• If the Mage Spawn pool does not contain a monster of the point 
value indicated on the 
table, the player must choose the Mage Spawn 
closest to the point value without going 
over that amount. For example, 
if the only Mage Spawn remaining have point values of 5 

 
and 10, and the table indicates one 15-point Mage Spawn, the player must 
choose 
the 10-point monster. When placing multiple Mage Spawn, it is 
more important to place 
the correct number of Mage Spawn than to 
match exactly the overall point total. 
 
***INSERT PLACING MAGE SPAWN PHOTO*** 
Placing Mage Spawn 
***END PLACING MAGE SPAWN PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Converting Traps to Mage Spawn 
 
Use the rules for Converting Tokens to Mage Spawn to convert treasure chest traps that 
generate Mage Spawn. (see Springing the Trap, p. 14) 
 
When a Hero fails to disarm a trap, the opposing player places the Mage Spawn indicated by 
the trap dial. The first Mage Spawn is placed in a square adjacent to the square occupied by the 
treasure or Hero. Use the criteria in Converting Tokens to Mage Spawn for placing Mage Spawn. 
 
ATTACKS 
 
All attacks cost 4 speed points. 
 
A Hero can attack a Mage Spawn monster or another player’s Hero, which are considered to 
be unfriendly figures. Friendly figures are those controlled by you or allied teammates. The status 
of a figure is established at the beginning of the game and never changes. 
 
A warrior cannot attack a wandering monster token, treasure chest or any dungeon terrain 
feature. 
 
A Hero cannot target a friendly Hero (one you or your teammate controls) with a damaging 
attack. A Hero cannot target himself or herself with any kind of attack or special ability, except 
healing (or unless specifically allowed in the special ability description). Mage Spawn are 
considered friendly units to each other. 
 
Close Combat Attacks 
 
The target of a close combat attack must be in one of the three squares adjacent to the 
attacking figure’s front arc. 
 
When a Hero or Mage Spawn attacks another figure, there is an exchange of blows. 
 
The activating Hero (or Mage Spawn) attacks first, if it has enough speed points remaining. If 
the figure does not have enough speed points left to attack, it cannot attack in this turn. 
 
To make an attack, the controlling player rolls 2 six-sided dice and adds the result to the 
figure’s attack value. Add 1 to the attack dice roll result if attacking through the target’s rear arc. 
Compare the result to the target’s defense value. 
 
If the total attack value is equal to or greater than the target’s defense value, the target takes 
a number of clicks of damage equal to the damage value of the attacker. Click the target’s base 
clockwise the appropriate number of clicks. 
 
If the total attack value is lower than the target’s defense value, the attack misses. 
Regardless of whether the attack hit or missed, the defender may make a counterattack, AFTER 
the damage from the initial attack has been applied. However, if the target is demoralized as a 
result of the attack, the target does not get a counterattack. The counterattack costs no speed 
points and does not count toward activation for the figure. 
 
***INSERT FRONT ARC PHOTOS*** 
Front arc (Orange) 
 
Enhanced front arc 
(Includes White) 
***END FRONT ARC PHOTOS TEXT*** 
 
***INSERT FRONT ARC/ATTACK PHOTO*** 
Lord Oren can attack either the Medusa or the Demolishing Ape, because they are both in his 
front arc. 

 
***END FRONT ARC/ATTACK PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Ranged Attacks 
 
A ranged attack is an attack made against any target not in an adjacent square. A character 
may not make a ranged attack if an opposing figure occupies a square adjacent to it, or if the 
target occupies a square adjacent to a friendly figure. 
 
A figure’s maximum range in squares is printed on the figure’s base. The number of arrows 
printed next to the range indicates the number of targets a figure can attack in the same action. 
 
Before making a ranged attack, you must determine if the target is within range of the 
attacking figure, and if the figure has a clear line of fire to the target. Determine range by drawing 
an imaginary straight line between the center of the figure’s dial, through its front arc and to the 
center of the target’s dial. Each square that the line passes through counts as one for determining 
the distance between the attacker and the target. Do not count the square the attacker is standing 
in for determining range. 
 
Line of fire is blocked if it the imaginary straight line passes through a square that contains 
another figure, blocking terrain, a closed door, or shadowed terrain. Treasure chests do not block 
line of fire. You may check to see if line of fire is blocked prior to declaring the attack. 
 
To make a ranged attack, use the rules for resolving close combat attacks. 
If line of fire passes through, or the target occupies a square that contains hindering terrain (any 
square printed with a 2), add 1 to the target’s defense against ranged attacks. 
 
Add 1 to the attack dice roll result if attacking through the target’s rear arc. 
 
***INSERT RANGE ATTACK PHOTO*** 
Yellow lines show unblocked line of fire from attacker to target. 
White line show blocked line of fire. 
***END RANGE ATTACK PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
If a warrior is attacking multiple targets, use the following rules: 
 
• The same figure cannot be targeted more than once in a single attack. 
 
• The attacker must have clear line of fire to each target. 
 
• Roll 2 six-sided dice and add the result to the warrior’s attack value. Compare this total 
attack value to each target’s defense value. 
 
• Each target hit by the attack takes 1 click of damage, regardless of the attacker’s damage 
value. 
 
The targets of a ranged attack can make a counterattack. To counterattack, the target must 
have a ranged attack capability, be able to draw a valid line of fire, and be within range of the 
attacker. The counterattack must target the attacker. 
 
Attacks by Objects 
 
Objects with an attack value, and a damage value such as treasure chests can attack a 
warrior. Use the rules for close combat attacks; the opposing player rolls the dice for the attack. 
An object has only one attack. Damage from objects ignores all special abilities. The warrior does 
not get a counterattack. 
 
Healing/Repairing Abilities 
 
Characters who possess healing and other repairing special abilities can repair damage on a 
warrior’s combat dial. Use all rules for close or ranged combat (depending on the special ability). 
If the attack is successful, turn the target’s combat dial counter-clockwise a number of clicks 
equal to the healing figure’s damage value or according to the special ability. A Hero can be 
healed only to its current level. 
 
Rolling “2” and “12” 
 
If the attack dice roll result equals 2, the attack automatically misses the target. This is a 
critical miss; the attacker must immediately take 1 click of damage. 

 
 
If the attack dice roll result equals 12, the attack automatically hits the target. This is a critical 
hit; the target takes a 1 additional click of damage. If the 12 dice roll result occurs during ranged 
combat, and the attacker attempted to hit multiple targets, all targets receive 1 additional click of 
damage. If the 2 dice roll result occurs during an attempt to heal, the target receives 1 click of 
damage and is not healed. If the 12 dice roll result occurs during an attempt to heal, the healing is 
automatically successful and the target receives 1 additional click of healing. 
 
A result of 2 when attempting to disarm a trap always indicates failure and a result of 12 
always indicates success. 
 
TREASURE AND TRAPS 
 
The maximum number of treasure chests a player can possess at any time is equal to twice 
the number of Heroes he has in the dungeon. 
 
Exposing the Trap 
 
All treasures may have traps. 
 
Before the Hero can gather the treasure, he must face the trap. It costs 0 speed points to 
expose a trap, and a Hero can be in any square adjacent to the treasure chest to expose the trap. 
The player exposes the trap by rolling 1 six-sided die and clicks the trap tumbler a number of 
clicks clockwise equal to the result. 
 
The trap that appears must be encountered before the Hero can gather the treasure. 
 
If the trap space is blank, the Hero has lucked out and found a trapless treasure! 
 
If the treasure chest has a trap, it must be disarmed. 
 
Disarming the Trap 
 
The Hero must be standing in the front arc of the chest to disarm the trap and gather the 
treasure. The Hero can disarm the trap quickly or slowly. 
 
***INSERT TREASURE FRONT ARC PHOTO*** 
Heroes must be in the front arc of a treasure chest to disarm the trap or gather the treasure. 
***END TREASURE FRONT ARC PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
To disarm the trap quickly, the Hero spends 3 speed points and rolls 2 six-sided dice, adding 
the results. If the total is equal to or greater than the disarming number, the trap has been 
disarmed. If the total is less than the disarming number, the trap is sprung. 
 
***INSERT TREASURE CHEST TRAP PHOTO*** 
Insert 
Trap Attack Value 
Trap Damage Value 
Type of Attack 
Range 
Trap Disarming Number 
Total Mage Spawn Appearing 
Maximum Mage Spawn in Points 
***END TREASURE CHEST TRAP PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
To disarm the trap slowly, the Hero spends 6 speed points and uses the rules for disarming 
the trap quickly, adding 2 to his dice roll result. 
 
Certain special abilities can affect this action. 
 
If the Hero is successful, the chest may be opened without facing the effect of the trap. 
 
Springing the Trap 
 
If the Hero has failed in his attempt to disarm the trap, the trap has sprung. 
 
First, the player’s opponent consults the trap dial to see if numbers appear in the slots under 
total Mage Spawn appearing and maximum Mage Spawn in points. If numbers appear in these 

 
slots, place Mage Spawn according to the rules for placing Mage Spawn in Converting Tokens to 
Mage Spawn, p. 10. 
 
If these slots are blank, then no Mage Spawn appear. 
 
The next four slots indicate the damage the trap can inflict. The letter in the slot for the type of 
attack slot indicates one of three types of attack. 
 
 
An H in this slot indicates that the damage is only applied to the Hero working with the trap. 
Resolve this attack as a close combat attack; the player’s opponent makes the attack dice roll. 
 
***INSERT HERO ONLY (H) ATTACK PHOTO*** 
H means only the Hero that sprung the trap takes damage. 
***END HERO ONLY (H) ATTACK PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
A T in this slot indicates that the trap has an area of effect attack that affects all Heroes and 
Mage Spawn on the same tile as the treasure chest, as if the trap had belched out a cloud of gas. 
This attack ignores line of fire. If the Hero is on a different tile than the treasure, this attack affects 
all figures on both tiles. The player’s opponent makes the attack dice roll and adds the result to 
the attack value. Compare the result to each Hero and Mage Spawn on the tile(s). Each figure hit 
takes the damage indicated on the trap. 
 
***INSERT TILE (H) ATTACK PHOTO*** 
T means all figures on the tile with the Hero and the Treasure Chest are attacked. 
***END TILE (H) ATTACK PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
An R in this slot means the attack has a ranged attack. The range is measured from the front 
arc of the treasure as if darts were shooting from the chest. The player’s opponent makes the 
attack dice roll. Use all rules for ranged attacks against multiple targets, except that every figure 
hit takes the damage indicated on the trap. Heroes and Mage Spawn can block line of fire, though 
the Hero opening the treasure chest never blocks line of fire in a ranged attack. 
 
***INSERT RANGE (R) ATTACK PHOTO*** 
R means all figures in the front arc of the treasure chest are attacked. The standard line of fire 
rules apply. 
***END RANGE (R) ATTACK PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
 
An area-effect (T) or ranged (R) attack from a treasure chest trap takes effect even if other 
Heroes or Mage Spawn are standing in squares adjacent to the treasure. These figures can block 
line of fire to other Heroes or Mage Spawn for a ranged attack. 
 
Wandering Monster Tokens 
 
If a wandering monster token is in position to take damage from a sprung treasure trap, the 
token is converted. Place the Mage Spawn using the standard rules, then compare each Mage 
Spawn’s defense value to the treasure trap’s attack value. If the attack value is higher than the 
defense value, the Mage Spawn take the damage indicated. This damage can eliminate Mage 
Spawn as they are placed. 
 
GATHERING THE TREASURE 
 
Once the trap has been disarmed or sprung, the Hero can open the chest. It costs 2 speed 
points to open the chest and gather the treasure. Treasure chests contain special abilities, gold 
and magic items. 
 
If a colored circle or square appears in the first three slots, the Hero can gain the 
corresponding special ability. 
 
***INSERT TREASURE DIAL PHOTO*** 

 
Hero Attack Bonus 
A number here indicates an increase in the Hero’s attack value. 
 
Hero Speed Bonus 
A number here indicates an increase in the Hero’s movement. 
 
Hero Defense Bonus 
A number here indicates an increase in the Hero’s defense value. 
 
Gold 
The number of gold pieces the treasure contains. 
 
Type of Item 
The name of the item the Hero finds in the chest. 
***END TREASURE DIAL PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Maximum Treasure 
 
Players who have collected their maximum allowed number of treasure chests cannot expose 
new traps, disarm traps, voluntarily abandon treasure, or swap treasure with another player. 
 
Traps! 
 
Some treasure chests are nothing more than a devious trick. Instead of treasure, it’s another 
trap. The word [insert trap icon] will appear in the treasure slot when the chest is opened. 
 
The player whose Hero is opening the trap shuts the treasure chest, rolls 1 six-sided die and 
turns the trap tumbler a number of clicks equal to the result. That Hero now faces the new trap. 
The Hero does not get an opportunity to disarm the new trap. It is automatically sprung. Once the 
encounter with the trap has ended, the treasure chest is removed from the dungeon. 
 
No additional experience is gained from the second trap. 
 
USING THE TREASURE 
 
Once a Hero has gathered the treasure, the player removes the treasure chest from the 
dungeon and places the treasure chest in front of him. The player must show the treasure to the 
other players to prove it is not a trap. 
 
At the start of each player’s turn, he or she can assign a treasure’s magical abilities to his or 
her Heroes. 
 
To assign magical abilities to a Hero, the player places the open treasure chest 
near the Hero on the dungeon tiles. For the remainder of that player’s turn, the Hero (and only 
that Hero) may use the bonuses the treasure grants. Each Hero can be assigned a maximum of 
two treasures. A Hero cannot have two of the same type of magic items at the same time. At the 
end of the player’s turn and before the next player begins his turn, the chest(s) are removed. The 
Heroes revert to their standard statistics until the beginning of the player’s next turn. The effects 
of items can be used multiple times, with the exception of Potions. 
 
If the word Potion appears, the effects of the treasure can only be used once, but they last 
longer. An item with the word Potion on it lasts until the beginning of that player’s next turn. Once 
the potion is used, close the lid of the chest until the end of the game. This treasure chest cannot 
be assigned to a Hero for the rest of the game. 
 
The gold in the treasure is still used to determine victory. 
 
***INSERT TREASURE CHEST USE PHOTO*** 
Lord Oren and Zenephret have treasures assigned to them and gain the magical abilities the 
treasures grant. On the next turn, the player may assign one of these treasure chests to Scholar-
magus Bessa instead. 
***END TREASURE CHEST USE PHOTO TEXT*** 
 

 
Magical Special Abilities 
 
If a treasure grants a special ability, this magical ability replaces the special ability in that 
Hero’s stat slot. For example, if a Hero has the Weapon Master special ability (the red square 
over the Attack value) and a treasure offers Sweep (the black circle over the Attack value), 
Sweep replaces Weapon Master for that turn. 
 
If any conflict occurs in special abilities affecting the same action, only one can be used. 
Attack and damage resolution are considered to be two separate elements of the same action, so 
a special ability that affects the Damage value and one that affects the Attack value can be used 
in the same action. For example, Weapon Master and Berserk can be used together, but Magic 
Blast and Magic Freeze cannot. 
 
GAINING EXPERIENCE 
 
Heroes improve their levels by collecting Experience Points. They collect experience points 
by defeating enemies and facing traps. As Heroes gain experience, they improve their level, gain 
new powers and become specialized characters in the game. 
 
A Hero gains experience points for disarming or springing traps. In addition, if during combat 
a Hero successfully delivers an attack that eliminates the opposing figure from the game (its 
combat dial shows all skulls), that Hero is considered the victor and the eliminated figure is 
removed from the dungeon. 
 
The victor gains experience points as follows. 
 
• For Mage Spawn, use the monster’s point value. Note the point value on a piece of paper, 
and return the Mage Spawn to the pool. 
 
• For Heroes, use the point value of the maximum level the Hero achieved in the game. Note 
the point value on a piece of paper, and return the Hero to the owning player. 
 
• Successfully disarming a trap earns 50 experience points. 
 
• Springing a trap earns 25 experience points. 
 
• If a treasure is trapless, no experience points are gained. 
 
 
You can improve a Hero by one level for every 50 experience points accumulated. As soon 
as you have collected 50 experience points, choose a Hero to improve by one level. Turn the 
Hero’s combat dial clockwise to the next level number. For example, if the Hero improving a level 
is a Level 1 Hero, click the base so that the 2 in the green circle shows in the stat slot (between 
the damage and defense values). 
 
Improving a level automatically heals any current damage. 
 
Experience points must be calculated immediately every time an opponent is eliminated or a 
trap is encountered. You should keep a running total; you can improve a Hero by one level at 50 
experience points, then at 100 experience points, then at 150, and so on. As soon as you reach 
one of these thresholds, you must immediately improve a Hero. If you accumulate enough points 
to improve multiple levels at once, each level must be assigned to a different Hero. 
 
If a Hero is at Level 5, each threshold of experience points that could improve him by a level 
effectively heals the figure back to Level 5. 
 
Use the level counters to track the current level of a figure. 
 
***INSERT LEVEL INDICATOR*** 
Level 
***END LEVEL INDICATOR TEXT*** 
 
Level Improvement Mid-Activation 
 
If a Hero improves by a level in the middle of their activation, they may immediately begin 
using their new attack, defense and damage values as well as any new special abilities their new 
level grants them. However, they must finish their activation using their current speed points. 
 
ENDING THE GAME 

 
 
As soon as a player gathers treasure, he can maneuver his Hero out of the dungeon through 
its designated exit. A Hero cannot exit the dungeon until the player has acquired at least one 
treasure chest. The game ends when there are no longer any Heroes left in the dungeon. 
 
Once all the Heroes have left the dungeon or been eliminated, the players add up their gold. 
 
The player with the highest total of gold successfully carried out of the dungeon wins the 
 
ADVANCED RULES 
 
The following rules add more depth, more players, and more options to the MK Dungeons 
 
USING THE MK DUNGEONS BUILDER’S KIT 
 
You can expand your playing options and create unique dungeons using Dungeons tiles, 
terrain markers and doors are available in the MK Dungeons Builder’s Kit. 
 
Each of the three MK Dungeons Builder’s Kits contains 6 unique tiles. 
 
SET UP THE BOARD 
 
If you are using the MK Dungeons Builder’s Kit, follow Step 2: Lay Out the Dungeons Tiles 
instead of Step 2: Lay Out the Map. Insert the new Step 3: Place Special Terrain and Doors 
before placing the treasure chests. 
 
No treasure chests, wandering monster tokens, special terrain or doors can be placed in the 
chamber connected to a starting hallway. 
 
STEP 2: LAY OUT THE DUNGEON TILES 
 
If you are using the tiles included in the Dungeons Builder’s Kit in your game, then creating 
the dungeon is part of the game. 
 
The maps and tiles use the same terminology, squares for movement and icons to distinguish 
types of terrain or obstacles. The maps were created using the tiles. Hallway tiles are 3 squares 
by 5 squares; the chamber tiles are 5 squares by 5 squares. 
 
To create the dungeon, each player chooses five Dungeons tiles, including a minimum of 
three chambers and one hallway. Set aside the remaining tiles. 
 
The starting player places a chamber tile in the center of the playing surface. This is the 
central chamber of the dungeon. Next, the player to the left places a tile according to the following 
criteria: 
 
• You must be able to draw a continuous path of playable squares from the new tile to the 
central chamber. 
 
• The last tile each player places must be a hallway tile. Place this tile so that it creates an 
entrance to the dungeon. This tile must connect to a single chamber, only. 
 
***INSERT CORRECT TILE PLACEMENT PHOTO*** 
Correct Placement 
***END CORRECT TILE PLACEMENT PHOTO TEXT*** 
 
Tiles That Don’t Fit 
 
If you have a tile in which neither side fits the current dungeon formation (according to the 
above criteria), set aside that tile and randomly choose another tile from the ones left over in the 
initial selection. If there are no tiles left to select or no tiles fit the dungeon formation, then you are 
finished placing tiles. All players must then place their hallway tiles. 
 
Dead Ends 
 
Most tiles have multiple entryways. Entryways that end in walls or with “open ends” to nothing 
are considered dead ends. All these paths are considered to end in blocking terrain at the edge of 
the tile. 
 

 
STEP 3: PLACE SPECIAL TERRAIN AND DOORS 
 
The MK Dungeons Builder’s Kit provides four different terrain markers and four doors. 
Players should agree on the terrain and doors to be used before beginning play, and use those 
pieces to create a pool from which each player draws a single piece. Each player then places 
terrain or doors, beginning with the starting player. Special terrain and doors cannot be placed in 
any player’s starting hallway tile or connected chamber tile. 
 
Terrain Markers 
 
One side of the terrain markers corresponds to standard hindering and water terrain. The 
other side represents unique terrain features: shadowed terrain, the vortex, the teleporting 
chamber, and staircases. The terrain on the marker replaces the terrain on the map or tile. 
 
***INSERT TERRAIN IMAGES*** 
Shadowed Terrain 
Vortex 
Teleport 
Staircase 
***END TERRAIN IMAGES TEXT*** 
 
 
Two squares have a 1/t indication, Teleport and Vortex. Use of a teleport or vortex movement 
is optional. To teleport, it costs 1 speed point to enter the square. This movement ends the 
character’s activation. On the next turn, the character is placed on another open Teleport square. 
A character cannot teleport to an occupied teleport square. Teleporting uses all the character’s 
speed points. 
 
The Vortex square costs 1 point to enter. This movement ends the character’s activation. On 
the character’s next turn, the player rotates the tile 90 degrees in either direction. Spinning the tile 
uses all the character’s speed points. 
 
The staircase can be used to move between levels of a dungeons and is best suited for 
campaign games. 
 
Doors 
 
There are two types of doors: wooden and iron. Once opened, wooden doors remain open, 
while iron doors swing closed after each use. 
 
When placing a door, the sides of the doorway must connect to a wall on either side. 
 
Doors function as obstacles and block line of fire when closed. Doors cost 2 speed points to 
open. Wooden doors can be closed for 1 speed point. 
 
A door can be opened and can be destroyed with an attack using the standard close combat 
rules. A wooden door has a defense value of 10 and an iron door has a defense value of 15. 
 
The only way to open a door with a ranged attack is to use the following special abilities: 
Magic Blast, Flame/Lightning, or Shockwave. Flame/Lightning and Shockwave affect other 
Heroes and Mage Spawn per their special abilities descriptions. 
 
A door opened using an attack can never be closed. 
 
***INSERT DOOR PHOTOS*** 
Correct placement 
The door’s sides connect to walls on either side. 
 
Incorrect placement 
The door is not connected to walls. 
***END DOOR PHOTOS TEXT*** 
 
USING HEROIC TEAMS 
 
As soon as you buy a MK Dungeons Booster, you can begin expanding your game to 
include multiple Heroes, allowing each player to play with a HeroicTeam. Playing with more 

 
components adds some complexity to the game, and the following rules cover the new situations 
that will arise. Each rule is labeled according to the section in which the full rule appeared. 
 
STEP 1: CHOOSE YOUR HEROES 
 
A standard Heroic Team consists of a group of Heroes whose total point value does not 
exceed 100 points, which usually equals four characters. Use the point value printed on the 
sticker attached to each figure’s base to choose the Heroes for your Team. 
 
Heroes can begin the game at Level 1 or Level 2. 
 
Heroes are unique; a Heroic Team can include only one of any given character. 
 
You can create Heroic Teams with higher total point values, but playing a game with a bigger 
team takes longer. 
 
If your Heroic Team is larger than 100 points, each player places an additional tile for every 
additional 50 points in their team, rounding up to the nearest 50. For example, in a 200-point 
Dungeons game, each player would place 7 tiles. 
 
STEP 3: PLACE THE TREASURE CHESTS 
 
Each player places treasure chests in the Treasure Pool. Each player must place at least a 
number of treasure chests equal to the number of Heroes in his Heroic Team. 
 
The starting player takes one treasure from the pool, spins the treasure dial and places the 
chest in the central chamber. The next player chooses a treasure, spins the treasure dial and 
places the chest in any other chamber tile. 
 
Each player may place only two treasure chests. 
 
Before the game begins, players may agree to increase or decrease the number of treasure 
chests placed in the dungeon. Adding more treasure chests may make the game take longer to 
play. 
 
STEP 4: PLACE WANDERING MONSTER TOKENS 
 
Wandering monster tokens come in three levels: Weak (printed in yellow), Standard (printed 
in blue) and Tough (printed in red; available in the MK Dungeons Builder’s Kit). To create a 
monster token pool, each player contributes 2 Standard tokens and 4 Weak tokens. The 
monsters generated by the Tough tokens can easily defeat low-level Heroes, so use Tough 
tokens only if you want a more difficult challenge. If using the Tough tokens, replace one Weak 
token with the Tough token. 
 
If a tile contains a treasure chest, two wandering monster tokens can be placed on that tile. 
 
Before the game begins, players may agree to increase or decrease the number of 
wandering monster tokens placed in the dungeon. Adding more wandering monster tokens may 
make the game take longer to play. 
 
STEP 5: CREATE THE MAGE SPAWN POOL 
 
All players contribute to the Mage Spawn pool, which supplies all monsters that appear when 
Heroes encounter wandering monster tokens. Each player must contribute a minimum number of 
Mage Spawn equal to the number of Heroes in their Heroic Team. The minimum total point value 
of Mage Spawn contributed to the pool must be 100 points. You can contribute as many Mage 
Spawn as you want; the more monsters, the merrier. 
 
STEP 6: CHOOSE ENTRANCE AND EXIT 
 
The starting player chooses a hallway tile entrance for his Heroic Team and places a colored 
arrow on the opening to the dungeon. The opposing player chooses the remaining arrow of the 
same color and chooses the exit for the first player’s team. Any square that opens to the exterior 
of the dungeon can serve as an exit; the exit does not need to be on a hallway tile. The opposing 
player then chooses the entrance for his Team, and the starting player chooses the exit. 
 
If you are only using one set of six tiles, designate the exits as the other player’s entrances. 
This change makes for better dungeon construction. 
 

 
Activations 
 
Each player may perform a number of activations per turn equal to the number of Heroes with 
which they begin the game. 
 
First Turn Movement 
 
A player must move his Heroes into the dungeon on the first turn. Heroes can then encounter 
and fight Mage Spawn, encounter wandering monster tokens, or attempt to disarm treasure, if it 
has the speed points to do it. Players may not move wandering monster tokens or activate Mage 
Spawn until the entire Heroic Team has entered the dungeon. 
 
Treasure and Traps 
 
The maximum number of treasure chests a player can possess at any time is equal to twice 
the number of Heroes he has in the dungeon. 
 
No member of a player’s Heroic Team can exit the dungeon until the Team has gathered at 
least one treasure chest. 
 
Losing Treasure 
 
When a Hero is eliminated before he or she can exit the dungeon, check to see if the player 
will exceed the treasure chest limit when the Hero is removed from play. If the limit is exceeded, 
the extra treasures are placed back in the dungeon. 
 
The player shuts all of his treasures and mixes them up. His opponent randomly chooses as 
many as needed to restore the two treasure per Hero ratio. The first treasure is placed on the 
square from which the Hero was eliminated. The second must be placed in the same tile. 
 
All treasure chests returned to the dungeon are reset to the blank trap space. The treasure 
slot remains the same. The next Hero who attempts to gather the treasure must attempt to disarm 
it according to the Disarming the Trap rules, p. 13. 
 
Stealing Treasure 
 
You can also acquire treasure by stealing it from an opposing Hero. To steal a treasure from 
an opposing Hero, your Hero must have the target in their front arc. 
 
First, declare that the Hero will make a theft maneuver. A theft maneuver costs 4 speed 
points. Roll 2 six-sided dice and add the result to your attack value. Compare the result to the 
defense value of the target, adding 2 to their defense value. If the number equals or is greater 
than the revised defense value, the theft is a success and you then choose a treasure chest at 
random from the owner of the target Hero. 
 
The targeted Hero does get to make a counterattack, except if the thieving Hero has one of 
the following special abilities: nimble, limited invisibility, stealth or quickness. If the counterattack 
inflicts damage, the thieving Hero drops the treasure on the tile in the legal square nearest the 
attacker. Reset the trap. 
A theft maneuver does not end a figure’s movement. 
 
If the treasure contains a potion that has already been used, the potion is still gone but the 
gold still counts toward winning the game. 
 
MULTIPLE PLAYERS 
 
In all versions of MK Dungeons, including the Lone Wolf version, more than two people can 
play. More players means larger dungeons and more monsters, which will add extra time to the 
 
Use the standard rules, with the following exceptions. 
 
Any time a rule states “the opposing player,” this role should be taken by the player to the 
right. 
 
At the beginning of the game, the starting player receives a token that designates them as 
the Monster Master. A specially designed Monster Master Token is included in the MK Dungeons 
Builder’s Kit, but you can use anything to represent this token. This token will be passed from 
player to player as the game proceeds. 

 
 
When a Mage Spawn or wandering monster token is activated, place a movement marker on 
or next to it. This marker can be anything the players agree to use; pennies, glass or plastic 
beads, or anything else that doesn’t take up too much space. Once a Mage Spawn or 
wandering monster token has been marked with a movement marker, that figure or token cannot 
be moved again until the marker is removed. Mage Spawn can counterattack as normal and 
wandering monster tokens convert as normal when encountered. 
 
When the player who has the Monster Master Token gets his next turn, he plays as normal. 
At the end of his turn he passes the Monster Master Token to the player on his left. That player is 
the new Monster Master. The new Monster Master removes all the tokens from the Mage Spawn 
and wandering monster tokens, and can activate any of them on his turn according to the 
standard rules. 
 
 
USING MK REBELLION WARRIORS IN MK DUNGEONS 
 
Using MK Rebellion warriors in MK Dungeons adds options to your MK Rebellion games, 
including interior battles and campaign adventures. When playing MK Dungeons, make sure you 
use the MK Dungeons rules, including the MK Dungeons Special Ability Card. 
 
Rule Changes 
The following MK Rebellion rules do not apply in MK Dungeons. 
 
• There are no range or close combat formations. 
 
• There are no movement formations. 
 
• Figures cannot be pushed or captured. 
 
• Dragons are the only multi-dial figures that can be used in MK Dungeons. Mounted figures 
cannot be used in Dungeons. 
 
• Mage Spawn cannot be part of a player’s army. 
 
• Any Rebellion figure can be used in the Mage Spawn pool. 
 
Experience 
Mage Knight Rebellion figures gain experience normally, but can only use the experience points 
for healing purposes. So for every 50 experience points gained the player can heal one warrior to 
starting level. 
 
USING MK DUNGEONS WARRIORS IN MK REBELLION 
 
Mage Knight Heroes and Mage Spawn can join outdoor battles using the rules for Mage 
Knight Rebellion. When playing MK Rebellion, make sure you use the MK Rebellion rules, 
including the MK Rebellion Special Ability Card. 
 
Factions 
Mage Knight Heroes are a unique faction. The Hero faction uses the standard 
MK Rebellion rules for formations. 
 
Starting Point and Point Value 
All Dungeons Heroes should start at Level 5 in MK Rebellion, using the Level 5 point value cost. 
You can start your Hero at a lower level if you choose by paying the point value for the lower level 
and using a MK Dungeons level counter to show your Hero’s level. A Hero cannot be healed 
above its starting level. 
 
CREDITS 
Combat Dial System, Mage Knight Dungeons High Concept, and Universe: 
Jordan Weisman 
 
Mage Knight Dungeons Rules and Development: 
Michael Mulvihill 
 
Mage Knight Dungeons Stats and Warriors: 

 
Kevin Barrett, Michael Mulvihill, Ian Redditt, Matt Robinson 
 
Original Mage Knight Rebellion Rules, Stats and Warriors: 
Kevin Barrett 
 
Editor: Sharon Turner Mulvihill 
 
Playtesting Director: Jim Long 
Playtesters: Dustin Babitzke, Tony Burian, David Chase, Jason Carl, James Carrott, Dan 
Chinnery, Theresa Chinnery, Dennis Chitko, Patrick Dolan, Kevin Goddard, Dan Grendell, Chris 
Hartford, Brian Hill, Derek Levesque, Issac King, Jason King, Keith Marston, Kevin McDermott, 
Lucas McWilliams, John Meeks, Sean Migneault, Paul Nobles, Josh Osborne, Martin Osborne, 
Kevin Perrine, Chris Philbrook, Gordon Rose, Jess Rummens, John Schmidt, Mike Schmidt, 
Chris Trossen, Bruce Wehrle 
And a special thanks to all the other playtesters who tested MK Dungeons, including all those 
guinea pigs at GenCon 2001. For a complete list of playtesters, go to www.wizkidsgames.com. 
 
Art Direction: Dawne Weisman, Sandra Garavito 
 
Sculpts: Jeff Grace, Bob Naismith, Tim Prow, Jeff Wilhelm, Steve Saunders, 
Dave Summers, Bob Naismith. 
 
Graphic Design Team: Sandra Garavito, Kevin Perrine, Chris Steely, Darren Elosh, Idea & 
Design Works 
 
Illustrations: Jeff Laubenstein, David Michael Beck, Franz Vohwinkel 
 
WizKids Print Production and Communication: Tina Wegner 
 
© 2002 WizKids, LLC. MAGE KNIGHT, MAGE KNIGHT DUNGEONS and the MK logo are trademarks of WizKids, LLC. 
All rights reserved. Patent Pending