This is Mage Knight!
In Mage Knight, you take the role of a powerful warlord: a king, baron or high wizard who sends his troops 
out to do battle with opposing armies. Races of fantastic beings populate your army, while arcane magic and 
powerful technologies arm them. If you are up to the task of carving a kingdom out of chaos, then read on! 
Hint: When you are reading these rules, you will see game terms printed in italics. These terms are deﬁ ned 
in the glossary, p. 15.
Mage Knight is a fast-playing game of tabletop combat using collectable Mage Knight miniatures. Each 
miniature is called a warrior (or ﬁ gure), and is a member of one of several different factions. If a ﬁ gure has no 
faction symbol, it is a Mage Spawn and cannot use faction-based rules. 
Complete Rules of Play
THIS IS MAGE KNIGHT ....................... 1
 Mage Knight Warriors...................... 2
 
The Base ..................................... 2
 
The Combat Dial ........................ 2
 
Combat Values............................ 3
 
Mounted Warriors....................... 3
 Game Items...................................... 3
GETTING STARTED............................... 3
 Building your Army......................... 3
 Setting the Scene ............................. 4
HOW TO PLAY ..................................... 4
 Turns and Actions............................ 4
 Important Game Concepts .............. 5
 
Base Contact............................... 5
 
Friendly and Opposing Figures ..... 5
 
Marking Figures with Actions ..... 5
 
Pushing ....................................... 5
 
Measurements............................. 6
 
Special Abilities........................... 6
 Movement........................................ 6
 
Breaking Away ........................... 6
 
Free Spin ..................................... 6
 
A Moved Warrior........................ 7
 Combat............................................. 7
 
 
Overview ....................................7
 
 
Ranged Combat ..........................8
 
 
Close Combat..............................9
FORMATIONS ........................................9
 
Movement Formations...................10
 
Combat Formations .......................10
 
Shyfts .............................................11
TERRAIN.............................................12
 
Clear Terrain..................................12
 
Hindering Terrain ..........................12
 
Blocking Terrain............................12
 
Elevated Terrain Types ..................12
 
Special Terrain ...............................13
ENDING THE GAME ............................14
 
Victory! ..........................................14
 
 
Withdrawing .............................14
THE STANDARD GAME.......................14
MAGE KNIGHT ETIQUETTE ...............15
GLOSSARY...........................................15
contents
ATLANTIS
GUILD
ELEMENTAL
LEAGUE
NECROPOLIS 
SECT
BLACK POWDER 
REBELS
KNIGHTS
IMMORTAL
ORC
RAIDERS
DRACONUM
SHYFT
SOLONAVI
HERO
TM

When you and your friends get together for a Mage Knight game, you each build an army from your own 
collection of warriors. You can build your army hundreds of different ways, using ﬁ gures from a single 
faction or mixing warriors from several factions together. In the current age of chaos, armies of every possible 
conﬁ guration have been seen on the battleﬁ eld.
You can play Mage Knight with as many people as you like, but the game plays best when there are two, 
three or four players, each with a unique army. You can also play battles with two (or more) sides, with two 
or more teammates allied on each side. Using these rules, you will ﬁ ght your armies against one another to 
see who can claim victory!
Mage Knight Warriors
A Mage Knight miniature is composed of three main parts: the ﬁ gure, the base and the combat dial.
THE BASE
Each warrior’s base contains important information.
Hint: Collectors will want to know that there are 160 different Mage Knight warriors in the Unlimited 
set. Some ﬁ gures look the same, but have different ranks, paint schemes and combat dials to identify 
them. Each ﬁ gure’s base has a collector’s number on it so that you can keep track of your collection.
THE COMBAT DIAL
The combat dial is the unique feature that sets Mage Knight apart from all other miniatures games. The 
combat dial is the rotating disk found under each ﬁ gure’s base. Each warrior’s combat dial shows sets of 
numbers that tell you how good your warrior is at doing certain things. Each time your warrior takes a 
click of damage during the game, you click the combat dial clockwise to the next set of numbers. Each 
time your warrior takes damage, his combat dial numbers change, often reducing his 
effectiveness. When your warrior takes a click of healing during the game, click his combat 
dial counter-clockwise.
The bases on all mounted warriors and some unmounted warriors turn from underneath 
the dial; to make turning these dials easy, we have included a Mage Knight ring in each 
Starter Set.
STAT SLOT
COLLECTOR’S 
NUMBER
FRONT ARC
CHARACTER
NAME
REAR ARC
FACTION SYMBOL
POINT VALUE
★ = Weak
★★ = Standard
★★★ = Tough
No Stars = Unique
RANK

COMBAT VALUES
Each warrior has ﬁ ve combat values. Four of these 
values can change during the game: speed, attack, 
defense and damage. They are on the combat dial, 
and can be seen through the stat slot. The ﬁ fth value 
is range, which never changes and is printed on the 
base. Each value appears next to its symbol.
MOUNTED WARRIORS
Some Mage Knight ﬁ gures found in certain expansion sets have a “peanut” 
shaped double base. A double base ﬁ gure printed with a horseshoe symbol 
next to the speed value is called a mounted warrior. Mounted warriors 
follow all rules for normal ﬁ gures, except where noted in these rules.
Game Items
In addition to your Mage Knight warriors and this rules booklet, you will need the following items to play: an 
18-inch ﬂ exible ruler marked in 1-inch increments and 2 six-sided dice. These items are supplied in the Mage 
Knight Unlimited starter set. In addition, you will need a few coins or beads to use as tokens during the game. 
You may also want to collect some simple terrain items.
There are round blank stickers provided with each pack of Mage Knight warriors. You can attach one of these 
to the bottom of the base of each of your warriors and write your initials on the sticker. These stickers will help 
you to sort out which warriors are yours at the end of each battle. If you use the MK ring for the bases that 
turn from underneath, you can use the sticker supplied. Otherwise, simply trim the stickers supplied to ﬁ t on 
the bottom of the base without covering the turning bar.
Getting Started
There are two things you and your opponents must do before you begin a Mage Knight game. Each of you 
must build your army, and then you must all set the scene.
Building Your Army
Everyone in the game should agree on the build total of each player’s army. Build totals should be in multiples 
of 100 points. While you are learning Mage Knight, use armies with build totals of 100 points. Once you feel 
comfortable with the basics, you can increase the build total of your armies to 200, 300 or more points.
Each Mage Knight warrior has a point value printed on his base. Choose warriors for your army whose point 
values add up to, but do not exceed, your allowed build total. You may also choose warriors that add up to 
less than the build total.
Example: Rich is creating an army with a build total of 100 points. He likes the Atlantis Guild ﬁ gures, so he chooses 
most of his warriors from that faction. 
For its excellent close-combat ability, Rich takes one tough Altem Guardsman (37 points). Next, he chooses one 
weak Demi-magus (22 points) and a tough 
Utem Crossbowman (12 points). Both ﬁ g-
ures have good ranged attacks. Rich also 
selects one standard Utem Guardsman (13 
points). He’s going to use this ﬁ gure to try 
and capture an opposing piece during the 
upcoming battle. Finally, Rich chooses a 
tough Leech Medic (14 points) from the 
Black Powder Rebels. Now his army has 
some healing ability.
Rich adds up the point values of his war-
riors. The total is 98 points (37 + 22 + 12 
+ 13 + 14 = 98). Rich’s warriors add up to less than the build total of 100 points, which is ﬁ ne. However, he could 
not have exceeded 100 points.
Your army may contain two or more of the same ﬁ gure, unless that ﬁ gure is unique. A ﬁ gure is unique 
if it has no rank stars on its base. It’s okay if the same unique ﬁ gure appears in opposing armies on the 
same battleﬁ eld.
SPEED
ATTACK
DEFENSE
RANGE
DAMAGE
 ALTEM
GUARDSMAN
(Tough: 37 Pts)
 LEECH
MEDIC
(Tough: 14 Pts)
 UTEM
GUARDSMAN
(Standard: 13 Pts)
 DEMI-
MAGUS
(Weak: 22 Pts)
 UTEM
CROSSBOWMAN
(Tough: 12 Pts)

Hint: When designing your army, mix and match warriors that work well together and help achieve 
your strategic goals. Armies can be created to keep opponents at a distance with ranged attacks, recycle 
dead ﬁ gures, or capture opposing ﬁ gures. Of course, for each army-building strategy, there is a counter-
strategy, so have enough diversity among your warriors to handle threats your opponents might bring 
to the table. Go to www.mageknight.com to join a community of players who discuss army-building 
strategies and game rules.
Setting the Scene
Now it’s time to create the battleﬁ eld for your game. Mage Knight can be played just about anywhere, but 
a ﬂ at tabletop is best. You should ﬁ nd a square area to play on that’s about three feet long on each side. 
Each player selects one side of the battleﬁ eld to be his starting edge. Along your starting edge, you have an 
imaginary rectangular box called your starting area. Your starting area begins at your edge and extends for 3 
inches into the battleﬁ eld. Your starting area must also be at least 8 inches away from any other edge.
Each player then places from 0 to 4 terrain items in a terrain pool off to the side of the battleﬁ eld. Terrain 
is fully described on p. 12. Many ordinary items can act as terrain: a book, a sheet of paper, a butter dish or 
a saltshaker can all represent terrain.
Next, each player rolls 2 dice. Re-roll ties. Whoever rolls the highest is called the ﬁ rst player.
The ﬁ rst player takes a terrain item out of the terrain pool and places it anywhere on the battleﬁ eld. The player 
to his left then does the same thing. This continues 
among players around the table in a clockwise 
direction until four terrain items have been placed 
or, if there are fewer than four items in the pool, 
until all the terrain has been placed. Each terrain 
item must be placed at least 2 inches away from 
any other terrain item or any edge of the battle-
ﬁ eld, and may not be placed in any player’s start-
ing area.
After terrain has been placed, each player turns 
each of his ﬁ gures’ combat dials so that the green 
square is showing in the damage area of the stat 
slot. This green square shows the ﬁ gure’s Starting 
Position.
The ﬁ rst player then places his army on the battle-
ﬁ eld. Each of his warriors must be placed in his 
starting area. After the ﬁ rst player is ﬁ nished plac-
ing all of his warriors, the player to his left does 
the same thing. If there are more than two players, continue around the table in a clockwise direction.
When the last player has placed his army in his starting area, the battle is ready to begin.
How to Play
In Mage Knight, players alternate moving their warriors and attacking opposing ﬁ gures to win the battle. Here 
are the rules describing how to move individual warriors and conduct combat. 
Turns and Actions
Mage Knight is played in a series of turns. The ﬁ rst player takes the ﬁ rst turn. The player to his left takes 
the next turn and so on, clockwise around the table. If a player is eliminated from the game, the remaining 
players continue taking turns in the same order.
You begin each turn with a certain number of actions. This number remains the same for the entire game. The 
number of actions you get depends on the build total of your army: you get 1 action for every 100 points of 
your army’s build total. Therefore, an army with a build total of 100 points gives you 1 action every turn. A 
build total of 200 points gives you 2 actions every turn; 300 points gives 3 actions, and so on. Your action total 
remains the same even when your warriors are eliminated or captured.
During your turn, you assign your actions to your warriors. You can see the result of one action before 

choosing the next action (if you have more than one action available). No warrior may ever be given more 
than one action per turn. If you have more actions than warriors, you lose the extra actions. You cannot save or 
accumulate actions from turn to turn. Each action must be chosen from the following four options.
1. Move one warrior.
2. Ranged combat, performed by one warrior.
3. Close combat, performed by one warrior.
4. Pass. If you give this action to a warrior, he neither moves nor resolves an attack.
Once you have resolved all of your actions during your turn, it is the next player’s turn. Play proceeds with 
each player taking a turn and giving all available actions to his warriors.
Example: Matt has nine warriors in his 200-point army. He gets two actions at the beginning of each 
of his turns. During one of his turns, Matt wants to take a shot at one enemy ﬁ gure and move closer to 
another one. Matt gives a ranged combat action to one of his warriors, and after resolving his attack, 
he gives a move action to a different warrior. Matt has now given his two actions to two different 
warriors and his turn is over. Note that he could have given two warriors move actions, or two warriors 
ranged or close combat actions. There is no restriction on the mix of actions that you can give to 
your warriors on any given turn.
Hint: As you can see, in small 100- or 200-point games, turns go by very quickly. Don’t worry if you 
don’t accomplish everything you want to do in a single turn. Your opponents are playing under the same 
restriction, and it will be your turn again very soon!
Important Game Concepts
Before the different actions are described, here are some important game concepts.
BASE CONTACT
Several rules refer to base contact. A ﬁ gure is in base contact with another ﬁ gure if their bases are touching.
FRIENDLY AND OPPOSING FIGURES
Friendly ﬁ gures are warriors that you control in the game, or ﬁ gures that are controlled by an allied teammate. 
Opposing ﬁ gures are any warriors controlled by an opponent. Friendly and opposing status is determined at 
the beginning of the game and cannot change.
MARKING FIGURES WITH ACTIONS
If you give an action (other than pass) to one of your warriors, mark him with an action token, such as a coin 
or bead. This token will remind all players which ﬁ gures have taken actions. At the end of your turn, remove all 
tokens from your ﬁ gures not given an action this turn.
PUSHING
If you give an action (other than pass) to the same war-
rior on two consecutive turns, that warrior takes 1 click 
of damage after he resolves his current action. This is 
called pushing; the damage represents the fatigue caused 
by taking actions back to back. You may not give any 
warrior an action (other than pass) on three consecutive 
turns. 
Hint: The tokens that you use to mark your war-
riors remind you which ﬁ gures could take the 
pushing penalty. If you are going to push a warrior, 
put a second token on him and leave both until 
your next turn. On that turn, the two tokens will 
remind you that you can’t give the warrior any 
action other than pass. At the end of the turn, 
remove both tokens.
This warrior was moved on two of his owning player’s 
consecutive turns. It is pushed and given its second token. 
After the pushing action is resolved, the player must give it 
a click of damage.

MEASUREMENTS
When measuring distances for set-up, movement and ranged combat, always measure to and from the center 
of a ﬁ gure’s base. Many bases show a center dot as a measurement reference. You may measure anything 
on the battleﬁ eld at any time.
SPECIAL ABILITIES
There are colored squares on each ﬁ gure’s combat dial. These colored squares are associated with areas of 
the stat slot and represent special abilities that your warrior possesses. Special abilities come and go as your 
warrior takes clicks of damage and healing. You will ﬁ nd descriptions of all special abilities on the Mage 
Knight Special Abilities Card.
All special abilities are in effect as long as they appear in the stat slot. If a special ability is described as 
optional, it is assumed to be in effect unless it is canceled. The owning player may cancel the effect at 
any time, in which case it is canceled until the end of the current turn. Afterwards, it is assumed to be in 
effect again.
Movement
Your warrior’s current speed value appears on his combat dial. This is the number of inches you may move 
your warrior when you give him a move action. 
When you move a warrior, place the Mage Knight 
ﬂ exible ruler on the battleﬁ eld. Measure from the 
center of your warrior’s base to the desired destina-
tion, curving the ruler as necessary to show the 
ﬁ gure’s exact movement path. 
The movement path shown by the ﬂ exible ruler 
may not cross any ﬁ gure bases and may not pass 
between two ﬁ gures in base contact.
When all players are satisﬁ ed that the correct move-
ment path is shown by the ﬂ exible ruler, pick up 
your warrior and place him at his new position on 
the battleﬁ eld. When you have ﬁ nished positioning 
your warrior, you may face him in any direction. 
The direction that your warrior is facing is impor-
tant because he may only attack (using ranged and 
close combat actions) through his front arc.
BREAKING AWAY
If you give a move action to a warrior that is in base contact with one or more opposing ﬁ gures, that warrior 
must attempt to break away. Roll 1 six-sided die. If you roll a 1, 2 or 3, the warrior fails to break away and may 
not change his position on the battleﬁ eld, though you can rotate him to a new facing. If you roll a 4, 5 or 6, you 
have succeeded in breaking away from all opposing ﬁ gures in base contact: you may change your warrior’s 
position on the battleﬁ eld as described above.
A mounted warrior only fails to break away from opposing ﬁ gures on a roll of 1. A mounted warrior that 
fails a break away attempt may not rotate to a new facing. When a mounted warrior successfully breaks 
away from one or more opposing ﬁ gures in base contact outside of his front arc, he automatically inﬂ icts 
1 click of shake off damage on each of those opposing ﬁ gures. This damage can be reduced by Toughness 
and Invulnerability.
A warrior who is given a move action to activate a special ability, where the ability states “but do not move 
him” (e.g., Magic Levitation, Necromancy and Regeneration), does not make a break away roll.
FREE SPIN
If your warrior’s movement brings him into base contact with one or more opposing ﬁ gures, those opposing 
ﬁ gures immediately have the option to spin in place to bring any portion of their front arcs into contact 
with your moving warrior. These spins, called free spins, do not cost your opponent any actions, nor do they 
ever cause pushing.
 

Example: Derek’s Utem Guardsman has a speed value of 8. He gives the Guardsman a move action. 
An opposing Crystal Bladesman controlled by Brian is a few inches away. Derek checks that the path of 
the movement is okay, picks up his Utem Guardsman and places it in base contact with the Bladesman. 
Brian uses his free spin to put the Bladesman’s front arc in contact with the Guardsman.
A mounted warrior does not get a free spin when an opposing ﬁ gure comes into base contact.
A MOVED WARRIOR
A warrior is considered to have moved if his center dot changes position on the battleﬁ eld at any time during 
the game, or if his facing is changed at any time other than during a free spin.
Combat
Warriors can make two kinds of combat actions: ranged combat and close combat. Both types of combat 
actions are described below. 
OVERVIEW
The following rules apply to both ranged and close combat actions. These rules use some terms that are 
explained in the Ranged Combat and Close Combat sections.
Rolling 2 and 12
Whenever you give a ranged or close combat action to a warrior and roll a “2,” you automatically miss the 
target. This is called a critical miss. Your warrior must turn his combat dial clockwise 1 click after the critical 
miss. This represents a weapon backﬁ re or your warrior straining or wounding himself during the action.
If you roll a “12,” then you have automatically hit the target. This is called a critical hit. If you were trying 
to damage the target, then the critical hit delivers 1 extra click of damage. If your attack is against multiple 
ranged combat targets, this 1 extra click of damage will affect all targets hit, for a total of 2 clicks of damage.
If you roll a “12” while you are trying to heal a target, you are automatically successful and deliver 1 extra 
click of healing.
Targeting Friendly Warriors
You cannot target a friendly warrior with a damaging attack. Additionally, a warrior may never target himself 
with any attack or special ability, damaging or healing.
Healing and Other Repairing Abilities
Using the Healing, Magic Healing, Regeneration, Command and Vampirism special abilities, it is possible to 
repair clicks on a ﬁ gure’s combat dial. When repairing, click the combat dial counter-clockwise, but never 
turn past the ﬁ gure’s Starting Position.
Eliminating Warriors
As soon as three skulls are revealed through the stat slot, your warrior is eliminated and removed from the 
battleﬁ eld.
Sequence of an Attack
Use the following sequence of events to make a ranged or close combat attack, regardless of whether or 
not you are using a formation:
1. Give a ranged or close combat action to your attacking warrior (or primary attacker of an attack formation).
2. Declare the target(s) of the attack.
3. Declare a capture attempt, if applicable.
4. Place an action token on each warrior contributing to the attack.
5. The attacking player chooses which of his optional Special Abilities to turn off.
6. The defending player chooses which of his optional Special Abilities to turn off.
7. Roll the attack dice and determine the success of the attack.
8. Calculate damage inﬂ icted and apply the damage to the combat dial(s) of the target(s).

9. Apply effects generated by the damage (e.g., Vampirism).
10. Apply pushing damage to the attacker(s), if applicable.
RANGED COMBAT
Ranged combat represents everything from bow- and gunﬁ re to magical spell attacks. A warrior given a 
ranged combat action is called the ﬁ rer.
Your warrior has a range value printed on his base. This is the maximum number of inches that your warrior’s 
ranged attack can reach. If the range value is greater than 0 and your warrior is not in base contact with 
an opposing ﬁ gure, then you may give your warrior a ranged combat action. Place one end of a string or 
ruler at the center of the ﬁ rer’s base and draw it in a straight line to the center of the target ﬁ gure’s base. 
This is called the line of ﬁ re.
A line of ﬁ re must pass through the ﬁ rer’s front arc, and be no longer than his range value. The line of ﬁ re is 
blocked if it crosses any ﬁ gure base (friendly or opposing) other than the ﬁ rer and the target. If the line of ﬁ re 
is blocked, you may not attack the target ﬁ gure. You may check a potential line of ﬁ re at any time. 
You may not use a ranged combat action to 
attack an opposing ﬁ gure that is in base contact 
with a ﬁ gure friendly to the ﬁ rer.
To resolve a ranged combat action, roll 2 six-
sided dice and add them to your warrior’s attack 
value. If the result is equal to or greater than 
the target ﬁ gure’s defense value, as shown on its 
combat dial, then you have hit and damaged the 
target. Certain special abilities (like Battle Armor) 
and game modiﬁ ers (like a ranged combat forma-
tion) can increase the target’s defense value or the 
attack dice roll.
Damage
When your warrior hits a single target with his ranged combat attack, look at your warrior’s damage 
value. This is the number of clicks of damage you have inﬂ icted on the target. Your opponent must click 
the target’s combat dial clockwise that number of times. Special abilities (such as Magic Enhancement) and 
game modiﬁ ers (such as multiple ranged combat targets) can change the damage inﬂ icted on a target by a 
ranged combat attack.
Ranged Combat against Multiple Targets
Your warrior might be able to affect two or more target ﬁ gures with a single ranged 
combat action. However, you may never target a ﬁ gure more than once during a 
ranged combat action.
All ﬁ gures show one or more arrow symbols beside their range value. The number of 
arrow symbols is the maximum number of different targets your warrior may attack 
with a single ranged combat action. If you are ﬁ ring at more than one target, you must 
be able to draw an unblocked line of ﬁ re to each target. 
Hint: Certain special abilities, such as Flame/Lightning, also allow ranged 
combat to be resolved against multiple ﬁ gures, but you’ll only have to draw a line of ﬁ re to the main 
target of the attack.
Whenever a ranged combat action is used to affect more than a single target, the damage value of the attack 
is reduced to 1. Therefore, ignore your warrior’s normal damage value when you are attempting to affect 
multiple ranged combat targets. Certain game effects can increase this damage.
When your warrior is attempting to affect more than one target with a ranged combat attack, you roll the 
dice only once. The total of the dice plus your warrior’s attack value is compared to every target’s defense 
value. Some targets with low defense values may be affected by the attack, while the same attack might miss 
others with high defense values.
Example: Ian gives a ranged combat action to his Khamsin Gunslinger. The Gunslinger has two arrow 
symbols next to his range value. Ian chooses two opposing ﬁ gures within his warrior’s range value and 
FIGURE BASE
FIGURE BASE
TERRAIN
TERRAIN

front arc. The lines of ﬁ re to the two targets are not blocked and neither target is in base contact with 
any ﬁ gure friendly to Ian. In other words, the targets can be attacked! The attack value of the Gunslinger 
is 7. Ian rolls 2 six-sided dice, for a result of 8. The total attack roll is 15 (7 + 8 = 15). Ian compares 
his 15 to the defense values of the two targets: one is a Mending Priestess with defense value 16, and 
the other is a Leech Medic with defense value 15. The Gunslinger’s attack misses the Priestess, but hits 
the Medic for 1 click of damage.
CLOSE COMBAT
Close combat represents hand-to-hand and melee weapon attacks.
The front arc of your warrior must be in base contact with a target ﬁ gure before you can give your warrior 
a close combat action.
Roll 2 six-sided dice and add them to your warrior’s attack value. If the result is equal to or greater than the 
target’s defense value shown on its combat dial, then you have hit and damaged the target. You add 1 to your 
dice roll if your warrior is in contact with the target’s rear arc. There are other game modiﬁ ers (such as a close 
combat formation or capture attempt) that will increase the attack dice roll or the target’s defense value.
Damage
When your warrior hits a target ﬁ gure with his close combat attack, look at your warrior’s damage value. 
This is the number of clicks of damage you have inﬂ icted on the target. Your opponent must click the target’s 
combat dial clockwise that number of times. Close combat damage can be altered by special abilities (e.g., 
Weapon Master).
Capturing
When you are making a close combat action, you may choose to capture an opposing target ﬁ gure instead 
of damaging it. You must declare a capture attempt before rolling the close combat attack dice. The defense 
value of the target ﬁ gure is increased by 2. If you hit, the attacking warrior captures the target ﬁ gure, but 
does not damage it. A captured ﬁ gure is called a captive. A captive cannot be given an action and all of its 
special abilities are ignored. While a ﬁ gure is a captive, it does not count as a friendly or opposing ﬁ gure to 
any player. Captives are ignored for purposes of breaking away, but a controlling warrior may never voluntarily 
break base contact with his captive.
A warrior may have only one captive under his control. Show this by keeping the two ﬁ gures in base contact at 
all times. No warrior, friendly or opposing, may target a captive for any purpose. A captive never takes damage 
from any source, even from Shockwave and Flame/Lightning attacks.
The captive always moves with its controlling warrior, using the lower of their two speed values. The
controlling warrior gets to use his speed special ability (if any) for both ﬁ gures. The controller always 
determines the captive’s facing and location. The captive’s position and facing may be changed when the 
controlling warrior moves. No player may place a controlling warrior in a location where his captive may not 
then be placed next to him. The controlling warrior may only be given a move or pass action. The controlling 
warrior may not be the target of an opponent’s capture attempt or ranged combat action, though he may be 
attacked by a close combat action normally.
If a warrior with a captive is eliminated, the captured ﬁ gure is no longer a captive and may be given actions 
normally. If such a ﬁ gure is freed while occupying blocking terrain, it is eliminated and the player that held it 
captive receives the victory points for eliminating it.
Formations
An action that you give to one of your warriors can be shared among other friendly ﬁ gures by using 
formations. You may always choose whether or not to use a formation. A formation only exists for the duration 
of an action. Formations have no effect before or after the action, or during other player’s turns. Players are 
free to declare a formation to get more out of an action whenever the proper conditions exist.
RESTRICTIONS
All members of a formation must be from the same faction. Look at the faction symbol on each ﬁ gure’s base to 
determine if the ﬁ gures may be part of the same formation. Mage Spawn ﬁ gures don’t have faction symbols, so 
you can never create a formation using them exclusively; however, see Shyfts, p. 11.

Movement Formations
If 3, 4 or 5 of your warriors are grouped together so that each one is touching the base of at least one other 
warrior, then you can call this group a movement formation. Only a warrior eligible to receive a move action 
may be a member of a movement formation. When you give a move action to just one of these warriors, all of 
the warriors in the movement formation may move as part of that same action. The speed of each ﬁ gure in the 
movement formation is reduced to the speed of its slowest ﬁ gure. Move all ﬁ gures in the formation normally, 
one at a time. The action ends when each member of the formation has moved. During the action, the warriors 
must be moved to positions on the battleﬁ eld so that at the end of the action each member is once again in 
base contact with at least one other warrior from the formation. The formation cannot be split into two or 
more groups at the end of the action. 
Even though only one warrior in the formation is given the move action, each member of the formation is 
marked with an action token and all are considered to have taken an action. Using a movement formation may 
cause some ﬁ gures to be pushed, while others are not. This depends on which ﬁ gures took an action on the 
player’s preceding turn, as shown by their tokens.
If any ﬁ gure in a movement formation fails a breaking away roll, that ﬁ gure may not move, though it can still 
rotate to face a new direction. Other ﬁ gures in the formation can move normally, but at the end of the action, 
each warrior’s base must still be touching the base of another warrior in the formation.
Hint: Movement formations are good because one move action allows you to move several warriors 
instead of just one.
A warrior given a move action to activate a special ability, where the ability states “but do not move him” (e.g., 
Magic Levitation, Necromancy, Regeneration), cannot be a member of a movement formation.
Combat Formations
Warriors can use two kinds of combat formations: ranged combat formations, and close combat formations.
Critical Misses with Formation Attacks
If you roll a “2” during a ranged or close combat formation attack, the attack automatically misses and only 
the primary attacker rotates his base clockwise 1 click.
RANGED COMBAT FORMATIONS
If 3, 4 or 5 of your warriors are grouped together so that each one is touching the base of another, you may 
declare a ranged combat formation. Only a warrior eligible to receive a ranged combat action may be a 
member of a ranged combat formation. When you give a ranged combat action to just one of these warriors, 
all of the warriors in the formation contribute to the attack. Ranged combat formations can only be used when 
the attack is only going to affect a single target ﬁ gure, and the intent is to damage (not heal) it.
Each member of the ranged combat formation must be able to draw a line of ﬁ re to the target ﬁ gure. The 
target must be within the range value of each of the formation members. The warrior to whom you give the 
ranged combat action is called the primary attacker. To resolve the attack, you use the primary attacker’s 
attack value and damage value. Each additional warrior in the ranged combat formation adds +2 to the attack 
dice roll. There is no damage bonus.
T
hi
r
d
 
M
o
v
e
: 
”
First 
Move: 
5”
Second M
ove: 6”
Fourt
h Mo
ve: 
 4”

Even though only one warrior in the formation is given the ranged combat action, each member of the 
formation is marked with an action token and all are considered to have taken an action. Using a ranged 
combat formation may cause some ﬁ gures to be pushed, while others are not. This depends on which ﬁ gures 
took an action on the player’s preceding turn, as shown by their tokens.
Hint: These formations are good because they allow you to hit targets with very high defense values.
CLOSE COMBAT FORMATIONS
If 2 or 3 of your warriors have their front arcs in base contact with the same opposing ﬁ gure, you may declare 
a close combat formation against that ﬁ gure. Only a warrior eligible to receive a close combat action may be 
a member of a close combat formation. Your own warriors do not have to be in base contact with one another. 
When you give a close combat action to just one of your warriors, all of the warriors in the close combat 
formation contribute to the attack. Close combat formations can only be used when the attack is only going to 
affect a single target ﬁ gure, and the intent is to damage (not heal) it. 
The warrior to whom you give the close combat action is called the primary attacker. To resolve the attack, 
you use the primary attacker’s attack value and damage value. Each additional ﬁ gure in the close combat 
formation adds +1 to the attack dice roll. If at least one warrior in the formation is in contact with the target’s 
rear arc, there is a single, additional +1 bonus to the roll. There is no damage bonus.
Even though only one warrior in the formation is given the close combat action, each member of the formation 
is marked with an action token and all are considered to have taken an action. Using a close combat formation 
may cause some ﬁ gures to be pushed, while others are not. This depends on which ﬁ gures took an action on 
the preceding turn, as shown by their tokens.
If a close combat formation makes a successful capturing attempt, the primary attacker is the controlling 
warrior.
Hint: These formations are good because they help overcome the difﬁ culty of capturing a target.
Shyfts
All warriors with the Shyft faction symbol have the ability to form formations with Mage Spawn ﬁ gures.
Shyft and Mage Spawn warriors may be part of the same movement, close combat, or ranged combat 
formation when two conditions are met. When the formation is declared, each Mage Spawn ﬁ gure in the 
formation must be in base contact with at least one Shyft ﬁ gure in the formation. When the formation’s action 
is completed, each Mage Spawn ﬁ gure must be in base contact with at least one Shyft ﬁ gure that started the 
action as a member of that formation.
Otherwise, all other formation rules are in effect. Note that in a mixed Shyft/Mage Spawn close combat 
formation, each Mage Spawn ﬁ gure must be in base contact with a Shyft ﬁ gure in that formation.
Three warriors from the Elemental 
League form a ranged combat for-
mation. Lines of ﬁ re are drawn; all 
are clear and within the range values 
of each ﬁ gure. The Ranger is chosen 
as the primary attacker. Add +4 to 
the attack dice roll for the two extra 
warriors in the formation.
These two Orc Raiders form a close combat forma-
tion to attack the Werewolf. The Crusher is chosen 
as the primary attacker. Add +1 to the roll for the 
extra warrior in the formation, and add another +1 
because a member of the formation is in contact with 
the target’s rear arc. So, the attack roll is modiﬁ ed 
by +2.
RANGER
RANGER
MENDING
PRIESTESS
STEAM GOLEM
Line of ﬁ re: 5” and clear.
Line of ﬁ re: 5” and clear.
Line of ﬁ re: 6” and clear.
Target Figure
CRUSHER
CRUSHER
Target Figure
WEREWOLF

Terrain
You do not have to use terrain when you ﬁ ght a Mage Knight battle, but adding terrain to your tabletop will 
make your game more challenging and interesting.
There are three main types of terrain in Mage Knight: clear, hindering and blocking. These terrain types can 
exist at tabletop (ground) level, or they can be elevated. In addition, there are several types of special terrain 
described at the end of this section.
CLEAR TERRAIN
Clear terrain represents anything from a grassy plain to a city square. The entire battleﬁ eld consists of clear 
terrain, except in those areas where hindering, blocking or special terrain items are placed. You may not place 
non-elevated clear terrain in the terrain pool when setting the scene.
HINDERING TERRAIN
Hindering terrain consists of brush, light woods, debris and other, 
similar terrain. You can represent such terrain using shapes cut out 
of construction paper or cloth. The outer edges of these shapes 
represent the boundaries of the hindering terrain. Hindering ter-
rain should lie ﬂ at on the table so that it does not interfere with 
the placement of a warrior’s base. You can place scale models of 
bushes and small trees on top of your hindering terrain shapes for 
visual effect. During the game, you can reposition these models 
within the boundary of the terrain, since they have no effect on 
the play of the game.
Your warriors can move into and through hindering terrain, but 
there are restrictions. If your warrior begins a move with any part of his base touching clear terrain, his 
movement must end immediately when his base crosses completely into a hindering terrain feature. He does 
not have to stop if his base does not cross completely into hindering terrain. If your warrior begins a move 
with any part of his base touching hindering terrain, his speed value is cut in half for the turn (round up to the 
nearest whole inch), even if he begins his movement by leaving the hindering terrain. This reduction is made 
after all other adjustments to the ﬁ gure’s speed value.
If a line of ﬁ re passes through any amount of hindering terrain and/or any number of hindering terrain features, 
add 1 to the target’s defense value. This is called the hindering terrain modiﬁ er. Close combat attacks are 
not affected by hindering terrain.
A ﬁ rer whose center dot is in hindering terrain is not penalized by the modiﬁ er if his front arc lies entirely 
outside of the hindering terrain boundary and the line of ﬁ re does not pass into or through any other hindering 
terrain features. This represents your warrior’s ability to ﬁ re from the edge of hindering terrain: protected 
by it, but not penalized by it.
When using a ranged combat formation, only the primary attacker’s line of ﬁ re is subject to the hindering 
terrain modiﬁ er.
BLOCKING TERRAIN
Some examples of blocking terrain include large boulders, high walls 
and buildings. You can represent blocking terrain using common items 
like decks of cards and small cartons, or you can use scale models.
Figures cannot move into or through blocking terrain. Also, blocking 
terrain blocks any line of ﬁ re crossing it.
ELEVATED TERRAIN TYPES
Clear, hindering and blocking terrain may be elevated above the ground 
level battleﬁ eld to form hills and low plateaus. All elevated terrain is 
assumed to represent the same level of height above the battleﬁ eld.
You can represent elevated terrain types with stacks of books and magazines, or use scale models. If you are 
using models for hills, use models with a distinct elevation change and ﬂ at upper surface.
This is one way to represent hindering woods.
This building represents blocking terrain. 
Warriors cannot move into it, and lines of 
ﬁ re cannot be drawn through it.

All ﬁ gures must stop as soon as they move up into elevated clear or hindering terrain, or down out of it. 
When measuring your move, don’t measure any vertical distance traveled, just the horizontal portion of your 
warrior’s move along the tabletop or elevated terrain type.
Elevated terrain blocks line of ﬁ re unless the ﬁ rer or target or 
both are on elevated terrain. 
If both the ﬁ rer and target are on elevated clear terrain, nothing 
affects the line of ﬁ re except elevated hindering and blocking 
terrain and the bases of other elevated ﬁ gures.
If the ﬁ rer or target is on elevated terrain, but the other is not, 
the line of ﬁ re is blocked if it crosses a different elevated terrain 
feature. Intervening blocking terrain also blocks the line of ﬁ re, 
whether elevated or not. Intervening bases of elevated ﬁ gures 
will also block these lines of ﬁ re, but those off of elevated terrain 
can be ignored. Hindering terrain modiﬁ es the attack only if 
either the ﬁ rer or target is in hindering terrain, or the hindering 
terrain is elevated; otherwise it can be ignored.
Height Advantage
When a ﬁ rer who is not on elevated terrain makes a ranged combat attack against an elevated target, the 
target’s defense value is increased by +1. This is called the height advantage modiﬁ er. A target ﬁ gure might 
gain the beneﬁ t of the height advantage modiﬁ er and the hindering terrain modiﬁ er at the same time. This 
would increase its defense value by +2.
When using a ranged combat formation, only the primary attacker’s line of ﬁ re is subject to the height 
advantage modiﬁ er and hindering terrain modiﬁ er.
Close combat attacks are allowed between ﬁ gures at different elevations. Also, members of a formation may 
occupy different elevations. Since base contact is a condition for both close combat and formations, look down 
from overhead to determine whether base contact would be possible if the elevation difference wasn’t there. 
If so, then base contact is assumed.
If the target of a close combat attack is elevated, while the attacking warrior/primary attacker is not, the target 
gets the height advantage modiﬁ er.
SPECIAL TERRAIN
Shallow Water
Shallow water features, like streams, fords and ponds, are treated as hindering terrain for movement, but have 
no effect on ranged combat actions.
Deep Water
Deep water features, like rivers and lakes, are treated as blocking terrain for movement, but have no effect 
on ranged combat actions.
Low Walls
Low walls are a special type of hindering terrain. Movement stops when your warrior reaches the far side of 
a low wall, and speed is never halved on subsequent turns when your warrior moves away from a low wall. 
Ranged combat attacks receive the hindering terrain modiﬁ er for crossing the low wall, except if the ﬁ rer is 
in base contact with the low wall. Close combat attacks are allowed between adjacent ﬁ gures on opposite sides 
of a low wall as if they were in base contact.
Abrupt Elevated Terrain
Raised parapets, ﬂ at rooftops and plateaus ﬂ anked by cliffs are examples of abrupt elevated terrain. Abrupt 
elevated terrain is treated like normal elevated terrain except that close combat attacks are not allowed 
between ﬁ gures on and off such a feature. Also, formations may not exist if some members are on and some 
are off such terrain. Figures may only move onto or off of such terrain at an access point such as a stairwell or 
ladder, or if they have the Flight special ability. Every abrupt elevated terrain item must have at least one access 
point designated when it is placed in the terrain pool. The path of non-Flight movement must be measured 
to and from such access points.
This line of ﬁ re passes through hindering terrain 
and a ﬁ gure base, but because the ﬁ rer is ele-
vated, the intervening features can be ignored.

Ending the Game
The game ends when any of these things happen:
1. Only one player still has a warrior on the battleﬁ eld. Captives, and ﬁ gures with the Demoralized special 
ability showing, do not count for this purpose; OR
2. A predetermined time limit for the game is reached; OR
3. All remaining players agree to end the game.
Victory!
At the end of the game, all players tally their victory points. Whoever scores the most victory points wins the 
game. Here is how you score victory points. 
Every opposing ﬁ gure that you eliminate during the game is worth a number of victory points equal to its point 
value. These points are scored during the game as soon as a ﬁ gure is eliminated. Every opposing ﬁ gure that 
you are holding captive within your starting area at the end of the game is worth a number of victory points 
equal to double its point value. No points are scored for captives held outside your starting area.
Every non-captured friendly ﬁ gure that started the game on the battleﬁ eld, never left it, and remains at the 
end of the game, is worth a number of victory points equal to its point value. However, if all your ﬁ gures are 
captured and/or demoralized, add no points.
To summarize, your victory point total = (eliminated opposing ﬁ gure points) + (captured opposing ﬁ gure 
points x 2, but only if they are in your starting area) + (friendly non-captured ﬁ gure points that have survived 
the entire game, but not if all your ﬁ gures are captured and/or demoralized).
Hint: The victory points scored for eliminating ﬁ gures are scored during the game. Points for captives 
and surviving warriors are scored at the end of the game. This means that you can score victory points 
for eliminating a ﬁ gure several times if it is repeatedly brought back into play by the Necromancy 
special ability and you keep eliminating it.
If the victory point totals of two or more players tie, the winner is the player who built his army with the 
fewest points.
After the game, all players retrieve their eliminated and captured ﬁ gures.
Withdrawing
During your turn, before the game ends, you may leave the battleﬁ eld. This is called withdrawing. 
If you withdraw, your opponents retain the victory points they have earned for any ﬁ gures of yours they have 
eliminated so far in the game. Also, if any of your warriors are captives when you withdraw, you immediately 
forfeit their point value to the controlling player as if they had been eliminated as well. You remove all your 
warriors from the table, and you retrieve all of your eliminated warriors. Opposing ﬁ gures you captured remain 
on the battleﬁ eld and may now be controlled normally by their owners. You score no points for friendly 
non-captured ﬁ gures.
The Standard Game
There are many ways you can play Mage Knight, and lots of decisions you will have to make before the game 
starts. What build total will you use? What sort of terrain will you use? Will you set a time limit for play?
In an organized play environment, there is no need to spend time resolving these questions. Here are the 
guidelines for the Mage Knight standard game.
1. The playing surface is 3 foot x 3 foot square.
2. Each army has a build total of 200 points, giving 2 actions to each player at the beginning of every turn.
3. The time limit for the game is 50 minutes.
4. When setting the scene, each player contributes 4 standard terrain items to the terrain pool. Standard terrain 
templates are available as free downloads from www.mageknight.com.
5. Do not use elevated terrain types.
6. Follow the game’s etiquette and have fun!

Mage Knight Etiquette
Miniatures games lack the restricted environments of board games and card games. This is good, because 
you can use your imagination to develop all sorts of unique scenarios and terrain ideas. The butter dish is a 
sacred stone alter. The key chain in the center of the table is a treasure chest, and the ﬁ rst warrior to drag it 
back to his table edge is the winner!
On the other hand, situations may arise which are not covered by these rules. While we have attempted to 
write very explicit rules, players may eventually run into a disagreement over who can do what. We suggest 
the following points of etiquette.
1. Players should never spin the combat dials of any ﬁ gure on the table unless it takes clicks of damage or 
healing. Then, players should only click the dials the required number of times in the proper direction. In other 
words, don’t click through a combat dial just to see what’s coming up.
2. You will constantly pick up your warriors during a game to adjust their combat dials. Mark the locations and 
facings of your warriors with markers on the table whenever you do this.
3. Because weapons, arms and other bits of ﬁ gures stick out from their bases, it is sometimes difﬁ cult to get a 
clean base contact between two ﬁ gures. If you cannot get two ﬁ gure bases to touch, agree among yourselves 
that the two ﬁ gures are in base contact until one of them moves away.
4. Ambiguous situations will arise. For example, a line of ﬁ re might or might not be nicking a blocking ﬁ gure 
base. There might or might not be enough room between two ﬁ gures to allow a third to stand between them. 
Players will reasonably disagree in situations like these. In all such instances, roll one die. On a 1, 2 or 3, the 
action is not allowed. On a 4, 5 or 6, the action is allowed. 
Glossary
Access Point: The area where a warrior may move 
onto or off of a piece of abrupt elevated terrain.
Action: There are four actions: move, ranged 
combat, close combat and pass. You get a certain 
number of actions at the beginning of every turn, 
which you then give to your warriors during the turn.
Action Token: A coin or bead used to mark a ﬁ gure 
that has taken an action.
Army: A group of warriors you control during the 
game.
Atlantis Guild: Humans who control magic-pow-
ered technology.
Attack: The act of rolling dice and adding an 
attack value, then comparing the total to a defender’s 
defense value.
Base: The plastic disc to which a warrior is glued.
Base Contact: A ﬁ gure’s base is touching the base of 
another ﬁ gure, or a terrain feature.
Black Powder Rebels: Humans, Dwarves and Ama-
zons who exploit gunpowder technology.
Breaking Away: Attempting to move a ﬁ gure that is 
in base contact with an opponent.
Build Total: When you are building your army, the 
total of your warriors’ point values cannot exceed 
this limit. 
Building Your Army: Choosing warriors whose 
point values do not exceed your allowed build total.
Captive: A captured ﬁ gure.
Capturing: Using a close combat action to turn a 
ﬁ gure into a captive instead of damaging it.
Click of Damage: A clockwise spin of the combat 
dial for 1 click.
Click of Healing: A counter-clockwise spin of the 
combat dial for 1 click.
Close Combat: A melee or hand-to-hand attack.
Close Combat Formation: Two or three friendly 
warriors using a single close combat action to attack 
a target ﬁ gure.
Combat Dial: The rotating disc under a ﬁ gure’s 
base.
Critical Hit: An attack roll of “12.”
Critical Miss: An attack roll of “2.”
Draconum: Powerful Human/Drake hybrids.
Elemental League: Elf and Troll heroes who wield 
life-magic.
Figure: A Mage Knight piece.
Firer: A warrior given a ranged combat action.
First Player: This player places terrain ﬁ rst, sets up 
his warriors ﬁ rst and takes the ﬁ rst turn of the game.
Free Spin: Rotating a ﬁ gure so that its front arc 
touches an opposing ﬁ gure that moved into base 
contact.
Friendly Figure: A warrior you control or one that 
is controlled by an ally.
Height Advantage Modiﬁ er: If an attack originates 

on non-elevated terrain against a target on elevated 
terrain, add +1 to the target’s defense value.
Hindering Terrain Modiﬁ er: If a line of ﬁ re passes 
through any hindering terrain, add +1 to the target’s 
defense value.
Knights Immortal: Martial Elves who have shunned 
the major factions.
Line of Fire: A line drawn from the center of a 
ﬁ rer’s base to the center of a target’s base.
Mage Spawn: Supernatural and beastly creatures 
summoned or created by powerful magicians.
Modiﬁ er: A bonus added to a warrior’s defense 
value or an attack dice roll.
Mounted Warrior: A warrior mounted on a double 
base and whose speed value is denoted with a horse-
shoe symbol.
Move Action: An action that allows you to move a 
ﬁ gure.
Moved: A warrior is moved when its center dot 
changes position at any time, or its facing is changed 
during the owning player’s turn.
Movement Formation: Three, four or ﬁ ve friendly 
warriors who all move with just one move action.
Necropolis Sect: Dark-elves and Vampires who use 
death-magic.
Opposing Figure: A warrior controlled by an oppo-
nent.
Orc Raiders: Brutish, mountain-dwelling ﬁ ghters.
Pass: An action in which a warrior does nothing.
Primary Attacker: The warrior that leads a ranged 
or close combat formation.
Pushing: Giving a warrior an action on two consecu-
tive turns.
Ranged Combat: An attack that uses missile weap-
ons, magic or mind power.
Ranged Combat Formation: Three, four or ﬁ ve 
friendly warriors who use one ranged combat action 
to attack a single target ﬁ gure.
Setting the Scene: Creating the game battleﬁ eld.
Shake Off: One click of damage caused by a 
mounted warrior who successfully breaks away from 
an opposing ﬁ gure.
Starting Area: A rectangular section along your 
edge of the battleﬁ eld where your warriors start the 
game.
Token: A marker, like a penny or spare die.
Turn: The period in the game used by one player to 
give his actions to his warriors.
Unique: A ﬁ gure without rank stars. You may only 
have one of each unique ﬁ gure in any army.
Victory Points: The points you add up at the end of 
the game to see who wins.
Warrior: A Mage Knight piece.
Withdrawing: Leaving a game before it is over.
Combat Dial System, Mage Knight High 
Concept, Universe and Creative Direction: 
Jordan Weisman
Mage Knight Rules, Warriors and Stats: 
Kevin Barrett
Development and Editorial Contributions:
Matt Robinson and Ian Redditt
Editing:
Sharon Turner Mulvihill
Playtesting:
Jim Long, Derek Levesque, Brian Hill, Mike 
Ferneyhough, Rich Hilmer, Gus Schultz, Curtis 
Malone and Chris Luhowy
Concept Art by:
Alex Garner and Carlos D’Anda for
Idea + Design Works, LLC
WizKids Sculpting Directors:
Jeff Grace, Steve Saunders
WizKids Sculpting Staff:
Dave Summers, James Carter, Brady Bugge, Jeff 
Wilhelm, Tim Prow, Elizabeth Dunlap 
Other Sculpting by:
Jon Mathews, Shawn Knapp, Derek Miller,
Blue Radish Studios, MystroMenace Studios, 
Howard Kalish Studios, Bob Naismith, John 
Winter; Tony Simione and Chris Borman
coordinated by Jay Borman.
WizKids Art Director:
Dawne Weisman
WizKids Senior Designer:
Sandra Garavito
WizKids Graphic Design Group: 
Kevin Perrine, Chris Steely,
Tina Wegner, Ethan Pasternack
WizKids Production Management:
Sharon Turner Mulvihill
CreditS
Copyright 2002 WizKids, LLC. Mage Knight Unlimited and the circle MK logo are trademarks of WizKids, LLC.