GAME CONCEPT
Magic Maze is a real-time, co-operative game. Each player can control any of 
the 4 Hero pawns whenever he wants in order to make that hero perform a very 
specific action, to which other players do not have access: move north, explore a 
new area, ride an escalator… all of this requires rigorous co-operation between 
the players in order to succeed at moving the heroes wisely, and complete your 
mission before the sand timer runs out.
Moreover, you will only be allowed to communicate for short periods during 
the game. The rest of the time, you must play without giving any visual or audio 
cues to each other.
GOAL OF THE GAME
All of the players win the game if all of the Hero pawns succeed in leaving the 
shopping mall in the limited time allotted for the game, each having stolen an item.
You have 3 minutes at the start of the game. Sand Timer spaces you encounter 
along the way will give you more time. If the sand timer ever completely runs out 
before the Hero pawns escape, all of the players lose the game: your loitering 
has aroused suspicion, and the mall security guards nab you!
GAMEPLAY
A game of Magic Maze follows this gameplay sequence:
1.	 Explore the shopping mall, partially or completely.
2.	 Move each Hero pawn onto the Item space of that hero’s colour.
3.	 When all four Hero pawns are 
simultaneously on their respective Item 
spaces, they steal the items, the alarm is 
triggered, and the four Hero pawns must 
quickly reach the exit without being caught 
(i.e. without the sand timer running out). 
At this moment, flip the Theft tile B-side-up.
4.	 When a Hero pawn reaches an Exit space he can use, remove that Hero 
pawn from the board. Once all four Hero pawns have left the board, you 
have achieved victory! However, if the sand timer runs out at any moment 
during the game, you have met defeat!
A
fter being stripped of all their possessions, 
a mage, a barbarian, an elf, and a dwarf are 
forced to go rob the local Magic Maze shop-
ping mall for all the necessary equipment they need 
for their next adventure. They agree to pull off their 
heists simultaneously, then dash to the exits in order to 
evade the guards who eyed their arrival suspiciously.
In order to make this game accessible to people with altered 
colour perception, each colour is associated with a symbol. 
In this rulebook, whenever a colour is mentioned, it can be identified 
by the  orresponding symbol.
Hero Barbarian
Colour yellow
Symbol sword
Hero Dwarf
Colour orange
Symbol axe
Hero Elf
Colour green
Symbol bow
Hero Mage
Colour purple
Symbol vial
Kasper Lapp: “From an early age, I had 
a passion for developing my own board 
games, but since the future seemed to 
be digital, I went into the computer 
game industry instead. Then, a couple 
of years ago, I stumbled upon a com-
munity of aspiring board game designers, and I realized that board games were 
far from dying. Since then, I haven’t been able to stop developing. Magic Maze is 
my first published board game, but hopefully not my last!”
The author would like to thank all the people who helped him test the 
game. He especially thanks Mikkel Balslev, Lars Hoffmann, Laetitia Di Sciascio, 
and Didier Delhez for bringing key ideas.
Sit Down! rue de Labie 39, 5310 Leuze, Belgium
info@sitdown-games.com  www.sitdown-games.com
A game from Sit Down! published by Megalopole. ©Megalopole (2017). 
All rights reserved. • This game can only be used for private recreational 
purposes. • WARNING: not suitable for children under 3 years of age. This 
game contains small parts which can be ingested or inhaled. Retain this information. • 
Visuals are non-binding. Shapes and colours may change. • Any reproduction of this 
game, in whole or in part, in any medium, physical or electronic, is strictly forbidden 
without written permission from Megalopole.
Kasper Lapp DESIGNER
Gyom ARTIST
Marie Ooms GRAPHIC DESIGNER
Didier Delhez PROJECT MANAGER
Nathan Morse TRANSLATOR

COMPONENTS
24 Mall tiles
4 Hero pawns in different colours
12 Out of Order tokens
9 Action tiles for 2- to 8-player games, 
and 7 Action tiles for 1-player games
1 3-minute sand timer
1 “Do Something!” pawn
1 Score-sheet The Great Book of Challenges 
(also available on our website, in case you need a new sheet)
1 Theft tile
1 sheet of stickers to stick on the Hero pawns (if you wish) 
which allows people with altered colour perception to recognise them. 
The two 
 stickers are not used until Scenario 3 (see page 7).
The setup of the tiles is identical to the multiplayer version. Take 
the 7 Action tiles for 1-player games (number in the lower-right cor-
ner), make sure their North arrow is pointing in the same direction 
as the arrow on the starting tile, shuffle them, and place them as a 
­face-down deck.
Once you flip the sand timer, the game begins. Using only one 
hand, you must reveal the Action tiles one by one onto a discard pile 
until the action you wish to use is visible on top of the discard pile. You 
can then use that one action with any number of the Hero pawns, and 
as many times as you wish. You cannot hold the deck in your hand!
To perform another action, you must continue to reveal and discard 
the other Action tiles from the deck until the action you want comes 
up. If you empty the deck, flip the discard pile face down (without 
shuffling it) and start revealing tiles again, one by one, looking for 
the action you want.
Whenever you flip the sand timer (see “Time Restriction” page 6), you must 
shuffle the deck and discard pile together to form a new deck.
SETUP
Follow the instructions for the scenario you choose to play, which will tell you 
how to set up the Mall tile deck 
, usually face down; start with Scenarios 1 – 7 
(initiation campaign), then continue with Scenarios 8 – 17. After that, feel free 
to come up with your own scenarios!
Place the starting tile (Tile 1) 
 in the middle of the table (A-side-up if you 
are new to the game; otherwise, however you like), and randomly place the 
4 Hero pawns on the 4 central spaces 
. Set aside the Theft tile 
 (A-side-up) 
as well as the Out of Order tokens 
.
Take the Action tiles corresponding to the number of players (number in the 
lower-right corner) and give one to each player 
.
Place your Action card in front of you so everyone can see it, with its North 
arrow pointing in the same direction 
 as the one on the starting tile. Make 
sure the Action tiles stay in the same direction as the starting tile throughout 
the entire game!
You can chat, plot, and scheme as much as you want during the setup, but as 
soon as the sand timer is turned over, you have begun your heist, and silence 
and subtlety are required: you cannot communicate in any way whatsoever!
TIP
Are there too many of you to fit around your table? Not everyone can 
reach the pawns? No worries! Get rid of the chairs and play standing up! 
When everyone is supposed to pass their Action tile to the left (see page 7, 
Scenario 3), everyone can simply step to the left instead.
SOLO GAME
  4-player setup.

USE A VORTEX
The player with the Use a Vortex action (and only this player) can move any Hero 
pawn from wherever it is to any Vortex space of its colour. This is a very quick 
way to travel long distances.
IMPORTANT
Once the theft has occurred, the Vortex system will be automatically 
shut down; this means that the Use a Vortex action cannot be used 
during your escape!
TAKE THE ESCALATOR
The player with the Take the Escalator action 
(and only this player) can move a Hero pawn 
from one side of an escalator to the other, no 
matter which way the escalator is oriented. 
A Hero pawn can never stop on an escalator.
MOVE
The Move action allows you to move a Hero pawn as many spaces as you want 
in the direction indicated by the arrow. The Hero pawn's movement must end 
before it hits an obstacle (wall, another hero, etc.). There can never be two Hero 
pawns on the same space.
In this example, moving the orange Hero pawn to the orange Exploration space 
requires three actions:
➤Brian, who has the NORTH arrow, moves the hero 2 spaces north.
➤Alice, who has the WEST arrow, moves the hero 2 spaces west.
➤Finally, Marc, who has the SOUTH arrow, moves the hero 1 space south, 
onto the orange Exploration space.
With 5 players or more, several players will have access to the same 
Move action.
During the game, you can perform the action(s) depicted on your own Action tile at any time, and as often as you wish; 
however, you cannot perform any actions that are not on your Action tile.
In this game, there are no “turns”: you act whenever you notice that one of your actions may be useful. 
You are never allowed to stop another player’s movement: that player must decide when it is the appropriate time to stop.
Each action is described in detail below…
ION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION

SPECIAL CASES
After placing a new tile 5 at A, one of its Exploration spaces may be 
connected to an Exploration space of a tile that was already in place B. 
The passage created that way is valid, and can be used by all the Hero 
pawns, in both directions.
Following the placement of a new tile, it is also possible that one of its 
Exploration spaces connects to a wall of an existing tile C. Of course, it is a 
dead end.
Note: the layout of the Exploration spaces and white arrows makes it impossible 
for two Mall tiles to overlap.
The player with the Explore action has the responsibility of adding new tiles to the 
board. He/She can only do this when a Hero pawn is standing on an ­Exploration 
space of its own colour that leads to an unexplored area.
  The four types of Exploration spaces.
➤First Brian, who has the NORTH arrow, 
moves the orange Hero pawn north;
➤Then Chris, who has the EAST arrow, 
moves the orange Hero pawn east, 
onto the orange Exploration space;
➤Finally, Anne, who has the magnifying 
glass, can reveal the next tile. 
Once a Hero pawn is on an Exploration space of its 
colour, the player with the Explore action reveals 
the top tile from the deck, and places it so the 
white arrow continues from the Exploration 
space used.
Once a passage has been explored, any Hero pawn can move through it, in either 
direction, regardless of their colour.
N TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION TILES    THE ACTION T
EXPLORE
STEALING IS NOT AN ACTION!
The theft occurs automatically when 
all four Hero pawns are simultaneously 
standing on the Object spaces corre-
sponding to their respective colours (i.e. ­yellow on yellow, etc.).
To visually signal that the theft has occurred, flip the 
Theft tile B-side-up. Now you have to escape to the exit... 
without the help of the Vortex system, which has been 
deactivated (flip the Action tile with the Use a Vortex 
action on it)!

This initiation campaign consists of seven scenarios that will gradually introduce 
you to the basic rules of the game. When you fail a scenario, you can either try 
again or skip to the next one.
SCENARIO 1 ◆ Discovery  Ignore the Loud-Speaker symbols.
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 9, and place tile 1 A-side-up.
Explore the shopping mall, steal the items, then flee through 
the only exit (purple). Once a Hero pawn has fled through the 
exit, place that Hero pawn at the right place on the Theft tile.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION
If you wish, for this introductory scenario, you are allowed to talk as much 
as you want, throughout the entire game. This may help you understand 
the game concepts.
REMEMBER THE ESSENTIALS
Here are some important rules to keep in mind before starting the game:
Players do not “take turns” and you do not “play” or discard the Action 
tiles when you use their effects. You just perform the action(s) that 
your Action tile allows you to do, as many times as you wish, at the 
moments that you deem appropriate.
In order to explore a passage to an unexplored tile, a Hero pawn must 
be on an Exploration space of its own colour. After the passage has 
been explored, any hero can pass through in both ways.
Hero pawns can neither pass through walls nor other heroes. There can 
never be two Hero pawns on the same space.
The Use a Vortex action allows you to move the Hero pawns from 
anywhere to any Vortex space of that hero’s colour.
When all four Hero pawns are standing on the Item spaces of their 
respective colours, turn the Theft tile over and run for the exit!
You are not allowed to use the Vortex system during your escape (after 
having stolen the items)!
The plan is simple: explore, steal the four items, run to the exit!
SCENARIO 2 ◆ Several exits  Ignore the Loud-Speaker symbols.
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 12, and place tile 1 A-side-up.
Each Hero pawn must escape through the exit of its own colour.
TIME RESTRICTION
If the sand timer runs out, you have lost the game! But each time a Hero pawn is 
moved onto an available Sand Timer space, you must immediately flip the sand 
timer, regardless of whether that gets you more or less time. Important: do not 
use a regular timer instead of a sand timer; the result is not the same!
 
The Hero pawn can be moved onto the Sand 
Timer space to flip the sand timer. 
Each Sand Timer space can only be used once, after which you must 
place an Out of Order token on it, beneath the Hero pawn standing 
on it. For your information, there are four Sand Timer spaces in the 
shopping mall.
COMMUNICATION RESTRICTION
During most of the game, you cannot communicate. You are not allowed to speak, 
point at something, make signs or signals, or make sounds. The only permitted 
forms of communication allowed are as follows:
Staring intensely at another player.
Taking the “Do Something!” pawn and placing it in front 
of a player to tell this player that it is time to, well, 
do something! But this player might not agree, and may 
immediately place the pawn in front of another player.
Each time the sand timer is flipped over, the players are allowed to speak for as 
long as they wish while the sand continues to flow. No actions can be performed 
during this discussion time.
As soon as any player performs any action, all communication must cease again!
REMARKS
If a player has just completed a regrettable action, but did not break the 
rules of the game (for example, he has moved a Hero pawn too far north), 
only the player with the appropriate action can fix this error (the player with 
the South arrow in this example).
If you notice that a player has infringed upon the rules of the game, you 
are allowed to point this out verbally. Return the game components to the 
situation before the mistake was made, but the timer is running the whole 
time; you do not get back the lost time of the mistake, the explanation, or 
the fix, so fix it quickly!
TIATION CAMPAIGN    INITIATION CAMPAIGN 

➤Alice, who has the WEST arrow, 
moves The Mage (purple) onto the 
Crystal Ball space A.
➤Anne, who has the Explore action, understands that 
she can add two tiles to the mall “for free”: she draws and places tile 
5 B, then draws again and connects tile 9 directly to tile 5 C (she could have 
placed tile 9 somewhere else if she had wished to).
If a Hero pawn other than the purple one moves onto a Crystal Ball space, 
­nothing happens.
SCENARIO 6 ◆ Barbarian special ability
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 17, place tile 1 B-side-up, 
In this scenario, there are 2 Security Cameras in the deck of Mall tiles.
All the spaces on a tile that contains a Security Camera are yellow, in order 
to make them easier to spot.
If two or more Security Camera are functional (re-
vealed and not covered by an Out of Order token), 
you are not allowed to move any Hero pawn onto any Sand Timer space. To 
disable a Security Camera, the Barbarian (yellow Hero pawn) must move onto 
it. Then, place an Out of Order token onto it, beneath The Barbarian.
This means that once the first camera is revealed, you must be careful: if other 
cameras are revealed before you disable the first camera, you will be unable to 
flip the sand timer until you disable all but one of the cameras!
If a Hero pawn other than the yellow one moves onto a Security Camera 
space, nothing happens.
SCENARIO 7 ◆ Maximum Surveillance
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 19, place tile 1 B-side-up, 
This scenario doesn't add any new rules, but there are now 4 Security Camera 
spaces in the deck of Mall tiles. You must be extra, extra careful once a Security 
Camera space appears!
YOU NOW KNOW ALL THE RULES OF MAGIC MAZE. 
IT IS TIME FOR YOU TO FACE 
THE CHALLENGES ON THE NEXT PAGE!
SCENARIO 3 ◆ Pass your Action tile    Ignore the Loud-Speaker symbols.
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 12, place tile 1 A-side-up, 
and follow the previous permanent rule.
NEW PERMANENT RULE  2 players or more
Every time the sand timer is flipped, the players pass their Action 
tile to the player on their left. Make sure the North arrow on the Action 
tiles stays oriented in the same direction as the one on the starting tile.
Stick the 
 stickers on both ends of the sand timer as a reminder.
SCENARIO 4 ◆ Dwarf & Elf special abilities
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 14, place tile 1 A-side-up, 
The Dwarf (orange Hero pawn) is the only one who is able 
to move through the small passages in the orange walls.
When you use The Elf (green Hero pawn) to explore 
a new tile, all players are allowed to communicate, fol-
lowing the same rules as when the sand timer is flipped. 
The LoudSpeaker symbol is there to remind you.
SCENARIO 5 ◆ Mage special ability
Shuffle Mall tiles 2 – 14, place tile 15 on top of them, place tile 1 B-side-up, 
When The Mage (purple Hero pawn) is standing on a Crystal Ball 
space, the player who has the Explore action may add up to two new 
tiles to the mall, at valid positions (connected to unused Exploration spaces, 
but of any colour); you are allowed to connect the second tile to the first 
one placed this way. That exploration does not need to take place imme-
diately, it can be done later, provided that The Mage is still on the Crystal 
Ball space. Once the Crystal Ball space has been used (if one or two tiles 
have been added to the mall that way), place an Out of Order token on it, 
beneath the Mage pawn.
   INITIATION CAMPAIGN    INITIATION CAMPAIGN    INITIATION CAMPAIGN

SCENARIOS
Now that you know all the rules of Magic Maze, you are ready to face challenges 
worthy of your abilities! Here is a series of scenarios at different difficulty levels. 
Each of them appears on the score sheet (The Great Book of Challenges) on its 
own line with a series of increasingly difficult levels (involving more and more 
Mall tiles). Fill out that sheet as you play, by writing the names of the people, 
who successfully took the challenge, in the corresponding scenario box. A small 
box on the right of each also allows you to record the number of Sand Timer 
spaces you used (the fewer the better!). You are free to choose for each scenario 
whether to use the A or B side of the starting tile (tile 1). The back of the score 
sheet contains blank title boxes so you can create your own scenarios (share 
them with us!) or add those that you find on our website.
SCENARIO 8 ◆ Divination
The Mall tile deck is placed face up, so you can always see the upcoming tile that 
will be added to the mall.
SCENARIO 9 ◆ Follow the leader! 
3 players or more.
During the setup, use the Action tiles corresponding to a game with one player 
fewer; give one of them to each player, except one player, who doesn't get any. 
Instead, that player is the only one allowed to use the “Do Something!” pawn.
This scenario allows 9 players to play!
SCENARIO 10 ◆ Trick the Guards
In order to deceive the guards, the heroes must steal an item that's not theirs, 
then escape through an exit that's not theirs. Each exit can only be taken by one 
hero; therefore, leave the Hero pawns on them.
SCENARIO 11 ◆ Rearrangement mode
The walls never stop moving. Before the items are stolen, each time the sand timer 
is flipped, discard two revealed tiles that were already placed in the shopping mall. 
In order to be able to discard a tile, it must meet the following requirements:
It must have no Hero pawns and no Out of Order tokens on it.
Tile 1 can never be removed from the mall.
After the tile is discarded, it must still be possible to get everywhere in the 
shopping mall without using the Vortex spaces (i.e. so you can escape).
If you cannot remove two tiles without infringing upon these conditions, you 
lose the game.
Tuck the two discarded tiles face down under the deck. If the deck was already 
exhausted, these two tiles become the new deck.
SCENARIO 12 ◆ Gestures only
When you are allowed to communicate, you can only communicate with gestures: 
you can never use language!
SCENARIO 13 ◆ Multidimensional mall
The shopping center occupies two planes of existence.
Setup: place the orange and green Hero pawns on tile 1 as usual. Place tile 
3 on the table a little farther away, and place the yellow and purple Hero pawns 
anywhere on it. These two tiles represent the two dimensions that can never 
be connected after exploring a new tile (push them farther away if necessary). 
The Mall tile deck is placed face up so you can always see the upcoming tile that 
will be added to the mall.
In order to distract the guards, the four Hero pawns can never be in the same 
dimension all at the same time. A Hero pawn can only travel between the dimen-
sions with the Use a Vortex action, moving from a Vortex space of its colour in 
the dimension where it is to a Vortex space of its colour in the other dimension. 
This is the only valid way to use a vortex during this scenario.
Caution: if you place the tiles badly during the game, you may not be able 
to escape the mall. Do not forget that the Vortex system is disabled after the 
theft has occurred!
SCENARIO 14 ◆ No communication
No communication is allowed at all, at any time. You are still allowed to stare 
intensely at an other player and to use the “Do Something!” pawn.
SCENARIO 15 ◆ You have beautiful eyes
No communication is allowed at all, at any time, and you are not allowed to use the 
“Do Something!” pawn. You can still stare at another player… even more intensely.
SCENARIO 16 ◆ Vortex out of service
The entire Vortex system is out of service during the whole game. Therefore, you 
can never use the Use a Vortex action.
SCENARIO 17 ◆ Groups forbidden
The guards are suspicious of groups of people: during the game, two or more Hero 
pawns can never be on the same Mall tile, except for tile 1, where any number of 
Hero pawns can stand simultaneously. Do not remove the Hero pawns from the 
board once they reach their exit; that way, they still prevent other Hero pawns 
from entering that tile.