Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 MALL OF HORROR
Pub: 	
Asmodee (2005)
Page 1: 	 Rules summary
Page 2: 	 Reference
v1.3
Oct 2012
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
For best results, print on card, laminate and trim to size.

Setup
1. Choose Characters Each player chooses a color and 
gets the matching Pin-Up, Tough Guy and Gunman 
characters and a Voting Wheel. Players in a 3 player 
game also get the Little Girl character.
	
Each player gets one Action card and the remaining 
cards are placed face down next to the board.
2. Chief of Security The oldest person takes the Chief 
of Security badge and is the first player. All group 
actions start with the Chief of Security.
3. Close location if required Close Cachou (Location 2) 
in a 3 or 4 player games.
4. Place characters Starting with the Chief and 
proceeding clockwise, each player rolls 2 dice and 
places one of his characters in a location matching 
one of the dice. Continue until all characters are 
placed. If both dice indicate full locations, then the 
player may choose any location that has room.
5. Place zombies The Chief rolls 4 dice and places a 
zombies in front of each location indicated by a die.
Voting
When voting, players use their Voting Wheel and choices 
are revealed simultaneously. You may vote for yourself.
If a player has several characters in the same location, 
he has that many votes. If his colour is chosen, he can 
choose which of his characters is selected.
In the case of a tie there is a re-vote, and players who do 
not have characters in the location are allowed a single 
vote. Only characters in the location may be voted for.
Gunmen
Gunmen get an extra vote when they are present.
Threat cards
Players may discard any number of Threat cards before 
any single vote to receive an extra vote per card.
Negotiation
A player may never show the dice or cards to another 
player. Except after searching the truck, a player may 
never give cards to another player.
Order of Play
a. Search the Truck 
All characters in the Parking Lot (Location 4) vote to 
decide who searches the truck.
The winner looks at the top three Action cards, keeps 
one card and gives one card to any other player. The 
third card is placed at the bottom of the deck. 
Ties in the second vote result in no cards being 
distributed. Ignore the phase if there are no cards.
b. Elect the Chief of Security 
All characters in the Security HQ (Location 5) vote to 
decide who will be Chief of Security this round.
Ties in the second vote result in no one being elected 
Chief of Security, and the current Chief of Security 
remains.
c. Arrival of the Zombies 
The Chief rolls the dice under cover of the dice box. 
A Chief of Security may view the dice only if he was 
elected this round. A player may use a Security Camera 
card to view the dice.
d. Choose Destinations 
A Chief of Security elected this round must choose his 
destination first and tell the other players.
All other players use their wheels to select a destination 
where they will move one of their characters. 
No location may take more people than push-pins.
e. Move Characters 
Reveal destinations simultaneously. The Chief places 
the zombies according to the dice. If location 2 is 
indicated in a 3 or 4 player game, this die is ignored.
An empty location with 8 or more zombies is 
condemned. The Parking Lot (Location 4) can never be 
condemned. All the zombies are removed.
Move characters to their chosen destinations. 
If a character is moved to a full location, then the 
character must go to the Parking Lot (Location 4). 
A player must move a character, but may discard a 
Sprint card to change his destination, even returning to 
the location he left.
f. Attack of the Zombies 
Place an extra zombie on the location with the most 
characters. 
Place an extra zombie on the location with the most 
Pin-Ups.
If several locations have the same maximum, none 
attract an extra zombie.
Starting with Location 1 and ending with Location 6, 
resolve the Zombie attacks. 
If the number of zombies are greater than or equal to the 
number of characters at the location (Tough Guys count 
as 2), they enter the location. All players with at least 
one character there vote to decide who loses a character 
at that location to the zombies. 
Ties in the second vote result in a random character 
colour being selected.
In the Supermarket (Location 6), 4 zombies are enough 
to enter no matter how many characters are there.
Before the vote, each player may discard one or more 
Action cards which may reduce the zombies to a safe 
number so they cannot enter. 
If the Zombies do enter and feed, they are all removed 
from the location. 
In the Parking Lot (Location 4) every zombie feeds. A 
vote is taken for each Zombie, one at a time. All Zombies 
are removed from the Parking Lot after this phase.
Cards
Hardware
Holds off one extra zombie. Can’t be used in the Parking 
Lot (Location 4), or to stop 4 or more zombies entering 
the Supermarket (Location 6).
Weapon
Immediately kills one or two zombies depending on the 
number of zombie shadows on the card.
Hidden
A character (token) may not be a victim, but also may 
not vote. This character still counts towards keeping the 
zombies out. The Hidden card may be used for all votes 
at the Parking Lot (Location 4) for one round. 
Every card played is immediately removed from the 
game.
Player becomes a Zombie
If at the end of an Attack (Phase F) a player is left with 
no more characters, then he can no longer play.
However, he may still participate in group votes 
(second votes in the case of a tie) and may on the next 
round only, return as a Zombie by placing a Zombie 
at the location of his choice at the end of the choose 
Destinations phase (Phase D).
Game End
The game ends if all remaining characters are at the 
same location, except for the Parking Lot (Location 4), 
or there are only 4 remaining characters (6 in a 6 player 
games).
The winner is the person with the most Victory Points 
(total the numbers on the surviving character tokens). 
Ties are broken by the number of unused cards.

PIN-UP MODEL	
VP 7
F: Zombie Attack:
Attracts 1 extra zombie
TOUGH GUY	
VP 5
STRENGTH: 2
F: Zombie Attack:
Keeps out 2 zombies
GUNMAN	
VP 3
VOTE: 2
Any voting phase:
Counts as 2 votes
LITTLE GIRL	
VP 1
3 PLAYER GAME ONLY
F: Zombie Attack before vote.
Immediately kills number of zombies shown on card.
C: Arrival of the Zombies.
May secretly look at the 
hidden dice after the Chief 
of Security.
E: Move Characters.
May change destination 
(even back to where you 
left).
ACTION CARDS cards played are immediately removed from the game
F: Zombie Attack 
before a vote.
Keeps 1 additional 
zombie out.
Can’t be used in the Parking Lot (Location 4) 
or to stop 4 or more zombies entering the 
Supermarket (Location 6).
Before any vote.
A character cannot be 
chosen, but also may 
not vote.
Can be used for all votes at the Parking Lot 
(Location 4) for one round. Character still 
counts towards number required to keep 
zombies out.
A: 	SEARCH THE TRUCK
All characters in Parking 
Lot vote.
Winner takes 3 cards: 
keep 1, give 1, return 
1 to bottom of deck.
B: 	ELECT THE CHIEF OF 	
	 SECURITY (CoS)
All characters in Security 
HQ vote for CoS this round.
Winner takes CoS badge.
On 2nd tie current CoS 
remains.
C: 	ARRIVAL OF THE 		
	 ZOMBIES
CoS rolls the hidden dice.
May secretly look at result 
only if he was elected this 
round.
D: 	CHOOSE 	
	
	 DESTINATIONS
If elected this round CoS 
selects his destination first 
and reveals to all.
All players secretly select 
destination for one of their 
characters.
E: 	MOVE CHARACTERS
All players reveal selected 
destinations simultaneously.
CoS reveals dice and places 
zombies.
All players, in turn order, 
move a character to chosen 
destination. If the location 
is full must move to Parking 
Lot.
An empty location (except 
the Parking Lot) with 8+ 
zombies is condemned and 
all zombies removed. 
F: 	ZOMBIE ATTACK
Extra zombie on location 
with most characters.
Extra zombie on location 
with most Pin-Ups.
If several have the same 
maximum, none attract an 
extra zombie.
Starting with Location 1 and 
continuing in numeric order, 
if zombie strength is greater 
or equal to human strength 
then vote for victim.
4 zombies are strong enough 
to enter the Supermarket.
If victim claimed remove all 
zombies from that location.
Every zombie in the Parking 
Lot claims a victim by vote.
If zombies remain in the 
Parking Lot but no more 
characters, all zombies 
removed from this location.
G: 	RESCUE HELICOPTER 	
	 ARRIVES?
Game ends if either:
All characters alive are in 
same location.
Only 4 characters are left 
alive (6 in a 6 player game).
Before any vote.
Gain one additional vote.
GAME SEQUENCE