Who is the best pizza maker?
In this delicious card game, the players are pizza makers. 
The players take orders from the waiters and ingredients from the
supply. They put them all together in the oven and bake. 
When all the ingredients are used up, the players open the oven to
discover which pizzas were baked properly, and which were not.
The players take back their orders for their improperly baked
pizzas so they can try again in the next round.
After three rounds, the player who has delivered the most pizzas is
the best pizza maker and the winner!
Contents
There are three different kinds of cards.
65 ingredient cards(13 each of salami, pineapple, mushroom,
pepper and olive), 40 orders (8 in each of 5 colors), 
1 Mamma Mia! card, 1 rule booklet
Preparation
- Shuffle the ingredient cards and deal 6 to each player. They
take them as their starting hands.
- Now shuffle the Mamma Mia! card and the ingredient cards
together. Place these cards face down as a supply in the middle
of the table.
- Each player takes a set of eight orders (with matching backs),
shuffles them, and places them face down on the table. This is
each player’s waiter. Then each player draws the first order card
from their waiter and adds it to his hand.
- The oven is next to the supply. The oven is a face-up discard stack.
The players play their ingredient and order cards on the oven.
- The players choose a starting player and the others follow in
clockwise order.
The Mamma Mia! card
When a player draws the Mamma Mia! card, he
places it face up on the table next to his waiter and
immediately draws another card.
At the end of a round, the player with the Mamma
Mia! card removes the pizzas from the oven to determine which
are properly baked and which are not. He then begins the next
round as the new starting player.
A game round
Put pizzas in the oven
On a player’s turn, he must place at least one ingredient card
from his hand in the oven: he places the ingredient card(s) face
up on the discard stack next to the supply. A player may place
more than one card in the oven on his turn, but they must all be
the same kind of ingredient.
After placing the ingredients, the player announces the number
and kind placed, e.g. “three peppers”.
Next, the player may place 1 order card from his hand face up in
the oven: he places the order card face up on the discard stack
next to the supply. Players should place order cards when they
believe that all the ingredients needed to properly bake the pizza
are already in the oven.
Players may never check the contents of the oven (the oven cards
are stacked so only the topmost card can be seen), but must wait
until the end of the round when all pizzas are taken from the
oven to learn if their pizzas are properly baked.
Finally, the player draws enough cards to return his hand size to
seven cards. The player must, however, draw cards only from the
supply or from his waiter, and not both during a turn.
The player’s turn is done and his left neighbor takes his turn.
When a player draws cards from the supply or his waiter and there
are not enough cards there to fill his hand, he takes only the cards
that are there and, thus, takes his next turn with fewer than seven
cards. He may not use this opportunity to draw additional cards
from the other card stack (waiter or supply).
As soon as a player draws the last card from the supply, the round
ends, and the player with the Mamma Mia! card takes all the
pizzas from the oven.
Take the pizzas from the oven
The Mamma Mia! player takes the cards from the oven and turns
them over in his hand so they are face down. He may not change
the order of the cards in the oven!
Now he turns over cards from the oven, one at a time, and sorts
the ingredient cards by placing them face up on the table as
shown below. The cards should overlap each other so the number
of cards of each kind can be easily seen.
When he turns over an order card, the players check to see if all
the necessary ingredients for the pizza are available in the sorted
ingredients on the table:
- If all the necessary ingredients are there, the pizza is properly
baked. The player, whose order was properly baked (the color of
the order matches the player), takes the order and places it face
up next to his waiter to show it has been delivered. The
Mamma Mia! player takes the ingredients used in this pizza
from the sorted ingredients and puts them face down in a stack
for used ingredients.
- If all the necessary ingredients are not there, the player, whose
order was turned over, may add missing ingredient cards from
his hand to complete the order.
oven
hand
supply
used
ingredients
oven
(face down)
waiter
waiter
delievered orders
oven (sorted)
order
or

If he can add all the missing ingredients, his pizza is properly
baked. He puts the order in his delivered stack and the Mamma
Mia! player takes the ingredients, including those added by the
player and puts them on the stack for used ingredients.
If the player cannot complete the pizza, it is not properly baked
and he puts the order card face down on the bottom of his
waiter stack.
Unused ingredients remain face-up in the sorted oven.
The Mamma Mia! player continues to turn over cards from the
oven until all have been turned over.
After all oven cards have been turned over, the Mamma Mia!
player puts all the unused ingredient cards from the oven face up
as the new oven stack for the next round.
The Mamma Mia! player shuffles the used ingredients cards (that
were used to complete properly baked pizzas) together with the
Mamma Mia! card to form a new supply, which he places face
down on the table.
The Mamma Mia! player now begins the next round.
Note: it can occur that a player has no ingredient cards to play
on his turn. When this occurs, he must pass, playing no cards 
(not even an order card). 
He then draws cards as normal to fill his hand to seven cards.
Game end and scoring
The game ends after the oven has been emptied and any properly
baked pizzas in it delivered for the third time.
The winner is the player who has delivered the most pizzas (has
the most order cards in his delivery stack). If two or more players
tie with the most, the player among them with the most
ingredients left in his hand is the winner.
The orders
Five of each player’s orders are simple orders
showing just the ingredients available in the game.
To be properly baked, the ingredients shown must
be face-up in the oven when the order is turned up.
As always, the player, whose order it is, may add
ingredients from his hand to complete the order.
Each player also has three special pizzas, which are completed in
the same way: from the face up oven cards and/or from the play-
er’s hand. These orders are described below:
Pizza Bombastica
To properly bake this pizza, a player needs at 
least 15 ingredients of any kinds. If more than
15 ingredients are face up in the oven, the
Mamma Mia! player takes all of them for the
pizza. Thus, after this pizza is delivered, there 
are no face-up cards in the oven!
Pizza Minimale
To properly bake this pizza, a player needs 1 of 
his personal ingredient (shown on the card) and
3 ingredients of a single different kind. This
different ingredient is shown on the card by a “?”.
The different ingredient is the ingredient that has
the fewest cards in the face up oven. If more than one ingredient
ties with the fewest, the player whose order card is turned over
chooses the ingredient. In no case can the player choose his per-
sonal ingredient or an ingredient with no cards in the face up oven.
Pizza Monotoni
To properly bake this pizza, a player needs 1 of 
his personal ingredient (shown on the card) and
6 ingredients of a single different kind. 
This different ingredient is shown on the card by 
a “J” (for joker). The player whose order card is
turned over chooses the ingredient when it is turned over. In no
case can the player choose his personal ingredient as the joker.
Examples
Example for a players turn:
It is Alberto’s (green) turn. He takes 3 salami cards from his
hand and places them face up in the oven (places them on 
the discard stack). He says aloud, “Three salami!” 
Next, he places his order with 4 salami and 1 pepper showing
on it in the oven (face up on top of the discard stack). He
decides to draw from his waiter stack, but as there are only
three cards there, takes all three and must play with only
6 cards until his next turn, when he can again fill his hand 
to 7 cards.
Example of a properly baked pizza:
As shown above, the following ingredients are in the face up
oven: 1 pepper, 2 salami, 3 pineapple, and 4 mushroom.
Next, the Mamma Mia! player turns over an order card: 4
pineapple and 1 pepper for Alberto (green) from the oven.
As there are not enough pineapple cards in the
face up oven (3 instead of 4), Alberto adds
1 pineapple card from his hand to
complete the order.
The Mamma Mia! player puts the five ingredient
cards: (4 pineapple and 1 pepper) on the used
ingredient stack. 
Alberto takes his order card and places it face-up in his
delivery stack. The unused ingredient cards remain in the
face-up oven and the Mamma Mia! player turns over the 
next card in the oven.
Example for a Pizza Minimale:
The following ingredients are in the face up oven: 2 pepper,
2 salami, 2 mushroom, and 3 pineapple. Next, the Mamma
Mia! player turns over Alberto’s (green) Pizza Minimale
order. The order requires 1 pepper and 3 of a different
ingredient. Three ingredient kinds tie for fewest cards showing
in the face-up oven: pepper, salami, and mushroom. As pepper
is Alberto’s personal ingredient, he may not choose this as the
different ingredient. Also, as there are no olives showing,
Alberto may not choose olives for the different ingredient. Thus,
Alberto must choose between salami and mushroom. If he has
a third salami or mushroom card in his hand, he can place
this on the table and properly bake his Pizza Minimale
Author: Uwe Rosenberg
Graphics: Franz Vohwinkel
English translation: Anna & Jay Tummelson
Distribution United States:
Rio Grande Game
www.riogrande.com
All Rights Reserved.
Made in Germany.
© 2004 ABACUSSPIELE
Verlags GmbH & Co KG, D-63303 Dreieich