Dedicated to immersive, thematic tabletop games. Rules summaries, foamcore 
plans, battle reports, interviews, reviews, videos, tutorials – and lots more. 
Sign up to the monthly newsletter on the website!

Since 2004, I’ve been supplying tabletop gamers with hundreds of 
free high-quality rules summaries! And the Esoteric Order of Gamers 
features hundreds of entertaining and informative videos about our 
excellent hobby.
It takes time and money to do this work, and just a few $ a month 
really does help me do much more. Join the official EOG community – 
and get bonus rewards too!

Game: 	
MAN O’ WAR
Publisher: 	
Games Workshop (1993)
Page 1: 	
Rules summary front
Page 2: 	
Rules summary back
Page 3: 	
Monsters & Flyers summary front
Page 4: 	
Monsters & Flyers summary back
v2
Jul 2021
Print on card (ensure you are printing at 100% scale) laminate and trim to size. 
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for additional reference. Universal 
Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially 
from these player aids. Artwork from the original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This 
PDF may not be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
If you need exceptional quality graphic design 
for your next project, visit universalhead.com
Peter ‘Universal Head’ Gifford 
The Esoteric Order of Gamers

Setup
Buy your fleet, a wizard, and man o’war cards. A 
normal game is 1,000 points per side. Fleet purchasing 
requirements vary for each race. Ships are either man o’ 
wars (MOW), independents (IND) or squadrons of 3 ships 
of the line (SOL). 
Draw the appropriate number of magic cards per wizard. 
The college colour of a wizard is chosen randomly.
Man o’ war cards cost 25 points and are dealt randomly 
and allocated to man o’ war ships. No man o’ war may 
have more than 1 card with the same symbol on it. You do 
not get points back for cards you cannot use.
Place an admiral counter on each player’s command ship 
(this must be a MOW). That ship is also dealt 1 free man 
o’ war card. 
Place crew counters equal to a ship’s crew strength on 
each ship template. 
Divide the player area into 2' square sections and roll a 
die for each:
	
Roll	
Number of terrain features
	
1-2	
None
	
3-4 	
	
	
Beginning with a random player, each player takes a piece 
of terrain and places it in the section of his choice until all 
terrain features are placed.
Decide which table edge is north and roll a dice: on 2, 4 or 
6 the wind is blowing north; otherwise it is blowing south. 
Place the wind compass to indicate wind direction.
The highest rolling player chooses to set up on the east 
or west sides, and begins by placing a single MOW, IND 
or SOL squadron. Players alternate taking turns placing a 
single MOW, IND or SOL squadron within 9" of their table 
edge and 9" from the north and south edges.
Squadrons
One ship from each squadron is nominated as the 
flagship; place a flagship counter on its template. If a 
flagship is sunk or cannot move, another ship may take 
over as flagship.
All actions for each ship are performed individually. 
Each ship moves, shoots and then performs any boarding 
action before moving on to the next ship in the squadron 
(or passing play to your opponent if you moved a MOW or 
IND). Once a player touches a ship they are committed to 
finishing its move.
You cannot pass on a turn but may select a squadron and 
perform no actions with it.
If a SOL ever ends a turn more then 6" from its flagship 
it becomes a straggler and subject to the rules for 
stragglers until it rejoins its squadron.
Turn sequence
1. Initiative phase
Roll a d6 to determine who goes first. 
On a double the wind changes one position; clockwise for 
evens, counter-clockwise for odds. Reroll to win initiative.
House rule: On double 5s or 6s the wind changes 2 
positions. 
2. Magic phase
The starting player casts a spell and their opponent may 
attempt to dispel it, then vice-versa.
3. Battle phase
Starting with the player with the initiative, players take 
turns moving and fighting with a single MOW, IND or 
squadron of SOL ships.
4. End phase
Record keeping, replenish magic cards, check for fires 
spreading and move stragglers.
The rule of one
1 on a d6 roll always means failure despite modifiers. 
6 on a d6 roll always means success when rolling for 
saves despite modifiers.
Magic
Roll the casting number or higher to successfully cast or 
dispel a spell. 
The spell colour a spell can dispel is shown on the bottom 
of the card. If a spell allows you to move an enemy ship 
you may not move it off the table. 
Unless stated on the card, spells last for a single turn. 
Spells are discarded once attempted or used.
A wizard lord adds +1 to their roll when casting or 
dispelling a spell. Once per turn, if they fail to cast or 
dispel a spell of their own college colour, they may reroll 
the dice. 
House rule: No spell may be cast on the first game turn.
Ship templates give the ship’s maximum speed in inches.
Speed can be affected by damage and the wind as noted. 
Use the turning template when turning; each turn must 
use 2 inches of movement.
Movement under sail
Check the wind direction by placing the turning template 
against the ship. If a straight line from the wind to the 
ship’s bow passes through the template you are not 
sailing into the wind. 
Some ships move faster with the wind astern. Place 
the template so it is facing the stern and use the same 
procedure.
Once the direction of the wind is found the ship is 
considered to be at that angle to the wind for the whole 
of its turn. 
All ships under sail which turn to face the wind must 
finish moving immediately after the turn. 
A ship under sail that starts its movement against the wind 
may only make a single turn to face out of the wind.
Movement with oars
Ships using oars are not affected by the wind. They may 
turn 90º on the spot by expending half their move and 
180º by expending all; and may row backwards up to 2” 
instead of a normal move.
You may only move at ramming speed if you make no turns.
Ramming
Ships with oars and rams may ram. The ship must move 
at least 3" in a straight line to the target. 
Damage is inflicted immediately according to the 
ramming chart for that vessel, and then the ship may fire 
its cannons and initiate a boarding action.
Obstructions
Any ship moving over a sandbank, rocks, terrain etc ends 
movement, runs aground and must make a below the 
waterline saving throw. If failed the ship takes 1-3 points 
of below the waterline damage.
If starting the battle phase aground, roll 4+ to move away 
or be stuck until the next turn’s attempt.
Collisions
If a ship touches another, movement ends. A ram or 
boarding action may take place. If starting a turn in 
contact a ship may push clear at a cost of half movement, 
moving along the side of the other ship.
Any ship that sails off the table edge has left the battle 
and may not return.
Combat and damage
Choose your target and measure the range using the 
range template, with the centre mark touching the centre 
of the front or side of the firing ship.
Cannons are the standard weapons and have a range of 
9" and each can fire once per battle phase. 
A ship can be in close, medium, or long range. A shot hits 
the first obstacle that is under the range template.
Declare if you are aiming high or low if required (you 
cannot split cannons firing in the same direction) and roll 
a d6. The result indicates the hit location on the target’s 
template.
The target can make a saving throw for each hit location, 
modified by the shooting weapon’s range (if applicable).
Other weaponry may have different specifics and 
requirements, but the general rule is that to check the 
range, roll the dice to determine location, conduct saves 
and then mark damage if necessary.

Damage
If a location fails its save, place a damage marker and 
note the side effects if there are any.
If an area containing cannons that can fire broadside is 
destroyed, the ship can no longer fire on both sides with 
those guns.
Critical hits
If a destroyed area is hit again and fails its save, a critical 
hit occurs (unless otherwise indicated). Roll on the critical 
hit table:
1	 Panic spreads through the ship as the enemy shots 
strike home inflicting terrible damage on men and 
equipment. The crew call upon the captain to guide 
them through the danger. Make a roll on the captain’s 
chart.
2	 The tar-saturated wood catches light and flames start 
to spread across the ship. Replace the damage marker 
on this location with a blaze marker. Test on the blaze 
spreading table in the end phase.
3	 A great chunk of the ship is torn away, washing men 
and goods overboard. The ship loses 1 crew counter. 
If the ship is left without any crew counters, it is 
abandoned.
4	 With an ominous creak, the seams of the boat start to 
split. The ship takes 1 below the waterline hit.
5	 A great gash appears in the side of the ship as the sea 
floods the lower decks. The ship takes 2 below the 
waterline hits.
6	 The hull gives way with a resounding crack. The ship 
takes 3 below the waterline his.
If a ship’s crew strength is reduced to 0 the ship is 
abandoned. 
If a below the waterline hit is indicated the ship does not 
get a saving throw for that hit. 
If a fire is indicated replace the damage counter with a 
blaze counter; it may spread in the end phase.
Captain’s chart
1	 The captain’s maps and charts are burnt to a crisp. 
The ship may not move this turn if it hsn’t already 
done so as the captain has to preplot its course. Place 
a no movement counter next to the ship; remove the 
counter at the end of the turn.
2	 The captain’s treasure chest is split open, spraying the 
deck with gold. The ship may not fire this turn as the 
crew are too busy picking up the fallen booty. Place a 
no firing counter next to the ship; remove the counter 
at the end of the turn.
3	 The captain is caught by a stray shot and killed 
outright. The ship may do nothing but defend itself 
until the end of the turn, when a new captain is 
elected. Place a no movement and a no firing counter 
next to the ship; remove both counters at the end of 
the turn.
4	 The captain is washed overboard by a freak wave. Roll 
a dice. To pick the captain up:
1-2	 Ship must take a 2" left turn.
3-4	 Ship must take a 2" right turn.
5-6	 Ship must move straight ahead 2".
5	 The captain’s secret rum stash is hit. The decks are 
awash with alcohol. Roll a dice for each crew counter: 
on a 6 they are drunk and fall overboard. Remove any 
drunk crew counters from the ship.
6	 Mutiny! Roll a dice for each crew counter: on a 5 or 6 
they take to the boats and abandon ship. Remove the 
mutineers from the ship.
Effects of ramming
The opposing player must make a saving throw against a 
below the waterline hit. If it fails the ship takes damage 
(see the attacking ship’s details).
Sinking
Once a ship’s below the waterline area is destroyed it 
sinks. Place a sunk counter on the template and replace 
the ship with a wreckage marker. Wreckage markers 
obstruct movement and line of sight like a ship.
During the end phase replace it with a debris marker; this 
does not obstruct movement or line of sight. At the end of 
the next turn this is removed. 
Any admiral or wizard who was on the ship may cling to 
wreckage or debris while it is there.
Boarding actions
Only 1 boarding action can be initiated per turn if a ship is 
in contact with 2 or more ships. 
Both sides roll a dice and add the number of crew 
counters on their ship. The defender adds the number of 
remaining cannons he has pointing in the direction of the 
attacker. A ship with an admiral gets +1 to the boarding 
action roll. The player with the lowest total loses a crew 
counter.
A winning attacker may press on or break off the attack. 
A winning defender may cut grapples and the boarding 
action ends. If he continues he is the attacker and can no 
longer add cannons to his roll, but then his opponent may 
if he has them.
If totals are the same, both sides lose a crew and the 
defender decides whether to cut grapples.
If all the crew are killed, any admiral or wizard on board 
is killed.
A ship with no crew counters left has lost; place an 
abandoned marker on the ship’s template and an 
abandoned counter by the ship. Any boarding action 
against the ship will succeed automatically.
Captured ships
An winning player may transfer crew counters (up to the 
original ship limit) and take the ship as a prize, or scuttle 
the ship. 
A prize ship (place a captured marker on the ship’s 
template and a captured counter by the ship) cannot 
move or fire and if repelling boarders the crew cannot use 
the ship’s cannons.
House rule: If a ship has been captured for at least 1 full 
turn it is worth double battle honours.
Ships are scuttled during the end phase.
A recaptured ship may be recrewed but acts as a 
straggler this turn.
End phase
Pick up survivors
Any ships in contact with wreckage or debris may rescue 
admirals or wizards clinging to it.
Wreckage and debris
Remove debris markers; any characters clinging to the 
debris are lost. Change wreckage markers into debris.
Fires
Roll on the blaze spreading table for each area on fire on 
the ship:
Blaze goes out; remove the blaze marker (BM)
2-3 	
Blaze does not spread
Blaze spreads forward; place another BM
Blaze spreads upward; place another BM
Blaze spreads backwards; place another BM
If a fire goes out, replace it with a damage marker. 
If the fire spreads, place another fire marker left or right 
as appropriate. There is no saving throw. If there is a 
choice of areas roll a die. If there is no space nothing 
happens. If the area is already damaged it is simply set on 
fire; there is no critical hit.
Blazing locations are treated as destroyed locations. If 
there is a fire in a location that can take 2 hits and only 
one is ablaze, any result that says a fire spreads means 
the second part of the area is now ablaze too.
Stragglers
Stragglers cannot move or fire in the battle phase though 
they may defend as normal if boarded. In the end phase 
they may move but cannot fire or board.
Scuttle ships
If the original boarding ship is no longer in contact the 
boarding crew are out of the game. Replace the scuttled 
ship with a wreckage marker.
Remove counters
Remove any no movement or no firing counters placed as 
a result of critical hits or magic spells.
Pick up magic cards
If your wizard is still alive and not clinging to wreckage, 
discard any magic cards not wanted and then replenish 
your hand to full strength. Then, any spells played this 
turn with a duration of 1 turn are removed.
Victory
If all of one side’s ships are sunk or captured the game 
ends; the other player is the winner. 
Optionally, play to a time limit and count up battle 
honours: each player totals the number of below the 
waterline hits for all enemy ships they sunk or captured. 
Any enemy ships scuttled or abandoned at the end of the 
game count as ships sunk.
An admiral captured or killed is worth 5 battle honours. 
Wizards are worth 1 for a wizard champion, 2 for a master 
wizard and 3 for a wizard lord.

SEA MONSTERS
Sea monsters may be used by any race. You may never 
have more sea monsters in your fleet than you have 
squadrons of ships of the line.
They are deployed one at a time, starting with the player 
who won the roll to set up first, after terrain but before 
fleet deployment. 
Place the template anywhere on the table facedown with 
the arrow pointing towards you.
Summoning
During their battle phase, instead of moving a ship or 
squadron, a player may summon one of their monsters by 
rolling 4+ (a spellcaster adds their spell casting bonus). 
The monster is placed anywhere in the template area and 
the template moved off-board. It now moves and attacks 
like an independent ship (starting with this turn). 
If the summoning roll fails, your turn is over and play 
passes to your opponent.
Monsters have a movement rate in dice inches on their 
template and have the option to move on the surface (and 
attack) or dive (no attack). 
They may change facing and turn as often as desired. 
If you roll a double when rolling for movement, roll on the 
sea monster reaction table below. If the monster returns 
to its lair, remove the model, and your opponent places 
the template anywhere at least 2" from any ship. For 
each turn the monster remains in its lair remove 1 wound 
counter from its template.
	
Monster returns to lair, remove from play
	
Monster becomes frenzied, moves at full speed 		
	
	
towards nearest friendly vessel and, if it reaches 	
	
	
it, attacks it.
	 3-5 	
Monster under control
	
Monster under control; may either move twice 	 	
	
	
or attack twice this turn.
At the start of a move a monster may dive (place a 
submerged counter next to it), where it is immune from 
all attacks. 
It must move towards a target and try to touch it, but 
cannot attack in the same turn as diving and must surface 
at the start of its next move and may then move and 
attack normally.
	Attacks
Each turn a monster may make a special attack and a 
boarding action against a model it is in contact with. 
Special attacks are detailed on its template. 
In a boarding action, roll a dice for the monster’s attack, 
adding its current wounds. The opponent rolls 1 dice, 
adding the number of crew counters, and any modifiers 
for magic, MOW cards, cannons etc. 
If the monster wins, 1 crew counter is devoured and you 
may press on or retreat. If the ship wins, the monster 
loses 1 wound and the ship may press on or drive it off. 
If a draw, the ship loses a crew, the monster a wound, and 
the ship chooses whether to drive the monster off. 
If the monster retreats or is driven off, move 1" directly 
away from the ship and your turn ends.
While in contact with a monster, a ship may not move, 
fire at anything else, or engage in other boarding actions. 
Other ships may fire at the monster (roll a dice: on a 1-3 
you target the ship instead) but may not board or ram it. 
Spells affect both ship and attacking monster.
A monster may use as many dice as it has wounds for 
defensive fire against flyers.
Wounds
Once all the spaces on a monster’s wound track are filled 
it is dead. They never take critical hits or are set on fire. 
If wounded by a flyer they will dive for a turn. If rammed, 
and if they fail their save, they take a number of wounds 
equal to the number of BTW hits.

AIRPOWER
Flyers may be bought out of the standard allowance or a 
200 point extra allowance for each side.
They are deployed, and move and fire, in squadrons or as 
independents.
Flyers may change facing and turn as often as desired, 
fly over any obstacles and are generally unaffected by 
the wind.
Attacks
As soon as an attacking flyer comes in base-to-base 
contact, its target may make a single defensive attack 
outside the normal turn sequence. Roll dice equal to 
the target’s number of crew counters; the flyer makes a 
saving throw for each dice that hits, taking a wound for 
each failed save.
House rule: Since flyers are usually obliterated by 
defensive fire, have the flyer attack first with the 
defensive fire in retaliation to it.
Dark elf monsters get 1 dice defensive fire. A sea monster 
may use as many dice as it has wounds.
Special attacks are missile and bombing attacks, and are 
made after movement against a base-to-base target.
Boarding actions
After its special attack a flyer may engage in a boarding 
action. 
Roll a die and add the number of wounds the flyer has; 
the opponent rolls a die and adds their number of crew 
counters (no bonus for cannons). The highest score wins, 
and the loser takes 1 wound or loses 1 crew counter. 
If the target ship wins or draws, it may attack the flyer 
or drive it off. If it is driven off, move the flyer 1" directly 
away from the ship. 
The boarding action continues until the flyer or the ship’s 
crew is dead or the flyer is driven off.
Flyers vs flyers
Move the flyer in base-to-base contact with its target; if 
the target has defensive armament it may get defensive 
fire. 
Make a special attack, then make a close combat attack. 
A close combat attack is conducted like a boarding action 
but you may not board the enemy flyer. 
Both players roll a die adding their current wounds. The 
loser takes a wound; if a draw, both take a wound. 
If the defender wins they may go on the offensive or drive 
the attacker off 1".
Wounds
Flyers do not take critical hits; they take another wound if 
the same location is hit twice. 
If a rider or pilot is killed, the flyer is removed from play, 
even if it has wounds remaining.
Magic
Spells may be cast against flyers as if they were ships. Any 
spells that cause damage, set locations ablaze or kill crew 
will cause 1 wound for each point of damage done.
Anti-flyer weapons
Anti-flyer weapons may be bought for 25 points each out 
of the standard allowance or a 100 point extra allowance 
for each side. They can only be used by men o’ war ships, 
and you can only have one per ship.
Anti-flyer weaponry is the only way a flyer can be targeted 
directly besides a magic spell or in retaliation to the flyer’s 
special attack with defensive fire.
After firing cannons a ship may fire its anti-flyer weapon 
at a single flyer in range.