A far-eastern business contest
for 3 to 5 players aged 10 and up
It is 1821, and for 250 years the Philippine Islands have been under the thumb of the Spanish crown. In the shadow of 
the colonial power, self-willed natives have established secret maritime trade with the Asiatic mainland. Using odd-looking 
punts and fragile bamboo barks, these black market traders cram their boats with nutmeg, silk, jade, and ginseng, and set 
sail to smuggle them into MANILA. Success in each venture is uncertain, as the seaworthiness of both boats and captains is 
poor. To add to their woes, pirates lie in wait to plunder boats that cannot escape them.
Given all this, it is not surprising that wares that reach the black markets in MANILA command high prices, making
the venture worth the risk for those who succeed. The black market dealers use accomplices to ensure they get the
wares, bribe pilots to aid their cargoes and hinder others, and insure their cargoes against failure. And a few wealthy
merchants hire pirates to attack the black market boats and secretly pocket the profits from these raids.
Contents:
fig. 1: showing the contents, game board descriptions
1 game board
3 punts
Before the first game, assemble 
the three punts like this:
20 accomplices
in five colors
20 shares:
5 each of
4 wares
4 ware loads
for the 4 wares
4 dice (in the colors
of the 4 wares)
4 value indicators (in the
colors of the 4 wares)
79 coins of the Philippine
currency, “PESO”
nutmeg silk ginseng jade
small
pilot
pirate
shipyard
wharf
large
pilot
Game overview
sea route
insurance
black market 
table
The game is played over several rounds (called voyages). In each voyage, 3 punts are loaded with wares and set sail for MANILA. 
At the beginning of each voyage, the office of the harbor master is auctioned. The office is important, as only the harbor master 
can decide which wares will be loaded and where the punts will sail from, giving some advantages over others. The harbor 
master is also the only one able to buy a new share as an investment in the future.
Once the harbor master has executed the duties of his office, all players hire accomplices to help them earn money on the 
 voyage.
At the end of each voyage, players receive profits for successful accomplices. Wares, which reach MANILA, rise in value on the 
black market. The game ends as soon as one ware value reaches 30. The player who has accumulated the largest fortune is the 
winner.

The game is played in several consecutive voyages.
Each voyage is played in the following order:
1. The office of harbor master is auctioned
2. The office of harbor master is performed.
3. Place accomplices and move punts by rolling dice (= “place and roll dice”)
4. Profit distribution
5. Ware values rise
No player may bid more than he is able to pay. A player may take a loan by encumbering any of 
his shares, to get the money he needs to pay his bid (see “Take out a loan”).
For the first voyage, the oldest player starts the auction with a bid of at least 1 PESO (or passes).
For subsequent voyages, the player who was harbor master for the previous voyage, starts the
bidding. If the starting player passes, his left neighbor begins, and so forth around the table, in
clockwise order.
The auction continues in clockwise order, with each player, on his turn, passing or offering a
higher bid. Once a player has passed in the auction for a voyage, he cannot re-enter the bidding
at a later point. The auction continues until all have passed, but one. This player has won the
auction. He pays his last bid amount to the harbor cash box and is now the new harbor master.
If no player bids in the auction, the previous harbor master retains the office for this voyage.
The harbor master …
a) … may buy a share
b) … has to decide which loads will be transported
c) … has to place the punts in the water.
The player who
bids highest,
becomes the
harbor master.
• Each player takes 30 PESOS. Place the remaining coins as a harbor cash box next to the game 
board.
• Each player takes three accomplices in his color.
Place unused figures back in the box
Playing the game:
1. The office of harbor master is auctioned
2. The harbor master performs the duties of his office:
Preparation:
fig. 2b: the black market
table at the beginning of
the game.
fig. 2a: sort the remaining shares by ware and
place them next the board as shown.
(example)
Each player takes
• 30 PESOS
• 2 shares
• 3 accomplices
(game for 3: 
4 accomplices)
When playing with just three, each player takes four accomplices.
Find other rule changes for playing with three in red on page 3.
Each player gets 2 of the well shuffled shares and looks at them without showing them to the 
other players. Now sort all remaining shares by ware and place them next to the game board 
(see fig. 2a).
• Place the four value indicators on space "0" of the black market table, matching their colors to 
those on the table (see fig. 2b).
• Place the punts, ware loads, and dice next to the game board.

loads 3 wares and
leaves one ashore.
determines the start
spaces for the
3 punts.
The sum of the
start spaces = 9.
No punt may start
past space 5.
b) Load goods
Now the harbor master loads one ware
on each of the three punts. It is his
decision alone, which ware he does not
load (see fig. 4).
fig. 4: the harbor
master decided not
to load silk.
Alternate
accomplice placing
and punt moving
(total of 3 each).
Game for 3: before
the first punt
moving, play
2 accomplice placing
rounds (=4 placing
rounds +3 moving
rounds).
Accomplice placing
round:
each player places
1 accomplice.
starts.
a) Buy a share
The harbor master may take a desired share from the game board. He pays the cost to the harbor 
cash box and places the share face-down with his unencumbered shares.
The cost of a share is determined by the current value of the ware on the black market. It is at 
least 5 PESOS.
fig. 3: a nutmeg share currently costs 10
PESOS and a silk share costs 20 PESOS.
Ginseng currently has no value on the black
market, but the harbor master would pay 5
PESOS for a share, as he would for a jade
share, which is currently valued at 5 PESOS
on the black market.
may buy 1 share
Price=value of
that ware on black
market table,
but, at least,
5 PESOS.
This phase has three accomplice placing rounds, each followed by a punt movement round. After
the first accomplice placing round comes the first punt movement round, and so forth.
Place accomplices:
Beginning with the harbor master, and continuing in clockwise order, each player takes turns
placing one of his accomplices on any vacant accomplice space and pays the amount shown on
that space to the harbor cash box (exception: insurance, see below).
At any time, a player may choose to refrain from placing an accomplice on his turn. However,
once a player has done so, he may place no further accomplices for this voyage.
If a player has no money and is also not able to take out a loan he may place accomplices as 
“blind passengers” for free (see “take out a loan” and “blind passenger”).
3. Place accomplices and move punts
In a game with three players there are 4 accomplice placing rounds and 3 punt movement rounds: after the
first accomplice placing round, there is a second accomplice placing round. Then comes the first punt
movement round. After that, the rounds alternate as in the four-player game.
c) Place punts in water
Now the harbor master is to place the three punts in the water, thus determining their starting 
positions. For each punt there is a sea route on the board with spaces numbered from 0 to 13, 
ending at the destination port.
• The harbor master places each punt on one of the sea routes, but never two punts on the same 
sea route.
• When he places a punt, he places it on one of the start positions on the sea route selected, 
 numbered 0 to 5. He must not place any punt in a position higher than space 5 (spaces 0 to 5 are 
marked to reinforce this rule).
• Note, however, that the sum of the numbers of the 3 start position MUST always add to exactly 9 
(see fig. 5a and 5b).
fig. 5b: the harbor
master may place a punt
on space 0, if the sum of
the other two positions
(e.g. 4+5) is equal to 9.
fig. 5a: when one
sums the 3 start
positions, they
must always equal
9. For example, one
punt can begin in
space 4, another in
space 3, so the last
would have to be in
space 2.
the three sea routes

WHERE TO PLACE ACCOMPLICES?
Players can deploy their accomplices on the following places:
Wares (on board the punts):
For ginseng, silk, and nutmeg, there are three accomplice spaces, and for jade there are four
accomplice spaces.
When a player wants to place an accomplice on one of the 3 loaded wares, he should choose the
lowest-priced empty space of the desired ware. Each player may place several accomplices on the
same ware punt, if the space is available on his turns. Punts already docking at the port cannot
take any new accomplices.
➙ The goal of this action: to have accomplices on a punt that reaches the port destination on 
this voyage, so the player can share in the profits (see: phase III: “profit distribution”).
➙ The risk of this action: if the chosen punt does not reach the destination port, there is no 
 profit to share, and the player gets no return on his accomplice investment.
Port and shipyard spaces:
At each port and shipyard space, there is an accomplice place. In addition to the
punt placements, players may deploy their accomplices on any vacant port or
shipyard space. As with the ware spaces on the punts, a player can deploy several
accomplices on port and shipyard spaces, when they are vacant on his turns.
➙ The goal of this action: to have accomplices on spaces where punts arrive at the 
end of the voyage, so the player can earn the payment shown above the 
 deployment space (see phase III: “profit distribution”).
➙ The risk of this action: if no punt reaches the chosen port, the player gets no 
return on his accomplice investment.
Pirate spaces:
In the pirate boat are two accomplice spaces. The first to use the pirate boat will take the front 
space and become the captain. If the captain space is occupied, the player places his accomplice
in the second space. One player can have accomplices in both spaces.
➙ The goal of this action: the pirates may board a punt that ends the second movement round 
on space 13 and may plunder any punt that ends its movement on the third round on space 
13 (see “here come the pirates”).
➙ The risk of this action: if no punt reaches space 13, the player gets no return on his 
 accomplice investment.
Pilot spaces:
The pilot island offers two accomplice spaces. When a player places an accomplice on one of
these (vacant) spaces, he chooses between the “large” one, which is more expensive, but offers a
better return or the “small” one.
➙ The goal of this action: before the third round of punt movement, the pilots have an 
 opportunity to aid or hinder punts that have not yet reached their ports. Punts that reached 
their ports before round three cannot be affected by the pilots (see “the pilots do their 
thing”).
➙ The risk of this action: the exercised influence does not achieve the desired goal.
Insurance:
The insurance office has an accomplice space. The player who places an accomplice here, pays
nothing, but immediately receives an “insurance” payment of 10 PESOS from the harbor cash
➙ The goal of this action: if, after three movment rounds, no punt lands at the shipyard, the 
player keeps the 10 PESOS insurance payment.
➙ The risk of this action: for each punt that lands at the shipyard, the insurance agent must pay 
the repair cost. In addition, the insurance agent takes over the profit disbursement to 
 accomplices on those spaces (see: “the insurance pays”)
loaded punts
shipyard
pirate boat
pilot island
insurance

Here come the pirates
When a punt stops on space 13 at the end of a movement round, the pirates attack the punt.
a) Punts standing after the second movement round on space 13, are boarded by the pirates.
b) Punts standing after the third movement round on space 13, are plundered by the pirates.
A punt which arrives on space 13 other than at the end of a movement round, but by pilot 
 influence, is not affected by the pirates (see “the pilots do their thing”). If there are no pirates on 
the pirate boat at the time of the punt‘s arrival on space 13, the punt is not attacked.
Punts which move
past space 13
arrive at the
destination port.
Successful voyage
Each punt which travels past space 13, 
 reaches its destination port of MANILA. The 
first punt to reach MANILA is placed in port 
space A, the second is placed in port 
space B, and the third is placed in port 
space C (see fig. 7). No port space can get 
2 punts.
fig. 7: The jade punt reached 
MANILA in the second round 
and now occupies port 
space A. In the third round, 
the other two punts reach 
MANILA. They are placed on 
port spaces B and C, without 
regard to which is placed 
where. If one of these two 
had not reached MANILA, 
port space C would remain 
vacant, and this punt would 
be placed on shipyard space 
Shipwrecks A.
Shipwrecks
Punts, which fail to reach MANILA after 
three movement rounds, are damaged and 
must be placed in the shipyard (exception: 
punts which end movement in rounds 
2 or 3 on space 13 are affected by the 
 pirates; see “here come the pirates”) and 
may or may not be placed in the shipyard. 
When only one punt fails to reach MANILA, 
it is placed on shipyard space A. 
A second punt failing to reach MANILA is 
placed on shipyard space B. If all three 
punts fail to reach MANILA, the last is 
placed on shipyard space C (see fig. 8). 
No shipyard space can get 2 punts.
fig. 8: Only the silk punt 
arrived in MANILA. The 
other two punts failed to 
reach MANILA, or even 
space 13. They are both 
placed in the shipyard, in 
spaces A and B.
NOTE: immediately before the third movement round, the pilots have the opportunity to influence 
movement of the punts (see “the pilots do their thing”)!
Punts that do not
reach space 13
after 3 moving
rounds are placed
in the shipyard.
There are 3 spaces
each (A, B, and C)
in the port and
shipyard for punts
that land there.
To board the punt, the player moves his pirate to a vacant space on the punt. If there is no 
vacant space in the punt, it cannot be boarded (see fig. 9).
The pirate captain (forward space in the pirate boat) may board first. After he boards (or refrains 
from boarding), the second pirate may board. The choice to board or not is solely the choice of 
each pirate in order. Each may choose to remain on the pirate boat in the hopes of later plunder 
(see “plunder”).
a) boarded by pirates (see fig. 9)
The harbor master rolls the three dice, 
whose colors correspond to the loaded 
wares. Then he moves each of the three 
punts – in any order – along its sea route the 
number of spaces shown on its die 
(see fig. 6).
• When a punt reaches its destination port with 
movement points remaining, these are 
 “discarded”. In no other case, may the harbor 
master choose to “discard” a punt‘s movement 
points.
• Each punt must move only on its sea route. 
Sea route changes are not allowed.
• Punts may not lose or exchange wares along 
the way.
fig. 6: The brown 
“nutmeg die” shows a 4. 
Therefore, the harbor master 
moves the punt loaded with 
nutmeg 4 spaces in the 
 direction of its port 
 destination.
He moves the silk punt 
2 spaces forward.
The jade junk reaches its port 
destination with 2 movement 
points remaining. These are 
 discarded.
Movement rounds:
Punt moving
round:
rolls the 3 dice
that match the
wares loaded on
the 3 punts and
moves the punts
forward based on
the die rolls.
Punts stopping on
space 13 are
boarded or
plundered by the
pirates.
Board: Only after
the second
movement round!
Pirates may be
placed on a vacant
space of the
punts.

The pilots do their thing
At the end of the last accomplice placing round (just before the last punt movement round) the 
pilots may use their influence on the movement of the punts. Pilots may not influence punts which 
have already reached MANILA.
• The “small pilot” (on the space costing 2 PESOS) goes first. He may move one punt either forward 
or backward by one space.
• Next, the “large pilot” takes his turn. He may move one punt up to two spaces or two punts each 
by one space. He decides for each separately whether to move it forward or backward. Also, he may 
move the punt the small pilot moved or not, as he chooses (see fig. 11)
When a pilot moves a punt past space 13, it has arrived at its port destination and he places it on 
the next vacant port space.
When a pilot moves a punt to space 13, nothing happens (the pirates only attack immediately after 
the movement round).
• The harbor master may only roll the dice to move the punts in 
the third movement round after he has given the pilots the 
opportunity to execise their actions.
• Each pilot decides independently whether to use his influence 
or not. Thus, for example, the small pilot can choose to refrain, 
while the large pilot use his influence.
fig 11: The last accomplice placing round has ended. Before the last 
punt movement round, the harbor master pauses to give the pilots the 
opportunity to use their influence. The “small pilot” chooses to move 
the nutmeg punt forward by one space. Because the nutmeg punt has 
now arrived in MANILA, the small pilot places it on the next vacant 
port space and the ”large pilot” will not be able to move it. The 
“large pilot” decides to move the jade punt backwards one space and 
the ginseng punt one space forward to space 13. As the pirates are not 
now active, they cannot attack the ginseng punt.
As soon as all punts have been moved in the third punt movement round and all punts have been 
placed on port or shipyard spaces, the profits are now paid.
Note: players can increase the power of pirates somewhat by using the rule variant described at
the end of these rules.
fig. 9: After the second 
 movement round, the jade and 
ginseng punts are both on 
space 13. The pirate captain 
decides to board. As there is 
only vacant space on the 
 ginseng punt, he boards here. 
There is no further vacant 
space on either punt, so the 
second pirate moves forward 
to become the pirate captain.
When the pirate captain boards a 
punt, the second pirate 
 immediately becomes the pirate 
captain, moving to the forward 
position in the pirate boat. If 
there are several punts standing 
on space 13 after the second 
movement round, the pirates are 
free to choose which, if any punts 
to board, but must board vacant 
spaces only.
Plunder: Only
after the third
movement round!
The pirates share
the profits of the
wares plundered.
If the second
pirate remains
alone in the pirate
boat, he becomes
the new pirate
captain.
The pirate captain
decides to send
the plundered
punts to the
harbor or to the
shipyard.
Before the 3rd
movement round:
• the “small pilot”
moves 1 punt by
one space
• the “big pilot”
moves 1 punt
(2 spaces) or
2 punts (each by
one space)
b) Plunder (see fig. 10)
Each punt, which stands on space 13 after the third movement round, falls completely into the 
hands of the pirates:
• All accomplices on the punt are removed and returned to their players.
• The pirates receive the income for each plundered punt from the harbor cash box 
(see chapter 3: “profit distribution”).
• Now, the pirate captain decides for each plundered punt separately whether it lands at the port 
or the shipyard. If he chooses the port for a punt, the value of the plundered ware rises in 
value (see “ware value rising“).
fig. 10: The nutmeg punt stands on 
space 13 after the third movement 
round. All accomplices on the punt 
are returned to their players with no 
profit. The pirates share the profit 
from the nutmeg punt of 24 PESOS 
(12 PESOS each) from the harbor 
cash box.
When a punt stands on space 
13 after the third movement 
round and there are no pirates 
on the pirate boat, it is placed 
on the next vacant port space. 
and is treated as if it arrived at 
the destination port.

• PORT/SHIPYARD ACCOMPLICES earn a 
profit only if a punt landed at the port 
or shipyard space where they were 
deployed (see fig. 13a, 13b). Above the 
deployment spaces are printed the 
amounts of profit. The profit for port 
spaces is paid, in each case, from the 
harbor cash box. The profit for the 
 shipyard spaces is paid by the insurance 
agent (if there is no insurance agent, it 
is paid by the harbor cash box). All 
accomplices deployed to a vacant port or 
shipyard space go home empty-handed.
fig. 13a: Because 
2 punts reached the 
destination port, the 
ORANGE player earns 
6 PESOS and the RED 
player earns 8 PESOS. 
The BLUE player bet 
on all 3 punts reaching 
MANILA, but lost, so 
he earns nothing for 
this accomplice.
fig. 13b: Only the 
 ginseng punt landed at 
the shipyard, earning 
the BLUE player 
6 PESOS. The BLACK 
player has an 
 accomplice there, but 
he placed him on the 
space for two punts 
landing (shipyard 
space B) in the 
 shipyard, so he gets 
nothing.
The insurance pays
Each punt, which lands in the shipyard, is damaged. To repair the damage, the insurance agent must
pay (see fig. 14). He pays the insurance
• to the player who deployed an ACCOMPLICE to the shipyard space where the damaged punt 
 landed.
• to the harbor cash box, if no ACCOMPLICE was placed on the shipyard space where the punt 
 landed.
The insurance payment is like a profit, which is paid according to the number printed above the shi-
pyard space where the punt landed (see fig. 14).
fig. 14: For both 
punts that landed in 
the shipyard, the 
insurance agent 
must pay for 
repairs. He pays 
6 PESOS to the 
BLUE player and 
8 PESOS to the 
ORANGE player. 
However, as the 
BLUE player is the 
insurance agent, he 
pays only the 
8 PESOS to the 
ORANGE player.
The insurance agent player may first take his profits for 
the voyage before paying for the punt repairs. If he does 
not have enough cash to make the payments, he must 
take out loans to cover the missing amounts 
(see “take out a loan”).
If he cannot raise enough cash, even with loans, to pay 
the entire amount, he pays all that he can and the rest 
comes from the harbor cash box. The player does not 
have to repay the amount paid by the harbor cash box in 
this case.
fig. 12: The jade punt 
arrived in MANILA with 
3 accomplices on board. 
Therefore, each 
 accomplice receives a 
third of the 36 PESO 
profit. The red player 
gets 24 PESOS, as he has 
2 accomplices on the 
jade punt; the yellow 
player gets 12 PESOS for 
his accomplice on the 
jade punt.
Now the players who placed their accomplices successfully will receive the profits from their
successes:
• PIRATE ACCOMPLICES earn a profit only if a punt ended movement in space 13 at the end of 
punt movement round 3. The pirates plunder these punts, dividing the profits (value printed on 
ware load) equally between them. If only one pirate is on the pirate boat, he receives the entire 
profits from the plundered punts. All accomplices on the plundered punts are returned empty-
handed to their players (see fig. 10).
• LOADED WARE ACCOMPLICES earn profits only if their punt arrived in the destination port of 
MANILA. On each ware load is the amount of profit to be earned, which the accomplices share 
equally among themselves (see fig. 12). All accomplices on a punt that was damaged and sent to 
the shipyard, go home empty-handed.
4. Profit distribution
A. Pirates receive
the profits of
plundered punts
and share them
equally
B. Loaded ware
profits of the ware
arriving in the
destination port
C. Port
a profit if a punt
landed at the port
space where they
were deployed
D. Shipyard
a profit if a punt
landed at the
shipyard space
where they were
deployed.
The insurance 
agent pays. If 
there is no
insurance agent, 
box pays.
The insurance
agent also pays
for the repair of
punts on shipyard
spaces where no
accomplice has
been placed. This
amount he pays to
Profits:
A. Pirates receive

Take out a loan
Each player who has unencumbered shares, can, at any time, take out a loan from the harbor cash 
box, by encumbering one or more of his unencumbered shares. To indicate the share is encumbered, 
the player places it apart from his unencumbered shares face-down in his play area. For each share, 
the harbor cash box will loan 12 PESOS. When a player must make a payment and does not have 
enough cash, he MUST take out a loan, so that he may settle his commitments. When a player does 
not have enough cash and potential money from unencumbered shares,
• he may not bid for the office of harbor master with an amount higher than he could raise with his 
current cash and available loans.
• he must take all the loans he can and pay for the repairs as insurance agent until he has no more 
unencumbered shares– the remaining amounts will be paid by the harbor cash box (see “the 
insurance pays”).
Each encumbered share may be made unencumbered by repaying the loan, plus interest, for a total 
of 15 PESOS to the harbor cash box. The player places the now unencumbered share face up back 
with the other unencumbered shares in his play area. He can, of course, use the share again to take 
out a loan, if necessary.
At game end, the players must pay back 15 PESOS for each still encumbered share in their play 
areas (see “game end and the winner”).
Blind Passenger
When a player has no cash (and has no unencumbered shares with which to take out loans), he beco-
mes a “Blind Passenger”, he may place an accomplice as a blind passenger on any vacant place of any 
punt for no cost. All other spaces are not available to him until he has cash once more. If after 
adding all cash and loans, the player still comes short of paying for the least expensive space, he can 
still place his accomplice on this space but must pay all his remaining cash to the harbor cash box.
Variant: the pirates are allowed to board a punt even if there are no vacant spaces on 
them. The boarding player removes one of the accomplices on the punt, returning him 
to his player, and puting his pirate in his place. If, however, there are vacant spaces on 
any punt on space 13, these must be filled first by the pirates. Only when there are no 
vacant spaces can a pirate displace an accomplice on a punt. If both pirates board the 
same punt, the second pirate may not displace the pirate captain who just boarded the 
punt.
Author: Franz-Benno Delonge
Illustration: Victor Boden
Translation: Sybille & Bruce Whitehill "Word for Wort"
All wares, which were delivered on this voyage to the destination port of MANILA, rise in value. To do 
this, move the value markers for these wares on the black market table up by one space (e.g. from 
0 to 5). Wares that did not reach the harbor remain the same in value.
Next, to prepare for the next voyage, all punts and ware loads are placed at the edge of the game 
board. The players take all their accomplices back. The next voyage begins with the auction of the 
office of the harbor master.
5. Ware values rise
As soon as the value marker for at least one ware reaches 30 on the black market table, the game ends. 
Each player counts his cash (PESOS) and adds to this the value of his shares (the value of the ware as 
shown on the black market table). From this sum, he subtracts 15 PESOS for each encumbered share 
(loan not yet repaid). This final total is the players FORTUNE.
The player with the highest fortune is the most successful merchant in MANILA, and the winner of the 
game!
Game end & the winner:
To encumber one 
share
= 12 Pesos from
Pay back
Encumbered share
= minus 15 Pesos
at game end.
A player who has
no cash can place
an accomplice for
no cost (“blind
passenger”).
Wares, which
reach the port,
rise in value up by
one space on the
black market
table.
Game end: One
ware reaches the
value of 30.
Winner: The
player with the
highest fortune
(pesos plus unen-
cumbered shares 
minus encumbered 
shares).

Trafics et spéculations en Extrême-Orient 
pour 3 à 5 pirates dès 10 ans.
En 1821, la « Isla Felipina » est sous le joug des colons espagnols. Les galions quittent le port d‘Acapulco chargés 
d‘or en direction de Manilla. Là-bas, le précieux métal est échangé contre des épices, de la soie, du chanvre, de la 
porcelaine et bien d‘autres trésors d‘Extrême-Orient.
Mais à l‘ombre du pouvoir colonial, des marchands locaux s‘obstinent à mettre en place un commerce maritime 
secret entre les archipels avoisinants et le continent asiatique. Des bateaux chargés de muscade, de jade, de 
ginseng et de soie quittent Manilla. Cependant, aucun n‘est sûr d‘arriver à bon port, certains navires auraient 
besoin d‘une remise en état et les capitaines semblent n‘être que de pauvres moussaillons ! De plus, des pirates 
essayaient de piller les cargaisons. 
Une bourse du marché noir se met en place par de gros paris pris sur les bateaux qui arrivent au port. Pour 
tenter de protéger leurs bateaux, les marchands envoient des complices pour corrompre les pilotes. Les figures 
les plus respectées n‘hésitent pas à engager un bateau pirate pour profiter secrètement de la « tragique » perte 
de marchandises qu‘ils regrettent ensuite publiquement : « VAYA CON DIOS … »
MATÉRIEL
Ill. 1 :
1 plateau de jeu
3 bateaux
Avant de jouer à ce jeu pour la première fois, 
montez les 3 bateaux comme suit:
20 pions en couleurs
20 cartes actions 
(5 cartes par 
marchandise)
4 cargaisons de mar-
chandises précieuses 
(tuiles)
4 dés de couleur
4 marqueurs de valeur 
(à la couleur des 
4 marchandises)
79 PESOS, pièces de monnaie 
de la devise des Philippines
 muscade 
soie 
ginseng 
jade
petit 
pilote
pirates
chantier 
naval
grand 
pilote
DÉROULEMENT DU JEU (RÉSUMÉ)
routes 
maritimes
assurance
marché noir
Les EXPEDITIONS MARITIMES (tours de jeu) se succèdent. Cette phase du jeu est composée de 3 tours de pose et de 3 tours de 
dés, joués alternativement. A chaque expédition, 3 bateaux mettent le cap sur le port de Manilla. Au début de chaque expédition, 
cet argent vous permet d‘acheter aux enchères la fonction de CAPITAINE DU PORT, qui est le seul à pouvoir acquérir de 
 nouvelles actions. De plus, celui-ci choisit les marchandises qui peuvent être chargées à bord des bateaux et donne l‘avantage de 
départ à chaque bateau. Une fois que le capitaine du port est désigné, les joueurs utilisent leur argent pour effectuer certaines 
actions avec l‘aide de leurs COMPLICES.
A la fin de chaque expédition, les joueurs gagnent de l‘argent pour les complices les mieux placés. Les marchandises qui 
parviennent au port voient leur valeur augmenter. Le jeu est terminé dès que la valeur d‘une marchandise atteint 30.
Le vainqueur est le joueur qui possède alors la plus grosse fortune.

Le joueur qui mise 
le plus devient le 
capitaine du port.
Chaque expédition maritime se déroule en 4 phases dans l‘ordre suivant :
I – Mise aux enchères et exercice de la fonction de capitaine du port
II – Placement des complices et jet de dés pour les bateaux
III – Distribution des revenus
IV – Augmentation de la valeur des marchandises
L‘expédition est ensuite terminée. La fonction de capitaine du port est remise aux enchères pour 
l‘expédition suivante …
DÉROULEMENT DU JEU
Chaque joueur 
reçoit : 
30 PESOS
 2 actions, 
 3 complices.
Pour les parties 
à 3 joueurs, chaque 
joueur reçoit 
4 complices.
PRÉPARATION DU JEU
Ill. 2b : la situation du 
marché noir au début de 
la partie.
Ill. 2a : les actions non distribuées aux joueurs sont posées 
faces visibles à coté du plateau.
(exemple)
1. Chaque joueur reçoit 30 PESOS, les pièces restantes sont placées à côté du plateau de jeu. Elles 
forment la CAISSE DU PORT.
2. Chaque joueur reçoit 3 complices de même couleur. Les pions restants sont remis dans la boîte.
Les 4 complices sont utilisés uniquement pour les parties à 3 joueurs.
3. Parmi les 20 actions, on en prend 3 de chaque marchandise et on les mélange. Chaque joueur 
reçoit alors 2 actions de ce paquet qu‘il est le seul à pouvoir regarder. Les actions non distrbuées 
sont triées par type de marchandises et posées faces visibles à côté du plateau de jeu. Le nombre 
d‘actions disponibles pour chaque marchandise est mis à la vue de chaque joueur (voir ill.2a).
4. Les marqueurs de valeur sont posés sur la case « 0 » de couleur correspondante sur le 
« tableau des cours du marché noir » (voir ill. 2b).
5. Les bateaux, les cargaisons de marchandises et les dés sont posés à 
côté du plateau de jeu.
Un joueur ne peut pas faire d‘offre supérieure à ce qu‘il peut payer, mais il peut mettre en gage 
des actions (et ainsi prendre un crédit) pour payer son offre (voir paragraphe « Prendre un 
crédit »).
Pour commencer le premier tour de jeu, le joueur le plus âgé lance la première offre (au moins 
1 PESO). Lors des tours suivants, c‘est le capitaine du port du tour précédent qui ouvre l‘enchère. 
S‘il ne peut ou s‘il ne veut pas faire d‘offre, c‘est son voisin de gauche qui débute alors l‘enchère et 
ainsi de suite.
Chacun leur tour, les joueurs font une offre. Chaque joueur doit renchérir sur à l‘offre précédente 
sinon, il passe. Un joueur qui passe son tour ne peut revenir dans l‘enchère par la suite et faire une 
nouvelle offre. Le joueur dont l‘offre est la plus élevée devient le capitaine du port. Il paye la 
somme misée à la caisse du port.
Si aucun joueur ne fait d‘offre, le capitaine du port du tour précédent reste en fonction.
PHASE I : MISE AUX ENCHÈRES ET EXERCICE DE LA FONCTION DE 
CAPITAINE DU PORT
A chaque tour de jeu, la fonction de capitaine du port est attribuée à un joueur.
Intérêt d'exercer la fonction de capitaine du port :
 
• il peut acheter une action,
 
• il détermine quelles cargaisons de marchandises vont être transportées,
 
• il détermine la position de départ des bateaux,
 
• il pose le premier complice (en phase II).
MISE AUX ENCHÈRES DE LA FONCTION DE CAPITAINE DE PORT.

LE CAPITAINE DE PORT EXERCE SES FONCTIONS
port charge 
3 marchandises et 
en laisse 1 à terre.
port détermine la 
position de départ 
des 3 bateaux
 
Somme des cases 
de départ = 9
Aucun bateau de 
peut commencer 
au-delà de la 
case 5.
On alterne les 
tours de pose et 
les tours de dés 
(3 fois)
A 3 joueurs : avant le 
premier tour de dés, 
il y a 2 tours de pose
Tour de pose : 
 chaque joueur pose 
un complice, le 
 capitaine du port 
commence.
a) Acheter des actions
Dans un premier temps, le capitaine du port décide s‘il veut acheter des actions. Il choisit alors 
l‘action qu‘il souhaite. Pour cela, le joueur paye à la caisse du port que la valeur actuelle de la mar-
chandise au marché noir en PESOS. Une action dont la valeur est « 0 » coûte un minimum de 5 
PESOS au capitaine du port (voir ill. 3).
Ill. 3 :
Une action de muscade coûte 10 PESOS.
Une action de soie coûte 20 PESOS.
L‘action de ginseng n‘a pas de valeur sur le 
 marché noir, mais coûte quand même 5 PESOS, 
comme l‘action de jade qui a une valeur de 
5 PESOS au marché noir.
port peut acheter 
1 action au cours 
du marché, mais le 
prix minimum 
reste fixé à 5 
PESOS.
Cette phase du jeu est composée de 3 tours de pose et de 3 tours de dés, joués alternativement : on 
joue un tour de pose puis un tour de dés, etc.
Déroulement d‘un tour de pose
En commençant par le capitaine, les joueurs posent tour à tour un de leurs complices sur une case 
inoccupée de leur choix et payent à la caisse du port la somme indiquée sur cette case 
(exception : Assurance, voir plus loin).
Un joueur qui renonce à poser un de ses complices ne pourra le poser lors du tour de pose suivant.
Un joueur qui n‘a plus d‘argent et qui ne peut pas prendre de crédit peut- en tant que 
« passager clandestin » – poser un COMPLICE de façon exceptionnelle et gratuite (cf. paragraphes 
« prendre un crédit » et « passager clandestin »). 
PHASE II : PLACEMENT DES COMPLICES ET JET DE DÉS POUR LES 
BATEAUX 
Remarque : Une partie à 3 joueurs comporte 4 tours de pose et 3 tours de dés. On effectue successivement les 2 
premiers tours de pose. Ensuite, à lieu le premier tour de dés. On alterne les tours jusqu‘au dernier tour de pose 
(4ème) et dernier tour de dés (3ème).
b) Charger les marchandises
C‘est la deuxième « action administrative » 
du capitaine. Il charge une marchandise sur 
chacun des 3 bateaux. Il décide ou non ou 
non telle ou telle autre marchandise 
(voir ill. 4).
Ill. 4 : le capitaine du 
port a décidé de ne 
pas charger de soie.
c) Placer les bateaux
Le capitaine du port met les bateaux à l‘eau et détermine leur position de départ :
• Chaque bateau doit suivre une „route maritime“composée de cases de « 0 » à « 13 » dont l‘arrivée 
est le port de destination.
• Le capitaine du port place chacun des bateaux sur la route de son choix (il ne peut y avoir 
 plusieurs bateaux sur la même route).
• Pour chaque bateau, le capitaine du port choisit une case départ parmi les cases de « 0 » à « 5 » 
sur sa route.
• La somme des 3 positions de départ doit toujours être exactement égale à 9 (voir ill. 5a & 5b).
Ill. 5b : Si un bateau est 
placé sur la case 
« 0 » alors les deux 
autres bateaux doivent 
obligatoirement être 
 placés sur les cases 5 et 4. 
Aucun bateau ne peut 
prendre son départ sur 
une case supérieure à la 
case 5.
Ill. 5a : La somme des 
3 positions doit être 
égale à 9. On peut, 
par exemple, placer 
les bateaux sur les 
cases 4, 3 et 2. Il est 
interdit d‘avoir un 
placement de départ 
dont la somme des 
3 positions de départ 
serait inférieure ou 
 supérieure à 9.
routes maritimes

Où poser les complices ?
On peut poser des complices sur les cases suivantes :
Sur les cases Marchandises à bord des bateaux : 
3 emplacements pour les cargaisons de ginseng, de soie et de muscade. 
4 emplacements pour les cargaisons de jade.
Lorsqu‘un joueur veut placer un de ses complices sur une des 3 marchandises chargées, il le fait 
sur l‘emplacement libre le plus avantageux pour la marchandise choisie. Au cours des tours de 
pose, chaque joueur peut poser plusieurs de ses complices sur un même bateau.
➙ But de cette action : Après avoir lancé 3 fois les dés, si le bateau atteint le port de destination, les complices 
se partagent les bénéfices. (cf. phase III : « Distribution des revenus »).
➙ Risque de cette action : si le bateau n‘atteint pas le port d‘arrivée, l‘argent investi est perdu.
Sur les cases du port et sur les cases chantier naval:
Chaque joueur dispose d‘un emplacement dans le port et le chantier naval pour y 
placer un complice. Il y place un complice sur un emplacement inoccupé de son 
choix. Au cours des tours de pose, chaque joueur peut placer ses complices dans les 
ports et/ou chantiers navals.
➙ But de cette action : Après avoir lancé 3 fois les dés, si un bateau arrive au niveau de la case 
sur laquelle un joueur a placé un complice, alors ce joueur gagne la somme indiquée par la 
case (cf. phase III : « Distribution des revenus »).
➙ Risque de cette action : si aucun bateau n‘arrive au niveau cette case sur laquelle est placé un 
complice, l‘argent investi est perdu.
Sur les cases Pirates:
Sur le bateau pirate (dessiné sur le plateau) figurent deux emplacements pour des pirates.
Pour charger un complice à bord du bateau pirate, on doit le placer sur la « case avant » du 
bateau. Le pirate est alors appelé le « CAPITAINE DES PIRATES ». 
Si cette case avant est occupée, le joueur pose son complice sur la case inoccupée. 
Remarque : Au cours des tours de pose, un même joueur peut occuper les deux cases du bateau 
pirate avec ses complices.
➙ But de cette action (bateaux se trouvant exactement sur la case 13) :
Au 2ème tour de dé, ces bateaux peuvent être abordés par les pirates. Au 3ème tour de dé, ces bateaux peuvent 
être pillés par les pirates (cf. paragraphe « Case 13 : les pirates »).
➙ Risque de cette action: si aucun bateau n‘atteint la case 13, les pirates ne peuvent rien gagner. 
Sur les cases de pilotage
L‘ « ÎLE DE PILOTAGE » offre deux emplacements dont le coût varie d‘un emplacement à l‘autre. 
Un joueur place un complice « pilote » sur l‘un des deux emplacements (si toutefois ils sont 
libres). Le complice placé sur l‘emplacement le plus cher sera appelé « chef-pilote ». 
➙ But de cette action : Juste avant le 3ème tour de dés, les pilotes peuvent influencer le déplacement des 
bateaux. Ils essaient de gêner ou de faciliter l‘arrivée d‘un bateau au port de destination. Les bateaux qui se 
trouvent déjà au port ne peuvent plus être déplacés (cf. paragraphe « Les pilotes s‘en mêlent »). 
➙ Risque de cette action : L‘action peut ne pas avoir l‘effet escompté.
Sur la case Assurance
Le bâtiment d‘assurance ne dispose que d‘un seul emplacement. Lorsqu‘un joueur y place 
un complice, il devient un « agent d‘assurance ». La caisse du port lui verse immédiatement 
10 PESOS.
➙ But de cette action : Au 3ème jet de dés, si aucun bateau n‘arrive au chantier naval, le joueur garde les 10 
PESOS reçus.
➙ Risque de cette action : Pour chaque bateau qui arrive au chantier naval, le joueur paie les « réparations ». 
(Voir paragraphe « L‘assurance paye »).
bateaux chargés
chantier 
naval
bateau pirate
pilotes
assurance

Les bateaux qui 
dépassent la case 
13 sont placés au 
port.
Expédition réussie
Lorsqu‘un bateau dépasse la case 13, il 
 atteint le port de Manilla et est placé sur la 
case A du port. Un 2ème bateau arrive au 
port de Manilla et est posé sur la case B. Si 
deux bateaux atteignent le port en même 
temps, la case sur laquelle ils sont posés n‘a 
pas d‘importance.
Ce n‘est que lorsque 3 bateaux arrivent au 
port de destination que la case C est 
 occupée (voir ill. 7). Ces cases ne peuvent 
être occupées par deux complices à la fois..
Ill. 7 : Le bateau de jade a 
atteint le port au 2ème tour 
de dés, la case A est donc 
occupée. 
Au 3ème jet de dés, les deux 
autres bateaux atteignent le 
port de destination. L‘un est 
placé sur la case B, l‘autre 
sur la C.
ATTENTION : juste avant le 3ème tour de dés, les pilotes effectuent leur tour de jeu 
(voir paragraphe « Les pilotes s‘en mêlent »).
Naufrage
Les bateaux qui n‘ont pas atteint le port 
après les trois tours de dés sont 
 endommagés. Ils doivent aller au chantier 
naval (exception : pour les bateaux arrivés 
sur la case 13, voir paragraphe « Case 13 : 
les pirates »).
Si un bateau n‘atteint pas le port, il est 
placé sur la case A du chantier naval, et 
ainsi de suite pour les bateaux suivants sur 
les cases B et C (voir ill. 8). 
Les cases du chantier naval ne peuvent être 
occupée deux fois.
Ill. 8 : seul le bateau chargé 
de soie a atteint le port. 
Les deux autres bateaux 
sont placés sans ordre 
d‘importance, sur les cases 
A et B du chantier naval.
Les bateaux qui 
n‘ont pas dépassé 
la case 13 après les 
3 tours de dés sont 
placés au chantier 
naval.
Les cases de port 
et de chantier 
naval sont remplies 
en commençant 
par la case 
A (puis B et C)
Case 13 : Les pirates
Si, après un jet de dés, un bateau arrive sur la case 13, il peut être attaqué par les pirates. Si, le 
bateau pirate est inoccupé, il n‘arrive rien au bateau.
Les bateaux peuvent atteindre la case 13 lors du 2ème ou du 3ème tour de dés :
a) Les bateaux qui atteindront la case 13 lors du 2ème tour de dés seront abordés.
b) Les bateaux qui atteindront la case 13 lors du 3ème tour de dés seront pillés.
Un bateau, qui atteint la case 13 lorsqu‘il est déplacé par un pilote, n‘est pas affecté par les pirates. 
Les pirates ne peuvent passer à l‘attaque dans ce cas 
(voir paragraphe : « Les pilotes s‘en mêlent »).
Le « capitaine des pirates » peut passer à l‘abordage en premier. Le 2ème pirate (s‘il y en a un) peut 
ensuite passer à l‘action. Les pirates ne peuvent renoncer de passer à l‘abordage s‘ils espèrent pou-
voir piller un bateau après le 3ème tour de dés (voir plus loin « Aborder »).
Pour passer à l‘abordage, le joueur ne peut poser son pirate que sur un emplacement libre du 
bateau attaqué.
a) Abordage (voir ill. 9)
Le capitaine du port lance les 3 dés dont les 
couleurs correspondent aux marchandises 
chargées. Il déplace ensuite les bateaux vers 
port de destination dans l‘ordre de son 
choix. Pour ce faire, il les déplace du nombre 
de cases indiquées par le dé de couleur 
 correspondante (cf. ill. 6).
1. Si un bateau atteint le port de destination, les 
déplacements restants sont perdus.
2. Chaque bateau se déplace le long de « sa » 
route, sans pouvoir en changer.
3. Il n‘est pas possible de perdre (ou d‘échanger) 
de marchandises en chemin.
Ill. 6 : le « dé marron » indique 
un 4. Le bateau qui transporte 
la muscade se déplace donc de 
4 cases en direction du port de 
 destination. 
Le bateau qui transporte la 
soie avance de 2 cases, 
 conformément au résultat du 
dé bleu. 
Le bateau de jade atteint le 
port en 4 cases. Un des points 
du dé vert « 5 » ne sont donc 
pas utilisés.
Déroulement d‘un tour de dés
Tour de dés : 
le capitaine du 
port lance les 3 dés 
correspondant aux 
3 marchandises 
 chargées et avance 
les bateaux 
 correspondant au 
chiffre obtenu.
Les pirates 
abordent ou 
pillent les bateaux 
qui arrivent sur la 
case 13.
Passer 
à l‘abordage : 
seulement après le 
2ème tour de dés !
Les pirates doivent 
occuper des cases 
libres sur les 
bateaux.

Les pilotes s‘en mêlent
A la fin du dernier tour de pose (précédent le 3ème tour de dés), les pilotes peuvent influencer le 
déplacement des bateaux. 
Remarque : Un bateau qui a déjà atteint le port de destination ne peut se déplacer.
1. Le chef-pilote (case 5) déplace un bateau de 2 cases ou deux bateaux d‘une case chacun. Il choisit 
de déplacer son bateau, soit vers le port de destination, soit dans la direction opposée.
2. Ensuite, le 2ème pilote déplace un bateau d‘une case dans la direction de son choix. Il peut choisir un 
bateau qui a déjà été déplacé par le chef-pilote (voir ill. 11). Si un pilote déplace un bateau au-delà 
de la case 13, ce bateau est posé sur la première case libre du port. Si un pilote déplace un bateau 
sur la case 13, il ne se passe rien (les pirates n‘attaquent qu‘après un tour de dés).
3. Le capitaine du port ne peut lancer les dés pour le 3ème tour de dés 
que lorsque les pilotes ont pu effectuer leurs actions.
4. Tout pilote peut renoncer à son action en choisissant de ne 
déplacer aucun bateau.
Ill. 11 : Le dernier tour de pose est terminé. Avant le 3ème tour de dés, 
les pilotes vont jouer. Le « petit pilote » décide d‘avancer le bateau de 
muscade d‘une case. Celui-ci atteint alors le port. Il ne peut pas être 
déplacé par le « grand pilote ».
Le « grand pilote » décide d‘avancer le bateau de ginseng sur la 
case 13. Le bateau n‘est pas attaqué par les pirates parce que le tour 
de dés n‘a pas encore eu lieu. Il recule ensuite le bateau de jade d‘une 
case.
La phase II prend fin au 3ème tour de dés quand les 3 bateaux se trouvent sur les cases de port ou de 
chantier naval. On distribue alors les revenus.
Si plusieurs bateaux atteignent la case 13 lors du 2ème tour de dés, chaque pirate peut choisir le 
bateau qu‘il souhaite aborder. 
Ill. 9 : Au 2ème tour de dés, les 
bateaux de jade et de ginseng on 
atteint la case 13. Le capitaine des 
pirates décide d‘aborder. Celui-ci 
est obligé d‘occuper le seul 
 emplacement libre sur le bateau de 
ginseng. Le second pirate ne peut 
 passer à l‘abordage. Il devient donc 
le chef des pirates.
S‘il n‘y a plus d‘emplacement 
libre à bord du bateau, le 
 joueur pirate ne peut pas 
aborder. Si seul le capitaine 
des pirates passe à l‘abordage, 
le deuxième pirate devient 
immédiatement le chef des 
 pirates. Il est placé sur la case 
de devant du bateau pirate.
Piller : seulement 
après le 
3ème tour de dés ! 
Si le 2ème pirate 
reste seul à bord 
du bateau pirate, il 
devient le 
capitaine
Les pirates se 
partagent la valeur 
de la (des) 
marchandise(s) 
pillée(s).
Avant le 
3ème tour de dés :
• le « petit pilote » 
déplace un bateau 
de 1 case.
• le « grand pilote » 
déplace 1 bateau 
(de 2 cases) ou 2 
bateaux (d‘une 
case chacun).
b) Pillage (voir ill. 10)
Les bateaux qui se trouvent sur la case 13 après le 3ème tour de dés, tombent aux mains des pirates.
1. Les complices qui se trouvent à bord sont retirés des bateaux et rendus à leurs propriétaires.
2. La caisse du port verse les revenus aux pirates pour les bateaux pillés 
(voir plus loin « Phase III : Distribution des revenus »).
3. Ensuite, le capitaine des pirates décide pour chaque bateau pillé, s‘il sera posé sur le port de 
 destination ou sur le chantier naval. S‘il décide de placer le bateau sur le port, la marchandise 
 chargée voit sa valeur augmenter au marché noir (voir « Phase IV : Augmentation de la valeur des 
marchandises »).
Ill. 10 : Le bateau de muscade atteint 
la case 13 après le 3ème tour de dés. 
Les complices qui se trouvent à son 
bord sont rendus à leur propriétaire. 
La valeur de la muscade est de 24 
PESOS que vont se partager les 2 
pirates (12 PESOS chacun).
4. Si, après le 3ème tour de dés, 
un bateau atteint la case 13 et 
que le bateau pirate est 
 inoccupé, le bateau est placé 
sur la première case libre du 
port.

Ill. 13a : Le joueur 
ORANGE gagne 6 PESOS, 
2 de ses bateaux ont 
 atteint le port. Le joueur 
ROUGE gagne 8 PESOS.
Le joueur BLEU ne gagne 
rien, ses 3 bateaux ne 
sont pas arrivés au port.
• Les COMPLICES placés en tant que pilotes ne gagnent pas de revenus.
Ill. 13b : Au chan-
tier naval, seul se 
trouve le bateau de 
ginseng. Le joueur 
NOIR ne gagne rien 
car son complice 
est placé sur la 
case B du chantier 
naval. 
L‘assurance paye
Chaque bateau dans le chantier naval est considéré comme étant un « sinistre » que l‘ « agent 
d‘assurance » doit régler. Le montant est réglé soit :
• au joueur qui possède un COMPLICE sur une case de chantier naval quand un bateau s‘y trouve.
• à la caisse du port s‘il n‘y a pas de COMPLICE sur une case du chantier naval où il y a un bateau. 
Le montant de l‘assurance correspond à la somme indiquée par la case du chantier naval (voir 
ill. 14)
Ill. 14 : Deux bateaux 
se trouvent au 
 chantier naval, l‘agent 
d‘assurance doit payer 
leurs réparations.
6 PESOS au joueur 
bleu et 8 PESOS au 
joueur orange.
L‘agent d‘assurance 
étant également le 
 joueur bleu, il ne paye 
que 8 PESOS au joueur 
orange. 
L‘agent d‘assurance peut encaisser ses revenus du tour 
avant de payer les sinistres. S‘il ne peut payer 
 entièrement, il fait un crédit de valeur suffisante en 
mettant en gage des actions (voir paragraphe : 
« Prendre des crédits »). 
S‘il ne peut récupérer suffisamment d‘argent, il régle 
alors ses dettes le mieux possible en mettant toutes ses 
actions en gage. La caisse du port paye ensuite les 
 sommes restantes que le joueur n‘a pas pu payer. 
 Celui-ci n‘aura pas à rembourser la caisse du port dans 
la suite du jeu.
• Les COMPLICES qui se trouvent sur des CASES 
DE PORT ou de CHANTIER NAVAL ne gagnent de 
revenus que si un bateau se trouve sur la case 
correspondante (voir ill. 13a et 13b). La case 
concernée indique la somme gagnée. 
La caisse du port paye les revenus des cases du 
port. L‘agent d‘assurance paye les revenus des 
cases du chantier naval (s‘il y en a un, sinon c‘est 
la caisse du port qui paye).
Les complices se trouvant sur une case du port 
ou du chantier naval -occupée-, ne gagnent rien.
Ill. 12 : le bateau de 
jade atteint le port 
avec 3 c omplices. La 
caisse du port paye 
donc 36 PESOS : Le 
joueur rouge qui y a 
placé 2 complices, 
reçoit 24 PESOS.
Après le 3ème tour de dés, la caisse du port verse des revenus à chaque joueur pour les complices 
bien placés :
• Les COMPLICES à bord du BATEAU PIRATE ne gagnent des revenus qui si au moins un bateau a 
atteint la case 13. Les pirates pillent ce bateau et se partagent les gains indiqués sur la carte de 
marchandise chargée par le bateau pillé. Les complices se trouvant sur ce bateau sont rendus à 
leur propriétaire (voir ill. 10).
• Les COMPLICES se trouvant sur des bateaux CARGAISONS DE MARCHANDISES ne gagnent de 
 revenus que si le bateau a atteint le port de destination. Le revenu, indiqué sur chaque carte de 
marchandises, est distribué en part égale à chacun des complices du bateau à l‘arrivée (voir ill. 
12). Les complices à bord des bateaux dans le chantier naval n‘ont pas atteint le port. Ils ne 
 gagnent rien. 
Phase III : DISTRIBUTION DES REVENUS.
A. Les pirates 
reçoivent leurs 
revenus pour les 
bateaux pillés, en 
parts égales (payés 
par la caisse du 
port).
B. Les complices 
sur les bateaux 
reçoivent la valeur 
de la marchandises 
avec laquelle ils 
ont atteint le port 
de destination 
(payés par la 
caisse du port).
C. Chaque case de 
port rapporte son 
revenu au 
complice si le 
bateau l‘a atteinte.
D. Chaque case de 
chantier naval 
 rapporte son 
 revenu au complice 
si le bateau s‘y 
trouve. 
L’agent d’assurance 
paye. S’il ne peut 
payer, c’est la cais-
se du port qui 
paye.
L‘agent d‘assurance 
paye les 
 réparations des 
bateaux qui se 
trouvent sur les 
cases de chantier 
naval non 
occupées (à la 
 caisse du port).
Revenus :
A. Les pirates
i
t l

Prendre un crédit
Un joueur peut à tout moment mettre en gage des actions à la caisse du port, pour prendre un 
 crédit. Pour ce faire, il pose devant lui l‘action face cachée.
• La caisse du port lui verse en échange 12 PESOS par action. Un joueur qui a besoin d‘argent doit 
obligatoirement prendre un crédit pour honorer ses dettes. S‘il manque d‘actions :
• il ne peut pas miser pour la fonction de capitaine du port 
• il doit payer les sinistres à hauteur de l‘argent et des actions non mises ne gage dont il dispose.
• dès qu‘il n‘aura plus d‘argent il est « pris en charge » par la caisse du port en tant qu‘agent 
d‘assurance (voir paragraphe « L‘assurance paye »)
• il peut mettre en jeu des COMPLICES en tant que « passager clandestin » 
(voir paragraphe « Passager clandestin »).
Chaque crédit peut être remboursé en échange de 15 PESOS par crédit à la caisse du port. Un joueur 
qui a remboursé un crédit reprend son action et la place avec ses actions non mises en gage. Celle-ci 
peut être remise en gage pas la suite.
Pour chaque crédit qui n‘aura pas été remboursé à la fin du jeu, le joueur qui aura pris ce crédit 
devra payer des intérêts de pénalités de 15 BAYAD (voir paragraphe « Fin du jeu et vainqueur »).
Passager clandestin
Un joueur ne possédant ni argent ni action, sera un passager clandestin. En phase II, il peut lors du 
tour de pose, placer ses COMPLICES des bateaux de transport de façon gratuite. 
Un joueur qui possède trop peu d‘argent pour placer un COMPLICE sur un emplacement libre même 
le moins cher peut poser un COMPLICE sur l‘emplacement libre d‘un bateau. Pour ce faire, il verse 
l‘argent qui lui reste à la caisse du port.
Variante de jeu : Les pirates peuvent passer à l‘abordage même quand il n’y a pas de 
cases libres à bord des bateaux attaqués. Le pirate retire du bateau attaqué un complice 
de son choix, le rend à son propriétaire puis y pose son pirate à la place. Cependant, s‘il 
reste des places libres sur le bateau attaqué, elles doivent d‘abord être occupées avant de 
pouvoir retirer des complices adverses. Si les deux pirates abordent le même bateau, le 
deuxième pirate ne peut pas prendre la place que vient d‘occuper le chef pirate.
Auteur: Franz-Benno Delonge
Illustrations: Victor Boden
Traduction: Eric Bouret
Les valeurs des marchandises, qui ont atteint le port de destination au cours de ce tour, augmentent. 
Pour cela, les marqueurs de couleurs correspondant à la valeur des marchandises sont déplacés d‘une 
case vers le haut sur le « tableau des cours du marché noir ».
Les valeurs des marchandises qui n‘ont pas atteint le port de destination restent inchangées.
Le tour de jeu se termine avec la phase IV. Pour préparer le tour suivant, les bateaux et les 
 cargaisons sont replacés à coté du plateau de jeu. Les joueurs reprennent leurs COMPLICES.
Le tour suivant peut commencer.
IV – AUGMENTATION DE LA VALEUR DES MARCHANDISES
Dès qu‘une marchandise atteint la valeur 30, le jeu se termine.
Chaque joueur compte l‘argent qu‘il possède en caisse. Il détermine ensuite la valeur de ses actions au 
tableau du marché noir. Il additionne la valeur de ses actions à son argent en caisse. Pour chaque crédit 
qu‘il n‘a pas remboursé, il faut retrancher 15 PESOS. 
Le joueur qui a amassé la plus grosse fortune, est le vainqueur du jeu.
FIN DU JEU ET VAINQUEUR
Mettre une action 
en gage (« crédit ») 
= 12 Pesos versés 
par la caisse du 
Remboursement 
Crédit non 
remboursés 
= 15 points 
perdus en fin de 
partie
Un joueur qui est 
« sur la paille » 
peut placer un 
complice sur un 
bateau de 
 transport 
(« passager 
clandestin »)
La valeur des 
marchandises qui 
ont atteint le port 
de destination 
monte d‘une case 
au marché noir.
Fin du jeu : une 
marchandise 
 atteint la valeur de 
30 Pesos
Le Vainqueur est le 
joueur qui amasse 
la plus grosse for-
tune 
(PESOS + actions 
- crédits non 
remboursés)
 

Affari e loschi traffici nell‘estremo oriente
per 3-5 giocatori dai 10 anni in su
Siamo nel 1821, da 250 anni le Isole Filippine sono sotto il giogo della corona di Spagna. I nativi, di nascosto dai 
 dominatori coloniali, commerciano con la terraferma via mare. Questi contrabbandieri stipano barconi male in arnese 
di noce moscata, giada, seta e ginseng, per poi spedirli verso MANILA, ma gli scafi scadenti affidati ad equipaggi 
 inesperti hanno ben poche possibilità di arrivare a destinazione, o sfuggire ai pirati in agguato lungo la rotta. Visti i 
rischi, non è affatto strano che queste merci spuntino prezzi esorbitanti al mercato nero di MANILA e, nonostante le 
scarse possibilità di successo, alla fine il gioco vale la candela. I contrabbandieri non lasciano nulla di intentato per 
 garantirsi il successo, e attraverso i loro complici corrompono i piloti del porto per far arrivare certi barconi e 
 ritardarne altri, si assicurano contro i danni, ed i più ricchi arrivano perfino ad arruolare i pirati per attaccare i 
 barconi e poi intascarsi di nascosto il bottino, mentre in pubblico si stracciano le vesti … „VAYA CON DIOS!“
Materiale:
fig. 1: il materiale e la descrizione della plancia
1 game board
3 barconi
All‘inizio della prima partita, riempite 
i tre barconi in questo modo:
20 pedoni complice in 
5 diversi colori
20 carte quota: 
5 per ciascuno 
dei 4 tipi di 
mercanzia
4 tessere carico, una 
per ciascun tipo di 
mercanzia
4 dadi (nei colori dei 4 tipi 
di mercanzia)
4 segnalini quotazione 
(nei colori dei 4 tipi di 
mercanzia) 
79 monete di vario taglio in 
“PESO”, la valuta filippina
 noce 
seta 
ginseng 
giada
 moscata
vice 
pilota
pirata
molo
capo 
pilota
Il gioco in breve
rotta
assicurazione
mercato nero
Il gioco si svolge in più round, chiamati VIAGGI. Durante ciascun viaggio vengono caricati 3 barconi e spediti alla volta di 
MANILA. Per prima cosa, all‘inizio di ciascun viaggio, un‘asta decide chi comanda la CAPITANERIA del porto.
Chi la comanda decide quali merci verranno caricate e da che posizione partiranno i barconi, favorendone alcuni e ostacolandone 
altri. Questo giocatore sarà anche l‘unico che potrà investire e comprare una nuova quota per questo viaggio.
Preparato il viaggio i giocatori piazzeranno, pagando, i propri COMPLICI per approfittarne il più possibile, senza dimenticare 
però che le merci che sbarcano in porto aumentano di valore al mercato nero. Il gioco termina quando una merce raggiunge il 
valore 30. Il giocatore più ricco alla fine del gioco vince la partita.

Chi offre di più 
comanda la 
 capitaneria.
Il gioco si svolge su più VIAGGI.
Ciascun viaggio si articola in 5 fasi da svolgere nel seguente ordine:
1. Asta per il comando della capitaneria di porto
2. Funzioni della capitaneria di porto.
3. Piazzamento dei complici e navigazione dei barconi (lanciando i dadi)
4. Incasso dei profitti
5. Aumento del valore
Svolgimento del gioco:
Non si può offrire all‘asta più di quanto si possiede. In qualsiasi momento un giocatore può però 
raccogliere del denaro (ottenere una “apertura di credito”) impegnando le sue quote (vedi “aper-
tura di credito”, alla fine del regolamento)
È la prima fase all‘inizio di ogni viaggio.
Durante il primo viaggio il giocatore più vecchio inizia con una offerta di 1 PESO (o passa). Nei 
 viaggi successivi chi comandava la capitaneria nel viaggio precedente fa la prima offerta. Se chi deve 
fare la prima offerta passa, tocca al giocatore alla sua sinistra, e così via in senso orario.
L‘asta prosegue in senso orario, ed ogni giocatore al suo turno deve passare o rilanciare. Chi passa è 
fuori dall‘asta per questo viaggio. L‘asta continua fino a che tutti i giocatori hanno passato tranne 
uno; questi si aggiudica l‘asta. Il vincitore paga la sua ultima offerta alla cassa del porto e prende il 
comando della capitaneria. 
Se non ci sono offerte, il comando della capitaneria resta al giocatore che lo aveva il turno 
 precedente.
1. L‘asta per il comando della capitaneria
Chi comanda la capitaneria …
a) … può comprare una quota
b) … deve decidere quali mercanzie caricare sui barconi
c) … deve posizionare i barconi sulle rotte
2. Le funzioni e i privilegi della capitaneria di porto
Ciascun giocatore 
prende
• 30 PESOS
• 2 quote
• 3 complici
(partita a 3: 
4 complici)
• Ciascun giocatore prende 30 PESOS. Le monete che restano formano la CASSA DEL PORTO, e 
vanno piazzate vicino alla plancia.
• Ciascun giocatore prende tre complici del suo colore. Rimettete i pedoni avanzati nella scatola.
Preparazione del gioco:
fig. 2b: la posizione dei 
segnalini quotazione nel 
“mercato nero” all‘inizio 
del gioco.
fig. 2a: dividete le quote rimaste per tipo e piazzatele vicino 
alla plancia come nell‘esempio. (esempio)
(esempio)
In una partita a 3 giocatori, ciascun giocatore prende quattro complici.
A pagina 3 potete trovare le altre modifiche necessarie per una partita a 3 giocatori, sempre nel 
riquadro in campo rosso.
• Mescolate le carte quota a faccia in giù e distribuite due carte quota a ciascun giocatore, che le 
esamina senza mostrarle agli altri giocatori. Dividete le carte avanzate per tipo, quindi 
 posizionatele a faccia in su vicino alla plancia (vedi fig. 2a).
• Mettete i quattro segnalini quotazione sul “mercato nero”, ciascuno nella casella “0” del colore 
corrispondente (vedi fig. 2b).
• Piazzate i barconi, i carichi e i dadi vicino alla plancia.

carica 3 mercanzie 
e ne lascia una a 
terra.
sceglie le posizioni 
di partenza dei 
3 barconi.
La somma delle 
 posizioni = 9.
Nessun barcone 
oltre la 
 posizione 5.
b) caricare le merci
Il comandante della capitaneria sceglie un 
carico per ciascuno dei tre barconi, e quindi 
quale merce non verrà caricata.
fig. 4: questa volta chi 
comanda la capitaneria 
decide di non caricare 
la seta.
Alternate giri di 
piazzamento e 
navigazione (3 di 
ciascun tipo).
Partita a 3: prima del 
primo giro di 
 navigazione, giocate 
2 giri di piazzamento 
(=4 giri di 
 piazzamento +3 di 
 navigazione).
Giri di piazzamento
Ogni giocatore, a partire dal comandante della capitaneria e proseguendo in senso orario, piazza un 
proprio complice in uno spazio vacante rappresentato da un cerchio. Per farlo si deve pagare in 
PESOS il numero scritto nel cerchio stesso alla cassa del porto (unica eccezione lo spazio 
 assicuratore, vedi qui di seguito “dove piazzare i propri complici”).
Si può rinunciare a piazzare un complice al proprio turno, ma il giocatore che rinuncia non potrà 
piazzare altri complici per questo viaggio.
Se un giocatore non ha denaro e non può ottenerne con una apertura di credito, può comunque 
posizionare i suoi complici come “clandestini” gratuitamente (vedi “aperture di credito” e 
“ clandestini” alla fine del regolamento).
Giri di 
piazzamento:
ogni giocatore 
piazza 1 complice.
Inizia il 
comandante.
a) comprare una quota
Chi comanda la capitaneria può comprare una delle quote ancora disponibili pagandone il costo alla 
cassa del porto.
Il prezzo di una quota è pari al valore attuale della merce al mercato nero, ma con un minimo di 
5 PESOS.
fig. 3: una quota di noce moscata costa 
 attualmente 10 PESOS mentre la seta ne costa 20. 
Il ginseng è senza valore sul mercato nero in 
 questo momento, ma chi comanda la capitaneria 
dovrebbe comunque pagare 5 PESOS per una 
quota, così come una quota di giada, che vale 
 attualmente 5 PESOS sul mercato nero.
Il comandante può 
comprare 1 quota 
Prezzo = valore 
della merce al 
 mercato nero, 
minimo 5 PESOS.
Questa fase è il momento centrale di ciascun viaggio. Si compone di 3 giri di piazzamento e 3 di 
navigazione, da alternare fra loro: dopo il primo giro di piazzamento si passa alla prima 
 navigazione, poi al secondo piazzamento e quindi alla seconda navigazione, e così via.
3. Piazzare i complici e muovere i barconi
Nelle partite a tre giocatori si fanno 4 giri di piazzamento e 3 di navigazione: dopo il primo giro di piazzamento 
dei complici, se ne fa subito un altro. Solo a questo punto si fa il primo lancio e i barconi navigano. Dopodichè si 
prosegue alternando piazzamento e navigazione.
c) posizionare i barconi
Come ultimo compito il comandante deve mettere in acqua i barconi decidendo la loro posizione di 
partenza:
• su ciascuna rotta può stare un solo barcone. Non si possono mai posizionare due barconibarconi 
sulla stessa rotta.
• le posizioni di partenza su ciascuna rotta sono quelle da 0 a 5 (evidenziate dal numero in 
 neretto). Il comandante ne sceglie una e piazza il barcone in modo che la tocchi con la sua punta 
(la “prora”). Non si può posizionare un barcone oltre la posizione 5.
• la somma dei numeri delle 3 posizioni di partenza DEVE essere uguale a 9 (vedi fig. 5a e 5b).
fig. 5b: il comandante della 
capitaneria può mettere un 
barcone sullo 0 solo se la 
somma delle posizioni degli 
altri due è esattamente 9 
( quindi 5 + 4).
fig. 5a: sommando il 
numero delle 
3 posizioni di 
 partenza si deve 
fare 9. Nell‘esempio 
se un barcone è sul 4 
e un altro sul 3, 
l‘ultimo deve andare 
per forza sul 2. 
le tre rotte

DOVE PIAZZARE I PROPRI COMPLICI?
Gli spazi in cui si possono piazzare i propri complici sono i seguenti:
Carico (a bordo dei barconi):
Sui carichi di ginseng, seta, noce moscata ci sono tre spazi complice, sul carico di giada quattro. 
Gli spazi sono i cerchi sulla tessera carico. I complici piazzati sui carichi vanno messi nel cerchio 
libero meno costoso del carico prescelto. Se c‘è spazio, nei giri successivi, si può mettere un 
secondo complice sullo stesso barcone.
Non si possono mettere complici sui barconi già attraccati al molo.
➙ scopo: chi ha un proprio complice su un barcone che attracca al molo (entro il terzo giro di 
navigazione) partecipa alla spartizione dei profitti (vedi fase 4: “incasso dei profitti”).
➙ rischio: se il barcone non giunge a destinazione, non si spartiscono i profitti e si perde quanto 
speso per piazzare il complice.
Molo e cantiere:
In ogni molo e cantiere c‘è lo spazio per piazzare un complice, che prende il con-
trollo dell‘area. Lo spazio è rappresentato dal cerchio dorato. Si può occupare più 
di un molo o cantiere nello stesso viaggio, se gli spazi sono liberi. Si può occupare 
un molo o cantiere, che non sia già stato occupato da un altro complice, anche se vi 
si trova già un barcone.
➙ scopo: controllare gli spazi di molo e cantiere dove saranno attraccati i barconi 
dopo la terza navigazione, e incassare come pagamento per il noleggio dell‘area la 
cifra scritta nel cerchio scuro (vedi fase 4 “incasso dei profitti”).
➙ rischio: se dopo la terza navigazione non c‘è un barcone nel molo o cantiere con-
trollato, non si ottiene alcun pagamento e si perde quanto speso per piazzare il 
complice.
Nave pirata:
sulla nave pirata ci sono due spazi per i complici: i cerchi dorati. Chi piazza per primo un proprio 
complice sulla nave pirata prende il posto davanti e diventa il capitano dei pirati. Se lo spazio del 
capitano è occupato ci si deve accontentare del secondo spazio. I pirati possono anche essere 
tutti e due dello stesso giocatore.
➙ scopo: i pirati possono abbordare un barcone che termina la sua seconda navigazione nella 
posizione 13, e possono saccheggiare qualsiasi barcone che finisca la sua terza navigazione 
nella posizione 13 (vedi “arrivano i pirati”).
➙ rischio: se nessun barcone si ferma sulla posizione 13, si resta a mani vuote.
Cabine dei piloti:
In questa zona ci sono due spazi complice, rappresentati dai cerchi dorati. Si può scegliere 
 liberamente fra lo spazio più costoso del capo pilota o quello del vice pilota.
➙ scopo: immediatamente prima del terzo giro di navigazione dei barconi i piloti possono aiutare, 
od ostacolare, i barconi che non sono ancora giunti a destinazione nella loro navigazione. I bar-
coni già attraccati non possono essere influenzati dai piloti (vedi “i piloti entrano in azione”).
➙ rischio: possono solo favorire un risultato, difficilmente garantirlo. I soldi per arruolarli alla 
fine potrebbero risultare uno spreco.
Assicuratore:
Nell‘ufficio dell‘assicuratore c‘è spazio per un solo complice, rappresentato dal cerchio scuro! Chi 
mette qui il proprio complice non paga, ma bensì riceve subito 10 PESOS dalla cassa del porto.
➙ scopo: se, dopo la terza navigazione, non ci sono barconi nei cantieri il giocatore si tiene i 10 
PESOS che ha incassato come premio assicurativo.
➙ rischio: per ciascun barcone che attracca ad un cantiere l‘assicuratore deve pagare il costo di 
riparazione ad un altro giocatore o alla cassa del porto (vedi “pagamenti dell‘assicurazione”).
barcone carico
molo
nave pirata
cabine dei piloti
assicurazione

Arrivano i pirati
Se un barcone si ferma sulla posizione 13 alla fine di un giro di navigazione viene attaccato dai 
a) I barconi che occupano la posizione 13 alla fine della seconda navigazione vengono abbordati.
b) I barconi che occupano la posizione 13 alla fine della terza navigazione vengono saccheggiati.
Un barcone che arriva nella posizione 13 per l‘azione dei piloti, e non alla fine di un giro di 
 navigazione, non viene attaccato dai pirati (vedi “i piloti entrano in azione”). Se un barcone 
 raggiunge la posizione 13 quando la nave dei pirati è vuota allora non si verifica nessun attacco.
I barconi che 
superano il 13 
attraccano ad un 
molo.
Approdo in porto
Un barcone che naviga oltre la posizione 13 
raggiunge MANILA e approda al molo. Il 
primo barcone che raggiunge MANILA occupa 
il molo contrassegnato dalla lettera A, il 
secondo dalla B, e il terzo dalla C. Se più 
 barconi raggiungono il molo 
 contemporaneamente non fa differenza quale 
viene piazzato in quale molo, l’importante è 
che l‘ordine con cui i moli vengono occupati 
sia A B C (vedi fig. 7). In ciascun molo può 
attraccare soltanto un barcone per viaggio.
fig. 7: il barcone della giada 
ha raggiunto MANILA nel 
secondo giro di navigazione e 
occupa il molo A. Nel terzo 
giro gli altri due barconi 
 giungono a destinazione, 
 occupando i moli B e C. Non 
importa quale barcone va in 
quale molo fra questi due. Se 
invece ne arrivasse soltanto 
uno a MANILA il molo C 
 resterebbe vuoto, e il barcone 
rimasto in mare finirebbe nel 
cantiere A.
NOTA: immediatamente prima della terza navigazione i piloti possono influenzare la posizione dei 
barconi (vedi “i piloto entrano in azione”)!
Naufragio
I barconi che non raggiungono MANILA dopo 
il terzo giro di navigazione naufragano e ven-
gono posizionati nei cantieri (fanno eccezio-
ne i barconi che alla fine del secondo o terzo 
giro sono nella posizione 13 e subiscono 
l‘azione dei pirati, vedi “arrivano i pirati”).
Se un solo barcone resta in mare andrà ad 
occupare il cantiere A. Se i barconi sono due 
occuperanno i cantieri A e B. Se nessun 
 barcone raggiunge MANILA entro la terza 
navigazione allora anche il cantiere C sarà 
occupato (vedi fig. 8). Ciascun cantiere può 
ospitare un solo barcone alla volta.
fig. 8: Soltanto il barcone 
carico di seta è arrivato a 
MANILA.
Gli altri due barconi non 
sono arrivati a 
destinazione, e nemmeno 
nella posizione 13. Per loro 
il viaggio si conclude nei 
cantieri A e B.
I barconi che non 
raggiungono il 13 
dopo il terzo giro 
fanno naufragio e 
vanno in cantiere.
Ci sono 3 aree per i 
barconi (A, B, e C) 
sia nel molo che nel 
cantiere.
Un pirata può abbordare un barcone se questo ha uno spazio libero, nel qual caso lascia la nave 
pirata e occupa lo spazio sul barcone. Se sul barcone non ci sono spazi liberi allora non può essere 
abbordato (vedi fig. 9).
Il capitano dei pirati (chi sta davanti sulla barca dei pirati) può abbordare per primo. Nel caso ci sia 
ancora posto sul barcone, la scelta passa eventualmente al secondo pirata, che può abbordare anche 
se il capitano ha declinato. Abbordare non è obbligatorio, ciascun pirata sceglie individualmente se 
abbordare o meno. Restare sulla nave dei pirati dà l‘opportunità di poter in seguito saccheggiare 
(vedi “saccheggiare”).
a) Abbordaggio (vedi fig. 9)
Chi comanda la capitaneria lancia i tre dadi 
 corrispondenti ai colori delle merci caricate 
sui barconi, quindi muove ciascun barcone, 
nell‘ordine che preferisce, lungo la sua rotta 
del risultato del suo dado (vedi fig. 6).
• La navigazione va sempre effettuata spostando 
il barcone del risultato del dado, né più né 
meno; l‘unica eccezione si ha quando un 
 barcone attracca al molo e la navigazione si 
arresta.
• Ciascun barcone può avanzare solo lungo la sua 
rotta. I cambi di rotta sono vietati.
• I barconi non possono perdere (o cambiare) il 
carico lungo la rotta
fig. 6: il dado marrone “noce 
moscata” mostra un 4. Quindi 
il controllore della capitaneria 
muove il barcone col carico di 
noce moscata di 4 posizioni 
verso l‘approdo.
Quindi muove il barcone della 
seta di due posizioni.
Il barcone carico di giada 
 raggiunge il porto usando due 
punti del suo dado, e ne 
 avanzano altri due che 
 vengono ignorati.
Giri di navigazione:
Giri di navigazione:
 lancia i 3 dadi del 
colore delle merci 
sui barconi e li 
sposta in avanti 
del risultato.
I barconi che si 
fermano sul 13 
sono abbordati e 
saccheggiati dai 
Abbordaggio: 
soltanto dopo il 
secondo giro di 
navigazione!
I pirati occupano 
gli spazi liberi dei 
barconi.

I piloti entrano in azione
Dopo l‘ultimo giro di piazzamento dei complici (appena prima dell‘ultima navigazione) i piloti 
possono influenzare il movimento dei barconi. L‘azione dei piloti non si esercita sui barconi già 
arrivati a destinazione.
• il “vice pilota” (quello sullo spazio che costa 2 PESOS) agisce per primo. Può spostare un barcone in 
avanti o indietro di uno spazio.
• poi agisce il “capo pilota”. Può spostare un barcone di due spazi o due barconi di uno spazio avanti 
o indietro. Se ne sposta due diversi può anche scegliere di avanzarne uno e arretrare l‘altro. Può 
anche spostare il barcone già mosso dal vice pilota se è ancora in mare (vedi fig. 11).
Quando un pilota sposta un barcone dalla posizione 13 in avanti, questo arriva immediatamente a 
destinazione e va ad occupare un molo libero.
Quando un pilota muove un barcone in avanti alla posizione 13 non ci sono effetti particolari 
(i pirati attaccano solo immediatamente dopo un giro di navigazione).
• Il comandante della capitaneria deve di lanciare i dadi per il terzo 
giro di navigazione solo dopo aver dato il tempo ai piloti di agire.
• Ciascun pilota sceglie autonomamente se agire o meno.
fig. 11: l‘ultimo giro di piazzamento dei complici è appena terminato, 
prima di lanciare i dadi per l‘ultimo giro di navigazione il comandante 
della capitaneria deve attendere che i piloti decidano se intervenire o 
meno. Il “vice pilota” sceglie di spostare il barcone della noce moscata 
in avanti di una posizione. Il barcone raggiunge MANILA e va ad 
 occupare il primo molo libero, il “capo pilota” non potrà spostarlo 
visto che è già approdato. Il “capo pilota” decide di spostare il barcone 
della giada indietro di una posizione e il barcone del ginseng avanti di 
una, alla 13. Questa mossa non attiva però l‘attacco dei pirati, che 
avviene solo immediatamente dopo un giro di navigazione.
Non appena viene completato il terzo giro di navigazione e i barconi sono tutti posizionati su moli 
e/o cantieri, si passa alla fase di incasso dei profitti.
Variante di gioco: una regola opzionale che trovate in fondo al regolamento aumenta la forza dei 
fig. 9: dopo la seconda navigazione 
il barcone carico di giada e quello 
di ginseng sono entrambi sulla 
posizione 13. Il capitano dei pirati 
decide di abbordarne uno. Sale sul 
 barcone del ginseng, dove c‘è solo 
un posto libero. Non ci sono altri 
spazi liberi sui due barconi, quindi 
il secondo pirata è costretto a 
restare sulla nave dei pirati e si 
piazza nella posizione del capitano.
Quando il capitano dei pirati 
 abborda un barcone, il secondo 
pirata diventa immediatamente il 
capitano dei pirati, e prende il posto 
di testa sulla nave dei pirati. Se c‘è 
più di un barcone con degli spazi 
liberi sulla posizione 13 alla fine del 
secondo giro di navigazione, i pirati 
possono scegliere liberamente quale 
abbordare l‘uno indipendentemente 
dall‘altro, ma con la prima scelta 
sempre per il capitano.
Saccheggio: 
soltanto dopo il 
terzo giro di 
navigazione!
I pirati si 
spartiscono il 
valore delle merci 
saccheggiate.
Se il secondo 
pirata resta da 
solo sulla nave dei 
pirati, viene pro-
mosso a capitano.
Il capitano dei 
pirati decide se il 
barcone 
saccheggiato 
attracca ad un 
molo o va in can-
tiere.
Prima del terzo 
giro di 
navigazione:
• il “vice pilota” 
sposta 1 barcone 
di una posizione
• il “capo pilota” 
sposta 1 barcone 
(2 posizioni) o 
2 barconi 
(ciascuno di una 
posizione)
b) Saccheggio (vedi fig. 10)
Tutti i barconi che si trovano sulla posizione 13 dopo la terza navigazione vengono catturati dai pira-
ti:
• tutti i complici che si trovano su questi barconi vengono rimossi e restituiti ai loro giocatori.
• i pirati ricevono i profitti per ogni barcone saccheggiato direttamente dalla cassa del porto (vedi 
“incasso dei profitti”).
• il capitano dei pirati inoltre decide, per ogni barcone saccheggiato, se approda ad un molo o se 
finisce in un cantiere. Se sceglie un molo il valore della mercanzia a bordo del barcone salirà (vedi 
“aumento del valore”).
fig. 10: il barcone della noce moscata 
è sulla posizione 13 alla fine della 
terza navigazione. Tutti i complici sul 
barcone vengono restituiti ai loro 
proprietari senza guadagnare 
 alcunché. I pirati si spartiscono i 
 profitti del barcone della noce 
 moscata di 24 PESOS (12 PESOS 
ciascuno) dalla cassa del porto.
When a punt stands on space 
13 after the third movement 
round and there are no pirates 
on the pirate boat, it is placed 
on the next vacant port space. 
and is treated as if it arrived at 
the destination port.

Pagamenti dell‘assicurazione
I barconi che naufragano e finiscono nel cantiere sono danneggiati. Il costo della riparazione lo paga 
l‘assicurazione (vedi fig. 14). L‘assicuratore paga
• direttamente il giocatore che ha un complice che controlla un cantiere occupato da un barcone 
danneggiato.
• la cassa del porto per i barconi che si trovano in cantieri che non sono controllati da nessuno. Il 
giocatore che controlla il complice che agisce da assicuratore paga per intero l‘ammontare indicato 
nei cerchi scuri vicino ai cantieri occupati dai barconi (vedi fig. 14).
fig. 14: 
l‘assicuratore deve 
pagare le riparazioni 
per i due barconi 
che si trovano nei 
cantieri. Deve 
 pagare 6 PESOS al 
giocatore BLU e 8 
PESOS a quello 
ARANCIONE. Poiché 
è appunto il 
 giocatore blu ad 
aver preso il ruolo 
di assicuratore, paga 
soltanto 8 PESOS al 
giocatore 
ARANCIONE.
Il giocatore che controlla l‘assicuratore deve incassare 
tutti i suoi profitti prima di pagare le spese di 
 riparazione. Se non ha abbastanza denaro per pagare, 
deve chiedere delle “aperture di credito” (vedi oltre) per 
raccogliere il denaro necessario. Se anche questo non 
basta deve comunque ottenere tutto il credito possibile 
impegnando tutte le sue quote e pagare tutto quello 
che può, la differenza sarà pagata dalla cassa del porto. 
La cassa del porto non deve essere rimborsata in seguito 
per questi interventi di emergenza.
• I complici sugli spazi MOLO e CANTIERE 
 guadagnano solo se nell‘area che controllano 
è presente un barcone (vedi fig. 13a e 13b). 
Il profitto guadagnato da ciascuno di questi 
complici si trova nel cerchio scuro vicino al 
loro spazio. Il guadagno dei complici che 
 controllano i moli viene pagato sempre dalla 
cassa del porto. Il guadagno dei complici che 
 controllano i cantieri viene pagato dalla cassa 
del porto solo se non c‘è un assicuratore 
(vedi “pagamenti dell‘assicurazione” qui di 
seguito). I complici che controllano moli o 
cantieri vuoti non danno alcun guadagno.
fig. 13a: i barconi giunti a 
destinazione sono due, il 
giocatore ARANCIONE 
incassa 6 PESOS e il 
 giocatore ROSSO 8 PESOS. 
Il complice del giocatore 
BLU avrebbe guadagnato 
solo se tutti e 3 i barconi 
fossero arrivati a MANILA, 
e quindi torna a casa a 
mani vuote.
• I complici impiegati come piloti non producono mai profitti direttamente.
fig. 13b: nel cantiere 
c‘è solo il barcone 
carico di ginseng, e il 
giocatore blu che 
controlla il cantiere A 
guadagna 6 PESOS.
Il giocatore NERO ha 
un complice sul 
 cantiere B, e poiché è 
naufragato un solo 
barcone il suo 
 complice rientra con 
le pive nel sacco.
fig. 12: il barcone carico 
di giada arriva a MANILA 
con 3 complici a bordo. 
Il guadagno sono 
36 PESOS, e ciascun com-
plice riceve un terzo di 
questa cifra. Il giocatore 
rosso riceve 24 PESOS 
poiché ha due complici 
su questo barcone, e il 
giallo 12 per il suo unico 
complice.
In questa fase i giocatori incassano, dalla cassa del porto, quanto guadagnato dai loro complici:
• I complici sulla NAVE DEI PIRATI guadagnano solo se un barcone si ferma nella posizione 13 alla 
fine del terzo giro di navigazione. I pirati saccheggiano questi barconi dividendosi il valore del cari-
co (il numero stampato in cima alla tessera) in parti uguali. Se c‘è un solo pirata ottiene l‘intero 
valore per sé. Tutti i complici che si trovano sui barconi che vengono saccheggiati vengono rimossi 
e non guadagnano nulla (vedi fig. 10).
• I complici a bordo dei barconi guadagnano solo se il loro barcone arriva a destinazione e approda 
ad un molo. Il numero stampato sulle tessere mercanzia è il guadagno che i complici a bordo di un 
barcone devono spartirsi (vedi fig. 12).
4. Incasso dei profitti
A. I pirati guada-
gnano il valore dei 
barconi 
 saccheggiati e se lo 
spartiscono 
 equamente.
(paga la cassa del 
porto).
B. I complici sui 
barconi 
 guadagnano il 
valore della merce 
sul barcone se 
approdano ad un 
molo (paga la 
cassa del porto).
C. I complici sui 
moli guadagnano 
se un barcone 
approda al loro 
molo (paga la 
cassa del porto).
D. I complici sui 
cantieri 
 guadagnano se un 
barcone finisce nel 
loro cantiere. Paga 
l‘assicuratore. Se 
nessuno controlla 
l‘assicuratore, paga 
la cassa del porto.
L‘assicuratore paga 
anche le 
 riparazioni per i 
barconi nei 
 cantieri che non 
sono controllati da 
un complice (versa 
nella cassa del 
porto).
Profitti:
A. I pirati guada-
gnano il valore dei

Aperture di credito
In qualsiasi momento un giocatore che ha delle quote non ancora impegnate può prendere del dena-
ro in prestito dalla cassa del porto, impegnando una o più della sue quote.
Per indicare che una quota è impegnata mettetela da parte, ben distinta da quelle ancora libere 
(eventualmente decidete un modo identico per tutti, come ad esempio metterle per metà sotto il 
bordo della plancia di gioco dal proprio lato). Per ciascuna quota impegnata la cassa del porto presta 
12 PESOS.
Quando un giocatore deve fare un pagamento e non ha abbastanza denaro, allora DEVE chiedere una 
apertura di credito e impegnare tutte le quote che servono per onorare l‘impegno. Se questo comun-
que non basta perchè non ha abbastanza denaro e quote da impegnare, allora
• non potrà offrire per il comando della capitaneria di porto più di quanto ha in cassa e può 
 ottenere come credito.
• deve pagare con tutto il denaro che ha e prendere tutti i prestiti che può per coprire i danni se è 
l‘assicuratore,
In qualsiasi momenti una quota impegnata può essere liberata ripagando il prestito e gli interessi per 
un totale di 15 PESOS alla cassa del porto. Rimettete la quota liberata con le altre quote non 
impegnate. Alla bisogna potrà nuovamente essere utilizzata per ottenere una apertura di credito.
Alla fine della partita le quote devono essere tutte liberate, pagando 15 PESOS per ogni quota 
 ancora impegnata (vedi “fine del gioco e vittoria”).
Clandestini
Quando un giocatore non ha denaro (e non ha quote libere per ottenere un prestito) potrà usare i 
suoi complici solo come clandestini, piazzandoli su uno spazio libero di un qualsiasi barcone senza 
pagare. Ogni altro spazio sarà vietato fino a che non potrà di nuovo permettersi di pagare.
Se un giocatore che ha impegnato tutte le sue quote ha ancora qualche soldo, ma non abbastanza 
per pagare lo spazio più economico disponibile, può comunque piazzare un proprio complice in quello 
spazio pagando tutto quello che ha.
Variante: i pirati che possono abbordare un barcone possono salire anche se non ci sono 
spazi liberi. Chi abborda semplicemente toglie uno dei complici presenti dal barcone su 
cui vuole salire e lo restituisce al suo proprietario e mette il proprio pirata al suo posto. 
Se però ci sono degli spazi liberi sul (o sui) barcone(i) nella posizione 13, allora i pirati 
devono prima occupare gli spazi vuoti. Solo quando non ci sono più spazi vuoti i pirati 
possono scalzare dai barconi i complici presenti. Se entrambi i pirati salgono sullo stesso 
barcone, il secondo pirata non può scalzare il capitano dei pirati appena salito.
Autore: Franz-Benno Delonge
Illustrazioni e grafica: Victor Boden
Traduzione: Alifenorm
Le merci a bordo di barconi che hanno attraccato ad un molo aumentano di valore. Il loro segnalino 
quotazione sale di una casella nella colonna corrispondente del mercato nero (ad esempio da 0 a 5 
dopo il primo viaggio in cui arrivano a destinazione).
Le merci che non raggiungono un molo non aumentano di valore.
A questo punto rimettete i barconi e le tessere merci a bordo della plancia di gioco. Ciascun giocatore 
ritira tutti i suoi complici. Il prossimo viaggio riprende con l‘asta per il comando della capitaneria di 
porto (vedi fase 1) …
5. Aumento del valore
Non appena una merce raggiunge il valore 30 al mercato nero la partita finisce.
Ciascun giocatore conta il denaro (PESOS) che ha in mano e aggiunge il valore delle suo quote (come 
indicato dalla posizione dei pedoni quotazione sul mercato nero). Da questa somma deve togliere 
15 PESOS per ogni quota ancora impegnata (i prestiti che non ha reso). Il totale è il suo PATRIMONIO.
Il giocatore col patrimonio maggiore è il contrabbandiere più bravo di tutta MANILA, e vince la partita!
Fine della partita e vittoria
Impegnare quote
(“apertura di 
credito”)
= 12 Pesos dalla 
cassa del porto.
Liberare
Crediti non 
rimborsati
= meno 15 Pesos a 
fine partita.
Un giocatore al 
verde può piazzare 
complici 
gratuitamente 
(“clandestini”).
Le merci che 
raggiungono un 
molo salgono di 
una casella al 
mercato nero.
Fine della partita: 
una merce 
raggiunge il 
 valore 30.
Vincitore: il 
giocatore col 
patrimonio 
maggiore (pesos 
più quote meno 
crediti non 
rimborsati).