GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308 • Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.gmtgames.com
(800) 523-6111

What is this game about?
Manoeuvre is based on Napoleonic era warfare, but only loosely so; it plays 
more like chess, but with some aspects of the chaos of real warfare. Manoeuvre 
was designed with two parallel thoughts in mind: ease of play combined with 
variety. The game is simple enough that it can be learned and played in a short 
time, and the battles remain different each time you play it. 
How many players can play the game?
This is a 2 player game. You can play Manoeuvre on your own, but you will lose 
much of the fog of war and surprises built into the game.
How do you win the game?
There are two ways to win the game. One, you can win by driving your opponent’s 
army off the battlefield. Two, you can win by occupying your opponent’s side of 
the battlefield without letting him occupy your side of the battlefield. See rule 2 
for detailed rules about winning the game. 
How long does it to take to play a game?
Your first playing will take approximately 90-120 minutes including time to 
frequently check the rules and learn the cards. Each play thereafter will cut off 
5-10 minutes as you learn various rules and more importantly become familiar 
with the play style needed for the different armies. Experienced players should 
be able to finish a game in 40-60 minutes, although the game may end earlier if 
an attrition victory is achieved.
Before reading the rules...read this!
Do not try to memorize the rules. On your first reading, ignore the rule cross-
references. After you have scanned the rules and cards, examine the game 
pieces. Then play through a couple of turns for practice. You should then have 
a fair grasp of the game’s basics. Use the Reference card during the game. After 
a few games, you should rarely need to check the rules. (If there’s a difference 
between the rules and the Reference card, the rules are the final authority.) See 
rules 8 and 9 to familiarize yourself with the cards. 
A complete game of Manoeuvre includes:
•	 24 map squares;
•	 4 red six-sided dice, 4 blue eight-sided dice 
and 4 green ten-sided dice;
•	 1 counter sheet;
•	 8 decks of 60 playing cards;
•	 1 rule book (this one)
•	 2 Reference Cards.

1 Components
1.1 Maps
Manoeuvre includes 24 map 
sections, each section is 4 
squares wide by 4 squares 
deep. The squares on the 
maps serve to regulate 
movement 
and 
combat, 
in a similar manner to the 
squares on a chessboard. A 
complete battlefield consists 
of 4 of these map sections 
joined together to form a 
larger map, two maps wide 
by two maps deep. This 
creates a battlefield eight by 
eight squares, identical to a 
chess board. 
In all cases, nothing can occur on a diagonal. That is, only the four flat sides of 
each square can be used to do anything (move, attack, bombard, control, etc.)
1.2 Dice
Manoeuvre includes several sets of dice, four red 6-sided dice, four blue 8-sided 
dice and four green 10-sided dice. A shorthand system will be used to describe 
these dice. A 6-sided die is identified by the expression d6, an 8-sided die by the 
notation d8 and a 10-sided die by d10. The “0” face on the d10 is equal to a ten. 
If several dice of a particular type are needed, it is noted by a number in front of 
the type of dice. For example, 2d8 means roll two 8-sided dice. Generally, dice 
are rolled to resolve combat and other uncertain situations that may arise while 
playing the game.
1.3 Unit Counters
There are eight national Armies in the game. Each Army includes two elements, 
the unit counters (units) and the cards. 
The units are the fighting forces representative of that particular nation that do 
the actual moving and fighting on the battlefield. 
Every Army contains 8 units, and each unit has printing on both sides. One side 
sides show the unit at full strength (solid color background and the side with 
the higher number on it) the other shows the unit after it has suffered from the 
ravages of battle, known as the reduced strength side of the unit (background 
with wide color stripe and with the smaller number on it). 

Each unit is also identified by the unit’s name. The name of each unit is important, 
as that unit can generally only fight if a Unit Card with the same Unit Name on 
it is played. 
Finally, each unit represents a particular type of fighting force—either Infantry 
of Cavalry. Infantry units are denoted by a picture of a soldier on foot while 
Cavalry units are denoted by a picture of horse mounted soldier.
 
All 8 units start on the battlefield and move and fight against the opposing Army 
trying to win while preventing the enemy from doing the same.
The 8 units in each Army are a set and cannot be switched with units from a 
different Army. Each Army contains a unique mix of units. Some have more 
Cavalry. Some have units that are very strong mixed with some weak units. No 
two Armies are exactly the same. Each Army has strengths and weaknesses and 
knowing how best to use your own Army’s strengths and exploit your opponent’s 
weaknesses is what makes the game different each time it is played. 
1.4 Cards
In addition to units, each Army includes an Action Deck 
of 60 cards. The Action Deck for each Army goes with 
that specific Army and cannot be switched with other 
armies. 
The card background color along with the national 
flag on the card back identifies to which Army the card 
belongs. Each player draws a hand from their own 
Action Deck of 60 cards and will use that hand of cards 
to perform various actions during their turn and perhaps 
in reaction to the other player’s actions during the other 
player’s turn. 
There are two main types of cards, Unit Cards and HQ (Headquarter) cards. 
The most common card is a Unit Card. Each of the 8 units in each Army has 5 
Unit Cards that match that unit’s name. Thus, with 8 units and 5 cards for each 
unit, there are 40 cards (out of 60 cards total) in each Action Deck that are Unit 
Cards. 
In the French Action Deck, there are 5 cards that have the unit name Imperial 
Guard. Please note we missed the name change on the counter to Garde 
Imperial when we proofed the cards. These are the same unit. 
This is the Imperial Guard unit of the French 
Army. Its Full Strength side shows strength 
of 8 and its Reduced Strength shows strength 
of 5. It is an Infantry unit designated by the 
picture of a foot soldier.

Unit Cards do several things. During the Combat Phase of your turn, if the 
situation is right, playing a Unit Card will let you initiate a combat with that 
named unit. During your opponent’s turn, if the named unit is being attacked, 
a Unit Card will help that named unit to defend. During your own turn, a Unit 
Card will allow you to restore a reduced strength unit (that matches the name on 
the Unit Card) back to full strength. 
Each Army includes 20 HQ Cards in its Action Deck of 60 cards. There are 12 
different types of HQ Cards. While the same type of HQ Card may be present in 
several different Armies, each Army will have a unique mix of HQ Cards. Each 
nation will have Leader HQ Cards plus three to eight of the other types. HQ 
Cards help represent the ways that each national Army fought. The specific HQ 
Card manifest for each Army is shown on the Reference Card. For more detail 
about the cards, see rule 9. 
2 How to Win at Manoeuvre
2.1 Attrition Victory or Winning by Eliminating Enemy Units
If, at any point in the game, you have eliminated 5 (or more) of your opponent’s 
units, you immediately win the game (unless you lost your 5th [or more] unit in 
the same battle due to a Committed Attack in which case your opponent wins as 
your overall commander is sacked for his pyhrric victory in that battle).
2.2 Nightfall Victory or Winning by Controlling the Battlefield
If neither player wins by an Attrition Victory, the side which controls more of 
their opponent’s side of the battlefield when the day ends, wins. See 2.3, for 
when the day ends.
You control any square on the enemy’s half of the battlefield if you either 
occupy it with one of your units or if you have Uncontested Influence over a 
square. A square is Uncontested if one of your units is next to it (remember, no 
diagonals!) and your opponent is either not on the square or next to it. (See the 
diagram on page 6.) Each player should count up all the squares they control 
on the opponent’s side of the battlefield. The higher total wins. If there is a tie, 
whichever side eliminated more of his opponent’s units wins. If there is still a 
tie, whichever side has fewer units at reduced strength wins. If there is still a 
tie, then the country first shown in the following list which is involved in the 
battle wins: United States, Ottoman Empire, Spain, Austria, Prussia, Russia, 
Great Britain, France (in other words, France will never win if it comes to this 
tie-breaker!). 
Note: Although a unit can not enter a Lake square, a unit can have Uncontested 
Influence over a Lake square and have it count towards victory.

In the example above, Nightfall has occurred. The French player wins the 
game—territorial gains are tied 4 squares to 4 squares but the French have 
fewer eliminated units. The squares marked with an X do not count for the 
player indicated because they are adjacent to units from both sides. The squares 
marked with a Y do not count for the player indicated because they are occupied 
by an enemy unit.
2.3 When the Day Ends 
In this era, battles did not normally take place after sunset. To represent the end 
of the day, the game ends at the end of the Game Turn when both players have 
drawn their last card from their first Action Deck. The game does not end when 
just one player has drawn the last card in their first Action Deck. That player 
reshuffles all their discards to form a new Action Deck and the game continues. 
This player may reshuffle their Action Deck as many times as necessary. Once 
the other player draws the last card from their first Action Deck, the game is 
over at the end of the current Game Turn.
British side of the battlefield
French side of the battlefield
French side of the battlefield
British side of the battlefield

3 Game Set Up
Both players roll a d10. The high roller is the First Player. If the die rolls are tied, 
roll again until there is not a tie. Give the player the First Player Marker. 
For your first few games, we suggest you use the following set-up. The First 
Player decides whether they want to play the British or the French.
The First Player chooses 4 map sections and decides how to orient and place 
them into the 2 x 2 pattern; see the set-up below for an example. The Second 
Player selects which two Nations will be used. The First Player then selects 
which of the two Nations they will use. The second player selects which of the 
four map edges will be their starting edge and the first player is assigned the 
opposite starting edge.
Each player shuffles their Action Deck and allows their opponent the opportunity 
to cut the deck. Both players then draw 5 cards from their own Action Deck.	
This is important because it means the players know their starting hand before 
they set-up their units.
French starting edge
British starting edge

For Experienced players and Tournament Play: Instead of the five initial 
cards being drawn randomly, each player is allowed to search through their 
Action Deck and select which 5 cards they will start the game with. The Action 
Decks should be shuffled and cut after the starting cards are selected. This 
represents pre-battle planning and strategy.
Each player sets up their 8 units in the 2 rows closest to their Starting Edge. 
Only 1 unit may set up in each square. All units set up at full strength. The First 
Player will set-up first completely before the Second Player sets up.
4 Sequence of Play
Each game turn is comprised of two identical Player Turns. Each Player Turn 
consists of 5 Phases, as follows:
	 1. Discard Phase
	 2. Draw Phase
	 3. Movement Phase
	 4. Combat Phase
	 5. Restoration Phase
The First Player carries out all 5 phases of his player turn, in order, and is considered 
the Active Player. The second player then carries out all 5 phases, in order, as the 
Active Player. Unless the game has ended, a new game turn is started. Phases must 
be taken in the strict order shown. A player may not go back and alter or add an 
action if they neglected to perform it earlier in the Player Turn.
Discard Phase
The Active Player may discard any or all cards in his hand. Discards are placed 
in a separate face up stack, though all cards need not be shown to your opponent, 
only the top one. Players may not search through their own or opponent’s discard 
pile at any time.
Draw Phase
The Active Player draws sufficient cards to bring his hand back to 5 cards. 
See rule 2.3 to see what happens when one or both players’ draw decks are 
exhausted.
Movement Phase
The Active Player must move 1 unit from his Army.
Combat Phase 
The Active Player may declare 1 (and only) combat. The player does not have to 
declare a combat. There are 4 forms of Combat: Ambush, Assault, Bombardment, 
and Volley.
Restoration Phase
The Active Player may, if he wants, attempt to restore one reduced strength unit 
to full strength.

5 Movement
During the Movement Phase of the Player Turn, the Active Player must move one 
unit. Infantry units may move 1 Square and Cavalry may move 1 or 2 Squares. 
Remember no diagonal movement is allowed. Some terrain may restrict Cavalry 
to moving only 1 Square. (See the Reference Card for a brief summary of terrain 
effects on movement.) Units may not move off the battlefield edge, may not end up 
in the same Square as another unit (friendly or enemy), nor may a unit move over 
any Square already occupied by a unit (friendly or enemy). When a unit makes a 
basic move it must end its move in a square different than it started. Cavalry units 
are not permitted to move one space and then back to its original space. However, 
a Forced March may be used to return a unit to its original space.
HQ Cards may allow an additional unit to move (Supply) or allow a unit to move 
one additional square (Forced March). No more than one Supply card may be 
played per Movement Phase and no more than one Forced March may be played 
on any given unit during that Movement Phase. Thus, in one Movement Phase, 
the Active Player could move, at maximum, two units with each moving an 
additional square, if he were able to play a Supply card and two Forced March 
cards. The play of a Guerrilla card by the opponent can negate these cards (one 
Guerrilla card negates one card) and disallows the play of a second card of the 
same type for the same unit.
Note: Unit facing has no effect in the game.
Cavalry Move = 2 squares
Infantry Move = 1 square

6 Combat
There are four forms of combat: Ambush, Assault, Bombardment, and Volley. 
They are resolved using one of two different procedures which share some 
aspects in common. Ambush and Assault are resolved using the same procedure 
(6.1), while Bombardment and Volley share a different procedure (6.2). 
The Active Player may initiate only one combat during their player turn and 
only if the conditions for that type of combat are met, but the Active Player 
does not have to initiate a combat. The player who is not the Active Player is 
considered the defender.
6.1 Ambush and Assault Combat Procedure
Step 1: In an Assault, the Active Player names the attacking unit and must play 
a Unit Card which matches the attacking unit that includes an Attack value to 
initiate the combat. An Assault may not be initiated if the attacking unit is in a 
Marsh square. 
Unit Cards which have an artillery icon on them do not have an attack value. 
In an Ambush, the Active Player plays an Ambush HQ Card. There is no attacking 
unit, and any enemy unit on the board may be selected.
Step 2: The Active Player names the target of the attack. This defending unit 
must be adjacent (not diagonally!) to the attacking unit in an assault, but can be 
any enemy unit in an Ambush. 
Step 3: The defender now has the option to Withdraw if there is any unoccupied 
square adjacent to the defending unit. The defender plays a Withdraw HQ card 
to Withdraw; all eight Armies have these cards in their Action Deck. The United 
States also has special Unit Cards which can be played to allow the defending 
unit to attempt to withdraw; see rule 8 for details. All Withdraw cards must be 
played immediately after the attacker initiates combat and if successful end the 
combat without the attacker being allowed to play any further cards. Withdraws 
follow the rules of Retreat exactly as if the unit was forced to Retreat. If the 
defending unit withdraws the attacking unit must Advance into the now vacated 
square, any Pursuit (6.6) is resolved, and any cards used to initiate the combat 
and Withdraw are discarded. The combat is completed and no further cards may 
be played by the attacker. The Active player may not initiate another combat.
Step 4: If the defending unit did not Withdraw in step 3, the defender may now 
play Unit Cards matching the defending unit to increase the Defense Total. The 
defender may also play one Leader Card and use its Combat value to increase 
the Defense Total.
Step 5: The Active Player then may play cards to assist the attack. The eligible 
cards are Committed Attack (maximum of one per attacking/Supporting unit), 
Sappers/Engineers, Skirmish, Unit Cards for attacking/Supporting units, and one 
Leader Card. 

Step 6: Now determine the Attack and Defense Totals.
The Attack Total is the total of: 
•	 Attacking unit’s strength (there is no attacking unit strength in an Ambush); 
and
•	 Die Roll(s) from the attacking Unit Cards or the Ambush card; and
•	 Terrain Benefits (see Reference Card); and
•	 Leader Combat value (9.1); OR 
•	 Strength of Supporting units (6.4); and
•	 Additional die rolls from Unit Cards of Supporting units (6.4).
The Defense Total is the total of:
•	 Defending unit’s strength; and
•	 Defense value of defending unit’s Unit Cards played; and
•	 Terrain Benefits; and
•	 Redoubt Benefits; and 
•	 Leader Combat value.
Step 7 - Combat Outcome: Compare the Attack and Defense Totals and 
determine the outcome by the chart below:
	 Attack Total is...	
Outcome
	 less than Defense Total	
all attacking/Supporting units take a Hit
	 equal to Defense Total	
no effect to either side
	 greater than Defense Total	
defender chooses: defending unit either 
Retreats or takes a Hit
	 greater than or equal to twice	
attacker chooses: defending unit either
	 the Defense Total	
Retreats or takes a Hit
	 greater than or equal to three	
defending unit takes a Hit and Retreats
	 times the Defense Total	
	 greater than or equal to four	
defending unit is Eliminated
	 times the Defense Total	
Apply the result as described in 6.5.
6.2 Bombardment and Volley Combat Procedure
Step 1: The Active Player names the attacking unit and must play a Unit Card 
which matches the attacking unit that includes a Bombardment or Volley value 
to initiate the combat. 
Unit Cards which have an artillery icon on them have a Bombardment value. 
Step 2: The Active Player names the target of the attack. In a Volley, this 
defending unit must be adjacent (not diagonally!) to the attacking unit. In a 
Bombardment, the defending unit may be up to two squares away. The two 
square distance may be traced via any path, except diagonally, but may not 

pass through any Hills, Towns, or Woods squares or a square containing units 
(friendly or enemy). The Bombardment may begin and/or end in a Hills, Town, 
or Woods square. In other words, if there is an intervening square between the 
attacker and the defender, it may not be a Hill, Town, Woods square or contain 
a unit (see illustration on page 19). The attacking unit may be in a Marsh square 
in a Volley or Bombardment. 
Step 3: Now determine the Attack and Defense Totals.
	 The Attack Total is the sum of:
	 •	 Die roll from the Unit Card; and
	 •	 Terrain Benefits.
	 The Defense Total is the sum of:
	 •	 Defending unit’s strength; and
	 •	 Terrain Benefits.
Step 4 – Combat Outcome: If the Attack Total is greater than the Defense 
Total, the defending unit takes a Hit. Otherwise, there is no effect. Apply the 
result as described in 6.5.
6.3 Terrain Effects on Combat
Each square on the battlefield is comprised of a specific type of terrain. Some 
terrain will yield a benefit to the Defense Total of any unit that occupies it and 
some terrain will yield a benefit to the Attack Total of an attacking/Supporting 
unit that occupies it. Most terrain will grant no combat advantages to either the 
Defense or Attack Total. Redoubts are a special type of terrain constructed during 
the course of a battle that adds to the terrain already present on the battlefield.
Refer to the Terrain Effects Chart on the Reference card for the specifics of each 
type of terrain.
6.4 Supporting Units
If the attacker plays a Leader card with a Command value of 2 or more, then 
additional units may contribute to the attack. The Command value defines 
how many units the Leader can lead in the attack. If the value is 1, only the 
designated attacking unit can be involved—so it does not make sense to use 
a Leader card for this purpose. If the value is 2, 3 or 4, then one, two, or 
three additional attacking units respectively, can be added to the attack if they 
are adjacent to the defending unit and meet all the other conditions normally 
required of an Assault (except the need to play a Unit Card). These additional 
units are called "supporting units". Supporting units automatically add their 
strength to the Attack value. In addition, Unit Cards for supporting units can 
be played to add additional die rolls given under their Attack value. If the 
Attack Total is less than the Defense Total, supporting units must take a hit in 
addition to the attacking unit.

6.5 Combat Results
Combat results include Eliminations, Hits and Retreats. An attacking unit may 
be able to Advance after combat or carry out Pursuit. Some results give a choice 
of outcomes to the affected unit. The player named may freely choose either 
Retreat or Hit, and that result is then implemented. 
The Active Player may choose Retreat instead of Hit even when the defending 
unit can not Retreat. This will cause the defending unit to be eliminated. This is 
a legal play.
Elimination
A result of Elimination completely removes the affected unit from the map, 
regardless of how many steps the unit possesses. 
Hit
A Hit result will either flip a full strength unit to its reduced strength side or 
Eliminate an already reduced strength unit.
Retreat
A Retreat result will force the affected unit to vacate its current square. A unit 
that Retreats is moved one square away from its current location. The choice of 
the direction of the Retreat must be directly towards the unit’s starting edge of 
the battlefield. If that square is blocked (by either friendly or enemy units), then 
the Retreat must be to either flank square, retreating player’s choice. A flank 
square is one not toward either side’s Starting Edge. If all three of these squares 
are blocked or are the map edge, then and only then the unit may retreat towards 
the enemy’s Starting Edge. If all four squares are blocked or are the map edge, 
then the unit may not retreat and is Eliminated instead.
Retreat Priority 1: Towards the 
friendly starting edge.
Retreat Priority 2: Towards the 
friendly starting edge is blocked so 
the unit retreats to the flank.

Withdrawal
Some cards allow units to voluntarily Withdraw. Withdrawal is performed 
exactly as if the unit was forced to Retreat. The Unit Card played to initiate the 
attack is still considered to have been used and must be discarded.
Advance After Combat
If the defending square is vacated by Retreat, Withdrawal or Elimination and 
the combat was an Assault, the attacking unit or any one of the Supporting units 
must Advance to occupy the defender's vacated square. However, some Unit 
Cards have the phrase “Not required to advance”. If one of these cards was 
played, that unit does not have to advance. If more than one unit was involved 
in the attack, all the units must have Unit Cards with this statement or one of 
the units must advance. No Advance After Combat is allowed in an Ambush, 
Bombardment or Volley.
6.6 Pursuit
If a defending unit Withdraws or Retreats, and a Cavalry unit advances into the 
vacated square, then that Cavalry unit may be able to inflict a hit or multiple 
hits on the Withdrawn/Retreated unit provided that specific unit played a card 
in the Combat. For each unit card played in the combat by the Pursuing Cavalry 
unit, the active player rolls a d6. If a leader with a Pursuit value was played for 
either of its Combat or Command values, the die roll is modified by the leader’s 
listed value. If the modified die roll is within the range listed under “Pursuit” 
value on the unit card, it means there is a Hit on the Withdrawing/Retreating 
unit. Roll separately for each card. A full strength unit can be eliminated by 
Pursuit if two Pursuit hits are achieved. Only Cavalry units have Pursuit values. 
If a supporting cavalry unit is advanced into the vacated space and no card was 
played for that unit there is no pursuit roll made.
Retreat Priority 3: The flanks and 
friendly start edge are blocked 
so the unit retreats towards the 
opponent’s starting edge.
No Retreat, Unit Eliminated: The French 
Unit is totally surrounded so if forced to 
retreat, it is eliminated.

6.7 Card Play and Combat
Some cards modify combat resolution. Details regarding the use of these cards 
and their effects are covered in rule 9.	
7 Restoration Phase
Restoration allows a reduced strength unit to flip over and return to being a full 
strength unit. Note: once a unit is eliminated, it may not return to the game. 
A unit can only be restored in the Restoration Phase and only through the play 
of a card. There are four cards which can be played to restore a unit. Only the 
Active Player may attempt Restoration. In the following ways, Restoration is 
automatically successful unless negated; flip the unit to its full strength side:
•	 Play a Supply or Regroup card to restore any one of your reduced units. This 
may be negated by a Guerrilla card.
•	 Play a Unit Card to restore that specific reduced unit. This is called a 
Reinforcement attempt and may be negated by a Guerrilla card.
In this last way, Restoration is not automatic:
•	 Play a Leader Card and announce a Restoration attempt for any of your 
reduced units.
After playing a Leader Card for Restoration, the Active Player must roll a d6. 
Restoration succeeds (and you flip the unit to its full strength side) if the roll is 
within the Leader Card’s range of Rally numbers. Otherwise, Restoration fails 
and you do not flip the unit to its full strength side. But there are no further 
effects.
Example: If a player with a French Army plays the Leader Card Nicolas Soult 
for Restoration, he succeeds if he rolls a 1, 2 or 3 on the d6. However, if he plays 
the Leader Card Michel Ney, he succeeds if he rolls a 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5.
Build a Redoubt: The Active Player may play one Redoubt HQ Card during the 
Restoration Phase after any Restoration attempt is made, but is not required to.
8 Anatomy of Unit Cards
All Unit Cards will have between two and four values on it from a choice of 
seven different categories. The following list has the details for each of these 
different categories.
Attack: This value is the number and type of dice which are rolled and added 
to the Attack value of a combat. A Unit Card with an Attack value must be 
played to initiate an Assault combat. Additional Unit Cards can be played for 
the attacking unit or Unit Cards can be played for Supporting units (described 
in rule 6.4). 

Defense: This value is added to the Defense value when a Unit Card matching 
the defending unit is played in a combat.
Bombard: This value lists the die or dice which is/are rolled to form the 
Attack value, along with any terrain benefit, when the Active Player initiates a 
Bombardment with this unit. 
Range: This is the maximum number of squares the defending unit in a Volley 
or Bombardment can be from the attacking unit. Remember this distance can 
not be counted diagonally. If the defending unit is located diagonally adjacent to 
the attacking unit, the range is 2 and one of the intervening squares must not be 
Woods, Hills, Town, or contain a unit.
Volley: This value lists the dice which are rolled to form the Attack value, along 
with any terrain benefit, when the Active Player initiates a Volley with this 
unit.
Pursuit: Only Cavalry units can have this value. This value is used to resolve 
a Pursuit situation and may inflict a Hit on a defending unit which retreated or 
withdrew.
Withdraw: This value is only located on United States Unit Cards. The 
US player may play a Unit Card matching the defending unit to attempt to 
Withdraw. To resolve the attempt, roll a d6. If the roll is within the range listed 
for Withdraw, the attempt is successful and resolved as if a Withdraw HQ Card 
had been played. The Withdrawal attempt is resolved before the defender must 
decide to play other cards in defense. If the Withdrawal attempt is unsuccessful, 
this card’s Defense value is added to the Defense Total.
Not Required to Advance: Some Unit Cards have this phrase, which only 
applies to an Assault. If one of these Unit Cards was played for an attacking or 
Supporting unit, then the Active Player has the choice whether to Advance or 
not with this unit. See 6.5 Advance After Combat.
9 Headquarter (HQ) Cards
9.1 Leader Cards
These cards can be used for one of several different purposes similar to how a 
Unit Card is used. 
Command: This value defines how many units the Leader can lead in an attack 
in a combat. See Supporting Units—6.4.
Combat: A Leader’s Combat value can be added directly to the Attack or Defense 
value in a combat. A Leader may only use either his Combat or Command value 
but not both in a combat. If you play a Leader with a Command value of 1 in a 
combat, you should always use the Combat value.

Rally: If a Leader Card is played in the Restoration Phase, the Active Player 
designates a unit he is attempting to restore and rolls a d6. If the number rolled 
is within the Rally range of the Leader, the designated unit is restored.
Pursuit: If a Leader was used for an attack, their Pursuit 
modifier is used to modify all Pursuit die rolls if there is 
one for this combat. This makes it easier for the pursuing 
Cavalry to inflict pursuit Hits. Note: some leaders in the 
game do not have a Pursuit value.
Grand Battery: Only Napoleon has this option. This 
allows a bombardment to be conducted from any French 
unit at a range of 2 squares. The attack value is 2d10 plus 
any terrain benefit. This does count as your one Combat 
for the turn.
9.2 Other Headquarter Cards 
Ambush
This card is the only way to initiate an Ambush combat. 
The Ambush is the one allowed combat for a player 
turn. All cards that are available during an Assault are 
also available for Ambush combat with the exception of 
Skirmish. If a leader is used to bring in adjacent units, 
the Ambush card counts as the first unit. An Ambush 
is considered to originate from within the square the 
defending unit occupies. If the defender occupies a square 
with any terrain, including hills, there is no benefit for the 
attacker although the defender still benefits. The defending 
unit may withdraw from this combat.
Committed Attack
These cards are played to add 2d6 to the Attack value of 
an Assault. However, one attacking or Supporting unit 
must take a Hit at the conclusion of the attack for each 
Committed Attack card played. These cards represent 
fateful decisions by commanders to take a position at all 
costs. The losses may be high, but hopefully the price will 
be worth it.
Forced March
These cards allow a unit that just moved to move one additional square. Units 
that begin or end their move in a Field or a Marsh square may not play a Forced 
March to extend their movement.

Guerrilla
These cards can be used to negate a Supply card, a Forced 
March card, a Regroup card or a unit card being used as 
a Reinforcement in the Restoration phase. The Guerrilla 
card is played immediately when these cards are played 
and both are discarded. This card can only be played in 
your opponent’s player turn-never your own. Guerrilla 
cards have no effect on combat.
Redoubt
The Active Player may play a Redoubt card during the Restoration Phase. Only 
one Redoubt card may be played in a player turn. Redoubts are temporary 
defensive positions built during the game. Redoubts add their +3 benefit to the 
Terrain Benefit of the square on which they are built. Redoubts provide their 
+3 no matter what side the attacker attacks from. When the unit occupying the 
Redoubt leaves the Redoubt square, for any reason, the Redoubt is removed 
from the map. Only one Redoubt may be placed in a square at a time. The mix 
of Redoubts in the game is not limiting so feel free to use units of other armies 
as spare Redoubts as needed.
Regroup
These cards allow the Active Player to Restore a reduced strength 
unit. Because of their preponderance of cavalry, the Ottoman 
Empire was not given Supply cards, but they needed cards which 
would allow them to Restore, so the Regroup card was created.
Sappers/Engineers
These cards negate the defensive value (+3) added by a Redoubt marker. The 
Redoubt is not removed. Its defensive value is simply ignored for the combat.
Skirmish
These cards allow the Active Player to cancel the combat they initiated. Play 
in Step 5 of the Assault procedure. The Active Player returns the Unit Card 
used to initiate the combat into their hand. All cards which were played by 
the Defending Player are discarded. The attacking unit may be moved up to 2 
squares in any combination of directions (except diagonally). The Active Player 
may not play a Leader Card during the same combat as a Skirmish card. The 
Active Player may not initiate another combat this player turn. A Skirmish card 
may not be played at all during an Ambush.
Scout/Spy
These cards allow the active player to examine the other player’s hand. Only 
the active player may play a Scout/Spy card. A Scout/Spy may be played in 
the midst of your draw phase allowing you to draw your hand up to 5, play the 
Scout/Spy and then continue drawing up to 5 cards again.

Supply
These cards allow the Active Player to Restore a reduced 
strength unit or to move a second unit during the 
Movement Phase.
Withdraw
These cards allow for the defending unit to voluntarily 
Retreat before an Assault or Ambush is resolved. It 
is played as the defender’s only card and ends the 
combat when played. The defending unit Retreats and 
the attacking unit advances, possibly able to execute a 
Pursuit. The combat is completed and the Unit Card used to initiate the Assault 
or Ambush is discarded. A Withdraw may not be used to avoid a Volley or 
Bombardment.
EXAMPLES OF BLOCKING LINE OF SIGHT: A and B are units with a 
Bombardment value. The squares that they may bombard are indicated with 
arrows. All the squares within their two space range that they cannot bombard 
are indicated with "No." Note that no diagonal bombardment is allowed and 
that a unit (indicated by U) blocks Line of Sight.

Credits
Game Design: Jeff Horger
System Design: Joe Roush
Art Director: Rodger B. MacGowan
Box Design: Rodger B. MacGowan
Map and Card Art: Knut Grünitz
Original Graphics & System Layout: Mike Brewer
Original Rules Editor: Neal Cebulskie
Intermediate Rules Layout and Editing: Allan Rothberg, Ellis Simpson, 
and Andy Lewis
Proof Reading: Steve Carey, Neil Randall
Playtesters: Michael Blumöhr, Niedra Cebulskie, Greg Ellison, Brandon 
Fraley, Carla Horger, Chuck Maher, Joe Valdez, Monica Valdez, Convention 
Attendees at CSW Expo, Origins, WBC, and GMT East and a host of other 
one-time participants.
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, Gene Billings-
ley and Mark Simonitch
Errata and FAQ Steward: Brad Hurst
Questions?
If there are any components damaged or missing, please contact us at: GMT 
Games, P. O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308. If you have any questions 
about the rules, we’ll be glad to answer them if you send them to that address 
with a self-addressed, stamped envelope. For faster response, we’re on the 
Internet at www.gmtgames.com. Or send an email to Jeff Horger [jagrcz68@
aol.com] or Andy Lewis [alewis@gmtgames.com]. You can also check out the 
game on Boardgame Geek at http://www.boardgamegeek.com/game/17396 
for information including an “Ask the Designer” thread set-up specifically to 
answer questions about the game.
GMT Games, LLC
P.O. Box 1308 • Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.gmtgames.com
(800) 523-6111