The House on the Hill
The moon loomed huge and awful in the sky. Rita was having second 
thoughts about the whole business, standing there alone under the eyes of 
the stars. The longer she stood there, looking up at the heavens, the further 
she saw, and the limitless gulf of infinity widened above her. She looked 
away, looked at the house sprawling on top of the hill, anything to avoid 
that awful moon, that impossible sky.
The house was not an improvement. Dark and monolithic, a silent 
sentinel looking down over the Miskatonic River valley below, over the 
sleeping city of Arkham, Massachusetts. Its silence was malevolent, and 
Rita could not believe she had thought she would go inside, missing 
students or no.
“Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible to feeling as to sight?” The voice 
came from down the hill, pitched to carry, and Rita could see Yorick 
approaching, a lantern glowing in one hand. “Or art thou but a dagger of 
the mind, a false creation, proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?” She 
stepped out from where she lurked under an apple tree, waving. She had 
never been so happy to see the loony old man in her life.
“What,” she said, “is Horatio there?”
“A piece of him,” Yorick answered. He flourished a bow. “Enter the 
gravedigger, stage right. Is our company assembled?”
“Jes’ you and me so far, Yorick.” She looked back up the hill at the evil 
house. “I guess no one else is comin’. Might as well head home and get 
some sleep.”
“Screw your courage to the sticking place, my friend.” The gravedigger 
clapped her on the shoulder. He smelled of earth, of normal things she 
could touch and taste. Infinity did not seem so bad. “The others will be 
along directly.” He nodded along the lane, and Rita turned. Light stabbed 
through the darkness, and soon became a pair of headlights, careening 
and caroming up the street ahead of a growling and, to Rita’s eyes, quite 
expensive automobile.
The car came to a stop and quieted, the lights flickering out. Preston 
Fairmont stepped out of the driver’s side door, followed by an odd-looking 
old white lady Rita had never seen before; Agatha Crane, she presumed.
“Now, listen,” said Fairmont, first to speak as always. “I have been having 
some second thoughts about all this. First of all, it is not at all proper to be 
bringing a young girl and a … uh …”
“Old lady?” suggested Agatha with a grin that Rita decided looked 
dangerous.
“Yes. Quite. Well. Anyway, it is only natural that you would be frightened 
by such a–”
“If your driving did not frighten me, I do not see how anything inside that 
house can.” Agatha stepped toward Rita and extended one hand. “Agatha 
Crane, Parapsychologist. You must be Rita.”
“Yes’m,” said Rita.
“And unless I miss my guess, this is William Yorick, our resident thespian.” 
Yorick gave his little bow again.
“The lady is too kind. The dead are my only audience these days, although 
I could not ask for any more attentive than they.”
“Then we are all here. Let us be about our business.” The old lady 
pulled open the leather satchel in her hand and settled the oddest piece 
of headgear Rita had ever seen over her soft, white curls. It was like a 
jeweler’s eyepiece, with extra lenses on delicate, wire arms.
They pushed through the gate, Fairmont bringing up the rear and 
complaining. “Technically, this is breaking and entering,” he said. “We 
have no legal right to be here! If I am caught, it could be incredibly 
embarrassing for my business associates.”
“I thought you bought the house,” murmured Rita. The closer the awful 
thing grew, the stronger the urge to whisper, as if not to wake it.
“I tried to buy the house, which is how we found out who owns it now, 
yes. But the sale was never completed, because the—look, really, oughtn’t 
we come back in the morning?”
A scream cut through the night air from somewhere inside the mansion, 
and Agatha stomped up the steps to reach for the door handle.
“No,” said Fairmont, tugging at his tie. “No, I suppose not.”
Game Overview
Mansions of Madness is a cooperative game of investigation and horror 
inspired by the writings of H. P. Lovecraft. During each game, one 
to five players explore a location to unravel a mystery. Players must 
work together to overcome the challenges presented to them by a fully 
integrated companion app.
Mansions of Madness is a cooperative game. All players are on the same 
team and win or lose the game together. The investigators’ ultimate 
goal is to explore the scenario’s map and piece together the evidence 
and clues required to solve the mystery.
In addition, investigators need to overcome various challenges, 
including fending off terrible creatures, befriending non-player 
characters, and solving puzzles.
Using this Booklet
This Learn to Play booklet is designed to teach new players 
how to play Mansions of Madness. Players should read this 
booklet in its entirety before playing their first game.
In an effort to teach the game quickly and simply, this booklet 
omits many rules and game interactions. Questions that arise 
during gameplay are best answered by the Rules Reference.
Download the App
To download the Mansions of Madness 
app, search for Mansions of Madness on the 
Apple iOS AppStore™, Google Play™ store, 
or Amazon Appstore. Alternately, you can 
download the app for Mac or Windows from 
our website at FantasyFlightGames.com.

Components
40 Common Item Cards
37 Condition Cards
24 Unique Item Cards
40 Damage Cards
Resolve Immediately
No additional effect.
Flip this card facedown.
Only a flesh wound.
Minor Injury
30 Spell Cards
You feel your mind expanding 
as the universe spins around 
you (; 2).
If you pass, you are able to 
reconcile your new sense of 
the cosmos with your existing 
paradigm; no additional effect.
If you fail, you realize that 
everything you have known 
is wrong; suffer 1 facedown 
Horror.
Then discard this card and gain 
another Feed the Mind Spell.
40 Horror Cards
Resolve Immediately
No additional effect.
Flip this card facedown.
Ah! Your heart races, and your 
breath catches in your throat. 
Minor Shock
The Parapsych
olog
ist
Agatha 
Cr
an
e
8 Investigator Cards & Matching Figures
Rules Reference
24 Map Tiles
16 Search / 
Interact Tokens
16 Explore / 
Sight Tokens
22 Person Tokens
18 Fire / 
Darkness Tokens
4 Secret Passage 
Tokens
4 Barricade Tokens
24 Monster Tokens & Matching Figures
8 Wall Tokens
4 Door Tokens
5 Dice
First Edition 
Conversion Kit
26 Clue Tokens
6 ID Tokens

Setup
Before playing each game, perform the following steps in order. The setup diagram on page 5 shows an example of these steps.
1. Create Card Decks
Separate the Investigator cards from all other cards. They will be used 
later during setup. Then separate all other cards into decks by card type.
^ Shuffle the Damage and Horror decks individually and place them 
facedown within reach of all players.
^ Organize the cards in the Common Item, Unique Item, Spell, and 
Condition decks alphabetically and place them faceup within reach 
of all players. This will make it easier to find cards when they are 
needed during the game.
2. Organize Map Tiles
Gather all map tiles and organize them by tile size. This will make it 
easier to find tiles when they are needed during the game.
3. Organize Monsters
Make sure that each monster figure has a matching token slotted 
into its base. See “Monster Figure Reference” on page 22 of the 
Rules Reference.
4. Create Token Pools
Separate all tokens into pools by token type.
5. Choose Scenario
Run the Mansions of Madness app and press “New Game.” Players, as a 
group, decide which story to play and input their selection in the app.
6. Choose Investigators
Each player chooses an investigator, taking the Investigator card and 
figure for that investigator. Then input the selected investigators in the 
app. Hereafter, players will be referred to as “investigators.”
If playing with only a single player, that player chooses two 
investigators and controls both of them.
Unused Investigator cards and figures are returned to the game box.
7. Gain Starting Possessions
Investigators, as a group, gain the specific Common Items, Spells, or 
other possessions as instructed by the app. These possessions may be 
distributed among the investigators however they decide.
8. Read Prologue and Reveal Entrance
Perform the remaining steps of setup as instructed by the app.
A.	 Read aloud the scenario’s prologue as shown by the app. The 
story’s prologue might provide hints about what is to come.
B.	 Place the starting map tile and Investigator figures as instructed 
C.	 Place Search tokens, Explore tokens, and other tokens as 
instructed by the app.
D.	Perform any other steps as instructed by the app.
When setup is complete, the app will automatically progress to the first 
round’s investigator phase. See “Playing the Game” on page 4.
Playing the Game
Mansions of Madness is played over a series of game rounds. Each 
round consists of two phases that are resolved in the following order:
1.	 Investigator Phase: Investigators perform actions to move about 
the game board, explore their surroundings, and attack monsters.
2.	 Mythos Phase: The app indicates monster actions and generates 
mythos effects. These effects might spawn monsters or raise other 
challenges that investigators will need to overcome.
After the mythos phase each round, investigators start a new round 
beginning with the investigator phase. Players continue resolving 
game rounds until they have won or lost the game.
These phases are described in detail on the following pages and 
summarized on the last page of the Rules Reference.
First Game
For their first game, players are recommended to play the 
“Cycle of Eternity” scenario. This scenario is shorter and less 
complex than the other scenarios, making it well suited for 
learning the game.
Before choosing a scenario, if you own the first edition 
Mansions of Madness base game and/or any of its expansions, 
you can integrate the components of those products as 
described by the Conversion Kit rules insert.
Players can play any investigators from the integrated first 
edition products, and the app can use any of the monsters 
or map tiles from those products during the game.

Setup Diagram For Two Players
Roll 1 additional die while 
resolving a  test.
ArcAne mAnuscript
“A bloodied pipe was found at 
the scene of the crime. The cause 
of death is still unknown.”
—Deputy Dingby
leAD pipe
discard 1 Damage. Then 
Flesh Ward
Action: Discard up to 
2 facedown Damage. 
Then discard this card.
BAnDAges
The Parapsych
olog
ist
Agatha 
Cr
an
e
Action: Another investigator 
within range may perform 
1 action. Activate this ability 
only once per round.
The Butl
er
Carson S
in
cla
ir

Investigator Phase
During the investigator phase, each investigator performs up to two 
actions. Performing actions is the primary way in which investigators 
move about the game board and interact with their surroundings.
The investigators take turns in the order of their choice. On an 
investigator’s turn, he performs up to two actions of his choice. 
Then the next investigator takes his turn, and so on, until each 
investigator has taken a turn.
During the investigator phase, investigators can perform the following 
actions. The detailed rules for these actions are explained in the 
following sections.
Move Action
The investigator moves his investigator figure up to two spaces, 
moving one space at a time, from one space to an adjacent space. 
He cannot move through walls or impassable borders unless an 
effect specifically allows it.
If an investigator attempts to move out of a space that contains a 
monster, he must first resolve an evade check. See “Evading Monsters” 
on page 14.
Explore Action
The investigator uses the app to explore an adjacent room. 
To do so, he taps the Explore token that corresponds to the 
area he wants to explore. Then he confirms his action by selecting 
the “ Explore” option.
The investigator resolves the effects as instructed by the app. 
The effect indicates which map tile or tiles to place as well as 
any Search, Interact, Person, or other tokens.
After all tiles and tokens have been placed, the investigator may 
move into the explored area as instructed by the app.
Map Tile Breakdown
1.	 Space: An area of a map tile separated from other spaces 
by borders, impassable borders, walls, or doors.
2.	 Border: Represented by a solid white or yellow 
line. Borders divide large areas into multiple spaces. 
Investigators and monsters can move through borders.
3.	 Impassable Border: Represented by a white or yellow 
dashed border. Investigators and monsters cannot move 
through impassable borders unless an effect specifically 
allows it.
4.	 Wall: Represented by a brown border. Investigators and 
monsters cannot move through walls unless an effect 
specifically allows it.
5.	 Door: Represented by a rectangular gap in a wall. 
Investigators and monsters can move through doors.
6.	 Room: A group of spaces separated from other rooms by 
walls, doors, yellow borders, yellow impassable borders, or 
the edges of map tiles. Each room has a single name that 
refers to all spaces in the room as a group.

Search Action
The investigator uses the app to search something of interest in 
his space. To do so, he taps a Search token in his space. Then 
he confirms his action by selecting the “ Search” option.
The investigator resolves the effect as instructed by the app which 
might include a skill test, declared as a skill icon embedded in 
parentheses following a short narrative.
For example, “You dig through the dense paperwork cluttering the desk, 
looking for anything of interest ()” instructs the investigator to test 
his observation ().
See “Skill Tests” on page 13.
Trade Action
The investigator may give any number of Common Items, Unique 
Items, or Spells to each other investigator in his space and allow 
those investigators to give him any number of their possessions. 
Additionally, he may pick up or drop any number of the Common 
Items, Unique Items, or Spells in his space.
Interact Action
The investigator uses the app to interact with a person or object in 
his space. To do so, he taps a Person or Interact token in his space. 
Then he confirms his action by selecting an option preceded by 
the action icon ().
The investigator resolves the effect as instructed by the app which 
might include additional decisions or a skill test.
Component Actions
Some components or effects allow 
investigators to perform component 
actions. Component actions are 
described by the component or 
effect that allows the investigator 
to perform that action.
Component actions on cards are 
preceded by the word “Action” in 
bold and can be performed by the 
investigator who has that card.
Some items allow investigators to 
perform a component action by 
using the app. To do this, the 
investigator opens the inventory by 
pressing the inventory button in the bottom-left corner of the 
screen and selects the Item.
Then he confirms his action by selecting an option preceded by the 
action icon (). The investigator resolves the effect as instructed 
Using the App to 
Perform Actions
Performing the explore action, search action, interact action, 
and some component actions requires using the app. An 
investigator may tap any token in the app to inspect it. Doing 
so does not require an action, and an investigator can inspect 
a token even if the token is not in his space.
^ An investigator cannot select an option that is preceded by 
the action icon () unless he spends an action to do so. 
Performing the explore, search, or interact action allows 
the investigator to select such an option.
Inventory Button
Action: Discard up to 
2 facedown Damage. 
Then discard this card.
BAnDAges

Attack Action
The investigator uses the app to attack a monster. To do this, 
he selects the monster that he wants to attack from the monster 
drawer (1). Then he presses the “Attack” button (2).
The investigator must choose how he wants to attack and confirm his 
action by selecting one of the following options (3)—“ Attack with 
a Heavy Weapon”, “ Attack with a Bladed Weapon”, “ Attack with 
a Firearm”, “ Attack with a Spell”, or “ Attack Unarmed.”
After selecting his attack type, he resolves the effect—which often 
includes a skill test—as instructed by the app. The investigator uses 
the “+” and “–” buttons in the monster menu to record the damage 
the monster has suffered (4).
An investigator using a weapon or spell with the melee icon can attack 
only a monster in his space. An investigator using a weapon or spell 
with the ranged icon can attack any monster within range.
End of Investigator Phase
After all investigators have taken a turn, one of them presses the 
end phase button in the bottom-right corner of the screen to end 
the investigator phase and proceed to the mythos phase.
Range
Some effects, such as ranged attacks, horror checks, and 
monster effects, rely on range. The maximum range of these 
effects is three spaces. Range cannot be counted through walls 
or doors unless an effect specifically allows it.
Melee Icon
Ranged Icon
End Phase Button
Selecting a Monster
To select a monster, an investigator opens the monster drawer 
by pressing the monster drawer button. Then he presses a 
monster’s icon in the drawer to select it.
This will open the monster menu from which an investigator 
can attack or evade the monster or alter the amount of 
damage the monster has suffered.
Monster Drawer Button

Attack Action Example
Carson Sinclair uses the attack action to attack a Deep One in his space.
1.	 He opens the monster drawer by pressing the monster 
drawer button in the bottom-left corner of the screen and 
selects the Deep One.
2.	 He presses the “Attack” button.
3.	 Carson decides to attack with his Crowbar, a Heavy Weapon. 
He selects the “ Attack with a Heavy Weapon” option.
4.	 The app instructs him to test his strength (). He does so 
by rolling dice equal to the  value printed on his card.
5.	 He rolls two success results () and one blank result. The 
test declaration in the app indicates a test difficulty of two, 
meaning he needs two success results to pass.
6.	 Having passed the test, Carson causes the Deep One to 
suffer damage equal to his weapon’s damage (2) plus his 
test result (2) as instructed by the app.
7.	 Finally, Carson records the damage that the Deep One has 
suffered by using the app.
A hefty tool for getting 
the job done right.
crowBAr
A hefty tool for getting 
the job done right.
crowBAr

Mythos Phase
During the mythos phase, the app generates a number of effects to be 
resolved by the investigators. There are three types of effects that the 
app can generate—mythos events, monster activations, and horror 
checks. These effects are described in the following sections.
Mythos Events
Mythos events are effects generated by the app during the mythos 
phase. Mythos events might be related to the specific scenario 
investigators have chosen or the actions the investigators have 
performed during the round.
The investigators resolve the effects as instructed by the app.
After all mythos events for the round have been resolved, the app will 
generate instructions for activating monsters. If there are no monsters 
on the board, the mythos phase will end automatically instead.
Monster Activations
The app generates instructions for activating each monster, one at 
a time. These instructions will describe how to move each monster 
and how each monster attacks. Investigators resolve the effects as 
instructed by the app.
See the “Monster Activation Example” diagram on page 11.
After all monsters have activated for the round, the app will instruct 
investigators to resolve horror checks.
Horror Checks
The app instructs each investigator to resolve a horror check against a 
single monster within range.
Each investigator resolves a horror check against the monster within 
range with the highest horror rating. If an investigator is not within 
range of any monsters, he does not resolve a horror check.
To resolve a horror check against a monster, the investigator selects the 
monster from the monster drawer and resolves the effect as instructed 
After all investigators have finished resolving horror checks, one of 
them presses the end phase button in the bottom-right corner of the 
screen to end the mythos phase and begin the next round, 
starting with a new investigator phase.
Winning the Game
During setup, players select a scenario that determines what the 
investigators need to do to win the game. However, this objective is 
hidden from the investigators.
During the game, the investigators must unravel the mystery and 
discover their ultimate goal. The investigators can do so by listening 
carefully to the scenario’s prologue and carefully examining each hint 
they discover throughout their investigation.
After the investigation has progressed enough, the objective will 
be revealed, giving the investigators one final task to complete the 
investigation. Investigators win the game when the investigation 
is complete.
If the investigators take too long to complete the investigation, 
the scenario’s objective might change or become more difficult 
to accomplish. If the investigators continue to take too long, 
investigators will lose the game.
A Mythos Event
A Horror Check Effect

Monster Activation Example
During the mythos phase, the app opens the monster menu and generates the effects of each monster’s activation.
1.	 The app generates movement instructions for the Deep One 
and specifies which investigator the Deep One attacks.
2.	 The investigators follow the app instructions by moving the 
Deep One toward the nearest investigator.
3.	 The Deep One attacks the investigator in its space who has 
suffered the most Damage. Agatha selects the “The monster 
attacks.” option, and the app generates the effects of the 
Deep One’s attack.
4.	 The effect instructs Agatha to test her strength (). She does 
so by rolling dice equal to the  value printed on her card.
5.	 She rolls one success result () and one blank result. 
Unable to reroll dice or convert any other results to , 
she continues to resolve the effect.
6.	 The effect generated by the app instructs Agatha to suffer 
two facedown Damage negated by the result of her  test. 
Agatha’s single  negates one facedown Damage, but she 
suffers the remaining one facedown Damage.
Having completely resolved the effect, Agatha presses the 
“Continue” button. The Deep One’s activation is complete.

Additional Rules
This section includes additional rules not previously discussed, including skill tests, cards, features, monsters, and puzzles.
Damage & Horror
Many game effects cause investigators to suffer Damage or Horror. 
When an effect causes an investigator to suffer Damage or Horror, he 
draws the top card of the Damage or Horror deck, respectively. He 
claims the card faceup unless the effect specifies otherwise.
Each Damage or Horror card has one of two traits—Resolve 
Immediately or Keep Faceup. When an investigator claims a faceup 
Damage or Horror with the Resolve Immediately trait, he immediately 
resolves its effect which usually includes flipping the card facedown. A 
Damage or Horror with the Keep Faceup trait, will have a lasting effect 
for as long as the card remains faceup.
Wounded
When an investigator has suffered Damage (whether faceup or 
facedown) equal to his health, that investigator becomes Wounded. 
When an investigator becomes Wounded, he gains a Wounded 
Condition and discards all of his facedown Damage. While Wounded, 
an investigator cannot perform the move action more than once 
each round.
When a Wounded investigator has suffered Damage equal to his 
health, that investigator is eliminated.
Insane
When an investigator has suffered Horror (whether faceup or 
facedown) equal to his sanity, that investigator becomes Insane.
When an investigator becomes Insane, he gains an Insane Condition 
and discards all of his facedown Horror cards. He reads the back of 
his Insane Condition, but he cannot reveal the back of the card to the 
other investigators.
An investigator’s Insane Condition might alter how that investigator 
wins and loses the game. In such a case, he may want to perform one 
or more actions that he would not otherwise want to perform. See 
“Rarely Used Actions” on the last page of the Rules Reference.
Each Insane Condition has a required number of investigators which 
is indicated on the bottom-right corner on the back of the card. 
When an investigator gains an Insane Condition, if the number of 
investigators is less than the required number of investigators, he 
discards that card and gains a different copy of the Insane Condition.
If an Insane investigator has suffered Horror equal to his sanity, that 
investigator is eliminated.
Eliminated
When an investigator is eliminated, he drops all of his possessions 
in his space and removes his investigator figure from the board. The 
remaining investigators have a single additional investigator phase to 
attempt to complete their investigation. At the end of that investigator 
phase, if the investigators did not complete the investigation, they lose 
the game. One of them selects the “Investigator Eliminated” option 
from the in-game menu to end the game.
Look at the back of this 
card but do not reveal it to 
other investigators.
When you have suffered 
Horror equal to your Sanity, 
you are eliminated.
Insane
pyroMAniA
Fire keeps you warm, and it 
keeps away the darkness. The 
only way you will be safe is if 
you light as many beautiful, 
beautiful fires as you can.
You do not win the game 
as normal. At the start of 
your turn, if 6 or more 
rooms contain Fire, you 
immediately win the game 
and the game ends. If the 
game ends for any other 
reason, you lose the game.
Health
Sanity
Streng
Ag
ObSer
lO
influ

Skill Tests
A skill test represents a physical, mental, or social challenge an 
investigator must overcome. Skill tests are declared using their skill 
icon embedded in parentheses following a short narrative. When an 
investigator is resolving an effect that includes a skill icon in the text, 
he must immediately test that skill.
To resolve a test, the investigator rolls a number of dice equal to 
his value in the indicated skill. The number of success results () 
rolled is called the test result. The test declaration might also indicate 
a modifier, such as “–1,” which causes the investigator to roll more or 
fewer dice for the skill test. Investigators roll a minimum of one die 
for each test.
For example, “You uncover a series of strange cryptic runes carved into 
the wall (–1)” instructs the investigator to test his lore () rolling 
one fewer die than normal.
After rolling dice during a test, an investigator may spend a Clue to 
convert a single investigation result () to a success result (). He 
may do so multiple times as long as he spends a Clue for each  he 
converts. He determines his test result after resolving all conversions.
Negating Damage & Horror
Some effects cause an investigator to suffer multiple Damage or 
Horror at the same time but allow him to resolve a skill test to negate 
some or all of the Damage or Horror. To do so, the investigator tests 
the indicated skill. He prevents one Damage or one Horror for each 
success result () rolled.
Skill Test Difficulty
Some skill test declarations include a test difficulty embedded in the 
parentheses separated from the skill icon by a semicolon. This number 
indicates the number of success results () required to pass the test. 
If the investigator does not roll enough , he fails the test.
For example, “The beast charges at you (; 2)” instructs the investigator 
to test his agility () with a difficulty of two. If the investigator rolls two 
or more , he passes the test.
Skill Tests in the App
Some skill test declarations included in app instructions require the 
investigator to input his test result. In such a case, the investigator uses 
the “+” and “–” buttons to input his test result.
The number of success results () required to pass is unknown. 
However, even if the investigator fails the test, the app remembers 
how many  were previously rolled. Future attempts to pass the test 
will require fewer .
Message Log
During the game, all messages displayed by the app are recorded 
in the message log. Players may access the message log at any 
time by selecting “Message Log” from the in-game menu.
The message log is organized by round and allows the players 
to reread any messages shown by the app throughout the 
course of the game.
In-game Menu Button
An investigator inputs his test result using the app

Monsters
Monsters represent aberrant and eldritch creatures and the cultists and 
other worshipers of those creatures.
Monster Token
Each monster token includes a number of pieces of game information 
as described below.
1.	 Awareness: A monster’s awareness is referenced when an 
investigator resolves an evade check in a space that contains 
multiple monsters.
2.	 Horror Rating: A monster’s horror rating is referenced when 
an investigator resolves a horror check within range of multiple 
monsters.
3.	 Brawn: A monster’s brawn represents its physical prowess and is 
referenced by various effects. See “Barricades” on page 16.
4.	 Abilities & Flavor Text: A monster’s abilities, if it has any, are 
defined on the token’s back. A monster’s flavor text gives a brief 
thematic description of the creature’s appearance and behavior.
ID Tokens
ID tokens are used to mark unique monsters and to differentiate 
monsters from others of the same type.
When a monster is spawned, the app might indicate one of the six 
ID tokens to be assigned to that monster. An investigator places the 
specified ID token in the monster figure’s base.
A monster retains its ID token for as long as it remains in play.
Evading Monsters
If an investigator in a space containing a monster attempts to leave 
his space or perform an action other than the attack action or move 
action, that investigator must first evade the monster. If there are 
multiple monsters in the investigator’s space, he must evade only the 
monster with the highest awareness.
To evade a monster, an investigator selects the monster in his space 
from the monster drawer. Then the investigator presses the “Evade” 
button and resolves the effect as instructed by the app.
After evading a monster, the investigator performs his action as 
normal unless the effect states that his action is forfeit.
^ If the investigator forfeits his action, he loses his action without 
resolving any part of its effect. If an investigator forfeits his action 
while moving, he loses any remaining movement and does not 
leave his space.
See the “Evade Check Example” diagram on page 15.
Items
Common Items and Unique Items represent the various objects 
the investigators encounter during their investigations. When an 
investigator gains an item, he claims the card faceup (art side faceup).
Some Items have a unique back. An investigator may read the back of 
an item at any time.
Spells
Spells represent the tomes or scrolls containing the knowledge 
required to harness eldritch powers. When an investigator gains a 
Spell, he claims a random copy of that Spell faceup (art side faceup). 
An investigator cannot look at the back of a Spell until an effect causes 
the Spell to flip.
Whenever an investigator casts a Spell, the Spell’s effect instructs the 
investigator to flip the card. When he flips the card, he immediately 
resolves the effect on its back. This effect typically includes discarding 
the card and gaining a new copy of that Spell.
Conditions
Conditions represent intangible status effects that alter how an 
investigator can act. Occasionally, an effect will cause an investigator 
to gain a Condition. For example, “become Stunned” causes the 
investigator to gain the Stunned Condition.

Evade Check Example
Agatha Crane wants to move to the Search token in the office, 
but she will need to move away from the Deep One to do so.
1.	 She attempts to move out of the Deep One’s space, but she 
must resolve an evade check.
2.	 She selects the Deep One from the monster drawer and 
presses the “Evade” button.
3.	 The app generates an effect for her evade check.
4.	 The effect instructs Agatha to test her agility (). She does so 
by rolling dice equal to the  value printed on her card.
5.	 She rolls two investigation results () and one blank 
result. Agatha needs two success results to pass, so she 
spends two Clues to convert both  to .
6.	 Agatha resolves the pass effect as instructed by the app. 
The Deep One suffers one damage. Agatha was not 
instructed to forfeit her action, so she resolves her action 
as normal; she moves into the other space of the office.
Agatha can now perform the second action of her turn. 
Because she is no longer in the same space as a monster, 
she does not need to resolve an evade check.
office 

Features
Features represent noteworthy furnishings or environmental effects that investigators can interact with or that affect how an investigator can 
interact with his surroundings. All features are square tokens. Interacting with a feature does not require the app.
Barricades
A Barricade allows an investigator to block a door to 
prevent monsters from getting through. As an action, 
an investigator in a space containing a Barricade 
may move the Barricade against a door or move the 
Barricade away from the door it blocks.
Investigators and monsters cannot move through blocked doors. 
However, a monster can destroy a Barricade that blocks its path.
If a monster attempts to move through a blocked door, it rolls a 
number of dice equal to its brawn. If it rolls two or more success 
results (), the Barricade is discarded and the monster moves as 
normal. Otherwise, the monster does not move.
Darkness
Darkness hinders an investigator’s ability to resolve 
skill tests and puzzles. An investigator in a space 
containing Darkness cannot spend Clues to convert 
dice results or perform additional puzzle steps.
Each investigator in or adjacent to a space containing a Light Source 
or Fire ignores the effects of Darkness.
Fire
Fire spreads and can damage investigators and 
monsters. Whenever an investigator moves into a 
space containing Fire or performs an action in a space 
containing Fire, he suffers one facedown Damage.
Whenever a monster starts its activation in a space containing Fire 
or moves into a space containing Fire, it suffers one damage.
As an action, an investigator may attempt to extinguish the flames by 
testing his agility (). For each success result () he rolls, he may 
discard one Fire token from his space or a space he moves into if he 
moves as part of his second action or later in the round.
At the beginning of each mythos phase, fire spreads. If one or more 
spaces contain Fire, place one Fire token in a space adjacent to a 
space that contains Fire.
Secret Passages
An investigator or monster in a space containing a 
Secret Passage can move to any other space containing 
a Secret Passage as if those spaces were adjacent.

Puzzles
Occasionally, an investigator will encounter an effect that requires 
him to solve a puzzle. Puzzles represent complex logical, magical, or 
physical challenges the investigators must overcome to complete their 
investigation. Puzzles are resolved in their entirety using the app.
The types of puzzles—slide puzzle, lock puzzle, and code puzzle—are 
described on the right and on page 18.
Puzzle Steps
A puzzle step is a single unit of progress toward solving a puzzle, 
and the types of puzzle steps the investigator can perform are defined 
by the type of puzzle he is resolving as indicated by the app.
Whenever an effect instructs an investigator to attempt a puzzle, that 
investigator performs a number of puzzle steps equal to his value in 
the skill indicated by that effect.
While attempting a puzzle, an investigator may spend any 
number of his Clues to perform one additional puzzle step for 
each Clue spent.
After an investigator has performed all of his allotted puzzle steps, 
if the puzzle is not solved, he presses the “Close” button. The 
investigator’s progress will be saved so that he or another investigator 
can continue solving the puzzle at a later time.
Solving a Puzzle
The app will automatically detect when a puzzle is solved. At which 
point, the investigator who solved the puzzle will continue resolving 
his action as instructed by the app.
Slide Puzzle
A slide puzzle is a type of puzzle in which an investigator attempts to 
assemble an image that has been split into six or more pieces. The pieces 
of a slide puzzle are displayed in a grid and randomized.
As a puzzle step, an investigator can swap any two adjacent pieces by 
dragging one of them over the other.
The puzzle is solved when all pieces of the puzzle are in the correct 
position and the puzzle’s image is properly displayed.

Code Puzzle
A code puzzle is a type of puzzle in which an investigator attempts to 
determine a code made of three or more pieces—numbers or runes. The 
unique pieces that can make up the code are displayed at the top of 
the screen, and each piece can be used any number of times.
As a puzzle step, an investigator can guess the code. He does so 
by dragging one piece into each of the current guess brackets (1) and 
selecting “Guess” (2).
After submitting a guess, the investigator will receive information 
about his guess (3). The app will mark each incorrect guess with a 
number of success results () and investigation results ().
Each  indicates that a single piece of the guess is the correct piece 
and is correctly positioned within the code. Each  indicates that 
the guess contains a single correct piece, but that piece is not in the 
correct position.
The puzzle is solved when the investigator guesses the correct code.
Lock Puzzle
A lock puzzle is a type of puzzle in which an investigator attempts to 
maneuver pieces in a grid to allow the visually unique goal piece to be 
removed from the grid.
As a puzzle step, an investigator can move any piece by dragging it. A 
piece can be moved only in the direction of its orientation—vertically 
or horizontally. However, no two pieces can occupy the same space of 
the grid, and a piece cannot be moved through other pieces.
The puzzle is solved when the goal piece is moved to the far right side 
of the grid.
What Now?
Now that you have read this Learn to Play booklet, you are 
ready to play your first game! As questions arise during play, 
consult the Rules Reference.

Code Puzzle Example
Agatha Crane is attempting a code puzzle using her lore (). 
Her  is five, so she can make five guesses.
1.	 She inputs an initial guess of “123” which yields one success 
result () and one investigation result (). From this she 
learns two of the guessed numbers exist in the code but only 
one is correctly positioned.
2.	 Agatha needs more information, so she inputs a second 
guess of “234.” A single  indicates one of the guessed 
numbers exists in the code but is not correctly positioned. 
From this, she learns that there is a “1” in the code but not 
a “4.” She also knows the code contains a “2” or a “3” but 
not both.
3.	 She wants to know if the code contains a “2” or a “3” so she 
inputs a third guess of “222” which yields zero results. She 
now knows the code contains a “3” and not a “2.”
4.	 Knowing there is a “1” and a “3,” Agatha guesses “135.” 
At last! Three  indicate that all three numbers exist in 
the code though none of them are correctly positioned.
5.	 Agatha reviews what she has learned so far. She notices the 
“1” in her first guess is in the same position as the “1” in her 
most recent guess. This means the “1” must account for the 
 from the first set of results, and the “3” must have been 
correctly positioned. With the “3” in the third position, the 
“1” must belong in the second position since it does not 
belong in the first position. This leaves only the first position 
for the “5.”
Agatha inputs her final guess of “513” and solves the puzzle.

Credits
Second Edition Game Design: Nikki Valens
First Edition Game Design: Corey Konieczka
Scenario Design: Kara Centell-Dunk and Andrew Fischer
Additional Content Development: Glen Aro, Daniel Lovat Clark, 
Nathan I. Hajek, Grace Holdinghaus, Robert Martens, 
Becca Olene, Alexandar Ortloff, and Jonathan Ying
Editing and Proofreading: Adam Baker and Molly Glover
Arkham Horror Story Team: Andy Christensen, Matthew Newman, 
Katrina Ostrander, and Nikki Valens
Graphic Design: WiL Springer with Evan Simonet, Shaun Boyke, 
Christopher Hosch, and Ryan Thompson
Managing Graphic Designer: Brian Schomburg
Cover Art: Jacob Murray
Investigator Art: Cristi Balanescu, Tony Foti, Jacob Murray, 
and Magali Villeneuve
Map Tile Art: Yoann Boissonnet
Additional Interior Art: The artists of Call of Cthulhu LCG 
and Arkham Horror Files products
Art Director: Zoë Robinson
Managing Art Director: Andy Christensen
Sculptor: Cory DeVore
Plastics Design Coordinator: Niklas Norman
Software Development: Mark Jones, Paul Klecker, Francesco Moggia, 
and Gary Storkamp
Digital Creative Director: Andrew Navaro
Digital Executive Producer: Keith Hurley
Production Management: Jason Beaudoin and Megan Duehn
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Quality Assurance Coordinator: Zach Tewalthomas
Playtesting: Brad Andres, Audrey Bailey, Samuel W. Bailey, 
Dane Beltrami, Chiara Bertulessi, Simone Biga, Ian Birdsall, 
Forrest Bower, Joseph Bozarth, Nayt Brookes, Frank Brooks, 
Chris Brown, John D. Curtis, John W. Curtis III, Kathleen Curtis, 
Caterina D’Agostini, Andrea Dell’Agnese, Julia Faeta, Jason Glawe, 
Branden Haines, Matt Holland, Alene Horner, Jason Horner, 
Julien Horner, Evan Johnson, Justin Kemppainen, James Kniffen, 
Matthew Landis, Mark Larson, Lukas Litzsinger, Andrea Marmiroli, 
James Meier, Kathleen Miller, Heather Minke, Maegan Mohr, 
Michelle McCarthy, Anton Torres, Janie True, Quentin True, 
Jason Walden, Paul Winchester
Special thanks to all of our beta testers.
© 2016 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. No part of this product may be reproduced 
without specific permission. Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., 
registered in the United States and/or foreign countries. App Store is a service mark of 
Apple Inc. Google Play is a trademark of Google Inc. Fantasy Flight Supply is a ™ of 
Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games, Mansions of Madness, Arkham 
Horror, and the FFG logo are ® of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight 
Games is located at 1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, 
651-639-1905. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY PERSONS 13 YEARS 
OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
www.FantasyFlightGames.com