™

Game Overview
Mansions of Madness is a board game for two to five players in 
which one player takes on the role of the keeper and all other 
players take on the roles of investigators. During each game, 
investigator players come to explore a location in order to unravel 
a mystery. Investigators win or lose as a team and need to use 
their brains and brawn to find artifacts, weapons, and clues to 
stop the keeper’s diabolical plot.
The keeper’s goal is to fulfill an evil scheme, which can range 
from driving the investigators insane to bringing about the 
end of the world. The keeper’s weapons are fear, paranoia, and 
occasionally hordes of monsters. 
The game creates an immersive story that, given players’ 
decisions, can unravel in many different and exciting ways. 
Object of the Game
Before each game, players select one of the pre-generated 
stories listed in the Investigator Guide (located in the back of 
this rulebook) and the Keeper Guide. During setup, the keeper 
receives an Objective card that describes how he can win the 
game. This winning condition can range from summoning a 
horrifying creature to capturing or killing investigators.
Each Objective card also lists how the investigators can stop 
the keeper’s plot and claim victory for themselves. However, 
because this card is hidden from them at the start of the game, 
investigators must first search for the clue cards that were hidden 
during setup. Once investigators have found the last clue card, the 
Objective card is revealed and the players’ victory conditions are 
made known to all. The first side to complete their objective wins 
the game. 
Each story has three different Objective cards, and players 
replaying the same story may discover a completely different 
set of objectives!
Component List
This Rulebook (including the Investigator Guide)
1 Keeper Guide
8 Investigator Figures
24 Monster Figures, consisting of:
2 Chthonians
2 Cult Leaders
6 Cultists
2 Hounds of Tindalos
2 Maniacs
2 Mi-Gos
2 Shoggoths
2 Witches
4 Zombies
1 Ten-sided Die
224 Small Cards, consisting of:
83 Exploration Cards
20 Spell Cards 
14 Starting Item Cards
32 Trait Cards
12 Lock Cards
7 Obstacle Cards
35 Mythos Cards
21 Trauma Cards
126 Bridge-sized Cards, consisting of: 
65 Combat Cards
8 Investigator Character Cards
25 Event Cards
13 Keeper Action Cards
15 Objective Cards
9 Sheets of Punchboard, consisting of:
15 Map Tiles (1 large, 7 medium, 7 small)
72 Damage Tokens
24 Horror Tokens
24 Monster Tokens
18 Room Feature Markers 
4 Sample Tokens 
12 Sealed Door Markers
24 Skill Point Tokens
24 Status Effect Tokens
13 Story Choice Markers
12 Threat Tokens
6 Time Tokens
3 Lock Puzzle Setup Tiles
15 Lock Puzzle Pieces
23 Rune Puzzle Pieces
3 Wiring Puzzle Setup Tiles
15 Wiring Puzzle Pieces

Component Breakdown
This section describes all of the various components in detail.
Keeper Guide
This separate guide book contains the 
information required for the keeper to set 
up the five stories including the clues, 
keeper actions, monsters, and objectives 
used each time the game is played. 
 
Investigator Figures
Each of these figures corresponds to one 
of the characters available for investigator 
players to choose. The figure is placed 
on the map tiles to indicate the current 
space occupied by the character.
Monster Figures	
These figures represent the nightmarish 
creatures the keeper may be able to 
place on the map during the game. Each 
figure has a corresponding monster 
token that must be placed in the base 
before playing the game (see diagram 
on page 5). Monster figures are placed 
on the map tiles to indicate the current 
space occupied by the monster.
Exploration Cards	
These cards represent weapons, tomes, clues, 
and more that may be found while searching 
rooms. Some exploration cards represent 
empty rooms and have no effect besides 
wasting the investigators’ time. 
Spell Cards 	
These cards represent magical abilities 
investigators can learn and use to fight 
monsters or recover their health and sanity.
Starting Item Cards
These cards represent items that an 
investigator begins the game with. An 
investigator’s starting item is an object or an 
ally that is fundamental to his character. 
Trait Cards
At the start of the game, each investigator 
chooses two of the four trait cards unique 
to his character. These cards list the 
investigator’s starting equipment, once per 
game abilities, and attributes.
Lock and Obstacle Cards
Lock cards represent physical locks on 
doors or other impediments that prevent 
investigators from entering a room until 
they fulfill specific criteria. Obstacle cards, 
on the other hand, represent challenges 
or distractions within a room that prevent 
investigators from exploring that room until 
they fulfill specific criteria.
These cards represent supernatural or 
unexpected events that the keeper can play on 
investigators during their turns.
These cards represent injuries and insanities 
that the keeper can inflict on investigators.
Combat Cards
These cards are used to determine 
the outcome of combat, both for 
investigator attacks and monster 
attacks. Combat cards come in 
three types matching the three 
classes of monsters: humanoid, 
beast, and eldritch. All monsters 
are categorized into a class of 
monsters based upon their physical 
appearance and abilities. Each card 
lists the mechanical outcome of 
the fight as well as a short narrative 
explaining the thematic outcome.
Character Cards 	
Each investigator has a single 
character card which lists his health, 
sanity, and starting skill points. 
These cards are used to mark which 
investigator each player controls, 
and the back of the card provides 
a brief backstory for the investigator. 
Event Cards
Each story has a unique deck 
of five Event cards. These cards 
represent the occurrences that 
unfold as the story proceeds, 
regardless of the actions taken by 
the investigators or the keeper. 
Each Event card is drawn after a 
set number of turns and lists up to 
three different effects, based on 
choices made by the keeper 

Keeper Action Cards	
The Keeper Guide lists which 
Keeper Action cards are available 
to the keeper for each story. Keeper 
Action cards provide the basic 
actions the keeper can perform on 
his turn by spending threat (see 
page 10).
Objective Cards	
Each story has three unique 
Objective cards which lists the 
winning conditions for the keeper 
and investigators. The keeper 
receives one of these cards at the 
start of the game, based upon the 
choices he made during setup.
 
Map Tiles	
These large tiles are used 
to create the game board 
during setup. Investigator and 
monster figures are placed on 
the map tiles to mark which 
room they are in.
Damage and Horror Tokens
These tokens are placed on an 
investigator’s Character card to mark 
how much damage or horror has been 
dealt to him. Damage tokens are also 
used to mark how much damage has 
been dealt to a monster (by inserting it 
into the hook on the figure’s base).
Monster Tokens	
The front of these tokens lists the 
monster’s awareness and horror rating. 
The back of each token lists the monster’s 
unique special attack, health, and damage 
value. Before playing the game, each 
monster token is inserted into its figure’s 
base (see diagram on page 5). 
Room Feature Markers	
These markers represent specific furniture 
and objects on the map that investigators and/
or monsters may interact with. These markers 
include barriers, hiding spaces, altars, corpses, 
and more.
These tokens are used as described on the “Take 
Sample” Keeper Action card. Sample tokens represent 
biological samples that can be used for a ritual.
Sealed Door Markers	
These markers represent doors that have been 
boarded up, bricked over, or otherwise made 
completely impassable. They are placed on the 
game board during setup as instructed by the story 
guide. Monsters and investigators may never 
move through a door covered by a sealed door marker. 
Skill Point Tokens	
Each investigator starts the game with a number 
of skill point tokens. These tokens are usually not 
replenished and can be used to modify an attribute 
test before rolling the die.
Status Effect Tokens	
These tokens are used to mark a special status of a 
room, investigator, or monster. These tokens come 
in three types: stun, fire, and darkness. 
Story Choice Markers
These markers are used to record the keeper’s 
answers to a series of questions asked during 
setup. On one side is a number corresponding to 
the question and on the other side is a letter corresponding to the 
answer. These tokens are placed facedown in front of the keeper so 
that he can remember his answers for future reference. 
Threat Tokens	
These tokens represent the growing strength of the 
keeper. He spends these tokens to perform keeper 
actions and to play some Mythos cards.
Time Tokens
These tokens are used to track how long until the 
next Event card is resolved. The keeper places one 
of these tokens on top of the Event deck during each 
Event Step.
Puzzle Pieces and Setup Tiles
Investigators occasionally encounter Obstacle or 
Lock cards that require them to solve a specific 
puzzle in order to proceed. There are three 
main types of puzzles, each solved by using a 
number of random puzzle pieces to complete the 
puzzle’s objective (see pages 17–20). 
Ten-sided Die	
This die is used primarily for attribute tests. The result 
of the die roll determines whether or not an investigator 
passes or fails at a given task (see “Attribute Tests” on page 13).

Setup
Setting up a game of Mansions of Madness is different from 
many other games. Although all players participate during 
“General Setup,” the keeper and investigator players have 
different steps to perform. The investigators’ setup instructions 
for each story are listed in the Investigator Guide at the back of 
this rulebook. The keeper’s setup instructions are listed in the 
separate Keeper Guide. Those setup instructions may not be 
examined by the investigators.
General Setup
Before playing the game, players must perform the following 
steps:
Choose Story:
 Mansions of Madness includes five unique 
stories, each with many possible card setups and three 
different endings. 
 
Before playing, players decide which of the five stories they 
wish to play during this game session. They will later need 
to refer to this story’s guide sections listed in the Investigator 
Guide at the back of this rulebook and in the Keeper Guide. If 
all players do not agree on which story to play, this decision is 
made randomly (such as by rolling a die).
Choose Player Roles:
 Players decide who will take on the 
role of the keeper (the antagonist of the story). We recommend 
that the most experienced player take on this role. 
 
All other players take on the roles of investigators. If all 
players do not agree, then this decision is made randomly 
(such as by rolling a die).
Set Up Monsters:
 Make sure that each monster figure has 
a matching monster token slotted into its base (see diagram 
to the left). All monster figures are then placed on the table 
within easy reach of the keeper.
Set Up Markers and Tokens:
 Take all other markers and 
tokens and sort them into piles by their type. Place each pile 
within easy reach of all players. Puzzle pieces are placed in 
five facedown piles, separated by their common backs.
Investigators Claim Setup Cards:
 The investigator players 
take all Trait, Starting Item, and Investigator Character cards. 
They will need these during “Investigator Setup.” 
Keeper Claims Setup Cards:
 The keeper player takes all 
Mythos, Exploration, Lock, Obstacle, Objective, and Keeper 
Action cards. He will need these during “Keeper Setup.”
Build Event Deck:
7.	
 The keeper takes the five Event cards for 
the story the players have chosen and builds the story’s Event 
deck in order, starting with the stage “V” Event card on the 
bottom and ending with the stage “I” Event card on top. No 
player may look at the face of these cards during this process.
Set Up Draw Decks:
8.	
 Separate all other cards by their card 
backs. Place the three Combat decks and the Trauma deck 
within easy reach of the keeper. Place the four Spell decks 
within easy reach of the investigators.
After these steps are complete, investigator players perform 
the steps for “Investigator Setup” (see page III in the Investigator 
Guide at the back of this rulebook), while the keeper simultaneously 
performs the steps for “Keeper Setup” (see pages 2–3 of the Keeper 
Guide).
Monster Figure Setup
To prevent damage during shipping, the monster figures 
in this game are not pre-attached to their bases.
To assemble them, insert each figure’s peg into the 
appropriate base (see image below). If you wish to 
permanently attach them, add a small amount of super 
glue to the peg before inserting (do this before inserting 
the monster token). 
The two Shoggoths should be attached to the largest 
bases, the two Cthonians to the medium sized bases, and 
all other figures attached to small bases.
After attaching the figures to their bases, insert each 
monster token into the matching figure’s base. These 
bases have been designed to display all pertinent 
information of the monster token without the need to 
remove the token from the base.

Investigator Setup
After finishing General Setup, the investigator players perform 
the steps listed in the chosen story in the Investigator Guide (at 
the end of this rulebook). 
These steps include setting up the game map, reading the 
introductory story, and choosing investigators. Once a player has 
chosen his investigator, he receives the corresponding investigator 
Character card, Trait cards, and listed number of skill point tokens.
During investigator setup, each player chooses two of his 
investigator’s Trait cards to represent his investigator’s abilities 
during this game. He then receives the Starting Item or Spell 
card listed on his chosen Trait cards and returns his investigator’s 
other Trait cards to the box. 
Finally, each player places his investigator figure on the Start 
space (listed in the “Map Setup” of the story guide).
Keeper Setup
After finishing General Setup, the keeper performs the steps 
listed in the chosen story’s keeper story guide (listed in the 
Keeper Guide book). 
These steps include choosing his objective, setting up the Keeper 
Action cards and Mythos deck, and seeding the game board with 
Exploration, Obstacle, and Lock cards.
Keeper and investigator setup must be performed simultaneously. 
A player may not make his setup decisions based upon what the 
other side is doing. If this becomes an issue, investigators may 
perform their setup out of sight of the keeper after setting up the 
game board.
Playing the Game
Mansions of Madness is played over a number of game rounds. 
During each round, each player resolves his turn (starting with 
the investigators).
Each investigator completes his entire turn before another player 
may begin his turn. Investigator players decide as a group the 
order in which they wish to act. If they cannot all agree on an 
order, they proceed clockwise, starting with the player sitting to 
the left of the keeper.
Investigator Turn Summary 
During each investigator’s turn, he receives two Movement Steps 
and one Action Step. He may resolve these steps in any order he 
chooses and does not need to resolve all three. For example, an 
investigator could move one space, take his action, and then move 
another space.
Movement Step:
 The player may move his investigator figure 
to an adjacent space. The player may perform this step up to 
two times during each of his turns.
Action Step:
 The player may perform one action. Here is a 
list of available actions:
Run: Move to an adjacent space.
Card Ability: Use an “Action” ability from a card 
he controls.
Drop Items: Leave Exploration and/or Starting Item cards in 
his room.
Attack a Monster: Choose a monster in his space to attack.
Explore: Reveal Obstacle and Exploration cards 
in his room.
After the player has resolved up to two Movement Steps and one 
Action Step, another investigator may begin his turn. If each 
investigator has already resolved a turn this round, proceed to the 
keeper turn (see below).
Keeper Turn Summary
During each keeper turn, players perform the following steps in 
order.
Investigator Trading Step:
 During this step, investigators 
who are in the same space may trade Exploration and/or 
Starting Item cards (see “Investigator Trading Step” on page 
10). Each stunned investigator may then discard one stun 
status effect token (see “Status Effects” on page 15).
Gain Threat Step:
 The keeper gains a number of threat 
tokens equal to the number of investigator players. He adds 
them to his pile of unspent threat tokens from previous turns.
Keeper Action Step:
 The keeper spends (discards) threat 
tokens to perform actions from his Keeper Action cards. 
Monster Attack Step:
 The keeper may perform one attack 
with each monster that is in an investigator’s space. 
Event Step:
 The keeper places one time token on the top of 
the Event deck. If this causes the number of tokens on the 
deck to equal the time number printed on the back of the card, 
all tokens are removed and the Event card is resolved.
At the end of the keeper’s turn, the investigators may once again 
each take one turn. This process continues until one side wins the 
game (as printed on the chosen Objective card) or the last card of 
the Event deck has been resolved.
Winning the Game
At the start of the game, the keeper receives one of the selected 
story’s three Objective cards. This card details what he needs 
to do to win the game, as well as how the investigators can stop 
him. It is important that he keep this card secret and not show it 
to the investigators until instructed to reveal it by another card or 
ability. In addition to completing his story objective, the keeper 
also wins if all of the investigators are eliminated.
The investigators’ goal is to find all clue Exploration cards, 
which are hidden somewhere on the game board. In order to find 
these cards, the investigators need to listen closely to the story 
at the start of the game and be careful to examine each clue 
card they discover. The story and clues give hints as to where 
the investigators should look in order to find the next clue. Once 
investigators discover the final clue (always labeled “Clue 1”), the 
keeper reveals his Objective card, giving the investigators one 
final task to complete in order to win the game.
Should the investigators and keeper both fail to complete their 
objective before the last Event card is resolved, all players lose 
the game (investigators and keeper alike)!

Setup Diagram
Objective Card
Keeper Action Cards
Story Choice Markers
Combat Decks
7.	
Threat Tokens
8.	
Spell Decks
9.	
Time Tokens
10.	
Event Deck
11.	
Game Board
12.	
Feature Markers
13.	
Sealed Door Markers
14.	
Status Effect Tokens
15.	
Damage Tokens
16.	
Skill Point Tokens
17.	
Horror Tokens
18.	
Investigator Figures
19.	
Character Cards
20.	
Starting Item/Spell Cards
21.	
Starting Skill Points
22.	
Trait Cards
23.	
Puzzle Pieces
24.	
Puzzle Setup Tiles
25.	

Investigator Turn in Detail
During each investigator turn, the player may move his 
investigator twice and perform one action. He may perform these 
steps in any order, and even move once, perform an action, and 
then move again.
This section covers detailed rules for the investigator Movement 
Step and Action Step.
Movement Step
During an investigator’s Movement Step, he may move his figure 
to one adjacent space. Since an investigator may perform two 
Movement Steps during his turn, he may move up to two spaces 
and perform an action (which could be to possibly move to a 
third space).
Spaces are considered adjacent if they are separated by a white 
line or a door. If two spaces are separated by a solid brown wall 
without a door (or if the door is a sealed door), the spaces are not 
adjacent.
Investigators may move between two spaces that are diagonally 
adjacent. Due to imperfections in die cutting, if spaces between 
two tiles appear that they should be diagonally adjacent, then they 
are. All non-adjacent spaces very clearly do not share a white 
border by at least 1/8 of an inch.
Moving through doors does not require spending an action or 
any sort of special movement (although the movement may be 
impeded by a lock – see below). 
Any doors that are blocked by sealed door markers (usually 
placed during setup) can never be traveled through. 
Lock Cards
During setup, the keeper places a number of Lock cards on 
various rooms (as instructed in the Keeper Guide). Locked 
rooms can easily be identified by the Lock card on top of any 
Exploration and Obstacle cards in the room. 
Unlike other cards in a room, Lock cards are revealed when 
an investigator attempts to move into the room. Before a player 
physically moves his investigator figure into the room, the keeper 
turns the Lock card faceup and reads it aloud to all players. 
Lock cards often require the investigator to discard a specific 
Exploration card or solve a puzzle in order to enter the room. 
If the player is unable to discard the proper card or solve the 
puzzle, then he cannot enter the room this turn (and wasted 
this Movement Step). When a moving investigator encounters 
an ability saying “this door is locked,” his figure remains in its 
current room and cannot move for this Movement Step.
Once a Lock or Obstacle card has been revealed, it is placed 
faceup on top of the room’s pile of Exploration cards (until its 
criteria have been met). Lock cards are always resolved when an 
investigator attempts to enter the room, regardless of which door 
he uses to enter the room.
Monsters may freely move into and out of rooms that contain 
Lock cards.
See “Example of Investigator Turn” on page 10 for an example of 
resolving a Lock card.
Map Tile Breakdown
Tile:
 A single large piece of punchboard, which 
contains between one and three rooms.
Room:
 An area of a map tile that has a name and is 
separated from other rooms by solid brown walls, 
doors, or the edge of the map tile. All Lock, Obstacle, 
and Exploration cards in the room are placed next to 
the room’s name.
Space:
 The smallest division of a room, separated 
from other spaces by white lines, solid brown walls, 
and/or doors.
Door:
 A rectangular hole in a wall through which 
investigators and monsters can freely move.

Action Step
During an investigator’s turn, he may perform a single action. 
Since he only receives one Action Step, choosing what action to 
take is often the most important decision he needs to make on his 
turn. This section lists the possible investigator actions.
Run Action
Sometimes an investigator will want to travel more quickly 
around the game board. In such cases, the investigator may spend 
his action to move to an adjacent space.
This special movement follows all standard rules for movement, 
including adjacency rules and evade tests (see page 14). 
Card Ability Action
Throughout the game, players can acquire a number of cards that 
provide new types of actions. These abilities require the player to 
spend his entire Action Step to use them and are preceded on the 
card by the bold word “Action:.” The effects of performing these 
actions are specified on the cards.
Drop Action
Sometimes an investigator will want to drop Starting Item or 
Exploration cards in his room. When performing this action, the 
player takes any of his Starting Item and/or Exploration cards he 
wishes and places them faceup (in any order) on top of his room’s 
Obstacle and/or Exploration cards. 
A player who later explores this room can pick up any dropped 
cards (following all normal rules for exploring).
Attack Action
Attacking a monster is a common action investigators perform. The 
player selects one of his weapon or attack Spell cards and chooses 
a monster as dictated on the card. Alternatively, an investigator 
may attack a monster in his space using his bare hands.
When attacking a monster with a spell, the player follows the 
rules for “Casting Spells” (see page 16). If the investigator is 
not attacking with a spell, the keeper determines which class a 
monster is based upon the color of its monster token. (Monsters 
are divided into classes to indicate their physical appearance and 
abilities.) The keeper then draws the top card of the Combat deck 
matching the monster’s class and resolves it. The full combat 
rules are found on pages 21–23.
Attacking a monster is the only action that an investigator can 
perform while a monster is in his space (unless he evades the 
monster, see “Evade Tests” on page 14).
Explore Action
The most common action that investigators perform on their turn 
is exploring a room. 
During setup, the keeper places facedown Exploration cards in 
every room on the game board. Investigators may reveal these 
cards by performing an explore action in the room.
Important: An investigator may explore a room from any space 
of his room. He is not required to be in the space with the room’s 
name and Exploration cards.
When a player performs an explore action, the keeper flips over 
all cards in the room one at a time, starting with the top card in 
the pile and working down. He reads each card aloud and then 
hands it to the player exploring the room. The player must take 
each of these cards and place it faceup next to his Character card 
(to mark that he is carrying it). The only exception is cards that 
say “You find nothing of value.” (These cards are discarded after 
being revealed).
Each investigator may carry any number of Exploration cards. 
Exploration Card Types
Every Exploration card has a type printed just below the card’s 
artwork (except for clues). This type dictates how other cards 
interact with this card (as listed below). Some cards have multiple 
types, and they follow the rules for all of their types.
Clues: These are the cards that the investigators are ultimately 
attempting to discover. These cards have no artwork and are 
clearly labeled with a large number and a letter in the upper 
left corner. The number represent the level of the clue (clue 1 
is always the final clue to be discovered), while the letter only 
matters during setup.
Investigators should pay close attention to all text on clue cards, 
as it leads to the room that investigators should explore next.
Keys: These cards are often required to get past certain Lock or 
Obstacle cards. Each key card specifically lists the card name that 
it can be used to discard.
Equipment: These cards are generally useful items that can be 
used for a variety of purposes. As with all cards, they specify 
when they are used and whether they require spending an action 
or not.
Artifact: These cards are similar to equipment cards, but 
represent items of great power that are less likely to be targeted 
by the keeper’s cards and abilities.
Weapon: These cards allow the investigator to attack monsters 
more effectively (as listed on the card). Weapons come in three 
types: “ranged weapon,” “sharp melee weapon,” and “blunt melee 
weapon” (see “Combat” on pages 21–23). 
Tome: These cards represent books of great knowledge. Most of 
them can be read as an action and provide a way for players to 
gain Spell cards (see page 16).
Nothing of Interest: When revealed, this card is immediately 
discarded. It has no effect besides making investigators believe 
that there may have been an important item or clue in the room. 
Obstacle Cards
Sometimes, when exploring, an investigator will reveal an Obstacle 
card. Obstacle cards represent some obstruction or challenge 
preventing an investigator from exploring his room. These cards 
have a unique card back and often require the investigator to 
perform a task before revealing the cards beneath it. 
Obstacle cards sometime require the investigator to solve a puzzle 
(see page 17) or use a particular key card (an Exploration card with 
the key type). A key card must currently be in the investigator’s 
possession in order to discard the Obstacle card (that is to say, he 
cannot use a key that is in another player’s possession).
Obstacle cards are only discarded when specifically instructed. 

Keeper Turn in Detail
During each keeper turn, the keeper gains a number of threat 
tokens and spends them to perform actions. Each keeper turn 
also includes a number of upkeep steps that occur every round 
(such as the Event Step). The five steps of every keeper turn are 
detailed in this section.
Investigator Trading Step
1)	
During this step, investigators are allowed to trade Starting Item 
and Exploration cards with one another. Investigators who are in 
the same space may give each other as many “key,” “equipment,” 
“weapon,” “artifact,” “ally,” and/or “tome” cards as they wish. 
All other card types may not be traded.
Although cards can be traded, they cannot be voluntarily 
dropped in this step (see “Drop Action” on page 9).
After trading items, each stunned investigator may discard one of 
his stun tokens (see “Status Effects” on page 15).
Gain Threat Step
2)	
During this step, the keeper gains a number of threat tokens equal 
to the number of investigator players at the start of the game. 
For example, in a four-player game, the keeper gains three threat 
(since there are three investigator players and one keeper player). 
These tokens are later used to resolve Keeper Action cards and 
play Mythos cards. The keeper may keep unspent threat tokens 
at the end of his turn. The keeper gains his full complement of 
threat tokens during this step, regardless of the number of tokens 
he already has or the number of eliminated investigators.
Keeper Action Step
3)	
Each story gives the keeper access to specific Keeper Action 
cards, as listed in the Keeper Guide.
During this step, the keeper may resolve any number of these 
Keeper Action cards that he wishes (threat permitting). These 
actions are resolved one at a time by spending (discarding) the 
appropriate amount of threat (printed on the upper left corner of 
the Keeper Action card).
Example of Investigator Turn
Jenny Barnes begins her turn in the basement 
landing. 
For her first Movement Step, Jenny moves to the 
other space of the Basement Landing.
For her second Movement Step, Jenny Barnes 
attempts to enter the Basement Storage. Since 
there is a Lock card there, she flips it over before 
physically moving into the room.
The Lock card requires her to test her Strength. 
She passes this test and may move into the room 
(see “Attribute Tests” on page 13). If she had failed, 
she would have stayed in the Basement Landing.
Jenny then spends her Action Step to explore her 
room. She flips over the Exploration cards in her 
room one at a time. She takes the “Axe” card, 
and the “Nothing of Interest” card is discarded. 

Keeper Action cards often fall into one of three categories: those 
that allow the keeper to draw cards, those that allow him to move 
monsters, and those that allow him to place monsters. These 
categories are described in more detail below.
Note: The keeper may not use the “Uncontrollable Urges” Keeper 
Action card to use a spell or item that does not have a valid target. 
For example, he may not force an investigator to use the “Sedative” 
equipment on an investigator that does not have a Trauma card.
Drawing Mythos and Trauma Cards
A number of Keeper Action cards allow the keeper to draw more 
Mythos and Trauma cards. Mythos cards are unexpected events that 
are played by the keeper during an investigator’s turn by spending 
threat (see page 16), while Trauma cards are played by the keeper as 
additional consequences of an investigator taking damage or horror 
(see page 24).
All Mythos and Trauma cards in the keeper’s hand are kept secret 
from the investigators. The keeper is limited to four Mythos cards 
and four Trauma cards in his hand at any time. If he ever exceeds this 
total, he must discard cards of his choice until he has four.
Moving Monsters
The “Command Minion” and “Creatures of the Night” Keeper Action 
cards both allow the keeper to move monsters.
When the keeper moves a monster, he moves it one space at a time, 
possibly requiring investigators to make horror tests (see page 13). 
Like investigators, monsters may only move to adjacent spaces, can 
move diagonally, and cannot move through walls or sealed doors. 
Monsters may freely move through normal doors, and they ignore 
Lock cards. 
Placing Monsters
Some Keeper Action cards (and Event cards) allow the keeper to place 
specific monster figures on the game board. To do so, he randomly 
takes a monster figure of the specified type (without looking at the 
bottom of its monster token) and places it in the specified space.
If the card only specifies the room where the monster is placed, then 
the keeper may place the monster in any space of that room. 
Monster Attack Step
4)	
During this step, the keeper may have each of his monsters attack an 
investigator in its space. The keeper can choose to have some monsters 
attack and others not. If there are multiple investigators in the same 
space as a monster, the keeper chooses which one the monster attacks.
If a monster has a stun token on it, then the monster does not attack 
during this step. Instead, the keeper removes one stun token from the 
monster.
The specific steps of combat are detailed on pages 21–23. 
Event Step
5)	
During this step, the keeper places one time token on top of the Event 
deck. If the number of time tokens then equals the time number on 
the back of the top Event card, then the keeper resolves the card. To 
resolve an Event card, the keeper discards the time tokens on it, flips 
the card over, reads the appropriate text aloud, and resolves its effects.
The face of each Event card lists up to three different effects, which 
vary based upon the keeper’s story choice marker. When resolving an 
Event card that has multiple effects, the keeper only reads aloud and 
resolves the effect matching the letter on his matching story choice 
marker (for example the “1A” section if he has story choice marker 
“1A”).
The keeper and investigators may not look at the face of an Event card 
until it is resolved. 
Keeper Interactions 
During Investigator Turns
Although the majority of the keeper’s activities are 
resolved during his turn, he also has a number of 
abilities and responsibilities during investigator turns.
The keeper is responsible for revealing cards when 
an investigator explores a room or attempts to move 
through a locked door. In addition, he is required to 
draw and resolve all Combat cards.
The keeper’s largest interactions, however, involve 
Trauma and Mythos cards.
Playing Trauma and Mythos Cards
In each story, the keeper starts with a number of Trauma 
and/or Mythos cards. He can draw more of these cards 
by using his Action cards. Trauma cards can only be 
played immediately after an investigator has taken 
damage or horror (see “Trauma Cards” on page 25).
Mythos cards can be played at the start of an 
investigator’s turn, or immediately after he resolves 
a Movement or Action Step. These cards each have 
a threat cost on them (which may be zero), and some 
require the investigator to be in a particular room (see 
“Mythos Cards” on page 16).
Event Card Breakdown
Event Stage:
 This number 
is used to build the deck 
during setup.
Time Number:
 The 
number of time tokens 
that must be on this card 
before it is flipped over 
and resolved. 
Keeper Action 
Card Breakdown
Threat Cost:
 The amount 
of threat that the keeper 
must spend to use this card.
Ability:
 The effect of using 
this card (prefaced by the 
word “Action”).

Core Rules
This section describes core concepts not previously discussed, 
including attribute tests, casting spells, and using Mythos and 
Objective cards. The rules for puzzles and combat are discussed 
later (starting on page 17).
Monsters
Investigators are frequently plagued by monsters, which attack 
them and carry out the nefarious plans of the keeper.
Monster Classes
Although there are many different types of monsters (cultists, 
witches, zombies, etc.), there are only three classes of monsters 
(humanoid, beast, and eldritch). Each monster belongs to one of 
those classes, and its class is indicated by the color on the upper 
right corner of its monster token. Beast monsters are brown, 
eldritch monsters are green, and humanoid monsters are blue. 
Each monster class has a matching Combat deck of the same 
color that is used when the monster is involved in combat (see 
“Combat” on page 21).
	
Beast	
Eldritch	
Humanoid
Named Monsters
Occasionally, a story will place a monster into play that has a 
specific name and special significance to the story. These named 
monsters follow all normal monster rules, but must be marked 
(by placing a horror token on them) so that players can tell which 
monster is the named monster.
Some named monsters have more health than what is printed on 
their monster token (for example: in a four player game a monster 
that has “+2 health per investigator” would add 6 to its health 
value). In this situation, players may need to place damage tokens 
adjacent to the monster figure in addition to in the hook on its base. 
These damage tokens act as if they were also in the base’s hook.
Special Note: Cult leader monsters are not considered to be 
cultists for the purposes of card effects and abilities.
Some Objective cards require the keeper to 
accumulate a number of sample tokens. The keeper 
can use the “Take Sample” Keeper Action card against an 
investigator to have a monster gain a sample token. Monsters 
cannot transfer sample tokens or drop them anywhere other than 
on the altar. When a monster with sample tokens is killed, all its 
sample tokens are discarded.
Feature Markers
During setup, the Investigator Guide may have investigators place 
a number of room feature markers in specific spaces of the game 
board. These markers have varying effects, and interact with 
monsters and investigators in different ways. 
The full details for using these markers are found in this section. 
Altar Feature
These feature markers are used by the keeper 
as described on specific Keeper Action cards 
(such as “Take Sample” and “Summon 
Worshippers”). Certain Objective and Event 
cards may also interact with rooms that 
contain an altar feature marker.
Barrier Feature
These feature markers represent pieces of 
furniture that investigators can use to 
temporarily block a door. 
An investigator may spend his Action Step to 
either move a barrier in his space onto a door 
in that space (place it partially over the door), 
or move it from the door back into the space. 
Once a barrier is on a door, investigators and monsters may not 
move through the door. A monster trying to move through this 
door has a chance to potentially remove or destroy that barrier 
(see page 23).
Barriers may not be moved out of their starting spaces. 
Camp Fire Feature
These feature markers can be used for two 
purposes.
Spread Fire: The keeper may place fire 
status effect tokens in this room by using the 
“Spread Fire” Keeper Action card.
Destroy Corpse Markers: When in the same 
space as a camp fire, an investigator may spend an action to 
discard any number of corpse markers that are also in his space.
Corpse Feature
These feature markers are placed on the game 
board by the “Raise Dead” Keeper Action 
card. The keeper may be able to replace these 
markers with zombie monster figures.
When an investigator moves out of a space 
containing a corpse marker, he may drag it 
with him into his new space. Doing so does 
not cost him any additional Movement or Action Steps (but he 
may only drag one corpse marker when he moves).
A corpse marker is discarded if it is ever in a room that is on fire 
(see “Status Effects” on page 15). Corpse markers can also be 
discarded if investigators throw them into a camp fire (see “Camp 
Fire Feature” above).

Hiding Space Feature
These feature markers represent special 
locations where investigators can avoid 
monster attacks. An investigator may spend a 
Movement or Action Step to move his figure 
onto a hiding space marker in his space. 
It is more difficult for monsters to damage 
investigators who are in a hiding space (see page 23). 
While hiding, the investigator may not move, attack, or cast 
“attack” Spells. On a future turn, the investigator may spend a 
Movement or Action Step to move out of the hiding space.
Note that an investigator in a hiding space is still affected by all 
status effect tokens in his room (such as fire and darkness).
Ladder Feature
Investigators and humanoid (blue) monsters 
may move between spaces containing ladder 
markers as if they were adjacent. The spaces 
are considered adjacent for movement 
purposes only. Other monster types may not 
move using ladders.
Vent Feature
A beast (brown) monster may move from any 
space containing a vent feature marker to any 
other space containing a vent feature marker. 
The spaces are considered adjacent for beast 
monster movement purposes only. 
Investigators and other monster types may 
not move through vents.
Attribute Tests
Investigators often face problems that can only be overcome 
by making an attribute test. These tests always refer to one 
of the investigator’s attributes, such as “test Dexterity.” Each 
investigator’s Trait cards list his values in the seven attributes: 
Intellect, Willpower, Lore, Luck, Strength, Dexterity, and 
Marksmanship.
Trait Card Name
Investigator Image
Special Ability
Attribute Names and Values
To perform an attribute test, the player rolls a ten-sided die and 
compares this result to his investigator’s attribute. If the roll is 
equal to or less than this attribute, the investigator passes the test. 
If the roll is higher than the attribute, the investigator fails the test.
The effects of passing or failing a test are described on the card 
or ability that initiated the test. If the test only lists a fail effect, 
then there is no effect for passing (similarly, if it only lists a pass 
effect, there is no effect for failing). 
When making an attribute test, if the player rolls a 1, the test 
automatically passes regardless of the investigator’s attribute. 
Conversely, if he rolls a 10, the test automatically fails regardless 
of the investigator’s attribute.
Occasionally, an investigator must make a modified attribute 
test. Such tests always list a positive or negative number after the 
attribute (for example: “Test Strength –1”). This number is always 
added to the investigator’s attribute before rolling the die. In this 
way, a skill test with a negative modifier is more likely to fail.
Example: Joe Diamond is attacked by a zombie. The Combat 
card lists “Test Dexterity +1.” Joe Diamond adds 1 to his current 
Dexterity of 4. The player rolls the die, hoping to roll a 5 or less. 
He rolls a 1, which automatically passes. He then resolves the 
“Pass:” effect of the Combat card, which reads “no effect.”
Skill Points	
Each investigator begins the game with a limited 
number of skill point tokens. Before making an 
attribute test, a player may discard one of his skill 
point tokens to add his investigator’s Luck attribute to 
the attribute he is testing. 
A player may only discard a skill point token in this manner once 
for each attribute test, and must always do so before rolling the die. 
A player may never spend a skill point to add his Luck to his Luck.
Skill points may also be used to add a player’s Luck to his 
Intellect when attempting a puzzle (see page 18).
Horror Tests
Whenever a monster enters (or is placed in) an investigator’s 
room (or vice versa), the investigator must immediately make 
an attribute test called a horror test. He does so by making a 
Willpower test modified by the monster’s horror rating (the blue 
number at the top of its monster token). If he fails this 
test, he takes one horror (see “Damage and Horror” 
on page 24).
If multiple investigators are in the room, they must 
each make a horror test (the keeper chooses the order).
If the investigator leaves the monster’s room and then re-enters 
the room, he must make a another horror test. He must make a 
horror test every time he enters the monster’s room (and every 
time the monster enters his). In this way, a monster that is chasing 
an investigator will trigger a horror test each time the monster 
enters the investigator’s room.

If, at the start of an investigator’s turn, a monster is in the same 
room as him, the investigator does not need to make a horror test. 
If a monster leaves an investigators room and then re-enters it on 
the same turn, he does not need to make a horror test against it. 
An investigator only makes a maximum of one horror test per 
monster per turn.
Horror tests always interrupt the current step of the player’s turn. 
Example: Joe Diamond enters a zombie’s room and plans to 
attack it with his axe. He must, however, first make a horror test. 
He tests his Willpower (of 6) plus the monster’s horror rating 
of –1. He rolls an 8, which is higher than the 5 he needed, and 
immediately takes 1 horror. The keeper then plays the “Panic” 
Trauma card on Joe Diamond, which lets the keeper move him 
three spaces. Joe Diamond then resumes his turn, but cannot 
attack the zombie with his axe because he is no longer in its 
space (due to his panic attack). 
Evade Tests
An investigator must make an evade test against every monster 
in his space before moving or performing non-attack actions.
An evade test is an attribute test that is resolved immediately 
before the investigator attempts to move or take the 
action. In order to evade a monster, the player makes 
a Dexterity test modified by the monster’s awareness 
(the white number at the top right corner of the 
monster’s token).
If the player passes this test, then the investigator suffers no 
ill effect. If he fails this test, the keeper may have the monster 
damage the investigator (equal to the monster’s damage value 
– see page 23). Regardless of whether he passes or fails, the 
investigator may then move or perform the intended action. After 
having attempted to evade a monster, the investigator may freely 
move and take actions without having to try to evade the same 
monster that turn. 
Horror Test Example
The keeper has an ability to place a maniac in Jenny 
Barnes’ space. Jenny must immediately make a horror 
test. She subtracts 1 from her Willpower for the monster’s 
horror rating of –1.
The investigator player rolls a die, and gets a 5. This is 
equal to or less than her modified Willpower of 6, so she 
does not take any horror.
During her next Movement Step, she moves into the other 
space of “Hallway 3.” She does not make a horror test 
against the Maniac, because she started in the same room 
as the monster.
She spends her second Movement Step to move into 
“Corner Hallway 2.”
During the Keeper’s next turn, he moves the maniac 
two spaces, into “Corner Hallway 2.” Jenny Barnes 
must make another horror test, triggered by the monster 
entering her room.

If there are multiple monsters in the investigator’s space, he must 
attempt to evade each of them (in the order of his choice) before 
moving or performing the intended action.
Example: Joe Diamond wishes to explore his room, but there 
is a zombie in his space. In order to explore the room, he must 
attempt to evade the zombie. The player adds the monster’s 
awareness of 1 to Joe Diamond’s Dexterity of 4. He then tests 
Dexterity and rolls a 6. Since this number is higher than Joe 
Diamond’s modified Dexterity of 5, he fails to evade the monster. 
The monster deals him 2 damage (printed on the back of the 
monster token), and then Joe Diamond explores the room. After 
exploring, he decides to move into an adjacent space. Since he 
has already made an evade test against that monster this turn, 
he does not need to make another evade test.
Monsters may freely move out of an investigator’s space and do 
not cause the investigator to make an evade test when doing so. If 
the keeper moves an investigator, the investigator does not have 
to make an evade test (but may be required to make a horror test 
– see page 13). 
Attacking a monster does not require making an evade test. 
This attack may be unarmed, with a weapon, or with an “attack” 
Spell card. This attack does not need to target a monster in the 
investigator’s space.
Status Effects
Status effects are ongoing effects represented by tokens. The 
stun, fire, and darkness status effects are individually described 
in detail in this section. These effects are also summarized on the 
back of the Keeper Guide.
Stun tokens are detrimental tokens placed on 
investigators or monsters (usually during combat). 
When an investigator is stunned, the token is placed 
on his Character card. When a monster is stunned, 
the token is placed next to its figure.
These tokens affect monsters and investigators differently as 
follows.
Investigators:
 A stunned investigator only receives one 
Movement Step during his turn. If he becomes stunned 
during his turn, he may not take a second Movement Step. In 
addition, he receives –2 to every attribute test. The effects of 
stun tokens do not stack (that is to say, having two stun tokens 
does not give the investigator –4 to each attribute test). 
 
Note that this penalty only applies to attribute tests (i.e., 
rolling the die and comparing it to an attribute) and does 
not lower the attribute for other purposes. For example, this 
penalty does not reduce the number of puzzle actions an 
investigator receives.
Monsters:
 A stunned monster may not move or attack.
An investigator or monster may have multiple stun tokens on him, 
and may only discard one per turn (either during the Investigator 
Trading Step or the Monster Attack Step – see pages 10–11).
Fire tokens are placed on a room’s name and affect 
every investigator and monster in the room. The 
effects are as follows:
An investigator or monster figure in the room at 
the end of its owner’s turn is dealt 2 damage.
An investigator must test his Willpower in order to enter the 
room. If he fails, he takes 1 horror. Regardless of the result, he 
may then enter the room. Once in the room, the investigator 
does not need to test his Willpower to move to a different 
space in the same room.
Darkness tokens are placed on a room’s name and 
affect every investigator in the room. The effects of 
darkness are twofold:
An investigator who wishes to explore the room 
must spend an Action Step plus one Movement 
Step to do so. 
An investigator receives –2 to all attribute tests during combat 
while he is in the room. Note that this penalty is in addition to 
all other penalties (such as from being stunned).
Some Exploration cards (such as the “Lantern”) allow 
investigators to ignore these effects. When ignoring these effects, 
an investigator also cannot be targeted by cards that require them 
to be in a room with a darkness token. 
No Win Situations
On rare occasions, players may realize that they do 
not have enough rounds left to win the game. In such 
circumstances, players’ main focus should be to achieve 
a stalemate – stopping an opponent’s victory is almost as 
good as winning.
If this situation bothers players, they may choose to use 
the “Alternate Game Length” variant found on page 26.
Players should also be careful not to lose any key cards 
that they have discovered, as doing so could make 
winning the game impossible for them. Although it is 
rare for a key card to be discarded, such an occurrence 
should be avoided at all costs!
The misplacement of Exploration cards by the 
keeper during setup can also potentially make the 
game impossible for the investigators to win. If the 
investigators believe that the keeper made a mistake 
placing Exploration cards during setup, they can ask him 
to verify the cards with the Keeper Story Guide.
Should this prove that the keeper accidentally placed the 
wrong cards in the room, he fixes this error by finding 
the correct Encounter cards and giving them to the 
investigator. The keeper then skips his next turn.

Casting Spells
Using a Spell card in this game is known as casting a spell. 
Most players do not start with Spell cards, but may later gain 
Spell cards by reading (using the ability of) tome Exploration 
cards that they have discovered.
Although only four types of Spell cards are included in this 
game, they each have five different variations with different 
information on their backs. During setup, each type of Spell 
card is placed in its own faceup deck within easy reach of the 
investigators. When a player gains a Spell card, he takes the top 
card of the appropriate deck and places it in front of himself. 
Players may never look at the back side of Spell cards except 
when instructed by a card (usually the Spell card itself) to do so.
The player may cast the Spell by performing the action listed 
on the Spell card. This action usually requires him to make an 
attribute test (see page 13) and then flip the card over. Depending 
upon the number rolled during this test, he resolves the “Pass” or 
“Fail” effect on the card. 
After resolving this effect, the player is usually instructed to 
discard the card (to the bottom of its deck) and then draw a new 
Spell card of the same type. In this way, a player never quite 
knows what will happen when he attempts to cast a Spell.
Note that investigators may target themselves with spells that 
require them to choose an investigator in their room.
Mythos cards provide a great way for the keeper to slow 
investigators in their hunt for clues or to deal unexpected damage 
or horror to investigators. Such damage and horror could even 
present opportunities to play Trauma cards on the investigators 
(see page 25).
During “Keeper Setup”, the keeper is instructed to build the 
Mythos deck using specific Mythos cards. The instructions in the 
Keeper Guide display a number of Mythos card icons. The keeper 
takes all cards that have one of these icons and shuffles them 
together to form his Mythos deck. He returns all other Mythos 
cards to the game box. 
Each story may provide the keeper with a certain number of 
Mythos cards in his hand at the start of the story. The keeper can 
gain more Mythos cards by using specific Keeper Action cards 
over the course of the game (see page 10).
There are four points during an investigator’s turn at which 
the keeper may play a Mythos card. The keeper may play a 
maximum of one Mythos card per investigator turn and may 
never play Mythos cards during the keeper’s own turn. 
The points when the keeper may play a Mythos card are:
Start of an investigator’s turn
Immediately after an investigator’s first Movement Step
Immediately after an investigator’s second Movement Step
Immediately after an investigator’s Action Step
In order to play a Mythos card, the keeper must first pay the threat 
cost. Some cards also have a requirement which lists a room name, 
partial room name, or other requirement. The keeper may only play 
Mythos cards on investigators who are in one of the listed rooms or are 
fulfilling the requirement. 
For example, if a Mythos card says “Requirement: Bedroom,” 
the card can only be played on an investigator who is in a room 
that includes the word “Bedroom” in its name (such as the “Guest 
Bedroom” or “Master Bedroom”). 
After playing a Mythos card, the keeper discards it to a faceup pile 
adjacent to the Mythos deck. If the Mythos deck runs out of cards, this 
discard pile is shuffled to create a new Mythos deck.
Objective Cards
During “Keeper Setup,” the keeper makes a number of choices, one of 
which determines which Objective card he uses during the game. 
Each Objective card lists the conditions necessary for the keeper to 
win the game and for the investigators to win the game. The keeper 
may look at this card at any time, but does not show or read it to the 
investigators until it has been revealed.
Revealing the Objective
At the start of the game, the investigators do not know how they can 
win the game. In order to discover how they win, the investigators need 
to reveal the keeper’s Objective card. This card is usually revealed if 
the investigators find “Clue 1,” if the players resolve Event card “IV,” 
or if the keeper fulfills the requirements printed at the top of some 
Objective cards.
When the Objective card is revealed, it is placed faceup on the table in 
front of the keeper. From this point on, all players are free to read this 
card at any time.
When the investigators or keeper fulfills the winning condition listed 
on this card, the keeper reveals the card (if it hasn’t already been 
revealed), and the keeper reads the winning condition section of the 
card aloud. The game then ends, with all players of the winning side 
victorious!
Escaping
Sometimes, after finding “Clue 1,” the investigators discover they need 
to escape with the knowledge they uncovered in order to win. In such 
circumstances, investigators are allowed to escape off of the game 
board. Investigators may only escape if the Objective card has been 
revealed and it specifically instructs them to escape. Some objectives 
may require only one investigator to escape, while others may require 
all investigators to escape. (If an objective requires all investigators 
to escape, only 1 investigator per player is necessary to escape. Any 
investigators that are killed before the finale are not required to escape.) 
The Objective card always specifies the room investigators are allowed 
to escape from. In order to escape, an investigator must move through 
an unsealed door in the room that does not connect to an adjacent 
room. That investigator’s figure is removed from the game board, and 
that player may not take any more turns for the remainder of the game.
Mythos Card Breakdown
Threat Cost
Card Name
Requirement
Flavor Text
Ability
Icon

Puzzles
Occasionally, an investigator will encounter a card that requires 
him to “solve a puzzle.” Puzzles, in general, exist to slow down 
investigators and to showcase the intelligence of investigators. 
By completing a puzzle, the investigator can proceed with the 
movement or exploration the puzzle was hindering.
Encountering a puzzle interrupts whatever movement or action 
the player was resolving. If the player succeeds at solving the 
puzzle, he continues the movement or action that was interrupted. 
If not, that movement or action ends. For example, a player may 
encounter a puzzle on a Lock card while attempting to move into 
a room. The investigator gets one attempt at solving the puzzle 
before continuing his movement. This attempt does not cost the 
investigator any additional Movement or Action Step.
Types of Puzzles
There are three main types of puzzles, with at least three 
variations of each.
	
Wiring	
Lock	
Rune
Although investigators perform the same basic puzzle actions 
(see “Attempting a Puzzle” on page 18) in order to solve each 
type of puzzle, each type has a different objective (see “Solving a 
Puzzle” on page 18). 
Puzzle Setup
Whenever the investigators encounter a puzzle for the first time, 
the player encountering it resolves the following steps. The 
puzzle pieces are always placed in front of that player, never 
on the game board.
Place Setup Piece:
 If the player is encountering a Wiring or 
Lock puzzle, he first needs to place the appropriate puzzle 
setup piece on the table in front of himself (as shown on the 
card which initiated the puzzle). 
Shuffle Puzzle Pieces:
 The player then randomizes the 
appropriate pile of unused puzzle pieces. 
Deal Puzzle Pieces:
 The player then draws puzzle pieces 
from the appropriate pile one at a time. The card calling 
for the puzzle shows how many pieces to place and which 
positions to place them in. These pieces are always placed in 
rows, starting in the top left corner according to the image on 
the card. Each puzzle piece is always placed with its arrow 
(or point) pointing toward the top of the puzzle. The player 
can rotate these pieces later if necessary (see “Attempting a 
Puzzle” on page 18).
Puzzle Setup Example
He then draws random puzzle pieces, placing them 
(arrow pointing up 
) starting in the upper left 
corner, and proceeding to the right. 
After he has finishes placing all four tokens in the first 
row, he deals out tiles for the second row.
Finally, he deals out the last puzzle piece into the bottom 
row. He may now attempt this puzzle as part of his 
explore action.
While exploring a room, a player reveals an Obstacle 
card that requires him to attempt Wiring Puzzle 2A.
He first places the “2A” puzzle setup tile faceup 
in front of himself.
Next, he shuffles the pile of facedown wiring 
puzzle pieces.
4b
4c
4d
5a
5b
4a

Attempting a Puzzle
When attempting a puzzle, the player receives a number of 
puzzle actions equal to his investigator’s Intellect (found on his 
chosen Trait card). With each of these puzzle actions, he may 
perform one of the following:
Swap
 a puzzle piece with an adjacent puzzle piece (see 
diagram on page 19). The puzzle pieces remain in their 
current orientation and may not be rotated with this action. 
Note that this is the only puzzle action players need to 
perform when attempting a Rune Puzzle. 
Rotate
 a puzzle piece 90 degrees. The puzzle piece may be 
rotated clockwise or counterclockwise and stays in its current 
location. If attempting a Lock puzzle, the player may rotate 
the puzzle setup tile by 180 degrees for puzzle 4 (rectangle), 
by 120 degrees for puzzle 5 (triangle), or by 90 degrees for 
puzzle 6 (cross).
Draw
 a random puzzle piece from the pile of unused pieces. 
The player must then replace any puzzle piece in play with 
the new piece. The new piece must be placed in its starting 
orientation (arrow pointing up), and the replaced piece is 
discarded facedown to the bottom of the puzzle piece pile. 
This action costs two puzzle actions to perform.
The player may continue taking puzzle actions until he has 
solved the puzzle (see below) or has used a number of puzzle 
actions equal to his Intellect.
Solving a Puzzle
A player is said to have solved a puzzle, when he completes the 
puzzle’s objective. The puzzle’s type defines its objective:
Rune Puzzle:
 This puzzle is solved when all puzzle pieces are 
in the proper positions to match the artwork on the card that 
initiated the puzzle. Note that the artwork on these cards exists 
only as a reminder of what the completed rune puzzle looks 
like. Like with other puzzles, these pieces are set up randomly.
Wiring Puzzle:
 This puzzle is solved when the player can 
trace a continuous path of red and blue wires from the start 
of the puzzle to the end. A wire is only considered continuous 
if its color matches the wire on the adjacent puzzle piece or 
setup tile.
Lock Puzzle:
 This puzzle is solved when the symbols on 
every puzzle piece match every adjacent symbol (including 
the symbols on the setup tile).
The effects of solving a puzzle are defined on the card that 
initiated the puzzle. Solving the puzzle usually discards the card 
from play, allowing the player to continue moving or exploring. 
After completing a puzzle, all puzzle pieces are placed facedown 
on the bottom of the appropriate puzzle piece pile.
If a player has not completed a puzzle but has spent all of his 
puzzle actions (or does not wish to perform any more), the puzzle 
pieces remain on the table in their current configuration. This 
investigator (or another investigator) may attempt to later finish 
the partially completed puzzle (when encountering the Obstacle 
or Lock card which set up the puzzle). 
Each investigator can only attempt the same puzzle once per turn 
(but multiple investigators may attempt the same puzzle on the 
same turn). 
Other Puzzle Rules
Puzzle Adjacency
A puzzle piece is adjacent to each puzzle piece and setup tile 
that it is touching. Puzzle pieces are never adjacent diagonally. 
See the diagram on page 20 for examples of adjacently. 
Note that completing a puzzle sometimes requires the adjacent 
pieces and tiles to match the symbol or wire color. In the below 
diagram, puzzle pieces A and B are not considered to be adjacent 
to each other (as they are not physically touching each other). 
This puzzle is not considered completed because the yellow 
symbol on puzzle piece A does not match the adjacent blue 
symbol on setup tile “4A.” 
A
B
Resetting a Puzzle
Sometimes a player is instructed to reset a puzzle. When a 
puzzle is reset, all puzzle pieces are shuffled back into the pile 
of unused pieces. The puzzle is then set up again, following the 
normal setup instructions.
Skill Points During a Puzzle
A players may use a skill point to add his Luck to his Intellect 
when attempting a puzzle. The investigator can use the skill point 
at any time when attempting the puzzle.
Example: Jenny Barnes is attempting a puzzle and has used all 
four of her puzzle actions. She decides to spend (discard) one of 
her skill point tokens to add her 2 Luck to her Intellect. Doing 
so gives her two more puzzle actions with which to continue 
attempting the puzzle.
Puzzle Secrecy and Cheating
When an investigator attempts to solve a puzzle, other players 
may not help him solve it. They may not offer suggestions or 
otherwise give him hints as to how to solve it. 
A player attempting a puzzle may not use scrap paper or other 
equipment to help in solving the puzzle. Once a player has spent a 
puzzle action, it remains spent. For example, if the player rotates 
a puzzle piece and then decides that he should not have rotated it, 
he must spend another puzzle action if he wishes to rotate it back.

Attempting a Puzzle Example
While exploring a room, Jenny Barnes reveals an Obstacle 
card that requires her to attempt Wiring Puzzle #2A. After 
setting up the puzzle (see diagram on page 17), she may now 
attempt the puzzle as part of her explore action.
Jenny has an Intellect of 4, so she has four puzzle actions.
She uses her first puzzle action to 
rotate a puzzle piece 
90 degrees.
She then uses her second action to 
swap the position of 
two adjacent pieces. She switches their positions, but 
must keep them facing the same direction.
She uses her third and fourth action to 
draw a new 
puzzle piece. She chooses a puzzle piece to discard, and 
replaces it with the newly drawn piece. The newly drawn 
puzzle piece must be placed with its arrow facing up.
Since she has used all of her puzzle actions, her Action 
Step is over. She has not completed the puzzle because 
the wire on the newly placed puzzle piece does not 
connect to the puzzle piece above it. 
 
She leaves the puzzle in its current state. Jenny Barnes 
(or another investigator) can resume the puzzle by 
exploring this room (and encountering the same 
Obstacle card).

Examples of Solved Puzzles and Adjacency
All puzzles shown in this diagram are examples of 
completed puzzles. These are not the only solutions, 
as there are many tile combinations.
This diagram uses red arrows to show which puzzle pieces are 
adjacent and can be swapped using a “swap” puzzle action. 
Setup Arrow Direction
1A
2A
3A
4A
5A
6A

Combat
Although combat is not the main focus of Mansions of Madness, 
investigators often enter situations where they must fight against 
horrible creatures or corrupt humans. This section details all 
rules for combat as well as all mechanics that directly tie into 
combat (such as “Damage and Horror”: page 24; “Trauma 
Cards”: page 25; and “Killed Investigators”: page 24).
Combat in Mansions of Madness is a relatively simple process 
and can happen in two ways:
An investigator attacks a monster (usually by spending an 
action to attack).
A monster attacks an investigator (usually during the keeper’s 
Monster Attack Step).
Regardless of who is attacking, combat is always resolved by 
the keeper drawing Combat cards from the deck matching the 
monster’s class (color) until a relevant card is drawn. All text on 
the card is then read aloud and resolved.
Combat Card Breakdown
Investigator Attack Type
Attribute Test
Pass/Fail Results
Monster Attack Type
Investigator Attacks
When an investigator attacks a monster, the keeper draws from 
the top of the Combat deck matching the monster’s class (color 
in the upper right corner of the monster token). Each Combat 
card is broken into halves. The top half is used when the 
investigator is the attacker, and it always lists a type of 
weapon (or “No Weapon”).
The keeper draws Combat cards until he draws one matching the 
actual type of weapon being used by the investigator. The keeper 
reads the card aloud, with the investigator resolving any tests 
on the card. After resolving the card, the combat is over and the 
keeper discards all cards drawn.
Range
Many weapons and items require an investigator figure to be 
within a specific range of a monster or another investigator in 
order to perform a specific action. For example, the “Tommy 
Gun” weapon requires the target monster to be within two range 
of the investigator. 
Range is measured by determining how many spaces away the 
target is from the investigator. A monster 1 space away from an 
investigator (i.e., in an adjacent space) is considered 1 range away. 
A monster 2 spaces away is at a range of 2. If there is a door in 
between the investigator and his target, then he is not considered 
to be in range of his target.
The easiest way to measure range is to count the minimum 
number of Movement Steps required in order to move into the 
target’s space. 
Line of Sight
In order to measure range to a target, the target’s space must 
be within line of sight. Thematically, this means that the 
investigator’s figure must be able to “see” his target. 
Players will usually not need to measure line of sight, as it is 
often quite obvious whether the target can be seen. 
When in large open areas, players may need to use a ruler to 
make a straight line between the white dots inside the corners of 
the two spaces in question. A figure has line of sight if the player 
can trace a line from at least one corner dot in his space to a 
corner dot in the target space without crossing a brown wall or 
the top of a door. 
If all lines of sight are traced through walls and/or doors, then 
the target is not considered to be within range (regardless of 
the number of spaces away). 
X
Example: Harvey Walters would like to cast a spell on the chthonian 
that requires it to be within 2 range of him. Since it is 2 spaces away, 
it is within range assuming that he has line of sight to it.
He first traces line of sight from the top corner of his space. 
Since this line intersects a wall, he does not have line of sight 
from this direction.
He then traces line of sight from the bottom left corner of his 
space. Since this line does not intersect a wall or door, he is 
considered to have line of sight from this dot.
Since he is able to trace line of sight at least once, and he is 2 
spaces away, he is considered within range and able to cast his 
spell on the monster.
Note that monsters, investigators and feature markers do not block 
line of sight. Also note that some spaces do not have line of sight 
dots. A figure in one of these spaces has line of sight to every space 
in the room (and does not have line of sight to other rooms).

Monster Attacks
During every Monster Attack Step, every monster may attack an 
investigator in its space. When a monster attacks, the keeper draws 
cards from the top of the Combat deck matching the monster’s 
class (indicated by the color on the monster token). The bottom half 
of each Combat card is used whenever a monster is the attacker, 
and it always lists either “Monster Attack,” “Monster vs. Hiding,” 
or “Monster vs. Barrier” (see “Hiding and Barriers” on page 23).
The keeper draws Combat cards until he draws a “Monster 
Attack” card. He reads the card aloud, with the investigator 
resolving any tests on the card. After resolving the card, the 
combat is over and the keeper discards all cards drawn.
Example of Combat
Jenny Barnes wishes to attack a monster using her ranged 
weapon “.45 Automatics.” She cannot attack the following 
monsters because they are out of range:
This monster is not within range because the “Front 
A.	
Porch” does not have any line of sight dots (and therefore 
cannot be seen from other rooms).
This monster is not within range because it is 3 
B.	
spaces away, and the weapon can only attack a monster 
within 2 range (as printed on the weapon’s card).
This monster is not within range because Jenny Barnes 
C.	
cannot trace line of sight to its space, and it is 5 spaces away.
Jenny Barnes decides to attack the only monster within 
range (monster “D”). The keeper draws the top card of the 
humanoid Combat deck (because the zombie is a humanoid). 
Since this card matches Jenny Barnes’ weapon type, she 
resolves it. This card requires her to test her Marksmanship.
She passes this test and deals 3 damage to the zombie. 
Since the zombie already has 1 damage, the keeper places 
a damage token with a 4 into the monster’s base.
Finally, she looks at the bottom of the monster’s token. 
Since the damage does not equal or exceed its health, 
the zombie is not killed.
A
D
B
C
X
+
=

Monster Special Attacks
Some Combat cards say “Monster makes its special attack.” In 
order to execute a monster special attack, the keeper lifts up the 
monster figure, reads the special ability printed on the bottom of 
its monster token, and resolves the ability exactly as if it were the 
text on a Combat card.
Example: A cultist is attacking Gloria Goldberg. The keeper 
draws a Combat card from the humanoid (blue) Combat deck 
and resolves the “Monster Attack” ability. Since the card 
says “Monster makes it special attack,” the keeper picks up 
the cultist figure, reads the printed ability on the bottom, and 
resolves the ability.
Hiding and Barriers
Some Combat cards list effects for “Monster vs. Hiding” and 
“Monster vs. Barrier.” These cards are only used in special 
circumstances, as explained in this section.
Investigators are sometimes able to hide from monsters, usually 
by making use of a hiding space feature marker (see page 13). 
When a monster attacks an investigator who is hiding, the keeper 
draws Combat cards until he draws a “Monster vs. Hiding” card, 
and then he resolves the card. These cards are much less likely 
to damage an investigator and can often allow the investigator to 
move the monster away from him. If the result of the card reads 
“the investigator is no longer hiding,” then he is moved off the 
hiding space feature marker and may later be attacked as normal.
Investigators can occasionally place a barrier feature marker 
on a door (see page 12). These markers prevent monsters and 
investigators from moving through the door. When a monster 
attempts to move through a door that has a barrier on it, the 
keeper draws from the monster’s Combat deck until he draws a 
“Monster vs. Barrier” card, and then he resolves the card. This 
card may destroy (discard) the barrier marker or simply move it 
off the door (to its original space). When a barrier is destroyed or 
moved, the monster may continue moving through the door. On 
any other result, the monster is not allowed to move through the 
door, and the keeper may not move the monster again that turn. 
Combat Keywords
This section lists common keywords that players may encounter 
on Combat cards and in monster special attacks.
Take X Damage: The investigator receives damage tokens with 
a total value of X. These tokens are placed on his Character card, 
reducing his health by this amount (see “Damage and Horror” on 
page 24).
Take X Horror: The investigator receives X horror tokens. 
These tokens are placed on his Character card, reducing his 
sanity by this amount (see “Damage and Horror” on page 24).
Deal Damage: The monster receives the listed amount of 
damage, which is added to any damage tokens currently on the 
monster (see page 24).
Monster Damages You: The investigator takes damage equal 
to the monster’s damage value (printed on the back of the 
monster’s token).
Deal Weapon Damage: The monster is dealt damage equal to 
the damage value of the weapon being used (printed under the 
artwork of the weapon card).
Drop Weapon: The investigator places the weapon in his current 
room. He must drop the weapon he is currently using (if able). 
The card is placed on top of any Obstacle or Exploration cards 
in the room. Any player who explores the room can pick up this 
weapon (following the standard rules for exploring).
Test Attribute: The investigator must make an attribute test 
(see page 13). The card or token always lists the results of passing 
and failing. If a pass or fail effect is missing from the card, then it 
is assumed that the result has no effect.
Melee Weapon: The phrase “Melee Weapon” refers to any type 
of weapon that has the word “Melee” in its type, including both 
Sharp Melee Weapons and Blunt Melee Weapons. So, when the 
keeper draws a “Melee Weapon” Combat card, he resolves its 
effects if an investigator is attacking with any type of weapon 
that has the word “Melee” in its type. 
Ranged Weapon: The phrase “Ranged Weapon” refers to any 
type of weapon that has the word “Ranged” in its type. So, when 
the keeper draws a “Ranged Weapon” Combat card, he resolves 
its effects if an investigator is attacking with any type of weapon 
that has the word “Ranged” in its type. 
No Effect: Nothing happens.
No Longer Hiding: The investigator is moved from the hiding 
space marker and is placed in his current space. The monster 
does not attack again that turn unless specified.
Destroy the Barrier: The barrier blocking the door is removed 
from the game board.
Monster Token Breakdown
Monster Name
Monster Type (color) 
and Awareness (number)
Horror Rating
Special Attack
Damage Value
Health Value

Killing Monsters
When a monster is dealt damage, a damage token with the 
appropriate number is placed in the small vertical clip on the 
figure’s base. If the monster is later dealt more damage, this 
new damage is added to the amount of damage already on the 
monster. The keeper then replaces the current damage token with 
a damage token displaying the new total.
Monster figures with large bases 
have two damage clips; the total 
amount of damage on a large 
monster is the sum of both 
damage tokens.
If the amount of damage on a 
monster ever equals or exceeds the 
health value printed on the back 
of the monster’s token, the monster 
is killed. The keeper removes 
the figure from the game board, 
discards any damage tokens on the 
figure, and then returns the figure to 
the pool of unused figures.
Damage and Horror
The two main threats to investigators are death and insanity, 
which can be caused by accumulating too much damage or 
horror, respectively. However, throughout the game, investigators 
can hardly avoid taking damage and horror. Damage is usually 
taken during combat, while horror is most often taken as a result 
of failed horror tests (see page 13) and from Mythos cards (see 
page 16).
Each damage an investigator suffers reduces his health value by 
1. When an investigator takes damage, he places damage tokens 
on his Character card equal to the amount of damage he suffers. 
(The number printed on a damage token indicates the amount of 
damage it represents.) If an investigator ever has 0 (or less) health, 
he is killed (see “Killed Investigators”). 
Each horror an investigator suffers reduces his sanity value by 
1. When an investigator takes horror, he places horror tokens 
on his Character card equal to the amount of horror he suffers. 
If an investigator ever has zero sanity, then he is not killed, but 
is instead driven insane. The keeper may play insanity Trauma 
cards on an insane investigator as a keeper action (see page 
25). An investigator who has been driven insane can often be a 
bigger setback for the investigators than if the investigator were 
simply killed.
Once an investigator’s sanity is reduced to 0, he cannot gain any 
more horror tokens. Zero sanity is the lowest sanity an investigator 
can have. However, the keeper may play Trauma cards on an 
insane investigator when the investigator would ordinarily have 
gained horror (as if the investigator had gained horror as normal). 
An investigator only remains insane as long as he has 0 sanity. If 
his sanity increases above 0, he becomes sane again.
Investigators may occasionally be able to heal damage or horror. 
When damage or horror is healed, the player removes the amount 
of tokens specified from his Character card and returns them to 
the stockpile. Investigators may exchange damage tokens for ones 
of equal value (but of different denominations) at any time.
Killed Investigators
An investigator is killed when he is reduced to 0 health (i.e., the 
total value of his damage tokens equals or exceeds his health). 
The investigator’s figure is removed from the game board, and 
all of his Exploration and Starting Item cards are dropped in 
his current room (following the rules for a “Drop Action” – see 
page 9). Any Spell cards the investigator has are discarded (not 
dropped). The player then discards all of his investigator’s skill 
point, damage, and horror tokens. Finally, the player returns his 
Character card and his Trait cards to the game box. 
Normally, the player chooses a new investigator on his next turn. 
However, if the Objective card has already been revealed (see 
page 16) when the investigator is killed, the player is instead 
eliminated from the game.
Choosing a New Investigator
If a player’s investigator has been killed, he does not receive any 
Movement or Action Steps on his next turn. Instead, he chooses 
an investigator who has not yet participated in this story. If all 
investigators have been used, the player is eliminated (see below).
Once the player has chosen a new investigator, he receives the 
investigator’s Character card and all four Trait cards. He chooses 
two Trait cards, just as he would during setup, and receives the 
Starting Item card (or Spell card) listed on one of the chosen Trait 
cards. He then receives the amount of skill point tokens listed on 
the Character card.
Finally, he places his investigator’s figure on the start space; his 
turn then ends.
Elimination
If an investigator is killed once the Objective card has been 
revealed, his player is eliminated from the game. After following 
all steps for “Killed Investigators” above, the player no longer 
participates in the game. He no longer receives an investigator 
turn, but he still wins if the other investigators win.
Multi-investigator 
Some Trauma cards are marked with 
the multi-investigator icon. 
If the keeper draws one of these cards 
when only one investigator is playing, he discards this 
card and draws a new Trauma card.
If all investigators except one are eliminated, the 
keeper discards all multi-investigator Trauma cards 
from his hand and draws the same number of 
new Trauma cards. 

Trauma cards are used by the keeper to represent the physical 
and emotional damage that investigators have suffered. These 
cards can only be played by the keeper immediately after an 
investigator takes damage or horror. The only exception to this 
restriction is if an investigator has zero sanity, in which case the 
keeper may play one insanity Trauma card on the investigator as 
a keeper action (once per turn per insane investigator).
Trauma cards are kept in the keeper’s hand until played and are 
drawn using specific Keeper Action cards (see page 10).
Trauma cards with a red border are known as injuries and can 
only be played when an investigator takes damage. Trauma cards 
with a blue border are known as insanities and can only be 
played when an investigator takes horror. Some Trauma cards 
also have a large number on them, meaning that they can only be 
played on an investigator whose current health or sanity is equal 
to or lower than the number. As investigators take more damage 
and horror, they become susceptible to stronger Trauma cards. 
Example: A zombie enters Michael McGlen’s room. Michael 
McGlen makes a horror test (testing his Willpower –1). He 
fails the test, and takes 1 horror, which reduces his already 
beleaguered sanity to 0. The keeper then decides to play a “The 
Only Way Out” Trauma card on Michael McGlen, which causes 
him to be killed. The keeper can only play this card because 
Michael McGlen’s sanity is equal to or less than the number on 
the Trauma card.
Each investigator may have a maximum of one injury and one 
insanity at any given time. If he receives a second card of the 
same type, the original card is discarded first. Thematically, 
the investigator has found a way to cope with the trauma or is 
focusing all his energy on this new trauma.
Once received, it is very difficult for an investigator player to get 
rid of a Trauma card. A lucky investigator may find a piece of 
equipment or a Spell that can cure his trauma. 
Component Limitations
On rare occasions players will not have enough cards or tokens to 
perform an action or ability. In such cases, players should follow 
the below rules.
Decks of Cards:
 If a deck of cards runs out, the players 
shuffle the discard pile to create a new deck. The only 
exception is the Event deck, which always ends the game after 
the last card is drawn (as listed on the card). 
Corpse Markers:
 Corpse markers are limited to the amount 
provided in the game. Any effects that would place additional 
corpse markers beyond that onto the game board are ignored. 
Although corpse markers have a background image (such as 
grass or dirt), this image does not affect game play, and any 
corpse marker may be placed in any room. All discarded 
corpse markers (including burned corpses) may be reused. 
Puzzle Pieces:
 If a player would like to draw additional 
puzzle pieces, but they are all in use, then he may not draw 
any. When a puzzle is completed, all of its puzzle pieces are 
shuffled back into the pile of unused puzzle pieces.
Other Tokens:
 All other tokens are unlimited. If players run 
out of a token type (such as horror tokens), they should use a 
suitable replacement (such as a coin) to mark such an effect. 
Monster Figures:
 The keeper may never have more monster 
figures on the game board than those provided in the game. 
If an ability lets him place a figure, and all of that type are 
already on the game board, he may optionally kill one of his 
monsters in order to place it elsewhere.
Investigators:
 When an investigator is killed, the figure is 
returned to the game box. If an investigator is killed when 
all investigator figures are in the game box (or on the game 
board), then the investigator’s player is eliminated from the 
game (see page 24).
Secrecy
Since Mansions of Madness is a team game, it is 
important to know which information is open to all 
players and which information is kept secret from the 
other side.
Combat Cards: All information on Combat cards 
is open information. An investigator may know the 
possible outcomes of the card before choosing whether 
or not to spend a skill point. The same is true for 
monster special attacks.
Monster Tokens: The keeper may look at the 
information on the bottom of monster tokens at any 
time. Investigators may only look at the information 
on the bottom of damaged monsters. When a monster 
is dealing damage or making a special attack, an 
investigator may look at the back of the token (in order 
to verify that the keeper is being honest). 
Mythos and Trauma Cards: Any cards in the keeper’s 
hand are secret and may not be seen by the investigators. 
Once played, these cards are displayed faceup for all 
players to see. The only exception are the few Mythos 
cards which are specifically played facedown. Only the 
investigator who receives one of these Mythos cards 
may examine it, and it may not be looked at by other 
investigators (but may be examined by the keeper).
Keeper Story Guide: All information in the Keeper 
Story Guide is hidden information and may not be 
examined by investigator players. The investigators may, 
however, ask the keeper to repeat any information he 
reads from this book (such as the short narrative at the 
end of setup) or ask to verify the Exploration cards after 
exploring a room (see page 9). 
Investigator Discussions: The investigator players 
may discuss and plan their turns together. However, 
all discussion must happen in front of the keeper. 
Investigators may not write hidden notes or otherwise 
secretly discuss their plans. 

Optional Rules
This section includes three optional rules, tailored towards 
different play styles. Before playing, all players must agree on 
which (if any) optional rules they wish to use.
Puzzle Time Limit
Some play groups find that investigators spend far too long 
thinking about puzzles without taking any puzzle actions. 
Players need a watch with a second hand, a stop watch, or 
an egg timer for this option.
With this option, investigators are limited to 60 seconds for 
interacting with puzzles (regardless of the investigator’s Intellect). 
At the end of this time limit, the player may not use any unspent 
puzzle actions. 
Monster Skill Points
With this option, monsters becomes more powerful when more 
investigators are playing. At the start of the game, the keeper 
receives a number of skill point tokens equal to the number of 
investigator players. Like investigator skill points, the keeper’s 
skill points are not replenished after being used.
The keeper may spend a skill point token for one of the following 
effects:
Reroll an Attribute Test:
 Discard the token after an 
investigator rolls for an attribute test during combat. The 
investigator must reroll the die and use the new result. The 
keeper may not force the second roll to be rerolled.
Use a Monster Special Attack:
 Before drawing a Combat 
card for a monster attack, the keeper may discard a skill point 
token to automatically have the monster make its special 
attack. The keeper does not draw any Combat cards and 
instead resolves the special attack listed on the bottom of the 
monster token.
Alternate Game Length
This option is for players who prefer a little more uncertainty as 
to when the game will end. Immediately before the keeper draws 
the last card of the Event deck, he first rolls the die. If he rolls a 
“1” or “2,” he does not draw the card this turn. He then repeats 
this process on every future Event Step. 
If the Objective card indicates that the keeper or investigators win 
if the last Event card is resolved, then the keeper does not roll and 
instead resolves the Event card as normal.
Credits
Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Additional Component and Story Design: Tim Uren
Editing and Proofreading: Brian Mola and Mark O’Connor
Graphic Design: Kevin Childress, Dallas Mehlhoff, Andrew 
Navaro, Brian Schomburg, Michael Silsby, WiL Springer, and 
Adam Taubenheim
Cover Art: Anders Finér
Map and Feature Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Figure Design: Christopher Burdett, Patrick Doran, David Kang, 
Will Nichols, Mio del Rosario and Allison Theus
Figure Art Direction: Sally Hopper
Figure Photography: Jason Beaudoin
Cover Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Art Administration: Kyle Hough and Zoë Robinson
FFG Lead Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
Playtesters: Daniel Lovat Clark, Mike David, Jean9 Duncan, 
John Goodenough, Ansley Grams, John Grams, Eric Hanson, 
Michael Hurley, Sally Karkula, Steve Kimball, Shannon 
Konieczka, Rob Kouba, Jay Little, Michelle Melykson, Andrew 
Meredith, Pam Van Muijen, Richard Nauertz, Mark Pollard, 
Thaadd Powell, Zoë Robinson, Adam Sadler, Brady Sadler, 
Jeremy Stomberg, Anton Torres, Jason Walden
Thank you H.P. Lovecraft and all horror authors who have 
opened our minds through the years.
© 2010 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All rights reserved. No part of 
this product may be reproduced without specific written permission. 
Mansions of Madness, Arkham Horror, Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy 
Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight 
Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County 
Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, MN 55113, USA, and can be reached by 
telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. 
Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. THIS 
PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY AND IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE BY 
PERSONS 12 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER.
Flavor Text
Mansions of Madness is a game full of theme and story. 
All flavor text on components is italicized in order to 
prevent confusing it with rules text. In order to play the 
game, players can even ignore all italicized text on cards. 
(However, we do not recommend this course of action, 
because it will diminish the story and experience, as well 
as make the task of finding clues much more difficult.)
All flavor text uses the word “you” to refer to the 
investigators.