E m p i r e s
Designed by Serge Laget

ɰ -1-
Caravans
Markets
Temples
Regular
Cities
Cities
Sea Battle 
Dice
Land Battle 
Dice
The map is divided 
into Provinces..
...and Seas.
ɰ Game Setup (5 player setup shown)
The Mare Nostrum map consists of Provinces (land areas) and Seas. 
Players each choose or randomly select one of 5 Empires. Each Empire begins the game controlling 3 Provinces, which 
are outlined in the same unique color as the Empire’s Control Markers , Legions 
, Triremes 
, and Fortresses 
. 
Each Empire also begins the game being led by a starting Hero:
Rome (red) led by Caesar 
Carthage (black) led by Hannibal 
Greece (green) led by Pericles 
Egypt (yellow) led by Cleopatra 
Babylon (purple) led by Hammurabi 
Each player’s Empire 
begins the game with 
three Provinces, whose 
backgrounds are fully or 
partially the same color.
The game board represents the Mediterranean Basin on which 
Resources (Coins and Commodities), Caravan 
, Market 
, 
, and City 
 icons are pictured in each Province.
Islands with icons count as Provinces. Gray anonymous islands 
are for flavor only and not playable in the game.
Choose an 
Empire and all 
of its identically colored 
Legions, Triremes, 
Fortresses, and Control 
Markers. Place these 
near you next to the 
game board.
Reserves: Sort and place 
all Commodities, Coins, 
Markets, Caravans, Cities, and 
Temples face up next to the map. 
Place all Legendary 
Commodities together in one 
pile face down next to the map.
Place Legions, Fortresses, Caravans, 
Markets, Cities, Temples, and Control 
Markers on your Empire’s three starting Provinces 
as shown on the inside of your Empire Screen.
Collect the 9 Resources (Coins and Commodities) 
shown. These are the Resources you collect during 
the first round’s Collect Resources Phase (1.1).

ɰ -2-
For your first few games:
Place 5 random Hero and 
Wonder tiles face up on the first 
5 spaces and the Pyramids tile 
face up on its space. The rest of 
the Hero and Wonder tiles are 
randomly placed face down on the 
remaining empty spaces.
At the end of each Build Phase, 
turn over new Hero/Wonder tiles 
until there are again 5 tiles face up.
For experienced players:
Place all 17 Hero and Wonder 
tiles and the Pyramids tile face up 
on their spaces. 
Coins
Commodities
Commodities
ɰ Game Setup For 3 or 4 players
For 3 or 4 player games, you will use only part of the game board:
➢➢3 players: Overlay the Babylonian and Egyptian Provinces with the ‘Leader’ and ‘Heroes & Wonders’ boards.
➢➢4 players: Overlay the Babylonian Provinces with the Leader Board.
All visible Provinces are playable. Below, the game map and the ‘Leader’ and ‘Heroes & Wonders’ boards are pictured.
Place a Leader Track Marker of your color on each Leader Track. 
Trade Leadership (left column) tracks how many Markets and Caravans you control, plus Hero/Wonder bonuses.
Culture Leadership (middle column) tracks how many Temples and Cities you control, plus Hero/Wonder bonuses.
Military Leadership (right column) tracks how many Units you control, plus Hero/Wonder bonuses. 
Each Empire begins with the following Leader values:
Note: The numbers depicted on the Leader Board are Roman Numerals. I (1), II (2), III (3), IV (4), V (5), VI (6), VII 
(7), VIII (8), IX (9), X (10), XI (11), XII (12), XIII (13), XIV (14), XV (15).
Trade
Culture
Military
Rome (red)
Begins as the Military Leader and one of his markers is placed at the top of the Military Track.
Greece (green)
Babylon (purple)
Egypt (yellow)
Begins as the Culture Leader and one of his markers is placed at the top of the Culture 
Track. In a 3 player game, Greece is the starting Culture Leader.
Carthage (black)
Begins as the Trade Leader and one of his markers is placed at the top of the Trade Track.
ɰ 4 players board setup
ɰ 3 players board setup
Gallia
Sicilia
Syracuse
Carthage
Rome
Troy
Jérusalem
Alexandria
Athens
Babylon
Creta
Germania
Dacia
Thracia
Macedonia
Achaea
Numidia
Africa
Libya
Phasania
Cyrenaica
Garamantia
Nubia
Aegyptus
Aethiopia
Arabia
Judaea
Syria
Cilicia
Mesopotamia
Armenia
Cappadocia
Asia
Pontus Euximus
Cyprium
Aegaeum
Mare Aegyptum
Erythraeum
Mare Africum
Ionium
Tyrrhenum
Mare Sardum
Hadriaticum
Dalmatia
Latium
Italia
Gallia
Sicilia
Syracuse
Carthage
Rome
Troy
Jérusalem
Alexandria
Athens
Babylon
Creta
Germania
Dacia
Thracia
Macedonia
Achaea
Numidia
Africa
Libya
Phasania
Cyrenaica
Garamantia
Nubia
Aegyptus
Aethiopia
Arabia
Judaea
Syria
Cilicia
Mesopotamia
Armenia
Cappadocia
Asia
Pontus Euximus
Cyprium
Aegaeum
Mare Aegyptum
Erythraeum
Mare Africum
Ionium
Tyrrhenum
Mare Sardum
Hadriaticum
Dalmatia
Latium
Italia
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
VI
VIII
IX
X
XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
VI
4 x
12 x
12 =
4 x
12 x
12 =
Heroes & Wonders 
Board
Leader 
Board

ɰ -3-
ɰ Game Components
➢➢23 tiles: 5 Starting Heroes, (Caesar, Hannibal, 
Pericles, Cleopatra, and Hammurabi), plus 12 
additional Heroes, 5 Wonders, and the Pyramids.
➢➢Resources: 
Legendary Commodities (13 - one of each Commodity type) 
Commodities (13 types) and Coins 
Ceramic
(3)
Gems
Papyrus
Metal
Spices
Stone
(5 )
Wood
Gold
(7)
Grain
Oil
Sheep
Wine
Gladiator
(11)
Coin
(44)
➢➢Buildings: 
Caravan, Market, City & Temple
Caravan
(37)
Market
(25)
Regular
(8)
Capital
(3)
(14)
➢➢9 Land Battle Dice (beige) and 5 Sea Battle Dice (blue).
➢➢5 different colored Empire sets of miniatures and Markers. 
Each set includes:
• 8 Legions, 5 Triremes, 5 Fortresses
• 7 Control Markers
• 5 Leader Track Markers
➢➢3 Exchange Markers:
3 Exchange Markers (shown front-back 5/0, 2/1, 4/3) 
➢➢5 Player Summary Sheets, Empire Mats, and Screens.
ɰ Game overview
The game board represents the Mediterranean Basin, 
separated into Provinces and Seas. Each Province may 
contain the icons of Commodity and Coin Resources, plus 
Caravan, Market, City, and Temple building spaces.
Players can grow their Empires by building Caravans, 
Markets, Cities, and Temples upon the building spaces 
within Provinces they control. These new Buildings gain the 
players new Commodity and Coin Resources. An Empire can 
expand by gaining control of new Provinces and developing 
their Resources. A player may even be so bold as to invade 
another player’s Province in order to occupy and control its 
Resources and Buildings. 
Collected Commodity and Coin Resources allow the players 
to build new Caravans, Markets, Cities, and Temples, grow 
their armies, or create new Wonders and recruit Heroes. 
Players can win the game through:
➢➢Prestige - by building the Pyramids.
➢➢Fame - by gaining their 5th Hero/Wonder. 
➢➢Conquest - by controlling 4 Capital and/or Legendary 	
 Cities. 
➢➢Leadership - by simultaneously possessing the titles of 	
 Trade Leader, Cu	
lture Leader, and Military Leader. 
ɰ Round Overview
Mare Nostrum is played over a number of rounds until one 
player claims victory. Each round consists of five Phases:
Phase 1. Collect Resources (simultaneous)
Resources are Commodities and Coins, including Legendary 
Commodities. For each Caravan a player controls, the player 
collects the Commodity depicted next to that Caravan. If 
the player also controls a Market in the same Province, the 
Commodities that player collects are doubled. 
For each city a player controls, the player collects 1 Coin. If 
the player also controls a Temple in the same Province, the 
Coins that player collects are doubled.
Phase 2. Trade Resources (beginning with the Trade Leader)
The Trade Leader plays an Exchange Marker of his choice, 
determining how many Resources (Commodities and/or 
Coins) each player must offer for trade.
The Trade Leader now claims one Resource from those offered 
by another player. Then the player he took the Resource from 
claims a Resource from another player, and so on.
Phase 3. Build (in order determined by the Culture Leader)
The Culture Leader selects an Active Player to build first 
(he can choose himself). Once that Active Player has finished 
building, the Culture Leader selects the next Active Player to 
build, and so on, until all players have had a turn to build. 
The Active Player builds each Unit, Building, Hero, Wonder, 
and/or Provincial Control with either:
➢➢a set of only Coins, or
➢➢a set of different Commodities with no duplicates.
A player discards the Resources spent to build each item. At 
the end of this phase, each player can keep and store up to 
two Coins for the next round. All other unspent Resources 
must be discarded.
Phase 4. Move and Battle (in order determined by the Military Leader)
The Military Leader selects an Active Player to move and 
battle first (he can choose himself). Once that Active Player 
has finished moving and battling, the Military Leader selects 
the next Active Player to move and battle, and so on, until all 
players have had their turn to move and battle.
When chosen, the Active Player first decides whether to move 
any number of his Triremes. Once done moving his Triremes, 
the Active Player may resolve Sea Battles if his Triremes 
occupy a Sea with opposing Triremes.
The Active Player then moves any number of his Legions. 
Once done moving, the Active Player must resolve Battles if 
his Legions occupy a Province with opposing Legions. 
Phase 5. Claim Leadership (simultaneous)
The 3 Leader tracks are continually adjusted during the round 
as players gain and/or lose Triremes, Legions, Fortresses, 
Caravans, Markets, Cities, Temples, Heroes, and Wonders. 
During this phase, the new Trade Leader, Culture Leader, 
and Military Leader are determined in accordance with each 
Leader Track. 

ɰ -4-
ɰ Game Play
1.  Collect Resources Phase
1.1 Collect Commodities and Coins
There are two types of Resources: Commodities and Coins. 
Each player collects: 
➢➢1 Coin for each City or Capital City he controls. 
He collects an additional Coin for each controlled 
city if he also controls a Temple in the Province.
➢➢1 Commodity matching the Commodity 
depicted next to each Caravan he controls. He 
collects an additional matching Commodity 
for each controlled Caravan if he also controls a 
Market in the Province.
➢➢1 Coin + 1 Legendary Commodity (randomly 
drawn from the Legendary Commodities pile) 
for each Legendary City he controls. He collects 
an additional Coin or Legendary Commodity for 
a controlled Legendary City if he also controls a 
Temple in the Province.
Collected Resources are placed behind a player’s Empire Screen. 
1.2 Legendary Commodities
Legendary Commodities are randomly drawn. A Legendary 
Commodity counts like its regular Commodity counterpart.
Example: A Legendary Sheep Commodity counts the same as 
a regular Sheep Commodity, so both cannot be used together 
in the same set of Commodities during the Build Phase (3.0).
When spent, a Legendary Commodity is placed in a discard 
pile. If all Legendary Commodities have been drawn, the discard 
pile is shuffled and placed face down as the new Legendary 
Commodity draw pile.
Cities - There are three types of cities on the map:
City: Cities with light borders around their edges. 
They produce Coins.
Capital City: Roma, Athenae, Babylon, Alexandria, 
and Carthago have black borders. They produce 
Coins. A player may always build in his Capital City’s 
Province, even if controlled by an opponent (3.1.1).
Legendary City: Troia, Ierusalem, and Syracusae 
have red borders. They produce Coins and 
Legendary Commodities.
Note: A player wins the game with a Military Victory if he 
controls 4 Capital and/or Legendary Cities (6.0).
Control - A Province’s Controlling Player (3.1.1) controls 
all Caravans, Markets, Cities, and Temples within that 
Province except those Buildings that are occupied (4.3.2) 
by an opponent’s Legions. A Building occupied by an 
opponent’s Legion is controlled by that opponent.
Example: Dave controls the Egyptian Province of Aethiopia, 
which has two Caravans built in it and no Legions. Dave 
controls both of these Caravans and will collect the Wheat 
and Gold Resources pictured next to these Caravans during 
the Collect Resources Phase. 
2.  Trade Resources Phase
2.1 Play an Exchange Marker
A new Trade Leader takes possession 
of all 3 Exchange Markers. Each 
Exchange Marker has two different values, one on the front 
and one on the back (5 or 0, 2 or 1, and 4 or 3).
The Trade Leader plays one of the Exchange Markers, for 
the value of his choice, to determine how many Resources 
(Commodities and/or Coins) each player must choose from 
his Resource Supply and place face down in front of his 
Empire Screen. 
A played Exchange Marker is placed on one of the three empty 
fields at the top of the Leader Board. A played Exchange 
Marker may not be played again until all 3 Exchange Markers 
have been played OR until a new Trade Leader takes over. 
Example: Grady is the Trade Leader and chooses the 3/4 
Exchange Marker, playing it with the 3 value face up. The players 
each choose 3 of their Resources and place them face down in 
front of their screens. On the next round, Grady may choose 
to play either of the remaining 5/0 or 2/1 Exchange Markers.
Once all players have placed their Resources, they flip them 
face up and Trading Resources begins.
2.2 Trading Resources
The Trade Leader begins by claiming any one Resource 
offered by another player by placing it face down on his 
Empire Mat. This Resource may no longer be claimed by the 
other players.
Next, the player whose Resource was taken by the Trade 
Leader gets to claim any one remaining face up Resource of 
his choice from any other player. This next player then claims 
one Resource of his choice and so on, until all available face 
up Resources have been claimed.
Example: Grady claims one of Dave’s Resources. Dave then 
claims one of Kirsten’s Resources. Kirsten then claims one of 
Dave’s Resources. Dave then claims one of Bill’s Resources, 
and so on until all available Resources have been claimed. 
Two players may not claim each other’s Resources twice in 
a row.
Example: Grady claimed one of Dave’s Resources. Dave then 
claimed one of Grady’s Resources. Grady may NOT claim 
another of Dave’s Resources at this time, but must instead 
claim an offered Resource from any other player.
If only two players remain to exchange Resources and they 
have each already claimed one Resource from the other, they 
may not continue taking further Resources, and the Trade 
Resources Phase ends. They place their remaining offered 
Resources back into their Resource Supply. 
Example: Dave and Bill both offered Resources that were not 
in high demand, so Kirsten’s and Grady’s Resources were 
claimed first. Now Dave claims one of Bill’s Resources, then Bill 
claims one of Dave’s Resources. Dave may NOT claim another 
Resource from Bill and so the Resource Trading Phase ends.
2.2.1 Uneven number of Resources taken
All players should end up with the same number of traded 
Resources. If the Trade Leader claimed an extra Resource, he 
chooses any one of his Resources (those traded and the others 
behind his screen) and gives it to the player that claimed one 
Resource less than he should have. 
Example: Grady as Trade Leader plays the ‘1’ Exchange 
Marker and all players place 1 Resource in front of their screen. 
Grady claims Kirsten’s Resource. Then Kirsten claims Grady’s 
resource. Grady now claims another player’s Resource. Grady 
ends up with 2 Resources and another player with none. Grady 
must give this last player one Resource of his choice.
Once trading has concluded, all newly traded Resources are 
placed into each player’s Resource Supply behind their Player 
Screens.
2 Heroes and 2 Wonders give additional Resources:
➢➢Circe - Legions placed on empty Caravan spaces collect 
their associated Resources.
➢➢Hamilcar - Doubles Pillage income (4.3.1).
➢➢Temple of Artemis - Receives 1 extra Coin each round.
➢➢The Colossus - Receives 1 extra Commodity each round. 

ɰ -5-
3.  Build Phase
The Culture Leader selects an Active Player to build first 
(he can choose himself). Once that Active Player has finished 
building, the Culture Leader selects the next Active Player to 
build, and so on, until all players have had a turn to build.
A player builds items by spending his Resources and placing 
the built item on the map or on his Empire mat. Some items 
require more Resources to build than others:
➢➢3 Resources to build most Buildings and Units. 
➢➢6 Resources to build particularly powerful Buildings.
➢➢7 to 10 Resources for Heroes/Wonders.
➢➢12 Resources to build the Pyramids.
Build Costs
Control
3x
Regular City
Capital City
Legendary City
Caravan
Legion
Trireme
Fortress
6x
Market
Hero/Wonder
7-10x
Pyramids
12x
A player can build an item with either:
➢➢a set of only Coins, or
➢➢a set of different Commodities (no duplicates).
A player discards the Resources spent to build each item.
Example: At the end of the Trade Phase, David has 9 
Resources - 3 Coins, 2 Grain, 1 Wood, 1 Sheep, 1 Gold, and 1 
Gladiator. He can combine these Resources to create three ‘3 
Resource’ sets made up of: 
➢➢Set one: 3 Coins,
➢➢Set two: 1 Grain + 1 Wood + 1 Sheep,
➢➢Set three: 1 Grain + 1 Gold + 1 Gladiator.
He cannot build a ‘6 Resource’ set because he only has 5 
different Resources and because it is not possible to mix 
Coins and Commodities. With these sets he builds and places 
one Caravan and two Legions.
Unused Commodities are lost at the end of the Building 
Phase. Players must discard these to the Resources reserves.
Up to 2 Coins may be stored and kept for the next round. 
Excess coins are discarded.
3.1 Build Rules
A player can choose to build Control, Units, Buildings, and/
or Heroes/Wonders in any order. 
3.1.1 Control
Control can only be built in a Province that is adjacent to or 
adjoining a Province that was under the player’s Control at 
the beginning of the round. 
Controlling Player: When a player 
builds and places his Control Marker in 
a Province he becomes that Province’s 
Controlling Player. Only now may he build Units and 
Buildings in this Province. 
To build Control, Units, or Buildings, a Province need not 
be occupied by the player’s own Units, but the Province 
may not be under an opponent’s control or occupied by an 
opponent’s Units. Exception: A player may always build in 
his Capital City Province. 
Example: The Greek player (green) may build a Control 
Marker in Germania 1 because this Province is adjacent to 
Dacia, which was already under the Greek player’s control at 
the beginning of the round. 
He cannot place Control in Asia 2 because this Province is 
not adjoining or adjacent to either Thracia or Achaea. (He 
could build Control in Asia, if he had a Trireme in either Sea 
connecting his Provinces to Asia.) 
He cannot place a Control Marker in either Dalmatia or 
Macedonia because Dalmatia is under Roman (Red) control 3 
and Macedonia has a Roman Legion in it 4 .
Adjoining Province: A Province adjoins another Province 
through a continuous chain of the player’s Triremes 
connecting the two Provinces.
2 Leaders can modify Resource Sets:
➢➢Cleopatra may: 
• substitute 1 Coin for a Commodity in each set of 
Commodities, and/or
• substitute 1 Commodity for a Coin in each set of Coins
➢➢Hannibal may, in each Commodity set, use one 
Commodity twice. 
Example: David controls Hannibal. He can make one set of 
6 Commodity Resources (2 Grain + 1 Sheep + 1 Gladiator + 
1 Gold + 1 Wood) and 1 set of 3 Coins.
1 Wonder can alter the storage rule: 
➢➢Hanging gardens allows a player to store and keep up 
to 2 different unused Commodities, in addition to 2 Coins.

ɰ -6-
3.1.2 Build Units & Buildings
A player may build and place Legion and Fortress Units, and 
City, Temple, Caravan, and Market Buildings in Provinces he 
controls (3.1.1). A player may build and place Trireme Units 
in Seas adjacent to Provinces he controls, even if occupied by 
opponent Triremes.
Units:
Any number of Legions and up to one Fortress may occupy 
each Controlling Player’s Province.
Any number of Triremes may be built in Seas adjacent 
to a Controlling Player’s Province that is not occupied by 
opponent Units. However, the Sea may be occupied by 
opponent Triremes. 
A player is limited by the number of Legions, Fortresses, and 
Triremes supplied in the game. 
Example: The Greek player built a Trireme and a Legendary 
City. He increases his Military Track level by 1 because he 
built a Trireme and his Culture Track level by 1 because he 
built a Legendary City. 
Example: The Egyptian player built Circe. She advances 
Egypt’s Trade and Military tracks by 1 each.
Note: Each Building, Unit, and Hero/Wonder symbol is 
pictured at the top of the Leader Track that it affects. 
4.  Move &Battle Phase
The Military Leader determines the Active Player, the player 
who moves and battles first (he can choose himself). Once 
that player is finished, the Military Leader determines the 
next Active Player to move and battle, and so on.
4.1 Movement
The Active Player may move any number of his Triremes and 
Legions. Each Trireme may move to an adjacent Sea and each 
Legion may move to an adjacent or adjoining Province (3.1.1).
During an Active Player’s Move & Battle turn, he moves and 
battles with his Triremes first, before moving and battling with 
his Legions. 
4.1.1 Sea Movement
Triremes move from one Sea to any adjacent Sea. After the 
Active Player completes all Trireme movements, if any are 
in a Sea also occupied by an opponent’s Triremes, the Active 
Player chooses whether or not to initiate a Sea Battle. Sea 
Battles are not mandatory and opposing Triremes may 
occupy the same Sea without a battle occurring. However, 
if the Active Player chooses to attack, he must do so before 
moving his Legions. Thus he risks losing Triremes that might 
be used for transporting his Legions (4.1.2).
4.1.2 Land Movement
Each Legion may either move from one Province to any adjacent 
Province, or may be transported to an adjoining Province.
After the Active Player completes all Legion movements, if 
any are in a Province also occupied by an opponent’s Legions 
and/or Fortress, he must initiate a land battle. Opposing 
Legions and/or Fortresses may not occupy the same Province 
without a Battle occurring.
Example 1: The Active Roman player has 2 Legions in Italia, 
1 Legion in Crete, and 2 Triremes in Mare Ionium. He first 
moves one Trireme into the adjacent Sea Mare Africum 1 
which is occupied by a yellow Egyptian Trireme. The Roman 
player decides not to attack the Egyptian Trireme. He now 
transports his 2 Legions from Italia to Cyrenaica 2 because 
these Provinces are adjoining by the continuous chain of 
Roman Triremes (Mare Ionium & Mare Africum) and his 
1 Legion from Crete to Cyrenaica 3 thanks to the same 
Trireme in Mare Africum.
Note: If the Roman Trireme had decided to battle the 
Egyptian Trireme and not been destroyed, it could then still 
have transported the Roman Legions to Cyrenaica.
3 Heroes and 1 Wonder can modify building costs:
➢➢Penthesilea may build one Legion in your Capital City 
Province, at no cost, for each of your Provinces occupied by 
opponent Legions.
➢➢Spartacus, once per round, may build one Legion for 
1 Coin or 1 Gladiator.
➢➢Gilgamesh, once per round, may build one Fortress for 
1 Coin or 1 Stone.
➢➢Pharos, once per round, may build one Trireme for 
1 Coin or 1 Wood.
Buildings:
Building Icons are marked in each Province, indicating which 
Buildings may be built there. Some Provinces have up to two 
City and/or Caravan icons marked on them, so up to two of 
each could be built there. If a Province does not have a specific 
Building Icon, then that Building may not be built there. 
Example: The Greek player builds a Trireme in Mare 
Aegaeum 1 . Now he can build a Control Marker in Asia 2 
(which is adjoining Achaea, Macedonia or Thracia, thanks 
to the Trireme he just built). He can then build a Legendary 
City on the Asia City site 3 thanks to the Control he just built 
in that Province. There are no Caravan or Market icons in 
Asia, so neither can be built in this Province.
3.1.3 Build (Recruit) Heroes & Wonders
Each Hero/Wonder gives the controlling player a unique 
power and/or Leader Bonuses. You begin the game with your 
Starting Hero. Your second Hero/Wonder costs 7 Resources 
(7 Coins or 7 different Commodities), your third costs 8 
Resources, your fourth costs 9 Resources and your fifth 
costs 10 Resources. Gaining a fifth Hero/Wonder can win a 
player the game (6.2). Hero and Wonder cards are placed on 
the controlling player’s Empire Mat.
The Pyramids are a special Wonder costing 12 Resources that 
can win a player the game (6.1).
3.2 Adjust Leader Tracks
At the end of each player’s Build Phase turn, the player 
adjusts his Trade, Culture, and Military Track levels to reflect 
the Buildings and/or Units he has gained (5.0), plus any Hero 
& Wonder Leader Bonuses he gained.

ɰ -7-
Example 2: The Babylonian player has 2 Legions and 1 
Fortress in Cilicia. He is the new active player. 
He could move his 2 Legions out of Cilicia to attack the 
Egyptian Fortress in Judea 1 , thus leaving his Fortress alone 
to battle the 2 occupying Egyptian Legions. Or the Babylonian 
player could instead move 1 Legion into Asia 2 , leaving 1 
Legion and his Fortress to battle the 2 Egyptian Legions. Or 
he could decide not to move any Legions and have them all 
battle the Egyptians in Cilicia. 
4.2 Battles
Each battle is resolved with a single roll of the Battle Dice.
Sea Battle Dice (blue) are used for battles in Seas and Land 
Battle Dice (beige) are used for battles in Provinces.
The attacker and the defender simultaneously roll one Battle 
Die for each Trireme (Sea Battles) or Legion (Land Battles) 
they control. Each player sums his dice result and divides 
by 5. The result, rounded down, equals how many hits he 
scores against his opponent. Each scored hit destroys one 
opposing Unit. The opponent chooses which of his Units 
(Trireme, Legion, Fortress) are destroyed and removed from 
the map.
Triremes do not participate in land battles and Legions and 
Fortresses do not participate in sea battles.
Fortress: A player that controls a Fortress in the Province 
a battle is taking place in negates 1 hit scored against him 
and adds 5 to his battle dice roll total. The Fortress is only 
removed if the owner chooses it as one of his destroyed Units.
Example 1 continued: The 3 
Roman Legions in Cyrenaica 
attack 
the 
Egyptians, 
who 
control one Legion and one 
Fortress. The Roman player rolls 
3 dice resulting in V, IV, and III, 
for a total of 12. The Roman 
Starting Hero Caesar adds a +1 
bonus to each Battle Die rolled, increasing the roll total to 15. 
15 divided by 5 equals 3 hits against the Egyptians. 
The Egyptian player rolls 1 die resulting in III, which equals 
no hits. However, the Egyptian Fortess negates 1 Roman 
hit and adds +5 to the Egyptian roll for total of 8 (3+5=8). 8 
divided by 5 rounded down equals 1 hit against the Romans. 
The Egyptians take 2 hits, losing their Legion and Fortress.
Continuing the previous example: Players that Move and 
Battle after the Roman’s turn could move Legions into 
Cyrenaica and another battle would occur between them and 
the two remaining Roman Legions.
4.2.1 At War
After a Battle, if both players have Legions and/or a Fortress 
remaining in the Province, the Province is said to be ‘At 
War’. Other players, including the player that was attacked, 
who have not had their Move & Battle turn this round may 
still move into this Province and Battle on their turn.
If, at the end of the round, the Province is occupied by more 
than one player’s Legions and/or Fortress, it remains ‘At 
War’. A Province ‘At War’ continues to provide income 
for its Controlling Player, but he may not build new Units 
or Buildings in it or adjacent Seas (unless it is the player’s 
Capital City Province). 
4.3 Conquests
An attacker becomes a Conqueror if he is the only player to 
have Units in an opponent controlled Province. In each such 
Province, a Conqueror may either:
➢➢Pillage one, and only one, Building, or 
➢➢Occupy several Buildings, or 
➢➢Occupy the Province’s Control Marker.
If other players move into a conquered Province, the 
Conqueror’s Units will battle. If the Conqueror’s Legions 
survive and remain the sole Units in the Province, they 
continue occupying any Building or Control Marker they 
occupied before the battle. If, however, more than one 
player’s Units remain after the battle, the Province is ‘At War’ 
and the Conqueror’s Legions no longer occupy any Buildings 
or Control Markers.
If a Conqueror still occupies a Province during subsequent 
rounds, he again chooses whether he will Pillage, Occupy 
Buildings, or Occupy the Control Marker with his Legions.
4.3.1 Pillage One Building
The Conqueror may immediately destroy one, and only 
one, Building (City, Capital City, Legendary City, Caravan, 
Temple, or Market) of his choice in the Province. He does 
this by removing the Building counter and placing one of his 
Legions on that Building’s now empty icon space.
➢➢If he destroys a City or Capital City, he gains 1 Coin,
➢➢If he destroys a Caravan, he gains its corresponding 
Commodity resource,
➢➢If he destroys a Temple or a Market, he gains nothing (but 
he takes away the Controlling Player’s future x2 income 
multiplier),
➢➢If he destroys a Legendary City, he may choose to gain 
either a Coin or a Legendary Commodity.
A destroyed Building is returned to the Buildings Reserve 
Pile and can be purchased and built again at a later time.
Continuing the previous example: The Roman player beat the 
Egyptians and has two Legions remaining in Cyrenaica. He 
decides to pillage! He destroys the Caravan by removing the 
Caravan counter, places one of his Legions on the Caravan 
map icon, and immediately gains 1 Papyrus resource.
1 Wonder and 4 Heroes can affect Battles:
➢➢The Statue of Zeus allows you to declare peace with an 
opponent and keeps both from entering each other’s Provinces. 
➢➢Caesar, Nebuchadnezzar, RAMSES II and Pericles 
give you battle advantages (10.0).
1 Hero affects Pillage:
➢➢Hamilcar doubles Pillage income: with him the player 
gains 2 Coins destroying a City, 2 Commodities destroying a 
Caravan, or 1 Coin and 1 Legendary Commodity destroying 
a Legendary City.

ɰ -8-
once you become the Province’s Controlling Player you gain 
the Resource income of all of its Buildings.
4.3.4 Adjust Leader Tracks
Players continually adjust their Trade, Culture, and Military 
Track levels to reflect any Buildings and/or Units that they 
may have gained or lost during the round (5.0).
Example: the Roman 
player decides to occupy 
the Caravan and the 
Market. He immediately 
increases 
his 
Trade 
Track level by 2 and 
decreases the Egyptian Trade Track level by 2.
4.3.5 Special Case: Capital City
A player’s Capital City Province (Roma, 
Carthago, Athenae, Alexandria, and 
Babylon) can never be converted (each 
Control Marker is printed on the map). If his 
Capital City Province is occupied by opponents, 
he may still build new Legions or a Fortress in it 
or Triremes in adjacent Seas.
5. Claim leadership Phase
The Leader Tracks include the Trade 
Track, the Culture Track, and the 
Military Track.
The Track Levels should always be 
correct for each player, since any 
Building, Unit, or Hero/Wonder 
Leader Bonus changes are immediately 
adjusted on the appropriate Leader 
Track. 
Note: If you have any doubt, you can 
easily verify a player’s specific track 
value at any moment by counting his 
relevant elements.
The player with the highest level on 
each Track becomes that Track’s 
Leader.
➢➢Trade Leader: The player who 
controls the most Caravans, Markets, 
and Hero/Wonder Trade bonuses.
➢➢Culture Leader: the player who 
controls the most Cities, Capital Cities, 
Legendary Cities, Temples, and Hero/
Wonder Culture bonuses.
➢➢Military Leader: the player who has the most Triremes, 
Legions, Fortresses, and Hero/Wonder Military bonuses.
If two or more players tie, the player who held the Leadership 
Title in the previous Round decides who gets it. This could be 
himself if he is among those tied.
Each Leader places one of his colored Markers at the top of 
his Leader Track, so that all know who the Leader is. 
Note: Some Heroes/Wonders bestow a bonus to one or more 
of a player’s Leader Track levels.
4.3.2 Occupy Several Buildings
The Conqueror may place his Legions on Buildings of his 
choice (City, Capital City, Legendary City, Temple, Caravan, 
and/or Market), thus occupying and controlling them with 1 
Legion per Building.
The Conqueror will collect the Resources provided by the 
Buildings he occupies during the next Collect Resources 
Phase in place of the Province’s controlling player. (Any 
unoccupied Building Resources will still be collected by 
the Province’s Controlling Player.) A Conqueror counts 
Occupied Buildings towards his Leader Track score (5.0).
Note: Occupied Cities are counted by the Conqueror 
when determining the ‘4 Capital/Legendary City’ Victory 
Condition (6.3).
Placing a Legion on a Temple allows you to double the Coins 
that you collect from each City that you may also be occupying 
in that Province. Placing a Legion on a Market allows you to 
double the Commodities that you collect from each Caravan 
that you may also be occupying in that Province. Note: 
Occupying a Market or Temple by itself generates no revenue.
As soon as a Conqueror’s Legions leave a Province, the 
Controlling Player (the one who has the Control Marker on 
the Province) regains control of the vacated Buildings.
Example: The Roman player decides 
to occupy the Caravan and the 
Market. He will collect 2 Papyrus 
during the next Collect Resources 
phase (instead of the Egyptian player). 
The Egyptian player will collect the 
Coin for the unoccupied City.
4.3.3 Convert Provincial Control
To be converted, a Province must be adjacent to or adjoining 
any of the Conqueror’s other Provinces! Note: Capital City 
Provinces cannot be converted, so their Control Markers are 
printed on the map.
The Conqueror may place one of his Legions on the 
opponent’s Province Control Marker. He does not remove 
the Control Marker yet.
If at the beginning of a Conqueror’s future Move and Battle 
turn his Legion still occupies an opponent’s Control Marker, 
he may exchange it for a Control Marker of his own at no 
cost. He is now this Province’s new Controlling Player. 
From now on, all Buildings in this Province not occupied by 
opponent Legions are under his control and he collects the 
Resources from them.
While a Conqueror occupies a Province’s Buildings or 
Control Marker, the Controlling Player continues to collect 
Resources from all Buildings not occupied by the Conqueror. 
Example: the Roman player decides 
to occupy Egypt’s Control Marker in 
Cyrenaica. The Egyptian gets all 
Building Resources during next 
round’s Collect Resources Phase. If 
the Roman Legion still occupies 
Egypt’s Control Marker at the beginning of the next round’s 
Roman Move and Battle turn, the Egyptian Control Marker 
is converted to the red Roman Control Marker. 
Note: Pillaging gives you immediate Resources and destroys a 
Province’s Buildings infrastructure, harming your opponent. 
You do this if you fear immediate retaliation. But if you 
think that you can hold a Province, you may instead wish to 
occupy Buildings or the opponent’s Control Marker, since 
1 Hero affects Conversion: 
➢➢Queen of Sheba allows you, once per round, to 
immediately convert an opponent’s Control Marker in 
the same round that you first occupy it by sacrificing the 
occupying legion.

ɰ -9-
Example: Rome controls 3 Caravans 
and 2 Markets, thus its red Marker is 
placed on the level V Trade Track 
space. Greece controls 2 Caravans and 
2 Markets, thus its green Marker is 
placed on the level IV Trade Track 
space. Babylon controls 3 Caravans 
and a Market, thus its purple Marker is 
placed on the level IV Trade Track 
space. Egypt and Carthage each control 
2 Caravans and 1 Market, thus both 
place their yellow and black Markers 
on the level III Trade Track space. 
Rome occupies the highest level on 
the Trade Track. The Roman player 
becomes the Trade Leader and one 
of his Leader Markers is placed at the 
top of the Trade Track. He will choose 
and play the Exchange Marker during 
Phase 2: Trade Resources (2.1). He 
will also be the first to choose another 
player’s offered Resource (2.2).
If a player surpasses level XV on a 
Leader Track, he flips his counter 
to the ‘+’ side and continues 
counting up from Level I. 
Example: Rome has 5 Fortresses, 
5 Triremes and 4 Legions. Its 
red marker sits on the level 
XIV Military Track, he is the 
Military Leader, and one of his 
Leader Markers sits at the top 
of the Military Track. During 
the Building Phase, he builds 4 
Legions increasing his Military 
Leader level from 14 to 18. He 
counts to 15, flips his red Leader 
marker to its ‘+’ side, and 
continues counting up from Level 
I, ending on Level III (15+3=18).
6. Victory Conditions
A player can win the game in one of four ways:
6.1 Pyramids
The player who builds the Pyramids immediately wins the 
game.
6.2 Five Heroes and/or Wonders
A player who builds his fifth Hero and/or Wonder wins the 
game at the end of Phase 3: Build.
If several players build their fifth Hero and/or Wonder during 
the same Build Phase, the player who holds the Culture 
Leader Title wins. If none hold the Culture Leader title, they 
tie for the win.
6.3 Four Capital and/or Legendary Cities 
A player wins when he occupies or controls 4 Capitals and/or 
Legendary Cities at the end of Phase 4: Move & Battle.
6.4 Leader Titles
A player wins if he claims all three Leader Titles (Trade, 
Culture, and Military) at the end of Phase 5: Claim Leadership.
7. Heroes and Wonders
The Heroes and Wonders powers always have priority over 
other game rules.
Hero/Wonder 
Artwork
Leader Bonuses. Example: 
The Queen of Sheba 
receives a 
+1 Culture and 
+1 Military 
 Track bonus.
Power Icons
Name
8. Diplomacy
Players may talk with each other and negotiate deals. But 
promises and deals may be broken at any time. 
Example: The Roman player promises the Greek player that 
he will not invade Dacia if the Greek player does not build a 
Trireme in Mare Ionium. On the next Roman Move & Battle 
turn, he promptly ‘forgets’ his promise and moves into Dacia.
Players may never exchange Heroes, Wonders, Buildings, 
Units, Resources, or Control. 
9. Questions &Answers
Build
Q: The Culture Leader has selected my opponent to build 
before I do. I am afraid he will build the Pyramids to instantly 
win the game. I possess Perseus. Can I go first, build the 
Pyramids, and instantly win the game?
A: Yes, you can go first, build the Pyramids, and win the game. 
Q: Am I limited to how many Units I can build?
A: Yes, you cannot build more Units than supplied with the 
game. You may never willingly destroy a Unit on the map.
Q: Are we limited to the Resources supplied in the game?
A: Yes. 
Move and Battle
Q: I move into a Province ‘At War’ occupied by Legions from 
several opposing players. Whom do I battle?
A: Choose one opponent and battle. There can be only one 
Battle per Province (or Sea) per turn.
Q: A Greek Conqueror occupies an Egyptian Control Marker 
at the beginning of his Move and Battle Phase. However, the 
Greek Conqueror no longer controls an adjacent or adjoining 
Province, since he lost a Trireme connecting him to his 
controlled Provinces. What happens to the Control Marker 
that would have been converted?
A: The Egyptian Control Marker is still removed, but the 
Greek Conqueror does not replace it with one of his own. The 
Province becomes un-controlled and nobody collects any of its 
Building Resources.
1 Hero affects building for a Victory Condition: 
➢➢perseus allows you to build first, either your fifth Hero or 
the Pyramids, and win the game immediately. The Perseus 
player’s decision to builds first, preceeds the Trade Leader’s 
choice. 

ɰ -10-
queen of Sheba
Once per round, you may 
immediately convert an 
opponent’s Control Marker 
in the same round that you 
first occupy it by sacrificing 
the occupying legion (4.3.3).
1 Culture, 1 Military
spartacus
Once per round, you may 
build one Legion for 1 Coin 
or 1 Gladiator (3.1.2).
10. Hero power descriptions
caesar
All of your Legions add +1 
to each of their Battle Die 
rolls when you are the Active 
Player.
pericles
All of your Legions add +2 to 
each of their Battle Die rolls 
when you are not the Active 
Player.
antigone 
Phase 2. Trade Resources
After the Trade Leader has 
announced the numbeJPor of 
Resources to be exchanged, 
you may decide to alter 
the number of Resources 
you offer (from 0 up to 5 
Resources of your choice).
2 Trade, 2 Culture
castor & polLux
Upon recruitment (when 
built), you choose to gain the 
power of a Hero under the 
control of another player for 
the rest of the game. 
You may not copy starting 
Heroes, Wonders, or Perseus.
You do not receive that 
Hero’s Leader Bonus.
cleopatra 
You may:
➢➢substitute 1 Coin for a 
Commodity in each set of 
Commodities, and/or 
➢➢substitute 1 Commodity 
for a Coin in each set of 
Coins.
hannibal
You may use one Commodity 
type twice in each set of 
Commodities.
Example: Iron, Iron, Wood.
circe 
You can place your Legions 
on empty Caravan spaces to 
act as Caravans.
Any Legions used this 
way must be placed onto 
a Caravan Icon during the 
Move & Battle Phase.
1 Trade, 1 Military
hercules 
No special abilities other than 
Leader Bonuses. 
2 Trade, 2 Culture, 2 Military
perseus 
You may overrule the 
Culture Leader and dictate 
that you build first to build 
either your fifth Hero or 
the Pyramids and then 
immediately win the game.
Cannot be copied by 
Castor & Pollux.
1 Trade, 2 Culture, 1 Military
gilgamesh
Once per round you may 
build one Fortress for only 1 
Coin or 1 Stone (3.1.2).
Nebuchadnezzar
You add 5 to your dice roll 
total in a Land Battle taking 
place in a Province you 
Control. 
You must have at least one 
Unit in this Province for this 
to occur.
hammurabi
You may build one Control 
Marker each round for free 
in an open or unopposed 
Province adjacent to or 
adjoining a Province that was 
under your Control at the 
beginning of the Round.
hamilcar
You may double Pillage 
income:
➢➢2 Coins for a City, 
➢➢2 Commodities for a 
Caravan, 
➢➢1 Coin and 1 Legendary 
Commodity for a 
Legendary City. 
1 Trade, 1 Culture, 1 Military
Penthesilea
Once per Round, you may 
build one Legion in your 
Capital City Province, at 
no cost, for each of your 
Provinces occupied by one or 
more opponents.
2 Culture, 2 Military
RAMSES II
You may roll one additional 
die during all Land Battles. 
You must have at least one 
Unit in the Province for this 
to occur. 

ɰ -11-
ɰ Definitions
Active Player - The player whose turn it is.
Adjacent Province - A Province 
sharing a boundary line that is not 
separated by water.
Adjoining Province - A Province 
connected to another Province by Seas 
occupied by a player’s Triremes.
At War - A Province containing two 
or more players’ Units after the Move 
and Battle Phase.
Buildings - Caravans, Markets, Cities, 
Capital Cities, Legendary Cities, and 
Temples. 
Capital City Province - The Province 
a player’s Capital City is located in.
City (1.2) - Regular, Capital, or 
Legendary.
Control - A player controls a Province 
if he has his Control Marker in it. He 
then also controls all Buildings in this 
Province that are not occupied by 
opponent Legions.
Controlling Player - A player who 
has placed his Control Marker in a 
Province. He may now build Units and 
Buildings in this Province, if there are 
no opposing Units.
Hero - A tile that can be purchased 
which gives the player extra powers 
and/or Leader Bonuses (7.0).
Legendary City - Ierusalem, 
Syracusae, or Troia.
Legendary Commodity - Same 
as a regular Commodity, but 
randomly drawn from the Legendary 
Commodity Draw Pile (1.4)
Occupy (4.3.2) - An attacker becomes 
the Conqueror of a Province if he is the 
only one to have Units remaining in an 
opponent controlled Province at the 
end of his Move & Battle turn. 
With his Legions, the Conqueror may 
now choose to immediately Pillage, 
occupy the opponent’s Buildings (4.3.2) 
in order to collect their Resources 
in the next round, or to occupy the 
opponent’s Control Marker (4.3.3) in 
order to hopefully convert it to his own 
Control Marker in the next round.
Pillage (4.3.1) - Destroying one, and 
only one, Building of the Conqueror’s 
choice in a Province.
Province - A land area.
Reserves - Resource and Building 
Stockpiles available to all players to 
draw from during the game.
Resources - Commodities and Coins.
Round - Consists of Phases 1 through 5.
Turn - In each Phase, players take 
turns as the Active Player.
Units - Triremes, Legions, Fortresses, 
and other special fighting forces.
Wonder - A tile that can be purchased 
and which gives the player extra 
powers and/or Leader Bonuses.
Statue of Zeus 
At the beginning of the 
Move & Battle Phase, you 
may declare yourself at peace 
with an opponent (never the 
same opponent two Rounds 
in a row). 
This opponent’s Legions, in 
all Provinces you control, are 
returned to their Capital City 
Province. For the remainder 
of this Round, neither of you 
may Battle against the other 
on Land or Sea, or enter the 
other’s controlled Provinces.
Lighthouse of Pharos
Once per round you may 
build one Trireme for only 
1 Coin or 1 Wood (3.1.2).
Hanging gardens
Each round you may store 
and keep up to 2 different 
unused Commodities, in 
addition to 2 Coins.
2 Trade
Temple of artemis
You may take 1 extra Coin 
each round during the 
Collect Resources Phase. 
Mare Nostrum - Empires Rules v54
Game Design: Serge Laget. Development Team: Serge Laget, Bruno Cathala, Olivier Chanry, Thierry 
Mattray, Franck Saverys, Maximilien Da Cunha
English Rules: Uwe Eickert 
Rules Review and Editing: Alan Niedermayer, Andrew Ronzino, Van Willis, William Bukowski, 
Christian Burnett, Matthew DeGoey, Patrick Dignam Jr., Charley Elsden, Simon George, Patrick Havert, 
Mike Horn, Jonas Kissling, Ferdinand Köther , Dan Licata, Jacopo Maurizi, Nick Neill, Øyvind Ølberg, 
Alex Pile, Mike Qunell, Tyler Sager, Daniel Thibault, Steven Townshend, Luk van Baelen, Van Willis
 
Mare Nostrum - Empires AYG 5420
Copyright © 2016 Academy Games, Inc.
through license from ASYNCRON games.
Academy Games, Inc
2201 Commerce Drive
Fremont, Ohio USA
419-307-6531
English Language Rules Copyright © 2015-2016 Academy Games
www.AcademyGames.com
colossus of Rhodes
You may take 1 Commodity 
of your choice from the 
Resource Reserves after all 
players have collected their 
Resources.
Announce your choice to the 
other players.
 11. Wonder power descriptions
ɰ Index
At War ........................ 4.2.1
Battle ........................... 4.2
Building	...................... 3.1.2
Build Phase ................ 3.0
City (Capital) ............ 1.2
Collect Resources	..... 1.1
Control ...................... 1.3
Control Marker ........ 3.1.1
Controlling Player ... 3.1.1
Conqueror ................ 4.3
Conquest .................. 4.3
Costs.......................... 3.0
Culture Leader ....... 5.0
Diplomacy .............. 8.0
Exchange Marker	... 2.1
Land Movement .... 4.1.2
Leader Track .......... 3.1.4, 5.0
Legendary City ...... 1.2
Legendary Commodity ... 1.4
Military Leader ...... 5.0
Movement .............. 4.1
Occupy Building ... 4.3.2
Pillage ........................ 4.3.1
Provincial Control ..... 4.3.3
Pyramids ..................... 6.1
Sea Movement ............ 4.1.1
Trade Leader ............... 5.0
Trading Resources ...... 2.2
Unit ............................... 3.1.2
Unused Commodities .. 3.0
Victory .......................... 6.0