R U L E S
B O O K L E T
FOR 2 OR 3 PLAYERS BY RICHARD SIV´EL
VERSION 2.4
In October 1740, Charles VI, the German emperor and the
Austrian head of state, dies. Succession falls on his oldest
daughter, the 23 year old Maria Theresa. However, by Impe-
rial law and tradition, women cannot succeed to the Imperial
throne.
Although the other states of Europe had agreed to Maria
Theresa’s succession only a few years before by signing the
Pragmatic sanction, her enemies now regard Austria as easy
prey.
Bavaria and Saxony lay claim to large swathes of
Hapsburg possessions. Supported by France, Bavaria is even
claiming the Imperial title itself. And what could be easier to
achieve? Austria is isolated and ruled by a young, inexperi-
enced, and, it is assumed, weak woman.
In December 1740, the War of the Austrian Succession
ﬁnally breaks out. Seizing the opportunity, Frederick II of
Prussia – himself King for only six months – invades the
Austrian province Silesia, driven by his ambition for power
and personal glory. The Prussian surprise attack takes Silesia
with scarcely a ﬁght.
In Spring 1741, Bavaria, Saxony and France take up arms
as well.
Engulfed by this wave of attacks, Austria seems
doomed.
However, the attackers have underestimated Maria Theresa,
her strength of character, and her ﬁerce tenacity. Against
the advice of her ministers, she is not willing to give up the
tiniest shred of her inheritance . . .

BASIC CONCEPT
MARIA is a game for 2 or 3 players based on the War of the
Austrian Succession (1740–1748). The game can be played in
2 variants: the introductory game (9 turns to play, about 90
min., with simpliﬁed rules) or the advanced game (12 turns,
3 to 5 hours, with the full set of rules).
Sections 1 to 13 give the 3-player rules that are valid for
both variants. Sections 15 to 23 give rules that are only for
the advanced game.
Additional rules that are advanced-
game-only are included in sections 1 to 13, highlighted by
grey boxes. The additional rules for 2 players are to be found
in section 24.
The introductory game victory conditions are in section
14. The advanced game victory conditions are in section 23.
The game MARIA includes:
• 1 game board
• 1 political display
• 22 stickers for generals & hussars
• 1 die-cut sheet with 130 markers
• 192 cards, in detail:
◦4 Tactical Cards decks, 38 cards each
◦25 Political Cards
◦2×6 National Cards (English, German)
◦3 playing aids
• 1 compendium-sheet for the Political Cards
• this rules booklet (incl. 4 army sheets in the middle of
this booklet), and:
20 generals
in 6 colours
10 supply trains
in 6 colours
2 hussars
(white)
THE PLAYERS
The 3 players take the roles of Maria Theresa, Frederick, and
Louis XV. They control the following powers:
• Maria Theresa: Austria (white)
• Frederick: Prussia (blue), Saxony (green), Pragmatic
Army (grey)
• Louis XV: France (red), Bavaria (orange)
Comment: The Pragmatic Army was comprised of soldiers from Great
Britain, the Netherlands and the Electorate of Hanover.
Austria, Prussia, France, and the Pragmatic Army are
major powers, while Bavaria and Saxony are minor powers.
The following powers are allied to each other:
• France, Bavaria, Prussia, and Saxony.
• Austria and the Pragmatic Army.
Powers that are not allied to each other are enemies.
Some allied powers co-operate:
• France and Bavaria.
• Prussia and Saxony.
• Austria and the Pragmatic Army.
Comment: As can be seen, Frederick’s role in the game is schizophrenic.
When he plays Prussia and Saxony, he is Austria’s enemy, but when he
plays the Pragmatic Army he is Austria’s ally. But don’t worry! It all
works.
THE GAME COMPONENTS
3.1
The playing pieces
Every power has generals and supply trains, hereafter re-
ferred to as pieces. Austria also has 2 hussars. Hussars are
never called pieces.
Every general has a name and a rank number.
Before
playing the game for the ﬁrst time, stickers must be applied
to the generals for each power (blue on blue, red on red, etc.)
The 2 hussar stickers go on the white hussar disks.
Comment: For technical reasons, the sticker sheet has 2 blank stickers.
The die-cut markers are of the following types:
Victory marker
Elector marker
Turn marker
Political marker
Change of income
Subsidy marker
3.2
The game board and the political display
The game board includes 2 maps: The Flanders map and
the Bohemia map.
A rectangular grid divides the maps into 44 sectors. Each
sector is assigned one suit:
hearts, diamonds, clubs, or
spades. These suits affect the play of Tactical Cards in re-
solving combat.
Home country. The home country of a power includes all
the territories in its colour. Note that the Flanders map in-
cludes white territories that are part of Austria’s home coun-
try. Silesia (Schlesien) is not home country for any power at
the beginning of the game, but during the advanced game it
can become Prussian home country.
The maps show cities connected by roads. The thick roads
are main roads. Cities connected by a road are adjacent.
Note that there are roads that connect the Flanders map and
the Bohemia map. Some cities are special: these include mi-
nor fortresses, major fortresses, and set-up cities.
Major fortress
Minor fortress
Set-up cityg
Control of fortresses: During the game, a power con-
trols all of the fortresses inside its home country not marked
with a victory marker, and all the fortresses outside its home
country marked with one of the power’s victory or elector
markers.
There are 9 special fortresses that give the controlling
power one elector’s vote each (for instance, Berlin). Elec-
tor’s votes decide the imperial election, for which the Elec-
toral College (see the bottom edge of the board) is used, too.
In the top-left corner of the board, there is a victory box
display: 8 boxes for battle victories (2 for each of the 4 major
powers), and 4 other victory boxes.
Near the edge of the board, each major power has an off-
map box and a box for its pool of victory markers.
The political display is explained in section 17.
COMMENT: Off-map boxes are used for generals sent to distant theatres
of operations (e.g., Italy). As long as a general is in an off-map box he is
completely out of the game.

HOW TO START
Players can decide randomly or by mutual agreement
who is playing which role.
Put the turn marker on the “1” space on the time track
(see the top-right corner of the board).
In the middle of this booklet are the army sheets. Divide
one army sheet into four and give each player his respective
quarter. Set aside the quarter “Winter Scoring” for later use.
Set up all pieces as indicated on the game board. (The
army sheets provide map coordinates.)
Generals go on
set-up cities marked with their rank number in their colour.
Supply trains go on set-up cities marked with a “T” in their
colour. The 2 Austrian hussars go beside the board. NOTES:
1.) One Prussian general starts in the “Ostpreussen” off-map
box and one Prussian supply train starts in the “Silesia” vic-
tory box . Both pieces are out of the game at game start. 2.)
After setup, set-up cities are treated like regular cities.
Put the following number of victory markers for each
major power in its corresponding pool: Prussia 13, France
11, Pragmatic Army 8, Austria 8.
Tactical Card
Political Card
National Card
Shufﬂe one of the four Tactical Card decks for immediate
use as the draw deck. Set aside the other 3 decks for later.
Prussia puts 1 victory marker each on its fortresses in Sile-
sia (Liegnitz and Glogau). Austria puts victory markers on
the other 5 Silesian fortresses. IMPORTANT: In the advanced
game, these markers come out of the pool.
Each power draws its initial hand of Tactical Cards.
France receives 2, Bavaria 5, Prussia 9, Saxony 3, Pragmatic
Army 3, Austria 5.
The army sheets indicate the numbers of troops each
power has at the start of the game.
Each player secretly
assigns all of a power’s troops to its generals by writing
numbers in the boxes next to the names of the generals. Each
general must receive a minimum of 1 troop, but cannot re-
ceive more than 8 troops. Some generals, however, have
higher minimums for initial setup; these are indicated on the
army sheets.
Example: Prussia has 22 troops. In compliance with the minimum set-up
values, Friedrich receives 8 troops, Schwerin 4, Erbprinz Leopold 4, der
Alte Dessauer 6.
Mark the fortresses K¨oln and Mannheim with French
elector markers, and the fortresses Mainz and Trier with
Austrian-Pragmatic elector markers.
In the Electoral College, put 1 elector marker of the corre-
sponding colour in each of the 9 boxes. (For instance, put a
Prussian elector markers in the “Berlin” box.)
Sort the Political Cards into four decks, one for each year
from 1741 to 1744. Shufﬂe each deck. Then stack the decks
one on top of the other in chronological order (1741 on top,
1744 at the bottom) to create one combined deck.
On the political display, put 1 political marker onto each
of the 3 tracks. The marker goes in the box with a star.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
The game is played in turns.
Each turn consists of 5
stages, which are carried out in strict order:
1. Major Powers conduct politics (advanced game only).
2. Austria places its hussars.
3. Action stage of France and Bavaria.
4. Action stage of Prussia and Saxony.
5. Action stage of Austria and Pragmatic Army.
The action stages are the core of the game. Every action
stage is divided into 5 phases. The powers that share an
action stage are the active powers and they act in each phase
simultaneously. This is true even for Austria and the Prag-
matic Army, although they are played by different players.
The 5 phases are carried out in the following strict order:
1. Tactical Cards. The active powers draw new Tactical
Cards.
2. Supply of every active general is checked.
3. Movement. All active pieces may move. This includes
conquest of objectives and re-entry of supply trains.
4. Combat. Active generals must attack adjacent enemy
generals.
5. Retroactive conquests are checked for.
After all stages are completed, the turn track marker is
advanced by one space, and the next turn starts.
Winter. After every 3 turns, the normal ﬂow of the game
is interrupted by winter. Winter is not a game turn: it does
not consist of any of the above stages. During winter, gener-
als who were formerly removed from the board may re-enter
and troops can be recruited. The powers conduct these activ-
ities in the same order used for action stages. After winter,
normal game turns resume.
The advanced game includes winter scoring.
STACKS AND TROOPS
Before presenting the detailed rules for the different phases, it is
helpful to introduce the basic rules for stacks and troops.
Only 1 piece may ever be placed on each city.
EXCEPTION: Two generals may occupy one city to form a
stack, but only if they belong to the same power or to co-
operating powers. A stack of generals from co-operating
powers is called a mixed stack. In both cases, the general
with the lower rank number is the supreme commander and
is placed on top of the stack. If two generals have the same
rank number (for instance, Prussia No. 1 and Saxony No. 1),
the player must decide at the moment he creates the stack
which will be the supreme commander.
Wrong !!
One power
Co−operating powers
Every general has to command at least 1 troop.
No general may ever command more than 8 troops.
In a (mixed) stack, generals must command at least 2
troops in total, and can never command more than 16 troops
in total.
The allocation of the troops among a power’s generals

is written on the power’s army sheet and kept secret.
If
during the game, the number of troops assigned to a gen-
eral changes, the sheet is updated with the new number. A
player has to state the current troop-total of a power if asked
to do so. However, the troop strength assigned to a particu-
lar general is made public only during combat.
As long as generals of one power are stacked, a player
can transfer troops between them whenever he desires. He
can do it even during the action stage of another player.
Troops can never be transferred between generals which are
not stacked or which belong to different powers.
A general who loses his last troop is removed from the
board, unless the general is in a stack and it is possible to
transfer at least one troop to him. In such a case transfer is
mandatory: a general never is removed from the board as
long as he has one troop or as long as one troop can be trans-
ferred to him.
Example: Friedrich and Schwerin are in a stack. They have 4 and 5 troops,
respectively, for a total of 9 troops. The Prussian player decides to transfer
troops in this stack. Friedrich receives 7 troops, and Schwerin 2. He writes
down the new allocation of troops on his army sheet.
Example: Friedrich and Schwerin like above. In combat they lose 8 troops.
The last surviving troop goes to Friedrich, and the troopless Schwerin
leaves the map. As a variant, suppose they lost only 7 troops. In this
case both generals would stay on the map with 1 troop each.
HUSSARS
Austria has 2 hussars, which it places on cities to compli-
cate enemy supply (see section 9).
Hussars are placed in the hussars stage. A hussar can be
placed on any city, within the following restrictions:
• The city must be on the Bohemia map, and
• it may not be more than 4 cities distant from an Aus-
trian general, and
• it is currently not occupied by any piece.
If a hussar is still on the board (from a previous turn),
Austria may leave him where he is or place him anew.
Hussars do not block pieces’ movement, re-entrance or
retreat. If a piece moves, re-enters or retreats into or through
a hussar’s city the hussar is removed from the board, but can
be placed again next turn.
TACTICAL CARDS PHASE
At the beginning of its action stage, every active power
draws a certain number of Tactical Cards (TCs) from the
draw deck:
France
4 (5)
Bavaria
2 (1)
Prussia
Saxony
TC
Pragm. Army
Austria
NOTE: In the ﬁrst 3 turns, France draws 4 TCs per turn, and Bavaria 2
TCs due to a subsidy. Starting in turn 4, the subsidy is optional. In any
turn that France chooses not to give Bavaria the subsidy, France draws 5
TCs and Bavaria 1 TC.
A minor power does not receive TCs (not even subsi-
dies) if its major fortress is enemy controlled.
Powers may never mix nor exchange their TCs. A power
accumulates its TCs until they are played. There is no max-
imum hand size. TCs may not be shown to other players
unless they are played. Every TC has a suit (
) and a
value from 2 to 10. There is a special wild card type called
“Reserve”. When a player plays a Reserve card, he declares
it as being any suit and any value from 1 to 8. NOTE: The
variable value is of great use in minimizing battle losses.
Hint: Keep each power’s National Card on top of its TC hand, so that you
don’t get confused about which hand belongs to which power.
Whenever TCs are played, they are set aside and sorted
according to their deck of origin. When the ﬁrst deck of TCs
has been used up, use the second deck as draw deck, and so
on. If the fourth deck is used up, form the new draw deck
by shufﬂing together the two decks which have accumulated
most discards.
In some situations, players have to pay for costs with TCs
(for instance supply, see section 9). For this, you pay with
TCs of any suit or combination of suits; only the values mat-
ter. If you overpay, you do not get change. For recruitment,
a Reserve card always counts as 8 points.
SUPPLY PHASE
Generals need supply. The supply status of generals is
checked exclusively in the supply phase of the power’s ac-
tion stage.
Inside his home country a general is always in supply.
REMINDER: At the beginning of the game, Silesia is not home
country for anyone (see 3.2).
Outside his home country, to be in supply a general needs
a supply path to a supply train of his own colour. This path
may not be longer than 6 cities. The path cannot be traced
through enemy pieces (generals and supply trains).
If a general cannot be supplied in his supply phase, he
is ﬂipped face-down and suffers an immediate loss of one
troop. If he is already face-down, he stays face-down and
loses 2 troops. If he is face-down, but back in supply, he is
turned face-up again.
Face-down generals cannot conquer fortresses.
Out of supply:
Flip face−down &
Each general −1 troop !
Hussars. Every general hostile to Austria who is tracing
a supply path through a hussar must pay with TCs to be in
supply. The cost is equal to the length of the supply path, 1
point of TC per city. (There is no additional penalty for trac-
ing through two hussars.) A power must pay if it can. If it
cannot pay the full amount, it must pay all its TCs and, in
addition, any general (owner’s choice) whose path has still
not been completely paid for is out of supply with the usual
consequences (loss of troops, ﬂipped face-down etc.).
4 cities, 2 generals = Pay 8 points of TC !

MOVEMENT PHASE
10.1
Movement
In their movement phase, the active powers move their
pieces. A power may move as many or as few of its pieces as
it wishes, but one piece must ﬁnish its move before another
can start. A piece can be moved only once. Movement is
from city to city along roads.
A general may move up to 3 cities, even back and forth.
If the entire move is along a main road, the general may
move an additional city, up to a total of 4.
Main road +1 !
A supply train moves like a general, but one city less, i.e.
2 cities (and 3 on main roads).
Only one piece may ever be placed on each city
(EXCEPTION: Stacks). Under no circumstances may a piece
jump over another piece. When one general stacks with an-
other, movement is ﬁnished for both immediately. When a
face-up and a face-down general stack, both keep their fac-
ing.
A general can enter a city containing an enemy supply
train. In this case, the supply train is eliminated (remove it
from the board), and the general can continue moving.
Force march.
Under certain conditions a general may
force march. (Supply trains cannot force march.) On a force
march, a general may move up to 8 cities. A force march:
• must be entirely along a main road,
• may never enter or pass through an enemy-controlled
fortress. If a force march starts on an enemy-controlled
fortress, this fortress is never conquered.
• may never enter or pass through a city adjacent to an
enemy piece (either a general or a supply train).
Do not forget that enemy fortresses and enemy pieces
block a force march.
Force March = 8
Friendly fortresses
BLOCK !!
Enemy fortress
BLOCK !!
Only French and Austrian pieces may move from the
Flanders map to the Bohemia map, and vice versa.
Austrian and Pragmatic Army generals may stack only if
both players agree to do so.
If a dispute arises between the Pragmatic Army and Aus-
tria about the order in which they will move on the Flanders
map, they alternate moves on the Flanders map for the rest
of the turn, starting with the Pragmatic Army.
10.2
Re-entering supply trains
During its movement phase, a power may:
• bring an eliminated supply train back into play;
• eliminate a supply train voluntarily and immediately
bring it back into play again.
EXCEPTION: The sup-
ply train in the Silesia box cannot leave the box by this
method.
In both cases:
• The re-entering supply train costs 4 TC-points.
• The supply train can re-enter on a major fortress in-
side its home country, but is not allowed to move in
the current movement phase. A major power can also
choose a major fortress of a co-operating minor power
for re-entering its supply train.
• The chosen fortress must be empty and must be
friendly controlled. If such a fortress does not exist, the
supply train cannot re-enter. NOTE: A fortress with a
hussar is considered to be empty.
Example: A French supply train re-enters in M¨unchen. This is possible,
since Bavaria is a minor power co-operating with France. The re-entry
costs 4 TC-points. France pays with a 5 (and does not get any change).
10.3
Conquering fortresses
Control of fortresses changes due to conquest.
Only
a face-up general may conquer fortresses.
Only enemy-
controlled fortresses can be conquered.
(Prussia, for in-
stance, cannot conquer a French-controlled fortress.)
An
enemy-controlled fortress is conquered when:
• a face-up general moves out of the fortress (either by
moving through it, or by starting its move on it and
moving away); and
• the fortress is not protected at that moment.
A fortress is protected, if a general of the power currently
in control of the fortress is positioned 1, 2, or 3 cities away.
(It is protected even if there are pieces between the protect-
ing general and the fortress.) Also, generals of co-operating
allies protect each others’ fortresses in the same way. For in-
stance, a general of the Pragmatic Army protects an Austrian
fortress and vice versa.
A general cannot conquer fortresses when force march-
ing (see section 10.1). A general may conquer more than
one fortress in a single move. After conquest, a conquered
fortress may still be entered by other pieces.
Retroactive Conquest. If a general moves through (or
away from) a protected fortress, put a marker with a ques-
tion mark on the fortress. In the retroactive conquest phase
of that same stage, check each fortress with a question mark.
If the fortress is not protected anymore (due to retreats af-
ter combat), it is retroactively conquered. If the fortress is
still protected, it is not conquered and the question mark
is removed. Note that the general who moved through the

fortress does not have to be the general that forced the en-
emy retreat. It is only important that both the move and
retreat occurred in the same action stage.
In the advanced game, when you take a question mark
out of the pool, return it to the pool if the fortress is not
retroactively conquered.
Tournai
Brüssel
Conquered!
Protected!
Example: A French general moves through Tournai and Br¨ussel. The un-
protected Tournai is conquered. The Austrian-controlled Br¨ussel is pro-
tected by the Pragmatic Army general; it is not conquered.
Brüssel
Retroactively conquered!
Retreat
Example (continued): Br¨ussel was marked with a question mark in the
French movement phase. During the combat phase of the same action stage,
the protecting general has to retreat thus leaving Br¨ussel now unprotected.
Therefore it is retroactively conquered.
After conquest, change of control is indicated:
If the previous controlling power has a victory marker on
the fortress, remove the marker. (In the advanced game, re-
turn the marker to the pool.)
If the conquered fortress is Trier, Mainz,
K¨oln,
or
Mannheim, ﬂip the elector marker to its other side.
NOTE: These 4 fortresses are special in two ways: 1.) They
are never marked with victory markers; 2.) If the Pragmatic
Army or Austria conquers one of them, they control it jointly.
For the other fortresses, the conquering power marks the
fortress with its own victory marker if:
• it is inside an enemy home country; or
• it is inside a friendly minor power home country.
(This is possible if the conquest is actually a re-
conquest.); or
• it is in Silesia (Schlesien).
(Fortresses in Silesia are
ALWAYS marked with victory markers!)
In all other cases the fortress is NOT marked with a vic-
tory marker. (The conquest is a re-conquest of a friendly
major power home country fortress. Such a fortress, if not
controlled by an enemy, is controlled by the major power
that owns the territory, and the territory’s colour indicates
control. Silesian fortresses, however, are exempt from this
rule, see above.)
A fortress conquered by a minor power is marked with
a victory marker of the co-operating major power following
the above rules.
Comment: Players should note that the re-conquest of a minor power
fortress is rewarded with a victory marker, while the re-conquest of a major
power fortress is not. This subtle difference is for reasons of game balance.
Examples: a) Austria conquers a fortress in Bavaria. An Austrian victory
marker is placed, since the fortress is in enemy home country.
b) Bavaria re-conquers this Austrian-controlled fortress. The Austrian vic-
tory marker is removed. Since Bavaria is a minor power, the fortress is
marked with a victory marker. A French marker is used, since France is
Bavaria’s co-operating major power.
c) The Pragmatic Army conquers a French-controlled fortress in the Aus-
trian Netherlands. Since this is friendly major power home country, no
victory marker is placed; the French marker is simply removed.
COMBAT PHASE
11.1
Combat
Every general who is adjacent to an enemy general at the
beginning of his power’s combat phase must attack. This
is true even if the generals are located on different maps.
If more than one attack must be made, the attacking player
chooses the order of resolution.
Friedrich &
Neipperg
Schwerin
An attack is resolved as a card game using Tactical Cards
(TCs). A player may play only those TCs which are of the
same suit as the sector in which his general is positioned.
First, the opposing players state how many troops their
participating generals command.
The difference between
these two numbers is called the initial score. This score is
negative for the player with fewer troops, and positive for
the other one.
Next, the player with the negative score has the right to
play a single TC of his suit. He adds the TC value to the
initial score. This results in the new score which he states
aloud. The score is always the same for both players, except
that it is negative for one and positive for the other. As long
as his score is negative, a player has the right to play another
TC.
Whenever a score becomes zero or positive, the right to
play TCs switches to the other player (whose score is nega-
tive now). Now he may play a a TC using the same proce-
dure. The right to play TCs keeps switching until the player
with the right to play is unable or unwilling to do so. At that
point his general is defeated.
The defeated general loses as many troops as the ﬁnal
negative score (but not more than he commanded) and is
retreated the same number of cities.
The winner loses no troops and remains in place.
A tie. If a player receives the right to play a TC on a score
of zero, he must play a card if he has any of the correct suit
(he is not obligated to play a Reserve). If he has none (and
if he is not willing to play an existing Reserve), combat ends
as a tie. In a tie, neither side loses troops nor has to retreat.
Special cases:
• If the attack starts with a score of zero, the attacking
player plays TCs ﬁrst (following the above rule).
• Austria makes its attacks before the Pragmatic Army
makes its.
• Stacked generals always ﬁght together.
• If the stack is a mixed stack, only the TCs of the power
in supreme command may be used.
However, any
troop losses are taken by the other power. If its troops
are not enough to fulﬁll the required loss, the power in
supreme command takes the remaining losses.
• If a general/stack starts the combat phase adjacent to
more than one opponent, he has to ﬁght them one af-
ter the other. If more than one general/stack are adja-
cent to one opponent, they have to attack one after the
other.
• A general who had to retreat may not attack or be at-
tacked again in that combat phase.

Neipperg (Austria A, 2 troops) has moved adjacent to the stack Friedrich and
Schwerin (Prussia P, 4 troops). He has to attack in his upcoming combat phase.
Initial score = difference of armies = 2 – 4 = 2
Austria is behind by 2 troops and has the right to play TCs. (Neipperg could also
opt to retreat immediately, thus losing all his troops, but saving the Austrian
Tactical Cards for another use.)
Neipperg is in a diamonds sector.
A has:
7 Reserve
A is –2 and plays:
New score:
–2 + 10 = +8
Friedrich is in a spades sector.
P has:
Now the score is positive for Austria (and therefore negative for Prussia).
The right to play TC switches.
P is –8 and plays:
–8 + 5 = –3
P is −3 and plays:
–3 + 3 = 0
The right to play TCs switches again. On a score of zero Austria may only break
off combat if it has no diamonds. If it had only the Reserve, then it could opt to
continue the combat or to break off (the combat would then result in a tie). Since
Austria still has diamonds, it must play:
A is 0 and plays:
0 + 7 = +7
P is –7 and plays:
–7 + 4 = –3
Prussia is now running out of spades and decides to accept defeat with a ﬁnal
score of –3. Friedrich/Schwerin lose 3 troops and have to retreat 3 cities. Only
one troop is left, therefore the lower ranked Schwerin is removed from the board.
11.2
Retreat
A defeated general has to retreat before the next attack is
resolved. The length of the retreat is the same as the number
of troops lost. During a retreat a stack may never split up.
The winning player chooses the retreat path, according to
the following conditions:
• The general must retreat the full distance and has to
ﬁnish his retreat as far away as possible from the win-
ning general (only the winning general matters).
• A retreating general may never enter a city a second
time.
• A retreating general may not enter or move through
a city containing any other piece (enemy or friendly);
not even to eliminate a supply train nor to stack with
a friendly general.
A general can retreat through a
fortress, but cannot conquer it.
If a general cannot retreat the full distance, he loses all his
troops and is removed from the map.
NOTE: Only French and Austrian generals may retreat from
the Bohemia map to the Flanders map, and vice versa. If the
only retreat option for a mixed stack is on the other map, a
general who may not retreat to this map loses all his troops,
while the other will retreat.
Black has lost 3 troops, and has to retreat 3 cities!
Possible retreat cities
No retreat of 3 cities possible!
RETROACTIVE CONQUEST PHASE
Retroactive conquests are checked for after all combat is
executed.
The rules have already been explained in sec-
tion 10.3.
WINTER
After every 3 turns, Winter occurs. During winter new
troops can be recruited and generals formerly removed from
the board may re-enter.
Every troop costs 4 TC-points.
Generals re-enter for free, but each general must receive
at least one new troop.
New troops can be used to reinforce a general already
on map, or they can be given to a re-entering general, or
any combination thereof. A player must declare how many
troops he is recruiting when he pays the TCs for them, but
he keeps secret which general(s) will receive them.
A general can re-enter on a major fortress inside its home
country, provided the major fortress is friendly controlled
and the result would not be an illegal stack. If such a fortress
does not exist, a general cannot re-enter. NOTE: Unlike sup-
ply trains, a major power general is not allowed to re-enter
on a co-operating minor power’s major fortress.
EXCEPTION: In the introductory game, French generals may
re-enter in M¨unchen if it is friendly controlled.
On the Flanders map, Austrian and Pragmatic Army gen-
erals alternate in re-entering, starting with the Pragmatic
Army; a mixed stack can be created even if the other player
would not agree.
A hussar or an enemy supply train does not prevent a
general from re-entering. If there is a hussar or an enemy
supply train on the major fortress where a general re-enters,
it is taken is taken off the board.
Winter scoring: In the advanced game, each major power
scores one point for each victory marker still in its pool (the
lower the better). The scores are written down on the "Win-
ter Scoring" sheet. After that, the sheet is folded in such a
way that no-one can read the numbers; they will not be re-
vealed before game end.
THE INTRODUCTORY GAME
The introductory game does not use the Flanders map.
Pieces on this map do not move; those pieces and their as-
signed troops do not participate in the game. The same is
true for the Prussian pieces starting in the “Silesia” victory
box and in the “Ostpreussen” off-map box.
Prussia, Saxony, Bavaria, and Austria, receive their nor-
mal TC-income. The income of France, however, is reduced
by 2 TCs. (France receives only 2 TCs on turns when it makes
a subsidy payment to Bavaria, and 3 TCs when it doesn’t a
subsidy payment). The Pragmatic Army does not participate
in the game and does not have any TC-income.
The game ends immediately when a player fulﬁlls his vic-
tory conditions. The victory conditions for each player are:
• Louis XV: Control of 9 fortresses in Austria.
• Frederick: Control of 12 fortresses in Austria and/or
Silesia (NOTE: 2 fortresses in Silesia are already Prus-
sian controlled at game start).
• Maria Theresa: It is the end of turn 9, and no other
player has won.

THE ADVANCED GAME
During the War of the Austrian Succession, the political situation was
very complex. Separate peace treaties, betrayals, and changes of alliance
were common in the war. Further, Italy was an important theatre of op-
erations, and Russia was an important factor. The advanced game rules
integrate all of these factors into the game.
GENERAL RULES
For the advanced game, both maps are used.
Basic goal of the game: A major power wins as soon as it
has emptied its pool of victory markers.
When a power marks a conquered fortress with a victory
marker, always use a marker from the pool. If a fortress
marked with a victory marker changes control, always re-
turn the marker to the pool of origin. NOTE: this is true even
for the victory markers that start the game in Silesia.
THE VICTORY BOXES
Victory markers may also be placed in victory boxes:
Battle victory. a) A victory in combat is worth 1 vic-
tory point for every 3 troops eliminated. If less than
3 troops were eliminated, but at least 1 general was
removed from the board, the combat is worth exactly 1 vic-
tory point. (NOT 1 per general!) The winner of the combat
wins that many victory points, and the loser loses that many
victory points.
b) For every general a power has to remove from the board
due to lack of supply, it loses one victory point.
In both cases: For each victory point won, a major power
moves one victory marker from its pool to one of its battle
boxes (until its battle boxes are full). For each point lost, it
moves one victory marker in the opposite direction (unless
its battle boxes are empty).
NOTE: Victory points won (or
lost) by minor powers count for (against) its co-operating
major power; victory points won (or lost) by a mixed stack
count for (against) the power in supreme command.
Example: Bavaria defeats Austria in combat with a ﬁnal score of +1. In
this example, Austria cannot retreat and loses all 10 of its troops involved.
The eliminated troops are worth 3 points. France (as Bavaria’s co-operating
major power) gets to move 3 victory markers to its battle boxes, but France
has only 2 boxes, so the third victory point is ignored. Prior to combat,
Austria had 1 victory marker in a battle box; it must return it to its pool.
3 Electors. On taking control of 3 of the 4 fortresses
of Mainz, Trier, K¨oln, Mannheim, France moves
1 victory marker from its pool to this box.
Sim-
ilarly, on the Pragmatic Army/Austria taking control of 3
of these fortresses, the Pragmatic Army (and only the Prag-
matic Army) moves 1 victory marker to this box. As soon
as a side controls less than 3 of these fortresses, it returns its
victory marker from this box to the pool.
Emperor. Depending on the result of the imperial
election, Austria or France move 1 victory marker
from its pool to this box (see section 18).
Italy. When the track “Italy” on the political display
calls for it, Austria or France move 1 victory marker
from its pool to this box (see section 17.5).
Silesia. When Prussia annexes Silesia, it moves 1
victory marker from its pool to this box and receives
its second supply train, see section 19.1).
POLITICS
At the beginning of every turn, the political stage takes
place. Only major powers may engage in politics. To do
so, each turn they may place 1 TC on the political display.
According to the values of the placed cards, the order of in-
ﬂuence is determined. In this order the major powers are al-
lowed to select a political card. The political stage is divided
into 5 phases:
1. Reveal 2 Political Cards.
2. Determine the political trump suit.
3. Major powers place TCs on the political display.
4. Determine order of inﬂuence.
5. Select Political Cards.
17.1
Reveal 2 Political Cards
The 2 top cards of the deck of Political Cards are turned
face-up.
17.2
Determine the political trump suit
The player who most recently had a combat win (even one
in which no victory points were awarded), decides which
suit will be political trump. He announces his choice.
If nobody has won a combat yet, reveal the top card of the
TC draw deck. The suit of this card is political trump. (If a
Reserve card is drawn, draw another card until you draw a
non-Reserve card.) Discard any revealed TCs.
17.3
Place TCs on the political display
Every major power may choose to place 1 TC face-down
on the corresponding space on the political display.
The
placement is executed in the order of the spaces from left
to right (Prussia goes ﬁrst). Players may place a trump TC, a
non-trump TC (i.e. a bluff), or no TC at all.
17.4
Determine order of inﬂuence
After all powers have placed their TC, turn them face-up.
A card not of the political trump suit is returned to the hand
of the power that played it. NOTE: Do not return cards left on
the display from previous turns (called “saved TCs”), even
if they do not match this turn’s trump suit.
On the political display, a Reserve TC always counts as 16
points in trumps.
Now, sum up for each major power all its TCs lying on
the political display (incl. all saved TCs). The power with
the highest sum has the greatest inﬂuence, followed by the
second-ranked major power, and so on. Ties are resolved in
favour of the power whose space is further to the right on
the display.
17.5
Select Political Cards
The major power with the greatest inﬂuence, is the ﬁrst to
decide whether it:
• saves its TC,
• or selects one of the 2 face-up Political Cards.
A major power may only select a Political Card on which
its coat of arms is depicted. If there is no such Political Card,
a power must save its TC. A major power may not select a
political card, if it currently has no TCs on the political dis-
play.

If a major power decides to save its TC, all its TCs on the
political display stay there. On the other hand, if it decides
to select a Political Card, all its TCs on the display go to the
discard pile; the power may then execute the selected Politi-
cal Card or discard it without effect (see below).
This process of selecting/saving is repeated by the major
power with the second greatest inﬂuence, then the third, and
so on. However, as soon as both Political Cards are selected,
all major powers whose turn is still to come take all their TCs
(including saved TCs) from the political display back to their
hands.
Once all major powers have had their chance to select a
card, any unselected face-up Political Cards are discarded
without effect.
Example: Prussia has 9 TC-points on the political display, Austria and
France have 3 points each, while the Pragmatic Army has 2 points. There-
fore, Prussia has greatest inﬂuence, followed by Austria, then France, and
lastly the Pragmatic Army. Prussia has ﬁrst choice, and decides to select
a Political Card. Since this card is of negative effect for Prussia, Prussia
discards it. Austria follows: Since the remaining Political Card does not
show the Austrian coat of arms, Austria has to save its TC (which remain
on the political display for future turns). Now, France chooses to select the
remaining Political Card for execution. Since all Political Card have now
been selected, the Pragmatic Army has to take back its TC into its hand,
despite the fact that it was a saved TC from a previous turn.
Example (variant): Like above, but France decides to save its TC as well,
and so does the Pragmatic Army. The unselected face-up Political Card is
discarded without effect.
Execution of Political Cards
When not discarded, a political card may be executed
completely or partially. The executing power may:
• follow the instruction on it; and/or
• shift the marker on the Italy, Russia, and/or Saxony
track according to the depicted arrows.
Some cards allow the shifting of the political marker to
the left or to the right; in this case the player may choose
in which direction the marker is shifted. Some cards allow a
shift of more than 1 box; in such cases, if the marker is shifted
at all, it must be shifted the full distance. Some cards allow
shifting of markers on two tracks; in such cases, a player can
shift the marker on none, one, or both of the tracks
Marker shifts are announced on selecting a card, but not
executed until after both cards have been selected.
Each
marker is then shifted by the sum of the announcements for
that marker (2 to the right plus 1 to the left results in 1 to the
right).
When a political marker reaches a box with an icon, a
penalty or a bonus is in effect. The colour of the icon refers
to the power being affected. The icons mean:
TC-penalty. The TC-income of the affected power is
decreased by 1 as long as the marker is in this box.
TC-bonus. The TC-income of the affected power is
increased by 1 as long as the marker is in this box.
Expeditionary corps.
The affected power has to
choose 1 of its generals to put into its off-map box.
If the power chooses a general not on the board, it
must immediately recruit 2 troops for him at a price
of 8 TC-points.
Victory point.
The beneﬁting power puts 1 vic-
tory marker in the victory box “Italy”. The victory
marker is returned to the pool only when the polit-
ical marker is shifted back to the box marked with
the star!
When a power’s TC-income changes, use the income
markers “+1” or “-1” as a reminder; put them in front of the
affected player.
Some Political Cards give powers new troops. The power
immediately assigns these troops to its generals as desired. It
can even assign them to generals currently not on the board;
any such generals re-enter immediately, as per section 13, al-
though it is not winter.
A general in an off-map box leaves the off-map box as
soon as the penalty “expeditionary corps” is no longer in
effect. He is immediately placed on the city to which the
off-map box’s arrow is pointing. If this city is occupied by
another piece, the blocking piece is moved by its owner to
an adjacent city.
The Prussian General starting the game in the “Ost-
preussen” off-map box leaves the off-map box in the same
way. If, later in the game, Prussia suffers the “expeditionary
corps” penalty again, it has to put any one general back into
the off-map box.
IMPERIAL ELECTION
The Political Cards for the year 1742 include 1 additional
Card, the “Imperial Election”, which is not a real Political
Card. When this card is revealed, proceed like this:
1. Reveal one more Political Card (so that altogether 2
real Political Cards are revealed).
2. Put the “Imperial Election” card face-up on top of the
deck of Political Cards (as a reminder).
3. Elect the Emperor at the end of the current turn.
Note: The imperial election will be at the end of turn 4 at the earliest and
at the end of turn 7 at the latest.
Candidates for Emperor are Charles Albert of Bavaria and
Francis Stephen of Lorraine (Maria Theresa’s husband). There
are 9 elector votes. Whoever gets at least 5 votes is Emperor.
A power has 1 vote for each fortress it controls marked
with the “Elector’s vote” symbol .
Which power con-
trols which vote is tracked on the Electoral College display.
Whenever control of one of these fortresses changes, update
the Electoral College display accordingly.
Voting is conducted clockwise, starting with Austria. All
votes of Austria and the Pragmatic Army must be for Francis.
The other votes can be given to either candidate. A power
cannot abstain from voting.
NOTE: When Saxony controls
Dresden, the player currently playing Saxony decides for
whom the Dresden vote is.
If Francis becomes Emperor, Austria moves 1 victory
marker to the box “Emperor”. If Charles becomes Emperor,
France moves 1 victory marker to the box “Emperor”.
After the election, discard the “Imperial Election” card
and proceed with the normal game.

POLITICAL CHANGES
19.1
Prussia annexes Silesia
At the end of each Prussian action stage in which Prus-
sia controls all fortresses in Silesia (Schlesien), it may offer a
temporary peace to Austria. Peace may be offered more than
once, but can be accepted only once in the game. If Austria
accepts the offer:
1. Silesia is now Prussian home country. (NOTE: Breslau
becomes a re-entry site for Prussian pieces.)
2. If Saxony is a Prussian ally, the Saxony-marker is
moved to the box marked “S”. This makes Saxony neu-
tral (proceed according to section 19.3).
3. All Austrian victory markers in Prussia are returned
to the Austrian pool. Half (round up) of the Prussian
victory markers in Austria are set aside, the rest are
returned to the pool.
4. All non-Prussian pieces in Prussia or Poland are trans-
ferred to the nearest city (owner’s choice) in their
home country where they may legally stack. French
pieces may also be placed in Bavaria. Prussian pieces
outside Prussia are transferred to the nearest city
(owner’s choice) in Prussia (including Silesia) where
they may legally stack.
5. Prussia puts 1 victory marker in the victory box “Sile-
sia” and receives its second supply train which it im-
mediately places at no cost on any Prussian major
fortress (incl. Breslau).
6. Prussia is now neutral. It remains so until Prussia’s
action stage after next; the rules in 19.4 apply.
7. As soon as a Prussian piece leaves Prussia, the victory
markers set aside in step 3 are returned to the Prussian
pool.
NOTE: The annexion of Silesia is the only way for Prussia
to bring its second supply train into the game.
Example: Prussia and Austria make peace at the end of the Prussian action
stage of turn 5. The above steps 1 to 7 are executed. Now Prussia is neutral.
Until the beginning of Prussia’s action stage of turn 7, neither Austria nor
any other foreign power may enter Prussian territory. During that time-
span no combat with Prussian generals is possible (see section 19.4).
19.2
France reduces military objectives
At the end of any French action stage, when there are no
French generals inside Core-Austria (the part of Austria on
the Bohemia map), France may take all its victory markers
in Core-Austria from the board. Half of them (round up) are
not returned to the pool, but set aside.
After that, as soon as Bavaria or France conquers/re-
conquers a fortress on the Bohemia map (this can even be a
fortress in Saxony or Bavaria), the formerly set aside victory
markers are returned to the French pool. A second reduction
of military objectives is not possible.
19.3
Saxony’s defection
As well as through the execution of Political Cards, the
Saxony marker can also be shifted:
• if Prussia annexes Silesia (see section 19.1).
• 1 to the right for each victory marker Prussia has to
remove from a victory box, either due to defeat in bat-
tle or due to lack of supply. This applies even if no
marker is actually removed because the victory box is
empty. Austria can choose not to apply this shift (for
instance, if a shift is not in her interests).
NOTE: 1.) The Saxony political marker can be shifted more
than 2 boxes by a single combat. Thus, it is possible that
Saxony switches directly form the Status Prussian ally to the
status Austrian ally. 2.) The shifting of the Saxony marker is
performed after possible retreats.
When the Saxony marker stops in a “neutral” box , then:
• Saxony becomes neutral (the rules in 19.4 apply). Any
on-map Saxon pieces are immediately returned to their
set-up cities.
• Foreign pieces in Saxony are moved to the nearest city
(owner’s choice) in their home country where they
may legally stack. French pieces may also be placed
in Bavaria.
• Any victory markers on Saxon fortresses are returned
to their pools.
Prussian ally
Austrian ally
When the Saxony marker stops in the "Austrian ally" box,
Austria and Saxony become co-operating allies:
• Saxon pieces stay where they are. (EXCEPTION: If the
Saxon general is in a stack, player Maria Theresa moves
the general to the closest empty city.) If Saxony’s gen-
eral is not on the board, he may re-enter immediately
with newly recruited troops, as per the recruitment
rules (see section 13).
• Any victory markers on Saxon fortresses stay where
they are.
• Austria and Saxony co-operate. Austrian supply trains
may re-enter in Dresden.
Victory points earned (or
lost) by Saxony count for (or against) Austria. Saxony
receives 2 TCs per turn from now on, as per the Politi-
cal Display.
From the moment Saxony leaves the alliance with Prussia,
it is played by Maria Theresa. From now on it takes its actions
in the Austrian action stage. Note that it might be possible
that Saxony has two action stages on the turn it leaves the
Prussian alliance (ﬁrst Prussia’s, then Austria’s); neverthe-
less, it only draws TCs once per turn.
19.4
Neutrality
Prussia and Saxony can become neutral. A neutral power
participates normally in the game: It still receives its TC-
income, it may recruit troops, its generals and supply trains
may re-enter, and so on. The only restrictions are:
• Neutral pieces may never leave their home country.
• Neutral generals never participate in combat.
• Neutral territory may not be entered by foreign pieces,
nor can foreign pieces trace supply paths through it.
SUBSIDY CONTRACTS
Subsidies are TC-payments to allied powers. Only major
powers may give subsidies, and they can give subsidies only
to allied powers (minor or major).
In order to give/receive subsidies, a subsidy contract
must be made. The contract must be made for a ﬁxed du-
ration (for instance, 2 rounds). There may be not more than

one subsidy contract between a pair of powers at the same
time. Subsidy contracts may be cancelled at any time pro-
vided both powers agree.
EXCEPTION: The initial subsidy
contract between Bavaria and France cannot be cancelled.
As long as there is a subsidy contract, the giver hands out
exactly 1 TC of his TC-income to the recipient. This is done
before the giver looks at the drawn TCs. Use the subsidy
markers “S” as a reminder: Put as many S-markers in front
of the recipient as the contract lasts. For each received sub-
sidy, the recipient discards 1 S-marker.
Example: France cannot make a subsidy contract with Austria, since they
are enemies. But it can make one with Prussia. So it does, and both powers
agree on a contract for 3 turns. In each of the next 3 turns, France hands
over 1 TC of its income to Prussia (before looking at the TCs).
NEGOTIATIONS
All powers, even enemies, may negotiate in order to
achieve agreements on their behaviour. Agreements can be
made on a coordinated strategy, an armistice, the votes for
Imperial Election, a subsidy contract, etc.
Powers are al-
lowed to make deals with each other in which each promises
to perform certain actions.
All agreements are binding;
promises must be kept. To avoid slowing down the game,
players should try to keep negotiations brief and to the
point. Secret negotiations are not allowed.
Negotiations cannot result in exchanges or donations of
TCs. The only way to include TCs in negotiations is a sub-
sidy contract.
Agreements can never change an alliance, a game rule,
or any inherent game mechanic. (For instance, you cannot
agree that a general loses his ability to protect a fortress.)
Powers cannot agree on a peace treaty (except the “Annex-
ion of Silesia”).
Examples: a) The Pragmatic Army offers Austria a Subsidy Contract for 2
turns. The offer, however, requires that all Austrian generals leave Silesia
as fast as possible.
b) Prussia offers Austria that it won’t attack it for 2 turns, but demands
that Austria keeps its generals out of protecting distance from the fortresses
Neisse and Cosel.
ARENBERG
The Austrian general Arenberg has the following special
abilities (which are in addition to his normal abilities as an
Austrian general):
• He is always in supply in the Netherlands and can also
be supplied by the supply train of the Pragmatic Army.
• He may also re-enter on a Dutch major fortress.
VICTORY CONDITIONS
A major power wins immediately, ending the game, if its
pool of victory markers is empty a) at the end of any action
stage (its own or that of another power), or b) at the end of
any political stage, or c) after the imperial election.
If more than one power has an empty victory pool, award
victory to the power with an empty pool that could have
played the most additional markers from its pool if it had
them to play.
If still tied, among the tied powers, Maria
Theresa wins all ties, while Louis XV loses all ties.
If no player has emptied its victory pool after the fourth
winter, the game ends by default. Every major power totals
its four winter scores. The winner is the power with the low-
est total score. If tied, among the tied powers, Maria Theresa
wins all ties, while Louis XV loses all ties.
THE 2-PLAYER GAME
MARIA is designed to be a 3-player game. However, it can be played as a
2-player game with the following rules modiﬁcations. However, the game
does not have its full Machiavellian ﬂavour with only 2 players.
For the introductory game with 2 players, all rules are
valid, except:
• Player A plays France, Prussia, Saxony and Bavaria.
Player B plays Austria.
• The victory conditions are modiﬁed: Player A wins,
as soon as both major powers fulﬁl their 3-player-
game victory conditions (i.e. Prussia controls at least
12 fortresses in Silesia/Austria, and France controls at
least 9 fortresses in Austria).
• Player B wins if neither Prussia nor France fulﬁll their
individual victory conditions at game end (turn 9).
• In all other cases it is a tie.
For the advanced game with 2-players, all rules are valid,
except:
• Player A plays France, Prussia, Saxony and Bavaria.
Player B plays Austria and the Pragmatic Army.
• Subsidies may be given only to minor powers.
• If a player selects 2 Political Cards in one turn, he may
execute only one of them. The other one has to be dis-
carded.
• The Saxony political marker is moved one to the right
whenever France (as well as Prussia) loses a victory
point, but only due to a defeat in battle on the Bohemia
map or lack of supply on the Bohemia map.
• In the combat phase, the Pragmatic Army is not re-
stricted to making its attacks after Austria. Player B
has free choice of the order of all his attacks.
• The victory conditions are unchanged, except that all
ties are won by player B.
OPTIONAL POLITICAL RULE
With this optional rule for politics, blufﬁng will no longer be com-
pletely cost free, since a TC used to bluff will be out of the player’s
hand for one whole turn. It is recommended to play with this op-
tion.
Some rules of section 17 are modiﬁed. The political stage
is expanded by 1 phase:
1. From the political display, return face-down TCs to the
players.
2. Reveal 2 Political Cards.
3. Determine the political trump suit.
4. Major powers place TCs on the political display.
5. Determine order of inﬂuence.
6. Select Political Cards.
25.1
Return face-down TCs to the players
In this phase, players return to their hands any face-down
TCs on the political display left over from the previous turn.

25.2
Reveal 2 Political Cards
25.3
Determine the political trump suit
25.4
Place TCs on the political display
25.5
Determine order of inﬂuence
In this phase the following rule is changed:
• A TC not of the political trump suit is not returned to
the hand of the power that played it. Instead, place it
face-down on the political display. Only face-up TCs
count for determining political inﬂuence.
NOTE: These face-down ≫bluff-cards≪are returned to
the players during phase 1 of the politics stage on the
next turn.
25.6
Select Political Cards
In this phase the following 2 rules are changed:
• A major power may only select a Political Card, when
she has at least one face-up TC on the political display.
• If a major power selects a Political Card, only its face-
up TCs go to the discard pile.
• As soon as both Political Cards have been selected, all
major powers whose turn is still to come do not take
their TCs from the display back to their hand. Instead,
they ﬂip these TCs, so that they are now lying face-
down on the political display.
NOTE: These face-down cards are returned to the play-
ers during phase 1 of the politics stage on the next turn.
GAME DESIGN: Richard Siv´el
GRAPHICS COVER: Andreas T¨opfer
GRAPHICS TACTICAL CARDS: Andreas T¨opfer, Hans Baltzer
OTHER GRAPHICS: Richard Shako
HISTORICAL RESEARCH: Richard Siv´el
LAYOUT, TEXTS, TRANSLATION: Richard Shako
ENGLISH PROOFREADING: Bowen Simmons, Guy Atkinson
PLAYTESTING: Anton Telle, Steffen Schr¨oder, Thorsten Hennig, Alexan-
der Hofmann, Manfred Wichmann, Josef Gundel, Birte Wolmeyer, Sven
Gr¨unwitzky, Franziska Gilbert, Andrea Homberg, Stefan Stubenvoll,
Tatyana Shako, Louise Gilbert, Ralf Viereck, Bowen Simmons, Michael
Benkendorf, Bernd Eisenstein, and others. – Many thanks to all of you!
LITERATURE: Christopher Duffy, Friedrich der Große, Ein Soldatenleben,
Benziger 1986. Wolfgang Handrick, Die Pragmatische Armee 1741–1743,
R. Oldenburg Verlag 1991.
Ludwig Reiners, Friedrich, Das Leben des
Preußenk¨onigs, dtv, 1980. Wolfgang Venohr, Fridericus Rex, Friedrich der
Große – Portr¨at einer Doppelnatur, Gustav L¨ubbe Verlag, 1988. J.B. Weiss,
Maria Theresia und der ¨osterreichische Erbfolgekrieg, Prandel & Ewald,
Wien 1863.
The background of the cover shows the glorious attack of the Bayreuth Dragoons in
the battle of Hohenfriedberg. Pencil sketch of Andreas T¨opfer based on an lithogra-
phy of von R¨ossler..
©2009 Histogame – Knaackstr. 70 – D 10435 Berlin
All rights by histogame and the author.
If you have any rules questions, ideas or hints, please contact:
http://www.histogame.de

Design notes
Everything has two sides; but only if you conceive of
something as having three sides can you really cap-
ture the subject. (Heimito von Doderer) — After the
release of FRIEDRICH, an obvious idea for a sec-
ond game was the War of the Austrian Succes-
sion. Nothing could be easier, was my thinking
back in 2004, since I could use the same core sys-
tems of movement, supply, and combat. The only
changes needed would be for the different strate-
gic situation.
While the basic character of the Seven Years War
could be reduced to two facets – one being Prus-
sia’s desperate struggle for survival and the other
the wondrous death of the Tsarina – the War of
the Austrian Succession was a much more multi-
faceted and convoluted affair. There was a lot
of diplomacy, shifts of alliances, rapid movement
of armies between distant theatres of operations,
rapid changes in the overall strategic situation,
and – most importantly – at different times dif-
ferent powers were on the strategic defensive.
For instance, in 1743 the Austrians drove the
French from Prague, back across Germany, and
then beyond the Rhine in less than 12 months,
only to be driven back to Prague in 1744 after a
few weeks of force marching. A game not be-
ing able to portray these rapid changes of for-
tune, these dramatic ups and downs, would not
capture its theme. I also wanted a shorter game
than FRIEDRICH – despite the fact that the con-
ﬂict lasted a year longer and that much more hap-
pened on the political and strategic front! I think
what I wanted may have been the squaring of the
circle. And, indeed, within a few weeks I real-
ized that the “Nothing could be easier” was pure
blindness. Before I could ﬁnd the missing third
side in the design, years had gone by.
The ﬁrst problem was the map: How could I
unite all these theatres of the war (Flanders, Italy,
Bohemia, Silesia) on one map? Quickly I decided
to cut Italy out of the game – and with such a ra-
zor I got rid of the powers ﬁghting there (Spain,
Sardinia-Piedmont, Naples) and of all the design-
problems they brought with them as well. The
war in Italy didn’t really start to roll until 1743
anyway, and so I thought this decision was ac-
ceptable.
The next problem came immediately afterwards:
The ﬁrst prototype map was a contiguous map
of Europe. Due to the awkward spread of the
countries, 60% of the map consisted of territo-
ries that were seldom entered by anybody. To
make things even worse, these territories were in
the centre of the map, and this was really hor-
rible! You maneuvered with your pieces along
the edges and wondered all the time: Why the
heck is there such a vacuum in the centre? – Thus
I split the map in two parts, scaled them both
differently and rotated them against each other
(that’s the reason why you can switch the maps
only in the South), and voila! That played much
better. — Two additional comments: 1.) At the
back of the board you will ﬁnd a normal map
of Europe with the two maps depicted in their
normal position. 2.) Many Prussian exclaves, es-
pecially on the Flanders map, are not shown in
order to simplify the game and avoid the excep-
tions that their inclusion would have entailed.
Initially I was aiming at 3 to 4 hours as maxi-
mum duration for the game. (Now it is 5 hours.)
The question was: How to make the fast pace
of strategic changes possible in this time frame?
First, I shortened the time frame to 5 years (that
is, the game should end with Prussia dropping
out in 1745), and later, with a heavy heart, I cut
it by one more year. Most importantly, however,
it was necessary to speed up the rhythm of the
game. For that, force marches and battle victo-
ries were introduced (the latter are catalysists for
winning the game), and – for the same reason
– everything belonging to the category of delay-
ing tactics was thrown out of the system (for in-
stance, in MARIA a general does not have to stop
moving when eliminating a supply train). Deal-
ing initial hands of TCs is based on the same mo-
tivation. (By the way: These initial TCs simu-
late Prussia’s great preparedness for the war.) In
addition, the supply rules were toughened: Sup-
ply is checked now before you move your pieces,
and you cannot conquer fortresses with a face-
down general. These are real thumbscrews! Due
to the introduction of force marches campaigns
like the one in 1743/1744 are now possible in
the game. But, you cannot abuse a force march
to attack with lightning speed and you cannot
eliminate supply trains by coming from out of
nowhere. All in all, a force march corresponds
to interior line movement, and – as a side-effect –
fortresses now have an important blocking func-
tion. (By the way: Do not underestimate the 4
elector fortresses on the Flanders map, since they
are an important ﬂank protection for Bavaria!) —
With all these changes, MARIA plays very differ-
ently than FRIEDRICH. Play has a nervous qual-
ity, the situation can turn on even small events,
and rarely are any mistakes forgiven.
I also wanted to integrate:
a) Hussars (which could have been named Pan-
durs, Grenzer, or Bohemian peasants as well).
Hussars existed since the ﬁrst prototype, but for
a very long time they rarely appeared physically
on the board. Many playtesters found fault with
that, and they were right. With the current rules,
hussars are now just perfect: Annoying plagues,
which make a campaign in Austria very expen-
sive. I am sure that players will soon love or hate
the hussars – depending on whether or not they
are playing Austria!
b) Imperial election: A game about the War of the
Austrian Succession, where Bavaria cannot steal
the imperial crown from the Hapsburgs?
Un-
thinkable!
c) Political shifts in the form of disloyal allies, the
annexation of Silesia, negotiations, Saxony’s de-
fection, and Prussia’s exit and re-entry into the
war, etc. These all were big parts of the conﬂict,
and needed to be possible in the game.
Initially intended as a 4 player game,
quickly became a 3-player game, in which one
player controlled Austria and the Pragmatic
Army. However, there were some severe prob-
lems with that: a) The two powers played too
much like a single power; they did not have the
tension between them that they did historically.
b) The Prussian player was not at all interested
in the action on the Flanders map.
c) Prussia
would never make peace. Doing so meant that
the player was reduced to watching the game for
one hour. Even if it led to victory Prussia would
not do it. – If I remember correctly, it was Sven
Grünwitzky who came up with the idea of the
schizophrenic player after the ﬁrst playtest. And
this idea works perfect! It solves all the afore-
mentioned problems at one sweep, and from a
historical point of view it is even justiﬁable, since
Prussia and Great Britain – although nominally
enemies – were not at war, except in 1745, when
they were pro-forma at war for a few months.
And regarding Austria, both powers tried to
push Maria Theresa to the same decision: Let
Prussia walk away with Silesia, and ﬁght France
and only France.
Up to this point, 4 months of design had passed
by, and the game was shaping up quite well.
However, there was one basic question which I
had not answered, and to ﬁnd the answer to this
basic question I needed 4 more years, and I found
it only by a circuitous route. This basic question
was: How does a power win the game?
As mentioned before, it should be possible that
every power goes on the strategic defensive.
Of course, a power should still be able to win
the game while on defense.
I had developed
ten to ﬁfteen different sets of victory conditions.
I tested them all, and I had to reject them all.
There were rules for war-fatigue, for aborting an
offensive, for collapse, There were separate vic-
tory marker pools for both maps, victory points
for provinces, linked requirements, and on and
on.
Either a set of victory conditions did not
work at all, or it worked technically but resulted
in a synthetic and soulless construct of rules, or it
worked wonderfully in that it produced the de-
sired actions, but also a game that was boring
to death, or it had some other fatal defect. —
This process of testing and rejecting took many
years, and was interrupted by times when I just
stuffed MARIA in a broom closet, as well as by
other projects that just needed my time.
Sometimes it is amazing what happens to prob-
lems if you do not think about them. For MARIA,
it was the fermenting of a dim feeling that – al-
though the game rules were already quite com-
plex – it was simply lacking the third side. That
is, it needed the political system in order to inte-
grate Italy and the important role of Russia. For
many months I shied away from doing this since
I did not want to load the boat with even more
rules.
But, once I introduced the political sys-
tem (into which I was able to integrate Saxony’s
defection, which previously had its own clumsy
special case rules), I was stunned! Suddenly all
problems with the victory conditions were gone!
But why? Due to the simple reason that Prus-
sia now has to play very differently than in the
game without the political system.
Of course,
Prussia still can try to play without ever mak-
ing peace with Austria. But, if Saxony defects,
and Silesia is not Prussian home country, and the
2nd supply train is missing, and even the Old
Dessauer is not available, then: Goodnight, my
dear Brandenburg house of cards. Only now did
MARIA make the invasion of Silesia what it was
for Prussia: A high-risk tightrope walk, which
could have ended very differently. Another as-
pect of the political system is that negotiations
are now very common, and even subsidy con-
tracts are common in the game (before, they were
almost never made), and the game now became
much more exciting and unpredictable.
Although it was never planned, the rules for
MARIA are now very different from the rules for
FRIEDRICH.
Unfortunately they are also more
complex. Both facts are due to the very differ-
ent character of the War of the Austrian Succes-
sion. What worked for FRIEDRICH, did not work
for MARIA (and vice-versa). To help beginners
learn the game, the introductory game was de-
veloped, which is a sort-of FRIEDRICH-light with
clear roles of attacker/defender. But it is the ad-
vanced game where MARIA really shines, with
all its entanglements of politics, negotiations and
strategic campaigns.
I hope that players will
agree with me, and that MARIA will give them
many hours of tense gaming full of Macchiavel-
lian ﬂavour.
Richard Sivél, Juli 2009
tranlated by Bowen Simmons