PREPARATION 
Place Assam at the center of the market square (see the figure 
opposite). Each player receives 30 dirhams (5 coins worth 1 dirham and 
5 coins worth 5 dirhams).
For 3 players: each player gets 15 rugs of the same color.
For 4 players: each player gets 12 rugs of the same color.
The last player who stepped on a rug plays first. 
The game proceeds in a clockwise direction, with players taking turns.
RULES
OBJECT OF THE GAME
The rug market in Marrakesh Square is buzzing with anticipation! 
The best merchant will soon be crowned. Each merchant aims to have 
the highest number of visible rugs by the end of the game while also 
amassing the largest fortune. 
The winner is determined by combining the number of visible rugs with 
the amount of money held by each merchant. May the best merchant 
win!
CONTENTS
The Rug Market square (board), 60 cloth rugs (4 sets of 15), 21 coins 
worth 1 dirham, 21 coins worth 5 dirhams, Assam the market organizer 
and one wooden die. 
PLAYING THE GAME
On their turn, players perform the following three actions:
1 MOVING ASSAM
Roll the die to determine how 
many spaces Assam moves. 
Assam moves in a straight 
line in the chosen direction.
If Assam leaves the market, 
he follows the about-turn 
symbolized by the mosaics. 
Going through the mosaics 
doesn’t count as a move.
Choose 
in 
which 
direction 
Assam 
will 
move 
before 
rolling the die.
Assam can stay in its current 
orientation or turn a quarter 
to the right or left. Following 
this rule, Assam cannot turn 
around.
Move Assam
Pay other merchants if required
Lay one of their rugs
Dominique Ehrhard
Jonathan Aucomte

Existing rugs cannot be entirely covered in one go (though they can be fully covered with two separate rugs, see examples B, C, D).
5 Dirhams
B
A
C
D
3 LAYING RUGS
The player then lays one of their rugs next to the square where Assam has stopped. 
One edge of the rug must touch one of the four sides of the square (see example A).
A rug can be placed on: 
- Two empty squares
- An empty square and half a rug (no matter its color)
- Two halves of different rugs
END OF THE GAME
The game ends once the last rug is laid. Each visible half of a rug and each dirham count as one point. The player with the highest score wins. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the most dirhams wins.
TWO PLAYER RULES
Each player starts with 30 dirhams and 24 rugs of two different colors. 
Each player shuffles their rugs to form a single pile, from which they 
will draw during the game.
Follow the standard rules for 3-4 players as indicated above.
VARIANT
During each turn, players take the following actions in this order:
1. Roll the die
2. Move Assam
3. Pay the opponent if required
4. Lay one of their own rugs
5. Rotate Assam a quarter turn
In this way, each player dictates to the next the direction in which Assam 
moves.
2 PAYMENTS BETWEEN MERCHANTS
If Assam ends his move on an opposing player’s rug, the player must pay the rug’s owner. 
The amount owed is equal to the number of connected squares covered by rugs of the same color 
(including the one Assam landed on).
Note : Only squares that share an edge count; diagonal connections do not (see the figure opposite). 
No payment is due if Assam ends his move on an empty square or on one of the player’s own rugs.
If a player runs out of money, they pay what they can and are out of the game. 
Their remaining rugs are returned to the game box. Rugs already placed remain on the board and 
become neutral. Neutral rugs do not incur payments. 
WARNING! Not suitable for 
children under 3 years, because 
small parts could be swallowed.
Imported by:
Hachette Boardgames USA
2363 James St 537
Syracuse, NY 13206 
USA
Imported by:
Hachette Boardgames 
UK ltd
Carmelite House
50 Victoria Embankment
London EC4Y 0DZ
Keep this information and address 
for future reference. 11-2024