There is a lot to be done in Marrakesh!
Use your assistants to increase your inﬂ uence in the Koutoubia mosque and in the Bahia palace. Proﬁ t from the wisdom of 
the scholars, captured on valuable scrolls. Roam the souks to haggle with the merchants over precious luxury goods. Go to the 
market place Jemaa el-Fnaa with its water vendors, story tellers, snake charmers and jugglers. Find oases in the Sahara and 
navigate the Tensift river. But over all this don't forget to pay the people and provide suﬃ cient dates and most of all water!
This city in southwestern Morocco - known as "Pearl of the South" - was founded in the year 1070 AD and is one of the country's 
four royal cities. The country's name can be derived directly from the city's name Marrakesh. The historic center, the Agdal 
Gardens, and the Menara Gardens were listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site in 1985.
GENERAL OVERVIEW
l
to
r g
a e
-
t w
-

• 1 Game board
• 1 Cube tower
consisting of a tower with
two intermediate layers and
one funnel
See page 15 for 
assembly instructions!
• 1 Cube tower base
consisting of one base
and 3 walls to fold up
and 2 separate wall pieces
to be inserted
• 4 Player boards
1 in each 
• 4 Supply boards - 1 per player
• 4 Screens
1 in each player color
• 26 Pawns 
6 in each 
player color: 
 3× Assistant, 
 1× Imam's 
 student, 
 1× Sultan's 
 courtier,
 1× Fisherman
FOR EXPANSION 2:
1× Sultan (white) 
1× Imam (black) 
• 1 Fountain tile
FOR EXPANSION 2 (see page 16)
• 4 Scoring 
markers
1 in each 
• 32 City gates
2x purple, orange,
yellow, and beige
3x green, gray,
white, black,
pink, turquoise,
brown, and red
COMPONENTS
• 300 Keshis** 25 in each color 
(Derived form the title MarraKESH the wooden octagon cylinders in this game function as workers 
 
 
 
 
or goods and are called "keshis.")
**The resources and keshis are not limited. If the supply of any resource is 
spent you may use a substitute. In the rare case that the supply of all 
keshis of one color is empty, you may exchange keshis of that color 
from the player boards with keshis of another color from the supply. 
They still count as keshis of the corresponding district color.
B Note: Keshis in the rulebook and on the cardboard components are 
often depicted with icons for clarity. These icons are NOT printed on 
the wooden components.
DELUXE
components*
CLASSIC
components
*This chapter shows both the material of the DELUXE-Version as well as 
the CLASSIC-Version. From here on, only the material of the 
DELUXE-Version is used in the illustrations. The DELUXE material can 
also be purchased separately. Further information on pages 18–19.
Date picker
Scholar
Noble
Cleric
Entertainer
Fish
Guard
Caravan
Water 
vendor
Carpet
Lamp
Spices
Goods

GAME CONCEPT AND OBJECT OF THE GAME
Marrakesh is played over 3 seasons with 4 rounds each:
At the beginning of each round, you will choose which three sectors 
of your playing board you will activate this round by deploying 
your assistants there. This will also determine which keshis will 
be available this round, which are drafted by players in order to 
augment the actions in the diﬀ erent sectors (but do not determine 
which actions you take this round). One keshi matching the color 
of each district with an assistant is tossed in the tower, and all 
that come through the tower will be selected by players.
At the end of each season you must provide dinars, water, and dates 
for the inhabitants of your sectors. Also, your ﬁ shermen may grant 
you valuable bonuses.
The player who collects the most points over 3 seasons is the 
winner of the game!
• 120 Resources**
40× water 
 40× dates 
 
 40× dinars
DELUXE* CLASSIC DELUXE* CLASSIC
• 4 Scoring tiles 
"100/200"
1 in each player color
• 72 Scrolls
21× gray 21× yellow 18× pink 12× orange
 
 
reverse sides
• 25 Luxury goods
• 12 Exchange oﬃ ces
base game reverse side For EXPANSION 3 (see page 16)
• 4 Audience discs 
 reverse side (purple)
 
 
 
 For EXPANSION 4 (see page 17)
• 12 Provision tiles
 
 
 
 
• 9 Double-sided river tiles – 3× each for:
 1st season 
 2nd season 
 3rd season
• 1 Season tracker
(Stefan Feld ﬁ gure) & 
1 Round tracker 
(camel)
• 30 Oases
 
• 8 Covering tiles
 4x Oasis 4x Desert town 1 each per player
• 20 Staircase tiles
for EXPANSION 1:
(see page 16)
B Note: You may also use these tiles during the game to better 
distinguish the colors of the keshis in the supply.
• 1 Cloth bag
• 1 Rules booklet & 1 Addendum
• 12 Desert towns
 
For EXPANSION 5: 
"Desert towns" (see page 17)
 Slipper 
Tajine Dagger Oil lamp Necklace

Mosque
Palace
City gate space
SETUP
 General Components 
5) Mix the luxury goods facedown and deal them to the 
5 souk shops on the game board in 5 stacks of equal size. 
Reveal the top luxury good of each stack.
9) Each player takes in their chosen player color:
1 player board, 6 player pawns, 1 scoring marker,
1 screen, and any 1 supply board plus any 1 audience disc.
 Player components 
2) Keep the "100/200" scoring tiles next to the scoring track. 
When a player completes a full round on the scoring track, 
they take the tile in their player color and keep it next to 
their player board, "100" side up. If they complete another 
full round, the player ﬂ ips the tile to its "200" side. 
3) Sort the scrolls by their backs. Mix each type separately and 
stack the scrolls of each type facedown in 3 stacks of equal 
size on the corresponding academy on the game board. 
Reveal the top scroll of each stack. 
4) Mix the exchange oﬃ ces facedown, choose three randomly, 
then stack them on the exchange oﬃ ce space. Reveal the top 
exchange oﬃ ce.
The remaining exchange oﬃ ces are not used for this game and 
should be returned to the game box.
1) Place the game board in the center of the playing area. 
Put the cube tower base next to the game board and 
insert the cube tower in the provided slot.
10) Each player's scoring marker starts on space 10 of the scoring track.
11) Each player deploys 3 pawns on the game board:
• The ﬁ sherman on the starting space of the river track
• The imam's student on the starting space of the 
mosque stairway
• The sultan's courtier on the starting space of the 
palace stairway
12) The remaining 3 pawns are the player's assistants, for now 
kept next to the player board.
13) Mix all oases facedown. Each player draws 6 oases and places 
them facedown on the designated Sahara spaces on their player 
board without looking at them. The remaining oases are not 
used for this game and should be returned to the game box.
Madrasa
Sahara
 Oasis
Keshi space
Water vendor 
space
Date 
orchard
Medina 
with large 
watchtower space
pa
spa
k.
Scoring 
River track
y,
nd
,
,
Starting 
space of 
the river 
Personal supply 
of resources
Start-oasis
Storage spaces for 6 oases
wer space

7) Put the city gates in the cloth bag 
and mix well. Randomly draw 8 city 
gates for each workshop space
on the game board and place them 
there. 
16) Mix the provision tiles facedown and deal 3 to each player. These will be placed above 
the supply board. Each player examines all 3 tiles and decides which will be active for the 
ﬁ rst season. This one should be placed faceup and the other two kept facedown.
14) Each player puts their supply board above their player board. On the left is the personal 
supply of resources. To the right of this supply, claimed oases will be placed during the 
game, starting from the left arrow. Next, put 8 keshis in the cloth bag, one of each color 
except yellow, purple, orange and brown. Each player draws 2 keshis randomly 
(3 keshis in a game with 2 players), placing them in any order on the spaces showing a 
keshi on the oases track.
15) Each player places their audience disc on the main square on their player board in 
any orientation they like, pink side up. (See page 17 concerning the purple back side.)
8) Sort the resources (water, dates, 
dinars) by type and keshis by color 
and keep them next to the game 
board as a common supply.
17) Then, each player takes 1 water, 1 dinar, and 1 date, as well as 1 keshi each of 
all 12 colors. Players keep their keshis hidden behind their screen, whereas the 
resources remain visible for all players on each player's supply board.
18) Finally, choose a start player at random, giving them the season tracker and
the round tracker.
6) Sort the river tiles by their season 
icons and put them separately in the 
cloth bag, one season after the other. 
Randomly draw 1 tile per season. 
Place the 3 drawn tiles next to the 
game board with any side up, which 
will be the active side during the 
game. Place the river tile for the ﬁ rst 
season on the right end of the river 
track. The remaining river tiles are 
not used for this game and should 
be returned to the game box. We 
recommend the tiles with numbers 
01, 03, and 05 for your ﬁ rst game.
Mosque straircase
Souk
Storage spaces 
for goods keshis
Main Square
Audience disc
Assistant space, 
highlighted in 
Palace staircase
Starting space of palace / mosque staircase
Place provision 
tiles here

ABBBCCBBBCC 
B
C


U Select keshis & deploy assistants (p. 7)
Simultaneously, all players select 3 of the hidden keshis from behind their screen and hold 
them in their hand. Once all players have done so, they show their selection openly and 
then deploy their 3 assistants to the sectors of their player board matching the colors of 
their selected keshis. Then, one player takes all the selected keshis from all players and 
tosses them in the cube tower all at once. 
U Claim keshis & deploy them (p. 7)
After the players have sorted the keshis in the tower's base by color, they split up those 
keshis among themselves in turn order. Players take turns claiming up to 2 keshis of a 
single color at a time, placing them immediately on the corresponding sector of their 
player board. This continues until all keshis from the tower's base have been claimed and 
deployed.
AImportant: When deploying a green, pink, or brown keshi, the player immediately 
gains the deployment bonus indicated on that keshi space.
PLAYING THE GAME
The following is a general outline of how to play the game. Later on, you may refer to it to look up the most important rules and to ﬁ nd 
the corresponding rules pages.
Marrakesh is played over 3 seasons with 4 rounds each: The player holding the round counter (camel) is the start player during the 
complete round.
Each round is divided in 4 phases:
U Use your assistants (p. 8)
In turn order each player uses their 3 assistants in any order they like. 
For each assistant the player decides between one of two options:
• Take one keshi of the corresponding sector's color from the common supply and 
deploy it (gaining the deployment bonus if applicable).
• Perform that sector action.
First, the player gains 1 water if they had deployed a red water vendor in this sector 
during a previous turn.
U River bonus & end of the round (p. 13)
All players who have crossed at least the ﬁ rst rapid on the river track receive a bonus now.
Then, the start player passes the round tracker (camel) to their left neighbor; that player is 
the start player for the next round. 
After 4 rounds, players will no longer have any keshis behind 
their screen. At this point, season scoring takes place, followed by 
preparations for the next season.
After the season scoring, the player holding the season tracker 
(Stefan Feld ﬁ gure) passes it to their left neighbor, who also takes 
the round tracker (camel). That player starts the ﬁ rst round of the 
next season.
The game ends after 3 complete seasons have been played. 
Following the third season scoring a ﬁ nal scoring takes place 
during which the players may gain additional points.
The player with the most points after ﬁ nal scoring is the winner 
of this session of Marrakesh.

Simultaneously, all players select 3 of the hidden keshis from 
behind their screen and hold them in their hand. Once all players 
have done so, the selected keshis are revealed. 
In turn order each player deploys their 3 assistants onto their player 
board on the designated spaces of the sectors corresponding to the 
colors of their selected keshis. 
Each assistant space can accommodate exactly 1 assistant. 
Exception: Up to 3 assistants may be in the souk.
U Claim keshis & deploy them 
In turn order each player chooses one color and takes up to 2 
keshis of this color from the display (If there is only 1 keshi of 
the selected color, the player takes only 1). All claimed keshis 
should immediately be placed on the sector of the matching 
color of the player board. 
Special Cases:
• If a player's sector is completely ﬁ lled with keshis, they may 
not claim keshis of that color anymore. 
• If there is only 1 free space left in a player's sector but there are 
2 available keshis of that color, the player may take 1 keshi only 
and must leave the other one in the tower base. 
• If the only keshis left to claim for a player are of a color (or colors) 
of sectors they have completely ﬁ lled, that player forfeits the 
remainder of this phase.
Players continue claiming keshis this way until there are no more 
keshis left in the display. 
Usually, the number of claimed keshis will be diﬀ erent for all 
players. During their turn each player must claim at least 1 keshi 
if possible.
ROUND SEQUENCE
Each round consists of the following 4 phases, which are played in sequence:
U Select keshis & deploy assistants U Claim keshis & deploy them U Use your assistants U River bonus & end of the round
The player holding the round counter is the start player during the complete round.
U Select keshis & deploy assistants 
The red water vendor keshi acts as a "wild" and allows the 
player to deploy their assistant to any sector they like. 
After all players have deployed all their assistants, one player 
collects all selected keshis and tosses them in the cube tower all 
at once. The tower is constructed such that some keshis will get 
stuck, and perhaps some from previous rounds will be dislodged.
This means that the number and colors of the emerging keshis 
will hardly ever be the same as those of the keshis just tossed into 
the tower. 
The keshis which emerge from the tower should be sorted in the 
base by color to be selected in the next phase.
Example: Lukas has chosen the green, black, and pink keshi.
He deploys his 3 assistents to the sectors of matching color. 
Sarah (green) is the start 
player for this round, and 
she takes 2 turquoise keshis. 
Jan (blue) takes 2 green 
ones, Marie (yellow) 1 pink 
and Lukas (red) 1 gray 
keshi. 
In the second selection 
round Sarah (green) decides 
for another turquoise keshi. 
Jan (blue) takes 1 orange 
keshi, Marie (yellow) takes 
1 purple and Lukas (red) 1 
white keshi. 
In the third selection round 
only 1 brown keshi is left. 
Sarah (green) takes it, and 
the selections are ﬁ nished. 
Sarah (green) has taken 4 
keshis in total, Jan (blue) 3, 
Marie (yellow) and Lukas 
(red) have 2 each.

a) Take a new keshi
The player takes one keshi of the corresponding sector's color 
from the common supply and deploys it to a free space. When 
deplyoing a green, pink, or brown keshi, the player gains its 
deployment bonus immediately (see associated action). 
For an assistant in the souk the player may take a yellow, 
purple, or orange keshi from the common supply and 
deploy them on the corresponding space. The souk may 
contain any number of keshis of the matching colors and is 
never ﬁ lled.
If a player's sector is completely ﬁ lled with keshis, they 
may not use this option anymore. 
B Note: New keshis are always taken from the common supply.
U Use your assistants 
In turn order each player uses their 3 assistants, one after the other, in any order they like. However, 1 assistant must be done with their 
work completely before the next one can start theirs. Assistants are removed from the player board once used. For each assistant the 
player decides between 1 of 2 options:
For each ﬁ sh keshi the player's ﬁ sherman advances 1 step on 
the river track. If a players ends on a space containing another 
player's ﬁ shermen, the player's piece is placed at the end of the 
line on that space.
AImportant: Whenever the ﬁ sherman advances, the player 
may choose to pay as much water as they choose to advance 
a corresponding number of additional steps.
When a player's ﬁ sherman lands at the jetty (ﬁ nal space of the 
river track), they anchor on the free spot with the highest num-
ber and immediately gain the indicated number of points. From 
now on, that player always gains 1 point for each further step
they would advance on the river during this season. 
At the end of each round all players select one bonus from any 
space their ﬁ sherman has passed (see p. 12).
When deploying keshis of these colors, the player gains a deployment bonus immediately:
These bonuses are explained in this rulebook with the associated action.
Red keshis are water vendors. In each sector except the souk 
there is 1 water vendor space 
 where exactly 1 red keshi 
may be deployed. When a player has selected 1 or 2 red keshis, 
they may deploy them in any sector not containing a water 
vendor yet. 
b) Perform the sector action
Each sector is associated with a speciﬁ c action. More keshis in a sector make the action more powerful.
2 unoccupied spaces for water vendors
Sarah's ﬁ sherman advances 5 spaces on the river track due to having 
5 ﬁ sh keshis deployed on her player board.
She spends 2 water to advance another 2 steps.
With her ﬁ rst additional step she reaches the jetty und places her ﬁ sher-
man on the spot with 4 points. She advances 4 spaces on the scoring track 
immediately. She gains one more point for her second additional step, as 
she cannot advance any further with her ﬁ sherman.
Lukas decides to deploy new keshis to the date orchard and to the mosque. 
For the green keshi he immediately gains 1 point as a deployment bonus. 
Since there is a water vendor at his mosque he also gains 
1 water from the common supply (see center of page 6).



Main Square (Jemaa el-Fnaa)
First, the player rotates the audience disk clockwise one section. 
Then, they choose exactly 1 space containing an entertainer keshi 
and gain the indicated bonus of that space as many times as the 
number of spectators on the section pointing to that space. 
Deyployment bonus:
When deploying a pink entertainer the player gains the 
bonus shown next to the space once only.
1 water from the 
common supply
2 points
Souk
With each of their assistants at the souk the player may use the exchange office once or acquire 1 luxury good.
a) Exchange oﬃ ce:
By spending (returning to the common supply) exactly 1 yellow, 
purple, or orange keshi from their player board, the player 
receives the respective resources indicated on the exchange 
oﬃ ce from the common supply.
b) Acquire 1 luxury good:
Luxury good tiles depict a cost in yellow, purple, and orange 
keshis that must be spent (returned to the supply) in order to 
purchase the tile. Each assistant may purchase one luxury good 
only by returning the required keshis and immediately receiving 
any depicted points and resources. The purchased luxury item 
should be kept in front of the player for potential scoring. 
New luxury goods are revealed only at the end of the player's turn, 
after they have used all 3 of their assistants. Once a souk shop is 
completely empty, take the largest stack from another shop and 
put half of it (rounded down) on the empty shop.
Date orchard
For each date picker keshi the player gains 1 date from the common supply.
Deyployment bonus:
When deploying a green date picker, the player gains 
1 point immediately. 
*If the number of spectators allows to take more than one goods keshi they must all be of the same color.
Summary of bonuses on the main square:
1 step forward on 
the black mosque 
1 step forward on 
the white palace 
1 step forward on the river 
track (+ more steps by 
spending water if desired)
1 date from the common 
1 dinar from the 
common supply
1 yellow, purple 
or orange goods 
keshi from the 
common supply*
Marie returns 1 purple keshi from her player 
board to the common supply and takes 2 dates 
from the common supply.
Jan receives 4 dates from 
the common supply.
Example: Jan returns 1 orange keshi from his player board to the common 
supply to buy this luxury good (slipper). As a reward he gets 1 water from 
the common supply and gains 2 points on the scoring track. 
After rotating her 
audience disc, 
Marie decides to 
beneﬁ t from the 
bonus of the top 
pink entertainer 
keshi having 
3 spectators.
She receives 3 goods of one
color from the common 
supply and takes 3 purple 
carpets.

–
–
/
Madrasa
In the madrasa players can acquire scrolls. The top left corner of a 
scroll indicates the minimum number of gray scholars the player 
needs to have deployed in their madrasa to acquire the scroll (1, 3, 5, 
or 7). Additionally, the player must pay up to 
3 dates (as shown on the top right corner).
The player may acquire as many scrolls as the number of their 
deployed gray scholar keshis and the dates they can pay allow. 
The paid dates are returned to the supply and the scroll is placed 
in front of the player. While scholars are not spent, no scholar 
may be used to meet the requirements of more than one scroll. 
Reveal a new scroll(s) only at the end of the player's turn, after 
they have used all 3 of their assistants.
If a stack of scrolls is empty, take the largest of the two other 
stacks of that color and put the lower half of it (rounded down) on 
the empty academy. Reveal the top scroll of that stack.
Mosque and palace
For each cleric keshi (black) in the mosque, the player moves 
their pawn one space upwards on the mosque staircase. The 
same procedure applies for the palace: move your pawn 1 space for 
each noble keshi (white) when an assistant is placed in the palace.
These two staircases are both divided in 5 segments. When a pawn
crosses the threshold to a new segment, the player immediately 
receives two beneﬁ ts: 1 dinar, and a connection bonus. For the 
connection bonus, follow the line connecting the segments the 
player's pawns currently occupy on the two staircases. Any 1 of 
the depicted bonuses may be selected for a connection bonus. 
B Note: If a player's pawn (black or white) crosses more than 
1 threshold during its movement, they gain 1 dinar and the 
current line bonus for each crossing.
When a pawn arrives on the ﬁ nal space at the end of the of 
the mosque or the palace staircase, it remains there for the 
rest of the game. From now on, the player gains 
1 point for each further step they would advance on this 
track.
1 keshi of the depicted color from 
the common supply 
(to be deployed immediately, gaining 
deployment bonus if applicable)
1 keshi or 2 keshis of the same color of 
your choice from the common supply
(to be deployed immediately, gaining 
deployment bonus if applicable)
Summary of line bonuses between the mosque and palace staircases:
1 date /
1 water from 
1 step forward on the river 
track (+ more steps when 
spending water if desired)
1–4 dinars 
from the 
common 
1–7 points
Required number of grey 
scholar keshis
k
Activation timing
Cost in dates
Tile number 
(reference number)
Bonus eﬀ ect of the scroll
B
ng
Lukas has 6 gray scholar keshis on 
his player board. He may acquire 
these two scrolls, paying 3 dates. 
Lukas (red) has 2 white noble keshis on his player board, allowing him 
to advance 2 steps on the palace track. He crosses the ﬁ rst threshold and 
immediately gains 1 dinar from the common supply. Then, he looks for the 
connecting line between the segments containing his pawns and may choose 
one of the depicted bonuses (1 dinar, 1 turquoise, gray, or yellow keshi; or 
5 points).
Sarah's pawn (green) is on the top space of the palace staircase already. So, 
for 5 white noble keshis on her player board she gains 5 points instead of 
advancing.
Palace / mosque (ﬁ nal space)
4th threshold
4th segment
3rd threshold
3rd segment
2nd threshold
2nd segment
1st threshold
1st segment
Starting space

Medina
Players always deploy guard (beige) keshis to the large 
watchtower space in the medina section of their player board 
when they are ﬁ rst acquired. Later, when they perform the 
sector action for the Medina, they may buy 1 city gate from 
1 of the 4 workshops for each guard on their watchtower.
The player selects 1 city gate from a workshop of their choice 
and pays the price in dinars as shown in the top left. They then 
gain or lose points as shown in the top right immediately and 
build the gate on any unoccupied city gate space on their player 
board, deploying a guard from the watchtower next to it. That 
guard is now committed to that space.
Then, the player takes 1 keshi of the color matching the city 
gate's color from the common supply and places it next to their 
player board.
If the city gate's color matches the sector's color (also shown on 
the city gate space), the player gains 2 points immediately. 
The player may buy as many city gates as they can aﬀ ord and 
have uncommitted guards on their player board.
The keshis gained during the action should only be deployed into 
the matching section after all gates have been purchased (gaining 
deployment bonus if applicable). If any of these sectors are ﬁ lled 
completely, the keshi of that color must be returned to the common 
Just before their ﬁ rst purchase during each round, the player may pay 1 dinar to exchange the top scrolls of all three stacks of one color. 
They put each top tile at the bottom of the stack and reveal the new top tile. The player must acquire at least 1 of these new scrolls.
Instant action
• The player performs an instant action once only and immediately when acquiring that scroll. They still keep that scroll in front of them.
• End of the round and end of the season bonus actions can be used at the end of each round or season respectively.
• Permanent action enhancements vary in their abilities, but grant an enhancement for the rest of the game that may be used once 
per turn or in combination with a speciﬁ c action, depending on the scroll. 
You will ﬁ nd a detailed summary of these tiles and their associated actions in the separate addendum.
Exactly when a scroll you just bought can be used depends on the indicated activation timing:
Sahara
In the Sahara players may discover and claim oases.
Deyployment bonus = discover an oasis
Whenever a player deploys a brown caravan keshi, 
they discover the assigned oasis by revealing that 
tile.
B Note: At the end of the game, any guard keshis still on the watchtower are deployed to unoccupied city gate keshi spaces. The Medina 
sector counts as completely ﬁ lled when it contains 8 guards and 1 water vendor, irrespective of the number of city gates.
End of the round 
bonus action
End of the season 
bonus action
Permanent action 
enhancement
Example: Jan has 2 beige guard keshis on his watchtower so he can buy 
up to 2 city gates with his medina sector action.
He buys a brown one for 0 dinars (losing 3 points) and builds it in the Sahara 
sector. This is the matching color of the gate, so he gains 2 points. He gets 
1 brown caravan keshi (matching the color).
Then, he buys a pink city gate, paying 1 dinar and gaining 1 point from it. 
He places it next to the gray madrasa and gets 1 pink entertainer keshi.
He cannot buy any more city gates, so the brown and pink keshi which he 
just obtained are deployed, gaining the deployment bonuses as well.
Sarah deploys 2 brown 
caravan keshis to the 
Sahara that allow her to 
reveal the next 
2 oases. 

Water vendor
When a player uses one of their assistants in a sector containing 
a water vendor, they gain 1 water from the common supply 
immediately. This is regardless of if the player deploys a keshi 
or takes the sector action.
If a keshi is standing on the space where they place the claimed 
oasis, the player may deploy that keshi to a matching sector on 
their player board immediately. 
When covering this exchange icon, the player may return 
any 1 keshi deployed on their player board to the common 
supply and take 1 keshi of another color and deploy it 
immediately (gaining deployment bonus if applicable).
AImportant: You may NOT return a brown caravan keshi standing next 
to a discovered or claimed oasis, nor a beige guard keshi committed to 
a city gate. Also, you may NOT return any goods keshis (yellow, purple 
or orange), but you may take one of these in exchange.
When covering this icon, the player may take 1 scroll from 
the display that requires exactly 3 scholar keshis, ignoring 
this requirement and without paying 1 date.
AImportant: Paying 1 dinar to exchange the top scrolls of the triple 
group of yellow scrolls is not allowed here!
With the Sahara sector action a player may claim as many 
discovered oases as they wish and can aﬀ ord, one after the other.
Claimed oasis may earn additional points at the end of the game 
if the player meets the requirement shown on the tile. However, a 
player is only allowed to score 3 claimed oases in total.
You will ﬁ nd a detailed summary of these tiles and their re-
quirements in the separate addendum.
Discovering the start-oasis:
At the bottom-left of the Sahara is an oasis that can accommodate
2 brown caravan keshis. No oasis tile was placed here during setup, 
because this oasis had been discovered already. For keshis 
deployed here the player gains the following deployment bonuses:
Any 2 resource 
(right space)
2 points 
(left space)
The right space must be occupied before the left space can be used!
Starting from the assistant space there are two paths, each with three oases. Players may discover oases along both paths 
simultaneously, but may not skip a space.
Claim oases
By using the Sahara sector action a player may claim one of their discovered oases by paying the resources shown on the highlighted 
space next to that oasis. 
The player places the claimed oasis on a storage space in the area on the right side of their supply board. The ﬁ rst claimed oasis is placed 
on the left space, marked with a green arrow above it. The following claimed oases are placed on the next empty spaces from left to right. 
Jan uses his assistent 
deployed to the palace:
No matter whether he 
takes a new keshi or 
performs the sector 
action, he receives 
1 water from the 
common supply. 
Example: Marie deploys a keshi to the 
right space of her starting oasis. She 
receives any 2 resources as a deployment 
bonus, so she chooses 1 date and 1 dinar.
Example: First, Sarah pays 1 dinar and claims the ﬁ rst oasis on the left. 
She places that tile on the ﬁ rst storage space of her supply board, getting 
the green date picker standing there. She deploys the date picker at once, 
gaining the deployment bonus of the date orchard.
Then, she returns 1 date and 1 water to the common supply and claims the 
second oasis on the right. She places that tile on her supply board as well.

After choosing the bonus, the ﬁ sherman remains where he is. 
Before the next round starts, the start player passes the round 
tracker (camel) to their left neighbor. That player is the start player 
for the next round. 
Do not pass the season tracker (Stefan Feld ﬁ gure) at this point. 
U River bonus & end of the round 
The round ends after all players have used all 3 of their assistants. At this point the river bonus of the river track is resolved.
Each player who has crossed at least the ﬁ rst rapid with their ﬁ sherman may take 1 bonus of their choice that is shown next to one of 
the rapids they have passed already. 
 1 point
 
 3 points
1 resource of 
the player's 
choice from 
1 yellow, 
purple, 
or orange 
keshi from 
Summary of bonuses on the river track:
SEASON SCORING AND PREPARATION OF THE NEXT SEASON
1) River evaluation
The player whose ﬁ sherman is the farthest down the river track is the winner of the river evaluation, gaining a certain bonus shown on 
the tile at the river's end. 
In the third season the winner on the river track has the choice between two bonuses, with second place receiving the other bonus. In a 
two player game the second place is not rewarded with a bonus. 
After 4 rounds the players have no more keshis left behind their screens. 
That season is ﬁ nished and the players proceed to the season scoring. 
2) Providing for Citizens
Each player must pay the resources shown on their their 
revealed provision tiles. If a player cannot pay the required 
resources shown on all their provision tiles, they must pay all of 
their resources (even those that were not required in the ﬁ rst place) 
and lose all points shown on their activated provision tiles. 
A player paying all required resource does not lose any points. 
After all players have paid their required provisions, each player 
chooses one of their provision tiles that is still face down and 
ﬂ ips it. The resources shown on that tile must be paid at the end 
of the next season in addition to to those shown on the previously 
revealed tiles if the player does not want to lose points.
You will ﬁ nd a detailed summary of the river tiles in the separate addendum.
Finally, discard the current river tile and return all ﬁ shermen to the starting space of the river track.
Marie has crossed 3 rapids. She chooses a bonus from the middle rapid, 
taking 1 dinar from the common supply.
Two provision tiles are activated in the second season. Lukas could pay all 
resources required by the right tile, but he is short of 1 date and 1 dinar 
for the left one. He must return all his resources - including 2 water that 
he still has left - to the common supply and loses 8 points. 
Sarah (green) is ﬁ rst on the river 
track, and chooses the 7 points 
bonus of the river tile. 
Marie (yellow) is second and gains 
3 points. 







MAX

Preparing the 2nd and 3rd season:
1) Discard the exchange oﬃ ce tile from the game board. 
Reveal the next exchange oﬃ ce, which will be the active 
oﬃ ce for the next season.
2) Place the river tile for the next season on the end of the river 
track.
3) Again, each player takes 1 keshi of each color (12 in total) from 
the common supply and places them behind their screen.
4) Pass the season tracker (Stefan Feld ﬁ gure) to the next 
player in clockwise direction. That player takes the 
round tracker (camel) as well, no matter which player 
is holding it now. 
This concludes the preparation, and the next season starts.
END OF THE GAME AND FINAL SCORING 
1) Completely ﬁ lled sectors:
For each sector of their player board 
(except the souk) completely ﬁ lled with 
8 keshis + 1 water vendor keshi the player 
gains 10 points.
2) Oasis tiles:
Each player calculates the worth of their 
claimed oases according to their 
requirements and gains points for the 
3 oases of the highest value.
3) Remaining resources:
Each player gains points for their 
remaining resources (dinars, water, 
dates) and/or goods keshis: Add 
together all resources and goods keshis 
and divide the sum by 2, rounding down. 
After the 3rd season (including season scoring) is completed, the game ends and the ﬁ nal scoring takes place. 
Players can gain additional points now for the following:
The player with the most points is the winner of the game. 
In case of a tie for the most points the tied player leading on 
the palace staircase is the winner. 
A further tie is broken in favor of the player leading on the 
mosque staircase. If still there is no winner, the remaining tied 
players share the victory.
Example: Sarah has completely ﬁ lled 2 sectors with keshis: the river and the mosque. 
 
She gains 20 points.
She has 4 claimed oases:
• The ﬁ rst one (03) is worth 2 points for her 1 pink city gate.
• The second one (05) would give her 3 points plus 1 point for each 
 white keshi on her player board, a total of 5 points.
• The third (07) is worth 3 points plus 1 point for each turquoise keshi 
 on her player board, a total of 11 points.
• The last one (21) would give her 3 points plus 1 point for each date that 
 she returns to the common supply, a total of 9 points.
So she scores oases 05, 07 and 21 to gain 25 points in total. 
Finally, she has 
5 resources left plus 
2 goods keshis. These 
give her 3 more 
points. 

CUBE TOWER ASSEMBLY ıNSTRUCTIONS

EXPANSION MODULES
EXPANSION 1: Staircase Tiles
GAME COMPONENTS:
• 20 Staircase tiles (double-sided)
Put all staircase tiles in the cloth bag, mix well, draw one after the other with a random side up and place on a bonus space between the 
palace and mosque staircase, starting with the space on the bottom left. 
AImportant: Do NOT cover the dinar and points spaces directly next to the staircases, these bonuses remain unchanged. Also, do 
NOT cover the 2 topmost spaces ("any 2 keshis of identical color" and "any 1 keshi") nor the lowermost space ("1 step on the river 
track"). This leaves 12 spaces to be covered by staircase tiles. Return the leftover tiles to the game box. 
These staircase tiles replace the printed bonus spaces, thus providing always new combinations on the connecting lines. 
B Hint: If all players agree, staircase tiles may be selected (which tile and which side up) instead of randomized.
1 date + 1 step on the river track (+ more 
steps when spending water if desired)
1 water + 
1 step on the white palace staircase
OR
1 step on the black mosque staircase
1 dinar + 1 point
EXPANSION 3: Additional Exchange Oﬃ ces
• 6 new exchange oﬃ ces – marked by an additional pattern between the lines
Mix the additional exchange oﬃ ces and those of the base game together. 
There is no further change in setup or game play. 
B Hint: If all players agree, they may use these new exchange oﬃ ces only.
The tile shown on the right oﬀ ers 1 additional bonus besides 1 ressource:
• Sultan (white): When buying a scroll, the player 
pays 1 fewer date for each scroll.
• Imam (black): When buying a luxury good, the 
player pays any 1 goods keshi fewer. 
If the player in company of the sultan or imam is passed by another player later, that player now takes that pawn along (drawing level 
is not enough to take over the sultan/imam!). As soon as a player in company of the sultan or imam reaches the the ﬁ nal space of the 
staircase (palace/mosque), the sultan/imam is passed on to the player in second position on the respective starcase. If several players are 
tied for the second position, the pawn is placed one space directly above them. 
EXPANSION 2: Imam & Sultan
GAME COMPONENTS:
• 1 Sultan (white), 1 Imam (black)
• 1 Fountain tile
Place these two special pawns on their respective starting space of the palace and mosque staircase (the stair showing 
a small image of the sultan and the imam). Place the fountain tile on the fountain between the palace and mosque. 
Changes in GAME PLAY:
As soon as a player reaches the stair where the sultan or the imam is waiting, they place that pawn next to their own and from now on 
moves both pawns as one, when ascending the palace or mosque staircase. A player taking along one of these special pawns gains the 
following beneﬁ t (depicted on the fountain tile as a reminder), which may be used more than once during the same turn:

EXPANSION 4: Spectators
• 4 Audience discs
(reverse side)
Before the game starts, the players decide together if they want to play with the pink 
or the purple sides of the audience discs. The purple side features 1 section without 
any spectators and 1 section with 4 spectators. 
EXPANSION 5: Desert Towns
• 12 Desert towns
• 8 Covering tiles (2 per player)
Each player takes 2 covering tiles.
They place one tile (the smaller one) on the start oasis. This oasis and its associated keshi spaces are not available during this game.
They place the other covering tile (the larger one) on their supply board (the players must keep their resources on the table above the 
supply board). There are 2 cutouts which each hold 1 keshi and 1 desert town.
At the start of the game, put all desert towns in the cloth bag and mix well. Randomly draw a number of desert towns from the bag as 
shown below:
HH 3 tiles 
 
HHH 5 tiles 
HHHH 7 tiles 
Place the drawn tiles in plain view of all players next to the game board, night side up. Return the remaining desert town tiles to the 
game box.
Changes in GAME PLAY:
When discovering in the Sahara now, there is a fourth keshi space on both upper paths, leading the caravan to a far away desert town. 
If a player deploys a brown caravan keshi to such a space, they choose one of the desert towns from the display next to the game board 
and inserts it into the corresponding cutout, night side up. The player gains an immediate deployment bonus of 4 points.
AImportant: It can be worthwhile to be fast, because there are not enough desert towns for every player to get 2. Furthermore, the 
desert towns oﬀ er diﬀ erent bonuses that may not be suitable for all players. 
When claiming a desert town with a Sahara sector action, the player must pay a set of 3 goods keshis (yellow + orange + purple). They 
ﬂ ip the desert town tile to its day side (leaving it in its cutout). This desert town is claimed now and may be scored at the end of the game. 
B Note: With their Sahara sector action a player may claim discovered oasis tiles as well as desert town tiles.
Like oases, most desert towns yield points during ﬁ nal scoring if their requirements are met.
 
However, there are 3 desert towns with an immediate eﬀ ect. These are marked with a ﬂ ash icon, the same as the scrolls.
 
Resolve the eﬀ ect once when claiming such a desert town. You will ﬁ nd a detailed summary of these tiles and their requirements
 
in the separate addendum.
AImportant: Desert towns are only ﬂ ipped when claimed and are not stored with the oases on the right-hand side of the supply board.
Changes in SCORING:
Score (at most) 2 desert towns and 3 claimed oases of the highest value.
AImportant: Both keshi slots of the desert town covering tile must be occupied (in addition to all other keshi spaces) in order to 
score the Sahara as completely ﬁ lled sector.
Day side Night side
 2 Covering tiles per player
 "Oasis" 
 
 "Desert town" 

sfcc.queen-games.com

© Copyright 2021 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
General Overview
Components
Game Concept and Object of the Game
Setup
 General Components 
 
 Player components 
Playing The Game
Round Sequence
U Select keshis & deploy assistants 
U Claim keshis & deploy them 
U Use your assistants 
U River bonus & end of the round 
Season Scoring and Preparation of the Next Season
End of the Game and Final Scoring 
Cube Tower Assembly Instructions 
Expansion Modules
EXPANSION 1: Staircase Tiles
EXPANSION 2: Imam & Sultan
EXPANSION 3: Additional Exchange Oﬃ ces
EXPANSION 4: Spectators
EXPANSION 5: Desert Towns
Table of Contents & Overview
Spend resources to claim discovered oases.
 Spend dates to acquire scrolls.
Note: You must have the required 
number of scholar keshis.
Per keshi: Advance 1 step on the river track.
Spend dinars to buy city gates. You 
must be able to deploy 1 uncommitted
 guard keshi to each gate.
on the palace stairs.
Spend goods keshis to acquire 1 luxury good 
or use the exchange oﬃ ce 1 time.
Per keshi: Gain 1 date.
on the mosque stairs.
Rotate the disk 1 section. 
Select 1 keshi and gain its reward once 
 for each spectator now adjacent.
When using an assistant 
in a sector with a water 
vendor: Gain 1 water.
OVERVIEW: U USE YOUR ASSISTANTS 
 B) PERFORM THE SECTOR ACTION

SUMMARY OF ıCONS
Gain or take something
Return something to 
the common supply or 
discard
Use something
Gain [1] point
Lose [3] points
Any resource
(dinar, date, water)
Keshi (of 
the depicted 
color)
Any keshi
Any keshi
(except goods 
keshis)
Goods keshi 
(yellow, 
orange, purple)
Deploy keshi (of the 
depicted color) from 
the common supply to 
your player board
City gate (of the 
depicted color)
Any city gate
Buy city gate and 
place on your player 
board
Oasis tile
Discover oasis
Claim oasis
Claimed oasis
Any sector
Perform sector 
action
1 step on the 
river track
B Note: As a general rule, each 
time you move at least 1 step 
on the river track (no matter 
why) you may spend water to 
advance even further: 
1 water = 1 additional step.
Rapids of 
the river 
1 step on 
the palace 
1 step on 
the mosque 
1 step on the palace 
OR mosque staircase
Cross 1 threshold on 
Luxury good
Exchange oﬃ ce
River tile
Provision tile
1 spectator on the 
audience disc
1st / 2nd / 
3rd season
Final Scoring
Game round
UDNEDD
DDA
N
DD
U
NE
DD

22 v
If you buy a city gate 
from the left workshop 
for 0 dinar, you do not
lose points.
23–25 v
"date orchard" sector 
action you may decide for 
each single keshi to take 
1 date or:
1 water (23), 
1 dinar (24), 
or 1 point (25). 
26–27 v
When you advance on 
staircase, you may buy 
further steps by spending 
dates / water:
1 date = 1 step (26), 
1 water = 1 step (27).
28 x
At the start of each 
season scoring you gain 
one bonus from each 
of the rapids you have 
crossed.
29 v
"main square" sector 
action, you gain 
additional points at the 
end of the action.
The number of points depends on the number of 
spectators facing the space with 2 points. 
An entertainer keshi does not need to be 
deployed here.
Lucas gains 4 points at the end of his sector action 
"main square": 2 points for each spectator 
facing the space with 2 points (in this case there 
are 2).
SCROLLS
The scrolls have unique abilities or bonuses, explained below. For quick reference look for the number of the tile in the bottom left 
corner.
Any eﬀ ects that are essentially identical and diﬀ er only in minor details are merged in this summary.
01–21: You need to have 1 scholar & you must pay 1 date
01–12 u
You take the depicted 
keshi from the common 
deploy it according to the 
rules.
13–16 v
Each time you cross a 
threshold on the palace 
or mosque staircase, you 
gain the depicted bonus 
in addition to the dinar 
printed on the threshold.
1 water (13), 
1 date (14)
1 dinar (15), 
or 1 step on the river 
track (16).
17 v
Each time you cross a 
rapid on the river track, 
you gain the depicted 
bonus once and imme-
diately.
18 v
Each time you use the 
exchange oﬃ ce, you gain 
1 additional resource of 
your choice
(dinar, date, water).
19 u
You gain 2 water 
20 u
You gain 2 dinars 
21 u
You gain 3 dates 
22–42: You need to have 3 scholars & you must pay 1 date

43 u
You take 2 keshis of your 
supply immediately 
deploy them according to 
the rules.
44 v
When providing for 
citizens at the end of a 
season you may pay 
1 dinar:
If you do, you only have 
to spend any 1 resource
for each provision tile.
This resource does not need to be shown on the 
provision tile.
The dinar only needs to be paid once for all tiles.
Sarah pays 1 dinar. 
She needs to spend only 
1 resource of her choice 
for each of her provision 
tiles and spends 2 dates.
45 v
As of now, you pay only 
1 resource of your choice 
when you claim an oasis. 
46 v
"souk" sector action, you 
may use the exchange 
oﬃ ce several times with 
1 assistant if you can 
aﬀ ord it.
47 u
You check all sectors 
of your audience disc 
with 3 spectators and 
immediately gain 3 times 
each bonus facing these 
sectors.
Entertainer keshis do 
not need to be deployed 
there.
Jan receives 3 goods keshis of one color of his 
choice from the common supply and advances 
his imam's student on the mosque staircase 3 steps.
30 u
You take 1 keshi of your 
deploy it according to the 
rules.
31 v
As of now, there is 
1 additional spectator 
in each section of your 
audience disc.
The highlighted 
section counts as 
4 spectators now.
32 v
You pay 1 fewer dinar 
when buying a city gate.
B Note: If you buy a 
city gate for 0 dinar 
you do not get a dinar 
from the common 
33 v
As of now, you may use 
dates and water instead of 
dinar whenever you have 
to pay a cost (but not vice 
versa).
Example: Marie wants to buy a city gate from 
the right workshop and would have to pay 3 
dinars. She pays 2 dates and 1 dinar instead.
34 v
"souk" sector action, you 
may buy several luxury 
goods with 1 assistant if 
you can aﬀ ord it.
35 v
You gain 2 water for each 
water vendor instead of 
1 only.
36 v
When you buy a city 
gate, you may take 
1 keshi of your choice 
from the common supply. 
It no longer has to match 
the color of the city gate.
37 - 42 u
You take both depicted 
keshis from the common 
deploy them to the "souk" 
according to the rules.
43–60: You need to have 5 scholars & you must pay 2 dates

48 v
Each time you move on 
staircase you may move 
1 additional step.
Lucas has deployed 1 entertainer keshi to the 
main square that allows him to advance 1 step 
with his imam's student on the mosque stair-
case. He may move his imam's student 1 more 
step, 2 steps total.
49 v
Once you have reached 
the ﬁ nal space of the 
mosque staircase, you 
gain 2 points for each 
further step instead of 
1 only.
50 v
As of now, you receive 
2 points in addition to 
1 water for your water 
vendor keshi when 
performing the sector 
action.
51 v
"main square" sector 
action, you gain all 
bonuses from spaces 
facing sections with 
1 spectator at the end of 
the action. These bonuses 
are additional and no 
entertainer keshis need to 
be deployed there.
Sarah receives 1 water, 1 date, and may advance 
her sultan's courtier 1 step on the palace 
staircase.
52 v
Once you have reached 
the ﬁ nal space of the 
palace staircase, you gain 
2 points for each further 
step instead of 1 only.
53 u
You may perform a sector 
action of your choice 
54 v
Each time you deploy a 
entertainer keshi to the 
"main square," you get 
the corresponding 
deployment bonus plus 
the deployment bonuses 
of both adjacent sections. 
These bonuses are additional and no entertainer 
keshis need to be deployed there.
Example: Marie deploys 
1 entertainer keshi. Her 
bonuses are 2 points 
plus 1 water and 1 
dinar from the common 
55 u
You advance 3 steps 
on both the palace 
and mosque staircase 
immediately. You gain all 
appropriate bonuses, and 
you may choose the order 
in which you advance on 
the staircases.
56 v
Once your ﬁ sherman 
has reached the jetty 
(ﬁ nal space of the river 
track), you gain 
2 points for each further 
step instead of 1 only.
57 u
You place a water vendor 
next to the green tent in 
the "souk" and gain 3 
water from the common 
supply immediately.
From your next turn on, you get 1 water for this 
water vendor keshi (according to the rules for red 
keshis in other sectors) for each assistant placed 
in the "souk" when you perform the "souk" sector 
action (using the exchange oﬃ ce or acquiring 
1 luxury good) or take 1 new goods keshi.
58 u
You pay 1 date and take 
1 scroll from the display 
that requires exactly 7 
scholar keshis, ignoring 
this requirement.
59 u
You gain all bonuses 
from the connecting line 
between your two pawns 
on the palace and mosque 
staircases immediately.
Lucas gets 1 dinar, 3 points, 1 red keshi, and 
1 green keshi from the common supply.
60 v
Each time you get a 
bonus from rapids on 
the river track, you get 
it twice instead of once 
only.

1)
2)
61 v
You may always claim 
2 keshis of your choice 
from the tower's base 
during the "Claim keshis 
& deploy them" phase.
They can be of the same 
color or of diﬀ erent 
colors.
Exception: If only 1 keshi is left or you may not 
claim 2 because all your matching sectors are ﬁ lled 
completely, you can and may claim 1 keshi only.
Jan decides to 
claim 1 green 
and 1 pink keshi. 
Instead he could 
have claimed both 
green keshis or 
any other 
combination.
62 u
You claim 3 of your 
discovered (revealed) 
oases immediately 
without paying any costs.
B Note: You CANNOT 
claim a desert town 
with this tile!
63 v
Each time you get a 
get a connection bonus 
after crossing a threshold 
on the palace or mosque 
staircase you receive 
2 diﬀ erent bonuses 
instead of 1 only.
64 u
You take 1 keshi of your 
supply and deploy it 
according to the rules im-
mediately. Then, perform 
the sector action of that 
sector where you have 
deployed that keshi.
65 v
As of now, you perform 
the "main square" sector 
action always twice in a 
row: Rotate the audience 
disc and chose a bonus; 
rotate it a second time 
and chose a bonus again.
1) Marie rotates the audience disc and decides 
for 2 points three times.
2) She rotates the audience disc a second time 
and takes 3 water from the common supply.
66 v
Each time you buy a city 
gate you gain 2 keshis 
of the matching color 
instead of 1 only.
67 u
You take 3 keshis of your 
supply and deploy them 
according to the rules 
68 v
Each time you discover 
an oasis (ﬂ ip it to its front 
side), you score that oasis 
once immediately and in 
addition to ﬁ nal scoring.
Leave that oasis on its 
place in the Sahara face 
up ("discovered"), you 
may claim it later.
69 w
At the end of the round 
you get all bonuses from 
the rapids you have 
crossed instead of 1 only.
70 u
You gain all bonuses 
of your keshis deployed 
to the "main square" 
immediately. Multiply 
each bonus by the 
number of spectators 
facing that space.
Jan gets the following bonuses for his 4 keshis 
at the main square:
1 step on the palace staircase with his sultan's 
courtier, 3 steps on the river track, 3 dinars 
from the common supply, and 2 points.
71 u
You score one of 
your claimed oases 
immediately. That oasis 
remains claimed and 
can be scored again at 
the end of the game.
72 u
You may return any 
number of resources 
(dates, water, dinars) to 
the common supply and 
gain 2 points for eaxch 
returned resource. 
61–72: You need to have 7 scholars & you must pay 3 dates

Palace/mosque
4rst threshold
3rst threshold
2rst threshold
1rst threshold
OASES & DESERT TOWNS (EXPANSION 5)
Claimed oases (max. 3) and desert towns are scored at the end of the game and yield points. A player gains more points the more often 
they have met the requirements of each tile. To meet the requirements a player may ONLY use their own resources/components from 
their player board or personal supply.
For quick reference look for the number of the tile in the upper left corner. 
Any eﬀ ects that are basically identical and diﬀ er only in minor details are merged in this summary.
Oases
01–04
You gain the indicated number of points for each of 
your built city gates of the matching colors.
Example: Jan gains a total of 12 points for his 
1 black city gate, 3 turquoise city gates, and 2 green 
city gates on his board.
05–13
You gain 3 points plus 1 point for each keshi of the 
shown color on your board. If you have no keshis of 
that color, you gain 3 points only (3 + 0).
Sarah has 4 red 
water vendor keshis 
on her board and 
gains 7 points 
(3 + 4).
14–18
You gain the indicated number of points for each of 
your tiles with the depicted luxury good.
Example: Lucas has acquired 3 slippers during the 
game and gains 6 points.
19–21
You gain 3 points plus 1 point for each of the shown 
resource you return to the common supply when 
scoring these tiles. You may return a maximum of 
12 resources of the shown type. If you have no re-
sources of that type, you gain 3 points only (3 + 0).
Example: Marie has 5 dates at the end of the game, 
and she returns them during ﬁ nal scoring. She 
gains 8 points (3 + 5).
22–23
You gain 3 points plus 1 point for each
of your luxury goods (22)
of your scrolls (23)
If you have no luxury goods or no scrolls 
(respectively), you gain 3 points only (3 + 0).
You gain 4 points for each of your sectors with no 
more than 3 keshis, do not count the red water 
vendor keshi.
Example: Jan has 4 sectors with no more than 
3 keshis of that sector's color deployed there, so he 
gains 16 points.
You gain 4 points for each of your completely ﬁ lled 
sectors (8 keshis of that sector's color in it and 1 red 
water vendor keshi).
You gain 3 points for each of your claimed oases. 
All your claimed oases count, not only the 3 ones you 
selected for scoring.
27, 28
You gain 7 points if you have reached the 
ﬁ nal space of the mosque staircase (27)
or the palace staircase (28).
You gain 7 points if you have crossed at least 
5 thresholds on the mosque staircase and the 
palace staircase (combined).
Example: Sarah has reached the palace with her sultan's courtier (thus 
having crossed 4 thresholds) and her imam's student is in the second 
segment (thus having crossed 1 thershold). She has crossed 5 thresholds 
in total and gains 7 points. 
You gain 7 points if your ﬁ sherman has reached a spot 
at the jetty (ﬁ nal space of the river track) at the end of 
the game.

Desert towns
You gain 2 points for each of your built city gates.
You gain 2 points for each of your acquired luxury 
goods.
You gain 2 points for each of your acquired scrolls.
You gain 1 point for each step you have made on the 
palace staircase. Steps taken after you have reached 
the ﬁ nal space of a staircase do not count for this.
You gain 1 point for each 
step you have made on 
the mosque staircase. 
Steps taken after you have 
reached the ﬁ nal space of 
that staircase do not count 
for this.
Lucas' imam's student is on the ﬁ rst step of the 
4th segment, meaning he has made 11 steps – 
he gains 11 points.
You gain 1 point for every 3 keshis (no matter which 
types) on your player board.
Exception: Do not count the goods keshis (yellow, 
orange, purple)!
Example: Sarah has 39 keshis on her board 
(see left [oases 05–13] or page 14 of the rulebook). 
She gains 1 point for every 3, a total of 13 points.
You gain 1 point for each step you have made on the 
river track. Steps taken after you have reached the 
ﬁ nal space (the jetty) of the river do not count for this.
You gain 2 points for each sector containing at least 4 
keshis, including red water vendor keshis.
You gain points for each of your entertainer keshis 
on the "main square." Each entertainer is worth as 
many points as the number of spectators facing that 
entertainer. 
Marie has 3 entertainer keshis on 
her "main square": 
2, 1, and 3 spectators are facing 
them, so she gains 6 points.
The desert towns numbered 10-12 are not scored at the end of the game. When claiming these, you perform a bonus action immediately.
You may take 1 scroll 
of your choice from the 
display. You do 
not have to meet the 
requirement nor do you 
have to pay any dates.
Lucas takes the left 
tile from the second 
row and immediately 
deploys any 3 keshis. 
He does not have to 
have 7 scholars and 
does not have to pay 
3 dates. 
You may take 1 luxury 
good of your choice from 
the display. You do not 
have to pay any goods 
keshis.
Sarah takes the necklace and gains 13 points. 
She does not have to pay the 3 purple and 
2 orange keshis. 
You may take 1 city gate 
of your choice and build 
it on your board. You do 
not pay dinars for this, 
but you gain or lose 
points as usual, receive 
a keshi of the matching color, as well as 
2 additional points if you build the city gate 
on the space of the matching color. 
ANote: You must have at least 1 uncommitted 
guard keshi on your watchtower that you 
can commit to the new 
city gate. 
Example: Jan takes a white city gate from the right work-
shop. He gains 7 points and can build it on a matching 
space, gaining 2 more points. Then, he deploys 1 white 
guard keshi to the gate. 

RIVER TILES
At the end of each season the player in ﬁ rst position on the river track gains the bonus of that season's river tile. In the last season, two players 
gain a bonus (not in a game with 2 players). 
For quick reference look for the number of the tile in the bottom left corner.
 
Front side: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reverse side:
You may perform one sector action of your 
choice.
You may take 2 keshis of your choice 
deploy them according to the rules, gaining 
the deployment bonus if applicable.
The player in ﬁ rst position gains 7 points, 
the player in second position gains 3 points.
Place 3 of the leftover oasis tiles face up next 
to the game board at the start of the game. 
At the end of the ﬁ rst season, you may take 
any 1 of these oases and claim it immediately. 
You may thus end up with a total of 7 claimed oases by the end of the game, 
which is allowed: Place the 7th claimed oasis next to your supply board.
You gain 5 points.
The player in ﬁ rst position gains 6 resources 
of their choice, the player in second position 
gains 3 resources of their choice.
You take 1 water vendor keshi from the 
common supply and immediately deploy it 
according to the rules.
At the start of the last season your ﬁ sherman 
on the river track starts from the space with 
the crocodile, giving you a head start.
The player in ﬁ rst position may advance 3 
steps on the palace staircase or the mosque 
staircase; the player in second position may 
advance 1 step.
You gain 3 points.
You take 3 goods keshis (1 of each color) 
deploy them according to the rules.
1 point for each built city gate on your board.
1 point for each deployed date picker keshi on your board.
Take 1 entertainer, caravan, or guard keshi 
deploy it according to the rules.
You may claim 2 of your discovered 
(revealed) oases immediately for free.
1 date and 1 dinar for each deployed entertainer keshi on your board.
1 water and 1 date for each deployed water vendor keshi on
 
your board.
You gain 1 water, 1 dinar, and 1 date from the 
common supply.
You perform the sector action "main square" 
twice in a row. Between the two actions you 
rotate the audience disc by 1 section as usual.
1 point for every 4 deployed keshis on your 
 
board (no matter which types).
2 points for each of your acquired luxury goods.
© Copyright 2021 Queen Games, 53842 Troisdorf, Germany. All rights reserved.

Spend resources to claim discovered oases.
 Spend dates to acquire scrolls.
Note: You must have the required 
 
number of scholar keshis. 
Per keshi: Advance 1 step on the river track.
Spend dinars to buy city gates. You 
must be able to deploy 1 uncommitted
 guard keshi to each gate.
on the palace stairs.
Spend goods keshis to acquire 1 luxury good 
or use the exchange oﬃ ce 1 time.
Per keshi: Gain 1 date.
on the mosque stairs.
Rotate the disk 1 section. 
Select 1 keshi and gain its reward once 
for each spectator now adjacent.
When using an assistant in a 
sector with a water vendor:
Gain 1 water.
OVERVIEW: U USE YOUR ASSISTANTS 
 B) PERFORM THE SECTOR ACTION
Rulebook
Note: This sheet is meant to provide a quick overview of the diﬀ erent sector actions. For the full explanation of each action, please see p. 8–12 in the rulebook (also for download via the QR code above).