Another boardgame player aid by
Game: 	 MARVEL HEROES
Pub: 	
©2006 Fantasy Flight Games
Page 1: 	 Rules summary front	
Page 2: 	 Rules summary back	
v1.1
Dec 2007
Download a huge range of popular boardgame rules summaries, 
reference sheets and player aids at www.headlesshollow.com
Universal Head • Design That Works • www.universalhead.com
These sheets are intended only for the personal use of existing owners of the game for 
additional reference. Universal Head makes no claim whatsoever to the rights of the publisher 
and copyright holder, and does not benefit financially from these player aids. Artwork from the 
original game is copyrighted by the publisher and used without permission. This PDF may not 
be re-posted online, sold or used in any way except for personal use. 
For best results, print on card, laminate and trim to size.

Setup
Each player chooses a Team of four Super Heroes and 
takes his Team Reference card, his figures and Super 
Hero Reference cards, the Team’s Power-Up cards and 
one set of Combat Power tokens. 
Place the figures in the In Recovery (middle) position on 
their reference cards. 
Each player takes the Mastermind Villain card, figure 
and 3 Master Plan cards of the Nemesis of the Team of 
the player to his right. 
Each player then draws 2 cards from the Resource deck 
and 2 cards from the Villain deck (3 from each deck in 
a 2 player game).
Place decks on the board, fill the Headline and Story 
spaces with face-up cards from those decks, and place 
Threat tokens on Districts as indicated on the Headlines.
Draw or choose a Scenario. Check Game Effects and the 
Victory description.
Place the Game, Action Round, Trouble and Team 
Victory Point markers on their spaces. 
Randomly choose a starting player. No Archnemesis is 
named for the first round.
Game Round
1. Game Round Setup (skip in first round) 
	
Advance the Game Round marker.
	
Reset the Action Round marker to the first step.
	
Advance the Story track.
	
Draw new Headlines and place Threat tokens.
	
Assign Nemesis and First Player tokens.
2. Planning 
	
Receive Plot points.
	
Assign Super Hero status.
	
Heal.
	
Allies and Power-Ups.
3. Missions 
	
Five action rounds. Starting with the First Player, 
players alternate in taking an action per round. 
When a player acts he is the Hero player and can 
choose one of the following actions:
	
Movement.
	
Troubleshooting.
	
Medical treatment.
	
Story action.
	
Use a Special Ability.
1. Game Round Setup
Advance the Story track
A new Story card is placed face-up at the beginning of 
the track and the cards already on it are shifted one 
space. The card ‘pushed off’ is discarded without effect.
Draw new Headlines and place Threat tokens
Headline cards are drawn and placed to fill empty 
Headline spaces, which correspond to Districts. Threat 
tokens of the appropriate values are then placed in 
those Districts.
Assign Archnemesis and First Player tokens
The player controlling the Nemesis of the Team with 
the most Victory Points (VP) receives the Archnemesis 
token. If there is a tie, the Nemesis with the highest 
Henchmen rating wins.
The player with the fewest VP receives the First Player 
token. If there is a tie, the player with the fewer Team 
Power-Ups in play wins.
2. Planning
The position of a figure on a Super Hero reference card 
indicates that hero’s status: Ready (on the left); In 
Recovery (in the middle) and Supporting (on the right).
Players must spend Plot Points (PP) to assign heroes to 
Ready or Supporting status. Unspent PP can be kept for 
use in later rounds.
Receive Plot Points
Take all of your heroes that are on Support spaces on 
the board and all those on their reference cards (unless 
they have a Wound token).
Take PP tokens equal to this number of available 
heroes, plus your PP bonus score (1 for every 5 VP).
Assign Super Hero Status
Spend PP equal to a hero’s Level to keep him in a 
District on the board and Ready.
Spent PP equal to a hero’s Level to place an available 
hero on the Ready position of his card.
Spent 1 PP to place an available hero in the Supporting 
position of his card.
All other heroes are In Recovery and placed in the 
middle of their cards.
Heal
If a hero is wounded, leave him In Recovery and discard 
the Wound token.
Allies and Power-Ups
Spend 1 PP to play an Ally Resource card from your 
hand, and place additional PP on the card if desired. 
You may not place PP on Allies already in play.
An Ally with your Team icon is linked; you may place 
the PP you would normally spend onto the card and 
then may also place 1 additional PP as normal.
Each Team can have a maximum of 3 Ally cards in play 
at one time. One can be discarded to play a new Ally.
At any time during this phase, players may discard 3 
Story cards to purchase a Power-Up.
3. Missions
Each Mission phase is divided into five Action Rounds, 
in each of which players alternate taking actions starting 
with the First Player. A player taking actions is the Hero 
player and can choose one of the following actions:
Movement
Move One Ready Hero from his card to any District, from 
one District to another, or from a District to the Recovery 
position on his card. The hero may take with him one 
Supporting hero (only if on the Supporting position on 
his card) OR 
Move One Supporting Hero from his card to any Support 
space, from one Support space to another, or from a 
Support space to the Supporting position on his card.
Troubleshooting
Attempt to resolve a Headline in a District containing at 
least one of your Ready heroes.
Medical Treatment
Remove a Wound token from one hero in Recovery.
Story
Draw one card from the Resource deck. Then, if you 
wish, you may either:
Advance the Story Track Place a new Story card at the 
start of the track, pushing the other cards along. The 
card ‘pushed off’ is given to the player matching its 
Team icon (discarded if the Team is not in play) OR
Manipulate the Story Track Move a card belonging to 
your Team to the last position, shifting the other cards 
back to fill its original space.
Whenever you get a Story card, add 1 VP to your score. 
Use a Special Ability
Hero abilities termed Support (Action) may be used. A 
hero must be supporting to use a Support (Action) ability.
Event cards beginning with ‘Play as an action’ can be 
played as an action during an Action Round.
Troubleshooting
There are Normal Headlines and Mastermind Headlines. 
Troubleshooting a Normal Headline
1. Determine Trouble Level
Roll dice equal to the District’s Threat number. 
Dice Boosting: If any dice show a BOOST icon, roll them 
again (ignore any more BOOST icons). If any of your 
heroes or supporting heroes in the District has a skill 
shown on the Headline card, ignore all BOOST icons. 
The total of of HIT and TROUBLE icons is the Trouble 
Level and is recorded on the Trouble Track. 
2. Reduce Trouble
Reduce the Trouble Level by the appropriate 
Troubleshooting rating (Crime, Danger or Mystery) of 
a Ready hero in the district. If the Level is at 0, go to 
Headline Resolution.
3. Play Villains
All other players, beginning with the Hero player’s 
Nemesis and proceeding clockwise, take these steps: 

Draw one Villain card (in a 2-player game, draw 2).
Decide whether or not to play a Villain card. As soon as 
one is played it is the Lead Villain and this step stops. 
The current Trouble Level must be equal or higher than 
the Trouble Level Requirement on the card.
Reduce the Trouble Level by the Villain’s Trouble Cost. 
If no one plays a card go to Headline Resolution.
Play Backup Effects and Agents. The effects and 
Trouble Cost on the lower half of one or more Villain 
cards are played (no Trouble Level Requirement).
Most Wanted Villains
Each Villain on a Most Wanted space is available 
to all players during the Play Villains step of a 
Troubleshooting action, but can be played only as a 
Lead Villain. The Trouble Level Requirement of a Most 
Wanted Villain is 0, but the cost must be paid normally.
4. Combat
Resolve combat using the Combat rules.
If the Villain Wins A defeated Ready hero is placed in 
Recovery with one Wound token. Heroes on Support 
spaces stay where they are. Discard the Headline card.
Lead Villain, Backup Effect and Agent cards are 
discarded. Lead Villain cards with a Most Wanted 
icon which are placed on a Most Wanted space. If the 
spaces are full the player controlling the Nemesis of 
the defeated team decides whether to replace a card or 
discard the Villain.
If the Hero Wins Discard any KO tokens, discard the 
Lead Villain, Backup Effect and Agent cards. 
5. Headline Resolution
If there was no Lead Villain or the hero defeats him, 
take the Headline card and the number of Victory Points 
indicated. Reset the Trouble Level to 0.
Troubleshooting a Mastermind Headline
Scheming
The Hero player’s Nemesis can choose one of these 
Scheming options:
Increase the Threat The Nemesis may add his Threat 
(Crime, Danger or Mystery) to the District’s Threat.
Draw Additional Villain Cards The Nemesis may draw a 
number of additional Villain cards equal to the highest 
Level among the Ready heroes in the District.
Boost Combat The Nemesis may give the Lead Villain 
dice boosting.
Attempting Master Plans
At the start of a Troubleshooting action involving a 
Mastermind Headline, the Hero player’s Nemesis may 
attempt a Master Plan. Master Plans must be attempted 
in order (Prologue, Development then Conclusion). 
Place the Nemesis figure on the Headline card and 
show the Hero player which one of his Master Plans he 
is attempting. Once all Master Plans are completed no 
more may be attempted, though Scheming abilities may 
still be used.
If the Hero player wins a Troubleshooting action he 
scores the Headline normally, and must then choose if 
he wants to challenge the Mastermind Villain.
Any KO tokens are not discarded. Start a new battle 
versus the Mastermind, using his combat abilities and 
powers. 
Mastermind Villains may always use dice boosting. 
A number of Villain cards equal to the Henchmen 
rating of the Mastermind are drawn from the Villain 
deck and played as Backup Effects without cost.
If the Lead Villain or Mastermind Wins (Or the hero 
player chooses not to challenge) The Mastermind 
completes his Master Plan and can from now on use the 
special ability of that Master Plan card.
If the Hero Wins The Hero may put one of his Team 
Power-Up cards into play. The failed Master Plan card 
may be attempted again later (not in the current Round).
The Archnemesis
The Archnemesis can take a Scheming action and 
attempt a Master Plan when his opposing player is 
attempting to solve any Headline.
Combat
Combat Powers Each character (hero or villain) has 
1-3 Combat Powers (red, orange and yellow, each of 
which has 3 values (Attack, Defend and Outwit) from 
1-5, indicating how many dice you roll if you choose 
that Power.
Combat Special Abilties are normally used by discarding 
a card (a Resource card for heroes and a Villain card for 
Villains). Any Villain player may discard a Villain card 
to use the ability of a Lead Villain, not just the player 
controlling it.
Support (Combat) Special Abilties are used during 
combat. The hero must be in the Support space of the 
area in which the teammate is engaged in combat.
Resolving Combat
The hero player and the player who played the Lead 
Villain both take 3 Combat Power tokens of different 
colors. The hero has first Initiative. These steps are 
repeated until combat ends:
1. Choose Powers
Each player secretly chooses 1 Combat Power token and 
tokens are revealed simultaneously.
2. First Attack Phase
If a hero has a team member in a Support space of his 
area, he receives dice boosting.
The character with Initiative (the attacker) rolls dice 
equal to the Attack rating of his chosen power (if it is 0, 
skip this step) and may use special abilities.
Then his opponent (the defender) rolls dice equal to the 
Defend rating of his chosen power and may use special 
abilities.
If the defender’s Defend is 0, the attacker will score a 
KO unless the attacker doesn’t roll any HITS.
Count HIT icons rolled.
If the attacker’s number of HITS are equal to or greater 
than the defender’s, he scores 1 KO. If the defender 
now has a number of KOs equal to his KO value, he is 
defeated.
3. Second Attack Phase
As above with swapped roles.
4. Outwit Contest
The character with Initiative rolls dice equal to the 
Outwit rating of his chosen power. The player that rolls 
more HITS scores a KO on the other and gains Inititaive 
for the next combat sequence.
On a draw, no KOs are inflicted, the player who currently 
has Initiative keeps it, and another combat sequence 
is fought.
Allies, Backup Effects & Agents
To activate an Ally’s ability, discard 1 PP token on the 
Ally card or discard the card itself if it has no tokens.
To activate a Backup Effect’s ability, discard the card.
Agents abilities are in use throughout the combat; the 
cards are only discarded once the combat has ended.
Special Abilities
Abilities may not be used multiple times to affect the 
same roll or value. If an ability applies to dice ‘just 
rolled’, this includes any rerolls from dice boosting. 
Abilities affecting results are applied after rolls and 
boosting.
Abilities affecting this combat sequence must be used at 
the beginnning of the sequence before choice of Powers; 
those affecting the next sequence must be used at the 
end of a sequence.
The player with Initiative goes first if there two players 
want to use abilities at the same moment.
Multi-Character Combat
If there is more than one Ready hero in the District, 
choose which hero will fight at the beginning of each 
combat sequence. Combat does not end until the Lead 
Villain or all the ready heroes have been defeated. If one 
hero is defeated, the Villain has Initiative on the next 
sequence if the fight continues.
Winning the Game
The Scenario details the victory conditions for the game. 
If the game ends on a specific condition or Game Round, 
the player with the most Victory Points is the winner. 
If there is a tie, the tied player who scored the Scenario 
Headline is the winner. Otherwise, the tied player with 
the most Team Power-ups in play is the winner.
Special Headlines
Special Headlines may enter play as indicated on the 
Scenario card. Heroes may move onto a Special Headline 
as though it was a District, and then use another action 
to Troubleshoot it. The Special Headline has no Support 
space. 
A team Nemesis may not attempt a Master Plan, 
though he may still take a Scheming action is he is the 
Archnemesis or the Scneario has a Mastermind icon.
If the Headline is solved the game ends when the current 
Action Round is completed, otherwise it remains in play 
to be solved later.
The House of M scenario ends with a special 
confrontation with Magneto (see page 12 of the rules).