You’re invited to the Mascarade, where appearances are often deceiving.
Don the right Mask at the right moment, use its power, and amass a fortune large 
enough to win the game. The task won’t be easy; Masks will be swapped between 
players… so often that nobody can be sure who’s hiding behind which Mask!
Introduction
For your first games, we recommend playing with 8 or fewer players. 
It’s better to be experienced in the game before adding more players.
Goal
Be the first to gain 13 Coins and win the game! If a player loses all of their wealth, 
the game ends and the player with the most Coins wins!
Which Masks will you wear tonight?
Bruno Faidutti
MASCARADE

Setup
Note: During the game, you’ll often secretly manipulate cards under the table. Therefore it is 
not recommended to play this game on a transparent table.
•	 Place the Justice board     on the table.
•	 Each player takes Coins up to a total value of 6     and places them in front of themself. 
Put the remaining Coins in the bowls of the box insert that make up the Bank   .
Note: Your wealth is public information and should be visible to all players throughout the game.
•	 Prepare the Masks:
	⸰Take the Scenario sheet     that corresponds to the number of players (indicated 
before the     symbol) and place it in the middle of the table, side A faceup. Refer to 
this list to check which Masks are in play and their powers.
Note: Once you become familiar with the game, you can choose to play with side B 
of the Scenario sheets for more strategic games.
	⸰Take the Mask cards     listed for the chosen Scenario.
	⸰Shuffle the Mask cards and randomly deal one to each player, which they place 
faceup in front of them. Read the power of each player’s Mask out loud.
Note: With 4 or 5 players, place the remaining card(s) faceup in the middle 
of the table and read the power(s) out loud.
	⸰Once each player understands all of the Mask cards, turn them facedown 
(including any cards in the middle of the table).
•	 Place any remaining components aside, they will not be used in this game.
Contents
•	17 Mask cards
•	80 1-value Coins
•	24 5-value Coins
•	1 Justice board
•	1 Bank insert
•	9 Scenario sheets
•	6 player aids
•	This rulebook

Gameplay
After four initial turns, the game plays over several turns until one player has 13 Coins, 
or until a player loses their last Coin.
Initial turns
Starting with the youngest player and going clockwise, take your card and another player’s 
card (or, if applicable, a card from the middle of the table), without looking at them. 
Then, still without looking at them, hold both cards under the table and exchange 
or pretend to exchange them before returning them to their places on the table.
Only the first four players must take this initial turn. 
Then gameplay continues following the normal rules.
 
 
 
 
 

Player turn
After the initial turns, play continues clockwise and follows these rules.
On your turn, take a single action from these three options:
A. Look at your Mask 
B. Exchange your Mask 
C. Announce your Mask
Then the next player takes their turn.
A. Look at your Mask
Secretly look at the Mask card in front of you.
If you accidentally look at your Mask card when it is not your turn, you must take 
this action when it becomes your turn.
B. Exchange your Mask
Take your Mask card and another player’s Mask card, then without looking, hold 
them under the table and exchange or pretend to exchange them. Put one Mask card 
facedown in front of you and put the other card facedown in front of the player whose 
card you took.
Note: With 4 or 5 players, you can take this action with a card from the middle of the table.
C. Announce your Mask
Announcing your Mask lets you activate its power. However, if you were forced to reveal 
your Mask card during the previous player’s turn, you cannot take this action this turn.
To take this action, announce the name of the Mask you have (or think you have) in front 
of you, without revealing the card.
Then, starting with the player to your left and going clockwise, all other players may 
challenge your announcement by claiming that they also have the Mask you announced. 
These two outcomes can happen:

End of the game
The game can end in one of two ways:
•	 As soon as a player has 13 Coins, they are immediately declared the winner.
•	 As soon as a player loses their last Coin, the richest player is declared the winner.
In case of tie, all tied players share the victory.
No challenge
If no other player claims to have the announced Mask, apply its power without 
revealing your card.
Note: Bluffing is an important part of the game. You can announce that you have any 
of the Masks in play without necessarily having it in front of you. You don’t even have 
to know which Mask you have.
Example: You announce “I’m the King”. No other player claims to have the King Mask; 
you immediately apply its power, without revealing your card, and take 2 Coins 
from the Bank.
One or more challenges
If one or more other players claim to also have the announced Mask, all claiming 
players (including you) reveal their cards.
•	 The player who actually has the announced Mask immediately applies its effect.
•	 All other players who wrongfully claimed to have the announced Mask pay a fine 
of 1 Coin and place it on the Justice board.
Note: It’s possible that no players reveal the announced Mask. In this case, all claiming 
players pay a fine of 1 Coin.
Finally, all players turn their cards back facedown.

Mask powers
Empress
Take 3 Coins from the Bank.
Judge
Take all the Coins on the Justice board.
Note: If players wrongfully claimed to have the Judge Mask and 
must pay a fine of 1 Coin, they pay after the Judge’s power is used, 
so this fine is not taken by the Judge this turn.
Guru
Choose another player. This player must announce their Mask, 
then reveal their card. If it does not match the announced Mask, 
they must give you 4 Coins, then turn their card back facedown. 
Otherwise, nothing happens and they turn their card back 
facedown.
Note: If the player has fewer than 4 Coins, they must give you 
as much as they can and the game immediately ends.
Beggar
 
Starting with the player to your left then going clockwise, 
hold out your hand to each player. If they have more Coins 
than you at this moment, they must give you 1 Coin.
Patron
Take 3 Coins from the Bank. The players to your left and right 
take 1 Coin from the Bank.
Cheater
If you have 10 or more Coins, you immediately win the game.
King
Take 2 Coins from the Bank.
Fool
Take 1 Coin from the Bank. Then take Mask cards from two 
other players, without looking at them, and exchange them 
or pretend to exchange them under the table.

Widow
Take Coins from the Bank until you have exactly 10 total.
Note: If you already have 10 or more Coins when using 
the Widow’s power, this power has no effect.
Spy
Choose another player. Secretly look at both your Mask card 
and theirs. Then, exchange them or pretend to exchange them 
under the table.
Puppeteer
Choose two other players and take 1 Coin from each of them. 
The two chosen players then stand up and physically switch 
seats at the table. Their Mask cards and wealth remain 
at their original seats.
Princess
Take 2 Coins from the Bank. Then choose another player 
who must reveal their Mask card to everyone, but without looking 
at it themself.
Sorceress
You can exchange all of your wealth with another player 
of your choice.
Note: If players wrongfully claimed to have the Sorceress Mask 
and must pay a fine of 1 Coin, the fine is paid after the Sorceress’s 
power is used.
Peasant (x2)
Take 1 Coin from the Bank. However, if there are one or more 
challenges and the two Peasant Masks are revealed, then you 
and the second Peasant each take 2 Coins from the Bank. 
Thief
Take 1 Coin from the players to your left and right.
Trickster
Take 2 Coins from the richest player (excluding you). 
In case of a tie, choose just one of the richest players to take 
the 2 Coins from.

Make your own Scenarios
Once you’re familiar with the game, you can come up with different combinations 
of Masks and make your own Scenarios.
To do this, you must respect the following restrictions:
•	 The Judge Mask must be included in the game.
•	 At least a third, or even half, of the Masks must have a     symbol shown 
in the bottom-right of the card.
•	 You must include both Peasant Masks, or neither.
•	 Certain Masks require a minimum number of players to be included in the game. 
It’s important to follow this required number, found in the bottom-right of the card.
•	 In games with more than 5 players, you can choose to add one or two Mask cards 
in the middle of the table, like in 4-5 player games.
Credits
Designer: Bruno Faidutti
Illustrator: Things by Diana
Development: Cédrick Caumont & Thomas Provoost 
aka « Les Belges à Sombreros » 
and the Repos Production team 
Full credits: www.rprod.com/en/mascarade/credits
© REPOS PRODUCTION 2013. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. 
Repos Production SRL • Rue des Comédiens 22 • 1000 Brussels – Belgium 
+32 471 95 41 32 • www.rprod.com
The contents of this game may only be used for purposes of private entertainment.
PRODUCTION
REPOS