Contents
Preparation
Place the game board in the middle of the table. Place the walls, 3 dice, towers, houses, and palaces as
supplies next to the board. Shuffle the 60 Guild cards and deal 6 cards to each player as his starting
hand. Place the remaining cards as a face-down supply next to the board. Each player places his
scoring marker next to space 1 of the scoring track.
a game from Leo Colovini
tower space
boundary line
scoring track
game board
•30 wooden towers in 3 colors
•4 scoring markers
back
front
•60 guild cards
•60 wooden houses in 5 colors
•15 wooden palaces in 5 colors
•33 wooden walls
•2 house dicel
•1 tower die
wall lines
landscape space
Boundary lines and wall lines:
The boudary lines separate areas marked
with different coats-of-arms (see Guild
cards on page 6). Each boundary line is
also a wall line.

Goal
The Masons try to establish cities on the game board. The guild cards each offer different building
advantages to those who play them. Whenever a city is completed (completely enclosed by walls), it
is scored and each player may play 1 or 2 cards from his hand to enhance his score. Sometimes,
however, it is best for a player to hold back from scoring as others, playing after him could execute a
card swap to gain advantage of his play. Thus, the player who chooses the right moment to spring
into the lead will show himself to be a successful mason!
Playing the game
The players choose a starting player. He starts and play continues clockwise around the table. On a
player’s turn, he executes the following steps in the order shown below:
•Build a wall: the player takes a wall from the supply and places it on any unoccupied wall line on
the game board. 
•Roll dice: the player rolls all 3 dice. Depending on the result, he must next place 0, 1, or 2 towers as
wells as 1 or 2 houses.
•Score: if the wall placement encloses a city, players may score by playing cards. Each player draws 1
Guild card from the supply. Players in last place may swap cards.
•Turn end: the player hands the dice to the next player, signaling the end of his turn. 
NOTE! If a player rolls the dice before he places the walls, he looses 1 point (moves his marker back 1
space on the scoring track) as a penalty. The he places the wall and rolls again. A player cannot move
back past space 1 on the scoring track.
Build a wall
A wall may be placed on any unoccupied wall line. It need not be placed next to an existing wall, but
may not be placed within a completed city!
Roll dice
•Tower: the tower die determines which color of tower the player must place at an empty
tower space at an end of the wall he just placed. If both ends of the just-placed wall have empty
tower spaces, the player chooses freely from the supply which color of tower to place on the
second end of the wall. If there are no more towers of a required color, the player may choose freely
from those available in the supply. When a player places a wall between two towers, he does not roll the
tower die.
The player begins
his turn by
placing a wall
from the supply
on any
unoccupied wall
line on the board. 
Example for a
turn later in the
game: the player
places wall A.
The player rolls and places a
black tower on the lower tower space
at the end of the wall. He may choose
freely for the tower at the other and
and chooses to place a gray tower
there. 

•Houses: the two house dice determine which house colors the player must place on the
two landscape spaces next to the just-placed wall. If the player placed the wall at the edge of
the board, he still rolls 2 dice, giving him two choices for the house placement in the single
landscape space. When the player rolls a “?”, he has free choice of house color for that die. If the
house color required is not available, the player may choose the color freely from those available.
•Palaces: Whenever a city is completed, for each set of 2 houses of the same color, the player
replaces the 2 houses with a palace of the same color, returning the houses to the supply. This is done
before the city is scored. If there are no more palaces of the required color in the supply, the houses
remain.
Score
At this point in the player’s turn, if his wall placement completed a city (completely enclosed one or
more landscape spaces in walls), all players may score by playing cards (see page 4).
There follows more information on completed and connected cities.
3 examples of completed cities:
Note: after a city is completed, it cannot be divided. When a completed city is comprised of several
landscape spaces, players can reorganize the houses in the city to make scoring easier.
Left: the player rolls and and
places a red house on the landscape space
on the right side of the wall. As the second
die is “?”, he may choose freely the color of
the house for the other side and places
there a green house. Right: as the player
placed the wall at the edge of the board, he
places only 1 house.
The player places a wall, completing a
city. He then placed a red house on
that landscape space (he rolled a red
house die). As there are 2 red houses in
the completed city, the player replaces
the 2 houses with a red palace. 
The houses for this city
were arranged by landscape
space for easy of scoring.

Whenever the just completed city borders directly (has at least 1 common wall) to a previously
completed city, the player may connect one of any such bordered cities to the one just completed. To
do so, the player removes all walls the two cities have in common, returning them to the supply. The
result is a larger city with the outer walls of the two previous cities. A player may not connect the
new city to two or more previously completed cities.
Note: When a city is completed, remove any towers and walls completely within the city and return
them to the supply. 
Now the players may score: beginning with the player who placed the wall completing the city and
continuing in clockwise order, each player must place 1 or 2 cards from his hand on the table. Each
player scores as he places cards. He then discards the cards face-up on the discard stack (next to the
supply) and draws 1 card from the supply, adding it to his hand. This means that when a player plays
2 cards, he reduces his hand size. 
Instead, a player may discard 1 card from his hand, scoring no points, but draws 2 cards from the
supply, adding them to his hand. Thus, a player increases his hand size.
When the supply is exhausted, shuffle the discard stack and place it face-down as the new supply.
Please see the scoring example on page 5. See the descriptions of the Guild cards on page 6. 
When all players have scored (or chosen not to) and drawn cards, the player whose scoring marker is
in last place on the scoring track may discard as many hand cards as he chooses and draw
replacement cards from the supply. He chooses the cards to discard first, then discards them, then
draws the replacements. If several players (even all) are tied for last place, all these players may choose
to replace their hand cards (beginning with the active player and continuing clockwise).
Turn end
The player ends his turn by handing the dice to his left neighbor.
The player places wall A and complete city 1. He
has now 3 options: 
•He can connect cities 1 and 2 by removing
walls B and C. 
•He can connect cities 1 und 3 by removing
wall D.
•He can leave city 1 unconnected to either city
2 or3, leaving all walss as is. 
For the sake of clarity, the houses, palaces, and
towers are removed for the example!
B
B
C
D
Starting with the situation on
the left, the player places a
wall to complete the city. He
removes wall A and tower B
from the city (see right) and
puts them back in the supply. 
Both yellow and green are ties for last place on the scoring track.
Each may discard cards from his hand and draw replacements from
the supply. 

Scoring example
Player A places a wall that completes city X and scoring follows for all players. 
Game end
As soon as the last wall, the last tower, the last palace, or the last house is placed on the game board,
the game ends.
If the placement of the last wall completes a city, the players score as normal.
If no city is completed with the placement of the last piece of a kind (ending the game), each player
may choose an already completed city, play 1 or 2 cards, and score. Cards played for scoring need not
refer to the completed city chosen.
The player who has the most points is the winner!. If players tie with the most points, the player
among them with the most cards left in his hand wins! If there is still a tie, those tied rejoice in their
shared victory! 
X
You may compare the following Guild cards with their desciptions on page 6!
Player D plays these 2 cards:
Player C plays these 2 cards: 
Player A plays these 2 cards for
scoring:
Player B plays only 1 card:
The just-completed city
has 7 landscape spaces. 
A scores 9 points.
The jut-completed city
(X) has 7 towers. 
D scores 7 points.
There are 7 houses in der
region with the pictured
coat of arms.
D scores 7 points. 
There are 5 towers on
the game board not part
of completed cities and
standing on the shore.
A scores 10 points.
There are 6 walls on the
game board not part of
completed cities. 
B scores 6 points. 
There are now 4 completed
cities on the game board.
C scores 4 points. 
There are 6 rose houses on
the game board not in
completed cities. 
C scores 6 points.

The Guild cards
The following Guild cards refer only to the just-closed city:
The following Guild cards refer to houses, towers, and walls on the game board, but not in any
completed city (also not a part of any closed city):
This card belongs 
to neither of the 
above two groups:
If the completed city has
1, 2, or 3 landscape
space, the player scores
6, 7, or 8 points. Or, if
the completed city has 7
or more spaces, the
player scores 9 points.
For each wall, the
player scores 1 point.
For each white or black or
gray tower in the just-
completed city, the player
scores 2 points.
completed city, the
For each white
or gray or black
tower, the
player scores 2
For each tower that
stands on the shore, the
player scores 2 points. For
all other towers, the
player scores no points.
For each tower, the player
scores 1 point. 
house in the
indicated
region, the
For each palace in the
just-completed city of
the indicated color,
the player scores 3.
For each house in this
color, the player
scores 1 point.
house in the
indicated
color, the
player scores
1 point.
For each palace in the just-
completed city, the player
scores 1 point. For each
house, the player scores no
For each tower
in the just-
completed city,
regardless of
color, the
If the just-closed city has
houses and palaces of 2 or 3
different colors, the player
scores 4 points. If the city has
houses and palaces of 4 or 5
colors, the player scores 7
© 2006 Hans im Glück Verlags-GmbH
If you have comments, questions, or suggestions,
please write us at 
RioGames@aol.com or 
Rio Grande Games 
PO Box 45715, Rio Rancho, NM 87174
The author and publisher thanks the following for their help playtesting
the game: Giuseppe Baù, Fabrizio Berger, Giuseppe Borziello, Marina
Canciani, Alessandro Colovini, Federico Colovini, Dario De Toffoli, Giulia
Franceschini, Stefano Mondini, Karl-Heinz Schmiel, Lucio Spampatti,
Massimo Spampatti, Massimo Tonizzo, Hannes Wildner, Alex Weiß, Dario
Zaccariotto, Stefania Zambenedetti, Gregor Abraham and especially Dieter
Hornung.