The MASTER MECH-ANIC:
Tutorial
BANDLE CITY PUBLIC LIBRARY

WELCOME TO MECHS VS MINIONS
MECHS vs MINIONS™ is a cooperative game where players program and pilot mechanical suits (Mechs) into battle!
You’ll play as one of four Yordles, each with unique Mechs, personalities, and unlockable abilities.
Rumble, the headmaster of this school, will help (in his own wacky way) to guide you along!
Heimerdinger
the Revered Inventor
Corki
the Daring Bombardier
Ziggs
the Hexsplosives Expert
Tristana
the Yordle Gunner
Rumble
the Mechanized Menace
Dean & Headmaster
Questionable Decision-maker
All right, my students. Great job unboxing your basic bots. But! As you know, 
any yahoo can weld some metal arms on to an engine and call it a Mech. 
The real artistry is in programming them to obey your commands! I’ll set up 
these Crystal Shards as targets so we can put these Mechs to a proper test!
Roger Rumble, I’m all spooled up!
A most perspicacious course of action!
Locked, loaded, and ready to rocket!
My Mech looks like a bomb and is one!
See also: Yordles

CORE MECH-ANICS
Each Yordle also has a special Command Line that matches their Mech. Think of this as your Mech’s cockpit!
YORDLE IN THE MACHINE
At ﬁrst your turns and Mechs will be very simple—bonking into walls and spinning in circles, shooting ﬂame at no one! 
But don’t worry! After
several turns of drawing and programming Command Cards, you’ll build a complex Command
Line
Li
 and your Mech will dish out tons of damage!
AN EVER-EVOLVING ADVENTURE
• Your team’s epic mechanized adventure will be broken into 10 Missions.
• Each Mission will have unique setups and rules, and present increasingly-difﬁcult challenges!
• Completing a Mission unlocks new abilities and powerful Schematics to level up your Mechs!
• In these ways, no two games of MECHS vs MINIONS™ will ever be the same!
g
Each turn you’ll draw Command Cards, which are bits of programming that make your Mech Move, Turn and Attack.
You’ll then place (or program) these Command Cards into one of the 6 slots
slots on your 
on you Command Line.
Finally, you’ll execute your Mech’s program in order from slots 1 to 6 and move your Mech around the Game Board!
Tristana’s Mech
Typical Command Line after 
yp
f
several turns
Alright! Let’s get started with a quick and simple tutorial!
Move Card
Turn Card
Attack Card
Tristana’s Command Line
Slots
(6 Total)
Se ala so:
so: Me
Mechs
chs

Red
Yellow
Blue
Green
TUTORIAL SETUP
TUTORIAL OBJECTIVE: Destroy all four Crystal Shards!
Let’s set up boards, cards and pieces for this Tutorial and learn how to accomplish your objective!
If a rule or game piece is not explicitly called out, put it aside and ignore it!
Alright, looks like everyone is in their Mechs, I’ll set up some targets to blast to bits!
• All players identify their favorite Yordle and locate their special Command Line and Mech.
• Place the character-speciﬁc Command Lines in front of each corresponding Player.
• Locate the speciﬁc Map Tile pictured above and place it in the middle.
• Locate the Crystal Compass and orient it to the Map Tile and table as shown (important!)
• Locate the Command Card Deck. Shufﬂe and place anywhere on the table.
• Place each character-speciﬁc 
Mech on any Mech starting space, facing any direction.
• Locate the School piece and place it on top of the Map Tile as shown.
• Place four Crystal Shards within the School as in the diagram. 
• Locate the Rune Die and Numbered Die so we can get rolling!
Command Lines
nd Lines
Crystal Compass
Map Tile
Mech Starting Spaces
Rune & Number Dice
The School
Crystal Shards

PLAYER PHASE
Alright, we’re ready to play! Every
Round starts with the Player Phase.
The Player Phase is broken into three main actions.
When complete, start back at the top at #1!
FIRST PLAYER GOES FIRST
Every Round the First Player changes. 
For this ﬁrst Round only, let’s roll the Rune Die to ﬁgure out who the First Player is. 
The Rune Die has colored Runes that match the colors on the Crystal Compass.
Assign a unique color to each player that most closely matches how you are seated.
Roll the Rune Die. The player who is most closely seated to the rolled color is the First
Player! Put Zhonya’s Minuteglass in front of that player to denote they are ﬁrst.
NOTE: Every future Round, rotate First Player to the next player clockwise!
1. Draft Command Cards
• The First Player deals 5 Command Cards faceup on the table and then picks one card. 
• Continue clockwise with each player picking one card until four cards have been picked.
• Discard the remaining cards!
• If your team has four players, this will result in each player having one Command Card.
• If your team has fewer players, players may end up with multiple Command Cards!
Rune Die
Crystal Compass
×5
DRAFT COMMAND CARDS
EXECUTE COMMAND LINES
(move Mechs)
PLAY COMMAND CARDS
(to Command Lines)
Repeat!
Se
alalso:
so: Ro
Ro
Ro
R und
un s
Zhonya’s Minuteglass
Zhonya s Min

2. Playing Command Cards to Command Lines
3. Execute Command Lines
• All players now choose where on their Command Lines to ‘slot’ their Command Card(s).
• All players slot at the same time.
• Slot all cards! Cards cannot be saved for later.
• Once ‘slotted’, cards are ﬁxed in place! They stay on the Command Line and in their slot.
• Starting with the First Player, execute your entire Command Line in order from slot 1 through slot 6.
• Skip empty slots, but you must follow directions on every card.
• Move and Turn your Mech ﬁgure on the game board (Turns can be in either direction).
• The
 symbol is the damage symbol. (Read as: “Do Damage”)
• When the First Player is done, the next player clockwise executes their Command Line.
A master Mech-Programmer doesn’t slot in the ﬁrst slot they see! Leave space for future Commands!
Example: Tristana programming a Blaze Card into slot #2.
Example: Tristana programming
In this example: 
I
• Skip empty slot 1
• Blaze moves Mech forward 1 space
• Blaze shoots ﬂame at nobody
• Skip empty slots 3-6
Yep, it’s that simple!
WAIT, BUT WHAT IF...?!
• Mechs cannot move off or be pushed off the board.
• Mechs push other Mechs if they are in the way, provided 
there is space behind the pushed Mech.
there is space behind the pushed Mech.
• Mechs ignore other Mech’s attacks!
Crystal Shard Interaction
Crystal Shards are very fragile and will shatter upon taking 1 damage.
(Look for the
damage symbol on
Command Cards)s
Crystal Shards will also break if a Mech stomps on them (moves into the same space).
THE MASTER MEC
ECH-ANIC
ee also:
o: Pu
Push

Once all players have executed their Command Lines, the Player Phase is over. Well Done!
HOW TO PROGRAM MULTIPLE COMMAND CARDS
There are 4 elements of Command Cards, each represented by a unique color: Fire, Electric, Metal and 
 
Computery.
Stacking Command Cards
Command Cards of the same element can be
e slot!
stacked on top of each other in the same
The new card must be placed on top of the existing slotted card(s). (not beneath!)
This top card is the active Command Card.
The
The Power
Power of this 
of this top card
top card is the
is the total number of cards in that stack.
total number of cards in that stack
(Each Command Card has instructions for each Power level.)
Each slot can have a maximum stack of three cards.
If you play a card on a max-size (3) stack, the bottom card must be discarded!
Override a Command
You may place a card of a different element onto an already-programmed slot, but all
previously-placed cards in that slot must be discarded.
RINSE, RUMBLE, REPEAT!
Time for a new Round and Player Phase, starting at Step 1: Draft Command Cards!
(Remember: the next player clockwise is the new
(Remember: the next player clockwise is the new ‘First Player’
‘First Player’!)!)
F re
Fire
re Move Card
3-power 
Blaze Stack
ectr
Electric
ctrtric Move Card
Meta
Me
Met
eta
tal Move Card
 
Computery
Co
Comput
ute y
tery Move Card
Do not turn the page until all Crystal Shards are destroyed!
TUTORIAL OBJECTIVE: Destroy all four Crystal Shards!
Don’t forget, your team has an objective to complete!
Keep playing new Rounds until you’ve accomplished your objective.

KABOOM!
INCOMING DAMAGE!
OH CRAP! Who knew that highly-volatile energy crystals would explode? That escalated quickly.
Don’t worry about the rest of the Player Phase. Let’s deal with this explosion.
For this Tutorial, we’ll add two new concepts: Taking Damage and Minions!
Escalation!
Missions may include one or more moments when the conditions and rules change.
Typically, a Mission will escalate in difﬁculty and complexity.
Escalations are triggered by speciﬁc player actions or at a certain time in the Mission.
Read escalation rules carefully before you start and adjust your strategy accordingly!
g y
g y
THE DAMAGE DECK
Damage taken is represented by Damage Cards drawn from the Damage Deck.
Damage can make your Mech harder to control and your objective more difﬁcult!
But—don’t worry. You cannot die!
Locate and shufﬂe the Damage Deck. Place anywhere on the table.
EXPLODING CRYSTAL SHARDS!
• Starting with the current First Player, draw 1 Damage Card and follow instructions.
• Do not move on to the next player until you’ve resolved that card.
• In order, every player must draw and execute 1 Damage Card.
TYPES OF DAMAGE CARDS
Damage Deck
D
D
k
Glitch Damage Card
System Damage Card
Slot Damage Card
Glitch Damage Cards apply their effect immediately and are then discarded.
System Damage Cards have on-going effects. Place these near your Command Line to keep track of them!
NOTE: Slot Damage to your Command Line prevents programming in those slots.
(Command Cards cannot be placed on Damaged slots!)
Slot Damage Cards disable
Slot Damage Cards d
Slot Damage Cards d
 a slot in your Command Line.
• First, execute the instructions on the Damage Card.
• Next roll a Number Die.
• Place the Damage Card on top of any Command Cards in the slot that matches the Number Die.
• If the slot is already damaged, replace the old damage with the new damage.
• Whenever you next execute your Command Line, execute the Damage Card as if it was a Command Card.
THE MA
STER M
R
ECH-ANIC
See also: Damag
mag
ma e

MINION PHASE
M
Minions have their own phase that follows after Player Phase!
Minions have their own phase that follows after Player Phase!
M
NEW TUTORIAL OBJECTIVE: Eliminate All Minions
Let’s move right into a Minion Phase.
Minion Figures
DRAFT COMMAND CARDS
PLAY COMMAND CARDS
(to command lines)
SPAWN NEW MINIONS
MINIONS ATTACK
(do damage to Mechs)
EXECUTE COMMAND LINES
(move Mechs)
MINION MOVEMENT
First, place example Minions so we can learn Minion Phase.
• Locate the Minion ﬁgures.
• Place a
 Minion on each designated space in the diagram.
• Minions can only spawn on empty spaces. If a Mech, Minion, or other 
obstacle is in the way, skip spawning that Minion.
NOTE: There’s no gameplay difference between each Minion ﬁgure.
PLAYER PHASE
A FULL ROUND
MINION PHASE
Repeat from Step 1
HE
THE MA
STER MECH-AN
AN
-ANIC
See also:
o: Mi
Minions

Alright, let’s execute a Minion Phase to see how they (mis)behave!
That’s it! 
That’s it! Minion Phase
Minion Phase is complete.
is complete Well Done!
Well Done!
MINION MOVEMENT
 SPAWN NEW MINIONS
O S
 MINIONS ATTACK
Minions behave differently in each Mission.
However, Minions can never move into an occupied space or move off the board.
Minions cannot push Mechs.
For this Tutorial
• Roll the Rune Die.
•
ll
Move all 
i i
Minions 1 space i
h
di
di
i
h
 in the corresponding direction on the C l
C
Color Compass.
For this Tutorial
• DO NOT spawn new Minions. (Skip this step)
• We’ll use the example Minions only
We ll use the example Minions only.
In this example: 
(Rune Die ended up red) )
• Many Minions move upwards
• Some Minions are blocked by Mechs
• Some Minions are at end of the board.
Yep, it’s that simple!
Rune Space
p
Minion is adjacent 
to the red spaces
 Minions spawn in different ways in each Mission and often on Rune Spaces.
Minions do damage by way of Damage Cards drawn from the Damage Deck.
Minions do 1 damage to adjacent Mechs.
Minions are considered adjacent if their space shares a side with the target space.
Minions are not adjacent if they are in a space that is diagonal to the target space.
t
Damage Incoming!
• So, a Mech takes one damage per adjacent Minion.
• Starting with the First Player, draw a Damage Card for each damage taken.
• Follow the instructions on each card before moving on to the next Damage Card.
• Only move on to the next player after all Damage Cards have been processed.
(A player’s Damage Card can affect whether the next player takes damage or not!)

TUTORIAL OBJECTIVE: Eliminate All Minions
Let’s ﬁnish this Tutorial with a bang!
ﬁ
g
DAMAGE and STOMP THOSE MINIONS!
Minions are very fragile, and will die upon taking 1 damage.
(Look for the
Damage symbol on
Command Cards).
s
Minions will also die if a Mech stomps on them (moves into the same space).
Keep playing Full Rounds (1-6) until you’ve 
accomplished your objective.
NEW ABILITY: REPAIR & REPROGRAM
Here’s a new Command Card ability to deal with all that damage!
bili
i h
ll h
During Draft, Command Cards that you pick can be immediately scrapped instead of programmed.
You may only scrap cards from a Draft. Command Cards that are already slotted cannot be scrapped.
Scrapping Fire or Metal cards allows you to Repair Damage:
• Discard the scrapped card and any 1 Damage Card. 
• Any revealed Command Card(s) below are re-enabled!
Scrapping Electric or Computery cards allows you to Reprogram your Command Line.
• Discard the scrapped card.
• Swap the content of any two undamaged slots.
Hrm... I think I may have found the problem...
CONGRATULATIONS!
Once all Minions are slain, the Tutorial is Complete!
Excellent job, team! You now have a strong foundation of understanding with which to
undertake future Missions.
However, there’s so much more in store! You’ll face real challenges, crazy objectives
and unlock new features and abilities each new Mission!
In fact, you might have been asking:
‘What’s this nifty Gear Tracker? What’s Overdrive?’
So let’s start our ﬁrst Mission! Find and open the “Operation Short Fuse” envelope!
R M
See also: Missions