~be jf antasp ~rtp 
~~1L~~ 
Jff(tcro®ame 3 
$2.95 

I. INTRODUCTIO 
rlavius Marcellus, youngest centurion of the Legion, was angry. 
They had been in this forest for three days. The German barbarians 
weren't showing themselves, except to pick off an occasional scout. 
And now Honorius was overdue from sentry duty. If that old fool 
was dozing off again, there'd be trouble. 
As he stepped into the little glade, rlavius saw movement at the 
other end. 1-lonorius? No' He sensed, rather than saw, the shaggy 
clothing -
and the ready bow. His soldier's reOe'\es launched him 
into a charge. Burdened as he was by helmet and greaves, he could 
probably get that barbarian before ... 
An arrow snapped. flavius felt pain, but not much; thank the 
Gods for his armor. lie moved in, weaving to spoil the archer's aim. 
A second arrow missed. As l"lavius neared , the barbarian moved to 
put his back to a tree. His third arrow went off as the Roman 
swung his sword. It struck, but the armor stopped it. F!avius' own 
swing went wild, but hi opponent was forced to abandon his bow. 
Now the German tribesman had come up with an enormous 
broadsword, and the two were trading hJcks. Slowed by his armor 
and shield, Flavius despaired of striking his agile opponent. Never-
theless, he did , wounding the barbarian badly. 
The bleeding German tried to sidestep, but rlavius cut him off. 
Somehow, the tribesma n's desperate stroke hit home. Glancing off 
the shield and through armor, the broadsword bit into Flavius' 
side. Giddy from the hock, he abandoned the attack for a few 
seconds, content to parry and wait. The swords clashed and sparked. 
Then, suddenly, it ended. rlavius' shortsword went under the 
German's wild slash and bit deeply. The unarmorcd savage staggered 
back; Flavius followed quickly and struck again. The barbarian 
collapsed, either dead or too badly wounded to stand. rlavius was 
hurt , but we!! able to walk. In the bushes he saw what was left of 
Honorius -
but he was all right. He had revenge for his man ... and 
maybe a prisoner. He bent over the savage ... 
MELEE is a game of man-to-man combat with archaic weapons. 
It can be u ed to simulate combat between single opponents or 
small groups in any period. 
Players create figures and send them into combat against a var-
iety of opponent . Selection of weapons and armor, the strength 
and dexterity of the fighters, and the tactics the players choose wi!! 
combine to tell which figures will survive. Successful fighters in-
crease their strength and dexterity by gaining experience; losers die. 
The narrative above was taken from an actual game. The COM-
BAT EXAMPLE (page 20) takes the same fight and shows, using 
the Mclee rules and dice rolls. how rlavius bested his adversary. 
MELEE can also be used as a tactical aid to the various fantasy 
role-playing games. Players will find that the Melce system meshes 
easily with most rule , allowing tactical combat to be worked out in 
a logical manner. The Mclee system lets ga111emasters regularize 
movement and attacks on a ma!! scale, taking one of the bigge t 
headaches out of fantasy ga111ing. 
MELEE is basically a two-player game, but solitaire and multi-
player games are possible. Each player may control any number of 
figures; the only limit to the possible scenarios is your imagination. 
~bt jf antagp ~rip 
ftt~JL~~ 
Man-to-Man Combat with Archaic Weapons 
Game design by Steve Jackson 
fllustrated by Liz Danforth and Pat Hidy 
Published by Metagaming 
Copyright© 1977 by Steve Jackson 
Credit for this game must be shared (in general) with everyone 
who has ever designed or played a fantasy game, written about other 
and stranger days, or simply dreamed ... and (specifically) with a 
number of excellent pla~ testers -
namely Howard Thompson, 
Robert Taylor, Ben Ostrander, Kenneth Schultz, Robert Schultz, 
Patrick McLaughlin, Ed Hack, Jay Rudin, Michael Sienkiewicz, 
Richard Boriskie, Buell Jannuzi, and Drew Pritsker. 

RULES INDEX 
I. INTRODUCTION .. inside front 
II. COMPONENTS . . . . . . 
Ill. CREATING A FIGURE. 
.5 
Strength . . . . . . . . . . 
Dexterity. . . . . . . . . . 
IV. TURN SEQUENCING AND 
OPTIONS . . . 
.6 
List of Options 
. 7 
V. MOVEMENT. 
. 8 
Shifting. . . . 
. 8 
VI. FACING. . . 
. 9 
VII. ATTACKS. 
. 9 
Rolling for a Hit. 
. 10 
DX Adjustments 
. 10 
Rolling for Damage. 
Armor and Shields . 
Pole Weapons . . . . 
The Left-Hand Dagger 
Shield-Rush Attacks . 
. 12 
Weapon Table . 
. 13 
Thrown Weapons . 
. 14 
Missile Weapons. . 
. 14 
Hitting Your Friends. 
. 15 
Hand-to-Hand Combat . 
. 16 
Multiple HTH Combat . 
. 17 
Disengaging . . . . . . . 
. 17 
Disengaging from HTH 
Combat. . . . . . . . 
Defending and Dodging 
Forcing Retreat . . . 
Reactions to Injury. . . 
Dropped Weapons. . . . 
VIII. NONHUMAN FIGURES 19 
Monsters and Beasts .... 19 
Fantasy Fighters . . . 
. 19 
IX. EXPERIENCE . . . . 
. 20 
X. COMBAT EXAMPLE . 
. 20 
II. COMPONENTS 
This MELEE game should contain the fo llow ing component s: 
(I) This rule booklet. 
(2) One 81/," x 14" arena map, divided into hexagons ("hexes'") 
to govern movement, and larger black-bordered "megahexes" to 
govern missile weapon fire. 
(3) One counter sheet, which may be cut apart into 68 counters 
representing men, animals, monsters, and dropped weapons. 
You will also need pencils, dice, scratch paper, and a straight-
edge. Miniature figures are not necessary, but add interest. 
III. CREATING A FIG RE 
MELEE is a ga me of man-to-man combat , in which one of the 
most important factors is the ability of the individual fighters. Each 
counter in Mclee represents a "figure" with it own capabilities, de-
termined by the player before the game begins. A fighter's basic 
attributes arc Strength (ST) and Dexterity (DX). 
When a figure is first created, the player determines its ST and 
DX as follows: A human figure starts with 8 ST, 8 DX, and 8 extra 
points to be allotted as the player chooses. Thus. each figure begins 
with a total of 24 points -
13 to ST and 11 to DX, or any other 
combinat ion adding to 24. 
either ST nor DX may begin at less 
than 8 for a human figure. (Anim<1ls and monsters go by other rules, 
which will be discussed later.) 
STRENGTH governs: 
( I) how many hits a figure can take. "H its" represent combat 
damage. The hits a figure takes arc subtracted from its ST; when ST 
reaches I a figure collapses and cannot fight, and when ST reaches 
zero, that figure is dead. 
(2) what weapons a figure can use. Each weapon (shown on the 
WEAPON TABLE, page 13) has a ST number. Only a figure whose 
strength BEGINS at or above that number can use that weapon. 
(Reduction of ST during a fight does NOT affect weapon use.) 
(3) how well the figure does in unarmed combat (see HAND-TO-
HAND COMBAT, page 16). 
DEXTERITY governs: 
(I) how likely a figure is to hit an enemy it attacks. 
(2) how easily a figure can disengage from an enemy. 
(3) how quickly a figure can strike. 
Dexterity is ADJUSTED for several factors, such as armor, 
wounds, etc. When these rule refer to DX , the ADJUSTED DX is 
what is meant. A figure with a high basic DX may have a very small 
chance of hitting if its ADJUSTED DX is low - and a clumsy figure 
can improve its chances by getting a positive DX adjustment. A 
table of DX adjustments is given under ATTACKS. 
Once a figure's 24 beginning points are divided between ST and 
DX , they cannot be shifted. However, u figure who gains experience 
by surviving combat may gain 
s tr ~ ng th and dexterity, and in time 
become much more powerful - see EXPERIENCE. 

Once a figure's ST and DX have been determined, the player 
should decide what armor, if any, the figure will wear, and what 
weapons and/or shield he or she will carry. A figure may carry only 
two weapons (plus a dagger) at a time; a shield counts as a weapon. 
ARMOR AND SHIELDS are covered on page 11. They can provide 
protection, but reduce DX and movement allowance (MA). The 
weapons a figure chooses, of course, govern how much damage it 
can do. A figure's ST and DX must be considered carefully when 
weapons are chosen; a strong but clumsy fighter will use arms and 
tactics totally different from those of a dextrous but weak one. 
A record sheet or card should be made up for each figure, as 
in the example below: 
Ragnar is a Viking. He wears 
~~4NAR \lit; lf\\PE\VOU£, 
leather, which takes 2 hits per 
_ LiJ 
attack. He also carries a large 
S I "- II 
l\ ft shield which takes 2 hits per 
D.(., /3 (11)(10) 
attack, although it is usually 
"'" ~ 8 
slung on his back because he 
SPEAR l•I 
needs both hands for his spear. 
DA6MER. 1-1 
His card is complicated because 
he has two adjusted DX (in 
L.e:"w"~ ,..,,_,..,.p_,fs1ors 2.. fll1$; 
parentheses after his basic DX). 
L.<.t. SHIEi-i) /'1 w/-'11•~1..p 
The first is 
11 , which is his 
adjusted DX without the shield; 
the second is I 0, which is his 
DX when he uses the shield. He 
can withstand 2 hits per attack without loss of ST due to his leather 
armor; when he uses the shield he can take 4 hits/attack. His ST 
is 11, which is just enough to let him carry the spear. 
When Ragnar goes into combat, the hits he takes sllouto oe 
shown as tally marks next to his ST; if he survives, the hits he took 
can be erased, since he will take time to recover before another fight. 
A figure may not put on or take off armor during a combat, but 
it may pick up or drop weapons as long as it never carries more than 
two (plus a dagger) at once. Between combats, a figure may freely 
change weapons and armor. 
Giving each figure a name and background adds interest, especi-
ally when miniature figures are being used as counters. 
Once each player's figures are ready, you may begin the combat. 
IV. TURN SEQUENCING AND OPTIONS 
MELEE is played in turns, representing about five seconds each. 
During each turn, each figure may execute one "option" from the 
list below. Each option may include movement, attack, dcfense, 
or some combination. 
The options available to a figure wilt depend on whether or not 
it is "engaged," "disengaged," or in hand-to-hand combat. An en-
gaged figure is one that is adjacent to an enemy figure, in one of 
that figure's front hexes. See page 9 for diagrams and more details. 
NOTHING in Melee happens sin1ultaneously. Each movement or 
attack may affect the next one. Each turn goes through these stages: 
(J) Roll f9r initiative. Each player rolls a die. The winner may 
choose either to move his figure(s) first that turn, or to have the 
other player(s) move their figure(s) first. 
(2) Movement. The first player to move chooses ONE option for 
EACH of his/her figures, and executes the MOVEMENT part (if 
any) of that option for each figure. How far each figure may move 
depends on its movement allowance (MA) and the option chosen. 
(3) The second player then chooses options and moves all his 
figures the same way. (If there are more than two players, the third, 
fourth, and so on then pick options and move.) 
(4) All attacks arc carried out. No figure may attack unless it 
chose an option including the word "attack." Figures attack in the 
order of their ADJUSTED DX, highest first; ties are resolved each 
turn by a die roll. When figures are firing two arrows per turn, they 
fire their second arrows (again in order of adjDX) AFTER all figures 
have made their first attack. If a figure is killed or takes 8 or more 
hits in one turn BEFORE its time to attack comes, it does not 
get to attack that turn. 
(5) If any figure inf1icted hits (except with a missile or thrown 
weapon) on an enemy, and took no hits itself, it may retreat that 
enemy one hex in any direction and EITHER advance to the hex 
vacated by the enemy OR stand still (thus possibly becoming dis-
engaged). 
(6) Counters for thrown or dropped weapons are placed in the 
appropriate hexes, and counters for slain or unconscious figures are 
f1ipped upside down. 
If both sides still have figures able to fight, begin the next turn. 
OPTIONS 
An OPTION is a set of actions. A figure may execute ONE 
option each turn, and MAY NOT mix actions from different options. 
The options available to a figure depend on whether it is engaged, 
disengaged, or in HTH combat at the moment its turn to MOVE 
comes. During a turn, a player may change his mind about a figure's 
option, as long as (a) that figure has not yet acted, and (b) that 
figure did not move too far to allow it to take the new option. 
OPTIONS FOR DISENGAGED FIGURES 
A figure which is NOT engaged with an enemy when its turn to 
move comes may perform any ONE of the following options: 
(a) MOVE up to its full MA. 
(b) CHARGE A TT ACK. Move up to \12 its MA and attack with 
any weapon except a missile weapon. (A figure can never attack if 
it moved more than \12 its MA.) 
(c) DODGE. Move up to Yi its MA while dodging (seep. 18). 
(d) DROP. Move up to Yi its MA and drop to a prone or kneel-
ing position. 
(c) READY NEW WEAPON. Move up to 2 hexes, re-sling (NOT 
drop) its ready weapon and/or shield, and ready a new weapon and/ 
or shield, OR pick up and ready a dropped weapon and/or shield in 
the hex where movement ends. 
(I) MISSILE WEAPON ATTACK. Move up to 1 hex and fire a 
missile weapon. 
(g) ST AND UP. Ri e from prone, kneeling, or knocked-Oown 

position during movement phase: take NO other action. A figure 
MUST take a turn to stand up before attacking, running. etc. 
OPTIONS FOR ENGAGED FIGURES 
A figure which is engaged with an enemy (see definition, p. 9) 
WHEN ITS TURN COMES TO MOVE may perform any ONE of 
the following options: 
(h) SllIFT AND A TT ACK. Shift one hex (or stand still) and 
attack with any nonmissik weapon. 
(i) SHIFT AND DEFEND. Shift one hex (or stand still) and 
defend (see page 18). 
Ul ONE-LAST-SHOT MISSILE A TT ACK. If the figure had a 
missile weapon ready BEf-ORE it was engaged, it may get off one 
last shot. The missile weapon MUST be dropped next turn. (This 
option rellects the fact that you can almost always release an arrow 
at a charging enemy.) 
(k) CHANGE WEAPONS. Shift one hex (or stand still) and drop 
ready weapon (if any), and ready a new NONMISSILE weapon. (An 
engaged figure cannot ready or reload a missile weapon.) 
(I) DISENGAGE. See page 17 for an explanation of disengaging. 
(m) ATTEMPT HAND-TO-HAND ATTACK. J?uring the move-
ment phase, the figure stands still or shifts; when Its turn to attacl< 
comes, it moves onto the hex of any adjacent enemy, and attempts 
to hit with bare hands or (if it was ready) its dagger. 
(n) STAND UP. Same as (g) above. 
(o) PICK UP DROPPED WEAPON. "Bend over" (not moving), 
drop your ready weapon and/or shield (if any). and pick up and 
ready a dropped weapon in your hex . 
OPTIONS FOR FIGURES IN HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT 
(p) HTH ATTACK . Attempt to hit an opponent in the same hex 
with bare hands or, if dagger is readied, with the dagger. 
(q) ATTEMPT TO DRAW DAGGER. See page 16. 
(r) ATTEMPT TO DISENGAGE. Disengaging while in HTH 
combat is not automatic; it requires a die roll. See page 18. 
V.MOVEMENT 
Figures begin the game in any of the 4 entrance hexes (starred) 
at oppo ite ends of the arena. 
Each figure has a movement allowance (MA) of a certain number 
of hexes. An unarmored human has an MA of I 0 - that is, he can 
move 10 hexes per turn . Armor reduces MA; leather armor =MA 8, 
chainmail = MA 6, and plate armor also = MA 6. MAs for non-
!:mmans are given under NONHUMAN FIGURES (page 19). 
SHIFTING 
Only disengaged figures have options which let them move their 
full MA. An engaged figure may move only one hex during move-
ment, and must stay adjacent to all figures to which it is engaged; 
this is called a "shift" in the list of options. Figures in HTH combat 
may not move at all until they successfully disengage. 
Moving onto other figures. Normally, only one figure occupies a 
hex ; a figure may never move through a standing or kneeling figure. 
A figure may move into a hex with a fallen (unconscious or dead) 
figure and stop, or move into another figure's hex for I-ITH combat 
and stop. A figure may "jump over" an unconscious, dead, or prone 
figure at a cost of 3 from its MA. Whenever a figure moves into a 
hex with another figure (except for HTH), it immediately rolls 3 
dice against its adjDX, as though it were trying to hit something. 
lf this "saving roll" is missed, the figure falls down in that hex. 
A FIGURE MUST STOP ITS MOVEMENT when it enters any 
front hex of an enemy figure, thus becoming engaged. See FACING. 
VI. FACING 
Each figure faces one side of its hex , as shown by the direction 
the counter is turned . A player may change the facing of a figure 
whenever it MOVES, and may always change its facing at the end of 
its movement turn , even if it stayed in the same hex . 
A figure on the ground , or one bending over to pick up a 
we;ipon, is considered to face "rear" in all six directions; it has no 
front. However, a prone or kneeling archer has normal "front" 
hexes for purposes of determining where he/she may fire. 
Example: Astrid is facing the hex di-
\ 
f/ 
rectly "above" her in the diagram. The 
,._J ____ 
..;.<._ 
~~e:s ; l~~l:e~. s~~r:xe:s ~~~· h~~e si~~r h~:ens~ f a ~ 
the "r" hex is her rear hex . 
r:acing determines which figures are 
engaged. A figure is ENGAGED if it is in 
an ENEMY's front hex . If a figure is 
S 
behind an enemy, the front figure is 
engaged, but the rear one is not. 
r 
Facing also determines which figures may be attacked . ONLY 
AN ENEMY IN ONE OF YOUR THREE FRO T HEXES MAY BE 
A TT ACK ED. For missile and thrown weapons, only figures " in 
front" of you may be attacked, as shown below. 
In this diagram, Tark is not engaged. Bjorn is engaged (he is in 
Rolfs front hex), but Rolf is not engaged (he is in Bjorn's rear hex). 
Karl and Astaroth are both engaged; each is in one of the other's 
front hexes. Jon and Grath are not engaged; they are not enemies. 
c:re·0~
ir>-Cr:
. 
\ ~ -< ~~ -< 
·--:~~ ~-{'{~'&j-F~. 
' 
~-< 
,__,. 
~ r 
' 
j--<. 
-~ 
1--J' 
r---.' 
~-. 
(--
I-
.I 
,_/ 
\ _ _./ 
}--I 
\_-1 
~, 
The unshaded hexes are "in front or' Tark. He can rue missile 
weapons, or throw weapons, only at figures in these hexes. 
Attacking from an enemy's side hex adds +2 to your DX; attack-
ing from his rear adds +4. See ATTACKS, below. 
VII. ATTACKS. 
An "attack" is an attempt to hit an enemy. There are several 
types of attacks: regular, thrown-weapon, missile-weapon, and HTH. 

In order to attack (except HTH). a figure must have a READY 
WEAPON. A figure has one weapon and/or shield (specified by the 
player) ready when it enters the arena. A weapon stays ready after 
an attack, unless it is thrown or dropped (except a crossbow, which 
takes time to reload). In order to change weapons, a figure chooses 
option (c) or (k) to ready a new weapon. This takes up a turn; the 
new weapon can be used on the NEXT turn. A shield , like a weapon, 
is "ready" or not. An unrcady shield is slung on the figure's back. 
REMEMBER: A figure may not attack during a given turn unless 
it chose one of the options whose title includes the word "attack." 
l'igures which change weapons, stand up, move more than \12 their 
MA, disengage, etc., CANNOT attack that turn. 
Only one figure may be attacked per turn (exception: a figure 
which fires two arrows can fire at two different targets). 
ROLLING FOR A HIT 
When an attack is made, the attacker rolls three dice to sec whe-
ther he hit the enemy. To hit, a figure must roll its ADJUSTED DX 
or LESS on 3 dice. Thus, a figure with adjDX 8 must roll 8 or less. 
Adjustments to DX are as follows: 
ATTACKER'S ARMOR, SHIELD, ETC. 
Leather armor - 2 
Chairunail - 3 
Plate armor - 6 
Large shield (when ready) - 1 
Main-gauche as shield only -2 
Main-gauche as 2nd weapon - 4 
FACING 
Attacking from enemy's side +2 
Attacking from enemy's rear +4 
NO TE: Missile weapon attacks 
don't get DX adds for facing! 
WOUNDS 
A figure that took 5 or more hits 
last turn is DX -2. A figure reduced 
to ST 3 or less is DX - 3. 
THROWN WEAPON RANGE 
- I DX for every HEX distance 
to the target. 
MISSILE WEAPON RANGE 
No penalty if target is in same 
megahex o r 1 or 2 Ml-! distant. 
- 1 if target is 3 or 4 Ml-! distant. 
- 2 if target is 5 or 6 Ml-! distant 
- and so on, in bigger arenas. 
OTHER ADJUSTMENTS 
Crossbowman lying prone + 1 
Pole weapon user standing still, 
against charging enemy +2 
Missile/thrown attack against figure sheltering behind body 
T·•.; .,, ._ 
- 4 
Adjustments are figured before each attack. The adjDX repre-
sents the chance to hit the enemy , as stated above. Attacks come off 
in order of adjDX counting everything BUT missile and thrown 
weapon range ; a distant target makes you less accurate but no slower. 
The roll to hit is adjDX or less on 3 dice, as stated above. BUT: 
A roll of 3 always hits, regardless of DX, and does triple damage. 
A roll of 4 always hits, regardless of DX, and does double damage. 
A roll of 5 always hits, regardless of DX. 
A roll of 16 always misses, regardless of DX. 
A roll of 17 always misses, and the attacker drops that weapon in 
his own hex. (A thrown weapon drops in the target hex instead.) 
A roll of 18 always misses, and the attacker's weapon is broken . 
ROLLING FOR DAMAGE 
When an attacker rolls his DX or less on 3 dice, he hits the 
enemy. How much damage he does is determined by another dice 
roll. How many dice arc rolled depends on the attacker's weapon, as 
shown on the WEAPON TABLE (p. 13). For instance, a broadsword 
gets 2 dice. If a figure attacks with a broadsword and hits, he then 
rolls 2 dice. The result is the number of hits the enemy takes (al-
though his armor will take some of those hits for him) . Some weap-
ons have pluses and minuses. A small ax gets 1 + 2, which means 
you roll 1 die and add 2 to the result. If you hit with a small ax and 
roll 3, the enemy takes 5 hits. A dagger gets I -
I ; if you roll a 3, 
the enemy only takes 2 hits. 
ARMOR AND SHIELDS 
Armor and shields take hits for you , thus protecting you. J7or 
instance, plate armor takes 5 hits/attack. If your enemy attacks with 
a broadsword (2 dice) and rolls 7, you should take 7 hits - but your 
armor stops 5 of these, and you only check off 2 hits. If a figure in 
plate is hit by 3 different attacks in one turn, the armor takes 5 
from each attack. 
Shields work just the same way , except that if a shield is " ready" 
it protects against attacks from the 3 front hexes, and if it is not 
ready, it protects against attacks from the rear hex (and docs not 
subtract from your DX). 
A left-hand dagger, or main-gauche, acts as a shield to parry 
I hit/attack (non-missile weapons only) from your front hexes. 
POLE WEAPONS 
The javelin , spear, halberd, and pike axe are "pole weapons." A 
figure which charge-attacks (option b) with a pole weapon does 
double damage if it hits. A figure which uses a pole weapon al(ainst 
a charge-attacking enemy also does double damage if it hits. If 
a figure with a pole weapon stays in the same hex on the turn an 
enemy charges him , he gets +2 DX with his pole weapon against 
that enemy . If he changed facing, he does not lose the +2 DX. 
THE LEFT-HAND DAGGER 
A fighter may use a main-gauche, or left-hand dagger, with any 
other one-handed weapon . It may be used in two ways: (I) On any 

turn the fighter uses it only as a shield , it stops one hit from any 
non-missile attack, and adjusts his OX by - 2. (2) On any turn he 
uses it as a hield AND weapon, it st ill stops one hit from any 
non-missile weapon. lt also lets him make TWO at tacks that turn 
(against the same enemy); one with the main-gauche and one with 
the other weapon. BOTH attacks are at DX - 4. 
A main-gauche gets l -
I in HTH combat. A fighter may NOT 
use two daggers, or a main-gauche and dagger, in HTH combat. 
SHIELD-RUSH ATTACKS 
The "shield-rush" (slamming your shield into your foe in order 
to knock him over) is an important tactic in some kinds of combat. 
The shield-rush is considered an attack for all purposes; that is, 
you can strike with the shield as a charge attack or regular attack. If 
you rush with the shield, you may not also strike with a weapon. 
In order to make a shield-rush, you must have a shield (either 
large or small) ready. Make your attack by rolling as usual. If you 
fail to make your "to hit" roll, nothing happens. If you DO make 
your roll, your ENEMY must now make a saving roll to stay afoot. 
To stay afoot after being hit with a shield rush, your foe must 
make a saving roll against his adjDX. If the figure who hit him is 
AS STRONG or STRONGER, this is a regular 3-die roll. However, if 
the figure who hit him is WEAKER, only TWO dice are rolled. 
Weapon 
Dagger* 
Main-Gauche 
Rapier 
Club* 
Hammer* 
Cutlass 
Shortsword 
Mace* 
Small ax* 
Broadsword 
Morningstar 
2-handed sword t 
Battleaxe t 
Javelin * 
Spear* t 
Halberd t 
Pike axe t 
Thrown rock 
Sling 
Small bow t 
Horse bow t 
Longbow t 
Light crossbow t 
Heavy crossbow t 
WEAPON TABLE 
Dice 
L - I 
l -
I + 1 
2 - 2 
2 - I 
2 - I 
I+ 2 
2 + l 
3 - I 
ST 
LO 
l l 
Notes 
I + 2 in HTH combat. 
See main-gauche rules, p. 8. 
Pole Weapons 
1 - 1 
See Pole Weapon rules. 
1+1 
l l 
" 
2 - 1 
2 + 2 
Missile Weapons 
l - 4 
A figure can alway s pick 
1 - 2 
up a rock. 
L -
L 
2 shots/turn if adjDX = 15+ 
2 shots/turn if adjDX= 16+ 
1 + 2 
2 shots/turn ifadjDX = 18+ 
f. ires every other turn , or 
every turn if adjDX = 14+ 
Fires every 3rd turn, or 
every other turn if 
adjDX = 16+ 
*This weapon may be thrown - see THROWN WEAPONS. 
t This is a two-handed weapon . If the fighter has a shield , it must be 
slung on his/her back while the weapon is ready. 
ARMOR 
Plate armor takes 5 hits/attack; wearer's MA= 6 ; - 6 to DX. 
Chainmail takes 3 hits/attack; wearer's MA= 6; - 3 to DX. 
Leather arm or takes 2 hits/attack ; wearer's MA= 8; - 2 to DX. 
o armor: MA= LO, no hits stopped, no DX penalty. 
SHIELDS 
Large shield takes 2 hits/attack (to front) ; - I to DX. 
Small shield takes I hit/a ttack (to front) ; no DX penalty . 
Main-gauche parries I hit/a ttack; -2 DX , or - 4 if used as weapon. 
REMEMBER: A FIGURE MAY CARRY ONE DAGGER OR 
MAIN-GAUCHE, AND TWO OTHER WEAPONS. A SHIELD 
COU TS AS A WEAPON. 

Since it is fairly easy to roll your adjDX or Jess on two dice, a shield 
rush by a weaker figure is not too dangerous. (A roll of 12, though, 
is an automatic fall. On 3 dice, a 16, 17, or 18 is an automatic fall.) 
A figure which fails to roll its adjDX or less immediately falls down. 
When comparing strengths for a shield-rush, use original ST, not 
wounded ST. Also, note that a rush against a figure more than twice 
your ST will have no effect. Shield-rushing a giant is pointless ... 
The shield-rush NEVER puts hits on a foe; it ONLY floors him. 
THROW WEAPONS 
Some weapons may be thrown (see WEAPON TABLE, page 13). 
A thrown-weapon attack is treated exactly like a regular attack, 
but there is a DX adjustment of - I fo r every hex of distance to the 
target. A ta rget 3 hexes away is attacked at - 3 DX. 
It is possible for o ther figures to block the pat h of a thrown wea-
pon. If a line d rawn from the ccnter of the attacker's hex to the 
center of the target hex passes through any hex containing a stand-
ing figure, that figure is " in the way." A line passing along the edge 
of a hex does NOT go thro ugh that hex. When a weapon is th rown, 
the attacker must FIRST "roll to miss" each figure between him 
and his target. The attacker makes his DX roll as usual, but if he 
rolls his adjDX or below, he MISSES, and the weapon flies past; 
otherwise, it hits. You may not "roll to miss" an enemy. 
When you are "rolling to miss." a 14 becomes an au tom a tic hit, 
a 15 is a double-damage hit, and a 16 is a triple-damage hit. 17 
means the weapon d rops in that hex; 18 means it breaks. 
When a th rown weapon hits, it falls to the ground in that hex. 
If a thrown weapon misses its intended target, it continues along 
the line drawn between the attacker's hex and the target hex fo r 10 
hexes past the target hex. Roll fo r each standing figure whose hex 
the line passes through (rolling to hit or to miss, as appropriate), 
until the weapon hits, goes 10 hexes, or strikes a wall and stops. 
Whether the attacker is trying to hit or to miss, his DX is always 
adjusted by - 1 fo r each hex distance to the figure rolled for. 
A may throw a weapon at B 
(DX - 2) or C (DX -3). To throw 
at D, he must ro ll to miss B (DX 
-2) before rolling to hit D (DX 
- 3). He may throw at E (DX - 2) , 
but if he misses, must then roll 
to hit (or miss) F (DX - 3). If he 
misses F, he must roll fo r G (DX 
- 4). If he wanted to hit G, he 
wo uld have to roll and miss both 
E and F. He CAN NOT throw at 
H, who is in the shaded area -
BEHIND him. 
MISSILE WEAPONS 
Generally, only a disengaged figure may attack with a missile 
wea pon (option f). However, a figure with a missile weapon ready 
can get off one shot if suddenly engaged (o ption j), but must then 
drop the missile weapon on the nex t turn . 
Missile weapon fire calls fo r a DX adj ustment based on the 
number of MEGA HEXES (MH ) distance to the ta rget. If the target 
is in the sa me MH or is 1 or 2 Mlf distant , there is no DX adjust-
ment. If the target is 3 or 4 MH distant, DX is - 1. If the target is 5 
or 6 MH dista nt, DX is - 2. 
Otherwise, missile weapons fo llow the same line-of-flight rules as 
do throw n weapons. The targe t must be in fro nt of the attacker. and 
the attacker must roll to miss any standing figure in the way. A 
missile which misses its target continues until it hits a wall or a 
figure; roll as above to hit (or miss) each fig ure its line of n ight 
passes through, mak ing new DX adjustments as necessary. A ro ll 
of 17 or 18 on any target bu t the first breaks the AR ROW but 
does not affect the bow. 
Missile weapons never get adds for the target's facing. 
The DX adjustments fo r missile and thrown weapon distance arc 
NOT considered when determin ing which figure at tacks first. 
Crossbows normally fire every 2nd o r 3rd turn (depending on 
user's DX and type of bow -
sec WEAPONS TABLE) . Reload ing a 
crossbow comes under the "ready a weapon" op tion for all purposes. 
Prone and kneeling fire. Crossbows may be fired from a pro ne 
position. Any bow may be fired fro m a kneeling position. A cross-
bow may be reloaded by a prone or kneeling figure; no other 
weapon may be readied by a prone or kneeling figure. 
A crossbowman lying pro ne gets a + 1 DX adjustment. 
Sheltering directly behind fallen bodies. 
Any figure may lie prone or kneel in a hex directly behind a 
sheltering body. A missile/thrown weapon attack then has a chance 
of hitting that body instead. Any figure making a missile or thrown 
weapon attack against a "sheltering" figure suffers a - 4 DX adjust-
ment. In a situation where it matters (i.e., the "body" was still 
alive), the archer must make a second roll - rolling his adjDX to 
try to MISS - if and only if he misses his original target. 
HITTING YOUR FRIENDS 
An attacker must "roll to miss" when his missile or thrown 
weapon passes through the he:-. of a figure he docs not want to 
hit (see THROWN WEAPONS). In 
the same way, he must "roll to miss" 
a friendly figure when he strikes at 
an enemy in the friendly figure's 
hex and misses. This can happen 
when a standing figure tries to 
hit an enemy on the 
ground in HTH 
combat, and 
misses. He 
may then roll, one 
by one, to see 
if he hits other 
enemies in that 
~ 
hex. If he misses them 
all, he must roll, one by 
one, to MISS each 
friendly figure in that 

hex. I-le stops rolling when he hits one figure , or misses them all. 
Figures in HTH combat never hit their friends in the same HTH 
combat. Only standing figures striking " into the pile" must roll. 
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT 
A figure may move ONTO an enemy figure's hex, initiating HTH 
combat, if (a) the enemy has his back to the wall, or is lying down, 
prone, or kneeling, or (b) the enemy has a lower MA, or (c) the 
attacker comes in from the rear, or (d) the enemy agrees to HTH 
combat. Initiating HTH combat is considered an attack. 
A disengaged figure picks option (b) to initiate HTH combat; he 
moves onto the enemy's hex during movement and attacks during 
com bat. An engaged figure picks option (m), stands still or shifts, 
and enters an enemy hex and attacks during COMBAT. 
If the attacker had his dagger ready already, he may use it in 
HTH combat. Otherwise, he drops his ready weapon and shield in 
the hex he started from and at tacks bare-handed. 
When a figure is attacked HTH , it immediately rolls one die to 
determine its defense against the HTH attack, as follows: 
On a roll of I or 2, the defender drops his ready weapon and/or 
shield (unless ready weapon is a dagger) and fights bare-handed. 
Both figures fall to the ground in the defender's hex. 
On a roll of 3 or 4 , the defender drops his ready weapon and/or 
shield, but has time to ready his dagger if he has one. He will be 
able to use it in his next attack. Both figures fall to the ground in 
the defender's hex . 
On a roll of 5, the defender docs not 
drop his weapon, and the attacker 
immediately backs up to the hex 
from which he entered the 
defender's hex. HTH combat 
docs not take place. 
On a roll of 6, the defender 
does not drop his weapon, 
and AUTOMATICALLY 
gets a hit on the attacker 
(even if the defender had 
already attacked that 
turn!) The at tackt:r 
must retreat one 
hex as above. I ITH 
combat docs not 
take place. (If the 
attacker jumped 
the defender from 
behind , ignore a 
6 and roll again.) 
Since figures in HTH 
combat arc on the 
ground and/or grappling 
with their foe(s). they 
always get the +4 "rear 
hex " DX adjustment. 
During the combat phase, HTH combat is rolled fo r like any 
other combat. A dagger gets I + 2, a main-gauche gets 1 -
I, bare 
hands against a stronger enemy get 1 -
4, bare hands against an 
enemy of the same strength get I -
3, and bare hands against a 
weaker enemy get 1 - 2. 
A figure engaged in HTH combat may try to draw and ready its 
dagger (if it has one) by picking option (q) . On a roll of I, 2, or 3, 
the dagger was drawn and readied; otherwise, nothing happened. 
MULTIPLE HTH COMBAT 
When two figures are rolling around fighting, any other figure 
can move onto that hex and join the brawl, using option (b) or (m), 
without rolling to see if the attempt is successful. If two or more 
figures are fighting one enemy, the lone fighter's strength is com-
pared to the total enemy strengths to see how many dice he gets. If 
he is stronger than all put together, he gets 1 - 2, etc ... When there 
are two or more figures on the same side in a HTH brawl, all figures 
on a side get I - 3. 
Figures on the ground in HTH combat can ONLY attack the 
enemies they are in HTH combat with. They may attempt to dis-
engage according to the disengagement rules on page 18. 
If a standing figure attacks an enemy who is down in HTH 
combat with other figures, and misses, he then rolls for each other 
enemy in the HTH combat, and then for each friend, until he hits 
someone. Example: Two µob lins have engaged Ragnar in HTH 
combat. He can only attack them (he must pick one or the other}, 
and they can both only attack him . Bjorn comes up with his sword 
and hacks at one of the goblins. His DX fo r that attack will be +4 
(because the goblin is on the ground , it counts as a rear attack), 
plus Bjorn's other DX adjustmen ts, if any. If Bjorn misses the 
µo blin, he rolls again -
same DX adjustments -
to sec if he hit 
the other goblin. If he misses again, he rolls - same adjustments -
to see if he hit Ragnar. See HITIING YOUR FRIENDS, page 15. 
If a missile or thrown weapon is aimed at a pile of figures in 
HTH combat, FIRST ro ll to sec if it hit, and then roll RANDOMLY 
to see WHO it hit. It is not a good idea to fire arrows into a brawl... 
DISENGAGING 
Disengaging is the action of moving away from a figure(s) that 
has you engaged. 
A figure which selects the "d isengage" option sta nds still or 
shifts during its movement phase. When its turn to attack comes. 
instead of attacking, it moves one hex in any direction. You MAY 
move onto anpther figure to attempt HTH combat that same turn. 
Note that an enemy with a DX higher than yours will be able to 
strike at you on the tu rn you disengage, since his attack phase 
comes before yours. An enemy with a lower DX will not have a 
chance to strike at you if you disengage away from him . 
A figure engaged with more than one enemy may disengage fro m 
some wh ile remaining engaged with others, but may NEVER attack 
on the tu rn it disengages. 
A kneeling. prone, or fa llen figure cannot disengage; it must 
first stand up. 

DISENGAGI G FROM HTH COMBAT 
A figure in HTH combat may not automatically disengage, but 
must pick option (r), the attempt to disengage. During the move-
ment phase it does not move, since figures in HTH remain in the 
same hex. During its attack phase, it does not attack, but rolls 1 die 
instead . If its DX is superior to the enemy's, it needs a 1, 2, or 3; 
if its DX is the same or less, or if there are more than one enemies, 
it needs a l. A figure which disengages from HTH combat immedi-
ately stands up and moves to any adjacent, empty hex. 
DEFENDING AND DODGING 
The "dodge" option (for disengaged figures) and the "defend" 
option (for engaged figures) have exactly the same effect. A figure 
which dodges or defends will never do any damage to the enemy. 
However, a figure attempting to hit a dodging figure (with a missile 
or thrown weapon) or a defending figure (with any other type of 
attack) must roll its adjDX on FOUR dice, rather than three, to hit. 
There are no automatic hits; a roll of 20 or better is a miss. 
A figure may NOT defend without a non-missile weapon ready, 
to parry with. Any disengaged figure may dodge. 
FORCING RETREAT 
A figure which hit an enemy figure (missile or thrown weapon 
hits, or hits taken by the enemy's armor, don't count) and is NOT 
hit itself, may fo rce the enemy to retreat one hex at the end of the 
turn. The victorious player moves the enemy figure one hex in any 
direction, into any hex which is vacant or contains only a-fallen 
figure. He may then choose EITHER to stay still OR to move into 
the hex from which the enemy retreated. If there is no vacant or 
fallen-figure hex adjacent to the foe, you cannot force a retreat. 
REACTIONS TO INJURY 
A figure which takes 5 or more hits in one tum has its DX 
adjusted - 2 for the NEXT turn ONLY. 
A figure which takes 8 or more hits in one turn IMMEDIATELY 
falls down. If it has not already attacked, it may not attack that 
turn. It may do nothing NEXT tum except stand up (or stay down). 
If it is in HTH combat it may do NOTHING next tum. 
A giant loses 2 DX for 9 hits in one tum, and falls down on 16. 
Any figure whose ST is reduced to 3 or less has an extra -3 DX 
for the remainder of the game. Any figure whose ST is reduced to 1 
falls unconscious, and any figure whose ST is reduced to 0 dies. 
DROPPED WEAPO S 
A dropped weapon counter should be placed in a hex where 
(a) a thrown we'apon lands, (b) a fii:ure is standing when it drops its 
weapon to ready a new one (engaged figures ~1 UST drop their ready 
weapon to ready a new one; diseni:aged figures may re-sling their 
ready weapon as they ready a new one) , or (c) a figure drops 
its weapon when it ro lls a 17 on the " to hit " roll. 
The co unter for a dead or unco nscious rii:ure is assumed to 
include a droppcd weapon counter for each weapon it was carrying 
when it fell. 
When a dropped weapon is picked up, the counter is removed . 
VIII. NONHUMA 
FIGURES 
In order to simulate fa ntasy combat or gladiatorial contests, you 
may wish to use nonhuman figures in Mclee. 
MONSTERS A D BEASTS 
A BEAR has a MA of 8. It normally does 2 + 2 damage, or 3 dice 
in HTH combat. Its fur acts as armor, taking 2 hits/attack . Sug-
gested ST = 30 (this is a BIG bear). Suggested DX= I I . 
A WOLf' has a MA of 12. Its bite does I + l damage, and its fur 
stops I hit/attack. Suggested ST= 10 (more for dire wolves) ; sug-
gested DX= 14. 
A GIANT SNAKE has MA = 6. Its bite does I + I damage. It 
is very hard to hit ; - 3 off your DX fo r any attack on it. Suggested 
ST = 12; suggested DX = 12. It 
ide hexes are considered fro nt 
hexes for all purposes, because it can strike so quickly. 
Other animal figures can be set up along similar lines. 
A GIANT (say , 9-12 feet tall) occupies 3 hexes; see sketch for 
which sides are "front." His MA is 10 unless he is in annor; count 
the num ber of hcxe his f'RONT 
moves. His ST will be AT LEAST 
24 ; it might be 40 or 50 if he's a 
tough one. His DX will be low -
rarely more than 9, even without 
armor. A giant uses big weapons, 
like a spiked club worth (I + I) 
for every 10 ST he starts with. A 
giant gets 2 -
1 in HTH combat. 
A GARGOY LE (sec cover) has DX = 11 , ST= 20. Its stony flesh 
stops 3 hits/attack, and its rocklike hands do 2 dice damage in regu-
lar or HTH combat. It uses no weapons. Its MA is 8 on the ground , 
16 if flying. It lands to attack, but may land ON you for HTH ... 
An ORC' is just like a human figure - except evil. 
A HOBGOBLIN fights like a man, but its ST and DX total to 
only 20, with a minimum of only 6 each. 
A GOBLIN also fights like a man, but is even smaller; minimum 
ST and DX 4 each, totaling only 18. 
FA TASY FIGHTERS 
An FLF is like a man , e;1.cept his MA 
without armor is I 2. In leather, he moves 
I 0. His movement in other armor is the 
same as a man's. Minimum ST = 6; 
minimum DX = I O; total = 24. 
A DWARF is also like a man, except 
min DX = 6, min ST = 10; total = 24. 
Dwarves do an extra +I damage 
when they hit with hammers or axes. 
A HALFLING has ST and DX adding 
to 20. Min ST= 4; min DX= 12. Halflings 
get an extra +3 DX adjustment with 
missile or thrown weapons, and do an 
extra + l damage when they hit with them. 

IX. EXPERIENCE 
l'igures which survive combat gain experience, which can in-
crease their strength and dexterity . The experience a fighter gains 
depends on the type of combat, and whether the enemy was super-
ior or inferior in total attributes (ST+ DX). In multi-figure combats, 
the AVERAGE superiority is considered. 
COMBAT TO THE DEATH. Continues until all on one side are 
slain . 50 experience points (EP) to each survivor, or 70 if the enemy 
averaged more than 3 superior in ST+ DX. 
ARENA COMBAT. Continues until all on one side arc dead OR 
escape from the "door" from which they entered. Unconscious 
figures may not be slain. Winners get 30 EP; defeated survivors get 
20 EP (unless they ran away unhurt, in which case they lose I O EP). 
If one side averaged 3 or more weaker in total attributes, survivors 
on that side get I 0 extra EP each. 
PRACTICE COMBAT. No missile weapons. All weapons arc 
blunted and do Yi damage. A figure drops out when its ST goes to 3 
or less. (It is possible to get killed in practice - but difficult.) Those 
still on their feet when one side is elimina ted get I 0 EP each. Others 
get nothing but bruises. 
When a figure gets I 00 EP, he/she may "trade them in" for one 
additional point added to EITH ER basic ST OR basic DX. There is 
no limit to how high a fighter can raise his or her attributes, with 
enough experience. 
X. COMBAT EXAMPLE 
The combat described !n the introduction actually took place -
in MELEE. Here's how it happened ... 
F~Vlv> 
:;.1, 11. 
fflfl•' 
DIC• It, (1) 
Sfl•!lllWOAD 
1-J 
DA!ol<E I\ 
I ·t 
llV\JAll'flAIL /STDI'~ .S 
L"°. Stt"l.I> 
tHr) 
INt}(..f' 
f.T• J't 
lflA ~/o 
l>X >/O 
L•r<"Bow 
/ •'L 
'l-111u•P•o ~"'·~o 3-1 
PAC.C.0, 
I -f 
/-10 f.'-~OR.. 
Both Flavius and Wulf are beginning figures, with ST and DX 
totaling 24 each. Flavius is a legionary; he carries a gladius (short-
sword) and shield; his Roman armor counts as chainmail. The 
armor and large shield adjust his DX to 8, and stop 5 hits/attack . 
Wulf is a Germanic tribesman ; he wears no armor, so his basic 
and adjusted DX arc the same. 
TURN I . The two enter from opposite sides of the board . 
Flavius wins the initiative roll. Seeing that his enemy has a bow, he 
runs toward him his full MA -
6 hexes. Wulf moves up I . Flavius 
cannot attack, but Wulf can fire, and does. He rolls 9 on 3 dice, 
which is less than his DX of 10, so he hits (l'lavius was close enough 
that there was no DX adjustment for range). A longbow does I + 2 
damage. Wulf rolls l die, getting a 5, so Flavius takes 7 hits. His 
armor and shield stop 5 - so only 2 hits are marked against Flavius. 
T URN 2. Wulf win · the initiative ro ll , and tells Flaviu s to go 
first. l'laviu s decides to move Yi his MA (3 hexes) and dodge. Wulf 
backs up I . Flavius cannot attack. Wulf can fire again. Since Flavius 
dodged, Wulf has to roll on FOUR dice to see if he hits. He rolls a 
16, which is not nearly good enough, so he misses. 
T UR 
3. Wul f wins the initiative roll again , and tells Flavius to 
move first. This lets Flavius run the 5 hexes to where Wulf is 
standing -
so Wulf is engaged when his chance to move comes. 
Wulf shift s one hex so his back won't be to the wall. Flaviu s can't 
attack; he moved more than Yi his MA . Wulf can fire his bow o ne 
last time, ince he wasn't engaged at the start o f the turn . I-Jc rolls 
an 8 o n 3 dice, which hits -
but when he rolls for damage, he only 
rolls a 2, for 4 hits. Flavius' arm or sto p that much, so he is unhurt. 
TUR 
4 . Wulf wins the initiative. He tells Flaviu to go rust. 
Flavius chooses no t to move; Wulf shifts again , drops the bow (he 
has to) and readies his two-handed sword . This time Wulf cannot 
a ttack -
but Flavius can. He needs an 8 or under on 3 dice. lie rolls 
a 16, which misses. (A 17 would have meant he dropped his sword .) 
TUR 
5 . The players agree to fo rget about initiative; they 
simply want to hack at each other. Since Wulrs adjusted DX is 
higher, he normally gets first hack. I-Jc rolls a 13, which misses. 
Flavius rolls an 8 , which hits. His shortsword does 2 -
I damage. lie 
ro lls 2 dice and gets a 7, so Wulf takes 6 hits. Since Wulf has no 
armor. all 6 hits count. Wulf is badly hurt. Flavius doesn't bother 
to force a retrea t. 
TURN 6. Wulrs DX is - 2 this turn , because of the injury last 
turn , so his adjDX is 8 -
the same as Flaviu s' They ro ll to sec who 
strikes first; Wulf wins. lie rolls a 4 , which is a hit with double 
damage. His sword is a 3 -
I weapon; he rolls 3 dice, and ge ts a 6. 
6 minus I is 5 , which is doubled : 10 hits on Flavius. The armor and 
shield take 5 ; Flavius takes the other 5. Now he, too, is badly hurt. 
TURN 7. The pla yers don't bo ther with initiative. Wulrs DX is 
back up to 10, but f'la vius' is - 2 ... so it is o nly 6 this turn . Flavius 
knows his chance to hit is bad, so he picks option (i) and defend s. 
This means Wulf must roll 10 or less on FOUR dice. He fails. 
Flavius, of course, has no chance to hit, since he is defending. 
TURN 8. Bo th figures now have their DX back to normal. They 
ignore initiative and hack at each o ther. Wulf, with the better DX , 
hacks first ; he rolls a 13, which misses. Flavius rolls a 6 to hit. He 
rolls two dice for his shortsword and gets a 7 -
so he puts 6 more 
hits on Wulf. Wulf ha now taken 12 hits. 13 will knock him out , and 
14 will kill. Flavius retreats him one hex and follows. 
TURN 9. Wulf's injured DX is only 5 (- 2 for taking 5 hits last 
turn, and - 3 more because his ST is down to 2. Flavius rolls a 7, 
which hits; since his sword will do at least l damage, Wulf is a goner. 

If you enjoy this game, you'll 
want to read 
THE 
SPACE GAMER 
the science fiction and fantasy game magazine 
Science fiction and fantasy are coming into their 
own. Wargaming is increasing in popularity. And 
more and more people are combining the two. 
Science fiction and fantasy gaming -
played in 
person, by mail, or via computer -
is a rapidly-
growing hobby for the intelligent and imaginative. 
And The Space Gamer puts you right in the middle. 
•Articles on gaming 
•Game-oriented fiction 
and stories based 
on actual play 
•Letters 
•Reviews of new games 
•News and new products 
• Original art 
•And more every issue ... 
You'll find commentary on this game -
from 
gamers all over the country -
in The Space Gamer. 
There'll be new scenarios, optional rules, and 
background material for CHITIN and many other 
games. Take a look at The Space Gamer. It could 
introduce you to a whole new world. 
. TJ:e Space Gamer is published bi-monthly. A six-issue subscrip-
tion 1s $8.00; twelve issues, $15.00. Subscribers only are entitled to 
special discounts on Metagaming publications. 
To subscribe, send your check or money order to: 
METAGAMING 
Box 15346, Austin, TX 78761 
SCIENCE FICTION 
AND FANTASY 
Me_tagaming's MicroGames are small, fast-playing, and 
inexpensive. But not trivial. A MicroGame is a complete 
wargame ... one you can put in your pocket and play at lunch. 
More play for less money? Try a MicroGame and see. 
'l:t'.\"7{ ~ 
f7'I' ~ 
"'m 
A battle of sorcerors- the magical combat system from 
7:t;f ~ k~~ 
~ The f antasy Trip. Easy to learn ... but you'll need skill 
and imagina1ion as you fight swords with spells. This game is compatible with MELEE 
(below) ... o you can combine the two for even more involved play. WIZARD ha a larger 
rulebook (with fu ll color cover) and map than the other MicroGames, so it' priced at $3.95. 
The price for subscribers to Metagaming 's magazine, The Space Gamer. is only $3.50. 
The war is over. Everybody is dead. Bui nobody told the machines. In ~~V~"I"~ 
RIVETS, two simple-minded computer complexes slug it out, constantly a 
reprogramming their even stupider robot fighters to destroy each other's 
~
minions. A less-than-serious look at 1he end of life as we know ii. $2.95, 
:A,. 
or $2.50for subscribers 10 The Space Gamer. Fu ll-color cover. 
• 
WARPWAR A game of interstellar maneuver and 1actical comba1. Players 
design their own ships -
each with its own offensive, defen-
combat system. To win, you must outguess your opponen1. 
-
• 
""""-....-II. 
sive, and movement capabilities -
and battle with a unique dicele~
s 
oM 
$2.95 -$2.50for TSG subscribers. 
....,,.. 
Man-to-man combat with ancient weapons -
from The fantasy Trip. A 
game for one, two, or several players. You create fighters, set their strength 
and dexterity, and send them into the arena. Combat humans. animals . 
.J!lff f.rl' ')'( f.rl' f.rl' 
mon~ters, elves, dwarves, or ores -
it's Up lO you. 
;JJ t!l ~ 
J4. ~ 
~ $2. 9J -
$2. 50 for TSG subscnbers. 
The intelligent in ects of the plane1 Chelan go to war for one reason L 
only. Food. This detailed tactical game pits varying forces of the 
specially-bred Hymenopteran warrior types against one another. 
Victory goes to 1he player who remove the most food -
including 
CH:r.N I
enemy bodies- from the board. $2. 95. $2.50for TSG subscribers. 
j Ii : 
("! O~ 
The OG RE is a cybernetic tank ... 30 meters long, armed with 
lJ n c:: 
nuclear weapons, incredibly tough, and inhumanly intelligent. 
This fast-moving game pits one Ogre against a large force of 
"conventional" tanks, hovercraft, and infantry in the year 
2085. It's an even match ... $2.95. $2.50/or TSG subscribers. 
IVIETAGAIVllNG 
Rox 15346 
Austin, Texas 78761 
Ask for Metagammg produc1s 01 your hobby shop ... or order directly from us. 

The first part of a new fantasy game series ... 
Co111ponents include: Rule bookie! / 8!4" x 14 " arena 
111ap / 68 counters for 111e11. beasrs, and 111onsters 
MELEE is a game of man-to-man combat with archaic 
weapons. Each counter represents a single warrior, with 
his own individually determined strength and dexterity. 
Players choose weapons and tactics for their fighters, and 
send them into combat against men , beasts, or monsters ... 
to victory or death. 
MELEE is part of The Fantasy Trip , Metagam ing's new 
fantasy role-playing system. It can be used as a combat 
system for any other fantasy game 
or you can play out 
individual combats for their own sake. 
MELEE takes swordplay •.ut of the books and on to the 
gameboard. Choose your weapons; don your armor. The 
MELEE is about to begin ... 
If you enjoy MELEE, try WIZARD (the magical combat 
system from The Fantasy Trip) and DEATH TEST ... a 
programmed adventure using the MELEE rnles! 
METAGA~VllNG 
03-1-003 
Box 15346, Austin, Texas 78761