8+
1–4
by Oliver Richtberg
A cooperative temple-building game for
1–4 prospective builders, 8 years and up
Deep inside the green hell of MENARA, you discover wondrously shaped fragments of an ancient structure. This 
makes your explorer‘s heart beat faster. Many thousands of years ago, there must have been a temple at this place. 
What might it have looked like? Would it be possible to reconstruct it? To accomplish this, you have to work together.
Strange glyphs decorate the remains of the ancient masonry and mysterious construction plans of the temple tower 
have turned up. It is as if a primitive curse is upon this place. For any mistake you make, the old construction plans 
require the building of an additional level. So you will need to aim high in order to achieve your goal!
Mind your ﬁ ngers and don‘t tremble with reverence. That way, you‘ll grow with your tasks and bring the ancient 
temple of MENARA to new life.
 
(”menara“ is Malaysian for temple tower)
Reconstruct the temple together. To do so, you try to fulﬁ ll the instructions on each individual 
 construction plan card whenever possible. Use the columns and temple ﬂ oors wisely and place them 
very skillfully. It is important that you consider the consequences of your own game turns. Only then 
can your fellow players also be instrumental in the success of the building project! Mishaps, impru-
dence, and unfavorable construction plans always have the same dire consequence: You have to build 
your temple higher … and higher … and maybe higher than you would like to.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
GAME MATERIALS
76 columns
1 cloth bag
30 yellow
20 red
8 white
6 blue
12 black
(with a light and a dark side, each with 
three to six colored column bases)
1 camp
35 construction 
plan cards:
5 level cards
(backs and 
fronts without 
a glyph)
9 blue glyphs
12 yellow glyphs
14 red glyphs
18 temple ﬂ oors

SET-UP
 Before the ﬁ rst game, punch out all parts from the 
die-cut sheets and put the camp together.
 Put the columns into the cloth bag, then randomly 
draw out six columns and place them in the camp.
 Sort the construction plan cards. Shufﬂ e 
each glyph color separately. Form three 
separate (draw) piles.
 Pile the 18 temple ﬂ oors on top of one 
 another in random order to form a quarry.
 Take the 3 top temple ﬂ oors and put 
them in the middle of the table so that 
they touch each other (but don‘t 
overlap) at two points 
. 
These three temple ﬂ oors 
form the temple base. 
You may choose freely 
whether to place the 
light or the dark 
side of a temple ﬂ oor 
facing up.
 Now each player randomly draws a certain 
number of columns out of the bag and places 
them in front of him. The number of columns 
depends on the number of players ( ) and on 
the degree of difﬁ culty at which you choose to 
play MENARA:
 Next to that, lay 
out the level cards in 
a row. The number of level 
cards you lay out determines 
how many levels the temple must 
have at the end of the game. 
The temple base does not count as a level.
 The number of level cards you lay out determines the degree of difﬁ culty of that particular game of 
MENARA:
 For an easy game, start with 3 level cards.
 For a medium game, start with 4 level cards.
 For a difﬁ cult game, start with all 5 level cards.
Columns
easy
medium
difﬁ cult

COURSE OF THE GAME
The player who last entered the top ﬂ oor of a building begins. After that, play proceeds in turn.
Discuss the next steps with your fellow players. 
Build with foresight. Only together can you be strong.
On your turn, you carry out the following steps in this order:
1. You may exchange columns with the camp.
2. You reveal a construction plan card.
3. You build as speciﬁ ed by the revealed construction plan card.
4. You replenish your columns to their full number
1. Exchange columns with the camp 
You may take as many columns from the camp as you like. In exchange, put the same number of 
your columns back into the camp.
2. Reveal a construction plan card
You may choose freely from which of the three piles of construction plan cards you draw a card.
3. Build
Always put the columns on color-matching bases. There are ﬁ ve types of construction plan cards:
Reveal the top card of the pile you have 
chosen. Consider that the construction plan 
cards – from the blue to the yellow and 
then to the red glyphs – increase in difﬁ -
culty and that you might not be able to 
solve them yet, especially at the begin-
ning of the game.
Therefore, choose the pile carefully.
The construction plan cards with red 
glyphs are mainly difﬁ cult.
The pile with yellow glyphs consists 
of construction plan cards of medium 
difﬁ culty.
The pile with blue glyphs 
contains mostly easy-to-solve 
construction plan cards.
Place one, two, three, or four 
columns on matching bases of 
any temple ﬂ oors in the tower.
Choose one temple ﬂ oor of 
the tower. Place two or three 
 columns on matching bases here.
Move columns. Take 
one, two or three 
 columns out of the 
tower, move them to any 
higher level and place 
them on matching empty 
bases there. You may 
move freestanding or 
overbuilt columns. 
A column already 
 moved may not be 
 moved again on the 
same turn.
Place as many columns 
on a single temple 
ﬂ oor as necessary to 
occupy all bases on this ﬂ oor. This 
 construction plan card always 
triggers the placement of a new 
temple ﬂ oor (see p. 13).
Move a (built-in) 
temple ﬂ oor one or 
more levels (up or 
down). If the temple ﬂ oor already 
has columns on it, you have to 
move these along with that ﬂ oor. 
If, in doing so, the columns fall 
over, you have not fulﬁ lled the 
 construction plan card.

 Each column is placed on a color-matching base. 
It should not protrude beyond the outline of 
this base.
 Columns can also be placed 
simultaneously.
 You may also place columns on 
empty bases that have already been 
overbuilt by a temple ﬂ oor. 
 Shove the column carefully between 
the temple ﬂ oors.
 Fulﬁ lled construction plan 
cards are put on a discard pile.
or-matching base.
nd the outline of 
en
een
You can‘t 
 fulfill the 
construction 
plan card?
If you cannot completely fulﬁ ll a 
 construction plan card, it becomes an additional 
level card. Add it face down to the row of level cards.
This increases the number of levels that the temple has to consist of at the end of the 
game by one more level.
This also applies if you try to place a column and realize that you can‘t without causing the tower to 
collapse. (Put this column back into your supply.)
Every time you add a construction plan card to the row of level cards, you may exchange the 
entire camp. First draw six new columns; then throw the previous columns back into the cloth bag.
This ends your turn.
If you have placed or moved columns or temple ﬂ oors during your failed attempt at fulﬁ lling the 
construction plan card, these stay in place. Don‘t undo anything. If any columns have fallen over, 
set them up again in the same place.
Example:
Up to now, your temple 
was supposed to 
 eventually be three levels 
high. But since one of the 
construction plan cards 
could not be fulﬁ lled, this 
card is added to the row 
of level cards. Your temple 
now has to be built one 
level higher.
temple base
3 levels
unfulﬁ lled 
construction 
plan card
becomes the new level card
up to now, three level cards
4 levels!
✘
free column 
base

Every time you place a column on the last free base of a temple ﬂ oor, you immediately 
 interrupt the execution of your construction plan card. You must place a new temple ﬂ oor. This can 
happen several times during the same game turn. After that, you resume the execution of your 
construction plan card.
 Take the top temple ﬂ oor from the quarry.
 Now add the temple ﬂ oor to the temple. You can build it on columns or extend the temple 
base.
• If you build it on columns, you should cover at least three free columns (for stability). You 
can freely choose the columns on which you place the temple ﬂ oor.
• If you extend the temple base, the new temple ﬂ oor has to touch the (previous) temple base at 
two points at least 
. 
 If you still have to place columns after building a temple ﬂ oor, you may place these also on 
newly built temple ﬂ oors.
Place a new temple floor
The temple base consists 
 of three temple ﬂ oors
w temple floor
The temple b
 of three t
e 
The 1st level consists of 
three temple ﬂ oors
The 2nd level consists 
of three temple ﬂ oors
The 3rd level consists 
of two temple ﬂ oors
Example:
Only temple ﬂ oors 
that are sitting 
on columns are 
 considered levels! The 
three temple ﬂ oors of 
the temple base don‘t 
count as a level! One 
level can consist of 
 several temple ﬂ oors.
 Have a close look at the current construction plan card:
If it has an orange-brown rim (with a light and a dark face), you may choose freely 
whether the light or the dark side of the temple ﬂ oor is to be facing up.
If the construction plan card has a light rim (with two light faces), you have to turn 
the light side of the temple ﬂ oor face up.
If it has a dark rim, use the dark side of the temple ﬂ oor.
Temple ﬂ oor
as an extension of 
the temple base
ding a temple ﬂoor you may place these also on
Temple ﬂ oor
as an extension of 
the temple base
Attention:
Even if you extend the temple base, the 
number of levels that the temple has to con-
sist of at the end of the game increases by 
one more level. To indicate this, add your 
construction plan card face down to the 
row of level cards at the end of your turn.

4. Replenish columns
At the end of your turn, draw as many columns out of the cloth bag as you just placed.
The temple collapses
Have you won or lost?
END OF THE GAME
The game ends either if the temple collapses (see above) or:
Attention:
The game does not end unless one of the three above-mentioned conditions has been fulﬁ lled – 
even if the height of your temple exceeds the number of laid-out level cards. That means you haven‘t 
won yet even if your temple is high enough at the moment, since this might be quite different by 
the actual end of the game …
 if a player can no longer replenish his columns to their full number at the end of his game turn.
 You win together if your temple now is high enough:
In other words, the number of levels is equal to or higher than the number of the laid-out 
level cards. 
 If some temple ﬂ oors have collapsed, but the temple still consists of the number of levels 
 required, you have built wisely and stably. In this case, you win as well.
 If the temple does not have the number of levels required at the end of the game, you lose. 
This even applies if the temple has not collapsed.
If any temple ﬂ oors collapse, the game ends immediately. The game ends also if any columns fall 
over and then can‘t be put back on their previous place.
 if you have made use of the last construction plan card.
 if you have placed the last temple ﬂ oor (it doesn‘t have to be ﬁ lled with columns any more).

TIPS FOR THE FIRST GAME
TIPS & TRICKS
 Before the very ﬁ rst game of MENARA, it is advisable simply to build a tower without using the 
construction plan cards. Just observe the rules for placing the columns and building the temple 
ﬂ oors. This way, you get a feel for the architecture of the temple of MENARA.
 After that, look at the construction plan cards in order to get an idea of what kinds of tasks 
exist in which pile.
 Lay out the three temple ﬂ oors of the temple base as broadly as possible (nevertheless, all ﬂ oors 
need to touch at two points).
 Always keep an eye on the free bases of the entire temple tower and on their colors.
 Also pay attention to the colors in the camp as well as those of the other players.
 Consider carefully whether you take an easy, medium or difﬁ cult construction plan card. Your 
decision should also depend on what tasks have already been put on the discard pile.
 Try to fulﬁ ll as many difﬁ cult construction plan cards as possible at an early stage of the 
game. When the tower is very high, difﬁ cult construction plan cards sometimes turn out to be 
disastrous.
 Check carefully on each turn which columns support the temple ﬂ oor on which you want to place 
new columns. Will they be able to carry the weight of the new columns? And when you build in a 
new temple ﬂ oor, check where its column bases are in relation to the columns on which you 
are going to place the temple ﬂ oor.
 Talk to each other! MENARA is a cooperative game. Often, it is necessary to plan several turns 
ahead. Only together can you act wisely enough to resurrect the ancient temple in new splendor.
 If you are already experienced MENARA players, you can try to build higher and higher temple 
towers. Can you manage to build the tenth level?
4x
4x

© 2018 Zoch Verlag
Werkstraße 1
D-90765 Fürth
www.zoch-verlag.com
Author: Oliver Richtberg
Illustrations: Sébastien Caiveau
Layout: Oliver Richtberg
Art.Nr.: 60 110 5101
English translation: 
Sybille & Bruce Whitehill, „Word for Wort“
With thanks to:
Miriam Paustian
Markus Müller
Marty exchanges two yellow columns with a red and a blue one from the 
camp. After that, he draws the task of placing three columns.
On the advice of her fellow players, Melanie does not exchange any co-
lumns with the camp. She draws a red construction plan card that requires 
the placement of three columns on the same temple ﬂ oor. Unfortunately, 
she can‘t do this. Consequently, she has to add the card face down to the 
row of level cards. Then she draws six new columns from the cloth bag in 
exchange for the columns of the camp. Now the temple has to be 5 levels 
high instead of 4.
Miriam is lucky. After also forgoing an exchange with the camp, she draws 
a blue card that requires the placement of only two columns. First she 
places the yellow column on the top temple ﬂ oor, which completes this 
ﬂ oor. Therefore, she takes a new temple ﬂ oor from the quarry and builds it 
in. The construction plan card indicates the dark side should be facing up. 
Miriam places the second column on the newly built 
temple ﬂ oor on the new level. After she has drawn two new 
columns out of the cloth bag, her turn ends.
Michael exchanges columns with the camp. He draws the task to place two columns on 
the same temple ﬂ oor. He succeeds and, with this, ﬁ lls the top level. With the placement 
of a new temple ﬂ oor, the tower now contains ﬁ ve levels. Consequently, the players have a 
chance to win the game, provided that the number of level cards won‘t exceed the number 
of temple levels at the end of the game.
Marty decides to place a red, a yellow, and a blue column. He is successful. 
Then he draws two new columns and ends his turn.
Overview:
When is a construction plan card added 
to a level card and thus to the row of 
level cards?
 When the task of a construction plan card is 
not or only partially fulﬁ lled.
 When a temple ﬂ oor is added to the temple 
base.
A Detailed Example
 
When are columns exchanged with the 
camp?
 Directly before the construction plan 
card is drawn (in exchange for the same 
 number of your own columns).
 Out of the cloth bag when the construc-
tion plan card has not been fulﬁ lled.