™

™
BEGIN TRANSMISSION.
AUTHORIZATION: A1JDK-5632
MESSAGE: Cluster 5632 requesting removal of Rastur sanction protocols and immediate 
construction of galactic base. Rebuilding of war-torn sectors has begun. 
Whereabouts of friendly civilizations unknown. Need aid in establishing 
trade routes between isolated cultures. Repeat: Rastur invasion has been 
put down. Cluster is ready for trade.
END TRANSMISSION.
G’Ranoc finishes reading the communiqué and turns to the Trade Guild 
Overseer who stands staring out of the port side observation deck, hands 
behind his back. He is silent until the nearby telegate suddenly comes 
to life, allowing what appears to be a Dell cruiser to jump from the far 
reaches of space to the Galactic Trade Hub.
After a small sigh, the TGO turns and speaks.
“G’Ranoc, you are immediately promoted. Galactic Base 1013 has been 
recommissioned. Take control of her and start repairing the damage those blasted 
Rastur caused in Cluster 5632. We don’t have many supplies so the merchants you 
take there will have to be self-sufficient. Humans are adaptable. You will need the Whynoms 
for quick construction and Eeepeeep to deal with technological problems. Finally, the Qossuth could be useful in 
case of a Rastur resurgence. Invite a merchant from each race and suggest they spur trade activity in Cluster 5632. 
Tell them there are credits to be made!”
Game Overview
Merchant of Venus is a game of interstellar trade and 
exploration for one to four players. Each player represents 
a fledgling merchant eager to make a name for himself by 
exploring a galactic cluster recently opened for trade after a 
devastating alien attack.
Each player begins the game with a merchant ship and a 
gung-ho pilot fresh from the Academy. It is up to each player 
to find the most profitable trade routes in 
order to deliver goods, transport passengers, 
build spaceports, mine asteroids, and acquire 
fame by completing missions and 
upgrading their ship.
Let the best merchant win!
Object of the Game
The object of the game is to be the player with the most 
credits (money) at the end of the game.
Two Games in One box!
This edition of Merchant of Venus contains two 
distinct games. The first game, hereafter referred to as 
the standard game, is a redeveloped and reimagined 
version of the original Merchant of Venus.
The second game, hereafter referred to as the classic 
game, is our implementation of Richard Hamblen’s 
original game design.
This rulebook contains the rules for the standard game. 

Component List
This comprehensive list includes all the components found 
in the game box, including components used only in the 
classic game.
•	 Standard Game Rulebook
•	 Classic Game Rulebook
•	 4 Plastic Merchant Ships
•	 4 Plastic Ship Stands
•	 8 Plastic Dial Connectors
•	 1 Double-Sided Game Board
•	 4 Dashboard Sheets
•	 8 Ship Class Sheets
•	 42 Encounter Cards
•	 78 Small Cards, including:
-- 10 Challenge Cards
-- 14 First Contact Cards
-- 1 First Player Card
-- 20 Mission Cards
-- 8 Pilot Cards
-- 25 Reward Cards
•	 12 Blue Dot/Asteroid Tokens 
•	 8 Cargo Hold Tokens
•	 103 Credit Tokens
•	 38 Demand Tokens
•	 6 Drive Tokens
•	 35 Encounter Tokens, including:
-- 17 Hazard Tokens
-- 9 Relic Tokens
-- 6 Telegate Tokens
-- 3 Neutral Spaceport Tokens
•	 14 Factory Goods Tokens
•	 14 Factory Deed Tokens
•	 24 Spaceport Deed Tokens
•	 25 Fame/Infamy Tokens
•	 76 Goods Tokens
•	 42 Market Tokens
•	 14 Culture Tokens
•	 8 Mission Tokens
•	 15 Passenger Tokens
•	 8 Pirate Tokens
•	 2 Production Tokens
•	 34 Racial Technology Tokens
•	 8 Dial Pointers
•	 8 Dial Washers
•	 1 Round Marker
•	 8 Shield Tokens
•	 48 Merchant Spaceport/Drill Tokens
•	 5 Six-Sided Dice, including:
-- 4 White Speed Dice
-- 1 Purple Effect Die
Component Overview
The following entries describe the components used in 
the standard game of Merchant of Venus. Components not 
described in this section are used only in the classic game 
and are described in the classic game rulebook. 
Merchant Ships
These plastic ships represent the 
trade vessels each player controls 
on the game board. 
Game Board
The double-sided game board 
depicts an unexplored galactic 
cluster ripe for trade. One side is 
used for the standard game and 
the other for the classic game.
Dashboard 
Sheets
These sheets represent the controls of 
each player’s merchant ship. 
Encounter Cards
These cards represent the various fortunes 
and follies that can befall a player during 
his travels through the cluster.
First Contact 
These cards represent the cultures of the 
galactic cluster.
Mission Cards
These cards represent the various missions a 
player can undertake to receive Reward 
cards and increase his fame. 
Pilot Cards
These cards represent the skills and abilities 
of each ship’s pilot. 
Reward Cards
Players receive these cards for completing 
missions and defeating pirates. 

First Player Card
This card indicates who is the first player.
Challenge 
These cards represent the goals and 
challenges faced by the player of the 
solo challenge game variant.
Blue Dot/ 
Asteroid Tokens
Players place these tokens on the board after 
resolving certain encounters.
Cargo Hold Indicator 
These tokens indicate a player has 
purchased an additional cargo hold. 
Credit Tokens
These tokens are the currency of 
Merchant of Venus. 
Drive Tokens
These tokens represent the latest 
in space travel technology 
allowing ships to move faster.
Fame/Infamy 
These double-sided tokens represent the 
prestige or notoriety of a merchant. 
Goods Tokens
These tokens represent the 
commodities that are traded 
throughout the cluster.
 
Market Tokens
These tokens represent a culture’s market 
conditions and the equipment sold by 
that culture.
Mission Tokens
These tokens mark the destination of a 
player’s mission.
Passenger 
Passenger tokens represent Very Important 
Aliens who need transportation from one 
location to another.
Pirate Tokens
These tokens represent space pirates out to 
rob players of their hard-earned credits.
Production 
These tokens are used to mark production rounds on the 
round track during the epic game variant.
Racial Technology 
These tokens represent various ship upgrades 
and technologies that players can purchase to 
gain abilities.
Round Marker
This token marks the current game round 
on the round track.
Merchant 
Spaceport/ 
Drill Tokens
These double-sided tokens represent player-built spaceports 
or asteroids currently being mined. 
Telegate Tokens
These tokens represent artificial wormholes 
that can provide time-saving, but at times 
unpredictable, shortcuts through the cluster.
Dice
There are four white speed dice and one 
purple effect die. The players roll the speed 
dice to move their ship and to assign to ship 
abilities; they roll the purple effect die to 
determine other effects.

the Galactic 
cluster
The board depicts the large and diverse galactic cluster 5632 
where players seek to make their mercantile fortunes. This 
section describes the various elements of the board in detail.
Spaces
The primary features of the board are the interconnected 
spaces on which players’ spaceships move through the 
cluster. Each type of space is illustrated below (their 
individual effects are described later):
 
Systems and routes
The galactic cluster consists of 14 systems each connected 
by one or more trade routes. 
A system is defined as all spaces connected by a contiguous 
solid line (gray or green) and a market. 
1.	 System
2.	 System Name
3.	 Market
Blue Space
Yellow Space
Red Space
Laser Hazard
Shield Hazard
Piloting Hazard
Asteroid
Encounter
Orbit Space
Surface City
Dashboard Assembly
Each dashboard sheet has two resource dials that 
require assembly. Attach the resource arrows to the 
dashboard sheets by following the steps below.
1.	 Push one side of a plastic connector through the 
back of one of the holes in the dashboard sheet.
2.	 Attach one of the dial arrows of the corresponding 
color to this connector on the front of the 
3.	 Attach one of the dial washers of the 
corresponding color on top of the resource arrow.
4.	 Press the other half of the plastic connector to 
hold the arrow and washer in place as tightly 
as possible.
Repeat this process for both dials on each dashboard 
sheet.
Merchant Ship 
Assembly
Attach each merchant ship to its 
base as shown in the diagram to 
the right.

Trade routes are consecutive spaces connected by dashed 
lines. They constitute the paths players use to travel from 
one system to another. 
Trade Route
If a space is connected to both a solid and a dashed line, the 
space is considered part of the connected system.
The Asteroid System
The Asteroid System is composed of a web rather than an 
elliptical path of spaces. These spaces, being connected 
by contiguous solid lines, are all considered part of the 
Asteroid System, including the two orbit spaces at either end 
of the system. 
Anomalies
The Supernova and the Supergiant anomalies are not 
systems, and the spaces surrounding them (being connected 
by dashed lines) are trade routes. As these anomalies are the 
destinations of two missions, they both have a name and a 
mission token area.
Supernova
Supergiant
Markets
Each system contains a market composed of several different 
areas, indicated below: 
1.	 Market Token Area 
2.	 Racial Technology Area
3.	 Goods Token Area 
4.	 Mission Token Area
Galactic Base is not a system but acts as 
a neutral spaceport where players can 
upgrade their pilots, purchase unwanted 
Reward cards, purchase a second 
mission, and deliver/pick up certain 
passengers (rules for pilots, rewards, 
and passengers are discussed later). Galactic Base also acts as 
the starting space for players at the beginning of the game.
Setup
To prepare a standard game of Merchant of Venus, carefully 
follow the steps below.
1.	 Remove Classic Game Components: Return all of the 
following components to the game box: encounter 
tokens, culture tokens, demand tokens, spaceport and 
factory deed markers, factory goods tokens, shield tokens, 
and ship class sheets. These components are not used 
in the standard game (see “Removing Classic Game 
Components” on page 36 for a visual guide).
2.	 Place Game Board: Unfold the board and place it 
centrally on the table, ensuring the “Standard Game” 
side (see lower left corner) is faceup.
3.	 Prepare Cluster: Shuffle the First Contact cards. Then 
place one First Contact card facedown in each system 
on the board.
4.	 Prepare Culture Supply Areas: Separate the market 
tokens, goods tokens, and racial technology tokens. 
Then group the tokens by culture next to each culture’s 
supply area to the left side of the board.

Culture Identifiers
Each culture is identified by a symbol and 
a number. For example, the graphic to the 
right represents the Zum culture.
5.	 Prepare Decks: Shuffle the Encounter, Reward, and 
Mission decks. Then place these decks separately 
facedown near the board.
6.	 Prepare Token Stockpiles: Sort the blue dot/asteroid 
tokens, cargo hold tokens, drive tokens, fame/infamy 
tokens, pirate tokens, and telegate tokens by type 
and place them in stockpiles near the board. Shuffle 
all passenger tokens and place them facedown in a 
stockpile near the board.
Setup Diagram
1.	 Board
2.	 First Contact Card
3.	 Culture Supply Areas
4.	 Encounter Deck
5.	 Reward Deck
6.	 Mission Deck
7.	 Blue Dot/Asteroid 
8.	 Cargo Hold Indicator 
9.	 Drive Tokens
10.	Fame/Infamy Tokens
11.	Pirate Tokens
12.	Telegate Tokens
13.	Dashboard Sheet
14.	Mission Tokens
15.	Merchant Spaceport/
Drill Tokens
16.	Merchant Ships
17.	Pilot Card
18.	Mission Card
19.	Bank
20.	Passenger Tokens
21.	First Player Card
22.	Round Marker
23.	Round Track
Orange Player’s Play Area
Red Player’s Play Area
Green Player’s Play Area
White Player’s Play Area

7.	 Select a Player Color: Each player chooses one 
available color and takes the dashboard sheet, mission 
tokens, merchant spaceport/drill tokens, and plastic 
merchant ship corresponding to that color.
8.	 Select Pilot: Merchant of Venus offers four pilots, each 
associated with a culture: Human, Eeepeeep (or “Eeep” 
singular), Whynom, and Qossuth (these are also referred 
to as pilot home cultures). Each player chooses one of 
the pilots (if players cannot agree, choose randomly) by 
taking the two corresponding Pilot cards and placing the 
level 1 pilot (see “Pilot Card Anatomy” on page 26) 
faceup on the Pilot card space of his dashboard sheet 
(see “Dashboard Sheet Anatomy” on page 9).
9.	 Distribute Mission Cards: Deal one faceup Mission 
card to each player. If a player’s Mission card has a 
destination, he places his mission token in that system on 
the board (see “Missions” on page 27).
10.	Determine First Player: Randomly select a player. That 
player receives the First Player card and is hereafter 
called the first player. 
11.	Prepare the Bank and Starting Funds: Sort the credit 
tokens into piles by denomination and place them near 
the board. Give each player an amount of credits equal to 
the number of players multiplied by 20. Then, counting 
clockwise from the first player, give the third player an 
extra c20 and the fourth player an extra c40.
12.	Set Laser and Shield Values: Each player chooses either 
his laser or shield dial. He sets that dial to “2,” then sets 
the other dial to “1.”
13.	Place Round Marker: Place the round 
marker on the “1” space of the round track.
14.	Place First Passenger: Draw one passenger 
token from the passenger stockpile and place the token 
on its specified starting location (see “Passenger Token 
Anatomy” on page 17).
15.	Place Merchant Ships: Each player places his merchant 
ship on the Galactic Base space on the board.
Players are now ready to begin their business venture!
Playing the Game
Merchant of Venus is played over a series of game rounds. 
In each game round, players take turns exploring the 
galactic cluster, buying and selling goods, and upgrading 
their ships. The game is played for 30 game rounds, after 
which each player counts his assets and the player with the 
most credits is declared the winner.
Beginning a New Round
Each new game round (with the exception of the first round) 
begins with the first player advancing the round marker one 
space on the game round track and resolving the effect of 
the game round’s corresponding icon:
Passenger Icon: The first player randomly draws a 
passenger token from the stockpile and places it on 
its starting culture as indicated on the passenger 
token (see “Passenger Token Anatomy” on page 17). If the 
passenger’s starting culture has not yet been discovered, he 
places the token in the corresponding culture’s supply area 
to the left of the board.
Drill Icon: Each player retrieves any drill tokens 
he has placed on the board and redeems them for 
credits (see “Drills” on page 25).
Player Turns
After the first player advances the round token, the game 
proceeds to player turns. During each game round, every 
player takes one turn, starting with the first player and 
proceeding clockwise. 
A player’s turn consists of four phases, performed in the 
following order:
1.	 Movement Phase
2.	 First Contact Phase
3.	 Transaction Phase
4.	 Merchant Spaceport Phase
After a player completes his Merchant Spaceport phase, his 
turn ends and the next player’s turn begins. After the last 
player finishes his turn, players begin a new game round.
Movement Phase
A player’s Movement phase consists of four steps, 
performed in the following order:
1.	 Declare Heading
2.	 Set Speed
3.	 Move
4.	 End Movement
A player may choose to skip his Movement phase to remain 
on his ship’s current space and end his turn. If a player skips 
his Movement phase while on a surface city or spaceport, 
however, his turn proceeds directly to the Transaction phase 
instead (see “Transaction Phase” on page 12).
1. Declare Heading
If, at the start of the Movement phase, the current player’s 
ship is on any space other than a surface city or spaceport, he 
must declare his heading by pointing his ship in the direction 
he wishes to travel (along a path connected to his current 
space). If he fails to declare a heading before rolling his 
speed dice, he must move along the path in the direction his 
ship currently faces.
If the current player begins his Movement phase on a 
surface city or spaceport, he may skip this step and proceed 
to his Set Speed step.

2. Set Speed
After the current player declares his heading, he rolls three 
speed dice and totals the results. This sum is his movement 
value representing the maximum number of movement 
points he can spend to move his ship during his Move step. 
After rolling, the current player may be eligible to assign 
one of his rolled dice to his ship’s throttle to roll an 
additional speed die (see “Assigning Dice” on page 10). 
After a player rolls his speed dice, he is committed to 
moving his ship and must proceed to the Move step.
3. Move
After the current player sets his speed, he spends his 
movement value to move through the galactic cluster along 
his current path (in the direction he set in the Declare Heading 
step). Moving from one space to the next along a gray (solid 
or dashed) line costs him one movement point, while moving 
along a solid green line costs him two movement points.
During this step, the current player can come across 
telegates, navigation spaces, hazards, pirates, and other 
surprises that can divert, interrupt, or even end his 
Movement phase. The finer points of moving through the 
galaxy are found in “Bumps Along the Way” on page 20.
4. End Movement
The current player ends his Movement phase by either 
landing his ship or by spending his entire movement value.
A player may only land on a surface city, spaceport, or 
asteroid. If a player lands his ship on a surface city or a 
spaceport, his Movement phase ends and his turn proceeds 
to the First Contact phase (see “First Contact Phase” on 
page 11). If he lands his ship on an asteroid, his turn 
immediately ends.
If a player chooses not to land his ship, or if he is not 
stopped by other game effects, he must spend his entire 
movement value. After spending his last movement point, 
his turn immediately ends.
Additional 
Movement Rules
Players should observe the following additional rules during 
the Movement phase:
•	 A player can never roll more than four speed dice during 
his turn, even if certain combinations of abilities say that 
he may.
•	 Ships can move past one another without movement 
penalty.
•	 Multiple ships can occupy the same space.
•	 After a ship departs from a space, it cannot immediately 
turn around and return to that space. That is, a player 
cannot backtrack during his Move step.
Dashboard Sheet Anatomy
1.	 Laser Value Dial
2.	 Shield Value Dial
3.	 Pilot Card Space
4.	 Drive Token Space
5.	 Navigation Die Box
6.	 Throttle Die Box
7.	 Ship Upgrade Slot
8.	 Ship Upgrade Die Box
9.	 Cargo Hold Indicator
10.	Cargo Holds
11.	Fuzzy Dice Indicator
Component Limitations
If players run out of credit tokens, blue dot/asteroid 
tokens, or fame/infamy tokens, please use suitable 
substitutes (such as pennies, beads, etc.) to supplement 
those provided. All other component types in the 
standard game are limited to the amounts included 
in the box.

Assigning Dice
In order to use certain abilities, a player must assign dice to 
boxes on his dashboard sheet. To do so, he simply takes any 
of his rolled speed dice and places them in the appropriate 
spaces of his dashboard sheet. A player can only assign dice 
during his Movement phase, and only dice rolled during his 
Set Speed step can be assigned.
A speed die always contributes its result to a player’s 
movement value, even while assigned to an ability. Players 
cannot change the value of a die when assigning it.
The number of dice a player can assign is equal to that of 
his pilot’s level (see “Pilot Card Anatomy” on page 26). 
For example, a player with a level 1 pilot can assign one die 
and a player with a level 3 pilot can assign three dice every 
Movement phase.
After a player assigns a die to his dashboard sheet, that die 
cannot be reassigned to another ability, or removed, for the 
rest of his turn.
Under no circumstances can a player assign more than one 
die to a single die box on his dashboard sheet.
All ships begin with two abilities that may be assigned dice 
during the Movement phase: navigation and throttle. In 
addition, many racial technologies require an assigned die 
to function.
Navigation
Assigning a die to navigation determines how a 
player’s ship moves through a navigation space (see 
“Navigation Spaces” on page 20) or a telegate 
(see “Telegates” on page 21).
To assign a die to navigation, the current player places 
one of his rolled speed dice on the navigation die box of 
his dashboard sheet. The value of this assigned die is his 
navigation value for that turn.
Throttle
If any of the current player’s rolled speed dice show 
a result of 1, the current player may assign that die 
to his throttle die box to roll one additional speed 
die. The sum of the four rolled speed dice is his movement 
value for that turn.
The orange player wishes to move to the Jungle World 
but wants to avoid the piloting hazard.
1.	 At the start of his Movement phase, he declares a 
heading by rotating his ship to face the direction he 
wishes to move.
2.	 Next he rolls three speed dice with results of 6, 3, 
and 2 for a movement value of 11––just enough to 
reach the Jungle World.
3.	 To move through the navigation space, he assigns 
a die to navigation by placing the 2-result die on 
the navigation die box of his dashboard sheet (see 
“Navigation Spaces” on page 20).
Reminder: Moving along a green line costs two 
movement points (such as between the orbit space and 
the surface city in this example).
= 11
Movement Example

Ship Upgrades
Some racial technologies require an assigned speed 
die to function. These are called ship upgrades 
(see “Ship Upgrades” on page 15) and are 
distinguished by the icon to the left. 
To assign a die to a ship upgrade, the current player places 
one of his rolled speed dice on the die box next to the 
upgrade he wants to use.
First Contact Phase
At the beginning of each Merchant of Venus game, every 
system is unexplored and each culture’s location in the 
cluster is unknown. Undiscovered cultures are represented 
by a facedown First Contact card. 
If the current player ends his Movement phase on a surface 
city or neutral spaceport of a system containing a First 
Contact card, he takes the following steps:
1.	 He flips the First Contact card faceup, revealing which 
culture inhabits this system.
2.	 He takes the revealed culture’s 
market tokens (there are three 
market tokens for each culture), 
shuffles them facedown, and places 
them in a faceup stack on that 
system’s market token space. If there are any passenger 
tokens in this culture’s supply area, he places them near 
the system’s market token area.
3.	 He places the revealed culture’s goods tokens and racial 
technology tokens in their respective spaces with their 
cost values faceup.
4.	 He takes the First Contact card and takes an amount of 
credits equal to the culture’s IOU value from the bank, 
placing the credits on top of the card (see “Using First 
Contact Credits” on page 15).
5.	 He may then immediately take up to three buy actions 
and up to three sell actions with that culture (see “Buy 
Actions” on page 12).
The culture is now open for trade with any player who lands 
in its system, including the player who just discovered it.
First Contact Card 
Anatomy
2.	 Culture Identifier
3.	 IOU Value
4.	 Flavor Text
1.	 The green player wants to reach the Colony World 
from Galactic Base. As shown in the diagram 
above, he needs a movement value of at least 9 to 
reach one of its surface cities. 
 
He rolls his speed dice with results of 4, 2, and 1, 
giving him a movement value of 7. 
 
 
= 7
 
2.	 Since one of the dice shows a result of 1, the 
player can assign it to the throttle die box on his 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.	 Assigning a die to throttle allows the player to 
roll a fourth speed die. Rolling this die results in 
a 5, giving the player a total movement value of 
12, enough to reach either surface city on the 
Colony World. 
 
= 12
Throttling Example

Transaction Phase
A player at a surface city or spaceport may trade with the 
system’s culture during his Transaction phase. This includes 
buying goods, equipment, and racial technologies from 
the culture, as well as selling goods to the culture and 
transporting passengers to and from the system.
A player may perform the following actions during his 
Transaction phase:
•	 Buy
•	 Sell
•	 Pick Up a Passenger
•	 Drop Off a Passenger
There is no limit to the number of such actions a player 
may take during his Transaction phase, and he may take the 
actions in any order.
Important Exception: If the current player lands on a 
system’s surface city during the Movement phase of the 
same turn, he can perform only one buy action and one 
sell action in the subsequent Transaction phase. He may still 
pick up or drop off an unlimited number of passengers. This 
limitation does not apply to spaceports.
Note: The Nebula Habitat, the Asteroid System, and the 
Multi-Generational Ship do not have surface cities. Instead, 
these systems have spaceports on which a player must land 
in order to conduct his Transaction phase.
Buy Actions
When trading, the current player may perform a buy action 
to purchase one of the following from the system’s culture:
•	 Goods
•	 Piece of Equipment
•	 Racial Technology
Each purchase type is described in detail below.
Buying Goods
Each culture sells one type of good, represented by the 
goods tokens in its system’s market.
To buy a good, a player pays an amount of credits to the 
bank equal to the good’s cost (see “Goods Token Anatomy” 
on page 13). He then takes the goods token from the 
culture’s market, placing it in an eligible cargo hold below 
his dashboard sheet (see “Capacity” on page 24). 
Goods and Technology Tokens
When buying goods and racial technologies from 
a culture, players are not restricted to those tokens 
found on the top of their respective stacks, and may 
purchase any of the goods and technology tokens 
in that system (players can look at the back of any 
goods or technology token at any time).
1.	 The green player is first to land on the surface city of 
the Trapped Rogue Planet. He flips its First Contact 
card faceup, revealing the Volois culture.
2.	 He then takes the Volois market tokens from the 
Volois supply area, shuffles the tokens, and places 
them in a faceup stack in the market token area.
3.	 Next he takes all of the Volois goods tokens, placing 
them in the goods token space.
4.	 He then takes the Volois racial technology tokens 
and places them in the racial technology space.
5.	 Finally, he takes Volois First Contact card, placing 
c120 on it. He may now immediately take up to 
three buy actions and three sell actions.
First Contact Example

After purchasing a goods token, it is 
placed in an available cargo hold.
If the current player has no cargo hold space, he cannot 
buy goods unless he makes room in his ship (see “Making 
Room in a Ship” on page 25). 
Example: The red player lands on a surface city of the 
Jungle World where the Nillis reside. Because he just 
landed, he may only perform one buy action and one 
sell action. He does not have enough credits to make 
a purchase, so he decides to take his sell action first 
to raise some funds.
First he sells one Designer Genes token for c120, 
constituting his sell action for this Transaction phase.
Then he purchases one Bionic Perfume goods 
token for c80, constituting his buy action for this 
Transaction phase. He places the Bionic Perfume 
token in an empty cargo hold on his ship.
If the red player skips his next Movement phase, 
remaining on the surface city, he may perform any 
number of buy and sell actions with the Nillis during 
his next Transaction phase.
Buying Equipment
Each culture offers two pieces of equipment for sale as 
indicated by its market token. There are four types of 
equipment: lasers, shields, cargo holds, and drives.
Available Equipment
To buy a piece of equipment, a player pays an amount of 
credits to the bank equal to the equipment’s cost (as printed 
on the culture’s market token).
The following entries describe the various equipment types.
Lasers and Shields
Lasers and shields help players face hazards (see “Hazards” 
on page 22) and pirates (see “Pirates” on page 22). 
Laser
Shield
When a player buys a piece of laser or shield equipment, 
he increases the appropriate dial by one point on his 
Example: A player 
purchases one laser, 
increasing his laser 
dial by one point.
Goods Token Anatomy
2.	 Culture selling this good
3.	 Cost
4.	 Resale values (see “Sell Actions” on page 15)
5.	 Cultures buying this good
6.	 Capacity requirement (see “Capacity” on page 24)
Front
Grades (color) of Goods
The grade of a good or a racial technology is indicated 
by the color of its token. There are three grades of 
goods and racial technologies: basic, premium, 
and luxury. The higher a good’s grade, the more 
expensive it is.
Basic 
c10 - c40
(Copper)
Premium 
c50 - c110
(Silver)
Luxury
c120 - c200
(Gold)

Cargo Holds
Cargo holds store a player’s goods, passengers, and certain 
racial technologies. Each player begins the game with two 
cargo holds (illustrated by the green cargo hold indicators 
on his dashboard sheet) and may purchase two additional 
cargo holds during the course of the game.
Cargo Hold Indicator
After a player buys an additional cargo hold, he places a 
cargo hold indicator token above the leftmost available 
cargo hold on his dashboard sheet. This indicates the 
cargo hold is now available to hold cargo.
Example: The green player 
purchases a cargo hold 
during his Transaction phase. 
To illustrate the acquisition, 
he places a cargo hold 
indicator token above the 
third (being the leftmost 
available) cargo hold.
Drives
Drives help ships move more swiftly around the cluster by 
allowing them to skip certain spaces on the board.
After a player purchases a drive, he places it on the drive 
token space on his dashboard sheet, discarding any 
previous drive on the space. 
There are three kinds of drives: yellow, red, and combo.
•	 The yellow drive allows a player to skip over 
all yellow spaces on the board.
•	 The red drive allows a player to skip over all 
red spaces on the board. 
•	 The combo drive allows a player to skip over 
all red and yellow spaces on the board.
If a player does not wish to use his drive during his Move 
step, he must announce this during the Declare Heading 
step of his Movement phase.
Buying Racial Technologies
Each culture sells one type of racial technology, represented 
by its racial technology tokens. Rules and descriptions for 
each racial technology are found in “Appendix B: Racial 
Technologies” on page 31.
Face
Cost
Ability
Racial Technology Token
To buy a racial technology, the current player pays an 
amount of credits to the bank equal to the cost of the racial 
technology.
After a player acquires a racial technology, he may use 
its ability as described on the back of the token, with the 
exception of ship upgrades, which require the assignment of 
a speed die (see “Ship Upgrades” on page 15).
A player cannot have two or more of the same racial 
technology tokens at the same time (with the exception of 
the Data Probe).
Drive Movement Example
When travelling from a space in the Colony World 
system to the surface city of the Jungle World system, 
the orange player’s red drive allows him to skip three 
red spaces along his path, costing him a total of 8 
movement points instead of 11.

There are four types of racial technologies: ship upgrades, 
utilities, structural techs, and special techs. The following 
entries describe the racial technology types in detail.
Ship Upgrades
When a player buys a ship upgrade tech, he places 
the token to the right of the topmost available ship 
upgrade slot on his dashboard sheet.
In order to use a ship upgrade ability, a player must assign 
a rolled speed die to its corresponding ship upgrade die 
box during his Movement phase (see “Assigning Dice” on 
page 10).
If a player has no available ship upgrade slots on his 
dashboard sheet, he cannot buy another ship upgrade 
unless he makes room in his ship (see “Making Room in a 
Ship” on page 25).
Structural Techs
When a player buys a structural tech, he places its 
token in an eligible cargo hold. 
The icon signifying a structural tech also represents the tech’s 
capacity requirement (one dot) a player needs in order to 
equip the tech on his ship (see “Capacity” on page 24).
If a player has no available room in his cargo holds, he 
cannot buy a structural tech unless he makes room in his 
ship (see “Making Room in a Ship” on page 25).
Special Techs
There are two special techs, each placed in a specific area 
of a player’s dashboard sheet:
Throttle Boost: When a player buys a Throttle Boost, 
he places the token facedown in the throttle die box.
Fuzzy Dice: When a player buys Fuzzy Dice, he 
places the token facedown above his dashboard 
sheet.
Utility Techs
When a player buys a utility tech, he places its 
token to the left of his dashboard sheet. Utility 
techs cannot be jettisoned or offloaded (see 
“Making Room in a Ship” on page 25).
Using First Contact Credits
When buying from a culture, the player who established 
first contact with that culture may use the IOU credits 
placed on the culture’s First Contact card. These credits 
function just as a player’s normal credits, but can only be 
spent with that culture.
Credits remaining on a culture’s First Contact card at the 
end of the game do not count toward a player’s final score.
Sell Actions
For a player to sell goods, his ship must be on a surface city or 
spaceport of a culture that buys that particular type of good. 
The cultures to which a good can be sold are listed on each of 
its goods tokens (see “Goods Token Anatomy” on page 13). 
Example: The Bionic 
Perfume, purchased at the 
Nillis culture (1), can be 
sold at the Volois (2), Graw 
(3), Niks (4), and Dell (5) 
cultures.
When selling goods to a culture, a player must first 
determine the condition of the culture’s market by looking at 
the token currently on top of its market token stack. The 
condition of the market determines which price a player 
receives for selling the eligible goods token to that culture, 
as described below. 
Low Market: The goods token is sold at its lowest 
High Market: The goods token is sold at its highest 
Active Market: The goods token is sold at its center 
The resale values of a goods tokens are listed on its reverse 
side (see “Goods Token Anatomy” on page 13).
When a player sells a good, he receives its resale value in 
credits from the bank. Then he returns the goods token to 
its culture’s supply area at the left side of the board (do 
not return the token to the culture’s market). Each sale of a 
goods token counts as one sell action.
Market Shift
A market shift occurs whenever a player performs at least 
one sell action in a culture’s market. After the current player 
completes all his sell actions, he takes the culture’s top 
market token and places it at the bottom of that culture’s 
market token stack, revealing the next faceup market token.
If a market shift reveals an active market (signified 
by the gear icon shown to the right), that culture 
produces one goods token (see “Market Production” 
on page 24).

Picking Up Passengers
Picking up passengers and dropping them off at their 
destinations is another way for players to earn credits. 
To pick up a passenger, the current player must be at a 
surface city or spaceport of a system containing at least one 
passenger token. During his Transaction phase, he can pick 
up any number of passengers at that culture by placing 
the passenger tokens in eligible cargo holds below his 
Note: Most passenger tokens have a capacity requirement 
of one dot. However, the “Diva” and “Caterer” passenger 
tokens have a capacity requirement of two dots (see 
“Capacity” on page 24).
Dropping Off 
Passengers
To drop off a passenger, the current player must be at a 
surface city or spaceport of the system designated as the 
passenger’s destination. 
First the current player collects the passenger’s fare in 
credits from the bank, along with any fame or infamy tokens 
specified on the passenger token. Then he removes the 
passenger token from play by returning it to the game box.
Note: The icon to the right represents Galactic Base. If it 
appears as the starting location or the destination of 
a passenger token, that passenger either starts on, 
or must be dropped off at, Galactic Base.
End of Transaction Phase
After the current player has completed all the actions of 
his Transaction phase, he continues to the Merchant 
Spaceport phase.
1.	 The green player has decided skip his Movement 
phase during his current turn in order to take 
unlimited buy and sell actions at the surface city. 
 
2.	 The market token at this culture shows a high 
market, allowing the green player to sell his three 
Bionic Perfumes for the top resale value shown 
on the goods tokens. 
3.	 He collects c160 for each token for a total of c480. 
4.	 Because he sold at least one goods token during 
his turn, the green player (after executing any 
remaining sell actions) shifts the market by 
placing the top market token on the bottom of the 
market token stack, revealing the market token 
below––a low market in this case.
Selling Goods Example

 
 
Merchant 
Spaceport Phase
Several systems have spaceports printed on the game board 
at the start of the game. These are called neutral spaceports.
A player can build his own spaceports at systems on an 
empty orbit space. These player-constructed spaceports are 
called merchant spaceports.
Merchant Spaceport
Important: If a player performed one or more buy actions 
during his First Contact phase or his Transaction phase, he 
cannot build a merchant spaceport during that turn.
To build a merchant spaceport in a system, the current 
player must be on one of its surface cities and must pay 
c200 to the bank. After doing so, he places a merchant 
spaceport token of his color on an empty orbit space 
connected by a single green line to the surface city on 
which he is located (see “Building a Merchant Spaceport 
Example” on page 18). Lastly he moves his ship onto the 
new merchant spaceport token and ends his turn.
If there is no empty orbit space adjacent to a surface city, 
no merchant spaceport can be built there.
Note: Merchant spaceports are worth c200 at the end of the 
game, even if they were purchased at a discount (see “Pilot 
Home Culture Discounts” on page 26). 
Trading on Merchant Spaceports
After a merchant spaceport has been built in an orbit space, 
players can no longer move from the space containing the 
merchant spaceport to the connected surface city. If all of a 
system’s orbit spaces contain merchant spaceports, players 
can no longer access that system’s surface cities and instead 
must conduct their Transaction phases on the system’s 
merchant spaceports. 
In addition to the normal rules for buy and sell actions, 
a player that conducts a buy or sell action at a merchant 
spaceport must pay the spaceport’s owner c10 for each buy 
or sell action. If the current player is unable to pay the c10 fee 
after the transaction, he cannot make the buy or sell action.
For each buy or sell action the current player conducts at 
his own merchant spaceport, he receives c10 from the bank 
instead of paying a fee.
Example: The red player conducts a sell action with 
the Qossuth culture at a merchant spaceport owned 
by the green player. The red player moves a Pedigree 
Bolts goods token from his cargo hold to the Qossuth 
culture supply area. He receives c300 from the bank, 
after which he pays c10 to the green player. 
Passenger Token 
Anatomy
1.	 Passenger Title
2.	 Starting Location
3.	 Destination
4.	 Fare
5.	 Capacity 
Requirement
6.	 Fame/Infamy
7.	 Passenger Icon
1.	 Culture Name
2.	 Culture Identifier
3.	 Market Condition Icon
4.	 Available Equipment
Front
Market Token Anatomy
Spending Credits
When a player spends, or is asked to pay, credits, 
he simply takes a sufficient amount of available 
credit tokens from his play area and returns them 
to the bank (unless he is making payments to 
another player). Change may be made at the bank 
at any time (i.e. players may break large credit 
denominations into smaller ones).

Merchant Spaceports 
in the Asteroid System
To build a merchant spaceport in the Asteroid System, 
the current player must be located on one of the system’s 
neutral spaceports. After paying c200 to the bank, he places 
one of his merchant spaceport tokens on the orbit space 
connected to the neutral spaceport by three contiguous 
green lines. Then he moves his ship to the orbit space 
containing his new merchant spaceport and ends his turn. 
After a merchant spaceport is built in the Asteroid System, 
it bankrupts the connected neutral spaceport. To signify 
this, place an asteroid token on top of the bankrupt 
neutral spaceport. 
End of the Merchant 
Spaceport Phase
After the current player has built a merchant spaceport, or 
chosen not to, his turn is over. A player cannot build more 
than one merchant spaceport during a single turn.
Ending a Turn
A player’s turn ends when any of the following occurs:
•	 He finishes his Merchant Spaceport phase.
•	 He fails a hazard check. 
•	 An Encounter card effect ends his turn.
•	 He ends his Move step (or skips his Movement phase) on 
any space other than a spaceport or a surface city.
When a player’s turn is over, the player to his left begins 
his turn. When the last player ends his turn, a new game 
round begins.
End of the Game
When the last player ends his turn in round 30, the game 
ends. Each player then determines his final score by taking 
the following steps:
1.	 Sell Merchant Spaceports: Each player removes all his 
merchant spaceports from the board, collecting c200 
from the bank for each spaceport he removes.
2.	 Count Fame: Each player performs the following three 
steps in order to determine his total fame (see “Fame” 
on page 26).
-- Each player totals all fame tokens in his play area, 
adds the fame from his Reward cards, the fame for 
his completed Mission cards, and the fame from his 
dashboard sheet (for ship upgrades, additional cargo 
holds, and his laser and shield levels). 
 
Note: Unlike ship upgrades and cargo holds, which 
cumulatively provide fame points for each upgrade, 
lasers and shields provide only the amounts of fame 
indicated by the current positions of their dial arrows 
(see “Fame for Ship Enhancements” on page 26). 
-- If a player has the Fuzzy Dice racial technology, he 
rolls two dice and gains an amount of fame equal to 
the total result of both dice.
-- Each player then loses one point of fame for each 
point of infamy he accumulated during the game. 
A player with less than 0 fame cannot win the game 
and is disqualified at this point.
The sum of the above is a player’s total fame.
3.	 Award Bonus Credits: Each player now receives an 
amount of credits equal to his total fame multiplied 
by 10. If a player’s Fuzzy Dice roll had the same 
result on both dice (i.e. he rolled doubles), he instead 
receives an amount of credits equal to his total fame 
multiplied by 20.
4.	 Determine Final Score: Each player totals the value of 
all credit tokens in his play area, resulting in his final 
score. Unspent credits on First Contact cards do not 
contribute to a player’s final score.
Winning the Game
The player with the highest score at the end of the game wins. 
In the event of a tie, the tied player with the highest total fame 
(as calculated in his Count Fame step) is the winner. If there is 
still a tie, the tying players share the glory of winning.
The green player has landed on the Trapped Rogue 
Planet. Since he took no buy actions during his 
Transaction phase, he may build a merchant 
spaceport during the Merchant Spaceport phase. 
1.	 First he pays c200 to the bank.
2.	 Then he places one of his merchant spaceport 
tokens on the orbit space connected to the 
surface city where his ship is located. 
3.	 Finally he moves his ship to the space containing 
the new merchant spaceport and ends his turn.
Building a Merchant 
Spaceport Example

This diagram shows the green player’s play area at the 
end of the game. To determine his final score, he does 
the following:
He removes his five merchant spaceports from the 
board, taking c200 for each for a total of c1000. 
 
Next he counts 29 fame, including:
•	 Four one-point fame tokens (1)
•	 Six fame for two relic Reward cards (2)
•	 Six fame for three completed Mission cards (3)
•	 Six fame for two additional cargo holds (4)
•	 Two fame for his second ship upgrade (5)
•	 Four fame for his laser dial (6)
•	 One fame for his level 2 Pilot card (7)
Because he has the Fuzzy Dice (8) racial technology, 
he rolls two dice, producing the following results:
He adds the total result of the dice, eight, to his 
accumulated fame, for a subtotal of 37 fame. Then he 
reduces his fame by two because of his two one-point 
infamy tokens (9), leaving him with a total fame of 35.
Because he rolled two results of four (i.e. doubles) on 
his Fuzzy Dice roll, he takes c20 for each point of fame 
(instead of the normal c10) for a total of c700. 
 
Finally, he adds all of the credit tokens in his play area 
together for a total of c2540; this is his final score. 
Scoring Example

Bumps Along the Way
While exploring the galaxy, players will run into many 
hazards, pirates, and encounters. Some give the current 
player precious cargo; others send him hurtling to the 
opposite end of the galaxy. The following sections describe 
the various surprises that await players.
Navigation Spaces
Navigation spaces mark the nebulous routes through the 
galaxy where careless pilots often find themselves taking a 
wrong turn.
A player’s ship must exit a navigation space using the path 
that matches his navigation value (see “Assigning Dice” on 
page 10).
A ship can never exit a navigation space in the direction from 
which it entered during the same turn. Therefore, if a player 
has a die assigned to navigation that would force him to 
exit the navigation space in the direction from which he 
entered that turn, he instead ends his turn on the navigation 
space. If a player starts his turn on a navigation space, this 
restriction does not apply.
If the current player cannot, or does not wish to, assign a die 
to navigation before exiting a navigation space, the player to 
the current player’s left chooses the path by which he exits 
(as per the above rule, the path from which the current player 
entered the navigation space that turn cannot be chosen).
Remember that after a speed die has been assigned, 
it cannot be changed during the current player’s turn. 
Therefore, if the current player travels through multiple 
navigation spaces during his Movement phase, he must use 
the same navigation value on each navigation space.

Telegates
Telegates are wormholes through space 
that can instantly transport a player around 
the galactic cluster. 
If the current player enters a telegate space with a 
normal (i.e. non-telegate) move during his Move step, he 
immediately resolves the following:
1.	 He may choose to assign a speed die to his navigation 
die box if he has not done so already.
2.	 If he has assigned a speed die to his navigation die box, 
he immediately moves his ship to the telegate with the 
number that matches his navigation value. 
If his navigation value matches the telegate number 
on his current space, or if there is no telegate with that 
number on the board, his ship remains on its current 
space and he continues his Move step (skipping the 
remaining steps below).
3.	 If he does not have a die assigned to his navigation die 
box, he rolls the purple effect die and immediately places 
his ship on the telegate with a number identical to that of 
the rolled result.
If the result of the purple effect die matches the telegate 
number on his current space, or if there is no telegate 
with that number on the board, his ship remains on its 
current space and he continues his Move step (skipping 
the step below).
4.	 After using a telegate, the current player declares a 
new heading and continues his Move step from the 
destination telegate. Being transported between 
telegates does not cost movement points. 
Example 1: The green player enters the telegate “2” space 
and chooses to assign a speed die showing a 2 result 
to his navigation die box. Since this navigation value 
matches the telegate number in his current space, his ship 
is unaffected by the telegate and he continues his Move 
step to the adjacent encounter space. 
Example 2: The green player has yet to assign a speed 
die to his navigation die box this turn. After entering the 
telegate “2” space, he decides to roll the purple effect die 
instead. The roll produces a result of 5, so he must move 
his ship to the telegate “5” space on the board, choose a 
new heading, and continue his Move step.
Telegate Examples
1.	 The orange player begins his turn on Galactic Base 
and declares a heading towards the Nebula Habitat 
system.
2.	 He rolls his speed dice resulting in a 4, 2 and 1.
3.	Before exiting the navigation space, he assigns 
the 4-result die to his navigation die box, exiting 
the navigation space en route to the adjacent 
encounter space.
Navigation Example

Only a player who enters a telegate space during his Move 
step is affected by it (in other words, a player who starts his 
turn on a telegate space simply moves to the next space 
during his Move step).
Branching Paths
As the current player moves along the 
path of his declared heading, he may 
encounter a branch in his path, such as 
the one depicted to the right.
When the current player exits a branching space in the 
same Move step he entered it, he must declare which of the 
forward branches (he cannot reverse direction) is his new 
heading. Then he continues his Move step. 
Hazards
Hazards test a player’s lasers, shields, or the skill of his pilot. 
When a player enters a hazard space, he must roll the purple 
effect die and compare its result to the corresponding attribute 
on his dashboard sheet or pilot card. This is a hazard check. 
The following entries describe each hazard check in detail.
Laser Checks
If the current player’s effect die result is less than his 
current laser value, he passes the hazard check and 
continues his Move step as normal.
If his effect die result is equal to or greater than his current 
laser value, he fails the check and may either end his turn 
on that hazard space or decrease his laser value by one 
point and continue his Move step as normal. If he chooses 
the latter, he ignores any other laser hazards for the rest of 
his turn, treating them instead as blue spaces.
Shield Checks
If the current player’s effect die result is less than 
his current shield value, he passes the hazard check 
and continues his Move step as normal.
If his effect die result is equal to or greater than his current 
shield value, he fails the check and may either end his turn 
on that hazard space or decrease his shield value by one 
point and continue his Move step as normal. If he chooses 
the latter, he ignores any other shield hazards for the rest of 
his turn, treating them instead as blue spaces.
Piloting Checks
If the current player’s effect die result is less than 
the pilot skill value on his current Pilot card, he 
passes the hazard check and continues his Move 
step as normal.
If his effect die result is equal to or greater than the pilot 
skill value on his current Pilot card, he immediately ends 
his turn on that hazard space.
Pirates
The battles that raged through the cluster left behind 
numerous disenfranchised groups and bands of deserters, 
many of whom, in desperation or in greed, turned to the 
scourge of commerce: piracy. 
Pirate tokens typically come into play via Encounter card 
effects (see “Encounters” on page 23).
As soon as the current player enters a space 
containing a pirate token during his Move step, he 
must engage with those pirates as follows:
1.	 If he entered an area containing a pirate token by using 
his last movement point, he is ambushed by the pirates; 
he automatically loses the engagement and skips the 
remaining steps (see “Losing a Pirate Engagement”).
2.	 He chooses an attribute (lasers, shields, or pilot skill). 
3.	 He then rolls the purple effect die and modifies the 
result by the value printed on the pirate token.
4.	 If the result is less than the value of his chosen attribute, 
he wins the engagement. If the result is equal to or greater 
than the value of the chosen attribute, he loses. See the 
effects of losing or winning a pirate engagement below.
Winning a Pirate Engagement
The outcome of winning a pirate engagement depends on 
the attribute chosen in step 2 above.
The engagement is won by rolling against the pilot attribute: 
The current player may add a number of movement points 
up to that of his pilot’s level to his movement value. Then he 
continues his Move step, leaving the pirate token on its space.
The engagement is won by rolling against the shield attribute: 
The current player receives two fame. Then he continues his 
Move step, leaving the pirate token on its space.
The engagement is won by rolling against the laser attribute: 
The pirate is defeated. The current player collects c20 for 
every infamy token accumulated under the pirate token. 
Then he takes those infamy tokens and converts them to 
fame by flipping the tokens to their fame side. Finally he 
flips the pirate token to its asteroid side, draws a Reward 
card, and ends his Move step.
Losing a Pirate Engagement
If the current player loses an engagement with pirates, he 
must take the following consequences:
1.	 If transporting one or more goods tokens with a color 
(i.e. grade) matching that of the pirate token, he must 
return one such goods token (his choice) to its culture’s 
supply area.
If he has no goods token matching the color of the pirate 
token, he pays c20 to the bank. If he cannot pay c20, he 
pays all his remaining credits to the bank instead.
2.	 He ends his Move step and places an infamy token 
beneath the Pirate token.

Encounters
When a player enters an encounter space, he 
immediately draws an Encounter card and 
resolves its text. After resolving the Encounter 
card, he discards it and resumes his Move step unless 
otherwise instructed by the card.
Some cards instruct the current player to place a token on 
the encounter space (such as a pirate token, for example). 
This token remains on the space for the rest of the game, 
replacing the encounter space.
Encounter Card Production
Some Encounter cards feature a production and culture 
icon near their bottom edge. When such a card is 
drawn, in addition to the card’s other effects, the current 
player takes all of the goods tokens from the indicated 
culture’s supply area and returns them to the market in 
that culture’s system (if the culture is not yet discovered, 
nothing happens).
Title Cards
Some Encounter cards have the title trait. These are also 
called Title cards.
Instead of being resolved and discarded, Title cards remain in 
play and can change hands during the course of the game.
The effects and conditions of Title cards are fully described 
in their texts.
Intel Cards
Some cards in the Encounter deck have the intel trait. These 
are also called Intel cards.
When drawn, an Intel card is typically placed beside the 
round track where a player may purchase it by paying the 
price and meeting the conditions detailed on the card. 
When used by a player, Intel cards are usually returned to 
the side of the round track, after which they are eligible for 
purchase again. 
The effects and conditions of Intel cards are fully described 
in their texts.
1.	 The green player is traveling in the Polluted 
Planet system when he enters a space containing 
a pirate token. 
2.	 The green player currently has the following 
attributes: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.	 Since the pirate token will modify his die roll by 
+2, the player’s only chance is to roll against his 
laser value. 
4.	 He rolls the purple effect die for a result of 1 which 
is modified by the “+2” pirate token for a final 
result of 3. 
 
 
 
 
5.	 As this result is less than his laser value of 4, the 
green player wins the engagement. 
6.	 He receives c60 from the bank (c20 for each of the 
three infamy tokens accumulated by the pirate). 
Then he flips the pirate token to its asteroid side. 
 
 
 
 
7.	 Finally, he takes the three infamy tokens as fame 
(flipping the tokens), draws a Reward card, and 
ends his turn.
Lasers = 4	
Shields = 2	
Piloting = 3
=	 3
Pirate Engagement 
Example

Asteroids
Asteroids are chunks of rock so large that players 
can land their ships on them. When entering a space 
containing an asteroid, the current player can choose to end 
his turn in that space even if he has unspent movement 
points remaining.
In addition, a player whose ship is equipped with the 
License to Drill racial technology can place one of his drill 
tokens on an asteroid space as his ship passes over or lands 
on the space (see “Drills” on page 25).
Other Rules
The following entries describe other important Merchant of 
Venus rules.
Market Production
When a culture’s market reveals a market token with 
a production icon (also known as an active market), 
the culture immediately produces another goods 
token, if able. 
 
If there are any goods tokens belonging to the culture in that 
culture’s supply area (placed there, for example, by a player 
selling one of that culture’s goods tokens), the current player 
takes one such goods token from the culture’s supply area 
and places it in the goods token area of that culture’s system. 
If there are no goods tokens in a culture’s supply area, the 
active market produces nothing.
Goods are also produced when certain Encounter cards are 
resolved (see “Encounter Card Production” on page 23).
Capacity
Freight capacity in Merchant of Venus is symbolized by the 
capacity icon with a number of capacity dots. 
 
 
 
 
The capacity requirement of goods tokens, passenger 
tokens, and some racial technology tokens are designated 
on each token by a capacity icon of one or two dots. For 
example, the Designer Genes goods token has a capacity 
requirement of two dots. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of a player’s cargo holds has a capacity of up to two 
dots. Thus, a single cargo hold can hold either a) one token 
with a capacity requirement of two dots, or b) one or two 
tokens with a capacity requirement of one dot each.
Capacity Icon (1 dot)
Capacity Icon (2 dots)
The red player skips his Move step to remain on a 
surface city in the Water World system. Doing so 
gives him an unlimited number of actions during his 
Transaction phase. 
The Water World system’s market offers Bionic Perfume 
goods tokens and a Fancy Spoiler racial technology 
token. In addition, the “Scientist” passenger is available 
to be picked up in this system.
During his Transaction phase, the red player takes the 
following actions. 
1.	 With a buy action, he purchases a Bionic 
Perfume goods token. This token has a capacity 
requirement of two dots, meaning it fills a single 
cargo hold. He pays c80 to the bank and places 
the Bionic Perfume goods token in one of his 
empty cargo holds.
2.	 With another buy action, he purchases the Fancy 
Spoiler racial technology token. He pays c60 to 
the bank and places the Fancy Spoiler, which has 
a capacity requirement of one dot, in an empty 
cargo hold.
3.	 Then, as a pick up passenger action, the red player 
takes the “Scientist” passenger on board his ship. The 
passenger has a capacity requirement of one dot, 
so the red player places the “Scientist” passenger 
token in the cargo hold already containing the Fancy 
Spoiler racial technology token. With two tokens, 
each of which has a capacity requirement of one 
dot, the red player’s second cargo hold is now full.
Capacity Example

Making Room in a Ship
Occasionally, a player may need to make room in his ship 
for more lucrative cargo, upgrades, or passengers. There 
are three ways, other than selling goods, to make room in a 
ship: reorganizing, offloading and jettisoning. 
The following entries describe these in detail.
Reorganizing
A player may shift cargo (i.e. goods, passenger, and 
structural tech tokens) between his various cargo holds at 
any time, as long as he does not exceed the capacity of any 
cargo hold while doing so.
Offloading
At any time during a player’s Transaction phase, if he is 
located on a surface city or spaceport, he may offload any 
number of goods, racial technologies, or passengers.
To do so, he simply removes the desired tokens from 
his cargo holds and places them in the market of his 
current system. The offloaded goods, racial technology, 
or passenger tokens immediately become available for 
purchase or pickup at that system.
Normally, a market’s available goods, technologies, and 
passenger tokens would be those originating from that 
system’s culture. However, offloading (and some card 
effects) make it possible for markets to contain goods, 
technologies, and passengers that originated in other systems.
Offloading does not count as an action, and players do not 
receive credits for offloading tokens.
Offloading at Galactic Base
Goods and racial technologies cannot be offloaded at 
Galactic Base but passengers can be offloaded here.
Jettisoning
When the current player ends his Move step on any space 
other than a surface city or spaceport, he may jettison any 
number of goods, racial technologies, or passengers. 
When jettisoning a goods or technology token, he simply 
removes the desired tokens from his cargo holds and places 
the tokens in their originating culture’s supply area at the 
side of the board. 
If he jettisons a passenger token, he removes it from the 
game by returning it to the game box. Then he rolls two 
dice and takes a number of infamy tokens equal to the 
higher result.
Ship Improvements
When a player offloads or jettisons a ship upgrade tech, he 
immediately shifts his other equipped ship upgrade techs 
upwards on his dashboard sheet so that available ship 
upgrade slots are always at the bottom.
Drills
If a player has acquired the License to Drill racial 
technology, he can place drill tokens on asteroid 
spaces as his ship passes over or lands on them. 
Only one drill token can be present on any 
particular asteroid space at one time. 
At the beginning of every even-numbered game round, each 
player receives c10 for every drill token he has placed on 
the board. After collecting any drill credits, each player 
reclaims his drill tokens from the board (see “Beginning a 
New Round” on page 8).
Drills are located on the reverse side of merchant spaceport 
tokens. If a player has placed all of his drill tokens on 
asteroids, he cannot purchase a merchant spaceport until he 
has recovered his drills. Likewise, if a player has used all his 
tokens as merchant spaceports, he cannot place drill tokens.
Pilots
All players begin the game with a level 1 pilot on their 
dashboard sheet. A pilot’s level is indicated by the level icon 
on his Pilot card (see “Pilot Card Anatomy” on page 26).
Upgrading Pilots
Throughout the game, a player may upgrade his pilot’s level 
to enhance the pilot’s skills and abilities: 
•	 Upgrade to level 2: During his Move step, the current 
player may upgrade his pilot from level 1 to level 2 by 
landing his ship at Galactic Base and paying c60 to the 
bank. He then flips his Pilot card to its level 2 side.
•	 Upgrade to level 3: During his Move step, the current 
player may upgrade his pilot from level 2 to level 3 by 
landing on a surface city or spaceport in the system 
containing the pilot’s home culture and paying c60 
to the bank. This upgrade cost is not reduced by the 
pilot’s home culture discount (see “Pilot Home Culture 
Discounts” on page 26). 
After doing so, the current player chooses which level 
3 pilot ability he would like to use (i.e. which side of 
the level 3 Pilot card will be used) and places that side 
of the level 3 pilot card faceup on the pilot space of his 
dashboard sheet, discarding the previous pilot card. 
After choosing which level 3 pilot upgrade to use, a 
player is unable to use the other level 3 upgrade (i.e. the 
other side of the level 3 Pilot card) for the remainder of 
the game.

If a player is located on Galactic Base or a surface city 
or spaceport of his pilot’s home culture but chooses to 
skip his Movement phase, he may still upgrade his pilot 
immediately prior to starting his Transaction phase.
Pilot Home Culture Discounts
Players receive a discount to all buy actions made in the 
system containing their pilot’s home culture. On every 
buy action made in such a system a level 1 pilot provides a 
c10 discount; a level 2 pilot provides a c20 discount; and 
a level 3 pilot provides a c30 discount. This discount can 
never cause a price to be negative (i.e. the minimum price 
of any purchase will always be zero).
The pilot discount applies to all buy actions performed by 
a player at his pilot’s home culture, including those made 
to purchase goods, equipment, and racial technologies. The 
discount also applies to merchant spaceports.
Example: The green player is on the Trapped Rogue 
Planet where the Eeepeeep culture resides. During the 
green player’s Transaction phase, he conducts a buy 
action to purchase one Pedigree Bolts goods token. 
Normally, the Pedigree Bolts would cost him c200; 
however, the green player has the Eeepeeep level 2 
pilot which grants a c20 discount at the pilot’s home 
culture (i.e. the Eeepeeep). The green player’s price for 
the Pedigree Bolt goods token is therefore c180.
Fame
Fame represents a player’s esteem in the 
galaxy; the more fame he earns, the more 
renowned he becomes. 
A player’s fame contributes directly to winning the game. 
At the end of the game, each player receives c10 for each 
point of fame he has accumulated (see “End of the Game” 
on page 18).
A player can earn fame in various ways, including upgrading 
his ship and pilot, completing missions, defeating pirates, 
delivering certain passengers, and gaining Reward cards.
Fame for Ship Enhancements
As indicated on a player’s dashboard sheet, enhancing 
certain areas of his ship grants him additional fame at the 
end of the game:
•	 Cargo Holds: A player who purchases one additional 
cargo hold receives two fame at the end of the game. A 
player who purchases two additional cargo holds (the 
maximum allowed) receives six fame at the end of the 
game (two for the first purchased cargo hold and four for 
the second).
•	 Ship Upgrades: A player who owns two ship upgrades 
receives two fame at the end of the game. A player who 
owns three ship upgrades receives six fame at the end of 
the game (two for the second ship upgrade and four for 
the third). 
•	 Laser Level: At the end of the game, each player receives 
an amount of fame equal to the fame number on the 
current position of his laser dial indicator. For example, 
a player with a laser level of four receives two fame at 
the end of the game. 
•	 Shield level: At the end of the game, each player 
receives an amount of fame equal to the fame number 
on the current position of his shield dial indicator. For 
example, a player with a shield level of five receives four 
fame at the end of the game. 
Note: As indicated on the dashboard sheet, laser or shield 
levels of 1-3 award no fame. 
Infamy 
Just as some actions can increase a player’s 
reputation by earning him fame, less noble deeds 
can earn him infamy. Each point of infamy reduces 
a player’s fame by one point at the end of the game 
(see “End of the Game” on page 18).
1.	 Pilot Level
2.	 Piloting Skill
3.	 Pilot’s Home Culture and Discount
4.	 Training Location and Cost
5.	 Flavor Text/Pilot Ability
6.	 Fame
Pilot Card Anatomy

Missions
During game setup, each player receives 
one Mission card and places it faceup to 
the left of his dashboard sheet.
If a player’s Mission card designates a destination system, he 
places one of his mission tokens in that system (there is no 
limit to how many mission tokens may be in a system). This 
helps visually identify the objective of a player’s mission.
To complete a mission, a player must land on a surface 
city, spaceport, or other indicated space in the designated 
system and fulfill the requirements specified in the Mission 
card’s objective text. If the card’s destination is “None,” 
only the Mission card’s objective must be fulfilled.
After completing a mission, the current player places the 
Mission card facedown in his play area (indicating it is 
completed and will award him fame at the end of the game) 
and draws a Reward card. Then he draws another Mission 
card from Mission deck, relocating his mission token to the 
new destination system specified by the new Mission card 
(if any).
Second Mission
A player can purchase a second mission by landing his 
ship at Galactic Base and paying c60 to the bank during his 
Movement phase. 
After purchasing a second mission, the current player 
draws a Mission card and places it to the left of his 
dashboard sheet below his first Mission card. In addition, 
he receives five fame.
He can complete either of his two missions in any order. 
After he completes any of his missions and receives a 
Reward card, he immediately draws a new Mission card to 
replace it.
In other words, a player who purchases a second mission at 
Galactic Base will have two active missions for the rest of 
the game.
If a player is located on Galactic Base but chooses to 
skip his Movement phase, he may still purchase a second 
mission immediately prior to starting his Transaction phase.
Rewards
Players earn Reward cards by defeating pirates and 
completing missions. When a player draws a Reward card, 
he places it faceup in his play area and may use its ability 
as long as the card remains there.
Some Reward cards have a relic icon, as shown 
to the right. These cards provide fame at the end 
of the game and interact with the “Archeologist” 
Encounter card.
Some Reward cards have a trade-in icon, shown 
to the right. When a player draws a Reward card 
with this icon, instead of keeping the card, he may 
immediately exchange it for c50 (this decision 
must be made as soon as the card is drawn––after he 
decides to keep it, he can no longer trade it in for c50). 
Reward cards exchanged for their trade-in value are placed 
beside the board and become immediately available for 
purchase at Galactic Base for c60. Purchasing such a Reward 
card at Galactic Base takes one buy action.
mission tokens
2.	 Destination
3.	 Objective
Mission Card Anatomy
2.	 Fame (some cards)
3.	 Ability
Reward Card Anatomy
4.	 Relic Icon 
(some cards)
5.	 Trade-In Value 
(some cards)
6.	 Flavor Text
4.	 Board Panel Indicator 
(where the destination 
system is located)
5.	 Fame
6.	 Flavor Text

Optional Rules
When players have become familiar with Merchant of Venus, 
they may wish to explore the following game options.
Title & Intel Cards in Play
Players who wish to enhance player interaction can 
separate the following cards from the Encounter deck 
during setup:
•	 Archeologist	
• Infamous
•	 Confirmed Location	 • Slaver
•	 Drill Baron	
• Star Maps
Then place these cards faceup beside the round track before 
the game begins. They are in play from the start of the game.
Asteroid System 
To ease movement across the Asteroid System, players can 
begin the game with the telegate “1” token on the leftmost 
encounter space of the Asteroid System as shown in the 
following image:
When using this option, the “Telegate 1” Encounter card 
does not reposition telegate “1.” If drawn, discard the card 
with no effect.
Maximum Production
Players who wish to keep goods from becoming scarce may 
opt to maximize production. When a market shift reveals 
an active market (i.e. its market token shows the gear icon), 
that market produces all of its available goods tokens from 
its culture’s supply area (as opposed to just one token).
Demand
This option uses the demand tokens from the classic game 
to represent special demand for certain goods. It does not 
replace the normal rules for buying and selling goods but 
provides a credit bonus to players who sell the type of good 
listed at the market containing the demand token.
Classic Game 
Demand Token
During setup, shuffle and place all the demand tokens 
facedown next to the passenger tokens. At the start of every 
odd-numbered game round (including the first round), 
place a random passenger token as normal; then draw a 
random demand token, reveal it, and place it faceup in the 
market of the culture indicated on the token. 
If the token’s culture has not yet been discovered, place 
the demand token in the culture’s supply area to the side of 
the board. When that culture is later revealed, the demand 
token is transferred to the discovered system’s market along 
with the rest of the tokens from the culture’s supply area.
When a player sells a goods token in a system that contains 
a demand token for that same type of good, he receives an 
amount of credits from the bank equal to the good’s normal 
resale value (the sell price determined by the low, high, or 
active market indicator) plus the bonus credits shown on 
the demand token. After the transaction, the goods token 
is placed in the culture’s supply area as normal, and the 
demand token is removed from the game. 
High Demand
If there are multiple demand tokens for the same good at 
a culture’s market, a player who sells such a goods token 
there receives bonus credits equal to the bonus value of all 
the demand tokens combined. Regardless of how many 
demand tokens contribute to the bonus, only one of those 
demand tokens is removed for each goods token sold of 
that type here.

Game Variants
Experienced players looking to engage with Merchant of 
Venus in completely new ways can explore the following 
three variants.
Light Speed Game
Players who wish to play a faster-paced version of Merchant 
of Venus should set up the game as instructed in steps 1–9 
on page 6. Then, beginning with step 10, perform the 
following steps in order:
10.	Prepare the Bank and Starting Funds: Sort the credit 
tokens into piles by denomination and place them near 
the board. Give each player an amount of credits equal 
to the number of players multiplied by 100.
11.	Determine First Player: Randomly select a first player. 
That player receives the First Player card and is hereafter 
called the first player.
12.	Upgrade Pilot and Equipment: Each player upgrades 
his Pilot card to level 2 (i.e. flips the Pilot card) and sets 
both his laser and shield dials to “3.”
13.	Reveal First Contact Cards: Beginning with the 
player to the first player’s right and proceeding 
counterclockwise, each player chooses and reveals 
one First Contact card on the board. After doing do, he 
places the revealed First Contact card in his play area, 
adds the IOU credit tokens to the card, and places that 
culture’s goods, racial technology, and market tokens 
in the chosen system’s market. Continue this step until 
each player has chosen two First Contact cards. 
14.	Purchase Starting Goods: Beginning with the player to 
the first player’s right and proceeding counterclockwise, 
each player performs an unlimited number of buy 
actions to buy goods from one or both of the cultures 
he revealed (as per the normal rules for buying goods 
tokens). Players cannot use their IOU credits or pilot 
discounts during this step. 
15.	Place Round Marker: Place the round marker on space 
“16” of the round track to indicate the starting round 
of play.
16.	Place Passengers: Randomly select five passenger 
tokens and place them faceup on their starting cultures 
(as per the normal rules for placing passengers).
17.	Select Starting Spaces: Starting with the first player and 
going clockwise, each player selects the starting space 
for his ship to be either Galactic Base or 
a surface city or spaceport in the system of one of the 
cultures for which he holds a First Contact card.
The game then proceeds as normal. 
Solo Challenge Game
Though a player can play a solo game of Merchant of 
Venus by simply attempting to maximize his profits within 
30 rounds, the solo challenge game variant provides an 
additional set of challenges for a solo player to overcome in 
order to win the game.
Solo Challenge Setup
To set up a solo challenge game, remove the Title and Intel 
cards from the Encounter deck. Then, follow the normal setup 
rules on page 6 with the following change to step 10:
10.	Prepare the Bank and Starting Funds: The player selects 
two options from the table below. The “Max” column 
indicates the maximum number of times an option can 
be chosen.
Max
Options
 c50
 c30 and a Hard Burn
 c30 and a Data Probe
 c30 and a Less Fancy Spoiler*
Stealth Field
+2 lasers**
+2 shields**
+1 laser and +1 shield**
* If this option is chosen twice, the player replaces the 
Less Fancy Spoiler with the Fancy Spoiler.
** The bonus provided in this option is in addition to 
the starting value given in step 12 of setup.
Then arrange the Challenge cards as follows:
1.	 Sort Challenge Cards: Sort the Challenge cards by color 
into five separate facedown piles. Then shuffle each pile 
and draw its top card. Return the remaining Challenge 
cards to the game box.
2.	 Place Challenge Cards: Place each Challenge card faceup 
next to the round track so the round indicator on the 
card aligns with the corresponding game round.
The player now continues with the remaining setup steps. 
After setup is complete, the game is ready to begin.
Challenges
A Challenge card becomes active at the start of the game 
round indicated on the card and remains active until the 
challenge is completed. As long as a Challenge card is 
active, the effect on the card (usually a negative effect to the 
player) is also active. 
In addition, immediately before every movement step, 
the player must pay the fee listed on the active card to the 
bank. If multiple Challenge cards are active, the player must 

pay the total of all the fees to the bank. If, at the start of any 
round, the player cannot afford a Challenge card’s fee, he 
immediately loses the game.
To complete a Challenge card, the player must fulfill the 
conditions of its challenge. He can complete the Challenge 
cards in any order, whether the card is active or not. After 
the player completes a Challenge card, he removes the card 
from play and returns it to the game box; the card’s effect 
and fee are no longer active.
Irreversible Effect
Upon becoming active, some Challenge cards feature an 
irreversible effect that will impact the game even after the 
card has been removed. The fee of such a Challenge card 
goes away as normal after the card is returned to the game 
box, but the consequences of its effect do not. 
Winning the Solo Challenge Game
To win, the player must complete all of the Challenge cards 
by the end of round 30. If the player does not complete all 
the Challenge cards by the end of round 30, he loses the 
game. If he wins, the player can tally his final score (see 
“End of the Game” on page 18) and seek to beat that 
score in future solo games.
Epic Game
Players looking to maximize profits across an epic session 
of Merchant of Venus can play this game variant lasting well 
past round 30. 
Before starting an epic game, players should mutually 
decide how long the game should run (such as 40, 50, or 
even 60 rounds). If the players cannot agree, simply roll five 
dice and add 30 to the rolled total to determine the number 
of rounds to play. We do not recommend playing more than 
60 rounds.
After completing round 30, but before proceeding to round 
31, players must perform the following steps in order:
1.	 Advance Round Marker: Flip the round 
marker to the “30” side and place it on space 
“1” of the round track. This indicates the 
current round number is above 30 (i.e. when 
the marker is on space “4,” the round number is 34).
2.	 Produce Goods: Take all of the goods tokens from the 
culture supply areas and place them in their respective 
markets on the board (unless the culture is not yet 
discovered).
3.	 Place Production Round Markers: 
If playing 41 rounds or more, place one 
production round marker on space “10” of 
the round track (reflecting turn 40). If playing 51 rounds 
or more, place an additional production round marker on 
space “20” of the round track (reflecting turn 50).
4.	 Refresh Passenger Token Pool: Take all the passenger 
tokens not in play (i.e. passengers that were delivered 
in the previous rounds and returned to the box) and 
shuffle them facedown with the remaining undrawn 
passengers to form a new pool. Depending on the 
number of rounds played, the passenger pool may need 
to be similarly refreshed several times. Refresh it when a 
player draws the last remaining passenger.
The game then proceeds as normal. When the last player 
completes his turn in the final round, the game ends and 
players proceed to final scoring (see “End of the Game” on 
page 18).
Note: In an epic game, it is possible the bank will run out of 
credits before the game is over. If this occurs, players should 
keep track of their credits on paper.
Production Rounds
When the round marker reaches one of the production 
round markers on the round track, take all goods tokens 
from the culture supply areas and place them in their 
respective markets on the board. If a culture has not yet been 
discovered, leave its goods tokens in its culture supply area.
Encounter Deck
When playing beyond round 30, the Encounter 
deck may need to be reshuffled after the last card 
is drawn. Before reshuffling, remove all Encounter 
cards without the “30” icon (found in the lower right 
corner of the card) from the game. Then shuffle the rest of 
the Encounter cards to form a new Encounter deck.
2.	 Round Indicator
3.	 Challenge
4.	 Effect
5.	 Fee
Challenge Card Anatomy

Appendix A: Goods
The following entries describe the goods of Merchant of Venus.
Bionic Perfume: A delicacy for all types of nostrils! This long-
lasting perfume is mixed with a variety of rare substances 
that produce a multitude of odors.
Canned Traits: Need a new personality? The Volois have you 
covered! These canned personality traits will help you 
become the person you’ve always wanted to be.
Glorious Junk: Fresh from the trash pits of 
the Graw’s glorious past, this junk consists 
of tools that can still be repaired and old 
gadgets that were used to discover the 
galaxy’s most mysterious secrets.
Living Toys: These adorable little animals were designed to 
withstand the tyrannical demands of any toddler. Some can 
even do tricks!
Finest Dust: What do you get when you grind up worthless 
rocks as finely as possible? A suitable substitute for water, 
of course!
Rock Videos: These energetic sounds and surrealist illusions 
are enjoyed by viewers with too much imagination, and 
studied by those with too little.
Melf Pelts: These mousey little melfs are 
mean creatures, but their pelts are as 
luxuriant as you can get. Captured by the 
Shenna, these little furballs are sure to 
please.
Immortal Grease: This self-renewing lubricant was engineered 
by the famous Yxklyx biochemist, Uqzxr Wnnmn Xclyz.
Chicle Liquor: The alcoholic beverage that was “brewed to 
be chewed!” The chewing-gum-like nature of this potent 
beverage means you won’t have to order another round.
Pedigree Bolts: These high-quality bolts are capable of 
replicating themselves automatically, as long as they are fed 
the proper raw materials.
Impossible Furniture: Designed by the 
clever-minded Whynoms, these unique 
pieces of furniture will ensure that any 
dinosaur, plant, snail, giant tentacle slug, 
or bacterium will have a place to sit when 
they visit.
Designer Genes: These Cholos-crafted genes are hand made 
to hand make your chromosomes to your liking.
Megalith Paperweight: Carved by the Wollows to exercise 
their minds, these monstrous creations can be used as 
architecture, planters, or your own monolithic arrangements.
Psychotic Sculpture: Expand your mind 
with these gnarly works of art! Use them 
for decoration, worship, or disturbing 
conversation pieces.
Appendix B: Racial 
Technologies
The following entries describe the various racial 
technologies of Merchant of Venus.
Fancy/ 
Less Fancy Spoiler
This flashy device provides a slight propulsion 
boost while grabbing the attention of 
potential customers. It does, however, take 
up a lot of space.
Culture: 1
Cost: c60/c30
Grade: Luxury/Basic
Type: Structural Tech
The Fancy Spoiler adds one point to the current player’s 
movement value if his total speed dice result is odd; it adds 
two points to his movement value if his total speed dice 
result is even.
The Less Fancy Spoiler adds only one point to the current player’s 
movement value if his total movement dice result is odd.
Spoilers have a capacity requirement of one dot. At the end 
of the game, a spoiler gives its player an amount of fame 
equal to the result of one die roll.
A player cannot have both the Fancy and the Less Fancy 
Spoiler racial technology tokens at the same time (they are 
considered the same technology).
Market Flux
Market Flux technology began as an instant 
login for lazy brokers to access their systems. 
Now it allows unscrupulous hackers to 
influence market trading.
Culture: 2
When a player assigns a die to this upgrade, he chooses one 
discovered system and performs a market shift in its market 
(see “Market Shift” on page 15).
Hard Burn
This primitive rocket augmentation provides 
raw power to any ship’s impulse boosters.
Culture: 3
A player may use the Hard Burn token after rolling his speed 
dice to add 10 points to his movement value. After a player 
uses Hard Burn, he immediately returns the token to its 
originating culture. 

Stealth Field
With the reliance on spaceports for 
intergalactic trading, a smuggler can 
save precious credits by slipping through 
security and interacting with a spaceport’s 
black market.
Culture: 4
When assigned a die, a Stealth Field has the following 
two functions:
Stealth: When visiting an opponent’s merchant spaceport, 
the current player does not pay the c10 fee to the owner of 
the merchant spaceport for each buy and sell action. 
Black Market: A player may exploit the black market to 
sell a goods token to the culture who would be next in the 
sequential list of cultures buying that good.* The current 
player gains two infamy tokens for each goods token he 
sells in this way.
* Every goods token shows the cultures who will purchase 
that good. This is presented as a list of culture identifiers in 
ascending numerical order. When using the Black Market, 
culture 1 follows culture 14.
Example: The Melf Pelts can normally be sold at 
cultures 8, 9, 10, and 11. Using the Black Market, the 
current player can also sell Melf Pelts to culture 12. He 
would gain two infamy tokens for each Melf Pelt goods 
token he sold to culture 12.
License to Drill
After the destruction of hundreds of 
planetoids during the Rastur War, resource-
rich asteroids are common in the galaxy. 
Unfortunately, mining rights are highly 
regulated.
Culture: 5
The License to Drill allows a player whose ship passes over, 
or lands on, an asteroid space to place one of his drill 
tokens there. If a drill token already exists on the asteroid 
space, another drill token may not be placed there until the 
existing token is removed. 
At the beginning of each even-numbered round, each player 
receives c10 for each drill token he has on an asteroid. Then 
each player retrieves his drill tokens and returns them to his 
play area.
Shuttle
Since the Rastur War came to an end, the 
demand for passenger transport around the 
cluster has greatly increased.
Culture: 6
If the current player has assigned a die to the Shuttle, he 
may pick up any number of passengers in systems with a 
spaceport or surface city within a number of spaces equal 
to or less than the value of the die assigned to the Shuttle 
(see “Picking Up Passengers” on page 16).
Additionally, he can drop off passengers to systems with a 
surface city or spaceport within a number of spaces equal 
to or less than the value of the die assigned to the Shuttle 
(using the normal rules for dropping off passengers, found 
on page 16).
The Shuttle (i.e. counting the spaces between a player’s ship 
and a spaceport or surface city) ignores all hazards, and 
green lines cost the Shuttle one movement point instead of 
the usual two.
The current player can use the Shuttle only during the Set 
Speed and End Movement steps of his Movement phase.
Throttle Boost
The powerful throttle boost can improve 
acceleration by up to 400 percent! But 
hurry, the best throttles tend to go to the first 
merchants to make an offer.
Culture: 7
Type: Special Tech
After purchasing a Throttle Boost, the current player places 
the Throttle Boost token over the throttle die box of his 
The back of each Throttle Boost token shows the new die 
values the current player can assign to his throttle. These are 
different for each Throttle Boost token.
Stasis Tanks
Although there is more demand for 
interstellar transportation, passengers have 
become no less cranky when it takes too long 
to reach their destinations. Recent advances 
in life-support technology have introduced 
comfortable resting tanks for organic life forms, allowing 
passengers to effectively hibernate during their trip.
Culture: 8
Type: Structural Tech

One Stasis Tank token has a capacity requirement of one 
dot. Any number of passengers can be placed on this token 
without taking up extra cargo space, including passengers 
that would normally take up a full cargo hold.
Wave Emitter
While a merchant’s primary purpose is trade, 
many realize that performing services for Galactic 
Base can greatly increase their prestige.
Culture: 9
After a player who owns a Wave Emitter ends his Movement 
phase, he may force any other player whose ship is on the 
same space as his own ship to exchange one Mission card 
with him. A player can only use this ability once per turn.
A player who owns a Wave Emitter at the end of the game 
receives three additional fame for each completed mission.
Data Probe
The most cunning merchants believe that 
knowledge is power. Since this galaxy cluster 
is largely unexplored, Data Probes can be 
useful tools for gaining information.
Culture: 10
During the Set Speed step of a player’s Movement phase, he 
can use the Data Probe to perform the following ability:
Scout: The player may secretly look at two facedown First 
Contact cards. After doing so, he may switch the locations 
of the two cards. Lastly, he may secretly look at the top 
Encounter card after which he returns the Encounter card 
facedown to either the top or the bottom of the Encounter 
deck (his choice).
After a player uses a Data Probe, he immediately returns the 
token to its originating culture. 
A player can have any number of Data Probes at one time, 
but he can use only one Data Probe per turn.
Fuzzy Dice
These seemingly useless artifacts from an 
ancient civilization have become a status 
symbol among the merchant class. Any 
merchant who hangs one of these from his 
dashboard is guaranteed his fifteen minutes 
of fame.
Culture: 11
Type: Special Tech
After a player purchases the Fuzzy Dice special tech, he 
places its token above his dashboard sheet.
At the end of the game, a player with the Fuzzy Dice rolls 
two dice and gains an amount of fame equal to the total 
result of both dice. If he rolls the same result on both dice 
(i.e. doubles), he receives c20 for each point of fame, 
instead of c10, during final scoring.
Variable Shield
While not as flashy as normal shields, 
variable shields place function over form.
Culture: 12
When the current player assigns a die to the Variable Shield, 
he adds the value of the assigned die to his current shield 
value for the rest of his turn.
The bonus gained from the Variable Shield cannot be 
reduced to automatically pass shield hazards on the board.
Zen Paint Job
Every passenger wants to fly in the coolest 
ride and they’ll pay extra to do so. However, 
like the disco era of Old Earth, this fad is sure 
to fade.
Culture: 13
After a player with a Zen Paint Job delivers a passenger, in 
addition to receiving the normal fare, he rolls two dice, 
multiplies the combined result by 10 and receives that 
amount of bonus credits.
At the end of the game, before final scoring, a player 
equipped with a Zen Paint Job tech token loses three fame.
Variable Laser
Sister to the variable shield, the variable 
laser is the answer to strong armaments 
needed quickly.
Culture: 14
When the player assigns a die to the Variable Laser, he adds 
the value of the assigned die to his current laser value for 
the rest of his turn.
The bonus gained from the Variable Laser cannot be 
reduced to automatically pass laser hazards on the board.

Credits
Classic Game Design: Richard Hamblen
Standard Game Design: Rob Kouba
Producer: Christopher Hosch
Game Rules: Rob Kouba and Christian T. Petersen
Editing & Proofreading: David Hansen
Additional Content: Brady Sadler and Tim Uren
Graphic Design: Chris Beck with Shaun Boyke, Dallas 
Melhoff, Brian Schomburg, and Evan Simonet
Ship Design: David Griffith
Cover Art: Alex Aparin
Interior Art: David Griffith, Johannes Holm, and Henning 
Ludvigsen
Licensing Coordinator: Deb Beck
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Andy Christensen
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Production Coordinator: Laura Creighton and Megan 
Duehn
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka 
Executive Producers: Michael Hurley and 
Christian T. Petersen
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Chris Beck, Deb Beck, Bryan Bornmueller, Max 
Brooke, Daniel Lovat Clark, Frank Mark Darden, Andrew 
Fischer, Nicholas Frisbie, Evan Hall, Scott Hankins, David 
Hansen, Gregg Helmberger, Jesse Hickle, Sarah Ellen Hickle, 
Tim Huckelbery, Steven Kimball, James Kniffen, Lukas 
Litzsinger, Jessica Mehok, Timothy John Mehok, Brian Mola, 
Christie Mola, Lori Jean Richards, Tim Uren, Clint Vogel, 
Jason Walden, Max Wallin, Colin Webster, and Jamie Zephyr
Editorial Design and Support: Stronghold Games
Protective Card Sleeves Required: 
Wizards of the Coast 
Licensing Approvals Team
Senior Creative Director: Jon Schindehette
Editorial Review: Jennifer Wilkes Clarke
Associate Brand Manager: Hilary Ross
© 2012 Hasbro. All Rights Reserved. Avalon Hill and its logo are trademarks of HASBRO, Inc. Merchant 
of Venus, Wizards of the Coast, and their respective logos are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast 
LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. Used with permission. Licensed by Wizards of the Coast LLC. 
Fantasy Flight Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved to their respective owners. Fantasy 
Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA. 
651-639-1905. Retain this information for your records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to 
small parts. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. This Product is not 
a toy. Not intended for use of persons 13 years of age or younger.

Index
A
Anomalies 6
Assigning Dice 10
Asteroids 24
Asteroid System 6
B
Black Market 32
Branching Paths 22
Buy actions 12
Buying 12
C
Encounter cards 23
First Contact cards 7, 11
Reward cards 27
Solo challenge cards 29
Cargo holds 14
Component Limitations 9
Component List 3
Component Overview 3
D
Dashboard sheet 9
Data Probe 14, 29, 33
Declare heading 8
Demand tokens 28
Discounts 26
Drill Icon 8
Drills 8
Drives 14
E
Encounters 23
End movement 9
End of the game 18
Equipment 13
F
Fame 26
Fame 3, 4, 7, 17, 18, 26, 27
Infamy 26
Fancy Spoiler 24, 29, 31
First contact 11
First contact (IOU) credits 15
Fuzzy Dice 9, 15, 18, 19, 33, 36
G
Galactic Base 6
Galactic cluster 5
Game Overview 2
Goods 13, 31
Buying 12
Description of 31
Grades (color) of 13, 36
Selling 15
H
Hard Burn 29, 31
Hazards 22
I
Infamy 3, 4, 7, 17, 26
Intel cards 23, 28
IOUs 12
Irreversible Effect 30
J
Jettison 25
L
Landing 9
Laser checks 22
Lasers 13
License to Drill 24, 25, 32
M
Making room in a ship 25
Jettisoning 25
Offloading 25
Market Flux 31
Markets 6
Market shift 15
Merchant spaceport phase 17
Missions 27
Move 9
Movement phase 8
N
Navigation 20
O
Object of the Game 2
Offload 25
Optional Rules 28
P
Passengers 8
Dropping Off 16
Picking Up 16
Piloting checks 22
Pilots 25, 26
Pirates 24
Player Turns 8
R
Racial technologies 31
Data Probe 14, 29, 33
Fancy Spoiler 31
Fuzzy Dice 9, 15, 18, 19, 33, 36
Hard Burn 29, 31
License to Drill 24, 25, 32
Market Flux 31
Shuttle 32
Stasis Tanks 32
Stealth Field 29, 32
Throttle Boost 15, 32
Variable Laser 33
Variable Shield 33
Wave Emitter 33
Zen Paint Job 33
Racial technologies, buying 14
Reorganizing 25
Rewards 27
S
Scoring 18, 19
Scout 33
Sell action 15
Set speed 9
Setup 6
Shield checks 22
Shields 13
Ship upgrades 11, 15
Shuttle 32
Solo game 29
Spaces 5
Special techs 15
Spending Credits 17
Stasis Tanks 32
Stealth 32
Stealth Field 29, 32
Structural techs 15
Systems and routes 5
T
Telegates 21
Throttle 10
Throttle Boost 15, 32
Title cards 23, 28
Transaction phase 8, 12
U
Utilities 15
Utility techs 15
W
Wave Emitter 33
Winning the game 18
Z
Zen Paint Job 33

Quick Reference
Removing Classic Game Components
When setting up a standard game, players will need to 
remove the components used only in the classic game. 
Below is a visual guide of which components should be 
removed before starting play:
Grades (color) of Goods
Basic 
c10 - c40
(Copper)
Premium 
c50 - c110
(Silver)
Luxury
c120 - c200
(Gold)
Game Board Legend
Blue Space
Yellow Space
Red Space
Laser Hazard
Shield Hazard
Piloting Hazard
Asteroid
Encounter
Orbit Space
Surface City
Icon Reference
Production Icon: When this icon appears on 
a market token, the corresponding culture 
produces one good. If it appears on an 
Encounter card, the corresponding culture 
produces all of its goods tokens in its culture 
supply area.
Galactic Base Icon: Passengers with this icon 
must be either picked up at, or delivered to, 
Galactic Base.
Ship Upgrade Icon: Designates a racial 
technology that must be placed to the right of 
a ship upgrade slot on the dashboard sheet.
Capacity Icons: A token with two dots 
takes up a full cargo hold. A token with 
one dot takes up half a cargo hold.
Relic Icon: Designates which Reward 
cards provide fame and interact with the 
“Archeologist” Encounter card.
Trade-In Icon: A Reward card with this icon can 
be immediately exchanged for c50. If the card 
is exchanged, it is set beside the board and is 
available for purchase at Galactic Base for c60.
Throttle Icon: Designates the space on the 
dashboard sheet where a player can assign a 
die to his throttle.
Navigation Icon: Designates the space on the 
dashboard sheet where a player can assign a 
die to his navigation.
Fuzzy Dice Icon: Designates the space on the 
dashboard sheet above which a player places 
his Fuzzy Dice token.
Ship Class Sheets
Demand Tokens
Factory Deed 
Factory Goods Tokens
Culture Tokens
Encounter Tokens
Spaceport Deed 
Shield Tokens