Credits
Design
Christian Marcussen 
Kasper Aagaard
Artwork
Ben Nelson 
Chris Quilliams
Layout
NelsonDesign.net
Published by
Z-Man Games, Inc. 
64 Prince Road 
Mahopac, NY 10541
Lead Playtesters
Toke Nielsen, Freddy Silva, Tina Arbjørn, 
Christian Guldager Simonsen, Michael Kucirek, 
Thore Nellemann & Stephan Rasmussen
Thanks to
Justin Morse, Mik Svellov, Mika Rautiainen, 
Shawn Low, Robert Schimkowitsch, Arne Thomi 
and the BGG community for fantastic support, 
feedback and patience. (www.boardgamegeek.com)
Special Thanks to
Geert van der Burgt
In Memory of
Michael Kucirek
Components
• 100 Coins
20 (1 Gold), 20 (2 Gold), 30 (5 Gold), 30 (10 Gold).
• 26 Plastic ships
5 sloops, 4 Flutes, 9 Frigates, 8 Galleons.
• 24 Demand Tokens
Demand Tokens are placed around the board next to 
each port. They indicate the goods currently in demand 
at the port in question.
• 17 Merchant Tokens
5 Spanish, 4 Dutch, 4 French and 4 English. These 
are placed around the board and indicate merchants 
that can be attacked and plundered.
• 16 Ship Modification Tokens
Each port has a Ship Modification. These represent 
upgrades that can be bought for your ship.
• 12 Special Weapon Tokens
These Special Weapons can be bought in any port. A 
player can have one of each, and they are used during 
combat for tactical purposes.
• 20 Bounty Tokens
5 of each nation. These are primarily used to indicate 
when players are wanted, but are also used for the 
effects of some Event Cards.
• 254 Cards
34 Event Cards, 70 Glory Cards, 16 Captain Cards, 
64 Cargo Cards, 20 Ship Cards, 25 Rumor Cards & 
25 Mission Cards.
• 29 wooden cubes
6 red, 6 blue, 6 yellow, 6 green & 5 brown
• 4 Naval Tokens
Used for placing below Naval ships to tell them apart.
• 1 Game Board.
• 4 Player Boards.
• 10 custom dice.
• 4 stash containers
• 2 Player Aid sheets.
• 1 rule book.
Contents
Components
Important Terms
Overview
Game Setup
Playing the Game
Merchant Raids
Bounties & Rewards
Glory Cards
Non-Player Captains
Combat
Plunder
Dying & Retirement
A Combat Example
For more information, comments, questions, suggestions 
visit the Z-Man Games web site at:
www.zmangames.com
©2010 Z-Man Games, Inc.

Overview
Winning The Game
The object of the game is to gain 10 Glory Points. 
Whenever a point is gained, the player moves a cube in 
his or her color up the Glory track found on the Game 
Board.
Glory Points are awarded to players every time they 
perform various acts of glory and infamy:
•	 Defeating a Player or NPC 
(Defined as surviving and winning Naval or Crew 
Combat)
•	 Selling 3 or more Cargo Cards in a port where the 
goods sold are ‘in demand’.
•	 Plundering 12+ Gold in a Merchant Raid
•	 Completing a Mission
•	 Finding a Rumor to be true
•	 Buying a Galleon or Frigate 
(only once per Captain)
Once a player reaches 10 Glory Points (including the 
secret points for stashed Gold – see “Stash”), he declares 
so and the game ends after everyone has had their turn.
If several players reach 10 or more in the same turn, the 
player with the most points on the Glory track on the 
board (i.e. not counting points from their stash) wins 
the game. If there is still a tie, the player with the largest 
amount of stash wins. If this does not resolve the tie, 
both players are declared winners.
Important Terms
Player Board: The board where you put many of your 
cards, Ship Modifications and Gold.
Sea-Zone: The large areas at sea in which you place 
your ships and move them around. There are 17 
Sea-Zones on the Game Board.
Bounties: An indication of how wanted you are. Most 
commonly, you get bounties by engaging non-
pirate ships. When you get a Bounty for the first 
time, you place a Bounty Token on your Player 
Board. For each additional bounty you get from 
that nation, you move the Bounty Token a step up 
the “Bounty Track”.
NPC: “Non-Player Captain” – A term used for Naval 
ship Captains and Pirates not controlled by any 
player. NPCs are represented by plastic minis on 
the board, just like players.
Pirate: Any player with at least one bounty or one of the 
black NPC ships.
Non-Pirate: Any player without a Bounty or the 
merchants that can be found on the board, 
represented by Merchant Tokens.
Event Cards: Cards drawn at the beginning of each turn 
which have a general effect on the game. Event 
Cards also bring NPCs into play and activate them 
for movement.
Stash
Players can stash their Gold in their home-port. Every 
10 Gold stashed counts as a Glory Point (up to 5 points 
in a 10 point game).
Points from stashing gold are not received as the player 
stashes it, but rather secretly count towards the total 
of points. The other players know how many times a 
player has stashed but they don’t know the exact amount 
he stashes. So while the Glory Point track gives an 
impression of who’s in the lead, there is still room for 
surprises!
Keeping Gold hidden?
The amount of Gold a player earns or spends is 
open information, but the exact amount of Gold a 
player has on his ship is in principle secret unless 
a rule requires it to be disclosed. The player may 
stack the Gold or cover it with Cargo Cards (Gold 
and Cargo Cards share space on the Player Board) 
but must keep it on the Player Board.
Demand Tokens
Plastic Ships
Coins
Merchant Tokens
Special Weapon Tokens
Ship Modification Tokens
Naval Tokens
Bounty Tokens

The Captains
Players take on the role of one of the 16 Captains 
included in the Captain Deck. Each Captain has four 
skills with values ranging from 1-4. The values determine 
the amount of dice he/she rolls whenever a skill check is 
required.
Seamanship is a measurement of the Captain’s 
abilities at sea and is crucial during Naval Combat.
Scouting is used for finding other ships, allowing 
you to engage them. Scouting is also used for 
finding treasures, hidden islands or other things 
at sea spoken about in rumors (see “Acquire a 
Rumor” on page 9).
Leadership is used to see how well you lead your 
crew during Crew Combat and how willing new 
crew members are to join your cause.
Influence is a measurement of your Captain’s 
reputation, and how many influential people he/
she knows around the Caribbean. You use Influence 
to earn the trust of employers and for acquiring a 
rumor at the local tavern.
A Captain Card also lists your Captain’s Special Ability 
(or Abilities) and Home-Port.
Special Ability is a unique ability that a Captain has. 
Captains with more than one special ability have lower 
skills than those with only one.
Home Port is the port where your Captain is from and 
is listed below the Captain’s name. The nationality of the 
port is also the nationality of your Captain. Normally 
when you are wanted by a nation, you no longer have 
access to that nation’s ports. In your home port however, 
you know all the ins and outs and all the right people. 
Therefore, you can enter your home port, even if you are a 
pirate.
The Ships
The game includes five different Ships: Sloops, Flutes, 
Frigates, Galleons and Man-o-Wars. Each ship has its 
own miniature with the exception of Galleons and Man-
o-Wars, which share the same miniature. Each kind of 
ship has a Ship Card which displays its characteristics.
Ships have five important characteristics, all of which 
range from 1-5. Note that a ship can never have a value 
higher than 5, regardless of any Ship Modifications 
purchased during the game.
Toughness determines how hard your ship is to sink or 
cripple.
Cargo is a the maximum number of Cargo Cards you 
can have onboard your ship.
Crew indicates the amount of combat-ready crew your 
ship can have, and has at the beginning of play. When 
you lose all your Crew, you will not be able to fight 
if boarded, nor are you able to commence boarding 
yourself.
Cannons represent the firepower of your ship. The more 
“Cannons” the more devastating your ship is.
Maneuverability indicates how agile and responsive your 
ship is and helps preventing merchants from escaping 
during Merchant Raids. 
Additionally, if your ship’s Maneuverability value is two 
or more higher than your opponent’s, you add a die to your 
Seamanship rolls during combat! 
While you can claim or buy new ships during the game, 
you have to get rid of the old one. You can never have 
more than one ship at a time.
Time Limits and Game Length
The game ends immediately if either of the following 
occurs:
•	 There are no more Event Cards at the beginning 
of a turn.
•	 A Captain dies, and there are no more Captains 
left to draw.
In both cases, the winning player is the one who has 
the most Glory Points. Resolve ties as explained in 
“Winning The Game” on page 3.
For experienced players, an average game takes about 45 
minutes per player. If you want a longer game, you can 
adjust the amount of Glory Points needed to win. Each 
extra point adds about 10-20 minutes of playing time.
Dice and Skill Checks
The game includes 10 dice where the numbers 5 and 6 
are replaced by a skull icon 
.
Throughout the game you will be prompted to roll 
your Captain’s skills. To make a skill check you roll the 
number of dice equal to the value your Captain has in 
a specific skill. To make a successful roll you need at 
least one result of a 
 icon. For instance if you have 
an Influence skill of 3 you would roll 3 dice and need to 
roll at least one skull to be successful. Sometimes it may 
be relevant how many successes you make. This means 
adding up the amount of dice that came up with a 
successful result (a skull).
The numbers 1-4 on the dice have various uses during 
combat, such a determining hit-locations and resolving 
ties (see “Combat” on page 14).

Game Setup
The Player Board
Each player gets a Player Board. The Player Board is used 
to keep track of Cards, Gold, Cargo, and the condition of 
your ship.
At the start of play, each player follows the following 
steps:
1)	 Select the color you wish to play and take the 6 
cubes and miniatures of that color. Also take one 
of the stash containers which you will use for 
stashed Gold.
2)	 Randomly draw a Captain from the Captain Card 
deck – do not reveal which Captain you draw.
3)	 Secretly choose a ship for your Captain by placing 
it in your hand. You can choose between a Sloop 
and a Flute. Select the Sloop if you want a highly 
maneuverable ship suitable for piracy, or pick the 
Flute to get a vulnerable, but capable merchant 
vessel.
All players now simultaneously reveal their Captain and 
their chosen ship.
1)	 Take a Ship Card corresponding to your chosen 
ship. Place it and your Captain Card on your 
Player Board.
2)	 Place the ship miniature of your chosen ship in 
the home-port of your Captain on the Game 
Board.
3)	 Draw a Glory Card.
4)	 A Cube is placed on each “Hit Location” so that 
it matches the values on your ship card. “Hull” 
and “Masts” correspond to the “Toughness” value 
while the other locations match the names of 
the values on the card. So if you have a ship of 
toughness 2, you place a cube in the second space 
of that location. If you place the cubes for a Sloop 
correctly, all locations will have a cube in the 
second space, except for “Cannons” which has a 
cube in the first space.
5)	 Take 10 Gold. This is the Gold you have at the 
start of play
Start Player
Determine the starting player by taking each player’s 
Captain cards and drawing one. The player owning the 
drawn Captain is the starting player and turns proceed 
clockwise from that player. This turn order is maintained 
throughout the game. 
Merchant or Marauder?
•	 A Captain’s special ability can often give you 
a hint.
•	 Scouting is arguably the most important 
skill for a pirate, although Seamanship also 
plays an important role. 

The Game Board
The Game Board is divided into 17 Sea-Zones. 16 of 
these have a port associated with them, represented by 
a national icon from one of the 4 nations in the game 
(Dutch, English, French and Spanish). 
Most Sea-Zones have a unique advantage or 
disadvantage which is written in each Sea-
Zone. This Sea-Zone information can also be 
found on the Player Aids.
The borders of all Sea-Zones have a direction 
letter corresponding to a direction on a 
compass. These are used for NPC movement.
At the upper-left of the board you will find 
the “At War!” space, used to show which two 
nations are currently at war.
The top-center of the board is used for 
placing NPC Captains as they are drawn
In the top-right corner is a table for tracking NPC 
damage (“The Enemy!”) and spaces for placing defeated 
“Merchants” tokens. Lastly, at the bottom of the map, 
you will find the Glory Point track ranging from 0-10.
Setting up the Game Board.
1)	 Shuffle all the decks (except the Ship Cards) and 
place them face-down near the Game Board. 
Shuffling the Event- and Cargo- decks thoroughly is 
very important!
2)	 Randomly place one Demand Token face up in 
each Sea-Zone. Place the tokens on one of the 
two square areas close to each port. The remaining 
8 Demand Tokens are put in a pile face down (or 
in a cup) next to the Game Board for later use. 
Note that the ‘Caribbean Sea’ Sea-Zone does not get 
a Demand Token as there is no port there.
3)	 Randomly place a Ship Modification token face-
down in the second square area of each Sea-Zone.
No Ship Modification token is placed in the 
“Caribbean Sea” Sea-Zone.
4)	 Randomly place one Merchant Token (nationality 
side down) in each Sea-Zone including ‘The 
Caribbean Sea’.
5)	 Draw two Mission Cards. Read them aloud and 
place each card on the Game Board in the Sea-
Zone listed on the card.
6)	 Place a cube from each player on number zero of 
the Glory Point track and place 5 brown cubes 
somewhere in the “The Enemy” table, ready for 
use when a player vs. NPC battle occurs. 
Dutch
English
French
Spanish

Playing the Game
Turn Sequence
1) Draw Event Card 
2) Player Actions (in turn)
Once all players are finished, begin a new turn by 
drawing a new Event Card.
Draw Event Card
The start player draws an Event Card. If the card has 
any NPC icons at the top, these are resolved first (see 
“NPC Movement” on page 13). Then the text of the Event 
Card is read aloud. The effect of each Event Card is 
explained in detail on the card itself. Some cards have an 
immediate effect, while others have an effect that takes 
place on each player’s turn or at the end of the entire 
turn. Once the effects of the card have been carried out, 
put the card in a discard pile unless stated otherwise.
There are 34 Event Cards in the game. If there are no 
more Event Cards to draw, the game ends (see “Time 
Limits and Game Length” on page 4).
Actions
Next, the players perform their actions, starting with the 
first player and proceeding clockwise. Every time you 
have your turn you may perform three Actions, and have 
the following three actions to choose from:
•	 Move
•	 Scout
•	 Port
You may combine different actions, allowing you for 
instance to spend two actions to “move” twice, and then 
the third action to “scout” for a ship.
Move
Use the “move” action to move between adjacent 
Sea-Zones or to and from ports. Each separate move 
equals an action. Move your ship miniature to show your 
movement, and place it on a port if you move to port. 
Movement is the same, regardless of ship type.
Example: Frances Wright is in Havana and 
wants to go to Nassau. On her turn she moves 
from Havana out into the Havana Sea-Zone 
(1 action). Then from there to the Nassau Sea-
Zone (1 action) and then lastly moves to the port 
of Nassau (1 action). Now all her three actions are 
spent. Any business in the port of Nassau must be 
done on her next turn.
Scout
Select the “scout” action to try find and attack a ship 
present in your Sea-Zone. Announce which of the 
following you “scout” for:
•	 A Player Captain in the same Sea-Zone
(not in port)
•	 An NPC in the same Sea-Zone
•	 A Merchant in the same Sea-Zone
(represented by a Merchant Token)
Roll your Captain’s Scouting skill. If successful, you 
find the ship you scouted for after which a battle takes 
place. Battles against players and NPCs are elaborate 
affairs (see “Combat” on page 14) while the resolution 
of a Merchant Raid is faster and more abstracted (see 
“Merchant Raids” on page 10).
You may not scout for the same target twice during the 
same turn. However, you may scout for another target in 
the same Sea-Zone, or move to another Sea-Zone and 
“scout” if you have enough actions.
Example: A Player starts his turn in the same 
Sea-Zone as both another player and a Merchant 
(represented by a Merchant Token). He takes a 
“scout” action and declares that he wishes to find 
the player Captain in the same Sea-Zone. He 
makes a Scouting roll and fails. He may now spend 
a new action to “scout” again, but may not “scout” 
for the same player again. Instead he “scouts” for 
the Merchant.

Port
When you are in a port you may (once per turn) take 
the “port” action to do any number of the following port 
activities:
•	 Sell Goods (must be your first port activity)
•	 Buy Goods
•	 Visit Shipyard
•	 Recruit
•	 Acquire a Rumor
•	 Claim a Mission
•	 Stash Gold (home-port only)
If you wish to “Sell Goods” then this must be your first 
activity. You may perform all the other activities in any 
order you wish. An activity can only be performed once, 
and must be completed before a new one can be made.
Sell Goods
Declare which of your goods (Cargo Cards) you wish 
to sell. All goods can be sold for the price of 3 Gold per 
card. However, the good in demand (the good displayed 
on the Demand Token next to the port) can be sold 
for 6 Gold. Sold Cargo Cards are placed face-up in the 
Cargo Card discard pile.
When you sell the “Good in Demand”, you randomly 
replace the Demand Token with a new one from the 
reserve pool. After changing the Demand Token you 
cannot sell any more goods that turn.
Note: The numbers and icons on the lower half of the Cargo Cards 
are unrelated to the value of a good. They are used during Merchant 
Raids for determining how much Gold is onboard ships you plunder.
Example: If you drew these 6 Cargo Cards, you could buy the Spice card for 3 
Gold, Cocoa for 2 Gold per card and Rum for only 1 Gold per card! You can turn 
a good profit by buying goods that are in large supply and selling them in a port 
where they are in demand.
Buy Goods
Draw the top 6 Cargo Cards and keep them to yourself. 
Discard any cards featuring the good in demand and 
draw new ones to replace them. The cards you have 
drawn are the goods available to you this turn (there are 
8 different types of goods).
The base price per Cargo Card is 3 Gold. If you draw 
two of the same good, the price for that good drops 
from 3 to 2 Gold per card. If you draw 3 or more cards 
displaying the same good, you can get that good for just 
1 Gold per Cargo Card.
Select which cards you wish to buy, pay their cost, and 
put them face down on your Player Board. If you buy any 
goods at a reduced price verify your reduced price to a 
player of your choice. The person you showed your cards 
to may not disclose what they are in any way.
Put the cards you don’t buy in the discard pile face up. 
Likewise, if you discard old Cargo to make room for 
newly bought Cargo, you also discard them face-up.
When the Cargo deck runs out, shuffle it thoroughly and 
place it face down.
Note:
•	 If you “buy goods” in the same port two turns in a row, 
you only draw 3 Cargo Cards.
•	 While in port there is no limit to how many Cargo 
Cards you may posses. However, once you leave port 
you must discard any cards in excess of your ship’s 
current “Cargo” value.
Visit Shipyard
At the shipyard you can buy Repairs, Ship Modifications, 
and Special Weapons for your ship. It is also at the 
shipyard you can buy a new ship and sell your old one.
Buy
Sell
Sloop
Flute
Frigate
Galleon
Repairs (per point of damage)
-
Ship Modification
*1
Special Weapons (per Token)
*Cannot be sold separately, but add a value of +1 Gold when 
selling your ship.
Buy/Sell Ships:
When buying a new ship, you must sell your old one. 
Modify the above sales price by:
•	 +1 Gold per Ship Modification.
•	 - 1 Gold per point of damage 
(disregarding damage to “Crew”).
If you sell a ship with Ship Modifications, these now 
re-enter the game (see “Ship Modifications” below). 
When you buy a new ship you bring the “Crew” from 
your old ship.
You can never be “ship-less” – you must buy a new ship 
when selling your old one. If that isn’t possible, then you 
can’t sell your ship. 
Note that the Man-o-War cannot be bought nor 
sold. It can only be obtained by a hostile takeover and 
must be abandoned when acquiring a new ship!
Buy Special Weapons:
Special Weapons can be bought in any port for the price 
of 3 Gold per token. You can only have one token of each 
Special Weapon, but all three if you wish.
Read about how Special Weapons are used in combat on 
page 15, and during Merchant Raids on page 10.
Repair
You can repair damage to your ship for a price of 
2 Gold per point of damage. This includes damage to all 
locations except for Crew which must be recruited (see 
“Recruit” on page 9).
Buy Ship Modification:
The only Ship Modification that can be bought 
in a given port is the one represented by its “Ship 
Modification” token. Face-down tokens are revealed in a 
given port right after the “port” action is taken.

Recruit
On a successful Leadership roll you can fill up your 
“Crew”. If the roll fails, “Crew” may be recruited for 
2 Gold each. Your “Crew” can never exceed the “Crew” 
value of your ship.
Acquire a Rumor
Pay 2 Gold and roll your Influence skill to try catch a 
rumor. If successful, draw a single Rumor Card. Read it 
to yourself and place it on your Player Board face-down. 
You may only have one Rumor Card at a time. You may 
acquire a new Rumor, but must choose which one to 
keep. Shuffle rejected rumors back into the deck.
Rumors typically require you to go to a specific port or 
Sea-Zone and roll either Influence or Scouting during 
a “port” or “scout” action (indicated with a skill icon). 
When taking the required action, present the rumor and 
roll the skill required. If you fail the roll, the rumor was 
false and the card is discarded. If successful you obtain 
what was promised by the rumor. Then discard the card 
unless stated otherwise (Like the Forged Documents 
rumor below).
Glory Point! When a rumor is found to be true and 
its effect has been resolved, you get a Glory Point and 
therefore also a Glory Card (see “Glory Cards” on page 12)
Claim A Mission
The mission deck is full of different missions offered by 
various personalities in the game, such as Governors, 
nobles, merchants and pirates.
At the top of every Mission Card you will see listed:
Earn: The amount of Gold or other benefits
you can earn.
Req: Requirements to claim the mission.
Location: The port where you can claim the mission.
If you attempt to take a mission, but fail (for instance, 
failing an Influence roll), then unless stated otherwise the 
mission stays in play. A new attempt to take the mission 
(or another mission in the same port) can be made next 
turn during a new “port” action.
When you have claimed a mission, put it face-up on 
your Player Board. Then draw a new mission from 
the Missions Deck and place the new mission at the 
location listed on the card. That way there are always two 
available missions throughout the game. You can only 
have one mission at a time, but can discard a mission 
upon claiming a new one.
Glory Point! Completing a mission earns you a Glory 
Point, and therefore a Glory Card (see “Glory Cards” on 
page 12)
Stash Gold
When in your home-port you may stash all or part of the 
Gold you have on your ship by placing it in your stash 
container. When stashing, you are hiding your Gold in 
a safe location where other players can’t touch it. Every 
10 Gold you stash secretly counts as 1 Glory Point. 
Remember: only half of the winner’s points may come from 
stash!
You must declare to the other players when you stash 
Gold, but you don’t have to tell them how much you are 
stashing. Likewise, the total amount of Gold you have 
stashed through the game is secret as well.
The only time you are required to let the other players see 
how much Gold you have stashed is when you declare 
that you have 10 Glory Points.
When you are in your home port you may freely spend 
Gold from your stash or move it onto your ship.
When you buy a Ship Modification you take the 
token and place it on your Player Board on the area 
corresponding to the modification you bought. The 
port now no longer sells any Ship Modifications. You 
cannot buy more than one of each of the same type of 
Ship Modification. Generally, you cannot transfer Ship 
Modifications from ship to ship – only in St. John as you 
can see in the St. John info text on the board.
Note that most of the combat related ship modifications do 
not have an effect during Merchant Raids. They are mainly 
used for the elaborate Player vs. Player or NPC battles.
Extra Hammocks: Adds +1 to the ship’s 
“Crew” value (the extra crew must be 
‘recruited’). Your ship’s “Crew” can never 
exceed 5.
Advanced Rigs & Sails: Adds +1 to the 
ship’s Maneuverability value. 
Reinforced Hull: Flip this token to absorb 
1 point of damage done to any hit-location 
(after hit-locations have been determined). 
“Repair” the token for 3 Gold in any port to 
refresh its ability.
Extended Cargo Hold: Adds +1 to the 
ship’s Cargo value. Move your “Cargo” hit-
location cube up one step. A ship’s “Cargo” 
can never exceed 5.
Chasers: Flip this token to inflict a hit 
after you or an opponent declares the “Flee” 
action. Flip it face up after combat has 
ended.
Extra Cannon Port: Adds +1 to the ship’s 
“Cannons” value. Move the “Cannons” 
hit-location cube up one step. “Cannons” 
can never exceed 5.
Swivel Guns: Just prior to Crew Combat 
(at sea), roll 2 dice. Inflict one hit to enemy 
“Crew” on one or more successes. It does 
not matter who initiated the boarding. 
Long Guns: Prior to the first round of 
Naval combat you roll a die for each of your 
“Cannons”. Inflict a hit for each success. 
Chain- and Grape- shots cannot be used.
When a player ship with Ship Modifications is sunk, 
sold or discarded, the player owning the ship must 
immediately distribute the Ship Modification tokens. 
They are placed randomly, and face down in any port of 
his or her choosing, currently without Ship Modification 
tokens.
Tip: Stash or spend your Gold when you can to avoid sailing around with too much Gold onboard. If you get sunk 
you would lose all that Gold, or even worse; another player can take your Gold if he boards and defeats you. This 
means in one swift blow he would gain a Glory Point and potentially a few more when he stashes all your hard 
earned Gold. If you start feeling the pressure and you are far from your home-port, perhaps upgrading to a larger 
ship might be worth considering.

Merchant Raids
Merchant Tokens
Merchant Tokens are used to represent merchants that 
can be engaged and plundered. As the merchants are 
raided the Merchant Tokens are removed from the board 
and placed face-down on the Merchant track found on 
the game board.
If the track contains 8 Merchant Tokens at the 
beginning of a turn (prior to drawing an Event Card), 
then blindly distribute them face-down so that each 
Sea-Zone again has one.
Merchant Nationality
After declaring your intent to “scout” for a merchant, 
you roll your Scouting skill. If successful, you remove 
the Merchant Token from the Sea-Zone and reveal the 
nation on its flip side. The nationality of the merchant 
is then either that on the token, or of the Sea-Zone you 
are in (i.e. Spanish if in the Santo Domingo Sea-Zone). 
You decide which of the two, and ultimately if you want 
to engage the merchant at all. You may wish to let it sail 
away if the nations you can choose between are nations 
you don’t want to mess with (the token is still removed 
and placed on the Merchant track).
Merchant Raids
Important: You can only perform a Merchant Raid if 
none of your ship’s hit-locations are destroyed (i.e. have 
been reduced to zero).
Merchant Raids are performed by drawing Cargo 
Cards. The Cargo Cards you draw determine if the raid 
is successful, what cargo is onboard and how much Gold 
you will plunder from the ship you raid. Go through the 
following steps:
1)	 Draw 3 Cargo Cards and place them face up in 
front of you.
2)	 Roll your Captain’s Seamanship (
)
3)	 One at a time you may use each success to:
• Draw an additional card
• Discard a card or
• Exchange a card
Note that it is completely permissible to draw an 
additional card, and then use another success to 
discard or exchange the newly drawn card. Both 
discarded and exchanged cards are placed in the 
Cargo Card discard pile and are ignored.
Now determine if the raid was successful by 
referring to the icons in the lower right corner of 
the remaining cards.
Hit Icon: Each Hit Icon inflicts a point of 
damage to your ship. The damage is inflicted 
to the location written within the Hit Icon. 
If your Hull is destroyed your ship sinks and 
your Captain dies. If any other location is destroyed you 
survive, but the raid fails, and further hits to a destroyed 
location are transferred to your ship’s hull.
Escape Icon: If the final number of 
Escape Icons equals or exceeds your ship’s 
Maneuverability, then the merchant managed 
to escape. (Hits from hit-icons are still applied)
Note: half of the cards have an Escape and half have a Hit.
If the merchant did not escape or destroy one of your 
hit-locations, then your raid was successful.
On each of the remaining cards you will see a number 
ranging from 1-5 (3 being the most common value). 
These numbers are called “Plunder Value” and equal the 
amount of Gold you raid. Additionally, you may keep any 
of the remaining Cargo Cards you have room for.
Glory Point: If you successfully plunder a merchant for 
12+ Gold you gain a Glory Point and therefore Glory 
Card! (see “Glory Cards” on page 12)
Special Weapons during Merchant Raids
After rolling your Seamanship skill you may spend a 
Special Weapons token to convert a failed die into a 
success. You may spend several tokens on the same roll 
if you wish. It makes no difference which type of token 
you spend – they have the same effect when spent during 
Merchant Raids.
As each Special Weapons token costs 3 Gold it can be 
quite expensive, but they can mean a huge difference.
Example: Frederico da Silva decides to make a 
Merchant Raid. He draws these three Cargo Cards 
and makes one Seamanship success.
For that reason the only sensible thing do to is to 
either discard the Tobacco Cargo Card or draw a new 
one in its place. Frederico does the latter.
He may use that success to draw an additional card, 
discard a card or redraw and replace one of the above. 
There is no chance of the ship escaping since only 
one Escape icon came up (on the Rum card) and 
Frederico’s Sloop has a Maneuverability of 4.
As it stands now, his Sloop takes two hits, one to its 
“Masts” and one to its “Cannons.” As his Sloop only 
has one Cannon it means his “Cannons” hit-location 
is destroyed thus resulting in a failed raid.
While the new card has a Plunder Value of 5 he takes 
a hit to his Sloop’s “Cargo” meaning he can keep one 
less Cargo Card. However the raid ends a success and 
keeping the Gold and one Cargo Card is better than 
nothing! He plunders 10 Gold and decides to keep 
the Rum card as Rum is ‘in demand’ in a near-by port. 
Unfortunately he does not get the 12 Gold needed to 
get a Glory Point.

Bounties & Rewards
Getting Bounties
Bounty Tokens are used as indicators of how wanted you 
are by the authorities.
You get a Bounty immediately after:
1)	 Starting combat with a non-pirate ship 
(This includes Merchant Raids)
2)	 Defeating a Naval ship 
(Sinking it or winning Crew Combat)
The Bounty you get is always tied to the nation 
violated. So when engaging a Spanish Merchant you 
put a Spanish Bounty Token on your Player Board at 
the bottom of the “Bounty Track” where it says “1” – 
indicating you have 1 Spanish Bounty. Likewise if you 
engage a French (non-pirate) Player Captain you get 
a French Bounty and place it on the “1” space of the 
“Bounty Track”.
When you get an additional Bounty from a nation, 
you move the token in question up the track. So when 
getting a second Spanish Bounty you move the Spanish 
token up the track from “1” to “2” – The French Bounty 
Token is unaffected and remains in place. The “Bounty 
Track” goes as high as “5” which is the maximum amount 
of Bounties you can have from any single nation.
Removing Bounties
Generally speaking, once you get a Bounty your Captain 
is stuck with it. However, a few Glory Cards and Event 
Cards let you pay Gold to be pardoned. Likewise a few 
rumors or missions offer you some form of pardon.
When you reduce a nation’s Bounty to zero you may 
remove that nation’s Bounty Token from your Player 
Board. This indicates that you are completely pardoned 
by that nation and can play as if you never had a Bounty 
from that nation.
Rewards
Defeating a player pirate can be a quite profitable 
business. For each Bounty a nation has put on a 
Captain’s head it is willing to pay 5 Gold for his demise. 
After defeating a pirate player you can immediately 
claim 5 Gold per bounty from one of those nations (you 
cannot get a reward from a nation that has a bounty on 
your head, or which your nation is at war with).
Example: You have just defeated a Pirate player 
with 3 Bounties from Spain and 1 from England. 
Claiming the 15 Gold reward from Spain would 
be nice, but since you have a Bounty from Spain 
yourself, you can only choose to claim the 5 Gold 
reward from England. 
Rewards when defeating NPC Pirates
Defeating an NPC pirate earns you a reward based on 
ship type (on the assumption that the bigger the ship 
the bigger the crimes). Defeating the Pirate Sloop earns 
you 5 Gold and defeating the Pirate Frigate earns you 
15 Gold. Only non-pirates can claim such a reward.
Example 1: Two players are in the same Sea-
Zone – one French and one English. At this 
point neither of them have any Bounties and are 
therefore ‘non-pirates’. The French captain has a 
large amount of Gold on board which proves to 
be too tempting to the English captain. After a 
successful Scouting attempt he engages the wealthy 
player and immediately receives a French Bounty 
due to the criteria “Starting combat with a non-
pirate ship”. This means that before any dice are 
rolled the English captain is now officially a pirate. 
So as the battle begins, the wealthy French player 
can fight him off without getting a Bounty himself.
Example 2: A pirate player “scouts” and declares 
he wishes to make a Merchant Raid. He flips 
the Merchant Token and sees that he has found a 
Spanish merchant. The player then announces that 
he wishes to go through with the Merchant Raid 
and thus immediately gets a Spanish bounty.
Example 3: In a bold move a player chooses to 
engage a Dutch Naval ship. This immediately gets 
him a Dutch Bounty as the Naval ship is regarded 
a ‘non-pirate’. The player also manages to win the 
battle and defeats the Dutch Naval ship. This gains 
him yet another Dutch Bounty due to the criteria 
“Defeating a Naval Ship”!
Effects Of Bounties
Generally, you cannot enter ports belonging to the 
nations you are wanted by. However, you can always 
enter your home-port and the pirate infested port of 
Port Royale allows you to enter for a small fee or an 
Influence roll (as described in the Sea-Zone info text on 
the board).
Wanted by the Authorities: Naval Ships will attack you 
(see “Hunt Priority” on page 13).
Pirate Truce: NPC Pirate ships will no longer attack you 
(see “Hunt Priority” on page 13).
Worth a lot of Gold: The amount of Bounties you have 
from one nation indicates how much Gold that nation 
is willing to pay for your head – 5 Gold per bounty. Thus 
the more Bounties you have the more attractive it is 
for the other players to hunt you down (see “Rewards” 
below).

Glory Cards
Getting Glory Cards
You get a Glory Card whenever you get a Glory Point. 
As explained in “Winning The Game” on page 3, you get 
Glory Points and thus Glory Cards for:
•	 Defeating a Player or NPC 
(Defined as surviving and winning naval- or crew- 
combat)
•	 Selling 3+ Cargo Cards at a port where the goods 
sold are ‘in demand’.
•	 Plundering 12+ Gold in a Merchant Raid
•	 Completing a Mission
•	 Finding a Rumor to be true
•	 Buying a Galleon or Frigate 
(Only once per Captain)
Glory Cards can be played to help your Captain or make 
things troublesome for your opponents.
You are limited to a hand-size of 4 Glory Cards. You 
may still draw a fifth card and decide which of the five 
cards to discard. At this point it is forbidden to play 
Glory Cards, regardless of what the card says. In other 
words, you may not draw a fifth card and then play it 
or any of the other cards on your hand. You must first 
decide which 4 cards to keep.
Playing Glory Cards
Unless stated otherwise on the card, you can play Glory 
Cards freely during your turn, except during combat. 
Here only cards meant for combat can be played (see 
“Combat” on page 14).
Some cards are played during another players turn. If 
you wish to play such a card then announce it when the 
card says it must be played (without revealing the specific 
card). Other players may now announce if they also wish 
to play cards at this point. Players place their announced 
cards in front of them. Resolve the cards in turn order, 
starting with the current player. A player may decline 
to play his announced card once it’s his turn, but must 
reveal the card he intended to play.
Specialists
Some Glory Cards (and a small number of missions 
and rumors) give you the option of hiring Specialists. 
Specialists are masters of their trade and enhance your 
Captain’s ability to stay at the top of his game.
There are 8 types of Specialists. Carpenters, Gunner 
Captains, Master Gunners, Surgeons, Lookouts, 
Masters-at-Arms, Pursers and Sailing Masters. There are 
two of each type available in the Glory Card deck.
On each Specialist Glory Card is listed what you need 
to do or pay in order to hire them. Once hired, place the 
card face up on your Player Board.
You may employ any number of Specialists, but only one 
of the same type.
Non-Player Captains
Non-Player Captains (NPCs) are Captains and 
ships not belonging to any player. NPCs can be either 
Naval ships or Pirate ships and are physically present 
on the Game Board as plastic miniatures. The following 
describes all the rules governing their behavior.
Bringing NPCs Into Play
NPCs are brought into play by Event Cards, such as the 
“Dutch Naval Ship” and “Pirate Sloop”. The Event Card 
deck holds 12 Admirals (3 of each nation) and 6 Pirates 
(3 Sloops, 3 Frigates). Each card holds information on 
the skill values of the Captains, which is why they are 
placed face up on a designated area on the board when 
drawn. 
When such a card is drawn you follow the instructions 
on the card. Basically, it tells you to place an NPC ship in 
a specific Sea-Zone at the end of the turn. 
To tell the brown Naval ships apart, a large Naval Token 
is placed below each one as they enter the game. The 
Pirate Frigate and Sloop are black and need no tokens as 
they are distinguishable from Naval ships and from each 
other.
There can only be one Naval ship from each nation in 
play at a time, and at most two pirates – the Sloop and 
the Frigate.
If you draw an Event Card of a ship already in play, you 
(at the end of the turn) place that Event Card on top of 
the old one and move the miniature to the Sea-Zone of 
the new card. This represents that the previous ship was 
called to duty elsewhere. If the new Captain dies, he is 
replaced by the card below it and the miniature is moved 
back to that Captains home-port – again, at the end of 
the turn. If there are two cards below it, then randomly 
draw one of them to determine who the replacement will 
be.
Example: The “Dutch Naval Ship” and its Admiral 
Philips van Almonde is drawn during the game. 
A brown Frigate with a Dutch Naval Token 
below it is placed in Curaçao. After a few turns a 
second “Dutch Naval Ship” is drawn. At the end 
of that turn, the new card is placed on top of the 
old Dutch Admiral card and the Dutch Frigate is 
moved from its current location to the one on the 
newly drawn card.
Later the Dutch Admiral is killed and his card is 
discarded. This means that Admiral Philips van 
Almonde re-enters the game at the end of the turn 
and his Dutch Frigate is moved back to Curaçao.

Hunt Priority
During the game NPCs will “Scout” for and move 
towards Player Captains living up to a set of criteria 
called Hunt Priority.
NPCs are hostile towards any player Captain living up to 
one or more of its Hunt Priorities.
NPC Movement
Half of the Event Cards feature three NPC icons at 
the top. These icons activate specific NPCs and move 
them in the order they are listed on the card (if they are 
present on the board).
Each NPC will move in the direction listed on its icon: 
North, South, East, West.
All Sea-Zones borders have directional letters printed on 
them. If an NPC cannot move in the direction printed on the 
card, it will move clockwise to the next available Sea-Zone.
Move the French Naval ship
Move the Spanish Naval ship
Move the Dutch Naval ship
Move the English Naval ship
Move the Pirate Sloop
Move the Pirate Frigate
Hunting Player Captains
An NPC will ignore a directional letter if it is in the 
same or adjacent Sea-Zone as a player living up to one 
or more of its Hunt Priorities. Instead it will move – or 
stay – so that it ends up in the Sea-Zone of the targeted 
player.
Example: A Dutch Naval ship in Basse-Terre 
is activated and supposed to move North. In 
Bridgetown, an adjacent Sea-Zone, a Pirate Player 
with an English bounty is located (in port, but 
that is of no consequence). This means the pirate 
lives up to the second Hunt Priority of the Naval 
ship. Therefore the Naval ship does not move 
North, but instead moves East so that it ends up in 
Bridgetown.
If several players within reach live up to an NPC’s Hunt 
Priorities, it will move to the Sea-Zone with the player 
Captain living up the most to its 1st priority. If tied, move 
to the 2nd priority, and then the 3rd.
Example: A French Naval ship in Basse-Terre is 
activated and supposed to move south. However, 
two player Captains nearby live up to its Hunt 
Priorities. It will therefore ignore the instruction to 
move south and instead move towards one of the 
two players.
In Basse-Terre is a Player Captain with 2 Spanish 
Bounties and in Caracas is a player Captain with 
1 Spanish, 1 Dutch and 1 English Bounty. None 
of the players live up to the French Naval ships 1st 
priority (pirates with French bounties) and are in 
that sense tied on the 1st priority. However both 
live up to its second priority and the Captain with 
the 3 Bounties from other nations does so the 
most. Therefore the French Naval ship moves to 
Caracas after its target.
In the event that two players tie on all criteria, then 
determine randomly who is targeted by draw of Captain 
Cards.
NPC Ships in Combat
NPCs in combat are controlled by another player with 
an interest in doing his or her best to secure victory. If 
there are any issues over who gets to control an NPC, 
then the player to the left of the player fighting the NPC 
controls it.
The player can freely control the NPC, with only one 
exception: The “Flee” action may not be chosen unless the 
NPC has less Cannons or Crew than the Player Captain 
it is up against (see “Combat” on page 14).
In the top-right top corner of the Game Board, you will 
find an area meant for placing cubes for NPC ships. Place 
a brown cube on the track of each hit-location so that it 
corresponds to the NPC ship in question (for instance a 
frigate would have a cube placed on the third space for all 
its locations). NPC ships that are not sunk or defeated 
are replenished once combat has ended. You do not keep 
track of NPC damage from battle to battle.
Naval Ships hunt for:
1)	 Player Captains that have a Bounty from the 
Naval ship’s nation.
2)	 Player Captains that have Bounties from other 
nations.
3)	 If At War: Player Captains of enemy 
nationality. 
Pirate Ships hunt for:
1)	 Non-Pirate Captains with Gold on board.
2)	 Non-Pirate Captains with Cargo on board.
3)	 Non-Pirate Captains with no Cargo or Gold
Scouting
Hostile NPCs will “scout” for a target player immediately 
if one of the following occurs:
1)	 The Player moves into the Sea-Zone of a hostile 
NPC (including moving from port out to sea).
2)	 The Player starts his turn at sea in the same Sea-
Zone as a hostile NPC.
If the NPC succeeds its Scouting roll a battle ensues (see 
“NPC Ships in Combat”). If the NPC survives, all its 
damage is repaired upon its next battle.
Note that the Scouting skill of Naval captains has 
an icon next to it. It means that the Scouting skill of 
the captain is either the value listed or a value equal 
to how many matching Bounty Tokens the target has – 
whichever is the highest. For instance if a player has 5 
Dutch bounties a Dutch Admiral would have a Scouting 
skill of 5 vs. that Captain!
Rules for multiple NPCs in a Sea-Zone:
•	 All NPCs can share Sea-Zones. However:
•	 NPC pirates in the same Sea-Zone as any 
Naval ships will not “scout” for players.
•	 Two Man-o-Wars (brought into play by the 
“War” Event Card) in the same Sea-Zone do 
not “scout” for players.
•	 If multiple hostile NPCs in the same Sea-Zone 
find the same player, then determine the order in 
which the battles take place randomly (by shuffling 
the NPC Event Cards in question, and drawing 
them in random order).

Combat
Action!
(Win, tie or lose refers to the Seamanship contest roll)
Shoot Win: Inflict a hit with all your “Cannons”.
	Tie or Loss: Inflict a hit with each die that came up 
a success (up to the number of “Cannons” on your 
ship).
Board Win: You board the enemy ship. Naval Combat 
ends – proceed to Crew Combat*.
Flee Win: If your opponent made no successes, then 
you escape the battle and combat ends.
* Cannon-hits, if any, are applied before you manage to 
board. Proceed to Crew Combat unless your ship is sunk (you 
die), or you lose your last “Crew” (in which case the Naval 
battle continues).
Example: You win the first Seamanship contest and 
hit with all three of your Frigate’s cannons. In spite 
of losing the contest, your opponent (who also 
chose to “Shoot”) made two successes. However, 
his Sloop only has one Cannon and therefore 
only inflicts one hit rather than two. Next round 
you “shoot” again, and your opponent tries to 
“board” you. You make one success and he makes 
two successes and wins the contest. Before being 
boarded you get to inflict your single hit. The hit 
destroys your opponent’s “Masts”, but it is too late 
– you have been boarded! 
location is considered “destroyed”. Further hits to destroyed 
locations are transferred directly to the ship’s Hull!
Damage to- and destruction of locations has the 
following effects:
Hull: If destroyed, your ship sinks. You lose the battle 
and your Captain dies.
Cargo: Each point of damage means your ship can carry 
one less Cargo Card. Cargo Cards in excess of your 
cargo capacity are randomly removed.
Masts: If destroyed, you only roll one die during 
Seamanship contests and can only select the “shoot” 
action.
Crew: If destroyed, you can’t select the “board” action and 
automatically lose Crew Combat once it begins.
Cannons: You inflict one less hit for each point of 
damage. If destroyed, you can’t inflict any cannon-
hits.
If you survive combat with destroyed hit locations, it is 
assumed that your remaining seamen make enough basic 
repairs to move around on the Game Board. However, if 
you are engaged again you are still subject to the effects 
of any destroyed hit locations. In other words, your ship 
works well enough to get around (typically going to port 
for repairs), but remains crippled in a combat situation. 
Additionally, you cannot make any Merchant Raids 
with destroyed locations. 
Hits inflicted by two players the same round are inflicted 
simultaneously. A player therefore gets to inflict hits even 
if sunk, or if he/she loses any cannons.
Crew Combat
Crew Combat takes place immediately after one 
player boards another (or as a result of some rumors or 
missions).
Every round both Captains roll their Leadership skill 
simultaneously. Each success inflicts a hit to the enemy 
crew. The maximum amount of hits you can inflict in a 
round is equal to how many “Crew” you have (prior to 
rolling).
Captains who lose all their “Crew” lose the battle, die, 
and the winner may plunder the ship (see “Plunder” on 
page 15).
Note: If both Captains lose their last “Crew” the same round, 
the battle is won by the Captain who made the most successes. 
Resolve ties by adding up numbers on the dice that did not 
come up as successes. If still tied, combat ends with no winner. 
Tips:
• Shoot is the action most likely to generate a result, 
since hits may be inflicted even if the Seamanship 
contest is lost.
• Boarding is neutral in terms of chances of success.
• Flee is the hardest action to perform since to escape it 
requires that your opponent made no successes.
Naval Combat
1) Declaration:
Each player declares their combat action 
(aggressor declares first, and “Shoot” is the only 
available action the first round)
2) Seamanship contest: 
Roll Seamanship to see who out-maneuvers the 
other and gets to perform his chosen action 
(+1 die to a Captain whose ship has a 
maneuverability that is 2 or more higher than his 
opponent’s)
3) Action! 
The winner of the Seamanship contest performs 
his chosen action:
• Shoot: Winner inflicts a hit with all “Cannons”.
Loses/ties result inflicts one hit per success.
• Board: Naval Combat ends. Crew Combat 
begins.
• Flee: Escape! If your opponent made no successes.
 
Repeat if Naval Combat hasn’t ended.
Declaration
Once combat begins it continues a number of rounds 
until a Captain has lost or has escaped. Each round 
the players declare which combat action they wish to 
perform (starting with the aggressor i.e. the Captain that 
engaged the battle). The first round “shoot” is the only 
available action, but on the subsequent rounds players 
can choose one of the following actions:
• Shoot: Try to hit the enemy ship with cannon-fire.
• Board: Try to board the enemy ship.
• Flee: Try to escape from the battle.
Seamanship Contest
After declaring an action, each player rolls his Captain’s 
Seamanship skill in what is called a Seamanship contest. 
The Captain who wins the roll (rolls the most successes) 
out-maneuvers his opponent and gets to perform his 
selected action. If no Captains get any successes, no one 
wins – proceed to the next round.
Resolve ties by adding up the numbers on the dice that 
did not come up as successes. If still tied, then proceed to 
the next round (after inflicting cannon hits, if any).
Add 1 die to a Captain’s Seamanship skill, if his or her 
ship has a Maneuverability that is 2 or more higher than 
the enemy ship. 
Hit-Locations & Damage
In order to determine hit-location, a die is rolled for each 
cannon that hits its target. All locations except “Hull” 
have a number next to them and when that number 
is rolled, the location is hit. For every 
 rolled, the 
target decides which of the five locations is hit (unless 
the attacker chooses to use any Special Weapons – see 
opposite page). Inflict the “number” hits first and then 
the 
 hits. 
A hit-location cube is moved down 1 step for each hit 
received (i.e. rolling two 2s means your opponent moves 
the “Masts” hit-location cube down two steps). When 
a cube is moved below 1, the cube is removed and the 

Glory Cards During Combat
Player Captains participating in battles may play Glory 
Cards with combat effects. The cards state when they 
are supposed to be played and at that time a player 
can declare the intent to play a card. If the opponent 
is another player Captain, he too may then declare 
he wishes to play a card with a similar timing. Cards 
are then resolved (aggressor’s card first). Then, if no 
new cards with similar timing are declared, the battle 
continues.
Special Weapons
There are three types of Special Weapons. “Grappling 
Hooks” used to increase the chance of boarding, and 
“Grape Shots” and “Chain Shots” that are used for better 
control over which hit-locations you hit.
You may have only one of each Special Weapon token.
Grappling Hooks: After a Seamanship contest 
roll where you choose to “board”, you may spend 
(discard) your Hooks to re-roll any number of 
your dice.
Chain-shots & Grapeshots:
Normally rolling a 
 for hit-location, means that the 
target gets to decide where the hit is inflicted. Change 
that by spending (discarding) either a Chain- or 
Grapeshots token after rolling hit-locations.
Chain-shot: Each 
 you rolled inflicts a hit to 
your enemy’s “Masts”. Hits to a destroyed “Masts” 
location are never transferred to “Hull” in a round 
where you used Chain-shots.
Grapeshot: Each 
 you rolled inflicts a hit to 
your enemy’s “Crew”. Hits to a destroyed “Crew” 
location are never transferred to “Hull” in a round 
where you used Grapeshots.
Example: A player in a Frigate hits another ship 
with 3 cannons. He rolls three dice and rolls two 
 and a 
 (i.e. two hits to locations of the 
target’s choice and one certain hit to “Crew”). First 
the hit to “Crew” is inflicted, then the two 
 
hits are inflicted. Rather than letting the target 
decide where the two hits go, the player spends 
his Grapeshot. The two rolls of 
 are then 
converted into hits to “Crew” – a devastating total 
of three hits to “Crew”. As the target only had two 
“Crew” to begin with, the location is destroyed. 
However, the third hit to the destroyed “Crew” 
location is not transferred to “Hull” as normal since 
Grapeshots were used.
See page 10 for information on how Special Weapons are 
used during Merchant Raids.
Plunder
Plundering Player Captains
If you defeat a player in Crew Combat (regardless of 
who initiated the boarding), you may take the player’s:
•	 Gold on board
•	 Glory Cards
•	 Cargo Cards
•	 Rumor Card
•	 Special Weapons
•	 Ship (see claiming ships)
•	 Specialists (see below)
Any employed “Specialists” can be transferred to your 
ship at no cost. Discard any specialists you can’t (or don’t 
want to) employ. If the player was a pirate, you get a 
reward based on how many bounties the defeated player 
had (see “Bounties & Rewards” on page 11).
Any Mission Card the player may have had is discarded.
Plundering Naval Ships
When you win Crew Combat against a Naval ship (no 
matter who initiated the boarding) you:
•	 Draw 3 Cargo Cards and get an amount of Gold 
equal to the Plunder Value on the drawn cards.
•	 Randomly discard a Cargo Card for each hit the 
Naval ship took to its cargo. The remaining goods 
are yours to keep.
•	 Keep the ship, if you wish (see “Claiming Ships” 
below).
Plundering NPC Pirates
The pirate Frigate and Sloop have no cargo or Gold 
onboard. However, if you are a non-pirate and you defeat 
a pirate ship (sink it or win Crew Combat), you get a 
Gold reward.
• 5 Gold for defeating a Sloop
• 15 Gold for defeating a Frigate
Claiming Ships
When you win a boarding battle over an NPC or Player, 
you may discard your current ship and claim the one 
you fought. You may transfer: Cargo, Special Weapons, 
Gold and all your cards freely to the new ship. However, 
Ship Modifications cannot be transferred! (see “Buy 
Ship Modification” on page 8 for information on how 
to redistribute Ship Modifications from a ship that you 
discard).
Dying & Retirement
If your Captain dies you must discard:
•	 Your Captain
•	 Your Cards
•	 Your Ship
•	 Your possessions on the ship 
(Special Weapons, cargo, Gold)
•	 Your Bounty Tokens
You draw a new Captain with which you continue on 
your next turn. If you died on another player’s turn, you 
simply enter the game again when it’s your turn.
Your new Captain is imagined to have advanced as far in 
his career as your previous one. For that reason you keep 
the number of Glory Points you have and any Gold you 
may have stashed (now located in the home-port of your 
new Captain).
Follow the Player Board setup instructions on page 5, 
with two important differences:
1)	 If there is a pirate NPC located in the Sea-Zone 
of the Captain you draw, you may draw another. 
2)	 You only receive 10 Gold from the game if you 
have no Gold stashed. If you have less than 10 
Gold stashed, you take all the Gold you can from 
your stash and the game will supply you with the 
remaining Gold up to 10.
Retirement
If you grow tired of your Captain, or end up broke and 
with a heavily damaged ship, retiring may be a sensible 
option.
To retire you must start your turn in a port and retire 
before performing any actions. Then, on your next turn, 
you go through the same steps as when dying, after 
which your new Captain starts his adventures.

Felipe wins the roll and this time inflicts three hits. He rolls 
three dice to determine hit-locations.
He rolls:
“Cargo” (The second to that location – it is now 
destroyed)
“Cannons” – This location was already 	destroyed, 
and therefore the hit is transferred to Frances’ “Hull”. 
Another hit to “Hull” and Frances will be sent to Davy 
Jones’s Locker!
Normally Frances would be allowed to decide where the 
last hit goes (as a skull was rolled). However, concerned 
Frances might escape, Felipe spends his “Chainshot” 
token to direct the hit to Frances’ “Masts”.
Round 4
Felipe “shoots” again and Frances decides that her best chance 
of survival is to “Board” Felipe’s ship.
Frances loses the roll, which results in another three hits from 
Felipe’s Frigate – completely devastating. However Frances has 
a trick up her sleeve. She decides to use her “Grappling Hooks” 
which allows her to re-roll any of her dice when attempting to 
“board”. On her re-roll she makes two successes and manages 
to board Felipe’s ship. Before Crew Combat begins, Felipe 
gets to inflict his one hit. Rolling a 
 he hits and destroys 
the “Masts” on Frances’ sloop. However, this does not affect 
Frances’ boarding (unlike if her “Hull” was hit again). Crew 
Combat begins.
Crew Combat
Felipe and Frances now roll their Leadership skill. Hits to 
“Crew” are inflicted on successes. Felipe has a Leadership of 2 
and Frances has a Leadership of 3. Conversely Frances only has 
two “Crew” while Felipe has three.
Round 1
Felipe inflicts one hit to Frances, and Frances inflicts two hits 
to Felipe (Even though she made three successes she can only 
inflict two hits as she only has a “Crew” of two).
Both now have one “Crew” left.
Round 2
Both Frances and Felipe inflict a hit to the others “Crew”. The 
result would be that both get their “Crew” reduced to zero. 
Felipe would win as he made the most successes.
However Frances is up to her tricks again. She declares she 
wishes to play a Glory Card. Felipe may now declare the 
intent to play a card at this point in 
the battle, but declines (he has no 
relevant cards).
Frances plays the “Crew Combat Re-
rolls” card. This allows her to re-roll 
any of her own or an opponents dice 
during Crew Combat. She forces Felipe 
to re-roll. He makes no successes the 
second time around. Now Felipe has a 
card to play. He plays the “Fast Learner” 
card which allows him to duplicate the 
text of a recently played card.
He re-rolls again:
Both have made a single success, but 
Frances wins the tie (the sum of her other 
dice is 5 while Felipe’s is 2).
Frances wins the battle.
A Combat Example
Naval Combat
Round 1
Felipe was the one to attack Frances, so Felipe declares his 
action first. The first round, only the “shoot” action is available.
Felipe has a Seamanship skill of 3. He 
rolls 3 dice and makes single success.
Frances rolls three dice as well. Two 
because of her Seamanship of 2 
plus an extra die because her ship’s 
Maneuverability is two higher than Felipe’s Frigate (Normally 
a Sloops Maneuverability is only one larger than that of a 
Frigate, but Frances has bought the “Special Rigs and Sails” 
Ship Modification which increases her Sloop’s Maneuverability 
by one).
They both make a success, but Frances wins the roll since her 
other dice add up to a higher number than Felipe’s (5 vs 2).
As a result both Felipe and Frances inflict one cannon hit. Had 
Felipe won the roll he would have hit Frances’ Sloop with all 
three of his Frigate’s cannons. Frances wins the roll but only 
inflicts one hit since her Sloop only has one “Cannon”. They 
both roll a die to determine hit location. Felipe rolls a 
 
which corresponds to the “Cargo” hit-location, and Frances 
rolls a 
 – “Crew”.
Felipe immediately uses his Special Ability of “re-locating one 
hit per battle”, and redirects the hit to his “Cargo”.
Round 2
Felipe declares to “shoot”, and Frances decides to try to “Flee” 
since she is badly outgunned.
Once again they roll an equal number of successes and once 
again Frances wins due to a higher total on the remaining 
dice. However, for Frances to escape the battle it would have 
required that Felipe made no successes at all. But winning 
the roll was not without its benefits. Felipe still only hits with 
one cannon rather than three (had he won). Felipe rolls for 
hit-location and rolls a 
, matching the “Cannons” hit-
location on Frances’ Sloop. Frances can no longer shoot as her 
“Cannons” location is destroyed.
Round 3
Felipe declares to “shoot” and Frances tries to “Flee” once more.
Vs.