● 1 Metropolys game board
 
● 52 buildings, numbered 1 to 13 in 4 colors: blue, red, white, and gray 
 
● 1 player aid entitled “Welcome / Secret objectives” 
 
● this booklet
Game design by Sébastien Pauchon – Illustrations by Mathieu Leyssenne – Layout by Cyril Demaegd
FAQ & forum: http://www.ystari.com
CONTENTS
ONCE UPON A TIME…
PREPARATION
GOAL OF THE GAME
TWO GAMES IN ONE
To make the game more enjoyable, two versions of Metropolys are included in these rules: Family and Expert. These 
versions should not be considered as mere variants, but rather as two different games. 
The Family version allows young players to grasp the ins and outs of building placement. On the other hand, the Expert 
version makes each placement a crucial choice. Serious players may prefer the latter.
These rules present the Family version first and then the modifications to play the Expert version.
FAMILY
EXPERT
● 9 “trendy
neighborhood” tokens
● 9 “subway”
tokens
● 9 “archaeological
 site” tokens
● 1 “archaeological
site” card 
● 1 “subway” card
● 4 “Area” 
● 5 
“Neighborhood” 
● 5 “Area” 
● 5 “Highest 
building” tokens
● 1 player aid
● 1 player aid
The awe-inspiring Metropolys is burgeoning! Talented urban 
planners and architects compete with each other to make 
luxurious, elegant buildings of glass and steel that seem to 
defy the laws of gravity and balance. Who will eventually 
impose their style to leave an indelible mark in the history of 
the city? The answer is in your hands!
NB: These rules are for 4-player games. Adjustments concerning the number of players are explained at the end of the 
rules. Before starting your first game, please read the “Welcome” player aid. 
● Place the board in the center of the table. For your first game, lay out the neighborhood tokens as shown in the “Welcome” 
player aid. For subsequent games, the players may use a random layout by placing 7 tokens in the center district and 5 
tokens in each peripheral district. Do not place any tokens in blind alleys (that is, neighborhoods surrounded by water with 
only one way out). Place the subway and archaeological site cards next to the board. 
● Shuffle the 4 area cards of the Family version. Each player takes a card, looks at it in secret, and places it face down near 
him (his play area). NB: area cards are described in the “Secret objectives” player aid. 
● Each player chooses a color and takes the corresponding 13 buildings. Players choose a starting player. 
The players are urban planners in quest of prestige. Over 
the course of the game, they try to construct their buildings 
in the best places. As soon as a player has placed all of his 
buildings, the game ends. The player with the most prestige 
is the winner.

The game is divided into turns. Each turn represents a call for proposal from Metropolys. At the end of each turn exactly 
one building is constructed. The game continues until one of the players places his last building. 
PLAYING THE GAME
The first player chooses one of his buildings (of any value) and places it in one of the neighborhoods which is not occupied 
by another building. The building number must be visible. Then, playing clockwise, players may either Outbid or Pass. 
1) Outbidding
To outbid, a player must place one of his buildings (of a higher value than the one which has just been placed with the 
number side up) in an orthogonally adjacent neighborhood (to the building being outbid!). Any building with a higher cost 
will do. Of course, the chosen neighborhood must be unoccupied. Crossing bridges is allowed, but lakes and rivers are 
impassable. 
2) Passing
A player who passes may not place another building during this call for proposal (turn). Any buildings he may already have 
placed stay on the board until the end of the current turn. NB: a player who has no buildings left (or no buildings with a 
sufficient value) must pass. 
CALL FOR PROPOSAL
END OF THE CALL FOR PROPOSAL
The call ends in one of three ways:
1) All the players, but one, have passed,
2) No one can place buildings because the most recently placed building has no adjacent neighborhood,
3) No one is able to outbid the most recently placed building.
In every instance, the player who placed the last building (the last bid) wins the call for proposal and actually builds that 
building by turning it over to the side which bears no number. The building will remain there until the end of the game. If 
there is a token on the neighborhood where the building has been placed, the player takes it and places it in his play area. 
All the players take their unbuilt buildings (that is, those with a visible number) back. Finally, the player who has just won the 
call for proposal becomes the new start player and starts a new turn. 
Example: Blue starts with a 3. Gray outbids with a 7. Red may only outbid by placing a building in the neighborhood 
containing a trendy neighborhood token, and chooses to do it with a 9. White, who is interested in the subway token, bids 
with a 10. Now, Blue would have to bid with at least 11, but the player thinks the cost is too high and passes. So does 
Gray. Red, whose area card is the Bridges card, is willing to pay 11. White passes. Red is the only remaining player and 
wins the bid on the call for proposal...
Example (cont’d): turn the red building over and it remains 
in place. Remove all the other buildings used in the course 
of this call for proposal from the board. Red must start a 
new call in an empty neighborhood of his choice anywhere 
on the board. 
Example: Gray starts a new turn. The player may grab the 
neighborhood shown at a low cost, since it is impossible 
for anyone to outbid (there is no empty neighborhood 
adjacent to it). Gray places his 1 building and wins the call 
for proposal. The player turns the building over, takes the 
trendy neighborhood token, and starts a new turn…

END OF THE GAME
The game ends as soon as any player has built his last building. All players reveal their secret cards and count their 
points:
● For each “Trendy neighborhood” token a player owns, he earns 3 prestige points, 
● For each “Subway” token a player owns, he earns 1 prestige point,
● The owner of the “Subway” card earns 3 prestige points, 
● For each “Archaeological site” token a player owns, he loses 1 prestige point,
● The owner of the “Archaeological site” card loses 2 prestige points, 
● For each building a player has constructed next to the type of area indicated on his “Area” card, he earns 3 prestige 
points. 
The player with the most prestige points wins the game. In case of tie, the tied player who has constructed the most 
buildings wins. In case of a new tie, the tied players share the victory.
SPECIAL CARDS
TOKENS
IMPORTANT ADVICE
To make the most of the game, follow the following advice when you play.
● Avoid building all your most expensive buildings too fast, or you will have a difficult time outbidding other players in 
subsequent calls for proposal!
● When a neighborhood becomes isolated (for example, next to a blind alley) because of a building you just placed, it is a 
good idea to immediately construct your lowest-valued building in that neighborhood. This will move you closer to ending 
the game and it may prevent your opponents from getting a neighborhood important to them.
● Try to guess what your opponents’ secret cards are as soon as possible! These knowledge may be important during calls 
for proposal.
Subway: these tokens mark the location 
of a subway station. Such gold-plated 
locations are especially sought after by the 
inhabitants of Metropolys. In the course of 
the game, the player who owns the most 
Subway tokens wins the “Subway” special 
card (see below).
Archaeological sites: these tokens mark 
the location of ancient ruins. They are 
not prized by urban planners, since they 
slow down construction projects and cost 
prestige. The archaeological site special 
card (see below) is taken and held by the 
latest player who gets one of these tokens. 
Trendy neighborhoods: these tokens 
mark the location of a trendy neighborhood. 
Urban planners who place a building in such 
a neighborhood will earn a lot of prestige.
Subway: this card comes into play as soon as a player earns a 
subway token. The player takes the card and keeps it in his play 
area until another player has earned more subways tokens. In 
such a case, the latter player takes the card. As a consequence, 
the card may change hands several times during the game. 
NB: if two players have the same number of tokens, the card does 
not change hands. 
Archaeological site: this card comes into play as soon as a 
player earns an archaeological site token. The player takes the 
card and keeps it in his play area until another player gets an 
archaeological site token. In such a case, the latter player takes 
the card. As a consequence, the card may change hands several 
times during the game. 
At each turn, both special cards (the subway card and the archaeological site card) may come into play and may change 
hands.
A player who builds in a neighborhood containing a token earns it. Collected tokens will yield or cost prestige points at the 
end of the game.

The game ends as soon as any player has built his last building. Then the players reveal their secret cards and count their 
points:
● In each district, the player who has constructed the highest building (in terms of height, not value) takes a highest 
building token which is worth 5 prestige points. In case of tie, the size of their second highest buildings (or, if necessary, of 
their third highest buildings, and so on) decides between the tied players. If the tie cannot be settled, each of the tied players 
takes a 5 point highest building token.
● For each trendy neighborhood token a player owns, he earns 3 prestige points, 
● For each subway token a player owns, he earns 1 prestige point,
● The owner of the subway card earns 3 prestige points, 
● For each archaeological site token a player owns, he loses 1 prestige point,
● The owner of the archaeological site card loses 2 prestige points, 
● For each building a player has constructed in the type of neighborhood indicated on his neighborhood card, he earns 2 
prestige points. 
● For each group of buildings satisfying the requirements of the player’s area card, the player earns the number of points 
indicated on the card. NB: each building may only be used once to earn an area objective. However, one building may be 
used to earn both an area objective and a neighborhood objective. 
The player with the most prestige points wins the game. In case of tie, the tied player who has constructed the most 
buildings wins. In case of a new tie, the tied players share the victory.
EXPERT GAME
The preparation is identical to the one in the Family version, except the players do not deal the 4 area cards of the Family 
version. Instead, shuffle the 5 area cards of the Expert version. Each player takes a card, looks at it in secret, and places it 
face down in his play area. Discard the remaining area card without looking at it. Go through the same process with the 
neighborhood cards. 
PREPARATION
END OF THE GAME
The play of Metropolys is the same as the 4 player version. However, the play area is smaller and fewer neighborhood 
tokens are used:
● In 3 player games, one of the peripheral districts is not used. The players will not be able to place buildings in it. Remove 2 
subway, 2 archaeological site, and 1 trendy neighborhood tokens from the game. Place the remaining tokens normally (i.e. 
7 tokens in the center and5 in each peripheral district). 
● In 2 player games, 2 adjacent peripheral districts are not used. Remove 3 subway, 3 archaeological site, and 4 trendy 
neighborhood tokens from the game. Place the remaining tokens normally (i.e. 7 tokens in the center and 5 in each peripheral 
district). Furthermore, when playing the Family version, remove the Borders area card. 
2 AND 3 PLAYER GAMES
In addition to all the testers, both occasional and regular, and the team of the Ludothèque de Boulogne-Billancourt, the 
author would like to thank Rüdiger Dorn and the Hans im Glück team who, although unknowingly, were at the basis of this 
game. Indeed, the first time I read through the rules of Goa, I saw the illustration on page 4, and interpreted it as depicting 
the mechanism you have just discovered in Metropolys. I was wrong, but the seed was sown… 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Example: here, Blue, having built the highest building, gets the 
token.
Example: here, Red gets the token. Blue and Red both have 2 
tall buildings, but Red has 1 more building.
The play of the Expert game is similar to the Family version. However, the players must take into account additional 
objectives that yield points at the end of the game. 
The highest building: in this version, the height of the buildings 
becomes important. Each player has 5 small buildings (1 to 5), 4 
medium buildings (6 to 9) and 4 tall buildings (10 to 13). At the end 
of the game, the highest building tokens are taken by the players 
who have built the highest building in each district. 
Objectives: in this version, each player takes two secret objectives: 
neighborhood and area. These area objectives are different than 
those of the Family version. The objectives of the Expert version 
require the construction of several buildings. These goals are 
detailed in the “Secret objectives” player aid.

WELCOME
SECRET OBJECTIVES
A
B
C
D
E
F
0G
H
0I
Welcome to our beautiful city of Metropolys! Let me be your guide for a short tour that will certainly delight you…
Our city has five districts: Center, North, South, West, and East. These districts are separated by the river (A); within each 
are the picturesque neighborhoods which give Metropolys its charm. Behold, our flourishing industry (B), our enchanting 
parks (C), our stylish lodgings (D), our attractive malls (E), and our prestigious administration centers (F).
Be sure not to miss one of the numerous statues (G) adorning the neighborhoods and take some time to linger by one of our 
lakes (H). To end the tour, I suggest that you watch the sunset from one of those magnificent bridges (I). And by all means, 
don’t forget your guide!
Bridges: at the end of the 
next to a bridge.
with several bridges yields 
Statues: at the end of the 
next to a statue.
with several statues yields 
Lakes: at the end of the 
next to a lake.
with several lakes yields 
Borders: at the end of 
the 
game, 
the 
player 
scores 3 prestige points 
for each building he has 
constructed on the borders 
of Metropolys.
NB: this card is not used in 
2-player games.
FAMILY GAME

EXPERT GAME
At the end of the game, the player earns 2 prestige points for each building he has constructed in a neighborhood of the kind featured on 
his card.
SECRET OBJECTIVES
NEIGHBORHOODS
Mall
Administration
Industrial
Park
Lodgings
Bridges: at the end of the game, the player 
scores 4 prestige points for each group of 
two buildings he has constructed on both 
sides of a bridge. 
linked to two bridges is only counted 
once. 
Statues: at the end of the game, the player 
scores 7 prestige points for each group of 
three buildings he has constructed around 
a statue. 
between two statues is only counted 
once. 
Lakes: at the end of the game, the player 
scores 5 prestige points for each group of 
at least three buildings he has constructed 
around a lake.
between two lakes is only counted once.
Districts: at the end of the game, the player scores 4 prestige 
points per district where he has constructed at least three 
buildings.
NB: building three or more buildings in a district yields only 4 
points.
Chains: at the end of the game, the player scores 4 prestige 
points per chain of three buildings he has constructed.
NB: each building may only be used to attain an objective once! 
Thus the same building may not be counted in two chains. 
AREAS