Paris, 1900.
The World’s Fair is in full swing throughout the city. 
But amid the revelry, strange scaffoldings are appearing
and streets are being excavated, creating long and deep
tunnels… 
The construction of the Paris Metro system 
is underway!
Game Designer: Dirk Henn
Graphics: Franz Vohwinkel
Development: Bernd Dietrich 
For 2 to 6 players
8 years old and up
GAME RULES

Total number of
players (6, for
example)
The player who has the
purple-colored card owns
Metro line no. 5.
One of this player's stations: number 9, "Place de Clichy."
Metro track 
sections
Arrow indicating the
direction that the tile
must face on the board
Game Components
• 60 Track Tiles
Each tile has 4 sections of track. 
Each tile side contains 2 track connectors. 
Also, a red arrow shows the direction the tile
must always face when placed on the board.
• 6 "Metro Line" Cards
Each card contains a different color, and is
numbered from 1 to 6. 
Depending upon how many players are in the
game, the cards will show the stations owned
by each player, as well as the number assigned
to each station.
• 61 Subway Cars 
These wooden cars come in six different colors.
They are used to indicate which Metro stations
are owned by each player.
• 1 Game Board 
The outer edge of the game board serves as a
0-to-100 point scoretrack.
There are 32 "Metro" (subway) stations
spread out over the board, each with its own
number. Each station has two tracks. The
players must place their subway cars on the
right side of the Metro station (the side with
no roof). This track is the one by which
subway cars can leave the station, while the
other track (the one with a roof) indicates the
end of a Metro line.
Players place tiles that form their own Metro
lines on the 60 squares of the game board.
In the center of the game board are 8 Metro
stations. The player who manages to connect
one of his Metro lines to one of these stations
doubles the points scored by that line. 
• 6 Colored Pawns 
There are 6 wooden pawns, each in a different
color. Players take a pawn in the color of their
choice. This pawn is used to keep a running tally
of their points on the scoretrack running around
the board’s outer edge.

This shows how the subway cars should be 
placed on the game board.
Game Setup
• The board is placed in the middle of the table.
• Each player receives a set of colored
subway cars, according to the following
table :
• Then, each player takes the pawn in
his color and places it on the "0"
square of the scoretrack. 
• Each player takes the "Metro Line" card that matches his color. On it are printed the names and
numbers of the Metro stations that belong to that particular player, which will depend on the
number of players in the game.
• Now, each player places a subway car in 
his color on the outgoing track in 
each station that he owns.
• Extra subway cars are returned to the box 
and will not be used during play.
• Track tiles are shuffled and placed next 
to the game board, "Metro" side facing up. 
This is the track pool.
• Each player picks up one tile and looks at it.
How To Play The Game
• The youngest player plays first. Each of the other players then take turns clockwise. 
Placing Track tiles on the board
• Each player takes a turn placing a Track tile on the board. Whenever a player cannot, or does not
want to, place the tile that he is holding, he picks up a new tile - as long as there are tiles available
in the pool - which he then must place on the board. 
These 4 conditions must be followed when laying down tiles :
1. Each tile must be placed on an empty square. 
That square must border on (be adjacent to) 
a tile which has already been played, or be 
placed along the edge of the board. A tile may 
not be placed next to one of the central 
station squares unless it completes or 
continues an existing track.
2. The red arrow on the tile must always face in the 
same direction as the red arrow on the board. 
For 2 players (16 stations) …………………yellow, blue
For 3 players (10 stations) …………yellow, blue, orange
For 4 players (8 stations)……yellow, blue, orange, green
For 5 players (6 stations) yellow, blue, orange, green, purple
For 6 players (5 stations)
……………………all colors.

These two cases (on the corner and edge of
the game board) are normally not allowed.
A Track tile may be counted several times if the line
passes through the same tile more than once.
Example :
In this example, the yellow player receives 3 points
(the line passes through only 2 tiles, but the track 
passes twice over the same tile); the green player
receives 2 points, while the orange player receives 10
points (5 tiles, which earn a double score since the
track ends in one of the central stations).
Metro lines that do not belong to anyone may sometimes be formed on the game board. These lines are
not subject to any special restrictions and do not affect the outcome of the game.
3. A tile may not be placed so that the tracks printed on it 
begin and end in the same station. The only exception 
would be if that tile could not be placed elsewhere 
(this rarely happens except at the end of the game).
4. A tile may be placed next to an opponent's 
Metro subway departure point or next to one of 
his Metro lines, but the tile must be placed according to 
the previous placement rules.
• After laying down a tile, the player picks up a new tile,
as long as one is available, unless he is already 
holding a tile. A player may only have one tile in his hand at the end of his turn.
• Players whose Metro stations are all finished by a completed network of lines must continue to
place their tiles elsewhere on the game board.
Tallying Your Score
• As soon as a Metro line forms one continuous track from its departure station to any arrival
station (either one of a player's own stations, or one belonging to another player), the points
scored by that line are tallied. Each tile that is part of a track is worth 1 point. If the line passes
over the same tile several times, the points are added up for each 
time the line passes over the tile. If the line ends in one of 
the central stations, the total number of points for that 
line is doubled.
• Each player uses his colored pawn to 
keep a running tally of his points 
around the edge of the board.
• After the points are scored, turn the 
subway car of the completed line 90º, so 
that it will not be scored twice (or, it can 
simply be removed from play).
End Of The Game
The game is over when all of the tiles 
have been placed on the board. 
The winner is the player who has scored 
the highest number of points.
Game Variations
• To increase the options in laying a tile, players can 
disregard the direction in which the arrows are 
pointing.
• Players can also choose to hold more tiles (2 or 3),
which increases play time but gives more placement options.
www.uberplay.com 
info@uberplay.com
Referral Number: MT575
American/english language
version available from:
A GERMAN 
GAMING 
COMPANY