Stop!
If you want us to teach 
you how to play, 
you can visit 
plaidhatgames.com 
and watch a video 
explanation.

I
 With Mice and Mystics, it is my hope
that friends and families can come together
for an evening of adventure and heroism,
and for a short time be transported
to a place where being small does
not mean you cannot change the world.
I dedicate this game to my 
tiny adventurers Jenna and Owen.
I am humbled by your courage.
 Jerry Hawthorne
1 rulebook
1 story book
6 mouse hero figures
16 minion figures
1 story control board
8 dual-sided room tiles
28 mouse ability cards
71 search cards
18 encounter cards
6 mouse hero cards
5 action dice
3 sheets of die cut counters
List of Components
Dedication
2.0

Initiative Cards 
There are two types of initiative cards: mouse initiative 
cards and minion initiative cards. Mouse initiative 
cards have a mouse’s name and picture on them, and 
a quick summary of their stats. Minion initiative cards 
display the stats for the associated minion(s). The 
following is an example of a minion initiative card.
Name: this is the name of the minion(s) belonging 
to this initiative card. 
Ability: this is a unique rule that applies to this type 
of minion.
Battle value: this is the number of action dice rolled 
when this minion attacks. 
Defense value: this is the number of action dice 
rolled when this minion defends.
Life value: this is the number of wounds a minion of 
this type must receive to be defeated.
Spider
Poison: All wounds 
inflicted by a Spider 
are considered poison 
wounds.
Mouse Hero Cards 
Mouse name: this is the mouse’s name.
Mouse class: most abilities and some items can 
only be used by certain classes. Some mice have 
2 classes and can use items and abilities from both 
classes.
Battle value: this represents the mouse’s ability to 
attack with a weapon.
Defense value: this represents the mouse’s natural 
defenses.
Lore value: this represents the mouse’s level of 
knowledge.
Move value: this represents how quickly the mouse 
can get around.
Abilities: these are special things that the mouse 
can do.
Starting equipment: these cards are equipped 
to the mouse at the start of a chapter unless 
otherwise stated. 
9.	
Life value: this is the number of wounds the mouse 
can receive before being captured.
Introduction 
Welcome to the rulebook for Mice and Mystics. This rulebook will teach you how to play the game, but it is intended 
to be paired with a Mice and Mystics story book. Each chapter in a Mice and Mystics story book has a specific setup 
and special rules that apply to that chapter. The story book “Sorrow and Remembrance” is included in this game. 
Mice and Mystics uses a simple set of rules that allow players to have all sorts of exciting adventures. Each chapter 
has its own special rules to give it unique storytelling opportunities. If you read through these special rules as you 
play, it can slow the game down. Therefore, we suggest that if you are playing this game with other players, you take 
some time to review the rules for the chapter prior to your game session, and help lead the other players through the 
chapter by pointing out special rules as the need arises. This little extra effort will help create a fun, flavorful, and 
overall smooth experience.
Object of the Game
Mice & Mystics is a cooperative adventure game for 1-4 players. Players take on the role of adventuring mice. 
Using teamwork, courage, and a little luck, the mice will explore their way through a series of interactive chapters as 
their story unfolds.

When attacking with this bow, all 
 
rolled count as 2 successes instead 
Accurate Bow
ARCHER or SCAMP
Name: this is the name of the weapon.
Range or melee symbol: this symbol indicates 
whether a weapon is usable at range or in melee. 
Any bonus the weapon grants is also listed here.
Type: this is the type of attack the weapon performs. 
Some minions are resistant to certain attack types.
Ability: any special rules that apply to the card are 
Paws required: this graphic indicates how many 
paws it takes to use this weapon. Most mice only 
have 2 paws available.
use this weapon are listed here.
Shifting Cloak
MYSTIC or SCAMP
Immediately after blocking all hits from 
an attack by a minion, the wearer of this 
cloak may be placed on any 
normal space on the same tile.
Name: this is the name of the armor.
Bonus: this indicates what kind of bonus the armor 
grants when equipped.
Ability: any special rules that apply to the card are 
Action Dice 
Each action die face has a variety of symbols. The 
swords 
, bows 
, and shields 
 are used in battle, 
the numbers are used for movement, and the 
 are 
used for a number of things, most often to check a 
mouse’s success at overcoming a given obstacle. 
 
Search Cards 
When attacking with this bow, all 
 
rolled count as 2 successes instead 
Accurate Bow
ARCHER or SCAMP
There are several types of search cards:
Items: items are things a mouse can carry in its 
pack and use as directed on the card. A mouse can 
carry up to 3 items in its pack. Some items have 
requirements on them. A mouse must meet these 
requirements to use the item. Scrolls are one use 
items. A mouse must discard a scroll after using it.
Tricks: tricks can be saved and used at a later time 
to gain an advantage over enemies. Tricks do not 
take up any slots on a mouse or any space in a 
mouse’s pack.
Events: event cards can either help or hinder 
the mice in their quest. Resolve event cards 
immediately when they are drawn.
Party items: party items each have special rules 
listed on page 18 of this rulebook. Party items are 
shared equally by all the mice and do not take up 
any room in any of the mice’s packs.
Weapons, armor, and accessories: mice can equip 
armor and accessories to help them along on their 
adventure. A mouse cannot attack unless it has a 
weapon equipped. 

Ability Cards
At the start of the game players will choose an ability 
card for each mouse in play. Mice can earn more ability 
cards by leveling up. 
Requirement: to use this card a mouse must meet 
the class requirement(s). 
Ability: any special rules that apply to the ability are 
Cost: This is the number of cheese a mouse must 
discard to use the ability..
Other Markers 
The game comes with a variety of other markers that 
can be used throughout the game.
Equip slots required: this graphic indicates on what 
part of a mouse's body this armor is equipped. 
Mice can only have 1 piece of armor equipped per slot.
use this armor are listed here.
ACCESSORY
Ring of Cat Strength
Add +1 to the wearer’s battle while this 
accessory is equipped. This bonus does 
not apply when using a ranged weapon.
Name: this is the name of the accessory.
Ability: any special rules that apply to the card 
are described here including any bonuses the 
accessory may grant.
use this accessory is listed here.
Encounter Cards 
There are 2 types of encounter cards included in this 
game, differentiated by their background colors. 
Encounter cards are 
used to determine 
what kinds of 
minions the mice will 
find when they enter 
a new area. The 
encounter that the 
mice will face is 
based on which page 
space the hourglass 
marker is on when 
the encounter is 
triggered. Encounter 
cards will also 
determine the next 
random surge that 
the mice must 
overcome. 
Centipede
Mousetraps
Encounter
DIFFICULT
Surge

3. 	 Flip space: mice can use an explore action while on 
a flip space to flip a tile over.
4. 	 Mousetrap spaces: spaces marked with a red X 
symbol are mousetrap spaces. Some encounter 
cards and story book setup instructions will have 
players place mousetraps. Those mousetraps go 
on these spaces.
Note: Do not confuse the term ‘tile’ with the term ‘space’. 
A tile represents a room: that room is made up of multiple 
spaces.
Story Control Board 
Chapter track: at the beginning of a chapter, place 
the hourglass marker on page 1 of this track and 
the chapter end marker on a page designated by 
the chapter that is being played through. If the 
hourglass marker reaches the chapter end marker 
before the mice have completed the chapter’s 
victory conditions, the mice have lost that chapter.
Minion cheese wheel: this wheel is where cheese 
tokens that are earned by minions will be placed. It 
triggers a minion surge when it fills. 
Search deck: this is where the search deck is placed. 
Encounter deck: this is where the deck of encounter 
cards is placed. 
Party stash: this is where tokens associated with 
party items the mice have found are placed.
Initiative track: this is the track that initiative cards 
will be placed along to show the turn order.
Room Tiles 
Room tiles are what make up the game board. Most 
chapters will have players setting out specific room tiles. 
Room tiles have two sides: a blue side and an orange side. 
Blue sides represent areas below-ground or between the 
castle walls. Orange sides represent portions of rooms 
and other common areas of the castle.
Orientation arrow: when multiple tiles are in play, 
their orientation arrows must always be facing in 
the same direction.
Exit areas: mice can use an explore action to move 
to an adjacent tile through an exit area.

Story Book
The story book included with 
this game set is called Sorrow 
and Remembrance. Other story 
books are planned for future 
releases.
The story book is an essential 
part of playing a game of Mice 
and Mystics. Players start 
a game of Mice and Mystics 
by choosing a chapter in a 
Mice and Mystics story book 
that they would like to play 
through. We suggest that groups start at Chapter 1 and 
play their way through each chapter.
A Mice and Mystics story book is made up of chapters. 
Chapters are composed of several parts.
Story text: this text helps put the players in the 
story. Have a strong reader read these sections 
aloud to the players as directed.
Chapter objective: this summarizes what the mice 
are trying to accomplish in this chapter.
Victory: this section lays out the conditions that 
must be met in order for the mice to be victorious 
in that chapter. Sometimes the victory section will 
also have a piece of story text to read when the 
victory conditions are met.
Defeat: this section lays out the conditions that, if 
met, mean the mice are immediately defeated in 
that chapter. If the mice are defeated, players can 
choose to either move on to the next chapter, or 
retry that chapter again.
Chapter setup: this gives players all of the details 
they need to help them set up the game for playing 
through the chapter, including a diagram showing 
how to setup the room tiles for that chapter.
Special chapter rules: occasionally there will be 
special rules that will apply to a chapter.
Room tile rules: some room tiles that are being 
used in a chapter will have specific rules that 
apply to that room. Each room tile that has 
special instructions will have its own section in 
a chapter along with a picture of that room tile. 
Those sections can be referred to when the mice 
first venture onto that room tile. Often these 
instructions include things like special searches 
that let mice find specific search cards by searching 
an area of that room tile, or special surges that 
instruct players on what minion(s) to place when 
a surge happens in that room (special surges take 
place instead of a surge listed on an encounter 
card). Room tile rules sections can also include 
special rules on how to set up that room tile when it 
is first explored, bits of story to read through while 
on that room, and special rules that apply while the 
mice are on that room.
The story continues: at the end of some chapters 
there is a “The Story Continues” section. Reading 
these sections aloud will help wrap up a piece of 
the story for the players.
BooK One: Sorrow and Remembrance
Chapter One:
Flight to Barksburg
Choose a player to read the following aloud:
 
rince Collin and his companions 
marveled at their new diminutive 
bodies and at the once familiar castle 
that now loomed over them like the home of a 
giant. Maginos snapped them from their reverie. 
“We must move at once!” he hissed. The party 
quickly scurried through the bars of the cell, 
their delicately padded feet making nary a noise. 
They passed under the chair of a sleeping guard 
and made for the large bag that rested against 
a nearby wall. Captain Vurst had bagged 
the weapons and other items his men had 
confiscated from them in the arrest. 
 
“Claim your belongings,” whispered 
Maginos as he and Tilda opened the bag. “You 
must make your claim aloud, but remember to 
be quiet.” Prince Collin leapt into the sack and quickly 
found his sword that was now many times too large for 
him to use. 
 
“This is mine,” he whispered, and instantly the sword 
shrunk to fit his miniscule hands. Soon Collin, Tilda, 
Nez, and Maginos had all rearmed and reequipped 
themselves. When they climbed out of the bag, they 
found Filch grinning and holding a newly acquired 
dagger in his tail. 
 
“Now where did ya get that ya little sneak?” Nez 
demanded. Filch jerked a thumb back at the sleeping 
guard. 
 
“He won’t miss it,” said Filch. “Or do you want to 
climb up and give it back?” 
 
“You cannot,” said Maginos. “The enchantment 
has ended and now our possessions are as permanently 
changed as we are.” Suddenly a shout of alarm arose 
from the cell they just escaped from, and the sleeping 
guard awoke with a jolt. “Quickly, to the sewers!” 
shouted Maginos. 
 
“Mice!” shouted the newly awoken guard, and then, 
“Now, wait a tick… mice! They’s mice!” The companions 
made a dash for the sewer grate, but stopped dead in 
their tracks when a terrible scream came from behind 
them. Turning, they watched in horror as the jail guards 
began to shrink and change shape, their bodies and 
clothing warping. 
 
“Vanestra!” Prince Collin cried. “She knows!”
Chapter Objective
Escape the castle by getting all mice to the old gnarled 
tree space in the courtyard before the hourglass 
marker reaches the chapter end marker on the 
chapter track. 
Victory Condition
Clear the courtyard tile of minions and get all 
uncaptured mice onto the tree entrance space on the 
courtyard tile.
Remove 1 cheese token for each cheese rolled 
and place it on the minion wheel. If there are 
no more cheese tokens on the counter top, the 
roaches return to their normal behavior.
Special Rule: Gaining Miz Maggie’s Attention: 
When a mouse defeats a roach, roll a die, if a 
 is NOT rolled, Miz Maggie swats that mouse 
with her mop. That mouse becomes knocked 
down and the roach that was just defeated is 
placed on the kitchen counter space. If a 
 IS 
rolled, the mice have successfully captured Miz 
Maggie’s attention. The party receives the Miz 
Maggie Ally story achievement token. Advance 
the chapter end marker 1 page on the chapter 
track. Once the party has the Miz Maggie ally 
token, do not roll to gain Miz Maggie’s attention 
any longer.
Courtyard
 
Story Moment: When the mice explore the 
Courtyard, choose a player to read the following 
aloud: 
 
The mice burst from a miniscule crack in the 
castle wall and out into the harsh brightness of the 
courtyard. Collin shielded his eyes from the glaring 
sun then nodded to the old gnarled oak that grew 
tall and twisting on the opposite side. “I climbed 
that tree many times as a child,” he said. “I doubt I 
shall be able to climb it again like this.” 
 
“You’re not so old now, my lad,” said 
Maginos, nudging him. “Besides, these new nails of 
ours are probably sharp enough for us to scamper 
right up its trunk.” 
1: The Courtyard
 
“Perhaps we should take cover at the tree 
now,” said Tilda, and she pointed at a section of 
stone wall that surrounded the courtyard. Perched 
atop the aging mortared stone was an enormous 
old crow. It cocked its head to look at the mice from 
one eye and then the other. 
 
“To the tree!” cried Maginos.
Special Rule: Tree Entrance: This space is the 
destination space for this chapter. A figure 
can only move onto or off of the tree entrance 
from the courtyard space adjacent to the hole 
in the trunk. All other courtyard spaces that 
share a border with the old gnarled tree are not 
considered adjacent. While on the tree entrance 
space, mice are safe from the old crow, but do 
not have a clear line of sight to any courtyard 
space other than the space adjacent to the 
hole. Minion figures cannot move onto the tree 
entrance space.
Special Rule: The Dastardly Old Crow: When 
rolling to move a mouse or minion, if a player rolls 
a 1 on the action die, the old crow swoops on the 
moving figure causing 1 unblockable wound.
The Story Continues... 
 
As the party neared the shadowy base of the old 
tree, they were startled by the shapes of several mice 
poking their furry heads up from the tall grasses. 
 
“This way!” hissed a mouse, and the strangers 
quickly vanished into a small hole that opened beneath 
a twisting root. This new encouragement bolstered the 
spirits of the party, even as they heard the caw of the 
vicious old crow, and the terrified shriek of the Rat it 
claimed as prey.
 
They walked through the twisting tunnel carved 
in the wood of the old tree. There was still enough light 
falling in from the courtyard entrance behind them that 
Collin could see the young, friendly faces of their hosts. 
Both had crude spears carved from twigs, and the white 
one wore a breastplate made from a walnut shell.
 
“You’re not from around here, are you?” asked the 
light brown field mouse.
 
“No,” replied Collin, and he looked questioningly at 
Maginos. Maginos gave him an approving nod, and the 
prince said, “We are from the castle.”
 
“Oh, I see,” said the light brown mouse. His white 
companion leaned over to him and whispered a little 
too loudly.
Defeat Condition
If the hourglass marker reaches the chapter end 
marker on the chapter track before the mice have 
made it to the tree entrance space, or if all mice are 
captured at the same time, the mice are defeated.
Chapter Setup
Chapter End
Place the chapter end marker on page 6 of the chapter 
track.
Party Setup
Select 4 mice to be in the party for this chapter. Lily 
cannot be one of the 4 mice selected for this chapter 
as she has not yet joined the group. 
Encounter Deck Setup
To build the encounter deck, shuffle and place 
all standard encounter cards face down onto the 
encounter area on the story control board. Difficult 
encounter cards are not used in this chapter. 
Room Tile Setup
Place the following 3 tiles as shown below: Guard 
Room, Kitchen Tunnels, and Tunnel Entrance. Place 
the 4 mice being used in this chapter on the start 
space marked below. Place 3 rat warriors on the 
Guard Room tile normally. (see ‘Placing Minions on the 
Board’ on page 14 of the rulebook).
4: Kitchen Tunnels
Special Chapter Rules
Guard Room
Special Search: Tinkerer’s 
Treasure. (Note: This item allows a 
tinkerer to search for a weapon or 
armor of their choice.)
Special Surge: 2 rat warriors.
Sewer
Special Search (in water spaces): 
Fishhook and Thread. 
(Note: This item allows mice to get 
to high places quickly.)
Special Rule: Leaving the Sewers: 
Before a mouse can use an explore action on an 
Tinkerer’s Treasure
Look through the search deck. Take 
any one weapon or armor card from 
the search deck. Place this card back 
in the search deck, then shuffle the 
search deck.
Tinkerer’s Treasure
Look through the search deck. Take 
any one weapon or armor card from 
the search deck. Place this card back 
in the search deck, then shuffle the 
search deck.
6: The Sewer
stash. See page XX of the rulebook 
Fish hook & Thread
stash. See page XX of the rulebook 
Fish hook & Thread
The white mouse 
head icon represents 
the start space.

Place figures: Place the mice figures and any minion 
figures on the board as directed in the ‘Room Tile 
Setup’ section of the chapter being played.
Determine initiative order: Shuffle the initiative 
cards belonging to each mouse and minion 
that is on the board at the start of the chapter 
and determine the starting initiative order (see 
determining initiative order on page 7).
Set up the story control board: Place the story 
control board to the side of the playing area. 
Place the hourglass marker on the first page of 
the chapter track and the chapter end marker on 
the page noted in the ‘Chapter End’ section of the 
chapter being played. Shuffle the remaining search 
cards and form a search deck on the search area 
of the story control board. Refer to the ‘Encounter 
Deck Setup’ section of the chapter being played 
for details on how to setup the encounter deck for 
that chapter.
9.	
Additional items: Place the cheese tokens, the 
minion figures, any remaining initiative and ability 
cards, and a pile of all other tokens off to the side of 
the playing area within reach of the players.
10.	 Follow any chapter specific instructions: Follow any 
further setup instructions as noted in the ‘Chapter 
Setup’ section of the chapter.
 
To setup a game of Mice and Mystics follow these steps: 
Chapter selection: Choose a chapter from a Mice 
and Mystics story book. Depending on how many 
people are playing, some players may need to 
choose and control more than one mouse so that 
the correct number of mice are in the adventuring 
party.
Choose a hero: Each player chooses their mouse 
hero (or heroes) and collects that mouse’s hero 
card, initiative card, and figure. The chapter being 
played will tell players how many mice are going to 
be adventuring in that chapter (usually four). 
Choose an ability: Players choose 1 ability card for 
each mouse that they are playing. Make sure a 
mouse meets the class requirements for the ability 
that is being chosen.
Gather equipment: Find the search cards that 
are indicated on each mouse’s starting setup and 
equip them to that mouse. Refer to the ‘Party Setup’ 
section of the chapter for any extra cards or party 
items that the adventuring party should start with. 
Set up the board: Place the room tiles in the middle 
of the playing area as shown in the ‘Room Tile Setup’ 
section of the chapter being played. Be sure to place 
the tiles so that their arrows (located in a corner of 
each room tile) are all pointing in the same direction. 
Game setup
4: Kitchen Tunnels
Draw Empathetic Power: When another 
mouse on the same tile becomes poisoned, 
stunned, cursed or webbed, Immediately add 
1 cheese to Tilda’s stash. 
Tilda’s Mace, Leather Breastplate
HEALER
TILDA
BLUNT
Tilda’s Mace
When attacking with this mace, add 1 
to this mouse’s battle during that 
attack for each wounded 
mouse that is on the same 
space as this mouse.
Leather 
Breastplate
WARRIOR or HEALER or TINKERER
“Amazing what can be crafted from 
an old shoe.”
- Tilda
Class: ANY
You may use this ability as a free action. 
Remove 1 wound marker from a mouse that 
is on the same space as this mouse. Healers 
pay one less cheese to use this ability. First 
Aid can only be used once per turn.
First Aid
First Aid
Born to Lead: When placing cards on the 
initiative track, if Prince Collin is not in the 
first initiative spot, immediately add 1 cheese 
to his stash.
Collin’s Sword, Leather Breastplate
LEADER
WARRIOR
Collin’s Sword
WARRIOR
“This is the sword my father taught 
me to fight with.”
 - Collin
Leather 
Breastplate
WARRIOR or HEALER or TINKERER
“Amazing what can be crafted from 
an old shoe.”
- Tilda
Class: LEADER
You may use this ability before taking a 
turn with this mouse. Until the end of this 
round, after a mouse performs an action, 
that mouse may spend 1 cheese to perform 
1 additional action. A mouse can only 
perform 1 additional action in this way.
Inspire
Inspire
Pilfer: After Filch defeats a minion figure, add 
1 cheese to Filch’s stash. If it was a Rat, Filch 
may take this cheese from the minion wheel if 
available.
Prehensile Tail: Filch may equip a dagger in 
his tail as if it were an additonal paw slot.
Dagger
SCAMP
When attacking with this dagger, if 
the defending minion is lower on the 
initiative track than this 
mouse, it rolls 1 less die to 
 defend against that attack.
Dagger
Class: SCAMP
You may use this ability instead of 
performing this mouse’s normal battle 
action. This mouse attacks once with each 
knife or dagger it has equipped.
Knife Strike
Knife Strike
Draw Power: When attacking, Maginos 
recieves 2 cheese for each 
 rolled instead 
Maginos’ Staff
MYSTIC
MYSTIC
MAGIC
Maginos’ Staff
When attacking a figure that is on the 
same space as this mouse, this staff 
is considered a blunt melee 
weapon.
Class: MYSTIC
You may use this ability instead of performing 
this mouse’s normal battle action. Choose up 
to a number of minions equal to this mouse’s 
current lore. Each minion figure chosen 
is attacked by this mouse with a ranged 
attack. The battle value of that attack is 3. 
Roll 3 action dice once to attack. Each minion 
defends separately.
Chain Lightning
Chain Lightning
“I’ll save the kingdom, 
just like my 
father would have.”
“Adventuring beats 
being in jail. 
If I survive that is.”
“Mystic energies 
can only be 
channeled through 
an uncluttered mind.”
“I’m oathsworn 
to protect the 
royal family.”
Aggressive: After taking 
a turn with this Rat 
Warrior card, switch 
this card with the one 
directly above it on the 
initiative track if any.
Rat Warriors
=
Character icons represent 
figures in this game setup.

follow the ambushing rules for the first of those two 
initiative cards. See page 15 for details on ambushes. 
When all of the figures associated with an initiative 
card are no longer on the game board, remove that 
card from the initiative track and move up all other 
cards to fill in the gap.
Time is Short!
If there are no minions on 
the board after the last 
mouse on the initiative 
track has taken a turn, 
place 1 cheese token on 
the minion cheese wheel.  
Continue to do this each 
time the last mouse on the 
initiative track completes 
a turn and there are no 
minions on the board.
Taking a Turn with a Mouse Hero
On its turn, a mouse can either perform 1 of the 
following actions then move, or move then perform 1 of 
the following actions:
•	 Scurry
•	 Battle
•	 Search
•	 Recover
•	 Explore
In addition to performing an action, or choosing not 
to perform an action, mice can perform any of the 
following free actions at any time during their turn:
•	 Share
•	 Equip
•	 Level up
Each free action can only be performed once during a 
mouse's turn. A free action cannot be performed in the 
middle of performing another action.
Mouse Ability Cards
A mouse can only use 
one ability card per 
turn, even if that mouse 
has multiple abilities 
that are free actions. 
Choose wisely! 
Game round
Mice and Mystics is played over a series of rounds. 
Each round is made up of turns. The first turn of 
a round is taken by the card that is highest on the 
initiative track. The next turn is taken by the next 
highest card on the initiative track, and so on. Once the 
last card on the initiative track has taken a turn, a new 
round begins. When an initiative card comes up in the 
initiative order, all figures that the card represents will 
share that turn but will take their actions separately. 
To determine in which order the mice and the minions 
will take their turns, players must first determine an 
initiative order.
Determining Initiative Order
At the beginning of a chapter, and each time a new 
encounter card is revealed, initiative order must be 
established. 
If no minion cards are on the initiative track:
Take the initiative cards for each mouse and each 
minion type that are going to be on the board at the 
start of that encounter and shuffle them together to 
create an initiative deck. Then, one at a time, take each 
of the cards from the initiative deck and place them face 
up along the initiative track that runs down the side of 
the story control board. Place the first card on the 
1 spot, the second on the 2 spot, and so on until all cards 
have been placed. 
If there are already minion cards on the initiative track: 
Simply shuffle up the initiative cards for the new 
minons that are going to be added and place them on 
the next available slots on the initiative track. If new 
minions that are being added already have an initiative 
card on the track, there is no need to add another 
initiative card to the track for those minions.
Note: If there are ever more initiative cards than available 
slots on the initiative track, follow the normal placement 
rules for initiative cards and simply allow the extra cards 
to temporarily extend the track.
Boss initiative cards
If a boss minion has more than 1 initiative card, when 
that boss is going to be placed on the board randomly 
choose 2 of that boss’s initiative cards to be added 
to the initiative track. That boss will take a turn for 
each initiative card they have on the track. If there are 
already minion cards on the track when adding a boss 
minion that has multiple initiative cards, place both 
cards at the bottom of the initiative track as usual, then 

Special Area Spaces
3: The Kitchen
There are a few larger areas in the game that aren’t 
broken into smaller spaces. (Areas like the counter in 
the Kitchen, the table in the Dining Hall, and the bed in 
the King’s Chamber.) These areas are called – special 
area spaces. Special area spaces do not follow the 
normal rule of 4 small figures or 1 large figure per space. 
Instead a special area space may contain as many 
figures as you can physically fit into the surface area of 
that space. 
Yellow and Red Lines
Yellow Lines
Each yellow line that divides two spaces is marked with 
an arrow that points in one direction. Crossing a yellow 
line against the direction of that arrow costs 3 spaces of 
movement. Crossing a yellow line with the direction of 
that arrow costs the usual 1 space of movement. 
Spaces divided by a yellow line are considered adjacent to 
one another.
Red lines
Mice cannot move from one space to another if they 
must cross a red line to do so. Spaces divided by a red 
line are not considered adjacent to one another.
Mouse Movement
At the start of a mouse turn, the player controlling that 
mouse must roll an action die. Among other symbols, 
each die face has a number printed on it ranging from 
1- 3. Add the number rolled on the action die to the 
mouse’s move value to determine the number of spaces 
that mouse can move on that turn. 
Example: Prince Collin has a move value 
of 2 and rolls a 1 on the action die. Prince 
Collin can move up to 3 spaces on 
that turn (2+1).
Adjacent Spaces
The spaces 
in this game 
are not all the 
same size and 
shape, and 
some spaces 
even have 
small gaps 
between them. To determine if spaces are adjacent, 
follow this rule of thumb: if the base of a mouse figure 
can bridge the gap between two spaces, they are 
considered adjacent. Moving a figure between those 
two spaces counts as having moved 1 space. 

Board Features
The various room tiles also have a number of graphical 
features, such as crystals jutting up from the ground 
or plates of discarded food. Any such features are 
not considered to be their own spaces, but are either 
part of the space they are within, like in the case of the 
skull in the Alchemist Chamber or the helmet in the 
Guardroom, or in-between spaces, like in the case of 
the crystals in the Crystal Tunnels. Board features 
in-between spaces can only be moved through if 
they fit the rule of thumb for moving between spaces 
described earlier. 
Black Areas and Walls
There are areas on some of the room tiles that are 
colored completely black. These areas represent solid 
rock. These areas can never be moved onto or through 
by any means. 
There are also areas of the tiles that are a graphical 
representation of a wall. These areas are not treated as 
spaces and can never be moved onto or through by any 
means. There is one exception to this rule. On the Pipes 
tile, the dark areas are representative of gaps between 
the pipes. These can only be moved through by using 
items that let a mouse cross over red lines, such as the 
Fishhook and Thread or Levitate Scroll. 

is in a water area that has a current, move that mouse 
one space in the direction of that current. If this carries 
a mouse off of the room tile, that mouse is captured. See 
the Captured Mouse section on page 17 for details.
Note: Because they are fighting against the current, mice 
cannot use free actions when on water spaces. 
Minions are not affected by water spaces in any way.
Moving across mousetraps
When a mouse moves on a mousetrap, 
it must pause its movement to find out if 
it has sprung the trap. Roll a number of 
action dice equal to that mouse’s move 
value. If the mouse is a tinkerer, a player 
can instead roll a number of action 
dice equal to its lore value. If at least 1 
 symbol is rolled, the mouse safely 
passes over the mousetrap and can 
continue moving. If no 
 symbols are rolled the trap has 
sprung and the mousetrap is removed. The mouse takes 1 
wound, collects 1 cheese token, and is knocked down. See 
page 17 for details about being knocked down. Whenever 
a mouse springs a trap, its turn immediately ends. 
Minions are not affected by mousetraps.
Mouse Actions
Scurry
If a mouse has already moved, it can use a scurry action 
to move again. To scurry, simply roll the action die 
and move again using the new roll result. All normal 
movement rules apply when using the scurry action.
Battle
Players will roll action dice to make attacks in Mice and 
Mystics. There are a number of relevant results: sword 
symbols, sword/shield symbols, bow symbols, and 
cheese symbols. When defending against an attack, 
only the sword/shield symbols and the cheese symbols 
are relevant. Whenever a player is attacking or 
defending with a mouse, if one or more cheese 
symbols are rolled, that mouse gains 1 cheese 
token for each cheese rolled. 
Melee attack
If a mouse is armed with a melee weapon, it can 
perform a melee attack. To perform a melee attack, 
first choose a target by selecting a minion that is on 
Sharing Spaces
Up to 4 small figures can occupy the same space. 
However, a large figure (such as a spider or centipede), 
takes up a full space. A space is considered to be full when 
it has 4 small figures or 1 large figure on it. A mouse or 
minion cannot move onto or through a space that is full.
When a mouse moves onto a space occupied by a 
minion, the mouse must end its move. If a mouse 
starts its movement in the same space as one or more 
minions, that mouse can only move out of that space 
if the number of mice (before moving) is equal to or 
greater than the number of minions in that space.
Moving in Water
When a mouse moves onto water, even from another 
water space, it must end its move. When a mouse 
attempts to move onto a non-water space from a 
water space, it must use its entire move to do so. That 
mouse’s player must roll an action die for that mouse 
and every mouse on the destination space. If at least 
 symbol is rolled, the mouse has successfully 
climbed out of the water. Place the mouse on the 
destination space. If a 
 symbol is not rolled, the 
mouse does not move.
Some water also has a current, signified by directional 
arrows somewhere along the path of that water. A mouse 
moving in water, cannot move against the direction of 
the current. At the end of a mouse’s turn, if that mouse 

Inflicting wounds
Wounds on non-boss minions
When 1 or more wounds are inflicted on 
a non-boss figure, refer to its initiative card. 
•	 If the figure’s initiative card shows that it only has 1 
life, that figure is defeated. Remove it from the board. 
•	 If the defeated figure was the last figure an initiative 
card represented, remove that initiative card from 
the track as well.
•	 If the figure’s initiative card shows that it has more 
than 1 life, place 1 wound marker on that figure’s 
initiative card for each wound it received. When a 
multiple life figure has a number of wounds on its 
initiative card equal to or greater than its life value, 
that figure is defeated. Remove it from the board 
and remove its initiative card from the track.
Wounds on boss minions
Boss minions normally have multiple initiative cards 
on the initiative track. Each time a mouse inflicts a 
wound on that boss, choose which initiative card to 
place the wound on. When a boss initiative card has 
a number of wounds on it equal to or greater than its 
life value, remove that initiative card from the initiative 
track. Once the last initiative card for a boss has been 
removed from the track, remove its figure from the 
board as well - it has been defeated.
“Adventuring beats 
being in jail. 
If I survive that is.”
Brodie Pounces
See page 16 of the 
rulebook for rules on 
how to pounce with 
Brodie.
See page 16 of the rule-
book for rules on how 
to chase with Brodie.
Brodie Chases
the same or adjacent space as the attacking 
mouse (see movement rules for determining 
adjacency). Then roll a number of action dice 
equal to that mouse’s battle value. Remember 
to add any bonuses that the mouse’s items 
or equipped weapons might give it. Add the 
number of sword and sword/shield symbols 
rolled for that attack. This is the number of 
hits the mouse has inflicted. 
If a mouse inflicted one or more hits, the player to the left 
of the active player rolls defense for the targeted minion 
and adds the number of sword/shield results rolled. 
For every sword/shield rolled, that minion 
blocks one of the attacking mouse’s hits. 
Each hit that goes unblocked inflicts one 
wound on the targeted minion. Whenever a 
player is attacking or defending for a minion, 
if 1 or more cheese symbols are rolled, add one 
cheese token to the minion wheel on the story 
control board for each cheese rolled.
Ranged attack
If a mouse is armed with a ranged weapon or 
spell, it can perform a ranged attack. Ranged 
attacks are performed in the same way as 
melee attacks, except each bow symbol 
counts as a hit instead of the sword or sword/
shield symbol. Also, when selecting a target 
for the attack, a player can select any minion 
on the same room tile as the attacking mouse 
as long as that mouse can ‘see’ the target. However, 
if there are minions in the same or adjacent space as the 
mouse, one of those nearby minions must be selected as 
the target of the attack.
Seeing the target
To determine if a mouse can see a target for the 
purpose of a ranged attack, draw an imaginary line 
from the center of the space the attacking figure is on 
to the center of the space the targeted figure is on. Use 
the edge of a card or this rulebook if necessary. If the 
imaginary line passes through any black areas or walls, 
then the attack or spell cannot be used. Additionally, 
there are some board features that may give the 
impression that they would block line of sight. Players 
can determine among themselves which of these 
features should block a mouse’s line of sight.

Explore
The explore action is the normal way that the mice will 
move from the room tile they are on to a different room 
tile. An explore action can only be performed when there 
are no minions on the same room tile as the mice. 
There are 2 types of spaces on which a mouse can use 
an explore action: a space adjacent to an exit area, and 
a flip space.
Exploring an Exit Area
When a mouse is on a space adjacent to an exit area, it can 
use an explore action to attempt to move to a new tile.
In order to move to a new tile, that new tile must have 
an exit area of the same color aligned with the exit area 
to which the searching mouse is adjacent. 
‘These two tiles are properly aligned. A mouse can use an 
explore action to move from the first tile to the other
There are 2 sides to every tile: a blue side and an orange 
side. If the tile the mouse is moving to has a different 
color of side facing up than the tile the mouse is on, 
flip over the tile that the mouse is moving to, keeping 
its orientation arrow facing in the correct direction. If 
there is no exit aligned on the appropriate side, the 
mouse cannot explore over to the new tile.
Search
To perform a search action, a player must 
announce that his or her mouse is searching 
and roll an action die. If a 
 symbol is rolled, 
that player draws 1 card from 
the top of the search deck. If that 
card is an item, weapon, armor, 
accessory, scroll, or trick, the 
player may either:
•	 put it into the searching 
mouse’s pack for later use, or
• 	 immediately discard it for 
1 cheese.
 If it is an event card, follow the 
directions on the card. Once 
a mouse successfully searches, the mouse cannot 
search that same tile again.
Recover
If a mouse is stunned or webbed, it can use a recover 
action to get rid of this negative effect. See Negative 
Effects on page 17 for details on being stunned and 
webbed.
Recovering From Stunned
When a stunned mouse performs a 
recover action, remove the stunned 
marker from its initiative card.
Recovering From Webbed
When a webbed mouse performs a recover 
action, roll an action die. If a 
 symbol is 
rolled, remove the webbed marker from 
the mouse’s initiative card.

Exploring a Flip Space
Flip locations are marked with this symbol:
When a mouse performs an explore action on a flip 
location, remove the mice from the room tile and flip 
it over, keeping the arrow on the flip side in the correct 
orientation. Then place all of the mice on the flip 
location located on the newly revealed side of the room 
tile (or an adjacent space if there are more than 4 mice 
in the party).
There are also two special types of flip locations:
This flip location can only be explored when the party 
has the Fishhook and Thread token available.
A flip location marked with this symbol can only be 
explored by a tinkerer or scamp.
The tile the mouse is on is orange side up. The tile the 
mouse is moving to must be flipped orange side up.
A mouse cannot explore here as there is no exit aligned 
with the exit the mouse is adjacent to.
When a mouse successfully performs an explore action 
to move to a new tile, that mouse and all of the other 
mice on the same tile are immediately placed on a 
space adjacent to the exit area on the new tile. 

it, place the ranged minions there instead. If the 
chosen space becomes full (see sharing spaces 
on page 10), choose a new space to place the 
remaining minions following the same rules.
2. 	 One at a time, place any large minions on the 
empty minion entry space that is closest to the 
mice. Players choose which space to use if multiple 
options are available. 
3. 	 One at a time, place all small melee minions on the 
remaining available (not full) minion entry spaces. 
Players choose which spaces to use if multiple 
options are available. Try to spread these melee 
minions out as much as possible. 
Whenever new minions are added, their initiative 
cards must be added to the initiative track. See the 
Determining Initiative Order section on page 7 for 
details.
Minion tokens
There are 4 Elite Rat Warrior tokens 
and 1 Captain Vurst token included 
in the game. If an encounter or 
chapter calls for elite rat warriors 
to be placed, use the rat figures but 
add the Elite Rat Warrior tokens 
under the figures to show that the 
newly added rats are actually elite 
rat warriors. Follow the same rule 
for Captain Vurst. If the encounter 
calls for rat warriors, use the rat 
figures without any tokens added 
underneath. 
Mousetraps
Some encounter cards include the 
word ’Mousetraps‘ near the top of the 
card. When an encounter includes a 
mousetrap, place 1 mousetrap marker 
on each space of the 
current room tile that 
is marked by a red ‘X’ 
symbol. For rules on 
how mousetraps work, see the Moving 
Across Mousetraps section on page 10. 
Ambushes
Some encounter cards include the word ’Ambush‘ near 
the top of the card. When determining initiative order 
for an ambush encounter, first place all minion cards 
onto the initiative track normally. Then roll an action 
die for each minion initiative card on the initiative track, 
one at a time. Move that card up on the initiative track 
a number of spaces equal to the number rolled on the 
Encounters
Each time a mouse explores an area that has not 
already been explored during that chapter, the mice 
will have an encounter. Unless otherwise stated 
in the chapter being played, draw a card from the 
encounter deck. Each encounter card has multiple 
potential encounters based on how far the chapter has 
progressed. Use the encounter that matches the page 
space that the hourglass marker currently occupies 
on the story control board. Place the new minions 
using the placement rules below, then determine an 
initiative order. Once the minions are placed, place 
the encounter card face-up on top of the encounter 
deck. If there is still an encounter card face up from 
a previous encounter, discard the old card. This new 
face-up encounter card will now determine the next 
non-chapter-specific surge effect. 
Placing Minions on the Board
When placing new minions on the 
board as a result of an encounter, or 
because of a chapter-specific rule, 
place them on the minion entry 
spaces. Minion entry spaces are 
marked with the symbol shown to the 
right. To place new minions on the board, follow this 
procedure:
Place all small minions that have range on the 
minion entry space that is furthest from the mice. 
Players choose which space to use if multiple 
options are available. If there is a special area space 
bordered in red that has a minion entry space on 

Share
When performing a share action, a mouse can freely 
exchange search cards and/or cheese tokens with another 
mouse that is on the same space or an adjacent space.
Equip
When performing an equip action, a mouse can move 
cards from its equipment slots to its pack or from its 
pack to its equipment slots. Note that a mouse can 
only have up to 3 non-trick cards in its pack at any 
one time. If a mouse would ever go over this limit, 
that mouse’s player must choose and discard 1 non-
trick card from that mouse’s pack. Cards that are in a 
mouse’s pack should be placed in a facedown stack in 
front of that mouse. Remember, trick cards do not add 
to the pack limit. 
Cards that a mouse has equipped should be placed face 
up in front of that mouse. A mouse cannot have 2 cards 
equipped that fill up the same slot, with the exception of 
the paw slot (as each mouse has 2 paw slots). Note that 
some items fill both paw slots.
Level Up
When performing a level up action for a mouse, a player 
may exchange 6 cheese tokens for 1 new ability card of 
their choice. The ability card must match the mouse’s 
class. Choose ability cards carefully as a mouse can 
only use 1 ability card per turn, even if an ability could 
be used at different times in a turn. 
Taking a Turn with a Minion
A minion’s turn consists of 2 parts:
Move 
Battle 
When a minion initiative card comes up in the turn 
order, each minion of that type will move and battle.
Minion turns are acted out by the player who controls 
the mouse lowest on the initiative track. Minions 
always act in a very specific way, as detailed below. 
When a minion’s card comes up in the initiative track, 
all figures on the board of that minion type take a 
turn, starting with the minions closest to the mice and 
moving outward.
die, scooting the cards below it down to make room. 
Ambushes do not affect the surge minions for that card.
Greedy Roaches
Some encounters include ’greedy roaches‘. Greedy 
roaches use the same initiative card as normal roaches. 
When greedy roaches are placed on the board, all 
roaches in play become greedy roaches. When a greedy 
roach steals a cheese from a mouse, that cheese is placed 
on the minion cheese wheel on the story control board.
Surges
Each time 1 or more cheese 
symbols are rolled when 
attacking or defending with 
a minion, add 1 cheese token 
to the minion cheese wheel 
for each cheese rolled. When 
there are no minions on the 
board and the last mouse on 
the initiative track ends its 
turn, add a cheese token to the 
minion cheese wheel. When the minion cheese wheel 
fills up with 6 or more cheese tokens, a surge triggers. 
Follow these steps to resolve its effect:
Move the hourglass marker one page closer to the 
chapter end marker along the chapter track on the 
story control board.
Check the chapter instructions. If there is a special 
surge rule for the room the mice are currently in, 
follow the instructions. 
If there are no chapter-specific surge instructions, 
follow the surge effect on the face-up encounter 
card that is on the encounter deck and then discard 
that card. 
If there are no room-specific surge rules and no 
face-up encounter card, no minions are placed for 
this surge, but the hourglass marker is still moved.
5. 	 After resolving the surge, remove all cheese from 
the minion cheese wheel. 
If a surge requires minion figures to be placed, and there 
are not enough of those figures available, place as many 
as possible and ignore the rest. 
Free Mouse Actions
In addition to performing an action, or choosing not 
to perform an action, a mouse can perform any of 
the following free actions at any time during its turn. 
Each free action can only be performed once during a 
mouse's turn. Free actions cannot be performed in the 
middle of another action.

represent that boss on the game board. In the case of 
a common minion where more than one figure for that 
minion exists, place a token under the boss’s base to 
differentiate it from other minions of the same type.
Note that even though they may share a type with other 
minions, they are not affected by powers that affect 
those minions. For example, Captain Vurst is unaffected 
by any rules or powers that only affect rats.
Brodie
Brodie is the mean-
spirited tomcat who 
patrols the castle’s 
common areas and 
is represented on the 
board by the paw 
token. Brodie does 
not take up room 
in a space. Other 
figures can be placed 
on top of the paw 
token to share the 
space with Brodie. 
When attacking or 
defending with Brodie, any cheese rolled is not added to 
the minion wheel.
Brodie does not move or act like other minions. He 
instead has 2 initiative cards that cause him to take 2 
turns in a round and act differently on each turn. The 
rules for each of Brodie’s initiative cards are as follows:
Brodie Pounces
When Brodie pounces, choose the space on Brodie’s 
room tile that has the most figures on it, minions 
included, and move Brodie onto that space. If more than 
one space has an equal number of figures on it, Brodie 
will pounce on the space that contains the figure whose 
initiative card is highest on the initiative track. Roll once 
for the pounce’s initiative card. Each figure in that space 
must defend against that same attack separately. Brodie 
will pounce on the space he is already on if it contains the 
most figures or if no other spaces have figures on them. 
Brodie Chases
When Brodie chases, roll 2 action dice and total the 
numbers. The result is how far Brodie is moved on that 
turn. Move Brodie along the shortest path toward the 
closest mouse that is not already on Brodie’s space. If 
2 or more mice are an equal distance away, Brodie will 
move toward the one that is highest on the initiative 
track. If there are multiple shortest paths, the players can 
decide which path Brodie will take. If all active mice are 
Moving a Minion
All movement rules that apply to a mouse also apply to 
a minion, with the exception that minions will always 
act in a predictable manner and minions ignore the 
effects of water, red lines, yellow lines, and mousetraps. 
See the mouse movement rules on page 8 for detailed 
rules on movement. 
Moving Melee Minions
When moving a melee minion, first roll an action die. 
The minion can move up to a number of spaces equal to 
the number result rolled (1-3). Minions will always take 
the shortest route to the closest mouse in an attempt 
to move into the same space as that mouse. Minions 
cannot move onto a space with a mouse if that space is 
already full, but they will attempt to get as close as they 
can. If a minion starts its turn on a space with a mouse, 
it will not move. If 2 mice are an equal distance from a 
minion, the minion will move toward the mouse that is 
highest on the initiative track.
Moving Ranged Minions
Ranged minions only move if they cannot ‘see’ any of 
the mice on their room tile. For details on seeing, refer 
to Seeing the Target section on page 11. If a ranged 
minion cannot see any mice, it will use as much of its 
movement as necessary to move along the shortest 
route toward the closest mouse. As soon as it can see a 
mouse it stops moving.
Battling with a Minion
Battling with a minion works just like battling with a 
mouse, except the minion will attack a specific target. 
See the battle section on page 10 for details on how to 
battle. 
After moving with a minion, it attacks 1 mouse if able, 
following these rules: 
If a minion can attack more than 1 mouse, it 
will attack the closest mouse that has not been 
attacked during this turn.
If more than 1 of those closest mice has not been 
attacked this turn, or if they have all been attacked 
this turn, the minion will attack the mouse that is 
highest on the initiative track.
Boss Minions
Sometimes a chapter in the story book will have the mice 
confronting boss minions. Boss minions are usually a 
stronger form of some other minion already in the game. 
Use the figure of that boss’s common counterpart to 

Negative Effects
Stunned and Webbed 
When a mouse becomes stunned or webbed, place the 
corresponding marker on that mouse’s card. 
A stunned mouse can move normally, but the only 
action it can take is a recover action.
A webbed mouse cannot move or use scurry actions 
until it uses a recover action to remove the webbed 
marker. 
Knocked Down
When a figure becomes knocked down, place that figure 
on its side. A knocked down figure must spend its entire 
move to get back up. Large figures cannot be knocked 
down. Knocked down figures can attack and defend 
normally. 
Charmed
When a mouse becomes charmed, 
place a charmed marker on that 
mouse’s card. 
When a charmed mouse takes a 
turn, treat that mouse as if it were 
a minion during that turn, moving and attacking just 
like a melee minion. A charmed mouse uses only the 
information listed on its initiative card, and receives 
no bonuses for equipped search cards or abilities. 
Once the charmed mouse finishes its turn, remove the 
charmed marker from its card.
Poisoned
Some wounds can be poison wounds. 
When placing a poison wound marker, 
place it green side up. Poison wound 
markers cannot be healed by normal 
healing spells and scrolls. They require 
special antidotes or cure spells.
on the same space as Brodie when he starts his chase, he 
will not move at all. If Brodie has any movement points 
left after reaching the closest mouse, continue moving 
Brodie toward the next closest mouse following all the 
rules above. Once Brodie is done moving, roll a number 
of action dice equal to the battle value on Brodie’s chase 
initiative card. All figures that are on spaces that Brodie 
moved along on this turn (including his start and end 
spaces) are affected by that attack. (Only 1 attack roll is 
made each time Brodie chases, all affected figures must 
defend against that 1 roll separately.)
Captured Mouse
When a mouse is wounded, place those wounds on the 
mouse’s hero card. If a mouse’s wounds are ever equal 
to or greater than that mouse’s life value, that mouse 
becomes captured. Leave the captured mouse’s
 initiative card on the initiative track, but remove that 
mouse’s figure from the game board, discard all of 
that mouse’s cheese tokens and all of the search cards 
the captured mouse currently has equipped (starting 
equipment and any items in its pack are safe and do 
not need to be discarded), remove all wounds, poison 
wounds and other negative markers from that mouse’s 
card and move the hourglass marker 1 page closer to 
the chapter end marker along the chapter track. 
Rescuing a Mouse
If a mouse is captured, that mouse is automatically 
rescued on its next turn as soon as there are no longer 
minions on the board. Place it on the same space as 
another mouse or on a space adjacent to another 
mouse. If there are still minions on the board when it 
becomes a captured mouse’s turn, it cannot be rescued 
and must skip its turn.
On a turn that a mouse is rescued, being rescued 
takes up that mouse’s whole turn. 

board (not placed in the party stash) and shuffle the 
Fishhook & Thread card back into the search deck.
Dinner Fork
The dinner fork has a variety of uses. 
It can help mice access areas of the 
board that are hard or impossible 
to reach otherwise, it can pry open 
some traps, and it can even be 
turned into a grape-launching 
catapult! At anytime on a mouse’s 
turn, the player controlling that 
mouse can remove the Dinner Fork 
token from the party stash and 
place it on the board. It does not cost 
an action to place the token.
The Dinner Fork token is always placed on the space 
occupied by the mouse that is using it. The token 
cannot be placed on a water space. 
On its turn, a mouse that is sharing a space with the 
Dinner Fork can use an action to catapult any other 
mouse that is on the same space to any target space on 
the same tile. The catapulted mouse must be able to see 
the target space. See page 11 for rules on Seeing the Target.
A mouse on the same space as the token can use an 
action to remove the token and place it back in the 
party stash. If the mice leave a room tile that has the 
token still on it, the token is removed from the board 
(not placed in the party stash) and the Dinner Fork card 
is shuffled back into the search deck.
Dinner Fork
dinner fork token to the party stash. 
See page 18 of the rulebook for details 
on how to use the dinner fork.
Party Items
Some search cards are listed as party items. Party 
items are items that can be used freely by any mouse in 
the party. When a mouse receives a party item, place 
the card near the story control board and place any 
marker or token that might be associated with that item 
in the party stash area of the story control board. 
Disguises
Disguises are bits of discarded 
rat clothing that can be put on to 
trick the rats. When revealing an 
encounter card, players may discard 
the Disguises token from the party 
stash to ignore all rat warriors for 
that encounter. Place any other 
minions from that encounter as 
usual. If the Disguises token is ever 
discarded, the Disguises card is 
shuffled back into the search deck. 
A surge effect cannot be ignored by 
using the Disguises.
Fishhook & Thread
Fishhook & Thread allows the mice 
to access areas of the board that 
are either hard to reach or normally 
impossible to access. At anytime on a 
mouse’s turn, the player controlling 
that mouse can remove the Fishhook 
& Thread token from the party stash 
and place it on the board. It does not 
cost an action to place the token.
The Fishhook & Thread token is always 
placed so that one end is on the space 
occupied by the mouse that is using it. 
The other end must be placed so that it is 
clearly within another space on the same 
room tile. At least one end of the token 
must be on a non-water space. 
Once placed, any mouse can use their normal 
movement to move between the spaces on either end 
of the Fishhook & Thread token as if they were normal 
adjacent spaces.
A mouse on the same space as one of the ends of the 
token can use an action to remove the token and place 
it back in the party stash. If the mice leave a room tile 
that still has the token on it, remove the token from the 
Disguises
disguises token to the party stash. 
Discard the disguises token the next 
time an encounter card would cause 
Rat Warriors to be placed on the board. 
Do not place the Rat Warriors. 
Place all other minions as usual.
stash. See page 18 of the rulebook 
Fishhook & Thread

Grape
The Grape has a variety of uses. 
It can be used as roach bait and 
sometimes as a weapon. 
Grape as Roach Bait
Any time on a mouse’s turn, the 
player controlling that mouse can 
remove the grape token from the 
party stash and place it on any 
empty adjacent space. While the grape 
is on the board, during a roach turn, any 
roaches will move their full move toward 
the grape, stopping as usual if they move 
onto a space with a mouse. If one or more 
roaches end their move on the space with the grape, they 
will not attack and instead will feast on the grape. Discard 
the grape token and any roaches that ended their turn on 
it. Shuffle the grape card back into the search deck.
Grape as a Weapon
If a mouse is sharing a space with the 
dinner fork, it can use a battle action to 
remove the grape from the party stash 
and launch it at minions. Choose a 
minion to attack. The attacking mouse 
does not need to be able to see the 
chosen minion to launch the grape at 
it. All figures on the same space as the 
chosen minion will also be affected by 
the attack. Flip the grape token like 
it was a coin. If the token lands splat 
side-up, the chosen minion and all other figures on the 
same space receive one automatic hit. Roll to defend 
normally for each affected figure. Discard the grape 
token and shuffle the grape card back into the search 
deck. If the token lands grape side-up, the affected 
figures become knocked down. Place the 
grape token under the knocked down 
figures. Note that this will make the 
grape instant roach bait, or a weapon 
that a rat can use. Large figures are not 
affected by the grape.
If a rat starts its turn sharing a space with the grape, 
it will not move. Instead of its normal battle action it 
will make a ranged attack at the space with the most 
mice on it. If there is more than 1 space with an equal 
number of mice on it, choose the space with the mouse 
highest on the initiative track. Follow the same rules 
as listed above for using the grape as a weapon. A rat 
cannot use the grape as a weapon if it is occupying a 
space with one or more mice.
Grape
Upon drawing this card, add the grape 
token to the party stash. See page 19 
of the rulebook for details on how to 
use the grape.
Winning and Losing
When playing Mice and Mystics, players will choose 
a chapter to play through from a story book. Each 
chapter has its own victory conditions. To win the 
game, players must complete these victory conditions 
before the hourglass marker moves onto the chapter 
end marker on the chapter track located on the story 
control board. We recommend players play the 
chapters in order.
Playing Mice and 
Mystics as a Campaign
Playing as a campaign allows players to preserve the 
progress of their mice from one chapter to the next. 
The following guidelines are suggested for playing mice 
and mystics as a campaign:
Mice keep their story achievements and abilities 
earned from previous chapters.
Mice can keep only 1 search card that they had at 
the end of the previous chapters. This 1 card is in 
addition to their starting equipment cards. Mice 
will always begin a new chapter with their starting 
equipment cards.
Mice do not keep any party items, individual 
achievements, or cheese from previous chapters.
Achievements
Throughout a story book the mice can earn a variety 
of story achievements. These achievements and their 
effects are described in the chapters in which they are 
earned. 
Additionally, players can choose to also play with 
individual achievements. Included in the game are 
markers for these achievements, and listed on the 
back cover of this rulebook are a variety of individual 
achievements that a mouse can earn throughout the 
course of a chapter.

Game Credits
Game Designer and Writer:
Jerry Hawthorne
Writer and Editor:
Mr. Bistro
Producer:
Colby Dauch
Illustrator:
John Ariosa
Sculptor:
Chad Hoverter
Lead Graphic Designer:
David Richards
Assistant Graphic Designers:
John Ariosa • Peter Wocken
Editors:
Chris Dupuis • Nate Rethorn • Peter Miller • David Moody
Playtesters:
Mark Pruett • Chris Schenck • Todd Carlson • David Nolan
Vernon Dickson • Tony Jensen, Jr. • Chad Hoverter

Index
Ability Cards — 3
Accessories — 2
Achievements — 19
Action Dice — 2
Adjacent Spaces — 8
Ambushes — 14
Armor — 2
Battle — 10
Battling with a Minion — 16
Black Areas and Walls — 9
Board Features — 9
Boss initiative cards — 7
Boss Minions — 16
Brodie — 16
Brodie Chases — 16
Brodie Pounces — 16
Captured Mouse — 17
Chapter objective — 5
Chapter setup — 5
Charmed — 17
Defeat — 5
Determining Initiative Order — 7
Dinner Fork — 18
Disguises — 18
Encounter Cards — 3
Encounters — 14
Equip — 15
Events — 2
Exit areas — 4
Exploring a Flip Space — 13
Exploring an Exit Area — 12
Fishhook & Thread — 18
Flip space — 4
Free Mouse Actions — 15
Game round — 7
Game setup — 6
Grape — 18
Grape as a Weapon — 19
Grape as Roach Bait — 18
Greedy Roaches — 15
Inflicting wounds — 11
Initiative Cards — 1
Items — 2
Knocked Down — 17
Level Up — 15
Melee attack — 10
Minion tokens — 14
Mouse Ability Cards — 7
Mouse Actions — 10
Mouse Hero Cards — 1
Mouse Movement — 8
Mousetraps — 14
Mousetrap spaces — 4
Moving across mousetraps — 10
Moving a Minion — 16
Moving in Water — 10
Moving Melee Minions — 16
Moving Ranged Minions — 16
Negative Effects — 17
Object of the Game — 1
Orientation arrow — 4
Other Markers — 3
Party items — 2
Party Items — 18
Placing Minions on the Board — 14
Playing Mice and Mystics as a Campaign — 19
Poisoned — 17
Ranged attack — 11
Recover — 12
Recovering From Stun — 12
Recovering From Webbed — 12
Red lines — 8
Rescuing a Mouse — 17
Room tile rules — 5
Room Tiles — 4
Scurry — 10
Search — 12
Search Cards — 2
Seeing the target — 11
Share — 15
Sharing Spaces — 10
Special Areas Spaces — 8
Special chapter rules — 5
Story Book — 5
Story Control Board — 4
Story text — 5
Stunned — 17
Surges — 15
Taking a Turn with a Minion — 15
Taking a Turn with a Mouse Hero — 7
The story continues — 5
Tricks — 2
Victory — 5
Weapons — 2
Webbed — 17
Wounds on boss minions — 11
Wounds on non-boss minions — 11
Yellow Lines — 8

Individual 
Achievements
Cheesemaster
The first mouse that rolls 3 or more cheese in 1 attack or defense roll receives the 
Cheesemaster achievement token.
Effect: Move the chapter end marker one page further on the chapter track. Each time the 
Cheesemaster rolls 1 or more cheese on a defense roll, give 1 cheese to each active mouse.
Roachmaster
The first mouse that defeats 4 roaches in a single encounter receives the Roachmaster 
achievement token.
Effect: Move the chapter end marker one page further on the chapter track. For the rest of 
the chapter, roaches on the same tile as the Roachmaster are not considered greedy. 
Poisonmaster
The first mouse that is captured with at least 1 unhealed poison wound receives the 
Poisonmaster achievement token.
Effect: For the rest of the chapter, when the Poisonmaster would receive a poison wound, 
it receives a normal wound instead. 
Scaper
The first mouse that is captured twice in a chapter receives the Scaper achievement 
token.
Effect: Move the chapter end marker one page further on the chapter track. If the Scaper is 
captured a third time, it is immediately rescued and does not lose any equipped search cards. 
All other captured rules still take effect, such as all cheese and wounds being removed.
Cat Tamer
The first mouse that defeats Brodie earns the Cat Tamer achievement token.
Effect: For the rest of the chapter, all large minions roll one fewer die when defending 
against an attack from the Cat Tamer.
www.plaidhatgames.com