micropul
A solitaire puzzle for 1 or a competitive game for 2 players
(version 1.2.1) Feb. 24, 2004 © Jean-Francois Lassonde
It's impossibly costly to harvest micropul, a new kind of matter found inside an energy core. An easier
way is to shoot a micropul right on a catalyst to cause a fission and break off chunks from the core.
Scientists all over the world are looking into optimizing this new physics-deyfing technique. “If you're
smart enough, it's like using electricity to generate twice the amount of electricity! This is the future...”
Contents
48 different tiles
6 stones in 2 colors
Goal
At first, you have a limited number of tiles and must play them optimally to gain more. The goal is to
collect the most tiles possible by using the less tiles possible. At the same time, try to form groups of
micropul and claim them as your own. Scoring is done at the end when the core is depleted.
Rules
Understanding the game is easy once you grasp how micropul and
catalysts interact with each other and themselves. A micropul is a
circle (shown left) while catalysts are small dots/cross (shown right).
You'll notice that every tile have at least one micropul on it. That's because micropul
have the power to hold tiles together, which is necessary in this game. The rules presented below are
important to the game and must be followed at all time.
●Rule #1 Any new tile coming in play must be attached to the
rest of the tiles already in play. More precisely, to attach your
tile one of its micropul must be adjacent to another micropul of a
tile already in play.
●Rule #2 A black micropul can never be adjacent to a white
micropul and vice-versa. For each new tile you put in play,
always make sure not to place the tile in a position that will put a
black and a white micropul next to each other.
In the example, the tile shown in green is the one being played. As per rule #1, the tile is attached to
the rest of the tiles but rule #2 is not respected because a white micropul is adjacent to a black
micropul. Thus, this play is not valid. If the tile is rotated 90° clockwise, it would be valid.
The catalysts (dots/cross) are not bound by the same restrictions as the micropul. They can be adjacent
to any other catalyst of any type or any micropul of any color. Catalysts are not used for attaching tiles
together. Instead, a catalyst next to a micropul will activate an effect once the tile has been put in play...

Preparation
Place the starting tile in the middle of the table.
It's the one with 4 micropul, 2 black and 2 white.
Shown in the set-up example to the left.
Shuffle all tiles face down and make small
stacks. Put the stacks where every player can
reach them, it is called the core.
Each player receive 6 random tiles from the
core and put them in his hand. The tiles can
stand on their side. 
Each player receive 3 stones of one color and
place them by his side.
Determine the first player.
On your turn
Players take turns one at a time. You have three options during your turn but can only do one of them. 
• Lay a tile from your hand in play
• Take a tile from your supply to your hand
• Put a stone on a group of micropul
Option: Lay a tile from your hand in play
If your hand is empty, this action cannot be taken. When laying a tile, your goal is to activate catalysts
which will enable you to draw new tiles from the core.
➔Choose one tile in your hand and lay it next to a previously placed tile. Respect rules #1 and #2!
Once your tile is successfully placed, check if any catalysts have been
activated. A catalyst is activated by being adjacent to an external micropul:
If a micropul on your tile is adjacent to a catalyst on another tile, it is
activated. Catalyst on your tile is activated if it is adjacent to a micropul
on another tile.
➔Draw tiles from the core, the big stacks of tiles made at game's start.
Put them face down next to you, this is now your supply stacks. The
catalysts activated determine how many tiles to draw. If you activated at
least one cross (+) catalyst, play another turn.
Draw one tile
Draw two tiles
Play again
Catalysts are activated only once per turn but can be activated again on a subsequent turn.
The tile in green is being
played. You receive 2 tiles
from the core.
One and only one action must
be taken each turn. A player
cannot pass a turn. You lose the
game if you have no more tiles in
hand or in supply.

Option: Take a tile from your supply to your hand
You cannot have more than 6 tiles in your hand. If your hand is full, this action cannot be taken. Taking
a tile from your supply of face down tiles will give you more choice when choosing what tile to play.
➔Draw one tile at random from your supply stacks. Put this tile face up in your hand.
Option: Put a stone on a group of micropul
You cannot take this action if you have no more stones. When putting a stone on a group, your goal is
then to close that particular group so it's worth victory points to you at the end of the game.
➔Put one of your stone on any micropul of a tile in play to claim that group. You now own this group
of micropul. A stone cannot be placed on a group that is already owned. It is possible to claim a
group that is already closed.
What is a group of micropul?
It is any number of micropul of the same color linked
together by being adjacent to one another. Groups can be
either open or closed. Only closed groups scores points.
Open group means that it can still grow. New micropul
can be added to that group by playing new tiles.
Closed group means all micropul of that group are
surrounded by elements of the game. No micropul of that
group is standing at the edge of the playing area. Thus, it
is impossible to add new micropul to that group.
It's possible for two groups claimed separately to merge
into one group by playing a tile which will connect them
together. That group will not be worth any points.
What is a big micropul?
There are four tiles featuring “big micropul” on them.
They act just like a tile with four micropul of that color on
it. Also, those tiles have one catalyst that can be activated
from any side. It act like a regular catalyst.
Game end
The game end as the last tile is drawn from the core. Remove stones from groups of micropul that are
still open or have more than one stone on them. Those groups will not score points.
For each closed group you own, score victory points for micropul in that group. Each micropul
is worth 1 point. A big micropul is worth only 1 point too.
Each tile in your supply stacks is worth 2 points. Each tile in your hand is worth 1 point.
The player with most points win the game. There is no tie-breaker.
When the green tile is placed, it will close the group
of white micropul. That group will be worth 10
points at the end of the game because there are 10
micropul in it.