“The Dark Tower had been rebuilt, it was said. From there the power 
was spreading far and wide, and away east and south there were wars 
and growing fear.
The Lord of The Rings, The Fellowship of the Ring
Middle-earth. It is near the end of the Third Age.
It is a time of growing darkness and despair. In the ashen land 
of Mordor, the Dark Lord Sauron has become mighty indeed. 
His power grows daily, a rising shadow that soon threatens to 
overwhelm all. There is little to stand against him. The fleeting 
glory and strength that sprang from the Last Alliance of Elves 
and Men have now withered into a distant past. 
Save for a few remaining holdfasts, the Elves have all but 
abandoned Middle-earth. A cunning observer with keen eyes 
and nimble feet may still see Elven households traveling under 
starlight towards the Grey Havens. They’re leaving. Traveling 
towards the great sea and the Undying Lands that lie beyond.
The kingdoms of Men have grown weak and disparate. Those 
of the South and the East have already knelt to Mordor. Alas, in 
the West, once a beacon of strength, the blood of Númenor has 
run thin. What remains of its vigor now dwells in Minas Tirith, 
and with the few northern rangers that haunt the ruins and wild 
country of Arnor. It is rumored that even the noble horse lords 
of Rohan, once fiercely independent, now pay a tithe of horses to 
Mordor, in payment for an uneasy peace.
Yet, there is still hope. 
The power of the three Elven-rings, and that of their bearers, 
stand now as a bulwark against Sauron’s will. Bearing Nenya, the 
Elven Queen Galadriel remains in Lothlórien with the last of the 
Galadhrim. With Vilya, Elrond Halfelven and his household still 
dwell in the bastion of healing and knowledge that is Rivendell. 
And with Narya on his hand, the wizard Gandalf the Grey 
tirelessly continues his quest to unite the peoples of the West, 
and to foil Sauron’s plots wherever they may be found. 
Except perhaps for his friend Aragorn, who suspects it, only 
Gandalf knows of that which may be the greatest hope, and 
greatest danger, of all. 
Gandalf believes he may have found the One Ring: the master 
ring which Sauron forged in the fires of Mount Doom. The 
ring that, if reclaimed by the Dark Lord, would dominate the 
three rings that have so-far escaped his reach. By acquiring the 
One Ring, he would regain his former strength. Yet, despite 
ever-seeking it, ever-hunting for news of the ring, his ring, its 
whereabouts have eluded Sauron for almost an age. 
That ring, that smallest of things which the Dark Lord of 
Mordor desires above all, has come into the possession of a 
small creature. A hobbit. One by the name of Frodo Baggins, 
to whom it was given by his uncle Bilbo. Gandalf, a dear friend 
of both hobbits, has over the years come to suspect that Bilbo’s 
trinket may be more than what it seems. That it may be a relic of 
significance. Of the utmost significance. In his heart of hearts, 
Gandalf has come to the dreadful understanding that the One 
Ring now dwells with the hobbits in their remote and peaceful 
Shire. It is a knowledge and a responsibility that lies heavily on 
his heart.
Although he is almost certain as to the true nature of Frodo’s 
ring, Gandalf has so far hesitated to bring the matter before the 
White Council. He seeks proof and understanding before he 
is willing to make so momentous a claim. To this end, he now 
hunts for the pitiful Gollum, the decrepit creature that possessed 
the ring before Bilbo. And Gandalf seeks knowledge of the last 
days of Isildur, of the slain king whom history tells was the last 
person to have worn the One Ring.
And there is another hope. That in the days ahead, heroes will 
arise. Heroes, who at Gandalf’s request will guard the Shire from 
evil and inquiring eyes. Heroes, who will brave the dangers of 
the Misty Mountains to search for news of Balin and his dwarven 
colonists. Heroes, who will fight alongside the men of Gondor 
against the incursions from Mordor. Perhaps even heroes daring 
enough to venture into the forests of Ithilien, or even into the 
Land of Shadow itself, to there disrupt Sauron’s plans.
Middle-earth now needs these heroes to help it stand against 
Sauron until the Final Days arrive. To hold the shadow at bay, 
until the time when a fellowship of men, elves, dwarves, and 
hobbits shall set into motion the events leading to the War of the 
Ring and end of the Third Age.
The events of Middle-earth Quest are set in the lands described in 
J.R.R. Tolkien’s epic novel The Lord of the Rings. The game takes 
place during a time-span of 17 years. The years from when Bilbo 
celebrates his 111th birthday (and Frodo’s 33rd) to days just prior 
to Frodo’s leaving the Shire. These are years of high adventure 
and mounting darkness.
Will you take the mantle of a hero, helping Gandalf and the 
White Council in their struggle against the shadow? Will you 
help set the stage for the days that follow, as described in The 
Lord of the Rings? Or, will you take the role of Sauron himself, 
seeking the domination, corruption, and enslavement of all that 
is free and kind? Will you, as the Dark Lord of Mordor, succeed 
in finding that for which you hunger most – the location and 
return of the One Ring – before Gandalf’s plan can mature? 
Whatever the choice, the fate of Middle-earth is in your hands.
Introduction

Game Overview
“Orcs were multiplying again in the mountains. Trolls were abroad. No 
longer dull-witted, but cunning and armed with dreadful weapons.”
In Middle-earth Quest, one player takes the role of Sauron, while 
the remaining players take the roles of brave heroes of the West.
Sauron must use malevolent plots, his ever-growing influence, 
and the manipulation of evil creatures to achieve his goals. If he 
succeeds, he will find the One Ring, and a second darkness will 
embrace the West. 
The heroes must help Gandalf discover the truth about the One 
Ring. To do this, they must seek favor and knowledge from 
famous characters across Middle-earth. They must embark on 
perilous quests to foil the Dark Lord’s schemes and those of 
his minions. If the heroes succeed, then Gandalf will learn the 
information he needs. With this knowledge, Gandalf will – just 
in time – get Frodo and the One Ring out of the Shire and onto 
the epic journey that will lead to the ring’s destruction.
Component List
This Rulebook
1 Game Board (in two parts)
220 Large Cards, including:
42 Event Cards
26 Shadow Cards
10 Starting Quest Cards
5 Advanced Quest Cards 
3 Starting Plot Cards
15 Advanced Plot Cards 
75 Region Encounter Cards 
15 Haven Encounter Cards 
15 Peril Cards
14 Monster Reference Cards
255 Small Cards, including:
75 Monster Combat Cards
125 Hero Cards 
20 Skill Cards
10 Mission Cards
9 Item Cards
16 Corruption Cards 
5 Hero Sheets 
235 Tokens, including:
50 Monster Tokens 
80 Influence Tokens
30 Favor Tokens
1 Current Player Token
24 Level Tokens 
30 Damage Tokens (20 “1’s” and 10 “3’s”) 
4 Sauron Action Tokens
8 Character Tokens 
4 Story Markers
3 Plot Markers
1 Event Marker
8 Plastic Character Stands
5 Plastic Hero Figures
5 Plastic Minion Figures

Component Overview
Game Board
The game board 
depicts the many 
locations in Middle-
earth that heroes 
can travel to 
during the game. It 
contains information 
concerning minions 
and Sauron’s actions, 
and contains areas 
to hold cards and 
tokens (see diagram 
on page 6). 
Event Cards
These cards cause ongoing or 
immediate effects and instruct players 
to place favor and character tokens in 
specific locations.
Shadow Cards
These cards provide Sauron with a 
wide range of powerful abilities, such 
as ambushing heroes with monsters or 
tempting heroes with power. 
Starting and 
Advanced Quest 
Each hero has two Starting 
Quest cards and one Advanced 
Quest card. These cards provide 
rewards for heroes that complete 
their requirements.
Plot Cards 
These cards represent the 
different activities that Sauron 
is performing in his attempt to 
conquer Middle-earth. Three 
of these cards are Starting Plot 
cards, one of which starts in play 
at the beginning of the game.
Encounter Cards 
These cards represent the 
different situations that 
heroes face as they travel 
through Middle-earth. Five of 
these decks correspond to the 
different regions, while one of 
them corresponds to the Free 
Peoples’ Havens. 
Peril Cards 
These cards represent dangers that can 
affect heroes who travel to perilous 
locations on the game board. 
Monster Reference 
These cards list all the attributes 
and special abilities of the different 
monsters that heroes may encounter.
Monster Combat 
These cards come in three different 
decks and are used by Sauron to 
resolve combat between heroes and 
monsters or minions. 
Hero Cards
Each hero has his own deck of Hero 
cards. These cards are used to track 
the hero’s health and are discarded 
from his hand during movement and 
combat. 
Skill Cards
These cards are awarded to heroes 
throughout the game and are added to 
their hand of Hero cards. These cards not 
only provide powerful combat abilities, 
but increase a hero’s health. Note that Skill 
cards share the same card back as Hero 
cards and should be carefully separated 
from the Hero cards at the start of the game.

Favor Tokens
These tokens represent the good will 
and support of the Free Peoples of 
Middle-earth. Heroes collect these 
tokens from locations, characters, 
Encounter cards, and completed Quests. 
Heroes spend favor tokens to discard 
Sauron’s Plot cards or to gain other benefits. 
Current Player Token
Players may optionally use this token to track 
which player is currently resolving his turn. At 
the end of a player’s turn, he hands this token 
to the player on his left, who then resolves his 
turn, etc. 
These tokens are awarded to 
heroes for completing Quests 
and consulting with characters. 
They are used to track the heroes’ 
increasing attributes.
Damage Tokens 
These tokens are placed on Monster 
Reference cards and Minion spaces of 
the game board to denote how much 
damage a monster or minion has taken 
during combat.
These markers are placed on the Story 
Track of the game board. They track the 
advancing goals of Sauron and the heroes. 
 
Sauron Action Tokens
These tokens are placed on the 
Sauron Action area of the game 
board during Sauron’s turn to track 
his available actions. 
Plot Markers
These markers are used to indicate the 
game board locations being affected by 
Sauron’s active Plot cards. Each token 
marks the locations to which heroes 
must travel to foil (discard) Sauron’s 
corresponding Plot card.
Corruption Cards 
These cards are given to heroes 
throughout the game, usually as a result 
of Shadow or Peril cards. They inflict 
ongoing negative effects and may only be 
discarded when a hero rests (and pays the 
listed amount of favor) or if allowed by 
another card or ability.
Item Cards
These cards are awarded to heroes 
throughout the game and provide 
ongoing special abilities. 
Mission cards
Each side (that is the heroes as a group, 
and the Sauron player) has a deck of 
Mission cards. At the start of the game, 
each side secretly draws a random Mission 
card from its deck. This card instructs 
each side how it can immediately win the 
game if dominant during the Finale (see pages 33–34). 
Hero Sheets 
These sheets list all abilities 
and attributes for the 
different heroes. 
Monster Tokens 
These tokens are placed 
on the game board 
throughout the game 
to represent possible 
locations of monsters. 
The tokens are color-
coded to identify which 
regions they may be placed in. 
Influence Tokens
These tokens are used to represent the 
spread of Sauron’s growing power and 
stature throughout Middle-earth. The 
ever increasing presence of influence 
tokens on game board locations and 
in the Shadow Pool enables Sauron 
to play powerful Shadow and Plot 
cards and can make locations more 
dangerous for heroes. 

Event Marker
This marker is placed on the game board to 
mark the location affected by the current 
Event card. 
Character Tokens 
and Plastic Stands 
These tokens represent the leaders and other 
important people of Middle-earth. They are 
often placed at specific locations by Event 
cards and provide heroes with rewards for 
consulting with them. 
Before the start of the first game, each 
character token should be attached to one of 
the provided plastic stands. 
Plastic Minion Figures
These figures represent Sauron’s 
lieutenants and are used on the game 
board to mark each minion’s current 
location. Only two of the minions are 
placed on the game board at the start 
of the game, while the remaining three 
come into play later.
Plastic Hero Figures
These figures represent the different 
heroes and are used on the game board to 
mark each hero’s current location.
Anatomy of the Game Board
Current Event Card Space
Favor and Character Area
Story Track
Turn Reference
Encounter Deck Spaces
Minion Area
Influence Area
Peril Deck Space
Corruption Deck Space
9.	
 Shadow Deck Space
10.	
 Shadow Pool
11.	
 Sauron Action Area 
12.	
 Plot Deck Space
13.	
 Active Plot Track
14.	
 Permanently Perilous Location
15.	
 Shadow Stronghold and Permanently Perilous Location
16.	
 Normal Location
17.	
 Haven Location
18.	
 Normal Path
19.	
 Water Path
20.	

“Keep to the green grass. Don’t you go a-meddling with old stone or 
cold wights or prying in their houses, unless you be strong folk with 
hearts that never falter.”
– Tom Bombadil speaking to Frodo and his hobbit companions 
Object of the Game
The object of the game is for Sauron or the hero players to 
advance their story marker to the Finale space of the Story Track 
and complete the requirements on their Mission card. Story 
markers are advanced through different means depending on 
which side they belong to.
Sauron’s three story markers advance based upon the Plot 
cards he has in play. His objective is to advance one of his story 
markers to the Finale space, or all three of his markers to The 
Shadow Falls space (see pages 33–34). 
The hero players win (or lose) as a team. Their story marker 
moves automatically every Sauron turn, but can move slower or 
faster based upon certain Event and Shadow cards. 
If a side triggers the Finale, but fails to complete its Mission, 
then the winner of the game is determined by a final fight 
between a hero and the Ringwraiths.
Number of Players
Middle-earth Quest supports up to four players, with one player 
taking the role of Sauron and the rest taking the roles of heroes. 
These rules are written with the assumption that players are 
playing either a three or four player game. If playing a two player 
game, players should first read the entire rules and then follow 
the specific instructions for two player games on page 35.
Getting started
Middle-earth Quest is a unique game in that the gameplay 
of the Sauron player versus that of the hero players is 
dramatically different. Therefore, we have split all the 
rules for the two sides into the following distinct sections: 
the “Sauron Game Rules” and the “Hero Game Rules.” 
It is important that players read both of these sections, 
as general game information is found in both. Following 
the “Sauron Game Rules” and the “Hero Game Rules,” 
additional rules such as combat and the game Finale can 
be found.
Reading 
these rules

Setup
Before playing a game of Middle-earth Quest, players must 
perform the following steps:
Choose Sides:
 Players first determine which player should 
take the role of Sauron. The remaining players will take the 
role of heroes of Middle-earth.
Place Game Board:
 Unfold the two halves of the game 
board, and place them in the center of the play area so that the 
artwork from both halves match up. Sauron should sit within 
easy reach of the Sauron Action area of the game board. 
Hero Setup:
 The hero players perform the following steps 
while the Sauron player performs Sauron Setup (step 4). 
Choose Heroes:
 Each hero player selects a different 
hero sheet, as well as the matching figure, from the five 
provided in the game, placing these in their respective play 
areas. Determine the distribution of heroes randomly if 
players cannot agree who should control which hero.
Place Favor and Characters: 
Place all favor and character 
tokens in the Favor and Character area of the game board. 
Place Hero Figures:
 Each hero player places his figure on 
the hero’s starting location of the game board as listed on 
his hero sheet.
Set up Hero Decks:
 Separate all Hero cards (according 
to their fronts) into five Hero decks and one Skill deck. 
Remember that Skill cards are denoted with the star-character, 
and Hero cards with their individual hero illustration, located 
at the bottom of each card. 
 
Place the Skill deck facedown adjacent to the game board. 
Each hero player takes the Hero deck that corresponds to 
his hero, shuffles it, and places it facedown to the left of his 
hero sheet next to the words “Life Pool” (see “Life Pool” on 
page 21). All components (hero sheet, plastic figure, and Hero 
cards) for unused heroes are returned to the game box.
Set up Starting Quests:
 Each hero player randomly 
selects one of his Starting Quest cards. He follows any 
“Setup” instructions on the card and places it in front of 
himself. The unused Starting Quest card is returned to the 
game box and is not used during this game. Each hero also 
receives his Advanced Quest card, but will be unable to use 
it until he has completed his Starting Quest. 
Set up Event Decks:
 Separate the Event cards by stage (as 
indicated by the numeral on their back). Then shuffle each 
of the three decks, and place them facedown adjacent to 
the top of the game board. 
Set up Encounter Decks: 
g.	
Separate the Encounter cards 
by region (five decks indicated by the color of the jewels on 
their back, and the sixth, the Haven Encounter deck, by 
three white towers). Then shuffle each of the six decks, and 
place them facedown on their respective areas to the left 
side of the game board.
Place Story Markers:
h.	
 Place the four story markers (the 
green one for the heroes, the yellow, black, and red ones 
for Sauron) on the “start” space of the Story Track. 
Sauron Setup: 
The Sauron player performs the following 
steps while the hero players perform Hero Setup (step 3).
Place Influence: 
Place all influence tokens on the 
Influence area of the game board. 
Place Minion Figures: 
Place the “Black Serpent” and 
“Mouth of Sauron” figures on their starting locations as 
listed on the Minion area of the game board. Then place the 
other three minion figures off to the side of the game board. 
Receive Starting Plot: 
Randomly select one of three 
Starting Plot cards. The unused Starting Plot cards are 
returned to the game box and not used during this game. 
Place the drawn Plot card on the “1” space of the Active 
Plot Track and the matching plot marker on the location 
affected by the Plot card (see page 14). Then follow the 
instructions on the card.
Set up Shadow, Corruption, Peril, and Advanced 
Plot Decks: Shuffle the Shadow, Corruption, Peril, and 
Advanced Plot decks individually and place them facedown 
on the appropriate spaces of the game board. 
Place Monster Reference and Monster Combat Cards: 
Place the Monster Reference cards faceup in a pile within 
easy reach. Then shuffle the three Monster Combat decks 
separately and place them facedown adjacent to the game 
board. 
Place Monster Tokens: 
Separate the five types of monster 
tokens by color, randomize them separately, and place them 
in five piles with the artwork side down. These tokens 
should be kept within easy reach of the Sauron player. 
Set up Other Tokens:
g.	
 Take all damage tokens, Sauron 
action markers, level tokens, and the event marker, placing 
them off to the side of the game board within easy reach 
of all players. Then place the “2” and “3” plot markers 
adjacent to the Plot deck. 
Draw Mission Cards: 
Shuffle the Sauron Mission deck 
and Hero Mission deck separately. Then each side secretly 
draws a card from the top of its respective deck. The heroes 
(as a group) can look at their Mission card at any time, and 
the Sauron player can look at his Mission card at any time, 
but neither should share its information with the other side. 
After each side has read its Mission card, the cards are placed 
facedown near the appropriate side’s play area. Return all 
unused Mission cards to the box (without looking at them); 
they will not be used in this game.
Start the Game:
 After all players have completed setup, 
proceed to the first Sauron turn of the game.

Setup Diagram
A Hero’s Play Area
Hero Sheet
Hero Deck (in Life Pool)
Starting Quest
Skill Deck
Item Deck
Event Decks 
Favor and Character Tokens
9.	
10.	
Hero Mission Card
11.	
Hero Figures (on starting locations)
12.	
Active Starting Plot and Matching Plot Marker
13.	
Encounter Decks
14.	
Minion Figures (on starting locations)
15.	
Plot Deck
16.	
Plot Markers and Event Marker
17.	
Influence Tokens (in Influence area)
18.	
Peril Deck
19.	
Corruption Deck
20.	
Shadow Deck
21.	
Current Player Token
22.	
Sauron’s Mission Card
23.	
Damage Tokens
24.	
Monster Token Piles
25.	
Sauron Action Tokens
26.	
Monster Reference Cards and Monster Combat Decks
27.	

“Soon I became aware that spies of many sorts, even beasts and birds, 
were gathered around the Shire, and my fear grew. I called for the help 
of the Dúnedain, and their watch was doubled…”
– Gandalf, at the Council of Elrond 
Game Turns
Middle-earth Quest is played over a number of game turns until 
the Finale is triggered (usually by a story marker reaching the end 
of the track – see pages 33–34). 
Starting with the Sauron player and proceeding clockwise, each 
player takes his turn. Each turn is either a Sauron turn in which 
the Sauron player acts or a hero turn in which one hero player acts. 
In this way, in a four player game, the turn order would be:
(1) Sauron Turn; (2) Hero 1 Turn; (3) Hero 2 Turn; (4) Hero 3 Turn
After the last hero has completed his turn, Sauron begins his next 
turn. This continues until the Finale begins (see pages 33–34).
Sauron Turn
During each Sauron turn, story markers may advance (even the 
hero’s story marker), Sauron is able to play a single Plot card, and 
Sauron takes actions to advance and defend his plots. 
 
The steps of each Sauron turn are described below, summarized 
on the game board, and detailed on pages 11–19.
Hero Rally Step:
 Discard all influence tokens from each 
hero’s location. 
 
Example: In her previous hero turn, Beravor ended her turn on the Moria 
location, which contained two influence tokens. During Sauron’s following 
Hero Rally step, the two influence tokens are removed. Sauron takes the 
tokens off Moria and returns them to the Influence area on the game board.
Story Step:
 Advance the hero story marker two spaces up the 
Story Track. Sauron’s story markers are advanced according 
to his active Plot cards (see page 13). Skip this step on the 
first turn of the game. 
 
Note: If this is the first time that a story marker has advanced 
into either stage II or III of the Story Track, then Sauron may 
place new minions in play (see page 12).
Plot Step: 
Sauron may play a single Plot card from his hand 
or discard an active Plot card (see page 13). Skip this step on 
the first turn of the game.
Event Step:
 Sauron draws three cards from the top of the 
current stage’s Event deck. He then resolves one of them (per 
the rules found on page 14). 
 
EXCEPTION: If neither team is dominant, Sauron instead 
draws one card and resolves it. This will always be the case 
during the first Sauron turn of the game.
Action Step:
 Sauron may take two actions (or three actions if 
playing a four player game). See “Action Step” on pages 15–19.
Hero Draw Step:
 Each hero may draw cards from his life 
pool equal to his fortitude (see page 19). 
Hero Turn
During each hero turn, the active hero moves, fights, explores, 
and resolves an Encounter card in his final location. 
 
The steps of each hero turn are described below, summarized on 
the game board, and detailed on pages 20–25.
Rest Step: 
If there are no monster tokens or minions in the 
hero’s location and he is not in a Shadow Stronghold, he may 
rest (see page 20). 
 
Note that if a hero is in a Haven, he may heal (see page 20).
Ambush Step: 
Sauron must choose and attack with one 
monster or minion in the hero’s location. In this case, a 
combat starts (see pages 27–32). 
Travel Step:
 During this step, the hero is able to travel to a 
connected location on the game board, fight enemies, resolve 
perilous locations, and explore as follows: 
 
Note that a hero may perform this step (repeating the 
sequence below) as many times as his hand of Hero 
cards allows.
Move: 
The hero may move to an adjacent location by 
discarding the required Hero card(s) from his hand (see 
pages 22–23).
Combat or Peril: 
Sauron chooses whether the hero will fight 
a monster/minion in his location (in any) or resolve a Peril 
card (if he is in a perilous location – see pages 22–23). 
Explore:
 The hero may explore his current location. This 
includes retrieving favor, consulting with characters, 
completing quests, and more (see page 24). 
 
If a hero wishes to explore in the location that he started 
his turn in, he may skip the “Move” and “Combat or 
Peril” parts of his first Travel step and simply explore his 
current location.
Encounter Step:
 After he has finished moving, if the hero 
is not in a perilous location, he draws three cards from his 
location’s Encounter deck and resolves the lowest numbered 
card that matches his location or region (if any) (see pages 
24–25).
Gameplay Overview

“The Lord Sauron the Great, so he said, wished for our friendship. 
Rings he would give for it, such as he gave of old.”
– Glóin, at the Council of Elrond 
The Lord of the Rings, Fellowship of the Ring
This section defines the core concepts and rules for the Sauron 
player, focusing on the steps of his turn. 
Sauron Turn in Detail
This section provides a detailed description of Sauron’s turn, 
which is composed of the following steps: the Hero Rally step, 
Story step, Plot step, Event step, Action step, and Hero Draw 
step. Note that some of the steps in Sauron’s turn actually benefit 
the heroes and not Sauron (for example, the Hero Draw step).
The Hero Rally Step
In this step, each hero discards all influence tokens from his 
current location (as long as he is not in a Shadow Stronghold). 
Whenever influence is discarded from a location, it is returned to 
the Influence area of the game board.
Discarding influence during the Hero Rally step serves many 
purposes, including disrupting influence extensions from 
Shadow Strongholds (see pages 16–17) and preventing Sauron 
from placing monster tokens in that location.
Sauron Game Rules
Important Terms
Below are common terms frequently used in this rulebook 
and on cards. 
Dominant: Many cards and rules depend upon which side 
is dominant. A side is dominant if it has a story marker closer 
to the Finale space than its opponent (see page 14).
Character: These tokens represent influential people of 
Middle-earth and can provide heroes with favor or other 
special benefits.
Current Stage: The rightmost stage of the Story Track 
containing at least one story marker. 
Enemy: A component or player not belonging to the same 
side as another particular component or player. For example, 
the heroes are the enemies of Sauron.
Exhausted: An exhausted combatant may not play 
additional Combat cards for the remainder of a combat (see 
Extension: A string of adjacent locations all containing 
influence tokens and connected to at least one Shadow 
Stronghold (see pages 16–17 for more details). 
Friendly: A component or player belonging to the same side 
as another particular component or player.
Hero: This term is used to represent both the hero figure (and 
his components) as well as the player controlling that hero. 
Influence Strength: The number of influence tokens on a 
Shadow Stronghold. 
Location: These circular spaces comprise the main 
component of the game board. Each location has a colored 
frame which designates the region to which the location 
belongs. Locations also have names, which are referred to 
by other components. 
Path: These dotted lines (or solid blue lines) connect all 
adjacent locations.
Shadow Stronghold: Any location with 
the Shadow Stronghold icon (a black tower). 
Sauron is often able to place influence tokens 
in extension of Shadow Strongholds (see 
page 16 for more details).
Region: There are ten regions of the game board, 
differentiated by color, each containing a number of locations. 
The name of each region can be found to the right of the 
corresponding Encounter deck space on the game board 
(which are also identified by color). A region map can be found 
on page 36 of these rules.
Sauron: This term is short for “the Sauron player.”
Side: Middle-earth Quest is essentially played with two teams, 
with one team consisting of the hero players and the other 
team consisting of the Sauron player. These teams are 
described herein as “sides.” 
Haven: Any location on the game board 
with the Haven icon (three white towers). 
When a hero rests in a Haven, he may also 
heal (see page 20 for more details).
Within [X] Spaces: Many cards refer to locations that are 
within a number of spaces. Adjacent locations are considered 
one space away. For example, “within 1 space of a hero” 
includes the hero’s current location and each adjacent location.

The Story Step
On every Sauron turn, excluding the first, the hero story 
marker advances two spaces up the Story Track. Then each 
of Sauron’s three story markers are advanced individually, as 
indicated by Sauron’s active Plot cards (see the “Advancing Story 
Markers” diagram). 
If any story marker reaches the Finale space of the Story Track 
or if all three of Sauron’s markers reach (or pass) The Shadow 
Falls space, the game Finale begins (see “Winning the Game” 
on pages 33–34).
Understanding the Story Track
The Story Track runs along the top edge of the game board. This 
track holds the four story markers, which indicate how close 
Sauron and the heroes are to fulfilling their objectives.
Thematically, the heroes’ story marker represents 
how successful the Free Peoples are in holding 
Sauron’s forces at bay and enabling the heroic deeds 
described in The Lord of the Rings. If this marker 
reaches the end of the track, then the game Finale 
begins (see pages 33–34).
Thematically, the Sauron story markers represent how 
close Sauron is to gaining the power and knowledge 
necessary to claim final dominance of the West. The 
“ring” story marker (yellow) indicates how close 
Sauron is to unraveling Gandalf’s plans and finding 
the One Ring, the “conquest” story marker (red) 
indicates how close Sauron is to mustering his military 
forces to sufficient strength, and the “corruption” 
story marker (black) indicates Sauron’s success in 
corrupting the leaders of the Free Peoples.
Understanding the Game Stages
The game is divided into three stages. These stages represent 
the advancing years in Middle-earth, with thematic events 
happening at appropriate times. The Story Track is broken up 
into three sections to represent these three stages, starting with 
stage I and ending with stage III. 
The term “current stage” is defined as the rightmost stage of 
the track containing at least one story marker. 
Whenever a card or ability refers to the current stage, the players 
simply check the Story Track stage of the story marker closest to 
the Finale space.
The stage of the game also determines which Event deck Sauron 
draws from during the Event step (page 14) and how much 
influence may be in the Shadow Pool (page 16).
Placing Minions
After advancing the markers, if this is the first time that a story 
marker has entered stage II or stage III of the Story Track, 
Sauron places the appropriate minion figures (as indicated on the 
Story Track) on the game board. 
At the beginning of the game, Sauron receives the “Mouth of 
Sauron” and the “Black Serpent” minions (as marked on Stage 
I of the Story Track). When the game enters stage II, Sauron 
receives the “Ringwraiths” and “Gothmog of Gorgoroth” 
minions, and finally, as the game enters stage III, he receives the 
“Witch-king” minion.
When receiving a minion, Sauron places its plastic figure on 
the starting location indicated on that minion’s space of the 
During the Story step, the hero story marker 
advances two spaces.
Sauron only has two active Plot cards. Each card 
allows him to advance his “corruption” story marker 
one space up the Story Track. 
 
If Sauron had additional active Plot cards, he would 
have been able to move additional markers (as directed 
by the cards).
Since this is the first time a story marker has entered 
stage III of the track, the current stage is now stage 
III and Sauron immediately places the “Witch-king” 
minion on one of its starting locations.
Advancing 

The Plot Step
During this step, Sauron may perform one of the following 
activities. This step is skipped on the first turn of the game.
Play a Plot Card:
 Sauron may choose a single Plot card from 
his hand to play. To play the card, Sauron must fulfill the 
requirements on the card and place it on an empty space of 
the Active Plot Track. He then places the corresponding plot 
marker in the location affected by the card. If there are no 
empty spaces on the Active Plot Track, Sauron may not play 
a Plot card.
Discard an Active Plot Card: 
Sauron may discard one of his 
Plot cards from the Active Plot Track. He typically may want 
to do this if the Active Plot Track is full and he wishes to play 
a different Plot card on a future turn.
Do Nothing:
 If Sauron has no Plot cards that he wishes to 
play and does not want to discard an Active Plot card, he may 
choose to do nothing during this step.
Plot Cards	
Plot cards represent Sauron’s plans 
and machinations to corrupt and 
dominate Middle-earth. During each 
Story step, Sauron’s story markers 
advance a number of spaces equal to 
the designated number on each of his 
Active Plot cards. 
Playing Plot Cards
In order to play a Plot card, Sauron must be able to fulfill all 
requirements on the Plot card. Most requirements are listed 
as italic text at the top of the text box (for example, “Requires a 
monster token or minion adjacent to the Woodland Realm”). 
Once a Plot card is in play, all requirements on the Plot card are 
ignored. This means that the card will remain in play even if its 
requirements are no longer met (such as the Shadow Pool no 
longer containing the required influence).
Each Plot card lists a number of influence in the upper left 
corner. This number represents the minimum amount of 
influence that must be in the Shadow Pool at the time the card is 
played. 
Affected Locations on Plot Cards
All Plot cards affect specific locations. When a plot card is 
played on the active Plot Track, the corresponding plot marker 
is immediately placed in the affected location. This marker is a 
visual reminder to the heroes of where this plot is vulnerable.
Discarding Active Plot Cards	
In order for a hero to discard an active Plot card, he must 
explore a Plot card’s affected location (as identified by the plot 
marker) during his hero turn and spend the amount of favor 
indicated on the Plot card (see “Anatomy of a Plot Card” below). 
Discarded Plot cards are removed from the Active Plot Track 
and placed faceup in a discard pile adjacent to the Plot deck. The 
corresponding plot marker is then removed from the game board.
Remember that Sauron may voluntarily discard an active Plot 
card during his The Plot step instead of playing a Plot card.
Multiple Active Plot Cards
It is important to note that if Sauron has multiple active Plot 
cards, it is possible that two (or even all three) of his story 
markers will advance on the Story Track during the Story step.
If multiple active Plot cards advance the same plot marker along 
the Story Track, simply resolve the active Plot cards one-at-a-
time – advancing the indicated plot marker two (or even three) 
times as directed.
Anatomy of a Plot Card
Influence Requirement:
 Sauron must have at least this 
much influence in the Shadow Pool in order to play this 
Plot card.
Cost to Discard: 
The amount of favor a hero must discard 
while exploring the affected location, in order to discard the 
Plot card.
Story Marker Advancement: 
As long as this card is on the 
Active Plot Track, Sauron’s matching story marker advances 
the indicated number of spaces during each Story step. 
Card Title:
 This is what the card thematically represents. 
Game Text:
 This text lists the following: 
The italicized requirements that Sauron must fulfill in 
order to play the card (if any).
The name of the affected location.
Any special rules that apply while the card is on the Active 
Plot Track (if any). 

The Event Step	
During the Event step, Sauron draws Event cards (resolving one) 
from the current stage’s Event deck. To do so, Sauron performs 
the following sequence:
Draw and Resolve Event: 
Sauron resolves this step as 
follows:
If the heroes are dominant, Sauron draws three Event 
cards from the current stage’s Event deck and resolves the 
card with the lowest priority number.
If Sauron is dominant, he draws three Event cards from 
the current stage’s Event deck and resolves the card with 
the highest priority number.
If neither team is dominant, Sauron simply draws the top 
card of the current stage’s Event deck and resolves it.
A Priority Number on an Event Card
After resolving the proper Event card, Sauron discards any other 
drawn Event cards faceup to that Event deck’s discard pile.
Place Characters and Favor:
 At the bottom of each Event 
card are instructions for placing favor and/or character 
tokens on the game board. 
 
For each favor listed, simply take one favor token from the 
Favor and Character area of the game board, placing the 
favor token in the location specified on the Event card. Then, 
for each character listed, take the corresponding character 
token from the Favor and Character area of the game board, 
placing the character token in the location designated on the 
Event card. 
 
If a designated character token is already on another location 
of the game board, it remains on its current location. 
Keep in Play or Discard: 
If the card has the event marker 
icon (green flag) in the upper right corner, it is placed on the 
Current Event Card space of the game board, discarding any 
prior card there. If the card contains no event marker icon, it 
is discarded.
Affected Locations on Event Cards
Some Event cards affect a specific location, thematically 
representing the place where the event is occurring. When such 
an Event card is placed on the Current Event Card space, also 
move the event marker to the affected location. This serves as a 
visual reminder to all of the players.
When the Event card is discarded (usually after a hero explores 
in the location), the event marker is also removed from the 
Note that if a hero explores the affected location, but does not 
activate the card’s ability, the card is not discarded (and the 
marker remains on the location). 
Also note that when an Event card is discarded, the favor and 
character tokens originally provided by it are unaffected.
Many cards and rules depend upon which side is 
dominant. A side is dominant if it has a story marker 
closer to the Finale space than its opponent. Use the 
following sequence to determine this:
The heroes count the number of spaces from their 
story marker to the Finale space. 
Sauron uses the 
lower of the following numbers: 
The number of spaces from his closest story 
marker to the Finale space.
The 
cumulative number of spaces needed for all 
his story markers to advance to The Shadow Falls 
space of the Story Track.
The side with the lower number is considered 
dominant. If they are tied, there is no dominant side.
Example: During the Event step, the hero story marker is 
four spaces away from the Finale space and Sauron’s closest 
story marker is five spaces away. However, Sauron only needs 
to advance his other two story markers one space each to reach 
The Shadow Falls space. Therefore, Sauron is dominant (as 
his count is two compared to the heroes’ four). 
Determining 
Dominance
Hero Decision 
Making
Many cards require the heroes to make decisions as a 
side. For example, an Event card may read: “The heroes 
may remove up to 3 influence/monster tokens from 
locations in Rohan or place 1 favor in Helm’s Deep.” 
The heroes must agree to remove the influence/monster 
tokens or place the favor. If they cannot all agree, they 
should decide randomly (for example by flipping a coin).
Heroes may openly discuss their Hero cards, but may 
not show their hands of cards to other players. 
He has many spies: Sauron should be present at, and be 
allowed to hear, all conversation between hero players.

Anatomy of an 
Event Card
Priority Number:
 This number is used to determine which 
of the drawn Event cards is resolved. Higher numbered cards 
tend to benefit the heroes more than lower numbered cards.
Name and Flavor Text:
 Each Event card has a thematic 
name and flavor text.
Event Marker Icon:
 Event cards that show this green flag 
icon remain in play on the Current Event Card space of the 
game board until their requirements are met or the card is 
replaced by another Event card. 
Ability:
 Each Event card has an ability that is either 
immediately resolved or, if it affects a location, is resolved 
when the requirements are met. 
Favor and Characters:
 Each Event card places favor and/
or characters on specific locations of the game board (see 
page 24). 
The Action Step
During each Action step, Sauron may take two actions (or three 
actions if playing a four player game). 
Each time Sauron performs an action, he simply chooses one of 
the three possible action types designated by the Action Track 
area on the game board. He does this by placing one of his action 
tokens on the leftmost empty space of the appropriate Action 
Track. He then resolves the action based upon the action type.
A Sauron Action Token
As long as three or fewer action tokens are on the game board, 
they remain on the spaces they were placed, reducing Sauron’s 
choice of actions and effectiveness. When Sauron places his fourth 
action token on the Action Track area, he immediately removes 
his three prior tokens, leaving the (just placed) fourth token in its 
current space (see “Example of Sauron’s Action Step” on page 19).
There are three types of actions Sauron may resolve: “Place 
Influence,” “Draw Shadow and Plot Cards,” and “Command 
Monsters and Minions.”
Place Influence 
Icon
Draw Shadow and 
Plot Cards Icon
Command Monsters 
and Minions Icon
Action: Place Influence
The Place Influence Icon
The “Place Influence” action provides Sauron with a number 
of influence tokens equal to the number on the Action Track 
space that he just covered. When taking this action, Sauron 
may immediately place up to two tokens of this influence 
in the Shadow Pool and the rest in extension of his Shadow 
Strongholds (see page 16). 
Example: Sauron places an action token on the “4” space of the 
“Place Influence” Action Track. He decides to place 1 of the influence 
in the Shadow Pool and 3 in extension of his Shadow Strongholds.
Each card that makes reference to specific locations also 
contains a number of colored jewels at the bottom of the 
card. The purpose of these jewels is to help players find 
locations mentioned on cards (by displaying the color of 
a location’s region). 
If a card makes reference to multiple locations, the jewels 
are arranged from left to right in the order the locations 
are referred to on the card.
Region jewels also appear on monster tokens displaying 
which regions each token may be placed in. 
Region 
Reference Jewels

Influence Tokens	
Sauron can gain influence through the “Place 
Influence” action as well as a number of Event, 
Shadow, and Encounter cards. Influence serves 
two functions, depending on whether it is in the 
Shadow Pool or on a location.
Influence in the Shadow Pool
Each time Sauron uses a “Place Influence” action, he receives a 
number of influence tokens from the Influence area of the game 
board. He may place up to two of these in the Shadow Pool and 
the rest in extension of Shadow Stronghold locations on the 
Influence tokens that are in the Shadow Pool enable Sauron to 
play more powerful Shadow and Plot cards. 
 
Printed in the upper lefthand corner of each 	
 
Plot and Shadow card is the amount of 
influence that Sauron must have in the 
Shadow Pool for that card to be played. 
Note that this number is simply the 
amount of influence required to play the 
card, and playing the card does not cause Sauron to discard any 
influence from the Shadow Pool. 
The amount of influence that Sauron may have in the Shadow 
Pool is equal to four times the current game stage (see 
“Understanding the Game Stages” on page 12). For example, he 
may have a maximum of four influence in the Shadow Pool during 
stage I, eight in stage II, and up to twelve during stage III. 
Influence on Locations
Throughout the game, Sauron has many opportunities to place 
influence on locations of the game board. Influence allows 
Sauron to place and move monster tokens (see page 18), makes 
locations perilous for heroes (see page 22–23), and may help 
fulfill the requirements of his Plot cards (see page 13).
Placing Influence on Locations
When Sauron places influence on a location with a “Place 
Influence” action, he must place it in extension of his Shadow 
Strongholds. 
“Extension of a Shadow Stronghold” means that Sauron must be 
able to trace a contiguous path through locations, all containing 
influence, back to a Shadow Stronghold. Such influence may 
be placed on the Shadow Stronghold itself, on a location that is 
already part of the extension, or on a location that is adjacent to 
a location that is already part of the extension (see “Example of 
Placing Influence” on page 17).
Influence tokens may never be placed in Haven locations.
Maximum Influence	
The influence strength of a Shadow Stronghold is equal 
to the number of influence tokens located on it. The red 
number on the Shadow Stronghold icon represents 
the maximum number of influence tokens that 
may be placed there. 
Each individual location in extension of the Shadow Stronghold 
cannot contain more influence than the influence strength 
of the connected Shadow Stronghold. If a location is in 
extension of multiple Shadow Strongholds, the highest influence 
strength value is used. 
If a location containing influence is, at any time, in violation of 
this rule, excess influence immediately must be removed (to a 
minimum of one influence). 
Note that it is possible for heroes to disconnect a contiguous 
chain of influence tokens. In this case remove all but one 
influence token from locations no longer in extension 
(connected to) a Shadow Stronghold. 
Action Tracks
Each of the three action types has its own Action Track. 
Each track has three numbered spaces, with the numbers 
decreasing in value from left to right. The decreasing 
numbers indicate the diminishing effect of repeated use 
of the same action. 
When Sauron takes an action, he places an action token 
on the leftmost empty space of its Action Track and 
resolves the action.
The three action types are summarized below the Action 
Tracks on the game board. Each summary uses “X” to 
represent the number provided on the related (and just 
covered) Action Track space. 

Action: Draw Shadow 
and Plot Cards
The Draw Shadow and Plot Cards Icon
The “Draw Shadow and Plot Cards” action allows Sauron to draw a 
number of Shadow and Plot cards each equal to the number on the 
Action Track space that he just covered.
To clarify, this action allows Sauron to draw the indicated 
number of Shadow cards from the Shadow deck and the same 
number of Plot cards from the Plot deck.
Sauron places the Shadow cards into his hand, but may only keep 
one of the drawn Plot cards. He selects one Plot card to add to 
his hand, placing the remaining drawn Plot cards facedown at the 
bottom of the Plot deck (in the order of his choice).
Example: Sauron places his action token on the “2” space of the 
“Draw Shadow and Plot Cards” Action Track. He draws two 
Shadow cards and two Plot cards. He takes the Shadow cards into his 
hand and selects one Plot card to keep, placing the other Plot card at 
the bottom of the Plot deck.
Shadow Cards	
Shadow cards are usually drawn by Sauron using the “Draw 
Shadow and Plot Cards” action. These cards provide a wide 
range of powerful abilities to the Sauron player.
Playing Shadow Cards
Whenever Sauron wishes to play a Shadow card, he must have 
a number of Shadow influence in the Shadow Pool equal to or 
greater than the amount required by the card (found in the 
upper left corner). 
He must also follow the timing instructions on the card. For 
example, a Shadow card reading “Play at the start of combat” may 
only be played at the start of a combat, before any steps of 
combat are performed.
Only one Shadow card may be played per player’s turn. In 
other words, in a four player game, Sauron may play up to four 
Shadow cards per round (that being one during his turn, and one 
during each of the three hero turns).
Example of Placing Influence
Taking a “Place Influence” action, Sauron places an 
action token on the “6” space of that Action Track. He 
takes six influence tokens from the Influence area. 
He decides to place one influence in the Shadow Pool.
He then places 1 influence on the Sea of Ud
ûn. He 
may do this since he can trace a path of locations with 
influence back to a Shadow Stronghold (Barad-dûr).
He places 2 influence on Barad-dûr, increasing its total to 
3 tokens. This means that each location in its extension 
may contain up to 3 influence.
He places his last 2 influence in the Dead Marshes. He 
may do this since he can now trace a path of influence 
locations back to a Shadow Stronghold (Barad-dûr) and 
as Barad-dûr’s influence strength is at least two.

Anatomy of a 
Shadow Card
Shadow Pool Requirement:
 Sauron must have at least this 
much influence in the Shadow Pool in order to play the 
Shadow card.
Card Title:
 What the card thematically represents.
Timing Restrictions:
 The italicized text instructs Sauron as 
to when he is allowed to play the card. 
Game Effect:
 These instructions must be resolved 
immediately after Sauron plays the Shadow card.
Action: Command 
Monsters and Minions
The Command Monsters and Minions Icon
The “Command Monsters and Minions” action provides Sauron 
with a number of commands equal to the number on the Action Track 
space that he just covered. 
For each command, Sauron may perform one of the following: 
Move Monster or Minion:
 Sauron chooses a monster 
token or minion on a game board location and moves it to 
an adjacent location. Unlike heroes, monster tokens and 
minions ignore movement icons when moving from location 
to location. 
 
Monster tokens may only be moved onto locations that 
contain at least one influence token. (Minions may move 
onto any location.) 
 
Note that minions are allowed to move into Haven locations, 
but Sauron cannot initiate combat against a hero in a Haven 
location unless the hero allows it. 
Place Monster Token:
 Sauron chooses one of the five 
monster token piles and draws a random token. He may 
secretly look at the face of the token and then place it facedown 
on any location matching the token’s color. Sauron must obey 
the following restrictions when placing monster tokens: 
 
- Monster tokens may only be placed on a location that 
contains at least one influence. 
 
- Sauron may only place one monster token with each 
“Command Monsters and Minions” action (regardless of the 
number of commands it provides). 
 
- Monster tokens may not be placed on locations that 
contain heroes. (However, they may be moved onto a hero’s 
location.) Also note that more than one monster token (or 
minion) can occupy the same location.
Heal Minion:
 Sauron chooses a minion on any location, 
removing up to four damage tokens from its Minion space on 
the game board. He may not heal a minion located on the 
same location as a hero.
Each monster token and minion may only receive one 
command per “Command Monsters and Minions” action. 
As a result, a monster token cannot be moved using the same 
action that brought it into play. Also, for that same reason, a 
monster token or minion cannot be moved twice using the 
same action.
It is also important to note that all combat (see pages 27–32) 
occurs during hero turns. If a monster token or minion moves 
into a hero location, combat does not occur until the hero’s next 
Ambush step (see page 22).
Example: Sauron places his action token on the “3” space of the 
“Command Monsters and Minions” Action Track. As his first 
command, Sauron draws a monster token from the region color of 
his choice, looks at it, and then places it on a location (containing an 
influence token) in that region. Using his second command, he moves 
one of his minions to an adjacent location. For his third and final 
command, he heals a different minion, removing four damage tokens 
from its minion space on the game board.
Minions	
Each of Sauron’s five minions is 
represented by a plastic figure. They 
represent Sauron’s most powerful 
lieutenants and are critical in defending 
Sauron’s plots.
As previously described, two of his minions (“The Black 
Serpent” and “The Mouth of Sauron”) begin in play at the start 
of the game. The remaining minions are placed into play as the 
game enters stages II and III, as illustrated on the Story Track.
Each minion’s attributes and special abilities are listed on the 
minion’s space of the game board, where Sauron will also place 
any damage tokens dealt to that minion. Such damage tokens 
remain on the minion until it is healed (see above) or defeated (see 

Monster Tokens	
Sauron can place monster tokens in any 
location containing influence by using the 
“Command Monsters and Minions” action. 
Sixty percent of the monster tokens represent 
actual monsters, while the remaining forty 
percent are blank and represent false rumors of monsters.
Once a monster token has been placed on the board, Sauron may 
look at its face at any time.
Although monsters are weaker than minions, they can still deal 
damage to heroes and are useful in hindering hero movement. 
There is no limit to the number of monster tokens (or minions) 
that may be in a single location.
The Hero Draw Step
During this step, each hero player draws cards from his life pool 
equal to his hero’s fortitude. 
There is no limit to the number of cards that a hero may have 
in his hand, although hero players should be aware that some 
Shadow cards force all heroes to discard down to five cards. 
Heroes are not required to draw all of the cards allowed by their 
fortitude, although they will usually want to draw all of them.
It is the start of Sauron’s Action step. Since there are two 
hero players in the game, Sauron can take two actions 
during this step.
He already has action tokens on the “6” and “5” spaces 
of the “Place Influence” Action Track from his previous 
Action step. These tokens remain on the track until his 
fourth action token is placed.
He takes his first action by placing an action token on 
the “4” space of the “Place Influence” Action Track. 
This allows him to place up to two influence in his 
Shadow Pool, and the rest in extension of his 
Shadow Strongholds. He cannot place his action token 
on the “6” or “5” spaces of this track, as they are already 
occupied by prior action tokens. 
He takes his second action by placing an action token on 
the “3” space of the “Command Monsters and Minions” 
Action Track. He then gives commands to three 
different monsters/minions (see page 18). 
Since he has placed his fourth action token on the game 
board, he retrieves all tokens except for the one he just 
placed on the “Command Monsters and Minions” space. 
Example of Sauron’s Action Step

“Faithless is he that says farewell when the road darkens,” said Gimli. 
“Maybe,” said Elrond, “but let him not vow to walk in the dark, 
who has not yet seen the nightfall.”
– Exchange between Gimli and Elrond, 
from the chapter “The Ring Goes South” 
This section defines the core concepts and rules for the hero 
players, focusing on the steps of the hero players’ turns. 
Hero Turn in Detail
During each hero player’s turn, he performs the following steps 
in order.
The Rest Step
During this step, the current hero may rest (or in some cases, heal). 
Throughout the game, as a hero travels throughout Middle-earth 
and faces Sauron’s creatures in combat, he will be forced to place 
Hero cards into his rest and damage pools (as separated by the 
sides of his hero sheet). 
Should a hero run out of cards in his hand and in his life pool, he 
is defeated (see page 32). Managing the Hero cards is therefore an 
important element of the hero gameplay.
To rest, the hero simply shuffles all cards from his rest pool into 
his life pool. He must then advance the leftmost Sauron 
story marker one space on the Story Track (if there is a tie, he 
may choose which of the tied Sauron story markers to advance). 
If there is a monster or minion on the hero’s location, or if he is 
on a Shadow Stronghold location, he may not rest (and this step 
is skipped).
Discarding Corruption Cards
Whenever a hero rests, he may also discard one of his 
Corruption cards by discarding the required number of favor 
tokens listed in the lower right corner of the Corruption card.
Healing
When a hero rests in a Haven location, he may also heal.
When healing, a player shuffles all cards from his damage pool 
into his life pool. (In other words, when a player rests on a 
Haven location, he shuffles all cards from both his rest pool and 
damage pool into his life pool.)
Understanding the Hero Sheet
A player’s hero sheet lists his hero’s special ability and attributes, 
and is used to keep track of his different pools of Hero cards.
1) Combat Chart
Each hero has a five-sided chart representing the ratio of 
Ranged (blue) to Melee (red) cards in his deck. This chart is 
useful to players during combat, especially when Sauron is 
trying to anticipate the hero’s combat strategy.
2) Ability
Each hero has a special ability that provides him with a unique 
advantage that may be used as instructed on the sheet.
3) Starting Location
Each hero sheet indicates where that hero’s plastic figure is 
placed at the start of the game. This location is listed at the 
bottom of his sheet as his “Starting Location” and is marked 
with a colored jewel of the appropriate region (see page 15).
4) Attributes 
Each hero sheet lists the hero’s four attributes: fortitude, 
strength, agility, and wisdom. Each hero has varying levels of 
these attributes, which are summarized on the hero sheet and 
described in detail below:
Fortitude
A hero’s fortitude determines how many cards he draws during 
the Hero Ready step of the Sauron player’s turn. These cards are 
drawn from the top of his life pool and placed in his hand. (They 
are later played for the hero to travel on the game board and to 
combat enemies.)
Heroes are never required to draw all the cards allowed by their 
fortitude, but will usually want to. There is no limit to the 
number of cards a hero may have in his hand.
Strength
A hero’s strength limits how many cards he may play during 
combat. Each Hero card has a varying strength cost when played 
during combat, as listed on the bottom left of the card. See 
“Combat” on pages 27–32 for more information on using strength.
Hero Game Rules

Agility
A hero’s agility determines how many cards he may draw at the 
start of combat or how much of a strength bonus he receives.
During the Preparation step of combat, the hero player must 
decide how much of his agility he will use to draw Hero cards 
and how much of his agility he will add to his strength (see 
“Preparation” on page 28). 
Wisdom 
A hero’s wisdom determines the hero’s ability to avoid perilous 
locations (and also affects the outcome of many Encounter cards).
During a hero’s Travel step, if the amount of influence on a location 
exceeds the hero’s wisdom, that location is considered perilous for 
that hero, and Sauron may draw three cards from the Peril deck 
and choose one for the hero to resolve (see pages 22–23). 
The Hero Card Pools
Three edges of each hero sheet are labeled with the words 
“Life Pool,” “Rest Pool,” and “Damage Pool,” respectively. 
At the start of the game, each hero shuffles his Hero deck 
and places it facedown adjacent to the “Life Pool” edge of 
his hero sheet. Throughout the game, two additional card 
pools are created on the “Rest Pool” and “Damage Pool” 
sides of the hero sheet (these are effectively discard piles 
from the main Hero deck located in the life pool). 
These three pools are used to track the health of the hero 
(the life pool), how tired he is from exerting himself (the 
rest pool), and how wounded he is (the damage pool).
1) The Life Pool
The cards of the “Life Pool” are always kept in a facedown 
deck. This is the only pool that a hero can normally draw 
cards from. If this pool of cards runs out and the hero has 
no cards left in his hand, he is immediately defeated (see 
The number of cards in each hero’s life pool is open 
information and may be counted by any player at any time 
(although the card faces remain secret).
2) The Rest Pool
The cards of the “Rest Pool” are always kept faceup. 
Whenever a hero is required to discard Hero cards (for 
example when traveling on the game board), they are 
placed faceup on top of this pool. When a hero rests, he 
takes all cards in his rest pool and shuffles them (facedown) 
into his life pool.
Players are allowed to examine the cards in a hero’s 
rest pool at any time, although they are not allowed to 
rearrange the order of the cards. 
3) The Damage Pool
The cards of the “Damage Pool” are always kept facedown. 
Whenever a hero is dealt damage, he must discard an equal 
number of cards from either his hand or from his life pool 
(in any combination) facedown to his damage pool. When 
a player heals, he shuffles all cards from his damage pool 
into his life pool (see page 20).
The number of cards in each hero’s damage pool is open 
information and may be counted by any player at any time 
(although the card faces remain secret). 

The Ambush Step
If the current hero is on a location containing one or more 
monster tokens (and/or minions), Sauron must choose one of 
those monster tokens (or minions) that the hero must engage in 
combat. 
 
Note, if the hero is defeated in this combat, his turn immediately 
ends (see page 32).
If the current hero is in a Haven location, combat only takes 
place if the hero allows it.
The Travel Step
During the Travel step, the current hero can move and explore 
adjacent locations. 
This step is unique in that it may be performed as many times 
as the hero wishes, or is able (usually only limited by the 
amount of Hero cards in the current hero’s hand, or if the hero is 
defeated in combat during this step).
Each time a hero performs this step, he enacts all parts of the 
sequence below:
a) Move
The hero may move to an adjacent location by discarding the 
required Hero card(s) from his hand.
Every path between adjacent locations on the game board contains a 
movement icon and number, reflecting the cost of moving between 
these two locations. There are six different movement icons (hill, 
mountain, forest, plains, swamp, and any card). 
A Hill and an Any Card 
Movement Icon on Paths
To move from one location to another, the hero must discard 
one card from his hand with an icon matching the movement 
icon on the connecting path. 
If the hero cannot, or does not wish to, discard a card with a 
matching icon, he may instead discard a number of cards equal 
to the number on the movement icon. 
When a hero discards Hero cards, they are placed faceup in a discard 
pile on the “Rest Pool” edge of his hero sheet (see page 21).
For example, during the Travel step, the current hero wishes to move across 
a path with a “hill (3)” movement icon. To move across this path, the hero 
must discard either one Hero card containing a hill icon, or discard any three 
Hero cards. Any discarded Hero cards are placed in his rest pool.
A Hill Movement Icon on a Hero Card
Traveling on Water Paths 
Blue paths signify that they are water paths. A hero may move 
along these paths as if they were normal paths, but they 
become much easier to traverse if the hero has a “Boat” Item 
card. (When a hero has a “Boat” Item card, he can travel across 
water paths by discarding any one Hero card from his hand, 
regardless of the movement icon printed on the path.)
A Forest Icon on a Water Path
The Any Card Icon 
The “any card” icon signifies that the player must simply discard 
any one Hero card from his hand to cross the path. 
b) Combat or Peril
When traveling on the game board, heroes may often face 
combat against Sauron’s ever-multiplying creatures. 
After the current hero has moved to a new location that is 
perilous (see below) and/or contains one or more monster tokens or 
minions, Sauron must resolve one of the following (if able):
Monster or Minion Attack:
 If there is a monster token or 
minion in the hero’s new location, then Sauron can choose 
this option. If so, he must flip over a monster token of his 
choice, or choose a minion in the location. 
 
The hero must now engage in combat with the selected 
monster or minion. 
 
If the hero does not defeat this monster or minion in 
combat, the hero’s turn immediately ends. (This is unlike 
combat during the Ambush step, in which the hero may 
continue his turn unless he is defeated.) 
 
If the chosen monster token is blank (that is, does not contain 
an illustration of a monster), it is discarded, and the hero 
proceeds to the Explore part of this Travel step.
Peril:
 If the hero’s location is perilous, Sauron may choose this 
option. To do so, he draws three cards from the Peril deck 
and chooses one for the hero’s location/region to resolve. 
 
After resolving the Peril card, all three drawn cards are 
discarded faceup to a discard pile adjacent to the Peril deck. 
 
Note that Sauron may not choose a Peril card that does not 
affect the hero’s current location or region (see next page). 
If none of the cards affect the hero’s location or region, the 
three Peril cards are discarded without effect.
A Permanently Perilous Location

Peril Cards	
	
Peril cards portray corrupt and evil 
events that can afflict heroes as they 
travel through the lands of Middle-earth 
infested by the shadow (represented 
by Sauron’s influence tokens or by 
permanently perilous locations). 
A perilous location is defined as any 
permanently perilous location 
(illustrated with the peril frame), or a 
hero’s current location containing 
more influence tokens than the hero’s 
wisdom.
Affected Location:
 This text indicates which specific 
locations that this card affects. If the current hero’s location 
does not match the name printed here, Sauron may not 
choose this card for the hero to resolve. 
 
Some peril cards affect “Any Location” and may always be 
chosen by Sauron regardless of the hero’s current location. 
Title and Flavor Text:
 Each Peril card has a title and flavor 
text explaining what the card thematically represents.
Card Effect:
 Below the flavor text are the instructions that 
the hero must follow when resolving the Peril card.
Travel Step Example
It is Argalad’s Travel step. He discards a Hero card with 
a forest icon to move from the Woodland Realm to 
The Forest Trail. Since there are no monster tokens or 
minions on The Forest Trail, and it is not perilous, he 
skips the “Combat or Peril” part of this Travel step. 
During Argalad’s Explore part of this Travel step, he 
consults with Gandalf, where he chooses to receive two 
favor tokens. He then moves Gandalf to the Favor and 
Character area of the game board.
Next, he chooses to take another Travel step. He 
discards one Hero card with a mountain icon to move 
from The Forest Trail to The High Pass.
Since The High Pass contains more influence than 
Argalad’s wisdom, the location is perilous for him. After 
the hero enters the location, Sauron draws three Peril 
cards and chooses one for Argalad to resolve. 
Argalad does not explore The High Pass and decides 
to take another Travel step. As he does not have any 
additional Hero cards with a mountain icon, he discards 
three Hero cards from his hand to move from The High 
Pass to the Gladden Fields.
Since there is a monster token on the Gladden Fields 
location, Aragalad must face “Combat or Peril.” 
Sauron flips the monster token over and reveals an Orc 
monster. Argalad must now combat the Orc. 
 
If he fails to defeat the Orc, Argalad’s turn will 
immediately end. Otherwise, he may continue his Travel 
step (starting with exploring the Gladden Fields).

c) Explore
After moving to a new location (and possibly resolving combat 
or peril), the hero may explore his current location to gain a 
variety of different benefits. Whenever a hero explores, he may 
do any or all of the following in any order: 
Retrieve Favor:
 He may retrieve any number of favor tokens 
on his current location and place them on his hero sheet.
Consult with Characters:
 He may receive favor from or use 
the ability of each Character on his current location, but not 
both (see “Character Tokens” below). The character is then 
returned to the Favor and Character area of the game board.
Choose a Dark Path:
 If the hero has 3 or less Corruption cards, 
he may choose to gain 1 favor and 1 Corruption card. A hero 
may only choose a dark path once during each of his turns. 
Complete a Quest:
 He may complete any Quests for which 
he has fulfilled the requirements (see “Quest Cards” on page 
25). There is no limit to the number of Quests that can be 
completed here.
Discard a Plot:
 He may discard any of Sauron’s active Plot 
cards that affect the hero’s current location (if any) by following 
the Plot card’s discard requirements (usually by spending favor). 
See “Discarding Active Plot Cards” on page 13.
Trade with Heroes:
 All heroes in the current hero’s location 
may freely trade favor, Item cards, and Quests with each 
other (excluding Starting and Advanced Quests). 
 
Example: Argalad is exploring in Beravor’s location. Even 
though Beravor has already taken her turn, Argalad may trade 
with her. Beravor decides that Argalad really needs her favor, and 
freely gives all of her favor tokens to him. 
If a player wishes to explore the location that he started his turn 
on, he may skip the “Move” and the “Combat or Peril” parts of 
his first Travel step and then explore in his current location (after 
which he may choose to take additional Travel steps, as normal). 
Favor Tokens	
Favor tokens represent the support and good will of 
the various nations and leaders of Middle-earth. Favor 
is collected by heroes and may be spent (discarded) for 
a variety of different reasons (for example to discard a Plot card).
Favor can be gained from a variety of sources, such as by 
completing Quests, consulting with characters, and collecting it 
from locations on the game board. When a hero gains favor, he 
takes the appropriate number of favor tokens from his location 
(or from the “Favor and Character” area if provided by a card) 
and places them on his hero sheet. 
Character Tokens	
Character tokens represent the powerful leaders 
and influential people of Middle-earth. At the 
start of the game, they are placed in the Favor and 
Character area of the game board. 
Various Event and Quest cards instruct players to 
place particular characters on locations of the game board. 
During the Explore part of a hero’s Travel step, he may consult 
with characters in his location.
Consulting with a Character
When a hero consults with a character, he may do one of 
the following:
Use Ability:
 The hero may use the ability printed on the 
character token. This often allows the hero to gain a level (see 
page 26) or some other special reward. 
Gain Favor:
 The hero may choose to gain the favor listed on 
the character. He simply takes the amount of favor from the 
Favor and Character area of the game board, placing it on his 
hero sheet.
After the hero finishes consulting with a character, the 
character token is returned to the Favor and Character area of 
the game board.
The Encounter Step
After the current hero has finished his Travel step, and if he is 
not in a perilous location, he must draw Encounter cards. 
To do so, he draws three cards from the Encounter deck 
matching his location’s color (i.e., the matching color of one of 
the two large jewels on the corresponding Encounter deck).
If the current hero is on a Haven location, he must instead draw 
three cards from the Haven Encounter deck (illustrated with the 
three white towers).
He then resolves the card with the lowest priority number 
that also affects his location. The other two cards are discarded 
faceup adjacent to the Encounter deck.
If none of the Encounter cards affect the hero’s current location 
or region, then they are all discarded, and the hero’s turn is over.
Note that if two or more Encounter cards are drawn, all of 
which match the hero’s current location, the lowest priority 
number Encounter card is still the one that is resolved.
Most Encounter cards are resolved immediately and then 
discarded. However, if the term “Quest” appears in italics at the 
top of the text box, the hero player places the card faceup in his 
play area (see “Quests” on page 25). 
If an Encounter deck runs out of cards, the deck’s discard pile is 
shuffled to create a new draw deck.
 

Anatomy of an 
Encounter Card
Priority Number: 
When a hero resolves Encounter cards, 
he draws three and resolves the card with the lowest priority 
number that also affects his location (see “Affected Location” 
below).
Affected Location :
 This text indicates which specific 
locations that this card affects. If the hero’s current location 
does not match the name printed here, he cannot resolve 
this card (and proceeds to examine the affected location on 
the next highest numbered Encounter card).
Region Colors:
 The color of the card and top colored jewel 
signify which region(s) this card may affect. This color is 
simply a visual reminder of the affected region.
Title and Flavor Text: 
Each Encounter card has a title and 
flavor text explaining what the card thematically represents.
Card Effect:
 Below the flavor text are the instructions that 
the hero must follow when resolving the Encounter card.
Quests	
All Quest cards are found in the 
Starting/Advanced Quest decks and 
Encounter decks. 
Only some Encounter cards are 
considered Quests. What defines them 
as Quests is the word “Quest” in italic 
letters at the top of the card’s text box.
Each Quest describes a task that must 
be completed to receive the reward 
indicated on the card. By completing Quests, heroes receive 
rewards and upgrades that improve their skills and abilities. 
Completing Quests may also stall Sauron’s pursuit of his 
objectives. A hero may have any number non-completed Quests 
in his play area at one time.
Completing Quests
All Quests require the hero player to fulfill specific objectives 
in order to complete them. Once a hero player completes the 
requirements of one of his Quests (requirements are always listed 
as bullet points in the card text), he receives the indicated reward. 
Completed Quests are returned to the game box and are not 
used for the remainder of the game.
Unless otherwise specified, Quests are completed during the 
Explore part of the hero’s Travel step. 
A Quest is always assigned to a specific hero and may only 
be completed by the hero who is displaying it in his play area. 
Remember, however, that heroes may trade Quests (excluding 
Starting and Advanced Quests) to other heroes when exploring 
their location.
Encounter Step Example
It is Argalad’s Encounter step. Since he is on the 
Gladden Fields, he draws three Encounter cards from 
the green Encounter deck. He then sorts the three cards 
from lowest to highest priority number.
He first checks the affected location/region on the lowest 
numbered Encounter card. Since it does not match his 
location, he will not resolve this card.
He then checks the affected location on the next lowest 
numbered card. Since it matches his location (which is in 
the Misty Mountains region), he now resolves it. 
 
Since it is a Quest, he places the card in his play area, 
where he will later be able to complete it.
He does not resolve the third Encounter card, because 
he already resolved a lower numbered Encounter card 
this Encounter step.

“But still she was there, who was there before Sauron, and before the 
first stone of Barad-dûr; and she served none but herself, drinking the 
blood of Elves and Men, bloated and grown fat with endless brooding 
on her feasts, weaving webs of shadow, for all living things were her 
food, and her vomit darkness.”
– Description of Shelob, Daughter of Ungoliant 
The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers
This section describes in detail all other game components and 
how they are used throughout the game.
Level tokens are used to mark a hero’s 
increased experience in one of his four 
attributes (fortitude, strength, agility, and 
wisdom). Each level token lists an attribute 
type, as well as the new higher value replacing the 
hero’s previous attribute value.
Level tokens can be gained from a variety of sources, such as by 
completing Quests and consulting with characters. When a hero 
gains a level, he receives the type of level token indicated by the 
source providing the level. For example, “Gain one wisdom” 
means the hero receives a “wisdom” level token with a value one 
higher than the hero’s current wisdom. 
The player places the token over the appropriate attribute on his 
hero sheet. 
Example: Eometh completes a Quest that awards him a level of 
wisdom. Since his wisdom is currently “2,” he finds a “Wisdom 3” 
level token and places it on his hero sheet. He now has 3 wisdom for 
the remainder of the game (unless he increases it again).
Each hero may increase each of his attributes a maximum of 
twice per game. In other words, a hero may gain a maximum of 
eight level increases – two for each of his attributes. If a reward 
would allow a hero to gain a third increase to an attribute, then 
he simply does not gain this benefit. 
Be aware that level tokens are double-sided and contain different 
numbers on the fronts and backs.
Skill Cards	
Skill cards represent different 
combat abilities and training that 
heroes can receive throughout the 
game. Skill cards can be gained 
from a variety of sources, such 
as from Quests, Event cards, and 
characters.
Although they share a common 
card back with Hero cards, every 
Skill card is marked with the skill 
icon (
) to help distinguish them. 
Training
Skill cards are usually acquired when a card allows a hero to 
receive training. When a hero receives training, he draws the top 
two cards of the Skill deck, chooses one to place into his hand, 
and discards the other faceup in a pile adjacent to the Skill deck. 
Once a Skill card has been added to a hero’s hand, it is part of his 
deck for the rest of the game. This means it is treated as a Hero 
card in all respects. It can be played like a normal Hero card and 
increases his maximum health (since it is now part of his deck).
Item Cards	
Item cards provide permanent 
ongoing abilities. Item cards can be 
gained from a variety of sources, 
such as Quests, Event cards, 
and characters. 
When a hero receives an Item card, 
he simply searches the Item deck 
for the specified card and places it 
faceup in his play area. As long as 
the card remains in front of him, he 
may take advantage of the abilities 
described on it.
Each hero may only have one of each Item card title at a time 
(for example, a hero may not gain a second “Horse” Item card).
Corruption Cards	
	
Corruption cards are given to heroes by 
a number of Shadow cards, Event cards, 
and Encounter cards. Heroes can even 
choose to receive a Corruption card in 
exchange for favor (see page 24).
Corruption cards inflict ongoing negative effects that hinder 
a hero’s ability to fight against Sauron’s growing power. In 
addition, many Shadow cards are more powerful when played 
on a corrupted hero.
When a hero rests, he may discard one of his Corruption cards 
by spending the amount of favor listed in the lower right corner 
of the card. There are also a number of Event and Encounter 
cards (especially in Havens) that allow heroes to remove 
Corruption cards for free. 
 
Other Game Elements

“His broad flat face was swart, his eyes were like coals, and his tongue 
was red; he wielded a great spear. With a thrust of his huge hide 
shield he turned Boromir’s sword and bore him backwards, throwing 
him to the ground.”
– Description of an orc captain in the chapter 
“The Bridge of Khazad-dûm” 
Throughout the game, heroes often need to combat Sauron’s 
monsters and minions. Each combat always involves two 
combatants: a single hero against a single monster or minion.
Combat in Middle-earth Quest is very fast and relatively simple. 
Combat is resolved over a number of combat rounds. A round 
consists of each player choosing a card from his hand and 
placing it facedown in front of himself. The cards are then 
simultaneously turned faceup, the effects are resolved, and 
damage is dealt to the combatants.
If one combatant is defeated (reaches 0 health) the combat 
ends. Otherwise, combat continues until both combatants are 
exhausted, after which the combat ends (see page 32). 
Combat never occurs in Haven locations, unless the hero allows 
for the combat to take place.
Below we will use the term “Combat cards” to refer to both the 
Monster Combat cards and the Hero cards (including any Skill 
cards in the Hero deck).
Anatomy of a Monster 
Reference Card
“And there were murmured hints of creatures more terrible than all 
these, but they had no name.”
Monster Reference cards list the necessary information about 
the 14 monster types. Each Monster Reference card provides the 
following information.
Health:
 Each Monster Reference card has a health value. 
This represents how much damage is required to defeat the 
monster (see page 32).
Monster Name:
 Each monster has a name which may be 
referred to by other card types. 
Combat Chart:
 Each Monster Reference card has a small 
circular chart that represents the ratio of Ranged (blue) to 
Melee (red) cards in its deck. This chart is useful during 
combat, especially when the heroes are trying to anticipate 
Sauron’s combat strategy. 
Combat Deck: 
Each Monster Reference card indicates 
which of the three Monster Combat decks this monster uses 
during combat: “Zealot,” “Marauder,” or “Behemoth.” 
Attributes:
 Each monster and minion has three attributes 
that function slightly differently from the heroes’ attributes:
Fortitude:
 This attribute indicates the number of cards that 
Sauron draws from the appropriate Monster Combat deck 
at the start of combat. 
Strength:
 This attribute limits the number of cards that the 
combatant may use during combat. If the sum of all of a 
monster’s Combat cards played during combat exceeds its 
strength, it becomes exhausted. 
Wisdom:
 This attribute indicates the number of influence 
tokens that Sauron may place in extension of Shadow 
Strongholds at the end of combat if this combatant is not 
defeated (see page 32). 
Special Ability:
 Each monster has a special ability that is 
triggered from Ranged (blue) or Melee (red) cards. These 
abilities provide Sauron with interesting options during 
combat and make each monster type unique.
Sauron’s minions do not have reference cards; instead their 
relevant combat information (and other abilities) are printed 
in the Minion area of the game board. Minions’ numerical 
attributes work exactly the same way as those of the monsters.
A Minion Space on the Game Board
Combat

Monster Combat 	
 
Sauron has three different decks 
of Monster Combat cards: the 
“Zealot” deck, the “Ravager” 
deck, and the “Behemoth” 
deck. Each deck has a different 
assortment of cards, giving 
different combat capabilities 
to several monster types. 
Each Monster Reference card and 
Minion space of the game board 
indicates which of these decks that monster or minion 
uses during combat. 
Steps of Combat
This section describes the steps of combat in detail. This 
sequence must be followed, in order, until the combat has ended.
Sauron Setup: 
The Sauron player takes the appropriate 
Monster Reference card (if a monster is in the combat) and 
matching Monster Combat deck as listed on the Monster 
Reference card or on the appropriate Minion space of the 
 
For example: Argalad is fighting an Orc. Before the combat 
begins, Sauron takes the Orc Monster Reference card and the 
indicated “Zealot” Monster Combat deck.
Preparation:
 The Sauron player draws a number of cards 
equal to his combatant’s fortitude from the appropriate 
Monster Combat deck. The hero player then announces how 
much of his agility he will be spending to draw cards from 
his life pool, and then draws that number of cards. 
 
Each unspent agility gives the hero +1 strength until the end 
of the combat.
Rounds of Combat: 
Each round, both players play a 
Combat card facedown from their hand. The cards are then 
simultaneously revealed, abilities are resolved, and both 
combatants are dealt damage. These steps are repeated (as 
follows) until one combatant is defeated or both combatants are 
exhausted. Each combat round consists of the following parts:
Choose Cards:
 Each combatant chooses one card from 
his hand, placing it facedown in front of himself. 
 
An exhausted combatant may not play additional cards, and 
must skip this part.
Reveal Cards:
 After both players have chosen a card, the 
cards are simultaneously turned faceup. Each player then 
places his card faceup on top of his combat stack (see page 29). 
 
If one of the players is exhausted, he has no card to reveal, 
and only his opponent reveals a card. The exhausted player 
is presumed to have zero attack, zero defense, and no card 
ability, and his combat type is considered to be neither 
melee nor ranged.
Card Type:
 The icon in the upper left and color of 
the top of the card indicate the card’s type. Each 
card is either Melee (red with crossed swords icon) 
or Ranged (blue with a bow icon).
Attack Value:
 Each card has a numeric value listed 
at the top center of the card. This value is how much 
damage the card deals.
Defense Value:
 Each card has a defense value that 
is represented by a number of shield icons in the 
top right corner. This value is subtracted from the 
opponent’s attack value to determine how much 
damage the combatant is dealt. 
Ability:
 Each card has a special combat ability listed 
in the center of the card. This ability has a name 
(listed above it) and text describing its effect.
Strength Cost:
 Each card has a strength cost listed 
as a number in the lower left corner. This cost is 
used during combat to restrict how many cards each 
combatant can play (see page 29).
Owner:
 Each card indicates which deck it belongs to 
at the bottom of the card. This indication takes the 
form of a name (such as “Behemoth”) or an image 
(such as the skill icon or a portrait of a hero). 
Movement Icon (Heroes Only):
 Each Hero and 
Skill card has a movement icon on the lower right 
corner. These icons are used during a hero’s Travel 
step (see pages 22–23).
Anatomy of A 
Combat Card

Calculate Strength: 
Both players now add up the 
cumulative strength cost of all cards in their combat 
stack. If this total exceeds the combatant’s strength, that 
combatant immediately becomes exhausted and his card 
is canceled. 
 
If both combatants become exhausted during this step, 
neither combatant is defeated and play proceeds to step 4. 
Previous Round Abilities:
 If the card text of any card 
played in the previous combat denotes “Next Round,” then 
those abilities are resolved at this time (unless otherwise 
specified), first by the hero and then by Sauron. 
 
Note that if one of the combatants became exhausted this 
round, his previous round ability is canceled.
Current Round Abilities:
 All abilities from cards that 
were played during this round are now resolved, first by the 
hero and then by Sauron. 
Deal Damage:
 Each combatant is simultaneously dealt 
damage equal to his opponent’s total attack value minus his 
own defense value. (For example, if the monster’s attack 
value is 5 and the hero’s defense value is 3, the hero is dealt 
2 damage.) 
 
If, after this part of the sequence, a combatant is defeated 
(see page 32), play proceeds to step 4. Otherwise, another 
combat round begins starting with “a. Choose Cards.”
Resolution:
 After all rounds of combat have been resolved, 
players perform the following steps: 
Discard Cards:
 The hero places his combat stack (keeping 
the cards in order) faceup on top of his rest pool. Sauron 
takes his combat stack and shuffles it back into the 
appropriate Monster Combat deck. 
Discard Monster Token:
 If a monster token was involved 
in the combat, the token is now discarded faceup adjacent 
to the pile of unused tokens. This step is performed 
regardless of whether the monster was defeated or not. 
 
Note that undefeated minions are not removed, and remain 
on their current location after combat. 
Undefeated Monster or Minion: 
If the monster or 
minion was not defeated, then Sauron may immediately 
place an amount of influence equal to his combatant’s 
wisdom in extension of Shadow Strongholds. If this 
happens during a hero’s Travel step, then the hero’s turn 
immediately ends.
Combat Keywords
This section describes some of the words and phrases that often 
appear in combat abilities.
Cancel:
 Cancel abilities are extremely powerful. Whenever 
a card is canceled, all text on the card is ignored, and the 
owner’s final attack and defense value are considered zero. 
Note that the numbers may not be modified above zero and 
that a canceled card’s strength cost is not reduced (in other 
words, the canceled card must still be paid for in strength by 
its combatant). 
 
If two cards cancel each other, then they are both blank 
with zero attack and defense. If a card is canceled that has a 
“next round” ability, then the ability may not be used on the 
following round (since text on the card is ignored).
Deal [X] Damage:
 Some cards directly deal damage 
regardless of the opponent’s defense value. Such damage 
is dealt when the ability is resolved, although combatants 
cannot be defeated until the Deal Damage part of the round. 
Modifying Attack or Defense:
 Many Combat cards increase 
a card’s attack or defense values (such as “+1 attack”). These 
cards simply modify the card’s final attack or defense values 
for the “Deal Damage” step of a combat round. 
If Opponent’s Printed (Attack or Defense) Is [X]: 
Some 
cards are dependent upon the attack or defense values of the 
opponent’s cards. This number is always derived from the 
other card’s printed value (and not from the card’s modified 
value, if any). 
 
Example: The hero player reveals a card with the following text: 
“Gain +5 attack if your opponent’s printed defense is 0.” The 
opposing monster reveals a card with zero defense that has the 
text: “Gain +2 defense.” In this case, the hero’s card does gain 
+5 attack and the monster gains +2 defense. The hero card effect 
is applied because its ability is triggered off the printed value of 
the monster’s card, not the modified one.
Reduce to 0:
 If a combatant’s attack or defense is reduced 
to zero, then this value cannot be increased above zero (any 
modifiers are ignored).
Combat Stack:
 All cards that each combatant plays during 
combat must remain in front of him in a pile known as his 
“combat stack.” The purpose of each combatant’s stack is 
to keep track of how much strength he has spent, as well as 
which cards he played during the previous combat rounds. 
 
Certain cards manipulate the combat stack by adding or 
subtracting cards from it (thus costing the player more or 
less strength). 
Types:
 Many Combat cards refer to a Combat card’s type. 
Each card is either Ranged (blue) or Melee (red).
 Ranged Combat 
Card Icon
 Melee Combat 
Card Icon

Combat Example Round 1
Argalad is fighting an Orc in combat. Sauron takes the 
“Orc” Monster Reference card and the “Zealot” Monster 
Combat deck and places them in front of himself.
Sauron draws five cards since the Orc’s fortitude is “5.” 
The hero decides to use one of his agility to draw a hero 
card and adds the remaining two agility to his hero’s 
strength (giving him a total strength of “7”).
The first combat round begins. Sauron and the hero both 
secretly and simultaneously choose a card from their 
hand and play them facedown.
Both players simultaneously reveal their cards. 
Both players now total strength. Each has spent two 
strength, and because this is not more than either 
combatant’s strength, neither combatant is exhausted.
Since it is the first round of combat, there are no “Next 
Round” abilities from a previous round. 
 
The abilities on the revealed cards are then resolved. 
Sauron’s card reduces his opponent’s defense to 0, while 
the hero’s ability will help him out in the next round. 
The Orc’s “Fanatical” ability would also be resolved at 
this time (if able).
Both combatants are then dealt damage. The hero is 
dealt 2 damage (2 from his opponent’s attack, minus his 
defense of 0). Argalad discards two Hero cards from his 
life pool, placing them in his damage pool.
The Orc is then dealt 1 damage (2 attack minus 1 
defense). Since neither combatant was defeated, another 
combat round begins (see page 31). 

Combat Example Round 2
The second combat round begins. Sauron and the hero 
both secretly and simultaneously choose a card from 
their hand and play them facedown.
Both players then simultaneously reveal their cards. 
Both players now total their strength. The Orc has spent 
a total of five strength (two from last round and three 
from this round). Since this is more than his strength of 
“4,” he is exhausted and his card is canceled. 
 
Argalad has also spent a total of five strength. He is not 
exhausted because this does not exceed his strength of “7.” 
Argalad now resolves his “Next Round” ability from the 
previous round. It provides him with +2 attack, since he 
played a Ranged card this round. 
Argalad now resolves his ability from this round. It does 
not provide him with +3 attack since his opponent is 
exhausted (and therefore did not play a Melee card). 
 
The Orc is not able to resolve any abilities (from this 
round or the previous round), because he is exhausted. 
The Orc has 0 defense (because he is exhausted) and 
is then dealt 5 damage (3 attack plus 2 attack from 
Argalad’s previous round ability). 
 
Since the number of damage tokens (6) is at least equal 
to the Orc’s health (3), the Orc is defeated. Combat 
proceeds to the Resolution step. 

Combat Timing
Most combat cards have clear instructions about when their text 
is resolved. If multiple cards are resolved at the same time, the 
hero player’s combat card is always resolved first.
Exhausted Combatants
If a combatant plays a Combat card that causes the cumulative 
strength of the cards in his combat stack to exceed his strength 
attribute, he becomes exhausted. 
When a player becomes exhausted during Calculate Strength 
(part c), the Combat card he just played is canceled (meaning that 
the attack and defense is reduced to zero and any ability on the 
card is ignored). 
When one combatant is exhausted, his opponent continues to 
resolve combat rounds until either a) a combatant is defeated, 
or b) both combatants have become exhausted. At which point, 
Combat proceeds to Resolution (step 4).
Important: Before the start of any combat round, if a combatant 
does not have any combat cards in his hand (or does not wish to 
play cards), he declares himself exhausted. In the rare circumstance 
where both combatants wish to declare themselves exhausted 
in the same round, the hero player must always do so first (after 
which Sauron may choose whether he still wishes to do so).
An exhausted combatant will remain exhausted for the duration 
of the combat.
Dealing Damage and Being 
Defeated
Monsters
For each damage a monster is dealt during combat, one damage 
token is placed on its Monster Reference card. If the number of 
damage tokens on a Monster Reference card equals or exceeds 
the monster’s health during Deal Damage (part f) of the combat 
round, the monster is defeated.
When a monster is defeated, its monster token is removed from 
the game board and placed faceup adjacent to the piles of unused 
monster tokens. 
Minions
For each damage that a minion is dealt, one damage token is 
placed on its corresponding Minion space on the game board. 
Damage tokens are not removed from a minion at the end of 
combat and remain until the minion is healed or defeated.
If the number of damage tokens on a minion equals or exceeds 
its health, it is defeated. When a minion is defeated, all damage 
tokens are removed from its Minion space and its figure is 
removed from the game board. 
Defeated minions do not return to the game, except for the 
“Ringwraiths” who return to Minas Morgul at the start of 
Sauron’s next Action step. 
Dealing Damage to Heroes
For each damage a hero is dealt, the hero must discard one card 
from the top of his life pool (without looking at it) or discard 
one card of his choice from his hand. All cards that are discarded 
for damage are placed (one at a time) facedown into the hero’s 
damage pool. 
If a hero has zero cards in his life pool and zero cards in his 
hand, he is immediately defeated.
Defeated Heroes
When a hero is defeated, he succumbs to his injuries and 
awakens in the nearest Haven (his broken body was found and 
transported back to the Haven by a loyal friend). A defeated hero 
must perform the following steps:
Advance Sauron’s Story:
 The leftmost Sauron story marker 
is advanced one space up the Story Track. If multiple tokens 
are tied for this position, the hero may decide which tied 
token to move. 
Lose Favor or Item card:
 The hero must choose whether 
to discard one favor token from his hero sheet or one of his 
Item cards. If a hero has neither, this step is skipped.
Move to Haven:
 The hero figure is moved to the closest 
Haven (closest by number of locations away). If multiple 
Havens are equally close, then Sauron decides which of the 
tied Havens the hero is moved to. 
Recover: 
The hero shuffles all cards from his rest pool and 
damage pool into his life pool. 
End Turn:
 The hero’s turn immediately ends and play 
proceeds to the next player. 

“I’m glad you’re here with me. Here at the end of all things, Sam.”
– Frodo speaking to Sam at the end of the chapter “Mount Doom” 
The Lord of the Rings, Return of the King
At the end of the Story step, if a story marker has reached the 
Finale space (at end of the Story Track), the game Finale begins. 
 
The Finale and The Shadow Falls 
Spaces of the Story Track
Alternatively, at the end of the Story step, if all three of Sauron’s 
story markers have entered (or passed) the The Shadow Falls 
space, the Finale also begins. 
 
Anatomy of a 
Mission Card
A single Mission card is drawn by each side at the beginning of 
the game and should always be kept secret from the opposing 
side. Throughout the game, each side pursues the requirement on 
its Mission card to secure immediate victory during the Finale. 
The various parts of a Mission card are described below:
Title:
 Each Mission card has a title representing what Sauron 
or the heroes are trying to accomplish thematically.
Graphical Representation: 
On the left side of the card is an 
image matching the card’s mission requirements.
Mission Requirement:
 The text box describes the criteria 
that Sauron or the heroes must fulfill in order to win the 
game (or advance story markers during the Finale – see 
page 34).
Sauron Mission Card Back Hero Mission Card Back 
Winning The Game

Finale
Once the Finale begins, players no longer take normal turns; 
instead the following steps are followed: 
Check for Immediate Victory:
 The dominant side reveals 
its Mission card. If it is fulfilling the criteria on its Mission 
card, the dominant side immediately wins the game. 
Otherwise, players proceed to step 2. 
 
If neither side is dominant, both sides reveal their Mission 
cards. If only one of the sides is able to fulfill the criteria 
on its Mission card, then that side immediately wins 
the game. 
 
If neither side has won the game, then players proceed to 
the next step.
Advance Story Markers:
 If Sauron fulfills his Mission 
card requirement, he advances each of his story markers 
one space on the Story Track. Also, if the heroes fulfill their 
Mission card, they advance their story marker one space on 
the Story Track. 
 
If a story marker is located on the Finale space of the Story 
Track, it does not advance.
Prepare:
 Sauron now removes all prior damage from the 
Ringwraiths’ Minion space on the game board. 
 
Each hero then shuffles all cards from his hand, rest pool, and 
damage pool into his life pool. Each hero then draws a number 
of cards from the top of his life pool equal to his fortitude.
Adjust Difficulty:
 If one team is dominant, the Ringwraiths’ 
attributes are modified as follows:
Sauron Dominant:
 The Ringwraiths gain a number of 
both health and fortitude equal to the number of spaces 
that the hero story marker is away from the Finale space on 
the Story Track.
Heroes Dominant:
 The Ringwraiths’ health and fortitude 
is reduced by the lower of the following two numbers:
The number of spaces that the closest Sauron story 
marker is away from the Finale space on the Story Track.
The cumulative number of spaces needed for Sauron’s 
remaining story marker(s) to advance into The Shadow 
Falls space on the Story Track (see “Finale Example”).
Choose Champion:
 The heroes choose one hero player. 
This player will fight the Ringwraiths in step 6. 
 
Remember that heroes have already drawn cards based upon 
their fortitude and may wish to choose their champion based 
upon which hero thinks he has the strongest hand of cards.
Combat:
 The chosen hero fights the Ringwraiths following 
all standard rules for combat.
Determine Winner: 
If the Ringwraiths were defeated 
during step 6, the heroes immediately win the game. If the 
Ringwraiths were not defeated, Sauron wins the game.
Finale Example
During the Story step, the hero story marker has reached 
the Finale space of the Story Track, triggering the start 
of the Finale. 
 
The heroes are dominant, but are unable to fulfill their 
Mission card’s requirements, and therefore cannot claim 
immediate victory.
Sauron’s markers advance 1 space since he 
is fulfilling 
the requirements of his Mission card.
Since the heroes are dominant, Sauron counts the number 
of spaces his story markers are from the Finale space and 
The Shadow Falls space. His closest story marker is 3 
spaces away from the Finale space of the Story Track.
Sauron’s other story markers are a total of 5 spaces 
away from The Shadow Falls space of the Story Track 
(2 spaces for the yellow story marker plus 3 spaces for 
the red story marker).
Sauron uses the lower of these numbers (3) to give the 
the Ringwraiths –3 health and –3 fortitude during the 
upcoming battle against a hero. 

“Then at last his gaze was held: wall upon wall, battlement upon 
battlement, black, immeasurably strong, mountain of iron, gate of 
steel, tower of adamant, he saw it: Barad-dûr, Fortress of Sauron. 
All hope left him.”
– Frodo seeing Barad-dûr from the Seat of Seeing atop Amon Hen 
Two Player Game
When playing Middle-earth Quest with two players, the following 
rules changes should be followed. 
The hero player receives two turns for every Sauron turn as 
follows: 
After the hero finishes his first Encounter step, resolve a 
special Hero Rally step and a Hero Draw step.
The hero then receives a second turn starting with his 
Rest step. 
At the end of his second Encounter step, Sauron begins his 
turn as normal (starting with the Hero Rally step).
Sauron may play one Shadow card during each of the hero’s 
two turns.
Reshuffling
When any card deck or the monster token pile is depleted, simply 
reshuffle the discarded cards (or tokens) into a new deck/pile.
Component Limitations
If players run out of favor, influence, or damage tokens, add 
suitable replacements to the game (such as coins, beads, etc.).
All other components are strictly limited to the ones provided.
Optional Rules
This section contains optional rules for players who prefer 
particular play styles. Each of these rules may only be used if all 
players agree to it before starting the game.
Advanced Dominance
This optional rule is intended for players who prefer a more 
precise (and more complicated) calculation for which side is 
dominant. 
A side is considered to be dominant if, given the game’s current 
state, it would require fewer Story steps for the side to reach 
the Finale than its opponent. This is calculated by simulating a 
number of Story steps until a side has reached the Finale with 
Sauron’s active Plot cards remaining in play. 
Other Rules
Example: The hero story marker is five spaces away from the Finale 
space. Since the hero story marker moves two spaces per Story step, it 
would require three Story steps for this token to reach the Finale space.
Sauron’s active Plot cards advance his black and red story markers 2 
spaces apiece each Story step. It will require four Story steps for one of 
his markers to reach the Finale space, or all of his markers to reach 
The Shadow Falls space. Therefore, the heroes are dominant (since 
they will reach the Finale in 3 turns versus 4 turns for Sauron).
High Stakes Stage III
This optional rule is intended for players who desire more 
opportunities for a losing side to catch up during stage III. 
Simply make the following rules changes:
If the Heroes are dominant during stage III, Sauron may 
decide which of his three markers is advanced each time he 
defeats a hero (instead of advancing his lowest marker).
If Sauron is dominant during stage III, the heroes advance 
their story marker one space on the Story Track each time they 
defeat a minion.
Strategy Tips
This section is to help new players understand what to focus on 
during their first few turns of the game. Players are not required 
to follow these tips, although they should prove helpful.
Hero Strategies
The darkness rising in the east seems nigh unstoppable. Yet, 
there is still strength in the hearts of men, in the wisdom of the 
elves, in the steel of the dwarves, and in the will of all living 
things to be free under the sun. Holding Sauron at bay will 
require daring, courage, wisdom, and the help of friends and 
allies. All is not yet lost, so read carefully: 
Favor is a hero’s most precious commodity. When given a 
choice of receiving favor or another benefit, the hero should 
usually choose to receive favor. Heroes should not forget the 
“Choose a Dark Path” exploring option. This option can be 
extremely helpful, but should be used cautiously. 
The heroes should not let Sauron keep Plot cards in play, even 
if the heroes seem to be winning. It is much easier for Sauron to 
play Plot cards later in the game, so the heroes should prepare 
for this by making sure Sauron is weakened as much as possible 
from the start. 
Do not fear defeat! Sometimes it is necessary to walk into 
situations that could lead to a hero being defeated. The 
heroes should not be afraid to take a necessary risk if it could 
lead to stopping Sauron’s Plots. Of course, heroes should not 
rest or be defeated too often, as this would lead to Sauron 
winning the game quickly.

Frequently 
Overlooked Rules
Sauron may only play a maximum of one Shadow card during 
each player’s turn, including his own.
Minions may not be healed while in a hero’s location.
Sauron may not place monster tokens in a hero’s location (but 
may move an adjacent monster token onto a hero’s location).
If all three spaces of the Active Plot Track are full, Sauron 
may not play any Plot cards during his Plot step. He may 
instead choose to discard one of his Active Plot cards (in 
order to play one on a future turn).
Quest cards are 
removed from the game after completion.
A hero is only defeated when there are no cards left in his life 
pool and no cards left in his hand.
Heroes may not rest when on Shadow Stronghold locations.
Heroes may not draw Encounter cards when on perilous 
locations.
A hero may move along water (blue) paths as if they were 
normal paths, but these paths become much easier to traverse 
if the hero has a “Boat” Item card.
Sauron Strategies
The dark lord of Mordor is powerful, but alone. His arrogance 
may be his greatest weakness. Here are a few tips to avoid being 
blindsided by the dilapidated Free Peoples of the West and their 
so-called “heroes.”
Sauron should never forget that he wins the game by playing 
Plot cards and keeping them in play. Each turn, Sauron 
should be sure to position himself to play a Plot card on his 
following turn.
When able, Sauron should try to play Plot cards that affect 
locations as far away from the heroes as possible. This will 
make it more difficult for them to discard the Plot card.
It is usually a good idea for Sauron to move minions onto 
locations affected by his active Plots (locations that contain 
plot markers). This strategy also makes it more difficult for 
heroes to discard the corresponding Plot card.
The purpose of minions and monsters are to defend Sauron’s 
Plot cards and slow down the heroes. They are merely tools, 
and their well-being should not distract Sauron from his 
real objective – advancing his story markers by playing and 
retaining powerful Plot cards. 
Sauron should use Shadow cards to keep the heroes on 
their toes. A perfectly timed Shadow card can sometimes 
guarantee victory for Sauron. 
Region Reference
The below image is provided as a reference for the region names 
of the ten different regions on the game board. The region 
names can also be found on the game board, adjacent to the 
related Encounter decks.
Mordor
Brown 
Lands
Gondor
Rohan
Mirkwood
Misty 
Mountains
Grey 
Mountains
Rhudaur
Enedwaith
Eriador

Credits
Game Design and Development: Corey Konieczka 
and Christian T. Petersen
Additional Development: Tim Uren
Editing and Proofreading: Mark O’Connor
Graphic Design: Kevin Childress, Andrew Navaro, 
Brian Schomburg, and WiL Springer
Art Direction: Zoë Robinson
Cover Art: Tomasz Jedruszek
Map Art and Character Design: Tim Arney-O’Neil
Map Location Art: Trevor Cook
Interior Art: Ryan Barger, Anna Christenson, Daarken, John 
Gravato, John Howe, and Sedone Thonvilay
Production Manager: Gabe Laulunen
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
License Manager (Sophisticated Games): Robert Hyde
Playtest Coordinators: Robert A. Kouba and Mike Zebrowski
Playtesters: William Baldwin, Jaffer Batica, Kevin Beckey, 
Bob Bednar, Carolina Blanken, Pieter Blanken, Bryan 
Bornmueller, Kevin Childress, Kåre W. Christensen, Flannery 
Clark, Emile de Maat, Jean9 Duncan, Darci Fosnaugh, Rob 
Fosnaugh, J.R. Godwin, John Goodenough, Eric Hanson, 
Peter Hawthorne, Stephen Horvath, Tara King, Thomas 
Laursen, Erik Lind, Jay Little, Richard Nauertz, Andrew 
Navaro, Jacob Overbo, Gilbert D. Ponsness, Mike Ring, 
Paul Schulzetenberg, Arjan Snippe, Erik Snippe, Jeremy 
Stomberg, Seth Sweep, Jeff Tidball, Steen Moldrup Thomsen, 
Trent Urness, James Vaelker, Wilco van de Camp, Jason 
Walden, Matthew Xavier, Tom Zebro, and Jamie Zephyr
Blind Playtesters: “The Lurkers in the Valley”– Ed Browne, 
Meric England, Loren Overby, Jeffrey Poff, Lisa Poff, Vern Wester.
Christian would like to thank Professor Tolkien for boundless 
inspiration, Robert Hyde for his amazing patience with him and 
the marathon MEQ project both, and Corey K. for carrying 
this game to an epic conclusion, and making this game so much 
better than what he could have accomplished alone.
Corey would also like to specially thank all of our playtesters, 
particularly all outside groups who spent countless hours cutting 
and pasting, and Eric Hanson and Jean9 Duncan who donated 
many late nights to help iron out the bugs.
© 2009 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc., all rights reserved. No part 
of this product may be reproduced without specific permission. Middle-
earth Quest, Middle-earth, The Watcher logo, The Lord of the 
Rings, and characters, events, items, and places therein are registered 
trademarks of the Saul Zaentz Company d/b/a Tolkien Enterprises, 
and are used under license by Sophisticated Games Ltd and their 
licensees. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County Road 
B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA, and can be reached 
by telephone at 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your 
records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to small parts. 
Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. 
 Visit Us on the Web at 
www.FantasyFlightGames.com

Index
Action Step: pages 15–19
Action Token: page 15
Action Track Anatomy: page 16
Affected Locations on Event Cards: page 13
Affected Locations on Plot Cards: page 14
Agility: page 21
Ambush Step: page 22
Attributes of Heroes: pages 20–21
Attributes of Monsters: page 27
Cancel: page 29
Card Pools: page 21
Character Tokens: page 24
Component List: page 3
Combat: pages 27–32
Combat, Steps of: pages 28–29
Combat Example: pages 30–31
Combat Keywords: page 29
Commanding Monsters and Minions: pages 18–19
Component Overview: pages 4–6
Consulting Characters: page 24
Corruption Cards: pages 20, 26 
Current Stage: pages 11–12
Damage, Dealing: page 32
Damage Pool: page 21
Defeated Heroes, Monsters, and Minions: page 32
Dominance, Determining: page 14
Drawing Shadow Cards and Plot Cards: pages 17–18
Encounter Card Anatomy: page 25
Encounter Step: pages 24–25
Event Card Anatomy: page 15
Event Step: page 14
Exhausted Combatants: page 32
Exploring: page 24
Extension, Influence in: pages 16–17 
Favor Tokens: page 24
Finale: pages 33–34
Fortitude, Heroes: page 20
Fortitude, Monster: page 27
Game Board Anatomy: page 6
Game Turns: page 10 
Havens: page 11
Healing Heroes: page 20
Healing Minions: page 18
Hero and Skill Cards Anatomy: page 28
Hero Draw Step: page 19
Hero Sheets, Breakdown: pages 20–21
Hero Turn in Detail: pages 20–25
Hero Turn Overview: page 10
Important Terms: page 11
Influence, Placing: pages 16–17
Influence Strength: page 16
Item Cards: page 26
Level Tokens: page 26
Life Pool: page 21
Minions: pages 12, 18
Mission Card Anatomy: page 33
Monster Combat Cards: page 28
Monster Reference Cards: page 27
Monster Tokens: page 19
Moving, Heroes: pages 22–23
Moving Monsters and Minions: page 18
Movement Icons: page 22
Paths, Movement: pages 6, 22
Peril Cards: page 23
Perilous Locations: pages 22–23
Character Tokens: page 24
Place Influence Action: pages 15–17
Placing Monster Tokens: page 18
Plot Cards: page 13
Plot Step: page 13
Quests Cards: page 25
Rally Step: page 11
Region: page 11
Rest Pool: page 21
Rest Step: page 20
Sauron Turn Overview: page 10
Sauron Turn Details: pages 11–19
Setup: page 8
Shadow Cards Anatomy: page 18
Shadow Pool: page 16
Shadow Strongholds: page 11
Skill Cards: page 26
Stages of the Game: page 12
Story Step: page 12
Story Track: page 12
Strength, Heroes: page 20
Strength, Monsters: page 27
Two Player Game: page 35
Travel Step: pages 22–23
Training: page 26
Winning the Game: pages 33–34
Wisdom, Heroes: page 21
Wisdom, Monsters and Minions: page 27
Within X Spaces: page 11

All about the hills, the hosts of Mordor raged. The Captains of the West 
were foundering in a gathering sea. The sun gleamed red, and under the 
wings of the Ringwraiths the shadows of death fell dark upon the earth.
The Dark Lord Sauron has returned and his armies have mustered for 
their final assault on the Free Peoples of Middle-Earth. The nations of 
the Free Peoples are scattered and unprepared…but hope yet remains. 
Marshall your armies and stand ready to defend your strongholds. Powerful Captains such as 
Aragorn and Gandalf are at your disposal - but are they best used in the field, or as guides and 
escorts for Frodo and the One Ring? 
This is the final clash of the Third Age. This is the War of the Ring! An epic strategy wargame 
for 2-4 players.
The time has come for the final confrontation in Middle Earth. 
Only one side can win!
An intense, 30-minute game of bluffing, strategy, and guts, Lord 
of the Rings: the Confrontation is one of acclaimed designer 
Reiner Knizia’s most celebrated games. Take command of the 
Fellowship of the Ring and use strength, courage, and guile to see 
Frodo safely to Mt. Doom and the ring destroyed, or play as 
Saruon and do everything in your dark power to reclaim your 
Ring and destroy the Shire… This deluxe edition 
features improved artwork and a brand-
new alternate game. For 2 players.
TM
TM

Quick Reference
Mission Card Reference
This section lists all of the Mission cards and can be used to help 
players prepare for the Finale.
Sauron Mission Cards
His Dark Throne: 
Sauron wins if there are 3 active Plot 
cards in play.
In Darkness Bind Them: 
Sauron wins if his yellow story 
marker has advanced to stage III of the Story Track.
To Rule Them All: 
Sauron wins if his red story marker has 
advanced to stage III of the Story Track.
Where the Shadows Lie: 
Sauron wins if his black story 
marker has advanced to stage III of the Story Track.
To Find Them All: 
Sauron wins if he has either the 
Ringwraiths or 6 influence on the Shire.
Hero Mission Cards
Noble Blood: 
The heroes win if they collectively have 1 or 
less Corruption cards.
Against The Shadow:
 The heroes win if there are no more 
than 2 monster tokens in play.
Isildur’s Secret:
 The heroes win if they collectively have at 
least 5 favor.
Minas Morgul Kept at Bay:
 The heroes win if there are 2 or 
less minions in play. 
The Spear of the West:
 The heroes win if each hero has 
completed both his Starting and Advanced quest.
Combat Steps
Sauron Setup
Preparation (draw Combat cards)
Rounds of Combat
Choose Cards
Reveal Cards
Calculate Strength 
Previous Round Abilities
Current Round Abilities 
Deal Damage
Resolution
Discard Cards 
Discard Monster Token
Undefeated Monster or Minion
sauron turn
Hero Rally Step:
 Discard all influence tokens from each 
hero’s location.
Story Step:
 Advance the hero story marker two spaces up the 
Story Track and Sauron’s story markers according to his active 
Plot cards. Skip this step on the first turn of the game. 
Plot Step: 
Sauron may play a single Plot card from his hand 
or discard an active Plot card. Skip this step on the first 
turn of the game.
Event Step:
 Sauron draws three cards from the top of the 
current stage’s Event deck. He then resolves one of them 
(per the rules found on page 14). If neither team is dominant, 
Sauron instead draws one card and resolves it. 
Action Step:
 Sauron may take two actions (or three actions if 
playing a four player game). 
Hero Draw Step:
 Each hero may draw cards from his life 
pool equal to his fortitude. 
Hero turn
Rest Step: 
If there are no monster tokens or minions in the 
hero’s location, and he is not in a Shadow Stronghold, he may 
rest. If the hero is in a Haven, he may heal.
Ambush Step: 
Sauron may choose and attack with one 
monster or minion in the hero’s location. 
Travel Step:
 During this step, the hero is able to travel to an 
adjacent location on the game board, fight enemies, resolve 
perilous locations, and explore as follows: A hero may 
perform this step as many times as his hand of Hero 
cards allows.
Move: 
The hero may move to an adjacent location by 
discarding the required Hero card(s) from his hand.
Combat or Peril: 
Sauron chooses whether the hero will fight 
a monster/minion in his location or resolve a Peril card (if 
he is in a perilous location. 
Explore:
 The hero may explore in his current location. 
This includes retrieving favor, consulting with characters, 
completing quests, and more. 
Encounter Step:
 After he has finished moving, if the hero 
is not in a perilous location, he draws three cards from his 
location’s Encounter deck and resolves the lowest numbered 
card that matches his location.
Quick Index
Combat, Steps of: pages 28–29 
Finale: pages 33–34
Full Index: page 38 
Frequently Overlooked Rules: page 36
Important Terms: page 11
Region Reference: page 36
Setup: page 8
Two Player Game: page 35