In Minecraft: Builders & Biomes, players explore the Overworld, mine blocks, and build spectacular structures. 
Plan your builds carefully and defeat dangerous mobs to win!
For 2-4 players Ages 10+
Setup
Shuffle the 64 building 
and mob tiles and divide 
them into 16 ­face-down stacks of 
four tiles each. Lay them out in 
a 4 by 4 grid, with enough space 
between the rows for your game 
pieces to move between them.
“Shuffle the 16 colorless 
weapon tokens and place 
one, face down, at the ends of 
each column and row to form a 
six by six grid. (Leave the corners 
empty.)“
Place the block base next to the grid in easy 
reach of all players. Assemble the support 
structure and place it on the block base. Fill it with the 
64 blocks (16 wood, 14 sand, 12 stone, 10 obsidian, 
and 12 emerald) in random order. Gently shake until 
the blocks form a big cube. Then remove the support 
structure by lifting it up on its flaps.
Each player chooses a color (red, blue, yellow, 
or green) and takes the player board and game 
materials of the same color. Game materials include 
one game piece base, one experience counter, and 
five colored weapon tokens (one stone sword, one 
wooden sword, and three poisonous potatoes).
 Place your experience counter on space 0 of the 
experience point track that runs along the edge of your 
player board.
 Shuffle your 5 weapon tokens and put them in a 
face-down pile.
 Choose a player skin (character appearance) 
and push it into your game piece base. This is your 
­character. Place it on the central crossing of the card 
grid.
Hint: You can customize your characters by painting the 4 
blank skins, or by putting your own stickers!
Place one set of the overview cards (Turn 
Actions, Scoring A, Scoring B, Scoring 
C) between players 1 and 2 and the other set 
between players 3 and 4.
EN

The player who most recently found a diamond in 
Minecraft is the starting player. When in doubt, the 
	 	
	
youngest player begins.
During your turn you must choose and perform two different 
actions. You cannot perform the same action twice. Once you 
have taken your actions, play proceeds to the left. 
During the game there are three scoring rounds. The player 
with the most experience points after the third scoring round is 
the winner.
LIST OF ACTIONS 
Collect blocks
Take two blocks from the big cube. Blocks (materials) can 
only be collected if their top side plus at least 2 more sides 
are exposed. As long as these conditions are met, you are free 
to choose any block from any layer, and from any side of the 
big cube. Add the blocks to your personal supply next to your 
player board.
	
 	 The green emerald blocks are wildcards. Use them 
instead of other blocks when building a structure (see 
below).
	
 	 Feel free to rotate the block base. This allows you to look 
at the big cube from all sides and find the blocks you 
need for your structures.
Explore the Overworld
First, move your character zero, one, or two spaces. “Spaces” 
are the crossing points in the grid of card stacks and weapon 
tokens. Never place your character on a card or token.
Next, reveal the top cards of the four corner stacks 
around your position. If some of them have already 
been turned face up, leave them revealed.
	
 	 The same crossing can be occupied by 
	 	
multiple characters.
	
 	 During the course of the game, card stacks might be fully 
	 	
depleted or weapon tokens collected. You still move 
	 	
your character along the path between stacks, even if 
	 	
those stacks are empty.
Build
To build a structure, your character must be next to the 
corresponding building card on the grid. The blocks needed 
to build a structure are shown in the bottom right corner of the 
card. You must possess the necessary materials to build that 
structure. Return the blocks from your personal supply to the 
game box.
A green emerald block can be used to replace any other block. 
Take the building card from the grid and place it on any space 
on your player board.
Some structures need a lot of blocks, and have this icon in the 
top right corner of the card: 
 Whenever you build such a 
structure you immediately gain that many experience points. 
Move your experience counter that many spaces on your 
experience point track.
	
 	 Buildings can be built in any biome (= environment 
	 	
type). For example, you don’t have to place a forest 
	 	
building on a forest space. On the contrary, to gain more 
	 	
experience points during scoring, you may want to place 
	 	
a structure next to spaces and/or cards that share a 
	 	
characteristic (e.g. the same biome). More information 
	 	
can be found in the section “Scoring” below.
	
 	 You may build over existing structures. Simply place the 
new structure over a building card you no longer need.
How to play the game

Fight a mob
Not every card in the grid is a building — some 
of them are dangerous mobs (monsters)! If your 
character is next to a revealed mob card, you can attempt to 
defeat it. To fight a mob, shuffle your face-down pile of weapon 
tokens and reveal 3 tokens. Count the number of revealed 
hearts and compare the sum to the number of hearts on the 
mob card. Poisonous potatoes have no hearts and count as 
blanks.
	
 	 If you revealed at least as many hearts as shown on the 
mob card, you defeat the mob. Remove the mob card 
from the grid and place it next to your player board. 
You immediately gain the number of experience points 
printed next to the 
.
	
 	 If you revealed a lower number of hearts, the mob stays 
where it is.
After the fight, shuffle your revealed weapon tokens back into 
your pile. You get to keep them.
Put defeated mobs face-down next to your player board. 
There are two kinds of mobs: 
A mob card with this icon can be traded in to gain 
1 additional action during one of your turns. To do 
this, when it’s your turn, execute your 2 different 
actions as usual. Then return as many mob cards with this icon 
as you like from your personal supply back into the game box. 
For each returned mob card, you may execute an additional 
action of your choice this turn. As opposed to a normal turn, 
you are permitted to execute an action that you have already 
executed earlier in the same turn.
Mob cards with these kind of icons are 
kept until the end of the game, when 
they will gain you additional experience 
points for all spaces with matching characteristics on your 
player board. For example, the mob with these icons will 
gain you 2 experience points for each forest. More 
information can be found in the section “Scoring” 
below.
Collect a weapon
To collect a weapon token, your character must be 
next to it. Shuffle it into your pile of weapon tokens.
Note:
	
 	 You may look at your weapon tokens at any time, 
such as when checking to see if you have a chance of 
vanquishing a mob. Make sure to shuffle your pile after 
looking at the tokens.
Weapons with special abilities:
Bow: During a fight, whenever you reveal 
a bow, you may immediately reveal 1 
additional weapon token. If you own more 
than one bow, you have a chance to reveal 4, 
5, or even 6 tokens during a fight!
Golden hoe: During a fight, whenever you 
reveal a golden hoe, you immediately gain 
2 experience points.
Stone pickaxe: During a fight, whenever you 
reveal a stone pickaxe, you may immediately 
collect 1 block from the big cube. You still 
have to follow the rules for “collecting blocks” 
(see action 1 above).
TNT: During a fight, after revealing your 
weapons, if you revealed a TNT token, you can 
choose to detonate it. If you do, count the 5 
hearts on the TNT. Detonated TNT is removed 
from the game (put it back into the box). 
Otherwise, ignore the hearts. You get to keep 
the TNT.

When does the scoring happen?
The first scoring round (A: Biomes) happens when any 
player completely mines the first layer of blocks of the 
big cube. It doesn’t matter if any blocks from deeper layers 
have been collected. After collecting the final block of the first 
layer, that player completes their turn as usual. Scoring starts 
after they have finished executing their actions.
The second scoring round (B: Materials) happens 
when any player completely mines the second layer of 
blocks of the big cube.
The third scoring round (C: Type) happens when any 
player completely mines the third layer of blocks of the 
big cube. Then the game ends, even if there are still blocks left 
in the bottom layer of the big cube.
	
 	 If you own any mob cards that grant you additional 
	 	
actions, feel free to use them in the same turn in which 
	 	
you triggered a scoring round. Scoring starts only after 
	 	
you have executed all your actions and finished 
	 	
your turn.
	
 	 It is possible to deplete multiple layers during the same 
	 	
turn, by collecting multiple blocks (e.g. by revealing the 
	 	
stone pickaxe during a mob fight, or by trading in a mob 
	 	
card for an additional action). In that case, after finishing 
	 	
your turn, all triggered scoring rounds happen one by 
	 	
one in the usual order (A 
 B 
 C).
How does scoring work?
The player who just finished their turn goes first. Choose 
exactly one out of the four characteristics on the current 
scoring card to gain experience points in that characteristic.
	
In the first scoring round (A: Biomes), you 
choose exactly one biome: forest, desert, 
mountains, or snowy tundra.
On your player board, identify the largest group of 
connected spaces that share this characteristic. For 
each space in this group, you gain the number of experience 
points printed next to that characteristic on the scoring card.
	
 	 Diagonal spaces do not count as connected.
	
 	 For the first scoring round (A: Biomes), in addition 
	 	
to the biomes on your building cards, also count 
	 	
biomes printed on your player board (if visible).
	
 	 You may also choose a single-space group. For example, 
	 	
you could gain 6 experience points for a single snowy 
	 	
tundra space on your player board.
	
 	 Each building card lists its characteristics as icons in 
its left margin: The top icon shows the biome (scoring A), 
followed by material in the middle (scoring B) and type on 
the bottom (scoring C).
Scoring round A example: 
You choose desert, since that forms the largest biome on your player 
board. It consists of 4 spaces. The desert in the top right corner of 
your player board is diagonally adjacent to the rest of your desert 
spaces. It doesn‘t count as part of the continuous group.
For each space, you gain 4 experience points (see scoring card). In 
total, you gain 4 x 4 = 16 experience points.
Scoring

When you‘re done calculating your experience points, 
add them to your existing points on the experience 
point track on your player board by moving your 
experience counter that many spaces forward.
Then the next player in turn order scores a biome of their 
choice. Once every player has scored, return the scoring card 
to the box. For the next scoring, you will need the next scoring 
card (B: Materials).
After scoring, continue playing in turn order. The player sitting 
next to the one who triggered the scoring goes next. 
Note: During scoring, do not remove any structures you built, or 
the blocks in your supply. You get to keep them! Start planning for 
the next scoring round, and build structures accordingly!
For the second scoring round (B: Materials) you either 
choose wood, sand, stone, or obsidian. You score the 
biggest continuous group of structures matching that material 
(see the middle icon on the building cards). The biomes no 
longer matter, ignore them.
Scoring round B example: 
You choose wood, since the wooden structures form the largest 
continuous group on your player board. It consists of 5 spaces. 
For each space, you gain 3 experience points (see scoring card). In 
total, you gain 5 x 3 = 15 experience points.
The third scoring (C: Type) follows the same 
rules. Select the largest continuous group of 
structures of a particular type: decoration, dwelling, 
animal house, or bridge.
Scoring round C example: 
The third scoring round happened so fast that you didn’t have 
a chance to build more structures. Your biggest groups are two 
dwellings or two animal houses. The animal houses are more 
valuable (see scoring card), so you select that group and gain 2 x 5 
= 10 experience points.

End of the Game
The game ends after the third scoring round. Now, 
it’s time to score each mob in your collection with 
icons of the following type: 
You gain that many experience points for each space on your 
player board with that characteristic.
Important: As opposed to the scoring rounds A, B, and C, the 
mob cards count all spaces of that characteristic. The spaces 
don’t have to be connected.
After each player has scored their mobs, compare your 
experience points. The player with the most experience points 
is the winner. If there is a tie, the player with the most blocks in 
their supply wins the game. If there is still a tie, the tied players 
all win.
Mob scoring example: 
During the game you defeated the following 4 mobs:
You gain 2 experience points for each forest, for 
a total of 4.
You gain 3 experience points for your 1 obsidian 
structure, a total of 3.
You gain 3 experience points for your 2 animal 
houses, a total of 6.
You gain no experience points because you don’t 
have a sand structure.
In total, you gain 
4 + 3 + 6 = 13 additional 
experience points at the 
end of the game.
Variant for beginners
If you are playing for the first time, or with kids, 
there is a great way to simplify the three scoring 
rounds: Instead of counting the largest continuous group, just 
count all spaces matching that criteria on your player board. 
That means less planning ahead, since you can place the 
building cards on any space of your player board.
Hint: This variant can be combined with the normal game. For 
example, allow kids to score by the simplified rules while grown-
ups score by the normal rules.
Credits
Game Design: Ulrich Blum
Editing: Daniel Greiner
Creative direction: Jens Bergensten
Business development: Patrick Geuder, Natalie Kim, Emily Clock
Production: Patrick Liu, Marc Watson
Art production: Nikoo Jorjani, Nicolette Suraga
Art direction: Ninni Landin, Martin Johansson
Product design: Filip Thoms
Pixel art: Martin Wörister
Building construction: BlockWorksMC Ltd.
Art assembly: Fiore GmbH
Playtest coordination: Marc Watson, John Thornton
Many thanks to all the play testers and the staff of 
Mojang Studios and Microsoft who helped create this game.
© 2019 
Ravensburger Verlag GmbH
Postfach 2460 · D-88194 Ravensburg
Distr. CH: Carlit+Ravensburger AG
Grundstr. 9 · CH-5436 Würenlos
www.ravensburger.com
©2019 Mojang AB and Mojang Synergies AB. MINECRAFT 
and MOJANG are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of Mojang Synergies AB