Mississippi Queen 
 
Published by Goldsieber 
Designed by Walter Hodel 
For 3-5 players aged 10 and up 
 
Overview 
 
Vie with other paddle-wheel captains and their "queens" for the title of Mississippi 
Queen, the fastest paddle-wheeler on Big Muddy. Since a significant portion of a 
paddle-wheeler’s revenue comes from passengers, the competition is more than 
just a race. To win, a captain must be the first to dock at the finish AND make two 
passenger stops along the way. 
 
What’s in the Box 
 
 
12 River Tiles 
 
1 Landing Platform 
 
5 Paddle-Wheelers 
 
10 Paddle Wheels 
 
16 Passengers 
 
1 Direction die 
 
1 Measuring Stick 
 
1 Sticker Sheet 
 
1 Rule Book 
 
Introduction 
 
Mississippi Queen may be played in two ways. The introductory game is just a race 
with no stops for passengers. Playing it once will familiarize you with the 
mechanics of movement on the river. This simpler game may also be played with 
younger children wanting to experience the fun of river racing. 
 
Once you have learned to move your paddle-wheelers, you may want to add the 
challenge and fun of picking up passengers along the route. 
 
Introductory Game 
 
• Before starting your first game, stick the numbered strips to 
 
the wheels, black strips on black wheels, red on red. There 
 
are extra sets; only six sets are needed to complete your 
 
preparations. 
 
• Each player receives a paddle -wheeler and two wheels, one red 

 
and one black. The red wheel is the speed wheel. Put it in the 
 
left-hand compartment with the number 1 showing on top. The 
 
black wheel is the coal wheel. Put it in the right-hand 
 
compartment with the number 6 showing on top. 
 
• Place the Starting River tile on the table (it features 
 
numbered spaces). Sort out three extra tiles, place them as 
 
a face-down pile, and return the rest to the box. Place the 
 
landing platform face-up beneath the pile of three river 
 
tiles. Place the direction die nearby. 
 
• The passengers and the measuring stick will not be needed in 
 
this version. 
 
Start the Race 
 
Turn over the top river tile and join it to the start tile in the middle, straight ahead 
position. The youngest player starts. He places his paddle-wheeler on the starting 
space number 1. The others follow in clockwise order, taking spaces 2, 3, etc. The 
paddle-wheelers are placed with the bows facing the river. Now the race can begin. 
 
The player with a paddle-wheeler on space 1 starts, others following in clockwise 
order. On each player’s turn, he has two actions: 
 
• Change the paddle-wheeler’s speed if desired. 
 
• Move the paddle-wheeler the distance indicated 
 
on the red speed wheel. 
 
The speed can remain unchanged or change up or down by one for no cost, except 
that it cannot be raised above 6 or be lowered below 1. The speed may be 
changed by more than one, but it costs one coal for each unit change above or 
below one. 
 
For example, Jill’s ship is traveling at a speed of 6 with 4 coal left and she wants to 
be going 3 on this turn. Before moving, she changes the red wheel from 6 to 3 and 
the black from 4 to 2 to represent the 2 coal she need to slow down by 2 more than 
the 1 she could for no cost. Jack’s ship is traveling at 2 with all 6 coal left. As he 
wants to be going 4 this turn, he changes the red wheel to 4 and the black to 5. 
 
When the last coal point is used, remove the black wheel and return it to the box. If 
an extra coal point is needed later, then that player drops out of the game and his 
paddle-wheeler is removed from the river. In this short introductory game this will 
rarely happen. 
 
Moving and Turning 

 
The red speed wheel indicates how many spaces you can move on your turn. That 
is, with a 4 showing on top of the wheel, you move four spaces. For each 
movement point, you must move one space in the direction of the bow of the ship. 
Reversing, moving stern first, is not allowed. 
 
Paddle-wheelers normally move over unoccupied water spaces. They can push 
other ships (see "pushing opponents' paddle-wheelers"), but they cannot move 
onto land. If the movement of a paddle-wheeler takes it onto land, it had run 
aground and is out of the race. A paddle-wheeler may also not move off a tile. 
 
On each turn, a paddle-wheeler can make one turn of 60 degrees in either 
direction for no cost. Each additional 60 degree turn costs one coal point. The 
player controlling the paddle-wheeler moves the coal wheel one number down for 
each additional turn. Paddle-wheelers may be turned before during or after 
movement. 
 
Should a paddle-wheeler be about to run aground, it must slow down or change 
direction. 
 
Example: (see bottom of page 4 of the German rules) - 
 
the paddle-wheeler must move 3 spaces - the necessary 
 
turning costs the player 2 coal points. 
 
Laying Out the River 
 
The first player to reach the river tile furthest downstream, lays the next tile. To do 
so, he throws the die and lays the new tile on to the left, middle, or right cusp of the 
tile he has just reached. He takes the next tile from the stock and fits it accordingly. 
All this happens after he has completed the move that brings him to his current tile. 
In the example on page 5 of the German rules, the player moves from tile A to new 
tile B. When he has finished moving, he throws the die, which directs him to fit the 
next tile so that the river bends to the left. 
 
At the beginning of the race, a second tile is joined to the start tile before the first 
player moves. River tiles cannot be laid so as to form a continuous loop. If this is 
about to happen, throw the die again. As soon as a river tile has been fully vacated, 
it can be removed from the table and returned to the box; it will not be used again in 
the game. 
 
Pushing Opponent's Paddle-wheelers 
 
Normally movement is across empty spaces. A paddle-wheeler may push an 
opponent’s ship, however. Each push costs the pushing paddle-wheeler one 
movement space. This point is used to 
 
move an opponent's paddle-wheeler one space. The pushing paddle-wheeler 
moves one space less than the number showing on his speed wheel for each 
push. Thus, if a player pus hes two paddle-wheelers, he moves two spaces less 
than his current speed. If a player has enough movement points to reach a space 
occupied by an opponent, but no spare points for pushing him out of the way, he 
cannot move onto this space, and must move somewhere else instead. 
 
The pushing player chooses which space the pushed paddle-wheeler is pushed 

to. However, a paddle-wheeler cannot be pushed onto an island or off the tile. 
Similarly, spaces over which the pushing player has just moved this turn, including 
the one from which he 
 
pushed the opponent, are taboo. If there is nowhere for the opponent to be pushed 
to, he may not pushed. 
 
The player whose paddle-wheeler was pushed chooses the direction his 
paddle-wheeler points as soon as the pushing player chooses the space it is 
pushed to. 
 
Example: (see picture on page 6 of the German rules) - 
 
Red must move 4 spaces. He bumps into beige (1 point), 
 
pushes beige aside (1 point), and then moves 2 more 
 
spaces ahead (2 points). The beige player now points 
 
his paddle-wheeler in any direction. He could also have 
 
been pushed to either of the spaces marked with white 
 
crosses. 
 
If a paddle-wheeler is pushed onto an unexplored tile, the procedure for extending 
the river is followed as previously described with the pushed player rolling the die 
and placing the tile as the die directs. 
 
Finishing the Race 
 
The player who places the last river tile, rolls the die again to determine the 
location of the landing platform. As shown in the diagram on page 7, there are 
three hexes which are points of entry to this platform. The first player to reach one 
of these entry points wins. Unused movement points are wasted. If there is an 
island occupying an entry space, then there will be only two entry spaces. The 
winning paddle-wheeler is placed on the 
 
platform tile in position number 1. The other players continue 
 
racing to determine second place and so on. 
 
The Passenger Game 
 
Having played the introductory game once, you will know how to move the 
paddle-wheelers. The passenger game requires that each paddle-wheeler pick up 
two passengers, and finish the race at the landing platform to win. In this race, the 
lead paddle-wheeler moves first each turn rather than movement being in 
clockwise order. All rules described in the introductory game are used with the 
following additions or changes. 
 
 
Preparations 
 
• All river tiles are used. 
 

• Place the measuring stick nearby. 
 
• Set out the paddle-wheelers and the first river tile as 
 
before. 
 
• Put the passengers near the tile stack. 
 
• With 3 players, use 8 passengers; with 4 players, use 12 
 
passengers; and with 5 players, use 16 passengers. Put 
 
unused passengers in the box. 
 
Placing Passengers at Paddle-wheeler Stations 
 
 
When a river tile that contains an island with a station (a building with a platform), 
place passengers on that station. This includes the tile placed at the start of the 
game. The number of passengers placed at each station depends on the number 
of players: 
 
• With 3 players, 1 passenger is placed per station 
 
• With 4 players, 1 passenger is placed on red stations, 
 
and 2 are placed on brown stations 
 
• With 5 players, 2 passenger are placed per station 
 
Collecting Passengers 
 
To collect a passenger, a paddle-wheeler must move to the boarding platform 
shown extending from an island at a speed of 1 (passengers will not load onto a 
fast-moving paddle-wheeler). The player may collect one passenger per stop (even 
if two are there). When a player has already collected 2 passengers, he can collect 
no more. No player may collect 2 passengers from the same island. If there are no 
passengers left when a paddle-wheeler lands, none can be picked-up. 
 
Tip: there will be more than enough passengers for each player, so you need not 
rush to the first island sighted. However, you should plan carefully as you cannot 
win without picking up 2 passengers. 
 
Example: (see diagram on page 9 of the German rules) - 
 
Red wants to collect a passenger. He slows to speed 2 
 
and moves two spaces. He then slows again to speed 1 
 
and moves to the boarding platform. 
 
If a player is pushed to a boarding platform, and he is displaying the correct speed 
of one, he may collect a passenger, unless of course he has already collected one 
from this same station. 
 
Once every player has vacated a tile, it is removed and any passengers remaining 

on it are returned to the box. 
 
Order of Movement 
 
Paddle-wheelers move in position order - the furthest ahead goes first, the 
paddle-wheeler in second goes next and so on. If 2 paddle-wheelers are tied for a 
position, the one displaying the greater speed moves first. If still tied, the one with 
the greater coal reserves goes first. If they are still tied, the paddle-wheeler furthest 
to the right of the river moves first. 
 
Use the measuring stick if a quick glance doesn't tell you relative positions. As 
shown in the diagram on page 10, place the stick in clear water ahead of the 
paddle-wheelers, and move it backwards towards the paddle-wheelers. The first 
paddle-wheeler reached, whatever direction it is facing, will be the one to move 
first. 
 
Example: (see diagram on page 11 of the German rules) - 
 
the order of movement is gray, beige, (numbers tied with 
 
red, but more to the right), red, green, brown. 
 
Ending the Race 
 
The first paddle-wheeler to reach the landing platform with two passengers wins. 
As when collecting passengers, the paddle-wheeler must be traveling at a speed 
of one. Paddle-wheelers are moved to the platform tile and are placed in the 
correct podium positions as they finish.