The year is 1888. Automated probes sent to the Red Planet have 
transmitted definitive evidence of priceless resources beneath the 
planet’s surface. Among these resources are two new kinds of ore: 
celerium and sylvanite. Celerium has the capability to become a 
combustible energy source that is one thousand times more powerful 
than the modern steam engine, thus paving the way for exploring 
the rest of the solar system. Sylvanite, a material more dense than 
anything found on Earth, holds untapped potential of its own.
The probes also found ice on the planet’s surface, which could be used 
to create an atmosphere, allowing the planet to be fully colonized. You 
are the leader of a mining corporation, and you must control the ore 
deposits hidden beneath the Red Planet’s soil in order to exploit these 
new resources. Your journey cannot wait any longer...to Mars!
Game Overview
In Mission: Red Planet, two to six players assume the 
roles of Mars-bound mining corporations in a Victorian 
steampunk era. Players send astronauts to explore various 
zones of Mars, compete for majority in their zone, and mine 
the planet’s valuable resources.
Object of the Game
Players can gain points in several ways, such as by mining 
resources and completing mission cards. At the end of the 
game, the player with the most points wins.
Components
1 Game Board of Mars
1 Launchpad
consists of 3–6 dock pieces
consists of 4 pieces
86 Point Tokens
40 Ice
23 Celerium
23 Sylvanite
36 Ship Cards
30 Event Cards
13 Missions
X
MISSION
If you have at least 
1 astronaut in 1/2/3/4 
of the red zones, 
gain 1/2/4/7 points.
Eastern Influence
13 Discoveries
Native Resistance
Each player removes 
1 of his astronauts 
from this zone and 
places it on the Lost in 
Space Memorial.
4 Actions
Play this card at 
the end of the third 
production phase.
You receive 2 ice 
point tokens.
Blocks of Ice
1 Global 
Mission Card
If you have the most 
ice point tokens, 
gain 9 points.
In case of a tie, 
the tied players evenly 
divide the 9 points, 
rounded down. 
Ice Monopoly
GLOBAL MISSION
54 Character Cards
Place 1 astronaut in 
a docked ship AND 
make up to 3 moves 
on Mars with your 
astronauts.
EXPLORER
9 for each color
 Assembling the Round Tracker
Assemble the round tracker as shown in the image below.
1 Lost in Space 
Memorial
1 Moon of 
Phobos
20 Destination Tokens
2 for each zone
1 Round Tracker
11 Resource Tokens
3 Sylvanite
5 Ice
3 Celerium
132 Plastic Astronauts
22 for each color

Setup
Prepare Game Board: Connect the four pieces 
of Mars and place the assembled planet in the 
center of the play area. Place Phobos and the Lost 
in Space Memorial near Mars.
Construct Launchpad: Connect dock pieces so that there 
are a number of docks equal to the number of players. Use 
the end cap docks for the left-most and right-most docks of 
the launchpad.
Prepare Supply: Place the destination tokens within reach 
of all players, and sort the point tokens into piles by type. 
Place the “Ice Monopoly” global mission card faceup near 
the supply. 
Prepare Ships: Shuffle the ship cards to create the ship deck 
and place it near the launchpad. Draw a number of ship 
cards equal to the number of players in the game and place 
them faceup, one ship at each dock of the launchpad.
If a drawn ship has an unknown destination, replace it with a 
new card, shuffling the unknown destination ship back into 
the ship deck. If a Phobos-bound ship has not been drawn, 
place a Phobos destination token on the ship at the right-
most dock.
Choose Colors: Each player chooses one color to use for 
this game. He gathers the nine character cards and all of the 
plastic astronauts of that color. His starting hand of cards 
contains all nine of his character cards.
Place Starting Astronauts: Take one astronaut from each 
player and randomly place one on each ship at the launchpad. 
The player whose astronaut is on the left-most dock is the 
first player and takes the round tracker, setting it to “1.”
7.	
Place Resources: Randomly place one resource token 
facedown in each zone of Mars and on Phobos. There will 
be one resource token remaining, which is placed facedown 
near the supply.
8.	
Deal Starting Mission: Shuffle the mission cards and deal 
two cards to each player. Each player chooses one card to 
keep, placing it facedown in his play area, and places the 
unchosen card facedown on top of the undealt mission 
cards. Chosen mission cards remain hidden from other 
players until the end of the game.
9.	
Create Event Deck: Shuffle the discovery cards, the action 
cards, and all remaining mission cards together to create the 
event deck and place it facedown near the token supply.
Setup Diagram (4-player game)
If you have the most 
ice point tokens, 
gain 9 points.
In case of a tie, 
the tied players evenly 
divide the 9 points, 
rounded down. 
Ice Monopoly
GLOBAL MISSION
JO
R
SY
RT
IS
RI
NE
RIS
VA
LL
ES
BO
AL
IS
VA
ST
IT
AS

Playing the Game
The game is played over a series of rounds, with a few 
different phases occurring in between certain rounds. The 
round tracker displays the order in which the rounds and 
phases occur.
The Game Round
There are 10 rounds during the game, each indicated by a number on 
the round tracker. During a round, each player secretly chooses one 
character card from his hand and, later in the round, resolves its effect. 
Each character card has a unique effect, such as placing astronauts on 
ships, drawing event cards, or even destroying a docked ship.
A round consists of these six steps:
Choose Character
Resolve Character Effects
Land Launched Ships
Draw New Docked Ships
Assign New First Player
Advance Round Tracker
1. Choose Character
Each player simultaneously chooses one character card from his hand 
and places it facedown in front of him. When all players have chosen 
their card, continue to the next step.
2. Resolve Character Effects
During this step, players reveal and resolve their characters’ effects, 
and docked ships can become full and launch.
Each character card has a number in the upper-left corner of the 
card, which determines when the card is revealed. The first player 
begins reciting the “countdown to blastoff,” announcing each 
character number starting with the number “9” 
(the Recruiter). Each player whose facedown card 
matches the announced character number reveals 
it, flipping it faceup, and resolves its effect. If two 
or more players reveal the same character, they 
resolve their character’s effect in clockwise order, 
starting with the first player.
After all players who revealed the announced character have resolved 
its effect, or if no player chose the announced character, the first 
player continues reciting the countdown by announcing the next 
character in descending order, and so on until all players have 
revealed their chosen character cards.
When resolving character effects, they must be resolved from top 
to bottom in the order written on the card. Played character cards 
remain faceup in front of the owner and visible for all players to see.
Note: Once a character is used, it cannot be used again until the 
player plays the Recruiter card, which returns all of his played cards 
to his hand.
A ship is full when the number of astronauts on it is 
equal to its capacity number. When a docked ship 
becomes full, it launches. The first player slides the 
ship card away from the launchpad to indicate that 
the ship has launched (see images below).
Ships launch only if they become full or due to a game effect, such as 
the Secret Agent. Ships that are not full stay docked at the launchpad.
3. Land Launched Ships
Each launched ship lands on Mars, unloading all astronauts aboard 
that ship in the indicated zone. If there is a destination token covering 
the destination printed on the ship card, the ship instead lands in the 
zone indicated on the token.
When an astronaut is placed in a zone with a facedown resource 
token, the resource token is flipped faceup, revealing which resource 
is present in that zone.
After landing a ship, place it faceup next to the ship deck in the ship 
discard pile. If it had a destination token, return it to the supply. 
4. Draw New Docked Ships
During this step, new ships are docked at the launchpad. For each 
open dock at the launchpad, the first player draws one ship card and 
places it faceup at an open dock. If the ship deck is depleted, shuffle its 
discard pile and place it facedown to create a new deck.
5. Assign New First Player
The player who resolved his character effect last during this round 
takes the round tracker, becoming the new first player. 
6. Advance Round Tracker
The first player slides the gauge clockwise until 
the pointer lines up with the next notch. The icon 
visible in the window indicates which round or 
phase occurs next.
Character 
Order Number
Ship Capacity
Launched
Docked

Production Phase
In the game there are three production phases indicated on the round 
tracker. During a production phase, each zone with a faceup resource 
token produces point tokens of its resource type equal to the number 
of dots shown in the production phase icon.
Then, players receive point tokens based on majority in each zone. 
If only one player has the most astronauts in a zone, he receives all 
the point tokens from that zone. If two or more players tie for the 
most astronauts in a zone, the tied players evenly distribute the point 
tokens from that zone. Any remaining point tokens stay in the zone 
and can possibly be won at a later time. If there are no astronauts in a 
zone, the point tokens stay in that zone.
At the end of each production phase, the first player advances the 
round tracker to the next notch. 
Example: There are two players tied in a zone with three point tokens, 
so the two tied players each receive one of those point tokens, and the 
third point token stays in the zone.
Example: There are three players tied in a zone with two point tokens, 
so the three tied players do not receive any of those point tokens, and 
those tokens stay in the zone.
Reveal Discovery Phase
The first player flips all discovery cards in play faceup. Each discovery 
card effect resolves during the phase indicated by the icon in the 
lower-right corner of the card, as shown below.
At the end of the reveal discovery phase, the first player advances the 
round tracker to the next notch. 
Final Scoring Phase
Players reveal their mission cards and determine if they were 
completed. The player(s) with the most ice point tokens gain points 
for completing the “Ice Monopoly” global mission. Then, each player 
calculates his final score as follows:
He adds points from his completed missions.
He adds the total value of all his collected point tokens.
He adds or subtracts points from discoveries that affect him.
Players compare final scores, and the player with the highest score 
wins the game. In case of a tie, the tied player who has the largest 
quantity of point tokens (regardless of value) wins the game. If there is 
still a tie, the tied players share the victory.
Event Cards
There are three types of event cards: discoveries, missions, and 
actions. Event cards are drawn when dealing starting missions during 
setup and by the Scientist’s effect.
Discoveries are scientific phenomenons or 
geographical features that can be found on Mars. 
When a player draws a discovery card, he assigns it 
facedown to any outer zone of Mars by physically 
sliding a portion of the card under the board. At the 
end of the game, discovery cards provide either a 
positive or negative effect (e.g., that zone produces 
more point tokens).
Missions are secret objectives that award points to the owner if he 
completes them. When a player draws a mission card, he looks at it 
and keeps it facedown in his play area. It remains hidden until the 
final scoring phase.
Actions are special effects that can occur at different times in the 
game. When a player draws an action card, he looks at it and keeps it 
facedown in his play area. He keeps it hidden until the text specifies 
when to play it.
Destination Tokens
Destination tokens are used by the Pilot’s effect and 
by the player who places the first astronaut in a ship 
with an unknown destination. When either of these 
situations occur, the active player takes any destination 
token from the supply and places it on top of the ship’s 
printed destination. This ship is now bound for the 
destination printed on the token.
The destination token supply is limited to two tokens 
per zone. When a ship with a destination token lands, 
return the token to the supply.
Lost in Space Memorial
The Lost in Space Memorial enshrines the valiant astronauts who died 
at some point during their Martian expedition. The Femme Fatale 
and Soldier effects directly kill astronauts, who are then sent to the 
Lost in Space Memorial. Also, any astronauts aboard a docked ship 
that is destroyed by a Saboteur are killed and sent to the Lost in Space 
Memorial. The Lost in Space Memorial is not a zone.
Phobos
Phobos acts as an outpost for colonists headed to Mars. Phobos 
behaves like the other zones on Mars except that it is not adjacent to 
any other zone and discovery cards cannot be assigned to it. 
Ice Monopoly Mission
The “Ice Monopoly” mission is a global mission, meaning it can be 
completed by any player. During final scoring, the player with the 
most ice point tokens has completed the mission and gains 9 points. 
In case of a tie for the most ice tokens, the tied players divide the 9 
points among them (rounded down).
n this zone.
Reveal Discovery 
Third Production 
Final Scoring 
Each zone produces one 
point token during the 
first production phase.
Each zone produces two 
point tokens during the 
second production phase.
Each zone produces three 
point tokens during the 
third production phase.
Unknown 
Destination Icon
A discovery card 
assigned to Hellas.

Card Clarifications
This section addresses rule questions that may arise 
during the game.
Character Cards
All character effects are mandatory and must be fully 
resolved, if possible. If it is not possible to fully resolve the 
effect, then it should be resolved as fully as possible. The 
Travel Agent’s effect, which must be fully resolved or not at all, 
is the only exception to this rule.
A player must fully resolve his character’s effect before any full 
ships can launch.
Example: The red player chooses the Saboteur. When he 
reveals it during the next step, there is only one docked ship 
at the launchpad. He must place one of his astronauts on the 
docked ship, which becomes full. Then, he must destroy that 
ship before it launches.
9 Recruiter: The player takes all of his played character cards 
back into his hand, including the Recruiter card.
8 Explorer: To make a move, the player moves one of his 
astronauts from its current zone to an adjacent zone. The 
same astronaut can be moved multiple times. When a player 
moves an astronaut to a zone with a facedown resource token, 
he flips that token faceup.
7 Scientist: After looking at a facedown discovery card, the 
player returns it facedown to its assigned zone. If all outer 
zones already have a discovery card assigned to them and the 
player draws a discovery card, he discards it faceup next to the 
event deck and looks at a facedown discovery card in play.
6 Secret Agent: The player can force a ship that has zero 
astronauts on board to launch.
5 Saboteur: All astronauts on a destroyed ship are killed and 
placed on the Lost in Space Memorial, and then the destroyed 
ship is discarded.
4 Femme Fatale: The “replace” effect can target astronauts 
in a docked ship, a launched ship, or any zone of Mars 
(including Phobos) in which at least one of his own astronauts 
is already present. The replaced astronaut is killed and placed 
on the Lost in Space Memorial.
3 Travel Agent: If there is not a docked ship with room for at 
least three more astronauts, the player ignores this effect and 
skips his turn.
2 Soldier: The “kill” effect can target astronauts in any zone 
except Syrtis Major and Valles Marineris. A player can kill his 
own astronauts. Astronauts that are moved at the same time 
are not required to go to the same zone. The player must move 
at least one astronaut.
1 Pilot: The “place a destination token” effect can target either 
a docked ship or a launched ship. Destination tokens can be 
placed on top of other destination tokens, thus changing that 
ship’s destination again.
Event Cards
Action Cards
Action cards are kept hidden together with mission cards.
Discovery Cards
Discovery cards can be assigned to any zone except Phobos, 
Syrtis Major, and Valles Marineris.
Each zone (including Tritonis Sinus) can have at most one 
discovery card assigned to it, and assigned discovery cards 
cannot be removed, overridden, or replaced.
Discovery cards have effects that can resolve when revealed 
(during the reveal discovery phase), during the third 
production phase, or during the final scoring phase.
Even Ground & Uneven Ground: These card effects apply 
only during the third production phase. During the final 
scoring phase, each player is treated as having his actual 
number of astronauts in the zone. 
Mining Incident vs. Synergy: When “Mining Incident” affects 
a zone that is also affected by “Synergy,” “Mining Incident” 
takes precedence; no point tokens are placed in that zone.
Subterfuge: In case of a tie for second-most astronauts, those 
tied players evenly distribute the point tokens. In case of a tie 
for most astronauts, those tied players evenly distribute the 
point tokens as normal. If only one player has astronauts in 
this zone, the point tokens stay in the zone.
Mission Cards
A few mission cards award the owning player “1/2/4/7 points” 
for having “at least 1 astronaut in 1/2/3/4 of the red zones.” 
Depending on how many zones in which his astronauts 
are present, the owning player gains points matching the 
sequence (e.g., if the player is present in only one of the red 
zones, he gains 1 point; if the player is 
present in all four red zones, he 
gains 7 points).
A few mission cards award the 
owning player points if he has 
“the most” of something. If 
the owning player is tied for 
the most, the mission counts 
as being completed and he 
gains the points indicated 
on the card.
Strategic Zones: The 
owning player gains points 
for this mission card if he 
has the highest number of 
total astronauts in Syrtis 
Major and Valles Marineris. 
He is not required to have 
majority in either zone. 

2-Player Variant
To play the game with two players, the following rule 
changes apply.
Setup
Set up the two-player game as a four-player game with a few minor 
changes to the steps below, as well as one additional step:
Choose Colors and Arrange Seating: The players sit next 
to each other. Each player chooses one color to be his main 
color and the other to be his neutral color. He takes 
the nine character cards of both colors and all the plastic 
astronauts of both colors. He places the components of 
his main color in front of him and the components of his 
neutral color across from him (see diagram below).
8.	
Deal Starting Mission: Separate the mission cards, shuffle 
them, and deal two cards to each main color. Each player 
chooses one card to keep, placing it facedown in front 
of him, and places the unchosen card facedown near the 
undealt mission cards. Chosen mission cards remain hidden 
from other players until the end of the game.
10.	 Prepare Neutral Character Decks: Each player prepares 
his own neutral deck. First, remove the Recruiter, Explorer, 
Femme Fatale, Soldier, and two additional random character 
cards from the neutral deck. Shuffle the six removed cards and 
place them facedown. Then, without looking at the remaining 
three neutral character cards, place them facedown on top of 
the deck in any order.
Playing the 2-player Game
The two-player game plays very similarly to the standard game with a 
few minor changes.
Playing the Neutral Color
Each round, before the player chooses his main color’s character, 
he draws the top card of his neutral character deck and looks at 
it, without showing it to his opponent. He places that neutral card 
facedown near its deck and then chooses his main color’s character 
card, placing it facedown in front of him.
Resolving Neutral Characters
When resolving a neutral color’s character effect, the controlling player 
makes all decisions for that neutral color (where to place astronauts, 
which ship to destroy, etc.). The controlling player can make a choice 
that causes his neutral color to kill or replace its own astronauts.
When resolving a neutral Scientist, the controlling player draws the 
event card. If it is a discovery card, he can assign it to any available 
outer zone. If it is a mission card or an action card, he returns it to the 
game box without showing it to his opponent.
When resolving a neutral Recruiter, the controlling player first returns 
that Recruiter card to the game box. Then, he shuffles the other eight 
neutral character cards and places them facedown to create a new 
character deck for that neutral color.
Because character effects are mandatory, there may arise situations 
when a neutral character effect does not help (or even harms) 
its controlling player (e.g., the neutral character is a Soldier and 
the only player who has astronauts in outer zones of Mars is the 
controlling player). 
Points for Neutral Colors
When resolving event cards, treat the neutral colors as separate 
players for the purposes of counting resources and scoring points. 
Neutral colors can complete the “Ice Monopoly” global mission.
When a color receives point tokens, they are placed in that color’s 
play area. Neutral colors receive point tokens for themselves, so they 
are not shared with the controlling player’s main color.
Winning the Game
When players compare final scores, they do so for each color. The 
color with the highest score wins. If either neutral color has the 
highest score, then both players lose. Otherwise, the player whose 
main color has the highest score wins.
In case of a tie between a main color and a neutral color, the main 
color wins.
In case of a tie between both main colors, the color who has the 
largest quantity of point tokens (regardless of value) wins the game. If 
there is still a tie, the tied players share the victory.
Player B 
Main Color
Player A 
Neutral Color
Player A 
Main Color
Player B 
Neutral Color
Play Area
2-Player Seating Arrangement

FANTASY
FLIGHT
GAMES
Credits
Game Design: Bruno Faidutti and Bruno Cathala
Game Development: Steven Kimball
Producer: Steven Kimball
Editing and Proofreading: Christopher Meyer and Sean O’Leary
Graphic Design: Samuel Shimota
Graphic Design Manager: Brian Schomburg
Cover and Character Art: Andrew Bosley
Board Art: Alyn Spiller
Launchpad and Ship Art: Samuel Shimota
Art Direction: Andy Christensen
Production Coordination: John Britton, Jason Glawe, 
and Johanna Whiting
Production Management: Megan Duehn and Simone Elliott
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Samuel Bailey, Chiara Bertulessi, Simone Biga, Frank 
Brooks, Josh Callaway, Vince Creer, Caterina D’Agostini, Andrea 
Dell’Agnese, Steven Duff, Julia Faeta, Silvia Faeta, Derrick Fuchs, 
Deb Godley, Grace Holdinghaus, Alex Ortloff, Mark Larson, Adam 
Laughton, Julia Laughton, Thomas Laughton, Harrison Lavin, James 
Meier, Martin Scrase, Mark Underwood, and Jason Walden
Special thanks to the dozens of French playtesters who helped refine 
the earliest prototypes of the game.
Quick Reference
Round Sequence
Choose Character
Resolve Character Effects
Land Launched Ships
Draw New Docked Ships
Assign New First Player
Advance Round Tracker
Phase Icons
Resource Token Distribution
Event Deck Composition
Native Resistance
MISSION
Eastern Influence
Blocks of Ice
 © 2015 Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. No part of this product may 
be reproduced without specific written permission. Mission: Red Planet 
and Fantasy Flight Supply are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, 
Inc. Fantasy Flight Games and the FFG logo are registered trademarks 
of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 
1995 West County Road B2, Roseville, MN 55113, USA, 651-639-
1905. Actual components may vary from those shown. Made in China. 
THIS PRODUCT IS NOT A TOY. NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF 
PERSONS 13 YEARS OF AGE OR YOUNGER. 
Ice
Sylvanite
Celerium
Reveal Discovery Phase
1st Production Phase 
(one token)
2nd Production Phase 
(two tokens)
3rd Production Phase 
(three tokens)
Final Scoring Phase
PROOF OF 
PURCHASE
Mission: Red 
Planet VA93 
841333100025