R U L E B O O K
By Reiner Knizia

In the game, players take on the role of a Museum 
that is trying to buy and sell paintings at the best 
price.
The game is played over four rounds. Each round, 
paintings are auctioned by the players. At the end of a 
round, the paintings are sold to the bank.
The more that one artist’s work is purchased, the 
more valuable it becomes.
The winner is the player who has the most money at 
the end of the four rounds.
COMPONENTS
GOAL OF THE GAME
GAME SETUP
1) Shuffle the 70 paintings cards. Deal the cards as 
follows:
	
• 3 players : 10 cards each
	
• 4 players : 9 cards each
	
• 5 players : 8 cards each
These cards are the paintings that will be auctioned 
in that first round. For now, players will just be 
auctioning off the paintings. Their Museums do not 
own them. The remaining cards won’t be used until 
the next round.
2) Choose one player to be the Banker. The Banker 
gives 100 k€ (100.000 €) to each player:
3) Each player chooses one Museum screen behind 
which he will hide his money from the others. None must 
know how much money the other players have until the 
end of the game.
The youngest player receives the hammer and begins 
the first auction.
 
GAMEPLAY
Modern Art is played over four rounds. During each 
round, the players will auction the paintings they 
have in their hands. As soon as one of the artists’ fifth 
painting is played on the table, the round ends and all 
the paintings that have been purchased in that round 
are sold to the bank.
The value of a painting depends on the rank of its 
artist for the round. During the following rounds, the 
rank may change, causing the value of an artist’s 
painting to increase, decrease or become worthless. 
To add to the game’s atmosphere, try to say 
a few words about the auctioned painting’s 
quality to motivate other players to put money 
on it. You must also give all players a warning 
that the auction is about to end: “Going once. 
Going twice. Sold!”
1 Game Board
5 Museum Screens
1 Hammer Token
(Auctioneer marker)
12 Cards 
Manuel Carvalho
Ramon Martins
Daniel Melim
Rafael Silveira
13 Cards 
Sigrid Thaler
132 Money Tokens 
(1 k€, 5 k€, 10 k€,
25 k€, 50 k€, and 100 k€).
12 Artist Value 
Tiles* (10 k€, 20 
k€,30 k€)

RUNNING AUCTIONS
The youngest player will have the first opportunity to 
hold an auction. They choose any one of the painting 
cards in their hand and show it to the other players. 
They place the painting faceup in the center of the 
table, so everyone can see it. The painting is now up 
for auction. The player who played the card will act as 
the auctioneer. Each painting has a symbol beside its 
name that shows which type of auction must be held 
when the card is played.
There are five types of auctions, each with a unique 
symbol:
When an auction ends, the player who made the 
highest bid pays the auctioneer the amount of the 
bid. If the auctioneer made the highest bid, then the 
money is paid from the auctioneer to the bank instead.
The winner of the auction takes the painting and 
places it faceup in front of their museum screen. 
Their Museum now owns this painting and will sell it 
at the end of the round. After one painting has been 
bought, the player to the left of the last auctioneer 
receives the Hammer token and offers a painting card 
from their hand for a new auction. Play continues 
clockwise until the end of the round.
THE FIVE TYPES OF AUCTIONS
A. OPEN AUCTION
• If the auctioneer plays an Open 
Auction card, then all players (including 
the auctioneer) can bid in any order. To 
make a bid, simply state the amount of your bid out 
loud. The auctioneer is reponsible for keeping track of 
the bids. The auction ends when no player wants to 
make a higher bid. If no players make any bids, then 
the auctioneer gets the painting for free.
B. ONE offer AUCTION
Starting with the player to the left of 
the auctioneer, and moving clockwise 
around the table, each player may 
choose not to bid and pass or they can bid by 
stating an amount higher than the previous bid. The 
auctioneer has the last chance to bid. 
After the auctioneer bids or passes, the auction ends. 
If no players make any bids, then the auctioneer gets 
the painting for free.
C. hidden AUCTION
All players (including the auctioneer) 
simultaneously make one bid in 
secret. Choose how much you want to 
bid and secretly put that much money in your hand. 
If you don’t want to bid for the painting, don’t put any 
money in your hand. Without letting any other player 
see your bid, hold out a closed fist with your bid 
hidden inside. 
Once all players have held out a closed fist (containing 
either a bid or nothing), everyone opens their fists 
at the same time and the highest bidder buys the 
painting. If two or more players tie for the highest 
bid, then the player sitting closest to the auctioneer in 
clockwise order wins the auction. 
If the auctioneer is one of the players who tied for the 
highest bid, then they buy the painting.
If no players make any bids, then the auctioneer gets 
the painting for free.
D. FIXED PRICE AUCTION
The auctioneer chooses a price for 
the painting and annouces it aloud. 
Each player, starting with the player 
to the left of the auctioneer and then 
continuing clockwise, can buy the painting at this 
price (once someone buys it, the auction ends). If no 
one buys the painting, the auctioneer MUST buy it for 
the fixed price.
Notice: The auctioneer may not declare a price that is 
more than the amount of money they currently have.
E. DOUBLE AUCTION
1) If the auctioneer plays a Double 
Auction card, they may choose to offer 
a second painting card. The second 
painting must be of the same artist, but cannot be 
another Double Auction painting. Then, both paintings 
are auctioned together according to the type of 
auction shown on the second painting. The winner of 
the auction both paintings.
2) If the auctioneer does not play a second painting 
card (or cannot play one), then the player to their left 
now has the opportunity to play a second painting 
card. Of course, this card must be of the same artist, 
but cannot be another Double Auction painting. If the 
player does not wish to play a second painting (or 
cannot), then each of the other players, in clockwise 
order around the table, has an opportunity to play one. 
If no other player places a second painting, then the 
auctioneer gets their original painting for free.
But, if another player plays a second painting, then 
that player becomes the new auctioneer. They auction 
the two cards together using the type of auction 
shown on the second painting (the second card 
played). The highest bidder buys both paintings and 
the new auctioneer receives all the money (the player 
who played the Double Auction painting doesn’t 
take anything). As usual, if the new auctioneer is the 
highest bidder, they pays their bid to the bank.
After the auction, play continues with the player to 
the left of the new auctioneer. Any player between 
the original auctioneer and the new one loses their 
opportunity to auction a painting this turn.
Open
Fixed Price
Hidden
One Offer
Double
GENERAL RULES FOR AUCTIONS
• All bids must be in units of 1 k€
(i.e., 1000 €, at least one money token)
• You cannot bid less than or equal to another 
player.
• You cannot bid more money than you actually 
have behind your screen.
• If no players make any bids, then the 
auctioneer gets the painting for free. 
Exception: for the Fixed Price auction, they 
must pay the price they declared.

ENDING THE AUCTION ROUND
During the auction round, you must keep track of how 
many paintings are sold for each artist. When the fifth 
painting from any single artist is played, the round 
ends. The fifth painting is NOT auctioned, and is not 
owned by any player at the end of the round.
If the fifth painting is the second painting of a Double 
Auction, then there will be two unsold paintings at the 
end of the round instead of one. If the fifth painting is 
the first painting of a Double Auction, then the round 
ends and no second painting is played.
Players usually have cards left in their hand at the end 
of the auction round. They keep these cards, as they 
may be auctioned off in later rounds.
SELLING TO THE BANK
First, count the number of paintings sold in auction for 
each artist during that round. Be sure to include any 
unsold paintings that were played to end the round, 
even though they were never sold.
Determine which artists sold the first, second, and 
third most paintings this round. These rankings will 
determine the value of the artists’ works. If there 
were less than three artists who sold paintings this 
round, then only rank the artists whose paintings 
were auctionned.
If two or more artists have the same number of sold 
paintings, the artist who is closer to the left side of the 
game board (the closest to Manuel) is ranked better.
The artist’s ranking determines the value of each of 
that artist’s paintings, accordind to this chart:
	
• First: 30 k€
	
• Second: 20 k€
	
• Third: 10 k€
	
• All others: nothing
Place an Artist Value tile on the board beneath the 
name of the artist. There are four rows of spaces on 
the board, one for each round. For each of the three 
artists who sold more this round, put the appropriate 
tile (30 k€, 20 k€ or 10 k€) in this column, in the row 
corresponding to the round. These tiles remain on the 
board for the entire game and can increase the value 
of that artist in future rounds.
Once the values have been marked on the board, 
players must sell all the paintings they purchased 
in auctions that round, even if a painting is worth 
nothing. The tile in that artist’s column determines 
how much money the player earns when they sell the 
painting at the end of the first round.
Once all players receive money for their paintings, all 
the paintings they bought that round are discarded, 
even if they are worth nothing. Ownership of 
paintings is never carried over from one round to the 
next. Cards in the players’ hands are not discarded 
between rounds.
THE FOLLOWING AUCTION 
ROUNDS
After the paintings are sold and discarded, a new 
auction round can begin. First, deal each player new 
cards from the deck of unused cards. The number of 
cards is determined by the number of players and 
which round is about to begin:
The new paintings are added to any cards remaining 
in players’ hands from previous rounds. After dealing 
the new cards, another auction round begins. Play then 
continues with the player to the left of the auctioneer 
who played the last painting in the previous round 
(the painting that was not auctioned). Auctions are 
conducted exactly the same way in all rounds.
The value of paintings by a popular artist can increase 
in later rounds. When an artist is one of the top three 
in a round, any paintings from that artist are worth 
the total value of all Artist Value tiles in that artist’s 
column. Paintings by artists who do not rank in the 
top three are still worthless, even if they have Artist 
Value tiles from previous rounds.
Running out of cards: If a player runs out of cards during 
a round, they cannot auction any more paintings until 
they get new cards between rounds. They may still bid 
on paintings put up for auction by the other players.
If all players run out of cards before the end of the 
fourth round, then that round ends when the final 
painting card is played. The final painting is not 
auctioned off and is not owned by anyone. Determine 
the value of each artist based on the number of 
paintings that were actualy offered (including the 
final painting) and pay everyone for the paintings they 
own. Then the game ends.
NUMBER OF CARDS DEALT AT THE BEGINNING:
NUMBER
OF PLAYERS
1ST
2ND
3RD
4TH
3 PLAYERS
4 PLAYERS
5 PLAYERS
EXAMPLE - double auction
Paul plays a Ramon Martins’ painting card 
with the Double Auction symbol. He doesn’t 
want to play a second painting card.
On his left, Mark, doesn’t play a card either. 
Marie, who is to the left of Mark, takes the 
opportunity and plays a Ramon Martins’ painting 
with the Hidden Auction symbol.
All players make a secret bid. When everyone 
reveals their bid, the highest bidder is Marie, with 
25 k€. She pays 25 k€ to the bank and takes 
the two paintings. If Paul or Mark had been the 
highest bidder, they would have given 25 k€ 
to Marie. Now the player to the left of Marie 
proposes a new auction, and not Mark who 
would normally play after Paul.

3 PLAYERS VARIANT: 
THE MYSTERY PLAYER 
In each round, deal out cards as if there 
were four players, but keep one hand face 
down and to the side. This hand does not 
belong to any player, but instead is the 
“mystery hand”.
After you finish a normal auction from your 
hand, you may flip over a random card from 
the mystery hand. The choice to reveal a 
mystery card is always optional. 
The mystery painting is not auctioned,
and does not belong to any player. 
But, it does count as a painting offered for 
auction in the round, and is also counted 
to determine when the round ends.
So, if the mystery painting is the fifth 
painting offered for an artist, the round ends. 
If the mystery painting is a Double Auction 
card, no second card is played.
After you sell your paintings at the end of the 
round, any mystery paintings revealed are 
discarded along with everyone else’s.
WINNING THE GAME
When the fourth rounds ends and all the paintings are 
sold, all players reveal their money. The player with 
the most money is the winner.
CREDITS
Game design - Reiner Knizia
Graphic Design - Fabio de Castro
PRODUCTION - Thiago Aranha, Guilherme 
Goulart and Renato Sasdelli 
publisher - David Preti
pROOFREADING - Jared Miller, Jason Koepp, & 
Colin Young.
EXAMPLE - VALUE OF RAFAEL SILVEIRA
FIRST ROUND: Rafael Silveira does very well in the 
first round. His paintings are worth 30 k€ each this 
round. Each Rafael Silveira painting, bought by a 
player in this round is sold to the bank for 30 k€ (thus, 
a player with two paintings gets 60 k€).
SECOND ROUND: Rafael Silveira does not do so well, 
but finishes in third place. This round, his value is 10 
k€, but since he did so well in the previuos round, his 
paintings are worth 40 k€ (10 k€ for being in third 
place this round, and 30 k€ for being in first place in 
the previous round).
THIRD ROUND: This was a bad round for Rafael 
Silveira! His paintings are worth nothing this round, 
despite the 30 k€ and 10 k€ Artist Value tiles on the 
board.
FORTH ROUND: Rafael Silveira comes back and 
finishes in second place in this final round. His 
paintings are each worth 60 k€ (20 k€ for this last 
round, 10 k€ for the second round, and 30 k€ for the 
first round).

A R T B O O K

OIL

melim
daniel
Daniel Melim took the tradition of stencil graffiti to a different 
level of excellence. From the simple and direct messages 
his art passes on, in the industrial suburbs of Sao Bernardo 
to the most sophisticated and formal galleries and 
museums all over the word, what you can identify is a strict 
and original aesthetic. 
His art interventions, reminiscent of classic Brazilian street 
art, are known for their selection of unique locations, often 
favoring deteriorated spaces which provide vivid elements of 
composition (colors, texture, position).
A great share of his interventions are located in suburban 
neighborhoods of São Paulo, reaching an audience that is 
regularly deprived of art. Due to that particular experience, 
many of Melim’s non-street pieces are presented in galleries 
and museums, such as Galeria Choque Cultural, Museu 
AfroBrasil, Memorial da América Latina, Bienal de Valência 
na Espanha, MASP, and many other spaces and institutions 
over the world.

Unsistema
Streetfobia
Sua Cabeça
The Strangers
Suspeitos
Suburbio Geral
2 Abto Social
CR$
daniel melin

Barraco
Punk II
Eletrico Sistema
Dirty Suburb
Recorte Social
daniel melim
Daniel Melim was born and raised in São Bernardo do 
Campo, São Paulo, Brazil. Since 2000, he has been working 
on urban interventions with stencil graffiti, and collecting 
projects, expositions, and awards since then, including:
• First individual exposition at gallery Choque Cultural, São 
Paulo, 2005.
• Collective expositions: “Território Ocupado”, at Afro Brasil 
Museum and “Novo Muralismo Latino-americano”, at 
Memorial da America Latina, 2006.
• Valencia Bienal - special part with paitings and intervention 
of specific site on the old building, 2007.
• The Can’s Festival - exhibition that took place inside an 
abandoned tunnel in London, organized by the artist Bansky, 
in 2008.
• Exhibition “De Dentro Para Fora De Fora Para Dentro” 
(Inside Out and Outside In) in 2009, at the MASP - Museu 
de Arte de São Paulo Assis Chateaubriand, which had an 
incredible record of more than 140 thousand visitors.
• “Mural da Luz” intervention (one of the biggest street art 
works in São Paulo), Av Prestes Maia, Center, 2012.
• Permanent collection Award at Pinacoteca do Estado, 2012.
• Public structure at Shoutbank park, London, 2013.

SANDBURG

carvalho
manuel
Analyzing the artwork of Manuel Carvalho, you can identify a 
combination of figurative elements with a common source and a 
group of procedures that intervenes with the constructed image; 
this means of attacking the original image - thereby creating a 
new image - assumes the role of a deliberate, almost informal 
erasure that masks and disrupts the relationship between the 
viewer and the painting’s representation.
But this superficial incoherence is striclty functional. Even the 
most rigorous symmetry has its support on the background 
gestuality, creating a world where you can dinstinguish the 
high and the low - the shallow imaginary and the historical 
background - in a infinite combination of distinct elements that 
have their purposes consistently renewed.
The paitings can, therefore, be understood as a part of a specific 
series, when they are looked at as a collection of sub-series or 
even when you group them with Carvalho’s previous works. The 
aperture of meaning and sensation that is produced from the 
accumulation and always provisional value of each painting and 
group that they form constitutes itself as the ultimate conceptual 
character of Manuel Carvalho’s painting.

Anacolutos
Cura 1
Cena de Interior
Paisagem com Pássaros
Na Falta de Espaço
Cura 2
Cura 3
manuel carvalho

???
Shunga
Paisagens
manuel carvalho
Manuel Carvalho received his Bachelor’s degree in 
Visual Arts from Escola Guignard – UEMG. He had a 
broad experience in Residence programs all over her 
world, including Jaca (Jardim Canadá, Brazil), 2015, in a 
partnership with Warley Desali; Agora (Bela Scrva, Servia), 
in 2014; and EXA (Belo Horizonte, Brazil), in 2013.
In partnership with Gustavo Maia, he was selected for the 
1º Itamaraty Contemporary Art Award in 2011. 
Individual expositions in Empate (Mama/Cadela galeria), 
2014, Belo Horizonte; Da pintura (BDMG cultural) 2014, 
Belo Horizonte.
Among the different collective expositions, main distinction 
to: Antimônio, (Mama/Cadela Galeria), 2014, Belo Horizonte; 
2013, Belo Horizonte; Atropelamento (Centro Cultural 
UFMG), 2011, Belo Horizonte; Encontros e Mestiçagens 
Culturais (FAOP), 2010, Ouro Preto; Draw drawing 2 – 
London Biennale (Foundry Gallery), 2006, Inglaterra.
Manuel lives and works in Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

ornaMENTAL

silveira
rafael
Rafael Silveira is a fine artist with a strong background in 
graphic arts. The majority of his works consists of oil and acrilic 
paintings that mix classical atmosphere with contemporary 
techniques and subjects, especially cartoon imagery.
In his work, the dream-like floats above the real, creating 
distorted and multi-colored effects, revealing in each painting, 
parallel dimensions that inspire a new day-to-day. Keeping 
himself apart from shallow and transient matters, the artist 
searchs in the psychic intimacy of human beings all the 
arguments to construct his enigmatic images, which express 
deep and surprising concepts through unusual metaphors.
On the journey to expand his artistic vocabulary, Silveira 
established a dialogue between his paintings and new 
mediuns, such as wood sculpture and collage, among others.

Oftalmorphosis
Sentimental
Time will tell
Vanitas
Dissonância
Anatomic 
Couple
Powerfull Instinct
rafael silveira

Intangível
Allegory of
Time Opus 
1, 2 and 3
At Full Steam
A Walk in the Garden
Live 
Fast
rafael silveira
Rafael Silveira started to draw at the end of the 80s, when 
he was still a child. Throughout the 90s, he published his 
works in small indie magazines around Brazil. In the mid-
2000, he started to working illustration. His drawings were 
in the pages of the most important Brazilian magazines, 
illustrated ad campaigns, and awarded promotional 
materials in Europe.
The outcome of the colision between the waking and the 
dreamlike is a timeless art that has conquered attention 
and eyes of different societies. São Paulo, New York, 
London, and Milan have received Rafael’s art expositions 
and important international publishings have shown his 
works, like the Americans Juxtapoz and Hi-Fructose, the 
french “Hey!”, and the cover of the Brazilian Zupi.
He currently lives and works in Curitiba, in the south of Brazil.

XXXX

martins
ramon
The fluid spirit of Ramon constitutes a collage of possibilities 
and reconfigurations. A “kaleidoscopic” universe that reflects a 
deep and rich essence, created out of a rebellion to his urban 
culture background, associated to academic reflections.
Since his debut, Ramon has impressed with his unique style 
of ecletic approaches, languages, and artistic techniques. His 
universal narratives can be identified by themes and elements 
based on tropical natures, organic traces, the ‘barroco 
mineiro’ style, urban culture, Asian tradition, pop culture, 
and it’s opposites: solitude and anonimous portraits. A strong 
“geographic poetry” is perceived in his work.
The artist articulates beautiful visual poetry derived from a 
huge variety of places, times, cultures, behaviors, and values. 
There’s a vibration, excitation, and melancholy that, beside 
its explosive visual exuberance, take you to an instrospective 
commune. In a lascivious way, this work envisions a dreamlike 
reality that reveals different possibilities about ourselves. 

Biju de Licuri
Arapuca
Primeiro Encontro de Casamento Arranjado
Miragem
Memoria
Made-In
Ninguém Sabe Quem Sou Eu
ramon martins

União das Coreias
Teletransporte
Jussara
Schucrutez
Carmen Surukyuki
In 2014, Ramon was part of the 3º edition of “R.U.A. 
Festival: Reflex on Urban Art in Amsterdam”, with the panel 
“A Pregnant Man’s Dream”. In 2009, he part of the first 
edition, “R.U.A. Festival: Reflex on Urban Art in Rotterdam” 
the opportunity that gave him great visibility and professional 
projection. During this festival, the artist exposed one of his 
most brilliant works, “Love Spreads, 2009”. 
Right after the success of his open air performance in 
Rotterdam, Ramon joined the exhibition “De Dentro Para 
Fora De Fora Para Dentro” (Inside Out and Outside In) 
yet in 2009, at the MASP - Museu de Arte de São Paulo 
Assis Chateaubriand, which had an incredible record of 
more than 140 thousand visitors in a period of 10 weeks. 
Ramon’s representative works belong to Brazil’s greatest 
collections, including MAM – RJ (Museu de Arte Moderna, 
Rio de Janeiro) and MASP, in São Paulo.
So far, the artist has taken part in exhibitions in South 
America, North America, and Europe; and his panels have 
reached all continents with the same intensity.
Ramon Martins lives in the quiet city of Campina do Monte 
Alegre, in São Paulo, Brazil.
ramon martins

SANDBURG

thaler
sigrid
Sigrid Thaler’s characters move over unreal romantic and 
refined backgrounds, yet still connected to everyday life. They 
are placed in space with no gravitational order and each one 
express themselves conveying their own identity.
Her works are mostly monochromatic and dominated by 
shades of gray.
Sigrid has work with several publishing houses creating works 
of literature for children. Parallel to that, she has refined her 
painting skills on silk and other fabrics. These techniques she 
has taught for many years, holding multiple classes on fabric 
painting for children. She is also skilled at painting porcelain.

Bewegung
Neue Strassen
Das Riesenrad
---
Leben
Das Spiel
Fänger von Hameln
Sweet Home
Il Pisolino
sigrid tahler

Shape of My Heart
Con-Dividi
Lea
The Diver
Wir Ich Oder
Broken
sigrid tahler
Born in Vipiteno, Italy in 1971, Sigrid Thaler has presented 
her artwork in several exhibitions across Trentino, Alto 
Adige, Liguria, Germany, Austria, and England:
• Selected for the ARTPROTAGONIST 2015 exhibition, 
curated by ARTEFICIOLinea, held at Villa Contarini, 
Padova, 2015-2016.
• ARTITALY & ARTWORLD exhibition in Monaco, curated 
by Pamela Centro, artistic director of the Premio Art a 
Roma, 2014.
• LIGHT & SHADOWS exhibition in Milan, 2014.
• Art Roma award - Winner in the Arte Visive Primo Step 
category - Exhibition curated by Pamela Centro, artistic 
director of the Premio Art a Roma, 2014.
• “SENTIERI DI PENSIERI” exhibition in Vienna, 2014.
• LONDON ROYAL ART IN THE WORLD exhibition in 
London, 2014
• ”MENTAL ADVENTURES HAMBURG” exhibition, curated 
by Maurizio Pradella from ARTEFICIOLinea, 2014.
• COLLEZIONARTE exhibition in Turin, 2014.

Going in clockwise order, each player offers a painting for auction.
AUCTION
• The Auctioneer picks a card from their hand and places the painting face up in the center of the table.
	
Winning Bidder:
	
- If Buyer, pays Auctioneer.
	
- If Auctioneer, pays the Bank (If no bids were made, they get it for free).
• Players cannot bid more money than they have.
END OF A SEASON
• A season ends when the 5th painting of any artist is offered. This painting 
is not auctioned off, but is counted for determining the ranking of the artist. 
Same applies for both cards when a Double Auction is offered.
• Rank TOP 3 artists’ total sales
• Left-most artist wins in the case of any ties
• If artist is on TOP 3, add all previous season values
• All players sell all paitings by new price, even if worthless.
GENERAL RULES:
• Player closest to Auctioneer breaks ties (clockwise).
• Players keep leftover cards in hands from one season to the next.
• Sold paintings are not reused and are returned to the box.
• In the next season, the player to the left of the last Auctioneer starts.
GAME END
When the 4th season ends, the player with the most money WINS!
G A M E S U M M A R Y
TYPES OF AUCTIONS
OPEN AUCTIONS: Shout out bid, all players may bid in any order 
and any number of times. “GOING ONCE, GOING TWICE…”
ONE OFFER AUCTIONS: Turn order, one time bid. Each player 
can bid higher or pass. Auctioneer last to act.
HIDDEN AUCTIONS: Secret, in-hand bid with simultaneous 
reveal.
FIXED PRICE AUCTIONS: Auctioneer sets fixed price. Turn 
order, one time bid. Each player can buy or pass. Auctioneer 
last to act. If all players pass, the auctioneer must pay the bank 
for the painting.
DOUBLE AUCTIONS: Add a 2nd painting of same artist 
(cannot be another Double) auction type for both is the 2nd 
card type. If you can’t offer a 2nd card, it goes in order to 
offer. If no one offers a 2nd, Auctioneer gets the double card for free. 
If there is a 2nd painting, both paintings are auctioned and the 2nd 
Auctioneer gets all the money. (Variant: Divide money evenly, the 2nd 
Auctioneer gets the odd $1.) Play resumes to the left of 2nd Auctioneer. 
Players in the middle lose their turn.
If a player runs out of cards, they can’t offer a painting for auction 
but can still bid. If all players run out, the last offered painting ends 
the season and is not auctioned, but counts to the season total. 
Paintings are sold and the game ends.
By Reiner Knizia