Components
1 game board 
 
4 double-sided company tracks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(each consisting of 2 jigsaw pieces)
4 player boards (1 of each player color )
44 action cards
36 starting action cards
(9 of each player color )
4 “1”-expansion cards
4 track cards
Trade rivalry in the age
of chartered companies
for 2 to 4 players, aged 12 and up
Author: Alexander Pfister
Development and rule book: Viktor Kobilke
Illustrations: Klemens Franz, Andreas Resch
72 book tiles
10 starting tiles
4 bonus tiles
60 coins 40 x 1 pound 
 20 x 5 pounds
60 trading posts (15 each of the 4 colors) 
16 track markers (4 of each player color)
20 bonus markers (5 of each player color) 
4 ink jar markers 
 
 4 diamond markers
1 ﬁ rst player marker 
 1 scoring note pad 
 4 overview sheets
Game and History
In Mombasa, players acquire shares of chartered companies based in Mombasa, Cape Town, Saint-Louis and 
Cairo and spread their trading posts throughout the African continent in order to earn the most money.
Chartered companies were associations formed for the purpose of exploration, trade and colonization, which 
links them inextricably to a very dark chapter in human history: global colonialism. T is period lasted roughly 
from the 15th century to the middle of the 20th century and is associated with exploitation and slavery. 
Although Mombasa is loosely set within this time frame, it is not a historical simulation. It is a strategy game 
with an economic focus that roughly refers to historical categories and places them in a ﬁ ctional setting.
T e exploitation of the African continent and its people is not explicitly depicted within the game play.
If you want to learn more about the underlying history, we recommend the following read:
History of Modern Africa: 1800 to the Present by Richard J. Reid. (Blackwell Concise History of the Modern 
World). Wiley-Blackwell, Oxford.
Each track has an ID made up of a letter and a number (A1 to D2). 
Make sure when putting the tracks together that the ID in the lower 
lef corner of a track is the same as that in the lower right corner.

1 - 4
5 - 8
9 - 12
Place the game board in the
middle of the table.
Return the 4 track cards to the 
box. T ey are not needed for the 
ﬁ rst game. T en take the company 
tracks A1, B1, C1, D1 and place 
them at the edges of the game 
board as follows:
A1 at the black Mombasa edge,
B1 at the red Cape Town edge,
C1 at the white Saint-Louis edge,
D1 at the orange Cairo edge.
For the remainder of the game, 
each of these company tracks is 
now linked with its company: A1 
is called the Mombasa track, C1 is 
called the Saint-Louis track, etc.
1.
Place the 15 trading posts of each 
color onto the spaces of their
matching company bases: the
15 black trading posts in Mombasa, 
the red ones in Cape Town, the
white ones in Saint-Louis and the 
orange ones in 
Cairo. Make sure 
that each space 
of a company 
(and any coin 
icon on it) is 
covered with a 
trading post.
Company bases
Right
Middle
Lef 
Card display
Book display
Sort the 44 action cards by the letter 
in the upper right corner of each 
card (A,B,C,D,E).
Shuﬄ e the 4 cards of letter E and 
place them as a face-down stack next 
to the lower lef corner of the game 
board. T en shuﬄ e the 4 cards of 
letter D and place them face down 
on top of this stack.
Continue in this man-
ner with the 11 cards of 
letter C and the 16 cards 
of letter B. Finally place 
the 9 shuﬄ ed cards 
of letter A face down 
on top of this stack. 
T is stack is called the 
“action card stack”. Next to it, leave 
room for the action card discard 
pile.
Round track
Now ﬁ ll the 12 spaces of the card display 
with cards drawn from the top of the 
action card stack. First ﬁ ll the 4 spaces 
of the right column from top to bottom 
with one face-up card each, then do the 
same for the middle column and ﬁ nally 
for the lef column. If you did everything 
right, the card in the top space of the lef 
column should be a card of letter A, while 
the 3 cards below it should show letter B.
Place the coins (of values
1 and 5 pounds) as a supply 
next to the game board. T is 
supply is called “the bank”.
Now ﬁ ll spaces 2 to 7 of the round track with 
coins from the bank according to the number 
of players (space 1 is always lef empty):
In a 2-player game: Take 6 coins of value 1. 
Place one of them onto each of the 6 spaces of 
the round track.
In a 3-player game: Take 9 coins of value 1. 
Place a stack of 2 coins each onto the spaces 2, 
4 and 6 of the round track. T en place 1 coin 
each onto the spaces 3, 5 and 7.
In a 4-player game: Take 12 coins of value 1.
Place a stack of 2 coins onto each of the
6 spaces of the round track.
Sort the 72 book tiles by 
the letter on their back 
(A,B,C) and place them 
face down next to the
upper right side of the 
board as the book supply. 
T en ﬁ ll the 12 spaces 
of the book display by 
revealing 4 tiles of each 
letter and placing each face 
up onto a book space of its 
letter in the book display.
Setup of the first game
Place the 4 bonus tiles 
face up next to the right 
side of the game board.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Room for the
Action card discard pile
9.
Each player chooses a color and 
receives:
T e player board of that color, 
which he places in front of him 
(making sure that there is room 
below and above the player 
board).
T e 9 starting action cards 
of that color, which he takes 
concealed into his hand.
T e 4 track markers of that 
color, of which he places one 
onto each starting space of the 
4 company tracks.
1 diamond marker, which he 
places onto the diamond space 
of the diamond track on his 
player board.
1 ink jar marker 
 
(which he places below his 
player board for now).
1 pound from the bank 
(which he places next to his 
player board).
Each player also receives a 
number of bonus markers of 
his color (which he places next 
to his player board):
In a 2-player game: Each player 
receives 3 bonus markers.
In a 3- or 4-player game: Each
player receives 2 bonus markers.
Return the spare bonus markers to 
the box, they are only relevant in 
games that include the company 
track B2.
10.

Diamond 
Bookkeeping 
Diamond 
Resting slots
When you already know Mombasa, you 
can use a more variable setup in which 
steps 2 and 13 are carried out in a
diﬀ erent way:
As an investor, you try to earn the most money (pounds) by investing goods in chartered 
companies and spreading their trading posts from their company bases throughout the African 
continent. By investing goods you increase the number of shares you hold in those companies 
and by spreading their trading posts you increase the value of each share. Also, you can improve 
your earnings and prospects by building up diamond stocks and by clever bookkeeping.
During the game, you earn money which you usually need to pay for certain actions. 
 
T e main portion of pounds, however, you earn at the end of the game. 
 
 
T en your total is calculated by adding:
• the cash you have on hand
Determine a ﬁ rst player and give him the ﬁ rst player marker.
Give each player a speciﬁ c “1”-expansion card.
• T e ﬁ rst player receives the “1”-expansion card 
showing a in the upper right corner.
• T e player to his lef (the second player) receives the 
“1”-expansion card with the .
• T e third player (if any) receives the “1”-expansion 
card with the .
• T e fourth player (if any) receives the “1”-expansion 
card with the .
Each player adds his “1”-expansion card to his hand, 
bringing it to a total of 10 starting action cards.
Return any spare “1”-expansion cards to the box.
Setup of
subsequent games
Give each player in a clockwise order a 
speciﬁ c starting tile:
• T e ﬁ rst player receives this tile.
• T e player to his lef (the 
 
second player) receives this tile.
• T e third player (if any) receives this tile.
• T e fourth player (if any) receives this tile.
Return the spare starting tiles to the box.
Each starting tile shows the following:
• 3 icons in a row (each representing 
a certain starting action card)
• a starting book similar to the ones 
in the book display
• an ink jar icon
• the starting bonus of the player
Now, each player carries out the following steps:
Take the 4 track 
cards and shuﬄ e 
them face down. 
Place a random 
track card face 
down next to each 
edge of the board, 
making sure that 
1 of the 2 arrows 
is clearly pointing 
towards that edge. 
T en ﬂ ip the cards 
face up.
On each edge of the board place the 
company track indicated by the half of the 
card pointing towards that edge.
T en return the track cards to the box.
His starting bonus refers to 1 or 2 speciﬁ c tracks and the 
number of spaces the player must move forward on these 
tracks with his marker:
3 spaces on the Mombasa track
1. He places his starting tile face 
up onto the space with the 
envelope on his player board.
2. He places his ink jar marker 
onto the ink jar icon on this tile.
Object of the game
Company shares and their value
During the game, you can advance your marker on each company track. Whenever 
you reach or pass a space with a share icon, you own as many shares of that company 
as the icon shows. Also, some cards (which you can acquire during the game) may 
show an additional share of that company.
T e value of each share of a company is determined by the number of trading posts 
that have lef the company’s base: T e total number of coin icons revealed in its base 
equals the value of each share of that company. 
Example: Blue has a total of 7 shares of the Cape 
Town company: 5 shares on the Cape Town track and 
2 shares on his cards.
As each share has a value of 6 pounds (because
6 coin icons are visible in the company base), his 
Share icon
Coin icon
• the value of the shares you hold of each of the 4 companies
• the last value your diamond 
marker has passed on your 
diamond track
• the last value your ink jar 
marker has passed on your 
bookkeeping track
T e player with highest total wins the game.
11.
2.
13.
Shuﬄ e the 10 starting tiles and deal each 
player 2 face-down tiles. Return any spare 
starting tiles to the box.
Each player looks at his 2 tiles, secretly 
chooses one of them and returns the other 
one to the box.
T en players reveal their chosen tiles 
simultaneously.
14.
12.
13.
3. From his starting hand, he 
ﬁ nds the 3 cards indicated 
by the 3 icons in the lef 
corner of his starting 
tile. He places these 
cards face up above his 
player board, each card 
in one of the 
3 colored 
resting slots 
(in any order).
1 space on his diamond 
track AND 1 space on the 
Saint-Louis track
4. He receives his starting bonus.
shares of Cape Town are 
worth a total of 42 pounds
(7 shares x 6 coin icons = 42).

Playing the game
Resting slots
Action slots
Mombasa is played over 7 rounds. 
 
Each round consists of 3 phases. 
 
 
Phase 1: Planning phase
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 2: General action phase
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 3: Preparation phase for the next round
Af er the General action phase of round 7, the game ends with a ﬁ nal scoring phase.
1) Planning phase
Additional 
action slot
Additional 
action slot
Resting decks
T e Planning phase is carried out by all players simultaneously and comprises 2 steps: 
 
a) Each player plans his Action phase by placing cards face down in his action area
 
b) All players turn their placed cards face up
a) Place cards face down in your action area
Choose cards from your hand and place them face down in the available action slots of your action area (the area beneath 
your player board).
Note: You will use the cards in your action area during the General action phase. T us, the cards you place will determine to a 
certain extent which actions you can perform (see pages 5 to 8 for details of the cards and their actions).
At the start of the game, you have 3 action slots available (the 3 colored slots at the bottom of your player board).
Each available action slot can hold 1 card. T erefore, you can place up to 3 cards.
Later in the game, you may unlock one or even two additional action slots by reaching or passing certain spaces on your 
diamond track and your bookkeeping track (see the top of page 12 for details). With each unlocked additional slot, you may 
place 1 additional card from your hand during the Planning phase (so you could place up to 5 cards if you had unlocked 
both additional action slots.)
• T e card you place in each of your available action slots is up to you. However, there are certain things to consider: 
Each action slot is linked to the resting slot directly above it on top of your board. At the end of your action phase, you 
will move each card from its action slot up to the linked resting slot. T us over the rounds, in each resting slot a resting 
deck builds up (that comprises all cards previously played into its linked action slot). T e cards of the resting decks are 
inactive and cannot be used until they are recovered. However, each round, you can only return the cards of one of these 
resting decks to your hand (see “End your own action phase” on page 9). T us it can make quite a diﬀ erence in which 
action slots you place certain cards, as you want each of them to go onto the resting deck best suited for your plans. 
Note: In the Planning phases of round 6 and 7, however, it becomes irrelevant in which of your available action slots you 
place your chosen cards (because these cards cannot be returned to your hand before the end of the game.)
• You can always choose to place fewer cards than allowed.
b) Turn cards face up
As soon as all players are ﬁ nished placing their cards in their action area, turn all cards face up.
Action area
Each action slot is linked to the resting slot in 
the same vertical line.
2) General action phase
T e ﬁ rst player begins the General action phase by taking his turn. T en the player to his lef takes his 
turn, then the next player and so on. In this manner, the General action phase proceeds turn by turn in 
a clockwise direction until all players have dropped out of the General action phase. 
When it is your turn, you must perform exactly ONE of the following actions:
As soon as you perform the “End your own action phase” action, you drop out of the General action phase.
Once all players have performed the “End your own action phase” action, the General action phase ends.
Expansion cards
Diamond merchant 
cards
Bookkeeper cards
Goods cards
come in 3 types:
coﬀ ee, bananas, cotton
(each with a unit value of 
1, 2, 3 or 4 units)
1) Use 1 or more goods cards of one type in your action area (see page 5) 
2) Use all expansion cards in your action area (see pages 5 and 6)
3) Use 1 bookkeeper card in your action area (see page 7)
4) Use 1 diamond merchant card in your action area (see page 8)
5) Place 1 bonus marker (see page 8 and 9)
6) End your own action phase (see page 9)

Total unit value = 4 units
ue
nit
Unit value = 3 units
Unit value = 1 unit
red crate-values
card price (= 3 units)
val
d p i
(
Acquire 1 card from the card display
Acquire 1 card of your choice from the card display on the game board. Each card in the display has a speciﬁ c card price. 
T is price is composed of 2 values: the red crate-value of the card itself AND the red crate-value on the game board right 
next to it. T e sum of these 2 values is the card price which you must at least match with your total unit value. 
If your total unit value matches the card price, take the card from the display and place it in your hand.
If your total unit value exceeds the card price, take the card into your hand and use the remaining units to advance on
1 or more company tracks (see below).
Note: T e card display is not ﬁ lled up until the end of the round.
To perform this action, Blue could use:
• the single 1-unit coﬀ ee card
OR • the single 3-unit coﬀ ee card
OR • the 1-unit coﬀ ee card and the 3-unit 
coﬀ ee card combined to 
 
form a total unit value of 4 units
OR • the 2-unit cotton card
To perform this action, choose from the cards in your action area any number 
of face up goods cards which show the same type of good (coﬀ ee, bananas or 
cotton). You must choose at least one card, irrespective of how many goods cards 
of this type you have and which unit value each of them shows.
T e unit values of your chosen cards add up to form your total unit value, which 
you must use to:
• Acquire a maximum of 1 card from the card display AND/OR
• Advance on 1 or more company tracks with your track marker(s).
Note: Depending on which cards you 
placed in your action area during the 
Planning phase, some actions may 
not be possible (because you did not 
place the appropriate cards). If you 
do not have the appropriate card(s) 
to perform a certain action, you must 
choose a diﬀ erent action instead. (If 
you have nothing else to do, you must 
perform the “End your own action 
phase” action.)
On his turn, Blue may not 
perform the “Use 1 bookkeep-
Af er using his 
diamond merchant 
card, Blue ﬂ ips it 
face down. 
Important: Af er you have used a card for an action, you must ﬂ ip it 
face down (to indicate that you have used it). Flipped cards cannot be 
used any more.
er card” action as 
he has not placed a 
bookkeeper in his ac-
tion area. (T e book-
keeper of his middle 
resting deck does not 
count, of course, as it 
is inactive.)
1) Use 1 or more goods cards of one type in your action area
With this action you can acquire new cards from the card display and advance your track markers on the company tracks.
Advance on 1 or more company tracks
Use your total unit value (or the remaining units if you acquired a card) to advance on company tracks. For each goods unit, move one of your track markers 
1 space forward. Do so until you have used up all units. You can split up your units in any way you want, using all of them on the same company track or 
dividing them among diﬀ erent tracks. (See page 11 for details on the company tracks.)
Once you used all units of your total unit value, ﬂ ip each card that added to this total unit value face down. T en your turn ends.
Blue uses a total 
unit value of
4 units
(by combining the 
1-unit coﬀ ee card 
and the 3-unit coﬀ ee 
card).
For a card price of 3 units, he 
acquires the 2-unit banana 
card from the display and puts 
it into his hand. As he has
1 unit lef , he uses this unit to 
advance 1 space on a company 
track of his choice.
Finally, he 
ﬂ ips the
used coﬀ ee 
cards in his 
action area 
face down.
2) Use all expansion cards in your action area
To perform this action, you must use all expansion cards in your action area at once. You may not keep any of them for a later turn.
Each expansion card shows in its helmet icon a number of expansion points (1, 2 or 3). Add up the expansion points of all expansion 
cards in your action area. T e result is your total expansion value, which you must use to expand just 1 company. Which company you 
expand is up to you (but you may not divide your total expansion value among more than 1 company). 
Total expansion value = 5 expansion points
3 expansion 
points
2 expansion 
points
Note: It is irrelevant if any of the expansion cards you use show in their lower lef corner an additional company share of any company. T ese 
additional company shares only become relevant in the ﬁ nal scoring phase. You can ignore them while expanding a company.
With this action you can expand the companies by placing their trading posts in the regions of the map on the game board. 

Columns
Currently 
foremost 
trading 
posts
Final 
spaces
Possible spaces for 
the next returned 
black trading post 
Enclave region
Surrounding region
Single line borders
bo
b
Double line borders
Region
Rewards
Once you have used up your total expansion value, carry out the following steps:
1. Collect the rewards of each region you entered. Take the rewards in any order 
you like (irrespective of the order in which you actually entered the regions).
First, choose a company. T en spend your expansion points to enter new regions with trading posts taken from that company’s base. 
T e 24 regions of the map are separated from one another by single line borders or double line borders. Depending on which border 
you cross, entering a region consumes either 1, 2 or 3 expansion points (see below for details). Once you have spent your total
expansion value, your receive the rewards of the regions you have entered and your turn ends.
Take the depicted number of pounds from the bank.
Move your diamond marker the depicted number 
of spaces forward on your diamond track. (Ignore 
the mine icons below the diamond icons as they are 
only relevant for diamond merchants.)
Move your track marker the depicted number of 
spaces forward on the company track belonging to 
the company you just expanded.
Use the combined number of bookkeeping points 
of the entered regions to immediately acquire books 
from the book display and/or coins from the bank. 
(See next page on how to use bookkeeping points in 
detail.)
2. Oust all trading posts of other companies that are present in the regions you 
entered (if any). Return each of these trading posts to an empty space of its 
company base. If applicable, you may choose in which column to place a 
returned trading post. However, within this column, it must be placed onto 
the rearmost empty space. T ere is one exception: Once a column’s ﬁ nal 
space (the 5th space on the rear end of a column) is empty, that space cannot 
be covered again. T us, when you return a trading post to an entirely empty 
column, it must be placed onto the space in front of the ﬁ nal space.
3. Once any ousted trading posts have been returned to their company bases (there 
can be no more than one trading post in each region now), tip over the upended 
trading posts, so that they all stand up appropriately (with the roof op up).
4. Finally, ﬂ ip all expansion cards in your action area face down. T en your turn ends.
Possible rewards of the regions:
Further Notes and special cases:
• On the map, there are 2 enclave regions. Each of them is entirely surrounded by another region. T us, before you can enter an enclave region, 
 
 
 
 
you must ﬁ rst have entered its surrounding region. (T e 2 surrounding regions are the only ones on the map without any rewards).
• If there are no trading posts lef in a company base, this company cannot be expanded until trading posts are returned by ousting. 
 
 
 
 
 
If a company base runs out of trading posts while you expand it, you must forfeit any remaining expansion points.
• If you need to return an ousted trading post to its company base but there is no valid empty space lef , remove the trading post from the game entirely.
• If you only have one expansion card in your action area and its expansion points are not suﬃ cient to enter any region you want, you must forfeit the 
 
 
action entirely and ﬂ ip the card face down.
• In each column of a company base, the ﬁ nal space is the most valuable as it shows 2 coin icons and cannot be covered again. T us, when expanding a company, it is usually 
advisable to empty a column entirely before starting to empty the next column. However, if you have good reasons, emptying the columns evenly is also a viable option.
• It does not matter if a trading post in a region has any connection to its company base whatsoever, you are still allowed to enter a region adjacent to this trading post’s region.
• Company bases are not regions and thus cannot be entered.
To enter a region, carry out the following steps:
1. Choose a region that is directly accessible to the expanding company. A region is directly 
accessible if it is adjacent to either the expanding company’s base OR to any region that contains 
a trading post of the expanding company. (Important: You may choose to enter a region that 
contains a trading post of another company. It must, however, not contain a trading post of the 
expanding company itself.) 
2. Check how many expansion points it consumes to enter the region (going out from the adjacent 
base/region of the expanding company). If you only have to cross a single line border to enter 
it, it consumes 1 expansion point. If you have to cross a double line border, it consumes 
2 expansion points. And if there is already a trading post of another company in the region, 
entering it consumes 1 additional expansion point.
3. If you have enough expansion points to enter the region, 
take 1 trading post from a space of the expanding 
company’s base to place in the region. Each company base 
comprises 3 columns with 5 spaces each. From which 
column you take the trading post is up to you. However, 
within its column, this trading post must be currently the 
foremost (the one closest to the center of the map).
4. Place the trading post in the region. However, place it on its 
slender side, so that it stands on edge. 
 
 
 
(T is is to mark that you have entered the 
 
 
region but have not yet received its rewards.)
Repeat the previous steps for entering a region until your total expansion value is used up. If you 
cannot or do not want to use up all expansion points, you must forfeit any excess. 
Next he chooses to enter region , which, again, consumes 1 expansion point (for 
crossing the single line border ). Again, he marks this with a trading post (II) 
taken from the company base.
Finally he enters region , which consumes his remaining 3 expansion points
(2 for crossing the double line border and 1 additional because a black trading 
post of Mombasa is already in this region). T en Blue also marks this region by 
placing a trading post (III) from the company base in it.
Blue uses his total of 5 expansion points to 
expand the Cape Town company.
First he enters region , which consumes 
1 expansion point, as he has to cross the 
single line border to reach it. He marks 
entering the region by taking a trading 
post (I) from the company base and
placing it on its side in the region.

Requirements
Reward
3) Use 1 bookkeeper card in your action area
With this action you may advance your ink jar marker on your bookkeeping track. T is may give you various rewards.
Before you learn about the “Use 1 bookkeeper card” action (which is used to advance your ink jar marker on your bookkeeping track), you ﬁ rst need to know about 
book tiles and bookkeeping points:
Your ink jar marker can only enter the spaces of your bookkeeping track if there are book tiles on them. T is means that in order to move forward on your 
bookkeeping track at all, you must gradually ﬁ ll its spaces with books from the book display. (Each player already starts with1 book on his starting tile.)
Bookkeeping points
To acquire books from the book display, you need bookkeeping points. You might get bookkeeping points when expanding a company (see the previous page), 
when using a bookkeeper or through certain bonuses. However, you must use any bookkeeping point rewards when you receive them. T ere is no way of 
saving bookkeeping points up for later!
Expanding a company, Blue has entered
3 regions that each give a bookkeeping point 
reward of .
As he collects his rewards, he uses this total of 
3 bookkeeping points to take 2 A-books from 
the book display and 1 pound from the bank. 
Example (continued):
At the end of his turn, Blue places the 
acquired books onto his bookkeeping 
track. T en he reﬁ lls the 2 empty 
spaces of the book display with 
A-books from the book supply.
Each bookkeeping point reward comprises a total number of bookkeeping points. You can split this total number of 
 
 
 
bookkeeping points between any of the following uses (each costing a speciﬁ c number of bookkeeping points):
• Take 1 A-book from the book display (costs: 1 bookkeeping point)
• Take 1 B-book from the book display (costs: 1 bookkeeping point)
• Take 1 C-book from the book display (costs: 2 bookkeeping points)
• Take 1 pound from the bank (costs: 1 bookkeeping point)
At the end of you turn, af er you have used up all the bookkeeping points of your reward(s), carry out
the following two steps if you acquired at least 1 book: 
 
1. Place the acquired books onto the spaces of your bookkeeping track. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basically, you may place each book onto any space of the track. However, there are a few things to consider:
• You are not allowed to place an A-book onto an empty space that shows a crossed out A. (Only B- and C-books may be placed onto these spaces.)
• Obviously, you need books if you want to advance on your bookkeeping track. How this is done in particular is described below. For now, you 
just need to know that in their upper part the books show requirements which you must meet with the cards in your action area. T e better the 
requirements of the diﬀ erent books ﬁ t together, the easier it is for you to fulﬁ ll several of the books at once and advance quicker on the track. 
Since you cannot skip empty spaces, it usually is advisable to ﬁ ll the spaces of the track from front to back. However, planning ahead and trying to 
place books with similar requirements next to each other can be a good reason to sometimes place books farther up the track.
• Once you have placed a book onto a space, you have no way of removing it again (though you may be able to ﬂ ip it - see below).
• If necessary, you are allowed to place a newly acquired book on top of a book that is already on your track. However, you may never cover a 
B-book or C-book with an A-book.
2. Fill each empty space of the book display with a face-up book tile that you draw from the book supply of the appropriate letter.
To perform this action, carry out the following steps:
1. Before moving your ink jar marker, you may ﬂ ip 1 book on your track face down. For this you 
must pay 2 pounds to the bank. (However, this action is mostly meant as a last resort.)
2. Move your ink jar marker forward on your bookkeeping track. You may move it as far as you can and 
want, but you have to consider the following things:
• You must move the ink jar marker forward book by book. Before you can enter a book, however, 
you have to check whether you meet its requirements. Each book shows in its upper half 1 or 2 
requirements. T ese requirements refer to the cards which you currently have face up in your 
action area. For each requirement, you must check whether the total value of the cards of this 
type in your action area matches or exceeds the total value required. (T e order in which the 
requirements are depicted on the tile is irrelevant.) If you meet all requirements of a book, you may 
enter it. T en you must check whether you meet the next book’s requirements. Again, if you do, you 
may move forward, and so on. T is means each book is regarded separately. T e requirements of the books are not 
cumulative. Also, the cards used to meet the requirements are not used up. So you do not ﬂ ip them. 
Flipped book tiles can simply be entered as they have no requirements. Empty spaces of the bookkeeping track can 
never be entered.
• If you cannot or do not want to move any farther, leave your ink jar marker on the current book tile. T en you 
receive the reward of this (and only this) book tile on which you stopped. Flipped book tiles give no reward. If you 
did not move at all, you don’t get any reward either.
3. Af er you have ﬁ nished moving your ink jar marker forward (even if you did not move at all), 
 
use the total number of bookkeeping points depicted on the bookkeeper card as usual.
Blue uses the bookkeeper in his action area. First, he chooses to 
pay 2 pounds and to ﬂ ip the book that requires him to have at 
least a total expansion value of 2 in his action area (which 
he does not have).
T en he moves his ink jar marker forward, checking each book 
to see if he meets the requirements to enter it (i.e. if the total 
value required is present in his action area).
He ﬁ nally stops on the fourth book (as he cannot meet the 
requirements of the subsequent book). For this, he receives the 
fourth book’s reward (2 bookkeeping points). Af er using these 
2 bookkeeping points, he uses the 2 bookkeeping points of his 
bookkeeper. T en he ﬂ ips the bookkeeper and his turn ends.
Af erwards, ﬂ ip the used bookkeeper card face down. T en your turn ends.
For a list of special requirements and rewards, see the section “Overview of selected icons” on page 12.
Attention: If you are planning on using a bookkeeper in order to move forward on your bookkeeping 
track, make sure that you do that before using any required cards in your action area for other actions. 
Once ﬂ ipped, they are not valid for the requirements any more.

Mine icon
Majority
bonus spaces
Bonus tile spaceses
Bonus spaces
4) Use 1 diamond merchant card in your action area
With this action you advance your diamond marker on your diamond track and collect a few pounds.
Note: Diamond merchants are the only cards which you don’t have in your starting hand.
T ere are 5 diamond merchants in total which you can acquire from the card display during the game. 
To perform this action, use 1 of the diamond merchant cards in your action area.
Blue uses the
Cairo diamond
merchant to move his
diamond marker the normal 
2 spaces forward and to take 1 pound from the bank. T en he 
checks the regions controlled by the Cairo company for mine icons. 
As he spots a total of 3 mine icons, he moves his diamond marker 
1 additional space forward. (If it were 4 mine icons, he could have 
moved it 2 additional spaces forward.)
If you 
use this 
diamond 
merchant, 
move your 
diamond marker
1 space forward on 
your diamond track 
AND take 2 pounds 
from the bank.
If you use this Cairo diamond merchant, ﬁ rst move your diamond marker
2 spaces forward on your diamond track AND take 1 pound from the bank. 
T en check whether you may move additional spaces forward on your 
diamond track. To do this, check how many mine icons are present in those 
regions that are controlled by the Cairo company (i.e. each region that contains 
an orange trading post). For every 2 mine icons that the Cairo company controls, 
move your diamond marker 1 additional space forward on your diamond track.
For each company, there is 1 diamond merchant that functions 
like the Cairo diamond merchant.
Af er you used your diamond merchant, ﬂ ip it face down. T en your turn ends.
5) Place 1 bonus marker
With this action you can place 1 of your bonus markers onto an empty bonus space, which gives you certain privileges or rewards.
To perform this action, take 1 of the bonus markers in front of you and place it onto an empty bonus space.
Usually each bonus space states a requirement/cost which you have to meet/pay in order to place your marker onto it.
Depending on the space, you either receive its reward immediately or reserve for yourself a certain bonus tile for the next round.
Once you have placed a bonus marker, it blocks that bonus space for the rest of the round.
On the game board, you can ﬁ nd the following bonus spaces:
You are not allowed to place 
your bonus marker onto this 
bonus space if you are the 
ﬁ rst player AND this is your 
very ﬁ rst turn of a round.
(In later turns, you may 
place your marker here.)
Immediately take 
the ﬁ rst player 
marker (i.e. you will 
be the ﬁ rst player 
of the next round). 
T is is the only 
way the ﬁ rst player 
changes in the game.
Also use
1 bookkeeping 
point.
Pay 1 pound to 
the bank.
Immediately buy 1 card from the card 
display by paying its entire card price 
in pounds to the bank. (T is is the only 
way to acquire cards for money instead 
of goods.) Take the card into your hand.
Example: Af er Blue has placed his bonus mark-
er onto this bonus space and has paid 1 pound 
for it, he acquires the 2-unit coﬀ ee card from the 
card display by paying 3 pounds to the bank.
Remove 1 card from 
your hand (and only 
your hand) by placing it 
face up onto the action 
card discard pile. T is 
card is entirely out of 
your card stock.
Immediately take a number of 
pounds from the bank equal 
to the red crate-value of the 
removed card + 2. 
Example: Blue removes 
the 1-unit coﬀ ee card 
from his hand and 
discards it. For this,
he receives 3 pounds 
from the bank. 
You are only allowed 
to place your bonus 
marker onto this bonus 
space if currently 
no other player has a 
higher total unit value 
of coﬀ ee face up in his 
action area than you (a 
tie is suﬃ cient).
• If you have a total unit value of 1 or 
2 coﬀ ee, move your marker on the 
Cairo track 2 spaces forward.
• If you have a total unit value of 3 or 
4 coﬀ ee, move your marker on the 
Cairo track 3 spaces forward.
• If you have a total unit value of 5 or 
more coﬀ ee, move your marker on 
the Cairo track 4 spaces forward 
AND remove a trading post from a 
company base of your choice. (See 
page 12 for details of this reward).
Important: T is does not use up the 
cards in your action area. (So do not 
ﬂ ip them!)
Any of the 4 majority bonus spaces works like 
the coﬀ ee majority bonus space: You may only 
place your bonus marker onto a majority bonus 
space if you currently have the majority or at 
least the shared majority of the required type 
(goods units/expansion points) face up in your 
action area.
Depending on your total value of the respective 
type, you gain a certain reward which includes 
moving forward on a speciﬁ c company track
and may include an additional reward
(like using 1 bookkeeping point,
taking 1 pound, etc.).
Majority bonus spaces
Example: In a 2-player game, Blue 
wants to place one of his bonus 
markers onto the banana majority 
bonus space. First, he checks whether 
If you want, you can always choose the reward 
of a lesser total value than you actually have (for 
example, even if you have 6 units of cotton in 
your action area, you still may take the “4+” cot-
ton reward instead of the “6+” cotton reward.)
he is allowed
to do so. Since 
he has a total 
unit value of
5 bananas
in his action 
area and 
Green has only 
a total unit value of 3 bananas, he 
is allowed to place his marker.
For this, he immediately moves
3 spaces forward on the Cape Town 
track and 1 space forward on his 
diamond track. 

6) End your own action phase
Pay to the bank the 
number of pounds 
shown on the space 
(1 or 2).
T ere is no immediate eﬀ ect. You simply reserve the respective bonus tile for the 
next round. You are not allowed to take it right away!
As this icon indicates, you get the bonus tile in the “Preparation phase for the 
next round”.
See below on how to use each bonus tile.
Perform this action only if you cannot or do not want to perform any of the other actions. With this, you entirely drop out of the General action phase of this round.
Note: If you have any unused cards or bonus tiles in your action area, use those instead of performing this action. You cannot take any of them into the next round.
To perform this action, carry out the following 2 steps:
1. First, pick up exactly 1 of your resting decks. In the ﬁ rst round, each resting deck comprises only one card. Later, resting decks may comprise several cards. Take all 
cards of your chosen resting deck into your hand.
2. T en, clean up your action area. Do this by turning the cards of your action area face up again and then moving each card from its action slot up to its linked resting 
deck. If there are already cards in the respective resting deck, slide the new card in from behind, creating an overlapping column in which the top of each card is visible.
If you have any bonus tiles, return them to the right side of the game board.
Note: Since you pick up 1 resting deck before each new Planning phase, having all potential cards visible is crucial for planning ahead eﬀ ectively.
Blue ends his own 
action phase. 
First he must 
pick up 1 resting 
deck to return 
to his hand. He 
chooses the resting 
deck in which he 
has gathered his 
expansion
cards.
T en he ﬂ ips the 
cards in his action 
area face up.
Finally, he 
moves each card 
from its action 
slot to the linked 
resting deck 
and returns 
the diamond 
merchant-card 
tile to the right 
side of the game 
board. For Blue, 
the General 
action phase has 
ended.
Players who have performed their “End your own action phase” action are skipped for the rest of the General action phase. Once the last remaining player has performed the 
“End your own action phase” action, continue with the “Preparation phase for the next round”. Af er the General action phase of round 7, continue with the ﬁ nal scoring phase. 
Bonus tile spaces
T e bonus tiles
If you reserved a bonus tile via its bonus tile space, 
you get this bonus tile during the “Preparation phase 
for the next round”. (If you reserved more than
1 bonus tile, you get all bonus tiles you reserved, of 
course.) T ere are 4 bonus tiles in total:
one “+1”-goods tile and three action card tiles
(1 bookkeeper-card tile, 1 diamond merchant-card 
tile, 1 expansion-card tile).
T e big advantage of the action card bonus tiles 
is: T ey count as regular action cards but do not 
take up an action slot of your action area. T ey are 
additional to the cards of your available action slots 
and are placed in your action area a little set oﬀ . 
Once again: T ey count for all intents and purposes 
as action cards of their respective type and are used 
like the regular cards of that type. Af er they are used, 
they are ﬂ ipped face down as usual. 
Bookkeeper-card tile
Diamond merchant-card tile
Expansion-card tile
“+1”-goods tile
When you receive the “+1”-goods tile, place it next to your player board and hold it there until the 
General action phase of the round. During any of your own turns of the General action phase, you 
T is bookkeeper 
is used the same 
way as any other 
bookkeeper
(but grants only 
1 bookkeeping 
point).
When you use this Diamond merchant, 
ﬁ rst move 2 spaces forward on your 
diamond track. T en move 1 additional 
space for each further diamond merchant 
card that is currently face up in your 
action area (excluded this diamond 
merchant-card tile).
T e expansion-
card tile is used 
like any other 
expansion card 
and has an 
expansion value 
of “2”.
may then take the “+1”-goods tile and place it onto the lower part of any face-up goods card in your action area. 
From then on, the unit value of this goods card is increased by 1 unit (of that type) for all intents and purposes.
• Once placed, you are not allowed to move the “+1”-goods tile to another goods card.
• Af er you have used the goods card with the tile, ﬂ ip both face down.
• You cannot use the tile independently from a goods card.
T is card counts as 
a 3-unit coﬀ ee card

3 - 6
x
3) Preparation phase for the next round
Carry out the following steps: 
a) Move coins from the round track to the book display
 
 
 
 
b) Fill up the card display
 
 
 
 
c) Return the bonus markers to the players (including possible bonus tiles)
a) Move coins from the round track to the book display
On each of spaces 2 to 7 of the round track there is a coin stack that comprises either 1 or 2 coins (depending on the number of players). 
Now, move the coins of the lef most coin stack down to the wooden spaces of the book display located vertically below it (these wooden spaces 
show the same digit as the space from which you took the coin stack). If it is only 1 coin, move it to the wooden space of the ﬁ rst row. If there are 
2 coins, move one coin to the ﬁ rst and one coin to the second row.
Each coin moved to the book display is now linked to the book right above it. If a player acquires that book, he receives the coin in addition.
T e revealed number on the round track indicates which round you are about to enter.
b) Fill up the card display
First, remove all remaining cards (if any) from spaces in the right column and place them onto the action card discard 
pile. Af er that, in each row of the display there should be either two, one or no cards lef . In rows with two cards, move 
these cards together over to the right (ﬁ lling the right and middle space of that row). If there is only one card lef in a 
row, move it to the right space of that row. Finally, ﬁ ll each empty space of the card display with a face-up card from the 
action card stack: First ﬁ ll the empty spaces of the right column from top to bottom (if any). T en ﬁ ll the empty spaces of 
the middle column from top to bottom (if any). Finally, ﬁ ll the empty spaces of the lef column from top to bottom.
If the action card stack is empty, the remaining empty spaces are not ﬁ lled up any more.
c) Return the bonus markers to the players (including possible bonus tiles)
Each player takes back his bonus markers from any bonus spaces and places them 
next to his player board. If he takes a marker back from a bonus tile space, he 
also takes the respective bonus tile and places it face up in his action area. (T e 
“+1”-goods tile, however, is placed next to his player board).
T en the next round begins with the Planning phase.
End of the game
Af er the General action phase of round 7, the game ends. Now, the ﬁ nal scoring phase takes place as follows:
First, each player returns all his inactive cards to his hand by picking up all his resting decks. T en he ﬁ nds from his hand all cards 
 
that show an additional company share in their lower lef corner. He sorts these cards by company and places them in front of him.
Now, take the included scoring note pad. Go step by step through the 7 scoring categories and write down 
 
 
 
 
how much each player scores in each category:
First, write down the cash (the number of pounds of actual coins) each player has in front of him.
T en turn to the Mombasa company and calculate for each player the number of pounds he scores for his shares of Mombasa.
To do this, count the number of uncovered coin icons in Mombasa’s company base AND multiply this number by the total 
 
number of shares which the respective player owns of Mombasa. Write the individual result of each player down.
Reminder: A player’s total number of shares of a company is equal to the last share icon that he has reached or passed with his marker on that 
company’s track + each additional share of that company he has on his cards (see also section “Object of the game” on page 3).
Once you have written down the result for each player regarding his Mombasa shares, repeat the whole procedure for the 
 
Cape Town company, then for the Saint-Louis company and ﬁ nally for the Cairo company.
T e last 8 cards of the action card stack are single share cards. Depending on how frequently the players have acquired cards from the display during the game, these 
single share cards enter the display sooner or later (or not at all). Each of these cards only represents a single additional share of a speciﬁ c company. Once acquired, a 
single share card remains in the hand of its player till the ﬁ nal scoring phase. It can never be placed in an action slot (as there is no action associated with it).
Single share cards
Check on the player board of each player how far he has advanced his diamond marker
on his diamond track: Write down the last value which his diamond marker has passed.
Check on the player board of each player how far he has advanced his ink jar marker on
his bookkeeping track: Write down the last value which his ink jar marker has passed.
Any marker that has not advanced far enough to score is ignored. Also book tiles (no matter if the
ink jar marker has entered them or not) are not worth anything now.
Af er you have written down everything, add up the scores of the 7 categories for each player.
T e player with highest score (who has earned the most money) wins the game. In the case of a tie, the victory is shared.

Each company track has one or two capital calls. Whenever you move one of your track marker from one space to the next and cross a capital call in the 
process, you must immediately pay the depicted number of pounds to the bank. Otherwise, your track marker must remain on the space before the capital 
call. If you reach the last space of a track, your track marker remains there for the rest of the game.
If you use a reward that allows you to move forward on a speciﬁ c track and you cannot use it completely (because of a capital call which you cannot pay or 
the end of the track), move your marker as far as possible (if at all) and forfeit the rest. 
Capital call
Special space
First special track bonus
Second special track bonus
Your total expansion 
value in your action area is 
increased by 1 or 2 for all 
You have 1 or 2 additional 
bonus markers of your 
color which you can 
Each time you acquire 
a card from the card 
display by using 
banana goods cards 
as a payment, the card 
price is reduced by 1.
Each time you acquire a card from the 
card display using goods cards, the card 
price is reduced by 1. As a payment for 
that card you may even use diﬀ erent types 
of goods cards (and then use any excess 
units to advance on company tracks). 
Each time you acquire a 
card from the card display 
by using cotton goods 
cards as a payment, the 
card price is reduced by 1.
T e unit value of each cotton goods 
card in your action area is increased 
by 1 for all intents and purposes. (T is 
applies to each cotton card, not just 
the total unit value of cotton.)
Reward: Immediately use 1 bookkeeping point AND move 2 spaces 
forward with your diamond marker on your diamond track.
OR: Use 2 bookkeeping points AND move 1 space forward on your 
diamond track.
Reward: Immediately buy 1 card from the card 
display by paying its entire card price in pounds to 
the bank (take the card into your hand) AND/OR 
move 1 space forward on your diamond track.
Requirement: Remove 
1 card from your hand 
by placing it face up 
onto the action card 
discard pile.
Immediately take a 
number of pounds 
from the bank 
equal to the red 
crate-value of the 
removed card + 3. 
Reward: Immediately buy 1 card from the card display 
by paying its card price (reduced by 1) in pounds to the 
bank (take the card into your hand) AND/OR move
2 spaces forward on your diamond track.
Requirement: Remove
1 coﬀ ee goods card from 
your hand by placing it 
face up onto the action 
card discard pile.
Immediately
take a number of 
pounds from the 
bank equal to the red 
crate-value of the 
removed card + 8. 
Reward: Immediately move your track markers 
on 2 diﬀ erent company tracks (other than track 
D2) 2 spaces forward each.
Reward: Immediately move your track 
markers on each of the other 3 company 
tracks (excluding track D2) 2 spaces forward.
Reward: Immediately use 
2 bookkeeping points AND 
move 2 spaces forward on 
your diamond track.
Permanent bonuses
Extra bonus spaces
intents and purposes (expanding a company, majority bonus spaces, 
book requirements, etc.). However, this bonus takes only eﬀ ect if you 
have at least 1 expansion card in your action area.
place as usual. (Take these bonus markers from the ones that where 
returned to the box during setup.)
Pay to the bank the number of pounds shown.
Requirement: None.
Pay 1 pound to the bank.
Details of the company tracks and their bonuses
Example: Blue moves 2 spaces 
forward on the track and passes 
the ﬁ rst special space. For this, he 
immediately receives 1 pound from 
the bank. Since Green and Yellow 
Each company track has 2 special spaces. As soon as you reach or pass such a 
special space with your track marker, you immediately receive from the bank 
the number of pounds depicted above the special space (1 or 2).
Important: Each player that reaches or passes a special space receives the 
depicted amount. However, when he reaches or passes it, all players who 
already reached or passed that space before that player also receive the 
depicted amount from the bank yet again.
already have reached that special space before Blue, they also 
receive 1 pound each from the bank yet again.
As soon as you reach or pass a special space, you also unlock its special track bonus. T is special track bonus will take eﬀ ect from your next turn onward 
(i.e. if you unlock it in the middle of an action, you cannot use this bonus while still carrying out that action).
T ere are 2 types of special track bonuses: Permanent bonuses and extra bonus spaces. Permanent bonuses can only be found on tracks A and B, while the 
extra bonus spaces can be found on tracks C and D. If you have unlocked a permanent bonus, you may use it each time you perform an action for which the 
bonus is relevant. Extra bonus spaces work exactly like the bonus spaces on the game board (i.e. you use them with the “Place 1 bonus marker” action). 
Each track has 2 special track bonuses. T e second special track bonus of any company track usually is an improved version of the ﬁ rst one.
Important: If you have managed to unlock the second special track bonus of a company track, you are entitled to EITHER use that second OR its ﬁ rst 
special track bonus, but you may never use both. In the case of the permanent bonuses this means: T e ﬁ rst and second special track bonuses of a track are 
never cumulative. In the case of the extra bonus spaces this means: Each round you may only use one of the bonus spaces of that track. So, if one of your 
bonus markers is already on one of the two bonus spaces, you are not allowed to place a second marker onto the other.

Winner 2011
We wish to thank all 
testplayers, especially 
Michael Gantner, 
Gerhard Heinzle, 
Peter Hof auer, 
Wolfgang Lehner, 
Stefan Widerin, 
Franziska Molter, 
Regina Molter, 
Andreas Molter,
Ole Schlaack, and
the Spielekreis Wien. 
Special thanks go 
to the Hippodice 
Spieleclub e.V. and its 
designers competition.
General game notes and some further special cases:
• When acquiring a card from the card display, you 
must always use at least 1 goods card to do so (even 
if the card price is zero). However, if the card price 
is actually zero, you can use all units of that total 
unit value to advance on company tracks. Any card 
price can never drop below zero (even if a special 
track bonus would make it do so).
• When you buy a card for pounds via a bonus 
marker space and its card price is zero (it cannot 
drop below zero), you do not have to pay any 
pounds to take it. (But you still have to pay the 
possible cost of the bonus space itself.)
• You may not keep your money hidden.
• T e supply of coins is considered unlimited. If you 
should run out of coins, use something else as a 
replacement.
• If the book supply of a certain letter should run out, 
empty spaces of that letter in the book display are 
not ﬁ lled up any more.
Once your diamond 
marker reaches or 
passes this space on 
your diamond track, 
the additional action 
slot beneath it is 
unlocked. You may 
use this slot during 
all following Planning 
Once your ink jar 
marker reaches or 
passes the book tile on
this space of your 
bookkeeping track, the 
additional action slot 
beneath it is unlocked. 
You may use this slot 
during all following 
Planning phases (see 
section “Planning 
phase” on page 4).
phases (see section “Planning phase” on page 4).
If your ink jar marker reaches the book tile on the
ﬁ nal space of the track, it remains there. However, 
from now on, take 2 pounds from the bank for each 
bookkeeping point you receive as a reward. (You are no 
longer allowed to use your bookkeeping point rewards 
in any other way than this.)
Special spaces of the player boards
If your diamond marker reaches the ﬁ nal diamond space, 
it remains there. However, from now on, when you receive 
any rewards that allow you to move forward on your dia-
mond track, you receive instead 2 pounds from the bank 
for each space you would have moved forward.
Overview of selected icons
Author: Alexander Pﬁ ster | Illustrations: Klemens Franz, Andreas Resch
Development, rule book and layout: Viktor Kobilke | Rule book revision: Neil Crowley
Copyright: © 2015 eggertspiele GmbH & Co. KG, Friedhofstr. 17, 21073 Hamburg, Germany
All rights reserved. | www.eggertspiele.de
Distribution: Pegasus Spiele GmbH, Am Straßbach 3, 61169 Friedberg, Germany | www.pegasus.de
Credits
To meet this requirement, you need to 
have at least 1 unit of cotton face up in 
your action area.
If you stop on this book with your ink jar marker, you receive from the bank 
a number of pounds equal to the total unit value of cotton that you have 
face up in your action area reduced by 1. (For example, if your total unit 
value of cotton is 6, you receive 5 pounds, if it is 1, you receive nothing). 
To meet this requirement, you need to 
have at least a total of 4 units of one good 
face up in your action area (either 4 units 
of cotton or 4 units of bananas or 
4 units of coﬀ ee). 
Remove 1 trading post from a company base of your choice. However, 
the trading post you remove must currently be the foremost in its 
column. Take the trading post completely out of the game.
To meet these requirements, you need to have at 
least 3 units of coﬀ ee AND at least 3 further units 
of one good face up in your action area.
(You meet the requirements if you have at least:
 
3 coﬀ ee units and 3 cotton units
OR 
3 coﬀ ee units and 3 banana units
OR 
6 coﬀ ee units). 
To meet this requirement, you need to have at least
1 diamond merchant card OR 1 bookkeeper card face 
up in your action area. Attention: T e required
bookkeeper must, of course, be in your action area in 
addition to the bookkeeper you currently use to move 
your ink jar marker forward (otherwise, the require-
ment would always be met).
Pay the depicted number of 
pounds to the bank.
Take the depicted number of 
pounds from the bank.
Move your diamond marker 
the depicted number of spaces 
forward on your diamond track.
Use the depicted number of 
bookkeeping points to acquire 
books from the book display 
and/or coins from the bank.
Remove 2 trading posts (from the same or 2 diﬀ erent company bases).