For 2 to 8 Players I AGES 8+ " 
.ooo,ooo SALAR 
A5 YOU PASS 

, n unemployed Charles B. Darrow df Germantown, 
vania, changed history. The ~epressionwas in full swing 
's dreams of 
were quickly1 fading. It was 
Darrow developed a game, which woqd allow people to 
ce the thrill of becoming instant milliopaires by buying, 
renting and selling property. But how could he pake it relevant to 
the times? Ah yes! It must be Atlantic City, the qremiere vacation 
destination of the early 1900s. And so, adoptin the street names 
gi 
from around the city, he developed what is still old today as 
MONOPOLY. 
Now more than 70 years later, history is again 
MONOPOLY HERE & NOW Edition offers 
become the billionaire you've always 
longer the streets of Atlantic City that are on thd auction block. 
This edition sports 22 landmarks from today's most popular trav- 
el destinations across America. And how were dese chosen? By 
you! In May 2006, an online vote was conducted and millions of 
votes were cast. Three landmarks from each of +e 22 cities were 
osted and America made the choices.. . Not oyy for which land- 
arks m d d make the cut but also, in which or+ the landmarks 
dd be p l d So, rdtb m~dern tokens in hald, updated values 
wprcge@essp-fior-Ae, get ready to buy, rent and sell your 
b e t o F 5 .this2lat century real estate m ket. 
: ~ l - ~ i t l e 
~ e e d 
cards 16 Chance Lards 
&@sL- 
1 Pack of Play Money 32 ouses 12 Hotels 
P 
The tokens are made 6E-qetd md may bend. If th 
2m%%i 
The, dassic rules. 
WHAT'S D~FFEREN 
I ' 
* The gameboard spa& and corrt?=ding 
Title Deeds represent land- 
marks from 22 ofthe host vacationed in iities in the Un - 
values have been incrdased to better reflect today's marke 
The tokens have beenredesigned to represent some of to 
icons, including a Mo orola Mobile Phone, the 
Coffee cup, McDonal 's French Fries, a New B 
d 
radoodle, a jet airplan , and a laptop compute 
- ---- 
of the traditidd 
railrotid& MOM 
amres four of the_ nabcm's most travel&! 
US 
utilities are nbw service providers, incliiding 
and a Cell Ph ne Service Provider. 
P 
uiy Tax has been placed with Interest Dueon Credit 
-7 
MaNOPOLY@ GAME 
-- - 
-. 
-RULESOFPfAY 
+---=-.- 
. . .- >---A-- 
OB ECF---i:.-/ 
. . . 
--.-. 
C
T
a
 
--<.- - i,- 
---- - 
.-. 
~ 
-<- 
-7== ---.- 
-72i1a3 
---.- 
. 
The object of the g a m ~ ~ @ 
&&me the wealthiest pld@%i ouyigg, renong, 
selling, and trading landmiirk properties throughout the United States. 
Place the gameboard op a flat surface within reach of all players. 
Place the Chance and ommunity Chest cards facedown on their 
Y 
nding spaces in the center of the gameboard. 
e money by denornination and lay each denornination on its 
side in a separate compk-tmmt of the Banker's Tray. 
Each player is given $1 b,000,000 dollars divided as follows: two leach 
O,OOOs, S1,000,~00s and $5W,OOOs; six $ZOO,OOOs: five each of 
50,000s anf $10,000~. 
- - . 
a token and pl ce it on "GO." This will represent you as yoti move 
e board. Each player does the same. 

-=- 
. - 
If you land on either a Chance or Community Chest space, 
from the corresponding deck and follow its instructions. 
facedown to the bottom of the deck. Do not reshuffle 

'I 
-. - 
advantage to have buildings on yaw p r s ~ r e a 5 b m u ~ 
rats 
value of the hotel as shown on the Title Deed card. You may build only one 
hotel on any one property. 
at once, or they may be sold back one house at a time (one hotel 
houses), evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were buil 
BUILDING SHORTAGES 
When the Bank has no more buildings (housedhotels) to sell, players wishing 
to buy them must wait until another player returns hislher buildings to the 
Bank before buying. If there is a limited number of buildings available and two 
or more players wish to buy more than the Bank has, the buildings must be 
blue properties), you have a Monopoly. Now you can begin improving your 
auctioned to the highest bidder. 
properties by building houses. The price for each house is shown on the Title 
Deed card for the property on which you build the house. 
SELLING PROPERTIES 
The property owner still collects double rent from an opponent who lands on 
Unimproved properties (without buildings), airports and Service Providers may 
the unimproved properties of hislher complete color group 
be sold to any player as a private transaction for any amount the owner can get; 
however, no property can be sold to another player if buildings are placed on 
Even Build1Brea.k Down Rule: You MUST build houses evenly across your 
any property of that color group. Any buildings so located must be sold back to 
properties. If you buy just one house, you may place it on any one of the 
the Bank before the owner can sell any property of that color group. 
properties in your complete color group. The next house, however, must be 
MORTGAGES 
placed on one of the remaining unimproved properties of this or any other 
complete color group you own. You can never build more than one house 
Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the Bank at any time. Before 
on any one property of any color group until you have built one house on 
an improved property can be mortgaged, all of the buildings on all the pr~perties 
every property of that group. After you have built one house on each of the 
of its color group must be sold back to the Bank at half price. The mortgage 
properties in your color group, you can begin building a second row of houses. 
value is printed on each Title Deed card. 
Selling Back Houses: Houses may be sold back to the Bank at any time for one- 
No rent can be collected on mortgaged properties, Service Providers or airports. 
half the amount paid for them. All houses on one color group must be sold 
However, rent can be collected on un-mortgaged properties in the m e p u p . 
one by one, evenly, in reverse of the manner in which they were built. 

The HASBROa PARKER BROTHERS and MQNOPOLY names and logas, the dis- 
tinctive design of the gameboard, the four co~ner squares, the MR. MONOPOLY 
name and character, and each of the distinctive dements OF the board and rules 
are trademarks of Hasbro for its prapmty tmding game and game equipment. 
B2M)6 Hasbm, P a w W t , IhI 0BA2. All Rights @srrved. 
& @ denote US. 
Trdemaclts 
- . --. - - - 
r> 
@2OM Starbucks Coffee Compny. All wts Rmmed. Wed +vim p ~ d i o n . 
New mfice 
AthletiZ Shoe, Inr., @ w p m - 
TM & Design &! 2006 
Hollywood Chamber of Gommercc- 
Glbbal Icons, LLG An Rights 
- . 
Reserved. www.globalicom.com. TheTiiSqwre Street Desidqi~ed 
herein 
is a trademark of the City of New York and may not be reproduced without 
written consent. 8 
2006 City of New York. AN rights resewed. Majorkague 
Baseball trademarks and copyrights are used with permission of Major Lea* 
Wball Properties, Inc. Courtesy Mall of America. Courtesy Red Rocks 
Amphitheatrtz @ Gaylwd Entertainmt-Company. Wtg approval horn Smith -- 
Tower Courtesy of P b m Square Comm~@f$y-&go&&m- 
-- 
- -- -- 
. . -"--. 
; L , C L . 
767004om 
.- - - ----- 
.
A
 
BROTHERS 
y& 

I ' LYI 
WHAT WOULD THE M O N O P O L Y CAME BE LIKE I F IT WERE 
Yr? 
-- - 
INVENTED TODAY? THE M O N O P O L Y : HERE & NOW EDITION =-- 
--L - 
---- 
IS OUR ANSWER TO THIS QUESTION. BUT WE COULD NOT HAVE 
A
 
DONE IT WITHOUT THE HELP OF HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS --d
OF MONOPOLY FANS ACROSS THE COUNTRY WHO VOTED AND 
RALLIED TO HELP DEFINE THIS TRULY MODERN EDITION* 
 
---- 
- L _ : _ 
THE VOTE 
For three weeks, starting in late April 2006, dl1 online poll ran on 
the official MONOPOLY website. More than three million votes 
were cast, determining the fate of MONOPOLY: Here & Now's 22 
properties.Three landmarks from each of 22 great cities across 
our country were up for grabs. Not only would America decide 
which landmarks made the cut, but also the order in which 
they would appear on the gameboard.The highest vote-getters 
would land on the coveted Dark Blue properties, traditionally 
home to Boardwalk and Park Place. Cities (and their landmarks) 
would then be placed in counterclockwise order,ending with the 
lower-rent Purple properties. 
THE CITIES 
Now, truly dozens of great American cities are 
representation on the MONOPOLY gameboard; but with only 22 
available property spaces, some tough decisions had to be made. 
Game designers struggled over which cities to include.Then, 
going back to the spirit in which Charles Darrow first designed 
MONOPOLY, they ultimately based their decision on which cities 
were great "Here & Nod'trawl destinations.Game designers also 
wanted to ensure that the final list of "Here&Nod'cities provided - 
ample geographic diversity so that all regions of the counrrywert :* 
represented. 
iss!!zs 
I _ 
-.- _ #=-- 
- - __ 
-- - -- 
--- 
Of course, creating such3 T5fma'It that some ti?;& co&;=d?i'" 
=sa 
'h \ 
L 
objections to not being included when a neighboring city was 
be represented. A few cities even came forward, voicing their 
L 
chosen instead -for example, in the Buckeye state, Columbus 
. questioned Cleveland's inclusion, while Memphis felt t k y 
' 
would have been a better choice than Nashville t 
b 
represent Tennesse 

FUN FACTS ABOUT 
THE VOTE: 
I HAD MINNEAPOLIS RECEIVED 
250 MORE VOTES, IT WOULD HAVE 
MOVED AROUND THE CORNER 
FROM LIGHT BLUE TO MAGENTA. 
THE LANDMARKS THAT RECEIVED 
THE MOST VOTES WERE (IN 
ORDER): 
DISNEY WORLD, TML 
GATEWAY ARCH, AND JOHNSON 
SPACE CENTER. [LANDMARKS 
WERE PLACED ON THE BOARD 
BASED ON THE NUMBER OF 
VOTES FOR THEIR-CITY'S 
COLLECTION OF LANDMARKS, NOT 
JUST THE SPECIFIC LANDMARK 
THAT WOW FOR THE CITY.) 
THE GATEWAY ARCH (ST 
d 
RALLIES 
Government and tourist officials in each of the 22 cities 
were told that the number of votes cast for that city woub 
ultimately determine where its landmark would appear 
on the board.Mayors and tourist officials helped rally local 
voters, and several Convention and Visitor's Bureaus placed 
links on their official sites to the MONOPOLY voting site, 
Two weeks into the three-week voting process, Phoenix 
officials realized that their landmark would land on a low- 
rent Purple space if the voting ended that day.The mayor 
mentioned this in his weekly press conferenceland the 
Phoenix media rallied Arizonans to start voting every day. 
The effort resulted in Phoenix moving from Purple,turning 
the comer and surpassing cities such as Denver, Atlanta and 
St. Louis to ultimately land on a Red property. 
And while the rally hurt Atlanta, the Georgia city can be 
consoled by knowing that their fall in rank landed them on 
the traditional "St. Charles Placenspace, and earned Atlanta's 
landmark a place on a CHANCE card:"Beat the heat by 
splashing in the world's largest interactive fountain.Advance 
to Centennial Olympic Park."(NewYork City and Orlando also 
earned cards by landing on Boardwalk and Illinois Avenue, 
respectively; properties which traditionally have cards 
directing players to them.) 
Dallas and Cleveland remained in the low-rent Purplc- 
properties throughout most of the voting process. Nashville 
occupied one of those spaces for a short time during the first 
week of voting, but a surge of civic pride moved them up to 
a Light Blue where they remained 
Atlantic City, not one of the 22 proposed properties, rallied 
for inclusion in the game. Fighting for a spot,Atlantic City 
officials staged a rally on the famed BoardwalkThe New 
Jersey congressional delegation in Washington, D.C. joined 
the effort and sent a letter to Hasbro's CEO, requesting that 
MONOPOLY reconsider and find room for them. Ultimately, 
Atlantic City would be represented by a COMMUNITY CHEST 
card:"Win big at the casinos in Atlantic City." 
Atlantic City still holds the ultimate MONOPOLY honor: to 
have an entire game, the original version, dedicated solel .1
to properties within its city limits. This original MONOPOLl 
version will continue to be sold alongside the MONOPOLY, 
Here & Now Edition. 
To fully experience this MONOPOLY game A m d a --
I . -_- . 
built, simply open the gameboard, grab the modern - E, 
tokens and start buying your way across the country, -:
.- - 
We hope you enjoy playing in this 21 st century real 
estate market 2-rn 
--- 
L of the board and ruhs are trademarks d Hasbra For its orooertv tmdina 
Wih-