A WARNING:
CHOKING HAZARD-Small parts.
For 2 to 4 players / Ages 5 to 8
Rules ©1990, 1995 Hasbro, Inc.
All Rights Reserved Printed in U.S.A.
OBJECT
‘..
To be the player with the most money when another player runs
out of cash!
You do this by setting up Ticket Booths on as many Boardwalk
Amusements as possible and collecting entrance fees when
other players land on them!
EQUIPMENT
MONOPOLY® JUNIOR game board l “Monopoly” brand
money l Deck of 24 Chance (“?“) cards l 4 Car movers l Die
l 48 Plastic ticket booths (4 sets of 12)
SETUP
l Pick a car mover and place it on “GO!” Put any extras
aside, out of play.
l Each player takes 10 (or 12 in a 2-player game) Ticket
Booths that match the color of his or her mover. Put any
extras aside, out of play.
l Shuffle the deck of Chance cards (with the “?“) and place
them face down on the marked place on the board.
l Choose a player to be the Banker. The Banker separates
the money into the different denominations and gives
each player the following: five $1’s, four $2’s, three $3’s,
one $4, and one $5. The Banker also plays the game-but
always keeps the bank’s money separate from his or her
own!
l Roll the die. High roller goes first.
GAME PLAY
On your turn:
l Roll the die and move your car mover that many spaces
along the Boardwalk then.. 
l Follow the instructtons on that space.
Note: During the game, if you don’t have the exact bill to pay
what you owe, the Banker will make change for you!
SPACES ON THE BOARD: If you land on...
An Amusement without a Ticket Booth: YOU must pay the
Banker the amount shown on the space, then put one of your
own Ticket Booths on it. You’re now in charge of this
Amusement, and anyone who lands on it must pay you the
entrance fee shown on the space!
An Amusement with a Ticket Booth: Pay up! YOU must pay
the owner (the person whose Booth is on it) the dollar amount
shown on the space. And if that person owns both Amusements
of the same color, you must pay double the amount shown!
GO!: Every time you pass GO!, collect $2 from the Bank.
Don’t forget to collect, because if you do, you’re out of luck!
A Railroad: Roll again, move, and follow the instructions on
the space you land on.
Fireworks or Water Show: Pay $2 to see the show. Put the
money on the “Rich Uncle Pennybags’ Loose Change” space.
Rest Rooms: If you land here by a roll of the die, you are
“Just Waiting.”
GO to the Rest Rooms: YOU must put $3 on the “Rich Uncle
Pennybags’ Loose Change” space then move your mover
immediately to the Rest Rooms. Do NOT pass GO! and do
NOT collect $2. On your next turn, roll and move as usual.
Rich Uncle Pennybags’ loose Change: If YOU land here
and there’s any money on the space, you get to take it all!
Chance-?: Draw the top Chance card, follow its
instructions, then discard it face up next to the Draw pile. If you
use up the Draw pile, turn the Discard pile over and use it again.
THE CHANCE-“?‘‘-CARDS
“Go To” or “Take a Ride” Spaces: Move your mover
immediately to the space indicated, then do whatever you
would ordinarily do on that space. If you pass GO!, collect $2.
Free Ticket Booth: Do not move your token. Place one of
your own unused Ticket Booths on either of the unoccupied
Amusements of the color shown on the card. If both
Amusements already have two different colored Ticket
Booths on them, you may remove either one of them and
replace it with your own Ticket Booth. Give the booth you
remove hack to its owner. However, if both Amusements have
the same color Ticket Booths already on them, you’re out of
luck: You cannot replace either one. In this case-and only in
this case-you may discard this Chance card and draw a new
one. Follow its instructions.
STRATEGY HINT: When you draw a “Free Ticket Booth”
Chance card, replace a Ticket Booth of the player who is
farthest ahead in the game. Remember, it’s to your advantage to
have your own Ticket Booths on both amusements of the same
color so they cannot be taken away when another player draws a
“Free Ticket Booth” card. Also, owning both means you collect
double when someone lands on either one.
WINNING
As soon as one player runs out of money, the game ends, and
all the other players count up their money. The player with
the most cash on hand wins!
PROOF OF PURCHASE
00441C-B