GAMER
BRAND
c Fast-Dealing Property Trading Game c
G A M E G U I D E
Aim of the Game
Race around the MONOPOLY board as your favourite Nintendo
characters! Earn points by collecting Coins, buying Property,
and beating Bosses. The game ends when the ﬁ nal Boss Fight is 
over. Then the player with the highest score wins!
Contents
Gameboard, 4 Character Tokens, 4 Character Cards, 4 Reminder 
Cards, 8 Boss Cards, 16 Title Deed Cards, 1 Numbered Die,
1 Power-up Die, 90 Coins (50 Golden Coins, 40 Five Coins).
BOSS FIGHTS
BOSS FIGHTS
When you land on or pass 
When you land on or pass 
GO, you trigger a Boss 
GO, you trigger a Boss 
Fight. At the end of your 
Fight. At the end of your 
turn: 
turn: 
Turn over the top 
Turn over the top 
Boss card and place it 
Boss card and place it 
where all players can 
where all players can 
see it. 
see it. 
• Boss Level
• Boss Level
• Pay the Bank this many 
Pay the Bank this many 
Coins to roll against
Coins to roll against
the Boss
the Boss
• Roll this or higher
Roll this or higher
to win
to win
• Immediately get this 
Immediately get this 
bonus
bonus
• The Boss card is worth 
The Boss card is worth 
this many points at the 
this many points at the 
end of the game
end of the game
If you wish to ﬁ
If you wish to ﬁ ght the Boss and can aff
 ght the Boss and can aff ord to pay the roll cost, do so. 
 ord to pay the roll cost, do so. 
Most Bosses require you to pay the roll cost to the Bank but some require 
Most Bosses require you to pay the roll cost to the Bank but some require 
you to pay the Boss. When the card requires you to pay the Boss, place 
you to pay the Boss. When the card requires you to pay the Boss, place 
your payment on that Boss card. 
your payment on that Boss card. 
If you don’t wish to ﬁ
If you don’t wish to ﬁ ght the Boss, you may pass, and the player to your 
 ght the Boss, you may pass, and the player to your 
left may ﬁ
left may ﬁ ght, and so on. Once you pass on ﬁ
 ght, and so on. Once you pass on ﬁ ghting a Boss, you can’t get 
 ghting a Boss, you can’t get 
back in on that ﬁ
back in on that ﬁ ght, but you may ﬁ
 ght, but you may ﬁ ght other Bosses later in the game.
 ght other Bosses later in the game.
Roll the numbered die. 
Roll the numbered die. 
Did you beat the Boss?
Did you beat the Boss?
If your roll is equal to or higher than the required roll, you win! Immediately 
If your roll is equal to or higher than the required roll, you win! Immediately 
carry out the Bonus on the Boss card, and keep the card in front of you 
carry out the Bonus on the Boss card, and keep the card in front of you 
for Points. 
for Points. 
Did you lose this time?
Did you lose this time?
If your roll is less than the required roll, you lose the ﬁ
If your roll is less than the required roll, you lose the ﬁ ght. The player 
 ght. The player 
to your left may ﬁ
to your left may ﬁ ght the Boss by paying the roll cost and rolling the 
 ght the Boss by paying the roll cost and rolling the 
numbered die, or they may pass to the next player, and so on. 
numbered die, or they may pass to the next player, and so on. 
Players continue taking turns ﬁ
Players continue taking turns ﬁ ghting the Boss, paying for each roll, until 
 ghting the Boss, paying for each roll, until 
someone wins or until all players decide to pass. If all players pass, the 
someone wins or until all players decide to pass. If all players pass, the 
Boss gets away and is removed from the game.
Boss gets away and is removed from the game.
TOTAL: 150 Points
10 POINTS
10 POINTS
0 POINTS
Swapping Characters
You may swap your Character on the board for one of your other 
Characters at any time on your turn. You may swap only once per 
turn, but you may swap in a way that lets one of your Characters 
move and the other use its Power-up Ability.
The End of the Game
In Party Mode, the game ends immediately when the ﬁ nal Boss 
Fight is over.
Count up points as described in the basic game rules.
If there’s a tie, the player with the most Property 
and Boss cards wins!
Choose one of your Characters to start the game, and place 
that Character Token on GO. You’ll only ever have one of your 
Characters on the board at a time, and players can never 
have the same Character on the board at the same time. For 
example, while both players may choose to have Mario in their 
party, only one player may have Mario on the board at a time. 
The youngest player gets to choose which Character they’ll 
play ﬁ rst. 
Each player chooses two Characters and places both 
of those tokens on GO. Take the Character cards for 
those tokens, and place them face up in front of you 
with their powers showing.
When setting up the Boss deck, include only these 
Boss cards: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 8.
Each player starts with 20 Coins.
Each player may choose two or three Characters and take 
the tokens and Character cards for those Characters.
PLAY!
 On your go, after you roll both dice, you may choose one 
Character to play with. At the end of that Character’s go, turn 
its Character card face down. Any time a Character card is 
face down, you may not use that Character. For example, 
you’re Mario and Donkey Kong. You use Mario on your ﬁ rst go 
then turn his card face down. You must use Donkey Kong on 
your second go then turn him face down.
On your third go, turn both Character cards face up, and you 
may choose to use Donkey Kong or Mario.
 Any Ability you activate that would aff ect all players aff ects 
only your opponent and only one of their Characters. For 
example, if you roll a 
a d o
, your opponent may choose which 
of their Characters must drop Coins, and your Characters 
drop none. If you roll a 
, it only hits your opponent’s 
Character, never your own.
 If it’s your go and one of your Characters is In Jail, you must 
decide whether to pay or roll to get that Character out of Jail 
before you roll both dice to play.
PLAY A 2 or 3-PLAYER GAME
If you’re playing a 3-player game, when setting up the Boss deck, 
include only these Boss cards: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
If you’re playing a 2-player game, follow the basic game rules, but 
play with these changes:
Set it Up!
Set it Up!
PARTY MODE!
Play as more than one Character!
In Party Mode, each player can create a team of up to three 
Characters, swapping Characters in and out as they play. You can 
get more Characters by purchasing MONOPOLY Gamer Power 
Packs. Subject to availability. Each sold separately. Not available in all 
markets. Party Mode is best played with three or four players who have 
a big Character collection and experience playing the basic game. For 
a 2-player game, see the 2-player rules.
How to Play in Party Mode
Follow the basic game rules, but play with these changes:
To get more Characters, each with their own unique
Abilities, look for MONOPOLY Gamer Power Packs!
WARIO™
DIDDY KONG™
LUIGI™
FIRE MARIO
TOAD™
BOO™
Rosalina
Tanooki Mario
AGES
2–4
PLAYERS
THE END OF THE GAME
The game ends immediately when the ﬁ nal Boss 
Fight is over. The player with the highest score wins!
To ﬁ nd out how much you scored, add up the points 
from your Property cards, Boss cards, and Coins. 
Every ﬁ ve Coins is worth 10 points. Stack your 
golden Coins in sets of ﬁ ve for easy counting.
Here’s an example of how to add up your points.
This player owns 3 Properties, beat 2 Bosses and 
has 13 Coins.
Each sold separately. Subject to availability. Not available in all markets. 
TM & © 2017 Nintendo. All Rights Reserved.
The HASBRO GAMING and MONOPOLY names and logos, the distinctive design of the gameboard, the four corner squares, the MR. MONOPOLY name and character,
as well as each of the distinctive elements of the board and playing pieces are trademarks of Hasbro for its property trading game and game equipment.
© 1935, 2016 Hasbro. All rights reserved.
Manufactured by: Hasbro SA, Rue Emile-Boéchat 31, 2800 Delémont CH.
Hasbro Australia Ltd., Level 4, 67-71 Epping Road, Macquarie Park, NSW 2113, Australia. Tel.: 1300 138 697.
Hasbro NZ (a branch of Hasbro Australia Ltd.), 221 Albany Highway, Auckland, New Zealand. Tel.: 0508 828 200.
Consumer Services: Hasbro UK Ltd., PO Box 43 Newport NP19 4YD, UK. Tel.: 00800 22427276. Consumer_aff airs@hasbro.co.uk
Please retain this information for future reference. Colours and contents may vary from those shown.
www.hasbro.co.uk 
www.monopoly.com
0417C1815284 Ac
Monopoly Gamer Rules (AUS)
Originator: HP
Approval: FAR
ROD: 04.17
File Name: C18152840_Mono_Gamer_INST_16.indd
Represented by: Hasbro, De Entree 240, 1101 EE Amsterdam, NL.
Represented by: Hasbro, De Entree 240, 1101 EE Amsterdam, NL.
0417C1815284_NL Ac
0417C1815284_NL Ac

Coins
Coins
In MONOPOLY Gamer, Coins replace 
bills, and throughout the game 
players will drop or scoop up Coins 
as they move around the board.
Warp Pipe
When you land here, advance clockwise to the next 
Warp Pipe, and stop there. If you pass or land on 
dropped Coins, pick them up! If you pass GO, collect
2 Coins, and turn over the top Boss card at the end of 
your go.
Thwomp
When you land here, drop 2 Coins on the space.
Don’t want to buy it or can’t aff ord it?
The Property goes up for auction. Bidding starts with you and moves to the 
left. Bids start at 1 Coin and may be raised by as little as 1 Coin.
The highest bidder wins the auction, and payment goes to the Bank.
If all players pass on bidding, the Property remains unowned.
Owned Properties
When you land on a Property that someone 
else owns, pay them the rent shown on the 
Property’s Title Deed card. 
If a player owns both Properties in a colour 
set, pay them double rent! If the owner 
doesn’t ask you to pay rent before the next 
player rolls the dice, you don’t have to pay!
PROPERTIES
Properties are set up on the board from least 
expensive to most expensive, starting with 
Acorn Plains.
Unowned Properties
When you land on a Property that no one owns, 
you must buy it or auction it.
Want to buy it?
Pay the price on the space, and take the
Title Deed card.
Character Token Abilities
Character Token Abilities
When you land on the Super Star 
board space, you’ll activate your 
character’s unique Super Star Ability!
Boss Fights
Boss Fights
Every time a player passes GO, they 
get a shot at ﬁ ghting a legendary 
Boss. Beat the Boss and you’ll get a 
special bonus!
Power-up Die
Power-up Die
Roll this along with the numbered 
die. On your turn, you’ll move AND 
you’ll activate a Power-up Ability. 
Characters get a special boost when 
you roll certain Power-up Abilities!
The Power-up Die lets you activate an Ability on
your turn. 
Each Character gets a special boost when that 
Character rolls a certain Power-up Ability. This 
replaces and enhances that Ability. See your 
Character card for details.
When you roll a Red Shell, choose any player 
to drop 3 Coins on their current space. If you’re 
Princess Peach and you roll this, that player
drops 4 Coins!
When you roll a Green Shell, the next player on
the board, from your position, drops 3 Coins on
their current space. If two players are tied for the 
next player, choose one.
If you’re Yoshi and you roll this, choose a player in 
front of OR behind you to drop 3 Coins!
When you roll Coins, collect 3 Coins from the Bank.
If you’re Mario and you roll this, collect 4 Coins! 
When you roll a POW, all other players drop 1
Coin on their current space. 
If you’re Donkey Kong and you roll this, all other 
players drop 2 Coins!
When you roll a Blooper, steal 2 Coins from
any player.
Make sure you activate your Power-up Ability and any special 
Character boosts before the next player rolls the dice, or it’s
too late!
Separate the Coins by value and place them within reach of 
all players.
Put the Boss cards face down in numerical order with Boss 1 
on top. Place the pile here.
Place the Title Deed Cards next to their matching board 
spaces. If you don’t have room, keep them as a stack and 
choose someone to be in charge of them.
Each player chooses a Character. Place your chosen Character 
Token on GO. Place that Character’s card in front of you.
Each player starts the game with:
5 Golden Coins
(worth 1 each) 
1 Five Coin
(worth 5 each) 
1 Reminder 
Card
Property Deals 
At any time on your turn, you may off er to buy, sell, or trade 
Property with other players. You may not sell or trade Boss cards 
at any time. The points you earn from beating a Boss are yours 
until the end of the game! 
Roll both dice, and do the following in any order:
 Move your Character forward the number of spaces 
rolled. Collect any Coins on the spaces you pass or 
land on but not on the space where you start.
Where did you land? Follow the rules of that board 
space. See THE BOARD SPACES.
Activate the Ability on your Power-up Die. 
See THE POWER-UP DIE. 
Check your Character card to see if your Character 
gets a boost for the Ability you rolled!
At the end of your turn, if you landed on or passed GO, 
ﬂ ip over the top Boss card to start a Boss Fight. See 
BOSS FIGHTS.
Your turn ends! Pass the dice to your left. If you pass 
the dice before you remember to pick up Coins, it’s 
too late! The Coins stay for the next person!
WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT 
WHAT’S DIFFERENT ABOUT 
MONOPOLY GAMER?
MONOPOLY GAMER?
Highest Score Wins!
Highest Score Wins!
MONOPOLY Gamer is not just about money. You 
win by earning the most points. You earn points 
by collecting Coins, buying Property, and beating 
Bosses!
PLAY!
How to Win
Earn points by collecting Coins, buying Property, and beating 
Bosses. The player with the highest score at the end of the game 
wins!
Who Goes First?
Each player rolls the numbered die. The highest roller starts, and 
play moves to the left.
On Your Turn
THE BOARD SPACES
THE POWER-UP DIE
WHY DOES IT MATTER WHICH 
WHY DOES IT MATTER WHICH
DIE I USE FIRST?
DIE I USE FIRST?
In the example below, Mario just rolled a four and a green shell. 
If he uses the green shell ﬁ rst, Donkey Kong will have to drop 
3 Coins on his space. When Mario moves, he can pick up the 
Coins as he passes! If Mario moves and then uses his green 
shell, the shell will hit Princess Peach instead, and he won’t be 
able to pick up those Coins on this turn. 
WHAT IF I RUN OUT OF COINS?
WHAT IF I RUN OUT OF COINS?
Any time another player uses a Power-up Ability that causes 
you to drop or give Coins or when you need to pay rent, you 
must do so. 
If you do not have enough Coins, you must sell Property you 
own back to the Bank for face value or to other players for an 
agreed-upon price. Then drop or give any Coins you still owe. 
If you have no Coins and no Property to sell, do nothing. You’ve 
got it bad enough already. Hang in there!
MARIO’S ROLL
Coin Block
When you land here, roll the numbered die, and collect 
that many Coins from the Bank. 
Just Visiting
When you land here, put your Character Token on 
the Just Visiting space. 
GO
If you land on or pass GO, collect 2 Coins from the 
Bank. At the end of your turn, ﬂ ip over the top Boss 
card! See BOSS FIGHTS. 
Go to Jail
Move your Character Token to the In Jail space 
immediately! Do not collect 2 Coins for passing GO, 
and do not collect any Coins you pass or land on. 
Do not ﬂ ip over a Boss card. Your turn is over. 
While In Jail
You may not take part in Boss Fights while In Jail. You may still collect 
rent, take part in auctions, and trade.
Character Abilities still aff ect you. If you ever need to drop Coins while 
In Jail, drop them on the Just Visiting space.
How do I get out of Jail? 
Pay 5 Coins to the Bank before you roll the dice for your turn. Then roll 
both dice, and take your turn as normal. 
OR
Roll the numbered die. If you get a 6, get out of Jail for free! Roll both 
dice, and take your turn as normal. If you fail to roll a 6, your turn ends. 
After your second attempt at rolling, you may exit Jail for free and roll 
both dice normally on your next turn. 
When you leave Jail, you may pick up any Coins on Just Visiting.
Super Star
When you land here, activate your Character’s 
unique Super Star Ability. See below for a 
description of each, or see your Character 
card.
Mario™
Roll the numbered die, and collect that many 
plus 5 Coins from the Bank. 
Princess Peach™
Collect rent from the Bank for each Property 
you own.
Yoshi™
Collect all the Coins on the board. 
Donkey Kong™
Steal 3 Coins from each player. 
SET IT UP!
0417C1815284 Ac
Monopoly Gamer Rules (AUS)
Originator: HP
Approval: FAR
ROD: 04.17
File Name: C18152840_Mono_Gamer_INST_16.indd