RULEBOOK
the ultimate game 
of giant monster 
miniatures combat

CREDITS
President 
Sherry Yeary 
Chief Creative Officer 
Matthew D. Wilson 
Executive Director 
William Shick 
Director of Operations 
Jason Martin 
Director of Publications 
Michael G. Ryan 
Monsterpocalypse 
Game Design 
Matthew D. Wilson
Lead Developers 
Jason Soles & William 
Schoonover
Additional Development 
Will Pagani
Development Manager 
William Schoonover
Writing Manager 
Matt Goetz
Senior Writer & Continuity 
Douglas Seacat
Editorial Manager 
Dan Henderson
Graphic Design Director 
Richard Anderson
Graphic Designers 
Jordan Twaddle, Ainsley Yeager
Art Director 
Michael Vaillancourt
Lead Concept Artist 
Nate Feyma
Sculpting Director 
Ron Kruzie
Staff Sculptors 
Doug Hamilton, Nathan 
Lombardi
Studio Director 
Dallas Kemp
Studio Coordinator 
Josh Colón 
Studio Modeler 
James A. Thomas
Digital Engineers 
Nathan Lombardi, Marco 
Segovia, Stuart Spengler
Staff Painters 
Jordan Lamb, Brendan Roy
Hobby & Terrain Specialist 
Danny Samuels
Project Manager 
Michael J. Mulligan
Lead CID Developer 
Will Pagani
IT & Web Developer 
Teb Kelelew
Illustrators 
Andrea Uderzo
Playtesters 
Michael Anderson, Richard 
Anderson, Jack Coleman, Josh 
Colón, JR Godwin, William 
Hungerford, Dallas Kemp, 
Jordan Lamb, Lyle Lowery, 
Liz Olhsson, Jeff Olsen, Will 
Pagani, Faye Reppas, Brendan 
Roy, William Schoonover, Will 
Shick, Jason Soles, Michael 
Valliancort, Gabe Wilcox
Executive Assistant 
Justin Dieter
Customer Service Supervisor 
Jack Coleman 
Customer Service 
Matt Razincka, Faye Reppas
Convention Manager 
JR Godwin 
Social Media Coordinator 
John Swinkels 
Video Producer 
Tony Konichek 
No Quarter Editor-in-Chief 
Lyle Lowery
Production Director 
Mark Christensen 
Technical Director 
Kelly Yeager 
Packing & Shipping Manager 
Joe Lee 
Metal Production Supervisor 
Marcus Rodriguez 
Resin Production Supervisor 
Erik Reierson 
Production 
Jonathan Adams, Darryl 
Alf, Sheri Arellano, William 
Binder, Johan Cea, Bryan 
Dasalla, Ethan Denson, 
Cailon Earl, Hannah Edson, 
Chad Elliott, Alfonso Falco, 
Joel Falkenhagen, Brian 
Green, Jeffrey Handley, David 
Lima, Clayton Links, Loren 
Lower, Bryan McClaflin, Lara 
Medina, Kenton Nutter, Sam 
Rattanavong, Colton Stoddard, 
Jeremy Taylor, James Thomas, 
Chris Tiemeyer, Ben Tracy, 
Ryan Walker, Gabe Wilcox, 
Zixiao Zhou
Ages 14 and up. ©2001–2018 Privateer Press, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. Trademarks are property of Privateer Press 
and registered in the United States and other countries. 
1705 136th Pl. NE, Suite 120, Bellevue, WA 98005. 
For online customer service, email frontdesk@privateerpress.com.

Contents
Welcome to Battle	
Allies & Enemies	
Agendas & Factions	
What You Need to Play	
Models	
Dice	
Dice in Monsterpocalypse	
Model Stat Cards	
Gameplay Overview	
Moving on the Grid	
Making Attacks	
Interacting with the Battle Map	
Foundations	
Objective Spaces	
Getting Ready to Play	
Starting a Game	
Order of Play	
Activating Monsters	
Activating Units	
Combined Unit Attacks	
Downtown Demolition: A Co-op Scenario	

Welcome to Battle
This is Monsterpocalypse, a fast-moving, action-packed tabletop miniatures game that puts players 
in control of the most fearsome giant monsters on Earth. Each battle is waged in a city that you and 
your opponent construct by placing buildings on a battle map. Players choose their forces from their 
collections of models and then battle one another with towering monsters and smaller supporting 
units such as tanks, flying vehicles, and all manner of creatures. Charge your forces into the city to fight 
for supremacy—and be the last monster standing!
Agendas & Factions
The fighting forces in Monsterpocalypse are 
divided into Agendas. Each Agenda is a coalition 
of smaller groups called Factions.
The Factions within an Agenda are united by a 
common purpose. Although their methods vary, 
they fight for the same overall goal. 
Models from the same Faction share common 
origins and characteristics. They cooperate well 
in battle and yield the most efficient use of 
resources.
You can include models from different Factions 
in your force, but all the models in your force 
must belong to the same Agenda.
Cooperative Scenario
If this is your first time playing Monsterpocalypse, the “Downtown Demolition” scenario on 
page 38 is a great place to start. This cooperative scenario is designed to help new players 
learn the basics of movement and rolling dice while enjoying a simple but fun mini-game.
Allies & Enemies
Each model in Monsterpocalypse belongs to a 
Faction, and Factions are grouped together into 
Agendas. When you build a force, you must first 
choose an Agenda. All models in your force must 
belong to the same Agenda (see “Assembling Your 
Force,” p. 24).
Three key terms are used to describe the various 
models in the game:
•	 Allies are all the models in your force. 
All allied models must belong to the same 
Agenda.
•	 Enemies are all the models in your 
opponent’s force.
•	 Faction models are all the models in your 
force that belong to the same Faction.

Agendas
Protectors
The Factions that make up the Protectors 
share one simple goal: to protect Earth 
from all who would destroy it. Demolishing 
a few buildings (or entire cities) in order to 
save the planet is simply a sacrifice 
that must be made.
Destroyers
The Factions that have come together 
as the Destroyers are motivated by the 
satisfaction of pure wanton destruction and 
a burning desire to plunder Earth for its 
vast resources. It’s nothing personal—just 
don’t get in their way.
Lords of Cthul
Dark beings from another plane, come 
to enslave the human race. Wherever 
the Cthulians tread, the earth blackens, vegetation 
withers, and humans kneel—or perish.
Faction: Planet Eaters
These ravenous creatures travel across 
the galaxy like a plague, wreaking havoc 
and devouring planets. As the withered husk of a 
world crumbles to dust, they launch themselves 
again to seek new worlds to feed their boundless 
and unceasing hunger.
Faction: Martian Menace
Although they seem to play well with 
other Destroyers, these diabolical visitors 
from space have come to harvest Earth’s inhabitants 
and resources for their own insidious plans.
Faction: G.U.A.R.D.
The giant robots and armored tanks of 
the multinational force called G.U.A.R.D. 
(Globally United Advanced Research & Defense) 
stand ready to go toe-to-toe with any aggressors 
threatening the peace and prosperity of the planet.
Faction: Shadow Sun Syndicate
Mystery surrounds the motivations of 
the stealthy, scientifically engineered 
ninjas of the Shadow Sun Syndicate—but there is no 
questioning their technological and martial prowess 
against malicious invaders.
Faction: Terrasaurs
The Terrasaurs are earth-shaking 
dinosaurs who fondly remember simpler 
times before technology and progress changed so 
much of the world.

Monsters
The action in Monsterpocalypse centers around 
monsters. Each monster model has a large 
two-sided stat card, because a monster has two 
different forms. A monster begins the game in its 
alpha form and transitions to its hyper form after 
taking a certain amount of damage, triggering it 
to become more aggressive.
A monster is your single greatest and most 
powerful asset in battle. It can do things that 
other models cannot. Be careful, though. If your 
monsters are destroyed, you lose the game.
Monsters are mounted on large bases, which 
occupy four spaces on the battle map.
What You Need to Play
Monsterpocalypse is a game for two players and 
their giant monsters, with each side trying to 
smash the other. But before you can start tearing 
apart cityscapes and throwing each other around, 
you’ll need a few important things.
Models
The game includes three types of models: 
monsters, units, and buildings. Each model has a 
stat card detailing its stats and special rules.
The type of model is important. Some rules and 
effects in Monsterpocalypse affect only monsters, 
some affect only units, some affect only buildings, 
and some affect models of any type.
Defender x

Units
Units represent the minions and support troops 
that accompany your monsters in the fight for 
supremacy. You will use many units during the 
game. Units begin the game in your unit reserves 
and are spawned onto the battle map throughout 
the game. When units are destroyed, they are 
returned to your unit reserves to be spawned 
again later. Units may not seem that powerful 
compared to giant monsters, but intelligent use 
of units can quickly tip the odds in your favor.
There are two types of units: grunt units and 
elite units. Grunts are the basic version of the 
unit. Elite units, marked by a star on their bases, 
grant additional capabilities to other grunts of 
the same unit type. Some units have only grunt 
versions.
Units are mounted on small bases, which occupy 
one space on the battle map.
GRUNT g-tank
apartment building
Rubble
G.U.A.R.D. units
planet eater units
GRUNT belcher
elite g-tank
ELITE belcher
Buildings & Rubble Tiles
Buildings are large models that provide obstacles 
and objectives for your monsters and units.
Debris tiles represent destroyed buildings. One 
side of each tile is a pile of rubble, and the other 
is a flaming hazard (see “Buildings,” p. 22).

bATTLE MAP
dice well
monster
power
unit
map title
grid

Dice
Dice play a pivotal role in Monsterpocalypse. 
Players use their dice as a form of currency. 
Sometimes you spend dice and sometimes you 
roll them. How you choose to use your dice 
throughout the game is what determines whose 
monster is victorious and whose monster is lunch.
The three types of dice are Action Dice, Boost 
Dice, and Power Dice. Each player plays with their 
own set of dice.
You store your dice in dice pools on the battle 
map: the Monster Pool, the Unit Pool, the Power 
Pool, and the Dice Well. Whenever you use a die, 
you move it from one pool to another pool. What 
your models can do in the game depends on how 
many dice you have in your various dice pools.
BOOST DIE
ACTION DIE
POWER DIE
Games of Monsterpocalypse are played on battle 
maps. The main part of a battle map is a large 
grid representing the metropolis where all the 
action will take place. This grid determines where 
you place buildings, where your units enter the 
game, and what type of terrain your models 
must traverse during battle. The battle map also 
includes different dice pools where you store 
your dice during play.
When your models are in play, they occupy the 
square spaces on the battle map’s grid. Small-
based models occupy one space; large-based 
models occupy four spaces at a time.
Zor-maxim

Action Dice 
Action Dice have three misses, two strikes, and 
one super strike on each die. Action Dice make 
up the basic resource that allows your models to 
make attacks and perform Actions (see “Actions,” 
p. 30). Every time you want to make an attack, 
you must roll one or more Action Die. When you 
want to use an Action, you spend one Action Die.
During the game, you move Action Dice between 
your Monster Pool and your Unit Pool. After you 
roll or spend dice from your Unit Pool, you place 
them in your Monster Pool. After you spend dice 
from your Monster Pool, you place them in your 
Unit Pool. Your Action Dice move back and forth 
between the two pools in this way throughout 
the game.
You use the Action Dice in your Monster Pool 
when you activate your monsters, and you use 
the Action Dice in your Unit Pool when you 
activate your units. The pool you use during 
your turn is the active pool. Certain game 
effects can add or subtract from the number of 
Action Dice you have in a dice pool. When this 
happens, simply move the number of affected 
dice from one pool to the other. For example, if 
your monster is hit by an attack that causes it to 
lose an Action Die, move an Action Die from the 
Monster Pool to the Unit Pool.
You begin the game with ten Action Dice in your 
Unit Pool.
Dice in Monsterpocalypse
Monsterpocalyse uses three types of specialized 
dice: white Action dice, blue Boost Dice, and red 
Power Dice. 
Strikes & Misses
Instead of pips or numbers, the dice have 
explosion symbols to indicate strikes and blank 
faces to indicate misses. A strike is indicated by 
one explosion on the die. A super strike, indicated 
by two explosions, counts as two strikes. When 
rolling dice in Monsterpocalypse, simply add up 
the number of explosion symbols you see. For 
instance, the three dice shown below add up 
to three strikes. Each type of dice has different 
chances of rolling strikes.
strike
miss
super strike
Dice in Play
When you roll the dice, you must decide how 
many dice you will be rolling and then roll them 
all at once. Whenever you pick up dice to roll 
them, they are considered dice in play. Some 
special rules can add or remove dice from the 
dice in play or cause you to reroll the dice in 
play. Your dice remain in play until all rules that 
affect them are resolved and you place them 
into a pool.

You store unearned Power Dice in the Dice Well 
on the battle map. When you earn Power Dice, 
you move them to your Power Pool. You can use 
only the Power Dice that are in your Power Pool. 
After you spend or roll a Power Die, return it to 
the Dice Well.
You can add Power Dice from your Power Pool 
to monster attack rolls to greatly increase your 
chances of success. Some abilities available to 
monsters, such as power attacks, require you to 
use Power Dice. If you have not accumulated 
enough Power Dice, you might not be able to do 
what you want. Units cannot use Power Dice.
You can earn Power Dice in the following ways:
•	 Every time you make an attack that results 
in the destruction of an enemy model, you 
gain one Power Die for each enemy model 
destroyed after removing the model(s) from 
the battle map.
•	 Every time you make an attack that results 
in the destruction of a building, you gain two 
Power Dice for each building destroyed after 
removing the building(s) from the battle map.
•	 When you power up, you gain one Power Die 
for every allied unit holding a power zone on 
the battle map (see “Power Zones,” p. 23, 
and “Activating Monsters,” p. 26).
•	 When you power up, you gain one Power Die 
for every building currently secured by your 
force (see “Securing Buildings,” p. 22).
•	 You can gain Power Dice through certain 
other rules and game effects.
Boost Dice 
Boost Dice have two misses, three strikes, and 
one super strike on each die. Boost Dice are 
special dice you roll when a model has a knack 
for a particular kind of attack or because of 
certain abilities or special circumstances. Boost 
Dice have better odds of success than Action 
Dice. Boost Dice are not part of any dice pool and 
do not get used up when you roll them. They are 
bonus dice you get for free. You store your Boost 
Dice in the Dice Well on the battle map, and you 
return them to the Dice Well after you roll them.
If you ever need to roll more Boost Dice than you 
have on hand, make your roll as normal, note the 
number of strikes rolled, then roll again, using 
as many dice as needed to reach the required 
number. In some cases, you may need to roll more 
than twice.
Power Dice 
Power Dice have one miss, four strikes, and 
one super strike on each die. Power Dice are 
an additional resource gained through various 
means—mostly by causing destruction! You start 
the game with no Power Dice in your Power 
Pool, but you can earn Power Dice throughout 
the game. Power Dice are used up when you roll 
or spend them, and you can never have more 
than ten Power Dice in your Power Pool at any 
one time. Any Power Dice accumulated beyond 
ten are lost.

Brawl Stats – The first number to the right of the 
Brawl header (inside the white Action Dice icon) 
is the maximum number of Action Dice the model 
can roll when it makes a brawl attack. A model 
must have a Brawl stat to make brawl attacks. 
The second number (inside the blue Boost Dice 
icon) is the number of Boost Dice the model rolls 
whenever it makes a brawl attack; if there is no 
number, the model does not roll free Boost Dice 
for a brawl attack.
Blast Stats – The first number to the right of the 
Blast header is the Range (RNG) of the attack, 
which indicates the maximum number of spaces 
the target of a blast attack can be from the 
attacking model. The second number (inside the 
white Action Dice icon) is the maximum number 
of Action Dice the model can roll when it makes 
a blast attack. A model must have a Blast stat to 
make a blast attack. The third number (inside the 
blue Boost Dice icon) is the number of Boost Dice 
the model rolls whenever it makes a blast attack; 
if there is no number, the model does not roll 
free Boost Dice for a blast attack.
Power Stats – Only monsters have Power stats. 
The first number to the right of the Power 
header (inside the white Action Dice icon) is the 
maximum number of Action Dice the model can 
roll when it makes a power attack. The second 
number (inside the blue Boost Dice icon) is the 
number of Boost Dice the model rolls whenever 
it makes power attack.
A model’s special rules are listed on its card (see 
“Special Rules,” p. 30).
Model Stat Cards
Each stat card provides all relevant stats for the 
model as well as certain other basic information, 
including the model’s name, its Faction, and its 
type. 
One side of a monster’s stat card is for its alpha 
version, and the other side is for its hyper version. 
Basic Stats
Stat cards include the following basic stats for 
models.
Speed (SPD) – The number of spaces the 
model can move on the grid when it advances. 
Additionally, some models have the High Mobility 
icon 
 next to their SPD stat. (See “Moving on 
the Grid,” p. 14.)
Defense (DEF) – The number of strikes your 
opponent must roll in a single attack to hit this 
model.
Cost – The number of Action Dice you must 
spend to bring a unit into play when you spawn 
units. Only units have a Cost stat.
Attack Stats
A model’s forms of attack are represented by its 
weapon stat bars. There are three basic types of 
attack: brawl attacks, blast attacks, and power 
attacks. Only monsters can make power attacks. 
(For details, see “Making Attacks,” p. 18.)

Initializing...
22 43 61 6e 64 69 64 20 70 68 72 61 73 65 20 74 68 61 74 
27 73 20 6c 6f 6e 67 20 65 6e 6f 75 67 68 20 61 6e 64 
20 77 6f 6e 27 74 20 67 65 74 20 6d 65 20 69 6e 20 74 72 
6f 75 62 6c 65 21 22
Optimizing Electromagnetic Pathways
Electro-Ceramic Ram Capacitor : MAX
38.897569, -77.036491
ANNIHILATE – This monster’s attacks 
do super damage. 
DEMOLISHER – When this model 
makes an attack, gain +1 Power Die 
for every building destroyed as a 
result of its attack. 
RILED – When this model is damaged 
or destroyed by an enemy attack, you 
gain one Power Die. 
UNEARTHLY RAGE – While this model is 
in play, other allied models gain Riled.
PLANET EATERS / MONSTER
 
 
5 4 3 2 
 
HYPER
DISINTEGRATE – Buildings destroyed 
by this attack are not replaced by 
rubble or hazards.
CHAIN REACTION – If this attack hits 
a unit, all units adjacent to the target 
unit with DEF equal to or less than 
the number of strikes rolled also 
suffer 1 damage point as a result of 
this attack.
Brawl
Initializing...
22 43 61 6e 64 69 64 20 70 68 72 61 73 65 20 74 68 61 74 
27 73 20 6c 6f 6e 67 20 65 6e 6f 75 67 68 20 61 6e 64 
20 77 6f 6e 27 74 20 67 65 74 20 6d 65 20 69 6e 20 74 72 
6f 75 62 6c 65 21 22
Optimizing Electromagnetic Pathways
Electro-Ceramic Ram Capacitor : MAX
38.897569, -77.036491
DEMOLISHER – When this model 
makes an attack, gain +1 Power Die 
for every building destroyed as a 
result of its attack. 
RILED – When this model is damaged 
or destroyed by an enemy attack, you 
gain one Power Die.
DISINTEGRATE – Buildings destroyed 
by this attack are not replaced by 
rubble or hazards.
CHAIN REACTION – If this attack hits 
a unit, all units adjacent to the target 
unit with DEF equal to or less than 
the number of strikes rolled also 
suffer 1 damage point as a result of 
this attack.
Brawl
PLANET EATERS / MONSTER
WAVE 
DISINTEGRATOR BEAM
HYPER BIOLOGY
RENDING 
CLAWS
ALPHA
 
11 10 9 8 7 6 
 
Monster Stat Cards
Monster stat cards are larger than unit and 
building stat cards. They are double-sided, 
with one side displaying the rules and stats for 
the monster’s alpha form and the other side 
displaying the rules and stats for its hyper form. 
Monsters start the game in their alpha forms.
A monster’s health track is located along the 
bottom edge of its stat card and shows how 
much damage the monster can take before being 
destroyed. Units and buildings do not have health 
tracks because they are destroyed if they take a 
single damage point. See page 20 for more 
detailed information on the health track.
Oscillating Subharmonic Energy
Reigniting Antimatter Chamber
Rocket Chopper
G.U.A.R.D. / UNIT
COST: 1
GRUNT
FLIGHT – This model can end its 
movement on impassible terrain and 
is immune to hazards except when 
colliding with them. 
SPOTTER – Enemy models within two 
spaces of this model have their DEF 
reduced by 1 against blast attacks made 
by allied models, to a minimum of 1.
RADAR DISK
TEMPEST 
ROTARY CANNON
U.C. GUIDED 
MISSILES
22 43 61 6e 64 69 64 20 70 
68 72 61 73 65 20 74 68 61 
74 27 73 20 6c 6f 6e 67 20 
65 6e 6f 75 67 68 20 61 6e 
64 20 77 6f 6e 27 74 20 67 
65 74 20 6d 65 20 69 6e 20 
74 72 6f 75 62 6c 65 21 22
Fluctuating Resonance Frequency
COOL THING
apartment Building
BUILDING
HIGH-DENSITY – This building is 
not limited to four per player.
monster stat card
building stat card
unit stat card

Moving on the Grid
The most common type of movement in 
Monsterpocalypse is advancing. Monsters and 
units have Speed (SPD) stats that indicate how 
many spaces they can move on the map each 
time they advance. Each of your monsters can 
advance once during the Advancement Phase of 
your Monster Activations. Each of your units can 
advance once during the Advancement Phase of 
your Unit Activations.
A model can move either up, down, left, or right 
on the battle map. A model can move diagonally 
once while advancing. Monsters can occupy more 
than one space at a time, but they still count out 
their movement like units do.
Gameplay Overview
Monsterpocalypse is played in turns, alternating 
between the two players. Each player starts the 
game by taking a Unit Activation. Then for the 
rest of the game, you can choose to take either 
a Monster Activation or a Unit Activation on 
your turn. Each type of activation is divided into 
phases that must occur in order. These phases are 
explained in depth beginning on page 26.
A Unit Activation consists of the following 
phases:
1.	Spawn Phase, when your units can enter the 
battle map.
2.	Advancement Phase, when your units 
advance.
3.	Attack Phase, when your units make attacks.
4.	Push Phase, when you can move any unused 
Action Dice into the Monster Pool.
A Monster Activation consists of the following 
phases:
1.	Power Phase, when your monsters power up.
2.	Advancement Phase, when your monsters 
advance.
3.	Attack Phase, when your monsters make 
attacks.
4.	Push Phase, when you can move any unused 
Action Dice into the Unit Pool.
Monsters can move through spaces occupied by 
enemy units and allied models, but they cannot 
move through buildings or enemy monsters 
unless they have a special rule that allows them 
to do so.
two ways a monster can move four spaces

Terrain
The spaces on the battle map represent various 
types of terrain your models will traverse. Monsters 
can move across and occupy any terrain without 
restriction or penalty, but for units, some terrain 
types are more difficult to cross than others.
Open Terrain – Open terrain includes spaces 
such as roads and grass. Count these spaces once 
when a unit advances into them.
Units can move through spaces occupied by 
allied models, but they cannot move through 
buildings or enemy models unless they have a 
special rule that allows them to do so.
No model can finish its movement in a space 
occupied by another model.
Models cannot move beyond the edge of the 
battle map. If a model is thrown or would 
otherwise be moved beyond the edge of the 
battle map, it stops at the edge. Furthermore, 
any time you move a model, it must end its 
movement in spaces it can legally occupy. When 
you put a model into play, you must place it on 
spaces it can legally occupy.
Stepping
Monsters have an additional type of movement 
called stepping. A monster steps by spending an 
Action Die to move one space in any direction, 
including diagonally. A monster can step before it 
advances, after it advances, before it attacks, and 
after it attacks. Your monster can step as many 
times as you have Action Dice to spend. Each step 
is performed individually, and the monster must 
be able to occupy the spaces into which it moves. 
Example: While in alpha form, Terra Khan has 
SPD 6, but its desired target is eight spaces away. 
After advancing six spaces, Terra Khan can spend 
two Action Dice from the Monster Pool to step two 
more spaces, ending up adjacent to its target. The 
spent dice are placed in the Unit Pool.
Examples of open terrain
Rough Terrain – Rough terrain includes spaces 
such as trees and large rocks. Count these spaces 
twice when a unit advances into them.
Example of rough terrain
Impassible Terrain – Impassible terrain includes 
spaces such as water. A unit cannot enter these 
spaces unless it has a special rule that allows it 
to do so.
Example of impassible terrain

Adjacent
A model is adjacent to another model when it 
occupies a space next to or immediately diagonal 
to the other model.
High Mobility 
Some models are capable of leaping great 
distances, tunneling beneath the earth, or 
climbing over any obstacle. These models have 
High Mobility, as indicated by the 
 icon next to 
their SPD on their stat card.
A model with High Mobility can move through 
other models and treats all terrain as open 
terrain. A model with High Mobility is immune to 
hazards except when it ends its advancement on 
a hazard, but it still suffers all effects as a result 
of colliding with hazards and other models.
A unit with High Mobility cannot end its 
movement on impassible terrain.
Cover
A unit adjacent to a building or a friendly 
monster gains Cover. Cover adds +1 to the unit’s 
DEF against blast attacks. A unit cannot gain 
more than +1 DEF from Cover. Cover does not add 
to a unit’s DEF against brawl or power attacks. 
Monsters cannot gain Cover.
Adjacent, Base-to-Base & Aligned
Models can be adjacent to each other, base-to-
base, and aligned.
Spaces adjacent to a G-Tank unit
Spaces adjacent to a monster
Crawler
downtown highrise
repair truck
Belcher

Aligned
A monster is aligned with another monster or a 
building when one entire edge of the monster’s 
base touches one entire edge of the other 
model’s base. Models that are aligned are also 
B2B and adjacent.
Base-to-Base (B2B)
A model is base-to-base (B2B) with another 
model when both models occupy spaces that are 
next to each other. Models that are B2B are also 
adjacent. Models that are diagonal from each 
other are not B2B. 
both belchers
belcher
Gorghadra
< adjacent, 
NOT b2B>
< adjacent, 
NOT b2B>
Spaces B2B with a G-Tank unit
Spaces B2B with a monster (Defender X)
Defender X and Gorghadra are 
aligned, B2B, and adjacent.
Defender X and the downtown highrise are not 
aligned, but they are B2B and adjacent.
Some buildings are not mounted on a base. 
If a building is not mounted on a base, treat the four 
foundation spaces it occupies as its base.
G-Tank

model can also receive Boost Dice from its 
special rules or other game effects. The Brawl, 
Blast, and Power stats restrict only the number 
of Action Dice you can roll, not the number of 
Boost Dice.
Example: Your Alpha Defender X has a Brawl 
Action Dice stat of 7, so it can spend up to seven 
Action Dice when it makes a brawl attack. It also 
has a Brawl Boost Dice stat of 4, meaning it gains 
four Boost Dice on a brawl attack. Whether you 
roll one, two, or even seven Action Dice, you still 
add four Boost Dice to the roll.
The second type of additional dice are Power 
Dice. Only monsters can use Power Dice. You earn 
Power Dice by accomplishing certain tasks in the 
game, and you can add any number of them to 
any monster roll in addition to Action Dice and 
Boost Dice.
Example: Your Defender X makes a brawl attack 
again, and this time you really need it to hit. As 
before, you roll four Boost Dice and up to seven 
Action Dice from your Monster Pool. You decide 
that won’t be enough, so you add four Power Dice 
from your Power Pool to the roll. You can add as 
many Power Dice as you have in your Power Pool.
Remember, a monster’s Brawl, Blast, and Power 
Action Dice stats limit only the number of Action 
Dice you can roll for an attack. They do not affect 
the number of Boost Dice you must add or the 
number of Power Dice you can add to the roll.
Once you determine the number of dice to use, 
make your attack roll. Count up the total number 
of strikes and compare it to the Defense (DEF) of 
your target. If the total number of strikes is equal 
to or greater than the target’s DEF, the attack hits.
Making Attacks
There are three types of attacks in 
Monsterpocalypse: brawl attacks, blast attacks, 
and power attacks. To make an attack, follow 
these steps:
1.	Choose the type of attack.
2.	Choose a target.
3.	Determine the number of dice in your 
attack roll.
4.	Roll the dice and resolve the attack.
Attack Rolls
Every attack roll must include at least one 
Action Die from the active pool, and you can add 
a number of Action Dice to the roll up to the 
number of the corresponding stat.
Example: Your Sun Fighter unit makes a blast 
attack against a Belcher. The Sun Fighter has 
a Blast Action Dice stat of 2, so it can roll up to 
two Action Dice for an attack. Because it’s a unit, 
the Sun Fighter’s Action Dice come from the Unit 
Pool. The Belcher’s Defense is 2, so the attack 
hits if the roll results in two or more strikes. After 
the roll, the two dice used for the attack go into 
the Monster Pool.
Two other types of dice can also come into play. 
The first are Boost Dice. Some models receive 
Boost Dice for certain types of attacks, as noted 
by the weapon stat bars on their stat card. The 
number inside the blue Boost Dice icon is the 
number of Boost Dice you roll for free when 
making that type of attack with the model. The 

Target Models
When you choose to have a model make an 
attack, you must choose a building or an enemy 
model as the target.
An attacker can make a brawl attack targeting 
any adjacent building or enemy model.
An attacker can make a blast attack targeting any 
building or enemy model within range. A blast 
attack’s RNG is given in its weapon stat profile.
When counting the spaces to the target, you can 
count a diagonal only once.
Blast attacks cannot be blocked by other models. 
Monsters are too big to hide behind anything, 
and even the smallest units can be detected by the 
sophisticated systems and instincts of their enemies. 
Regardless of the type of attack or how many dice 
you roll, all attacks must adhere to the following 
rules:
•	 Monsters and units can attack enemy models 
and buildings but cannot attack allied 
models.
•	 You can attack with any number of models 
each turn as long as you have the required 
Action Dice to roll.
•	 Each unit can participate in only one attack 
each turn.
•	 You must complete all of one monster’s 
attacks before declaring the next monster’s 
attacks.
•	 Normally, monsters can make only one attack 
each turn, though some monsters have 
special rules that allow them to make more 
than one.
Power attacks are special attacks that only 
monsters can perform. They differ slightly from 
brawl and blast attacks in that you must roll at 
least one Power Die as well as at least one Action 
Die when you make a power attack. The various 
power attacks are explained in detail beginning 
on page 32.
blast ranges for monsters and units
2 3 4
4 5

alpha form’s health track, it enters hyper form. 
Flip its card over to the hyper side and continue 
tracking the monster’s health. When the monster 
loses the last of its health, it is destroyed and 
removed from the battle map.
Some effects can cause a monster’s health to be 
restored. If a monster has health restored during 
a battle, move the token to the left one point for 
each point restored. A monster’s health can never 
exceed the highest number on its health track. If 
one or more of a monster’s alpha form damage 
boxes are restored, it returns to its alpha form.
Example: Josh’s Deimos-9 is in alpha form with full 
health when it suffers three points of damage from 
an attack. Josh moves the marker on Deimos-9’s 
health track from 11 to 8.
Super Damage
Some attacks or effects cause super damage, 
which means the target takes one additional 
damage point. If multiple rules or effects that 
cause super damage affect the same model 
simultaneously, the target takes only one 
additional point of damage.
Damaging models
Attacks cause one point of damage every time 
they hit. Power attacks can result in additional 
damage.
damaging Units
When a unit takes damage, it is destroyed. When 
your unit is destroyed, remove it from the battle 
map and place it back in your unit reserves.
Damaging Monsters & 
Restoring Health
Each monster has two forms, an alpha form and 
a hyper form. Each form has its own stats and 
special rules. A monster begins the game in its 
alpha form and enters its hyper form when it 
takes a certain amount of damage.
Each monster has a single health track, which is 
divided between its alpha and hyper forms. The 
damage the monster takes throughout the game 
is tracked by moving a marker from left to right 
along its health track to display its current health. 
When a monster suffers damage in excess of its 
alpha side
hyper side
health tracker 
token
flip to hyper 
side icon
monster 
destroyed
icon
complete Monster health track
22 43 61 6e 64 69 64 20 70 68 72 61 73 65 20 74 68 61 74 27 73 
20 6c 6f 6e 67 20 65 6e 6f 75 67 68 20 61 6e 64 20 77 6f 6e 27 
74 20 67 65 74 20 6d 65 20 69 6e 20 74 72 6f 75 62 6c 65 21 22
 
11 10 9 8 7 6 
 
22 43 61 6e 64 69 64 20 70 68 72 61 73 65 20 74 68 61 74 27 73 
20 6c 6f 6e 67 20 65 6e 6f 75 67 68 20 61 6e 64 20 77 6f 6e 27 
74 20 67 65 74 20 6d 65 20 69 6e 20 74 72 6f 75 62 6c 65 21 22
Thera-Magnetic Field Stability : 88%
 
 
5 4 3 2 
 

Interacting with the 
A big part of the fun of Monsterpocalypse lies in 
how your models interact with the battle map 
and the buildings on it. Whether you are knocking 
down buildings or occupying tactically important 
zones, you must understand the role the battle 
map plays in the game.
spawn point
negative zone
foundation
power zone
neutral spawn point
with activator
sky sentinel

Destroying Buildings & Creating Hazards
You can attack buildings just as you would attack 
units or monsters. When a building takes damage, 
it is destroyed.
When a building is destroyed, it is replaced with 
a two-sided debris tile. One side of each tile is 
harmless rubble, while the other side is a hazard. 
Most buildings are replaced with a hazard 
when they are destroyed. If a building has the 
Incombustible special rule, however, it does not 
create a hazard when destroyed and is instead 
replaced by rubble.
Models moving into a hazard take 1 damage 
point. Once a model has suffered the effects of 
a hazard, it does not suffer those effects again 
unless it moves off the hazard and then returns.
Some models have rules that can eliminate 
hazards. When a hazard is eliminated, flip the tile 
over so the rubble side faces up.
Treat all spaces occupied by a rubble tile as 
rough terrain regardless of which side is face up.
Securing Buildings
When three of your units are adjacent to a 
building and no enemy units or enemy monsters 
are adjacent to it, you are securing the building. 
Each time you power up, you receive one Power 
Die for each building you are securing.
A unit cannot secure a building while the unit is 
being moved.
Example: Will has two units adjacent to an 
Industrial Complex. The Industrial Complex has 
the Fuel Depot special rule, which gives all of 
Will’s models +1 SPD while it is secured. He then 
advances a third unit. During its movement the 
Foundations
Foundations are the locations on a battle map 
where you can place buildings during setup. 
Some foundations have green borders and some 
have yellow borders. The colors determine the 
order that you can place buildings on them. 
During setup, green foundations must be filled 
before you can start filling yellow foundations. 
Treat foundations without a building placed on 
them as open terrain.
If one or more models are on a foundation, the 
foundation is occupied. If no models are on a 
foundation, it is unoccupied.
Green foundation
Yellow foundation
Buildings are models that serve as obstacles 
and strategic goals for you and your opponent, 
provide much-needed power for monsters, and 
present dangerous hazards on the battle map 
after you destroy them. Buildings can also provide 
beneficial abilities to your force. Buildings do 
not move during the game. Although each player 
must bring buildings to the game, the buildings 
you bring are not part of your force.

Spawn Points
Spawn points are the spaces on the map where 
units can enter the game. There are two types of 
spawn points: standard spawn points and neutral 
spawn points.
Standard spawn points are color-coded to each 
player. The standard spawn points of your color 
remain your spawn points for the entire game 
(see “Starting a Game,” p. 24).
unit it becomes adjacent to the Industrial Complex 
but continues to move past it so that it is no longer 
adjacent. His unit does not gain the +1 SPD during 
its advancement because the building is not 
secured during the movement.
Objective Spaces
Strategic points known as objective spaces are 
scattered around the battle maps, including 
power zones, negative zones, and spawn points. 
Objective spaces can grant benefits to the player 
who holds them and potentially hinder the player 
who does not. 
To hold an objective space, a unit must simply 
occupy the space on the map. Monsters cannot 
hold objective spaces.
Power Zones
Each time you power up (see 
“Activating Monsters,” p. 26), 
you gain one Power Die for each 
power zone held by one of your units.
Negative Zones
Each time you power up, your 
opponent loses one Power Die 
from his Power Pool for each 
negative zone held by one of your units.
Look for ways to position units to secure multiple 
buildings at the same time. Some maps have 
locations where the same three units can secure 
two buildings and hold a power zone! With clever 
selection and placement of your buildings and units, 
you can gain three or more Power Dice from just 
three units each time you power up.
Standard spawn points
Neutral spawn points do not begin the game 
under any player’s control. Instead, each player 
can try to take control of neutral spawn points 
during the game by holding the adjacent 
activators. If you have a model holding an 
activator space next to a neutral spawn point, 
then you control the spawn point and you can 
use it as one of your spawn points. If no player 
holds the activator, units cannot spawn from that 
spawn point.
Activator
Neutral 
spawn point

Starting a Game
Before setting up a game, each player rolls five 
Action Dice for the setup roll. The player who rolls 
the most strikes wins. If the setup roll is a tie, reroll.
The loser of the setup roll chooses the battle 
map for the game. The winner of the setup roll 
chooses the color zones on the battle map each 
player will use. You can use only the spawn 
points that correspond to your color. 
The winner of the setup roll also places the first 
building, places their monsters first, and takes the 
first turn.
Placing Buildings on the grid
Players take turns placing their buildings on 
the foundation spaces on the battle map, one 
building at a time, until they have placed all their 
buildings. If one player runs out of buildings 
before the other player, the player with remaining 
buildings continues placing them. Players must 
continue to place buildings until they have 
placed all the buildings from their cities or have 
run out of empty foundations on which to place 
the buildings.
Each foundation space has a colored border that 
indicates the order of building placement. Players 
must fill all green-bordered foundations before 
placing a building on a yellow foundation.
More buildings in the game means more power can 
be generated and more big power attacks will happen, 
so including as many buildings in your city as you can 
makes for more exciting games.
getting ready to play
Before the game can begin, players must decide 
how many monsters they will play with, choose 
their models, and get their dice ready to roll!
assembling your force
Your force consists of the units and monsters you 
will use in the game. All the models in your force 
must belong to the same Agenda.
Monsters
Each force must include at least one monster, and 
each player must start the game with the same 
number of monsters. All monsters are unique 
characters, so a player can bring only one of each 
monster to a game. A player can bring the same 
monster as their opponent, however.
Units
The number of units you can include in your 
force depends on the number of monsters you 
start the game with. If each player has one 
monster, you can include up to 15 units in your 
force. In a two-monster game, you can have up 
to 20 units in your force. In a three-monster 
game, you can have up to 25 units in your force.
Your units begin the game in your unit reserves 
rather than on the battle map. During the game, 
they will enter play through the map’s spawn points.
Each player must bring six to twelve buildings. 
A player cannot bring more than four of any one 
building.

Example: Jason and Will are setting up a game on 
a battle map with eight green foundations and ten 
yellow foundations. Will brought eight buildings to 
the game, and Jason brought twelve buildings. Will 
won the setup roll, so he places the first building 
on a green foundation. Jason then places one of 
his buildings on a green foundation. They continue 
alternating until all the green foundations are 
filled up, then they begin filling the yellow 
foundations. After Will runs out of buildings, Jason 
places his remaining buildings.
Remaining Setup
Once all buildings are in place, the winner of the 
setup roll places their monsters on the battle 
map, then the other player does the same. Your 
monsters must be placed so that their bases 
touch the rear edge of your side of the battle 
map. Next, make sure you have ten Action Dice in 
your Unit Pool as well as ten Power Dice and at 
least six Boost Dice in your Dice Well. Lastly, set 
your units to the side of the battle map in your 
unit reserves.
Now, with everything set up, it’s time to start 
tearing it down!

There are four phases in a Monster Activation. 
You can choose to skip any of the phases, but 
any you choose to perform must be done in the 
following order.
1. Power Phase
Begin your Monster Activation by powering up. 
When you power up, you add one Power Die to 
your Power Pool for each power zone your units 
hold and for each building your units are securing. 
In addition, your opponent loses one Power Die 
from their Power Pool for each negative zone you 
hold (see “Objective Spaces,” p. 23).
2. Advancement Phase
Each of your monsters can advance up to a 
number of spaces equal to its SPD stat (see 
“Moving on the Grid,” p. 14).
3. Attack Phase
You can spend Action Dice and Power Dice to 
have your monsters make a brawl attack, blast 
attack, or power attack. Each of your monsters 
can make only one attack per Monster Activation 
unless your monster has a special rule allowing it 
to make an additional attack.
4. Push Phase
If you have Action Dice remaining in your 
Monster Pool, you can move any number of them 
to your Unit Pool.
Remember, your monsters can also move 
by spending Action Dice to step (see p. 15).
Order of Play
Monsterpocalypse is played in a series of turns 
in which players advance and attack with their 
models until only one player has a monster left 
in play.
On your turn, you must choose to perform 
either a Monster Activation or a Unit Activation. 
To activate units or monsters, you must be 
able to spend at least one Action Die from the 
appropriate dice pool. If you have no Action 
Dice in your Monster Pool, you cannot perform 
a Monster Activation. If you have no Action Dice 
in your Unit Pool, you cannot perform a Unit 
Activation.
Because there are no Action Dice in your Monster 
Pool when you start a game, your first turn of 
every game will be a Unit Activation.
After you finish your Monster Activation or Unit 
Activation, your turn ends, and the next player 
takes a turn.
Activating Monsters
When you choose a Monster Activation, your 
Monster Pool becomes the active pool, and all 
Action Dice you spend or roll move from the 
Monster Pool to the Unit Pool after you use them.
Leave a few dice behind in each pool. It’s tempting 
to exhaust your dice pools so that you can do more 
each turn, but be careful. Sometimes having just one 
Action Die in your Monster Pool is enough to make 
your opponent think twice about body slamming your 
monster into a block of buildings. That one die could 
allow you to return the favor!

Example: Jack wants to spawn a G-Tank and a 
Sun Fighter onto two of his spawn points. Both 
have a Cost of 1, so normally they would each cost 
Jack one Action Die from his Unit Pool to spawn. 
However, Jeff has a unit on the spawn point where 
Jack wants to spawn his Sun Fighter. Jack spends 
one Action Die to move Jeff’s unit to an empty 
adjacent space, then spends another Action Die to 
spawn the Sun Fighter in that location. He then 
spends one Action Die to spawn his G-Tank on the 
other spawn point.
2. Advancement Phase
Each of your units can advance up to a number of 
spaces equal to its SPD stat (see “Moving on the 
Grid,” p. 14).
3. Attack Phase
You can attack with any number of your units on 
the battle map. Each unit can participate in one 
individual or combined attack (see “Combined 
Unit Attacks,” p. 28). You must spend at least 
one Action Die for each unit participating in an 
attack. You do not have to attack with the same 
units you advanced this turn. You can continue to 
make attacks with your units as long as you have 
Action Dice to spend and as long as you have 
units that have not yet participated in an attack 
during this Unit Activation.
4. Push Phase
If you have Action Dice dice remaining in your 
Unit Pool, you can move any number of them to 
your Monster Pool.
Activating Units
When you choose a Unit Activation, your Unit 
Pool becomes the active pool, and all Action Dice 
you spend or roll move from the Unit Pool to the 
Monster Pool when you use them.
There are four phases in a Unit Activation. As 
with Monster Activations, you can choose to skip 
any phase, but the phases must be done in order.
1. Spawn Phase
You can spend Action Dice to bring units into play 
from your unit reserves. This is called spawning. 
You can spawn any number of units as long as 
you have enough Action Dice to spend. Units 
spawned at the beginning of your turn can 
advance and attack in the same turn.
When you spawn a unit, you must spend Action 
Dice from your Unit Pool equal to the unit’s Cost. 
Then take the unit from your unit reserves and 
place it on one of your spawn points. You can 
only spawn units from your unit reserves.
If you want to spawn a unit on a spawn point 
that is already occupied by a unit, you can spend 
one Action Die to move that unit into an adjacent 
space that it can legally occupy before you pay 
the Cost for the unit you want to spawn.
Be careful about leaving one of your units on your 
opponent’s spawn point if there is an adjacent hazard. 
Your opponent might move your unit onto 
the hazard and destroy it!

Example of a combined unit attack
When making a combined brawl attack, all 
participating units must be adjacent to the target. 
For a combined blast attack, all participating units 
must have the target within their attack range.
Add up the Brawl or Blast stats of the units 
involved, depending on the type of attack, to 
determine the total number of Action Dice you 
can roll for the attack. You must spend at least 
one Action Die for each participating unit.
Example: A Belcher can spend up to two Action 
Dice when it makes a blast attack. When three 
Belchers combine for a blast attack, the roll must 
include at least three Action Dice (because there 
are three units) and can include up to six Action 
Dice (two for each Belcher).
Oz is making a combined attack with the following 
units: Elite G-Tank, Grunt G-Tank, Elite Sun Fighter, 
Grunt Sun Fighter. 
Oz is attacking Will’s Ares Mothership, which is in 
hyper form (DEF 8). Oz chooses the Elite G-Tank to lead 
the attack. The Elite G-Tank is within two spaces of the 
Grunt G-Tank, and the Elite Sun Fighter is within two 
space of the Grunt Sun Fighter, so both grunt models 
benefit from the elite models’ Commander special rules. 
Additionally, neither G-Tank moved this activation, so 
both benefit from Aim. Further, since the Grunt Sun 
Fighter and the Elite Sun Fighter are participating in a 
combined attack against a model with Flight, they both 
benefit from Anti-Air.
Oz totals up the dice he can potentially roll when 
resolving this combined attack: eight Action Dice 
and eight Boost Dice. Oz chooses to roll four Action 
Dice (one for each participating model) and all eight 
Boost Dice. He rolls nine strikes for a hit, so Will’s Ares 
Mothership suffers 1 damage point from the attack.
Relevant special rules of these models are as follows:
Aim – This model gains +1 Blast Boost Die if it did not move 
this activation.
Anti-Air – If this model participates in a brawl or blast attack 
targeting a model with Flight, this model gains +1 boost dice.
Commander: G-Tank – Allied G-Tank Grunt units within two 
spaces of this unit gain +1 Boost Die when participating in 
brawl or blast attacks.
Commander: Sun Fighter – Allied Sun Fighter Grunt units 
within two spaces of this unit gain +1 Boost Die when 
participating in brawl or blast attacks.
Combined Unit Attacks
A single unit has almost no chance of causing 
damage to a monster on its own, but combined 
units attacking together can pose a powerful 
threat. Two or more units can combine attacks of 
the same type (brawl or blast) in order to create 
a more powerful attack with a greater chance 
of hitting and causing damage. Units cannot 
combine brawl attacks with blast attacks.
To make a combined unit attack, choose one unit 
to lead the combined attack and declare which 
other units will participate. The model leading 
the attack is considered to be the attacking 
model for resolving any special rules.
elite sun fighter
sun fighter
elite g-tank

A player wins the game when all of their 
opponent’s monsters are destroyed.
If you must end your game before one player 
has destroyed all the opponent’s monsters, the 
player with the most monsters remaining in 
play wins. If both players have the same number 
of monsters in play, add up the damage points 
on each players’ monsters, including those that 
have been destroyed. The player whose monsters 
have suffered the least amount of damage is the 
winner. If the amounts of damage are the same, 
the game ends in a draw.
If the combined attack roll hits, the target is 
damaged. A combined attack does only one point 
of damage no matter how many units participate 
in the attack. Additionally, a combined attack 
counts as only one attack regardless of how many 
units participate.
Units participating in a combined attack must 
roll all the Boost Dice they have for that type of 
attack. If you do not spend an Action Die for a 
unit to participate in an attack, however, you 
cannot include its Boost Dice.
Units making a combined attack can benefit from 
all the special rules affecting the participating 
models. Although each model participating in 
the attack can benefit from the same-named 
special rule only once, the combined attack can 
benefit from each model that has the same 
special rule. In other words, the effects 
of same-named rules can be 
cumulative in a combined 
attack.
Example: The Anti-Air special 
rule grants an extra Boost Die 
to a model when it attacks a target 
with Flight. If three models with Anti-Air 
combine to attack a flying target together, 
you can add three Boost Dice to the roll, one for 
each instance of Anti-Air.
Remember, a unit can participate in only one attack 
each turn. If a unit participated in a combined attack, 
it cannot make an attack of its own in the same turn.
cthugrosh

Example: Hyper Gorghadra hits Alpha Armodax 
with a brawl attack. Hyper Gorghadra has the 
Annihilate special rule, which causes its attacks to 
do super damage. Normally, a monster hit by this 
attack would take two points of damage (one for 
the brawl attack and one for super damage), but 
Alpha Armodax has the Resilience special rule, 
which makes it immune to super damage. Alpha 
Armodax takes only one point of damage.
Applying Special Rules
The special rules of individual models take 
precedence over the general rules in this rulebook.
same name would affect a single model, apply 
same name would affect a single attack, apply 
same name would affect a single power-up, apply 
Example: The Force Field special rule gives a model 
+1 DEF against blast attacks, and a model can gain 
Force Field from multiple sources. Regardless of 
how many instances of Force Field are affecting it, 
a model can gain the +1 DEF against blast attacks 
from Force Field only once. Similarly, a model can 
benefit only once from Cover, which also gives 
+1 DEF against blast attacks. However, because 
Force Field and Cover have different names, a model 
can benefit from both at once for a combined 
+2 DEF against blast attacks.
The models in Monsterpocalypse can do much 
more than just move around and make brawl, 
blast, and power attacks. They also have a variety 
of special rules, as noted on their cards.
When the text of a special rule refers to 
“Faction,” it means the Faction of the model that 
has the rule.
Actions
Actions are a type of special rule that require you 
to spend an Action Die to use. On models’ stat 
cards, these rules begin with the word “Action.” 
Your monsters can use their Actions rules only 
during a Monster Activation, and your units can 
use their Actions only during a Unit Activation. 
Some buildings also have Actions. A building 
can perform Actions only while secured and only 
during a Unit Activation.
During the Advancement or Attack Phase, a 
model can perform an Action by spending one 
Action Die from the active pool. An Action cannot 
interrupt a model’s advancement or attack.
You can use each Action only once during each 
of your activations, and each of your models can 
perform only one Action each activation.
Immunity
Some models have rules that make them immune 
to certain types of attacks or effects. When a 
model has an immunity, it cannot be harmed or 
affected by that type of attack or effect. 

Collisions
A collision occurs when a monster is forced 
to move through or occupy a space already 
occupied by another monster, a unit, a hazard, or 
a building. Some power attacks and special rules 
can cause collisions.
•	 When a monster collides with a unit, the unit 
is destroyed.
•	 When a monster collides with a building, the 
building is destroyed and the monster takes 
one point of damage.
•	 When a monster collides with a hazard, the 
monster suffers the effects of that hazard. 
When a monster collides with a building and 
a hazard is created, the monster also collides 
with the hazard.
•	 When a monster collides with another 
monster, both monsters take one point of 
damage. Place the monster that moved in the 
last spaces that it could occupy before 
colliding with the other monster.
Super damage is different from collision damage. 
Being immune to super damage does not mean a 
model is immune to the extra damage caused by 
collisions with buildings and hazards!
Timing of Special Rules
A number of special rules can be triggered as part 
of the same attack. Some rules take effect after the 
attack has been resolved, but others are resolved 
as part of the attack in the following order:
1.	The attacking player’s special rules that 
trigger on a hit are resolved, in the order 
chosen by that player.
2.	The other player’s special rules that trigger 
on a hit resolve, in the order chosen by that 
player.
3.	The attacking player’s special rules that 
trigger on destroying a model are resolved, in 
the order chosen by that player.
4.	The other player’s special rules that trigger 
on a model being destroyed are resolved, in 
the order chosen by that player.
5.	The attacking player’s special rules that 
are resolved “immediately after an attack is 
resolved” are resolved, in order chosen by 
that player.
6.	The other player’s special rules that are 
resolved “immediately after an attack is 
resolved” are resolved, in order chosen by 
that player.
If a model is removed from the battle map before 
its special rules are triggered, those rules do not 
take effect.

Example: Defender X body slams Gorghadra. 
Gorghadra is moved into the spaces aligned to 
the right of Defender X’s base. A Skyscraper and a 
Belcher occupy those spaces, so the Belcher and 
the building are destroyed as Gorghadra slams onto 
them. The Skyscraper is replaced with a hazard. 
Gorghadra takes one damage point from the hit, 
one damage for colliding with the building, and one 
damage for the hazard. Defender X gains one Power 
Die for destroying the Belcher and two Power Die 
for the building destroyed under Gorghadra.
Monsters can perform special attacks called 
power attacks. These power attacks include body 
slam, ram, rampage, stomp, swat, and throw.
Each power attack does one point of damage 
when it hits as well as having power attack effects 
that can cause the target monster to be moved. 
You must roll at least one Power Die and one 
Action Die when making a power attack, and you 
must declare the use of a particular power attack 
before you make your power attack roll.
Body Slam
Your monster picks up another monster and 
slams it to the ground.
To make a body slam power attack, the attacking 
monster must be aligned (see p. 17) with 
the target monster. If a body slam attack hits, 
place the target monster in a new location also 
aligned with the attacking monster. You can only 
body slam a monster into unoccupied spaces or 
spaces occupied by buildings or units. You cannot 
perform a body slam if you cannot move the 
target monster to a valid new location.
The body-slammed monster collides with each 
building, unit, and hazard occupying the spaces 
where it is placed.
Before the body slam
After the body slam
belcher
belcher destroyed

Ram
Your monster bashes its body into a building 
to hit enemies on the other side with flying 
wreckage.
A monster aligned with a building can make a 
ram power attack targeting the building. If a ram 
attack hits, the building is destroyed. A monster 
on the opposite side of the building and B2B 
with it takes one damage point. Any units B2B 
with the building on the opposite side are 
destroyed.
A ram power attack targets a building, 
not a monster or unit.
Example: Your Gorghadra attempts to ram a 
Skyscraper that has DEF 7. You roll five Action 
Dice, four Boost Dice, and one Power Dice. The 
attack hits with seven strikes and destroys the 
Skyscraper. In addition, since Defender X and a 
G-Tank are on the other side, Defender X takes one 
damage point and the G-Tank is destroyed when 
debris from the building falls on them. Gorghadra 
then gains two Power Die for destroying the 
Skyscraper and another Power Die for destroying 
the G-Tank.
Be careful. If your units are on the other side 
of a falling building after your ram power attack, 
they will be destroyed as well!
terra khan

Example: Liz is rampaging with Alpha Gorghadra. 
She starts by taking three Action Dice from her 
Monster Pool, adds four Boost Dice that Gorghadra 
receives for power attacks, and adds three Power 
Dice for a total of ten dice. She rolls six strikes and 
begins moving Gorghadra, comparing the number 
of strikes she rolled to the DEF of each building 
and unit in Gorghadra’s path. The six strikes hit 
the Downtown Highrise and the G-Tank but not 
the Skyscraper. Gorghadra must stop moving 
just before entering the spaces occupied by the 
Skyscraper. Liz gains three Power Dice, one for 
the destroyed G-Tank and two for destroying the 
Downtown Highrise.
Rampage
Your monster charges straight ahead in an attempt 
to destroy every building and unit in its path.
A monster cannot make a rampage power attack 
if it has advanced this turn, so you have to decide 
if you want to rampage before you advance your 
monster. Make one attack roll for the rampage 
attack; you will compare the result to the DEF 
of every unit and building through which the 
monster rampages.
Begin moving your monster in a straight line. 
Before your monster enters a space occupied by 
a building or unit, compare the number of strikes 
you rolled for the rampage attack to the DEF of 
the building or unit.
If the rampage attack hits a building, the building 
is destroyed, and the monster continues moving. 
If the attack misses a building, the monster stops.
If the rampage attack hits a unit, the unit is 
destroyed. Whether or not the unit is destroyed, 
the monster continues moving.
If a space the rampaging monster would move 
into is occupied by another monster, the 
rampaging monster stops.
The rampaging monster must continue moving 
until it moves the maximum distance allowed 
by its SPD or until it is forced to stop. Any units 
occupying the spaces where the rampaging 
monster stops are destroyed.
The rampaging monster is immune to hazards 
while moving, but a monster that ends its 
rampage movement on a hazard suffers the 
effects of that hazard.
Watch your step! A rampage power attack can 
destroy all units in the monster’s path, even allies.
Before the rampage attack
After the rampage attack
Models with Flight ignore hazards, so a flying monster 
that ends its rampage on a hazard is not affected by 
the hazard. Also, try stepping before you rampage to 
line your monster up for a more destructive path!
downtown highrise

Swat
Your monster smacks a nearby unit to send it 
flying toward another model or building.
To make a swat power attack, your monster first 
makes a power attack against an adjacent unit. If 
this attack hits, the unit is destroyed, and you can 
target an enemy model or building within five 
spaces of the unit hit and make a second attack 
against the target by rolling the dice in play (see 
“Dice in Play,” p. 10). A building or unit hit by 
this attack is destroyed, and a monster hit takes 
one damage point.
Stomp
Your monster slams a part of its body (usually a 
foot, but a tail or a tentacle can work, too) into 
the ground to crush all nearby units with the 
force of impact.
When your monster makes a stomp power attack, 
roll once for the attack, and flip all hazards that 
are under or adjacent to the attacking monster to 
the rubble side. Compare the number of strikes to 
the DEF of all units adjacent to the monster. Units 
hit are destroyed.
Even flying units are hit by a stomp power attack.
You can stomp next to a hazard tile to flip it to 
its rubble side even if there are no adjacent units. 
Stomping will still cost you one Action Die from your 
Monster Pool and one Power Die, but the attack 
will succeed regardless of the roll.
rogzor

throw example
Richard wants his Alpha Gorghadra to throw Hyper 
Defender X. Alpha Gorghadra’s Power stat is 7 with 
four Boost Dice, so Richard rolls five Action Dice, adds 
four Boost Dice, and adds five Power Dice for a total 
of fourteen dice. He rolls ten strikes, so the attack hits 
against Hyper Defender X’s DEF of 8. Richard has some 
options for where to place Defender X and decides the 
best spot is five spaces directly away from Gorghadra 
(one space for each Power Die rolled). Defender X 
cannot be thrown on top of the Ares Mothership. 
Defender X collides with the G-Tank and the Downtown 
Highrise in those spaces. The building bursts into flame 
and turns into a hazard, and the G-Tank is destroyed. 
Defender X takes one damage point from the throw, one 
damage point from the collision with the building, and 
one damage point from the hazard. Richard then gains 
one Power Die for the destroyed G-Tank and two for the 
destroyed building.
Throw
Your monster lifts another monster off the 
ground and throws it through the air.
To make a throw power attack, the attacking 
monster must be aligned with the target 
monster. When a throw attack hits, the attacker 
can place the target monster in a new location. 
The new location must be within the area 
shown in the diagram below and can be a 
number of spaces away from the monster’s 
current location up to the number of Power Dice 
rolled for the throw attack.
The thrown monster can be placed in the highlighted area
before throw
after throw
You can throw a monster into any spaces except 
spaces occupied by a monster. You cannot 
perform a throw power attack if you cannot move 
the target monster to a valid location.
The target monster collides with each building, 
unit, and hazard occupying the spaces where it 
is placed.

Setup
Choose one player to be the monster player who 
controls Gorghadra. The other player is the unit 
player who controls the Planet Eater units.
Set aside the G.U.A.R.D. units and monster.
Choose any battle map and place Gorghadra in 
one of the two corners on the side with the red 
spawn points (see “Spawn Points,” p. 23).
Next, place ten apartment buildings on the map, 
starting with the green foundations. When the 
green foundations are full, place the remaining 
apartments on yellow foundations on the same 
side of the map as Gorghadra (see “Placing 
Buildings on the Grid,” p. 24). Randomly place 
a padlock token on each building with the 
numbered side face down.
Stat cards are not used in this scenario.
The monster player plays with ten white dice. The 
unit player plays with three white dice, three blue 
dice, and twenty red dice.
The unit player places a Planet Eater unit on 
each of the red spawn points on the battle map.
Finally, place a G.U.A.R.D. unit adjacent to each 
building, starting with the buildings closest to 
Gorghadra.
A Cooperative Scenario
This scenario allows two players to play a 
cooperative minigame using components from 
the first two Monsterpocalypse starter boxes. 
The scenario uses only some of the rules of 
Monsterpocalypse, giving players a chance 
become familiar with how movement and attacks 
function in the game.
You can find more co-op scenarios at 
monsterpocalypse.com.
Overview
In this scenario, Gorghadra is trying to destroy 
a city before Defender X can arrive to save it. 
Two players team up as the Planet Eater force 
and work together to attack the city, which is 
defended by a G.U.A.R.D. force controlled by the 
rules of the scenario.
Monsterpocalypse: Downtown Demolition

example scenario setup
Monster player
unit player
G.U.A.R.D. 
Units & Monster

Next, move each G.U.A.R.D. unit up to six spaces, 
unless it is already adjacent to a building with a 
padlock token. When a G.U.A.R.D. unit moves, it 
moves toward the building closest to Gorghadra 
that has a padlock token and does not already 
have a G.U.A.R.D. unit adjacent to it. If the unit 
reaches that building, it stops. If all of the 
buildings already have an adjacent G.U.A.R.D. 
unit, a G.U.A.R.D. unit moves toward the closest 
Planet Eater unit.
After all G.U.A.R.D. units have moved, each can 
make a ranged attack against a Planet Eater unit 
within five spaces. When a unit attacks, roll three 
white dice and two blue dice. If the roll results 
in four or more strikes, the Planet Eater unit is 
destroyed and is removed from the map.
If Defender X is on the map after G.U.A.R.D. units 
complete their attacks, move Defender X up 
to eight spaces toward the closest building to 
Gorghadra with a padlock token. Defender X can 
move through spaces occupied by other models 
but cannot end in a space with another model.
After Defender X moves, it can fire its lasers at 
Gorghadra if it is within range. If Gorghadra is 
less than seven spaces away from Defender X, roll 
three blue dice. For each strike Defender X rolls, 
the monster player gives a red die back to the 
unit player.
If Defender X is adjacent to a building with a 
padlock token after making its attack, remove 
the token and place it next to the map with the 
number showing. Defender X scores the number 
of points shown on the token.
Playing the Game
When moving a model or counting the range for 
an attack, only one diagonal can be used.
Each round is composed of three turns: the unit 
turn, the G.U.A.R.D. turn, and the monster turn.
The Unit Turn
The unit player takes the first turn. If any Planet 
Eater units have been destroyed in previous 
rounds, the unit player starts by rolling two blue 
dice and then spawns a number of their units on 
red spawn points equal to the number of strikes 
rolled (see “Strikes & Misses”, p. 10).
Each unit can move up to six spaces (see “Moving 
on the Grid,” p. 14). Units cannot move into 
spaces occupied by monsters, units, or buildings. 
If a unit stops on, or does not move off of, a 
power zone (see battle map on p. 21), the unit 
player gives the monster player a red die.
After moving, all Planet Eater units can make 
attacks (p. 18) targeting enemy units up to five 
spaces away. When a unit attacks, roll three white 
dice and two blue dice. If the roll results in four 
or more strikes, the enemy unit is destroyed. It is 
removed from the map, and the unit player gives 
the monster player a red die.
The G.U.A.R.D. Turn
After the unit turn, the defenders of the city take 
a turn.
First, GUARD units that were destroyed earlier 
return to play. Place a previously destroyed 
G.U.A.R.D. unit on each blue spawn point, starting 
with the spawn point closest to Gorghadra.

The Monster Turn
The monster player starts by moving Gorghadra 
up to six spaces. Gorghadra can move through 
spaces containing units but cannot end its 
movement in a space occupied by a unit.
After moving, Gorghadra can attack adjacent 
buildings and units. When rolling for Gorghadra’s 
attacks, the monster player can include any 
number of their white and red dice but must roll 
at least one white die. The monster player can 
roll each die only once a turn and returns any 
red dice rolled to the unit player. Gorghadra can 
continue attacking as long as the monster player 
has white dice to roll.
When attacking a building, if Gorghadra rolls 
five strikes plus one strike for each G.U.A.R.D. 
unit adjacent to the building, the building is 
destroyed. The building is removed from the map, 
and the unit player gives the monster player two 
red dice. When a building with a padlock token is 
destroyed, the monster player scores the number 
of points shown on the token.
When attacking a unit, if Gorghadra rolls four or 
more strikes, the unit is destroyed. The unit is 
removed from the map, and the unit player gives 
the monster player one red die.
The first time the monster player ends a turn 
with five or more points, place Defender X on the 
corner of the map closest to Gorghadra.
After the monster turn, a new round begins with 
the unit player’s turn.
If Gorghadra smashes enough buildings to score 
15 points before Defender X scores 15 points, the 
Planet Eaters win!

Action Dice, 9, 10
Actions, Action special 
rules, 30
activators, 23
active pool, 10
adjacent, 16
Advancement Phase, 14, 
26, 27
advancing, 14
Agendas, 4
aligned, 16, 17
allies, 4
alpha form, 20
Attack Phase, 14, 26, 27
attack rolls, 18
base-to-base (B2B), 16, 17
battle maps, 9, 21
blast attacks, 12, 18
body slam power attack, 32
Boost Dice, 9, 11
brawl attacks, 12, 18
buildings, 7, 22, 24
collisions, 31
combined unit attack, 28
Cost, 12
Cover, 16
damaging models, 20
debris tiles, 7, 22
Defense (DEF) stat, 12
Destroyers, 5
destroying models, 20
dice in play, 10
Dice Well, 9, 11
dice, 9
elite units, 7
enemies, 4
Factions, Faction models, 4
force, 24
foundations, 22
grunt units, 7
hazards, 22
health track, 13, 20
High Mobility, 12, 16
hyper form, 20
immunity, immune, 30
impassible terrain, 15
misses, 10
Monster Activation, 14, 26
Monster Pool, 9, 10
monsters, 6, 24
negative zones, 23
neutral spawn points, 23
objective spaces, 23
open terrain, 15
power attacks, 19, 32
Power Dice, 9, 11
Power Phase, 14, 26
Power Pool, 9, 11
power zones, 23
Protectors, 5
Push Phase, 14, 26, 27
ram power attack, 33
rampage power attack, 34
Range (RNG) stat, 12
rough terrain, 15
rubble, 22
securing a building, 22
setup roll, 24
Spawn Phase, 14, 27
spawn points, 23
spawning, 27
special rules, 30
Speed (SPD) stat, 12
standard spawn points, 23
starting a game, 24
stat cards, 12
stepping, 15
stomp power attack, 35
strikes, 10
super damage, 20
super strikes, 10
swat power attack, 35
target models, 19
terrain, 15
throw power attack, 36
timing of special rules, 31
Unit Activation, 14, 27
Unit Pool, 9, 10
unit reserves, 7
units, 7, 24
index

Attackers from beyond space and time and from beneath the 
lands and oceans have engulfed the world in catastrophic 
conflict. Cities are now battlegrounds as giant monsters and 
their hordes of minions rampage through urban landscapes, 
level buildings, crush obstacles, and fight to achieve their 
own mysterious goals. Gather your units, build your city, and 
prepare to demolish everything in your path!
It’s time to Reach Out and Crush Someone!