7+
3~8
2 0 m i n
Nunber of 
Players
Number of
Cards
Take the following cards from the general deck to make the 
starting deck:
1 Hunter, 1 Hide, 1 Wanted
Shuffle the general deck and take a number of cards 
according to player count as indicated below and add them 
to the starting deck:
One player is the monster, others may be hunters. How can you tell 
who is who? As the cards keep getting exchanged, the identity 
of the monster remains vague. In one turn you can be a hunter 
trying to capture the monster and in the next moment you 
might become the monster escaping the hunters!
Shuffle the 5 Monster cards and set them aside facedown 
as the Monster deck.
Place the Victory Point (VP) tokens next to the Monster 
deck.
Make a general deck with the remaining cards.
Game Preparation
Round Setup

Take a card from the Monster deck and add it to the starting 
deck to complete it. Now, no one should know what cards 
are in the starting deck except the 3 cards taken out in step 1.
Shuffle the starting deck and deal 4 cards to each player.
Place the remaining general deck in the center of the play 
area.
Note: Be careful not to mix the Monster deck and the 
general deck.
The player who has the Wanted card in his hand begins the 
round by playing it. The Wanted card has no effect except 
for determining the starting player.
Take turns in a clockwise order. Each player will play only 
one card each turn. The played cards are placed in front of 
the player who played them.
The round ends when the Monster card is played or forced 
to be discarded by a Hunter or Dog card (see below for 
details).
Scoring
Note: As players don’t refill their hand, each round will 
last a maximum of 4 turns per player.
1 Hunter
Choose another player.
If he has the Monster card, he discards it.
Hunter
Red Riding Hood 
1 Wanted
1 Hide
Hunter cards have no effect on you 
if you have this card in your hand. 
You do not have to reveal it.
1 Random Monster
Take 1 additional point if you win 
(3 VPs total).
Vampire
You can play this card if 2 Hunter cards 
have been played.
Werewolf 
Hunter cards have no effect if this card 
is the last card in your hand.
Goomiho 
First Hunter card played has no effect 
on you.
Mermaid 
You can play this card if 2 Villager cards 
have been played.
Mandrake
other cards
Round Overview

Give this card to another player.
He discards 1 card facedown and adds 
the Dog card to his hand.
Dog 
Hunter cards have no effect on you 
if you have this card in your hand. 
You do not have to reveal it.
Each player draws 1 card from 
the hand of the player to their right.
Rumor
Each player chooses 1 card and 
gives it to the player to their left.
Gossip
Draw 1 card from a player's hand, 
then give him 1 card. 
(You may give the same card you took.)
Steal
Monsters can only be played on the last turn of a round.
Hunters can not be played on the first turn of a round.
The colored numbers on some cards are a reminder for these 
restrictions: 
 may not be played during the turn (here, the 1st turn)
 may be played during the turn (here, the 1st), but without 
effect
 may be played during the turn (here, the 3rd) if the 
condition is met
 may be played during the turn (here, the 4th)
When a card effect contradicts the rules, the card effect 
takes priority.
Cards discarded: Depending on the card that caused the 
discarding,cards go to different places to allow the players to 
keep a better overview:
Discarded by the Friend effect: Discard to the bottom of the 
general deck.
Discarded by the Dog effect: Discard facedown to the pile 
of played cards of the player who played the dog.
General Rules

Dog
If you force a player to discard the Monster with the Dog, 
you win the round immediately!
However, be aware that when you play the Dog, the target 
player chooses which card to discard. So most likely you will 
only manage to catch the Monster with the Dog if it is the last 
card in a player’s hand.
The Hide card (and certain Monsters) allows a player to ignore 
any Hunter effects as long as it is in the player’s hands. These 
cards are not revealed when you use their effect.
Note: Hide does not protect you from the Dog discard 
effect!
Friend
When you play a Friend card, you become the monster’s 
friend and win or lose the game with the monster!
When a player is forced to discard the Monster by a Friend, 
it is a Friend’s Betrayal! In this case, the Friend will also lose 
the game!
Note: Unplayed Friend cards have no effect.
Hunter
If you force a player to discard the Monster with a Hunter, 
you win the round immediately!
But be careful: Certain cards allow the targeted player to 
ignore your Hunter!
Note: You cannot play a Hunter card during the first turn 
of a round.
If you play the Monster, you win the round immediately!
Remember that the Monster can only be played on your last 
turn of a round or if its special condition is fulfilled.
Special Cards

The cards used this round are put back in the general deck, 
except the Monster card, which is set aside.
Start the next round with a new Monster.
The game ends after the scoring of the 5th round. The winner 
is the player with the most VP. If there is a tie, the tied players 
share the victory. If you still want to decide the sole winner, 
shuffle the used Monster cards and begin an additional round 
until the sole winner is decided.
Scoring (at the end of each round)
New Round
Game End
If the Monster was successfully played: Monster & Friends 
gain 2 VP.
If the Monster was discarded: The player who forced the 
Monster card to be discarded gains 2 VP. Everyone else, 
except Monster & Friends, gains 1 VP.
If the Monster was forced to be discarded by a Friend: 
Everyone, except Monster & Friends, gains 1 VP.
Each player takes the necessary VP tokens as a reminder.

What happens if I have four Hunters – or three Hunters and 
the Monster – when the round begins?
You should discard a Hunter facedown to your pile of played cards 
without effect and skip your turn. This card does not count for the 
special ability of the Werewolf or Mermaid.
What happens if I use a Fog, Gossip, Rumor, or Deal as my 
last card and have no more cards left in my hand? 
Since they need another card to resolve the card effect, those 
cards are then played without any effect.
If the first Hunter card is discarded, for example by a Friend 
or a Dog, does the Mermaid lose her ability? 
No, the Mermaid can still ignore the first Hunter card which is 
played, because the discarded Hunter does not count as played.
Does the Werewolf count discarded Hunter cards to use his 
ability?
No, the Werewolf counts only played Hunters and not discarded 
ones.
When playing Deal, who chooses whether 1 or 2 cards 
are exchanged?
The player who played Deal chooses the number of cards 
exchanged.
When playing Steal, can I give back the card I just stole?
Yes!
What happens if the player chosen by a Friend card has no 
Hunter card?
Nothing happens but the player who played the Friend card still 
becomes the monster’s friend. 
FAQ
Author: Pesu Nabeno | Illustrations: Sunju
Copyright © 2015 Korea Boardgames Co.,Ltd. 
All rights reserved.
English version:
All rights reserved.
© 2015 F2Z Entertainment Inc.
31 rue de la Coopérative
Rigaud QC J0P 1P0
Canada
www.zmangames.com