Game Rules
What’s going on here?
The monsters are loose again!!! 
Well, that’s actually not a bad thing — they make living in this mansion really fun! But 
right now, Grandma Frieda is standing outside the front door and she is terribly frightened of 
monsters. You must catch all the monsters and hide them from Grandma before she sees them! 
The monster cards show which monster must be captured next. Use the sliders to push the 
monster as quickly as possible to the middle of the mansion and into the monster trap! You will 
have to work together on teams to do this.
Whoever has pushed the most monsters into the trap by the end of the game and collected the 
most monster cards is the best monster catcher — and wins the game.
For 2 to 4 players 
Ages 6 and up
You will find the game setup information on the next page.
Authors: Inka and Markus Brand
Illustration: Michael Menzel
Design: Fine Tuning, Michaela Kienle
Editor: Sandra Dochtermann
Additional Art: Dan Freitas
English Edition Editing: Camille Duhamel, Ted McGuire
Little Vanilla
Ukulele Larry
Bella Mozzarella
Willie von Chili
Professor Munchie
Rita Ruby
Papa Pepe
Franky
Five Eyes 
Mac Hammer
Just Gus
Johnnie Rocker
Cuddly
Carl
© 2011 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG
Pfizerstr. 5-7, D-70184 Stuttgart, Germany. Phone: 
+49 711 2191-0; Web: kosmos.de
© 2016 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA
Thames & Kosmos® is a registered trademark of 
Thames & Kosmos, LLC. All rights reserved.
Printed in Germany / Imprimé en Allemagne
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, 
LLC. Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872; Web: thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos 
UK, LP. Goudhurst, Kent TN17 2QZ 
Phone: 01580 212000; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk

ON YOUR MONSTER, GET SET, GO!
The 3- and 4-player versions of this game are played in teams, proceeding 
clockwise. Rules for the 2-player version can be found on page 4. 
Each player plays on two teams of two: one team with the player to the left and one with the 
player to the right. The oldest player and the player on his or her left start as the first team. 
The following example shows how the teams are formed.
	 	 
	
When it is your team’s turn, you must decide who is responsible for which pair of sliders on 
each side of the mansion: One player controls the vertical sliders, while the other player controls 
the horizontal sliders. See the example below. Put the mansion between both of you so that each 
player can reach both of the sliders.
The other players are responsible for the hourglass timer.
They call out “On your monster, get set, go!“ and flip the hourglass over ...
Now it is up to you to capture as many monsters as possible before 
the sand in the hourglass runs out!
HOW DO YOU CATCH THE MONSTERS?
	 1.	Bring the sliders into their starting positions.
	 	 In order to capture a new monster, the sliders 
	 	 must always be in the starting positions on 
	 	 the edges of the box! Only then can 
	 	 you reach all the monsters and push them 
	 	 in all directions.
	 2.	Reveal a monster card.
	 	 Reveal the top card from the deck of monster cards — this is the monster you 
are looking for. Quickly find where the monster token is on the game board!
	 3.	Move the sacked monster into the monster trap. 
	
Place the sacked monster on the token of the monster that you are looking for. 
From now on you are only allowed to move the sacked monster piece using the 
sliders — you cannot touch it! 
Move the monster as fast as you can through the corridors until it falls into 
the trap in the center of the board! To do this, use your left and right sliders. 
Communicate with your teammate. Say who pushes when and in which direction!
Example:
Yellow 
Player
Second Team
Yellow Player
Purple Player 
Third Team
Purple Player
Orange Player 
First Team
Yellow Player
(oldest player)
Orange Player
Fourth Team
Example for 4 players:

END OF GAME
	 	 Note! What happens if the sacked monster falls over or leaves the maze?
	 	 You have pushed the monster too hard and it has escaped! You have to place the sacked 
monster piece back on the token of the monster you are looking for and then push it back into 
the monster trap. 
	 	 Tip for the other players: Watch the players whose turn it is carefully to make sure that 
	 	 the sacked monster is moving properly. If it falls over or leaves the maze, then you can 
	 	 shout, “Escape!”
	4.	Place the monster card on the tray.
		 If you have pushed the monster into the monster trap, then 
		 quickly place the monster card on your team’s discard pile.
	5.	Catching the next monster:
		 If the hourglass has not run out, you can still try to catch 
the next monster as described in steps 1 though 4. The 
monsters can also escape from the monster trap again 
and again, so you may have to trap the same monster 
several times.
END OF ROUND
When the hourglass runs out, the other players shout, ”Monster Trap!“
You must stop moving the sliders immediately. If the last monster has not been pushed 
into the trap, then you cannot place the monster card on your discard pile. 
Instead, place the card face up next to the monster deck.
Now throw one of your eye tokens into the monster trap!
This ends the round for your team.
NOW IT IS THE NEXT TEAM’S TURN ...
The next team (in the example on page 2, it is the yellow and purple players’ turn) now places the mansion 
between them. The other players take the hourglass, shout “On your monster, get set, go!” ... and 
flip the hourglass over. Now the new team tries to catch as many monsters as possible.
After each team has taken its turn, the first team plays again and so on.
If the deck of monster cards is used up, shuffle all the face up cards that were placed next to 
the deck and continue to play with the new deck. 
After 12 rounds, when all the eye tokens are in the monster trap, the game ends. Each team 
counts the collected monster cards on its common discard pile.
	 •	First, the team that collected the most monster cards is named the Top Monster-Catching 
	 	 Team.

	 •	Then each player adds the number of monster cards from each team they were in together. 
	 	 The player who collected the largest number of cards is named the Very Best Monster Catcher 
	 	 and wins the game.
In the case of a tie, there are several winners. Alternatively, you can count the number of open 
eyes on the monster cards each tied player has won (there are monsters with 0, 2, 3, and 5 eyes 
open). Whoever has collected the most open eyes wins. 
RULES FOR TWO PLAYERS
Play as described above, but with the following changes:
	 •	 Each player plays by himself or herself. The monster discard pile is 
	 	 made up of the two pieces of the player’s color and are placed directly 
	 	 in front of you.
	 •	 The game is played over six rounds. Each player takes three eye tokens and places them next 
to his or her discard tile. The remaining six are not used and can be set aside.
	 •	 Each player moves all four sliders on their own, so they are given twice as much time per round. 
Once the hourglass has run out the other player immediately flips it over once again. Only 
when the hourglass has run out a second time does the other player shout “Monster trap!”
VARIATIONS
FOR EXPERIENCED MONSTER CATCHERS 
Experienced monster catchers (skilled players, older siblings, 
or adults who play against children) can increase the challenge 
by using the 6 location cards. 
Play as described previously, but with the following changes:
	 •	The location cards are shuffled and placed in a stack face down next to the box.
	 •	The team whose turn it is must draw a location card each time they draw a 
	 	 monster card and place it face up next to the pile of location cards.
	 •	The location card shows where on the game board the monster must go to before being 
	 	 pushed into the monster trap; otherwise the monster will get upset. For example, the 
	 	 monster may need to go to the bathroom, pet the cat, or grab something to eat from the 	
	 	 refrigerator.
	 •	The other player will check whether the sacked monster is pushed over the correct location 
on the game board.
	 •	When the hourglass has run out, the location cards are shuffled again and placed into a 
	 	 face down pile.
FOR YOUNGER CHILDREN
If you want, you can also play in two fixed teams. For example, the red 
and yellow players can play against the purple and orange players.
680305-02-031216