Mordheim
By Tuomas Pirinen with Rick Priestley & Alessio Cavatore
Living Rulebook Editing 
Jake Thornton & Andy Hall
Living Rulebook Production 
Gareth Roach
Mordheim Rules Committee
Ian Davies, Mark Dewis, Mark Havener, Nick Kyme, Terry Maltman and Andy Hall
Illustrious Illustrators & Embellishers
John Blanche, Alex Boyd, David Gallagher, 
Nuala Kennedy, Karl Kopinski, Paul Smith John Wigley & Neil Hodgson
Compositions and Layouts
John Blanche, Alan Merrett & Talima Fox
Design of the Miniatures
Dave Andrews, Mark Bedford, Colin Dixon, Gary Morley, Aly Morrison, 
Trish Morrison, Brian Nelson, Alan Perry & Michael Perry
Storytelling
Gavin Thorpe
& many thanks to the following 
Joshua Thaler, Sarah Groves, Antti Vierikko, Tuomas Lähdeoja, 
Alfred Nunez, Tim Huckelbery, Jeremy Vetock, Brian Lang, 
Lindsey le Doux Priestley, Mark Havener, Nigel Stillman, 
Atte Roine and all the other people without whose help this game 
would not have been possible!
PRODUCED IN A MOOD OF MADNESS BY GAMES WORKSHOP
© The copyright in all text, artwork and images herein are the property of Games Workshop 
Limited 2005. All Rights Reserved. 
The Games Workshop logo, Games Workshop, Warhammer, Augur, Beastmen, Brethren, Cult of the Possessed, 
Darksoul, Dreg, Eshin Sorcerer, Flagellant, Magister, Mordheim, Night Runner, Rat Ogre, Skaven, Sister of Sigmar, 
Verminkin, Warhound, Witch Hunter, Youngblood and Zealot and all associated marks, names, characters, illustrations 
and images from the Warhammer universe are either ®, TM and/or © Games Workshop Ltd 1999-2004, 
where applicable registered in the UK and other countries around the world, All Rights Reserved.
No toads or rats were harmed during the production of Mordheim. Several fish were consumed.

Contents
Rules
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Characteristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
The Turn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Shooting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Close Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Leadership & Psychology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Weapons & Armour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Miscellaneous Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Magic. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Warbands
Starting Out. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Warbands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Mercenaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
The Cult of the Possessed . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Witch Hunters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
The Sisters of Sigmar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
The Undead. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Skaven . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Campaigns
Campaigns. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Experience. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Trading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Hired Swords. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Dramatis Personae . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Optional rules
Optional Rules. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Mounted Warriors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Blackpowder Weapons. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Fighting Individual Battles . . . . . . . . . . . . 120

me with me, descend into the darkness.
elcome to Mordheim, City of the Damned!
Mordheim is a game of combat that takes place
during the short but intense period when
scores of warbands fought hundreds of bitter
skirmishes throughout the city.
This book contains all the information you will need
in order to play Mordheim, as well as background
information, advice on starting a warband, running a
campaign, collecting and painting your own warband,
etc.
tabletop conflict
In Mordheim, the opposing factions – warbands – are
represented by models, assembled and painted by
you, each representing a single warrior. 
Your tabletop becomes part of the City of the
Damned: the scene of the action, with ruined
buildings, overhangs and walkways where the battles
take place.
The aim of the game is to outfight your opponent,
which requires a mixture of skill and luck. You’ll soon
learn how to arm and equip your warband effectively,
and how to exploit the ruins and other terrain to your
best advantage. 
You’ll probably want to expand your basic warband as
you and they gain experience. This is easy as there are
lots of models available for the warbands and new
miniatures will be coming out all the time. With these
you can expand your warband, equip your warriors
with different weapons and armour, and hire
mercenaries to join them.
building a warband
At first you will probably want to play individual
games (see the Warbands section for more details)
rather than a campaign. This will allow you to learn
the rules, and also give you the opportunity to decide
which type of warband is most suited to your
particular style of play.
If you are playing in a campaign, you will have the
chance to expand and improve your warband after
each game. By winning battles your warband will gain
riches and wyrdstone, discover magical artefacts and
may also have the opportunity to recruit mercenaries.
In a campaign, every time your warband fights, its
warriors gain in skill and experience. Raw recruits
quickly progress to become fully fledged warriors,
and your Heroes will learn new skills which will make
them even better in combat.
Each warband has its own objective and motivation
for fighting in Mordheim: be it riches or political
influence. Through countless battles and street
skirmishes you can try to achieve your ambition and
emerge victorious from the city!
new players
If you’re new to Games Workshop games you’ll be
reassured to know that finding other players is not
normally a problem – you’ll be surprised how many
there are! 
There may be a Games Workshop store near to you
where you can buy models, paint and games
supplements. However Games Workshop stores are
not just shops, they are hobby centres, where the staff
will happily help you to learn the rules, show you
how to paint, and suggest ways to develop your
warband.
warhammer players
If you already play Warhammer, the basic rules of
Mordheim will be familiar to you. Remember though,
Warhammer is designed for fighting battles between
entire armies, whilst Mordheim represents individual
action between a dozen or so warriors. 
As a result, some of the rules developed for mass
combat in Warhammer do not apply to Mordheim,
such as unit Break tests and rank bonuses. On the
other hand, there are new rules for wounded
warriors, climbing, parrying and other aspects of
individual combat.
Introduction

terrain
The bitter struggles of a Mordheim battle take place in
labyrinthine streets, ruined buildings and on derelict
walkways. Pre-cut card and plastic scenery is available
from Games Workshop, but many gamers enjoy
making their own. As a rule, a table packed with
scenery will lead to closer and more exciting games.
Throughout the book you will find photographs,
drawings and descriptions of Mordheim. These
should give you plenty of ideas for producing your
own scenery. Games Workshop’s book How to Make
Wargames Terrain is also a good source of ideas and
practical hints on all asp
counters
Counters can help you keep track of things on the
tabletop. You can always keep notes about who is
hidden, carrying treasure, etc, but counters are a
convenient memory jogger and speed the game up. 
Above are some examples of counters you could
photocopy and stick onto thin card if you wish.
dice
All dice rolls use a standard six-sided dice (usually
shortened to D6). Sometimes you will be asked to
modify the result of the dice roll. This is noted as D6
plus or minus a number, such as D6+1 or D6-2. Roll
the dice and add or subtract the number indicated to
get the final result. You may have to roll a number of
dice in one go. For example, 2D6 means roll two dice
and add the scores together. You may also come
across the term D3. As there is no such thing as a
three-sided dice, use the following method for
determining a score between 1 and 3. Roll a D6 and
halve the score, rounding up: 1 or 2 equals 1, 
3 or 4 equals 2 and 5 or 6 equals 3. If you are given
the opportunity to re-roll a dice roll, you must accept
the second score, even if it’s worse than the original.
tape measure
For measuring ranges you will need a tape measure
marked in inches, or a couple of plastic range rulers.
other equipment
You will also need pens and paper to record details of
your warriors’ weapons and other details. You can use
roster sheets for this, and blank ones are included at
the back of this book. We recommend you photocopy
them rather than use the originals.
Introduction
what you will need
As well as this book, you will need the following items
to play Mordheim.
citadel models
You will need enough miniatures of the appropriate
race/type to represent the warriors in your warband.
It is a good idea to work out your warband on paper
first and then purchase the miniatures that you
require. Almost all possible weapon variations can be
added using the Mordheim equipment sprues. 
As you will see in the Warbands section, each warband
fights in a particular way – some are expert bowmen
while others are better in hand-to-hand combat.
When choosing which warband you want to lead you
could choose one that reflects your preferred playing
style, or you could read the background section and
choose one that really captures your imagination. A
good way of picking a warband is simply to pick the
one with the models you like the best.
playing surface
You will also need something to play your battles on.
Any firm, level surface is best, such as a tabletop or an
area of floor – most kitchen tables will do. It’s a good
idea to use an old sheet or blanket to protect the table
from scratches. Some players make a special gaming
board from chipboard or other similar material
(divided into two or more pieces for ease of storage)
which they can use on top of a table to extend the
playing area. Whatever you use, you will find that a
square area approximately 4 x 4' is about right for
most battles.
“A
re you new
here, boy?
Thought so. I am
Luthor
Wolfenbaum.
You must have
heard of me.
They call me the
Crimson Blade of
Reikland. No? By
Sigmar, where are
you from, lad? 
Well, I’ve got a
proposition for
you. For a few gold
crowns, I can tell you which warriors to hire, how to
equip your men, where to find the best weapons and
armour… The only thing I ask in return for my aid is
a pouch of gold crowns. Don’t look at me like that,
lad. It’s hard enough to stay alive in Mordheim, let
alone find wyrdstone. Ah, that’s better. 
Yes, that’s enough. Good. Let’s go, lad. And my first
piece of advice is free: watch your back…”
Hidden counter
Wyrdstone counter

n Mordheim the warriors each have different
abilities, some being better at certain actions, for
example, fighting, shooting or climbing, than they are
at others. This variety in each warrior is represented
in the form of characteristics and skills. Right now
don’t worry about skills – these come later with
practice and battle experience. For now we just need
to consider a warrior’s characteristics.
Each model is defined by a set of characteristics:
Movement, Weapon Skill, Ballistic Skill, Strength,
Toughness, 
Wounds, 
Initiative, 
Attacks
and
Leadership. Each characteristic is assigned a value of
(usually) between 1 and 10. The higher the value your 
model has for any
characteristic the
better – for
example, a model
with a Strength of 6
is stronger than 
a model that has a
Strength of 2. 
MOVEMENT (M):
A model’s
Movement rate
shows how far
the model can
move in a
turn, under
normal
conditions. 
Characteristics
For example, a typical Human has a move of 4", while
a fleet-footed nimble Skaven has a move of 5".
WEAPON SKILL (WS): Weapon Skill is a measure of
close combat ability (ie, how good the warrior is at
hand-to-hand fighting). A deadly swordsman or a
crazed berserker would have a high value compared
to a lowly acolyte, for example. The higher the WS,
the more likely your warrior is to hit his opponent.
BALLISTIC SKILL (BS): This shows how good a shot
the individual is. When you shoot a bow or fire a
pistol, the chance of hitting a target depends upon
your model’s Ballistic Skill. A normal Human has a BS
of 3, though an experienced marksman might have a
BS of 4, 5 or even higher.
STRENGTH (S): Strength indicates how strong a
warrior is! It is especially important for hand-to-hand
combat, because the stronger you are the harder you
can hit. A Strength value of 3 is about average.
TOUGHNESS (T): This is a measure of how easily an
individual can withstand a hit from a weapon or a
blow from a club or fist. The tougher you are, the
harder you are to wound or kill. An average
Toughness value is 3, though a gnarled old warrior
might have a Toughness of 4!
WOUNDS (W): A model’s Wounds value shows how
many times the model can be wounded before it
collapses, is killed or incapacitated. Most individuals
have only 1 Wound but veteran warriors or large
creatures such as Ogres might have more.
INITIATIVE (I): The Initiative value indicates how fast
and nimble the warrior is. It determines the attacking
order in hand-to-hand combat, and is particularly
important when the model is climbing and moving
amidst the ruins of Mordheim.
ATTACKS (A): The Attacks value indicates how many
blows the model can make in hand-to-hand combat.
Most warriors have an Attacks value of 1, but powerful
fighters may have more. The more Attacks you have,
the greater the chance you’ve got of beating your
opponents into an unrecognisable pulp!
LEADERSHIP (Ld):
Leadership represents raw
courage, self control and charisma. The higher the
model’s Leadership value, the more likely he is to
remain steadfast in combat while others run off or are
slain. For example, a cowardly Skaven may have a
Leadership of 5, while a cool, calm Elf could have a
Leadership of 8 or higher.

zero level characteristics
Some creatures in Mordheim have been given a ‘0’ for
certain characteristics which means that they have no
ability in that field whatsoever. This usually applies to
creatures unable to use missile weapons (who would
have a BS of 0) but it might equally apply to other
characteristics as well.
If a model has a WS of 0 then it cannot defend itself
in hand-to-hand combat, and any blows struck against
it will automatically hit.
characteristic profiles
A model’s characteristic values are written in the form
of a chart called a characteristics profile (or just
profile). 
Warrior
Dieter Stahl
The example above is a typical profile for a Human
warrior. 
As you fight in more games against other players, your
warriors will get better and their characteristics may
increase. All these details are recorded using the
Warband roster sheets provided at the back of this
book. This is explained properly later on. For now it
is enough to know what each characteristic is for and
how their values vary. 
characteristic tests
Often in the game a model will be required to take a
test on one of his own characteristics. In order to pass
this test, the model has to roll a D6 and obtain a result
equal to or lower than the value of the characteristic
involved. Note that if you roll a 6, you automatically
fail the test regardless of the model’s characteristic
value.
For example: Dieter Stahl is jumping down from a
wall that is 3" high and has to take an Initiative test.
He has an Initiative value of 3 on his characteristic
profile and therefore will be successful if he rolls a 1,
2 or 3 on a D6. If he rolls a 4, 5 or 6 he will fail the
test and fall down, suffering all the painful
consequences! 
leadership tests
Tests against the Leadership characteristic are done in
a slightly different way. In the case of a Leadership
test, you should roll two dice and add the two scores
together. If the result is equal to or less than the
model’s Leadership characteristic, the test has been
passed.
For example: Dieter’s Leadership is 7, so to pass a
Leadership test he must roll 7 or less on 2D6.
Characteristics
new era is beginning. It
will be the era of darkness.
We have turned our backs to the
light and stepped from its path.
Men will grow ever more distant
from the gods, and seek the petty
trappings of worldly power,
sacrificing all at the altar of
greed. Our childhood is at an
end. Ahead of us looms nothing
but the long, long night: a time
without warmth or comfort. 

n Mordheim you are in a charge of a warband and
your opponent is in charge of another. 
The warriors and scenery in the game are set up on
the tabletop in a way that is appropriate for the
encounter you are fighting. Do not worry about this
for now as these things will be explained in full in the
Scenarios section.
To play, one side takes a turn, then the other side,
then the original side and so on, much like in a game
of draughts or chess. When it is your turn, you may
move all your models, shoot with any warriors able
to do so, and fight in hand-to-hand combat. Once
your turn is complete, it is your opponent’s
turn to move, shoot and fight.
phases
To keep track of who
is doing what and
when, each turn
is split into
four phases.
This is called
the Turn
sequence.
Turn sequence
Recovery
During the recovery phase you may attempt
to rally individuals who have lost their nerve
and recover models that are knocked down
or stunned. 
During the movement phase you may move
the warriors of your warband according to
the rules given in the Movement section.
In the shooting phase you may shoot with
any appropriate weapons as described in the
rules for shooting.
Hand-to-hand combat
During the hand-to-hand combat phase all
models in hand-to-hand combat may fight.
Note that both sides fight in the hand-to-
hand combat phase, regardless of whose turn
it is.
The turn
recovery phase
During the recovery phase you may attempt to rally
any of your models who have lost their nerve (see the
Recovery Phase rules). To take a Rally test, roll 2D6. If
the score is equal to or less than the model’s
Leadership value the model stops fleeing and has
rallied; turn it to face in any direction you wish. The
model cannot move or shoot for the rest of the turn,
but models able to do so can cast spells. If the test is
failed, the model will continue to flee towards the
closest table edge. 
Note that a model cannot rally if the closest model to
him is an enemy model (fleeing, stunned, knocked
down and hidden models are not taken into
consideration for this).
During the recovery phase, warriors in your
warband who have been stunned become
knocked down instead and warriors who
have been knocked down may stand up
(see the Injuries section). 

3. Remaining Moves
Once you have moved
your chargers and made
any compulsory moves,
you may move the rest of
your warriors as you see fit.
moving
During their movement phase, models can move up
to movement rate their in any direction. They may
move (including running and charging) up and down
ladders and stairs, and over low obstacles such as
barrels, boxes, etc.
In normal circumstances models don’t have to move
their full distance, or at all if you do not want them to.
All exceptions are explained later and invariably
involve either charging or compulsory moves.
During the movement phase models are moved in the following order:
1. Charge!
If you want a model in your warband to charge at an
enemy model and attack it in hand-to-hand combat
then you must do this at the start of the movement
phase before moving any of your other models. 
When you charge a model, declare to your opponent
that you are doing so and indicate which of his
models it is attacking.
2. Compulsory Moves
Sometimes a model is forced to move in a certain way
and this is called a compulsory move. For example, a
fighter whose nerve breaks must run away from his
enemies and take cover. 
Make all of your models’ compulsory moves before
finishing any remaining movement.

running
The normal Movement value of models represents a
warrior moving at a fairly rapid rate, but allows time
for him to aim and shoot a weapon and generally
observe what is going on around him. If you wish, a
model may move much quicker than this – he can
run! A running warrior can move at double speed (for
example, 8" rather than 4"). Note that running is not
the same as charging as it does not allow your model
to engage the enemy in hand-to-hand combat. 
A model can only run if there are no enemy models
within 8" of it at the start of the turn (fleeing, stunned,
knocked down and hidden models do not count).
Check this distance after any charges have been
declared. If there are any enemies within 8" at the
start of the turn, the model will prepare to fight
instead and so is unable to run. The running model
can move closer than 8" to an enemy as it moves.
Any model that runs loses its chance to shoot during
that turn. He is concentrating on running and is not
prepared to fight, having sheathed or shouldered his
weapons. You should declare that models are running
as they move, as this will remind both
players that the model is unable to
shoot that turn. Running models
can cast spells as normal.
charge!
If you want a model to
engage the enemy in
hand-to-hand combat
then you must
make a special
move called a
charge. Without
measuring the
distance,
declare that
your model
is charging
and 
If an unengaged (ie, not in hand-to-hand combat)
enemy model lies within 2" of the charge route, that
model may choose to intercept the charger if he
wishes. This ‘interception area’ is shown in the
diagram above. Only one enemy model may attempt
to intercept each charger. If the intercepting warrior
would normally require a Fear test to engage the
charger then he must pass one in order to be allowed
to intercept. Failure means he will not move. If the
intercepting warrior causes fear then move the
models into contact and then take a Fear test for the
original charger (assuming he would normally do so)
as if he was the one being charged. Regardless of the
results of this test it is still the original charger who
counts as charging in the subsequent round of
combat, not the intercepting warrior. 
2"
2"
Interception area
1"
3"
C cannot intercept A
while he is charging B
because he is too far
away
C can intercept A while
he is charging B because
he is within intercept
distance 
indicate which enemy model he is going to attack.
You can charge any opposing model if you can draw
an unobstructed line from your model to the target. If
your warrior wants to charge an enemy model within
4" that he can’t see (eg, because it is behind a corner)
but has not been declared as hidden, he must pass an
Initiative test to detect it. If he fails the roll, your
model may not charge this turn, but may move his
normal distance, shoot and cast spells.
A charge is like a running move, performed at double
the Movement rate, but ends with the attacker moving
by the most direct route into base-to-base contact
with the enemy model. Once their bases are touching
they are engaged in hand-to-hand combat. Models are
also considered to be in hand-to-hand combat even
when separated by a low wall or obstacle, where it is
impossible for the bases to touch physically because
the obstacle is in the way.

Sometimes a charging warrior may not reach the
enemy because you have miscalculated the distance.
If this happens move your warrior his normal move
distance towards the enemy. This is called a failed
charge. The model cannot shoot in the same turn in
which he failed a charge, but he can cast spells as
normal.
Models cannot be moved into hand-to-hand combat
except by charging – any move that brings a warrior
into hand-to-hand combat is a charge by definition. A
model that charges will ‘strike first’ in the first round
of the ensuing combat.
charging more 
than one opponent
If you can move your warrior into base contact with
more than one enemy model with its charge move, it
can charge them both. This might be inadvisable as
it’ll then be fighting two enemies at once!
hiding
The Hiding rule represents warriors concealing
themselves in a way that our unmoving and
dramatically posed models cannot. A hiding warrior
keeps as still as possible, just peeking out of cover.
A model can hide if he ends his move behind a low
wall, a column or in a similar position where he could
reasonably conceal himself. The player must declare
that the warrior is hiding and place a Hidden counter
beside the model for it to count as being hidden.
A model that runs, flees, is stunned or charges cannot
hide that turn. His sudden burst of speed does not
give him time to hide. 
A model may stay hidden over several turns, so long
as he stays behind a wall or similar feature. He may
even move around so long as he stays hidden while
doing so. If an enemy moves so that he can see the
hidden warrior, the model is no longer hidden and
the counter is removed. When hidden, a warrior
cannot be seen, shot at or charged.
While hiding, a model cannot shoot or cast spells
without giving away its position. If a hidden model
shoots, or moves so that he can be seen, he is no
longer hidden and can be shot at as normal.
A model may not hide if he is too close to an enemy
model – he will be seen or heard no matter how well
concealed. Enemy warriors will always see, hear or
otherwise detect hidden foes within their Initiative
value in inches. So a warrior whose Initiative value is
3 will automatically spot all hidden enemies within 3".
terrain
The ruined city of Mordheim is a dark and dangerous
place, where tumbled down towers and blasted
houses form a vast maze of streets and alleyways.
OPEN GROUND
The tabletop surface, floors of buildings, connecting
overhangs, ladders and ropes are all considered to be
open ground and will not affect movement even if the
model is charging. It can also go through doors and
hatches without slowing down.
DIFFICULT GROUND
Difficult ground includes steep or treacherous slopes,
bushes and the angled roofs of buildings. Models
move at half speed over difficult terrain.
VERY DIFFICULT GROUND
This is really dangerous terrain, such as narrow
crawlholes through the rubble. Models may move at a
quarter rate, so if the model moves 4" over open
ground it can only move 1" over very difficult ground.
WALLS AND BARRIERS
Walls, hedges and other low obstacles form barriers
that you can either go around or leap over. A model
can leap over a barrier that is less than 1" high. This
does not affect its movement in any way.
climbing
Often the ruined buildings of Mordheim do not have
stairs or ladders, so your warriors will have to climb
to reach the upper floors of buildings.
Any model (except animals!) can climb up or down
fences, walls, etc. He must be touching what he wants
to climb at the start of his movement phase. He may
climb up to his total Movement in a single movement
phase (but cannot run while he is climbing). Any
remaining movement can be used as normal. If the
height is more than the model’s normal move, he
cannot climb the wall.
To climb, a model must take an Initiative test. If he
fails it whilst climbing up, he cannot move that turn.
If he fails it while climbing down, he falls from where
he started his descent (see the Falling section). 

Your warrior may jump down from high places (up to
a maximum height of 6") such as walkways and
balconies at any time during his movement phase.
Take an Initiative test for every full 2" he jumps down.
If he fails any of the tests, the model falls from the
point where he jumped, takes damage (see Falling)
and may not move any more during the movement
phase. If successful, the model can continue his
movement as normal (jumping down does not use up
any of the model’s Movement allowance). 
diving charge
You may charge any enemy troops that are below a
balcony or overhang, etc, that your model is on. If an
enemy model is within 2" of the place where your
warrior lands, he may make a diving charge against it.
Take an Initiative test for each full 2" of height your
model jumped down from, up to a maximum of 6",
like a normal jump. If he fails any of them, your model
has fallen and suffers damage, may not move any
more during the movement phase and cannot charge
the enemy. If he succeeds, the model gains a +1
Strength bonus and +1 to hit bonus but only during
the following hand-to-hand combat phase.
jumping over gaps
Models may jump over gaps (up to a maximum of 3")
and streets, (eg, from the roof of a building to
another). Deduct the distance jumped from the
model’s movement but remember that you cannot
measure the distance before jumping. If your model
does not have enough movement to jump the
distance, he automatically falls. If your model is able
to cover the distance, he must pass an Initiative test or
fall. A model may jump over a gap and still fire a
missile weapon if it is not running. It may also jump
as part of its charge or running move.
warriors knocked down or stunned
If a warrior is knocked down or stunned (see the
Shooting section for details) within 1" of the edge of
a roof or building, there is a chance that it will slip
and fall off. Take an Initiative test. If the test is failed,
the model falls over the edge to the ground and takes
damage as detailed below.
falling
A model that falls takes D3 hits at a Strength equal to
the height in inches that it fell (eg, if the model fell 4",
it would take D3 hits at Strength 4). No armour saves
apply. Falling will not cause critical hits (see the Hand-
to-Hand Combat section for the Critical Hits rules). A
model that falls may not move any further or hide
during that turn, even if it is not hurt.
The Skaven runs/charges from the top of a building, jumping
down during the move. It moves 3" to reach the edge, then
jumps down and has to see whether it can safely make it to the
ground. As it has to jump down 5", it must pass two Initiative
tests to avoid taking D3 S5 hits. If it fails it will stop its move at
the bottom of the wall (if it is not taken out of action). If it
passes both tests, it can continue its run/charge and move the
remaining 7".
3"
5"
7"
jumping down

arriors that fight in the ruins of Mordheim are
usually armed to the teeth! Individual warriors
often have several different weapons such as swords,
knives, bows and even blackpowder weapons.
During your warband’s shooting phase each of your
warriors may shoot once with one of his weapons.
This means that he can fire a bow, shoot with a
crossbow, or hurl a throwing knife, for example.
Work through the models one at a time. Pick which
fighter is going to shoot, nominate his target, work
out whether he hits the enemy and, if he does, any
wounds or injuries that are caused. Then continue
with the next shooter. You can take shots in any order
you wish. Be sure to remember or note down which
models have already shot.
who can shoot
Each model can shoot once in the shooting phase, so
long as he can see a target and assuming he has a
suitable weapon. He may not fire in the following
circumstances: if he is engaged in hand-to-hand
combat, has run or failed a charge in the movement
phase, has rallied this turn or is stunned or knocked
down.
To shoot at a target, a model must be able to see it,
and the only way to check this is to stoop over the
tabletop for a model’s eye view. Models can see all
around themselves (ie, 360°), and they may be turned
freely to face in any direction before firing. Note that
turning on the spot does not count as moving. 
closest target
You must shoot at the closest enemy, as he represents
the most immediate threat and therefore the most
obvious target. However, you may shoot at a more
distant target if it is easier to hit or if closer models are
stunned or knocked down (see diagram on next
page). For example, a closer target may be hard to hit
because it is in cover, whilst a more distant target
might be in the open and therefore an easier shot.
You may always choose to shoot at a Large Target if
you can see it, whether it is in cover or not and even
if it is not the closest target. 
You can shoot at models that are fleeing, knocked
down or stunned, but you can choose to ignore them,
because they do not represent an immediate threat. It
is better to shoot the closest standing enemy model
instead.
Note that you may not shoot at models that are
engaged in hand-to-hand combat, as the risk of hitting
your comrades is too great.
cover
The many walls, ruined buildings and other masonry
in Mordheim offer plenty of cover. If any portion of
the target is hidden by a piece of scenery or another
model, the shooting model will suffer a penalty as
explained below. 
Targets in cover
Target A in the open – no To Hit modifier for cover
Target B out of sight – cannot be shot at
The pictures on the left
and below show
examples of warriors
in cover. It does not
matter how much of
the target is in cover,
the model that is
shooting always
suffers a -1 To Hit
modifier.

Sometimes it will be obvious whether a target can be
seen; at other times it will be more difficult, as
buildings and other scenery are in the way. If the
shooter can see only part of the target’s body, the
target is in cover and the shooter suffers a -1 penalty
on his To Hit roll. 
If a shot misses its target by 1, and that target claimed
the -1 modifier for cover, then the shot strikes the
cover instead. Normally this doesn’t matter, but in the
case where a model is concealed behind another
warrior, or when the cover is a powder keg, it might
be extremely important!
shooting from 
an elevated position
A model situated in an elevated position (ie, anything
that is more than 2" above the table surface, such as
an upper floor of a building), may freely pick any
target he can see and shoot at it. The exception to this
rule is that if there are enemies in the same building
and in line of sight of the shooter, he must shoot at
these, as they present a more immediate threat.
range
Once you have decided to shoot and have chosen a
target you must measure to see whether the shot is
within range. Each type of missile weapon has a
maximum range, as described in the Weapons &
Armour section of the book.
Assuming that your target is within range your warrior
can proceed with the shot. If the target is out of range
then he has automatically missed this turn.
hitting the target
To determine whether a shot hits its target, roll a D6.
The dice score needed will depend upon how good a
shot the firer is (as indicated by his Ballistic Skill). The
chart below shows the minimum D6 roll needed to
score a hit.
BS of shooter
9 10
D6 roll needed
-1 -2 -3
D
Here, the closest target (A) is behind cover and so is harder to
hit than the more distant targets B, C and D. In this situation
the firer may shoot at target B even though he is further away
than A.
wo huge stone gargoyles squatted in front of the
crumbling arch of the gateway, leering at Marius
and his henchmen as they approached. Lapzig made the
sign of the sacred hammer across his chest as they passed
between them. The wall itself was already being
reclaimed by the land, tendrils of ivy grew everywhere
and patches of moss were spreading over the ancient
blocks. As they passed into the shadow of the Gargoyle
Gate, Marius and Hensel saw the City of the Damned
properly for the first time.
Just inside the gate was a wide cobbled square, the stores
around its edge were old but still standing. Their
windows were broken, the doors had been stolen for
firewood, even the timbers of some had been hacked at
for precious fuel. The empty window frames and
doorways stared at them like stone skulls.
“It’s pretty tame here. Wait until we get further in, then
you’ll really understand what has happened to this
place,” Lapzig growled. With a flick of a finger he sent
one of his men to scout ahead. Just then a wheezing
cough reverberated around the courtyard and all turned
to see a hunched figure limping across the square
towards them, swathed in rags.
“Tell ye fortune, sires?” the stranger asked. His eyes were
covered in bloodstained bandages and a palsied leg
protruded at an odd angle from beneath the old man’s
tattered, stained white robes.
“Get thy devilry from me!” bellowed Marius with wide,
staring eyes. He wrenched his sabre from its scabbard
and brandished it in the beggar’s face. “Worshipper of
darkness, I shalt run thee through!”
“Wait!” the beggar cried, holding up a bony hand. “’Tis
not from Chaos comes my visions, but from holy Sigmar
himself.” The man fumbled in his robes and pulled out a
tarnished icon of a hammer. “I was a priest here once.
When the sky fell I clawed out my eyes so that I would
not see the evil around me, only Sigmar’s great wisdom.
He tells me that you should turn back now to save your
soul. One does not leap into damnation, one walks there
a step at a time.”
“Begone with your riddles, wretch,” Lapzig interrupted,
shoving the old man away. “We must not tarry within the
walls too long, already there will be others aware of our
presence.”

hit modifiers
It is easier to hit a target that is in the open compared
to a target behind cover. Usually it is also easier to hit
a target if it is close compared to one further away. 
These situations are represented by the following
modifiers:
HIT MODIFIERS
Cover
If any part of the model is
obscured by scenery or other
models then it counts as being
in cover.
Long range
If you are shooting at a target
that is more than half of your
weapon’s maximum range
away.
Moving &
If your model has moved at all
shooting
(other than standing up, or
turning to face your target)
during this turn.
+1
Large target
If either the target model has
the Large Target special rule
(such as an Ogre), or whose
main ‘body’ is over 2" tall or
wide (such as most buildings).
roll to wound
Once you have hit a target test to see if a wound is
inflicted. A shot may fail to cause a wound because it
hits part of the target’s equipment, just scratches the
skin or causes some very minor injury which the
warrior bravely (or stupidly) ignores. If you fail to
cause a wound, the target is unharmed.
To determine whether your shot has caused a wound,
compare the Strength of the weapon with the
Toughness of the target. You will find a complete
description of the various weapons together with
their Strength values and special rules in the Weapons
& Armour section.
The chart above shows the D6 score required to turn
a hit into a wound Note that a dash (–) means that
there is no chance of wounding the target.
Deploying your archers in the upper floors of
buildings is a good idea. They will be in cover
and can freely pick their targets.
Wound chart
target’s toughness
weapon’s strength

armour
Steel breastplates, chainmail, leather tunics, shields…
all these and more are readily available in the forges
of the villages surrounding Mordheim. That is if you
are prepared to pay the price, since armour is very
expensive.
If a warrior wearing armour suffers a wound roll a D6.
If the dice roll is sufficiently high the wounding hit
has bounced off the armour and has not hurt the
wearer at all. The dice score required varies according
to the type of armour. 
The table below summarises the most common
armour types and the D6 rolls required to make a
save. Note that carrying a shield increases the save by
+1. For example, a warrior in light armour with a
shield will save on a roll of a 5 or 6. A warrior who has
a shield but no armour will save on a roll of a 6.
Minimum D6 score
Armour
required to save
Light armour
Heavy armour
Gromril armour
Shield
adds +1 to the armour save
armour save modifiers
Some weapons are better at penetrating armour than
others. A shot from a short bow can be deflected
relatively easily, but a shot from a crossbow penetrates
armour much more effectively.
The higher a weapon’s Strength, the more easily it can
pierce armour. The chart below shows the reduction
to the enemy’s armour saving throw for different
Strength weapons.
Strength
Save modifier
1-3
None
-2
-3
-4
-5
9+
-6
Some weapons are better at penetrating
armour than their Strength value suggests
(Elven bows, for example). This is covered in
the entry for each particular weapon (see the
Weapons & Armour section).
Example: Dieter wears heavy armour and
carries a shield. His armour save is 4+. He is
hit by a crossbow (Strength 4) and therefore he
will save on a D6 roll of 5+ (ie, 4+–1=5+).
critical hits
If you roll a 6 when rolling to wound (for hand-to-
hand combat and shooting only) you will cause a
critical hit. Roll a D6 and consult the Critical Hit chart
below to determine the damage caused by the critical
hit. You should also roll to see whether the target
makes its armour save or suffers damage as normal.
In addition, if the attacker normally needs 6s to
wound his target, he cannot cause a critical hit. His
opponent is simply too tough to suffer a serious
injury at the hands of such a puny creature!
Each warrior may only cause one critical hit in each
hand-to-hand combat phase (see the Close Combat
section), so if he has several attacks, the first 6 you roll
to wound will cause a critical hit.
CRITICAL HIT CHART
1-2 Hits a vital part. The wound is doubled to 2
wounds. Roll any armour saves before
doubling the wound.
3-4 Hits an exposed spot. The wound is doubled
to 2 wounds. The attack ignores all armour
saves.
5-6 Master strike! The wound is doubled to 2
wounds. The attack ignores all armour saves.
You gain +2 to any Injury rolls.
If a critical hit causes more than 1 wound,
and the weapon the attacking model is
using normally causes several
wounds, then use the one
that causes the most
damage.

knocked down
A fighter who has been knocked down falls to the
ground either because of a jarring blow he has 
sustained, because he has slipped, or because
he has thrown himself to the ground to avoid
injury. Turn the model face up to show that
he has been knocked down. Knocked down
models may crawl 2" during the movement
phase, but may not fight in hand-to-hand
combat, shoot or cast spells. If he is in base-
to-base contact with an enemy, a knocked
down model can crawl 2" away only if the
enemy is engaged in hand-to-hand combat
with another opponent, otherwise he has to
stay where he is. In combat he cannot strike
back and the enemy will have a good chance
of putting him out of action (see the Warriors
Knocked Down section of the Close Combat
rules on page 21).
A warrior who has been knocked down may
stand up at the start of his next turn. In that
turn he may move at half rate, shoot and cast 
injuries
Most warriors have a Wounds characteristic of 1, but
some have a value of 2 or more. If the target has more
than 1 wound then deduct 1 from his total each time
he suffers a wound. Make a note on the roster sheet.
So long as the model has at least 1 wound remaining
he may continue to fight.
As soon as a fighter’s Wounds are reduced to zero, roll
to determine the extent of his injuries. The player
who inflicted the wound rolls a D6 for the wound that
reduced the model to zero wounds and for every
wound the model receives after that. If a model
suffers several wounds in one turn, roll once for each
of them and apply the highest result.
spells, he cannot charge or run. If he is engaged in
hand-to-hand combat, he may not move away and will
automatically strike last, irrespective of weapons or
Initiative. After this turn the fighter moves and fights
normally, even though he has zero wounds left. If the
model takes any further wounds, then roll for injury
once more, exactly as if the model had just sustained
its last wound. 
stunned
When a warrior is stunned, he is either badly injured
or temporarily knocked out. Turn the model face
down to show that he has been stunned. A fighter
who is stunned may do nothing at all. A player may
turn the model face up in the next recovery phase,
and the warrior is then treated as knocked down.
out of action
A warrior who is out of action is also out of the game.
Remove the model from the tabletop. It’s impossible
to tell at this point whether the warrior is alive or
dead, but for game purposes it makes no difference at
this stage. After the battle you can test to see
whether he survives and if he sustains
any serious lasting injuries as a
result of his wounds (see
page 79 for details).
1-2 Knocked down
The force of the blow knocks the warrior down.
Place the model face up to show that he has
been knocked down.
3-4 Stunned
The target falls to the ground where he lies
wounded and barely conscious. Turn the model
face down to show that he has been stunned.
5-6 Out of action
The target has been badly hurt and falls to the
ground unconscious. He takes no further part in
the game and is immediately removed from the
battle.

who can fight
Models whose bases are touching are engaged in
hand-to-hand combat. This can only happen once a
warrior has charged his enemy, as models are
otherwise not allowed to move into contact. 
All close quarter fighting is worked out in the hand-to-
hand combat phase. Regardless of whose turn it is, all
models in hand-to-hand combat will fight. A warrior
can fight against enemies to his side, front, or rear. In
reality the fighters are constantly moving, dodging,
and weaving as they struggle to kill their adversaries.
Models fighting in hand-to-hand combat do not shoot
in the shooting phase. They are far too busy fighting
for their lives. Any very close range shots they are able
to make using pistols are treated like close combat
weapon attacks (see the Weapons & Armour section).
who strikes first
Normally, models fight in order of descending
Initiative with the highest striking first. If their
Initiatives are equal, roll a dice to see who strikes first.
If a model stood up in the Recovery phase of that
turn, then he will strike last irrespective of any other
circumstances.
Sometimes a model will be allowed to ‘strike first’ for
some reason. Most commonly this is because they
charged in that turn, but some equipment, skills and
spells produce the same effect. If only one model
‘strikes first’ then it does so and the remainder of the
combatants strike in Initiative order as described
above.
If there are several models who are each entitled to
‘strike first’, then they determine the order of combat
between themselves by Initiative, as described above.
Once all those that were eligible to ‘strike first’ have
fought, any other combatants fight in Initiative order.
which models fight
A model can fight if its base is touching the base of an
enemy model. Even models attacked from the side or
rear can fight.
If a warrior is touching more than one enemy, he can
choose which to attack. If he has more than 1 Attack,
he can divide them in any way the player wishes, so
long as he makes this clear before rolling to hit.

roll
to wound
Once your model
has hit a target you
must test to see
whether a wound is
inflicted. Sometimes a
strike may fail to wound
simply because it causes
an insignificant injury or
glances off the enemy’s
equipment.
To determine whether the blow
has caused a wound compare the
Strength of the weapon with the
Toughness of the target. You will find a
complete description of the various
weapons together with their Strength
values and special rules in the Weapons
& Armour section.
Follow the same procedure for wounding and causing
critical hits as in the Shooting section. Note that a
dash (–) means that there is no chance of wounding
the target.
hitting the enemy
To determine whether hits are scored, roll
a D6 for each model fighting. If a model has
more than 1 Attack roll a D6 for each attack.
The dice roll needed to score a hit on your enemy
depends upon the Weapon Skills of the attacker and
the foe. Compare the Weapon Skill of the attacker
with that of his opponent and consult the To Hit chart
below to find the minimum D6 score needed to hit.
fighting with two weapons
Some maniac warriors carry two weapons, one in
each hand, so they can rain a flurry of blows on their
enemies. A warrior armed with two one-handed
weapons may make 1 extra Attack with the additional
weapon. Note that this is added to the total of the
warrior’s attacks after other modifiers, such as frenzy,
have been applied. If he is armed with two different
weapons (sword and dagger, for example), he will
make a single attack with whichever weapon he
chooses, and all others with the remaining weapon.
Roll to hit and wound for each weapon separately.
weapon modifiers
Unlike hits from shooting, the Strength of the attacker
is used to determine wounds, rather than that of the
weapon itself. However, some weapons confer a
bonus on the attacker’s Strength (see the Weapons &
Armour section for full details).
To hit chart
Opponent’s weapon skill
Attacker’s weapon skill

armour
Combatants that are wounded have the chance to
avoid damage if they are wearing armour or carrying
shields. This is exactly the same as described for
shooting, and the same rules apply.
For each wound suffered the player rolls a D6. If he
rolls greater than or equal to the armour save of his
fighter then that wound has been absorbed or
deflected by the armour.
armour save modifiers
Some models are so powerful that armour provides
less protection against them. 
The higher a creature’s Strength the more easily it can
pierce armour. The following chart shows the
reduction in the enemy’s armour saving throw caused
by the attacker’s Strength.
Strength
Save modifier
1-3
None
-2
-3
-4
-5
9+
-6
Some weapons also confer a bonus to the user’s
Strength, making it more likely that any hits will
pierce the opponent’s armour. These bonuses are
given in the Weapons & Armour section.
parry
Bucklers are small shields which offer no increase to
the armour saving throw, but allow you to parry
attacks. Swords are also used to parry enemy attacks.
When an opponent scores a hit, warriors equipped
with bucklers or swords may try to parry the blow.
Roll a D6. If the score is higher than the number your
opponent rolled to hit, the buckler or sword has
parried the strike. Note that it is therefore impossible
to parry a blow which scored a 6 on the roll to hit.
“Swordsmen
are always at
their best
when they
are
equipped
with swords and bucklers. The enemy will find it really
difficult to penetrate their defences and it makes them
good when attacking, too.”
Wound chart
target’s Toughness
attacker’s Strength

A buckler or sword may only parry one blow per
hand-to-hand combat phase. A parried blow is
ignored and has no effect. If your opponent scored
several hits, you will have to try to beat the highest
score (if the highest score is a 6, you automatically
lose the chance of parrying that opponent’s attacks).
If a model is fighting against several opponents, it may
only parry the strike from the enemy who makes the
first hit(s) (ie, the attacking model with the highest
Initiative). 
In 
the 
case 
of 
equal 
Initiative
characteristics roll a dice to decide who strikes first. 
If your model is armed with a buckler and a sword,
you may re-roll any failed parries once. A model
armed with two swords can still only roll once.
A model may not parry attacks made with twice (or
more) his own basic Strength – they are simply too
powerful to be stopped.
warriors knocked down
If an enemy is fighting a warrior who is knocked
down, he may attack him to put him out of his misery.
All attacks against a warrior who is knocked down hit
automatically. If any of the attacks wound the knocked
down model and he fails his armour save, he is
automatically taken out of action as explained
previously. A knocked down model may not parry.
warriors stunned
A stunned warrior is at the mercy of his enemies. A
stunned model is automatically taken out of action if
an enemy can attack him in hand-to-hand combat.
attacking stunned 
and knocked down warriors 
Note that a model with multiple attacks may not
stun/knock down and then automatically take a
warrior out of action during the same hand-to-hand
combat phase. The only way you can achieve this is to
have more than one of your models attacking the
same enemy. So, if the enemy is stunned/knocked
down by the first warrior, he can be hit and put out of
action by the next warrior to attack.
If your model is engaged in close combat with an
enemy who is still standing, he cannot attack any
other models that are stunned or knocked down,
since in reality they will not pose an immediate threat
to him and their companions will try to protect them.
moving from combat
Once models are engaged in hand-to-hand combat
they cannot move away during their movement
phase. They must fight until they are either taken out
of action, until they take out their enemies, or until
one or the other breaks and runs.
The exception to this rule is that if all a model’s close
combat opponents are knocked down or stunned, he
may move away from the combat if you wish, and
even charge other enemies within range.
breaking from combat
A warrior who panics whilst fighting in hand-to-hand
combat will break off and make a run for it as
described in the Leadership & Psychology section.
When a fighter breaks from combat he simply turns
and runs off. His opponents automatically hit
the warrior as he breaks, each
inflicting 1 hit which is
worked out immediately.
Note that warriors
cannot choose to
leave a fight
voluntarily. 

the rout test
A player must make a Rout test at the start of his turn
if a quarter (25%) or more of his warband is out of
action. For example, in a warband that has twelve
warriors a test is needed if three or more are out of
action. Even warbands who are normally immune to
psychology (such as Undead) must make Rout tests.
If the Rout test is failed, the warband automatically
loses the fight. The game ends immediately and
surviving warriors retreat from the area. A failed Rout
test is the most common way in which a fight ends. 
To take a Rout test roll 2D6. If the score is equal to or
less than the warband leader’s Leadership, the player
has passed the test and may continue to fight. 
If the warband’s leader is out of action or stunned,
then the player may not use his Leadership to take the
test. Instead, use the highest Leadership characteristic
amongst any remaining fighters who are not stunned
or out of action.
voluntary rout
A player may choose to voluntarily Rout at the start of
any of his own turns if he wishes, but only if he was
already required to take a Rout test or if a quarter
(25%) or more of his warband are out of action. 
leaders
A warrior within 6" of his leader may use his leader’s
Leadership value when taking Leadership tests. This
represents the leader’s ability to encourage his
warriors and push them beyond normal limits.
A leader cannot confer this bonus if he is knocked
down, stunned or fleeing himself. The sight of your
leader running for cover is obviously far from
encouraging!
all alone
Being outnumbered and alone is a nerve-racking
situation for any warrior. 
If your warrior is fighting alone against two or
more opponents, and there are no friendly
models within 6" (knocked down, stunned or
fleeing friends do not count), he must make a test
at the end of his combat phase. The test is taken
against the model’s Leadership on 2D6. If the
warrior scores equal to or under his Leadership
his nerve holds. If the score is greater than his
Leadership, the warrior breaks from combat and
runs. Each one of his opponents may make one
automatic hit against him as he turns to run. If
the model survives, he runs 2D6" directly away
from his enemies. 
At the start of each of his turns, the warrior must
take another Leadership test. If he passes, he
stops but can do nothing else during his own
turn except cast spells. If he fails or is charged, he
runs 2D6" towards the nearest table edge,
avoiding any enemy models. If he reaches the
table edge before he has managed to recover his
nerves, he is removed from combat.
If a warrior is charged while he is fleeing, the
charger is moved into base contact as normal, but
the fleeing warrior will then run a further 2D6"
towards the table edge, before any blows can be
struck.

fear
Fear is a natural reaction to huge or unnerving
creatures. A model must take a Fear test (ie, test
against his Leadership) in the following situations.
Note that creatures that cause fear can ignore these
tests.
a) If the model is charged by a warrior or a
creature which causes fear.
If a warrior is charged by an enemy that he fears
then he must take a test to overcome that fear.
Test when the charge is declared and is
determined to be within range. If the test is
passed the model may fight as normal. If it is
failed, the model must roll 6s to score hits in
that round of combat.
b) If the model wishes to charge a fear-
causing enemy.
If a warrior wishes to charge an enemy that it
fears then it must take a test to overcome this. If
it fails the model may not charge and must
remain stationary for the turn. Treat this as a
failed charge.
frenzy
Some warriors can work themselves into a berserk
state of fury, a whirlwind of destruction in which all
concern for their own personal safety is ignored in
favour of mindless violence. These warriors are
described as being frenzied.
Frenzied models must always charge if there are any
enemy models within charge range (check after
charges have been declared). The player has no
choice in this matter – the warrior will automatically
declare a charge.
Frenzied warriors fight with double their Attacks
characteristic in hand-to-hand combat. Warriors with
1 Attack therefore have 2 Attacks, warriors with 2
Attacks have 4, etc. If a warrior is carrying a weapon in
each hand, he receives +1 Attack for this as normal.
This extra Attack is not doubled.
Once they are within charge range, frenzied warriors
are immune to all other psychology, such as fear and
don’t have to take these tests as long as they remain
within charge range.
If a frenzied model is knocked down or stunned, he is
no longer frenzied. He continues to fight as normal
for the rest of the battle.
hatred
Hatred is a very powerful emotion, and during this
era of strife and war, bitter rivalry is commonplace. 
Warriors who fight enemies they hate in hand-to-hand
combat may re-roll any misses when they attack in the
first turn of each hand-to-hand combat. This bonus
applies only in the first turn of each combat and
represents the warrior venting his pent-up hatred on
his foe. After the initial round of hand-to-hand combat
he loses some impetus and subsequently fights
as normal for the rest of the combat.
stupidity
Many large and powerful creatures, as well as some of
the more unhinged individuals in Mordheim, are
unfortunately rather stupid. 
Models that are stupid test at the start of their turn to
see if they overcome their stupidity. Make a test for
each model affected by stupidity. If you pass the test
by rolling their Leadership value or less on 2D6 then
all is well – the creatures behave reasonably
intelligently and the player may move and fight with
them as normal.
If the test is failed all is not well. Until the start of his
next turn (when it takes a new Stupidity test) the
model will not cast spells or fight in hand-to-hand
combat (though his opponent will still have to roll to
hit him as normal). 
If a model who fails a Stupidity test is not in hand-to-
hand combat, roll a D6.
1-3 The warrior moves directly forward at half
speed in a shambling manner. He will not
charge an enemy (stop his movement 1" away
from any enemy he would have come into
contact with). He can fall down from the edge
of a sheer drop (see the Falling rules) or hit an
obstacle, in which case he stops. The model
will not shoot this turn. 
4-6 The warrior stands inactive and drools a bit
during this turn. He may do nothing else, as
drooling is so demanding.
Regardless of whether the test is passed or failed, the
result applies until the start of the model’s following
turn (when it takes a new Stupidity test). 
“You can either have lots of men or really good equipment,
weapons and armour. Make your own mind up which. I
would try and strike a balance between the two.”

Perhaps the simplest type of weapon, these brutal,
bludgeoning instruments range from primitive
wooden clubs to elaborately forged Dwarf hammers
made from the finest steel. A blow from a mace can
easily crush a skull or knock a man unconscious.
Range: Close Combat; 
Strength: As user; Special Rule: Concussion
Concussion: Hammers and other bludgeoning weapons
are excellent to use for striking your enemy senseless.
When using a hammer, club or mace, a roll of 
2-4 is treated as stunned when rolling to see the
extent of a model’s injuries.
Hammer, staff, mace or club
Dagger
Daggers and knives are extremely common, and men are allowed to
carry them in enclaves where weapons are otherwise forbidden. Many
a warrior in Mordheim has died with a dagger in his back.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user; Special Rule: +1 Enemy armour save
+1 Enemy armour save: Daggers are not the best weapons to
use for penetrating an enemy model’s armour. An enemy
wounded by a dagger gains a +1 bonus to his armour save,
and a 6+ armour save if he has none normally.
The truly desperate, who don’t even own a knife, have to fight with their bare
hands. Needless to say, their chances of survival are comparable to Halflings going
without food for eight hours! 
Note: The following rule only apply to warriors who have lost their weapons.
Creatures such as Zombies, animals, etc, ignore these rules. Warriors using their
fists can only ever make 1 attack.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user -1; Special Rule: +1 Enemy armour save
+1 Enemy armour save: An enemy wounded by a fist gains a +1 bonus to
his armour save, and a 6+ armour save if he normally has none.
Fist
Life and death in Mordheim is decided by the quantity and quality
of the weapons a warrior carries. This section describes the different
weapons and other equipment such as armour and shields. 

Axe
The axe is the traditional weapon of Empire woodsmen, and is also used as a weapon in
poorer rural areas. Axes have a heavy blade and, if swung by a strong man, can cause a
lot of damage. The blade of an axe can easily cut through armour, though it requires
considerable strength from the wielder.
Of all the warriors in the Old World, Dwarfs are the most adept at making axes.
Their axes are invaluable to the warriors of the Old World and are some of the
most sought after weapons.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user; Special Rule: Cutting edge
Cutting edge: An axe has an extra save modifier of -1, so a model with
Strength 4 using an axe has a -2 save modifier when he hits an opponent in
hand-to-hand combat.
Sword
The sword is often referred to as the ‘king of weapons’. The most
common sword available, the broadsword of the Empire, is a
masterpiece by the standards of any smith: four full feet of gleaming
steel, double-edged and razor-sharp. 
Swords are much more effective weapons than crude clubs and axes,
though learning to use a sword is a long and difficult process. It takes
years to truly master this weapon – most warriors in Mordheim die
long before they get this far!
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user; Special Rule: Parry
Parry: Swords offer an excellent balance of defence and offence. A
model armed with a sword may parry blows. When his opponent rolls
to hit, the model armed with a sword may roll a D6. If the score is
greater than the highest to hit score of his opponent, the model has
parried the blow, and that attack is discarded. A model may not parry
attacks made with double or more its own Strength – they are simply
too powerful to be stopped.
Flail
The flail is a heavy weapon wielded with both hands. It
normally consists of heavy weights, often spiked, attached to a
pole or handle by means of heavy chains. Flails drain the user’s
stamina quickly, but are awesomely destructive in the hands of
a skilled (or unhinged) warrior.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user +2; 
Special Rules: Heavy, Two-handed
Heavy: A flail is extremely tiring to use and thus the +2
Strength bonus applies only in the first turn of each hand-to-
hand combat. 
Two-handed: As a flail requires two hands to use, a
model using a flail may not use a shield, buckler or
additional weapon in close combat. If the model has a
shield he still gets a +1 bonus to his armour save
against shooting.

Morning star
A morning star consists of a wooden or steel shaft with heavy chains that have spiked steel
balls attached. It is very destructive and requires great skill to wield effectively.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user +1; Special Rules: Heavy, Difficult to use
Heavy: The morning star is extremely tiring to use, so its +1 Strength
bonus applies only in the first turn of each hand-to-hand combat.
Difficult to use: A model with a morning star may not use a second
weapon or buckler in his other hand because it requires all his skill to
wield it. He may carry a shield as normal though.
Halberd
The halberd’s heavy blade is mounted upon a sturdy shaft
of oak or steel and has a point like a spear and a cutting
edge like an axe. Since it can be used to chop as
well as thrust, it is an adaptable weapon, but is
difficult to use inside buildings. 
Range: Close Combat; 
Strength: As user +1; Special Rule: Two-handed
Two-handed: A model armed with a halberd
may not use a shield, buckler or additional
weapon in close combat.
If the model has a shield he still gets a +1
bonus to his armour save against shooting.
Spears range from sharpened sticks used by
Goblins to the impressive cavalry spears
typical of the Elves. 
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user; 
Special Rules: Strike first, Unwieldy, 
Cavalry bonus
Strike first: A warrior with a
spear strikes first in the first turn of
hand-to-hand combat.
Unwieldy: A warrior with a spear may
only use a shield or a buckler in his
other hand. He may not use a second
weapon.
Cavalry bonus: If using
the rules for mounted
models, a mounted
warrior armed with a
spear receives a +1
Strength bonus when he
charges. This bonus only
applies for that turn.
Spear

Elven blades are forged from priceless ithilmar,
an extremely light but strong metal, found only
in the fabled Elven kingdoms. A few of these
weapons are occasionally found in the Old
World and these are normally spoils of war,
taken by the Norse raiders who pillage the
coastal settlements of the Elves.
An ithilmar weapon gives its user +1 Initiative in
hand-to-hand combat, and costs three times the
price of a normal weapon of its kind. You may
choose which hand-to-hand weapon is
offered to you as explained in the Trading
section.
Only a Dwarf Runesmith can forge a weapon from
gromril, a rare meteoric iron. A blade fashioned from this
metal will stay keen for a thousand years.
A gromril weapon has an extra -1 save modifier, and costs
four times the price of a normal weapon of its kind. You
may choose which type of hand-to-hand weapon is offered
to you as explained in the Trading section.
A blow from a double-handed axe or sword can cut a foe in half and break armour
apart. It takes a long time to learn how to use these weapons and even
then only extremely strong men are able to wield them effectively.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user +2; 
Special Rules: Two-handed, Strike last
Two-handed: A model armed with a double-handed weapon
may not use a shield, buckler or additional weapon in close
combat. If the model is equipped with a shield he will still get
a +1 bonus to his armour save against shooting.
Strike last: Double-handed weapons are so heavy that the
model using them always strikes last, even when charging. 
Double-handed sword, hammer, axe, etc
Lance
Lances are long, heavy spears used by mounted shock troops to rip through armour and
fling their foes to the ground. They are the chosen weapons of Knights Templar and other
wealthy warriors. To use a lance requires great skill and strength, and only the richest
warriors ride the heavy warhorses needed to wield these mighty weapons effectively.
Range: Close Combat; Strength: As user +2; Special Rules: Cavalry weapon/bonus
Cavalry weapon: A warrior must own a warhorse to use a lance, as it can only be used
whilst he is on horseback.
Cavalry bonus: If using optional rules for mounted models, a warrior armed with a lance
receives a +2 Strength bonus when he charges. This bonus only applies for that turn.
Gromril weapon
Ithilmar weapon

Short bows are small, short-ranged bows that are cheap and require little
strength to use. Some cavalry carry a shortened bow which is easier to shoot
from horseback than a larger bow. Halflings also use short bows, as they
lack the strength and height required to use a long bow.
Maximum Range: 16"; Strength: 3; Special Rules: None
The bow is carried by most races and used extensively in warfare.
It is a compact yet powerful weapon, that is cheap to make and
easy to maintain.
Maximum Range: 24"; Strength: 3; Special Rules: None
Bow
A long bow is made of alternating layers of either yew or elm. A
skilled archer can hit a chosen leaf on a tree from three hundred
paces with this weapon. 
The long bow is favoured by experienced archers due to its great
reach and accuracy. 
Maximum Range: 30"; Strength: 3; Special Rules: None
Long bow
Short bow
Elf bow
Elven bows are the finest missile weapons of their kind. Constructed
from ithilmar or wood from the Elf forests, with strings woven from
the hair of Elf maidens, Elven bows are far superior to any missile
weapons made by other races. In the hands of an Elven archer, the
Elf bow is a truly potent weapon, its long range and penetrating
power making it far superior to any bow made by humans.
Maximum Range: 36"; Strength: 3; Special Rules: -1 Save modifier
Save modifier: An Elf bow has a -1 save modifier on armour
saves against it.
Missile weapons

A crossbow consists of a short, strong bowstave mounted on a wooden
or steel stock. The crossbows of the Empire are made of steel and often
include a winding mechanism to draw back the string. It takes a long
time to prepare a crossbow, but a bolt fired from one has a tremendous
range and can penetrate armour easily.
Crossbows take much longer than other bows to make, so they are
expensive and relatively rare weapons. Still, they are the preferred
weapon of many in Mordheim because of their power and long range.
Maximum Range: 30"; Strength: 4; Special Rule: Move or fire
Move or fire: You may not move and fire a crossbow on the same turn,
other than to pivot on the spot to face your target or to stand up.
Slings are rarely used, mainly because they are no more powerful than
bows and have a shorter range. A sling is little more than a looped
strip of cloth or leather into which a stone is placed. The sling is
whirled about the slinger’s head and the sling stone is then released
towards the target. 
While this weapon is looked down upon by most archers, a
skilled slinger can slay a man from a considerable distance, and
the ammunition is easy to find: rocks are everywhere and free!
Maximum Range: 18"; Strength: 3; Special Rule: Fire twice at half range
Fire twice at half range: A slinger may fire twice in the shooting
phase if he does not move in the movement phase. He cannot shoot
over half range (9") though, if he fires twice. If the model fires twice
theneach shot is at -1 to hit.
Throwing stars are used mainly by the assassins of the
sinister House of Shadows, or by street thugs who specialise
in ambushing the unwary. A perfectly balanced knife
thrown from behind has ended the life of many a noble
and merchant in Mordheim. Throwing knives are not
suitable for close combat, as their balance makes
them unwieldy in close quarters.
Range: 6"; Strength: As user; 
Special Rule: Thrown weapon
Thrown weapon: Models using throwing stars or
knives do not suffer penalties for range or moving
as these weapons are perfectly balanced for
throwing. They cannot be used in close combat.
Crossbow
Sling
Throwing star/knife

Repeater crossbows are extremely complex devices, expensive to acquire
and difficult to make. While this makes them rare, they certainly have
their uses: they can rain a deadly hail of bolts on enemies, and a warrior
using one may move quite fast and still fire his weapon.
Maximum Range: 24"; Strength: 3; Special Rule: Fire twice
Fire twice: A model armed with a repeater crossbow may choose to fire
twice per turn with an extra -1 to hit penalty on both shots.
Crossbow pistols are masterpieces made by expert weaponsmiths.
They are miniature crossbows with all the power and accuracy of
the real thing. As these weapons may be easily concealed, they are
the favoured weapon of assassins.
Maximum Range:10"; Strength: 4; Special Rule: Shoot in hand-to-hand combat
Shoot in hand-to-hand combat: A model armed with a crossbow
pistol may shoot it in the first round of a hand-to-hand combat and
this shot is always resolved first, before any blows are struck. This
shot has an extra -2 to hit penalty. Use model’s Ballistic Skill to see
whether it hits or not. This bonus attack is in addition to any close
combat weapon attacks.
Repeater crossbow
Crossbow pistol

A pistol is a small, simple blackpowder weapon fired by a spring mechanism. Most
pistols are expensive, unreliable, and poorly constructed.
Maximum Range: 6"; Strength: 4; Special Rules: Prepare shot, Save modifier, Hand-to-hand
Prepare shot: A pistol takes a whole turn to reload, so you may only fire every
other turn. If you have a brace of pistols (ie, two) you may fire every turn.
Save modifier: Pistols are even better at penetrating armour than their
Strength value of 4 suggests. A model wounded by a pistol must take its
armour save with a -2 modifier.
Hand-to-hand: Pistols can be used in hand-to-hand combat as
well as for shooting. A model armed with a pistol and
another close combat weapon gains +1 Attack, which is
resolved at Strength 4 with a -2 save modifier. This bonus
attack can be used only once per combat. If you are firing a
brace of pistols, your model can fight with 2 Attacks in the
first turn of close combat. These attacks are resolved with a
model’s Weapon Skill like any normal close combat attack
and likewise may be parried. Successful hits are
resolved at Strength 4 and with 
a -2 save modifier, regardless
of the firer’s Strength. 
lackpowder weapons are only a very recent invention in the
Warhammer world. They are often unreliable and temperamental but
they do hit exceedingly hard and armour offers almost no protection, as
their lead bullets can penetrate even the strongest breastplate or shield.
Most blackpowder weapons are bought from Dwarfs at great expense,
though some of the forges of Nuln and Altdorf have started to experiment with
making handguns.
Blackpowder weapons
Pistol

A duelling pistol is a work of art, and a gunsmith labours long and hard to produce
a single example. They are often carried by Imperial nobles to solve disputes over
love and honour, and many a noble has died at dawn in a duel over some
grievance. 
Duelling pistols are prohibitively expensive weapons and common warriors rarely
have them. Even if they do manage to steal or buy one, the ammunition is
prohibitively expensive.
Some of the wealthiest warriors in Mordheim carry duelling pistols as status
symbols, commanding great respect, admiration and envy.
Maximum Range: 10"; Strength: 4; 
Special Rules: Accuracy, Prepare shot, Save modifier, Hand-to-hand
Accuracy: A duelling pistol is built for accuracy as a skilled duellist is able
to hit a coin from twenty paces. All shots and close combat attacks from
a duelling pistol have a +1 bonus to hit.
Prepare shot: A duelling pistol takes a complete turn to reload, so your
model may only fire every other turn. If he has a brace of duelling
pistols he may fire every turn.
Save modifier: Duelling pistols are even better at penetrating armour
than their Strength 4 suggests. A warrior wounded by a duelling pistol
must make his armour save with a -2 modifier.
Hand-to-hand: Duelling pistols can be used in hand-to-hand
combat as well as for shooting. A model armed with a duelling
pistol and another close combat weapon gains +1 Attack,
which is resolved at Strength 4 with a -2 save modifier. This
bonus attack can be used only once per combat. If you are
firing a brace of duelling pistols, your model can fight with 2
Attacks in the first turn of close combat. These attacks are
resolved with a model’s Weapon Skill like any normal close
combat attack and likewise may be parried. Successful hits
are resolved at Strength 4 and with a -2 save modifier,
regardless of the firer’s Strength. 
Blunderbuss
Duelling pistol
A blunderbuss is a primitive blackpowder weapon, which
fires a hail of lead balls, rusty bolts, bent nails, and other
assorted scrap metal. It is a powerful, if erratic, weapon and
takes such a long time to load that most warriors discard it
after the first shot.
Maximum Range: Special; Strength: 3; 
Special Rules: Shot, Fire once
Shot: When your model fires the blunderbuss, draw a
line 16" long and 1" wide in any direction from the firer
(the line must be absolutely straight). Any and all
models in its path are automatically hit by a
Strength 3 hit.
Fire Once: It takes a very long time to load a
blunderbuss so it may only be fired it once per
battle.

A handgun is a simple firearm. The quality of construction varies ranging from the crude
wooden ‘hakbuts’ of the artillery school of Nuln, to the more sophisticated Dwarf firearms
that have levers and springs which hold the burning match, and triggers which release the
firing mechanism and fire the gun. 
Handguns are not terribly reliable weapons: the gun barrel occasionally tends to explode
violently or the powder fails to ignite. But the weapon has a great range and tremendous
penetrating power, making a mockery of even the thickest armour. 
In Mordheim, handguns are rare and expensive, but a warband which can boast
such a weapon will command respect from all its rivals.
Maximum Range: 24"; Strength: 4; 
Special Rules: Prepare shot, Move or fire, Save modifier
Prepare shot: A handgun takes a complete turn to reload, so you may
only fire it every other turn.
Move or fire: You may not move and fire a handgun in the same turn,
other than to pivot on the spot to face your target or stand up.
Save Modifier. Handguns are even better at penetrating armour than their
Strength 4 suggests. A warrior wounded by a handgun must take its armour
save with a -2 modifier.
Handgun
Hochland long rifle
Hochland is a province famed for its hunters, and the preferred
weapon of its nobility when they go hunting
is a long-ranged rifle. They are
extremely rare and precious weapons,
and only the most experienced
weaponsmiths are capable of
manufacturing them.
Maximum Range: 48"; Strength: 4; 
Special Rules: Move or fire, Prepare shot, 
Pick target, Save modifier
Move or fire: You may not move and fire a Hochland long
rifle in the same turn, other than to pivot on the spot to face
your target or stand up from knocked down.
Prepare shot: A Hochland long rifle takes a complete turn to
reload, so you may only fire it every other turn.
Pick target: A model armed with a Hochland long rifle can target
any enemy model in sight, not just the closest one.
Save modifier: Hochland long rifles are even better at
penetrating armour than their Strength 4 suggests. A warrior
wounded by a long rifle must make his armour save with a -2
modifier.

Light armour encompasses a wide variety of materials from hardened leather tunics to chain shirts forged from
steel. It does not offer complete protection against arrows or swords, but it is better than having nothing at all.
Light armour does not inhibit movement.
ARMOUR SAVING THROW
Save: A warrior who is wearing light armour has a basic D6 saving throw
of 6.
Light armour
hen fighting in close combat, a good suit of armour may mean the difference between life
and death. The finest armour in the known world is made in Dwarf forges, where the secrets
of steel and fire are well understood. Hardened leather jackets are often worn by the hunters of
Osterland, while city soldiers prefer mail coats and steel breastplates. The forges of the Empire
have many skilled smiths capable of forging fine armour, for the humans learned this craft from
Dwarf master smiths in the early days of the Empire. 
In Mordheim, only the most wealthy and powerful are able to afford the luxury of owning a suit
of armour (the less well-off have to make do with leather tunics and occasionally helmets and
wooden shields). The richest leaders of the most successful warbands wear suits of high quality
armour and a good suit of armour is just as much a symbol of wealth and power as it is
protection against weapons.
Typical heavy armour is made from metal links and
is called chain mail. Forging chain mail is a
laborious and time consuming process, as
the blacksmith must put together hundreds,
sometimes thousands, of metal links. This
makes chain mail expensive, but this type
of armour provides excellent protection for
anyone who can afford it. 
There are other types of heavy armour
as well, of which the best known are
the steel breastplates and greaves
worn by the foot knights of the
Templar orders.
Save: A warrior that is
wearing heavy armour
has a basic D6 saving throw of
5+.
Movement: A warrior that is
armed with both heavy armour
and a shield suffers a -1
Movement penalty.
Armour
Heavy armour

Gromril is the rarest and strongest metal
known of in the Old World. Only a very few
Dwarf smiths know the secret of forging
gromril, and a suit of armour made from it
fetches a huge price. 
Gromril armour gives the wearer a 4+ basic
save, and does not slow him down if he is
also armed with a shield.
There are two types of shield common to the warriors of Mordheim: the first is made of wood, occasionally
reinforced with metal plates. This basic type of shield, although strong, does tend to splinter, but this can
sometimes save the user’s life as his enemy’s weapon can get trapped allowing him to strike back whilst his
enemy struggles to free his weapon. 
Metal shields are heavy and cumbersome, but last much longer and can take a battering. A typical Empire
shield is either round or triangular, and carries the emblem of the province or city of its owner.
ARMOUR SAVING THROW
Save: A model with a shield has a basic save of 6 on a D6.
Shield
Bucklers are small, round shields designed for parrying or deflecting blows. They are usually made of steel for
they need to be tremendously durable to survive the brutal blows of hand-to-hand combat. Using a buckler
requires great skill, but a nimble warrior can protect himself from blows which would otherwise cripple him.
Parry: A model equipped with a buckler may parry the first blow in each round of hand-to-hand combat. When
his opponent scores a hit, a model with a buckler may roll 1D6. If the score is greater than the highest to hit
score of his opponent, the model has parried the blow, and that attack is discarded. A model may not parry
attacks made with double or more its own Strength – they are simply too powerful to be stopped.
Helmet
From the shining steel helmets of Bretonnian knights to the leather caps of the Skaven, all sensible warriors try
to protect the most vulnerable part of their body – their head. Even the most vain fighters still use a helmet,
as it can be festooned with plumes, horns and other decorations.
Helmets come in varying shapes and sizes, but their basic function remains the same.
Avoid stun: A model that is equipped with a helmet has a special 4+ save
on a D6 against being stunned. If the save is made, treat the stunned
result as knocked down instead. This save is not modified by the
opponent’s Strength.
Ithilmar armour
Ithilmar is a silvery metal which is as light as silk and
stronger than steel. Elves are experts at fashioning
weapons and armour from ithilmar, and the Elven
kingdom of Caledor is the only place in the world
where this metal can be found.
Ithilmar armour gives the wearer a 5+ basic save,
and does not slow him down if he is also armed
with a shield.
Gromril armour
Buckler

This section covers all the strange and unusual equipment your warriors can
find in the ruins or buy from the merchants and pedlars in the settlements and
villages around Mordheim.
Only Heroes may buy and carry the equipment described in this section. You may
not give it to Henchmen unless the rules specifically say so.
rope & hook
A warrior using a rope & hook will find it much
easier to move amongst the ruins of Mordheim. 
A warrior equipped with a rope & hook may re-roll
failed Initiative tests when climbing up and down.
poisons and drugs
The use of poison is almost universally abhorred, but
in the ruthless and brutal battles fought in
Mordheim, desperate warbands often resort to the
use of envenomed blades.
Poison may not be used with blackpowder weapons.
When you buy a vial of poison, there is always only
enough to last the duration of one battle. You can
only poison a single weapon with one vial of poison.
Black Lotus
In the deepest forests of the Southlands grows a plant
that is extremely poisonous. It is known as Black
Lotus and is much sought after by alchemists,
assassins, wizards of the Western Coast and bored
wives. 
A weapon coated with the sap of the Black Lotus will
wound its target automatically if you roll a 6 to hit.
Note that you can still roll a dice for every wound
inflicted in this way. If you roll a 6, you will inflict a
critical hit with that roll. If you do not roll a 6, you will
cause a normal wound. Take armour saves as normal.
Dark Venom
This is a poison extracted from Heldrakes, gigantic
sea serpents that plague the Western Ocean and the
coast of Naggaroth. The slightest wound infected by
Dark Venom causes excruciating pain, incapacitating
the bravest of men.
Any hit caused by a weapon coated with Dark Venom
counts as having +1 Strength, so, for example, if a
warrior with Strength 3 wielding a poisoned sword
hits an opponent, he will cause a Strength 4 hit
instead. Armour saving throws are modified to take
into account the increased Strength of the attack.
Mad Cap Mushrooms
The feared cult of Goblin Fanatics of the Worlds Edge
Mountains use these hallucinogenic mushrooms to
drive themselves into a frenzied state.
Effect: Any warrior who takes Mad Cap Mushrooms
before a battle will be subject to frenzy. The Mad Cap
Mushroom has no effect on Undead such as Vampires
and Zombies, or the Possessed.
Side effect: After the battle, roll a D6. On a roll of a 1
the model becomes permanently stupid.
Crimson Shade
Crimson Shade is the name given by Old Worlders to
the leaves of the blood oak of Estalia. It is an
extremely addictive drug, but grants its users
inhuman quickness and strength. 
Effect: A model using Crimson Shade has his
Initiative increased by +D3 points, and Movement
and Strength by +1 (this effect lasts for one game).
Crimson Shade has no effect on Undead such as
Vampires and Zombies, or the Possessed.
Side effects: After the battle, roll 2D6. On a roll of 
2-3, the model becomes addicted and you must try to
buy him a new batch of Crimson Shade before every
battle from now on. If you fail to buy any, he will leave
your warband. On a roll of 12 the model’s Initiative is
increased permanently by +1.
Mandrake Root
The man-shaped Mandrake Root grows in the rotting
swamps of Sylvania. It is a noxious, deadly plant
which is highly addictive and slowly kills its users, but
also allows them to shrug off almost any pain.
Effect: Mandrake Root makes a man almost oblivious
to pain. His Toughness is increased by +1 for the
duration of a battle and he treats all stunned results
as knocked down instead. Mandrake Root has no
effect on Undead, such as Vampires and Zombies, or
on the Possessed.
Side effects: Mandrake Root is highly poisonous. At
the end of the battle, roll 2D6. On a roll of 2-3 the
model loses 1 point of Toughness permanently.
Miscellaneous equipment

lucky charm
These take many shapes, but the most common are
symbolic hammers that a pious Sigmarite Priest has
touched, or carved heads of ancient Dwarf gods.
The first time a model with a lucky charm
is hit in a battle they roll a D6. On a 4+
the hit is discarded and no damage is
suffered. Owning two or more charms
does not confer any extra benefits, the model may
still only try to discard the first hit. 
Blessed water
The priests of Ulric, Sigmar, Mórr and Manann hold
great power over evil. Pure water from a clear
fountain, blessed by one of these priests, is said to
burn things of darkness and evil.
A vial of blessed water contains enough liquid for just
one use, and has a thrown range of twice the
thrower’s Strength in inches. Roll to hit using the
model’s BS. No modifiers for range or moving apply.
Blessed water causes 1 wound on Undead, Daemon
or Possessed models automatically. There is no
armour save. Undead or Possessed models may not
use blessed water.
elven cloak
Made from the hair of Elven maidens and interwoven
with living tree leaves, an Elven cloak is a wonder to
behold. A warrior wearing such a cloak will blend into
the shadows, making it very difficult to shoot at them
with missile weapons. Elven cloaks rarely come up for
sale, but are sometimes recovered from dead warriors
or offered by Elves as rewards to men who have
served them in some way. 
A warrior aiming a missile weapon at a warrior
wearing an Elven cloak suffers -1 on his to hit roll.
hunting arrows
The best hunting arrows are made by the hunters of
Drakwald forest. They have sharp, barbed arrowheads
which cause excruciating pain when they hit their
target. A skilled archer can severely injure his target
with a single arrow.
A model using a short bow, bow, long bow or Elf bow
may use these arrows. They add +1 to all Injury rolls.
garlic
Garlic is a common herb grown in most gardens of
the Empire. It is said to ward off Vampires and other
denizens of the dark. A Vampire must pass a
Leadership test or it will be unable to charge a model
carrying a clove of garlic. Garlic lasts for the duration
of one battle only, whether it is used or not.
net
Steel nets, such as those used by Pit Fighters, can be
used in battles. Once per game, the net may be
thrown in the shooting phase instead of the model
shooting a missile weapon. Treat the net as a missile
weapon in all respects with a range of 8". Use the
model’s BS to determine whether the net hits or not
– there are no movement or range penalties. If it hits,
the target must immediately roll a D6. If the result is
equal to, or lower than his Strength, he rips the net
apart. If the result is higher, he may not move, shoot
or cast spells in his next turn, although he is not
otherwise affected. In either case the net is lost.
bugman’s ale
Of all the Dwarf brewmasters, Josef Bugman is the
most famous. His ale is known throughout the Old
World, and widely regarded as the best.
A warband that drinks a barrel of Bugman’s before a
battle will be immune to fear for the whole of the
battle. Elves may not drink Bugman’s ale as they are
far too delicate to cope with its effects. There is only
enough ale to supply the warband for one battle.

tome of magic
Sometimes books of forbidden lore are offered for
sale in the markets and dark alleys of the settlements
around Mordheim.
If a warband includes a wizard, he will gain an extra
spell from the tome, permanently. He may randomly
generate this new spell from his own list or the Lesser
Magic list. See the Magic section for details. The
benefits from each Tome of Magic apply to only one
model.
holy tome
Books of prayers and descriptions of the holy deeds
of religious heroes like Sigmar Heldenhammer are
copied by hand in the scriptoriums of Sigmar and
Ulric, and given or sold to the faithful. Of these tomes,
the Deus Sigmar is the most common and well
known, but other texts such as the Scriptures of
Sigmar are also sold to those who follow the faith. A
holy man can recite his prayers from such a book,
strengthening his faith and belief.
A Warrior Priest or Sister of Sigmar with a holy tome
can add +1 to the score when determining whether
he (or she) can recite a spell successfully or not.
healing herbs
Certain plants that grow on the banks of the River Stir
have curative properties. Herbalists collect their roots
and leaves and use them to treat the sick and
wounded.
A Hero with healing herbs can use them at the
beginning of any of his recovery phases as long as he
is not engaged in hand-to-hand combat. This restores
all wounds he has previously lost during the game.
holy (unholy) relic
In this age of superstition and religious fanaticism,
holy objects are an important part of life. Relics
abound in the Old World: hairs of Sigmar, pieces from
Ulric’s hammer, teeth of Daemon Princes, all are sold
to men needing encouragement before battle and as
charms against sorcery.
A model with a holy relic will automatically pass the
first Leadership test he is required to make in the
game. If worn by the leader, it will allow him to
automatically pass the first Rout test if he has not
taken any Leadership tests before.
You can only ignore the first
Leadership test in any single
game – owning two or more
holy relics will not allow you
to ignore second and
subsequent tests.
halfling cookbook
All Halfling chefs have their own secret recipes,
and these are recorded in tomes handwritten in
Mootland, the home country of the Halflings.
Food prepared according to these recipes will attract
warriors during these lean times.
The maximum number of warriors allowed in your
warband is increased by +1 (note that neither an
Undead warband nor a Carnival of Chaos warband
can use this item).
animals
Animals are not often offered for sale in Mordheim.
The polluted grass and filthy water cause most
animals to die quickly, and since hunger is
commonplace, many have been butchered for food.
However, some horses occasionally go on sale for
wealthy leaders who enjoy commanding their
subordinates from horseback.
Horses & Warhorses
You may mount one of your Heroes on a horse or
warhorse in the coming battles.
Horses and warhorses can only be used if you are
using the optional rules for mounted models at the
back of the book. 
Only Humans can buy or use horses and warhorses.
Profile
Horse
Warhorse
Wardogs
The men of the Empire have always been experts at
raising ferocious bloodhounds to guard their cattle
and holdings against roaming Goblins and Beastmen.
A highly trained wardog is a dangerous opponent and
worth its weight in gold in Mordheim.
If you purchase a wardog, it will fight exactly like a
member of your warband, though it is treated as part
of the equipment of the Hero who bought it. You will
need a model to represent it on a battlefield.
Wardogs never gain experience, and if they are put
out of action they have exactly the same chance of
recovering as Henchmen (ie, 1-2: Dead; 3-6: Alive).
Wardogs count towards the maximum number of
warriors allowed in your warband.
Profile
Wardog
You could also use the profile above to represent one
of the more exotic animals used by the warbands of
Mordheim, such as trained bears, Chaos familiars or
even fighting monkeys from the far-off Southlands!

lantern
A model that is in possession of a lantern may add +4"
to the distance from which he is able to spot
hidden enemies.
superior blackpowder
The model has acquired a better quality of
blackpowder than is normally available. This new
batch adds +1 Strength to all blackpowder weapons
that the model has. There is enough superior
blackpowder to last for one game.
mordheim map
Some survivors of the cataclysm still remain in the
many settlements around Mordheim, and make a
living by preparing maps of the city from memory.
Many of these maps are faked, and even real ones are
often crude and inaccurate. 
A map can help a warband find their way through the
confusing maze of streets and into areas with rich
buildings to loot.
When you buy a map, roll a D6:
cathayan silk cloak
Some rich warband leaders like to flaunt their wealth
and purchase clothes made out of silk from distant
Cathay. This silk is the most expensive fabric in the
known world, and wearing such clothes is a sure way
to attract attention – especially thieves and assassins!
Any Mercenary warband whose leader is wearing silk
clothes may re-roll the first failed Rout test. However,
after each battle in which the leader is taken out of
action, roll a D6. On a roll of 1-3 the clothes are
ruined and must be discarded.
tears of shallaya
Tears of Shallaya are vials of water from the holy
spring in Couronne. Shallaya is the goddess of healing
and mercy and it is said that this water has curative
properties and is proof against any poison.
A model who drinks a vial of the Tears of Shallaya at
the beginning of a battle will be completely immune
to all poisons for the duration of combat. Undead and
Possessed warriors may not use the Tears of Shallaya.
There is enough liquid in a vial of the Tears of Shallaya
to last for the duration of one battle.
D6
Result
Fake. The map is a fake, and is
completely worthless. It leads you on
a fool’s errand. Your opponent may
automatically choose the next
scenario you play.
2-3
Vague. Though crude, the map is
generally accurate (well… parts of it
are… perhaps!). You may re-roll any
one dice during the next exploration
phase if you wish but you must accept
the result of the second roll.
Catacomb map. The map shows a
way through the catacombs into the
city. You may automatically choose the
scenario next time you fight a battle. 
Accurate. The map is recently made
and very detailed. You may re-roll up
to three dice during the next
exploration phase if you wish. You
must accept the result of the second
roll.
Master map. This is one of the
twelve master maps of Mordheim
made for Count von Steinhardt of
Ostermark. From now on you may
always re-roll one dice when rolling
on the Exploration chart as long as
the Hero who possesses this map was
not taken out of action in the battle.

Mordheim has become home to many magic users
and they roam the ruins hiding from Witch Hunters.
But there are other ways of gaining power over and
above that of a normal mortal man. The gods watch
over their subjects and a priest of strong faith can call
upon them to assist him in battle. Of these, the Priests
of Sigmar are the most common, for Sigmar is the
patron god of the Empire, and his following is strong
during these times of strife. 
allocated spells
The chart below summarises the different kinds of
magic and explains who can use what spells.
Wizard
Type of Magic 
Chaos Magisters
Chaos Rituals
Warlocks
Lesser Magic
Skaven Eshin Sorcerer
Magic of the Horned Rat
Sisters of Sigmar
& Warrior-Priests
Prayers of Sigmar
Necromancers
Necromancy
Each wizard starts with one randomly determined
spell, but may gain more. Roll a D6 and consult the
appropriate chart. If you get the same spell twice, roll
again or lower the spell’s difficulty by 1.
casting spells 
Spells are cast in the shooting phase, and can be used
even if the caster is in hand-to-hand combat. To use a
spell, the wizard must roll equal to or greater than the
spell’s Difficulty score on 2D6. If he fails, he may not
cast a spell that turn. If the test is passed the spell may
be used as described overleaf. A wizard may cast one
spell per turn and may not use missile weapons if he
wants to cast a spell. He can however run!
A wizard may not use magic if he is wearing armour or
has a shield or buckler. The only exception is the
Prayers of Sigmar. Sisters of Sigmar and Warrior-
Priests may wear armour and use their prayers.
damage
Some spells cause direct damage, and are resolved
the same way as damage from shooting or blows in
hand-to-hand combat. Spells do not cause critical hits.
Models always receive armour saves against wounds
caused by spells unless noted otherwise.
here have always been those who have used
magic: witches and wizards, wise women and
warlocks. But as all scholars know, all magic is
dangerous, for it originates from Chaos, the source of
corruption and change. Indeed, during these times,
sorcery is illegal and punishable by death. 
Wizards have little say in whether the world of magic
touches them or not. They are born with second sight
and to them the world of magical energies and spells
is much more real than the mundane world of normal
mortals. With all the persecution, fear and hatred it is
little wonder that wizards become reclusive and
suspicious, and many are downright insane. Some
even turn to the worship of the dark gods, and others
follow the forbidden path of necromancy.

Prayers of Sigmar
The Prayers of Sigmar can be used by Witch Hunter Warrior Priests and Sigmarite Matriarchs. A
warrior may use the divine power of Sigmar while wearing armour. Prayers of Sigmar are not
regarded as spells, so any special protection against spells does not affect them.
The Hammer of Sigmar
This weapon of the faithful glows with a golden light, imbued as it is with the righteous power of
Sigmar.
The wielder gains +2 Strength in hand-to-hand combat and all hits he inflicts cause double
damage (eg, 2 wounds instead of 1). The Priest must test each shooting phase he wants to use 
the Hammer.
Hearts of Steel
As the three words of power are spoken, waves of glory surround the servant of Sigmar. The
faithful are heartened by the warrior god’s presence.
Any allied warriors within 8" of the warrior become immune to Fear and All Alone tests. In
addition, the whole warband gains +1 to any Rout tests they have to make. The effects of this spell
last until the caster is knocked down, stunned or put out of action. If cast again the effects are not
cumulative, ie, the maximum bonus to Rout tests remains +1.
Soulfire
The wrath of Sigmar comes to earth. Purifying flames surround the Priest and wipe out those who
resist the righteous fury of the God-Emperor!
All enemy models within 4" of the servant of Sigmar suffer a Strength 3 hit. No armour saves are
allowed. The servants of darkness and Chaos are especially susceptible to Sigmar’s holy power.
Undead and Possessed models in range suffer a Strength 5 hit instead.
Shield of Faith
A shield of pure white light appears in front of the Priest. As long as his faith remains strong the
shield will protect him.
The Priest is immune to all spells. Roll at the beginning of each turn in the recovery phase. On a
roll of 1 or 2 the shield disappears.
Healing Hand
Difficulty 5
Laying hands upon a wounded comrade, the servant of Sigmar calls upon his Lord to heal the
warrior’s wounds.
Any one model within 2" of the Priest (including himself) may be healed. The warrior is restored
to his full quota of Wounds. In addition, if any friendly models within 2" are stunned or knocked
down, they immediately come to their senses, stand up, and continue fighting as normal. 
Armour of Righteousness
Impenetrable armour covers the Priest and the fiery image of a twin-tailed comet burns above
his head. 
The Priest has an armour save of 2+ which replaces his normal armour save. In addition, he causes
fear in his enemies and is therefore immune to fear himself.
The power of the Armour of Righteousness lasts until the beginning of the Priest’s next 
Shooting phase.
Those with great faith in the gods can call upon their divine power. The priests of Sigmar
can pray for many miracles: healing of wounds, strengthening the resolve of their
comrades or the banishment of Daemonic creatures and the Undead.

N cromancy
Necromancy is the magic of the dead. It grants Necromancers the power to raise the dead
and command spirits, but also to destroy the vitality of the living.
Lifestealer
Difficulty 10
The Necromancer sucks out the very essence of life from his victim, stealing its vigour for himself.
You may choose a single model within 6". The target suffers a wound (no save allowed) and the
Necromancer gains an extra wound for the duration of the battle. This may take the Necromancer’s
Wounds above his original maximum value. This spell will not affect the Possessed or any Undead
models.
Re-Animation
Difficulty 5 
At the spoken command of the Necromancer, the dead rise to fight again.
One Zombie that went out of action during the last hand-to-hand combat or Shooting phase
immediately returns to the battle. Place the model within 6" of the Necromancer. The model
cannot be placed straight into hand-to-hand combat with an enemy model.
Death vision 
The Necromancer calls on the power of Necromancy to reveal the moment of his enemies’ death.
The Necromancer causes fear in his enemies for the duration of the battle. 
Spell of Doom
The Necromancer whispers to the sleeping dead to rise up from the ground and seize his enemies.
Choose one enemy model within 12". The model must immediately roll equal to or less than his
Strength on a D6 or the dead emerging from the earth will rend him with supernatural power. If
he fails, you may roll on the Injury table to see what happens to the unfortunate warrior.
Call of Vanhel
The Necromancer summons the world of the dead to invigorate his Undead servants.
A single Zombie or Dire Wolf within 6" of the Necromancer may immediately move again up to its
maximum Movement distance (ie, 9" in the case of Dire Wolves). If this moves them into base
contact with an enemy model, they count as charging.
Spell of Awakening
Difficulty: Auto
The Necromancer calls the soul of a slain Hero back to his body and enslaves him with corrupt
magic. 
If an enemy Hero is killed (ie, your opponent rolls 11-16 on the Serious Injury chart after the
battle) then the Necromancer may raise him to fight as a Zombie in his servitude. 
The dead Hero retains his characteristics and all his weapons and armour but may not use any
other equipment or skills. He may no longer run, counts as a Henchman group on his own, and
may not gain additional experience. This spell always succeeds (rules for Henchmen and
experience are described later). The new Zombie follows all the normal Zombie rules (immune to
poison, causes fear) except for retaining his profile, weapons and armour.
e

Chaos rituals employ the raw power of the darkest magic, and are therefore supremely
useful in bringing pain and suffering, as well as change and mutation.
Chaos rituals are used by Magisters of the Cult of the Possessed, and Daemons.
Vision of Torment
Difficulty 10
The Chaos Mage summons horrible visions of the realm of Chaos, causing his enemy to recoil in
utter horror.
This spell has a range of 6" and must be cast on the closest enemy model. If the Chaos Mage is in
hand-to-hand combat, he must choose his target from those in base contact with him. The affected
model is immediately stunned. If the model cannot be stunned it is knocked down instead. 
Eye of God
The Chaos Mage implores the Dark gods to grant a boon to their servant.
You may use the Eye of God successfully only once per battle. Choose any single model within 6",
friend or foe. Roll a D6 to see what happens to the affected model. 
D6
Result
The wrath of the gods descends upon the target. The model is taken out of action immediately. 
He does not have to roll on the Serious Injury chart after the battle though. 
2-5
The model gains +1 to any one of his characteristics during this battle (chosen by the player who 
cast the spell).
The model gains +1 to all of its characteristics for the duration of the battle.
Dark Blood
The Chaos Mage cuts his palm and his blood spurts out, burning flesh and armour.
This attack has a range of 8" and causes D3 S5 hits. It hits the first model in its path. After using
this spell the Chaos Mage must roll on the Injury table for himself to see how dangerous the
wound is, though treat the out of action result as stunned instead. 
Lure of Chaos
The Chaos Mage calls upon the taint of chaos which exists in the inner soul of all living beings.
The spell has a range of 12" and must be cast on the closest enemy model. Roll a D6 and add the
Chaos Mage’s Leadership to the score. Then roll a D6 and add the target’s Leadership to the score.
If the Chaos Mage beats his opponent’s score he gains control of the model until the model passes
a Leadership test in his own recovery phase. The model may not commit suicide, but can attack
models on his own side, and will not fight warriors from the Chaos Mage’s warband. If he was
engaged in hand-to-hand combat with any warriors of the Chaos Mage’s warband, they will
immediately move 1" apart.
Wings of Darkness
The Chaos Mage is lifted from the ground by two shadowy Daemons and carried wherever he
wants to go.
The Chaos Mage may immediately move anywhere within 12", including into base contact with an
enemy, in which case he counts as charging. If he engages a fleeing enemy, in the close combat
phase he will score one automatic hit and then his opponent will flee again (if he survives). 
Word of Pain
Speaking the forbidden name of his dark god, the Chaos Mage causes indescribable pain to all
who hear it.
All models within 3" of the Chaos Mage, friend or foe, suffer one S3 hit. No armour saves are
allowed.
Chaos rituals

Lesser magic
Those who have not been schooled in the ways of magic can cast only relatively simple
spells. Many human wizards, lacking the tradition of sorcery and the grimoires of
Necromancers and Chaos Mages, have to rely on their own natural aptitude and
experimentation.
Lesser Magic (or hedge magic) is used by human warlocks. It may not be as awesome as the mighty
spells of Necromancers and Chaos Mages, but it is still dangerous.
Fires of U’Zhul
The wizard summons a fiery ball of flames and hurls it upon his enemies.
The fireball has a range of 18" and causes one Strength 4 hit. It strikes the first model in its path.
Armour saves are taken as normal (ie, with -1 modifier).
Flight of Zimmeran
Calling upon the power of the winds of magic, the wizard walks on air.
The wizard may immediately move anywhere within 12", including into base contact with an
enemy, in which case he counts as charging. If he engages a fleeing enemy in the close combat
phase he will score 1 automatic hit and then his opponent will flee again (if he survives).
Dread of Aramar
The wizard places a sense of mind-numbing fear into the minds of his opponents.
A single model within 12" of the wizard must pass a Leadership test or flee 2D6" directly away from
him. If he flees, he must test at the start of each of his own movement phases and will continue to
flee until he passes a test. Note that this spell does not affect Undead or any model immune to
fear.
Silver Arrows of Arha
Silvery arrows appear from thin air and circle around the wizard, shooting out to strike his foes.
Unlike other spells, this cannot be cast whilst in hand-to-hand combat. The spell summons D6+2
arrows which the wizard can use to shoot against one enemy model. The arrows have a range of
24". Use the wizard’s own Ballistic Skill to determine whether he hits or not, but ignore movement,
range and cover penalties. The arrows cause one S3 hit each.
Luck of Shemtek
The wizard summons the fickle power of magic to manipulate chance. 
The wizard may re-roll all his failed dice rolls, though the second results
stand. The effect lasts until the beginning of his own next turn.
Sword of Rezhebel
A flaming sword appears in the hand of the wizard,
promising red ruin to all who stand in his way.
The sword gives the wizard +1 Attack, +2 Strength and +2
Weapon Skill. Take a Leadership test at the beginning of
each of the wizard’s own turns. If the test fails, the sword
disappears.

Magic of the horned rat
This brand of sorcery is used by the Skaven. It is a sinister form of magic which calls upon the
Skaven deity, a loathsome daemonic god known as the Horned Rat.
Warpfire
A green flame leaps from the outstretched paw of the Sorcerer and burns its victims with
indescribable agony.
The spell has a range of 8", hitting the first model in its path. The spell causes D3 Strength 4 hits
on its target, and one Strength 3 hit on each model within 2" of the target.
Children of the Horned Rat
Difficulty Auto
The Sorcerer raises his paws and calls upon the Father of the Skaven to send forth his servants.
This spell must be used before the game, and may only be used once. When cast, the spell
summons D3 Giant Rats, which are placed within 6" of the Sorcerer. The Sorcerer may cast this
spell successfully only once per battle, and the rats disappear after the battle. They do not count
towards the maximum size of the Skaven warband.
Gnawdoom
The target is attacked by rats and soon is covered from head to foot in small, bleeding wounds.
The Gnawdoom causes 2D6 Strength 1 hits on a single model within 8" of the caster.
Black Fury
With a chittering incantation the Sorcerer turns into a monstrous rat-like creature, which
attacks with an insane fury.
The Sorcerer may immediately charge any enemy model within 12" (ignoring any terrain and
interposing models) and gains 2 extra Attacks and +1 Strength during this turn’s hand-to-hand
combat phase only.
Eye of the Warp
Gaze into the eye of the warp and despair!
All standing models in base contact with the Sorcerer must take an immediate Leadership test. If
they fail, they each suffer a Strength 3 hit and must run 2D6" directly away from the Sorcerer,
exactly as if they had lost their nerve when fighting against more than one opponent.
Sorcerer’s Curse
The Sorcerer points a claw towards one of his enemies and curses him in the name of the
Horned One.
The spell has a range of 12" and affects a single model within range. The target must re-roll
any successful armour saves and to hit rolls during the Skaven hand-to-hand phase and his
own next shooting and hand-to-hand combat phases.