Night in the „Arosa“ hotel. Creaking ﬂ oor boards, banging window shutters, strange 
noises. Behind the wafer-thin walls, no sound remains hidden from eavesdropping ears.
Suddenly: a bang! A scream! Hurried steps fade away … 
Nobody saw anything! But everybody heard everybody else … There are clues from the 
hotel guests on all ﬂ oors. But which of them will be discovered? And which of them 
will remain hidden? If you don’t want a murder rap pinned on you, you should lay the 
blame on the other players instead. Because one thing is for sure: the overwhelming 
evidence will convict the culprit.
A thriller in the MYSTERY TOWER for 2 to 6 good noses,
10 years and up, by Alessandro Zucchini
ears
Idea and Object of the Game
The players arouse suspicion: they throw their clues (in the form of little wooden 
cubes) into the shaft of the hotel tower. If you prick up your ears, you‘ll be able to 
guess on which ﬂ oors the suspicious clues come to rest. With this knowledge, you can 
denounce other players and cover your own tracks.
The culprit is the one who has left particularly suspicious clues in the vicinity of the 
scene of the crime. Whoever attracts the fewest suspicious facts, wins.
es
rs
A t

Hotelschacht
Game Materials
PROLOG: 2 Dead at the „Arosa“ Hotel—and Clues Everywhere …
Stick the 7 ﬂ oors one on top of the other 
above the ground ﬂ oor (ﬂ oor 0) of the 
hotel so that a building is erected. Put 
the investigation sheet next to it. Each 
player puts the 20 clues of his color as a 
 „supply“ in front of him.
The player who was the last to have a 
knife in his hand throws both victims 
into the shaft of the hotel. After that, 
players in turn throw two each of their 
own clues, one after the other, into 
the shaft.
1 hotel (8 parts)
1 investigation sheet
120 clues 
in 6 colors
MAIN PLAY: The Investigation
Course of the Game
The main play is divided into two acts: only when both victims have been found in 
act I does act II begin. Now players suspect one another and try to cover their own 
tracks.
2 victims (red)
Attention: All players should 
listen carefully in order to dis-
cern onto which ﬂ oors victims 
and clues might have fallen.

Act I: Searching for Victims
Whoever was the last person inside a hotel begins. The other players follow clockwise. 
On your turn, you act as an investigator. You inspect a ﬂ oor by carefully lifting it, thus 
affording a view of the area inside the ﬂ oor.
Case 1: The investigator doesn’t ﬁ nd a 
victim on the exposed ﬂ oor.
But if the investigator ﬁ nds clues, he 
takes these out. Then he puts the lifted 
parts of the building on again and throws 
all clues he took out back into the shaft, 
one after another.
Sloppy investigation: since the investigator looked for a victim in the wrong place, 
now he himself leaves an additional clue: he throws (another) one of his own 
clues from his supply into the shaft.
Case 2: There is indeed one victim on the exposed 
ﬂ oor. The investigator places this victim on the 
corresponding space of the investigation sheet, 
thus marking this ﬂ oor as a crime scene. If both 
victims are on the same ﬂ oor, they are both 
placed on the same space of the investigation 
sheet. In this case, there is only one crime scene.
Note: You should always lift the 
desired ﬂ oor with both hands, one of 
which holds the lower ﬂ oors. If, in spite 
of that, clues fall out of the hotel, throw 
these clues back into the shaft at the 
end of the turn.
In this example, 
the two 
crime scenes 
are located on 
ﬂ oors 3 and 5.
Now one of two things might occur:

Remember: Just clues from the 
players’ supplies are put on the 
 investigation sheet. All clues that have 
been found in the hotel are thrown 
back into the shaft at the end of the 
turn.
After that, the investigator 
takes all clues out of the 
hotel ﬂ oor that has been 
inspected, closes the hotel 
again, and throws all clues he 
took out back into the shaft, 
one after another.
When both victims have been found, the 
search for victims is over.
Are there clues from other players at the 
crime scene? Very suspicious …!!!
Note that down on the investigation sheet 
immediately: for each of their own clues at 
the crime scene, the „caught“ players have 
to put one clue each from their supply on 
the corresponding ﬂ oor of the investigation 
sheet. However, the investigator „over-
looks“ his own clues: he doesn’t lay any of 
his own clues on the investigation sheet.
Yellow places the victim – but no clues – on the 
investigation sheet. Blue has to place two clues 
from his own supply on the investigation sheet.
Exposed 5th 
ﬂ oor
Victim
 Investigation sheet
Note: Whoever throws clues into 
the shaft always names their color, 
so that the other players can follow 
the events without difﬁ culty.
Clues from 
the supply

Act II: Suspecting Other Players or Covering Your Tracks
Suspecting Other Players:
The investigator names one or more players whom he suspects. Then he exposes one 
ﬂ oor on which he expects clues from the suspects.
Now this ﬂ oor is inspected:
 Each suspected player – for each of his own clues that are lying on the exposed 
ﬂ oor – has to put one clue from his own supply on the respective ﬂ oor of the 
investigation sheet.
 Now the investigator takes all clues from the exposed ﬂ oor, closes the hotel, and 
throws all clues he took out back into the shaft, one after the other.
 Sloppy investigation: for each suspected player who did not have any clues on the 
exposed ﬂ oor, the investigator has to throw an additional one of his own clues 
from his supply into the shaft.
Players continue playing in turn. On your turn, you, as the investigator, choose one of 
these two actions:
 Suspecting other players
 Covering your tracks
The investigator always calls out loud the action he chooses before carrying it out.

Yellow 
supply
Example: Investigator Yellow 
suspects Gray and Blue on the 
3rd ﬂ oor. In fact, two of Gray’s 
clues are lying there; but none 
from Blue. Gray puts two clues 
from his supply on the 3rd ﬂ oor 
space of the investigation sheet.
Yellow wrongly suspected Blue. For this 
false accusation, Yellow has to throw ano-
ther one of his own clues from his supply into 
the shaft of the hotel that has been closed again.
Good for Brown: he was not suspected and 
doesn’t have to put a clue on the investigation 
sheet.
SPECIAL CASE „Ground ﬂ oor“: If you want to successfully investigate on the 
ground ﬂ oor, at least one of your own clues must be present 
there. If this is the case, the ground ﬂ oor is handled like all 
other ﬂ oors. If the investigator has none of his own clues on 
the ground ﬂ oor, the following occurs:
 No clues from suspects are put on the investigation sheet.
 The investigator throws clues from his own supply, one for each suspected 
player, into the shaft.
 As usual, he throws all clues he found on the exposed ﬂ oor (ground ﬂ oor) 
back into the shaft.
Gray 
supply
Investigation sheet
exposed 
3rd ﬂ oor

 The investigator exposes a ﬂ oor of his choice. He counts his own clues there. Then he 
may remove as many of his own clues (not more) from the corresponding ﬂ oor on the 
investigation sheet as he has found on the exposed ﬂ oor of the hotel tower, and put 
them back into his supply.
 Now he takes out all clues from the exposed ﬂ oor, closes the hotel, and throws the 
clues he took out back into the shaft, one after the other.
 Sloppy job: if none of his own clues is on the exposed ﬂ oor, the investigator throws 
an additional one of his own clues from his supply into the shaft.
FINALE: Culprit and Winner
The game ends 
 as soon as there are 10 clues of one player on the investigation sheet, or
 as soon as one player has no clues left in his supply.
It may happen towards the end of the game that a player has to place more clues on 
the investigation sheet than he has left in his supply. In this case, he takes the clues 
required out of the exposed ﬂ oor of the hotel.
Covering Your Tracks:
If there are any of your own clues on the investigation sheet, you can remove them as 
an investigator.
Now the culprit and the winner of the game are determined. The clues on the investigation 
sheet result in the following number of suspicion points:
 Each clue lying at a crime scene counts as 
3 suspicion points.
 Each clue adjacent to a crime scene counts as 
2 suspicion points.
 Every other clue counts as 
1 suspicion points.

Example: Blue is the murderer! He ends the game with 
21 suspicion points: two blue clues are at crime scenes (2 
x 3 = 6 suspicion points). Six blue clues are lying adjacent 
to crime scenes (6 x 2 = 12 suspicion points). Three more 
blue clues are on other ﬂ oors (3 x 1 = 3 suspicion points). 
Brown, with only 9 suspicion points, is the most innocent 
player. He wins and is immediately promoted to chief 
superintendent.
The player with the most suspicion points is 
convicted as the culprit.
The player with the least suspicion points may 
congratulate himself as the winner.
There can be several culprits and several winners.
© 2010 Zoch GmbH
Author: Alessandro Zucchini
Artist: Tobias Schweiger
Setting and layout: Oliver Richtberg
English translation: Sybille & Bruce Whitehill, „Word for Wort“
www.zoch-verlag.com
Article no.: 60 113 0500
Distribution in Switzerland: 
Carletto AG
Moosacherstraße 14, Postfach
CH-8820 Wädenswil
www.carletto.ch
Crime
Scene
Crime
Scene