RULES
TM
min
3 +
2 - 4
GYOM
ÉMILIE & JÉRÔME SOLEIL
Working together, help Morris hide his eggs at the 
bottom of the waterfall to keep them away from this 
nosy man. When it’s your turn, make Morris slide down 
the waterfall and place his eggs in the hiding spots if 
they are whole. If the eggs are broken, they will be a 
clue for the explorer who will come closer to the nest! 
Empty the nest before the explorer discovers it! 
Oh no, an explorer has arrived 
on the island!
• 1 Wooden Dodo
• 1 Wooden Explorer
• 1 Waterfall slope
• 10 Hiding Spot tiles
GAME 
CONTENTS 
• 28 Egg tokens
(7 blue eggs, 7 purple eggs, 7 red eggs, 7 yellow eggs)
• 1 game board
blueorangegames.eu/en/games/ 
morristhedodo/#downloads

Get all the eggs to safety using Morris 
and the Waterfall slope before 
the explorer reaches the nest.
OBJECT OF THE GAME
SETUP
Before you begin the game, empty all 
the contents out of the box.
	
Place the box in the center of the 
table, and set the board inside, Island 
side up. 
	
Take the Waterfall slope and place 
it between the side of the box and 
the board, as shown on the diagram. 
	
Make 4 piles of 7 eggs, sorting them 
by color. Then, place them on the nest 
in the center of the board.
	
Place the 10 Hiding spot tiles, 
Eggs side up, in a half circle around 
the bottom of the Waterfall slope, 
leaving enough space around the slope 
for Morris’ future sliding.
	
Place the explorer on the flowers of 
the board, in front of 
the purple stone.
The last player to have 
touched an egg is first to 
play, and then the game 
continues in clockwise order. 
	
Place Morris in front 
of the waterfall.

	 Place Morris on the stone on top of the Waterfall. 
	 Choose an egg in the nest with its Whole egg side up, and place it where you want 
on Morris: either on his head, or on one of his wings. 
	 Push Morris down the slope, and let him slide. 
	 Once Morris has stopped, check the egg:
HOW TO PLAY
When it’s your turn to play:
Move the adventurer back 1 space
Move 
the adventurer 
back 2 spaces
Move 
the adventurer 
back 3 spaces
The Hiding Spots
As soon as a Hiding Spot is full, move the explorer back 
by as many stones as indicated on the Hiding Spot tile.
3 3
3 3
The egg is intact: yesss!
Place it on one of the free slots 
with the same color as the egg on 
either of the Hiding Spots.
On some of the Hiding spots, there 
are multicolored slots where you can 
place eggs of any color.
It’s a broken shell: 
Oh nooo! Your egg is broken. 
Set it aside, it won’t be used for the rest 
of the game. Move the explorer up to the 
next stone of the same color as the broken 
egg. He has heard a noise, and is coming 
dangerously close to Morris’ nest. 
The last stone of the path is 
multicolored: a broken egg 
of any color will move 
the Explorer up to this stone.

VARIATION: Crazy Morris!
Play exactly the same way, except that on your turn, place 2 eggs instead of just 
1 on Morris. When Morris reaches the bottom of the waterfall, check the state of 
the 2 eggs: 
Both eggs are whole: WELL DONE! You can hide them in the same hiding 
spot, or in 2 different hiding spots, as long as the slots are empty, and the 
same color as the 2 eggs.
The 2 eggs are broken: too bad! Move the explorer up to the next stone of 
the same color as the egg of your choice between the two, and then move 
the explorer to the next stone of the same color as the remaining egg.
One egg is whole, and the other is broken: that’s not so bad! Move up the 
explorer for the broken egg AND put the whole egg in one of the hiding spots. 
Either the explorer has reached the multicolored stone while there are still eggs 
inside: that’s too bad, Morris did not succeed in saving enough eggs from the 
explorer’s grabby paws. The game is lost for all the players.
Either Morris managed to get all the eggs out of the nest while the explorer is still 
on his way: well done! You’ve all succeeded in saving Morris and his eggs!
END OF THE GAME
The game can end in one of two ways:
© 2023 Blue Orange Edition. Morris the Dodo and Blue 
Orange are trademarks of Blue Orange Edition, France. 
Game published and distributed under license by Blue Orange, 
97 impasse Jean Lamour, 54700 Pont-à-Mousson, France. 
www.blueorangegames.eu