In Mosaic, you will guide an ancient civilization from its 
founding. Your decisions will determine whether it will 
thrive and be remembered as the greatest civilization in 
history, or falter and be lost to the sands of time. 
Which Leader will guide you? Which technologies and 
advantages will your civilization research? Where will 
you found your starting city? Will you focus on expansion 
or productivity? Will your people be great builders or 
great thinkers? Will you build soaring wonders or trade 
networks? Will you found new cities and towns, or recruit 
powerful armies to create an empire? Will your people 
praise you during a golden age, or curse you for your 
oppressive taxes?
Each decision that you make is another shining stone in 
your civilization’s unique mosaic. 

At its core, Mosaic is a straight forward action-selection game. 
However, you’ll find that the results of your actions throughout 
the game allow you to pursue deep, interlocking strategies in 
your pursuit of victory points (VPs) to win the game.
Prior to starting play, you’ll perform the following steps:
1)	 Populate the Mapboard with Trade Good Tiles and 
Cache Tiles.
2)	 Each Player will select a Unique Leader that has a special 
power and starting assets
3)	 Each player will draft 5 Starting Technology Cards
4)	 Each Player will place their Starting City in a hex on the 
board, taking the Trade Good or Cache Tile there.
Play will then begin with the Starting Player. On each of your 
turns, you’ll choose one of the 8 possible actions. Throughout 
the game, you’ll attempt to maximize the efficiency of the 
actions while:
1)	 Building your production ‘engine’ on your player board by 
taking Technology Cards that will increase your production 
bonuses, or by increasing your Population with Food.
2)	 Producing one of the 3 Standard Currencies using the 
Work action (Your Population + That Currency Production 
Bonus) so that you’ll have enough to perform actions on 
future turns.
3)	 Building Cities, Port Cities, and Towns on the map to gain 
the Trade Goods and Cache Tiles there, while increasing 
your Influence (Area Majority) in a Region. Having the most 
Influence in a Region will allow you to score Victory Points 
(VP’s) during Empire Scoring Events.
4)	 Building/ Moving Military Units that act as mobile Influence.
5)	 Constructing Wonders to gain influence and score VP’s. Each 
Wonder scores at the end of the game in unique ways.
6)	 Developing a Government for your Civilization that gives 
you unique benefits and a unique way to earn VPs during 
Empire Scoring events. 
7)	 Taxing/ Tariffing to gain Money, which can be used as a 
replacement for any of the 3 Standard Currencies, but 
at double the cost. Taxing/ Tariffing increases ‘Unrest’, 
which must be offset before the end of the game to 
avoid losing VP’s.
8)	 Spending Food to increase your Population, which you’ll 
need to maximize production (Work) and to build Cities. 
Throughout the game, you’ll also be earning VPs by acquiring 
Civilization Achievements, Golden Ages, Projects, Wonders, and 
Technologies that score points at the end of the game, as well 
as achieving Area Majority in as many Regions as possible to 
score during Empire Scoring events. The race for these scoring 
opportunities is the driving tension in the game. Managing all of 
these competing requirements will determine your Civilization’s 
success or failure. 
All Technologies and Projects give your Civilization unique 
abilities, as well as symbols that represent the increase in one of 
the 9 Pillars of Civilization:
Acquiring these Pillars is important in creating the unique 
mosaic of your civilization. They are used as prerequisites for 
many new technologies, as well as for scoring. Also, by pursuing 
specialization in one or more Pillars of Civilization, you may be 
able to claim a ‘Golden Age’ of that type.
As the game goes on and your Civilization grows, Empire Scoring 
cards are eventually revealed from the four decks. Each time an 
Empire Scoring card is revealed, your civilization will score for 
each region that you dominate with your cities, towns, wonders, 
and military units. 
After the third Empire Scoring card is revealed, there is 
one final turn and the game ends. You will then score for your 
cities and towns, your wonders, projects, manufactory towns, 
civilization achievements, golden ages, and for your cards that 
score for your unique Pillars of Civilization.
GAME OVERVIEW
Science
Economy
Food Production
Population/ Health
Government
Building
Military/ Empire
Culture
Urbanization

1 Game Board
The map has a hex grid and is divided into seven regions:
Hispania, Gaul, Italia, Greece, Assyria, Egypt, and Numidia 
It also has spaces for the four decks and the card offer areas from each deck (Build, Technology, Population, and Tax & Tariff), and 
spaces to represent the other four actions available in the game (Work, Military, Wonders, and Government).
Hispania
Gaul
Build Offer
Offer
Work
Wonders
Military
Government
Tax & Tariff 
Offer
Tax & Tariff 
Holding
Area
Technology Offer
Italia
Greece
Port Hex
Cache Hex
Assyria
Egypt
Numidia
Food (1’s & 5’s)
Money (1’s, 5’s, 10’s and 20’s)
Stone (1’s & 5’s)
Ideas (1’s & 5’s)
4 Sets of Currency Tokens / Coins
Currencies: 150 (Stone, Ideas, Food) 
1’s x 30 each, 5’s x 20 each
CONTENTS
Coins: 100 (Money) 
1’s x 30, 5’s x 30, 10’s x 30, 20’s x 10

6 Player Boards
Starting Player Token
105 Technology Cards (39 Starting Technologies / 66 Technology Cards)
38 Build Cards
Pillars of Civilization Symbols
Pillars of Civilization Symbols
Starting Technology Icon
Symbols

4 Empire Scoring Cards
20 Population Cards
20 Tax & Tariff Cards
9 Leader Cards
9 Wonder Tiles 
9 Wonder Board Tiles 
Unrest Effect
Cost
Gain

9 Golden Age Tiles
15 Civilization 
Achievement Tiles
6 Government Tiles
City and Town Board Tiles 
(12 City, 3 Port City, 6 Farm Town, and 6 Manufactory Town) 
Military Unit Tiles 
(10 Infantry, 10 Cavalry, and 2 Siege Engines) 
Population Tokens 
City
Manufactory 
Town
Farm Town
Port City
Infantry
Cavalry
28 Cache Tokens
60 Wooden Cubes 
for tracking on the Player Boards
68 Trade Goods Tokens
80 ‘X’ Trade 
Goods Tiles

THE NINE PILLARS OF CIVILIZATION
There are nine ‘Pillars’ of a Civilization. They are all important, but focusing on some over others is what 
shapes the unique texture of a Civilization…and determines success or failure.
	 SCIENCE – Developing the ability to learn how the world works, how to make habitats more 
livable, how to manufacture food and goods more efficiently, how to live together in a society, 
how to make better weapons, and most importantly how to store all of that knowledge and 
pass it on to the next generation, was critical to a successful civilization.
	 ECONOMY – Economic activity was the lifeblood of a civilization. Productive towns and a 
vibrant trade network made for a full marketplace. They also allowed the government to 
collect more taxes.
	 FOOD PRODUCTION – As a civilization grew, it had to feed its growing population. 
More efficient food production meant a larger population, more workers, and 
therefore more productivity.
	 POPULATION/ HEALTH – Large numbers of people living together in cities and towns led 
to challenges with sanitation and disease. Civilizations that did not solve these challenges 
suffered greatly.
	 BUILDING – The ability to build large projects like irrigation, city walls, roads, civic buildings, 
and even wonders, was the hallmark of successful civilizations. The great structures were 
often all that remained of ancient civilizations, and ensured their prominent place in history.
	 CULTURE – Each civilization developed its own unique culture, with its own art, 
entertainment, religion, and festivals. A vibrant culture gave the people in a civilization an 
escape from the toil of their daily lives.
	 GOVERNMENT – The ability to organize larger, and more complex societies was critical to 
the success of growing civilizations. Those with better organization and government systems 
operated more efficiently, and could deal with challenges more effectively.
	 MILITARY/ EMPIRE – Civilizations didn’t develop in a vacuum. They faced competition from 
other nearby civilizations for scarce resources and land. This competition often led to conflict. 
Even the most prosperous civilization could end up in the dustbin of history if it could not 
defend itself. Expanding control over neighboring lands was even better, bringing wealth, 
power, and security. 
	 URBANIZATION – People living in close proximity in urban environments was one of the 
most important accelerators to the development of a civilization. It sparked job specialization, 
which allowed for more productivity and technological advances. It influenced and 
accelerated the development of culture, religion, and government. However, it also led to 
challenges from disease, sanitation, and crime. The need to solve these challenges spurred 
on more advancement. The rise of cities was perhaps the most influential of all of the Pillars 
of Civilization.

There are 3 Standard Currencies in Mosaic: 
Stone
Ideas
Money
x20
x4
x2
(+5 of each for 2nd Wonder)
per population card
Food
And one Universal Currency:
Money is universal because it may be used to replace any of the Standard Currencies when paying for an action, but at a 2:1 rate. 
For example: If you are Building a Project (cost: 5 Ideas and 5 Stone), but you only have 3 Ideas and 4 Stone, you may pay an extra 
6 Money (4 to replace the Idea shortfall, and 2 to replace the Stone shortfall) and still perform the action.
Money may never be used to replace Population.
These currencies are required to pay for some actions:
Construct a Wonder: Stone & Food
Build a Project: Stone & Ideas
Increase your Population: Food
Learn a new Technology: Ideas
Recruit Military Units: Money
Build a City (or Port City): 
Stone (and Population)
THE CURRENCIES

Place the Game Board in the middle of the table, and create 
piles of the four Currency Tokens (Stone, Ideas, Food, and 
Money) near the board to act as a supply.
Select a Player Board
Each player receives a Player Board where they can track their 
population, trade goods, production of the four currencies, and 
storage of those currencies that they produce. At the start of the 
game, each player receives 5 Population. As you gain production 
(Stone, Ideas, Food, Tax, or Tariff) as a result of technology cards 
or other benefits, move the Cube to the new production value 
on that track.
Seed the Map: Fish, Trade Goods 
and Cache Tiles
Place the 10 ‘Fish’ Tiles face up, one on each Port Hex (The 
hexes with ships on them).
Place all Cache Tiles face down and mix them. Then place one 
on each 
 hex on the Game Board, face-down.
Place all Trade Goods Tiles face down and mix them. Then place 
one on each open hex on the Game Board, face-down.
Note: Only hexes with all 6 sides are valid hexes
Then turn all tiles (Trade Goods and Cache Tiles) face up, 
revealing the tiles. Remove any ‘X’ tiles and place them out of 
play in the box.
Create the Technology Deck 
and Starting Technologies
Shuffle the ‘Starting Technology’ cards (The Starting 
Technology cards are the Technology Cards with an 
‘S’ in the upper left corner), and deal 5 to 
each player.
Take the remaining Starting Technology Cards and shuffle them 
with the regular technology cards to form the Technology Deck. 
Then, cut the deck into roughly three equal parts. For 4 – 6 
players, shuffle the Technology Deck ‘Empire Scoring Card’ into 
one of the three piles and place the other two piles on top so 
that the Empire Scoring Card is in the bottom third of the deck. 
For 2 – 3 Players, place the Empire Scoring Card into the middle 
pile with one pile above and one below the middle pile so that 
the Empire Scoring Card is in the middle third of the deck. Then, 
place the Technology Deck on the correct space on the Game 
Board. Draw the top five cards and place them face up in the 
Technology Deck Offer Spaces.
Starting Tech 
Symbol
Starting 
SETUP

Create the Build Deck
Shuffle all ‘Build’ cards in the Build Deck. Then, cut the deck into 
two equal parts. Shuffle the Build Deck Empire Scoring Card into 
one of the two piles and place the other pile on top so that the 
Empire Scoring Card is in the bottom half of the deck. Then place 
the Build Deck on the correct space on the Game Board. Draw 
the top five cards and place them face up in the Build Deck 
Offer Spaces. 
Create the Population Deck
Shuffle all of the Population cards (except the Population Empire 
Scoring Card) and count out Population Cards depending on the 
number of players in the game as follows: 
This will be the Population Deck. Place any remaining 
Population Cards out of play in the game box. They will not be 
used in the game. 
Then, cut the deck in half and shuffle the Population Deck 
‘Empire Card’ into one of the halves. Once shuffled well, place 
that half beneath the other half so that the Scoring Card has 
been shuffled into the bottom half of the Population Deck. 
Place the Population Deck on the correct space on the Game 
Board. Draw the top two cards and place them face up in the 
Population Deck Offer Spaces.
Create the Tax & Tariff Deck
Take all of the Tax & Tariff cards (except the Tax & Tariff Empire 
Scoring Card) and count out a number of Tax & Tariff Cards 
depending on the number of players in the game, making sure 
that there are equal numbers of Tax Cards and Tariff Cards, with 
the combined total equaling: 
Place any remaining Tax & Tariff Cards out of play in the game 
box. They will not be used in the game. 
Then shuffle the deck, cut it in half, and then shuffle the Tax & 
Tariff Deck ‘Empire Card’ into one of the halves. Once shuffled 
well, place that half beneath the other half so that the Scoring 
Card has been shuffled into the bottom half of the Tax & Tariff 
Deck. Place the Tax & Tariff Deck on the correct space on the 
Game Board. Draw the top two cards and place them face up in 
the Tax & Tariff Deck Offer Spaces.
 
Special Setup Rules for 
2 and 3 Players
The four decks are set for 2 or 3 players as instructed above.
When playing with 3 players, one region (Hispania) will not be 
in play. 
When Playing with 2 players, two regions (Hispania and Gaul) 
will not be in play.
Regions that are not ‘in play’ do not have Trade Good and Cache 
Tiles placed on them. Once the game starts, no cities, towns, 
ports, or wonders may be built in these regions, nor 
can military units move into them, nor are they scored during 
Empire Scoring.
Place the Wonder, Golden Age, and 
Government Tiles
Place the 9 Wonder Tiles and 9 Golden Age Tiles near the Game 
Board, and the 6 Government Tiles on the Game Board in the 
space reserved for them.
Civilization Achievements Tiles
Shuffle the 15 Civilization Achievements Tiles, and randomly 
select 9 of them, placing the remaining 6 out of play. Place the 
9 selected tiles near the Game Board.
Starting Player
Select a Starting Player and place the Starting Player Token in 
front of them.
Population Deck by Player Count
2P
3P
4P
5P
6P
Tax & Tariff Deck by Player Count
2P
3P
4P
5P
6P
Deck Space
Card Offering Spaces

Select Leader
Starting with the player to the right of the Starting Player, select 
one of the available Leader Cards and pass the remaining Leader 
Cards to the right (counter-clockwise). Once all players have 
chosen a Leader Card, place the remaining Leader Cards in the 
box out of play.
Each Leader has a unique special power(s) and some starting 
benefits: currencies, population, etc. 
Note: Some Leader powers are used during the game.
Draft Starting Technologies
All players will now take their five Starting Technology Cards that 
they were dealt, select one and place it in front of them. This 
is theirs to keep. They each then pass the remaining cards to 
the player to their left (clockwise). Repeat this process until all 
players have selected their five Starting Technology Cards.
 
Place Starting City
Starting with the Starting Player and going left (clockwise) 
around the table, each player places one of their Cities on a hex 
on the board. If there is a Cache Tile in that hex, they receive the 
benefit shown on the tile (currency, population, etc.). The Cache 
Tile is then placed in the box out of play. If there is a Trade Good 
Tile in that hex, they own that Trade Good Tile and place it on 
their Player Board in the Trade Goods Area.
After placing their Starting City, each player will take the benefits 
shown on their Leader Card and their Starting Technology Cards 
that they are able to play.
Technology Cards that can be played are placed in front of the 
player face up. Those that cannot, are placed face down.
All players now have a Leader, the starting benefits from 
that Leader, a starting City on the board, and five Starting 
Technologies. The game will now begin.
The Starting Player will take the first turn each round and may 
perform ONE Action (see below), followed likewise by each 
player around the table clockwise to complete the Round. 
ACTIONS
On a player’s turn, they may perform one of the following 
eight Actions:
1)	 WORK: Produce Stone, Food, or Ideas
2)	 POPULATION: Increase Population
3)	 BUILD: Found a new City, Town, or Build a Project
4)	 WONDER: Construct a Wonder
5)	 TECHNOLOGY: Discover a new Technology
6)	 TAX & TARIFF: Tax the Population (Tax) or Merchants (Tariff) 
and receive Money
7)	 MILITARY: Recruit new Military Units and/or move 
Military Units
8)	 GOVERNMENT: Create a Government
1. WORK 
The decision of how to direct 
the work of your population will 
drive your strategy in creating a 
productive civilization. Will you 
have them quarry stone, grow 
food, or focus on researching new 
ideas? The surpluses that your 
civilization creates will dictate the 
opportunities that you are able to 
pursue later. 
Produce one of the three non-money Currencies (Ideas, Food, 
and Stone) by adding your population to your ‘Production’ of 
that Currency shown on your player board. Take the total of 
those two numbers worth of that Currency from the supply and 
place them in front of you. 
Example: Christine’s Civilization has 6 Population and has 
Stone production of 7. When Christine performs the Work 
action for Stone, she gets 13 Stone. However, she only has 
a 3 for Idea Production, so she only gets 9 Ideas when she 
performs a Work action for Ideas.
GAME ROUNDS

2. POPULATION 
Your population is your most 
important resource. It drives your 
productivity in your home city, and 
also your ability to send colonists 
to spread new cities across the 
Mediterranean. Unfortunately, 
these two goals are in conflict. 
Balancing these competing 
needs will be one of your 
primary challenges. 
Strong food production underpins population growth, 
but public health projects like Aqueducts, Public Baths, 
and Sewers, as well as technologies like medicine, are 
also critical to a large, healthy population. 
Select one of the two Population Cards available in the 
Population Offer Area on the Game Board. Pay the number 
of Food shown on the card into the supply and increase your 
Population on your Player Board by the amount shown on 
the card.
Population may either be represented by Cardboard Population 
Tokens or Population Miniatures depending on which version of 
the game that you own. 
Place the used Population Card out of play, draw a new 
Population Card from the deck, and place it in the empty space 
in the Population Offer Area.
Once all Population Cards have been drawn and the deck is 
used up, all future Population Actions gain 2 Population and cost 
15 Food.
3. BUILD 
 
All great civilizations build! 
They build Cities, roads, walls, 
aqueducts, and wondrous 
monuments. Your civilization is 
no different. You will order your 
people to quarry vast amounts of 
stone so that you can build all of 
these things, and leave a legacy 
that will be remembered down 
through the ages. 
 
Select one of the 5 Build Cards available in the Build Card Offer 
Area on the Game Board and pay the cost.
If the card is a Farm or Manufactory Town card, there is no cost. 
Place it in front of you and gain the benefits shown. Then draw a 
new card from the Build Deck, placing it in the empty space on 
the Build offer area.
If the card is a City, Port City or Project card, pay the cost, place 
it in front of you, and gain the benefits shown. The Pillars of 
Civilization Symbols on the bottom of the card are now yours as 
well. Then draw a new card from the Build Deck, placing it in the 
empty space on the Build Offer Area.
Note: It is always possible to build a City, Port, or Town for 
their usual cost without selecting a card.
 
BUILD CITY
Cost: 4 Stone and 2 Population (place 
the stone in the supply, and reduce your 
population by 2)
Benefits: Place the Card in front of you 
and gain the benefit shown on the card. 
Place one of your Cities on an available hex 
anywhere on the board. Gain the Trade Good 
Tile in that hex and place it on your Player 
Board; or gain the benefit on the Cache Tile in 
that hex and then place it out of play.
Whenever a city is built, place 5 Money from 
the supply into the Holding Area on the 
Game Board. The next player to take a Tax & 
Tariff card gets all the Money in this space.
BUILD PORT CITY
Cost: 4 Stone and 2 Population.
Benefits: Place the Card in front of you and 
gain 10 Money. Place one of your Ports on 
an available port hex (one with a ship on it), 
take the Fish Tile on the hex and place it on 
your Player Board, and add 3 to your Food Production.
Ports are a type of city that can only be built in Port hexes (those 
with ship icons). Regular Cities and towns may not be built in 
those spaces. Once built, they act as any other city for purposes 
of influence and scoring.
Whenever a port city is built, place 10 Money from the supply 
into the Holding Area on the Game Board. The next player to 
take a Tax & Tariff card gets all the Money in this space.

BUILD TOWN
There are two kinds of 
towns: Farm Towns and 
Manufactory Towns. 
Cost: None
Benefits: Gain the benefit shown on the card. Place the correct 
type of Town (Farm or Manufactory) on an available hex next to 
one of your Cities. Gain the Trade Good Tile in that hex and place 
it on your Player Board; or Gain the benefit on the Cache Tile in 
that hex and then place it out of play. 
At the end of the game, for each Manufactory Town card that 
you own, you will score 5 VP if you own all three Trade Goods 
shown on the card.
BUILD PROJECT
Cost: 5 Stone and 5 Ideas (place these 
in the supply)
Benefits: Scoring at the end of the 
game: 1 VP/ Pillars of Civilization 
Symbol that you own of that type.
CACHE TILES
Cache Tiles are a pile of goodies 
that give you an immediate 
one-time benefit when you 
build a City, Town, or Wonder 
on them. Take the commodity 
shown from the supply and 
place the tile out of play. 
Example: Paul builds a Farm Town on the ‘7 Ideas’ Cache 
Tile. He takes 7 Ideas from the supply and places the cache 
tile out of play.
TRADE GOODS TILES
Trade Goods Tiles represent 
the addition of that trade 
good to your trade network. 
They have an ongoing 
benefit. When you build a 
City, Town, or Wonder on 
a hex on the board that 
contains one, take the tile 
and place it on your Player 
Board in the Trade Goods area. If it is a duplicate to one that 
you already own, stack it on top of the same type so that each 
unique trade good occupies a circle on your player board.
Later, when you select a Tariff Card to generate Money, part of that 
calculation is Money for every unique Trade Good that you own.
Stone and Grain Tiles that have a ‘+2’ on them, add +2 to your 
Production of Stone or Food when they are acquired. Fish Tiles 
have a ‘+3’ on them, and add +3 to your Food Production when 
they are aquired. These Tiles are Trade Goods, and are placed in 
the Trade Goods area of your Player Board.
4. WONDER 
I met a traveler from an antique land 
Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone 
Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand, 
Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown, 
And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command, 
Tell that its sculptor well those passions read 
Which yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things, 
The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed: 
And on the pedestal these words appear: 
‘My name is Ozymandias, king of kings: 
Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!’ 
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay 
Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare 
The lone and level sands stretch far away. 
 — Percy Shelley
Will you be Ozymandias, or will your works stand 
the test of time? 
Epic Buildings, sometimes known as ‘Wonders’, took 
years and thousands of workers to create. They soared 
over the cities where they were built, and created 
a sense of awe in citizens and enemies alike. They 
elevated the standing of the civilization, and sometimes 
stood for millennia, a constant reminder through the 
ages of the greatness of the civilization that built them.
Select one of the available Wonder Tiles. Pay the cost and place 
the tile in front of you for scoring at the end of the game. Take 
the appropriate Wonder Token/Miniature and place it on any 
available hex in a region in which you have at least one city. Two 
of the Wonders must be built in a port hex (Colossus of Rhodes 
and The Lighthouse of Alexandria). If there are no available port 
hexes in regions where you have at least one city, then you may 
not build those Wonders at that time. One Wonder (The Great 
Pyramid) must be built in a region that has a least 3 cities, one 
of which must be yours.
The cost of Wonders goes up every time that you build one. Your 
first Wonder costs 20 Stone and 5 Food, your second Wonder 
costs 25 Stone and 10 Food, your third wonder costs 30 Stone and 
15 Food, and so on. Each time a different player builds their first 
Wonder, the cost is 20 Stone and 5 Food and increases for them.

5. TECHNOLOGY 
It is essential that your civilization 
learn new technologies. By 
putting your population to work 
researching new ideas, you will 
be able to gain new technologies 
that allow you to work more 
productively, govern more 
efficiently, and conquer 
more effectively. 
If your civilization becomes the most advanced, you will 
rise above your primitive competitors.
 
Pay 5 Ideas into the supply, and select one of the five available 
Technology Cards from the Technology Card Offer Area on the 
board. Place your new Technology card in front of you. Draw a 
new Technology card, and place it in the empty space on the 
Technology Deck Offer Area. 
If you already own the Prerequisite Pillars of Civilization 
Symbols shown in the linen box in the upper right of your new 
Technology Card, then you may place the card face up and gain 
the benefits. If you do not yet own all of the Prerequisite Pillars 
of Civilization Symbols, then place the card face down in front of 
you. You may play the card on one of your later turns once you 
have all of the Prerequisite Pillars of Civilization Symbols. 
You may also place a Technology Card face down to save its 
effect for later use.
•	 Playing it later does not count as your action for that turn
•	 All Cards must be played face up to gain the benefit, 
and stay face up once played.
•	 1x means that this event occurs one time when the 
card is played
•	 The Pillars of Civilization Symbols on a newly acquired 
Technology Card are not owned until the card is played 
face up
PILLARS OF CIVILIZATION SYMBOLS
The Pillars of Civilization Symbols shown 
on the bottom right corner of Leader, 
Technology, Build Project, Build City, and 
Build Farm Town Cards that you own and 
have played face up can be used to meet 
the Prerequisites of Technology Cards that 
you acquire later.
The Pillars of Civilization Symbols shown in 
the linen box in the upper right corner of 
Technology Cards and in the bottom left of 
Government Tiles are the Prerequisite Pillars 
of Civilization Symbols. So, the more Pillars 
of Civilization Symbols that you acquire, the 
more technologies that you can learn. 
Many ‘Starting’ Technologies do not have 
any Prerequisites.
6. TAX & TARIFF 
Having a vault full of gold gives 
your civilization great flexibility to 
pursue any action. In order to fill 
that vault, you can either tax your 
people or your merchants. You 
will need to build your population 
and your trade network to make 
it really pay. Learning new 
government technologies will also 
allow you to maximize taxation. 
But beware! Your people do not like to pay taxes. 
The more you tax them, the higher their level of unrest 
will grow. 
Select one of the two Tax & Tariff Cards available in the Tax & 
Tariff Offer Area on the Game Board. Gain the amount of Money 
from the supply shown on the card, as well as any Money in the 
holding area next to the Tax & Tariff Cards that was placed there 
when cities were built. Place the card in front of you to keep 
track of your ‘Unrest’, shown at the bottom of Tax & Tariff cards. 
Then draw a new card from the Tax & Tariff Deck, placing it in the 
empty space on the offer area.
Once all Tax & Tariff Cards have been drawn and the deck is used 
up, all future Tax Actions will generate 2 Money per Population + 
Government Symbol + your Tax Production, and all future Tariff 
Actions will generate 2 Money per unique Trade Good + your 
Cities + your Tariff Production.
UNREST
At the end of the game, you will total your unrest on all of 
your Tax & Tariff Cards, and subtract the amount of Unrest that 
you can ignore due to some Wonders, Leaders and certain 
Technology Cards. If you have any remaining Unrest, deduct that 
many VP from your score at the end of the game.
Example Card bottom
Prerequisites
Example: Ignore 3 Unrest

TAX
There are two types of Tax & Tariff 
Cards. Tax cards generate Money 
based on your population, the number 
of Government Pillars of Civilization 
Symbols that you have, and your ‘Tax’ 
Production on your player board. 
Example: Michael selects a Tax Card that says: 2 x Population 
+ 2 x Government Symbols + Tax Production. His Population 
is 6, he has 3 Government Pillars of Civilization Symbols, and 
his Tax Production is 4. Therefore, he would get 22 Money 
from that card.
TARIFF
Tariff cards generate Money based on 
the number of unique Trade Goods Tiles 
that you have, the number of cities that 
you have on the board, and your 
Tariff Production.
Example: Jack selects a Tariff Card that says: 3 x Unique 
Trade Goods + 2 x Cities + Tariff Production. Jack has 5 
unique Trade Goods, 4 Cities, and 6 Tariff Production. 
Therefore, he would get 29 Money from that card. 
Note: Unique Trade Goods are ones that are not duplicated. 
If you have 3 of the same type, you would only count that as 
1 unique Trade Good. 
MONEY
Money is the most flexible currency. It can be used to replace 
any other currency (stone, food, ideas) when paying for an 
action that requires them. However, you must pay 2 Money for 
every 1 stone, food, or idea that you are replacing.
7. MILITARY 
Some of the great civilizations 
of the Mediterranean Basin built 
powerful armies and conquered 
large empires. Your civilization 
can follow in their footsteps. But 
beware of being dragged into 
endless wars that will drain 
your resources. 
When you perform a Military Action, you may recruit new military 
units and/ or move military units that you have on the board. 
You may do either or both in the same action.
RECRUIT
Recruit new military 
units (Infantry or 
Cavalry, or if you own 
the Siege Engine 
Technology, a Siege Engine) by paying 5 Money into the supply 
for each Military Unit that you recruit, and placing those new 
military units in any region that contains one of your cities. You 
may recruit up to 2 new military units in one turn (more if you 
own the General Leader and/ or the Citizen Levy Technology).
MOVE
Move a military unit from a region to an adjacent region and pay 
1 Money. You may move one, some, or all of your military units 
once per turn, paying 1 Money for each one moved.
For clarity, the following regions are considered adjacent: Italy 
and Numidia, Italy and Greece, Hispania and Numidia, Numidia 
and Egypt. Greece is NOT adjacent to Egypt.
PLACEMENT AND INFLUENCE
Military units exist in a region, but do not occupy hexes, and so 
cannot block the placement of new cities, towns, or Wonders. 
Place them in unused areas of a region, or near the region to 
show where they are located.
Military Units each count as 1 point of ‘Influence’ in a region for 
purposes of majority during Empire Scoring (see below). With 
certain technologies, they may count for more, or be able to 
eliminate other military units.
Infantry
Cavalry

8. GOVERNMENT 
As civilizations got more 
complex, so did the necessity 
for more complex governments. 
Civilizations that were better 
organized and managed had a 
distinct advantage over those 
who weren’t. 
Select one of the available Government Tiles from the board. 
Pay the cost and place the tile in front of you. There are six 
‘Government’ Tiles (Tyranny, City State, Monarchy, Oligarchy, 
Theocracy, and Republic). You may purchase a Government 
Tile with Ideas as long as you also have the Required Symbols 
shown on the Tile.
You may only have one Government at a time. If you purchase 
a new Government while already owning a Government, replace 
the old Government tile onto the Game Board before taking the 
new tile. 
If you own a Government, you may clear one offer (Build, 
Population, Technology, or Tax & Tariff), taking the cards in the 
offer and placing them on the bottom of the deck, and replacing 
them in the offer with new cards from the top of the deck. You 
may use this power as a free action on your turn, once per game 
per Government tile. Once used, flip your government tile over 
so that the arrow in the upper right corner is face down. 
Tyranny: During Empire Scoring, you will score VP/Region where 
you have a Majority of Influence. 
2-3 Players: 2VP/ Region; 4+ Players: 3VP/ Region
 Cost: 5 Ideas
Theocracy: During Empire Scoring, you will score 2 VP for each 
Region that contains at least one of your Cities. 
City State: During Empire Scoring, you will score 1 VP/ City that 
you own in a single region of your choice. 
Monarchy: As long as you are a Monarchy, you gain +5 
production of Food and Stone. During Empire Scoring, you will 
score 3 VP/ Wonder that you own. 
Oligarchy: As long as you are an Oligarchy, you gain +5 Tax 
and Tariff Production. During Empire Scoring, you will score VP/ 
Golden Age and Civilization Achievement.
2-3 Players: 1VP/ Tile; 4+ Players: 2VP/ Tile
Republic: You may look at the top card in any Deck before 
taking your Action. You may select the card that you looked at, or 
replace it on the deck and select another card from that Offering. 
During Empire Scoring, you will score 1 VP/ 2 Population
 Cost: 20 Ideas
On your turn, if you have met the requirements of a Golden 
Age Tile (6 of the particular Pillars of Civilization Symbol) or 
Civilization Achievement Tile (as shown on the tile), you may 
claim it by taking the tile and placing it in front of you. You gain 
any benefits shown on the tile immediately, and the victory 
points (VP) at the end of the game. 
This does not count as your action for the turn. If you meet the 
requirements of multiple Golden Ages/ Civilization Achievements 
on the same turn, there is no limit to the number that you 
may claim.
GOLDEN AGE & CIVILIZATION 
ACHIEVEMENT TILES

When an Empire Scoring Card is revealed from any one of the 
four decks, Empire Scoring will occur. First, however, the player 
that revealed the card finishes their action. 
EMPIRE SCORING
Players will score points for each Region on the Board that is 
in play. Empire Scoring allows the two players with the most 
‘Influence’ in a region to score points for that region. Most 
Influence is determined by counting 2 Influence points for each 
Wonder and City that you own in that region, and 1 Influence 
point for each town and military unit that you own in that region 
(plus any bonus points or adjustments from technologies). 
The player with the second most Influence points in a region will 
score 2 Victory Points. The player with the most Influence points 
in a region will score 3 Victory Points plus 1 VP/ City and Wonder 
in that region (regardless of who owns them). In the case of a 
tie for most influence, all tied players receive the full amount 
of Victory Points for that region. In the case of a tie for second 
place, however, the tied players get nothing.
NOTE: Certain Tiles/ Cards award a benefit for ‘controlling’ 
a certain number of regions. A region that has two or more 
players tied for the most influence is not ‘controlled’ by any 
of them. Control exists only when a single player has the 
most influence.
GOVERNMENTS AND EMPIRE SCORING 
Government tiles also allow you to score points during 
each Empire Scoring Round.
EMPIRE SCORING CARDS
Example 2: The next scoring round comes around quickly, and everything is the same, except now Ethan has built a Siege 
Engine in Hispania, which negates the influence of his opponents’ cities. Therefore, Jackie has 4 influence, Ethan has 6 
influence (+1 for the Siege Engine), and Christine has 2 influence. Ethan will now get the 10 VP and Jackie will get 2 VP.
Example 1: Jackie, Ethan, and Christine all have a presence in Hispania when it is scored. 
Jackie has three cities, 2 Infantry, and the ‘Formations’ Technology Card. Her influence in Hispania is 10. 
Ethan has one city, one farm town, and 2 Cavalry. His influence in Hispania is 5. 
Christine has two cities, a Wonder, and no military units. Her influence is 6. 
Jackie has the majority of influence and so scores 3 VP plus 1 VP per city and Wonder in Hispania for a total of 10 VP. 
Christine has the second most influence, and so will score 2 VP.

Play continues around the table until EITHER:
1)	 The third Empire Scoring Card is revealed, or
2)	 2 of 3 of the following tiles have all been taken by 
the players:
	
Wonders
	
Civilization Achievements
	
Golden Ages
When either occurs, perform Empire Scoring, then finish the 
current Round up to but not including the starting player, and 
then one more full Round. (Note: The last player in every game 
is the player to the right of the ‘Starting Player’ who went first at 
the beginning of the game.)
NOTE: There may never be more than 3 Empire Scoring 
Events, even if another Empire Scoring Card is revealed after 
the third Empire Scoring Round.
END GAME SCORING
You have already accumulated Victory Points (VP) in each of the 
three Empire Scoring Rounds, and for certain Technology cards.
In addition, you will also get VP (Victory Points) as follows:
•	 CITIES and TOWNS: Every City that you have on the board = 
2 VP, and every Town that you have on the board = 1 VP
•	 WONDERS: Victory Points shown on the Wonder Tiles that 
you own
•	 GOLDEN AGE and CIVILIZATION ACHIEVEMENT TILES: 
Victory Points shown on the tiles that you own
•	 PROJECT CARDS: Victory Points = the number of Pillars of 
Civilization Symbols that you own of the type shown on the 
Project Card
•	 TECHNOLOGY CARDS: Victory Points as shown on the 
Technology Cards that you have played with the 
 icon on 
the bottom left.
•	 MANUFACTORY TOWN CARDS: Each Manufactory Town card 
has three trade goods shown on the bottom of the card. If 
you have all three of those trade goods on your player board, 
you will score 5 VP. If you have two identical Manufactory 
Towns, they will both score.
•	 UNREST: Subtract the number of Net Unrest (Unrest on your 
Tax and Tariff cards reduced by what you can ignore due to 
Wonders, Leaders, and Technology Cards)
The player with the most Victory Points at the end of the game 
is the winner. In the case of a tie, the tied player with the most 
Wonders is the winner. If there is still a tie, the tied player with 
the most Money is the winner.
Game Design: Glenn Drover
Graphic Design: Jacoby O’Connor
Cover Artwork: Annie Stegg Gerard
Map/ Board Artwork: Jared Blando
3-D Sculpting: Bryce Cook
Game Artwork: Grzegorz Pedrycz, Jessica Riola, 
Hendrik Noack, & Erica Rossi
Art Direction & Concept: Glenn Drover
Special Thanks to Michael and Paul Koenig
Playtesters: Jack Provenzale, Dan Vujovic, Paul Koenig, 
Michael Koenig, John Brust, Bill Hupp, David Rutter, 
Ethan Drover, Christine Drover, Jacoby O’Connor, Josh Kaplan, 
Lynn Kaplan, Matt Kirchner, Sean Brown, Simon Mounsey, 
The Liberty Gaming Group.
GAME END
CREDITS

APPENDIX 1: WONDERS
Colosseum of Rome
4 VP/ Region where you have a 
Majority of Influence
 -4 Unrest
Hanging Gardens
3 VP/ Adjacent City
 -3 Unrest
Stonehenge
1 VP/ 2 Population
Colossus of Rhodes
2 VP/ City in that Region
Must be Built in a Port Hex
Great Library
5 VP
Gain 2 Identical Pillars of Civilization Symbols of your Choice
Lighthouse of Alexandria
1 VP/ Unique Trade Good Tile
Must be Built in a Port Hex
Temple of Artemis
1 VP/ Military Unit in that Region
All Players’ Military Units
Great Pyramid
12 VP
May only be built in a region with 3 or more cities
Sphinx
4 VP/ Wonder in that Region
APPENDIX 2: GOLDEN AGES
Golden Age of Medicine
 x6 Population
Gain 2 Population & 6 VP
Golden Age of Architecture
 x6 Build
+3 Stone Production & 6 VP
Golden Age of Art
 x6 Culture
Gain 10 of any Currency & 6 VP
Golden Age of Kings
 x6 Government
+3 Tax Production & 6 VP
Golden Age of Public Games
 x6 Food
+3 Food Production & 6 VP
Golden Age of City States
 x6 Urbanization
1 Free City & 6 VP
Golden Age of Science
 x6 Science
+3 Idea Production & 6 VP
Golden Age of Trade
 x6 Economic
+3 Tariff Production & 6 VP
Golden Age of Heroes
 x6 Military
Gain 2 Military Units (Inf or Cav) & 6 VP
APPENDIX 3: CIVILIZATION ACHIEVEMENTS
Populous Civilization
12 Population
Great Builder Civilization
5 Projects and/or 
Wonders Total
Seafaring Civilization
3 Port Cities
Imperial Civilization
2-3 Players: Control 
4 Regions; 4+ Players: 
Control 3 Regions
Scholarly Civilization
15 Idea Production
Urban Civilization
5 Cities
Militaristic Civilization
6 Military Units
APPENDIx
Well-Governed Civilization
12 Tax Production
Merchant Civilization
7 Unique Trade Goods
Wealthy Civilization
60 Money
Diverse Civilization
All 9 Unique Pillar 
Symbols
Farming Civilization
15 Food Production
Masonic Civilization
15 Stone Production
Trading Civilization
12 Tariff Production
Scientific Civilization
15 Technology Cards

APPENDIX 4: LEADER CARDS
Magistrate
+2 Food, Stone, & Tax Production; Convert 1 Population into 20 of Any 
Currency (on your turn) (1x)
Start: 5 Food, 10 Stone, +1 Population
Engineer
+5 Stone Production, +3 Idea Production; Gain +1 Stone Production 
each time you Build a City, Port, or Manufactory Town
Start: 10 Stone, 10 Money
General
+10 Tax Production; May Recruit up to 3 Military Units rather than 2; 
Eliminate one Military Unit in a single region containing your Infantry 
or Cavalry before each Empire Scoring
Start: 20 Money, 1 Infantry Unit, 
+1 Population
Scribe
+5 to any Production; One Extra Action on your first turn and two 
Extra Actions at the End of the Game
Start: 10 Food, 5 Ideas
Artist
+5 Idea Production; -3 Unrest; +10 Money Whenever a Wonder 
is Built by any player; Gain +1 VP/ Culture Symbol at the end 
of the game
Start: 15 Money, 5 Ideas
Priestess
+6 Tax Production & +3 Food Production; -3 Unrest; May change 
ownership of a city owned by an opponent who has 4 or more cities 
(on your turn) (1x)
Start: 15 Money, 5 Food
Philosopher
+8 Idea Production; +3 Any other single Production
Start: 1 Free Random Technology Card 
from the Deck, 10 Ideas, 10 Money
Farmer
+5 Food Production; Add 1 Population to each Population 
Card you take
Start: 10 Food, 10 Money, 1 Farm Town
Merchant
+5 Tariff Production; Gain 2 Money/ Unique Trade Good Tile when 
Playing a Tax Card
Start: 30 Money, 1 Manufactory Town
APPENDIX 5: BUILD CARDS
Farm Town
 and +1 Food Production; 
Manufactory Town
 and +1 Tariff Production; 5 VP at the end of the game for 
having all three Trade Goods shown
Port City
Gain 10 
 
Architectural City
 
Capital City
Clear any Offering Track, placing those cards on the bottom of the deck & 
Refill offer
 
 
Populous City
Gain 1 Population
 
Cultural City
-3 Unrest
 
Merchant City
+3 Tariff Production
 
Research City
 
Farming City
 
Garrison City
Gain 1 Military Unit (In Region where City is placed)
 
Project: City Walls
Project: Aqueduct
Project: Granaries

Project: Quarries
Project: Public Baths
Project: Roads
Project: Civic Center
Project: Hospital
Project: Forum
APPENDIX 5: TECHNOLOGY CARDS
NOTE: Whenever a card calls for a benefit ‘per something’, that something must be owned by you, unless otherwise stated. 
For Example: ‘State Organized Labor: +1 Stone Production/ Population when played’. This refers to YOUR Population.
STARTING TECHNOLOGIES
Agricultural 
Settlement
 
 
Agriculture
 
Alphabet
Arch
Gain 1 Population; +2 Idea Production 
Architecture
Gain 1 Population; +1 Stone Production 
 
Art
Bows
Gain 2 Cavalry Units and then Eliminate 1 Enemy Military Unit where you have a 
Cavalry Unit. May be placed in any region.
Bronze
Gain 3 Infantry Units. May be placed in any region. Gain 1 Bronze Trade Good 
from the Board
 
Cartography
Take any Trade Goods or Cache Tile from a Hex on the Board, Gain 5 Money 
 
Citizen Levy
May Recruit One Extra Military Unit when Recruiting 
 
City State
+3 Tax Production; 2 VP 
 
Clay Bricks
+2 Stone Production; Gain 1 Population 
 
Construction
At the end of the game, score VPs equal to your highest scoring Project
 
Craft 
Settlement
Gain 10 Money 
 
 
Craftsmanship
Gain one ‘Wild’ Trade Good (Can be used as any Trade Good) 
 
Dance
Dietary Rules
Gain 1 Population; +1 Food Production 
 
 
Drama
Exploration
Place 1 Free Infantry Unit and a Farm Town in a Region that does not contain one of 
your Cities
 
Fishing
+3 Food Production; Gain 1 Fish Trade Good from the Board 
 
History
 and +2 VP/ Civilization Achievement at the end of the game 
 

Irrigation
+2 Food Production/ 
 
Legal Code
Gain 3 of any single Production Bonus 
 
Magistrates
Gain 3 of any single Production Bonus 
 
Music
Numeration
Oral Tradition
Philosophy
 
Poetry
Pottery
+2 Food Production; +3 Tariff Production 
 
 
Quarry
+3 Stone Production 
 
 
Royal House
+3 Tax Production; Gain 10 Money, 2 VP 
Seeds
Spears
Gain 2 Infantry Units and then Eliminate 1 Enemy Military Unit in a region containing 
your Infantry Unit. May be placed in any region.
Tiles
+2 VP/ Wonder at the end of the game; +2 Stone Production
 
Trade Routes
+3 Tariff Production; Gain 10 Money 
Villages
Gain 1 Population; +1 Food Production 
 
Wheel
+2 Tariff Production; +2 Stone Production 
 
 
Writing
+1 Idea Production/ 
 
 
TECHNOLOGIES
Animal 
Domestication
+3 Food Production; Gain 1 Cavalry Unit 
 
Armor
Your Military Units may not be Eliminated. 
 
Astronomy
+3 Idea Production; Gain one Trade Good Tile from the Board 
 
 
 
Bureaucracy
+3 Tax Production; Take a Bonus Work Action 
 
 
 
Calendar
+2 Food Production/ 
 when played (10 Max) 
 
 
 
Caste System
+2 Food and Stone Production; May create any Government without having the 
Required Symbols
 
 
Cavalry Tactics
Eliminate 2 Enemy Military Units where you have a Cavalry Unit. Gain 2 Influence 
in every Region where you have a Cavalry Unit during Empire Scoring.
 
Cement
+2 VP/ Project at the end of the game; +3 Stone Production
 
 
Census
+3 Tax Production; Gain 1 Population
 
Chemistry
 
 
Cisterns/ Wells

Cities
Gain a Free City 
Citizenship
+1 VP/ Population when played (Max 10)
 
 
 
Colony
Add a Free City in a Region where you have no Cities
 
Composite Bow Gain 2 Cavalry Units and then Eliminate 2 Enemy Military Units where you have a 
Cavalry Unit. May be placed in any region.
 
 
Crop Rotation
Gain 5 Food every time you produce Stone or Ideas 
 
Currency/ 
Coinage
+3 Tariff Production; Gain 10 Money
 
 
Customs House +5 Tariff Production/ Port City that you own when played
Diplomats
Move all Military Units owned by a single Opponent out of a single Region (to an 
adjacent region of your choice) Immediately Prior to Empire Scoring (1x). 
Dynasty
Early Sciences
+4 Idea Production; +1 VP/ Technology Card when played (10 Max) 
 
 
Empires
+1 VP/ City that you own at the end of the game
 
Engineering
+3 Stone Production; Gain a Free Town
 
 
 
 
Fermenting
 
Fertilizers
+3 Food Production; Gain Food = Your Current Food Production x2
 
 
Festivals
Flood 
Agriculture
+2 Food Production; Your Next Population Card is Doubled 
 
 
 
Food 
Preservation
Gain 2 Military Units (Inf or Cav) and 5 Food and 1 Population 
 
 
 
Formations
Eliminate 2 Enemy Military Units where you have an Infantry Unit. Gain 2 Influence 
in every Region where you have an Infantry Unit during Empire Scoring. 
 
Harbor
+2 Tariff Production, +2 Food Production
 
 
 
Horsemanship
Gain 2 Cavalry Units and then Eliminate 1 Enemy Military Unit where you have a 
Cavalry Unit. May be placed in any region; Your Cavalry units may Move 2 Regions 
for the rest of the game.
 
Iron
+3 Stone Production; and Eliminate 2 Enemy Military Units in a region containing 
your Infantry or Cavalry Unit.
 
 
Lighthouse
Gain 1 Trade Good Tile from the board/ Port City that you 
own when played (Max 3)
 
Literature
- 5 Unrest, 2 VP
 
Loyalty
Other players may not Build a City for the rest of the game in one Region that you 
select where you currently have a Majority Influence
Luxuries
 
Machines
+2 Idea, Food, and Stone Production
 
 
 
Manufacturing
Gain 10 Money/ Manufactory Town that you own when played
 
Masonry
Add a Free City Adjacent to one of your Cities
 
 
Mathematics
+3 Idea Production; Take a Bonus Action
 
 
 
 
Medicine
 
 
Mercantilism
Gain 5 Money/ Trade Good when played

Merchants
Gain 5 Money from the supply every time a City is Built by any player; 10 for a Port
 
Metallurgy
Gain 5 Stone every time you produce Food or Ideas. Gain 1 Military Unit.
 
 
Migration
Lose 1 Population, Add a Free City in a Region Adjacent to one Containing one of 
your Cities
Military 
Organization
Gain 1 Military Unit/ 
 
 
Mining
+3 Stone Production, +2 Tax Production
 
 
Monuments
Plant 
Domestication
+3 Food Production; Gain a Farm Town 
 
 
Plowshare
+2 Food Production/ Farm Town you own
 
Plumbing
 
 
Public Games
-1 Unrest/ 
 
 
Raiders
Gain 5 Stone, Food, or Money from the supply for each Military Unit that you have 
on the board when played. 
Religion
+3 Tax Production; -1 Unrest/ 
 
 
Sailing
+2 Food Production, +2 Tariff Production 
 
 
Schools of 
Thought
Can convert Production from one type of Currency to any other when played. 
For Example: You could reduce your stone production by 4 and increase your idea 
production by 4.
 
Scientific 
Method
+3 Idea Production, And Clear the Technology Offer 
Note: Place the Cards on the Bottom of the Deck, and Replace them with new Cards 
from the top
 
Sewers
+1 Population/ City that you own when played (Max 5)
 
 
 
You may Purchase Siege Engine Units (Max 2). Siege Engines Negate Opponent 
City Influence when Calculating majority Influence During Empire Scoring.
Specialization
+2 on all Five Production Bonuses
 
 
State 
Organized 
Labor
+1 Stone Production/ Population when played (Max 10)
 
 
Stone Cutting
+3 Stone Production; Gain 10 Stone
 
Taxation
+4 Tax Production
 
 
Textiles
Gain 15 Money; Gain a Cloth Trade Good from the Board
 
 
Vineyard
Gain 10 Money/ Farm Town when Played 
Weights & 
Measures
 

OBJECTIVES
There are several objectives that you will be vying for while 
playing Mosaic:
1)	 Build your Production Engine via Technology (Ideas, Stone, 
Food, Tax, and Tariff)
2)	 Increase your Population
3)	 Dominate Regions with Cities, Towns, Wonders, 
and Military Units
4)	 Gain a Government Tile
5)	 Build Projects
6)	 Build Wonders
7)	 Claim Civilization Achievements by being the first to achieve 
the goal on the tile
8)	 Claim Golden Ages by being the first to accumulate 6 of 
each Pillar of Civilization Symbol
The first two objectives (1 & 2 above) are important so that you 
can efficiently produce the ‘currencies’ in the game. You’ll need 
currencies to perform your actions in a timely fashion. There 
is nothing more frustrating than not being able to perform the 
action that you badly want. Work, Population, and Tax/ Tariff 
actions are essential, but do not gain you points. Therefore, 
you will want to do these actions as few times as possible. Far 
better to build your engine before using it than performing many 
inefficient production actions. 
The second pair of objectives (3 & 4 above) allow you to score 
during the Empire Scoring Rounds. These points can really add 
up. However, your opponents can directly challenge your control 
of regions. This can lead to costly struggles for territory in which 
you end up investing many actions that do not pay off as well as 
you had hoped. The key is to avoid spreading yourself too thin. 
However, if you choose to pursue an expansionist strategy, make 
sure that you support your efforts with Military and Economic 
Technologies. You will also need stone and food production to 
support city building. 
The third pair of objectives (5 & 6) generate Victory Points. They 
require good stone output, as well as ideas and food. Projects 
can generate a lot of points when combined with a strategy 
where you are grabbing a lot of Technology cards. Wonders not 
only score victory points on their own, but help in dominating 
regions.
The fourth pair of objectives (7 & 8) can generate quite a 
few victory points at the end of the game. And like regional 
domination, these are zero sum: the ones you get are ones that 
your opponents DON’T get. The challenge is that the other 
players are also vying for these simultaneously. The pressure to 
get there first while not neglecting the other priorities is one of 
the main tensions in the game. A Golden Ages strategy dovetails 
nicely with a focus on grabbing Technology cards. Civilization 
Achievements are gained whenever you reach a milestone 
before the other players. Since the mix of these is different every 
game, you’ll want to pay close attention to which ones are in the 
game each time, and to make a plan for which ones lie along 
the strategic pathways along which you will be travelling anyway.
STRATEGIES
There are several strategies that our playtesters have 
developed after many, many play sessions. They revolve around 
combinations of Leaders, Governments, Wonders, Technology 
card types, Build card types, Currencies, and Region 
Domination focuses.
THE TECHNOLOGIST
Research technologies, secure synergistic tiles and cards
Leaders: Philosopher, Scribe
Government: City State
Wonders: Colossus of Rhodes, Hanging Gardens, Great Library
Technology Card Types: Idea Production, Those with many Pillar 
Symbols to complete Golden Ages and gain points from Projects
Build Cards: Projects
Golden Ages: Science, Kings
Civ Achievements: Scholarly, Diverse, Scientific
Currencies: Ideas, Money
Regional Domination Focus: One Region
THE BUILDER
Build many cities, ports, and wonders
Leaders: Engineer, Magistrate
Government: Monarchy
Wonders: Great Pyramid, Sphinx
Technology Card Types: Stone and Food Production
Build Cards: City, Port, Farm Towns
Golden Ages: Architecture, Medicine, Public Games
Civ Achievements: Great Builder, Urban, Farming, Masonic
Currencies: Stone, Food
Regional Domination Focus: Several
STRATEGY SUGGESTIONS

THE MERCHANT
Secure trade goods, make money, build ports and 
manufactory towns
Leaders: Merchant, Scribe
Government: Oligarchy
Wonders: Lighthouse of Alexandria
Technology Card Types: Tax & Tariff Production, Port-Related
Build Cards: Ports, Manufactory Towns
Golden Ages: Trade, Art
Civ Achievements: Merchant, Seafaring, Wealthy, Trading, Well-
Governed, Urban
Currencies: Money
Regional Domination Focus: Spread, Build on Trade Goods to 
Maximize Scoring for Manufactory Towns
THE EFFICIENT PRODUCER
Build your population and production engine
Leaders: Farmer, Engineer, Magistrate
Government: Republic
Wonders: Stonehenge, Great Pyramid, Sphinx
Technology Card Types: Stone and Food Production, Population 
Increase
Build Cards: Towns, Projects
Golden Ages: Medicine, Public Games
Civ Achievements: Populous, Great Builder, Farming, Masonic
Currencies: Food, Stone
Regional Domination Focus: Few Cities with Towns placed on 
+2 Food and Stone. Build Population.
THE CULTURIST
Gather as many culture symbols as possible, and 
build wonders
Leaders: Artist
Government: Monarchy, Oligarchy
Wonders: Great Pyramid, Sphinx
Technology Card Types: Culture, Stone and Idea Production
Build Cards: Cities, Farm Towns
Golden Ages: Art, Architecture
Civ Achievements: Great Builder, Masonic, Farming
Currencies: Stone, Food, Ideas
Regional Domination Focus: Few; Build Wonders
THE CONQUEROR
Control as many regions as possible
Leaders: General, Priestess
Government: Tyranny
Wonders: Colosseum of Rome, Temple of Artemis
Technology Card Types: Military, Tax & Tariff
Build Cards: Cities, Manufactory Towns
Golden Ages: Heroes, Trade
Civ Achievements: Militaristic, Imperial, Well-Governed, Trading
Currencies: Money
Regional Domination Focus: The Majority

On a player’s turn, they may perform 
one of the following eight Actions:
1)	 WORK: Produce Stone, Food, or Ideas
2)	 POPULATION: Increase Population
3)	 BUILD: Found a new City, Town, or 
Build a Great Project 
4)	 WONDER: Construct a Wonder
5)	 TECHNOLOGY: Discover a new Technology
6)	 TAX & TARIFF: Tax the Population (Tax) or 
Merchants (Tariff) and receive Money
7)	 MILITARY: Recruit new Military Units or 
move existing Units
8)	 GOVERNMENT: Create a Government