60min
12+
3-5

contents
During an expedition to Antarctica, scientists
have exposed the vestiges of an ancient city of gigantic proportions
behind a chain of -to all appearances- impassable mountains.
1931
-
-
1 Mountain board
36 Encounter tiles
15 Injury cards
66 Madness cards (including 6 blank ones)
48 Equipment cards
11 Relic cards
11 Relic tokens
Specimen
Ruin
Knowledge
Specimen
Ruin
Knowledge
5 double-sided Player Boards
Add 2 Injuries
to the discard pile.
Discard as many cards from the 
Equipment deck as the difference 
between the total value of cards played 
(of the required equipment type) and 
the Challenge Value. If you don’t have 
enough cards, return a Leadership 
token to the box instead.
d
e 
Discard 2 Leadership tokens.
If there are not enough 
Leadership tokens,
return a Leadership token
to the box instead.
9-11
8-9
11-13 10 OR 12
13 10-12
13 OR 15
12-14 9-11
16-18 15 OR 17
1 Sled board
6 Leadership tokens
1 Airplane 
figurine
1 Sand Timer 
(30 seconds)
1 Penalty die
DANFORTH
PROFESSOR ATWOOD
DOROTHY H. PABODIE
MARGARET DYER
PROFESSOR LAKE
x12
Above all, be careful not to lose your health
or your sanity!
You must work together and communicate well to successfully scale this
mountain, find fascinating relics, then escape from this accursed place.

OVERVIEW AND GOAL OF THE GAME
GAME ELEMENTS
T 
he goal of your expedition is to recover the relics hidden on 
the mountain. What you do not yet know is that it also hides 
terrible secrets that are better left untouched.
As members of this strange expedition, you will face challenges whose 
horror you cannot fully comprehend. By using the equipment on your 
cards, you must work together to overcome these horrifying challenges. 
Do your best, since time matters! Each challenge overcome makes 
the road to victory easier, but if—despite your best efforts—you do not 
succeed, you will suffer injuries or even lose your sanity. The closer 
you get to the summit, the greater your madness will become. And as 
madness seizes each member of your team, it becomes that much harder 
to communicate with each other, as you head towards 
your inevitable demise…
If, by chance, you manage to escape, you will need 
to assess your team. At the end of the game, 
if you have more Relic cards (Specimen, Ruin, 
Knowledge) than Injuries, your expedition was 
a success and you win the game. If the opposite 
is true, the expedition turned out to be much too 
costly for the few discoveries made and you lose 
the game. But that is nothing compared to losing 
all hope of surviving in this hostile terrain…
 MOUNTAIN BOARD
The game board represents the mountain that 
you are trying to scale, starting from the coast and 
ultimately escaping by airplane off the summit.
Leadership token 
discard area
Equipment Deck
Equipment discard
Level 3 Madness deck
Level 2 Madness deck
Level 1 Madness deck
Coast Tiles
Mountain Tiles
Challenge Values
Injury Deck
Arcane Equipment Deck
Relic Deck
Edge of 
Madness tile
Escape Tiles
Sand timer space
City 
Tiles
Add 2 Injuries
to the discard pile.
Discard as many cards from the 
Equipment deck as the difference 
between the total value of cards played 
(of the required equipment type) and 
the Challenge Value. If you don’t have 
enough cards, return a Leadership 
token to the box instead.
d
e 
Discard 2 Leadership tokens.
If there are not enough 
Leadership tokens,
return a Leadership token
to the box instead.
9-11
8-9
11-13 10 OR 12
13 10-12
13 OR 15
12-14 9-11
16-18 15 OR 17

 PLAYER BOARD
The double-sided Player 
Boards represent the 
characters you can play 
during your expedition on the 
mountain. A player aid is also 
on each Player Board.
 SLED BOARD
The Sled Board goes in front of 
the Leader for the current turn. 
Two spaces are drawn on this 
board: the round space is for 
the Leadership tokens available, 
and the rectangular space is for 
Equipment cards played during the Encounter Phase.
 AIRPLANE FIGURINE
The Airplane indicates which part of the mountain 
you are exploring on the current turn. You move it 
from place to place, following the path you wish to 
take on your expedition.
 RELIC TOKENS
These tokens remind you that the mountain is cruel, and reduce your 
abilities as a Leader bit by bit when they cover parts of your Player Board.
 PENALTY DIE
The Penalty Die, as its name suggests, determines what Penalties you suffer 
during the game. There are 3 faces:
	
Accident	
Confusion	
Loss of Confidence 
Suffice it to say that rolling the die is never a good thing!
 LEADERSHIP TOKENS
These tokens represent the Leader’s ability to 
motivate the group. They can be used in different 
ways to facilitate your ascent. You may only use them 
when they are on the Sled Board. After you use a token, place it in the 
Leadership token discard area. Sometimes you will need to return a 
Leadership token to the box, out of play. 
You should use these sparingly: If you have to return the last token to the 
box, the expedition loses all hope of surviving in the hostile terrain and 
you lose the game as Madness defeats you!
PROFESSOR LAKE
 ENCOUNTER TILES
The Encounter tiles show the places you can explore during the game. 
There are 4 different regions of increasing hostility: Coast, Mountain, City, 
and Edge of Madness.
Each tile shows the following information:
 Name of the tile
 Excerpt from the book that inspired this game that relates to the tile
 Challenge Values you must overcome:
- Type of equipment required
- Value of equipment required (exact or range)
 Reward if you succeed
There are also Escape tiles, which represent the last places you explore 
while trying to escape from the Mountain. These tiles have the same 
elements as the other Encounter tiles, except they do not always have a 
Reward if you succeed.
NOTHING BUT THE WIND
The wind made sounds like an evil 
musical piping over a wide range.
Ruin 3
13-15
STRANGE CHATTERING
It was, indeed, repeated, and seemed at 
times to come from more than one throat.
Equipment Symbols
(4 different)
Reward
Excerpt
Number or range required 
to overcome the Tools 
challenge
Knowledge token
Ruin token
Specimen token

 RELIC CARDS
Relic cards are the reason for your expedition: they can win you 
the game. Relics come in three categories: Specimen, Ruin, and 
Knowledge. Every Relic card shows:
 An action you must take immediately when you acquire the card
 And a constraint that will affect you for the rest of the game. 
When you gain a Relic card, leave it face up in front of you. 
It is not part of your hand.
 INJURY CARDS
Injury cards represent your physical condition. The 
further the Expedition progresses, the more Injury 
cards you will receive, and the more you will be 
handicapped. Take care not to receive too many 
Injuries or the Mountain will get the better of you!
 MADNESS CARDS
These cards represent the degradation of your 
sanity, and describe more and more challenging 
madnesses that deteriorate your ability to 
communicate. They each show:
 A level,
 A name,
 A description of the Madness.
Always leave your Madness card(s) face down 
near your Player Board. They are not part of your 
hand. Only you can know what they say. Do not 
show them to other players!
Madness cards affect your ability to communicate 
during the Encounter Phase (while the Sand 
Timer is running) by imposing certain restrictions 
on you. You may never discuss your Madness 
with the other players: When the Sand Timer is 
not running, you must act as though you do not 
recall acting strangely. Other players can only 
speculate about the Madness that controls you.
Value
Immediate 
Action
Type of Relic
Constraint
Type of 
Excerpt
 EQUIPMENT CARDS
Equipment cards represent the various gear available to you while 
scaling the mountain:
Each Equipment card has a value from 2 to 6. There are ten cards of each 
type of Equipment (2 per value). They each also have a name and an 
excerpt from the book that inspired this game.
 ARCANE EQUIPMENT CARDS
These cards are used just like Equipment cards. The only difference is 
that they are of better quality, since they each have a value of 10. At 
the beginning of the game, they are stacked in their own deck. You 
must discover them during the expedition in order to add them to the 
Equipment card deck.
FUNGAL HONEY
ALIEN DEVICE
NECRONOMICON
LURKING HORROR
There may be something under 
the table. I need to check 
before playing any cards.
SELFLESS
I use “he/she" instead of “you".
TIMID
I only speak by asking questions.
Level 1
Level 3
Level 2
Level
Description of 
the Madness

SETTING UP THE GAME
Place the MOUNTAIN BOARD in the middle of the table.
Choose a PLAYER BOARD and put it in front of you, 
with whatever side you wish up.
Sort the ENCOUNTER TILES by type and place them randomly 
on the matching spaces of the board, face down.
Return the unused tiles to the box without revealing them.
Make a face-up INJURY CARD deck.
Make a face-up ARCANE EQUIPMENT CARD deck.
Make a face-up RELIC CARD deck.
Shuffle the EQUIPMENT CARDS and make a face-down deck.
Draw as many INJURY CARDS as there are players. 
Put them face up in the Equipment discard.
Sort the MADNESS CARDS by level and shuffle each stack separately 
to make three face-down decks.
Deal each player a number of EQUIPMENT CARDS 
according to the number of players: 
Keep these cards in your hand. You can look at them, but do not show them to other players. 
Put the SAND TIMER on its space.
Put the PENALTY DIE and the RELIC TOKENS near the board.
The player who most recently reached the summit of a mountain assumes the role 
of Leader for the first turn. Put the AIRPLANE and the SLED BOARD in front of them 
and put 6 LEADERSHIP TOKENS on the corresponding space of the Sled Board.
The Leader deals Madness cards to players, according to the number of players: 
x11
x7
x1
deal 5 cards each
deal 4 cards each
deal 3 cards each
deal no Madness cards
deal one Level 1 Madness card to each player except the first Leader
deal one Level 1 Madness card to each player
We had planned to cover a territory as sprawling 
as the antarctic season would allow—or beyond 
that if absolutely necessary—working essentially 
in the mountain chains and on the plateau to 
the south of the Ross Sea, regions more or less 
explored by Shackleton, Daviau Amundsen, 
Scott et Byrd.
After setting up different camps, secured 
by plane and covering distances considerable 
enough to present a geological interest, 
R’lyeh wgah’nagl fhtagn we were planning 
to expose an amount of material without 
precedent; particularly in the 
precambrian strata where a field 
crowded with specimens has just 
been uncovered.
After setting up different camps,
After setting up different camps,

PAPER
Other things were equally perplexing… 
the spatter–fringed ink blots on certain 
pieces of paper, and the evidences of curious 
alien fumbling and experimentation.
DRILLING 
APPARATUS
When shortly afterward the drill head dropped 
through the stratum into apparent vacancy, 
a wholly new and doubly intense wave of 
excitement spread among the excavators.
DOGS
Having trouble with dogs. They can’t 
endure the new specimen, and would 
probably tear it to pieces if we didn’t keep 
it at a distance from them.
DYNAMITE
A good–sized blast had laid open 
the subterrene secret…
RADIO COMPASS
Our radio compasses helped us 
through the one opaque fog 
we encountered.
RIFLES
kind of conflict, and were torn and 
mangled in fiendish and altogether 
inexplicable ways.
BINOCULARS
I studied them with a field–glass 
and took aërial photographs 
whilst Danforth drove.
CANNED GOODS
The jarringly comical heap of tin cans 
pried open in the most unlikely ways 
and at the most unlikely places.
WINTER FURS
It was composed of furs and tent cloth 
taken from Lake’s camp, and we did not 
pause to study the bizarre forms into 
which the fabrics had been slashed.

GAMEPLAY
during this Phase. If you moved the plane to a space that didn’t have 
a tile (because you were there earlier in the game), you will face the 
Challenges on the space instead. Most of the time you will be facing the 
Challenges on the tile. These Challenges will be a surprise when the tile 
is turned face up. You can decide to continue the ascent, to descend, or 
to stay on the same level, but you cannot stay on the same space. 
Proceed to the ENCOUNTER PHASE.
As the Leader, you can move the Plane onto any adjacent space, 
whether it is empty or has a tile.
14-16
TURN 
OVERVIEW
	
= Tiles accessible on the 1st turn
The “EDGE OF MADNESS” Tile
Once the expedition has reached the Edge of Madness tile, 
you can no longer descend. You must now escape by moving 
onto the next Escape tile for each of the next 3 turns. At the end of the 
turn where you moved onto the 3rd Escape tile, the expedition escapes 
from the mountain (see “The End of the Game” p.15)!
During the Movement Phase, the Leader can 
decide to discard one or more Leadership tokens. Every token 
discarded allows one player, chosen by the Leader, to ignore 
their Madness card(s) for the rest of the turn. Move any 
discarded Leadership tokens from 
the Sled Board to the Leadership 
token discard area on the board.
The game plays over several consecutive turns. 
Each turn has 5 phases:
MOVEMENT
ENCOUNTER
RESOLUTION
DRAW
REST (OPTIONAL)
During the MOVEMENT PHASE, the Leader decides which direction to 
move the expedition. Over the course of the game, you start from the 
Coast, scale the Mountain, enter the City, and reach the Edge of Madness 
before making your escape across the sky.
NOTE: On the 1st turn, you must start on any one of the Coast tiles at 
the bottom of the board (see below). The Leader puts the chosen tile 
in front of them and puts the Airplane on the now-empty space before 
proceeding to the ENCOUNTER PHASE.
You are the first Leader. You decide to begin the expedition by 
placing the Airplane on this tile.
DISCUSSION
You can make this decision collectively. Take the time 
to reflect on the best direction to take. But, even if 
everyone else disagrees, the Leader has the final say 
since they are the one who moves the Airplane.
DECISION
Once the decision is made, the Leader chooses a space adjacent to the 
one the Airplane is on. If the space where the airplane moved had a 
tile (now in front of the leader), you will face the Challenges on the tile 

The ENCOUNTER PHASE begins as soon as the Leader turns over the 
Encounter tile in front of them and ends as soon as the Sand Timer runs out.
DISCUSSION
First, turn over the Sand Timer, and, if necessary, turn over the Encounter 
tile in front of the Leader. From this moment on, all players with a 
Madness card must apply its effect and play accordingly!
The current Encounter tile or space occupied by the Airplane shows two 
or three Challenges, represented by these symbols: 
and 
CAREFUL! This Mountain is not normal. 
The higher you climb, the more you will feel 
the altitude and the lack of oxygen. Or is it 
your mind that’s playing tricks on you? 
Whatever the case, these visual hallucinations 
seem way too real to be ignored...
These symbols are always accompanied by a number or range of 
numbers, called the “Challenge Value”. This indicates the total quantity of 
equipment required to overcome the Challenge.
This tile shows 
two Challenges to 
overcome. To succeed, 
you will need a total 
of between 
10 and 12 
 
and an exact total 
of 14 
You only have the time allotted by the Sand Timer to gather the necessary 
Equipment. Use this time to discuss which Equipment you have in hand 
and are able to spend to overcome the Challenges. Your team is united, so 
you can share all of the information present on your cards without actually 
showing anyone else your cards.
There are two rules you must follow no matter what:
The text on your Madness card(s) overrules all other rules.
Most of the time, Equipment cards in your hand must remain a 
secret. 
The only time you are able to communicate anything about 
them is during the ENCOUNTER PHASE while the Sand Timer 
is running, before any cards have been played. Any discussion 
relating to cards in your hand during any other time is strictly 
forbidden.
HUNGRY WIND
Even the faint howling and piping 
of the unfelt wind in the great mountain 
passes behind us took on a wilder note 
of purposeful malignity.
Heal
EMPTY TILE SPACE
If you move onto a space without a tile, 
there is no reward to gain but you still 
have two challenges to overcome. You 
therefore still risk suffering Failures.

 ENCOUNTER PHASE (cont.)
ACTION
At any time during this Phase, any player may play Equipment 
and/or Injury cards (see Playing an Injury Card) from their hand face 
down on the Sled Board. All players must immediately cease all 
communication.
All players can continue to play cards from their hand face down on the 
Sled Board, without communicating in any way with the other players, 
until the Sand Timer runs out completely. You can play cards in the order 
of your choice, even playing multiple cards or adding cards after others 
have played.
IMPORTANT: If a player speaks while communication is forbidden, you must 
immediately roll the Penalty Die and apply its effects (see Penalty Die p. 13).
In an expedition with three players, you feel that discussions 
must end before it’s too late to act, playing 2 cards face down 
on the Sled. Everyone stops talking. Danforth adds 2 cards, 
while Dyer adds no cards. Before the Sand Timer ends, Danforth 
decides to add 1 last card.
Once the Sand Timer runs out, stay silent for a couple seconds to give 
the Leader time to decide if they will discard a Leadership token or not. 
The Leader must make this decision alone.
Danforth
Dyer
You
It’s a fact that the wind caused horrendous devastation. 
Would they all have survived it, even without the other 
mglw’nafh “thing”? I seriously doubt it.
The tempest, with its incessant bombardment of ice 
particles, must have overtaken everything our expedition 
uncovered up until this point. A plane hangar was just 
about pulverised—it seems everything was abandoned in 
a precarious state—and the rig, found on a site far from 
the drilling, was entirely ripped to shreds.
The metallic parts of the planes 
on the ground and the material 
from the 
rig were crushed and stripped. 
Two of the little tents were 
knocked over despite their 
embankments of snow.
ripped to shreds
When the Sand Time runs out, the Leader has several 
seconds to decide whether they will discard a Leadership token. 
If they decide to discard one, they take a Leadership token from 
the Sled Board and place it in the Leadership token discard.
A token discarded in this way allows you to restart the 
ENCOUNTER PHASE. Flip over the sand timer and start the 
Phase over. This means players can talk again up to the point 
when one player plays a card. The Leader can use multiple 
tokens to restart this Phase multiple times, each time making 
the decision when the timer has run out.
The effects of Leadership tokens discarded in this turn’s 
MOVEMENT PHASE remain active during the entire 
ENCOUNTER PHASE hase, even if you prolong it by 
discarding Leadership tokens.
Playing an Injury Card
Injury cards are parasitic cards: Their only purpose 
is to inefficiently fill your hand. You can, however, 
play them during the ENCOUNTER PHASE just 
like Equipment cards to get them out of your 
hand. However, they might return to a player’s 
hand if they are not healed before the REST 
PHASE.
+

The Resolution Phase begins as soon as the Sand Timer runs out. 
During this Phase, you will determine if you successfully overcame 
the challenges you faced in the previous Phase, then gain any earned 
Reward, and finally suffering any potential Failures.
OVERCOMING A CHALLENGE
The Leader reveals all of the cards played on the Sled Board and 
compares them to the Challenge Values of each Challenge:
 If the total value of the cards matching the required Equipment type 
equals (or falls within the range of) the required Challenge Value, the 
challenge was a SUCCESS. 
 If the total value of the cards matching the required Equipment type 
is above or below the required Challenge Value, the challenge was a 
FAILURE.
The Airplane is on the space 
that had the Seals tile, which 
requires 7 to 9 
 and 7 to 
You reveal the 5 cards played 
on the Sled: There is a 
Barometer 6 
Scales 3 
, Laboratory 
Equipment 4 
Pencils 2 
, and an Injury. 
You succeed in the Tools Challenge 
 , but you failed the 
Books Challenge. 
 SUCCESS
If you successfully overcome at least one 
of the Challenges on the Encounter tile, 
you gain the reward shown on the bottom-
right corner of the tile.
BINOCULARS
I studied them with a field–glass 
and took aërial photographs 
whilst Danforth drove.
Relic (Specimen/Ruin/Knowledge)
Specimen D
SEALS
Many fat seals were visible on the water, 
swimming or sprawling across large cakes 
of slowly drifting ice.
ICY CAPE
All traces of such things were now 
wholly obscured by the deep layer of ice 
and snow at this point.
Specimen B
Specimen D
FRANK H. PABODIE
There are different types of Rewards offered on Encounter tiles: 
Relic, Search, Arcane Equipment, Heal, Praise.
The Leader takes the card listed from the deck of Relic cards, and 
chooses one player (including themselves) who takes the Relic 
card and places it face up in front of them. This card is not part of 
the player’s hand, but has a direct impact on this player when 
they are the Leader.
If you receive a Relic card, you must immediately draw a 
Madness card (see “Draw a Madness Card” on p.12). Also, take 
the Relic token that matches the card you received and place it 
on your Player Board, covering the space indicated by the card. 
You cannot use a Leadership Token during this Phase for the 
rest of the game.
You can have several Relic cards in front of you. If you receive a 
Knowledge card when you already have at least one in front of you, do 
not take another Knowledge token.
You succeeded against at least one of 
the two Challenges on the Icy Cape tile, 
which rewarded your expedition with 
the Specimen B card.
The Leader takes the card from the Relic 
card deck and chooses to give it to you. 
You place it in front of you, then you 
put your Level 1 Madness card back in the box and draw a card 
from the Level 2 Madness deck which you place face down in 
front of you. Finally, you take a Specimen token, which you place 
on your Player Board covering the “RESOLUTION PHASE” in the 
Leadership Token column. See next page for the Madness cards.

If you must suffer multiple Failures, choose the consequence for the first 
Failure and apply it. Then choose the consequence for the second Failure 
and apply it. Continue in this way until you have suffered the required 
number of Failures. You can choose the order of the Challenges for which 
you must suffer a consequence.
Unlike Rewards, which you can only earn a single time per Encounter 
tile, you must suffer a Failure each time you fail a Challenge. 
DRAWING A MADNESS CARD 
The Mountain is making you 
more and more mad, endlessly 
penetrating your spirit and 
degrading your sanity. Madness 
cards affect your ability to communicate 
during the ENCOUNTER PHASE (while the 
Sand Timer is running) by imposing certain 
restrictions on you. It is very likely that one of you will have 
to draw a Madness card during a turn (whether by failing a 
Challenge or by gaining a Relic card).
 If you must draw a Madness card and you don’t have any, 
draw a Level 1 Madness.
 If you must draw a Madness card and you already have a 
Level 1 or 2 Madness, put your card back in the box and 
draw a card from the next level up.
 If you already have a Level 3 Madness, the Leader cannot 
choose you to draw a new Madness card.
If all players already have a Level 3 Madness card when one 
must be drawn, discard a Leadership token from the Sled 
Board instead. If there are no more Leadership tokens on the 
sled, put a Leadership token from the discard back in the box 
instead. If you must put your last Leadership token back in the 
box, the expedition is lost (see “The End of the Game” p. 15)!
You can never talk about your Madness with the other 
players. When the Sand Timer is not running, you must act 
as though you do not recall acting strangely. Other players 
can only speculate about the Madness that controls you.
Arcane Equipment
Search
Heal
Praise
ALIEN DEVICE
FUNGAL HONEY
 RESOLUTION PHASE (cont.)
The Search ability lets you scope out a section of the mountain before 
traveling there. The Leader chooses a face down Encounter tile. This tile 
does not have to be adjacent to the one the Airplane is on. Turn over this 
tile at the same time as the Sand Timer. You now have 30 seconds to 
memorize the information on the tile (without moving the Airplane). Once 
the Sand Timer runs out, turn the tile back face down. You cannot discard 
Leadership tokens to turn over the Sand timer and look at the tile again.
The Leader chooses an Arcane Equipment card of 
his choice from the deck of Arcane Equipment cards 
and adds it to the Equipment card discard pile.
Look in the Equipment card discard pile for an Injury card. If there is at 
least one, put it back in the Injury card deck. You can heal an Injury card 
played during this turn.
Take up to two Leadership tokens from the discard area and put them 
back on the Sled Board.
 FAILURES
After potentially gaining your reward, you must suffer any Failures you 
got this turn.
For each Challenge you failed to overcome, the Leader chooses one 
of these consequences:
One player chosen by the Leader draws a Madness card 
(see DRAWING A MADNESS CARD ).
NOTE: If all players already have a Level 3 Madness card, you 
cannot choose this consequence. You must therefore choose 12 
the Leader rolls the Penalty die.
The Leader rolls the Penalty die. 
(see ROLLING THE PENALTY DIE p. 13).

You seriously lack coordination. On the Bleak 
Coast, you supplied 11 
 and 5 
 . Both Challenges 
ended in failure.
Every player already has a Level 3 Madness. The only possible 
consequence then is to roll the die for these two Challenges. The 
Leader decides to roll the die for the 
 Challenge first.
He rolls
. He decides to discard the last Leadership token to 
reroll the die. Unfortunately, the die shows the same result! You 
must now suffer Confusion, and discard the first 3 cards from the 
Equipment deck (8-5=3).
Now he rolls the die for the other failed Challenge. He rolls
You draw 2 Injuries from the Injury deck and put them in the 
Equipment card discard.
BLEAK COAST
The frozen sea was now giving place 
to a frowning and mountainous coastline.
DYNAMITE
A good–sized blast had laid open 
the subterrene secret…
RIFLES
kind of conflict, and were torn and 
mangled in fiendish and altogether 
inexplicable ways.
COIL OF ROPE
We had a rope with us, but did not 
wish to bother with this twenty–foot 
drop unless obliged to…
WINTER FURS
It was composed of furs and tent cloth 
taken from Lake’s camp, and we did not 
pause to study the bizarre forms into 
which the fabrics had been slashed.
END OF THE RESOLUTION PHASE
 Discard all cards played 
during the ENCOUNTER PHASE.
 Set aside the Encounter tile: 
It is no longer in play.
ROLLING THE PENALTY DIE
When the Leader chooses to roll the Penalty die, you only 
get one roll. You must then apply the effect indicated by the 
symbol on the die:
Draw 2 Injury cards from the Injury card deck and 
add them to the Equipment card discard pile. If 
you must draw an Injury and the Injury card deck 
is empty, the expedition succumbs to the harsh 
terrain (see “The End of the Game” p. 15)!
Draw a number of cards from the Equipment deck 
equal to the difference between the total value of 
cards played with the required Equipment type 
and the Challenge Value number or range. If 
the total is less than the range, refer to the lower 
number. If the total is more than the range, refer to 
the higher number. Discard all of the cards drawn.
Discard 2 Leadership tokens from the Sled 
Board. If there are less than 2 Leadership tokens 
on the sled before the Loss of Confidence, 
return 1 token to the box instead. If you must 
return your last Leadership token to the box, 
the expedition collapses to infighting and strife 
(see “The End of the Game” p. 15)!
During the Resolution Phase, the Leader can decide to 
discard one or more Leadership tokens from the Sled Board 
and place them in the Leadership token discard.
Each token discarded in this way lets the Leader ignore the 
result of the Penalty Die and reroll it. He then applies this 
new result or discards another Leadership token. The Leader 
can discard a token then wait to see the new result of the die 
before discarding another token.

 REST PHASE (optional)
This is the only moment when you can breath a little in this hostile 
terrain… As the Leader, you can decide to have the expedition take 
advantage of a moment’s rest.
If you decide to do so, follow these three steps in order:
Take 1 Leadership token (either from the discard area or from the 
Sled Board).
Move any remaining Leadership tokens in the discard pile to the 
Sled Board.
Shuffle the Equipment card discard pile with the rest of the 
Equipment card deck and make a new Equipment deck that you 
put back on the board, face down.
IMPORTANT: If you only have one Leadership token remaining (either 
in the discard pile or on the Sled Board) you cannot take a Rest Phase, 
since doing so would require you to put your last Leadership token in the 
box and therefore lose the game.
 END OF PHASE
If the Airplane is now on the third Escape tile, the expedition escapes the 
Mountain (see “The End of the Game” p. 15)! Otherwise, whether you 
rested or not, the Leader passes the Sled Board to the player on their left, 
who will be the Leader for the next turn.
each player can have up to 5 cards in hand.
each player can have up to 4 cards in hand.
each player can have up to 3 cards in hand.
It didn’t seem necessary to protect the plane with an 
embankment of snow 
 for such a short time, in the 
favorable absence of strong winds at this time; we simply 
stayed awake until the landing gears were well-covered 
and the vital parts of the machine protected	
 
from the cold.
For our pedestrian excursion, we removed our heavy flying 
furs and took with us some small equipment, such as 
a pocket compass, camera, light provisions 
large books of notes and paper, geologist 
hammer and scissors, specimen bags, 
Ph’nglai rope coil for the hike, 
and powerful electric lamps 
Cthulhu naflfhlagn with 
spare batteries.
For
For
large books of notes and paper, geologist
strong winds
strong winds
cold
specimen
The Leader deals Equipment cards to every player (including themselves) 
from the Equipment deck until all players reach the hand size limit or the 
deck is empty.
If there are not enough cards in the deck for everyone to reach the hand 
size limit, the Leader chooses who receives cards.
During the Draw Phase, the Leader can decide to 
discard one or more Leadership tokens from the Sled Board 
and place them in the Leadership token discard.
Each token discarded in this way increases the hand size limit for 
all players by 1 card until the next Draw Phase. They then deal an 
extra card to everyone to reach this new limit.
If there are not enough cards in the deck for everyone to reach 
the new hand size limit, the Leader chooses who receives cards.
It is possible (and allowed) for you to exceed the hand size limit 
if you do not play Equipment cards the turn after a Leadership 
token was discarded in this way. However, you do not draw or 
receive new Equipment cards as long as you remain above the 
permitted limit.

To measure the success of your expedition, refer to the table below:
NUMBER OF RELIC CARDS 
MINUS 
NUMBER OF INJURY CARDS
RESULT
Embarrassed by the failure of the 
expedition, you are forced to resign 
your post at the University.
Less than 0
Your discoveries appear in several 
journals, but have little impact.
Between 1 and 3
Protected by tenure, 
you keep your post... barely.
Suddenly famous, you are the toast 
of academia thanks to your finds.
Between 4 and 7
You tour the world giving 
presentations of your 
remarkable finds.
Between 8 and 10
Your irrefutable proof of pre-
human civilizations has overturned 
centuries of historical thought!
THE END OF THE GAME
EXPERT VARIANT
After several successful expeditions, if entering the Mountains of 
Madness doesn’t present the same challenge as it used to for you, you 
can add this rule which will make your expeditions much more daring:
When you must draw a Madness card of the next level, do not discard 
the card you already have. During the Encounter Phase, you must apply 
the effects of all the Madness cards you have.
If any Madness cards contradict each other, refer to the higher level card.
The expedition to the Mountains of Madness can end in several ways:
 If you must return your last Leadership token to the box, you 
immediately lose the game.
“You lost all hope of survival, 
lost in this cruel vastness.”
 If you must draw an Injury card and the Injury deck is empty, you 
immediately lose the game. 
“Weakened and overwhelmed with injuries, 
the group struggles to advance. In the end, this 
inhospitable Mountain will get the better of you.”
 If you are on the third Escape tile at the end of a turn, you managed 
to escape the Mountain.
• If the expedition gathered fewer Relic cards than there are Injury 
cards in the Equipment deck, Equipment discard, and all players’ 
hands combined, you lose the game. 
“You returned alive, certainly. But at what cost? 
The few scientific discoveries are not worth the 
heavy losses you suffered.”
• If the expedition gathered as many or more Relic cards than there 
are Injury cards in the Equipment deck, Equipment discard, and all 
players’ hands combined, you won the game!
“You returned alive. Maybe you’ll never 
be the same, after seeing such horrors. 
But the discoveries you uncovered have 
an immeasurable scientific value. 
The whole world is talking about you.”

Designer: Rob Daviau
Illustrator: Miguel Coimbra
Project Manager: Ludovic Papaïs
French Editor: Xavier Taverne
Graphic Designer: Frédéric Derlon
English editor: William Niebling
Translator: Danni Loe-Sterphone
CREDITS
Follow us on
It’s naturally impossible for me to report the steps according to which we 
recorded what we know of this monstrous chapter of prehuman life in their 
exact order.
After the first shock of the indisputable revelation, we needed to take a 
break, time to recover, and at least three hours passed before we undertook our 
true methodical research.
Ph’nglui mglw’nafh Cthulhu R’lyeh wgah’nagl fhtagn Ph’nglui mglw’nafh 
Cthulhu R’lyeh wgah’nagl fhtagn Ph’nglui mglw’nafh Cthulhu R’lyeh 
wgah’nagl fhtagn Ph’nglui mglw’nafh Cthulhu R’lyeh wgah’nagl fhtagn
In the building we entered, the sculptures were relatively 
recent -- maybe two million years old -- as geological, biological, and 
astronomical features would prove; they displayed an art that we would have 
described as decadent 
 in comparison to the examples discovered in the 
even older structures once crossed by bridges under a layer of ice.
Alex Majlaton
Ali Duck
Anastasia Barton
Andrew Mitchell
Andrew Scott
Ann Boger
Anna Decker
Ariel Jaffee
Brendan Hurst
Brendan Hurst
Brian Slattery
Bryan Drake
Caroline Pierce
Catherine Rossbach
Celeste Young & 
The Young Expedition
Christian Barrett
Christian Petersen
Christopher Barton
Christopher McKeon
Court Dimon
Daniel King
Daniel Newman
Daniel Stafford
Danielle Cantarella
Darren Nakamura
Dave Marden
David Nolin
Edgar Cheung
Eric Edens
Eric Klug
Glenn Flaherty
Hugo Villalobos
Ian Fay
Ian Zang
Iram Khan
James Horner
Jason Duck
Jennifer Egan
Jennifer Skahen
Joseph Owens
J.R. Honeycutt
Julian Murdoch
JV Kocian
Karla Andrich
Kate VanDoren
Katie Lewis
Keith Pishnery
Ken Marden
Kit Yona
Landon Gray
Loet
Mara Reiswitz
Mark Slattery
Matthew McCalla
Max Morawski
Maxx King
Mike Beers
Mike Bretzlaff
Mike Bubb
Mike Konald
Monica Cody
Nathan Lewis
Nick Beers
Nick Schultz
Patrick Mines
Paul Charchian
Phil Florian
Rebecca Way
Rob Borges
Rob Starobin
Robert Helms
Roxie Kraai
Ryan Egan
Scott Belchak
Shaun Shaffer
Shawn Andrich
Tim Kutschera
Tim Pskowski
TJ Jackson
Tom Jankowski
Tony Reiswitz
Zach Dyer
Zain Horner
Joseph Owens
Jenni Owens
Chase Lingelbach
Harry Readinger
PLAYTESTERS
ADDITIONAL DESIGNERS
The IronWall Interns 2015 (Misha Favorv, Wynn Chenn, Vanessa 
Briceño, Geoff Suthers, Elyse Lemoine) and 2016 (Rohan Y Flinn, 
Alain C Farra, Jennifer H Allaway, Jonathan D Ahern).
CONTRIBUTORS TO THE “MADNESS”
Cody Lewis, Doug Levandowski.
indisputable revelation
sculptures
Tekeli -li
bridges under a layer of ice
impossible
decadent