Thin cow: f) The player who added this card to the herd does not take a replacement card at the end of 
his turn.
Dairy cow: g) The player who added this card to the herd takes two replacement cards instead of 1.
Mad cow: h) Replace the 8 cow with this cow and add the 8 cow to your hand. Do not take an additional 
card from the deck. Whilst there is a mad cow in the herd, only cows with flies can be added to the herd.
Note! a farmer who plays a special cow with 5 flies from the yellow packet can, if he wishes, choose who 
the next player will be. The game continues normally with that player’s turn. 
BRING THE HERD INTO THE COWSHED
A farmer who CANNOT or DOES NOT WANT to add a cow to the line, takes all the cards in the herd and 
places them face down in his cowshed.… Then, he starts a new herd. Each fly in a cowshed produces 
1 embarrassment point at the end of the game.
END OF THE ROUND AND END OF THE GAME
Once the last cow is taken from the deck, the game continues until a farmer takes the last herd. Then the 
farmers add all the cows remaining in their hand to their cowshed. They add up all the flies present in their 
cowshed and add this to their running total. A game of MOW is played over several rounds: as soon as a 
farmer has accumulated 100 flies at the end of a round, the game ends. The winner is the farmer with the 
fewest flies. Often, the loser can be heard imitating the sound of a cow….in shame and sadness!
HEAD TO HEAD for 2 farmers (use the green packet) (Illustration IV)
This is played with three separate herds, laid out in a star shape. The cards can be stacked for ease of 
play. At the beginning of each round, the ARROW points clockwise. The first farmer starts a herd. Then 
the second farmer starts a second herd. Then the first farmer starts a third herd. Then the second farmer 
continues with the first herd etc. Thus there are three herds on the table being completed alternately. 
When a farmer CANNOT or DOES NOT WANT to add a cow, he takes the herd and starts a new herd in 
its place without affecting the other two. When the deck is empty and one of the farmers takes one of the 
three herds, the round ends. Neither farmer collects points for the two remaining herds. All the other rules 
stay the same.
Thanks: We’d like to thank cows from around the world as, without them, this game would not exist. 
Hurrican gurantees that no cow was hurt or mistreated during development of this game
Translation: Do you speak and write a language that is missing from the rules booklet? Well, don’t hang 
around: translate the rules to Mow and send them to mow@hurricangames.com and we will publish them 
on our web site!
These rules were translated into English by Gavin Wynford-Jones.
A game by Bruno Cathala 
for 2 to 10 farmers 
aged 7 to 77777 (at least)
SUMMARY
The players are farmers. They round up cows and form them into herds ready to be brought into the 
cowshed. However, some cows are infested with flies, and nobody really wants to be near those…
THE AIM
To have the fewest flies in your cowshed at the end of the game.
Each packet contains 48 COW CARDS for a total of 74 flies. Illustration I and V
15 cows, numbered from 1 to 15, without any flies / 13 cows, numbered from 2 to 14, with 1 fly each 
11 cows, numbered from 3 to 13, with 2 flies each / 3 cows numbered 7, 8 and 9 with three flies each 
6 special cows with a super power… and five flies! / 1 ARROW card showing the direction of play 
4 illustration cards (green packet I to IV - yellow packet V to VII).
HOW TO PLAY
If there are 3 to 5 players, use the green packet.
If there are 6 to 10 players, use both packets. In both cases, shuffle the cards well.
Each farmer is dealt five cow cards. The remainder are left facedown in the centre of the table. The farmer 
who starts the game places the arrow card in front of him pointing towards his lefthand neighbour. He 
plays a first card from his hand in the centre of the table and takes a new card from the deck. Then each 
farmer in turn adds a cow with either a greater or lower number than those already played and takes a 
new card from the deck! In illustration II, you can add a cow with a number less than 7 or greater than 11.
Special cows: Illustration III shows the special cows with five flies from the green packet.
Blocking cow a) Play this cow to block off one end of the line.
Acrobatic cow b) Play this cow on another cow with the same number. This card cannot be played unless 
the requisite cow is already part of the herd and has the same number (7 or 9).
Slowpoke cow c) Insert this cow into the line in place of a missing number. For example, it can take the 
place of the 6, 7 or 8 between the 5 and the 9.
Note! a farmer who plays a special cow with 5 flies from the green packet can, if he wishes, change the 
direction of play. In this case, he takes the ARROW card, pointing it left or right as he prefers. The game 
continues in the direction shown by the arrow.
Special cows: Illustrations VI and VII show the special cows with 5 flies from the yellow packet.
Blocking cow d) Play this cow to block off one end of the line.
Calf e) Play this card at the end of the line, next to a cow without any flies (that is, with a green 
background). Its value is one more or one less than the cow next to it. If placed next to the 1, its value is 0. 
(No further cows may be placed next to a cow worth 0!)
EN

Hurrican Edition SA
Castelver 4
1255 Veyrier / CH
www.hurricangames.com
Come to visit us at
WWW.HURRICANGAMES.COM