MATERIAL
• 9 street tiles, hereafter referred to as Areas. 
They are double-sided and used as the game board, hereafter referred to as the District. 
On one side, there is no Character: this is the Empty side 
On the other side, there is a Character: this is the Suspect side.
• 3 Detective tokens representing Holmes, Watson and their dog Toby.
• 9 Alibi cards. Each of these cards represents a character in the Mr. Jack universe. 
Each of the cards also shows a number of Hourglasses (0, 1 or 2).

SET-UP
The playing area represents the District of Whitechapel divided into nine areas. 
The streets can extend from one area to the next or be blocked by the walls of buildings, 
which we shall refer to in the rest of the rules simply as walls. 
Note: The Barricade shown on the grey character’s area is also considered to be a wall.
Shuffle the cards and set them out in a square with the Suspect side face up.
Position and orientation of the tiles is choosen randomly.
The Investigator sets up the three Detective tokens as shown in the illustration (1). 
Holmes next to the top-left area, Watson next to the top-right area and the dog next to 
the middle area on the bottom row. Rotate each of these three areas so that the Detective 
tokens are next to a wall as shown in the illustration.
• 4 double-sided Action tokens with different actions that we shall discover later
• 8 double-sided Time tokens with one side showing a Turn number from 1 to 8 and the
other side showing an Hourglass

Mr. Jack draws an Alibi card, mentally notes the Character and places it face down in front 
of him (2). This card shows the identity that Mr Jack has adopted as his disguise. 
The remaining cards are placed in a pile next to the district (3).
Place the eight Turn tokens face up (4) in a line in ascending numerical order. 
These tokens show the progression of the game and act as a game aid to determine 
who starts a given turn. 
Example of set-up and game start
magnifying glass: inspector begins 
knife: jack begins
INTRODUCTION
In the darkened streets of Whitechapel, Mr. Jack slips through the shadows, pursued 
by Holmes, his companion Watson... and their dog Toby!
A game lasts about fifteen minutes and takes a maximum of eight turns. If one of the players 
achieves his objective before the eighth turn, the game ends immediately. 
Mr. Jack Pocket is an asymmetric game: that is, each player has different objectives. 
Mr. Jack
Inspector

THE AIM OF THE GAME FOR THE INVESTIGATOR
Discover which identity is being used by Mr. Jack from among the nine suspects. 
To do so, there can only be one remaining Suspect before the end of the eighth turn.
THE AIM OF THE GAME FOR MR. JACK
Keep his identity a secret by causing the Investigator to waste as much time as possible. 
This requires Mr. Jack to acquire six hourglasses before being indentified, showing that the 
Investigator has taken too much time to complete his investigation. 
 
PRINCIPLE OF THE GAME
Each turn is played in two stages: The Manhunt and the Appeal for Witnesses. 
During the first stage, four actions are carried out, two per player. These actions enable 
the Detectives to be moved round the District, for example, to change the facing or position 
of an area or to obtain Alibi cards. 
During the second stage, there is an Appeal for Witnesses. Mr. Jack tells the Investigator 
if his character is or is not in the Detectives’ line of sight. The Investigator can thus perhaps 
clear some characters by turning tiles over to their empty side, thereby reducing the 
number of suspects and closing the net in on Mr. Jack.

FIRST STAGE – THE MANHUNT 
The sequence of play is different in Even and Odd turns.
Odd Turns (1-3-5-7) – the Investigator starts
He throws the four Action tokens in the air in such a way that they land on the table near 
the district. The faces of the tokens show which actions are available during this turn. 
Note: During the turn, be careful to leave the tokens as they were thrown, as the other sides 
will be used in the following turn.
He selects one of the four actions and carries it out.
Then, Mr. Jack chooses two actions from the remaining three and plays them. 
The order in which this is done is not important.
Finally, the Investigator plays the remaining available action. Play now moves to the second 
stage, the Appeal for Witnesses.
Even Turns (2-4-6-8) – Mr. Jack starts 
He turns over the four tokens to reveal the four actions that were hidden during 
the previous turn.
He selects one of the four actions and carries it out.
Then the Investigator chooses two of the remaining three actions and carries them out. 
The order in which this is done is not important.
Finally, Mr. Jack plays the remaining available action. Play now moves to the second stage, 
the Appeal for Witnesses. 

Joker
If the Investigator chooses this action:
- He moves a Detective token of his choice one space clockwise. 
Holmes / Watson / The dog
The corresponding Detective token is moved one or two spaces clockwise. 
More than one Detective can occupy a given space next to an area.
If Mr. Jack chooses this action, he can either:
- Move a Detective token of his choice one space clockwise, or
- Leave the three Detective tokens where they are.
THE ACTIONS IN DETAIL – (All the actions are mandatory) 
Rotation
The player rotates an area tile by 90 degrees (in either direction) 
or by 180 degrees, thus moving the wall to either block or open up 
a Detective’s line of sight. There are two actions of this type. 
The action may not be used to rotate a tile that has already been rotated 
in the same turn.

Alibi
If the Investigator chooses this action:
- he takes an Alibi card and reveals it. If the card shows a character who is 
still a suspect, the Investigator has cleared them and turns over the 
appropriate area tile to its empty side. Mr Jack loses any hourglasses that
were on the card...
If Mr. Jack chooses this action:
- He takes an Alibi card, but doesn’t show it to the Investigator. He keeps it
face down in front of him. He mentally adds any hourglasses on the card
to any hourglass tokens already acquired.
Exchange
The player switches two area tiles without changing their orientation.
SECOND STAGE - APPEAL FOR WITNESSES
Mr. Jack tells the Investigator if his character can been seen by a Detective or not. Mr. Jack 
can be seen if he is in a Detective’s line of sight, without any wall blocking the view. 
A suspect who is hidden behind a wall cannot be seen. 
If Mr. Jack can be seen, any area tiles with the suspect side up that are not 
in the line of sight of one of the detectives are turned over to show their 
empty side. The Investigator takes the current Turn token, thus depriving 
Mr Jack of it…

If Mr. Jack cannot be seen, any area tiles with the suspect side up that are in 
the line of sight of one of the detectives are turned over to show their empty 
side. In this case, it’s Mr. Jack who takes the current Turn token, which is 
placed in front of him, hourglass side up. 
Important Note: When turning tiles over, take care to ensure that the wall faces the same 
way before and after doing so.
In this example:
Holmes has the white character (John Pizer) in his 
line of sight, but cannot see the Purple (William Gull) 
one as he is behind a wall.Toby cannot see anybody 
since the Blue (Inspector Lestrade) and Green cha-
racters (Miss Stealthy) are both behind a wall.
Watson has the Orange (Jeremy Bert) and Purple 
characters (William Gull) in his line of sight.
Therefore:
If Mr. Jack says that he can be seen, that means that 
he must be one of White, Purple or Orange. The tiles 
containing the Green, Blue and Pink characters are 
therefore turned over to their empty sides. 
If Mr. Jack says that he cannot be seen, that means 
that he must be one of Green, Blue or Pink. The tiles 
containing the White, Purple or Orange characters 
are therefore turned over to their empty sides.

HOW DO YOU WIN?
The game ends if one of the players has achieved their objective at the end of a turn.
For the Investigator 
Only one Suspect remains after an Appeal for Witnesses. 
That suspect is obviously the guilty party!
For Mr. Jack
After an Appeal for Witnesses, he has at least six hourglasses between the Turn tokens 
and those on any Alibi cards acquired during the course of the game.
Special case
It is possible for both players to achieve their objectives on the same turn. 
If this occurs at the end of the eighth turn: the Investigator wins if Mr. Jack can be seen. 
Mr. Jack wins if he cannot be seen.
If this occurs before the eighth turn, the game continues and there is a merciless race 
between the Investigator and Mr. Jack!
The Investigator wins as soon as a turn ends in which Mr. Jack can be seen.
Mr. Jack wins if he remains hidden until the end of the eighth turn.