Hurrican
Castelver 4 
1255 Veyrier / CH
www.hurricangames.com
Auteurs:	Bruno Cathala &
	
Ludovic Maublanc

A game of investigation for 2 players aged 14 and up, by Bruno Cathala and Ludovic Maublanc
Forward
This new game takes the “Mr Jack” series up to three titles:
- Mr Jack (basic game)
- Mr Jack supplement (for use with the basic game only)
- Mr Jack in New York
Mr Jack in New York is a complete game. You do not need to own or have played the other titles in order to play it.
Nevertheless, because of the increased tactical possibilities in the New York version, we recommend that players who are new to the world of board games 
should start with the basic “Mr Jack” game.
London – 19 November 1888 
As part of the investigation into the “Jack the Ripper” affair, Francis J. Tumblety, a quack doctor, 
is arrested and released on bail. He immediately flees to the United States.
New York – Manhattan Island – January 1889
Alerted by London, the New York police are on the lookout for Tumblety. Various witnesses confirm his 
presence in Manhattan and crimes are committed with a modus operandi similar to those in London. 
The police call upon some of the city’s most eminent citizens to help them with their investigation.
Is Tumblety really Jack? If not, who is he pretending to be? These are the stakes in “Mr Jack in New York”. 
 Advice
We recommend that you read the rules through completely before playing your first game; this will give you a good overview of the game. 
Then, set the game up as shown in the Set-up section. 
Then reread the rules as you start to play. If you have any questions, consult the FAQ. 
After a couple of games, you should notice that you no longer need to consult the rules. We hope you enjoy the game!
•	1 game board representing Manhattan island. There is a game summary and turn track on the right of the board. 
•	8 double-sided Character tokens, in 8 different colours, with Suspect on one side and Innocent on the other. You will need to apply the stickers to these 
tokens before the first game, ensuring that the colours match (for example, a sticker with a red background on the red token, etc). 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
Suspect 
	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
	
Innocent
• 1 double-sided Informant token with a 
Talkative side and a Mute side. 
•	2 transatlantic Steamer tiles 
•	1 Witness card with a Visible side and an 
Invisible side.
•	 6 double-sided tiles with a Gaslamp on one 
side and a Park on the other.
•	 7 double-sided tiles with a Metro entrance on 
one side and a Park on the other.
•	 4 double-sided tiles with a Building site on one 
side and a Park on the other.
•	8 light-blue-backed Character cards 
representing the characters in the game, 
with pictograms symbolising movement and 
special powers. 
•	8 dark-blue-backed Alibi cards, one 
for each Character 
• 1 turn marker, grey. 
(Apply the appropriate 
sticker to this token before 
the first game.)
•	2 Investigation tiles 
 Talkative
 Mute
Visible
Invisible
CONTENTS

	 
Shadow and Light / Visible and Invisible. The board represents the lower end of Manhattan island during its urbanisation.
(The masculine pronoun is used throughout these rules for clarity. Nothing should be inferred by this.)
One player takes the role of Jack the Ripper. 
He will be referred to as “Jack” in the remainder of these rules. 
This player is the only one who knows Jack’s real identity. His objective is either to escape the Detective’s clutches by preventing him from discovering 
his true identity, or to leave Manhattan under cover of obscurity.
The other player takes the role of the police Detective. 
He will be referred to as the “Detective” in the remainder of these rules. 
His objective is to discover Jack’s real identity, and to arrest him before the end of the 8th and final round.
Each round, four characters will be activated (two by the Detective and two by Jack).
Then there is an appeal for witnesses and Jack reveals if he is visible or invisible.
Visible characters ✶: Any Character on a lighted space (one next to a Gaslamp) is 
visible, because they can be seen by anybody in Manhattan, by any passer-by. This 
is also the case if two characters are on adjacent street spaces, even if they are unlit. 
Both characters are considered to be visible since their closeness enables one to see 
the other despite the darkness. 
Invisible characters: Any Character who is neither on a lighted street space nor on 
a street space adjacent to another Character (who is also on a street space) is 
considered to be invisible. Characters on a Park tile are always invisible, even if 
there are characters on the adjacent spaces or if the Park is next to a lighted space.
Therefore, at the end of each round, the Detective will be able to definitively eliminate certain characters from the investigation and tighten the noose 
around the others according to the whether Jack says he is visible or not. 
The game becomes a fierce struggle between Jack and the Detective as they try to place the various characters in order to make them visible or invisible. 
The Detective will try to reduce, little by little, the number of suspects whilst limiting the opportunities for Jack to escape, whereas the latter will do 
everything possible to impede the Detective’s deductions and take advantage of the slightest mistake to escape for ever!
The players choose who is to play Jack and who plays the detective.
The detective faces the board with the yellow edge in front of him.
Jack is on the other side of the board, and sees it as upside down. 
The colour of the edge in front of him
is grey. 
Place the Character tokens, the Metro 
entrances, the Gaslamp tiles, 
the investigation tiles and the Steamers 
as shown in the illustration. Place the 
Character tokens with their suspect
side visible (1). 
Place the Informant tile on 
Liberty Island, with the Talkative 
side visible (2). 
Shuffle the 8 Character cards and 
place them face down next to the 
board (3). 
Shuffle the 8 Alibi cards and 
place them face down next to 
the board (4). 
Place the Visible/Invisible card 
next to the board with its visible side up for the first round (5).
Put the Turn marker on the Turn N° 1 space (6). (This is the first space on the Turn track, next to the Detective).
Jack takes an Alibi card, looks at it secretly, and places it face down in front of him (7). Jack is disguised as this Character throughout the game. 
(This character is the only one without an alibi.) 
Note: at the beginning of the game, once everything has been set up, two characters are invisible and six are visible.
GAME BASICS
SET-UP

GAME TURN
The game is played over a maximum of 8 rounds. Each round proceeds as follows: 
I. Selection and activation of characters
Four characters will be played each round, each player taking two of them.
On odd-numbered rounds (1-3-5-7)
Take the first four character cards from the pile and place them face up on the table. 
The Detective selects one of the four character cards and plays it (he moves the character token and/or uses the special power). The character card is then 
returned face down to the table. 
Then Jack selects two characters out of the remaining three. He plays them in the same way and returns them face down to the table. 
Finally, the Detective plays the remaining character.
On even-numbered rounds (2-4-6-8)
Take the four remaining character cards from the pile and place them face up on the table. 
This time, Jack plays a chracter first, then the Detective plays two characters, and finally Jack plays the last one.
At the end of the even-numbered rounds, shuffle all eight character cards once again.
The pay aid/turn counter uses symbols to show the order in which the 
players select characters. The colour of the cards corresponds 
to the colour of the game board’s border in front of each player.
(Yellow for the Detective, Grey for Jack).
II. Appeal for Witnesses
The four characters have been played. Jack must now announce whether he is visible or invisible.
Visible 
Invisible 
 
ATTENTION: If Jack is invisible at the end of a round, and only under this 
condition, he can attempt to leave Manhattan on the following turn.
If his movement enables him to leave Manhattan, he has won the game!! 
III. End of the round
Once all the preceding steps have been carried out, the next round begins. 
Move the turn marker up one space.
There are THREE possible ways to end the game: 
1. Jack leaves Manhattan 
Jack moves his token out of Manhattan via an exit or a port space, that is not blocked by an Investigations tile. Jack wins the game. 
Reminder: this is only possible during a round in which the Witness card is invisible side up. 
2. The Detective arrests Jack 
The Detective moves a chracter onto the same space as Jack and accuses him: 
- if the accusation is correct: the Detective wins the game. 
- if the accusation is incorrect: Jack wins the game by taking advantage of all the judicial confusion to escape! 
3. Jack has not been arrested
If Jack has not been arrested by the end of the eighth round, he wins the game! 
Jack is visible if his character is on a lit space or is next to another 
character, except if the other character is in a Park.
Jack places the card next to the board with its visible side up, as 
shown opposite. In this case, all the invisible characters have been 
exonerated. The Detective turns them “Innocent” side up without 
changing the space they are on. The card is left next to the board 
with its visible side up and remains like that for whole of the 
next round.
Jack is invisible if his character is on an unlit space and is not next to 
another character, or if he is in a Park!
Jack places the card next to the board with its invisible side up, as 
shown opposite. In this case, all the visible characters have been 
exonerated. The Detective turns them “Innocent” side up without 
changing the space they are on. The card is left next to the board 
with its invisible side up and remains like that for whole of the 
next round.
 GAME END 

THE CHARACTERS AND THEIR USES
	
	
 
	
	
There are eight different characters. 
	
	
Each character, when used, must move and/or use a 	
	
	
Special ability. The symbols on the card help to 
	
	
remember more easily what the special ability of 
The silver circle shows the possible movement of the character
.
 
 
	
	 each character is and when it must (or can) be used. 
The golden circle shows the ability of the character. The shape of the area shows when the ability is to be used:
	
	
	
the ability MUST be used before or after a movement
	
	
the ability CAN be used instead of a movement
Alfred Ely Beach: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the Power 
Beginning in 1860, he noticed, like all New Yorkers, that traffic had become a real nightmare. A visionary, he proposed building an 
underground railway. Around the time of this game he was building tunnels more or less secretly in order to test his new pneumatic 
transportation system. Despite interesting results, the project was abandoned and New York had to wait untl 1904 for the metro to really 
arrive.
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after his movement, Alfred Ely Beach MUST construct a new metro entrance. Place a new 
Metro entrance tile on an empty street space that is not adjacent to another Metro entrance.
Cloud Rider: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power 
In 1886, Mohawk Indians were hired to construct bridges and skyscrapers. 
Their ability to “walk on the sky’s girders” made them famous. 
Cloud Rider is one of them.
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after her movement, Cloud 
Rider MUST start a new building construction site. Place a construction tile 
on an empty street space.
Cloud Rider is the only character with a special movement power: she can 
cross building and building sites space at no cost in movement points (she 
moves through them “for free”). She must end her movement on a street space.
Lewis Howard Latimer: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power 
An engineer with the Edison Company and the only black person on their research team, he is responible for installing the city’s 
lighting system.
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after his movement, Lewis Howard Latimer MUST install a Gaslight on an empty street 
space that is not adjacent to another Gaslight.
Mrs Emma Grant: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power
An ecologist before her time and wife of Hugh L. Grant, Mayor of New York, she let her husband strut around society’s soirées whilst she 
went out and changed the city’s fixtures according to her whims.
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after her movement, Mrs Emma Grant MUST create a park. This is done by turning a 
Gaslight, Building site or Metro entrance on the board to its Park side. Two parks can be adjacent. A Metro entrance can be turned into a 
Park even if it is occupied by a character or the Informant. However, a Metro entrance covered with an Investigations tile canot be turned 
into a Park.
James H. Callahan: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power 
After spending a long time with the famous Texas Rangers right up until 1885, he has recently been transferred to NY. His ability to 
resolve unsavoury “business” earned him the nickname “Dirty Harry”. 
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after his movement, James H. Callahan MUST move an Investigations tile. 
Each Investigation tile covers two spaces on the board and prevents access to them: no character can enter or cross an Investigation 
space. Investigation tiles can cover street spaces, metro entrances and parks as long as there are no characters on them. As soon as the 
Investigation tile is moved to another part of the board, these spaces regain their initial functions. 
Monk Eastman: Move 1 to 3 spaces OR use the power 
Beneath his nondescript appearance (he runs an animal house and is always accompanied by a small monkey on his shoulder) hides a 
local mafia godfather. He has the means to cause others to act as he wishes.
Special power (OPTIONAL): Instead of his normal movement, Monk Eastman MAY choose to move another character 1 to 3 spaces. 
This character must have the same status (visible or invisible) as Monk Eastman AT THE MOMENT OF HIS ACTIVATION.
If Eastman is visible when he is activated by a player, he can move any other visible character 1 to 3 spaces instead of taking his own 
movement.
If Eastman is invisible when he is activated by a player, he can move any other invisible character 1 to 3 spaces instead of taking his own 
movement.
Any character moved by Eastman cannot use the metro nor can they accuse another character.
Cloud Rider cannot cross building sites when under the influence of Monk Eastman. On the other hand, the moved character can leave 
Manhattan by boat or land and may also contact the Informant and thus gain a new Alibi card.

Francis J. Tumblety: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power 
A suspect in London, on the run in NY, he claims to be a doctor but is, in fact, a charlatan who uses hypnosis to force those he meets to 
act in his own interests.
Special power (OPTIONAL): Before or after his movement and if he wants to, Francis J.Tumblety MAY swap the positions of a 
character to whom he is adjacent with any other character on the board regardless of the space which the character currently occupies.
For example, Francis J. Tumblety could move next to a character in a park and then swap that character with another character of his 
choice, even one on Liberty Island. Swapping the positions of two characters has no direct effect on the Informant.
Edward Smith: Move 1 to 3 spaces AND use the power 
Born in 1850 in England, he was appointed captain in 1887. Very quickly, his reputation led him to take on responsibilities in the port 
of NY. However, this part of his life is less well known than his tragic end when, in 1912, he was in command of the Titanic on his last 
voyage before retirement.
Special power (MANDATORY): Before or after his movement, Edward Smith MUST move a steamer to another empty port space. 
The Informant
Living on the edge of society, the Informant is discrete. Not very talkative by nature and giving out information sparingly, he has often 
been called “the Silent One”. 
The Informant resembles a new character but isn’t considered as such. He can provide vital information to those who come to see him.
When his Talkative side is face up, any character can visit him by moving onto the space he occupies. The visitor takes the place of the 
Informant and places the latter Silent side visible on any unoccupied street space, metro entrance, quayside, park or Liberty Island (if he 
wasn’t already there), that is not blocked by an Investigation tile.
Once that has been done, the player takes an Alibi card, looks at it, and places it face down in front of him without revealing it to his 
opponent.
The Informant can only be used when his Talkative side is face up. If the Silent side is face up, he doesn’t block any of the other 
characters’ movement. However, they must not end their movement on the same space as him.
If the Informant is Silent side up at the beginning of a round, it is turned over so that the Talkative side is visible.
Street spaces
These sapces are street spaces. New metro entrances, 
gaslights and building sites can be placed on these 
spaces.
Quayside spaces
These are passages allowing access to Liberty Island. 
Character tokens can move onto and remain on these 
spaces. Metro entrances, building sites and gaslights 
cannot be placed on these spaces. Also, they cannot be 
covered by Investigation tiles.
Access to Liberty Island
It is possible to reach Liberty Island. To get there and 
back, characters must use the ferries (by following the 
arrows). Each arrow used costs one movement point. 
Nothing can be built on Liberty Island nor can Investiga-
tion tiles be placed there.
Port spaces
Sea spaces, in red, are port spaces for the transatlantic 
steamers. Only Jack can board a steamer and thus escape 
and win the game! (As long as he ended the previous 
round in the shadows.) 
Land exit
Two street spaces provide access to the only land exit on 
the board. Only Jack can use the land exit and thus leave 
Manhattan in order to escape and win the game! (As long 
as he ended the previous round in the shadows.)
Building spaces and Building site tiles
These spaces are obstacles for all characters except Cloud 
Rider, who may cross them freely. (See Cloud Rider’s 
special movement).
Metro entrance tiles
If a character starts (or moves on to) a metro entrance, he 
can use one movement point to move to any other space 
with a metro entrance.
Investigation tiles
Investigation tiles mark areas in which the police are 
conducting discrete investigations for the slightest clue. 
Characters are strictly forbidden from entering these areas. 
Investigation tiles can cover street spaces, parks and metro 
entrances, rendering them temporariliy inaccessible. They 
cannot cover the quaysides.
Gaslights
These light up all adjacent street spaces 
and metro entrances. 
These tiles are obstacles for all characters.
Park tiles
Any character in a park is invisible.
USE OF TOKENS OR SPECIAL HEXES

When I activate a character, can I leave it where it is? 
When a character is activated, it must be moved at least one space and may not end its move where it began. 
However, it is possible for a character to be blocked by Investigation tiles, in which case it does not move but must nevertheless use its special 
power if the latter is MANDATORY.
When I move a character, can I move it through spaces occupied by another character? 
Yes!! Characters do not block movement. 
A character’s movement can only end on a space occupied by another character if you want to make an accusation!!! 
If I activate a character, am I obliged to use its power? 
Most powers are MANDATORY. In that case, you must use them, whether it suits you or not. The only optional powers are Tumblety’s and 
Eastman’s. Cloud Rider’s power is only optional during her movement.
What happens if the Detective works out who Jack is but fails to catch him before the end of the last round? 
Jack was lucky… His real identity was known... But it’s too late and he managed to escape. Jack wins the game. 
Can either of the players cause a character other than Jack to leave Manhattan? 
No!! Only the Jack player is allowed to move a character out of Manhattan via an exit that isn’t blocked by an Investigation tile. 
And that character must be Jack!
Can a character enter or exit a metro via an entrance on which there is a character? 
Yes!! As long as it doesn’t stay there, except to make an accusation. 
Can a character on Liberty Island be made visible? 
No!! This is impossible. Characters are always invisible there.
Is it possible for Jack to escape on the first round?
No!! In order to escape Jack must be invisible. And the first appeal for witnesses takes place at the end of the first round. Consequently, 
Jack cannot escape before round 2.
When I move an Investigation tile, is it possible for it to cover one of its two original spaces?
Yes!! The movement is valid as long as at least one new space is covered by the tile.
Can Alfred Ely Beach create a metro entrance under a character?
No!! Metro entrances can only be created on empty street spaces.
Is Monk Eastman’s power linked to the state of the Witness card?
No!! Monk Eastman’s power is linked to the state of the Monk Eastman Character token at the moment when it is activated by the player. 
If Monk Eastman is visible, he can move any other visible character instead of moving himself.
If Monk Eastman is invisible, he can move any other invisible character instead of moving himself.
Can I use Monk Eastman’s power to accuse another character?
No!! Accusations must always be made by the character selected by the player.
Can I use Monk Eastman’s power to move another character onto the Informant?
Yes!! As long as the Informant is Talkative side up.
 Can I use Monk Eastman’s power to make Jack escape?
Yes!! That is why the Detective must pay particular attention to this character.
Francis J. Tumblety is on a street space next to a park on which there is another character. Can he swap this character’s position 
with another?
Yes!! This is a useful way for the Detective to eliminate suspects!
Can Francis J. Tumblety use his power more than once if he is next to more than one character?
No!! He can only use his power on one character per round.
Is a character next to the Informant visible or invisible?
The Informant is not considered to be a character token. Therefore it is not taken into account when appealing for witnesses and has no effect on 
the status of other characters.
An Investigation tile is covering a metro entrance. Can I construct another metro entance next to it?
No!! Even if covered, two metro entrances cannot be adjacent.
 Is it possible to transform a metro entrance into a park if there is a character on it? Yes!! Absolutely. 
Is it possible to transform a metro entrance into a park if there is an Investigation tile on it? No!!
Tactical Advice Mr Jack in New York uses a board that is constantly changing. Jack can escape by land or sea. With two mobile exits (the steamers). 
the Detective is going to have to adapt to this new menace. Therefore, unlike the basic game, it is not wise to let too many characters become invisible at 
the same time, for fear of multiple threats that will become difficult to counter. The wise Detective will therefore proceed with caution, keeping in mind 
the powers of Tumblety and Eastman. 
Thanks The authors and publisher wish to extend their deepest thanks to Stefan Esch for his inestimable help during the development of this game.
Many thanks also go to our internet testers: Olivier Péant (lutxo), Dean Ackeles (Wheelsforhextall), Benoit Chain (Moichain), Pascal Dupretz (Scalpaf) 
and Arnaud Fillon (Arnaud).
You can mail us through our website: www.hurricangames.com. We will gladly answer you.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ)

Jeu de base / das Basisspiel / basic game 
basisspel / juego de base / gioco base 
jogo de base.

L’extension (valable pour le jeu de base uniquement) 
die Erweiterung (als Ergänzung zum Basisspiel) 
supplement (for use with the basic game only) / uitbreiding 
(voor het basisspel) / la extensión (válida únicamente con el 
juego de base) / estensione (utilizzabile solo con il gioco di 
base) / expansão (válida unicamente para o jogo de base).