- Before your first game, we advise you to read the rules completely: 
this will allow you to get a good overview of the game. 
- Then set up the game using the SET-UP section. 
- Read the rules again before starting to play.
- For all questions, refer to the FAQ.
- After the second game, you will realize that you do not need the 
rules anymore. We wish you a lot of fun! 
Contents
innocent
Visible
Invisible
1 Witness card wih a Visible side 
and an Invisible side
8 character cards with a green 
back, picturing one character 
each, together with symbols 
summing up the movement and 
special ability.
8 alibi cards, with a red back, 
picturing one character each.
8 character tokens of 8 different colours, with suspect on one 
side and innocent on the other. 
(Before the first game, you need to put 
the stickers on the tokens according to the 
colours – e.g. Red background sticker on the 
red token, etc)
1 round counter token 
(before the first game, you must put 
the appropriate sticker on the token).
6 lit gaslight tiles (4 tiles that 
are numbered from 1 to 4 and 
2 tiles without numbers)
2 police cordon tokens
	
 
2 covered manhole tiles 
 suspect 
1 game board picturing the Whitechapel district and 
divided into hexagonal areas (or hexes). The right section 
of the board features a round counter section.
Principle of the game
Shadow and Light/Visible and Invisible
The game board represents Whitechapel, with its badly-lit alleyways. Some of the gaslights are lit: all adjacent areas are lit, the 
others are in the shadows. 
One player takes the role of Jack.
He will be referred to as «Jack» throughout these rules.
He is the only one who knows whose identity he is using. His objective is to escape from the Detective, thus stopping the 
latter from discovering his real identity, or to leave Whitechapel under cover of darkness.
The other player takes on the role of the Detective.
He will be referred to as «the Detective» throughout these rules.
His objective is to reveal Jack’s real identity and to arrest him before the end of the eighth round.
Four characters are activated in each round: two by the Detective and two by Jack.
Then there is a call for witnesses. Jack must state whether his character is visible or not.
A deduction game for 2 players, age 9+, by Bruno Cathala and Ludovic Maublanc.
1888 - London - Whitechapel district 
The night covers the gloomy alleys with a veil of darkness.
Jack is moving in the shadows... The finest investigators of the gaslight 
age have gathered here to catch him before he uses the darkness to slip 
away for good. The trap is slowly closing upon him... 
But Jack is cunning. He is in fact impersonating one of the 
investigators... Will the others unmask him? 
Advice: 

Visible characters 
 : characters on a lit hex (those adjacent to a lit gaslight) are visible, 
because they can be seen by anybody passing by. Likewise, if two characters are on adjacent 
hexes, even if not lit, they are considered visible as their proximity allows them to see each 
other through the gloom.
Invisible characters: a character who is neither on a lit hex (whether lit by a gaslight or 
Watson’s lamp) nor on a hex adjacent to another character, is considered to be invisible.
Therefore, at the end of each round, the Detective can definitively exclude certain characters 
based on Jack’s declaration (visible or invisible) and hone in on the guilty party.
The game is a fierce struggle between Jack and the Detective in which they aim to move the 
various characters to their advantage, making them visible or invisible:
The Detective will try to reduce the number of suspects each round, all while limiting Jack’s oportunities for escape;
Jack will do all he can to slow the Detective’s process of elimination down, all while keeping an eye out for the slightest 
slip-up which will enable him to escape forever! 
Set-up
Unfold the double page at the end of this rulebook to be able to refer to the picture while you’re reading the text below.
The players choose who is to play Jack and who plays the detective. 
The detective faces the board in the upright position: the yellow edge is in front of him.
Jack is on the other side of the board, and sees it as upside down. The colour of the edge in front of him is grey.
The character tokens, the closed sewer tiles and the gaslight tiles are set out on the board as shown. 
Note: at the beginning of the game four characters are visible and four invisible. All the character tokens should have their 
«suspect» side face up.
The eight character cards are shuffled and placed face down beside to the board.
The eight alibi cards are shuffled and placed face down next to the board.
The Witness card is placed Visible side up for the first round .
The round counter token is set on the «Round 1» hex (It is the first step in the round counter, closest to the detective).
The player playing Jack draws one alibi card, secretly reads it and places it face down in front of him. This is the character 
that Jack will be impersonating during this game. (This character is the only one that has no alibi.)
Game round
Each game unfolds over several rounds, eight at most. Each round unfolds as follows:
I
Choosing and using the characters
During each round, four characters are played, two by each player.
During the odd-numbered rounds (1-3-5-7)
Draw the first four character cards from the pile and place them face up.
The detective chooses a character among the four and plays it (he moves the character 
token and/or uses the character’s special ability). The character card is then turned over 
and placed face down.
Jack then chooses two characters from the three remaining ones. He plays them in 
the same way, and then places the cards face down.
And finally, the detective plays the last face-up character.
During the even-numbered rounds (2-4-6-8)
Draw the last four character cards from the pile and place them face up.
Jack now chooses and plays one character, the detective then plays two 
characters, and finally Jack plays the last one.

The round counter shows with symbols the order in which the players choose their 
characters. 
The color of the cards is the same as that of the board edge in front of which each 
player is sitting (yellow for the detective who sees the board upright, and grey for 
Jack who sits sees the board upside down.)
II
Call for Witnesses
Once the four characters have been played, Jack must declare whether he is visible or not.
Visible
Jack is visible if the character he is using is in a lit hex or is next to another 
character.
Jack rounds the Witness card so that its Visible side is face up, as shown.
All invisible characters are now deemed to be innocent.
The Detective rounds their character tokens Innocent side up, without 
changing their location.
The Witness card is left Visible side up next to the gameboard and remains 
that way throughout the next round.
Invisible
Jack is invisible if the character he is using is on an unlit hex and is not next 
to any other character.
Jack rounds the Witness card so that its Invisible side is face up, as shown. In 
this case, all visible characters are deemed to be innocent.
The Detective rounds their character tokens Innocent side up, without 
changing their location.
The Witness card is placed Invisible side up next to the gameboard and 
remains that way throughout the next round.
Note: if Jack is invisible at the end of a round, and only then, he can try to leave the area 
during the following round. If he manages to do so, he wins the game.
III Shutting a gaslight off
While the night lasts, several gaslights are shutting off, one by one. Take the lit gaslight tile with the number of the current 
round and put the tile away for the rest of the game. (Only four gaslight tiles are numbered. They are the gaslight 1, 2, 3, and 4. 
So no gaslight is shut off during the last four rounds). The round counter shows with symbols which gaslight is shut off at the 
end of each round.
IV End of round
When all the steps described above have been completed, the next round can begin.
Move the round counter token one step toward the upper side of the board.
Note: the character cards are only reshuffled at the end of even-numbered rounds.
End of game
There are THREE possible ways to end a game:
Jack leaves the district
Jack succeeds in moving his character out of the district, by taking the token through an exit that is not cordoned 
off by the police. Jack wins the game.
Reminder: this is only possible if the Witness card is showing its Invisible side during the round.

The detective catches Jack
The detective moves a character onto the same hex as Jack and confronts him: 
	
If the accusation is right: the detective wins the game.
	
If the accusation is wrong: Jack wins the game by taking advantage of the confusion caused by this miscarriage of 
justice to escape!
Jack is not caught
At the end of the eighth round, if Jack is not caught, he wins the game!
 
The characters and their uses
There are eight different characters. Each character,when used, must move and/or use a Special ability. The symbols on the 
card indicate what the special ability of each character is and when it must (or can) be used. 
The silver circle shows the possible movement of the character. 	
The golden circle shows the ability of the character. The shape of the area shows when the ability is to be used:
the ability MUST be used before or after a 
movement 
the ability MUST be used at the end of a 
movement 
the ability CAN be used instead of a movement	
the ability CAN be used during a movement
Sherlock Holmes: Movement 1 to 3 hexes THEN ability use 
The best private detective in the world is on the scene of course, in order to solve the most famous mystery
Special ability (MANDATORY): AFTER MOVEMENT, Sherlock Holmes secretly draws the first card from the 
alibi pile and places it face down in front of him.
John H. Watson: Movement 1 to 3 hexes THEN ability use
Doctor Watson is the faithful sidekick and chronicler of Sherlock Holmes.
Special ability (MANDATORY): Watson bears a lantern, pictured on his character token. 
This lantern illuminates all the characters standing straight ahead of him!! (It is important to note that Watson 
himself is not illumated by the lantern!!)
Any player moving Watson, one way or another, chooses the final facing of the character, and therefore the line 
illuminated by the lantern.
John Smith: Movement 1 to 3 hexes AND ability use
This city lamplighter is in charge of the gaslights that keep on shutting off. 
Special ability (MANDATORY): Move one of the lit gaslight tiles onto one of the shut-off gaslight hex.
Inspector Lestrade: Movement 1 to 3 hexes AND ability use
This very good sleuth from Scotland Yard was sent to put an end to Jack’s crimes.
Special ability (MANDATORY): Move one police cordon. This will free one of the exits but block another!!
Miss Stealthy: Movement 1 to 4 hexes WITH optional ability use
Women are frequently abused in this district and Miss Stealthy is one of the very first fighting to improve the 
lot of her kind.
Special ability (OPTIONAL): During her movement, Miss Stealthy can cross any hex (building, 
gaslight, garden) but she must stop her movement on a street hex.

Sergeant Goodley: Movement 1 to 3 hexes AND ability use (whistle)
He has a loud whistle that can direct other investigators towards him.
Special ability (MANDATORY): Sergeant Goodley calls for help with his whistle!! You then get 3 movement 
points to use as you see fit on one or several characters in order to bring them closer to Sergeant Goodley!!
Sir William Gull: Movement 1 to 3 hexes OR ability use
The physician of the queen was sent by Her Majesty to lend a hand to the police.
Special ability (OPTIONAL): Instead of moving normally William Gull, you can exchange this character’s 
location with the location of any other character.
Jeremy Bert: Movement 1 to 3 hexes AND ability use
Reporter for the STAR, he invented the name «Jack.»
Special ability (MANDATORY): Journalists like to search where it stinks... Jeremy Bert opens a manhole and 
closes another (move one covered manhole tile on any other open manhole hex.)
Use of tokens or special hexes
Street hexes/Obstacle hexes
The light grey hexes and those with a manhole are street hexes. 
The others are buildings: they cannot be crossed except by Miss Stealthy.
Police cordon
Two police cordons are placed on two of the four exits of the districts. As long as these cordons 
are in place there, no one can leave the district using this exit.
Open manhole hex/covered manhole tile
When a token stands on (or moves through) an open manhole, he/she can, for 1 movement 
point, go to any other hex with an open manhole. 
The covered manhole tiles prevent any entry or exit in the sewers.
Note that the small arrows enable you to see that it’s a manhole cover, even if there’s a character token on it.
Shut-off gaslight hex/lit gaslight tile
The gaslights are lit when a lit gaslight tile is placed on them. They illuminate all the adjoining street hexes. If there is no lit 
gaslight tile on the hex, then the gaslight is shut-off.
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
When I use a character, can I leave it on its starting point?
No!! When a character is used, it must move at least one hex and cannot end his movement on the same hex from which it started.
When I move a character, can I cross hexes on which another character is standing? 
Yes!! The characters do not block movement. But ending movement on a hex on which another character stands is not 
possible, unless the detective means to accuse a character!!!
When I use a character, do I have to use his/her ability?
Most of the abilities are mandatory. In this case, you have to use it, whether you like it or not.
The only optional abilities are those of Sir William Gull, – who can exchange his location with another character 
instead of moving – and of Miss Stealthy – who can cross obstacles during her movement.
Can Watson use his lantern to illuminate a character on the other side of an obstacle?
No!! The obstacles (shut-off gaslights, gardens, buildings) stop the ray of light from Watson’s lantern.
Reminder: Watson doesn’t illuminate himself. He can be in the darkness and illuminate other characters.

What happens if the detective guesses who Jack is but doesn’t manage to catch him before the end of the last round?
Jack is lucky... His real identity is uncovered, but it is too late and he has managed to flee. Jack wins the game.
Is it possible, for one of the players, to make characters other than Jack leave the district?
No!! Only the player playing Jack is allowed to move a character outside the district by an unblocked exit. And this 
character must be Jack!!
Can Jack leave the area during the first round?
No. In order to leave the area, Jack must be invisible. The first Call for Witnesses only occurs at the end of the first round. 
Therefore, Jack cannot leave during the first round.
If I play Jack, what is the point of using Sherlock Holmes ability?
Even if you play Jack, using Sherlock Holmes allows you to draw an alibi card. The character you get in this way cannot be 
proved innocent by the detective except through deduction... which makes the investigation harder!!
Is it possible to use the sewers to take characters closer to Goodley when using his whistle?
No!! The movement to get closer must take place «above ground» and without any use of a special ability!! 
Is it possible to use Goodley’s special ability to bring Jack’s token on another character and then accuse him?
No!! To accuse a character, the investigator must move over Jack’s hex, and not the opposite.
Using Goodley’s whistle to bring the suspect closer is allowed, and it can then allow a character to accuse him after that.
What does «bringing characters closer to Goodley» exactly mean? 
All characters moved with Goodley’s ability must end their movement on a hex closer to Goodley than the one which they 
started. (The distance between two hexes is calculated by the number of street hexes, not as the crow flies.)
Is it possible to close or open a manhole under a character?
Yes!! The manholes can open and/or close under a character’s feet (in fact, although on the same hex, the character is «next» 
to the manhole, it only allows access to the underground sewers depending on their state). 
Is it possible to make a character enter or exit the sewers by a manhole on which another character is standing?
Yes!! But stopping on the hex is not allowed, except for accusation.
Can players play side by side?
Yes!! The players can also choose to play side by side.
This allows them both to see the district picture in the upright position. In this case, the detective sits on the right, next to the 
vertical yellow edge, while Jack sits on the left, next to the vertical grey edge.
You can contact us through our website: www.hurricangames.com, we will gladly answer you.
Translator: Gavin Wynford Jones
Warning: Chocking hazard - Small parts. Not for children 
under 3 years. Please retain this information.