The Rules of the 1. edition MR. 
PRESIDENT from 1965 
<< The Chalkboard Version >> 
 

 HOW TO PLAY MR. PRESIDENT 
 
 
CAMPAIGN PROMISES, BILLBOARDS, NEWSPAPER ADS, 
RADIO SPEECHES, TV DEBATES, PLANE TOURS, TRAIN 
TOURS, BUS TOURS, THE FARM VOTE, THE WOMEN´S 
VOTE, LABOR BACKING, BUSINESS BACKING, FULL 
PARTY BACKING...if you play your cards right(as you 
attempt to win a majority of electoral votes) you may 
become ”MR. PRESIDENT”! 
 
In the NATIONAL CAMPAIGN version of this exciting, new 
presidential campaign and election game, from two to four 
players (candidates) enter directly into a national election, 
and the candidate who wins a majority of electoral votes 
(Electoral Cards) becomes Mr. President ! In the NOMINEE 
version, four players (nominees) are split into Republican 
and Democratic parties for a pre-election PARTY CONVEN-
TION game to dertermine each party´s presidential and 
vice-presidential candidates for the national election, and 
the candidates of the party winning the election (second 
game) become Vice President and Mr. President ! 
 
 
 
SETUP 
THE 52 CAMPAIGN CARDS are sorted, by color, into 4 
identical sets of 13 cards each. Each player receives one set of 
cards which he holds in his hand during the play of the game. 
 
INFORMATION CARDS, which list the electoral votes of each of 
the States (plus the district of Columbia), are distributed one to 
each player. 
 
THE 51 ELECTORAL CARDS, representing each of the States 
plus the district of Columbia, are color-keyed by size of vote: 
brown, 3-5 votes each; green, 6-10 votes; blue, 11-20; and red, 
21 and over. The full deck is shuffled by one of the players and 
placed face down in the horizontal compartment of the card 
holder (which has been placed in the center of the table). 
 
One player is choosen as scorekeeper; he keeps a running tally 
of the Election Results (electoral votes) on the chalkboard, and 
also turns up the cards from the Electoral Deck. 
 
Players decide which version of the game they wish to play, and 
the presidential campaign gets underway. 
PLAY 
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN VERSIONS 
SHORT CAMPAIGN 
Four cards from the top of the Electoral Deck are turned up, one 
at a time, and placed face up in each of the four compartments 
on the opposite side of the card holder. Candidates scan these 
cards, mentally noting which states they represent, while 
scorekeeper totals the number of electoral votes they represent. 
Scorekeeper announces total vote count and each candidate 
decides which of his Campaign Cards he will play from his hand 
for these votes. Each candidate places his selected card (or 
cards) face down on the table and all candidates turn up their 
cards simultaneously. 
 
 During any one of the 12 rounds of play, a candidate may 
play 
 two Campaign Cards. It is up to him to decide just when it is 
 most advantageous to play two cards. (When a candidate 
has 
 taken advantage of his opportunity to play two cards, score- 
 keeper chalks a ”2” behind his name on the chalkboard.) 
 
The candidate or Party playing the card(s) with the greatest 
point value wins (scores) that round. Score (total votes shown 
on the four Electoral Cards) is recorded under winner´s name on 
the board. Played Campaign Cards are discarded face down on 
the table and may not be replayed. 
 
 Four more cards are turned up and placed on top of each of 
the cards from the previous round; the candidate or Party 
scoring in the previous round must be first to produce his (or 
their) card(s), face down; all candidates turn up their cards 
simultaneously, win-ner´s votes are recorded, and played 
Campaign Cards are discarded. 
 
 This procedure is repeated for a total of 10 rounds. Five cards 
are turned up in the 11th round, and six in the 12th round. 
 
 The average number of electoral votes is approximately 42 in 
the 
 first 10 rounds, 53 in the 11th, and 63 in the 12th. Concidering 
this 
 should help each candidate or Party to decide each time which 
 Campaign Card(s) to play. 
 
In case of a tie for electoral votes, winner is determind in the 
succeeding round, as follows: Four more cards are turned up 
and placed on the table next to the unscored cards in the 
cardholder; all candidates play as usual for the votes on the 
cards just played. 
Tying candidates (or Parties) turn up their cards first, and 
whoever has played the highest value card(s) wins the 
previously ”tied” votes (cards in holder), which are then recorded 
on the board. 
Remaining candidates turn up their cards and all candidates vie 
for the votes on the cards which are placed on the table. 
 
 After 12 rounds of play, scores are totalled and the candidate 
or Party with the electoral vote majority wins the election. 
 
 If no candidate or Party wins a majority of electoral votes (270 
or more), the game must be replayed. Optional: If so decided at 
the start of the game, the candidate or Party with a plurality 
(most) of electoral votes may be declared the winner. 
 
LONG CAMPAIGN 
The long version of Mr. President is played in the same manner 
as the short version, with these exceptions: 
 One Electoral Card is turned up and placed face up on top of 
the deck: each candidate plays his Campaign card (or cards) for 
the votes shown on the one card. Votes are recorded under 
winner´s name (candidate or Party) on the board, and the 
Electoral card is removed from the deck and placed in the 
winner´s compartment on the opposite side of the cardholder. 
(Compartments are assigned to candidates or Parties in the 
same order as their names appear on the Election Results 
chalkboard.) 
 Candidates stack their ”discarded” Campaign Cards in front of 
them on the table. As each player depletes his hand, he picks 
up all 13 of his ”discards” and replays them. (Each candidate will 
play his hand 4 times during the game.) Each player may play 
two Campaign Cards only once during the entire game. If he 
wishes to play two cards but has only one remaining in his hand, 
a candidate must play the one card only - since he may not pick 
up his ”dis-cards” until his entire hand is depleted. 
 When the Electoral Deck is depleted, the scores are totalled 
and the candidate or Party with a majority of electoral votes 
wins. 
 
NOMINEE VERSION 
In the NOMINEE version of Mr. President, which requires four 
players, play commences as for the NATIONAL CAMPAIGN 
(short or long version), with the following exceptions. 
 
PARTY CONVENTIONS 
Republican and Democratic party members are determined by 
the players´ political affiliations (or by lot or coin-flip) and players 
split into two groups. Electoral Cards are used simultaneously 
by both parties, with each group playing separately (i. e., the 
nominees of one party competing with one another for each 
vote, while the nominees of the opposing party do the same). 
Winning nominee from each party becomes a presidential 
candidate for the national election; nominees with a vote 
minority become vice-presidential candidates. 
 
(NATIONAL CAMPAIGN) 
The two parties sit on opposite sides of the table. Since the 
candi-dates may not confer while the game is in session, each 
party has a 5-minute pre-game parley to decide how they will 
play as a team (when to play high cards, etc.). During play, each 
party is per-mitted to recess for another 5-minute parley to 
decide whether or not to continue their pre-game strategy. 
 Each party is listed in a separate column on the chalkboard, 
and scorekeeper must keep a running total of each party´s 
votes. Each candidate plays one Campaign card (or two; see 
SHORT CAM-PAIGN, paragraph 2) per round, and the party 
playing the cards with the greatest combined point value wins 
(scores) that round. First party to score a majority of electoral 
votes (270) wins the election, and its candidates become Vice 
President and Mr. President. 
Copyright @ 1965 by MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTORING COMPANY 

The Rules of the 2. edition MR. 
PRESIDENT from 1965 
<< The Dial-Type Version >> 
 

 HOW TO PLAY MR. PRESIDENT 
 
 
CAMPAIGN PROMISES, BILLBOARDS, NEWSPAPER ADS, 
RADIO SPEECHES, TV DEBATES, PLANE TOURS, TRAIN 
TOURS, BUS TOURS, THE FARM VOTE, THE WOMEN´S 
VOTE, LABOR BACKING, BUSINESS BACKING, FULL 
PARTY BACKING...if you play your cards right(as you 
attempt to win a majority of electoral votes) you may 
become ”MR. PRESIDENT”! 
 
This exciting, new presidential campaign and election game 
can be played by two to four players (candidates). The 
candidate who has the majority of popular votes or 
electoral votes at the end of the game becomes Mr. 
President ! Players may find it challenging to play by both 
the popular vote and electoral vote method to see if the 
candidate with the greatest popular vote always wins the 
most electoral votes. 
 
 
SETUP 
THE 52 CAMPAIGN CARDS are sorted, by color, into 4 
identical sets of 13 cards each. Each player receives one set of 
cards which he holds in his hand during the play of the game. 
 
INFORMATION CARDS, which list the electoral votes of each of 
the States (plus the district of Columbia), are distributed one to 
each player. 
 
THE 51 STATE CARDS (including the District of Columbia) are 
color-keyed by size of electoral vote. The full deck is shuffled by 
one of the players and placed face down on the table. 
 
 One player is choosen as scorekeeper; he writes each 
candidate´s name on the Election Scoreboard and keeps a 
running tally of the Election Results (votes). 
 
 Players decide wether to play by popular vote or electoral vote 
and the presidential campaign gets under way. 
 
PLAY 
In each round the top State Card is turned up and candidates 
check either the Popular Vote Chart or the State Chart (for 
electoral vote) noting the number of votes possible for this state.
 
Each candidate decides which of his Campaign Cards he 
wishes to play for these votes and places his selected card 
(cards) face down on the table. All candidates turn up their cars 
simultaneously. 
 
POPULAR VOTE 
The candidate playing the card (cards) with the greatest point 
value wins the first place vote shown for that state; the 
candidate playing the second highest card (cards) places 
second, etc. Scores for each candidate are added to his total 
and the result is dialed on the Election Scoreboard. (Turn the 
knobs so the correct total appears in the window. The last three 
digits of the vote are not added.) 
 
If candidates tie for first place vote on the first State card, the 
card is buried in the deck and the Campaign Cards are replaced 
in each candidate´s hand. Later, if there are ties for first place 
vote, the Close Vote Column is used by all tying candidates; the 
tying candidate with the lowest total on the Election Scoreboard 
gets first place vote, candidate with second lowest total takes 
second place vote, etc. All other candidates on this round 
receive the regular vote according to how they placed. Ties for 
places other than first are resolved by lot or coin-toss. 
 
 When four candidates are playing, the Close Vote column is 
used if the Campaign Cards played in a round have no more 
than a 30-point spread between the highest and lowest card. 
(When three play, the spread can be no greater than 20 points, 
for two players, 10 points.) 
 
 When the State Deck is depleted, the candidate with the most 
votes becomes Mr. President ! 
 
ELECTORAL VOTE 
The candidate playing the card (cards) with the greatest point 
value 
wins the electoral votes for that state. He is given the State Card 
and the votes are added to his total on the Election Scoreboard. 
If there is a tie for first place, the State Card is buried in the deck 
and the Campaign Cards for that round are replaced in each 
candidate´s hand. 
 
 When the State Deck is depleted, the candidate with the 
majority (270 or more) of electoral votes becomes Mr. President. 
 
 At any time during the game a candidate may play two 
Campaign Cards; it is up to him to decide if he would be 
advantageous to play two cards. A candidate who plays two 
cards a round more than one time during the game will be out of 
cards before the game ends and will be unable to play a card for 
votes in the remaining states as each candidate is allowed to 
replay his hand only four times. When a candidate plays two 
cards, he places them face down on the table so that all players 
may see he is playing two cards. All candidates turn up their 
cards simultaneously with the candidate who played two cards 
turning up only one of his cards. At this time a candidate who 
played only one card may play a second card in hopes of getting 
first place. All candidates who have played a second card turn 
them up simultaneously and the candidate with the highest total 
value for that round wins first place. 
 
 During a round in which each player has played only one card, 
a candidate may attempt an upset vote after all cards have been 
turned up. All ties must be resolved before the upset is 
attempted. The candidate wishing to accomplish the upset 
selects another Campaign Card from his hand and places it face 
down on the table. The first place winner for that round has the 
option of also playing another card to stop the upset. If the first 
place winner´s cards total more than the upsetting player´s, the 
votes are dis-tributed in the usual manner. If the upsetting player 
has the higher total, the upset is accomplished and the 
candidate who originally had placed fourth in that round now 
places first, the candidate previously placing third now places 
second, etc. 
 
 Played Campaign Cards are discarded face down on the table. 
As each candidate depletes his hand, he picks up all 13 of his 
“discards” and replays them. If a candidate wishes to play two 
cards but has only one remaining in his hand, he may play only 
the one card - since he may not pick up his “discards” until after 
the round has been completed. Each candidate replays his hand 
four times. 
 
OPTIONAL: Candidates playing by popular vote may wish to 
keep track of electoral votes to see if the candidate placing first 
in the popular election would also receive the most electoral 
votes. 
 
SHORT VERSION 
This version is played in the same manner as the regular game 
with the exception that four State Cards are turned up at a time 
for a total of 10 rounds. In the 11th round, five cards are turned 
up, and in the 12th, six cards. 
 
Copyright @ 1965 by MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY 
C-B200R-66 

************************************************ 
Differences between the rules of the two versions 
************************************************ 
The following changes were made in the 2. edition: 
- The game is more complicated than the 1. edition 
- There is no longer the NOMINEE VERSION (No Vice-President !) 
- The POPULAR VOTE and the LONG CAMPAIGN is now the standard version 
- There is a special dial-type Election Scoreboard for the popular votes 
- Ties a resolved with a special Close Vote Column 
- A candidate may play two cards as often as he wants