This collection contains four unusually great card games. The games are called: MÜ, NJET, Was
sticht?, and Meinz. Each of these games is a trick-taking game. At the beginning, there is a short
description of the most important terms, which occur often in the rules for the games. If you are
familiar with trick-taking games, you can skip the introduction and go directly to the rules for the
specific games.
(160 cards)
64 number cards, 16 each in Blue, Yellow, Red, and Black (for MÜ and NJET):
3x0
2x1
1x2
1x3
1x4
1x5
1x6
4x7 
1x8 
1x9 
12 number cards in Green (for MÜ):
1x0 
2x1
1x2
1x3
1x4
1x5 
1x6 
2x7 
1x8 
1x9 
1 game board for NJET
5 player cards
3 summary cards for MÜ
20 NJET markers

The following descriptions generally apply to trick-taking games. Deviations in these rules are
specially noted with the rules for each game.
Trick-taking games are card games. With such games, the basic goal is to use your own cards to
take cards from your opponents. Each player receives the same number of cards at the
beginning. In each round, each player (according to certain rules) plays a card face up on the
table. These played cards are the "trick".
After the first player in the round plays a card, then all other players, if they can, must play a card
of the same color as the first card of the trick on the table. If a player does not have a card of the
right color, then he may play any other card (a trump card or just a card of another color).
Normally all colors are considered equal, with exception of the trump color. The player, who
played the highest card in the color first played in the round usually wins the "trick", taking all
cards played this round and placing them face down in his play area (the space before him on
the table). Once a new round begins, players may not examine tricks from previous rounds
during the game. Players may only examine the last trick, and this before the next round begins.
The player who wins a trick, plays the first card in the next round.
A "trump" means that one of the colors or a number has a higher strength when determining the
winning card on a trick than other colors or numbers. This trump color or number is higher in
value than the other colors and numbers. If no trump is played on a trick, the rules for
determining the winning card are the same as if playing without trump. Generally, a player may
not play a trump card if he can play a card of the color first played on the trick. If a player has
several cards of the color first played on the trick, he need not play a card with high value. A
player is not required to try to win a trick if he chooses not to.
36 number cards
24 function cards
back sides 
(1-9 in 4 colors for
(= point cards for Meinz)
Was sticht? and Meinz)
5 Trump color cards 
10 Trump number cards

Stefan Dorra
For 2-5 players 
aged 10 and up
length: 30 minutes
For this game, you need: paper and pen,
1 game board 
5 player cards
60 number cards
(number cards: 15 each in 4 colors: 3x0, 1x1, 1x2, 1x3, 1x4, 1x5, 1x6, 4x7, 1x8, 1x9)
The players are divided in two teams and each team tries to to win as many tricks as possible
and, thus, score points for winning them. Before each round, the players choose together, which
color will be trump and how many points a trick will be worth. In clockwise order, each player
takes turns placing one NJET marker on one of the spaces on the board to eliminate that option
for this game. For example, when a player places a NJET marker on the red trump space, he
eliminates red as trump for this game. 
Place the game board in the middle of the table and the NJET markers beside it. Each player
selects a player card and places it face up in his play area. With fewer than 5 players, place NJET
markers on the player cards pictured on the game board that match those not selected by the
players. With 3 players, remove 12 cards from the deck (see page 7). With 2, 4, and 5 players,
use all 60 cards in the deck.
One player is chosen to keep score and he uses paper and pen to do so, noting the scores for
each player after each round. The players choose a starting dealer who shuffles the cards
thoroughly and deals all card to the players, each receiving the same number of cards.
20 NJET-
markers

NJET Phase
Each player looks at his hand (secretly) and plans how he will play NJET markers to influence the
game conditions in his favor. Starting with the dealer, each player takes turns covering one space
on the game board with a NJET marker. If a player has, for example, only a few blue cards, he might
cover the unicorn (blue) space with a NJET marker, eliminating blue as a possibility for trump in
this round. Players continue placing NJET markers, one at a time, in clockwise order, until there is
exactly one uncovered space in each row on the game board. Exactly one space on each row must
remain uncovered.
The game board
Each row of the game board determines which conditions the current round is being played
under. The uncovered space in each row, indicates the condition:
Row 1: who is the starting player
Row 2: how many cards are cached, if any
Row 3: what color is trump, if any
Row 4: what is the supertrump, if any
Row 5: how many points per trick
Row 1 – Starting player: the starting player chooses his partner(s) for this round. The
remaining players are the opposing team. The starting player then plays the first card to the first
trick. Find detailed information for choosing game partners on page 7.
Row 2 – Cache: before the first round, each player chooses cards from his hand to cache. If
the selected condition is one of the first 3, the player discards 1 or 2 cards out of the game. They
are not used in the game nor do they count at game end. If the space with the crossed out “0” is
selected, the players discard 2 cards, but may not discard a value 0 card. Cards are discarded
face down. If the space with 2 cards and the arrow is selected, each player gives 2 cards to his
right neighbor, simultaneously. If the NJET space is chosen, no cards are cached.
Row 3 – Trump: whichever space is not covered is the trump color: red, black, blue, or yellow.
If the NJET space is uncovered, no color is trump!
Row 4 – Super trump: Super trump are the three value 0 cards of the color chosen. If the NJET
space is uncovered, there is no Super trump.

Row 5 – Points (per trick): the numbers of the cards are not counted. Players earn points for
each trick won and for each captured 0 from their opponents. The red diamonds indicate the
players lose 2 point per trick or captured 0 card. 
Playing the Game
The game is played over several rounds. Each round has two phases: the NJET phase and the
trick-taking phase. In the NJET phase, the players select the condistions that will govern the
trick-taking phase. 
Example for a game with 5 players:
In the first row, the first space is
uncovered, so turquoise is the starting
player. He chooses to be in a 3-team with
lilac and orange. As a member of the
smaller team, Green takes the monster
card. As the NJET space is uncovered in the
second row, no cards are cached. Black is
trump and the blue 0’s are supertrump.
Each trick and each captured 0 is worth 2
points. 
The trick-taking phase
After the starting player has selected his partner(s) and all players have cached their cards as
required, the starting player starts the first trick by playing a card from his hand face up on the
table. 
The other players follow in clockwise order, each playing one card from their hands to the trick.
The following rules apply to the playing of cards:
- The color of the first card played must be used, if possible.
- If a player does not have a card of the same color as the first card played, he may play any
card (including trump or super trump).
- If trump or super trump is the same color as the first card played, it must be played.
Who wins the trick?
• The card with the highest value in the first-played color wins the trick, unless the trick also
contains trump or super trump cards.
When several cards of the same color and value are played to a trick, the last of those
played is the highest (this is also true for trump and super trump).

• If there are several trump cards in the trick, the trump with the highest value wins the trick. 
• If there is a super trump in the trick, the highest (last) super trump wins the trick.
The player who wins the trick, puts all the cards from the trick face down in his play area. If a
player wins further tricks in the round, he places them also face down, but separate from each
other, so they may be easily counted. Finally, this player plays the first card to the next trick.
Captured 0’s?
All cards with value 0 played to a trick by opponents of the player who wins the trick are
“captured 0’s”. The player winning the trick, places these aside in a separate stack to count at
the end of the round. 0 cards from a player’s partner(s) are not captured 0’s. A trick may contain
up to three captured 0’s.
Example: the starting player (of the 3-player team) plays a green 9. Next, his partner plays
a green 0. The next to play is from the other team and he plays a green 4. Then, the second
player of the 2-player team trumps with a black 0 (trump), as he has no green cards left in
his hand. The last to play is the third player of the 3-player team. He also has no more green
cards in his hand and trumps with a black 7. This player wins the trick and collects all 5
cards. He puts the captured black 0 face up in his play area. Then he puts the other 4 cards
face down as a separate stack in his play area. He does not count the green 0 as a captured
card as it came from his partner.
Scoring
As soon as the players have no more cards in their hands (all tricks are played), the players score
the round. Each team counts the number of tricks they won (add together the number each
player on the team won) and their captured cards (again, added together for the team). Each
team multiplies its total by the trick mutiplier (row 5) to get the score for each player on the
team for this round. The result is noted separately for each player. See the sample score sheet on
page 24.
Example: the players of the 3-player team together won 7 tricks and captured 3 0’s. Since
each trick and each captured card are worth 2 points in this round, each player on this team
scores (7+3) x 2 = 20 points. One player of the 2-player team won 3 tricks and captured
no 0’s. The other player of the 2-player team won 2 tricks and captured 1 0. This player,
however, has the monster card, so his points count double. Since each trick and each
captured card are worth 2 points, each player on the 2-player team scores (3x2) + (3x2) x
2 = 18 points.
Alternatively, players can choose to record just the difference in scores. In this case, as the
3-player team scored 20 and the 2-player team scored 18, the difference is 2 points. Using
this scoring approach, each player on the 3-player team will score 2 points and each player
on the 2-player team will score 0 points.

A new round
After scoring, removed the NJET markers from the board. The left neighbor of the last dealer
becomes the new dealer. He shuffles all cards and deals them again as in the previous round. The
round continues with NJET phase, trick-taking phase, and scoring. The new dealer places the
first NJET marker.
With 2 and 4 players, the game is 8 rounds long. 
With 3 players, the game is 9 rounds long. With 5 players, the game is 10 rounds long.
This allows each player to be start player the same number of times in the game.
The player with the most points at the end is the winner. If players tie with the most points, those
tied rejoice in their shared victory!
Preparation and special features
Monster card
The monster card is used only in 3 and 5 player games. When a player plays alone against 2
players or when 2 players play against 3 players, a player from the smaller team takes the
monster card. The start player decides which player of the smaller team gets the monster card.
The moster card doubles the points earned by this player. 
5 players: use all 60 cards. Deal each player 12 cards. Play each round 3 players against 2
players. The start player decides whether he will play on the 2-player team or the 3-player team.
The start player also decides who will be on each team. He then gives one of the players on the
smaller team the monster card. The player with the monster card earns double points for his
team for each trick and captured 0 card. The game ends after 10 rounds. 
4 players: use all 60 cards. Deal 15 cards to each player. Play each round 2 players against 2
players. The start player decides who will be on each team. The game ends after 8 rounds. 
3 players: before the game, remove 12 cards from the deck: 3 7’s from each color. Deal 16
cards to each player. Play each round 2 players against 1 player. The start players decides
whether he will play on the 2-player team or the 1-player team. The start player also decides who
will be on each team. He then gives the player on the smaller team the monster card. The player
with the monster card earns double points for his team for each trick and captured 0 card. The
game ends after 9 rounds. 
2 players: use all 60 cards. Deal 15 cards to each player. Set aside the remaining 30 cards face
down for this round, but shuffle them back into the deck for the next round. Each round, thus,
has a different set of cards. The game ends after 8 rounds. 

Günter Burkhardt
For 3 or 4 players
aged 10 and up
length: 30 minutes
The following rules refer to the game with 4 persons. The rules for 3 players are on page 11.
For this game, you need:
36 number cards
24 point cards
monster card
(4 colors with values 1-9)
(8 each with value 1-3)
The goal of this unusual game is not so unusual: it is to collect most points. There are 8 rounds
and in each of these rounds point cards are distributed. There are 8 tricks in each round. The
special features of this game are that each player takes exactly 2 tricks per round and a player
can secure a trick by calling "Meinz". At the end of a round, it is the sum of the numbers in each
player’s two tricks that determines the outcome of the round. 
The players sort the point cards according to their values and place them face up in three
separate stacks: 1, 2, and 3. Choose a player to be first dealer. This player shuffles the 36 number
cards and deals 9 to each player, face down. 
Before the players begin the trick-taking, still each player looks at the cards in his hand and
selects one to return face down to the box. These cards are no longer needed this round. The
player left of the dealer begins.
The trick-taking
The taking of tricks is basically the same as the usual rules. The player who begins plays a card
face up on the table. The other player each play a card face up on the table in clockwise order.
After all have played a card, the trick is over and the players determine which player gets the
trick. 

When players play cards they follow the normal rules, but with one variance:
1. The player must play the color of the first card played in the trick, but the player may, instead,
play a card matching the number of the first card played in the trick. 
2. If a player cannot follow the above rule, he may play any card.
Example: Alex starts the trick with the red 5. Joe does not have red cards, but he does have
the yellow 5. Joe need not play the yellow 5, but may play any card. If Joe had red cards, he
would have had to play either a red card or a number 5 card.
Who wins the trick?
Basically, the player that played the lowest-valued card (regardless of color) gets the trick.
When two or more cards are the lowest, the later played card is the lower (again, regardless of
color). 
A player can also get a trick (secure it, as it were)simply by calling, "Meinz".
Here is how it works. The start player plays a card. Before the next player plays a card, the start
player can call: "Meinz" = “that is my trick”. When a player has called, “Meinz”, he will get the
trick, regardless of who plays the lowest-valued card on the trick.. He must take the trick,
regardless of what cards are played to it after he made the call. After calling, “Meinz”, the trick
continues with no changes in the rules of playing to a trick.
If the start player does not call, the next player plays his card and can now call, "Meinz". If he
calls, he gets the trick when it is done. If he does not call, the start player can again call, “Meinz”,
if he wants (he now knows 2 of the cards that will be on the trick). If neither the second nor the
first player call, play continues to third player. He plays a card and can call. If he does not call,
the first player can call and then the second player can call if the first does not. If neither calls,
the last player plays a card, but may not call, and neither can the other players.
What can the player do with the trick?
The player who won the trick, may exchange one of the cards in his hand with a card of the
same color from the trick. The player shows the others the cards he is exchanging. Then he
puts the trick face down in his play area.
Note: this exchange can be a very important tactical move. 
The player, who won the trick, plays the first card of the next trick. Thus, the tricks are played to
the end, when the players have no cards.
Special feature: each player must have taken exactly 2 tricks in the round!
Once a player has already taken 2 tricks in a round, he must play cards normally, but can take

no further trick. He may also not call, “Meinz”. If he would take a trick because he played the
lowest card, his card is not considered in determining who takes the trick. In this case, the player
with the second lowest card takes the trick. If the player with the second lowest card already has
2 tricks, the player with the third-lowest card takes the trick, and so on...
Point distribution
Each player has taken exactly 2 tricks. Each adds the values of the numbers on their cards. Then,
points are a distributed:
• The player with the highest sum takes a “3“ pount card.
• The player with the second highest sum takes a “1“ point card. 
• The player with the third highest sum takes nothing.
• The player with the lowest sum takes a “2“ point card.
Example: the players calculated the following sums and, thus, took the following point
cards:
Alex 51 
Joe 38
Günter 37
Hanna 31
as 
third highest 
gets nothing
If several players tie with the same sum, they receive nothing at all.
Example: Alex and Joe each have 40 points, Hanna has 39, and Günter has 34 points. as Alex
and Joe are tied with the highest sum, neither gets a point card. as there is a two-way tie for
highest, there is no second highest. Thus, Hanna is third highest and gets no point card.
Günter has the lowest sum and takes a “2“ point card.
In the second round, the left neighbor of the start player of the previous round becomes the new
start player. Thus 8 rounds are played, so that everyone was twice the start player.
The winner is the player who has the most points in the form of point cards. If several players tie
with the most points, each of those players rejoice in the shared victory.

The game with 3 players:
When playing with only three players, the card monster plays as the fourth player. The card
monster is dealt 9 cards face down (like the other players), but does not discard one. Thus, the
card monster will have one card left at the end of the round. 8 rounds are played, so that each
player (including the card monster) has two rounds of being the start player. 
The card monster plays the first card to the first round. The card monster always plays the top-
most card from his card stack to each trick, regardless of the normal rules of play. The card
monster gets the trick whenever it played the lowest card and no player called, “Meinz”. And,
once the card monster has 2 tricks, it takes no more!
If the first 6 tricks are taken by players, the card monster gets the last two tricks automatically.
During the point distribution, the card monster adds 12 points to the sum of the numbers on
its two tricks. 

Karl-Heinz Schmiel
For 3 or 4 players
aged 12 and up
length: 45 minutes
The following rules refer to the game with 4 persons. The rules for 3 players are on page 17.
For the game, you need the following cards:
36 number cards / back side
10 trump number cards
5 trump color cards 
(cards valued from 1-9 in 4 colors)
/ back side 
/ back side
24 function cards
(The numbers 1-3 on the back side 
have no meaning for this game.)
Was sticht? is - as the title says - a trick-taking game, but a very special one. The goal of the
game is to fulfill functions. At the beginning of the game, each player selects four functions, for
example: "no tricks" or "the last trick", which he must fulfill in the course of the game. In order
for players to have some control, the players select which four function cards they will try to fulfill
during the game.
Thus, for a player, the only thing that stands between him and victory: his “bad” opposing
players. The winner is the player who first fulfills all four of his functions.

The players select a start player. Place the function cards face up on the table for all to see. The
start player takes one and places it face up in his play area. In clockwise order, the players each
take one until each has four function cards. Return the unselected function cards to the box.
The function cards indicate which functions a player must fulfill in the game. The exact meanings
of the individual functions is on page 17 of the rules.
Playing the game
The game is played in rounds. The game lasts for as many rounds as it takes one player to fulfill
all four of his functions. Each round has 4 phases:
1. Choose cards
At the start of the round, the start player places the number
cards in rows and the players take turns taking the cards 
they will use in the round.
2. Choose functions
After learning the color and number trumps for the round, 
each player selects one of his functions to try to fulfill in the
round.
3. Trick-taking
The players play cards to each trick, with each player trying
to fulfill the function he selected for the round.
4. Round end
When all cards are played, the round ends. Players discard
any function cards they fulfilled and the start player passes to
a new player for the next round.
1. Choose cards
The players choose the cards themselves.
The start player takes the 36 number cards, the 5 trump color cards and the 10 trump number
cards and shuffles each group separately. 
The start player secretly looks at the bottom-most card of the “Trump color” and “Trump
number” stacks. The two cards represent the trump color and the trump number for the round.
The number trump is higher than the color trump. If the card "no trump color" or the card "no
trump number" is bottom-most, there is no trump color or no trump number for this round.
Now the start player deals the shuffled number deck into 9 rows of 4 cards each. The player to the
left of the start player takes the monster card. The players take the cards in clockwise order. 

The player with the monster card picks a
card from the first row and places it face up
in his play area. The other 3 follow in
clockwise order, each taking one card from
the first row. 
The start player now gives the other
players a “hint” about what the trumps
are by considering the four cards taken
from the row as a trick, with the monster
card player being the player who played
the first card. The start player now
indicates which player (card) would have
won the trick. At the beginning of the
round the start player is the only one who knows the trump cards, but by telling the others who
would win the “tricks”, the other players will start to learn what the trump cards are. Naturally,
they will use this knowledge when selecting cards later in the round.
The card monster player gives the monster card to his left neighbor, who becomes the new card
monster player. He begins by picking a card from the second row (now the top-most) and
placing it face up in his play area. The other 3 players follow in clockwise order, each taking a
card from the second row. The start player again tells the players who would win the trick and
the players have, perhaps, learned more about the trump cards from the start player. 
Example: (Trump color-red/Trump number-2) 
Alex has the card monster. Carsten is the start player (only he know the trump cards). In the
second row lie the following cards (it is the second set of card-taking in the round):
Alex takes the blue 7. (Up to now in the round, Alex has not been able to determine which
number or color is trump, so he merely takes the highest numbered card in the row.)
Bernhard takes the red 6. (He has already determined that red is the trump color, but does
not know the trump number, so he takes the highest red card.)
Carsten takes the red 2. (As start player, Carsten knows the trump number and color and,
so takes the red 2.)
Daniel takes the yellow 2. (Daniel must take it, as it is all that is left.)

Carsten now says, “Alex played the first card and Carsten would win the trick.” The start
player need not make further comments, especially he should not provide reasons (e.g.: “I
get the trick because my card is a number trump.”). The longer the other players are unclear
over the trump situation, the better for the start player.
After all cards are taken, the players take their selected cards into their hands, and the start
player turns the two stacks of trumps over, showing all what the color and number trumps are
for this round. 
2. Choose functions
Each player - with exception of the start player - selects one of his function cards: the one he
believes he can fulfill during this round. Each player selects his card secretly and, then, all are
revealed simultaneously. a player may discard his chosen function card at the end of the round
if he fulfills the function described on the card.
The start player does not select one of his own function cards. Instead, he must try to fulfill the
selected function of any other player. If this succeeds, he may discard any of his own function
cards. However, the start player may only discard a card if he fulfills a function that his fellow
player did not. If the function he fulfilled was fulfilled by the fellow player, the start player does
not discard a card. 
The start player does not have to commit himself, to which of his fellow players’ functions he
will try to fulfill. Sometimes he must modify his tactics during the round, because he can not
fulfill certain functions. 
3. Trick-taking
The tricktaking uses the usual trick-taking rules. They are again briefly summarized:
• The player to the left of the start players plays the first card.
• Each other player must add a card in clockwise order.
• A player must player a card of the color of the first card played to the trick if he can. A number
trump has no color as related to this rule. 
• The first card played is high. It can only be beaten by a higher card of same color or by a
trump card.
• If trump is the first card played, then all players must play trump if they can (color and
number trump are both considered trump, regardless of which was first played).
• If a player does not have a card of the color of the first played card, he may play any card. If
a trump is the first played card, the player must play a trump if he has one (color or number).
• The player who wins the trick, takes the cards, places them face down in his play area, and
plays the first card to the next trick.

There are 2 kinds of trump: number and color. The number trump is higher than the color
trump. Of the number trump, the highest trump is the card that is the same color as the color
trump. This card trumps all cards. The other number trump are all equal. Among them, the first
played on a trick is the highest.
Example: rank order of trump (trump color-red/trump number-5)
red 5 (Super trump), blue/green/yellow 5 (number trump), red 9, red 8,…, red 1 (color
trump).
When playing with no trump color/trump number - 5, the 5 cards are all equal, with the first
played to a trick being the highest. 
When playing with trump color-red/no trump number, only red cards are trump with the
highest being the 9 down to the lowest being 1, in number order. 
4. Round end
After each round, all players who fulfilled their functions, discard the fulfilled function cards.
Each player turns his remaining function cards face up. The start player may discard one function
card, if he fulfills the function of a fellow player, who did not fulfill his own function (see 2.
Choose functions). If the start player fulfilled several functions, and the respective fellow
players did not, the start player may discard, nevertheless, only one function card.
For the next round the start player changes to the player to the left of the player who was start
player in this round, so that each player has the chance to know the trump color and number
before the others. Of course, with the change in the start player, the card monster player changes:
always the player to the left of the start player takes the card monster and takes the first card.
The game ends as soon as a player fulfills all his 4 function cards. This player wins the game. If
several players fulfill their 4th function in the same round, they rejoice in their shared victory.

Special rules 3 players
With 3 players, use the same rules as with 4 players, but the taking of the number cards is
somewhat different. The 4th card in each row is taken by a dummy player and placed aside on
the “table”.
Lay out the 36 number cards in the same 4x9 pattern. The 3 player select cards from each row
as in the normal game. Place the remaining fourth card on the "table". When all cards have
been taken, return the “table” cards to the box. They are not used in this round. 
Description of the function cards
• No tricks
The player takes no trick in this round.
• No red cards
The player takes no red cards in his tricks this round. It 
matters not whether red is trump or not. He must, however,
take at least one trick! This description applies to the similar
functions for the other colors (e.g. no blue cards).
• Exactly 1 trick
The player must take exactly 1 trick in this round.
If he has fewer or more than 1, the function is not fulfilled. 
This description applies to the similar functions for the other 
numbers (e.g. exactly 2 tricks).
• The last trick
The player must take the last trick in the round. It matters not 
how many other tricks the player takes. 
• The most tricks
The player must take more tricks in this round than any other
single player. If another player takes more tricks or the same 
number of tricks, the function is not fulfilled. 
• The fewest tricks
The player must take fewer tricks in this round than any other
single player. If another player takes fewer tricks or the same 
number of tricks, the function is not fulfilled. 

Frank Nestel
For 4-6 players (optimal 5, 4)
aged 12 and up
length: 60 minutes
For this game, the following cards are used:
60 cards in 5 colors, each with 12 cards
back side of
3 summary cards
(numbers 0 to 9, plus 1 and 7 each twice)
all cards 
The goal is to score as many points as you can. Before the first trick of each hand, there is an
auction to determine who will choose trump. Players bid by placing cards face up on the table.
At the end of the auction, the two players who have bid the most cards become the chief and vice,
and each chooses one type of card to be trump. After all tricks have been taken for the hand,
each player scores the number of points shown on the cards he has won. In addition, the chief
and his partner may score bonus points. However, when the chief bids many cards in the auction,
it may become more difficult for him to win enough tricks to get the bonus points. If the chief
and his partner fail to take enough tricks, the chief will lose points!
The players choose a dealer who shuffles the 60 cards and deals them evenly face down to all
players. Place the 3 summary cards on the table so all players can consult at least one of them.
The Auction
Starting with the dealer and going clockwise around the table, each player may bid by placing
cards from his hand face up in his play area. The number of cards is the bid!
Bidding normally lasts over several rounds, with players possibly adding to their bids each round.
On a player’s turn, he may bid as many cards as he wants, but never so many that his total bid is
more that one card higher than the previous high bid. Thus, if a player is the highest bidder, he
may place only one further card. This is also true for the dealer who may only start the bidding
with one card. If he does place one card, the next player to bid may only place two cards, and
value of the card =
number of triangles

so on. Instead of placing a card, a player may pass. On his turn in a later round, he may again
place cards. Later bids need not raise, nor even tie the previous high bid. Players may choose to
overbid, underbid, or tie the highest bid.
Example 1: this is a typical auction.
Anna opens with one card, Beate passes,
Conny places one card, staying in the
auction without raising the bid. Dagmar
raises the bid by playing two cards.
Emma could now play up to three cards,
but passes . In the next round, Anna
places one card to match Dagmar’s bid.
Beate chooses to enter the auction, but
with just one card (an underbid), and
so on. In the last round, Emma is not
allowed to bid 1) as she was the first of
all players to pass. Thus, the auction is
over.
Auction end: the auction ends when all players pass in turn order with no intervening bids. The
players leave the cards they bid face up on the table, but will be used later as hand cards.
Chief and Vice
After the auction, if one player has bid (placed) more cards than any other player, he is the
Chief.
Example 2: after the auction in example 1, Dagmar is the Chief, as she bid more cards than
any other player (4 cards).
Stalemate: if, after the auction, no single player has bid the most cards (two or more tie with
the most), the hand ends in a stalemate.
The players who tied with the most cards bid each scores 5 points for each card bid. However,
the player among those tied with the highest bid who bid last (not passing) loses 10 points for
each card bid! The hand ends immediately and the players record their points (see page 22). If
all players pass in the first round, this is also a stalemate, but no points are gained or lost. 
Example 3: Had Dagmar in example 1 placed only one card on her last bid and then all
(including Dagmar) passed in turn order, Dagmar would have lost 30 points. Anna and
Conny would have scored 15 points each. Beate and Emma would have scored no points. 
Anna
Beate
Conny
Dagmar
Emma
passt
1)

If there is no stalemate, the hand has a chief and continues. The vice is the player with the
second-highest number of cards bid. If several players are tied for second, the one among
them with the highest numbered card is the vice. If there is still a tie, the tie is broken with the
second highest numbered card, then the third highest, and so on.
Example 4: in example 1, Conny is vice, as both she and Anna both placed 9 as their
highest cards, but Conny’s second-highest card is 8 while Anna’s is only 6.
In the rare case that no vice can be found (several players have the second-most cards bid and
the same numbered cards), there is no vice. There is also no vice if the chief is the only player
who bid.
Choose trump
First, the vice (if there is one) chooses one kind of trump. The chief will choose second. A
player must choose as trump either one color (e.g. red) or one number (e.g. five). The player
(either vice or chief) must choose from the colors and numbers he placed as bid cards.
Example 5: after the auction in example 1, Dagmar must choose green, blue, 1, 7, or 8 as
trump.
The chief now chooses trump, but unlike the vice may also choose to select no trump. In this
case, there is only the vice trump, or, if there is no vice, there is no trump at all. If the chief
chooses trump, his trump is higher than the vice trump. He makes this clear by declaring, for
example, “Green over red”, when he chooses green and the vice has chosen red.
The Chief team
The chief chooses a partner for this round from among his fellow players. The cards others bid
during the auction may help him decide who to choose, but he may not choose the vice as his
partner. The chief and his partner are know as the chief team.
The number of cards the chief bid determines the number of points (triangles on the cards) the
chief team must take in tricks: the more cards bid by the chief, the more points the chief team
must take. The number of points needed is shown in the smmary cards.
Example 6: in example 1, Dagmar bid four cards. As she is playing in a five-player game,
her team must take 33 points.

Trick-taking
The chief begins the round by playing any one of his cards. He can take a card either from his
hand or from those cards in his play area which were his bid. The others follow in clockwise
order, each adding one card to the trick, either from his hand or from his bid.
Play same color: on a player’s turn to play a card to a trick, he must play a card of the first
color played to the trick if he can (from his hand or play area). Which card of the color is up to
the player. If the player does not have that color, he may play any color he wants or play a trump.
Trump color: the chief and vice trumps combine together for one single large color (even when
one or both trumps are numbers) called the trump color. Thus, chief trump can be played when
vice trump is led and vice versa. If trump is led, players must play trump to the trick if they can.
If, for example, the number 6 is chosen as trump, the red 6 is not a red card, but is of the
trump color.
Trick: the player who played the card with the highest number on the trick of the color led wins
the trick. If one or more (or all) players played trump on the trick, the player who played the
trump card with the highest number wins the trick. The winner takes all the cards and places
them face-down in his play area.
Trump & rank: Chief trump cards are always higher than vice trump cards. (e.g. chief trump
0 is higher than all vice trump cards). Within a color, follow normal number rankings to
determine the highest card. When several cards of the same number are played, including trump,
the first played is always higher than later played.
Double trump: in a game with a color and a number as trump, a card with both the color and
number of trump is a double trump and higher than all other trump. When the numbers 7 or
1 are trump with a color as the other trump, there are two double trump!
After a player wins a trick and takes the cards, he plays the first card to the next trick (as long
as the players still have cards in their hands or bid cards on the table). When all hand and bid
cards have been played, the round ends and is scored. 

Scoring
There are two scores:
Single score: Each player scores the sum of the values (the 0, 1 or 2 triangles on the cards) of
the cards he has taken in the tricks.
Team score: add together the sums of the players on the chief team. If this total is equal to or
greater than the team goal (see summary card), the team has achieved their goal. Otherwise,
they have failed to reach their goal.
The bonus earned by a team that achieves its goal is based on the size of the chief’s bid and the
type of trump he chose. The hand is worth more bonus points when the chief bid more cards
and when he chose a trump with fewer cards. The chief and partner both score the bonus points
shown on the table for achieving the goal!
Example 7: had Dagmar (from example 6) with a bid of four cards chosen a color as
trump, the bonus for both her and her partner would be 40 points (if they achieved the goal
of taking 33 points in tricks together). If she had chosen the number 1 as trump, the bonus
would be 50 points.
Failed goal: when the chief team fails to achieve their goal, the players check the team goal table
(summary card) to find the highest bid that they would have achieved with the points they took.
If they took fewer points than a bid of 1 requires, use 0 as the bid. Then calculate the difference
between this bid and the chief’s actual bid. Each player not on the chief team scores 5 points
multiplied by this difference. The chief loses 10 points multiplied by this difference. The chief’s
partner scores no points (neither gains nor loses points).
Example 8: Dagmar and Anna (the chief team) in a five-player game with Dagmar’s bid
of 4, must take together 33 points in tricks. In this hand, Dagmar took 20 trick points and
Anna took only 9, for a total of 29. Thus, they achieved a goal for a bid of 2 instead of 4,
yielding a difference of 2. Dagmar loses 20 points (2 x 10), and Beate, Conny, and Emma
each score 10 points (2 x 5). Dagmar’s partner Anna scores nothing extra, but also loses
nothing. If Dagmar and Anna had together only 23 or fewer trick points, the difference
would be 4.
Recording points
The players record both their single and team points with paper and pencil and add them
together, along with points received in previous hands. The game ends when one or more players
reach a pre-determined score (e.g. 200 points results in a game of about an hour). The player
with the most points is the winner! If the end is not reached, the players play another hand with
the left neighbor of the dealer as the new dealer.

Tip: a player will want to bid to be chief or vice when he has many cards of the same number or
color. It also helps to have other strong cards.
Players bid to be chief or vice, but also to invite the eventual chief to select them as his partner!
For the last, players will find the underbid very useful as the chief will always be interested in a
strong partner with at least some of his trump. Bluffing is not often useful, as it will discourage
future partnerships.
We hope you enjoy this product. If you have comments, questions, 
or suggestions, please write us at
Rio Grande Games, PO Box 45715, Rio Rancho, NM 87174, USA
www.riograndegames.com, E-Mail: rRioGames@aol.com
© AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, D-63128 Dietzenbach, MMVII
Version 1.0