OVERVIEW
After a long journey, you have finally arrived in a new land. You immediately start building and developing 
your city.
My City is a legacy game. This means that the game will change and evolve as you play. You and your fellow 
players will all have your game boards, which you will redesign in every episode. Each series of three episodes forms 
a chapter. And for each chapter, there is a sealed envelope containing new rules and a variety of materials that make 
it easy to change the game as you go along. In 24 fascinating episodes, you will experience the rise and the history 
of your city from its very beginning through industrialization.
In addition, on the other side of the game board, you will find a version that you can play over and over again. You 
will find the rules for that on pages 6 and 7 of this rulebook.
Would you like the game 
to be explained instead of 
reading the rules? Then 
download the free Kosmos 
Helper App.
Rulebook
A game by Reiner Knizia
for 2-4 players, ages 10 and up
Download the Helper App
Learn to Play

4 two-sided game boards 
My City is most appealing if the same group of players play and experience all the chapters together.
If you want to continue the game with different players, the new players will have to pick up where their predecessors 
left off and continue accordingly.
After each episode, note where you have stopped. That way, you can easily continue the next episode when you resume.
Each of the 24 episodes can be played on its own. However, the game was designed so that three episodes combine to form 
a thematic chapter. Gameplay for each chapter is about 90 minutes and is best enjoyed when played in a single sitting.
Important: No matter how curious you may be, do not open the sealed envelopes until you are playing the corresponding 
chapter.
24 Construction cards 
96 Playing Pieces (four sets, with eight buildings in three 
colors in each set.)
8 Envelopes with 
 game materials
4 Scoring tokens 
GAME MATERIALS
During the game you will also need something to write with, such as a ball-point pen, for writing and drawing on your game boards.

GAME SETUP
•	 Before starting the first episode, carefully remove all die-
cut pieces from their frames. 
•	 Each player gets one game board and 
places it with the front side, which 
has an animal symbol at the upper 
left, face up in front of himself or herself. That will be the 
player’s personal game board for all 24 episodes. At the 
start, all game boards are identical. But during the course 
of the game, each player will be changing the game board. 
You will be applying stickers, developing new playing areas, 
and writing on the board. Don’t worry: That’s how it is 
meant to be played. After all, it’s your board. Right at the 
beginning, you will want to give your city a name. Write it 
in the space at the top, right next to the animal symbol. 
•	 Each player gets a scoring token and sets it on the number 
10 of his or her board’s scoring track. 
This scoring token is used to indicate your points 
during the episode and, most importantly, at the 
end of the episode. 
•	 Each player gets the 24 playing pieces (simply called 
“buildings” from now on) showing that player’s animal 
symbol on the back side. Just like the game boards, each 
player’s collection of buildings is otherwise identical. Place 
your buildings face up next to your game board (animal 
symbol face down). There are three types of buildings: 
residential (yellow), public (red), and industrial (blue). 
•	 Shuffle the 24 construction cards and place them in a 
single deck face down in the middle of the table. For each 
building, there is a corresponding construction card. In 
each episode, you will construct your buildings in the 
sequence shown on the construction cards as they are 
turned over. 
GENERAL RULES OF THE GAME
There are a few rules that — with a few exceptions — apply 
to all 24 episodes:
Each episode consists of a number of rounds. In each round, 
you will turn over the top construction card of the face-down 
deck and place it face up in a discard pile. Each player takes the 
building matching the one depicted on the construction card 
and places it on his or her game board. No delay or waiting is 
allowed. All players place their buildings at the same time. 
At the end of each episode, you get points for your buildings, 
which you mark on your scoring track. Whoever gets the most 
or second-most points in an episode is allowed to color in two or 
one progress symbols, respectively. These progress symbols appear 
as circles in two rows at the top edge of the game board. The 
player who has colored in the most progress symbols after 
24 episodes is the overall winner of My City.
THE CONSTRUCTION RULES
•	 Buildings may only be built on light green spaces.
•	 They may not be built in the mountains 
(gray spaces on the left) or the forest (dark green spaces 
on the right). 
•	 Light green spaces with rocks or trees shown on them 
may be built upon. However, it is best to avoid building 
on light green spaces with trees if you can, because 
visible tree spaces will get you points at the end of each 
episode. Spaces with rocks should, on the other hand, 
be built upon whenever possible. If these are not covered 
with buildings at the end of the episode, points will be 
deducted.
•	 A building may not be placed on the river in such a way 
that it lies on both sides of the river. 
 
 
 
 
 
	 You are allowed, however, to place a building along the 
river, even if that means that the river becomes partly 
covered.
•	 The first building that you place on your game board 
must be placed alongside the river. It is not enough to 
just have one corner touching the river.

•	 All other buildings must be positioned in such a way that 
they have at least one side bordering another building. 
Again, just having a corner touching is not enough.
•	 Ending participation in an episode: After turning 
over a construction card, each player is always allowed 
to decide whether to end his or her participation in the 
episode. He or she announces this out loud and turns the 
unconstructed building over. When he or she does this, 
the player does not lose any points on the scoring track. 
He or she only loses a point if he or she passes but stays in 
the episode.
END OF AN EPISODE
An episode ends when all the players have ended their 
participation in it. If this has not happened, an episode will 
end after all the construction cards have been turned over.
Scoring:
Then, each player’s points are calculated and marked on the 
scoring track.
c	For each tree shown on a light green space on the game 
board, the player gets one point.
c	For each rock shown on a light green space on the game 
board, the player loses one point.
c	For each empty light green space visible on the game 
board, the player loses one point.
Note: At the beginning, there are only spaces with two trees or 
two rocks. These yield two points (added or subtracted). Later, 
spaces with one tree will be added, which yield one point.
If a scoring token reaches 50 during scoring, 
the player is immediately allowed to color in 
one progress symbol. The scoring token remains 
standing at 50, even if extra points are added or deducted.
If it happens that a scoring token drops under 
0, these negative points do not expire. They are 
deducted from the next positive points earned.
Assessment of an episode:
After the points have been calculated, the episode is assessed. 
The winners are allowed to color in additional progress 
symbols on their boards.
Assessment with three or four players:
Whoever has attained the most points on the scoring track is 
allowed to color in two progress symbols.
Whoever has attained the second-most points on the 
scoring track is allowed to color in one progress symbol.
Assessment with two players:
Whoever has attained the most points on the scoring track is 
allowed to color in two progress symbols.
Whoever has attained the second-most points on the 
scoring track is not allowed to color in any progress 
symbols. In a two-person game, in other words, the second 
player counts as the other player and wins no progress points.
•	 Buildings also count as bordering if the river is flowing 
between them. 
•	 Buildings may not be placed on top of buildings 
that are already constructed.
•	 Once a building is placed, it cannot be moved. 
•	 Passing: If a player cannot or does not want to construct 
a building, he or she is allowed to pass. He or she announces 
this out loud and places the building face down in front of 
himself or herself. He or she then has to move the scoring 
token one step backward on the scoring track.
Important: If the scoring token is already on zero, 
passing is not an option. In this case, if the player cannot 
or does not want to construct the building, he or she 
must end his or her participation in the episode. He or 
she is then not allowed to place any more buildings.

In addition, independent of their placement (first, second, 
other), the players get various stickers which are applied 
permanently to their game boards.
These stickers can be found in the sealed envelopes along 
with other game materials. Inside, you will also find an 
overview table showing what each player gets.
Important: If two or more players have attained the same 
point total at the end of an episode, the player who has the 
fewest empty light green spaces in the top row of his or her 
game board will get the top placement. If the result in the 
first row turns out equal, the second row is what counts, etc.
Note: Color in the progress symbols from left to right. Start in 
the top row, and when this is full continue at the left of the row 
beneath it. This way, each player can easily see who has gained 
how many progress symbols. 
Example: Before the scoring, the player has eight points. Since 
she passed twice, she had to move the scoring token two steps 
back during the episode. 
For her eight trees, she adds eight points.
For her two rocks, she has to deduct two points.
In addition, she has to deduct eight points for the eight empty 
light green spaces. 
The player then ends her first episode with six points.
THE SEALED ENVELOPES
The eight sealed envelopes are a special feature of My City. 
Inside each envelope, you will find a rule sheet containing a 
few new rules for each group of three episodes. Also, you will 
find an overview table, which summarizes on the left side 
how points may be won or lost. Some of the points apply 
immediately during an episode. Most (and later on, other 
rewards as well) apply at the end of an episode.
Example from the overview table for episode 1:
On the right side of the overview table, you will see the 
assessment for the relevant episode. This indicates which 
player is allowed to color in progress symbols at the end of 
the episode as described. Also indicated are which players get 
which stickers (which are also found inside the envelope). 
Some of the stickers are allocated at the beginning of an 
episode, but most are assigned at the end.
Example from the 
overview table for 
episode 1:
To apply the stickers to your game board at the end of an 
episode, you will first have to clear away all the buildings 
from the game board. 
Unless otherwise indicated, you have to affix the stickers to 
empty light green spaces that show a small square in the 
center. 
In some of the envelopes, in addition to the stickers you will 
find other materials that will be used in the game. 
THE FIRST CHAPTER
Now that you know all the important rules, you can begin 
your My City adventure.
You already know that there is one sealed envelope for 
each chapter. You may now open the first envelope: 
Chapter 1: The New Land — Episodes 1 to 3.
The envelope contains one rule sheet, 
one overview table, and one small sheet 
of stickers. Display the overview table 
so all players can see it easily and keep 
the sheet of stickers ready. If there are 
stickers or other materials that you have not used at the end 
of an episode, keep them in the box. Read the rule sheet for 
Chapter 1 and place it in this rulebook after you have read it. 
Now you can begin your first episode.
After the episode, the game board is cleared off and the 
scoring token is placed on 10 again. In the next episode, 
all the players start rebuilding their city as described in the 
sealed envelope rule sheet. 

THE ETERNAL GAME
Have you played all 24 episodes? If so, you have enjoyed a 
unique gaming experience. You have guided the development 
of your own city and witnessed eight chapters of its diverse 
history. 
But My City is not over. If you want to keep building your 
city in competition with your fellow players, you will find a 
version on the back of the game board that you can play over 
and over. It more or less corresponds to episode 10 of the 
legacy game. 
In this version, all the game boards are identical. You can also 
play it if you want to play every now and then with friends 
who are not playing the legacy game. One of you has to have 
at least played episodes one through five, however.
GAME SETUP
•	 Each player gets a game board and places it in front of 
himself or herself with the side shown here facing up. 
•	 Each player gets one scoring token and places it on 
number 10 of the scoring track. This token will 
be used to mark your points during the episode 
and, most importantly, at the end of it. 
•	 Each player gets a set of 27 buildings, all of which must 
show the same animal symbol on the back side. 
•	 Display your buildings face up next to your game board 
(animal symbols facing down). There are three types of 
normal buildings: eight residential buildings (yellow), 
eight public buildings (red), and eight industrial buildings 
(blue). In addition, each player has three churches (purple 
roofs). 
Important: If you have already completed the legacy 
game, you will have additional buildings with your 
animal symbol. These are not used in the Eternal Game. 
You will also ignore the stickers found on some of the 
buildings.
•	 Shuffle the 28 construction cards and place them in a 
single deck face down in the middle of the table. For each 
building, there is a corresponding construction card. You 
will construct your buildings in the sequence shown on the 
construction cards as they are turned over. In addition to 
the 24 cards with the normal buildings (eight in each of 
three colors) and the three churches, there is one blocking 
card in the deck. 
Important: If you have already completed the legacy 
game, you will have additional construction cards in 
the deck. These are not used in the Eternal Game. 
COURSE OF PLAY
Each game consists of a number of rounds. In each round, 
you will turn over the top construction card of the face-
down deck and place it face up in a discard pile. Each 
player takes the building matching the one depicted on the 
construction card and places it on his game board. No delay 
or waiting is allowed. All players place their buildings at the 
same time. 
At the end of the episode, you get points for your buildings 
which you mark on your scoring track.
THE CONSTRUCTION RULES
•	 Buildings may only be built on light green spaces. 
•	 They may not be built in the mountains or the forest. 
•	 Light green spaces with rocks or trees shown on them 
may be built upon. However, it is best to avoid 
building on light green spaces with trees if you 
can, because visible tree spaces will get you 
points at the end of each episode. Spaces with 
rocks should, on the other hand, be built upon whenever 
possible. If these are not covered with buildings 
at the end of the episode, 
points will be deducted.
•	 A building may not be placed on 
the river in such a way that it lies 
on both sides of the river. 
•	 You are allowed, however, to place 
a building along the river, even if 
that means that the river becomes 
partly covered. 

•	 The first building that you place 
on your game board must be 
placed alongside the river. It 
is not enough to just have one 
corner touching the river. 
•	 All other buildings must be positioned in such a way that 
they have at least one side bordering another building. 
Again, just having a corner touching is not enough. 
•	 Buildings 
also count as 
bordering if the 
river is flowing 
between them. 
•	 Buildings may not be placed on top of buildings that 
are already constructed. 
•	 Once a building is placed, it cannot be moved. 
•	 Try to construct as many contiguous buildings of 
the same color as possible. During the end-of-episode 
assessment, you will get extra points for each of the three 
colors. For each color, you will add up the number of 
buildings composing the largest contiguous group of this 
color and receive that number of points. 
•	 Passing: If a player cannot or does not want to construct a 
building, he or she is allowed to pass. He or she announces 
this out loud and places the building face down in front of 
himself or herself. He or she then has to move the scoring 
token one step backwards on the scoring track. In other 
words, he or she loses one point. 
Important: If the scoring token is already on zero, passing 
is not an option. In this case, if the player cannot or does 
not want to construct the building, he or she must end 
participation in the episode. He or she is not allowed to 
construct any more buildings. 
•	 Ending participation in an episode: After turning over 
each construction card, each player is always allowed to 
decide whether to end his or her own participation in 
the episode. He or she announces this out loud and turns 
the unconstructed building over. When he or she does 
this, the player does not lose any points on the scoring 
track. He or she only loses a point if he or she passes but 
stays in the episode. 
•	 Each church yields three additional points if you can 
manage to have a building in each of the three colors 
along three of its sides.
•	 Churches must be built! If a player is unable to construct 
the church shown on the uncovered construction card, he 
or she must end their participation in the episode, and can 
no longer construct any more buildings.
•	 If the blocking card is turned over, another card from 
the deck is immediately turned over as well. 
The building shown on that card must not be 
constructed — even if it is a church. Both cards 
are placed on the discard pile, with the blocking 
card on top. Each player turns the “blocked” 
building with its back side facing up. Then, the 
next construction card is turned over and play resumes as 
normal. 
•	 The wells may be built upon just like rocks or trees. 
At the end of the episode, however, you will get 
four extra points if you manage to place four 
buildings adjacent to the well, one on each side.
•	 The first player to build on both veins of gold will 
announce this out loud and immediately get three 
points. If more than one player achieves that in 
the same round, each of them gets three points. 
END OF EPISODE
An episode ends when all the players have ended their 
participation in the episode. If this has not happened, an 
episode will end after all the construction cards have been 
turned over. 
Then, each player’s points are calculated and marked with the 
scoring tokens on the scoring track:
c	Visible space with two trees: +2 points
c	Visible space with two rocks: -2 points
c	In each color: points = number of 
buildings in largest group
c	Three colors next to church: +3 points
c	Four buildings next to well: +4 points
c	Empty light green space: -1 point
The player with the most points is the winner.
If two or more players have attained the same point total, 
the player who has the fewest empty light green spaces 
in the top row of his or her game board will get the top 
placement. If the result in the first row turns out equal, the 
second row is what counts, etc.
 

The author and publisher thank everyone who took part in playing test 
games, reviewing the rules, and creating the game, especially Iain Adams, 
Joanna Adams, Sebastian Bleasdale, Rudi Gebhardt, Sebastian Gieger, Franzi 
Günzinger, Florian Ionescu, Simon Kane, Dorette Peters, Vroni Sigl, Andi 
Stamer, Dominik Volland, Stefan Willkofer, and Philipp Winter. 
The author: Reiner Knizia, born in 1957, lives in Munich, Germany. The 
Doctor of Mathematics has published numerous games inside and outside of 
Germany. In addition to winning the Deutscher Spielepreis (German Game 
Prize) four times, one of his greatest accomplishments has 
been to win Germany’s Spiel des Jahres 2008 (2008 Game 
of the Year) for Keltis, published by Kosmos. The author 
specializes in games that have simple rules along with lots of 
decision-making freedom. My City presents players with an 
astounding multitude of ideas.
Editing: Wolfgang Lüdtke
Editorial assistance: Peter Neugebauer
Technical product development: Monika Schall
Illustrations: Michael Menzel
Graphics: Michaela Kienle
3d image: Fiore GmbH
English text editing: Ed Gartin, Ted McGuire
© 2020 Franckh-Kosmos Verlags-GmbH & Co. KG 
Pfizerstr. 5–7, 70184 Stuttgart 
Telephone: +49 711 2191-0 
Fax: +49 711 2191-199 
info@kosmos.de 
kosmos.de 
© 2020 Thames & Kosmos, LLC, Providence, RI, USA 
Thames & Kosmos is a registered trademark of Thames & Kosmos, 
LLC. All rights reserved.
 
Distributed in North America by Thames & Kosmos, LLC. 
Providence, RI 02903 
Phone: 800-587-2872 ; Web:thamesandkosmos.com
Distributed in United Kingdom by Thames & Kosmos UK, LP. 
Cranbrook, Kent TN17 3HE 
Phone: 01580 713000 ; Web: thamesandkosmos.co.uk
MADE IN CHINA
691486-02-040121