Ages 4+ 1–4 Players 20 Minutes
INCLUDES
OBJECT A group of monsters is racing out of the woods 
and towards your castle! Can you catch them in time? If the 
players catch all the monsters, they win. But if the monsters 
smash the castle flat, the players lose. 
My First Castle Panic is a cooperative game. You can show 
your cards to each other and talk about the best way to 
catch the monsters. Work as a team to win!
SETUP Place the castle in the castle space of the board 
and the wall in the wall space in front of the castle. Find the 
3 monsters with a STAR and place them on the first three 
spaces on the board, beginning with the START space. Mix 
the rest of the monsters up and set them face down next 
to the board. Keep the bottom of the box nearby. (This will 
be the monster Dungeon.) Shuffle the deck of Castle cards, 
and deal 1 card face up to each player. Set the remaining 
cards to the side face down, creating your draw deck. The 
youngest player goes first, and play continues clockwise.
HOW TO PLAY 
Each player’s turn consists of 4 steps completed in this 
order:
1. DRAW 1 card from the draw pile
2. PLAY 1 card from your hand
	
	
OR
 ASK FOR HELP from 1 other player
3. MOVE the monsters
4. DRAW 1 monster token
Draw 1 Card Draw the top card from the deck and add it to 
your hand. If the draw pile runs out, shuffle the discards to 
make a new one. There is no limit to the number of cards 
you can have in your hand. 
Play 1 Card To catch a monster, you 
must play a card that matches both the 
color AND the shape of the space that 
the monster is on. 
Hero cards can match 1 monster in any of the 
shapes of the color shown.
Any-color cards can match 1 monster in any 
color of the shape shown.
Put all the caught monsters 
into the Dungeon.
Put the card that was played to catch the monster face up 
next to the draw pile. This will be the discard pile.
Ask for Help If another player has a card that matches, you 
can ask that player to play their card instead. (You can ask 
for help even if you have a card that matches.) If no player 
has a card that matches, move to the next step. (See also 
More Help Variation.)
Special Cards 
The wall card rebuilds the wall if it gets 
knocked flat by a monster.
The Boot card lets you pick any monster on 
the board and boot it facedown back into the 
monster pile (not the Dungeon).
Remember, you can play only 1 card on your turn, 
whether it’s from your hand or by asking for help. So 
choose carefully!
1 Board
1 Castle (1 front piece 
and 2 side pieces)
1 Wall (1 front piece 
and 2 side pieces)
26 Castle cards
16 Monster 
tokens 
4 How-to-Play cards
1 Monster 
Dungeon 
(bottom of box)

Move the Monsters The next step 
is to MOVE all the monsters 1 space 
closer to the castle.
If a monster hits the wall, they 
both get knocked flat. Add the 
monster to the Dungeon, and 
set the wall aside. If a monster 
hits the castle, they both get 
knocked flat. With no castle to 
call home, the game is over and the players lose!
NOTE: Monsters can never land in an empty wall space!
Draw 1 Monster The last step of every turn is to draw 1 
monster token from the monster pile, and put that token on 
the board. The new monster always goes on the START space. 
If there are no more monsters in the pile, you skip this step. 
There are 4 types of monsters in the game. One is a regular 
monster, but 3 are special:
• Shover: After putting 
the Shover on the 
START space, move 
all the monsters 
(including the Shover) 
1 more space closer to 
the castle.
• Runner: This monster 
is in a hurry! Instead 
of putting this monster 
on the START space, 
place it on the space 
in front of the monster 
closest to the castle. If 
the closest monster is in front of the wall or castle, that 
means the Runner hits the wall or castle!
• Marcher: After putting 
the Marcher on the 
START space, move all 
the monsters (including 
the Marcher) 1 more 
space closer to the 
castle and then draw 
1 more monster token and place it on the board. If you 
draw another special monster, follow the rules for that 
monster too!
• NOTE These monsters only do their special trick when 
they are added to the board. After that, they just move 
like regular monsters.
GAME END There are 2 ways the game can end. If the 
castle gets knocked flat, the game ends and the players lose. 
If the players catch all the monsters and the castle is still 
standing, then the castle is saved and the players win!
1 PLAYER GAME To play the game by yourself, follow all 
the same rules except you deal yourself 2 cards at the start 
of the game, and there is no limit to the number of cards 
you can play.
VARIATIONS
Easier Need to ease into the game? Try 1 of these rules 
changes.
• Super Hero The Hero card can remove 1 monster on ALL 
of the matching shapes and color.
• Any-Color Power-Up The Any-color card can remove 1 
monster on ALL of the matching colors and shape.
• Hand Boost Start the game with 2 cards instead of 1.
• More Help If no player has a card that matches on your 
turn, draw a card from the Castle deck. Play the card if 
it matches. Keep it in your hand if it doesn’t.
Harder Need a challenge? Try 1 or both of these rules 
changes.
• Monster Rush Start the game with a 4th goblin 
on the green triangle space.
• Defenseless Start without the wall.
When you’re ready for an even greater 
challenge, pick up the original Castle Panic at 
a store near you. Castle Panic is a cooperative 
game the whole family will enjoy.
Game Design: Justin De Witt
Graphic Design and Layout: Justin De Witt
Illustration: Cam Kendell
Editing: Anne-Marie De Witt
Playtesters: Arya Bickett, Kelly Brown, S. C. Houff, Candice Cooper, Corey Cooper, 
Roman Cooper, Rory Cooper, Ruby Deline, Liam Evans, James Hernandez, Todd Houff, 
Amalia Hubbard, Noah Hubbard, Jackson Huber, Lily Kilgo, Ben Litster, Brent Litster, 
Edison Marshall, Ethan Marshall, Scott McAuliff, Andrew McGrady, Lara McGrady, 
Rebekah McGrady, Avery Morse, Zachary Morse, Jillian Mott, Jon Mott, Nathan Mott, 
Crystal Oxborrow, Jayce Oxborrow, Josh Oxborrow, Kiana Oxborrow, Ivy Peterson, Evan 
Potrin, Morgan Rappleye, Nathan Rappleye, Ashlyn Ruenes, Gwen Ruenes, Cliff Stornel, 
Katherine Stornel, Emilie Taylor, Eric Thomas, Addi Veksler, Bella Veksler, Noah Veksler, 
Luna Wanier
© 2019 Fireside Games, LLC. Castle Panic, My First Castle Panic, and all game 
and company logos and slogans are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of Fireside Games, LLC. P.O. Box 151164, Austin, TX, 78715. All rights 
reserved. No part of this product may be reproduced without permission 
from the publisher. Please retain this information for future reference.
For more information, visit www.firesidegames.com.