Mykerinos – English Rules
Game design by Nicolas Oury – Illustrations by Arnaud Demaegd – Layout by Cyril Demaegd
FAQ & Forum : www.ystari.com
Contents
Once upon a time…
Goal of the game
The players embody archaeologists working for pa-
trons. They excavate the land of Egypt to find pre-
cious artifacts, which will adorn the most prestigious 
rooms of the Museum. At the end of the game, the 
Museum organizes a great exhibition. The player who 
has earned the most prestige (by discovering things 
and getting advantageous places in the Museum) wins 
the game.
1899. For more than a century, the European public 
has been fascinated by Egyptology, and the discove-
ries of Denon, Champollion, Petrie and others.
Seeking adventure and glory, teams of archaeologists 
search the sands of Egypt for hidden treasures. 
Setup
● The board is placed on the table.
● Multi-colored cubes are placed next to the board. They constitute the general stock.
● Each player chooses a color, takes the corresponding two marker disks, then places one of these disks on 
space 0 of the score track (1), and the other one next to the passing scale (4). 
● One player, chosen randomly, starts the game: they take the five ‘patron’ markers and place them randomly, 
one by one, in the circular spaces of the five wings of the Museum (3).
Game principles
The game is divided in four seasons. During each season, the players excavate a region of Egypt by placing their 
men in the various excavation areas of the region. At the end of the season, once the excavating is done, the 
best ranked archaeologists may either claim a parcel of land or send their men out to prepare the final exhibition 
at the Museum. 
Each parcel of land is placed in a patron’s tutelage. By claiming a parcel, a player earns the right to appeal to the 
patron and to use the patron’s specific power in the course of subsequent seasons. 
The Museum is divided in several rooms of varying prestige. The players can book these rooms by sending 
men into the Museum. They must choose carefully among the different wings, while watching their opponents 
progress. 
● 1 game board
 	
	
	
 
● 36 ‘terrain / patron’ cards 
● 100 ‘archaeologist’ cubes (25 for each color: blue, red, green and white)
● 19 marker disks for the players (including 1 “first player” marker and 6 “+50” score markers)
● 5 ‘patron’ markers (1 orange, 1 black, 1 brown, 1 yellow, 1 purple)
● this booklet
35 out of the 36 cards feature a parcel of land on the front, and a patron on the back. The last card also features 
a parcel, but there is no patron on its back.
Parcels: Parcels are pieces of land on which players can place their cubes to carry out excavations. Each parcel 
is divided in six spaces that may be empty or contain a pyramid. Spaces containing a pyramid are obstacles; 
players cannot place cubes on them. What is more, at the center of each parcel, there is a cartouche with infor-
mation on it. The cartouche indicates the degree of prestige of the parcel: some cards have no figure on them, 
some have a 2, a 3 or a 5, which represent the prestige points the players will score if they own the parcel. At the 
center of the cartouche, a sign indicates the patron to whom the parcel is allotted. 
Regions: At the beginning of each round, a new region – composed of parcels – is set up (see fig.1; also see 
Phase 1). The region is a game board. It is made up of areas (fig.2), which are groups of two parcels. NB: Parcels 
have no up and no down; they may be placed in either direction. 
The various areas which make up a region may be separated by a space to make them easier to differentiate. 
However, areas are considered adjacent. Thus, two spaces which are side-by-side orthogonally (but not diago-
nally) on two different cards are considered adjacent (fig.3). What is more, cartouches are not considered as 
obstacles. As a consequence, two spaces separated by a cartouche are considered adjacent. 
Cards
Fig. 2 : an area
Fig. 3 : adjacent spaces
Fig. 1 : a region
1. Scoring track
2. Museum
3. Museum wing
4. Passing scale
5. Patrons

Progress of the game
At the beginning of each round, players get cubes of their 
color from the general stock. Each player places their 
cubes before them. Thus, they take:
	
● 11 cubes in 3-player games
● 8 cubes in 4-player games
If there are not enough cubes in the general stock, the 
player can only take what is left. 
The cubes that were taken from the general stock make 
up the player’s personal stock.
Then, the first player builds up the region to be excavated 
during this season: the player shuffles the pile of cards 
and sets up the region as shown on the right (parcel sides 
up).
Phase 1 – New season
The game is divided into four seasons; each season is divided into three phases.
Setting up the region: in seasons 1, 2 and 3, eight 
parcels are arranged to form four areas (two lines 
with two areas per line – see the yellow cards on the 
diagram). In season 4, twelve parcels are arranged 
to form six areas (three lines with two areas per line 
– see the yellow cards AND the red cards on the dia-
gram – also see fig.1 on the previous page). 
Phase 2 – Excavations
Starting with the first player and going clockwise, each 
player may in turn choose one action among the four ac-
tions below: 
A) Start a new excavation
The player takes a cube from their personal stock and 
places it on a free space of their choice in the region 
which is being excavated. It is impossible to place a cube 
on a space containing a pyramid. 
B) Extend a pre-existing excavation
The player takes two cubes from their personal stock. 
They place the first cube on a free space, horizontally or 
vertically adjacent to a space already containing one 
of their cubes. Then the player places the second cube 
on a free space, horizontally or vertically adjacent to 
the space where they have just placed the first cube. 
These cubes cannot be placed on a square containing a 
pyramid. 
C) Pass
The player passes. They place their marker disk on the 
first free space of the passing scale (that is, the space with 
the smallest number still available). Phase 2 is over for this 
player. This is the only action available when a player has 
no cube left in their personal stock.
D) Appealing to a patron
This action is available from the second season on, thanks 
to the parcels the players will get during Phase 3 of the 
first season (see Phase 3). 
Thanks to their financial means, the five patrons can help 
the players with their specific powers.
At their turn, the player tilts the card featuring the patron 
they are interested in. Then, the player acts as indicated 
(see below). A given player may only tilt one card per 
turn. A tilted card cannot be used again during the same 
season, but a player may appeal to the same patron sev-
eral times in the same season (as long as the player has 
cards left to tilt, with the patron on them). 
a) Lady Violet
The player takes a cube their color from the general stock 
and places it in their personal stock. Then, the player car-
ries out action A (start a new excavation) or action B 
(extend a pre-existing excavation). If the player has no 
cubes left in the general stock, they cannot carry out this 
action.
b) Lord Lemon
The player may start a new excavation by taking a cube 
from their personal stock and placing it on a space con-
taining a pyramid (action A), OR extend an existing exca-
vation by placing one of the two cubes of their personal 
stock on a space containing a pyramid (action B).
c) Sir Brown
The player sends one of their men out to reserve a room 
in the Museum. Instead of playing in the region, they place 
a cube from their personal stock into the Museum (make 
sure you follow the Museum placing rules (see Phase 3 
– Placing cubes in the Museum). 
d) Mrs. Blackmore
The player may start a new excavation by placing two 
cubes from their personal stock instead of one. The player 
puts the first cube on a free space of their choice, and 
the second cube on a free space, horizontally or verti-
cally adjacent to the first cube. These cubes cannot be 
placed on a space containing a pyramid.
e) Colonel Tangerine
The player may extend an existing excavation by placing 
three cubes from their personal stock instead of two. The 
player places the first cube on a free space, horizontally 
or vertically adjacent to a space already containing 
a cube their color. Then the player places the second 
cube on a free space, horizontally or vertically adja-
cent to the first one, and the third cube on a free space, 
horizontally or vertically adjacent to the second cube. 
These cubes cannot be placed on a space containing a 
pyramid.
When there is only one player left (that is, when the other 
players have passed), that player may only carry out one 
action. Then, the game moves on to phase 3.
Blue starts a new excavation. They can place their 
cube on spaces A or B (empty spaces), but not on 
C or D (which already contain cubes), nor on E or F 
(because of the pyramids).
Green passes, by putting a marker disk on the first 
free space of the passing scale (here, space 1, since 
Green is the first to pass).
Red extends one of their existing excavations (space 
A) by placing a red cube on B, then another one on 
C. 
Blue tilts a card featuring Lord Lemon. Then Blue 
extends one of his/her own excavations by putting a 
cube on A (pyramid) and B. Since A already contains 
a pyramid, it is impossible for Blue to place his/her 
second cube on space C.
Red tilts a card featuring Mrs. Blackmore, and puts 
one cube on A and the other one on B, which is ad-
jacent to A.
White tilts a card featuring Colonel Tangerine. Then, 
White extends one of his/her excavations by placing 
three cubes on spaces A, B and C.

Phase 3 – Survey
During this phase, the players will claim parcels and book 
rooms in the Museum for the final exhibition.
Survey of the areas
Count areas one by one, starting with the one in the top 
left-hand corner of the region. Count line by line, from left 
to right.
In each area, players are ranked according to the total 
number of cubes they have placed. The player who has 
the highest number of cubes in the area comes first, the 
player with the second highest number comes second, 
and so on. Players who have placed no cubes in the 
area are not ranked.
Draws: If two players or more have placed the same num-
ber of cubes in the area, take a look at the passing scale 
to settle the draw and rank them. In this case, the player 
who occupies the space with the lowest figure (that is, 
the player who passed first) wins the draw. 
The player who is ranked first in the area must choose 
among the following two actions:
● Take one of the two parcel cards which make up the 
area (see claiming a parcel).
● Book a room in the Museum by placing one of their 
cubes from the general stock (see Placing cubes in the 
Museum). This action is impossible if the player has no 
cubes left in the general stock. 
Then, the player who is ranked second must choose 
among the following two actions:
● Take the remaining parcel card (if the first player has 
taken the other card) or one of the two parcel cards (if the 
first player has placed a cube in the Museum).
● Book a room in the Museum by placing one of their 
cubes from the general stock. This action is impossible if 
the player has no cubes left in the general stock.
Be careful: in rare instances a player may be alone in an 
area. In such a case, the player ONLY scores as the first 
ranked player.
If there are cards left once the first and second players 
have made their choice (that is, if at least one of them has 
booked a room in the Museum), the player who is ranked 
third and possibly the one who comes in the fourth posi-
tion may take the remaining parcel(s). They may not go 
to the Museum. 
Finally, discard excess cards in the area (put them back 
into the box). All the cubes that were played in the area 
are put back into the general stock. Move on to the next 
area. 
Claiming a parcel 
The player takes the card. If there are points on the car-
touche (2, 3 or 5 points), the player immediately earns the 
corresponding number of prestige points, and moves the 
marker accordingly on the score track. Finally, they turn 
the card patron side up and place it in front of them. 
Placing cubes in the Museum
The Museum is divided into one central room and five 
wings. 
Each wing is composed of two rooms (a room with a ‘3’ 
value opening onto another room with a ‘5’ value), and is 
dedicated to the discoveries of a specific patron.
In between wings, there are rooms with a ‘2’ value. These 
rooms belong to the two wings that surround them. They 
open onto the ‘5’-valued rooms of these wings. 
The higher the value of a room is, the more prestige points 
the room will yield during the final exhibition. Each room 
may contain no more than one cube. 
Whenever a player puts a cube in the Museum, they may 
either: 
● place it in any free ‘2’ or ‘3’ room,
● or place it in a ‘5’ room adjacent to a ‘2’ or ‘3’ room they 
already control. 
End of the phase
When all the areas have been surveyed, the phase is over. 
Then:
● The last player on the passing scale becomes the first 
player of the next season. 
● The passing scale is emptied.
● Patron cards that were tilted during phase two are set 
straight (so, players will be able to use them again in the 
next season).
A new season begins.
Players keep the cubes they have not used during 
this season; they will be able to use them in the next 
season.
Areas are counted following the order shown above.
Survey of an area: in this area Blue is ranked first with 
four cubes, Red and Green both have two cubes, and 
White has one cube. Green passed before Red, so 
Green occupies a better place on the passing scale, 
and is consequently ranked second. Red is ranked 
third. White comes fourth.
Blue must choose between the two cards and the 
Museum. He/she chooses the leftmost card, which 
has a value of 3, so Blue moves his/her marker up 
three spaces along the score track. Then, Blue places 
the card before him/her with the patron side up. From 
the next turn on, Blue will be able to activate Lord 
Lemon’s help. 
Green may choose between the remaining card and 
the Museum. He/she chooses to place a cube in the 
Museum (see next example).
Being ranked third, Red cannot go to the Museum, 
so he/she takes the remaining card. Since there is no 
number on it, Red’s score marker does not move. Red 
places the card before him/her with the patron side 
up. From the next turn on, Red will be able to activate 
Mrs. Blackmore’s help.
Since there are no cards left, White earns nothing. All 
the cubes are put back into the general stock, and the 
survey of the next area starts. 
Placing cubes in the Museum: Green places a green 
cube from the general stock into the Museum. It is 
Green’s first cube in the Museum, so rooms with a 
‘5’ value are not available. It is also impossible for 
Green to put a cube in rooms that are already occu-
pied, so he/she decides to place a cube in the room 
situated between the wings of Lord Lemon and Mrs. 
Blackmore.
Placing cubes in the Museum (cont’d): While survey-
ing another area, Green chooses to place another 
cube in the Museum. Since there already is a green 
cube between Lord Lemon’s and Mrs. Blackmore’s 
wings, both ‘5’- valued rooms are now available. 
Green may also choose to put a cube in any unoc-
cupied room with a value of 2 or 3. Finally, Green de-
cides to place a man in Lord Lemon’s room ‘5’, which, 
from now on, is not available to other players. 

End of the game
The Game ends at the end of the fourth season. Points 
are counted:
Exhibition at the Museum
During the exhibition, the players earn points according to 
the number of cards they own in relation to the places they 
occupy in the Museum. 
For example, the place a player occupies in Lord Lem-
on’s wing will affect the value of the ‘Lord Lemon’ cards 
they own. Thus, each card will yield from 1 to 5 prestige 
points.
To count points in the Museum, start with wing number 1, 
and through to wing number 5. For each wing, a player 
earns points according to the number of corresponding 
‘patron’ cards they have, and according to the position of 
the player in the rooms: 
● If the player is in room ‘5’, they earn five prestige points 
● If the player is in room ‘3’, they earn three prestige points 
● If the player is in a room adjacent to the wing (room ‘2’), 
they earn two prestige points per card they own.
● If the player is neither in any room of the wing, nor in 
any room adjacent to the wing, they only score one point 
● If the player is in several of the above rooms, for each 
card they own, they earn the number of points correspond-
ing to the room with the highest figure.
Series
For each series of five different ‘patron’ cards they own, a 
player scores five points. 
The player who has the most prestige points wins the 
game. In case of draw, the player who has the most 
cubes in their personal stock wins. If this causes a 
new draw, the tied players share the win.
NB: there is a parcel card (the 5 points card) which is not 
affiliated to any patron. This card does not yield any mu-
seum or series points at the end of the game.
2-player games
The rules of the 3-player game still apply, but a neutral player is played collectively by both players. This neutral 
player does not score points; however, players will be able to use it to block their opponent.
At the beginning of each season (Phase 1), each player takes 11 of their own cubes and 4 cubes of a same 
neutral color. Choose a passing disk the same color for the neutral player and place it on space 2 of the passing 
scale. As a consequence, during the game, the first player who will pass will always win the draws opposing them 
to the other player and the neutral player, whereas the player who will not pass first, being ranked third on the 
scale, will always lose the draws. 
During the excavation phase (Phase 2), the player plays normally, then they may use their neutral cubes to start 
a new neutral excavation (action A), or extend a pre-existing neutral excavation (action B), following the cube 
placing rules. The neutral player cannot benefit from the patrons’ powers.
During the survey phase (Phase 3), when the neutral player is ranked first or second in an area, it must auto-
matically choose a card (in other words, it never places cubes in the Museum). The card is chosen according to 
the ranking in the area: 
● If the neutral player is ranked first, the player who is ranked third (or the unranked player, if both players are not 
in the area) chooses the neutral player’s card.
● If the neutral player is ranked second, the player who is ranked first chooses the neutral player’s card. 
● The cards chosen by the neutral player are permanently discarded.
● If the neutral player is alone in an area, both cards are permanently discarded. 
Thanks
The author would like to thank Anne, Cyril, Raphi, William, Dom, Thomas, Manu, Thomas & Julia, Manu, Nicolas 
& Julie, Adrien & Lydie, Nathalie, and all the testers for their insightful suggestions.
Hints
● Manage your stock of cubes wisely: cubes that are left unused by the end of a season can be used in the next 
season. Thus, a player who saves up more cubes than their opponents will have more at their disposal for the 
next season, which will especially be useful for the fourth season, when the game region is larger. 
● Do not fight uselessly: remember the first two players of each area are sure to earn something (either a parcel 
of a place in the Museum). Its is therefore useless to accumulate cubes in an area where you are only threatened 
by one opponent, or to try and beat an opponent at all cost when both parcels are interesting. 
● Keep the Museum in mind: if you place no cube in the Museum, your cards will only yield one point, which is 
not sufficient to win the game. Try and secure an access to the Museum with a ‘Sir Brown’ card, or “sacrifice” a 
few parcels (even strong ones) at the right time (for instance, when there are only two players in the area, and 
the card you are sacrificing will not be of benefit to anyone). 
● Pass carefully: if you stop placing cubes too early, you run the risk of seeing other players take your majorities. 
Conversely, it is useless to waste cubes if you think the situation is safe enough, all the more so since being the 
first to pass will make you win every draw.
Final exhibition at the Museum: by the end of the 
fourth season, Blue owns the cards shown above. 
According to the position of his/her cubes in the Mu-
seum, Blue scores:
● Three points per ‘Lord Lemon’ card, that is six 
● Three points for his/her only ‘Mrs. Blackmore’ card
● Five points per ‘Sir Brown’ card, that is fifteen 
● Two points per ‘Colonel Tangerine’ card, that is four 
● One point for his/her ‘Lady Violet’ card. 
Series: Blue has a full series of different ‘patron’ 
cards. Consequently, Blue score five points.