A game by Yoann Levet - Artwork: Arnaud Demaegd
Game Rules
In the kingdom of Myrmes, the ant colonies have been fighting for 
centuries to dominate their neighbors.
To put an end to this war, the council of the queens has decreed that 
a final battle will decide the issue of the final victory. Send your sol-
diers and your workers to assault of the kingdom. Fill up your larder, 
hunt down insects and wisely place your pheromones to conquer the 
territory. But most importantly, don’t forget to prepare for winter!
www.ystari.com

For each player::
8 Workers/ Soldiers
4 Tunnel exit tokens
1 Marker disc
(ant colony level)
8 Nurses
1 Event cube and 
4 cubes to mark 
special tiles
1 Individual board
17 Pheromone tiles
1 First player token
18 Prey tokens
1 Year token
20 Objective tiles
30 larva
30 food
15 earth
15 stone
Main board
8 Aphid farm/ Scavenging tiles 
8 Sub-colony tiles 
3 Season dice : Green = Spring,
Yellow = Summer & Red = Autumn
4 Score tokens
Object of the game
Each player leads an ant colony from the world of Myrmes 
struggling to establish its supremacy over the kingdom.
During the game, the players will score points by placing 
pheromone tiles, hunting prey, feeding the Queen and com-
pleting objectives. At the end of the game, the player with 
the most points will be declared the winner.
Game setup
(4 players)
Note: see the changes to be made depending on the num-
ber of players on page 11.
The main board is placed in the middle of the table.
The resource cubes, larvae and special tiles are placed 
near the game board.
The Year token is placed on the space which marks the 
first year of the game.
The Season dice are rolled and each die is placed on its 
space on the season track.
The Prey tokens are randomly placed on their spaces.
2 objectives each of level 1, level 2 and level 3 are ran-
domly chosen and placed on their respective spaces.
Each player chooses a color and takes: 1 individual 
board, the ants, the octagons (nurses), discs, cubes and 
pheromones of the chosen color, which they place near 
their individual board.
Each player places 3 nurses in the nursery, 2 workers 
in the worker rook, and a larva in the larvae room.
A Tunnel exit token, indicating the initial tunnel exit of 
each player, is placed on each of the starting spaces.
A colored disc is placed at level 0 of the ant colony and 
the Score token is placed on the starting space of the score 
track (10 points). 
The event cube is placed on the event track, according 
to the event indicated by the Season die.
The other elements are placed near individual boards.
The shortest player is chosen to be the first player, that 
player gets the first player token. The game begins.
Box contents

Game basics
A game of Myrmes is played over the course of 3 game years. Each year is divided into 4 seasons. During the first 3 
seasons the player will play a normal turn while winter is a special season in which they’ll have to draw from their stored 
food reserves.
Each player has an individual board which represents its ant colony. This board is divided into various parts:
A) Event track, which indicates the event of the current season
B) Larvae room (and birth track), where the larvae are stored
C) Nursery (and birth track), where the nurses are stored
D) Soldier room (and birth track), where the soldiers are stored
E) Worker room (and birth track), where the workers are stored
F) Atelier, where the nurses who aren’t participating in the births will be able to go work
G) Storeroom, where the resource cubes will be stored
H) Ant colony, divided into 4 levels. At the beginning of the game, only level 0 (the highest one) is accessible. The left 
column of the ant colony is made up of rooms in which the workers will be able to go work. The right column shows what 
options are available to workers going outside.
The players start the game with 3 nurses, 2 workers, 1 larva and a tunnel exit which represents their exit point to the 
garden area.
The main board (see next page) is divided into multiple areas:
A) Score track: this track shows the score of the players during the game. The players will score points by placing phero-
mones, hunting prey, cleaning up opposing pheromones and completing objectives.
B) Year and season tracks: the year track shows the current year and what the players will need once winter arrives. 
The season track is made up of 3 spaces for the season dice. At the beginning of each year, the dice will be rolled and will 
indicate the events for the year to come.
C) Garden area: the workers which leave the individual board of each player will exit from a tunnel. They will then move 
over the terrain and will be able to place pheromones (which will give them access to resource cubes), clean up empty 
pheromones (to make space), hunt prey (by discarding soldiers) or place special tiles (but only if they’ve developed the 
ant colony).
D) Atelier: in this area, the nurses placed by the players in the atelier will be able to dig new tunnels, improve the ant 
colony, make new nurses or complete objectives.
E) Objectives: during the game, 6 objectives can be completed by discarding elements. There are 2 objectives of level 1, 
2 of level 2, and 2 of level 3.
A normal season (spring, summer, fall) is made up of 6 phases:
1) Event: for each season an event will be determined by the die for that season. During this phase, the players will be able to 
modify that event by spending larvae. The events allow players to obtain special bonuses for the season.
2) Births: each player will use their nurses to give birth to new ants. Larvae (which are used to modify events, create new 
nurses during phase 5 and food during winter), workers (which will work during phase 3) and soldiers (which will be used to 
hunt prey, invade enemy pheromones and guard food during winter). In addition, some nurses can be set aside for phase 5 
(Atelier).
3) Workers: each player will use their workers, whether to send them in their ant colony, or to make them go out into the 
garden. A worker who is working in its ant colony will generally bring back one resource and will be able to be used again next 
turn. A worker who leaves for the garden will automatically be discarded after its action. In the garden, a worker can use 3 
movement points to:
Find prey, which will then be hunted by discarding soldiers
Place pheromones, which will be filled with resource cubes and later harvested
Clean up empty pheromones, to make space
Place special tiles, such as the Aphid farm which allow players to gain one cube of food per turn
4) Harvest: each player will take 1 cube of their choice from each owned pheromone and place it in their stock.
5) Atelier: each player will use the nurses placed in the atelier during phase 2. These nurses allow players to:
Dig new tunnels, which will allow better exit options for the workers,
Improve the ant colony, by spending resources which will allow access to lower levels.
Create new nurses, to have more options during phase 2.
Complete objectives set by the council of the Queens, which will allow players to score victory points.
6) End of turn: each player updates their stock and the first player token moves.
During winter, the player must discard food cubes or lose points. However, the soldiers protect the food and allow 
players to save food.
At the end of 3 years, the player with the most points wins the game.
D
E
D
I
J
A) Score track
B) Season track
C) Garden (play) area
D) Atelier
E) Objective spaces
F) Starting positions for 2 / 4 play-
ers
G) Starting positions for 4 players
H) Starting positions for 3 players
I) Prey token space
J) Adjustment to the objectives de-
pending on the number of players
K) Prey board
L) Year track
L
K
E
Important: at any point during their 
turn, a player can decide to sacrifice 
larvae to gain food cubes. For each set 
of 3 discarded larvae (or portion there-
of), the player gets a food cube which 
can be placed in their storeroom or dis-
carded for winter (see further). 

Game overview
The game takes place over a period of three game years, 
with each year being divided into four seasons (spring, 
summer, fall, winter). The first three seasons are normal 
turns, but the last (winter) is a maintenance phase dur-
ing which the players must spend food in order to pass 
through winter. 
Game turn
During spring, summer and fall, the players perform a 
normal turn, which is divided into 6 phases.
1) Event
This optional phase is played simultaneously by all play-
ers. By using the larvae at their disposal, the players can 
modify the seasonal event determined at the beginning of 
the year. Each larva spend allows them to move the Event 
cube one space to the right or to the left. There are no limits 
to the number of larvae a player can spend. Once a player 
has performed this phase, that player can move on to phase 
2 without having to wait for the other players.
If a player chooses the VP+1 event, then as soon as 
that player scores victory points during the current sea-
son (for example by placing a pheromone, by feeding 
the queen or by completing an objective), that player 
scores 1 extra victory point.
Example: it’s spring and the rolled event is Soldier+1 
(as the green die indicates a 5). Blue wishes to change 
that event to replace it with Worker +1. The player thus 
spends 2 larvae to move the Event cube two spaces to 
the right.
2) Births
This phase is played simultaneously by all players. 
Each player uses their nurses to place them:
Either in one of the three birth tracks, to give birth to 
new ants,
Or in the atelier so that they can be used during phase 
5 (Atelier).
A player can spread their nurses between the 
birth tracks and the atelier as they please. They 
do not have to use all of their nurses (though we 
recommend that they do).
Birth tracks: the player can use their nurses to give 
birth to three different types of ants.
Larvae: the player can use up to 3 nurses in this track. 
The first nurse gives birth to a single larva. The second and 
third nurses can give birth to 2 larvae each.
Soldiers: the player can use up to 3 nurses in this 
track. The first two nurses give birth to one soldier. The 
third nurse gives birth to an extra soldier.
Workers: the player can use up to 4 nurses in this 
track. Two nurses are needed to give birth to a worker, and 
eventually two more to give birth to a second.
If a player has chosen the Larvae+2 / Worker+1 / Sol-
dier+1 event, that player’s nurses give birth to an ex-
tra two larvae / one worker / one soldier as long as the 
player has used enough nurses to give birth to at least 
one of the ant type concerned. For example, to benefit 
from the Larvae+2 event, a player must use at least one 
nurses to give birth to a larva.
As soon as all player have finished placing their nurses 
on the birth tracks (and possibly the atelier), they simul-
taneously proceed to the birth of the ants. The ants thus 
created are placed in the respective rooms on the players’ 
individual boards.
The players then move on to phase 3.
Note: in the game, the workers and soldiers are not dif-
ferentiated (it would be pointless as the soldiers never go 
out into the garden). Each player has a reserve of 8 sol-
diers/workers. This limit can under no circumstances be 
broken by a player, and a player who, for example, has 
5 soldiers and 3 workers will not be able to gain any new 
ones until some of their ants are discarded (see further).
Example (cont’d): Blue has 4 nurses. The player plac-
es one in the atelier, two in the worker track and one in 
the larvae track. When all players have finished plac-
ing their nurses, they proceed with the birth of the ants. 
Blue thus gets one larva which the player places in their 
larvae room and two workers (one thanks to their nurs-
es and an extra one as they benefit from the Worker+1 
event) which they place in the worker room.
3) Workers
This phase is played by each player in turn, starting with the 
first player and going clockwise. In turn, each player will use 
a worker to either send it outside, or to send it to work in the 
ant colony. Players are not allowed to pass..
Note: depending on the choices made by the players dur-
ing phase 2, it is possible that some players may have more 
workers than others. In that case, some players will play 
more often in this phase than other players.
a) Ant colony: the player can decide to send the worker 
off to work in the colony. The Colony is made up of 4 levels 
and at the beginning of the game, only the first level is avail-
able (see further). At each level, one and only one worker can 
work. To use the colony, the player simply places the worker 
on a space where he or she wants it to work and gains the indi-
cated bonus, then the next player begins their turn. The used 
worker remains in place. No other worker can come work at 
that level and the worker will not be able to be used again for 
the turn.
Level 0 (gestation room): the player gets a larva 
which is immediately placed in the larva room.
Level I (larder): the player gets a cube of food which 
is immediately placed in their stockpile.
Level II (quarry): the player gets a cube of earth 
or stone (of their choice) which immediately gets placed in 
their stockpile. 
Level III (queen’s room): the player spends 1 cube 
of food from their stockpile to feed the queen and immedi-
ately gains 2 victory points.
If the player has chosen the Level+1 event, they can send 
one of their workers to work at a higher level. For exam-
ple, if the player has a level 0 ant colony (as is the case 
at the beginning of the game), they can send a worker to 
work at the larder (level 1) if they’ve chosen the Level+1 
event.
Example: Red decides to use their first worker to go 
work in the ant colony. The player thus takes a worker 
and places it in the gestation room (the only level to which 
they have access for the moment). The player gains a lar-
va which is placed in the larva room. It’s time for the next 
player to play. 
b) Sortie: the player can decide to have the worker go 
outside. To do that, the player takes their worker and plac-
es it on one of their tunnels exits in the garden area (at the 
beginning of the game the players only have a single tunnel 
exit). The workers which leave will never come back into the 
ant colony, as the worker will be discarded as soon as it has 
placed a tile (pheromone or special tile) or at the end of its 
movement if the player does not want to place a tile. The 
worker has 3 movement points outside of the ant colony, and 
does not have to use all of these points. By using these move-
ment points, it can explore the surrounding area, which will 
allow it to perform multiple actions:
Hunt a prey
Place a pheromone
Place a special tile
Clean up a pheromone
Movement: for 1 movement point, a worker can either 
move through an empty space (without pheromones), or cross 
an entire pheromone tile (which is considered a single empty 
space). Spaces containing water cannot be crossed. Spaces 
containing prey can only be crossed if the prey is hunted (see 
below).
If the player has chosen the Move+3 event, that player 
has 6 movement points for the turn instead of 3.
Opposing tiles: a worker can cross opposing tiles. 
However, this action costs a soldier. Thus, for each 
opposing tile in which the worker enters, its player 
must spend a soldier, which is removed from the 
soldier room and returned to the reserve.

Example: Red makes a worker go out by putting it 
on their tunnel exit. For 1 movement point, the worker 
is moved to hexagon A, for another movement point, it 
crosses friendly pheromone B. For its last movement 
point, it reaches its prey’s space.
Hunt a prey: if the worker enters a space contain-
ing a Prey token, it immediately lets the soldiers know and 
this prey must immediately be hunted (thus a player may 
not enter a space containing a prey if that player does not 
have the soldiers allowing the prey to be hunted or if the 
player does not wish to hunt that prey). To hunt the prey, 
the player must discard soldiers according to the prey (see 
below). The discarded soldiers are returned to the reserve. 
The player then takes the Prey token, places it next to their 
individual board and earns victory points and food cubes 
according to the prey hunted (the food cubes are placed in 
their stock). The worker can then continue its movement if 
it still had points remaining.
A) Ladybug: discard 1 soldier. Worth 2 food cubes.
B) Termite: discard 1 soldier. Worth 1 food cube and 2 
victory points.
C) Spider: discard 2 soldiers. Worth 1 food cube and 4 
victory points.
Example (cont’d): Red discards 1 Soldier (taken from 
the soldier room) to hunt the termite. They gain 1 food 
cube and 2 victory points. The player places the Prey 
token next to their individual board. The worker no lon-
ger has any movement points left but can still place a 
tile.
Place a pheromone: if the worker is on an empty 
space (with no Prey token and with no pheromone or 
special tile), the player can decide to place there 
a pheromone from their reserve. The maximum 
size that the player can place depends on the 
level of their ant colony:
The player must respect a few placement rules:
One of the hexes of the pheromone must be placed on 
the space on which the worker is, 
The pheromone cannot cover another tile, token or ex-
tend beyond the garden area,
The pheromone cannot be placed on a water space.
Example (cont’d): Red, whose ant colony is of level I 
decides to place a size 3 pheromone to end their action. 
The player places that pheromone on the space in which 
the worker is.
Once the pheromone is placed, the player then places on 
it the resource cubes (food, earth and stone) depending on 
what the pheromone covers. Spaces containing mushrooms 
are sterile and produce no cubes. If the pheromone scores 
victory points (all pheromones of a size greater than 2), the 
player immediately scores the points indicated on the pher-
omone. The worker is then discarded and the next player, 
going clockwise, begins using a worker.
Example (cont’d): Red places 1 food cube and 1 earth 
cube on the pheromone and scores 2 victory points, then 
discards the worker.
Placing a special tile: if the worker is on an empty 
space (with no Prey token or pheromone or special tile), the 
player can decide to place a special tile there. The kind of spe-
cial tile a player can install depends on the level of their ant 
colony:
A) Aphid farm
B) Scavenging
C) Sub-colony
The placement rules for special tiles are the same as those 
for pheromones. However, to be built, these special tiles re-
quire resource cubes.
Aphid farm: one cube of stone
Scavenging: one cube of food
Sub-colony: one cube of earth, stone and food.
Once the special tile is placed, the player places one of their 
cubes on it. This cube simply indicates that the special tile 
belongs to the player. Then the player scores the points cor-
responding to the placing of the tile and discards the worker. 
It’s then the next player’s turn to use a worker.
If the player has chosen the Level+1 event, they can use 
pheromones, power (storage, see End of turn) or special 
tiles of the higher level (for example, if their ant colony is 
at level 0, they can use pheromones of size 3 with the event 
or build a scavenging).
If the player has chosen the Hexagon+1 event, they can 
use pheromones of a level one higher. Moreover, if their 
ant colony is at level 3, they could potentially use the sole 
size 6 pheromone at their disposal.
Clear a pheromone: a worker who moves over an 
empty pheromone (one containing no cube) can decide to 
clear it. To do so, the player must discard one earth cube from 
their stockpile. The pheromone is then removed from the 
board and is removed from the game. The points indicated on 
the pheromone are not lost by the player.
Opposing pheromones: the empty pheromones of the 
other players can also be cleared (once again, the worker must 
be on a space of the pheromone the player would like to clean 
up). The cost is the same (one cube of earth). The action of 
cleaning up an opponent’s pheromone is worth any points 
printed on it. The player whose pheromone is cleaned loses 
no points.
Once the pheromone is cleared, the worker can resume its 
movement normally.
4) Harvest
Once all the players have played all of their workers, they 
move on to the harvest phase. The harvest phase is played 
simultaneously. On each of their non-empty pheromones on 
the board, the owner of that pheromone picks up a cube of 
their choice. This action is mandatory. The cubes thus picked 
up are placed in the players’ stockpile. Moreover:
Each Aphid farm earns one cube of food for its owner,
Each Scavenging earn the choice of one cube of earth 
or stone for its owner,
Each Sub-colony earns 2 victory points for its owner.
Harvest+3: if the player has chosen the Harvest+3 
event, that player can, after their normal harvest, pick 
up to 3 extra cubes of their choice present on their phero-
mones. These cubes are placed in their stockpile. This ac-
tion is not mandatory.
5) Atelier
 Once all the players have performed their harvest, play 
moves on to the atelier phase. This phase is played by each 
player in turn and only concerns players who have put one or 
more nurses in the atelier during phase 2. The players who 
have done so take the nurses in their atelier and place them 
in the atelier spaces of the main board. A player cannot place 
more than one nurse per space in the atelier (they will thus 
only be able to perform each action once per turn). If a player 
has placed multiple nurses in the atelier, the player freely 
chooses the order in which their actions are resolved.
The atelier has 4 spaces, which are:
Tunnel: the player who has placed a nurse in this atelier 
can place a new tunnel exit in the garden area and earns a 
cube of earth which they place in their stockpile. The new tun-
nel exit is represented by one of the 4 tokens of the player’s 
color and must be placed on an empty hexagon adjacent to 
one of the player’s elements on the board (pheromone, 
tunnel exit, special tile). This new tunnel exit will of-
fer the player a new option when having workers 
leave the colony during subsequent turns.
Tunnel
Objective
Ant colony level
New nurse

Note: a player cannot have more than 3 tunnels exits in 
addition to the starting one over the course of the game.
Example: Red places a new tunnel exit. It is placed 
on an adjacent space to one of their pheromones. More-
over, the player gets a cube of earth which is placed in 
their stockpile.
Ant colony levels: the player who has placed a nurse 
in this atelier can improve their ant colony. To do that, they 
must spend cubes of earth or stone.
Level 0 to 1: 2 cubes of earth,
Level 1 to 2: 1 cube of stone and 2 cubes of earth,
Level 2 to 3: 3 cubes of stone.
To indicate the new level of their ant colony, the player 
moves their ant colony disc to the new level reached. A 
player cannot skip a level (for example going from level 0 
to level 2) or dig 2 levels at once (even if that player has 
enough cubes to do so).
Example: Yellow improves their ant colony. They 
spend two cubes of earth from their stockpile and move 
the ant colony disc from level 0 to level 1.
New nurse: the player who has placed a nurse in this 
atelier makes a new nurse. To do that, they must spend 2 
cubes of food and two larvae from their stockpile and takes 
a new nurse from their reserve and places it in the nurse 
room of their individual board. This new nurse will be able 
to be used starting on the next turn. A player cannot make 
2 nurses, even if they have the resources to do so.
Objective: the player who has placed a nurse in this 
atelier can complete an objective. The objectives are 
divided into 3 levels (2 for each level). As their 
first objective, a player must complete a level 1 
objective. This will give them the ability to com-
plete an objective of level 2 (or lower) from then 
on, and once that objective is completed a level 3 objective 
(or lower). During the game, it is not possible to complete a 
given objective twice. Most objectives require that the play-
ers discard certain elements (see the detailed explanation 
of objectives on the last page). A player who completes an 
objective places their nurse on the first free space next to 
that objective and immediately scores the victory points 
indicated on that space (6 points for level 1 objectives, 9 
points for level 2 objectives, and 12 points for level 3 ob-
jectives). Moreover, if other players have completed that 
same objective in previous turns, these players each score 3 
points (this does not happen if the objective has been com-
pleted during the same atelier phase).
Example: Blue completes the “2 Preys” objective, the 
player discards 2 Prey tokens, places their nurse on the 
first free space and scores 6 points. As Red had already 
completed that objective in a previous turn, that player 
scores 3 points.
6) End of turn
The players perform this phase simultaneously.
They discard larvae which may have been used during 
phase 1.
They discard any excess cubes in their reserve: if their 
ant colony is of level 0 or 1, they can store up to 4 cubes of 
their choice and must discard any over that amount. If their 
ant colony is of level 2 or 3, they can store up to 6 cubes of 
their choice and must discard any over that amount. 
They regain the workers which have worked in their 
ant colony and return them to the worker room. 
They regain their nurses and return them to the nurse 
room of their individual board. However, the nurses used to 
complete objectives are not recovered.
The die of the season which has just finished is re-
moved from the main board.
The first player token is given to the player to the left of 
the current first player.
If they’ve just finished playing spring or summer, the 
players then return the event cube to the space correspond-
ing to the result of the die given for the upcoming season. 
If they’ve just played through fall, they then move on to the 
winter phase.
7) Winter
During winter, each player will have to spend food from 
their stockpile:
The first year, each player will have to discard 4 cubes 
of food,
The second year, each player will have to discard 5 
cubes of food,
The last year, each player will have to discard 6 cubes 
of food.
If a player doesn’t have a sufficient amount of cubes, that 
player loses 3 victory points for each missing cube.
Soldiers: each soldier a player has during winter allows 
that player to reduce the amount of cubes to be spent by 1. 
Soldiers are not discarded.
Example: It’s the winter of the second year, the players 
must thus discard 5 cubes of food. However, Yellow, who 
has two soldiers, only needs to discard 3.
End of the year
After winter, the year is over and a new year is begun. The 
Season dice are rerolled and the players replace the event 
cube according to the number shown by the spring die. A new 
turn begins.
End of the game
The game ends after the winter of the third turn. The player 
with the most victory points wins the game. In case of a tie, 
the tied players share the victory. 
Thanks
I’d like to thank these people, without whom Myrmes wouldn’t 
even exist: Céline, Carolle and Michaël, Mathieu, Vincent G. and 
Patrice. 
These people, thanks to whom Myrmes has found a publisher: 
Céline, Cyril, Vincent G., Karine and Stéphane. 
And finally, these people thanks to whom the game is what it 
is today: Céline, Cyril, Thomas, Arnaud, Vincent G., David, Davy, 
Etienne, Guillaume, Jérôme, Olivier, Stéphane, Suzel, Vincent 
C., Duncan, Marc as well as Manon et Léo. I’d like to especially 
thank the Les Ludochons association as well as all the players 
from Annecy, Lyon, Montpellier and Valmeinier who have taken 
part in playtesting.
2, 3 or 4 players
No matter what the number of players, the game rules re-
main identical with two exceptions:
The playing field and the starting spaces for the tunnels 
are adjusted depending on the number of players (see Start-
ing Spaces, on page 5).
With 3 players, the grayed out areas are not used:
With 2 players, the grayed out areas are not used:
The points scored by other players when completing 
an objective they’ve already completed vary according to the 
number of players (3 points with 4 players, 4 points with 3 
players and 5 points with 2 players – see the recapitula-
tive chart on the main board and on page 5).

Resource objectives: these objectives require, depending on 
the situation, the players to discard cubes of food (on the left 3), 
a mix (of the player’s choice) of cubes of earth and stone (in the 
middle 6), or cubes of stone (on the right 3). These cubes are 
returned to the reserve.
Larvae objectives: these objectives require players to 
discard larvae from their larvae room (on the left 5, and 
on the right 9). The cubes discarded are returned to the 
reserve.
Prey objectives: these objectives require the player to discard 
Prey tokens previously hunted and placed near their individual 
board (on the left 2, in the middle 3, and on the right 4). Tokens 
discarded are returned to the game box and thus a given token 
cannot be used for two different Prey objectives.
Soldier objective: this objective requires the player to 
discard 2 soldiers from their soldier room. The soldiers 
return to the player’s reserve.
Special tiles objectives: these objectives require the player 
to have built 2 (on the left) or 3 (on the right) special tiles of 
any type (including a special tile which has been built twice or 
thrice). To validate the objective on the left, the player removes 
from the tile of their choice the cube showing they own the tile. 
The tile remains on the board, but is now useless. To validate 
the objective on the right, the player must remove from 2 tiles 
of their choice the cubes showing they own the tile. These tiles 
remain on the board but are now useless.
Ant colony level objectives: these objectives require players 
to reach a certain level with their ant colony and move their ant 
colony disc back. To validate the left objective the player’s ant 
colony must be at least level II and the ant colony disc must be 
moved back one level. To validate the right objective the player’s 
ant colony must be at least level III and the ant colony disc must 
be moved back 2 levels. The new level thus defined is immedi-
ately active (notably in regards to the storage of cubes).
Nurse objectives: to validate the objective on the left, 
the player must have 6 nurses in play (including those 
used to complete objectives) and discard one which is 
not used to indicate the successful completion of an ob-
jective. To validate the objective on the right, the player 
must have 8 nurses in play (including those used to com-
plete objectives) and discard two which aren’t used to 
indicate the successful completion of an objective. The 
nurse(s) discarded are returned to the player’s reserve.
Pheromone objectives: to validate the objective on 
the left, the player must have 4 or more connected phero-
mones (special tiles and tunnels do not count) and imme-
diately empty these 4 pheromones of their cubes (which 
are returned to the reserve). To validate the objective 
on the right, the player must have 7 or more connected 
pheromones (special tiles and tunnels do not count) and 
immediately empty these 7 pheromones of their cubes 
(which are returned to the reserve). The number of cubes 
on the pheromone aren’t taken into consideration 
and a player can thus complete the objective on 
the left by choosing 4 pheromones devoid of 
any cubes (they simply need to be connected).
Objectives