For 3-6 players
Ages 8 and above
60-90 minutes
For 3-6 players
Ages 8 and above
60-90 minutes
Bruno Faidutti & Serge Laget
Bruno Faidutti & Serge Laget

he peaceful Templars’ Abbey is a rare haven of tranquility for road weary
travelers. And so you found it when you arrived late last night. That seren-
ity was shattered this morning with the discovery of the lifeless body of
Brother Adelmo at the foot of the Monastery cliffs. Did the usually nimble-footed
Brother slip to his death? Or did someone help him in his fall? All signs point to
foul play… and the Abbot has asked you and your companions to investigate
and find the answer to the question, “Who killed Brother Adelmo?”
COMPONENTS
Inside the box rest:
• 1 Board map representing the Templars' Abbey
• 6 Monk miniatures cast in stone resin (1 per player)
• 6 Deduction notebooks (1 per player)
• 90 Illustrated cards:
• 1 pad of 50 Suspect sheets
• 3 Wooden Monk dice
• 1 Mass bell for calling the monks to Mass
• 1 Rules booklet
• 1 Days of Wonder WebCard
SETTING UP THE GAME 
✣Place the Abbey’s board map in the center of the table.
✣ Each player chooses a colored monk miniature and puts it in the Chapel (Ecclesia).
These miniatures will be the players’ pawns throughout the game.
✣ Place a color Suspect sheet inside a Deduction notebook and give it to each player. The
Deduction notebooks are used to hide the players’ Suspect sheets from each other. They also display a
summary of the Abbey’s various rooms, and (under the suspect sheet) some common investigation strategies.
✣ Separately shuffle each stack of Library books, Scriptorium books, and Event cards, and place them face down
on the board, in their respective positions. Put the Crypt cards in their respective spot as well. Cards played through-
out the game are then placed back under their respective pile.
✣ Shuffle the 24 Suspect cards, and place one, face down, under the Abbey’s game board. This is the culprit, whose iden-
tity players will compete to discover.
✣ Place 5 (if three or six players)or 3 (if four or five players)Suspect cards face down
on the matching suspect position in the upper corner of the Abbey’s board. 
✣ Deal all remaining suspect cards to the players:
• 3 players – 6 cards each
• 4 players – 5 cards
• 5 players – 4 cards
• 6 players – 3 cards
✣ Give the Mass bell and the eight Mass cards, stacked in chronological order
(Matins, Lauds, Prime, Terce, Sexte, None, Vespers and Compline) to
the first player (determined by rolling one of the Monk dice).
If the dice shows the color of one of the monks that is
not in play, re-roll until it does. The same rule will
apply to all dice rolls throughout the game.
✣ The first player puts the Mass cards in front of him. At the beginning
of his first turn, he will place the bell on the circled 1 on the topmost
Matins card.
✣ Two dice are now rolled to determine the last two monks
who have been to confession. Place one dice each in the two
confessionals. 
You are now ready to explore the Abbey and discover
the murderous culprit!
OBJECT OF THE GAME 
An important stop on the pilgrimage to Saint-Jacques, the
Abbey of the Templars is currently home to twenty-four
monks. These monks have traits and physical charac-
teristics as diverse as the orders they represent.
Each monk has five important characteristics:
- Order: Templar, Franciscan, Benedictine • 8 monks
of each order
- Title:Father, Brother, Novice • 6, 9 and 9 respectively
- Hood: hooded, unhooded • 12 each
- Facial Hair: bearded, clean-shaven • 12 each
- Girth: fat, thin • 12 each
Each investigator’s job is to carefully question the monastery’s
inhabitants and search through the Abbey’s various rooms to accu-
rately uncover and reveal the specific characteristics (order, title,
hood, facial hair and girth), and the name of the culprit. 
Players accumulate victory points for accurately revealing the culprit’s spe-
cific characteristics (correct order, title, hood, facial hair and girth) and name. 
They lose points when making an
incorrect revelation or accusation. The rev-
elations and accusations are recorded throughout the
game; the corresponding victory points attributed and totaled at
the end of the game, once the culprit has been caught. 
The winner is the player with the highest number of points
then (often, but not always, the one who found the culprit).
Note: the following rules are written for 3 – 5 players. Rule changes
for 6 players are described at the end of this booklet, page 8.
Suspects cards
Event
cards
1st Player 
3rd Player 
2nd Player
4th Player
cards
Sriptorium
book cards
book cards
Mass cards
Regroup monks 
in Ecclesia
Place monk dices 
into Confessionals
GOSPEL
OF JUDAS
W
hat a mess in this
heretical text!
Exchange all your suspect
cards with those of another
player of your choice.
F
E
M
P
L
A
R
Father 
MATTHEW
CRYPT
he Holy Relics of Saint
Galbert transport you.
Use this card later in the
game to immediately play an
extra turn after finishing your
normal turn.
All pawns go to the Chapel
(Ecclesia)
Each player gives 2 suspect
cards to his left neighbor
Draw an 
event card
MASS
LAUDS
LAUDS
DAILY TASKS
he Abbot distributes 
the daily tasks of the
monastery (mopping the
floors, lighting the candles,
feeding the pigs, etc …)
among the monks.
Roll the die three times 
to determine three different
pawns. The first one is sent 
to clean the Chapter Hall
(Capitulum), the second one 
to mop the Parlor
(Parlatorium) and the third
one to scrub the Scriptorium.
DE ALCHEMIA
his book is so
fascinating that you
forgot to go to Mass.
Keep this card and play it to
skip Mass. Your pawn stays 
in its current position. 
You neither receive nor give
any suspect card. You are
skipped and the player on
your right gives cards to the
player on your left.
24 Suspect cards 
8 Library book cards 
6 Crypt cards 
18 Event cards 
24 Scriptorium book cards 
8 Mass cards
Father
WILLIAM
E
M
P
L
A
R
F
TITLE & NAME
ORDER
Title Letter
Hood
Hood
Unhooded
Bearded
Fat
Thin
Clean
shaven
Facial Hair
Girth

A GAME TURN
Players play in successive turns, clockwise, starting with the first player of the turn. Each turn consists of the following:
1. Move Mass Bell(first player in turn only) -If you are the first player of the turn, move the bell one spot (from
➀to ➁, from ➁to ➂, etc…) on the topmost Mass card. If the bell is already on ➃, move it off the card,
immediately call the Mass, and apply the Mass card’s effects. (See Mass page 7).
2. Move Pawn -Move your pawn one or two steps in any direction on the board. Each room of the Abbey is delin-
eated by a color change on the floor and counts as one step, regardless of the room’s size. The move is manda-
tory and a 2-step move cannot be used to immediately come back to the same room.
3. Encounter - If your pawn ends its move in a room already occupied by another player’s pawn, you must ask
that player a question. (See The Questions, below).
4. Action - Proceed with any actions relevant to the room your pawn now occupies.
QUESTIONING OTHERS
If your pawn ends its move in a room already occupied by another player’s pawn, you must ask that player a ques-
tion. If multiple pawns are present, you may choose to question whichever player you want.
The questioned player may either:
1. Make a vow of silence by putting his finger to his mouth, thus declining to answer; or
2. Answer your question, in which case he will then also get to ask you a question in return. You are then
bound to answer that question.
As all players have taken a vow of honesty, all questions must be answered truthfully, to the best of the players’ knowl-
edge or recollection. 
You may ask any kind of question, as long as it can be answered without giving a suspect’s name. You may, however,
supply one or more names as part of your question. 
Examples of questions:
— “How many bearded monks do you have in your hand?”
— “Do you have the ‘Father Sergio’ card?”
— “How many Benedictines have you crossed out from your suspects’ list?”
— “Have you eliminated ‘Father Bruno’ from your list of suspects?”
— “Are you going to Chapter Hall?” (Obviously, your opponent is then bound by his answer).
For further examples of questioning tactics and strategies, draw from the experience of famous investigative monks
like those featured on the inside cover of your Deduction notebook.
ROOMS IN THE MONASTERY
Different activities take place in various rooms within the Abbey. Below is a description of the rooms
and what takes place in each of them. 
Note: The board is labeled in the common language of the Abbey – Latin. For the convenience of those
who were sleeping during Latin class, the room names and their Latin equivalents are provided in English.
• THE CHAPEL (Ecclesia)
The Chapel is where all players start the game. This is also where all players return for Mass, every time
they have played through four complete turns. 
• CONFESSIONAL (Confessorium)
The Confessional is where both sins and secrets are revealed. Randomly draw a Suspect card from the
hand of the last player who visited this same confessional, as indicated by the color of the monk dis-
played on the upturned face of the dice. 
Then, turn the dice to your own pawn’s color, to show that you are now the last player to
have gone through this confessional.
There may be only one pawn at a time in each confessional. 
Beware: One of the confessionals can only be entered through the Courtyard (Aula), not
directly from the Chapel.
• CELLS (Cellula)
A Monk expects his cell to remain private. If you dare a visit, you may randomly draw a
Suspect card from the hand of the cell’s owner, indicated by the color of the cell. There may
be only one pawn at a time in each cell. 
Beware: the owner of a cell may enter it even if there is already another pawn in it. In this
Chapel
The Chapel 
Confessionals
The Chapel 
Confessionals
Cells
Cells
Yard
Confessional
Confessional

case, the intruder is caught in the act. He must immediately give back the card he took from the cell’s owner (if he
doesn’t have this card anymore, then another card is drawn randomly from his hand). The intruder is then moved
to the Chapel for Penance (See Penance on page 7-8).
• SCRIPTORIUM
There’s no telling what secrets a lucky monk might learn from a book found in the Scriptorium. Take
a “Scriptorium” card.
✣Special books, (designated by a star on the card) can be removed from the scriptorium.
Don’t show the card but keep it in front you, face down, to use it at the appropriate time
indicated on the card.
✣ For plain books, (no star) read the card’s text aloud. Its effects apply immediately.
If there is a die on the card, roll a die to determine which other player is effected.
• LIBRARY (Bibliotheca) 
The most precious books and forbidden texts are kept out of sight in a remote alcove of the library.
Only the players with the fewest cards in hand can step into the library. This means that, to enter the library, a play-
er must make sure that: 1. no other player has fewer cards in hand than he does, and 2. at least one player has more
cards in hand than he does.
A player may only visit the library once during the entire game.
When you are within the library, draw a “Bibliotheca” card and read the text aloud. Its effects apply
immediately.
• PARLOR (Parlatorium) 
News from the secular world outside of the Abbey arrive in the Parlor.
✣ If there are still Suspect cards in the suspects draw pile on the game board, draw the first one and
add it to your hand.
✣If there are no Suspect cards remaining, you may ask the player of your choice to show you a Suspect card.You must
specify one or two (no more) characteristics of the Suspect card you want to see (i.e. “ Show me a Templar ” or “
Show me a bearded novice ”). If the questioned player has one or more cards of
the specified type, he shows you one (and only one). If he has none, he may say
so and does not have to reveal any cards. The vow of honesty still applies here.
• CRYPT (Crypta)
Praying over the holy relics of Saint Galbert, entombed within the Crypt, fills you
with rapture!
Draw a “Crypta” card. You may use later at any time during the game to immediately play an extra turn after ful-
filling your normal turn. Each player may only have one Crypta card at a time. 
• CHAPTER HALL (Capitulum)
The great meetings of the Abbey take place in the Chapter Hall. You may make a Revelation orbring
an Accusation. You have no obligation to do either. 
• COURTYARD (Aula),
• CLOISTER (Claustrum) 
and other empty rooms...
These rooms provide living space for the Abbey’s inhabitants, but have no other
purpose. Moving through them counts as one of the two steps you are granted
each turn. Please note that the Cloister is made of four distinct, separate spaces.
EVENTS IN THE MONASTERY’S LIFE
Mass
Despite the customary silence, rumors circulate best during services. Mass is held in the Chapel (Ecclesia), every four
turns, and marks the rhythm of monastic life. During Mass:
1. The pawns of all the players are placed in the Chapel (Ecclesia). 
2. Each player simultaneously gives one or more suspect cards, as indicated by the Mass card, to the player on
his left. If a player does not have enough suspect cards in hand, he just gives all the ones he had, keeping the
ones he receives.
3. An event card (designated with an illustration of the Abbey on its back) is drawn, its text read aloud, and its
effect applied immediately. Some events, as shown by a die on the card will only affect a specific player
or room, determined by a dice roll.
4. Give the deck of Mass cards and bell to the player who played last during the previous game turn (i.e. the play-
er sitting to the immediate right of the player who called Mass). This player becomes the first player of the
new turn. At the beginning of his first turn, he moves the Mass card that was just played to the bottom of the
deck, revealing the next one and placing the bell on the ➀position.
Revelations
Monks can go to the Abbot who presides over the Chapter Hall (Capitulum) to make a revelation. A revelation is a
public announcement to all the players that you have discovered one(and only one) characteristic of the guilty monk. 
All revelations are written down on a piece of paper, and verified at the end of the game, once the culprit has been
revealed. Each correct revelation is worth +2 points, each false revelation –1 point.
✣These are valid revelations: “The culprit is a Franciscan”, “The culprit has no hood”, “The culprit is a Father”.
✣These are invalidrevelations: “The culprit is a bearded Franciscan” (you must specify only one characteristic), “The
culprit is not a novice” (you must positively specify a characteristic, the negative declaration doesn’t reveal
whether it is a Father or a Brother).
You cannot make a revelation that has already been made, but you can make a revelation that contradicts a previ-
ous one. If another player revealed that the culprit is Benedictine you cannot make the same statement, but you
may announce that he is a Franciscan.
Accusation 
No accusation can be made as long as there are still Suspect cards to be had from going into the parlor.
To make an Accusation, a monk must visit the Abbot in the Chapter Hall (Capitulum) and publicly name the monk
he suspects is the culprit. 
If the accused monk’s card is in another player’s hand, this player must show it to all to prove that the accused is
innocent. The pawn of the accuser who wronged him is then moved to the Chapel for Penance (see below), and
the player who made the unjust accusation loses 2 points.
If no player has the accused monk card in hand, the accused must be guilty (confirmed by the card hidden under
the game board). The game ends and the player who correctly named the culprit scores 4 points.
Calculate each player’s score. (See Scoring below) The player with the highest score is declared the winner. In the
event of a tie, the player who found the culprit is the winner.
Penance
A player caught in the act of searching another player’s cell or making a false accusation must repent. The same applies
to the first player if he forgets to move the Mass bell (or call Mass every fourth turn) at the beginning of his turn,
before moving his pawn. 
By common agreement, players may also decide to impose a penance on a player who makes a mistake by playing
out of turn, asking a forbidden question, or gets too excited and spills consecrated wine, coffee or whisky on the
game board. 

The pawn in penance is placed in the Chapel (Ecclesia) where he must spend a whole turn praying. He therefore skips
his next turn, and may neither ask nor answer questions while there. If a pawn goes to penance just before the Mass,
he must skip his first turn after Mass.
Scoring
The winner is the player with the most points (not necessarily the one who found the culprit). When the culprit is
discovered, players calculate the score as follows:
• Each right revelation +2
• Each wrong revelation -1
• Discovery of the culprit (correct accusation) + 4
• Each false accusation -2
In the event of a tie, the winner is the player who discovers the culprit. Players may decide to play multiple games
and add the total number of points to determine the overall winner.
SIX-PLAYER GAME
With six players, all the standard rules apply, with the following exceptions:
✣During your turn, you can move your pawn one, two or three steps rather than the usual one or two.
✣There are only three turns between each mass. The Mass bell starts on the ➁of each newly uncovered Mass card.
VARIANTS
Players who want a less uncertain, more tactical, game can modify the rules as follows:
✣Close the Library and burn those dangerous books.
✣Remove all event cards.
✣A player with two books in hand may not step into the Scriptorium.
Shorter game variant
✣Use the six-player movement and turn rules.
✣Remove the Matins Mass card and start the game with the Laud cards.
BLANK CARDS
Use the enclosed blank cards to design additional Scriptorium book or Event cards of your choice. Do not hesitate
to post your best suggestions on our forum at www.mysteryoftheabbey.com.
WEB CARD
Enclosed in your game box is a free Days of Wonder
WebCard. To use it, visit: www.mysteryoftheabbey.com
and click on the New Player Signup button on the home
page. Then just follow the instructions.
The mysteryoftheabbey.com website is filled with infor-
mation: discussions of effective investigation strate-
gies; links to the authors’ web sites; and a forum where
you can keep up with the latest game information, new
books and events developed by other players, rules
variations, and more.
You can also learn about other Days of Wonder games
or visit us at: www.daysofwonder.com
CREDITS
Game design by Bruno Faidutti and Serge Laget
Illustrations by Julien Delval and Emmanuel Roudier
Graphic Design by Cyrille Daujean
Bibliography: Umberto Eco, The Name of the Rose; 
Ellis Peters, the “Brother Cadfael” mysteries; 
Paul Harding, the “Brother Athelstan” mysteries.
© 2003 Days of Wonder, Inc. 221 Caledonia Street,
Sausalito, CA 94965
Days of Wonder and Mystery of the Abbey are trademarks of 
Days of Wonder, Inc. All Rights Reserved.