RULES
RULES
It takes courage to enter the manor of Mysterium… and yet, here you are. How brave of you. Take a seat at the table, open 
your mind, and keep your sixth sense awake: you are about to take part in a unique séance, using spiritism to try to 
calm a tormented soul.
Oleksandr Nevskiy
& Oleg Sidorenko 
 Xavier Collette
& Igor Burlakov

At Samhain night (Halloween), worlds of the visible and of the invisible 
merge, allowing the living to establish a link with ‘the other world’. Conrad 
MacDowell chose that very night to gather his psychic friends for a unique 
séance. Using spiritism, they’ll try to communicate with the dead…
 A ghost has been haunting the Warwick Manor for years. Little is known about them, 
other than that they were murdered in dark circumstances. Who was there? Where did it happen? 
How were they killed? Conrad and his team decided to meet to try to resolve the crime once and for all, following 
different leads, but working together. 
Unfortunately, the ghost cannot talk. They can only communicate through visions. All suspects need to be identified so 
that the ghost remembers the culprit. Only then will the psychics discover the truth, and free the ghost from their torments. 
They have until dawn to do that, and not one minute more – if they fail, the ghost will wander in limbo for eternity… 
Game Overview
Mysterium is a cooperative game: all players win or lose together. They share a common objective: interpret the ghost’s visions, and discover what happened and how 
the ghost was killed. Before starting the game, players should first select their role: either the Ghost or a Psychic. Depending on their role, they will each play differently.
The Ghost (one player) must guide the Psychics throughout their investigation. The Ghost knows the suspect, location and object that each Psychic must find (see 
below). To communicate with them, the Ghost uses only illustrated cards: the Vision Cards.
The Psychics (all other players) must follow a lead to their personal objective: each one must find the suspect, location and object that were assigned to them. They 
work together to interpret the Vision Cards given by the Ghost.
Playing Tips
• For a better experience, a player already familiar with the game should play as the Ghost for your first game. 
• For a more immersive game, the Ghost may choose to knock on the table (rather than saying yes or no) 
when they want to tell the Psychics whether their choices are correct or not: one knock for yes, two knocks 
for no. 
• For an even more immersive game, make sure to download the official atmospheric soundtrack available on 
our website (Mysterium page) or via this QR code.

Game Components: The Ghost
1 Screen
84 Vision Cards
6 Ghost Tokens 
(1 in each color, back 
numbered 1 to 6)
6 Culprit Tokens
(back numbered 1 to 6)
3 Crow Tokens
6 Intuition Pawns 
Game Components: The Psychics
Other Game Components
6 Sleeves 
6 Clairvoyancy Level Tokens 
36 Clairvoyancy Tokens 
(6 in each color, incl. 3 
 and 3 
, and numbered 1 to 6)
1 Clock Board (to assemble)
1 Hourglass
3 Progress Boards 
(Character, Location and Object)
1 Clairvoyancy Track and Final 
Progress Board
18 Character Psychic Cards
 (1 to 18)
18 Location Psychic Cards 
(19 to 36)
18 Object 
Psychic Cards 
(37 to 54)
Game Storage
18 Character Ghost Cards
(1 to 18)
18 Location Ghost 
Cards (19 to 36)
18 Object Ghost Cards
(37 to 54)

Game Setup
Decide who will be the Ghost for the game. That player takes the Screen 1 and places 
it in front of them so that no other player can see the inside. Then they place the Vision 
Cards 2 and the Ghost Tokens 
3 behind the Screen. The Culprit Tokens 4 are 
placed next to the Ghost. The Ghost receives as many Crow Tokens 5 as instructed, 
depending on the difficulty level (see table).
The Psychics choose a character (associated to a color) and take the matching Sleeve 
6 They receive Clairvoyancy Tokens 7 depending on the total number of Psychics.
1-2 Psychics => none
3-4 Psychics => 4 tokens (numbered 1 to 4)
5-6 Psychics => 6 tokens (numbered 1 to 6)
If you are more than 3 players, place the Clairvoyancy Track 8 in front of the Screen. 
Make sure you use the proper side of the track, depending on the number of players.
4- 5 players: 
 
 / 6-7 players: 
 
 
Place all Clairvoyancy Level Tokens 9 on 0 on the Clairvoyancy Track.
Place the Hourglass 10 next to the Screen and the Clairvoyancy Track, within easy 
reach of the Ghost.
Assemble the Clock Board 11 and place it within easy reach of the Psychics.
Shuffle the 18 Character Psychic Cards 12 . Draw as many cards as instructed on the 
table above, depending on the difficulty level and the number of players. Unused cards 
are placed back in the box.
Check the cards and announce their numbers to the Ghost. The Ghost then takes the 
matching cards (with the matching numbers) from their own Character Ghost Cards 
deck 13 . Unused cards are placed back in the box. 
Place the Character Psychic Cards that you drew on the table 
14 and place the 
Character Progress Board as instructed 15 . 
The Ghost now keeps as many Character Ghost Cards as there are Psychics in play 
and places these cards in the top line of their Screen 16 , assigning one character to each 
Psychic. Extra cards are secretly discarded: the Psychics must not see them!
Repeat that process with the Location and Object Psychic Cards, and the Location and 
Object Ghost Cards (middle and bottom line). Once the Screen is complete, you should 
have one character, one location, and one object for each Psychic, arranged in a column 
of their color.
Reminder: Only the Ghost can see the inside of the Screen!
Place the Intuition Pawns on the Character Progress Board 17 . 
The Ghost draws 7 Vision Cards to form their starting hand.
You are now ready to play Mysterium!
Number of Character/Location/Object 
Psychic Cards in each mode
Number of 
Psychics
Number of 
Crow Tokens 
per turn
per game
per game
EASY
MEDIUM
HARD

Playing the Game
Goal of this phase: during setup, the Ghost assigned a Character, a Location and an Object to each Psychic, forming different columns in the Screen. Each Psychic 
has a personal objective: finding their Character, their Location and their Object.
This phase lasts 7 turns. By the end of the 7 turns: 
• if all Psychics completed their personal objective, move to Phase 2.
• if one or several Psychics did not complete their objective, the game ends up in a defeat for everybody.
Step 1 : Interpreting the Visions
During this step, the Ghost creates visions and 
send them to the Psychics. The Psychics can 
(and should) discuss them to find their hidden 
meaning.
First, the Ghost chooses one of the Psychics. 
Depending on the position of the Psychic‘s 
Intuition Pawn (Character, Location or Object 
Progress Track), the Ghost knows whether or 
not the Psychic made any progress towards their 
personal objective, and which type of card they 
should guess. The card that the Psychic has to 
guess appears in the Ghost’s Screen.
The Ghost then creates a vision so that the 
Psychic finds the correct card among the cards 
of the table (i.e. the one that matches the card 
hidden behind the Screen). To create a vision, the 
Ghost may use one or several Vision Cards from 
their hand.
Once the Ghost has created their vision, they give 
the chosen Vision Card(s) to that Psychic face 
up, and push the Ghost Token matching that 
Psychic’s color against the Screen to mark that 
this Psychic now received their vision. A Psychic 
cannot receive more that one vision on each turn.
Then, the Ghost immediately draws new 
Vision Cards until they have 7 cards 
in hand. If the drawing pile runs out, 
shuffle the discarded Vision Cards 
to create a new pile.
Example: Alexandre’s Intuition Pawn (yellow) is on the Location Progress Track. The Ghost checks 
the middle line of their Screen and notes that Alexandre is supposed to find the Location Card “Attic” 
on this turn.
Example of vision: The Ghost wants Alexandre to find the “Attic”. This card features a white 
wedding dress. The Ghost chooses the card A from their hand (because of the woman in a 
white dress) and completes the vision with the card B (because of its strange, bluish atmosphere) 
and the card C (spider webs and dust).
Phase 1 - Reconstruction of Events
The Game Turn
A
B
C

Important: As the Ghost, you may listen to the Psychics, but you may not comment on their choices, nor gesture, nor try to communicate hints in any way.
Once the Ghost has drawn their new cards, they choose another Psychic and repeat this process, until all Psychics have received their Vision Cards for this turn. 
As soon as the last Psychic has received a vision, the Ghost turns over the Hourglass (time: 2 minutes).
As soon a Psychic receives their Vision Cards, they can look at them and show them to the other Psychics. Together, they can try to interpret the cards to deduce 
which card (Character, Location or Object, depending on their Progress Track and Intuition Pawn) they are supposed to identify. Psychics can talk to each other 
without restriction – they simply cannot talk to the Ghost. 
Note: Psychics may start to discuss and even place their pawns and tokens as soon as they receive their cards, even if the Hourglass has not yet been turned over. 
All Psychics try to resolve the vision that they received. They must place 
their Intuition Pawn before the time runs out. As long as there is time 
remaining, Psychics may change their mind and move their Intuition 
Pawn; their decision is final once the time is up.
Note: Several Psychics may place their Intuition Pawn on the 
same card. However, this means that at least one of them is wrong, 
because each Psychic has a unique combination of cards (Character, 
Location, Object).
When a Psychic thinks that they have identified the correct Character, Location or Object Card, they place their Intuition Pawn on that card. Even if you remain free to 
discuss with the others, placing your pawn is your own decision. You may listen to your partners, but you may also ignore them if you think they are wrong.
Discarding Vision Cards
Creating a vision might be difficult. As the Ghost, you may want to discard your hand to replace it with more inspiring cards. If you want 
to do so, place one of your Crow Tokens on your Screen. Discard up to 7 cards and draw the same number of cards to replace them.
You can discard cards at any time; however, you can only use the Crow a limited number of times, depending on the difficulty level 
that you chose. If you run out of Crow Tokens, then you can no longer discard your Vision Cards to replace them.
Example: 
Alexandre 
received 
three Vision Cards from the Ghost 
to identify a Location. Most of the 
Psychics want to go for the attic, 
but Alexandre is convinced that 
the correct card is the bedroom. 
He decides to ignore the other 
Psychics and place his pawn on 
the bedroom card.

Using the Clairvoyancy Tokens (3 to 6 Psychics)
As a Psychic, you have a set of Clairvoyancy Tokens (
 and 
) in your color. Use these tokens when you agree 
 or disagree 
 
with another Psychic about the choice that they made when placing their Intuition Pawn on a card. 
To express that you agree with another Psychic about their choice, place one of your 
 Clairvoyancy Tokens next to the 
Intuition Pawn of that Psychic. The Clairvoyancy Token must point to the chosen Intuition Pawn (because there can be several 
Intuition Pawns on the same card). If on the other hand, you want to express that you disagree with another Psychic, use a 
Clairvoyancy Token instead.
• You cannot place a Clairvoyancy Token on your own Intuition Pawn.
• You cannot place several Clairvoyancy Tokens on the same Intuition Pawn. You may however place several Clairvoyancy 
Tokens on several Intuition Pawns on the same card.
• You may use, move and withdraw your Clairvoyancy Tokens until the time runs out.
• You may use as many Clairvoyancy Tokens as you want in a turn (including none, if you don’t want to play them).
Important: any Clairvoyancy Token should be discarded on the Clock Board upon use. As a Psychic, make sure to use your 
tokens wisely, as you do not have an unlimited amount of tokens. All Clairvoyancy Tokens are recovered at the beginning of the 
fourth turn, though.
Agreeing with the correct intuitions and disagreeing with the wrong intuitions allow you to progress on the Clairvoyancy Track. 
A high level of clairvoyancy is very useful in Phase 2. The more a Psychic progresses on the Clairvoyancy Track, the easier that 
phase will be.
Example: Mathieu agrees with Alexandre and 
places one of his 
 Clairvoyancy Token next 
to Alexandre’s Intuition Pawn. Léa does not 
agree with Alexandre and places one of her 
Clairvoyancy Tokens instead.
When the Hourglass runs out, Step 1 is over. Proceed to Step 2 of the current turn.
Step 2 : Spectral Manifestation
During this step, the Ghost let the Psychics know whether or not they correctly interpreted their visions. 
The Ghost chooses one of the Psychics. They check the Intuition Pawn of that Psychic and let them know whether or not they chose the correct card, 
without commenting further. To check if the card is correct, the Ghost should compare it with the card hidden behind their Screen.

If, as a Psychic, you chose the correct card: 
• Each Psychic that placed a 
 Clairvoyancy Token next to your Intuition 
Pawn move their Clairvoyancy Level Token one space forward.
• For Psychics that placed a 
 Clairvoyancy Token, nothing happens.
• All used Clairvoyancy Tokens are discarded to the Clock Board on the 
matching colored spots.
• Move your Intuition Pawn to the next Progress Board. In every game of 
Mysterium, you’ll always need to find your Character first, then your Location, 
then your Object.
• Take the card that you correctly identified and slide it into your Sleeve, while 
the Ghost flips the matching Ghost Card in their screen to keep track of your 
progress.
• Discard all of your Vision Cards.
• The Ghost moves your Ghost Token back from the Screen.
If, as a Psychic, you chose any other card: 
• Each Psychic that placed a 
 Clairvoyancy Token next to your Intuition 
Pawn move their Clairvoyancy Level Token one space forward.
• For Psychics that placed a 
 Clairvoyancy Token, nothing happens.
• All used Clairvoyancy Tokens are discarded to the Clock Board on the 
matching colored spots.
• Move your Intuition Pawn back to the Progress Board where it was at the 
beginning of your turn.
• Keep all of your Vision Cards. The Ghost will complete your vision with new 
cards on the next turn.
• The Ghost moves your Ghost Token back from the Screen.
Example: The Ghost lets Alexandre know that he chose the 
wrong card. Mathieu had placed a 
 Clairvoyancy Token on 
Alexandre’s Intuition Pawn because he believed he was correct; 
as a result he simply discards that token. Léa however suspected 
that Alexandre was wrong and had placed a 
 Clairvoyancy 
Token. Léa discards that token too, but since she correctly 
predicted Alexandre’s mistake, she moves her Clairvoyancy 
Level Token one space forward on the Clairvoyancy Track.
Alexandre was wrong; as a result, his Intuition 
Pawn goes back to the Location Progress 
Board where it already was at the beginning 
of his turn. He also keeps his Vision Cards, 
hoping that the next ones will help him to find 
the right Location.
The Ghost then moves Alexandre’s 
Ghost Token back from the Screen. 
On the next turn, the Ghost will give 
new cards so that Alexandre can 
find the attic. 

Personal Objective
If a Psychic finds their assigned Object, after finding their Character and their Location, they completed their personal objective. 
When you complete your personal objective: 
• Move your Intuition Pawn on the final Progress Board to indicate that you completed your personal objective.
• Move forward your Clairvoyancy Level Token as many spaces as there are turns remaining (check the number of remaining 
hours on the Clock Board). If you completed your objective on the last turn, then you don’t move.
• On future turns, if any, you may help the other Psychics, but you don’t receive any more visions from the Ghost. 
• You may still place Clairvoyancy Tokens to progress on the Clairvoyancy Track.
• The Ghost should set aside your Ghost Token. It won’t be needed until the end of the game.
Example: On the fourth turn, Alexandre finds his Object. He puts the matching card into his Sleeve and places his 
Intuition Pawn on the final Progress Board.
Since there are 3 turns remaining before the end of the game (7 turns), Alexandre moves his Clairvoyancy Level Token 
3 spaces forward on the Clairvoyancy Track.
Then, the Ghost chooses another Psychic and lets them know whether or not they found the correct card, and so on until all Psychics have been addressed. Since 
each Psychic moves at their own rhythm, they may be on different Progress Boards: some will advance, others will stall. Then, the turn ends. When the turn ends,
• If one or several Psychics have not yet completed their personal objectives, a new turn begins. Move the clock hand one hour forward. If the hand was on the 
last hour (end of the 7th turn), then the game is lost for everyone.
• If all Psychics have completed their personal objective, move to Step 2.
Note: Psychics should not forget to recover all Clairvoyancy Tokens at the beginning of the fourth turn!
Phase 2 - Revealing the Culprit
Goal of this phase: each Psychic’s personal objective is a possible scenario: a culprit (Character), a Location and an Object. Thanks to this reconstruction, 
the Ghost now remembers what happened during the night of the murder, and send a last vision to the group so that the Psychics can identify the culprit, 
location and object of the crime. They have only one chance to find the correct answer.
Important: This phase only takes place if all Psychics managed to complete their personal objectives before the end of the 7th turn.

Step 1: Suspect Line-Up
During this step, you need to prepare a new setup for this phase. 
1- Set aside the Progress Boards as they are no longer needed. Also set aside the Psychic Cards that are 
still on the table (which were not assigned to any Psychic).
2- Each Psychic removes the cards from their Sleeve to form a group of three cards: Character, Location, 
and Object. 
3- Each Psychic receives a Ghost Token and places it next to their group of 3 cards with its numbered side 
facing up. 
4- The Ghost takes as many numbered Culprit Tokens as there are groups on the table (4 groups = 4 
tokens numbered 1 to 4).
5- The Ghost flips back all the Ghost Cards in their Screen (as the Ghost, you need to see all of these 
cards).
6- The Psychics recover all of their Clairvoyancy Tokens.
Step 2: Shared Vision
During this step, the Ghost sends their last vision of the game. Their goal is to make sure that the Psychics 
find the Culprit’s group among those available on the table.
• The Ghost secretly chooses a numbered group. Psychics will need to find that group to win the 
game.
• The Ghost now takes the matching Culprit Token and places it face down on the appropriated spot 
of the Clairvoyancy Track.
• Then, the Ghost creates a vision with 3 Vision Cards. One of the cards must be a hint to the group’s 
Character, another one to the group’s Location, and another one to the group’s Object.
• The Ghost shuffles these 3 Vision Cards and places them face down in front of the Psychics. The 
Psychics cannot know which cards refer to which element (Character, Location or Object).
Note: if the Ghost still has any Crow Tokens during this step, they are allowed to discard up to 7 cards to 
replace their hand, as usual.
Step 3: Straw Poll
During this Step, the Psychics vote for the group which they identified as the Culprit’s group, using the 
shared vision sent by the Ghost. However, they are not allowed to communicate, and each vote must 
remain secret.
The vote is subdivided in 3 steps, depending on each Psychic’s Clairvoyancy Level. The more that a Psychic 
has advanced on the Clairvoyancy Track, the more Vision Cards they are allowed to see before voting.
1- First, reveal one of the three cards of the Shared Vision. Once it is revealed, Psychics with a low 
Clairvoyancy Level 
 vote. They interpret the revealed card as best as they can, without communicating, 
and associate it to one of the available groups. To do so, they take the Clairvoyancy Token that matches 
the number of the group that they want to choose, and place that token in their Sleeve. Then, they give the 
Sleeve to the Psychic with the highest Clairvoyancy Level (or to the eldest Psychic if there is a tie). Once 
a Psychic voted, they cannot change their vote. Votes are kept secret until the end – you are not allowed to 
check other players’ votes before deciding!
2- Then, reveal a second card of the Shared Vision. Once it is revealed, Psychics with an intermediate 
Clairvoyancy Level 
 vote. The voting procedure remains unchanged.
3- Finally, reveal the last card of the vision. Psychics with a high Clairvoyancy Level 
 vote, following the 
same rules.
Once all Psychics have voted, the game is over.
 Intermediate
 Low
 High

End of the Game
The Psychic with the highest Clairvoyancy Level opens all Sleeves and reveals the Clairvoyancy Token of each Psychic (numbered side up). They place each 
Clairvoyancy Token on the group with the matching number.
• If a group has more Clairvoyancy Tokens than any other, then that group is chosen as the suspected Culprit’s group.
• If there is no majority on a given group, then the vote of the Psychic with the highest Clairvoyance Level (or the eldest Psychic if there is a tie) determines 
which group (amongst the tied groups) is the suspected Culprit’s group.
You may now reveal the Culprit Token. If the Psychics chose the correct group (the one with the same number), then you all win: the culprit is exposed! If, however, 
you chose the wrong group, then you all lose, and the Ghost’s soul keeps wandering in limbo…
Rules for 2 or 3 players
For 2- or 3-player games, use the following adjustments. 
Phase 1: Reconstruction of Events 
• The Clairvoyancy Track, the Clairvoyancy Level Tokens and the Clairvoyancy Tokens are not used.
• Each player (except the Ghost) plays two Psychics. 
Phase 2: Revealing the Culprit 
• During Step 2, Shared Vision, the Ghost places the 3 Vision Cards face up, and not face down.
• 2 players: during Step 1, create 2 extra groups of cards, using Psychic Cards that you discarded during the game (Character, Location and Object). 
There will be 4 groups to choose from, and not just 2. The player(s) who play the Psychics must choose one single group, using their Intuition Pawn.
• 3 players: Psychics vote openly and may discuss to identify the correct group (they do not vote in secret). Once they think that they have found the correct 
group, they place one of their Intuition Pawns on it.
The manor still holds a few secrets
Already available!
All-new leads with 
additional cards.
Enhanced replay value.
Brand new card type: 
Story cards. 
Discover why it 
happened!
Expansions