21 minutes of exploration
For 2 to 6 treasure hunters
Aged 6 and up
A game by Antonin Boccara and Yves Hirschfeld
Illustrated by Olivier Danchin
THE STORY SO FAR
Legend has it that the old mansion on the outskirts of the city 
is home to a fabulous treasure! Hoping to find it, you decide to 
spend the night there.
You are about to give up when the ghost of Captain Echo 
appears to help you find his treasure. He isn’t much 
of a talker, but he plays a mean tambourine, 
and he’s going to use it to tell you which 
rooms to search in!
CAPTAIN ECHO'S TREASURE

GOAL OF THE GAME
Players cooperate to find Captain’s treasure before the moon has traveled across the sky and the night is over. 
Each round, one player becomes the Ghost of Captain Echo. The Ghost must use the tambourine to give clues that help the other players 
guess the correct Noise card. If they do, they get to reveal a piece of the Captain’s treasure.
COMPONENTS AND SETUP
A 1 Manor board 
Place it in the middle of the table.
B 1 Round Marker board and 1 Moon token 
Place the Round Marker board Calm side up 
 
directly above the Manor board. Place the Moon 
token on the leftmost moon space.
C 78 Noise cards 
Shuffle the Noise cards and place one face up in each 
of the Manor board’s 5 rooms. Place the rest of the 
Noise deck facedown next to the Manor board.
D 10 Treasure tiles 
Take the 7 Treasure tiles without a 
 symbol, and 
mix them to make a facedown stack next to the Manor 
board. Return the tiles with a 
 symbol to the box.
E 5 Ghost tokens and 1 tambourine 
The oldest player takes these five Ghost tokens and 
the tambourine. They play as the Ghost for the first 
round of the game.
A
B
D
C
E
For a more difficult game, use the Stormy side 
 of the Round 
Marker board. 
When doing so, mix the 3 Treasure tiles with a 
 symbol in with 
the other 7 Treasure tiles.

A ROUND OF PLAY
The Ghost mixes the five Ghost tokens, takes one at random, looks at it, then 
places it facedown to keep it a secret from the other players. The number 
on the Ghost token tells the Ghost which Noise card they must make the other 
players guess.
The Ghost takes the tambourine and asks the other players to close their eyes. 
The Ghost player says «Boooo» to announce the beginning of the clues, then 
uses the tambourine to make noises that help the other players guess the correct 
card. When they are done, they say «Boooo» to announce the end of the clues. 
The other players can now open their eyes.
Once the other players open their eyes, they can discuss the Ghost’s noises and 
work together to guess which Noise card the Ghost was indicating. The Ghost 
cannot speak or give any other clues during this time! When they are ready, 
the players tell the Ghost which Noise card they have agreed is correct. If the 
players cannot agree, the player to the left of the Ghost makes the final choice.
The Ghost reveals the Ghost token taken at the beginning of the round. Does the 
number of the Ghost token match the number of the Noise card that the players 
chose?
If the players guessed the correct card:
You have found a piece of treasure!
Flip the top Treasure tile and place it 
next to the Manor board.
If the players did not guess the correct card:
They didn’t find any treasure this round.
END OF THE ROUND
Regardless of whether or not the players found any treasure, advance the Moon token one space to the right. Take all the Noise 
cards on the Manor board and return them to the box. The Ghost passes the tambourine and the five Ghost tokens to the player to their 
left, who becomes the Ghost for the next round. The new Ghost reveals five new Noise cards to begin a new round.
Giving clues for a Noise card
The Ghost can produce any noise they like 
(scratch, bang, tap, slide, use various rhythms, 
etc.) using the tambourine and its various 
textures.
If keeping eyes closed during the Ghost’s 
clues is too complicated for younger players, 
they can simply turn around while the Ghost is 
making noise.
Some Treasure tiles only show one half of a 
larger treasure. Once you find both halves 
of a treasure, combine them. 

GUESSING ONE OR TWO CARDS
The number of cards next to the Moon token indicates how many Noise cards the players must guess 
during that round. 
: guess one Noise card. 
The Ghost draws one Ghost token and gives tambourine clues, as described earlier.
: guess two Noise cards using the following rule changes (other rules remain the same):
The Ghost takes two Ghost tokens this round. They must clue one after the other. 
Once the players’ eyes are closed, the Ghost begins by saying «Boooo», and makes tambourine noises to give clues for their first Ghost 
token. The Ghost then says «Boooo» again to tell the other players they are going to give clues for their second Ghost token (players’ 
eyes remain closed). Once finished, the Ghost says a last «Boooo» to let the other players know that they can open their eyes.
The players work together to guess the two Noise cards, one after the other. After guessing the first Noise card, the Ghost reveals the 
first Ghost token to see if it matches. Whether or not it does, the players then guess the second Noise card, and the Ghost reveals the 
second Ghost token to see if it matches. For each correct guess, the players flip one Treasure tile faceup.
END OF THE GAME
When the Moon token moves to the last space, the sun begins to rise. The final round begins.
After the final round, the players calculate their score. Score one point for each complete star symbol on your faceup Treasure tiles.
0-3 points:
Not bad...
there’s still plenty to explore in the manor...
4-6 points:
Look at all that loot! 
The manor still has some surprises left for you.
7-8 points:
Wahoo! You’re almost there!
9 points:
Congratulations, nothing gets by you!
0-5 points:
Not bad! 
You’re on the right path!
6-9 points:
Great work for such young sailors.
10-12 points:
Very impressive! 
You are seasoned explorers.
13 points:
Perfect. You are the champion treasure hunters!
Scoring for Calm Nights:
Scoring for Stormy Nights:

EXAMPLE OF A ROUND
The Ghost drew Ghost token number 5, They must 
gives clues for the Noise card in Manor room 5 
(the one with the cat).
The Ghost says «Boooo» before giving their clues.
To help the other players guess the Noise card, the 
Ghost thinks about the sounds a cat makes (purring, 
meowing, etc.) The Ghost can even use things 
drawn on the card, like how the cat is scratching the 
wall. The Ghost decides to recreate that noise by 
scratching the tambourine.
The Ghost then says «Boooo» to finish giving clues.
The other players are deciding between two cards: 
the rake (room 3) and the cat (room 5). After talking 
it over, they decide to guess the cat, because they 
think the Ghost would have made a more repetitive 
sound if it were the rake.
The Ghost reveals the Ghost token: the numbers match, 
which means that the cat was the correct Noise card. 
They flip a Treasure tile faceup. It’s the second half of the 
telescope. They combine the tiles to form another star 
symbol, before proceeding to the END OF THE ROUND.

CREDITs and THANK YOUS
Project direction : Mathieu Aubert (Libellud), Léa Moinet (Space Cow).
Development : Mathieu Aubert (Libellud), Léa Moinet (Space Cow), 
Benoît Forget (Space Cow).
Artistic direction : Maëva Da Silva (Libellud), Léa Moinet (Space Cow), 
Benoît Forget (Space Cow).
Graphic design : Joeva Gaubin, Simon Hay (Libellud), 
Vincent Diez (Space Cow).
Manufacturing : Léa Moinet (Space Cow), Norhane Bey (Asmodee Group).
Sales & Logistics for Libellud : Maximilien Da Cunha.
Marketing for Libellud : Laurent Contios, Dorine Métral-Charvet, 
Ophélie Pimbert-Gris, Paul Neveur.
Thank yous :
To the rest of the Libellud team for their support and feedback: Alexandra Soporan, Alexandre Garcia, Anouk Girard-Dagnas, Lucas Forlacroix, Marion Ludovici, Matthis 
Garcia, Quentin Gourbeault, Stéphane Robert, Thomas Dutertre, Valentin Gaudicheau as well as Hannah Martel, Clément Heuzé and Wilfried Fort for Space Cow.
To the designers, Antonin and Yves, an endless source of humor, energy and genius.
To the illustrator, Olivier, for his incredible talent.
To Oleg and Oleksandr for their kind permission.
To Aline Vidberg and her little playtesters and their enlightened and enlightening opinions.
Mysterium Kids: Captain Echo’s treasure is a kids’ game 
from the 
 series. 
Mysterium is a game by Oleksandr Nevskiy and Oleg Sidorenko.
Do you dare to enter Mysterium manor?
Your psychic skills are needed to assist the ghost of 
Warwick Manor remember the circumstances of his 
disappearance. His visions are the only clues that can help 
you uncover the truth.
In this cooperative game, one player plays as the ghost and 
communicates using only picture cards. The other players must 
interpret these images to solve the mystery.
 A terrific and immersive game  
 
 As d’Or game of the year 2016
For a shorter and more 
accessible experience... 
visit Mysterium Park!
Come for the circus and 
cotton candy. 
Stay for the secrets...
SPACE Cow
makes games for children 
ages 3 and up.