INTRODUCTION
W
elcome to the world of H.P. Lovecraft’s 
Arkham, Massachusetts set during the 1920s 
and 30s. Evil lurks in the heart and history of Arkham's 
brooding streets, preying upon the weak and bold alike 
- those who cannot resist the dark call and seek out 
forbidden knowledge. 
Professor Henry Armitage, Director of the Orne Library 
at Miskatonic University, has asked for your help 
to investigate a broad range of diabolical mysteries. 
Certainly there will be a reasonable explanation for all 
the horrors you are soon to witness. Your sanity may 
depend upon it. There may be a reasonable explanation 
why Arkham's Sanitarium remains crowded. 
Armitage is your long-time friend and mentor, so he 
passes on a bitter warning before you start down this 
path. "Your nights are soon to be filled with shadows." 
Mythos Tales is a game for one to eight 
investigators playable in one to two hours
THE GOAL
In Mythos Tales, players investigate a myriad of strange 
occurrences set within the fictional town of Arkham, 
Massachusetts.
This volume chronicles your adventures performed at 
the behest of Professor Henry Armitage, guardian of the 
dangerous books held in the Restricted Section of the 
Orne Library. 
In these investigations you will work independently of 
Armitage. The introduction to each mystery is all the 
information you need to set you off on your own. 
Players work together, discussing aloud, as they follow 
leads, taking notes on anything and everything in order 
to answer the questions at the end of each mystery. 
To win, players need to successfully answer the most 
pertinent questions without taking too many penalties.
This is a game of surprises, so be prepared for anything.

After reading the introduction of an investigation aloud, players take turns choosing a lead player to continue the 
investigation. The lead player selects a letter and number combination of a location they hope is pertinent to the 
case. Players, as a group and in cooperative manner, then “travel” to that location. There are no board pieces or 
game board. Everything is happening in the minds and voices of the players based on the game text read aloud 
from the Investigation Book and newspapers. If a selected location (number and letter coordinate) is found in 
the Investigation Book for the location players selected to travel, that text is studied for possible clues or leads. 
Players take turns becoming the lead player and make a determination where the group will travel next, and if a 
lead player does not wish to read from the book aloud, another player may elect to read for them.
Players together, however, should choose when they are ready to turn to the questions at the end of every 
investigation. However, they will not know what the questions are beforehand, so they must conduct as thorough 
an investigation as possible within the time allowed. There is a Time-Tracker which may also force players to end 
their investigation and proceed to answering the questions. Players should answer the questions together, without 
rereading any materials in the book or newspapers (each case has a newspaper with the same date as the case). 
There are no penalties, in most cases, for incorrect answers. 
Afterwards, the “Solution” section reveals the answers so players score their own answers and deduct penalties. 
Each investigation presents a minimum score necessary in order to “win” the investigation. Players may then 
compare their traveled path with the path of Armitage. 
Bonus Tokens: You may notice that Mythos Tales contains additional tokens on the token punchboard that do not currently 
have a use in this game. These bonus items will be used in a future expansion that will be made available at retail or online 
at www.8thsummit.net. One current possible use for the magnifying glass tokens in any investigation is to place the tokens 
on the map to note important areas. The opposite side of the Time-Tracker is also not used in this set of investigations.
OVERVIEW
Mythos Tales is a trademark © copyright 2016 to 8th Summit and Forgotten Silver, inc. All rights reserved. Do not use 
trademarks, artwork, characters, and any creative materials without permission.
Mythos Tales is a game by Hal Eccles with writing from Will Kenyon, Robert Kouba & Benjamin Pharr. Project Development: 
Jason Maxwell. Investigations written by the following: A Grain of Evil, The King Cometh, The slumbering Solace & The Star 
of Tokelau are written by Hal Eccles. The Serpent’s Vengeance & The Vanished Girl are written by Will Kenyon. Flesh and 
Blood is written by Christopher Collins and Tim Uren. Pasquale’s Wager is written by Jason Maxwell and Benjamin Pharr.
Box Cover Illustration by Miguel Coimbra; grahic design by julia Semianova and Jesse Seidule. All other illustrative work, 
including case Covers are by Eduardo Torres; Editor: Dan Booth. Additional proofreading and editing by Will Kenyon, 
Jason Maxwell, Benjamin Pharr & David Gilham
Special thanks to the many Playtesters: Eugene Bryant, Clint Miller, Heather Min, Loren Norman, Will Raiman, Adam 
Whitney, Aife Chiang, Andrew Chiang, Aida Kenyon, Catherine Martin. Suzi-Barkman-Harris, Jay Elgin, Elizabeth Gurnak, 
Woody Harris, Dave Leach, Matt Link, Ray Mannila, Brian Min, Chris Stile, Jay Metcalf, Jessica Metcalf, David Gilham & 
many others. Thanks! 
Printed in china. Not suitable for ages 14 or younger. For comments or replacements, please contact 8th summit at 
support@8thsummit.net. Also visit us on facebook. 
www.8thsummit.net
www.8thsummitgames.com
Mythos Tales is distributed in the UK 
In partnership with 
Spiral Galaxy Games Ltd. 
The Laurels, Stars Lane,Cold Hatton, TF6 6PZ
www.spiralgalaxygames.co.uk

THIS GAME MANUAL
This game manual contains the basic information 
that players need on their journeys into Arkham. This 
manual contains a quick reference on Page 7-8 of the 
local allies players may visit during any investigation. 
Allies coordinates can more easily be found in this 
manual.
INVESTIGATION 
BOOK
The investigation book is the 
heart of the game, containing 
eight separate investigations. 
Due to the complexity of 
some cases, it is recommended 
that players attempt the 
investigations in order.
ARKHAM DIRECTORY
The directory contains the 
coordinates for the locations of 
homes and businesses and public 
places that players may travel. If 
you need to find out how to look 
up the location for a particular 
person or place, this is where to 
look.
8 NEWSPAPERS
Each investigation has a newspaper copy of the 
Arkham Advertiser that corresponds by date. You 
may look at any previously dated newspapers as 
well during any investigation. While much of the 
information is for flavor, some 
information is presented to further 
your investigations. However, 
sometimes the importance of 
cryptic information will not 
become apparent until your 
investigation is well underway.
19 REQUIREMENT CARDS
Requirement cards represent pieces of 
information and equipment that are 
obtained from particular locations 
to be used at other locations. 
These are awarded from the text 
in the Investigation Book.
TIME-TRACKER AND 
MARKERS (TOKENS)
The Time-Tracker (pictured on page 5) is used to track 
the progression of time, as well as indicate when 
players must cease their investigation if they 
have not done so already. Each investigation 
has a time limit and when the grey Hourglass 
Progress marker (token) reaches the red Time 
Limit marker - the ‘X’ marker shown here - 
your investigation must stop and players then 
proceed directly to the questions. Each case will inform 
players where to place the ‘X’ marker. As soon as 
players advance to their first location just after reading 
the Introduction, the Progress Token is then placed on 
Day 1, Morning.
MAP OF 
ARKHAM
The map of Arkham, 
Massachusetts 
reveals a map of the 
town and districts of 
Arkham. It should be 
noted that only a few 
locations are valid for 
each investigation. 
They will not all have 
encounters to read. 
Players should use the 
investigation book, 
directory and the map 
together.
COMPONENT OVERVIEW

SETUP
To prepare to play a Mythos Tales investigation, follow 
the instructions in this section. Although players may 
select any investigation they wish to play in any order, 
it is recommended they play investigations in order, 
starting with A Grain of Evil.
1.	 Choose an investigation to play and open the book 
to the page following the cover illustration.
2.	 Unfold the map of Arkham, Massachusetts and 
place it in the center of the play area for all players 
to reference. 
3.	 Place the Requirement cards in a stack near the map. 
Each investigation will let you know if Requirement 
cards are used during that investigation. 
4.	 Place the Time-Tracker next to the Requirement 
cards. Place the Time Limit X marker on the proper 
space as indicated by the chosen investigation. Place 
the Progress marker near the Time-Tracker. It will 
move to Day 1, Morning once players travel to first 
location.
5.	 Find the newspaper dated the same as the chosen 
Investigation and place it near the map. Also 
previously 
dated 
newspapers 
from 
previous 
investigations should be placed near the map - it’s 
possible that those newspapers may contain clues to 
your current investigation.
6.	 Select a player to be the first player. If a decision 
cannot be made, determine the first player randomly. 
Give this player the Investigation Book, the directory, 
and the list of allies (back of this Game Manual). 
You are ready to begin!
GAMEPLAY
The following section describes how the game is 
played. Note that if you are playing the game solo, 
there are no changes to the gameplay except you are 
always considered the lead player.
NOTE: Some Investigations will introduce new 
rules. Those rules are not covered in this rulebook, 
such as Delay, Pursuit and Dreaming. They will be 
described in detail in the Investigation Book.
The game is played in two separate phases:
•	
Investigation Phase
•	
Solution Phase
The game concludes after the players complete the 
Solution Phase.
Investigation Phase
In the Investigation Phase, players may follow leads 
that they feel will reveal the most pertinent information. 
Leads are mentioned in the text or you may infer them 
by deduction. Beginning with the first player, each 
player in turn follows the steps below until it is time to 
move to the Solution Phase:
1.	 Travel Step
2.	 Encounter Step
If the Encounter Step ends and players have not 
moved to the Solution Phase, the next player in turn 
begins their Travel Step and the Investigation Phase 
continues.
Important: Players may voluntarily end their 
investigation at any time before the Progress 
marker advances to the ‘X’ space on the Time-
Tracker. Ending the investigation earlier will help 
avoid penalties for visiting too many locations. 
Travel Step
In this step, all players first discuss what location 
they think should be visited next. However, it should 
be noted that a majority vote is not necessary. The 
active player can go to any location he or she desires. 

In order to find a location coordinate, which usually 
consists of a single letter followed by a number, the 
player can use the map of Arkham, the directory, or 
the ally list on the back of this game manual. There are 
some situations where there is no reference from a lead 
to look up in the directory. Players may use the map 
alone in some instances to find a location to explore.
The directory is used to find the "address" of locations 
or persons of interest. An "address" is represented by a 
letter and a number. 
The ally list, found on the back of this game manual, 
is a selection of people known for their expertise in a 
certain area. While they almost always have something 
to say (an entry in every investigation), only rely on the 
ones whose background can shed light on the current 
investigation. Even a visit to Armitage might only 
reveal clues you already have and some gruff remarks 
about how you are wasting your time. 
After selecting which location players will travel, 
advance the Time-Tracker by moving the Progress 
marker one space down if it is Morning or Afternoon, 
or across to the Morning of the next Day if the marker 
is on Evening. Note: if this is the players first turn of the 
game, the grey Progress marker is not yet on the Time-
Tracker. In this case instead place the Progress marker 
on Morning of Day 1. 
Each time players move to a location to read a new 
encounter for a new turn, players must advance the 
Progress marker on the Time-Tracker even if they 
have previously visited that location. Players advance 
the Time-Tracker even if they discover that there is 
no corresponding printed coordinate in the book for 
the selected Location (empty location). It takes time 
to travel to a location, even if there is nothing of 
importance there.
Advancing the Time-Tracker in this step represents 
time spent for movement, not time spent at the location, 
so even if you advance to the ‘X’ space on the Time-
Tracker, you still read the encounter at that location. 
This will be the players' last read encounter. They may 
not voluntarily advance past the ‘X’ to move again. 
However, their current encounter may instruct players 
to advance the Time-Tracker (due to a circumstance 
out of their control, such as getting knocked out and 
waking up at a later time). This may result in a penalty 
as described in scoring. 
Encounter Step
After the active player announces the location that the 
group will travel and advances the Time-Tracker, they 
then read aloud the encounter based on the location 
coordinate. The letter represents a district in Arkham. 
The number indicates a specific lot or building or 
room within a building. It is worthwhile to note that a 
reference to a particular location is the same no matter 
which investigation you are playing. Note that the 
players' traveled path should be documented during 
the course of play. It is important to keep detailed 
notes. Players will be answering questions at the end 
of their investigation.
Encounter Step continued
After 
advancing 
the Time-Tracker, 
the 
active 
player turns to the corresponding coordinates in the 
Investigation Book and reads the entry aloud. If there 
is not an entry for the chosen location, there are no 
Tracking Time. When players travel to a location, they advance 
the Progress marker (Hourglass Token) one space. Exception: The 
first time players travel to a location in any investigation they in-
stead will place the Hourglass marker on Day 1, Morning. The 
marker either moves down one space to the row underneath or to 
the next ‘Day’ column if moving from Evening of the previous 
Day column. In this way, players progress through the Morning 
- Afternoon - Evening cycle of a single day before moving to the 
next day.
Progress Marker - Place this marker on the Day 1, 
Morning space upon reading of the Introduction and 
then traveling to your first location.
Example: The below investigation, as determined by 
this Time-Tracker, will conclude after reading the en-
counter at the location traveled to on Day 5, Evening.

relevant clues at that location. In this case, the same 
player may select another location. The Progress marker 
(Hourglass) is immediately advanced another space on 
the Time-Tracker. 
No Location Coordinate in Book: It is important 
to note that if players travel to a location without an 
encounter, they do not count that location in the final 
count of locations when scoring penalties at the end of 
the investigation. This is important to remember. 
It is also important to note that when reading a 
location’s entry, the active player should focus on the 
selected entry and not peek at other entries on the 
same page.
In addition, some entries might have the active player 
do something unexpected. Follow all directions in 
the text. If an entry instructs a player to stop reading, 
the player does not continue reading. An entry might 
also have the player read a different entry depending 
on the situation, such as a Supplemental Encounter, 
which they do so immediately. Another encounter 
may instruct players to advance the Time-Tracker 
an additional space for lost time. If this advances the 
Progress marker to the last space with an ‘X’ then the 
investigation ends after reading the current encounter, 
since players can no longer travel to a new location.
An entry might also ask if a Requirement card is in 
the group’s possession. If any player has the correct 
Requirement card (Requirement Cards are considered 
to be possessed by all players), this condition is 
considered fulfilled and the instructions are followed. 
SOLUTION PHASE
As a group, players proceed through the following steps 
in order:
1.	 Question and Answer Step
2.	 Scoring Step
Question and Answer Step
The Questions section contains a list of questions that 
can be answered based on information obtained during 
the investigation. For each question, players should 
decide on the best answer based on notes they have 
taken and information they recall. Encounters and 
Newspapers may not be reread at this time.
Normally, questions are answered as a group based on 
consensus. Players may, however, agree before the start 
of the investigation to answer questions independently 
and privately. They may do this in order to compare 
scores at the end of the game. 
Scoring Step
In the Scoring Step players determine their score 
by comparing their answers to the ones found in the 
Answers section. They also assess sanity penalties 
to their score as well as penalties for not being as 
efficient as Armitage, as revealed in the “Path of 
Armitage.” Armitage’s path will not always allow him 
to answer all questions, and in some cases Armitage’s 
Path is only representative of an efficient path players 
could have taken in order to answer most questions. 
Players compare the answers they gave to the questions 
to those listed in the Answers section. Correct answers 
score the number of points shown. Be sure to record the 
points for each correct answer.
Sanity: Players then adjust their score based on the 
Record-Keeping
I
t is strongly recommended that each 
player has materials to take notes. The 
only mandatory information that must be 
documented are the locations that have 
been visited. Other helpful items include:
•	 The turn a lead is followed up on
•	 Evidence pertaining to the investigation
•	 References to follow-up on (usually 
gained from the Arkham Directory)
•	 General notes of cryptic elements or 
other information.

final location count, although each time you revisit a 
location you must advance the Time-Tracker.
If you are satisfied with your score and do not want to 
play the investigation again, read the Solution section, 
which outlines the Path of Armitage. 
Keep in mind that Armitage himself may not answer 
every question. He tries to keep things as efficient as 
possible and find answers to the primary questions of 
the investigation. You can therefore out-score Armitage 
but it is difficult! 
ALLIES
Professor Henry Armitage tells you sternly. “Now be-
fore you are tasked with solving your first case, I must 
give you a list of people and places that will prove in-
valuable, I am sure. Visiting these allies is a great way 
to find new leads and steer your investigation back on 
track if you find yourself in a bind. However, choose 
carefully. You can’t visit many of them in any investiga-
tion, unless it is your goal to waste precious time.”
-SPECIAL LOCATION: ARMITAGE'S OFFCE-
(C23A): Armitage’s Office is inside the Library (C23). 
He is rarely, if ever, inside his office once an investi-
gation has begun. Nonetheless, you may visit his of-
fice from the Library without advancing the Time- 
Tracker (since the office is inside the Library). This 
is the only location that has such benefit. Armitage’s 
office will still count as a unique location visit in your 
final location count.
Dr. Vincent Sutton is a trauma surgeon and Chief Pa-
thologist at St. Mary’s Teaching Hospital (C11). If any 
of your investigations involve injuries or victims, he is 
the man to visit.
Miskatonic’s Professor Leonore Robinson (C17) is a 
great source of information on all matters historical. 
She is an expert on the oral history of the Miskatonic 
Valley and is also well-versed in folklore.
Emilia Sergant is a librarian at the Orne Library 
(C23). She can assist you with any research. She also 
has access to the Restricted Section of the library, home 
to writings too dangerous to be accessed by the public.
Sanity Penalties section. This section might assess 
a penalty to your score if you visited a particularly 
dangerous or haunting place. Many things you see 
cannot be unseen so be careful where you go!
Excess Time: In the unlikely event an encounter forced 
players to advance the Progress marker beyond the ‘X' 
marker on the Time-Tracker, players deduct 1 point for 
each space advanced beyond the ‘X’ marker.
Excess Locations: The Locations Visited section tells 
players how many locations Armitage visited during 
his investigation. Players do not need to visit the same 
locations as Armitage - only the number of locations 
he traveled is important. For each location - in number 
- visited beyond the number that Armitage visited, the 
players are assigned a penalty of 1 point for each. For 
example, if he visited 8 total locations and you visited 
12 total locations (revisits to the same locations are not 
counted, nor are locations that did not contain a printed 
coordinate letter/number), you would deduct 4 points 
from your score. For example if players traveled to the 
location coordinate L67 but there is no L67 location 
number/letter, thus no encounter, printed in the book, 
L67 is not counted in your final location count when 
comparing your final location count to that of Armitage. 
Alternatively, if there is an L67 location coordinate 
printed in the book; but if there is a coordinate in the 
book and for some reason the encounter text states that 
you cannot read the encounter, this does count as a 
location travelled in your final location count.
Revisiting Locations : Revisiting the same location 
more than once still only counts as one location in your 

William Coffin is a shady fellow, but some of your in-
vestigations might take you to some unsavory places 
he will know something about. He is at the Fleetwood 
Diner (D2) so often you would think he might live 
there. Coffin has his fingers in a lot of pies, so to speak. 
He will gladly give you information for the right price.
Nicolas Staltonstall is one of the most overworked 
civil servants in public service. He is the keeper of 
various legal documents, such as birth, marriage, and 
death certificates, as well as deeds to local properties. 
He’s at the Arkham Town Hall (D21).
The Arkham Police Station (D32) is home to many 
fine detectives, head up by Inspector Morris Garrison. 
Herbert Corbett (D45) is our local criminologist. As 
long as he has the evidence to examine, his forensic 
expertise is unmatched. 
Friendly and verbose, Arlo Hoppin is a dispatcher and 
cabbie for the Arkham Yellow Cab Company (D34). 
You’d be surprised who he meets during the course of 
his normal workaday job. He also is quite the talented 
musician, as I’m sure he’ll tell you.
Dorothy Davis with the Arkham Historical Society 
(L1) has a knowledge of family history that Profes-
sor Robinson lacks, and has extensive genealogical 
records that can reveal surprising family connections.
For all things on the occult when you can't find good 
information at the library, Pasquale Fenton (L4) is 
Arkham’s resident occultist and spiritualist. Pasquale 
meddles in forces he would be better off to avoid. His 
knowledge of the so-called Great Old Ones is exten-
sive, and on occasion you may be forced to team up 
with him, much to the chagrin of Armitage.
Sebastian Lyman is a member of the Order of the Sil-
ver Twilight (L18), but he is also a mole. He is a mem-
ber of this cult in name only, and works secretly for 
Armitage providing information on the Order and its 
mysterious leader, Carl Sandford.
The Arkham Advertiser (N28) has its finger on the 
pulse of this town, and Donnie Clarke is its star re-
porter. He has a zeal for grabbing people’s 
attention, and seeks the truth, insofar as it 
can be found.
If you find yourself in need of information 
about the privileged class, or the entertain-
ment circle, Ambrose Checkley (U18) is 
the person to see. He’s a notorious gossip 
hound and high-society mogul, and is ea-
ger to share any tawdry stories he comes 
across.
Armitage takes a puff of his pipe.“There are 
also two notable locations in town where 
you can gather information. Arkham San-
atorium (D1) may provide you with some 
unique perspectives on your cases. With 
the right kind of ears, you may find insight 
by listening to the ranting of the patients 
there.” Armitage leans forward, conspirato-
rially. “I’m not saying that I’d ever frequent 
such an establishment, and in these times, 
I’d even deny it existed, but the Speak-
easy (N4) can be a valuable location to 
visit. As a common, if secret, gathering 
place for all types, someone is bound 
to have heard something. Plus, the liba-
tions there cause folks to be more forthcom-
ing than normal.”
Armitage empties his pipe, and rises from his arm-
chair. “Of course, you can always see me if you are 
stymied by an investigation. I can be found at my home 
(U8) or my office (C23A). I wish you the best of luck in 
your investigations, and will summon you as soon as I 
need your assistance.” 
 
visit www.8thsummit.net
© copyright 2016 to 8th Summit 
and Forgotten Silver, inc. 
All rights reserved.