Nanuk is a card game for 5 to 8. The players are Inuit hunters in the Arctic, braving the wilderness to
find food for the tribe. The game is played in rounds, each of which has four phases: Boasting to decide
who leads the hunt, Choosing Sides in which players decide whether to go on the hunt or stay home,
Planning the Hunt, and Finishing the Hunt.
The more days a hunt lasts, the better the chance that the hunters will find the game they need . . . but
the greater the danger of encountering Nanuk, the polar bear, ending their hunt in disaster.
COMPONENTS
100 cards
1 Day Token
Gameboard
10 Number Tokens
Rulesheet
10 Hunt/Doom Tokens*
3 Wind Tokens*
* You won’t need all of these at once. We’ve provided extra tokens in
case any are damaged or lost during play.
SETUP
For the first round, the dealer (and first player)
is whoever has been furthest north. Shuffle the
deck. Deal each player a hand of three face-down
cards. Give each player a Hunt/Doom token.
THE CARDS
Most cards show
a Deer, Seal, Fish, or
Bird. There are 24 of
each animal card.
They are the object of
the 
players’ 
hunts.
Each type of
animal has the
same value . . .
they are differ-
ent, but no one is
better than any
other.
Three of each
type of animal are “double.” A double counts as
two animals during a hunt, and is scored as two
cards at the end of
the game.
Twelve of
the animal
cards have
bears in the
corners. These
are Nanuk cards.
If drawn during
the hunt, Nanuk brings doom unless you are 
protected by an Inuksuk. However, these
cards give bonuses when scor-
ing (see Finishing the Hunt, p. 4).
The Inuksuk cards (right) rep-
resent guideposts in the wilder-
ness. They protect against Nanuk
on the hunt. There are only four.

THE WIND TOKEN
At the beginning of each
round, the first player flips
the Wind token to determine
the direction of play around
the table. Place the Wind token
in the circle at the top of the
board (see diagram, p. 3).
DAYS AND NUMBERS
The Day token shows
the sun, and is used
on the gameboard
to show the number
of days in the current
bid (see diagram, p. 3).
The Number tokens are placed
on the board to show the number of
animals in the current bid. The
type of animal is shown by the
board space on which the tokens
are placed (see diagram, p. 3).
THE HUNT/DOOM
TOKENS
Each player has one of these tokens. 
One side is brown, with crossed
spearheads. This side is used to
indicate that the player is going
on the hunt.
The other side is
red, with the skull
of a Nanuk. This
side is used to indicate that the
player is staying home, because
he believes this hunt is DOOMED!
HUNTS
(ROUNDS OF PLAY)
Each round represents a new hunt. At the 
beginning of each round, the Day Track is set to 1.
The first player flips the Wind token. This will 
determine the direction of bidding around the
table, and, in later phases, the direction of play of
hunting cards and the choice of reward cards.
BOASTING
The boasting begins with the first player and con-
tinues around the table in the direction of the wind.
Each player must either raise the boast, or declare
that the hunt is doomed. Players may not pass. 
Each boast is a bid. When you boast, you are
saying how much the group will bring back if you
are the leader, and how long you’ll be able to
brave the wilderness.
The minimum first bid is “1 animal in 1 day,”
which is a very easy hunt. Boasts may be made in
Birds, Fish, Seals, or Deer, and each bid can name
only one type of animal. 
When you make a boast, move the tokens on
the board to show your bid. You may raise the
previous boast by:
• Raising the days: A boast of 1 Fish in 4 days is
better than a boast of 1 Fish in 3 days, since 
longer hunts can find more game . . . and are
more dangerous. The maximum number of days
that can be bid is 12. Once the marker reaches
12, the days can’t be raised further.
• Raising the number of animals: A boast of 2
Seals in 4 days is better than a boast of 1 Seal in
4 days. If you raise the number of animals, you
The game starts with all the cards in the draw
deck. As play continues, some cards will be won
by players. Others will be discarded.
If there are discards, they are placed face up
at the bottom of the draw deck. This makes 
it difficult to see just how many cards are left 
to draw. When a face-up card appears, the 
game is over or almost over; see Winter is Near,
p. 4.
Each player will own two sets of cards as the
game progresses:
• Hand. You will start each hunt with three
cards in your hand. The other players can’t
see your hand.
• Score. These are the cards you win by success-
ful hunting or dooming. They are all kept 
face up, and organized into sets and pairs 
(see Winning the Game, p. 5). 
Card Management

may also change the type. A boast of 2 Birds in
4 days is better than a boast of 1 Seal in 4 days.
You may not change the type of animal unless
you raise the number you are bidding.
• Raising both days and animals!
Players can raise the previous boast by any
amount. For instance, a player may respond to
“2 Deer in 4 days” by saying “6 Fish in 7 days.”
A successful boast will take into account your
own cards, as well as your best estimate of the
other players’ cards. The play of the cards is 
described in Planning the Hunt, p. 4.
If a player does not want to raise the last bid,
he has an alternative . . . he can say that the last
boast is impossible and the hunt is DOOMED!
Once someone says the hunt is doomed, the
bidding is over and the next phase starts.
CHOOSING SIDES
When a player says that the hunt is doomed,
that player becomes the Doom Leader, and may
not join the hunt. He puts his token on the table,
Doom side up.
The previous player – that is, the last one to
make a boast – becomes the Hunt Leader. His
boast, whatever it was, becomes the object of the
hunt. Place the Wind token between these two
players. The Hunt Leader automatically goes on
the hunt, so he places his token on the table in
front of him, Hunt side up.
Each other player secretly decides whether or
not to join the hunt. To show your choice, place
the Hunt/Doom token with its chosen side up
under your hand, and push it toward the center of
the table.
After all the players have their hands out, show-
ing that their decisions are made, the tokens are
revealed all at once. If a player makes a mistake
and puts his token out wrong side up, he is bound
to what his token shows!
Players should leave their tokens out, showing
whether they are Hunters or Doomers, until the
beginning of the next round. 
Placing the Ante
Each player who said the hunt was Doomed now
chooses a card from his hand and places it face-
down in front of him, under his Doom token. This
is his “ante.” After the hunt is over, whether it 
succeeds or fails, all the ante cards are turned 
face-up and added to the pot which the winners
will share (see Rewards of Hunting, p. 4).
The Doom Leader should say “DOOMED!”
as forcefully as he can! After he dooms the
hunt, he may try to persuade the other players
to stay out of the hunt. If he can talk enough
of them out of participating, the hunt will fail.
Likewise, the Hunt Leader can try to talk
the other players into coming with him to
hunt. The more players who hunt, the more
likely it is that the hunt will succeed.
The other players may argue for either side.
Note that at this stage only the Hunt Leader
and Doom Leader are committed. Other 
players may even argue for one side and then
decide to choose the other . . .
However, no player can show his cards. 
6 Fish in 7 Days

PLANNING THE HUNT
Each Hunter, one at a time, must contribute at
least one card from his hand to the hunt. 
The first card(s) are played by the next Hunter, 
in the direction of the wind, from the Hunt Leader.
Then each Hunter, in turn, contributes his card(s).
The Hunt Leader makes his contribution last.
All the cards are played face-down to the 
center of the table. Everyone may see how many
cards are contributed by each player, but not
what they are!
After the Hunt Leader makes his own contribu-
tion, he takes all the cards and mixes them up, so
no one can see who played which card. Then he
turns them face up to see how the hunt will begin:
• Cards matching the hunt’s target animal will
count toward the number needed for this hunt.
It doesn’t matter whether these cards have
Nanuks on them.
• Each Inuksuk card will protect the hunt by 
canceling one Nanuk drawn from the deck in
the next phase.
• Animals that don’t match the target animal
don’t help or hurt the hunt.
Example: The boast is “4 seals in 5 days.” 
The Hunters’ cards include two seals, one seal with
a Nanuk, one Inuksuk, and one fish.
The three seals count toward the goal of 4. The
Nanuk on one of the seals is ignored. Nanuks don’t
affect the hunt unless they are drawn from the deck
– see below.
The Inuksuk will cancel one drawn Nanuk.
The fish won’t help the hunt succeed in any 
way. The player might be trying to get it into play to
help himself fill a set, or he might have wanted to get
in on this hunt and had no better card to contribute.
The Hunters only need one more seal. They have
five days to find it. Will they succeed, or is the hunt
doomed?
FINISHING THE HUNT
The Dealer draws cards from the deck, one at a
time, to complete the hunt. Each card represents
a day of the hunt. A one-day hunt gives one card,
a two-day hunt gives two, and so on. Continue
until a card has been drawn for every day, or until
Nanuk appears . . . 
Look at the corners of each card turned up –
that’s where the Nanuk symbol is. If a Nanuk card
appears, and no Inuksuk is showing, stop drawing
cards. The hunt has failed! But remember, any
Inuksuk card showing – either in the cards con-
tributed by the Hunters, or in the cards drawn for
earlier days – cancels one Nanuk. Each Inuksuk
can cancel only one Nanuk, so if there are ever
more Nanuks drawn than Inuksuks, the hunt im-
mediately fails.
After a card has been drawn for each day of the
hunt, if the target number of animals has been
met, the hunt succeeds. If there are not enough
animals, the hunt fails.
If the target number of animals is reached, 
but there are still days to go, the Dealer must
continue drawing cards until one has been turned
over for each day of the winning boast.
Winter is Near . . .
If you reach the face-up cards at the bottom of
the deck while you are drawing days, this will be
the last hand. Stop drawing cards (the face-up
card does not count). All the players return their
hands to the Dealer, who shuffles them in with
the discards to form a new draw deck. The re-
maining days are drawn to finish the hunt. Once
the current hunt has been resolved, the game is
over, and players will score their cards – see 
Winning the Game, p. 5.
In the unlikely event that there are not enough
reshuffled cards to complete the hunt, the game
ends. There is no score for the uncompleted hunt.
Rewards of Hunting
If a hunt is successful, the Hunters will share
all the cards from the hunt . . . those they con-
tributed to start with, all cards turned up from the
deck, and the “ante” cards of the Doomers.
Each Hunter will get the same number of cards.
Starting with the Hunt Leader, and going in the
direction of the wind, each Hunter chooses a sin-
gle card. If there are enough cards left for each
Hunter to take another, go around again, and so
on. The leftovers are discarded (see below).
If each player keeps his reward cards in front
of him until all have been drawn or discarded, it
will make it easier to keep track of who still gets
to draw cards.
Example: If there are six Hunters and 13 cards,
each hunter will get two, with one left over. 
The leader will choose one card, then the next
player will choose one, and so on, twice around the
table. After each player has chosen a second card
there will be one left over. Discard it.

Rewards of Doomsaying
If a hunt fails, the Doomers will share all the
cards from the hunt, starting with the Doom
Leader, in the same way described above for
Hunters.
Discards
Any cards left over are discarded. They are
placed face-up under the draw deck.
New Cards
After the hunt is resolved, whether it was a 
success or a failure, each player is dealt face-
down cards to bring his hand up to three.
If a face-up card appears while the new cards
are being dealt, or is on top of the deck after all
are dealt, the game ends immediately, and players
will discard any cards already dealt and count
their scores – see Winning the Game, below.
The Next Round
A new round begins after cards are dealt to
the Hunters. The first player is the successful
leader in the previous round . . . the Hunt
Leader if the hunt succeeded, the Doom Leader
if it failed. He will flip the wind token and make
the first boast.
WINNING THE GAME
After each hunt, players collect their scoring
cards into sets and pairs. At the end of the game
they calculate their scores. Each card may be
used only once. Double-animal cards break this
rule, and can be used as two separate cards. 
• A set of one of each animal (that is, a set of four
different animal cards) is worth three points. 
• Any pair of matching Deer, Seal, Fish, Bird, or
Inuksuk cards is worth one point.
• Inuksuks are wild cards, and may be used to fill
any pair or set.
• The player with the most Nanuk cards scores
two bonus points. If there is a tie for most
Nanuks, each tied player gets one point.
The high scorer is the winner.
LONGER GAMES
Players may decide in advance to play several
seasons, and determine the mightiest hunter by
totaling the scores from all seasons. The winner
of one season becomes the first player in the next
game, and so on. In case of ties, the first player
for the next game is chosen randomly from
among the tied players.
OPTIONAL RULE
The decisions to Hunt and Doom are not simul-
taneous. Instead, once someone declares the hunt is
doomed, the next player in the direction of the wind
immediately declares which side he will join, and
turns his token to the appropriate side. Then the
next player decides, and so on. Players may not
change their decisions! Once each player has 
chosen to Hunt or to Doom, the Doomers place
their antes and the Planning the Hunt phase begins.
Scoring Example
For example, the score pile below is worth
10 points. 
• One point from a pair made with a Deer
and an Inuksuk (A). 
• Six points from two sets (B & C). 
• Two points from the double Deer cards that
are each a pair (D). 
• One point from a double Fish that is one
pair (E). 
• There is one card left over (F) that doesn’t
score.
• The two cards with Nanuks (B) may earn
bonus points, depending on how many
Nanuks the other players have. See Winning
the Game, at left.
=3
=1
Set
Pair

Game Design by Mark Goadrich and Brett Myers • Illustrated by Alex Fernandez
Development by Steve Jackson, Philip Reed, Will Schoonover, and Randy Scheunemann
Edited by Steve Jackson and Elisabeth Zakes
Graphic Design: Alex Fernandez • Managing Editor: Philip Reed • Art Director: Will Schoonover
Production Artist: Alex Fernandez • Prepress Checker: Will Schoonover • Print Buyer: Philip Reed
Marketing Director: Paul Chapman • Director of Sales: Ross Jepson
Playtesters: Fox Barrett, Beau Beckett, Jimmie Bragdon, Jason Cates, Paul Chapman, Dominic Crappuchettes, 
Greg Daigle, Richard Dodson, Ross Drews, Russell Gaskamp, Laura Goadrich, Andrew Hackard, Richard Kerr, 
James Kyle, Matt Lavine, Satish Pillalamarri, Jeph Stahl, Monica Stephens, Ben Williams, Loren Wiseman, 
Duncan Wright, Chris Young, the Shreveport Board Gamers, and everyone that played the game at Protospiel
Nanuk and the all-seeing pyramid are trademarks or registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. 
Nanuk is copyright © 2009 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. All rights reserved. Version 1.0 (November 2009).
nanuk.sjgames.com