1. Parts List .................................................................................. 2
2. Introduction ............................................................................. 2
3. Playing Pieces ..........................................................................2
4. The Game Board ..................................................................... 2
5. Scenarios .................................................................................. 3
6. Setting up the Game................................................................ 3
7. Order of Play ........................................................................... 3
8. Corps ........................................................................................ 3
9. Commands ............................................................................... 4
10. Movement .............................................................................. 4
11. Attacks .................................................................................... 5
12. Retreats ..................................................................................8
13. Morale ....................................................................................9
14. Night ....................................................................................... 9
15. Elite Units .............................................................................. 9
16. Winning the Game ................................................................9
17. Game Balance (optional) ......................................................9
18. The Santon (optional) ......................................................... 10
19. Team Play (optional) ........................................................... 10
Design Notes ............................................................................end
Table of Contents
Rules of Play

2 Napoleon’s Triumph
1. Parts List
The game includes:
• 140 wooden playing pieces.
• 18 metal leader pieces.
• Two copies of a sheet of stickers.
• 15 wooden markers.
• Two game boards.
• Two copies of this rules booklet.
Note: Extra pieces and stickers are provided to 
replace any lost or damaged components.
2. Introduction
Napoleon’s Triumph is a game based on the 
battle of Austerlitz. It is a game for two players: 
one player controls the French army and the 
other the Allied army. In the game, the players 
take turns moving their pieces and attacking 
enemy pieces. A player wins by either inﬂ ict-
ing losses on the enemy army or by controlling 
territory.
3. Playing Pieces
The pieces in the game represent the oppos-
ing French and Allied armies. Blue pieces are 
French, red are Allied.
There are two classes of pieces: commanders 
and units. Commanders represent individual 
leaders and their staffs. Units represent bodies 
of infantry, cavalry, and artillery.
Commanders are identiﬁ ed by name. A sam-
ple commander is shown below:
Before starting play for the ﬁ rst time, stick-
ers must be applied to the commanders.
Three sample units are shown below:
One side of each unit is marked with sym-
bols. That side is called the face.
 The type of symbol indicates the type of 
unit. There are four types of symbols:
guard infantry
infantry
cavalry
artillery
The number of symbols on a unit indicates 
its strength. The sample units above are a three-
strength infantry unit, a two-strength cavalry 
unit, and a one-strength artillery unit.
Usually, a player keeps his units turned so 
that his opponent cannot see their faces. This 
normal state is called face-down. Note: in gen-
eral, this is not literally face down – players who 
sit on opposite sides of the board will usually 
prefer to keep their units’ faces towards them-
selves, which is convenient and sufﬁ ces to hide 
them from their opponent.
Sometimes a player must show the face of 
one of his units to his opponent. In those situa-
tions the face is turned upwards. This is called 
face-up.
A commander does not have a face-down 
state. The name of a commander is always vis-
ible to both sides.
When a unit has to be reduced in strength 
as a result of an attack or retreat, it is removed 
and another unit of the same type – but a lower 
strength – is put in its place. Extra units are pro-
vided with the game for this purpose.
At full strength, an infantry unit represents 
about 2000 men, a cavalry unit represents about 
1400 troopers, and an artillery unit represents 
about 30 massed guns and their crews.
Commanders in the game represent the his-
torical commanders of corps or their functional 
equivalents.
4. The Game Board
The game board consists of two sections, 
which are joined together. Most of the game 
board depicts a map of the battleﬁ eld. Some 
space on the edges is devoted to play aids.
The play aids are explained in the rules sec-
tions appropriate to them. This section explains 
how to read the map.
The map is divided into polygons. These 
polygons are called locales. The sides of the 
polygons are called approaches, and the middle 
is called the reserve area.
An example of a locale with three approaches 
is shown below:
The symbols that deﬁ ne locales are as fol-
lows:
is an approach. Approaches can 
be either narrow (as wide as 
one piece) or wide (as wide as 
two pieces). Penalty symbols can 
be on either side of an approach 
to show the effects of terrain on 
movement and attacks across it. 
Penalties are directional: the 
symbols inside a locale show the 
penalties for moving and attack-
ing into (not out of) the locale.
is an infantry penalty.
is a cavalry penalty.
is an artillery penalty.
is obstructed.
is impassable.
is the locale capacity.
is a hill (the elevation number is 
cosmetic: it has no effect on play).
The example locale above is a hill, has a 
capacity limit of four and has three approaches. 
The top approach has penalties for infantry and 
artillery attacks into the locale, as well as an 
obstructed penalty. The right approach has a 
penalty for cavalry attacks into the locale. The 
left approach is impassable.
In some locales, a few special symbols are 
present. These are as follows:
set-up locale.
game objective locale.
reinforcement entry locale.
A piece in play must be in a position within 
a locale. A piece can be in position next to 
an approach (which is called blocking that 
approach) or it can be in position in the reserve 
area (which is called being in reserve). The 
example below shows how this is physically 
represented:
(Pieces are face-up for illustration only.)
In this example, the infantry and cavalry 
piece are blocking the top approach together, 
while the artillery piece in the middle is in 
reserve by itself. Pieces blocking approaches 
should be oriented the same way as the 
approach. Pieces in reserve may be oriented 
sections 1-4 • parts list, introduction, playing pieces, game board

any way that is convenient – their orientation 
has no effect on play.
Important: pieces are deﬁned as being 
in the same position when they are in the same 
locale and in the same position in that locale. A 
piece blocking an approach in a locale is not in 
the same position as a piece blocking a differ-
ent approach in that locale, nor is it in the same 
position as a piece in reserve in that locale.
A player may not put more of his units (not 
counting commanders) into a locale than the 
locale’s capacity limit. Note: there is a special 
case related to this limit in the corps rules (see 
section 8).
 The capacity limit is for the entire locale. 
There are no sub-limits for the reserve area or 
individual approaches.
Locales are adjacent if they are on opposite 
sides of the same approach. Locales that share 
only a corner are not adjacent.
The red lines on the map are main roads. 
The brown lines are local roads. Roads affect 
movement: pieces can be moved farther in a 
turn if they are moving along a road.
Other markings on the map show elevation, 
woods, marshes, rivers, streams and towns. 
These are cosmetic and do not affect play. (Their 
effects are simulated by approach penalties and 
the sizes and shapes of the locales.)
5. Scenarios
7:00AM
1 December
Scenario
Start
7:00AM
2 December
Scenario
Start
Napoleon’s Triumph has two scenarios, 
identiﬁed by their start date:
2 December Scenario
• Description: Historical day of battle. 
This is the game’s main scenario.
• Allied Set-up. All Allied pieces are in 
play at start.
• Estimated playing time: 2 hours.
1 December Scenario
• Description: Historical Allied advance. 
More lines of play, longer playing time.
• Allied Set-up: Two Allied corps (Allied 
player’s choice) start in play. All others 
enter as reinforcements.
• Estimated playing time: 3 hours.
6. Setting up the Game
Game set-up is as follows: 
(1) Select a scenario to play.
(2) Agree on who will play which side.
(3) Get out the game board.
(4) Get out the markers. One black marker 
is for the Time Track. The red and blue markers 
are for the Morale Track. The other black mark-
ers are for the Command Tracks.
(5) Inventory the armies. The pieces that 
make up the armies’ initial strength should be 
placed face-up on the French and Allied Army 
displays.
(6) The Allies set up. The Allied player orga-
nizes his army into corps by secretly assign-
ing units (face-down) to commanders. The 
minimum number of units that must be initially 
assigned to each commander is printed next to 
the commander’s name in the Allied Army dis-
play; the maximum number of units that can be 
assigned to each commander is eight. In the 2 
December scenario, all of the Allied corps begin 
the game in play. In the 1 December scenario, 
the Allied player selects any two corps to start 
the game in play, and the others start the game 
off-map and will enter as reinforcements (see 
the reinforcement rules in section 10). The corps 
that start the game in-play must be placed in the 
set-up locale bearing the commander’s name. 
The pieces in a given corps may be in reserve 
or blocking any approach in that locale, but all 
the pieces in each corps must be together in the 
same position.
(7) The French set up. The French player 
organizes and sets up his army as the Allied 
player did in the previous step. The French 
corps (except Bernadotte’s and Davout’s) start 
on the map in both scenarios. Bernadotte’s and 
Davout’s corps start off-map and enter as rein-
forcements. Bernadotte and Davout must each 
be initially assigned at least one unit that is not 
a two-strength infantry unit. Suggestion: set-up 
goes faster if the French player begins to orga-
nize his pieces while the Allied player is orga-
nizing his. Doing so does not commit the French 
player to anything: he can still make changes 
after the Allied player ﬁnishes.
(8) The French player may detach up to six 
units from any of his on-map commanders and 
re-position them. They may not be more than 
two locales distant from their former command-
ers and may not be positioned in or adjacent 
to a red, green or black objective locale. The 
detached units may be placed either in reserve 
or blocking an approach. Note: a corps can be 
assigned more units than the capacity of the set-
up locale, provided that after detachments the 
capacity limits are not violated.
(9) The French player turns one of his 
artillery batteries face-up and names it as his 
ﬁxed battery. If it is in reserve, he should 
immediately reposition it to block an approach 
in its set-up locale. It may not move during the 
game. In all other respects it is a normal artillery 
unit, and may lead attacks and defenses.
7. Order of Play
The game is played as a series of rounds. 
Each space in the Time Track represents a round. 
The marker location tracks the current round.
A round is divided into two turns. The ﬁrst 
turn is the Allied player’s, and the second is the 
French player’s.
In a player’s turn, he may move his pieces 
and use them to attack enemy pieces.
At the end of each turn, to restore secrecy for 
any units that may have been revealed during 
that turn, both players are permitted to do out-
of-sight “shufﬂes” of their units. Units shufﬂed 
together must be in the same position. Units in 
a corps may not be shufﬂed together with units 
that are not in that corps.
8. Corps
A corps consists of one commander and one 
to eight units. Corps are created during set-up.
Corps membership can be indicated by plac-
ing the commander on top of one of the units in 
its corps and arranging the others next to it or 
behind it, as shown in the example below:
Note: this is just a convention to help players 
keep track of which units belong to which corps. 
Apart from this use, the physical arrangement of 
the pieces in a corps has no effect on play.
A unit can leave a corps by being 
detached from it. Once detached, a unit can 
remain detached indeﬁnitely, or it can be later 
re-attached to a corps (either the corps it left or 
a different corps) by means of an Attach com-
mand (see section 9 for details).
Players can voluntarily detach units from 
corps when speciﬁcally allowed to do so by the 
rules. Also, units can be involuntarily detached 
from their corps during attacks (see section 11) 
and retreats (see section 12).
The maximum number of units in a corps is 
eight. The minimum number of units is one. (The 
minimum number of units that must be assigned 
to a corps during set-up applies only during set-
up; it does not apply once play begins.)
A commander cannot detach its last unit. 
If all of the units in a corps are eliminated, the 
corps commander is eliminated. A corps can 
never be just a commander.
The pieces in a corps must always be in the 
same position at all times.
sections 4-9 • game board, scenarios, setting up the game, order of play, corps

4 Napoleon’s Triumph
When multiple corps or detached units are in 
the same position, the pieces should be grouped 
and arranged to make it clear which pieces are 
in which corps and which pieces are detached.
Normally, the number of units allowed in 
a locale is limited by its capacity. However, a 
corps may move by road through a locale with 
a capacity that is less than the number of units 
in the corps, provided it does not end its move 
there.
9. Commands
A player takes his turn by executing 
commands. Commands are carried out in any 
order the player chooses, but one command must 
be completed before another can be begun.
There are two classes of commands: corps
commands and independent commands. 
A corps command is a command given by 
a commander to some or all of the units in its 
corps. Each commander can give only one corps 
command per turn. In addition, the Allied player 
is limited to a total of ﬁ ve corps commands per 
turn (note: the French player has no correspond-
ing limit).
An independent command is a command 
given to a single detached unit. The Allied 
player is limited to three independent commands 
per turn and the French player is limited to four 
independent commands per turn.
The types of commands are as follows:
• Corps Move (corps command). The 
commander and all of the units in its 
corps move together. Immediately prior 
to the move, a player is permitted to 
detach units from the corps: the detached 
units are not moved by the command.
• Detach Move (corps command). A 
commander detaches one or more units 
from its corps and moves them together. 
The commander and the remaining 
units in the corps are not moved by the 
command. Units moved by this type of 
command cannot move by road.
• Attach (corps command). A commander 
can attach a single unit to its corps. The 
commander and the unit must both be in 
the same position at the time the com-
mand is given. The command may be 
given to a detached unit or a unit in a 
different corps; if given to a unit in a dif-
ferent corps, the command detaches the 
unit from its old corps as part of attach-
ing it to its new corps.
• Unit Move (independent command). 
A single detached unit is moved. If the 
unit is not already detached, it can be 
detached as part of this command.
A unit cannot be moved by two commands 
in the same turn. Players should note, however, 
that an Attach command does not move a unit, 
so a unit can be given a move command and 
then an Attach command in the same turn.
The following example shows some com-
mands in action:
In this example, Kienmayer uses a Detach 
Move command (1) to detach a unit and move 
it out of the locale to the left. Dokhturov uses 
an Attach command (2) to detach a unit from 
Kienmayer’s corps and attach it to its own 
corps. Langeron uses a Corps Move command 
(3) to move its entire corps out of the locale to 
the right, but before it does, it detaches the top-
rear unit in the corps. A Unit Move command 
(4) is then used to move that detached unit back 
into reserve. 
The Command Track helps players keep 
track of commands. When a player carries out 
a command, his opponent puts a marker on the 
corresponding space on the track. Players should 
state their commands aloud as needed to ensure 
that they are correctly tracked.
10. Movement
Pieces only move by command. Multiple 
pieces moving by a single command must move 
together: at the same time and from the same 
position to the same position.
Pieces may not cross or block an impassable 
approach.
Pieces may attempt to move into an enemy-
occupied locale during their move; such a move 
is an attack: see section 11 for details.
A piece in reserve at the start of the turn 
(and which is not moving by road) has the fol-
lowing movement choices:
• into reserve in an adjacent locale.
• to block an approach of the locale it 
occupies.
 The following example demonstrates these 
choices:
In this example, the unit can move to block 
the approaches to the left or the right in the 
locale it occupies, or could move into reserve in 
the locales to the left or the right. It cannot move 
to the top or bottom because the approaches on 
those sides are impassable.
A piece blocking an approach at the start of 
a turn has the following movement choices:
• into reserve in the locale it occupies.
• into reserve in the locale on the other 
side of the approach it is blocking.
The following example demonstrates these 
choices:
In this example, the unit can move to the left, 
into reserve in the locale it occupies, or it can 
move to the right, into reserve in the adjacent 
A piece moving by road can move farther 
than it could otherwise. Along a main road a 
piece can move up to three locales. Along a 
local road or a combination of main and local 
roads a piece can move up to two locales.
In a single turn, a piece can only move along 
connected roads. Roads in the same locale are 
not necessarily connected, as shown below:
There are two unconnected roads in this 
locale. A piece moving by road could not switch 
from one road to the other in a single turn.
A piece that begins the turn in a locale con-
taining multiple unconnected roads can leave 
the locale by any of those roads.
Pieces moving by road must start their move 
in reserve. They must also end their move in 
reserve, unless all of them are cavalry (the move 
can include a commander). Cavalry moving by 
road can end their move blocking an approach, 
but the approach must be crossed by a road that 
is connected to the road on which they moved. 
The units must be brieﬂ y turned face-up to 
conﬁ rm that they are cavalry.
Historically, moving large formations of men 
by road was complex and difﬁ cult if there were 
other friendly units moving in the same area at 
the same time, or if there were large numbers 
sections 8-10 • corps, commands, movement

of the enemy nearby. To simulate this, when a 
corps with two or more units moves by road, the 
following rules apply:
• The corps cannot enter a locale if the 
reserve area of that locale contains units 
that moved into it earlier in that same 
• After the corps enters a locale (even if 
just to pass through it), no other units 
can move into or through the reserve 
area of the locale for the rest of the turn.
• The corps must stop its move on enter-
ing a locale if there is an adjacent locale 
that contains an enemy corps of two or 
more units.
The example below illustrates road move-
ment:
In this example, Legrand’s corps of four units 
moves two locales by road. It begins its move 
in the top locale, enters and passes through the 
middle locale, and enters and ends its move in 
the bottom locale.
Reinforcements are pieces that start the 
game off-map and enter the map during play. 
The rules in this section govern when, where, 
and how they enter. Once in play, they behave 
like other pieces.
French reinforcements are eligible to enter as 
shown on the Time Track; if that time is prior to 
the start of the scenario, the reinforcements are 
eligible to enter from the scenario’s ﬁ rst round 
on. In the 1 December scenario, Allied rein-
forcements are eligible to enter on the scenario’s 
ﬁ rst round.
A player may voluntarily delay reinforce-
ment entry. Important note: the French army’s 
victory conditions are much easier to achieve if 
they can avoid bringing on any reinforcements 
during the game (see section 16).
Reinforcements enter play on reinforcement 
entry locales (blue for French, red for Allied). A 
player chooses which entry locales will be used 
by which pieces at the time he brings them on. 
Different pieces may use different locales.
Reinforcements may not use an entry locale 
if it is enemy-occupied.
Reinforcements must use road movement to 
enter play.
Reinforcements require commands to enter 
play. They may be detached prior to entry and 
enter by Unit Move commands, or they can 
enter as corps by Corps Move commands. Pieces 
entering as a corps must come on together at the 
same entry locale by the same road.
The Allies were historically deceived about 
the French reinforcements. To simulate this, 
French reinforcement units may be given two 
move commands in their turn of entry, and 
French reinforcement commanders can give 
two commands in their turn of entry. The second 
command cannot be issued until after the ﬁ rst 
has been completed, but it need not be consecu-
tive with it (i.e. – Davout could enter by a Corps 
Move command, then other French commands 
could be executed, and then Davout’s corps 
could move again by a second Corps Move 
command). Note: French reinforcements have 
to move by road on the ﬁ rst command, but not 
the second.
11. Attacks
An attack is when pieces attempt to move 
into an enemy-occupied locale. Attacks occur 
during movement and are part of movement.
The move command which causes the attack 
is called the attack command. The locale into 
which the attack is made is the defense locale. 
The adjacent locale from which the attack is being 
made is the attack locale. The defender’s side of 
the approach between the two locales is called 
the defense approach, and the attacker’s side of 
that same approach is the attack approach. The 
reserve area of the defense locale is the defense 
reserve. The reserve area of the attack locale is 
the attack reserve.
Normally pieces are moved one command at 
a time. In the following cases, however, multiple 
commands can be carried out at the same time to 
make a single combined attack move:
• Two or more Corps Moves may be com-
bined if the corps start their move in the 
same position and are attacking across 
the same attack approach.
• Two Unit Moves may be combined if 
both units are artillery and block the 
same attack approach. The units must 
be brieﬂ y turned face-up to conﬁ rm that 
they are artillery.
Each command in a combined move still counts 
separately against applicable command limits.
The defender does not expend commands in 
an attack.
An attack can be made by road movement 
if all the attacking units are cavalry (the attack 
can include a commander). The units must be 
brieﬂ y turned face-up after their move is over to 
conﬁ rm that they are cavalry.
Cavalry units cannot lead an attack, lead 
a defense, or counter-attack if the defense 
approach is obstructed. (Leading units and 
counter-attacks are explained in the attack pro-
cedure below.)
An attack is resolved according to the fol-
lowing procedure:
(1) Attack Threat. The attacker names the 
attack approach. He does not yet announce the 
command and pieces he will use to make the 
attack. That announcement comes later in this 
procedure and is called the attack declaration.
(2) Retreat Option. The defender may 
defend or retreat. He defends if he names one or 
more defending pieces for the locale. If he has 
no defending pieces, he retreats.
Pieces blocking the defense approach must 
all be named as defending pieces. Pieces block-
ing approaches other than the defense approach 
cannot be named as defending pieces. Any or all 
of the pieces in defense reserve may be named 
as defending pieces by the defending player, 
within the following restrictions:
• Pieces in reserve cannot be named as 
defending pieces if there are any pieces 
blocking the defense approach.
• Defending pieces in reserve can include 
any number of pieces from any number 
of corps, but can include no more than 
one detached unit.
• A commander cannot be a defending 
piece by itself; it can only be named 
along with at least one unit in its corps.
• Pieces cannot be named as defending 
pieces if they were previously named as 
defending pieces against an attack from 
a different approach earlier that same 
• Pieces cannot be named as defending 
pieces if they retreated after combat ear-
lier that same turn (they may be named if 
they retreated before combat earlier that 
same turn).
The act of declaring pieces as defending 
pieces neither changes their position nor turns 
them face-up.
If no defending pieces are named, then the 
defender must retreat (see section 12). The 
attacking player then makes his attack decla-
ration, and moves his pieces into the defense 
locale. (Exception: if the attacker reveals that 
the attack is by an artillery unit that could have 
led the attack as per step 5 of this procedure 
had the defender not retreated, the artillery unit 
does not have to move.) A retreat before com-
bat ends the attack: the remaining steps in the 
attack procedure are ignored.
(3) Feint Option. If he so chooses, the 
attacker may declare his attack a feint. (Note: if 
the attack is by road move, it must be declared a 
feint). If a feint is declared:
sections 10,11 • movement, attacks

6 Napoleon’s Triumph
• The attacking player makes his attack 
declaration, but the attacking pieces do 
not enter the defense locale and will end 
their move in the attack locale instead. 
If the attacking pieces start their move 
blocking the attack approach, they must 
end it in place. If the attacking pieces 
start their move in reserve (or, in the 
case of pieces moving by road, in a dif-
ferent locale), they may end it either in 
the attack reserve or blocking the attack 
approach. It is not permitted to split 
the pieces making the attack move and 
have some blocking while others are in 
reserve.
• If the defending pieces are in reserve, 
the defending player may choose to 
advance any or all of them to block the 
defense approach, but must advance at 
least one unit. If a corps is split up by the 
advance, the units that are not with their 
corps commander are detached.
Declaring an attack a feint ends the attack: 
the remaining steps in the attack procedure are 
ignored.
(4) Defense Declaration. The defending 
player names the defense leading units. The 
choice of leading units is restricted as follows:
• The units must come from the defend-
ing pieces named in step 2 of this proce-
dure.
• Zero, one, or two units can be named if 
the defense approach is wide; zero or 
one if it is narrow.
• Units in reserve cannot be paired as 
leading units unless they are of the same 
type and in the same corps.
• A unit in reserve with a strength of one 
cannot be named a leading unit.
As they are named, the leading units are 
turned face-up.
(5) Attack Declaration. The attacking 
player must name the attack command, the 
attack width and the attack leading units.
The attacking player declares the attack 
command (or commands, where permitted). 
The attacking pieces are the pieces moved by 
these commands. The attacking pieces remain in 
place until the attack is resolved.
The attack width determines the number of 
leading units that can be named (for both sides). 
If the attack approach is narrow, the attack is nar-
row. If the attack approach is wide, the attacking 
player can choose to declare the attack as wide 
or narrow. If the attacking player declares it 
narrow and there are two defense leading units, 
the attacking player chooses which one will be 
attacked: the other defense leading unit is no 
longer considered a leading unit and is turned 
face-down again.
The choice of leading units is restricted as 
follows:
• The units must come from the attacking 
pieces named earlier.
• Zero, one, or two units can be named if 
the attack is wide; zero or one if it is nar-
row.
• Units cannot be paired unless they are of 
the same type.
• A one-strength infantry or cavalry unit 
cannot be named a leading unit.
• A Corps Move attack cannot be led by 
artillery.
• An artillery unit cannot lead an attack if 
it is in reserve; it must be blocking the 
attack approach.
• Attacks resolved as feints or retreats 
before combat excepted (which don’t 
count because there are no leading units 
in such attacks), artillery-led attacks 
cannot be made from the same attack 
approach on consecutive rounds unless 
the attack locale is a hill and the defense 
locale is not.
As they are named, the leading units are 
turned face-up.
(6) Initial Result. The initial result is calcu-
lated as follows:
• Add together the strengths of the attack 
leading units.
• If the attack leading units are infantry 
and the defending pieces are blocking 
the defense approach subtract one.
• If there is a penalty in the defense 
approach that matches the type of the 
attack leading units and the defend-
ing pieces are blocking the defense 
approach, subtract one.
• Unless the attack leading units are artil-
lery, subtract the total strength of the 
defense leading units.
The initital winner is determined as follows:
• If the result is greater than zero, the 
attacker wins.
• If the result is less than zero, the defender 
wins.
• If the result is zero and the defend-
ing pieces are blocking the defense 
approach, the defender wins.
• If the result is zero and the defending 
pieces are in reserve, the side with more 
units in the attack (attacking pieces vs. 
defending pieces) wins. If both sides 
have the same number of units, the 
French win.
(7) Counter-Attack. If the attack leading 
units are not artillery, the defending player has 
the option to name units to counter-attack. The 
choice of units for a counter-attack is restricted 
as follows:
• The units must come from the defending 
pieces named in step 2 of this procedure 
and cannot be any of the leading units 
(note that a leading unit turned face-
down in step 5 is no longer considered a 
leading unit and can counter-attack if it 
is otherwise eligible).
• One or two units can be named, but 
two can be named only if both are of 
the same type and from the same corps. 
Note that two units can be named even if 
the attack is narrow.
• Infantry units may counter-attack only 
if the attacker won in the initial result 
calculation. Cavalry units can counter-
attack regardless of the initial result. 
Artillery units cannot counter-attack.
As they are named, the counter-attacking 
units are turned face-up. Each counter-attacking 
unit takes an immediate one-strength point loss.
(8) Final Result. The (reduced) strengths of 
the counter-attacking units are subtracted from 
the initial result calculated in step 6 to produce 
the ﬁnal result, and then the same tests that were 
applied to the initial result to determine the ini-
tial winner are re-applied to the ﬁnal result to 
determine the ﬁnal winner.
(9) Attacker Losses. If the attack leading 
units are artillery, the attacker does not take 
losses. Otherwise, the attacker losses are calcu-
lated as follows:
• Add one point for each defense leading 
unit.
• Add the number of points the ﬁnal result 
is below zero (i.e. - if the ﬁnal result is 
-2, then add two). Do not subtract any-
thing if the result is above zero.
The calculated losses should be applied to 
the attacking units in the following order:
• Losses are ﬁrst applied as evenly as pos-
sible to the leading units. The defending 
player chooses how to apply odd losses.
• If the leading units are eliminated, any 
excess losses are applied to other attack-
ing units named in step 5, with the choice 
going to the attacking player.
• If all the attacking units named in step 5 
are eliminated, any other excess losses 
are ignored.
(10) Defender Losses. The defender losses 
are calculated as follows:
• Add one point for each cavalry or infan-
try (but not artillery) attack leading unit 
named in step 5. (Note: this applies even 
if the units were eliminated in step 9.)
• Add the number of points the ﬁnal result 
is above zero (i.e. - if the ﬁnal result is 
+2, then add two). Do not subtract any-
thing if the result is below zero.
• If the attack leading units are cavalry 
or infantry, subtract one point for each 
defense leading artillery unit.
The calculated losses should be applied to 
the defending units in the following order:
section 11 • attacks

• Losses are ﬁ rst applied as evenly as pos-
sible to leading infantry and cavalry (but 
not artillery) units. The attacking player 
chooses how to apply odd losses.
• If the leading infantry and cavalry units 
are eliminated, any excess losses are 
applied as evenly as possible to coun-
ter-attacking units. The attacking player 
chooses how to apply odd losses.
• If the leading infantry and cavalry and 
counter-attacking units are eliminated, 
any excess losses are applied to other 
defending units named in step 2, with the 
choice going to the defending player.
• If all the defending units named in step 
2 are eliminated, any other excess losses 
are ignored.
(11) Completion. How the attack is com-
pleted depends on the ﬁ nal result:
• If the attack leading units are artillery, 
then all pieces for both sides remain in 
place. The attacking pieces do not move 
and the defending pieces do not retreat.
• If the attacker wins and the attack lead-
ing units are not artillery, then all the 
defending player’s pieces in the defense 
locale must retreat (see section 12) and 
the attacking pieces complete their move 
into the reserve position in the defense 
locale (the attacking pieces do not have 
the option to remain in place).
• If the defender wins, any attacking 
pieces blocking the attack approach 
must withdraw into reserve in the attack 
locale (this is not technically considered 
either a move or a retreat and is not gov-
erned by the movement or retreat rules). 
All attacking units are detached from 
their corps, except for one unit per corps 
named by the attacking player. Other 
units in the attack locale belonging to the 
attacking player do not withdraw and are 
not affected by this result. If the defend-
ing pieces are in reserve, the defending 
player may choose to advance any or all 
of them to block the defense approach, 
but must advance at least one unit. If a 
corps is split up by the advance, the units 
that are not with their corps commander 
are detached. 
Finally, any units turned face-up during 
the course of the attack are turned face-down 
again.
This completes the attack procedure.
After an attack, the following rules apply:
If an attack ended with the attacking pieces 
still in the attack locale, the command(s) are still 
expended for the attack, and the pieces are con-
sidered to have moved during the turn (i.e. – the 
pieces are not eligible to receive another move 
command that turn).
Attacking pieces moving by road may con-
tinue their move (and make additional attacks) 
if the defender retreated, but may not continue 
their move if the defender did not retreat.
If an attack was led by artillery, a second 
attack move may be made across that same 
attack approach that same turn, but the second 
attack move may not be led by artillery. Note: 
The attacker cannot use any of the same pieces 
in both attacks. This is because the same pieces 
cannot be moved by two different commands 
in the same turn. The defender can use the 
same pieces in both attacks: the rule prohibit-
ing the same pieces from defending different 
approaches in the same turn does not apply 
here because both attacks are against the same 
approach.
If an attack was resolved as a feint or as a 
loss for the attacker, no other attack move may 
be made across that same approach that same 
If an attack was won by the attacker (exclud-
ing retreats before combat and attacks where the 
attack leading units were artillery), no pieces 
other than the attacking pieces may enter the 
defense locale that turn.
Attack Example 1:
In this example, the top locale is occupied by 
a French unit in reserve and another blocking 
the approach. The bottom locale is occupied by 
an Allied unit in reserve. In step 1, the French 
player declares the attack threat. In step 2, the 
Allied player opts not to declare any defend-
ing pieces and retreats (see section 12 for the 
rules governing retreats). The French player 
then makes his attack declaration: to move the 
reserve unit by road using a Unit Move com-
mand. The unit is brieﬂ y turned face-up to 
conﬁ rm that it is cavalry, and is moved into the 
defense reserve. Because the defender retreated 
before combat, the attacking unit can continue 
moving by road after the attack.
Attack Example 2:
before.
 
 
In this example, before the attack the top 
locale is empty and the bottom locale is occu-
pied by an Allied unit in reserve. In step 1, the 
French player declares the attack threat.
 
3.
In step 2, the Allied player opts to defend, 
and declares the piece in reserve as the defend-
ing piece. In step 3, the French player declares 
his attack a feint and makes his attack move: a 
Unit Move attack by road, and moves his attack-
ing piece into the attack locale, opting to end his 
move blocking the attack approach. His unit is 
brieﬂ y turned face-up to conﬁ rm that it is cav-
alry before being turned face-down again. The 
defender then must move a unit up to block the 
defense approach and does so.
Attack Example 3:
In this example, the top locale is occupied by 
one French unit blocking the approach, and the 
bottom locale is occupied by two Allied units 
blocking the opposite approach. In step 1, the 
French player declares the attack threat. In step 
2, the Allied player must defend with the units 
blocking the approach as his defending pieces.
4.
5.
In step 3 (not shown), the attacker declares 
that the attack is not a feint. In step 4, the Allied 
player declares his leading unit and turns it 
face-up, revealing it to be an artillery unit. In 
step 5, the French player declares his leading 
unit and turns it face-up, revealing it as an 
artillery unit as well.
6.
initial result = +1
8.
ﬁ nal result = +1
In step 6, the initial result is calculated as 
+1, which is the unmodiﬁ ed strength of the 
attack leading unit, as there is no artillery ter-
rain penalty, and the strength of the defense 
leading unit is not subtracted from the result 
section 11 • attacks

8 Napoleon’s Triumph
because the attack leading unit is artillery. In 
step 7 (not shown), the defender cannot counter-
attack because the attack is led by artillery. In 
step 8, the initial result becomes ﬁ nal. 
10.
11.
In step 9 (not shown) the attacker takes no 
losses because the attack is led by artillery. 
In step 10, the defender losses are calculated: 
the defender takes a loss of one for the amount 
the attack result is above zero, and chooses to 
assess the loss against the non-leading unit 
(he does not have to assess it against the lead-
ing unit because that unit is artillery), which 
is revealed as a two-strength infantry unit and 
then reduced by one. In step 11, all units remain 
in place because the attack was led by artillery, 
and all units turned face-up are turned face-
down again.
Attack Example 4:
In this example, the top locale is occupied 
by one French unit blocking the approach and 
another in reserve, and the bottom locale 
is occupied by two Allied units blocking the 
approach. In step 1, the French player declares 
the attack threat. In step 2, the Allied player must 
defend with the units blocking the approach as 
his defending pieces.
4.
5.
In step 3 (not shown) the French player 
declares that the attack will not be a feint. In 
step 4, the Allied player declares his leading 
unit and turns it face-up, revealing it to be a 
one-strength infantry unit. In step 5, the French 
player declares that his attack will be a Unit 
Move command by his reserve unit. He declares 
the leading unit in the attack and turns it face-
up, revealing it to be a three-strength infantry 
unit.
6.
initial result = +1
7.
In step 6, the initial result is calculated: the 
strength of the leading unit (3), minus a penalty 
for infantry attacking an approach blocked 
by the enemy (-1), and minus the strength of 
the defense leading unit (-1), yields a result of 
+1, which is a win for the attacker. In step 7, 
the Allied player declares a counter-attack by 
his non-leading unit, which is turned face-up, 
revealing a three-strength cavalry unit, which is 
immediately reduced by one.
8.
ﬁ nal result = -1
9.
 
In step 8, the ﬁ nal result is calculated: the 
initial result (+1) is reduced by the strength of 
the counter-attacking unit (2), for a ﬁ nal result 
of -1, which is a win for the defender. In step 
9, the attacker loss is calculated: the number 
of defense leading units (1) plus the amount the 
result is below zero (1) yields a total loss of two. 
The loss is applied to the attack leading unit, 
reducing it to a strength of one.
10.
11.
In step 10, the defender loss is calculated 
as the number of attack leading units (1). No 
other modiﬁ ers apply. The loss is applied to the 
defense leading unit, eliminating it. In step 11, 
all units remain in place (the attacking unit does 
not withdraw to reserve because it already is in 
reserve), and all units turned face-up during the 
attack are turned face-down again.
12. Retreats
A retreat occurs when defending pieces 
are forced out of the locale they occupy by an 
enemy attack. 
A retreat is technically not a move; it does 
not require the expenditure of commands.
When a player’s pieces in a locale retreat, all
of that player’s pieces in the locale must retreat: 
none can remain behind.
Retreating units are turned face-up at the 
start of a retreat and face-down at the end.
Retreating units take losses as follows:
• Artillery units are eliminated.
• For each approach (other than the 
defense approach) occupied by infantry 
or cavalry units, a one-strength point loss 
is assessed if the approach is narrow, or 
two if it is wide. The retreating player 
chooses which infantry and/or cavalry 
units from the approach will take the 
losses.
• If there are infantry units in reserve that 
were not declared as defending pieces, a 
one-point loss is assessed if the defense 
approach was narrow, and two if wide. 
The retreating player chooses the reserve 
infantry unit or units that will take the 
loss. Important note: cavalry units in 
reserve do not take a loss when they 
retreat.
Pieces forced to retreat go into reserve in one 
or more adjacent locales. The retreating player 
gets to choose which of his pieces will retreat to 
which locales, with the following restrictions:
• The retreat may not be into the attack 
• The retreat may not be across an impass-
able approach.
• The retreat may not be into an enemy-
occupied locale.
• The retreat may not cause the total num-
ber of the player’s units in a locale to 
exceed the locale’s capacity. If the avail-
able retreat locales can hold some, but 
not all of the retreating units, the retreat-
ing player may put as many units into 
them (his choice of units) as will ﬁ t.
Pieces unable to retreat within the above restric-
tions are eliminated.
When a corps retreats, all units except one 
are detached from the corps. The retreating 
player may choose the unit that remains in the 
corps.
An example of a retreat is shown below:
In this example, the infantry piece at top 
was defeated in an attack by Vandamme’s corps 
opposite it, which forces all the defender’s pieces 
section 11-12 • attacks, retreats

in the locale to retreat. No losses are taken from 
the unit blocking the top approach because it is 
the defense approach. A one-point loss is taken 
from the left approach, eliminating one of the 
two infantry units there. The piece in reserve 
was cavalry and therefore takes no losses. The 
retreating pieces retreat to the right, which is 
the only direction legally available to them. The 
retreating pieces are turned face-up at the start 
of the retreat and face-down at the end.
13. Morale
French
Start Level
Allied
Start Level
Each army has a morale level which is indi-
cated by a marker on the Morale Track.
The losing army in an attack (as either the 
attacker or defender) loses one morale point for 
each strength point it lost in that attack. An army 
also loses one morale point for each strength 
point it loses in a retreat.
Example: If the attacking army wins in an 
attack, and loses two strength points while the 
defending army loses three, the attacking army’s 
morale would be unchanged and the defending 
army’s morale would be reduced by three. If the 
defending army lost an additional strength point 
in the subsequent retreat, it would lose an addi-
tional morale point as well.
When an army’s morale is at one, the next 
morale loss will result in demoralization, 
unless that loss is from an attack in which the 
attack leading units were artillery. (The ﬁnal 
demoralizing loss cannot come from an artillery 
attack.)
The French army gets four (4) morale points 
added to its current morale level when its ﬁrst 
reinforcement unit enters play.
14. Night
Night
1 December
to
2 December
There is a Night round between 1 and 2 
December.
In the night round, pieces cannot attack.
At the start of the night round, each side 
regains half (fractions rounded down) of its 
morale losses, up to a maximum of four points 
regained.
15. Elite Units
There are two kinds of elite units: 
heavy cavalry and Guard infantry.
Heavy cavalry are three-strength cavalry 
units.
An army takes a two-point morale penalty the 
ﬁrst time in the game it commits its heavy cav-
alry. Heavy cavalry is committed if: it is used to 
lead an attack or defense, counter-attack, retreat, 
or take a loss. This penalty is applied before and 
in addition to any normal morale reduction for 
losses. The penalty can reduce an army’s morale 
to one but cannot demoralize it.
Guard infantry are three-strength infantry 
units marked with the guard infantry symbol. 
Guard infantry is infantry and all rules that apply 
to infantry units apply to Guard infantry units, 
except where speciﬁcally noted otherwise.
An army takes a four-point morale penalty 
the ﬁrst time in the game it commits its Guard 
infantry. Guard infantry is committed if: it is 
used to lead an attack or defense, counter-attack, 
retreat, or take a loss. This penalty is applied 
before and in addition to any normal morale 
reduction for losses. The penalty can reduce an 
army’s morale to one but cannot demoralize it.
Guard infantry units cannot be paired with 
non-Guard infantry units in leading an attack or 
counter-attack.
If an attack includes Guard infantry, in step 1 
of the attack procedure the attacking player may 
declare an attack a Guard Attack. At that time, 
the attacking player must demonstrate that there 
is at least one Guard infantry unit among the 
potential attacking pieces by turning it face-up 
(the unit is turned face-down again immediately 
afterwards).
 A Guard Attack cannot be declared if the 
attack approach is obstructed, it cannot be 
declared a feint, and the attack leading units 
must be Guard infantry units. 
In a Guard Attack, one is subtracted from 
the strength of each one or two-strength defense 
leading units. Guard infantry units may lead 
attacks that were not declared as Guard Attacks 
(and may also lead a defense and counter-
attack), but there is no penalty for enemy units 
in those situations.
If a Guard Attack is defeated, the attacking 
army loses three additional morale points, above 
and beyond any morale reductions for losses, 
and cannot declare any more Guard Attacks for 
the rest of the game.
16. Winning the Game
If either army becomes demoralized, the 
game ends immediately. The undemoralized 
army wins a decisive victory. 
If neither army wins a decisive victory, an 
marginal victory is awarded after the last round 
is completed. This is based on control of objec-
tive locales, which are the locales marked with 
red, black, green, and blue stars. Note that some 
locales have more than one star and control of 
one of these locales gives control of two differ-
ent objective colors.
An army is considered to control an objec-
tive locale if both of the following requirements 
are met:
• It is occupied by a corps of that army 
with at least one infantry and/or artillery 
unit. Units are turned face-up after the 
game for veriﬁcation purposes.
• A path by road can be traced from the 
locale to a main road reinforcement 
entry locale for that army (the Allies 
have two such locales, the French one). 
The entry locale cannot be enemy-occu-
pied and the path cannot pass through an 
enemy-occupied locale.
The terms for a marginal victory depend on 
whether the French player brought any of his 
reinforcements into play. These are as follows:
Without French Reinforcements: the 
Allied player wins a marginal victory if:
• the Allies control at least one blue star 
objective, and
• the French do not control any green, red 
or black star objectives.
The French player wins a marginal victory if the 
Allied player does not.
With French Reinforcements: the French 
player wins a marginal victory if:
• the Allies do not control any blue star 
objectives, and
• the French control at least one green, 
one red, and one black star objective.
The Allied player wins a marginal victory if the 
French player does not.
17. Game Balance (optional)
This option allows players to change the bal-
ance of the game by reducing the initial morale 
level of one side. This can be done arbitrarily by 
mutual agreement between the players, or it can 
be done by a morale auction. A morale auction 
works as follows:
• The auction is held during step 2 of set-
up.
• The players take turns bidding. A valid 
bid is a number greater than or equal to 
zero, and greater than any previous bid. 
The number bid is the morale penalty the 
player is willing to accept in exchange 
for the right to choose which side he will 
play. Who bids ﬁrst is randomly deter-
mined.
• When it is his turn to bid, a player may 
choose to pass, in which case his oppo-
nent wins and the auction ends. The 
auction winner then chooses the side 
he wants to play and reduces its initial 
morale by his ﬁnal bid. The auction loser 
sections 12-17 • retreats, morale, night, elite units, winning the game, game balance

10 Napoleon’s Triumph
takes the other side at its normal initial 
morale.
18. The Santon (optional)
The Santon was a tall hill on the left ﬂank of 
the French army. Historically, the French ﬁxed 
battery was deployed there. The sides of the 
hill were so steep that work crews had to haul 
the guns to the top with ropes. The rules in this 
section permit a better simulation of this unique 
terrain feature.
Other than the French ﬁxed battery, artillery 
units occupying the Santon locale cannot lead 
an attack or defense.
If the French ﬁxed battery is set up in the 
Santon, the following special rules apply:
• The unit must set up in reserve.
• The unit is allowed to lead an attack 
or defense from reserve. It can do this 
across any of the three approaches in the 
• Approach penalties apply to attacks 
into the locale even when the defending 
pieces are in reserve.
19. Team Play (optional)
Although Napoleon’s Triumph is normally 
a two player game, it is possible to play with 
teams of two to four players per side.
Teams are formed prior to set-up by mutual 
agreement. Teams do not have to have the same 
number of players, and it is permitted for one 
side to be played by an individual while the 
other is played by a team.
After step 2 of set-up, each team holds a con-
ference away from the board. This conference is 
private: players on the other side may not listen 
in. In that conference, players should:
• Mutually agree on a rank order: the play-
ers on a team are ranked from most senior 
to most junior. The most senior player 
on a team is its commander-in-chief.
• Make plans. Players may freely discuss 
what they intend to do.
• Make corps assignments. The com-
mander-in-chief assigns each player, 
including himself, one or more corps.
Rank order and corps assignments must be 
revealed to the other side after the conference is 
over, but plans do not.
In the 1 December scenario, players may 
hold a second conference prior to the start of 
their own turn in the Night round. In that confer-
ence, the rank order may not be changed, but 
plans can be freely discussed and corps assign-
ments can be changed. Any corps assignment 
changes must be revealed to the other side after 
the conference. While conferring, players are 
away from the board.
Players from both teams should mutually 
agree whether or not to permit note-taking dur-
ing conferences.
While not in conference, the only game-
related communication players are permitted is 
order-passing. (Note: this should not be con-
strued as preventing players from making the 
various declarations required to play the game.)
Order-passing is done at the start of each 
turn before any moves are made. The com-
mander-in-chief for the team may write one 
order for each of the other players on his team. 
An order consists of a verb and zero or more 
nouns. Permitted verbs are: attack and defend. 
Permitted nouns are any named terrain features 
on the map. Examples of valid orders would be 
“attack”, “attack Telnitz”, “defend”, or “defend 
Pratze, Pratzeberg, Aujezd”. The recipient of the 
order cannot read it until the start of their team’s 
next turn. Other players cannot read the order 
at all.
The team play rules do not require the recipi-
ent of an order to obey it.
Orders must mean what they seem to mean: 
they may not be used to encode secret messages 
agreed upon in conference.
Orders should be saved until the end of the 
game so that their legality can be veriﬁed by the 
opposing side.
Players on a team should take care not to 
inadvertently give signals to each other through 
facial expressions, body language, etc.
The set-up procedure is altered for team play 
as follows:
• Assignment of units to corps is done by 
the commander-in-chief of the team.
• In the 1 December scenario, the Allied 
commander-in-chief 
decides 
which 
Allied corps will be in-play at start.
• Each player puts his own corps on 
the map. The player order is based on 
seniority: the most-senior player ﬁrst, 
the most-junior last.
• For French unit detachments, players 
may only detach units from their own 
corps. The player order is based on 
seniority: the most senior-ﬁrst, the most-
junior last. The detachment limit is for 
the team as a whole: each detachment 
made by a player reduces the number 
of detachments available for his more 
junior teammates to use.
• The French ﬁxed battery is selected by 
the French commander-in-chief.
In a friendly turn, play is in order of senior-
ity: the most senior player goes ﬁrst, the most-
junior player goes last. Each player must make 
all of his moves before the next player can make 
any of his. The independent command limit and 
Allied corps command limit are for the team 
as a whole: each command given by a player 
against these limits reduces the number of these 
commands available for his more junior team-
mates, even to the point of leaving them with 
none at all.
A player may issue a corps command only 
for his own corps. A player can give an indepen-
dent command to a unit only if, at the moment 
the command is given, he has the corps com-
mander closest to that unit (in the event of a tie, 
the more senior player wins).
For command purposes, distance between 
pieces is determined by ﬁnding the path between 
them that passes through the fewest locales. This 
path may cross enemy-occupied locales but may 
not cross impassable approaches. If pieces are in 
the same locale, the distance is zero; if they are 
in adjacent locales (not separated by an impass-
able approach) the distance is one, and so on.
A player can use an Attach Command to 
detach a unit from the corps of a different player 
and attach it to his own corps only if he is senior 
to that other player.
In an attack, the player for defending side 
who gets to make the retreat option decision is 
the player with the corps commander nearest to 
the defense locale (in the event of a tie, the more 
senior player gets control). If the decision is to 
defend, that player also decides which pieces 
will be the defending pieces. After the defend-
ing pieces are declared, control may change 
hands, as per the following:
• If there are no corps commanders among 
the defending pieces, control does not 
change hands.
• If there are corps commanders among 
the defending pieces, control passes 
to the senior player with a corps com-
mander among those pieces.
Corps controlled by different players cannot 
combine and make their moves together in an 
attack.
There are no individual victory conditions 
for members of a team. A team wins or loses 
together.
If the morale auction and team play options 
are both in use, the members of each team should 
agree on a representative to bid for them.
•
Contact information:
web: http://www.simmonsgames.com
support: support@simmonsgames.com
sales: sales@simmonsgames.com
sections 17-19 • game balance, the santon, team play 

Napoleon’s Triumph is a sequel to Bonaparte 
at Marengo. The basic design of the pieces, 
map, and the game mechanics all come from 
that earlier game.
Bonaparte at Marengo was a successful 
design, and a sequel was an obvious thing to do. 
The choice of Austerlitz as a subject was driven 
by the attraction of designing a wargame that 
was simple, large, and fast-playing, attributes 
that I didn’t think had ever been successfully 
combined in a wargame. Austerlitz may have 
been a larger battle than Marengo, but it was 
also a shorter one. Even if the new game would 
need double the number of pieces, it would need 
only half the number of turns. These two dif-
ferences seemed likely to cancel each other out, 
resulting in a game that was twice the size of its 
predecessor, but with roughly the same playing 
time.
While combining a large size and a short 
playing time was the main design goal, it was not 
the only one. Any craftsman hopes to improve 
on his previous work, and so did I here.
One particular area targeted for improve-
ment was command and control. Bonaparte at 
Marengo had only very abstracted command 
rules; the goal for the new game was to make 
changes that would result in a richer simulation 
of this aspect of Napoleonic warfare. The initial 
plan was to put corps designations on the pieces 
and add a few corps integrity rules to the game. 
This idea was attractive from a complexity point 
of view, but unfortunately, it didn’t work. The 
corps designations slowed down setting up the 
game, screwed up limited intelligence by giv-
ing away too much information when revealed, 
and most importantly didn’t give any real sense 
that the armies were made of eight or nine corps 
instead of ﬁfty or sixty brigades and regiments.
After a long period of deliberation and sulk-
ing, I ﬁnally decided to add command pieces to 
the game. This worked very well and gave the 
game a strong “two-level command” feel: when 
looking at the entire battleﬁeld, players think 
like army commanders and make decisions 
about corps; when looking at local situations, 
players think like corps commanders and make 
decisions about regiments and brigades (which 
generally correspond to pieces).
Although this approach solved the problem 
it was supposed to solve (and I think that players 
of Bonaparte at Marengo will ﬁnd it the most 
striking and pervasive difference in how the two 
games play), it was not a decision without cost. 
First, the amount of time it took to work out 
the command rules and do the physical design, 
prototyping, and costing of the command pieces 
blew the game’s production schedule. Second, 
adding commanders required two full sections 
of rules and blew the game’s complexity bud-
get.
On top of this, command was not the only 
problem encountered in adapting the rules for 
Bonaparte at Marengo to Austerlitz. A second 
major problem was the way combat worked. 
Marengo did not have the clashes of large forces 
that characterized Austerlitz, and the assault 
rules proved too lightweight. They resolved 
assaults quickly, but for high unit densities they 
worked poorly: they tilted the advantage too 
heavily to the defense, were not violent enough, 
and had too few decision points to be interest-
ing.
The obvious solution was to beef up the 
assault rules, but the complexity budget was 
already under severe stress from the command 
problem, and it was clear that something had to 
give: I either needed to give up altogether on the 
complexity goals for the game or I needed to 
make deep cuts in complexity elsewhere.
As a general observation, it is easy to ﬁx 
design problems by adding rules, but cutting 
rules is very hard work; the old comment “I’m 
sorry this letter is so long, but I did not have time 
to write a short one” applies even more strongly 
to rules writing than to writing in general. Game 
rules hang together as an interlocking system: 
cuts send ripples through the rest of the game, 
requiring changes elsewhere. Making a lot of 
cuts sends ripples everywhere and it becomes 
very hard to even see what you’re doing any-
more; cuts to reduce complexity can often create 
so many problems in other areas that the rules to 
ﬁx them can actually add more complexity back 
than the original cuts saved.
It took a long time, but ﬁnally a new combat 
system was devised. The new system reduced 
complexity by collapsing the three forms of 
attack in Bonaparte at Marengo (maneuver, 
bombardment, and assault) together to form a 
uniﬁed combat system. While anyone who has 
played Bonaparte at Marengo will recognize 
the relatedness of the systems, the changes are 
too extensive to be considered a mere modiﬁca-
tion of the old system and amount to a whole 
new system of combat resolution.
While the new system does cut enough com-
plexity from the game to bring the design as a 
whole back within its complexity budget, what 
particularly pleases me about it is that it adds a 
new quality that I really wanted for the game. 
An early design mantra for the new game was 
“Less Chess, more Poker.” One thing I like about 
Bonaparte at Marengo is that it is an intensely 
cerebral game, but I really wanted Napoleon’s 
Triumph to test players’ nerves as well as their 
intellects. The new combat system has this char-
acter because it is extremely violent: defeat in 
a single attack can cripple an entire corps. To 
increase your chance of winning in combat, 
you can commit more forces, but the more you 
commit in order to win, the greater the disaster 
if you lose. In Bonaparte at Marengo, a care-
ful and calculating approach could eliminate 
most risk, but in Napoleon’s Triumph, players 
will often just have to steady their nerves and 
commit, knowing full well that the results can 
be calamitous.
While the changes to the command and com-
bat rules might have been made adapting the 
game system for any large Napoleonic battle, 
there was also a major design problem speciﬁc 
to the battle of Austerlitz.
The essential core of the historical battle 
of Austerlitz is that it was a trap sprung by 
Napoleon. He concealed his strength and inten-
tions and lured the Allied army into attacking 
him. Simulating this in a game, however, is 
very difﬁcult. While victory conditions can be 
made that force the Allies to attack, it is highly 
unlikely that such an attack will succeed and 
therefore highly unlikely that the Allied player 
will win. At the same time, if the victory condi-
tions do not force the Allies to attack and allow 
them to win by standing on the defensive, the 
result just doesn’t feel like Austerlitz.
This problem puzzled me for a long time. A 
seeming endless series of ideas (variable victory 
conditions, secret victory conditions, random 
victory conditions, etc.) were tried, but they 
all failed. It was only through the development 
of victory conditions that changed when the 
French reinforcements arrived that the prob-
lem was ﬁnally solved. This system forces the 
Allies to attempt an attack, but once the French 
bring on their reinforcements (thereby springing 
Napoleon’s trap), the Allies get much easier vic-
tory conditions and just have to hang on to win.
Before closing there are two last things I 
want to discuss – the 1 December scenario and 
the team play option.
The 1 December scenario allows players 
to start the game on the day before the battle. 
Although it can take longer to play, I think the 
1 December scenario is in many ways more 
interesting than the 2 December scenario: it has 
more maneuver and there are more lines of play 
available for both sides. In pre-publication feed-
back, I have seen a certain prejudice against the 
1 December scenario on the grounds that it is 
“hypothetical” while the 2 December scenario 
is “historical”, but I think this is unfounded: both 
are equally historical and equally hypothetical. 
They both take a historical situation as it existed 
at a particular time and let players explore the 
hypothetical might-have-beens from there.
The team play option was never a part of the 
original design conception, and was only added 
at the very end of the design process. Part of the 
motive was that while Bonaparte at Marengo 
had a good solitaire version, a solitaire solution 
for Napoleon’s Triumph has been elusive. On 
the other hand, I think that Napoleon’s Triumph 
adapts well to team play. While I know that 
many gamers have difﬁculty in ﬁnding even 
one opponent, I do hope that folks will be able 
at some point to give this entertaining option a 
try.
Design Notes