NAPOLEON AT WAR QuadriGame 
Four complete Napoleonic Battle games in one package! 
Based upon the Borodino-NAW System • Separate 17"x22" Maps and Counter Sheets 
The Napoleon at War QuadriGame consists 
of four games, 
completely 
new and 
individual, and sold both separately and as 
a comple.te set. The battles depicted are 
among the most important of the 
Napoleonic wars; Marengo, Jena-Auer-
stadt, Wagram, and the Battle of Nations at 
Leipzig. 
The game mechanics used in this series are 
based .on the popular Borodino-Napoleon 
at Waterloo game system. The scale of the 
games ranges from 400 to 800 meters per 
hex, while each Game-Turn represents 
between one and two hours of real time. 
Units range in size from demi-brigades 
through divisions, with each Strength Point 
representing between 250 and 350 men or 
an equivalent amount of artillery. 
Movement is sequential and single-phased. 
Zones of Control are rigid and combat is 
mandatory between adjacent opposing 
units. Stacking is limited to one unit per 
hex. The Combat Results Table is relatively 
uncertain, with odds of 4 to 1, or better, 
necessary to insure at least a "Defender 
Retreat" result. Terrain ranges from the 
Austrian parade grounds south of Wagram 
to the rough and forested battlegrounds of 
Jena-Auerstadt. Game length varies from 
the five-Turn First Day Scenario of the 
Marengo Napoleon in Italy, 14 June 1800 
June, 1800 
Napoleon Bonaparte's 
campaign to drive the Austrians out of the 
strategic Piedmont area of north Italy has 
centered around the fortress city of Ales-
sandria. Bonaparte held the initiative until 
General 
Melas' 
Austrians 
launched 
a 
surprise attack on the French. Standing in 
the path of the whitecoated battalions are a 
few French demi-brigades clustered around 
the small town of Marengo. 
Marengo is a truly see-saw battle, for both 
the French and the Austrians must succeed 
both on the offensive and on the defensive 
to gain victory. The Austrians have to use 
their initial superiority to break through 
Battle of Nations to the twenty Game-Turn 
Grand Battle Scenario of that same game 
which simulates the entire three and 
one-half day Battle of Leipzig, the largest 
battle of the Napoleonic Wars. 
The basic rules to all four games in the 
Napoleon at War series are standardized 
and interchangeable and are presented in 
one four-page rules folder. In addition, each 
game also has its own Exclusive Rules 
folder, which includes historical set-up and 
reinforcements, 
special 
rules, 
Player's 
Notes and commentary by the game's 
designer. 
French resistance, seize their objectives, 
and then hold them against the French 
counterattack. To accomplish their objec-
tives, both Players must be adept at both 
offensive and defensive tactics, using 
infantry, cavalry and artillery in coordina-
tion. 
Jena-Auerstadt The Battle for Prussia, 14 October 1806 
At Jena, Napoleon prepares to assault 
what he believes to be the entire Prussian 
Army of Frederick William III. But for once 
Napoleon's instincts have failed him; it is 
only a rearguard of a few divisions. The 
main 
Prussian 
Army 
is 
miles 
away, 
marching through Auerstadt and on a 
collision course with the isolated and 
outnumbered French III Corps of Davout. 
Jena-Auerstadt is a simulation of these two 
battles, which decided the fate of Prussia in 
a single day. It is a game designed to 
reproduce the strategies as well as tactical 
options open to both sides. 
The game includes a separate map for each 
battle, as well as exclusive rules for night, 
fog, separate demoralization levels and 
Wagram The Peace of Vienna, 5-6 July 1809 
For a centrury or more the fields and 
villages between the east bank of the 
Danube and the little market town of 
Deutsch-Wagram had echoed with the 
cadence of drilling soldiers. This was the 
Marchfield, the autumn maneuver ground 
for the Austrian Army stationed nearby in 
Vienna. Now the maneuvers are for real. 
Napoleon is across the Danube determined 
to 
defeat 
the 
Austrian 
Army 
under 
Archduke Charles and end the war. 
His 
crossing is unopposed, and it is soon 
apparent that the Austrian plan is to allow 
the entini French Army to cross, the better 
to defeat it all in one place. 
victory conditions -
it is possible to lose 
one battle and still win the game! Also 
provided for are units leaving the map and 
transfering between battlefields, and the 
introduction of optional reinforcements. 
Wagram is a two-day "hammer and tongs" 
situation. On the second day, Austrian 
attacks may push the French to the brink of 
disaster. But with the superior numbers and 
leadership of the French the outcome 
remains in doubt until the climactic assault 
on the Austrian position. 
The Battle of Nations The Encirclement at Leipzig, 16-19 October 1813 
Napoleon's favorite tactic of maneuvering 
against the enemy's lines of communica-
tions and threatening their capitals had 
failed, and he felt he must resort to combat 
to decide the issue. With this in mind, he 
concentrated the Grande Armee at Leipzig 
in Saxony. The Allies gathered from every 
direction toward the final showdown battle 
against the French Emperor. 
The Battle of Nations is a simulation, on a 
divisional level, of the largest of Napoleon's 
battles, including five distinct armies (the 
French versus four hostile Allied armies). 
Scenarios allow the Player to start the 
action at the most crucial points in the 
course of the battle. The Grand Battle 
scenario of 20 Game-Turns recreates the 
entire battle. 
The Napo/eon at War QuadriGame will sell for. $12. Available 31 August 1975. 
Each Individual Folio Game will sell for .$5. Available 15 September 1975.