A Game of Strategic Maneuver, 
Political Alliances, and Tactical Battles
Designed and Created by Glenn Drover
and Dedicated to Christine Drover
Cover Art by Keith Rocco
Gameboard Artwork by Paul Niemeyer
Copyright © 2002 Eagle Games, Inc.

Warning!
“Attention Soldier! We are about to go into battle, but don’t be
afraid of this rules manual! It’s not as long as it looks. It contains
three different sets of rules so that it can be played by new
recruits, seasoned veterans, or salty old campaigners. It’s also full
of graphics and extra information so that it will be easy to follow.
The rules themselves won’t take that long to advance through.
O.K., pick a rules set (either Basic or Standard) and let’s get going.
Forward march!”
Rules Concept
The rules for Napoleon in Europe, like all other Eagle Games’ 
products in this series, are broken into three parts. 
The Basic Rules: These rules are short and easy to 
understand. They allow anyone to pick up the game and
begin playing in ten minutes. This is a good place to start if
you are not already familiar with games like these, or you are
just in the mood for a lighter game.
The Standard Rules: The Standard Rules allow for more
detailed play. They are more realistic, but are still very
playable. These rules are a good place for seasoned 
veterans to start.
The Advanced Rules: These rules build on the Standard Rules
and allow for the highest level of realism. They make the
game play a little slower and possibly longer, but are perfect
for the player that wants to add depth to the game. All
advanced rules are optional and may be added individually or
in their entirety by mutual consent of all players before the
game begins. This allows players to add certain rules that
they like, without having to add them all.
The Game
Napoleon in Europe is a game of grand strategy and tactical battles
during the period between 1796 and 1815, an era dominated by
the military genius of Napoleon Bonaparte. The pieces represent
armies of infantry, cavalry, and artillery, as well as individual great
leaders whose abilities impacted the outcomes of battles. 
The strategy and tactics used in the game are based on those of
the era, while remaining fast and playable. Players must build
armies and alliances while maneuvering over a map of Europe to
gain an advantage in battle. Once armies collide and battle is
joined, players must use Napoleonic tactics to defeat the enemy
army. Artillery bombardments, infantry fire, and thunderous cavalry
charges must be used to break the enemy’s battle line.
Gameplay
Napoleon in Europe is extremely easy to play. The pieces (armies
of infantry, cavalry and artillery, or leaders) occupy the regions on
the map, and may move from one region to another adjacent
region. When two enemy armies occupy the same region, a battle
is fought. Both armies are removed from the mapboard and are
lined up across from each other in battle lines. Each side takes
turns attacking the enemy until victory is achieved. 
Become the largest, most powerful nation in Europe and 
win the game. 

Game Contents
This game contains the following:
■1 gameboard (in 3 segments) that depicts Europe during the
time of Napoleon
■1 Rules Manual (with 3 sets of rules: Basic, Standard, 
and Advanced)
■1 Counter Sheet (with 180 circular cardboard counters)
■1 dice bag (with 4 dice)
■1 deck of 90 cards (Random Event, Effect, Innovations, and
4 blank)
■1 Battleboard (for tactical battles in the Standard and
Advanced Rules)
■2 Reference/ Tracking Cards
■16 plastic runners:
4 Horses (2 Brown, 1 Black, and 1 Gray)
12 Troops (3 Blue, 2 Green, 2 Gray, 1 Red, 
1 Purple, 1 Yellow, 1 Tan, and 1 Light Blue) 
Gameboard Clarifications
Capital City Symbols
These circular symbols are not separate regions, but only desig-
nate the regions that they are in as Capital Regions.
- Finland borders both St. Petersburg and Sweden
- Caucasus borders Armenia
- Tripolitania borders Tunisia
- Denmark borders Sweden
- Constantinople borders Anatolia
- Sicily does NOT border Naples
- Gibraltar does NOT border Morocco
- London does NOT border Picardy
- Egypt is not split into two regions
Sea Movement
- North Sea borders Baltic Sea
- Mid-Atlantic borders Barbary Coast
- Black Sea borders Aegean Sea, (however, a player may only
move between these two Sea Areas with the permission of the
player who controls Constantinople AND Anatolia – usually the
Ottoman player)
- Any island on the mapboard without a name can be occupied by
land units, but do not count for purposes of production, cards, or
toward a player’s total regions.

The Game Board
Most of the game board is a map of Europe divided into
Regions (land) and Sea Zones (water). Pieces may not
move in Sea Zones.
Each land Region acts like a square on a checkerboard.
They are the “spaces” that dictate movement. Players
can move their pieces in any direction from one region to
any other adjacent region (regions that are next to each
other). Unlike checkers, players may have as many
pieces as they want in any region. If any region gets too
crowded, simply replace all the pieces with a FLAG
BEARER piece and place the army near the edge of the
board. This “army” may move together to simplify move-
ment. Pieces may join or leave the army represented by
the flag whenever the player wants as long as they do
not use more than their allotted Movement Points for that
turn.
Some of the regions are within a colored border. These
regions are “homeland” regions that make up one of the
major nations of the game. These regions are owned at
the start of the game by the player who controls that
nation, and whose pieces are the same color as the
homeland regions. (For Example: The player who starts
the game as France, owns all the regions that are
enclosed in blue and has control of all the blue pieces.)
Non-homeland regions, also called Minor Nations, have
no overlay color. They are a plain brown color with no
colored border. 
Ownership of Regions
■A player’s “Homeland” regions always belong to 
that player unless an enemy player has one or 
more infantry pieces actually in the region (thus
occupying it).
■Non-homeland regions (also called Minor Nations)
are owned by the last player to move an infantry
piece into the region. To show which player owns
a Minor Nation, the player should place one of his
nation’s “Control Markers” in the region. (Control
Markers contain the same symbol as that nation’s
capital – see below). Unlike enemy homeland
regions, the infantry piece does not have to stay in
the region for that player to maintain ownership. 
■A player may own an Enemy homeland region only
as long as he has at least one of his infantry pieces
in that region (thus occupying it).
■Only infantry pieces may change the ownership
(control) of a region. 
The Major Nations
There are seven major nations that the players can 
control. Each one of them has a particular color shared
by the “Homeland” border, and the pieces of that nation.
Nation
Capital
Capital Symbol
Paris
Britain
London
Berlin
Russia
Moscow
Ottoman
Constantinople
Austria
Vienna
Madrid

The Pieces
The pieces represent the armies of Infantry (soldiers on
foot with muskets and bayonets), Cavalry (soldiers on
horseback), Artillery (cannons), and Leaders (Generals
who lead the soldiers). Infantry, Cavalry, and Artillery
pieces are also called “Armies”. The pieces are moved
around the board to attack enemy players’ armies and to
take over regions. 
Below is a chart that gives you all the information that
you need about the pieces:
Attack Dice: 1
Attack Dice: 3
Cavalry Pieces are mounted on a brown horse
Attack Dice: 4 (In front rank) or 2 (In rear rank)
Special: Can attack from rear rank
Attack Dice: 3 (In front rank)
Special: Leaders cannot be attacked.
Special: Leaders in the rear rank get 2 
rally attempts (see below)
Leader pieces are mounted on a gray horse
Flag Bearer
The Flag Bearer has no function in the game
other than to mark the location of very large
armies so that they may be placed off to the 
side of the board. This prevents too many pieces in one
region from cluttering up the board.
Nation
Color
Blue
Britain
Red
Purple
Russia
Green
Ottoman
Tan
Austria
Grey
Yellow
Sea Region
Light Green
Neutral
Dark Brown

How to Win
When using the Basic Rules, there are two ways to play
Napoleon in Europe. The players should agree on what
type of game they are playing before they start. 
1) Total Victory: In “Total Victory” games, players are
eliminated when all of their homeland regions are
simultaneously occupied by other players’ infantry
pieces. As soon as all of a player’s homeland
regions are occupied, all of his pieces are immedi-
ately removed from the board, and he is eliminated
from the game. In total victory games, the winner is
the last remaining player. 
Limited War: In “Limited War” games, the game
ends after a predetermined number of Rounds (12
for short games, 18 for medium length games, and
24 for long games). When the game is over, all 
players count up their total regions and subtract the
number that they started with (homeland regions) to
determine whose empire grew the most. If a player
starts the game with more than one nation under his
control, he must add up all the regions gained by all
of his nations and then divide that total by the 
number of nations that he started the game with.
Players are not eliminated when their homeland is
occupied, but they must control at least one of their
homeland regions to build new units. 
The wars of Napoleon’s time were limited wars, with
limited objectives. The monarchs of the day fought to
increase their lands and power. Complete conquest
of another major nation and elimination of another
monarch’s dynasty was very rare. It set a dangerous
example, and upset the delicate balance of power in
Europe. The other major nations would not allow it,
and would band together to punish the offender.
Setting up the Game
Before starting, the players must choose which kind of
game they will play (Total or Limited), and they must 
also choose their “Setup”. There are three setups 
recommended for the Basic Game (but feel free to 
invent your own or use one of the historical scenarios
from the back of the manual).
How Many Players?
Players take control of different Nations depending on
how many players there are at the beginning of the
game. See the “Players” notes after the list for each
setup. If a player controls more than one Nation, he
must operate each one as a separate nation for cards,
production of new pieces, and winning. These nations
start the game as “Allies” and may move and fight togeth-
er (see below). 
I. EVEN STEVEN
Each nation gets the same starting pieces and may set
them up anywhere inside their nation(s)’ homeland 
borders. Each Player gets: 8 Infantry, 5 Cavalry, 
3 Artillery, and 1 Leader per nation.
NOTE: When picking nations, players can either pick
them or draw them randomly. If drawing randomly, just
place one piece of each nation in the box top and have
each player draw them out in turn.
Two Players: Each player takes turns picking a nation
until both players have picked three. The remaining
nation is “Neutral” and has no pieces.
Three Players: Each player takes turns picking one
nation until all three have picked two. The remaining
nation is neutral and has no pieces.
Four Players: Each Player takes turns picking one
nation. The remaining three nations are neutral and have
Five Players: Each Player takes turns picking one nation.
The remaining two nations are neutral and have no
pieces. 
Six Players: Each Player takes turns picking one nation.
The remaining nation is neutral and has no pieces.
Seven Players: Each Player takes turns picking 
one nation.

II. MIDDLE POWERS
Each player gets different starting pieces and may set
them up anywhere inside their nation(s)’ homeland 
borders. Starting pieces for player controlled nations:
France: 10 Infantry, 5 Cavalry, 3 Artillery, 1 Leader
Great Britain: 6 Infantry, 3 Cavalry, 1 Artillery, 1 Leader
Prussia: 10 Infantry, 5 Cavalry, 3 Artillery, 1 Leader 
(The Prussian player should use the light blue pieces 
in this scenario)
Russia: 8 Infantry, 4 Cavalry, 2 Artillery, 1 Leader
Ottoman: 7 Infantry, 3 Cavalry, 1 Artillery, 1 Leader
Austria: 12 Infantry, 6 Cavalry, 4 Artillery, 1 Leader 
Spain: 7 Infantry, 3 Cavalry, 1 Artillery, 1 Leader 
NOTE: When picking nations, players can either pick
them or draw them randomly. If drawing randomly, just
place one piece of each nation in the box top and have
each player draw them in turn.
Two Players: Each player takes turns picking a nation
until both players have picked three. The remaining
nation is “Neutral” and has no pieces.
Three Players: Each player takes turns picking one
nation until all three have picked two. The remaining
nation is neutral and has no pieces.
Four Players: Each Player takes turns picking one
nation. The remaining three nations are neutral and have
Five Players: Each Player takes turns picking one nation.
The remaining two nations are neutral and have 
Six Players: Each Player takes turns picking one nation.
The remaining nation is neutral and has no pieces.
Seven Players: Each Player takes turns picking 
one nation.
III. STOP THE FRENCH!
France against everyone! One player controls France
and is almost as powerful as all other players combined.
They will have to work together to match the mighty
French. The French Player gets 5 Infantry, 2 Cavalry, 
1 Artillery, and 1 Leader for each nation that starts the
game against him. These pieces must be set up within
the French homeland (Blue). 
Every other nation in play gets 6 Infantry, 3 Cavalry, 2
Artillery, and 1 Leader that is set up anywhere inside that
nation’s homeland borders.
All non-French players start the game as allies, but do not
have to remain allied. In order to win, a player may want
to break his alliance to attack another anti-French player.
He may even want to help the French player or ally with
him in order to become the most powerful nation.
The first player controls France. All other players choose
from the remaining major nations to control. The game
plays best when four or more major nations are active.
Suggested distribution:
Two players: The French Player would control France,
and the non-French player would control Great Britain,
Austria, and Russia. 
Three players: The non-French players would control
Great Britain/Spain and Austria/Russia.
Four players: The non-French players would control
Great Britain/Austria, Russia/Spain, and Prussia/ Ottoman. 
Five Players: The non-French players would control
Great Britain, Russia, Austria, Prussia
Six Players: The non-French players would control Great
Britain, Austria, Russia, Prussia, and Spain
Seven Players: All nations are played. 

The Turns and Sequence of Play
Who Goes First?
The players may determine this with a dice roll. The
player with the highest roll goes first. The other players
then take their turn going clockwise around the board.
This remains the turn order for the rest of the game.
If playing a historical scenario from the back of the rules
manual, the starting player is listed for each scenario. 
The Round
Each player will take his turn in order. After all players
have taken their turn, the Round is over. New Rounds
are played until the game ends.
Sequence of each Player’s Turn
Each Player’s turn consists of the following four Phases:
■Movement: Player 1 moves any or all of his pieces
■Battles: Player 1 resolves all battles in any order that
he chooses
The winner of each Major Battle (see Battles
below) draws a card
■Draw Cards: Player 1 draws one card for every
Capital Region and 1 card for every 10 regions that
he owns (see Cards below)
■Production (Build New Pieces): Player 1 may turn in
any combinations of cards that will give him pieces
and place the new pieces in his homeland regions.
During a player’s turn, he may move any, all, or none of
his pieces. Infantry and Artillery pieces may move 1
region per turn (They each have 1 Movement Point).
Cavalry and Leaders may move 1 or 2 regions per turn
(They each have 2 Movement Points).
Whenever a piece moves into a region containing enemy
pieces, it must stop and fight a battle. It cannot move
any further that turn. Battles are fought after all pieces
have finished moving. Pieces may move into or through
empty regions or regions containing friendly pieces (their
own, or other players pieces who are friendly i.e. “allied”-
see below).
Amphibious Movement
Each player may move pieces from any region that 
contains an Anchor symbol to any other region that 
contains an anchor symbol. This move constitutes that
piece’s entire movement for that turn (a piece must start
it’s movement in the first Port Region and end it’s 
movement for the turn in the second Port Region).
There are four limits to amphibious movement:
1) On a player’s turn, that player may only move 
4 pieces amphibiously per Capital Region that 
he owns 
• Allies’ capitals do not count for this 
calculation
• Capitals of major nations that start the game as
neutral do not count toward this total). 
• The British player may move 6 
pieces per Capital per turn.
THE BRITISH NAVY:
During the Napoleonic era, the British navy 
was the most powerful navy in the world, 
and dominated the seas around Europe.
• St. Petersburg does not count as a capital 
in the Basic Rules (Russia has only one 
capital – Moscow).
2) All pieces moved amphibiously must come from 
the same region and travel to a single destination
(one region). 
3) Whenever a player moves pieces amphibiously to 
a region that he or his ally does not already own 
(i.e. neutral or enemy owned), he must roll one die
for each piece making the move. If a “1” is rolled, that
piece is eliminated before it arrives at its destination.
Any pieces attempting to land in the Homeland
Regions of Great Britain (Red Outline) are 
eliminated on a roll of “1” or “2”.

If a player has amphibiously moved even one piece
into a region where he is fighting a battle, the enemy
pieces get +1 to hit during that battle (The enemy hits
when he rolls 5 or 6 instead of just 6)
Allied Nations
Allied nations are nations that are fighting on the same
side against a common enemy. Allied nations may be
other players with whom you have an “alliance”, or
nations controlled by a single player (as called for in a
setup or historical scenario). In the Basic Rules, players
may declare that they are “allies”. If both players agree,
then they are allies until either one of them declares that
the alliance is over. 
Alliances have two advantages:
1) Allied players may take their turns together. They
may move, fight battles, draw cards, and produce
new pieces during either player’s turn, but not in both
players’ turn in a single round (they must choose
only one). 
2) Allied players may move their pieces into the same
region without fighting a battle against each other.
Either player may declare an end to the alliance at the
beginning of his turn (before moving any of his pieces).
When this occurs, any pieces that are in the same 
region at the end of that player’s turn must fight a battle
per normal.
Diplomacy
Although the basic game includes no formal diplomatic
rules, players are encouraged to take time between turns
to meet with each other and make agreements. In these
meetings they can agree to alliances, card trades, 
who gets which region, or anything else that is not 
disallowed by the rules.
Neutral Major Nations
Major Nations not controlled by a player at the beginning
of the game are Neutral. Neutral major nations have no
pieces. The homeland regions of neutral major nations
are treated exactly like Minor Nations in these games.
They may be occupied and moved through normally.
Their capitals do not count toward extra cards or adding
to the number of pieces that may be moved amphibious-
ly. The pieces of neutral major nations may also be used
by players who run out of pieces in their own color.
Cards
Cards are used in the Basic Rules to determine how
many new pieces that a player may build and place in
his nation’s homeland. In the Basic Rules, only the
graphic symbols at the bottom of the cards have 
meaning, not the words in the top half of the cards.
Gain two Political
Action Points.
Royal Marriage! 
Example Card
Infantry unit 
artwork
Spanish (yellow)
Infantry (square;
with a letter “I” )
L
Napoleon

Drawing Cards
Cards are drawn by each player after their movement
and battle phases.
■Winning a Major Battle (Immediately after the battle):
1 Card
■For Each Capital Region Owned by the Player: 
1 Card
Note: Although Russia begins the game with
two capital regions, only Moscow counts as a
capital in the Basic Rules.
■For Every 10 Regions Owned by the Player (round
down; capital regions can be counted as one of
these regions in addition to drawing a card on their
own): 1 Card
Example: The French player wins a major battle during
his turn, owns Paris and Madrid, and owns 12 regions
total. He therefore draws 4 cards that turn: One for the
victorious battle, two for the capital regions, and one for
owning 12 regions (if he only owned 9 regions, he would
get no cards for regions).
Playing Cards
Cards may be played (“cashed in”) in various 
combinations to gain pieces. When doing this, the player
declares his “Combinations”, shows his cards, and 
collects his new pieces. The cards that are played are
then returned to the deck and the deck is re-shuffled.
The combinations and their values are:
■REGIMENT: 2 of the same type (any color):
2 Infantry Cards = 1 Infantry Piece
2 Cavalry Cards = 1 Cavalry Piece
2 Artillery Cards = 1 Artillery Piece
2 Leader Cards = 1 Leader Piece
■BRIGADE: 3 of the same type (any color):
3 Infantry Cards = 3 Infantry Pieces
3 Cavalry Cards = 2 Cavalry Pieces
3 Artillery Cards = 2 Artillery Pieces
3 Leader Cards = 2 Leader Pieces
■DIVISION: 4 of the same type (any color):
4 Infantry Cards = 6 Infantry Pieces
4 Cavalry Cards = 4 Cavalry Pieces
4 Artillery Cards = 3 Artillery Pieces
4 Leader Cards = 3 Leader Pieces
■CORPS: One of each type (Inf, Cav, Art, Leader)(any
color): 1 Infantry, AND 1 Cavalry, AND 1 Artillery,
AND 1 Leader
ALSO: 
■For each card that has a symbol in that player’s
national color, the player gets an additional piece of
the type on that card. (EXAMPLE: The French 
player turns in a combination of one of each type of
symbols [called a “Corps”], and one of the cards has
a blue triangle [Cavalry]. He not only gets one of
each type of piece, but also an additional 
cavalry piece.)
■The Napoleon symbol is a “Wild Card” and may be
used as any of the four symbols to complete a 
combination. The player may not choose a color
for the Napoleon card to gain an extra piece.
■Some cards have no symbol or artwork on them.
These are worth nothing and may be placed back in
the deck or traded to other players (see trading
cards below). 

Trading Cards
At any time during a player’s turn, he may offer to trade
cards with any other player. They may trade any number
of cards. (Trades do not have to be equal.) The players
trading cards may not show each other the value of their
cards before or during the trade. The truth of a player’s
statements about what cards he is trading will only be
determined after the trade has occurred.
Production Phase
After a player has drawn any cards that he is entitled to,
he may play any combinations that will allow him to
“cash them in” for new pieces (see “Cards”). These new
pieces are then immediately placed in any region in that
player-nation’s homeland that is not occupied by enemy
armies. If all homeland regions are occupied by enemy
pieces, the player may not build new pieces for that
nation on that turn. 
Tactical Battles
Whenever two enemy armies occupy the same region, a
tactical battle occurs. The player that moved his pieces
into the region where the battle occurs is the “attacker”,
and the player whose pieces were already there is the
“defender” for that battle. “Major Battles” are when both
sides have 6 pieces or more (not including leaders). If
either player has 5 or fewer pieces, then the battle is 
considered a “Skirmish”. Major battles and skirmishes are
played the same way in the Basic Rules. However, the
player that wins a major battle will get to draw a card
(see “Cards”).
Setting up the Battle
At the beginning of the battle, a divider is placed
between the two players (the game box or chart card
works well for this). Both players then line up their
pieces into two “Ranks”. The players must place at least
one non-leader piece in the front rank at the start of the
battle, but are not required to place any pieces in the 
rear rank.
The Sequence of Battle
When both players are ready to begin the battle, the
divider is removed. The sequence of battle is as follows:
MOVE: Defender may move any or all pieces
FIRE: Defender “fires” any or all pieces that may fire
RALLY: Defender’s Leaders may attempt to “Rally” 
eliminated pieces from this battle (if there are any)
MOVE: Attacker may move any or all pieces
FIRE: Attacker “fires” any or all pieces that may fire 
RALLY: Attacker’s Leaders may attempt to “Rally” 
eliminated pieces from this battle (if there are any)
This sequence is repeated until one side wins the battle
and the loser retreats.
Moving
During a player’s Battle Move Phase, he may move any
pieces from the front rank to the rear rank and vice versa.
There are no limitations on how many or which pieces
may be moved except that there must be at least one
non-leader piece in the front rank at all times to avoid 
losing the battle (see “Ending the Battle” below).
Firing
During a player’s fire phase, each piece that is in the 
front rank must “Fire” at the enemy pieces that are in the
enemy’s front rank. When firing, the player rolls a certain
amount of dice for each piece (1 for Infantry, 3 for
Cavalry, 3 for Leaders, and 4 for Artillery). For each “6”
that is rolled, a “Hit” is scored and an enemy piece from
the enemy’s front rank is eliminated. Any piece that is in
the enemy’s front rank may be chosen by the firing player
to be eliminated (except for leaders). During the battle,
only pieces that are in the enemy’s front rank may be
fired at.

Artillery Fire
The exception to the front rank firing rule is that artillery
pieces may fire from the Rear Rank. When artillery
pieces fire from the rear rank, they roll 2 dice (as
opposed to the 4 dice that they roll when firing from 
the front rank).
Leader pieces that are in the front rank may fire. When
they are firing from the front rank, they get 3 dice. When
they are in the rear rank, they may not fire, but they may
“Rally” (see below).
Leaders may not be eliminated in battle, but may be
eliminated in pursuit after a battle (see below).
Eliminating Pieces and Rallying
Pieces that are eliminated are placed next to the battle,
because they may be “Rallied” and brought back into the
battle. Leaders that are in the rear rank (only) may
attempt to rally troops that have been eliminated from
that battle. During each Rally Phase, each leader that is
in the rear rank rolls two dice. For each “5” or “6” that is
rolled, one piece that was eliminated is “rallied” and
placed in the rear rank. Rallied pieces are chosen by the
rallying player.
Ending the battle and Pursuit
As soon as a player has no armies (non-leader pieces)
remaining in his front rank, he loses the battle. The other
player (the winner) then gets one additional fire phase
called “Pursuit”. During pursuit, the winner fires all of his
pieces normally (using the same dice as he would during
the battle), except now he may target and eliminate any
enemy pieces (including leaders and pieces in the
enemy’s rear rank.)
A player may voluntarily lose a battle during his Move
Phase by moving all of his pieces out of the front rank. 
Retreating from Battles
After Pursuit fire, all of the loser’s surviving pieces must
“Retreat” from the region where the battle took place.
The winner’s surviving pieces remain in the region where
the battle occurred.
Where to Retreat
The defending player may retreat his surviving pieces to
any region adjacent to the region where the battle
occurred, except:
■A region containing any enemy armies
■A region from which any attacking armies entered
the battle
The attacking player may only retreat to any adjacent
region(s) from which his armies entered the battle.
Note: A player may not retreat his pieces amphibiously.

Setup
The French player moves pieces from Holland into Hanover
where the British player already has pieces. The French player
also moves one Cavalry piece from Holland, through Westphalia,
and into Hanover to join the battle. 
Total French forces are: 6 Infantry, 3 Cavalry, 
Total British forces are: 4 Infantry, 2 Cavalry, 
The French player places all 6 Infantry and the Leader 
in the Front Rank, and the rest in the Rear Rank
The British player places all of his forces in the front rank 
hoping to overwhelm the French army quickly.
British
Rear Rank
British
Front Rank
French
Front Rank
French
Rear Rank
Example of a Tactical Battle
Great Britain

BRITISH TURN 1
Defender (British) Move Phase
The British player does not move any of his pieces.
Defender (British) Fire Phase
The British player rolls 21 dice (BREAK DOWN: Infantry = 
4 pieces x 1 die, Cavalry = 2 pieces x 3 dice, Artillery = 2 pieces
x 4 dice [front rank], Leader = 1 piece x 3 dice [front rank]). The
British player rolls five “6’s” and almost wins the battle outright. 
5 French Infantry pieces are eliminated.
Defender (British) Rally Phase
The British player has no eliminated pieces. Neither does he
have a Leader in the rear rank. Therefore he passes this phase.
FRENCH TURN 1
Attacker (French) Move Phase
The French Player moves his 3 Cavalry Pieces into the front rank
and his Leader piece into the rear rank.
Attacker (French) Fire Phase
The French Player rolls 14 dice (BREAKOUT: Infantry = 1x1,
Cavalry = 3x3, Artillery = 2x2 [rear rank], Leader 0 [rear rank]).
The French player rolls four “6’s”, and chooses to eliminate 2
Cavalry and 2 Artillery!
Attacker (French) Rally Phase
The French player’s Leader rolls two dice and gets a “1” and 
a “3”, rallying no pieces.
BATTLE TURN 1

BRITISH TURN 2
The British player moves his leader to the rear rank.
The British player rolls 4 dice (one for each Infantry piece).
Unfortunately for him, he gets no “6’s” and therefore no hits.
The British player rolls two dice and gets a “6” and a “1”. He
chooses to rally one artillery piece and places it in the rear rank.
FRENCH TURN 2
The French player does not move any of his pieces.
The French player rolls 14 dice and gets no “6’s”!
The French player rolls two dice and gets a “4” and a “3”. 
No pieces are rallied.
BATTLE TURN 2

BRITISH TURN 3
The British Player moves his artillery into the front rank.
The British player rolls 8 dice and gets one “6”. He chooses to
eliminate a French Cavalry piece.
The British player rolls a “4” and a “5”, thereby rallying one piece.
He chooses to rally an Artillery piece and places it in the 
rear rank.
FRENCH TURN 3
The French player moves his artillery into the front rank.
The French player rolls 15 dice (Infantry = 1x1, Cavalry = 2x3,
Artillery = 2x4) and gets three “6’s”. The French player chooses
to eliminate one Artillery and two Infantry pieces.
The French player rolls a “3” and a “1” and still can’t seem to rally
any troops back into the battle.
BATTLE TURN 3

BRITISH TURN 4
The British player moves his artillery piece into the front rank.
The British player rolls six dice and gets one “6”. He chooses 
to eliminate a French Artillery piece.
The British player rolls a “2” and a “1” and rallies no pieces.
FRENCH TURN 4
The French player decides to go for broke and moves his Leader
piece into the front rank.
The French player rolls 14 dice and gets no “6’s”!!
The French player cannot attempt a rally because he has 
no leader pieces in the rear rank.
BATTLE TURN 4

BRITISH TURN 5
The British player moves his Leader piece into the front rank.
The British player rolls 9 dice and gets two “6’s”. He chooses 
to eliminate a French Artillery and a French Cavalry piece.
The British player has no Leaders in the rear rank.
FRENCH TURN 5
No Movement. 
The French player rolls 7 dice and gets two “6’s”. The French
player chooses to eliminate an Artillery and an Infantry piece.
None.
BATTLE TURN 5

Defender Movement Phase
The British player realizes that he probably will not win the 
battle. He therefore chooses to Retreat.
Winner (French) Pursuit Fire
The French Player rolls 7 dice and gets three (!!!) “6’s”. The two
remaining British pieces are eliminated.
Retreat
There are no surviving British pieces to retreat, but if there were,
they could retreat to Denmark, Mecklenburg, or Berlin. They
could not retreat to Holland or Westphalia because French pieces
had entered the battle from there.
Optional Leader Rule
When a leader piece is in the front rank, an additional attack die
is added to every piece that can fire. More than one leader in
the front rank has no additional effect. When using this rule,
leader pieces do not get any attack dice when they are in the
front rank.
BATTLE TURN 6
This is the end of the Basic Rules
You now know enough to play the Basic Rules. 
Ottoman Empire

The Standard Rules are somewhat different from the
Basic Rules. They are more detailed and have more 
flavor of the Napoleonic period. The differences include:
■A more detailed Tactical Battle system
■A different sequence of play
■New unit types (Elite Infantry, Militia, Irregular
Cavalry, and Heavy Cavalry)
■Much more detailed setups (called “scenarios”)
which are listed at the back of this manual
■Different production and unit purchase system
■More detailed Diplomatic & Political system
Definitions
■Unit: Any plastic “piece” that represents a military
force (Infantry, Artillery, Cavalry, or Leader)
■Region: An area of land enclosed by a single 
border and/or coastline. These are used to regulate
ownership, movement, and production.
■Sea Area: An area of water enclosed by coastline
and aqua borders. These are used to regulate
naval and amphibious movement.
■Army: Refers to any military land unit of substantial
size. Includes all types of Infantry, Cavalry, and
Artillery, but not Leader units. These may also be
referred to as “troops”. It can also be used to refer
to a group of units and is sometimes represented
by a flagbearer piece.
■Major Nation: France, Great Britain, Prussia, Russia,
Ottoman Empire, Austria, and Spain are the seven
major nations in the game. They may either be
controlled by a player or neutral.
■Homeland: The regions that make up a Major
Nation. A nation’s homeland is outlined in that
nation’s color. (France: Blue, Great Britain: Red;
Prussia: Purple; Russia: Green; Ottoman: Tan;
Austria: Gray; Spain: Yellow)
■Player Nation: The major nation controlled by a
player at the beginning of the game. 
■Neutral Major Nations: Any major nation not 
controlled by a player at the beginning of the game,
is considered a “Neutral Major Nation”. 
■Minor Nation: Any region that is not a part of a
major nation’s homeland. Also called 
non-homeland regions.
■Ownership: Which nation “Owns” a region.
Ownership may only change as a result of a
“Political Action”. Ownership is designated by 
placing a Control Marker on the region (the owning
nation’s flag symbol). A nation’s homeland regions
do not need control markers unless they are owned
by another nation.
■Occupation: When a nation has military units
(armies) on the region, they are “occupying” it.
Although this does not necessarily mean that they
own it, it can prevent the owning player from getting
production points for it. 

Sequence of Play
Each player takes his turn moving any or all of his pieces
and fighting any battles that result. After all players have
taken their turn, the date marker is moved ahead one
month (on the “Tracking Card”) and the next round of turns
begins. After every three rounds, (after the March, June,
September, and December rounds), a Production Round
occurs (see Production below).
1. PLAYER MOVEMENT TURNS (One Month)
2. PLAYER MOVEMENT TURNS (One Month)
3. PLAYER MOVEMENT TURNS (One Month)
4. PLAYER PRODUCTION TURNS
The game ends after the last turn is played (A-Historical)
or all the enemy nations are defeated (Historical).
Turn Order
Each scenario will specify which nation will go first. In
each Movement Round (and Production Round), after the
starting nation, each nation will then take its turn going
clockwise around the board. Starting with France, this is:
France, Great Britain, Prussia, Russia, Ottoman, Austria,
and Spain.
How to Setup and Play (Scenarios)
There are ten scenarios at the back of this manual that
allow the players to recreate the initial political situation
and starting positions of the armed forces at that time.
Each scenario may be played as a “Historical” game, or
an “A-Historical” game. 
How to Win (Victory Conditions)
There are two ways to play Napoleon in Europe:
Historical and A-Historical.
Historical: Historical games allow the players to recreate
the actual campaigns fought during the Napoleonic era.
Based on the players’ decisions and the results of those
decisions, the game will diverge from actual history.
Historical games are two sided affairs: The French
Alliance vs. the Anti-French Alliance. Players win 
historical games by simply defeating the enemy nations.
If France is defeated (forced to “sue for peace”), the 
Anti-French alliance player(s) win the game, and if all
nations in the Anti-French Alliance are defeated (sue for
peace), The French player(s) win. 
A-Historical: A-Historical games allow players to attempt
to dominate Europe with their nation. They are 
attempting to improve the position of their nation rather
than just win a war. A-Historical games are especially fun
for multi-player games with 4 - 7 players. Unlike Historical
games, where players either win or lose, there are 
various levels of victory for each player depending on
how strong his nation is at the end of the game. After 
the last turn is played, each player’s Victory Level is 
determined. The possible victory levels are: 
1) Total Victory (Very Rare; This player is an especially 
gifted warrior-king. Their nation is destined to rule 
the world.)
Own more regions than the next two largest
nations combined; AND
Own more regions than any other single
nation; AND

2) Major Victory (This player has placed his nation 
into a dominant position in Europe. They will have
an advantage in the next war.)
Own more regions than any other nation, AND
No other nation owns more than 8 non-home-
land regions; AND
3) Minor Victory (These players have ruled well. Their
nation is still an important player on the world stage.)
Own the second or third most regions, AND
4) Survival (This nation has not improved it’s position
much, if at all. It is still a contender, but will have to
find powerful allies for the next war.)
5) Defeat (This nation is still alive, but has been
reduced in strength. It will probably fade into the 
status of a minor power.)
Retain ownership of at least one of their own 
homeland regions, but do not own them all.
6) Extinction (This nation exists no longer. It has been
tossed upon the scrap heap of history.)
All homeland regions are owned by other
nations; Completely eliminated from the game.
Great Britain has different victory conditions from the 
rest of the nations to reflect their role as a proponent of
“Balance of Power”. Britain had an extensive colonial
empire outside of Europe and an extremely prosperous
economy. Their interest was vested in keeping any one
nation from dominating Europe and thereby threatening
their security and prosperity. They also needed to retain
control of the seas to prevent invasion of Britain and the
security of their lines of communication with their
colonies. 
Victory for More than one Nation
When a player gains control of a second (or third) major
nation through Diplomatic Overture (see Political Actions
below) when playing an A-Historical game, he is then
responsible for the victory condition of that nation as
well. Even if he later loses control of that nation, he is
responsible for its victory condition at the end of the
game. A player who achieves a Major or Total Victory for
his starting nation, but Defeat or Extinction for a nation
that he took control of later has a “tainted” victory. This is
not as good as a player who can achieve a “pure” victory
for his starting nation by winning without controlling a
second (or third) nation, or by allowing the second nation
to finish with at least Survival. The ultimate victory would
be for a player to have his starting nation gain a Total
Victory and his second nation gain a Minor Victory.

Ending the Game
A-Historical games may end one of three ways:
TURNS: The players agree how many turns they will
play before they start. Suggested game lengths:
Short: 12 Turns
Medium: 18 Turns
Long: 24 Turns
Very Long: 36 – 60 Turns
Campaign: Game ends after the July 1815
Turn (or a turn agreed to by the players)
TIME LIMIT: The players agree that the game will
end at a certain time. This allows players to play for
the amount of time that they desire.
SUDDEN DEATH: This is really just a variant of the
above two methods. When the players reach a pre-
viously agreed turn or time, they roll two dice at the
end of each movement round (Month). If the roll is
equal or greater than the “End Number”, the game
ends. The end number starts at “12” and goes down
one point before each new roll, until the game ends.
EXAMPLE: The players agree that they will begin
the sudden death rolls on round 10. After the tenth
round (Month), they roll two dice and get a “6”. The
game keeps going. After the next round (11), the
End Number is 11, and the players roll a “9”. The
game keeps going. After the next round (12), the
end number is 10, and the players roll a “10”. The
game ends immediately. 
Pieces
The Standard Ruleset has different rules for the Basic
Pieces, and also introduces four new ones. Heavy
Cavalry, Irregular Cavalry, Militia and Elite Infantry. There
are four basic types of units: Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery,
and Leaders. Heavy Infantry and Militia are “types” of
Infantry, and Heavy Cavalry and Irregular Cavalry are
types of Cavalry. These new units act just like the basic
units of their type, with a couple of 
exceptions noted below in the unit description. 
Cost: 6
Special: Infantry can form “Square” when attacked 
by Cavalry, subtracting 3 from a charging Cavalry’s 
attack roll.
Infantry in the Napoleonic Era was mainly armed with a
smoothbore musket and bayonet. The musket was 
relatively slow to load and very inaccurate beyond 100
yards. Therefore, infantry would form into close 
formations, and march to within a hundred yards or 
closer before firing. These volleys made up for the 
inaccuracy with volume. After several volleys had been
fired, a bayonet charge could seal the deal by driving the
demoralized and disorganized enemy away. Another 
reason for staying in tight formations was to avoid being
ridden over by a mass of charging cavalry. 

Cavalry units are mounted on brown horses
Cost: 10
Attacks: Charge only
Special: When Charged by Infantry, Cavalry can “Avoid”
Special: When Charging Infantry, Cavalry can “halt” the
Charge if the Infantry forms Square
Cavalry in the Napoleonic Era was used in many ways.
Before a battle, it was used to scout the enemy army and
report the enemy’s positions to their General, while 
keeping the enemy cavalry from knowing too much about
their army by screening it. During a battle, cavalry would
launch charges at disordered enemy infantry and cavalry.
Thousands of galloping horsemen armed with swords or
lances could ride right over infantry that was too spread
out. The only defense was to form tight square 
formations with all bayonets aimed outward to 
discourage the horses from impaling themselves. After a
battle, cavalry was used to chase down the fleeing troops
of the defeated enemy to complete the total destruction of
the enemy army. Conversely, the cavalry of the defeated
army would engage the pursuing cavalry to prevent them
from riding down the slower artillery or foot soldiers.
Cost: 12
Attacks: Fire only
Special: May not be charged as long as there are any
friendly infantry or cavalry units in the same battle area.
Field artillery of the period was formed into “batteries”.
These were generally composed of four to eight cannons
and would be used to support individual units of infantry
or cavalry directly. However, as time wore on, it became
apparent that larger groupings of artillery on the battlefield,
called “Grand Batteries” could have a decisive effect by
essentially blasting a hole in the enemy’s line that the
infantry and cavalry could then charge into. 
Leader units are mounted on gray horses.
Cost: 12 
Attacks: None
Special: Leaders who are located in the Reserve Area
during a battle may use a Battle Action to “Rally” any
pieces that are in the Retreat Area. 
Special: Leaders add +1 to all charge combat for units of
their nation that are in the same Battle Area as the
Leader.
Special: Leader units may not be attacked directly.
However, they are eliminated if the opposing player rolls
an “11” or “12” (without modifiers) when firing or engaging
in charge combat with any unit in the same Battle Area
as the Leader.
Strong battlefield leaders, with experience, intelligence,
bravery, and charisma could affect a battle in many
ways: 
Rallying the troops: Even brave, well-trained troops
that had been fighting all day, and seen their friends
killed around them, would eventually decide that they
had done their part. A local defeat would be enough
to start them heading to the rear and safety. Only a
brave and charismatic leader whom they knew and
trusted could talk them into turning around, reforming,
and going back into battle. Often, the army with the
most “staying power” could win a close battle by just
refusing to leave the field. 

Tactical Skill: The ability to create a successful battle
strategy that outguessed the opponent and used the
strengths of one’s army while attacking the weakness-
es of the enemy army was an essential asset of an
effective General.
Execution: The ability of a command structure to take
the plan and choreograph thousands of men’s move-
ments and actions effectively in an age before radio
was even more important, and essential to 
victory. The side that made the fewest mistakes often
won. 
Coordination: Using the triad of Infantry, Cavalry,
and Artillery properly and in concert often determined 
victory on the battlefield. Each arm had its own
strengths and weakness, but used together in close
cooperation they were devastating. It took 
experienced troops managed by experienced 
leaders to do this well. 
Inspiration: Great Leaders were also able to 
intervene at the critical point on the battlefield and
inspire their men to victory. 
Elite Infantry
Cost: 9
Special: Acts like Infantry with the following exceptions:
Special: +1 on all Fire or Charge combat rolls, as well as
Attempts to Rally them. (Rally on 7+ instead of 8)
Special: When Elite Infantry lose charge combat, they are
eliminated only if they lose by 4 or more (harder to 
eliminate than infantry).
Special: Players must build 2 regular Infantry units for
each Elite Infantry unit produced (in the same production
phase when the Elite Infantry is built).
The tallest, strongest, and bravest men were often placed
together into units of Grenadiers or Imperial Guards. They
received the best training, pay, uniforms, and billets. In
return, their morale was expected to be high and their
fighting abilities the best. When a crisis arose on the field
of battle, it was to these men that a commander turned.
Rank upon rank of huge men, 7 feet tall in their towering
headgear would be sent forward to crush the enemy.
They usually did.
Militia units are represented by regular infantry units with a
“Militia” marker under them
Militia
Cost: 4
Moves: 1
Special: Acts like Infantry with the following exceptions:
Special: -1 on all Fire or Charge combat rolls, as well as
attempts to rally them (Rally on 9+ instead of 8)
Special: When “hit” by Fire they are eliminated only 66%
of the time (1, 2, 3, or 4)
Special: Fail 50% of the time when they attempt to “form
square” against a Cavalry Charge
Special: Cannot be purchased except by Prussia after
1809, and the Ottoman Empire
Special: Cannot leave their homeland except for Prussia
after 1809 and the Ottoman Empire
Most nations of the era raised militia troops to defend the
homeland. These part-time citizen-soldiers were available

to be called out in case of invasion or other emergency,
but did not require the nation to pay, clothe, or house
them like regular soldiers. They did not get the training 
or experience of the regular army, and their battlefield 
performance would reflect this. They were, however,
cheap and could stop a musket ball as well as a 
real soldier.
Irregular Cavalry
Cost: 7
Attacks: Charge
Special: Acts like “Cavalry” with the following exceptions:
Special: -1 on all Charge combat rolls as well as attempts
to rally them. (Rally on 9+ instead of 8)
Special: Only the Russian or Ottoman player may ever
build these units
The Russian Cossacks and Ottoman Horsemen did not
have the extensive training that other “regular” European
cavalry had. They couldn’t move in formation or charge
as effectively on the battlefield, but they were expert
scouts, they were cheap, and they could turn an enemy
retreat into Hell on Earth.
Heavy Cavalry units are mounted on black horses.
Cost: 13
Attacks: Charge only
Special: Acts like Cavalry with the following exception:
Special: +1 on all Charge combat rolls
Heavy cavalry of Europe in the early 19th century were
used on the battlefield for shock effect and breakthroughs.
These big men were mounted on the largest, strongest
horses, and often armored with a steel breastplates and
helmets. Thousands of these massive weapons of steel
and muscle thundering down on a man, was enough to
panic even seasoned troops.
Naval Squadron
Cost: 15
Move: Unlimited sea areas
Control Marker
These markers are placed on regions to show which
nation “owns” that region (see Ownership of Regions
below). Regions may only change ownership as a result
of a Political Action (see below).
During a player’s Movement Turn, his Land Units (Infantry,
Cavalry, Artillery, and Leaders) may move the number of
regions equal to their “Movement Points”. Infantry and
Artillery units may move one region per turn, and Cavalry
and Leader units may move two regions per turn. Land
units may not move into the Sea Areas except when
using “Amphibious Movement” (see below). Land units
may only move into regions that are adjacent to (share a

common border with) the region where they are 
moving from. 
Units may move into Minor Nations that are not owned or
occupied by Major Nations.
Land units may not move into regions owned by another
nation or occupied by other land units that belong to
another nation with the following exceptions:
■The two nations are “allied” (see Alliance)
■The player has a “Right of Passage” from the player
whose units occupy the region (see Right of
Passage in Political Actions)
■The two nations are at war. 
Whenever land units move into a region with other land
units belonging to a nation with whom they are at war,
the units entering the region may not move any further
during that turn, and a tactical battle occurs (see Tactical
Battles below). 
Sea Movement
Players may move their nation’s naval squadrons during
their movement turn. Naval squadrons may move any
number of sea areas during one turn. However, if they
enter a sea area that contains naval squadrons belonging
to a nation with whom they are at war, a Naval Battle
may occur (see Naval Battles below). If the moving naval
squadrons attempt to avoid the enemy naval squadrons
and are successful (see Interception of Naval Squadrons
below), they may keep moving. 
If a Naval Battle occurs, the naval squadrons involved
may not move any further during that turn, except that
after the battle, they may move into any friendly ports
that are adjacent to the sea area in which the battle 
took place. All naval battles occur immediately 
upon interception.
Ports
Ports are represented by an anchor symbol. They are
special “sea areas”. Naval squadrons may move into
them as if they were normal sea areas. Naval squadrons
may only move into ports in regions owned by their
nation or an allied nation. Ports are adjacent to any sea
area that the anchor symbol touches. All newly built
naval squadrons must be placed in a port in the building
player’s homeland. If a player-nation has no homeland
ports, he may not build new naval squadrons. If a region
with a port is captured by enemy armies, any naval
squadrons in that port must be immediately moved into
an adjacent sea area.
Naval squadrons in a port may be attacked by enemy
naval squadrons that are in adjacent sea areas even
though the attackers may not “move” into the port. A
maximum of two enemy naval squadrons may attack a
single port in any one turn. The defending naval
squadrons get +2 to their naval battle roll.
Naval squadrons moving out of a port and into a sea
area that contains enemy naval squadrons are 
intercepted 66% of the time. (see Interception of Naval
Squadrons below)
Amphibious Movement
Players may move armies and leaders from any coastal
region with an anchor symbol (Port) to any other coastal
region on the board. To do this, a player declares which
land units are moving and traces a path through Sea
Areas from the region where the move begins to where
they land. The following rules apply:
The moving player must have his own or allied 
naval squadrons in a sea area adjacent to the 
DESTINATION region. These naval squadrons must
equal or exceed the number of armies being landed
(leader units do not count against the number of
naval squadrons; i.e. they move for “free”) 

If any sea areas along the path are occupied by
enemy naval squadrons, a roll to determine if the
“transports” (land units moving on the water) are
“Intercepted” must occur for each of these sea areas
that the transports pass through (see “Interception of
Transports” below).
If a player lands units amphibiously into an enemy
homeland region that is not “Uprising” (see “Uprising”
below), three (3) enemy Militia units appear in the
region where the landing takes place.
If a region that is being landed in contains enemy
units (including Militia as a result of #3 above), a 
battle is fought. The defending enemy units get an
additional +2 on all fire and charge combat rolls for
this entire battle. 
Interception
There are two types of Interception:
INTERCEPTION OF NAVAL SQUADRONS
When naval squadrons belonging to nations at war 
occupy the same sea area, a naval battle may occur. If
both sides want a battle, it occurs. If neither side wants
a battle, it does not occur. If one side wants a battle, and
the other does not, the moving player rolls to see if the
reluctant naval squadrons are “Intercepted” and forced
into a naval battle. The player rolls one die. If a “5” or “6”
is rolled, the fleeing naval squadrons are intercepted 
and a naval battle follows immediately (see “Naval 
Battle” below).
If the naval squadron(s) that are attempting to avoid battle
have just left a port and are attempting to avoid enemy
naval squadrons in a sea area adjacent to the port
(anchor symbol), then they will be intercepted on a “3”,
“4”, “5”, or “6” instead of the usual “5” or “6”. This also
applies if they are attempting to move through the
straights from The Mid-Atlantic to The Barbary Coast (or
vice versa), or from The Aegean Sea to The Black Sea (or
vice versa).
INTERCEPTION OF TRANSPORTS
When a player is amphibiously moving an army unit and
it is attempting to move through a sea area that contains
enemy naval squadrons, he must roll to see if they are
intercepted. The moving player rolls one die for each
unit. If the result is more than the Interception Rating
(see below), then the unit is safe and may continue 
moving. If the roll is equal to or lower than the
Interception Rating for that sea area, then it is 
intercepted and eliminated.
The Interception Rating is simply the total of enemy
naval squadrons in that sea area minus the number of
naval squadrons owned by the moving player and his
allies in that sea area. This total can never be less than
“1” if there is even one enemy naval squadron in a 
sea area.
Example: Great Britain and Austria are at war with France.
Great Britain attempts to move 3 units from Cornwall to
Illyria. They must pass through the Bay of Biscay Sea
Zone which contains three French and 3 British naval
squadrons. The difference is “0”, however the Interception
Rating cannot be lower than “1”. The British player rolls
three dice, and get 2,5,1. One unit has been attacked and
destroyed by the French navy. The surviving units 
continue on their way and land in Illyria.

National Special Rules
Some major nations have special advantages or 
disadvantages.
THE BRITISH FLEET
When at least half of the naval squadrons on one side of
a naval battle are British (red), that side gets +1 on the
naval battle roll. During this era, the British not only had
the largest fleet, but they also had the best trained and
most experienced crews and captains. When faced with 
relatively even odds, the British squadrons would almost
always triumph.
THE BRITISH ARMY
The British player may not build more than 2 new land
units (Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery, or Leaders) in any single
Production Turn. Because the British placed so much
importance on their fleet, it usually received the lion-share
of resources. This included things like men, money, and
armaments; All things that the British army needed and
had a difficult time getting. Consequently, the British army
grew very slowly throughout the period.
BRITISH PRODUCTION POINTS
The British player may give some or all of his production
points to other players. Because of their shortage of 
manpower for the army, their relative safety from invasion,
and their surfeit of money, the British tended to give
money and armaments to other nations to do their 
fighting for them. Mainland European powers were
happy to get British cash and equipment, but resented 
the British for it at the same time.
THE OTTOMAN GOVERNMENT
All regions owned by the Ottoman player (including
homeland) only generate 1 Production Point during 
the Production Phase instead of 2. The exception to this
is the capital region: Constantinople, which generates 2
PP’s. The Ottoman government and bureaucracy was
medieval in organization, structure, and outlook, and 
riddled with inefficiency and corruption. Although these
traits existed in the more modern European great 
powers as well, they reached amazing depths within 
the Ottoman Empire.
THE OTTOMAN ARMY
The Ottoman Empire may only produce Militia, Irregular
Cavalry, and Leader units. They may not produce
artillery or other, more advanced types of Infantry or
Cavalry. While the Ottoman army attempted to keep pace
with their European neighbors, they steadily fell behind in
weapons technology as well as tactical and organization-
al innovations. Their armies resembled swirling masses
of insects rather than the ordered and disciplined ranks of
European armies. If an enemy army could weather the
first frantic rush, they could usually defeat the 
disorganized and disheartened mob of Ottoman warriors.
THE OTTOMAN NAVY
When at least half of the naval squadrons on one side of
a naval battle are Ottoman (Tan), that side gets -1 on the
naval battle roll. Similar to the Ottoman army, the
Ottoman navy had fallen behind their European 
counterparts in the quality of the weapon systems 
and the innovations of their use in battle.
Naval Battles
When a naval battle occurs, each side rolls two dice and
adds the total of the naval squadrons that they and their
allies have in that sea area. The two sides then compare
their two totals. The side with the smaller total loses the
Naval Battle and some naval squadrons based on the 
difference between the two totals.
Difference
Loss
No Loss
1 or 2
Lose 1 Squadron
3 or 4
Lose 2 Squadrons
5 or more
Lose 3 Squadrons
OTHER BONUSES IN NAVAL BATTLES
Ports: As stated above, if a battle occurs in a port, the
defender adds “2” to his naval battle roll.
The British Navy: As stated above, when at least half of
the naval squadrons on one side of a naval battle are
British (red), that side adds “1” their naval battle roll.

Cards
Cards are not used in the Standard rules.
Ownership of Regions
Major Nations can own regions in addition to their 
homeland regions. Their ownership is represented by
placing a “Control Marker” on the regions that they own.
Ownership can only change hands as a result of a
Political Action (see below). Even if an enemy nation’s
units “occupy” a region (by having armies there), they do
not own it until Ownership (and the control marker) is
changed as a result of a Political Action.
A player’s “Homeland” regions do not need a control
marker on them to show that they belong to that nation.
They always belong to that nation unless an enemy 
player nation has a “Control Marker” on it signifying 
their ownership. 
Production
Production occurs after every three turns (months), after
the March, June, September, and December Turns. If a
scenario starts in the middle of a 3 month period (in
February for example), the first Production Round may
come sooner than 3 turns.
Production Points
During each production round, each player takes a turn
adding up his total Production Points based on how
many regions he “Owns” (This is not necessarily the
same as those that he occupies with troops – see
Ownership above). Regions that are occupied by enemy
armies or in “Uprising” (see “Uprising” Political Action
below) are not counted toward a nation’s total production
points for that Production Turn. 
Every Region is worth 2 Production Points, and Capital
Regions are each worth unique amounts of PP’s depend-
ing on the Capital Region (Listed Below). The exception
to this is that all regions in North Africa (between Morocco
and Egypt), and those regions owned by the Ottoman
Empire are worth only 1 Production Point.
Values of Capital Regions:
Paris:
London:
Berlin:
St. Petersburg:
Moscow:
Constantinople:
Vienna:
Madrid:
These values are not meant to reflect the actual economic
value of the city itself, but instead to balance the total 
economic and military potential of their nation vis-à-vis the
other Major nations in Europe.
Production points may be spent or saved at the player’s
discretion (Players may keep track of their PP’s on the
“Tracking Card” with an ownership marker). However,
only the British player may give PP’s to other players.
Purchasing
After Production Points are calculated, the players then
take turns spending their production points to buy new
pieces. The cost of the pieces available in the Standard
Rules are:
Militia 
Elite Infantry 
Irregular Cavalry 
Naval Squadrons
Political Action Points
Placing
A player’s newly produced units may be placed in any of
that player-nation’s homeland regions that are not owned
by another nation, occupied by enemy armies, or in
Uprising. If a nation has no homeland regions that fit that
description, it may not build new units.
Newly built naval squadrons must be placed in that
nation’s homeland ports that fit the above description.

Political Actions and Diplomacy
Politics and Diplomacy are key tools in Napoleon in
Europe. During the period, the seven major nations vied
with one another to dominate the continent of Europe.
Although France eventually became the dominant player,
there was quite a bit of jockeying between the other 
powers as well. In Napoleon in Europe, players can 
conduct diplomacy (open or in secret) between 
themselves to accomplish their goals. They can then
execute their political policies through a menu of
“Political Actions”. Each action costs varying amounts
of “Political Action Points” (PAP’s) to execute.
Diplomatic Track
The diplomatic track allows players to keep track of the
relationships between the major nations in the game.
Unless stated in the scenario setup, all nations begin with
a “Neutral” relationship. As a result of Diplomatic
Overtures, Declarations of War and Peace (Political
Actions), the status of these relationships can change.
When the change occurs, players should mark the new
status by placing a “Control Marker” with the appropriate
nation’s flag in the appropriate box on the Diplomatic
Track.
Alliances
Alliances may be formed to allow players to co-operate
against another nation or nations. Alliances may only 
be formed as a result of a “Diplomatic Overture” 
Political Action. 
Alliances have the following benefits and rules:
Allied nations may move their pieces at the same
time (in either player’s turn but not both [their
choice]), and may occupy the same regions
(although only one nation may own a region).
Allies may fight battles together as if they were one
nation. The two (or more) allied players still move
and roll for their own units.
Naval squadrons may transport allied units of other
nations.
4) Allies may move into each other’s ports.
A nation is never obligated to go to war with the 
enemies of his ally. The decision of whether to go 
to war with an ally’s enemy is always available to a
player, but not required. Failing to declare war on an
ally’s enemy does not automatically end the allince
Player Nations
At the beginning of each scenario, each player chooses 
a major nation or nations to control. These nations are
“Player-Nations”. Victory in the game is determined by
the performance of a player’s nation or nations.
Neutral Major Nations 
Any major nation not controlled by a player at the 
beginning of the game, is considered a “Neutral Major
Nation”. Neutral Major Nations are “inactive” (do not
receive PP’s or new units, and cannot move their units)
until they either join an alliance or are attacked. Neutral
Major Nations may join a player’s alliance as a result of a
successful “Diplomatic Overture” Political Action. That
player will then “Control” that Neutral Major Nation until
the Neutral Major Nation is either defeated (sues for
peace) or is lured out of the alliance by another player’s
Diplomatic Overture. Neutral Major Nations “controlled”
by a Player-Nation become active as long as they are
controlled: Their units may be moved and they may
receive production and build new forces, though they 
do not ever receive Political Action Points. 
If a player-nation declares war on a neutral major nation,
one of the other players in the game immediately takes
control of the neutral major nation. Who gains control is
determined as follows: 
■If a player declares war on a Neutral Major Nation
and any player-nations are currently at war with the
aggressor, the Neutral Major Nation joins the alliance
against the aggressor nation. The members of the
alliance randomly determine which of them takes
control of the Neutral Major Nation.
■If there are no player-nations currently at war with
the aggressor nation, any may immediately declare

war. If more than one do so, they randomly 
determine which of them controls the neutral 
major nation. 
■If no player nations wish to declare war on the
aggressor nation, the player-nation with the closest
Capital Region takes control of the Neutral Major
Nation. However, they are not allied with the
Neutral Minor Nation and their control ends as soon
as the war ends. 
Political Action Points
Political Action Points (PAP’s) are a way of tracking
Political “Capital” or Influence. Players accumulate
Political Action Points over time, or for winning battles,
winning wars, and through the investment of hard cash
(trade grants, bribes, etc.). Player-Nations may spend this
political capital to perform various Political Actions (see
below). Political Action Points are represented in the
game by counters with that Nation’s flag on them 
(Control Markers).
When a player earns a PAP, he takes a Control Marker
with his nation’s flag on it to represent the point (like 
currency). He may hold his PAP’s for as long as he
desires. He may spend them at any time. When they
are spent, the markers are returned to the box.
Political Action Points are earned as follows:
■Before each Production Phase, each Player-Nation
gets (1)
■When a Player-Nation wins a major battle (1)
■When a Player-Nation wins a war (2 or 1)
When an enemy nation is defeated. The first
nation at war with the defeated nation gets 2
Political Action Points. The second nation at
war with the defeated nation gets 1 PAP. All
others get 0 PAP’s.
■PAP’s may be purchased during a player’s
Production Turn for 10 PP’s
Political Actions
Players may choose from the following menu of Political
Actions. These actions may be performed at any time,
provided that the player has enough Political Action
Points to pay the cost.
■Diplomatic Overture
Cost = 2 PAP’s
Diplomatic Overture is essentially an attempt to
change the diplomatic status of that nation up or
down on the “Diplomatic Chart”. For Example: If 
the target nation is Neutral toward your nation, a
successful Diplomatic Overture would make them
“Allied”. If they were allied to another nation, a 
successful Diplomatic Initiative would make them
“Neutral”. There are three different types of
Diplomatic Overtures depending on whom they 
are targeting:
Player Nation (One of the seven Major Nations
that was also a player’s starting nation): A
Diplomatic Overture to another Player-Nation 
is very simple. The player who wants to
improve their diplomatic status, pays 2 PAP’s
and announces the Overture, the target 
player-nation then responds with agreement 
or refusal. Either way, the PAP’s are spent.
Players move the “control Marker” on the 
diplomatic track if the offer was accepted. 
Neutral Minor Nation (A region that is not
owned by any major nation): A Diplomatic
Overture to a Minor Nation is an attempt to
draw them into the player-nation’s alliance.
The effect of this is to give the player-nation
control of the minor nation (ownership) and its
forces. When attempting this, a player must
pay 2 PAP’s and roll two dice. If he rolls a 9 or
higher (8 or higher if he has a Leader unit in
the Minor Nation), the attempt is successful
and he gains control of that region (placing a
control marker on it). He also gains free

military units (representing the army of the
minor nation) that are placed in the minor
nation that has joined his “sphere of influence”.
The forces that join are determined randomly:
1-4 infantry (roll one die and ignore a 5 or a 6),
1-2 cavalry, and 0-1 artillery units (1,2,3 mean 0
and 4,5,6 mean 1). He may use his own units
to represent these (The French player can use
light blue pieces to represent ‘allied forces’ in
the historical games).
Minor nations that join a major nation in this
way are treated as part of the major nation’s
empire. A failed attempt has no negative
effects except the loss of the 2 PAP’s.
Neutral Major Nation (One of the seven Major
Nations that was not a player’s starting nation):
A Diplomatic Overture aimed at a Neural Major
Nation is basically an attempt to change 
“control” of that nation and its forces. If no
other nation controls the Neutral Major Nation,
a successful attempt gives the successful 
player control of the nation until another player-
nation makes another successful attempt, 
thus returning the Neutral Major Nation to 
“uncontrolled” status, or the Neutral Major
Nation is defeated in a war, resulting in their
return to “uncontrolled” status.
When an active Neutral Major Nation becomes
“uncontrolled”, any wars that it was fighting
end immediately. When a player attempts a
Diplomatic Overture to a Neutral Major Nation,
he pays 2 PAP’s and rolls two dice. If the
result is equal to or less than the “Diplomatic
Rating” (see below) between those two
nations, the attempt 
succeeded and the player nation now controls
the Neutral Major Nation (Note this by showing
an alliance between the two nations on the
Diplomatic Track). If the attempt fails, nothing
happens other than the loss of the PAP’s paid
for the attempt. 
DIPLOMATIC RATINGS
Diplomatic Ratings are found in the “Nations
Chart” in each scenario description in the back
of the manual. (The player-nation making the
attempt appears on the left side of the chart
and the target Neutral Major Nation is listed on
the top.)
■Annex Region
Cost = Various (see below)
Annexing regions is the primary way in which 
control of regions changes hands. After a nation
annexes a region, that nation’s “Control Marker” with
its flag on it is placed in the region to show owner-
ship. If there was a control marker already there, it
is removed. There are three forms of annexation.
Region belonging to a Major Nation 
(Non-Homeland):Cost = 1 PAP
Regions may only be taken from a Major
Nation after it has just lost a war (sued for
peace). As soon as any war ends, a
“Congress” occurs to determine how many
regions the loser loses, and which of the 
victors gets them. (see Sue for Peace below)
Region belonging to a Major Nation
(Homeland): Cost = 2 PAP’s
This is the same as above, except that each
homeland region costs the victors 2 PAP’s to
annex. A Major Nation’s Capital Region cannot
be annexed until all other homeland regions of
that nation have been annexed first. 
Neutral Minor Nation: Cost = 1 PAP
Player-Nations may declare that they are
annexing any Minor Nation at any time during
their turn as long as they have at least one 
military unit in the region being annexed. After
this announcement has been made, that player
rolls to determine whether the Minor Nation
resists or allows itself to be absorbed. One 

die is rolled. If a “5” or higher is rolled (with the
modifiers below added), the attempt was 
successful, and no resistance occurred.
However, if the modified result was less than
“5”, then the Minor Nation defends itself with its
military units.
MINOR NATION MILITARY UNITS (roll randomly)
1 to 4 Infantry, 1 to 2 Cavalry, 
and 0 to 1 Artillery
MODIFIERS:
Add “1” to the roll if the annexing nation has 
4-6 military units in the Minor Nation.
Add “2” to the roll if the annexing nation has 
7 or more military units in the Minor Nation.
Add “1” to the roll if the Minor Nation is 
adjacent to any region that is already owned
by the annexing nation.
Subtract “1” from the roll if there are any Major
Nations at war with the annexing nation. Major
Nations may declare war on any annexing
nation immediately upon the announcement of
annexation.
If a Minor Nation resists, it will join a Player-
Nation that is at war with the aggressor nation
(if any) as if a successful Diplomatic Overture
to a Minor Nation had occurred (no cost in
PAP’s) (see above). If there is more than one
player-nation at war with the aggressor, roll
randomly to determine which of them gains
control of the Minor Nation. If no player-
nations are at war with the aggressor nation,
then use light blue pieces for the Minor Nation’s
armies, and remove them if they are victorious
in battle. If the military units of the Minor
Nation are defeated in the initial battle, the
annexing player-nation places a “Control
Marker” in the region.
■Sue for Peace
Cost = 2 PAP
Suing for peace means that the major nation has
lost the war that it is in. Major nations will sue for
peace due to one of three things:
The player controlling that nation decides to do
it to end a war. (Voluntary)
The nation loses a battle wherein it lost 6 or
more units AND it failed its “Commitment Rating”
roll (see below). (Involuntary)
Enemy troops entered the nation’s capital region
AND it failed its “Commitment Rating” roll (see
below). (Involuntary)
After a nation sues for peace, all nations that were
at war with it are now neutral (the players should
immediately change the status on the diplomatic
track). The loser must lose 2 PAP’s, and the 
winners gain PAP’s: (2 for the first nation to declare
war on the loser, 1 for the second nation, and none
for other nations who declared war thereafter). After
the end of the war none of the winning nations may
declare war on the losing nation for 12 turns (1
year), although the loser can declare war on any of
them.
Immediately after the war ends, the winning nations
hold a “Congress” to divide the spoils. Each nation
takes turns annexing one region belonging to the
loser. The first nation to declare war on the loser
chooses first, the second next, and so on until no
one wants or can afford any more (see Annex
Region above). The loser may, of course, negotiate
deals with the winners to influence them in their
decisions. 

■Cause Uprising
When this action is chosen, an “Uprising” occurs in
any non-homeland region chosen by the player per-
forming the political action. (Three traditionally rebel-
lious homeland regions may also be chosen:
Ireland, Vendee, and Don Basin). When this occurs,
an “Uprising” marker 
is placed on the chosen region. Until it is removed,
the owning player does not gain PP’s for this region.
If it is a homeland region, enemy forces may
amphibiously land there without penalty or the cre-
ation of defending militia as long as the uprising is
going on (see amphibious landings).
An uprising may be put down by the nation that
owns the region (and the counter removed), by the
movement of military units into the region. At the
end of every one of the owning nation’s turns that it
has military units in the region, the player may roll
to put down the uprising. He rolls two dice. If the
die roll is equal to or less than the number of mili-
tary units in the region, the uprising is put down. If
the roll is higher than the number of military units in
the region, then the player loses one unit from the
troops in that region (his choice).
■Liberate Region
Cost =1/2 PAP (2 for 1)
After a player-nation has defeated another nation in
war, he may choose to “Liberate” regions owned by
the defeated nation. The victorious player names
the two regions during his turn of the “Congress”
(see Sue for Peace) and pays 1/2 PAP per region.
The “Control Markers” are then removed from these
regions, and they return to their original ownership:
Minor Nations become independent again, and
homeland regions return to the control of the home-
land nation. 
■Break Alliance
A player-nation may end an alliance at any time for
the cost of 1 PAP. The nations’ control markers are
moved from alliance to neutral on the diplomatic
track. Any troops that share a region with the old
ally must be moved out immediately unless war is
declared or a “Right of Passage” is granted. If they
cannot move to a region that is not owned and/or
occupied by their former ally, they may be moved
immediately to their nation’s Capital Region if it is
not occupied by enemy troops. If both players
have troops in the same region at the end of the
turn that the Alliance was broken, and a “Right of
Passage” is not in force, battles will occur whether
they want them to, or not (although war will not
necessarily be declared unless one of them
declares it.)
■Right of Passage
Cost = 0 PAP
A player-nation may request the “Right of Passage”
any time and at no cost. If granted, the player’s
units may move through regions owned by the
granting nation, or occupied by its troops without a
battle resulting. When the right is rescinded, the
player’s units must move out of the other player’s
regions immediately. If both players have troops in
the same region at the end of the turn wherein the
Right of Passage was rescinded and there is no
alliance in place between the two nations, battles
will occur whether they want them to or not
(although war will not necessarily result unless one
of them declares it).
■Declare War
Player-nations may declare war on any other major-
nation in the game at any time. After the declara-
tion, the nations’ control markers are moved into
each other’s war box on the diplomatic track.
Players must place their control markers in the war
box in the order that they have declared war on a
nation: The first nation to declare war on that nation
places his marker at the top of the war box, and all
others place theirs below that one, in the order
which they declare war. The military units of the
two nations may then enter each other’s regions
and engage in battles. War between two nations
may only end if one of the nations sues for peace
or an Armistice is agreed to.

■Declare Armistice
Cost = 1 PAP each
Two player-nations who are at war may agree to
end the war without a winner. This costs them
each 1 PAP as they have both proved that they are
not strong enough to win the war. This political
action ends the war between them (and the control
markers should be moved to reflect this on the
diplomatic track), but it does not affect wars that
either of them may have with other nations. 
Commitment Ratings / Numerical
Each major nation has a Commitment Rating assigned to
it in each scenario. It may be found in the “Nations” 
section of the scenario description immediately after the
name of the nation and the letter “C”. 
A Commitment Rating is the ability of that nation to 
continue fighting (avoid “Suing for Peace”) after an enemy
has beaten them badly on the battlefield or captured their
Capital. If a major nation loses a battle wherein they lose
6 or more units, or an enemy unit occupies their capital
region, they must roll two dice. If the resulting roll is
higher than the nation’s “Commitment Rating”, then that
nation immediately loses the war and “Sues for Peace”
(see above).
Trading Assets
Players may trade regions and cards, but may not trade
Production Points or Political Action Points. (exception:
the British player may give Production Points to any 
other player)
Tactical Battles
When an army moves into a region occupied by a hostile
army, a tactical battle occurs. Tactical battles are fought
after all pieces have been moved for that player’s turn.
All movement must be completed before any battles are
fought, and no movement may occur after a battle is
fought (except Retreats – see below). Battles may be
fought in any order that the defending player(s) decides. 
The two armies are placed opposite each other on the
battle board, and a divider is placed between them so
that the players cannot see the deployment of their 
opponent’s pieces (the gamebox or Chart Card works
well for this). The players then “deploy” their respective
armies into “Battle Lines”. When their deployments are
complete, the divider is removed and the battle begins. 
BATTLE AREAS
The Tactical Battlefield (the battle board) is divided into
“Battle Areas” for purposes of movement and attacking.
Any number of pieces may occupy a Battle Area. 
DEPLOYMENT 
There are two sizes of tactical battles: 
Skirmishes are small battles (when either combatant
has five or fewer units, not counting leaders). 
Major Battles are large battles (when both armies
have 6 or more units, not counting leaders).
A player’s “Battle Line” is made up of the Battle Area(s)
between his “Reserve” Area and the “Middle” Areas on the
Tactical Battlefield (see diagrams below).
In a Skirmish, the “Battle Line” consists of one “Battle
Area” (the three battle areas of his battleline are treated as
one - see diagram), and the players set up their forces in
the single battle area and/or in the “Reserve Area”. Units
in the Reserve cannot fire, engage in Charge attacks, or
be attacked in any way as long as they remain there.
Units may move into or out of the reserve area like any
other battle area.

Player A’s Retreat Area
Player A’s Setup
Divider
Player B’s Setup
Player A’s Battle Area
Middle Area
Player B’s Battle Area
Player A’s Reserve Area
Player B’s Reserve Area
Player B’s Retreat Area
Skirmish: Battlefield
Major Battle: Battlefield
Player A’s Setup
Divider
Player B’s Setup
Battle Line
Battle Line
Player A’s Retreat Area
Right
Center
Left
Middle Flank
Right
Middle Center
Center
Middle Flank
Left
Player A’s Reserve Area
Player B’s Reserve Area
Player B’s Retreat Area
In a Major Battle, the Battle Line consists of three Battle Areas (Left, Center, and Right – see diagram),
and the players set up their forces in all three Battle Areas and/or in the Reserve.
In both cases, at least one unit must be placed in each battle area that makes up the Battle Line at the start
of the battle. After both sides have set up their armies, the divider is removed and the battle may begin.

Sequence of Battle/ Battle Phases
Battles are divided into four unique “Phases”. The
sequence of phases in each battle turn are:
1) Cavalry Phase: Cavalry units may Move or Charge
(each costs 1 “Battle Action” - see below). First the
attacker, then the defender may act, using any, all, or
none of their cavalry units.
2) Artillery Phase: Artillery units may Move or Fire (each
costs 1 Battle Action). First the attacker, then the
defender may act, using any, all, or none of their
artillery units.
3) Infantry Phase: Infantry units may Move, Charge,
Fire or Unsquare (each costs 1 Battle Action). First
the attacker, then the defender may act, using any,
all, or none of their infantry units.
4) Leader Phase: Leaders may Move or Rally (Rally
only if in the Reserve Area). First the attacker, then
the defender may act, using any, all, or none of their
leader pieces.
These phases are repeated until the battle ends (see
“Winning the Battle” below)
Battle Actions
Each piece has a certain number of “Battle Actions”:
Infantry and Artillery have 1; Cavalry and Leaders have 2.
These are essentially the number of things that an army
unit or Leader can do during its proper Battle Phase.
During the proper Battle Phase, a player may spend a
piece’s Battle Action(s) to Move, Fire, Charge, or Rally
(Artillery may not Charge, Cavalry may not Fire, and only
Leaders may Rally). If a piece has one battle action, it
may only choose one of its available options. If a piece
has two Battle Action Points, it may choose any two
options (or two of the same option).
Tactical Movement
If a player chooses to use a piece’s Battle Action to
move, he may move the piece from any Battle Area to
any adjacent Battle Area with the following exceptions:
1) When enemy units are in a Battle Area adjacent to
the friendly piece to be moved, it may not move into
a Battle Area that also has enemy units adjacent.
(i.e. Units may not move from an area adjacent to
the enemy to another area adjacent to the enemy).
This is similar to “Zone of Control” rules in many 
traditional wargames.
Units in the Retreat Area may not move until Rallied
(see “Leaders” below)
No diagonal movement is allowed.
Attacking
During their “Phase”, Units may use their Battle Action(s)
to “attack” an enemy unit in a Battle Area that is adjacent.
Attacks may be either “Fire” or “Charge” (see below).
Artillery may “Fire” at enemy units 2 areas away if there
are no units in the area between them. Attacks may only
be directed at enemy units directly in front of the 
attacking unit (not diagonal or sideways). 
For example: A British Infantry unit is in the Left Flank,
Middle Battle Area. It may Fire or Charge French units
directly in front of it in the French Right Flank area. It
may not fire or charge French units in the French Center,
or in the Center Middle (sideways).
Fire Attack
Fire attacks consist of rolling volleys of musket fire or
artillery fire directed at the enemy from a distance. This
is a safe method in the sense that the attacker cannot
lose, but it may not have any effect on the defender.
When declaring a fire attack, the attacker chooses a 
target, rolls two dice, adds any Fire Modifiers (see below),
and then compares the total to the “Fire Chart” below. 
If the total is equal to or greater than the number on the
chart for that type of unit, then a hit is scored. If a hit is
scored, roll one die to determine what happens to the
unit that was hit. If a 4-6 is rolled, the unit is placed in
the “Retreat Area” behind the owning player’s “Reserve
Area” (Units in the retreat area may be rallied later [see
rally below]). If a 1-3 is rolled, then the unit is eliminated
and removed from play (50%). Note: Elite Infantry are
only eliminated on a 1 or 2 (33%) and Militia are 
eliminated on a 1, 2, 3, or 4 (66%).

Fire Chart
*Artillery may fire 2 battle areas (not diagonally) as long
as there are no units between them and their target. The
first number in the chart above is the number to hit at a
range of one, and the second is the number to hit at a
range of two.
Fire Modifiers
There are certain advantages and disadvantages for cer-
tain unit types, or in particular situations. When these
occur, the firing player must add or subtract the following
to the dice roll before determining if the target is “hit”.
■Elite Infantry adds one to its 
dice roll when firing (+1)
■Light Infantry adds one to its dice roll when firing
(+1) Note: Light Infantry are advanced rules only
■Infantry unit types subtract one from their 
dice roll when firing while in “Square” (-1) (see
Square below) (Firing unit is in Square)
■Infantry unit types add one to their dice roll when 
firing at enemy infantry who are in “Square” (+1)
(Target is in Square)
■Artillery unit types add two to their dice roll when 
firing at enemy infantry who are in Square (+2)
(Target is in Square)
Charge Attack
A charge consists of Infantry or Cavalry charging into the
enemy position to engage in close combat (Artillery may
not charge). Charging is more decisive than firing, but is
more risky. After the moving player declares a charge
attack and picks the target unit, both players roll two
dice, add any modifiers (see chart below) and compare
the results. The player with the higher total wins. If he
wins by one or two, the loser moves his unit into the
“Retreat Area”. If he wins by 3 or more, then the losing
unit is destroyed and removed from play. 
Avoiding
If the defender is Cavalry (or Light Infantry when using
the advanced rules) and is being charged by Infantry, the
Cavalry unit may choose to avoid 
contact by retreating into reserve. This is called
“Avoiding” and gives the Cavalry units in the game the
ability to “screen” and Light Infantry units the ability to
skirmish without becoming seriously engaged. 
Artillery units may not be charged as long as there are
any Infantry or Cavalry units in the same Battle Area with
it. These other units are “covering” the Artillery unit.
During the Napoleonic era, artillery units that were left
unprotected were relatively easy prey. However, when
adequately covered by nearby infantry, it was very 
difficult for the enemy to come to grips with an artillery
unit which would just fall back a short distance while the
covering force engaged the enemy.
7/9*
6/8*
8/10*

Square Formation and Cancelling a Cavalry Charge
Whenever a Cavalry unit declares that it is charging an
Infantry unit, the Infantry unit may then declare that it is
“Squaring”. The player should show that the Infantry unit
is in Square formation by turning it sideways or back-
wards. The Cavalry unit may then decide to finish the
charge and roll its charge attack, or he may decide to
“Cancel” the charge. This cancelled charge still costs the
Cavalry unit one Battle Action as if it had charged, and
the Infantry unit is now in square and must use a Battle
Action during an infantry phase if it wants to “Unsquare”.
The effects of the Square are:
Cavalry attacking Infantry in Square get an 
additional –3 modifier (added to the usual +2 
for Cavalry charging Infantry)
Infantry firing at squared Infantry get a +1 
modifier to hit
3) Artillery firing at squared infantry get a +2 
modifier to hit
Infantry in Square formation get a –1 
modifier when firing
Infantry in Square must use a Battle Action 
to get out of Square formation during an Infantry
phase.
6)
Infantry units in Square formation may not 
move to another Battle Area or Charge while 
still in Square
On the Napoleonic Battlefield, the threat of Infantry
being overrun by enemy cavalry was very real. When
cavalry moved nearby and threatened to charge, the best
defense was to form into large square or rectangle three or
more ranks deep with bayonets pointed outward on all
sides. This prevented the horses from riding into the
ranks and trampling the poor foot soldiers. It also meant
that if the cavalry did charge, they couldn’t hurt the
infantry squares as much as the volleys fired from the
squares could hurt them. Therefore, the best tactic of the
day was to threaten a cavalry charge, driving the enemy
infantry into square. Then friendly artillery and infantry
working nearby could blast the helpless squares to pieces.
The enemy infantry in square could only return fire with a
quarter of its men and made a huge, compact target. If
the musket and canon fire destroyed the tight formation
and the men in the disintegrating square decided to run 
for it, they could be ridden down like prey. This is 
represented in the game by the +1 (and +2 for artillery) to
hit infantry in square, and the +1 Charge modifier for
“Combined Arms” (Infantry, Artillery, and Cavalry 
working together). 
The net –1 for cavalry charging infantry in square 
(+2 for Cavalry charging Infantry and –3 for cavalry 
charging infantry in square) is not lower because 
sometimes infantry were surprised and did not complete
the change of formation quickly enough and the charge
caught them in a disorganized state. Cavalry charges
against squared infantry also sometimes succeeded, 
especially if the cavalry were armed with lances, thus
allowing them to strike at the bayonet armed foot soldiers,
or the infantry was not numerous, resolute, or organized
enough to maintain a strong square. There are many 
examples of squares being “broken” in this way.

Charge Combat Chart (Modifiers for the Attacker)
* Defending Cavalry can withdraw to the reserve when
attacked by infantry to avoid melee, if it chooses to do so
** Artillery cannot be charged as long as there is at least
one Infantry or Cavalry unit in the same Battle Area with
the Artillery
Additional Charge Modifiers:
In addition to the modifier from the chart above, there are
other modifiers that may apply to particular situations.
When these occur, the player must add or subtract the
following to the dice roll before determining the winner of
the charge.
■One is added to the roll (+1) for units in a battle area
containing a leader unit (more than one leader in a
battle area does not give any additional combat
advantage)
■Combined Arms: One is added to the roll (+1) for
units in a battle area that contains at least one unit
of each type: Infantry, Cavalry, AND Artillery. This
advantage is lost as soon as the battle area does
not contain all three types.
■One is added to the roll (+1) for Elite Infantry and
■One is subtracted from the roll (-1) for Militia and
Irregular Cavalry (also Light Infantry – Advanced
Rules) 
■Three is subtracted from the roll (-3) when cavalry
type units charge infantry types that are in square
(see Square above)
Leaders and Rallying
Leader pieces have two special abilities: Firstly, when 
in a Battle Area, they add a +1 modifier to all charge 
combat involving their units that share the same battle
area. Secondly, leaders that are in the reserve area may
attempt to rally units that are in the retreat area. Leaders
may spend battle actions to rally retreating troops (one
battle action/ attempt). To attempt a rally, roll two dice for
each attempt. On a roll of “8” or higher the unit is rallied,
it is moved from the retreat area into the reserve area,
and may be moved during its next phase. Units in the
retreat area may not move out unless rallied by a leader
in reserve. NOTE: Elite Infantry may be rallied on a “7” or
higher, while Militia and Irregular Cavalry require a roll of
“9” or higher.
Leaders may not be targeted like other units. They may
be eliminated as a result of fire or charge combat that
takes place the battle area that they occupy. If the
opposing player rolls an “11” or “12” without modifiers –
i.e. natural) for his fire roll or charge roll during any 
combat with a unit in the battle area that contains a
leader, that leader is eliminated. A leader may also 
be eliminated when successfully targeted in “Pursuit” 
(see below).
Winning the Battle 
Napoleonic battles usually saw both armies drawn up in
long “battle lines” facing each other. The usual strategy
was to break the enemy’s line, attempting to flank it or to
pierce it. If a battle line was broken, the army could pour
through the gap and get behind the enemy, forcing him
to retreat rather than be overwhelmed.
A player wins the battle when his opponent A) Retreats
(see below), or B) Has no units left in one of the three
parts of his “Battleline” (Left, Center, or Right). To satisfy
the “Battleline” requirement, a player can have a piece in
either his “Starting” Battle Area or the Middle Battle Area
of the Left, Center, or Right as long as he has at least one
piece on his Left, at least one in his Center, and at least
one on his Right. The concept is that an army would
fight as long as its battleline was intact, but as soon as
one of its flanks or center had been destroyed or pierced,
it would retreat.
+0
-2*
+3**
+2
+0
+3**

Once a player has lost all units in one of his Battle Line
Areas (Left, Center, or Right), he has lost the battle. After
a player’s Battle Line is broken, his units are subject to
“Pursuit” (see below). After Pursuit occurs, all surviving
units of the losing army must retreat as follows:
If they were the attacking army, the pieces move to
one or more of the regions that they came from.
2) If they were the defending army, the pieces move
into any adjacent region that is not occupied by
enemy units. Defeated defending armies may not
retreat into a region from which attacking armies
entered that battle.
3) If an army cannot retreat, all of its pieces 
are eliminated.
NOTE: If neither player fires, or moves a unit into the
Middle Area(s) for two entire Battle Turns (Twice through
all Phases), the battle ends as a victory for the Defender
and the Attacker must retreat (and is pursued).
Retreat
A player may voluntarily retreat after the first full turn of
battle (all four phases). He may declare a retreat only
during one of his phases (Infantry, Cavalry, Artillery, or
Leader) before he has used any battle actions for that
phase. Players that choose to retreat are still defeated
and must still undergo Pursuit.
Pursuit 
When a battle is over, the side that won gets one last
chance to inflict losses on the defeated army as it
retreats. All Infantry and Cavalry units in the victorious
army (except those in the retreat area) get to pick a
retreating enemy unit, roll one die, and consult the chart
below. Any rolls equal to or greater than the number on
the chart results in the elimination of the targeted unit.
After Pursuit, all of the winner’s units in the Retreat Area
at the end of a battle rejoin the victorious army. 
Pursuit Chart
If the defeated player has any remaining Cavalry units
when the battle ends (not counting those in the retreat
area), then only Cavalry may pursue from the victorious
army. In addition, the Cavalry units that are “covering” the
retreat must be eliminated before any other targets may
be chosen.
In Napoleonic warfare, cavalry was used to chase down
fleeing enemy forces. They were also used to block these
pursuing cavalry in the case of a defeat and retreat. 
One of the most important safeguards for an army was 
holding some cavalry in reserve to cover a retreat.
Without these, the entire army would be subject to 
slashing attacks while they were strung out on the 
roads trying to get away.
Chart Cards
The chart cards are designed to allow players to play the
game with very little reference to the rules manual.
LEADER
–

SETUP:
The French player has attacked a British army in Belgium, 
moving his entire force in from Picardy. 
The French army includes: 10 Infantry, 4 Cavalry, 
3 Artillery, and 2 Leaders
The British army includes: 9 Infantry, 2 Cavalry, 
The French player places most of his forces on his left flank,
opposite the British right flank, with the clear intention of
attempting to overwhelm it. The British player has spread his
infantry out evenly, placed his cavalry in reserve, and his artillery
in his center. This is a balanced defensive deployment.
TURN 1
French Cavalry Phase: The French player moves his single 
cavalry reserve unit to reinforce the attack that he is preparing.
He holds off moving his cavalry forward.
British Cavalry Phase: The British player moves his two cavalry
units into his center. This move threatens the French center and
may force the French player to reinforce it by weakening the
attack that is sure to come on the British right flank.
Standard Battle Example:

French Artillery Phase: The French player fires his three artillery
units at long range at the British infantry (9 or higher to hit). He
rolls 5, 7, and 10 and scores one hit. He then rolls a 5 when
determining the result of the hit (1,2,3 = elimination, and 4,5,6 =
retreat) and the British infantry unit falls back to the retreat area.
British Artillery Phase: The British player fire his two guns at
long range at French infantry as well. He also achieves one hit
and forces the French infantry unit to retreat.
French Infantry Phase: The French player begins his attack by
moving four infantry units from his left flank into the middle area
toward the British right flank. He also reinforces his center with
one infantry unit from his left just in case the British player does
launch the attack that he is threatening.
British Infantry Phase: The British player reinforces his right
flank with two infantry units, moves one unit forward into the
middle center, and moves one unit from his left to his center.
He also has his two units on the right flank open fire on the
advancing French infantry (needs a 9 or higher to hit), but rolls 
a 6 and an 8 and scores no hits.
French Leader Phase: The French player gets two rally
attempts with his leader unit in the reserve area. He needs to
roll an 8 or higher to succeed, but rolls a 5 and a 7, so the
French infantry unit in the retreat area stays there for now. The
leader unit on the left flank advances into the middle area to
direct the attack on the British right.
British Leader Phase: The British player makes two attempts to
rally the retreating infantry unit and rolls a 7 and a 9. He 
succeeds, and the infantry unit is moved from the retreat area
into the reserve area.

TURN 2
French Cavalry Phase: The French player moves all four 
cavalry units forward and declares a charge with all four. The
British player responds by squaring all four of his infantry on his
right flank. The French player cancels the charge, but has 
managed to force the British infantry facing his attack into
square. This saves them from attack by the cavalry, but will
leave them vulnerable to infantry fire and artillery fire if the
French player moves his artillery forward.
British Cavalry Phase: The British player now has a choice. He
can move the cavalry into his right flank and charge the French
cavalry in an attempt to relieve the pressure that’s building there,
or he can advance them into the middle in an attempt to break
the French battleline and win the battle outright. The French
player has a leader with his cavalry facing the British right, so a
British cavalry charge would be at a disadvantage (+1 for the
French). He therefore decides to go for broke and moves his
two cavalry units into the middle center and charges two French
infantry units. Naturally, they square and the British player 
cancels the charges.
French Artillery Phase: The French player moves his artillery
forward, creating a “combined arms” situation on his left flank.
Any charge combat involving his units there will now get +1 for
the Leader and +1 for the combined arms. This may well 
prove devastating.
British Artillery Phase: The British player moves his artillery 
forward as well, and achieves a combined arms advantage in
the center.

French Infantry Phase: The French player fires his four infantry
units at the British squares on the British right flank (+1 to hit vs.
square means that he needs 8’s to hit). He rolls 3, 7, 9, and 11.
Two hits are scored (and a leader casualty would have occurred
if there was a British leader unit on the right flank). On the 
result roll, the French player rolls a 1 and a 5: One retreat and
one elimination.
The French player also moves one unit from his right to his 
center, unsquares his two units in the center and fires one
infantry unit at British cavalry (8 or higher to hit). He rolls a 
10 and hits, and rolls a 2 and eliminates one of the British 
cavalry units.
British Infantry Phase: The British player moves the infantry in
his center into the middle. He also moves the unit in his reserve
to reinforce his sagging right. He fires with the unit in the center
and misses. He fires with his two squared units at French
infantry (10 or higher to hit because of the –1 for being in
square) and scores one hit resulting in a retreat.
French Leader Phase: The French player rolls twice to rally (8
or higher needed to succeed), and gets a 3 and an 8. One
French infantry unit is moved into the reserve area.
British Leader Phase: The British player makes one attempt 
to rally and is unsuccessful. He then moves his leader unit 
into the right flank to partially offset the large French 
charge advantage.

TURN 3
French Cavalry Phase: The French player decides to launch a
cavalry charge on the British squares. The attack will get +2 for
cavalry vs. infantry, +1 for combined arms, +1 for a leader unit in
the battle area, and –3 for cavalry charging infantry in square.
The defender gets +1 for having a leader in his battle area. The
net modifier is “0”. The French player charges the unsquared
infantry first, forcing it to square. He does not cancel the charge
and rolls a 9. The British player rolls a 7 and is forced to retreat
his infantry unit. Since the cavalry unit has only used one battle
action, it may charge again and does so. This time the French
player rolls a 4 against an 8 from the British player. The French
player lost by 4 and the cavalry unit is eliminated. The French
player decides that he has done enough for now and ends his
phase leaving the British player with two squared infantry units
facing the prospect of close range fire from three artillery units in
the next phase.
British Cavalry Phase: The British player realizes that he must
either attack and hope that the French artillery will miss twice, or
retreat. He opts to attack. His cavalry charges and the French
player does not square. The British cavalry charge gets +2 and
+1 for combined arms. The first roll is 8 for the British and 8 for
the French. The net result is a difference of 3 and the French
infantry are overrun. The British cavalry’s second attack faces
another unsquared infantry. This time the British player rolls a 5
and the French player rolls a 9. The British cavalry retreats.
French Artillery Phase: The French player needs to roll a 6 to
hit. He rolls a 7, and a 9. The results rolls are 2 and 6: One
retreat and one elimination. The British right flank now has no
non-leader units and the British player loses the battle.
Pursuit: Since the British do not have any cavalry that can
cover the retreat, the French may pursue with their infantry as
well as their cavalry. The French player targets the British
artillery with his cavalry first (3 or higher on one die to eliminate)
and rolls 2, 4, 5. Both British artillery units are gone. The eight
French infantry units that are available for pursuit target the
British leader unit first. They need a 6 and roll 2,4,3,6 (got him!).
Four remaining shots are taken at the retreating infantry (6 to hit),
and result in 5, 2, 4, and 6. One unit eliminated. 
Result:
British losses are: 3 infantry, 1 cavalry, 2 artillery, and 1 leader.
The survivors retreat to Holland.
French losses are: 2 infantry and 1 cavalry
The French player won a major battle where he eliminated six
or more British units. This means that the British player must
immediately roll against his “Commitment Rating” to determine if
his government sues for peace.

This is the end of the Standard Rules
You now know enough to play the Standard Rules. When you are ready, you can add
any Advanced Rules that you want to the Standard Rules (all players should agree on
which Advanced Rules will be used or left out).

All Advanced Rules are “Optional”. Optional rules can be
used or left out of the game individually by agreement of
the players before the game starts. The easiest way to
do this is either to play almost all of the advanced Rules
while agreeing to leave specific rules, or to leave out
almost all of the Advanced Rules and use only a few.
This is not required, but makes remembering which
Optional Advanced Rules are being used easier.
Card Play
Card play adds another layer of flavor to Napoleon in
Europe. In the advanced rules, only the words on the
cards have meaning. The symbols and images at the
bottom are used in the Basic Rules only. There are three
types of cards: Random Event, Effect, and Innovations.
Each type has its own rules (see below under each type).
When using card play, the players shuffle the deck at the
beginning of the game and draw cards as follows:
■1 card is drawn by each player before his
Production Turn.
■2 cards are drawn by a player who wins a Major
Battle (6 or more military units on both sides) 
■1 card is drawn by a player who 
loses a major battle
Some cards must be played immediately after they are
drawn (Random Events), others may be held in a player’s
hand until he wants to play them. These may be played
at any time (even during another player’s turn or during a
battle). A player may only hold a maximum of four cards
in his hand. If he already has four cards and wants to
place another one in his hand, he must either play or 
discard one of the original four. When cards are played
or discarded, they are placed back into the deck and it 
is reshuffled.
NOTE: Four blank blue cards have been included in the
deck. These may either be used as “No result” cards,
having no effect, or the player may choose to create their
own cards.
Random Event Cards
Random Event cards must be played immediately after
being drawn. 
Effect Cards
Effect Cards are similar to Random Event Cards, except
that the player who holds them may determine if and
when he wants to play them, and sometimes upon
whom. Effect cards may be played immediately or held
in a player’s hand. They may be played at any time that
is appropriate (They are marked as either Strategic or
Battle). The Strategic cards can be played any time at all,
while the battle cards can only be played when the 
owning player has units in a tactical battle.
Innovations Cards
Innovations Cards represent the many tactical innova-
tions that were invented, evolved, and perfected during
the Napoleonic period. When a player “possesses” a 
particular innovation, he places the card in front of him
near the gameboard so that all players can see which
innovations he has. His forces then benefit from 
that innovation. 
Innovation cards are played differently depending on
whether the players are playing an “Historical” or “
A-Historical” game:
Historical
When playing an historical game, the innovations cards
are not included in the deck. Instead they are given to
the appropriate major nations that are listed on the card.

These nations only benefit from the innovation during the
dates that are also listed on the card for their nation.
Therefore, certain innovations may go into effect or stop
being effective depending on the current date in the
game/ scenario. Innovations cards that are not in effect,
are placed aside (not in the deck).
A-Historical
In A-Historical games, the players may use the Historical
rules for innovations cards if they decide to at the begin-
ning of the game, otherwise they are placed into the
deck with the other two types and can be drawn and
possessed by any nation, regardless of the nations listed
on the card. This gives another random and alternative
history flavor to the game.
When drawn, they may be held in a player’s hand until a
player wants to pay for them. Each new innovation
costs the player 10 PP’s before they may be “possessed”
and placed in front of that player. Possessing the same
innovation more than once has no extra benefit. 
Attrition in Spain and Russia
Any invading (enemy) armies in Spanish or Russian
Homeland Regions must roll for “Attrition” before the
Production Phase (after every three months). This
reflects the effects of stragglers, deserters, weakness
from hunger, thirst, and illness, as well as hostile action
of the local population. These were hard places to cam-
paign and the people of these nations were cruel in their
treatment of invaders. Roll a die for each army (Infantry,
Cavalry, or Artillery unit). If a “1”is rolled, that unit is 
eliminated. Invading units in Russia during the 
post-December production Phase, are eliminated 
on a “1” or “2”.
Forced March
Infantry and Artillery units may “Force March” on the
strategic map. If they succeed, force marching allows
them to move an additional region during movement.
Each unit that the moving player wishes to Force March
must roll 2 dice to see if the attempt was successful. On
a “9” or higher the move is successful and the unit may
move a second region. If the roll is “5” or less, the unit is
eliminated due to attrition and disorder. A roll of “6”, “7”,
or “8” means that the unit may not move its second
region, but no negative consequences have resulted
from the attempt. 
When using this rule, the “Advanced Mobility and
Foraging” innovations card gives the owner +2 on this
chart instead of its normal effect.
Minor Navies
Portugal, Holland, Denmark, and Sweden had fairly large
navies during the Napoleonic era. If they join a player-
nation’s empire through a Diplomatic Overture or annexa-
tion, one free naval squadron is placed in an adjacent
sea area. If a player attempts to annex one of these
nations and the Minor Nation resists them, the free naval
squadron goes to the Player Nation that gains control of
their forces (see Annexation above). A nation gets no
additional naval squadrons if he owns these nations at
the beginning of a scenario.
Multi-Regional Minor Nations
The following two-region combinations are treated as one
nation if both are neutral (unowned) at the beginning of a
scenario. If either Region is invaded or joins a major
nation, roll for twice as many troops and place them in
either or both Regions.
1) Denmark and Norway
2) Sweden and Finland
3) Sicily and Naples
Hungary

Countercharges
Any Cavalry that has not used both of its Battle Actions
may Countercharge enemy Infantry or Cavalry that
charge other friendly units in the same battle area in that
same turn. This occurs immediately after the enemy
infantry charges, or the cavalry charges for the first time
(before its second charge, if it has one). Countercharges
get an additional +1 to their attack roll (in addition to any
other modifiers). Cavalry that is eligible to Countercharge
should be placed sideways to denote that they have not
used all of their Battle Actions and can Countercharge.
Infantry that is being countercharged may not “Square”.
Only one countercharge is allowed per Cavalry unit per
turn regardless of whether it had one or two Battle
Actions saved.
Initiative
A big part of cavalry’s role was to scout the area in front
of the army to find the enemy. Conversely, they were
supposed to prevent the enemy cavalry from learning the
exact whereabouts of the rest of the army. Successful
execution of this mission gave a big advantage to the
side with better intelligence of the enemy. The Leaders
could then use this intelligence to attack the enemy
before they knew what hit them. Good intelligence and
decisive action by the commander gave the attacking
army the initiative and a huge advantage.
When two armies come together in the same Region for
a battle, before setting up the battle, roll for initiative.
Both armies roll two dice and add the following:
+1 for each Cavalry and Irregular Cavalry Unit 
(not Heavy Cavalry) in the battle
+2 for each Leader in the battle
+1 for each Light Infantry Unit in the battle
+2 for the nation having the “Superior Light Cavalry”
Innovations Card (rather than its normal effect) 
If the net comparison is a draw or a difference of 1, setup
the battle normally with a divider (neither side knows
exactly what the opponent is doing). If one side wins by
2-7, the other side must setup their units first and in full
view of the side that won initiative. The winner also
moves first, regardless of which side initiated the battle.
If one side wins by 8 or more (total surprise), then the
other side must setup first, in full view of the winner, the
winner moves first, AND all the winner’s units in that 
battle get an additional Battle Action during the first turn
of the battle. This would allow Cavalry to move up and
attack twice, Artillery to fire twice or move up and fire,
and Infantry could move up and fire or charge.
When using this rule, the Innovations Card “Superior Light
Cavalry” does not have the effect on the card, but adds
“3” as shown above.
Reinforcement
If the moving player moves more than one group of
pieces into a battle from different regions, they may
arrive in the battle at different times during the battle.
Keep them separated while determining their arrival. The
moving player must pick which group is the “main group”.
The main group starts the battle. All other groups must
roll on the table below to see when they arrive. Roll one
die for each group.
Die Roll
Result
beginning of turn 3
beginning of turn 2
beginning of turn 1
4-6
Sets up with the main group before
the battle
When using this rule, the “Corps d’ Armee”
Innovation card gives the owner +1
on this chart.

Terrain
Terrain features were an important part of a commander’s
decision to fight in a particular area. Wellington chose to
defend near Waterloo based on the lay of the land. Even
attacking armies would pick local terrain advantages to
anchor parts of their line.
After Initiative and Reinforcement are checked, both 
players can roll for any terrain features that their forces
can take advantage of in their three “Battleline” Battle
Areas. Each player rolls two dice for each chart below.
The first is to determine how many terrain features he
can place and the second determines what they are.
Terrain features may be placed in any of the player’s
three “Battleline” Battle Areas (one per Battle 
Area maximum).
Special Terrain
1-5
No Special terrain
6-8
One Special Terrain
9-10 
Two Special Terrains
11-12
Three Special Terrains
Terrain Type
Terrain Effect
River Behind Your 
+2 on Pursuit Rolls if You 
Entire Army
Lose the Battle
3-4
Stream
Cavalry –1 to Charge into
5-6
Woods
-1 to Fire into or from; 
Cavalry –2 Charge into 
or from
7-8
Hill/ Ridge
-1 to Charge into; 
Artillery +1 Fire from
9-11
Village/ Town
-1 to Fire into or from;
-1 to Charge into
River in Front of 
No Charge Combat; 
Your Entire Army
No Pursuit
New Unit Types
Light Infantry units are represented by regular infantry
units with a “Light Infantry” marker under them
Light Infantry
Cost: 7
Special: Acts like “Infantry” with the following exceptions:
Special: +1 to hit on all Fire attacks, and –1 on Charge
combat rolls
Special: When Light Infantry hit enemy units in Fire
attacks they eliminate their targets less frequently (by one
point) (e.g. If a Light Infantry units fires and hits a regular
infantry unit, it eliminates it on a 1, or “2” only, instead of
the usual “1”, “2”, or “3”.)
Special: When “hit” by Fire they are eliminated only 33%
of the time (1 or 2)
Special: +1 on all charge combat in woods or villages
(instead of the usual -1)
Special: No Penalty for firing out of woods or villages
Special: Can “Avoid” Infantry Charges like Cavalry
Light Infantry were units of independent-minded individu-
als who could operate in very loose formations (10 to 15
feet or more between men) out in front of the main battle-
line to harass the enemy with musket fire (Some units
even used rifled muskets for greater accuracy). The light
infantry would be firing away at the large target presented
by the tight formations of the enemy’s regular infantry,
while spread out and using any natural cover. The
enemy would fire volleys to little effect and might even
charge with the bayonet, but the light infantry would take
cover from the former and fall back toward their own lines
from the latter only to return moments later. This harass-
ment was meant to disorder, frustrate, and panic the
enemy before the main attack was launched by formed
Infantry or Cavalry. The only solution was for the enemy
to deploy their own light infantry skirmishers or perhaps
chop up the loose order pests with a cavalry attack.

All major nations had units of Riflemen and skirmishers.
However, many only paid lip service to the use of 
skirmishers on a grand scale on the French model. 
Light Infantry units in Napoleon in Europe represent the
use of large numbers of troops as skirmishers, not just
units designated officially as light infantry that fought as 
traditional infantry or small units of riflemen that had little
impact on the outcome of large battles.
Horse Artillery units are represented by regular artillery
units with a “Horse Artillery” marker under them
Horse Artillery
Cost: 14
Attacks: Fire
Special: Acts like “Artillery” with the following exceptions:
Special: -1 on all fire attack rolls
Special: May execute 2 Battle Actions, but may not fire
twice in the same battle turn
Horse Artillery units became fairly common during the
Napoleonic era. However, most nations used mobile
artillery in “penny packets” and rarely consolidated them in
large groups. Horse Artillery units in Napoleon in Europe
represent not just classical Horse Artillery, but the ability
and inclination of a nation to utilize and coordinate mobile
artillery on the battlefield in large numbers.
Napoleon Rule 
One leader unit with which the French player begins
each scenario, is designated as Napoleon and his staff.
Le Empereur gives +2 in all charge combat (instead of +1)
for units in the same battle area, and +1 in all rally
attempts. If he is eliminated, the French player loses the
war (sues for peace) immediately.
This is the end of the Advanced Rules

Scenario I

Scenario I. 1796: The Rise of Napoleon
A great military commander is about to walk onto the stage of history.
Napoleon has just been given his first major command: The ragtag
French “Army of Italy” as it prepares to invade Italy. They have no
shoes, no food, and no pay, but at least they are outnumbered.
Historically, Napoleon led them to victory and began his meteoric rise to
Emperor. Can you win against the odds and build an empire?
Start: April, 1796
■France is at war with Great Britain and Austria 
at the beginning of the scenario.
■Great Britain and Austria are allied at the 
beginning of the scenario.
■All player-nations begin the scenario with 1 PAP.
■Great Britain moves first, However Great Britain and Austria may
not move during their first turn. This is meant to simulate their inde-
cision about what to do next, as well as the fact that Napoleon
grabbed the initiative. 
7 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Prussia: 
Spain: Ottoman (A-Historical)
Scenario II. 1800: The Second Coalition
A second war has been raging for two years. Napoleon has just
returned from a disastrous adventure in Egypt to find that France’s ene-
mies have once again driven their armies to her very borders. He takes
control and looks to repeat his campaign of 1796 in Italy.
Start: April, 1800
■Great Britain, Austria, and the Ottoman Empire are allied and 
at war with France at the beginning of the scenario.
■All player-nations begin the scenario with 1 PAP
■Russia must roll vs. her Commitment Rating if she 
loses 3 or more units in any single battle.
4 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Ottoman (Historical or A-Historical)
5 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Ottoman (A-Historical)
6 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: 
Ottoman: Prussia (A-Historical)
7 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Prussia: 
Spain: Ottoman (A-Historical)

Scenario II

Scenario III

Scenario III. 1802: Peace and Options
The Peace of Luneville in February, 1801 and Amiens in March, 1802
gave Napoleon the freedom to choose a path for France. He chose to
build up the Grande Armee and strengthen France’s position in Germany
and Italy. He also chose to crown himself Emperor, making a mockery
of the divine right of Kings. These actions eventually antagonized the
other rulers of Europe and led to war.
This period offers the best starting point for alternate history, and there-
fore makes the best scenario for a multi-player a-historical game.
Start: April, 1802
■France moves first
■All player-nations begin the scenario with 1 PAP, 
except France, which has 2.
■All player-nations are neutral. 
2 Players: Choice of 2: France: Britain: Austria: Russia 
(France should be one of them) (A-Historical)
3 Players: Choice of 3: France: Britain: Austria: Russia 
(France should be one of them) (A-Historical)
Scenario IV. 1805: Dash for the Danube (or The Austerlitz Blitz)
The Austerlitz Campaign: Napoleon’s shining moment. Turning from his
planned invasion of England, Napoleon marched his Grande Armee
across France and into Germany to surround an Austrian army at Ulm.
He then continued his whirlwind campaign by capturing Vienna and
defeating the combined Austrian-Russian armies at Austerlitz.
Start: September, 1805
■At the beginning of the scenario Great Britain, Austria, and Russia
are allied and at War with France and Spain (who are allied).
■All player-nations start with 1 PAP; France starts with 2. 
4 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia (Historical or A-Historical)
5 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Spain 

Scenario IV

Scenario V

Scenario V. 1806 – 1807: Who’s Next?
With Austria subdued, Napoleon picks a fight with Prussia, knowing that
a victory would leave him totally dominant in Central Europe.
Start: September, 1806
■France and Spain are allied and at war with Prussia, Russia, and
Great Britain (who are allied)
■All player-nations start with 1 PAP; France starts with 2 PAP 
3 Players: France: Britain: Russia or Prussia (Historical or A-Historical)
4 Players: France: Britain: Prussia: Russia or France: Spain: Britain:
Russia (Historical or A-Historical)
5 Players: France: Britain: Spain: Russia: Prussia 
Scenario VI. 1809: The Austrian Phoenix 
and the Spanish Quagmire
A rebuilt Austrian army looks for revenge against Napoleon while the
French army is bogged down in Spain. 
Start: April 1809
■Austria, Britain, and Spain are allied and at war with France.
■Austria moves first.
■If the advanced rules are being used, the Spanish or British player
starts the game holding the “Attrition in Spain” effect card.
■All Spanish homeland regions owned by France, and the Tyrol start
the scenario with an Uprising token on them.
■Russia is at war with Ottoman the Empire (both are active)
■Russia is at war with Sweden (controlled by whomever is 
controlling Ottoman)
■If Russia or Ottoman joins an alliance, the other nation automatically
joins the other alliance. 
4 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Spain (Historical) France/ Britain/
Austria: Russia (Spain controlled by Britain)(A-Historical)
5 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Prussia (Spain 
controlled by Britain) (A-Historical)
6 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Prussia: Ottoman (Spain 
controlled by Britain) (A-Historical)

Scenario VI

Scenario VII

Scenario VII. 1812: Into Russia with Love
For five years France and Russia had been at peace, but Napoleon’s
frustration at his inability to crush Britain led him to try to eliminate his
only remaining serious rival on the continent. At the same time,
Alexander, Tsar of Russia, was tiring of France’s domination of Central
and Western Europe. War was almost inevitable.
Despite being tied down in a seemingly endless guerilla war in Spain,
Napoleon massed a huge force of approximately 500,000 troops of all
nations to invade Russia. As this huge force pushed deeper and deeper
into the vast Russian interior, the Russian army fell back, only stopping
to delay the invaders. Straggling, disease, and garrisoning the long 
supply lines steadily drained Napoleon’s army. After a bloody slugging
match at the battle of Borodino just outside of Moscow, Napoleon’s
remaining forces marched into the Russian capital to be greeted by
empty streets. Instead of the usual victory parade, there was an eerie
silence followed by smoke and flame. The Russians were burning their
own capital! 
After putting out the raging fires, Napoleon’s army settled down in the
ruins to await the Russian surrender. Only silence came. Realizing that
his army could not supply itself in a dead city deep in the enemy’s 
country, Napoleon decided to retreat back to Poland for the winter. The
march out of Russia started as an orderly procession, but degenerated
quickly as swarms of Cossacks swirled around the edges of the army,
killing anyone who lagged behind or went too far afield looking for food.
And then winter arrived. The freezing, tired, and hungry troops began to
panic, and soon the army became a mob. New Russian armies began
to close in on the French refugees and almost trapped them twice.
Finally, 20,000 exhausted survivors limped back across the Niemen
River where the invasion began five months before. Russia had gobbled
up one of the mightiest armies that had ever been assembled.
Napoleon’s reputation of invincibility was now as tattered as 
his army, and his empire hung by a thread.
Start: June, 1812
■Great Britain, Russia, and Spain are allied and at war with France
and her allies at the beginning of the scenario.
■France, Austria, and Prussia are allied and at war with Russia and
her allies at the beginning of the scenario.
■All Spanish homeland regions owned by France start the scenario
with an Uprising token on them.
■If the advanced rules are being used, the Spanish or British player
starts the game holding the “Attrition in Spain” effect card.
■If the advanced rules are being used, the Russian player starts the
game holding the “Attrition in Russia” effect card.
■In a “Historical” game, France controls all Austrian and Prussian
units not in their capital regions. The units in the Austrian and
Prussian capitals can only be moved, and 
production be done for them, if that nation joins the anti-French
alliance. When they join the anti-French alliance, their commitment
Ratings go up by 4 points. (Austria will 
not join the anti-French alliance until after Prussia has) 
■In a “Historical” game, the British and Russian diplomatic 
ratings with Austria and Prussia go up 1 point for 
every Russian unit in the Prussian Homeland after 
November, 1812.
■In a game with less than 6 players, Britain controls the Spanish
forces.
■In an “A-Historical” game, France may not break the alliance with
Austria or Prussia (and vice versa), until the January, 1813 turn. 
3 Players: France: Britain: Russia (Historical or A-Historical)
4 Players: France: Britain: Russia: Austria 
Russia (C:9)

Scenario VIII

Scenario VIII. 1813 – 1814: Defending the Empire
After the horrific retreat out of Russia through Poland, and into Germany,
there wasn’t much left of the Gande Armee. Napoleon rushed back to
France to raise a brand new army. Meanwhile, the Russian army, led by
swarms of Cossacks, marched west to avenge the burning of Moscow.
They advanced through Poland and into Prussia. Their appearance gave
the Prussians the chance to join them and declare war on Napoleon.
Things were coming apart for the French Empire, but it was not too late.
A new army of conscripts was marching east out of France. Napoleon
could still work his magic on the battlefield and reverse the setback in
Russia. However, the ulcer in Spain continued to sap French strength.
Start: March, 1813
■Great Britain, Russia, Spain, and Prussia are allied and at war with
France. Austria and The Ottoman Empire are neutral.
■Great Britain is at war with the United States, therefore, their navy in
the European theatre is weaker than usual, and they lose 2-12 
production points (roll two dice) during each Production Phase. This
represents resources being sent to fight the war in North America and
trade being lost to American privateers.
■In a game with less than 6 players, Britain controls Spanish forces.
■In a game with less than 4 players, Russia controls Prussian forces.
3 Players: France: Britain: Russia (Historical or A-Historical)
4 Players: France: Britain: Russia: Prussia (Historical or A-Historical)
scenario. For example: A light infantry unit is placed in Paris, replacing a regular infantry unit,
which is taken out of Paris.
Scenario IX. 1815: Not Again!
Napoleon escapes his exile on Elba to become Emperor once again. The
rest of Europe puts aside their disputes and unites to rid themselves of this
warlord that has tortured them for almost 20 years.
Historically, Napoleon’s bid ended at Waterloo. Can you do better?
Start: June, 1815
■Great Britain, Prussia, Russia, Austria, and Spain are allies and at 
war with France at the beginning of the scenario.
■France moves first
■In a game with less than 4 players, Austria controls Russian forces.
■In a game with less than 5 players, Britain controls Prussian forces.
■In a game with less than 6 players, Britain controls Spanish forces. 
4 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia (Historical or A-Historical)
5 Players: France: Britain: Austria: Russia: Prussia 
scenario. For example: A light infantry unit is placed in Paris, replacing a regular infantry unit,
which is taken out of Paris.

Scenario IX

Scenario X

Scenario X. 1820: Every Man for Himself!
After the Napoleonic Wars ended, the diplomats divided the spoils, and
Europe settled into one of the longest periods of sustained peace that it
has ever known. But what if balance of power politics had led to
alliances and instability as it eventually did in 1914? 
Start: April, 1820 (use 1800 on the track and add twenty years)
2 Players: Each player picks a nation (any). Then they each pick one
nation to be their “ally”. Roll to see who picks first, or
choose the allied nation randomly. (A-Historical)
3 Players: Same as 2 player. (A-Historical)

The Concept
Napoleon in Europe has been in development for four
years and has undergone a lot of changes, but the 
original idea is still present in the design: a boyish love of
playing with soldiers. I wanted to create a game in
which the players could recreate the strategic decisions
faced by great generals and statesmen, and also deploy
their troops and fight out the resulting battles. The game
had to have the flavor of the period, while remaining fast
and playable. I also wanted to allow players to play on a
large, colorful map-board reminiscent of the military maps
on which generals would plan their campaigns. 
Scale
Whenever a game designer tries to simulate history, he
must make a decision about scale. What does each
piece represent? How many men, guns, horses are in a
unit? How much space do they occupy on the battle-
field? And how do all these factors relate to each other
to give a realistic result? 
A game of this type that simulates strategic level move-
ments and production, as well as tactical battles, must
abstract quite a bit of the details to work. It would be a
fool’s errand to try to assign exact numbers to these
things. The units or pieces in Napoleon in Europe repre-
sent relative strengths of the three main types of military
units of the era: Infantry, Cavalry, and Artillery. When
they are eliminated, it does not mean that all of the men
in that unit have been killed, but instead means that they
have been killed, wounded, captured, demoralized,
exhausted, disorganized, or simply run away. The result
is that the unit is no longer a significant threat.
Napoleon in Europe does not pretend to be a hyper-accu-
rate tactical simulation of the Napoleonic battlefield.
Instead, the tactical portion of the game allows the 
players to use the armies that they have built and 
maneuvered into battle, in their historically accurate roles.
The proper use of Infantry, Cavalry, and Artillery is the
key to victory.
Realism
When investigating the “realism” of a game of this type,
the player must ask the right questions. 1) Do the units
act realistically? Do they perform their historical role? Do
they interact with each other correctly? 2) Do the battles
have the correct feel for the period? 3) Do the battles
give a realistic result? (i.e.: does the system work?) The
design tries to achieve a realistic result by answering
these questions with a resounding “yes!”
The Units
Infantry units form the majority of the battleline. They are
also the most versatile, being able to stand off and fire, or
attempt to achieve a decisive result by charging. Lastly,
they are cheaper to create, train, and equip than the
other two military arms.
Cavalry perform many roles on and off the battlefield.
These roles are all reflected in the rules: Scouting and
Screening (Initiative), Fixing Infantry (Squaring), Charging
and Countercharging other cavalry, Pursuing a beaten
foe, or protecting their own retreating forces (Pursuit).
Artillery of this period were formed into grand batteries to
deliver demoralizing bombardments that could weaken
the enemy’s line as well as their morale. Artillery was the
arm that could hurt the enemy at long range, or be 
devastating at short range. This is represented in
Napoleon in Europe by the overall effect of ranged fire. 
A player with a large advantage in artillery can stand off
and make the enemy make the tough decision whether
to come at him or to retreat. Lastly, artillery is an espe-
cially effective counterbalance to cavalry on the battle-
field. Large cavalry units made especially large targets.
Design Notes

Leaders in Napoleon in Europe represent many abstract
things beyond one single general. They represent 
experience, training, command control, morale, and 
leadership. The more “leaders” an army has, the more
effectively it will attack, and the longer it will stay in 
the battle.
(Note: The following quotes offer great insight into the
strategy and tactics of the Napoleonic era. Quite a bit
has been written about these subjects, but there is more
valuable information in this one chapter, than in dozens
of books that I have read about the subject. It is also
interesting how many of these insights have parallels in
the game.)
Excerpts from Swords Around A Throne – Napoleon’s
Grande Armee by John R. Elting
Chapter XXVI Strategy and Tactics
Tactics is the art of using troops in battle; strategy is the
art of using battles to win the war. – Clausewitz
Napoleon’s Strategies
In every war he (Napoleon) had one clearly identified
objective: the hostile army, which he intended to destroy.
That done, any remaining problems could be easily
solved. If the enemy did not want to risk a battle, they
might be forced to do so by a threat to their capital city.
When badly outnumbered he managed, by swift 
marching and maneuvering, to throw the mass of his
army against portions of the enemy’s, thus being 
stronger at the decisive point.
His favorite strategy (to reduce the subject to its bare
bones) was to envelop one of the enemy army’s flanks
and threaten its rear and communications, forcing it either
to retire hurriedly or to turn and fight at a disadvantage.
Confronted by allied armies, he would attempt to break in
between them and defeat them separately, as he did in
Italy in 1796 and almost accomplished in 1815.
The Napoleonic Battlefield (Tactics)
Once contact with the enemy was established, the 
leading battalions deployed from column into line and
opened fire. (If the enemy was in obvious disorder or
weak, the French commander might try to bull on through
with the bayonet without deploying.) Once the fire fight
began, most French generals preferred to let their front line
take open order and fight as a heavy 
skirmish line, using all available cover and firing at will
rather than keep them standing in stiff ranks. This 
formation – actually the equivalent of the Revolutionary
tirailleurs en grandes bandes – could be employed both
offensively and defensively.
Highly effective though these tirailleurs en grandes 
bandes were, they had to be well-trained, well-disciplined
troops, able to take care of themselves and quick to
reform in line, column or square.
Pushing hard after the cavalry screen, which had devel-
oped the enemy’s general position, the French advance
guard would strike at once, whether to block an enemy
advance or to fix a maneuvering enemy. Thereafter it
hung on grimly, forming a pivot of maneuver for the rest
of the Grande Armee and giving Napoleon an opportunity
to sense the shaping of his battle. As the other corps
came up, they went into action on the flanks of the
advance guard, their light infantry probing to develop
weak points in the hostile position and tying down the
enemy to their front in a heavy fire fight. Behind them divi-
sional and corps artillery went into action, often in
advance of their infantry; corps cavalry darted in upon
shaky or unwary enemy units. Then followed the 
“combat d’usure” (wearing down), as French corps and
divisions delivered a series of jarring local attacks that
pinned the enemy to his position and gradually broke up
his battle lines.
As this attrition “ripened” the battle, Napoleon 
selected the point for his main attack, massed his artillery
to support it, and concentrated the forces selected 
for his blow. 

By that time the enemy was badly shaken and had 
committed his reserves, usually piecemeal, as one 
section after another of his front was in danger of 
cracking. French artillery fire intensified; the massed guns
were pushed forward into practically point-blank range of
the enemy line, which they literally blew apart. Through
the gap thus created poured the Cavalry Reserve – dra-
goons, cuirassiers, carabiniers – completing the rupture of
the enemy’s line and swinging right and left to roll it up.
The secondary attacks elsewhere along the front now
drove home; light cavalry regrouped to launch a pursuit.
Light Infantry and Skirmishers
Skirmishers were the French generals’ main implement for
softening the enemy lines. Coming on in their swarms,
“sharp-sighted as ferrets and active as squirrels,” ducking
and dodging from one bit of cover to the next, they shot
the enemy’s lines to tatters while offering only fleeting tar-
gets themselves. Artillery seconded their work. The bat-
talion columns meanwhile moved up 
rapidly toward the points selected for their attack, usually
getting little attention from an enemy already fixed by the
skirmishers and battered by artillery.
Once within striking distance, the columns closed up, then
went for the enemy line at the double with the 
bayonet; the skirmishers rallied between the columns and
kept shooting. That was important: Columns were big
targets and had little fire power; therefore the enemy must
be kept busy until the last instant.
In cold fact, most armies of that period regarded the 
bayonet charge as the final blow, to be given as soon as
their fire had thrown the enemy’s lines into disorder.
The skirmishers did indeed resemble a swarm of bees. If
charged by enemy infantry, they drifted away, shooting
as they retired; when the charge recoiled, they followed it
back, still sniping. In open country sudden cavalry
charges might cut them up, but veterans learned to rally in
buildings, clumps of trees, or tight little 
bayonet-bristling knots until their supports could rescue
them. Besides preparing the way for French attacks, they
could be used to keep up pressure on other parts of the
enemy’s front, enabling French commanders to mass their
troops at more critical points. Whole demi-brigades, espe-
cially of light infantry, might be used thus as tirailleurs en
grandes bandes.
Whole regiments of light infantry might be employed as
skirmishers to cover a corps’ deployment. At Auerstadt in
1806, the 13th Legere, which formed the advance guard
of Morand’s division, shook out as skirmishers to shield
the deployment of the rest of the division from its column
of march into a line of battalion columns.
The light cavalry’s strategic mission was to scout ahead
and to the flanks of the Grande Armee, covering its
advance with a “vigilant and courageous screen.” It must
maintain close contact with the enemy, detecting his
movements and driving off his cavalry, leaving him blind
and off balance.
After a victory the cavalry’s immediate mission was to
keep on the retreating enemy’s heels, harassing and delay-
ing his columns and seeking to head them off. Seemingly
easy, that was extremely difficult in practice. Your cavalry
was usually weary and also gripped by the emotional let-
down that follows a battle won, while your enemy had
every incentive to get far away as fast as he could.
The tactical employment of cavalry on the battlefield had
several governing rules. While its main effect was in its
shock action, Napoleon cautioned that “it is not only its
velocity that insures success; it is order, formation and
proper employment of reserves.” A succession of shocks
was much more effective than a single big one; moreover,
cavalry was most effective when used 
together with infantry or artillery, each supporting and pro-
tecting the other.

In cavalry-against-cavalry actions, one side or the other
frequently broke before actual contact and headed for the
rear. When neither side flinched, the horses of the 
leading ranks naturally headed for the gaps and intervals
in the opposing line, and a melee of hand-to-hand 
combats began, victory going to the better swordsmen
and more tightly controlled units. Being better mounted
would help if the cavalryman knew how to use his horse’s
superior strength and weight as a weapon. Determination
and leadership were essential to ram the charge home at
full tilt and to keep up that drive through the melee.
It was when one side had had enough fighting and tried
to disengage and escape from the melee that their losses
were the heaviest, since they had to turn their backs to
their victorious enemies.
Poorly trained and mounted cavalry could not keep their
ranks for any distance at the gallop, and too long an
advance at the run exhausted the horses.
Light cavalry charged by cuirassiers was usually 
overwhelmed.
Mounted cavalry fire was seldom of much use. A cavalry
regiment that halted to fire at charging enemy cavalry was
almost certain to be broken, since its fire was 
seldom heavy or accurate enough to stop regular cavalry.
Dealing with infantry, cavalry preferred to catch it in line
and to attack it from the flank, which made it impossible
for the infantry to fire effectively.
On occasion, good infantry in line did beat off cavalry, but
that seems to have been unusual.
Infantry Squares and Combined Arms
When in danger of being charged by cavalry, infantry 
routinely formed squares. Demolishing those was 
usually a difficult, costly business, but it could be made
much easier by artillery and infantry support, the guns
coming up into canister range or less and blasting gaps in
the squares. Infantry skirmishers could pick off the enemy
officers. (Ney’s neglect of such coordination at both Quatre-
Bras and Waterloo had a large part in making Wellington a
conqueror.)
As another type of coordinated action, by threatening to
charge, cavalry could force the enemy infantry to form
squares, which made big targets for their infantry and
artillery.
Artillery tactics were comparatively simple. Napoleon
employed his guns increasingly in mass, moving them
forward as the battle “ripened”. A basic tactical fact of
these wars was that an infantryman would do well to hit
a battery of artillery at 200 yards, whereas artillery could
fire canister accurately up to between 400 and 600 yards.
Therefore massed guns, properly emplaced and served,
could literally blow away great sections of the enemy’s
line without prohibitive losses to the crews. 
The problem was to mass the guns rapidly enough at 
the vital point and put down an accurate, continuous fire.
Artillery seldom dueled with the enemy artillery unless
there was no other target or it was hurting your troops
more than you were hurting theirs.
Pursuit
Pursuit tactics never vary: Push the enemy from behind
with part of your forces to keep him from rallying, and use
the rest to get ahead of him and block his retreat.
Sieges
Though Napoleon first won fame and promotion during
the siege of Toulon, sieges had a relatively small part in
Napoleonic warfare.
As it moved into hostile territory, the Grande Armee 
seldom troubled itself with conducting sieges. Instead, 
if confronted by a fortress, it would drop off sufficient
troops to blockade the place, and continue its advance.
Second-line troops would be assembled to conduct 
the siege.

The Grande Armee Ascendant 
The Grande Armee received intense training from 1803
through mid 1805 at the so-called Boulogne encampment,
which was actually a string of camps along the English
Channel coast.
Even more important (from 1805 onward) was the vast
increase in the strength and efficiency of French artillery
and cavalry, which, especially the artillery, took over
much of the skirmishers’ mission of shattering the enemy
line. Charging masses of heavy cavalry could exploit a
breakthrough far more rapidly than infantry columns.
Dilution of the Grande Armee
After 1808 fewer French soldiers received such extensive
training. By 1813’s hasty mustering it was down to the
barest essentials, which Napoleon defined as forming
square (Allied cavalry vastly outnumbered the French
horsemen), forming columns, and shooting with 
emphasis on individual marksmanship.
After 1807 there was an increasing use of heavier 
formations, though never to the extent that would justify
all of Oman’s righteous indignation. For one thing, the
Grande Armee and its units were larger; for another the
proportion of partially trained recruits, requiring tighter
control, was higher.
Russian

Final Words and Credits
I want to thank those that have purchased this game. 
It has been a labor of love for me, and part of that is the
hope that it will bring them some of the enjoyment that 
I experienced with games like this when I was young.
Enjoy.
Glenn Drover
April, 2002
It is my profound honor to dedicate my artwork to the
memory of my loving father, Edwin Niemeyer. 
The Masai tribe of Africa has a farewell that goes, "Pray
to God, accost only the things which are safe, and meet
only blind people." My father's greatest lesson to me was
to approach all things as a blind man. He gave me his
love, but not his thoughts. He knew my thoughts were
my own. His undying support and love live beyond the
fleeting time he was among us.
Although his race is run, it is now mine to finish.
Paul E. Niemeyer
May 2002 
Supplemental Pieces
We decided to create our original pieces in 1/72 (HO
scale) to allow players to supplement our pieces with the
many great plastic miniatures that are currently available
from Esci, Italeri, and HaT (They may be ordered from
The Toy Soldier Company, The Michigan Toy Soldier
Company, Stad’s, Toy Soldier HQ, and Toy Soldiers of
San Diego). Additional pieces may be purchased to add
variety (Cossacks, Turkish Cavalry, etc.) or specific pieces
from the various nations. If you would like to represent
“the Emperor” there is a great Napoleon piece available
from Italeri.
While plastic pieces may be painted, the best results 
(and a lot of variety) may be achieved by purchasing
metal miniatures. Manufacturers such as Essex and
Minifigs make outstanding 15mm scale figures.
More Information
For tactical battle scenarios, FAQ, Discussion Forums,
painting tips, or any other information, visit the Eagle
Games website at www.eaglegames.net
Game Concept & Design:
Glenn Drover
Box Cover Art:
Keith Rocco
Gameboard & Component Art:
Paul Niemeyer
Sketches and Selected Artwork: 
Keith Rocco, 
Adrian George
Graphic Design & Layout:
James Provenzale and 
Jacoby O’Connor
Legal:
Jack Provenzale; 
Provenzale & Criter
Production & Assembly:
Neal Chukerman and 
Scott Chukerman; 
Chukerman Packaging
Plastic Production:
Matt Jacobs; 
Advanced Molding 
Solutions
Playtesting:
Glenn Drover, Brian Ritzenthaler, Jack
Provenzale, Paul Niemeyer, Christopher Murphy, Alfredo
Lorente, Patrick Provenzale, Geoff Zoeller, James
Provenzale, Bruce Shelley, Bill Wiersema, Kevin Jones,
John Pskin, Christine Drover, Maggie Schmidt, Thomas
Maslan, Nick Szegedi, Pierre Szegedi, Mike McMahon,
Thom Jones, Chris Nelson
Proof Reading: Alfredo Lorente, Michael Eckenfels, 
Jack Provenzale, Maggie Schmidt and Christine Drover
Special thanks to all those who have supported this 
project and this company. Without your support, we
could not have published this product.

Index
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Game Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Basic Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
The Gameboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
The Pieces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
How to Win . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Settin Up The Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
The Turns and Sequence of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Allied Nations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Tactical Battles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Basic Tactical Battles Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Standard Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
Sequence of Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
How to Win (Victory Conditions) . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Ending the Game . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
Pieces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
Land Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Sea Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
Interception . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
National Special Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
Naval Battles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
Political Actions and Diplomacy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
Tactical Battles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
Battlefield Diagrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
Sequence of Battle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Battle Actions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Tactical Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Attacking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Fire Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Charge Attack . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Square Formation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
Cancelling A Cavalry Charge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
Leaders and Rallying . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
Winning the Battle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
Retreat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
Pursuit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
Standard Battle Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
Advanced Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
Card Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
New Unit Types . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
Design Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .71

884 plastic miniature pieces (22 unique sculptures)
representing cities, settlers, armies, navies, & artillery
from four different historical eras (Ancient, Medieval,
Gunpowder, and Modern)
An enormous 46” x 36” mounted gameboard featur-
ing the artwork of Paul Neimeyer
3 sets of rules (Basic, Standard, & Advanced) that
allow anyone to play a game that’s perfect for them
Over 100 full color Technology and Wonders Cards
2-6 Players
North or South?
The American Civil War is a game of
grand strategy and tactical battles during
the epic struggle that divided the United
States. The players take control of the
war effort of the North as they attempt to
save the Union, or the South as they
attempt to gain independence for the
Confederacy. They can lead armies into
battle, build their navy, emancipate the
slaves, enact conscription, or attempt to
influence European involvement in the
struggle to tip the balance. Refight the
war, and change the course of history.
Finally!
A boardgame version of the
award-winning PC strategy game.
Create a civilization to stand the
test of time. Start with one small
village in 4000 B.C. Move your
settlers out to explore the world,
discover hidden treasures (or
dangers), and create new cities.
Will your Civilization rise or fall?
Play Sid Meier’s Civilization®: The
Boardgame and rewrite history!

Four Hundred magnificently sculpted miniatures
that represent the various types of units that
made up the armies of the era.
A gigantic 46” x 36” gameboard representing
the Union, Confederacy, the border states, and
parts of Mexico and Canada at the time of the
Civil War.
3 sets of rules from Basic to Advanced.
The basic rules allow the players to dive right in
and start playing.
Advanced Rules allow a more detailed and
historically accurate simulation of the conflict.
2 to 4 players
Recreate the entire war in an afternoon.
Conquer the World!
War! Is a game of empire building,
exploration, economic expansion,
technological advancement, diplomacy,
and tactical battles in the age of
Imperialism (1830–1900). Players rule
one of the great powers of the era as
they attempt to carve out an empire.
Should they build up their army or
economy? Negotiate or attack? Spend
on research or a new fort to protect
the frontier?
Eight Hundred detailed miniature pieces representing
armies of infantry, cavalry, artillery, and leaders, as
well as ports, cities, factories, railroads, forts, explor-
ers, engineers, native armies, and fleets of warships.
A gigantic 46” x 36” gameboard representing the
world in the late1800’s (the age of Imperialism).
3 sets of rules from Basic to Advanced.
Easy to play “Basic Rules” allow anyone to get right
into the game, while the “Advanced Rules” create a
more in-depth experience.
2 to 6 players

w w w. e a g l e g a m e s . n e t
©2001 Eagle Games, Inc.