2	 GAME OVERVIEW
3	 GAME INTRODUCTION
6	 GAME SETUP: STEPS 1-14, BOARD SETUP
8	 GAME SETUP: STEPS 15-21, CREW SETUP
9	 BOARD DESCRIPTION
	
DISCARD PILES
10	 PLAYER GOALS AND END OF THE GAME
	
OBJECTIVES
	
CRITICAL GAMEPLAY MOMENTS
11	 LEAVING THE FACILITY
	
CONTINGENCY
12	 END OF THE GAME
	
VICTORY CHECK
13	 FLOW OF THE GAME
	
(ROUND ORDER, PLAYER PHASE, EVENT PHASE)
14	 ACTIONS
	
REGARDLESS OF COMBAT / IN COMBAT / OUT OF COMBAT 
16	 MOVEMENT AND EXPLORATION TOKENS
	
ROOMS AND CORRIDORS
	
FACILITY AND SECTIONS
	
MOVEMENT ACTION
17	 EXPLORATION TOKENS
	
NOISE ROLL
18	 TECHNICAL CORRIDORS
	
EMERGENCY STAIRCASES
19	 NOISE / SLIME / FIRE MARKERS
	
MALFUNCTION MARKERS, DOOR TOKENS
20	 ENCOUNTER AND COMBAT
21	 CHARACTER ESCAPE
	
INTRUDER INJURIES AND DEATH
	
INTRUDER RETREAT
22	 INTRUDER ATTACK
	
CONTAMINATION CARDS
23	 CHARACTER WOUNDS AND DEATH
	
KNOWLEDGE AND WEAKNESSES
24	 POWER
25	 OBJECTS AND ITEMS
	
CHARACTER HANDS AND INVENTORY
26	 SEARCHING, CRAFTING & QUEST ITEMS
27	 ROOM SHEET
	
ROOMS WITH A COMPUTER
	
BASIC ROOMS “I”
28	 ADDITIONAL ROOMS “II”
29	 SPECIAL ROOMS
30	 GAME MODES
Game overview
Nemesis: Lockdown is a  semi-cooperative game 
where you and other players must survive in a Martian 
facility infested with hostile organisms.
To win the game, you will have to complete one of 
the two objectives dealt to you at the start of the 
game and safely wait until the rescue party arrives. 
There will be many obstacles in your way: swarms 
of hostile alien Night Stalkers, the rapidly depleting 
power supply, other players with conflicting agendas 
and sometimes just cruel misfortune.
The gameplay of Nemesis: Lockdown is designed to 
be full of climatic moments which, hopefully, you will 
find rewarding even when your best plans are ruined 
and your character meets a terrible fate.
A WorD FroM THE AuTHor
Creating a new installment of a game as successfull as Nemesis is never 
easy. However, doing this in the challenging pandemic landscape is another 
thing entirely. That is why I am very grateful I did not have to walk this 
path alone. The Awaken Realms team, as usual, rose to the challenge and – 
despite the turmoil around us – gave everything they had so that we could 
deliver a game that hopefully matches all your expectations. 
I would especially like to thank Marcin Świerkot. He managed to pull off 
a perfect balancing act: as my publisher, he was kind enough to give me the 
final decision as to whether Nemesis: Lockdown should become a reality. 
On the other hand, as my friend, he helped me overcome my doubts and 
fears regarding this project and convinced me to see it through. To be 
honest, I think very few people could act this way and navigate both roles 
as gracefully as he did. 
Finally, I would like to thank all the players who spent countless hours aboard 
Nemesis. Your joy, shared online, is the fuel that drives me as a creator, and 
the innumerable deaths of your in-game characters warm my heart. I hope 
there will be plenty of both these things in Nemesis: Lockdown as well, and 
I wish them to you – and to myself.
Adam Kwapiński
If you have played the original Nemesis game, 
you can ignore parts marked with this line 
when reading this manual. 
This line marks the UNCHANGED rules 
from the original Nemesis game.
CrEDiTS
Game design:  Adam Kwapiński 
Development:  Paweł Samborski, Ernest Kiedrowicz, Michał Lach
Tests:  Paweł Samborski, Ernest Kiedrowicz, Michał Lach, Łukasz Krawiec, 
Jan Truchanowicz, Adrian Krawczyk, Krzysztof Belczyk, Konrad Sulżycki, 
Tomasz Zawadzki, Wojciech Sujka, Filip Tomaszewski
rulebook:  Ernest Kiedrowicz, Michał Lach, Paweł Samborski, 
Krzysztof Piskorski, William Dovan, Michał Oracz
illustrations  Piotr Foksowicz, Patryk Jędraszek, Ewa Labak, 
Jakub Dzikowski, Piotr Orleański, Michał Peitsch
Graphic design:  Adrian Radziun, Klaudia Wójcik 
DTp:  Jędrzej Cieślak, Rafał Janiszewski, Patrycja Marzec, Andrzej Półtoranos
3D models:  Jędrzej Chomicki, Piotr Gacek, 
Mateusz Modzelewski, Jakub Ziółkowski
Art Direction:  Marcin Świerkot
Thanks:
Special thanks to Ken Cunningham and Jordan Luminais. 
Special thanks to all Kickstarter backers 
who helped us make this game a reality. 
Thank you to all people who tested this game during the long years 
of its making, and to all of the people who joined us for blind tests 
and played the game on Tabletop Simulator.
English Translation:  Paweł Samborski
proofreading: Dan Morley, William Dovan and Katarzyna Kaszorek.
contents
When using Night Stalkers, consider terms Intruder and Night Stalker 
as being equivalent.

This introductory story is designed to familiarize you with the flow of 
a standard game and to give you an overview of the essential Nemesis: 
Lockdown rules. We hope that this story will help you understand how 
a typical game of Nemesis: Lockdown progresses and that – after some 
games – you will have your own stories to tell!
The moment she awoke, choking on the fluids of her hibernation 
chamber, she woke finding herself being nervously lifted by three 
silhouettes in full hazmat gear. The hesitant moves of her saviours and 
the fear in their eyes – barely visible behind foggy visors – confirmed 
what she already knew.
Before she drifted off again, her eyes flickered to another container next 
to her. Inside was one of the creatures who had destroyed her ship...
Too exhausted to even scream, darkness took her.
These screams of anguish and fear would come later when she found 
herself trapped in a dark holding cell, in the depths of a BSL-4 Facility 
somewhere on Mars. She realized then that there would be no return 
home. No chance to mourn friends who had died on her ship. No 
opportunity to overcome her nightmares – full of fangs and viscera. 
For the first week, she still harbored a slim hope that this was a routine 
quarantine – that one day, she would be released back to the light and 
life of the outside world. As more time passed, the truth of her situation 
began to crawl into her thoughts like a  cold parasitic worm. To the 
outside world, she was already dead – one of six victims of some made-
up industrial accident, covered up by corporations who only saw her 
value as an experiment. 
Now, she’d become that alien threat. They treated her just like the 
creatures brought from her ship – with the same caution and the same 
lack of remorse. The experiments and biopsies didn’t hurt her half as 
much as the knowledge that, in their eyes, she was no longer a human – 
just a vector of a dangerous pathogen they did not understand. 
Soon, she began to prepare a crude shiv out of a metal flatbar, grinding 
it against the bed frame each night, while pretending to sleep. She also 
began to memorize footsteps outside of her cell and eavesdropped on 
small bits of conversation, slowly building a mental map of the lab.
Somewhere in the other holding cells, the creatures also did the same. 
Except they were just a little bit faster. One day, the facility thundered with 
sirens. There was gunfire. Screams. A repeating, automated message 
confirmed her worst fears: the base was now under Lockdown. 
Being a Survivor was easier the second time around. With the help of 
her shiv, she dismantled the door panel and fled the cell. The other 
humans on this level were dead, yet she wasn’t alone. The chittering 
in the dark and gruesome sounds of feeding were all too familiar. The 
Power in the Facility was waning – someone – or something – had 
damaged the generators. The dim warning lights imbued the scenes of 
carnage with a surreal quality. 
She smiled. 
Unlike the facility staff, she had practical Knowledge of the creatures. 
Her moves were quiet, careful, and she often paused to listen to any 
Noises in the corridors and rooms around her. That was the only way 
to know where a creature was lurking. Bitter experience taught her that 
once you’d seen one, it was already too late.
Soon, she reached the Elevator Room. It had no power, but this was 
not an issue for someone who had served eight years on a dilapidated 
mining ship. She rerouted the emergency circuit to the elevator. The 
entire Section behind her was instantly plunged into pitch-black 
Darkness. A  lone scream sounded in the distance. She knew better 
than to care.
On the upper floor, there was still power. The looped automated 
message now warned about the imminent Autodestruction. She 
carefully turned the corner of a Transmitter Control Room – and froze. 
Someone was crouching behind a console in front of her. She made 
a step forward, raising her improvised weapon. While trapped in the 
cell, she often fantasized about painful things she’d do to her captors. 
But this was just one older man, scared out of his mind. And – judging 
from his coveralls – he was just a Janitor.
They decided to stick together – a prisoner and a floor sweeper. She 
knew how to survive. He knew how to get out. He told her about the 
Cargo Sending System – a  launch facility used to send and receive 
cargo containers that they could use to flee this place. He nodded and 
agreed to lead her there. 
The creatures were more numerous on this level, despite the light they 
seemed to hate. With the clumsy man at her side, she found it much 
harder to avoid attention. The beasts almost seemed drawn to him, as 
if his scent tipped them off. However, she could feel nothing out of the 
ordinary. 
Two times they had to flee, running for their lives from something that 
spotted them. Once, they had to fight, pumping one of the creatures 
full of nails, before it slowed down enough for her to plunge a shiv deep 
into its skull. She did not stop to retrieve the blade, even though she 
already named it. She had a new companion now. It was good to have 
someone at your back, even as clumsy as the Janitor. She almost began 
to like him. They were both survivors, after all. 
Together, they reached the door to the CSS module – a hunk of armored 
steel, already scratched with razor-sharp talons – with plenty of Time 
to spare. 
“The door’s out of juice,” her friend said, pushing the button. “Can you 
do something about it?” 
Without a  word, she began to dismantle the panel. One look at the 
green lights on the circuit board was enough to send her heart racing. 
She jumped back – a second too slow. A heavy coat hanger grazed her 
head and sent her to the floor. Her companion used this time to open 
the door with the correct button, go through, and lock it shut. 
“I’m sorry,” he shouted through the armored glass. “You see, I know the 
Contingency plan. I’ve seen one of the managers send code Gray to 
the HQ. There is a kill team coming. They have an order to wipe out the 
facility and save one person. A person carrying a sample they need.”
He took something from under his coveralls. With her eyes still hazy 
from the blow, it took her a while to recognize the object. An Egg of one 
of these creatures, still covered with Slime! So that’s why the creatures 
were drawn to him! 
Walking away from the door, she smiled. She knew the corporation 
used the same Contingency codes throughout all its ships and facilities. 
The codes were secret, and very few people knew more than one or 
two that they have personally experienced. However, she did know that 
when the HQ wanted to eliminate everyone but their secret agent, they 
used Code Purple. That’s what her former captain sent on her ship, 
before he tried to flee with an alien larva. 
There was no telling what Code Gray meant. It was better to prepare 
for the worst. For a moment, she felt tempted to return back, to the 
Isolation Room – with its thick walls and doors it could become an 
Intruder-proof shelter. But there was also another way. From the talks 
between the guards, she knew there were other buildings in the facility, 
reached only by a Rover parked at the Exit Room. 
To reach the gate faster, she crawled down one of the Technical 
Corridors, trying not to think what would happen if she met one of the 
creatures in a confined space. 
Fortunately, the Rover was there, waiting. She began to load any 
supplies she could onto its flimsy frame when a sudden burst of gunfire 
caused her to jump behind a cover. A lone Sentry was limping her way, 
shooting down the corridor with an assault rifle so overheated it almost 
glowed white. She noticed at least two or three lightning-fast shapes 
closing the distance. The Sentry managed to reach the vehicle and 
jumped into the driver’s seat, leaving blood smears on white panels. For 
a moment, she felt tempted to jump out of the shadows and join him. 
One look at the deep gashes on his back and sides was enough to stop 
her. With so many Wounds, he was bound to be Contaminated. Sticking 
around him was too risky.
The wheels spun. The Rover drove off in the direction of a Bunker that 
loomed in the red Martian sand storm.
To make matters worse, instead of skittering away, the creatures began 
to sniff around. They knew she was close. She grabbed a heavy Wrench, 
prepared to go down fighting. 
No!
She chased away the wave of despair. She was a Survivor once, and 
she knew she could make it again. She immediately brought up her 
mental map of the entire top Section. With some of the hazmat gear 
strewn around here, a roll of duct tape, and additional oxygen tanks, 
she could Craft an Environmental Suit that would allow her to leave his 
place on foot. 
She was about to take a step forward when a sudden movement of 
air behind her back alarmed her. She turned. In the dark corner of the 
room, an immense shape slowly dropped to the floor, its bat-shaped 
head almost three times the size of hers. 
With a shiver, she realized that on the Nemesis, these creatures never 
reached their final form – one that she could now see in front of her. 
Was it as fast as it looked? 
She was about to find out. 
Nemesis: Lockdown – Game introduction

4 D6 dice 
(2 Combat dice 
and 2 Advantage dice)
GAME elements 
1 Scanner
To perform any Room Action, a Character must be in the corresponding 
Room (unless they possess a special ability clearly saying otherwise).
You cannot perform a Room Action when you are in Combat.
You cannot perform a Room Action in a Room with a Malfunction marker.
rooms with a computer 
Some Rooms have a  Computer symbol, meaning that 
there is a Computer in that Room. A Computer symbol 
enables you to perform a Computer Action.
If there is a  Malfunction marker in the Room, the 
Computer is unavailable – as if there were no Computer 
symbol.
More on Computer Actions – see page 15.
BASiC rooMS "i" 
All the 10 Basic Rooms, indicated by the number “I” on their back, are 
present in each game.
Examine the Archives
EXAMINE THE ARCHivES: 
You may perform this Action only if your 
Knowledge token is inactive.
Gain 2 Knowledge and flip your Knowledge token to the 
active side.
Then, peek at any Contingency token (even outside of 
your Section).
Important: Remember you can never peek at the Active 
Contingency token.
More on Knowledge tokens – see Knowledge, page 23.
More on Contingency peek – see Acquiring Information, 
page 11.
Move through Technical 
Corridors: 
You may move to a  chosen explored Room 
with a Technical Corridors Entrance. Draw and resolve 
an Attack card (treat it as an Attack from an Adult 
Intruder in Darkness).
Cooling 
System
Initiate 
Autodestruction Sequence
Cooling System
initiate Autodestruction 
Take the Autodestruction token and place 
it 3  slots forward on the Time track (there should 
be 2  empty slots between the Time token and 
Autodestruction token). Place it with the yellow side up.
Note: As long as the yellow side of the Autodestruction 
token is visible, players may stop the sequence in the 
Power Generator.
a Decontamination 
Procedure
perform Decontamination 
Scan all Contamination cards in your hand. 
Remove all INFECTED cards. If you have a Larva on your 
Character board, remove it.
If you have a Slime marker on your Character Board, 
discard it.
Emergency room
Treat your wounds: 
Dress all your Serious Wounds OR Heal 1 of 
your Dressed Serious Wounds OR Heal all your 
Light Wounds.
More on Dressing and Healing Wounds – see page 23.
Analyze 1 Object
ANALYZE 1 object: 
This Action may only be performed if one 
of the following Objects is in the Room (for 
example carried by the Character): Intruder Carcass, 
Character Corpse or Egg.
Gain 3 Knowledge.
The Object is placed in the first empty slot on the 
Laboratory board after Research. Then, the Intruder 
Weakness card below the Object is discovered.
If the Object was previously used to discover 
a  Weakness, discard it instead of placing it on the 
Laboratory board.
More on Objects and Intruder Weakness cards – see 
Weakness, page 23.
System a
Enter the CSS Pod A
Cargo Sending System A
Enter CSS pod:
You may only use this Action if the Time token 
is in the same slot as any of the CSS tokens, 
and the CSS Pod space “A” is empty.
After Entering, you discard all cards and automatically 
pass. Place your Character in the corresponding CSS 
Pod  space on the board. In the Event phase, your 
Character will have a chance to escape using this CSS 
Pod. 
Characters in the CSS Pod space are unaffected by any 
game effects unless specified otherwise.
If your Character does not manage to escape using the 
CSS Pod, they suffer 1 Serious Wound.
More on Cargo Sending System and CSS Pods – see Leaving 
the Facility, page 11.
Nest
The Character who explored this Room, gains 
1 Knowledge. This is a one-time effect.
Take one Egg:
Take 1 Egg token from the Intruder board. 
After that, perform a Noise roll.
The Egg tokens placed on the Laboratory board represent 
the Eggs in the Nest. When you take (or destroy) Eggs 
from the Nest, take them from the Laboratory board.
When there are no more Eggs in the Nest (they have all 
been carried away or destroyed), the Nest is considered 
destroyed – place 1 Injury marker in the Nest to 
represent this.
If there is a Fire marker in a Room containing uncarried 
Eggs, destroy 1 uncarried Egg during the Fire Damage 
step of the Event Phase.
A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Nest.
Note: Remember that an Egg is a Heavy Object – see Objects 
and Items, page 25.
Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.
 rooMs 
DestroYiNG Eggs: 
Whenever your Character is in a  Room with any 
uncarried Eggs (not carried by any Character), you can 
try to destroy these Eggs.
Resolve this Action just as a  Shoot Action or Melee 
Attack Action. Each Injury (of any type) destroys 1 Egg. 
You do not have to meet the requirement of a Character 
being “in Combat” for these Actions.
In the case of a Melee Attack Action, the Character does 
not draw a Contamination card or suffer Wounds if they 
miss. 
After every single attempt to destroy an Egg, you must 
perform a Noise roll.
Generator
Stop Autodestruction Sequence 
Power a Section
power Generator
Stop Autodestruction 
If there is the Autodestruction token with yellow 
side up on the Time track, discard it.
power a Section:
Flip the Power token of the Section you are 
in. This can be used to get more Power even 
if the Power was not restored (i.e. the Time token is on 
the inactive side).
Transmitter 
Control room
Send a Signal 
Check an Objective
transmitter Control 
Send a Signal:
Place a Status marker on the Signal space on 
your Character board.
Note: Sending a Signal is a requirement for some Objectives, 
as well as a requirement for one of the Contingencies.
Check an objective:
Choose a Character with a Status marker on 
the Signal space on their Character board. 
They have to show you their Objective in secret.
Note: If the chosen player has more than one Objective, they 
need to show you all of them.
ADDiTioNAL rooMS "ii"
Each game, only 6 randomly chosen Additional Rooms are used, out of the 
9 available. These Rooms are indicated by the number “II” on their back. 
Enter the CSS Pod B
CSS B.
System C
Enter the CSS Pod C
System c
CSS C.
css control 
CSS Control System
Peek at a chosen CSS token. You may move it 
one slot in any direction on the Time track (even if 
there is no CSS token slot there).
You cannot move a CSS token that is on the same slot as 
the Time token.
You cannot move a CSS token into a slot with another 
CSS token.
Defense Control room
Exterminate the Threat: 
Reduce the Item Counter by 1 or place 
a  Malfunction marker in this Room. Choose 
a  Room without a  Malfunction marker and with an 
Intruder. Place a  Malfunction marker in that Room. 
All Intruders in that Room suffer 1 Injury and each 
Character in that Room suffers 1 Serious Wound.
Take Equipment
Take Equipment: 
Reduce the Item Counter by 1 and take the 
Taser Crafted Item or Enviro-Suit Crafted Item.
Contaminated 
Gain Slime 
when Searching
Contaminated room
Gain Slime when Searching: 
Whenever you use a Search Action in this Room, get 
a Slime marker.
A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Contaminated 
perform a Surgical 
Scan all Contamination cards (from your Action 
deck, hand and discard). Remove all Infected cards.
If you have a Larva on your Character board, remove it.
After Scanning, your Character suffers 1 Light Wound 
and you automatically pass. Shuffle all your Action cards 
(including those in your hand and discard pile) and place 
them in your Action deck.
Note: After a Surgical procedure you always pass your round, 
and your hand is empty until the start of the next round.
Take Neutralizer:
If your Character has at least 4 Knowledge, 
take the Neutralizer Crafted Item.
vent Control room
vent out:
Choose a  Room with a  Technical Corridors 
Entrance. The Corridors connected to the 
Room you choose must not contain any Destroyed 
Doors. Close the Doors in each Corridor connected to the 
chosen Room. Remove a Fire marker from that Room 
(if there is any) and place the Venting token there to 
represent the active emergency Venting out.
If any of the Doors in Corridors connected to that Room 
are Opened or Destroyed before the current Player 
Phase ends, remove this token immediately.
If the token remains in the Room at the end of the current 
Player Phase (after all players have passed), everything 
in that Room dies immediately (both Characters and 
Intruders). Then, discard this token.
 rooMs 
2 Room sheets
1 Night Stalker board
1 Intruder bag
2 D10 Noise dice
laboratory
research object: night stalkers
breeder
creeper
larva
adult
1 Two-sided board
6 Character boards
Markers and tokens:
6 Colored plastic rings
5 Plastic card holders 
(Inventories)
20 Underground Exploration 
tokens
4 Power tokens
7 CSS tokens
6 Knowledge tokens
8 Carcass tokens
10 Small Injury counters (1–8)
3 Large Injury counters (1–12)
8 Night Stalker Egg tokens
11 Doors
30 Ammo/Injury markers
12 Fire markers
7 Contingency tokens
5 Character Corpse tokens
27 Night Stalker tokens 
(8 Larva, 3 Creeper, 
12 Adult, 2 Breeder, 
1 Queen, 1 Blank)
1 Time token
1 Alert Procedure token
1 Venting token
1 Autodestruction token
10 Malfunction markers
1 Main Gate
1 First Player token
1 Rover token
18 Status markers
30 Noise markers
Lock yourself
Backup 
power Supply
Restore Power
3 Special Room tiles
10 Room tiles “I”
9 Room tiles “II”

60 Action cards (10 per Character)
18 Objective cards 
(9 Personal and 9 Corporate)
27 Contamination cards
Note: Although they share 
a common back with the Action cards, 
they should form a separate deck.
25 Serious Wound cards
20 Night Stalker Attack cards
22 Night Stalker Event cards
6 Night Stalker Weakness cards
6 Character Quest Item cards
6 Character Draft cards
6 Computer Actions cards
5 Help cards
5 Contingency Reference cards
5 Night Stalker Reference cards
30 Red (military) Item cards
30 Yellow (technical) Item cards
30 Green (medical) Item cards
15 Blue (crafted) Item cards
4 Character Starting Item cards
Advanced modeS 
components: 
10 Solo / Coop Objective cards
8 Mars Surface cards
1 D12 Surface die 
10 Pilot Compatibilty Action cards 
6 Nemesis Compatibility Item cards 
20 Intruder Event cards
10 Surface Exploration tokens
Cards:
Miniatures:
6 Characters 
(Survivor, Hacker, Xenobiologist, Sentry, Janitor, Lab Rat)
6 Larvae
3 Creepers
8 Adults
2 Breeders
1 Queen

GAME SETup: steps 1-14, board setup 
1]  Place the board on the table. Use the basic side of the board as shown 
in the picture.
Note: The basic side of the board is marked by a red arrow symbol 
in its upper left corner.
2]  Place the following Room tiles on the appropriate Room slots as 
shown in the picture.
A)  Isolation Room (place it with the side without a Room Action up)
B)  Repository
C)  Backup Power Supply
3]  Shuffle all Room tiles “II” without looking at their fronts and randomly 
place (face down) one Room tile “II” on each of the Room slots marked 
with a “II” on the board.
Put all remaining Room tiles “II” back in the box.
Note: You will not use all available Room tiles “II” each game, as there are more 
tiles than slots on the board. Players never know exactly which Rooms are in 
the Facility.
Note: When putting any components back in the box, avoid looking at 
their contents.
4]  Then, use the same method to place all Room tiles “I” on the Room 
slots marked with a “I”.
5]  Take the Underground Exploration tokens, shuffle them (without 
looking at their fronts) and place one token at random (face down) on 
each unrevealed Room tile.
Put all remaining Exploration tokens back in the box.
Note: In Nemesis: Lockdown, there are two kinds of Exploration tokens: 
Underground and Surface. Surface Exploration tokens are used only with 
the alternative side of the board.
More on the alternative board side – see Game modes, page 30.
6]  Place the Elevator, Main Gate and Rover on the board as shown 
in the picture.
7]  Shuffle and place randomly Power tokens – 3 in the Sections slots and 
1 on the Elevator token. Tokens numbered 1 and 2 should be placed blue 
side up, tokens numbered 3 and 4 red side up. The blue side of a Power 
token means that the corresponding Facility Section is powered.
More on Power – see Power, page 24.
8]  Take the CSS tokens, shuffle them (without looking at their fronts) and 
place one token at random (face down) on each slot on the Time track. 
Put the remaining token back in the box.
9]  Place the Night Stalkers Laboratory board next to the board and place 
the following components in the corresponding slots:
 – 5 Egg tokens in the Nest slot
 – 3 random Night Stalker Weakness cards. Reveal the leftmost card, 
and place the others face down
Put all remaining Weakness cards back in the box.
CHANGE: In contrast to Nemesis, the first Weakness card is revealed from the 
start of the game. However, it cannot be used until players Research an Object 
or are playing a Nemesis Survivor.
More on Weaknesses – see Knowledge and Weaknesses, page 23.
10]  Take the Intruder bag and put the following Intruder tokens inside: 
1 Blank, 4 Larvae, 1 Creeper, 1 Queen, 3 Adults.
Then, add 1 additional Adult Intruder token for each player taking part 
in the game.
The rest of the Intruder tokens are placed next to the board – they will 
be used during play.
Place the Intruder Carcass tokens next to the board as well – they 
will mark killed Intruders.
11]  Shuffle and place the following decks face down next to the board: 
3 Items (each with its own color), Night Stalker Event, Night Stalker 
Attack, Contamination, Serious Wound decks. 
Shuffle the Computer Action deck and place it in the corresponding 
slot on the board. Reveal the top card of the Computer Action deck. 
If “Lock-down” was revealed, reveal next card and shuffle “Lock-
down” back into the deck.
Place the Crafted Item deck next to the 3 Item decks.
Place the Scanner next to the Contamination deck.
12]  Place the other markers, tokens and dice next to the board:
 – Fire markers
 – Malfunction markers
 – Noise markers
 – Ammo / Injury markers
 – Status markers (used as Light Wound / Slime / Signal markers)
 – Door tokens
 – Character Corpse tokens
 – 2 Combat dice
 – 2 Noise dice
 – 2 Advantage dice
 – First Player token
13]  Place the Alert Procedure token, Autodestruction token and the 
Venting token next to the board. They may be used during the game.
14]  Place the Time token, inactive (red) side up, on the 15th, green space 
of the Time track.
The board setup is now complete! Now proceed to the crew setup.
CHANGE: If you have played the original Nemesis, you might remember that 
a  Status marker was used for the purpose of tracking Rounds. In Nemesis: 
Lockdown there is a separate component for that purpose, a Time token.
intruder symbols: 
	
	
 Larva
 
	
 Creeper
 
	
 Adult
	
 Breeder
 
	

laboratory
research object: night stalkers
breeder
creeper
larva
adult
SERIOUS
WOUND
EVENT
ATTACK
ACTION
CRAFTED
Wary of Shadows
If an Adult Intruder 
attacks you with 
a “Perched in the Dark”, 
ignore that card’s 
Darkness effect.
WEAKNESS
WEAKNESS
COMPUTER 
ACTIONS
If you are in a Room with a Computer 
and in a Section with Power, 
choose and play 1 Action 
from the face-up Computer Action card. 
Discard the card and reveal another one.
2c
2a
2B
20G

15]  Take as many Help, Contingency and Night Stalker Reference 
cards as there are players and deal one to each player at random. 
Help  cards determine the order of choosing Characters (Step 19). 
If there are 3 players, take the cards with number 1–3, if there are 
4 players, take cards 1–4, etc.
The number shown on the Help card and Inventory is the Player 
Number – it’s important for choosing Characters and some Objectives.
Put all remaining Help cards back in the box.
More on Objectives – see page 10.
16]  Each player gets 1 plastic Inventory card holder with the same 
number as their Help card. It is used to keep your Item cards hidden 
during the game.
This is your Inventory, the place where you store all your non-Heavy Items, 
so you know what you have.
17]  Remove from both Objective decks (Corporate and Personal) all 
cards showing a number of players higher than the number of players 
taking part in the game.
Player count symbol
Shuffle these two decks individually and deal each player 1 card from 
each deck. Keep the contents of these cards hidden from other players 
at all times.
Put all remaining Objective cards back in the box.
When any of the Characters encounters an Intruder for the first time, 
all players will choose one of their Objectives and discard the other.
More on First Encounter – see page 10.
Hint: There’s a  good reason why players receive their Objectives before 
Character drafts! Knowing your Objective, you can pick a Character that has 
the best chance to fulfill it.
18]  Shuffle the Contingency tokens and deal 1 to each player. Each player 
must keep the contents of their Contingency tokens hidden from the 
other players!
If you are playing a 2-player game, deal each player 2 Contingency 
tokens. Place 1 Contingency token face-down on the Active 
Contingency slot. This is the Active Contingency and its contents will 
remain secret until the end of the game.
The remaining Contigency tokens should be placed in an indicated slot 
next to the Alert Room – this is the Neutral Pool.
More on Contingency – see page 11.
19]  Shuffle all Character Draft cards. The players choose their Characters 
in the following order: Player 1 takes 2 random Character Draft cards, 
reveals them, chooses 1 and shuffles the other back into the Character 
Draft deck. Next, Player 2 chooses their Character the same way, then 
Player 3, etc.
A player may only control the Character whose card they have chosen 
during the draft.
After the draft, put all remaining Character Draft cards back in the box, as they 
will no longer be used.
20]  Each player takes the following components:
A)  The Character board of the Character chosen during the draft.
B)  The miniature of their Character and places it in the appropriate 
Room. Nemesis Survivors start in the Isolation Room, Facility 
Workers start in the Repository Room.
Survivor, Lab Rat and all Characters from the Nemesis and the Aftermath 
expansion are considered Nemesis Survivors. Any others are considered 
Facility Workers.
C)  The Action cards deck of their Character, shuffles it and places it 
on the left side of their Character board, face down.
D)  The Starting Item card of their Character, if available, and places it 
face up in one of the two Hand slots on their Character board (except 
Xenobiologist). Afterwards, places a  number of Ammo markers 
equal to that Item’s Ammo capacity on the Item card. Some of the 
Characters (eg. Lab Rat and Survivor) start without any Items!
E)  The Quest Item of their Character and places it, horizontal side up, 
next to their Character board. Those items are NOT active at the 
start of the game, but players can perform mini-quests to unlock 
them during the game.
Take all remaining Character boards and their other components and put 
them back in the box. They will not be used during this game.
F)  Leave this spot for the Action discard pile – this is where your used 
Action cards (and Contamination cards) will go.
G)  Place your Knowledge token, inactive (with an empty flask) side up, 
on the Laboratory board. If your Character is a Facility Worker, place it 
on slot 1 on the Knowledge track. Otherwise, place it on slot 3.
21]  Player 1 gets the First Player token.
GAME SETup: steps 15-21, CrEW SETup 

BoArD DESCripTioN
1)  Alert Room (Special Room)
2)  Sections
3)  Emergency Staircases
4)  Active Contingency slot
5)  Elevator Rooms (Special Rooms)
Important: During Movement, Special Rooms are treated as already 
explored Rooms.
6)  Elevator
7)  Example of explored Room
8)  Examples of unexplored Rooms
9)  Examples of Technical Corridors Entrances
Discard piles
Leave an empty space for a  discard pile next to 
each of the following decks: Items, Event, Attack and 
Serious Wounds.
Note: There’s a special spot for the Action discard pile, 
marked on each of the Character boards. Contamination 
cards go the the player’s Action discard pile until they are 
removed from the game.
All the above cards are discarded face up.
All markers are discarded to the appropriate pile.
10)  Technical Corridors space
11)  Time track
12)  CSS token slots
13)  Example of Item Counter
14)  Example of Corridor
15)  Example of Corridor Number
16)  Example of Room Number
17)  Computer Action card slot
18)  Bunker
19)  Neutral Pool
20)  CSS Pod space
21)  Exit Room. Room 001 is an Exit Room on this board.

pLAYEr GoALS AND END oF THE GAME 
pLAYEr GoALS 
A  game of Nemesis may result in multiple winners, but it is not 
a cooperative game – while players can (and should, to some degree) 
cooperate, each player has their own Objective to fulfill. Other players 
achieving their goals are irrelevant to your own victory.
To consider a player a winner, they must meet 2 conditions:
1]  Fulfill their objective, detailed on the Objective card chosen by 
the player.
2]  Survive – meaning one of these three options: [1] lock their Character 
in the Isolation Room with the Facility not destroyed, OR [2] use one of 
the Cargo Sending System Pods to evacuate the Facility, OR [3] reach 
the Bunker.
More on Isolation Room – see Room sheet, page 29.
More on Bunker and Cargo Sending System – see Leaving the Facility, page 11.
objectiveS
Since completing most of the Objectives requires some knowledge of the 
game (for example, Room actions, rules for destroying the base, CSS Pods 
functionality, etc.), you’ll find some tips below that may help beginner 
players to find the appropriate sections in the Manual.
Important! No matter which Objective you choose, your Character must survive 
the game! That means, they must either get into a CSS Pod and escape, run 
away to the Bunker or seal themselves up in the Isolation Room. 
player X's Character cannot survive
The Character of the indicated player cannot be classified as alive at the 
end of the game. You do not need to kill them with any of your Actions 
– they simply must be dead. You might want to trap this Character 
in a Room on Fire or with an Intruder. Maybe you could seek another 
player’s help?
You can also escape from the Facility using the CSS Pod or flee to the 
Bunker, abandoning the rest of the Characters with Fire, Malfunctions, or 
the Autodestruction sequence in progress and hope that everybody dies 
or the Facility collapses on their heads.
More on Isolation Room – see Room sheet, page 29.
More on CSS Pods – see Leaving the Facility, page 11.
More on Fire and Malfunction markers – see page 19.
Your Character is the only survivor
No Character but yours may survive the game.
No Nemesis Survivor can Survive
Nemesis Survivor Characters are: Lab Rat, Survivor and all original 
Characters from the Nemesis and Nemesis: Aftermath.
More on using Characters from Nemesis and Nemesis: Aftermath – see page 30.
Sending the Signal
You need to locate the Transmitter Control Room and perform its Room 
Action. This Room is always on the board – it will be one of the Rooms with 
the number “I” on its back.
More on Transmitter Control Room – see Room sheet, page 28.
Discover a Weakness
Weaknesses can be discovered by bringing an Object to the Laboratory 
and by performing the Laboratory Room Action there. It doesn’t matter 
if you’re not the one who did the research, as long as the Weakness has 
been discovered at the end of the game.
Objects are: Intruder Eggs, Character Corpses and Intruder Carcasses.
Intruder Eggs may be found in the Nest. The Nest is always on the board 
– it will be one of the Rooms with the number “I” on its back.
Character Corpses are the remains of the other Characters, placed in the 
Room of their demise.
Intruder Carcasses are remains of the slain Intruders, placed in the Room 
of their demise.
The Laboratory is always on the board – it will be one of the Rooms with 
the number “I” on their back.
More on Intruder Weakness cards – see page 23.
More on Objects – see Objects and Items, page 25.
More on Laboratory and Nest – see Room sheet, page 27.
Destroy the Nest
The Nest is destroyed when there are no Intruder Eggs left in it. To 
destroy an Egg, inflict at least 1 damage to it and remove its token from 
the board.
The Nest is always on the board – it will be one of the Rooms with the 
number “I” on its back.
More on Nest – see Room sheet, page 27.
Finish the game with at least Knowledge X
At the end of the game, your Character must have Knowledge X or more. 
More on Knowledge – see page 23.
Activate your Knowledge token
Locate the Archive and perform its Room Action to activate your 
Knowledge token.
The Archive is always on the board – it will be one of the Rooms with the 
number “I” on its back.
More on Knowledge token – see Knowledge and Weaknesses, page 23.
All rooms in Sections X and Y must 
be explored
The Facility is divided into 3 Sections. Going from the top of the board, those 
are Sections S-01, S-02 and S-03. When fulfilling this objective, all Rooms 
in the both Sections mentioned on the Objective card must be explored at 
the end of the game.
CriTiCAL 
GAMEpLAY MoMENTS
During the game, there are four critical moments that are not tied to any 
specific round, but are triggered under certain conditions:
The First Encounter with an Intruder.
The first Character that dies.
The Isolation Room opens.
The Autodestruction token is flipped to the red side and
the Autodestruction sequence cannot be stopped.
FirST intruder ENCouNTEr 
When the first Intruder miniature (of any type) appears on the board, 
each player discards one of their Objective cards face down, 
removing it from the game. Then, the encounter that triggered this 
procedure is resolved and the game continues normally. 
From now on, each player has only 1 Objective left and they must 
work toward its completion. It must still be kept secret from the 
other players.
Note: Players cannot look at the removed Objective cards of other players!
Note: Eggs are not Intruders.
More on Encounters – see Encounter and Combat, page 20.
FirST DEAD CHArACTEr 
The first time a Character (of any player) dies, the Facility’s AI immediately 
opens the Main Gate to let the other workers escape.
The Main Gate is opened (remove its token from the board).
More on Main Gate and Bunker – see Leaving the Facility, page 11.
When the Time token reaches a white (number 8) slot on the Time track, the 
Isolation Room becomes usable. Characters CANNOT lock themselves there 
before that moment.
Note: Activating the Alert Procedure allows Characters to lock themselves earlier.
More on Alert Procedure – see page 11.
Autodestruction sequence 
The Autodestruction sequence is initiated by performing the Cooling System 
Room Action. If any Character has done this, take the Autodestruction token 
and place it 3 slots forward on the Time track (there should be 2 empty slots 
between the Time token and the Autodestruction token). Place it with the 
yellow side up.
Note: As long as the yellow side of the Autodestruction token is visible, players may 
turn off the sequence in the Power Generator Room.
More on Cooling System and Power Generator Rooms – see Room sheet, page 27.
During the Event Phase of the round marked by the yellow Autodestruction 
token, the token is moved by another 3 slots forward and flipped to the Red side. 
When the Time token is on a slot with the Autodestruction token on the 
yellow side and has to move further, the Main Gate is automatically opened 
(remove its token from the board) and the Characters can no longer stop 
the Autodestruction sequence.
Note: The Autodestruction token moves just after the Time token, so after resolving 
this step, there should be 1 empty slot between these two tokens.
Note: The Main Gate should also be opened at this moment.
During the Event Phase of the round marked by the red Autodestruction 
token, the Facility is destroyed. All Characters (and Intruders) currently in 
the Facility die.
Note: If the token would go over the Time track, simply place it on the last slot. It will 
be resolved during the game end check.
IMPORTANT: The sequence can still be initiated, even when any Character has 
already locked themselves in the Isolation Room!
More on initiating Autodestruction sequence – see Room sheet, page 27.

 
Leaving the Facility 
CArGo SENDING 
SYSTEM (CSS)
In the case of an emergency, Characters may use the Cargo Sending System 
(CSS) to escape from the Facility.
Entering a CSS pod
Characters may enter a  CSS Pod  using a  Cargo Sending System Room 
Action. They have to be in the appropriate Room and the Time token has to 
be on the slot marked with a CSS token. Only 1 Character may be present in 
a given CSS Pod at the same time.
After entering a CSS Pod, discard all your cards and pass the turn (resolving 
all appropriate effects). Then, place your Character’s miniature in the 
corresponding CSS Pod space. At the Event Phase, your Character will try to 
evacuate using this CSS Pod. 
Characters in CSS Pods are unaffected by any game effects unless 
specified otherwise.
Launching CSS pods 
CSS Pods are launched automatically during the Event Phase in the Round 
marked by a CSS token. At the “Launch CSS Pods” step, reveal the CSS 
token and resolve the corresponding effect:
 
 
 – Character in the corresponding CSS Pod space
	
	 Evacuates. When your Character Evacuates, 
	
	 remove your Character’s miniature from the game.
Characters who didn’t Evacuate are returned to the corresponding Cargo 
Sending System Rooms and suffer 1 Serious Wound.
 – All Characters present in a CSS Pod space Evacuate. When your 
Character Evacuates, remove your Character’s miniature from 
the game.
 – No Characters Evacuate. They are returned to the corresponding 
Cargo Sending System Rooms and suffer 1 Serious Wound.
the Main Gate 
and the Bunker
The Bunker and ways to Exit
The Bunker is one of the safe places the Characters may try to Escape to 
from the Facility. In order to Escape to the Bunker, Characters must fulfill the 
following conditions:
The Character must be in the Exit Room. 
Exit Room is the Room 002 on the basic side of the board.
The Main Gate must be Open.
The Rover is in the Facility OR the Character has an Enviro-Suit.
There is no Intruder in the Room with the Character.
In such cases, the Character may use the Escape the Facility Action.
Escape the facility Action
1]  If there is a Rover in the Exit Room – Simply move the Rover 
with your Character to the Bunker. You managed to Escape safely. 
Place your Character in the Bunker to mark this. Only 1 Character may 
occupy the Rover.
2]  If you have an Enviro-Suit – Perform a Noise roll. If any Intruder shows 
up in this Room, your attempt at Escaping the Facility fails. If no Intruder 
appears, you may Escape the Facility and move your Character to the 
Bunker. Place your Character in the Bunker. You managed to Escape safely. 
3]  Otherwise – You are unable to perform this Action. If you have Escaped, 
you do not take part in the game any longer. You will find out if you have 
won during the Victory Check at the end of the game.
The Main Gate
At the beginning of the game, the Main Gate, located next to the Bunker, 
is closed. As long as it is closed, it is impossible to enter the Bunker using 
any means.
The Main Gate opens during the game in one of the following cases:
When the first Character dies.
By using certain Items/Actions in the Exit Room.
The Autodestruction token is flipped to the Red side.
It is important to note that, once open, the Main Gate cannot be closed again.
Actions that Open Doors do not affect the Main Gate in any way!
The rover 
The Rover used to be a way for the Facility Crew to get around the surface. 
Now it can be used to Escape the Facility safely.
The Rover, at the start of the game, is placed next to the Exit Room. It can be 
used during the Escape the Facility Action explained earlier.
If the Rover was already used, it can be moved remotely back to the Facility 
using a Computer Action. It can also be moved away from the Facility.
To all Research Facility Directors, 
After the latest incident, when an elevator maintenance notification 
triggered a  purge of an entire laboratory, we decided to adopt 
a standardized Incident Response Codes list. The following codes are 
classified – do not share them with your staff! 
CODE GREEN – Use it only if you wish to save the ENTIRE personnel 
of your facility. The Response Team’s directive will be to evacuate 
everyone safely. You will be held responsible for any information leaks 
caused by improper use of this code.
CODE YELLOW – Use it to limit the spread of incriminating details. The 
Response Team will identify and eliminate personnel with too much 
sensitive information. 
CODE BLUE – Use it to save only the most dedicated personnel. The 
Response Team will eliminate everyone, except for those who filed 
proper Incident Report Forms in the required time. 
CODE GRAY – Use it to prevent the spread of contamination to other 
facilities. Orbital lasers will destroy all CSS containers traveling from 
this facility to any outbound destinations. 
CODE RED – Use it after a total loss of your facility. A nuclear payload 
will obliterate the facility, vaporizing any samples and contaminants. 
Your sacrifice will be remembered.
Contingency
Contingencies are the result of how the Corporation deals with the Characters 
after the events in the Facility. As the first step of the Victory Check, the 
Active Contingency will be resolved for all players with the possibility of 
killing some of them.
It is in the players’ best interests to find out how best to protect themselves 
from the Contigency Procedure throughout the course of the game. To do 
this one has to figure out the Contingencies held by the other players and 
those present in the Neutral Pool, and by a process of elimination, deduce 
what the Active Contingency is.
Information about Contingencies can be traded, given, and lied about.
Important: The Active Contingency will stay secret until the end of the game and its 
contents may not be checked until then!
Tokens 
The information on each player’s individual Contingency token can be 
secretly examined by that player at any time but must NEVER be shown to 
other players (just like Objectives). You may trade this information verbally 
or otherwise – Contingency Reference cards can be used to facilitate this 
secretly between two players. 
Note: Various game effects – e.g. using the Archive Room Action – may also allow 
you to peek at other players’ Contingency tokens.
Hint: We recommend using Help cards to trade the information about 
Contingencies. This way this information may be traded in secret between 
the selected group of players.
More on checking Contingencies – see Acquiring Information below.
Acquiring information 
Contingencies other than the Active Contingency can be peeked at using 
various game effects.
You can find these effects among Item Actions, Computer Actions and the Archive 
Room Action.
More on Archive and Computer Actions – see Room sheet, page 27.
More on Items – see Objects and Items, page 25.
Using a Computer Action, you can peek at all Contingencies of any other 
player in the same Section as you are in.
Using the Archive and Alert Room Actions, you can peek at 1 Contingency 
token from the Neutral Pool and obtain this Contingency token.
This way, by a process of elimination, players can make an informed guess about 
the Active Contigency.
Dying Characters 
When a Character dies, all of their Contingency tokens are returned to the 
Neutral Pool.
alert procedure 
Divide the number on which the Time token is placed by 2 (rounding down). Place 
the Alert Procedure token on this slot of the Time track. The game ends instantly 
when the Time token leaves the slot containing the Alert Procedure token.
After activating the Alert Room, the Isolation Room opens immediately; flip 
its tile to the side with a Room Action up. From now on, Characters may 
lock themselves there, even if the Time token is not on any white slot of the 
Time track.
More on Isolation Room – see Room sheet, page 27.
<<< Leaving the facility >>>

END oF THE GAME 
The game ends when one of the following conditions is met:
The Time token reaches the final “S” (red) slot of the Time track – 
the Facility is purged by the Corporation’s forces, regardless of the Active 
Contingency. All Characters in the Facility who are not in the Isolation 
Room die. 
Important: The Intruders survive. If your Objective was to kill the Queen or 
destroy the Nest, you fail.
The Time token is on the same slot as the red Autodestruction token 
and has to advance further OR you are instructed to place a 13th 
Fire marker or a 11th Malfunction marker – the Facility explodes 
and all Characters in the Facility die, including those who have used the 
Isolation Room. Intruders also die and their Queen is killed (this may be 
important for some Objectives).
More on Autodestruction sequence – see page 10.
The last living Character in the Facility (excluding those who have 
used the Isolation Room earlier) dies, uses the Isolation Room, flees 
to the Bunker or uses a CSS Pod – there is nothing more to do in 
the Facility.
If the Autodestruction sequence was active, move the Time token to the slot 
with the Autodestruction token. If not, move the Time token to the final red 
slot of the Time track. In both cases, resolve the effects of these tokens as 
described above.
If the Alert Procedure was active, move the Time token to the slot with the Alert 
Procedure token. If not, move the Time token to the final red slot of the Time track. 
In both cases, resolve the effects of those tokens as described above. 
In the unlikely case when both Alert Procedure and Autodestruction sequence 
were active, they both count as the way of ending the game.
If one of the conditions above is met and at least 1 Character survived 
(either locked in the Isolation Room, safe in the Bunker or evacuated in 
a CSS Pod), go to the Victory Check step.
viCTorY CHECK 
1) Contingency check
Reveal the Active Contingency token and apply its effect to all 
living Characters.
Contingencies are the result of how the Corporation deals with the Characters 
after the events in the Facility, including the possibility of forcibly terminating 
some of them. 
During the game, the players’ objective is to find the necessary information to 
protect themselves from the Contingency Procedure.
More on Contingencies – see Leaving the Facility, page 11.
2) Contamination check:
Each living Character (either locked in the Isolation Room, safe in the Bunker 
or evacuated in a CSS Pod) checks their Contamination cards.
A)  The player uses the Scanner to check all the Contamination 
cards in their Action deck, discard pile and hand. If there is at 
least 1 “INFECTED” card, they resolve Step B. If a  player has 
a Larva on their Character board, they skip this step and resolve 
Step B immediately.
B)  Infected players shuffle all their cards (both Action and 
Contamination) to create a new Action deck and then draw the top 
4 cards. If there is at least 1 Contamination card (Infected or not), 
the Character dies. If not, they luckily survive.
Ending the game 
before the other players
If any Character uses a  CSS Pod, isolates or dies, then they 
can no longer actively participate in the game, and can only 
spectate. At the end of the game, the Characters that are still 
alive determine if all their Objectives have been met and thus if 
they have won or not.
 
3) objective check: 
Each player whose Character is still alive at this step must check if they 
accomplished their chosen Objective. They all reveal their Objective card 
to the other players and check if they have met all the requirements.
If you have completed your Objective and have failed neither the 
Contingency nor Contamination check, you are the winner. There can be 
more than one winner in a game of Nemesis: Lockdown.
<<< END oF THE GAME >>>

The game is played over a series of consecutive rounds, and ends when 
any of the end game conditions are met.
More on Player Goals and End of the Game – see page 10.
round orDEr 
Each round is split into two consecutive Phases: 
I: Player Phase
II: Event Phase
i: pLAYEr pHASE 
Resolve the following steps:
1: DrAW ACTioN CArDS
At the start of each Player Phase, all players draw cards from their 
Action deck until they have a hand size of 5 cards.
If at any time you are required to draw a card and your deck is empty, 
first shuffle the cards in your discard pile to form a new Action deck. 
Then, draw the required number of cards.
2: FirST pLAYEr ToKEN
After all players have drawn their Action cards, the player with the 
First Player token passes it to the player on their left.
Note: In the first round of the game, do not pass the First Player token. 
Each time players are required to do anything in order, start with the 
player with the First Player token, and then continue in clockwise order.
3: player turns
Starting with the first player and going clockwise, each player 
performs a turn of 2 Actions. Continue performing turns in order 
until all players have passed, then go to the Event Phase.
If a player cannot or chooses not to take any Actions on their turn, 
they must pass. If they perform only 1 Action instead of the required 
2, their second Action is to Pass. Once a player passes, they cannot 
perform ANY action for the remainder of the Phase.
When a player passes, they may discard any number of cards from 
their hand. Then they flip their Help card to the Pass side. 
Passing counts as taking an Action in the player turn.
Note: When a Character ends their turn in a Room with a Fire marker, they suffer 
1 Light Wound but won’t suffer any more Wounds from Fire this round, even if 
other Characters play their turn after them. 
More on available Actions – see Actions, page 14.
ii: EvENT pHASE 
4:	Launch CSS
If there is a CSS token under the Time token, reveal it and check which CSS 
Pods are launched this round.
More on Cargo Sending System – Leaving the Facility, page 11.
5:	Time track
Move the Time token on the Time track by 1 slot to the right and resolve the 
following steps:
A)  Check if you have to resolve Autodestruction sequence and 
Alert Procedure,
B)  On Power Thresholds – Check if the Power has to be reduced.
More on Autodestruction – see Room Sheet, page 27.
More on Contingency – see page 11.
6: Noise removal
In Sections with Power: remove all Noise markers in the Corridors not 
connected to the Rooms with Characters. 
Do NOT remove Noise markers from the Technical Corridors space!
7: intruder Attacks
Each Intruder in the same Room as a Character performs an Attack.
8: intruder Fire Damage
Each Intruder in the same Room as a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury.
More on Intruder Injuries – see Encounter And Combat, page 21.
9: resolve Event card
Draw and resolve 1 Event card:
A)  Intruder movement – All Intruders sharing the Intruder Symbol 
shown on the Event card (that are NOT in a  Room with any 
Characters) move to a  neighboring Room through the Corridor 
matching the number on the Event card. If there are two numbers 
on the Event card, move appropriate Intruder types through the 
Corridor sharing the first number, then through the Corridor 
sharing the second number.
If an Intruder ends up in a Room with a Character after the first move, do 
not move it further.
More on Rooms and Corridors – see page 16.
If the number indicates a  Technical Corridor, remove that Intruder 
miniature from the board and put its corresponding Intruder token in the 
Intruder bag. If the number indicates a Corridor with a Door, the Intruder 
does not move. The Door is destroyed.
B)  Event effect – After the Intruder movement step, resolve the 
effect described on the Event card.
Some Event cards have an additional effect resolved only in Sections without 
Power. In most cases, these effects are marked with a special Darkness 
layout shown above. An effect marked with this layout is applied in addition 
to the regular Event effect.
After resolving the Event card, discard it to the Event discard pile (unless 
stated otherwise). In the rare case the Event deck runs out of cards, 
shuffle the discarded Event cards – they become the new Event deck.
10: intruder Bag development
Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag.
The effect depends on the drawn token:
Larva – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and add 
1 Adult token to the Intruder bag.
Put the removed token aside the board.
Creeper – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and 
add 1 Breeder token to the Intruder bag.
Adult – Return the Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag. 
All players perform a Noise roll in order. If a player’s Character 
is in Combat with an Intruder, they do not perform a Noise roll. 
Breeder – Return the Breeder Intruder token to the 
Intruder bag. All players perform a Noise roll in order. 
If a player’s Character is in Combat with an Intruder, they do 
not perform a Noise roll. 
queen – Return the Queen Intruder token to the Intruder 
bag. If there are any Characters in the Nest, place the Queen 
miniature there and resolve an Encounter.
Otherwise, or if the Nest is undiscovered, add an additional 
Egg token on the Laboratory board. 
Blank – Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag. Add 
1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag. If there are none 
available, nothing happens. 
11: End of round
Start a new round.
The round ends after the Intruder bag development step has been fully 
resolved, including any Encounters, Surprise Attacks, etc. Then, a new 
round starts with the Player Phase and all players draw their Action cards.
EXAMPLE OF AN EVENT CARD
Coolant Leak
If there is a Malfunction marker 
in the Cooling System, 
start the Autodestruction sequence. 
If not, place a Malfunction marker there.
REMOVE this Event from the game 
and reshuffle the Events deck 
(including the discard pile).
1, 2) Intruder symbols and direction number. Only the Intruders 
whose symbol appears on the card (and that are not in Combat) are 
moved through the Corridor displaying the same direction number 
as the card. In this example, during the Intruder movement step, 
all Adult Intruders, Breeders and the Queen will move through 
Corridor number 1.
3) Event effect. This effect is triggered after the Intruder movement 
step has been performed. In this example, check if a Malfunction 
marker is present in the Cooling System to trigger the effect. Then, 
REMOVE this Event from the game (back to the box) and reshuffle 
the Event deck and discard pile.
FLoW oF THE GAME 

During each of their turns, players can perform various Actions. There are 
4 groups of Actions in the game: 
Basic Actions
Actions from Action cards
Actions from Item cards
Actions from Room tiles
More on Player Phase – see page 13.
 
 
Action symbols
Action Cost 
Each Action displays an Action symbol. The number in any given Action 
symbol indicates the Cost of performing the Action. In order to pay the 
Cost, the player must discard the exact number of Action cards from their 
hand. Discarded cards are placed face up in the discard pile.
Important: Even though they are added to the Action deck, Contamination cards 
are not Action cards and cannot be discarded from your hand to pay for any 
Action Cost. Contamination cards represent the exhaustion of your Character – 
and sometimes something even worse.
More on Contamination cards – see page 22.
Note: The player must pay an Action Cost even if the Action was interrupted by 
another player. If an One Use Only Item Action is canceled with an Interruption 
Action, discard this Item.
More on Interuption - see Action cards.
More on One Use Only - see Objects and Items, page 25.
Combat symbol 
Some Actions and Items specify when they may be used:
In Combat only – The Character may perform 
this Action only in Combat.
A Character is considered to be in Combat if there is an 
Intruder in the Room they are in. Eggs do not count as Intruders.
out of Combat only – The Character may 
perform this Action only when they are NOT 
in Combat.
If a given Action is not marked by any of the symbols above, this 
Action may be performed in both situations.
BASiC ACTioNS 
Each Character has the same set of Basic Actions:
regardless of combat
Movement – Move your Character miniature to the 
neighboring Room, applying all the Movement basic rules.
Note: When performing a Movement in Combat, you must Escape instead.
More on Movement – see page 16.
More on Escape – see page 21.
out of combat
Careful Movement – Works exactly like 
Movement, but instead of performing a  Noise roll after 
moving, place a Noise marker in a chosen Corridor connected to the 
Room you are entering.
If there is a Noise marker in all the Corridors connected to the Room you 
want to move to, you cannot perform a Careful Movement. 
You cannot perform Careful Movement if you are in Combat. 
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker.
More on Movement, Noise rolls and Noise markers – see pages 16, 17 and 19.
pick up Heavy object – Pick up 1 Heavy 
Object present in the Room you are in. It can be a Character 
Corpse, an Intruder Carcass or an Intruder Egg.
Note: When you Search and find Heavy Items, you are not required to use this 
Action. This Action applies only to Objects.
More on Heavy Objects – see page 25.
Trade – Start a trade with all Characters in the same 
Room as your Character. 
Players may, with mutual consent, reveal and exchange with each other 
any Item cards and Objects they want to trade. Even though several 
players may take part in the Trade (with or without the active player), the 
only player that performs the Action is the one that started it. 
A  player can choose to give an Item card or Object without asking 
anything in return.
Note: Characters cannot exchange Ammo.
Craft item – Discard 2 Item cards showing the 
appropriate blue Component symbols to gain a  Crafted 
Item card with the same Component symbols (but in grey color) as 
the Items you have discarded.
A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have the 
required blue components.
More on Crafting Items – see page 26.
in combat
Shoot – Attack an Intruder with an Energy/Classic 
Weapon in your Character’s Hand, discarding an Ammo 
marker from that Weapon’s card. You can only Shoot Intruders 
in the same Room as your Character.
You may also shoot Uncarried Eggs outside of Combat – see Destroying Eggs, 
page 27.
More on Shooting – see Encounter and Combat, page 20.
More on Items in a Character’s Hand – see Objects and Items, page 25.
Melee Attack – Attack an Intruder with your 
bare hands (or anything you can improvise). You can only 
Attack Intruders in the same Room as your Character.
You may also Attack Uncarried Eggs outside of combat – see Destroying Eggs, 
page 27.
More on Melee Attack – see Encounter and Combat, page 21.
EXAMPLE OF AN ACTION CARD:
J A N I T O R
Clean up
Discard a Malfunction marker 
Discard a Fire marker 
Here, we have a Janitor Action card – Clean up.
1) It shows the “Out of Combat Only” symbol. This means that this 
Action cannot be performed in Combat.
2) Action Cost. In this case, to perform Clean up, the player doesn’t 
have to discard additional Action cards from their hand as the 
Action Cost is 0.
3) Action Effect.
4) Shows that this Action can be performed in one of two ways:
– either to discard the Malfunction marker from a Room
– OR to discard the Fire marker from a Room.
FroM ACTioN CArDS 
ACTION
L A B R A T
inconspicuous
Discard this card 
when an Intruder attacks you 
(but before drawing an Attack card) 
and there is another Character 
in the Room you are in. 
The Intruder attacks this Character 
instead of you.
In Darkness: 
Discard this card when you have to 
perform a Noise roll during the Intruder bag 
development step of the Event Phase. 
You do not have to perform this roll.
S U R V I V O R
SEArCH
Reduce the Item Counter by 1. 
Draw 2 Item cards of the same color 
as the Room you are in. 
Pick one and discard the other 
to the bottom of its deck.
H A C K E R
iNTErrupTioN
Discard this card 
to cancel any Action performed 
by another player in the Room you are in 
(the other player must still pay the Action Cost). 
Cancel an Interruption Action 
used by another player in your Room.
Each Character has their own, partially unique, set of 10 Action cards 
representing the Actions which can be performed by this Character. The 
description of each Action is detailed on the corresponding Action card.
To perform an Action from an Action card, discard this card from your 
hand (face up) and pay its Cost.
Important: In this case, the Cost of an Action is the number of Action cards you 
must discard from your hand, in addition to the chosen Action card.
If an Action card contains two or three sections separated by [OR], the 
player chooses the one they want to perform.

<<< actions >>>
FroM iTEM CArDS 
reagent
Fully load AMMO 
in a Flamethrower.
Knowledge 5: Choose 1 Intruder 
in the Room you are in. It Retreats. 
Thermite 
Charge
Choose 1 Room 
(the one you are in or neighboring). 
Place a Malfunction 
and a Fire marker in this Room. 
All Characters and Intruders 
in the chosen Room (including you) 
suffer 1 Injury / Light Wound.
Fire blanket
Discard a Fire marker 
Discard a Slime marker.
scalpel
1 chosen Character 
(including yourself) 
in the Room you are in removes 
a Larva from their Character board. 
If they do, they suffer 
1 Serious Wound.
1 chosen Intruder in the Room 
you are in suffers 1 Injury. 
Get 1 Contamination card.
MEDKIT
Heal 1 Dressed Serious Wound.
Some Item cards allow a Character to perform specific Actions. 
Their description is provided on the Item cards.
More on Items – see page 25.
FroM rooM TILES 
Most of the Rooms allow a Character to perform a specific Action. 
The description of each Room Action is provided on the Room sheet – see 
pages 27–29.
Computer ActionS 
The Computer Actions deck starts the game with 1 card revealed. Each 
Character that is in a Section with Power and in a Room with a Computer 
may use a Computer Action to perform one of the 3 actions listed on the 
revealed Computer card. Place this card at the bottom of the deck afterwards 
and reveal the next card from the top of the deck. 
Whenever a  Lockdown card is revealed from this deck, immediately 
resolve it.
Note: If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room with a Computer, the Computer is 
unavailable – as if there was no Computer symbol.
More on Computers – see Room sheet, page 27.
 

Moving around the Facility is one of the basic activities for Characters during 
the game. Characters will roam through the Facility to discover additional 
Rooms, find Items that are useful or vital to their survival, complete 
objectives, repair dangerous and Malfunctioning gear and extinguish Fires 
in order to survive.
rooMS 
AND CorriDorS 
ROOMS are connected by CORRIDORS that allow both Character and 
Intruder miniatures to move between them. Neither Characters nor 
Intruders can ever stop in Corridors for any reason (i.e. miniatures can 
only be placed in ROOMS) and the effects of moving through any given 
Corridor are resolved AFTER moving into the Room.
Character Actions can only be performed in ROOMS.
Special Rooms (like Alert Room, Elevator Rooms or Emergency 
Staircases) are treated as normal Rooms. The only difference being they 
have no Item Counters (i.e. Search cannot be used while in one) and are 
printed on the board.
CSS Pods and Bunker are the only exceptions to the rule above – see Leaving the 
Facility, page 11.
Facility and Sections 
sections
The Facility is divided into 3 Sections. Each Section has its own Power 
Source. Sections are described as “S-01”, “S-02” and “S-03” according to 
their position on the board. Each Section is marked with a different color 
outline that matches the color of its Corridors and Rooms. On the basic side 
of the board, Sections are separated by the Emergency Staircases.
When the game mentions a Section in an effect modifying Power, treat an 
Elevator Power token as a separate 4th Section.
 
 
MovEMENT ACTioN 
The most common Action used to move around the Facility is MOVEMENT.
More on Movement Action – see Actions, page 14.
A Movement Action allows a Character to move to a neighboring Room. 
Two Rooms are considered neighboring when they are directly connected 
by a Corridor. Closed Doors can block the “neighboring” status for the 
purpose of players’ Movement.
More on Closed Doors – see Markers and Tokens, page 19.
After entering a Room, always resolve the following steps:
1)  If this Room tile was unexplored (face down), turn it face up. Then, 
reveal and resolve the EXPLORATION TOKEN lying on that Room tile.
More on Exploration tokens – see page 17.
2)  If a Character enters an empty Room (explored or unexplored, with 
neither Characters nor Intruders), perform a NOISE ROLL.
If another Character or Intruder is already in the Room the Character is 
entering, do not perform a NOISE ROLL.
Hint: Beware that whilst there is an advantage to moving in groups (entering 
Rooms that already contain Characters), such tactics may generate additional risks. 
Some events in the game instruct all Characters to perform a Noise roll – in such 
a case, bigger groups sharing a common Room might find themselves in trouble...
oTHEr MovEMENT ACTioNS 
Some of the Actions allow a Character to perform Movement, but modify its 
rules in some way – like Careful Movement, Facility Tour and Vents.
Important: To perform a Movement Action to leave a Room containing an Intruder, 
you must use the Escape rule – see Encounter and Combat, page 21.
More on Careful Movement – see Basic Actions, page 14.
More on Facility Tour – see Sentry Action cards.
More on Vents – see Survivor Action cards.
MovEMENT AND EXpLorATioN ToKENS 
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN UNEXPLORED ROOM
Here, we can see the Survivor moving from the Elevator Room to 
an unexplored Room. The player has already discarded an Action 
card to perform this Movement.
Before moving the miniature, the player flips both the Exploration 
token (yellow) and the Room tile (white) face up.
The Survivor discovers the Archive. As indicated by the Exploration 
token, the Room is Malfunctioning, so an appropriate token 
is placed on its tile. Luckily, there are 3 Items to be found. The 
Room tile is rotated, so its Item Counter points toward number 3. 
Afterwards, our brave Survivor must perform a Noise roll since she 
has entered an empty Room.
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN EMPTY ROOM
Here, we can see the Survivor moving into the Archive. The player 
discards an Action card, the miniature is moved and a NOISE ROLL 
is performed.
The result is 2, so a Noise marker (green glow) is placed in the Corridor 
connected to the Archive showing the result’s number, “2” (red glow). If 
the Corridor “2” already contains a Noise marker, an Encounter takes 
place. Luckily for the Survivor, everything is fine… for now.

 
EXpLorATioN ToKENS
In Nemesis: Lockdown, there are two types of Exploration tokens: 
Underground and Surface. Surface Exploration tokens are used only with the 
alternative side of the board.
More on the alternative board side – see Game modes, page 30.
The front side of each Exploration token displays:
1)  a number indicating the amount of Items in a given Room
2)  a special Effect symbol
They are resolved in the following way:
1) SET up THE AMouNT 
oF items iN A room 
After revealing the Exploration token, rotate the Room tile until the 
number shown on the token faces the Item Counter symbol printed on 
the board, next to the Room tile slot. This is the exact amount of Items 
that can be obtained from this Room.
Exception: Do not set the amount of Items when the Nest Room is revealed.
More on Searching Items – see Objects and Items, page 26 and Search Action card.
Item Counter set to 2 Items
2) rESoLvE SpECiAL EFFECT 
An Exploration token may generate the following effects:
SiLENCE: 
Nothing happens.
Do not perform a  Noise roll for this Movement. If the 
Character has a Slime marker on their Character board, 
then resolve “Danger” instead.
If this token was revealed due to a Careful Movement, you 
still place a Noise marker.
DANGEr: 
Do not perform a Noise roll for this Movement.
If there is an Intruder in the neighboring Room (and it is 
not in Combat with any Character), move it to this Room. 
If there is more than one Intruder eligible, move them all.
Keep in mind that an Intruder trying to move through 
a  Corridor with Closed Doors will destroy them instead 
of moving!
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms 
(or if they are in Combat), place a Noise marker in each 
Corridor connected to this Room without a Noise marker 
already present (including Technical Corridors if there is an 
Entrance in the Room).
If this token was revealed due to a Careful Movement, you 
still resolve the Danger effect.
SLiME: 
Place a Status marker in the indicated slot of your Character 
board to show they have been covered with slime.
More on Slime markers – see page 19.
FirE: 
Place a Fire marker in this Room.
More on Fire markers – see page 19.
MALFuNCTIoN: 
Place a Malfunction marker in this Room.
More on Malfunction markers – see page 19.
Door: 
Place a  Door token in the Corridor by which you have 
entered this Room.
More on Door tokens – see page 19.
After resolving an Exploration token, remove it from the game.
Exploration tokens are placed on unexplored Rooms, so they are only resolved 
once when the Room they are in. is entered for the first time in the game.
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN OCCUPIED ROOM
In this example, the Survivor is moving into a  Room already 
occupied by the Janitor. As there is someone in the target Room, 
there is NO NOISE ROLL.
The same rule would apply if the Survivor was moving into a Room 
containing an Intruder. NO NOISE ROLL would be required.
NoiSE roLL 
Noises echo throughout the Facility... Sometimes 
it’s the machinery, sometimes it’s the Intruders.
REMEMBER: If you are moving into a Room with either another Character 
or an Intruder – you do NOT perform a Noise roll. 
When you enter a Room, roll a Noise die and resolve the result:
 
 
 
 
rESuLT oF 1, 2, 3 or 4: 
Place a Noise marker in the Corridor with the number corresponding 
to the result of your Noise roll that is connected to the Room you have 
just entered (including Technical Corridors, if there is an Entrance in 
the Room).
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker. If you are 
instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that already contains 
one, resolve an Encounter instead.
DANGEr: 
If there is an Intruder in a neighboring Room (and it is not in 
Combat with any Character), move it to this Room. If there is 
more than one Intruder eligible, move them all.
Keep in mind that an Intruder trying to move through a Corridor with 
Closed Doors will destroy them instead of moving!
More on Door tokens – see page 19.
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms (or if they are in 
Combat), place a Noise marker in each Corridor connected to this Room 
that does not already have a Noise marker (including Technical Corridors, 
if there is an Entrance in the Room).
More on Technical Corridors – see page 18
SiLENCE: 
Nothing happens. No Noise marker is placed. 
If the Character has a Slime marker on their Character board, 
then resolve “Danger” instead.

TECHNiCAL CorriDorS
Technical Corridors sprawl underneath the base, 
using natural caves and tunnels as ducts. The 
ingenious idea that cut the cost of constructing 
them in half now bears other, rotting fruits – as 
the caves are connected to almost every room 
in the facility, unspeakable horrors can appear 
anywhere, anytime. 
1) Technical Corridors space
2) Example of Technical Corridors Entrance
Both the Technical Corridors Entrances (present in some Rooms) and the 
special Technical Corridors space are not accessible to the Characters. 
Outside these movement restrictions, Technical Corridors function like 
normal Corridors in all other ways.
The Vents Action card from the Survivor Action deck, Cave Entrance Room Action 
and the Cave Plans Item card are the only exceptions to this rule.
If (for example as the result of a Noise roll) a Noise marker should be 
placed and the number leads to a Technical Corridor Entrance, this Noise 
marker should be placed on the Technical Corridors space.
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker. If you are 
instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that already contains 
one, resolve an Encounter instead.
Door tokens can never be placed in Technical Corridors. 
If an Intruder moves to the Technical Corridors Entrance, then it 
disappears in the ducts: discard all its Injury markers, return its token to 
the Intruder bag, and remove its miniature from the board. If there was 
a Noise marker on the Technical Corridors space, do not remove it.
 
Staircases 
All Rooms between Sections are Emergency Staircases. They are always 
considered to be in Darkness and should be treated as black Rooms with 
no Action. 
Moving between Sections without any source of light (like a Glowstick or 
a Flashlight) is a dangerous endeavor. 
More on Darkness – see Power, page 24
More on Glow Stick and Flashlight – see Item cards.
They can contain a Malfunction marker, which has no other Effect than 
lowering the number of Malfunction markers in the pool.
Note: Emptying the Malfunction marker pool leads to the destruction of the 
whole Facility.
More on Malfunction – see page 19.
Emergency Staircases are not treated as a part of any Section. (Thus, they 
are always in a different Section for e.g. Event effects).
Additional notes about 
intruder movement
Intruders move at different times of the game (for example, 
when resolving an Event card during the Event Phase). 
Whenever a  rule makes you move one or more Intruders, it 
explains in detail how to do it.
Important: If an Intruder ends its Movement in an unexplored Room, do 
not remove it and don’t reveal the Room (or its Exploration token).
If you are instructed to place an Adult Intruder on the board, 
but all 8 miniatures are already present – the Adult Intruders 
Retreat. Remove all Adult Intruder miniatures that are not in 
Combat and put the same number of Intruder tokens back in 
the Intruder bag (if possible). 
Then, place an Adult Intruder miniature in the Room where the 
Encounter occurred.
NOISE CLARIFICATIONS
Even if the Noise marker (blue glow) is in the Corridor with the 
Closed Door, it affects the WHOLE Corridor. Noise markers NEVER 
affect only a part of the Corridor “on one side of the Door”. 
When there is a Noise marker in the Technical Corridors space 
(green ring), it is treated as if it was in each Technical Corridor 
Entrance on the whole board. In this example, there are two Noise 
markers in Corridors connected to the Guard Room: one in the 
Corridor number 4, with the Closed Door (blue glow), and the other 
in the Technical Corridors (green ring).

 
Markers and Tokens 
NoiSE Marker 
The only function of the Noise markers is to mark Corridors 
for the purpose of the Noise roll rule.
SLiME Marker 
As long as the Character has a  Slime marker on their 
Character board, each “Silence” result of a  Noise roll 
(and each “Silence” Exploration token) should instead be 
considered as “Danger”.
The Slime marker is a universal Status marker, placed in the 
Slime slot of the Character board.
A Character may only have 1 Slime marker at a time and if 
they are instructed to get another, nothing happens.
Note: A Character may get a Slime marker due to many reasons, 
not only when resolving an Exploration token.
A Character may get rid of a Slime marker by using the Clothes Item 
card (see Item cards) or taking a Decon Room Action (see Room sheet).
FirE Marker 
Fire markers have three functions: 1) they wound 
Characters ending their turns in Rooms on Fire, 2) they 
deal Injuries to Intruders and 3) they may cause the whole 
Facility to explode.
1)  Every time a Character ends their turn in a Room with 
a Fire marker, this Character suffers 1 Light Wound.
Remember that a  Character’s turn consists of 2 Actions (or 1 
Action and pass, or simply pass).
Important: Characters suffer Wounds from Fire only after they finish 
their turn. If the Character passes, they suffer 1 Light Wound from Fire 
at the end of their turn, but they won’t suffer any more Wounds from 
Fire this round, even if other Characters play their turn after them.
More on Light Wounds – see Character Wounds and Death, page 23.
More on Actions – see Player Phase, page 13.
2)  During each Event Phase, during the Fire Damage step, 
each Intruder present in a Room with a Fire marker suffers 
1 Injury.
More on Intruder Injuries – see Intruder Injuries and Death, page 21.
3)  There are 12 Fire markers in the game. If you are 
instructed to place a Fire marker and there are no more 
markers in the pool, the Facility explodes and the game ends.
Note: Some Event cards may cause the Fire to spread to 
neighboring Rooms, so be careful!
More on End of the Game – see page 12.
Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Fire marker. 
If you are instructed to place another one, nothing happens. 
A Fire marker may be placed in an Unexplored Room (i.e. 
due to an Event card effect). 
Any discarded Fire marker goes back to the Fire marker pool. 
You can still use a Room Action and/or a Search Action when there 
is a Fire marker in the Room. 
MALFuNCTioN Marker 
Malfunction markers have two purposes: 1) they prevent you 
from using this Room’s Actions and 2) they may cause the 
Facility’s destruction – meaning everything on the board dies.
1)  If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room, that Room’s 
Action is no longer available. The Search Action works 
normally, though.
Various Action cards (like Repair Action cards) and Items 
(like the Toolbelt Item card) may be used to discard 
a Malfunction marker.
Important: A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Nest 
or in the Contaminated Room.
Note: A Malfunction marker may be placed in a Room due to many 
reasons other than resolving an Exploration token (like some 
Events or Actions). They may even disable Special Rooms (such 
as the Repository, Isolation Room, Alert Room or Elevator Rooms).
Note: A Malfunction marker in the Isolation Room has no Effect on 
already locked Characters.
2)  There are 10 Malfunction markers in the game. If you 
are instructed to place a Malfunction marker and there are 
no more markers in the pool, the base is destroyed and the 
game ends.
More on End of the Game – see page 12.
Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Malfunction 
marker. If you are instructed to place another one, nothing 
happens. A  Malfunction marker cannot be placed in an 
Unexplored Room (i.e. due to an Event card effect).
Any discarded Malfunction marker goes back to the 
Malfunction marker pool.
If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room 
with a Computer, the Computer is unavailable 
– treat that Room as if there was no 
Computer symbol.
More on Computers – see Room sheet, page 27.
Door ToKEN 
Door tokens are only placed in Corridors. Each Corridor 
may never hold more than 1 Door token. 
Doors tokens do not affect Noise markers.
Doors in each Corridor can have three different statuses: 
Open, Closed or Destroyed. Many things can change their 
status (like Intruder Movement, Events, Actions, etc.).
CLoSED DoorS are marked with a  standing Door token in 
a Corridor.
A Closed Door prevents Characters and Intruders moving through this 
Corridor (Grenade throwing is also affected).
More on the Granade – see Item cards.
When one or more Intruders try to move through a Corridor with a Closed 
Door token, the Intruders do not move, but destroy this Door instead. This 
includes Intruders attempting to move due to the Danger result of 
a Noise roll.
More on Intruder Movement – see page 18; Event Phase, page 13 and Intruder 
Retreat, page 21.
DESTroYED DoorS are marked with a  lying Door token. 
Movement is allowed through this Corridor. A Destroyed Door can never 
be Closed again.
opEN DoorS – to mark that a Door is Open, simply remove the 
Door token from the Corridor. At the beginning of the game, all Corridors 
have Open Doors.
If there are no Door tokens left in the pool when you are instructed to place 
a Door, take any non-Destroyed Door token from the board and place it in the 
required Corridor.
If several Intruders are moving from the same Room, their Movement is 
considered simultaneous: they destroy the Door and all stay in the starting Room.
Doors do not affect Noise markers and resolving Encounters in any way.

ENCouNTEr 
An Encounter is any instance of an Intruder appearing on the board in 
a Room where a Character is present (after drawing an Intruder token 
from the Intruder bag).
First Encounter is a critical gameplay moment because the players have 
to choose one of their Objectives and discard the other.
An Encounter may also be triggered by the Effects of some Event cards or 
Intruder Attack cards.
Note: An Intruder moving from one Room to another Room containing a Character 
does not count as an Encounter.
To resolve an Encounter, follow the steps listed below:
1)  Discard all Noise markers from all the Corridors connected to 
this Room (including Technical Corridors, if there is a  Technical 
Corridors Entrance).
2)  Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag. Each Intruder token 
has an Intruder symbol on one side, and one or two numbers on the 
opposite side. One is used if you are in the Section with Power, other 
if you are in the Section without Power.
More on Night Stalker tokens – see below.
3)  Place an Intruder miniature in the Room. The Intruder type 
must correspond to the Intruder symbol shown on the token. For 
a description of each Intruder symbol, see the Intruder board.
4)  Compare the corresponding number on the Intruder token with 
the number of cards in the player’s hand (Action and Contamination 
cards are counted).
If the number of Action cards in the player’s hand is lower than the 
number on the Intruder token, a Surprise Attack occurs. If the number of 
Action cards is equal to or higher, nothing happens.
Put the drawn Intruder token aside – it may be returned to the bag if an 
Intruder of that type hides (eg. by entering the Technical Corridors during 
the Intruder Movement).
ENCouNTEr AND CoMBAT 
CoMBAT 
Whenever both a Character and an Intruder are in the same Room, they 
are considered to be in Combat. In Combat, a Character may Attack an 
Intruder or Escape during their Action turn. Intruders Attack Characters 
during the Event Phase.
Some Actions cannot be used during Combat – see Combat symbol, page 14.
More on turns – see Player Phase, page 13.
CHArACTEr ATTACKS 
iNTruDEr 
The Character may Attack an Intruder in the same Room 
using a  Shoot Action or a  Melee Attack Action during 
their turn.
More on turns – see page 13; more on Actions – see page 14.
SHooT ACTioN – If a Character is in a Room with an Intruder 
and has an Energy/Classic Weapon with at least 1 Ammo, they may 
perform a Shoot Basic Action against that Intruder:
1)  Choose a Weapon and 1 Intruder you want to Shoot.
2)  Discard 1 Ammo from that Weapon’s card.
3)  Roll the Combat die.
Combat die results:
– You miss your target.
– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your 
target. If not, you miss.
– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal 
1 Injury to your target. If not, you miss.
– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s type).
– Deal 2 Injuries to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s type).
Important: Some Weapons have special rules that may modify the Shooting Action.
More on Weapons – see Objects and Items, page 25.
More on Intruder Injuries and Death – see page 21.
advantage die 
Advantage die is a special type of a Combat die. All effects (eg. Combat die 
rerolls) which mention a Combat die are applicable to the Advantage die. 
When Shooting in a Section with Power, players must use the Advantage die 
instead of a normal one. This die introduces two new results:
– Discard an Action card to deal 1 Injury to your target.
– Deal 1 Injury to your target. Discard an Action card to deal 
2 Injuries instead.
The 
 result does not count as either 
 or 
 for any purposes, 
regardless if a card was discarded or not.
Important: The Advantage die cannot be used while performing a Melee Attack.
ENCOUNTER EXAMPLE
The Survivor is moving from the Elevator Room to the neighboring 
Room. There are 2 Noise markers in the Corridors connected to that 
Room. As always, when entering an empty Room, the Survivor’s 
player must perform a Noise roll. The result is 2 and, since there 
is already a Noise marker there, an Encounter takes place. The 
player removes all Noise markers from the Corridors connected 
to that Room and draws an Intruder token from the Intruder bag. 
It is an Adult Intruder token showing the numbers “2” and “3” 
on its back. Power in this Section is on, so the lower number is 
compared with the number of cards in the player’s hand (including 
any Contamination cards) – only one card in this case.
As the player does not have enough cards, a Surprise Attack takes 
place and an Intruder Attack card is drawn and resolved.
Surprise Attack:
A  Surprise Attack is an Intruder Attack which only occurs during an 
Encounter. If the player has fewer cards in their hand than the number 
printed on the drawn Intruder token, a Surprise Attack takes place.
More on Night Stalker token – see page 20.
BLANK ToKEN 
If a  player draws a  Blank token, place a  Noise marker 
in each Corridor connected to the Room in which this 
Encounter took place.
If the Blank token was the last token in the Intruder 
bag, add 1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag. If there 
are no Adult Intruder tokens available, nothing happens.
Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag.
This Encounter ends.
Note: The Blank token rules are slightly different during the 
Intruder bag development step of the Event Phase.
Entering a room 
with an intruder 
Each time a Character enters a Room occupied by an Intruder, do not 
resolve an Encounter. The Intruder and the Character are immediately 
considered to be in Combat.
Night Stalker tokens
In Nemesis: Lockdown, Intruder tokens now feature 2 numbers on 
their back. These are Night Stalker tokens. Night Stalkers are much 
more deadly in the dark and it will be much harder to protect yourself 
from Surprise Attacks in such situations.They are treated as regular 
Intruder tokens for all other intents and purposes.
When you compare the  number of Action cards in hand with the 
number on the Intruder token, compare:
The first, lower number if the Character is not in Darkness.
The second, higher number if the Character is in Darkness.

 
COMBAT EXAMPLE
The Survivor tries to shoot an Intruder with her Assault Rifle. After 
spending 1 Action card, she discards 1 Ammo from the Weapon 
card and rolls the Combat die. The result is 2 Hits, but the Assault 
Rifle card states that every time you deal at least 1 Injury, deal 
1 additional Injury. Overall, 3 Injury markers are placed on the 
Intruder miniature.
After placing the Injury markers, the Injury Effect is checked 
(representing the Intruder’s endurance). 1 Night Stalker Attack card 
is drawn and only the number in the “blood” symbol is considered 
and compared to the number of Injury markers on the Intruder. As 
it is higher, the Intruder is fine.
ESCAPE EXAMPLE
After dealing an Injury to the Intruder, the Survivor decides to 
Escape. The player spends an Action card (Movement Cost), and 
decides to move to the Elevator Room.
As Intruders Attack any Character trying to Escape, an Intruder Attack 
card is drawn. It is a Blood Chase card, with the Creeper symbol: 
the Attack hits the Survivor, dealing her a Serious Wound. Bitten and 
seriously wounded, the Survivor moves to the Elevator Room.
MELEE ATTACK ACTioN – If a Character is in a Room 
with an Intruder, they may perform a Basic Melee Attack Action against 
that Intruder:
1)  Draw 1 Contamination card and add it to your Action discard pile.
2)  Choose 1 Intruder you want to Attack.
3)  Roll the Combat die.
Combat die results:
– You miss your target and your Character suffers 1 Serious 
Wound.
– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your target. 
If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 Serious Wound.
– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal 1 Injury 
to your target. If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 
Serious Wound.
– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s type).
– Deal 1 Injury (yes, only 1!) to your target (regardless of the 
Intruder’s type).
More on Intruder Injuries and Death – see page 21.
More on Serious Wounds – see page 23.
<<< Encounter, combat and wounds >>>
CHArACTEr ESCApE 
A Character may also try to Escape from Combat by performing a Basic 
Movement Action to go to a neighboring Room (explored or unexplored). 
Before you move your miniature, resolve an Intruder Attack.
More on Intruder Attack – see page 22.
If there is more than 1 Intruder in the Room you are trying to Escape from, 
resolve a separate Intruder Attack for each Intruder. 
If your Character survives, you end your Movement in the neighboring 
If it was an unexplored Room, Explore it according to the standard rules. 
If you die, place a  Character Corpse token in the Room you tried to 
Escape from.
Important: If the Character Escapes to a Room without any other Characters or 
Intruders, perform a Noise roll just like after a standard move.
Note: Some Actions, other than the Basic Movement Action, allow a Character 
to Escape, but additionally modify this rule – for example, Distraction (see the 
Action cards).
iNTruDEr iNjuriES 
AND DEATH 
“Blood” symbol
Intruder Carcass token
When an Intruder suffers Injuries (for example as a result of a successful 
Character Attack or from Fire), place the corresponding number of Injury 
markers on its base.
Then, check the Injury Effect:
Larva and Egg – 1 Injury is enough to kill them. Remove their 
miniature from the board.
Creeper or Adult Intruder – draw 1 Intruder Attack card, ignore 
everything on this card except the “blood” symbol in the upper left 
corner of the card.
If the number in the “blood” symbol of the card is equal to or lower 
than the current number of Injury markers on this Intruder, it is killed 
– remove its miniature and place 1 Intruder Carcass token in the Room 
where it was slain (indicating an Intruder Carcass Object). 
Otherwise, the Intruder is still alive.
Breeder or Queen – draw 2 Intruder Attack cards, add the value 
of their “blood” symbols, and compare the total to the current number 
of Injury markers on this Intruder. Resolve the result using the same 
method as above for the Creeper and the Adult Intruder.
Note: The “blood” symbol represents the current endurance of the Intruder. This 
value may vary for a given individual, depending on the cards drawn after each 
successful Attack. A new card is drawn after each successful Attack, not just 
once per turn.
 
Retreat symbol
intruder retreat 
Intruders might seem savage, but they are 
not mindless. They can run away if they suffer 
too many Wounds, or if someone is lucky enough 
to damage one of their vulnerable parts.
During the Injury Effect check, if there is a Retreat arrow in the “blood” 
symbol of any of the drawn Intruder Attack cards, then this Intruder flees.
Draw an Event card and move the Intruder through the Corridor whose 
number appears in the Intruder Movement section of the card. Then, 
discard that Event card.
Any Injury markers assigned to the retreating Intruder remain with that 
Intruder. However, should an Intruder Retreat to a Technical Corridor, 
remove those Wounds when you remove the miniature.
The Queen and the Breeders will Retreat if any of the 2 Intruder Attack cards 
drawn displays the Retreat symbol.
More on Event cards – see page 13.
Desperate times call for desperate measures. 
A  metal pipe, a  heavy tool, a  rifle butt, 
anything can become an improvised Weapon 
in a  hopeless situation. Close Combat works 
like Shooting, but the risks are far greater. 
If the Attack fails to hit, then the Character 
immediately 
suffers 
a 
Serious 
Wound, 
 
in addition to the risk of being contaminated.

<<< Encounter, combat and wounds >>>
iNTruDEr ATTACK 
Intruder Attacks happen in three cases:
Surprise Attack 
More on Surprise Attack – see Encounter, page 20.
Intruder Attack step in the Event Phase 
More on Intruder Attack step – see Event Phase, page 13.
Character’s Escape
More on Escape – see page 21.
Each Intruder Attack follows the steps below:
1)  Choose the Character who is the target of this Intruder Attack. The 
Intruder may only Attack a Character in the same Room. If there is 
more than one Character in the Room, Intruders always Attack the 
Character whose player has the fewest Action cards in their hand. In 
the event of a tie, the Character with the First Player token (or the next 
player in turn order) is Attacked.
In case of a Surprise Attack, the Character targeted is the one who 
triggered the Encounter.
In case of an Escape, the Character targeted is the one who is 
performing the Escape Action.
2)  Draw and resolve 1 Intruder Attack card:
If the card displays an Intruder symbol matching the Attacking 
Intruder, resolve the Effect described on the card. 
Some Intruder Attack cards have an additional effect resolved only 
in Sections without Power. These effects are marked with a special 
Darkness layout. The Intruder symbol still has to match though.
If the card does not display an Intruder symbol matching the 
Attacking Intruder, the attack misses.
Explanation of Intruder symbols – see the Laboratory board.
Important: During an Intruder Attack, ignore the “blood” symbol in the upper left 
corner of the Intruder Attack card. 
After resolving an Intruder Attack card, it is placed in the Intruder discard 
pile. If you run out of cards in the Intruder Attack deck, take its discard 
pile and reshuffle it. It becomes the new Intruder Attack deck.
EXAMPLE OF AN INTRUDER ATTACK CARD
Cut
The Character suffers 1 Light Wound 
and gets 1 Contamination card.
The Character suffers 
1 additional Light Wound.
1) Intruder endurance. Only used when checking if an Intruder dies 
after receiving one or more Injury tokens.
2) Intruder symbols. They show all the different types of Intruders 
that can use this Attack. When a card is drawn during an Intruder 
Attack (either during an Encounter or the Event Phase), if one of 
its symbols matches the Attacking Intruder type, then the Attack 
Effect of the card is resolved.
3) Intruder Attack Effect. In this example, the targeted Character 
suffers 1 Light Wound and gets 1 Contamination card. If in Darkness, 
the Character suffers 1 additional Light Wound.
iNFEST 
If the Intruder Attack is performed by a Larva, do not draw any Intruder 
Attack cards. Apply the following instead:
Remove the Larva miniature from the board. Then, if the Character 
being Attacked doesn’t have a Larva on their Character board, place 
one there.
The targeted player gets 1 Contamination card.
More on Contamination cards – see below.
CoNTAMiNATioN 
CArDS
In addition to Wounds, Characters may get Contamination cards (for 
example, as the result of some Intruder Attacks).
When a Character gets a Contamination card (regardless of the source), 
draw it from the Contamination deck and place it on top of their Action 
discard pile.
Contamination cards are a disadvantage for the player, because they 
are kept in hand like a normal Action card, but they do not provide any 
additional Actions and you cannot spend them to pay the Costs of the 
other Actions. They may still be discarded when passing.
Each Contamination card contains hidden information: the Character 
who possesses them may be INFECTED or not. This information is hidden 
by colorful patterns in the text field. Unless the card is Scanned, this 
information remains unknown to the player until the end of the game. If 
the Character does not Scan their Contamination cards before the end 
of the game, the player may lose the game due to a surprise infection.
Note: Some Event cards may force a player to Scan their Contamination cards.
More on Victory Check – see Player Goals and End of the Game, pages 10 and 12.
SCANNiNG AND rEMoviNG 
CoNTAMiNATioN CArDS 
A Character may try to get rid of their Contamination cards through several 
different ways (like the Rest Action card, the Decon Room, the Surgery Room 
Action and the Antiseptic Item Action).
Each card / Room description details the procedure to follow. Most of the 
procedures require a Scan of the Contamination cards. Scan is performed 
in the following way:
SCANNING CONTAMINATION CARDS EXAMPLE
The Janitor decides to perform a Rest Action, which requires him 
to Scan his Contamination card. He places the Scanner on his 
Contamination card and discovers that he is INFECTED!
He takes the Contamination card back into his hand, and a Larva 
miniature is placed on his Character board, indicating that the 
Janitor has been infected by an Intruder at some point during 
the game.
The Janitor’s player must quickly find a way to get rid of this parasite. 
The best ways would be a Surgery Room Action or a Neutralizer Item.
Take the Scanner and place its red foil part over the coded field of the 
Contamination card you are Scanning. In one of the lines of text, the word 
INFECTED may appear. If not, the card is NOT INFECTED.
Note: Look closely at the cards, because some of the coded words may look 
similar to INFECTED.
In both of these cases, any additional Scanning Effect is explained in the 
description of the given Action card, Room Action or Item Action.
More on Room Actions – see Room sheet, pages 27–29..
If you are INFECTED, place a Larva miniature on your Character board 
(and do not remove this Contamination card!).
If there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character dies – 
additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died. 
If any rule asks you to remove a Contamination card, place this card on 
the bottom of the Contamination deck.
As the old saying goes, if it bleeds, we can kill it. 
But what if we can’t be sure whether the fluid 
coming out of the alien wretch is, in fact, blood? 
Either way, it’s helpful to know that Shooting 
the Intruders hurts them. The problem is, you can 
never be sure how bad their condition is and if 
you can kill them before your Ammo runs out...
Despite 
the 
Nemesis 
crew 
members’ 
past 
experience with Intruders, players cannot be 
sure how much damage is needed to kill one! 
 

CHArACTEr WouNDS 
AND DEATH 
During the game, Characters may suffer two types of Wounds: Light 
and Serious.
Light Wounds
Wounds are recorded using the Light Wound 
track on a player’s Character board.
When a Character suffers a Light Wound, if there 
isn’t a Status marker on their Wound track, place 
one in the upper slot. 
Should the Character take another Light Wound, 
move the marker down the track. If the marker 
reaches the third position, discard the marker and 
the Character suffers a Serious Wound.
Light Wounds are dealt and resolved one-by-one.
Serious Wound
When a Character suffers a Serious Wound, draw 
1 Serious Wound card and place it face up next 
to the Character board. From now on, the player 
is affected by the Effect described on that card. 
Each type of Serious Wound has a different Effect, 
described on its card.
Important: If a Character has several copies of identical Serious Wound cards, 
their Effects are not cumulative. It will be more difficult to get rid of their Effects, 
though.
When a Character with 3 Serious Wounds suffers any additional 
Wound (Light or Serious), they are instantly killed.
When a Character dies, remove their miniature from the board and place 
a Character Corpse token in the Room where they died – from now on, 
it is considered a Character Corpse Object.
When a Character dies, they drop all their Heavy Objects in the Room 
where they died. All other Items are removed from the game.
More on Heavy Items and Objects – see page 25.
DrESSiNG AND HEALiNG WouND 
During the game, a player may Dress and Heal their Wounds in many ways 
(using Clothes, Medical Stapler, Medkit Item cards or the Emergency Room 
Action). Each relevant Item card or Room Action details the Wound treatment.
Dress Serious Wound – Flip a Serious Wound card 
affecting the Character to its backside. From now on, its Effect is ignored, 
but it still counts against the limit of 3 Serious Wounds.
Heal – Either remove (in case of a Light Wound) or discard (in 
case of a Dressed Serious Wound card) the Wound mentioned in the 
Action Effect.
More on Item cards – see Objects and Items, page 25.
1 LIGHT WOUND
SERIOUS WOUND 
CARD
2 LIGHT WOUNDS
Knowledge 
and Weaknesses 
Knowledge 
Gaining Knowledge represents that Characters discover more about the new 
Intruder species and how best to fight them. Certain Knowledge levels give 
Characters access to broader options from the Action cards or Items – for 
example, the Pheromones Action card or Reagent Item card.
Characters gain Knowledge when performing the following Actions:
Analysing a Weakness in the Laboratory Room or using the Analyze 
Toolset – the Character gains 3 Knowledge. Discard the object used. 
Knowledge is gained regardless if a Weakness was discovered by using 
a Room, or an Item.
Using a specific Computer Action – the Character gains 1 Knowledge.
Discovering the Nest – the Character gains 1 Knowledge.
Using the Archive Room Action – the Character Activates their Knowledge 
token and gains 2 Knowledge.
Using some specific Items or Actions – the Character gains Knowledge 
described on the given effect.
More on Action cards – see Actions, page 14.
More on Items – see Objects and Items, page 25.
Knowledge token Activation 
Characters in the Archive can use its Room Action to Activate their 
Knowledge token and gain 2 Knowledge. Activating a Knowledge token is 
marked by flipping it to the other side.
An Active Knowledge token means that the Character is unable to use the 
Archive Room Action again. It is also required by some Objectives in the game.
Inactive 
Knowledge token
Active 
Knowledge token
More on Archive – see Room sheet, page 27.
Weakness 
During game setup, 3 random Weakness cards were placed on the Intruder 
Weakness slots on the Intruder board. During the game, you will have the 
possibility to discover and exploit these 3 Weaknesses. This represents the 
crew gradually gaining insight into the lifeform that infests the Facility.
The first Weakness card starts the game already discovered.
To discover a Weakness card, any Character must research one of the 
available Objects (Character Corpse, Intruder Carcass or Egg) in the 
Laboratory Room.
More on Research in the Laboratory – see Room sheet, page 27.
More on Objects – see Objects and Items, page 25.
After researching an Object, place the researched Object in the first empty 
slot on the Intruder board and reveal the Weakness card below it.
Discovered Weakness cards modify the basic rules of the Intruders, giving 
a  small advantage against them, but only for Characters with certain 
Knowledge levels (3, 5 and 8). Unless a Character possesses these levels, 
Weaknesses cannot be exploited by that Character. 
Note: Two Characters (Lab Rat and Survivor) start the game possessing 3 Knowledge, 
so they can use the effect of the first Weakness card from the beginning of the game.
Even though Characters cannot discover Weaknesses using the same type 
of Object multiple times, they still can Analyze the same type of Object any 
number of times to gain Knowledge.
Important: In Nemesis: Lockdown, Heavy Objects are used up when researched. 
They should be discarded immediately, regardless of the source of the effect.
DISCOVERING WEAKNESS EXAMPLE
The Survivor used the Laboratory Room Action to discover 
a  Weakness using an Intruder Egg. This means that the last 
Weakness can only be discovered by using an Intruder Carcass or 
a Character Corpse Object.

Inactive 
Time token
Active 
Time token
Most parts of the Facility starts the game Powered, but the Power is depleting 
rapidly – this is represented by the red side of the Time token indicating that 
the Backup Power is not working yet.
Section 
without Power 
Section 
with Power 
A Facility Section is considered to have Power when its Power token is on 
the blue side. Sections with Power have 4 additional rules:
1)  Players must use the Advantage Combat die when performing 
a Shoot Action.
2)  Players may use the special Computer Actions in the Rooms with 
a Computer symbol.
3)  Characters in the given Section are considered to be not in Darkness 
for any game effects.
4)  Noise markers in that Section will be removed during the Event Phase.
More on Advantage die – see page 20.
More on Computer Actions – see Actions, page 15.
More on Darkness – see below.
Darkness 
As long as Characters stay in Sections without Power, they are considered 
to be in Darkness. It means that all game effects which happen in Darkness 
affect them.
Darkness effects may be found on Event cards (like Lurking), Intruder Attack cards 
(like Cut), Intruder tokens, etc.
Note: When the game allows you to ignore the Darkness effect, you may ignore any 
of the effects menioned above related to Darkness.
Night Stalker tokens 
During an Encounter, Characters in Darkness always resolve 
the higher value of the drawn Intruder token.
More on Night Stalkers tokens – see page 24.
restoring power 
In the S-03 Section, there is a Backup Power Supply Room, which can be 
used to restore Power to the Facility. It won’t hold for long, but it may be just 
enough to complete one’s Objectives and successfully Evacuate. 
The Backup Power Supply Room has three functions: 1) it brings Power to 
some Facility Sections, 2) it allows Power tokens to be rearranged in the 
Facility and 3) it slows down the process of the Facility going completely dark.
Additional Power can be added using the Power Generator Room.
More on Backup Power Supply and Power Generator Rooms – see Room sheet, 
pages 27 and 29.
power Thresholds 
Power Thresholds are printed on the board, on the Time track. They denote 
the moments when the Power capacity of the Facility is going to drop.
There are two types of Power Thresholds:
Red Thresholds reduce the Power only if the Backup Power is not 
activated (the Time token is on the red side).
Blue Thresholds always reduce the Power.
Note: Blue Thresholds work independently from the Backup Power state. That means 
the Power capacity drops significantly slower when the Backup Power is active.
DARKNESS EFFECT EXAMPLE
The Survivor resolves an Encounter and draws an Intruder token 
in the Section without Power. She may use a Flashlight Item to 
resolve the lower value on the token.
More on Night Stalker tokens – see page 24.
Each time the Time token crosses any Threshold, check if the Threshold 
activates. This token, when on the red side, activates when it crosses any 
Threshold. When it is on the blue side, it activates only when it crosses 
a Threshold with two Time token symbols – i.e. if the Time token is on the 
blue side and crosses a red Threshold, it does not activate. 
If it does activate, the Power in the Facility depletes – flip the active Power 
token with the highest number to its inactive (red) side.
Note: Some effects of Action cards (like Bypass) or Event cards (like Power Surge) 
may turn on or off additional Power and even flip the Time token!

Using the appropriate Items at the right time can mean the difference 
between life and death. Items can be obtained in a few different ways:
Most Characters start the game with 1 dedicated Item card.
Each Character starts the game with 1 Quest Item card. This card is 
placed face down on its horizontal side. Once its requirements are 
fulfilled, the card is flipped face up on its vertical side and becomes 
a normal Item card.
A Character may also find various Items in Rooms, using the Search 
Action card.
More on Search Action – see Searching, page 26.
A Character may also create special Crafted Items by assembling 
other Items in their possession using the Craft Basic Action.
More on Craft Action – see Crafting, page 26.
Characters may also discover Heavy Objects during the game (Character 
Corpse, Intruder Carcass and Eggs), which are not represented by cards 
but by special tokens or miniatures. They can be carried around by the 
Characters. These Objects are used at specific times – when an Action card, 
Room Action or Event calls for it (for example, the Laboratory Room Action).
Important: Some Items are marked as One Use Only. After using such an Item, 
its card is discarded.
Whenever an Item card is discarded after use, place it in a  face-up 
discard pile. When an Item card is discarded without being used (such 
as with the Search Action), place it face down at the bottom of its deck.
CHArACTEr HANDS 
AND iNvENTorY 
There are two types of Item cards: Heavy Items (kept in the Character’s 
Hands) and normal Items (kept in the Inventory). 
Characters may also carry Object tokens. All Object tokens are 
Heavy Objects.
iNvENTorY 
All normal Items may be kept secret from the other players – put them 
in your Inventory (plastic card holder), so other players can only see the 
card backs and their colors. However, when any Item card is used, it 
must be revealed to all the other players. There is no limit to the number 
of Items that can be placed in your Inventory.
Hand symbol 
AND HEAvY iTEMS 
and oBjECTS 
Heavy Items (as Weapons) are indicated by the Hand symbol. They 
can never be kept secret from the other players and cannot be put in 
the Inventory.
When you find / gain a Heavy Item (or pick up a Heavy Object) you want 
to keep, it must be placed in one of the two Hand slots of the Character. 
A Character may carry up to 2 Heavy Items / Objects.
More on Hand slots – see Character boards.
If both of the Character’s Hand slots are already filled and you want to 
take another Heavy Item / Object, you must Drop 1 of the carried Heavy 
Items / Objects.
More on Drop – see below.
Each Weapon acquired during the game comes into play loaded with an 
exact amount of Ammo tokens. Two numbers determine any Weapon’s 
Ammo capacity – the first number indicates the starting value and the 
second – its maximum Ammo capacity.
Sometimes, you can Add an Item card to another Item card. The added Item is 
placed next to the indicated Item card. From now on, both cards are treated as one.
Important: The Duct Tape Item card allows you to combine 2 Heavy Items, so 
they take up only 1 Hand slot – but it doesn’t apply to Objects!
Important: A  Weapon can never exceed its Ammo capacity, shown on the 
Weapon card.
Heavy Items are Item cards showing the Hand symbol.
Heavy Objects are tokens: Intruder Eggs (most often found in the Nest Room), 
Character Corpse (the Character Corpse token, representing a dead Character), 
Intruder Carcass (a Carcass token is placed after the death of any Intruder with 
the exception of Larvae).
EXAMPLE OF AN ITEM CARD
MEDKIT
Heal 1 Dressed Serious Wound.
1) Blue Component symbol. This means that this card can be used 
during a Craft Action as a Component for the Neutralizer.
2) Combat symbol. This symbol indicates that Medkit cannot be 
used during Combat.
3) One Use Only. As indicated by the yellow text, Medkit is 
discarded after use. After performing the Medkit Item Action, the 
card is discarded to the appropriate discard pile.
4) Action Cost. You must discard 1 Action card to perform this 
Action, in addition to the card itself. 
5) Action Effect. This describes the different outcomes of the Action. 
Some Actions will have you choose between two different outcomes 
(provided their conditions are met). Medkit can be used to either 
dress 1 Serious Wound OR Heal 1 Dressed Serious Wound.
oBjECTS AND iTEMS 
Drop 
A  Character may freely Drop any Item / Object from their Hands / 
Inventory any time during their turn without using an Action. 
Objects remain in the Room where they are dropped.
Items are lost – return them to the bottom of their deck.
This facility is full of useful stuff. Sometimes 
you just have to look around the Room for 
a  few moments. This lightstick might come in 
handy, those Reagents with a  Zippo will do as 
a Flamethrower.

CrAFTiNG 
The fourth (blue) deck of Item cards contains Crafted Items. These Items 
cannot be found by searching the Rooms. They can be assembled with 
a Craft Item Basic Action, using other Items in your possession. 
You may look through the Crafted Item deck at any moment of the game. Cards 
from it are never drawn during the game. Instead, when Crafting an Item, look 
for the corresponding Crafted Item card and take it.
More on the Craft Item Action – see Basic Actions, page 14.
Crafted Item cards display 2 grey Component symbols representing 
the Components required to build this Item.
NEuTrALIZEr
Scan all cards in your 
Action deck, hand and discard pile. 
Remove all INFECTED cards 
(and a Larva if you have one). 
Then, shuffle all your Action cards 
(including those in your hand). 
After that, you must pass.
Taser
Choose 1 Intruder in the Room you 
are in. It suffers 1 Injury and Retreats.
1 chosen Character in the Room 
you are in must discard all cards 
from their hand.
CLASSIC WEAPON
FLAMETHroWEr
AMMO: 4/4 
You always deal at least 1 Injury, 
except on a 
. 
If the Combat roll result is 
, 
place a Fire marker 
in the Room you are in.
ENERGY WEAPON
pistol
AMMO: 3/3 
Unmodified rolls of 
 
are treated as 
.
The Item cards that can be used as Components for Crafted Items display 
a blue Component symbol, representing a specific Component that 
can be used (by discarding the card) to build a Crafted Item.
reagent
Fully load AMMO 
in a Flamethrower.
Knowledge 5: Choose 1 Intruder 
in the Room you are in. It Retreats. 
Analyze 
toolset
Discard 1 Object. 
Discover 1 Intruder Weakness 
and gain 3 Knowledge. 
Scan all Contamination cards 
in your hand. 
Ignore any INFECTED result.
CLoTHES
Discard a Slime marker. 
To build a Crafted Item, you must perform a Craft Item Basic Action 
and discard two Item cards showing the blue Component symbols 
corresponding to the grey Components symbols of the Crafted Item 
you want to build (the first Item card corresponding to the first required 
Component symbol, and the second Item card corresponding to the 
second required Component symbol). You can build five different Crafted 
Items during the game:
 = NEUTRALIZER
 = TASER
 = FLAMETHROWER
 = ENVIRO-SUIT
 = PISTOL
A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have the 
required Components.
More on these 5 Items – see Item cards.
SEARCH EXAMPLE
The Survivor performs a Search Action in the Archive. She discards 
a Search Action card and decreases the Item Counter by one. As 
the Archive is a White Room, the Survivor can draw 2 Item cards 
from any one Item deck. She decides to look for Weapons and 
Ammunition and draws from the Red Item deck.
The player decides (in secret from the other players) to keep the 
Weapon Battery and discards (face-down) the Glowstick to the bottom 
of the Red Item deck. The Weapon Battery is placed into the Survivor’s 
Inventory, showing only the back of the card to the other players.
SEArCHiNG 
Apart from the Character-dedicated Items, there are 4 colors of Items 
in the game: 
Red (Military)
Yellow (Technical)
Green (Medical)
Blue (Crafted)
Three of these decks (red, yellow, green) contain Items which can be 
found in Rooms when using a Search Action.
More on Search Action – see Search Action card in the Action decks.
The color of any Item found during a Search Action should match the color 
of the searched Room (yellow Items in yellow Room, etc.). A Room’s color 
is the background color under its name and rule text. When searching in 
a white Room, the player can choose to draw from any 1 of these 3 decks. 
Each time a Character performs a Search Action in a Room, the Item 
Counter of that Room is reduced by 1. When the Item Counter reaches 0, 
the Room has been emptied and cannot be searched anymore.
More on Item Counter – see Exploration tokens, page 17.
quest items 
Quest Items are NOT available for you to use from the start. Each of them 
has a special condition you must meet to unlock this Item during the 
game (specified on the horizontal side of their cards).
When you manage to activate a Quest Item, you can flip it and treat it 
as a standard Item (it can occupy a Hand slot, might be discarded, given 
away, etc.)
<<< objects and items >>>
Attacking players
Years 
of 
accumulated 
knowledge 
of 
space subjugation suggest that placing 
a  small group of people placed in a  hostile 
underground environment for an extended 
period 
generates 
undesirable 
tensions. 
To prevent serious conflict among facility 
workers, space corporations spend billions of 
dollars equipping their crews with implants 
which create a  strong psychic barrier and 
inhibit direct violence against homo sapiens. 
This is why neither facility workers nor crew 
members can directly attack one another.
Characters cannot directly Attack other Characters, but they may 
(accidentally or intentionally) harm other Characters as a side effect 
of their actions. Trapping someone in a Room on fire, activating the 
Autodestruction sequence3 with people still on board, throwing 
a Thermite Charge at an Intruder in a Room with other Characters, are 
just a few of the many possibilities…
 

To perform any Room Action, a Character must be in the corresponding 
Room (unless they possess a special ability clearly saying otherwise).
You cannot perform a Room Action when you are in Combat.
You cannot perform a Room Action in a Room with a Malfunction marker.
rooms with a computer 
Some Rooms have a  Computer symbol, meaning that 
there is a Computer in that Room. A Computer symbol 
enables you to perform a Computer Action.
If there is a Malfunction marker in the Room, the Computer 
is unavailable – as if there were no Computer symbol.
More on Computer Actions – see page 15.
BASiC rooMS "i" 
All the 10 Basic Rooms, indicated by the number “I” on their back, are 
present in each game.
Examine the Archives
EXAMINE THE ARCHivES: 
You may perform this Action only if your 
Knowledge token is inactive.
Gain 2 Knowledge and flip your Knowledge token to the 
active side.
Then, peek at any Contingency token (even outside of 
your Section).
Important: Remember you can never peek at the Active 
Contingency token.
More on Knowledge tokens – see Knowledge, page 23.
More on Contingency peek – see Acquiring Information, page 11.
Move through Technical 
Corridors: 
You may move to a  chosen explored Room 
with a Technical Corridors Entrance. Draw and resolve an 
Attack card (treat it as an Attack from an Adult Intruder 
in Darkness).
Cooling 
System
Initiate 
Autodestruction Sequence
Cooling System
initiate Autodestruction 
Take the Autodestruction token and place it 
3 slots forward on the Time track (there should be 2 empty 
slots between the Time token and Autodestruction token). 
Place it with the yellow side up.
Note: As long as the yellow side of the Autodestruction token is 
visible, players may stop the sequence in the Power Generator.
a Decontamination 
Procedure
perform Decontamination 
Scan all Contamination cards in your hand. 
Remove all INFECTED cards. If you have a Larva on your 
Character board, remove it.
If you have a  Slime marker on your Character Board, 
discard it.
Emergency room
Treat your wounds: 
Dress all your Serious Wounds OR Heal 1 of 
your Dressed Serious Wounds OR Heal all your 
Light Wounds.
More on Dressing and Healing Wounds – see page 23.
Analyze 1 Object
ANALYZE 1 object: 
This Action may only be performed if one of the 
following Objects is in the Room (for example 
carried by the Character): Intruder Carcass, Character 
Corpse or Egg.
Gain 3 Knowledge.
The Object is placed in the first empty slot on the 
Laboratory board after Research. Then, the Intruder 
Weakness card below the Object is discovered.
If the Object was previously used to discover a Weakness, 
discard it instead of placing it on the Laboratory board.
More on Objects and Intruder Weakness cards – see Weakness, 
page 23.
System a
Enter the CSS Pod A
Cargo Sending System A
Enter CSS pod:
You may only use this Action if the Time token is 
in the same slot as any of the CSS tokens, and 
the CSS Pod space “A” is empty.
After Entering, you discard all cards and automatically 
pass. Place your Character in the corresponding CSS 
Pod space on the board. In the Event phase, your Character 
will have a chance to escape using this CSS Pod. 
Characters in the CSS Pod space are unaffected by any 
game effects unless specified otherwise.
If your Character does not manage to escape using the 
CSS Pod, they suffer 1 Serious Wound.
More on Cargo Sending System and CSS Pods – see Leaving 
the Facility, page 11.
Nest
The Character who explored this Room, gains 1 Knowledge. 
This is a one-time effect.
Take one Egg:
Take 1 Egg token from the Intruder board. After 
that, perform a Noise roll.
The Egg tokens placed on the Laboratory board represent 
the Eggs in the Nest. When you take (or destroy) Eggs 
from the Nest, take them from the Laboratory board.
When there are no more Eggs in the Nest (they have all 
been carried away or destroyed), the Nest is considered 
destroyed – place 1 Injury marker in the Nest to 
represent this.
If there is a Fire marker in a Room containing uncarried 
Eggs, destroy 1 uncarried Egg during the Fire Damage 
step of the Event Phase.
A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Nest.
Note: Remember that an Egg is a Heavy Object – see Objects 
and Items, page 25.
Note: You cannot perform any Search Action in this Room.
DestroYiNG Eggs: 
Whenever your Character is in a Room with any uncarried 
Eggs (not carried by any Character), you can try to destroy 
these Eggs.
Resolve this Action just as a Shoot Action or Melee Attack 
Action. Each Injury (of any type) destroys 1 Egg. You do 
not have to meet the requirement of a Character being 
“in Combat” for these Actions.
In the case of a Melee Attack Action, the Character does 
not draw a Contamination card or suffer Wounds if they 
miss. 
After every single attempt to destroy an Egg, you must 
perform a Noise roll.
Generator
Stop Autodestruction Sequence 
Power a Section
power Generator
Stop Autodestruction 
If there is the Autodestruction token with yellow 
side up on the Time track, discard it.
power a Section:
Flip the Power token of the Section you are in. 
This can be used to get more Power even if 
the Power was not restored (i.e. the Time token is on the 
inactive side).
rooM SHEET 

Transmitter 
Control room
Send a Signal 
Check an Objective
transmitter Control 
Send a Signal:
Place a Status marker on the Signal space on 
your Character board.
Note: Sending a Signal is a requirement for some Objectives, as 
well as a requirement for one of the Contingencies.
Check an objective:
Choose a Character with a Status marker on 
the Signal space on their Character board. They 
have to show you their Objective in secret.
Note: If the chosen player has more than one Objective, they 
need to show you all of them.
ADDiTioNAL rooMS "ii"
Each game, only 6 randomly chosen Additional Rooms are used, out of the 
9 available. These Rooms are indicated by the number “II” on their back. 
Enter the CSS Pod B
CSS B.
System C
Enter the CSS Pod C
System c
CSS C.
css control 
CSS Control System
Peek at a chosen CSS token. You may move it 
one slot in any direction on the Time track (even if 
there is no CSS token slot there).
You cannot move a CSS token that is on the same slot as 
the Time token.
You cannot move a CSS token into a slot with another 
CSS token.
Defense Control room
Exterminate the Threat: 
Reduce the Item Counter by 1 or place 
a  Malfunction marker in this Room. Choose 
a  Room without a  Malfunction marker and with an 
Intruder. Place a  Malfunction marker in that Room. All 
Intruders in that Room suffer 1 Injury and each Character 
in that Room suffers 1 Serious Wound.
Take Equipment
Take Equipment: 
Reduce the Item Counter by 1 and take the 
Taser Crafted Item or Enviro-Suit Crafted Item.
Contaminated 
Gain Slime 
when Searching
Contaminated room
Gain Slime when Searching: 
Whenever you use a  Search Action in this Room, get 
a Slime marker.
A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Contaminated 
perform a Surgical 
Scan all Contamination cards (from your Action 
deck, hand and discard). Remove all Infected cards.
If you have a Larva on your Character board, remove it.
After Scanning, your Character suffers 1 Light Wound 
and you automatically pass. Shuffle all your Action cards 
(including those in your hand and discard pile) and place 
them in your Action deck.
Note: After a Surgical procedure you always pass your round, 
and your hand is empty until the start of the next round.
Take Neutralizer:
If your Character has at least 4 Knowledge, take 
the Neutralizer Crafted Item.
vent Control room
vent out:
Choose a  Room with a  Technical Corridors 
Entrance. The Corridors connected to the Room 
you choose must not contain any Destroyed Doors. Close 
the Doors in each Corridor connected to the chosen Room. 
Remove a Fire marker from that Room (if there is any) 
and place the Venting token there to represent the active 
emergency Venting out.
If any of the Doors in Corridors connected to that Room 
are Opened or Destroyed before the current Player Phase 
ends, remove this token immediately.
If the token remains in the Room at the end of the current 
Player Phase (after all players have passed), everything 
in that Room dies immediately (both Characters and 
Intruders). Then, discard this token.
 

SpECiAL rooMS 
Special Rooms always occupy the same place on the board. These Rooms 
have their own rules – some of them have specific shapes and are printed 
on the board.
Special Rooms are treated as normal Rooms, except that they are explored at 
the beginning of the game and Characters cannot perform any Search Action 
in these Rooms. They can receive Fire or Malfunction markers normally.
Alert room
Start the Alert procedure: 
Divide the number on which the Time token 
is on by 2 (rounding down). Place the Alert 
Procedure token on this slot of the Time track. The game 
ends instantly when the Time token leaves the slot 
containing the Alert Procedure token.
After activating the Alert Room, the Isolation Room 
opens immediately; from now on, Characters may lock 
themselves there, even if the Time token is not on any 
white slot of the Time track.
More on Isolation Room – see below.
pEEK AT CoNTiNGENCY:
Peek at 1 Contingency token from the Neutral 
Pool and obtain this token.
More on Contingency peek – see Acquiring Information, page 11.
Backup 
power Supply
Restore Power
Backup power Supply
restore power: 
When a Character restores Power to the Facility, 
resolve all of the following:
1. Reset the Power – Do not perform this step if 3 or 
more Power tokens are on the active side. The 2 lowest-
numbered Power tokens must be flipped to the blue side. 
All the other Power tokens are flipped to the red side. 
2. Rearrange Power tokens – Simply take all Power 
tokens and place them in chosen Sections as you wish. 
Do not flip them.
Additionally, if the Time token is inactive:
3. Flip over the Time token to its active side, showing that 
the Power has been restored.
More on Time token and Thresholds – see Event Phase, 
page 13 and Power, page 24.
Elevator room S-01
If the Elevator has Power and the Character is not in 
Combat, they may:
Call the Elevator: 
Take the Elevator token and place it next to the 
Elevator Room in your Section.
If the Elevator has Power, there is an Elevator token next 
to this Room and Character is not in Combat, they may:
use the Elevator:
Take your Character and the Elevator token. 
Place them next to the Elevator Room in another 
Section. You may choose to take any other Characters 
from the Room you are in with you, only if they agree. Do 
NOT perform a Noise roll afterwards.
Elevator room S-02
As above, but applies to the Elevator Room S-02.
Elevator room S-03
As above, but applies to the Elevator Room S-03.
Emergency Staircases
They are not in any of the Sections. They are always 
considered to be in Darkness and should be treated as 
Black Rooms with no Action.
Craft Equipment: 
Characters in this Room may perform the Craft 
Item Basic Action. If they do, they may discard 
one fewer Item card to build an Item.
Only one of two Items with a  matching Component symbol 
is needed.
 
Lock yourself
When your Character is in this Room at the start of a new 
round, draw 1 additional Action card (up to 6 instead of 5).
The Passive feature of this Room does not work if there is 
a Malfunction token in the Room.
Note: This effect takes place even at the start of the game.
Lock yourself in:
You may perform this Action only if the Isolation 
Room is open – the token on the Time track is 
on any white slot OR the Alert Procedure token is on the 
Time track.
Perform a  Noise roll. If any Intruder appears in this 
Room, your attempt at locking yourself in the Isolation 
Room fails.
If no Intruder appears, remove your Character miniature 
from the game. You managed to lock yourself in safely. 
From now on, you do not take part in the game any longer. 
Whether your Character survives or dies along with the 
Facility will be determined at the End of the Game.
CHANGE: Other Players still can initiate the Autodestruction 
sequence when a  Character is already locked in the 
Isolation Room.

Game Modes 
Solo & Cooperative 
mode 
Solo Mode 
While Nemesis shines as a semi-cooperative game, you can also try to 
survive alone.
This mode has its own special Objectives deck – Solo / Coop Objectives. At 
the start of the game, draw two cards from this deck, instead of the regular 
Objective cards. After placing the Active Contingency, draw two tokens from 
the Neutral pool instead of one.
Note: Once the first Encounter occurs, you must choose one of these two 
Objective cards.
Important: In this mode, the number of Items available in each Room is reduced by 
half, rounding up (if the Exploration token shows 1–2 Items, set the Item Counter 
to 1, if 3–4, set the Item Counter to 2).
To win, you must fulfill your Objective and survive.
Fully Cooperative Mode 
This additional game mode is intended for players who want to experience 
a fully cooperative version of the game, without having to fear betrayal from 
their companions.
This mode has its own special Objectives deck – Solo / Coop Objectives.
At the start of the game, place 1 Contingency token in the Active Contingency 
slot. The remaining tokens are placed in the Neutral Pool. Draw one of these 
tokens, revealing it to all players. The rest will be revealed during the game. 
Place them next to the first revealed token.
At the start of the game, draw one Solo / Coop card per player, instead of the 
regular Objective cards. These cards are public information.
To win the game, ALL these Objectives must be fulfilled and at least 
1 Character must survive. This means that, e.g. if an Objective is to gain 
8 Knowledge, the Character fulfilling this Objective must be alive after the 
Victory Check.
Note: If there is one card requiring you to send the Signal, only one Character must 
do it. If there are two or more such requirements, that many Characters must send 
the Signal!
revive
In this fully cooperative mode, the Emergency Room is equipped with 
a  specialized AutoDoc device, allowing the crew to revive any near-
death Character.
Whenever a Character dies, another Character might pick up their Corpse 
token and carry it to the working Emergency Room.
A player whose Corpse is in the Emergency Room places their Character 
miniature there at the start of the next round. All their Light Wounds are 
discarded, all their Serious Wounds are Dressed.
Important: The Emergency Room does not work if there’s an Intruder or 
a Malfunction token in it.
playing 
with characters 
from original 
nemesis 
If you have the original Nemesis game, you can use the Characters from 
this game in Nemesis: Lockdown, pitting well-known Characters against 
new threats in a new environment of the Martian Facility. Keep in mind that 
playing with these Nemesis Survivors might be more difficult and a team 
composed of Nemesis Characters only might face a real challenge.
Choosing a Character 
When players choose their Characters, the Character Draft card they select 
allows them to pick either the Lockdown, the base game, or the Aftermath 
Character of a chosen color as described on the Character Draft card.
For example, the red Nemesis Character (the Soldier) can replace the red 
Lockdown Character (the Survivor).
After choosing their Character, each player keeps their selected Draft card, 
preventing any other player from choosing another Character of the same 
color.
The two red Characters (the Survivor and the Soldier) can never be in the 
same game together.
Nemesis Characters are counted as Nemesis Survivors. They always begin 
with 3 Knowledge in the Isolation Room. More about their differences – see 
the details below.
pilot 
Use the Pilot Action deck provided with Nemesis: Lockdown.
The Pilot starts without a Starting Item card.
Use the Pilot Quest Item card provided with Nemesis: Lockdown.
others 
Other Characters (Captain, Scientist, Scout, Soldier and Mechanic) use their 
Action decks provided with the original Nemesis game.
These Characters start without a Starting Item card.
These Characters use their Quest Item cards provided with the Nemesis: 
Lockdown.
Aftermath Characters are explained in the Stretch Goal Rulebook.
 
Alternative side 
of the board 
This alternative board layout may be used in any game mode, but keep 
in mind that it may be more difficult to survive and complete some of 
the Objectives.
overview 
The main feature of this board side is that it depicts the Facility complex 
consisting of an underground base partially built into a  cliff face and 
a couple of buildings on the Mars surface.
While the underground base follows the basic Nemesis rules concerning 
Movement, Noises, etc. the Mars Surface part of the board, Rooms in the 
Buildings on it and Areas follow their own rules.
Setup
During setup, follow the standard rules but use the other side of the board 
and place Surface Exploration tokens for all Crossroads and Rooms in the 
Buildings.
Place the Mars Surface deck next to the board. It is used only in this game 
mode.
Surface Exploration tokens
There are a few new effects on these tokens:
– Draw 1 card from the red Item deck.
 – Draw 1 card from the yellow Item deck.
– Draw 1 card from the green Item deck.
– Draw and resolve 1 card from the Mars Surface deck. After 
resolving the card effect, you still perform a  Noise roll 
(or place a Noise marker) as normal.
When you have to resolve a Malfunction Exploration token 
effect on a Crossroads, nothing happens.
Mars Surface 
The upper part of the board shows a new type of environment in 
the Nemesis games – the surface of the planet Mars. It works a bit 
differently than the rest of the Facility.
Whenever you are on the surface part of the Facility and you perform 
a Noise roll, use the Mars Surface die (d12). 

 
Crossroads & Areas 
Crossroads are a special type of a Room which cannot have a Malfunction 
or a Fire marker. They are connected through Paths. Paths are a special 
type of a number-less Corridor. Intruders may use a Path to move from 
one Crossroads to another due to e.g. a Danger effect. Characters can use 
Paths to move between neighboring Crossroads. Noise markers will never 
be placed on Paths.
Two Crossroads (or a Crossroads and an Exit Room) are connected when 
there is a Path directly between them.
All Crossroads on the Mars Surface are treated as connected to all Areas. 
This means that when you perform a Noise roll on a Crossroads, you have 
to place a Noise marker on the Area with the corresponding number, as you 
would in a Technical Corridor space. 
Areas are the parts of the Mars Surface that surround particular Buildings. 
These are treated as a  special type of Technical Corridors which are 
connected only to their particular Building. Area number 3 is not connected 
to any Buildings. Any effects which mention Technical Corridors (e.g. Vents 
Action card or Cave Entrance Room Action) cannot be applied to Areas.
Moving on the Mars Surface 
There are two ways of moving on the Mars Surface: Rover or on foot, using 
the Movement Action. Characters do not need any additional equipment 
to move on foot on the surface of Mars, as they are assumed to have 
rudimentary protection already. Nonetheless, the Enviro-Suit might prove 
useful, as it provides more protection in case things go wrong.
Alternative side 
of the board description
1)  Mars Surface
2)  Buildings
3)  Areas
4)  Base Exit Rooms
5)  Cargo Sending System A
6)  Underground Base
7)  Repository
8)  Isolation Room
9)  Backup Power Supply
10)  Rover 
11)  Elevator
12)  Computer Action
13)  Main Gate
14)  Neutral Pool
using the rover 
to move around the Mars Surface
If the Rover is in any of the Exit Rooms, a Character in this Exit Room may 
use it (provided they are not in Combat) to move to any other Exit Room in 
the Facility OR to Escape the Facility.
Move your Character and the Rover to any other Exit Room. When 
you use the Rover, you do not perform a Noise roll.
Escaping the Facility using rover
If the Rover is in the Exit Room you are in, simply move the Rover 
with your Character to the Bunker. You managed to Escape the 
Facility safely. Place your Character miniature in the Bunker to 
mark this.
using the Movement Action 
to move around the Mars Surface 
Characters can use the Movement Action to move from an Exit Room 
to a connected Crossroads or between connected Crossroads.
Two Crossroads (or a Crossroads and an Exit Room) are connected when 
there is a Path directly between them.
After placing your Character on a Crossroads, perform the standard steps 
as you would in a normal Movement Action, i.e. reveal a Surface Exploration 
token (if there is one lying on the Crossroads) and resolve it. After that 
perform a NOISE ROLL. If there is an Intruder or other Character on the 
Crossroads, do not perform a NOISE ROLL.
Remember to use the Mars Surface die when you 
perform a Noise roll on the Mars Surface.
NOISE ROLL IN A BUILDING EXAMPLE
The Survivor moved to the Surgery Room. The Surgery Room is 
on the surface part of the Facility, so the NOISE ROLL is performed 
with the Mars Surface die. The result is 1, so a Noise marker (green 
glow) is placed on the Area with the number “1”.
If the Area “1” already contains a Noise marker, an Encounter would 
take place. Luckily for the Survivor, everything is fine… for now.
THE NOISE ROLL ON A CROSSROADS EXAMPLE
This time the Survivor moves on a Crossroads. The result on the 
Mars Surface die is 3, so a Noise marker (green glow) is placed on 
the corresponding Area.

using the intruders 
in games of 
NEMEsis: LoCKDoWN
playing with intruders 
Nemesis: Lockdown allows you to use the Intruders – the race provided 
with the original Nemesis game. Intruders mainly follow basic rules found in 
Nemesis: Lockdown Game Manual with a few changes listed below.
To play with them you need Intruder components provided with the original Nemesis 
game and Nemesis: Lockdown cards and tokens provided in this box. Remove 
from the game Vulnerability to Fire and Susceptibility to Phosphates Intruder 
Weakness cards.
Setup 
9]  Place the Intruders Laboratory board (it’s on the other side of the 
Night Stalkers Laboratory board) next to the board and place the 
following components in the corresponding slots:
 – 5 Egg tokens in the Nest slot,
 – 3 random Intruders Weakness cards, placed face down.
Put all remaining Weakness cards back in the box.
10]  Change Night Stalker tokens with Intruder tokens.
11]  Place the Lockdown Intruders Event deck (instead of the basic 
Intruders Event deck) and Intruders Attack deck next to the board. 
Resolve the rest of this step as stated in the basic rules.
Discovering intruder Weakness
Discovering a  Weakness follows Nemesis: Lockdown rules with the 
exception that a revealed Weakness card is active for all players without the 
need to reach certain Knowledge levels.
Note: In comparison to Night Stalker Weaknesses, the first Intruder Weakness card is 
not discovered. Characters may discover it following the basic Nemesis: Lockdown 
rules.
Mars Surface die & deck 
The Mars Surface die is a special, 12-sided Noise die, used only 
on some parts of the alternative side of the board. All of the 
places, i.e. Crossroads and Corridors in the Buildings, requiring 
the use of this die in Noise rolls are marked appropriately.
Results of 1–4 and Silence are resolved as per normal rules.
Results of Danger, when rolled in a Building, are resolved as per normal 
rules. Keep in mind that the Area surrounding the Building is treated as 
a Technical Corridor connected to all Rooms in that Building.
When rolled on a Crossroads, move all Intruders on the Mars Surface (except 
those in Buildings or in Combat) to the Crossroads with the Character who 
rolled this result. If there are no Intruders eligible to be moved, place a Noise 
marker in each Area that does not have a Noise marker.
There is one new symbol on the Mars Surface die. When you 
roll this result, draw and resolve a Mars Surface card.
The Mars Surface deck is a new deck of cards which describes 
various occurrences which can happen to the Characters when 
roaming about the hostile surface of Mars.
Each card is divided into two parts. The upper part is applied either to all 
Characters currently on the Mars Surface or to the Character who drew the 
card, depending on the text, unless the Character has an Enviro-Suit Item or 
is in a Building. Those Characters apply the bottom part of the card.
EXAMPLE OF A MARS SURFACE CARD
radioactive dust
Your Character gets 
1 Contamination card 
and a Slime marker.
Your Character gets 
1 Contamination card.
1) Title
2) General effect of a Mars Surface card
3) Enviro-Suit effect of a Mars Surface card
Buildings 
Buildings are clusters of Rooms. They work like other Rooms in the Facility, 
with a few exceptions:
 – They provide some protection against the effects of Mars Surface 
cards, as indicated by the Enviro-Suit symbol.
 – Buildings can be accessed through a Room connected by a Path to 
a Crossroads. This Room is called the Exit Room.
 – You can move between Buildings either on foot or using a Rover.
Whenever you have to perform a Noise roll on the Mars Surface and you 
are in a Building, and the result corresponds to this Building’s Area, place 
a Noise marker on that Area as you would in a Corridor.
Escape the Facility Action
In order to Escape the Facility to the Bunker, a Character must 
be on a Crossroads connected by a Path to the Bunker, have an 
Enviro-Suit Item and perform a Noise roll. If any Intruder shows 
up in this Room, your attempt to Escape the Facility fails. If no 
Intruder appears, you may Escape the Facility and move your 
Character to that Bunker. You managed to Escape safely.