g a m e m a n u a l
g a m e b y :
a d a m k wa p i ń s k i
Don't want to read the rules?
W at c h t h e v i d e o : 
w w w . N e m e s i s B G . c o m / le a r n

GAME elements 
1 Two-sided Board
6 Character boards
11 Room tiles “1”
9 Room tiles “2”
Miniatures:
6 Characters 
(Captain, Pilot, Scientist, Scout, Soldier, Mechanic)
6 Larvae
3 Creepers
8 Adult Intruders (4 different sculpts)
2 Breeders
1 Queen
6 Colored plastic rings
5 Plastic card holders
 (Inventories)
2 d6 Attack dice and 2 d10 Noise dice
1 Intruder bag
1 Scanner
1 Intruder board
GAME OVERVIEW & GAME INTRODUCTION
GAME SETUP: STEPS 1-13, BOARD SETUP
GAME SETUP: STEPS 14-20, CREW SETUP
BOARD DESCRIPTION
	
DISCARD PILES
FLOW OF THE GAME 
	
(TURN ORDER, PLAYER PHASE, EVENT PHASE)
PLAYERS GOALS AND END OF THE GAME 
	
VICTORY CHECK
CRITICAL GAMEPLAY MOMENTS
	
OBJECTIVES
	
ACTIONS
	
IN COMBAT ONLY / OUT OF COMBAT ONLY
MOVEMENT AND EXPLORATION TOKENS
	
ROOMS AND CORRIDORS
	
MOVEMENT ACTION
	
EXPLORATION TOKENS
NOISE ROLL
TECHNICAL CORRIDORS
NOISE / SLIME / FIRE MARKERS
	
MALFUNCTION MARKERS, DOOR TOKENS
ENCOUNTER AND COMBAT
CHARACTER ESCAPE
INTRUDER INJURIES AND DEATH
	
INTRUDER RETREAT, INTRUDER ATTACK
	
CONTAMINATION CARDS
CHARACTER WOUNDS AND DEATH
	
INTRUDER WEAKNESS CARDS
OBJECTS AND ITEMS
	
CHARACTER HANDS AND INVENTORY
SEARCHING, CRAFTING & QUEST ITEMS
ROOM SHEET
	
ROOMS WITH A COMPUTER
	
BASIC ROOMS "1"
ADDITIONAL ROOMS "2"
SPECIAL ROOMS
	
ESCAPE PODS
GAME MODES

60 Action cards (10 per Character)
18 Objective cards 
(9 Personal and 9 Corporate)
27 Contamination cards
Note: Although they share a common back 
with the Action cards, they should form 
a separate deck.
20 Intruder Attack cards
16 Serious Wound cards
20 Event cards
5 Help cards
8 Intruder Weakness cards
8 Coordinates cards
30 Green (medical) Item cards
30 Yellow (technical) Item cards
30 Red (military) Item cards
12 Blue (Crafted) Item cards
6 Character Starting Item cards (Weapon)
12 Character Quest Item cards
6 Character Draft cards
Advanced mode
components: 
7 Solo/Coop Objective cards
	
in the basic game! 
10 Intruder Action cards
	
in the basic game! 
other
components: 
1 Cardboard box holder
	
This component is not used in the game. 
10 Promo cards
	
in the game. 
 
Markers and tokens:
2 Room sheets
1 First Player token
18 Status markers
30 Noise markers
12 Doors
4 Escape Pods
20 Exploration tokens
1 Blue Character Corpse token
5 Red Character Corpse tokens
8 Intruder Egg tokens
27 Intruder tokens 
(8 Larvae, 12 Adult Intruders, 
3 Creeper, 2 Breeder, 
1 Queen, 1 Blank)
8 Intruder Carcass tokens
50 Ammo/Injury markers
8 Fire markers
8 Malfunction markers
6 Engine tokens (3 Working, 3 Damaged)
2 Five 
Injury tokens
1 Airlock Procedure token
Cards:
<<< game elements >>>

Game overview
Nemesis is a semi-cooperative game where you 
and your crewmates must survive on a ship in-
fested with hostile organisms.
To win the game, you will have to complete one 
of the two objectives dealt to you at the start of 
the game and get back to Earth in one piece. You 
will find many obstacles on your way: swarms 
of Intruders (the name given to the alien organ-
isms by the ship AI), the poor physical condition 
of the ship, the other players that will have their 
own agendas and, sometimes, just cruel fate.
The gameplay of Nemesis is designed to be full of 
climatic moments which, hopefully, you will find 
rewarding even when your best plans are ruined 
and your character meets a terrible fate.
A WorD FroM THE AuTHor
Five years. Five years have passed since the winter of 2013, when I 
built my first Nemesis prototype. The game you are holding in your 
hands barely looks like its original version. In the years that followed, 
the project evolved and changed on a regular basis – sometimes go-
ing back to its roots, only to drastically alter them some time later. 
The one thing that remained constant was the core concept: recreat-
ing the experience of the claustrophobic, paranoid horror Sci-fi clas-
sics as closely as possible. 
Even though only my name appears on the box, the full list of 
people who contributed to this game at the various stages of its 
production would likely take several pages – the team of my old 
publishing company, the people at Rebel Publishing that took over 
the project, and finally, the team at Awaken Realms that finished 
the development of the game and handled its crowdfunding.
Regardless of his position at Awaken Realms, I would also like to 
personally thank Marcin Świerkot, not only as a publisher or for 
his skills at handling impressive Kickstarter campaigns. For me, it 
is obvious that Nemesis owes Marcin a great part of its incredible 
success, and I also wanted to thank him from his constant feedback 
and for convincing me to adopt several new concepts (which, believe 
me, wasn’t easy).
Nemesis also had a humongous group of testers. At the start, I only 
played it with a few close friends, but, with each iteration of the proj-
ect, the team grew until it reached truly epic proportions – especially 
after the game had been ported to the Tabletop Simulator (thanks to 
the efforts of Ken Cunningham, Steven Becker, David Werner, Ste-
fano Trivellato, Adam Grinder and Luca Cornaggia). I didn’t have the 
chance to meet every one of our many testers in person, but I wanted 
them to know that it was their feedback that helped me through the 
stages of this project, and allowed me to keep my enthusiasm intact 
throughout these five long years of development.
I also owe some special thanks to Michał Oracz, whom I met during 
the Nemesis project. The depth of his involvement in all aspects of 
this game is simply amazing, and I can only say how lucky I was to 
meet a person with such skills and experience.
To wrap things up, I’d like to thank Iga, who is probably the only 
person to remember the true beginning of this project, as she was 
the one who inspired me to create it five years ago, on a cold winter’s 
evening.
My final thanks go to everyone who supported this game on Kick-
starter, trusting both me and Awaken Realms. I hope Nemesis will 
repay you with many thrills and unforgettable hours spent over the 
board. And I hope that – at least every now and then – your journey 
will end with a safe trip back to Earth…
CrEDITS
Game DESIGN: Adam Kwapiński 
Development: Michał Oracz, Marcin Świerkot, Paweł Samborski, 
Michał Siekierski, Rebel team
Tests: Paweł Samborski, Michał Siekierski, Łukasz Krawiec, 
Franciszek Ostojski, Krzysztof Belczyk, Paweł Czochra
Rulebook: Michał Oracz, Paweł Samborski, Krzysztof Piskorski, 
Marcin Świerkot, Hervé Daubet 
Illustrations: Piotr Foksowicz, Ewa Labak, Patryk Jędraszek, 
Andrzej Półtoranos 
Graphic design: Adrian Radziun, Andrzej Półtoranos, Michał Oracz 
3D models: Jędrzej Chomicki, Jakub Ziółkowski, Piotr Gacek, 
Mateusz Modzelewski
Art Direction: Marcin Świerkot
Thanks: Christi Kropf, Shaun Melville, Frank Calcagno, Kevin Alford, 
Kris Ardianto, Michael Pollard, Joe Cook, Jon Farrell, Sean O’Grady, 
Tony Janota, Bryan Harpel, Kenneth Minchin, Christopher Rindfleisch, 
Dustin Crenshaw, Johannes Janson, Christoffer Lundberg, Garth Humphreys, 
Marco Corbella, Bobby Skeens, Dan Thorpe, Kieran Berry, Alex Jansen, Egor, 
Joeri Penasse, John Navarrete, Nikola Vlahović, Michael French.
	
Special thanks to Ken Cunningham and Jordan Luminais.
	
Special thanks to all Kickstarter backers who helped us make this game a reality.
	
Thank you to all people who tested this game during the long years of 
its making, and to all of the people who joined us for blind tests in ArBar 
and played the game on Tabletop Simulator.
Testers: Michał Misztal, Paweł Panek, Kacper Ziatkowski, 
Piotr Frąk, Mateusz Gospodarczyk, Martyna Machnica, Oriana Młynarska, 
Anna Sadurska-Czochra, Paweł Kieroń, Maks Kieroń, Michał Łysiak, Kacper Mendrek, 
Robert Neć, Michał Sieńko, Barbara Sanecka-Sieńko, Jakub Polkowski, 
Anna Polkowska, Piotr Żuchowski, Marta Batorczak-Żuchowska, Iga W. Grygiel, 
Błażej Kubacki, Robert Arciszewski, Paweł Kaczmarek, Barbara Kaczmarek, 
Łukasz Poręba, Jakub Kurek, Paweł Kurnatowski, Tomasz Dobosz, Michał Ozon, 
Paweł Szewczuk, Piotr Jasik, Klaudia Jasik, Wojciech Mikołajczak, Paweł Adamczuk, 
Tomasz Łapiński, Jakub Wasilewski, Michał Solan, Marcin Gleń, Joanna Gleń, 
Tomasz Bylina, Piotr Wołoszun, Łukasz Hapka, Jakub Mróz, Kamil Kołodziej, 
Cezary Sidor, Piotr Kątnik, Rafał Szczepkowski, Artur Jedliński, Maciej Jesionowski, 
Andrzej Aftarczuk, Wojciech Ingielewicz, Krzysztof Szafrański, Andrzej Olejarczyk, 
Piotr Widerski, Mateusz Żbikowski, Małgorzata Boryczka
English Translation: Krzysztof Piskorski, Paweł Samborski
Proofreading: Hervé Daubet, Dan Morley, 
with the invaluable help of our backers.

W
elcome aboard! This introductory story is designed 
to familiarize you with the flow of a standard game 
and to give you an overview of the essential Nemesis 
rules. All game terms, items, characters and board loca-
tions are written in bold to make them more distinguish-
able. We hope that this story will make reading these rules 
easier and more enjoyable. 
	
We hope that, after some games of Nemesis, you will 
have your own stories to tell! 
It started like countless times before – waking 
up in a cold fog within the Hibernatorium, at the very center of the 
ship. As usual, we were suffering from temporary amnesia due to 
FTL travel and hibernation. We knew our names and we had some 
basic memories, but we didn’t remember clearly where we were or 
what we were supposed to do. The layout of the ship felt unfamiliar. 
We knew that somewhere at the stern, there were three Engines and 
somewhere in the bow section, there was a Bridge. We were also 
conditioned to remember the location of the two Escape Pods, just 
in case something went REALLY wrong. The rest was blurry. But this 
time, amnesia was not our only problem – one of our comrades was 
lying in his pod with a gaping hole in his chest. Emergency lights 
were flashing all over the place. 
 
As the Captain, I knew we had to avoid panic, follow the procedures, 
inspect the ship, and check if the engines were operational, as we 
needed at least 2 of them to continue our trip. We also had to check 
the coordinates to make sure the ship was still heading to Earth. 
 
We had all watched enough horror movies to know we needed some 
weapons. Luckily, our lockers were right there, with some basic gear 
and Items we needed to perform our assigned jobs (although not all 
of them were functional). Between my 6-shooter and other personal 
items, I also found something else – a letter containing special or-
ders from my employer. Some time ago, our ship’s Mechanic had 
dug up some dirt on the corporation and claimed he would testify 
once he got back to Earth. The company made it clear they didn’t 
want him to come back. At any cost.
 
I knew many of my crew members had their own secret agendas 
and their own Corporate Objectives. I couldn’t trust them. We split 
into two groups – the Pilot and I were to check the bridge, while the 
Mechanic and the Scientist went to the aft section, where the Engine 
Rooms were located. 
 
I moved forward, navigating the Corridor carefully. When I en-
tered the next room, I heard a very strange Noise coming from the 
bow of the ship. Then, the Door slammed right behind me. System 
malfunction! So much for staying together… 
 
I looked around – I was in a section containing the crew’s 
Cabins. I decided to search this place for any useful items, finding 
a Fire Extinguisher and a Med Kit. I immediately felt a bit safer. 
There was nothing more here, so I decided to move forward. This 
is when things went from bad to worse. First, I stepped into some 
green Slime that covered my legs and wouldn’t come off. Then, 
I heard that noise again.
 
Suddenly, a monstrous Larva jumped right at me from the dark. 
By the look of its claws and mandibles, I was quite certain that this 
thing would do something horrible to me if I didn’t act fast. So, I kept 
on shooting at the the thing until it stopped twitching, spending most 
of my Ammo in the process.
 
At this point, I knew something crazy was going on. I had to decide 
if I wanted to fulfill the task the company had given me or if I should 
follow my Personal Objective. I realized that it wasn’t the best mo-
ment to bring down a crewmate – the future of mankind could be at 
hand! Instead of killing the Mechanic, I decided I should send a Sig-
nal using our Communications Room to warn Earth of the situation. 
Then, I would examine one of the creatures in the Lab, trying to get 
as much information as possible, before leaving this doomed ship. 
I was taking a short Rest to settle my nerves 
when I heard those creepy noises again. Nothing came at me this 
time, though. Moving to the next room, I entered the Generator, 
where I reunited with our Pilot. It was the only place where we could 
activate the ship’s Self-Destruct sequence. Considering what I had 
just seen, it didn’t sound like a bad idea… Unfortunately, the room 
was Damaged, and we would need to fix it first. We decided the 
Mechanic was best suited for this task.
 
I had a conversation with the pilot, who confirmed what I had been 
fearing all along – there was more than a single Larva. On her way 
here, she ran into an Adult specimen that managed to hit her. Fortu-
nately, it was just a Light Wound, but I secretly feared that she might 
have been Infected. And, since this Intruder was now lurking behind 
us, we could not go back to the Hibernatorium.
 
We spent the next few minutes moving cautiously from one room 
to another, trying to salvage what we could – I managed to Craft a 
makeshift Flamethrower, using some Chemicals and Tools. Every 
step of the way, we heard more and more noises converging in our 
direction. 
 
Several of the rooms we checked had been damaged, and one was on 
Fire. Things weren’t looking good. I knew the ship could only take so 
much stress before it would exploded. With that in mind, we spent 
some time fixing the Hatch Control System to unlock our two Escape 
Pods – we were one step closer from escaping this death trap. 
 
At this point, we spread out. The Pilot went to the 
Bridge, and I went to send my Signal. I entered my login into the 
comms console and began my transmission when an explosion 
threw me against the opposite wall. Even stunned by the blast, 
I understood that someone had just tried to kill me. I did not have to 
wait long for the culprit – a few seconds later, the Mechanic stormed 
into the room, a burning Molotov Cocktail in his greasy hand. 
 
He couldn’t shoot me or harm me directly – thanks to anti-aggres-
sion implants all space crews had in their brains to prevent violence 
or mutiny. However, indirect weapons were one of the ways to cheat 
the implant. There was just one thing he didn’t know. As a Captain, 
I could use the same implant to force him to follow a single order. 
 
I ordered the Mechanic to scout one of the connected rooms. Soon 
I heard the sound I had been hoping for. One of the Intruders came 
out of the Technical Corridors and jumped at the poor fool. Just to 
be sure neither of them would come out of it alive, I threw a Grenade 
in the corridor.
 
I inspected my Wounds – my leg was badly hurt. I Dressed it, and 
was able to move again, but I also knew this was a temporary mea-
sure, intending to Heal the damage at the first opportunity.
Despite the pain, I managed to reach the Bridge, Destroying 
a Locked Door along the way. There, I found the Pilot and told her 
about the Mechanic’s attack. She was in too much of a hurry to care. 
She had just set the jump coordinates for Earth. We didn’t know if 
enough engines were working, but she was willing to take the risk. 
This left us little time to get back to the Hibernatorium. There were 
only a few minutes left before the Jump, and everyone outside of 
a stasis pod at that moment would be atomized by the extreme ac-
celeration.
 
I told her to lead the way, hoping I’d get the chance to swing by 
the Lab and complete my own objective. But something didn’t feel 
right... Maybe it was the way she acted or talked? I could not tell, but 
as the Captain, I had learned not to ignore my hunch. 
 
Fortunately, I had a Log Key that could give me full access 
to one crew member’s account – I chose to check the Pilot’s cor-
respondence. What I found was shocking. She intended to take the 
ship to some secret base on Mars, where an organization I’d never 
heard of before was planning to use the Intruders for some unknown 
dark purpose.
 
What followed was pure hell. Wounded, surrounded 
by hostile life forms and without allies, I had to use every trick in 
my book to stay alive. When an Adult Intruder stood in my way, 
I used up all the fuel in my flamethrower trying to take him down, but 
it wasn’t enough. He managed to sink his slobbering mandibles in 
my shoulder. I took out the revolver and the last bullet I was saving 
for myself, I blew his head off.
 
I was about to lose consciousness from the Bleeding, when our Sci-
entist stumbled upon me. He was coming from the Lab, where he 
had analyzed one of the Intruder Carcasses, and discovered a Weak-
ness of their species. Turns out we shared a common objective!
 
He helped me up, and we decided to make a run for it together. 
Unfortunately, he didn’t make it very far. I had to leave him behind 
when he was caught by an enormous Breeder. It was a hard call, but 
someone had to warn Earth after all! 
 
Finally, I reached the Evacuation Hatch – but the way was 
blocked. There she was, waiting for me. A terrifying beast, the big-
gest of her kind. The Queen. I had only one thing left: a small fire 
extinguisher I had been carrying all along. In desperation, I fired it 
upon her. 
 
To my utter amazement, it worked! She retreated, giving me just 
enough time to enter the Escape Pod and launch it in a hurry.
 
I was OUT. I SURVIVED. 
 
Or at least I thought I had… I can feel something moving inside me. 
I don’t know how much time I have left. I am leaving this message in 
case someone finds this forsaken pod.
 
Destroy my body. Do not examine these creatures. Do not try to har-
ness them in any way.
 
If you want humanity to survive – leave them and never come back. 
Nemesis – Game Introduction 

1] Place the board on the table. Use the basic side of the board as 
shown in the picture.
Note: The basic side of the board is marked by a red arrow 
icon in its upper left corner.
2] Shuffle all Room tiles “2” without looking at their fronts and 
randomly place (face down) one Room tile “2” on each of the Room 
slots marked with a “2” on the board.
 
Put all remaining Room tiles “2” back in the box.
 
Note: You will not use all available Room tiles “2” each game, as there 
are more tiles than slots on the board. Players never know exactly which 
Rooms are on the ship.
 
Note: When putting any components back in the box, avoid looking at 
their contents.
3] Then, use the same method to place all Room tiles “1” on the 
Room slots marked with a “1”.
4] Take the Exploration tokens, shuffle them (without looking at 
their fronts) and place one token at random (face down) on each 
Room tile.
 
Put all remaining Exploration tokens back in the box.
5] Take the Coordinates cards and place one randomly (face down) 
on its space next to the Cockpit.
 
Put all remaining Coordinates cards back in the box.
6] Place 1 Status marker on the “B” space on the Destination Track. 
This is the Destination marker.
7] Take the corresponding number of randomly chosen Escape Pod 
tokens: 
	
– 1-2 players: 2 Escape Pods.
	
– 3-4 players: 3 Escape Pods.
	
– 5 players: 4 Escape Pods.
	
Place the lowest-numbered Escape Pod in Section “A”, then 
place the next (in numerical order) Escape Pod in Section “B”. Place 
the other Escape Pods, alternating between “A” and “B”.
	
Escape Pod tokens should be placed with their “Locked” side 
face up.
 
Put all remaining Escape Pods back in the box.
8] Take both Engine tokens marked with the number “1” (1 Damaged 
and 1 Working) and shuffle them face down. Place them on the cor-
responding Engine “1” slot on the board, one atop the other, and face 
down. The top Engine token indicates the true status of the Engine. 
	
Repeat this step for Engine tokens “2” and “3”. 
	
Important: Make sure that the players do not see the fronts of the to-
kens, so that they will not know if the Engines are working or not. 
9] Take the Intruder board, put it next to the board and place in the 
corresponding slots:
	
– 5 Egg tokens
	
– 3 random Weakness cards. They are placed face down, so that 
players will not know what Weaknesses they can discover during a 
given game.
 
Put all remaining Weakness cards back in the box. 
10] Take the Intruder bag and put the following Intruder tokens 
inside: 1 Blank, 4 Larvae, 1 Creeper, 1 Queen, 3 Adults.
	
Then, add 1 additional Adult Intruder token for each player taking 
part in the game. 
	
The rest of the Intruder tokens are placed next to the board – they 
will be used during play.
	
Place the Intruder Carcass tokens next to the board as well – 
they will mark killed Intruders.
11] Shuffle and place the following decks face down next to the 
board: 3 Items [each with its own color], Event, Intruder Attack, 
Contamination and Serious Wound decks.
	
Place the Craft Item deck next to the 3 Item decks.
	
Place the Scanner next to the Contamination deck.
	
Put all Intruder Player Action cards and all Solo / Coop Objective cards 
back in the box – these two decks are only used in advanced game modes 
– see Game Modes, page 27.
12] Place the other markers, tokens and dice next to the board: 
	
– Fire markers
	
– Malfunction markers
	
– Noise markers
	
– Ammo / Injury markers
	
– Status markers (used as Light Wounds / Slime / Signal / Self-
Destruct / Time / Destination markers)
	
– Door tokens
	
– Red Character Corpse tokens 
	
– 2 Combat dice
	
– 2 Noise dice
	
– First Player token
13] Place 1 Status marker on the green space of the Time Track. 
This is the Time marker.
The board setup is now complete! Now proceed to the crew setup, 
detailed on page 8.
intruder symbols: 
 
	
 
	
LARVA
 
	 
	 CREEPER
	 	
	 ADULT 
	 	 
	 BREEDER
 
		 
	 QUEEN
GAME SETup: steps 1-13, board setup 

<<< game setup >>>

14] Take as many Help Cards as there are players and deal one to 
each player at random. These cards determine the order of choosing 
Characters (Step 17). If there are 3 players, take the cards with the 
number 1-3, if there are 4 players, take cards 1-4 etc.
	
The number shown on the Help Card and Inventory is the Player 
Number – it’s not only important for choosing Character, but also for 
some Objectives.
 
Put all remaining Help cards back in the box.
 
More on Objectives – see 12.
15] Each player gets 1 plastic Inventory Card holder with the same 
number as their Help card. It is used to keep your Item cards hidden 
during the game.
	
This is your Inventory, the place where you store all your non-Heavy 
Items, so you know what you have, while the other players may only guess.
16] Remove from both Objective Decks (Corporate and Personal) 
all cards showing a number of players higher than the number of 
players taking part in the game.
	
Shuffle these two decks individually and deal each player 1 card 
from the Corporate Objectives deck and 1 card from the Personal 
Objectives deck. Each player must keep the contents of their Objec-
tive cards hidden from the other players!
 
Put all remaining Objective cards back in the box.
	
When any of the Characters encounters an Intruder for the first time, 
you will have to choose one of the two Objectives you want to complete 
during the game.
	
More on First Encounter, see page 12.
 
Hint: There’s a good reason why the players receive their Objectives 
before Character drafts! Knowing your Objective, you can pick a Character 
that has the best chance to fulfill it.
17] Shuffle all the Character draft cards. The players choose their 
Characters in the following order: Player 1 takes 2 random Character 
draft cards, reveals them, chooses 1 and shuffles the other back into 
the Character draft deck. Next, Player 2 chooses their Character the 
same way, then Player 3, etc.
	
A player may only control the Character whose card they have 
chosen during the draft.
 
After the draft, put all remaining Character draft cards back in the box, 
as they will no longer be used.
18] Each player takes the following components: 
	
A) The Character board of the Character chosen during the draft.
	
B) The miniature of their Character and places it in the Hiberna-
torium.
	
Place your Character miniature in a colored plastic ring.
	
C) The Action cards deck of their Character, shuffles it and plac-
es it on the left side of their Character board, face down.
	
D) The Starting Item card (Weapon) of their Character and 
places it in one of the two Hand slots on their Character board. 
Afterwards, place a number of Ammo markers equal to that Weap-
on’s Ammo capacity on the Weapon card.
	
E) The 2 Quest Items of their Character and places them, hori-
zontal side up, next to their Character board. Those items are NOT 
active at the start of the game, but players can perform mini-quests 
to unlock them during the game.
 
Take all remaining Character boards and put them back in the box. They 
will not be used during this game.
	
F) Leave this spot for the Action discard pile – this is where your 
used Action cards (and Contamination cards) will go.
19] Player 1 gets the First Player token.
20] Place the blue Character Corpse token in the Hibernatorium. 
It represents the body of a poor sod lying in a pool of blood.
	
During the game, treat this token as a Character Corpse Object.
	
The blue Character Corpse token is always assigned to the first dead 
body found on the ship.
GAME SETup: steps 14-20, CrEW SETup 

<<< board description >>>
BoArD DESCrIpTIoN
1 – Hibernatorium (Special Room)
2 – Cockpit (Special Room)
3 – Coordinates card space
4 – Destination Track
5 – Engine 01, Engine 02, Engine 03 (Special Rooms)
 
Important: During Movement, Special Rooms are treated as already explored Rooms.
6 – Escape Pod spaces
7 – Example of explored Rooms
8 – Example of unexplored Rooms
9 – Example of Technical Corridors Entrances
10 – Technical Corridors space
11 – Time Track
12 – Self-Destruct Track
13 – Examples of Item Counters
14 – Examples of Corridors
15 – Examples of Corridor Numbers
16 – Example of Room Number
Discard piles
Leave an empty space for a discard pile next 
to each of the following decks: Items, Event, 
Intruder Attack and Serious Wounds.
 
Note: There’s a special spot for the Action dis-
card pile, marked on each of the Character boards. 
Contamination cards go the the player’s Action dis-
card pile until they are removed from the game.
	
All the above cards are discarded face up.
All markers are discarded to the appropriate pile.

<<< basic rules >>>
T
he game is played over a series of consecutive turns, and ends 
when any of the end game conditions are met.
 
More on Players Goals and End of the Game – see page 11.
TurN orDEr
Each turn is split into two consecutive Phases: 
	
I: Player Phase,
	
II: Event Phase.
I: pLAYEr pHASE 
Resolve the following steps:
1: DrAW ACTIoN CArDS
At the start of each Player Phase, all players draw cards from their 
Action deck until they have a hand size of 5 cards.
	
If the game (at any time) requires you to draw a card and add it 
to your hand, and your Action deck is empty, shuffle all the cards in 
your discard pile – these will form your new Action deck. Then, draw 
the required number of cards.
2: FIrST pLAYEr ToKEN
After all the Players have drawn their Action cards, the player with 
the First Player token passes it to the player on their left.
	
Note: In the first turn of the game, do not pass the First Player token.
	
Each time players are required to do anything in order, start with 
the player with the First Player token, and then continue with each 
player in clockwise order.
 
 3: pLAYEr rouNDS
Starting with the first player and going clockwise, each player per-
forms a round of 2 Actions.
	
When each player has performed their round of 2 Actions (or 
passed their round), the next series of rounds takes place. Each 
player in order performs 2 Actions (or passes) – this takes place 
as long as there is at least one player who has not passed. When 
all players have passed, move to the Event Phase.
	
If a player cannot perform any Actions, or chooses to take no 
Actions in their round, they must pass.
	
If a player performs only 1 Action instead of the required two, 
they must pass.
	
Any player who already passed cannot perform ANY Actions later 
during that Phase.
	
When a player passes, they may discard any number of cards 
from their hand to their Discard.
 
When you pass, flip your Help card to the “Pass” side to indicate this.
	
Note: When a Character ends their round in a Room with a Fire marker, 
they always suffer 1 Light Wound – see Fire marker, page 17.
 
The available Actions are described in detail later – see Actions, page 12.
II: EvENT pHASE 
Resolve the following steps:
4: TIME TrACK
Move the Time marker on the Time Track by 1 space to the right.
	
If the Self-Destruct Sequence is active, also move its marker by 
1 space to the right on its Track. 
5: INTruDEr ATTACK
Each Intruder in Combat with a Character attacks them.
 
More on Intruder Attack – see Combat, page 18.
6: FIrE DAMAGE
Each Intruder in the same Room as a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury.
 
More on Intruder Injuries – see Combat, pages 18-20.
 
More on Fire – see page 17.
7: rESoLvE EvENT CArD
Draw and resolve 1 Event card:
	
intruder movement – All Intruders sharing the Intruder 
Symbol shown on the Event card (and that are NOT in a Room with 
any Characters) move to a neighboring Room through the Corridor 
showing the number on the Event card.
 
More on Corridors and Rooms – see page 14.
	
If the number indicates a Technical Corridor, remove that Intrud-
er miniature from the board and put its corresponding Intruder token 
in the Intruder bag.
 
	
EvENT EFFECT – After the Intruder movement step, re-
solve the effect described on the Event card.
	
After resolving the Event card, discard it in the Event discard pile 
(unless the text on the card says differently). If the Event deck runs 
out of cards (this, however, happens very rarely), shuffle the dis-
carded Event cards – they become the new Event deck.
8: INTruDEr BAG DEvELoPMENT
Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag. 
	
The effect depends on the drawn token:
 Larva – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and add 
1 Adult token to the Intruder bag.
 Creeper – Remove this token from the Intruder bag and 
add 1 Breeder token to the Intruder bag.
 Adult – All players roll for Noise in order. 
	
If a player’s Character is in Combat with an Intruder, this player 
does not perform a Noise roll.
	
Return the Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
 Breeder – All players roll for Noise in order. 
	
If a player’s Character is in Combat with an Intruder, this player 
does not perform a Noise roll.
	
Return the Breeder Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
 queen – If there are any Characters in the Nest Room, 
place the Queen miniature in that Room and resolve an Encounter.
 
	
If there are no Characters in the Nest (or its location has not been 
discovered yet), add an additional Egg token on the Intruder board.
	
Return the Queen Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
 Blank – Add 1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag. 
If there are no Adult Intruder tokens available, nothing happens. 
	
Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag.
 
More on Noise roll – page 15.
9: END oF THE TurN
Start a new turn.
	
The turn ends after the Intruder bag development step has been fully 
resolved. It means that all Encounters, Surprise Attacks etc. must have been 
played out. After that, a new turn starts with the Player Phase and all players 
draw their Action cards.
EXAMPLE OF AN EVENT CARD
1, 2) Intruder symbols and direction number – only the Intrud-
ers whose symbol appears on the card (and that are not in Com-
bat) are moved through the corridor displaying the same direction 
number as the card.
 In this example, during the Intruder movement step, all Adult 
Intruders, Breeders and the Queen will move through the Cor-
ridor number 1.
3) Event effect – this effect is triggered after the Intruder move-
ment step has been performed.
 In this example, check if a Malfunction marker is present in the Gen-
erator Room to trigger the effect. Then, REMOVE this Event from the 
game (back to the box) and reshuffle the Event deck and discard pile.
FLoW oF THE GAME 

pLAYErS GoALS 
A game of Nemesis may result in multiple winners, but it is not 
a cooperative game – while the players can (and should, to some de-
gree) cooperate, each player has their own Objective to fulfill. Other 
players achieving their goals are irrelevant to your own victory.
	
To consider a player a winner, they must meet 2 conditions:
	
1) Fulfill their objective, detailed on the Objective card 
chosen by the player.
	
2) Survive – meaning one of these two options: [1] hibernate 
their Character in the Hibernatorium with the ship still functioning 
and jumping to Earth OR [2] use one of the Escape Pods to evacuate 
the ship.
	
Important: Some Objective cards may ask a Character to change the 
ship’s destination – for instance, the ship must be redirected to Mars in-
stead of going back to Earth.
 
More on Hibernatorium – see Room sheet, page 26.
 
 
More on Coordinates – see Cockpit, Room sheet, page 26.
END oF THE GAME 
The game ends when one of the following conditions is met:
The Time marker moves on the final red space of the Time 
Track – the ship jumps into hyperspace immediately. All characters 
on board who are not in hibernation die from the massive g-force.
	
Important: Instant death due to hyperjump does not apply to the Intrud-
ers, so if your Objective was to kill the Queen, a Breeder or to destroy the 
Nest, your target is unharmed, and you fail your mission. 
The Self-Destruct marker moves on to the final red space of 
the Self-Destruct Track (the one with “skull” icon) OR you are in-
structed to place a 9th Fire marker or a 9th Malfunction marker – 
the ship explodes/loses hull integrity and all the Characters on board 
(both awake and hibernated) die.
	
Everything else on board the ship also dies, including Intruders 
(this may be important for some Objectives).
 
More on Self-Destruct – see Generator Room on the Room sheet.
The last alive, not hibernating Character on board the ship 
dies, hibernates or uses an Escape Pod – meaning there is nothing 
more to do on the ship.
	
If the Self-Destruct sequence was active, move its marker to the final 
red space of the Self-Destruct Track. If not, move the Time marker to the 
final red space of the Time Track. In both cases resolve the effects of those 
markers as described above.
I
f one of the conditions above is met and at least 1 Character sur-
vived (either asleep in the Hibernatorium or evacuated in an Es-
cape Pod), go to the Victory Check step.
vICTorY CHECK 
1) ENGINES CHECK: 
If the ship survived up to this moment, its Engines are checked. Re-
veal all the top Engine tokens of the three Engines.
	
If 2 or 3 of the top Engine tokens have a Damaged status, the ship 
explodes and all the hibernating Characters die.
	
Everything else on board also dies, including all the Intruders 
(this may be important for some Objectives).
	
Note: A Malfunction marker in the Engine Room only disables that 
Room Action. If the Engine has a Working status, it does not count as Dam-
aged, regardless of the mentioned Malfunction marker.
 
2) CoorDINATES CHECK: 
If the ship survived up to this moment, reveal the Coordinates card 
and check the current space of the Destination marker.
	
If the ship is not headed toward Earth, all Characters asleep in the 
Hibernatorium die.
	
The Quarantine Objective, which requires another destination for the 
jump (Mars), is the only exception to this rule. Any Character with this Ob-
jective does not die if they are asleep in the Hibernatorium and the ship’s 
destination is Mars.
	
Important: Instant death due to a destination other than Earth does not 
apply to the Intruders!
	
Note: In this case, although the Characters die, the ship is not destroyed.
 
More on Coordinates – see Cockpit, Room sheet, page 26.
<<< basic rules >>>
pLAYErS GoALS AND END oF THE GAME
3) CoNTAMINATIoN CHECK: 
Each alive Character (either asleep in the Hibernatorium or eva­cuated 
in an Escape Pod) checks their Contamination cards.
	
A) The player Scans all the Contamination cards in their Action 
deck, discard pile and hand.
	
B) If there is at least 1 “INFECTED” card, that player shuffles all 
their cards (both Action and Contamination) to create a new Action 
deck, then draws the 4 top cards. If there is at least 1 Contamination 
card (Infected or not), the Character dies. If there are none, they are 
lucky to survive.
 
If there is a Larva on the Character’s Board, the player skips step A and 
resolves step B.
 
4) oBJECTIvE CHECK: 
If there are any Characters alive up to this step, you only have to 
check if you accomplished your chosen Objective.
	
Each player whose Character is still alive at this step must check 
if they accomplished their chosen Objective. They all reveal their Ob-
jective card to the other players and check if they have met all its 
requirements.
Ending the game 
before the other players
If any Character uses an Escape Pod, hibernates or dies, 
then they can no longer actively participate in the game, and 
can only spectate. At the end of the game, the Characters 
that are still alive determine if all their Objectives have been 
met and thus if they have won or not.
	
The Player whose Character is the first to die may continue the 
game as an Intruder – see Game Modes, Playing as an Intruder, 
page 27.

d
uring each of their rounds, players can perform various Actions. 
There are 4 groups of Actions in the game: 
	
Basic Actions
	
Actions from Action cards
	
Actions from Item cards
	
Actions from Room tiles
 
More on Player Phase – see page 10.
 
 
Action icons
Action Cost 
Each Action displays an Action icon. The number in any given Action 
icon indicates the Cost of performing the given Action. In order to 
pay the Cost, the player must discard the exact number of any cho-
sen Action cards from their hand. Discarded cards are placed face 
up in the discard pile.
 
Important: Even though they’re included in the Action deck, Contamina-
tion cards are not Action cards. They cannot be discarded from your hand to 
pay any Action Cost. Contamination cards represent the exhaustion of your 
Character – and sometimes something even worse.
	
More on Contamination cards – see page 20.
CrITICAL
GAMEpLAY MoMENTS
During the game, there are two critical moments that are not tied to 
any specific turn, but are triggered under certain conditions:
	
The First Encounter with an Intruder.
	
The first Character that dies.
FIrST ENCouNTEr 
The first time a crew member encounters 
an Intruder, every one has to make a choice 
– either follow corporate directives 
or fulfill their personal objectives.
	
When the first Intruder miniature (of any type) appears on the 
board, the situation changes drastically. Each player immediately 
chooses 1 of their 2 Objective cards. The one that wasn’t chosen 
is removed from the game face down (without showing it to the 
other players). Then, the encounter that triggered this procedure is 
resolved and the game continues normally.
	
From now on, each player has only 1 Objective left and they must work 
toward its completion (it must still be kept secret from the other players).
	
Note: Players cannot look at the removed Objective cards of the other players! 
	
Note: Eggs are not Intruders. 
 
More on Encounters – see Encounter and Combat, page 18.
FIrST DEAD CHArACTEr 
The first time a Character (of any player) dies, the ship’s AI immedi-
ately starts emergency procedures:
	
All Escape Pods are automatically unlocked (flip their tokens to 
the Unlocked side). 
	
For the rest of the game they may be locked (and unlocked) normally 
(for example using the Hatch Control System Room Action).
 
More on Escape Pods and Hatch Control System Room – see Room 
sheet, page 26 and 25.
 
In addition, the first dead Character may play as the Intruder - see page 27.
Self-Destruct and Hibernation: 
There are also 2 additional important moments that sometimes hap-
pen in the game:
Hibernation chambers open: When the Time Track 
reaches any blue space, the Hibernation chambers open. Characters 
CANNOT enter them before that moment. 
Self-destruct is critical: When the Self-Destruct Track 
reaches any yellow space, all Escape Pods are automatically unlocked 
and the Characters can no longer stop the Self-Destruct sequence.
objectiveS
Since completing most of the Objectives requires some knowledge of the 
game (for example Room actions, rules for destroying the ship, Escape 
Pods functionality, etc.), you’ll find some tips below that may help begin-
ner players to find the appropriate sections in the Manual.
	
Important! No matter which Objective you choose, your Character must 
survive the game! That means, they must either get into an Escape Pod and 
launch it or hibernate.
player X's Character cannot survive
This means that the Character of the indicated player cannot be alive at 
the end of the game (they cannot hibernate or escape using an Escape 
Pod). You do not need to kill them with any of your Actions – they simply 
must be dead. You might want to trap this Character in a Room on Fire or 
with an Intruder. Maybe you could seek another player’s help?
	
You can also escape the ship by using the Escape Pods, abandoning 
the rest of the crew on board with Fire, Malfunctions, Damaged Engines, 
Self-Destruct procedure or Coordinates leading to nowhere and hope 
that everybody dies or that the ship explodes.
 
More on Hibernatorium – see Room sheet, page 26.
 
 
More on Fire, Malfunction, damaged Engines and Self-Destruct – see 
End of the game, page 11.
 
More on Fire markers – see page 17.
 
More on Malfunction markers – see page 17.
 
 
More on Self-Destruct – see Generator, Room sheet, page 24.
Your Character is the only survivor
No Character but yours may survive the game.
Sending the Signal
Send the Signal means you need to locate the Comms Room and per-
form its Room Action. There is always a Comms Room on board – look 
for the Rooms with the number “1” on their back.
 
More on Comms Room – see Room sheet, page 24.
the ship must reach Earth/Mars
The ship will reach its destination if the right Coordinates have been set 
in the Cockpit and if at least two of its three Engines are still functional 
(Working status).
	
More on Coordinates and Cockpit – see Room sheet, page 26.
 
More on damaged Engines – see End of the game, page 11.
 
Discover a Weakness
Weaknesses can be discovered by bringing an Object to the Laboratory 
and by performing the Laboratory Room Action there. It doesn’t matter 
if you’re not the one who did the research, as long as the Weakness has 
been discovered at the end of the game.
	
Intruders’ Eggs may be found in the Nest. The Nest is always on the 
board – look for the Rooms with the number “1” on their back.
	
The Laboratory is always on the board – look for the Rooms with the 
number “1” on their back.
 
More on Intruder Weakness cards – see page 21.
 
More on Objects – see page 22.
 
More on Laboratory – see Room sheet, page 24.
 
More on Nest – see Room sheet, page 25.
Destroy the Nest
The Nest is destroyed when there are no Intruder Eggs left in it. To de-
stroy Eggs, check the Nest description on the Room sheet.
	
The Nest is always on the board – look for the Rooms with the number 
“1” on their back.
 
More on Nest – see Room sheet, page 25.
In Combat only 
/ out of Combat only 
Some of the Actions and Items specify when they may be 
used:
 – In Combat only – The Character may per-
form this Action only in Combat.
	
A Character is considered to be in Combat if there is an Intruder 
in their Room. Eggs do not count as Intruders.
 – out of Combat only – The Character 
may perform this Action only when they are NOT in 
Combat. 
 If a given Action is not marked by any of the symbols above, 
that means this Action may be performed both in Combat and 
out of it.

<<< actions >>>
BASIC ACTIoNS 
Each Character has the same set of Basic Actions. These Actions are al-
ways available for each Character, as long as they meet their conditions. 
	
A detailed description of these Actions is given below.
Movement – move your Character miniature 
to the neighboring Room, applying all the Movement ba-
sic rules.
 
More on Movement – see page 14.
Careful Movement – works exactly 
like Movement, but instead of performing a Noise roll af-
ter moving, place a Noise marker in a chosen Corridor connected 
to the Room you are entering.
	
If there is a Noise marker in all the Corridors connected to the 
Room you want to move to, you cannot perform a Careful Movement.
	
You cannot perform Careful Movement if you are in Combat.
	
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker.
 
More on Movement, Noise rolls and Noise markers – see page 14-15.
Shoot – attack an Intruder with a Weapon placed 
in your Character’s Hand, discarding an Ammo marker 
from that Weapon’s card. You can only Shoot Intruders in the 
same Room as your Character.
 
More on Shooting – see Encounter and Combat, page 18.
 
More on Items in Character’s Hand – see Items, page 22.
Melee Attack – attack an Intruder with your 
bare hands (or anything you can improvise). You can only 
attack Intruders in the same Room as your Character.
 
More on Melee Attack – see Encounter and Combat, page 19.
pick up Heavy object – pick up 
1 Heavy Object present in the Room you are in. It can be 
a Character Corpse, an Intruder Carcass or an Intruder Egg.
	
Note: When you Search and find Heavy Items, you are not required to 
use this Action. This Action applies only to Objects.
 
More on Heavy Objects – see page 22.
Trade – start a trade with all Characters in the same 
Room as your Character.
	
Players may now show each other any Item cards and Objects 
they want to trade. If both involved players agree on the transaction, 
they exchange the items. Even though several players may take part 
in the Trade, the only player that performs the Action is the one that 
started it. 
	
A player can choose to give an Item card or Object without asking 
anything in return.
 
Note: Characters cannot exchange Ammo.
Craft Item – discard 2 Item cards showing the 
appropriate blue Craft icons to gain a Crafted Item card 
with the same Craft icons (but in gray color) as the Items you have 
discarded.
	
A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have 
the required blue components.
 
More on Crafting Items – see page 23.
EXAMPLE OF AN ACTION CARD:
Here, we have a Captain Action card – Basic Repairs.
1) It shows an “Out of Combat Only” icon. This means that this 
Action cannot be performed in Combat.
2) Action Cost. In this case, to perform Basic Repairs, the player 
must discard 2 additional Action cards from their hand.
3) Action Effect.
4) Shows that this Action can be performed in one of two ways:
 – either to discard the Malfunction marker from a Room 
 – OR to Repair / Break one of the Engines. 
 
FroM ITEM CArDS 
Some Item cards allow a Character to perform specific Actions. 
	
Their description is provided on the Item cards.
 
More on Items – see page 22.
FroM rooM TILES 
Most of the Rooms allow a Character to perform a specific Action. 
	
The description of each Room Action is provided on the Room 
sheet (see page 24).
 
FroM ACTIoN CArDS 
Each Character has its own, partially unique set of 10 Action cards 
representing the Actions which can be performed by this Character.
	
The description of each Action is detailed on the corresponding 
Action card. 
	
To perform an Action from an Action card, discard this card from 
your hand (face up) and pay its Cost. 
	
Important: in this case, the Cost of an Action is the number of Action 
cards you must discard from your hand, in addition to the Action card with 
the performed Action. 
	
If an Action card contains two sections separated by [OR], the 
player chooses the one they want to perform.

M
oving around the ship is one of the basic activities of the Char-
acters during the game. Characters will roam through the ship 
to discover additional rooms, find items that are useful or vital to their 
survival, complete their objectives, repair dangerous and malfunction-
ing gear or put out fires, to find – in the end – a way out of this mess.
rooMS 
AND CorrIDorS 
Character miniatures may be placed and perform Actions only in 
ROOMS (keep in mind that Special Rooms, such as the Hibernato-
rium, Engines or Cockpit are treated as normal Rooms).
	
Escape Pod tokens are the only exception to the rule above – see Escape 
Pods, Room sheet, page 26.
	
Intruder miniatures may also only be placed in Rooms. 
	
CORRIDORS connect the Rooms, and are used to move between 
Rooms, though neither Characters nor Intruders can ever stop in 
them for any reason.
	
The effects of moving through any given Corridor are resolved 
AFTER moving into the Room.
MovEMENT ACTIoN 
The most common Action used to move around the ship is MOVEMENT.
 
More on Movement Action – see Actions, page 13-14.
	
Performing a Movement Action means moving the miniature of 
your Character to a neighboring Room.
	
Two Rooms are treated as neighboring when they are directly con-
nected to each other by 1 Corridor. Closed Doors block the “neighbor-
ing” status for the players’ Movement. 
 
More on Closed Doors – see page 17.
After entering a Room, always resolve the following steps:
1) If this Room tile was unexplored (face down), turn it over (face up).
	
After doing that reveal the EXPLORATION TOKEN lying on that 
Room tile.
 
More on Exploration tokens – see page 14.
2) If the Character enters an empty Room (explored or unexplored, 
with neither Characters nor Intruders), perform a NOISE ROLL.
 
	
 If there is anyone (either a Character or an Intruder) in the Room 
the Character is entering, do not perform a NOISE ROLL.
	
Hint: Aside from the advantage of moving around the ship in groups 
(entering Rooms that already contain Characters), such tactics may gener-
ate an additional risk. Some events in the game instruct all Characters to 
perform a Noise roll – in such a case, bigger groups sharing a common 
Room might be in trouble.
oTHEr MovEMENT ACTIoNS 
Some of the Actions allow a Character to perform Movement, but 
modify its rules in some way – like Careful Movement and Recon-
naissance.
 
More on Careful Movement – see Basic Actions, page 13.
 
More on Reconnaissance – see Scout Actions cards.
	
Important: To perform a Movement Action to leave a Room containing 
an Intruder, you must use the Escape rule – see Encounter and Combat, 
page 18-19.
MovEMENT AND EXpLorATIoN ToKENS 
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN OCCUPIED ROOM
In this example, the Scout is moving into a Room already oc-
cupied by the Captain. As there is someone in the target Room, 
there is NO NOISE ROLL.
	 The same rule would apply if the Scout was moving into a Room 
containing an Intruder. NO NOISE ROLL would be required.
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN EMPTY ROOM
Here, we can see the Scout moving into the Canteen. The player 
discards an Action card, the miniature is moved and a NOISE 
ROLL is made.
	 The result is 2, so a Noise marker (blue glow), is placed in the 
Corridor connected to the Canteen showing the result’s number, 
“2“ (red glow).
	 If the Corridor “2” already contains a Noise marker, an Encoun-
ter would take place. Luckily for the Scout, everything is fine... for 
now.
EXpLorATIoN ToKENS
The front side of each Exploration token displays:
	
1) a number indicating the amount of Items in a given Room
	
2) a special effect symbol
	
They are resolved in the following way:
1) SET up THE AMouNT 
oF Items IN A room 
After revealing the Exploration token, rotate the Room tile until the 
number shown on the token faces the Item Counter symbol printed 
on the board, next to the Room tile slot. This is the exact amount of 
Items that can be obtained from this Room.
	
You do not set the amount of Items in a Nest or in a Room Covered In 
Slime. 
 
More on searching Items – see Search Action card and see Items, page 23.
Item Counter set to 2 Items

 
EXAMPLE OF NOISE ROLL
Even if the Noise marker (blue glow) is in the Corridor with the 
Closed Door, it affects the WHOLE Corridor. Noise markers NEV-
ER affect only a part of the Corridor “on one side of the Door”. 
When there is a Noise marker in the Technical Corridors space 
(green glow), it is treated as if it was in each Technical Corridors 
Entrance on the whole board.
	 In this example, there are two Noise markers in Corridors con-
nected to the Canteen: one in the Corridor number 3, with the 
Closed Door (blue glow), and the other in the Technical Corridors 
(green glow).
NoISE roLL 
Noises echo throughout the Nemesis decks… 
sometimes from the ship‘s machinery, but 
sometimes from Intruders.
REMEMBER: If you are moving into a Room with either another 
Character or an Intruder – you do NOT perform a Noise roll.
Roll a Noise die and resolve the result:
 
 
 
 
rESuLT oF 1, 2, 3 or 4: 
Place a Noise marker in a Corridor with a number corresponding to 
the result of your Noise roll, and connected to the Room you have 
entered (counting Technical Corridors, if there is an Entrance in 
the Room).
 
	
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker. If 
you are instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that already 
contains one, resolve an Encounter instead.
 
 
 
 DANGEr: 
	
If there is an Intruder in the neighboring Room (and it is not in 
Combat with any Character), move it to this Room. If there is more 
than one Intruder eligible, move them all.
	
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms (or if 
they are in Combat), place a Noise marker in each Corridor connect-
ed to that Room that does not already have a Noise marker (counting 
Technical Corridors, if there is an Entrance in the Room).
 
 
 
More on Combat – see page 18.
 SILENCE: 
Nothing happens. No Noise marker is placed.
	
If the Character has a Slime marker on their Character board, 
then resolve “Danger” instead.
Additional notes about 
Intruder movement
Intruders move at different times of the game (for exam-
ple when resolving an Event card during the Event Phase). 
Whenever a rule makes you move one or more Intruders, 
it explains in detail how to do it. 
 
Important: If an Intruder ends its movement in an unexplored 
Room, do not remove it and don’t reveal the Room (or its Explora-
tion token).
If you are instructed to place an Adult Intruder on the board, 
but all 8 models are already on board – the Adult Intrud-
ers retreat. Remove all Adult Intruder models that are not in 
Combat and put the corresponding Intruder tokens back in 
the Intruder bag (if possible).
	
Then, place an Adult Intruder model in the Room where 
Encounter occured.
2) rESoLvE SPECIAL EFFECT 
An Exploration token may generate the following effects:
 SILENCE: 
Nothing happens. 
	
Do not perform a Noise roll for this Movement.
	
If the Character has a Slime marker on their Character board, 
then resolve “Danger” instead.
 DANGEr: 
Do not perform a Noise roll for this Movement.
	
If there is an Intruder in the neighboring Room (and it is not in 
Combat with any Character), move it to this Room. If there is more 
than one Intruder eligible, move them all.
	
If there are no Intruders in any of the neighboring Rooms (or if 
they are in Combat), place a Noise marker in each Corridor con-
nected to that Room without a Noise marker already placed (count-
ing Technical Corridors if there is an Entrance in the Room).
 
 
 
More on Combat – see page 18.
 SLIME: 
Place a Status marker in the indicated slot of your Character board 
to indicate they have been covered with slime.
 
 FIrE: 
Place a Fire marker in this Room.
 
More on Fire markers – see page 17.
 MALFuNCTIoN: 
Place a Malfunction marker in this Room.
 
More on Malfunction markers – see page 17.
 DoorS: 
Place a Door token in the Corridor by which you have entered that Room.
 
More on Door tokens – see page 17.
After resolving an Exploration token, remove it from the game.
 
Exploration tokens are placed on unexplored Rooms, so they are only 
resolved once, when their Room is entered for the first time in the game.

TECHNICAL CorrIDorS
The technical corridor network of the Nemesis 
allows the crew to repair its various systems. 
Unfortunately, it is also a great way for the 
Intruders to move around the ship. Normal 
characters can’t use technical corridors – the 
thought of getting lost or meeting an Intruder 
is enough to discourage them. 
  Both the Technical Corridors Entrances (present in some Rooms) 
and the special space of Technical Corridors are not accessible to 
the Characters.
	
The Technical Corridors Action card from the Mechanic Action deck and 
the Technical Corridor Plans Item card are the only exceptions to this rule.
	
If (for example as the result of a Noise roll) a Noise marker should 
be placed and the number leads to the Technical Corridor Entrance, 
this Noise marker should be placed on the Technical Corridors 
space.
	
Any given Corridor may never hold more than 1 Noise marker. 
If you are instructed to place a Noise marker in a Corridor that al-
ready contains one, resolve an Encounter instead.
 
	
Door tokens can never be placed in Technical Corridors.
	
If an Intruder moves to the Technical Corridors Entrance, then 
it disappears in the ducts: discard all its Injury markers, return its 
token to the Intruder bag, and remove its miniature from the board. 
If there was a Noise marker on the Technical Corridors space, do not 
remove it.
1) Technical Corridors space
2) Examples of Technical Corridors Entrances
EXAMPLE OF MOVING INTO AN UNEXPLORED ROOM
Here, we can see the Scout moving from the Hibernatorium to 
an unexplored Room. The player has already discarded an Action 
card to perform this movement.
	 Before the moving the miniature, the player flips both the Ex-
ploration token (yellow) and the Room tile (white) face-up.
The Scout discovers the Canteen, her favorite Room! As indi-
cated by the Exploration token, the Room is Malfunctioning, so 
an appropriate token is placed on its tile. Luckily, there are 3 
items to be found. The Room tile is rotated so its Item Counter 
points toward number 3.
	 Afterwards, our brave Scout must perform a Noise roll since 
she has entered an empty Room.
 

 NoISE Marker 
The only function of the Noise markers is to mark Corridors for the 
purpose of the Noise roll rule.
 
 SLIME Marker 
As long as the Character has a Slime marker on their Character 
board, each “Silence” result of a Noise roll (and each “Silence” ex-
ploration token) should instead be considered as “Danger”.
 
	
A Character may only have 1 Slime marker at a time. If they are 
instructed to get another while they have one, nothing happens.
	
Note: A Character may get a Slime marker due to many reasons, not 
only when resolving an Exploration token.
	
A Character may get rid of the Slime marker by using the Clothes Item 
card (see Item cards) or taking a Shower Room Action (see Room sheet).
	
The Slime marker is an universal Status marker, placed in the Slime slot 
of the Character board.
FIrE Marker 
Fire markers have three functions – 1) they wound Characters stay-
ing in Rooms on fire, 2) they deal Injuries to Intruders and 3) they 
may cause the explosion of the whole ship.
	
1) Every time a Character ends their round (each round!) in a 
Room with a Fire marker, this Character suffers 1 Light Wound.
	
Remember that 1 round is 2 Actions of 1 Character (or 1 Action and 
pass, or simply pass).
	
Important: Characters suffer Wounds from Fire only after they finished 
their round. If the Character passes, they suffer 1 Light Wound from Fire at 
the end of their round, but they won’t suffer any more Wounds from Fire 
this turn, even if other Characters play their round after them.
 
More on Light Wounds – see Wounds, page 21.
 
More on Action rounds – see Player Phase, page 10.
	
2) During each Event Phase, during the Fire Damage step, each 
Intruder present in a Room with a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury.
 
More on Intruder Injuries – see Combat, page 18.
	
3) There are 8 Fire markers in the game. If you are intructed to 
place a Fire marker and there are no more markers in the pool, the 
ship explodes and the game ends.
	
Note: Some Event cards may cause the Fire to spread to neighboring 
Rooms or cause Malfunctions in Rooms already on fire, so be careful!
 
See more – End of the game, page 11.
	
Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Fire marker. If you 
are instructed to place another one, nothing happens.
	
Any discarded Fire marker goes back to the Fire marker pool.
	
You can still use a Room Action when there is a Fire marker in the Room.
	
You can still use a Search Action when there is a Fire marker in the Room.
 MALFuNCTIoN Marker
Malfunction markers have two purposes – 1) they prevent you from 
using this Room’s Actions and 2) may cause loss of integrity of the 
ship’s hull – meaning that everything on board dies.
	
1) If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room, that Room’s 
Action is no longer available.
	
The Search Action works normally, though.
	
Various Action cards (like Repair Action cards) and Items (like 
the Tools Item card) may be used to discard a Malfunction marker.
	
Important: A Malfunction marker can never be placed in the Nest or in 
the Room Covered In Slime.
	
Note: A Malfunction marker may be placed in a Room due to many 
reasons, other than resolving an Exploration token (like some Events or 
Actions). They disable even Special Rooms (such as the Hibernatorium, 
Cockpit, Engines).
	
Note: A Malfunction marker in the Hibernatorium has no effect on al-
ready Hibernated Characters.
	
The status of the Engines (Damaged/Working) is never affected 
by Malfunction markers placed in their Room. 
 
	
2) There are 8 Malfunction markers in game. If you are instruct-
ed to place a Malfunction marker and there are no more markers in 
the pool, the ship loses hull integrity and the game ends.
 
See more – End of the game, page 11.
	
Any given Room may never hold more than 1 Malfunction mark-
er. If you are instructed to place another one, nothing happens.
	
Any discarded Malfunction marker goes back to the Malfunction 
marker pool.
If there is a Malfunction marker in a Room with a Com-
puter, the Computer is unavailable – as if there was no 
Computer Icon.
 
More on Computers – see Room sheet, page 24.
 Door ToKEN 
Door tokens are only placed in Corridors. Each Corridor may never 
hold more than 1 Door token.
	
Doors tokens do not affect Noise markers.
	
Doors in each Corridor can have three different status: Open, 
Closed or Destroyed. Many things can change their status (like 
Intruder movement, Events, Actions etc.).
CLoSED DoorS are marked with a standing Door token in 
a Corridor. 
	
A Closed Door prevents Characters and Intruders moving through 
this Corridor (Grenade throwing is also affected).
 
More on Throw – see the Grenade Item card.
	
When an Intruder tries to move through a Corridor with a Closed 
Door token, the Intruder does not move, but destroys this Door in-
stead. 
 
More on Intruder movement – see page 15.
DESTroYED DoorS are marked with a lying Door token. 
Movement is allowed through this Corridor. 
	
A Destroyed Door can never be Closed again.
 
The only exception to this rule is the Plasma Torch Item (see the Me-
chanic’s Item cards).
opEN DoorS – to mark that the Door is Open, simply remove 
the Door token from the Corridor. At the beginning of the game, all 
Corridors have Open Doors.
	
If there are no Door tokens left in the pool when you are instructed 
to place a Door, take any Door token on the board and place it in the 
required Corridor.
	
If several Intruders are moving from the same Room, their movement 
is considered simultaneous: they destroy the Door and all stay in the start-
ing Room.
	
If a Noise roll causes an Intruder to come from a Corridor with a Closed 
Door, the Intruder appears regardless of the Closed Door. 

ENCouNTEr 
An Encounter is any instance of an Intruder appearing on board in 
a Room where a Character is present (after drawing an Intruder to-
ken from the Intruder bag).
 
See more – Noise roll, page 15.
	
An Encounter may also be triggered by the effects of some Event cards 
(like Hatching) or some of the Intruder Attack cards.
	
Note: An Intruder moving from one Room to another Room containing 
a Character does not count as an Encounter.
To resolve an Encounter, follow the steps listed below:
	
1) Discard all Noise markers from all the Corridors connected 
to this Room (including Technical Corridors, if there is a Technical 
Corridors Entrance).
	
2) Draw 1 Intruder token from the Intruder bag.
	
Each Intruder token has an Intruder Symbol on one side, and 
a number on the opposite side.
	
3) Place an Intruder miniature in the Room. The Intruder type 
must correspond to the Intruder Symbol shown on the token. For 
a description of each Intruder symbol, see the Intruder board.
	
4) Compare the number on the Intruder token with the number 
of cards in the player’s hand (Action and Contamination cards are 
counted).
	
If the number of Action cards in the player’s hand is lower than 
the number in the Intruder token, a Surprise Attack occurs.
	
If the number of Action cards is equal to or higher, nothing hap-
pens.
	
Put the drawn Intruder token aside – it may return to the bag if 
an Intruder of that type hides (by entering the Technical Corridors 
during the Intruder Movement).
Surprise Attack:
The Surprise Attack is an Intruder Attack which only occurs during 
an Encounter. If the player has fewer cards in their hand than the 
the number printed on the drawn Intruder token, a Surprise Attack 
takes place.
 
 BLANK ToKEN 
If a player draws the Blank token, place a Noise marker in each Cor-
ridor connected to the Room in which this Encounter took place. 
If the Blank token was the last token in the Intruder bag:
Add 1 Adult Intruder token to the Intruder bag.
	
If there are no Adult Intruder tokens available, nothing happens. 
	
Return the Blank token to the Intruder bag. 
	
This Encounter ends.
Entering a room 
with an Intruder 
Each time a Character enters a Room occupied by an Intruder, do 
not resolve an Encounter. The Intruder and the Character are im-
mediately considered to be in Combat.
ENCouNTEr AND CoMBAT 
CoMBAT 
Whenever both a Character and an Intruder are in the same Room, 
they are considered to be in Combat.
	
In Combat, a Character may attack an Intruder or Escape during 
their Action round. Intruders attack Characters during the Event Phase.
	
Some Actions cannot be used during Combat – see “Out of Combat 
Only” icon, page 12.
 
More on rounds – see Player Phase, page 10.
 
 
CHArACTEr ATTACKS INTruDEr 
The Character may attack an Intruder in the same Room using 
a Shoot Action or a Melee Attack Action during their round.
 
More on rounds – see page 10, more on Actions – see page 12.
SHooT ACTIoN – if a Character is in a Room with an 
Intruder and has a Weapon with at least 1 Ammo, they may perform 
a Shoot Basic Action against that Intruder:
1) Choose a Weapon and 1 Intruder you want to shoot.
2) Discard 1 Ammo from that Weapon’s card.
3) Roll the Combat die.
	
Combat die results:
– You miss your target.
– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your 
target. If not, you miss.
– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal 
1 Injury to your target. If not, you miss.
– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 
– Deal 2 Injuries to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 
	
Important, some Weapons have special rules that may modify the 
Shooting Action.
 
More on Weapons – see Items, page 22.
 
More on Intruder Injuries and death – see page 20.
ENCOUNTER EXAMPLE
Our Scout is moving from the Hibernatorium to the neighboring 
Room. There are 2 Noise markers in the Corridors connected to 
that Room. 
 As always when entering an empty Room, the Scout’s player 
must perform a Noise roll. The result is 2 and, since there is 
already a Noise marker, an Encounter takes place.
	 The player removes all the Noise markers from the Corridors 
connected to that Room and draws an Intruder token from the 
Intruder bag. It is an Adult Intruder token showing the number 
“4” on its back side. This number is compared with number of 
cards in the player’s hand (including any Contamination cards) – 
only three cards in this case.
	 As the player does not have enough cards, a Surprise Attack 
takes place and an Intruder Attack card is drawn and resolved. 

 
COMBAT EXAMPLE
Here, our Scout tries to shoot an Intruder with her Scientist’s 
Pistol. After spending 1 Action card, she also discards 1 Ammo 
from the Weapon card and rolls the Attack die.
	 The result is 2 Hits, but the Scientist’s Pistol card states that 
rolls of 2 Hits are treated as 1 Hit. Only 1 Injury marker is placed 
on the Intruder miniature.
	 After placing the Injury marker, the Injury effect is checked 
(representing the Intruder’s endurance). 1 Intruder card is drawn 
and only the number in the “blood” icon is considered and com-
pared to the number of Injury markers on the Intruder. As it is 
higher, the Intruder is fine.
ESCAPE EXAMPLE
After dealing an Injury to the Intruder, the Scout decides to Es-
cape. The player spends an Action card (Movement Cost), and 
decides to move to the Hibernatorium.
	 As Intruders attack any Character trying to Escape, an Intruder 
Attack card is drawn. It is a Bite card, with the Adult Intruder 
symbol: the attack hits the Scout, dealing her a Serious Wound. 
Bitten and seriously wounded, the Scout moves to the Hiberna-
torium.
MELEE ATTACK ACTIoN – if a Character is in 
a Room with an Intruder, they may perform a Basic Melee Attack 
Action against that Intruder:
1) Draw 1 Contamination card and add it to your Action discard pile.
2) Choose 1 Intruder you want to attack.
3) Roll the Combat die.
	
Combat die results:
– You miss your target and your Character suffers 1 Serious 
Wound.
– If your target is a Larva or Creeper, deal 1 Injury to your 
target.
	
If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 Serious Wound.
– If your target is a Larva, Creeper or Adult Intruder, deal 
1 Injury to your target.
	
If not, you miss and your Character suffers 1 Serious Wound.
– Deal 1 Injury to your target (regardless of the Intruder’s 
– Deal 1 Injury (yes, only 1!) to your target (regardless of 
the Intruder’s type).
 
More on Intruder Injuries and death – see page 20.
 
More on Serious Wounds – see page 21.
CHArACTEr ESCApE 
A Character may also try to Escape from Combat by performing 
a Movement Action to go to a neighboring Room (explored or unex-
plored). Before you move your miniature, resolve an Intruder Attack.
 
	
If there is more than 1 Intruder in the Room you are trying to Escape 
from, resolve a separate Intruder Attack for each Intruder.
	
If your Character survives, you end your Movement in the neigh-
boring Room.
 
If there is no one in that Room, perform a Noise roll. If it was an unex-
plored Room, Explore it according to the standard rules.
	
If you die, your Character Corpse stays in the Room you tried to 
Escape from.
	
Important: Some Actions, other than the Basic Movement Action, allow 
a Character to Escape, but additionally modify this rule – for example Sup-
pressive Fire, Covering Fire (see the Action cards).
	
Note: If the Character Escapes to a Room without any other Characters 
or Intruders, perform a Noise roll just like after a standard move.
Desperate times call for desperate measures. 
A metal pipe, a heavy tool, a rifle butt, 
anything can become an improvised weapon 
in a hopeless situation. Close combat works 
like shooting, but the risks are far greater. 
If the attack fails to hit, then the character 
immediately suffers a Serious Wound, in 
addition of the risk of being contaminated.

INTruDEr ATTACK 
Intruder Attacks happen in three cases:
	
Surprise Attack 
 
More on Surprise Attack – see Encounter, page 18.
	
Intruder Attack step in the Event Phase 
 
See more – Event Phase: Intruder Attack, page 10.
	
Character’s Escape
 
More on Escape – see page 19.
	
Each Intruder Attack follows the steps below:
	
1) Choose the Character who is the target of this Intruder Attack. 
The Intruder may only attack a Character in the same Room.
	
If there is more than one Character in the Room, Intruders al-
ways attack the Character whose player has the fewest Action cards 
in their hand. In the event of a draw, the Character with the First 
Player token (or the next player in turn order) is attacked.
	
In case of a Surprise Attack, the Character targeted is the one 
who triggered the Encounter.
	
In case of an Escape, the Character targeted is the one who is 
performing the Escape Action.
	
2) Draw and resolve 1 Intruder Attack card:
	
If the card displays an Intruder Symbol corresponding to the 
attacking Intruder, resolve the effect described on the card.
	
If not, the attack misses.
 
Explanation of Intruder Symbols – see the Intruder board.
 
Important: During an Intruder Attack, ignore the “blood” icon in the up-
per left corner of the Intruder Attack card.
	
After resolving an Intruder Attack card, it is placed in the Intruder 
discard pile.
If you run out of cards in the Intruder Attack deck, take its discard 
pile and reshuffle it. It becomes the new Intruder Attack deck.
EXAMPLE OF AN INTRUDER ATTACK CARD
	 1) Intruder endurance. Only used when checking if an Intruder 
dies after receiving one or more Injury tokens.
	 2) Intruder symbols. They show all different types of Intrud-
ers that can use this Attack. When a card is drawn during any 
Intruder Attack (either during an Encounter or the Event Phase), 
if one of its symbols matches the attacking Intruder type, then 
the Attack Effect of the card is resolved.
	 3) Intruder Attack Effect. In this example, the targeted Charac-
ter gets a Slime marker and 1 Contamination card.
INFEST 
If the Intruder Attack is performed by a Larva, do not draw any 
Intruder Attack cards. Apply the following instead:
	
remove the Larva miniature from the board and place it on the 
Character board of the target of this attack, on the miniature picture.
	
the targeted player gets 1 Contamination Card.
 
More on Contamination cards – see below.
CoNTAMINATIoN CArDS
In addition to Wounds, Characters may get Contamination cards (for 
example as the result of some Intruder Attacks).
	
When a Character gets a Contamination card (regardless of the 
source), draw it from the Contamination deck and place it on top of 
their Action discard pile.
	
Contamination cards are a disadvantage for the player, because 
they are kept in hand like a normal Action card, but they do not pro-
vide any additional Actions and you cannot spend them to pay the 
Costs of the other Actions.
	
Each Contamination card contains hidden information: the Char-
acter may be INFECTED or not. This information is hidden by colorful 
patterns in the text field. Unless the card is “Scanned”, this informa-
tion remains unknown to the player until the end of the game. 
	
If the Character does not Scan their Contamination cards before 
the end of the game, then at the end of the game, they may lose the 
game because of these cards. 
 
More on Victory Check – see Player’s Goals and End of the Game, page 11.
	
Note: Some Event cards may force the player to Scan their Contamina-
tion cards.
SCANNING AND rEMovING
CoNTAMINATIoN CArDS 
A Character may try to get rid of their Contamination cards through 
several different ways (like the Rest Action card, a Canteen, Shower 
or Surgery Room Action and the Antidote Item Action). 
	
Each card/Room description details the procedure to follow. 
Whatever the procedure, it requires a Scan of the Contamination 
cards. A Scan is performed in the following way:
INTruDEr INJurIES 
AND DEATH 
 
 
 
 “Blood” icon Intruder Carcass token
W
hen any Intruder suffers Injuries (for example as a result of 
a successful Character attack or from Fire), place the cor-
responding number of Injury markers on its base.
	
Then, check the Injury Effect:
	
Larva and Egg – 1 Injury is enough to kill them. Remove their 
miniature from the board.
	
Creeper or Adult Intruder – draw 1 Intruder Attack card, ig-
nore everything on this card except the “blood” icon in the upper left 
corner of the card.
	
If the number in the “blood” icon of the card is equal to or lower 
than the current number of Injury markers on this Intruder, it is 
killed – remove its miniature and place 1 Intruder Carcass token 
in the Room where it was slain (indicating from now on an Intruder 
Carcass Object).
	
If the number in the “blood” icon is higher, the Intruder is still alive.
	
Breeder or Queen – draw 2 Intruder Attack cards, add the 
value of their “blood” icons, and compare the total to the current 
number of Injury markers of this Intruder. Resolve the result using 
the same method as above for the Creeper and the Adult Intruder.
 
Note: The “blood” icon represents the current “endurance” of the In-
truder. This value may vary for a given individual, depending on the cards 
drawn after each successful attack.
 
There are also two “Five Injuries” tokens provided, which may help you 
with tracking Injuries on bigger Intruders – such as Queen or Breeders.
 
Retreat icon
INTruDEr rETrEAT 
Intruders might seem savage, but they are not 
mindless. They can run away if they suffer too 
many wounds, or if someone is lucky enough to 
damage one of their vulnerable parts.
	
During the Injury Effect check, if there is a Retreat arrow in the 
“blood” icon of any of the drawn Intruder Attack cards, then this 
Intruder flees:
	
Draw an Event card and move the Intruder through the Corri-
dor whose number appears in the Intruder movement section of the 
card. Then, discard that Event card.
 
More on Event cards – see page 10.
  The Queen and the Breeders will retreat if any of the 2 Intruder Attack 
cards drawn displays the Retreat symbol.

CHArACTEr WouNDS 
AND DEATH 
During the game, Characters may suffer two types of Wounds: Light 
and Serious.
Light Wounds
When a Character suffers a Light Wound, place 
a Wound marker in the upper space of the 
Light Wound Track on their Character board.
	 If a Wound marker is already there, move it to 
the lower space. A marker on the lower space of 
the Light Wounds Track means 2 Light Wounds.
	 If there is already a Wound marker on the low-
er space, discard it from the Light Wound Track 
and the Character suffers a Serious Wound.
Serious Wound
When a Character suffers a Serious Wound, 
draw 1 Serious Wound card and place it next 
to the Character board. From now on, the 
player is affected by the effect described on 
that card.
	 Each type of Serious Wound has a different ef-
fect, described on its card.
When a Character with 3 Serious Wounds suffers any additional 
Wound (Light or Serious), they are instantly killed.
	
When a Character dies, remove their miniature from the board 
and place a Character Corpse token in the Room where they died – 
from now on, it is considered as a Character Corpse Object.
	
When a Character dies, they drop all their Heavy Objects in the 
Room they died in.
	
Important: If a Character has several copies of identical Serious Wounds 
cards, their effects are not cumulative. It will be more difficult to get rid of 
their effects, though.
 
Mode: Play as an Intruder – see Game Modes, page 27.
 
More on Heavy Items and Objects – see page 22.
DrESSING AND HEALING WouNDS
During the game, a player may Dress and Heal their Wounds in many 
ways (using Clothes, Bandages, Medkit Item cards or the Emer-
gency Room Action).
	
Each relevant Item card or Room Action details the Wound treat-
ment. It can be either Dress or Heal. 
	 Dress Serious Wound – flip a Serious 
Wound card affecting the Character on its backside. From now on, 
its effect is ignored, but it still counts against the limit of 3 Serious 
Wounds.
	 Heal – either remove (in case of a Light Wound) or discard 
(in case of a Dressed Serious Wound card) the Wound mentioned in 
the Action effect.
 
More on Item cards – see Objects and Items, page 22.
Intruder 
Weakness cards 
During game setup, you placed 3 random Weakness cards (face 
down) on the 3 Intruder Weakness slots on the Intruder board. Dur-
ing the game you will have the possibility to discover these 3 Weak-
nesses. They represent the crew gaining gradual knowledge on the 
lifeform that infests the ship.
	
Each of the 3 Weakness cards is placed in a space correspond-
ing to a different Object: 1) Character Corpse, 2) Intruder Egg, 
3) Intruder Carcass.
	
To discover a given Weakness card, any Character must research 
the corresponding Object in the Laboratory Room.
 
More on research in the Laboratory – see Room sheet, page 24.
 
More on Objects – see Items and Objects, page 22.
Object tokens:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Intruder Egg Intruder Carcass Character Corpse
	
After researching an Object, reveal the corresponding Weakness 
card – flip it face up and leave it on the Intruder board. 
	
Discovered Weakness cards modify the basic rules of the Intrud-
ers, giving all players a small advantage against them.
SCANNING CONTAMINATION CARDS EXAMPLE
The Captain decides to perform a Rest Action, which requires 
him to Scan his Contamination card.
	 He places the Scanner on his Contamination card and discov-
ers that he is INFECTED!
	 He takes the Contamination card back into his hand, and a 
Larva miniature is placed on his Character board, indicating that 
the Captain has been infected by an Intruder at some point during 
the game.
 The Captain’s player must quickly find a way to get rid of this 
parasite. The best ways would be a Surgery Room Action or an 
Antidote Item.
	
Take the Scanner and place its red foil part over the coded field of the 
Contamination card you’re Scanning. In one of the lines of text, the word 
INFECTED may appear. If not, the card is NOT INFECTED.
	
Note: Look closely at the cards, because some of the coded words may 
be seemingly similar to INFECTED.
	
In both of these cases, any additional Scanning effect is explained in 
the description of the given Action card, Room Action or Item Action.
 
More on Room Actions – see Room sheet, page 24.
	
If you’re INFECTED, place a Larva miniature on your Character board 
(and do not remove this Contamination card!).
	
If there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character 
dies – additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
	
If any rule asks you to remove a Contamination card, remove this 
card from the game.
As the old saying goes, if it bleeds, we can kill it. 
But what if we can’t be sure whether the fluid 
coming out of the alien wretch is, in fact, blood? 
Either way, it’s helpful to know that shooting 
the Intruders hurts them. The problem is, you 
can never be sure how bad their condition is and 
if you can kill them before ammo runs out...
	
The crew has no past experience with 
Intruders, and so players cannot be sure how 
much damage is needed to kill one! 

H
aving appropriate Items will often make the difference between 
life and death for a Character. Items may be obtained in a few 
different ways:
	
Each Character starts the game with 1 dedicated Item card 
(Weapon).
	
Each Character starts the game with 2 Quest Items. These 
2 cards are placed face down on their horinzontal side. Once their 
requirements are fulfilled, the cards are flipped face up on their verti-
cal side and become normal Item cards.
	
During the game, a Character may also find various Items in 
the Rooms, using the Search Action card.
 
More on Search Action – see page 23.
	
During the game, a Character may also create special Crafted 
Items by assembling other Items in their possession using the Craft 
Basic action.
 
More on Craft Action – see page 23.
	
The Characters may also discover Heavy Objects during the 
game (Character Corpse, Intruder Carcass and Eggs), which are not 
represented by cards but by special tokens or miniatures. They can be 
carried around by the Characters. These Objects don’t have their own 
rules and they are used at specific times – when an Action card, Room 
Action or Event calls for it (for example, the Laboratory Room Action).
	
Important: Some Items are marked as One Use Only: after using such an 
Item, its card is discarded.
CHArACTEr HANDS 
AND INvENTorY 
There are two types of Item cards: Heavy Items (kept in the Charac-
ter’s Hands) and normal Items (kept in the Inventory). Characters 
may also carry Heavy Objects tokens.
INvENTorY 
All normal Items may be kept secret from the other players – put them 
in your Inventory (plastic card holder), so the other players can only see 
the card backs. The other players can see the color of the Items in your 
Inventory, but they do not know exactly what you have there. However, 
when any Item card is used, it must be shown to all the other players.
	
There is no limit to the number of Items that can be placed in your 
Inventory.
Hand Icon AND HEAvY
ITEMS and oBJECTS 
Heavy Items (as Weapons) are indicated by the Hand 
icon. They can never be kept secret from the other players and can-
not be put in the Inventory.
	
When you find/gain a Heavy Item (or pick up a Heavy Object) you want 
to keep, it must be placed in one of the two Hand slots of the Character, 
meaning that a Character may carry up to 2 Heavy Items/Objects.
 
More on Hand slots – see Character boards.
	
If both of the Character’s Hand slots are already taken and you 
want to take another Heavy Item / Object, you must Drop 1 of the 
carried Heavy Items/Objects. 
 
More on Drop – see below.
	
Each Weapon acquired by Searching comes into play loaded with 
1 AMMO token. A Weapon can never exceed its Ammo capacity, 
shown on the Weapon card.
	
Sometimes, you can Add an Item card to another Item card (like the Ex-
tended Magazine or the Autoloader). It means that the added item is placed 
next to the indicated Item card. From now on, both cards are treated as one.
	
Important: The Duct Tape Item card allows you to combine 2 Heavy 
Items, so they take up only 1 Hand slot – but it doesn’t apply to Objects!
 
Important: A Weapon can never exceed its Ammo capacity, shown on 
the Weapon card.
	
Heavy Items are Item cards showing the Hand icon.
	
Heavy Objects are tokens: Intruder Eggs (they are most often found in 
the Nest Room), Character Corpse (the Character Corpse token, represent-
ing either a dead Character or the body found in the Hibernatorium at the 
start of the game), Intruder Carcass (a Carcass token is placed after the 
death of any Intruder – with the exception of Larvae).
EXAMPLE OF AN ITEM CARD:
1) Blue Component icon – means that this card can be used 
during a Craft Action as a component for the Molotov Cocktail.
2) “Out of Combat Only” icon – this icon indicates if this item 
can only be used in Combat, out of Combat or anytime (in the 
latter case, there is no icon in the upper right corner of the card).
3) One Use Only – as indicated by the yellow text, Bandages are 
discarded after use. After performing the Bandages Item Action, 
the card is discarded in the appropriate discard pile.
4) Action Cost – You must discard 1 Action card to perform 
this Action.
5) Action effect – Describes the different effects of the Action. 
Bandages can be used to either dress 1 Serious Wound or to 
Heal all Light Wounds.
6) OR – Indicates that you must choose between the two pos-
sible effects of the Action. 
oBJECTS AND ITEMS 
Drop 
A Character may freely Drop any Item / Object from their Hands / 
Inventory any time during their turn without using an Action.
	
Objects remain in the Room where they are dropped. 
	
Items are lost – discard their card.
This ship is full of useful stuff. Sometimes you 
just have to look around the room for a few 
moments. This Fire Extinguisher might come in 
handy, those Chemicals with a Zippo will do as 
a Flamethrower.

CrAFTING 
The fourth (Blue) deck of Item cards contains Crafted Items. These 
Items cannot be found by searching the Rooms. They can be assembled 
with a Craft Item Basic Action, using other Items in your possession.
	
You may look through the Crafting deck at any moment of the game. 
Cards from it are never drawn during the game, instead, when Crafting an 
Item, look for corresponding Crafted Item card and take it.
 
More on the Craft Item Action – see Basic Actions, page 13.
	
Crafted Item cards display 2 grey Component icons representing 
the Components required to build this Item.
	
The Item cards that can be used as components for Crafted Items 
display a blue Component icon, representing a specific Component 
that can be used (by discarding the card) to build a Crafted Item.
	
To build a Crafted Item, you must perform a Craft Item Basic 
Action and discard two Item cards showing the blue Component 
icons corresponding to the grey Components icons of the Crafted 
Item you want to build (the first Item card corresponding to the first 
required Component icon, and the second Item card corresponding 
to the second required Component icon).
	
You can build four different Crafted Items during the game:
	
 
 
= ANTIDOTE
	
 
 
= TASER
	
 
 
= FLAMETHROWER
	
 
 
= MOLOTOV COCKTAIL
	
A Crafted Item cannot be built if its card is not available, even if you have 
the required blue components.
 
More on these 4 Items – see Item cards.
SEARCH EXAMPLE
The Scout performs a Search Action in the Cabins. She discards 
a Search Action card and decreases the Item Counter by one.
	 As the Cabins are a white Room, the Scout can draw 2 Item cards 
from any one Item deck. She decides to look for weapons and am-
munition and draws from the Red Item deck.
	 The player decides (in secret from the other players) to keep the 
Energy Charge and discards (face-down) the Grenade back into the 
Red Item deck. The Energy Charge is placed into the Scout’s Inven-
tory, showing only the back of the card to the other players.
SEArCHING 
	
Apart from the Character-dedicated Items (1 Weapon and 2 Quest 
Items), there are 4 colors of Items in the game: 
	
Red (Military),
	
Yellow (Technical),
	
Green (Medical),
	
Blue (Crafted).
	
Three of these decks (Red, Yellow, Green) contain Items which 
can be found in Rooms when using a Search Action.
 
More on Search Action – see Search Action card in the Action decks.
	
The color of any Item found during a Search Action should match 
the color of the searched Room (yellow Items in yellow Room etc.). 
	
A Room’s color is the background color under its name and rule text.
	
When searching in a white Room, the player can choose to draw 
from any of these 3 decks.
	
Each time a Character performs a Search Action in a Room, the Item 
Counter of that Room is reduced by 1. When the Item Counter reaches 
0, the Room has been emptied and cannot be searched anymore.
 
There are some exceptions to this rule, like the Scout’s Scavenging Action.
 
More on rotate Room tile – see page 14.
 
quest Items 
Quest Items are NOT available for you to use from the start. Each of 
them has a special condition you must meet to unlock this Item dur-
ing the game (specified on the horizontal side of their cards).
	
When you manage to activate a Quest item, you can flip it and 
treat it as a standard Item (it can occupy a Hand slot, might be dis-
carded, given away, etc.)
<<< objects and items >>>
ATTACKING pLAYERS
Years of accumulated knowledge of 
space travels suggest that placing a 
small group of people in a cramped metal 
can flying through the unknown for an 
extended period generates undesirable 
tensions. To prevent serious conflict 
among ship crews, space corporations 
spend billions of dollars equipping their 
crews with implants which create a 
strong psychic barrier and inhibit direct 
violence against Homo sapiens. This is why 
crew members cannot directly attack one 
another.
	
Characters cannot directly attack other Characters, but 
they may (accidentally or intentionally) harm other Characters 
as a side effect of their actions. Cutting someone off in a room 
on fire, activating self-destruct with people still on board, 
throwing a grenade at an Intruder in a room with other crew 
members are just a few of the many possibilities…

T
o perform any Room Action, a Character must be in the corre-
sponding Room (unless they possesses a special ability clearly 
saying otherwise).
	
You cannot perform a Room Action when you are in Combat. 
You cannot perform a Room Action in a Room with a Malfunction 
marker.
rooms with a computer 
Some Rooms have a Computer icon, meaning that 
there is a Computer in that Room. A Computer icon 
has no significance except when some rule refers to 
it (some Action cards, Item cards or Event cards).
 If there is a Malfunction marker in the Room, the 
Computer is unavailable – as if there was no Computer Icon.
BASIC rooMS "1" 
All the 11 Basic Rooms, indicated by the num­ber “1” on their back, 
are present in each game.
Armory
recharge your Energy Weapon: 
Add 2 Ammo tokens to 1 of your Energy Weapons.
Note: This Room Action does not reload Classic Weapons.
 
Note: A Weapon can never exceed its Ammo capacity, shown on the 
Weapon card.
Comms room
Send a Signal: 
Place a Status marker on the Signal space on your Char-
acter board.
	
Sending a Signal is a requirement for some Objectives and has no other 
game use than that.
Emergency room
Treat your Wounds: 
Dress all your Serious Wounds OR Heal 1 of your Dressed 
Serious Wounds OR Heal all your Light Wounds.
 
More on Dressing and Healing Wounds – see page 21.
Evacuation Section A
Try to enter an Escape pod: 
You may perform this Action only if any Escape Pod in Sec-
tion A is Unlocked and has at least 1 empty space.
	
Make a Noise roll. If any Intruder appears in this Room, your 
attempt to enter an Escape Pod fails.
	
After resolving your Noise roll, if no Intruder has reached the 
Room, place your Character in one of the Unlocked Escape Pods of 
Section A, if there’s any free space (each Pod has two places and 
may accommodate up to 2 Characters).
	
See the Escape Pods section at the end of this Room sheet to 
determine what happens once the Character has entered a Pod.
	
You cannot enter an Escape Pod if any Intruder is present in its cor-
responding Evacuation Section Room.
 
Evacuation Section B
As above, but applies to Section B.
Fire Control System
Initiate the Fire Control procedure: 
Choose any 1 Room. 
Discard a Fire marker from that Room (if there is one). 
	
All the Intruders in that Room run away (in a random direction, 
determined by drawing an Event card – 1 Event card for each Intruder).
	
Hint: You can use Fire Control Procedure even if there is no Fire marker in 
the Room to make all the Intruders run away from that Room.
 
More on Intruder movement – see Event Phase, page 10 and 15.
Generator
Initiate / stop self-destruct Sequence:
self-destruct SEquENCE:
	
Place 1 Status marker on the first, green space of the Self-De-
struct Track. 
	
From now on, each time you move the Time marker on the Track, 
also move the marker on the Self-Destruct Track by 1 space.
	
When any Character stops the Self-Destruct sequence, remove 
the marker (it will be placed again on the green space if a new 
sequence starts).
	
When the marker reaches any yellow space on the Self-Destruct 
Track, the Self-Destruct Sequence cannot be aborted anymore and 
all Escape Pods are Unlocked instantly (but can be Locked again).
	
When the marker reaches the last space (with the “skull” icon), 
the ship explodes. 
	
Note: You cannot start the Self-Destruct when any of the Characters are 
already hibernating.
 
	
If a hyperspace jump happens while the Self-Destruct Sequence is ac-
tive, the ship is still considered destroyed.
 
See more – Event Phase, page 10.
 
Laboratory
Analyse 1 object: 
This Action may only be performed if one of the following 
Objects is in the Room (for example carried by the Charac-
ter): Characters Corpse, Intruder Carcass or Egg. 
	
Discover 1 corresponding Intruder Weakness card.
	
The Object is not discarded after Research. You may Drop it for free, though.
 
More on Intruder Weakness cards – see page 21.
 
More on Objects – see page 22.
rooM SHEET 
Intruders run away from fire extinguishers like 
crazy. We have no idea why, but as they say “if 
it’s stupid, but it works, it ain’t stupid”.

<<< room sheet >>>
ADDITIoNAL rooMS "2"
Each game, only 5 randomly chosen Additional Rooms are used, out of the 
9 available. These Rooms are indicated by the num­ber “2” on their back. 
Airlock Control
Start Emergency Airlock procedure: 
Choose any 1 other Yellow Room. The Corridors connected to 
the Room you choose must not contain any Destroyed Doors.
	
Automatically close the Door in each Corridor connected to this Room.
	
Place the Airlock Procedure token in this Room to represent the 
active Emergency Airlock Procedure. If any of the Doors in Corridors 
connected to this Room are opened before the current Player Phase 
ends, remove this token.
	
If all Doors in each Corridor connected to this Room are Closed 
at the end of the current Player Phase (after all players have passed), 
everything in that Room dies immediately (both Characters and In-
truders). Then, remove this token.
	
If there was a Fire marker in this Room, remove it.
	
Yellow Room means a Room with a yellow background on the Action part.
Cabins
Catch a breath: 
When your Character is in this Room at the start of a new turn, and 
there are no Intruders there, draw 1 additional Action card (up to 6 
instead of 5).
	
The passive feature of this Room does not work if there is a Mal-
function token in the Room.
Canteen
Have a Snack...
Heal 1 Light Wound.
Additionally, you may choose to Scan all Contamination 
cards in your hand and to remove all Non Infected cards.
	
If at least one of those cards is Infected, place a Larva miniature on 
your Character board (and do not remove this Contamination card!). If 
there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character dies 
– additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
 
Command Center
open/close Doors: 
You can choose any 1 Room and Close/Open any Doors in 
Corridors connected to that Room.
	
You may choose which Doors to Close and which to Open. You do not 
have to Open or Close them all.
Engine 
control room
Check Engines Status: 
You can Check the Status of the 3 Engines.
You can check the status of the Engines even if there is a Malfunc-
tion marker in the Engine Room.
	
In the Engine Control Room you cannot change the Engines status.
 
More on checking Engine status – see Engines, Room sheet, page 26.
Hatch Control 
System
Lock/unlock 1 Escape pod: 
Flip 1 Escape Pod token to its Locked or Unlocked side.
More on Evacuation Sections – see Room sheet, page 24.
 
Monitoring room
Check 1 room and Exploration token: 
Secretly look at any 1 unexplored Room tile and at its Ex-
ploration token. 
	
After looking at them, place them back on the board. You don’t 
have to tell the truth about what you saw.
 
More on Exploration tokens – see page 14.
room covered 
with slime
You are Slimed!
	
When you enter this Room, you automatically get a Slime marker.
 
	
Shower room
Take a Shower:
If you have a Slime marker on your Character board, discard it.
Additionally, you may choose to Scan all Contamination 
cards in your hand and to remove all Non Infected cards.
	
If at least one of those cards is Infected, place a Larva miniature on 
your Character board (and do not remove this Contamination card!). If 
there is already a Larva on your Character board, your Character dies 
– additionally, place 1 Creeper in the Room where you died.
 
 
	
Note: A Fire marker can be placed in the Shower Room in the normal 
way. The Take a Shower Action does not discard a Fire marker from the 
Shower Room.
 
Nest
Take one Egg:
Take 1 Egg token from the Intruder Board. After that, per-
form a Noise roll.
	
The Egg tokens placed on the Intruder board represent the Eggs 
in the Nest. When you take (or destroy) Eggs from the Nest, take 
them from the Intruder board.
	
When there are no more Eggs in the Nest (they have all been 
carried away or destroyed), the Nest is considered destroyed – place 
1 Injury marker in the Nest to represent this.
	
If there is a Fire marker in a Room containing uncarried Eggs, 
destroy 1 uncarried Egg during the Fire Damage step of the Event 
Phase.
 
See more – Event Phase, page 10.
	
Note: Remember that an Egg is a Heavy Object (see Items and Objects, 
page 22).
	
	 DestroYING Eggs: 
	
Whenever your Character is in a Room with any uncarried Eggs 
(not carried by any Character), you can try to destroy these Eggs.
	
Resolve this Action as a Shoot Action or Melee Attack Action. 
Each Injury (of any type) destroys 1 Egg.
	
In the case of a Melee Attack Action, the Character does not draw 
a Contamination card or suffer Wounds if they miss.
	
You can also throw grenades into a Room with uncarried Eggs 
as if an Intruder were there. A Grenade destroys 2 Eggs, a Molotov 
Cocktail destroys 1 Egg.
	
After every single attempt to destroy an Egg, you must perform 
a Noise roll.
 
More on Noise roll – see Noise rolls, page 15.
Storage
Search for an Item: 
Draw 2 cards from the Item deck of a chosen color (Red, 
Yellow or Green). Pick 1 card and put the other at the bot-
tom of the deck.
Surgery
perform a Surgery procedure: 
Scan all Contamination cards (from your Action deck, hand 
and Discard). Remove all Infected cards.
	
If you have a Larva on your Character board, remove it.
	
After Scanning, your Character suffers 1 Light Wound and you 
automatically pass. Shuffle all your Action cards (including those in 
your hand) and place them in your Action deck.
	
Note: After a Surgery procedure you always pass your round, and your 
hand is empty until the start of the next turn.
 

ESCApE poDS
At the beginning of the game, all Escape Pods are Locked. During 
play, players may unlock them manually (by using some of the Item 
cards or Room Actions), or the pods will unlock automatically when 
any Character dies during the game or when the Self-Destruct mark-
er reaches any yellow space of the Self-Destruct Track.
 
More on manual unlock of Escape Pods – see Hatch Control System, 
Room sheet, page 25.
 
More on automatic unlock of Escape Pods – see Critical Gameplay Mo-
ments, page 12.
 
More on Self-Destruct – see Generator, Room sheet, page 24.
	
If a given Escape Pod is Unlocked, a Character may enter it (performing 
a Noise roll first) through the corresponding Evacuation Section Room, as 
long as there are no Intruders and no Malfunction token in the Room.
 
More on Evacuation Sections – see Room sheet, page 24.
	
After entering an Escape pod place the miniature of 
your Character on one of the two spaces of that Escape Pod token.
	
Afterwards, decide if you want to launch an Escape Pod immedi-
ately or wait (maybe for another Character who might want to enter 
the same Pod and take the second space in it).
	
If you launch immediately (or if you launch in one of 
the following turns) – remove the miniature of your Character and the 
Escape Pod token from the game. From now on, you do not take part 
in the game any longer. Will you end this game with a victory or not? 
You’ll find out during the Objectives Check at the End of the Game.
	
Any Character in a launched Escape Pod is always treated as if 
they have arrived on Earth.
 
	
If you wait, you can decide to launch the Escape Pod at the 
start of your first round during each Player Phase. You can also, if 
you wish, exit the Escape Pod voluntarily, without performing any 
Action – during your round, just place your Character miniature back 
in the Escape Hatch corresponding to the Pod you are leaving. How-
ever, if you do not launch the Escape Pod in your round, it means 
that you automatically pass this turn.
	
If (while you wait in the Escape Pod) an Intruder appears in this 
Evacuation Section Room, then all Characters in Escape Pods are 
automatically returned to that Evacuation Section Room.
	
Once another Character enters the same Escape Pod as you, they 
can decide to launch the Escape Pod immediately.
Note : Heavy objects do not occupy any Character space in an Escape Pod.
 
Empty Escape Pods slots
Locked Escape Pods
Unlocked Escape Pods
SpECIAL rooMS 
The 5 Special Rooms always occupy the same place on the board – 
these Rooms have their own specific shapes and are printed on the 
board. All are treated as explored at the start of the game.
	
Special Rooms are treated as normal Rooms, except that they are 
explored at the beginning of the game and that Characters cannot 
perform any Search Action in these Rooms. They can receive Fire or 
Malfunction markers normally.
Cockpit
Flight Controls: 
Check Coordinates OR set Destination.
CHECK CoorDINATES: Secretly look at 
the Coordinates card. After looking at it, place it back on the board. 
You don’t need to tell the truth about what you saw.
	 SET DESTINATIoN: Move the Destination marker to 
the chosen space of the Destination Track.
	
Note: You cannot change the Destination when any of the Characters are 
already hibernating.
 
The player should remember the Coordinates they’ve checked.
	
You may never Set Destination if there is an Intruder in the Cockpit.
	
Note: At the end of the game, if the ship was not destroyed earlier, the 
Coordinates card is revealed. The position of the Destination marker indicates 
the destination of the ship among the four available on the Coordinates card.
 
See more – Coordinates Check at the End of the Game, page 11.
	
Note: You cannot perform a Search Action in this Room.
 
Engine #1
Check the Engine: 
Check the Engine status in this Engine Room – secretly look 
at the top Engine token. 
	
You don’t need to tell the truth about what you saw.
	
The top Engine token indicates the current state of the Engine!
	 rEpAIr (or BrEAK) ENGINE: 
	
Your Character can perform a Repair / Break Engine Action in 
this Room (using a Repairs Action or a Tools Item card): take both 
Engine tokens, secretly check their contents and place them back in 
the order of your choice. 
	
You do not have to tell the truth if you have repaired the Engine or 
not, but you must tell if you have changed the order of the tokens.
	
You can Repair / Break Engine even if there is a Malfunction marker 
in the Room and even if you have not checked the status of the Engines.
 
Note: The ship has 3 Engines, two of which must be functional to safely 
journey back to Earth. At the start of the game, the players don’t know which 
Engine is functional or not. Players may check the Status of a given Engine 
during the game – for example in its corresponding Engine Room. At the 
end of the game, if the ship was not destroyed earlier, all the top Engine to-
kens are revealed to determine if the ship explodes or not during its attempt 
at a hyperspace jump.
 
See more – Engines Check at the End of the Game, page 11.
	
Engine #2
As above, but applies to Engine #2.
Engine #3
As above, but applies to Engine #3.
Hibernatorium
Try to hibernate: 
You may perform this Action only if the hibernation chambers 
are open – the token on the Time Track is on any blue space.
	
Perform a Noise roll. If any Intruder shows up in this Room, your 
attempt at entering the hibernation chamber has failed.
	
If no Intruder appears, remove your Character miniature from the 
game – you managed to hibernate safely. From now on, you do not 
take part in the game any longer. Whether your Character survives or 
dies along with the ship will be determined at the End of the Game.
	
You cannot change the Destination or start the Self-Destruct 
when any of the Characters are already hibernating.
	
You may never enter a hibernation chamber if there is any Intruder in the 
Hibernatorium.
 
 
More on Noise rolls – see Noise roll, page 15.
	
 
Note: The ship’s AI is programmed to protect crew members in hiberna-
tion and prevents any maneuver that put their lives at risk.
<<< room sheet >>>
 

Alternative side 
of the board 
This additional ship layout was unlocked during the crowdfunding cam-
paign.
	
It is printed on the back side of the board. While working as a normal 
ship board, it is primarily designed for campaign play. You can use it in 
any game mode, but keep in mind that it is more difficult to survive on it.
	
One of the features of this ship layout is the double set of Technical 
Corridors. They work as usual, but each one is not connected to the other 
(any Noise marker in the “red” Technical Corridors is separate from the 
“blue” Technical Corridors).
	
Another feature is that some of the Rooms are connected to another 
Room through a pair of Corridors. They are separate from each other, so 
any Closed Doors in one Corridor do not affect the other.
	
During Game Setup, place the Evacuation sections A and B face up on 
the highlighted spot on the above map. Place an Exploration token face 
down on each section (when a Character enters these Rooms for the first 
time, proceed with the standard Exploration procedure).
Solo & Cooperative
mode 
Solo MoDe 
This additional game mode was unlocked during the crowdfunding 
campaign. While Nemesis shines as a standard, semi-cooperative 
game, you can also try to survive alone.
	
This mode has its own special Objectives deck – solo/coop Ob-
jectives. At the start of the game, draw two cards from this deck, 
instead of the regular Objective cards.
	
Note: Once the first Encounter occurs, you must choose one of these 
two Objective cards.
	
Important: In this mode, the number of items available in each room is 
reduced by half, rounding up (if the Exploration Tokens shows 1-2 items – 
set the Item Counter to 1, if 3-4 – set the Item Counter to 2).
	
To win, you must fulfill your objective and survive.
FuLLY CoopErATIvE MoDE 
This additional game mode was unlocked during the crowdfunding 
campaign. It is intended for players who want to experience a fully 
cooperative version of the game, without having to fear betrayal from 
their companions.
	
This mode has its own special Objectives deck – solo/coop Ob-
jectives. At the start of the game, draw one card per player, instead 
of the regular Objective cards.
	
To win the game, ALL these Objectives must be fulfilled and at 
least 1 Character must survive.
 
Note: If there is one card requiring you to send the Signal – only one 
Character must do it. If there are two or more such requirements – that 
many Characters must send the Signal!
rEvIvE: In this fully cooperative mode, the Emergency Room is 
equipped with a specialized AutoDoc device, allowing the crew to 
revive any near-death person.
	
Whenever one of the Characters dies, another Character might 
pick up their Corpse token and carry it to the working Emergency 
Room.
	
A player whose Corpse is in the Emergency Room places their 
Character miniature there at the start of the turn. All their Light 
Wounds are discarded, and all their Serious Wounds are Dressed.
 
Important: the Emergency Room does not work if there’s an Intruder or 
a Malfunction token in it.
playing 
as an Intruder 
This mode is intended to allow the first eliminated player to keep on 
playing the game by controlling the Intruders. It also slightly increases 
the difficulty level for all the remaining players. Note that this mode is 
optional.
	
The player whose Character dies first gets to control the Intruders in-
festing the ship and can hunt down the other players.
 
IMPORTANT: Only one player takes over the Intruders – the first one to 
lose their Character. If two Characters die simultaneously, the player with 
the lower player number gets to control them.
Set up: The player controlling the Intruders removes all their former 
Character’s components from the game. They shuffle the special Intruder 
Player Action deck and place it in front of them.
	
Then, finish the current Turn according to the standard rules. Any 
changes are applied only at the start of the next Player Phase.
Turn Sequence: 
PLAYER PHASE
	
1. Draw Action Cards – the Intruder player draws 3 cards. Their hand 
limit is 4 cards.
	
2. First Player Token – the Intruder player is omitted during this 
phase (they never take the First Player token).
	
3. Player Rounds – the Intruder player follows the standard order of play 
for playing their rounds, but they can only take 1 Action (by playing a card 
from their hand) or pass.
	
When passing, the Intruder player may choose keep 1 card from their 
hand and discard the rest.
During their round, the Intruder Player can play an Intruder Action card 
in one of the three following ways:
	
1) MOVE – Move any Intruder through a Corridor with a number 
matching the one printed on the Intruder Action card.
	
Note: If the Intruder moves to a Technical Corridor, proceed according 
to the standard rules.
	
2) ATTACK – Choose any Intruder in the same Room as a Character. 
The Intruder attacks that Character, following the standard rules, with 
one exception: the Intruder player draws a number of Intruder Attack 
cards equal to the number displayed on the Player Intruder card played 
this round. Then, they choose 1 of these cards to be resolved and put all 
the others at the bottom of the Intruder Attack deck.
	
3) EFFECT – resolve the effect described on the Intruder Action card.
EvENT pHASE 
Almost all of the entire Event Phase is omitted, with the exception of the 
Time Track and Fire Damage.
	
Time Track: Just like in the standard rules, move the Time marker 
and Self-Destruct marker (if active) 1 space to the right.
	
Fire Damage: Just like in the standard rules, every Intruder in a 
Room with a Fire marker suffers 1 Injury. 
game modes 
	
Note: All the other steps do not apply in this mode! Specifically:
 
– Intruders do not attack at the end of the Turn (but they still make Sur-
prise Attacks during Encounters or when Characters Escape from Rooms 
with Intruders).
 
– Event cards are not used unless as a result of Intruder Player Action 
card effects.
 
– There is no Intruder Bag Development step.
victory condition: The player controlling the Intruders cannot fully 
win the game. Their goal is to ensure that no other players wins. After all, 
if you have already lost, you better make sure all the other players get the 
same treatment!

Turn Sequence 
I: player phase:
1) Draw up to 5 Action cards.
2) The First Player token is passed to the player on the left.
3) Player rounds. Each player plays in clockwise order:
	
– 2 Actions,
	
– OR 1 Action and pass,
	
– OR pass.
	
Repeat until all players pass.
	
After passing, a player does not take part in any subsequent 
round this turn.
II: Event phase:
4) Move the Time marker on the Time Track.
	
Move the Self-Destruct marker on the Self-Destruct Track, if active.
5) Intruder Attack.
6) Intruder Fire Damage.
7) Resolve 1 Event Card:
	
Intruder Movement.
	
Event Effect.
8) Intruder bag development: draw 1 token and resolve its effect.
Game Flow 
& Critical Moments 
First Encounter
When the first Intruder (of any type) appears on the board, all players 
must choose 1 Objective and discard the other face down.
First dead Character
After the first Character’s death (of any player) all Escape Pods are 
automatically Unlocked.
	
Optionally, the first dead Character may play as the Intruder.
Time track
When the Time Track reaches any blue space, the Hibernation cham-
bers open.
Self destruct
When the Self-Destruct Track reaches any yellow space, all Escape 
Pods are automatically unlocked.
Exploration 
When entering an unexplored (face down) Room:
1) Turn over its Room tile (face up).
2) Reveal its Exploration token and resolve its effect. Some of the 
effects may cancel step 3.
3) If there is no one in the Room, perform a Noise roll.
Actions 
You cannot discard any of your Contamination cards to pay for the 
Cost of an Action.
Basic Actions
Discard 1 Action card from your hand to perform 1 Basic Action.
	
Discard 2 cards when performing a Careful Movement Action.
Action cards
Discard the card of the Action you want to perform and pay its Cost 
by discarding the required number of additional Action cards.
room Actions
Discard 2 Action cards from your hand to perform a Room Action. 
Cannot be performed in Rooms with a Malfunction marker.
Item Actions
Discard the required number of Action cards from your hand to per-
form an Item Action.
	
Some Items (One Use Only) must also be discarded after their 
Action.
Items and objects 
Items
Normal Items go in your Inventory, so no one but you knows 
exactly what you have found.
quest Items
At the beginning of the game, these cards are quests (horizontal 
side), not Items.
	
You can activate them by completing the required quest.
Heavy Items
You can carry at most 2 Heavy Items, one in each of your Hand slots.
	
If you want to exchange a Heavy Item you are carrying with an-
other, simply drop it for free.
objects
Intruder Egg, Intruder Carcass, Character Corpse.
	
Required for researching Intruder Weaknesses.
	
They take up a Hand slot, like a Heavy Item.
	
When you drop one of these, place its token in the Room you are in.
Combat 
You are in Combat every time you are in a Room with an Intruder.
Shooting (cost 1):
1) Choose a Weapon and a target.
2) Discard an Ammo token from the chosen Weapon.
3) Roll a Combat die.
	
If you hit, apply any Injury token, then draw an Intruder Attack card 
and check the Injury Effect.
Melee ATTACK (cost 1):
1) Draw 1 Contamination card.
2) Choose a target.
3) Roll a Combat die (rolls of 2 Hits are treated as 1 Hit).
	
If you hit, apply any Injury token, then draw an Intruder Attack 
card and check the Injury Effect.
	
If you miss, the Intruder deals you 1 Serious Wound.
Escape (special Move Action, cost 1):
1) Choose a neighboring Room you wish to go to.
2) Draw an Intruder Attack card and resolve it:
	
If you die, place a Character Corpse token in the Room you 
were in.
	
If you survive, you move. Resolve this move as usual 
(Explore a new Room, perform a Noise roll and so on).
Intruder Attack 
1) Choose the targeted Character (the one with the fewest cards 
in their hand).
2) Draw an Intruder Attack card and resolve it:
	
If any Intruder symbol corresponds to the attacking Intruder 
type, the Attack is successful. Resolve the Effect of the card.
	
If there is no corresponding symbol on the card, the Attack 
misses.
intruder symbols: 
	
– LARVA
	
– CREEPER
	
 
– ADULT 
	
 
– BREEDER
	
 – QUEEN
 rules summary