YOU CAN SKIP OVER 
THE RULES AND LEARN 
THE GAME WITH
OUR VIDEO TUTORIAL!
SCAN THE QR CODE 
OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE:
www.portalgames.pl

CONTENTS:
INTRODUCTION..............................................................................
CONTENTS OF THE BOX ................................................................
GAME RULES....................................................................................
•	 Goal of the game........................................................................
•	 Setting up...................................................................................
•	 Starting the game....................................................................... 
•	 Game sequence...........................................................................
•	 Using tiles..................................................................................
•	 Battles........................................................................................
•	 Ending the game.........................................................................
•	 Victory...................................................................................... 
•	 Board description........................................................................
•	 Tips for the beginners.................................................................
•	 More tactical game......................................................................
TILE DESCRIPTIONS...........................................................................
•	 Initiative......................................................................................
•	 Unit tiles.....................................................................................
•	 Instant action tiles.......................................................................
COMMON PROBLEMS.......................................................................
THE MULTIPLAYER GAME.................................................................
ARMY DESCRIPTION.........................................................................
•	 The Outpost...............................................................................
•	 Moloch.......................................................................................
•	 Borgo.........................................................................................
•	 Hegemony..................................................................................
EXAMPLE OF PLAY............................................................................
BONUS CONTENT............................................................................
•	 Hex Puzzles.................................................................................
INTRODUCTION
Neuroshima HEX is a game of tactics, where armies wage continuous 
battles against each other. It is based on a roleplaying game called Neuroshima 
RPG published by Portal Games in 2003. While being familiar with the RPG 
is not necessary, the players will find it easier to identify with their armies 
if they have read or played the game. 
The world of Neuroshima RPG is that of a post-apocalyptic world torn apart 
by a war between humans and machines. The remains of humanity took 
shelter in the ruins of cities and organized in small communities, gangs and 
armies. Conflicts between such groups are not uncommon and the reasons of 
such are numerous: territory, food or equipment. What is more, the ruined 
cities are constantly patrolled by machines sent from the north, where a vast 
cybernetic entity, called MOLOCH, appeared. Great wastelands that surround 
what was left of the greatest cities are home to another enemy - BORGO - 
a charismatic leader who controls an army of gruesome mutants. One of 
humanity’s last hopes is the OUTPOST, a perfectly organized army that wages 
a guerilla war against MOLOCH. Nevertheless, most human settlements, inc-
luding the HEGEMONY, are not concerned with war until it comes banging at 
their door. Such is the world of Neuroshima. 
THE BOX OF NEUROSHIMA HEX 
CONTAINS THE FOLLOWING: 
1 game board 
35 MOLOCH Army tiles 
35 OUTPOST Army tiles 

CONTENTS OF THE BOX 
35 HEGEMONY Army tiles
35 BORGO Army tiles 
4 Reference charts
4 HQ Damage counters
4 replacement tiles (1 for each army)
 
this rulebook 
BONUS CONTENT:
55 Hex Puzzles (more information on page 22)
 
 
 
24 wound 
tokens 
8 net 
tokens
8 HQ tokens 
To assemble an HQ Damage counter, use 
the plastic dial connectors to attach one 
dial to each faceplate as shown below.
Discover the incredible world of 
neuroshima !
• fierce struggle for survival,
• pollution, anomalies, mutations, beasts,
• diverse factions born on the ashes 
of the United States.
www.portalgames.pl/en/neuroshimahex/

If you are already familiar with Neuroshima Hex rules and just want to check 
the changes and clarifications in this new edition, you only need to read the 
sections marked with this symbol 
.
The following rules refer to a two-player game. All adjustments necessary for 
a three or four player games are presented on page 13. 
GOAL OF THE GAME 
The goal of each player is to attack the enemy’s Headquarters (HQ). At the 
beginning of the game each HQ has 20 ”hit points”. If, during the game, an 
HQ loses its last (20th) hit point, it is destroyed and the player does not take 
part in the game any more.
If, at the end of the game (see ENDING THE GAME section on page 6), none 
of the HQ’s have been destroyed, the players compare their current hit point 
levels for each one. The player whose HQ is in the best condition (received 
least damage) is the winner.
SETTING UP 
Put the board in the middle of the table. Distribute the appropriate Army 
tiles among the players. Each player commands a single army represented by 35 
tiles. Next, each player separates their HQ tile from the remaining ones (you can 
distinguish them by a different back) and shuffles the tiles thoroughly.
When the tiles have been shuffled, they should be placed in a pile face down in front 
of each player. Each player should also get one HQ damage counter to keep track 
of received damage. Before the game starts, set the counter to 20 (in a 2-player 
game, changes for a MULTIPLAYER GAME are described on page 13). 
HQ tokens and the Damage track
If there are more than 4 players (so there’s not enough counters), one of the 
players will use the Damage track on the game board – in that case he should put 
one of his HQ tokens on the Damage track. 
STARTING THE GAME 
The owner of the game starts a game session (becomes Player 1). He may also cho-
ose a starting player or the starting player may be chosen randomly.
The starting player places his HQ tile anywhere on the board. The opposing player 
subsequently does the same. The HQ tiles may even be placed adjacent to each other. 
Next, the starting player (Player 1) draws one tile from his pile and puts it in front 
of him face up (not on the board yet!). Tiles are always drawn from off the top 
of the pile (which means the uppermost tile is always the one to be drawn first). 
The player may now use the tile (see USING TILES section on page 5), save it for 
later or discard it. 
The other player (Player 2) then draws two tiles from his pile and puts them in 
front of him face up. Like with Player 1, each of these tiles can be used, saved for 
later or discarded. 
Next, Player 1 draws up to three tiles, which means that if last turn he saved a 
tile for later, he now draws only TWO tiles. If, however, he used up or discarded 
his one tile, he now draws three tiles. Now that he has all three tiles in front of 
himself, he must choose one tile, which seems the least useful, and discards it, 
before he attempts any further actions. Each of the remaining two tiles can then 
be used, saved for the next turn or discarded. 
Player 2 follows the same procedure and the rest of the game continues as descri-
bed section below (GAME SEQUENCE). 
GAME SEQUENCE 
On his turn a player draws UP TO three tiles (i.e. under no condition can he have 
more than three tiles in front of himself), and puts them face up in front of himself. 
Then, after the tiles have been drawn, the player must discard one of the three 
tiles (usually the least useful one) aside into the discard pile. Then he decides 
what to do with the remaining two tiles - he can use them, keep them for the 
following turns, or discard them. 
A player may discard any number of tiles he drew. The drawn tiles should be 
visible to both players, hence their being face up in front of the player who draws 
them. 
If towards the end of the game any of the players draws his last tile, but still has 
fewer tiles in front of him than three, he does not have to discard any. 
When a player completes his turn (draws, uses, or discards tiles, and completes 
all actions desired) he informs the other player. 
Unlucky Draw
If ALL tiles that the player posseses after the draw happen to be Instant tiles 
(even if it is only 1 or 2 tiles at the beginning of the game), he may discard them 
and draw new tiles.* The player can use this rule multiple times during the game, 
even during one turn.
* This rule does not apply to the The Dancer army.
It is absolutely essential to shuffle the tiles before each game session. During the game, tiles are discarded to a discard pile in groups (e.g. several Unit tiles or 
several Instant Action tiles in a row). If the tiles are not shuffled, it can lead to a series of similar tiles being drawn each turn, and thus making it difficult to per-
form a reasonable action on the board.

USING TILES 
After drawing the tiles, placing them face up and discarding the one (ideally 
the least useful one), the remaining two can be put into play. 
There are two kinds of tiles in the game: Instant Action tiles (see more on page 
11) and Unit tiles (see page 7). Each tile is clearly marked so it’s easy to identify 
its function. Instant Action tiles only show a big dark icon, while Unit tiles 
contain more information. 
Here are some examples of the two tile types:
Example of Instant Action tiles
Example of Unit tiles
Both types of tiles can only be used during the players’ own turns. Under no 
circumstances can tiles be played during any other player’s turn. 
The Instant Action tiles represent specific actions. They are not placed on the 
game board to take effect, but only shown to the opponent and their effects are 
introduced into the game (See TILE DESCRIPTIONS section on page 7 for more 
information concerning their use). Then, the Instant Action tile used is discarded. 
Unit tiles represent your army’s units. Each army consists of 3 types of units: 
an HQ, Warriors and Modules. In order to use them, players place them on 
a chosen, unoccupied hexagonal space on the board. 
Unit tiles cannot be placed on other tiles on the board. 
After a tile has been placed, it may not be moved or turned in any way. Once 
placed, a tile remains in its position until the end of the game, or until it is killed 
and removed from the board. The only exceptions to this rule are special actions 
that allow some tiles to be moved around the board. Their use is explained in the 
TILE DESCRIPTIONS section on page 7. 
If at any time during the game the board is filled up and no single space is left 
to place a tile on, a Battle commences (see BATTLES section opposite column). 
BATTLES 
In their decks of tiles (among the 35 tiles that make up 
a players’ armies) players have several Battle tiles, which are 
a special kind of Instant Action tile. As soon as a Battle tile is 
played, a battle starts on the board. 
During a battle, the players must check the effects of each tile on the board. 
Battles are divided into phases»according to the Initiative values presented on 
the tiles. If the number printed on the tile is 3 - this tile is the first to act, then 
it is followed by those with an Initiatives of 2, then 1 and finally 0. 
In each phase of the Battle, players’ units of the same Initiative act 
simultaneously. (Examples: Two units with an Initiative of 3 shoot at each 
other: they both get hit and die. Two units fire at the same target in one phase: 
they hit the target simultaneously; both attacks strike home and none of the 
projectiles pass through). 
Dead/destroyed units remain on the board until the end of the phase they were 
killed/destroyed (you can turn them face down). After all actions in the phase 
have been carried out, dead units are removed and put on the discard pile. 
When a unit is wounded but not destroyed (because it has more Toughness - 
or Wound - points available), put a wound marker on it to indicate that it has 
been hit (except for the HQ, it’s damage is marked on the counter). 
Modules and Net Fighters stop affecting other units the moment they are 
removed from the board at the end of the phase, not when hit.
 - Wound markers should be put on damaged (wounded) units.
After a phase is finished, another phase follows, counting Initiative downwards. 
HQ wounds are calculated at the end of a phase. 
A Battle tile cannot be used if any of the players has drawn his last tile from 
the deck. 
The player who starts a Battle (by playing Battle tile or filling up the board) 
finishes his turn, regardless of the number of tiles he has left. As soon as the 
Battle commences, no other tiles can be used or even discarded. 
An example Battle can 
be found at the end of 
this rulebook 
on page 20.
Warrior
Module

ENDING THE GAME 
If any of the players draws his last tile from the deck, he can finish his turn. 
Then the opposing player finishes his turn and the Final Battle begins. 
When any of the players has drawn his last tile, Battle tiles cannot be used. 
If a player has used his last tile and filled in the last unoccupied hex on the 
board, a Battle starts. Then, after the Battle, the opposing player can use his 
remaining tiles and the Final Battle begins. 
VICTORY 
The game ends after the Final Battle or when an HQ’s Hit points are 
reduced to zero. 
If one of the HQs is destroyed, the game ends and the player whose HQ 
survived wins. 
If any of the HQs are destroyed during a Battle, the Battle goes on as usual. If 
the other HQ is destroyed as well, the game ends in a draw. 
If none of the HQs are destroyed and the Final Battle has been fought, the 
player whose HQ has more Hit points left is the winner. 
If both HQs have the same number of points remaining, each player takes one 
more turn as if the game continued in the normal way (if a player has no more 
tiles left to draw, he can only use the abilities of the tiles he has on the board, 
for example, a unit’s Mobility). Then, an additional Battle begins. If both HQs 
still have the same number of points remaining after this additional Battle, the 
game ends in a draw.
BOARD DESCRIPTION
The main battlefield consists of 19 hexes set in the middle of the board. It 
is exactly as in the previous edition. Around it you can find a circle of 
eighteen additional hexes which we suggest you use when there are more 
than 4 players. They give some room on the battlefield. 
Finally, there is also a Damage track on the board. It can be used when there are 
more than 4 players. In such case the player without the HQ Damage counter 
will place his HQ token on the Damage track on the board and moves the token 
every time his HQ gets hit.
MORE TACTICAL GAME
Alternative start. At the beginning of the game: Player 1 draws three tiles from his pile. Then he has to discard one and from the remaining two he chooses one tile to 
be used. He can also save it or discard it if he wants to. The other tilecan only be saved for later or discarded. Next, starting with Player 2, players draw up to three 
tiles, choose one to discard and then can use, save for the next turn or discard the remaining two tiles.
Reinforcement rule. If you think there is too much randomness in the game and you want to reduce it, you can play with the following rule: during your turn, draw up 
to 6 tiles instead of 3, discard one and play a maximum of two tiles, any other tile you have to save for later.
main board
Damage track
additional 18 hexes used 
in a 5- or 6-player game
TIPS FOR THE BEGINNERS
If after the first few plays the game seems too chaotic to you, we recommend you play more to get to know the game better. During the next plays try to use the army 
reference charts which allow you to play more tactically.
If you feel that some armies are stronger, others weaker, we recommend you play a lot more - some armies are just easier, others a little more difficult to learn. In 
order, the easiest armies to play are: Borgo, Moloch, Hegemony and the Outpost.
Do not worry if you draw only Instant Action Tiles during one turn - remember about the Unlucky Draw rule. Do not worry if you draw only Modules in one turn, 
because it’s worthy to place them around the HQ to protect it.

There are four basic army decks in the game. Each deck consists of 35 tiles which 
are marked appropriately on their back sides to indicate which army they belong 
to. 
When used, tiles affect all types of Unit tiles (unless specified otherwise in a 
given tile description). 
INITIATIVE 
Most Unit tiles are marked with a symbol indicating its initiative in the game. 
The higher the Initiative, the earlier in each phase of a battle a given tile may 
take its action (i.e. the sooner the unit will attack its opponents). 
The Initiative values range from 0 to 3. The value indicates the number of the 
phase in which a unit can perform an attack (see BATTLES section on page 5). 
Some tiles have two Initiative values printed on them, which means that the 
unit can perform all its attacks twice – during both indicated phases of the 
battle. 
There are also tiles with no Initiative symbols. These units’ actions are not 
restricted to one phase during the battle. A tile with no Initiative symbol acts 
as soon as it is placed on the board and until it is removed. 
initiative 1
initiative 1 and 2
no initiative
UNIT TILES 
Unit tiles, as opposed to Instant Action tiles, are ones that can be placed on 
the game board. There are 3 types of Unit tiles: HQs, Warriors and Modules. 
THE HQs
The HQ is the most important tile in the deck. 
Each HQ can sustain 20 points of damage, which are reduced by successful 
enemy hits. If the number falls down to 0, the HQ is destroyed and its owner 
loses the game. 
Each army’s HQ has a different special ability which is described on the 
reference charts of each army (and in the Army Description section on pages 
15-18). Moreover, each HQ can hit all adjacent enemy units with a Melee 
Attack of Strength 1. However, an HQ cannot attack another HQ. An HQ can 
NEVER harm another HQ, whether or not a Quartermaster, Officer or any other 
module is connected to it. Each HQ has an Initiative of 0 and its special ability 
does not affect itself. 
WARRIORS
The face of each Warrior shows, apart from their pictures, additional symbols 
representing types of actions the Warriors can undertake. There are four main 
symbols in the game:
The symbols can be found printed against one, or more, edges of a tile and 
they represent the directions a given actions. Actions cannot be declared, and 
do not work in any other directions than the ones indicated by the symbols.
A couple of examples:
Melee attack 
Ranged attack 
Armor 
Net
Melee attacks in 
four directions
 Range attacks in 
two directions
Armor protecting 
two sides of a unit
Net thrown in 
two directions
EXAMPLES:

Other symbols that indicate units’ special abilities are: 
Examples of special ability icons printed on tiles: 
DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS
Melee Attack 
This symbol represents a melee attack performed on an enemy unit. 
The attack only hits enemies adjacent to the edge with the symbol. 
If a tile has more than one attack symbol, all attacks are performed 
simultaneously during the Battle. 
The symbol also shows how powerful the attack is (its Strength ranging 
from 1 to 3).
Attacks are automatic and the players may not decide not to attack.
Ranged Attack 
Ranged Attacks are, simply put, shots fired during the battle. It hits the first 
enemy unit in the attacker’s line of sight, no matter how far the unit is. 
The symbol on the tile indicates the direction of the attack (in a straight line 
from the tile edge). If a Warrior has two or more Ranged Attack symbols, he 
shoots in all directions at once during the battle. 
The symbol also shows how powerful the attack is (its Strength ranging 
from 1 to 3).
Attacks are automatic and the players may not decide not to attack. 
Warriors shoot over their friendly units, so no friendly fire is taken into 
account (it reflects their coordination during a firefight). Friendly units do not 
obscure line of sight towards enemy units in the same line (shots go past or 
over them!). 
Ranged Attack example 
One of the Outpost Warriors fires his weapon at Moloch’s units (tiles outlined 
in white). The bullet does not harm the friendly unit in the line of sight (an 
Outpost Runner), but goes straight through and hits the nearest Moloch unit. 
The bullet does not reach the Moloch HQ which is further away.
Mobility
Toughness
A mobile unit 
A unit with two Toughness points
 A Strength 2 Melee Attack 
A Strength 3 Melee Attack 
 A Strength 2 
Ranged Attack 
Shooting in 
2 directions 
(Strength 1 each) 
Shooting in 
3 directions 
(Strength 1 each)

ARMOR 
Armor decreases the Strength of all kinds of enemy 
Ranged Attacks by 1 (and protects from all Strength 1 Ranged 
Attacks). It does not, however, protect from Melee Attacks. 
Note that a Ranged Attack from an adjacent hex is still 
a Ranged Attack and not a Melee Attack. 
The Armor symbol on the tile indicates which side is protec-
ted. If an armored unit is attacked from a different direction 
than the protected side indicates, the armor has no effect, 
and the attack hits. 
Armor does not protect from Instant Action tiles, such as 
Snipers, Air Strikes or Grenades.
Armor protects the unit from the Gauss cannon attacks 
normally, but the attack still affects all the other units in the 
line of fire.
Armor does not protect from wounds inflicted by 
an exploding Clown.
NETS 
Nets disable adjacent opponents, preventing them from 
performing any actions themselves (like moving, attacking, 
pushing back, adding bonus abilities, etc.). 
Net symbols indicate the directions in which the net is 
thrown. Only the tiles, whose edges are adjacent to the net 
symbol, are disabled. 
Nets disable the opponents as soon as they are placed on the 
board, not only during a Battle. Nets also affect enemy HQs. 
(For more information, see USING NETS on page 12.)
Nets are in effect all the time and players may not choose 
not to use them while on the board. 
To easily remember which unit is disabled by a net, you can 
place a net token on such a unit. Remove the token when the 
unit stops being affected by the net (if it happens during the 
Battle, remove the token at the end of the Initiative phase 
during which the unit was freed). 
TOUGHNESS 
If a Unit Tile (except for the HQs) does not have a Toughness 
icon (symbol), it is removed after receiving a single wound. 
Each Toughness symbol represents an additional wound a 
unit can sustain before being destroyed. Thus, a unit with 
two Toughness symbols must receive 3 wounds before 
being removed from the board. 
Each wound inflicted on a unit is marked with a wound 
marker placed on its tile. 
two points of Toughness
MOBILITY 
A unit marked with this symbol can move one hex and/or 
turn freely on the board. A tile may only be moved onto a 
free hex and all movement is carried out in its controlling 
player’s turn (not during Battles!). 
A player can move a Mobile unit before or after placing his 
new tiles on the board. 
Net thrown 
in 2 directions
Net thrown 
in 2 directions 
Net token 

MODULES 
Module tiles are placed on the board like other units. They remain on the 
board until they are destroyed. They cannot move or be turned, unless 
a Move, Push Back or any other ‘external’ action tile is used. 
They start affecting units as soon as they are connected to them (not only 
during Battles). Modules are always active and can never be turned off.
Module symbols printed along the edges show the direction they can be 
connected to another unit. If a Module has several such symbols, it works in 
all given directions at all times. 
Modules can be destroyed like any other units, and some of them also have 
additional Toughness points. 
If several Modules are connected to one unit, their effects are cumulative. 
Modules also affect HQs. 
Since Modules work all the time, they do not have respective actions, 
so spending an additional action (some units have such abilities) does not 
augment a Module in any way. Modules do not affect enemy units (unless 
specified otherwise in their descriptions). 
the Module connection symbol 
Officer Modules increase the strength of friendly units’ attacks 
(melee or ranged). 
This module increases 
the Strength of melee 
attacks by 1 and works 
in 3 directions. 
This module increases 
the Strength of ran-
ged attacks by 1 and 
works in 3 directions.
Scouts increase Initiative values of the units they are 
connected to. 
If a unit with the Medic Module connected suffers one or 
more wounds from an attack of 1 enemy unit (or Sniper, Air 
Strike, Grenade or any other Instant tile) the wounds are 
ignored and the Medic tile is discarded. See USING MEDICS 
on page 12.
About modules
Any Module must be directly connected to a unit in order to affect it. Modules 
cannot affect units through other units or modules. 
If a Warrior unit is connected to a Module which enhances its initiative and 
another initiative-increasing Module is connected to that Module, only the 
bonus from the first Module takes effect. In order for the second Module to 
take effect, it must be directly connected to the Warrior.

This tile allows its user to move one of his units to an 
adjacent, unoccupied hex and/or turn it in any direction 
desired.
GRENADE 
This tile destroys one chosen enemy unit completely. 
A Grenade can only be thrown onto a hex adjacent to your 
(the user’s) HQ. 
It does not affect enemy HQs. 
A Grenade cannot be thrown from a netted HQ. 
The Sniper inflicts one wound on a single chosen enemy unit 
on the board. The Sniper may not hit enemy HQs. 
AIR STRIKE 
The Air Strike inflicts a wound on a target hex and all 
spaces adjacent to it. All Warriors and Modules within 
the area are hit (including friendly ones). 7 hex spaces are 
covered with the strike altogether, and the Air Strike must 
be called so that the blast range does not exceed board 
boundaries. (All 7 hexes on the board must be hit with the 
Strike) - see picture. 
The Air Strike does not affect HQs. 
The Air Strike may be called in onto an empty hex space.
Air strike example
INSTANT ACTION TILES 
Apart from tiles representing fighting units, each player has a number 
of special Instant Action tiles described below. 
These tiles cannot be used when a Battle starts, but only in phases where 
players place their units on the board. Instant Action tiles are not placed on 
the board, but are discarded after use.
If a player uses this tile (shows it to other players - Instant 
Action tiles are not placed on the board) a Battle begins. 
This tile may not be used if any of the players has drawn 
his last tile from the deck. After the Battle Tile is used, 
the player’s turn ends and he may not perform any more 
actions.
This tile allows one of the friendly units to push away an 
adjacent enemy unit, creating a distance of one hex between 
them. 
The enemy unit can only be pushed away onto an unoccu-
pied hex and only a single space away (not two or three). If 
there is more than one unoccupied hex available, the player 
controlling the enemy unit decides which one to place his tile on. 
The pushed back unit may not be turned during the move. 
If it is not possible to create a 1 hex space between the units, 
the Push Back tile cannot be used.
Pushing back example 
One of Moloch’s units (tile 
with the white outline) is 
surrounded by two Outpost 
Warriors: a Runner (on the 
upper hex) and a Brawler 
(on the right-hand hex). The 
commander of Moloch’s forces 
decides to use his Push Back 
tile. It is impossible to push the 
Runner away, because both 
hexes 
behind 
him 
are 
occupied and the only free hex 
is adjacent to the unit, that 
performs the push. It is, however, 
possible to push the Brawler 
away. Additionally, the player 
who commands the Outpost 
forces may choose which hex 
to move his unit to.

COMMON PROBLEMS
USING NETS 
If a Net Fighter dies, his net affects other units until the end of the phase, up 
until the tile is removed from the board. In the phase the Net Fighter dies, the 
affected tile(s) cannot perform their actions yet. These tiles will only be able 
to act so in the following phase (if applicable). 
A disabled unit cannot move, thus it cannot be pushed away. 
A Net Fighter can be pushed away but by a third party (not by the unit that is 
being disabled by him). 
A Net Fighter can disable another Net Fighter, and then, the latter is rendered 
unable to affect any units. 
If two opposing Net Fighters throw nets in each other’s direction, they do not 
disable each other. In other words, two nets aimed at each other nullify each 
other’s function, while both Net fighters are treated as non-netted (e.g. they 
can be moved normally with a Move tile).
If three Net fighters net each other (the first the second, the second the third 
and the third the first) the Net fighters are treated as non-netted as well – their 
nets in other directions work normally, they can be moved, pushed, etc.
USING MEDICS
Medic Modules (or Medics) cannot be ‘turned off’ if they are connected to 
a unit. Their effects are in play all the time. 
The Medic absorbs all wounds inflicted by an attack of one enemy unit 
only (an attack from one edge in one Initiative phase); if several opponents 
wound the target with the Medic Module, its commander decides which attack 
is absorbed. 
If the Medic is connected to more than one unit, and all the units are damaged, 
the player chooses one of them to be ‘healed’ by the Module. 
If a single unit is connected to two Medic Modules, the controlling player 
chooses which Medic absorbs the damage when hit. 
If both a Medic and the connected unit are hit simultaneously, the Medic is 
destroyed first and cannot heal the unit. 
If a unit is connected to a Medic Module (1), which has another Medic (2) 
connected (but the modules are not interconnected), the damage, when the 
unit is hit, is absorbed by the latter (Medic 2). 
If two Medics are interconnected (each has the connection icon turned in 
the other’s direction) the controlling player decides which of them absorbs 
wounds.
MORE ON INITIATIVE
No unit can have its initiative reduced below a value of 0. If any unit’s action 
is slowed down to below that level (below 0), it is still treated as having an 
Initiative value of 0. 
There is no upper limit to increasing Initiative.
If a unit can perform more than one attack, and has a module which increases 
its Initiative, the bonus affects all its attacks.
If a unit attacks in more than one direction (no matter if the attacks are of the 
same or of a different type) and it can perform its attacks in more than one 
Initiative phase (i.e. Outpost’s Mobile Armor), it performs all its attacks in 
each Initiative.
A unit can perform an attack (Melee, Ranged) in the phase corresponding 
to its current Initiative. For instance, a Warrior with Initiative value of 3 is 
disabled by a net in battle phase 3; in that phase, the net is destroyed. In phase 
2 the Warrior is free, however, it cannot act since its Initiative value is 3 and 
that phase is over.
Situation 1.
A unit with the Initiative of 2 gets a bonus of +1 from an adjacent Module 
(raising its Initiative value to 3) and can perform an attack in phase 3. If in the 
same phase the Module is destroyed and the unit’s Initiative drops to 2 again, 
the unit cannot perform another attack in phase 2. 
Situation 2
A unit with the Initiative of 3 is affected by a Saboteur (a special Outpost 
Module) and its Initiative is reduced by 1 (its Initiative is now 2). It cannot 
carry out any actions in phase 3. During the same phase (phase 3) the Saboteur 
is destroyed, and the unit’s original Initiative is restored, but phase 3 is now 
over and phase 2 begins, so the unit may not carry out any actions during this 
phase. Bad luck! 
Situation 3
A unit with its original Initiative of 2 is enhanced by a Module and gains 
+1 Initiative. Unfortunately, the Module gets temporarily disabled by a Net 
and does not provide the bonus. Phase 3 ends, but the Net is destroyed, so 
the unit’s Initiative jumps up to 3 again. However phase 3 is now over, and the 
next one begins - can the unit act in phase 2? No, it can’t. Sorry.

THE MULTIPLAYER GAME
This section presents adjustments necessary to play with 3 or 4 players.
3 PLAYERS
1. Deathmatch 
•	 Starting the game: Player 1 draws one tile, Player 2 draws two tiles, Player 
3 draws three tiles and then each player draws tiles in the standard way 
(up to three). 
•	 The Final Battle: If any of the players draws his last tile from the pile, the 
•	 HQ destroyed: If any player loses his HQ, its tile is removed from the 
board together with all its Unit tiles at the end of the Battle. The player is 
out and the game is continued.
•	 Tie: in case of a tie in the multiplayer game the losing players place asi-
de their Damage counters (remove the faction markers from the Damage 
track) but their army tiles remain on the board, act and attack during the 
Battle in the normal way. Then each of the tied players takes an extra turn 
- starting with the next player after the player who ended the game and 
continuing in turn order. After each player has taken his turn an additio-
nal Battle commences. If the players are still tied, then the game ends in a 
draw and the tied players share the victory.
Note that this variant makes the game more about negotiations than tactics. 
We encourage you to try the second and third modes described below.
2. Deathmatch with an optional score rule
•	 Starting the game: HQ damage counters are set to 0 before the game 
starts. Player 1 draws one tile, Player 2 draws two tiles, Player 3 draws 
three tiles and then each player draws tiles in the standard way (up to 
three). 
•	 Attacking HQ: HQs have unlimited Hit Points, and every time a player’s 
unit hits an opponent’s HQ, the wounds inflicted count as points and are 
marked on the counter. The first player to get 20 points wins the game. 
If none of the players score the required number of points and the Final 
Battle ends, the player with the highest score wins.
•	 The Final Battle: If any of the players draws his last tile from the pile, the 
3. 1 player vs a team
•	 Player 1 (called The Loner) plays on his own, while Players 2 and 3 form 
a team. Before the game starts, the Loner sets his HQ damage counter to 
20 and each team player to 13 before the game starts. 
•	 The Team players’ units are called friendly – the rules for friendly units 
are described below in the 4-player team match variant.
•	 Playing order: Players in the team do not take consecutive turns, they 
play alternately with the Loner. The turn sequence should be: Player 1, 
Player 2, Player 1, Player 3. 
•	 Starting the game: Player 1 draws one tile, Player 2 draws two tiles, Player 
1 draws three tiles and then each player draws tiles in the standard way 
(up to three). 
•	 The first of the opposing sides (Loner player or the team) to destroy an 
enemy HQ wins the game. If none of the HQs is completely destroyed, 
the side with the highest total of remaining Hit points (the side whose 
HQs sustained less damage) wins. 
•	 If two opposing HQs are destroyed in one battle, the team wins.
4. Team match (optional)
3 players can also use the rules for a 4-player Team match (described below), 
with one player playing two armies.
4 PLAYERS
1. Team match
This is a game of two teams of two players each. Here are all the changes and 
additional adjustments: 
At the beginning of the game each HQ has 15 hit points (instead of 20), 
so the damage counters should be set to 15. 
Starting the game: First Player draws one tile, Second Player draws two 
tiles, Third Player draws three tiles and then each player draws tiles in 
the standard way (up to three). 
Alternate sequence is introduced for players taking their turns, which 
means that players in the same team may not take consecutive turns. If 
Players 1 and 2 are on the same team and Players 3 and 4 on the other, 
the turn sequence should 1-3-2-4. 

THE MULTIPLAYER MODE
For better understanding, in the following section units on the same team are 
called friendly units. 
Module and HQ bonuses also affect friendly units. 
Move and Push Back actions cannot be used on friendly units. 
Friendly units cannot be hit by a teammate’s ranged or melee attacks. 
Shots go through them. 
Net Fighters do not disable friendly units. 
The first team to destroy any enemy HQ wins the game. If none of 
the HQs are completely destroyed, the team with the highest total of 
remaining Damage points (the team whose HQs sustained less damage) wins. 
If two opposing HQs are destroyed in one battle, the remaining two 
HQs are taken into consideration and the one with more Damage points 
remaining wins. 
The Final Battle: If any of the players draws his last tile from the pile, the 
Moloch in a Team Match
Moloch is a unique army in the game. Its units hit and damage friendly units 
as usual, but Modules and the HQ give them bonuses. Moloch’s army can also 
use Modules and HQ bonuses from the allied army. Additionally, Moloch’s 
allies can push back its units, be pushed back by them, and always disable each 
other’s units with a Net.
2. Deathmatch 
The rules are the same as in the 3-player Deathmatch mode. 
3. Deathmatch with an optional score rule
The rules are the same as in the 3-player Deathmatch mode with an 
optional score rule. 
Expanded Battlefield
The main game board consists of 19 hexes set in the middle of the board. 
Around it you can find a single circle of an additional 18 hexes (see Board 
description on page 6). We suggest you use it during a game with five or even 
six players. In a 4-player game, however, players can also agree to use the 
expanded battlefield. 
When playing on the expanded board, the Battle still commences as soon as 
the main board is filled up.

The last regular standing army of humankind, the 
Outpost wages war against Moloch at its very 
borders. After several years of guerilla warfare, 
humans invented numerous effective ways of 
fighting the dreadful machines. Their hit-and-run 
tactics are crucial while standing against a stronger 
opponent. The Outpost is never in one place, always 
on the move slipping away from ambushes and traps 
as one mobile city. Thanks to many victories against 
Moloch’s forces, the Outpost has taken over some 
modern technology and uses it against the machines 
themselves.
Mobility is the main advantage of the Outpost deck. It 
also includes a considerable number of Battle tiles, so 
the controlling player may easily use any opportunity 
for a quick attack. Moreover, a diversity of Modules 
(including ones that affect the enemy) can change the 
course of the battle within seconds.
The main disadvantage is a small number of fighting 
units and their low toughness.
The best starting place for the HQ is the center of the 
board. It enables the Outpost to move its HQ around 
using Move tiles to avoid enemy attacks. Only when 
the board is almost full, should the HQ back out and 
place friendly units around for protection.
Adjacent units can perform an 
additional attack in the Initiative 
phase that follows their last 
Initiative phase. 
If a unit performs attacks 
in two Initiative phases, the 
additional, third, attack is 
performed in the phase that 
follows the other two.
If all attacks are taken in 
Initiative phase 0, the additional 
action is lost and cannot be 
performed.
Melee attack & Mobility.
RUNNER
Attacks on Initiative 
phase 1 & 2. 
HMG
COMMANDO
ANNIHILATOR
Attacks on Initiative 
phase 2 & 3. Ranged 
attack, Melee attack & 
Mobility.
MOBILE ARMOR
BRAWLER
Saboteur affects all 
connected enemy units 
and decreases their 
Initiative by 1.
SABOTEUR
As long as the Recon 
Center remains on the 
board, all friendly units 
using Move actions can 
move 2 spaces instead of 1.
RECON CENTER
+1 Strength 
in Ranged combat.
As long as the Scoper is 
connected to an enemy 
module, that module 
gives bonuses to the 
Outpost’s units instead of 
the enemy’s.
SCOPER
+1 Initiative
single chosen enemy unit. 
THE OUTPOST

Moloch is a half-mechanical, half-electronic entity 
which spreads across an area as large as several 
states. It was Moloch that brought about the fall of 
humankind in 2020. Now, thirty years later, it’s even 
bigger and more powerful. Hordes of machines search 
through the barren lands in pursuit of what’s left of 
humans to destroy them. All orders are transmitted 
from within Moloch’s ‘body’, which consists of several 
interconnected artificial brains that scheme on the 
latest plans for the ultimate conquest. Despite its military 
and technological advantages, Moloch’s forces lack the 
natural intelligence and flexibility of humans.
Among its advantages, tough units is one of the most 
important. Thanks to this, more units remain on the 
board after each battle as compared an opponent’s forces. 
A considerable number of units skilled in ranged combat 
and reinforced by modules enables Moloch to create 
a literally unbreakable line of machines capable of 
inflicting heavy damage upon enemy HQs, its own one 
being protected by highly efficient blocking units.
On the other hand, Moloch’s army is not as mobile as 
the others and the deck has only a few Battle tiles, which 
does not give the controlling player an upper hand in 
deciding when a battle should start.
A good idea is to place the HQ in one of the corners of 
the board and surround it with heavily armored units. Then 
surround the enemy HQ to prevent it from moving around. 
Finally, a number of shooting units with varied Initiative 
should be placed in a line to break through enemy defences 
and damage the HQ. Another opportunity is to place a unit 
in a convenient place and use the Push Back action.
Thanks to this HQ’s special Strength bonus, it can be 
used effectively when attacking the enemy (a good 
idea is to place the HQ near the enemy HQ, provided it 
cannot escape easily).
+1 Strength in Ranged 
May not attack other units. 
Armor & Toughness.
BLOCKER
HYBRID
Can hit multiple enemies 
simultaneously. All enemy 
units in a line of fire get 
1 wound. No bonuses 
increasing firepower take 
effect. Toughness.
GAUSS CANNON
Armor, Ranged attack, 
Melee attack & Toughness.
JUGGERNAUT
HUNTER-KILLER
Ranged attack & 
PROTECTOR
Armor & Melee attack.
ARMORED HUNTER
Armor & Ranged attack.
ARMORED GUARD
Melee attack & Toughness. 
Instead of performing an 
attack it may explode in its 
Initiative phase, inflicting 1 
wound to each adjacent unit 
(no bonuses take effect) both 
friendly and enemy (including 
HQs). After exploding The 
Clown is discarded (cannot be 
repaired in any way). 
THE CLOWN
HORNET
+1 Strength in Melee & 
Ranged combat.
THE BRAIN
Net.
Attacks on Initiative phase 
1 & 2. Ranged attack & 
STORMTROOPER
Connected unit can perform 
an additional attack in the 
Initiative phase that follows its 
last Initiative phase. 
If a unit performs attacks 
in two Initiative phases, the 
additional, third, attack is 
performed in the phase that 
follows the other two.
If all attacks are taken in Ini-
tiative phase 0, the additional 
action is lost and cannot be 
performed.
MOTHER MODULE
GUARD
Connected units +1 
Strength in Ranged 
Connected units +1 
Initiative.
Push an adjacent enemy 
unit 1 hex away to 
unoccupied hex. If choice, 
enemy player selects hex.
target hex and all spaces 
adjacent to it. Can’t attack 
edge hex. Does not affect 
HQs.
AIR STRIKE
MOLOCH

Since the beginning of the war, Moloch has created 
numerous generations of mutants. Enhanced growth 
rate, genetic engineering and high combat skills are 
the essence of a mutant’s abilities. Their various 
breeds roam the barren lands fighting over 
every inch of it, quite often against one another. 
The scattered groups have finally become united by 
the charismatic cyber-mutant Borgo, who leads the 
horde against humanity under his defiling banner of 
Biohazard.
Quickness is the main advantage of the Borgo army, 
thanks to high initiative levels and numerous Scouts. 
Additionally, the army has a lot of fighting units and 
good enhancements in the form of Modules.
The main drawback is the lack of shooting units, which 
forces all Borgo units to engage in Melee combat.
Borgo’s HQ is most effective in the center of the 
board surrounded by friendly units. Another good 
idea is to scatter the fighting units so that they 
can attack enemies in several directions and clear 
the battlefield.
MUTANT
CLAWS
Borgo’s Net Fighters, apart 
from disabling the enemy, 
can attack them inflicting 
3 wounds. The attack is 
performed during the battle 
in the Net Fighter’s Initiative 
phase. The net itself works 
normally (see Using Nets 
section on page 21). Thus, 
Net Fighters can attack 
disabled enemies.
Armor, Melee attack & 
SUPER MUTANT
BRAWLER
Ranged attack & Mobility.
ASSASSIN
combat & Toughness.
SUPER OFFICER
Destroys 1 chosen enemy 
unit adjacent to your HQ. 
Not useable if Borgo’s HQ 
is disabled by Net.
GRENADE
BORGO

The Hegemony is a land ruled by gangs waging 
constant war for domination. The gangs set off to 
loot and kill spreading terror far beyond the borders 
of the Hegemony. Strength and physical prowess 
are highly valued among the gangers, their favorite 
pastime being violent gladiatorial games.
The main advantage of the deck is a fair number of Net 
Fighters, who can be used to disrupt enemy’s most 
daring actions. 
Additionally the deck includes a balanced number of 
Battle, Move and Push Back tiles which makes it quite 
mobile.
Few shooters make the army more close-combat 
oriented though.
Net Fighters should be particularly well pla-
ced, to disable as many enemy units as possible, 
including his HQ or to protect the Hegemony HQ from 
approaching enemy units. Thanks to this HQ’s special 
Strength bonus, it can be used effectively when 
attacking the enemy (a good idea is to place the HQ 
near the enemy HQ, provided it cannot escape easily).
Melee attack and Mobility.
RUNNER
THUG
GANGER
Net.
Melee attack 
& Toughness.
GUARD
Apart from disabling 
enemy units, can also 
attack in Melee combat. 
The attack is performed 
during Battle in the Net 
Master’s Initiative phase. 
The Net itself works 
normally.
NET MASTER
Unit performs its Ranged 
and Melee attacks 
simultaneously (so that 
it can inflict 2 wounds on 
an adjacent enemy unit).
UNIVERSAL SOLDIER
combat & +1 Initiative.
THE BOSS
QUARTERMASTER
OFFICER I
On your turn each connected 
unit can perfom an 
additional Move action and/
or turn as if it had Mobility. 
Connected units can move 
immediately after placing 
this tile on the board and are 
allowed to move away from 
Transport. 
Transport may not move 
itself.
single chosen enemy unit. 
Push an adjacent enemy 
unit 1 hex away to 
unoccupied hex. If choice, 
enemy player selects hex.
Armor, Melee attack & 
GLADIATOR
Connected unit can convert 	
1 Melee attack to Ranged 
attack or vice versa. If 
connected unit can attack 
in more than 1 Initiative 
phase and/or direction, 
player must choose only 
1 to receive Quartermaster 
bonus. Bonus is optional. 
If connected unit is also 
connected to other modu-
les, their bonuses apply.
OFFICER II
TRANSPORT
HEGEMONY

Turn 1 (Placing HQs) 
The Outpost player starts, deciding to 
place his HQ at the very center of the 
board for better mobility thanks to 
numerous Move tiles in his deck. 
The Hegemony controlling player places 
his HQ in one of the corners of the board 
for better defense.
Turn 2 (The Outpost) 
The player draws a Medic tile (at the 
beginning of the game Player 1 only draws 
one tile and does not have to discard any).
The player places the Medic adjacent to 
the HQ and at the same time prevents the 
opponent from placing a tile next to the 
Hegemony HQ.
Turn 3 (Hegemony) 
The player draws Move and Officer 
tiles (at the beginning of the game Player 
2 draws two tiles and does not have to 
discard any). 
The player uses his Move action to change 
his HQ’s position and get a better attack 
opportunity. Apart from that he places 
his Officer next to the HQ thus creating 
a perfect place for another Warrior which 
could get bonuses from both - Officer 
and HQ, and attack the enemy HQ. At 
the same time the Officer provides good 
defense for the HQ.
Turn 4 (The Outpost) 
The player draws Move, Brawler and 
Annihilator. 
One of the tiles must be discarded and the 
player decides to discard Move. 
The Brawler is placed in the space next to 
its own HQ and will be able to attack the 
enemy HQ during Battles using its own 
HQ bonus to attack twice. 
The Annihilator is placed adjacent to the 
enemy HQ. A risky tactic, but one that 
prevents the Hegemony from moving 
its HQ.
Turn 5 (Hegemony) 
Tiles drawn: Battle, Net Fighter, Runner 
The player discards Battle (the situation 
does not look good enough to start 
a battle. 
The Net Fighter is placed to disable the 
Brawler and the Runner to threaten the 
enemy HQ.
Turn 6 (The Outpost)
Tiles drawn: Move, Battle, HMG 
One tile must be discarded and the player 
decides to discard the Battle tile (too early 
for one). 
The Move tile is used to change the 
position of the HQ and move away from 
the possible threat. The HMG is placed to 
attack the Hegemony HQ from afar.
HEGEMONY VS THE OUTPOST

Turn 7 (Hegemony) 
Tiles drawn: Universal Soldier, Ganger, 
Net Fighter 
chooses to discard the Ganger. 
The Universal Soldier is positioned to 
attack the Annihilator. Thanks to a high 
initiative level, the Universal Soldier will 
be able to eliminate the Annihilator before 
he attacks the HQ. 
The Net Fighter is placed to disable the 
enemy HQ and prevent it from moving, 
at the same time protecting the other Net 
Fighter. 
Finally, the Runner uses his Mobility skill, 
to move adjacent to Outpost’s HQ.
Turn 8 (The Outpost) 
Tiles drawn: Commando, Scout, Medic 
chooses to discard the Medic. 
The Commando is positioned to hit one 
of the Net Fighters and the Scout 
module will enhance his initiative. Thus, the 
Commando will be able to eliminate the 
Net Fighter early enough to enable the 
Brawler to attack the enemy HQ.
Turn 9 (Hegemony) 
Tiles drawn: Ganger, The Boss, Runner 
chooses to discard the Runner. 
The Ganger is placed to backstab the 
HMG and provide some protection for the 
Universal Soldier. 
The Boss is placed to enhance the 
Runner’s Initiative value and attack 
strength.
Turn 10 (The Outpost) 
Tiles drawn: Sniper, Move and Battle 
The player decides to discard the Move 
tile. 
The Sniper eliminates the Net Fighter who 
was disabling the HQ. If the player used 
a Move tile now, he could move the HQ 
out of the Runner’s range, but it seems 
more sensible to secure the line of fire 
for the Commando. Additionally, the HQ 
provides a bonus for the Brawler who is in 
a good position to attack the enemy HQ. 
The last drawn tile is the Battle tile 
and the moment seems right to use it, 
before Hegemony draws and uses another 
Net Fighter or Sniper tiles. The player de-
cides to use the Battle tile and the battle 
begins.
BATTLE SEQUENCE:
Initiative phase 4 
The highest Initiative on the board is 4, 
so the Battle begins with units of Initia-
tive level 4. Only the Commando is able 
to act in this phase (only this unit has an 
Initiative of 4), so he shoots at the enemy 
Net Fighter and kills him instantly. 
The Net Fighter is removed from the 
board.
Initiative phase 3 
All units with an Initiative of 3 act 
simultaneously. The Runner (Hegemony), 
enhanced by The Boss Module attacks the 
Outpost HQ for 2 points of damage. The 
HQ’s Toughness drops down to 18. The 
Brawler (Outpost) hits the Hegemony HQ 
for 2 points of damage and its Toughness 
drops to 18 as well. 
Next, the Ganger (Hegemony) attacks the 
HMG, but instead of destroying it, the 
Medic Module is destroyed (see Medic 
rules). The Universal Soldier attacks the 
Annihilator and kills him instantly. 
The Medic and Annihilator tiles are 
removed from the board.

THE AFTERMATH
The Battle is over and the game goes back 
to the tactical mode, where more tiles are 
drawn and placed on the board. Turn 11 
begins. It’s Hegemony’s turn.
Initiative phase 2 
All units with AN Initiative of 2 act 
simultaneously. The Brawler, thanks to 
his HQ’s special ability, can perform ano-
ther attack, so he inflicts another 2 points 
of damage upon the enemy HQ whose 
Toughness now drops to 16. 
The HMG fires at the Hegemony HQ and 
inflicts 1 wound. The HQ’s Toughness 
drops to 15.
Initiative phase 1 
Only the HMG unit has an Initiative of 1, 
so it’s the only one to act. The HMG fi-
res at the enemy HQ and inflicts another 
point of damage. Its Toughness is now 14.
Initiative phase 0 
Only the HQs have an Initiative level of 0. 
The Hegemony HQ attacks the Brawler 
and kills him. 
The Outpost HQ attacks and kills the 
Runner. 
The Runner and Brawler tiles are removed 
from the board

HEX PUZZLES
Along with the game, the box contains a set of 55 cards with Hex Puzzles. 
Hex Puzzle is a single player solitaire set in the world of Neuroshima Hex. 
Use your strategic skills to lead your troops to victory. If you don’t have 
other players to play with you at the moment or you want to try yourself, 
Hex Puzzles are for you!
Each puzzle requires to use a certain number of the depicted tiles in order 
to win a Battle. Some of the sets, from which the player chooses the tiles, 
may be quite abstract and present more tokens of a particular type than the 
army actually possess. 
BONUS CONTENT
GAME DESIGN: Michał Oracz
DEVELOPEMENT: Portal Publishing
GAME MANUAL: Michał Oracz, Ignacy Trzewiczek
COVER ART: Piotr Cieśliński
TILE ART: Piotr Foksowicz, Łukasz Lalko, Mateusz Bielski
GAME LOGO & WOUND TOKEN: Jakub Jabłoński
PUZZLES DESIGN: Michał „Michallus” Herda (I dedicate these puzzles to 
my beloved Nina. Without her, I wouldn’t ever come back to Hex).
BOX, COUNTER, RULEBOOK, PUZZLE CARDS, REFERENCE CHARTS 
DESIGN: Maciej Mutwil
BOARD & TILE DESIGN: Michał Oracz
TRANSLATION: Adrian ‘Alan’ Bogacz
SPECIAL THANKS: Łukasz Piechaczek, Tomasz Stchlerowski, Rafał Szyma, 
Maciej Mutwil, Ignacy Trzewiczek, Michał Herda.
© 2014 Portal Games
Portal Games Sp. z o.o. , 
ul. św. Urbana 15, 44-100 Gliwice, Poland
Tel/fax: +48 32 334 85 38
www.portalgames.pl
e-mail: portal@portalgames.pl
Made in Poland
Dear Customer, our games are assembled with greatest care. 
However, if your copy lacks anything - we apologize for it. Please, let us know: 
wsparcie@portalgames.pl. 
There are many people who helped Neuroshima HEX become such a good 
game. Many people who helped us create the game, promote it and 
develop it after its premiere. Many people who gave their heart to this 
game. They created new armies, they created new rules, they created 
puzzles, artwork and lots of other stuff. They were running tournaments 
and demo games across Poland. We would like to thank all of you guys, 
and say: Thank you for your support to Neuroshima. Without you HEX 
wouldn’t exist. There are also three guys who helped spread the word of 
NS HEX. They are Piotr Kątnik, Artur Jedliński and Giles Pritchard. 
Thank you. Thank you very much.
Neuroshima Hex™& Portal Games (Publisher), All Rights Reserved. 
Reproduction of any part of this work by any means without the written 
permission of the publisher is expressly forbidden.
winning conditions
puzzle level
and number of
your army tiles 
to choose from
leftover tiles
situation 
after the tile 
choices and before 
the Final Battle
puzzle name
plot
puzzle number
situation 
before tile 
choices
your army tiles 
to choose from
HQs damage
Neuroshima Hex 3.0
Portal Games 2nd print run
Rulebook version 1.1