Components
1 Map board
4 Study boards
The Eighteenth Century is a time of great scientific discoveries, as well as exciting research into mysterious and as yet 
unknown fields. Competition in the academic world is ruthless… above all for young scholars such as yourselves! In 
order to follow in the steps of the great Newton you must devote yourselves to undertaking new research and increasing 
your knowledge in order to become the most highly respected scholar in the world’s scientific community! 
You will travel through Europe visiting cities, universities and ancient lands which were once seats of vast and mysterious 
knowledge. Devote yourselves to studying the works of the great scholars who have gone before and learn new things in 
academic lessons. Experiment original theories to arrive at revolutionary technological inventions. Work hard to provide 
economic support for your research… and try to gain the backing of the great contemporary Masters!
Rulebook
Rulebook
1 Tracks board
10 Objective tiles
10 Invention tiles
10 Specialization 
20 Development 
12 Income tiles
4 Medicine 
Income tiles
7 City tiles
6 University tiles
3 Ancient Land tiles
18 Bonus tokens
32 Coins 
(of values 1 and 5)
20 Potion 
tokens
48 Bookshelf tiles
(12 for each color)
24 Starting Action cards 
(6 for each color)
45 Action cards 
(15 for each level)
20 Master cards
4 Scientists 
(1 for each color)
16 Students 
(4 for each color)
48 Travel cubes 
(12 for each color)
8 Player Markers 
(2 for each color)
1 First Player 
token
4 Summary 

~2~
E
F
G
G
Setup
1 	 Place the Map and the Tracks board in 
the center of the table.
2 	 Randomly place all the City, University 
and 
Ancient 
Land 
in 
the 
appropriate spaces (those with the same 
shape) on the Map.
3 	 Shuffle the Specialization tiles then 
draw 5 of them and randomly place 
them on the appropriate spaces (those 
with the same shape) on the Tracks board. 
Place the remaining Specialization tiles 
back in the box.
4 	 Shuffle the Objective tiles, draw 6 of 
them and randomly place them on the 
appropriate spaces (those with the same 
shape) on the Map and Tracks board. 
Place the remaining Objective tiles back 
in the box.
5 	 For a 4-player game randomly place all 
the Bonus tokens on the appropriate 
spaces (those with the same shape and 
a gold border) on the Map and Tracks 
board. For a 3-player game do not place 
any tokens on the spaces marked with 
a 4. In a 2-player game do not place any 
Bonus tokens on the spaces marked with 
a 4 or 3+. In a 1-player game do not place 
any Bonus tokens on the spaces marked 
with 4, 3+ or 2+. Place the remaining 
Bonus tokens back in the box.
6 	 Shuffle the Invention tiles then draw 
5 of them and randomly place them on 
the appropriate spaces (those with the 
same shape) on the Tracks board. Place 
the remaining Invention tiles back in 
the box.
7 	 Divide the Income tiles by type 
(according to the symbol on the front) and 
place them faceup on the appropriate 
spaces on the Tracks board.

~3~
8 	 Place the Medicine Income tiles on 
their space on the Map, with the side 
showing 1 Victory Point faceup.
9 	 Place the Coins and the Potion tokens 
on the table to form a common pool. 
Coins and Potion tokens are considered 
to be unlimited (in the very rare case you 
need more of them, use some other item).
10 	 Divide the Action cards by level 
(according to the symbol on the back), 
shuffle each of the 3 decks separately 
and place them facedown on the table. 
Draw 3 cards from each deck and place 
them faceup next to the relative decks to 
form 3 lines. For a 1-player game draw 2 
cards from each deck instead of 3.
11 	 Divide the Development tiles by type 
(according to the symbol on the front) and 
place them faceup on the appropriate 
spaces on the Tracks board.

~4~
Choose a color and:
A 	 Randomly choose a Study board and 
place it in front of you.
B 	 Take the 12 Bookshelf tiles of your 
color and place 3 tiles in each of 
the appropriate spaces on your 
Study board.
C 	 Take the 12 Travel cubes of your color 
and place 1 in each of the appropriate 
spaces on your Study board.
D 	 Take the 6 Starting Action cards of 
your color.
E 	 Take the Scientist of your color and 
place it on the Map in the starting space 
of Basel.
Randomly choose who will be the first 
player, and give them the First Player token 
(for a 1-player game the token is not used). 
Shuffle the Master cards and deal 4 to each 
player. Place the remaining Master cards 
back in the box.
	For your first game, keep the Master 
cards you receive.
	For following games: all of the players 
simultaneously choose 1 card to keep 
and pass the remaining cards to the 
player on their left. Continue doing so 
until all players have 4 Master cards. 
	For a 1-player game: draw 6 Master cards 
and choose 4 to keep.
F 	 Take the 4 Students of your color, place 
1 of them in the starting space of the 
Technology track on the Tracks board and 
place the other 3 next to your Study board.
G 	 Take the 2 Markers of your color. Place 
1 of them in the starting space of the 
Work track on the Tracks board and 
place the other on the Map in the space 
marked ‘O’ on the Victory Points track 
(see previous pages for points E, F and G).
H 	 Take 1 Summary tile and place it next 
to your Study board. Place the remaining 
Summary tiles back in the box.
I 	 Take 2 Coins and place them next to 
your Study board.
A game is played over 6 rounds, each of which is 
divided into 2 phases: the Action phase and the 
End Round phase. In the Action phase players 
place cards on their desk, on the Study Board, 
in order to perform various actions. At the end 
of the round they have to move one of the cards 
they have played under their desk: this card 
can no longer be played, but the symbol on it 
will increase the value of that action when it 
is performed later in the game. Players receive 
Victory Points as an immediate bonus, as 
income during the game, or from Objective tiles 
and Master cards at the end of the game. At the 
end, the player with most Victory Point wins!
A
B
C
D
J
J
K
K
F
H
I
Player Setup
How to Play

~5~
During the action phase players play one turn 
after another in a clockwise direction starting 
from the first player. 
On their turn each player must play 1 Action card 
from their hand onto the desk on their Study 
board, and they may, if they wish, perform any 
number of Quick actions (see page 9).
Every Action card has a Basic Action Symbol in 
its lower half, and may or may not have a Special 
Effect symbol in its upper half (see page 14).
To play an Action card take it from your hand and 
place it on your desk in the first available space 
from left to right. Then perform the Basic Action 
and apply the Special Effect if there is one. If you 
wish you can decide not to perform the basic 
action and/or not to apply the special effect. 
You can perform a card’s Basic Action, apply 
its special effect and perform Quick Actions in 
the order that you wish. 
The value of a Basic Action is the same as 
the total number of symbols of that same 
particular action that are visible on your desk, 
including the one on the Action card that you 
have just played. 
Important! You can always choose to perform a 
Basic action at a lower value than the total number 
of symbols of that action visible on your desk.
In the following pages we will describe all the 
Basic Actions (pages 6 to 8).
Action Phase
EXAMPLE: Alice plays this card (the third one 
from the left) to perform the depicted Basic Action. 
This action has a value of 3, because there are 3 
symbols of the same kind visible on the desk.
Bookshelf
Income
Immediate
Bonuses
Book Spaces
Desk
Desk
Basic Action 
Symbols
Special
Effect

~6~
Move your Marker forward on the Work track by 
a number of spaces equal (or inferior) to the value 
of the action. 
Receive a number of Coins equal to the value of 
the Action. Take the Coins from the common pool 
and add them to your personal supply.
If you have already reached the last space on the 
Work track you can still perform the Work action 
to receive Coins without moving your Marker. 
In order to activate the effects of a Special space 
on the track, your Marker must end its movement 
in that exact space. (For the effects of tiles and the 
Master space, see page 12 onwards.) 
If, in order to finish your movement on one of the 
special spaces and apply its effects, you choose to 
move your Marker by a value which is lower than 
the total number of symbols visible on your desk, 
you can only receive a number of Coins equal to 
the number of moves your Marker makes. 
In order to move your Marker into the Objective 
space at the end of the track, you must meet the 
requirement depicted next to it (see page 9).
EXAMPLE: Sarah performs a Work action at a value of 3, but she decides to move her Marker only by 2 spaces to activate the 
Special Space. She receives 2 Coins and moves her Marker forward by 2 spaces.
EXAMPLE: Alice performs the Technology action at a value of 
3. She decides to move the Student depicted. After the first step, 
she takes and activates the Bonus token; then she decides to 
take the route on the right to end the movement on the Special 
Space and activate it.
Work
Technology
Move ONE of your Students forward on the 
Technology track by a number of spaces equal (or 
inferior to) the value of the action. 
The technology track starts in one space but then 
splits into different paths. When you move your 
Student from the starting space and each time that 
you find yourself at a fork in the road you will have to 
choose which path you wish to take. The 6 final spaces 
on the track are marked with the highlighted symbol.
Your Students can only move forwards. They 
cannot turn back down a path. 
You cannot move more than one Student in the 
same action, that is, you cannot split the value of 
an action between Students. If you do not have any 
Students on the track or on the starting space you 
cannot perform a Technology action. 
When your Student passes over a Bonus token, 
take it and activate its effect. In order to activate the 
effects of a special space on the track your Student 
must end its movement in that exact space. (For the 
effects of tiles and the Master space, see page 12 onwards.) 
In order to move your Student into the Objective 
space (at the end of 4 of the paths) you must meet the 
requirement depicted next to it (see page 9).
There cannot be more than one Student of the 
same color on the last space of a path. However, 
there is no limit to the number of Students that 
can occupy the same space along the path.
Special Spaces
Master Space
Objective Space
Special Spaces
Final Space Symbol

~7~
Move your Scientist along the routes on the Map 
by a number of spaces equal (or inferior) to the 
value of the action.
Each time that you move your Scientist along 
a route which has a cost to be paid in Coins you 
must first pay the number of Coins indicated. 
On the Map there are different types of places 
connected by routes. There are 6 Universities, 3 
Ancient Lands, 7 Cities, 14 Villages, 1 Master space, 1 
Objective space and the starting space. The routes pass 
over land, sea, or both, and some have a cost in Coins. 
When your Scientist passes over a Bonus token, 
take it and activate its effect. If your Scientist 
finishes its movement on a City, University, Ancient 
Land, Objective or Master space, take a Travel 
cube from your Study board and place it on that 
space. (For the effects of tiles and the Master space, see 
page 12 onwards.) 
You must take the Travel cubes from your Study 
board from top to bottom and from right to left. 
When you place your 9th/10th/11th/12th Travel cubes, 
you immediately receive 1/2/4/8 Victory Points 
respectively. 
There cannot be more than 1 Travel cube of each 
color in the same space. There is no limit to the 
number of Scientists which can occupy the same 
space on the Map.
In order to move your Scientist into the Objective 
space, you must meet the requirement depicted 
next to it (see page 9).
EXAMPLE: Frank performs a Travel action at a value of 4, but he decides to move his scientist by only 3 spaces to end the 
movement in Istanbul. After the second step, he takes and activates the Bonus token; then he places one of his Travel cubes on 
the City tile.
EXAMPLE: Sarah performs a Lessons action at a value of 2. 
She can take one of the highlighted cards.
Travel
Lessons
Take ONE of the available Action cards with a value equal 
(or inferior) to the value of the action played and add it 
to your hand. You can play it from the next turn. Don’t 
replace the card that you have taken: Action cards will be 
replaced during the End Round phase (see page 10).
The value of an Action card corresponds to the number 
of Lessons symbols shown on the back of the card. 
Important! As you have to place an Action card under your 
Study board at the end of every round (see End Round Phase, 
page 10), it is extremely important to get new Action cards 
to avoid not having any cards to play later in the game! 
Remember that Action cards which are not Starting Action 
cards always feature a special effect which will give you a 
greater variety of options (see special effects on page 14).
You cannot take more than one card in the same action, 
that is, you cannot split the value of an action between cards. 
If you do not have any Action cards in your hand when 
it is your turn, you cannot perform Basic Actions!

~8~
Take ONE of your Bookshelf tiles and place it on 
your Study board in a book space of your choice 
on a shelf of a value equal (or inferior) to the value 
of the action. 
The bookshelf on your Study board is composed 
of book spaces (squares) distri­buted over 3 shelves 
(on horizontal lines), each of which has a different 
value (1/2/3 Study symbols). Each book space shows a 
require­ment (see below). The spaces on the bookshelf 
showing a windowpane divide the rows and columns 
of book spaces. The bookshelf tile printed in the 
bottom left-hand corner of the bookshelf is considered 
already placed. When all the adjacent book spaces in 
a row or column have been filled, you have made a 
scientific discovery, and can receive its income in 
Victory Points according to the number indicated by 
the arrow. At the bottom of the bookshelf there are 5 
spaces for Income or Medicine Income tiles. 
In order to place a Bookshelf tile you must meet 
the requirement shown in the book space where 
you want to place it (for requirements, see next page).
Bookshelf tiles must be taken from your 
supply from top to bottom. When you take 
the third Bookshelf tile from a pile you 
immediately receive a bonus (1 Potion token/ 
4 Coins/1 Master card/8 Victory Points).
You cannot place more than one Bookshelf tile in 
the same action, that is, you cannot split the value 
of an action between book spaces. If you do not 
have any Bookshelf tile left in your supply you 
cannot perform a Study action.
If you complete a row or column of book spaces 
you receive its income in Victory Points according 
to the number indicated by the arrow on that row 
or column (see End Round Phase, page 10).
Frank performs a Study action at a value of 2. He 
takes his first available Bookshelf tile to place it on his 
bookshelf and he immediately receives 1 Potion token. 
He is able to place the bookshelf tile on one of the 
highlighted book spaces because he meets both of their 
requirements (he has visited the University II and he 
has a blue Volume on his desk). He decides to place it on 
the blue Volume space to activate that column income. 
During the end round phase of the current round, and 
of all following rounds, he will receive 2 Victory Points. 
EXAMPLE: Sarah plays the Joker card to perform a Travel 
action. That action has a value of 4, because there are already 3 
symbols of that action visible on the desk.
Study
Joker
EXAMPLE: Frank has 
visited the University of 
Bologna (II).
Action cards with a Joker symbol can be used to 
perform a basic action of your choice.
The value of the action you choose to perform is 
equal to the total number of symbols of that action 
visible on your desk plus 1 (for the Joker played). When 
the Joker has been played the Joker symbol visible 
on your desk is never counted when calculating the 
value of actions performed later in the game.
The Joker symbol is not counted towards the value 
of an action even if the Joker is placed under your 
Study board at the end of a round (see End Round 
Phase, page 10).

~9~
Whenever you have to meet a requirement 
(during a Study action or to activate an Objective tile), 
you can spend Potion tokens in order to meet that 
re­quirement more easily in the following ways:
You can spend 1 Potion token in 
place of one Volume which is 
required (by a book space or by 
an Objective tile). You can replace 
multiple Volumes by spending 1 
Potion token for each.
You can spend 3 Potion tokens 
in place of one University or 
Ancient Land which is required 
by a book space.
Before, during or after performing a Basic 
Action, you can spend Coins to perform any 
number of the following quick actions.
Turn over 2 Action cards from 
a deck. Cost: 1 Coin. Repeatable.
Spend 1 Coin. Draw the first 2 
Action cards from a deck of your choice and 
place them faceup next to the relative deck. 
Leave the Action cards drawn where they 
are. There is no limit to the number of cards 
available in a line.
Increase the value of a basic 
action. Cost: 2 Coins. Only once 
per turn.
Spend 2 Coins. Add 1 to the value of the Basic 
Action you are performing. This quick action 
can only be applied once per turn and can only 
increase the value of a basic action that you 
are performing thanks to an Action card. You 
cannot pay 4 Coins to increase an action’s value 
by 2, nor is it possible to increase the value of a 
basic action being performed with an Invention 
tile or a Master card (see page 13 and 15). 
Buy a Potion token. 
Cost: 3 Coins. Repeatable. 
Spend 3 Coins. Take 1 Potion 
token from the common pool and add it to 
your personal supply. 
Enroll a new Student. 
Cost: 5 Coins. Repeatable.
Spend 5 Coins. Take a Student 
from your personal supply and place it in the 
starting space of the Technology track.
Quick Actions
Requirements, Volumes and Potions
In order to place Bookshelf tiles and to be able 
to activate Objective tiles, you must meet the 
requirements shown (Volumes, University or 
Ancient Land) in the book or Objective space. 
In order to meet a University or Ancient Land 
requirement, you must have visited the University 
or Ancient Land shown on their space (one of 
your Travel cubes must be on that space). 
In order to meet a Volumes requirement, you 
must have those Volumes available, that is, they 
must be visible on your desk (or on a Master card 
that you have played). You can use any available 
Volume to meet different requirements during 
the same round. 
EXAMPLE: Sarah plays the Joker card to perform a Travel 
action and she spends 2 Coins to increase that action’s value. 
That action has a value of 5 (3 visible symbols on the desk + 1 
for the Joker + 1 for the quick action).

~10~
The action phase ends when all players have 
played 5 turns (this is shown by the players’ desks 
which will be filled with Action cards).
The end round phase can be played 
simultaneously by all players to speed up the 
game play.
Next, all players take the rest of the cards 
they have played back in their hands.
All players then receive all the active income 
from the Bookshelf on their Study boards.
All the available Action cards (facing up) 
in each line are put back at the bottom of the 
relative deck. Draw 3 new cards from each 
deck (in a 1-player game, only draw 2 cards from 
each deck). The cards are limited: if you don’t 
If you receive Victory Points, move your Marker 
along the Victory Points track by a number of 
spaces equal to the number of points received.
Each player must choose ONE of the 
Action cards they have played and place it 
under their Study board in correspondence 
with the first column of free drawers from the 
left of the desk.
The special effects of the cards under the desk 
can no longer be used in the rest of the game.
have enough cards to fill a line, just leave that 
line uncompleted. 
The First Player token passes to the next 
player in a clockwise direction.
EXAMPLE: Alice receives the following income: 2VPs and 4 VPs for completed row and column; 1VP for the Medicine Income 
tile, 1 Potion token for the Income tile.
End Round Phase
Active income may come from complete rows or columns on your Bookshelf or by Income tiles placed on your Bookshelf.

~11~
The game ends after the end round phase of 
the sixth round. The number of rounds played 
can be seen by the number of Action cards that 
have been placed under the players’ Study 
boards. When you have placed the fifth Action 
card under your desk (filling the available 
spaces) you have finished the action phase of 
the fifth round: play for one more round!
Each player receives Victory Points for the 
Objective spaces occupied by any piece of 
their color (a Travel cube, a Student or a Marker). 
Players also receive the Victory Points shown 
on the Master cards that they have played 
during the game. 
The player with the most points wins. In case 
of a tie, the tied players share the victory.
1-Player Scoring
End of the Game
EXAMPLE: Alice ends her game in the 
depicted situation. She has Travel cubes 
on Bologna, Paris, Leipzig, Amsterdam, 
Napoli, Athenai, Istanbul, Krakow and on 
the Objective space; she has Students on the 
depicted Objective spaces of the Technology 
track and her Marker is on the Objective 
space on the Work track; she has played 
the depicted Master cards and collected the 
depicted Bonus tokens; she received 34 VPs 
during the game.At the end of the game she 
receives for these fulfilled Objectives:
 12 VPs for visiting 4 Universities
10 VPs for collecting 5 Bonus tokens
12 VPs for playing 3 Master cards
5 VPs for visiting 1 Ancient Land
She also receives 11 VPs from the 
Master cards:
Her final score is 84 Victory Points!
Level Reached
0 - 40
41 - 50
51 - 60
61 - 70
71 - 80
81 - 90 
91 - 100
101 - 110
110 - 120 
120+
Illiterate
Scribe
Student
Scholar
Professor
Dean
Luminary
Master of knowledge
Genius
Science Legend
Victory Points
At the end of the game, compare your score 
with the table shown below to see how much 
academic glory you have managed to receive!

~12~
In the following pages we will describe how all 
the components of the game work.
Bonus Tokens
Bonus tokens give an immediate bonus to the first 
player who manages to take them. Bonus tokens 
are found on the Map and on the Technology track.
When your Scientist or one of your Students 
passes over a Bonus token (you do not have to finish 
your movement on the token), take it, activate its 
effect and keep it next to your Study board.
	Receive the number of Coins shown.
	Receive the number of VPs shown.
	Receive the number of Potion tokens shown.
	Place a new Student at the bottom the 
Specialization Tiles
Specialization tiles allow you to gain a bonus of an 
Income tile or Development tile. 
When and only if, one of your Students (on the 
Technology track) or your Marker (on the Work track) 
finishes their movement on a Specialization tile, 
take the corresponding tile (the shown Income or 
Development tile) and place it on your Study board 
(a tile with the ? symbol indicates a tile of the kind of 
your choice. Once chosen it cannot be changed).
Development Tiles
Development tiles are symbols which are added 
to the Basic Action shown on the tile. You need 
them to increase the value of that action every 
time that you perform it!
When you take a Development tile (as an effect of a 
Specialization tile), place it in one of the free drawer 
spaces in the second row of your desk.
If all 5 of the drawers in your desk are already full 
you can substitute one of the Development tiles 
you placed earlier in the game. 
Income and Medicine Tiles
Income tiles give you a bonus (2 VPs, 2 Coins, 
1 Potion token) during the income phase of each round.
The Medicine Income tile gives you 1 or 3 VPs 
depending on the number of cities showing the 
medicine symbol you have visited (see next page). 
When you take an Income tile (as an effect of a 
Specialization tile), place it in a free income space 
in your bookshelf. If all 5 of the income spaces on 
your bookshelf are already full you can substitute 
one of the Income tiles you placed earlier in the 
game. 
Tokens, Tiles and Cards

~13~
Invention Tiles
Invention tiles give you an immediate bonus.
When and only if, one of your Students (on the 
Technology track) or your Marker (on the Work track) 
finishes their movement on an Invention tile, you 
immediately receive the bonus indicated. 
	
Receive 1 Potion token and 6 VPs.
	
Receive 2 Potion tokens and 3 VPs.
	
Receive 5 Coins and place one of 
your Students at the bottom of the 
	
Receive 2 VPs and 2 Coins for every 
Master card you have played.
	
Receive 2 VPs for every University 
you have visited (University tiles with 
one of your Travel cubes on them).
	
Receive 2 VPs and perform a 
Technology Basic Action of value 
1 for each Ancient Land you have 
visited.
	
Receive 1 VP and perform a Work 
Basic Action of value 1 for each 
completed row or column in your 
bookshelf.
	
Receive 2 Coins and perform a 
Study Basic Action of value 3.
	
Receive 2 VPs and perform a 
Lessons Basic Action of value 3.
	
Receive 1 Potion token and perform 
a Travel Basic Action of value 3.
Important! All the Basic Actions which are 
played as an effect of an Invention tile must be 
of a value equal (or inferior) to that indicated on 
the tile. You cannot increase the action’s value by 
adding the number of the same symbols visible 
on your desk, or by spending 2 Coins.
City Tiles
City tiles give you an immediate bonus when you place 
a Travel cube on the tile (at the end of your Scientist’s 
movement or as the effect of a Master Card, see page 16).
When, and only if, you place a Travel cube (at the end of 
your Scientist’s movement or as the effect of a Master Card, 
see page 16), immediately receive the bonus shown. 
Receive 4 Coins.
Receive 2 Potion tokens.
Place a new Student at the bottom of the 
Pay 2 Coins and place a Travel cube on a 
University of your choice.
Pay 2 Coins and place a Travel cube on an 
Ancient Land of your choice.
City of Medicine: if this is the first City of 
Medicine that you have visited, take the 
Medicine Income tile from the Map and 
place it on one of the income spaces on 
your bookshelf with the 1 VP side faceup. 
If it is the second City of Medicine that you have 
visited, turn over the Medicine Income tile on your 
bookshelf so that 3 PV is facing up. 
Objective tiles
Objective tiles enable you to receive Victory Points 
(VP) at the end of the game by meeting the conditions 
shown. There are Objective tiles on the Map, at the 
end of the Work track and at the end of 4 paths on the 
In order to activate an Objective space (on the Map or 
at the end of a track) you must meet the requirement of 
having the 4 Volumes shown next to the space.
If you arrive at an Objective tile with a piece in your 
color (a Travel cube, a Marker, a Student), you activate 
that Objective: at the end of the game you will receive 
Victory Points according to the conditions shown on 
the tile. 

~14~
Receive 1 VP for each Coin you have left 
in your supply at the end of the game. 
The maximum number of VPs you can 
receive is 14 (even if you have more than 14 Coins).
Receive 2 VPs for each Potion token 
you have left in your supply at the 
end of the game. The maximum 
number of VPs you can receive is 14 (even if you 
have more than 7 Potion tokens). 
Receive 2 VPs for each Bonus token 
you have left in your supply at the 
end of the game. The maximum 
number of VPs you can receive is 14 (even if you 
have more than 7 Bonus tokens).
Receive 3 VPs for each Uni­versity 
you visited during the game (the 
University tiles with one of your Travel 
cubes on). The maximum number of VPs you can 
receive is 15 (even if you have visited more than 5 
universities).
Receive 5 VPs for each Ancient Land 
you visited during the game (the Ancient 
Land tiles with one of your Travel cubes on). 
Receive 4 VPs for each of your Students 
which reached the end of a path of the 
Technology track during the game (see 
page 6 for the final spaces on the track).
Receive 4 VPs for each Master card 
you played during the game.
Receive 4 VPs for every 3 Bookshelf 
tiles that you placed on your 
bookshelf during the game.
Receive 5 VPs for every 3 differ­ent 
Volumes that you have on the Action 
cards available to you at the end of 
the game (both on those in your hand and on those 
which you played on your desk in the final round, but 
not those placed under your desk) and on your Master 
cards. The maximum number of VPs you can 
receive is 15, even if you have more than 3 sets of 3 
differ­ent Volumes. You cannot use Potion tokens to 
replace Volumes required by this Objective. 
Receive 3 VPs for each pair of Action 
cards (not Starting Action cards) which 
are available to you at the end of the 
game (both those in your hand and those which you 
played on your desk in the final round, but not those 
placed under your desk). The maximum number of 
VPs you can receive is 15, even if you have more 
than 5 pairs of (not starting) Action cards available.
The Special Effects of Action Cards
Action cards which are not Starting Action cards 
always have a special effect which is shown in their 
upper half.
	
Spend the amount shown on the left in 
order to receive that shown on the right. 
1 Volume of your choice.
Receive 1 VP for each Volume of the 
color shown, available to you (on your 
desk and on the Master cards you have 
played). You cannot use Potion tokens to replace 
Volumes required by this special effect. 
Spend 3 Coins in order to place a second 
bookshelf tile in the same action. The 
value of the action must be split. 
Example: Alice per­forms a Study action at a 
value of 3 playing this card. She can place 2 Bookshelf tiles 
on the first line or 1 in the first and 1 in the second.
	
Double the effect of the Bonus tokens 
that you collect performing the 
Technology action of this card.
Spend 2 Coins to move your Scientist 
to any free Village (with a silver or gold 
border without Bonus tokens). You can 
apply this effect either before or after performing 
the Basic Travel action.
Apply the immediate special effect 
(with a lightning symbol) of an Action 
card which has already been placed on 
your desk.
Discard 1 Action card from your hand 
(remove it from the game) and receive 4 
VPs and 2 Coins.
Receive 4 VPs for each set of 3 iden­tical 
Volumes available to you (on your desk 
and on the Master cards you have played).
You cannot use Potion tokens to replace Volumes 
required by this special effect. 
Spend 4 Coins to ignore the 
requirements of the book space where 
you want to play a Study action.
Spend 2 Coins to place more than one 
Travel cube during this Travel action. (you 
can place a cube in a place you pass through 
and in the place where you finish your movement).
 

~15~
The Master Cards
Each Master has a special power and gives Victory 
Points at the end of the game. 
Master cards can be played in 4 different ways:
 If one of your Students finishes its movement 
on the Master space at the end of a path on the 
	 If your Marker finishes its movement on the 
Master space on the Work track.
	 By placing a Travel cube on the Master space 
on the Map. 
	 By placing 9 Bookshelf tiles. 
When you play a Master card, place it next to 
your Study board. If there is an immediate effect, 
shown by the lightning symbol, perform the 
effect immediately.
If the immediate effect is a Basic Action you must 
perform the action using the value shown (or an 
inferior value). You cannot add symbols of the same 
type visible on your desk, nor can you spend 2 
Coins to increase its value. 
Robert Boyle: Perform a Study action 
with a value of 4. With this action 
you can place more Book­shelf tiles 
and divide the value of the action (for 
example, by placing 1 bookshelf tile 
on shelf 1, and another on shelf 3; or 4 
Bookshelf tiles on shelf 1, etc.). You must 
meet the requirements in each book 
space you wish to fill. 
 
Tycho Brahe: Gives you 2 per­ma­nent 
blue Volumes. 
 
 
 
Thomas Browne: Perform a Lessons 
action with a value of 4. With this action 
you can take more than one Action card 
by splitting the value of the action (for 
example, by taking a card with a value of 
1 and a card with a value of 3, or 4 cards 
each with a value of 1, etc.).
Giordano Bruno: Receive 6 Coins.
René Descartes: Perform a Lessons 
action with a value of 1. Immediately 
perform the Basic Action of the Action 
card you choose to take as if you have 
played that card on your desk (the value 
of the Action is the total number of symbols 
visible on your desk plus 1).
Margaret Cavendish: Permanently 
remove from your supply the 
2 top­most Bookshelf tiles.
Nicolaus Copernicus: Perform a Study 
action with a value of 3. Ignore the 
requirements of the book space you 
decide to fill.
Nicola Cusano: Receive 3 Potion tokens.
Daniel Fahrenheit: Gives you 1 
permanent Volume. You may choose 
the color of the Volume each time that 
you use this Master’s power.
Galileo Galilei: Perform a Travel action 
with a value of 3. You can place 1 Travel 
cube on each place you pass through.
William Gilbert: Place 1 Student at the 
bottom of the Technology track.

CRANIO CREATIONS EDITION:
Designers: Nestore Mangone & 
Simone Luciani
Illustrations and Graphic Design: 
atelier198
English Rules: Laura Dadson 
Bubola
Editor: Giuliano Acquati
CMON EDITION:
Production: Isadora Leite (Lead), 
Patricia Gil, Thiago Gonçalves, 
Guilherme Goulart, & Renato 
Sasdelli
Proofreading: Thiago Aranha & 
Bryan Steele
Publisher: David Preti
Edmond Halley: Perform a Technology 
action with a value of 4. With this 
action you can move more than 1 
Student by splitting the value of the 
action (for ex­am­ple, by moving 1 Student 
by 1 space and another by 3 spaces, or by 
moving 4 Students by 1 space each).
Christiaan Huygens: Perform a 
Work action with a value of 3. If, by 
performing this action, you reach the 
Objective tile at the end of the track, 
ignore the requirements necessary to 
activate it.
Johannes Kepler: Perform a Work 
action with a value of 6. You do not 
receive Coins for this action.
Gottfried Leibniz: Gives you 
2 permanent orange Volumes.
Isaac Newton: Gives you 
2 permanent green Volumes.
Paracelsus: Perform an action of your 
choice with a value of 3.
Blaise Pascal: Perform a Travel action 
with a value of 5. You do not have to pay 
any Travel costs.
Evangelista Torricelli: Perform a 
Technology action with a value of 3. If, 
by performing this action, you reach an 
Objective tile, ignore the requirements 
necessary to activate it.
Maria Winkelmann: Place 1 Travel cube 
in a space of your choice on the map. 
You cannot place it on the Master space 
or on the Objective space.
 Acknowledgments 
Nestore Mangone would like to thank:
‘I Belli di Roma’ (Flaminia, Gabriele, Marco, 
Tommaso and Virginio), the Congrega del 
Dado Incantato, Battista and Valentina for 
their support and for helping with tests, and 
above all, Marilena, without whom this game 
would not be what it is. 
Simone Luciani would like to thank:
Samantha Milani for always being beside 
me in every new gaming adventure, Claudio 
Ciccalè, Martina and Andrea, Luigi Coccia, 
Paolo Toffanello, Enrico Tombolini, Daniel 
Marinangeli, Daniele Tascini, Ido Traini, 
Franco Mari and the Moie gamers, the guys 
from Spazio Ludico, and the Rolling Gamers 
for their enthusiasm at every test.