The city of London has hired you to redesign 
their Underground lines! 
Optimize your interchanges, stop at as many tourist 
sites as you can and take advantage of the tunnels 
passing under the Thames, all while following the 
requirements put in place by the city. 
Which one of you will be the best metro planner? 
TM
RULES
1-4 25 min
8+
GAME CONTENTS
 
z 1 pad with maps of London 
 
z 4 different colored pencils : purple, blue, pink and green. 
 
z 11 Station cards: 6 Street cards (blue background) and 
5 Underground cards (pink and yellow background) 
 
z 5 Shared Objective cards 
 
z 4 Pencil Power cards

OBJECT OF THE GAME
Score as many points as you can by 
optimizing the routes of the 4 Underground 
lines on your map of London. 
 
} Each player takes one Map of London sheet and one 
colored pencil and places this in front of them. 
 
zIn a 3 player game, place the remaining pencil on 
the table between two of the players. This pencil 
will be used later in the game.
 
zIn a 2 player game, place one each of the 2 remaining 
pencils to the left of both players. These pencils will 
be used later in the game.
 
zFor the solo game, follow the instructions found at 
the end of these rules in the section titled Solo Mode.
 
} When playing your first game, it is recommended to 
leave the 5 Shared Objective cards and the 4 Pencil 
Power cards in the box. They can be added in the 
future for a more advanced game after playing several 
rounds without them.
 
 See Advanced Modules.
 
} The last player to have taken the Underground is the 
controller for the first round. 
GAME OVERVIEW
The game is played over 4 rounds. In each round, all 
the players draw the specific Underground line that 
matches their pencil color on their 
Map sheet. At the end of the 
game, everyone will have 
drawn their own network 
of 4 Underground lines in 
the city of London, one 
line of each color. 

In each of the 4 rounds of the game carry out the 
4 following phases in order:
Identify your departure station
Build your Underground line
Score points for your line
Get ready to build the next Underground line
Departure station for the player using the green pencil 
for this round. 
MAP OF LONDON
Each sheet shows the city of London where you will 
draw your Underground lines and a scoring zone where 
you will note your points. 
DISTRICTS
The city of London is split into 13 districts: 
 
} 9 “Main” districts, each containing several Underground 
stations,
 
} 4 “Secondary” districts, found on the four corners of the 
city and each containing a single Underground station. 
STATIONS
There are 4 kinds of station, each represented by a symbol: 
Square 
Triangle 
Pentagon 
Circle
Departure station for the player using the blue pencil, 
for this round, and so on...
Identify your departure station
Look at your map of London and find where your 
departure station (where your line will begin) is marked. 
This station is the same color as the pencil you are using 
in this round. Each player has one departure station 
that is theirs for the round.

Build your Underground line
This construction phase comprises of several turns 
(between 5 and 10) according to the Station cards that 
are flipped over. On each turn, players can draw a line to 
complete a section of their Underground line with their 
colored pencil to gradually build their Underground line. 
SECTIONS OF THE UNDERGROUND
An Underground line is made up of several sections 
joined together. A section is a line directly joining two 
stations together. 
 
} The controller for the round shuffles 
the 11 Station cards together and 
places these face down in a pile in 
the center of the table.
 
} Each turn, the controller flips over the 
Station card at the top of the pile so it 
is face up. They place it in the middle of the playing area 
so that it and all previously drawn cards are visible. All the 
players then draw a section at the same time, respecting 
the Construction rules (see pages 7 and 8).
3 Score points for your line 
Each Underground line scores points based on the 3 following 
features: the route it takes, how many times it crosses 
under the Thames and the tourist sites it stops at.
Write the number of points you score for each feature 
in your Underground line in your score zone (see pages 
11 and 12). 
Get ready to build the next Underground line 
(Skip this phase at the end of the 4th round!)
After you have added up all your points for your line, 
you will change pencils. 
 
zPass your pencil to the player on your left, and the player 
on your right will give you their pencil.
 
} When the controller flips over the 5th Underground 
card (pink and yellow background) it signals the end 
of this round. Players can draw one last section on 
their Underground line to link their line to a station 
with the symbol shown on this final card. 

 
 In a 2 or 3 player game, if there is unused pencil to your 
right, take it instead. The player to your right places the 
pencil they just used on the table between the two of you.
 
 In a solo game, simply take the next pencil in order (see 
Solo Mode).
 
zPlay the new round with the pencil you have just taken 
to draw a new Underground line in this color. The person 
sitting to the left of the controller for the previous round 
becomes the controller for this round. 
END OF THE GAME
The game ends at the end of the fourth round when all 
players have drawn their network of 4 Underground 
lines in different colors.
Count up the points scored by your Underground 
network as follows: 
 
}Points for the 4 lines: add all the points scored from 
your 4 Underground lines and write this total in the last 
pink square found on the far right of your score line. 
 
}Tourist site points: on your tourist site score track, find 
the leftmost uncrossed circle and write this number 
in the corresponding symbol on your score line. 
 
}Interchange station points: count the points scored for 
all of your interchange stations. There are 3 types 
of Interchange stations: those connecting 2, 3 or 4 
Underground lines.
 
zCount the number of interchange stations of each 
type you have across your whole network and write 
these numbers in their corresponding squares. 
 
zFor each type, multiply the corresponding number 
by the number of points scored for each type: 
 
 each Interchange station connecting 2 lines 
scores 2 points,
 
 each Interchange station connecting 3 lines 
scores 5 points,
 
 each Interchange station connecting 4 lines 
scores 9 points.
 
zAdd together the points scored by each type of 
Interchange station and write this total in the 
corresponding green square on your score line.

Example: John’s 
network passes 
7 times through 
tourist sites. On his 
tourist site score 
track, the leftmost 
uncrossed circle 
shows 14 points. 
He writes this 
number in the 
matching symbol 
on his score line. 
He has nine 
Interchange stations 
connecting 
2 underground lines, 
and no Interchange 
stations connecting 
3 or 4 lines. 
John scores a total 
of 18 points for all 
his Interchange 
stations.
At the end of the 
game, John has a 
final score of 119 (87 + 14 + 18) points for his entire 
London Underground network.
The player with the highest score wins the game and is 
named the best metro planner in London. 
In the event of a tie, the player with the highest score 
for a single Underground line is declared the winner. 
If a tie persists, the players involved share the victory 
for their brilliant planning!
John
29 22 87
 
} :RUNRXW\RXUƓQDOVFRUH by adding together the points 
for your 4 Underground lines, the points for your 
tourist sites and the points for your Interchange 
stations. Write this total in the space found on the 
bottom right of your scoring zone. 

 
 The first section of an Underground line must always 
be drawn starting from the departure station and 
must be connected to a station with the same symbol 
as shown on the card flipped over by the controller.
 
 Each section after this must be drawn from one end 
of your Underground line and must connect to a 
station with the same symbol as shown on the card 
flipped over by the controller. 
 
 
 
Exception: see Special station cards - Railroad Switch. 
Example: John is playing his 
first round with the green pencil. 
His departure station is the one 
with the green Triangle.
The Station card flipped over by 
the controller shows a Circle. 
John chooses to draw a section 
of his Underground line going 
from his departure station to 
the Circle symbol to the left. 
 
zDrawing a section is always optional. If you cannot 
or do not want to draw a section during a turn, ignore 
the Station card that has just been flipped over and 
wait for the next card.
 
z Each section that you draw must be a single straight line 
going horizontally, vertically or diagonally following 
the grey potential lines laid out on the map. 
CONSTRUCTION RULES

 
zDeparture stations: as well as being the starting points 
for the different Underground lines at the beginning 
of each round, the 4 stations below are also used 
like normal stations. This means that it is possible to 
connect other Underground lines to these stations if a 
card with the corresponding symbol is flipped over. 
 
z You cannot go back through a 
station that is already part of 
the same Underground line. 
 
zYou cannot draw more than 
one section going between 
the same two stations.
 
zEach of your sections must always link two stations 
together without crossing through another station or 
crossing over a section that has already been drawn, 
whether for this Underground line or any other lines. 

Special circumstance: if the Railroad Switch card is 
flipped over by the controller on the first or second 
turn of the round then it is ignored.
SPECIAL STATIONS
Central Station: this station, found in the center 
of London, is represented by the question mark 
symbol. This means that each player can draw a 
section of their Underground line that links to this 
station regardless of the symbol shown on the card 
flipped over by the controller.
Tourist sites: five stations in the city are located 
at tourist sites. Each site can be distinguished by 
the compass points surrounding their Underground 
station symbol. 
Connecting one or more Underground lines to tourist 
sites will score you extra points at the end of the game. 
See Tourist Site Points.
Take note : the Central Station symbol is surrounded 
by compass points and is one of the 5 tourist sites in 
the city.
Joker card: if this symbol appears on the card 
flipped over during a turn then each player can 
pick any station symbol they like for the new 
section of their Underground. 
Railroad Switch symbol: during a turn where 
the Railroad Switch card is flipped over, the 
controller immediately flips over the next Station 
card in the pile. The Railroad Switch card allows all the 
players to draw their new section starting from any of 
the stations already on their line. 
This card allows players to create an additional branch 
of their Underground line onto which players can add 
future sections until the end of the round.

Example: the 
controller flips 
over the Railroad 
Switch card and 
then immediately 
flips over the next 
Station card in the 
pile. This card shows 
the Square symbol. 
John could add a 
new section of his Underground line 
going from the circle on the bottom 
of the map to either of the Square 
stations just below and to the right of 
this, as shown by the arrows.
However, he would rather take 
advantage of the Railroad Switch. He 
can use his Triangle station as an intermediate station 
and draw a section linking it to the square station 
found below it, as shown by the dotted line.
Example: during a round, John links his 
pink Underground line to the Pentagon 
station he had passed through with his 
green Underground line in a previous 
round.
Interchange stations: from the second round to 
the end of the game, it is possible to link several 
Underground lines to the same station. This is called 
an Interchange station.
Each Interchange station in your rail network will score 
you extra points at the end of the game depending on the 
number of Underground lines connected to it. 
 
See Interchange station Points.

Find 
the 
district 
in 
which 
your 
Underground 
line 
passes 
through 
the most stations. Write the number 
of stations it passes through in that district in the 
corresponding box. 
CROSSINGS UNDER THE THAMES 
Each section of your Underground line 
that passes under the Thames scores 
you 2 points. 
Count how many sections of your Underground line 
pass under the Thames, multiply this number by 2, 
and write this total in the corresponding box.
TOURIST SITE STOPS
 
zAt the end of each round, count the number of tourist 
sites found on your Underground line. 
 
zFor each tourist site on your line, cross off one 
circle on your tourist site score track. You will score 
additional points for tourist sites at the end of the 
game: see END OF THE GAME. 
Example: during the first round, 
John passes through 2 tourist sites 
with his green Underground line. 
He crosses out 2 circles on his tourist site score track. 
ROUTE TAKEN BY LINE
First, count how many different districts 
your Underground line passes through. 
Write this number in the corresponding box.
Reminder: the city of London is split into 13 districts: 
9 main districts and 4 secondary districts.
 POINTS FOR YOUR LINE

TOTAL POINTS SCORED BY YOUR UNDERGROUND LINE
To work out the total number of points scored by your line, 
multiply the number of different districts crossed by this 
line by the largest number of stations linked together in 
one district, and then add the points scored for crossing 
the Thames to this number.
Example: John 
went through 
6 different 
districts with 
the green 
Underground line. 
On this line, the 
district with the 
most stations 
linked together 
has 3 connected 
stations. This 
line crosses the 
Thames in one 
place, scoring an 
extra 2 points.
John scores a 
total of 20 points 
(6 x 3 + 2) for his 
green line.
Take note: you can only cross out a maximum of 10 
circles on your tourist site score track for a maximum of 
25 points. If you would cross off more circles, you skip 
this action.

ADVANCED MODULES
For a new challenge, you can play Next Station London 
with its advanced modules. Add either Shared Objective 
cards or Pencil Power cards into the mix, or even play 
with both sets of cards!
Shared Objectives (5 cards)
 
} Set up the game as explained in the 
original rules. 
 
} Shuffle the 5 Shared Objective cards 
together face down and randomly draw 
2 cards from the pile. Place these 2 cards face up next 
to the pile of Station cards. Any unused cards are 
placed back in the box.
The 2 Shared Objective cards remain visible for the 
whole game. These are two independent objectives that 
each player can try to complete over the 4 rounds, and 
considers their network as a whole. Each objective that 
is reached by a player scores them 10 extra points at the 
end of the game. 
Description of each Shared Objective card: 
that it connects to at least one station in 
all 13 districts of the city. 
Draw your Underground network with at 
least 8 different Interchange stations (with 
at least 2 different Underground lines going 
through each).

Draw your Underground network such that 
it connects to all 9 stations in the central 
district of the city. 
that it connects to all 5 tourist sites in 
the city.
that it crosses the Thames at least 6 times. 
FINAL SCORING
 
} During the final scoring, for every Shared 
Objective that you have achieved with your 
Underground network, tick a “+10” square in 
the corresponding zone. 
 
} Add 10 points per objective achieved to your 
total to get your final score. 
Pencil Powers (4 cards)
 
} Set up the game as explained in the 
original rules. 
 
} Shuffle together the 4 Pencil Power 
cards face down and assign one random 
card to each pencil. Turn the cards over 
next to each pencil so they are face up. 
 
 In a Solo, a 2 or a 3 player game, assign one Pencil 
Power card to each pencil, even those not currently 
being used. You will use each pencil and its associated 
card during the different rounds of the game. 

Special circumstance: if you use this power 
after a Joker card has been flipped over, you must draw 
your second section so that it connects to a station with 
the same symbol as your first section drawn on this turn. 
Each Pencil Power card is linked to one single pencil color 
for the entire game. Each power is helpful but can only 
be used once per round. Using Pencil Powers is optional 
and you do not have to use them in every round.
Once you have used your Pencil Power card, flip it face 
down in front of you until the end of the round. 
Description of each Pencil Power card: 
Treat the Station card flipped over by the 
controller for this turn as if it were a Joker. 
During a turn, draw a second section of your 
Underground line connecting to another 
station with the same symbol as shown on 
the card flipped over by the controller. 
Treat the Station card flipped over by 
the controller for this turn as if it were 
accompanied by the Railroad Switch card. 
At any point during this round, you can circle 
one of the stations of your choice on your 
line. This station will count for two stations 
instead of one when counting the points for 
the route taken by this line, increasing the 
number of stations connected to in the corresponding 
district. 

Example: 
John 
could 
circle a station in one of 
the districts connected 
to his green line. This 
power would allow him to 
count a total of 4 stations 
connected in this district, 
instead of only 3. 
In that way, John would 
score 26 points (6 x 4 + 2) for his green line. 
 
 Watch out, this bonus will only count for the line you 
are building during this round. It will not count twice 
for any future lines that pass through this station in 
future rounds.
 
} At the end of a round, after writing down all the points 
scored by the line, each Pencil Power card remains 
with its pencil and is passed to the left during the 
Get ready to build the next Underground line phase.
 
} The game is played in the same way as in the original 
rules until the end of the fourth round.

SOLO MODE
You can play Next Station London by yourself in the 
solo mode.
 
} Place the 4 colored pencils on the playing 
area in any order in front of you. 
 
 If you wish, you can add either Shared 
Objective or Pencil Power modules, or even 
both of them! Set up the game as explained 
above according to each module added. 
All the rules are the same as for an ordinary game. 
The order that you have placed the pencils is the order 
that you will draw your corresponding Underground 
lines.
Your goal is to optimize your rail network to earn as 
many points as possible and win the Mayor’s approval! 
FINAL SCORING
When playing with either or both of the advanced 
modules, subtract 10 points from your score for each 
module used before checking the achievement table.
blueorangegames.eu/en/games/
nextstationlondon/#downloads 

< 90 
© 2022 Blue Orange Edition. Next Station London 
and Blue Orange are trademarks of Blue Orange 
Edition, France. Game published and distributed 
under license by Blue Orange, 97 impasse Jean 
Lamour, 54700 Pont-à-Mousson, France. 
www.blueorangegames.eu
LAST STOP! Everybody off! You will need 
to roll up your sleeves and not sleep 
between stations! 
91 < ... < 105 
Did you take the wrong tunnel on the 
way? Try your luck again and use the 
right railroad switch this time.
106 < ... < 120 
That’s it! Your project is taking off! Carry 
on like this and you’ll be the head of the 
construction team! 
121 < ... < 135
Wow, you’re a real site supervisor. It’s 
great to see so many satisfied travellers! 
You’re nearly there. 
136 < ... < 150 
There’s no stopping you! The Mayor 
will definitely hire you to expand the 
Underground network! WELL DONE! 
> 150 
You know the Underground like the back of 
your hand! You really are an underground 
transport expert! CONGRATULATIONS!