TM
tm

Object of the Game
The object of the game is to earn 12 or more victory points 
by completing secret missions and winning battles.
Component List
• 164 Plastic Figures, consisting of:
12 Rubium Dragons (3 per faction)
16 Lava Leapers (4 per faction)
24 Rock Striders (6 per faction)
32 Crystallines (8 per faction)
32 Fungoids (8 per faction)
48 Humans (12 per faction)
• 17 Terrain Tiles
7 Single-hex Tiles
6 Double-hex Tiles
4 Triple-hex Tiles (home base)
• 96 Cardboard Tokens, consisting of:
24 Exploration Tokens
71 Rubium Tokens
1 First Player Marker
• 4 Reference Sheets (1 per faction)
• 32 Energize Cards
• 76 Small Cards, consisting of:
36 Secret Mission Cards
40 Battle Victory/King of the Hill Cards
• 6 Six-sided Dice (3 white, 3 black)
• This Rulebook
Component Overview
This section describes the game’s components.
plastic Figures
These figures represent the different units that players 
command. Players use units to explore the moon’s surface, 
mine rubium, complete secret missions, and battle enemy units.
Game Overview
In Nexus Ops, two to four players control factions of 
corporate troops and indigenous life forms on an alien moon. 
Players deploy troops from their home bases as they explore 
the moon, mine resources, purchase troops, win battles, and 
fulfill missions to win the game.
tm
It’s 2315. Human society depends on an exotic 
energy source called rubium for all of its advanced 
technology. A small group of explorers have recently 
discovered an alien moon that is exceptionally rich in 
rubium. In desperate need of more funding for their 
research, they simultaneously sold the “exclusive” 
mineral rights to four competing corporations: Ares 
Inc., Black Helix Industries, The Galactic Syndicate, and 
Zyborg Technologies. 
By the time the corporations discovered the ruse, the 
explorers had moved on, leaving the corporations 
to contend with the liquifungus forests, the magma 
pools, and the indigenous alien life forms. 
Far out on the galactic frontier, away from oversight or 
public scrutiny, these four corporations now do fierce, 
bloody battle for control of the moon’s rubium. By 
taming and unleashing the rock striders, lava leapers, 
fungoids, crystallines, and the plasma-breathing 
rubium dragons, the corporations hope to eliminate 
their competitors and seize control of the precious 
rubium deposits for themselves. 
Once they have harvested all of the rubium and 
secured the mysterious alien monolith on the moon’s 
surface…well, who knows what sinister agenda lurks 
at the heart of their corporate greed? 
This edition of Nexus Ops contains many new 
optional rules in addition to the classic game. This 
rulebook is written assuming players are playing 
the classic game.
For the optional rules, see pages 9–11.
The Classic Game

Terrain Tiles
These large cardboard tiles are used 
during setup to create the game 
board. This allows for many different 
configurations and provides players with 
a unique battlefield for every game. 
Exploration Tokens
These tokens indicate the rewards that 
units discover after moving into an 
unexplored hex.
rubium Tokens
These tokens represent the game’s currency 
and come in denominations of one and five.
First player marker
This marker indicates which player takes the 
first turn.
reference Sheets
These double-sided sheets 
provide players with a list of 
units, their stats, and their 
abilities. One side shows 
information for the classic game; 
the other side shows information 
for the “Alternate Units” optional 
rule (see page 11). 
Energize Cards
Energize cards provide a temporary bonus, 
such as enhancing a unit’s abilities or 
gaining a tactical advantage in combat. 
Secret mission Cards
Secret Mission cards contain various objectives 
and, when fulfilled, provide the player between 
one and three victory points.
battle Victory cards
All Battle Victory cards are identical and 
provide the player one victory point. The 
backside of this card type is used with the 
“King of the Hill” optional rule (see page 9).
Dice
These standard six-sided dice are used to determine 
hits in battle and other random game elements.
reference Sheet breakdown
1.	 Faction Name
2.	 Unit Name
3.	 Miner Unit Icon
4.	 Unit Cost
5.	 Combat Value
6.	 Restrictions and Abilities
7.	 Phases of a Player’s Turn
liquifungus 
forest
magma 
pool
1-rubium 
crystal 
spires
monolith
2-rubium 
rock 
plains
vortex
3-rubium 
terrain types

Setup
Before playing, set up the game as follows:
1.	 Determine First Player: Randomly determine who plays 
first and give this player the first player marker. That 
player keeps the first player marker for the duration of 
the game.
2.	 Choose Factions: Starting with the first player, each 
player chooses a faction and takes the plastic unit 
pieces and reference sheet for that faction. Place the 
sheet with the red and black striped side faceup.
3.	 Place the Terrain: Place the Monolith hex tile in the 
middle of the play area. Shuffle the six single-hex tiles 
facedown, then place them facedown in a circle around 
the Monolith. Shuffle the six double-hex tiles facedown, 
then place them facedown in a circle around the single-
hex tiles (see diagram on page 12).
4.	 Build Bases: Place a home base tile next to the board 
for each player, in the position indicated by the “Game 
Board Setup” diagram on page 12 (positions will vary 
depending on the number of players). Then flip all 
terrain tiles faceup.
5.	 Prepare the Decks: Shuffle the Secret Mission cards to 
create a deck and place it facedown near the board. 
Shuffle the Energize cards to create a deck and place 
it facedown near the Secret Mission deck. Place all the 
Battle Victory cards faceup in a deck.
6.	 Place Exploration Tokens: Unless using the “Extra 
Exploration Tokens” optional rule (see page 10), return 
the exploration tokens with green borders to the 
game box. Shuffle the remaining exploration tokens 
facedown, then randomly place one token facedown on 
all hexes except home base hexes and the Monolith.
7.	 Prepare Rubium Tokens and Dice: Place the rubium 
tokens in a pile next to the board to create a supply. 
Place the dice near the board.
8.	 Receive Starting Rubium: Each player receives starting 
rubium tokens. The first player starts with 8 rubium, 
and each subsequent player in clockwise order receives 
3 additional rubium (e.g., the second player receives 
11 rubium, the third player receives 14 rubium, and the 
fourth player receives 17 rubium).
a player's Turn
Starting with the first player, each player takes a turn being the 
active player. During his turn, only the active player performs 
the following phases in order:
1.	 Deployment Phase: He may purchase and place new 
units as well as play “Deployment Phase” Energize cards.
2.	 Movement Phase: He may move each unit once.
3.	 Exploration Phase: He reveals facedown exploration 
tokens in hexes where his units are present.
4.	 Battle Phase: He conducts battle in each contested hex 
where his units are present.
5.	 Mining Phase: He collects rubium from each controlled 
hex where his miner units are present. (Miner units 
include Humans, Fungoids, and Crystallines).
6.	 Draw Phase: He draws one Secret Mission card. If he 
controls the Monolith, he also draws two Energize cards.
After completing the Draw phase, the player to his left 
becomes the new active player.
Deployment phase
During the Deployment phase, the active player may purchase 
new units and play “Deployment Phase” Energize cards.
Each unit costs a certain amount of rubium, as shown on 
each player’s reference sheet. The active player may spend his 
rubium to purchase as many units as he would like, provided 
he has sufficient resources to purchase them. He returns spent 
rubium tokens to the supply.
When purchasing units, he takes the corresponding figures 
from his supply and places them on any of his home base 
hexes. The active player may always place these units on 
any of his home base hexes, even if another player’s units 
currently occupy that hex.
The number and type of units that the active player can 
purchase is limited by the number of figures available in 
his supply. It is possible to run out of a particular unit type. 
However, as units are destroyed during the game, they return 
to the player’s supply and may be purchased again later.
The Deployment phase is also the only time that the active 
player may play “Deployment Phase” Energize cards. To play 
an Energize card, the active player must state that he is playing 
it and follow the instructions on the card. After resolving the 
card text, he places it faceup in a discard pile next to the 
Energize deck.
Each player’s hand of cards is hidden.
Each player’s collected rubium, unit supply, Battle 
Victory cards, and fulfilled Secret Mission cards are 
open information and cannot be hidden.
Hidden and open Information

setup diagram (four-player game)
Energize 
Deck
dice
rubium 
supply
first 
player 
marker
Game Board
secret 
mission 
deck
battle 
victory 
deck
black helix industries unit supply
galactic syndicate unit supply
zyborg technologies unit supply
ares inc. unit supply

Exploration phase
During the Exploration phase, the active player reveals all 
facedown exploration tokens in hexes where his units are 
present. The active player may find the following rewards:
If the token only shows a unit, he takes one 
unit of that type from his supply and places it 
in that hex. During his next turn, he can move 
the unit and use it in battle like his other units. 
After placing the unit, return this token to the 
game box.
If the token only shows a refinery, he leaves 
the exploration token faceup on that hex to 
mark the location of the refinery. For more 
details, see “Mining Phase” on page 7.
If the token shows both a unit and a refinery, 
he receives both rewards. He takes one unit 
of that type from his supply and places it in 
that hex. He also leaves the exploration token 
faceup on that hex to mark the location of the 
refinery. For more details, see “Mining Phase” 
on page 7.
Note: Each hex can be explored only once during each game.
battle phase
During the Battle phase, the active player conducts one 
battle in each contested hex where his units are present (see 
“Battle”). If his units are present in multiple contested hexes, 
he chooses the order in which each battle is resolved.
movement phase
During the Movement phase, the active player may move 
each of his units once. Most units only move one hex, 
although some units have abilities that allow them to move 
more than one hex (see “Movement Example” below). When 
the active player moves one of his units into a hex that 
contains enemy units, it must immediately stop in that hex 
(unless its ability says otherwise). Some units cannot enter 
certain hexes, as noted on the reference sheet and indicated 
by the images in the hex’s border.
The active player cannot move his units from one contested 
hex to (or through) another enemy-controlled or contested 
hex. In other words, he cannot move a unit from one battle 
to a different battle. However, he may move a unit from a 
battle to one of his controlled hexes or an unoccupied hex.
Some units have special attacks that occur at the end of 
the Movement phase. These special attacks do not initiate 
a battle, so the active player does not take a Battle Victory 
card if one of these attacks is successful (see page 8).
movement Example
1. The blue player may move his Rock Strider from 
the contested hex. However, it cannot move to (or 
through) another contested hex, which prevents it 
from moving to or through the adjacent Rock Plains 
controlled by the red player. 
2. It may either move to the adjacent Liquifungus 
Forest or to the open Rock Plains.
3. Because of the Rock Strider’s ability, it may 
continue moving through the Rock Plains to the 
Liquifungus Forest containing a 2-rubium refinery.
End of movement phase 
attack Example
At the end of the Movement phase, the red player has 
one Rubium Dragon in a controlled Crystal Spires hex.
He uses its special attack to target the adjacent Rock 
Plains hex. The red player rolls a “5,” which scores a 
hit. The blue player removes the Fungoid as a casualty.
If the red player also had a Rubium Dragon in the 
Rock Plains, it would now be in a controlled hex 
and could perform its special attack against the 
lone Crystalline in the Magma Pool.
A hex is considered controlled if only one 
player has units in the hex. Alternatively, a hex is 
considered contested if more than one player has 
units in the hex. A hex is considered unoccupied 
if no player has units in the hex.
states of Hexes

battle
This section explains how to conduct a battle.
battle Order
Units attack in a specific order, known as the battle order. 
This order is indicated on the reference sheet and runs from 
right to left – with the most powerful units attacking first, and 
the least powerful attacking last. In other words, all Rubium 
Dragons attack first, then all surviving Lava Leapers attack, 
followed by all surviving Rock Striders, and so on. 
Each unit rolls only one attack during battle. After each unit 
attacks in order, the battle is over – even if both the attacker 
and defender have units remaining in that contested hex.
When a unit type attacks, both the attacking player and the 
defending player simultaneously roll for each of their units of 
that type. The attacker rolls the black dice and the defender 
rolls the white dice. One hit is scored for each die result 
that is equal to or higher than the unit’s combat value (see 
“Reference Sheet Breakdown” on page 3).
For each hit scored, the opposing player must remove one 
casualty. He chooses one of his units in the contested hex 
and returns it to his supply. That unit does not participate 
in the rest of the battle. If the unit is removed from battle 
before it has a chance to attack, it no longer has the 
opportunity to attack.
The active player is always the attacker, and the other 
player involved in the battle is always the defender. In cases 
where more than one opponent has units in a hex, the active 
player chooses one of those opponents to be the defender. 
Only the attacker and the defender participate in the battle. 
If the attacker destroys all of the defender’s units, the attacker 
wins the battle (although the hex is still contested).
results of battle
The attacker wins a battle if all of the defender’s units are 
destroyed. When the attacker wins a battle, he draws one 
Battle Victory card from the pile and places it faceup in 
his play area. He may also play one Secret Mission: Battle 
card from his hand if he fulfilled the conditions on the card 
during this battle. For more details, see “Card Types” on 
page 9.
The defender loses a battle if all of his units in the contested 
hex are destroyed. When the defender loses a battle, he may 
draw one Energize card.
If both players mutually destroy each other in the hex, then the 
attacker wins and the defender loses.
If both the attacker and the defender have at least one unit 
remaining in the contested hex at the end of a combat round, 
neither player wins or loses the battle.
mining phase
During the Mining phase, the active player collects rubium 
from refineries in each controlled hex where at least one of 
his miner units is present. He takes rubium tokens from the 
supply equal to the refinery’s number and places them in his 
play area.
Note: Only units marked with the claw icon 
on the 
reference sheet are considered miner units.
Draw phase
During the Draw phase, the active player draws one Secret 
Mission card and keeps it hidden in his hand. If he draws a 
Secret Mission: Objective card and meets its requirements, 
he can play it immediately. For more details, see “Secret 
Mission Cards” on page 8.
If he controls the Monolith hex, he draws two Energize 
cards and keeps them hidden in his hand until he chooses 
to play them.
mining Example
The red player proceeds to the Mining phase. He has 
one Human on each of his home base hexes. He also 
has one Crystalline in a controlled hex that contains a 
1-rubium refinery. 
He does control a hex with a 2-rubium refinery, but 
he does not have any miner units there. As such, he 
cannot collect rubium from that hex. So, in total, the 
red player collects 8 rubium.
Some card and unit abilities override the general rules. 
In case of a conflict, follow the text on that card or the 
text on the reference sheet that explains the ability.
breaking the rules

• Secret Mission: Battle cards are played during the 
Battle phase after winning a battle and fulfilling the 
conditions on the card. The active player may only play 
one Secret Mission: Battle card per battle.
• Secret Mission: Objective cards are played during any 
phase immediately after fulfilling the conditions on the 
card. The active player may play any number of Secret 
Mission: Objective cards during his turn, provided that 
he fulfills the conditions of each card.
card types
This section explains the different card types in Nexus Ops.
Victory point Cards
There are two types of cards that award victory points: Battle 
Victory cards and Secret Mission cards. These cards display a 
number in the upper-left corner, which indicates how many 
victory points the card is worth. All faceup cards in a player’s 
play area count toward his victory point total.
Note: The active player is the only player who may play or 
receive victory point cards.
battle Victory Cards
After winning a battle during the Battle phase, the active 
player draws one Battle Victory card from the deck and 
places it faceup in his play area.
All Battle Victory cards are worth one victory point. 
Secret mission Cards
The active player draws one Secret Mission card during the 
Draw phase. When a player draws a Secret Mission card, he 
keeps it hidden in his hand until he fulfills the conditions on 
the card. Once fulfilled, he may play Secret Mission cards at 
different times during his turn:
It is the Battle phase during the red player’s turn. His units 
are present in several contested hexes. He chooses to first 
resolve a battle in a Rock Plains hex where both he and the 
green player are present.
1. Both players have one Rubium Dragon, so both players 
simultaneously roll for their Dragon’s attack. The red player 
rolls a “1” and misses, but the green player rolls a “2” and 
scores a hit.
2. The red player chooses to remove his Human as a 
casualty and returns it to his supply.
3. There are no Lava Leapers in this hex, so Rock Striders 
attack next. Each player simultaneously rolls his Rock Strider’s 
attack. The red player rolls a “4” and scores a hit, while the 
green player rolls a “5,” which also scores a hit.
4. The red player removes his Rock Strider as a casualty. The 
green player removes his Fungoid as a casualty.
The Fungoid and Human were destroyed before their turn to 
attack, so they do not attack during this battle.
The battle is over in this hex, but the hex is still contested 
and another battle can occur here on a future turn.
Beginning of Battle
End of Battle
battle example
The attacker removes casualties first.
During the Battle phase, players are allowed to 
trigger unit abilities and/or play Energize cards in 
this order: attacker, defender, then other players in 
clockwise order from the defender’s left.
Each time a player either triggers a unit ability or 
plays an Energize card, fully resolve the ability. Then 
all players get an opportunity to trigger a unit ability 
or play an Energize card, following the same order 
outlined above. After all players pass, begin rolling 
attacks in battle order.
order of choosing

winning the Game
The game ends immediately if either of the following 
conditions occur:
• A player acquires 12 or more victory points. That player 
wins the game.
• A player is eliminated from the game. A player is 
eliminated if both of the following conditions are true: 
1.	 None of his units are on the board.
2.	 He does not have enough rubium to purchase 
more units, even after exchanging cards for rubium.
The player with the highest number of victory points 
among the remaining players wins the game. In case 
of a tie, the tied player with the most controlled hexes 
wins. If there is still a tie, the tied player with the most 
units on the board wins. If there is still a tie, the tied 
player with the most rubium tokens wins the game. 
Finally, if there is still a tie, the game ends in a draw.
Optional rules
This section explains several optional rules that players may 
freely use to customize the game to their liking. Although not 
all of the optional rules can be used together, players can 
experience Nexus Ops in many different ways by using several 
optional rules during the same game (e.g., players can use 
the alternate units, intercepted transmissions, and the vortex). 
Before starting the game, players must all agree on which 
optional rules (if any) they wish to use.
Time Is of the Essence
The game ends immediately after a player acquires 10 or more 
victory points. That player wins the game. The game still ends 
if a player is eliminated, as described in “Winning the Game.”
In for the Long Haul
The game ends immediately after a player acquires 14 or more 
victory points. That player wins the game. The game still ends 
if a player is eliminated, as described in “Winning the Game.”
Executive Orders
During the Receive Starting Rubium step of setup, all players 
receive one Secret Mission card. 
King of the Hill
If the active player controls the Monolith hex during the 
Draw phase, he may either draw two Energize cards or take 
one King of the Hill card (the backside of the Battle Victory 
card) and place it faceup in his play area. If he takes a King of 
the Hill card, all other players each draw one Energize card.
King of the Hill cards are worth 1 victory point each. Players 
still gain Battle Victory cards as normal. 
Energize Cards
Energize cards provide a temporary bonus, such as enhancing 
a unit’s abilities or gaining a tactical advantage in combat. 
The defender draws one Energize card after losing a battle. 
If the active player controls the Monolith, he draws two 
Energize cards at the end of his turn. When a player draws 
an Energize card, he keeps it hidden in his hand until he 
chooses to play it.
The active player can only play “Deployment Phase” 
Energize cards during the Deployment phase of his turn. 
To play one, the player reads the card aloud to all players 
and follows the instructions on the card. When finished, he 
places the Energize card faceup in the discard pile.
“Battle Phase” Energize cards can only be played during the 
Battle phase and specifically when the card text indicates 
(e.g., “Play this card before rolling dice”). To play one, the 
player reads the card text aloud to all players and follows the 
instructions on the card.
During a battle, any player may play Energize battle cards 
– even players who are not involved in the battle. Be sure to 
follow the Order of Choosing (see page 7).
Exchanging Cards for rubium
The active player may discard Energize and Secret Mission 
cards from his hand any time during his turn to gain one 
rubium per discarded card. Discarded cards are placed 
faceup next to the appropriate deck.
1. The active player wins a battle in a Liquifungus 
Forest by destroying one enemy Crystalline, and 
one of his Fungoids survives the battle. He takes one 
Battle Victory card from the deck and places it faceup 
in his play area.
2. In his hand he also has “Send in the Fungus 
Creatures,” which he fulfilled during the recent battle. 
He places it faceup in his play area.
3. During the Draw phase, he draws “Dominate 
the Forests.” After winning the recent battle, he 
currently controls the most Liquifungus Forests. 
He immediately places it faceup in his play area.
Fulfill a Secret mission Example

four-player Team rules
To play a four-player team game, set up the game for four 
players as shown in the diagram on page 12. Players separate 
into two teams of two players each. Teammates sit across 
from each other. Instead of playing to 12 individual victory 
points, the first team to reach a combined total of 20 victory 
points wins the game.
At the end of the Draw phase, the active player’s teammate may 
choose one card from his hand and pass that card facedown to 
the active player, who adds it to his hand. The passed card can 
either be an Energize card or a Secret Mission card.
If the active player moves any of his units into a hex 
that contains his teammate’s units, the hex is considered 
contested, but no battle occurs. Neither player collects 
rubium from a refinery in that hex. The active player can 
move units that are capable of moving more than one hex 
through hexes containing his teammate’s units as long as 
none of the opposing team’s units are present.
Teammates may discuss whatever they like, but all talk must 
be public. Also, aside from the card-passing rule explained 
above, a player may show his teammate some cards from his 
hand. If he does so, he must show it to all players.
If one player is eliminated, the game does not end. The 
remaining teammate continues playing and can still win the 
game for the team. The eliminated player’s victory points still 
count toward the team’s total victory points.
If two teammates are both eliminated, the game ends. The 
surviving team wins the game.
Vortex
During the Place Terrain step of setup, flip the Monolith hex 
to reveal the Vortex. Each edge of this hex is labeled with 
one face of a six-sided die. It does not matter how players 
orient this hex during setup, but once placed it must remain 
in that position for the duration of the game.
Each time before the first player takes his turn, he must 
follow these steps to resolve the Vortex’s effect:
1.	 Roll one black die and one white die, and then refer to 
the numbers on the Vortex hex. The Vortex sucks in all 
units occupying the hex that borders the number shown 
on the black die. Then the storm blows these units into 
the hex that borders the number shown on the white 
die. Simply move the units to this new hex.
2.	 Then roll one die and refer to the numbers on the 
Vortex hex. The Vortex projects massive amounts of 
energy toward the hex that borders the number shown 
on the die. All units occupying that hex are destroyed.
3.	 Finally, for each controlled hex adjacent to the Vortex, 
the controlling player draws one Energize card.
Note: Skip these steps during his first turn of the game.
The blue border surrounding the Vortex hex indicates that no 
units can enter that hex. Cards affecting the Monolith do not 
affect the Vortex. During setup, return “Death From Above” 
and “Secure the Monolith” to the game box; they are not used.
Top priority
Instead of drawing only one Secret Mission card during the 
Draw phase, the active player draws two Secret Mission 
cards, chooses one to keep in his hand, and returns the other 
card to the bottom of the Secret Mission deck.
Extra Exploration Tokens
Included with this game are six extra exploration tokens, 
marked with green borders. These tokens are meant to 
increase the variety of rewards that players can find on the 
board. These bonus tokens can be used in the classic or 
variant game and in conjunction with any other optional rules.
During the “Place Exploration Tokens” step of setup, instead 
of returning the exploration tokens with green borders to 
the game box, players are free to exchange these bonus 
exploration tokens with any of the other exploration tokens. 
There can only ever be 18 exploration tokens on the board 
(12 on the Energy Dependence two-player board), so return 
all unused exploration tokens to the game box.
Note: For optimal game balance, it is recommended that 
the entire group of exploration tokens contain refineries that 
generate no fewer than a total of 16 rubium. 
Intercepted Transmissions
After preparing the Secret Mission deck during setup, draw 
two more Secret Mission cards than the number of players in 
the game. (For example: in a two-player game, players draw 
four Secret Mission cards; in a three-player game, players 
draw five Secret Mission cards; in a four-player game, players 
draw six Secret Mission cards.) Reveal these cards by placing 
them faceup near the board where all players can see them. 
This row of cards is called the transmission line.
During the game, players do not draw Secret Mission cards 
into their hand. Instead, the active player may fulfill any 
card(s) in the transmission line. When the active player 
fulfills a card, he places it faceup in his play area. During the 
Draw phase, he replenishes the transmission line back to the 
original total.
The active player still takes one Battle Victory card after 
winning a battle, and he is limited to fulfilling only one Secret 
Mission: Battle card per battle.

bad Neighbors
During setup, players place the terrain according to the 
standard two-player setup. However, during the “Build Bases” 
step, players must place their home base hexes much closer to 
each other than required in the standard two-player setup, as 
indicated in the setup diagram on page 12.
Credits
Game Design: Charlie Catino
Producers: Steven Kimball with Frank Mark Darden
Optional Rules Development: Steven Kimball
Editing & Proofreading: Julian Smith and Mark Pollard
Additional Content: Daniel Lovat Clark
Graphic Design: Chris Beck, Michael Silsby, Peter Wocken, and 
Brian Schomburg
Board Art: Henning Ludvigsen
Figure Design: Christopher Burdett
Cover Art: Mathias Kollros
Interior Art: Nino Aguilar, Dimitri Bielak, Christopher Burdett, 
Mathias Kollros, Daniel McGowan, and Nico Photos
Licensing Manager: Deb Beck
Managing Art Director: Andrew Navaro
Art Direction: Zöe Robinson and Kyle J. Hough
Production Manager: Eric Knight
Production Coordinator: Laura Creighton
Executive Game Designer: Corey Konieczka
Executive Producer: Michael Hurley
Publisher: Christian T. Petersen
Playtesters: Chris Beck, Deb Beck, Carolina Blanken, Sjonnie Brons, 
Pedar Brown, Marieke Franssen, Sean Foster, Andrew Frick, John Van 
Geest, Spencer Greenhalgh, Anita Hilberdink, Matthew Holmes, 
Jessica Kimball, Quinton Kimball, Rob Labij, Lukas Litszinger, Emile 
de Maat, Dallas Mehlhoff, Gerwin Osnabrugge, Mark Pollard, Adam 
Sadler, Brady Sadler, Chris Shibata, Michael Silsby, Arjan Snippe, Erik 
Snippe, Tis Spat, Remco Swenker, Jason Walden, Christian Williams, 
Lynell Williams, Nik Wilson, and Peter Wocken
wizards of the Coast Licensing 
approvals Team
Senior Art Director: John Schindehette
Tabletop Games Manager: Rodney Thompson
Associate Brand Manager: Hilary Ross
Alternate units
To play with alternate units, use the backside of the reference 
sheet labeled “Alternate Units.” Some clarifications to the 
alternate unit abilities are explained here:
• Clones: If players have difficulty remembering the 
purchasing limit, simply place newly purchased Clones 
on the refinery art. Then at the end of the turn, slide all 
Clones off the refinery art.
• Shardian: If a defender destroys his own Shardians and 
he has no other units in the contested hex, he loses the 
battle and the attacker wins the battle.
• Sporling: It is possible for Sporlings to move several times 
and participate in multiple battles during a single turn.
• Boulder Blitzer: If in a Rock Plains, Boulder Blitzers attack 
before all other units (instead of after Magma Divers).
• Magma Diver: When moving from a Magma Pool, 
Magma Divers “dive” down and may surface in any 
other Magma Pool as well as any hex adjacent to a 
Magma Pool.
• Monolith Wyrm: Each time the Monolith Wyrm scores 
a hit during its special attack, the owner must roll 
another die. This process continues until the Monolith 
Wyrm misses.
alternate two-player boards
This section describes how to set up and play with alternate 
two-player boards.
Energy Dependence
During the “Place the Terrain” step of setup, set aside the 
following terrain tiles:
• 3 Double-hex tiles with a Liquifungus Forest
• 1 Double-hex tile with a Crystal Spires
• 1 Single-hex Liquifungus Forest
• 1 Single-hex Crystal Spires
• 2 Single-hex Magma Pools
Return all other terrain tiles to the game box. Then shuffle 
the set aside terrain tiles and build the board according to the 
setup diagram on page 12.
During the “Place Exploration Tokens” step of setup, set 
aside the following 12 exploration tokens into two identical 
piles that contain:
• 2 Rock Strider tokens
• 1 Rubium Refinery (2) tokens
• 2 Rubium Refinery (1) + Crystalline tokens
• 1 Rubium Refinery (1) + Fungoid tokens
Return all remaining exploration tokens to the game box. 
Each player shuffles one pile facedown and then randomly 
places those tokens on his opponent’s side of the map.
All other rules remain unchanged.
© 2012 Hasbro. All Rights Reserved. Nexus Ops is licensed by Wizards of the Coast LLC. Avalon Hill 
and its logos are trademarks of Hasbro, Inc. and Wizard of the Coast and its logos are trademarks 
of Wizards of the Coast LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. Used with permission. Fantasy Flight 
Games, Fantasy Flight Supply, and the FFG logo are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Publishing, Inc. All 
Rights Reserved to their respective owners. Fantasy Flight Games is located at 1975 West County 
Road B2, Suite 1, Roseville, Minnesota, 55113, USA. 651-639-1905. Retain this information for your 
records. Not suitable for children under 36 months due to small parts. Actual components may vary 
from those shown. Made in China.
TM

Game Board Setup
two players
three players
four players
alternate two-
player boards
bad neighbors
energy dependence
1.	 Deployment: Purchase new units and play 
Deployment Energize cards.
2.	 Movement: Move each unit once.
3.	 Exploration: Reveal facedown exploration tokens.
4.	 Battle: Conduct battles and play Battle 
Energize cards.
5.	 Mining: Collect rubium from refineries in each 
controlled hex where at least one of your units 
can operate refineries.
6.	 Draw: Draw one Secret Mission card. If the 
active player controls the Monolith, he also 
draws two Energize cards.
a player's turn