© 2011 GMT Games, LLC • P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308 • www.GMTGames.com
[1.0] INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
[2.0] GAME EQUIPMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
[3.0] SETTING UP THE GAME. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
[4.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
[5.0] THE CARDS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
[6.0] SUPPLY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
[7.0] ORGANIZATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
[8.0] MOVEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
T A B L E O F C O N T E N T S
[9.0] RAIL MOVEMENT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
[10.0] COMBAT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
[11.0] MARKER / UNIT REMOVAL. . . . . . . . . . . . 14
[12.0] HOW TO WIN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
[13.0] GAME TURN EVENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
[14.0] SPECIAL UNITS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
[15.0] OPTIONAL RULES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
[16.0] COMBINED EXAMPLE OF PLAY. . . . . . . . 22
T h e R u s s i a n F r o n t : 1 9 4 1 - 1 9 4 5
R U L E B O O K

[1.0] INTRODUCTION
No Retreat! is a two-player grand strategic level wargame 
depicting the struggle between the Axis powers and the 
Soviet Union during World War 2 from the start of Opera-
tion Barbarossa on June 22, 1941 (the invasion of Russia) 
to the final surrender of Germany in 1945.
Parts Inventory
•	one 22 x 36” mapboard
•	two 8.5” x 11” player aid sheets
•	one sheet of 88, 2-sided square units
•	one sheet of 56, 2-sided round markers
•	one Rule book
•	one Scenario booklet
•	55 Event Cards
•	One 6-sided die
The following abbreviations are used in these rules:
CRT: Combat Results Table
EZOC: Enemy Zone of Control
MP: Movement Point
TEC: Terrain Effects Chart
VP: Victory Point
ZOC: Zone of Control
[2.0] GAME EQUIPMENT
[2.1] Game Map and Scale
The game map represents that portion of European Russia 
where the major campaigns took place. A hexagonal grid 
has been superimposed to regulate movement and the po-
sition of the playing pieces. A unit must always be located 
in a specific hex. Explanations of the terrain features are 
found on the Terrain Effects Chart. 
Each hex is equivalent to 100 kilometers from side to side. 
Each turn represents two months of real time, except the 
first turn (two weeks), and in 1945 (one month).
[2.2] Game Charts & Tables
Various game aids are provided for the players in order 
to simplify and illustrate certain game functions. These 
include the two Combat Results Tables, the Terrain Effects 
Chart, the Game Turn Track, and the Victory Point Track. 
[2.3] Playing Pieces
The playing pieces represent actual military units that 
fought in this campaign. The numbers and symbols on 
them indicate their strength and type.
The “Axis” (a.k.a. “German”) player controls the German 
Army (gray/green) and Axis Allied Rumanian/Hungar-
ian/Italian/Finnish (blue) units. The “Soviet” (a.k.a. “Rus-
sian”) player controls all Soviet (brown/red) units.
Square (High Tide, Weather and Victory Points) and round 
(Blitz!, Shock!, Disorganized, Unsupplied, Game Turn, 
Target, Counterblow, Support and Control) markers have 
also been provided to help players remember certain in-
formation during play. 
The five counters on the next-to-last row of round game 
pieces will be used in an upcoming Solitaire module, to be 
published in a forthcoming issue of C3i Magazine.
Sample Units
Units (as opposed to markers) have information printed on 
them as shown below, representing their capabilities. 
German units have two ‘steps’ each and are full-strength 
on their front side and reduced-strength on their reverse 
side.
Russian units all begin the Campaign game as one-step 
units with their red side being the ‘improved’ version of 
their brown sides. Later, most will upgrade to two-step 
units with their red side as full-strength and brown side 
as reduced-strength.
Unit Type Symbols
	 	 	
Infantry
	 	 	
Regional
	 	 	
Fortified
	 	 	
Shock
	 	 	
Panzergrenadier or
	 	 	
Mechanized Infantry
	 	 	
Panzer or Tank
Combat Strength measures a unit’s value in battle as 
expressed in Strength Points. Some units have outlined 
(white) Combat Strengths, indicating that they usually 
cannot attack (but see 10.1.2).
Movement Allowance determines how far that unit can 
move each turn as measured in Movement Points (MPs).
Front
Back
Combat
Strength
Movement
Allowance
Setup or
Reinforcement
Code
Designation
White =
 Cannot Attack
Parenthesis = 
No Zone of 
Control
X = No Combat
Strength
Optional 
Unit
Infantry
Types
Armor Type

Some units have no Movement Allowance (as a reminder 
that they are immobile) and their Combat Strength is in 
parenthesis as a reminder that they also have no Zone of 
Control (as per Rule 8.5).
Unit Size & Designation
All German and Axis units generally represent Armies of 
80,000 to 120,000 men and their equipment.
Soviet Units generally represent Fronts (Army Groups) of 
about 130,000 to 210,000 men and their equipment. Soviet 
Tank units represent Armies plus an amalgamation of sup-
plies and support equipment from various Fronts.
Unit Designation is the historical name of that formation 
(e.g., Army or Front) and used to identify it.
The Map
The map is divided into hexagons (called “hexes” for 
short), which define a units’ positions just like the squares 
of a chessboard. The map also shows important terrain 
such as cities, marshes, forests, mountains, major rivers 
and so forth.
The Cards
The cards are a resource that can be used for many pur-
poses including generating Random Events, or discarded 
to pay for replacements, rail moves, or launching Coun-
terblows. 
[3.0] SETTING UP THE GAME
Lay out the map between the players. The Axis player sits 
along the west edge and the Soviet player on the east edge. 
Each player takes a Combat Results Table sheet for their 
side (they are also on the map). Then refer to the separate 
Scenario booklet, choose a scenario, and follow its Setup 
and Special Instructions.
[4.0] SEQUENCE OF PLAY
How the Turns Work: Each Game Turn consists primarily 
of an Axis Player Turn followed by a Soviet Player Turn. 
During each player’s turn, several Phases (e.g., movement 
and combat) are conducted in a strict sequence. All actions 
in one Phase must be completed before the next Phase be-
gins. Before both players have conducted their respective 
Player Turns, a mutual Housekeeping Phase is conducted 
to organize things for the next Game Turn.
My Turn; Your Turn: The player who is currently conduct-
ing his Player Turn is called the “Phasing Player.” His op-
ponent is known as the “Non-Phasing Player.”
New Game Turn Housekeeping
A. Advance Game Turn Marker: Advance the Game Turn 
marker on the Turn Track or, if the 28th turn was just com-
pleted (or possibly the 22nd (see 12.4), the game ends and 
the winner is determined.
B. New Game Turn Events Phase: Any Event listed on 
the Turn Track for the new Game Turn (i.e., the box the 
Game Turn marker was just moved into) is noted and, 
if applicable (e.g., a unit removal or VP Event), is also 
applied at this time (see 13.5 for a complete listing and 
explanations).
C. New Game Turn Victory Phase: If a red-lettered Turn 
Event is listed, the Soviets immediately score one Victory 
Point (1 VP). 
Objective Victory is checked every turn and Sudden Death 
Victory is checked on turns denoted by a skull symbol. 
During this Phase of Turn 12, the Initiative shifts (12.9).
Axis Player Turn
1. Card Phase: The Phasing Player must discard down to 
two cards and then draws four more cards.
2. Supply Check Phase: Unsupplied markers are placed 
on both sides’ units that cannot trace a valid Supply Path 
at this time.
3. Organization Phase: The Phasing Player brings on 
Reinforcements, takes Replacements, upgrades his units, 
and returns his Shattered units to the map.
4. Movement Phase: The Phasing Player may move his 
units on the map, including moving them off the map to 
the Rail Movement Box.
5. Combat Phase: All Voluntary, and then all Involuntary, 
Battles are declared and resolved as per the Battle Sequence 
in any order the Phasing Player desires.
6. Marker/Unit Removal Phase: All units still Unsupplied, 
various markers, and Surrendered Axis Allied Army units 
are removed from the map.
7. Detraining Phase: The Phasing Player may put his units 
in the Rail Movement Box back on the map.
Axis Event
Soviet 
Event
Card 
Number
Removed 
in 1945
(5.5)
May only be 
played if the 
VP marker is 
on its “Drang 
Nach Osten!” 
side (5.3.3)

Soviet Player Turn
The Soviet player becomes the “Phasing Player” and re-
peats the above seven Phases, in order, that the Axis player 
just completed.
[5.0] THE CARDS 
Cards are drawn, one by one, during a player’s Card Phase 
from a Draw Pile. After their use, played cards are placed 
face-up in a Discard Pile. The Discard Pile is reshuffled 
when there is only one card left in it (that card is not drawn!) 
or when instructed to by the play of certain Events. You 
cannot examine the Discard Pile unless instructed to do 
so by an Event Card.
Appropriate Timing
Events must be played when their corresponding actions 
are performed according to the Sequence of Play (4.0).
EXAMPLE: You must play a card that gives you a free unit 
upgrade during your own Organization Phase, not during your 
opponent’s Combat Phase.
Card play itself is sequential; that is, cards are resolved in the 
order that they were played unless they conflict, in which 
case the card played last takes precedence.
EXAMPLE: The Axis player wins a crucial battle and plays 
his “General Staff” card to add one additional (+1) hex to the 
Advance After Combat of all his Attacking units. The Soviet 
player then plays his “Rasputitsa” card. Now the Axis Advance 
After Combat is limited to only 1 hex.
Had these cards been played in the opposite order, the Axis would 
be reduced to a 1 hex Advance from the Soviet card, plus + 1 
hex for the Axis card for a total of 2 hexes. Thus, both cards are 
applied in the order played.
If both players play a card at the same time, the player 
whose side has the Initiative (12.9) decides their play order; 
either his card first, or his opponent’s.
Once is Enough: Because cards can be retrieved from the 
Discard Pile and reused, this rule applies: The exact same 
Event cannot occur twice during a single Player Turn.
[5.1] Discard Step
The Card Phase begins by discarding. A player can only 
retain two cards in his hand before drawing, so he must 
discard any excess cards in his hand at this time.
[5.2] Draw Step
After discarding (if required) during the Discard Step, a 
player draws four cards from the Draw Pile and adds them 
to his hand. The following conditions can affect a player’s 
per turn Draw Rate (DR):
–1 Soviet Card each if the Axis controls Moscow OR the 
Caucasus oil field (along the southeast map edge). 
–1 German Card if the Soviets control the Rumanian oil 
field (near Bucharest). 
[5.3] Events
The cards have text above and below a bold line. The text 
above the line with the Gray headline are Events playable 
by the Axis player only, while the Events below the line 
with the red headline are only playable by the Soviet player. 
Thus, the effect of each card is different depending upon 
who has it in his hand. Once played, cards are discarded. 
[5.3.1] Event Effects: Events describe their exact timing 
and use on the cards themselves. When not specified, that 
Event may be performed at any time. 
[5.3.2] Event Precedence: When there is a conflict between 
Event text and the Rules, the Event text takes prece-
dence.
[5.3.3] Initiative Events: Events with a German cross 
(Balkenkreuz) symbol can only be played if the VP marker 
is on its “Drang Nach Osten!” side (German initiative).
Events with a Soviet Star symbol can only be played 
while the VP marker is on its “Na Berlin!” side (Soviet 
Initiative).
All other Events (i.e., those without either of these symbols) 
may be played throughout the entire game.
[5.4] Other Card Uses
Besides their use in triggering Events, cards may be spent 
(discarded) to pay for Replacements, additional Rail Moves, 
recovery from Disorganization, and to launch Counter-
blows during the Enemy Player’s Combat Phase.
[5.5] 1945 Cards
Some cards have a Red-barred “45” number in the upper 
left corner: these will be removed from the deck in 1945, 
and replaced by the Green-circled “45” cards. The Green-
circled “45” cards are not put in the deck before Turn 23, 
Jan 1945. Add those cards to the deck during the Na Berlin! 
(On to Berlin!) Setup Procedure:
On to Berlin! Setup Procedure
During the Housekeeping Phase at the start of Turn 23 
(January, 1945), perform all of the following in order:
1. Out With the Old: Each player sorts through the cards 
in his hand and the respective Draw and Discard Piles and 
removes from play all of the Red-barred “45” cards. Set them 
aside, they are no longer in play.
2. In With the New: Shuffle together the now purged Draw 
Pile, Discard Pile and the Green-circled “45” cards to form 
a new Draw Pile. 
3. As You Were: Play then continues. The Axis player will 
conduct a normal Card Phase at the start of his turn.

[6.0] SUPPLY
During this Phase, both players check the supply status of 
each of their on-map units. The Phasing Player’s units are 
checked first followed by the Non-phasing Player’s units. 
The timing can be important as unsupplied units lose their ZOCs 
immediately when marked; see 6.4.
[6.1] Overland Supply Path
A unit is in supply if it is able to trace a valid Supply Path 
to a friendly supplied City hex or to a friendly map edge. 
A Supply Path is traced from the unit requiring supply no 
more than four hexes in length (i.e., no more than three 
intervening hexes) to the Supply Source.
Cities and Supply: A City hex is “friendly” if a friendly 
unit was the last to enter or pass through it, or it began 
that scenario as a friendly supplied City hex. A City hex is 
supplied if it is able to trace a valid Supply Path of unlimited 
length from itself to a friendly map edge. A “friendly map 
edge” is the west (dark gray) edge for the Axis, and the 
east and south (red) edges for Russians. The path from a 
city must be in a Westerly direction only for the Axis (West, 
Southwest and Northwest), and an Easterly direction only 
for the Soviets (East, Southeast and Northeast).
DESIGN NOTE: The exclusive directions simulate each side’s 
“Rail Net” capabilities.
Direct Supply: A unit can also trace a Supply Path of no 
more than four hexes directly from itself to a friendly 
map edge.
[6.2] Alternate Supply Sources
There are three types of Alternate Supply Sources: Seas, 
adjacent friendly units that have an Overland Supply 
Path, and Minor Countries. Units that use an Alternate 
Supply Source are in supply, but these do not constitute 
an Overland Supply Path. 
Seas as a Supply Source
A unit on a coastal hex can use the sea as a Supply Source. 
Units cannot trace to a sea—they must be on the coastal 
hex. The following restrictions apply:
Caspian Sea: Russian units only.
Baltic Sea: Russian units may only use the Baltic Sea if 
Leningrad is Russian controlled and Supplied. Axis units 
may always use the Baltic Sea.
Black Sea: Useable by both sides. Note that the Sea of Azov 
is not a Supply Source for either side.
Adjacent Units that have an Overland Supply Path
An adjacent friendly unit that can, itself, trace an Overland 
Supply Path (6.1), can serve as a Supply Source. 
Minor Country Supply Source
The Finnish unit is always in supply in Finland and the 
Yugoslav units are in supply in the two Balkans areas.
[6.3] Blocking Supply Paths
A Supply Path is always blocked by enemy units.
Enemy Zones of Control (see 8.5) also block Supply Paths 
unless there is a friendly unit in that hex. That is, friendly 
units negate Enemy Zones of Control for the purposes of 
tracing a Supply Path.
Note that Prohibited terrain (Lake hexes and hexsides) 
does not block Supply Paths.
EXAMPLE OF SUPPLY: The German 16th Army can trace a 
valid Overland Supply Path four hexes back to Riga, an Axis-
friendly city (6.1); this Supply Path must be traced across a 
Prohibited hexside at Lake Peipus, which is permitted (6.3). 
The (one-step) German 18th Army can trace its Supply Path to 
the 16th Army (an adjacent supplied unit is an Alternate Supply 
Source if it can trace an Overland Supply Path, as per 6.2).
With Smolensk cut off from the Axis, the German 4th Panzer 
Army cannot trace a valid Supply Path (as shown by the yel-
low arrows) and so is tagged with an Unsupplied marker. It 
can’t trace through the 18th Army in a ‘chain’ back to the 16th 
Army, as the 18th Army does not, itself, have an Overland 
Supply Path.
The Soviet Kalinin Front can trace an Overland Supply Path 
directly to the eastern map edge (denoted by the red border). 
Note that the Axis Finnish Army projects no Zone of Control 
to hinder that Supply Path as it is a Fortress unit.
Leningrad can also trace an Overland Supply Path: its first 
hex would be through Lake Ladoga (again, a Supply Path can 
be traced across and through Prohibited hexes, including this 
large Lake hex), and its second hex through the one occupied 
by the Kalinin Front (since friendly units negateEZOCs for the 
purposes of tracing a Supply Path; 6.3), and from there along the 
same route as the Kalinin Front traced its Supply Path.

[6.4] Unsupplied Markers
When a unit is found to be Unsupplied during 
the Supply Phase, place an Unsupplied marker 
on it to denote its precarious status.
[6.5] Unsupplied Effects
A unit with an Unsupplied marker is thus affected:
[6.5.1] Organization: See 7.0.A: Ineligible for The Flip 
Step. 
[6.5.2] Movement: Its Movement Allowance is reduced to 
a maximum of 3 MPs.
[6.5.3] No Zone of Control: It loses its Zone of Control for 
all purposes.
[6.5.4] Combat: It never receives an Armor Bonus when 
attacking (10.6.3), cannot conduct a Multi-Hex Advance 
(10.8.1), awards units attacking its hex two shifts to the right 
on the CRT and, if eliminated is placed in the Surrendered 
Units Box (10.7.1).
DESIGN NOTE: There is no penalty for attacking “Out of 
Supply”—only for defending. Because of the structure of the 
Sequence of Play you get one turn to get out of the pocket your 
opponent created!
[6.5.5] Events: Certain Events apply only to Supplied forces. 
This means the unit or, if more than one unit is involved, at 
least one unit on the receiving side, must be in supply.
[6.5.6] Removal: Units that remain Unsupplied are elimi-
nated during the Removal Phase (as per 11.1).
[7.0] ORGANIZATION
In this Phase, the following Steps must be performed in 
order:
A. Flip Step: Educate and Improve units
B. Placement Step: Reinforce, Replace and Recover units
C. Reorganization Step: Pay to remove Disorganization 
markers
A. The Flip Step
Important: Only units that can trace an Overland Supply 
Path (6.1) may be Improved (7.1) or Upgraded (7.2).
[7.1] Improving Reduced-Strength Units to 
Full-Strength
Only two-step units currently on the map on their reduced 
side can be Improved (flipped over) to their full-strength 
side. The following cost is incurred for each unit:
•	The Axis player must discard two cards for each Im-
provement (exception: SS units, see 14.5 & 14.6).
	 DESIGN NOTE: It is ‘cheaper’ to Replace (7.9) an eliminated 
German Army than to Improve one.
•	The Soviet player must discard only one card for each 
Improvement. (Exception: Shock units, see 14.7).
	 Important: this rule applies to non-Fortress units only 
on or after Turn 17 (see 7.3); prior to that, all other Soviet 
units have only one step.
[7.2] Free Soviet Upgrades “Education” 
Starting on Turn 6, the Soviet player can 
Upgrade one unit for free (i.e., no card cost) 
per Soviet Organization Phase. An upgraded 
Soviet unit is flipped to its stronger, red-col-
ored side.
[7.2.1] Free Soviet Unit “Experience:” Starting on Turn 13, 
the Soviet player can Upgrade two units for free per Soviet 
Organization Phase.
[7.2.2] Upgraded, but Brittle: Even after Upgrading, those 
stronger (red) Russian units still have only one step until 
Turn 17 (see 7.3, below).
Thus, as Upgraded one-step units, when they are eliminat-
ed, they are placed in the Destroyed or Unsupplied boxes 
on their red (one-step) side and will return, when replaced, 
on that same side. However, they are considered two-step 
counters for removal to the Surrendered Holding Box (see 
rules 10.7.1 and 11.1).
[7.3] Strong and Robust: 
Starting on Turn 17, Soviet units cease to be “brittle” 
(one-step units as per 7.2.2) and become “robust” (two-
step) units with a (red) full-strength side and a (brown) 
reduced-strength side.
[7.3.1] No more Upgrades: Starting on Turn 18, Soviet units 
cease to have free upgrades.
This simulates the Late War Soviet Manpower problems.
DESIGN NOTE: Thus, on Turn 17, Russians begin to function 
much like Axis multi-step units. As per Rule 7.9.2, however, 
this means a brittle (red) one-step red unit that is eliminated on 
Turn 16 would be replaced on its one-step brown side on Turn 
17. Raising it back to full-strength can be done on the following 
turn’s Flip Step.
[7.4] One-Step Units
Most Axis Allied armies and all Cadre units 
have only one step (see 14.2 and 14.9).
[7.5] Fortress Conversion
It is also during his friendly Flip Step that the Soviet player 
may convert (flip) his two-step Fortified infantry units 
into mobile one-step Regional infantry units regardless of 
their supply status, at a cost of one card discard. There is 
no reward or penalty for this reversion.

B. The Placement Step
[7.6] Unit Placement
Reinforcement, Replacement, and Recovering units are 
brought onto the map and placed at no MP cost. No units 
can be placed in Enemy Zones of Control (8.5), except for 
Soviet units placed in Cities, as follows:
•	Axis units are placed in Cities in Greater Germany, not in 
EZOCs, and can trace an Overland Supply Path (6.1). 
	 In addition, Recovering (shattered) Axis units may also 
be placed in any Axis controlled City in the USSR not in 
EZOCs, which can trace a Supply Path, or on any west 
map edge hex in Greater Germany not in an Enemy Zone 
of Control. 
•	Soviet units are placed in any Soviet controlled City 
that can trace a Supply Path (see 6.1) even in EZOCs, or 
on any east or south map edge hex in Russia not in an 
Enemy Zone of Control.
•	In addition, Recovering (shattered) Soviet units may 
also be placed in any Soviet controlled City inside 
Greater Germany that can trace a Supply Path, and not 
in EZOCs.
[7.7] Recovery of Shattered Units
All friendly units in the Shattered Units Box 
are returned to the map for free. Place Disor-
ganized markers on them to denote that they 
cannot attack (as per 10.1.1).
Note that a Recovering unit returns to the map on the same 
strength-side that it was removed on. Thus, a full-strength 
two-step unit Recovers as a two-step unit.
[7.8] Receiving Reinforcements
Players receive units as Reinforcements on their indicated 
Game Turn (i.e., their Reinforcement Number). Place Re-
inforcements as per 7.6, above.
[7.9] Replacement of Destroyed and 
Surrendered Units
To take a unit from the Destroyed Unit Box and return it to 
the map (as per 7.6), the owning player must pay (discard) 
one card from his hand for each Replacement so taken. 
Exception: Soviet Shock Armies who cost two cards.
From the Surrendered Units Box, the owning player must 
discard two cards from his hand for each Replacement .
When placing a unit on the map from either of these boxes, 
place a Disorganized marker on the unit to denote that it 
cannot voluntarily attack in that player’s ensuing Combat 
Phase.
DESIGN NOTE: Unsupplied unit losses usually cost more to 
replace and also count as VPs for the other player (12.7).
[7.9.1] Axis Replacement Restriction: Except for the play 
of certain Event cards, the Axis player cannot replace 
destroyed or surrendered units prior to Turn 5 (as per the 
Turn Track). 
DESIGN NOTE: Prepared only for a quick Blitzkrieg victory in 
Russia, the Axis had to retool their efforts for a longer fight.
[7.9.2] Reduced-Strength: Two-step units always return 
to the map on their reduced-strength side when brought 
back as Replacements.
C. The Reorganization Step
[7.10] Reorganization
Disorganized markers will be removed from newly placed 
units for free later in the turn during the Marker Removal 
Phase (11.2). If the player wishes to make Disorganized 
units combat-ready immediately, he discards one card at 
this time for each Disorganized marker so removed.
[8.0] MOVEMENT
Procedure
A player may move none, some or all of his non-fort (i.e., 
“mobile”) units through any combination of hexes up to 
the limit of their printed Movement Allowance, paying the 
appropriate Movement Point (MP) cost to enter each hex. 
Units move one at a time, hex by hex, in any direction or 
combination of directions that the player desires. A unit 
may continue moving until it has either expended all of 
its MPs, moves in an enemy ZOC, or the player simply 
desires to stop moving it.
A player may not move any of the opposing player’s units. 
No enemy movement is allowed during your turn except 
as a result of combat or through the play of certain Event 
cards.
[8.1] A Unit’s Movement Allowance
A unit cannot exceed its Movement Allowance during its 
Movement Phase except as permitted by an Event card. 
Units may not transfer MPs between units or carry them 
over between Game Turns.
[8.2] Weather Effects on Movement
On Mud Game Turns (see the Turn Track) all units with a 
Movement Allowance greater than 3 have their Movement 
Allowance reduced to 3.
On Snow Game Turns, all units with a Movement Al-
lowance greater than 4 have their Movement Allowance 
reduced to 4.
[8.3] Terrain Effects on Movement
The basic cost to enter a Clear hex is 1 MP. The cost to enter 
other hexes can be higher, as listed on the Terrain Effects 
Chart (TEC). Unlike in many other wargames, it costs no 
extra MPs to cross river hexsides.

When a unit does not have sufficient MPs left to pay the cost 
to enter a given hex, it cannot do so. Exception: A unit that 
has a Movement Allowance greater than zero can always 
move one hex regardless of terrain or other costs. Rules 
regarding Enemy Zones of Control (8.5.3) and Prohibited 
hexes and hexsides still apply.
[8.4] Stacking Effects on Movement
Friendly units can never enter hexes containing enemy 
units. Within the confines of other movement rules (e.g., 
terrain costs, ZOCs), friendly units may freely enter and 
pass through hexes containing other friendly units. When 
more than one friendly unit remains in a hex at the end of 
any Phase, Step or Battle, it is called “stacking.”
[8.4.1] Stacking Limits: The Axis may stack up to two 
units per hex; the Soviets can have only one unit per hex 
until 1945.
[8.4.2] Units Only: Only units count for stacking, not in-
formational markers.
[8.4.3] Overstacking Penalty: At the end of any Phase or 
Battle, the owning player must put any excess units of his 
choice from that hex into the Shattered Units Box until it 
conforms to the stacking limit (8.4.1), Unsupplied units are 
put in the Destroyed Units Box.
[8.5] Zones of Control (ZOCs)
The six hexes on the map ad-
jacent to a unit are called that 
unit’s Zone of Control (abbre-
viated “ZOC”). Markers, Un-
supplied units and units with 
parenthesized strengths never 
possess a ZOC. 
DESIGN NOTE: This Zone of 
Control represents that area outside 
the hex a unit physically occupies 
that it can control by virtue of its size, mobility, and projection 
of firepower.
The ZOCs of friendly units in no way hinder other friendly 
units, but they do restrict enemy units. A hex adjacent to 
an enemy unit is called an “enemy controlled hex” or a hex 
in an “Enemy Zone of Control” (or “EZOC”).
ZOCs do not extend across Sea/Lake hexsides.
[8.5.1] Stops Movement: A unit must cease its movement 
for that turn the moment it enters an EZOC, regardless of 
how many MPs it might have remaining.
[8.5.2] Exit an EZOC: If a unit begins the Movement Phase 
of its turn adjacent to an enemy unit (i.e., in an EZOC), it 
may exit that hex at a cost of one additional Movement 
Point (+1 MP) and continue moving.
[8.5.3] No Infiltration: Units cannot move directly from 
one hex in an EZOC to another, unless the hex being entered 
EXAMPLE OF MOVEMENT: It is the Axis Movement Phase 
of Turn 4 (a Snow Game Turn reducing the MA of all units to 
4). During the preceding Supply Check Phase, it was discovered 
that all of the units shown were in supply.
Despite the bad weather, the Axis player decides to conduct an 
attack against the Kalinin Front unit and try to eliminate it while 
it is surrounded (by Axis units and ZOCs). 
Counting his units’ Combat Strengths, the Axis player deter-
mines that if he can reposition the 16th, 9th, and 4th Panzer 
Armies, he’ll be able to muster a potential 15 to 4 (3:1) attack.
A) First he moves the 9th Army through the Forest hexes. The 
movement arrows and circled numbers indicate how many MPs 
were spent to move that far. Remember, it costs +1 MP to leave 
an EZOC (8.5.2).
B) This allows the 4th Panzer Army to move into that same hex 
because now there is a friendly unit in it; so the 4th Panzer Army 
deftly moves directly from one EZOC to another (8.5.3). It must 
stop immediately upon entering that hex (because it entered an 
EZOC), and expends 3 MPs to get there (1 to leave the EZOC 
plus 2 to enter the adjacent Forest hex). Notice that moving his 
units in the proper sequence was important!
C) The Axis player moves the 16th Army next and has a couple 
of options. It could move forward onto the one-step 18th Army 
for one Movement Point (the Fort has no ZOC remember), but 
there its position could become tenuous, because there’s always 
the danger that the Soviet player could flip the Fortified unit to 
its Regional side—this would suddenly give it a Zone of Control 
and would thus enable it to cut off supply to that hex. So the Axis 
player takes the path through the Marsh (for 2 MPs) and into 
the Forest instead. The one-step Axis 18th Army is just going 
to have to fend for itself. Notice how most of the Axis movement 
is made around EZOC hexes and not through them. 

is also occupied by a friendly unit (where it must still stop as 
per 8.5.1). Otherwise, a unit must first leave an EZOC by 
way of an uncontrolled hex and then continue moving.
[8.5.4] Negating EZOCs: In addition to allowing some lim-
ited infiltration movement (8.5.3), the presence of a friendly 
unit negates an enemy-controlled hex for the purposes of 
tracing a Supply Path (6.3) or when Retreating (10.7.5).
[8.6] Finland
German, Finnish and Soviet units can enter Finland. There 
are no hexes in Finland, so consider the entire country 
as one huge hex that’s adjacent to many hexes in Russia. 
Normal stacking rules apply inside Finland, and normal 
Zone of Control rules apply to and from. Thus, Russian 
units in the four hexes adjacent to Finland can all join 
together to attack it.
See the movement examples in the Reference Booklet illustrating 
much of Rule 8.
[8.7] Yugoslavia
Only German and Yugoslavian units can enter the Western 
or Southern Balkans, but no earlier than the Game Turn after 
the Soviets capture the Romanian Oil Fields hex (13.5).
There are no hexes in these areas, so consider each of the 
Balkans areas as one huge “Open” hex that is adjacent to 
many hexes in Greater Germany (akin to Finland, as per 
8.6). Normal stacking rules apply inside each of these areas, 
and normal Zone of Control rules apply. 
[9.0] RAIL MOVEMENT
During his regular Movement Phase, the player can 
“Entrain” his mobile (i.e., non-fort) units and place them 
in the Rail Movement Box. He can “Detrain” them (i.e., 
relocate back to the map) during a friendly Rail Move-
ment Phase.
[9.1] Entraining
One friendly supplied unit per Movement Phase may be 
simply picked up for free and placed in the Rail Move-
ment Box (“Entrained”) in lieu of any other movement 
that turn (if in a surrounded port consider this a “Sea 
Evacuation”).
[9.1.1] Additional Rail Movement: A player can also En-
train additional friendly supplied units during his Move-
ment Phase at a cost of discarding one card for each.
[9.1.2] Rail Capacity: Each player can have a maximum of 
three units in the Rail Movement Box.
[9.1.3] Rail Disruption: During Turns 1 and 2, The Axis 
cannot do any Rail Moves, and no additional Rail Move-
ment capacity may be purchased by the Soviets. 
DESIGN NOTE: For the Axis, this reflects the trouble they had 
in converting Russian rail lines to European standard gauge 
and advancing over Russia’s poor roads. For the Soviets, this 
represents the huge amount of transport capacity siphoned off 
evacuating workers and factories to Siberia, in addition to the 
initial chaos caused by the enemy’s invasion.
[9.2] Detraining
During the player’s Detraining Phase (at the end of his 
turn), he may bring none, any or all of his units in the 
Rail Movement Box back onto the map. (Units in the Rail 
Movement Box can remain there indefinitely.)
When “Detrained,” each unit is placed in either:
•	a friendly City hex that can trace a Overland Supply Path 
(even in an Enemy ZOC), or
•	any hex that is not in an EZOC and can trace an Overland 
Supply Path of three hexes maximum (i.e., no more than 
two intervening hexes) to a friendly Supplied City or 
friendly map edge. You may not trace to a City hex that 
was just captured this player-turn or use an Alternate 
Supply Source.
[10.0] COMBAT
During a friendly Combat Phase, each unit may participate 
in an attack against an adjacent hex that is occupied by 
enemy forces. When a player initiates an attack between 
adjacent units, it results in a battle (i.e., completing all of the 
Steps in the Battle Procedure). Throw the die, and consult 
the appropriate player’s CRT to resolve battles.
The player who is initiating an attack is called the “at-
tacker” and his opponent is called the “defender” in that 
battle (regardless of the overall situation).
Combat Phase Preparation
A Combat Phase begins with the Phasing, and then the 
Non-phasing Player declaring all of the hexes that will be 
attacked, followed by each battle’s resolution.
[10.1] Declaring All Battles
Before any battles are resolved, both players, as described 
below, must declare all targeted hexes. 
A “Target Hex” is one that contains forces of 
the Non-Phasing Player that is adjacent to one 
or more hexes containing forces of the Phasing 
Player across non-Prohibited hexsides. The at-
tacking player will put a “Target” marker in each “Target 
Hex”. You cannot put a Target marker on a hex that already 
contains a Counterblow marker. 
Each player has only five Target/Counterblow markers, 
white/black for the Soviets and gray/black for the Axis: 
this is a game maximum. Thus a player cannot do more 
than five Attacks or Counterblows per Player-Turn (or less 
if the Turn’s weather is Long Winter [13.1]). 

[10.1.1] Voluntary Attacks Step: The Phasing Player de-
clares first, noting for his opponent all the Target Hexes 
that he will voluntarily attack that Phase. The following 
units cannot participate in voluntary attacks:
•	units with a Disorganized marker 
•	units with a white Combat Strength (e.g., Fortified in-
fantry or Cadre unit; 15.3).
[10.1.2] Counterblows Step: After 
the Phasing Player has declared all 
his voluntary attacks, the Non-Phas-
ing Player may declare additional 
target hexes that must be attacked by the Phasing Player 
that Combat Phase (these are “involuntary attacks” and 
are called Counterblows). 
•	The Non-Phasing Player must discard one card from his 
hand for each target hex he so designates. 
•	You cannot put a counterblow marker on a hex containing 
only white-strength units.
•	The Non-Phasing Player’s white Combat Strength units 
cannot participate in a Counterblow, but will suffer all 
the Retreat results. 
•	Designate Counterblow target hexes with a Counterblow 
marker.
•	Hexes containing a Target marker may not be selected 
for a Counterblow.
•	Any of the Phasing Player’s adjacent units can respond to 
a Counterblow, including Disorganized units and those 
with white Combat Strengths. 
•	Units in Counterblow target hexes receive no beneficial 
terrain combat modifiers (i.e., combat shifts) when attacked 
by the Phasing Player; but Weather combat shifts do ap-
ply. 
DESIGN NOTE: Why pay to have your units attacked and forego 
terrain advantages? Opportunity or desperation—you may have 
unsupplied units trying to break out, want to draw off units from 
a nearby attack, or seek to punish a weak unit that ventured too 
close (in hopes of seeing a CA combat result).
[10.2] Order of Combat
All declared battles are resolved in any order the Phasing 
Player desires. Each battle must be completely resolved 
before the next battle begins. 
Battle Preparation
[10.3] Combat Conditions
Which units are eligible for combat.
[10.3.1] Attacker’s Prerogative: The Phasing Player decides 
which attacking units will attack which Target Hexes, in 
any combination he desires, as long as all declared Target 
Hexes are attacked.
[10.3.2] Combining Units in a Battle: Attacking units in 
two or more hexes may combine their Combat Strengths 
and conduct a single battle together. Battles may involve 
any number of attacking units and Target Hexes.
[10.3.3] Adjacency: For an attack to be resolved as a single 
battle, all of the attacking units must be adjacent to all of 
the Target Hexes.
[10.3.4] One Battle Per Unit: No unit may attack more than 
once per friendly Combat Phase, and no Target Hex can be 
the object of more than one battle per Combat Phase (not 
including counter-attack results; see 10.7.2)
[10.3.5] Multi-Unit Attacks: Attacking units in a single 
hex may attack one or more Target Hexes in a single battle. 
Note that if one or more such units attack, this does not 
obligate any of the other Phasing Player’s units stacked 
with or adjacent to it to participate.
[10.4] Combat Strength Unity
A given unit’s Combat Strength is unitary; it may not be 
divided among different battles during a single Phase.
Units that are stacked together need not participate in the 
same battle when one attacks (or Counterattacks; 10.7.2), 
but all units in a Target Hex must defend together.
[10.5] Steps in a Battle
Battles are conducted via the Battle Procedure. These steps 
must be completed for each attack in the exact order listed 
below:
Battle Procedure
1. Strength Step: Total the Combat Strengths of (respec-
tively) the attacking units and the defending units.
2. Commitment Step: First, the 
attacker (only) may announce his 
commitment of one Combat Sup-
port (i.e., Blitz! or Shock!) marker to 
the battle (if he has one available). 
Then the attacker, followed by the defender, may each play 
one Event card that is used during a battle, before the die 
is rolled. Note that the defender makes his decision after 
the attacker, with full knowledge of the attacker’s com-
mitment decisions.
3. Initial Odds Column Step: Divide the attacker’s strength 
by the defender’s strength and express this as an odds ratio 

(attacker to defender). Round this odds ratio off downward 
to conform to one of the odds ratio columns found on the 
CRT. This will be the “Initial Odds Column.”
EXAMPLE: 12 Strength Points attack 9; the ratio is 1.33 to 1, 
which rounds down to a simple 1:1. If the attacker could have 
mustered 14 vs. 9, the odds ratio would have been 3:2. This 
simple odds ratio determines the Initial Odds Column used on 
the attacker’s CRT.
4. Final Odds Column Step: “Shift” the Initial Odds Col-
umn (determined above) for the effects of terrain, weather, 
Support markers, armor, or Event card(s) for that battle 
to determine the Final Odds Column used. All effects are 
cumulative and only the net shift is applied. 
EXAMPLE: A 2-1 with three shifts right and one shift left 
would be a 4-1.
5. Attacker Rolls Step: The attacking player rolls a 6-sided 
die and cross-indexes its result with the Final Odds Column 
to obtain the Combat Result.
6. Apply Result Step. With the Combat Result known, it 
is now applied. This might result in repeating the above 
steps due to a Counterattack, a unit step loss or removal 
by either side, or a Retreat followed by an Advance After 
Combat.
[10.6] Combat Odds Shifts
When adjusting to find the Final Odds Column (per Step 
4, above), the following cases apply:
[10.6.1] Terrain Effects: The shifts caused due to terrain 
effects are based upon the defender’s hex or if all units 
attack across the hexsides listed on the TEC.
[10.6.2] Support Markers: When available to a player, a 
maximum of one Axis Blitz! or Russian Shock! marker may 
be committed to a battle when that player is the attacker 
(even in a counterattack situation). It provides one shift 
to the right.
•	Support markers cannot be used to assist an attack made 
exclusively by Unsupplied units.
•	Support markers do not remain on the map. They are 
returned to the Unused Markers Holding Box after their 
use.
•	Support markers cannot be carried over from one Game 
Turn to another. If not used on the turn they’re received, 
they are lost.
[10.6.3] Armor Bonus: When an attacking force includes 
an armor type unit and it is attacking infantry-type 
units (except mechanized infantry) in a Clear hex 
during a non-Mud Game Turn, the attacker receives one 
shift to the right.
•	Armor attacks against other armor or mechanized infan-
try-type units do not receive this bonus. 
•	This bonus can only be applied once per battle regardless 
of how many armor type units participate in it.
•	This bonus only applies when an armor-type unit is the 
attacker in a battle, never when it is the defender (but it 
does apply when an armor-type unit is in a counterattack 
situation).
•	This bonus applies during Clear and Snow Game Turns 
only.
[10.6.4] Odds Limits: Whenever an initial (before shifting) 
or final (after shifting) odds ratio exceeds 6:1, it is treated as 
6:1. When the ratio is less than 1:3, an Initial Odds Column 
is not established and becomes an automatic CA result, as 
do final odds ratios of less than 1:3.
EXAMPLE: 24 Russian Strength Points attack an Axis Allied 
unit worth only 2 Strength Points that is in a City hex. The 
initial ratio would be 24:2, or 12:1, which becomes a 6:1 (the 
maximum column before shifting). That is shifted one to the left 
for the defender’s terrain and the attack would be resolved on 
the 5:1 column.
EXAMPLE OF COMBAT: The German 6th Army in Stalingrad 
is being attacked by the Russian 3rd Tank Army and 2nd Ukraine 
Front during a Snow Game Turn. The Russians commit a Shock! 
marker to the battle, and neither player commits any cards.
The Initial Ratio is 12:3, which reduces down to exactly the 4:1 
odds column on the Soviet CRT. During the Final Odds Step 
(#4), shifts occur as follows:
The attacker committed a Combat Support marker to the battle 
(1R). The defender’s force is located in a City hex (1L) and across 
Objective hexsides (1L).
Note, because all of the attacking units are also attacking across 
River hexsides, this would normally cause another (third) shift 
to the left. But as it is a Snow Game Turn, for combat purposes 
the rivers essentially ‘disappear,’ and so do not provide a combat 
shift.
The net effect will see this 4:1 odds battle shifted one column to 
the left, thus being rolled as a 3:1.

[10.7] Explanation of Combat Results
Combat results are listed under each player’s respective 
Combat Results Table on the Player Aid Sheets. Applying 
those results is explained in more detail below:
BATTLE RESULTS:
- = Indecisive Battle: No Effect
CA = Counterattack: The defender may launch an im-
mediate counterattack. Re-compute the odds; no terrain 
modifiers (10.7.2).
CB = Counterblow: The Phasing Player places a Coun-
terblow marker on one of his own units hex currently 
attacking. These markers are not removed during that 
side’s Marker/Unit Removal Phase, but are instead 
resolved as usual during other side’s Combat Phase in 
the next Player Turn (10.7.3).
DR = Defender Retreat: Defender retreats his units 2 
hexes. Attacking units can Advance After Combat if 
the defending units retreated or the hex is completely 
vacated by square units after a step loss. There is No 
Effect if the Target Hex has a Fort unit in it (10.7.4). 
DS = Defender Shattered: Defender retreats his units 
two hexes and, if not destroyed, place them in Shattered 
Units Box. Attacking units can Advance After Combat 
if the defending units retreated or the hex is completely 
vacated by square units after a step losses. (Treat this 
result as an EX if the Target Hex has a Fort unit in it).
DD = Defender Destroyed: Defender retreats his units 
two hexes and each defending unit loses one step. If the 
Target Hex has a Fort unit in it, the defending units do 
not retreat. Attacking units may Advance After Combat 
if the defending units retreated or the hex is completely 
vacated by square units after step losses.
EX = Exchange: Both sides lose one step. Neither side 
Retreats or Advances. 
Player Turns could begin with some Counterblow markers 
already in place, meaning that either: 
A) Those enemy units must be attacked if friendly units 
remain adjacent to them during the Combat Phase; or
B) Those adjacent friendly units will have to move away 
during their Movement Phase to avoid those Battles: 
The Counterblow then has no effect. This can be a big 
decision!
[10.7.1] Step Losses: Certain results cause a step loss to be 
suffered by the defender (DD) or both sides (EX). When 
these occur, a full-strength two-step unit is reduced (flipped 
over) to its reduced-strength side, or a unit with only one 
step is eliminated (but see rule 14.9 Cadre units). When 
there is a choice, the owning player determines which of 
his units in that battle suffers a step loss.
Most Eliminated units are placed in the Destroyed Units 
Box or, if the unit had an Unsupplied marker on it at the 
time of its elimination, it is placed in the Surrendered Units 
Box instead. Some one-step units are placed on the Turn 
Track when eliminated (for example, most Axis Allies and 
all Cadres [14.0]). 
[10.7.2] Counterattacks: A CA result means that the de-
fender may treat the battle outcome as “No Effect” and 
end it there OR conduct a Counterattack.
If the defender counterattacks, remove any Support marker 
and discard played cards for that battle and go back to 
Step 1 in the Battle Procedure; i.e., start a brand new battle 
repeating all of the Steps. This new battle must include the 
exact same units as in the initial battle, only this time, the 
counterattacking player becomes the attacker (the other 
player is the defender) and no terrain shift modifiers are used 
(although other terrain effects that negate armor shifts and 
multi-hex advance still apply).
•	Unengaged Units: It could happen in such battles that 
only some units in a hex are being (counter)attacked, 
but not others. That is allowed, however only the 
participating units are affected by all combat results; the 
“unengaged” units will suffer only the Retreat results.
•	A Counterattack can lead to another counterattack, and 
so on until some other outcome takes place. They, too, 
are conducted as per this rule.
[10.7.3] Counterblows (Involuntary Counterattacks): A 
Non-Phasing Player’s Counterblow (10.1.2) requires a 
Phasing Player’s involuntary attack in response and is 
similar to a regular Counterattack in that the defender (i.e., 
the Non-Phasing Player) receives no terrain shift modifiers, 
but:
•	The Phasing Player is the attacker and the Target Hex is 
the one denoted by a Counterblow marker (see 10.1.2).
•	Disorganized and white Combat Strength units can par-
ticipate in these Counterblows, but can never Advance 
After Combat (10.8) if victorious.
•	Remember that a Counterblow called for by the CRT (the 
CB result) will be resolved during the next Player-Turn: 
you flip the “Target” marker to its Counterblow side, and 
place it on one of the Phasing Player’s attacking hexes, 
owner’s choice; even if during a Counterattack (CA). 
DESIGN NOTE: Counterblows placed by card discards are 
“Diversions” made by the defender, forcing the Phasing Player 
to attack. While those placed by a “CB” result on the Combat 
Table (thus resolved next turn) are partial advances made by the 
attacker, that will force the other player to either retreat, or deal 
with the threat by attacking it.
[10.7.4] Fort Units: When the Target Hex contains a Forti-
fied infantry unit, these outcomes are changed:
•	A DR becomes a No Effect,
•	A DS becomes an EX, and
•	Ignore the Retreat part of a DD result for all units in the 
Target Hex.

Counterattack). A 5 results in another “CB”, so the counter 
is again placed on the Axis unit. Note that a Counterblow 
marker generated by combat is always placed on the Phas-
ing Player’s units.
The last attack, against the 1st Baltic Front at 1:2 odds (no 
defensive terrain in a Counterblow battle), rolls a 1—an-
other “CA”! The Soviet Counterattack results in an “EX”. 
The 4th Army is flipped and the 1st Baltic Front is placed 
red-side-up in the Destroyed Units Holding Box (as non-
Fort Soviet units do not have two steps before Turn 17).
Above is the situation at the Start of the Soviet Player Turn. 
He will have to attack the 2 Axis units with the Counter-
blow markers if he has any friendly units adjacent to them, 
but the defenders will not get the defensive benefits of 
terrain, see rule 10.1.2 last bullet. Note that the Leningrad 
Fort, even if a white-strength unit, can attack the 9th Army 
as the German is below a “Counterblow” counter.
See a defender-generated Counterblow during the oppo-
nent Combat Phase as a diversionary/spoiling counter-at-
tack, while a Combat Result table “CB” result as a partial 
advance by the Attacker, that must be dealt with by the 
“defender” during his own Player’s turn. 
[10.7.5] Retreats: When required to retreat, the defender 
must move his units two hexes further away from the 
battle (i.e., they cannot zig-zag and end up retreating only 
one hex further away), toward a friendly Supply Source if 
possible, within these restrictions:
•	Units cannot retreat into hexes containing an enemy unit, 
across Prohibited hexsides, or off the map.
•	Units cannot retreat into hexes in an EZOC unless there is 
a friendly unit in that hex. (Friendly units negate EZOCs 
for retreat purposes.)
•	Units can pass through and end their retreat stacked with 
friendly units, but if an overstacking situation occurs, it 
must be resolved (see 8.4.3).
•	Retreating expends no MPs; you just count hexes.
Remember, Forts and units stacked with them never retreat; 
they ignore the Retreat part of DR and DD results.
If a unit is prohibited from retreating, it is eliminated in-
stead (see 10.7.1).
[10.7.6] Shattered: Units suffering a DS result must retreat 
before being removed to the Shattered Units Box. If they are 
unable to do so, they are eliminated instead (10.7.1).
Counterblow Combat Result Example
This example of play will help explain both “Counterblow” 
occurrences—those placed by the defender in the enemy 
Combat Phase, and those placed by a Combat Result. 
It’s Spring 1942. The German player is trying to “clean up” 
the frontline around Leningrad for a future assault on the 
city. He has attacks, one on the Volkhov Front, using the 9th, 
16th and 18th Armies; plus another against the Northwest 
Front, using the 4th Army and 3rd Panzer. The Russian 
player discards a card and puts a Counterblow marker on 
his 1st Baltic Front, forcing the enemy to attack it with the 
4th Army, thus dispersing the Axis strength (this is a di-
versionary attack). Note that he cannot put a Counterblow 
marker on the Leningrad Front, as this unit has a White 
Strength value (rule 10.1.2, 2nd bullet).
The attack on Volkhov is at 1:1 odds, a die roll of 4 results 
in a “CB”. The German places a Counterblow marker 
on the 9th Army—it will be resolved next turn. Against 
the Northwest Army the German player also has a 1:1 (it 
would have been 2:1 if not for the Counterblow from the 
1st Baltic Front). A die roll of 1 results in a “CA”. Feeling 
lucky, the Soviet player attacks back the 3rd Panzer Army 
at 1:2 (remember, defensive terrain does not count in a 

[10.8] Advance After Combat
Following the retreat/removal from the map of defend-
ing units after the application of a DR, DS, or DD combat 
result, if the Target Hex was completely vacated, the at-
tacking (non-Fortified) units may Advance After Combat. 
This means that the attacking units may move into the 
defender’s newly vacated hex and possibly beyond.
•	An Advance After Combat expends no MPs, nor do 
EZOCs affect it in any way; you just count the hexes.
•	A number of surviving attacking units up to the stack-
ing limit (8.4.1) can always advance into and remain in 
a defending unit’s just-vacated hex.
[10.8.1] Multi-Hex Advance: Although the first hex ad-
vanced into must be a Defending unit’s just-vacated hex, 
units may further advance a second hex within the follow-
ing restrictions:
•	Units cannot make a multi-hex advance into hexes 
containing an enemy unit, across Prohibited hexsides, 
off the map, or during Mud.
•	Units can pass through and end their multi-hex advance 
stacked with friendly units, but if overstacking occurs, 
it must be resolved (see 8.4.3).
•	Multi-hex advancing units need not follow the Defend-
ing units’ retreat path. After occupying the just-vacated 
defender’s hex, multi-hex advancing units are free to go 
to any adjacent hex that is not otherwise prohibited.
•	Important: Units must cease their Advance After Combat 
immediately upon entering a Mountain, Forest or Marsh 
hex. Crossing a River hexside does not stop an Advance 
After Combat (see the TEC).
EXAMPLE: If the defender’s just-vacated hex is a Forest hex, 
then no multi-hex Advance After Combat can take place. Advanc-
ing units would have to stop their advance in that hex.
[10.8.2] Armor Advance Bonus: German Armor-type units 
whose Advance After Combat has not been stopped in its 
second hex due to terrain considerations may, during Clear 
weather turns only, continue on and advance a third hex. 
Soviet Armor-type units get this capability starting on Turn 
11 (see rule 13.5).
[11.0] MARKER/UNIT REMOVAL 
PHASE
During the Housekeeping Phase Unsupplied units re-check their 
supply status, and surrendered units and markers are removed 
from the map.
[11.1] Resupply or Surrender
All units with Unsupplied markers trace supply again, 
first the Phasing Player’s units and then the Non-Phas-
ing Player’s. Those that still cannot trace a valid Supply 
Path are eliminated (i.e., removed from the map) two-step 
counters are placed in the Surrendered Units Box, and 
one-step counters follow the instructions on their counter 
backs. Those that can now trace a Supply Path remain on 
the map.
[11.2] Marker Removal
Remove all Unsupplied, Disorganized (for free, unlike 
7.10), Blitz! and Shock! markers from their current locations 
and return them to the Unused Markers Holding Box.
[11.3] Removal of Axis Allies
During the New Game Turn Events Phase of Turn 15, the 
Italian 8th Army is removed from play (Italy Surrenders). 
If a red Russian unit occupies the Rumanian Oil Fields (ad-
jacent to Bucharest), both Rumanian Armies are removed 
from play.
[12.0] HOW TO WIN
A Campaign Game of No Retreat! is won through many 
different ways:
•	capturing and holding Objective hexes (12.1), or
•	by gaining VPs for a Sudden Death (12.2), Soviet Total 
Victory (12.3) or German Operational Victory (12.4), or
•	by Killing Hitler (12.5), or
•	if none occurs by the last turn, the Axis player wins.
Scenarios have their own (listed) Victory Conditions.
[12.1] Objectives Victory
Axis Objectives Victory: During any Victory Phase, when 
they have the Initiative (12.9), the Axis win if they control 
(12.7.1) and can trace supply (6.0) to three of the five gray 
German Objective hexes (e.g., Moscow). After they lose 
the Initiative (Turn 12), they need to control four German 
Objective hexes instead. 
Russian Objectives Victory: The Russians win if they 
control and can trace supply (6.0) to three of the four red 
Soviet Objective hexes (e.g., Berlin).
If both occur on the same turn, the side with the Initiative 
wins.
[12.2] Sudden Death Victory
During the New Game Turn Victory Phase of Sudden 
Death turns (indicated by a skull symbol on the Turn 
Track), one player might immediately win. Players check 
the Victory Point Track and the side with the Initiative (12.9) 
immediately wins if it has more VPs than the number shown 
by his side’s symbol for the indicated Game Turn.
EXAMPLE: It is the Victory Phase of Turn 6 and the Axis player 
has the Initiative. Finding the “T6” (Turn 6) notation in the “23” 
box on the VP Track, the Axis player would win an immediate 
Sudden Death Victory if he currently had 24 or more VPs.
During the Victory Phase that begins Turn 12, the Initiative 

Event is performed and the Initiative marker is flipped 
from its Axis “Drang Nach Osten!” side to its Soviet “Na 
Berlin!” side. On this turn, both players check for a Sud-
den Death Victory; the Axis before the marker is flipped 
and the Soviets after it is flipped and the VPs have been 
recalculated (see 12.7).
[12.3] Soviet Total Victory!
If the Soviet player has 34 VPs or more during any Victory 
Phase he wins the game automatically.
[12.4] German Operational Victory
If neither of the above ways to win has been achieved by 
the end of Turn 22, an Operational Victory check is made 
at the start of Turn 23.
Compare the box on the VP Track of the Axis “High Tide” 
marker (see 12.8) against the current box containing the 
“Na Berlin!” VP marker. The result of this comparison is 
now used to see if the game continues on into 1945 or not 
as follows: 
1945 Game Continuation Procedure
If the Axis “High Tide” marker is in the higher value box, 
the Axis player wins the game outright and immediately. 
If the “Na Berlin!” marker is in an equal or higher value 
box, the game continues into 1945. Follow the steps listed 
below:
1. Duration: The game continues into 1945 (Turns 23–28). 
2. VP Marker Reset: Reset the Round Event marker to Zero 
(0), calculate the Square “Na Berlin!” new VP total, using 
only hexes in Greater Germany.
3. New Map Only: Only map hexes on Greater Germany 
are now worth points towards Sudden Death Victory 
4. Reset the Event Cards: As per Case 5.5, above.
[12.5] Killing Hitler
If the Russians eliminate the Berlin Garrison 
unit, they have killed Hitler and won the 
game. 
[12.6] End Game
If the Soviets do not win the game at the end of Turn 28, 
the Axis player wins.
[12.7] VP Scoring Schedule
Players earn VPs for control of certain hexes and by 
causing enemy units to surrender. Additionally, VPs can 
be awarded by Events. See the Player Aid Sheet for VP 
specifics. Note: there are no “Per Turn” cumulative VPs 
awarded in this game.
[12.7.1] Controlling VP Hexes: A Victory Point hex is “con-
trolled” by a side if its units were the last to pass through 
or occupy it.
[12.7.2] Controlling Finland: the area is controlled if you 
have a friendly non-Cadre, non-Axis Minor (including 
Finnish) unit inside that country and keep it there. So that 
means: 1) eliminating enemy forces in it, 2) occupying that 
country, and 3) maintaining that occupation.
[12.7.3] Objective Hexes: Except for the 1 VP from the City 
or Oil Fields in them, Objective hexes are worth no extra 
additional VPs, but see 12.1.
[12.7.4] VP Markers: The round “Event VP” marker is used 
to track the net VPs earned by causing surrenders and VPs 
awarded by Events; it can never be higher than 6 VPs (the 
excess points are lost). The square (2-sided) VP marker: A) 
shows which side has the Initiative (see 12.9), and B) shows 
the Overall VPs for the Initiative player (determined by 
adding the VPs for controlling hexes to the VPs shown by 
the Event VP marker).
[12.7.5] Keep the VP Count Current: It is important to 
maintain a current VP count. A full audit should be made 
each Victory Phase.
Event/Surrender VPs (Turns 1-28):
+1 VP: for each Non-Initiative player’s unit sent to the 
Surrendered Units Box.
–1 VP: for each Initiative player’s unit sent to the Surren-
dered Units Box.
+/–1 VP: for each card played as a VP affecting Event.
+ 1 VP (Soviet only): for each Game Turn “other theater” 
Event. Example: D-Day, Battle of the Bulge, etc.
On-Map 1941-44 VPs (Turns 1-22):
+1 VP: for each Controlled City or Oil Fields hex on the 
whole map.
+1 VP: for Controlling Finland.
On-Map 1945 VPs (Turns 23-28) :
+1 VP: for each Controlled City or Oil Fields hex in Greater 
Germany (only).
[12.8] Working the VP Markers
The square VP marker always reflects the current score 
of the side with the Initiative. This is an important concept. 
When it’s on the Axis side, it reflects only the Axis’ score; 
when it’s on the Soviet side it reflects only the Soviets’ score 
including the value of the round VP marker!
EXAMPLE: On Turn 5 the Axis have the Initiative. The Sovi-
ets retake one of their lost cities (placing a Control marker on 
it as a reminder until the VPs are next recalculated, at which 
time that Control marker would be removed) and thus gain 1 
VP. Since the VP marker currently reflects the Axis’ score, the 
Drang Nach Osten! marker is reduced by one box to reflect the 
city’s recapture.

The round VP marker is used to 
reflect the current net score of VP-
affecting Events and the loss of Sur-
rendered units (12.7.4). The value 
of the round VP marker added to (or subtracted from) the 
VPs earned for controlling hexes should always equal the 
total shown on the square VP marker.
EXAMPLE: The Axis has the Initiative on Turn 10. Previous 
Event VPs included three red Game Turn Events (–1 Axis VP 
each) and two past Soviet Event card plays (–1 Axis VP each). 
The Soviets had one previously played Axis Event card that 
cost them 1 VP (which, because the Axis has the Initiative, is 
computed as +1 Axis VP). Three Russian units have surren-
dered (+3 Axis VPs, even though two of the units have since 
been replaced).
Thus, the round Event VP marker would have recorded –5 VPs 
awarded for Soviet Events, +1 VP awarded by Axis Events, and 
+3 VPs earned for Soviet surrenders: a –1 total against the Axis 
Initiative which would place the marker on its Soviet side in the 
“1” box of the VP Track.
If the Axis had 14 VPs for controlling hexes (as determined by 
checking the map), then, during the determination of overall 
VPs, you would subtract the one (–1) VP shown by the round 
Event marker from the VPs awarded for hex control (14 – 1), 
bumping the Drang Nach Osten marker down from the 14 
box to 13 box.
Victory Points (VPs) & the VP Marker
[12.9] Initiative
The square VP marker has two 
sides, an Axis side (“Drang Nach 
Osten!” and a Soviet Side (“Na 
Berlin!”). The Initiative belongs 
to the player whose side of the square the VP marker is 
currently face-up. 
[12.10] Shifting the Initiative
The Initiative belongs to the Axis through Turn 11. Dur-
ing the Victory Phase of Turn 12, the following things 
happen:
•	Check to see if the Axis player has won a Sudden Death 
Victory (12.2). If not,
•	Place the Axis High Tide marker in the box 
currently occupied by the Axis VP marker, 
then
•	Remove the round Events VP marker from 
the VP Track as its value is reset to zero (0) at this time, 
then
•	Flip the VP marker over to its Soviet side (where the Ini-
tiative stays for the rest of the game). Adjust it to reflect 
the Soviet player’s current score (12.7) and then check to 
see if the Soviet player has won a Sudden Death Victory 
(12.2).
[13.0] GAME TURN EVENTS
When conducting a Game Turn’s Housekeeping Phase, 
Turn Track Events (and other features of interest, such as 
the weather, Support marker availability, Sudden Death 
Victory check, etc.) are noted (where they have a lasting 
effect) or applied (if its effect is an immediate, one-time 
occurrence).
[13.1] Weather
To review and summarize the effects of weather:
During Clear Game Turns:
•	There are no special effects.
During Mud Game Turns:
•	All units have a maximum of 3 MPs.
•	There are no Armor Bonus shifts (10.6.3) in combat.
•	Multi-hex Advance After Combat (10.8.1) is not permit-
ted (units can only advance into the defender’s vacated 
hex).
During Snow Game Turns:
•	All units have a maximum of 4 MPs.
•	Rivers ‘freeze’ and have no effect (i.e., they provide no 
terrain combat shift).
•	All Non-Finnish Axis attacks against Russian units suffer 
one column shift to the left in the USSR (two on Turn 5).
•	Multi-hex Advance After Combat is permitted, but the 
Armor Advance Bonus is not (i.e., there is a two hex 
Advance After Combat limit).
Long Winter Game Turns: When there are 
consecutive Snow turns, the second (and pos-
sibly third) turn in a row of Snow is called a 
Long Winter turn. Place the Long Winter marker 
on the map somewhere as a reminder. Instead of 
Snow weather, the effects of Long Winter (below) go into 
effect for those Game Turns:
•	There is no Armor Bonus shifts (10.6.3) in combat.
•	Multi-Hex Advance After Combat (10.8.1) is not permit-
ted (units can only advance into the defender’s vacated 
hex).
•	The Axis player can only use three “Target” markers (so 
can only do three attacks max).
•	All units have a maximum of 4 MPs.
•	Rivers ‘freeze’ and have no effect (i.e., they provide no 
terrain combat shift).
•	All Non-Finnish Axis attacks against Russian units suffer 
two column shifts to the left in the USSR. 
[13.2] Sudden Death
During the Victory Phase of each Game Turn marked with 
a skull symbol, check for Sudden Death Victory (12.2).

[13.3] Support Markers
The Axis player receives a number of Blitz!, and the Soviet 
player a number of Shock! markers at the beginning of that 
turn as indicated by their symbols on the Turn Track.
EXAMPLE: At the beginning of Turn 5, the Axis player re-
ceives 0 Blitz! markers and the Soviet player receives 3 Shock! 
markers.
These markers represent superior training, doctrine, tactics 
and leadership, plus elements of surprise, air power, artillery 
concentrations, logistical support, and so forth. 
[13.4] Game Turn Events
During these turns, a major event takes place in another 
theater of WW2 and the Russians score 1 VP at the begin-
ning of that Game Turn during the Victory Phase (as per 
12.5). 
[13.5] Game Turn Effects
The text in the Game Turn boxes reflect these effects as 
listed (by Game Turn number) below:
1, 2 – Limited Rail Moves: During Turns 1 and 2, The Axis 
cannot do any Rail Moves; and The Soviet cannot purchase 
any extra Moves (9.1.3), but he is still allowed to make his 
one free Rail Move.
1-4 – No Axis Replacements: During Turns 1 through 4, 
the Axis player cannot discard cards in order to Replace 
or Improve units (7.1). Only certain Event cards can be 
used by the Axis for these purposes during the first four 
Game Turns.
3 – Begin Soviet Fortifying: Starting on this turn, and 
for the remainder of the game, Soviet (one-step) Regional 
infantry units (only) that can trace a Supply Path (6.1) can 
be upgraded into (two-step) Fortified infantry units (7.5). 
Other Soviet units can’t be upgraded before Turn 6, nor 
become two-step units before Turn 17.
Thus you can always pay a card to upgrade them; or use one of 
the free improvements starting on turn 6.
5 – Begin German Replacements: The Axis player can 
commence discarding cards to Replace or Improve his 
units during his Organization Phase (7.0).
5 – Two Shift Penalty vs. Soviets: This Snow Weather Turn, 
the Axis player loses two shifts to the left when attacking 
Soviet units instead of the usual one.
6 – Begin One Free Soviet Upgrade: During his Organiza-
tion Phase, the Soviet player receives one free unit upgrade 
(“Education”) per turn (7.2).
8-9 – Germans +1 Card: During his Card Phase, the Axis 
player receives one extra Event card (for those turns 
only).
11 – Soviets get the Tank Advance Bonus: During his 
Player-Turn, the Soviet Tank units start getting the Armor 
Advance Bonus (10.8.2).
12 – Na Berlin!: During the Victory Phase, the Initiative 
shifts to the Soviets (12.7).
13 - Begin Two Free Soviet Upgrades: During his Orga-
nization Phase, the Soviet player receives a second free 
(“Experience”) unit upgrade per turn (7.2.1).
15 – Remove the Italian 8th Army: Regardless of its loca-
play (see 11.3). Italy just surrendered to the Allies!
16 – Remove the 2nd Panzer Army: Regardless of its loca-
play. If it has been eliminated or is currently not in Supply, 
the Axis player loses one Card Draw this turn.
17 – Soviet Units Have Two Steps: All Soviet units (excep-
tion: the Ostatky and Fortified Front units) now have two 
steps (7.3).
18 – Remove the SS Panzer Army: Regardless of its loca-
play. If it has been eliminated or is currently not in Supply, 
the Axis player loses one Card Draw this turn.
20 – Germans only 3 Targets: Starting now, the Axis player 
can only use three Target markers per turn (instead of the 
regular five).
21 – Soviets get one extra Card: Starting now, the Soviet 
player get one extra Card Draw per Card Phase until the 
end of the game.
23 – Begin Soviet Stacking: The Soviet can now stack any 
two of their units in one hex.
23 – Reich Defenses: The Berlin Garrison and Volkssturm 
units appear on their indicated Cities as Reinforcements. 
The Axis player will draw only one Event card this turn. 
Be mindful of the Stacking Limit (8.4).
23+ – SS Panzer Return: The SS Panzer unit removed on 
Turn 18 can reappear as a full-strength (two step) German 
reinforcement unit on a 1945 Game Turn at the cost of 1 VP, 
payable during the Axis Organization Phase.
24 – End German Improvement: The Germans can no 
longer improve their units (7.1) for the rest of the game.
26 – Germans only one Target: Starting now the Axis 
player can only use one Target marker per turn.
28 – Remove Berlin Garrison: Remove the German “Berlin 
Garrison” from the game; it is not considered eliminated 
by the Soviets.
GG – Greater Germany Invaded: The turn after a Soviet 
unit crosses the borderline between Russia and Greater 
Germany/Rumania, the German units designated as “GG” 
Reinforcements appears in any city in Greater Germany. 
Be mindful of the Stacking Limit (8.4).

The two Hungarian “GG” Reinforcement 
units are placed in empty, Axis-controlled 
hexes that can trace an Overland Supply Path 
and are within four hexes of Budapest.
Oil – Ploesti Captured: The turn after the Soviets first 
control the Rumanian Oil Fields hex, Rumania surrenders 
and non-SS German Panzer units lose their Armor (10.6.3) 
and Advance (10.8.2) bonuses. Also, the units designated 
as “Oil” Reinforcements enter play and are placed by their 
controlling player thus:
•	The German Group E and F 
units are placed in empty, Axis-
controlled hexes that can trace an 
Overland Supply Path and are 
within four hexes of Bucharest 
and/or inside the Western Balkans area (only, not in 
Southern Balkans). Be mindful of the Stacking Limit (8.4).
•	The Soviet-Allied Rumanian unit is placed 
on its (one step) reduced-strength side in an 
empty, Soviet-controlled hex that can trace 
an Overland Supply Path and is within two 
hexes of that Oil Fields hex.
•	The two Yugoslavian armies are placed on 
their Fortress sides, separately or together, 
in the Western and/or Southern Balkans 
areas.
Note that the Axis player can position his units in such a man-
ner that these Yugoslavian armies must arrive in an untenable 
stacking situation and thus be immediately eliminated; this is 
intentional and allowed.
Warsaw – Poland ‘Liberated:’ The turn after 
the Soviets first control Warsaw, the one step 
Soviet-Allied Polish unit is placed in an 
empty hex that can trace an Overland Supply 
Path and is within two hexes of Warsaw.
[14.0] SPECIAL UNITS/RULES 
To review and summarize the effects of some special units 
and unit types: 
[14.1] Regional / Fortified Units
Regional Infantry units can be 
upgraded in the normal way (7.1) 
to two-step Fortified units starting 
on Game Turn 3 (13.5). They can 
revert back to their one-step Regional Infantry side either 
by taking a step loss in combat or through voluntary rever-
sion during the Soviet Organization Phase (7.5).
•	Fortified units cannot voluntarily attack (10.1.1), but 
they can use their Combat Strength for a Counterblow 
(10.1.2).
•	Fortified units do not suffer the effects of any Retreat 
outcomes called for in combat (even ones that suffered 
a step loss in that battle and are now suddenly Regional 
Infantry units).
•	The Finnish unit has two-steps, remains 
Fortified at both step levels, can never move 
or retreat out of Finland, and is always in 
supply.
•	The German Fortified Units are permanently removed 
from the game when eliminated. As stated on their re-
verse sides.
[14.2] Axis Allies
Except for the Finnish unit, Axis Allied units only have one 
step. Some units are removed from play when:
•	Italy surrenders on Turn 15 (11.3).
•	Rumania surrenders when a Russian unit enters the Oil 
Fields hex in Rumania (11.3).
•	Hungarian units will fight until the end.
When eliminated by combat or supply, those one-step units 
are put on the Turn Track to arrive as free reinforcements, 
as indicated on their reverse side.
Note that this means that these units do not go into the Surren-
dered Units Box, nor does it score the opponent 1 VP.
[14.3] Armor-Type Units
These represent large tank formations. They 
are disadvantaged when moving through 
difficult terrain (having their own “Armor” 
Movement Costs on the Terrain Effects Chart), 
but receive the following advantages in battle:
•	A one-column shift to the right when attacking (or 
counterattacking) most infantry-type units in a Clear hex 
during a non-Mud Game Turn (10.6.3).
•	An additional hex of Advance After Combat on Clear 
weather turns (10.8.2).
[14.4] Mechanized Infantry
These are better-motorized formations with 
added anti-armor capabilities. They move as 
infantry-type units (i.e., paying the “Other” 
Movement Costs on the Terrain Effects Chart. 
When defending in combat, the attacker cannot receive the 
Armor Attack Bonus (10.6.3) against them.
[14.5] German SS Panzer Army
This unit represents better-equipped and elite 
German troops.
•	This unit always receives the Armor Attack Bonus (10.6.3) 
under all circumstances and at both of its step levels. 
Exceptions for enemy unit types, terrain or weather do 
not apply.
•	Whenever this unit attacks (or counterattacks), it must 

take the required step loss in an EX result.
•	 Cost one card to flip to its front side.
[14.6] SS Panzergrenadier Unit
This German unit has special defensive prop-
erties similar to that of the SS Panzer unit’s 
offense.
•	This unit always receives a one column shift to the left 
when defending (only).
•	Unless attacking with the SS Panzer unit, this unit must 
take any required step loss in combat whether attacking 
or defending.
•	Cost one card to flip to its front side.
[14.7] Russian Shock Units
These two units represent a concentration of 
assault troops and artillery. 
•	While this side of the unit is face-up, it always receives 
one combat shift to the right when attacking (or counter-
attacking) against any type of enemy unit, in any type 
of terrain or weather.
•	Whenever this unit attacks (or counterattacks), it must 
take the required step loss in an EX result.
•	Cost two cards to replace or to flip to its red-side.
[14.8] Yugoslav Army
The two Yugoslavian army units can only flip 
to or from their Fort counter side when located 
in one of the two Balkan areas on the map (rep-
resenting the rugged and mountainous terrain 
where these partisans have operated from for years). They 
also draw their supply for those two areas.
[14.9] Cadre Units
German Kampfgruppe (KG) units 
and the Russian Ostatky (remnants) 
unit are collectively called “Cadre” 
units. Cadre units represent a 
hodge-podge mix of stopgap units and Army remnants, put 
together as ‘scratch’ formations to plug an immediate hole 
in the line and as a veteran core around which a regular 
unit can be reformed. 
Cadres have only one-step and cannot initiate voluntary 
attacks (10.1.1), but they can participate in counterattacks 
and against Counterblows (10.1.2).
[14.9.1] Cadre Reinforcement Arrival: When received as 
Reinforcement, Cadre units are not placed on the map, 
but are instead added to the Cadre Units Available Box 
for later placement, and have their reinforcement turn of 
entry underlined as a reminder.
[14.9.2] On-Map Placement: Cadre units in the Cadre Units 
Available Box are voluntarily placed on the map by their 
owner in a hex where a friendly (non-Cadre) unit was just 
eliminated (10.7.1) to fulfill the step loss requirement of a 
DD or EX result. Removal of a non-Cadre unit from the 
map by any other means (inability to retreat, lack of sup-
ply, etc.) does not allow a Cadre unit to be placed in that 
removed unit’s hex.
[14.9.3] Removal from the Map: When removed from the 
map for any reason (except to Entrain for Rail Movement; 
9.1)—such as becoming Shattered, a Cadre unit is placed 
on the Turn Track to arrive on the next Game Turn as a 
Reinforcement. If there is already a friendly Cadre unit 
scheduled to arrive as reinforcement on the next Turn Track 
box, that Cadre unit is placed instead on the next Turn Track 
box where there is not already a Cadre unit scheduled to 
arrive. That is, each player’s Cadre units arrive at a rate of one 
per Game Turn, maximum.
Note that this means a Cadre does not go into the Surren-
dered Units Box, nor does it score the opponent 1 VP.
[14.9.4] Replacement Location: Eliminated and Surren-
dered units that are Replaced as per 7.4 (only, not Rein-
forcement or Recovered Shattered units) may, in addition 
to those locations prescribed in Rule 7.1, also be placed in 
a hex where there is a friendly Cadre unit that can trace an 
overland Supply Path (6.1) to a friendly map edge. When 
placed in that hex, that Cadre unit is removed from the 
map and placed on the Turn Track as per 14.9.3.
In effect, that eliminated unit is “rebuilt” on the front lines 
around a surviving Cadre formation.
[14.10] Luftwaffe Ground Unit
This unit functions as a German unit except 
that if eliminated by combat or supply, it is put 
on the Turn Track to arrive as free reinforce-
ment, as indicated on its reverse side.
[14.11] Volkssturm Units:
The one-step German Volkssturm, repre-
sents hasty fortifications and mobilization 
of citizens for the last-ditch defense of their 
Fatherland.
Special Ability: When a defending hex contains a Volks–
sturm unit, treat a DR (Defender Retreat) result as No 
Effect (as if the Volkssturm unit were Fortified Infantry). 
However, after this combat result conversion is applied, 
the Volkssturm unit is permanently eliminated from the game 
(even if stacked with a regular Fort unit).
DESIGN NOTE: The implication is that attacking enemy units 
won’t be able to Advance After Combat (10.8, because the com-
bat result was, after conversion, a “No Effect”). Also, any unit 
stacked with a thus-removed Volkssturm unit remains in place 
after that battle, unaffected by its outcome.

[14.12] Soviet Strategic Reserve
The Soviet player can form Strategic Reserves.
[14.12.1] Procedure: At the end of any Soviet 
Rail Movement Phase (starting on Turn 4), the 
Soviet player may place the Strategic Reserve 
marker on top of any one Soviet unit in the 
Rail Movement Box (and it can be moved between units 
in that box from turn to turn).
[14.12.2] Effect: The unit thus indicated as “in the strategic 
reserve” may return to the map at the beginning of a future 
Soviet Movement Phase (as it would via Detraining; 9.2) 
and can move normally during that Movement Phase after 
Detraining.
[14.13] Play Aid Markers
Reminder Markers
These “Reminder” markers are used to help players re-
member certain future or ongoing game conditions:
•	The –1 /–2 Card Draw marker can be placed 
on the current Game Turn on the Turn Track 
as a reminder that one side is drawing fewer 
cards that turn (e.g., the Soviets draw –1 
card if Moscow is Axis controlled). 
•	The No Sudden Death marker can be placed 
on the next Sudden Death Game Turn on the 
Turn Track as a reminder that an Event card 
has been played to cancel a Sudden Death 
Victory Check.
•	The Scorched Earth and De-
fensive Works markers appear 
on the map, and their use is ex-
plained, by some Event cards (see 
cards #07 and #41). 
Control Markers
Control markers are useful in the following ways:
•	To mark the ownership of key 
hexes along the front line, particu-
larly where it might affect Supply 
Paths.
•	To indicate which Objectives have changed control that 
turn, reminding you to adjust the Victory Point total at 
the end of that turn.
•	You might want to keep them on the Objectives you 
control at all times.
•	Place them on recently moved units as a reminder that 
they cannot be moved again that turn.
[14.14] Variable Weather
The weather during the March/April, Sep-
tember/ October and November/ December 
turns (only) might deviate from what is 
printed on the Turn Track.
[14.14.1] Set Up: Be sure to include cards #32–35 in the 
deck (as per 3.1 in this rule book). Place the three Weather 
markers on their current/next available turns on the Turn 
Track on their matching weather sides.
EXAMPLE: At the start of the Campaign Game, the Sept/Oct 
marker would be placed in the Game Turn 3 box on its MUD 
side, the Nov/Dec marker in the Game Turn 4 box on its SNOW 
side, and the Mar/April marker in the Game Turn 6 box on its 
MUD side.
[14.14.2] It’s in God’s Hands: A weather card’s “Play Im-
mediately” Event only occurs when that card has been 
revealed from the Draw Pile and cannot be negated or 
canceled by the play of another Event.
[14.14.3] Weather Effects: Use the appropriate weather ef-
fects for the current Game Turn based its Weather marker’s 
status. 
[15.0] OPTIONAL RULES 
These Optional Rules add greater detail and realism or can 
be used for play-balance; at the expense of some added 
complexity. Players are free to use any or all of them by 
mutual agreement.
[15.1] Abteilung (Detachment) Units
Once per game during any Axis Reinforcement 
Phase on or after Turn 8, the Axis player may 
permanently remove a supplied, non-stacked, 
full-strength German 4-4 Infantry Army from 
the game and replace it with the two 3-3 Infantry Detach-
ment units in the same hex; or adjacent (not in an EZOC). 
The same goes for the 2-5 Mechanized Infantry Detach-
ment, but in this case you lose one step from any German 
Panzer Army. These processes are not reversible. 
Historically, the German 11th Army was broken down to rein-
force different parts of the front, mainly around Leningrad.
[15.2] Fortified Front units
Once per game during any Axis Reinforce-
ment Phase on or after Turn 5, the Soviet 
player may permanently removes a supplied, 
non-stacked, Russian 4-3 Infantry Front from 
the game and replace it with these two 3-2 Fortified Front 
units in the same hex; or adjacent (not in an EZOC). This 
process is not reversible. 
The Soviets created many “Fortified Areas” during the war to 
hold some sectors of the Front.
[15.3] Local Combat Support
These markers represent extra local 
resources that can be assigned to 
specific Armies or Fronts. They start 
the game on one side and are flipped to their other side on 
Turn 11, as shown on the counters.

[15.3.1] Which Units can Receive Support: The Phasing 
Player can add the Combat Support marker to any one 
supplied friendly unit at the end of his Movement Phase. 
[15.3.2] Adding Combat Support to a Friendly Unit: To 
add combat support to a friendly unit, simply put the 
marker over it after its Movement Phase is done.
[15.3.3] Amount of Support Received: The Axis starts 
with the marker on its +2 side, so two additional Strength 
Points are added to that unit. The Soviets start the game 
with the marker on its +1 side so one additional Strength 
Point is added to the supported unit.
[15.3.4] Removing Support Markers: Each marker will 
stay and move with his assigned unit until the unit next 
Movement Phase, unless this unit is eliminated: then it is 
removed from the map and put aside. 
[15.3.5] Step Losses: The Combat Support markers are not 
units and cannot be taken as step losses.
[15.4] No Variable Weather
When using this Optional Rule, If a player draws a Weather 
Event, simply ignore that event, discard the card and draw 
a replacement (as the red text indicates). 
DESIGN NOTE: Variable Weather could sometimes have a 
significant impact on game play. So is not recommended for 
“tournament level” competitive games. 
[15.5] Faster Reorganization
As an exception to 7.10, discarding a card where your side’s 
Event shows the current side’s Initiative symbol on it allows 
the removal of up to two Disorganized markers.
EXAMPLE: During an early Game Turn, the Soviet player 
discards his “Rasputitsa” Event card (with its Axis Initiative 
symbol on it) to Reorganize units during his Organization Phase. 
Thus he can remove up to two Disorganized markers.
[15.6] No Surrender
The Sudden Death rule (12.2) is modified as follows:
•	If the side with the Initiative (12.6) has as many VPs as 
the number shown by his side’s symbol for the indicated 
Game Turn, the other player must immediately discard 
one card at random, if available.
•	If the side with the Initiative (12.6) has one more VP than 
the number shown by his side’s symbol for the indicated 
Game Turn, the other player must immediately discard 
one card at random, if available, and draws one fewer 
(–1) card next turn.
•	If the side with the Initiative (12.6) has two or more VPs 
than the number shown by his side’s symbol for the in-
dicated Game Turn, the other player must immediately 
discard one card at random, if available, and draws two 
fewer (–2) cards next turn.
A player cannot lose more than two Card Draws in this 
manner (you can use the reminder markers to remember the 
reduced Card Draw), and the game continues.
DESIGN NOTE: Thus the game cannot end by “Sudden Death” 
anymore. This will affect basic game play, but it will insure that 
the contest lasts longer between players of different skill levels.
[15.7] The Joker Event Card
This card will always be in a player hand, and does not 
count toward the six-card hand limit.
•	If the side with the Initiative will start a game or scenario 
with its possession, his side’s color-side up.
•	When the owner uses the card, he flips it to the other 
card-side and gives it to his opponent.
DESIGN NOTE: This rule helps recycling the Event deck more 
rapidly, thus getting more card variety and opportunities. 
[15.8] Rezervy (Reserve) Unit
This unit appears in the Destroyed Units Box 
during the Reinforcement Phase of Turn 5. 
•	It stacks for free and does not count against 
the regular Soviet stacking limit.
•	If not stacked with a unit at the end of a Movement Phase, 
it is put in the Destroyed Units Box.
•	It is built back like a regular Soviet unit.
•	It has no combat value and cannot voluntarily attack, but 
can be used to take a combat step loss. 
DESIGN NOTE: This represents large concentrations of units 
in an hex normally not possible to represent by using the game’s 
stacking rules. It can be used as a play-balance tool to also help a 
Soviet player that has difficulty holding his Fortified Cities.
[15.9] Paratroop/Partisan Marker
This unit appears in the Soviet Rail Move-
ment Box during the Reinforcement Phase of 
Turn 4.
•	You can put it on the map during the Soviet Detraining 
Phase, on any Axis unit in the USSR that is adjacent to 
a supplied Soviet unit in Snow, Long Winter, or Mud 
turns
•	When put on the map, it is flipped over to its “Shattered” 
side: the Axis unit will be affected by it like a regular 
“Shattered” marker.
•	It is then removed from play in the Axis Marker Removal 
Phase, to arrive as a Reinforcement four turns later. 
DESIGN NOTE: This rule simulate the disruption caused by 
the occasional airborne operations and partisan activity behind 
German lines. 
[15.10] Solitaire Round Counters
The five counters on the next-to-last row of round game 
pieces will be used in an upcoming solitaire module, to be 
published in C3i Magazine.

[16.0] COMBINED EXAMPLE OF PLAY
It is the start of the Turn 2 German Movement Phase. The 
Axis player plans to blast his way through the center at high 
odds, and then use Advance After Combat to firmly encircle 
Kiev (and, with luck, to have the Soviet unit there wither 
and die in an unsupplied state during the Soviet player’s 
turn) and to surround Odessa and attack that unit so that 
it has no retreat route and kill it before the Soviet player 
can evacuate it on his turn via Rail Movement (well, “Sea 
Movement” in this case). The Axis player moves his units 
as shown below, setting up his two envisioned attacks:
But the Soviet player can read the map, too, and sees 
where this might be headed. It doesn’t look good for his 
units around Kiev, so he plays his “Maskirovka” Event 
card to immediately bring an entrained Russian unit onto 
the map. He wants to place it in the hex southeast of Kiev 
(adjacent to both the Central and Bryansk Fronts) to keep 
his supply lines from becoming tenuous and lending some 
Counterblow fire-power if opportunity permits.
The Axis player is fortunate, however, as he is holding his 
Inexperienced Soviet Officers Event card, which, after a bit 
of reflection, he decides to use to cancel the Soviet player’s 
card. The Soviet player grumbles and returns his unit to 
the Rail Movement Box.
With that excitement over, the Axis Combat Phase begins 
and the Axis player designates the Soviet Bryansk Front 
(A) and South Front (B) as Target Hexes.
Seeing that Kiev is not an Axis Target Hex, the Soviet player 
realizes that the Axis player is going to try to encircle both 
Kiev and Odessa, leaving his Central Front unit in Kiev 
to die from lack of supply. Since losing 1 VP and having 
to pay two cards to bail out his best unit from the Sur-
rendered Units Box in a future turn is not desirable, the 
Soviet player launches a Counterblow, discarding a card 
to activate the Central Front in Kiev as a Target Hex. He 
is trying to put the Axis player on the horns of a dilemma 
by forcing an involuntary counterattack. He discards his 
STAVKA Event card and places a Counterblow marker 
on the Central Front. Resigned to his fate, the Axis player 
starts recalculating the possibilities around Kiev and takes 
another look at his own card hand. In it he finds his Gott 
Mit Uns (“God is With Us”) card and then sees the Erich 
von Manstein Event atop the Discard Pile from Soviet 
player’s recent discard (that was the Axis Event on that 
same STAVKA Event card). It’s an ideal card play situation 
and the Axis player makes it.
“Well, hoody-hoo!,” the Axis player exclaims. “I think Erich 
needs to double the strength of one German unit. Let me 
think about which...”
The German player decides that von Manstein will be used 
in the north at his crucial attack on Smolensk this turn and 
won’t be appearing at our battles in the Ukraine.
According to his plan in the south, the Axis player first 
proceeds with his grand attack (A) in the center of the line 
against the Soviet Bryansk Front, the success of which (and 
Advance After Combat) will greatly influence the other 
battles nearby. His strength ratio is 15:3 (5:1). Note that 
there is no shift to the right for the Armor Bonus (10.6.3) as 
the Target Hex includes an Armor or Mechanized Infantry 
unit type. The Axis player rolls on the 5:1 odds column on 
the German Combat Results Table. A die roll of “3” yields 
a DS result, and the Bryansk Front is retreated two hexes 
and is then placed in the Shattered Units Box. The Axis 
player advances his units after combat as shown (with his 
armor taking its Advance Bonus to move an additional 
hex, as per 10.8.2) to isolate Kiev and maintain his Supply 
Path to the western map edge (i.e., the Mountain hex in 
Rumania). The two 4-4 Armies can trace directly to it, and 
the Panzer Army can trace to an Alternate Supply Source 
(6.2)—the supplied 4-4 Army adjacent to its own hex as 
illustrated below. 

CREDITS
Game System Design: Carl Paradis
Documentation and Game System Development: 
Alan Emrich, Carl Paradis
Deluxe Version Playtesting & Proofing: Brian Asklev, 
John Collis, Marc Guenette, Benoit Larose, Michael 
Marentette, Matthew Looby, Dieter Schlaepfer, Stan 
Myszak, Frédéric Velasco, Philippe Parmentier, Davy 
Gerard, Andrei Shlepov, Renaud Vibien
Art Director, Cover Art & Package Design: Rodger B. MacGowan
Map & Rulebook Layout: Mark Simonitch
Counters: Carl Paradis and Mark Simonitch
GMT Proofreading: Hans Korting
Production Coordination: Tony Curtis
Producers: Tony Curtis, Rodger MacGowan, Andy Lewis, 
Gene Billingsley and Mark Simonitch
DEDICATION
This game is dedicated to the Soldiers of the Soviet 2nd 
Shock Army that fought in the Leningrad region: Even 
after their unit was virtually destroyed twice, against 
all odds and after great sacrifices they heroically drove 
the Nazi foe out of their homeland. Ending the war 
as one of the Armies that had advanced the deepest 
into the Third Reich. 
Отступать нельзя!
This leaves the Axis player two Target Hexes to deal with. 
He has one Blitz! marker that is not urgently required for 
battles in the north, but he opts not to use it in his next at-
tack, which he decides will be against the South Front in 
Odessa (B). With a 9:3 (i.e., 3:1) ratio, and two shifts to the 
left (2L), one each for the River and City terrain, you’d think 
the Axis player would desperately use a Blitz! marker at 
this battle; but no! He has one more Event card up his sleeve 
and plays it now: Heinz Guderian. ‘Swift Heinz’ turns an 
Axis attack into an automatic DR result, and that is exactly 
what the Axis player wants. With nowhere to retreat, the 
South Front is placed in the Destroyed Units Box, and the 
Axis units advance through Odessa.
This leaves the German 4-4 6th Army to make an invol-
untary counterattack vs. the Counterblow from the Soviet 
Central Front in Kiev (C). The attacker’s 4:5 ratio becomes 
a 1:2 odds attack. Knowing that there are no shifts for ter-
rain in a Counterattack, the Axis player could commit his 
available Blitz! marker to bump the odds up to 1:1, but 
again he decides not to. 
Why? Because he’s hoping for an indecisive result to keep 
the Soviet unit in place so that it will be Unsupplied (and, 
hopefully, removed from the map in that state) during the 
upcoming Soviet player’s turn.
The Axis player launches his 1:2 odds attack and the die 
roll is a 1, yielding a CA result. The Soviet player seizes the 
opportunity to launch a 5:4 ratio (1:1 odds) Counterattack 
of his own, as shown in the next illustration. 
Hoping to roll a ‘6,’ the Soviet player throws the die and 
rolls a ‘3’ for a CB (Counterblow): He would have to put 
an Axis-colored Counterblow marker on the German 6th 
Army (as it is the Phasing unit), and the Counterblow 
would then have to be resolved next turn, during the 
Soviet Combat Phase, like a “regular card-paid” Counter-
blow: Not good! Desperate, and despite his low chances 
for success (even a roll of ‘5’ would help, as it would send 
his Central Front to the Destroyed Units Box instead of 
the Surrendered Units Box), the Soviet player commits 
his last Event card, Heroes of the Soviet Union, and re-rolls 
the die. This time he tosses a 2 for a CA result. The Axis 
player declines to make a Counterattack and the battle 
ends there. 

GMT Games, LLC
 P.O. Box 1308, Hanford, CA 93232-1308
www.GMTGames.com
INDEX
1945 Cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.5
Abteilung Detachment Units. . . . . . . . . . . . 15.1
Advance After Combat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.8
Alternate Supply Sources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.2
Armor Advance Bonus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.8.2
Armor-Type Units (Armor Shift). . . . . . . . 14.3
Axis Allies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11.3, 14.2
Blitz Markers: See Support Markers
Cadre Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.9
Combat Strength. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.3, 10.4, 10.5
Combat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.0
Combat Odds Shifts. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.6
Combat Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.7
Control Markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.13
Counterattack. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.7, 10.7.2
Counterblows. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.1.2, 10.7, 10.7.3
Discard Step. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.1
Disorganized Markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.7, 7.9, 7.10
Draw Step. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.2
Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.3, 5.4, 6.5.5
	 Initiative Events (Balkenkreuz, Star). . . 5.3.3
EZOC (Enemy Zones of Control). . . . . . . . 8.5
Final Odds Column. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.5
Finland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.6, 12.7.2
Fortress Conversion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.5
Fortified (Fort) Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.7.4, 14.1, 15.2
Game Turn Events. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13.4
High Tide Marker. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.4
Hitler. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.5
How to Win. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.0
Improving Reduced Strength Units . . . . . . 7.1
Initial Odds Column. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.5
Initiative. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.9, 12.10
Joker Event Card. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.7
Kampfgruppe Units: See Cadre Units
Local Combat Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.3
Long Winter Turns. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13.1
Luftwaffe Unit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14.10
Mechanized Infantry Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.4
Movement Allowance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.3, 8.1
Na Berlin!. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.5, 12.2, 12.4, 12.9
Objective Hexes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.7.3
Objectives Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12.1
Oil Fields. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.2, 8.7, 11.3, 
13.5, 14.2
One-Step Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.4
Optional Rules . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.0
Overland Supply Path. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.1
	 Blocking Supply Paths. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.3
Out of Supply Effects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.5
Paratroop/Partisan Marker . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.9
Rail Movement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9.0
Recovery (of Shattered Units) . . . . . . . . . . 5.4, 7.7
Regional Units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.5, 13.5, 14.1
Reinforcements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.6, 7.8
Reminder Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.13
Reorganization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.10, 15.5
Replacements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.4, 7.6, 7.9, 
7.9.2, 13.5
Retreats. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.7.5
Rezervy (Reserve) Unit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.8
Shattered. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.7, 10.7, 10.7.6
Shock markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.5
Shock Units (Soviet). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.7
SS Units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.5, 14.6
Stacking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.4
Strategic Reserve (Soviet). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.12
Strong and Robust. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.3
Sudden Death Victory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.2, 13.2, 15.6
Supply Sources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.1, 6.2
Support Markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.5, 10.6.2, 13.3
Surrender (and Surrenderred Units). . . . . . 7.9, 10.7.1, 11.1, 
12.7
Unit Placement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.6
Unsupplied Markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.4
Unsupplied Effects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.5
Upgrades (Education). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.2
Variable Weather. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.13, 15.4
VP Markers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.7.4, 12.8
Victory Points. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12.9
Volkssturm Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.11
Weather. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8.2, 13.1, 14.14
Yugoslavia & Yugoslav Army. . . . . . . . . . . 8.7, 13.5, 14.8
Zones of Control. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.3, 8.5