NO THANKS!
NO THANKS!
Overview
In this game you want to get the fewest points possible. Each card is 
worth its face value. You start with a hand of Pass tokens. These Pass 
tokens subtract from your total score, but you need them to avoid 
taking high scoring cards that you don’t want. 
You start your turn with one available face up card. If you take the 
card (and any Pass tokens on the card), it goes in front of you and 
another card replaces it. If you don’t want a card, simply put a token 
on the card and then play passes to your left. If you do take cards, 
you ultimately want them in sequential runs. Individual runs are 
scored only by the number of the lowest valued card in the run.
Components
	33 Cards (Numbered 3 – 35) These Rules 	
55 Pass Tokens 
Setup
Before starting, determine the number of rounds you are going to 
play—we recommend four rounds. Keep a cumulative score from 
round to round. You will need to have a way to keep track of this 
(a pen and paper are classic). You may also enjoy playing as a single 
scoring round. 
Shuffle the cards. Count out 9 cards and set them aside for this 
round, do not look at these cards. The remaining 24 cards form a 
face-down draw deck. Place these cards in the center of the table. 
Flip over the top card and place it next to the draw deck so that it is 
visible to all players. This is the active card.
Each player takes 11 Pass tokens (6 players 9 Pass tokens each; 7 
players 7 tokens). Return any remaining tokens to the box. Keep 
your tokens secret in your hand.
If you most recently received a gift, go first.
Gameplay
On your turn either:
1. Place a Pass token on the active card, and play 
passes to your left. You may not pass if you have no 
Pass tokens to place on the active card.
Or
2. Take the active card and add it to your play area. 
In addition, take the Pass tokens on it and add them 
to your hidden supply. You then turn over a new 
active card from the draw deck and continue your 
turn making this same decision again.
Play Area
When you build your play area, place any cards that you take face-
up directly in front of you laid, out for all players to see. Your cards 
are all public information. If you have any cards in sequence, it 
helps ease of play for you to show that your cards are in sets by 
overlapping your cards.
End of Round
The round ends when you take the last active card and there are no 
cards left in the draw deck to replace it.
By Thorsten Gimmler
Players:	  3–7 
Ages:	
  8 and up 
Duration: 20 Minutes

Scoring
Each card in your play area is worth its face value in points. But it 
is worth nothing if a card is part of a sequencial run and it isn‘t the 
lowest card in that sequence. Building sets of sequential runs of 
cards allows for a dramatic reduction in points.
Brad has 5 cards in front of him 
(8, 13, 14, 15, 17). Because the 
8 is in isolation, Brad will score 
the 8 points. The 13, 14, and 
15 are a sequential run, and 
of those the 13 is the lowest in 
the sequence; all three of these 
cards together only score 
13 points. The 17 is also in 
isolation so Brad scores those 
17 points as well. His card point 
total is 38 (8+13+17). 
If he had the 16 as well, the 
17 would be connected to the 
sequence and his total score 
from cards would be 
21 instead (8+13).
After you have tallied your card points, subtract 1 point for each 
Pass token you have left in your hand.
Brad had 38 card points and had 
13 Pass tokens left in his hand. 
Subtract 1 for each token 
(38-13). Brad has a total of 25 
points for the round.
Record your scores and begin another round if this was not the last 
round.
End of Game
At the end of the predetermined number of rounds, total your score. 
Whoever has the lowest score wins.
Tips
 * It is very rare for a player to finish the game without taking any 
cards. It is usually better to decide to take a card with some tokens 
on it, than to be stuck having to take a card because you have no 
Pass tokens left.
 * Clever players will know when to pass on a card that they want, 
knowing others will not want it. Sending a card around the table 
one or two more times will quickly build up the number of tokens 
that you can collect. Keep in mind, other players may want to or 
have to take it and strip you of your glory.
 * Don‘t forget that there are 9 cards that are removed from play. 
Trying to bridge a single card gap might be impossible, but the 
likelihood of failure increases, the farther the gap is. You just 
never know what the missing cards are.
Hidden Tiger Variant
By Larry Chong
During Setup, from the 9 cards that are to be set aside, deal one to 
each player face-down. You may look at this card. 
Any time, on your turn, you may chose to play this card into your 
play area, then continue your turn. If you do not play this card, it will 
not count against you.
Amigo Variant
For 3-5 players. During Setup, give each player 10 pass tokens. 
Remove the cards numbered 10, 20, and 30 from play (or 10, 19, 
and 28 for higher end runs). Shuffle the deck and remove six more 
random cards. 
Knowing three of the nine gaps in advance grants everybody some 
secure information and increases the tactical element of the game. 
© AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH, D-63128 Dietzenbach, MMXI	
Version 1.0
Copyright © 2004, 2010, 2011, 2015 Amigo and Mayfair Games, 
Inc. Published under license from AMIGO Spiel + Freizeit GmbH 
(amigo-spiel.de). 
“No Thanks!”, and all other product titles and marks listed herein, are 
trademarks of Mayfair Games, Inc. 
 All rights reserved. 
If you have any damaged or missing parts, please contact us at 
custserv@mayfairgames.com – Mayfair Games, Inc.; Skokie, IL 
You can also call us at 1-847-677-6655.
MAYFAIRGAMES.COM