OVERVIEW
Players assume the roles of heads of influential families in Paris at the end of 
the 14th century. In the shadow of Notre Dame cathedral, players compete 
for prominence. 
Players maximize wealth and prestige using action cards to shrewdly influence 
the sectors in their boroughs. 
Adding influence to banks increases access to money; spending on residences 
increases prestige. In addition to playing action cards, each round players have 
the opportunity to hire service professionals to help. Players are presented with 
a myriad of alternatives, and must choose wisely. The most successful players 
will find just the right moment to take advantage of their opportunities.
The player with the most prestige at the end is the winner.
CONTENTS
 5 game board sections
 3 Notre Dame tiles (one of each: 3-sided, 4-sided, 5-sided)
45 action cards (one of the following in each of the 5 player
colors: hospital, residence, cloister school, hotel, bank, 
carriage house, park, Notre Dame, trusted friend)
15 person cards (6 brown and 9 gray)
70 influence markers (14 each in the 5 player colors)
 5 black markers (rat markers)
 5 trusted friends (1 each in the 5 player colors)
 5 carriages (1 each in the 5 player colors)
 1 bell-ringer (+ plastic stand = start player figure)
20 messages (octagonal; 4 each in the 5 player colors)
25 gold coins
84 prestige tokens (hexagonal)
OVERVIEW
The players take the roles of heads 
of important Parisian families.
Players use action cards to place 
influence markers in the various 
sectors of their boroughs in order 
to gain money, increase prestige, etc.
Players may also hire the services 
of professionals to help them.
The player with the most prestige 
points is the winner.
When reading these rules for the first time, ignore the bold text in the 
right-hand borders. These are game summaries to be used by those already 
familiar with the rules, as a quick reminder during game play.
Mastery and machinations in the shadow of the cathedral
Stefan Feld
For the "New Persons" expansion:
18 gray person cards (6 each of A, B, and C)
This game also contains the 12 playing cards from the "The Trading Routes" expansion 
for the "The Castles of Burgundy" board game. Remove these cards from this game. 
You can find the English instructions for the expansion on the website: www.aleaspiele.de.

PREPARATION
Before the first game, carefully remove the cardboard parts from their frames.
Place the bell-ringer in the plastic stand. 
Arrange the sections of the game board in the middle of the table as shown 
below, using the Notre Dame tile that corresponds with the number of players:
tQMBZFSTTJEFE
tQMBZFSTTJEFE(with the side showing four figures face up)
tQMBZFSTTJEFE
Note: The rules for a 2-player game are located 
on page 8.
Next, each player selects one game board 
section to be theirs, usually the one closest 
to where the player is sitting.
Place unused game board sections and Notre Dame 
tiles back in the box.
Sort the prestige point tokens by value and place them along with the gold 
coins as supplies next to the game board.
Each player chooses a color and takes (in that color):
tUIFtrusted friend, placed in the player’s play area,
tUIFcarriage, placed on the player’s market place in the center of their borough,
t4 influence markers, placed as a supply pile in the player’s play area,
t10 remaining influence markers, placed as general supply next to the game 
board,
t4 messages, shuffled and randomly placed face up, one on each of the four 
edges of the marketplaces of the player’s borough,
t9 action cards, shuffled and placed face down in the player’s play area as 
supply.
Each player also takes:
t3 gold coins from the supply, placing them in their play area.
t1 rat marker, placing it on space 0 of the plague track (0 to 9) in the harbor 
in the player’s borough.
Place unused material back in the box.
Prepare the person cards in the following manner:
t4IVðFUIF6 brown person cards (which have no letters on their backs) and 
place as a face down stack next to the game board. Each of these persons is 
available once in each period.
t4PSUUIF9 gray person cards according the the letters on their backs (A, B 
or C), shuffle each 3 card set, and place them as a single face down stack 
next to the person cards, so that the three C cards are on the bottom of the 
stack, the three B cards are in the middle of the stack, and the three A cards 
are on the top of the stack. Each of these persons will be available just once 
in the game.
The players choose a start player, who takes the bell-ringer.
PREPARATION
Arrange the game board based
on the number of players
Place prestige tokens and coins
next to the board as a supply
Each player takes
tUSVTUFEGSJFOE
tDBSSJBHF
tJOîVFODFNBSLFST
tNFTTBHFT
tBDUJPODBSET
tDPJOT
tSBUNBSLFS
Lay out the person cards:
tUIFCSPXODBSETBTa single face 
down stack
tUIFHSBZDBSETBTBOPSHBOJ[FE
face down stack (on top AAA, 
then BBB, at bottom CCC)
Start player takes the bell-ringer
5 players
3 players
e e
3 3 3 plplplplplp ay
ayerers
4 players
5 p
4 4 4 plplp ay
ayere s
plplplplplplp ay
ayerererererers

PLAYING THE GAME
The game is played over three periods (A, B, and C), each of which has three 
rounds. Each of the 9 rounds has five phases, played in the order shown below:
f Phase 1: Lay out person cards
To begin each round, players lay out 3 person cards, drawing the top 2 cards 
from the stack of brown person cards (without letters), as well as 1 card from 
the top of the stack of gray person cards (with letter). Place these 3 person 
cards face up next to the two card stacks.
f Phase 2: Choose action cards
First, each player draws the top three cards from their individual action card 
stack, looks at them, chooses one to keep and passes the other 2 face down 
to the player to the left. When all players have received passed cards, the 
players look at their two new cards, add one to their hand, and pass the other 
face down to the player to the left. Players then add this passed card to their 
hand.
It is important that players do not look at the card(s) they received from the 
players to their right until after they have passed cards. Also, players may not 
pass a card that they had already added to their hand, i.e. they must pass one 
of the two cards received from the player to the right. Players always keep 
their cards secret from the other players. 
Now each player has three action cards in their hand: one from their own 
stack of action cards, one from the player on the right, and one from the 
player sitting two places to their right. From these three cards, players choose 
two to use as actions in phase 3.
f Phase 3: Play action cards
Beginning with the start player and continuing clockwise, each player 
chooses one action card from their hand, places it face up in their play 
area, and executes the action on the card. After each player has played and 
executed their first action, each player (again starting with the start player 
and continuing clockwise) repeats this with a second action card from their 
hand.
Finally, players discard the action cards they played by placing them face 
up on a common discard stack. Note: each player’s third action card is 
not executed, but is instead simply discarded, hidden from other players 
underneath their second action card, onto the discard stack. Players are not 
allowed to look through cards in the discard stack!
- The nine different actions are described on pages 4 and 5.
f Phase 4: Hire a person
After all players have executed two and discarded all three action cards, each 
player may (in clockwise order, beginning with the start player) hire one of 
the three face up people to perform a special action once. The cost to hire 
any person is one gold coin, paid to the supply. After paying a gold coin, the 
player uses the special ability of the hired person. If a player has no coins, or 
does not want to hire a person, the player may pass. Note: a person may be 
hired by more than one player (or even all players).
- The abilities of the fifteen persons are described from page 9 on.
PLAYING THE GAME
The game has three periods; each 
period has three rounds; each 
round has five phases
f 1st Phase:
Lay out 3 person cards: 
two brown 
and one gray
f 2nd Phase:
Draw three action cards: keep one 
and pass the other two to your 
left neighbor
From the two new cards, keep one 
and pass the other to your left 
neighbor
Now, each player has three 
different colored cards
f 3rd Phase:
In clockwise order, execute two of 
the three action cards
The third action card is discarded, 
but not used
f 4th Phase:
In clockwise order, hire one of 
the three face up persons, paying 
one gold coin to the supply and 
executing the action of the hired 
person once
the first card
the second and third
card together

f Phase 5: Determine plague value
In the last phase of each round, players determine who paid attention to the 
health of those in their borough, and who did not. Plague values are totaled 
and players move their rat marker along their plague track the number of 
spaces determined by the plague value plus or minus adjustments.
At the end of each round, players place their three face up person cards on 
the corresponding stack. The start player gives the bell-ringer to the player 
to the left, who becomes the new start player. A new round begins. The new 
round plays the same as the previous: first phase 1, then phase 2, and so on 
through 3, 4, and 5.
At the end of each third round, there is a pause for:
tTDPSJOHPGUIFJOìVFODFNBSLFSTJO/PUSF%BNF(for the complete explanation, 
see page 6: “Notre Dame”);
tTIVðJOHUIFTJYCSPXOQFSTPODBSETBOEQMBDJOHUIFNGBDFEPXOBTBstack;
tTPSUJOHBMMBDUJPODBSETCZDPMPSBOESFUVSOJOHUIFNUPUIFJSPXOFST1MBZFST
shuffle their cards and place them face down in their play areas.
GAME END
After the end of the ninth round, the influence markers in Notre Dame are 
scored and the game ends. The player with the most prestige points is the 
winner. If players tie for the most, then the player among them with the most 
total gold coins and influence markers in their personal supply is the winner.
The Action Cards
Cloister school: Players executing this action place one influence marker from 
their personal supply onto the cloister school sector of their borough. Players 
then take from the general supply the number of their influence markers equal 
to the number of markers currently in their cloister school sector, adding the 
influence markers to their individual supply. Influence markers must be visible 
to all players.
If there are not enough of a player’s influence markers in the general supply, the player takes 
only what is there, and thus does not get the full advantage of the action.
Example: Peggy plays the cloister school action card. She takes one influence marker 
from her play area, and places it in the cloister school sector of her borough (where she 
already had 2 influence markers), giving her 3 influence markers there. Peggy takes 
three of her influence markers from the general supply, placing them in her play area. 
If she later places another influence marker in the cloister school, she would be able to 
take 4 influence markers from the general supply, placing them in her play area.
Bank: Players executing this action place one influence marker from their 
personal supply onto the bank sector of their borough. Players then take from 
the general supply the number of gold coins equal to the number of influence 
markers currently in their bank sector. The gold must be visible to all players.
If there is an insufficient number of gold coins in the supply, take the missing coin(s) from the 
player with the most money.
Residence: Players executing this action place one influence marker from their 
personal supply onto the residence sector of their borough. Players then take 
from the general supply the number of prestige tokens equal to the number of 
influence markers currently in their residence sector.
Unlike with influence markers and gold coins, players do not need to keep their prestige 
tokens (or their values) visible to other players. They should instead stack them in their play 
areas so their total remains hidden. Players should exchange small valued markers for larger 
ones from time to time.
f 5th Phase:
Determine plague value and
move rat markers
After every round, put the face up 
person cards under their stacks and 
move the bell-ringer
After every three rounds
tTDPSFUIFJOîVFODFNBSLFSTJO
Notre Dame
tTIVðFUIFCSPXOQFSTPODBSET
tSFUVSOUIFBDUJPODBSETUPUIFJS
owners
GAME END
The player with the most prestige 
points is the winner!
Cloister School:
+ influence markers
Bank:
+ gold coins
Residence:
+ prestige points

Carriage house: Players executing this action place one influence marker 
from their personal supply onto the carriage house sector of their borough. 
Players then move their carriage from marketplace to marketplace (of theirs 
or that of any player) any number of times up to the number of influence 
markers currently in their carriage house sector.
The carriage always moves along the streets from one marketplace 
to the next (i.e. a carriage cannot stop on a street or in any sector in a 
borough; it may stop only at a marketplace). 
Several carriages may stop at the same marketplace, however. Also, players 
may choose to stop earlier, i.e. they need not move their carriage the full 
movement allowed. If the marketplace where the carriage stops has a message 
(octagonal token), the player may take the token and immediately use its 
power: either
tUBLFQSFTUJHFQPJOUand 1 coin or
tUBLFQSFTUJHFQPJOUTand 1 influence marker or
tUBLFQSFTUJHFQPJOUTand the option to move 
their rat marker 1 space back on the rat track or
tUBLFQSFTUJHFQPJOUT
Players place collected message tokens face down 
in their play area. Players may not collect a second 
message of any color until they have collected a 
full set (i.e. one of every color in the game). In the 
same way, players may not collect a third message of one 
color until they have 2 full sets, etc. 
The only exception to this rule occurs when there are no messages 
left on the board of the color needed to complete a set. In this 
case, the player need not collect the missing color.
Example: Red, violet, yellow and green messages are being 
played. Leo has already collected a violet, green and red message. 
The next message Leo must collect is yellow.
Hotel: Players executing this action place one influence marker from their 
personal supply onto the hotel sector of their borough. If a player now has 
1 or 2 influence markers in the hotel, the player may either take 1 gold coin 
from the general supply, or take 1 influence marker from the general supply, 
or move their rat marker back 1 space on the rat track (e.g. from space 4 to 3). 
A player with a rat marker on space 0 may not take this option.
If the player has 3 or more influence markers in their hotel, the player gets 
two bonuses (either taking two different bonuses, or the same one twice).
Example: Mike executes the hotel action card and adds his influence marker to the one 
influence marker already on his hotel space, giving him two. Then, he takes one gold 
coin from the supply. Of course, he could have taken one of his influence markers from 
the general supply or moved his rat marker back on his rat track instead. If Mike adds 
yet another influence marker to the hotel, making the total there three, he can then take, 
for example, 2 influence markers or two gold coins, or one influence marker and one 
gold coin, or one gold coin and move his rat marker back one space on the rat track, or ...
Trusted friend: Players executing this action place no influence markers. 
Instead, players place their trusted friend in any of the seven sectors in their 
borough (not the harbor; this is never a "sector"!). The first time taking this 
action, players place the friend onto the borough (in any of the seven sectors); 
on subsequent turns, players move their trusted friend to a different sector. 
Next, players execute the action associated with the sector on which the trusted 
friend sits, just as though the player had placed an influence marker there.
Carriage House:
move carriage (cumula-
tive) and collect different 
colored message tokens
Example 1:
With his first carriage move, Mike (yellow) 
moves his carriage to the marketplace with 
the red token: “2 prestige points + 1 influence 
marker” and takes the red message token. 
Next, he places a second influence marker in 
his carriage house and can move his 
carriage up to 2 marketplaces away. 
Mike’s yellow carriage can now reach 
all of the marketplaces marked with 
a yellow “X”. It is not legal 
for Mike to take a red 
token, but all 
other colors are 
legal and 
within 
reach 
of his 
carriage.
Example 2:
When Peggy (green) is next able to move her 
carriage to a new marketplace, she should 
select one of the two marketplaces marked 
with a green “X” since both have tokens. 
Peggy could also move her green carriage to 
one of the marketplaces with a dashed green 
“X”, but none of these have message tokens 
that she could take.
Hotel:
either 1 coin or 
1 influence marker 
or move the rat marker 
1 space back on the rat 
track (if there are 3 or 
more influence markers, 
take 2 bonuses)
Trusted friend:
place in any sector and 
take the associated 
action
r
d
e 
e e ofofof one
essssag
agesese 
hisis
ing 
message.
hihihihih s s cacacacacarrrrrrrriaiaiai gegegegegege hou
o sesesesese and
nd
nd
nd can
an m
cacacac rrrrrrrrrriaiaiaiaiagegegegegeg up totototo 2 mararararkekekeketptptptptptplalalalalalacecececece
M kekekekekek ’s’s’s’s yelelelelelellolololololow 
w cacacacacarrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr iaiaiaiaiaiaiagegegegegegegegeg can
a now
o
alalalalalala l l l l l ofofofofofof the
he marararararararararkekekekekekeketptptptptptplalalalalalalalacecececececes s s s s s ma
m r
a a a yeyeyeyeyey llllllllllllllow
ow “X”
X . ItItItItItItItItIt is s s no
fofofofofofofofor r r Mi
M kekekekekekeke to o o o tatatatatatata
tototototot kekekekekeken,n,n,n,n, b
otototototototothe
h r
lelelelelelelel ga
g
E am
amplplplplplplplple e e e 2:2:2:2:
When
e Pegegegegegegeggygygygygygygy (grgrgrgrgrg eeeeeeeee n)
n)
n)
n) is s s s s ne
n xtxtxtxtxtxtxtxtx ablblblblb e e tototototototot
cacacacarrrrrrrrrriaiaiaiaiai gegegegegegege to o o o a a a a a ne
new 
w ma
markrkrkrkrkrketetetetetetplplplplplplplp acacacace,e,e,e,e, she
h
seseseseses lelelelelelelectctctctct one
ne of f f f f ththththththe e e e e tw
t o o o o ma
markrkrkrkrkrkrkr etetetetplplplplplplplp acacacacaceseseseses m
withthththththth a grerereen
en “X”
X” sininininincececececececece bototototototo h h h ha
havevevevevev to
Peggggggggggggggggggggy y y y cococococoululululululu d d d d alalalalalalalalalsososososososo mov
o e e e e e he
h r r r r grgrgrgrgrg eeeeeeeee n n n cacacacacacacar
one e e ofofofofofofof the
he mararararara kekekekekekek tptptptptptptptplalalalalalalalalalacecececececececes s s s wi
w ththththththth a dasasasasasasasa h
“X”,”,”,”, bututututututut non
one e e e ofofofofofofof the
h sesese hav
ave e me
m ssssssssssssssag
age
thththththththththatatatatatatatata she
h cou
ouldldldldldldld tak
ake.e.e.e

Example: Bill plays the trusted friend card and places his trusted friend on his bank sector; 
as the sector already had two influence markers, Bill takes three gold coins from the supply.
Note: The trusted friend counts as an influence marker in the sector. Thus, when a 
player executes an action whose effect is based on the number of influence markers in 
a sector, the player counts the trusted friend, if it is there, as an influence marker.
Park: Players executing this action place one influence marker from their 
personal supply onto the park sector of their borough. Players then move their 
rat marker one space back on the plague track (regardless of the number of 
influence markers in the park). If the player’s rat marker is already on 0, the 
player does not move the marker.
Having influence markers in the park will add bonus points to the number 
of prestige points a player gets during the game. For each 2 (rounded down) 
influence markers in the park, a player earns 1 additional prestige point every 
time the player does something in the game to earn prestige points.
A player with one influence marker in the park earns no bonus points; for 2 or 3 markers in 
the park, earn one bonus point; for 4 or 5, earn 2 points, etc.
Example:
1) Scott places a second influence marker in his park. He moves his rat marker back 
one space on his plague track, and that is all. He earns no bonus prestige points as he 
earned no prestige points for this action.
2) A bit later, Scott places a third influence marker in his residence, earning 3 prestige 
points for the 3 influence markers there + 1 bonus point for the park (2 influence 
markers there) = 4 prestige points.
3) Scott hires the advocate (see page 10). Since he has collected 5 messages, he earns 
6 prestige points (for the advocate) + 1 bonus point (for the park) = 7 prestige points.
4) A few rounds later, Scott now has 5 influence markers in the park. He executes a 
Notre Dame card (see below) and donates two gold coins. He earns 3 prestige points 
(for the donation) + 2 bonus points (for the park) = 5 prestige points.
5) At the end of the ninth round, Scott has 6 influence markers in the park. For his 
2 influence markers in Notre Dame (see below), he earns 6 prestige points + 3 bonus 
points (for the park) = 9 prestige points.
Hospital: Players executing this action place one influence marker from their 
personal supply onto the hospital sector of their borough. Players then move 
their rat marker one space back on the plague track (regardless of the number 
of influence markers in the hospital). If the player’s rat marker is already on 0, 
the player does not move the marker.
With influence markers in the hospital, players can reduce the effect of
plague in phase 5 (for a complete description, see “The Plague” below).
Notre Dame: Players executing this action place one influence marker from 
their personal supply onto the Notre Dame sector in the middle. Players 
then must donate at least one and at most three gold coins to the church, 
taking them from their play area and placing them into the supply. Players 
earn prestige points as follows: 1 coin = 1 prestige point; 2 coins = 3 prestige 
points, and 3 coins = 6 prestige points. 
Players who cannot or choose not to donate gold may still play the card, but 
may not place an influence marker on Notre Dame. Players may not donate 
more than 3 coins, nor may they place more than 1 influence marker, when 
executing this action. Players may execute the action as often as they can 
during a round or a period, and donate and place influence markers per the 
above limits each time.
Important note: At the end of each period (after every 3 rounds), players
with influence markers on Notre Dame earn prestige points for the markers
Park:
move rat marker one 
space back 
 
For each 2 influence
markers in the park: 
the player always earns 
one bonus prestige 
point 
Hospital:
move rat marker one 
space back 
 
reduces the effect of 
plague (5th phase)
Notre Dame:
1/2/3 coins donated and 
1/3/6 prestige points 
received
(+ further prestige 
points at the end of
the period)
At the end of each period:
prestige points (6/8/10/12) 
distributed amongst those with 
influence markers on Notre Dame
Return all influence markers to the 
general supply

they have there. The players distribute the number of prestige points shown
on Notre Dame (6, 8, 10 or 12) equally among the influence markers there. 
The players simply divide the number of prestige points to be distributed by 
the number of influence markers on Notre Dame and round the result down. 
Each player with influence markers on Notre Dame now takes this number 
of prestige points from the supply for each influence marker that the player 
has on Notre Dame. After all these players have received their share of the 
prestige points, all influence markers on Notre Dame are returned to the 
general supply.
Example: In a game with 4 players, there are 10 prestige points to distribute from Notre 
Dame. At the end of a period, there are 1 blue and 2 green influence markers in Notre 
Dame. The players divide 10 by 3 and thus allocate 3 prestige points to each influence 
marker in Notre Dame. Green earns 6 points and blue earns 3. Then all three markers 
are returned to the general supply.
No influence markers in a player’s supply?
If players execute an action but have no influence markers in their supply, 
they may choose to move an influence marker (not their trusted friend) from 
any other sector (or from Notre Dame) to the sector corresponding to the 
executed action.
In other words, in order to execute an action, players must place one influence 
marker in the corresponding sector (either from their personal supply or, if 
that is empty, from some other place on the board, but never from the general 
supply).
Example: Peggy wants to execute the Notre Dame card, but has no influence markers in 
her supply. She chooses to move an influence marker from her hospital to Notre Dame so 
she can execute the action. She chooses an amount to donate and takes the prestige points. 
The Plague
As the fifth and last phase in each round, players determine the plague value, 
and move the plague marker along their plague tracks accordingly. The plague 
value equals the sum of the rats pictured on the 3 person cards for this round. 
Thus, players know at the beginning of the round what effect the plague will 
have and can take actions to reduce the effect if they so choose. Each player 
moves their rat marker forward on their plague track in their harbor sector 
the number of spaces equal to the sum of the rats pictured on the cards. Every 
player is subject to the same plague effect, whether or not they hired a person, 
but each player may reduce that effect if they have taken actions to do so. 
If players have their trusted friend or influence marker(s) in the hospital, they 
reduce the amount of the plague effect (for themselves only) by the number of
influence markers plus the trusted friend, if it is there. The player actually
subtracts the amount of the reduction from the plague amount before moving 
the rat marker. By doing so, it is possible for the player to reach a negative 
number and, therefore, move their rat marker backwards (but never below 0) 
on the rat track, instead of forward.
Example: In a game with 3 players, the plague value for a round is 2 + 0 + 1 = 3.
t"OOBIBTJOîVFODFNBSLFSTJOIFSIPTQJUBM)FSSBUNBSLFSJTPOTQBDF"OOB
moves her rat marker one space forward (3 - 2) to space 5.
t4DPUUIBTOPJOîVFODFNBSLFSTJOIJTIPTQJUBM)JTSBUNBSLFSJTPOTQBDF4DPUU
moves his rat marker 3 spaces forward (3 - 0) to space 9.
t.JLFIBTJOîVFODFNBSLFSTBOEIJTUSVTUFEGSJFOEJOIJTIPTQJUBM)JTSBUNBSLFSJT
on space 5. Mike moves his rat marker back one space (3 - 4) to space 4. 
Green = 6 prestige points
Blue = 3 prestige points
Players with no influence markers 
in their supply may move one from 
another sector in their borough
The sum of the rats pictured on the 
3 person cards is the plague value 
for this round
Players move their rat markers for-
ward based on the plague value ...
... reduced by the number of 
influence markers (and trusted 
friend) in their hospital
n.
tre 
e
s 
G eeeeeeeeeen = 6 6 6 6 6 6 prprprprprprprp esesesestitititit gegegegegege poioioioioioiointntntntntntn s
B ue
u = 3 3 3 prprprprprprp esesesesesesesestititititigegegegegeg poioioioiointntntntntntntntn s
plague value = 3

Gradually, the players’ rat markers move forward, some more quickly than
others. Whenever a player would have to move their rat marker beyond space 
9 (the number of spaces beyond doesn´t matter!), the following occurs:
tɨFQMBZFSQMBDFTUIFJSSBUNBSLFSPOTQBDFPGUIFJSSBUUSBDL(never further). 
tɨFQMBZFSSFUVSOTQSFTUJHFQPJOUTGSPNUIFJSQMBZBSFBUPUIFTVQQMZ
tɨFQMBZFSSFNPWFTJOìVFODFNBSLFSGSPNUIFTFDUPSXJUIUIFmost 
influence markers and returns it to the general supply.
The trusted friend is counted when determining the sector with the most influence markers, 
but may not be removed. If sectors tie for the most, the player chooses one.
Example: In the 5th phase of the next round after the above example, the new plague 
value is 7.
t"OOBTUJMMIBTJOîVFODFNBSLFSTJOIFSIPTQJUBM)FSSBUNBSLFSJTPOTQBDF
Anna moves her rat marker 5 spaces forward (7 - 2), but stops at space 9, as she 
cannot go past 9. As she was to move her rat marker past space 9, she also returns 2 
prestige points to the supply and removes 1 influence marker from her sector with the 
most, returning it to the general supply.
t4DPUUTUJMMIBTOPJOîVFODFNBSLFSTJOIJTIPTQJUBM)JTSBUNBSLFSJTPOTQBDF4DPUU
should move his rat marker 7 spaces forward (7 - 0), but remains on space 9 as he 
cannot go past 9. As he was to move his rat marker past space 9, he also returns 2 
prestige points to the supply and removes 1 influence marker from his sector with the 
most, returning it to the general supply.
t.JLFOPXIBTKVTUJOîVFODFNBSLFSBOEIJTUSVTUFEGSJFOEJOIJTIPTQJUBM)JTSBU
marker is on space 4. Mike moves his rat marker forward 5 spaces (7 - 2) to space 9.
THE 2-PLAYER GAME
Preparation
Set up the board as for the 4-player game, but with the Notre Dame tile 
showing the side with 2 figures (= 6 prestige points per period). Each player 
takes one of the four boroughs, but the two chosen must be directly opposite 
each other. Proceed as described on page 2, “Preparation.”
Note: In the two unassigned boroughs, the players place the messages for 
two unused colors, but do not place a carriage in that color. When collecting 
messages, a player must collect all four colors used in the game (the 2 player's 
colors + the 2 others) before collecting a second of any one of the colors, and 
so on.
Playing the game
All rules remain the same as for the 3-5 player game, except: in the 2nd phase, 
pass two cards to the other player, then get one back. Thus, each player has 2 
cards of their own color, and one card from their opponent.
 
Whenever a player would move 
their marker beyond space 9, the 
player:
tQMBDFTUIFJSSBUNBSLFSPOTQBDF
tMPTFTQSFTUJHFQPJOUT
tSFUVSOTJOîVFODFNBSLFSUPUIF
general supply (from sector with 
the most)
Note: Each and every round, a new 
plague value will affect each player’s 
position on their rat track. If a 
player neglects the health of their 
sector, their rat will move forward 
on the track more quickly. In every 
round that a player’s rat marker 
would move beyond the 9 on the 
rat track, the player loses 1 influence 
marker and 2 prestige points.
While this penalty does not 
guarantee the player will lose, it 
certainly does not help their cause! 
Use the layout for 4 players, but 
with the tile placed so it shows 
2 figures face up
Players play opposite boroughs 
and place 16 messages (4x4)
Each player first passes two cards, 
then gets one back.

The six brown cards (no letter on the back)
THE PERSON CARDS
When hiring the hostess, players take 3 
prestige points and either 1 gold coin or 
1 influence marker from the supply or 
move their rat marker one space back.
When hiring the minstrel, players 
move 1-3 influence markers (eventually 
including their trusted friend) from 
any one sector to any one other sector 
in their borough (not Notre Dame). 
Players do not execute the action 
associated with the new sector. 
When hiring the monk, players take 2 
influence markers and 1 prestige point 
from the supply.
When hiring the fool, players move any 
one influence marker (or their trusted 
friend) from a sector or Notre Dame 
to any other sector in their borough 
(not in Notre Dame!) and executes the 
Example: Peggy hires the fool. She moves 1 
of her influence markers from her bank to 
her carriage house. Since she already had 2 
influence markers there, she can now move 
her carriage up to 3 marketplaces and take the 
message she finds there.
When hiring the money lender, players 
take 2 gold coins and 1 prestige point 
from the supply.
When hiring the doctor, players reduce 
the plague value for themselves only for 
this round to 0, regardless of its calcu-
lated value.
If players have influence markers and/
or their trusted friend in their hospital, 
they move their rat marker back on the 
rat track as many spaces as they have 
tokens in the hospital.
Example: The plague value is 2 + 3 + 1 = 6. 
Mike hired the Doctor this round and, thus, 
reduces the plague value for himself to 0. As 
Mike also has 1 influence marker and his 
trusted friend in his hospital, he moves his rat 
marker back 2 spaces from space 7 to space 5. 
If he had not hired the Doctor, he would have 
had to move his rat marker past space 9 (7 +
6 - 2 = 11) and to take the penalties associated 
with that move.
General info for all person cards:
the period for the gray cards 
(period A, B, or C)
the picture of the person
the service received when
one hires the person
rats for plague value

The nine gray cards (A, B, or C on their backs)
The three cards for period A
When hiring the city guard, players 
take one prestige point for each influ-
ence marker (and their trusted friend) 
in each of their 7 sectors and in Notre 
Dame.
When hiring the night watchman, 
players take one prestige point for each 
empty sector in their borough. To be 
empty, a sector can have no influence 
markers and no trusted friend.
The harbor and Notre Dame are not included.
When hiring the bishop, players take 
supply, and place it in any empty sector 
in their borough (not Notre Dame) and 
execute the corresponding action.
The three cards for period B
When hiring the advocate, players 
take three prestige points for each two 
messages they have collected so far.
Example: Peggy has collected 5 messages. 
She earns 2 x 3 = 6 prestige points.
When hiring the beggar king, players 
take one prestige point for each space 
beyond their rat marker. 
Example: Leo´s rat marker is on space 4 of his 
plague track. He earns 5 prestige points (for the 
five spaces 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9).
When hiring the guild master, players 
take two prestige points for each of their 
seven sectors (not including Notre Dame) 
where they have at least two influence 
markers (including their trusted friend).
The three cards for period C
When hiring the Lady of the Court, 
players take one prestige point for each 
influence marker in the sector in their 
borough that has the most influence 
markers (including the trusted friend).
Example: In both Anna’s carriage house and 
her guest house she has 5 influence markers, 
which tie for the most in any sector. Anna 
earns 5 prestige points.
When hiring the mayor, players take 
three prestige points for each of their 
seven sectors (not including Notre 
Dame) in which they have at least three 
influence markers (including the trusted 
friend).
When hiring the carpenter, players take 
one prestige point for each of their seven 
sectors (not including Notre Dame) in 
which they have at least one influence 
marker (or trusted friend).

EXPANSION: NEW PERSONS 
18 new person cards (6 each of gray A, B, and C)
Play the game using the original rules except for the exceptions listed here. 
Change the game set up as follows: Sort the 27 gray cards by the letters on the back: A, B, and C. Shuffle the 3 sets 
of 9 cards and randomly select 3 from each stack. Turn these cards face up for all players to see, and place the other 
18 cards back in the box. Shuffle the 3 cards from each set, then place them in face down stacks, in letter order, as in 
the original game (A’s on top, B’s in the middle, C’s on the bottom).
Now the game can begin!
The six cards for period A
When hiring the manager, players 
double their prestige points. Thus, players 
immediately take the number of prestige 
points (from the supply) as they currently 
have, thereby doubling their total.
When hiring the nurse, players take 
supply, place it in their hospital, 
and move their rat marker one space 
backwards.
When hiring the scholar, players imme-
diately execute their third action card. 
Thus, when this person is available, players 
keep their third action cards face down in their 
play areas, and discard them after phase 4.
The six cards for period B
When hiring the priest, players take
supply and place it onto the central 
Notre Dame sector. Nothing else 
happens.
When hiring the procurator, players 
execute the action of any one of their 
seven sectors according to the influence 
markers (incl. the trusted friend) in it.
When hiring the bell-ringer, players 
take three prestige points for each 
influence marker of their color on the 
central Notre Dame sector.
When hiring the spy, players may look 
at all remaining gray person cards in the 
stack (without changing their order!), 
and also take 2 prestige points.
When hiring the gypsies, players may 
return any number of their influence 
markers (not the trusted friend) from 
the board back to the general supply. 
For each returned marker, players take 
2 prestige points.
When hiring the coachman, players 
may use all messages they have collected 
of one type. 
Example: Anna has collected the following 5 
messages: 2 of “4 PP”, 2 of “2 PP + 1 marker”, 
and 1 of “1 PP + 1 coin”. Anna can take 
either 8 PP or 4 PP and 2 markers or 1 PP 
and 1 coin.

Do you have comments or questions about this game? Contact us:
3BWFOTCVSHFS64"*OD]1V[[MF-BOF]/FXUPO/)
E-Mail: info@aleaspiele.de | www.aleaspiele.de
© 2007/17 Ravensburger Spieleverlag
234 956
When hiring the butcher, players 
place one influence marker from the 
general supply into each empty sector 
in their borough. The corresponding 
actions are not executed.
When hiring the benefactor, players 
may return any number of gold coins to 
the supply. For each returned coin they 
may move their rat marker one place 
backwards (but never below 0).
When hiring the trader, players take 
1 gold coin from the supply for each 
of their marketplaces that don’t have 
message tokens on it.
The six cards for period C
When hiring the host, players take 2 
prestige points for each influence marker 
in their hotel (including the trusted 
friend).
When hiring the gravedigger, players 
take prestige points from the supply, the 
number of points corresponding to the 
current plague value.
When hiring the actress, players move 
all influence markers (incl. their trusted 
friend) from a sector (not Notre Dame) 
to any other sector in their borough 
(not Notre Dame!) and execute the 
When hiring the advisor, players may 
hire two additional persons (each costs 
one coin!). Players may either hire 
one other person twice, or both other 
persons once. Players may not hire the 
advisor again!
When hiring the guard, players take 
3 prestige points for each 2 of their 
influence markers in the general supply.
Example: Leo has 5 influence markers in the 
general supply and thus takes 6 prestige points.
When hiring the mistress, players take 
supply, place it in the sector with 
their trusted friend, and execute the 
(If the trusted friend is not yet in the borough, 
the mistress evokes no action.)