The clever tile laying game 
from Uwe Rosenberg
for 1 - 4 players.
The game is based on an idea 
by Corné van Moorsel.
THE GAME MATERIAL
CREDITS
1 Moon Wheel
1 Meeple
84 tokens 
(21 tokens each in the 
4 player colors)
1 Rulebook
68 tiles in 4 colors 
(17 tiles each)
THE AIM OF THE GAME
Your goal is to be the first to place all of your tokens. Each time you complete a task on one of your 
tiles, you may place a token on it.
First, we describe the rules of the game for 2-4 players. The solo rules can be found on page 6.
The moon has its influence over our life on earth for ages. It affects the tides and keeps people wake at night. 
The new moon is a symbol for a new start; it is the perfect time to start something new and to plan your future. And that is, what Nova Luna 
(lat. for new moon) is all about. In every round of this abstract tile-laying game you have to plan your future anew. Develop a new strategy 
in order to cope with what the moon wheel has to offer you. Decide wisely!
Author: Uwe Rosenberg
Co-author: Corné van Moorsel
Realization: Lars Frauenrath
Editing and Support: Michael Schmitt
Localization: T.R. Knight
Simon-Dach-Str. 21
Distribution:	
 
Pegasus Spiele GmbH, 
61169 Friedberg, Germany 
Ersatzteilservice: 
Du hast ein Qualitätsprodukt gekauft. Falls ein 
Bestandteil fehlt oder ein anderer Anlass zur 
Reklamation besteht, wende dich bitte an: 
https://www.pegasus.de/verlag/service/
ersatzteile/ Wir wünschen dir viele un-
terhaltsame Stunden mit diesem Spiel. 
Dein Pegasus-Spiele-Team.
Das clevere Anlegespiel 
von Uwe Rosenberg
für 1 - 4 Spieler.
Das Spiel basiert auf einer Idee 
von Corné van Moorsel.
DAS SPIELMATERIAL
IMPRESSUM
1 Auswahltableau
1 Spielfigur
84 Spielmarken 
(je 21 Spielmarken 
in den 4 Spielerfarben)
1 Spielanleitung
68 Plättchen in 4 Farben 
(je 17 Plättchen)
DAS ZIEL DES SPIELS
Euer Ziel ist es, als erstes alle eure 20 Spielmarken zu platzieren. Jedes Mal, wenn ihr eine Aufgabe 
auf einem eurer Plättchen erfüllt, dürft ihr eine Spielmarke darauf platzieren.
Wir beschreiben zunächst die Spielregeln für 2-4 Spieler. Die Soloregeln findet ihr auf Seite X.
Autor: Uwe Rosenberg
Co-Autor: Corné van Moorsel
Realisation: Lars Frauenrath
Lektorat und Support: Michael Schmitt
Kopernikusstr. 24
Vertrieb: Pegasus Spiele GmbH, 
61169 Friedberg, Germany, 
Das clevere Anlegespiel 
von Uwe Rosenberg
für 1 - 4 Spieler.
Das Spiel basiert auf einer Idee 
von Corné van Moorsel.
DAS SPIELMATERIAL
IMPRESSUM
1 Auswahltableau
1 Spielfigur
84 Spielmarken 
(je 21 Spielmarken 
in den 4 Spielerfarben)
1 Spielanleitung
68 Plättchen in 4 Farben 
(je 17 Plättchen)
DAS ZIEL DES SPIELS
Euer Ziel ist es, als erstes alle eure 20 Spielmarken zu platzieren. Jedes Mal, wenn ihr eine Aufgabe 
auf einem eurer Plättchen erfüllt, dürft ihr eine Spielmarke darauf platzieren.
Wir beschreiben zunächst die Spielregeln für 2-4 Spieler. Die Soloregeln findet ihr auf Seite X.
Autor: Uwe Rosenberg
Co-Autor: Corné van Moorsel
Realisation: Lars Frauenrath
Lektorat und Support: Michael Schmitt
Kopernikusstr. 24
Vertrieb: Pegasus Spiele GmbH, 
61169 Friedberg, Germany, 

Place the Moon Wheel in the middle of the table so that everyone 
can reach it easily.
Place the Meeple on the space above the golden field of the outer 
selection track (above the new moon).
Shuffle all tiles face down and place 1 randomly drawn tile face up 
on each of the remaining 11 spaces.
Form any number of draw piles from the remaining tiles and place 
them face down around the Moon Wheel.
Select your player color. Take the 21 tokens of your color.
Important: If this is your first game of Nova Luna, we recom-
mend reducing the number of tokens. With 3 players, take 
18 instead of 21 tokens, and with 4 players, take 16 instead of 
21 tokens.
Now determine the preliminary game order. To do this, each play-
er places 1 token from their personal supply in the middle of the 
table; the person who slept the latest draws the tokens blindly un-
til they are all drawn. Form a pile out of them in the order in which 
they were drawn: the first token drawn is placed at the bottom, 
the next token is placed on it, and so on. Set this pile on the new 
moon of the moon track.
Important: You do not play in clockwise order!
The tokens on the moon track will show you the order of play at all 
times. It is always the turn of the player whose token is furthest 
back on the moon track. If several tokens share the 
rearmost position, it is the player’s turn whose token 
is at the top.
The tiles all have the same structure. 
They are available in 4 different colors: red, blue, turquoise, and 
yellow.
At the top left of the tile is a number (from 1—7) indicating the 
„time“ it costs you to take a tile and place it.
In the other corners, there are tasks (0-3 tasks depending on the 
tile), which you can complete by placing additional tiles. To com-
plete a task, the color of the adjacent tiles must match the colors 
of the task. 
Important: It is permissible to place tiles whose frame color 
does not match any task of the adjacent tile. This is usually not 
recommended, but cannot always be prevented.
THE GAME STRUCTURE
THE ORDER OF PLAY
THE TILES

As the game progresses, you take tiles from the Moon Wheel and 
place them in your display, trying to complete your tasks.
How do you take the tiles?
You take the tiles from the selection track of the Moon Wheel. You 
always have access to the next three tiles in a clockwise order, as 
seen from the Meeple. Spaces where there is no tile left are igno-
red; they are not counted. Then place the Meeple on the space 
from which you took the tile.
•	 Any tiles you take must be placed immediately. It is not per-
missible to take a tile in order to put it in the display later (or 
not at all).
•	 Every time it‘s your turn, you have to take a tile. It is not per-
missible to skip selecting a tile.
Filling the selection track
If at the beginning of your turn there are only one or two tiles left 
on the selection track, you may fill all empty spaces with one ran-
domly drawn tile each. Take the tiles from the draw piles and place 
them face up on the selection track. Always fill the space closest to 
the Meeple in a clockwise order first; fill the spaces further clockwi-
se from here.
If there is no tile left on the selection track at the beginning of your 
turn, you must fill all the empty spaces. In this case, too, start with 
The game ends when the first player manages to place all their 
tokens on their tiles. This player wins. The game also ends when 
a player cannot take any more tiles, as all the tiles have been laid 
out. In this case, the player with the fewest remaining tokens wins.
the space closest to the Meeple in a clockwise order and continue 
to fill the spaces clockwise from here.
If the tiles in the stock are not sufficient, fill up the selection track as 
much as possible.
How are the tokens advanced on the moon track?
Whenever you take a tile, you must move your token on the moon 
track forward as many spaces as the number on the tile indica-
tes. Always move your token in a clockwise order. If you reach 
an occupied space, place your token on top of the other player 
token(s).
Don‘t forget: It is always the turn of the player whose token is 
furthest back. If several players share the backmost space, it is the 
turn of the player whose token is at the top.
When can you place tokens on your tiles?
Whenever you complete a task as described above, you may cover 
it with a token from your personal supply. Since the tiles have up to 
three tasks, you can place as many tokens on them as it has tasks.
•	 Each tile can be used for any task, as long as the neighbor-
hood rules are followed (see examples 4 and 8). Therefore, it 
doesn‘t matter if the tasks are no longer recognisable once 
you have covered them.
The remaining places will depend on the number of tokens you 
still have in your personal stock. The fewer tokens, the better.
In case of a tie, the player with the fewest tokens remaining that 
would have taken the next turn wins the game.
THE END
THE COURSE OF THE GAME

How do you place the tiles?
Place the first tile you take in this game in front of you. As you 
progress through the game, always place exactly 1 tile horizontally 
or vertically adjacent to a tile you have already placed. Tiles are 
always placed with their task side face up.
•	 Everyone builds their own display. So make sure that each of 
you has enough room.
•	 It doesn‘t matter how and if you turn your tiles. It is best to 
always place them in such a way that the number is at the 
top left.
The number
Whenever you take a tile, the number at the top left of the tile 
indicates by how many spaces you need to advance your token 
on the moon track (smaller values potentially allow you more ac-
tions). If the space on which you must place your token is occu-
pied, place it on top of the existing token(s).
The tasks
Tiles can contain zero to three tasks. The tasks are located in 
the three remaining spaces of the tile and must be considered 
separately from each other. Each task includes 1 to 4 colors. 
A task is fulfilled if the colors shown correspond to the four hor-
izontally or vertically adjacent tiles’ colors—in the frequency in 
which they are represented in the task. There is one special fea-
ture: A neighboring color counts double if this tile has a neigh-
boring tile of the same color. This can be continued as desired: 
Count all horizontally or vertically adjacent tiles of the same color 
together. All these tiles will help you complete a task if at least one 
of them is adjacent to the task’s tile. But be careful: The color of 
the tile on which the task is written never counts!
Important: The arrangement of the colors within the task is ir-
relevant. Matching the right colors in the right amount is the 
only objective in order to complete a task. 
Some examples of how to complete tasks:
The yellow tile has the task “2 Blue” among others. This task can 
be accomplished with 2 blue tiles, both adjacent to the yellow 
starting tile (example 1), but also with 2 adjacent blue tiles, only 
one of which is adjacent to the yellow starting tile (example 2). Ex-
ample 2 also shows that there is no diagonal neighborhood in this 
game. The task “3 Red” has therefore not yet been completed.
Example 3 shows how two tasks can be completed at the same 
time on one tile: Each completed task is covered with a token from 
the personal stock. The higher the numerical value of a tile, the 
easier it is to complete the tasks on the tile. 
example 1
example 2
example 3
X

Example 4 shows a 7-tile whose three tasks can be completed with 
only 3 tiles.
In the ideal case, the tiles help each other to perform the tasks. 
Example 5 shows how two tiles do not need any more tiles at all 
to complete a task on each of them. In example 6, two more tiles 
help to also fulfill the task “2 Yellow” on both tiles. 
 
Important: Remember that the color of the origin tile itself nev-
er counts. In order to fulfill the task on the red 2-tile in example 
7, at least 4 additional red tiles are required. It is ideal if you 
manage to place two 2-tiles in such a display, as in example 7, 
because they support each other.
Important: The tasks are independent of each other (see also 
example 4)! Therefore, the four red tiles in example 8 fulfill both 
the task “2 Reds” and the task “4 Reds” of the blue 4-tile.
example 4
example 5
example 6
example 7
example 8

A solo game lasts about 15 minutes. All rules of the multiplayer 
game apply with the following exceptions:
Take the tokens of one color and form two stacks. One stack con-
sists of 8 tokens, the other of 13 tokens. There is no token on the 
moon track—it is not used in the solo game.
Place the Meeple above the golden marked field of the selection 
track (above the new moon).
As usual, fill the 11 free spaces of the selection track with 1 ran-
domly drawn tile each. Just like in the multi-player game, you may 
take 1 of the 3 next tiles after the Meeple (in clockwise order). 
Take one tile after the other—but without advancing the numeri-
cal value of the tile on the moon track. Your goal is to quickly place 
the 8 tokens of the small pile on the tiles of your choice. As soon 
as you succeed, add up all the numerical values on tiles in your 
display and note the value. Fill up the free tiles of the selection 
track again afterwards; tiles that you did not take remain where 
they are.
In the second phase of the game, try to place your remaining to-
kens on your tiles by taking additional tiles.
•	 In the first phase of the game, it is permissible to take and 
place more tiles even if you have already placed your 8 to-
kens. In the short term, this has the disadvantage that you 
increase your score. In the end, however, you increase your 
chance of really being able to place all your tokens, because 
you fill the selection track for the second phase with more 
tiles.
Also after the second phase, once you have placed all your tokens, 
add up the numerical values on the tiles in your display and note 
this value. The sum of the two numbers you wrote down is your 
overall result: the lower it is, the better. The game also ends, if you 
have taken all the tiles from the selection track.
Comments:
•	 Try to stay below 100 points. It is quite challenging to place all 
tokens. The reason for this is that you have to deal with the tiles 
that have been uncovered by chance.
•	 You cannot exchange tiles from the selection track! This is par-
ticularly tricky if a color is very rare or missing at all. Consider 
this a special challenge.
•	 In the first phase, if you have taken and laid out all 11 tiles 
that were initially placed, but have not been able to place 
all 8 tokens on them, note an additional 10 points for each 
token that is missing. Then fill up the game board and play 
phase 2 of the game.
•	 In the second phase, if you took all the tiles and laid them 
out, but could not place all 21 tokens, add 10 points for each 
token missing. After that, the game ends.
On our webpage, you can find and download a score sheet for 
your results: http://edition-spielwiese.berlin
THE SOLO GAME
Author’s note
The inspiration for this game was provided by Habitats from the Dutch publisher Cwali (published 2016). Unlike “NOVA LUNA“, 
the tiles in Corné van Moorsel’s game have a maximum of one task, and the number of points for completion varies depending 
on the difficulty level. Nova Luna contrasts the difficulties the tasks have with different “acquisition costs”. I express my grat-
itude for this inspiration by naming Corné van Moorsel as co-author and granting him the rights as such. My sincere thanks 
also go to Lukas Siegmon for the wonderful illustrations. Lars Frauenrath was responsible for the realisation. As a test player 
we would like to thank in particular Timon Rosenberg, Marei Zylka, Malte Frieg, and a lot of wonderful visitors at the Berlin 
Con 2019.