Nuclear War Game Rules
Overview
NUCLEAR WAR is a game for two to six players. Each player represents a major world power and attempts to gain 
world domination through the strategic use of propaganda techniques or nuclear weapons. A sound strategy, 
however, is not always a guarantee of success. As in the real world, the results of strategic decisions are not 
predictable and such factors as the chance dispersion of deadly radioactive fallout particles may significantly alter 
the course of events.
Detailed Instructions
Object of the Game
Each player seeks to gain world domination by eliminating the other major powers. This can be accomplished in 
two ways. The peaceful way is to persuade the population of opposing countries to join your superior form of 
government. The warlike way is to destroy the enemy population by using nuclear weapons. Population is the 
measure of success or failure in the game and you withdraw from the game if you lose your entire population.
Components
• Population Cards. There are twenty population cards in the game in the following five denominations: 1 
million, 2 million, 5 million, 10 million and 25 million.
• Nuclear War Cards. There are 100 cards, each being either a warhead, delivery system, propaganda, anti-
missile, secret or top secret card.
• Dice. There are two ten-sided dice to use when making an attack.
• Placements. Each player has a placemat which holds their cards in play. The placemat has locations for your 
face up card, first face down card, second face down card, two deterrent cards, and population cards. Don’t press 
the button on it!
Setting up the Game
1) A random player is selected to go first.
2) Starting population is determined by a random deal of the small population cards. Each player gets a set number 
of cards depending on how many people are playing the game:
3) The remaining population cards are placed in the bank in the center of the table.
4) The Nuclear War deck is then shuffled and nine cards are dealt to each player. The remaining cards are placed 
face down in the center of the table, forming the draw pile.
Opening Round
The first player begins by playing all secret and top secret cards in their hand. The cards are discarded after being 
2 Players
15 Cards
3 Players
10 Cards
4 Players
8 Cards
5 Players
7 Cards
6 Players
6 Cards

played and the player is immediately given replacement cards from the draw pile and proceeds to play any more 
secret or top secret cards that are drawn. This process continues until their nine-card hand contains no secret or top 
secret cards. The next player clockwise then does the same, and so on around the table.
Next, each player places two cards face down on the table in the spaces provided on the placemats. Since these cards 
are turned over on succeeding turns, the player is now committed to a specific strategy for the first two turns. 
Game Turn
Play starts with the first player and proceeds clockwise around the table. The turn order is as follows:
1) Draw Cards and Resolve Secrets
You are automatically given cards from the draw pile until your hand size totals ten (including cards on your 
placemat except those in the face up card location). The moment that you draw a secret or top secret card, you need 
to resolve it. Once it is resolved, you continue drawing until you reach ten cards without having any secrets or top 
secrets. At this time, the card in your first face down card location automatically moves to your face up location, 
with the card in the second face down location moving up to the first.
2) Modify Deterrents
If you’d like, you can move a card from your hand to one of the two deterrent locations on your placemat, or vice 
versa. These spaces are used to show all other players one or two cards in your hand – normally with a hope that 
they’ll serve as a deterrent against being attacked.
3) Place a Card
You must now place a card in the second face down card location. This card can come from your hand or from a 
deterrent location. Once you do this, you cannot modify your deterrent cards until your next turn.
4) Resolve Face Up Card
The card that was just moved into your face up card location is turned over and it is resolved. See the next section 
for card resolutions
5) End Turn
Play proceeds to the next player clockwise, unless someone intercepted a missile. If so, then the last person to 
intercept a missile during the turn becomes the next player (and play proceeds clockwise from them)
Card Resolutions
Follow these rules when your card is resolved on your turn:
Propaganda Card
As long as there is a state of peace (see below), this card is effective. You steal population from the enemy of your 
choice and the card is discarded. If there is a state of war, the card is discarded with no effect.
Delivery System (Missile or Bomber)
These cards are used to set up an attack on your next turn. The delivery system remains face up and is not discarded. 
If on the next turn you turn over a warhead card useable by that delivery system, then you are ready to attack. If the 
next card is not a usable warhead card, the delivery system is discarded. Each delivery system lists the maximum 
size warhead that it can carry; anything equal to or less than this number is useable.
Warhead
For a warhead card to be effective, it must be preceded on the turn before by a delivery system capable of carrying it. 
If it was, then you must launch an attack (see below). If not, the warhead is not launched and is discarded.
Anti-Missile Card
These cards are only effective in defending against an attack, if you have placed it on your placemat it is not useful 
and is simply discarded.
Attack!

When you launch a warhead you must choose a target for your attack. The target can intercept your warhead if they 
have and choose to play the appropriate anti-missile card. Each anti-missile card lists the delivery systems that it 
can shoot down. To keep you from knowing what cards are in their hand, they need to signify that they are not 
intercepting even if they have no anti-missile cards. If they do intercept, the attack is a failure. If not, then you roll 
on the nuclear fallout chart to see what happens. The warhead does the damage listed on the card, then modified by 
the chart.
If the delivery system was a missile, the missile and the warhead are discarded. If the delivery system was a bomber, 
check to see if the bomber’s payload is empty. The bomber can attack in multiple, successive turns until it has 
dropped warheads equal to its payload or until the next card turned up is either not a warhead or takes the payload 
over the limit – at which point the bomber and its warheads are discarded.
State of Peace and State of War
Once the target of a warhead is selected, a state of war exists. This is true even if the delivery system is subsequently 
shot down, explodes on launch, or is a dud. Peace is not restored until at least one player has been forced from the 
game through annihilation of their population.
When peace is restored, each player may alter their strategy by replacing one or two face down cards with cards 
from their hand. You may not replace a card that has already been turned face up, but the face up cards remain in 
play, in case you wish to continue with your previous strategy.
Final Retaliation
If you have been eliminated through the use of secret or top secret cards or by a warhead you have the privilege of 
immediate final retaliation before retiring from the game (you do not have this privilege if you were beaten 
peacefully with propaganda cards). You:
1) Combine each acceptable delivery system and warhead card that you possess (multiple warheads are fine on a 
bomber as long as you follow the payload limit)
2) Announce a target for each separate delivery system
3) After all targets are selected, roll for the attacks in the order that you announced them.
4) Discard any remaining cards. You can continue to watch the game and chat with the other players.
Note that you do get final retaliation if you draw a secret or top secret card that destroys the last of your own 
population. Also, if final retaliation wipes out another player, that player also gets final retaliation, so it is possible 
Roll
Result
Effect
00-04
Missile booster explodes on launch
If attack was anything other than a bomber, 
attacker takes damage
00-04
Bomber runs out of fuel
If attack was with a bomber, then all cards in the 
face up cards location of the attacker are discarded 
– no one is hit with a warhead
05-09
Dud warhead
Nothing happens
10-22
Bomb shelter saves 2 million
Target takes damage minus 2,000,000 
23-35
Additional 1 million engulfed in fireball
Target takes damage plus 1,000,000
36-49
No appreciable radiation fallout
Target takes damage
50-63
Radioactive fallout kills another 2 million
Target takes damage plus 2,000,000
64-76
Radioactive beta rays kills another 5 million
Target takes damage plus 5,000,000
77-89
Lethal doses of gamma rays kill another 10 million Target takes damage plus 10,000,000
90-94
Dirty Bomb! Double the Yield
Target takes damage times 2
95-99
Explodes a nuclear stockpile! Triple Yield!
Target takes damage times 3. If the attacking 
warhead is a 100 megaton variety, see Super 
Chain Reaction

to start a chain reaction that destroys all of the remaining players!
Victory
You win the game if you are the last player left and you still have at least 1 million of your own population 
remaining. Thus, there may not be a winner in the Nuclear War game…
Credits
• Copyright © 1965 by Douglas Malewicki
• Published by Flying Buffalo
• All rights reserved. No parts of this product may be reproduced without specific permission from the publisher.