Game 
Rules
“…to be sure, your sin will find you out.” 	
Numbers 32:23 
The novices are on the loose! Temptation has lured them out of their cells, and they hope not to 
be caught by the abbess and the prioress. But the guards are swift and their hearing is excellent, so 
it will take craftiness and a bit of luck in order to make it back to their beds without being caught! 
A Sneaky Game for 2-8 Players by Fréderic Moyersoen 
Game Time: about 45 Minutes for Ages 10 and Up
COMPONENTS
1 six-sided die
1 rulesbook
––––––––––––––––––––– 66 Cards–––––––––––––––––––––
	
6 novice status cards	
4 guard movement cards	
24 novice movement cards
	
8 secret wishes cards	
8 blessings cards	
16 guard path cards
	
16 noise / vanished	
captured &
	
tokens	
turn markers	
1 “line of sight” straight edge
the board
	
6 novice tokens	
2 guard figures
novice log sheets

 SET UP
Set the “noise / vanished” tokens next to the 
board. Place the U-shaped, turn marker on the 
“1” space of the turn track (at the upper right 
of the board). Place the “# novices captured” 
marker above the track.
Decide who will play the guards. 
If there are 7 or fewer players, one player 
controls both guard figures. If there are 
8 players, 2 players work as a team, 
each controlling one figure and its 
associated cards. Then set up the guards:
• Place both guard figures in the 
Abbess’s Cell (location 26).
• Draw and assign a Blessing card for each 
guard figure.
• Take the guard movement cards.
All the non-guard players are novices. 
Your novice receives:
• 1 random novice token. Start your novice 
token in her own cell (locations 1-6). 
• 1 Secret Wish card. Keep the information 
on this card hidden from other players. 
• 4 movement cards showing your novice 
(standing still, sneaking, walking, running) 
• 1 random Blessing card. Keep this card 
hidden from other players.
• Your novice status card, a novice log sheet, 
and a writing utensil (not provided). 
Place your status card on the “On the Run” 
side (not the “Caught” side).
Do not look at the unassigned Secret Wish 
and Blessing cards. Return them to the box.
BLESSINGS
Each novice and each guard receives a 
Blessing at the beginning of the game. If there 
is only one guard player, make sure that the 
two Blessing cards are assigned separately and 
used only by the assigned guard. A Blessing is 
a one-time advantage you may use during the 
game. Once you use it, place it back in the box, 
out of play.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each turn consists of 3 parts:
Novices move
• Note movement on logs
• Roll for making noises
 Guards move
• Move guard figures
• Remove tokens
• Roll for hearing noises
Move turn marker
 If no one has won before the end of the 15th 
turn, the guards win and the game ends. 
Important: At the beginning of the game, 
the novices get 2 movement phases. Both are 
part of the first turn of the game. Move the 
novices twice following the rules below, and 
then the guards may move for their 1st turn.
As we describe each turn type, refer to these 
boxes for “opposing player” information.
THE NOVICES
As a novice player, you have a Secret Wish 
card. This shows a set of keys and the locked 
location of the secret item. To win, you must 
first obtain 
the keys, 
then pick up 
your item, 
and then 
return to 
your cell. If 
you are the 
first to do 
this and you 
do so before 
the end of 
the 15th 
turn, you 
win the game!
As a novice player, your movement consists 
of 3 steps:
Note your movement on your log sheet 
(moving your token on the board if seen).
Reveal a movement card based upon the 
distance you moved.
Check for noises.
 Prioress Cards Abbess Cards
First you must 
visit dot 130 in 
the Chapel for 
key #5. 
Then, travel 
to dot 121 in 
the pharmacy 
to pick up the 
“medicine.” 
Finally, return 
to your cell 
without being 
caught!

If your status card has its “caught” side up, 
do not place Vanished tokens and do not roll 
the die for noises (you get a short reprieve 
from being caught!). In addition, if you end 
a turn out of the line of sight of the guards, 
return your token to your cell and flip your 
novice status card to the “on the run” side.
During the next turn, the normal novice 
movement rules apply.
 If you have already reached your Secret Wish 
location and then are captured, you must go 
there again and then return to your cell to win.
Example: Celeste starts in her room (4). She 
records her name and starting room on her 
log sheet (see below). 
• On her 1st turn she gets to move 
twice and decides to run— 
moving 10 dots to 88. On her 
log sheet, she records: ..............“88 – 10 r.”
• On her 2nd turn, she walks 
3 dots to 130 and stops 
to pick up her red keys, 
recording: ...........................“130 – 3 w K.” 
• On turn 3, she slows to sneak 
2 dots to 115, recording: .......“115 – 2 sn.”
• On turn 4, she runs 
5 dots to 126, recording: .........“126 – 5 r.”
• On turn 5, she runs 
5 dots to 121 and picks 
up her secret wish: ...........“121 – 5 r SW.”
• On turns 6 & 7, she runs: first....“70 – 5 r” 
and then .....................................“21 – 5 r.” 
• On turn 8, she walks 
into her room and wins: ... “4 – 4 w win.”
All this assumes a guard doesn’t stop her.
 1. Note Movement On Logs
Instead of moving your novice token on the 
board, you keep track of your movement by 
making notations on your log sheet. Each turn, 
you may move from 0 to 5 dots depending upon 
the movement card you chose (see page 4). 
Note the dot on which you end your movement 
and how many dots you moved. Also note the 
movement card you used (st = standing still, sn 
= sneaking, w = walking, r = running). 
During your first turn, you move twice (using 
the same movement card). All novice players 
do this step simultaneously.
Your first destination should be to retrieve 
your set of keys. You may only pick up the 
set that is noted on your Secret Wish card. 
In order to pick up your keys, you must end 
your movement for a turn on your keys’ 
location. (The number of dots that you move 
determines how you are moving; see below.)
Write a “K” on your log sheet next to the 
location when you pick up your keys. Once 
you have the keys, you may pass through any 
locked door (including other color keyholes, 
and of course into the locked room with your 
object in it). If you are ever captured, you may 
keep your keys.
Each time you move to a dot, check to see 
if you enter a guard’s line of sight (see “The 
Guard/Moving Guards on Paths”). If you are 
seen, move your novice token from your cell to 
that dot. As long as you are in a guard’s line of 
sight move your token in addition to keeping 
your log. If you move to a dot and leave the 
guards’ line of sight, place a Vanished token 
between the dot you were last seen at and the 
next dot in the direction you traveled.
Guards: You do not have to move in the 
direction of Noise or Vanished tokens. You may 
move in any direction while tokens (or a visible 
novice) are on the board. This enables you to try 
and cut off a novice or to go after another novice 
you suspect of being closer!
If you have reached your Secret Wish 
location, you must end your movement for the 
turn. Write an “SW” on your movement log 
next to the location to indicate that you have 
picked up your object.
If you are caught by the guard, you are 
required to walk (not run) in the direction of 
your cell by the most direct route, as long as 
you are visible to the guard. Flip your novice 
status card over to “caught” as a reminder. 

 2. Reveal Movement Cards
At this point, you reveal your movement card 
corresponding to the distance you moved this 
turn. Each of the other players simultaneously 
does the same. Your options are:
Standing Still — did not move 
(Noise roll modifier = -3)
Sneaking – moved 1 or 2 dots 
(Noise roll modifier = -2)
Walking – moved 3 or 4 dots 
(Noise roll modifier = -1)
Running – moved up to 5 dots 
(Noise roll modifier = 0) 
(, 
In general, the faster you move, the louder 
you are while you are moving, and the greater 
the chance that a guard will hear you. 
3. Roll For Making Noises
If either guard played her Walking card during 
the previous turn, you and the other novices 
must each roll the die (clockwise from the guard 
player). You apply the Noise roll modifier for the 
movement card you just played. The modfied 
result is the distance that walking guards can hear 
the noises your novice made. Count from dot to 
dot along any path and through doors. 
If a guard is in the roll’s range, you must place 
a noise token next to the guard figure in the 
direction of the shortest path from you to the 
guard. If there are two equal but separate paths 
that the noise can travel on, place 
a Noise token on either, or both, 
path(s). Even if there is already 
a Noise token adjacent to the 
guard, place another.
Example: The Abbess is at 
dot 23. Theresa walks, and 
ends her move at dot 72. Then 
she rolls a 6 and applies her 
-1 Noise roll modifier (for 
walking). This gives a result of 
5, and she is within 5 dots of 
the Abbess! Theresa places a 
noise token near the door next 
to 23, and hopes the Abbess 
stays in the Entry Hall…
 Theresa
 Abbess
Noise 
Token
THE GUARD
As the guard player, you control the Abbess 
and the Prioress (referred to collectively as 
the guards). You move around the convent, 
looking for and capturing novices who are out 
of their cells, sneaking around the convent. 
You win if you accumulate capture points 
equal to the number of players. You also win if 
no novice has won by the end of the 15th turn. 
With 8 players, the two guard players win or 
lose as a team!
Guard movement consists of 5 steps:
Move each guard along her “path” 
(looking for novices).
Reveal the applicable movement card for 
each guard.
Clear any noise or vanished tokens 
from the board.
Roll for noises.
Move the turn marker.
1. Moving Guards On Paths
As the guard player, you move your Abbess 
and the Prioress figures in pre-planned paths 
from dot to dot. Normally, if novices remain 
quiet and unspotted, you follow the colored 
paths on the board. However, you can leave 
those paths if you suspect (either by seeing or 
hearing) a novice is out of her cell!
Novices: Unless a guard sees you, your token 
stays in your cell on the board, even though you 
might be roaming around the convent! You will 
record your movement on your log sheet.
You start the game with a set of guard path 
cards. Each guard should always have one of 
these cards assigned to her (face up). Anytime 
you complete a path 
with a guard figure, 
discard the used 
path card. Then, 
from your remaining 
cards, choose 
another guard path 
card that shows 
the figure’s current 
location.
At the beginning of 
the game, you may 
choose from any of 
the 8 cards showing 
the Abbess’ Cell on 

Trees, columns, and statues do not block line 
of sight! If you have any questions, the guard 
player may only use the tile straight edge 
provided to show a line from the center of one 
circle to the target circle. If there is a wall in the 
way, the dot is not visible. The limit to vision is 
6 dots; if the shortest distance between a guard 
and a novice is greater than 6 dots, the novice 
cannot be seen.
There are some tricky line of sight areas on 
the board—primarily the Cloister, the Chapel, 
the Gardens, and the outside path. See page 8 
for tables detailing line of sight for these areas.
 Most room passages have doors (blocking 
sight), but several do not (10 to 11, 7 to 8 to 
9, 118 to 119).
 The Outer and 
Inner Gardens 
have four corners 
that can be used 
as blind spots. 
They also have 
some very long 
lines of sight that 
are blocked by 
the 6 dots limit. 
In addition, dot 
82 is actually 
up the tree! The 
only way to see 
someone at 82 is 
to be at dot 82.
In the Cloister, 
the columns do 
not block line 
of sight, but the 
wall around dot 
67 does. For 
example, dots 46, 
67 and 68 are blocked from 91 by that wall 
(see page 8).
On the outside path, the curve of the outer 
wall blocks some line of sights (see page 8).
it (location 26). Each guard has her own path, 
and each may start a new path independently 
of the other.
 Your guard figures are always at their actual 
location on the board. When you move, you 
move your figure along her route (in order for 
novices to determine if they are seen). Make 
sure your figure is facing front, in the direction 
of travel.
Each turn, each of your guards may either 
walk (advance 3 or 4 dots) or run (advance 5 or 
6 dots). Walking allows a guard to hear noises 
made by novices out of their cells. Running is 
useful for catching a seen or suspected novice, 
but a running guard can’t hear noises!
Some doors are marked with a lock symbol; 
these are locked doors. Each guard is equipped 
with a set of keys that provide her access to any 
door or passage. A door never blocks a guard’s 
movement.
Novices: Your first stop out of your cell should 
be to pick up a set of keys. Once you have these, 
you may enter any door as well.
As long as no one is detected, each of your 
guards will continue to follow the path on the 
card until she reaches her destination (the 
black hexagon dot at the end of the path). A 
guard will not change direction until her path 
is completed. If a path is completed in the 
middle of a movement, you may immediately 
select a new path that starts at your current 
location and continue moving.
Novices: There are two ways that a guard can 
divert from her paths to chase novices—either by 
seeing you (you are in her line of sight) or hearing 
you (if you are moving too fast, she will hear your 
footsteps). Some Blessing cards can create false 
noises—useful for diverting a guard from you (or 
causing a guard to see others)!
Line Of Sight
Each time a guard moves to a new dot (that 
is, every dot visited on a turn), each novice 
must check to see if she is spotted (i.e., in the 
guard’s “line of sight” as defined below). A 
guard that spots a novice may immediately 
move freely in order to catch the novice(s). 
“Line of sight” is defined as an 180º arc from 
the front of the guard figure (the figure always 
faces the direction of movement). This means 
that a guard can see everything in the same 
row that it is on, and all rows in front of it, 
unless a door or a solid wall blocks the view. 
	
She Can	
Can	
She Cannot 
	

 Within the 
Chapel, the 
columns do not 
block sight (e.g., 
112 is visible from 
105). However, the 
wall around the 
altar does block 
sight (e.g., 134 is 
not visible from 
114, and 150 is not 
visible to any dots 
other than 134 and 
135). In addition, 
the confessionals at 
103 and 107 are not visible to anyone unless 
they enter those specific dots (see page 8). 
 A guard will never look backwards as she 
moves. If there is a turn, she turns, looks along 
her new field of vision, and 
then proceeds in her new 
direction.
Example: Theresa is 
standing quietly at dot 122, 
with the Abbess walking 
down the hallway in front 
of her. Unfortunately for 
Theresa, the Abbess moves 
far enough to reach dot 
96 and turns to move to 
95. As the Abbess turns, 
Theresa is now visible, and 
places her token at 122. 
The Abbess now can use 
any remaining movement 
to go after Theresa!
Chasing Novices
There are three things that can cause a guard 
to leave their path:
She sees a novice.
She sees a Vanished token.
She has a Noise token next to 
her.
 For any of the above, a guard may 
immediately move from her pre-planned path 
in ANY direction (not necessarily the direction 
of the Noise/novice)! You may still move 
between 3 and 6 dots, and if you walk (3 or 
4 dots), you will still have the opportunity to 
listen for novices at the end of the turn. If only 
one guard heard the noise or saw a novice, 
only that guard may freely move; the other 
guard must continue to follow her path. 
If there are no more Noise 
tokens or visible novices at the 
beginning of a movement turn, 
the guard(s) will return to her/
their path(s) by the shortest 
route possible, and resume her/their path(s) in 
the same direction of travel as before.
Catching a Novice
If one of your guards moves to 
a dot containing a novice, the 
novice is captured, lectured, and 
sent back to her cell. The novice 
must move towards her cell, and loses her 
Secret Wish if she already has it (see page 3). 
You score 1 point and move the “# Novices 
Captured” marker (not the turn marker!) up 
one on the turn track. You may continue to 
move after capturing the novice. You can catch 
the same novice more than once during the 
game—you score a point each time you capture 
her. If you, the guards player(s), score points 
equal to the number of players, you win!
Novices: Being captured is bad: you will be 
forced to walk in the direction of your cell as 
long as you are visible to the guard, and you lose 
your Secret Wish. However, you get to keep your 
keys, if you have already picked them up.
2. Reveal Movement Cards
After both guards move, reveal the movement 
card for each guard. A guard cannot choose 
to move less than her speed dictates (e.g., a 
running guard could not move only 4 dots). 
3. Remove Tokens
Remove all noise or vanished tokens from 
the board. No token lasts longer than one turn 
(although the same novice may trigger another 
token immediately).
4. Roll For Hearing Noises
Each guard that played her “Walking” 
movement card during the current turn rolls a 
six-sided die. This is that guard’s base distance at 
which she can hear noises. She counts from dot 
to dot along any path and through doors. 
Each novice that is within this base distance 
applies her Noise roll modifier as shown on her 
movement card (see page 4). If the distance 
between the novice and the guard is less than or 
equal to the novice’s modified result, that novice 
must place a Noise token next to the guard figure 
in the direction of the shortest path from the 
Theresa
Abbess

VARIANTS
Agree before play begins if you want to use one or 
both of these variants!
When you choose “running,” you must move 
exactly 5 dots.
If an experienced guard player is up against 
inexperienced novice players, you can handicap 
the guard player by limiting the guards to a 
maximum movement of 5 dots.
DESIGNER NOTES
The guard must carefully alternate between 
running to cover ground, and walking in order to 
hear noises. Selecting the correct path (and, as you 
get close to an end, what your next path will be) are 
important decisions.
Players are on their honor to record their 
movement and follow the rules on line of sight and 
noises. The guards may also note their movements 
in order to later review the game in its entirety.
Novices must avoid taking too many risks (like 
running with a guard nearby)! Sometimes, 
standing still is the best policy, though don’t forget 
that the game ends on turn 15.
Novices should pay close attention to the guard 
paths. As long as no noises are heard, novice 
players can know exactly where and how far a 
guard will travel on a turn.
Similarly, the guard player(s) should pay attention 
to the movement cards of the novices, to give them 
a sense of how far they may have traveled (and 
what part of the convent they may be at).
Some locations (the gardens, chapel and cloister) 
are difficult for novices to cross unseen. Enter 
these areas with care (and speed)!
Standing still in a hideout may be the best course 
of action sometimes, but don’t forget that a high 
noise roll can then make it easy to be caught!
 CREDITS
Design: Fréderic Moyersoen 
Art: Jacob Chabot (box, cards, tiles), 
Jared Blando (map)
Development: 
Alex Yeager, Pete Fenlon, Coleman Charlton
Production: Pete Fenlon, Coleman Charlton
Playtesters: The gamers from the former Red Dragon, 
Repos du Guerrier, TSA, and Speltafel groups, 
Alexander Moyersoen, Su Pellitieri, Tom Pellitieri. 
And the Ann Arbor and Toledo Gaming Groups.
 Special Thanks: Peter Bromley, Robert T. Carty Jr., 
Dan Decker, Morgan Dontanville, Bill Fogarty, Nick 
Johnson, Ron Magin, John McBrady, Kim McBrady, 
Marty McDonnell, Jim Miles, Bridget Roznai, Larry 
Roznai, Loren Roznai, Guido Teuber, 
Bill Wordelmann, Elaine Wordelmann.
novice to the guard. If there are two separate 
paths of the same distance, place a Noise token 
on either, or both, path(s). If there is already a 
Noise token adjacent to the guard, place another. 
Each novice within range of a walking guard 
must place a Noise token (the guards hear many 
sounds!). A novice within range of both guards 
must place a Noise token for each guard.
Novices: You also roll for noises that you may 
make at the end of your movement. A high die 
roll is good for the guards and bad for you!
A Blessing may be 
played during the part of 
the turn that the action 
is applicable to. If you 
have a Blessing that 
changes the die roll, play 
that after the die roll 
you want to modify. The 
False Noise card allows 
the guard to divert from 
the path in the direction 
of the “noise” next turn!
Novices: If you have the “False Noise” Blessing, 
you may place the noise token down during this 
phase. If you do, do NOT reveal this card until 
this phase of the NEXT turn!
Move Turn Marker
Slide the turn marker down one step on 
the turn track. The current turn ends and it 
again becomes the novices’ turn to move. The 
game ends at the end of the 15th turn.
GAME END & WINNING
A NOVICE wins if she obtains her keys, 
obtains her Secret Wish, and returns to her cell 
with her object. The game ends immediately. 
If two or more novices win on the same turn, 
the novice who was caught the least number of 
times wins. If still a tie, the tied players share 
their victory!
Note: If you are caught while traveling from 
your Secret Wish location to your cell, you 
must revisit your Secret Wish location to win! 
The GUARDS win if they accumulate capture 
points greater than or equal to the number 
of players (e.g., 6 capture points in a 6-player 
game). They also win if no novice wins by the 
end of the 15th turn of the game. 

Copyright © 2010 Mayfair Games, Inc. 
“Nuns On The Run!” is a trademark of Mayfair 
Games, Inc. All rights reserved. 
✜ ✜ ✜
 You have purchased a game 
of the highest quality. However, 
if you find any components 
missing, please contact us for 
replacement pieces at: 
 custserv@mayfairgames.com.
Line of Sight for Chapel — × = blocked , ✓ = visible 
103 104 105 106 107 112 113 114 115 116 129 130 131 134 135
Dots 59, 60, 61, 77, 78, 79, 87, 88, 89 all have LOS to each other.
LOS for Outside
132 133 151 152 153 154
LOS for Gardens — × = blocked , ✓ = visible
12-15, 30-31, 33-35, 51-54 all have LOS to each other; 
except that 33 is blocked from 12-15 and 30-31.
Line of Sight for Cloister — × = blocked , ✓ = visible
Dots 37-41, 46-49, and 62-64 all have LOS to each other. 
Dots 73-76 and 90-94 all have LOS to each other.
SEQUENCE OF PLAY
Each turn consists of 3 parts:
Novices move
• Note movement on logs
• Roll for making noises
 Guards move
• Move guard figures
• Remove tokens
• Roll for hearing noises
Move turn marker
 If no one wins before the end of the 15th 
turn, the guards win and the game ends.