Goal of the Game
The night is cold and dark. It’s hard to see where you are or where you’ve been. 
“A road trip gone awry” is a charitable description of the world you and your 
friends find yourself trapped in. 
No one will ever believe you. This kind of stuff only happens in movies, Right?
Well, tell that to the man with the axe whose been stalking you. Tell that to 
your friend who had to dodge his blade, or maybe that was just a mage messing with 
your mind.
In Nyctophobia, you will attempt to outrun and outsmart an axe murderer or mage who 
is hunting you. Player’s must blindly navigate it, all while trying to find their 
car and get out of the forest alive. 
A team of up to 4 players will wear blackout glasses and try and take on the single 
player taking ont he role of the hunter. The Twist? Only the Hunter can see what’s 
going on around them. The Hunted players will have the navigate the board through 
touch and memory only!
Nyctophobia
Nyctophobia
T
h
e
 
H
u
n
t
e
d
a game by Catherine Stippell
Components
• 1 board (8x8 holes)
• 4 black-out glasses
• 4 player pieces 
• 1 Hunter piece
• ~40 removable trees
• 7 rock tokens
• 1 Hunter Wound token
• 9 health tokens
• 1 noise token
• 1 car token
• 6 character cards
• 4 character piece 
 reference cards
• 12 Mage action cards
• 12 Axe Murderer action 
 cards
(there may be more than the listed number of components)
Age 9+
3-5 Players
30-45 Min.

Role Terminology
Hunted: The group of 2-4 players who wear the blackout glasses and are attempting to 
find their lost car and escape.
Hunter: The one player who can see the board and is working against the Hunted to 
prevent them from escaping the forest. 
Set Up
Select one person to be the Hunter. That player will chose one of the two 
decks of cards (Axe Murderer or Mage) and play that role throughout the 
game. If this is your first game, the Axe Murderer is the suggested Hunter 
role. After being chosen, the Hunter secretly sets up the game board using 
either of the premade scenarios at the end of this book (pages 10 and 11) 
or their own imagination. Place the directional cards around the board in 
the correct order (N, E, S, W) and make sure all players are familiar with 
the 4 directions. 
Each Hunted player is 
given one (1) rock, two 
(2) health tokens, one 
(1)character piece and 
its matching reference 
card, character card, 
and a pair of blackout 
glasses. The first player 
is the person seated to 
the left of the Hunter 
and gameplay will begin 
with that player.
Hunted players must not 
watch the creation of the 
board. At this point the 
Hunted should place their 
blackout glasses on. At no point during the game may 
a Hunted player ever look at the board without their blackout glasses on. If you 
need to get up from the table, please alert the Hunter player so that they can ensure 
the board remains unseen. Seeing the board will harm the gameplay experience of all 
players. Hunted players should not try and peer around the glasses or attempt to see 
the board with their eyes at any point during the game. 
The Hunter will place all hunted pieces and car on 
the indicated spots on the chosen map per the set-up 
instructions for the maps at the back of the manual. 
The Hunter takes the Hunter Action deck and shuffles 
it, and draws two (2) cards. The Hunter needs to add 
Number of Players - 1 (minus one) rocks randomly 
around the board. The Hunter gives a one directional 
clue to the Hunted for the location of the car (North, South, East, 
or West).
Hunter
Cross
Hunted Player - Starting Gear
Rock
Health 
Tokens x2
Blackout Glasses
Character Card
Character 
Piece
Character Piece 
Reference Card

Directions
During the game, directional information is given. To 
ensure a constant stream of information, the board is 
described using the cardinal directions - North, South, 
East, and West. The players should reference these 
directions throughout gameplay when describing movement. 
Cards will be placed around the board as a reminder to the 
Hunter player which direction is which. If players have any 
questions or forget the orientation of the board, the Hunter 
should remind them by using clues about their surroundings 
(North is towards the kitchen, East is towards the door, etc.)
Hunted Communication
Communication is extremely important for a successful win. The Hunted are all 
scattered, lost in the dark forest. No one knows where they are or the path to 
the car. Communicate to devise a plan of action: who will search what portion 
of the board, or who will make noise to distract the Hunter away from your 
wounded teammate. Be sure to say which way you are moving, what you feel around 
you, why you are moving the way you are, the location of adjacent trees, the 
discovery of an edge of the board, any dead ends, or rocks on the board. Giving 
this information will benefit all the Hunted as they slowly put together an 
image of the board. Try and remember where you have been and work together to 
try and piece the map together.
If you are not communicating, you risk being lost to the forest and the 
Hunter forever.
Hunter Gameplay
The Hunter has a very special role to play in the game. You 
are working against the players, but you are also in charge of 
running the game and trying to make sure everyone is having 
a good time. So, getting into the character of the Hunter, 
taunting players and acting spooky is encouraged. It’s not 
every day you get to play a Hunter, so have fun with it. You 
can move around the table, make noises and try and scare the 
other players, but remember to respect other player’s personal 
space.
Also make sure to help any players who may be confused about 
the rules or directions. They can’t see the board, and are 
relying on you to help them. You may be hunting them in the 
game, but you want them to have a fair shot at playing.
Depending on how well the Hunted players are doing you may 
wish to give them a break (or taunt them) by making choices 
that allow the game to go on longer than normal, or put them 
out of their misery by finishing them off quickly. This is 
a different gameplay experience than normal, and choosing to 
play sub-optimally may lead to more fun for you and your group.

Objective
The Hunted are trying to work together to find the 
car which has been hidden in the forest maze. Once a 
player has found the car they will radio for help and 
all players will be rescued. Players will need to 
work together to help remember where they have been 
and where they have already searched for the car. 
Game End
The game is played over a series of rounds until the end 
condition is met. 
Hunted Win – The car is found and the call for help action is taken and all 
players survive through the end of the current round and one additional round of 
play (the game ending when the player who found the car finishes their next turn).
Hunter Wins – A player loses their last health token.
Turn Order
Starting with the first player seated to the Hunter’s left, each Hunted will take a 
turn, and play will rotate around the table clockwise. The Hunter will take turns 
between hunted players based on the following:
•	 In a 3 and 4 player game, the Hunter will take a turn only after ALL hunted 
player’s have had a turn. 
•	 In a 5-player game, the Hunter will take a turn after TWO hunted players have 
taken a turn. Turn order will be Hunted 1, Hunted 2, Hunter, Hunted 3, 
Hunted 4, Hunter.
The Hunted’s Turn
To begin a turn, the hunted should hold out their hand so the Hunter may guide 
their finger to their player piece (if the Hunter is ever confused about which 
piece belongs to which player, the pieces shape is printed on the character piece 
reference card of the player). 
Searching
The hunted must use their fingers to feel the board around their player piece one 
space in each direction. They may not feel diagonally, and any trees they run into 
block the player’s ability to feel beyond them. If they feel an item (rock, trees, 
another Hunted Player Piece, the Car, etc.) the Hunter player should announce what 
they have felt.

Movement
The active player must move two (2) spaces during the Hunted’s turn. Movement is 
only into directly adjacent, but not diagonal, spaces. Hunted players may not move 
through trees or through other Hunted player pieces. Rocks are automatically picked 
up upon entering the space containing the Rock. 
After the first (1) space of movement the Hunted player may feel free to search 
again before making the second movement and may feel free to search at the end of 
their movement.
If at any point during movement the Hunted player is directly adjacent to the Hunter 
piece, movement stops immediately and combat begins (see combat). 
Actions
The active Hunted player may optionally take one action before or after, but not 
during, movement.
Sprint: Move one (1) additional space. The Hunted player may *not* search after a 
Sprint action. 
Hide: Flip the active player piece face down. They cannot be affected by nor affect 
gameplay or enter combat. The hidden player is not allowed to speak to the other 
players. If the hidden player speaks while hiding, the Hunter announces that they 
are no longer hidden and the corresponding piece is flipped face up. The noise token 
is placed on the space of the player who spoke. 
At the start of a hidden player’s next turn, they immediately leave hiding, turning 
their player piece right side up. If they are adjacent to the Hunter when this 
happens, combat begins immediately (see combat).
Note: You may not hide AFTER the “Call for help” action has been taken by any player.
Note: Hiding may only be done AFTER movement.
Example - searching
You are able to feel 
that there is an 
open space to the 
north and west of 
you. To the east and 
south you may feel 
that there are trees. 
You 
can 
NOT 
feel 
diagonally nor the 
trees/open 
spaces 
beyond the adjacent 
spaces. Nor can you 
the player feel the 
spaces beyond the 
trees to the East 
and South.

Throw a Rock (must possess a rock token): The active player announces which 
direction they wish to throw the rock. Rocks travel in a straight line 
in one direction until something is hit (trees, the car, another player 
piece, the Hunter, or the edge of the board). The Hunter announces how 
many spaces the rock traveled and what it hit.
Place the rock and the noise token in that space. 
If the rock hits the Hunter, they retreat two (2) spaces away 
from the direction the rock was thrown. On their next turn, 
the Hunter may only move 1 space when instructed to move. 
Place the wound token on the Hunter piece to remind the player 
that they may move only one space. Special abilities listed on 
the Hunter card are still available to the Hunter player. Only 
the movement of the Hunter Piece is restricted to one (1) space.
If the rock hits another Hunted player, the hit player loses one (1) 
health. They may retreat (see combat rules) and Hide.
Call for Help: A special action to 
begin the end of the game. When a player is in the car they may take the “Call for 
Help” action to begin the end of the game. All players must survive through the end 
of the following turn for the player who initiated the “call for help”. (i.e. all 
players must take one additional turn)
Note: You may not hide after “Call for Help” has been taken by any player.
The Hunter’s Turn	
The Hunter player chooses one of the two cards in hand to resolve. After resolving, 
discard the used card and draw back up to two. If there are no cards to draw, shuffle 
the discard pile to form a new draw pile.
Many cards in the game have a “Noise” and “No Noise” action listed on them. The 
presence of a noise token on the board will dictate which you will use. 
Note: Some cards only have a single action which is used regardless if there is 
a noise token on the board (movement rules relating to noise still apply)
Some cards have a “verbal” section, which is a way to encourage the Hunted 
Player to role-play and interact with the players.
Hunter Movement
If there is a noise token on the board, The Hunter must move towards the noise 
token on the shortest path possible towards the noise. If there are multiple 
equidistant paths towards a noise token the Hunter may choose between them. If 
the Hunter player moves into the space containing the noise token, remove it 
from the board and continue movement following the movement rules as though 
there is no noise token.
Note: Some cards allow the Hunter to take special movement actions which may 
supersede this rule. Text on cards, always supersedes the rulebook.
Hunter Wound
Noise
Rocks
Example - Throwing A Rock
Molly announces she is throwing a rock 
to the West. The Hunter takes the active 
player’s rock piece and says, “The rock 
travels two spaces West then hits the 
end of the board.” The rock and the noise 
token are placed in that spot.

If the Hunter plays a card that tasks them with 
moving more spaces than needed to reach the closest 
player, the Hunter should move only as many spaces 
required to stop adjacent to the player piece. 
If there is no noise token on the board, The Hunter piece must move towards the 
nearest Hunted player piece. If there are multiple Hunted player pieces equidistant 
from the Hunter player piece, the Hunter player may choose between them.
Note: If there is ever a situation where movement rules are ambiguous or have 
multiple interpretations, the Hunter player should interpret the card to the 
advantage of the Hunted.
Combat
Combat occurs at any time that the Hunter player is orthogonally adjacent (non-diagonal) 
to a Hunted piece. 
Note: If an obstacle (tree, etc) is between the Hunter and Hunted piece combat 
does not occur.
1. The Injury: The Hunted loses 1 health and the direction of the Hunter relative to 
the Hunted player’s piece is announced.
2. The Counter Attack: The Hunted player may throw a rock as a counter-attack, 
if they have a rock available. When the player choses to counter-attack the 
Hunter player must move the Hunter piece two spaces away from the player piece. 
The Hunter takes the wound token. Hunter Movement will be reduced to 1 space 
next turn. The Hunter player still has access to the special abilities on the 
Hunter cards.
Anatomy of a Hunter Card
Example - Hunter Movement
Name of card.
Something that the Hunter says to the Hunted to 
encourage intereation and role-play.
Resolve the top portion of the card if there is no 
noise token on the board.
Resolve the bottom action if there is a noise token 
on the board.
You play “Bloodlust” and 
there is a noise token 
on the board.
You move 1 space toward 
the noise. You reach the 
noise token, so it is 
removed from the board.
You spend the remaining 
two 
movement 
moving 
toward the closest player. 
Combat then occurs.
Move the farthest Hunted 2 
spaces toward you. 
Move 2 spaces.
Taunt the player closest to you.
VERBAL
Move 2 Hunted 1 space closer to 
you. Move 2 spaces.
Hypnotize
Move 3 spaces.
Move 3 spaces towards a wounded 
or hidden player. Otherwise, 
move 2 spaces.
Tell 2 truths.
VERBAL
Bloodlust

3. The Retreat: The Hunted player retreats 1 or 2 spaces and may hide. The 
retreating player may search before and after each movement step in a retreat 
following the same rules as the normal “movement” action on page 4. As a free 
action, the Hunted player may choose to hide. Note: Hunted Players may hide as the 
result of combat, even after the car has been located by a Hunted player.
4. Reset: Remove the noise token from the board. The active player’s turn ends.
Special Combat Situation
Note: If you have played Nyctophobia: Vampire Encounter you will note that the rules 
for triggering combat are different between these versions. 
a) Retreat into a second Hunted player: If normal retreat rules would cause the 
Hunter to retreat into a space adjacent to another Hunted player piece, retreat as 
many spaces as possible without doing so.
Death
Once any Hunted has lost all their health tokens the game ends immediately.
The Car
The car is a special piece that consists of two adjacent spaces hidden on the board. 
The Hunter may not enter the car, but may attack those inside. Rocks can be thrown 
out of the car, but cannot be thrown into it. If a rock is thrown at the car, the 
rock token and the noise token are placed on the space adjacent to the car. Players 
inside the car will not be harmed by the thrown rock.
Example - Hunter Attack
COMBAT: It is Molly’s turn. To start, 
she unhides and is now adjacent to the 
Hunter. The Hunter announces that she has 
been attacked. She looses 1 of her health 
tokens. Luckily she still has 1 left. 
She does not have a rock 
to throw, so she retreats 
two spaces. She hides and 
ends her turn.

Game End
The game ends when either:
a) A player takes the call for help action in the car and all players survive one 
additional round (until the player who discovered the car completes their next 
turn). The Hunted were able to escape the Hunter and win the game.
OR
b) One Hunted player loses all their life. The Hunter gains enthusiasm. The Hunted 
lose hope and the game.
Game Variants
Simple Hunter
The Hunter Action cards are not used. The Hunter simply moves two (2) spaces. If 
there is a noise token, the Hunter moves toward it. If there is no sound, The Hunter 
moves toward the closest person. This makes the game easier to play for new players 
who may be less familiar with the game.
Character Roles
Forest Guide
Whenever searching, you can feel an extra space in each 
(non-diagonal) direction. 
Boxer
You do not need a rock to counter-attack.
When you hit the Hunter with a rock, they will retreat an extra space. 
Cheerleader
Instead of taking your action, another Hunted player may take an action on 
your turn. You must still take your mandatory movement.
Klutz
After leaving a space, you may place the noise token in the space you left. 
Track Star
When taking the sprint action or retreating, you may move an extra space.
Climber
Instead of mandatory movement action or a standard combat retreat action, 
you may hop over an adjacent tree. Noise is placed in the space you left. If 
the Climber attempts to do so, the Hunter should note that the space they 
are trying to move into is occupied, but should not tell them 
by whom (Hunter or Hunted). 
Note: The Climber cannot jump over a tree onto another player.
y
ad
a
A
p
action,
an ex
o
STOP! 
Hunters only 
beyond this point

Scenario One
It was just supposed to be a fun 
camping trip until this psycho 
showed up....
Scenario Two
I swear I left the car over 
here. Where are my friends? 
Why did we split up in the 
first place? And who is this 
psychopath anyways?
STOP! 
Hunters only 
beyond this point
Key
Tree
Hunted Start 
Position
Hunter Start 
Position
Add rocks 
equal to 
number of 
Hunted -1

Scenario Three
She walked up to our campsite and 
seemed normal enough. Then we 
all started seeing things. Trees 
aren’t just supposed to move like 
that... and all I can hear is 
her laugh.
Scenario Three
This doesn’t make sense. There 
wasn’t any fog a minute ago. 
The car was right in front of me. 
Where am I? Who am I?
Want more Scenarios?
Please visit: www.PandasaurusGames.com/nyctophobia-maps/
OR scan the QR code. Happy hunting.

Turn Order	
Player Turn
1) Search
2) 2 Movement (+ optional search)
3) May take one action before or after movement
	
a) Sprint
	
b) Hide
	
c) Throw a rock
Hunter Turn
1) Play 1 card from hand
2) Resolve card
	
a) Use the appropriate action on the card as indicated by the “Noise” or 
	
 “No Noise” icons.
	
b) If moving the Hunter
	
	
• Must move towards the noise token on the shortest path possible
	
	
• Must move towards the nearest Hunted player piece
	
	
• May never move into same space as The Familiar
3) Draw back up
Game Designer: Catherine Stippell (©playnyctophobia) 
Product Development: Nathan McNair (©Pandasaurusgame) / Molly Wardlaw
Game Development: Jon Gilmour (©JonGilmour)
Illustrations / Graphic Design: Peter Wocken (©peterwocken / www.BoardGame.design)
Rules Editing: Ian Zang (©IanZangDesign), Travis Hill (©travisdhill)
Tray Design: Noah Adleman (©GameTrayz)
Publisher: Pandasaurus Games (©Pandasaurusgame)
Special Thanks:
•Micheal Conway – My blind uncle. Without him, there 
 wouldn’t be Nyctophobia. (CS)
Playtesters: Kristine Stewart, Neil Sullivan, Karina 
Sinha, David Delrie, Brent Merkle, 
Michael Newhouse-bailey, Jamie Gilmour, Ian Moss, 
Julia Vasquez, Travis Magrum, Jim Schoch, Curtis Clark, 
Kelsey Clark, Jennifer Buehler, Tony Graham, Aiden 
Graham, Nicholas Rausch, Casey Allman, Megan Allman
www.PandasaurusGames.com
©2018 Pandasaurus Games.
All rights reserved.
Credits